,
,
ne :
> “5 we
dont
ow
=
) } bag
- } pin .
: CO.
- sp
wis s
a
} Can
\ some} ee
| ) Save,
~- or
vm een
e ae
vote
rc wre
Et
a anaeeeo
f P ee

eo) , ty rey
4 wee

~ pee

oa a ae

owe

’ “, ms

i K ‘
a) ie

sie ¥ ; ~, oot

£ 6 i ap) wat

4 \S » a 4
ry
' his

ra * dei
i

2 “
a ‘ ” zi : I ;
1 ‘ ;
\ a: a) = 2 ‘ ¥)
a Re ne : ns (
é F '
we *

a

_ SMITHSONIAN es i
— LUBRARIES |

eM repr ced piv wet Ny Bak Be Ag Ot
cps tat Vive try Woe os , wate Vat
wank u Wr Fi belle Mauston " saan
Hh alin 1 \ ADERUPCT ent
; ne ererigi
, aes ery
Ast s } nate eat
vy bebe: i 1, ny Win Ya Pi hameny Par he
vee ‘iow gate ERM tren yar Were! Agaric ee nant Ay fue Nw Madame
4 E Vain tea ea ma de 8m Revit
v ‘ saat 040m b os Le te ay
; on Veda htete
i jets! We nytt nd AML UE!
heastit rye goat acsnl a ochitags® Mam cbuitas 90
, kee RUT wo
; ae bee PRY TAT
TSE ; aye 2
it : Pera at ays Reet tame
: te ; fate nab es Nae! Mag ageitintts mS
pei t Mewfents dnd of ba 4s #00 81 8s me tg
ye Usain Lgag eS MANE NL

yaad akan te
Savage ire ed

vita
sews
LAV y std of
se ainiN

Ini Si dai ori a niasdens ne
We teagl > uh wee

Anew
Aimee hal arn ha

TAN ON

a j : ste TTA CE apd ing ad roby WINE AMG MN?P RIAL mind 4
| ‘ oo batAdafraad ates be iW AE 4 Mts nical oy hws lated wait ment HAs na YEN miteke
} ( ais oy vigindtes aya taMl iy ney Pepe ergaas vey
it ; dig useainltsang a i fy } aioe Mani
, i i | 1 VEUNPRTMTEL RN MWAGeams Maes cAdafoda die nade Meh rhvieda by)
: ny He ST teas iad ve AC igang AE td Afing VE BEML U wade a Tara ta deg gah gt oy
Wala haasa tie Nang oc etek Mandan nls tad : rf A oT Rateitlats O eees
bette es hot de, Peep eet} PATS diag we sks 968d ts a2 PONG A ot tome A tothe ym AC ae geThd

ee aaral arse Hag ave nd’ 1 be nelod BY
Pe Cat OA A TAVAR WIM ANgint Hoe We m SCA
eh ais Raed vend say adage
MANGA rade grace tL MST NSN
Saget

POLSCRUNCr ia
tint ate «

rash tiga oe tee
ares

Mode

hots

niyieae le
sen

; TIA at an se yeskgfing SARAIVA ning at nde Se ENS
I ‘ ‘ Peer hee as are »
it ad tata eee 4 U4
at {otra HOt: i ade t2 Ay
9 te wy “ \ WMefatasetete + ‘bid *

“yy ie Wem teed rag fi

‘ e Pe Mt re reiays nvz3 uy
Tava CPC enka Sry ins 8g bP er drt pion ork Ft

ARAN ae 9, wht

rere ene

iy ATs tase adAl of ed tg aM
; skh vue
' oe Haan 4 «
o Dine bevirinn i: Serveware
: i UN a aa it
Hon AS sa Pada Do siete Duh
j ‘ oa a Li oh se parolal 7 Meh otel ah Ael =
Bi0 Ban tee fe Pr hae hae ne ates
‘ i Dope arn es ie an
Patients’ Set
. eee aha oan a ce
, hae Ah ibis? Pre tata
A i : Pla Phony vena
net ee
et ih Vippabesag
GRUe Oa We AL 5 aoa
By Saute Tas EEN Ba Ture eo
Cae iis ih ah state ruts Coa ua BGG LPR ph aD)
/ rang pyidaye bpp eins F
Dat eeu ti rie FD aes UT) Wed i viteas enV Une ee) Opes Oe
a atte t eae te aes fanny
sabi ei iste 5 Cyey hale oR RA ge ANS)
a ht) De searat, Was ake / yaad ali Ta
Sgyecn ett Sept ih dka cd eh aneeage geuscian play eTtse at DPA OE oA 2a Plead ca sie ake
! ie i it artes pitatherdes vet
Ieiite : ite ins Di
ie Ait 5 peaeas prea e STON i ral
Ws Pua Hogiaga hey CN ate Put ee a ad Bde
, Tevet PADI e aed COLOR SLA Sat AEE Maar Naa
; hae COR PEM Uae ee wre ay WN ADAE IN DEON eal MaRhirgan a OS BE Mee AE TRY EP Eo ae pete ny
1 ; te Be, sil LP ernie R Chiphove anda ue DRI se ei
days i 5 Lfea uae ye UN ah OR ELD Presa apt Si ee ere
i 1 Pa at PUP TSC Oe 1d Caan Py vere
, i 9 aN Tighe, ony
i Cpe a rgb ate
isi yey ; Paya RTE Cae
eldeig F rays Tete yee de
Non7 phd ened ai
: ; tte Soran Cratas
iby ris as ares
’ ns ue rena
: re ‘ i, Pa Doane eK
} CL t Pein PERRIS
ih ite yaa as Pa gh aetis
: : Rane ye Pate renee CPR ety C1 ee ee Ee ee ee eT)
ret Hh i 7 gia hans PIT BW AN DAG PAE LP PONE sas
U LU PA ew aw Havel BPO e ae eee hpr ay at ne ee Un I eC
' Atal vee SE Ea AP TITIES 8 Waites cing dtreninsissa © 17) iarangeat
i cae Tn tt aS CE ee a
oe WA Ny fer bah) angen aD Ca
, Ose we ye PPP BP REEDS DIE BY Poca
TPL 0 ol Se BOO EN
[ TRC Fe aT at ea aS DO NANT Hp ee BPE TE POS 9 PSY
' ' oan SD OO EB TEP GE Ee a
: RAYS i" eee, GEERT RT DIE EE RIE
PAS ze ah UDG oe ERS HL Tp RSD TIGL FS EF IANO TAY IR ETRE aa
; ; Hg Hee ES NACA Re UT TLD TOY , TO ghia UF Ly elie jd ad etl dele
F ' ; PTD PB SEE LPENROD EE ASI PINES AS AGG PDA UE IE HORI EY aba prio y ae
its Tid Bh aes Hut y OVE DR RP TO are Re Ey Oe PIV wit ea hae
, ’ i PO PL apts vis Pa AGT PAID Hea at A40 OE DUASL RIE BT aed
oH a hin AEDS OUeSs ACL ALCTSS ETO TNE DANNY GS Pine a3 Yas UN ay pean GLNB TAT N IT pera n PNG das
, aI ‘ Pit sere Hey pois Ute e130 167 CAR TE De 0 ed 0
eer Dit yt eka gets SUNT AGL ON geal aN had HTN Rape DS yee VBS EE EEE GEE TS Tht
ry Das Pe Meyitet me 1 Nny Cater Cd enn ea NPUU AWE TRUE Visa TAG 5iu eaDC HAN AUMDSIODATUNFCO NED 6s J65t WALI TOT
. PLE tar ON UG) AW Le TSE DOF sh th AME AD FAN IT WEY DW TUN pW OR ee Pate rss
ay ai DMR PTET TUTTO cn rt Co ey A Diy ee NT ACORN AMM ED RDS
HPpetecd ISELIN RLY ATMA Ra AC tee A He ae I Nee Tae Lea

A ire NO SLL VON ats
PELNON UNIS HUPRE AEp Pee VES ANANSI p a al
Ves APPT yh iS ys LPM GRIM ALT SONS tae Lot
eT CER PURE AU DO DATS Ae TTAB FIT TN HE Rta PO Ga IAI a ae
hirtueaea cea intnes fa TAS Le er a a Se
Bee OH it nN aT RCO eI LIS Un SE CERO EE A
greasy Poa need Ne bio i Cay ore Oe AT Nady Pap eD Nid gern aw DEI ae
Se I Poe LN Nat ha Oa ally Vegan iy Lae a ayer Wo
Bal ey De ET cae aA LANTUS UN UNTO MPF ae te Be RYA NGAI Tepe bah per dees Peat
TT ET CRE Yee 1

OLE TNDTRUEE TLDS ISDA DCOE TVIRD MELANIN LOPE poate
EI TY DOT a AINA te LEE OTN Niaeee gs

Phe sa pbepseaei
dd Sve Nur eine an Pe
HSB ayer HUTTNE

VT OM a

; : , PE TT TOS AN
: TERT CRAG AR ELUNE DS ees pater es WNT a TES aT oR IARBE PANNE ‘
Hl tvs) ONTO MUNIN TTS TAURUS BD bUS I Wea a ae, Cntr earned
Te eae an DED TS MS Do ign ang) DOT TTT Ra Maen

Ob yaad 1) 8 wtih TSE VO HOT ON He
SUA AMI CAAA eR RL A) CIN OC AU Eh) Ree Tel
Fan yaueaerer ap Were iim vect anh Tita a WMres walls tun dept tay ete teiciinuneeits
eee MM DID Ada BE BANDA EM INAD CS OPED! Mba GM bey acaay Hie be

; PHU APT CRE ANT AAS
i UN Ka) TANDa Weer inetys UE OW PRIS RM VT Wray 2 ae
PEPIN EES LTS AM GUN EN EAE INS TAKE TEINS TUE LEYS Iho Py pO PLOA AM AUAN AUT UONU I AKO eA OOPS phe
‘ Wy Nesta LOMO DUTE Tre TOR IB ER OR UTOR OLA OUND i eee eet eueOnas

TRAY ‘iy i< re Ee, irs Sh) aha tp seat \e2 =a) | peas -
KO = SS Saw) < Ge S ayy = igs:
SO Nurs GG None 7% © “jb Oo Nowoc~y 2 Nae &
ITHSONIAN _INSTITUTION NOILNLILSNI_NVINOSHLIWS >°o4 1yYVvVua vies LIBRARI ES.
a ~
a = — rs) — fs)
Yy ow = oe) Y ‘a ow =
Gy: : a - :
Vz Vg oa Ee eS WR [res > —
VY fp ® re 2 XS - 2 -
Z 4 — W = NC v ep) ieee w
mn Zz 2 NS Zz A 2
wn = wo S n =
INOSHLIWS (S34 lyvyu9gi al B RARI Ea CNA SON aie
= aed = =. * z i, =
= Wy? x3 2 \< 5 Gy?
a Gs ae Ye SY = SS NG Lt” fi,
EM EONS SEN St ae
Z ae Fe é
ITHSONIAN _INSTITUTION 7p NOLLNLILSNI_NVINOSHLINS | Sa lYVvug 17 _ LIBRARI ES
ra i Zs a Zz eo
_ ow 2 As ~ “4 ae
‘ie < 2 VN < a <
Sj i 4 NO os = oc
=a a = Ysa = mo -
oo (@) SN ea
= ey Fas NS =a) = a
INOSHLINS S3ZIYVYEIT LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILALILSNI
> aad z ie Fa
AS fe) a 2 Pace =
oa 2 5 2 5
\SE = =: 2 E
SY. = = re = -
; cy) m m
|ITHSONIAN INSTITUTION | NOLNLIISNI_ NVINOSHLINS S23 luvuad Mt IBRARIES
Pas WN > = ch A Ae = a yy uf = WN Sy
aE: LY S z his EQ
QA 7 y te Cy LY f. = ‘ RN .
ENQX 2 YY = 7 a
= > = > =
7) . Fe 7) Zz ” *
INOSHLIWS LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN _INSTITUTION NOILNLILSNI
7p) > 7A) > Me =
Aa Oo oO 4 les ae me 5
NS oc = a “ip Wi = a =
WSS = iY YL = x 4
SY: z = UY } © =
® =| Y = =
= iS) = i fe) ea fs)
. at Ft ae) Z 4 Fa
MITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILALILSNI_NVINOSHLIWS _S 3 lYvudg a LIBRARI ES
a ~
Gy, : : 2 Ye 5 2 5
Vi fi". > res > ~ SK - > f=
Vl ae : 2 WHE 2 =
m Ls m AS m 2)
w me w ; = a) a
INOSHLIWS Sa IYvVYR!i7 = LI B RARI ES SMITHSONIAN SET SGD ee
= < 7 < z ‘Ss z 4: <
= z SQ 3 Zz & =) Wty, =
; g Ny : § WN 5 HZ3
Qiry ae ‘AINY oO rc (CANS oO Vi le, x
zy E Nv 2 FE NO 2.7 7° E£
> NS = = aes Pp =
Fa ” ; 2 no ee Fra ”n
ITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILALILSNI_NVINOSHLINS Saluvud1 LIBRARIES
= cp) ~ — ”
& = a a & =
Oia! ox — AN fa Ss oc
E : NE : :
5 0 5 S\S oO = mo.
z SF Fa ~~ = Fa a
INOSHLINS SSZIYVYE!IT LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILONLILSNI
. = — S = 5
NO © = — 20 &
ee - : 2 5
NE > e ss :
= ies -— —— =
yg mn Q mn 2
m, a ” —_ ” =
“MITHSONIAN NOILNLILSNI NVINOSHLINS S3IYVYEIT LIBRARIES
: : : g ae
< = x:
: 5 ot fy? S i fo = ae
De 0 GG ae Oo “yy ag \
= SYD «= 2 Wp ©

SMITHSONIAN

NVINOSHLINS

NOILALILSNI

NVINOSHLINS” S3INWVYGIT-LIBRA

. JS ays
4 ~ 4o Lt ~
Oo, S ee G )
“nist Oo fon DY

z=

INSTITUTION NOILNILILS

INSTITUTION

SMITHSONIAN

INSTITUTION NOILALILS

LIBRARIES

NVINOSHLINS S3IYVYEIT LIBRARI!

NVINOSHLIWNS S31YVudl)

‘ Fas
Se fe)
QS

SAA Ee

cg)

=
SMITHSONIAN

rs

<x

=

s)

w

ag

is

=

2)
NVINOSHLIWS

a ”

KN

RO <

[oe

WL. ps

ee
SMITHSONIAN

&

LY ies]

Gil, 2

Loi

; ; =

Yn

Ssaluvygl

INSTITUTION, NOILNLILS

NVINOSHLIWS

Sa1uYVYUEIT_ LIBRARI

NOILNLILSNI

INSTITUTION NOILALILS

INSTITUTION

NVINOSHLINS S3lu¥vugi7a_LIBRARI

NOILALILSNI

NVINOSHLIWS

“*

RAS
~
SMITHSONIAN

INSTITUTION NOILALILS

LIBRARIES

NVINOSHLINS SJIYVYEIT LIBRARI

ANOSHLINS S3IYVYUdIT

INSTITUTION

SMITHSONIAN

\ITHSONIAN

is

w

Ps)

>

a

Mm

22)

INSTITUTION Z NOILNALIL

N =
. Tr
w

e)

z

1 4G, HY aS = Ms

« “ey 5 Sans) °

jee) ‘yy Up Oo ONDE > es

SF Pas cal
NVINOSHLIWS SJ3/IYVvVudly

ee 3 -

ow — ow

=) Ya 5 ee)

> WE [e >

2 WY 2

m MWg m

= en)

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Lee) ae “

4 z WN

a

2 rt en NS

> = Ba NS

> mh >
NVINOSHLINS S3l1uvudly

NOILNLILSNI
SA
¢&
LIBRARIES

NOILNLILSNI

NVINOSHLIWS

oO =
4 s
Apr

LIBRARIE

NOILALILS

LIBRARIE

INSTITUTION NOILNLILS

INSTITUTION NOILNLILS

LIBRAR!

NOILALILS

Y Y Li
Yo fe

ro ie a
2 oO O°
= es =
e. = =
ii = FE
z ys z
NVINOSHLINS S31YVYGIT LIBRART!
< = a
ra = 2
Z B
= Za =
a 2 B
SMITHSONIAN

ep) > (ep)
tu ae.) a
me fed: Fay = ae
SGM? :
oc yi ow
= “ip 3
5 = 3
NVINOSHLINS S3!uvualq
= cS -
ies) : a= ies]
os) \s = ee)
> WS E >
20 WD lQAy 2 2
— S\S ae —_—
eet 32 O
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
w ra « (2)
z a z
4 Fas NN 4
r RNS

3 = AS 3
NVINOSHLINS S3I1YVYaIT

NOILNLILSNI
ti, fb
LIBRARIES

INSTITUTION
\
_S
Salyu¥vygl

4, Cc fay yes Sai te! oO} ee BAY SY << |o 3° Cc % Fe}
Wigy 5 at) < Sat) S SQ. = Gay 5 ea
ZY 5 Oo on pc v a ROMANS Oo \ eS er ay Oo Xoo oc o
ee ell a * a] Fal
JWNOSHLINS SJZIYVYSIT LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILOMLILSNI
: g 5 wy, 5 é
E = = Gy, es =
be > _ Lo f= ra
' 2 = OKs 2 :
eS m = m 2
— (op) — wn me
NOILNLILSNI NVINOSHLINS S31uvyYgIq LIBRARIES
z Z z a ae
2
= = BE, = = 7; >
S 2 G3 2 YG.% N
2 8 Ub? 8 OM 2S
= Zz by: oe 2 eg a
= eee. 5 = > = >
VINOSHLINS Saluvualy LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILNLILSNI
: = Ww =— (op)
WW rm my FA Ww
(oe 5 oc 4 = a
x < $3 <x
[ee 5 (ea = Oc
e 5 = 3 =
z = x vai ae
MITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILOLILSNI NVINOSHLINS S3IYVYGIT LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN
Ss z - 7a Ah
ergs = a = es
de db > = > | > >
WY, S E 2 re a
Vif! m 2 = n” m
wo = ra) . £ w
VINOSHLINS S4lYVYalT_ LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION | NOILALILSNI
= ee Ce < gs = ;
Ho rd 4 ~ WA 4 dh fh
EGY ERK: Ege EGF
2 = Zz i= » 2 “iy
> = ; > = > Ve
ra w” * Pd ” a = °
NOILNLILSNI NVINOSHLIWS LIBRARIES
Z a z ~ et Zz
Nan w
4 = a aN cS 4
7 : 2 = :
= o GRY = =
‘a S a S Wier $
> |
VINOSHLINS S3SIYVYUGIT LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILNLILSNI
: g = oe g
Ye 5 : 5 Fy: :
Ys ME 9 fs
we : © ELE > F
WY 2 Be Me 5
MITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILALILSNI_ NVINOSHLINS SaluVuaIT LIBRARIES
a “€ (op) a
<x = <x = <x
= \, = 4 % = = Ws, z
xr SSS P Ml, e) ii; = SW SA
= mS \S 2, Ff vd = = % Vi f e " .\S
ae es 3 2 aN
VINOSHLINS Saluvualy LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILNLILSNI
— — Ww
lw + ty = Ww
oc = = 2S cc
. at <x
oc ar a ez oc
nad ro) a rs) =
= Fe er = ay :
MITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILOLILSNI NVINOSHLINS S3IYVYEIT LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN
i z - = cS
ee) = w ° w
wa 5 Po) = ys)
> i= > * = >
es E ai = a
mn zZ m 2 m
VINOSHLIWS SAIYWY AIT LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION | NOLLOLILSNI
“ee = ve
= _ ae = x z
= = AS = 2 =
Sr, e) WN: . ae Oo at:
Z ZR 8 2 d
2 E MW 2 = gS
> = > — ==

AITHSONIAN

ZINOSHLIWS

NOILNLILSNI

LIBRARI

INSTITUTION NOILALILS

INSTITUTION

AITHSONIAN

NVINOSHLINS SAIYWVYa!IT LIBRARI
The National Museum of Natural History

OH Ellis L. Yochelson

U62W279
1985X

75 Years in the Natural H istory Building

The National Museum of Natural History

— “ir ined PR ae 2 LR

Ab er

75 Years in the Natural History Building

The National Museum of Natural History

Published on the occasion of the Diamond Jubilee of the Natural History Building (1910-1985)

for the National Museum of Natural History, Smithsonian Institution, by the Smithsonian Institution Press

City of Washington, 1985

75 Years in the Natural History Building

Ellis L. Yochelson, U.S. Geological Survey Edited by Mary Jarrett

FRONT COVER: Looking north from the Mall at 11:01 A.M.
May 11, 1909, just after the last stone was set on the south porch
of the Natural History Building.

BACK COVER: 1920 view of east court and dome looking

northwest.

HALF-TITLE PAGE: Sketch of building showing three main wings
and smaller ranges, enclosing the courts. The exhibits were
assigned essentially as suggested here, but the grounds when
completed were far less elaborate.

TIPLe PAGE: Setting the last stone on the south porch at 11:00
A.M. May 11, 1909. This completed the heavy construction on the

new building.

PART LT OPENER: Dome and south porch of the new National
Museum still under construction. About six months later, in the
summer of 1910, the collections started being moved across the

Mall.

PART 2 OPENER: The Féenykovi elephant Loxodontus on its
opening night, May 6, 1959.
PART 3 OPENER: The Natural History Building today, looking

west along the Mall and Constitution Avenue. Photo by J. Tinsley,
July 1985.

© 1985 by Smithsonian Institution. All rights reserved
Printed in the United States of America

Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data
Yochelson, Ellis Leon, 1928-

The National Museum of Natural History: 75 years in
the Natural History Building.

Bibliography: p.

Supt. of Docs. no.: SI 3.2:N21/2

1. Nauonal Museum of Natural History—History.
I. Jarrett, Mary. II. Title.
QH70.U62W279 1985 507’.4°0153 85-600180
ISBN 87474-989-1

(eo) Phe paper in this book meets the guidelines for permanence
— and durability of the Committee on Production Guidelines

for Book Longevity of the Council and Library Resources.

Book design by Christopher Jones
Contents

GTC WOU per tee eerecn etait eines sie tees Peneeae ersten Saas 6

Pi RAGE mentee ree eee menor tence  ecahan eens SPP ena noma ee tes 8

CMT OOO Ry Geer, scat oe tate sitaoes ste pre atcaawannusten tacad ci gsatradtiSeas: )

Part One: The Structure
Chapter 1 The United States National Museum............0.0.cee eee 15
Chapter? “Whe New Butlin iisi.tes aiiictes caverande toa tacteintsnon age aac taeamhunisines 23
Chapter h.> tunilclime attire BiG eer siseasesaartt nsec sialon deh atdes'seadestiseeaaees once 29
Chapier, = “Movie into: Valllnallav ics cdsce-scosuateasuaizeainaanitaiece dane cuca 35
Ghapier >) ‘the NationalsGallery of AVG sii.) sisi niiisie ited: 4]
Chapicn6 " -AtiiliateduO re ani Zan Os oie vcasscetec.casces Sashes Aessnaens saevestactevaiesente 47
Part Two: The Exhibits
Chapier 7. iNew Aoxhibits, New, OF NCES ic. te ance S catch narae seeded 57
Chapter 8 ‘The Great War and Its Lingering Aftermath..........000....0.. 65
Ghapien 92 CVINGen Me BIA ie, or oeease waacascanacuett ttdaninacessieorssaataage macsnasteettensatenset aA
Cia piers OO NNO CEN at Ne eee, serne a ete ae eres acing ens seen Sct ata SSS eo nee 79
Chapter 11 New Faces, New Funds, New Exhibits .............0ccccceeeeeeees 85
Chapter 12 lew Wings and: a New Hlepham 2. .c.ciec.ce.t)erstessevesazenccseoe 99
Chapierd > Bis science: -Deep Space, Deep Waters -cccscc:sacsceseceess ahs tae ‘bef
Chapter ta “Moderine Wms ss isesca (8c. is oa etontxpneieieg ler Siakway Vivseessusarcigay sales
Part Three: The Museum

Ghapicn > “Museum -ACimim Sina OM; racncasrssssesdaniedacetcscanveteensantauearava rns 129
Chapicelo” VIG SCleIMINe Stalls aaa, eaeere 2 .27-hecasissaeye cere teeianesaciers ietsanta 137
Chapicr die, Siiared PaAciiaes ics. c5. cert. cca 7. candies tec sed eases asee aS 147
Chapter JS™ Shops and’ Maintenance x .25..2cosehee eset edenssncainns sagansnngacenrcasavesen 159
Chapter 9.“ Orblersemctine BUM 52 rs naiece ace vondsrer dost hiiserceaonanncsee dies: 165
Chapter 20> WOE: Y 1SitOTs . ticasrasrtoasacisepacapseonnsnersessenncsenevinswesmisiysaerontswts sess 7
Giapien 2. (Publics PlACes jin secstere-seecsasnctaveaunine sear rasehansnePinga ses coieimeden vers 179
Ghopter 22. Outside Chic Bil anne: erecta crtoce cs sessccsee eee sees csactee ease 19]
Chavier 23> Mine GOUCCtOIMS:. 2. aisgsesassde eres sstcs songns vss serens guscas a1 iSesa es gees ens 199

ISSO te apt Mee ee PTT OE PO DPT ae ree 207

Imdex:or Persomals Nammesis-cs.c2-ccea1scs cess eesneca se soere tie aesenaroes 214

Sources Of [llustiratiOms scscccececcceecsceeccsccescnscecevcatecseovessecasesesess 216
Foreword

his year we are celebrating the Diamond Jubilee
of the Natural History Building, which first opened
its doors to the public on March 17, 1910. The new
building represented a major advance for the Smith-
sonian Institution, vastly expanding its space and op-
portunities for collection storage, exhibition, and re-

search, and it ushered in a whole new era in the life of

our already well-established museum, known today as
the National Museum of Natural History (NMNH).
During the past seventy-five years, the Natural History
Building, familiarly called the “NHB” by its residents,
has undergone many changes to keep pace with the
growth of its activities, which have expanded and changed
constantly to stay abreast of the extraordinary advances
in science and the ever-expanding need for public dis-
plays and activities. Phus the building and its lite have
been inextricably bound to each other through the years.
Over these seventy-five years we have seen upwards of
150 million visitors come through our doors, 50 million
in the last ten years alone, and we expect more than
six million in 1985. Our collections for research and
display now number about 100 million.

The idea for this book first took shape in a chance
conversation that I had with the author, Dr. Ellis L.
Yochelson, at our Museum’s Christmas Party in De-
cember 1983. While discussing ways to celebrate the
seventy-fifth anniversary of the NHB in 1985, Ellis,

who has always had a keen interest in and sense of

history, suggested that a book be written on the history
of the building since 1910. I immediately seized on the
suggestion, and a project was born—with Ellis himself
as author. As a long-time resident of the building who
not only knew much of the history himself but also was
a scientific colleague and personal friend of several of
the NHB’s oldest citizens, Ellis was an ideal choice.
Furthermore, as a member of the resident paleonto-
logical staff of the Geological Survey of the United
States Department of the Interior, one of the longest-
running scientific affiliates with the NMNH, he could
bring a unique perspective to bear on the history of
the building. Although always a loyal advocate of the
Museum, he could take a more detached view than one
of our own staff, and at the same time he understood
implicitly the symbiotic relationships that have always
characterized the associations between the scientists of
the NMNH and of the several affiliated agencies that
have long had research units in the building.

We all are enormously indebted to Ellis Yochelson
for the Herculean job that he did in writing this book
within virtually impossible deadlines. From the outset,
he wisely decided that he could not bring the building
to life without telling the story of the people who worked
here and of the activities and events that have punc-
tuated the history of the building. It is, therefore, much
more than a history of the building: it is a history of
the Museum.
Dr. Yochelson has given us a charming book, full of

fascinating anecdotes and his own dry wit. He would
be the first to point out that it is written from his own
perspective as a personal chronicle. He was not asked
to write an official history, and the book should not be
read on that assumption. Many, but by no means all,
of the guiding figures in the Museum’s history appear
in these pages, and the author does not pretend to
emphasize each in proportion to his or her importance.
It was never our intention that the book would incor-
porate all employees past or present, and Ellis has had
complete freedom to emphasize personalities as he saw
fit. In a companion volume to this book, the pictorial
Directory published in March 1985, all present NNUNH
staff and associated employees—about 1,250—are fea-
tured.

I am indebted to many persons for their help in
making this book possible, including some, no doubt,
of whom I am unaware. Certain persons deserve special
mention. Without the full cooperation of Richard Z.
Poore, Chief of the Geological Survey’s Branch of Pa-
leontology and Stratigraphy, this book never could have
been written by Dr. Yochelson, a U.S.G.S. employee
under his charge. Many present staff members re-
viewed all or parts of the manuscript. I am grateful to
the departmental chairmen for soliciting these reviews.
The chairmen at the time were: Robert F. Fudali (Min-
eral Sciences), W. Ronald Heyer (Vertebrate Zoology),

Foreword

Leshe W. Knapp (Smithsonian Oceanographic Sorting
Center), Mark M. Littler (Botany), lan G. Macintyre
(Paleobiology), Wayne N. Mathis (Entomology), Clyde
F. E. Roper (Invertebrate Zoology), and Douglas H.
Ubelaker (Anthropology). Especially detailed and thor-
ough reviews were prepared by Frederick M. Bayer,
Fenner A. Chace, Jr., Joseph Ewan, Pamela M. Henson,
Karl V. Krombein, Curtis W. Sabrosky, and Victor G.
Springer. Essential technical work in the preparation
of the final copy was performed by Anne Curtis, Bar-
bara Gautier, IT’. Gary Gautier, Ella Giesey, Carole Lee
Kin, and Joan B. Miles. Patricia Geeson, Victor E. Krantz,
and James H. Wallace, Jr., rendered indispensable help
in the process of gathering pictures for the book. Ann
Rossilli designed the Diamond Jubilee logo.

Finally, I am especially indebted to Stanwyn G. She-
tler, Assistant Director for Programs, for reviewing the
entire manuscript in detail and guiding the book through
the many stages of editing to publication on my behalf;
to Mary Jarrett, for her painstaking and exemplary
final editing of the book; to Hope G. Pantell of the
Smithsonian Institution Press, for her vital editorial
guidance during production; and to Christopher Jones,
for his pleasing design of the book.

RICHARD S. FISKE, Director
National Museum of Natural History
Smithsonian Institution

July 1985

~I
Preface

LD-TIME TOUR GUIDES IN WASHINGTON used to

like to say, “On the north side of the Mall, opposite
the Smithsonian Castle, the large granite building with
the green dome on top is the United States National
Mausoleum.” In a way the building did look like an
oversize cemetery monument, and it does contain many
dead objects, but there is nothing funereal about the
place. Since March 17, 1910, when the public was first
invited to see the inside of a not-yet-completed building,
people have been enjoying, more or less continuously,
this national museum and its exhibits.

Over the years a variety of names have been applied
to the structure. “Phe United States National Museum,”
“the New National Museum,” “the National Museum
of Natural History,” and “the Natural History Build-
ing” have much in common, yet each is a shade dif-
ferent, indicating a stage in the development of the
nation’s museums. The building itself has changed
through time. It has housed trivial and significant ob-
jects, uninspired and fascinating exhibits, and, always,
dedicated people. I have tried to write a little about all
these subjects—that is, about space and time and some
of the people who occupied both dimensions. — ,

One seldom finds an opportunity to use the word
“concatenation.” But had the United States Geological
Survey not hired me in 1952 to work at the Natural
History Building of the United States National Mu-
seum, and had I not been involved with the Geological
Survey centennial in 1979, and had I not met National
Museum of Natural History director Richard Fiske at
the Invertebrate Zoology Christmas party in 1983, and
had the present Chief Geologist, Robert Hamilton, not
worked with Fiske when both were on the Geological
Survey, I would never have heard of the anniversary
of the Museum building, nor would I have been given
the time to write about its history. When it became
evident that the tme allotted was not going to be enough,

my branch chief, Richard Z. Poore, permitted me to
maintain the Geological Survey tradition of meeting a
commitment.

William Massa, with the aid of his colleagues in the
Smithsonian Archives, invariably brought me the pa-
pers or photographs I requested, and then searched
around on his own to find the items he knew I really
needed. Without the help of Victor Kranz and, through
him, a whole host of people in photographic services
throughout the Institution, there would be no illustra-
tions.

Because the Museum has no central photographic
archive, tracking down negatives and identifications for
old pictures posed special problems. Prints for which
negatives could not be found were copied, but some of
them, of course, may have been derived from even
earlier copies. Photo negative numbers are given at the
end of the book.

Almost none of the Smithsonian’s photographs are
capuoned, and before 1975 scarcely any bore a date.
If the information given for a picture seems vague or
incomplete, it is because no further data were available.

Honesty forces me to say that I enjoy talking. In past
years I have had the privilege of speaking with Sec-
retaries Abbot, Wetmore, Carmichael, and other fine
gentlemen and ladies no longer present. During a six-
month period, I conversed with about a quarter of the
people currently on the staff of the Museum and its
affiliated agencies in an attempt to determine how the
Museum has run and is running. It was far more stim-
ulating and informative than reading eighty-five years’
worth of annual reports. In particular I owe a major
debt to Ed Henderson and to “Coop” for advice and
recollections, and for first paying attention to me in
1944. If I did not get it right after all this assistance,
the fault lies with me.
Date
May 13, 1878

May 17, 1878
1879

1881

August 19, 1887

November 18, 1887

September 6, 1896
January 27, 1897

July 1, 1897

July 1898

January 30, 1903
June 15, 1904
February 22, 1906
January 23, 1907
August 11, 1909
October 15, 1909
March 17, 1910
June 1, 1910
June, 1911
June 20; 1911
October 8, 1911
October, 1917
July 16, 1918

November 1, 1918
April, 1919

July 1, 1920
April 1, 1925

Chronology

Event

Joseph Henry, first Secretary of Smithsonian Institution,
dies.

Spencer Fullerton Baird appointed second Secretary.

Name “United States National Museum” first used by
Congress.

National Museum (Arts and Industries) building opens
after use for Cleveland Inaugural Ball.

Secretary Baird dies.
Samuel Pierpont Langley appointed third Secretary.
Assistant Secretary George Brown Goode dies.

Charles Doolittle Walcott appointed Acting Assistant
Secretary in charge of U.S. National Museum.

National Museum organized into three departments:
Anthropology, W. H. Holmes, head; Biology, F. W.
True, head; and Geology, G. P. Merrill, head.

Richard Rathbun appointed Assistant Secretary in charge
of U.S. National Museum.

Funds for new building appropriated by Congress.
Ground broken for New National Museum.
Secretary Langley dies.

Charles Doolittle Walcott appointed fourth Secretary.
Staff begins to move collections into new building.
Heating boilers fired.

New National Museum opened to public.

Holmes again appointed head of Anthropology.
Leonhard Stejneger appointed second head of Biology.
Building formally completed.

Sunday-afternoon visiting hours begin.

Bureau of War Risk Insurance moves into building.

Building closed for use by Bureau of War Risk
Insurance. Richard Rathbun dies.

W. de C. Ravenel appointed assistant to the Secretary, in
charge of U.S. National Museum.

Building reopened to public.
National Gallery of Art formed, with Holmes as director.
Alexander Wetmore appointed Assistant Secretary.

9
10

February 9, 1927
Fall 1927
January 10, 1928
1929

October 29, 1929
June 19,1930
1930

April 1931

June 30, 1934
1940

December 7, 1941
June 30, 1944
January 12, 1945
October 23; 1946
July 31, 1947

May 26, 1948

1949 (2)
December 1952
January 2, 1953
Fall 1955

July 1, 1957

February 4, 1958

August 1958
May 13, 1960
January 1962
1960

1963

July 1, 1963
October 15, 1963
January 31, 1964

February 1, 1964
February 1, 1965

July 1, 1965
July 1.1965

Summer 1965

September 16-19, 1965

March 1966

March 24, 1969

Secretary Walcott dies.

Rotunda closed.

Charles Greeley Abbot appointed fifth Secretary.
Decking put in east range, ground floor.

Rotunda reopened.

Wings authorized by Congress.

War Collection moved to Arts and Industries.
Decking of west range and west north range begins.
Heating and electrical plants cease operations.
Conversion to alternating current begins.

America enters World War II.

Secretary Abbot retires.

Alexander Wetmore appointed sixth Secretary.
100th anniversary of Smithsonian Institution noted.

Department of Biology divided into departments of
Botany and Zoology.

A. Remington Kellogg appointed Director, U.S. National
Museum.

Ice plant ceases operation.

Secretary Wetmore retires.

Leonard Carmichael appointed seventh Secretary.
Junior League begins docent tours in Museum.

U.S. National Museum divided into Museum of History
and ‘Technology and Museum of Natural History.

A. Remington Kellogg appointed Assistant Secretary.

A. C. Smith appointed Director, Museum of Natural
History.

Funds for east wing construction appropriated by
Congress.

T. Dale Stewart appointed Director, Museum of Natural
History.

Construction begins on east wing.

Construction begins on west wing.

Department of Entomology formed from Division of
Entomology.

Department of Geology divided into departments of
Paleobiology and Mineral Sciences.

Secretary Carmichael retires.
S. Dillon Ripley appointed eighth Secretary.

Bureau of American Ethnology and Department of
Anthropology merge to form Smithsonian Office of
Anthropology.

Smithsonian Office of Ecology formed.

Department of Zoology divided into departments of
Invertebrate and Vertebrate Zoology.

Department of Botany moved to Museum from Castle.
200th anniversary of birth of James Smithson celebrated.
Richard S. Cowan appointed Director, Museum of
Natural History.

Official name becomes National Museum of Natural
History.
Chronology

September 26, 1971
November 16, 1971
January 15, 1973

1973

September 16, 1973
December 17, 1973
March 5, 1974
1975

1975

October 1975
August (?) 1975
July 1976

1976
December 1976
Fall 1978

May 30, 1979

December 7, 1979
January 1980

August 1980

February 9, 1981
March 1981

July 15, 1981
May 16, 1983
September 17, 1984

July 10, 1985

125th anniversary of Smithsonian Institution.

Baird Auditorium dedicated.

Porter M. Kier appointed Director, National Museum of

Natural History.

“Rearticulation” returns building management, exhibits,
and educational activities to directorship of Museum.
Former Secretary Carmichael dies.

Former Secretary Abbot dies.

Discovery Room opens.

Smithsonian Oceanographic Sorting Center becomes part

of Museum.

Office of Anthropology abolished; Department re-
established.

Escalator installed in foyer.

Osteo-Preparation Laboratory built in east courtyard.
West Court building completed.

Greenhouse built in east courtyard.

Naturalist Center opens in West Court building.
Inventory program begins in Museum.

Kier leaves directorship; James F. Mello appointed
Acting Director.

Former Secretary Wetmore dies.

Richard C. Fiske appointed Director, National Museum
of Natural History.

Constitution Avenue entrance modified for physically
handicapped.,

Work begins on Museum Support Center.

Link Port facility, in Fort Pierce, Florida, becomes part
of National Museum of Natural History.

Evans Gallery opens in foyer.

Museum Support Center dedicated.

Secretary Ripley retires; Robert McCormick Adams takes

office as ninth Secretary.
Fiske leaves directorship; James C. Tyler appointed
Acting Director.
Part One

The
Structure

o

Ss

eee eN NENTS comin)

_ az — ee

|

Chapter I

United States
National Museum

LTHOUGH THE STORY OF THE SMITHSONIAN has

been told many times, it is a good story that de-
serves retelling from a slightly different angle. In brief,
the Institution was created by an Act of Congress in
1846 to execute the will of the English chemist and
mineralogist James Smithson, who had bequeathed his
entire fortune to the United States “to found at Wash-
ington ... an establishment for the increase and dif-
fusion of knowledge among men.” Although Congress
had settled on science, art, and history as the areas of
knowledge to be pursued, the outline was a vague one.
The Institution’s first Secretary, Joseph Henry, wanted
to support research and publications, but not to have
the Institution actively involved in gathering collections
or developing a public museum. The Board of Regents
did insist upon an impressive Smithsonian building,
and in 1847 construction began on “the Castle,” located
on the south side of the Mall with its main entrance
centered on Tenth Street.

Three years later, the overworked Henry hired young
and energetic Spencer F. Baird as his assistant. In Baird,
natural history found a powerful advocate. He was a
prodigious collector as well as a master at persuading
others to collect for him. Historians argue as to whether
Henry’s original objections to a museum were swayed
by the force of Baird’s arguments or by the weight of
his collections.

There was no formal founding of the United States
National Museum, but in 1858 large government-owned
collections from the moribund National Institute were
transferred to the Castle from the Patent Office build-
ing (now the National Portrait Gallery and National
Museum of American Art). One of Henry’s concerns
was guarding the Smithsonian endowment; he was aware

Installing totem poles in the United States National
Museum (now the Arts and Industries Building), possibly
mm the early 1880s. The onlookers may be Samuel P.
Langley and Otts T. Mason. Donated from the
Philadelphia Centennial exhibit, the totem poles were
accessioned in 1876. The one in the center is currently on
display at the north end of Hall 8.

of what a financial drag a museum could be, having
seen the cost of collection maintenance lead to the ruin
of the National Institute.’ Before agreeing to accept
the collections, Henry had made certain that federal
money would be available for their maintenance. In
1857 (and every year since) Congress appropriated the
funds. A Guide to the Smithsonian Institution and National
Museum was published in 1859, but it was not until 1870
that Henry used the name National Museum in the
Annual Report, and not until four years later that Con-
gress used the term in an appropriations bill.”

Henry’s insistence on federal support for federal col-
lections had several interesting consequences. The
Smithsonian continues as a semiprivate institution, but
because it administers government funds, its museum
employees are civil servants just like employees of the
Agriculture, Commerce, or Interior departments, with
the same rules and regulations to follow. Perhaps the
most important point is that the museum is public prop-
erty: Anyone may enter to see the exhibits; anyone may
enter without paying a fee. Henry’s recognition that
the federal government should maintain a museum, in
the same sense that the government should make a
survey of the coasts or investigate how to make crops
grow better, was a major development whose ramifi-
cations continue to this day.

Centennial Exposition Exhibits

The approaching 1876 Centennial Exposition at Phil-
adelphia was to be a great event. Because there was no
working space in the Castle, a small, temporary brick
building was constructed to the west of it in 1875, near
where the Freer Gallery of Art now stands. There Baird
assembled a crew—including his protégé George Brown
Goode—to help plan and build exhibits. The Smith-
sonian had a noteworthy display in Philadelphia, and
Baird coaxed many of the other exhibitors to donate
their materials to the federal government.

As might be expected, these donations changed the
problem of getting more material into the enormously
crowded Castle from difficult to impossible. “Tempo-
rary storage space had to be obtained by taking over a
pre-Civil War armory situated in a neighborhood long
since eradicated by urban renewal, between Sixth and
Seventh on B Street, SW.’

Without too much prodding, Congress agreed to give
the National Museum a building of its own. Ground
was broken on the east side of the Castle on April 17,
1879. The square brick structure was a cheap one, cost-
ing only $315,400. Familiar now as the Arts and In-
dustries Building, it houses a facsimile of the 1876 Ex-
position put together for the nation’s Bicentennial. A
reconstruction of the Smithsonian Institution display
may be seen on the east side of the south hall.’

On March 4, 1881, the nearly completed United States
National Museum building was used for James A. Gar-
field’s Inaugural Ball. After the bunting was taken down,
the floors swept, and a few minor repairs made, the
building was opened to the public. For the first ime
there was some additional space for permanent ex-
hibits.

George Brown Goode
Meanwhile, Secretary Henry had died. In 1878 Baird
succeeded him and eventually promoted George Brown
Goode to Assistant Secretary, in charge of the National
Museum. Goode, who had come to the Institution in
1873, was by training an ichthyologist. While he never
put the fishes entrrely behind him, he rapidly became
a “museum man.” When the Centennial Exposition in-
spired a whole series of major fairs and shows, Goode
sent exhibits to them. In his tme he was widely re-
garded as the New World’s leading specialist in museum
administration and in exhibit preparation, which he
developed into a field in itself. After Baird’s death in
1887, Samuel Pierpont Langley, an astronomer, be-
came Secretary of the Smithsonian. He was not partic-
ularly interested in collections, but Goode, being steeped
in the Baird tradition, continued to acquire material.
Most of it went into the National Museum, but the
Castle retained a sizeable display, described in a con-
temporary account:

Case after case through one of its great halls is
filled with birds of all feathers, mounted so
skillfully that they exhibit not only the
characteristic poses of the birds but in many cases
their habits in life. They vary in size from the
smallest humming bird to the largest ostrich... .
Another large hall is devoted to insects collected
from an equally-wide area and presenting as great
a diversity in size and color. ... Here also is a
marvelous collection of birds’ eggs, varying in size
all the way from the hemeopathic pellet to a
football. The collection of shells, of sponges, of
coral, and other curious organisms of the sea is
enormous.’

Goode as administrator delineated three roles he saw
for a museum. He recognized that, first, it served as a

16

museum of record; and if material is to serve as a stan-
dard of comparison, it must be kept safely. Today we
might refer to this as a data bank of objects. Second,
Goode noted the museum of research; and people who
work in science, just as in any other field, must have
the proper facilities. Today we might refer to this as a
research institute, but Goode made clear in his various
writings that study of the collections, not abstract theo-
rizing, was what he referred to as research. Finally,
there was the museum of education; and without col-
lections, museums have no objects to exhibit. Today as
always, the display halls are what the average visitor
considers a museum.

There are examples of museums that, without any
collections, do well at one or another of these various
functions. As Goode saw it, however, the basic reason
for a museum was to accumulate and maintain collec-
uons. Collections were like the platform of a stool, with
the three functions Goode distinguished acting as the
legs. The trick was—and still is—to keep these “legs”
in perfect balance. Because this is almost impossible,
one aspect of the history of the Smithsonian Institution
has been the emphasis on different museum functions
at different mes. None of the three approaches has
ever been ignored.

Goode knew that this new building was incapable of
showing the diversity of nature and the handiwork of
man in a coherent manner, let alone storing the moun-
tains of natural-history specimens that kept piling up
in Washington. In his Annual Report of 1882, Secretary
Baird acknowledged “the inadequacy of the Museum
building, then scarcely more than a year old, to house
the rapidly increasing national collections.”° One of the
basic facts of museology is that there is never sufficient
space to house the collections. Regardless of this, the
dedicated museum worker brings them in.

In the course of his day-to-day work, Goode devel-
oped many ot the techniques still used in the Museum.
He improved the accessioning and cataloguing pro-
cedures, standardized case and drawer sizes, issued in-
structions on collecting methods, and oversaw a myriad
of other seldom-considered details. Goode died at the
age of forty-five, almost certainly from overwork.’

“The death of Secretary Baird in 1887, while a serious
blow ... was felt less by the Museum force in general
than was that of Dr. Goode in 1896,” the head of the
Department of Geology wrote in the 1920s. “The loss
of the last named was seemingly quite irreparable and
for a time created a panic among those who had been
looking forward to a life profession in Museum work
under his guidance and with his cooperation.”®

George Brown Goode summed up his lifetime of
experience in a one-sentence aphorism that to this day
is quoted by museum authorities seeking increases in
their budgets. He wrote, in capitals: “A FINISHED
MUSEUM IS A DEAD MUSEUM AND A DEAD MU-
SEUM IS A USELESS MUSEUM.”?

The Structure
Office space in the balcony of
the Smithsonian Castle’s
Great Hall, probably well
before 1910. The specimens
being studied are mollusk

shells.

Hall of Fisheries in the
Smithsonian Castle, some-
where between 1880 and

1910. The life-size models of
the octopus and the giant
squid were moved to the new
National Museum, where
they remained on exhibit
until the 1950s. Later they
were tra nsferred to storage al
Silver Hill, Maryland, but
they lost some plaster in
moving and eventually

were discarded.

The United States National Museum 17
toward the Capitol.

Charles Doolittle Walcott

Following Goode’s death, Charles Doolittle Walcott
served as Acting Assistant Secretary, in charge of the
United States National Museum, for eighteen months
in 1897 and 1898. Walcott was a paleontologist who
had risen through the ranks to become director of the
United States Geological Survey in 1894. That orga-
nization had run afoul of Congress, but made a come-
back under Walcott’s leadership. Not only had he per-
suaded Congress to restore the budget to its former
levels in order to study geology and make topographic
maps; he convinced them that his organization should
be studying the national forests.

Walcott conunued to head the Geological Survey and
to publish papers on paleontology while he was Assis-
tant Secretary, but his close contacts with Congress now
benefited the National Museum as well. The Museum
had long planned to build side galleries in the four
main exhibit halls, and in 1897 Congress appropriated
$8,000 for the first of these galleries.'? Goode had been
requesting funds without success since 1893.

Walcott inherited an administrative hodgepodge, for
Goode had designated innumerable divisions and sec-

18

United States National Museum under construction, pro bably in 1880. The picture was taken from t

ad

he Castle, looking east

tions within the United States National Museum. There
was virtually no paid staff; whenever a volunteer ap-
peared, a special niche was carved out for him as an
honorary curator or some such ttle. Although Walcott
was unable to increase the staff, he clarified the or-
ganization by setting up three departments: Anthro-
pology, Biology, and Geology. Each had a head curator,
with curators in charge of subdivisions. For the first
ume a chain of command was established. The various
internal divisions have changed over the years. While
the Department of Anthropology survives intact, the
departments of Botany, Entomology, Invertebrate Zo-
ology, and Vertebrate Zoology represent the original
Biology Department; and Mineral Sciences and Paleo-
biology, Geology.

As Acting Assistant Secretary, Walcott performed one
further, inestimable behind-the-scenes task for the Mu-
seum. “During his administration,” the geologist Bailey
Willis relates, “‘Uncle Joe’ Cannon was Speaker of the
House, and it was [Cannon’s] habit after a fatiguing
session to walk up Pennsylvania Avenue. Walcott, as if
by chance, would draw up beside the curb with a fast-
stepping bay and a light buggy and suggest a drive in

The Structure
Installing the Easter Island
images in the National
Museum, 1888. George
Brown Goode 1s to the left,
Secretary Langley stands
with hat in hand, and to the
right is Otus T. Mason, later
to be second head of the
Department of Anthropology.
Copied from a print in
William Henry Holmes’s
“Random Records.”

Rock Creek Park, but during these rides he never men-
tioned business. On one occasion ‘Uncle Joe’ paused,
his foot on the step, and said: ‘Walcott, you may have
a building for the Survey or one for the National Mu-
seum, but you can’t have both.’ And Walcott took the
Museum.” !!

Richard C. Rathbun
In 1898 Richard C. Rathbun was named Assistant Sec-
retary, in charge of the United States National Museum,
and Walcott returned full-time to the Geological Sur-
vey. Rathbun had started his career as a geologist, but
under Baird’s spell he had become enamored of fish
and, like Goode, soon developed a compulsive concern
for collections and museums. It is to him that we owe
our clear account of the first National Museum building
and the various attempts to persuade Congress to build
a new one. After Walcott left, it was Rathbun who kept
up congressional interest, for Secretary Langley was
preoccupied with developing a man-carrying aircraft,
and, to put it gently, was not known for either his
administrative or political skills. In 1903 Congress fi-
nally authorized the building, at a cost not to exceed
$3,500,000—a figure attained through some political
shufflings with several proposals. Before midyear a firm
of Washington architects, Hornblower and Marshall,
had been selected to draw the final plans. It was ex-
pected that construction would take about four or five
years.'*

In the 1880s the general idea of a second museum

The United States National Museum

had been a brick building similar to the United States
National Museum, but two stories high. The World
Columbian Exposition of 1893 in Chicago set the stage
for a change from high Victorian style to neoclassic
arehitecture. It also inspired what became the McMillan
Commission to beautify the city of Washington. The
proposed museum was to be the first building con-
structed according to the dictates of the Commission,
and plans for it became increasingly elaborate. For a
time the anticipated building was one-third larger again
than the one that actually was constructed.

Langley led the ground-breaking on June 14, 1904,
but faded from the scene and died early in 1906. The
Board of Regents offered the secretaryship to Henry
Fairfield Osborn, who declined to leave the American
Museum of Natural History in New York City. At last,
in 1907, Walcott became the fourth Secretary of the
Smithsonian Institution.

For several years Rathbun bore the burdens of the
Museum and its new building. As Acting Secretary after
Langley’s death, he oversaw all of the Smithsonian’s
increasing activities, and while the new Secretary was
settling into office and going off to Canada to search
for fossils, Rathbun planned the new exhibits and the
horrendous job of moving the collections. When all was
finished, Rathbun described the building. There is much
architectural terminology to digest and perhaps more
detail than one wants in this account, but one cannot
help feeling that Rathbun loved every bolt and brick
in his lovely new building. Oo

19
Oriental Hall in the United

20

States National Museum.

Cement floor being put in at
the United States National
Museum, with Pacific
Northwest Indian canoes
hanging above. This was
probably taken in the late
1880s to 1890 after the
original wooden floor

rotted away.

The Structure
Above, plaster cast of toothed
whale Zeuglodon (now
more correctly referred to as
Basilosaurus); below, Irish
elk (Megaloceros); and
extreme left, ground sloth
(Eremotherium), in the
United States National
Museum. The Trish elk has
been remounted at least three
times, and is now in Hall 6.
This ground sloth is not the
Panamanian specimen
currently on exhibit. The
Zeuglodon was not collected
until the 1890s, so the pho-
tograph can be dated within
about a fifteen-year interval
near the turn of the century.

Mammal exhibit in the
United States National
Museum around 1900,
showing the Hornaday
buffalo (Bison) group

in the foreground.

The United States National Museum 21
Chapter 2

The New
Building

¢¢ [[N THE DESIGNING OF THE BUILDING,” Rathbun

wrote, “two principal objectives were kept in view,
first, to secure the largest possible amount of available
space and second, to produce a substantial and digni-
fied structure... . Planned asa great shell. . . the build-
ing contains few permanent walls, and by giving ex-
ceptional width to the main mass an unusual extent of
floor area as compared to the extent of the outer walls
has been obtained. Other notable features are the ab-
sence of the customary monumental staircase, and the
minimizing of dark spaces as also of distracting archi-
tectural details in the interior. The construction is en-
tirely fireproof.”'

Although it is impossible to get from one place to
another within its walls without getting lost, the basic
plan of the building is simple. Picture an inverted, fat
T having the horizontal member twice the length of
the vertical. This is the south side of the building, facing
the Castle across the Mall, with the Capitol to the east
of it and the Washington Monument to the west. The
shorter, vertical member of the T points north. From
the north or Constitution Avenue entrance, two nar-
rower segments called ranges extend eastward and
westward parallel to the Mall. Each range then turns a
right angle and runs south to join the main wings, thus
enclosing a hollow rectangle on each side of the north-
south segment. The rotunda marks the intersection of
this north with the east-west wings at the front of the
building. Even with this plan in mind, it is not partic-
ularly easy to visualize locations such as, say, the south
side of the north range, no matter how many years one
walks around inside the two-square-block structure.

The two open courts, each 128 feet square, were a
vital part of the building’s design. They provided two
commodities seldom spoken of today—fenestration and
ventilation. Electric lights were in fairly common use
by the turn of the century, but no intelligent person

July 9, 1904: Digging the foundation for the new National
Museum on the east side of the building, using an
authentic steam-powered steam shovel and mulepower to

haul the dirt.

would have expected them to take the place of daylight,
especially if one wanted to see the true colors of objects.
The courts were a necessity if the inner part of the
Museum were to be light enough for the exhibits to be
seen and the staff to work. In addition, everyone knows
that cross-ventilation is far better than just opening a
window. Windows on both sides of the building were
one way to ameliorate the Washington summer heat.
The courtyard walls are faced with light-colored brick,
and the windows are framed with granite from Wood-
stock, Maryland.

The exterior walls of the Museum are built of solid
red brick, hidden from view by a facing of granite blocks
ten inches or more thick. The exterior walls are quite
massive; on the east side they measure seven feet in
thickness. The new Museum was built to last, and it is
strong. For twenty years the east attic contained several
hundred 500-pound steel cases full of fossils, giving a
total weight of approximately half a ton per square
yard, yet there was never any doubt that the building
could support such a load.

The McMillan Commission had decreed that gov-
ernment buildings were to have a light-colored exterior,
a reaction against the red-brick style that had domi-
nated Washington during the last quarter of the nine-
teenth century. The Patent Office and Tariff buildings,
two early government structures (one occupied, and
one soon to be, by the Smithsonian) were of limestone
and local sandstone. They had not stood up well. That
left granite as the logical facing material.

Three different kinds of granite were used on the
outside of the building. The ground-floor stone is from
Milford, Massachusetts; this is called pink granite, but
the color is light gray, the stone developing a pinkish
cast when wet with rain. The first and second floors
and the dome are built of white granite from Bethel,
Vermont. The third floor uses another white granite
of a different hue, from Mount Airy, North Carolina.
(Perhaps, half a century after the Civil War, it was good
politics to have some stone from north and some from
south.) Had any cost/benefit ratio been seriously con-
sidered, it is unlikely that granite would have been se-
‘
;
d

;

Breaking ground for the new National Museum, June 14,
1904. Sec relary Langley holds the shovel. To the left,
midway between him and the lady with the umbrella, is
Assistant Secretary Rathbun. To the right of Secretary

lected even in the early 1900s, for the need to cut each
stone to size before setting it in the proper position
outside the bricks turned the granite facing into a major
logistic problem. Labor and material were inexpensive,
however, and the new Museum did not exceed its pro-
jected cost. This was in the tradition of the first National
Museum building, which had been built for less than
was appropriated by the Congress and had opened
ahead of schedule.

New Building Vs. Old

The differences between the new building and the old
were manifold. One gets an idea of what was thought
of the old National Museum from George Perkins Mer-
rill, head curator of geology and an expert on building
stones, who had joined the staff in 1881: “It was a square
squatty affair of red, blue, and yellow brick, exteriorly
an architectural horror, interiorly a barren waste. It

24

Langley, hat in hand, is J.D. Hornblower, architect, and
behind the hat is Bernard L. Green, superintendent of
construction.

presented one redeeming feature—space; and as it was
space that Baird was after, I presume it may at first
thought have been considered a success. One may here
be reminded of the reply made by a high official after
being shown through the then newly finished Pension
Office building. ‘Well,’ it was asked, ‘have you any crit-
icism?’ ‘Yes,’ was the reply, ‘it is fireproof.’”*

Yet no one except Rathbun seemed excited by the
appearance of the new building, which, though hand-
some and solid, is hardly dramatic. The British Museum
of Natural History building, with its various terra-cotta
animals decorating both exterior and interior walls, is
far more interesting.’ The National Museum’s archi-
tects and some of the staff had toured European mu-
seums before final plans were made, and original plans
did include terra-cotta facing. But that idea soon dis-
appeared in favor of an exterior whose classic style has
remained in harmony with neighboring buildings. To

The Structure
rs 1 SSE

TT Ti

Three architectural sketches of the proposed New National subsequent designs showed an even fancier dome. Bottom,

Museum. Top, with a low mansard roof and a skylight the building with a semple Roman-style dome, essentially as
around the central areas, as planned in July 1903. it was constructed except for the obelisks at either end. This
Middle, with the elaborate dome projected in 1904; sketch was published in the Annual Report for 1909.

The New Building 25
Bui LoInG For NAnNOoNAL Museum
RULES FoR WORKMEN

Working hours 8 tO IZ and 12.301 4.30.
Come and go Through middle gate g

3. Each man will receive a check by which
his time will be kept.

Checks must be taken care of and
depositéd with fhe watchman at the gaté
before & o'clock. Laté men must
first report at the office.

. Men who lose checks must replace
Them with new ones before going
fo work or receiving pay.

. Checks will be distributed 16 The men
before Quitting time.

Men leaving work earlier must first report
to the foreman and then get their
checks at the office.

. Men absent for three days will be laid
off unless a satisfactory excuse is

promptly given :

Men laid off or quitting, work will
receive a card fo € pay clerk at
the Library Building.

. No smoking during working hours.

Use water closefS and commit no
nuisance about the building.

- Refurn all fools at end of day to places
as directed by foreman.

» Nobody allowed f6 carry anyfhing but his
Own properly away from the building.
Packages will be examined whenever
Thought proper by foreman or watchman.

Superintendent

Rules for workmen as laid down by Bernard L. Green. The
superintendent of buildngs and grounds for the Library of
Congress, he knew how to run a major construction job.

NORTH PAVILION

ETHNOLOGY
ETHNOLOGY

WES8T COURT £A6T COURT

oo 2 sw

“SYSTEMATIC. GEOLOGY

FOSSIL PLANTS

q SOUTH PAVILION «
MAMMALS . AND . FOSSIL VERTEBRATES
ROTUNDA

ey
oO

FOSSIL. INVERTEBRATES

=)

EAST WING

“Plan of first story of new building, showing distribution of
exhibition collections.” This illustration from the Annual
Report for 1913 shows clearly the three wings, each
connected with two ranges to make the two courts. One hall
in the east wing and several halls in the west wing still
were not open to the public at this time.

NORTH PAVILION

WEST RANGE EAST RANGE

| DOMESTIC, LOCAL I
| ANIMALS [FAUNA

shee fel

AMERICAN ARCHEOLOGY
e 8 £ © 8 8 8

WEST COURT

SYSTEMATIC ZOOLOGY
AMERICAN ARCHEOLOGY

.

OLO WORLD ARCHEOLOGY

APPLIED GEOLOGY

REPTILES
ATRACHIANS ;

Is

WEST WING EAST WING

el SOUTH PAVILION
“Plan of second story of new building, showing distribution
of exhibition collections,” from the 1913 Annual Report.
The black dots denote supporting pillars. In the west north
range (Hall 26), the local-fauna exhibit included the birds
of the District of Columbia now on display by the Baird
Auditorium.

The Structure
some viewers it looks even newer than the fifty-year-

old Federal ‘Triangle buildings on the north side of

Constitution Avenue.

While the Museum building is not the Parthenon or
even the Lincoln Memorial, likewise it is not a char-
acterless modern-day office building, and the dedicated
student of architectural history can spend an hour look-
ing at the exterior. There is some detail to be discerned.
The window ledges of the ground floor are formed by
the upper surface of the massive lower course of mon-
oliths, whose rusticated surface contrasts with the smooth
blocks above. Each vertical pair of windows on the two
exhibit floors is treated as essentially one window,
strengthening the vertical lines of the building.

On the third story, the roof line is set back along the
ranges but is entirely vertical on the wings. ‘The third-
floor ranges have more granite decoration than the
wings, with alternating half-circles and triangles above
the windows. The roof and dome are covered with light
gray-green slate from Poultney, Vermont, and choice
ledges and crevices all over the building—the south
portico in particular—are covered with pigeons. The
birds are conditioned by many years’ worth of attempts
to harass them into leaving, and nothing affects them.
Like the granite, they are permanent.

Dome, Stately Entrance, Rotunda

The building’s most pleasing aesthetic feature is prob-
ably the dome, best seen from the Mall side. The en-
trance from the Mall is stately, with two runs of steps
to the south portico. The north entrance is architec-
turally the least satisfactory part of the building. Both
sides have massive bronze doors. If there is one single
criticism to be leveled against the architects, these grand-
looking, heavy doors are it. Several generations of me-
chanics have oiled them, tinkered with them, and cursed
them, but since the day the Museum opened, the public
has had difficulty heaving them open.

The interior of the building is only slightly more
detailed than the exterior. The easiest way to see its
best features is to go to the second floor and walk around
the rotunda, looking both down, to the floor of Ten-
nessee marble, and up. The view of the dome and the
large windows is even better from the third floor, but
this contains offices and collections and 1s off-limits to
tourists. Few of the staff visit the fourth-floor rotunda
unless their collections are stored there.

The rotunda is eight-sided, with the four sides di-
rectly facing the wings and the portico being much
wider than the four sides in between. Each of these
four longer sides has a screen of pillars made of pol-
ished brecciated marble. ‘The first-story columns are
Doric in style, and the second- and third-story columns
are Roman Ionic. As one continues to look upward
above the third screen of columns, the four semicircular

The New Building

In this proposal for the rotunda, drawn in section,
enormous bull’s-eye windows let light into the area, the
mtervor is adorned with figures, and the dome is
surmounted by a winged statue. To the left are additional
statues at the south entrance, and an exedra—an enormous
semicircular entrance befitting a palace. The auditorium, in
this fanciful sketch, is placed under the rotunda, indicating
a date after 1904—after construction had begun.

clerestory windows and the arches containing them can
be seen. Craning one’s neck, it is possible to see the
tiled interior of the dome and the skylight. This is al-
most as impressive a view as looking into the dome of
the Capitol.

There are three exhibit halls to the north, east, and
west on the first floor, and two each on the second
floor. By Rathbun’s measure, the new building had
468,000 square feet (ten and three-quarters acres), of
which 220,000 square feet (five acres) was exhibit space.
The central hall of each of the three wings has an
enormously high ceiling, most of which is roofed by a
long, wide skylight. This high ceiling is best seen today
from the center of the north hall. A balcony on the
second floor, added in the 1960s to Hall 10, permits a
better view of the skylight and the plaster molding than
tourists in the early days could have had. Sull, one
wonders why even this relatively simple ornamental
detail was put in, for the truth of the matter is that no
one looks at it. People come to a museum to see the
exhibits, not the shell that contains them.

ca f
Chapter 3

Building
The Building

Avene CONSTRUCTION BEGAN , on June 14, 1904,
“the lateness of the season precluded the holding
of a formal ceremony on the occasion, but the first
spadeful of earth was turned by Secretary Langley in
the presence of the superintendent of construction, the
architects, and the employees of the Museum and In-
stitution.”' Langley said a few words, a board fence was
erected, and the digging started. The remark about the
lateness of the season is a reflection of the era when
Congress departed for the summer. What is perhaps
more interesting was that it was considered still “too
early to discuss the details of the plans.”’ There were
not many major museum buildings in the country, and
in spite of their examination of foreign buildings, the
architects really did not have a grasp of what was needed,
or how best to put the parts together.

Clearly the plans were not engraved on stone; they
shifted repeatedly and sometimes wildly. Plans of 1902
show a nearly flat roof having a great skylight over the
rotunda. Part of the roof was modified to a mansard
style, covering pavilions on the east and west ends of
the structure. As late as 1904, the auditorium was placed
in the foyer, not under the rotunda. The south entrance
was designed as an exedra—a semicircular entryway
befitting a palace. The entire south facade was to be
adorned with statuary. The formerly flat roof suddenly
sprouted a dome in the style of the French Second
Empire.

In its ime the Museum was the largest building in
the city apart from the Capital, covering nearly four
acres. Completing the excavations and having the mas-
sive concrete foundations in by November 9, 1904, was
an excellent start. The contracts for the granite were
let during these first several months. Early in the winter,
“the scheme of correcting any possible mistake of line
and effect as practiced at the Union Station by erection
of a wooden fascimile of a section was tried at the Mu-

Northwest corner of the building before completion of the
ground floor, looking south toward the Castle on November
22, 1905. The office at this corner is now occupied by the
Travel Service.

29)

seum. A complete bay, or window, from basement to
attic was constructed, and it proved so serviceable that
a complete change was made in the elevation of the
structure. It was discovered that a certain lack of height
prevented a convergence of lines. The question was
answered by raising the foundation three feet.”’ This
alteration “also permits the transfer of the lecture room
to the rotunda basement, removing it from the center
wing, which will become available for exhibition pur-
poses.”* Denizens of museums are supposedly attracted
to the basements, which by tradition are expected to
be dark and cramped. At least now it is clear why the
Museum basement, or ground floor, has such a high
ceiling. It is another tribute to the strength of the build-
ing that the architects could add extra height without
any concern.

Laying the First Stone

The first stone was laid August 21, 1905
near the north entrance, on the east side. The northern
side of the building site required less excavation than
the Mall side, so apparently it was easier to start there.
The cornerstone is on the northeast corner of the Con-
stitution Avenue entrance. Things were moving well
on the construction except that, as Rathbun noted in
1906, “the failure of one of the quarries to furnish stone
within the time agreed upon has been the cause of some
delay and had retarded the completion of the building
until about two years hence.”

The top of the building caused major problems.
Hornblower and Marshall, not content with their dome
of 1904, envisioned in 1905 an even more elaborate
one surmounted by a great winged statue. The con-
struction superintendent, Bernard L. Green, who was
also the superintendent of buildings and grounds of
the Library of Congress, was sympathetic toward a dome
but consulted another architect, who greatly modified
the Hornblower and Marshall concept. In one of his
last major decisions, Langley got rid of the elaborate
dome and the statuary. Thus the neoclassical building
came to be surmounted by a simple Roman-style dome.

By October 1906, the Washington Post was writing,

a large block
“Looming up amidst the trees which skirt the northern
edge of the Mall, near Tenth Street, the walls of the
new United States National Museum are now beginning
to assume tangible proportions.””

Delays in Construction
However, it was not going all that smoothly. “Work on
the new building has not progressed as rapidly as was
expected, owing to delays in the delivery of the granite
which was to compose the greater part of the outer
wall,” Rathbun complained again in 1907. “The fault
has lain both with the quarry and with the railroad
leading therefrom, the former have already violated
the me limit of its contract by a considerable amount,
and the latter having neglected to furnish necessary
cars when called upon to do so. This delay has not only
caused annoyance, but is resulting in pecuniary loss to
the Government through the deterioration of large col-
lections held in storage, and in other ways.”

Annoyed as he was, Rathbun did overemphasize the
deterioration of the collections. This was in large meas-
ure material from the 1904 Louisiana Purchase Ex-
position in St. Louis. Once again, as at Philadelphia in
1876, a great deal of material was available and the
Smithsonian took it, knowing full well that storage space
was inadequate.” Sull, Rathbun could report there had
been some progress, with the east side completed to
the second story and work on the west side ready to go
as soon as the granite arrived.

In the summary of 1908 Rathbun wrote:

At the close of the [fiscal] year the exterior walls,
except those enclosing the south pavilion and the
dome, for which the stone had not been received,

30

The Mall before construction
of the new National
Museum, as viewed from the
tower of the Castle. To the
right is the Post Office
Building, a massive granite
structure completed in the
1890s; the museum site is
farther to the right, just out
of the picture. June 1, 1904.

ae

were finished, and the construction of the roofs
was well underway. The interior structural walls
and piers were also completed in the rough, and
many of the metal window frames of the first and
second stories were in place. Some of the latter
likewise had been glazed. So much work still
remains to be done in the interior, however, such
as the building of partitions, the laying of floors,
the plastering, the installation of the heating,
ventilating, and lighting plants with their immense
ramifications of pipes and wires, the completion of
the windows, and countless lesser details, that the
expectation held forth of being able to make some
use of the building by January, 1909, has had to
be abandoned.’

For once Rathbun was wrong, for the building was
used earlier than anticipated—‘“as the meeting place of
the Sixth International Tuberculosis Congress, held in
the early autum of 1908. ... A large part of the first
and second floors, as well as the basement, was given
over to the Congress and while the progress of con-
struction of the building was thereby much retarded,
this delay may be regarded as fully sanctioned by the
exceptionally important nature of the event which oc-
casioned it.”!”

In his next report Rathbun fired another blast at the
granite quarry and the railroad, this time including the
stonecutters, and remarked that a monumental stair-
way had been dropped from the plans because it would
take up too much space. Actually he had a great deal
to be pleased about, even though the building was still
not finished. “The entire stonework of the outer walls
of the building, including the porch, columns, and front

The Structure
muni

of the south pavilion in which the main entrance is
located, was, however, completed, as were also the roofs
and the skylights of the building generally. .. .Good
progress was made in the preparation and construction
of furniture for the new building, more especially for
the storage rooms and laboratories, in which it is in-
tended, so far as possible, to utilize the best quality of
fireproof material.”"!

Of course, nothing goes easily. The optimists who
had assumed that the building would be completed by
June 1909 had not renewed the lease on rented storage
space, and the bulk of the stored collections had to be
moved into several of the new exhibit halls. Although
Rathbun complained that “this summary action pre-
vented the assorting and proper assignment of material

. and will necessarily cause some inconvenience in
the final adjustment of the collections,”'* it does seem
clear from this remark that he was a patient, long-
suffering man, slow to anger—at least in his official
writings.

Rathbun’s report continued:

On August 10, 1909, occupation of the third story,
which is divided into rooms for laboratories,
reserve collections, and offices, was obtained from

Building the Building

from tower of the Castle before World War I.

the superintendent of construction, although at the
time the story was unprovided with doors, and
temporary expedients had to be adopted for the
protection of such property as was first moved. On
November 9 following, the remaining stories of the
main building were turned over to the Museum,
and while constructive work of a subordinate
character continued to be carried on during most
of the rest of the year, it cannot be said to have
materially interfered with Museum operations.
The mechanical plant was completed in ample
time to meet the requirements of the winter
season, the boilers being put into permanent
service on October 15, 1901."

Congress came up with a supplemental appropriation
to allow for grading and construction of roads on the
outside and to paint the walls on the inside.

The last construction work on the new National Mu-
seum was finished on June 20, 1911. The annual re-
ports for the next several years discuss problems of
leaks in the new roofs and how a great amount of metal
flashing had to be taken up and replaced; but like the
delivery of granite, this too was ultimately completed.

31
Construction on the ground
floor at the west side of the
building, looking north
toward the Post Office.
September 13, 1905.

=a. a = mat OB awe ( es

dation of the new National Museum, probably taken from the tower of the Smithsonian Castle. The low area in the
center is the site of the Baird Auditorium. March 22, 1906.

Foun

32 The Structure
Ta, RSE a |
meee: emery Tee aE
eles cap arrange | }
ga A
= ee {
a i a al ig

Construction of the east wing to the third-floor level and the rotunda to the fourth-floor (attic) level; probably taken in 1907
from the tower of the Castle. In the middle distance is the Old Patent Office building, the current site of the National
Museum of American Art and the National Portrait Gallery.

Aerial view of the new
National Museum looking
north-northwest; the farmers’
market is on the north side of
B Street and there is no
construction for the Federal
Triangle of government
buildings. The projections on
the south side of each court-
yard house the freight
elevators, which were run by
direct electric current

until the 1960s.

Building the Building 33
Chapter 4

Moving Into
Valhalla

ee DETAIL IS PRESERVED as to the actual me-
chanics of the move to the north side of the Mall.
Loaded on wagons, specimens and cases scattered among
the Smithsonian Castle, the old National Museum, and
temporary storage facilities were transported to their
new home. While the east side of the building had been
the first to be built, the west side, facing the Washington
Monument, was the first to start filling up.

On August 11, 1901, the day after permission to
occupy the third floor was obtained, the mollusk col-
lections began to be moved in. The division’s curator,
William Healy Dall, measured the floor plans (“a hope-
less muddle”)' late in May, but soon went off to Maine
for the summer, leaving assistant curator Paul Bartsch
to supervise the move. A long-time preparator in the
Department of Biology, John A. Mirguet, had a vivid
recollection of bringing a case full of mollusks from the
balcony and the north tower of the Castle to the third
floor of the new building and positioning it on a piece
of flooring newly laid down by the carpenter. ‘The time
it took him to go back to the Castle and return with
another load was just sufficient for the carpenter to lay
another piece of flooring. These cases were awkward
pieces to move—six feet high and about ten feet wide,
with space for four stacks of drawers.

When Dall returned in the fall he spent a month
unpacking his books and office collections, and by mid-
November was settled in his new quarters, actively pur-
suing his research. Not only was he an important figure
at the Museum, but his career casts some light on the
often-curious arrangement of research collections.

In 1865 Dall, then twenty, came to Washington for
the first time, leaving shortly thereafter for more than
three years in Alaska. Upon his return he lived in the
south tower of the Castle, working on the collections
without pay. As there was no prospect of employment,
he joined the Coast Survey in 1871 and went back to
Alaska for three more years, this time to study the

“Alcoholic specimen room, middle part of ground story, west
wing,” from United States National Museum Bulletin
80 (1913). This area is now used for preparation of exhibits.

35

Aleutian Islands. While working in the Castle after his
return, he continued to be paid by the Coast Survey
until 1884. ‘Then he joined the United States Geological
Survey, but still remained in his Smithsonian office,
now in the north tower. While the recent mollusks were
moved to the west range of the new National Museum,
the collection of Cenozoic fossils was moved there also.
As part of this work for the Geological Survey, Dall
curated these fossils and wrote a study of the fossils of
Florida.

Dall was a friend of T. Wayland Vaughan, another
Geological Survey employee and a specialist on corals.
Thus modern and Cenozoic corals were also housed
with the mollusks at first. Modern brachiopods were
an interest of Dall’s, so they too were “mollusks”; and
because Paul Bartsch taught courses in economic para-
sitology at a local university, parasitic worms were” mol-
lusks” for years.”

An Orderly Transfer
Under Rathbun’s direction, the move into the new
Museum was fairly orderly. “As it was desirable at first
to establish the scientific staff and the general collec-
tions in the building, the construction of the storage
and laboratory furniture was taken up and mostly fin-
ished before work on the exhibition cases was begun,”
he reported in 1910.°

Fire is one of the persistent worries of any museum
administrator. As a safeguard, cases for specimen stor-
age, formerly made of wood, were to be of steel or at
least covered with metal; covers on these cases inhibited
the pervasive dust. Steel shelving and steel racks were
also the ideal. Sulphur-tipped, strike-anywhere matches
were forbidden in the building, and several signs posted
in the attic proclaimed in large letters that smoking
there was grounds for instant dismissal.

Rathbun’s account of fiscal year 1910 went on:

The moving of the reserve collections was
commenced in August, 1909, and by [July, 1910]
not only had it been practically completed, but the
systematic arrangement of the specimens in their
new quarters, either permanently or tentatively,
had also been accomplished. While the new
installation had not been perfected to the same
extent in all of the divisions, yet, as a whole, it was
so far advanced as to produce conditions vastly

superior to those existing at any previous time.
Such a result was only made possible by the greatly
increased and more convenient accommodations,
which permitted the spreading out in an accessible
and orderly manner all of the material belonging
to each division, and by the employment of
temporary help exceptional progress was made in
the work of recording and cataloging specimens.
The mechanical and scientific workshops and the
offices generally were among the first in the new
quarters to be furnished. '

Writing in 1941, the vertebrate paleontologist Charles
Gilmore looked back on the transition:

At the time of my affiliation with the National
Museum in 1903, the bulk of the [O.C.] Marsh
collection was stored in rented buildings in
southwest Washington. The first floor of a three-
story brick building on the west side of 10th street
near C street, SW, was then in use as a
paleontological laboratory, the cellar and the two
upper floors being completely occupied by boxes
and crated trays of vertebrate material. The study
collections of this period were kept in standard
trays arranged in tiers of the balcony in the
southeast corner of the present Arts and
Industries Building and in the lower part of A-
topped exhibition cases in use at that time. These

36

Final stages of work on the
exterior of the dome, looking
west from the roof of the east
wing.

collections in storage from 1903 on were rapidly
reduced in bulk through preparation and
condemnation of worthless material, so that in
1910, with the occupancy of the New Natural
History Building, the widely scattered storage
collections were assembled as a unit. ... For the
first time the preparators were provided with a
well-lighted, well-equipped, roomy laboratory (27
by 77 feet). These improvements in facilities were
almost immediately reflected in an improved
quality as well as quantity of output.’

The process of moving took a few years, for after
the transferring of the study collections, the exhibits
had to be taken down and reinstalled. While this opened
up some space in the Castle, the greatest positive impact
was on the old National Museum building. A Depart-
ment of Mineral Technology had been established in
1904, but lack of space and staff made it a paper or-
ganization until natural history left the building. In-
dependent divisions of Textiles and Medicine also were
created, taking some of the hodgepodge out of the
Department of Anthropology. These divisions coa-
lesced during fiscal year 1918-19 to form the Depart-
ment of Arts and Industries. Precisely when the red
brick building came to be known as the Arts and In-
dustries Building is not clear, but by the 1920s and
1930s most people referred to the buildings as “the
Museum” and “the A & I.” During the ten years it took
Arts and Industries to come into its own as a tourist
attraction, the notion of a new and old National Mu-
seum disappeared. Oo

The Structure
ff
Those who led the Institution and the Museum during this
period, photographed on the steps of the Castle in January
1915. Front row, left to right: Dr. Charles D. Walcott,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution; Dr. Richard Rathbun,
Assistant Secretary in Charge, United States National
Museum: Dr. George P. Merrill, Head curator, Geology;
Dr. Frank Baker, Superintendent, National Zoological
Park; Dr. William H. Holmes, Head Curator,
Anthropology, and Curator, National Gallery; Mr. Harry
W. Dorsey, Chief Clerk. Back row, left to right: Dr.

Moving into Vathalla

————
PEPE. bias

Ps

een ee Beare
Charles G. Abbot, Director, Astrophysical Observatory; Dr.
Leonard C. Gunnell, Assistant in Charge, Bureau of
International Catalogue of Scientific Literature. Mr. ]. H.
Fill, Property Clerk; Mr. James G. Traylor, Appointment
Clerk; Mr. C. W. Shoemaker, Chief Clerk, Exchange
Service; Mr. W. I. Adams, Disbursing Agent; Mr. A.
Howard Clark, Editor; Dr. Leonhard Stejneger, Head
Curator, Biology; Mr. F. W. Hodge, Ethnologist in
Charge, Bureau American Ethnology; Mr. Paul Brockett,

Assistant Librarian.

=e “East wing, third story,”
from United States Na-
tional Museum Bulletin
80 (1913). This laboratory
of invertebrate paleontology
cannot be precisely located,
but the general area, now
occupied by archeologists, lies
more or less under the section
of roof shown in picture on
page 36. The negative is
stained, and the effect seen
on the wall is not that of a
leaking roof. The woman
using the typewriter, barely
visible behind cabinets, may be
Margaret Moodey, secretary
of the Department of
Geology.

‘pe —el

“West range, ground story, storage of mammals,” from Avenue) side; offices were on the west court side. That area
United States National Museum Bulletin 80 (1913). was occupied by the Bureau of the Biological Survey, and 1s
The working area shown is on the B Street (Constitution now occupied by the National Anthropological Archives.

38 The Structure
“East range, third story,”

from United States
National Museum Bulle-
tin 80 (1913). This area
continues to be occupied by
Physwal Anthropology, but
the cases to the left side of
the hall have been replaced
by racks holding deeper
drawers on both sides. On
the right in the distance is
the site of the research office
of Secretary Robert McC.
Adams; immediately behind
where the photographer was
standing is the office of S.
Dillon Ripley. The wooden
floor has been replaced by
terrazzo, and the lighting has
been improved.

Moving into Valhalla

“West wing, ground story,
laboratory of marine inverte-
brates,” from United States
National Museum Bulle-
tin 80 (1913). This office
on the south side of the
building originally belonged
to Mary Jane Rathbun, and
it is probably she who is sit-
ting by the table. The area is
now used for offices by the
exhibits staff.

39
ti ae gia a aaa

Chapter 5

The National
Gallery of Art

Nala ART MAY SEEM INCONGRUOUS with nat-
ural history, it did play a significant role in the
history of the Museum and its buildings. Just as much
as the National Museum, the National Gallery of Art
was a creature of circumstance. In 1903 Harriet Lane
Johnston, niece of President Buchanan, left an impor-
tant collection to the Corcoran Gallery of Art in Wash-
ington, with the proviso that it be transferred to a na-
tional gallery of art, should one be established. Because
of certain requirements of the bequest, the Corcoran
Gallery declined the Johnston collection.

The Smithsonian had acquired some etchings, paint-
ings, and sculptures in the early days of Joseph Henry’s
regime, and while much of the material had been lent,
works of art had always been on display in the Castle.
So, with a number of paintings in the Johnston collec-
tion essentially available for the asking, the lawyers de-
cided that the Smithsonian Institution, with its open-
ended charter, was the national gallery of art; the name
was acquired through this friendly court suit.’ To im-
plement the will, a National Gallery of Art was estab-
lished within the administrative structure of the Na-
tional Museum.” Somehow space was found for paintings
and art objects to be placed on display in the brick
building of the National Museum in the fall of 1906.
This action did ensure that legally there was a National
Gallery, though the jumbled surroundings were far
from inspiring.

Since art works continued to be shown in the Castle,
a logical next step would have been to refurbish part
of the Castle as an art gallery. As the new National
Museum building neared completion, the National Gal-
lery’s first curator wrote: “The new building ... in
accordance with the understanding with Congress, has
been planned and constructed for the great collections

Wooden pillars from the John Gellatly bequest, surmounted
by candle-carrying angels. The chest in the center supports
a wooden frame in which various stained-glass windows are
exhibited. The totem pole looming over the display indicates
that this is near the south side of Hall 10, facing south
toward the rotunda. Post-1933.

4]

of natural history—geology, zoology, botany, ethnol-
ogy, and archeology. It has neither the room, nor the
proper lighting for paintings.”* But Congress did not
see the situation quite the same way, and no money was
appropriated for construction in the Castle.

The new Museum, as noted, did not have proper
lighting, but it did have room, and the center skylighted
hall of the north wing was given over to art. The pic-
tures were installed between “some of the more inter-
esting ethnological groups and historical exhibits”’—
that is, the Indians to the west in Hall 9 and the Oriental
civilizations to the east in Hall 8. It was an uncomfort-
able alliance. For lack of a better display area, a mis-
cellaneous lot of statuary was placed in the ambulatory
around the rotunda, and some pieces were stationed
in the ground-floor lobby. Later, the walls on the second
floor of the rotunda were hung with paintings that
could not possibly blend with the mounted animal heads
that decorated the two stairwells. The admixture gives
an excellent example of the National Museum’s being
one concept and the Natural History Building’s being
another.

This sounds entirely negative, but the other side of
the coin is that Hall 10 in the center of the north wing
was the first Museum display to be installed. Although
it is not easy to hang an art exhibit, it is infinitely faster
than installing a natural history display. In the final
analysis, as poorly suited as the building was for art,
the National Gallery must have been a godsend to As-
sistant Secretary Rathbun, enabling him to open some
exhibits in a relatively short time.

Formal Opening

On March 17, 1910, from noon until five in the after-
noon, the National Gallery of Art, and thus the new
Natural History Building, was formally opened to the
public. “Admission was by card, partly to prevent undue
crowding, and partly to bring the event specially to the
attention of Congress, the official body in Washington,
and all other persons known to be interested in the
promotion of art at the Nation’s Capital.”’ On Friday,
March 18, the building was open to the public, and
View of part of the collection in one of the rooms in Hall
10. Hiram Powers’s The Greek Slave ts to the right; to
the left is one of the items in the Harriet Lane Johnston
bequest, a portrait of her son as Cupid Stringing His
Bow. In the ane is one of the earliest art acquisitions of

the Institution, G. A. Healy’s painting Francis Pierre
Guillmane ae Phas was presented to President John
Tyler, who gave it to the National Institute, from which it
was transferred to the Smithsonian.

“hundreds” of people took the opportunity to see the
show. Thereafter, halls were opened as completed. In
spite of the ume and effort that had gone into the new
Natural History Building, there was never any formal
dedication.

The publicity regarding the establishment of a Na-
tional Gallery had stirred interest within the art world
and resulted in additional donations. Early in 1904,
Charles Freer offered his collection of Oriental art and
American paintings to the Instituuon; whether he was
influenced by the Johnston bequest or had decided on
this step earlier is not known. As a matter of record,
the Board of Regents—after some hemming and haw-
ing—accepted the initial Freer gift in January 1906,
before the legal tangle involving the Johnston bequest
and the National Gallery was resolv ed. Unul the open-
ing of the Freer Gallery in 1923, the only display in
Washington of some of the treasures in this collection
took place as a temporary exhibit of 175 paintings and
objects in the new National Museum from April 15 to
June 15, 1912." (A life-size model of the great blue
whale now is suspended where Whistler's paintings once
hung.) The Freer collection, and later the Freer build-
ing, were part of the United States National Museum
until 1920.

William Henry Holmes
The person chosen to direct the Smithsonian’s initiative

into the arts was William Henry Holmes. Holmes had

42

ABE aham Lincoln, contemplating, at the north end of the
north wing on the second floor. This area, near the north
elevators, is now occupied by docents. The exhibits can
hardly be seen by the light of the widely spaced incandescent
bulbs, but someone left his straw hat on the steam radiator,
suggesting that summer light was coming in. The Orpheus
behind Lincoln is a plaster cast made in 1915 for the
Francis Scott Key Memonal at Fort McHenry, Baltimore.

It was later bronzed and shown in the rotunda. The light
fixtures suggest a date before 1930.

first come to the Institution in the 1870s, and began
his career as a scientific illustrator under Fielding Brad-
ford Meek; Meek lived in the Castle for nearly twenty
years and was Joseph Henry’s star boarder. Holmes
had worked for the Hayden Territorial Survey and had
been one of the first to explore the Indian ruins of
Mesa Verde; he had also described the buried fossil
forests of Yellowstone Park. Later he became a member
of the U.S. Geological Survey and accompanied Captain
C. E. Dutton to the Grand Canyon. Two mountains,
one in the Gallatin Range in Yellowstone National Park
of Wyoming and one in the Henry Mountains of Utah,
are named for him, along with a pinnacle in the Grand
Canyon—an indication of the esteem in which he was
held by his geological colleagues.

Holmes was an excellent artist and particularly liked
watercolors. He prepared outstanding perspective
landscape views to illustrate reports for Hayden and
the U.S. Geological Survey; his line drawings of the
Grand Canyon are unequalled. Investigations by Holmes
of Indian stone tools during the early 1890s opened
new vistas in American anthropology. Because of his
skill in both anthropology and art, he was heavily in-
volved in preparing exhibits for the 1893 Columbian
Exposition in Chicago. While there he was induced to
transfer to the new Field Museum, but the director of
the Field Museum and Holmes clashed early and often.

In 1897, when Walcott formed the Department of
Anthropology, Holmes returned to the Museum as de-

The Structure
Part of the Gellatly collection,
looking north in Hall 10,
post-1933 and pre-1948.

The center piece is now the
desk of the director of the
National Museum of
American Art.

partment head. He was also the curator of prehistoric
archeology, for all department heads held other posi-
tions and were expected to continue their research.
Holmes was responsible for the founding in 1902 of
the Division of Physical Anthropology, which brought
Ales’ Hrdli¢ka to the Museum staff. That same year,
Secretary Langley called Holmes away from the Mu-
seum to be chief of the Smithsonian’s separate Bureau
of American Ethnology; Holmes continued his work as
curator of prehistoric archeology. Starting in August
1906, his new title as curator of the National Gallery
added to his many duties, although not to his salary.
In July 1909 Holmes relinquished his position as chief
of the Bureau of American Ethnology in order to re-
sume the head curatorship of the Department of An-
thropology.

It took a long time for a National Gallery of Art to
be officially recognized by Congress, but on July 1,
1920, Holmes became the full-time head of this new
Smithsonian bureau. His name disappeared from the
annual reports of the National Museum, and the De-
partment of Anthropology was run by Walter Hough.
Holmes kept the same office on the Constitution Av-
enue side of the Museum building, just to the east of
the elevators, that he had occupied as head of the De-
partment of Anthropology.

Holmes made a determined effort to establish a real
art gallery, writing articles and creating committees of
support, and by 1923 space had been reserved on the

The National Gallery of Art

Mall for a major new building. A design contest was
won by Eero Saarinen, who later designed the terminal
at Dulles International Airport, but his plans were voted
down by the regents as too modern.

Unfortunately, all efforts to obtain construction funds
from Congress collapsed when rumors began to cir-
culate that Andrew Mellon might donate a building for
an art gallery. This was a setback to Holmes, for al-
though nothing came of this rumor during his lifetime,
it effectively stopped all other public support. By 1930
the gallery staff consisted of only himself and three
assistants. In 1926 his left leg had to be amputated, but
Holmes returned to his office. A few years later he was
permitted to take a Civil Service examination and to
continue on the government payroll long after most
employees retire. On June 30, 1932, the day when
Holmes finally did retire, he wrote in his “Random
Records”: “In his 85th year he is still at his desk in the
National Gallery of Art.”” Ruel P. Tolman succeeded
him; ten months iater Holmes was dead.

Andrew Mellon’s Offer

Eventually Andrew Mellon did offer the nation both
money and paintings for a National Gallery of Art. This
resulted in the impressive domed building that stretches
from Fourth to Seventh streets on Constitution Avenue,
vaguely resembling the Natural History Building but
built of light marble rather than somber granite. To
make sure that nothing complicated the offer from

43
A temporary exhibit in Hall
10, hung on low screens in
front of the permanent col-

lection. This could be a show
of local artists, possibly from
the 1930s or 1940s.

Mellon, the art holdings of the Smithsonian were re-
named the National Collection of Fine Arts (NCFA) in
1937;

During the first decade of Holmes’s tenure, in spite
of restricted space, the National Gallery developed a
series Of temporary exhibits and continued to receive
donations; at One point a sculptor worked publicly as
a special exhibit.” The accumulating art more than filled
the “art hall” off the rotunda. By 1930 it included, in

part, the Alfred Duane Pell collection of “art objects of
varied types and much interest,” and several groups of

historical portraits.

“The visitor finds himself face to face with many of

the outstanding personages of the great war,” Holmes
wrote of one group, “kings, queens, presidents, sol-
diers, statesmen, and others—whose faces and achieve-
ments are familiar to the peoples of every civilized na-

tion.” There were also a “collection of portraits of

survivors of the Civil War painted from life by Walter
Beck 50 years after the close of the war[;]... the John
Elliot collection of portraits of young Americans who
entered the air service of France before the United
States had decided to take part in the struggle [World
War I]... anda very interesting collection of sketches
of prominent World War personages made by John C.
Johansen for use in executing his great work, the ‘Sign-
ing of the Peace Treaty, June 28, 1919°”" which oc-
cupied the west wall of the lobby. The lobby also con-
tained many pieces of sculpture and some other paintings.

For those interested in origins, the work of the Na-

tional Portrait Committee in assembling paintings of

World War I personages marked the dim beginnings
of the National Portrait Gallery. The Pell collection,

/

44

with its numerous glass and porcelain objects, gave a
real stimulus to what eventually became the Division of
Ceramics and Glass in the National Museum of History
and Technology. Meanwhile, for a natural history
building, the new National Museum became increas-
ingly eclectic. ‘he sculpture-crammed lobby scarcely
hinted of natural history, and since 1923 war portraits
had intruded into one of the second-floor halls.'°

In 1929 the National Gallery obtained the John Gel-
latly collection, which in 1933 was moved to Washington
to be displayed intact as it had been in the donor’s New
York home. The collections grew at a slower rate after
this major bequest, and while the gallery and later the
National Collection sponsored temporary exhibits in
the ground-floor foyer, the main exhibits changed very
little. In the spring of 1956 the National Collection held
a fiftieth-anniversary show of turn-of-the-century
paintings from the important William T. Evans collec-
tion. But despite their best efforts, the staff of the Na-
tional Collection had not made much progress toward
becoming a real gallery.

The Catlin Paintings

By 1963 the National Collection of Fine Arts, with a
total staff of ten people, still had little official contact
with the Museum. However, the National Collection
was the keeper of the Catlin paintings, perhaps the
single most important collection of western Indian eth-
nography in the world. Catlin paintings were on exhibit
in several halls; they hung above the elevator doors,
and all over the third-floor walls wherever there was a
small empty space. Wherever there was a large empty
space, something romantic in a gilt frame was hung.

The Structure
Exhibit of the Ranger
Collection, 1929, in the
National Gallery-National
Museum, north hall. Direc-_ |
tor William Henry Holmes
holds onto a bench to support
has single leg. Louise
Rosenbusch, research, is also
standing. The other two
employees of the National
Gallery of Art are the clerks
Helen Hogen and Glenn
Martin, seated at the desk.

The storage area in the east north range was also
overflowing, and anyone in the Museum who had office
wall space and wanted a painting could have one. Sev-
eral people had original Holmes drawings on loan. Dur-
ing the 1930s, the building superintendent had a nude
hanging in his office. For about twenty years J.H.F. van
Lerius’s melodramatic Death Preferred, now the center-
piece of the Renwick Gallery, was in the paleobotanical
library of the Geological Survey. The diaphanously-
clad maiden jumping from a window to escape the
clutches of ruffians attracted a number of visitors not
interested in plants.

Three Buildings Acquired
After half a century, change was in the air. The old
Patent Office Building, a few blocks northeast of the
Museum, was turned over to the Smithsonian in 1958
as a gallery site.'' Barney Studio House, on Massachu-
setts Avenue, became an outlying part of the NCFA in
1960. In 1962 the National Portrait Gallery was formed,
and in 1968 both art museums were installed in their
new home in the Old Patent Office building. Next, the
NCFA acquired the building at Seventeenth Street and
Pennsylvania Avenue, NW, near the White House, now
known as the Renwick Gallery. As the final step of this
story, the NCFA was retitled the National Museum of
American Art in 1980.

During the mid-1960s, the displays in the north wing
of the Natural History Building were gradually dis-
mantled and transferred to the newly renovated Patent

The National Gallery of Art

Office Building, between Seventh and Ninth streets on
F and G streets, NW. For several years temporary ex-
hibits were still hung in the foyer of the National Mu-
seum, and there were several special exhibitions in Hall
10, the last being in 1969. Thereafter, the whole build-
ing reverted to natural history. Yet after all, there was
nothing so strange in the long cohabitation of natural
history and art. Many major museums, for example the
National Museum of Wales, have objects of natural
history and oljets d’art under the same roof; and no one
has ever been able to draw a precise line between art
and ethnography.

In spite of some objections by the anthropologists,
the Catlin paintings left the building, for by official
decision they are art, even though the Department of
Anthropology holds title to them. By contrast, John
Elliott’s Diana of the Tides remained behind. This is a
huge painting, one of the original holdings of the old
National Gallery of Art. For years it occupied the east
wall of the dinosaur hall because there was no other
place to hang it. When the hall was refurbished, the
mural was boxed over and hidden from view. When
the hall was modified again in the 1970s, rediscovery
of the forgotten mural provided a minor sensation.
Diana is still hanging in the same place, again hidden
from view. Perhaps the National Museum of American
Art hopes the National Museum of Natural History will
forget where it is or who owns it. Aesthetics aside, the
practical fact is that murals twenty-five feet high and
very long are awkward to display. Oo

45
Chapter 6

Affiliated
Organizations

T IS WELL KNOWN THAT THE Smithsonian Institution

helped focus scientific endeavors that eventually re-
sulted in the founding of various government scientific
agencies. The Weather Service is cited as the classic
example, but similar developments occurred in natural
history. The “museum community” includes many in-
dividuals who are in the Museum but not of it, and for
the first fifty years at least, about half of the scientists
and support staff in the new building were paid by
other government organizations.

Most people both inside and outside the building are
still unaware of any distinction between Museum mem-
bers and those of associated agencies, the primary dif-
ference often being the day on which they are paid.
The ultimate confusion occurred a few years ago when
an assistant secretary of the Department of the Interior
wrote the Secretary of the Smithsonian, congratulating
him ona staff publication that would be of considerable
use to his department. The item, it turned out, was one
prepared by Interior Department employees within the
Museum.

Geological Survey

The easiest administrative history to follow is that of

the U.S. Geological Survey. After the Civil War, the
tradition of government-supported exploration of the
western United States resulted in four simultaneous
territorial surveys.’ In addition to making maps and
studying the rocks, they followed the pattern of earlier
government explorations by examining, to varying de-
grees, other aspects of natural history. Eventually sev-
eral of the survey parties crossed paths in the field.
Congress rectified what was judged to be duplication
of effort by discontinuing three of the surveys; the
fourth, a survey of the fortieth parallel, had been fin-
ished.

John Wesley Powell in his office in the Bureau of
Ethnology on F Street, 1894 or earlier. Explorer of the
Grand Canyon, first director of the Bureau of Ethnology,
and second director of the Geological Survey, Powell is
representative of all the American scientists who were and
are affiliated with the Museum.

In March 1879, the United States Geological Survey
was created, under the Department of the Interior, to
carry on the geological facets of this work in a more
systematic manner. The same act, the Sundry Civil Ex-
pense Bill, also ood the Bureau of Ethnology and
placed it under the jurisdiction of the Smithsonian.”
John Wesley Powell, who had explored the Colorado
River and had headed one of the four territorial sur-
veys, became the director of the bureau. The U.S. Geo-
logical Survey was organized with Clarence King as
director, but within two years he left. Powell became
director of that agency as well, and rode both horses
for thirteen years.

Within the section of the act establishing the Geo-
logical Survey appears the following sentence: “And all
collections of rocks, minerals, soils, and fossils, and ob-

jects of natural history, archaeology, and ethnology,

made by the Coast and Interior Survey, the Geological
Survey, or by any other parties for the Government of
the United States, when no longer needed for inves-
tigations in progress, shall be deposited in the National
Museum.”* This is potentially a powerful piece of law-
making; tradition ascribes its wording to Powell. Assis-
tant Secretary Baird had always maintained—an ar-
guable point—that the congressional action establishing
the Smithsonian had made it the keeper of the nation’s
collections. The wording of the 1879 law expunged
doubt as to the final destination of all federal collec-
tions. It also established tangible bonds between the
Museum and a group of other organizations.

The Geological Survey made its headquarters in the
National Museum when the brick building opened in
1881, but in a few years the director moved to the Hooe
Iron Building, on F Street between Thirteenth and
Fourteenth. Laboratories had been set up in the north-
east tower of the National Museum, so the chemists and
physicists stayed a few years longer. But the paleon-
tologists in residence at the Museum stayed put, with
their ever-increasing collections, because of the diffi-
culty of moving so many fossils. As the Survey grew,
more paleontologists were added to the staff in the
Hooe Building, and their collections were kept there
because of tight quarters in the National Museum. As
soon as the new National Museum opened, some of the
Geological Survey paleontologists moved into it from
the brick building and the Hooe Building. ‘To this day,
more than a dozen Geological Survey paleontologists
remain in the Museum.

Commission on Fish and Fisheries
In 1871, eight years before the Geological Survey took
shape, the U.S. Commission on Fish and Fisheries was
organized. This was a brainchild of Secretary Baird,
who ran it at no extra salary until his death. He settled
the commission in the former armory at Seventh and
B streets, SW, and developed additional laboratories in
other parts of the country, the most famous of which
was at Woods Hole, Massachusetts. The Armory build-
ing, which continued to be used for storage of Museum
collections for decades, lay in a line with the Army
Medical Museum, the original National Museum, and
the Castle, so there was plenty of communication be-
tween the Smithsonian buildings and the Commission.
Shortly after the turn of the century, the Fish Com-
mission became the Bureau of Fisheries under the De-
partment of Commerce and Labor.* “Technical studies
yield valuable data for the fishing industry,” a later
article explained. “The life habits of fish and the changes
in the abundance of various kinds of fish are studied.
An efficient fish ladder for the upstream migrations of
the salmon and other fish was developed in cooperation
with the states and the industry. The Bureau’s aid to
the pearl button and goldfish industries will long be
remembered.” Smile though one may at the last sen-
tence, the scientists of the bureau performed many
economically useful investigations. In the course of their
activities, the staff of the commission and the bureau
collected numerous fishes, most of which were saved
for the collections.

48

E. O. Ulrich, paleontologist
of the U.S. Geological Sur-
vey, in has frrst office in the
Hooe Building, 1901.

In 1939 the Bureau of Fisheries was transferred to
the Interior Department, joining the Biological Survey,
transferred to Interior from Agriculture the same year.
In 1940 both were absorbed into the Fish and Wildlife
Service, which in 1956 became the U.S. Fish and Wild-
life Service. The former Fish Commission was parti-
toned into the Bureau of Sports Fisheries and the Bu-
reau of Commercial Fisheries, with the latter eventually
returning to the jurisdiction of the Department of Com-
merce.

As the events of World War II disrupted Washington,
the Old Armory was torn down to make room for tem-
porary buildings. (The west end of the National Air
and Space Museum now occupies the site.) In 1942 the
collections of fish and a few ichthyologists were moved
into the north side of the south wing on the ground
level of the National Museum. Part of the area was
temporarily decked over to make more office space,
and one bureau employee was placed in a former la-
trine. The fisheries collections were integrated with those
of the Division of Fishes—the bureau collections were
substanually larger.

Today the Commerce Department is represented in
the Museum building by a few people on the ground
floor who do a great deal of scientific work affecting
what food we gather from the seas. They enjoy the
dubious pleasure of walking on the only original wooden
floors remaining in the building. Just to complicate
things a little more, or perhaps to show the breadth of
the applied-science community, the National System-
atics Laboratory of the Department of Commerce used
to include a malacologist (a student of the clams and
snails), housed on the third floor in the Division of
Mollusks. Currently this organization includes, in ad-
dition to fish specialists, a “shrimp woman” and a “crab
man” with offices in the Division of Crustacea.

The Structure
An oblique vie
south side of the Mall, the Army Medical Museum (now

replaced by the Hirshhorn Museum) stood on the site of the

Armory, used for storage. The Bureau of Fisheries site is
now under the National Air and Space Museum. The
compiler has left out the courtyards of the Natural History
Building, while towers and turrets on the Arts and
Industries Building and on the Castle have been extended
considerably. To the north of the Castle, the Freer Gallery,

Affiliated Organizations

ees Se Fag
lt; EN
PRD 0 | ee te

PU |

Vyas PAD iss
oo Ot OD
nytt

“r
MAN

by

Department of Agriculture, with experimental plantings
where the National Museum of American History now

stands. The Mall was not as heavily wooded as shown, but

did have far more trees than today. (From Washington,
the Beautiful Capital of the Nation, copyright 1922 by
William Olsen, National Aero-View Publishing Company,
Washington, D.C.)

49
Department of Agriculture

The relationships of the Department of Agriculture to
the Smithsonian Institution and to the National Mu-
seum have been even more involved. For many years
the United States National Herbarium was in the Smith-
sonian Castle, and scientific papers generated by those
who studied the collection were published by the Mu-
seum. However, at that time the employees in the her-
barium were mostly from the Department of Agricul-
ture. All other Smithsonian plant collections and the
few paid Museum botanists were jammed into the her-
barium space, perhaps the most crowded area of a
crowded institution. That remarkable student of the
grasses Agnes Chase, in whom the Smithsonian took
just pride for many years, was an employee of the De-
partment of Agriculture, as was A. S. Hitchcock, whom
she came to assist.

Although the new Natural History Building was
“commodious,” for some reason the plant collections
were not moved to new quarters there. If it was thought
advantageous for the herbarium to remain in the Cas-
tle, just east of the Department of Agriculture, perhaps
it seemed just as well for the Museum’s botanical ma-
terial and staff to stay there too. In 1947 the Museum’s
Department of Biology was divided into departments
of Botany and Zoology. But even so, the staff of Botany
and their collections were not transferred. They and
the Department of Agriculture botanists remained
somewhat isolated until the west wing was added to the
Natural History Building in the 1960s.

Government Entomology

The Department of Agriculture, founded in 1862, not
only predated the Fish Commission but had a far broader
mission in the natural history realm. ‘Phe relationship
of insects to crops is so obvious that Townsend Glover,
the first government entomologist, was on the scene in
the 1840s, as an employee of the Patent Office. How-
ever, government entomology did not really become
noticeable until 1878, when its few practitioners were
organized into a Division of Entomology and C. V. Riley
arrived from Missouri. A most forceful personality, Ri-
ley was compelled to leave office once, but with a change
in administration he returned to run the organization
until 1894, when he was given the option of resigning
or being fired.

The insect collection of the Museum had been widely
distributed to various specialists throughout the coun-
try. Riley offered his Department of Agriculture col-
lections to the Museum on the condition that it establish
a position for someone to study insects; the Museum
complied. A few years later Riley donated his private
collection. These two actions were the key building blocks
of the insect collections of the Museum. Both Riley and
his successor, L. O. Howard, were honorary curators
in the Department of Biology.°

In 1894 the old brick Beiber Building, behind and

50

to the east of Department of Agriculture headquarters,
became vacant. Entomology moved there, along with
the Biological Survey.’ This location, to the west of the
Castle, was only a few minutes’ walk from the National
Museum. It is not clear whether any entomologists were
housed in the brick Museum, but with space so limited
there, it seems unlikely.

At the turn of the century, much of the work of the
Bureau of Entomology was directed toward control of
economically harmful insects. Later, Howard wrote,
“work on even more fundamental aspects was begun,
such as the physiology of insects and their reactions.
And it was found necessary to enlarge the facilities of
the Bureau in its taxonomic work. This work, consisting
of the accurate identification of insects, has ... been
of the most important help to the more strictly eco-
nomic workers of the Department of Agriculture; and

.. of the different State Experiment Stations and Ag-
ricultural Colleges. . .. Demands have been [so] great
from institutions throughout the States, [that the] Mu-
seum force of the Bureau will undoubtedly be en-
larged.””

Howard’s annual reports do not mention the location
of staff members, but according to C. F. W. Muesebeck,
a long-retired specialist on parasitic wasps, Department
of Agriculture entomologists—not including How-
ard—were in residence in the Museum by 1910. Not
everyone was happy with the arrangements. A. A. Gi-
rault grumbled in a paper, “This work was done in
Bedlam, that 1s, the Insect Section, U.S. National Mu-
seum at Washington, a place unfit for scholarship.” At
peak staffing, in 1942, the systematic entomologists of
the Department of Agriculture numbered twenty-eight
specialists, twenty-one aides, and four typists.'° Al-
though most of the systematic entomologists have re-
mained at the Museum, some moved first to the main
building of the Department of Agriculture and later to
the Agricultural Research Center at Beltsville, Mary-
land.

Biological Survey

The Biological Survey originally came into the De-
partment of Agriculture in 1885 as the Economic Or-
nithology section of Riley’s Entomology Division. Started
through the efforts of yet another scientific entrepre-
neur, C. Hart Merriam, the enterprise was promoted
one year later to Division of Economic Ornithology and
Mammalogy. In 1896 it became the Division of Bio-
logical Survey, and in 1905 the Biological Survey at-
tained bureau status. Under Merriam its work was mostly
on systematics, distribution, and life history of animals,
for although he had begun as an ornithologist, Merriam
devoted increasing amounts of time to mammals. The
Biological Survey eventually did a few studies of rep-
tiles, but its strength was in birds and mammals, with
a particular concern toward developing the concept of
animal and plant distribution by climatic life zone.

The Structure
Entimoligieal workers, U. S. ee Wee May 21, 1925. Miner 8 is L. 0. Howard, chief of the Baa of
Entomology. Of the twenty-eight people shown, apparently none was paid by the Museum.

Merriam never got on well with Congress or with
most of his subordinates, and in 1910 he retired. When
the new Museum building was occupied, the Biological
Survey ornithologists moved to the third floor of the
north wing and the mammalogists to the west range on
the ground floor. ‘The collections of the Biological Sur-
vey since its inception had been stored in the Museum,
but were maintained as a separate series until the 1940s.

The major objectives of the Biological Survey were
changed. Studies of bird-insect relationships were dis-
continued. Game management and predator control
became more important, and the taxonomic work re-
ceived less emphasis. Like the Fish Commission, the
Biological Survey changed in name and moved from
one government department to another. However, tax-
onomy still has its place; today the U.S. Fish and Wild-
life Service of the Department of the Interior includes
a Museum section to support such work at the Museum
of Natural History."' It is administered out of Denver,
but that is hardly more illogical than administering the
systematic entomologists from a Beltsville, Maryland,
office, or the Commerce Department taxonomists from
Woods Hole, Massachusetts.

If other agencies did not mention having employees
in the Museum, the annual reports of the National
Museum, by the same token, almost never mentioned

Affiliated Organizations

the activities of others in the building, except the mu-
seum work of those who were honorary staff members.
There seems to be no written agreement that the Mu-
seum would provide space for these other scientists,
yet the arrangement has worked well for more than a
century. Washington bureaucracy is replete with fights
over turf and office space, but one cannot tell from the
size, location, or quality of an individual Museum office
who works for which federal agency.

Bureau of Ethnology

Although the Bureau of Ethnology was under the
Smithsonian Institution, it functioned independently,
and never had employees in the new Natural History
Building. Founded in 1877, it flourished for some years
in the Adams Building on F Street, NW, just across
from the Geological Survey. Offices became available
in the Castle as a result of transfers to the new Museum
building, and in 1910 the bureau, which had been re-
titled the Bureau of American Ethnology (BAE) in 1894,
moved to the Mall.

Because the bureau had a separate budget and be-
cause ethnographic material was popular with Con-
gress, many outstanding publications were produced.
Perhaps the best known was BAE Bulletin 30, Handbook
of American Indians North of Mexico, which was edited by

CIC
Roland W. Brown, a paleo-
botanist with the U.S. Geo-
logical Survey, at his desk in
“Stone Hall” in December
1958. The wooden desk and
gooseneck lamp were stan-
dard equipment of the time;
above are Sears Roebuck
catalogues into which Dr.
Brown pasted newspaper
clippings of interest. Brown
owned only a single pair of
shoes, shown here, which he
cobbled himself. The manu-
script of his book The
Composition of Scientific
Words zs on the windowsill.

\

!
\\
\

_—__—
ee pee =
=a =
=a el ao.
a | . = =
za B@ =
Eat ie
Re =>
= * @ cs an
> Saae a =
=. 33 a -
= + ow —_ =
~ eat =

-_ =
Eis a

E- =>
== ta = Ff
Renee = - = =
= TE —a™, =
=
=

S.H. Mamay, a paleobotanist with the U.S. Geological steel cases. Stone slabs about two inches thick and up to
Survey, working in “Stone Hall,” probably in the mid- eight feet long are attached to the wall and extend above the
1950s. Behind him are three-foot wooden cases atop six-foot top of the cases.

52 The Structure
( te a ren A

John Paridoso, a biologist with the Fish and Wildlife Service, measuring wolf skulls (Canis), with caribou (Rangifer)

be. 4
eet

— As

hanging above. The photograph was taken before 1964 in the Fish and Wildlife area of the west range, ground floor.

F. W. Hodge during the first decade of this century.
More than a third of a century later, Bulletin 143, the
Handbook of South American Indians, was completed.

Although relationships between the Department of
Anthropology and the BAE had been strong when
Holmes ran both, they gradually became less satisfac-
tory. In addition, for the last half of its lifetime the
staff of the bureau dwindled, and in July, 1964, it was
merged with the Museum’s Department of Anthro-
pology to form the Smithsonian’s Office of Anthro-
pology.'* At that time its scientific staff of three an-
thropologists moved to the Museum of Natural History.
During the early 1970s, a major revision of the Hand-
book of American Indians North of Mexico was undertaken.
William Sturtevant, one of the last former BAE em-
ployees on the departmental staff, is in charge of the
project, whose budget is distinct from that of the de-
partment.

Affiliated Organizations

Systematics Continues
In the current government science community, system-
atics—the differentiation of species, their naming and
classification—is given less significance than in the past,
in spite of its obvious application to the nation’s envi-
ronment, food, and fuel. There have been staff in-
creases for natural history positions in the Departments
of Agriculture, Commerce, and the Interior, but they
are slight compared to total growth of these agencies.

However, the old tradition of the Museum as the
place to do systematics for the federal government re-
mains. During the early 1960s the Department of the
Army joined the club of associated agencies by housing
a Southeast Asia Mosquito Project in the Museum. The
outside world still confuses the staff members of the
affiliated agencies with those of the Museum, and the
Museum continues to provide space for these allied
scientists and their valuable collections.

So)
oo
Part Two

The
Exhibits

ry 4

teh
Chapter 7

New Exhibits,
New Offices

ad WHEN THE NEW NATIONAL MUSEUM opened
is a minor point for debate, since the building first
served as a meeting place in 1908; collections were first
stored in unfinished halls early in 1909; and the main
floor of the north wing was first opened to visitors on
March 17, 1910. This last date, marking its public de-
but, seems the best one to pick as the building’s official
birthday.

Over the next year, “only the remaining part of the
space allotted to ethnology and consisting of the north-
ern sections of the east and west ranges on the same
floor were made accessible,” but in 1911 and 1912 “much
greater progress was shown,”' especially in the area of
exhibits. While safety dictated steel- or metal-covered
storage cases as soon as they could be obtained, aes-
thetics, in the head curator’s view, dictated wooden
display cases. These were traditional for more than half
a century, and because the Museum provided plans
and specifications for many other new or changing mu-
seums, similar display cases were seen throughout the
country.

Although much of the work had to be contracted out,
many of the new display cases were built by the car-
pentry and cabinet shops in the new National Museum.
Mr. Cole, who had been chief carpenter for Secretary
Langley’s effort to build a man-carrying aircraft, moved
in to take charge, and the sawing of mahogany and
pine wafted a pleasant smell through a large part of
the ground floor. Dark mahogany was standard for all

Hall of Archeology of Mexico, Central and South America
on the second floor (Hall 26), taken from the stairs looking
south. Those are calendar stones in the foreground and on
the wall to the right. The glyphs on that wall are Mayan,
and the cases contain Aztec pottery. Behind the calendar
stone is a model of the Castillo at Chichén Itza, and behind
that, partly in the shadow, is Coatlique, main mother
goddess of the Aztecs. The Mayan stele behind it is from
Capan, Honduras. Because the models of the Serpent
columns, which were at the door of the Castillo, are not
pended in the hall, this view probably was taken before
1924.

57

display cases in all the halls. When these were com-
pleted, the shop spent decades building wooden storage
cases that were then covered in the sheet-metal shop
and sent off to the curators, who could never get enough
of them. By 1912 the three Smithsonian buildings con-
tained “2,724 exhibition cases of all kinds and sizes,
a storage cases and pieces of laboratory furniture,

2,800 pieces of office and miscellaneous furniture, 32,976
unit specimens
of steel, 6,839 insect drawers, and 13,253 mis-

unit specimen drawers of wood, 4,712
drawers
cellaneous specimens drawers and boxes of various
sizes.”>

About a year after the building opened, the new
Museum experimented with the concept of opening
for half a day on Sundays, and the public loved it. On
October 15, 1911, a local paper reported: “The New
National Museum will have its second Sunday opening
today. The program is a more inviting one than that
which attracted 15,000 to the institution at the initial
Sunday opening a week ago for two new exhibits have
been installed and several of the old ones have been
repaired and rearranged. The museum’s corps of tax-
idermists, preparators and cabinet makers have been
busily engaged since Monday transferring and com-
pleting the exhibits.

“Zoology and paleontology,” the article continued,
“is the subject matter of the two new exhibits, which
have been located on the first and second floors of the
buildings. It is announced that the rotunda on the first
floor will be open, as will the east hall of that floor and
the northern part of the west range on the second floor.
It is in these rooms that the zoological and paleonto-
logical exhibits will be displayed.”

Installing the new exhibits was hard work, and George
Perkins Merrill remarked: “At best the head of a de-
partment or division has not been able to depend on
more than a moiety of each day for research, and in
times when exhibits are in preparation he has been
obliged to dispense with even that. There are few forms
of literary work, it must be added, that require greater
care than that of label writing. To be able to state con-
cisely and clearly the essential facts concerning an object
Part of the Hall of Building
Stones (Hall 20), on the
north side of the east wing,
second floor, showing two
exhibit cases with a slab
attached to the wall between
them. The cases were about
eight feet tall, so that it was
difficult to see the upper
shelf. In the early days, the
paint shop was in charge of
removing the glass if a cura-
tor had to get into a case.

is by no means an easy task as everyone knows who has
made the attempt. If the label is too long it will not be
read; if too short it is not sufficiently explicit.”
Merrill noted that the Department of Geology, unlike
Biology or Anthropology, was tending “toward open
installation with the main aisle through the center of
each hall, or if utilized for display of objects, only such
as can readily be seen over and around. In short the
aim has been to so arrange the cases and isolated objects,
that a visitor can, in making continuous progress through
the hall see readily on either hand every individual
object on display.”’ He added that “the paleobotanical
exhibit has proven with us as is almost universally the
case with other museums, the most difficult of all to

6

make interesting and attractive.

Exhibit Challenges—and Problems
A 1913 document chronicled the concerns of the Di-
vision of Mineralogy and Petrology. There and else-
where in the Museum, exhibit technique was not nearly
so sophisucated as today. (“The labels employed are on
herbarium board. Gray board was preferred by the
Assistant Curator, but was not adopted because two-
thirds of the labels had been previously printed on the
herbarium board.”)’ But the problems that the curators
faced with tourists and exhibit maintenance were com-
parable to those of later generations:

The average visitor spends so little time in each

hall, that every effort must be made to secure his

attention and the exhibition has been designed to

attract attention and create interest, as well as

supply information. ... The cases are fairly dust
proof and thus far the specimens have remained
clean; in the course of time, however, sufficient
dust will filter in to cause the specimens to require
cleaning. This period can be deferred somewhat
by care on the part of the one in charge to secure
adequate cleaning of the cases with the vacuum
cleaner. ... Every effort should be made also to
force the operators to keep the tops of the cases
clean, a difficult task as they are apt to overlook all
points not directly visible. The tops of the cases
should be inspected also to note if the top glass
becomes loosened, in which event special
opportunity for access will be given the dust.

The enormously popular gem collection, which could
not “be given too great prominence, or too much at-
tention,” was arranged

in seven table top cases down the center of the
hall. It is believed that the sage-green velours
lining to the cases is the most suitable that can be
secured. Unfortunately it fades; this objection
would hold for any other fabric or color. The
white silk pads are also satisfactory but those now
employed were used in the old building and are
not especially fresh and clean, and in a few years
will have to be renewed.*

Not all exhibits were simple. William Henry Holmes
did a great deal more than install the National Gallery
of Art, and in some ways was the star of the new Mu-

The Exhibits
West end of Hall of Geology
and Meteoritics (Hall 6) in
the 1920s or 1930s. In the
cases to the left are igneous

rocks, most trimmed to uni-
form rectangular shapes. The
meteorites are to the right,

but the largest specimen, in
the foreground, is a plaster
cast of a Mexican specimen.

Tourists would touch the cast
and then chip a piece away,
so that it continually had to
be repaired with black paint.

Eventually director Wetmore

was persuaded to discard
the cast.

seum’s show, earning accolades for his ingenuity with
ethnological exhibits. His “scheme for getting these
changing peoples on record,” as a Washington news-
paper article observed, had first been displayed at the
1893 World’s Fair at Chicago, and is now in use in
practically all the great museums of the world. This
new idea of the American ethnologist was to crystallize
into permanent form a family group of all the impor-
tant people. This group should be cast, life size, into
some permanent material. The members that go to
make up the group should be shown at their customary
activities. They should be clad as when seen at home.
The scene should be set as though the pages of history
were turned back to the time when the people lived
untrammeled by a higher civilization and foreshad-
owed by higher peculiarities of the time and place they
formerly occupied. .. . Dr. Holmes is a scientist and an
artist. He is one of the great men in ethnology in
America.”
Rathbun described the arrangement of the exhibits
in detail:
Many paintings of Indians from the Catlin
collection and other sources were hung, and a
large series of transparencies of Indian subjects
were placed in the windows of the halls. he totem
poles and other carvings and paintings of the
northwest coast tribes, with the exception of the
Haida house front and its associated totem poles,
were installed at the south end of the middle hall,
where they make a striking display. In the

New Exhibits, New Offices

arrangement of the collection from the Pueblo
region it was found advisable to separate the
antiquities from the ethnological material proper,
with which they have heretofore been associated,
and they have been transferred to the division of
prehistoric archeology. The construction of lay
figure groups progressed rapidly, and seven full-
sized groups of this character were added to the
exhibition.

The exhibits of this division are assembled
primarily by geographic area, and the peoples and
their cultures, so far as represented, may be thus
studied in much the same order that the peoples
themselves might be visited by the traveler. Under
these headings the classification is by nations or
tribes, and by special exhibition units illustrating
culture as follows: tribal area, synoptic series of
artifacts, family groups, industrial groups,
individual figures, pictorial exhibits, and sculptural
exhibits. Of the 16 full sized lay figure groups that
have been planned the following 12 are finished
and on view, namely the Eskimo, Chilkat, Hupa,
Cocopa, Zuni, Sioux, Virginia, Tehuelche, Samoan,
Negrito, the arrow makers, and the snake dance.'°

Neil M. Judd, newly hired in 1911 as an aide in
ethnology, remembered the exhibits well from a dif-
ferent perspective.

The new building with over ten acres of floor

space had been completed externally in 1910, but

the interior plaster was not yet dry when orders

59
Hall of Eskimo and Indian Groups (Hall 9). ae
paintings by George Catlin are on the wall above the cases;
Eskimo clothing is in the foreground and Indian clothing is
m the distance. Probably post-1930, judging from the light
fixtures.

a dla

The Piney Branch Quarry Indian group, to the bes
discussed and illlustrated in the Smithsonian ae rae
Annual Report for 1920. The case behind, mainly
hidden, holds the Hopi snake dancers. Holmes’s work at this

quarry in Washington, D.C., brought him world fame and
cast new light on the manufacture of stone tools. In his

Random Records” is another photograph of this group,
with a notation that someone had moved it to the second
floor without consulting him. After the move, furthermore,
the area surrounding the figures was strewn with water-
worn cobbles rather than flakes of broken stone. Holmes was
furious.

60

came to rush the exhibits. . . .

The “new” National Museum was individualistic,
unlike any other. It was entirely up to date. With
larger-than-usual exhibition spaces, special
furniture had to be designed. In archaeology, for
halls with twenty-foot ceilings and windows on
both sides, four kinds of cases were provided:
those fixed in position against a wall; caster-
equipped “floor” cases four feet wide by eight feet
long and eight feet high; “double-slope-top” cases
with storage drawers beneath; and “narrow flat-
top” cases, likewise on rollers and with storage
facilities. Each was precisely like every other of its
kind, and each was allotted a predetermined space,
row upon row. Wall cases and floor cases were
equipped with adjustable shelves, but it took two
strong men to lift their great plate-glass fronts.
They were all very modern. And every glass-front
case was a mirror reflecting every other case and
its contents. ‘hose were parsimonious times at the
National Museum. We lacked competent assistants
and adequate equipment. But somehow the work
was done. ... As the task progressed, we begged
from colleagues in other halls and improvised
when other means failed. From sheer necessity we
continued to use handmade pasteboard boxes and
trays, salvaged from the “old” museum [and] red-
stained wood trays made to fit the old walnut
exhibition cases... .

Three halls with 216 exhibition cases on nearly
35,000 square feet of floor space were reserved for
Western Hemisphere archaeology—from the
Arctic to the Antarctic. Under Prof. Holmes’
supervision those 216 cases were my responsibility;
filling them in a hurry my job. ... There was no
tume to mark and describe individual specimens.
They were unpacked and immediately put in
exhibition cases, and the contents of those cases
became visible storage not to be changed
appreciably for forty years."

Biology Exhibits

The Department of Biology encountered the most chal-
lenges in installing material, for the subject matter to
be exhibited was far more diverse than that of Geology
or even Anthropology. Display of specimens was also
more difficult—there were serious problems of pro-
tection against pests and deterioration. After the build-
ing opened, an unanticipated change had to be made
in the halls themselves when the ground window glass
proved insufficient to protect the colors of the speci-
mens from sunlight. The enormous windows, each con-
taining two movable panes that had to be kept open in
warm weather, were fitted with a complicated system
of curtains. “The main curtains on the first floor, of
unbleached muslin, reach from the window top to the
upper level of the ventilating openings and are followed

The Exhibits
Indian exhibit—Hopr snake dance. This group too 1s
discussed and illustrated in the Annual Report for 1920.
To take the photograph—probably in the 1910s or 1920s,
for the model behind this case is not on a stand—the sides

by shorter curtains.”'* A third set of curtains, black,
was drawn after closing time as extra protection for the
mammal and bird exhibits.

Shortly after the exhibits work began, F. W. True,
the head of Biology, was promoted by Secretary Walcott
to Assistant Secretary in charge of library and ex-
changes, and on June 1, 1911, Leonhard Stejneger took
over. Stejneger had had less experience with exposi-
tions than Holmes and Merrill, who in a sense had
stockpiled some displays, but he kept things moving.
Because “a satisfactory display of plant life present[s]
difficulties which have not yet been worked out,”'” (to
this day the Museum has not developed a major bo-
tanical display), Biology’s exhibits related to zoology
only. Even without botany, they occupied a large num-
ber of halls.

“The first story is devoted to the mounted skins of

mammals and birds arranged faunally,” Rathbun wrote,
“the latter group occupying the [west] range and a por-
tion of the north hall of the [west] wing. . . . The Amer-
ican mammals, consisting principally of North Amer-

New Exhibits, New Offices

and back of the case were covered with fabric to cut down
on reflection and to mask adjacent cases. The display is in
Hall 11 in the west north range, first floor.

ican representatives, have been assigned to the large
skylighted hall, the African mammals to the outer end
of the wing, and the Australian and oriental mammals
the south hall, while the palearctic fauna will share the
north hall with the birds. Pending their arrangement
a few large mammals mounted separately on pedestals
have been exhibited in the rotunda.”

William T. Hornaday

One of the major items transferred to the central sky-
lighted Hall 16 of the west wing—the site of the tem-
porary Freer exhibit—was the group of six buffalo that
Wiliam T. Hornaday had mounted in 1888. One of
the finest taxidermists of his generation and the person
most to be credited for the founding of the National
Zoological Park, Hornaday had personally shot three
of the specimens in one of the last buffalo hunts in the
United States. He was one of the first, if not the first,
to develop the notion of placing specimens in natural
settings, and he had brought back sufficient material
from Montana to provide a realistic environment. (“The

61
group, with its accessories, has been prepared so as to
tell... the general visitor... the story of the buffalo,
but care has been taken ... to secure an accuracy of
detail that will satisfy the critical scrutny of the most
technical naturalist.”)'” Unfortunately, Hornaday had
clashed with Langley and left in 1897; the new exhibits
could have used him. ‘Taxidermy was so important to
the department that for a few years there was a de-
partmental position of chief of exhibits, at that time the
only official recognition of exhibition design within the
establishment.

Graced by Hornaday’s newly mounted specimens, an
African buffalo group, and some individual African
specimens Theodore Roosevelt had collected after leav-
ing the White House, the mammal hall was formally
opened on April 22, 1913. Some of the biological ex-
hibits on the second floor had already opened the pre-
vious year; others were sull being worked on. By the
end of June the entire area allotted to natural history—
the wings and ranges in the first and second stories—
was open to the public.

During the following year, Rathbun noted, “the di-
vision of plants has for the first ume been represented
to the public by an exhibition of flower studies in water
color ... embrac{ing] a wide range of domestic and
foreign plants as well as cultivated varieties.”'” There
sull were many cases to be installed, but the dramatic
phase of opening new halls was over. Because a great
deal of space was now open in the old brick Museum,
much of the Annual Report was devoted to the change
of exhibits there.

It was a phenomenal achievement for the reference
collections to have been moved, and for so many new
display halls to have been opened, in a relatively short
time. By way of comparison, the Freer building did not
open until two years after it was completed, and that
was a far smaller operation. A published plan of the
Museum?’s exhibit halls indicates that all five acres of
display space was filled by 1917.'’ By any criteria one
cares to apply, the staff had done a remarkable job,
and deserved at least to pause on their laurels.

Offices and Storage Space

There was a vast amount of space in the massive new
building apart from what the exhibits occupied. Most
of the ground floor, except in the north wing, remained
to be filled, and the third floor provided acres of new
offices and seemingly unlimited storage space. As head
curator of geology, Merrill rated a large office on the
southeast corner, the same size as the office of the
director on the southwest corner, except that Merrill’s
was full of steel cases that divided it into several cub-
byholes. The remainder of the Geology Department
had adjacent offices facing the Mall, and the large min-
eral collection was at the north side of the east wing.
The chemical laboratory overlooked the east court.

62

Paleontologists of the Geological Survey filled most
of the offices on the third floor of the east range, con-
venient to the Geology Department. E. O. Ulrich and
a young J. B. Reeside were among those who moved
from the Hooe Building to share an office overlooking
the east courtyard. Late one afternoon Ulrich was
studying the fossil brachiopods in a large collection and
dividing them into three piles, each a different species.
Reeside arrived early the next morning and was there
to see Ulrich come in and begin shouting that someone
had mixed up the piles during the night. Deciding and
then changing one’s mind as to how much variation
there is within a species continues to be a major preoc-
cupation of a large number of people in the building.

The vertebrate paleontologists were on the ground
floor, partly because they needed more space and high
ceilings to assemble large specimens, and partly because
they needed ironwork from time to time to mount a
skeleton; this could be obtained from the nearby ma-
chine shop. Charles W. Gilmore had the northeast cor-
ner office. The library, on the east north range between
his office and the lobby, did not even occupy all the
space of that range. The saw for meteorites and the
stone-cutting and polishing equipment were also on the
east side adjacent to the shops and the east court. The
shops occupied most of the east wing.

Holmes had his office on the Constitution Avenue
side of the third floor, adjacent to the elevators in the
north wing. It was not as spacious as Rathbun’s and
Merrill’s south-side rooms, and on windy days there
was a racket from the halyard whipping back and forth
on the flagpole outside the window. But Holmes as an
arust liked the north light of the office, which also
chanced to have a marble-lined private bathroom. Sev-
eral other ethnologists were in the east north range;
Ales Hrdlicka and the physical anthropology collections
occupied the courtyard side. They were separated from
another group of ethnologists scattered in the east side
of the north wing closer to the rotunda. Anthropology
had a potsherd and casting laboratory in the north
range on the ground floor, around the corner from
the vertebrate paleontology laboratory; since both op-
erations used a fair amount of plaster in restoring miss-
ing fragments of bones or pots, the association was
convenient.

The Department of Biology was both the most split-
up and the largest in staff. The entomologists—that is,
the Department of Agriculture employees—were in the
west side of the north wing and in the west wing. Mol-
lusks were in the west range, along with a few Geological
Survey folk who worked on fairly young fossils. The
Museum’s bird division and the ornithologists of the
Biological Survey were in the west north range and the
courtyard side of the west wing. In later years the head
curator of biology had the first office in the east wing
nearest the rotunda. It is not a particularly distin-

The Exhibits
Hall of Archeology of
Europe and Asia (Hall 23),
on the second floor of the
north wing, looking north to
the elevator doors in the
distance; a model of the
Parthenon is to the right.
The windows on the left open
onto the west court, and the
openings on the right
overlook Hall 10. Probably
1910-1940.

guished one, but does have a large closet at one end,
an uncommon feature. Most offices had clothes trees
or lockers, for the thickness of the Museum’s walls pre-
cluded the sort of thin partitions used for conventional
closets.

On the ground floor, the mammalogists held sway
in both the west north range and the west range. Most
of the west range was occupied by mammalogists of the
Biological Survey, while the Division of Mammals had
the Constitution Avenue side of the building. The Mall
side of the west wing was occupied by the invertebrate
zoologists, and the Museum fish people had the north
side, looking out into the west courtyard. Botany re-
mained in the Castle.

Few New Staff Members

In spite of the large new quarters, few new members
were added to the scientific staff; most of the expansion
was from associated agencies. Neil Judd, in Anthro-
pology, was one of the few new junior staff members,
and his position probably came about because Holmes
was so busy with the National Gallery. Waldo Schmitt,
in invertebrate zoology, was another. A native of Wash-
ington, D.C., he had been a scientific aide in the Division
of Marine Invertebrates before joining several cruises
in Bureau of Fisheries vessels. After a year in California,
he returned to the Museum as an assistant curator.’”
In order to provide a paid position for him, Mary Jane

New Exhibits, New Offices

Rathbun, the sister of the Assistant Secretary, gave up
her staff appointment. Schmitt's devotion to her, through
the next thirty years of her career, was less an expres-
sion of gratitude than a true scientific love story. Miss
Rathbun was the specialist on crabs.

Compared to the brick building, the new National
Museum was a palace. All the offices, which were steam-
heated, had windows, giving plenty of daylight to work
by. For those on the ground floor, lavatories were in
the lobby; there were two on the third floor near the
rotunda. It may give some notion of the building’s size
to point out that from a remote office to the nearest
bathroom was close to a 500-foot walk.

There seems to be a general rule of thumb today
that it takes about five years after a major move for an
organization to function with its former efficiency. It
takes time to settle in and fit new members into the
staff, to remember where materials have been moved,
to get a grasp of how the library has been rearranged.
Yet the disruption of research at the Museum was min-
imal. Judging from lists in the annual reports of the
published papers of the staff, there was no noticeable
slackening of publication as a result of the move and
the new exhibits program. Certainly by 1913 the Mu-
seum staff was pursuing research at a more active pace
than ever. But the tranquility and order that had been
earned by hard work were not to last.

63
— Bi hice SAS TRE 2 fea cS a 2 ESET es

3 ot “ :
Chapter §

The Great War and
Its Lingering Aftermath

a FIRST HINT OF COMING DIFFICULTIES was re-
corded in an annual report: “The auditorium was
used on June 1, 1917, for an address to the employees
of the Institution and its branches by Eugene E.
Thompson, secretary of the Washington Liberty Loan
Committee, who explained the object of the Liberty
Loan, how the bonds could be purchased, and the de-
sire of Federal officials having the matter in charge that
the first loan of the United States receive as great a
number of individual subscriptions as did the last loan
in Great Britain.”' The weekly “Local Notes” that Sec-
retary Walcott had instituted the year before record
that the staff was paid in advance so that they could
participate in the loan drive. Later the “Notes” record
the sponsoring of a Red Cross ambulance by the staff.
Benjamin Walcott, the Secretary’s youngest son, went
off to fly for the French and died in 1917.

The Great War impinged upon the Mall in increas-
ingly real ways. “From the first evidence of trouble, the
[geology] department was subject to call for material
for experimental purposes, particularly along the lines
of electricity, radioactivity, light and sound transmis-
sion, from all branches of the government, the Geo-
physical Laboratory, and numerous private investiga-
tors.”* Later, for a period of several months, Merrill
“was detailed by the Council of National Defense to
find a sufficient supply of quartz for naval supersonic
purposes for not only his own country but for France
and England as well.” Biological effects of gas warfare
and peat as a fuel source were investigated. The Di-
vision of Physical Anthropology furnished data on the
human races of the Balkans, and other parts of the
Museum supplied esoteric information now vital to the
nation.

On October 13, 1917, President Wilson called to Sec-
retary Walcott’s attention the urgent need for space to
house the Bureau of War Risk Insurance, a new agency

under the Treasury Department. He asked if part of

the Arts and Industries building could be used. Instead,

Wartime rally in front of the Museum,
looking north from the Mall.

65

space was made in “the foyer on the ground floor of
the natural history building with the adjoining rooms,
and shortly after, the west north and west ranges, by
removing the collections of the division of mammals
and of the Biological Survey to the same ranges on the
second floor. The space thus provided amounted to
approximately 25,000 square feet.”

While accepting, as his colleagues did, the necessity
of this sacrifice, Steyneger was quite clear as to the up-
heaval it caused within the Museum:

when late in the caiendar year of 1917 the division

of mammals and the Biological Survey were called

upon to give up their laboratory and storage space
in the west and west north ranges, ground [floor],
it was decided to move the cases containing these
collections up into the corresponding exhibition
space on the second floor. In these ranges were
exhibited the District of Columbia fauna, the
domestic animal series, all the invertebrates
including the insects, the whole synoptic series, the
special exhibits of color aberrations, hybrids, birds
eggs and nests, the destructive work of insects, the
historical exhibit of the corals of the Wilkes

Exploring Expedition, etc. The bulk of the

exhibition cases were placed in adjacent alcoves

containing the special exhibits, but a large number
had to be given shelter in the whale hall, which
thereby became unduly crowded with a very
heterogeneous assembly of exhibits. Some of the
large cases could not be thus accommodated and,
like that containing the zebu and the yak, were
transferred to the south side of the south hall on

the first floor, where the original arrangement . . .

had to be disturbed and the cases crowded

together. Toward the end of the fiscal year it
became necessary to give up more space for the
same purpose, in consequence of which both the
big halls on either side of the great skylight hall on
the first floor for the west wing had to be cleared
of their exhibits. . . .”

On November 23, the President again wrote to
the secretary [Walcott] asking that the Board of
é ——<— : a As. =

Margaret W. Moodey, 1910. Miss Moodey was sec relary in
the Department of Geology, and probably this was taken in

the southeast corne) office of the third floor.

~,

pic. . Ey ee
Clerks on the first floor of the Museum, probably in 1918.
The scene is one of the ranges—the exhibits cannot be

identified.

66

Regents place at the disposal of this bureau from
60,000 to 80,000 additional feet in the exhibition
hall... which was provided by concentrating the
cases in parts of each hall and protecting them by
means of partitions, thereby leaving large areas
available. . . .

As the force increased additional space was
granted, so that at the close of the fiscal year, the
bureau occupied 69,286 square feet in the foyer,
auditorium, and ranges on the ground floor; the
rotunda, and portions of the exhibition halls on
the first floor extending from the center of the
north hall around east through the southern
section of the west hall, thereby providing
accommodations for 3,059 employees.

On July 16, 1918, at the further request of the
President, the Board of Regents closed the natural
history building to the public, thereby making
available for the Bureau of War Risk Insurance on
the ground and two exhibition floors a total of
138,600 square feet.”

This conversion to office space was a remarkable in-
cident, probably unparalleled in the history of Amer-
ican museums. The building is large, but the concept
of thousands upon thousands of clerks at their desks
brings that point home dramatically.

Museum Reopened

In late March 1919 the Bureau of War Risk Insurance
moved to quarters of its own at the corner of Vermont
Avenue and H Street, NW, but its funds were so de-
pleted that it was unable to honor its agreemnt to ren-
ovate the Natural History Building. The Museum thus
had to be reopened unrepaired—the first floor on April
11 and the second floor on April 22. In the next fiscal
year the Museum received sufficient funds to repair
the damaged plaster walls and repaint the exhibit halls.

For years, a footnote to the annual attendance figure
of 132,859 for fiscal 1918—19 indicated that it reflected
only the three months the building was open that year—
April, May, and June, 1919. Attendance was strikingly
heavy, suggesting that visitors had sorely missed the
Museum during the long time it was closed. Attendance
during the previous fiscal year, 1917-18, represented
a great increase over annual figures for the first few
years the Museum was open. More than 401,000 visitors
came to the Natural History Building during the twelve
months of that year. The relatively heavy attendance,
in spite of the fact that some exhibits were closed, showed
the swelling of population in wartime Washington and
the lack of other entertainment facilities.

During World War II the Museum remained open
and functioned about as normally as any agency did at
that ume. When there was talk of closing it again, it
was successfully argued that the educational and en-
tertainment value of the Museum, for people assigned

The Exhibits
Clerks on the first floor of
the Museum. This may be
Hall 12 in the west range
looking south; before World
War I, it housed a bird
exhibit. Another hall, in the
distance, is blocked off for
offices. The 125 or so people
shown give some indication
of how crowded the building
must have been with desks
for 3,000 clerks. Fans pro-
vided all the climate control
that was available.

’

to war work in the city, far outweighed any minor sav-
ings in fuel or labor.

One aftermath of the First World War was a huge
accumulation of uniforms, weapons, medical instru-
ments, and a host of miscellaneous materials that came
to be known as the War Collection and stayed in the
building for more than a decade. Partly as a result of
this great growth in the collections, in 1921 a Depart-
ment of History was split off from the Department of
Anthropology; it was headquartered in the Arts and
Industries Building. Another legacy of the war was a
sheet-metal shed, behind the Castle, that had been erected
by the Army Signal Corps. This became the Aircraft
Building and the nucleus of the National Air and Space
Museum.

New Administration

The Museum was under new administration, for on
the same day that it had been closed to the public—
July 16, 1918—Richard Rathbun died. There was no
member of the scientific staff either willing or able to
succeed him. Perhaps if the war had not disrupted
matters so, one of the three head curators would have
moved into the job, but that did not happen, and on
November 1, 1918, the position of Assistant Secretary
in charge of the United States National Museum was
discontinued. William de C. Ravenel was placed in charge
of the administrative affairs of the Museum, with the
titles of Administrative Assistant to the Secretary and
Director of Arts and Industries in the Museum.

It is hard to find out much about Ravanel, except
that he was of the South Carolina Ravenels. A former
official of the Fish Commission, as Rathbun had been,
Ravenel was more a bureaucrat than a scientist. His

The Great War and Its Lingering Aftermath

personal interests lay in Arts and Industries and the

historical collections. But he strongly asserted the right
of natural history to occupy the entire Natural History
Building, uncramped by the National Gallery of Art
or—even more unmanageable at that tme—the War
Collection.

The rotunda was set aside for naval exhibits during
the latter half of 1919, and the Navy soon filled it with
signalling devices, a paravane, and various munitions.
“During the month of June the large 6-inch naval gun
which fired America’s first shot in the World War was
delivered at the building. Owing to its weight and the
impossibility of getting it in the building it was placed
on the east driveway, where it makes a most impressive
exhibit.”

Early in 1920, according to the Annual Report,
the space assigned to the War Collections was
increased by two large ranges on the ground floor.
... In one was installed the collection of foreign
uniforms, insignia and decorations ... and the
collections of captured German military
equipment. ... In the second range were placed
the collections of chemical warfare and ordnance
material. The west and central portion of the foyer
. was given over to the Corps of Engineers for
its exhibit; a portion of the foyer and three rooms
on the east to the exhibit of the Medical
Department ... and the walls of three rooms on
the west of the foyer to the pictorial material. . . .*

The public liked these new displays, but the staff had
become deeply frustrated by the continued occupation
of so much of their exhibit and storage space and the
hindrance of their work.

67
Be

“Setting up the Serpent columns in the National casts may have been placed near the north
Museum,” a copy of a photograph in William elevator before being moved into Hall 23. There

Henry Holmes’s “Random Records.” Judging was some work on the exhibit halls after they
from the ceiling height, this was the second floor. reopened in 1919, though it rs difficult to
The material behind does not appear to represent document just how much was done.

Central American anthropology, and these plaster

68 The Exhibits
The War Collection in the west or west north range, 1919—
1929. To the right is a naval gun with a sighting rifle on
the barrel. The wheeled object ts a field oven, and the
foremost case contains boards of insignia. On the wall are
drawings by J]. C. Chace of various war heroes.

“W. E. Scollick and Doris Cochran’s mother painting model
of ocean sunfish, about 1928.” There were two models

The Great War and Its Lingering Aftermath

The Henry Ward een Pahibe at aie Pee corner of
the first floor, at the juncture of Halls 6 and 7. This
photograph was taken after 1922, when the Ward
Collection was placed on exhibit. The African elephant head
(Loxondontus) on the wall cannot be located, and may
have been deaccessioned when the display was revised.

made of Lampris; both 1 were taken off exhibit in the early
1950s, when the fish hall was closed.

69
- Lares

Chapter 9

Interregnum

aA THE RECOVERY OF LOST SPACE, funding for
the Museum was of first concern. Yet, Ravenel
wrote, “the appropriations for the fiscal year ending
June 30, 1920, remained practically the same as for the
past ten years—excepting those for heating and lighting
and for furniture and fixtures, the former being in-
creased to take care of the additional buildings, the
latter being slightly reduced from the amount for sev-
eral years just prior to the war—notwithstanding the
fact that since the Natural History Building was con-
structed about ten years ago approximately three mil-
lion species have been added to the collections. ‘This
alone ... should warrant a large increase in the ap-
propriation for preservation of collections, from which
the entire staff of scientific, administrative, and exec-
utive branches of the service are paid, and a consid-
erable increase in the item for furniture and fixtures.”'
The budget item for “preservation of collections” was
$300,000 that year.

A year later the appropriation was $312,650, but the
extra sum went entirely to the newly opened Freer
Gallery. The United States National Museum now had
four buildings: Arts and Industries; the still-new Nat-
ural History building; the tin shed behind the Castle,
dignified by the name of Aircraft Building; and the
Freer Gallery. In 1923, with appropriations still vir-
tually unchanged, the Museum reported “difficulty in
making both ends meet. . . . It is only by rigid economy
and by the omission of many things that should be done
that the year ends without a deficit.”

Though the country, under President Harding, had
returned to normality in a very large way, the Smith-
sonian and its buildings were not prospering. The

Stairwell on north side of east wing, April 1984. The
transparencies on the window into the east court are
between the first and second floors. These are the last
remnants of the old Hall of Geology and Meteoritics, dating
from a time when this stairway was open to visitors who
went to the second floor to see the building stones, minerals,
and gems. Except for the light fixture, this view could have
been taken any time since 1920.

71

fledgling Bureau of the Budget was now charged with
conducting the government’s business, and while peo-
ple were waiting to see how it would operate, it did
constitute an immediate barrier between agency heads
and Congress. Secretary Walcott was a past master of
friendly relations with senators and congressmen, and
had enjoyed easy entry to the White House since the
time of President Cleveland, but none of that was work-
ing for him now.

Grim Times for the Smithsonian

With access to Congress cut off and an unsympathetic
administration in power, times were grim. The year
1925—26 “marks acrisis in the affairs of the Institution,”
Walcott reported. “For several years it has grown more
and more difficult to stretch the income from its meager
endowment sufficiently to cover the steadily increasing
costs of even the limited amount of research which can
be undertaken and the administration of the eight
growing Government bureaus. The cost of publishing
is more than twice that of 10 years ago, which has
resulted in materially decreasing the output of Smith-
sonian publications. . . . The Institution has for several
years been undermanned, and the ordinary running
expenses are met only by the exercise of rigid econ-
omy.” Everyone seemed to use the phrase “rigid econ-
omy.”

As one way of raising funds, Walcott instituted the
Smithsonian Scientific Series; the bulk of this encyclopedic
work was written by staff members in the National Mu-
seum. Eventually the series produced some income for
the Institution, as did the books of paintings of North
American wildflowers by Mrs. Walcott, but not enough
to help substantially. Secretary Walcott then made a
serious attempt to increase the Smithsonian endow-
ment. Consultants were hired, and Dwight Morrow
agreed to head the first nationwide fund-raising drive
in the history of the Institution. On February 11, 1927,
a major meeting was held in the Castle to start this
search for endowment funding. Sadly, Walcott had died
only two days before, and it was only because of his
deathbed wish that the conference went on as planned.
What with Walcott’s death, Morrow’s appointment as
ambassador to Mexico, the stock market crash and the
subsequent depression, the drive was a failure.

The Passing of the First Generation

The whole first generation of naturalists who were es-
tablished names in the old National Museum now began
to die off. Frank H. Knowlton, an eminent paleobo-
tanist, died in 1926. Only a few weeks after Walcott’s
death, the mollusk expert William Healy Dall died.
George Merrill of Geology died in 1929; W. H. Holmes,
the artist-anthropologist, retired in 1932 and died in
1933. In evaluating careers, one historical issue is whether
a person is noteworthy simply because he was an early
worker in a given area; but there is no doubt that all
these people were first-rank scientists.

‘There were a few staff members added in the 1920s.
William F. Foshag had become an assistant curator of
mineralogy and petrology in 1919, and the following
year Doris M. Cochran came on as an aide in the Di-
vision of Reptiles and Batrachians (amphibians). Later,
Herbert W. Kreiger and Henry B. Collins came to the
Division of Ethnology. Stull later, Thomas D. Stewart is
listed as an aide in the Division of Physical Anthro-
pology; as T. Dale Stewart, he later played an important
role in the history of the building. In 1928 Remington
Kellogg transferred from the Biological Survey to be-
come an assistant Curator of mammals, and at the close
of the decade, Edward Henderson transferred from
the Geological Survey to the Division of Physical and
Chemical Geology.

Since the Bureau of the Budget had reclassified all
positions within the Museum in 1924, salary standards,
especially for scientists, were higher, which helped the
Museum to attract and retain a full staff. The new
Secretary was Charles Greeley Abbot, who had been
director of the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory.

Alexander Wetmore

The most noteworthy staff addition of the 1920s was
the ornithologist Alexander Wetmore. As a member of
the Biological Survey since 1911, he knew the Museum
well. In 1924 the director of the National Zoo, Ned
Hollister, died unexpectedly. Wetmore was appointed
by Walcott to succeed him, but held this position for
only a few months. “In accordance with a plan to de-
velop and coordinate the scientific work of the various
branches of the Smithsonian Institution,” read the An-
nual Report, “provision was made ... for an additional
assistant secretary, and on April 1, 1925, Dr. Alexander
Wetmore was appointed to this post with general su-
pervision over the Museum interests of the Institu-
tion—the United States National Museum, the National
Gallery of Art, and the National Zoological Park.”* Wet-
more was listed that year as Assistant Secretary, but the
following year his utle reverted to the classic one, last
held by Rathbun, of “Assistant Secretary, Smithsonian

79

$2

Institution, in charge United States National Museum.”

Wetmore asked for assistance, and John Graf was
added to the Museum staff as his administrative aide,
although his office was in the Arts and Industries Build-
ing. On the rare occasions when Wetmore made an
unreasonable decision, the staff member concerned
would take it up with Graf. Of course, almost always
everyone did what Wetmore advised. “A tall man of
quietly distinguished presence and great natural mod-
esty,”’ he did not demand respect, but he commanded
it. After World War I, jackets were not worn at the
desk, but somehow everyone put on a jacket to visit the
director’s office.

Departmental Rearrangements

Some internal rearrangements had been made in the
Museum’s departments. In 1920 a Division of Echi-
noderms (starfish, for example) was formed so that
Austin H. Clark could become curator. Clark, who had
been socially and politically active in the Museum circle
for years, had assumed that after Walcott’s death he
might be made director. But that never happened, and
Clark remained in his ground-floor office writing huge
monographs. An active worker, Clark was famed for
keeping the messiest office in the building. He never
filed away reprints or accession slips, but could always
find what he needed. Long after Clark’s official retire-
ment, a younger colleague went to his office to complain
about not being able to obtain a typewriter. According
to legend, Clark dug into the pile of reprints on one
of his tables and extracted a standard model typewriter
that had been completely hidden from view. Judging
from the dates on the reprints hiding it, the machine
had been covered for ten years.

The year after Clark got his division, the Division of
Mollusks was formed. Paul Bartsch had already been
promoted to the rank of curator, and this separation
occurred more at the request of other departmental
members than for any other reason. Bartsch was a wom-
anizer, yet he also taught a Sunday-school class and
helped instruct Boy Scouts. He wrote a great deal on
mollusks, and supposedly one can trace his romances
by the new species bearing the names of various ladies.
While there may not be any truth to the story that he
once chased a secretary onto a ledge, he did pull up
the skirts of one secretary, who ran screaming to Wet-
more. One day in 1953 when Bartsch, then in his 80s,
was said to be coming in for the day, an illustrator who
hoped to meet him was advised to keep her back to the
wall and her hands on her skirt.

Lapses in the Work Ethic

Most people worked conscientiously, but of course there
were lapses. Edward Henderson tells of the “hat trick”
of Barton Bean in the Division of Fishes. On occasional
mornings Bean would go to his office, turn on the lights
and hang up his hat and coat, and then stroll uptown

The Exhibits
The National Gallery of Art during the George Washington
Bicentennial in 1932. The large paintings on the walls
were specially prepared by American artists, and a

to shoot a few games of pool, later returning to pick
up his hat. Henderson also mentioned the technician
in the ground-floor preparation room of the Depart-
ment of Geology. He would come to the Museum each
morning and telephone to Miss Moodey, the depart-
mental secretary—everyone on the staff had to report
in. Then he would turn on the large band saw used to
cut meteorites and go off to the waterfront for hours.
One day the band went off course and sawed into the
steel table. The saw and the table with the two-inch-
deep cut are still in use.

The Staff and the Telephone

The telephone office was at the northeast corner of the
north range. The staff was allowed six private calls a
month; all others were charged at a rate of three cents
per call. Upon getting the operator, the first step was
to state that this was an official call. The chief operator

Interregnum

temporary exhibit of sculpture was installed. Below the
picture of Fort Necessity is the statue by Daniel Chester
French, The Minuteman.

had the habit of listening from time to time and then
ringing the staff member after a call was completed,
arguing that the business had been private, not official.
One conversation was concluded by the outside party’s
saying that he had better hang up because the old bat
might be listening in. The chief operator immediately
rang the curator’s office, incensed at being called an
old bat by someone outside the Museum.

Although later telephone operators did not so ob-
viously listen in, for years all long-distance calls had to
be placed through an operator; it took a bit of effort
to reach the point where the curators could place long-
distance calls directly without first notifying the de-
partmental secretary. Not until 1963, when a more elab-
orate telephone system was installed in the new Mu-
seum of History and Technology, did the staff have
access to direct dialing throughout the country. Not
until 1980 were push-button telephones installed.

~I
ae
East range ground floor, April 1984, showing the steel
decking and windows that open onto the corridor but are
plastered-over on the exterior. From the 1930s to the
1960s, vertebrate fossils were stored here. The cases,
covered to keep out dust, now contain invertebrate fossils;
the fluorescent lights are moderately new. The Scanning
Electron Mu roscope Laboratory is directly below.

Karl Krombein recalls that the library for entomol-
ogy, which was along the west north range, also housed
the secretary for the Department of Agriculture en-
tomologists. Phe only USDA telephone in the building
was in that office, and whenever a telephone call came
in, the individual office would have to be buzzed through
an elaborate code of short and long noises. The person
buzzed would then run to the telephone, and as some
of the offices were 300 feet away, this did not make for
efficient communication.

Musical Chairs

Herbert Friedmann was listed as curator of birds in the
Annual Report for fiscal year 1930; in the following re-
port, G. Arthur Cooper was listed as assistant curator
in the Division of Stratigraphic Paleontology. But these
were not increases in the staff, for Friedmann replaced

74

the deceased Robert Ridgeway, and R.S. Bassler had
moved up to head curator of geology after Merrill’s
death, leaving a vacancy. Charles Resser handled the
Cambrian fossil collections and Cooper was to look after
everything else. In 1934, Edward A. Chapin trans-
ferred from the Biological Survey of the Department
of Agriculture to replace the deceased J. M. Aldrich in
the Division of Insects. In number, if not in position,
the staff was nearly static until the 1940s.

T. Dale Stewart described the situation as a “game
of musical chairs that goes on all the time in the Smith-
sonian.” He turned to an especially sticky chapter on
the history of this department:

Dr. Walter Hough, a long-time head curator of
anthropossgy, had died ... in September, 1935.
Normally, he would have been succeeded by one
of the three curators under him. In order of
seniority, this would have been either Ales
Hrdlicka in physical anthropology, Neil Judd in
archeology, or Herbert Kreiger in ethnology. As it
happened, however, these three were not on
speaking terms with one another. Faced with this
situation, Alexander Wetmore . .. reached down to
the next level in the hierarchy and picked Frank
Setzler, Judd’s assistant curator, to be acting head
curator. ...

It has long been my opinion that Setzler’s
advancement to the head curator’s office was due
largely to the fact that he made a special effort to
ingratiate himself with his elders. ... No one else
had the temerity to call Wetmore “Alec”, [or]
Hrdlicka “Ales”; yet Setzler did and apparently
they liked it. Indeed, the three anthropological
curators liked it so much that they acquiesced in
Setzler’s advancement over them.”

‘There were personal problems in other departments,
too. In Geology, an emotionally unbalanced aide once
threw a rock and hit James Benn, a quiet man who
curated the minerals. Head curator Bassler almost al-
ways said no to any request, but if it were pursued to
the point of going to see Dr. Wetmore, Wetmore would
usually say that the request seemed reasonable and Bas-
sler would immediately agree. Biology, apart from
Bartsch, was calmer, though there is the true story of
Miss Rathbun’s throwing a glass of water in the face of
a technician who became hysterical when finally dis-
missed for poor performance. In the latest oral version
of the scene, the diminutive Miss Rathbun dragged over
a chair to stand on while she poured a pitcher of water
on the hysteric.

The Thirties

In 1935 no one publicly expressed any interest in cel-
ebrating the first twenty-five years in the new building.
Even if it was not one big happy family, however, the
Museum of the 1930s was a scientifically rewarding

The Exhibits
Later view of the Hall of Paleobotany on the first floor
looking west to rotunda, 1930s. To the right is a fossil tree
stump. To the left of Hall 5, in Hall 2, one can see the
papier-maché Stegosaurus made for the 1902 Pan-
American Exhibit in Buffalo, and the Triceratops skeleton
to the right.

place. Most members of the scientific staff were turning
out large tomes. In the exhibits field, the Museum in-
stalled, in 1931, the seventy-foot skeleton of the huge
dinosaur Diplodocus longus, a fossil unearthed from the
quarries at Dinosaur National Monument in Utah.
Mounted so that visitors could walk under it between
the shoulder and the hip, the skeleton reigned for twenty
years as the Museum’s single most impressive exhibit.
The old A-frame cases, at Edward Henderson’s sug-
gestion, were partitioned so that people viewing a dis-
play from one side would not look into the faces of
those on the other side. Henderson also introduced, in
the 1930s, the first lighted case in the building, to il-
luminate the Star of Artaban sapphire. To make its
alcove as dark as possible, he pushed the case so far
back that the top of it could be glimpsed from the
Dinosaur Hall below; for this Gilmore chided him.
Although money problems remained, space prob-
lems were partially resolved. Early in 1930 the naval
collections that had filled the rotunda for ten years were
moved to the Arts and Industries Building; over most
of the year, the remainder of the War Collection fol-
lowed piecemeal. That same year a steel-frame gallery,
or mezzanine, was erected over rooms 18 to 20 on the
ground floor, “increasing the storage facilities of the
division of vertebrate paleontology by approximately
1,750 square feet of floor space.” It is not clear what
prompted this new construction, although there were
attempts under President Hoover to use government
construction as a way of promoting the economy.
Vacating “two large and finely lighted” second-floor
exhibit halls that had been closed to the public since
1917,” the long-suffering mammalogists returned to
the ground floor. There they too obtained additional

Interregnum

oo ee 2A
Stratigraphic section, Invertebrate Paleontology. This was
part of Panorama of Life on the north side of Hall 4,
which showed a cross-section of the United States, together
with cases of fossils arranged by age. In the foreground is
part of the hologic series of fossils.

space by decking: “The galleries in the two ranges proper
will cover all the space between the exterior wall of the
building and the partiton walls enclosed the rooms in
the two ranges; and, in addition, in rooms 51 to 53 and
in the eastern half of room 57. The western half of this
latter room is already occupied by a steel gallery and
steel shelves containing the alcoholic mammal collec-
tion.” A synoptic display of marine invertebrates, par-
tially installed on the ground-floor west north range,
was abandoned in favor of the decking.

Today on the Constitution Avenue side of the build-
ing, in the windows of the west north range, one can
see a horizontal line of steel I-beams. They ruin the
appearance of the windows and certainly were not a
feature that Rathbun would have approved. The upper
deck consisted of loose steel plates that always rattled
when someone walked on them, with the storage cases
sitting directly on small cross-girders. There were plenty
of gaps between the plates, just large enough for dropped
pencils or books to fall through into the offices below.
The vertical steel I-beam supports are in the halls, but
they have been there for so long that even the oldest
inhabitants of the building do not recall either the ver-
tebrate paleontology or the mammal galleries’ being
installed. Unaesthetic as they may be—though made
feasible by the aesthetic decision to raise the ground
floor three feet in 1905—these decks were and are very
useful. In addition, they were symbolic, a tangible in-
dication that preoccupation was shifting from the ex-
hibitions to research and reference collections.
Crowding in Natural History
The Museum staff was greatly relieved to see the War

Collections disappear, but as usual there was a trade-

75
Leonhard Stejneger, head curator of zoology, standing by a
special temporary exhibit in the Castle. The illustrations to
the right, by a Japanese artist, were prepared before 1909,
but never published; the fauna is currently under study by
Victor C. Springer of the Division of Fishes. This display
was prepared for the February 1927 endowment drive.

off to the disadvantage of natural history. Half of Hall
26 on the second floor became the site of a lace exhibit
brought over from Arts and Industries. At first the
Constitution Avenue side of the hall was used for lace
and the south side for biology; it took nearly a decade
to improve this to the point that the area nearest the
elevators was devoted to lace and the western part to
natural history. Case after dreary case of lace, Malcolm
Watkins, recalls, gave way at the dividing line to displays
of chickens on one side and wasps on the other. The
Wasp Case was strewn with crumpled newspaper in an
attempt to communicate the idea that a newspaper and
the material forming the nest of a paper wasp were
fundamentally the same. Each year the nest got darker
from dust and the newspaper got yellower. Within a
few more years, several exhibit alcoves on the west side
were converted into office space for entomologists. Not
all the space that had been open in 1917 was ever re-
covered for public displays.

Even if the lace were ignored, the Natural History
Building was sull a long way from being fully devoted
to natural history. In 1932, to commemorate the 200th
anniversity of George Washington’s birth—a major event
in the Capital . under the aus-
pices of the National Sculpture Society, was installed
in the National Gallery of Art, with extension into the
rotunda of the Natural History Building. The rotunda
will be kept free of ordinary exhibits that it may serve
its proper purpose as an impressive entrance into the
building. The greater part of the foyer was alloted for
a temporary exhibit of the National Capital Park and
Planning Commission dealing with the development

“a special exhibition . .

and future plans for the city of Washington.”!”

At the close of the bicentennial year the foyer exhibit
was removed, as were the twin stone lions that had
temporarily graced the pedestals at either side of the
south steps. But the rotunda received some “largesse”
in the form of several of the plaster figures from the
show. Having been presented to the National Gallery
of Art, they remained in place, whether the Museum’s
curators liked it or not.

The Great Depression

By 1933 America was in the Roosevelt years and the
Great Depression. This was a grim time, but for Wash-
ington civil servants, not so grim as elsewhere. Most
Museum staff members were given a month’s unsalar-
ied furlough, but at least they had jobs to return to.
Watson Perrygo, the taxidermist, like many others, con-
tinued to come in and work on the collections; even-
tually, the Smithsonian scraped up the money for back
pay.

As umes got worse, the Museum became the site of
various emergency relief work projects instituted by the
New Deal. A short-lived Civil Works Administration
placed temporary help in the building between Decem-
ber 15, 1933, and February 20, 1934. In all, 208 people
shelved books, typed lists, wrote labels, and repaired
equipment. “As our staff has been for a long time un-
dermanned,” Wetmore wrote in the Annual Report, “the
C.W.A. work came at an opportune time, and not only
provided employment but aided materially in placing
our records and collections in proper condition for
preservation and study. The assistance, though occu-
pying much of the regular staff in supervision, was
entirely worth while and much appreciated.”

When the CWA project ended, in February 1934,
the Museum applied to the District of Columbia gov-
ernment for similar assistance under the Federal Emer-
gency Relief Administration (FERA). In November “33
women, and 43 men were so assigned. Supplies and
materials required were purchased from the regular
appropriations. As before, the work was concerned
largely with . . . the handling of the national collections
and was limited to preserving specimens, book and rec-
ords, and increasing their usefulness for study and sci-
entific research.”!*

WPA Project

This project closed one year later, but in May 1936 a
WPA (Works Progress Administration) project to suc-
ceed it was initiated through the District of Columbia
government. For that fiscal year, about 18,000 man-
hours of work was under FERA and about 6,500 under
WPA. The Federal Art Project also allowed a bit of help
for the art collections. In fiscal year 1937, temporary
help increased to eighty-eight people, although some
worked only briefly. By the close of the next fiscal year,

The Exhibits
yee
vel

rh
¥ yy

yl
1s i

vt

< iv Fag Ec

ea

Exhibit of do

mestic chickens, 1920-1940. The case of monkeys to the right suggests Hall 13 in the west wing, a display

area that was divided between birds and mammals. This is currently the bird hall.

167 temporary WPA employees were in the building.
“The project proceeded smoothly, not only as a result

of the efficient organization but also because many of

the workers had gained experience from the previous
year.””°

There continued to be fluctuations in numbers, and
a gradual decrease the next year. In 1940 WPA help
ended, and was eulogized in the Annual Report: “The
termination of this project on April 15 was felt in all
departments of the Museum. Aside from the care given
in arranging the study collections and conducting nu-
merous other tasks related to the preservation of the
material, the cataloguing and numbering of specimens
were of direct aid to research, for the material thus
handled became readily available for study by our own

staff and other technical workers. The departure of

these assistants brings loss to the Museum. ... Their
accomplishments were of permanent value, and it is
hoped that their service at the Museum was of equal
value to them in making them better fitted to take their
places in the outside world.”

There is no doubt that the use of temporary help
was a mixed blessing. Some of the collections benefited
from the extra attention; a card catalogue prepared for
the meteorite collection and a picture file of decapod
crustaceans are still in use. But Henry Collins remem-
bered a terrible muddle made by an unemployed dress-
maker who renumbered collections. ‘T. Dale Stewart

Interregnum

noted that the WPA employees could put a number on
a bone when instructed, but then could do nothing
more with it. Waldo Wedel recalled a drunken drafts-
man whose table was covered with newspaper; an inked
line began along a straightedge and then angled off to
follow a line between the columns of newsprint. Still,
he remembered another WPA employee as the best
typist he ever encountered. At best, keeping unskilled
help occupied was a drain on the staff.

Late in the WPA period, before the free help ran
out, the National Collection of Fine Arts made some
renovations, replacing tons of weak plaster, painting,
and covering the walls with a light-colored monk’s cloth.
Otherwise, little of this extra help was directed toward
the exhibits. Coal dust was everywhere, and because
the building shook slightly from the machinery on the
ground floor under the geology halls, the dust moved
off the specimens in the cases and accumulated in elon-
gate windrows. The usual method of dealing with this
was to open the top of the case and blow.

Just before the Second World War, the elevators in
the lobby and the rotunda were replaced; after thirty
years, it was high time. These were about the only major
expenditures having anything to do with exhibitions.
For two decades, work at the Museum had looked in-
ward toward research and toward increase and main-
tenance of collections, not outward toward the general
public. 0

~I
~I
eS ein eins emote ee

sie ase decent
a a a re

Chapter 10

World
War II

ORLD WAR I WAS QUITE a different affair from

World War I. The Great War had been a shock
to most people, destroying what had been half a century
of peace and tranquility. The second war was antici-
pated by many, and America’s involvement was longer
and deeper. To the National Museum community, the
second had two distinctive effects. It caused funda-
mental modifications in the relationship of science to
government. And on the practical side, there was real
concern about destruction in Washington—a point never
seriously considered in 1917, but one that had worried
the Museum staff even before the bombing of Pearl
Harbor on December 7, 1941.

“For the past year attention has been given to the
designation of categories of specimens that were to be
evacuated from Washington in case of entry into the
War or should air raids come to Washington,” read the
1941—42 report. “The work of selecting and packing
this material has occupied the staff for months, and
part still remains to be accomplished. In some of the
collections type series have been maintained separately
for some time, while in others types were kept with
other material so that it was necessary to segregate them,
with many thousands of specimens concerned. . . .. Type
specimens preserved in alcohol, which offer some dif-
ficulties in handling, were evacuated together with se-
lections of insects. Other type material will go to a ware-
house in another location.”' (A type specimen is the
standard to which other organisms are referred to see
if they are the same species.)

Safeguarding Type Specimens

Karl Krombein, newly on the staff of the Department
of Agriculture, was given the task of separating insect
types from the general collection in his charge. Looking
back on it forty years later, he judged it to have been
a worthwhile effort, for the separate type collections
received more care and attention. Any museum curator
worth his salt will be extremely protective of the types;

Triceratops in the early Dinosaur Hall, with
Stegosaurus behind.

79

from a scientific standpoint, they are by far the most
valuable part of any collection.

Little is said in the annual reports about this evac-
uation of material, and the few participants still on the
staff do not dwell on it. Specimens were taken to Luray,
Virginia, where they remained for three years. “It is
with considerable relief that we were able during the
year [1944] to bring back to Washington the thousands
of valuable type specimens and other irreplaceable ob-

jects that early in the war had been removed from the

Capital for safekeeping. ... Return of this material,
which aggregated more than 60 tons, was completed
in November, 1944, and by the end of that year most
of the specimens had been reinstalled.”

The Museum had only a single great auk, so it was
taken off exhibition, wrapped in paper, and sent away.
The help was inexperienced and neglected to put moth
balls in the package. As a result, many of the feathers
were eaten and dropped off. Watson Perrygo glued
them back on one at a time. Eventually, the specimen
was restored, but it looked so bad until all the feathers
were replaced that Wetmore told Perrygo to keep a
cover over it at all times so that no one else would see
it.

Unwrapping and returning the types to the collec-
tions was far worse than packing them. Inevitably some
specimens were lost, and the packing and unpacking
disrupted research for years. Like the similarly disrup-
tive conversion of the building to office space during
World War I, evacuation of the types was a unique
event. Should a global conflict come again, with the
Museum at ground zero in Washington, evacuating types
and rare specimens would be futile.

Pearl Harbor spurred planning for the protection of
the works of art in the National Collection of Fine Arts.
A portion of the wall behind the mural Diana of the
Tides was fortified to resist bomb fragments. Plans were
made for the evacuation of some paintings, and others,
including miniatures and part of the Gellatly collection,
were assigned to the ground-floor lobby, which was
considered safe from incendiary bombs.

An important safety measure was “the removal of
NORTH PAVILION

WEST RANGE

7 ETHNOLOGY

AMO CHEMICAL GEOLOGY

WEST COURT EAST COURT

6 PHYSICAL

2 VERTEMRATE Fosse.

i
8
=

WEST WING EAST WING

ee = = i=

fox on PARK EN

RANCE \\\

Plan of exhibits on the first floor as anticipated in 1919,
but not realized until the 1930s. From a 1919 brochure
containing ten pages of text describing the exhibits, plus

floor plans.

many tons of heavy storage racks containing geological
and paleontological specimens from the fourth floor
to the ground and second floors of the Natural History
Building. Also, storage cases and many specimens were
taken from other sections of the fourth floor to the
second floor to such an extent that allows free move-
floor of the building in
case of fire from incendiary bombs, the floor in question
various items of inflam-
mable material were eliminated.”

ment throughout the upper

being directly under the roof;

Building-Stone Exhibit Closed

Charged with securing storage space for these hefty
collections, a committee recommended that the build-
ing-stone exhibit on the second floor be “reduced in
size and that specimens that had outlived their useful-
ness be made available to other Government bureaus.
As a result, a considerable portion of such material was
accepted by the National Bureau of Standards for use
in testing the weathering conditions of various types of
building material. The space thus obtained made room
for a portion of the rock series and all the Paleozoic
invertebrate fossil collections. Then, the paleobotanical
collections formerly occupying the northern half of the
fourth floor were removed as a unit into two rows of
cases 9 feet high lining both sides of the northeast base-
ment hallway."

Hall 20, G. P. Merrill’s old “Building Stone Hall,”
actually had been under scrutiny for years, with some
members of the Geology Department wanting it closed.
Not many visitors came to the Museum in the 1930s,
and very few of them went in to see the slabs and cubes
of stone, Merrill’s pride and joy. Part of the exhibit
consisted of a series of bottles from various mineral

80

NORTH PAVILION

EAST RANGE

26 ooMEBTIC §— Local
ANIMALB FAUNA

WEST COURT

EAST COURT

23. AMERICAN ARCHEOLOGY

25 OLO WORLO ARCHEOLOGY
=
NORTH WING
=e
2) AMERICAN ARCHEOLOGY

19 ECONOMIC GEOLOGY

10 MiNeRALoayY

WEST WING EAST WING

pe er a a) SOUTH PAVILION

Plan of exhibits on the second floor as anticipated in 1919
but never realized, because of the moving-in of the lace
collection in the west north range and the gradual
encroachment of offices in the west range.

springs, but since the water had evaporated from some
of them, they had to be refilled from the tap. Edward
Henderson finally persuaded a friend at the National
Bureau of Standards that the Bureau might build a wall
of the various stones. Bassler as usual was against the
idea until Wetmore approved.

The paleobotanical collections were placed in the east
north range corridor outside the library, an area des-
ignated as an air-raid shelter. Yet the drawers of very
heavy specimens, piled up nine feet high, would have
been killers had they ever been tumbled by bomb blast.
In later years, just climbing up to look into them was
a hazard.

Civil Defense Measures

Frank Setzler, head curator of Anthropology, was in
charge of air-raid precautions for the Mall buildings.
Practice air-raid and blackout drills were described in
the report for 1943: “Twice during the year our air-
raid defense organization, consisting of approximately
212 employees, was given instruction in the use of fire
hoses, chemical fire extinguishers and the portable fire
pumps. Numerous incidents were prescribed during
the dayume air-raid drills which provided practice for
the stretcher and first-aid squads.”

For a number of years, wooden boxes filled with sand
were scattered throughout the attics. Gradually the
shovels and buckets disappeared and in the 1960s the
sand boxes were discarded, except for some near locked
doorways, to be used in case of fire. The measures that
might have mitigated destruction by incendiary bombs
would not have much impact in a nuclear age.

As might be expected, Museum attendance declined
at the start of the war. Attendance was so low in early

The Exhibits
Looking south at the Feath-
ered Serpent column and
model of the Castillo at
Chichén Itza in the Hall of
Archeology of Mexico, Cen-
tral and South America
(Hall 23). The columns were
moved about 1924, but were
not originally placed in this
hall; the hght globes suggest
a post-1930 date.

1942 that Perrygo used to visit the guards at the doors
to ask how many visitors were trickling in. After a year
attendance rose again. The Museum was open six and
one-half days a week; when the half day was shifted to
Monday, many people came on Sundays from 9:00 A.M.
to 4:30 p.M. From late 1942 until mid-1943, 25 to 35
percent of the visitors were servicemen, and efforts
were made to accommodate them. “In the Natural His-
tory Building a program of Sunday docent service for
guiding parties through the Museum, was inaugurated.
A number of women U.S.O. volunteers were especially
trained to act as guides, and the “tours’ conducted by
them proved very popular. During the period covering
the last 35 Sundays of the fiscal year [1944], over 5,000
members of the military personnel took advantage of
this guide service.”

Wartime Service

The scientists were by no means immune from wartime
service. In the Department of Anthropology alone, 25
percent of the staff left. J. F. Gates Clarke, an ento-
mologist then with the Department of Agriculture, held
a reserve commission and was gone by February 1942.
Karl Krombein, who later transferred from Agriculture
to Museum, stayed in the Air Force Reserve even after
the war and retired as a full colonel. T. Dale Stewart
taught human anatomy ina medical college in Missouri.
Others, like new assistant curator of birds S. Dillon
Ripley, joined the Office of Strategic Services. The State
Department recognized that it was important to

World War II

strengthen ties with Latin America, and Waldo Schmitt
was one of the first ambassadors of good will to be
dispatched. “Uncle Waldo” returned successful—char-
acteristically, bearing large collections of invertebrates.

The Museum’s real effort was not in entertaining
visitors Or protecting specimens, but in providing 1n-
formation. For the first time the nation was heavily
involved in Asia and the Pacific. Not many people had
knowledge of the area, but a few staff members had
collected specimens in these regions or knew them from
the literature. The staff and the library were over-
whelmed with requests for data on such topics as “cam-
ouflage plants; natural vegetation of specific regions

.; the use of land, fresh-water and marine animals
for food, the palatability of the flesh thereof, and meth-
ods of capture; the serviceability of hides and skins for
various purposes; disease transmission; marine
fouling organisms, bibliographic surveys; recommen-
dations regarding personnel.”” The list was more than
half a page long, and there must be a story behind each
of the requests for information.

The Museum staff was called upon for a great deal
of on-the-spot instruction, some having to do with dan-
gerous animals. “Assistance was given the Army Med-
ical School and the National Naval Medical Center, as
well as various Army and Navy training centers
throughout the country, by supplying well-preserved
material of insects and Acarina [mites and ticks] that
are involved in human health problems. About 1,200
specimens were specially mounted on pins, and ap-

81
Hall of Extinct Monsters (Hall 2) with Diana of the
Tides on the wall in the distance and one of the few
benches in the building in the foreground. Taken after
1932 from the second-floor rotunda, looking east. The
Zeuglodon has been displaced from center stage by the
Diplodocus. Triceratops is behind Diplodocus, and
behind it are both the skeleton and papier-maché
Stegosaurus.

An early view of the Dinosaur Hall with Tri iceratops ‘and
skeletons of the toothed whale (foreground), flanked by a
mastodon and Irish Elk. Date unknown, but before 1930
and probably before World War I, judging from the paucity
of material in the hall.

82

proximately 450 slide mounts were made for such train-
ing centers. During the year [1943] nearly 200 Army
and Navy officers who were being assigned to malaria
survey or control units, or to other activities concerned
with human-health problems, have received some in-
struction or other help from personnel of this divi-
sion.””®

During the early days of the war, groups of six or
eight servicemen would appear at the north door, hav-
ing been given oral orders to report to the Museum,
but no specifics. The guards would call Perrygo, who
would take the men in hand and provide instruction
on how to collect fleas and parasites from small mam-
mals. They would go out in the field, set traps, and
catch mice; the bodies were put in bags while still warm—
before the fleas hopped off. After a week or so of this,
the official papers would arrive ordering the men to
learn how to collect fleas. Some of these trainees went
on to become professional biologists after the war.

Survival Booklet

An absolutely basic booklet in the war was the Navy’s
Survival on Land and Sea, to which every department of
the Museum contributed data. The Smithsonian’s War
Background Studies was a major accomplishment, the
first volume being published six months after the war
began. For the first time, large numbers of American
armed forces were in places where the general concepts
of western civilization and culture did not apply. How
much these studies helped smooth cultural shock on
both sides can never be evaluated, but there is no doubt
that they were important.

“Though it cannot be told here or now,” Wetmore
wrote in 1943, “the story of the Museum’s participation
in this war is one in which we can all take pride.” But
the story has never been given in any detail, and those
who participated are mostly gone, like Julia Gardner
of the Geological Survey, who determined the launch-
ing site of a captured Japanese fire balloon by studying
the microfossils in a bag of its sand ballast. Rumor has
it that the migration routes of Pacific snapping shrimp
were plotted so that American submarines could nestle
up to them when threatened, for the sounds of these
crustaceans confused the sonar on Japanese ships.

A Sad Year for the Museum

The year 1943 was not a happy one at the Museum.
Miss Rathbun died, ending half a century of study of
crabs. And “with the death of Dr. Leonhard Stejneger
on February 28, the Department and the Museum suf-
fered an irreparable loss. He had been head curator of
the department of biology for the past 32 years. As man
and as scientist, he was noted for his breadth of knowl-
edge, depth of understanding, and, above all, for his
clear thinking.”'? Because Stejneger had held a presi-
dential appointment, he was immune from Civil Service
regulations and was still an employee at the age of

The Exhibits
Mammal groups in the
central hall of the west wing
(Hall 16) in the later 1930s
or 1940s. The Wapiti (Cer-

vus) are still on exhibit; the
glass eyes, painted with oil
paint on the interior, are
becoming opaque with age as
the paint pulls away from the
glass. Behind the Wapiti is
the buffalo group assembled
by William Hornaday. To
the right, seen through the
glass of the case, are the
mountain goats (Oreamnos).
Because one of them is lying
down, this may not be the
same group as is currently
displayed.

ninety-two. When he was in his eighties his doctor for-
bade him to do any more waltzing, as he became too
dizzy. Had he not been injured by a car when crossing
Constitution Avenue, he might have worked another
decade. Waldo Schmitt took over as head curator of
biology. Although a few old-timers continued to work
during the late 1940s and the 1950s, the war essentially
marked the end of the old-time naturalists who had
joined the staff in the brick National Museum.

Wetmore Succeeds Abbot

In 1944 Charles Greeley Abbot finally retired after
sixteen years as Secretary of the Smithsonian Institu-
tion. After six months under the formal title of Acting
Secretary, Alexander Wetmore was appointed in 1945
as sixth Secretary of the Institution, making official
what he had been for years as Assistant Secretary. For
the next four years he continued to serve as director
of the National Museum, and the Annual Report by the
director was formally submitted by “A. Wetmore” to
“The Secretary.” After 1947, when items concerning
the staff, the buildings, and a few other matters were
transferred for economy’s sake from the Museum re-
port to the full annual report of the Secretary of the
Institution, many details that had cast light on day-to-
day events were no longer recorded.

Just as the Annual Report of the Museum never ex-
plicitly noted the beginning of World War IT, it did not
record the end of the conflict. In the latter part of 1944
times continued to be difficult, but by early 1945 victory

World War II

was in the air, and by late summer the traumatic event
was over. The staff finally could think of research un-
connected with military work and devote some time to

more basic activities.

Nineteen forty-six marked the 100th anniversary of
the founding of the Smithsonian Institution. The Postal
Service issued a commemorative stamp, and consid-
ering that the war had been over for less than a year,
the Museum’s anniversary celebrations were not a bad
effort. They included a special exhibition in the foyer
from July 1 to September 27, 1946; a scholarly lecture
by Matthew Sturling of the Bureau of American Eth-
nology on his excavations in Mexico; and, on October
23, an evening ceremony followed by a reception in the
rotunda attended by 1,021 guests. Lucile St. Hoyme, a
physical anthropologist who was there, remembers that
the Marine Band Orchestra played from the second
floor around the rotunda. Wetmore surprised everyone
by dropping his modesty and leading the dancing.

One thing that was lacking in the Smithsonian’s cen-
tennial year was time to prepare a detailed written re-
cord considering what the Institution, and the Museum,
had accomplished in one century, and what they hoped
to accomplish in the next. Additional publicity would
have been extremely helpful, for the problems of the
thirties had not disappeared during the war. Funding
sull was short, and even with the return of workers
from the armed forces, the Museum was understaffed
at every level. Oo

83
Chapter 11

New Faces, New Funds,
New Exhibits

ee AS THERE WAS NO post-World War I increase in
staff at the Museum, there was no significant change
for at least a decade after World War II. If one counts
the scientific staff members listed for the three Museum
departments in 1946, the tally is: Anthropology, eleven;
Geology, ten; Biology, twenty-eight. Of the twenty-eight
in Biology, seven were botanists and one was Secretary
Wetmore. In 1956 the figures were: Anthropology, ten;
Geology, eight; and Zoology, twenty. Over in the Castle,
the Department of Botany listed eleven on the staff.
The number of aides in both years is unclear, but more
exhibits specialists were listed in 1956.

Students of administration like to compile tables of
age and grade distribution, but such exercises would
reveal very little about the Museum. During its first
four decades especially, the rate of change was slow.
In 1930, for example, G. Arthur Cooper was hired as
a bright young man of promise, and while he more
than lived up to expectations, his first raise came thir-
teen years later. When C. E. Resser died in 1944, Cooper
finally was promoted from the old Civil Service grade
P-3 to P-5.

It is equally hard to define generations of scientific
workers, since many scientists within the Museum had
careers of forty to fifty years. Paul Bartsch retired in
1946 after fifty years’ service; he died fourteen years
later. After forty-seven years, R. S. Bassler retired as
head curator of geology in 1948, but stayed around for
thirteen years more. Nevertheless, by the 1950s there
was scarcely anyone still working who recalled the old
days of the Museum before World War I, with the
exception of Waldo Schmitt. Schmitt was definitely not
a stick-in-the-mud when it came to new ideas. It was
he who in 1947 instituted the separation of Biology into

Edgar C. Laybourne painting the scales on a thin,
transparent layer inside the cast of a python (Python) in
the late 1950s or early 1960s. The model will be
strengthened by additional fiberglass; this tedious technique
gives widescence to the scales. Chopped up by a visitor in
1969, the specimen was repaired and is back on display in
Hall 29, near the Insect Zoo.

departments of Botany and Zoology; as last head cu-
rator of biology, he became the first head curator of
zoology. It was long past time that botany was given a
voice of its own.

A Brief Change from the Norm

It was a rare event in the 1920s and 1930s for anyone
to be hired, but even rarer for anyone to depart. During
the first decade or so after World War II, a strange
thing happened: Some scientists left the Museum staff.
Those in the shops, char force, and guards had come
and gone, but the turnover rate of scientific staff from
the inception of the Museum until World War II was
essentially zero; no one ever left, whether he was paid
or not.

Again in the 1960s and 1970s, very few of the per-
manent scientific staff left for greener pastures. It is a
little hard to account for what happened in between.
The war was followed by a tremendous boom in aca-
demic science, which led in turn to new opportunities
in industry and greater mobility of society at large.
Perhaps the stodginess and stinginess of the Museum
and the life of a curator no longer appealed to those
who had seen a lot of the world. Certainly the “young
tigers” who joined the staff in the late 1940s were far
more outspoken than their predecessors in their efforts
to institute change.

Cramped, Hot, Noisy Offices

It was not the Museum proper, but its affiliated or-
ganizations that showed the biggest growth in scientific
staff during the decade after the war. Rock and fossil
collections were moved once more, and in 1950 the
Geological Survey modified the closed-off “Stone Hall”
into office space. Noise droned in from the rotunda
and from the balconies overlooking the dinosaur ex-
hibit on the floor below. Specimen cases served as office
partitions, and in summer it was miserably hot. Lloyd
Henbest, who studied microfossils, kept a rat trap and
obtained enormous specimens. Roland W. Brown, an
eminent paleobotanist, used to come to the Museum
on weekends when it was quieter. The Museum in-
stalled an exhibit of a Geiger counter and a piece of
uranium ore on the wall outside his office, but though
he complained about the infuriating ticking noise, the
display remained because of public interest in atomic
energy 1n all its aspects.

The Geological Survey had already gained some ex-
hibit space, formerly used for invertebrate zoology, in
the northwest corner of the second floor. A “Coral
Room” was built in 1947, and some of the studies of
Pacific atolls that had been drilled and cored after World
War II were conducted there. The Department of Ag-
riculture entomologists also grew in number and oc-
cupied all of the west range on the second floor. Before
World War II they had changed a few of the exhibit
alcoves into cell-like offices; now there were individual
cubicles on both sides of the hall, with a passageway
between allowing what few tourists wandered that way
to walk from one side of the building to the other.
Everyone who was in Hall 27 recalls the cases in the
passageway containing the giant spider crab and the
giant clam, the last remnants of the invertebrate ex-
hibits that had been in the area.

Eventually the east side of this row of offices, facing
the west court, was decked over to provide needed
storage space for insect cases. ‘This made the little cu-
bicles even worse, for there was no air circulation. Dur-
ing the summer, at least two of the entomologists took
off their shoes and shirts before starting work. Among
those who put up with these conditions was R. E. Snod-
grass, from the Department of Agriculture. He ex-
emplifies the remarkable Museum retirees, for he re-
tired in 1945 and completed fourteen papers and a
mayor book on insect morphology before his death sev-
enteen years later.

Swamped with New Collections

By the start of the 1950s, the staff was being swamped
with new collections coming in by the thousands. While
the Museum’s functions of record and research were
going along about as well as might be expected with
the funds available, its exhibit halls were dreadful by
the standards of the larger American museums. George
Brown Goode had warned that a finished museum was
a dead museum, yet to too many minds, once a major
exhibit had been installed nothing more needed to be
done.

Secretary Wetmore had long been aware of the prob-
lems. As early as 1939 he had declared, “Much of our
exhibition equipment is antiquated, and added per-
sonnel is required for its proper care and moderniza-
tion.”' But despite his efforts, there was never money
in the budget for major revisions. Frugality was as much
a way of life as it had been during the Depression.
Ernest Lachner, hired in 1949 as an ichthyologist, re-
quested a pair of stainless-steel forceps and was refused
because no funds were available. When Harold Saun-
ders of the Geological survey asked the supply clerk

86

for a pencil, she responded, “What are you going to
use it for?” Whatever planning had been done for any
new halls was lost in the shuffle of World War II.
Although all the Museum departments had made
some changes in their exhibits since the 1930s, what
little exhibit work was being done—with the exception
of Perrygo’s habitat displays—was in effect only adding
a bit more of the same. From the tourist’s point of view,
nothing changed. One quick visit was more than enough,
as the reactions of local citizens attested. One who had
visited the Museum during this period likened it to a
funeral parlor because of the dark mahogany cases and
dim lights, and another thought the large, open hall-
ways looked like a bowling alley. Another, taking a field
trip with a university professor, suddenly became aware
that the exhibits were arranged to present a logical
story; but a visitor without a knowledgeable guide would
have been unlikely to understand the presentation.

Changing Exhibit Concepts

In the late 1940s, several Museum committees sug-
gested that the Smithsonian ask for additional funds
specifically designated to improve the exhibits. Frank
Taylor, a curator in the Arts and Industries Building
and a “museum man” of the Goode mold, wrote a care-
ful justification of the need for $300,000 to fund a
change in the public displays. He became chairman of
an overall exhibits committee that changed the concept
of exhibits throughout the Smithsonian. The others on
this original committee were Paul Gardner, then with
the National Collection of Fine Arts; Herbert Fried-
mann, the curator of birds; and John C. Ewers, associate
curator of anthropology. Ewers, already an outstanding
ethnologist of American Indians when he joined the
staff in 1946, had made displays for the National Park
Service and had planned, designed, and executed the
Plains Indian Museum in Browning, Montana. The Na-
tional Museum hired him with the expectation that
because of his interest and experience, he might be able
to do something to improve the displays in addition to
his research.”

Another key appointment from the standpoint of
exhibits was Clifford Evans, who came to the Depart-
ment of Anthropology in 1951. In the thirty years be-
fore he died, he did a great deal of research on Latin
America in partnership with his wife, Betty Meggers.
He aroused not only his department but the Museum
in general. He was a person of forceful opinions, and
though some of his ideas were not accepted, they were
never ignored.”

Evans and Meggers were intrigued by the new idea
of possible human contact between Japan and South
America, and they soon installed a case with a few ob-
jects and maps near the elevator in the second-floor
west north hall, adjacent to the mummies. It was the
first new scientific exhibit for anthropology in about
forty years. Shortly thereafter, they went into the east

The Exhibits
Family group of Smith
Sound Eskimos from Green-
land, in the Hall of Eskimo

and Indian Groups (Hall 9)
before 1916. The group is
discussed in the Smithsonian
Institution Annual Report
for 1920. To the right,
below the Catlin Indian
paintings, is a case of N orth-
west Coast Indian artifacts,
and between them and the
totem pole is a house front,
mostly obscured by the case.
The totem pole is situated in
Hall 10, to the east.

POLAR ESKIMO
THE NORTHERNMOST PEOPLE OF THE WORLD

Polar Eskimo group, 1956 or 1957. The Bien ae been renamed and Peeled since the 1920s. Located at the south end
of Hall 9, this high-visibility display is seen by anyone walking from the south door to the Museum Shop.

New Faces, New Funds, New Exhibits 87
Design sketch for Hall 11, drawn in the early 1950s before the installation of new and refurbished exhibits. The Hopi snake

dancers are on the south side near the center of the hall.

north hall on the second floor, devoted to South Amer-
ican Indians, and planned a major revision. Because
no one else dared to do it, they came down on a Sat-
urday and painted the back of one mahogany case a
striking blood-red. Assistant Secretary Kellogg stated
that the red had to go, but there was a new Secretary
coming in who, as a psychologist, liked colors and their
effect on the public.

Carmichael Succeeds Wetmore

At the end of 1952 Alexander Wetmore voluntarily
stepped down and went back to work full-time in his
office in the Division of Birds. He commented that he
had “seen the unfortunate results of clinging to posi-
tions too long and [that] he was resolved not to make
that error.’ His successor, Leonard Carmichael, a dis-
tinguished scientist and educator, took office on Jan-
uary 2, 1953, as seventh Secretary of the Smithsonian
Institution.

Carmichael had definite ideas about modernizing the
exhibits and expanding the Institution, and was able
to set them in motion. By June 28, 1955, he had ob-
tained congressional authorization to plan and con-
struct, to the west of the Natural History Building, the
Museum of History and Technology; it was opened to
the public less than nine years later. (The structure is
now called the National Museum of American History,
and demonstrates that it is not a good idea to carve a
name in stone hastily.) Carmichael was able to obtain
significant increases in funding for the modernization
of old exhibits in the Natural History Building, and for
display halls in the new building. He studied the pro-
posal for each new hall carefully, sometimes making
curators squirm if their display concepts were fuzzy.

Major Exhibits Program

There is no question that a major exhibits program was
finally starting at the Smithsonian in the early 1950s.
Many of the staff did not want to be involved in any
such things; for example, Jack Ewers quotes his boss,

88

Herbert Krieger, as insisting that there was no need
for new exhibits, and that the staff need only “polish
up the old Rolls-Royce.” Yet the hall completed by Ev-
ans and Meggers had made every other antiquated hall
look even dowdier by comparison. This convinced some
of the staff that exhibits work could be done, and even
convinced some of the old-timers that it should be done.

John E. Anglim, frustrated during his career as a pot
restorer, now blossomed as a creative designer and dis-
play specialist. He juxtaposed stone tools with drawings
of their present-day morphologic equivalents. His idea
of painting the mahogany cases gray was upsetting to
some curators, but this color emphasized the object
rather than the case. When an electrician suggested
that he could light certain objects better if their posi-
tions in the case were reversed, this was done. Anglim
went on to become the head of the exhibits program.

Meanwhile, Evans and Meggers invented a first-rate
technique for labeling. They would ask one of the paint-
ers to come down off his ladder and read the label; if
he did not understand it, the text was changed. On the
completion of the first new hall, they put up a plaque
listing the names of the carpenters, painters, and elec-
tricians from the shops who had helped construct it.
Despite the tensions built into this kind of work, the
atmosphere was one of celebration. The biggest point
of disagreement was that Anglim detested lavender and
refused each ume Meggers wanted it. (He was prompt
to note that in an electrical fire years later, a doll case
done in lavender was almost the only casualty.)°

New Exhibition Halls

On April 14, 1954, according to the Annual Report, “the
first wholly new exhibition hall to be completed in many
years at the Smithsonian, ‘Highlights of Latin American
Archeology,’ was opened to the public. ... This new
hall shows many departures for us in modern museum
techniques, in lighting, and in the use of color.”° The
press gave it excellent reviews,’ as did the experts and
dignitaries attending its formal opening, the premier

The Exhibits
Hopi Indian snake-dance group in a modern case on the south side of Hall 11; the labels are below, at the front of the case.

A similar photograph appears in the Annual Report for 1955.

cultural event of Pan-American week. Secretary and
Mrs. Carmichael, in order to be present, gave up the
voyage on the Queen Mary that they had planned and
traveled to Europe by air instead.

The following year saw the opening of “Indians of
the Americas” (Hall 11) on the first floor in the west
north range. This was the first overhauling clearly un-
der the aegis of Friedmann, chairman of the natural
history exhibits group. Ewers, who did an excellent job
on it, described the strong and weak points of the hall
before its renovation:

Visitors to this hall used to be impressed by the
sheer number of exhibits and objects on view—
more than 6,500 specimens. The magnitude of the
collections could be sensed by merely walking
through the hall without stopping to examine a
single exhibit. But what did it all mean? ... Yet
there were islands of interest in that uncharted sea
of information that comprised the old installation.
These were the always popular, large groups of
life-sized figures of Indians wearing real articles of
clothing and engaging in typical activities
demonstrating the making or uses of tools and

New Faces, New Funds, New Exhibits

domestic utensils, weapons and handicrafts. These
exhibits were designed by the talented artist-
anthropologist, William H. Holmes, some of them
more than half a century ago. They were some of
the oldest exhibits in the museum. Yet they
possessed human interest qualities which attracted
the attention of museum visitors of all ages and
both sexes. However these groups were glassed on
four sides. Their effectiveness was hampered by
inadequate lighting. Their realism was impaired by
the distracting sight of adjoining cases crowded
with unrelated materials showing through their
plate-glass backgrounds.

Problems of modernizing exhibits in an old
museum differ considerably from those of
developing an entirely new one. The legacy of
high ceilings, internal pillars, large windows,
antiquated heating, lighting and ventilating systems
impose very real problems. Still more obvious are
overall space problems.*

In addition to the old life-size figures, some miniature
dioramas were prepared. (It costs far less to make a
small figure than a large one, and only few new large

89
ako 4

Installing a whale skeleton in the Hall of Osteology (Hall
28), 1961 or 1962. This is the first exhibit at the rotunda
entrance to the hall. Left to right: Leonard Blush, Frank
Greenwell, Leon Frederich, Watson Perrygo, and Carleton

manikins have come into the exhibits in recent decades.)
“Indians of the Americas,” all in all, was a good hall in
content, design, and display, and it attracted interest.
Sull, everything depends on the observer. One day when
Ewers was walking through the hall, he saw a small boy
standing entranced in front of the case of Hopi Indian
ceremonial snake dancers. The boy yelled for his father
to come. “So what?” said the father, taking a look. “It’s
just a fellow chewing on a snake.”

Next to come was the bird exhibit in Hall 13, in the
west wing on the first floor. Herbert Friedmann had
been thinking about how he would like to change this
display almost from the day he joined the staff. Watson
Perrygo did most of the work—and did most of it within
a year. The day before the hall was scheduled to open,
in March 1956, a stepladder toppled into a case, and
everyone worked all night to repair specimens and build
a new Case.

90

Lingebach; the three standing were temporary employees. A

photograph of the completed exhibit appears in the Annual
Report of 1964.

Next to open was Hall 26 on the second floor, above
the American Indian Hall. “Everyday Life in Colonial
America” displaced the lace and the chickens, and
whether one called it ethnology or cultural history, it
was a major improvement. Because of the ultraconser-
vatism of head curator Setzler and curator Krieger, it
had been impossible for Malcolm Watkins, hired in
fiscal year 1949, to do anything that deviated one iota
from the routine; but Friedmann, as exhibits chairman,
recognized the problem and got around it by ordering
Watkins in writing to prepare plans for a new hall im-
mediately. This administrative ploy—Watkins’s idea—
worked, and the hall was started. The timing was not
the best, since the contract for the new hall was followed
in a matter of weeks by the authorization for building
the new Museum of History and Technology. But al-
though this hall thus ended up being dismantled and
moved out within a few years, it was another fine ex-

The Exhibits
hibit, appreciated by the local press: “Advances in mod-
ern lighting and electronics, used by the Institution for
the first time, unobtrusively make the hall come alive.
The visitor entering the hall will automatically activate
a ‘proximity switch’ to start a tape recording that briefs
him on what he will see.”

One day, at the time “Everyday Life” was being in-
stalled, the elevator shaft was found teeming with thou-
sands of ants, and panic ensued. Remington Kellogg
put out an emergency call for Jack Clarke of the Di-
vision of Entomology. Clarke was at lunch, and tele-
phone messages arrived every few minutes in his office.
After Clarke returned and took a quick look, he had
a good laugh. The Museum was not being invaded by
ants. These were carpenter ants from the dismantled
old Colonial houses, and now that spring had come,
they were trying to get outdoors to build a nest. As
Clarke predicted, the ants were gone the following day.

Exhibits Philosophy

The new exhibits program was well under way before
its philosophy was articulated by director Kellogg, or
whoever wrote the Annual Report for the year ending
June 30, 1957. “The curators of the National Museum
have twofold objective in planning their halls and ex-

hibits,” it read—‘“to give the Museum visitor the ex-
perience of viewing objects of significant historical or
scientific interest and rarity; and to show these objects
in exhibits so effectively explanatory that they increase
the visitor’s knowledge, not only of the object, but also
of the history, science, technology, or art to which the
object relates. The attainment of this objective and the
authenticity, scholarship, and factual content which dis-
tinguish the exhibits reflect the devoted and time-
consuming work of many busy scientists and historians
of the curatorial staff.”!”

Even though Ewers was in charge of all exhibit plan-
ning for fifty-five halls in the yet-to-be-opened Museum
of History and Technology, he completed a second
display in the Museum of Natural History devoted to
Indian and Eskimo cultures. Opened in December 1957,
this exhibit (Hall 9) was linked to Ewers’s first anthro-
pological hall by a map adjacent to the north elevators.
The exhibits collectively were called “The Native Peo-
ples of North America.” A dramatic open case of wooden
masks had to be removed later for security reasons after
a few youngsters jumped into it.

When it came time for the biological halls to be re-
vised, the American buffalo group Hornaday had pre-
pared in 1888 was removed from public view and dis-

TABLE 1: Openings of Major Natural History Exhibits: 1954-1967

Hall 23

Hall 11

Hall 13

Hall 26

Hall 12

Hall 9

Hall 19

Halls 14 and 15
Hall 4

Hall 5

Hall 3

Hall 21

Hall 8

Hall 22

Hall 16

Hall 2

Part of Hall 19
Part of Hall 20
Hall 25

Hall 28

Part of Hall 29
Hall 7

Highlights of Latin American Archeology
American Indian Hall

Birds of the World

Everyday Life in Early America
North American Mammals

North American Indians and Eskimos
Hall of Gems and Minerals

The World of Mammals

Fossil Plants and Invertebrates

The Age of Mammals in North America
Fossil Reptiles and Amphibians

North American Archeology 1
Cultures of the Pacific and Asia
North American Archeology 2

Life in the Sea

Hall of Fossil Reptiles

Gem and Jade Halls (revised)

Hall of Meteorites

Physical Anthropology

Osteology

Cold-blooded Vertebrates

Cultures of Africa and East Asia

New Faces, New Funds, New Exhibits

April 14, 1954
June 2, 1955
March 22, 1956
January 26, 1957
April 30, 1957
December 8, 1957
July 31, 1958
November 25, 1959
June 6, 1961

June 6, 1961

June 6, 1961

June 24, 1961
June 25, 1962
November 16, 1962
February 18, 1963
June’ 25; 1963
Summer, 1965
December, 1966
Spring 1965(?)
Fiscal Year 1965
Fiscal Year 1966(?)
August 25, 1967

91]
mantled. Buried in the plaster below the largest buffalo
was a tin box containing two 1887 issues of the magazine
Cosmopolitan, with articles by Hornaday. At the top of
one article, Hornaday had written:

To my illustrious Successor:
Dear Sir:

Enclosed please find a brief and truthful account
of the capture of the specimens which comprise
this group. The old bull, the young cow and
yearling calf were killed by yours truly.

When I am dust and ashes I beg you to protect
these specimens from deterioration and
destruction. Of course they are crude productions
in comparison with what you produce, but you
must remember that at this ime (A.D. 1888,
March 7) the American School of ‘Taxidermy has
only just been recognized. Therefore give the devil
his due, and revile not.

W.T. Hornaday'!

The specimens had faded over the years and were
somewhat tattered. They could not be put into the new
exhibit, and buffalo obviously are large and hard to
store, so they were given to the Montana State Museum.
‘Their current status is uncertain. As the last wild Bison
bison shot in America for display in a museum, the
group has considerable significance. Any buffalo skins
exhibited today are from domesticated herds, but it was
primarily as a result of Hornaday’s concern that the
American buffalo was saved from extinction. The In-
stitution lost a part of its history when the specimens
left the building.

More New Halls

Major new mammal exhibits were badly needed. Leon-
hard Stejneger had been against habitat groups, ac-
cording to Edward Henderson, because he wanted the
visitor to be able to view the animals from all sides. He
would not even permit a blue sky background to be
installed behind the mountain goats. While a few hab-
itat groups had been installed in the early 1950s, after
Stejneger’s death, the halls as a whole reflected his pre}-
udice.

The North American Mammals hall, completed in
1957, was done in segments, part of it having opened
the year before. The hall included a display of Rocky
Mountain sheep that Secretary Walcott had obtained
for the Philadelphia Sesquicentennial exhibit, and which
Perrygo had first worked on in 1925. During the in-
terval before the mammal halls were finished, Secretary
Carmichael held the annual dinner for the Board of
Regents in the west wing of the main building, giving
the regents a close-up view of the progress of the new
exhibits program. The two halls comprising “The World
of Mammals” were opened in 1959. That work was
supervised by Henry W. Setzer, an outspoken mam-
malogist hired in 1948 whose principal interest was

92

small mammals from Africa.

George Switzer and Paul E. Desautels were respon-
sible for the Hall of Gems and Minerals, opened in the
summer of 1958. Switzer, who joined the staff in 1948,
became the first head of Mineral Sciences when the
Department of Geology was split into departments of
Paleobiology and Mineral Sciences. Desautels was hired
in 1957, in part to assist with the new hall, and he later
went on to increase the holdings of gems and minerals
significantly. Rolland Hower of Exhibits designed the
new display cases. Understatement being an old Smith-
sonian tradition, the case introducing the world’s finest
mineral collection was labeled simply “The Smithsonian
Mineral Collection.” Five months after the hall opened,
the Hope Diamond was presented to the Institution
and installed in a safe specially built into the display.
The Jade Room, just to the north of the gem hall, also
opened in 1958.

By this time the new exhibit halls had begun to crowd
the old ones, and the National Collection of Fine Arts,
while holding on to Hall 10 on the first floor, gave up
some space on the second floor in Hall 22. “Twenty oil
portraits of World War II leaders by John C. Johansen
and pastel drawings of the Civil War Veterans by Walter
Beck have been removed from the second floor gallery
and are to be installed at the south end of the foyer
together with the miniature portraits in specially lighted
cases,” read the National Collection’s report for 1958.'*
For what was supposed to have been a temporary gal-
lery to have lasted more than thirty years does afford
some perspective on just how badly the new exhibits
program was needed.

June 1961 was the crest of the wave. Waldo Wedel
opened a hall of American Indian life on the east side
of the second floor, “North American Archeology 1.”
On the east side of the first floor, a hall of invertebrates
and plants, supervised by G. A. Cooper and opened on
June 6, constituted a quantum jump over the old fossil
hall; its stellar attraction was a series of wax reconstruc-
uons of sea-bottom life.

“The Age of Mammals in North America,” which
opened the same night, was the project of Lewis Gazin,
who had joined the staff in 1932, spent a long time in
the war, and returned in 1946, the same year Gilmore
died. This hall included the first of a series of mag-
nificant murals painted on plaster by Jay H. Matternes.
Even twenty years ago it was difficult to find a plasterer
who could prepare the proper rough coat and finish
coat for a fresco surface, yet this specialized art is even
more refined today; one can scarcely tell where the case
ends and the background begins. W.H. Holmes would
have appreciated the Matternes mural, a combination
of excellent science and excellent art.

An alcove of fossil fishes and amphibians, opened
informally a year earlier, was polished up by the ad-
dition of a diorama and included in the grand opening.
The late David Dunkle, who had joined the Department

The Exhibits
Preparatory sketch for the
Maya Sculpture Group, por-
traying stoneworking at
Mila. This group was made
for the 1916 Panama-Cali-
fornia International Exposi-
tion in San Diego. For many
years, a case with these two
figures stood near the north
end of Hall 23. In notes
accompanying this pre-1915
sketch, William Henry
Holmes wrote detailed
descriptions of the clothing,
stone, and tools to be
depicted. Copied from an
unpublished sketch by
Holmes in his “Random
Records.”

Py 3 ie > Sapeatiesl
mi ¥ re : "A < cn < 5 _ . y ee]
q Sagi” < dy z Eat ° ®. :
sh" ia Sw eee a om eS

The Maya carvers, constructed from the sketch by Holmes. this stood near the north stairs, not far from the entrance to
The exhibit was refurbished, as indicated by the large, the second-floor hall (Hall 23) that was completed by
raised lettering on the back wall of the case. For many years Clifford Evans and Betty Meggers.

New Faces, New Funds, New Exhibits 93
of Geology in 1947, supervised this section. He esti-
mated that in the week before the alcove was opened
he was summoned there at least once an hour because
someone had put down a model of a fish and could
not remember whether it should point to the right or
to the left when mounted. The fossil mammal hall was
a long way from finished, and more Matternes murals
were to come; but since the first days of the “New
National Museum” it had been standard practice to
open a hall just as soon as there was something to show
the public, and hope that later there would be time to
add objects and correct mistakes. Of course this seldom
happens, for curators and exhibits people always have
more pressing concerns than revising recently opened
halls.

Eugene Knez and Gordon Gibson, both hired by the
Department of Anthropology in 1959, were informed
that they were expected to prepare halls promptly, and
together with Saul Reisenberg, who joined the staff in
1957, they established an informal group to review one
another’s ideas and exhibit scripts. Reisenberg’s part of
the “Cultures of the Pacific and Asia” project was fin-
ished first; 1t began with an Easter Island head that had
been on display in the original National Museum. The
remainder of Hall 8 was done by Knez.

New Division, New Museum

Development of the Museum of History and ‘Tech-
nology, although the building was sull incomplete, led
to Malcolm Watkins’s transfer to that staff. A new Di-
vision of Musical Instruments was formed, and pro-
duced a temporary exhibit in Hall 8 before the per-
manent installation of the Pacific exhibit. The division
then moved to History and Technology, but old-timers
in the Museum of Natural History will never forget the
pianos of the priceless Worch Collection, a real treas-
ure. Adjacent to the old mineral hall stood the tiny
piano built for the midget “General Tom Thumb,” made
famous by P.T. Barnum.

Unul the 1960s, unfortunately, there was no one on
the staff to care for the instruments, and there was no
space whatever for storing them properly except for
one small spot on the second-floor rotunda balcony.
Pianos, harpsichords, clavichords, and virginals were
stacked three and four high in the stairwells and all
around the third-floor rotunda balcony. One particu-
larly hot summer day, the glue holding the legs of one
instrument gave way, and the sound of musical anguish
when it crashed, amplified by the dome, was a noise
that will not be forgotten by anyone who heard it. When
offices on the third floor of the east range were vacated
by employees migrating to the Museum of History and
Technology, walls were torn down and space was used
for storing human skeletons in drawers.

Herbert Friedmann Moves On
On May 31, 1961, Herbert Friedmann retired after

94

thirty-two years at the Museum of Natural History;
perhaps “retired” is not quite the proper word, for he
left to become director of the Los Angeles County Mu-
seum. In a place that has housed many erudite and
witty people, Friedmann stood out. Not only did he
study birds directly, but he wrote on such subjects as
the symbolism of the goldfinch in medieval art. One
day he passed a youngish inhabitant of the building
who had grown a beard over the summer. He said, “I
see you are down to your secondary sex characteristics,”
and walked on."’

By the ume of Friedmann’s retirement, the Museum’s
“continuous modernization program” had been in ef-
fect for eight and a half years. As the Annual Report
summed it up, “nine of the fifteen galleries on the first
floor and four second-floor halls had been renovated
and opened to public view. Each hall has presented
distinct problems in exhibition because of the different
subject matter interpreted in each. However, each ren-
ovated gallery reveals marked improvements in the or-
ganization of topics, in the attractiveness of presenta-
tion, and in the simplicity of labelling that combine to
make it a much more effective educational medium
than was the series of exhibits that occupied the hall
prior to modernization.”'' The general supervision of
the exhibits program was taken over by A.C. Smith,
and when Smith moved up to Assistant Secretary, T. Dale
Stewart had the job. But the director of the Museum
had many problems to worry about, and the exhibits
did not receive the same attention that Herbert Fried-
mann had given them.

Three More Halls

Fiscal year 1963 was again an important time for ex-
hibits; three major halls opened. Waldo Wedel com-
pleted his second hall of North American Archeology
in the east north range of the second floor. While both
these halls were far better than what had been there
earlier, neither Hall 21 nor Hall 22 was dramatic or
inspired, as Wedel, who never particularly liked ex-
hibits work, will be the first to say. A superb field man
and a member of the National Academy of Sciences,
Wedel was hired in 1936, and like Cooper, was not
promoted for thirteen years until Neil Judd, the person
in front of him, retired.’” In 1983 Hall 21 was closed
off to be used as a staging area for moving collections
from the building, and in 1984 Hall 22 was closed off
for the same purpose.

The Dinosaur Hall was done by Nicholas Hotton III,
who joined the Department of Geology in 1959. This
hall entailed major construction; a large balcony was
built to increase the display area and to reduce the effect
of the high ceiling. A stairway led from the balcony to
the moon rock display in Hall 22, opened for the na-
tion’s bicentennial. Diplodocus longus was displayed in a
smaller area than before because the east end of the
hall, below the balcony, was walled off. A popular
New mammal hall in the 1960s, with a habitat group of h
Hall 15 upon entering from the rotunda.

item was a large dinosaur bone that tourists could touch,
but they could no longer walk under the specimen.
Across the rotunda, the Hall of Ocean Life was less
than satisfactory, and some staff members still consider
the term “disaster area” more appropriate for it. The
old whale model, based on measurements taken of a
beached specimen, left the impression that the creature
was nearly as flat as a pancake. The prime feature of
the renovated hall, “Life in the Sea,” was the new, ninety-
two-foot model of a great blue whale. During its con-
struction, someone removed the wrong rope and the
head fell off with two people inside, but fortunately
they were not hurt and only a small dent was put in
the fiberglass. It was common practice for the director,
Remington Kellogg, to stop by nearly every day and
tell the whale-construction crew that he was going to
retire as soon as the model was completed. One day he
noted the slow rate of progressing by observing, “You
sons-of-bitches will keep me working forever.”

New Faces, New Funds, New Exhibits

artebeest (Alcelaphus) to the reght—the first exhibit one sees in

Kellogg did retire, and the hall, although it was in-
complete, was dedicated and opened in February 1963.
An elongate balcony had been installed opposite the
whale, partly to simulate the side of a ship and allow a
view of the whale from the side. The balcony was used
for only a few months for one temporary exhibit, and
none of the dioramas planned for it had been installed
before the stairway to it was declared unsafe. The bal-
cony has been closed off ever since.

In one incident, humorous only in retrospect, a vis-
itor wrote to point out that a California abalone shell
on display was not of legal size. He donated a larger
one, just in case the Museum did not have a proper
specimen. A letter of thanks was sent, but a year later
the same person wrote that he had visited again and
the display had not been changed. One of the curators
of mollusks replied by explaining how hard it was to
have an exhibit changed—an accurate statement. About
forty-eight hours later there was an inquiry from the

95
office of one of the California congressmen, and almost
immediately the display was corrected. In contrast to
this rapid change, David Pawson, who joined Inver-
tebrate Zoology in 1964, recalls being taken through
the same hall when he first arrived and noting a sand
dollar oriented upside down in a case. When he men-
tioned this, the person from Exhibits who was guiding
him replied in all seriousness that they were so back-
logged, it would be nine years before any changes could
be made. Pawson filed this fact away, and nine years
later wrote a memorandum to have the error corrected.

Exhibits Work Continues

On January 22, 1964, the Museum of History and Tech-
nology was dedicated. Attention focused on it, not on
Natural History, and the year was one of only partial
accomplishment in exhibits. Knez got his part of a hall
open; Wedel reinstalled a life-size diorama originally
constructed by Holmes. A portion of the osteology hall
was finished and opened informally; Jay Matternes
completed another mural. Even if there had been more
to record, the change from the Annual Report to Smith-
sonian Year in 1964 resulted in much less detailed style
of accounting. For example: “Members of the curatorial
staff participated in the planning and design of the hall
of osteology, which opened during the year, and hall
of cold-blooded vertebrates. The latter is in process of
construction, and considerable progress has been made
in obtaining material for the tropical and habitat cases.” !”
There is no indication in the departmental files when
either display was opened. A projected fish hall never
materialized.

“Cultures of Africa and East Asia,” which opened in
1967, was a hall that posed interesting problems. ‘The
first hurdle faced by Gordon Gibson in installing the
African portion of the hall was the Henry Ward be-
quest. Ward was a British sculptor who had lived in
Africa as a plantation manager and then opened a stu-
dio in Paris.'’ When he died he left his collection to the
Smithsonian, with the proviso that it be exhibited as it
had been in his studio. Clearly there were some ad-
vantages in rearranging objects and moving some of
the statues, and equally clearly there were legal obsta-
cles. Gibson eventually got Kellogg’s permission to look

96

into the matter. At the me the Smithsonian had no
legal counsel, so Gibson walked across the street to the
Department of Justice and found an assistant attorney
general willing to help. Gibson wrote to all of Ward’s
descendants and obtained permission for legal action.
The case went to a judge for consideration under an
obscure principle allowing speculation as to what the
donor might have done had he known the present cir-
cumstances. The judge ruled that Ward would have
been sympathetic toward a new display, and the direc-
tor’s permission to modify the donation was forthcom-
ing.

For Knez’s part of the hall, John Weaver of Exhibits
had sculpted life-size figures of Chinese Opera actors
that made men dressed in women’s costumes still look
like men, and he had prepared two-dimensional Ko-
rean manikins standing in a house doorway so that they
appeared three-dimensional. For Gibson, Weaver made
a diorama of northern Cameroon showing half a dozen
one-sixth-life-size figures engaged in smelting iron. From
sketches left by Ward he sculpted a huge figure of a
warrior brandishing a spear, which was cast in bronze
for the display. The hall got rave reviews, and all the
papers photographed the statue.'* Weaver wanted his
name on the warrior, but the exhibits office refused
because his Civil Service job ttle was model maker, not
sculptor. Weaver quit.

The new exhibits program in the Museum, begun in
the 1950s, had now run its course, so far as natural
history was concerned. Progress in the last stages was
by individual cases, not by halls. The Smithsonian’s
exhibits program had different outlets, partly because
of the great amount of work needed in the new Museum
of History and Technology. The Institution had new
art galleries opening, and many temporary exhibits were
being made for all its various museums and for the
Smithsonian Institution ‘Traveling Exhibition Service,
launched in 1951.

After the mid-1960s, the staff of the Museum of
Natural History gradually shifted its attention back to
collections and research. Sull, the new exhibits had
pushed the Museum from the 1920s to the 1960s, in a
single decade. Oo

The Exhibits
THE ANCESTRAL GODS

: Ades? $y Ne
Easter Island head acquired in 1887 and installed in the 1962, where this photograph was published, noted that the
U.S. National Museum the following year. This is the first specimen is ten feet high. The headpiece, however, has a
display one sees in “Cultures of the Pacific and Asia” (Hall different catalogue number than the statue.

8), entering from the rotunda. The Annual Report for

New Faces, New Funds, New Exhibits 97
Chapter 12

New Wings
and a New Elephant

HE ROTUNDA IS A GRAND architectural feature.
However, no one seems to have known what to
do with it. At first the architects had a skylight above
the rotunda, but this gave a bizarre roofline to the
building. Their next conception was a large dome with
enormous bull’s-eye windows, followed by the winged-
statue-topped model. Even though Hornblower and
Marshall were overruled on the ornate French Second
Empire-style dome, they persisted, and in 1909 rec-
ommended St. Gaudens’s Victory as the statue for the
center of the rotunda. Mercifully, this idea was rejected.
When the iron grilles were installed on the doors in
June 1911, and the public finally could use the main
entrance to the building, cases of large mammals were
in the rotunda. For a time a giraffe was centered below
the dome. Later, various statues flanked the ambula-
tory. For a brief time in the 1940s a giant blue vase
stood in the center. During much of the 1950s the
rotunda was empty, save for the guards’ desk and the
benches under the ambulatory. It was not until 1959
that a proper rotunda-sized exhibit was installed: the
largest mounted elephant in the world.

An Awe-inspiring Sight
While some staff members regard the elephant as just
another animal on display, it is an awe-inspiring sight.
Shot November 13, 1955, by J.J. Fénykovi near the
Cuito River in Angola, the elephant was skinned in a
single piece weighing over two tons. The 1,800 pound
skull also was collected, along with the leg bones and
the two tusks, each of ninety-six pounds’ weight. Fényk6évi
wrote in 1956, “I have decided to let a big museum
have him. There, reconstructed by their experts, he can
stand in all the size and majesty he enjoyed in life—the
biggest elephant ever shot by man.”! (A larger specimen
has since been reported.)

According to one story, Fénykovi first approached
the British Museum (Natural History), but they de-

Building the manikin for the Fénykovi elephant in Hall 16,
before the clay fell off, 1958. The entrance to the rotunda
is behind the elephant.

99

clined the specimen because they already had a group
of elephants in the center hall. According to another
story, a member of the American consular staff in An-
gola read about the animal’s being killed and cabled
the State Department, which informed the Smithson-
ian. Whatever the true story, the elephant arrived from
the field. Although a truckload of salt had been dumped
on the skin in the field to preserve it, the untanned
hide reeked, and those who worked at the west loading
dock, where it was stored for months, still remember
iE;

William L. Brown, the chief taxidermist, prepared
an account of what was involved in mounting this el-
ephant. It is worth quoting in full, for a similar pro-
cedure, although on a smaller scale, has been used for
some of the mammal groups on display.

When the hide arrived at the Museum it was in
one piece so it had to be cut into three parts for
tanning. Then a wooden armature, two or three
inches under life-size was so constructed as to be
disassembled into three sections, head and neck,
and two body halves. This supported the water
clay used to make the life-size model. ‘To support
the armature four giant A-shaped trusses were
made in order to take care of the heavy weight
during construction. Because of the lack of
humidity in the hall where the work was being
done, a large plastic housing was built around the
frame. Into this a steam line was inserted in order
to maintain a high humidity, thus preventing any
drying of the clay while modeling.

When the model was completed the hide was
placed over it, adjusted, and worked on until every
wrinkle was restored and a life-like appearance
produced. After this, a plaster of paris mold,
reinforced with sisal fiber, was made over each of
the sections to hold the skin in exact position while
the work proceeded. To strengthen each heavy
plaster of paris mold, wooden beams were
attached, to which hoists would be fastened later.
At this stage the plastic housing was removed.
Ni Lier

Taxidermy shop in Butler building, west court, with the Fénykévi elephant skin on the floor. Probably 1958.

After this, each of the three sections was lowered
to the floor by two two-ton hoists.

Then all inner armature, clay, wire, and so
forth, were removed, leaving the elephant skin
attached to the outside mold. When the skin had
been thoroughly cleaned, a layer of plaster of paris
about “%4 inch thick was applied. This held the skin
between two layers of plaster while drying. When
thoroughly dry the inner coating of plaster was
carefully removed; three layers of burlap and two
layers of aluminum screenwire, each reinforced
with papier mache were laminated to the hide.
This construction produced a thin manikin, very
tough and durable, about 2 inch thick.

Next, another internal armature of seasoned
wooden ribs was built and fastened to the inside of
the manikin for support. At this stage the outer
wooden frame and plaster mold were removed.

After the mold was removed, the body halves
were joined together from within by bolting.
Papier maché was then applied to the seams.

The head was treated the same as the two halves
except for support. A wooden structure was made
inside the head to hold a long beam from which
the head would be supported when attached to the
body. The tusks were inserted and the head was
fastened to the body halves. After the seams had
been sealed, the finishing touches, such as setting
the eyes and restoring the color of the hide, were
made.”

The elephant’s blown-glass eyes were hand-painted, the
legs were filled with sand, and the tusks were artificial

100

the originals weighed too much.

The mounting took about sixteen months and was
done to the west of the rotunda in the Hall of the Sea,
which was closed for a number of years while the el-
ephant and the whale were constructed. After most of
the clay had been put on the manikin, the clay dried
out and collapsed; it was only after that setback that
the plastic tent and steam house were used. The taxi-
dermists had to work in bathing suits because of the
high humidity. When the elephant was moved into the
rotunda, it cleared the door frame by one and one-half
inches. For those who wonder how the head was at-
tached, there is a trap door in the belly of the elephant,
with the seams at folds in the skin where they cannot
be seen.

There was a great deal more to the job on the ele-
phant than just the mechanics. Neal Deaton, one of the
taxidermists, also wrote an account, emphasizing the
study that was done of living animals in zoos and of
movies taken by hunting parties. “Selecting the final
position came only after much deliberation and thought,”
he wrote. “There was some suspicion of an over-dramatic
attitude, for fear it would cheapen the final effect and
lessen its majestic quality. On the other hand, if the
animal were mounted in a still position it might appear
too statuesque. It was agreed to put the specimen in a
fast walking shuffle, the head erect and slightly turned,
scenting with its trunk. The ears were positioned to
show their characteristic flapping motion. The position
was planned to give an impressive picture of an active
elephant in a somewhat suspicious attitude, displaying
its massive bulk and strength.”

The Exhibits
The Fénykovi elephant as
decorated by the Women’s
Committee of the Smithson-
ian Associates for a medieval
Christmas, December 8,
1978.

Elephant Unveiled

The elephant was unveiled in March 1959. Shortly
thereafter, William L. Brown retired, leaving the ani-
mal to mark his career of almost half a century at the
Museum, and Neal Deaton left to set up his own busi-
ness. Frank Greenwell remains as the only taxidermist
who worked on the elephant—indeed, the only taxi-
dermist left on the Museum staff. About twenty years
afterward, Greenwell and his wife, Pat, spend six weeks
repairing the skin. In 1983 Greenwell gave the elephant
new fiberglass tusks made in the Exhibits Department
model shop.

The platform around the elephant has been modified
several times. For a few weeks a piece of elephant hide
was placed on the railing so that tourists could feel it,
but when the skin wore out it was not replaced, because
the African elephant had become an endangered spe-
cies. At one point the elephant was wired for sound,
and trumpeting noises shook the dome every fifteen
minutes; fortunately, this was discontinued. A record-
ing about the elephant was added for those desiring
more information than the label supplies. A skeleton
of a pygmy elephant to place beside the big one was
contracted for, but the skeleton turned out to be largely
plaster reconstruction rather than authentic bone, and
the contract was canceled.

The elephant 1s the subject of a couple of anecdotes
that are part of the oral tradition of the Museum. As
indicated, the animal is in a walking position with trunk
and tail outstretched. No one will confirm it, but Sec-
retary Carmichael is supposed to have been so aghast
at the sight of the large open anus that he issued orders

New Wings and a New Elephant

lia 4

The elephant on December 14, 1979, when the Christmas
dance of the Women’s Committee had the theme of “Babar
Visits America.”

10]
NATIONAL MUSEUM
INCLUDIN
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION a 5

:

—,
ae

STREET
|
|
|
|

: fall paves Axis of Mall 4

Proposal for wings to be added to the new National
Museum; from Rathbun, 1918. The suggested building to
the right is now the site of an ice-skating rink across from
the National Archives.

for it to be sewn up. Phe comments attributed to As-
sistant Secretary Kellogg are unprintable. It is a fact
he had taxi-
dermists check into unsewing the elephant. After study-

that when Porter Kier became director,

ing and photographing some elephants in the zoo, they
reported that the African elephant’s anus is hidden by
skin wrinkles except when actually in use.

On April 1, 1960, an elephant-sized pile of dung was
discovered under the animal shortly before the Mu-
seum opened for the day. There was considerable ag-
itauion, compounded when the laborer cleaning up with
shovel and broom objected to pictures. When the fuss
was all over, the dung turned out to be a superb mod-
eling job done in clay by a member of the exhibits staff.
The administration never considered this a humorous
event and spent a long ume trying to track down the
model maker.

It was coincidental that the dedication of the elephant
occurred half a century after the building first opened.
No one mentioned the tming at the dedication cere-
mony. In 1966, for the celebration of the 200th anni-
versary of the birth of James Smithson, banners were
designed for each of the Institution’s bureaus; the one
for the Museum of Natural History featured an ele-
phant. The Museum’s letterhead, more austerely, has
stayed with a drawing of the dome.

East and West Wings

The east and west wings, the largest structural devel-
opment of the building itself since the rotunda dome
was completed, had existed in theory for over forty
years. In 1918 Rathbun gave his opinion that the great-
est need of the Smithsonian Institution was a building
for industrial arts and American history, and that this
building should be followed by construction of a sep-
arate National Gallery of Art. He thought, nevertheless,

102

that wings for the Museum ought to be started promptly.’

By the mid-1920s, Holmes had created considerable
momentum toward a National Gallery of Art building.
While this was still far from materializing, Wetmore in
1928 built on hopes for the gallery in campaigning for
additional space for natural history. He wrote in the
Annual Report:

The ultimate construction of a National Gallery of
Art to which the art collections will be removed
will free a certain amount of space in the Natural
History Building, but that area will be
automatically absorbed by the natural history
exhibits retired to make room for art, and will not
afford necessary relief. There should be added to
the Natural History Building two wings, one on
the east and one on the west, in accordance with
the original plan of the architect for this structure.
These, with the same height as the present
building will give needed space for the
tremendously valuable research collections and will
relieve crowded laboratories, which in the division
of insects, for example, have become almost
intolerable. ... [I[]n some instances at present four
persons depend upon the light from a single
window for illumination for work requiring
delicate examination, frequently under the
microscope. The additional floor space would also
afford a more logical arrangement of exhibits, a
remodeling of many in more modern form, which
cannot be attempted at present, and a relief from
the present crowding, which is often tring and
confusing to the visitor.’

(It is ironic that Wetmore used the Division of Insects
as an example; thirty-five years later, when the wings
finally were completed, the entomologists still had the
least satisfactory office space.)

Exactly the same words were repeated the following
year in the Annual Report on the Museum. Perhaps these
words were read on the Hill, or possibly the grave prob-
lems of slippage of the keystones of the rotunda arches
(discussed in Chapter 21) focused attention on the
building. A bill was introduced in Congress to authorize
the wings, and to bring home its necessity, Secretary
Abbot declared the building “as crowded as a woman
traveler’s trunk.”

Whatever was the catalyst, “the Smoot-Elhiott bill au-
thorizing the extension of the Natural History Building

. was passed without a dissenting vote. The bill was
approved by the president on June 19, 1930. Under
this authorization it is planned to add to the present
building so that it will extend from Ninth to Twelfth
Street, in general duplicating the present structure, where
the ground floor and third floor are given over to of-
fices and laboratories and the two intermediate floors
are devoted to exhibits.”’ This concept of the wings as
providing a major addition to the exhibit area was quite

The Exhibits
shorhontephe gh phen led ch pheahe-behenhencrbeatbeobe A phe

aay.
= ‘

Aerial view looking south down Tenth Street, showing small
parks on either side of the building, where the wings now
stand. The projections on the south side, at the corner of
each court, house the freight elevators. In the background
are the Freer Gallery to the right of the Castle and the Arts

New Wings and a New Elephant

*

Py ~~ >

Be Matin *
appt

ry) \

and Industries Building to the left. Hains Point is in the
distance, and National Airport, across the river, ts not
particularly busy. The automobiles suggest a date in the
early 1950s.

103
fee eee ae
oe
aio [EEE 5

il

aces ‘een ial ca 4 te oer ao
semanas 4

Ppa nd
L as ieee at eal =
a ait

tT

Sal ae = eee fe sora

it)

jn a
1 |

+ 4 ae

- ADDITIONS -TO:
*NATURAL*HISTORY*BUILDING:
-UNITED: STATES: NATIONAL: MUSEUM -

WASHINGTON DB

A 1931 architectural sketch for the two wings, showing dual courts in each. The architects mislabeled Ninth Street, to the
east of the building; the former B Street to the north has become Constitution Avenue.

different from the offices and storage that were even-
tually constructed.

After the authorization for the wings was given, ar-
chitectural sketches were prepared, and the staff of-
fered suggestions. Hrdlicka submitted a plan for an
elaborate hall of physical anthropology; Wetmore had
practical ideas about elevators, checkine facilities, and
stairways for this proposed new space.” But those fa-
miliar with the methods of Congress know the rela-
tionship of that slippery duo “authorize” and “appro-
priate.” Nothing may be done unless it is authorized.
However, even if permission to perform a parucular
action is given, nothing happens unt money is granted.
Ten thousand dollars for planning was appropriated
in fiscal year 1931, and then momentum toward the
wings stopped. The Annual Report of the Museum de-
livered regular statements on the continually increasing
need for space, but because of the Great Depression
and then World War II, nothing happened. For years
the senior botanist, Conrad Morton, remarked that he
would have wings before the building did.

James Bradley to the Rescue

The next key person in this account was James C. Brad-
ley, first listed in the Annual Report for fiscal year 1959
as an assistant to Secretary Carmichael; Bradley later
became an assistant secretary and finally under secre-
tary. One of his first acts in his new position was to read
the authorization bill passed years earlier. He noted
how little other Smithsonian administrators at the time

104

seemed to know of overall Congressional process. The
authorization for construction had been given in 1930
with the proviso that the cost not exceed $6,500,000—
which, incidentally, was nearly twice the cost of the
original building.

Having digested the bill, Bradley called the General
Services Administration and was advised that Congres-
sional authorization would not have to be renewed if
it could be shown that the new cost estimate was com-
mensurate with the first, given the normal inflation that
had occurred over the intervening years. Next Bradley
went to Arnold Spaatz, a retired Air Force general who
headed the Office of Management and Budget. Spaatz
would have liked to help the Smithsonian, but the con-
struction estimate of $19,000,000 for both wings was
just too high. Bradley then suggested that the construc-
tion start out with one wing. Spaatz agreed, and in May
1960 Congress appropriated a sum that was expected
to cover the renovating and airconditioning of the ex-
isting building, plus the construction of the east wing.
When construction finally began, the addition had overall
dimensions of 190 by 180 feet and consisted of a base-
ment, ground floor, and six upper floors.

Mills, Petticourt, and Mills of Washington, D.C., were
the architects for both wings. The George Hyman Con-
struction Company did a rapid job on the east wing,
and finished the building faster than had been antici-
pated. Its bid for the east wing was actually lower than
budgeted for. With these savings in the kitty, the Smith-
sonian requested and received an additional $4,336,000

The Exhibits
West wing and west side of
the National Museum of
Natural History, looking east
from the roof of the National
Museum of American
History, April 1984. The
flagpole is to the left, on the
north wing. The west-side
loading dock and entrance to
the mail room are in the
parking lot on the

lower right.

cm aaa

fas ono

for the west wing, though no one can say exactly what
each wing cost. Hyman Construction bid on the west
wing and was also awarded that contract. This was a
lucky break for both the Institution and the company,
since the same blueprints could be used; all the engi-
neers had to do was reverse them. Mirror images often
confuse people, and some of the staff who spent much
of their time in one wing get lost when they venture
into the other. The differences between the wings are
minor. A different company supplied passenger ele-
vators for the west wing, and whereas the east wing has
mostly soapstone work sinks in each office, the west
wing has mostly small porcelain hand basins.

Each wing was supposed to add 259,903 square feet
to the building—a precise enough number to satisfy
any bean-counter, though each time the wings are men-
tioned officially, a slightly different figure is given.
Rathbun had estimated that the main building had
158,989 square feet for laboratories and collections,
and 75,856 for all other nonpublic purposes. The wings
almost doubled the laboratory and storage space, as the
new National Museum had done half a century earlier.

“The general arrangement of each floor in the new
wings is essentially standardized,” ran a 1962 report.
“There will be a central area for the appropriate ref-
erence collection, surrounded on the three outside walls
of the wing by a series of workrooms and laboratories.
... All such rooms will have excellent daylight and will
contain the facilities needed for the intended use as
designated by members of the scientific staff, who in
each case have designed the details of their own areas.
On the average, each floor will have between 20 and
30 workrooms or laboratories, and each division will
center its activities with a well-demarcated area.”

New Wings and a New Elephant

Lost Storage Space

Fairly early in the planning, the curators thought that
the support pillars would be one foot square. Instead,
the pillars turned out to be round and nearly three feet
in diameter. As a consequence, about 10 percent of the
central space anticipated for storage cases was lost. Also,
the Fine Arts Commission required that the top floor
be set back, which pared the floor space in each com-
pleted wing to 209,000 square feet.

The architects did a good job on the exterior design
in matching the wing to the old building, from which
it is set back a few feet on the north side. At the lower
level the granite has the same hue, but the surface is
not so strongly rusticated as in the main structure. Un-
like the ten-inch-thick granite of the main building, the
stone of the wings is a veneer. The metal-framed win-
dows pivot to open, and are placed in groups of three.
These window groups are about as wide as the window
openings in the main building. Rectangular metal pieces
of the same color as the window frames and above each
window add to the illusion of long windows, as in the
main building. Because the top floor is set back behind
a parapet, the windows there do not contrast with the
prominent stone molding around the windows on the
third floor of the main building. The freight elevator
does not run to the sixth floor because the Fine Arts
Commission judged that its extension above the sixth
floor would give an unacceptable appearance to the
root line.

At the east and west ends of the wings there are
double doors, locked except during fire drills. On the
north side, sidewalks lead from Constitution Avenue
to an entryway and lobby. During the first few months
of occupancy these doors were open in the east wing,

105
but because this required an additional guard, they
were closed and have not been reopened. The doors
in the west wing never have been used.

On the interior, the ground floor and the second,
fourth, and sixth floors connect to the main building.
The north side of each lobby contains two automatic
elevators; each wing has one stairwell adjacent to the
elevators and another near its south corner. Freight
elevators on the south side of each wing open into both
the wing and the main building. Every floor has two
sets of toilets. Except for the polished limestone in the
lobbies, never seen by the public, the wings are utli-
tarian.

Remington Kellogg, then director, insisted that the
curators personally lay out and design office space, and
this took a lot of time. Cooper drew the plumbing and
sinks on the outside walls, as they had been in the main
building, and was told to do it over because the plumb-
ing had to be on interior walls. He grumbled, but rede-
signed. Fortunately for everyone, Cooper had read the
specificauions of the General Services Administration
and pointed out that these quarters were to be labo-
ratories, not offices; an office is rather rigidly defined
in terms of square feet, whereas a laboratory is not.
Had the term “office” been used further in official
correspondence, everything would have had to be
changed. Parts of the west wing have much less space
for the individual scientist because they are offices.

Work Gets Under Way

As with the original building, construcuon began on
the east side. There was no ground-breaking ceremony;
the contractor began work as early as he could in 1961.
Shortly after the first bulldozer appeared to dig the
foundation, the heavy equipment broke into Tiber Creek.
This creek had meandered across the swamp of the
pre-Mall era to the barge canal that flowed where Con-
stitution Avenue is now. Decades earlier, Tiber Creek
had been enclosed in a massive brick tunnel and buried
about twenty feet underground. Now it ran across the
corner of the building site, so it was dug up, moved,
and again sealed away from view, this ume in concrete.
Because there was some movement in the foundation
of the main building, heavy collections of fossil plants
were immediately moved from the east north range
into the first story of the new wing, even before the
walls were up. Later the plants were moved again, to
the fourth floor of the wing.

Only one or two people on the ground floor lost their
offices, and the vertebrate paleontology laboratory was
able to continue work, despite the disappearance of all
its windows. The breaking down of walls uncovered
swarms of albino cockroaches, and one staff member
remembers how eagerly the entomologists stalked these
unusual specimens. Many people were temporarily in-
convenienced by the noise and dust, but the work pro-
gressed rapidly. By wintertime, construction had reached

106

the level of the third floor of the main Museum build-
ing. Several offices in the east range had to be sacrificed,
and the construction crews hung canvas over the open-
ings they had broken in the wall. One day it was so cold
that ice formed in the sinks in adjacent offices.

The east wing had acres of cement flooring that re-
mained vacant for weeks. After the cases were brought
in, gray tile was laid around the perimeter and brown
tile in the aisles between the cases. Every time a Case is
moved—admittedly a rare event—the bare cement floor
is exposed, and tile that does not match either color
has to be laid. The contractors did learn, however, and
the floors of the west wing were tiled in one color, before
the collections moved in. Raised phone jacks and elec-
trical outlets put in the middle of the floor had been
found objectionable in the east wing, yet the same de-
sign was used in the west wing.

Moving into the East Wing

By the end of June 1962, the east wing was nearly
done—plastered on the inside and finished on the out-
side, except for some miscellaneous caulking and clean-
ing. On August 16, the new occupants began to move
in. Nicholas Hotton believes that he was the first to
establish an office in the new wing; he was on the north
side of the first floor with the other vertebrate paleon-
tologists.

The move itself went extremely well, and though it
was hard physical work and the whole process took
about six months, everyone who participated recalls the
time with pleasure. Curators lugged cases along with
workmen. Not a single drawer was dropped. One of
the items that sticks in the memory was moving some
cases of Geological Survey fossils in the third-floor hall
and uncovering a door that had been hidden for dec-
ades. On it was lettered the name of E. O. Ulrich, then
dead for twenty years. One social event was a party
given by S. H. Mamay to dedicate the paleobotanical
library, in which he installed the painting Death Pre-
ferred. A lot of people marveled at all the empty space
in the new wing. Cooper, ever the realist, is reported
to have said, “It won't last long.”

According to plan, the east wing was to accommodate
the Division of Birds on the top floor, the Division of
Mollusks on a large part of the fifth floor, and “prac-
tically all the functions of the Department of Geology
and the activities associated with it” on the remaining
four and one-half floors.'® This basic layout was not
followed entirely, for the anthropologists were given
about one-third of the fifth floor for a storage area. As
a consequence, Tertiary fossils had to be distributed
beween the fourth floor and the basement.

The basement was designed for indoor parking, and
for about fifteen months many employees lived in the
lap of luxury. It soon became obvious that the wing was
full, and the cars were pushed out to make room for
collections and some of the shops. The entrance to the

The Exhibits
We Dipeaih
iy aaa
Pak ee
ee

a ee ee ee |

a
|
a
a
a
w
|
a
a
‘|
a
|
a
a
w
w

basement was too low to admit a large truck, and twenty
years later, when the fossils were being moved to the
new Silver Hill facility, this architectural oversight led
to strong words.

The Arrival of Air Conditioning

Air conditioning came in with the new wing. Old-tumers
hailed it as a momentous break with the past, and Frank
Taylor, then director of the United States National Mu-
seum, produced a nice homily on the occasion: “Visiting
the Museum is now much more pleasant for the hundreds
of thousands of summer visitors, who as a result, are
induced to stay longer and absorb more of the instruc-
tion and inspiration that exhibits provide.”"'

But air conditioning was a new concept for the Mu-
seum, and the engineers could not get it to work prop-
erly. When members of the staff managed to contrive
keys to open the pivoting windows, the captain of the
guards announced under orders that when rounds were
made, “every damn window in the wing has got to be
closed.” An anonymous voice from the rear mentioned
that Dr. Kellogg liked his window open, and the order
was modified to, “Well, every other damn window in the
wing has got to be closed.” Despite perennial problems,
the climate control eventually got somewhat better, but
the north side of the building is always too cold and
the south side is always too warm.

New Wings and a New Elephant

Moving drawers of fossil invertebrates into the east wing, 1962.

During the early days in the east wing, the cleaning
force could not cope with the extra work. One day a
memorandum from “Buildings Maintenance” ap-
peared under every door, indicating how difficult 1t
was for the cleaning staff to keep ahead of the slovenly
scientists. It further noted that henceforth all scientists
were expected to clean their own offices and that brooms
would be placed on each floor. The scientists were i1n-
censed, and when the building superintendent found
out about it he was incensed, and sent someone around
to collect all copies of the spurious memo. Porter Kier
sull has the original copy he wrote.

Entomologists Move Out
There were many more scientists along the west side
of the building than along the east side. The largest
group was the entomologists in Hall 27 on the second
floor. In 1962, when space was needed for construction
of the west wing and renovation of the main building,
they volunteered to move to the Bergman Laundry
building in northwest Washington for what was sup-
posed to be a couple of years, but turned out to be
nearly a decade.

The contract for the new construction was signed in
August 1963, and the digging began in November. Once
again the work went quickly, and by the end of June

107
1964 most of the west wing’s granite facing was in place.
During the latter stages of construction, a workman
standing on some boards in the elevator shaft fell to
his death when the boards broke. It was the only fatality
associated with the building of the wings.

Renovation of the original building was going on at
the same time. On the second floor near the southwest
corner, Waldo Schmitt, by then officially retired, oc-
cupied a mezzanine office that he had loaded with quite
a lot of junk. When an opening was made on the side
of the building, the decking began to sag, and the con-
struction crew had to prop up the deck with timbers.
Carolyn Gast, an artist for Invertebrate Zoology who
had the office below Schmitt’s, made a sign for the area:
“The little city of Gustingdust. Population ten.” The
building manager saw this one day and tore it up. Gast
then made a series of signs in Greek, Russian, Hebrew,
Japanese, and a variety of other languages, expressing
the resident scientists’ opinion of the building manager.
One day the building manager came through with a
subcontractor who translated the Hebrew, but the signs
stayed up anyway.

As with the east wing, construction on the west side
was completed with no unanticipated problems, and by
mid-1964 part of the wing was occupied. The scheme
for the west wing—before the ground was broken, at
least—was that it should “house the Division of Fishes
on its ground floor, the Division of Marine Inverte-
brates on its first and much of its second floor, the
Division of Reptiles and Amphibians on the rest of the
second floor, the entire Department of Botany on the
third and fourth floors, and the Division of Insects on
the fifth and sixth floors, a portion of which will also
provide some storage space for the Division of Mam-
mals, which otherwise will occupy the adjacent top floor
of the west part of the adjacent building.”'*

Moving into West Wing

The Division of Fishes was first into the wing, with
Leonard Schultz overseeing the move. Ernest Lachner
employed a dozen high school students to help the
Smithsonian labor force, and had the other curators
and Fish and Wildlife biologists stationed at strategic
places. A quarter of a million jars, totaling several mil-
lion specimens, were moved in a month without a single
jar being broken.

The visitors’ book of the Division of Reptiles and
Amphibians, kept by Doris Cochran, records that there
was a visiting scientist working in the old quarters in
the main building on January 8, 1965. By January 26,
the next visitor was working in the new facility, on the
first floor of the west wing.

The moving of Botany to the fourth and fifth floors
(rather than the third and fourth) was more compli-
cated. One of the gothic windows in the Castle was
removed and a temporary elevator built outside to win-
dow level. The curators and laborers would move a

108

long herbarium case up a ramp to the window, and
then it would go down the elevator to a truck; the cases
were too large to be taken down the stairway. Plans had
been made to bring the National Fungi Collection to
the Museum at the time of the move, but the then-new
chairman of Botany, William L. Stern, decided against
this, for it would have used up all the badly needed
expansion room. One botanist recalls that he warned
the director of the Museum there would be insufficient
floor space, even without the fungi. He pointed out
that on the balcony in the herbarium within the Castle,
cases were stored three high, but in the new wings they
could be stored only two high. Though he was assured
that his fears were unfounded, the storage space that
was to last for thirty years was filled in ten.

Much of the storage in the west wing is of wet spec-
imens in bottles and jars. hese alcoholic specimens
were placed in large, closed-off interior rooms, consid-
erably reducing the danger of fire. The curators had
urged that there be positive air pressure in these rooms
to help keep out dust, but the system was not up to
this. Sull, the new space for all the jars was a great gain,
and allowed the collections to be properly organized
for the first time in fifty years. Had the ceilings been

just a few inches higher on most floors, an extra tier

of cases could have been fitted in, affording about 30
percent more storage space.

The invertebrate zoologists filled their storage space
with twelve-inch-wide shelving and needed more, so
they were given room for additional wet storage on the
third floor. The Division of Paleobotany, which also
needed more space, was assigned to new quarters in
the west wing. “For the first ume, the entire paleobo-
tanical collections of the Museum and those of the U.S.
Geological Survey housed in the museum [were] located
in a single area.”'’

Only the sixth floor remained to be filled. Part of
this was already designated for wet storage of mammals,
but there were some vacant offices—later used by En-
tomology—and the mammalogists moved into them.
After the renovation of the main building, they had
moved from the ground floor to the west north range,
and this was a logical extension of their territory.

Meanwhile, back in the main building, the ground-
floor fur vault, which had been displaced by the door-
way leading into the west wing, was moved down the
west range a few feet. The National Anthropological
Archives moved from the Castle to the ground floor
on the west side of the range adjacent to the wing. The
fisheries staff from the Department of Commerce moved
into offices on the east side of that range and the south
side of the west north range, all facing into the court-
yard. The library got the area facing Constitution Av-
enue that the Division of Mammals had vacated, and
improved the existing decking. The rearrangements
on the ground floor were to everyone’s satisfaction,
unlike the shufflings higher up in the new wing. =O

The Exhibits
Construction of the east wing
at fourth-floor level, 1961.
Ninth Street then went across
the Mall, not under it. In
the distance, to the east, is
the Army Medical Museum,
now the site of the Hirshhorn
Museum. A photograph of
the east wing with all floors
completed appears in the
Annual Report for 1962

Aerial view looking north- ree at the building with
east wing attached, showing the setting-back of the sixth

floor of the wing and the small- machinery building, for air

conditioning, on top of that. The main air intakes are in
the north corner of each court. On the north side of

New Wings and a New Elephant

—
—

Constitution Avenue are the National Archives, to the right,
and the Department of Justice, to the left. This photograph

and several illustrations from ground level were published

in the Annual Report for 1963.

109
Chapter 13

Big Science:
Deep Space, Deep Waters

| ee AGREES THAT THE postwar science boom
the first man-made satellite late in 1957. This satellite
was one of the Soviet contributions to the International
Geophysical Year, an eighteen-month, major investi-
gation of the physics of the earth. For the first time
since the end of World War II, the United States was
in second place, and federal funds were poured into
several branches of science.

The immediate result of Sputnik was a tremendous
surge of interest in outer space—specifically, in what
happened to an object when it came from space through
the atmosphere to the earth’s surface. Years before,
Edward Henderson had been chided by Wetmore for
spending his time only on meteorites. Suddenly it was
realized that a meteorite is a space probe that has landed
on earth, and everyone came to Henderson’s office to
find out about meteorites. Government agencies pressed
money on him, awakening some of the staff to the
possibility that the government might be interested in
what the Museum could contribute to various other
scientific programs.

With the increasing emphasis on outer space aimed
at landing a man on the moon, the Apollo program
had a direct impact on growth at the Museum. The
National Aeronautics and Space Administration rec-
ognized the merit in detailed study of the Museum’s
large meteorite collection, and they agreed to purchase
an electron probe and maintain it for three years, after
which the Museum would be responsible for costs. This
agreement led to the hiring of four additional people
in Mineral Sciences and nearly doubled the professional
staff of the department.

Kurt Fredrikkson seated by the electron probe on the fourth
floor of the east wing, 1967. The probe itself is near the
circular pillar that protrudes into the room; the rest of the
equipment serves to detect and record. Charles Fiori, in the
background, makes adjustments on the machine. The probe
has been replaced by a later model and moved to an
adjacent room.

in America began with the Russian launching of

111

The International Geophysical Year focused atten-
tion on Antarctica, and resulted in the establishment
of permanent American stations on that continent. At
the age of seventy-five, Schmitt went on an icebreaker
cruise to investigate sites, and with virtually no equip-
ment on hand, cajoled the ship’s company into helping
him make one of the largest collections of marine in-
vertebrates ever obtained from the region.

Expansion in Biology

When it became clear that the International Geophys-
ical Year was going to be a success, a group of biologists
conceived the idea of an International Biological Pro-
gram, to begin in the 1960s. Although this did not
generate as much excitement or money, it was another
step forward for “big science.” Under this program,
Setzer ran a major project for collecting small mam-
mals, with field men working throughout Africa and
the Middle East. At about the same time, the Pacific
Ocean Biological Survey Project, supported by the De-
partment of Defense, studied bird distribution and mi-
gration. Both programs added many specimens to the
collections, but they were supported by grants and con-
tracts—“soft money’—and with one or two exceptions,
did not lead to permanent staff increases. The Office
of Naval Research funded some studies of sharks and
shark attacks, again on a contract basis.

The atomic age, and particularly the development of
the hydrogen bomb a few years before sputnik, indi-
rectly stimulated expansion at the Museum, curiously
enough in biology. Museum scientists had collected ma-
rine organisms at Bikini Atoll in 1947 and 1948, before
and after atomic bombs were tested. With the hydrogen
bomb experiments at Eniwetok Atoll during the early
1950s, it was even more critical to sample the biota.
Travel money and funds for supplies and temporary
assistants came to the Institution. The Atomic Energy
Commission provided funds to build some decking on
the south side of the ground floor of the main building;
this was the first new space added inside the building
since the decking of the 1930s. Some of it was used as
offices for contract research associates.
Moving insect cases from the deck on the west range, second
floor (Hall 27), 1962, after this Hall of Invertebrates was
converted into offices for entomologists.

Changes in Zoology

Administrative changes were taking place in the De-
partment of Zoology. When Friedmann, who had suc-
ceeded Schmitt, retired in 1961, Fenner Chace served
as acting head for a year before stepping down to be-
come the first Senior Scientist in the Museum. He was
followed by Horton Hobbs, Jr., a specialist on fresh-
water crustaceans. Hobbs was the first scientist hired
from outside the Museum specifically to be a depart-
ment head. Promotion from inside, slow as it was, was
no longer an automatic event—a tremendous break
with tradition.

Another big change within Zoology concerned the
entomologists. The site they had been moved to in 1962
was the former rug-cleaning department of Bergman’s
Laundry, just off Georgia Avenue on Lamont Street in
northwest Washington, about a mile from the Museum.
The building was spartan but adequate, and because
of the kind of operation that had been run there, floors
were sturdy. There were no internal partitions, but the
entomologists were experienced in building office walls
from specimen cases. The move of specimens and peo-

D2

ple went fairly smoothly, and several people recall George
Steyskal of the Department of Agriculture driving his
car into the freight elevator, driving it off, and un-
loading directly onto his new desk. The entomologists
had 55,000 square feet of space. For the first time they
were able to get their collections in order and to have
offices fairly close to one another.

This new space, as they had hoped, provided the
opportunity for growth. On July 1, 1963, the Division
of Insects was split off as the Department of Ento-
mology, and J. F. Gates Clarke became the first head.
The total departmental staff at that time consisted of
fifteen people. Twenty years later the number was sixty-
five, including technicians and clerical support. The
Department of Agriculture entomologists managed to
add a position or two, but their number has been nearly
constant.

There were a few wisecracks at first about living in
a laundry, and it did not take long for this facility to
be christened “Lament Street” by its inhabitants. The
neighborhood was dangerous. No one associated with
the Museum ever ran into trouble, but there was con-
stant worry. On one occasion a murder victim was found
on the parking lot, and during the entomologists’ ten-
ure several shopowners in the neighborhood were shot.
After a gun store was robbed, the Federal Bureau of
Invesugation had a stakeout in the building before raid-
ing an apartment across the street. During the 1968
riots in Washington, there was considerable concern
for the staff and the collections, but again they came
to no harm.

In 1968 and 1969 the entomologists returned to the
Mall. Though they originally were slated for the fifth
and sixth floors of the west wing, the fifth floor had
gone to Botany, and because of the setting-back re-
quired by the Fine Arts Commission, the sixth floor
was smaller than anticipated. Hall 27 on the west side
of the second floor, which had been used for offices,
was fully decked over, this time with steel plates, but
that proved insufficient. Hall 30 on the south side of
the second floor was also converted to offices and decked
over. The Museum entomologists currently occupy about
36,000 square feet, far less than at Lamont Street. They
have a few offices in the west wing of the main building.

Nothing exists in a vacuum in the Museum, and one
action affects another. Because these two exhibit halls
were appropriated for offices, a partially completed hall
of fishes was scrapped, and a projected hall of fresh-
water and marine invertebrates was dropped.

Oceanography Program

The real driving force for growth in the Museum dur-
ing the early 1960s was oceanography. Using the In-
ternational Geophysical Year as a model, a number of
scientists set up an International Decade of the Oceans,
in a way a water-based International Biological Pro-
gram. After Stewart became director and Richard Cowan

The Exhibits
H. Adair Feldmann and
Beatrice Burch in the Smith-
sonian Oceanographic Sort-
ing Center. This photograph
was taken in the early 1970s
at the Navy Yard in south-
east Washington, where the
Sorting Center moved before
the Lamont Street building }
was vacated. Now the Sort- EXS%i
ing Center is in the Museum
Support Center at Silver
Hill, Maryland.

assistant director of the Museum in 1962, the special
position of Assistant Director for Oceanography was
created. Eugene Wallen transferred from the Atomic
Energy Commission to the Museum to fill this post.
While at the Commission he had been a strong sup-
porter of the Museum, and had provided several large
grants.

Wallen was an excellent organizer and wasted no time
when presented with the opportunity to develop the
Museum’s oceanography program. “The establishment
and functioning of the Smithsonian Oceanographic
Sorting Center is perhaps the most important single
accomplishment of the first year of the oceanography
program,” read the Annual Report published in 1964.
“The Sorting Center is designed to provide assistance
of several kinds to taxonomic specialists both in Federal
and non-Federal establishments. A principal function

is to sort to practical taxonomic level the multitude of

plants and animals collected on oceanic cruises.”' The
Sorting Center, opened in 1962, was on the second floor
of the Lamont Street laundry building. Under the en-
ergetic direction of H. Adair Feldmann, it soon became
an effective and widely known unit. Before the ento-
mologists left Lamont Street in 1965, the Sorting Center
moved to a building in the old Navy Yard in southeast
Washington. During the summer of 1985, another move
was made to the Museum Support Center.

With so many organisms coming into the collections,
the Museum could not hope to study them all. Never-
theless, there was good reason to increase the staff and

Big Science: Deep Space, Deep Waters

hire specialists in groups that had not been studied by
earlier curators. As one measure of growth, in fiscal
year 1964 Zoology listed twenty-four names, even though
a separate Department of Entomology had been estab-
lished that year. The following year the old Department
of Zoology was split into two, and the last of the seven
departments of the present Museum emerged. In fiscal
year 1965, when this division occurred, there were sev-
enteen people in Vertebrate Zoology and sixteen in
Invertebrate Zoology. Paleobiology also added special-
ists on fossils and marine sedimentology during these
years.

“Perhaps the most obvious of the changes in the first
three years of the Smithsonian’s research effort in
oceanography,” Smithsonian Year for 1965 explained,
“has been a large increase in staff involvement in bi-
ological and geological oceanography activities. Not only
has the number of scientists involved in the oceanog-
raphy program tripled in these three years, but the
number of organizational units included in the pro-
gram also has tripled. Whereas before, the Institution
had extremely restricted capability to treat the nearly
100 major groups of marine organisms, selective re-
cruiting has resulted in the addition of capabilities to
examine and carry out research on groups which could
not be included in earlier oceanographic efforts.”

A positive event of 1966 was the decision by Congress
that “Public Law 480 funds’—foreign currency owed
the United States that must be spent in the country
repaying the debt—could be used for biological work.

113
Both Museum scientists and those from academic in-
stitutions received grants of PL 480 money, which con-
tinue to be helpful to the pursuit of science at the Mu-

seum.
By June 1966 the Smithsonian had formed a separate
Office of Oceanography and Limnology (the study of
lakes, ponds, and streams). Thus the Sorting Center
was no longer part of the Museum. A Mediterranean
Marine Sorting Center was established, supported by
foreign-currency funds made available under Public

Law 480. Looking back, the impression one gains 1s of

rapid expansion into a variety of fields. The Interna-
tional Biological Program embraced the total environ-
ment, not just the oceans. The Smithsonian established
the Office of Ecology in July 1967, and Helmut Buech-
ner, as assistant director for ecology at the Museum,
developed a modest staff. A Chesapeake Bay Center
for Field Biology was started, and for its first year was
under the administration of the Museum.

Fort Pierce Facility

In 1968 Wallen became acting head of the Office of

Ecology, and in October of 1969 it merged with Ocean-
ography and Limnology to form the Office of Envi-
ronmental Sciences. Although Wallen continued for a
time as an assistant director, increasingly he had more
to do with oceanography overall and less to do directly
with the Museum. In the early 1970s he went to Fort
Pierce, Florida, to organize another Smithsonian bu-
reau, and later left the Institution. In 1981, after several
changes in administration, the Fort Pierce facility be-
came part of the National Museum of Natural History.
And when the Office of Environmental Sciences was

114

View looking north in Hall
27, probably in the late
1950s. The giant clam
(Tridacna) is to the extreme
right. Beyond it, on the right
side, the alcoves have been
closed off to make offices for
the U.S. Department of
Agriculture entomologists.
Some cases of invertebrates
remain on the left, but
behind them are more offices,
with cases sticking up. Out
of sight at the corner of the
hall was the “Coral Room.”

closed in 1975, the Sorting Center again became part
of the Museum—essentially, another department.
There was one other facet of big science that left a
physical change in the Museum. Within the Depart-
ment of Botany, the idea of a comprehensive “Flora of
North America” in a series of publications was devel-
oped. Several feasibility studies were done, and mo-
mentum toward this major compilation began to build.
This project helped lay the groundwork for automatic
data processing, now a standard practice in the Mu-
seum. There were a few offices opening up in the north
wing adjacent to the elevators. The exhibits people had
left the area in terrible shape, but cleaned up and decked
over, it would have made an ideal headquarters for the
“Flora.” The construction was completed, but in 1973,

just before the move, the project expired. The “Hand-

book of North American Indians,” big science in itself,
moved into the area. When this group moved to the
southwest corner of the ground floor, the public ed-
ucation staff inherited the space.

The volumes of Smithsonian Year for 1970 and 1971
combined are not as thick as the volume for 1969. “As
in all research/education centers over the country, the
year was one of retrenchment, deferred needs, and
constantly revised priorities,” the 1971 yearbook re-
ported. “Rather than lose any of its excellent staff, this
Museum chose to keep the people even though that
decision meant drastically reduced funding for items
other than salaries.”* This was a hard choice. The era
of big science had dramatically increased the size of the
staff, but when the cuts came, people were more im-
portant than travel or even cases for the specimens. 0

The Exhibits
J. FG. Clarke, Division of
Insects, and two laborers

C unpacking collections at
Lamont Street.

any gi LS all ae asst |i 3

vn Maitlh ;

Putting in the floor supports for cases of insects at Lamont Street, 1962.

Big Science: Deep Space, Deep Waters

115
=. “

Chapter 14

“Modern Times”

ae OPENING OF THE Museum of History and Tech-
nology in 1964 marked a major change in the
course of the Smithsonian Institution. It coincided with
the start of the twenty-year tenure of S. Dillon Ripley
as Secretary of the Smithsonian. During these two dec-
ades the Institution increased dramatically in both scope
and diversity. For much of its history, one could well
have described the Smithsonian as natural history with
a few appendages; after 1964 the Museum of Natural
History became simply one among a series of museums.
In this sense alone the Museum lost significance, for
staff and budget increased markedly during this era.

Leonard Carmichael, in reviewing the 1953-63 dec-
ade of his secretaryship, noted the development of the
Museum of History and Technology, the increase in
the collections from 34 million to 57 million specimens,
the increase in field investigations, the formation of the
Smithsonian Oceanographic Sorting Center, the con-
struction of the east wing of the Natural History Build-
ing, and the appropriation for the west wing.' The John
F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts became a
separate bureau, and the number of visitors to the
buildings on the Mall nearly tripled.

Immediately after Secretary Ripley assumed office,
the increase of staff and development of new offices
in connection with oceanography and ecology accel-
erated. This resulted in new attitudes toward science
at the Museum, and there were changes in attitude
toward public affairs as well. In 1965 the Smithsonian’s
Annual Report was supplanted by a more popularized
yearbook, Smithsonian Year. Because of the progressive
growth of the Institution, with the addition of bureaus
and functions, detailed information on individual events
has necessarily been curtailed, although the yearbooks
collectively give a sense of great happenings throughout

Removing a tree from It All Depends (Hall 10) for
transplantation to the South American Hall (Hall 23),
February 1975. The mirrors behind give an illusion of
great distance in the forest. They reflect photographer Roy
E. (“Chip”) Clark to the upper left, and to the right, at the
base of the tree, Reginald J]. (“Bud”) Sayre.

117

the Institution. The yearbook itself has changed from
year to year, even to alterations in cover illustrations
of the Castle between 1972 and 1973 as the cupola, lost
in the fire of 1865, was restored to the north tower.

Growth of the Museum Shops

The publication of the magazine Smithsonian repre-
sented a large step in the Institution’s becoming truly
national in scope, rather than Washington-based; of its
appealing to the public at large, rather than being bound
to buildings in Washington. The development of the
Museum Shops provides another example. Secretaries
Abbot and Wetmore had been concerned that sales by
the Institution might deprive local merchants, and as
a consequence there was no shop in the Museum. Un-
der Secretary Carmichael, steps were taken to satisfy
the desire of tourists to purchase Museum-related items,
and under Secretary Ripley the program expanded
rapidly.

“The first year [fiscal year 1968] of the reorganized
Smithsonian Museum Shop program saw the construc-
tion of a shop in the Museum of Natural History at the
Constitution Avenue entrance and a book shop at the
Mall entrance.”* From the start this shop was a hit with
tourists, Causing traffic jams in the lobby. It occupied
a small office next to the marble stairway, but soon
expanded, and the north end of Hall 10 on the first
floor, in the area now occupied by Splendors of Nature,
was partitioned off for storage. The Museum Shop,
which moved to the West Court building in 1976, has
become a major asset. It is never without customers;
during the spring and summer it suffers from over-
crowding. An accessory to each show in the Evans Gal-
lery is a small separate sales desk in the foyer, selling
books and objects related to the temporary shows. After
the remodeled Hall 3 reopened in 1981 and a big thing
was made of the return of the dinosaurs, a movable
cart called “The Dinostore”
tunda for a time.

was stationed in the ro-

Financial Problems

Just as Museum Shop sales fluctuate seasonally, the

fortunes of the Museum have fluctuated, though on a
slightly longer cycle. Secretary Ripley recognized early
that the Museum had financial problems. Access to
National Science Foundation Funds had been cut off
by Congress in the early 1960s, but while Ripley was
able to persuade Congress to increase the appropria-
tions for research to the Institution to compensate for
the loss, these funds were removed by Congress in the
early 1970s.

Fiscal year 1970 was a downer, financially. “When I
first came to the Smithsonian,” Ripley stated in July,
“T was concerned with our inability to compete with
other institutions for highly qualified scientists because
of salary levels. Now we have succeeded in attracting
a number of highly competent, indeed distinguished
scientists to our professional staff in the National Mu-
seum of Natural History.”’ Yet, he added in the 1970
Smithsonian Year, “If ivory towers existed here earlier,
they have long since crumbled, spilling their occupants
into the midst of concerns that involve us all. ... De-
creasing resources in the past few years for carrying
forward research-curation-education programs in the
Museum became a major preoccupation in the latter
half of the year. Reductions in ‘buying power’ caused
by near-level funding, inflation, and general pay raises,
have been met in recent years by progressive reorgan-
ization.”' According to one source, 98 percent of the
budget in this fiscal year was allocated to salaries. One
could pick almost any year during the 1920s or 1930s
and read similar stories of financial distress.

Nevertheless, in Ripley’s view, much had been ac-
complished in change of attitude in the five years since
he took over:

Scientists and scholars can only be appropriately
treated as professionals; they must be accorded
latitude in order to act responsibly as masters of
their domains of subject matter knowledge. One of
my first aims as Secretary was to provide that
department chairman serve in rotation “from the
ranks” so to speak, and for limited terms, in order
to minimize the hazard of an internal seniority
system that might block initiative and convert
scientists into permanent administrators. Research
support is made available to staff members in the
form of grants and from appropriated funds, so
that they will act responsibly as principal
investigators treating scarce resources as wisely as
they would funds of their own. I put an end to
pre-publication review of professional publications
by the Secretary, preferring to read them as
reprints from colleagues rather than submissions
for administrative clearance. We cancelled a
burdensome annual report required of each staff
member about his research because it served
unnecessary and merely administrative purposes.
Burdensome formal reporting can be no substitute
for consultation and constant awareness by
supervisors. Evaluation of professional

118

accomplishment is now conducted by committees
of peers formed in major research units, known as
“Professional Accomplishment Evaluation
Committees.” Staff members have been
encouraged to teach in universities on official time
(without added compensation) and to request
changes of their duty station at intervals so as to be
able to spend a year in study and research without
distractions of daily office routine, an equivalent to
a university sabbatical. Travel to professional
meetings has been encouraged.’

All the items mentioned were important, but the two
with the longest-lasting effects have been rotation of
department chairmen and peer reviews. The change
to chairmanship from lifetime head permitted more
flexibility, though it also increased the paperwork, al-
ready swollen by the shift of administrative control from
the divisional toward the departmental level. The peer
review is the most important single factor in promoting
research activities, for everyone on the staff knows that
published papers are what one’s peers evaluate.

Research Vs. Service

Under Wetmore and his predecessors, research cer-
tainly was considered important and was encouraged.
However, the prevailing view appeared to be that the
functions of the Museum were those of a service or-
ganization—to increase the collections and care for them,
and to answer all public inquiries. John Ewers, an
authority on American Indians, notes that Herbert
Krieger would not allow him to forward any inquiries
to others, so that he was forced to answer questions on
subjects as far afield as African ethnology. Research
could be done only in the time left after inquiries were
answered. This view of the function of the Museum
curatorial staff began to change in the 1950s. Today,
the collections are not always cared for directly by the
curators; the degree of curatorial involvement varies
among the departments. Inquiries are often answered
by assistants. The currently prevailing view is that the
scientific staff should be involved primarily in research.

Congressional Oversight

Another milestone or millstone the Institution faced in
1970 was the general oversight hearings held by Con-
gress. Previously the Institution had appeared only in
connection with congressional appropriations hearings.
No one knew what to expect. By dint of determined
investigation, the General Accounting Office showed
that some money appropriated for construction in the
Museum, totalling just under $44,000, had been used
instead for construction in the Arts and Industries
Building. This had been done so that the registrar could
be moved and to provide an extra office for entomol-
ogists. The misapplication was viewed sympathetically
by Congressman John Brademas, who said, “When I
think of what goes on in the Department of Defense,

The Exhibits
Beth Miles installing a sun-
dial shell (Architectonica)
in Splendors of Nature
(Hall 10A), with Carl
Alexander looking on, 1978.

my blood does not boil very much about the Smith-
sonian’s shortcomings.”°

The Museum got through the hearings satisfactorily,
and possibly as a result of the experience tried a dif-
ferent budgetary approach. New research projects,
mainly in environmental science, were specified in the
proposed budget, and some of them were accepted by
Congress. The early 1970s thus brought additions to
the scientific staff, though not on the large scale of the
mid-1960s. About 105 professional scientists are now
on the staff; the numbers fluctuate in reaction to var-
ious hiring freezes, but the last decade has not seen any
dramatic change.

Growth by transfer, quite another matter, has oc-
curred, with many services coming under the jurisdic-
tion of the director in 1973. If one looks simply at
budget figures, the Museum would seem to have ex-
panded sixfold over the last twenty years. But if one
allows for salary increases, effects of inflation, and
transfer of people and services, little change in the
available funds can be discerned.

“Modern Times”

Exhibit Halls Undergo Change

In 1973, after the “rearticulation” of various services,
the Museum once again had its own exhibits group.
Shortly thereafter a committee was formed to develop
a long-range plan for the halls. Its chairman, Leo J.
Hickey, a paleobotanist, is now director of the Peabody
Museum at Yale, and the vice-chairman, Donald Duck-
worth, an entomologist, is now director of the Bishop
Museum in Hawaii.

An article in The Torch, the Smithsonian’s staff news-
paper, outlined what the committee planned to change:
“In the past, NMNH seldom attempted to clearly iden-
tufy the underlying concepts of its exhibit halls. Objects
were arranged in cases by the curators because they
were the best, or the prettiest, or because they came
from the same South Seas island. Occasionally a case
would be organized around an interesting idea but fre-
quently it would not be closely related to the cases around
it. The effect is that our halls don’t create a broad
concept of natural history in a way the public can un-
derstand.’

19
Hall 20

Hall 6

Hall 23

Hall 29 (south)
Hall 1OA

Hall 26

Hall 10

Hall 2 (center)
Hall 2 (east)
Hall 26 (west)
Hall 2

Hall

Hall

The South American Hall (Hall 28), photographed from
the north steps looking south toward the rotunda, in 1978.
The ceiling is lower and the lighting better than in earlier

120

TABLE 2: Major Exhibits, 1971-1985, Still on Display

Our Restless Planet

Ice Age Mammals and The Emergence of Man
South America: Continent and Culture

Insect Zoo

Splendors of Nature

Western Civilization: Origins and Traditions

Dynamics of Evolution

The Conquest of Land

The Flowering Plant Revolution

The Living Coral Reef

Dinosaur Hall

Fossil Mammals

Origin of Life and the Early Atmosphere

| displays in this hall. This is an example of an inter-
disciplinary exhibit, for geology, plants, and animals are
used to amplify the ethnology.

November 1, 1971
September 13, 1974
Fall, 1975

August 23, 1976
October, 1977
June, 1978

May 18, 1979
April 17, 1980
April 17, 1980
October 15, 1980
December 4, 1981
Fiscal year 1985
Fiscal year 1985

The Exhibits

Communicating ideas to the general public is diffi-
cult, especially when most of the information is to be
conveyed through objects. Even a professional scientist
should not criticize a hall until he has tried designing
one of his own, for no matter how an exhibit is ar-
ranged, some viewers will respond to it and some will
not. Because the Museum’s new halls were to cut across
several departmental lines, scientifically trained ex-
hibits specialists were hired to serve as liaison between
curators and designers. One aptly described her posi-
tion as occupying the space between a rock and a hard
place.

This third generation of exhibit halls is coming along
more slowly than the second generation of the 1950s
and 1960s, but it is coming along. In Hall 6—the first
to open, in September 1974—“the visitor can start out
at the beginning of the Ice Age when the Earth was
dominated by big mammals and end up in a cultural
milieu dominated by man.”* The hall, which includes
two more Matternes murals, also featured two giant
ground sloths nicely displayed on a central platform,
behind piano wire strung from floor to ceiling. The
specimens could be seen without obstruction, but vis-
itors kept plucking the wires, and eventually the entire
hall had to be closed and redesigned. One of the skel-
etons the vertebrate paleontology laboratory was par-
ticularly proud of was a woolly mammoth. The aim of
the preparators is to make supports as unobtrusive as
possible, and it took Leroy Glenn a full year to drill the
limb bones and place supporting iron inside so that the
specimen appeared freestanding. When the hall was
temporarily closed, the mammoth was among the spec-
imens that had to be shifted. Like all large elephants,
it presented problems, clearing the ceiling by less than
an inch. Decades ago this area was the hall of physical
geology, and if there was ever a case of metamorphosis
in the Museum, Hall 6 is it.

Physical geology still occupied Hall 20 on the second
floor, but while a few of Merrill’s stone cubes and slabs
remained, this too was otherwise a total renovation. The
exhibit was a long time in preparation, and a series of
different designers were involved. Our understanding
of geology changed dramatically during the 1960s, when
plate tectonics became almost a household term; the
hall managed to bring in these newer concepts. At its
east end are the meteorites, and between them and the
main part of the hall are moon rocks. ‘These specimens
may once have ranked third in interest after the Hope
Diamond and the Insect Zoo, though they no longer
attract the crowds they did at first.

Some Exhibit Problems

There were some problems with the bicentennial ex-
hibit that opened November 19, 1975. Our Changing
Land presented the concept of change through time of
the Washington-area environment. The central corri-

“Modern Times”

dor was a forest, but all the trees had uniformly large
trunks more than four feet in diameter—the designer’s
effort to transform the brick supporting pillars of the
building. The forest never looked real, and many peo-
ple headed straight for the escalator. The exhibit stayed
until the foyer was renovated to create the Evans Gal-
lery.

On the first floor, in Hall 10 above the foyer, the
ecological exhibit /¢ All Depends had opened a few years
earlier. It was in part tropical rain forest: “Modeled of
papier-maché and plastic, after sketches and photo-
graphs taken in Panama and South American jungles,
the exhibit’s trees, foliage, and vines were enclosed in
a mirrored ceiling-high silo. Walking into this dimly lit
enclosure, visitors had the illusion that they were in the
center of a vast tropical forest—with trees rising 80-
100 feet above their heads.”” It was a great illusion. At
the last minute there was concern that the silo would
act as a chimney in the event of fire, and a special
halogen gas system was installed in the attic above the
hall.

“Earth Day” came to America in 1970, and the other
part of Hall 10 was a response of sorts to public concern
for the environment. Its exhibits dealt with various as-
pects of ecology apart from rain forests, with emphasis
on man’s impact on nature. The many pieces of au-
diovisual equipment in this hall kept giving trouble,
which cooled enthusiasm for using so much such equip-
ment in exhibits thereafter. When the hall finally closed,
few were sorry to see it go. Later there was talk of
modifying the hall to a display showing the interrela-
tions of plants and insects. A giant model grasshopper
was fabricted but never put on public display. The trees
went to Hall 23. Some temporary shows were staged
in Hall 10, including one by the Russian government,
Siberia: Land of Promise. Sull later it was used as a supply
room and for temporary storage while a new exhibit
was being planned.

Hall 23, the first new hall of the 1950s renaissance,
had been done by Evans and Meggers. The first hall
to be done for a third time—by Evans and Meggers
again, plus a committee—it reopened quietly in the fall
of 1975. While it was closed for construction, a freeze-
dried parrot was placed in one of the trees. One day
someone noticed that nothing remained except the
skeleton, moths and beetles having eaten it. The stuffed
cormorants at the north end of the hall have been more
successful in resisting infestation. Pampas grass was
brought in from Argentina, though its arrival was de-
layed for a long time by the American Embassy’s in-
ability to understand why it should accept a shipment
of hay for transportation to Washington.'? A booklet
to accompany the hall was planned, but funds were not
sufficient for it. Later, booklets were printed to sup-
plement the Insect Zoo and the Ice Age Hall, among
others, and are sold at the Museum Shop.

|r|
Part of Ice Age Hall (Hall 6) in March 1975, showing
part of one of the murals by Jay Matternes on the right.
The American Mammoth (Mammuthus) just clears the

The Insect Zoo

The Insect Zoo is a real success story. It began in the
early 1970s as an idea of Ronald Gore, then a special
assistant to the director. For several years it was in
operation during the summers only, in the northeast
corner of the second floor at the junction of Halls 21
and 22. The life in the zoo provided a counterpoint
and a welcome relief after the cases of archeology in
the adjacent halls. The entire operation was run by
volunteers supervised by the Museum staff. A number
of the entomologists contributed insects, and one day
a serious Memorandum was issued from the director’s
office asking for volunteers to feed the mosquitoes.
During the summer of 1975, after the zoo closed, a
vertebrate paleontology preparator worked on display
in this area, and the tourists used to gather to watch
him remove the matrix from a bone.

The Exhibits Committee decided to run the Insect
Zoo year-round, and it reopened in August 1976, in
time for the meeting of the International Entomological
Congress in Washington. From the first day it attracted
crowds. Although there are a number of behind-the-

122

pare

ceiling. A slightly different view of the skeleton is in
Smithsonian Year 1975.

scenes problems in keeping these short-lived animals
in cages, especially rearing more insects as replacement
stock, the zoo is likely to remain in the Museum as a
permanent display of living organisms. To reach it, one
walks through the Hall of Osteology. If one waits in
the right place in that hall, invariably an adult will be
heard to say, “I didn’t know snakes had bones.”

Other Exhibitions

Splendors of Nature'' in Hall 10A, where the National
Collection of Fine Arts once spilled out of its bounds,
has been another big success. “Museum Director Porter
Kier’s idea was not to provide any scientific message as
the Museum ordinarily does in its exhibits, but rather
each object was to be on view in the hall for just one
reason—because it is beautiful,” said the 1978 Smith-
sonian Year.'* Hall 10A, incidentally, represents the only
addition ever made to Rathbun’s original numbering
scheme. This area at the north end of the north wing
is noteworthy for one other feature. Except for the
north stairway, it is the only public place in the Museum
where visitors can look out of windows.

The Exhibits
a

Construction in Hall 2 in the 1970s. Diplodocus is in picture to the left is a ramp to the second floor. An ;

the foreground, and Diana of the Tides is temporarily earlier view of Diplodocus in this hall is given in the
‘ ioe 2 i g : : x ; c z

exposed in the distance above the balcony. Just off the Annual Report for 1963.

“Modern Times”

A

Long after /¢ All Depends, in Hall 10, was dismantled,
a temporary show of Treasures of Mexico was installed.
Even though this was on exhibit for only two months,
it resulted in a permanent change in the building. A
balcony leading off the second-floor rotunda was built
out into the open space, and is now considered part of
Hall 10.

Next in Hall 10 came Dynamics of Evolution, whose
unveiling in 1979 ushered in a new set of problems.
Some highly sophisticated concepts were being pre-
sented to the public, but in addition, it was the first
time the word “evolution” had ever been used in a
Museum display. This does not mean that the Insti-
tution had shied away from the subject. In the early
1920s, when anti-evolution laws were being passed by
some states, Secretary Walcott had Abbot prepare a
statement that was duplicated and passed around, though
it is not certain whether these pages circulated outside
the Museum. But while the old exhibits on the second
floor were designed to convey ideas of individual var-
iation and of change, the word evolution itself had not
been used.

As might be anticipated, not everyone was pleased
with the creation of this hall, and the Smithsonian In-
stitution was sued. The United States District Court

124

as

The Insect Zoo on a quiet day in 1977. Formerly the Whale Hall, this is the only part of Hall 30 currently open.

ruled that the exhibit came under the “increase and
diffuse” mandate of the Institution, and that the evo-
lution hall was not a religious display. The case was
appealed, and the right of the Smithsonian was upheld.
Justice Louis F. Oberdorfer of the United States Court
of Appeals made an interesting observation: “Finally,
appellants are under no compulsion to go to the Mu-
seum. If they choose to do so, they are free to avoid
the exhibits which they find offensive and may focus
on the other exhibits of which there are many.”'*> No
one in the Museum argued with this decision.

In the late 1970s all the fossil halls in the east wing
of the main building were closed for renovation. The
concept of “Fossils: The History of Life” took shape,
and the two segments dealing with transition from sea
to land and with the appearance of the flowering plants
opened in Hall 4 in April 1980. A year later the di-
nosaurs made it back into the limelight in Hall 2. In
positioning of specimens and architectural style, the
present dinosaur hall bears no resemblance to either
the original one or the revamped model of the 1970s.
A ramp was built from the balcony on the east end of
the hall to another balcony extending off the second-
floor rotunda. The stairs from the east balcony leading
to the moon rocks disappeared; a platform for speci-

The Exhibits
mens was hung on the south wall, and a giant pterosaur
was suspended from the ceiling. At the grand opening,
“dinosaur music” composed on a Moog synthesizer
rumbled through the hall.

This dinosaur exhibit provides an excellent example
of display recycling. The papier-maché Stegosaurus now
on the south side of the hall had been on view in both
preceding dinosaur exhibits. The life-size beast was
originally made for the 1904 St. Louis Exposition and
paid for with funds appropriated for displays there.
Somehow a wild rumor got started in the 1960s that
the papier-maché was made from worn money with-
drawn from circulation. The staff knew better, but to

resolve the point, several people from the Bureau of

Printing and Engraving did an “autopsy” and deter-
mined that ordinary paper was involved.

In 1983 fossils of ancient soft-bodied animals col-
lected by Secretary Walcott in western Canada were
installed in the entryway to Hall 2. An exhibit of ex-
tremely ancient fossils, opened late in 1984, finished
off Hall 2, and fossil mammals in Hall 3 will complete
the jigsaw puzzle. Once all the pieces fit together to
make a coherent story, one will be able to start at the
dawn of life just off the rotunda and end up with the
cave men at the north end of Hall 6.

Used for both display and research, the coral reef
installed in the Hall of the Sea in 1980 is an important
addition to the Museum."* Occupying the center of the
hall is an exhibit consisting of a short movie and a
display of specimens from the Pacific Ocean deep-sea
vents. This too has received a great deal of attention,
though there is widespread feeling that the full-scale
model of a deep-water submersible, hung in 1983 as a
complement to the hall’s exhibits, is more of a detrac-
tion.

Four exhibit halls on the second floor are currently
closed. Two are being used for offices by entomologists,
and two for organizing collections to be moved to the
new Museum Support Center. Despite this temporary
loss of space, public display gained new importance in
1984 with the establishment of the position of Assistant
Director for Exhibits.

Educational Programs

Aside from the exhibits themselves, efforts in public
education broadened during the Ripley era, although
several of them had been in place for years. The Mu-
seum always identified specimens and answered in-
quiries from the public. Under Secretaries Henry, Baird,
and Langley, the Institution distributed “duplicate
specimens” to schools and universities, as well as edu-
cational materials of a more general type. During the
192Qs a set of rocks and minerals illustrating the con-
cept of weathering and soil formation was sent out. As
late as the 1940s the Museum was distributing sets of
common minerals to schools, and some schools, uni-
versities, and nature centers are still receiving speci-

“Modern Times”

mens. The Museum has hung occasional displays of
schoolchildren’s work in the foyer. After World War I
the Smithsonian started a weekly radio program, with
Austin Clark, the echinoderm specialist, taking the lead
in organizing the broadcasts. The current “Radio
Smithsonian” is a later, independent development.

In 1955 the Junior League of Washington organized
a docent program for the Museum and began to give
tours for school groups. They were successful—indeed,
the program grew to such an extent that the league
could no longer handle it. In the late 1960s the Junior
League donated money to the Smithsonian for a paid
coordinator, on the understanding that in a few years
the scheduling of tours and the training of docents
would be handled by the Institution.

In the mid-1960s the Museum housed most of the
education efforts of the whole Smithsonian. Rooms on
both sides of the foyer served as educational offices,
docent lounges, and class. oms. The program was geared
to all ages, from high school students to preschoolers.
In the fall of 1973, the Smithsonian Office of Education
was reorganized and decentralized. As had happened
with exhibits and building maintenance, the Museum
thereafter ran its own education program.

Tours of the halls led by docents have continued and
expanded. The education staff offers Museum tours
for the deaf, using docents who know sign language.
They have also developed tours for the visually hand-
icapped, and occasionally provide docents for tour groups
speaking foreign languages. An outreach program for
bringing natural history to elderly citizens resulted in
a popular handbook.

During the 1970s the Museum added two new ed-
ucational attractions. The Discovery Room in the north-
west corner of the first floor opened March 5, 1974.
There “elephant tusks, coral, petrified wood, woolly
mammoth teeth, and hundreds of natural history spec-
imens, ordinarily out of reach behind glass or railings
in the museums, could be grasped, turned over in the
hand at one’s leisure, and studied with a magnifying
glass.”'” The Discovery Room, which incorporates some
features of the Children’s Museum in Boston, has been
popular with the public, particularly with families. The
docents observed during the first year that many guards
came in to examine specimens and learn a bit more
about what they had been protecting. More than 100
museums have now copied the Discovery Room.

In 1976 the Naturalist Center was opened in the West
Court building. The aim of the Center is to provide a
few references, appropriate synoptical collections, and
some assistance.'® Amateurs interested in local natural
history come here to see if they can identify for them-
selves the bug, leaf, or stone they have collected. Many
of the simpler requests for identification are resolved
on the spot; more difficult identifications or potentially
novel specimens are referred to the staff of the appro-
priate department. The number of people using the

25
Rest
Rooms Splendors
t of Nature
Indian

2 Asian
Cultures

African

Cultures wy Cultures
3

Malt

aS se a Saar

Center has grown steadily, and when schools are in
session it is in almost constant use. At least three local
scientific societies hold monthly meetings in the Center.

Over the past twenty years, the side of the Museum
dedicated to the public has more than held its own.
Likewise, there has been considerable improvement from
the scientist’s point of view. The collections are in far
better condition than at any other time in the history
of the Museum. The amount of support help is at an
all-time high. Funding for research has always been a
problem, but in addition to federal and Smithsonian
funds, the Museum receives modest amounts from pri-
vate endowments for certain types of research or
collection-building

Modifications to the Building

The Museum building has been the site of almost con-
tinuous modification. The wings are increasingly being
split up into tiny cubicles, some by temporary walls and
some with cinderblock. The office ceilings in the wings
and the main building were torn up to add smoke de-
tectors. Then they were torn up again to add a sprinkler
system. The main building is being died up with false
ceilings to cover various wires, air ducts, and miscel-
laneous relics of improvement. Asbestos in the attics

Current status of displays on the first floor and second floor

Western

Cvilzaticn iss

Earth,
Moon

a
Meteorites

Minerals

Elevators
2 information ~

Second
Floor co

. Modified from a Museum brochure for visitors.

has to be removed, and unfortunately some of the rel-
atively new air-conditioning piping was coated with as-
bestos. For the last five years, a significant hazard has
been the danger of walking into stepladders scattered
throughout the halls.

One place of great activity during the spring of 1984
was the northeast corner of the main building on the
third floor. Secretary Ripley had established research
offices there upon his arrival in Washington; after his
retirement on September 17, 1984, this became his
headquarters.'’ The area was rebuilt and repainted in
an incredibly short time.

Down the hall from the former Secretary, on the east
north range, Secretary Adams has an area reserved for
his archeological research.'* Some skeletons had to be
displaced to reconstruct office walls where they once
had stood two decades before.

There is one loose end: the enigmatic “Museum of
Man.” The name appears on a plaque at each entrance
to the building, yet this is the only sign of it. During
the days of the Smithsonian Office of Anthropology,
a museum concentrating on man as distinct from nat-
ural history was discussed. It had both proponents and
opponents, but the issue, so far, remains to be
resolved. Oo

The Exhibits
Part Three

ye
PERI IIDI SIDR ep PHRIIOIOT

Chapter 15

Museum
Admiunistration

Ge BROWN GOODE WROTE: “Good administra-
tion is not to be had for nothing. As to the qual-
ifications of a museum administrator, whether it be a
museum of science or a museum of art, it is perhaps
superfluous to say that he should be the very best at-

tainable; a man of ability, enthusiasm, and withal of

experience.”'

The office of the director is on the third floor at the
southwest corner of the building, with windows facing
the Mall and the Smithsonian Castle to the south, and
Twelfth Street and the Museum of American History
to the west. The room is spacious and airy, and ac-
cording to many old-time Washington hands, it is one
of the largest offices in town. For many years this was
a fairly austere place, but over the last two decades it
has been decorated to suit the tastes of the various
occupants. When Porter Kier was director, he added a
stuffed rhinoceros to the furniture.

A major amenity of the director’s office was the large
adjacent bathroom. During the 1960s, its claw-footed
bathtub was replaced by the typical coffee kitchenette
of the modern office building. The bathtub was a stark
reminder of just how beastly hot Washington was in
summer before the days of air conditioning. No high
official could work all day and go to an official function
at night without a bath, and the streetcars could not
get one home and back in time.

Richard Rathbun

Richard Rathbun was the first to occupy this office. ‘To
recapitulate his career, he began as a geologist, but in
1878 became an assistant on Spencer F. Baird’s Fish

Commission. Later he became, as well, a curator of

marine invertebrates, and did both jobs until 1914. A
century ago there were few government scientists, and
a lot of doubling-up was done to fill all the adminis-
trative positions. Rathbun transferred to the Museum
full-time when Goode temporarily took over the Fish
Commiission after Baird’s death; later he switched places
with Goode again. In 1896, after Goode’s death, Rath-

T. Dale Stewart with a human skull (Homo), 1982.

129

bun became an assistant secretary, and was directly in
charge of the National Museum from 1900 until his
death in 1918. “Out of respect to his memory the flags
on the buildings of the Institution were carried at half-
mast. ... Business was suspended and the public ex-
hibition halls were closed on the day of funeral.”* Con-
sidering his close involvement with the construction of
the new National Museum, it is fitting that Rathbun’s
last published paper was a summary of the buildings
of the Institution.

William de C. Ravenel

There is little personal information to be gleaned about
William de C. Ravenel, who took over in 1918 as Ad-
ministrative assistant to the Secretary (rather than As-
sistant Secretary) in charge of the United States Na-
tional Museum. Paul Garber, historian emeritus of the
National Air and Space Museum, describes him only
as a pleasant man and a fine boss. While Ravenel did
champion natural history’s right to its own building,
his major contribution to the Institution was the
strengthening of the staff and exhibits in the old Na-
tional Museum building. When he moved his office to
the south side of the Mall after spending less than a
decade in the new National Museum, Ravenel made
the Arts and Industries Building flourish as much as
any part of the Institution flourished during the 1920s.
He probably deserves the title of grandfather of the
Museum of American History. He retired June 30, 1932,
and when he died the following year, a memorial service
was held in the auditorium. After Ravenel’s retirement,
Arts and Industries came close to becoming a “finished
museum,” mainly because of lack of funding, but crowds
flocking to see Lindbergh’s Spirit of St. Lows kept the
building lively.

Alexander Wetmore

In 1925, when Ravenel moved to Arts and Industries,
Alexander Wetmore became Assistant Secretary in
charge, and ran the Museum until well after World
War II. Wetmore was the first to be titled Director of
the United States National Museum. Throughout his
William de C. Ravenel, in a photograph published in local
newspapers in 1918.

tenure he had to contend with inadequate funding and
a limited staff, yet the collections grew and good re-
search was published by those under him. One of the
pieces of furniture in the director's office was the large
desk once used by Secretary Baird; Wetmore was proud
of this heirloom and its owner. Later the desk was taken
back across the Mall and still later returned to the east
wing. It is a prized piece of furniture, for display and
not for use.

During this period it was customary for all inquiries
from the public to be answered officially by the director.
Inquiries were sent to the departments, which prepared
replies for the director’s signature. Over several years
there had been a series of letters from a skilled amateur
collector of Eskimo artifacts. One day an embarrassed
Wetmore brought a stranger to the ethnologist Henry
Collins’s office. The amateur had come to Washington
anxious to meet Dr. Wetmore, for he was impressed
that such a renowned ornithologist could also be so
knowledgeable about Eskimo culture.

“Alexander Wetmore is so familiar a figure to sci-
entists as the dean of American ornithology that it is
difficult to realize that he has been directly associated
with the Smithsonian Institution since 1924,”* Ripley
wrote of him in 1976, on the occasion of his ninetieth
birthday. Wetmore’s activity both in the office and in
the field was only then coming to a close. After his
death in 1979, a British colleague remembered him
with affection and respect: “Dr. Wetmore was, in a
sense, an old-fashioned ornithologist, museum-based,
his field work centred round collecting—one who pro-

130

vides the facts that others use. He did not originate
new theories, seemingly distrustful of the sweeping
generalization, as is often the case with those who are
very familiar with the facts and see, more clearly than
most, the exceptions and difficulties that need be taken
into account."

A. Remington Kellogg

Wetmore was appointed Secretary of the Smithsonian
Institution in 1945, but continued to run the Museum
unul May 1948, when A. Remington Kellogg was named
director of the United States National Museum. Kellogg
was the second person to hold this exact combination
of title and position. He moved up to Assistant Secretary
of the Smithsonian Institution in February 1958 and
got a chuckle out of the fact that when he retired in
1962, he was replaced by three appointees—an assistant
secretary, the director of the United States National
Museum, and the director of the National Museum of
Natural History.

“The period of Kellogg’s administrative appoint-
ments was an active one for the Smithsonian,” wrote
Frank Whitmore of the Geological Survey, Kellogg’s
fellow aficionado of fossil whales. The Museum’s col-
lecions grew from 25 million to 56 million specimens;
“almost all of the exhibit halls in the Natural History
Building were modernized, the scientific staff of the
Museum was enlarged, and many new research pro-
grams were initiated; and the new National Museum
of History and Technology ... was built. Despite the
demands of these and many other services, Kellogg
managed to spend part of each day in research on fossil
marine mannals.””

All this is accurate and yet not quite the whole story.
Watson Perrygo stated, “One day A. W. [Wetmore]
asked me who might make a good director and I sug-
gested Kelly.” Perrygo was an outgoing, diplomatic per-
son who had a real way with people, and perhaps his
suggestion did crystallize Wetmore’s thoughts. Later,
Perrygo said, Wetmore told him to ask Kellogg if he
would take the position, but as anticipated, Kellogg
immediately refused. Perrygo was told to persist, and
eventually Kellogg said, “Tell the boss I'll do it.” Kellogg
became director, but he was a reluctant administrator.

Edward Henderson, who rode to work with Kellogg
for years, speculated that the appointment was in part
the result of a common background—both Wetmore
and Kellogg were graduates of the University of Kansas
and of the Biological Survey—and in part a recompense
for the long delay in Kellogg’s advancement within the
Museum. Kellogg spent thirteen years as an assistant
curator of mammals under Gerritt S. Miller, Jr.,° before
being promoted to curator. This was a typical career
pattern for staff members hired between the wars.

Once Kellogg assumed office, he immediately gained
an unofficial title, “the abominable no man.” He char-
acteristically took a dim view of requests for travel funds,

The Museum
Richard Cowan, standing,
examining material collected
in South America for a plant
hall that never was con-
structed. Stooping is Regin-
ald J. Sayre of the exhibits
staff, and leaning forward is
Thomas Soderstrom, curator
of botany. This was in closed-
off Hall 30—the whale hall
on the south side of the sec-
ond floor—as indicated by
exhibits in the case behind.
Late 1960s.

al w/e, ts

~

sa
A a, a

w« Ba

\

A
i K ‘
ventas en Mitte bon seohigey

wi

wh

wah,

wh

wah,

Lani

