\
‘
h

AY) g iy
, he
DY OR eae ek cou
> fri vl! NS // NZ, Al
vA) vA \ NR» Paes /)
A bs} a :

Was Y \ aadece | P<7' * (~<a

A \ 00/7

g \ A

Seg
ON eL_gs.
PADAOaAXC

BOSTON
PUBLIC
LIBRARY

ws

hei oa tg
Hiee 0 Oe)
Pee ina

‘nm ; ny

ig ih iL?

if
q
Pe

a es
my

. ge 4)
- ! ‘i
Sie u j
i ween
j
OO
i
—:
ee =e ~
‘
.
t
1
-

|
| Re

SMITHSONIAN

YEAR
1967
Smithsonian Year
1967

ANNUAL REPORT OF THE
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION FOR THE YEAR
ENDED UNE “305 “1967, INCLUDING, THE
PEINANGIAL REPORT+OF THE (EXECUTIVE
COMMITTEE OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
Washington 1967
The Smithsonian Institution

The Smithsonian Institution was created by act of Congress in 1846,
in accordance with the terms of the will of James Smithson, of England,
who in 1826 bequeathed his property to the United States of America
‘“‘to found at Washington, under the name of the Smithsonian Institu-
tion, an establishment for the increase and diffusion of knowledge
among men.” In receiving the property and accepting the trust,
Congress determined that the Federal Government was without
authority to administer the trust directly, and, therefore, constituted
an ‘‘establishment,’’ whose statutory members are “the President,
the Vice President, the Chief Justice, and the heads of the executive
departments.”

THE EsTABLISHMENT

Lynpon B. Jounson, President of the United States
Husert H. Humpwrey, Vice President of the United States
EArt WarRREN, Chief Justice of the United States
“DEAN Rusk, Secretary of State

Henry H. Fow ter, Secretary of the Treasury
Rosert S. McNamara, Secretary of Defense
Ramsey Cxiark, Attorney General
LAWRENCE F. O’Brien, Postmaster General
STEWART L. UDALL, Secretary of Interior
OrVILLE L. FREEMAN, Secretary o° Agriculture
ALEXANDER B. TROBRIDGE, Secretary of Commerce
W. WILLARD WirTz, Secretary of Labor
Joun W. GARDNER, Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare
Rosert C. WEAVER, Secretary of Housing and Urban Development
Aan S. Boyp, Secretary of Transportation
Board of Regents and Secretary

Presiding Officer ex officio
Chancellor

Regents of the Institution

Executive Committee

Secretary
Assistant Secretaries

June 30, 1967

Lynpon B. Jounson, President of the
United States

EARL WarRREN, Chief Justice of the
United States

EaRL WarrEN, Chief Justice of the
United States, Chancellor

Hupert H. HumpuHrey, Vice President
of the United States

Cxiinton P. ANDERsoN, Member of the
Senate

J. Wrti1am Futsricut, Member of the
Senate

Hucu Scott, Member of the Senate

Frank T. Bow, Member of the House of
Representatives

MiIcHAEL J. Kirwan, Member of the
House of Representatives

GrorcE H. Manon, Member of the
House of Representatives

Joun Nicuoras Brown, citizen of Rhode
Island

WiiuiaAM A. M. BurDEN, citizen of New
York

RosBert V. FLEMING, citizen of Washing-
ton, D.C.

CRAWFORD H. GREENEWALT, citizen of
Delaware

Cary P. Haskins, citizen of Washington,
D.C.

JrERoME C. HuNSAKER, citizen of Massa-
chusetts

Rosert V. FLEmiInG, Chairman, CLINTON
P. ANDERSON, CARYL P. HAskKINS

S. Ditton RiPLey

JAMEs BRADLEY, Assistant Secretary

Smney R. GALter, Assistant Secretary
(Science)

A listing of the professional staff of the Smithsonian Institution, its
bureaus, and its offices, appears in Appendix 7.
The annual report of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution appears
under the general title Smithsonian Year.

It contains the reports of the bureaus and branches of the Institution, including
that of the United States National Museum. This report on the activities of its
component Museums of Natural History and of History and Technology,
was last issued as a separate publication for fiscal year 1964, appearing in 1965.
Issuance of the annual report of the Secretary is no longer followed by appear-
ance of a greenbound volume containing a General Appendix of articles in
the sciences and the arts. The last of the old series is that for 1964.

Reprints of each of the bureau reports are available. To some of them are
appended tabulated, statistical, and other information of primary interest to
those concerned with the particular field covered, and which for reasons of
space can no longer be carried in this volume.

SMITHSONIAN PUBLICATION 4729
Contents

rece bctablishimentsme wet. 2c, <> en oe c,h eS. ke oe ce SERS li
ceeeomithsontan institution: ©. <.°. 2° lace oe es. Sea Bek iii
STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY .. . SETS TONES GA Sa SALLY ]
SMITHSONIAN ACTIVITIES—NATURAL Saiiitths SEIN CONST ATL, WDA: 43
@RRICELOR ECOLOGY .°.9. . ; Beatie eee tea ac SAN, AOE PE AO 45
OFFICE OF OCEANOGRAPHY AND. Lainokoer: VATS AO MOET Ah See 63
INIUSEUMIOR NATURAL IEIISTORY. 0) 2) 4) 5) 2) oo eee, ee LL AR Sirs 73
Rescarcheandsbuplication™ jai) eee) ask. ee A hee did
SYSteIMaticsia tea winery Se Res TR HOLT A 2 AR es oot 2 77
EXECHTODOMGR Ye? ct Se heer eA ena es EUR RADE: of A SEY 78
Botany ee RO ROT VIO: MARE ened 87
IPintomologys. <=.) Sb Sx) i ee ee A ee 90°
mnverteprate Zoology ear. BALE © TORY TA EI STUS 93
MineraleScrences *49 24,55.. ) See Grd SOLERO ayy, | 96
aleablology ee 8h. SGP th ees ein el, Se Be SI, 99
MertepEate ZOOLOGY 1. ee) 3) se ot a> a PERE I A, 104
mher@ollections.# 3% <4. 0 scs oy cet, OE AE, ORR 1 NY Se 109
IEXHIDItS ee yee hoc) ae ona ee eae Ns POA, oy 125
Stafigbublications) £27003. 25 <:r.<d ¢ OARS , RA 129
NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK .. . CUE MERTOVT ER MS Ne 155
SMITHSONIAN TROPICAL RESEARCH INeTRLOTE ) LARD ARR RM, YO 28 171
RADIATION BrioLoGy LABORATORY .. . BE AeAa BOTTA We NOs 183
SMITHSONIAN ASTROPHYSICAL Onin vanony > ot BTR La Gey aot 193
@pucalyAcstronomy™ °°. 0 < oder. SES Mee, A oer 93
RadioPAStronomy: ©. ie! 2! os ass) ats an 8 en ey RAO 195
Gammayicay Astronomy ...° <5, «+ Nee Te. OA Rea el IG
iBhcorctical Astrophysics." 28 hse ot ers) bee wt As) 2) oe oo ROB
Elasietaryaorudies = > 2/12 19 OSU ss Seties i Oa. 3 202
Flight Experiments... . [Se SOO res Be aaa, 4. 206
Meteorites and Cosmic Dues TS DESO TG SAY Ey RIOD, oh 207
Gometszand#Meteors™ 6 0 64 cae oo , 211
Elstarical-Astronomy* <<. tee GUA, hat edna, £212
GentraléBureaus=s ee IE: ee Aa. 212
Stal Changes 2° 343)... ss... SURMe Seressneoe) oan 5 | |-213
SUE LEN oa eee Me ae ae CE an A tn Ty Se 2
Page

SMITHSONIAN ACTIVITIES—HIsTORY AND ART ............-: 229
MuSEGKUOE ElisTORY.AND) ECHNOLOGY. 05 i) a) a eee 231
Research andeeublicatione] eens es eee ee 237
Science:and. Hechnology: 3 9. . <2. 5 = : 5 4 = =O
Artsiand’Mianufactunes: = 9). @ see ee ee 241

Civil History S$) oy 4 oo oe ope SP ee,
American’ Studies’... .. (8 894 RANEMS 2 we cs ae eee 251
Armed:Forces History =. 5. 9. =. «© « « = © = 5 © ener

The‘ Collections: : 9. 20. = 3 « ¢REBEn @ 6 os 2 eee 259
Exhibits: 25 (5 00. tes RR os) Get ae 271
Staff Publications .. . 1 SA | os) gg 277
NATIONAL AIR AND SPACE Misetne Ras ae 2gorcig Soe 283
NATIONAL ARMED Forces Mus—EuM ADVISORY Boakp meee 293
FREER GALLERY OF ART ... . ee er | UC)
NATIONAL COLLECTION OF FINE Apes ei eee © Gis se: 307
INATIONAL LORTRAIT GALEERY) nme aie ence baht cue eee 325
NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART... . 31,4 eee eee 337
Joun F. KENNEDY CENTER FOR THE Peeeorarse Pee ee ee
JosepH H. HrrsHHORN MusEUM AND SCULPTURE GARDEN ...... 375
OTHER SMITHSONIAN ACTIVITIES, PROGRAMS, AND SERVICES ..... . 379
UniTrepD STratTEs NaTIONAL MusEuM. . . . pic ueaeaae 381
Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Senvien «haces ROME ee BeOS
Conservation-Analytical Laboratory .. . . - . «0: )-)eeenoeooS
@fficejof Exhibits; ...-5. 0... fo we ce ee 389
Office BF the Registrar... 2%. 2...) 4x. 95.» ee eee ee
INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGE SERVICE: = =. =. = - « » ysl 399
SCIENCE INFORMATION EXCHANGE  . . . . : - =. ., + 5.2) Eee 401
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION LIBRARIES = = |. . |. . Geecineeeeueeee 405
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION) PRESS) 920). 2) 2s Seueelss 2 eee 409
OFFICE OF INTERNATIONAL ACTIVITIESH NT: 0) ie) Guan on ae ee 413
@EEICE(OF EDUCATION -ANDMERAINING) 3) oa pn ie ace ee 427
OFFICE\OF PuBLic APFAIRS® so assent) tasers a ee
SuarrHsoNIAN Museum SERVICE... ..- < .. 1» “wean 433
SMITHSONIAN ASSOCIATES .. . SS ah S22 Fy Oe ea ee 435
ADMINISTRATIVE SUPPORT Senanens er ee 439
APPENDIX | o-oo Soe es Ry be eon ys) a. eh cee pear od
1. Report of the Executive Committee of the Board of Regents . . 445

2. Smithsonian Foreign Currency Program Grants ....... 471

3. Publications: of the Smithsonian Pressj9e 44.000) Gee ee 475

4. Smithsonian Associates . . . 5 kk skyecienth he can nena

5. Members of the Smithsonian Council: Pres ees 489

6. Research Participation Programs, Appointments... ... . 495

7. Staff of the Smithsonian Institution =. - =. . - caeeeeeeeee 501
Statement by the Secretary
wm, ee ere {haere ap: 208

Sith ‘, af,0%\\6 Mw OF: ee ecdtn t
| vt in & by ay Sah aa,
Te 1h Sete
~ - ? ;
4 é °
7
aie
7 oT i = ee hi
4
YUISTIE. OM)
a. pe ad
: aw - os
- is
4 , q 1 07 ad
a
: ; wintytm
—$<——$— a “ts
a ay 7 .
el ay | ap
, 7
us >
fe? ‘

Statement by the Secretary

S. Ditton RIPLEY

OME YEARS AGO, IN CONVERSATION, the late Robert Oppen-

heimer remarked to me that he felt that men in the future
would find the single area of greatest discovery in biology.
Oppenheimer was of course thinking primarily of the then ex-
citing discoveries in molecular biology, the end effects of which,
while perhaps inevitably upon us, will not be revealed for many
years.

As a biologist, one might now question whether there is
not another area where discoveries rather than refinements
await us. I’o me it seems that the single area which needs the
greatest amount of attention from discoverers is that uncharted
and almost unknown field which might be called social biology.
The field is unknown and uncharted because it is not a specialty,
and today most scientists are trained for narrow specialties.
Biologists are concerned primarily with laboratory or field
studies of animal and plant species. Sociologists are concerned
primarily with the study of the origins and history and constitu-
tion of human society. In universities the departments of the
two disciplines are usually in separate buildings, and in libraries
the books they use tend to come from different parts of the
stacks.

In fact, sociologists labor under the disadvantage of being
somewhat luxated; are they scientists or are they humanists?
It is a symbol of the age that they should feel thus dislocated.
It is of course unnecessary. Similarly, some thoughtful biologists
tend today to feel slightly uncomfortable about being scientists.
Science in the public mind has come to be associated almost
exclusively with the physical sciences or with medicine. Scien-
tists are white-coated men, either possessed of a Batman-like
syndrome, about to fly off into space, or else all-knowing, wise
versions of Dr. Kildare. In any case, biologists who have to do
2 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967

with physico-chemical processes involving the components of a
single cell, or those who are involved with medical science, can
perhaps feel closer to the physical scientists and to medicine.

But biologists associated with natural phenomena in gross,
external terms, with population biology and the dynamics of
large systems, and with much of what is today called ecology
(a badly misused word in most cases) as well as paleobiologists
and evolutionists—many of these sorts of biologists find them-
selves somewhat dislocated. Perhaps they are in danger of be-
coming humanists? Perhaps indeed the scientific sociologists and
the humanist biologists are approaching each other, figures on a
darkened and uncharted stage.

When one says that there is an area here which perhaps
contains the single, greatest problem that man faces today, one
is referring to problems of human survival and of morality.
Here it must be said that many scientists are greatly troubled
about the responsibilities and the integrity of science. Scientists
and sociologists alike work in disciplines where study brings
them a knowledge of the social consequences of the discovery
of new technologies and of new principles about behavior. By
training, however, most scientists tend to be cautious about
ascribing broad implications to the results of narrowly defined
and controlled experiments. Science-minded sociologists tend to
have kindred feelings, and often prefer to remain aloof from the
dangerous area where theoretical results are correlated with non-
controlled situations.

And yet there is a responsibility to speak out. As the condi-
tions of the environment deteriorate, as the social disorders of
the age deepen, the special relationship between the scientist’s
social responsibilities and his general duties of citizenship grows
critical. As Commoner says, “‘If the scientist, directly or by infer-
ences from his actions, lays claim to a special responsibility for
the resolution of the policy issues which relate to technology,
he may, in effect, prevent others from performing their own —
political duties. If the scientist fails in his duty to inform citizens,
they are precluded from the gravest acts of citizenship and lose
their right of conscience.”’*

*Barry Commoner. Science and Survival. New York, 1966, p. 130.
STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY 3

In 1847 Joseph Henry, meditating upon the course of the
Smithsonian Institution, wrote: ‘“To effect the greatest amount
of good, the organization should be suchas to enable the Institution
to produce results in the way of increasing and diffusing knowl-
edge, which cannot be produced by the existing institutions in
our country.” What is there that we in the Smithsonian can
think upon which would illumine the basic problems confronting
social biology?

There are certainly three paths along which we might travel
toward illumination: one leads to the study of terrestrial environ-
ment, another to the study of our social environment, and the
third to the study of man as an evolving species.

The disorder of our age is graphically illustrated by the slow
degrading of man’s terrestrial environment. There is something
inherently wrong with man’s relations with his environment.
Nature suffers continually in an undeclared war. Man, animated
by hunger for profit or for spectacular action, continually erodes
our landscape. Many feel indeed that this is appropriate, that
man and nature can never live in harmony. Thomas Hardy said,
“nature and man can never be friends.”? Must we then kill off
our enemy and in so doing kill off ourselves?

Biologists have a social duty to alert citizens to the inescap-
able results of such mass suicide. In this Institution we have in
particular one great scientific resource to bring to bear upon
this problem. Our sorts of biologists are concerned with the
quality of the environment, for they are concerned with sys-
tematics, with setting into categories organisms that are inescap-
ably a part of the particular environments within which they,
as species, live. The assembled data about species in relation to
their environments assumes an historic and important relevance
to the environment as it is today. That is, the recordings of sys-
tematists become a series of benchmarks against which modern
environments can be gauged. To put it in crude terms we know
for example that the American mountain lion was exterminated
from all the eastern seaboard States by the late 1800s, except
for the fastnesses of Florida and parts of West Virginia and Ver-
mont. Today the principal population of mountain lions survives
precariously only in parts of the Sierra Nevada and the high
mountains of the West. We also know why. We know the food
habits, the predator-prey food chain, the range requirements,
4 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967

the amount of “leaving alorie’”’ which a mountain lion requires
in order to live and reproduce its kind. In a similar way we know
the requirements of a whole series of animal and plant species,
and what happened to them when these requirements were not
met.

All these situations are similar in that a certain formula is
involved. A proportion of one or another sets of conditions is
required, without which a certain species will not occur. The
declining ratio of natural to man-made conditions over the con-
tinent creates multiple effects which can be measured or simu-
lated through models. The results, when arrayed against the
resources of the planet, surely could tell us much of the ability
of various species to survive. The results also tell us something
of man’s plasticity and tolerance, and of his ability to survive —
the changes he is introducing into the environment.

One of the keys to American success in foreign aid and indeed
in foreign relations will be the degree to which American plan-
ners pay attention to the knowledge of environmental problems
already possessed by American scientists. At present there is
little if any indication that aid planners or foreign policy planners
have ever heard of ecology or would know how to talk to a
systematic biologist if they met one. And yet in areas of the
tropical world today ecologists and systematists are far more
capable of predicting the effects of change in the environment
than are engineers and dam builders or agriculturists. The
proposed International Biological Program—unknown to most
planners or policy makers—has within it the capacity of mobiliz- .
ing field biologists into a concerted effort to understand the
present state of our terrestrial environment all over the world.
The resulting information could be utilized in a way which
might provide vital criteria, real benchmarks against which to
set our standards for survival for the future. Our traditional
economic and political aims, keyed to commercial development
and the promotion of consumer consciousness, have blinded us to
our own survival.

Another disorder of this age is graphically illustrated by the
decline of social and moral values in our cities. The problems of
deteriorating environment and of social disorder are related.
As the landscape suffers, man becomes less humane. As Hoffer,
speaking of our increased command over nature, says, “In many
STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY 5

parts of the world the taming of nature by rapid industrialization
gave rise to degrees of social barbarization.”’* If man cannot live
in cities as a humane individual, then he cannot survive. Thus
social biologists have a duty to alert citizens to the inescapable
results of urbanization.

In this Institution, a world center for anthropology, there
should be a whole series of benchmarks which, interpreted by
social anthropologists, could produce models of stress, crowding
phenomena, aggression and hostility. Our view derived from
these data could be of great use, indeed ensynoptic.

The Institution contains within it the national archives for
anthropology. It is the greatest actual repository of data on
American Indians. It should be the home for urgent anthropol-
ogy activities throughout the world, the salvage of ethnographic
and linguistic records before they become extinct. We are
answering Professor Levi-Strauss’ challenge to us at our Bi-
centennial Seminars in 1965. Already the Wenner-Gren Foun-
dation for Anthropological Research has responded with a
grant to the Institution for commencing these studies. Within
these materials lie the seeds of invaluable comparative research
on man’s ability to survive the disorders of this age.

It may be germane here to refer to the fact that the Smith-
sonian’s Office of Anthropology is emerging as a center of inter-
national anthropology through its organization of imaginative
new programs. In the past two years the consolidation of the
former Department of Anthropology and the Bureau of Ameri-
can Ethnology has been accomplished. A survey, in consultation
with a distinguished panel of anthropologists, has helped us
establish urgent tasks and set guidelines for the future. With
the help of Professor Sol Tax, special advisor for anthropology,
the chairman of the Office—Richard Woodbury until early
this year, now Saul Riesenberg—and the curators have been
planning three basic programs. One of the most fundamental
of these programs is that already mentioned, in urgent anthro-
pology. A second is a new, badly needed, cooperative project,
the revised Handbook of North American Indians, which will
require perhaps ten years to complete and may run to fifteen
volumes. A third and unique program is in ancient technologies.

*Eric Hoffer. The Temper of Our Time. New York, 1967.
6 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967

Using modern scientific techniques in the study of such crafts
as metal working, textile manufacture, and pottery making,
and working in conjunction with laboratories such as the Battelle
Memorial Institute as well as our own Conservation-Analytical
Laboratory, we hope for great increases in our ability to learn
from archeological finds.

As an archive for anthropological science, the Smithsonian
must mobilize every resource to support anthropological in-
formation exchange, cooperative teaching, and the coordination
of our basic understanding of man’s place in the world. In this
connection we should review the possibility, raised over the
years by our leading anthropologists, of creating a modern
Museum of Man. The emergence of new nations, as Professor
Tax has pointed out, signals the end of the era when there was
“civilized man” who ruled another kind of man called ‘‘natural
man,” and often displayed him in a museum along with precious
jewels, rocks, and dinosaurs. All cultures and all humans should
be accorded equal dignity and respect, and for this they deserve
a museum of their own.

Man has not changed genetically in fifty thousand years.
Man is, however, extraordinarily plastic and tolerant in his
individual response to life itself. The key to much of this occurs
in the experience of the maturing individual. Here again this
Institution has an enormous untapped resource, our visitors,
who each year devotedly come in their millions, bringing their
children. None of us has successfully discerned the way toward
asking the questions of our visitors which might teach us of their
inherent or innate interests. Here lie seeds for a fertile study .
which we intend to pursue. From it perhaps we may learn
something of the processes of conceptualization and synthesis
that lie at the very heart of the problem of the use of knowledge.

Ultimately, if we are to increase knowledge, it must be dif-
fused. This year marks the renaissance of the Smithsonian Insti-
tution Press as an earnest of our intent to adhere to first princi-
ples. As Professor Henry envisaged, the Institution should publish
treatises consisting ‘‘of valuable memoirs translated from foreign
languages, or of articles prepared under the direction of the
Institution, or procured by offering premiums for the best ex-
position of a given subject.’ The state of knowledge of social
STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY 7

biology will be enhanced this year, we hope, through the pub-
lication of the second Smithsonian Annual, the results of the
February 1967 conference on ‘“The Quality of Man’s Environ-
ment,” partially supported by grants from the Ford Foundation
and the Taconic Foundation. The first catalog of publications
of the Smithsonian Institution Press has just been issued.

Last summer, in August 1966, under the innovative leader-
ship of Charles Blitzer, Director of the Smithsonian programs
in education and training, a conference, supported by a grant
from the U.S. Office of Education, was held by the Institution
on the subject of museums and education. The results, edited
by Professor Eric Larrabee, will be published shortly by the
Smithsonian’s Press. Meanwhile, a suggestion emanating from
discussions at that conference is about to be put into effect.
One’s concern with museums is partly directed toward the prob-
lem of who goes to see them. Most people go to museums be-
cause they are already won over to the proposition that a visit
is worthwhile. Many go in classes. Still others go because it is
a social duty or, like taking a vitamin pill, a nostrum for culture.
But many people who could be greatly benefited by going to
museums—who could have latent interests aroused or who would
be ripe for open education, undidactic, unstressed—never get to
museums. Some live in poor neighborhoods out of which they
do not travel. Some are inherently hostile toward marble pal-
aces. The suggestion is, then, that we help a local committee
in some urban area plan a neighborhood museum.

With the stimulating aid of grants from the Carnegie Cor-
poration of New York, the Meyer Foundation of Washington,
and the Richardson Fund of Connecticut, we are helping a
neighborhood council to create the Anacostia Neighborhood
Museum in southeast Washington. Already plans for exhibits
and participation programs have been advanced by the Neigh-
borhood Museum Committee and the Director, John Kinard.
These seem full of promise and interest, and the Museum is
opening officially September 15, 1967.

Another important experiment in education is that of an
exhibit for the blind, or, as the term is, sightless persons. With the
aid of a planning grant from the Vocational Rehabilitation
Administration, Mr. Blitzer has been working with Dr. Brian
8 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967

O’Doherty in planning an exhibit which will be stimulating
not only to sightless but also to sighted persons.

As Professor Derek Price has recently stated, in the field of
the history of science the Institution is preeminent for its re-
sources in objects and in skilled research staff. Among its greatest
treasures is a notable collection of letters and manuscripts of
Joseph Henry, who was selected by the National Historical
Publications Commission of the National Archives as the first
scientist whose papers should be published under national
auspices. It is appropriate, therefore, that the Smithsonian, in
happy conjunction with the American Philosophical Society
and the National Academy of Sciences, should have determined
to publish the papers of Joseph Henry. Aided by a vital grant
from the National Science Foundation, this project has now
commenced under the editorship of Dr. Nathan Reingold. A
guiding committee of associated specialists has been formed. In
this connection, it has also been heartening to observe the
progress made by the Institution’s talented archivist Samuel T.
Suratt in developing our manuscript collections for use by
historical scholars.

Members of the staff of the Museum of History and Tech-
nology themselves continue to produce important work, such
as Robert Multhauf’s The Origins of Chemistry (Oldbourne, 1966).
In addition, work at the forefront of modern technology con-
tinues with a comprehensive study aimed at documenting the
development of the art of the computer through interviews with
scientists and inventors, as well as through collecting printed
and manuscript material relating to the subject.

Additional monographs of our historians include Walter
Cannon’s Social History of Science in Victorian England (to be
published by Routledge and Kegan Paul); Bernard Finn’s
Sources of Thermoelectricity (to be published by Johnson); and
Sami K. Hamarneh’s Catalogue of Arabic Pharmaceutical Manu-
scripts in the British Museum; as well as Monte Calvert’s The
Mechanical Engineer in America, 1830-1910 (The Johns Hopkins
Press).

The Smithsonian Institution has been asked on numerous
occasions this year to join in planning for the bicentennial
observances of the American Revolution in 1976. The Secretary
is a member of the Federal Council on the Arts and Humanities,
Photo Courtesy W. H. Watkins

Secretary of Transportation Alan S. Boyd (below, left) and Mrs. George H.
Mahon, wife of the Smithsonian Regent, and acting Secretary James Bradley
(fourth left) chat with Bill Suitor of Bell Aerosystems Company, who demon-
strated (above) a rocket belt on the Mall, April 1, 1967, during the Pageant
marking the establishment of the new Department of Transportation.

NI285

Photo Courtesy W.H. Watkins

At the Pageant of Transportation, Don Piccard ascended in a 50-foot hot-air
balloon as Suitor demonstrated the rocket belt, and (below) the Porter Family

Puppeteers entertained young people.

nt Le pean iu ar)
MAT trae:

STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY 1]

The Smithsonian’s 1880 hotel omnibus (below) and the autos of the National
Capital Region Antique Automobile Association represented stages in the
progress of transportation.

]2 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967

The U.S. Air Force Bagpipe Band marched, and (below) the Bell Aerosystems
Company air cushion vehicle Hydroskimmer was demonstrated at the Pageant
of Transportation.

STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY 13

charged by the Congress to plan for national celebrations of an
historic nature. In addition the Secretary is a member ex officio
of the President’s ‘““American Revolution Bicentennial Com-
mission.” In its April 21, 1967, report, the House Appropriations
Committee reiterated its desire and intent that the Smithsonian
Institution shall take an active part in the celebration of the
bicentennial of the American Revolution.

There are two central physical frames of reference for the
Institution’s participation, one the new Museum of History and
Technology on the Mall, the other the authorized but still
unconstructed Armed Forces Museum and Park. In the first, a
series of exhibits and commemorative publications over the next
eight years will gradually document the coming of the Revolu-
tion. Already, two years ago, a first exhibit was held commem-
orating the Stamp Act, and this year an exhibit on George
Mason and the Bill of Rights was prepared. Next year an
exhibit covering the Townshend Acts of 1767 and the arrival of
the British Customs Commissioners will be shown. In this way, a
gradual procession of special exhibits relating to the development
of the Revolution will be constructed. In addition it is hoped
that Congress will authorize the construction of two small special
pavilions to encompass additional historic exhibits of the greatest
importance for the Bicentennial year.

The National Armed Forces Museum and Park could in
itself be a valuable adjunct to the visitor’s traversing of the
eastern seaboard from Boston to Williamsburg for the commem-
oration of the events of 1776. On the road from Washington via
the Woodrow Wilson Bridge to Mount Vernon and on to
Williamsburg, the Park, to be situated near Fort Foote, would
be a valuable intermediate point. It is hoped that a series of
important discussions on the causes of war and peace can be
held during the next year which might help to set the themes of
this Congressionally authorized museum.

In the coming year two events of artistic and historic im-
portance will occur in Washington. The first, in the spring of
1968, will be the reopening in new quarters in the old Patent
Office building of the National Collection of Fine Arts. This
should be a momentous event. Moving operations, commenced
in early 1967, will have consumed a year. Meanwhile, because of
14 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967

the energetic work of Director David W. Scott and his staff, and
because of enhanced public understanding of the role of this
important art gallery, substantial augmentations to the collection
have been made, most notably the S. C. Johnson Wax Company
collection of contemporary American artists’ works, valued at
approximately a million dollars, and the Paul Manship collec-
tion, as well as many individual gifts. The National Collection
of Fine Arts, now to be finally in a home of its own, will create
a major new artistic influence in the life of the capital.

In the latter part of 1968 an event of historic importance
will be the opening of the United States’ first National Portrait
Gallery. This is still an organization in its infancy, but given
handsome and stylish quarters and its nucleus of important
paintings and sculptural likenesses, it is the earnest hope of the
National Portrait Gallery Commission, endorsed by the Regents,
that the Gallery will attract gifts as well as Congressional interest
appropriate to its nascent stature and central importance as a
repository for historical and biographical iconography.

The work of the U.S. National Museum under its Director,
Frank Taylor, is central to some of the critical problems of our
age. Never before have museums enjoyed such a wealth of
opportunities or faced such trials as those contained in the
worldwide crisis in education and the bewildering search for
life values and standards. Educators are beginning to recognize
that museums provide much of the reality—lacking in classroom
and books—needed to stimulate curiosity and the will to learn.
Museums provide opportunities for people of all ages and con-
ditions to continue to grow with the inspiration of the works of
great artists, scholars, and patriots, the products of past and
present civilizations, and the physical evidence of the wonders
of nature.

On June 20, 1967, President Johnson wrote to the Secre-
tary—in his capacity as Chairman of the Federal Council on the
Arts and Humanities—requesting the Council to study the
status of American museums and to recommend ways to support
and strengthen them. The President’s letter, which showed his
awareness of both the problems and the potentialities of museums,
presents us with an immensely exciting challenge:

America’s five thousand museums are among our most precious
cultural and educational resources. Their collections, their trained
STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY 15

staffs, and their facilities contribute immeasurably to the enrich-
ment of the nation’s life and to educational advancement at every
level.

Not only do imaginative museum exhibits excite the curiosity
of millions; many scholars—in science, in the arts and the humani-
ties—rely upon museum collections for their raw material.

Attendance at U.S. museums has already passed 300,000,000
visits a year. In many places, inadequate museum budgets and
facilities are under severe strain. In the future, the nation’s museums
will be expected to reach and serve additional millions. Accelerated
research programs will cause more and more scholars to seek access
to museum collections.

Our museums have shown their willingness to join with other
institutions to promote the “increase and diffusion of knowledge
among men.” Certainly they should have the wherewithal to do
that great work effectively.

We are eager to respond to this challenge.

For 125 years the Smithsonian has shared its experience and
resources with museums of the United States and abroad. In the
past year an entirely new volume and quality of museum assist-
ance was reached. A start was made to investigate the funda-
mentals of the interaction between the museum visitor and
exhibited objects, and to reach, through neighborhood museums
and traveling exhibits, those people who do not visit museums.
Evaluation of the museum experience, experimentation with
communication through senses other than sight, and a study of
museum audiences and their needs, were undertaken.

The National Museum Act of 1966, passed by the Congress
and approved by the President in October 1966, reaffirmed the
Smithsonian’s role of assistance to museums and authorized
appropriations to meet needs and to study problems common to
all museums. In the Act, Congress recognized that museums are
important elements of the cultural and educational development
of the United States.

Though no appropriations have yet been made under the
Act, it has stimulated requests for aid from every State and a
score of nations. In the spirit of the Act, the Smithsonian has
entered into agreements with other museums to train science-
museum technicians, has participated in the first Museum Con-
ference for Small Museums, in Texas, and has provided many
on-the-spot consultative services ranging from the direction of
Secretary Ripley presents photographs of Korean exhibits in the Museum of
Natural History to His Excellency Il Kwon Chung, Prime Minister of Korea,
at a reception in his honor in the Museum of History and Technology.

the planning of acquisitions and interpretation for a large
museum department (at Oakland, California) to the structuring
of a workshop on exhibits preparation for a community (in
Charleston, West Virginia) of small museums which are con-
ducted largely with volunteer services.

In cooperation with officers of the American Association of
Museums representations have been made to Government
agencies justifying direct Federal aid for the construction of
museum facilities on the basis of the increased demands made
upon museums by educational institutions stimulated by the
Federal aid available to schools. In addition new Federal aid
has prompted schools to take advantage of museums as supple-
mentary teaching centers and to use them for curriculum
improvement and enrichment.

At the request of the Minister of Education of the Republic
of Korea and of the Director of the Pacific Science Board of the
National Academy of Sciences, the Smithsonian participated
in the Symposium on a Korean National Science Museum
and supported the attendance at Seoul of a number of museum
professionals from other institutions. The report of the Sym-
STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY 17

posium recommended a planning study for which the Korean
Government has since appropriated the equivalent of $25,000.
A newly formed foundation, The American Friends of the
Korean National Science Cultural Center, under the direction
of Joseph A. Patterson, former Director of the American Asso-
ciation of Museums, is endeavoring to obtain the balance of
the support required for the study.

The attendance of the Chairman of the United States
National Committee of the International Council of Museums
at the ICOM Cairo Conference on Museum Exhibition was
supported. Progress in the planning for a regional laboratory
to produce exhibits on science and technology for developing
countries was set back by the war in the Middle East. The
Secretary of the Smithsonian is now a member of the ICOM
Executive Committee and one of its Vice Presidents.

The cooperative publishing program with the American
Association of Museums was continued, with the Smithsonian
Institution Press undertaking distribution of the Museums
Directory of the United States and Canada and with an agreement
to share the cost of the publication of the revision of
the manual, Museum Registration Methods, by Dorothy H.
Dudley and Irma Bezold. A more substantial share was assumed
in the work of tabulating the returns from the questionnaire on
museum education which was sponsored jointly by the American
Association of Museums, the United States Office of Education,
and the Smithsonian Institution.

One year of use of the series of teaching exhibits on the
elementary physics of light for 4th- to 6th-grade students was
completed in three schools of the Fairfax (Virginia) County
School System. The results obtained from these exhibits were
universally approved by the teachers and principals who
observed them. Many side effects resulted from the experiment,
such as increasing the self-reliance of students who had their
first learning experiences as individuals away from the classroom,
and the stimulation of determined nonreaders to learn to read.
The Prince William County Schools have requested the exhibits
for next year and have undertaken to provide a thorough and
credible evaluation test as part of the County’s program under
Title III of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of
1965.
18 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967

The Smithsonian Council assembled twice, in October and
again in March, for discussions with the Secretary and members
of the professional staff. Dr. Ralph E. Alston, one of the initial
Council members from the University of Texas, died February
17, 1967. Jan LaRue, Professor of Music at the Graudate
School of Arts and Sciences of New York University, and Elting
Morison, Acting Master of Ezra Stiles College at Yale Univer-
sity, joined the Council during the year.

At the October meeting members discussed the development
of a center for scholars in Washington and the relations of such
a center to the consortium of local universities. Subcommittees
met with members of the department of science and technology
and heard reports of current Smithsonian activities from the
National Portrait Gallery and the staff of the Office of Anthro-
pology. Among other subjects treated by the Council were: the
problem of managing special exhibits and public service projects,
the selection of post-doctoral research associates, the possibility
of forming a union library catalog within the center for scholars,
and the extent to which museum staff members should engage
in graduate-level teaching. The Secretary led a discussion of the
attributes of museum scholars compared to their university
colleagues and the problem of the place of museum objects in
scholarship.

At the second meeting there was further discussion of the
Smithsonian libraries and of the proposal for a union catalog
serving all Washington libraries. The Council heard reports
from Eugene Wallen on Smithsonian oceanographic activities
and from Peter Farb, designer of the hall of insects for the
Museum of Natural History. Frank Taylor presented a report
on recent experiments in museum practices and the organiza-
tional changes indicated by a modernized exhibits program. At
the dinner concluding the meetings, Mrs. Adelyn Breeskin, our
distinguished consultant in modern art and education, spoke on
the present role of our galleries and museums in fostering an
appreciation of art.

The long continuing effort of the Smithsonian Institution
and other institutions and individuals to effect United States
membership in the International Centre at Rome for the Study
of the Preservation and Restoration of Cultural Property has
made notable progress. The Department of State has said that
STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY 19

it will support United States membership in the Centre (which
is an international organization of member states) and sug-
gested that the Smithsonian undertake to obtain the legislation
authorizing the membership. ‘To this end the Smithsonian held
a number of meetings of representatives of interested institutions
and agencies who have indicated a uniform support of U.S.
membership. The legislation necessary to authorize membership
has been drafted for introduction in Congress during the current
session. Both the United States and the Centre would gain from
U.S. membership and the worldwide task of preserving cultural
objects and paintings would be greatly aided by an increase of
research, training, consultation, and the dissemination of knowl-
edge of advances in scientific conservation.

A start has now been made in developing the Arts and
Industries building as the renamed Smithsonian Exposition
Hall. Exhibits which are outside the scope of the interests of
particular Smithsonian elements but which have substantial
social interest were held: the exhibit of work of the young men
and women of the Job Corps was one; another was the collection
of present day appliquéd molas produced for sale by the San
Blas Indians.

The Smithsonian Institution’s Traveling Exhibition Service
has circulated 108 exhibitions during the year, including the
tremendously successful ““Art Treasures of Turkey.”? Among its
innovative projects, the Service has implemented an art program
for District of Columbia schools on a matching-fund basis with
with the National Endowment for the Arts, through the D.C.
Recreation Department. Seven schools were involved, with
seven exhibitions redistributed five times.

The general public’s insatiable quest for information on
every subject was reflected again this year in letters of inquiry
and letters transmitting items for identification. These communi-
cations, coming particularly from elementary and secondary
students and numbering 250 to 275 a week, were received and
processed through the Office of the Registrar. Dinosaurs re-
mained the most popular subject, with American Indians run-
ning a close second, followed by Stradivarius violins, coins, and
requests for information on early Americana. The NBC Smith-
sonian television series generated a sizable influx of questions
relating to the subject matter of the programs. Typically, one
20 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967

young man wrote, “I love your television shows but I like the
one on meteorites best. Please send me... .”

The shipping office completed a most active year, having
processed 14,947 incoming and outgoing pieces, totaling
1,079,702 pounds. Among the interesting and significant types
of cargo handled were 16,000 pounds of whale bones and skulls
carried by motor freight from California; the 15,000-pound El
Taco, Campo del Cielo meteorite, shipped back to the Smith-
sonian from Germany after cutting, and later, by special arrange-
ment, returned to Argentina together with a model of the original
specimen; and a collection of Mexican coins weighing 4,000
pounds that was successfully moved by combined air and
armored car service on a rigid schedule and security basis.
Valuable pieces of art for the National Collection of Fine Arts’
special shows, a 25,000-pound McMillan synchrotron, a chariot
dated 1825, and a fragile Flemish marquetry cabinet were also
transported through careful and painstaking efforts of the staff.

Maintaining the high quality and level of exhibits produc-
tivity of the past several years, the Office of Exhibits of the United
States National Museum opened six new permanent exhibition
halls to the general public during the year—including the first
two halls of the Institution’s unique Growth of the United States
exhibition in the Museum of History and Technology, a com-
prehensive visual survey of every aspect of United States history.
In addition, the Office completed supplementary portions of 25
other permanent exhibition halls and produced 29 temporary
and special exhibits—some of them of major national and inter-
national importance, such as the special exhibit on Chile, in
conjunction with that country; the large-scale Alaska Centennial
exhibit; the World Exposition of Photography exhibit; the
Vinland Map exhibit, which with its accompanying symposium
drew scholars from all over the world; and the breathtaking
Wedgwood exhibit, produced in conjunction with the 1967
Wedgwood International Seminar.

Continuing in its role of service for the development and
application of exhibition techniques throughout the museum
world, the Office of Exhibits received into its laboratories—for
purposes of observation, instruction, and advice—more than 200
professionals from museums all over the United States and more
than a score of foreign countries.
STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY 21

The Bill (H. R. 6125) authorizing the construction of a
new Air and Space Museum building on the Mall was signed
by President Johnson on July 19, 1966. This legislation expanded
the name officially to National Air and Space Museum and,
among other provisions, also expanded the membership of the
Museum’s Advisory Board to include all Federal and Defense
Agencies dealing with aerospace activities. During the year the
President appointed an additional civilian member, Mr. James
Wilmot of Syracuse, New York.

Since no construction funds have yet been considered by the
Congress, budgets for current operations are being held at levels
approximating those of prior years, seriously restricting efforts
to build up the necessary professional staff and to improve the
character and quality of current exhibits. Within the available
dollar and manpower limitations, however, work has progressed
toward sorting, preserving, and cataloging specimens for display
and documentary material for inclusion in the growing histori-
cal research center. The Museum has also acquired for its aero-
space collections a number of new specimens of importance.

An important step in this direction was taken in March 1967
with the signing of a joint agreement between the Smithsonian
Institution and the National Aeronautics and Space Adminis-
tration, as a result of which the historically important air and
space artifacts developed by NASA will be transferred to the
National Air and Space Museum after technical evaluation. To
allow this program to get under way, NASA provided a $200,000
fund on a nonrecurring basis.

A number of nationally important aerospace award cere-
monies were held in the Smithsonian during the year. These
included two presentations of the Robert J. Collier Trophy; the
1965 award to the late Dr. Hugh Dryden and Mr. James E.
Webb, and the 1966 award to James McDonnell. The Smith-
sonian’s own Langley Medal was presented to Dr. Wernher
von Braun on June 6, 1967.

Central to the issue of the new Museum are two questions
of importance to scholars of the future. The first revolves around
the presentation of the exhibits, which must be creative and
stimulating, revealing to the layman and the specialist alike new
insights into man’s quest for mastery of the air. At the same time
the Smithsonian’s Air and Space Museum, if it is to be appropri-
Kite-flying contest on the
Mall, sponsored by Smith-
sonian Associates and Na-
tional Air and Space Muse-
um, March 25, 1967. It was
preceded by a lecture series
and workshop conducted by
curator Paul Garber, who
described the national ori-
gins of kites, their types,
technical characteristics, and
role in the development of
the airplane. Exhibit in
Museurn of Natural History
rotunda displayed kites—68,
of 20 different types from 18
nations. Contest winners
demonstrated their kites at
the Pageant of Transporta-
tion, April 1.

/
‘

24 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967

ately creative and innovative, must become a pioneer force in a
new aspect of history, the history of air and space. Little is
being done in the Nation at large, either with archives and rec-
ords or with objects, to create such a branch of history—the
history of aeronautics as a branch of the history of science
and technology and of social history. In conjunction with other
Smithsonian scholars, the Air and Space Museum staff should
prepare for teaching and the publication of research in this new
field. A tangible incentive to such activity has been the receipt
this year of a most generous bequest from the estate of Mrs.
Juanita Ramsay, late widow of Admiral DeWitt Clinton
Ramsay, the income of which may be used to support publica-
tions in the field of historical scholarship in aviation. Much
more of this needs to be creatively attempted if the Air and
Space Museum is to live up to its important obligations.

In this year the Joseph H. Hirshhorn collection has formally
come under the aegis of the Institution. A site on the Mall for
this unique new museum and sculpture garden has already been
authorized by Congress; the architect, Gordon Bunshaft, is at
work; and funds for operation have already been appropriated
by the Congress. Abram Lerner has been appointed Director
of the new gallery and has continued his busy role as curator
of the collection in preparing materials for loan, one of which,
a collection of 53 pieces of sculpture, is currently on exhibition
at Dartmouth College (see Sculpture in Our Century; selections
from the Joseph H. Hirshhorn collection, 1967, Hopkins Center,
Dartmouth College, Hanover, New Hampshire). Mr. Hirshhorn
is continually adding important works to the collection. Since
the formal presentation of the collection to the United States,
an abbreviated list of acquisitions includes works by Cassatt,
Cornell, Stuart Davis, Ernst, Falguiére, Fontana, Sam Francis,
George Grosz, Ipoustéguy, Zoltan Kemeny, Moore, Nadelman,
Nicholson, Olitski, Picasso, Pomodoro, Rauschenberg, Rodin,
Sargent, Sheeler, and Frank Stella. Mr. Hirshhorn’s continued
enthusiasm and personal spirit and energy know no bounds. The
Nation will long have cause to remember him.

In some of the Institution’s special science fields the past
year has been one of notable achievement. In the work of the
Radiation Biology Laboratory, a “‘first’? has been the successful
measuring of the relative sensitivity of the control of growth and
STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY 25

bending responses of moss cells by various regions of the visible
spectrum. These data, obtained by plant physiologist Bernard
Nebel, indicate that light control occurs through continuous
excitation of both absorbing forms of the well-known pigment
system phytochrome. This role of phytochrome has not been
reported previously, and may have general significance in under-
standing plant development under natural environmental condi-
tions.

Plants were grown under newly developed artificial light
sources having a constant color quality but capable of mimicking
natural daily variations in sunlight intensity and daylength.
Normal daylength responses, such as time of flowering, known
to occur in these plants, were greatly altered, depending upon
the direction of incremental change in daylength. For example,
the critical photoperiod to induce flowering could be changed
by several hours depending upon whether the daily photoperiod
was decreasing or increasing. Such data, obtained by Laboratory
Director William Klein, assisted by plant physiologists Leonard
Price and Victor Elstad, indicate that the concept of a specific
critical photoperiod for any given species of plant may be in-
correct, and these data may change entirely our present views of
the mechanism of light control of flowering.

During the winter a graduate-level seminar series of 13
lectures in photobiology attracted an average of 160 participants
weekly. Experts in the major areas of photobiology lectured and
then informally answered questions and discussed their current
research. The program was jointly supported by the Smithsonian
and the Consortium of Washington Area Universities. Graduate
credit was offered and new research interests of both students
and professionals were greatly stimulated.

At an ecology seminar held with a visiting group of ecologists
from the University of Michigan, led by Professor Lawrence
Slobodkin, biochemist David Correll of the Radiation Biology
Laboratory suggested a new method for measuring gross primary
productivity in aquatic ecosystems. The method involves the
measurement of the rate of incorporation of 3?P-phosphate into
imidodiphosphate compounds, which are the first products of
photophosphorylation in algae. Combined with net primary
productivity, as measured by 'C-carbon dioxide incorporation
or bomb calorimetry, an estimate of the efficiency of primary
26 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967

productivity could be obtained. The proposed determinations of
productivity would be rapid and could be applied to streams,
lakes or oceanic situations, a suggestion which should be of
immediate value to the International B-ological Program.

The appearance of Professor Slobodkin and his students
for a week-long visit provided a welcome infusion of vigorous
discussion into the Smithsonian laboratories. As he himself
observed, ‘“The Smithsonian, like almost all institutions con-
cerned with pure research, stands permanently balanced
between emphasis on intellectual quality, intellectual styles
and social demands. With luck these three can be served simul-
taneously. Sufficiently profound intellects create intellectual
currency, both by refusing to become bogged down in trivial
problems, and by refusing to deal with any problems in trivial
ways. At the same time socially significant problems are typically
difficult to solve and therefore constitute interesting challenges
to important intellects.”

This Institution has been remarkably lucky to hold on to a
talented staff. One of the increasingly difficult problems is the
continued falling behind of laboratories, such as those of the
Smithsonian, in the competition with the universities to hold
distinguished intellects. Civil service salaries, while still roughly
equivalent for certain categories of scientists, are woefully
deficient in the area of the social sciences (which includes
anthropology) as well as in the humanities. Government-salaried
employees of the Smithsonian of faculty rank outside the
scientific categories are treated like proverbial stepchildren
under present Government regulations. The universities, in
spite of their own financial difficulties, continue to beckon with
important grants, surrounding facilities, and amenities ranging
from guaranteed tuition support for scholars’ children to the
most extraordinary appeals to personal idiosyncrasies and
desire for academic prestige.

Above all there are the students, for better or worse, a
constant lure and an intellectual stimulus. This Institution
strives constantly to make our laboratories and field stations
available to students at all levels, knowing how crucial such
interactions can be not only for the staff but also for the students
themselves, and our desire is to expose them to the specialties
STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY ai

in science and related scholarly fields uniquely developed in
the Institution. Last year some 86 students were brought to
the Smithsonian for extended periods of research; others visited
in special groups such as the rewarding visit of the Michigan
ecologists. Visiting research appointments were given to 19
distinguished postdoctoral scientists and scholars.

One of the great national resources of the United States is
the National Herbarium, maintained in the Museum of Natural
History. Since the days when it sponsored Asa Gray’s classic
Synoptical Flora of North America, the Smithsonian Institution
has been an important contributor to our knowledge of indige-
nous plants of North America. Now it is joining in a large inter-
national project that will utilize its vast collection of dried
specimens and library sources in a brand new effort to survey the
American flora. When the American Society of Plant Taxono-
mists on August 14, 1966, decided to organize the ‘Flora
North America Project,’ Stanwyn G. Shetler was named
executive secretary, and the Smithsonian Institution agreed
to serve as headquarters for the Secretariat. In his new capacity,
Mr. Shetler has spent considerable time during the year laying
groundwork for the project. In January 1967 the first meeting
of the nine-man editorial committee was held in the department
of botany to establish the framework of the project and to
appraise its financial and manpower requirements. The project,
which is being sponsored and managed by the American
Institute of Biological Sciences, will be a fifteen-year, cooperative
effort by American and Canadian taxonomists to produce a
four-volume manual of the 15-20 thousand native vascular
plants of North America north of Mexico. In addition to the
publication which will result, the project is expected to result
in the training of many new taxonomists and to attract many
potential young students in the field. With the completed
Flora U.S.S.R. for the Soviet Union and the developing Flora
Europeae, which together: will cover all of Eurasia, this new
North American treatise will fill the last gap in our knowledge
of Boreal and Arctic floras of the world.

Another of the great resources of the Natural History Mu-
seum is its historic strength in marine biology collections, both
recent and fossil. A study of the taxonomically difficult and very
28 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967

poorly known coralline red algae in the eastern North Atlantic
has kept Walter H. Adey aboard ship for most of the year. This
is part of a broader study of the systematics and ecology of
these algae in the entire North Atlantic area from the Tropics
to the Arctic. During the past year, Adey has worked in Iceland,
Scandinavia, and the British Isles; he will next proceed south
to the Canary and Cape Verde Islands, and thence westward
to the tropical Caribbean area.

Crustose corallines are the:dominant benthic organisms in
shallow northern waters. In the Tropics, however, they are fre-
quently prime contributors to reef formations. Being calcified,
they are potential fossils, and as such they are potentially im-'
portant time-stratigraphic and paleoecological indicators. In the
130 years since their plant nature was generally understood, the
group has had only two major students—largely because of their
heavy calcification and the difficulty of preparing them for study.

The study includes data from investigations of the anatomy,
cytology, and morphology, with conclusions being drawn on a
population basis. In addition to demonstrating a number of
hitherto unrecognized but important cytological, anatomical,
and morphological characteristics, Adey has been able to obtain
for the first time quantitative ecological data for crustose coral-
lines and to show correlations with physical variables, especially
temperature and substrate. In addition to the materials which
he is obtaining from shipboard, he spent the winter months,
when it was not practical to work at sea, studying type materials
in Scandinavian museums.

The Smithsonian Institution has long been concerned with
the problems of classification and identification of nonhuman
primates. The dramatic and still-increasing use of such animals
in medical research and other scientific studies has exposed
repeatedly the confusion and inadequacy of primate classifica-
tion. In the latter part of 1967 the Smithsonian Institution will
establish a center for the study of primate animals from the view-
point of their morphology, anatomy, genetic constitution, pale-
ontology, and behavior. Professor John R. Napier, from the
University of London, has been invited to participate with the
Institution in organizing such a program, which will benefit
both European and U.S. institutions of higher learning, mu-
STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY 29

seums, primate centers, and biomedical research units generally.
As it is currently planned by Napier and curator Charles O.
Handley of the Smithsonian, the proposed center would include
both research and service functions; for example, a standard
checklist of names and a preliminary guide to the identification
of primates will be prepared as quickly as resources permit. At
the beginning, systematic or taxonomic studies will be con-
cerned with those nonhuman primates of most immediate con-
cern to the various research centers in Europe and in the United
States. In the future, studies will be undertaken of the compara-
tive external structure of these animals, their behavior as it
relates to taxonomic problems, breeding patterns, and such
techniques as may be appropriate from physiology, serology,
and cytology. Ultimately, a descriptive manual of the primates
is ant cipated.

Under the direction of Dr. Handley, two field groups con-
tinued the work of the Smithsonian Venezuelan Project in the
eastern and southern part of that country. They collected
mammals, their ectoparasites, blood sera, and biological and
ecological data. More than twenty scientists in six countries are
participating in this project with the cooperation and support
of several Venezuelan scientific organizations.

Through the generosity of Mr. and Mrs. William S. Cowles,
who contributed their airplane and their time as pilots, it was
possible for Handley to make an aerial ecological survey of
Venezuela. Covering about 10,000 miles from the air, Dr.
Handley studied variations in vegetation and terrain that might
affect the distribution of mammals, as a means of further refine-
ment of the Venezuelan project.

The United States National Museum, beginning in 1964,
has been attempting to pioneer the use of computer techniques
for information retrieval as an aid in handling collections. During
the past year curator James A. Peters has become actively
concerned in the development of computer programs directly
applicable to systematic research in the department of vertebrate
zoology and in the Museum of Natural History generally. Three
teletypes installed in the Museum permit direct access to a com-
mercial computer located outside the Institution. Peters and
others have written programs, permitting rapid calculation of
30 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967

standard statistical values, which have already made it possible
to carry out analyses previously impossible because of the amount
of time required. Peters is also developing a computer-key to
the genera of snakes of Latin America, about 75 percent of which
are already included. Insertion into the computer of basic data
on a new collection results in a print-out of the correct generic
name in less than four seconds by the use of the computer-key.
In at least some areas of biology, keys of this kind may permit
rapid sorting and preliminary identification of collections by
research assistants.

Along the same lines, the Pacific Ocean Biological Survey
Program, in collaboration with the Smithsonian information
systems division, has developed a data-processing program for
the analysis of sea bird observations. The data base now includes
more than 100,000 observations of sea birds in the Pacific, along
with associated oceanographic and meteorological data.

During the past few years the theory of sea-floor spreading
and continental drift has received strong support from oceanic
geophysical evidence, especially from magnetic surveys across
the midocean ridges. This theory, long accepted by Southern
Hemisphere geologists, is becoming for the first time widely
accepted by geologists in the Northern Hemisphere. Samples
collected by William Melson and colleagues at St. Paul’s Rocks
on the mid-Atlantic Ridge have been radiometrically dated by
Stanley Hart at the University of California, La Jolla. The
results indicate that St. Paul’s Rocks is an exposure of an
extremely young intrusion, and since sea-floor spreading entails
constant formation of new oceanic crust along the mid-Atlantic
Ridge, the zone at which rifting and spreading should occur, the
young age of St. Paul’s Rocks is clearly consistent with the theory
of sea-floor spreading and of continental drift. This conclusion
is a part of Melson’s study of the rocks from the mid-Atlantic
Ridge, directed toward tracing the development of the oceanic
crust.

In astrophysics the results of a comprehensive space-age
survey of the world, using artificial satellites as triangulation
points, have been published in a special report by the Smith-
sonian Astrophysical Observatory. The three-volume, 686-page
STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY 31

report, ““The Smithsonian Standard Earth,”* provides one of
the most accurate representations of the earth’s geometrical
figure and gravitational potential ever made. The ten-year
satellite geodesy project is the first to complete a circumferential
measurement of the globe by means of simultaneous observa-
tions of satellites. Intercontinental distances are determined with
an accuracy of better than 50 feet, as compared with previous
errors measured in hundreds of feet. Based on more than 40,000
precise satellite observations made by the Observatory’s net-
work of Baker-Nunn tracking cameras, the research was done
as part of the National Geodetic Satellite Program and was
supported by the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.

The ‘‘Standard Earth”’ will serve as the foundation for all
future geodetic research at the Observatory. Also, it will provide
a basic reference book for scientists engaged in other inter-
national programs of satellite geodesy. The data may be used
for calculation both of distances between points on the surface
of the earth and of irregularities in the earth’s gravitational
field. The geodetic reference points established by the “‘Stand-
ard” also may help investigators studying the history and com-
position of the earth’s interior.

In the 1966 Smithsonian Year there is a brief discussion of the
Institution’s classic and historic interest in its own environment,
the Washington Mall. This year has seen a continuation of the
program of keeping that environment alive and vital. This we
have attempted in the past two years in conjunction with the
Master Plan for the Mall as well as the operations of overall
stewardship being constantly undertaken by the National Park
Service. It is important to recognize that buildings are not simply
entities in themselves, set down haphazard in an alien environ-
ment. Rather, if they develop a strong interplay with the land-
scape, both are benefited, both come alive.

One of the most interesting examples of this principle
occurred over the July Fourth weekend of 1967, when the
Institution—aided by the State Art Councils of Oklahoma,

*Published as Smithsonian Institution Astrophysical Observatory, Research in
Space Science, Special Report 200, edited by Drs. Charles A. Lundquist and
George Veis, 1966.
32 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967

Arkansas, and Virginia; the State of New Mexico; Alaskan
Airlines; the State of North Carolina Travel Council; the
Southern Highland Handicraft Guild; the Navaho Tribal
Council; and the Iowa Tourist Council—held a folk festival
on the Mall adjacent to the Museum of History and Technology.
As Congressman Thomas M. Rees of California said in the Con-
gressional Record (July 20, 1967, H 9160-1), ‘“‘For the first
time, thousands of people, over 430,000, experienced a live
museum which exhibited the art of American folklife and they
loved every toe-tapping minute .... Basket weavers, pottery
makers, woodworkers, carvers, doll makers, needleworkers, tale
tellers, boat builders, and folk singers, dancers, and musicians
from all over the country were brought to remind Americans of
their heritage—still a living part of our nation. In this day of
the frug and jerk Americans need to be shown what their own
culture has produced and continues to produce.”

Within—in the Museum—the tools, the products of craft
work, the musical instruments hang suspended in cases, caught
in beautifully petrified isolation. Without, for the space of a few
hours they came alive in the hands of specialists from all over
America, many of them proponents of a dying or little-known
craft or musical art. In all of this, the great sight was the quiet
and immense satisfaction of the people who came to watch and
listen, sitting around and taking it all in, while their children
romped nearby on the grass. It was a moving spectacle and one
that underscored the principle that a museum, to be a museum
in the best sense of the word, must live and breathe both within
and without.

FoLk FEsTIVAL ON THE MALL: Mrs. Ambrose Roanhorse, Navajo rug weaver,
Window Rock, Arizona; and (below) Mr. Bea Hensley, blacksmith, Spruce
Pine, North Carolina.
Ns

at
FoLk FESTIVAL ON THE MALL:
Mrs. Margaret Coochwytewa
(far left), Hopi basketmaker,
Second Mesa, Arizona; and (be-
low) McGee Brothers, folk mu-
sicians, Nashville, Tennessee.

This page: Mr. Herman Ben-
ton, scoopmaker, Livingston
Manor, New York; Mr. James
Miracle, chairmaker, Middles-
boro, Kentucky; and Mr.
Dewey Harmon, _ whittler,
Boone, North Carolina.
36 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967

GELLAR
SSP PRY Ras

Fok FEsTIVAL ON THE MALL: Freedom Quilting Bee, Tuscaloosa, Alabama;
and (below) Mr. Norman Miller, potter, Sprott, Alabama.

STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY oF

STAFF CHANGES

A number of senior positions throughout the Institution were filled
during the year. Charles L. Clapp was appointed Assistant to the
Secretary for problems concerned with development. He had been
associated with the Institution for five years as the legislative assistant
to Senator Leverett Saltonstall, a former Regent of the Smithsonian.

Carl Fox joined the Institution as Director of the Museum Shops.
During fifteen years as manager of the Brooklyn Museum sales shops,
Mr. Fox became widely respected throughout the museum field for the
excellence of his sales exhibitions. More recently he served as inter-
national art curator for Hallmark, Inc.

The Secretary appointed Abram Lerner to be the first Director of
the Joseph H. Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden. Mr. Lerner
has been the curator of the Hirshhorn collection for ten years and
earlier he was associate director concurrently for two New York City
museums: The American Contemporary Arts Gallery and the Artist’s
Gallery.

Dr. Donald Menzel, retiring Director of the Harvard Observatory,
recently joined the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory as a senior
physicist. —The Observatory gained the services of another senior
physicist, Dr. Winfield W. Salisbury from the Varo Manufacturing
Company, Garland, Texas, who will work on applications of advanced
electronic techniques to astrophysical problems.

Dr. Brian Mason, after serving for twelve years as the chairman of
the department of mineralogy at the American Museum of Natural
History, joined the Museum of Natural History as research curator in
the division of meteorites, in the department of mineral sciences.

James R. Morris came to the Institution with a background in
operatic singing and theatrical production to direct the division of
performing arts. This new unit was formed to assist the existing per-
formance activities of the museums, to develop new performance
programs related to the museum collections and the subjects of scholarly
investigation conducted by the curatorial staff. Outdoor performances
on the Mall will be a special responsibility of this division.

Mrs. Helen L. Hayes has joined the Assistant Secretary (Science) to
serve as his special assistant. Before coming to the Smithsonian, Mrs.
Hayes was Head of the Oceanographic Biological Program in the
Office of Naval Research.

Robert R. Engle came from the District of Columbia government to
aid the Assistant Secretary with engineering and architectural review
of plans for the Institution’s many construction and renovation projects.

After directing the Public Information Office since September 1965,
B. Richard Berg resigned to accept the position of Vice President of
38 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967

Lindenwood College in St. Louis, Missouri. John Whitelaw was granted
a ten-month leave of absence to accept a fellowship for study of Con-
gressional operations awarded by the American Political Science
Association.

During the year several members of the staff were lauded for their
contributions to the Institution. James Bradley received the Excep-
tional Service Award, the highest award bestowed by the Smithsonian.
Special mention was made of his efforts on behalf of the National Air
and Space Museum and the Joseph H. Hirshhorn Museum and Sculp-
ture Garden. Frank A. ‘Taylor was commended for his role as statesman
of the museum world as a result of the enactment of the National
Museum Act by which Congress has recognized the cultural and educa-
tional importance of museums.

Also deserving of special recognition are Charles Blitzer, for his
direction of the experimental neighborhood museum, and William W.
Warner, for his skillful negotiation of international research agreements
in the Smithsonian Foreign Currency Program.

Three members of the staff who left the Institution for professional
advancement last year should be mentioned. Dr. William L. Stern,
chairman of the department of botany, has accepted an appointment
to the department of botany, University of Maryland. Peter Morse,
acting curator in the division of graphic arts, has joined the Honolulu
Academy of Fine Arts. In September 1966, G. Carroll Lindsay left the
Institution after serving for four years as the Director of Museum
Services and more recently as Executive Secretary of the Smithsonian
Associates. He has become the Director of Museum Services for the
New York State Museum.

Through retirement our professional staff has lost the valued services
of Henry B. Collins, archeologist in the division of cultural anthro-
pology; Paul S. Conger, associate curator, division of cryptogams,
department of botany; and Richard Ettinghausen, head curator of
Near Eastern art at the Freer Gallery of Art, who has joined the staff
of the Institute of Fine Arts at New York University.

SMITHSONIAN MEDALS

The Smithsonian’s Hodgkins Medal was awarded twice in 1967: on
February 15 to J. Grahame Clark, Disney Professor of Archeology in
the University of Cambridge; and on April 26 to Fritz W. Went,
Professor of Botany at the University of Nevada Desert Research
Institute.

Professor Clark, who received the award ‘‘for outstanding contribu-
tions to the knowledge of the physical environment bearing upon the
welfare of man,” was cited as one—
STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY 39

Whose archeological studies of settlement and land use in Western Europe
have illuminated the cultural influences of biological and physical factors
in man’s environment;

Whose insights into the mute objects of prehistory have extended to the
entire phenomenon of man; and

Whose teaching and research have contributed to maintaining the unity
of anthropology in all its aspects.

Professor Went was cited as a scientist—

Whose discovery of the photochemical transformation of plant volatiles
led to an understanding of the phenomenon of blue haze, a form of
atmospheric pollution observable in nature as well as in the landscapes
of Leonardo da Vinci;

Whose perfection of the phytotron for precise control of experimental
environments increased our understanding of daily and seasonal rhythms
in the life of plants;

Whose research on growth substances contributed to the earliest knowledge
of hormonal control of plant growth in relation to environmental vari-
ables; and

Whose enthusiasm and example have inspired generations of students and
scientists of the environmental physiology and ecology of plants.

The Smithsonian’s Langley Medal was awarded on June 6, 1967, to
Wernher von Braun, Director of the George C. Marshall Space Flight
Center, National Aeronautics and Space Administration: “In recog-
nition of his creative vision of the practical application of rocket power
to space flight leading to the first U.S. satellite, and of his technical
leadership in development of the Saturn class of large launch vehicles
upon which the Apollo moon flight is based.”

THE BOARD OF REGENTS

The membership of the Board of Regents was changed upon the
retirement of Senator Leverett Saltonstall in December 1966. The
Board at the May 1966 meeting recorded its gratitude to Senator
Saltonstall for his distinguished service as a Regent from January 1949
to December 1966. The Members of the Board expressed their admira-
tion for his dedication to the Nation through his many years of public
service.

Senator Hugh Scott of Pennsylvania was appointed as a Member
of the Board of Regents on January 12, 1967. Senator Scott is a recog-
nized expert on Chinese art and is a member of the Oriental Art
Committee of the Philadelphia Museum of Art.

The present membership of the Board is given on page iii.

The annual meeting of the Board of Regents was held in the Presi-
dential Room of the Museum of History and Technology on January
25, 1967. After the meeting the Regents dined in the newly com-
SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967

40

98¢ ‘ZIE ‘EI

€ZS ‘bOI
86L ‘OF ‘I
820 ‘6LS¢ ‘I
L9G ‘E#0 ‘T
L61 ‘LLb
L¥6 ‘OSt

188 ‘66
690 ‘OIL
GSE “6IL
$F ‘O9L
86 ‘COI Z
GIF ‘S16 ‘T
1210 [,

ZOI ‘OFS ‘G

¢9¢ ‘989
L19 ‘909
ITT ‘102
86 ‘86E
C8I ‘F6I
09F ‘ELI

869 ‘CLI
808 “C6z
ohh HES
8E6 ‘6S
G28 ‘CL8
CHS “ESL
Adojouy Ia
pup «410jsiey
fo wnasnpy

026 ‘ZI1z

98 ‘6I
C00 ‘02
Sr6 ‘61
62S ‘8I
692 ‘8
268 6

886 ‘Z
IGP ‘SI
LoL ‘ZI
968 ‘9I
60 ‘9
C9E ‘6%
m4 fo
A4d7]D) AIPA

BOF ‘HBP ‘T

€92 ‘GLI
C98 ‘HHI
G29 ‘EST
60S ‘8II
SG ‘Lh
OLZ ‘6E

6L ‘ZE
8£0 “99
£68 ‘99
912 ‘88
ELS ‘86
628 ‘ZSZ
duping
aa0dy

pup 1p

LS6 “604 ‘€

€€0 ‘OLF
GOP ‘OFF
861 ‘or
109 LZ
Lol ‘821
2L6 ‘LZI

08s ‘80I
029 ‘O6I
062 ‘L9I
€6E ‘SCT
9Cr ‘99F
C82 ‘bor
ALOISUFT
[DANIO NG
fo wnasnpy

€L8 ‘8E9 ‘I

1S8 ‘E61
Eb9 “CCT
CEE ‘OLI
186 ‘ZHI
6EF ‘09
166 ‘LP

066 ‘IF
661 ‘C8
606 ‘08
S91 ‘€6
1% ‘EOE
L¥S ‘LS

suipjing
Savajsnpuy
puv splp

L961 ‘O§ ANAf—9961 ‘Tf ATOL’
£4961 UVAA TVOSIA ONTUNA SUOLISIA AO GUOODAY

218 ‘610 ‘I

GL9 ‘86
992 ‘68
998 ‘SOI
649 ‘16
G29 ‘BE
Gor ‘BE

9£6 SE
686 ‘8S
19% ‘LG
88Z “9G
F6L ‘GBI
1F8 ‘COT
ouipping

uDlUuOsYpIUS

[e101

oun{”
ACW
Tudy
yore yy
Areniqo jy
Axenue {

L961
Jaquis.0q,
JOQUIDAON,
19q0199
Jaquiajidag
ysnsny
Aint

996L
STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY 41

pleted hall of the series depicting the growth of the United States.
Curator of political history Keith E. Melder spoke on the American
Revolution Bicentennial Commission and Director Robert P. Multhauf
of the Museum of History and Technology spoke on the new hall.

The spring meeting of the Board of Regents was held on May 24,
1967, in the Regents’ Room of the original Smithsonian Institution
Building. At the conclusion of the meeting an informal dinner was held
in the Great Hall.

FINANCES

Federal funds appropriated to the Institution for its regular opera-
tions for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1967, totaled $22,730,000 and
were obligated as follows (Appendix | contains a report on the private
funds of the Institution) :

Astrophysical Observatory $1,638,000
Education and Training 342,000
Freer Gallery of Art 34,000
International Activities 60,000
International Exchange Service 128,000
‘National Air and Space Museum 454,000
National Armed Forces Museum Advisory Board 125,000
National Collection of Fine Arts 677,000
National Portrait Gallery 449,000
Office of Ecology 118,000
Office of Oceanography and Limnology 268,000
Radiation Biology Laboratory 394,000
Tropical Research Institute 304,000
United States National Museum 7,504,000
Research Awards 400,000
Office of the Secretary 369,000
Management Support 432,000
Buildings Management Department 6,648,000
Administrative Services 2,344,000
Unobligated 42,000
VISITORS

Visitors to the six buildings comprising the Smithsonian complex
on the Mall this year totaled 13,312,586, of whom 4,079,450 came in
July and August. The greatest number of visitors for a single day was
98,847 on April 1, 1966. The tabulation on page 40 gives a summary
of attendance records for the six buildings. The National Zoological
Park had an estimated 4,937,615 visitors during the year. This figure,
added to the attendance in the Institution’s buildings on the Mall,
and to the record 1,510,967 at the National Gallery of Art, brings the
total Smithsonian attendance for fiscal 1967 to 19,761,168.
42 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967

PUBLICATIONS AND ADDRESSES

The scientific papers of the secretary are listed on pages 51 (ecology)
and 152 (ornithology). The following addresses and statements were
made by him:

Remarks on the occasion of receiving the Management Achievement
Award from the Washington, D.C., Chapter of the Society for the
Advancement of Management, June 9, 1966.

Our people and their cities. Urban America Conference, September
Ll 1966:

The research administrator: An intellectual barometer of our
changing science. U.S. Civil Service Commission Seminar for
Executives in Science Programs, September 19, 1966.

Address to the Foreign Service Institute, October 5, 1966.

Address to the Smithsonian Conference on Tropical Biology, November
10, 1966, Panama City, Republic of Panama.

The complexity of the environment. Smithsonian Symposium on
The Quality of Man’s Environment. February 18, 1967.

Publications and speeches by members of the Secretary’s staff in-
cluded the following:

RiTTERBUSH, P. C. Institutions of science. Address, Science Policy
Research Programme, Lund University, Lund, Sweden, September
17, 1966.

. Biology and the Smithsonian Institution. BioScience, vol. 17,
now |, pp:25=35;, 1967.

——. Will science survive domestication? Scientific Research,
vol. 2, no. 6, pp. 79-77, 1967:

Schéume sind Traume: Otto Biitschli and the foam model

for protoplasmic structure. Third Atlantic Seminar in the History

of Biology, Johns Hopkins University, April 1, 1967.

Smithsonian Activities

Natural Sciences
ha rt
“i.
Th
» e®@ ¥

suriicvean, YEAR, lm

J ad) ATH ty ay Valet AIT S >

5

shifha s2 (Pf a Cue AE! G60 HPA al Mii \
ied ef inion Meiers ome
a ' o4* iter (ie * tam, *
. ss 2 134 J a0 y
a nikcadthy, Tetra
=) a Laat PAW PeTEO es
1G
bat hy 5 fe Lot te me 8 | a
4 1 Sauer eee
= es Pee) = - a | :
wr
ite one
sabia stetnbopist io
{ ; ( is
AN (vita — bhi 7 ™ :
Ker - Nee ob A ‘
> . ; 7 a . . 7 iiss *
' ey Rote, LEI Wie cpa

ogres
oy : ih,
bang jy: [ithe tovgeeies

tavtiio iii”

“aa foie chia fiiiee > jae ita el
I bet? AU MRD ~ es ee
ut L rey nf 42% "Tea ® ‘Site
Smithsonian Office of Ecology

Hewvmut K. BuECHNER, Head

Sheva IS BEING JOLTED into a sharp awareness of its environment.
We are concerned over the polluted air we breathe. We are con-
cerned over the physiological effects of biocides in the food we eat
and the accumulation of strontium-90 in our bones. We are concerned
over the mental stresses that develop from living in overcrowded and
deteriorating cities. As a result, we are entering a new era, scarcely
imagined 25 years ago, in which society is facing the urgent need to
adjust patterns of human culture to the physical and biological limita-
tions of the earth’s ecological systems.

For the average citizen, ecology is fast becoming a household word,
as increasingly it is being demonstrated to him that man is in nature
and is a part of nature. No longer can he regard himself simply as a

Ecotocy: from the Greek oikos, abode, dwelling; the study of inter-
relationships among living organisms (as individuals, populations, and
communities) and their environments.

separate creation divinely appointed to manipulate nature at will.
He now begins to understand that a human society with its total
environment functions as an integrated whole in nature—that is, as
an ecological system, or ecosystem.

He sees, moreover, that with his modern technology man is capable
of massive environmental manipulations that were unimagined even a
few years ago; and because he is told that such changes are usually
irreversible and can adversely affect the lives of future generations
as well as his own, he now senses the importance of seeking scientifically
valid means of predicting the consequences of any alteration in the
ecosystems of the world.

He begins to recognize, in short, that he must increase his scientific
understanding of whole ecosystems, taking man as an essential com-
ponent, if he is to establish a viable basis for the cultural and intellectual
development of human society. Leading humanists, scientists, and

45
46 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967

Congressmen have for some time been keenly aware of this and of
the adverse ecological changes occurring throughout the world today,
and they express mounting concern lest the quality of human life
deteriorate to an unbearable degree through improper management
of the environmental systems which sustain it.

We openly admit that between man and his total environment
unstable relationships have formed, and that under the twin pressures
of an expanding economy and of excessive self-constricting population
growth, competition for the finite resources of the earth almost in-
evitable results in their misuse.

Having accepted the fact that human society is an integral part of
the earth’s ecosystems and that the resources of its environments are
limited, what then must we do? If the critical problem facing humanity
today is the ecological one of harmoniously relating human societies
to sensitive environments of finite scope and potential, we are forced
to conclude that the growth of human society must henceforth be
measured mainly in terms of quality rather than of quantity. The
problem, in its most restricted form, lies within the domain of the
natural sciences. Indeed, from one point of view, we can regard
ecology as the most recent scientific outgrowth of natural history.
But in its most general form the problem involves all the dynamics
of man-in-society. Here it is that ecological principles are confronted
with those of economics, political theory, law, and education—indeed,
with all the institutions and organized structures of knowledge that
deal significantly with the social reality. Clearly, the problem is too
intricate and too important for the ecologist alone to solve.

Putting in perspective the present destructive influences of man
on his environment, and ultimately on his own society, requires a new
approach involving a synthesis of relevant knowledge from the humani-
ties and behavioral sciences as well as from the natural sciences.
Eminent contemporary intellectuals have already pointed out that
we need a new science, ecologically oriented but not ecology in its
traditional sense. The subject matter of the new science is human
society and its total environment. If we think in terms of levels of
biological integration—the molecular, cellular, organismal, popula-
tion, community, and community-plus-environment levels—then we
must regard the highest and most complex level as that dealing with
the human dimension, where human society and its containing en-
vironment exist as a functioning whole in nature. We have seen that
in molecular biology, near the bottom of the spectrum, spectacular
advances in our understanding of the genetic code have resulted from
the integration of ideas found in chemistry, physics, mathematics,
OFFICE OF ECOLOGY 47

and biology. Can we expect anything less exciting and significant to
grow out of our concentration upon the highest levels of organization,
at the other end of the spectrum, where the penalty of ignorance may
well be irreversible and devastating change?

The challenge is enormous and the difficulties immense. In view
of the complexity that presents itself, even at the lower levels of
biological integration, the task of building a conceptual structure that
would enable us to deal effectively with the upper regions of the
spectrum, and with the spectrum in its entirety, seems almost over-
whelming. Some have remarked that the highest ecosystem level
is not only more complex than we think it is, it is more complex than
we can think.

Yet the problem is often one of perspective; and if we are to face
our work squarely, we must make every effort to rid ourselves of that
form of cultural nearsightedness which obscures the total design of
the canvas even while it brings the details into focus. For example, the
cycling of radioactive particles or pesticides through plants and
animals into man—who released these destructive contaminants in
the first place—is an ecosystem phenomenon, the attributes of which
involve decisions in the minds of men as well as the physical movement
of these substances through the air, water, soil, and living organisms.
Thus, recognizing that human values and the motivating forces of
economics and politics can contribute directly to the structural and
functional characteristics of ecosystems in which man is the dominant
force, it is clear that one must direct thought and research toward
searching out the unique and possibly controlling phenomena—in
this case, man’s cultural behavior—that operate at whatever level
in nature is under study.

Within this broad context of the search for solutions to contemporary
ecological problems relevant to or embracing modern society, the
Smithsonian program in ecology is evolving. Its primary goal is to
advance basic ecological theory at all levels of biological integration,
but its emphasis is upon the largely unexplored higher levels—on
such areas as populations and communities of animals, on vegetation
as a structure or pattern of plant communities, and on communities-
plus-environments as total ecosystems. It seeks particularly to study
ecosystems that are least modified by man. These are natural com-
plexes and are self-maintaining when human interference does not
intrude upon the regulatory processes enough to cause the system to
deteriorate; they can therefore provide the means ‘to understand and
measure the effects of such interference. This type of undisturbed area
is becoming increasingly rare in our day and, without protection from
man’s activities, it will soon disappear.
48 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967

The Smithsonian program of ecology also, therefore, encourages
and practices conservation, which has two aspects—the aesthetic
and the scientific. With the aesthetic aspect all are familiar—so
familiar, in fact, that the arguments in favor of preserving unmolested
the beauty of the land elicit something like a conditioned reflex, and
we dutifully nod our approval.

But with the other aspect—the scientific values of conservation—
we are much less familiar. From a scientific point of view, conservation
means preserving the capacity of ecosystems to support rich and
varied forms of life. This is a matter of biological necessity if we are
to maintain a diversity of environments in which it is not only possible
to live but also in which it is worth living. The natural area, so-called
because the works of man are not significant elements in its composition,
is an outdoor laboratory and, as such, it is the only apparatus by which
we can gauge the changes that occur in the regions dominated and
modified by man. These reserves are the only frame of reference we
have. In them we can make observations with a minimum of dis-
turbance, or carry out controlled and carefully recorded environmental
manipulations ‘to determine how ecosystems actually function in
nature. This sort of research contributes to our ability to predict
the consequences of man’s alteration of his environment. |

The Smithsonian Institution encourages, and aids where possible,
the establishment of natural areas for research, education, and as a
means of communicating ecological ideas to society. The Chesapeake
Bay Center for Field Biology, under the administration of the Office
of Ecology, reflects this interest and activity. Such areas must be
under the best protection that society can provide through its laws
and institutions; and the 120 years of Smithsonian tradition in pre-
serving objects of cultural and scientific importance provides assurance
that natural areas, which might be thought of as outdoor museums,
will be saved in perpetuity for science and society.

While emphasis is placed on the higher orders of biological integra-
tion and on the conservation and study of natural ecosystems generally,
the Smithsonian ecology program also includes _species-oriented
ecology, and the biological problems related to urban development
are not excluded. And although research is given priority, the ecology
program is also deeply committed to education and to the diffusion
of sound ecological information throughout society. In this sphere its
efforts are directed toward constructing a conceptual framework,
drawing upon the humanities, the behavioral sciences and the natural
sciences, that will enable man to deal purposively with his world on
the level of human-society-plus-its-total-environment. To gather these
strands together, research is being linked with university education at
OFFICE OF ECOLOGY 49

home and abroad, and contemporary ecological thought is being
transmitted through lectures, seminars, and publications.

If we accept the thesis that advancement of scientific theory about
ecosystems and man’s place in these systems is oriented primarily
around the understanding of how they actually behave in nature, then
with sufficient knowledge about how ecosystems work, we may be able
to manage them in the best interests of society by manipulating the
controlling (or regulatory) processes. Increasing our understanding
of how an ecosystem works requires two general types of research.

One type of research is concerned with basic descriptions (1) of the
physical, chemical, and biotic components of the system; (2) of the
structural and functional relationships of these components to each
other and to the system as a whole; (3) of the variations of the system
in time and space; and (4) of the environmental relationships of the
system to other ecological systems. The total systems approach, embrac-
ing climate, soils, hydrology, vegetation, and animal life (including
man), provides a foundation for studies of regulatory processes. These
basic descriptions require a solid foundation in the taxonomy of the
species components: precise identification of plants, animals, and other
organisms is fundamental to the advancement of ecological theory.
Basic descriptions also include preliminary interpretations. These
concern, for example, the ecological interrelationships of the compo-
nent populations, the cause and effect of changes in vegetation and
its associated animal life through time, or the influence of upwelling
ocean currents on the productivity of marine life—and in turn they
often generate ideas for further studies on the functions and processes
of ecosystems.

As was pointed out earlier, ecology is sometimes said to be the
scientific outgrowth of natural history. In the ecology program of the
Smithsonian a strong foundation for research concerned with basic
descriptions is provided by the vast collections and the enormous bank
of taxonomic knowledge in its Museum of Natural History, a bank
to which the Smithsonian has contributed for over 100 years through
its expeditions into the virgin areas of the Western States, the Arctic
regions, the Tropics, and elsewhere throughout the world.

The massive task of curating the collections from these expeditions
leads naturally into systematic and evolutionary biology, and as a
consequence, taxonomists have often become so specialized in the
systematics and biogeography of their own particular group of orga-
nisms that they have had little time or inclination to explore the signifi-
cance of ecological studies. Ecologists, on the other hand, have often
tended to underestimate the importance of these basic descriptions
and the significance of systematic biology and ecology at the species
50 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967

level. A related objective of the Smithsonian ecology program, there-
fore, is to bridge the gap that has developed between systematists
and ecologists and to renew the close relationships that formerly
existed between these two disciplines. Obviously, such interdisciplinary
integration is essential if we are to increase our knowledge of how
ecological systems work in nature.

The second type of research required to increase understanding of
how ecosystems work is concerned with interpretive, ecosystem-
oriented studies rather than basic descriptions. Examples of such
studies would be (1) the role of social behavior, or the significance of
predator-prey relationships in the numerical regulation of animal
populations; (2) the principles of vegetation change; (3) the flow of
energy through the system as expressed in rates and amounts of primary
and secondary productivity; (4) the cycling of mineral nutrients; or
(5) the consequences of man’s environmental manipulations. These
examples point the direction in which the new quantitative ecology
is developing. These are the studies at the higher levels of biological
integration, although usually below the level of human-society-plus-
environment, that excite ecologists intellectually, even though they
are often without direct consequence to society.

To sum up: the Smithsonian program in ecological research embraces
both basic descriptions and ecosystem-oriented studies. It emphasizes
studies of significance to both ecological theory and to the under-
standing of man’s place in nature. Its aim is to form a small group of
scholars, each of whom will advance knowledge significantly in his
own specialty—be it vegetation science, animal behavior, the dy-
namics of animal populations, or the energetics of ecosystems—and
who will also help construct a new interdisciplinary framework that
will enable us to assemble a broad spectrum of knowledge relevant
to the current ecological problems of our society. By this means,
it is hoped, a viable scientific basis can be established for maintaining
and improving the quality of man’s environment.

In this challenging new era of multiple, competing demands and
shifting perspectives, the Smithsonian Institution, as a privately
endowed organization with strong governmental relationships, serves
as an important focal point for both national and international
programs in basic research and education in ecosystem-oriented
ecology.

Further ideas and additional information on the evolving program
in ecology at the Smithsonian Institution may be found in the following
OFFICE OF ECOLOGY 51

articles, some of which were in press as this report was written. (Re-
prints are available through the Smithsonian Office of Ecology.)

BUECHNER, HeEtMuT K., and Fosserc, F. RAymMonp. A contribution toward a
world program in tropical biology. BioScience (August 1967), vol. 17, no. 8,
pp. 532-538. There is an urgent need to study the energy-rich tropical
ecosystems, both to evolve new ecological theory and to provide the founda-
tion of knowledge required for sound management of the Tropics in man’s
best interest. This article is a report on a Conference on ‘Tropical Biology
held in Panama in November 1966.

Riptey, S. Ditton. A perspective of the Smithsonian program in ecology:
National Parks Magazine (October 1966), vol. 40, no. 229, pp. 10-13.
This is the first published statement on the Smithsonian program in ecology.

———. The future of environmental improvement. /n Environmental improve-
ment (air, water, and soil), pp. 85-93. Washington: The Graduate School,
U.S. Department of Agriculture, 1966. The holistic concept of the ecosystem
as an open-energy system, with human society as an integral component is
examined in this article, along with other fundamental ideas relevant in
this emerging era of environmental awareness.

. The challenge of adapting human societies to arid environments-
In Arid and semi-arid lands—a preview: A symposium held in conjunction
with the inauguration of President Grover Murray as eighth president of
Texas Technological College, October 31-November 1, 1966, pp. 23-31.
Lubbock, Texas: International Center for Arid and Semi-Arid Land Studies,
publ. 1, 1967. In a context that views man, fire, and grasslands as evolving
together, thoughts are focused on man’s expansion of deserts through over-
grazing, on the ecological problems of irrigation, and on programs of inter-
national education and research.

. Perspectives in tropical biology. BioScience (August 1967), vol. 17,
no. 8, pp. 538-540. The compelling scientific reasons and the social re-
sponsibilities for studying tropical biology are presented.

Riptey, S. Ditton, and BuEcHNER, Hetmur K. Ecosystem science as a point
of synthesis. Daedalus (fall 1967), vol. 96, no. 4, pp. 1192-1199, 1967.
Ecosystem science is defined in terms of levels of biological integration and
points of view, and the ecological viewpoint is suggested as an integrative
theme for a new orientation of knowledge in the context of contemporary
world problems.

INTERNATIONAL PROGRAM IN ECOLOGY

Surveys of opportunities for ecological research have been initiated
in countries where Public Law 480 funds are available. The objective
is to make initial contacts with scientists, with university and govern-
ment officials, and with other relevant persons in the country to
5D SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967

explain the Smithsonian program, obtain cooperation, and determine
their interests in ecosystem-oriented ecology. Opportunities are
sought for research in basic principles and concepts concerning the
dynamics of animal populations, vegetation change, primary and
secondary productivity, the cycling of nutrients, demography, numeri-
cal regulation of populations with emphasis on social behavior, and
ecological anthropology.

Although emphasis is placed on ecosystem-oriented research,
species-oriented ecology and environmental physiology are also
included, and insofar as possible all research is in meaningful context
to society. Through these preliminary surveys, programs of interrelated
projects within and between countries can be developed. With this
information at hand, scientists in U.S. institutions, including the
Smithsonian, whose research interests echo the opportunities in the
foreign countries, are sought out to develop specific research projects.

Under the program of surveys of opportunities, Jagmohan Sing
Maini, of the Canada Department of Forestry, visited his native India
for six weeks in April and May; professor George A. Petrides of
Michigan State University extended his attendance at the Interna-
tional Conference on Tropical Ecology in New Delhi for preliminary
talks with Indian scientists; and Kai Curry-Lindahl of the zoology
department, Nordiska Museet and Skansen, Stockholm, Sweden, and
Walter Leuthold, Zoological Institut, University of Zurich, Switzer-
land, completed a survey during May and June in the Republic of
the Congo (Kinshasa). Ecological research in the Congolese National
Parks and equivalent reserves is of special high priority. Charles H.
Wurster, Department of Biological Sciences, State University of
New York, Stony Brook, Long Island; George M. Woodwell, Brook-
haven National Laboratory, Long Island, New York; and George E.
Watson visited Israel in early April to initiate arrangements for
studies of the effects of pesticides on bird populations, with special
attention to the movements of pesticides through selected arid and
irrigated ecosystems in Israel.

Preparations were completed for Robert L. Fleming, a postdoctoral
student from Michigan State University, and Robert H. Horwich, a
postdoctoral student from the University of Maryland, to spend one
year in India as consultants to the Smithsonian Office of Ecology,
during which time they will initiate long-term research in avian migra-
tion and mammalian behavior. These studies are related to the interests
of Smithsonian scientists.

In Ceylon a three-year research project on the behavior and ecology
of elephants has been initiated by John F. Eisenberg, resident scientist
OFFICE OF ECOLOGY 53

at the National Zoological Park, and Helmut K. Buechner, using
Public Law 480 funds. This research is directed primarily toward basic
principles in ethology, but it will also provide the scientific foundation
for conservation practices that are compatible with the development
of forestry and agricultural resources. A grant from the World Wildlife
Fund provides for salaries and equipment not covered by Ceylonese
currency, and a gift of two Land-Rovers by the Fauna Preservation
Society of London solved the problem of transport. Field work was
initiated in late January 1967 by Eisenberg and his predoctoral student
George M. McKay, of the University of Maryland. Fred Kurt, a
postdoctoral student from the University of Zurich, joined the project
in March.

A two-year research project on systematic botany, palynology, and
vegetation was also initiated in Ceylon in January by F. Raymond
Fosberg, special advisor on tropical biology. Field work is under way
by Dieter Mueller-Dombois, a vegetation scientist from the University
of Hawaii, and Peter Comanor, a postdoctoral student of palynology
from Rutgers University, on a project complementary to that of the
study of elephants, in that it provides a basis for studies of food habits
and vegetational relationships of the elephant.

An effort is being made to involve Ceylonese students in these studies.
Excellent relationships have been established with the faculty at the
University of Ceylon, with relevant Government agencies (wildlife and
forestry), and with the Wildlife Protection Society of Ceylon.

The studies in Ceylon are now being expanded by Eisenberg and
research associate Suzanne Ripley of the National Zoological Park to
include a comprehensive study of the biology of primates, with emphasis
on behavior, and a study of the behavioral relationships of man to
elephants. The latter study by Ripley, an anthropologist, is likely
to be as significant in the conservation of elephants as the studies of
their behavior and ecology.

In Brazil, where there are no Public Law 480 funds, ecologically
oriented, interdisciplinary investigations of the Amazonian biota are
evolving rapidly under a cooperative program between the Smithsonian
Institution and the Instituto de Pesquisas e Experimentagdo Agropecu-
arias do Norte (IPEAN) at Belém, Brazil, under the guidance of
Philip S. Humphrey, chairman of the department of vertebrate zoology.
This program was initiated by funds from the Office of Ecology, which
continues to provide financial support.

In Africa the Smithsonian Office of Ecology provides partial support
for an ecologically oriented taxonomic survey of mammals being con-
ducted under the direction of Henry W. Setzer, associate curator of
mammals.
Vegetation on eroded hills (above) surrounding a Korean village in the DMZ
Study Area recovers remarkably after being protected from fuel-gathering for

14 years. Normally 60 percent of the rainfall in Korea occurs during the
growing season, favoring rapid recovery of vegetation on watersheds.

OFFICE OF ECOLOGY 5

Buechner, continuing his investigations on the territorial behavior,
reproduction, and ecology of the Uganda kob, one of the African
antelopes, has in preparation a major manuscript summarizing the
results of earlier work. His paper, “‘A Preliminary Estimation of Energy
Flow in Uganda Kob,” prepared jointly with Frank B. Golley of
the University of Georgia, was presented at a conference of the
International Biological Program in Warsaw, in late Summer 1966.

In Korea, under a contract with the U.S. Air Force Office of Scien-
tific Research, a long-range program of research has been initiated,
using as an ecological baseline a study area immediately south of the
demilitarized zone. This area has been rigidly protected over the past
14 years, and provides a key to understanding man’s impact on Korean
environments. Following a visit to the DMZ study area by Buechner,
Talbot, Fosberg, Smithsonian field representative Edwin L. Tyson,
and Harold J. Coolidge of the Pacific Science Board, National Academy
of Sciences, Tyson began working with scientists at various universities
in Korea to prepare a five-year plan of research for presentation to
granting agencies.

Curator of insects Ke Chung Kim, of the University of Minnesota,
spent January 1967 in Korea as a consultant for the Smithsonian Office
of Ecology to assist with the development of the five-year plan. Tyson
and Kim were able to draw together 55 project proposals that will
form the basis for a unified program of research in the study area.
This is the beginning of a 25-year program in ecosystem-oriented
ecology, the objective of which is to acquire knowledge about environ-
mental relationships of living organisms, including man, as a basis for
achieving stable relationships between human societies and_ the
natural resources of Korea. By providing the basic scientific informa-
tion required to assist Korea in its efforts to become self-sufficient, the
program has relevance to the preservation of our own natural resources
here in the United States.

In other countries, opportunities to conduct short-term research
or planning studies for long-range investigations in environmental
physiology and ecosystem ecology are provided under a contract with
the U.S. Air Force Office of Scientific Research.

Thus there begins to emerge at the Smithsonian Institution an inter-
national program in ecological research in which ecologists in the United
States can collaborate with scientists abroad to develop ecological
theory, to foster graduate studies, and to help construct a scientific
foundation for the harmonious adjustment of human societies to the
environments of which they are integral parts.
56 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967

CHESAPEAKE BAY CENTER FOR FIELD BIOLOGY

The Johns Hopkins University and the University of Maryland
have joined the Smithsonian Institution in establishing the Chesapeake
Bay Center for Field Biology (CBCFB) for ecological research and
the education of graduate students. This cooperative arrangement
increases the effectiveness of an interdisciplinary research program
by enlarging the pool of scientific talent. It is an open-ended con-
sortium that may be joined by other universities as the program
evolves.

The Center is located about 7 miles south of Annapolis, Maryland,
on the western shore of the Bay. Under Smithsonian ownership, it
consists of about 700 acres of land, including over 10 miles of un-
developed shoreline, that are preserved effectively for a program of
studies extending indefinitely into the future. The abandonment of
about half the area from agriculture more than two decades ago
provides unusual opportunities to study changes in vegetation and
associated animal life. With its relatively undisturbed areas of mature
forest, salt marshes, eroding bluffs, sandy beaches, and shallow
estuaries, the CBCFB constitutes an ecological baseline against which
to compare other systems in this rapidly changing region, and offers
a variety of opportunities for long-term ecological studies. The research
information produced can be applied in the development of both
environmental standards and the construction of models for deter-
mining the effects of man’s accidental or premeditated environmental
manipulations in the vicinity of Washington.

Populations of Foraminifera are being studied at the Center and
elsewhere in Chesapeake Bay by Martin A. Buzas, associate curator
of invertebrate paleontology. The purpose of these studies is to under-
stand the factors influencing distribution, numbers, and the structure
of recent populations of Foraminifera as a basis for interpreting the
characteristics of fossil populations and reconstructing their environ-
ments. The systematics of estuarine mollusks are being studied by
Joseph B. Morrison, associate curator of mollusks. Other marine
invertebrates collected with the mollusks are being preserved for
other research workers. The effects of wintering waterfowl on mollusks
and other bottom organisms of estuaries are being studied by Kyle R.
Barbehenn, Director of the CBCFB. His principle study at the Center
concerns the concepts of stability of populations and intercommunity
interactions between the small mammals of a salt marsh and the
adjoining forest. The social organization of the forest community of
small mammals is apparently more integrated than that of the marsh
community, and therefore more resistant to invasion and more
OFFICE OF ECOLOGY 57

moderate in annual fluctuation of numbers as compared to the
mammalian community of the marsh. The marsh community of small
mammals seems to be more strongly influenced by severe weather,
while the numerical regulation of the forest community depends
more on intrinsic behavioral mechanisms.

George E. Watson, curator of birds, with the assistance of Jan Reese
is conducting studies on the dynamics of populations of ospreys and
great blue herons on Poplar Island. The determination of recruitment
rate and mean annual adult mortality rate of these populations is
particularly significant since these predators concentrate quantities of
insecticides large enough to influence reproduction and mortality.
Both birds are keys to evaluating the influence of man’s activities in
contaminating ecological systems with insecticides.

Sedimentation, with emphasis on the estuaries, is being studied by
Jack W. Pierce, curator of sedimentology, using remote-sensing
techniques from aircraft and satellites as well as conventional methods.

The archeology of the Center and vicinity is being studied by
Henry T. Wright, of the University of Michigan Museum of Anthro-
pology, under the direction of Smithsonian curator of anthropology
Clifford Evans. After a survey of sites, limited explorations will be
made to determine the activities of early man in the region.

The effects of the considerable increase in numbers of whistling swans
on Chesapeake Bay are being studied by William J. L. Sladen of Johns
Hopkins University. Apparently these swans feed extensively on soft-
shelled clams and submerged aquatic plants. Movements of these
swans within the Bay area and during their migrations back to the
Arctic breeding grounds are being traced by means of color-marking
with dyes, and it is hoped that biotelemetric techniques can be em-
ployed. Studies of the estuarine ecology, including the distribution of
submerged aquatic vegetation, water quality with respect to tempera-
ture, salinity, dissolved oxygen and carbon dioxide, and mineral
nutrients, are being conducted by Charles H. Southwick and his
students from Johns Hopkins University. The frequent luxuriant growth
of milfoil and its sudden, unexplained disappearance is of particular
interest and significance. The estuaries at the Center are being com-
pared with other estuaries in Chesapeake Bay, especially those of Back
and Middle Rivers near Baltimore, each of which seems to have its
own particular character.

Investigations being conducted by the faculty at the University of
Maryland include Jack P. Hailman’s investigations of the causes and
mechanisms of change in bird populations in correlation with vegeta-
tional change. Epidemiological studies of free-ranging and confined
:
;

The Chesapeake Bay Center for Field Biology provides the only natural area
on the western shore of Chesapeake Bay against which to measure man’s
influences on the estuaries and adjacent lands of the Bay region.

The water’s edge around Fox Point (opposite and below) frequently includes
salt marsh. From Locust Point (above) the Chesapeake Bay can be seen
across the Rhode River.

é

st
es.
—_—
Tae ; S

- at BS

60 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967

populations of rodents and investigations of the parasites of catbirds
are being conducted by Leo A. Jachowski, Jr. A survey of the insect
fauna and studies on specific groups of insects are being conducted by
Donald H. Messersmith and William E. Bickly. The behavior, and
the underlying neurophysiological mechanisms thereof, of the turkey
are being studied by Wolfgang M. Schleidt to clarify hypotheses on
the innate behavior of birds. A major objective of this research is to
determine how various behavioral elements are integrated into a
system that serves to control social structure and its relation to the
environment.

It is intended that the ecological systems at the CBCFB become
taxonomically and ecologically among the best known in the United
States, and that research conducted here will contribute toward under-
standing both the mechanisms that underlie changes in vegetation and
associated animal life and the processes that control populations and
the stability of ecosystems. Such knowledge will not only have signifi-
cance in ecological theory but also be of practical importance to the
management of natural systems in man’s best interest.

The flora and fauna are being studied by Smithsonian systematists.
Research is concerned with not only lists of plants and animals but
also the genetic variability and ecologic relationships of the species
present. An initial survey of the vascular plants has been completed
by Daniel Higman under the direction of Stanwyn G. Shetler, associate
curator of phanerogams, and the floristic survey is now being extended
under the direction of Mason E. Hale, curator of cryptogams. Over
1000 specimens, representing 520 species of plants, have been collected,
and an ecologically annotated list with keys has been completed. The
floristic studies provide the groundwork for research on the principles
of vegetation change, knowledge of which is essential for the manage-
ment of vegetation for forestry, wildlife production, control of water-
sheds, landscaping highways and open spaces, and right-of-way
maintenance. Sufficient evidence has been accumulated in the North
Temperate zone over the past 25 years, particularly by Frank E.
Egler, Director of Aton Forest at Norfolk, Connecticut, to challenge
seriously the concept of a 3- to 5-stage pattern of succession in which
one community creates an environment less favorable to itself and more
favorable to the succeeding community. Egler is collaborating with
the Smithsonian in testing his hypothesis of “Initial Floristic Compo-
sition”? at the CBCFB. According to this concept, vegetational change
results primarily from the disseminules (fruits, seeds, roots, rhizomes)
already present on the site at the time of a major change such as
abandonment of cultivation. Vegetation at the Center lends itself well
to these studies of the underlying mechanisms of change.
OFFICE OF ECOLOGY 61

CONSERVATION

The Smithsonian Institution is actively engaged in international
conservation of nature and natural resources. Lee M. Talbot, Smith-
sonian field representative for international affairs in ecology and
conservation, is collaborating with E. M. Nicholson, convenor of the
terrestrial conservation section of the International Biological Program
(IBP), in the development of a worldwide program in conservation.
Under this program an effort is being made to establish a world network
of nature reserves and to evolve international cooperation in conserving
natural resources. The Smithsonian Institution may ultimately be
engaged in assisting with inventories of plant and animal components
of these selected natural ecosystems and the necessary basic general
descriptions of physical characteristics, vegetation, and animal life.
The IBP provides opportunities for attracting funds to support such
inventories, and to support research by systematists and ecologists in
connection with descriptions of these sites. Smithsonian scientists have
a tradition of devotion to conservation of natural resources, and they
now lend their strong support to the world conservation effort under
the IBP.

TROPICAL BIOLOGY

A program in tropical biology is evolving under the guidance of
special advisor Fosberg. In November a conference, in Panama, on
tropical biology was sponsored by the Smithsonian Institution, support-
ed by a grant from the Air Force Office of Scientific Research, with the
objectives of (1) drawing the attention of the scientific community
and the public to the urgent need for providing a scientific foundation
for the preservation of the productivity of the world’s energy-rich
tropical systems and (2) obtaining advice and guidance from scientists
as to the role of the Smithsonian in helping to develop an effective
world program in tropical biology. A report on this conference appeared
in the August 1967 issue of BioScience, and some of the results are dis-
cussed in the report of the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute
Qoel7 1):

EDUCATION

The Office of Ecology is concerned with education in ecology at
American universities. As the United States emerges into its new
awareness of the relevance of environmental relationships to man’s
future, we are caught in a critical shortage of ecologists at all levels
of the subject matter. The formal consortium of the Smithsonian
Institution, The Johns Hopkins University, and the University of
Maryland for mutual cooperation in research and education at the
CBCFB is one mechanism through which students are being attracted
into the field of ecology.
62 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967

In a study of education and research programs in ecology at American
universities the Office of Ecology is determining (1) how the Smith-
sonian program in ecology can complement university research
programs, (2) how to develop joint programs to attract young scientists
to the field of ecosystem-oriented ecology, (3) what are the interests
of both faculty and students that can be supported through the Smith-
sonian Foreign Currency Program, and (4) how the resources (scien-
tists, collections, and facilities) of the Smithsonian Institution can
contribute to education in the field of ecology. With this information the
Smithsonian can integrate its program in ecology effectively with
those of universities.

GIFTS AND GRANTS

Several gifts and grants have helped greatly in the development
of the CBCFB during FY 1967. Poplar Island (about 70 acres) was
given to the Smithsonian Institution by Dr. William L. Elkins, a
physician from Philadelphia. ‘This island harbors one of the few large
rookeries of great blue herons on Chesapeake Bay and nearly two dozen
pairs of ospreys. The land acquisition program was facilitated by
generous grants from the Research Corporation and the Max C.
Fleischmann Foundation. The Old Dominion Foundation provided
a highly important grant for initial laboratory facilities, living quarters,
equipment, and other basic requirements of the Center. At this early
stage of development all this assistance is particularly meaningful.

PUBLICATIONS

TALBoT, LEE M. Conservation spotlight on South-East Asia. Nature
and Resources, UNESCO (Paris), vol. 2, no. 2, pp. 5-9, 1966.

. Wild animals as a source of food. U.S. Fish and Wildlife
Service, Special Scientific Report, Wildlife, no. 98. 16 pp., 1966.

———. The Bangkok Conference. IUCN Bulletin (Morges Switzer-
land), new ser. no. 19, pp. 1-2, 1966.

———. Why care about the Javan tiger? Endangered species of
wildlife. Jn The call of the vanishing wild, Boston, pp. 34-37, 1967.

, and Swirt, L. W. Productions of wildlife in support of human

populations in Africa. In Proceedings, Ninth International Grass-
lands Congress, Sao Paulo, Brazil, January 1965, pp. 1355-1359,
1966.

, and Tatgot, MarrHa H. The tamarau Bubalus mindorensis

(Heude): observations and recommendations. Mammalia (Paris),

vol. 30, no. 1, pp. 1-12, 1966.

, and Ta.tsot, Martua H. Conservation of the Hong Kong

countryside. Government Printer, Hong Kong, 34 pp., 1966.

Office of Oceanography and Limnology

I. EUGENE WALLEN, Head

HE OFFICE OF OCEANOGRAPHY AND LIMNOLOGY, which provides co-
ee and assistance to scientists of the Smithsonian in their
diverse studies of organisms and sediments of the World Ocean, was
established separately within the Office of the Assistant Secretary
(Science) in June 1966. Dr. William I. Aron was appointed Deputy
Head in March 1967.

As part of its mission, the office is responsible for the operation of
the Smithsonian Oceanographic Sorting Center and the newly estab-
lished Mediterranean Marine Sorting Center.

Research Activities

An agreement has been reached whereby the Smithsonian research
vessel Phykos will be jointly used with the Southern Maine Vocational
Technical Institute in Portland. Under the initial one-year agreement
Phykos will be used in Maine from Labor Day until November 15 and
from March 15 through June 5. The Institute will maintain the vessel,
and it will be available to the Smithsonian for the other seven months,
whenever we can provide operating funds. The Institute can provide
full support for short research cruises in that area during their pos-
session of the ship and would assist in crewing the vessel during our
possession.

The Coast and Geodetic Survey vessel Oceanographer is on an around-
the-world cruise endorsed by the President. At the urging of the
National Council on Marine Resources and Engineering Develop-
ment, arrangements have been made for Richard Pieper (former
General Motors associate of Dr. Aron) and Conrad E. Mahnken and
Jack W. Jossi of the Bureau of Commercial Fisheries Laboratory in
Miami to join the ship in Bombay and make comparative collections
using the Hardy Plankton Recorder, the Indian Ocean Expedition Net,
and the Tropical Atlantic Expedition Net. R. Glover of Edinburgh
will process the Hardy samples in his Laboratory.

To the National Council on Marine Resources and Engineering
Development Secretary Ripley proposed that the United States set

63
64 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967

aside an atoll, an underwater tablemount, and a deep trench as pre-
serves for scientific work. Investigation of possible areas centered on
the naming of Rose Island in the American Samoa group, the
Tonga-Kermadec Trench, and Capricorn Tablemount, adjacent to
the Trench. This concept was approved by the President for
implementation.

About 50 dives have been made by 15 Smithsonian scientists in nine
different submarine vehicles. Although most of the dives have been for
familiarization, these vehicles are of interest to many Institution staff
members for biological and geological research on the origin of under-
sea canyons, the identity and behavior of echinoids and other bottom
organisms, the identity and behavior of midwater organisms, the
structure of the mid-Atlantic ridge, and many other projects. Edwin A.
Link provided free use and support of his ship Sea Diver, his Sub-
mersible Diving Chamber, his underwater house, and Ocean Systems’
new vehicle Deep Diver for initial experiments in the south Florida-
Bahamas area.

Marine science activities under the Foreign Currency Program were
initiated in Tunisia, Pakistan, India, Israel, Yugoslavia, and the United
Arab Republic. Most projects have involved planning visits thus far,
but firm programs have been developed in Israel and in Tunisia.
Additional countries on the list are being considered as possible sources
for the production of marine data. Cooperation with individual scien-
tists has been arranged in Argentina, Australia, Brazil, New Zealand,
Philippines, Ghana, Iran, Taiwan, Japan, Canada, Thailand, Great
Britain, Dominica, Lebanon, and Antarctica.

Support through the Smithsonian from the Vetlesen Foundation
enabled Miss Julie Booth to spend the last 18 months on Fairfax Island
of the Barrier Reef, off Australia. Miss Booth has assembled photo-
graphs, notes on behavior, paintings, and specimens, most of which will
come to the Smithsonian Institution.

SMITHSONIAN OCEANOGRAPHIC SORTING CENTER

The Smithsonian Oceanographic Sorting Center (SOSC) continues
to act as a service organization to the scientific community by receiving,
sorting, recording, and distributing marine biological, and geological
specimens. It also processes material from such international expedi-
tions as those to the Indian, Tropical Atlantic, and Antarctic Oceans.
Research ships are provided with records forms to insure that specific —
categories of data are provided to the scientist in his evaluation of the
sample. Preferred collection and preservation techniques are demon-
strated by SOSC personnel aboard ships. Shipping containers and
other supplies are furnished for shipboard use.
OFFICE OF OCEANOGRAPHY AND LIMNOLOGY 65

Since SOSC began operations, 34,545 samples of marine organisms
and sediments have been received. From 26,717 of these samples,
15,256,659 specimens and 277,895 cc. of an estimated 2,000,000 shell
fragments have been sorted to date. During the year, 6,885,151
specimens were sorted. Shipments made totaled 276, including 3,675
unsorted lots and 21,050 sorted lots, the latter containing 989,595
specimens. A total of 1,000 shipments of marine specimens have been
sent during the four and one-half years of SOSC existence. These
shipments included 7,650 unsorted lots and 41,823 sorted lots, the
latter including 5,542,631 whole specimens and 277,895 cc. of shell
fragments.

Approval by the seven Advisory Committees and/or by principal
investigators has been given 254 specialists to receive biological and
geological material processed at SOSC. Of these, 139 receive benthic
and midwater-trawl invertebrates; 64 (50 duplicates) receive plankton
groups, 80 (6 duplicates) receive fishes; 14 receive algae and 3, other
plant groups; and 10 receive geological specimens.

These authorized recipients have included specialists from the United
States and from 26 foreign countries: Argentina, Australia, Austria,
Belgium, Brazil, Canada, Cuba (displaced), Denmark, France,
Germany, Ghana, Great Britain, Hong Kong, India, Israel, Italy,
Malgache, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nigeria, Norway, Puerto
Rico, Singapore, Sweden, U.S.S.R., and West Africa.

With the technical advice and assistance of a specialist in systems
analysis, William R. Wheeler, an ADP system was prepared to meet
the specific requirements of SOSC. Standard reports will be pro-
grammed for rapid location of data on specific parameters, such as the
determination of geographic areas in which given taxa have been
present. Another report will list all taxa present in each sample proc-
essed at SOSC. These reports will also include information on the
present location of specimens either at SOSC or at other institutions
for identification and study.

With funds from the National Science Foundation, Office of Ant-
arctic Programs (OAP), a centralized record is being assembled of all
marine and terrestrial specimens collected by past and continuing
U.S. expeditions in Antarctica, in accordance with provisions of the
International Antarctic Treaty. A descriptive file is prepared and
maintained of the ocean-bottom photographs taken from the NSF-
funded Antarctic research ship Eltanin. Prints and negatives are
duplicated and sent to scientists studying the topography and bottom
communities of the ocean floor. A file of collecting permits issued by
the International Cooperation and Information -Program, OAP, is
maintained at SOSC as a preliminary record of material removed from
Antarctica.
66 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967

Under the Antarctic Records Project, two SOSC staff members
visited Antarctic specialists in the University of Southern California,
Los Angeles County Museum, Scripps Institution of Oceanography,
University of California at Berkeley, California Academy of Sciences,
and Stanford University. Cataloged were small collections of Ant-
arctic fishes, birds, and mammals at the California Academy of Sciences,
deep-freeze fish collections remaining at the Stanford Museum, and
various fungi now located at Berkeley. References to other collections
in the West Coast area were recorded for future contacts. Under the
same project, Betty J. Landrum and Harrison Sheng obtained data
on Antarctic entomological collections from the Bernice P. Bishop
Museum, Honolulu.

Although much of the information on Antarctic and sub-Antarctic
entomological collections has been distributed to interested specialists,
the remainder of the material was quite voluminous and much of it
was cataloged. The records included data on over 2,200 combina-
tions of taxa samples. The uncataloged material was estimated to
include over 1,200 slides, 25 jars of an unknown number of Acarina
specimens, and a large volume of sub-Antarctic material.

About 900 new black-and-white prints, 900 black-and-white nega-
tives, and 59 color slides were received and processed during the year.
For each of these, station data have been checked and recorded. The
amount of material now processed and stored totals over 7,000 black-
and-white prints, 7,000 black-and-white negatives, and 1,100 color
slides from Cruises 2-27. From these more than 10,000 prints have
been distributed to 22 scientists and institutions.

MEDITERRANEAN MARINE SORTING CENTER

Most of the many countries of the Mediterranean area have made or
are presently making collections of marine plants and animals. Usually
these countries have only a few marine specialists, and much of the
knowledge that could be obtained from the specimens has, as a result,
been lost to science. Also, the burden of maintaining taxonomic
storage often has ultimately led to the disposal of much valuable
material. This is especially unfortunate because of the expense of making
the collections, the impossibility of duplicating the material, and the
existence of specialists in other countries who would be willing to study
the specimens. The cost of processing, moreover, has deterred most
countries from sorting whole collections and distributing sorted speci-
mens to foreign specialists. Exchange of specimens within the area has
therefore been limited.

Responding to the need implicit in these conditions the Smithsonian
Institution established the Mediterranean Marine Sorting Center
OFFICE OF OCEANOGRAPHY AND LIMNOLOGY 67

(MMSC) at the Institut National Scientifique et Technique d’Océano-
graphie et de Péche, in Salammbé, Tunisia.

Plans had been made in 1965 to create a facility that would provide
sorting services in the Mediterranean-Red Sea region similar to those
of the Smithsonian’s Oceanographic Sorting Center in Washington,
D.C. Several sites were available for the establishment of this regional
center. Tunisia was chosen primarily for its location in the central
Mediterranean and because of the enthusiasm shown by the scientists
and Government of Tunisia to cooperate with the Smithsonian Insti-
tution in this project.

Representatives of the Smithsonian Institution met with Tunisian
government officials in late 1965 and mid-1966, and with the assistance
of the Embassy of the United States, an agreement to establish the
Mediterranean Marine Sorting Center was signed in September 1966.
The Director of the host Institut, Dr. Z. Ben Mustapha, has, since the
early planning stages, provided indispensable assistance and guidance.
The Institut is situated on the Gulf of Tunis, twelve kilometers north
of Tunis, at the traditional site of the important and ancient seaport
of Carthage.

The Center offers its services to marine scientists of all countries,
especially in the Mediterranean area. New collections, or collections
that have been partly worked, are processed by MMSC. These are
sorted to specimen groups which are then distributed to specialists for
study. Identified series of specimens ultimately return to MMSC,
whence representative sets are returned to the country of origin and to
recognized depositories around the world.

A working principle of MMSC is that the collector owns the collec-
tion. Generally a collector studies one group of specimens, and a few
groups are sent to some of his colleagues, perhaps associated with his
project. MMSC honors all such primary commitments, and distributes
the committed portion of the collection according to the instructions
of the collector. MMSC will, whenever appropriate, ask specialists to
work on the uncommitted, sorted fractions of the collections.

A series of Advisory Committees of recognized scientists of many
nationalities reviews and approves the qualifications of specialists to
receive MMSC specimens and do research on them. Besides sectional
Advisory Committees which guide MMSC on these matters, a General
Advisory Committee views MMSC in the broad framework of Medi-
terranean research. This Advisory Committee, which had its first
meeting January 17-19, 1967, includes members of international
scientific bodies who are responsible for much of the policy and direction
of the region’s oceanographic activities. This Committee will meet
regularly to provide MMSC with administrative and general guidance.
AT THE
MEDITERRANEAN
MARINE SORTING
CENTER

Freshly caught orga-
nisms are fixed accord-
ing to specific require-
ments by D. M. Dam-
kaer and M. Shili.

Documents for customs clear-
ance of shipments to MMSC
are prepared by Mrs. K.
Gmaty.

Newly arrived material is
checked for preservation and
label quality by M. Shili and
S.-Karaborni.

Plankton from the Gulf of
Tunis is sorted by Mrs. N.
Benjemia.

Fishes from the Gulf of Tunis
are identified by Mrs. A. Ben
Alaya and S. Karaborni. Right:
Vials of sorted plankton are
packed by H. Zaoui and S.
Karaborni for distribution to
specialists.

Departing for a shore-collecting
trip are K. el Ghezail, Gayle A.
Heron, H. Zaoui, and M. Shili.

70 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967

When samples are received at MMSC, the preservatives and the
labels are immediately examined. If necessary, preservatives and con-
tainers are replaced and new preservative-resistant labels are added.
The sorting of samples is to a degree that effectively balances what
specialists desire and what can be rapidly and accurately done by
trained technicians. Fishes and algae are sorted to families or genera,
but plankton and benthos are sorted to varying toxonomic levels,
depending on the group. All specimens are distributed with copies of
summarized collection data or field notes.

A great many of the specimen groups are expected to be eagerly sought
by specialists, especially when the new material supplements examples
already at hand, provides specimens from areas to which the specialist
has no access, or furnishes rare specimens. For some specimen groups,
however, specialists are so few that they are already overwhelmed with
study material. MMSC will indicate these shortages and encourage the
training of new specialists. Also MMSC will emphasize the importance
of certain collections, and try to persuade some scientists to study
material which might otherwise be overlooked. Finally, there will be
groups for which there are no specialists at all; here, too, MMSC can
indicate the availability of study material, and the lack of qualified
investigators.

A second aspect of the distribution of specimens by MMSC is in the
equitable apportionment of identified series of specimens resulting from
the work of specialists. First priority for such series generally goes to
the collector and his sponsoring institution. Suggestions are obtained
from the Advisory Committees as to appropriate museums for deposi-
tion of duplicate sets of identified specimens. Deposition will be en-
couraged in museums throughout the world where important related
collections are already housed, and where the material will have
permanent care, and be readily available to scientists.

For maximum efficiency, and to better cope with the variety of
organisms and their techniques for processing, MMSC has been
divided into four sections—vertebrates, plankton, benthic inverte-
brates, and algae. Professional scientists are recruited, from Tunisia
whenever possible, to supervise each section.

At MMSC there is a strong atmosphere of working together. Frequent
informal discussions about techniques and identification are held
among the technicians and the Director of the Center, and ideas are
freely exchanged. To continually improve the quality of specimen
handling by learning new techniques, and to introduce the staff and
associates of MMSC to a variety of experiences and training, MMSC
will occasionally bring systematics specialists to Salammbdé. The Ad-
OFFICE OF OCEANOGRAPHY AND LIMNOLOGY 71

visory Committee members themselves have served as consultants for
administrative and general scientific matters.

The Center sorts collections of the Institut National d’Océanographie,
which has continuing sampling programs for fishes, benthos, and
plankton. The sorting of this material will provide Institut specialists
with certain groups for detailed study; other groups will then be
available for distribution to other specialists.

Mediterranean-Red Sea collections from many sources will be
accepted by MMSC for processing and distribution. As demands
increase, priorities will have to be placed on the sorting of collections
from broader survey projects. Highest priority will generally be given
projects which are international in character.

Information about the Center will be given through contact with
specialists, notices in scientific bulletins, and distribution of descriptive
leaflets. MMSC seeks to obtain wide collection coverage, and at the
same time encourages the participation of a maximum number of
countries and specialists in research on the specimens.

The Mediterranean Marine Sorting Center began operations
November 2, 1966, when Director David M. Damkaer, who normally
serves as supervisor for plankton at the Smithsonian Oceanographic
Sorting Center, reported to the Institut National d’Océanographie
et de Péche, in Salammbé, Tunisia.

Two laboratories on the grounds of the Institut are used for fixa-
tion and preservation of newly-collected organisms. A large room at
the Institut houses the office and laboratory of the Director and his
research associate. A villa has been rented 1000 feet from the Institut
to triple the Center’s working area.

H. Adair Fehlmann, Supervisor of the Smithsonian Oceanographic
Sorting Center in Washington, D.C., worked at MMSC from March
15-31, 1967. Fehlmann led two cruises and two shore-collecting
trips in which all technicians were able to participate. M. DiGenova, an
expert in preservation of marine organisms at the Stazione Zoologica
in Naples, served as a consultant to MMSC for five weeks, and in-
structed MMSC technicians in many aspects of specimen-handling,
with particular emphasis on fixation and preservation. Fresh material
was gathered on 10 shore field trips and during 13 daytime cruises.

In FY 1967, Professor Jose Stirn, from the Institute for Sea Research
at Portoroz, Yugoslavia, joined MMSC as supervisor for benthic
invertebrates.

An administrative assistant, five technicians, and two maintenance
men complete the present MMSC staff. All except the latter two have
had university studies in biology and speak some English; some have
studied abroad. They have passed several months in training in every
di SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967

aspect of collection-handling. The technicians are imaginative, eager,
and responsible. With the arrival at MMSC of large collections, the
technicians will help in the training of additional technicians, as the
demands for services increase.

In addition to the collections which have been received from Tunisia,
plankton samples have been sent to MMSC by the Stazione Zoologica
in Naples. Quantitative benthos and sediment samples also have been
received from a recent Yugoslavian-Tunisian survey of the Lake of
Tunis, a brackish, eutrophic lagoon.

The Institute for Sea Research at Portoroz, Yugoslavia, has sent
MMSC 174 plankton samples from the northern Adriatic Sea. Three
specimen groups (cladocerans, chaetognaths, and fish eggs and larvae)
were committed by the Institute for Sea Research. MMSC has been
asked to distribute the remaining groups to approved specialists.
This plankton collection has more than ordinary value because of the
detailed concurrent hydrographic data available.
Museum of Natural History

RIcHARD S. Cowan, Director

5 ee SYSTEMATIC BIOLOGIST, whether in a university or in a public
museum, daily faces the unpleasant fact that the cost of maintaining
his essential and ever-growing collections rises continually, that space
and staff seem to shrink vis-a-vis expanding research requirements, and
that other, more glamorous scientific programs compete fiercely and
all too successfully for the never adequate funds available. Small
wonder, then, that he has sensed an alarming trend toward the down-
grading of systematic studies in the United States.

Is a reversal of this trend possible? In our view, it is both possible
and, in view of the ecological problems man is creating for himself,
obviously and urgently necessary.

One recalls that in the last century natural history museums became
inevitable as the private collector’s “cabinet of curiosities” became
inadequate to exhibit, or to contain, even a small part of the diversity
of the world of nature. As private collections grew, their scope tended
to lessen and the selectivity to increase, until only the choicest specimens
could be retained. This condition, plus jealousies among private collec-
tors and, oftentimes, the inaccessibility to science of their specimens,
stimulated development of more generally available research collections
in university centers and in public museums and botanical gardens.
These institutions also became the repositories for biological vouchers
obtained during the early days of exploring this continent, when the aim
was simply to accumulate vast collections—often without critically
assessing the data associated with the specimens or the representation
thus obtained.

Growth of our National Collections is typical of this. Aware of the
need to amass a representation of the Nation’s wealth of natural

73
74 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967

‘history and urged by the Smithsonian’s first Secretary, Joseph Henry,
the Federal Government included zoologists, botanists, geologists, and
anthropologists on early exploring expeditions. Agencies such as the
Geological Survey in the Department of the Interior, the old Biological
Survey and the Bureau of American Ethnology, and the Department of
Agriculture all contributed heavily to the National Collections. In the
areas represented by these agencies, the Smithsonian’s Natural History
Museum is by law the national repository.

Today, for the reasons earlier noted, collectors in all biological
disciplines throughout the country tend more and more to deposit in
the Museum their types and rare specimens. The resulting increase in
the Collections—they have nearly tripled in the last 20 years—has
placed on the Museum staff an increased responsibility for preserving
them. It is, perhaps, a prime reason for the restive concern among the
systematic science community that growing emphasis on research in
the Museum of Natural History may cause it to slight the curatorial
responsibilities entailed in custody of the National Collections, even
though the research is based upon these collections.

To such expressions of concern, answer can be given swiftly and
conclusively: over the past three years, the Museum staff has increased
by forty percent its production of published research, yet in the same
period the National Collections have on the whole become better
housed, better cataloged, better maintained, more accessible, and more
used than ever before.

Custody of the National Collections, it is true, poses a challenge
requiring constant innovation. As prime repository for documentation
of the Nation’s natural history, the Museum cannot limit the Collec-
tions in scope or in numbers of specimens. At the same time it must
heed the quality of the materials accepted, and carefully avoid com-
peting with other centers in any way that would deter the growth of
systematic biology in the United States.

With 51 million specimens already in the Collections, how can their
management improve and research output increase simultaneously? It
is true that for decades the Collections grew so rapidly that a timely
record of accessions often could not be kept by old-fashioned hand
entries in catalogs and day books, and that sizeable backlogs of un-
cataloged and unidentified material accrued. But with the advent of
data processing, the Museum has in the past few years painstakingly
and soundly developed improved techniques for cataloging specimens
and for processing and manipulating the data associated with them.

Today, cataloging is accomplished in less than half the time previously
needed, it is many times more accurate, and the system adopted has a
MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY—INTRODUCTION 13

potential for further extensive savings. Data processing, moreover, after
several years of planning has reached the stage where we have under
way several pilot projects that involve collections of various groups of
organisms representing a variety of curatorial problems.

We have thus made a start toward the goal of freeing the staff biologist
from routine curatorial tasks, so that he can function more nearly as a
research scientist. And so that the specimens continue to be maintained
in the best possible condition, “curators” demonstrating an_all-
consuming interest in the care of specimens have been advanced to the
position of our first collections managers. Assisted by technicians and
aids, they make a full-time profession of collections care, thus relieving
the professional scientists for progressively greater research effort.

Sound scientific judgments concerning the growth and manage-
ment of the collections will always have to be provided by the profes-
sional staff, but routine curation is to an increasing extent being
handled by collection management teams. A program is being devel-
oped to seek out and train qualified persons having the natural bent for
collections management. It should in a few years assure a steady flow
of such trained personnel into the entire museum community.

What is the goal of the Museum of Natural History regarding its own
use of the National Collections? To increase the size of the research
staff obviously will not, indeed cannot, serve to keep pace with the
enormous growth of natural history collections that must continue if
man is to gain sufficient knowledge of his environment to manage it.
Perhaps no more than a twenty-five percent increase in the size of
professional staff should be expected: the fond but unrealistic dream of
past generations of museum curators—to have a specialist for every
group of organisms—is simply not achievable in any research center.
Instead, a limited cadre of inspired, productive systematic biologists can
and is being assembled. The work of this staff must, however, be com-
plemented by a vigorous program of research in systematic biology
throughout the country, and that program, in turn, must be strength-
ened by ready access to the National Collections.

Through expanding fellowship programs at the postgraduate and
predoctoral levels, this access to the Collections is already being ac-
corded for extended periods. Each scientific department in the Museum
has, or is developing, facilities for further such research cooperation. In
addition, loans of collections of all kinds have reached new peaks, and
development of new packing and shipping techniques will enable us to
match the increased number of loan requests expected in the future.

In short, the Museum of Natural History reaffirms its mandate to
care for and make available to all serious biologists the natural history
76 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967

collections the Nation has entrusted to it, to continue to describe the
components of the world ecosystem and their interrelationships, and to
serve systematic biology generally.

Through joint educational programs, through long- and short-term
loans of collections, and through cooperative research projects, we
stand prepared to assist educational institutions in returning systematic
biology to its central, integrative position in every university curriculum
across the land.

The Summer Institute for Systematics was characterized by lively discussion
and differences of opinion.
Research and Publication

OFFICE OF SYSTEMATICS

The most important accomplishment during the year was the staging
of the first annual Summer Institute in Systematics, with the collabora-
tion of the Society of Systematic Zoology and the American Society of
Zoologists, and the support of the National Science Foundation and
the Air Force Office of Scientific Research. Ellis Yochelson, U.S.
Geological Survey, and Robert Higgins, Wake Forest College, repre-
sented the two zoological societies. They planned and carried out the
program with R. S. Cowan, Head of the Office of Systematics.

From 200 applicants the 25 participants were selected on the basis
of the impact they would have on systematic biology on their return
to their home universities; all were active researchers and teachers of
zoological systematics. Each morning for three weeks the participants,
with many members of the staff of the Museum of Natural History
and from Federal science laboratories, gathered with an outstanding
speaker to consider one of the several facets comprising systematic
biology today. Afternoons were free for research in the national collec-
tions, but discussions generated during the morning often continued
into the afternoon and evening as well. A transcript of the speaker’s
remarks and the substantive parts of the discussions will be released
as soon as it can be prepared.

Planning for the Flora of North America project was materially
advanced with the support of the Office of Systematics. Progress on
this 15-year project is discussed on page 88.

A project to develop a manual for neotropical squamata (reported
under Vertebrate Zoology, p. 105), was initiated with support provided
by the office of systematics for bringing Dr. Donoso-Barros from Chile
to work with James Peters.

In addition to these major projects, the office of systematics provided
support and encouragement for field research, for the acquisition of
shared computer time, for the translation of scientific papers and the
preparation of scientific illustrations, and for equipment essential to
the development of several staff research projects.

77
78 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967—MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY
OFFICE OF ANTHROPOLOGY

With the assistance of professor Sol Tax from the University of
Chicago, who serves as special advisor for anthropology, considerable
progress was made in developing new research projects in which the
staff participated jointly with many colleagues outside the Institution.

One of these projects, the new Handbook of North American Indians,
got under way with William C. Sturtevant serving as editor, assisted
by Samuel Stanley who joined the Office in September 1966 as project
coordinator. As a result of wide publicity by Sturtevant and Stanley,
more than one thousand potential authors of sections of the handbook
have responded. The 12,800 entries in the 1907-1910 Handbook of
American Indians North of Mexico have been analyzed and sorted accord-
ing to subject matter as a foundation for the effort to provide for this
standard work a replacement which will incorporate the results of the
last sixty years of research on the subject. The publication is expected
to occupy twelve or more volumes and is intended to be useful for
audiences from scholars and students to school teachers and librarians.
Geographically, the Handbook will cover Indians from northern Mexico
to the Arctic; topically, it will include physical anthropology, ethnology,
archeology, linguistics, and an assessment of the current condition of
North American Indian societies.

The long-standing commitment of the Smithsonian Institution to the
study of native American cultures was reaffirmed in an International
Conference on Changing Cultures in April 1966. In consequence, a new
urgent anthropology project of international scope has been inau-
gurated. Responses to the questionnaire distributed by the journal
Current Anthropology, requesting anthropologists to list anthropological
research known to be urgent and to name people to undertake it, have
been analyzed. The analysis of these data and those from other sources
will be published in a catalog of research projects on rapidly changing
cultures.

A Wenner-Gren Foundation grant for field work in rapidly changing
cultures provides assistance to many anthropologists over the world
who require small sums for urgent anthropological research. The aim
is to stimulate field research in these areas of urgency and to assist in
developing and strengthening professional anthropologists and anthro-
pological institutions in those countries where cultures are subject to
rapid modification.

The ancient technology project, co-directed by Clifford Evans and
Gus W. Van Beek, with the collaboration of the Battelle Memorial in-
stitute, has initiated a study of ancient metal objects using metallo-
graphic and spectrochemical techniques. Already laboratory tests of
RESEARCH AND PUBLICATION—-ANTHROPOLOGY 79

several hundred artifacts from Ecuador have been analyzed, revealing
important information concerning aboriginal methods of working
gold, copper, silver, and various alloys. As a part of this project,
research associate Theodore Wertime spent two months in Iran as
part of a team of archeologists and metallurgy historians studying
ancient metal-smelting sites.

With excess currencies and Smithsonian research funds, Hans
Wulff, University of New South Wales, Australia, is conducting a study
of ancient urban technology in Iran. In a joint expedition between
his university and the Smithsonian, Wulff conducted field work for
seven months, gathering data on the technology of pre-industrial crafts.
Among the outstanding discoveries concerning present-day Iranian
crafts is that of the method of making alkaline turquoise glaze, a sub-
stance known since the fourth millenium B.C. and still used by local
ceramicists for the manufacture of small ornamental objects. Details of
the process were recorded and sufficient raw materials were collected to
conduct a series of experiments on the chemical and physical nature
of the material.

Senior ethnologist, John C. Ewers, completed the editing of a cen-
tennial edition of George Catlin’s O-kee-pa, A Religious Ceremony, and
Other Customs of the Mandans, which will be published in fall 1967. He
also completed a manuscript on the development of artistic conscious-
ness of the American West in the 19th century, as his contribution to
a textbook entitled The Artist in America.

In preparation for completion of The Indians of Texas in 1830, Ewers
examined collections of Southern Plains Indian artifacts and records.
This volume involves the translation of a manuscript on the Indians
of Texas written by Jean Louis Berlandier, biologist for the 1828-
1830 Mexican border expedition. In the process of drawing together
this information, he is also evaluating the watercolors which were
prepared under Berlandier’s supervision to accompany his manuscript;
the book will also include descriptions of the ethnological specimens
collected by Berlandier.

Editorial work for the projected volume on physical anthropology
in The Handbook of Middle American Indians occupied T. Dale Stewart
during most of summer 1966. He also presented a paper and chaired
a program at the 37th International Congress of Americanists in
Argentina. After the Congress, on the invitation of the University of
Chile, he went to Santiago for a week to consult with the physical
anthropology faculty and to review their research programs.

In March, Stewart spent several days in Yucatan identifying and
studying the human skeletal remains uncovered by E. Wyllys Andrews
during his excavations in the Mayan site known as Dzibilchaltun. The
80 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967—-MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY

numerous examples of cranial deformity and tooth mutilation were of
particular interest.

Through communication with John R. Groome of Grenada, W.LI.,
Stewart obtained possession of the skeleton of a Negro with teeth
mutilated in a manner known to have been practiced earlier in
Cameroon, Africa. In a paper jointly authored by Stewart and Groome,
a case is made for this having been one of the original African slaves,
and, if so, this is only the second such example on record.

Senior archeologist Waldo R. Wedel resumed his investigations of
the so-called council circles of central Kansas. Long a puzzling feature
in Plains archeology, the council circles each consist of a little earthen
mound surrounded by a shallow ditch or a series of elongated depres-
sions placed end-to-end to form a circular or subcircular pattern 100

Prehistoric wooden carving,
approximately one foot high,
from Spiro Mound, Oklahoma,
part of a large collection
presented to the U.S. National
Museum by Richard K. Meyer.

RESEARCH AND PUBLICATION—ANTHROPOLOGY 81

to 200 feet across. Each is associated with a village complex and no
village has more than one such circle; only five are on record, all
within 20 miles of each other. The sites with which they are associated
date from about A.D. 1500 to 1700, and are believed to represent a
period of Wichita Indian occupancy.

Of prime interest was the finding of human bones at every point
where the archeological trench intersected the circle. Most of the bones
were scattered randomly about the area and occurred essentially in the
same levels as the refuse, bison, and other animal bones. Almost without
exception, the bones were in poor condition, giving the impression of
having lain a long time on the surface before finally being cast into a
pit or trench along with other camp refuse. At or near the center of the
mound which forms the heart of the circle complex, a large fireplace
was uncovered. It seems possible that this was the site of a succession of
large, perhaps ceremonial, fires, rather than a slow accumulation of
ashes from household use over a long period of time. The position of the
hearth near the center of a circle complex suggests that large fires may
have been built as signals to other council circles in the area.

Henry B. Collins, senior scientist, retired from Government service on
December 30, 1966, and soon thereafter was appointed archeologist
emeritus. In this capacity he will maintain his office and continue his
research in Arctic anthropology.

Paul H. Voorhis joined the anthropology staff as a language specialist
in March. Already he has completed initial preparation of his doctoral
dissertation on Kickapoo grammar, he has begun preparation of other
texts for publication, and he has started to obtain a translation of
Kickapoo documents long on deposit in the anthropology archives.
These documents, previously incomprehensible to all but the Kickapoos,
are now yielding both linguistic and ethnological data.

Research on human ecological systems and prehistoric water systems
continued to occupy Richard B. Woodbury who is completing a report
on water-control systems in the Tehuacan Valley, Mexico. Woodbury
relinquished the chairmanship of the office of anthropology at the end
of January in order to devote greater time to research.

Museum specialist George E. Phebus, Jr., has discovered in the
ethnological collections of the Northwest Coast, many objects that help
explain other fragmentary artifacts found in that area. His own strati-
graphic excavations during past years in Oregon and Washington have
enabled him to identify and put in order the Museum’s vast archeologi-
cal collections from the Columbia River drainage. He is preparing
several scientific papers and larger monographs based upon his research.

Research associate C. G. Holland completed a monograph on the
archeology of Southwestern Virginia. This study was conducted under
82 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967—-MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY

auspices of the Museum of Natural History, under a National Science
Foundation grant, and he has turned over all the specimens to the
permanent collections of the Museum.

A program of archeological survey in Brazil under the direction of
Clifford Evans and research associate Betty J. Meggers began in 1965
with funds from a Smithsonian research award and with the official
collaboration of the Conselho Nacional de Pesquisas of Brazil. During
summer 1966, they undertook a tour of inspection of the archeological
sites, checking field notes, film records, maps and data assembled
by each field project. In addition to developing a considerable body
of knowledge about Brazilian archeology, the program has served
as the stimulus for archeology in Brazil. A grant from the Wenner-
Gren Foundation provided opportunity for the Brazilian participants
to attend the 37th International Congress of Americanists in Argentina.
Following the Congress, Evans and Meggers formulated plans with
an Argentine archeologist for the development of a coordinated
archeological program similar to that which is so successful in Brazil.
Professor Ramiro Matos M., professor of anthropology at the Univer-
sidad Nacional de Centro del Peru, Huancayo, continued his training
under Evans and Meggers in modern archeological methods of analysis
and interpretation of artifacts, with the support of a fellowship from
the John Simon Guggenheim Foundation. With Professor Matos
they have also developed plans for a long-range, coordinated, research-
training archeological program in Peru.

The 37th International Congress of Americanists awarded a gold
medal to Evans and Meggers for their outstanding contributions to
South American archeology. They were also recognized by the Govern-
mtent of Ecuador, which conferred upon them the National Order
“Al Merito,” for their work in that country.

Research associate Olga Linares de Sapir returned at the beginning
of this year from archeologic and ethnographic field work in
Southern Senegal, West Africa. Hers was the first stratigraphic arche-
ology ever attempted in the area and it is hoped that the large number
of charcoal samples collected will permit the development of an
absolute dating sequence and a chronology based on artifact types
and pottery. She also completed for publication a monograph on the
cultural chronology in the Gulf of Chiriqui, Panama.

The three-year project of interdisciplinary investigation into the
prehistoric cultural ecology of the Valley of Oaxaca, Mexico, continued
under the direction of Kent V. Flannery. In addition to the discoveries
reported last year concerning the geomorphology and ecology of the
valley in Early Formative times, it is now known that habitation of
the dry caves excavated by the expedition extends back to about
7800 B.C.
RESEARCH AND PUBLICATION—-ANTHROPOLOGY 83

The archeologically later Early Formative period in the Valley of
Oaxaca about 10 kilometers north of Monte Alban appears to be as
rich and complex as any found in Mesoamerica. Deeply buried levels
at one site yielded a series of packed-clay house floors with well-
preserved post-moulds and fragments of wattle-and-daub walls and
storage pits. A number of dry caves from the late phases of the Monte
Alban sequence yielded thousands of cultivated plant specimens, as
well as bits of nets, baskets, textile and sandal fragments, and fire drills.

Future plans include mapping of all edible species in selected vege-
tation areas, faunal studies, and more intensive study of the late pre-
ceramic and Early Formative phases of the valley.

‘The most complete dictionary compiled since the 16th century for
any American Indian language” describes the Tzotzil dictionary
compiled by Robert M. Laughlin. Entries total about 25,000, and
special attention has been given to the Tzotzil vocabulary pertaining
to the plants and animals. With the assistance of Alexander F. Skutch
for the native birds and Peter H. Raven and Dennis E. Breedlove of
Stanford University for plant identification, several thousand native
terms for organisms were recorded.

Compilation of a Bibliography of Anthropological Bibliographies of
Africa was completed during the year by Gordon D. Gibson, who also
served as acting chairman of the office of anthropology from February
to June. Although not exhaustive, this work attempts to provide the
broadest possible coverage, and is expected, therefore, to be useful to
all types of anthropological research on Africa.

In his continuing study of Micronesian ethnohistory, Saul H. Riesen-
berg, who in February became chairman of the Office of Anthropology,
studied ships logs, journals, and other ethnohistorical materials in
various marine depositories in New England. In February he joined
Thomas Gladwin of the National Institutes of Health and Samuel
Elbert of the University of Hawaii in a joint project at Puluwat in the
Caroline Islands to study Micronesian navigation and sailing. Here
the aboriginal methods of navigation are still practiced in voyages of
up to several hundred miles across the open sea. Riesenberg is investi-
gating the complex of ethnographic features—economic, social, and
political—which center upon or are affected by the frequent long
voyages of these people.

Eugene I. Knez revisited Korea to gather additional data for his
illustrated index of Korean material culture, preparation of which is
nearing completion. While there he also participated in the inter-
national conference to reestablish a Korean National Science Museum.

William H. Crocker returned to Brazil to initiate a two-month
comparative survey of the Apanyekra-Canela, closely related to the
Ramkokamekra-Canela which he has been studying since 1957.
84 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967—-MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY

Hajar Bin Humeid, the title of a work nearing completion by Gus W.
Van Beek, presents a cultural cross section of a South Arabian farming
town and trading center during the first millennium B.C. and the early
centuries following. Of special interest is the pottery chronology, the
first long-range, stratigraphically based chronology for southern
Arabia.

Van Beek also visited Phoenician archeological sites in Tunisia and,
with the staff of the Tunisian National Institute of Archeology and the
Arts, developed plans for a long-range project to excavate ancient
Carthage, the capital of the western Phoenician empire from 814 to
146 B.C. While basically a conventional archeological excavation,
this project is expected to be interdisciplinary, in that it involves the
paleontological correlation of sea-level fluctuations, as revealed by
microfossils, and closely dated artifacts of man’s culture. This study
will also involve examination of subsistence patterns in a complex
historical site with special reference to man’s use of his environment.
It will also be cooperative in the sense that both American and Tu-
nisian archeologists will participate in all stages of the field work and
publication.

Some selective forces in human evolution are revealed for the first
time in J. Lawrence Angel’s study of the skeletal remains of an ancient
population near Lerna, Greece. Combining evidences of marked
contrasts in fecundity with evidence of greater fertility in family groups
whose skull bones showed high incidence of thalassemia, a disease
which protects against malaria, Angel concluded that thalassemia was
a selective factor in ancient Greece. His monograph on Lerna puts
great stress on the total ecological picture of the time and deals particu-
larly with changes in population density and demography and changes
in malaria which appears chronically to have affected the people of
that area.

Angel, with the collaboration of Donald J. Ortner and others, both
within and outside the Smithsonian, began a research program on
development and aging in human bone, including the biochemical and
micromorphological end results of aging processes. A laboratory for
these studies has been completed and work will begin in the next
fiscal year.

Lucille St. Hoyme, accompanied Jane Phillips of Howard University
on a two-week field trip to Jamaica. She continued work on her study
of changing concepts of fossil man during the last 200 years.

Katharine Luomala, professor of anthropology at the University of
Hawaii, worked most of the year as a research associate on manuscripts
concerned with Gilbert Islands culture and ecology. Gilbertese artifacts
in the museum were studied, photographed, and described, particularly
the shark-toothed weapons.
RESEARCH AND PUBLICATION—ANTHROPOLOGY 85

River Basin Surveys

In contrast with the recent past, only 50 percent of River Basin
Surveys field projects were concerned with archeological problems
within the Middle Missouri area of the Dakotas. This does not indicate
the abandonment of an area long of prime interest; rather, it reflects
the substantial completion of field investigations within the major
reservoirs of the Missouri River. Field investigations will continue, but
at a reduced level. Several areas not adequately sampled are endangered
by shoreline erosion or by recreational developments, but future
investigations here will be completed only as other projects become less
pressing.

A total of twelve field projects were undertaken during the field
season—seven in North Dakota, three in South Dakota, and one each
in Iowa and Wyoming:

1. The Durkin site, a small village of the Extended Middle Missouri
horizon, situated in the upper Big Bend Reservoir of central South
Dakota. The artifact inventory and house pattern are close parallels of
those from the Thomas Riggs site but with a significant increment of
rim sherds symptomatic of the Initial Coalescent horizon.

2. The Ketchen site, in the upper Big Bend Reservoir, proved to be
a close counterpart of the Durkin village and contained similar evidence
of ceramic influences deriving from the Coalescent tradition.

3. The Cattle Oiler site, immediately upstream from the Ketchen
site. The occupation attributable to the Initial Middle Missouri
horizon is closely related to the Anderson component of the Dodd site
in the Oahe Reservoir to the north. In addition, there is good evidence
of a Thomas Riggs component (perhaps no more than a peripheral
development of the Ketchen village) only a short distance to the south.

4. The South Cannonball site, an intensively occupied village in
the upper Oahe Reservoir, central North Dakota. The site is repre-
sentative of the Extended Middle Missouri horizon. A cursory examina-
tion of the ceramic collection suggests close ties with Mississippian de-
velopments in Minnesota, a matter of great significance in view of the
long-standing problems, vis-a-vis the origins of the Middle Missouri
tradition.

5. The Larson site in the Oahe Reservoir in northern South Dakota.
The site manifests a long sequence of occupations extending from late
prehistory to the period of Euro-American contact. Although the
village, at least in its late components, has been labeled as Arikara,
much more work will be required to clarify the cultural situation.

6. The Fort Manuel site, in the upper Oahe Reservoir, North
Dakota. This important post was operated during 1812-1813 by the Mis-
86 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967—-MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY

souri Fur Company for trade with the Arikara. The structures and
palisaded defenses were completely excavated and much of the sur-—
rounding area was cleared by means of earth-moving machinery. Both
European and aboriginal artifacts of the early 19th century were re-
covered but in relatively small numbers. Despite a diligent search,
no evidence was uncovered that would shed light on the remains of the
persons who died at the post during its brief use.

7. The Fisher site, in the Bowman-Haley Reservoir of north-
western South Dakota. The site contains five zones of occupation;
only the two lowermost (both of McKean affinities) produced dis-
tinctive cultural remains.

8. The Red Fox site, also in the Bowman-Haley Reservoir, held a
somewhat similar sequence of components. The lowermost is related to
the McKean complex; the uppermost representative of the Coalescent
tradition of the Middle Missouri area.

9. The Pipestem Reservoir, near Jamestown, North Dakota, was
surveyed but with negative results. While apparently devoid of arche-
ological features, it is possible that a few sites, masked by the heavy
vegetation of late summer, were missed by the reconnaissance party.

10. The lower Garrison Diversion Project of eastern North Dakota.
The area was examined late in the season, thus adding more arche-
ological sites to the growing number already recorded in the area.

11. The Saylorville Reservoir, along the Des Moines River in
north-central Iowa was surveyed as a prelude to large-scale excavation.
Of the 66 archeological sites recorded by the survey party, only 16
were considered to warrant excavation.

12. The Mummy Cave site, near Cody, Wyoming, was excavated
as a joint project of the National Geographic Society — Whitney Gallery
of Western Art — Smithsonian Institution. The deposits within the site
contained some 38 occupational levels extending from before 7000 B.C.
to the ethnographic period. The extensive collection of perishable
objects from the dated McKean levels are deemed to be of particular
importance.

In June of 1967, six additional projects were begun or continued by
River Basin Surveys. field parties;

1. Continued investigation at the South Cannonball site to exploit
areas of the village partially cleared by machinery during 1966.

2. Continued work at the Larson site in the hope of adding to the
fragmentary cultural sequence presently known.

3. Excavation in portions of the Medicine Creek site in the Big
Bend Reservoir now threatened by recreational developments.

4. Excavation at sites threatened with immediate destruction by
construction activity within the Garrison Diversion Project.
RESEARCH AND PUBLICATION—BOTANY 87

5. An archeological reconnaissance of the Cottonwood Springs
Reservoir, just west of the community of Hot Springs, South Dakota.
With the beginning of the year, the River Basin Surveys initiated a
new series, Publications in Salvage Archeology, to report the results of
excavations completed under the broad aegis of the Inter-Agency
Archeological and Paleontological Salvage Program. The series is
edited by staff members of the River Basin Surveys and printed by
modern offset press in editions of 1,500 copies. As of the end of the
fiscal year, four numbers totaling about 500 pages have been printed
and distributed. It is anticipated that others will follow at the rate of
four issues per year.

BOTANY

The development of broad concepts in systematic botany may be
the culmination of a lifetime career in the study of one particular
aspect of plant life or in the investigation of one particular group of
plants. These concepts often result only after years of intense concen-
tration on the taxa involved, and an understanding of the whole is
something that follows only after a keen appreciation of the parts.

Research associate F. A. McClure has spent a lifetime studying the
bamboos, a most important group of plants which enter into the daily
lives of so many persons in the tropics. From his early days as a teacher
and plant collector in the Orient, through his work with the plant
explorers of the U.S. Department of Agriculture, to his intensive
studies of the preserved bamboo specimens in the U.S. National
Herbarium and living plants in his personal garden, McClure has had
his eye upon a single goal—a complete understanding of these plants.

Since the appearance in 1887 of the last systematic revision of the
bamboos, the number of validly published genera has nearly trebled
and the number of species is now nearly eight times as great. A fresh
perspective on the generic patterns currently discernible within this
group of plants is now long overdue. His studies in progress have the
objectives of exploring these patterns, providing revised and uniform
descriptions of the tenable genera among the 60 or more which are
validly published, redefining their boundaries, proposing new genera
where necessary, providing plates to illustrate a typical species of each,
and setting up keys to facilitate generic identifications.

The service performed through the identification of plant specimens
is often integrally associated with the research of the professional staff.
Bryologist Harold Robinson has successfully combined the traditional
service function of providing identifications with his research into the
systematics of tropical mosses. Identification of over a thousand
88 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967—-MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY

bryophyte specimens collected by Robert M. King and José Cuatre-
casas in Colombia became the basis for a preliminary publication on
the bryophytes of that country. While it is far short of being a Colom-
bian bryophyte flora, it is the first major effort in over thirty years at
offering a means of identifying these plants from that part of the world.
Mosses collected by Julian Steyermark from Venezuela are expected
to provide a foundation for a similar moss flora of that country.

Since the days when it sponsored Asa Gray’s classical Synoptical
Flora of North America, the Smithsonian Institution has been active
in research and publication on the indigenous plants of North America,
and it will soon be involved in a new effort to survey the American
flora. When the American Society of Plant Taxonomists decided in
August 1966 to organize the ‘“‘Flora North America Project,’ the
Smithsonian was chosen as headquarters and Stanwyn G. Shetler was
named executive secretary. The editorial committee met at the Smith-
sonian in January and elected William L. Stern temporary chairman
of the steering committee. The principal accomplishment was the
preparation of a draft of the first grant proposal.

Flora North America is a 15-year cooperative effort of American
and Canadian taxonomists to produce a four-volume manual of the
native vascular plants of North America exclusive of Mexico. The
project is expected to result in the training of many new taxonomists,
and the resulting manual should benefit various economic research
activities, as well as biology in general. At its completion, knowledge
of the Boreal and Arctic floras of the world will be largely completed,
since the Flora U.S.S.R., covering the Soviet Union, and Flora
Europeae, covering all of Europe, are either complete or in preparation.

Research activities on plant anatomy were expanded with the arrival
of Edward S. Ayensu whose major interest is in the comparative
anatomy and phylogeny of angiosperms, especially the monocotyledons.
With senior botanist Lyman D. Smith, Ayensu is study'ng the com-
parative anatomy of the Velloziaceae, a plant family that is one of the
most interesting and geographically puzzling links between the floras
of tropical America and Africa. He will also continue his studies in the
Dioscoreales, the order of true yams.

Most of the time of José Cuatrecasas has been used in the completion
of a monograph of the Brunelliaceae, a tropical family of 50 species
distributed from southern Mexico to Peru, Bolivia, and the Caribbean
Islands. It will be published as a part of the international project
Flora Neotropica. Cuatrecasas also participated in a symposium on
geoecology of the mountainous regions of the tropical Americas, held
in Mexico City, and presented a paper on life forms in the paramos.
RESEARCH AND PUBLICATION—BOTANY 89

In addition to continuing his research on the floral anatomy and
evolutionary history of the dogwood family, Richard H. Eyde studied
the floral anatomy of the Brunelliaceae for Cuatrecasas’ monograph.
His studies indicate that there is validity in the viewpoint of taxonomists
who see an evolutionary link between this family, the Cunoniaceae,
and the Rosaceae.

An extensive paper by Conrad V. Morton on the subgenera and
sections of the filmy fern family will serve to counterbalance and correct
a radical and incomplete study on this family published about 30 years
ago which, for want of a more suitable treatment, has been widely and
uncritically adopted. He has also completed studies of other fern groups
and of the Peruvian species of a genus of the African violet family.

Subsequent to his three-month visit to study types and other historical
collections in Western European herbaria and botanical gardens,
Lyman B. Smith continued to refine his monographic study of the
pineapple family, began a cooperative research project with Ayensu,
completed a revision of the bamboos of Santa Catarina, Brazil, super-
vised the preparation of two doctoral dissertations, and supervised the
research of a former Smithsonian pre-doctoral student on the pineapple
family in Ecuador. In January he was voted honorary citizenship by the
City Council of Itajaf, Brazil, for his valuable contributions to the
knowledge of the flora of Santa Catarina.

William L. Stern, who resigned as chairman of the department at the
end of the fiscal year, concluded his research on the comparative
anatomy of the vegetative structures of Columelliaceae, which resulted
in a more natural taxonomic placement of this curious plant family.
Detailed anatomical studies of the leaf node and xylem indicated clearly
that this family is far more primitive than was supposed, and belongs in
the Englerian concept of the Saxifragaceae. This family is usually
treated by modern taxonomists as several families and Stern began
studies of this complex to determine proper familial boundaries employ-
ing the techniques of comparative anatomy.

Excellence in research in systematic botany is associated very closely
with the availability of adequate library resources. Until recent years
the botany department library has been grossly neglected because of
the sparsity of its holdings, the lack of a card catalog, absence of an
organized program of accession, and scattered deposits through the
offices of the department. With the guidance of several members of the
department, Ruth F. Schallert, a professional librarian, with the
dedicated assistance of research associate William A. Archer, has
already made remarkable strides in providing Smithsonian botanists
with the quality library they require. Although still incomplete, the
various parts have been collected, and cataloging is well under way.
90 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967—-MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY

Archer is putting in order and cataloging several hundred collectors?’
field notebooks, some dating from the beginning of the century, con-
taining many important historical and geographical references, as well
as plant observations.

ENTOMOLOGY

This has been a particularly significant year in terms of accomplish-
ments for the department of entomology, including substantial field
explorations, acquisition of important collections, improvement of
curation of the collections, exhibits planning, educational activities,
and the most productive research year since the founding of the
Department.

The progress of current research and curatorial programs, as well as
future goals and the resources to obtain them, were reviewed with an
advisory committee of outstanding entomologists. An excellent report
which has already had significant impact on future planning was
signed by: E. Gorton Linsley, chairman (University of California,
Berkeley), William L. Brown, Jr. (Cornell University), Kenneth W.
Cooper (Dartmouth Medical School), and P. J. Darlington (Harvard
University).

Richard C. Froeschner completed a paper on the Galapagos species
of lacebugs and made substantial progress on an illustrated manual of
the world genera by evaluating morphological characters of 1,800
species in 270 genera. His studies of certain hemipterous families from
Dominica indicates that the Dominican fauna has its principal generic
affinities with Tropical America but that there is considerable isolation
at the species level.

Opposite (top): Turtle Mountains in southern California, visited by Gerald I.
Stage during his seven-week quest in the Colorado and Mojave Deserts for
new information on the behavior of desert bees.

Female melittid bee (center) takes nectar from a blossom of the desert-
sunflower. The long paper tag is used to slow the bee and make it more
conspicuous during flight so the observer has a better chance of tracking it
to its nest.

Male halictid bee (bottom, left) displaying its alert posture while watching
for females from its perch inside a blossom of the ghost flower. Its massive
gaping jaws are used against other males, which frequently intrude.

Hapless honeybee (bottom, right) being devoured by a crab spider that
ambushed it from inside a blossom of rock-nettle.
92 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967—-MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY

Karl V. Krombein, chairman, devoted most of his research time to
getting into print two large publications, one a second supplement of
the catalog of Hymenoptera of America North of Mexico, and the
second, a large volume on the life histories, nests and associates of
the trap-nesting wasps and bees. The latter work is already being
hailed as a modern classic of insect natural history.

Gerald I. Stage joined the entomology staff in November as a
specialist on the systematics and behavior of wild bees. A monograph
of one genus, emphasizing relationships between a phenetic and
phyletic classification and biological data, was nearly complete and
the study of the bees of Dominica was begun.

J. F. Gates Clarke assembled the plates and completed the manuscript
for volume 6 of his monumental study on the Meyrick types of
Microlepidoptera.

Donald R. Davis nearly completed his revision of New World
Carposinidae and he expanded his earlier project on New World
Incurvariinae to include a general world survey at the generic level,
in an attempt to understand more clearly the entire composition of
this group of primitive lepidoptera.

Field investigations in Colombia and Venezuela occupied much of
the year for W. Donald Duckworth in his long-term study of neo-
tropical Stenomidae. He also completed and published several papers
during the year on genera of this family.

The South East Asia Mosquito Project (SEAMP), a cooperative -
venture between the Smithsonian and the Department of the Army, —
continued its investigations of the mosquitoes of this strategically
important area. Various members of the Project staff made trips to
collect materials and to study specimens in other museums. In addition
to publishing individual research papers, SEAMP issued a revision of
its extremely useful ‘‘Preliminary Keys to the Mosquitoes of Vietnam.”

Oliver S. Flint, Jr., completed and published several papers during
the year on the systematics of the larvae and adults of the New World
caddis flies. An extensive field trip to Mexico and Central America
provided much valuable new material for his studies of this family.

Close collaboration between the Smithsonian Institution and the
University of Maryland School of Medicine has continued, with
research associate Robert Traub and a group of scientists studying |
ectoparasites collected in overseas programs on viral and rickettsial
infections. Collections during the year were made in West Pakistan,
Nepal, New Guinea, and Mexico. Taxonomic and ecological research
on fleas and mites laid the basis for selecting areas for intensive micro-
biological investigations.
RESEARCH AND PUBLICATION—INVERTEBRATE ZOOLOGY 93

INVERTEBRATE ZOOLOGY

The reborn emphasis on research as a primary activity of the Museum
and the stimulus provided by the Offices of Systematics and of Oceanog-
raphy and Limnology are reflected in the diverse research programs of
this department and of the numbers and kinds of publications issued
by it during the year. Monographic studies and revisions continue to be
a major interest, although a large portion of the departmental research
program is concerned with more generalized investigations of the
systematics and zoogeography of invertebrates.

Under the impetus of the Antarctic Research Program, sponsored by
the National Science Foundation, investigations of antarctic inverte-
brates continued to be a focal point for many research activities. David
L. Pawson continued his work on antarctic holothurians and echinoids,
and completed charts of the distribution of the species of these groups,
accompanied by an analysis of distribution patterns in relation to
physical environmental factors.

J. L. Barnard continued studies of antarctic amphipods and com-
pleted a review of one genus. Mary Rice initiated studies of the
sipunculid and echiurid worms collected in the Antarctic by the
Eltanin expedition. Clyde F. E. Roper joined the staff in September and
continued his studies of the systematics, biology, and distribution of the
squids. His studies of Bathyteuthis abyssicola, the dominant squid in the
Antarctic, included conclusions on the effect of water depth, oxygen
content, and other oceanographic parameters on distribution and
morphology of this animal.

Studies of tropical organisms have attracted the attention of most
members of the staff, many of whom conducted field expeditions to
acquire new specimens and to observe the environmental conditions
under which they have developed: Raymond B. Manning collaborated
in West Pakistan on a study of the stomatopod crustaceans of West
Pakistan, Mary Rice studied the biology and development of sipunculid
worms in Puerto Rico, and Klaus Ruetzler studied sponges in the
mangrove association in Puerto Rico and Bermuda.

As a result of the study of collections of sharks in the Indian Ocean
and eastern South Pacific, Roger F. Cressey has been able to show that
a correlation exists between adult parasite copepod size and surface
temperature at the collection station. This relationship has been
demonstrated in free-living crustaceans but never before among
parasitic forms. He also continued his study of the phylogeny of
parasitic copepods on elasmobranch and scombroid fishes.

J. L. Barnard spent most of the year as a Smithsonian Fellow in
invertebrate zoology at the Bernice P. Bishop Museum in Honolulu.
94 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967—-MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY

His studies of certain Hawaiian amphipods has shown a significant
affinity between them and the warm-temperate North American
fauna, a unique condition among marine invertebrates. He believes
that this may reflect the abilities of amphipods to drift long distances
on flotsam, as well as the relative isolation of Hawaii in relation to
other shallow-water areas of the tropical Pacific.

Studies on the biology of planktonic organisms have been continued
by Thomas E. Bowman, who focused his attention on the pelagic
decapod crustaceans, and completed a review of the distribution of
Lucifer in the western North Atlantic. He also published the first report
of self-luminescence in a pelagic gammaridean amphipod.

The aim of Mary Rice’s investigations of the development, systematics
and zoogeography of Caribbean sipunculids, carried out in close
cooperation with scientists at the Woods Hole Oceanographic Insti-
tution, is to ascertain the life history of members of several representative
genera. Nothing is presently known of the developmental history of
tropical forms.

The studies on North American crayfishes and their ostracod sym-
bionts by Horton H. Hobbs, Jr., included the preparation of a re-
vision of the genus Procambarus which ranges from Canada to Gua-
temala and Cuba. He has also completed a monograph of the Mexican
and Cuban entocytherids. In collaboration with Perry C. Holt, Virginia
Polytechnic Institute, and Margaret Walton, Mountain Lake Biological
Station, Hobbs completed a study of the crayfishes and their epizootic
associates from the Mountain Lake area. In addition to taxonomic
accounts of these species, the authors included a discussion of the
habitats of the species, population sizes and fluctuations, food habits,
information on origin and distribution in the area, and a summary of
data on elevations and drainage systems.

The freshwater and terrestrial decapod crustaceans of the West
Indies, with special reference to Dominica, have been the subject of a
collaborative study by Fenner A. Chace, Jr., and Horton H. Hobbs,
Jr. Materials were collected by Hobbs in Dominica under the auspices
of the Bredin-Archbold-Smithsonian Biological Survey of Dominica.
The study promises to be the most comprehensive ever made on the
non-marine West Indian decapods.

Studies on ostracods from Hadley Harbor, Massachusetts, by Louis S.
Kornicker led to the discovery of a high incidence of parasitism of one
of the ostracods. Kornicker and Thomas E. Bowman have collaborated
on a study of the host and parasite, both undescribed species. The
incidence of parasitism is very high, with about one in 15 of the adult
ostracods infested. The copepods have developed a_host-deceiving
egg-mimicry, and deposit their eggs in sacs, each with several eggs,
J. L. Barnard, studying
the gammaridean amphi-
pods of the Hawaiian
Islands, here is collecting
amphipods from _ the
algae in an_ intertidal
habitat.

Isaacs-Kidd Midwater
Trawl (right), a high
speed sampler used to
collect pelagic animals,
being used in southern
waters aboard the El-
tanin; most of the speci-
mens of the squid Bathy-
teuthts abyssicola Hoyle
studied by Clyde F. E.
Roper were taken with
this gear.

96 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967—-MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY

and of a size similar to that of the ostracod eggs, in the ostracod brood
chamber.

Using serial sections across the hinge area of representative species of
several genera of myodocopid ostracods, Louis S. Kornicker traced
the origin of the ligament, as well as the relationship of the ligament
to the hinge and the shell. Knowledge of the placement of the ligament
in living ostracods may help those working with fossil species to de-
termine the ligament line, particularly in those forms lacking Recent
species.

Histological examination of the circulatory system of the polychaetous
annelid Magelona, conducted by Meredith L. Jones, confirmed field
observations that there is a heart-like pumping action intrinsic in the
dorsal blood vessel. In addition, earlier observations of unusual seg-
mentally arranged capillary beds were confirmed and a separate series
of segmentally arranged valves in the posterior dorsal vessel was found.

MINERAL SCIENCES

The most significant department-wide event during the year was a
two-day meeting with an advisory committee of eminent specialists
‘in earth sciences—Felix Chayes, chairman (Geophysical Laboratory,
Carnegie Institution of Washington), Clifford Frondel (Harvard
University), Hans Suess (University of California, San Diego), and
William Thurston (U.S. Geological Survey). The truly excellent report
of this committee identified goals for the department and the resources
required to attain them, as well as evaluating present research and
service activities.

Research in meteorites was concentrated on the chemical and minera-
logical composition of stony meteorites; detailed studies, based on a
careful review of the Museum’s collection, were carried out on the most
significant specimens. This broad program, involving some 30 indi-
vidual projects, is being carried forward jointly with other institutions
and universities both in this country and abroad with the support of
grants and contracts from the National Aeronautics and Space Admin-
istration, U.S. Air Force, National Science Foundation, National
Geographic Society, and the Smithsonian Research Foundation.

Several iron meteorites from Campos del Cielo, Argentina, particu-
larly “‘El Taco” which contains large silicate inclusions, are also being
studied in collaboration with scientists from the Max-Planck-Institut
in Germany, the Lamont Geological Observatory, the California
Institute of Technology, the Ames Research Center, and the Carnegie
Institute of Technology.
This meteorite slice, one of the lorgest ever pre-
pored, wos cut from a 4400-pound iron meteorite
recovered in 1963. Several other meteorites and small
craters have been found in the some area.

The dark inclusions are silicates, with varying
mounts of graphite, iron sulfide, and nickel-iron, The
nickel content of the metal is 6.7 percent, os in coarse

_ ectohedrites.

The association of nickeliron with the silicate min-
erals that ore common in stony meteorites may indicote
that iron ond stony meteorites are interrelated ond thot
the types were not completely seporated in the mete-
orites’ porent bodies.

_ This slice, which weighs about 200 pounds, wos cut
at the Max Planck Institut, Mainz, Germany.

In the new hall of meteorites is featured a slice from the two-ton El Taco,
Campo del Cielo, Argentina, meteorite. This specimen is playing a leading
role in a cooperative international research program involving a number of
centers of meteorite research.

An investigation and review of meteoritic pyroxene was completed
under Brian Mason, who also reviewed the pyroxene-plagioclase
chondrites. A new chondrite, ““Rupota,” from Tanzania was studied
in detail especially by Kurt Fredriksson in cooperation with R. O.
Pepin from the University of Minnesota. It was found that this meteor-
ite is a rather typical olivine-hypersthene (L-group) chondrite, and it
is the first of this group which has been shown to contain primoridal
rare gases. This finding contradicts a recent hypothesis that these
meteorites may have come from Mars while the olivine-bronzite
chondrites (H-group) should have originated on the moon. These
projects benefited materially from the excellent chemical analyses
made by Eugene Jarosewich, who also analyzed several mineral
separates, iron meteorites, and terrestrial rocks.

Robert F. Fudali joined the staff at the beginning of the year and has
begun studies of phase equilibria in meteorites at relatively high
temperatures and under controlled oxygen fugacity, as well as diffusion
studies in olivine and in iron meteorites. Rather extensive studies on
recrystallization of chondrites at temperatures in the range of 700°
C. to 1000° C. are also in progress in cooperation with Dr. A. Reid,
University of California.
98 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967—-MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY

Research in petrology during the past year continued to focus on
rocks from the mid-Atlantic Ridge and their use in tracing the develop-
ment of the oceanic crust. These, and other studies, show that the crust
may be viewed as a dynamic product of processes occurring in the
upper mantle. Partial fusion of mantle material evidently has produced
and is’ producing vast quantities of basaltic magma, particularly
beneath the mid-Atlantic Ridge. Eruption and piling up of this material
and emplacement of possibly large basaltic intrusions, some of which
cool sufficiently slowly to become gravity-differentiated, is probably the
dominant manner in which the oceanic crust has formed, particularly
in the undisrupted north-south trending zones of the mid-Atlantic
Ridge, studied by William G. Melson and T. H. Van Andel at latitude
222 N.

At various places the normally undisrupted, north-south trending
mid-Atlantic Ridge is displaced hundreds of kilometers along so-called
“fracture” zones and in these, intrusion of partially serpentinized
peridotite is evidently the major crust-forming process. These intrusions,
based on evidence from studies of samples from St. Peter and St. Paul’s
Rocks by Melson and his colleagues at Woods Hole Oceanographic
Institution, have had a remarkable origin. Evidently, when partial
fusion begins in the sub-oceanic upper mantle, the magma normally is
separated from a refractory, olivine-rich crystalline residua and moves
upward, giving rise to formation of oceanic crust by volcanic eruption
and intrusion, and leaving behind in the mantle a dense, olivine-rich
residua. Beneath the fracture zones, however, the magma and solid
residua evidently become mobilized together as a plastic, low-density,
solid-plus-fluid mass which is rapidly displaced upward and eventually
is emplaced in the oceanic crust and uppermost mantle.

Studies of rocks from island and submarine outcroppings of the mid-
Atlantic Ridge strongly suggest that the oceanic crust will not provide
“primitive”? mantle rocks, that is, mantle-derived rocks which are not
the products of partial fusion or of some other sort of chemical dif-
ferentiation. While oceanic rocks, particularly those from St. Paul’s
Rocks, may not provide examples of ‘“‘primitive” mantle rocks, they
may provide important clues about the details of magma generation in
the mantle, and studies are in the planning stage to focus on this
particular aspect.

During the past few years the theory of sea-floor spreading and
continental drift has received strong support from oceanic geophysical
evidence, especially from magnetic surveys across the midocean ridges.
This theory, long accepted by Southern Hemisphere geologists, is
becoming widely accepted in the Northern Hemisphere for the first
RESEARCH AND PUBLICATION—-PALEOBIOLOGY 99

time. Samples collected by Melson and his colleagues at St. Paul’s
Rocks indicate that this is an exposure of an extremely young intrusion.
Since sea-floor spreading entails constant formation of new oceanic
crust along the mid-Atlantic Ridge—the zone in which rifting and
spreading should occur—the young age of these rocks, which are on the
mid-Atlantic Ridge, is clearly consistent with the theory of sea-floor
spreading and continental drift.

A new manganese iron phosphate mineral, switzerite, was described
by John S. White and Peter B. Leavens from the Foote Mineral Com-
pany Mine, Kings Mountain, North Carolina.

PALEOBIOLOGY

In February, G. Arthur Cooper resigned as chairman of this depart-
ment and was appointed senior paleobiologist in order to devote more
of his time to his study on the Permian brachiopods of the Glass
Mountains in Texas. The manuscript for this joint study with R. E.
Grant is nearly completed and most of the diagrams have been made.
During March and April, Cooper and Grant extended their field
observations of the Permian from the Glass Mountains westward to the
Del Norte Mountains and determined that an extension of some of the
Glass Mountain formations reach into this area.

Research on the morphology, anatomy and taxonomy of early
Devonian land plants was continued by Francis M. Hueber. Research
progress was reported in a paper on the genus Psilophyton and a second
paper is in press. In addition, Hueber conducted field work in eastern
Canada, northern Maine, and Australia during the year.

The monographic study of the crustose coralline algae of the North
Atlantic took Walter H. Adey to the coasts of Iceland and Norway,
where he made extensive collections of living corallines for anatomical
study and, at the same time, he conducted ecological studies of these
poorly known organisms. By the end of the year, he had extended his
shipboard research program as far south along the European coast as
Great Britain.

C. Lewis Gazin, who served as departmental chairman from February
to July, completed a historical review and a statistical analysis of the
Eocene species of the condylarthran mammal Hyopsodus from the view-
point of their morphology, systematics, and paleoecology.

Exceptional three-dimensional preservation of several fossil fish speci-
mens from the Lower Cretaceous of Texas enabled David H. Dunkle
to describe the cranial osteology that is so useful in systematic compari-
son of Late Mesozoic orders of families of teleostean fishes. He also
Off the Florida Keys, Porter M. Kier examines a starfish caught in the act
of preying on a sea urchin in 12 feet of water, and (below) he photographs a
group of long-spined sea urchins at a depth of 85 feet.

RESEARCH AND PUBLICATION—PALEOBIOLOGY 101

continued his compilation of data on the stratigraphic distribution and
correlation of the fish fauna of the Upper Devonian Ohio shales.

A paper on functional morphology of the jaw in Emydops and Lystro-
saurus has been completed for publication by Nicholas Hotton III with
A. W. Crompton of the Peabody Museum at Yale University. Assisted
by his wife Ruth O. Hotton, he is studying the petrology of the Beaufort
sediments of South Africa from the viewpoint of heavy minerals, with
the objective of working out the metamorphic history of the beds.

Clayton E. Ray’s research on Quaternary mammals, primarily
those of the eastern United States, the Antilles, and the Galapagos
Islands, resulted in the completion of a review of the fossil mammals
from Saltville, Virginia, with D. M. Cooper and W. S. Benninghoff.
Another manuscript surveying the mammalian fauna of the Pleistocene
from Ladds, Georgia, was completed in collaboration with paleontolo-
gists at Shorter College at Rome, Georgia.

Research associate Remington Kellogg completed manuscripts on two
new Calvert Miocene whalebone whales, and assembled supplementary
data on a small, previously described Calvert cetothere. He also
prepared a review of the types of Miocene Maryland and Virginia
whalebone whales described by E. D. Cope.

After having served several months as supervisor for the division of
invertebrate paleontology, Porter M. Kier was appointed chairman of
the department, effective July 1, 1967. He has continued his studies of
fossil and living echinoids, and completed a monograph of the fossil
echinoid order Oligopygoida. He undertook research on the evolution
of the Jaw apparatus on both fossil and Recent echinoids, and com-
pleted a preliminary study of the morphology of this apparatus in four
orders. He has also studied sexual dimorphism in fossil echinoids. In
April, for his paper on ‘‘Evolutionary Trends in Paleozoic Echinoids,”’
Kier received the Best Paper Award for 1966 from the Society of
Economic Paleontologists and Mineralogists.

By using morphological comparisons of scar patterns in the valves of
Pleistocene ostracodes of Oklahoma, and Kansas and Nebraska,
Richard H. Benson has been able to identify species which are signifi-
cant to the geological search for ground-water deposits in these States.
These fossil remains of animals, which lived in vaileys and hollows in
the landscape just after glaciation and before the deposit of windblown
silts, help to identify these prehistoric depressions which now serve to
trap water; their presence is difficult to predict without knowledge of
ancient topography. In anticipation of deep-sea drilling and coring of
the sediment of abyssal regions of the ocean basins of the world, Benson
is studying ostracode faunas on a worldwide basis. These microfossils
can be used to date the ages of strata penetrated, and to indicate for
102 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967—-MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY

climatic and hydrologic interpretation the changes in bottom
conditions.

Martin A. Buzas completed a study on the population ecology of
Foraminifera in the Choptank River of eastern Maryland. Three
stations were sampled in replicate for 2 years to determine foraminiferal
densities, with six environmental variables being measured at the same
time; these data are now being analyzed by a multivariate technique.
Another study concerning the special distributions of Foraminifera has
just been completed and further investigations are under way to de-
termine population size and special pattern of these distributions.

A new member of the staff, Alan H. Cheetham, a specialist in post-
Paleozoic Bryozoa, has begun the quantitative sorting, preparation,
study, and photographing of fossil and Recent cheilostome Bryozoans
in a new laboratory established for this purpose. Quantitative and
numerical methods will be used in his study of the taxonomy, functional
morphology, paleoecology, and evolution of distributional patterns in
this group.

The systematics, functional morphology, and evolution of the late
Eocene to Recent genus Metrarabdotos have been studied by Cheetham,
using multivariate analysis and numerical techniques, as well as
anatomy and morphology, in order to interpret what appear to be
major climatic fluctuations during late Tertiary and Quaternary time.
This genus is at present restricted to the Tropics but ranged much
farther north in both the West and East Atlantic during earlier periods
of geologic history. Other similar genera are being studied as part of a
quantitative paleoecological analysis of moundlike structures of
earliest Tertiary age in southern Scandanavia.

As part of a monographic treatment of all Caribbean inoceramids,
Erle G. Kauffman, completed a study of the Jamaican representatives
of the bivalve Inoceramus. This study established a refined Cretaceous
faunal zonation for interisland correlation, as well as the first correla-
tion with zones on the North American continent. Another study, on
the paleoecology of macroinvertebrate assemblages in the Cretaceous
Colorado group, was completed by Kauffman. Considerations of the
distribution of individual faunal elements and community distribution

Evolution in the bryozoan Metrarabdotos: 1, Unusually large colony of the
Recent Metrarabdotos tenue taken at 50 fathoms northeast of Puerto Rico, X 2.
2, well-preserved individuals of an Eocene colony of Metrarabdotos micropora
from southwestern Alabama; the individual at center is modified for brooding
larvae; X 50. 3, Individuals, one with brooding apparatus, of the Recent
species Metrarabdotos unguiculatum taken at 22 fathoms off Accra, Ghana.
103

PALEOBIOLOGY

RESEARCH AND PUBLICATION

|
104 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967—-MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY

were involved in the study, along with the construction of a model
of sedimentation and formal recognition of the marine sedimentary
cycles shown by the rocks of the area.

Kenneth M. Towe completed a study of wall ultrastructure and
cementation in the arenaceous Foraminifera and, in cooperation with
Richard Cifelli, on the wall and problems of calcification in the cal-
careous Foraminifera. In addition, Towe and his associate, G. H.
Hamilton, are completing a paper on the ultrastructure of the macreous
layer in some bivalve mollusks.

As part of a cooperative project between the Smithsonian Institution,
the National Oceanographic Committee of Argentina, and the George
Washington University, J. W. Pierce, in a cruise on board the Environ-
mental Science Services Administration vessel Oceanographer, obtained
65 samples of sediments from the estuary of the Rio de la Plata. These
samples have been analyzed for clay content and trace elements in an
attempt to define the source of the bottom sediments of the estuary.

Sediment dispersal patterns in submarine canyons are in the re-
search interests of Daniel J. Stanley, who mapped ancient canyon de-
posits in the French Maritime Alps and examined bottom profiles in
cores collected in the Gully, the major modern canyon off Nova Scotia.
Interpretation of morphology and sediment distribution of the coast in
the continental shelf off Nova Scotia continues, and the effects of sea-
level changes were examined in the vicinity of Sable Island on the
Bermuda platform. Studies were completed on the color of sediments
on the continental margin off the United States, and of large calcareous
and phosphorite concretions of Miocene age on Georges Bank.

VERTEBRATE ZOOLOGY

Emphasis has been given in the department of vertebrate zoology
to studies dependent on computers and automatic data processing.
This has significance in the area of collection management, but its
most exciting applications have been in systematic and ecological
research. |

The systematics and zoogeography of two Indian Ocean stomiatoid
fishes was the subject of a study recently completed by Robert H.
Gibbs, Jr., with Barbara A. Hurwitz. He has also made considerable
progress on the systematics of the scombroid fishes and in this con-
nection he contributed to the development of plans for a worldwide
cooperative monograph on the family Scombridae with the Food and
Agriculture Organization Working Group on Tuna Taxonomy.

Ernest A. Lachner conducted extensive field observations over the
eastern half of the United States to collect specimens and observe
RESEARCH AND PUBLICATION—VERTEBRATE ZOOLOGY 105

breeding behavior of fishes of the genus Nocomis. With Martin L.
Wiley he completed a study of hybridization among several species.

In addition to studying beach-erosion control on the western shore
of Chesapeake Bay and conducting studies of the biology of sea nettles,
Leonard P. Schultz completed a revision of the serranid genus
Labrinus.

Considerable interest has developed with respect to studies dependent
on computer and automatic-data-processing facilities. James A. Peters
has been very active in the development of computer programs
directly applicable to systematic research in the department and in
the Museum. Through his efforts and the efforts of colleagues, three
teletypes have been installed in the Museum with direct connection
to a distant shared-time computer. Programs have been written which
permit rapid calculation of standard statistical values and Peters is
developing a computer key to the genera of snakes of Latin America.
About 75 percent of the genera have now been included in the key,
which requires less than four seconds to derive a generic name in
response to a series of basic data supplied to the computer. It is possible
that this kind of key will permit rapid sorting and preliminary identifi-
cation of collections by nonprofessional technicians. Peters has also
prepared a set of computer programs for one of the standard textbooks
of biological statistics, making it possible for anyone to utilize any of
the statistical techniques in the book simply by calling up the appro-
priate program from the memory core of the central computer.

Another application of data-proces ing techniques is in the Pacific
Ocean Biological Survey Program under the direction of Philip S.
Humphrey. The data base on sea-bird observation now includes more
than 100,000 observations in the Pacific along with associated
oceanographic and meteorological data.

Stanley H. Weitzman completed papers on the osteology of the
deep-sea stomiatoid fish family Astronesthieae, and on the origin and
relationships of the oceanic fish suborder Stomiatoidei. These are
particularly valuable contributions in that they clarify the evolu-
tionary trends through which primitive teleosts gave rise to more
advanced forms in that group.

Using soft X-ray facilities to reveal skull structure in skins and
skeleton, Richard L. Zusi studied the classification and relationships
of finchlike birds. His work is expected to lead to a better under-
standing of the limits of the cardueline finches and the probable
relationship of the endemic Hawaiian honeycreepers to the carduelines.

During the summer of 1966, with the support of the Smithsonian
Foreign Currency Program and the Naval Medical Research Unit 3
in Cairo, Egypt, George E. Watson began his studies of the migration
106 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967—-MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY

of birds through northeastern Africa. Birds are obtained from Bedouins
near Alexandria and are banded and released or sent to the NAMRU-3
laboratories in Cairo for study. The United Arab Republic granted
permission to band birds in November and more than 5,000 birds
have now been marked with bands bearing code letters and a unique
number.

The Pacific Ocean Biological Survey Program has now banded more
than 1,500,000 birds on islands in the Central Pacific and on the
Pribilofs in the Bering Sea in the study of the migration and movement
of birds in the Pacific Ocean.

Two field groups continued the work of the Smithsonian Venezuelan
project in eastern and southern Venezuela under the direction of
Charles O. Handley, Jr. They collected mammals, their extoparasites,
blood sera, and biological and ecological data. More than twenty
scientists (parasitologists, virologists, serologists, mammalogists, and
ecologists) from six countries are participating in the project which
has the cooperation and support of the Consejo de Bienestar Rural,
Museo de Ciencias Naturales, Universidad Central de Venezuela, and
the Instituto Venezolano de Investigaciones Cientificas in Caracas.
The project is supported by the Office of the Surgeon General, Depart-
ment of the Army, and the Middle America Research Unit.

Grass landing strip at remote Indian village of Belén, in extreme southern
Amazonas Territory, where Charles Handley visited a Smithsonian field
group working on the Venezuelan project (see text, above); Rio Cunucunuma
is on the left, slopes of Cerro Duida on the right.

Below: The Helio Courier plane of Mr. and Mrs. William S. Cowles who
piloted Handley on his 10,000-mile survey of Venezuela, on the landing strip
at Belén; Cerro Huachamacari in the background. Above: Looking up the
Rio Capanaparo near its mouth; lIlanos lie beyond the gallery forest near
the river.

108 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967—-MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY

Through the generosity of Mr. and Mrs. William S. Cowles of
Shelburne, Vermont, who contributed their Helio Courier aircraft
and their time as pilots, it was possible for Handley to make an aerial
ecological survey of Venezuela. In sixteen days of flying, covering
about. 10,000 miles, he studied variations in vegetation and terrain
that might affect the distribution of mammals.

One of the most interesting and significant developments in the
department is the firm establishment of a cooperative program between
Brazilian biologists and counterparts in the Museum of Natural History.
This is the program of Area de Pesquisas Ecologicas do Guama (APEG),
which is administered by the Instituto de Pesquisas de Experimentagao
Agropecuarias do Norte and supported by subventions from the
Smithsonian and a grant from the Army Research Office. The first
annual report includes the information that the Mocambo and main
APEG reserves have been surveyed and subdivided into numbered and
staked quadrates, and basic studies of micrometeorology, soils, vege-
tation, social insects, vertebrates, and epidemiology have been carried
out. Cooperating with Philip S. Humphrey are a number of institutions
and individuals in Brazil. The most active people are Drs. Domiciano
Dias, Fernando Novaes, John P. Woodall, and Murga Pires.

Henry W. Setzer, in addition to his field program for the collection
of African mammals and their ectoparasites, continued the develop-
ment of the “Smithsonian Institution Preliminary Identification Man-
ual for African Mammals.” Sections were completed and distributed
on Rodentia: Sciuridae, Cetacea, Proboscidea, and Perissodactyla.
Additional manuscripts are in hand and will be issued shortly.

Dr. Roberto Donoso-Barros of the Universidad de Chile, Santiago,
has been working with James A. Peters in the preparation of a manual
of neo-tropical squamata. This project, as well as the African mammal
manual, is an approved Smithsonian project for the International
Biological Program.

Se
The Collections
CARE AND CONSERVATION — GIFTS AND ADDITIONS

Anthropology

The processing laboratory, established in 1965 to catalog, accession,
and store archeological and ethnological collections, added to its tasks
the processing of physical anthropology materials. By streamlining
some of the operations, and by assigning museum specialists and
technicians to tasks heretofore performed by the curatorial staff, the
large backlog of uncataloged and unaccessioned collections is being
drastically reduced. The assignment of a full-time secretary familiar
with accessioning, loan, and other procedures has also increased the
efficiency of the Laboratory.

In reworking the China, Philippine, and Northwest Coast eth-
nological materials the collection data have been rechecked and the
specimens stored in a tribal and regional classification system. Special
storage racks for Asian musical instruments and Pacific Island weapons
were designed and constructed, and plans are under way for adding
special storage racks for spears and paddles.

The conservation and restoration laboratory processed almost 2,000
specimens during the year; the nearly 50 percent increase in volume
is Owing in part to special new conservation and restoration processes
being carried out on a wide variety of materials. Museum technician
Bethune M. Gibson experimented with various chemical reagents
to remove stains from Greek pottery, tested various dessication pre-
ventatives, and tried various kinds of waxes for the treatment of wood
surfaces to prevent atmospheric changes in temperature and humidity
which cause warping and cracking. One of the most important projects
completed by the laboratory was the cleaning and restoring of the
Museum’s very valuable Northwest Coast ethnological collections,
consisting of approximately 670 pieces, such as wood and bone carvings,
model boats, wooden masks and dishes, and totem poles.

The anthropology archives, under the management of Margaret
C. Blaker, continues to serve the needs of anthropology by answering
large numbers of inquiries and requests for photographs and reproduc-
tions of anthropological manuscripts. Construction had begun on
new quarters for the archives in the Museum of Natural History.

109
Portion of an Attic red figured kylix (cup) before and after cleaning in the
anthropology conservation laboratory.

THE COLLECTIONS—BOTANY 1 i)

A gift of archeological materials from the Spiro Mound in Oklahoma
was made by Richard K. Meyer of Peoria, Illinois. Among the most
important items in this large private collection are some 100 engraved
conch shells, four human and two animal effigy pipes of stone, five
finely carved and remarkably preserved wood effigies, copper beads,
ear spools, and hair ornaments. The Spiro Mound contained numerous
burials accompanied by elaborate ritual objects reflecting the complex
religious systems which characterized the Southeastern United States
in late prehistoric times. The objects also reveal the skilled craftsman-
ship and economic wealth of the Oklahoma Indians.

Unusually rich documentation of a collection of 150 Moroccan ethno-
graphic specimens presented by Mrs. Elizabeth Bailey Wills of Bain-
bridge Island, Washington, made it especially valuable for research
purposes.

Lawrence H. Robbins donated an assortment of household equipment
from members of the Turkana tribe, who lived near the western shores
of Lake Rudolph in Northern Kenya. The collection is especially
valuable because of the rarity of such materials and it will be extremely
useful for comparative studies. Robbins also excavated some mesolithic
skeletons in the same area, and these have been sent by Richard Leakey
to the division of physical anthropology for repair and analysis.

Additions to the collections of physical anthropology include ten
careful portraits of presumed unmixed Carib Indians, a Peruvian skull
willed by Mrs. Clara Thompson; and two Caribbean skeletons of
considerable interest. Both of these are Negro slave skeletons with
tooth mutilation typical of that practied in Cameroon and South-
eastern Africa. One is on deposit from the Government of Grenada,
West Indies, and the other is from St. Croix, Virgin Islands, given by
Lieutenant Commander J. J. Wachtel.

Botany

The National Herbarium has historically concentrated on developing
collections from the New World, but there is also a recognized need
for representation of plants from the Old World. In the past year
several significant additions of specimens from Australia and Papua
were received through the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial
Research Organization, Canberra, Australia, as well as Indonesian
plants from the Herbarium Bogoriense, a valuable collection of ferns
from remote parts of Thailand sent through Japan’s Kyoto University,
and several large collections of African grasses from the Royal Botanic
Gardens, Kew, England.

Additions to the New World collections included a large set of
critically selected United States and Mexican plants from Stanford
Thomas R. Soderstrom (left) and Reginald J. Sayre examine clumps of
grasses for exhibit in new hall of plant life.

Grasses, and the li-
chens being inspected
by Richard S. Cowan
(left), were obtained
by botany — exhibits
expedition to _ the
Colombian paramos
in fall 1966, led by
Soderstrom.

THE COLLECTIONS—ENTOMOLOGY , ts

University, a set of specimens collected in the Brazilian planalto by
Howard S. Irwin of the New York Botanical Garden, and a large
collection of specimens from the Brazilian state of Santa Catarina made
by Padre Raulino Reitz, a collaborator with Lyman B. Smith on the
flora of that state.

Staff additions to the collections included specimens from the West
Indian island of Dominica made by William L. Stern and Dieter
Wasshausen, the Colombian wood collections made by José
Cuatrecasas, and Panamanian wood collections made by Stern and
Richard H. Eyde. Noteworthy cryptogamic collections continued to
arrive, including a large lot of algae received from Isabella Abbott
of Stanford University, moss specimens from the Rijksmuseum in
Leyden, and a collection of lichens’ from the western and southern
United States, from Mason Hale.

Specialists on the grass family will be pleased to find the grass
herbarium rearranged with the genera in alphabetical sequence.
Previously they had been arranged by tribes and “phylogenetically”
within the tribes. In addition, several thousand sheets which have been
in storage will shortly become available to researchers.

Through Dr. Chester Benjamin, 122 used metal herbarium cases were
transferred to the herbarium from the national fungus collections at
Beltsville, Maryland. The new storage space permitted the expansion
of a large block of flowering plant families so that they are more easily
used without risk of breakage.

The collections were used by a large number of visiting scientists
from the United States as well as from elsewhere in the world. Inter-
national visitors included Syo Kurokawa, National Science Museum,
Tokyo, who studied lichen collections for seven months; Brother
Alain Liogier, Manhattan College, who studied herbarium specimens
in preparation for his fieldwork on the Island of Hispaniola; Armando
Dugand, Barranquilla, Colombia, who completed his term as a Guggen-
heim Fellow working on the Catalpa family and on the flora of semiarid
northern Colombia; and Julian Gonzales Patifio (Brother Daniel),
Rector of the Colegio de San José, Medellin, Colombia, who continued
his investigations of the medicinal plants of Colombia and the flora
of the Departmento de Antioquia.

Entomology

The addition to the staff of two museum technicians, Marc Roth
and Ronald Faycik, permitted a small reduction in the enormous
backlog of insect specimens awaiting processing. Gloria House sorted
to family more than 270,000 specimens of Coleoptera from Bolivia.
114 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967—-MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY

The addition of Glenn Taylor as a preparator of Hemiptera and of
Gerald I. Stage as a specialist on Hymenoptera resulted in substantially
reducing the large accumulation of unmounted, unlabeled, and un-
sorted specimens of these orders, as well as their rearrangement for
use by the staff and by visiting researchers.

W. H. Rowe prepared, labeled, and sorted for distribution more
than 36,000 specimens of Lepidoptera, sorted to family 190 museum
drawers of butterflies, and assisted in arranging over 600 species of
arctiid moths for photographing. William D. Field completed about
75 percent of the task of reclassifying and rearranging the collections
of Indo-Australian Papilionidae.

Mrs. Sophie G. Lutterlough, with Ralph Crabill, restored, relabeled,
and rehoused great numbers of dried specimens of Myriapoda, in-
cluding many unsuspected type specimens.

Preparator Nancy Heath transferred the collection of papered Neo-
tropical Odonata to new transparent plastic envelopes; previously
these had been stored in any convenient container, resulting in a
collection almost impossible to arrange or to use. In addition, she
mounted and labelled more than 25,000 specimens, sorted and dis-
tributed over 150,000, and carried forward reference work toward a
catalog of Neotropical Trichoptera.

Under a grant from the National Science Foundation, Mrs. Phyllis
Spangler pinned, dissected genitalia, labeled, and sorted to genus
10,500 aquatic beetles and recorded data from 9,000 identified speci-
mens of the genus Tropisternus; she also completed cataloging one
family and made considerable progress on cataloging three others,
as well as rearranging the entire collection of aquatic beetles.

The entomological collections continued to grow through gifts
from generous donors, through field collections by staff members,
by purchase, and by exchange of critical specimens with corresponding
scientists and other museums.

Almost 40,000 Neotropical beetles were accessioned, of which more
than half were obtained by purchase. Among the notable donations or
exchanges were some 7,500 collected by O. S. Flint, Jr., in Mexico
and Central America; over 4,000 Brazilian beetles from M. Alvarenga;
more than 500 aquatic beetles from the British Museum (Natural
History), including critically important type material; and 23 paratypes
from R. Mouchamps, Belgium. J. F. G. Clarke contributed more than
3,000 specimens from Ceylon and Sarawak; P. J. Spangler, nearly
9,000 from the United States; D. Owens, nearly 6,000 from Mississippi;
A. Blanchard, 4,400 from Texas; and L. O. Warren, over 1,000 from
Arkansas.
THE COLLECTIONS—INVERTEBRATE ZOOLOGY 15

A very generous gift of more than 88,000 Irish Hymenoptera,
donated by A. W. Stelfox of Newcastle, County Down, is the first
important acquisition of this group from the British Isles. Its value is
greatly enhanced by the inclusion of holotypes of species described
by Stelfox and of topotypic material from areas in which Haliday
described numerous new species and genera.

G. E. Ball enriched the collections of Myriapoda and Arachnida
by donating more than 1,300 specimens of Mexican chilopods; through
his efforts over a number of years, the national collections now have
the finest extant collection of Mexican centipedes. O. S. Flint, Jr.,
working in the Antarctic, collected some 22,000 mites and 109,000
Collembola and Mallophaga.

As in previous years, Museum entomologists and U.S. Department
of Agriculture colleagues were active in the Bredin-Archbold-Smith-
sonian Biological Survey of Dominica in the West Indies. Through the
efforts of O. S. Flint, Jr., A. B. Gurney, and R. J. Gagne, more than
22,000 specimens from that Island were added to the collections.

The Department of Agriculture transferred 59,056 specimens of
insects and their allies to the Smithsonian, of which a number were
of more than ordinary interest or value. They represented the choicest
materials submitted to USDA and Museum specialists for identifica-
tion and many represented species not previously in the national
collections. Others were reared series consisting of immature and adult
stages.

The collections were also enriched by the addition of thousands of
mounted and labeled insects collected through Department of Agri-
culture contracts with several universities and individuals, and USDA
preparators sorted, mounted, and labeled many additional specimens.

In addition to the use of the collections by the research staff of the
Museum and the USDA, the collections were studied by nearly 400
visiting scientists from universities and other museums in the United
States and abroad.

Invertebrate Zoology

The diversity and extent of the Museum’s holdings of invertebrate
animals, other than insects, is reflected in the large number of investi-
gatois who visited the department of invertebrate zoology during the
past year. More than 170 visitors, including graduate students and
established researchers as well, from the United States and numerous
foreign countries utilized the collections. Crustaceans, echinoderms,
and mollusks were most attractive, because of their good systematic
and geographic representation.
Kjell B. Sandved, photographer for the Office of Exhibits, photographs living
planktonic organisms aboard the Woods Hole Research Vessel, Aélantis II.
More than a thousand color transparencies were made as reference materials
for the hall of ocean life.

Among the more significant additions to the crustacean collection
during the year was the gift of an extensive collection of North Ameri-
can freshwater amphipods accumulated over many years by Leslie
Hubricht of Meridian, Mississippi. Also significant were a series of
more than 34,000 ostracods from Texas, collected by L. S. Kornicker
of the Museum staff; approximately 70,000 specimens of brackish
water and marine mollusks from Louisiana, received from the estate
of the late Percy Viosca, Jr.; and a collection of almost 25,000 marine
mollusks from Polynesia, acquired as a result of Harald A. Rehder’s
field study there.

In curatorial work, largely handled by a capable supportive staff,
particular attention was paid to organizing the collections, reducing
the backlog of unidentified and uncataloged holdings, and cataloging
and filing, so that specimens and data were more readily available to
the staff and to visitors as well. The Smith-Corona-Marchant Type-
tronic machine, a partially automated typing system equipped with a
microtypewriter, as well as a standard one, proved to be very effective
in reducing cataloging time. With the machine, the specimen labels,
in microtype, and all necessary data cards can be filled out in one
operation. The machine, acquired last year, was put into full-time
operation this year with the addition of a cataloger.

THE COLLECTIONS—MINERAL SCIENCES 117

Mineral Sciences

Cataloging of the meteorites and minerals in the Carl Bosch collection
continued through the year. Of the 587 specimens representing 305
different meteorites, 24 were of particular importance to the collection
because they were not previously represented. Specimens of 80 to 90
other meteorites constituted important additions to the collection and
the remaining specimens added much needed depth. The addition of
28,000 specimens of minerals from this collection represents a 20 per-
cent increase in the total holdings of such materials; a large increment
like this will require two to three years to integrate into the national
collections. Already the Bosch collection has provided much valuable
research material.

Two important freshly fallen meteorites were obtained and made
available to researchers in several laboratories studying shortlived
radioisotopes. The Barwell, England, chondrite was obtained through
the cooperation of the British Museum (Natural History). The St.
Severin, France, amphoterite was obtained from Jacques Labeyrie,
of the Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique, with the coopera-
tion of the U.S. Atomic Energy Commission. A specimen from the
largest individual meteorite known, the Hoba, Southwest Africa,
meteorite, was obtained through the cooperation of the Smithsonian
Astrophysical Observatory. Other important specimens of meteorites
obtained were the Nakhom Pathom, Thailand, meteorite; the Essebi,
Congo, carbonaceous chondrite; and the Faucett, Missouri, and
Social Circle, Georgia, meteorites.

Among many important gifts by individual donors to the mineral and
gem collection were a 265-carat, complexly twinned group of diamond
crystals, by J. M. Wachtler; a set of 22 colored, irradiated diamonds,
by Theodore and Irwin Moed, Inc.; and a white jade teapot of the
Chien Lung period, by Mrs. Mildred Taber Keally.

Through exchange many fine specimens were added, such as the
largest and finest known crystal of kunzite, from a recent discovery in
Brazil; a large and beautiful group of smoky quartz crystals from
Goscheneralp, Switzerland; a specimen, with extraordinarily large
crystals, of uvarovite garnet from Outokumpu, Finland; and a 911-carat
aquamarine, and a 172-carat tourmaline, both from Brazil.

The collections were also enriched by the purchase of a very fine
group of morganite crystal from the White Queen Mine, San Diego
County, California; excellent specimens of apatite, wolfamite, and
arsenopyrite from Panesqueria, Portugal; a very fine 178-carat mor-
ganite from California; and an unusually good specimen of sphene
from a new occurrence at Capelinha, Brazil.
118 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967—MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY

Other important additions were an outstanding series of eclogites
from diamond-bearing kimberlite pipes, obtained as a result of George
Switzer’s trip to Africa last year; several described suites of rocks from
the U.S. Geological Survey; and additional samples of oceanographic
rocks, mainly from the mid-Atlantic Ridge.

A pilot program for automatic information retrieval was begun on
data attached to the rock collections, in order to answer the increasing
demands by outside researchers for information on described specimens.

Paleobiology

The task of getting the fossil plant collections into usable condition
continued with cleaning and sorting of specimens from the Tertiary
and Pennsylvanian, checking of type specimens of Tertiary plants
against the published literature and catalog data, and the reorganiza-
tion of the collections in systematic order.

Holotype specimens of the fossil fern Jtopsidema vancleaver and the
coniferous tree root Araucariorhiza joae were received as a transfer from
the Museum of the Petrified Forest National Park, Arizona. Professor
J. Harlan Johnson of the Colorado School of Mines added other type
specimens by his gift of four slides containing three primary and seven
secondary types of fossil algae from the Mississippian of Alberta.
Sixteen polished slabs of well-preserved petrified wood from Washing-
ton, Oregon, and Nevada were prepared for use in the new exhibit
planned for the paleobotanical section in the hall of fossils, with support
of the Roland W. Brown fund.

Near completion of covered storage racks now permits proper care
and arrangement of the many rather large specimens of vertebrate
fossils. This facility permits large slabs of fossil fish, portions of dinosaur
skeletons and the collection of Oligocene titanothere skulls, many of
which had been on display and a number of which are type specimens,
to be arranged in accessible, protected storage.

Teeth of Pleistocene mammoths and mastodons, and remains of
Pleistocene walrus from as far south as New Jersey, were among the
interesting collections of vertebrate fossils recovered by dredging opera-
tions near the Atlantic seaboard. Some of these were contributed by
private individuals but several came to the Institution from the Depart-
ment of the Interior’s Bureau of Commercial Fisheries.

Some exceptionally fine specimens of vertebrate fossils, to be featured
in the hall of Pleistocene vertebrates, include a composite skeleton of
the mammoth Mammuthus primigenius from frozen deposits near Fair-
banks, Alaska, and several fine specimens of glyptodonts from the early
Pleistocene of Arizona; these specimens were obtained from the Frick
Laboratories at the American Museum of Natural History either on

THE COLLECTIONS—PALEOBIOLOGY 119

open exchange or as a gift. Another outstanding acquisition, also to be
featured in the Pleistocene exhibit, is a skeleton of the extinct ground
sloth Megalonyx. from Blackstone Cave near Gate City, Virginia, which
was purchased through the Walcott fund.

Among the several specimens of marine mammals obtained during
the year, principally from the Miocene beds in the Maryland-Virginia
region, is an unusually good representation of a fossil whale (cetothere)
from the Choptank Formation along the Potomac River in Westmore-
land County, Virginia. The collection of this specimen, featured in one
of the Smithsonian Institution television programs, was accomplished
by Albert C. Myrick, Jr., of the vertebrate paleontology laboratory,
Charles F. Buddenhagen of the U.S. Geological Survey, and William B.
Sonntag of the Smithsonian buildings management department.

Curatorial activities related to the collections of invertebrate fossils
have been mainly involved with type specimens, of which more than
4,000 were processed during the year. Each type has been checked
against published literature, labeled, recorded, and placed in systematic
order in the collections. The first chapter of the catalog of type speci-
mens of invertebrate fossils was completed by Louis Purnell, and work is
progressing on subsequent chapters that will ultimately result in a
complete catalog of the Museum’s invertebrate types.

Using funds from the Walcott bequest, Richard A. Robison collected
more than 5,000 invertebrate fossils of Early Ordovician age in the
vicinity of Nochixtlan in southern Mexico. This collection is of partic-
ular significance because faunas of unquestioned early Paleozoic age
were unknown from rocks south of the northern border states of Mexico.
The trilobites studied thus far are a mixture of genera containing ele-
ments that have been reported from Asia, North America, South
America, and Europe, a situation which will make the collection of
great importance in making intercontinental correlations.

The Walcott bequest also enabled Erle G. Kauffman to make a col-
lection of 20,000 specimens from the Mesozoic of Jamaica and the
Cretaceous of the Western Interior. These collections, together with
the existing one, constitute the largest and best-documented Mesozoic
faunal representation in the Western Hemisphere.

Other noteworthy additions to the collections were more than 50,000
sorted and labeled specimens of mollusks from the Tertiary of Maryland
and Virginia, from Charles Buddenhagen; many lots of type specimens
from the U.S. Geological Survey, including a collection of more than
4,500 smaller foraminifera types; and a collection of several thousand
identified specimens of cheilostome Bryozoa representing species of
Cretaceous through Recent age from all over the world, donated by
Alan Cheetham, who recently joined the Museum staff.
120  sMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967—MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY

Museum technician Albert C. Myrick, Jr., packaging in plaster and gauze
for transport to the museum the skull and jaws of a cetotheriid whale from
Miocene strata along the lower Potomac River at Westmoreland State Park,
Virginia. Below: Skeleton of the extinct peccary Platygonus compressus from
glacial deposits near Mosherville, Pennsylvania, presented to Smithsonian by
Troy Community Junior High School and mounted for exhibition by museum
technician Gladwyn B. Sullivan (U.S. Geological Survey photo).

Ps
~ a
é

THE COLLECTIONS—-VERTEBRATE ZOOLOGY 121

Cataloging the backlog of sediment samples accumulated over the
years has absorbed most of the curatorial effort of the division of sedi-
mentology. Using the cataloging system of the National Oceanographic
Data Center the samples are being recorded so that collation of a speci-
men in the collections can be made with the analytical data stored in the
Data Center for that sample.

Scripps Institution of Oceanography donated to the Institution all
their cores and samples from the Gulf of Mexico and Gulf of California;
the Marine Mineral Technology Center of the Bureau of Mines trans-
ferred more than a hundred samples from Monterey and Carmel Bays,
California; and the Coast and Geodetic Survey transferred more than a
hundred samples from Narragansett Bay, Rhode Island.

Vertebrate Zoology

Collection management of bird specimens was streamlined by
use of a Typetronic machine on which the operator simultaneously
types the data on a label and generates punched-paper tape, which is
then used to prepare additional labels and a permanent museum
catalog page with no further manual labor. The tape is also available
for incorporation into a Smithsonian-wide, automatic-data-processing
system. George Watson has finished preliminary format and coding for
the labels and catalog pages, and all curators are actively working on a
definitive species list of birds of the world for use in processing the data.
All new specimens will be cataloged by this system and it is anticipated
that the entire seabird collection will soon be incorporated.

The seabird skin collection is growing in importance. New dis-
tributional records were incorporated, based on specimens from the
central Pacific Ocean, Atlantic Ocean, western South America, and
Macquarie Island. Large general collections of bird skins also came
from North and South America, the Aegean Islands, Kenya, Rhodesia,
Bechuanaland, and New Guinea. During the year 25 species and four
genera new to the collections were added.

The bird skeleton collection was improved by the addition of storage
space, additional work surfaces, and new boxes designed to facilitate
the use of the specimens and at the same time reduce the possibility of
breakage of delicate skeletons. An index collection of skeletal elements
of most avian families has facilitated identification of fossil and arche-
ological material by visiting investigators. The anatomical collection
of birds also continued its rapid growth with the addition of spirit
specimens from the West Indies, Venezuela, Egypt, and the Pacific
Ocean.
122 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967—-MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY

Museum technician Edgar N. Gramblin positioning fishes (groupers) under
x-ray with a range of approximately 30 to 115 kilovolts. This machine is
used in the study of large fish specimens. Another, ranging from about 5
kilovolts upward, is used in the examination of small, delicate specimens.

In an extensive program of improving the condition of the collections
of fishes, the result of an energetic program of activity by the museum
aides in the division of fishes, specimens in the small evaporation-prone
ground-glass jars are being transferred to more secure clamp-top jars,
and large collections of fishes previously unsorted and unidentified
have been integrated into the regular collection.

The collection of fish specimens grew considerably by the addition of
approximately 5,000 specimens from the Peru-Chile Trench through
the efforts of Robert H. Gibbs and Bruce B. Collette; about 10,000
specimens from the Great Barrier Reef collected by Victor G. Springer;
approximately 2,000 fish specimens from Brazil received from J. S.
Dendy, Auburn University; 10,000 specimens from the southeastern
United States donated by Frank J. Schwartz, Chespeake Biological
Laboratory; and nearly 10,000 specimens from Lebanon, given by
Carl J. George, American University of Beirut.

Outstanding accessions of reptiles and amphibians include 417 collec-
tions from the South Pacific made by Robert M. Roecker; nearly 240
specimens of lizards from the Pacific Islands, collected by personnel of
the Pacific Ocean Biological Survey; 640 specimens of reptiles and
SPECIMENS IN THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS 123

amphibians from Senegal and Gambia, collected by the Smithsonian
African Mammal Project; over a hundred specimens of ring-neck
snakes from the southeastern United States, collected by Bernard
Martof; and 152 specimens of reptiles and amphibians collected in
Venezuela by the Smithsonian Venezuelan Project.

SPECIMENS IN THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS MAY 31, 1967

ANTHROPOLOGY. . . Perret Ty Aue a Le. De eek” SP SLOI 720
Cultural Ratiropslosy: Sah on Ee ee 973, 891
Physical “hy aia Set tk re nee 37, 829
BoTANY . .-. Mae eB ty Mari ee cy et os he Pai WO OOS Teo
BES neromar PE as oe oa ns om els ey OER FOO
JE{SCHDE oc) yalehs acne les al gees a a aa 259, 247
CEEEGES iy G0 SG Seas ee 398, 957
“OUTST TREES aS, Be on ell ae a 539, 207
2 AE ANTS a ee ee 46, 579
ENTOMOLOGY... . ee ha ree SOOT OOO
(Former Division of Tact fetal! 1963 2S SON TONG TE SSIS)
(divisional totals are shown from this date)
ENCOPICE AML ers ote o) LIS REN yoy 392, 806
PRETOMLCR A Apt ay is rs Pals. Late! 2 Co Matte 384, 799
Mepidaptera en S20 2 aS 319, 126
Myriapoda and Recetas Tair ely doll tes es’ Le Pe 431, 229
IN CHEODLCTOIOS Got, fe a os ew nol See holy Se ah ay ee 327, 617
INVERTEBRATE RZOOLOGYI ison) Le oes ce rcs omen aber ce oe 2344161
CTUSLACcarenR et eee ay ks ba ee ee OS Pe leae 1, 540, 700
Woe) Gh ae Le Goce Se Me ee 659, 395
EChiN OGELINS meee eee? <A Src, Sard eee, 85, 198
Nirolluskswraemeonicns Sis 5 «Sodas, Sool ea cone Se LO O58: 888
VINE RAI SCIENCE S@HEyES | Sirs acai socts, og a, So aes oo oe lear 433, 820
RAT CR ALON mR oe a hal ade a eee 124, 097
INIEtCOnitesamet ernst) eae cntccte St ee ee eee 10, 602
CLEOIOON EEE 55508! tS sis ele ule 5 een a ws 299/121
PALEOBIOLOGY .. . Te ON “oR es Mme ho. Me ka. ot Le ates
Invertebrate Baleaatcleny.. rg REY Fe eae Seat SOTO
Wertebrate Paleontology:—<.. 2.0. - . =. ss). 49, 561
PALCODOLANWARPER Aut 2s ile ee hee, EO, 4, 601
DECMENTOLOR Wa at 5.0/3: bablewaeens, 1s 2 Sag he pee 1, 908
SREB RATE (ZOOLOGVIG a Sow. es yale) sf aly, ds Ne ee, - 25 91S, 212
Mammals S02 ieee tee ls el Sete ee 352, 890
Binds 2 Deis ieee ec. A ae ae 525, 011
Reptiles and Arestabians SE eee ere et hd Ce 169, 862
BiShestP yak eee chor aal cunt ER aoe asta 1, 870, 449

ToraLt NaturaL History COLLECTIONS. ....... =... Sl, 224, 353
124 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967—-MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY

SPECIMEN TRANSACTIONS—FISCAL YEAR 1967

Accessions Trans- _—_ Lent for
(transac- ferred to study to
tions) Exchanged other Gov- investigators
1967 Received with other ernment and other Specimens
Departments (new) on loan institutions agencies institutions identified
Anthropology . . 129 440 109 0) 215963 2, 410
Botany’, .. ahs. 323 4,431 41, 986 295 42, 240 9, 850
Entomology . . . 472 5, 637 1, 826 OF 19254 26, 648
Invertebrate
Zoology... . 529 1, 796 1, 184 0) 125435 27, 427
Mineral Sciences . 331 27 1, 623 126 734 BHU
Paleobiology . . 160 1, 349 362 0 107,318 49, 337
Vertebrate Zool-
OCyi ts orem. 170 3, 508 1, 078 0 13, 885 33, 804
TOTAL “Yoe:: 2,114 17,188 48, 168 421 390,682 149, 987

The new meteorite hall was opened in December 1966. Wall cases contain
descriptive and systematic exhibits. A Moon model is suspended from the
ceiling, and a recorded talk discusses lunar features and their origins.

init ia

TEKTITE
IM

Exhibits

The hall depicting the peoples of Africa neared completion during
the year. A life group illustrating the making of poisoned arrows,
bows, and ostrich-egg shell-beads by Bushmen of the northern Kalahari
was essentially completed; a second life group depicting a domestic
scene among the Hereros of southwest Africa, which will be displayed
in a hut-shaped exhibit case, neared completion. The hall will be
opened officially in the next fiscal year.

The planning and writing of scripts for the future hall of Old World
archeology made progress, with Mrs. Elly Dubinsky preparing exhibit
units for the Greco-Roman alcove under the supervision of Gus W.
Van Beek.

In June an exhibition of Tunisian Mosaics was opened for public
exhibition. This display, which had wide showing in Europe, will be
exhibited in. eleven museums of the United States and Canada in the
next two years under the auspices of the Smithsonian Traveling
Exhibition Service. Gus Van Beek arranged for the Washington
exhibition, worked with designer Dorothy Guthrie in planning it, and
assisted SITES in reviewing and editing the catalog.

Two additions to the hall of physical anthropology, both dealing
with cultural modifications of the human body, were made under the
direction of T. Dale Stewart. One of these is a central glass case
containing examples of mummifications, drying, and fat saponification
of complete human bodies. The other is a large oil painting by New
York artist Alton Tobey showing some of the more dramatic body
alterations usually undertaken for aesthetic reasons—such as deformed
heads and feet, patterns of tattooing and scarification, stretched necks,
and pierced ears.

Planning for the future hall of plant life was advanced by a field
expedition to Colombia under the leadership of botanist Thomas R.
Soderstrom, accompanied by Paul Marchand, master model-maker
from the Science Museum in Buffalo; artist Jay Matternes; Smith-
sonian photographer Kjell Sandved; and Smithsonian exhibits spe-
cialist Reginald J. Sayre. Marchand made molds and models of
plants from living specimens; Matternes set up his easel on the
mountainside where the chilling winds and frequent rain made his

125
126 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967

STATUE OF JAPANESE
STATESMAN REPATRIATED

In 1858 Baron Naosuké Ii, the first
prime minister of modern Japan, con-
cluded a treaty of friendship with the
first United States minister to Japan.
Townsend Harris. Two years later
Prime Minister Ii was assassinated by
opponents of his foreign policy as he was
leaving the imperial palace grounds in
Tokyo. ‘Today Prime Minister Ii is greatly
honored in Japan as a courageous man
who upheld a liberal and wise national
policy at the cost of his life. Had it not
been for his penetrating foresight and
his resolute stand in opposition to popular
opinion, Japan might have adhered
much longer to the tradition of isolation
which that nation had shared with the
rest of the Orient.

A life-size wooden statue of Prime Min-
ister Ii, sculpted by Sekka Shima, was
exhibited at the World’s Columbian
Exposition at Chicago in 1893 and then
presented to the Smithsonian Institu-
tion. There it remained in the Museum
of Natural History until the late summer
of 1966 when it was decided that this
statue should be returned to Ii’s home-
land. About this same time Roger
Pineau, of the Smithsonian Institution
Press, received naval orders to temporary
active duty to assist Admiral Samuel
Eliot Morison with historical research in
Japan. It seemed propitious to ask
Admiral Morison—who is a member of
the Smithsonian Journal of History board—
to represent Secretary Ripley in the
return of the statue, and the Navy
Department arranged for its transpor-
tation.

With the help of Mr. Walter Nichols,
the American cultural attaché in Tokyo,
the statue was returned to Baron Ii’s
birthplace at Hikone in Omi Province.

MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY—EXHIBITS 127

job extremely difficult; Sandved photographed more than 3,000 views
of the high Andes, as well as many close-up photographs of the plants;
and Sayre prepared for shipment back to the Museum plants that
included dried grasses, the woody parts of shrubs, and many specimens
preserved whole in formalin. The five-paneled panoramic view of the
paramos made by Matternes will be used to prepare the background
painting of the life group in the Museum. The photographs made
by Sandved will be used in an automatic projection system which will

accompany the exhibit.
Insects and related groups will be presented in a future exhibit

hall tentatively titled ‘““The World of Insects and Their Allies.” Pre-
liminary discussions of the departmental staff determined that the
underlying theme of the hall will be ecological, and planning was
begun in December. Writer Peter Farb, as consultant, will act as
liaison between the departmental staff and the Office of Exhibits in
developing the hall outline and the eventual exhibit scripts. Joseph
Shannon is the designer.

Two new permanent exhibits were opened in the hall of life in the
sea. The first of these demonstrates the variety of reproductive mechan-
isms in marine invertebrates, while the second shows various examples
of parental care among the marine animals. The case on reproduction
has been used as the basis of a tour guide produced as a cooperative
effort between the District of Columbia public schools, the Smith-

The ancient castle and grounds of the Ii family—as well as the modern mu-
seum in which the statue now stands (left, above)—are maintained as an
important cultural property.

The presentation took place on 16 November 1966 in the Hikone Public Hall,
where the statue was, accepted by Mayor Naoyoshi Ii, great grandson of
Prime Minister li. The ceremony was attended by John L. Stegmaier, U.S.
Consul-General for the Kobe-Osaka area, and Mr. Walter Nichols.

The remarks of Admiral Morison and Mayor Ii were covered by Japanese
press and television. After a tea and flower ceremony Mayor Ii took his
visitors on a tour of the castle and museum, and hosted a dinner for them at
the family estate.

Mayor li—who was first shown this statue of his forebear in May 1954 at
the Smithsonian (left) by Remington Kellogg, then Director, United States
National Museum—is a leading authority on crustaceans. His recent Fauna
Japonica Mysidae (Crustacea) is an outstanding contribution to the carcinological
literature.
128 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967

sonian’s Office of Education and Training, and the Museum of Natural
History’s department of invertebrate zoology. It is intended that this
experimental tour guide provide the necessary background information
for making, a class trip to the Museum truly significant.

The new hall of meteorites was opened in December. With scripts
prepared by the curatorial staff of the division of meteorites and
exhibit design by Dorothy Guthrie, it features displays illustrating
phenomena of the fall of meteorites, their systematic classification, and
their scientific study. A tektite exhibit and a large globe illustrating the
moon’s surface were also included. One display is centered around a
section of the El Taco meteorite, a large individual from the Campo
del Cielo meteorite area in Argentina. Four sections were obtained
by the Smithsonian of this 4,400-pound specimen which has been the
object of study in Germany, Argentina, and many laboratories in this
country.

Nine exhibits units have been installed in the introductory section
of the physical geology hall. Noteworthy among these is a six-foot-
diameter relief globe depicting the geology of the earth, and a mural
by Pierre Meonde which illustrates one theory of the evolution of the
solar system. Work on this hall is under the overall direction of Paul
E. Desautels with the assistance on scripts of other members of the
department and of the department of paleohiology; design is by
Dorothy Guthrie.

Work has progressed on the dioramas depicting vertebrate life of
the Mesozoic era with the completion of the background painting by
Jay Matternes for the Triassic period. The Jurassic and Cretaceous
dioramas have been received from the contractor and now require only
the background painting. Models for a fourth diorama, illustrating
marine vertebrate life during the Cretaceous, have been approved. At
completion, the four dioramas will be viewed on the balcony of the
dinosaur hall.

Construction of the new hall depicting vertebrate life during the
Pleistocene has been completed this year and certain of the skeletons,
such as the giant Panamanian sloth, three mastodons, and the Hager-
man group of horses, have been installed. Mounting of several skeletons
has been completed and several others have been remounted in
different poses.

The first part of the hall on cold-blooded vertebrates was opened
during the year, and an excellent reproduction in the form of a life
group depicting a niche in the Everglades environment is a feature
attraction. This section also includes exhibits on amphibians and
reptiles, intended to give a rather full picture of the total biology of
these animals—their anatomy, ecology, and behavior.

Staff Publications

ANTHROPOLOGY

ANGEL, J. LAwRENCE. Porotic hyperostosis, anemias, malarias and
marshes in the prehistoric Eastern Mediterranean. Science (Au-
gust 12, 1966), vol. 153, pp. 760-763.

Human skeletal remains at Karatas. Amer. Journ. Archaeol.

(July 1966), vol. 70, pp. 255-257.

Early skeletons from Tranquillity, California. Smithsonian

Contributions to Anthropology, vol. 2, no. 1, pp. 1-19, 1966.

Effects of human biological factors in development of civili-
zation. Amer. Phil. Soc. Yearbook, 1966, pp. 315-317, 1967.
Cor, MicuaeELt D., and FLAaNNerRy, Kent V. Early cultures and
human ecology in south coastal Guatemala. Smithsonian Contri-

butions to Anthropology, vol. 3, 1967.

Cotuins, Henry B. Foreword (as Chairman of Directing Committee)
to vol. 13, Arctic bibliography, pp. v-vi. 1967.

Introduction. In J. L. Giddings, Ancient men of the Arctic,

pp. xix-xxxi. Alfred A. Knopf, 1967.

. John Reed Swanton. Jn Encyclopedia of the social sciences,

edit. David L. Sills. 1967.

Long, long ago. Chapter zm Birds in our lives, edit. Arnold
Nelson and Alfred Stefferud, pp.-276-283. U.S. Dept. of the In-
terior, Fish and Wildlife Service. 1966.

Crocker, WILLIAM H., and Sorenson, E. R. Canela Pebye Festival
Rites: northern Brazil, 1957. Research Cinema Film 57-CRO-1.
In Archives for the Study of Child Growth and Development in
Primitive Cultures, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Md.,
1966. (Abstract im Pediatrics (January 1966), vol. 37, no. 1, pt. 2,
B25)

Canela Corn, Pepgahak and We’te Festival Rites; northern

Brazil, 1958. Research Cinema Film 58-—CRO-1. Jn Archives for

the Study of Child Growth and Development in Primitive Cultures,

National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Md., 1966. (Abstract zn

Pediatrics (January 1966), vol. 37, no. 1, pt. 2, pp. 231-2.)

129
130 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967—-MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY

Canela Pep-gahak Festival Rites; northern Brazil, 1958.
Research Cinema Film 58-CRO-2. Jn Archives for the Study of
Child Growth and Development in Primitive Cultures, National
Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Md., 1966. (Abstract zn Pediatrics
(January 1966), vol. 37, no. 1, pt. 2, p. 232.)

———. Canela Ear Piercing and Khetuaye Festival Rites; northern
Brazil, 1959. Research Cinema Film 59-CRO-1. Jn Archives for
the Study of Child Growth and Development in Primitive Cultures,
National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Md., 1966. (Abstract zn
Pediatrics (January 1966), vol. 37, no. 1, pt. 2, p. 232.)

EvaANs, CLIFFORD. Introdugao. Jn Programa Nacional de Pesquisas
Arqueolégicas; Resultados Preliminares do Primeiro Ano, 1965—
66, Museu Paraense Emilio Goeldi, Publicagdes Avulsas no. 6,
pp. 7-13, Belém, 1967.

———., and Meccers, Betty J. Mesoamerica and Ecuador. Chap-
ter 12 im vol. 4 (Archaeological frontiers and external connections),
Handbook of Middle American Indians, pp. 243-264, 26 figs.
University of Texas Press, 1966.

, and Meccers, Betty J. Transpacific origin of Valdivia phase
pottery on coastal Ecuador. Actas y Memorias, XXXVI Congreso
Internacional de Americanistas, Espafia, 1964, vol. 1, pp. 63-67,
3 figs. Seville, 1966.

Ewers, JOHN C. Fact and fiction in the documentary art of the
American West. Chapter zm The frontier re-examined, edit. John
Francis McDermott, pp. 79-95, plates 1-16. Urbana, Illinois:
University of Illinois Press, 1967.

———. Foreword (pp. vii-x) to Two leggings, the making of a Crow
warrior, by Peter Nabakov. New York: Thomas Y. Crowell
Company, 1967.

———. Blackfoot raiding for horses and scalps. Chapter in Law and
warfare: studies in the anthropology of conflict, edit. Paul Bohan-
nan, pp. 327-344. American Museum Sourcebooks in Anthro-
pology. Garden City, New York: The Natural History Press, 1967.

———. Was there a Northwestern Plains sub-culture? An ethno-
graphical appraisal. Piains Anthropologist (Spring 1967), pp.
167-174.

FLANNERY, Kent V. The postglacial ‘‘readaptation” as viewed from
Mesoamerica. American Antiquity, vol. 31, pp. 800-805, 1966.

LAUGHLIN, RoBert M. Oficio de Tinieblas: Como el Zinacanteco
adivina sus suefios. Jn Los Zinacantecos; un pueblo de los altos de
Chiapas, edit. Evon Z. Vogt, pp. 396-413. 1966.

MANVILLE, RicHarRD H., and SruRTEVANT, WILLIAM C. Early speci-
mens of the eastern wolf Canis lupus lycaon. Chesapeake Science,
vol. 7, no. 4, pp. 218-220, 1966.

*)

PUBLICATIONS—-ANTHROPOLOGY 131

Meccers, Betty J. Environmental limitation on the development of
culture [complete reprint]. Zn Human ecology: Collected read-
ings, edit. Jack B. Bresler, pp. 120-145. Reading, Massachusetts:
Addison-Wesley, 1966.

Environmental limitations on the development of culture

[condensation]. Jn Society today and tomorrow: Readings in

social science, edit. Elgin F. Hunt and Jules Karlin, 2d ed., pp.

69-74. New York: Macmillan, 1967.

Considerag6es Gerais. Jn Programa Nacional de Pesquisas

Arqueolégicas: Resultados Preliminares do Primeiro Ano, 1965-66.

Museu Paraense Emilio Goeldi, Publicagdes Avulsas no. 6, pp.

153-158, Belem, 1967.

‘‘Did Japanese fishermen bring the art of pottery making to

Ecuador 5,000 years ago?” ~The Unesco Courier (May 1967), vol.

20;;new5, pp? 12-15.

, and Evans, Cuirrorp. Beginnings of food production in
Ecuador. Actas y Memorias XXXVI Congreso Internacional de
Americanistas, Espafia, 1964, vol. 1, pp. 201-207. Seville, 1966.

, and Evans, Cuirrorp. A transpacific contact in 3000 B.C.
[Japanese translation of article in Scientific American, vol. 214,
no. 1, pp. 28-35, 1966]. Japan-America Forum, vol. 12,
no. 6, pp. 44-57, 1966.

MeEtTCcALF, Georce. A Green River knife and sheath from the Southern
Plains. Museum of the Fur Trade Quarterly (Summer 1966), vol.
2; no. 2, pp. 4—6.

Archeology: Western Hemisphere. Jn The Americana An-

nual, pp. 69-70. New York, 1966.

Archeology: Western Hemisphere. Jn The Americana An-

nual, pp. 66-67. New York, 1967.

, and Frannery, Kent V. An Olmec “‘Were-Jaguar” from the
Yucatan Peninsula. American Antiquity (January 1967), vol. 32,
nol ypp: 109-11.

Mor TEnsEN, Peper, and FLANNERY, Kent V. En af verden’s aeldste
landsbyer [The world’s first farmers]. Nationalmuseets Arbejds-
mark, 1966, pp. 85-96. Copenhagen: Danish National Museum,
1966.

OrtNER, Donatp J. A recent occurrence of an African type tooth
mutilation in Florida. Amer. Jour. Phys. Anthrop., vol. 25, pp.
177-180, 1966.

Stewart, T. Date. Chronometric dating and taxonomic relation-
ships. Jn Time and stratigraphy in the evolution of man, Nat.
Acad. Sci. — Nat. Res. Council, publ. 1469, pp. 17-21. Washing-
ton, 1967.

[32 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967—-MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY

STURTEVANT, WILLIAM C. Seminole men’s clothing. Proceedings of
the 1966 Annual Spring Meeting of the American Ethnological
Society, pp. 160-174, 1967.

Scalping. Encyclopaedia Britannica, vol. 19, p. 1135, 1967.

WEDEL, WALDO R. The council circles of central Kansas: Were they
solstice registers: American Antiquity (January 1967), vol. 32,
no. 1, pp. 54-63, 1967.

Salvage archeology in the Missouri River Basin. Science, vol.
156, no: 3775, pp. 587-597, 1967.

Woopbpsury, RicHarp B. Village agriculture toward the peripheries—
the North American Southwest. Actas y Memorias, XXXVI
Congreso Internacional de Americanistas, Espana, 1964, vol. 1,
pp. 219-228. Seville, 1966.

BOTANY

AYENSU, EDwarpD S. Aerosol OT solution—An effective softener of
herbarium specimens for anatomical study. Stain Technol., vol.
42, NOr 35, pp. -lo9—130, 1967.

Cowan, R. S. Rutaceae of the Guayana Highland. Mem. N.Y.
Bot. Gard., vol. 14, pt. 3, pp. 1-14, April 1967.

Candolleodendron, a new genus of the Leguminosae (Caesal-
pinioideae). Rhodora, vol. 68, no. 776, pp. 429-432, October-—
December 1966.

CuaTREcasas, Jost. Banisteriopsis caapi, B. inebrians, B. rusbyana;
description et clef de determination. Journ. d’Agric. Trop. et
Bot. Appl., vol. 12, pp. 22-24, December 1965.

Estudios sobre plantas andianas, X. Caldasia, vol. 10, no.
46) pps3—20. 1967.

CuLBERSON, W. L., and HALE, Mason E., Jr. The range of Norman-
dina pulchella in North America. Bryologist, vol. 69, no. 3, pp.
365-367, 1966.

Dawson, E. YALE. Marine algae in the vicinity of Puerto Pefiasco,
Sonora, Mexico. Gulf of California Field Guide Series no. 1,
57 pp. Tucson: Univ. Arizona Press, 1966.

———. The cacti of California. California Natural History Guides;
18, 64 pp. Berkeley and Los Angeles: Univ. California Press, 1966.

New records of marine algae from the Gulf of California.

Journ. Arizona Acad. Sci., vol. 4, no. 2, pp. 55-66, 1966.

, AND NeEusHuL, M. New records of marine algae from Anacapa

Island, California. Nova Hedwigia, vol. 12, nos. 1 and 2, pp.

173-187, 1966.

PUBLICATIONS—BOTANY 133

Ernst, WALLAcE R. The floral morphology and systematics of
Platystemon and its allies Hesperomecon and Meconella (Papaveraceae:
Platystemonoideae). Univ. Kansas Sci. Bull., vol. 47, no. 2, pp.
25-70, March 1967.

, and THompson, H. J. Proposal to conserve the generic name
Eucnida Zuccarini, 1844, against Microsperma W. J. Hooker, 1839
(both Loasaceae). Taxon, vol. 16, no. 1, pp. 77, 78, February
1967.

Eype, RicHARD H. Systematic anatomy of the flower and fruit of
Corokia. Amer. Journ. Bot., vol. 53, no. 8, pp. 833-847, September
1966.

; Nico.tson, DAN H.; and SHERWIN, PRiscILLA. A survey of the

floral anatomy in Araceae. Amer. Journ. Bot., vol. 54, no. 4,

pp. 478-497, April 1967.

, AND TEERI, JAMES A. Floral anatomy of Rhezia virginica.
Rhodora, vol. 69, no. 778, pp. 163-178, April-June 1967.

FosBerc, F. R. Systematic notes on Micronesian plants. 2. Phy-
tologia, vol. 13, pp. 233-241, 1966.

Scirpus americanus Persoon (Cyperaceae) in Costa Rica.

Sida, vol. 2, pp. 347-348, 1966.

Studies in American Rubiaceae 1. New and noteworthy

Costa Rican species. Sida, vol. 2, pp. 386-389, 1966.

Restoration of lost and degraded habitats. Jn Future envi-

ronments of North America, edit. F. Fraser Darling and J. P.

Milton, pp. 503-515. Natural History Press, 1966.

The oceanic volcanic island ecosystem. Jn The Galapagos,

edit. R. I. Bowman, pp. 55-61. Univ. of Calif. Press, 1966.

The correct name of the horseradish [Cruciferae]. Baileya,

vol. 14, p. 60, 1966.

Vascular plants. Jn Atlas for bioecology studies in Hawaii

Volcanoes National Park, edit. M. S. Doty and D. Mueller-

Dombois, pp. 153-238. Univ. of Hawaii, Hawaii Bot. Sci. Paper,

vol. 2, 1966.

Critical notes on Pacific Island plants. Micronesica, vol. 2,

pp. 143-152, 1966.

Concluding remarks (of symposium). Jn Scientific problems

of the Humid Tropical Zone deltas and their implications (Pro-

ceedings of the Dacca Symposium jointly organized by the Govern-

ment of Pakistan and UNESCO, February 24 to March 2, 1964),

pp. 409-419. UNESCO (France), 1966.

Vegetation as a geological agent in tropical deltas. Jn Scien-

tific problems of the Humid Tropical Zone deltas and their impli-

cations (Proceedings of the Dacca Symposium jointly organized
by the Government of Pakistan and UNESCO, February 24 to

March 2, 1964), pp. 227-233. UNESCO (France), 1966.

134 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967—-MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY

, and Kiawe, W. L. Preliminary list of plants from Cocos
Island. Jn The Galapagos, edit. R. I. Bowman. Univ. of Calif.
Press, 1966.

, and Sacuet, M. H. Lebronnecia, gen. nov. (Malvaceae)

des Iles Marquises. Adansonia, vol. 6, pp. 507-510, 1966.

, and Sacuet, M. H. Plants of southeastern Polynesia. Mi-
cronesica, vol. 2, pp. 153-159, 1966.

Hare, Mason E., Jr. Chemistry and evolution in lichens. Israel
Journ. Bot., vol. 15, pp. 150-157, 1966.

, and CuLserson, W. L. A third checklist of the lichens of
the continental United States and Canada. Bryologist, vol. 69,
no. 2, pp. 141-182, 1966.

LELLINGER, Davw B. Nephopterts, a new genus of ferns from Colom-
bia. Amer. Fern Journ., vol. 56, no. 4, pp. 180-182, December
1966.

Morton, ConraD V. Gesneriaceae. Jn J. A. Steyermark and Getulio
Agostini, Exploracién botanica del Cerro Patao y zonas adyacentes
a Puerto Hierro, en la Peninsula de Paria, Edo. Sucre. Acta
Bot. Venez., vol. 1, no. 2, pp. 65-74, May 1966.

The validity of the generic name Ctenopteris. Amer. Fern

Journ., vol. 56, no. 2, pp. 65-68, July 1966.

The use of climbing fern, Lygodium, in weaving. Amer. Fern

Journ., vol. 56, no. 2, pp. 79-81, July 1966.

The Mexican species of Tectarta. Amer. Fern Journ., vol. 56,

no. 3, pp. 120-1377 October 966:

Apospory in Pteris. Amer. Fern Journ., vol. 56, no. 3, pp.

139, 140, October 1966.

A new name for a Mexican grass. Leafl. West. Bot., vol. 10,

no. 16, p. 327, November 1966.

. Some new combinations in Thelypteris. Amer. Fern Journ.,

vol. 56, no. 4, pp. 177-179, December 1966.

Is Thelypterts parasitica in cultivation in the United States?

Amer. Fern Jorun., vol. 56, no. 4, pp. 184, 185, December 1966.

Dipteris [nomen conservandum propositum]. Taxon, vol.

16, no. 1, pp. 71,72, February 1967.

A proposal to conserve the generic name Banisteria H. B. K.

Taxon, vol. 16, no. 1, pp. 74-76, February 1967.

Ceratopteris thalictroides, a fern new to Texas. Amer. Fern

Journ., vol. 57, no. 1, pp. 13, 14, March 1967.

The valid publication of Cheilanthes villosa. Amer. Fern

Journ., vol. 57, no. 1, pp. 33-35, March 1967.

, and CuatTrecasas, José. Proposal to conserve the generic
name Thryallis Mart. Taxon, vol. 16, no. 1, pp. 76, 77, February

1967.

PUBLICATIONS—BOTANY 135

, and LELuincER, Davw B. The Polypodiaceae subfamily
Asplenioideae in Venezuela. Mem. N.Y. Bot. Gard., vol. 15,
no. 1, pp. 1-49, June 1966.

Nicotson, Dan H. Filarum, a new genus of Peruvian Araceae.
Brittonia, vol. 18, no. 4, pp. 347-349, 1966.

REED, CLYDE F., and Rosinson, Haroitp E. Some bryophytes from
the highlands of Mexico. Phytologia, vol. 14, no. 4, pp. 193-204,
1967.

Rosinson, Harotp E. A revision of the neotropical genus Symbolza
(Diptera; Dolichopodidae). Ann. Ent. Soc. Amer., vol. 59, no. 3,
pp. 489-496, 1966.

A new species of Calyxochaetus from Mexico (Diptera, Doli-

chopodidae). Proc. Ent. Soc. Washington, vol. 68, no. 3,

p.. 272; 1966.

Preliminary studies on the bryophytes of Colombia. Bry-
ologist, vol. 70, no. 1, pp. 1-61, 1967.

, and REED, CLypE F. The status of the moss genus Hetero-
plyllium. Bryologist, vol. 69, no. 3, pp. 317-323, 1966.

SHETLER, STANWYN G. Meeting of Flora of North America Committee.
Taxon, vol. 15, no. 7, pp. 255-257, September 1966.

, and MatrHews, JAMEes F. Generic position of Campanula
americana L. [abstract]. ASB Bull., vol. 14, no. 2, p. 40, April 1967.

SmitH, LyMAN B. Notes on Bromeliaceae, XXIV. Phytologia, vol. 13,
no. 7, pp. 454-465, October 1966.

Dyckia marnier-lapostollec. Bromel. Soc. Bull., vol. 16, no. 5,

pp. 102, 103, September—October 1966.

Greigia, subfamily Bromelioideae. Bromeliana (Greater New

York Chapt. Bromel. Soc.), vol. 3, no. 7, pp. 30-34, October 1966.

Tillandsia subgenus Diaphoranthema. Bromeliana (Greater

New York Chapt. Bromel. Soc.), vol. 3, no. 9, pp. 46-53, December

1966.

Bromeliads in European gardens. Bromeliana (Greater New
York Chapt. Bromel. Soc.), vol. 4, no. 1, pp. 2-4, January 1967.
Margaret Mee. Bromel. Soc. Bull., vol. 17, no. 1, pp. 11-14,
January-February 1967.
Bromeliaceae of the Guayana Highland. Mem. N.Y. Bot.
Gard., vol. 14, pt. 3, pp. 15-68, April 1967.

Notes on Bromeliaceae, XXV. Phytologia, vol. 14, no. 8,
pp. 457-491, May 1967.
, and Downs, RosBert J. Xiridaceas novas ou criticas do
Brasil. Arquiv. Bot. Estado Sdo Paulo, vol. 4, fasc. 2, pp. 25-31,
December 1966.
, and Downs, Ropert J. Solanaceas. Jn Flora ilustrada
Catarinese, pt. 1, fasc. SOLA, pp. 1-321, December 1966.

136 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967—-MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY

, and Smiru, RutH C. Itinerary of William John Burchell in
Brazil, 1825-1830. Phytologia, vol. 14, no. 8, pp. 492-506,
May 1967.

STERN, WiELIAM L. Index xylariorum. Institutional wood collections
of the world. Regnum Vegetabile, vol. 49, pp. 1-36, May 1967.

THompPson, HARRY J., and Ernst, WALLACE R. Floral biology and
systematics of Eucinide (Loasaceae). Journ. Arnold Arb., vol. 48,
no. 1, pp. 56-88, January 1967.

WurRDACK, JOHN J. Melastomataceae. Jn J. A. Steyermark and
Getulio Agostini. Exploraciédn botanica del Cerro Patao y zonas
adyacentes a Puerto Hierro, en la Peninsula de Paria, Edo. Sucre.
Acta Bot. Venez., vol. 1, no. 2, pp. 55-58, May 1966.

Passifloraceae. In J. A. Steyermark and _ collaborators.
Botanical novelties in the region of Sierra de Lema, Estado Bolivar,
Venezuela—III. Bol. Soc. Venezolana Cienc. Nat., vol. 26, no.
110, pp. 429-431, June 1966.

———., Certamen Melastomataceis XI. Phytologia, vol. 14, no. 5,
pp. 65-80, February 1967.

ENTOMOLOGY

Bram, R. A. Classification of Culex subgenus Culex in the New World
(Diptera: Culicidae). Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., vol. 120, no. 3557,
122 pp., 33 figs., 2 tables, 1967.

———, and RATTANARITHIKUL, M. Six new species of the Culex
(Lophoceraomyia) mammilifer group from Thailand. (Diptera:
Culicidae). Proc. Ent. Soc. Washington, vol. 69, pp. 1-17, 1967.

CarRtTwriGHT, O. L. A new species of Ceratophyus found in California.,
Bur. Ent., California Dept. Agric., Occasional Papers, no. 9
pp. 3-7, 1966.

CiarkE, J. F. Gates. Neotropical Microlepidoptera, XIV. Chilean
Microlepidoptera described by Emilio Blanchard. Proc. U.S. Nat.
Mus., vol. 122, no. 3591, 8 pp., 5 figs., 1967.

Davis, D. R. A revision of the moths of the subfamily Prodoxinae
(Lepidoptera: Incurvariidae). U.S. Nat. Mus. Bull. 255, 170 pp.,
155 figs., 1967.

Detrinabo, M. D. Two undescribed species of Uranotaenia from the
Philippines (Diptera: Culicidae). Journ. Med. Ent. vol. 3, no. 1,
pp- 30-37, 1966.

Drake, Cart J. A new species of lacebug from China (Hemiptera:
Tingidae). Proc. Biol. Soc. Washington, vol. 79, pp. 135-138,
August 1966.

PUBLICATIONS—ENTOMOLOGY 137

, and FROESCHNER, RicHARD C. Lace bugs of the Galapagos
Archipelago (Hemiptera: Tingidae). Proc. Ent. Soc. Washington,
vol. 69, pp. 82-91, March 1967.

DuckworTH, W. D. Neotropical Microlepidoptera, X. Two taxa
erroneously placed in the family Stenomidae. Proc. U.S. Nat.
Mus., vol. 119, no. 3540, 6 pp., 1 pl., 2 figs., 1966.

. New synonymy and new assignments in Western Hemisphere

Stenomidae (Lepidoptera: Gelechioidea). Proc. Ent. Soc.

Washington, vol. 68, pp. 195-198, 1966.

Neotropical Microlepidoptera, XII. Further studies on

genus Lethata (Lepidoptera: Stenomidae). Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus.,

vol. 122, no. 3585, 38 pp., 3 pls., 10 maps, 38 figs., 1967.

Neotropical Microlepidoptera, XIII. Review of genus

Loxotoma (Lepidoptera: Stenomidae). Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus.,

vol. 122, no. 3590, 8 pp., 1 pl., 1 map, 9 figs., 1967.

. A new species of Atteva from Central America (Lepidoptera:
Yponomeutidae). Proc. Ent. Soc. Washington, vol. 69, pp. 69-72,
1967.

Emerson, K. C. A new species of Mallophaga (Ischnocera: Degeeriella)
from the Caracara. Proc. Biol. Soc. Washington, vol. 79, pp. 21-24,
1966.

Mallophaga of the mammals of Panama. Jn Wenzel and
Tipton, Ectoparasites of Panama, pp. 267-272, Field Mus. Nat.
Hist. publ. 1010, 1966.

New species and records of Rallicola (Mallophaga: Philop-

teridae) from New Guinea. Journ. Med. Ent., vol. 3, pp. 336-337,

1966.

, and Price, R. D. A new génus and two new species of Isch-
nocera occurring on frogmouths (Podargidae). Proc. Ent. Soc.
Washington, vol. 68, pp. 224-227, 1966.

———., and Price, R. D. A new species of Parafelicola (Mallophaga:
Trichodectidae) from the small-spotted genet. Proc. Biol. Soc.
Washington, vol. 79, pp. 231-233, 1966.

, and Strojanovicu, C. J. A new species of Mallophaga from
the water mongoose. Journ. Kansas Ent. Soc., vol. 39, pp. 313-315,
1966.

FreLtp, W. D. Preliminary revision of butterflies of the genus Calycopis
Scudder (Lycaenidae: Theclinae). Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., vol.
119, no. 3552, 48 pp., 126 figs., 1967.

Funt, Otiver S., Jr. On the identity of Clymene aegerfasciella
Chambers (Trichoptera: Hydroptilidae). Proc. Ent. Soc. Washing-
ton, vol. 68, p. 135, 1966.

138 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967—-MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY

A new Sisyra from Israel. Proc. Ent. Soc. Washington, vol.

68, pp. 183-184, 1966.

Studies of Neotropical caddis flies, III. Types of some species

described by Ulmer and Brauer. Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., vol. 120,

no. 3559, 20 pp., 1967.

Studies of Neotropical caddis flies, II. Trichoptera collected

by Prof. Dr. J. lies in the Chilean subregion. Beitr. Neotrop.

Fauna, vol. 5, pp. 45-68, 1967.

. Trichoptera from Israel. Ent. News, vol. 78, pp. 73-77, 1967.

. A new synonym in the Trichoptera. Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash-
ington, vol. 69, p. 55, 1967.

FROESCHNER, RICHARD C. Synonymy of a West Indian spittlebug,
deleting the genus Clovia from the Americas (Homoptera: Cercop-
idae). Proc. Ent. Soc. Washington, vol. 68, no. 3, p. 270, Sep-
tember 1966.

[Obituary] Carl John Drake, 1885-1965. Ann. Ent. Soc.

Amer., vol. 59, No. 5, pp. 1028-1029, September 1966.

Two new species of the Australian genus Blaena with notes
on previously described species (Hemiptera: Cydnidae). Journ.
Kansas Ent. Soc., vol. 39, no. 4, pp. 690-694, October 1966.

HoocstraalL, H., and Traus, R. The fleas (Siphonaptera) of Egypt.
Host-parasite relationships of rodents of the families Spalacidae,
Muridae, Gliridae, Dipodidae, and Hystricidae. Journ. Egyptian
Publ. Health Assoc., vol. 40, pp. 343-379, 1965.

———, and Traus, R. The fleas (Siphonaptera) of Egypt. Host-
parasite relationships of Carnivora. Journ. Egyptian Publ. Health
Assoc., vol. 41, pp: 75-91, 1966.

KAUFMANN, T., and TRAuB, R. Preliminary notes on parthenogenesis
in a species of trombiculid mite, Leptotrombidium arenicola Traub,
1960 (Acarina: Trombiculidae). Journ. Med. Ent., vol. 3, pp.
256-258, 1966.

KRoMBEIN, Kari V. Trap-nesting wasps and bees: Life histories,
nests, and associates. vi+570 pp., 29 pls., 36 tables. Smithsonian
Institution Press, 1967.

———. Second supplement, Hymenoptera of America north of
Mexico—synoptic catalog. U.S. Dept. Agr., Agr. Monogr. 2,
584 pp., 1967. [Krombein is senior editor of entire volume,
and author of pp. 305-343, 374-520.]

———. [Review] The comparative ethology and evolution of the
sand wasps, by Howard E. Evans. Bull. Ent. Soc. Amer., vol. 13,
pp. 74-75, 1967.

———. A. W. Stelfox collection of Irish Hymenoptera donated to
Smithsonian Institution. The Irish Naturalists’ Journ., vol. 15,
pp: 298-299" 1967.

PUBLICATIONS—-ENTOMOLOGY 139

MuesesBeck, C. F. W. Three new southeastern parasitic Hymenop-
tera. Florida Ent., vol. 50, no. 1, pp. 57-61, March 1967.

———. Agathis metzneriae Muesebeck, new species (Hymenoptera:
Braconidae: Agathidinae) Jn Juhala, Ann. Ent. Soc. Amer., vol.
60, no. 1, pp. 95-96, January 1967.

Braconidae, Pelecinoidea, and [with L. Masner] Proctotru-
poidea. Jn Krombein, Second supplement, Hymenoptera of
America north of Mexico—synoptic catalog. U.S. Dept. Agr.,
Agr. Monogr. 2, pp. 27-60, 285-305, 1967.

NADCHATRAM, M., and Traus, R. A new species of Trombicula s.s.
(Acarina: Trombiculidae) from the Indo-Pakistan subcontinent.
Journ. Med. Ent., vol. 3, pp. 46-48, 1966.

Price, R. D., and Emerson, K. C. The genus Kelerimenopon Conci
with the description of a new subgenus and six new species (Mallo-
phaga: Menoponidae). Pacific Insects, vol. 8, pp. 349-362, 1966.

, and Emerson, K. C. New synonymies within the bird lice
(Mallophaga). Journ. Kansas Ent. Soc., vol. 39, pp. 430-433, 1966.

ScANLON, J. E., and Peyton, E. L. Anopheles (Anopheles) tigertti, a new
member of the aztkenii group from Thailand (Diptera: Culicidae).
Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., vol. 69, no. 1, pp. 18-25, 1967.

, and Peyton, E. L. Illustrated key to the female Anopheles
mosquitoes of Thailand. U.S. Army Medical Component, Southeast
Asia Treaty Organization, Bangkok. 49 pp., 1966.

SPANGLER, Paut J. Changes in nomenclature and reassignment of
Platydessus perforatus (Coleoptera: Dytiscidae). Coleopt. Bull., vol.
20ne. 2) pp. 57-58, 1 fig.; 1966.

A new cryptic species of Cymbiodyta from the midwestern
U.S. (Coleoptera: Hydrophilidae). Ent. News, vol. 77, no. 8,
pp. 211-216, 7 figs., 1966.

——. A description of the larva of Derallus rudis Sharp (Coleoptera:
Hydrophilidae). Coleopt. Bull., vol. 20, no. 4, pp. 97-103, 12
figs., 1966.

The Catherwood Foundation Peruvian-Amazon Expedition.

XIII-Aquatic Coleoptera (Dytiscidae; Noteridae; Gyrinidae;

Hydrophilidae; Dascillidae; Heloidae; Psephenidae; Elmidae).

Monogr. Acad. Nat. Sci. Philadelphia, no. 14, pp. 377-443, 129

figs., 1966.

A new Brazilian Berosus and a description of the female of

B. spectatus D’Orchymont (Coleoptera: Hydrophilidae). Proc.

Ent. Soc. Washington, vol. 69, no. 1, pp. 64-69, 22 figs., 1967.

A new species of Derovatellus from Peru (Coleoptera: Dytisci-

dae). Journ. Kansas Ent. Soc., vol. 40, no. 2, pp. 142-145, 3

figs., 1967.

140 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967—-MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY

TrauB, R., and BARRERA, A. New species of Ctenophthalmus from.
Mexico, with notes on the ctenidia of shrew-fleas (Siphonaptera)
as examples of convergent evolution. Journ. Med. Ent., vol. 3,
pp. 127-145, 1966.

, and LaxsHana, P. Some chiggers of the subgenus Lepto-

trombidium from Thailand, with description of new species (Acarina:

Trombiculidae). Journ. Med. Ent., vol. 3, pp. 271-292, 1966.

, and NApDcHATRAM, M. Notes on chiggers of the genus Micro-
trombicula Ewing, 1950 (Acarina: Trombiculidae) from Pakistan
and India, with descriptions of five new species. Journ. Med.
Ent., vol. 4, pp. 305-321, 1966.

; WISSEMAN, C.; and Nur AuMaApD. The occurrence of scrub
typhus infection in unusual habitats in West Pakistan. Trans.
Roy. Soc. Trop. Med. & Hyg., vol. 61, pp. 23-57, 1967.

VERCAMMEN-GRANDJEAN, P. H.; NADCHATRAM, M.; and TRaus, R.
Descriptions of two new and unusual chiggers from West Pakistan
(Acarina: Trombiculidae). Acaralogia, vol. 8, pp. 450-455, 1966

INVERTEBRATE ZOOLOGY

BARNARD, J. LAURENS. Benthic Amphipoda of Monterey Bay, Cali-
fornia. Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., vol. 119, no. 3451, 41 pp., 1966.
———. Systematics: Amphipoda. Part V of Submarine canyons of
Southern California. Allan Hancock Pacific Exped., vol. 27, pt. 5,

pp. 1-166, graphs 1-12, figs. 146, 1966.

————. New species and records of Pacific Ampeliscidae (Crustacea:
Amphipoda). Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., vol. 121, no. 3576, 20 pp.,
1967.

BowMAN, THomMAS E. The planktonic shrimp, Lucifer chacei sp. nov.
(Sergestidae: Luciferinae), the Pacific twin of the Atlantic Lucifer
faxom. Pacific Sci., vol. 21, no. 2, pp. 266-271, 1967.

———, and Kornicker, Louis S. Two new crustaceans, the parasitic
copepod Sphaeronellopsis monothrix (Choniostomatidae) and its myo-
docopid ostracod host Parasterope pollex (Cylindroleberidae) from
the southern New England coast. Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., vol. 123,
no: 3613; 28.pp.) I spls 1967:

, and McCain, JoHn C. Variation and distribution of the
pelagic amphipod Cyphocaris challengeri in the northeast Pacific.
Proc. U.S..Nat., Mus., vol...122,, no: 3588;,14 pp:, 1967.

CaneT, IsaBeL C. [Isabel Pérez Farfante.] A new species and two
new sub-species of shrimp of the genus Penaeus from the western
Atlantic. Proc. Biol. Soc. Washington, vol. 80, pp. 83-100, 1967.

PUBLICATIONS—INVERTEBRATE ZOOLOGY 141

CuHace, FENNER A., JR. Decapod crustaceans from St. Helena Island,
South Atlantic. Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., vol. 118, no. 3536, pp.
622-662, figs. 1-15, pls. 1-2, 1966.

CLarK, A. M. Some crinoids from New Zealand waters. New
Zealand Journ. Sci., vol. 9, no. 3, pp. 683-705, 7 figs., 1966.

Port Phillip Survey, 1957-1963: Echinodermata. Mem.

Nat. Mus. Victoria, vol. 27, pp. 289-384, 10 figs., 4 pls., 1966.

Notes on the family Ophiotrichidae (Ophiuroidea). Ann.

Mag. Nat. Hist., ser. 13, vol. 9, pp. 637-655, 1 fig., 2 pls., 1967.

Echinoderms from the Red Sea, part 2. Bull. Sea Fish. Res.

Station Haifa, no. 41, pp. 26-58, 5 figs., 1967.

Notes on asteroids in the British Museum (Natural History).

V. Nardoa and some other Ophidiasterida. Bull. British Mus.

Nat. Hist., vol. 15, no. 4, pp. 169-198, 6 pls., 1967.

Proposals for stabilization of the names of some common
European Ophiuroidea. Bull. Zool. Nom., vol. 24, no. 1, pp. 41-
48, 1967.

——, and Davies, P. S. Echinoderms of the Maldive Islands.
Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist., ser. 13, vol. 8, pp. 597-612, 1 pl., 1966.

, and Rowe, F. W. E. Proposals for stabilization of the names

of certain genera and species of Holothurioidea. Bull. Zool. Nom.,

vol. 24, no. 2, pp. 98-115, 1967.

, and Rowe, F. W. E. The identity of the species commonly
known as Holothuria monacaria Lesson, 1830. Bull. Zool. Nom.,
vol. 24, no. 2, pp. 126-128, 1967.

Cressey, Rocer F. Revision of the family Pandaridae (Copepoda,
Caligoida). Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., vol. 121, no. 3570, 133 pp.,
1967.

Caligoid copepods parasitic on sharks of the Indian Ocean.

Proc, U.S) Nat *Mus.,'vol:.12131023572,, 21-pp.;1967-

The genus Gloiopotes and a new species with notes on host
specificity and intraspecific variation (Copepoda: Caligoida).
Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., vol. 122, no. 3600, 22 pp., 4 pls., 1967.

Downey, M. Astronebria tatafilius (Euryalae: Asteronychidae), a new
genus and species of Ophiuroid from the Aleutians, with a revised
key to the Family Asteronychidae. Proc. Biol. Soc. Washington,
vol. 80, pp. 41-46, 1967.

FELL, H. B., and Pawson, D. L. Superorder Echinacea. Jn Treatise
on invertebrate paleontology, edit. R. C. Moore, Part V, Echino-
dermata, vol. 3, no. 2, pp. 375-440, figs. 273-328, 1966.

———, and Pawson, D. L. The general biology of echinoderms. In
Physiology of Echinodermata, edit. R. A. Boolootian, pp. 1-48,
69 figs. New York: Wiley, 1966.

142 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967—MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY

Hiccins, R. P. Echinoderes arlis, a new species of kinorhynch from
the Arctic Ocean. Pacific Sci., vol. 20, pp. 518-520, 1966.

Hoses, Horton H., Jr. An illustrated key to the species of the genus
Ankylocythere with a description of a new species from Louisiana
(Ostracoda: Entocytheridae). Proc. Louisiana Acad. Sci., vol. 29,
pp- 67-75; 18 fies 1966:

——-—. A new genus and three new species of ostracods with a key
to the genus Dactylocythere (Ostracoda: Entocytheridae). Proc.
U.S. Nat. Mus., vol. 122, no. 3587, 10 pp., 1 fig., 1967.

——-—. The current status of the crayfishes listed by Girard (1852)
in his ‘‘A revision of the North American Astaci . . .” (Decapoda:
Astacidae). Crustaceana, vol. 12, pt. 2, pp. 124-132, 1967.

, and Hart, C. W., JR. On the entocytherid ostracod genera

Ascetocythere, Plectocythere, Phymocythere (gen. nov.) and Cymocythere,

with descriptions of new species. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Philadel-

phia, vol. 118, no. 2, pp. 36-61, 37 figs., 1966.

, and WALTON, MARGARET. Orconectes juvenilis (Hagen) in
Mountain Lake Virginia: an unplanned experiment in inter-
specific competition (Decapoda, Astacidea). Virginia Journ. Sci.,
vol. 17, no. 3, pp. 136-140, 1966.

———, and WALTON, MARGARET. A new genus and six new species
of entocytherid ostracods (Ostracoda: Entocytheridae). Proc. U.S.
Nat. Mus., vol. 119, no. 3542, 12 pp., 2 figs., 1 table, 1966.

Hope, W. D. A review of the genus Pseudocella Filipjev, 1927 (Nema-
toda: Leptosomatidae) with a description of Pseudocella triaulolaimus
n. sp. Proc. Helminth. Soc. Washington, vol. 34, pp. 6-12, 1967.

Jones, M. L.; Mannino, R. B.; Pawson, D. L.; RosEwaTER, J.; and
RUETZLER, K. Review of ‘*Poisonous and venomous marine ani-
mals, volume I.”’ Science, vol. 156, p. 795, 1967.

KorRNICKER, Louis S. Euphilomedes arostrata, a new myodocopid
ostracod from the Maldive Islands, Indian Ocean. Proc. U.S.
Nat. Mus., vol. 120, no. 3563, 21 pp., 1967.

———. Supplementary description of the myodocopid ostracod
Euphilomedes multichelata from the Great Bahama Bank. Proc. U.S.
Nat. Mus., vol. 120, no. 3566, 16 pp., 1967.

———. Supplementary descriptions of two myodocopid ostracods
from the Red Sea. Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., vol. 121, no. 3571,
18 pp., 6 figs., 1967.

———. The myodocopid ostracod families Philomedidae and Pseu-
dophilomedidae (new family). Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., vol. 121,
no. 3580, 35 pp., 1 pl., 1967.

A study of three species of Sarsiella (Ostracoda: Myodocopa).

Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., vol. 122, no. 3594, 47 pp., 4 pls., 1967.

|

PUBLICATIONS—INVERTEBRATE ZOOLOGY 143

McCain, JoHN C. Abyssicaprella galatheae, a new genus and species of
abyssal caprellid (Amphipoda: Caprellidae). Galathea Repts., vol.
3 pp. 91—95, 1966.

ManninG, R. B. Notes on some Australian and New Zealand
stomatopod Crustacea, with an account of the species collected
by the Fisheries Investigation Ship, Endeavour. Rec. Australian
Mus., vol. 27, no. 4, pp. 79-137, figs. 1-10, 1966.

—-———. Stomatopoda in the Vanderbilt Marine Museum. Crustace-
ana, vol. 12, pt. 1, pp. 102-106, 1967.

Notes on the genus Manningia with description of a new
species (Crustacea: Stomatopoda). Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., vol.
P27) 00.5089, 13" pp:, 3 figs... 1967.

Maturo, F. J. S., Jk. Bryozoa of the Southeast Coast of the United
States: Bugulidae and Beaniidae (Cheilostomata: Anasca). Bull.
Mar. Sci., vol. 16, no. 3, pp. 556-583, 1966.

Morrison, J. P. E. Zoogeography of the family Amblemidae
[abstract]. American Malacological Union, Annual Reports for
1966, Bull. 33, pp. 14, 43-45, 1967.

Pawson, D. L. The Echinoidea collected by the Royal Society Ex-
pedition to southern Chile, 1958-1959. Pacific Science, vol. 20,
pp. 206-211, 1966.

The ecology of holothurians. Jn Physiology of Echinoder-

mata, edit. R. A. Boolootian, pp. 63-71. New York: Wiley, 1966.

The psolid holothurian genus Lissothuria. Proc. U.S. Nat.
Mus., vol. 122, no. 3592, 17 pp., 5 figs., 1967.

PETTIBONE, M. H. Heteraphrodita altoni, a new genus and species of
polychaete worm (Polychaeta: Aphroditidae) from deep water off
Oregon, and a revision of the aphroditid genera. Proc. Biol. Soc.
Washington, vol. 79, pp. 95-108, figs. 1-5, 1966.

Type-specimens of polychaetes described by Edith and Cyril

Berkeley (1923-1964). Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., vol. 119, no. 3553,

23 pp., 1967.

Some bathyal polynoids from central and northwestern
Pacific (Polychaeta: Polynoidae). Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., vol. 121,
HO. 39/0;,19 pp.,’ 1967.

Renper, H. A. Through the Tuamotus to Pitcairn for Mollusks.
Hawaiian Shell News, vol. 14, no. 8, pp. 1, 4-5, 1 fig.; no. 9, pp.
152.) fig., 1966:

Comment on the proposal to reject Mitra perlata [R6ding],

1798 (Gastropoda) Z. N. (S.) 1726. Bull. Zool. Nom., vol. 23,

pt. 4, p. 133, 1966.

- Comment on the request for action on the name Voluta mitra

Linnaeus, 1758 (Gastropoda) Z. N. (S) 1728. Bull. Zool. Nom.,

vol. 23, pt. 4, p. 146, 1966.

144 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967—-MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY

The non-marine mollusks of Quintana Roo, Mexico, with
the description of a new species of Drymaeus (Pulmonata; Bulimuli-
dae). Proc. Biol. Soc. Washington, vol. 79, pp. 273-296, figs. 1-20,
1966.

Cypraea in the Tubuai (Austral Islands). Hawaiian Shell

News, vol. 14, no. 14, pp. 2, 7, 1966.

Collecting mollusks in Tongatapu. Hawaiian Shell News,
Vol, MO... Dp. tei oul O07,

———. The valid zoological names of the Portland Catalogue.
Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., vol. 121, no. 3579, 51 pp., 2 figs., 1967.

A new genus and two new species in the families Volutidae
and Turbinellidae (Mollusca: Gastropoda) from the Western
Pacific. Pacific Science, vol. 21, no. 2, pp. 182-187, 11 figs., 1967.

ReEIsH, D. J., and BARNARD, J. L. Index to the Bulletin of the South-
ern California Academy of Sciences, vols. 1-60, 1902-61. 73 pp.,
1966.

ROSEWATER, JOSEPH. Reinstatement of Melarhaphe Menke, 1828.
The Nautilus, vol. 80, no. 2, pp. 37-38, 1966.

The giant clams. Australian Natural History, Australian
Museum, Sydney, pp. 250-256, 4 pls., 1966.

RUETZLER, K. Die Poriferen einer Sorrentiner Hoehle. Ergebnisse
der Oesterreichischen Tyrrhenia-Expedition 1952. Teil XVIII.
Zoologischer Anzeiger, vol. 176, pp. 303-19, 1966.

SguirEs, D. F. Data processing and museum collections: A problem
for the present. Curator, vol. 9, no. 3, pp. 216-227, 7 figs., 1966.

Scleractinia. Jn Port Phillip Survey 1957-1963, edit. J. H.
MacPherson, Mem. Nat. Mus. Victoria, Melbourne, no. 27, pp.
167-173,.pl. 1, 1966.

Sguires, D. F.; Pawson, D. L.; and YEATER, L. W. Benthic in-
vertebrate collections. Antarctic Journal of the United States
(July-August), vol. 4 p. 128, 1966.

Witson, M. S. North American Harpacticoid Copepods 7. A new
species of Stenhelia from Nuwuk Lake on the Arctic coast of
Alaska. Proc. Biol. Soc. Washington, vol. 78, pp. 179-188, figs.
ASN 1965.

The nominate subgenus in the genus Acartia (Copepoda,

Calanoida). Crustaceana, vol. 11, p. 109, July 1966.

North American harpacticoid copepods 8. The Danielssenia

stbirica group, with description of D. stefanssoni Willey from Alaska.

Pacific Sci., vol. 20, pp. 435-444, 3 figs., October 1966.

, and Tasu, J. C. The euryhaline copepod genus Eurytemora

in fresh and brackish waters of the Cape Thompson region, Chuk-

chi Sea, Alaska. Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., vol. 118, no. 3534, pp.

953-576, 3 figs., 1966.

PUBLICATIONS—MINERAL SCIENCES 145
MINERAL SCIENCES

Berry, L. G., and Mason, B. Mineralogia (Spanish trans. of ‘‘Min-
eralogy” pub. 1959 by Freeman & Co., San Francisco). Aguilar
Pub. Co., Madrid, 690 pp., 1966.

BosTruM, Kurt, and FREpRIKssOoN, Kurt. Surface conditions of the
Orgueil meteorite parent body as indicated by mineral associations.
Smithsonian Misc. Coll., vol. 151, no. 3, 39 pp., 1966.

CxiarKE, R. S., Jr., and Wosinsk1, J. F. Baddeleyite inclusion in the
Martha’s Vineyard tektite. Geochim. Cosmochim. Acta, vol. 31,
pp. 397-406, 1967.

CuttTatTTA, F.; CLARKE, R.S., JR.; CARRON, M. K.; and ANNELL, C. S.
Martha’s Vineyard and selected Georgia tektites: New chemical
data. Journ. Geophys. Res., vol. 72, pp. 1343-1349, 1967.

FREDRIKSSON, KurT, and LinpGREN, Ivar. Anomalous copper con-
tent in glacial drift and plants in a copper-mineralized area of the
Caledonides. Jn Progress in geochemical prospecting in Fenno-
scandia, edit. A. Kvalheim, pp. 193-202. New York: John
Wiley & Sons, Ltd., May 1967.

———, and Rovsaar, Heino. Rapid spectroscopic determination
of copper in minerogenic soils. Jn Progress in geochemical pros-
pecting in Fennoscandia, edit. A. Kvalheim, pp. 335-339. New
York: John Wiley & Sons, Ltd., May 1967.

Fupaui, R. F. Implications of the non-uniform cooling behavior of
the eclipsed Moon. Icarus, vol. 5, no. 5, pp. 536-546, September
1966.

Reply to note on the non-uniform cooling behavior of the
eclipsed Moon. Icarus, vol. 6, no. 1, pp. 123-125, January 1967.

JAROSEWICH, E. Chemical analysis of ten stony meteorites. Geochim.
Cosmochim. Acta, vol. 30, pp. 1261-1265, 1966.

Chemical analysis of seven stony meteorites and one silicate
rich iron. Geochim. Cosmochim. Acta, vol. 31, pp. 1104~1107,
1967.

Mason, B. Pyrope, augite, and hornblende from Kakanui, New
Zealand. New Zealand Journ. Geol. Geophys., vol. 9, pp. 474-480,
1966.

The composition of the Earth. Nature, vol. 211, pp. 616-618,
1966.

Principles of geochemistry. 329 pp. New York: John Wiley
& Sons, Ltd., 1966.
The Bununu meteorite, and a discussion of the pyroxene-
plagioclase achondrites. Geochim. Cosmochim. Acta, vol. 31,
pp. 107-115, 1967.

146 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967—-MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY

, and JarosEwicH, E. The Winona meteorite. Geochem.
Cosmochim. Acta, vol. 31, pp. 1097-1099, 1967.

Me tson, W. G. Geologic significance of St. Paul’s Rocks. Oceanus,
vol. 7, pp. 8-11, 1966.

; Van ANDEL, T. H.; and JARosEwicH, E. Metamorphism in

the Mid-Atlantic Ridge, 22°N. latitude. Marine Geology, vol. 4,

pp. 165-186, 1966.

; JAROSEWICH, E.; Bowen, V. T.; and THompson, G. St.
Peter and St. Paul’s Rocks: high temperature mantle-derived
intrusion. Science, vol. 144, pp. 1032-1036, 1967.

Wuhk, H. B., and Mason, B. The composition of the Bath, Frankfort,
Kahangari, Rose City, and Tadejra meteorites. Amer. Mus.
Novitates, no. 2272, 24 pp., 1966.

, and Mason, B. The composition of the Barratta, Caraweena,

Kapoeta, Mooresfort, and Ngawi meteorites. Amer. Mus. Novi-

tates, no. 2273, 25 pp., 1966.

, and Mason, B. The composition of the Belly River, Bluff,

Bremervorde, and Modoc meteorites. Amer. Mus. Novitates,

no--2280, 19) pp.,, 1967.

PALEOBIOLOGY

Apvey, W. H. The Genera Lithothamnium, Leptophytum (nov. gen.) and
Phymatolithon in the Gulf of Maine. Hydrobiologia, vol. 28, nos.
St pad oO) wll 966:

BarneEs, C. A., and Gross, M. G. Distribution at sea of Columbia
River water and its load of radionuclides. Jn Disposal of radio-
active wastes into seas, oceans, and surface waters, pp. 291-302.
Internat. Atomic Energy Agency, Vienna, 1966.

Benson, RicHARD H. Recent marine podocopid ostracodes. Ocean-
ogr. Marine Biol. Ann. Review, vol. 4, pp. 213-232, 1966.

Muscle-scar patterns of Pleistocene (Kansan) ostracodes. Jn
Essays in paleontology and stratigraphy, Raymond C. Moore
commemorative volume, pp. 211-241, Univ. Kansas Dept. Geol.,
Spec. Publ. 2, 1967.

BoaRDMAN, R. S. Use of the national collections of invertebrate
fossils, Smithsonian Institution. Journ. Paleont., vol. 40, no. 6,
pp. 1413-1415, 1 fig., 1966.

, and Urcaarp, J. A revision of the Ordovician bryozoan
genera Monticulipora, Peronopora, Heterotrypa, and Dekayia. Journ.
Paleont., vol. 40, no. 5, pp. 1082-1108, 9 figs. 10 pls., 1966.

Car.tuccio, L. M.; Hurser, F. M.; and Banks, H. P. Archaeopteris
macilenta, anatomy and morphology of its frond. Amer. Journ.
Bot., vol. 53, no. 7, pp. 719-730, 1966.

PUBLICATIONS—-PALEOBIOLOGY 147

CrrELLI, RicHarD, and Sacus, K. N. Abundance relationships of
planktonic Foraminifera and Radiolaria. Deep-Sea Research,
Welselss pp? 701-795, 1966:

Dang, C. H.; Coppan, W. A.; and KAurrMan, E.G. Stratigraphy and
regional relationships of a reference section for the Juana Lopez
Member, Mancos Shale, in the San Juan Basin, New Mexico.
U.S. Geol. Surv. Bull. 1224-IT, 15 pp., 3 figs., 1966.

Dutro, J. T., JR. Review and outlook . . . paleontology and
historical geology. Geotimes, vol. 12, no. 2, p. 21, 1967.

Gross, M. G. Minor element concentrations in diatomaceous sedi-
ments of a stagnant fjord. Jn G. H. Lauff, Estuaries, pp. 273-282.
Amer. Assoc. Adv. Sci., publ. 83, 1967.

Organic carbon in surface sediment from the northeast

Pacific Ocean. Int. Journ. Oceanology and Limnology, vol. 1,

pp. 46-544, 1967.

, and NEtson, JAck L. Sediment movement on the continental
shelf near Washington and Oregon. Science, vol. 154, pp. 879-885,
1966.

Hotton, NicHoras, III. Stratigraphy and sedimentation in the
Beaufort Series (Permian-Triassic), South Africa. Jn Essays in
paleontology and stratigraphy, Raymond C. Moore commemora-
tive volume, pp. 390-428, Univ. Kansas Dept. Geol., Spec. Publ. 2,
1967.

HuesBer, F. M. Coal: Origin of a valuable natural resource. Wash-
ington, D.C.: Nat. Coal Assoc., 1966.

, and Banks, H. P. Psilophyton princeps: The search for organic
connection. Taxon, vol. 16, no. 2, pp. 81-85, 1967.

KaurrMan, E. G. Cretaceous Thyasira from the Western Interior of
North America. Smithsonian Misc. Coll., vol. 152, no. 1, 240 pp.,
5 pls., 19 figs., table, 1967.

The Upper Cretaceous Jnoceramus of Puerto Rico: Papers

4th Carib. Geol. Conf. for 1965, 40 pp., 6 figs., 2 pls., 1967.

Notes on the Cretaceous Inoceramidae of Jamaica. Geo-
notes, Jamaican Geol. Soc., 15 pp., table, 1967.

KELLOGG, REMINGTON. Fossil marine mammals from the Miocene
Calvert formation of Maryland and Virginia. Part 3, New species
of extinct Miocene Sirenia (pp. 65-98, figs. 32-38, pls. 33-43);
Part 4, A new odontocete from the Calvert formation of Maryland
(pp. 99-101, pls. 4445). U.S. Nat. Mus. Bull. 247, pts. 3 & 4,
1966.

Krer, P. M. Nocidarid Paleozoic echinoids, pp. V298-V312, figs.
218-234, and Cassiduloids, pp. V492-V523, figs. 378-413, in
Treatise on invertebrate paleontology, edit. R. C. Moore, Part V,
Echinodermata, vol. 3, nos. 2, 3, 1966.

148 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967—-MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY

Four new echinoids from Barbados. Smithsonian Misc.

Coll., vol. 151, no. 9, 28 pp., 1 pl., 16 text-figs., 1966.

A new echinoid from the Cretaceous Pierre Shale of eastern
Wyoming. Jn Gill and Cobban, The Red Bird section of the
Upper Cretaceous Pierre Shale in Wyoming, U.S. Geol. Surv.
Prof. Paper 393 A, pp. 62-65, 12 pls., 17 text-figs., 1966.

———. The echinoids of Dominica. Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., vol. 121,
no. 3577, 10 pp., 10 figs., 1966.

Lapp, H. S.; Tracey, J. I., Jr.; and Gross, M. G. Drilling on
Midway Atoll, Hawaii. Science, vol. 156, pp. 1088-1094, May
1967.

McGinnis, HELEN J. The osteology of Phlegethontia, a Carboniferous
and Permian aistopod amphibian. Univ. Calif. Publ. Geol. Sci.,
vol. 71, 49 pp., 1 pl., 13 figs., 1967

MERIDA, JESSE, and BoARDMAN, R. S. The use of Paleozoic Bryozoa
from well cuttings. Journ. Paleont., vol. 41, no. 3, 7 pp., 1967.

PrERCE, J. W.; Gross, M. G., and STANLEY, D. J. Sedimentation and
Stratigraphy. Geotimes, vol. 12, pp. 10-11, 1967.

RASETTI, FRANCO. Revision of the North American species of the
Cambrian trilobite genus Pagetia. Journ. Paleont., vol. 40, no. 3,
pp. 502-511, pls. 59-60, 1966.

, and THEOKRITOFF, GEORGE. Lower Cambrian agnostid
trilobites of North America. Journ. Paleont., vol. 41, no. 1, pp.
189-196, pl. 20, 1966.

Ray, Crayton. The status of Bootherium brazosis. Pearce-Sellards
Ser. no. 5, Texas Mem. Mus., pp. 1-7, 2 figs., 1966.

; Cooper, B. N.; and BennincHorr, W. S. Fossil mammals
and pollen in a late Pleistocene deposit at Saltville, Virginia.
Journ. Paleont., vol. 41, no. 3, pp. 608-622, 2 pls., 4 figs., 1967.

Ruoaps, D. C., and STantey, D. J. Transmitted infrared radiation:
A simple method for studying sedimentary structures. Journ.
Sed. Petrology, vol. 36, pp. 1144-1149, 1966.

Rosison, R. A. Ontogeny of Bathyuriscus fimbriatus and its bearing on
affinities of corynexochid trilobites. Journ. Paleont., vol. 41,
now, spp. 213-221, pl... 1967-

STANLEY, D. J. Review of ‘‘Essai de nomenclature et caractérisation
des principales structures sédimentaires.” Journ. Sed. Petrology,
vol. 37, pp. 717-718, 1967.

———. Petrology and stratigraphy applied to a problem of
river engineering in the Lower Mississippi Delta. Jn Deltas in their
geologic framework, edit. N. L. Shirley, pp. 63-81, Houston Geol.
Soc., 1966.

PUBLICATIONS—-VERTEBRATE ZOOLOGY 149

; Krinitzsky, E. L.; and Compton, J. R. Mechanics of

Mississippi River bank failure in deltaic plain sediments at Fort

Jackson, Louisiana. Bull. Geol. Soc. Amer., vol. 77, pp. 859-866,

1966.

, and Ruwoaps, D. C. Dune sands examined by infrared
photography. Bull. Amer. Assoc. Petrologists Geologists, vol. 51,
pp. 424-430, 1967.

Towe, K. M., and Harper, C. W., Jr. Pholidostrophiid brachiopods:
Origin of the nacreous luster. Science, vol. 154, pp. 153-155,
1966.

———, and LowenstamM, H. A. _ Ultrastructure and develop-
ment of iron mineralization in the radular teeth of Cryptochiton
stelleri (Mollusca). Journ. Ultrastructure Research, vol. 17, pp.
1=13;°1967.

, and CrFe.u, R. Wall ultrastructure in the calcareous Foram-
inifera: Crystallographic aspects and a model for calcification.
Journ. Paleont., vol. 41, no. 3, 1967.

Wooprinc, W. P. Chiodrillia squamosa, a Miocene turrid gastropod
from the Dominican Republic. Journ. Paleont., vol. 40, pp.
1229-1232, 1966.

Estratigrafia Terciaria de la Zona del Canal y partes adya-

centes de la Republica de Panama. Inst. Centroamer. Invest.

Techn. Ind., Pub. Geol., no. 1, pp. 43-45, 1966.

The Panama land bridge as a sea barrier. Proc. Amer.

Philos. Soc., vol. 110, pp. 425-433, 1966.

VERTEBRATE ZOOLOGY

[*Contributions of Pacific Ocean Biological Survey Program}

ALDRICH, JOHN W. Before it is too late. Chapter zn Birds in our lives,
edit. Arnold Nelson and Alfred Stefferud, pp. 488-505. U.S.
Dept. of the Interior, Fish and Wildlife Service, 1966.

AmERSON, A. B., JR. Incident rate and transfer of Rhinoyssidae in
sooty terns. Journ. Med. Ent., vol. 4, no. 2; pp. 197-199, 1967.*

Ornithodorus capensis (Acarina: Argasidae) infesting sooty
terns nasal cavity. Journ. Parasit., vol. 52, no. 6, pp. 1220-1221
1966.*

AMTMANN, E. Preliminary identification manual for African mammals,
Part 3, Rodentia: Sciuridae. 25 pp., 1966.

ANSELL, W. F. H. Preliminary identification manual for African
mammals, Part 5, Proboscidea. 4 pp., 1967.

Preliminary identification manual for African mammals,

Part 6, Perissodactyla. 26 pp., 1967.

150 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967—MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY

Banks, RicHARD C. The Peromyscus guardia-interparietalis complex.
Journ. Mamm., vol. 48, pp. 210-218, 1967.

Best, P. Preliminary identification manual for African mammals,
Part 4, Cetacea. 19 pp., 1966.

Bonp, Gorman M. Notes on the taxonomy of the birds of Maryland
and the District of Columbia, Part II, Passeriformes. Proc. Biol.
Soc. Washington, vol. 79, pp. 165-170, 1966.

Bostic, Dennis L., and BANnxs, RicHARD C. A record of stingray
predation by the brown pelican. Condor, vol. 68, pp. 515-516,
September—October 1966.

BRENNAN, J. M. A small collection of chiggers (Acarina: Trombi-
culidae) from the north central Pacific. Journ. Parasit. vol. 51,
no? 5;;pp::6885692, 1965.7

Carco, Davin G., and ScHuLtTz, LEonARD P. Notes on the biology
of the sea nettle, Chrysaora quinquecirrha, in Chesapeake Bay.
Chesapeake Sci., vol. 7, no. 2, pp. 95-100, 1966.

Cxiapp, B., and Siptey, F. Longevity records of some Central Pacific
seabirds. Bird Banding, vol. 37, no. 3, pp. 193-197, 1966.*

, and Srstey, F. New distributional records of birds from the

Phoenix and Line Islands. Ibis, vol. 109, pp. 122-125, 1967.*

, and Srstey, F. Birds of Tutuila, American Samoa. Notornis,

vol. 13, no. 3, pp. 157-164, September 1966.*

, and Titcer, G. Wandering tattler and golden plover feed
on snake-eyed skink. Herpetologica, vol. 23, no. 1, p. 75, 1967.*

FAIRCHILD G. B., and HANDLEY, CHARLES O., JR. Gazetteer of col-
lecting localities in Panama. Jn Wenzel and Tipton, Ectoparasites
of Panama, pp. 9-20, Field Mus. Nat. Hist. publ. 1010, November
1966.

FRIEDMANN, HERBERT. Additional data on the host relations of the
parasitic cowbirds. Smithsonian Misc. Coll., vol. 149, no. 11, pp.
1-12, August 1966.

Gipss, RoBEerT H., JR., and CoLLeTTE, BRucE B. Comparative anat-
omy and systematics of the tunas, genus Thunnus. U.S. Dept.
Interior Fish. Bull., vol. 66, no. 1, pp. 65-130, 1967.

HANDLEY, CHARLES O., JR. Checklist of the mammals of Panama.
In Wenzel and Tipton, Ectoparasites of Panama, pp. 753-795,
Field Mus. Nat. Hist. publ. 1010, November 1966.

———. Descriptions of new bats (Choeroniscus and Rhinophylla) from
Colombia. Proc. Biol. Soc. Washington, vol. 79, pp. 83-88, May
1966.

Chiroptera from the vicinity of Belém. Annual Report, In-
stituto de Pesquisas e Experimentagao Agropecuarias do Norte,
7 pp., 1966.
PUBLICATIONS—VERTEBRATE ZOOLOGY 151

Descriptions of new bats (Chiroderma and Artibeus) from
Mexico. Anales del Instituto de Biologia, U.N.A.M., vol. 36, pp.
297-301,°1966.

Husss, Car L., and Banks, RicHarp C. Wandering onto the eastern
Pacific Ocean of an eastern North American land bird, the bay-
breasted warbler. Auk, vol. 83, pp. 680-682, October 1966.

Humpurey, Puiwie S. Programa Sobre Vertebrados de Mata. An-
nual Report, Instituto de Pesquisas e Experimentagao Agropecu-
arias do Norte, 3 pp., 1966.

Preliminary survey of blood parasites of birds of the APEG.
Annual Report, Instituto de Pesquisas e Experimentag4o Agropecu-
arias do Norte, 8 pp., 1966.

Jounston, D., and McFariang, R. Migration and bioenergetics of
flight of the Pacific golden plover. Condor, vol. 69, No. 2, pp.
156-168, 1967.*

Kinc, W. Seabirds of the Tropical Pacific Ocean, preliminary Smith-
sonian identification manual. Smithsonian Institution Press, 126
pp., 32 pls., April 1967.*

KirRKPATRICK, R. Mammals of Johnston Atoll. Journ. Mamm., vol.
47, no. 4, pp. 728-729, 1966.*

Mammals of the Tokelau Islands. Journ. Mamm. vol. 47,
no. 4, pp. 701-704, 1966.*

Kouts, G. A new sea bird tick, Ixodes amersont from Phoenix Island
(Acarina: Ixodidae). Journ. Med. Ent., vol. 3, no. 3, pp. 38-40,
April 1966.*

LaAcHNER, ERNEsT A. Status of the catostomid fish name Catostomus
aureolus LeSueur. Copeia no. 2, pp. 455-457, 1967.

Locke, Wirtz, and Brown. Pox infection and a secondary cutaneous
mycosis in a red-tailed tropicbird. Bull. Wildlife Disease, vol. 1,
pp. 60-61, 1965.*

Myers, Georce S., and WEITzMAN, STANLEY H. Tworemarkable new
trichomycterid catfishes from the Amazon basin in Brazil and
Colombia. Journ. Zool., London, vol. 149, pp. 277-287, 1966.

Peters, JAMES A. Rare and endangered reptiles and amphibians of
the United States. Jn Rare and endangered fish and wildlife of
the United States; Comm. on R. and E. Wildl. Sp., Bureau Sport
Fish. and Wildl., Dept. Int. Res. Publ. 34, pp. RA i, 1-12, 1967.

A note on the concept of subspecies (reprinted from Bull.

Virginia Herp. Soc.) Bull. Maryland Herp. Soc., vol. 3, no. 1,

pp. 7-8. 1967.

The lizards of Ecuador, a check list and key. Proc. U.S.

Nat. Mus., vol. 119, No. 3545, pp. 1-49, 1967.

152 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967—-MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY

Riptey, S. Ditton. Reminiscences of the season. Aviculture, vol. 72,
No. 8, pp. 158-160, November—December 1966.

Save the endangered birds. Science, November 11, 1966.

, and Bonp, Gorman M. The birds of Socotra and Abd-el-

Kuri. Smithsonian Misc. Coll., vol. 151, no. 7, 37 pp., August 1966.

, and Kine, B. Discovery of the female of the black-throated

robin Erithacus obscurus (Berezowsky and Bianchi). Proc. Biol. Soc.

Washington, vol. 79, pp. 151-152, August 1966.

, and Rasor, D. S. Dicaeum proprium, new species (Aves:
Dicaeidae). Proc. Biol. Soc. Washington, vol. 79, pp. 305-306,
December 1966.

Rosins, C. RicHARD, and LACHNER, Ernest A. The status of Ctenogo-
bius Gill (Pisces: Gobiidae). Copeia no. 4, pp. 867-869, 1966.
SCHULTZ, LEONARD P. Review of South American freshwater angel-
fishes—genus Pterophyllum. Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., vol. 120, no.

3599, 10) pp:;.1967.

Predation of sharks on man. Chesapeake Science, vol. 8, no.
le pp: /52-62.)1967.

SETZER, Henry W. Comments on the standardization of field data.
In Proc. Colloquium on African Rodents (Brussels-Tervuren, 1964).
Ann. Mus. Roy. Afr. Centr., Zool., vol. 144, pp. 7-10, 1966.

SHOPE, RoBERT E.; PAEs DE ANDRADE, AMELIA HoMoOBONO; BENSABATH,
GILBERTA; Causey, Ottis R.; and Humpnrey, Pump S. The
epidemiology of EEE, WEE, SLE, and Turlock viruses, with
special reference to birds, in a tropical rain-forest near Belém,
Brazil. Amer. Journ. Epidemiology, vol. 84, no. 3, pp. 467-477
1966.

SHort, Lester L., Jr. Field sparrow sings chipping sparrow song.
Auk, vol. 83, p. 665, October 1966.

, and LayBournE, RoxiE C. An instance of white wing-barring
in the common crow. Wilson Bull., vol. 79, pp. 113-144, March
1967.

Stup, Paut. The birds of Cocos Island (Costa Rica). Bull. Amer.
Mus. Nat. Hist., vol. 134, art. 4, pp. 263-295, 1967.

SPRINGER, Victor G. Revision of the circumtropical shorefish genus
Entomacrodus (family Blenniidae). Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., vol. 122,
no. 3582, 150 pp., 1967.

A new species of the blenniid fish genus Entomacrodus from the

eastern Atlantic Ocean. Atlantide Rept., vol. 9, pp. 59-61, 1967. —

The Pacific South American blenniid fish, Hypsoblennius

sordidus. Copeia no. 2, pp. 461-465, 1967.

PUBLICATIONS—VERTEBRATE ZOOLOGY 153

TayLor, WiLL1AM R. An enzyme method of clearing and staining
small vertebrates. Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., vol. 122, no. 3596, 17
pp-, 1967.

Tsupa, R. Algae from selected islands in the Leeward Hawaiian
Group. Atoll Res. Bull. no. 115, 13 pp., 1 fig., 1966.*

Watson, GEorGE E. Smithsonian identification manual: Seabirds of
the tropical Atlantic Ocean, 120 pp., 12 pls. | map. Smithsonian
Institution Press, Publ. 4680, November 1966.

The chukar partridge of St. Helena Island, South Atlantic
Ocean. Proc. Biol. Soc. Washington, vol. 78, pp. 179-182,
August 1966.

, and Amerson, A. Binion, JR. Instructions for collecting bird
parasites. Smithsonian Information Leaflet 477, 12 pp., March
1967.

WEITZMAN, STANLEY H., and Wourms, JoHN P. South American
cyprinodont fishes allied to Cynolebias with the description of a new
species of Austrofundulus from Venezuela. Copeia no. 1, pp. 89-100,
1967.

WETMORE, ALEXANDER. Gilbert Hovey Grosvenor (1875-1966). The
Geographical Review, vol. 56, no. 4, pp. 598-599, October 1966.

Zusi, RicHarD L. The role of the depressor mandibulae muscle in
kinesis of the avian skull. Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., vol. 123, no. 3607,
28 pp., 13 figs., 1967.

te wbtidask -lerterre Hokeiisti tiie ast To =

ener Pate ds “wee Nets ae art ais

Thine Ma: “decry ae Baty ra iS
ae ie oe doy ae” fer eB ee. ‘Vance r
noaesynht Teves? ant hi thakta ways tay eye 2
= haat’ oat ae 7 taal oii hain

eid t ” einSaty  egrtih Ph hg atria

Ww) Oise sual th Tea

toaliey! Aves, “Bae? eesioh 2° Soh aeany ele
S8i-eri ny : OTR Pagina lot i

bid 4 74h uit, 7: "dh FLU hi pi ‘1 i f whey ire | ram veri rs
re J ‘J : we ‘ ie eS
feel ar 20 ONS) SSS Neo SFO abn ine
AL ) oe ine

iA whine” AP Maine ly AP fey Fe os eek!
jeu ERY Wt Miesty 6) iy stabi, bch) Ere rade be

HOT B88 29q Poa Hage’? “Reha? ail ee. F

ae CIEE wet pve pai rare),
nse fy) = Wy, ig ae | en ee sat bese muary & reeiree
si nisetti “iti VO Teeny he ly SMa er ae
HSE Yost LEV Yay, A ES Sah tia

Oe ae 4
ae ree |

fs ay 4

ry?
=$ » we ’
i)
} | af ‘
LU
i io « fee

dy lie lye ? ’ )
=, ry ar ’ 4 Po

ns es}
National Zoological Park

THEODORE H. REED, Director

| 3 ead GROWTH AND ACHIEVEMENT in all areas again mark the
year for the National Zoological Park. No one event overshadows
all others. In the animal department a third gorilla and a sloth bear
were born. In the research division a field study of the Ceylonese
elephant was started. The new hoofed-stock area was opened and
occupied. And constant improvement in such aspects of the Zoo’s
work as education, nutrition, and beautification of the grounds contrib-
uted to a very good year.

In the interest of conserving endangered species of animals, two
female pygmy hippopotamuses from other zoos were bred to the
National Zoo’s Totota. Word has also been received that our male
orangutan, Butch, who was sent to the Boston Zoo last year* is now
residing in Colorado Springs for breeding purposes.

The Animals

Through gifts, births, purchases, and exchanges, the collection has
increased so that it now contains not only more individual animals,
but a greater number of species than ever before in its history, greatly
adding to the diversity of the exhibits.

*See Smithsonian Year 1966, p. 154.
155
156 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967

STATUS OF THE COLLECTION

June 30, 1967

Species or
Phylum: Class Orders Families subspecies Individuals
Chordata: Mammals 13 47 235 610
: Birds 21 75 426 1, 309
: Reptiles 3 23 256 873
: Amphibians 3 13 38 228
: Fishes 5 10 31 177
Arthropoda: Insects 1 1 1 5
: Crustaceans 1 1 2 33
: Spiders 1 1 1 1
Mollusca: Snails 1 1 1 30
ToTaLs 49 172 989 3, 266

To these figures should be added the 28 species, comprising 138 in-
dividuals, of small mammals under the care of the research division
and not always on exhibit, giving a grand total of 1,017 species and
3,404 individuals.

Increased interest of the scientific community in the history of
captive animals has led the Zoo to improve with an easy-retrieval
system its method of keeping animal records.

Nore: Certain tabulated, statistical, and other information formerly contained in
the report of the National Zoological Park in Smithsonian Year now appears as
appendices to the Separate of this Report (available on request from the Director
of the National Zoological Park). This information includes:
Visitor statistics and other operational information.
Report of the Veterinarian, augmented by case histories and autopsy reports.
Complete lists of (a) animals in the collection on June 30, 1967; (b) all births
and hatchings during the year; and (c) changes in the collection by gift,
purchase, or exchange.

In cooperation with the American Institute of Biological Sciences,
the Smithsonian Institution sponsored an intensive course in bio-
medical telemetry at the Natural History Museum auditorium,
August 10 to 13. Special exhibits in connection with the course, held
at the Zoo August 10 to 19, were:

Caiman: This reptile swallowed a radio transmitter which senses
temperature and telemeters it to an external receiver, whether the
animal is in or out of the water. Visitors could detect the clicking
signal and calculate the caiman’s temperature for themselves.
Four-day-old Inaki, lowland gorilla, the third offspring (and first female)
born to Moka and Nikumba.

Llama: A subcutaneous probe from an attached external trans-
mitter sent pulses to a receiver for continuous recording. These indica-
tions, which are useful in disease diagnosis, showed much smaller
changes in this warm-blooded animal than in the caiman.

Pronghorn: A transmitter carried externally by the animal emitted
a pulsating signal which could be heard on a receiver with turnable
antenna. Rotation of direction-finding receiver by the visitor allowed
him to locate the animal in the paddock.

These exhibits were set up by R. Stuart Mackay of the University
of California, in cooperation with the Zoo staff.

Moving the white rhinoceroses turned out to be one of the most
elaborate engineering feats to be accomplished during the year.
From their rather small cage and outdoor yard in the elephant house,
which they had occupied ever since their arrival here on September 4,
1956, Bill and Lucy were transferred to a moated hillside where
they can be viewed without any obstructing bars. Their new home
is in an area reserved for hoofed stock too delicate to winter outdoors,
and it is an ideal spot in which to display these valuable and mag-
nificent animals.
158 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967

Special ramps that would bear the weight of the rhinos (Bill weighs
4,865 pounds, Lucy 3,630) were built by the mechanical department
in order to have the animals walk onto the waiting trucks. With the
aid of tranquilizers administered by Zoo veterinarian Clinton Gray,
and with eleven stalwart keepers to push and tug, both animals made
it safely. The distance traveled was about 500 feet—the time required,
four hours.

With completion of the new hoofed-stock area, the zebras and
Mongolian horse were returned on September 2, 1966, to the Zoo,
after having been boarded at a farm in Maryland. The first major
birth in the area was that of a male Grant’s zebra on April 12, 1967.

BIRTHS

Outstanding mammal births included a sloth bear, a brown lemur,
golden marmoset twins, five serval kittens, two of the rare little South
African black-footed cats, and two golden cats. As always, the excite-
ment that surrounds the birth of a gorilla in captivity attended
the birth to Moka, the Zoo’s lowland gorilla, of her third infant and
first female, on April 8, 1967. Inaki, as the youngster was named, is
being reared by Mrs. Bernard Gallagher, who successfully reared the
first two gorillas born at the National Zoo. The birth this year of 5
Barbary apes, more than in any previous year, brings to 27 the colony
which is being built up for the monkey island that is in the Zoo’s future
plans. Mating of the black rhinoceroses has been observed, and if the
signs of pregnancy are reliable, a rhinoceros will be born during fiscal
year 1968.

Among the bird hatchings followed by successful raising were those
achieved by crested green wood partridges (14), Hawaiian ducks (9),
black-necked swan (1), kookaburras (5), Pentland’s tinamou (2), and
the bare-throated tree partridge (1). The first emu chick to be hatched
in the Zoo appeared, but perhaps the rarest of all was a tiny elf owl;
so far as is known, the only other elf owls to be hatched in captivity are
at the Sonora Desert Museum in Arizona, where conditions closely
simulate their natural habitat and are not at all like those for our
little pair behind glass in the bird house. Birds that had first nestings
but were unsuccessful in hatchings were the rufous-thighed falconet,
red-billed oxpecker, and collared forest falcon.

Noteworthy reptile hatchings were those of the banded red snakes
(2) and the eastern indigo snake (1).

GIFTS

As usual, the Zoo was the recipient of numerous, much appreciated
gifts. A complete list will be found in the Appendix (see note, p. 156).
NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK 159

Movine A WHITE RHINO
MAKES 2) <7 5

oe
ty 7.
eo =
at x

Tranquilizing . - - coaxing ...

=

and finally . . .
the new quarters.

160 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967

Of particular interest were two baby cheetahs, presented by Woodward
& Lothrop, which were part of a window display at the store in
January. Dr. Harry Hoogstraal, at the time stationed in Cairo, sent
the Zoo a North African banded weasel, eleven European hoopoes,
other birds, and a number of interesting reptiles. John Archbold, of
Upperville, Va., gave two river otters. Edward Marshall Boehm, of
Trenton, N.J., presented 29 specimens of rare birds, and S. Dillon
Ripley contributed 18 birds, mostly waterfowl, and a muntjac—a
small species of Asiatic deer. An albino turtle from Thailand was a
gift from the Dusit Zoo, Bangkok, to the National Zoo, and was
accepted on the Zoo’s behalf by Mrs. Lyndon B. Johnson, who visited
the Dusit Zoo in October.

A much appreciated contribution, received from Reader’s Digest, was
$500 ear-marked for the purchase of animals.

PURCHASES

Four Pére David’s deer were purchased to start a National Zoological
Park herd. These rare animals exist only in captivity, having been
extinct in the wild for many years. All are young, and breeding is not
expected for several years.

One male greater kudu was received and females now in quarantine
in Germany are expected to arrive in midsummer.

Pure species gibbon colonies are hard to find in the United States,
as these ‘‘species”’ readily crossbreed, but the Zoo has been fortunate in
obtaining five crested gibbons, Hylobates concolor, sometimes called
white-cheeked gibbons.

New animals purchased and placed on exhibit this year include lesser
pandas, Colobus monkeys, Sykes’ monkeys, Asiatic pangolins, and
viscachas.

Sixty eggs of Icelandic ducks were purchased and are being incu-
bated; old squaw and red-breasted merganser are two of the several
species bought. Also purchased and placed on exhibit were 2 rhinoceros
hornbills from Malaya, known for their high, red-and-yellow casque
curled upward at the front.

In the bird house, on loan from the Baltimore Zoo; is a kagu, which
is nocturnal and lives on the forest floor in New Caledonia.

LOANS AND EXCHANGES

The Zoo continued its custom of exchanging surplus animals with
other zoos and of receiving specimens in return, and a complete list
of these will be found in the Appendix (see note, p. 156). In several
such instances the Zoo obtained mates for solitary specimens in the
NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK 161

National collection, among them a hyacinthine macaw from the
Catskill Game Farm and a drill from the Dallas Zoo. From Pretoria,
South Africa, came the largest exchange, which included a pair of
spotted hyenas, four Stanley cranes, eight sacred ibis, and a number
of rare reptiles.

REMOVALS

Saddest loss of the year was the death on November 26, 1966, of
the Bengal tiger Samson, mate to Mohini the white tigress. Specialists
called in consultation found it impossible to save the animal from a
degenerative kidney ailment. Details of the terminal illness may be
found in the Veterinarian’s report in the Appendix (see note, p. 156).
Ramana, Samson’s son, a male of normal color from Mohini’s first
litter, is now of breeding age and has been successfully introduced to
his mother. Genetic makeup from this union should produce a litter
of which half the cubs are white and half yellow.

Because of a shortage of great ape quarters, the Zoo’s pair of breeding
chimpanzees, Maggie and Jiggs, were loaned to the Forest Park Zoo in
Springfield, Massachusetts. On April 21, 1967, two days after their
tenth baby was born, Jiggs escaped from his cage and had to be shot.
Maggie and the baby remain in Springfield.

Some losses in the collection were specimens that had been here for
so many years that they may have established longevity records.
“Granny,” a red-faced macaque, received in 1942 as a gift from
Harold Coolidge, in whose family it had been a pet since 1937, died
March 1967 at the age of thirty.

Research

Research at the National Zoological Park has undergone rapid
diversification during the past year. With the conversion of two rooms
on the top floor of the reptile house into laboratories, facilities have
been expanded, and the added area permits the accommodation of
new predoctoral research students as well as visiting investigators from
other institutions.

In conjunction with H. K. Buechner of the Smithsonian Office of
Ecology, and with F. Kurt and G. McKay, a research program was
initiated on the behavior and ecology of the Ceylonese elephant,
Elephas maximus, financed in part through the Smithsonian Foreign
Currency Program and by a grant from the World Wildlife Fund.
Preliminary studies on elephant behavior were conducted at the Zoo,
but the current effort is concentrated in the Yala region on the south-
east coast of Ceylon.
NOTEWORTHY RESIDENTS
AT THE NATIONAL Zoo

Adult elf owls Mucrathene
whitneyt and their young,
hatched at the Zoo in spring
1967. These tiny 54-inch
owls, native to Mexico and
the American southwest,
seldom thrive in captivity,
and as far as can be deter-
mined the only other suc-
cessful hatching has been at
the Sonora Desert Museum
(Photo Constance iP:
Warner).

Linsang Prionodon linsang, a
rare viverrine from southern
Burma, Malay States, Su-
matra, Java, and Borneo.
Received April 16, 1958, it
is the first of its kind ever
exhibited at the National
Zoological Park, and un-
doubtedly now represents a
longevity record for the
species in captivity.

Malayan pangolin Manis javanicus on exhibit in the small-mammal house.

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK 163

Two spotted hyena pups, 3 months
old. Although not rare as a species,
this pair is interesting because they
were born by caesarian section. The
gravid mother was shot after being
found in a poacher’s snare near the
Kruger National Park in South
Africa, and a speedy operation pro-
duced three pups with their eyes
open and able to walk. One young
died shortly after, but the other two
were hand-reared at the National
Zoological Gardens of South Africa
in Pretoria and sent to the National
Zoo on April 6, 1967.

Male fossa Cryptoprocta ferox, one of , ae .
the rarest viverrines and the largest Sa ae ares |
Malagasy carnivore. This animal,
the only fossa in the Western
Hemisphere, was acquired by resi-
dent scientist John F. Eisenberg on
his first expedition to Madagascar
in spring 1966. Only other fossa
ever exhibited in the United States
was at the National Zoo from
October 6, 1954 to January 6, 1962.

Female leopard cat Felis bengalensis and
male young. This mother gave birth to a
female kitten on January 27th which she
refused. A second kitten was stillborn on
January 28th, and this male was born on
January 29th, accepted and _ successfully
raised. The picture was taken on April 6th.

164 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967

During fall 1966 Paul Leyhausen of the Max Planck Institute at
Wuppertal visited for two months and together with John Eisenberg
initiated research on the behavior patterns of our captive viverrids.
It is being continued by Christen Wemmer.

In January Eisenberg left for Ceylon to initiate the elephant ecology
program. Thence on January 30 he proceeded to Madagascar, where
he joined Edwin Gould of Johns Hopkins University in a continuation
of their studies on the insectivores of that island. Eisenberg’s return
in April was followed by three shipments of living mammals from
Madagascar, including the mouse lemur Microcebus, the dwarf lemur
Cheirogaleus, and tenrecs of the genera Tenrec, Hemicentetes, and Maicro-
gale. Eisenberg returned to Ceylon in May for an inspection of field
work on the elephant. He presented a seminar at the University of
Missouri and gave a lecture course in sociobiology during the fall
semester at the University of Maryland.

Other current research projects were:

1. Studies of thermoregulation and reproduction in the tenrecs of
the following genera: Mucrogale, Hemicentetes, Tenrec, Setifer, and
Echinops (with E. Gould).

2. Studies of the ontogeny of vocalization in neotropical primates,
the following species being currently under study: Saguinus oedipus,
Leontocebus rosalia, Ateles fusciceps (with Miss N. Muckenhirn).

3. Studies on the social behavior and on the ontogeny of behavior
among selected species of Caviomorph rodents (with Mr. N. Smythe).

4. Studies on the prey-catching behavior of carnivorous mammals,
including the Tenrecidae, Dasyuridae, and Viverridae (with P.
Leyhausen and C. Wemmer).

Visiting scientists using the facilities of the research division also
included Theodore I. Grand, Oregon Primate Center; Muriele
Bertrand, Johns Hopkins University; and Suzanne Ripley, University
of Virginia.

The following papers originating in the research division were
published:

EISENBERG, J. F. Nagetiere-Territorien und Wechsel. Jn Die Strassen
der Tiere, edit. H. Hediger, pp. 83-101. Vieweg und Sohn, 1967.

————, and GouLp, E. The maintenance of tenrecoid insectivores
in captivity. Int. Zoo Yearbook VII, pp. 194-196, 1967.

———, and Kueun, R. E. The behavior of Ateles geoffroyi and
related species. Smithsonian Misc. Coll., vol. 151, no. 8, publ.
4683, 63 pp., & 6 pl., 1966.

———, and Matiniak, E., 1967. The breeding of Marmosa in
captivity. Int. Zoo Yearbook VII, pp. 78-79, 1967.
NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK 165

GouLp, E., and EIsENBERG, J. F. Notes on the biology of the Ten-
recidae. Journ. Mammal., vol. 47, no. 4, pp. 660-686, 1966.

Conservation

As conceived by Smithsonian Secretary Langley in 1888, the Na-
tional Zoological Park was to be ‘‘a home and city of refuge for the
vanishing races of the continent.” In the years since then, North
American wildlife has been brought under generally successful man-
agement in hundreds of State and National parks, forests, and refuges.
At the same time, however, wildlife in Africa, Asia, and South America
has been so swiftly and drastically reduced that several hundred species
are in imminent danger of extinction. Today the National Zoo’s role
in conservation has become international.

Within the Zoo itself, the new orientation is expressed in manage-
ment of the collection, and in public education. ‘“‘Vanishing Animal”
signs mark the threatened mammals and birds. Captive breeding has

This symbol marks animal
species now in danger of
extinction in the wild.

VANIS ING
ANIMAL

become a necessary safeguard against extinction for a number of
species. The National Zoo has had outstanding success in propagating
the pygmy hippopotamus. Other endangered species successfully bred
at the Zoo include the golden marmoset, orangutan, dorcas gazelle,
and Hawaiian duck. The Zoo has acquired a nucleus herd of Pére
David’s deer and is awaiting arrival of a trio of scimitar-horned oryx.

The Director and the Assistant Director are closely affiliated with the
work of such national and international conservation agencies as the
International Union for the Conservation of Nature, the Wild Animal
Propagation Trust, and the Committee on Conservation of the Ameri-
can Association of Zoological Parks and Aquariums, which also has a
Subcommittee on Endangered Species. A principal function of the
latter is to help suppress the traffic in illegally captured and smuggled
animals. Zoos considering purchase of species on the critical list are
required by AAZPA policy to consult this Subcommittee, which
verifies the required licenses and certificates.
166 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967

Day-to-day cooperation with foreign zoo associations, conservation
groups, and public officials has virtually halted the trade in smuggled
orangutans. In February 1967, in the first action of its kind, U.S.
authorities seized a young orangutan at Dulles Airport. Pending final
court action, ‘“Dennis” has been housed at the National Zoo. Authori-
ties have recommended that he be placed on deposit, for breeding
purposes, in a zoo designated by the Wild Animal Propagation Trust.
The Subcommittee has also helped suppress illegal traffic in monkey-
eating eagles, Javan and Sumatran rhinoceroses, Galapagos and
Aldabra tortoises, golden marmosets, and Zanzibar red Colobus
monkeys, all gravely threatened species.

A long-term objective of the Zoo is to establish a “‘survival center,”
a farm or ranch with more space for breeding groups of endangered
species than an urban zoo can provide. A suitable farm owned by the
Smithsonian Institution is available to the Zoo, provided funds can be
obtained for improvements and operating costs.

Information and Education

The information-education section continued its signing and labeling
program. It also provided graphic arts services and support, editorial
assistance and copy writing for various activities, as well as assisting
with press, radio and TV coverage of Zoo activities. Also continued was
the dissemination of natural history and Park information by telephone
and correspondence. The Zoo library was reorganized. The photo-
graphic files are being completely reorganized.

Some 38 guided tours were conducted for groups of handicapped
children, visting schools and colleges, visitors from other zoos and
museums, and special guests and dignitaries. The section also co-
operated with the Friends of the National Zoo in various projects.

Friends of the National Zoo

Of prime importance to the Friends of the National Zoo is the
realization of means to enable them to acquire financial support and an
income for continuation of their educational aims and objectives. On
November 6, 1966, the President signed P.L. 89-772, which permits the
Friends of the National Zoo to operate concessions, the proceeds to be
used for research and educational work for the benefit of the Zoo. On
May 31, 1967, a contract was signed, authorizing the Friends to operate
a sales kiosk near the clock in the center of the Zoo.

The annual Zoo Night for members was held June 5. Members
toured the new hoofed-stock area and the two new buildings for delicate
hoofed stock. There were refreshments on the bird-house lawn and
a guitar concert by Charlie Byrd.
NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK 167

The official emblem and seal (line drawings of the white tigress,
Mohini) were produced and copyrighted. These are used to identify the
organization in numerous ways. Publication of the quarterly newsletter,
Spots and Stripes, was continued.

At the annual meeting on May 31, new officers elected for the coming
year were Timothy V. A. Dillon, president; Margaret W. Harlan,
vice president; Frank Ridgdill, treasurer; and Warren Iliff, secretary.
Outgoing officers were Malcolm C. Henderson, president; Timothy
V.A. Dillon, vice president; Luis Corea, treasurer; Mary Ellen Grogan,
secretary.

The Friends cooperated with the Zoo in “operation preg. watch,’
during which members generously volunteered their time for all-night
vigils of closed-circuit TV monitoring—watching for parturition in the
lioness Princess. The volunteer watching the monitor was instructed
to turn on the film tape-recorder at first sign of the birth process and to
notify veterinarian Clinton W. Gray. For a week Princess was watched
by Zoo personnel by day and by Friends volunteers by night. The
pregnancy unfortunately turned out to be a false one, but the watchers
were eager to participate again at any future time to assist the Zoo in
obtaining valuable footage on the behavior and birth processes of
captive exotic animals.

Construction and Improvements

A long-sought project for a continuous 24-hour scenic park road in
Rock Creek Valley to connect the Arlington Memorial Bridge and
Potomac Parks with Rock Creek Park has become a reality. The Zoo
bypass on the Rock Creek and Potomac Parkway, which provides the
missing link by carrying parkway traffic around instead of through the
Zoo, was dedicated on August 19, 1966. The project included a 400-
foot tunnel under Administration Hill and a bridge over Rock Creek at
Calvert Street. A parkway overpass at Harvard Street to accommodate
Zoo traffic is nearing completion.
168 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967

The hardy-hoofed-stock complex was completed and occupied during
the year. These quarters were designed for animals which require a
minimum of shelter and protection from the Washington weather, such
as the Cape buffalo, white-bearded gnu, zebra, Przewalski horse, and
llama. The site is built on a 34-acre area, with four separate buildings
laid out in a rectangular pattern. The area enclosed by the buildings is
used as a holding, or off-exhibit area. The perimeter area is divided
into six exhibit paddocks, all viewed across dry moats from the visitor
walk which circumscribes the complex. Building design of each of the
four shelters is the same, and the construction is similar to that used in
the deer area—masonry block with flat roofs on exposed laminated
wood beams. The loafing shed extends the full length of each shelter,
and back of it is the building, divided into a bull stall and a loafing
stall, the latter so arranged that it can be subdivided into three separate
stalls each the size of the bull stall. Service is through an alleyway
running along both axes of the complex.

The delicate-hoofed-stock complex, opened to the public on June 6,
1967, consists of two buildings, totaling 15,850 square feet, built on the
upper part of the three-acre sloping site. Landscaping and grading are
so designed that visitors can view the four delicate-hoofed-stock pad-
docks from the promenade roofs of the two buildings, and then proceed
via ramps and stairs to view the exhibits inside. This inside view is
from a visitor corridor which runs the length of, and connects, the
two buildings. Each building has three exhibit stalls, with the usual
adjacent retiring stall and keeper and service rooms and access. The
back (paddock) wall of each exhibit stall is a window wall that allows
the visitor to view the inside as well as the outside area, and gives a
feeling of spaciousness to the inside exhibit.

The delicate-hoofed-stock buildings are of poured concrete con-
struction with natural stone facing and trim on exposed surfaces. Since
delicate-hoofed stock are considered to be those animals which, in the
Washington area, require heated quarters in the winter and protection
from the extreme summer temperatures, the heating system for these
buildings is designed to provide a minimum temperature of 60° F.
during the winter, and one of the buildings is air conditioned. Planned
for exhibit in these buildings are dorcas gazelles, kudu, sable antelope,
and scimitar-horned oryx. Since the Zoo has pairs of three different
species of rhinoceros (white, black, and Indian) one of the enclosures
was modified to accommodate the white rhinos.

The trunk sewers and retention basin, started in January 1966, were
completed in June 1967, and Beaver Valley has again been opened to
the public.
NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK

Most of the new construction completed to date centers at the north
end of the Zoo between Connecticut Avenue (1) and the Elephant
House (10). Earlier construction includes the remodeled bird house (5),
great flight cage (6), deer paddocks (7), parking for 260 cars in lots
A and B (3 and 4), and the perimeter vehicular road (2). The recently
opened hoofed-stock area is a 7-acre complex consisting of two perma-
nent buildings for delicate stock (9) and four multi-stall shelters with
eight yards for hardy stock (8). It is expected that 50 to 60 animals will
eventually be accommodated in this area as the herds develop. (Blue
Ridge Aerial Survey photo.)

170 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967

Plans for the hospital, research, service, and supply complex are
completed and have been approved by the various reviewing agencies.
Bids will be opened early in August and construction should start some
time in fall 1967.

The fiscal year 1967 Appropriation Act contained an item of
$1,589,000 for improvements at the National Zoological Park, to
include the multi-climate complex. Plans for this building were started
by the architects after approval was obtained from the various review-
ing Commissions. Construction is expected to start in late spring 1968.

Beautification of the Park continued under head gardener John
W. Monday with the planting of 65 trees, 2000 evergreens, 4000 bulbs,
and 5,100 annuals. Gifts of plants were received from Mrs. Lyndon
B. Johnson, and also from the Arboretum, the D.C. Water Works,
Botanical Gardens, Glendale Nursery, Glendale Hospital, and Walter
Reed Hospital. An account of the work of the grounds department
is contained in the Appendix (see note, p. 156).
Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute

Martin H. Moyninan, Director

Be

SS C

pcoiyrenes HAVE CONTINUED TO EXPAND at the Smithsonian Tropical

Research Institute essentially along the same lines as in previous
years, but with some slight changes of emphasis. Among these activi-
ties—research by the staff and support of research by visiting scientists
and students, education and training, and the encouragement and
practice of conservation—it is the latter two that have shown the
greatest relative increase.

STRI scientists and students have begun long-term research on several
biological processes or problems which are particularly conspicuous in
the Tropics (e.g., the evolution of social behavior and social systems,
and the relationship between species diversity and evolutionary “‘suc-
cess”). We are beginning to get results from these studies. Unfortu-
nately, however, some of these results are difficult to interpret, due
largely to the fact that the studies have been confined to Central and
South America. We have been able to identify some distinctive charac-
teristics of organisms and biotas in these regions, but we do not know if
they are typical of the Tropics as a whole or only of the New World.
Thus, we badly need comparative data from other parts of the Tropics,
and ideally, from the tropical parts of all the major zoogeographic
realms.

During the latter part of the year, the staff of the Institute began to
develop plans for research in the Old World Tropics and for coopera-
tion with other scientific institutions in that area. In order to establish
preliminary contacts, and to acquire the necessary background informa-

17]
172 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 71967

tion, Rand and Robinson attended an international symposium on
tropical biology at Varanasi, India, and then investigated possible
research areas in Ceylon. Rand also visited Malaya. Moynihan subse-
quently made a more extensive survey of research possibilities in
Senegal, the Ivory Coast, the Congo (Kinshasa), Madagascar, Assam,
Ceylon, Thailand, and the Territory of Papua-New Guinea. It is hoped
that these efforts will produce practical results in the form of new
research programs by the end of FY 1968 or the beginning of FY 1969.

In November, the Smithsonian Institution held a conference on
tropical biology in Panama City attended by more than 60 outstanding
scientists from the U.S. and Latin America. In the course of the discus-
sion, an attempt was made to determine the most urgent and important
problems confronting biologists in the Tropics. Special attention was
paid to the possible effects of a new sea-level canal joining the Atlantic
and Pacific somewhere across Central America or northern Colombia.
It was resolved that an urgent need exists to begin long-term ecological
studies now, especially in the marine environments. Under present
world conditions of exploding human populations and the limitations
of the resources that support them, it is essential that any environmental
manipulations as significant as the proposed Atlantic-Pacific sea-level
canal be based on a comprehensive background of fundamental
information.

Research and Publication

In terms of research in progress or completed at STRI, the study of
tropical biology has provided and continues to provide results of both
theoretical value and practical usefulness. From a purely scientific
point of view, tropical biotas are interesting primarily because they
are so rich and varied; they include much larger numbers, and a greater
diversity, of species than the biotas of any other regions of the world:
and the ecological and behavioral relations among species are more
complex, on the average, in the Tropics than anywhere else. Convincing
evidence points to the Tropics as the place of origin and principal center
of evolution of most groups of organisms. It would appear, too, that new
and major types of adaptations to new ways of life are more likely
to be evolved by tropical species than by species of other regions, and
Tropical species seem to be more successful in invading other regions
than are species of other regions in invading the Tropics. As a result
of this combination of features, tropical biotas provide invaluable
opportunities for the analysis of such fundamental biological processes
as evolution, competition and cooperation among species and in-
dividuals, animal communication (with its implications for the origin
of human language), and the development of social organization.
TROPICAL RESEARCH INSTITUTE 173

Within the Tropics, the Panamanian region is particularly interesting
or several reasons. The isthmus itself is a bridge between two continents.
It is the route by which species of northern origin move south, and
southern species move north. Thus, it is a living laboratory for the
study of zoogeographic change. The fact that the Atlantic and Pacific
are only 50 miles apart in central Panama is also significant. Nowhere
else in the world can the distinct floras and faunas of two oceans be
compared as easily and under such favorable conditions.

The practical implications of basic research in the Tropics are less
obvious but not less important. The human societies of tropical regions
are developing and expanding at breakneck speed. They will need to
learn a great deal more about their environments, if they are to manage
these environments successfully and thus attain the goals they have
set for themselves.

In view of all these facts, it is not surprising that the Panamanian
region attracts more and more scientists and students. And there is
every reason to believe that this increase will continue, or even ac-
celerate, during the next decade. The following tabulation shows the
number of visitors for whom the Institute provided appreciable
support during the past year.

PEINOMESCIOILISES 2 ie Shoes ea ie ~ Aenea tc 96
feretimate students). ": Same et. Seas. a > ESB
Mingerpraduate stugents: 2. fa jGaye cis - Sibu rues 27
Misetancaleasistants “04 Goethe Ses. 24: . Sts ne 13
Amateur biologists and members of natural history groups . _—-103
CULE oath CE Se an SS RMS SS are ste 91

UDA yen ts ete ei. . ge ReTOe Se FOO

Mention of a few of their projects may illustrate the range of activities
which the Institute has been able to facilitate, encourage, or support.

Owen J. Sexton, his associates, and graduate students from Wash-
ington University continued their researches on the factors regulating
reproduction in lizards, particularly anoles. Such studies are particu-
larly significant for they are revealing endogeneous cycles in repro-
ductive activity. This work was supported by the National Science
Foundation.

John W. Smith of the University of Pennsylvania and his students
investigated for several months the auditory communication patterns
among birds, especially flycatchers. This approach to the study of
animal behavior is rewarding, for it is demonstrating the various
evolutionary pathways by which essential information is encoded and
BARRO COLORADO

IsLAND: Wildlife
and behavior
studies

1, White-faced monkeys Cebus capucinus grooming.
2, Fulgorid bug showing “eye spots” on hind
wings. 3, Web-throwing spider.

2

4, Automatic camera
shows that agoutis, ro-
dents that resemble small
forest deer, fight with
their hind feet.

6 and 7, Caught by automatic camera, a family
of pacas feeding in the forest and a Jaguaroundi
Felts yagouaround: drinking from a forest pool. 8,
Phyllomedusa callidryas is one of the more than
30 species of frogs on the island.

PHoTos:
1, John Oppenheimer
2-8, Nicholas Smyth

5, Corythophanes cristatus,
one of the more than 22

species of lizards on the
Island.

176 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967

transmitted, and it also sheds light on the phylogeny of the organisms
themselves.

At the marine laboratories, Howard Winn of the University of
Rhode Island and his graduate students recorded and analyzed the
sounds produced by a variety of fishes, particularly marine catfishes.
The large concrete tanks of the Naos Island facility proved most
suitable for this research, which is supported by the Office of Naval
Research.

Eric Davidson of Rockefeller University continued his experimental
studies of gene activity in anuran oOgenesis. One local species, Engy-
stomops pustulosus, has proven particularly useful, and is yielding new
information on possible extranuclear synthesis of DNA, and the specific
roles of various cytoplasmic factors in repressing or activating portions
of the genome during ontogeny. This research is supported by the
American Cancer Society.

Various aspects of the biology of ants were investigated by several
researchers. Roger Akre, Washington State University, and his grad-
uate students spent several months studing the factors involved in the
movements of army ants (Eczton). Paul Kannowski, University of North
Dakota, studied the mating-flight behavior of several ant species. The
peculiar leaf-cutting ants (Atta) were studied by Bruce Haines of Duke
and Paul Martin of Michigan Universities. Haines investigated the
role that Atta plays in determining vegetational patterns. This is a
two-sided effect, for although these ants defoliate many plants, they
also fertilize the soil near their nests, adding phosphorus which is
scarce in the poor tropical soils. In cultivating fungus in their leaf
gardens, they manage to grow only one species to the exclusion of all
other fungi. Martin, a chemist, seeks to know how this remarkable
feat is accomplished.

Most of the subjects investigated by scientists of the Institute staff
(permanent resident scientists and graduate student interns) fall into
the fields of evolution, social behavior, communication, species di-
versity, and zoogeography. Unless specifically noted otherwise, the
research was supported from federal funds appropriated to the Smith-
sonian Institution.

Martin Moynihan continued his studies of social behavior among
Andean birds, supported by the National Science Foundation, and
of communication in Neotropical primates. He presented two seminars
at the University of Texas on the evolution of social and communica-
tion systems. Also, he was awarded the William J. Walker prize by
the Boston Museum of Science for outstanding achievements in biology.
TROPICAL RESEARCH INSTITUTE 177

Robert L. Dressler, on leave for the past year, served as executive
director of the Association for Tropical Biology. Despite heavy
administrative duties, he continued his research on the pollination
relationships between euglossine bees and orchids of the subtribe
Stanhopeinae. The peculiar adaptations in structure, flowering time,
and odor serve to attract the “right” kind, or kinds, of bees and
thus to supply the principal isolating mechanisms between many orchid
species. This relationship has been a major factor in orchid evolution.

A. Stanley Rand’s studies of the vocal communication in the frog
Engystomops pustulosus have now reached the stage where the entire
repertory has been cataloged. Experiments are in progress to determine
the information content and how this information is encoded. He also
continued his work on the selective forces affecting egg type and clutch
size in tropical reptiles in general. Rand became a member of the
editorial committee of the journal Copeza.

Michael H. Robinson, from Oxford University, joined the regular
scientific staff last year. Using monkeys and spiders as predators and
various insects as prey, he began a series of experiments investigating
the complex adaptations evolved in such interactions. Among the
many questions that he is posing is: do appendages common to all
insects serve as cues for prey recognition? Initial results suggest that,
like the marmoset Saguinus geoffroyi, predators can distinguish insect
prey only be features which are often concealed by the behavior and
morphology of cryptic insects.

Ira Rubinoff continued his studies of the evolution of isolating
mechanisms in certain species of Panamanian marine fishes. Working
with Rubinoff on various problems of the complex Panamanian fish
fauna was Richard Rosenblatt of the Scripps Oceanographic Institute,
who spent several weeks as a special consultant on Panamanian marine
fishes. Rubinoff presented a paper, ‘‘ Measurement of Isolation Achieved
Between Sympatric and Allopatric Combinations of the Genus Bathy-
gobius in Panama,” at a meeting of the American Society of Ichthyolo-
gists and Herpetologists. He was appointed associate in ichthyology at
the Museum of Comparative Zoology, Harvard University.

Neal Smith’s continuing experiments on the evolution of adaptations
for and against brood parasitism between several species of oropendolas
(Icteridae) and the parasitic icterid Scaphidura revealed an unexpected
result. Oropendolas who fail to discriminate eggs of Scaphidura from
their own, and therefore raise the young parasites, usually do so to
the detriment of their own offspring. Selection then favors increasing
discrimination by the oropendolas, and better mimicry by the Scaphi-
dura. Under certain conditions, however, selection may favor non-
178 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967

discrimination. In these cases, young oropendolas have a better chance
of reaching the fledging stage when they are raised in the same nests
with young Scaphidura, than when they are not. The balance between
discrimination and nondiscrimination appears to be delicate, and the
complex factors producing this unique situation are still being studied.

Marcel Hladik’s studies are showing an interesting parallel between
Old and New World monkeys in the correlation betwen the kinds of
food eaten and the microstructure of their digestive gut. Using light
and electron microscopy, Hladik is finding that the intestinal mucosa
very rapidly adjusts morphologically and histochemically to changes
in the types of food consumed. This is an important adaptation to
living areas where insect and fruit abundance may vary asynchronously.

Martin Naumann continued his study of several species of social
wasps (Protopolybia). Unlike many wasps and bees, the size of the nest
in these species is not indicative of the age of the nest, but rather of the
size of the founding swarm and this, in turn, is a function of the number
of queens present.

Significant progress in analyzing the social behavior of the white-
faced monkey Cebus capucinus was made by John Oppenheimer, whose
observations of how new groups form and how territorial rights are
established were of special interest.

Using automatic cameras in the Barro Colorado Island forest,
Nicholas Smythe has been able to obtain an almost complete record of
the behavior and ecology of the large caviomorph rodents, the agouti
Dasyprocta punctata, and the paca Agouti paca. Symthe’s detailed work
with these species show how the diverse social systems found in the
caviomorphs can be considered specific adaptations to particular fea-
tures of their environments.

National Academy of Science Fellow Howard Wright studied the
sexual behavior and other interactions of several species of grapsoid
crabs. These poorly known crabs exhibit remarkable geographic varia-
tion in certain features of their behavior which can be correlated with
predator pressure.

Estanislau da Silveira of Brazil, Organization for American States
Fellow at the Institute, completed a catalog of the endoparasites of the
anteater Tamandua. José Olazarri of Uruguay, another OAS Fellow,
began his studies of the molluscan fauna of Barro Colorado and the
behavior of the spiny rat Proechimys. He is also assisting Michael
Robinson with his work on spiders.

More than 20 papers by visiting scientists, based wholly or in part
upon the results of research at Institute facilities, were published last
year (a listing of earlier such works is to be found in Smithsonian
TROPICAL RESEARCH INSTITUTE 179

Information Leaflet 281, rev. August 1965). Papers by the staff are
listed on page 182.

Educational and Related Programs

Under the continuing fellowship program with the Science and
Educational Division of the Organization of American States, the fellows
are learning modern techniques of field biology under the guidance
of the resident members of the Institute staff. Field classes of the
Organization for Tropical Studies visited the Institute’s facilities and
conducted exercises at the marine laboratories, and a class of students
from Harvard, under the direction of Giles Mead, curator of fishes
at the Museum of Comparative Zoology, spent several weeks studying
the marine and fresh-water organisms of the area. Senior members of
the Institute staff are assisting and to some extent directing the work
of the graduate student interns. They also provide informal guidance
to visiting students from other institutions.

A fellowship program sponsored by the U.S. Air Force was estab-
lished to bring scientists to Panama and adjacent regions to investigate
the feasibility of doing extensive research in the Tropics. The first are
expected to arrive early next year.

The past year was a period of major construction and renovation
at the Barro Colorado Island laboratory. Ernest Hayden, formerly
master sergeant, U.S. Army, was appointed station manager. A new
building was finished which will serve as a residence for a staff scientist
and as additional dormitory space for visiting scientists. Eastman
Kodak’s experimental facility was relocated and the old Kodak
building was converted into a combination residence and laboratory
area. A new house and a screened-in dining building were constructed
for the labor staff. The station acquired the new 40-foot fiberglass-
hulled vessel James etek II to supplement and eventually to replace
the present wooden vessel which has been in service for many years.
The boat dock area, which had been filling up with stream sediment
for a number of years, was cleared and dredged. The library, possibly
the best in the Neotropics, continued to expand and is now more than
8000 volumes. Mrs. Alcira Mejia was promoted to full-time librarian,
and Mrs. Nicholas Smythe was appointed library assistant.

The marine laboratories, opened last year, were expanded and
their facilities improved. Archibald Turner, formerly of the U.S.
Army Tropic Test Center, was appointed manager of both stations.
Construction was completed at the Galeta Island station, and now
both marine laboratories are fully operational. The Naos Island
station was enlarged to include another building, which will serve
180 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967

BARRO COLORADO ISLAND, CANAL ZONE

ANNUAL RAINFALL 1925-1966

Total Station Total Station
Year inches average Year inches average
1925 104. 37 1946 87. 38 108. 81
1926 118, 22 113. 56 1947 71.92 107. 49
1927 116. 36 114. 68 1948 83. 16 106. 43
1928 101. 52 Pt35 1949 114. 86 106. 76
1929 87. 84 106. 56 1950 114. 51 107. 07
1930 76. 57 101. 51 1951 112,72 107. 28
1931 123. 30 104. 69 1952 97. 68 106. 94
1932 113. 52 105. 76 1953 104. 97 106. 87
1933 101. 73 105. 32 1954 105. 68 106. 82
1934 122. 42 107. 04 £55 114. 42 107. 09
1935 143. 42 110. 35 1956 114, 05 107. 30
1936 93. 88 108. 98 1957 97594 106. 98
1937 124. 13 110. 12 1958 100. 20 106. 70
1938 117. 09 110. 62 1959 94. 88 106. 48
1939 115. 47 110. 94 1960 140. 07 107. 41
1940 86. 51 109. 43 1961 100. 21 106. 95
1941 91. 82 108. 41 1962 100. 52 107. 07
1942 111.10 108. 55 1963 108. 94 107. 10
1943 120. 29 109. 20 1964 Is. 22 107. 28
1944 111. 96 109. 30 1965 92. 80 106. 91
1945 120. 42 109. 84 1966 111. 47 106. 80

COMPARISON OF 1965 AND 1966 RAINFALL
[In inches]

Accumu-
Total 1966 lated

——__—._— ‘Station Years of excess or = excess or

Month 1965 1966 average record deficiency _— deficiency
January 2. 78 3. 23 227 41 +0. 45 +0. 45
February 0. 26 0. 15 1. 28 41 —0. 11 +0. 34
March 0. 21 0. 44 ja i 4] +0. 23 +0. 57
April 1. 08 3. 20 3. 48 42 4-2..12 +2. 69
May 9. 88 6. 88 10. 89 42 — 3.00 —0. 31
June 8. 13 13. 65 10. 90 42 5.02 +5. 21
July (pa e O27 Wey 42 + Ia2 +6. 73
August 9. 90 14.17 12. 48 42 +4. 27 +11. 60
September 11.91 9. 93 10. 34 42 —1.98 +9. 02
October 10. 85 12. 81 13. 68 42 a aoe +10. 98
November 23. 00 23: 72 18. 16 42 5 UNE +11. 70
December 7.05 14. 02 10. 60 42 +6. 97 +18. 67
Year 92.80 111.47 106.80 +18. 67 +4. 67
Dry Season 4. 33 702 8. 18 +2. 69 —1.16

Wet Season 88.47 104.45 98. 62 +15. 98 +5. 83
TROPICAL RESEARCH INSTITUTE 181

as laboratory and office space for resident and visiting scientists.
Construction was completed on several concrete tanks, each 29’ x 23’ x
8’ deep, in the largest building of the Naos Island complex. The tanks
now have running sea water and are being used for the study of large
and pelagic organisms. The second floor of the original building, the
“bunker laboratory,” was remodeled to provide a seminar hall, office
and laboratory space for visiting researchers, and an area for the storage
of specimens. An 18-foot fiberglass outboard skiff and two 4-wheel-
drive vehicles were other additions which have greatly facilitated
field work.

Dr. Peter Glynn, who was engaged to begin a marine invertebrate
program, is expected to arrive early next year. Three new research
associates were appointed: John Eisenberg of the National Zoo;
Paulo Vanzolini of the Departmento de Zoologia in Sao Paulo,
Brazil; and Patricio Sanchez of the Catholic University of Chile.

Conservation

The Institute continued to preserve the areas under its control
but because poaching pressure has increased, especially from boats,
the legal limits of the Barro Colorado Island Preserve were extended
to include a wide band of water around the island. The new boundary
is being marked by signs.

All physical facilities of the STRI are located in the Panama Canal Zone:
Barro Colorado Island, with its laboratory for research on terrestrial and
fresh-water organisms; marine biology laboratories on Naos Island and
Galeta Island, both connected with the mainland by causeway; a tract
in the Navy Pipeline Reservation; and an office in Ancon.

182 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967

The staff continued to encourage, both formally and informally,
conservation practices in the Republic of Panama. Martin Moynihan
was made a member of the Comisién Nacional de Proteccién de la
Fauna Silvestre. He also gave advice on the management of reserves
in Madagascar and New Guinea.

Guy A. Ramanantsoa, chief of the Forestry Bureau of the Malagasy
Republic, visited Barro Colorado in order to make personal observa-
tions of conservation practices. He also conferred with members of
the Reforma Agraria on the types and extent of exploitation of Panama’s
natural resources.

Acknowledgments

The Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute can operate only
with the excellent cooperation of the Canal Zone Government and the
Panama Canal Company, the U.S. Army and Navy, and the govern-
ment authorities of the Republic of Panama. Thanks are due especially
to Gen. Robert W. Porter Jr., Commander, U.S. Armed Forces,
Southern Command; Executive Secretary of the Canal Zone Paul M.
Runnestrand and his staff; Lt. Col. Jack G. Null, Post Commander,
Fort Amador, Canal Zone; the customs and immigration officials of
the Canal Zone; the dredging division and police division of the Panama
Canal Company; Comdr. K. L. Robinson, Commanding Officer
Naval Security Group; the 605th Air Commando Squadron, Howard
Air Force Base; the U.S. Army Maintenance Division; and C. C.
Soper of Eastman Kodak Company.

Publications

DreEssLtER, R. L. Nomenclatural notes on the Orchidaceae III.
Taxon, vol. 15, pp. 241-242, 1966.

Some observations on Gongora. Orchid Digest, vol. 30,
pp. 220-223, 1966.

MoyniHAN, M. H. Communication in the titi monkey. Journ.
Zool. Lond. 150: 77-127. 1966.

Ranp, A. S. The relation of size and distance jumped in Bufo marznus.
Herpetologica, vol. 22, no. 3, pp. 206-209, 1966.

Aspects of the ecology of the iguanid lizard Tropidurus

torquatus at Belém, Par4. Smithsonian Misc. Coll., vol. 151, no. 2,

pp. 1-16, 1966.

Running speed of the lizard Baszliscus basiliscus on water.

Copeia, 1967, no. 1, pp. 230-233.

, and Ranp, P. J. Field notes on Anolis lineatus in Curagao.

Studies on the Fauna of Curacao and other Caribbean Islands,

vol. 8, pp. 112-117, 1967.

Radiation Biology Laboratory

W. H. Kiem, Director

a SUN IS THE principal source of all energy required for life on the
earth. Radiant energy from the sun is trapped by pigments and
converted to potential chemical energy. Food produced by this process
of photosynthesis is either stored or utilized immediately for the growth
and development of biological systems.

Organisms not only derive their energy supply from the process of
photosynthesis, but also use signals from sunlight to regulate and con-
trol their rates of growth and development. Most of these ‘“‘regulatory”’
responses use short-duration or low-energy light signals in contrast to
photosynthesis, in which large amounts of energy are captured and
stored.

The research of the Radiation Biology Laboratory (RBL) is directed
toward understanding the cellular and subcellular mechanisms and
processes by which organisms utilize radiant energy from the sun for
their growth and development. This research has been directed into
four main areas: (1) Regulatory biology—physiology of developmental
responses to light; (2) regulatory biology—biochemical processes of
developmental responses to light; (3) measurement of solar radiation;
and (4) carbon dating—measurements and research techniques.

Regulatory Biology—Physiology

Growing cells of the moss Physcomitrium turbinatum utilize light signals
for regulating their growth rate as well as orienting the direction of
their growth axis. These moss cells are a potentially important tool for

183
184 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967

studying the mechanism by which light controls growth because single
cells can be examined and their responses measured.

Detailed action spectra, the determination of the relative sensitivity
of different quality light stimuli, for both growth and oriented growth
responses have been measured. Such action spectra measurements
provide information about the nature of the pigments present which
absorb light stimuli and regulate growth. For red wavelengths the
growth action spectrum matches closely the zn vivo absorption spectrum
of a single moss filament. A major peak at 680 nanometer (nm) and a
shoulder at 640 nm are characteristic of absorption by chlorophyll.
For blue wavelengths, however, where there is appreciable chlorophyll
absorption, there is no photogrowth response.

Moss cells of Physcomitrium also exhibit a positive directional photo-
orientation. An action spectrum determined by a null balancing method
in which a filament grew between two light sources and indicated the
relative effectiveness of the two beams, indicated maximum effectiveness
in the far-red at 730 nm with a broad region of effectiveness extending
from 600 to 800 nm. A significant fact is that the shape of the action
spectrum determined for photo-orientation depends upon the quality
of light being used as a reference beam. This fact suggests that probably
two pigment systems are being utilized by the moss cells to regulate
growth. It is postulated at present that these two pigment systems are
chlorophyll and phytochrome which interact to regulate both growth
and photo-orientation of growth.

Pollen from higher plants can be germinated and grown under
laboratory conditions and the elongation rate of the pollen tube as
well as mitosis of the tube nucleus can be measured. The effect of
light on the elongation growth of pollen tubes has not been studied
previously. Pollen of flowering plants has an advantage for the study
of light-controlled growth in that it is a one-celled structure which
does not show the presence of a chloroplast or chlorophyll. Thus, it is
a favorable material for the study of phytochrome-mediated responses
without the complication of photosynthesis of chlorophyll-mediated
responses. Pollen tubes grown on lactose-agar medium were exposed to
red and far-red monochromatic irradiation. Growth measured after 3, 4,
and 6 hours and compared to controls kept in the dark indicated that
both red and far-red stimulate growth elongation, and that far-red was
more effective in stimulating growth (dark 131 +34 yw; red 196+36 yu;
far-red 308+ 59 uw in 4 hours).

Seeds of higher plants are also known to be sensitive to red and
far-red light in controlling their germination. Some seeds require a
red-light exposure before they will begin to grow even if all other
environmental conditions are favorable for growth. This light sensi-
RADIATION BIOLOGY LABORATORY 185

tivity for germination is apparently determined by the relative amounts
of red and far-red in the light to which the maturing seeds are exposed.
Seeds of the mustard Arabidopsis thaliana have been grown to maturity
under rigidly controlled environmental conditions exposed to either
fluorescent lamps alone or fluorescent plus incandescent white lamps.
Seeds grown under fluorescent lamps (relatively rich in red energy)
appear to lose much of their light requirement and as high as 40%
germinate in the dark; however, seeds matured under fluorescent plus
incandescent lamps (rich in far-red) do not germinate in the dark for
long periods of time. Similarly, it has been found that there is also a
quantitative difference in light sensitivity in which much more energy
is required to produce germination in fluorescent-grown seeds than in
fluorescent- plus incandescent-grown seeds. The relative amounts of
the two absorbing forms of phytochrome in the mature seeds are indi-
cated as the controlling mechanism, and experiments are continuing
to determine the effects of temperature, photoperiod, spectral quality
and time of after-ripening upon the subsequent light sensitivity of the
seeds.

Regulatory Biology—Biochemistry

The influence of light on phosphate uptake and incorporation in
corn leaves was studied. Corn-leaf sections 2 cm. long grow and unroll
when floated on aqueous solutions and exposed to red light. Radio-
active phosphate can be added to these solutions and the incorporation
of phosphate can be measured and compared with the physiological
growth responses controlled by red light. Organic phosphate determined
by colorimetric methods and P*® counted electronically, for irradiated
compared to dark sections, gave ratios of 1.03-+0.16 for organic phos-
phate and 1.04+0.11 for P%*. Several factors which might influence
the uptake and incorporation rates were tested. Among these variables
were the developmental stages of the corn seedlings employed, hydra-
tion status of the excised leaf segments prior to irradiation, and amend-
ments to the H;P%*O, solution including buffers, various salts, and
sugars. No significant differences between irradiated and control plants
were found and the average ratio (irradiation/control) for all experi-
ments was 0.99+0.14. It is concluded that at the present time no
significant effects of light on phosphate uptake and incorporation can
be demonstrated.

Chloroplast development and differentiation can be controlled by
light and offers a good in vitro system for studying the mechanisms
by which differentiation occurs. Chloroplasts from developing bean
leaves incorporate the radioactively labeled amino acid leucine into
186 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967

protein. During the past year it has been found that at the end of a
one-hour incorporation period, half the radioactive protein formed is
in a soluble fraction (100,000 * g for 60 minutes) and half is sedi-
mented as an insoluble fraction. Only a small portion of the radio-
activity in the insoluble fraction is sedimented with free ribosomes
(30,000 to 100,000 X g for 60 minutes) while 75% can be sedimented
at 6,000 X g for 30 minutes. Repeated washing with water removes
only a portion of the radioactivity in the 6,000 X g fraction. The
radioactivity remaining is associated with chlorophyll when centri-
fuged in a sucrose density gradient. Also, the addition of unlabeled
leucine to chloroplasts incorporating labeled leucine, followed by
continued incubation under incorporation conditions does not remove
radioactivity already incorporated into either the soluble or insoluble
fraction. It is concluded that the zn vitro protein synthesizing system
is producing both soluble and lamellar chloroplast proteins. The data
also suggest the existence of two separate incorporation sites since the
soluble fraction does not act as precursor for the insoluble fraction
and vice versa.

Isolation and chemical characterization of pure phytochrome from
dark-grown rye seedlings has continued, and improved yields and
more reproducible extraction methods have been developed. The
question of how many species of phytochrome subunits are present
was resolved by fingerprinting the peptides released by trypsin; 34 to
41 peptides were released. Amino acid analysis indicated that phyto-
chrome contained 100 trypsin-sensitive bonds per 100,000 molecular
weight units. Thus the chemical molecular weight of the subunit is
34,000 to 41,000. This is in good agreement with the physical molecular
weight, 36,000, which was determined by high-speed equilibrium

Electron micrographs of bean chloroplast as it appears (top) when pieces of
leaf are fixed and (middle) when a preparation of freshly isolated chloroplast
is fixed. Freshly isolated chloroplasts such as this are used to study chloroplast
protein synthesis. In these preparations the chloroplasts appear the same as
those from intact leaves, except that they are slightly swollen. Protein synthesis
by these chloroplasts is not prevented by an enzyme which degrades ribonucleic
acid.

Fragments (bottom) of two chloroplasts from a preparation of isolated chloro-
plasts which has been incubated at 25° C. for 1 hour before they were fixed
show severe disruption when compared with chloroplasts in leaves, or with
freshly isolated chloroplasts. Protein synthesis by these disrupted chloroplasts
is prevented by an enzyme which degrades ribonucleic acid.
RADIATION BIOLOGY LABORATORY 187

rit
“abe
vax

188 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967

centrifugation of the ultimate subunit. Thus, only one species of phyto-
chrome subunit exists in the aggregate which was isolated. If two or
more subunits existed then a multiple of 36 peptides would be expected.

Flectron microscopic examinations of pure phytochrome which had
been prepared for examination in white light gave variable results.
In some cases fibers and large symmetrical aggregates were observed.
In other cases small five-membered rings of subparticles 20 angstroms
in diameter could be observed. When phytochrome was prepared
under green plus far-red light none of the five-membered small aggre-
gates could be observed. If an aliquot of the same phytochrome solution
was treated with red light, immediately before preparation for micro-
scopy, many of the small five-membered aggregates could be seen.
A tentative aggregation hypothesis has been constructed to explain
these results. In the postulated system the subunit has a molecular
weight of 36,000 and aggregates into pentamers of 180,000 m.w. These,
in turn, aggregate into tetramers (m.w. approx. 800,000) consisting of
20 subunits.

Many biological responses require a time-measuring system and it
has been postulated that the dark reversion of the far-red absorbing
form of phytochrome to the red absorbing form might be such a time-
measuring device. For this reason the kinetics of the dark reversion of
pure rye phytochrome zn vitro have been studied. The absorption
spectra of solutions initially in the far-red absorbing form were measured
after various periods of time in the dark. The temperature was main-
tained at 25° C. and the pH at 7.5 to 7.9, while in the presence of
sodium chloride at concentrations of 0.005 to 0.5 M, and in the presence
of air. Within one hour 50% of the maximum red absorption at 660 nm
which could be obtained by driving the system with far-red irradiation,
had reappeared, with a concomitant loss in the absorption at the
far-red maximum (730 nm). The kinetics of this dark reversion suggest
a system more complex than a first-order reaction.

Solar Radiation Measurements

Measurements of total sun and sky short-wave radiation have
continued, using an automatic system sampling once every 3 minutes
for 100-nm bandwidths from 0.29 to 2.5 yw. Six new detectors, modified
pyranometers, with an internal electrical heating current for calibra-
tion, have been constructed and installed, along with new amplifiers.
Data for daily and seasonal fluctuations of radiant energy are being
collected with this system that are correct to +1% for the six 100-nm
spectral bands being monitored. The sensitivity of the system has
been increased to 0.01 Langley/minute.
James E. Mielke (left) and Austin Long collecting water samples at Tuborg
Lake on Ellesmere Island. Knudsen bottles are lowered with the hand winch
through an 8-inch-diameter hole in the ice to the sampling depth, a messenger
dropped along the line closes the bottle, and the sample is drawn up. At
least 20 liters are collected from each depth.

Correlative studies of plant growth are being made with several
day-length sensitive plants in the greenhouse and control environment
rooms. Responses occur in both vegetative and floral structures (such
as internode length, pod formation, tillering or floral development)
as a function of the direction of changing day length and the relative
red to far-red energies present.

Day neutral plants such as the Black Valentine bean, exhibit little
sensitivity to red to far-red ratios under the experimental conditions
employed. Flowering occurs in all three growth areas. Internode
development appears to be sensitive to day length, in that the lower
internodes are inversely related to the length of day, whereas the
upper internodes are directly related to day length.

In long-day plants such as Wintex barley, there appears to be a
high degree of sensitivity to both red to far-red ratios, as well as to the
direction of the changing day length. Tiller formation is comparable
in all three growth areas. Node development and its associated floral
maturation, however, are to be found only in those areas where there
is an appreciable amount of far-red present. Floral maturation decreases
very rapidly in these two areas as the day length diminishes.
190 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967

Carbon Dating

The carbon-dating section of the laboratory has continued to provide
age determinations of samples submitted. During the past year approxi-
mately 80 samples were dated.

Field studies were made on Ellesmere Island, Northwest Territories,
to determine the age of trapped seawater at the bottom of Lake
Tuborg. Lake Tuborg, at the head of Greely Fiord, was formed when
a glacier advanced across the fiord. At present, water of about 25 parts
per million salinity lies in the bottom 60 meters while the upper 60
meters is fresh water. Temperature and salinity profiles indicate no
complete mixing since the time of lake formation. Carbon-14/carbon-12
and carbon-13/carbon-12 ratios from analyses on dissolved bicarbonate
from the lake and from a nearby fiord indicate that the salt water in
the bottom of the lake has been trapped there for about 3,000 years.

Staff Activities

David L. Correll attended, as delegate, the Antarctic Oceanography
Symposium in Santiago, Chile, in September 1966.

During September and October 1966, William H. Klein was one of
the eight lecturers at the five-day Solar Radiation Symposium at the
Nationa! Physical Laboratory in Jerusalem, Israel, where he presented
the paper, ‘‘Variation in Spectral Quality of Solar Radiation and
Biological Responses,’ and discussed with Harry Z. Tabor, and
officials of Hebrew University, the feasibility of setting up a solar radia-
tion station in Israel to measure the spectral quality of daylight.

At the Biology Department, Western Reserve University, Cleveland,
Ohio, in March 1967, Maurice M. Margulies gave a seminar, ‘“‘Amino
Acid Incorporation into Protein by Developing Chloroplasts.”

At the annual meeting of the Association of Southeastern Biologists
in Columbia, South Carolina, in April 1967, Te-Hsiu Ma presented
a paper, “The Red and Far-red Light Effects on the Pollen-tube
Elongation and Pollen Germination in Tradescantia.”’

In May 1967, Bernard J. Nebel and David L. Correll participated
in the Symposium “Growth and Development—Form and Function”
that officially opened the new Michigan State University — Atomic
Energy Commission Plant Research Laboratory at East Lansing,
Michigan.

Several visiting scientists were invited to present current results of
their work. These included:

N. K. Boardman, Division of Plant Industry, C.S.I.R.O., Canberra,
Australia, was invited to come to Washington in October to consult
RADIATION BIOLOGY LABORATORY 19]

with Margulies and to give a seminar on ““The Photochemical Systems
of Photosynthesis’.

David Dennison, Department of Biology, Dartmouth College, Han-
over, New Hampshire, was invited to consult in February 1967 with
the research staff of RBL and provide information for a bibliographic
search of Phycomyces research.

Donald S. Berns, Division of Laboratories and Research, New York
State Department of Health, Albany, New York, was invited to Wash-
ington to present a seminar on phycobiliproteins in cooperation with
the Washington area section of Plant Physiologists.

W. Shropshire assisted with a summer workshop on photobiology
at the Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory of Quantitative Biology during
June.

A significant teaching venture was initiated in cooperation with the
Consortium of Washington Area Universities. A series of 13 lectures
in photobiology was presented for which seminar credit was given to
students. Approximately 200 persons attended each lecture. The
speakers and their topics were:

Orientation— What is Photobiology?, W. Shropshire, Radiation Biology
Laboratory, Smithsonian Institution.

The Molecular Basis of Human Vision, George Wald, The Biological
Laboratories, Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts.

Comparative Structure of Photoreceptors, Jerome J. Wolken, Biophysical
Research Laboratory, Carnegie Institute of Technology, Pittsburgh,
Pennsylvania.

The Vertebrate Eye, George K. Smelser, College of Physicians and Sur-
geons, Columbia University, New York, New York.

Information Flow in Photoreceptors, W. A. Hagins, Laboratory of Physical
Biology, National Institute of Arthritis and Metabolic Diseases,
Bethesda, Maryland.

The Daily Photopertod in the Control of Annual Cycles in Animals, Donald
S. Farner, Department of Zoology, University of Washington,
Seattle, Washington.

Photoperiodism—FPlants, Sterling Hendricks, Mineral Nutrition Labora-
tory, United States Department of Agriculture, Beltsville, Maryland

The Photoreceptor Process in Lower Animals, Timothy Goldsmith, Depart-
ment of Biology, Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut.

Phototaxis in Microbes, Roderick Clayton, Section of Genetics, Develop-
ment and Physiology, Division of Biological Sciences, Cornell
University, Ithaca, New York.

Phototropism, George Curry, Department of Biology, Tufts University,
Medford, Massachusetts.
192 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967

The Molecular Basis of Ultraviolet Inactivation and Photoreactivation, Jane
K. Setlow, Oak Ridge National Laboratory, Oak Ridge, Tennessee.

The Energy Conversion Process in Photosynthesis, Daniel 1. Arnon, Depart-
ment of Cell Physiology, University of California, Berkeley, California.

Evolution of Photoreceptors, Richard M. Eakin, Department of Zoology,
University of California, Berkeley, California.

A 30-minute color TV film, ‘“‘Secrets of Life,’ describing the re-
search activities of the laboratory was prepared by the RBL staff and
Craig Fisher of NBC. The film was shown nationally several times and
has resulted in many requests from interested students about the field
of photobiology.

Scientists who joined the staff during the year are Dr. Elisabeth
Gantt, biologist, from Dartmouth Medical School, who will work on
membrane and pigment structure of algae. Chemist Vicente Julio
Medina, postdoctoral student from the University of Georgia, joined
the laboratory in January to work on light effects on nucleic acid and
nucleotide metabolism. Dr. Francesco Parenti, visiting postdoctoral
from the University of Milano, Italy, continued his work on protein
synthesis in chloroplasts this year. Director William H. Klein was
detailed to the Biology Branch of the United States Atomic Energy
Commission for one year beginning September |. During his absence,
Walter Shropshire was Acting Director.

Publications

Kein, W.H.; Epwarps, J. L.;and SHRopsHIRE, W., JR. Spectrophoto-
metric measurements of phytochrome in vivo and their correlation
with photomorphogenic responses of Phaseolus. Plant Physiol.,
vol. 42, pp. 264-270, 1967.

Lonc, Austin, and MiELkE, JAMEs E. Smithsonian Institution radio-
carbon measurements III. Radiocarbon vol. 8, pp. 413-422, 1966.

Marcuties, Maurice M. Effect of chloramphenicol on formation of
chloroplast structure and protein during greening of etiolated
leaves of Phaseolus vulgaris. Plant Physiol., vol. 41, pp. 992-1003,
1966.

————. Concerning the preparation of chloroplasts active in Hill and
photosynthetic phosphorylation activities from leaves of Phaseolus
vulgaris. Plant Physiol., vol. 41, pp. 1320-1322, 1966.

. Effect of chloramphenicol on chlorophyll synthesis of bean

leaves. Plant Physiol., vol. 42, pp. 218-220, 1967.

Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory

FRED L. WHIPPLE, Director

io OF THE ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY is reported in ten
discrete sections, but the broad program of research now in
progress is not easily divided. The Observatory strives to provide a
balance to the forward thrust of science by actively pursuing areas
that appear to be receiving too little attention elsewhere. In doing so
it often cuts through interdisciplinary boundaries as it probes the
frontiers of science.
Optical Astronomy

Site development at the Southwest Observatory on Mount Hopkins
moved rapidly forward during the year. Surveying and preliminary
layout for the access road were completed, and a pioneer road was cut
through to the ridge where the first large instruments are to be erected,
7600 feet above sea level. Thomas E. Hoffman, David W. Latham,
Charles A. Lundquist, Leonard H. Solomon, Stephen E. Strom, and
Kobert W. Noyes prepared detailed specifications for a 60-inch photo-
metric telescope to be placed on the mountain.

With William Liller and Richard M. Goody of Harvard and F. L.
Roesler of Wisconsin, Nathaniel P. Carleton and Ashok Sharma
obtained a good absorption spectrum of Mars with a triple Fabry-
Perot interferometer on the 61-inch telescope at Agassiz station.* !
From the spectrum they are calculating an accurate value for the CO,
abundance on the red planet. This group also studied CO, line profiles
on Venus for comparison with theoretical results.

*Unless otherwise noted, research is supported from Federal funds appropriated
to the Smithsonian Institution. The Observatory, by paying scientists’ salaries,
shares in the support of all research. Support from outside sources is detailed in
the notes on page 228.

193
194 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967——-ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY

Using the Harvard collection of over 500 24-inch Bruce plates that
provide almost continuous coverage from 1898 to 1950, Cecilia Payne-
Gaposhkin completed a systematic study of variable stars in the Small
Magellanic Cloud. A catalog and light curves of 1,592 stars were
completed and published this year.

In spring the Smithsonian Institution Press published a major work
of the Observatory, an atlas and catalog of the Large Magellanic Cloud.
Composed of 168 photographic charts and a 116-page text, The Large
Magellanic Cloud by Paul W. Hodge and Frances W. Wright presents
an historical survey, an identification atlas, reference tables, and a
complete bibliography.

Continuing his study of the Large Magellanic Cloud, Hodge dis-
covered 457 new star clusters and is nearing completion of a survey
of the ages of 1300 clusters. With F. Wright he studied 26 variables in
the Large Cloud to refine the period-luminosity relation for that galaxy.

In conjunction with his work at the University of Washington, Hodge
used photographic, photoelectric, and narrow-band filter photometry
techniques to survey H II regions in 90 galaxies. He investigated the
structure of dwarf and normal elliptical galaxies, normal and peculiar
irregular galaxies, and members of the local group to determine the
nature of galactic evolution.

An expedition to the Peruvian Andes resulted in successful observa-
tions of the November 1966 solar eclipse. In collaboration with J. M.
Beckers of Sacramento Peak Observatory and F. J. Low of the Uni-
versity of Arizona, Noyes measured the intensity distribution of 22-
micron, far-infrared radiation coming from the sun’s limb. With a
germanium bolometer on a 12-inch telescope, they discovered that the
expected limb brightening does not occur. The data indicate that the
temperature dip in the solar atmosphere is broader than was formerly
believed, and occurs higher above the surface.

The network of Baker-Nunn camera telescopes continued to yield
an abundance of satellite-tracking data. In fiscal 1967, more than
67,000 observations were made and reduced, and more than 30,000
films were precisely reduced. The program of simultaneous observa-
tions to tie together the geodetic datums to an accuracy of ten meters
made new progress. The inflation of PAGEOS-A and the apogee burn
of the Agena-D were photographed. The station in Shiraz, Iran, was
moved to Debre Zeit, Ethiopia; that in Curacao, Netherlands Antilles,
to Natal, Brazil; and that in Villa Dolores to Comodoro Rivadavia,
Argentina. Modified K-50 cameras for geodetic observations were
temporarily installed at the station sites in Iran and the Netherlands
Antilles.
RADIO ASTRONOMY 195

SAO’s laser tracking system operated successfully throughout the
year and produced about 1000 range observations of the three Ameri-
can and two French satellites that are equipped with retroreflectors.?
Carlton G. Lehr’s analysis shows that the error in present range
measurement is about one meter. This is one-tenth of the error associ-
ated with the Baker-Nunn camera. The construction of a more powerful
laser system that will permit daytime tracking was started.’ It will be
installed on Mount Hopkins.

Barbara Kolaczek analyzed the possibility of timing the passages of
artificial satellites in front of stars. The observed time of a star occulta-
tion can give an accurate topocentric position of the satellite. With
Lehr, she estimated the frequency of these phenomena for different
satellites, and investigated observational equipment that could be used.
Experiments have begun with the cooperation of Wright-Patterson Air
Force Base.

At the Cordoba Observatory in Argentina, Thornton L. Page ob-
tained the spectra of 10 southern galaxies, using the fast spectrograph
designed and built at Wesleyan University in 1961. The spectra of 17
galaxies were observed with a cascade image tube and the same
spectrograph. This technique increased the “speed” by a factor of 5
to 10. The spectra cover the range from 3900 to 7900 angstroms—
considerably farther into the infrared than is possible with photographic
plates.

Cooperative flare-star work with Sir Bernard Lovell at University
of Manchester, England, and O. B. Shea and C. S. Higgins at CSIRO,
Australia, has been continued by Solomon and the Director.* Data
from previous observing periods have been reduced to light curves,
and several large flares correlated with radio events. To aid in this
work, Solomon studied the limiting magnitude of the Baker-Nunn
cameras and the effects of sky brightness. He also completed light
curves of Nova Herculis 1963 and Nova Pyxidis, which were photo-
graphed with Baker-Nunn cameras.

Radio Astronomy

To study the observable universe at longer wavelengths, the Observ-
atory has been actively pursuing several promising programs in radio
astronomy. A significant event in June was the formation of the
Northeast Radio Observatory Corporation (NEROC), composed of
Boston University, Brandeis University, Brown University, Dartmouth
College, Harvard University, University of Massachusetts, Massachu-
setts Institute of Technology, University of New Hampshire, State
University of New York at Buffalo, State University of New York
196 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967—-ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY

at Stony Brook, Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn, Yale University,
and the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory. The Director is
a founding member of the Corporation. Formed to continue and
strengthen the work of the Cambridge Radio Observatory Committee
(CAMROC), the new corporation hopes to build a 440-foot paraboloid
antenna as the heart of a major radio-radar observatory. Such an in-
stallation would greatly enhance both the research efforts and the
teaching potential of academic and research organizations in the
eastern part of the United States.

A special study panel, under the direction of Hoffman, studied
methods for precisely surveying for CAMROC paraboloidal surfaces
300 to 500 feet in diameter. The actual radio shielding of mountainous
terrain was investigated in the field for CAMROC.

Through an agreement for a joint Harvard-Smithsonian radio
observatory, SAO is installing its 84-foot-diameter precision parabo-
loid at Harvard’s George R. Agassiz Station, to be operational in
October 1967. A design for an equatorial mounting was selected by
A. Edward Lilley and the SAO engineering department, and a flexible
multiple-purpose spectral-line radiometer was constructed.

Using the 60-foot radio telescope at the Agassiz station, Dale F.
Dickinson and Ben M. Zuckerman have worked with Patrick Palmer
and Hayes Penfield of Harvard College Observatory, under Lilley’s
direction, in the area of recombination lines of highly excited states of
hydrogen, helium, and other atomic species in the interstellar medium.
Mario D. Grossi, working with G. Richard Huguenin of Harvard Col-
lege Observatory, attempted to detect three recombination lines of
hydrogen near 22 megahertz. A switched-frequency radiometer was
developed by SAO for use in further observations.

Giovanni G. Fazio and Zuckerman have estimated the possibility of
successfully detecting interstellar quarks by means of a hyperfine line at
280 megahertz. A quark is a hypothetical elementary particle in some
fundamental physical theories.

Donald H. Menzel investigated the theory of radio emission from
transitions between high quantum levels in cosmic hydrogen. Deriving
exact formulas for many of the physical parameters involved and
extending Leo Goldberg’s theory to take into account simulated
emissions of negative absorptions, he continued with the quantitative
application of this theory to observational data.

Gamma-Ray Astronomy

Continuing its pioneering investigations in gamma-ray astronomy,
the Observatory has been analyzing data from the balloon flight
reported last year, preparing equipment for new experiments, and
GAMMA-RAY ASTRONOMY 197

The 84-foot steerable dish shown here being taken apart at Huntsville,
Alabama, is now being installed at the Agassiz Station in Harvard, Mass.,
where it will replace the 60-foot one formerly at Agassiz and will sit on the
same pedestal and be operated by the same machinery.
198 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967—ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY

making a theoretical prediction of the cosmic gamma-ray spectrum.®

Fazio and Henry F. Helmken analyzed more than four miles of
16-mm. motion picture film exposed during last, year’s high-altitude
balloon flight. The film showed that the video transmission of the spark
chamber tracks was excellent. Since no source of primary gamma radia-
tion was detected above the experimental limit, a new upper limit to
the flux of gamma rays from the Crab Nebula with energies above 100
million electron volts was established at 3.1>< 10-5 photons per square
centimeter per second per steradian. The flux observed from the quiet
sun was less than or equal to 7.4><10~°. A type-2 solar flare occurring
during the flight produced a flux less than or equal to 6 107° photons
per square centimeter per second per steradian, which is also a new
upper limit. The gamma-ray background flux at an altitude having
four grams of atmosphere per square centimeter above the instrument
and at 42° N. geomagnetic latitude was (1.90.2) 10-% photons per
square centimeter per second per steradian, and the energy spectrum
was measured in the region between 1.0 and 2.5 billion electron volts.

Calculations by Fazio, Floyd W. Stecker, and Sachiko Tsuruta have
indicated an important contribution to the cosmic gamma-ray spectrum
above 100 billion electron volts from the decay of nuclear isobars and
hyperons.

Construction is well advanced on a 34-foot-diameter light collector to
be installed on the 7600-foot ridge at Mount Hopkins. Fazio, Helmken,
and Trevor C. Weekes have estimated that the theoretical gamma-ray
flux from the Crab Nebula in the energy range of 100 to 1000 billion
electron volts is 10 times greater than the minimum sensitivity of the
instrument.

Theoretical Astrophysics

In collaboration with Peter D. Usher, of the Harvard College
Observatory, Charles A. Whitney formulated a model for stellar
pulsation in terms of a one-dimensional nonlinear oscillator.* Their
procedure simplifies the geometrical and mathematical treatment of
the problem so that the interesting physical aspects can be considered
in some detail. The prime motivation for undertaking this examination
is to bridge the gap between earlier work on the quasi-adiabatic linear
oscillations and elaborate numerical integrations. The former was
inadequate to answer many important questions, while the latter
incorporate nonlinearity but are too complex for physical interpretation.

Whitney completed a preliminary investigation of the formerly
pulsating star RU Camelopardalis and, in a qualitative discussion,
showed that the cessation of pulsation in this star is characteristic
of the phenomenon known as oscillational hysteresis.
THEORETICAL ASTROPHYSICS 199

In his general studies of the effect of magnetic fields on stars and
gaseous nebulae, Menzel found that magnetic forces play an important
role in the ejection of matter from stars and are significant in the
interpretation of certain kinds of variables, notably the long-period
variable stars.

Stephen E. and Karen M. Strom continued research in stellar
atmospheres and abundances. During the fall of 1966, he was a guest
investigator at the Mount Wilson and Palomar Observatories of the
California Institute of Technology, where he used the 60-inch Casse-
grain scanner to obtain spectrum scans of a large number of subdwarfs.
By using the luminosities and the effective temperatures deduced by
comparison of these scans with theoretical models, S. E. Strom was
able to determine the value for subdwarf helium abundances from a
comparison of the position of the subdwarfs in the H-R diagram with
computed evolutionary tracks.” The observations and analyses all but
rule out the total absence of helium in the primordial galaxy. If
correct, this represents an important boundary condition in discussions
of element production in the early stages of the galaxy or the universe
itself.

In conjunction with Judith Cohen, S. E. Strom found that convec-
tion plays an important role in determining the structure of subdwarf
atmospheres. Moreover, in contradiction to previous results, they
found an appreciable microturbulence for these stars.

S. E. Strom and Peter Conti of the University of California at Santa
Cruz found that for eight A stars in the Pleiades the strontium-to-
scandium line ratio represents a means of detecting stars having
metallic line characteristics even at temperatures near 10,000 degrees,
where spectroscopic detection by ordinary criteria is quite difficult.
Another interesting conclusion of this analysis was that the carbon
abundance in the extreme metallic line stars is down compared to
that in normal A stars, in analogy with the results for peculiar A stars.

S. E. Strom and Wolfgang Kalkofen continued their investigation of
departures from local thermodynamic equilibrium (LTE) in stellar
atmospheres.® To test for departures from LTE in A and B stars they
suggested a technique involving simultaneous measurement of the
Paschen and Balmer discontinuities.

Kalkofen studied the dependence of departures from LTE on effective
temperature and surface gravity, and the influence of the departures
on the continuous radiation of stars in spectral classes B to K. He finds
that with the departures the continuum radiation causes the atmos-
pheres to appear hotter and surface gravities higher than in LTE
models.
200 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967—-ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY

For G and K stars, S. E. Strom proposed that the ratio of fluxes in
the hydrogen free-free continuum to fluxes in the hydrogen bound-
free continuum would provide a sensitive test of departures from LTE.

George Rybicki continued his studies of the mathematical problems
associated with studies of stellar atmospheres. In collaboration with
D. G. Hummer of the Joint Institute for Laboratory Astrophysics,
Boulder, Colorado, he developed a computer program that determines
stellar spectral line profiles under rather general conditions. He also
investigated the effects of inhomogeneities in stellar atmospheres using
primarily analytical techniques, and developed a method of correcting
observed spectra for instrumental effects.

Charles J. Bartlett developed a simplified model of a shock wave in
a stellar atmosphere to study the interaction of the various collisional
and radiative mechanisms. Extending the recently developed weak
turbulence theories to account for the steep gradients and large ampli-
tudes found in shock waves, he also studied strong plasma instabilities
and the problem of shock waves in low-density plasmas such as the
interplanetary medium.

Jeffrey L. Linsky used the McMath solar telescope at Kitt Peak
National Observatory to observe the H and K lines of calcium in the
sun. Intensities of the calcium lines are being computed by solving the
coupled radiative transfer equations for the line source functions.

Eugene H. Avrett is analyzing the profiles of strong absorption lines
in solar and stellar spectra to provide a diagnostic technique to deter-
mine the thermodynamic and kinematic structure of solar and stellar
chromospheres. In collaboration with Rudolf Loeser, he developed a
computer program for the general calculation of line spectra produced
by an atmosphere with specified properties. It was used for a detailed
analysis of the lines of neutral sodium, where the sodium atom is
represented by eight bound levels and a continuum. Full consideration
is given to the individual processes that determine the populations of
atomic energy levels.

He is also studying the lines of neutral magnesium with Eric Chipman
and of neutral helium with Deane Peterson.

Studies of the silicon and metal absorption edges in the solar ultra-
violet by Owen J. Gingerich and John Rich of Harvard demonstrated
inadequacies of earlier models for the solar photosphere. In April,
Gingerich attended an international study week near Arnhem, Holland,
where he helped to formulate the new “‘Bilderberg Continuum Atmos-
phere.’ His detailed investigation of the solar ‘‘windows” undertaken
with Duane Carbon and Robert Kurucz showed that these spectrum
regions are clear of absorption lines; hence, the resolution of remaining
THEORETICAL ASTROPHYSICS 201

discrepancies between the predicted and observed solar continua
must be sought on other grounds.

In collaboration with Linsky, Gingerich computed idealized model
atmospheres for low effective temperatures; with the inclusion of a
better approximation for water-vapor absorption this represents a
step closer tc realistic M-type stars. An important result is that the
photospheres of these stars may exhibit temperature inversions at small
optical depths even if there is no dissipation of mechanical energy in
these regions.

Henri E. Mitler made a careful survey of the literature in search of
rate constants for all kinds of thermonuclear reactions. He investigated
a new hypothesis for the origin of the light elements and, in conjunction
with P. Mehta, continued the study of a possible model for supernovae
involving the interaction between the members of an evolving binary
star.

Tsuruta, in collaboration with J. W. Truran, W. D. Arnett, and
A. G. W. Cameron of NASA, studied the production of heavy elements
in expanding supernova envelopes. They found that typical conditions
estimated for these envelopes are very promising for element synthesis
by neutron capture on a fast time scale. She continued her work on
vibrating neutron stars and investigated the suggestion that some of the
energy extracted by the URCA process would be converted into thermal
energy to heat the star. She found that this heating does not significantly
increase the cooling times of neutron stars.

Myron Lecar investigated the dynamical evolution of galaxies
described by the collisionless Boltzmann equation. With Leon Cohen of
Hunter College of the City University of New York, he demonstrated
that the probability distribution for the positions and velocities of the
stars evolves to a distribution that is independent of time and depends
only on the energies of the stars. Also, it is, in general, not the Maxwell-
Boltzmann distribution.

In collaboration with Carlos Cruz Gonzales, he also investigated
the escape of stars from a cluster via two-body interactions. The third
body, necessary for the dynamics of the escape, is provided by the
remainder of the cluster. They have shown that high-velocity escapes
are possible and may explain the observed runaway stars. Lecar has
estimated that a significant fraction of the mass of the galaxy may be in
the form of stars with masses less than \) that of the sun; these stars
have very low luminosities during most of their lifetime. He points out
that it may be possible to observe these ‘“‘starlets’? while they are still
contracting from the interstellar gas.
202 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967——-ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY

Planetary Studies

Planetary investigations at the Observatory progressed along two
broad fronts: investigations of the earth as a planet, and research deal-
ing with the other major bodies in the solar system.

Considerable effort is being devoted to analyses of the earth’s atmos-
phere.” Luigi G. Jacchia and his group are continuing their studies of
the upper atmosphere based on the orbital analysis of artificial satellites.
During this year, eight satellites have been tracked by the Baker-Nunn
cameras specifically for this work, including the two atmospheric-
density satellites Explorer 19 and Explorer 24, which were launched for
Smithsonian’s drag-analysis project and related studies elsewhere.

The atmospheric-density variations that accompany geomagnetic
disturbances were considered by Jacchia, Franco Verniani, and Jack
Slowey. Using drag data derived from high-inclination satellites, they
found that at high latitudes the heating is systematically greater and
occurs with a smaller time delay than at low latitudes; there is no
discernible difference in heating or time delay from this cause between
the bright and the dark hemispheres.

Jacchia and Slowey completed a study of the diurnal variation from
1958 through 1966, covering a maximum and a minimum of solar
activity. A previous suggestion that the diurnal bulge might be elon-
gated in the north-south direction and anchored on the equator has
been definitely disproved, and the model of the bulge proposed by
Jacchia in 1964 was shown to be correct. The relative amplitude of the
diurnal temperature variation was somewhat smaller at sunspot
minimum and showed fluctuations that could not be accounted for
by solar activity. A large seasonal variation at high latitudes, found in
the drag of Explorers 19 and 24, was attributed to the formation of a
polar helium bulge in winter, caused by a subsidence in the turbopause.

Using radio techniques, Grossi is attempting to probe the ionosphere
out to several earth radii. He is prepared to measure propagation times
and path losses at several frequencies between 7.5 and 15 megahertz
from stations at magnetic conjugate points in Jupiter, Florida, and
Usahaia, Tierra del Fuego.

In addition to this observational work being done in the field, the
Observatory is conducting laboratory and theoretical investigations into
atmospheric phenomena.

Carleton continued his detailed study of the behavior of electrons in
the ionosphere, aimed at better understanding of the ways in which
energy originally vested in newly created photoelectrons finds its way
into thermal energy of the atmosphere. His calculations yielded numeri-
PLANETARY STUDIES 203

cal results that predict how the temperature of the bulk of the electrons
depends on the input of new electrons, and how the excitation rates of
various day-glow emissions may be related to the electron temperature.
With Ronald F. Woodman, he studied the problems of obtaining data
on the ionosphere through incoherent backscatter. Woodman has
returned to Lima, Peru, where he will apply this work in analyzing
results from the Jicamarca Radar Observatory. Tsuruta and Carleton
have begun to investigate the transfer of energy from one hemisphere to
the other by electron motions along the geomagnetic field lines.

Costas Papaliolios is studying the metastable states of atmospheric
gases. To determine electron impact excitation cross sections and life-
times of the various excited states, he designed a large-aperture ultra-
violet spectrometer of moderate resolution. He has also been working on
a determination of the lifetime of the a*r state of CO by absorption
spectroscopy.

Using a crossed-beam technique under high vacuum, Anthony R. Lee
is determining the cross section for the excitation of positive ions by
electrons at near-threshold energies. He finished building his equipment
and took preliminary data on the excitation of N,* ions by electrons, a
case that is of considerable astrophysical interest.

The influence of general relativistic effects on the orbits of satellites
was considered by James P. Wright and Brian G. Marsden, who
assumed an accuracy of one meter in the observations. In furtherance
of this research, they also determined the periods of long-period
comets, using Einstein’s and Newton’s theories, and found that the
differences in the results depend on when the observations are made.

The physical body of the earth is the object of intensive research by
Observatory scientists. Using its network of astrophysical observing
stations to supply observational data, the Observatory has developed a
strong program in satellite geodesy.” Geodetic Parameters for a 1966 Smith-
sonian Institution Standard Earth, announced last year, was edited by
Charles A. Lundquist and George Veis and published as Special Report
200. Veis, Antanas Girnius, Walter Kéhnlein, and Edward M.
Gaposchkin continued their analyses of satellite-tracking data and reduc-
tion methods. Improved observing techniques, using laser ranging
devices, are expected to yield more accurate results that will be
incorporated into an improved representation of the Standard Earth.
In the coming year, considerable effort will be devoted to the com-
parison of tracking systems.

During summer 1966, a weekly seminar convened at the Observatory
to review and explore the research opportunities offered by satellite
tracking. Papers presented were published in Special Report 236,
edited by Lundquist and Henry D. Friedman. This report showed that
Operating console and tape drives of the CDC 6400 computer, one of the
fastest calculating machines in the world, which was installed this year.
Among its principal uses are in connection with satellite tracking and geodesy
and with project Celescope.

the Observatory, with its new digital computer, was prepared, through
broadened capabilities and flexibility, to meet the challenge of ex-
panding national and international programs.

With Louisa Lam and Geraldine Mendes, Lundquist completed a
preliminary design study of an experiment that would measure at-
mospheric density and the departure from free-molecule flow at low
altitudes by placing two or more spherical artificial satellites in es-
sentially identical orbits. Lundquist also examined the relationships
between orbit determination and satellite altimetry.’ If the altitude of
a satellite above the ocean surface is determined by, say, laser ranging
from the satellite, this may be viewed as a measured relationship be-
tween a point on an equipotential surface of the geopotential and a
satellite position determined by the equations of motion derived from
the geopotential.

Other planets are also being investigated in detail by the Observa-
tory. Continuing their analysis of radar doppler spectroscopy of the
Martian surface, Carl Sagan and James Pollack have concluded that
the broader Martian canals are ridges or chains of mountains
transecting the bright areas.° From their studies of the physics
underlying the observational results of Martian polarimetry, infrared
PLANETARY STUDIES 205

spectrometry, and visible spectrophotometry, they conclude that a
principal, although not necessarily exclusive, constituent of the surface
material is ferric oxide polyhydrates. In a statistical analysis of Focas’
photographic photometry of the Martian wave of darkening, they have
concluded that biological models and windblown-dust models of the
seasonal changes are each allowed by the observations, although some
of the correlations found, such as that between the extent of darkening
and proximity to a bright area, are suggestive of the windblown-dust
model. Just those particles most likely to be moved by saltation on
Mars are the ones that are required to be moved according to the
windblown-dust model in order to explain the photometric and
polarimetric data on the wave of darkening.

With near-infrared spectral plates obtained in the 1965 opposition
by Hyron Spinrad, they have attempted to detect elevation differences
on Mars by differential carbon dioxide absorption, in order to test the
hypothesis previously made, on radar and other evidence, that the
dark areas have systematically higher elevations than the bright. The
sensitivity of this method does not yet appear to provide a useful check
of the elevation differences previously deduced.

With Joseph Veverka, Sagan calculated the expected ionization of
the Martian atmosphere due to the incidence of solar protons in the
absence of a Martian magnetic field. Proton ionization sources were
found to be comparable to those expected from solar ultraviolet and
X-radiation, suggesting that the 95-km. subsidiary electron density
maximum found in the Mariner-4 occultation experiment may be
due to solar protons. In that case, the major 120-km. maximum must
be an F, region.

In the laboratory, Bishun N. Khare, Sagan, and Pollack investigated
the possibility that water vapor condensing out of the Martian at-
mosphere before sunrise liquefies for a short time each day before
vaporizing. If this in fact occurs, it greatly enhances the prospects of
indigenous life and of propagation of microbes carried to Mars by
spacecraft.

Sagan, David D. Morrison, and Pollack successfully tested an in-
frared planetary camera, and began photographing the planets with the
82-inch telescope of McDonald Observatory. One initial result is an
excellent definition of the dark polar collar that follows the receding
polar ice cap in the Martian spring.

Pollack and Sagan have shown that the electric-discharge model
of Venus microwave emission is inconsistent with the reliable fraction
of the Mariner-2 microwave-experiment data. Sagan calculated the
mean surface temperature of Venus, independent of passive microwave
observations, from the difference between the radar and optical diame-
206 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967—-ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY

ters of the planet, the cloud-top temperature, and the deduced at-
mospheric temperature gradients, and came to a result of 700° + 150°K.
Using the Haystack facility of Lincoln Laboratory and the 140-foot
telescope at the National Radio Astronomy Observatory, Morrison and
Sagan have been making observations of Venus designed better to
determine phase and polarization values.

Fred A. Franklin and Giuseppe Colombo employed the computer to
obtain orbits of a particle of negligible mass moving under the attrac-
tion of two other bodies of arbitrary mass, particularly in cases where
resonances can occur.” This type of analysis is applicable to the problem
of the gaps in the asteroid belt at certain fractions of the period of
Jupiter, and to the gaps in Saturn’s ring caused by perturbations of the
satellite Mimas. Early results, with the perturber confined to a circular
orbit, indicate many encouraging features, showing that resonances do
indeed produce zones of instability at distances from the primary
corresponding to 1/M times the period of Mimas. For the two cases
mentioned, these investigators established the width of the gaps and
how the width is related to the mass ratio of the two primary masses.

Several times in the late fall of 1966 when the earth passed through
the plane of Saturn’s ring, Franklin used the Cassegrain spectrograph
at the Kitt Peak National Observatory to obtain spectra of certain of
Saturn’s satellites as they lay on the far side of the planet and their iight
skimmed over the ring plane on its way to the earth. Because several
spectrograms revealed no enhancement of the solar lines for those
elements that might conceivably have been present in the ring, he
set upper limits to the density of gas surrounding the ring. These in
turn gave limiting values of the density of charged particles sur-
rounding the ring and hence will allow discrimination between
several possible ring models in which electrostatic forces are called
upon to stabilize the ring thickness at some finite value.

Winfield W. Salisbury conceived a method for using the moon as a
focusing device for radio waves and as a medium for translunar com-
munications. He plans to test this hypothesis in the Apollo manned
spaceflight program.

Flight Experiments

Two artificial satellite missions involving Observatory scientists,
OGO 2 carrying a micrometeoroid experiment, and Gemini 12 with
a dust-collecting slide aboard, were successfully launched this year.
Several high-altitude balloon experiments and the OGO-D micro-
meteoroid satellite reached final planning stages. The flight payload
and ground support equipment for Project Celescope were completed
METEORITES AND COSMIC DUST 207

and are now undergoing acceptance tests at NASA; current plans call
for launching in 1968. The Director has been active on a committee
of the National Academy of Sciences that is considering the possibility
of a large orbiting telescope.

Robert J. Davis recalibrated Project Celescope’s secondary spectro-
photometric standard against a thermocouple standard.!° He found
that the sodium salycilate deposition technique yielded coatings with
non-flat spectral response. Decreases in sensitivity at the shorter wave-
lengths make it necessary to recalibrate the working standard every
two to four months.

Another high-altitude balloon experiment under the direction of
Fazio and Helmken is ready for flight in September 1967 to search for
high-energy solar neutrons with energy greater than 200 million
electron volts, which may be the cause of the single-particle tracks
detected in the spark chamber of the May 1966 flight.

Data from the OGO-2 micrometeoroid experiment were reduced
and analyzed by Carl S. Nilsson.'’ He found no genuine impacts in
over 700 hours of data. He therefore deduced that the number of
micrometeoroids heavier than 10~!” gram in the vicinity of the earth
must be less than 310~? particles per square meter per second
per 2 pi steradians. Nilsson also completed preparations for the July
launch of the micrometeoroid experiment of the OGO-D satellite.

Frances W. Wright and Paul W. Hodge are analyzing data from a
slide that was aboard Gemini 12. They have also completed tests on
two settling-plate collectors for use with balloons to collect dust at
altitudes of 110,000 feet. This study was made in conjunction with the
University of Washington.

Meteorites and Cosmic Dust

The Observatory is continuing its intensive investigations of matter
from space. Coming to us in the form of meteorites and dust particles,
these materials yield otherwise inaccessible information on past and
present physical processes in the solar system.

Studying the meteoritic content of interplanetary space, with em-
phasis on the interaction among the different types of particles and the
numerous dissipative processes that occur, the Director derived values
for the lifetimes of particles from a few microns to kilometers in dimen-
sion. It appears probable that comets can maintain the smaller material
in quasi-stable equilibrium. He is now concentrating his attention on
the physics of asteroidal bodies, with special regard to fragile, less
developed asteroids and to the question of the origin of asteroids whose
orbits cross that of the earth.
208 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967—ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY

Analyzing samples collected from 200-year-old Greenland ice,
Edward L. Fireman and Robert H. McCorkell have found that the
aluminum—26 and beryllium—10 they contain are the result of cosmic-
ray activity in the earth’s atmosphere.'! One possibility to account for
the absence of signs of solar-flare activity is that before entering the
atmosphere the particles coming from space must have been protected
by several inches of material. The nickel and cobalt contents relative
to that of iron indicate an influx to earth of 700,000 tons of material
per year.

Fireman analyzed the content of tritium, argon-37, and argon—39
in a sample of the St. Severin meteorite, which fell on June 27, 1966,
and found it to be similar to that of other freshly fallen meteorites.

The ratios of Sodium-22 to Aluminum-26 due to cosmic rays in-
tegrated over the meteoroid orbit in six recently fallen meteorites show
that the eleven-year cosmic-ray variation is smaller at the average
solar distance of most meteoroids than it is at the earth’s distance from
the sun.

Using electron-microprobe techniques, John A. Wood determined
the composition of igneous minerals in 10 of the 18 known carbonaceous
chondrites of type II. These bodies are of interest because they seem
to be samples of primordial planetary material in an almost perfectly
preserved state. The presence of igneous minerals indicates that high-
temperature events were associated with their formation; the mineral
compositions measured in this study yield information on the composi-
tion of the medium in which the high-temperature events occurred.
Most of the minerals Wood examined would have been at equilibrium
in a gas environment 10 to 20 times richer in oxygen than present
solar gases. Therefore, if the chondrites were formed in a primordial
gas nebula, a view held by many scientists today, oxygen must have
been very abundant in some localities. Perhaps a settling or concentra-
tion of primordial dust grains to the median plane of the early nebula
concentrated oxygen there in the form of solid Fe;0,. A concentration
about 5,000 times the mean would account for the measured mineral
compositions.

George H. Megrue analyzed the isotopic abundances of the light
rare gases and the potassium content in three hypersthene achondrites
and in olivine separates from six pallasite meteorites. He found that
the achondrites crystallized more than 3.2 billion years ago and were
never subjected to thermal metamorphism in the parent body. Neither
were they subjected to prolonged heating during the last 21 million
years, when they were exposed to cosmic rays. The pallasite meteorites,
believed to be samples from a core-mantle boundary in a larger body,
crystallized 4.2 billion years ago. These meteorites have been exposed
METEORITES AND COSMIC DUST 209

to cosmic rays for different periods of time, ranging from 40 million
to 300 million years.

The rate of mass loss from a body exposed to high-velocity, micron-
sized dust particles was investigated by Matthias F. Comerford.'? He
finds that brittle materials lose mass 100 to 1000 times faster than
ductile materials. Comparison of these results with erosion data in
the literature suggests that an increase in the size of the bombarding
particles increases the erosion rate significantly when the average
effective size of the projectile becomes comparable with the mean
distance between defects in the target. This is true even if the kinetic
energy remains constant.

Iron meteorites are usually categorized according to their internal
geometrical structure as hexahedrites, octahedrites, and ataxites. An
X-ray and metallographic examination by Comerford showed that the
distinction between several nickel-rich ataxites and octahedrites is
somewhat artificial, since the structural characteristics and crystal-
lographic orientation relationships are to a large extent carried over
from one class to another.

McCorkell and Comerford analyzed a 28-kilogram iron meteorite
recovered by Samuel W. Tishler in Deelfontein, South Africa. It proved
to be somewhat out of the ordinary since it is one of the few known
meteorites containing appreciable quantities of an iron-nickel carbide
called cohenite.

To gain further insight into some of the microstructural aspects of
metallic meteorites, Comerford is working with H. Posen of the Air
Force Cambridge Research Laboratories on a study of annealing
kinetics under high hydrostatic pressure.!? Preliminary results indicate
that pressure may enhance the rate of recrystallization.

David Tilles investigated the mechanisms by which gas is lost from
extraterrestrial dust. He also made a theoretical study of the con-
centration of rare gases and interplanetary dust as a function of grain
size for each of several possible source mechanisms.

Continuing their search for differences between spherules of ter-
restrial origin and cosmic dust particles, F. Wright and Franklin
determined the mass densities of particles greater than 30 microns in
diameter. They found a mean density of 2.75 for volcanic spherules,
whereas for those from Canyon Diablo and Esterville (both known to
be of cosmic origin) they found densities of 4.97 and 4.80, respectively.
Since the average density of the polar spherules was 4.57, there is
strong evidence that at least the majority of them are not of volcanic
origin.
210 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967—ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY

With Hodge, F. Wright derived tables of elemental abundances for
interplanetary dust particles from old ice deposits in Greenland and
near the South Pole. They found a remarkably good agreement with
general cosmic abundances, with the exception of a few elements.
Continuing their work with the electron-probe microanalyzer, reported
last year, Wright and Hodge sectioned, polished, and analyzed 23
spherules. This work showed that there is seldom any significant
difference in composition between the surfaces and interiors of the
volcanic spherules they are studying.

Ursula B. Marvin collected concentrates of heavy minerals in beach
sands of Miocene, Pleistocene, and Recent ages. From these she ex-
tracted magnetic iron oxide spherules of three distinct chemical types.
Type I, consisting of magnetite and wiistite, contains about 70% iron,
5% nickel, 0.3% cobalt, and 0.2% chromium. These samples were
found in a Pleistocene sand in Florida and a Recent one in Brazil.
Their composition and distribution indicate that they are probably of
extraterrestrial origin. The type-II spherules are mainly magnetite
and hematite also containing about 70% iron but with 0.5% man-
ganese. Found in Pleistocene and Recent beach deposits, polar ice
caps, and many other environments, these spherules are of uncertain
origin. Type-III spherules contain magnetite and glass and are rela-
tively poor in iron but rich in silicon and aluminum. They are volcanic
or industrial particles. Spherules of the first two types are being sepa-
rated in: quantity sufficient for isotopic analysis. The microprobe
analyses were made by Marco T. Einaudi of Harvard University.

With Clifford Frondel of Harvard University, Marvin has studied
diamonds they extracted from the Canyon Diablo meteorite.'* They
have found both irregular masses and morphological single crystals.
X-ray diffraction patterns show that both types of occurrence are
fine-grained polycrystalline aggregates of diamond with a hexagonal,
wurtzite-like polymorph that they have named lonsdaleite. They have
attributed the random internal aggregation and the presence of the
polymorphic form to shock. Further evidence of shock was revealed
by Marvin’s discovery that other minerals occur as polycrystalline
aggregates in the specimens of Canyon Diablo that contain diamond
and lonsdaleite but as single crystals in a large diamond-free specimen.
This indicates that some specimens of the meteorite have been more
severely shocked than others.

The laboratory system for approximating primordial nebular
conditions of pressure, temperature, and electrical discharge that
Salisbury was working on last year has produced chondrule-like objects
from granite dust. These tests are continuing, and objects from actual
meteorite dust are to be compared with real chondrules.
COMETS AND METEORS Ja\4|

Comets and Meteors

With Salah Hamid, the Director is searching for references to
periodic Comet Encke in ancient Chinese records. If proof of such
appearances can be found, it would provide extremely valuable infor-
mation on the orbital history of this comet and the nature of physical
decay of a large comet. The orbits of all the short-period comets (of
more than one recorded apparition and periods less than 30 years)
have been traced back for several centuries by Marsden using a digital
computer. One of the difficulties of such calculations is that non-
gravitational forces have long been suspected to act on comets. Now
it is possible to investigate the basis for this suspicion.

Hamid, Marsden, and the Director are studying the past motion of
the periodic Comet Halley to establish limits on the mass of a possible
comet belt near the plane of the planets, beyond Neptune. Preliminary
results place the upper limit at less than one earth mass out to 50
astronomical units from the sun.

To shed more light on the physical properties of Whipple’s icy
conglomerate model of comet nuclei, Zuckerman and Douglas Pitman
have been working on laboratory investigations of porous, icy systems
under vacuum conditions. They have studied the thermal conductivity
of vapor-grown dendritic snow crystals under various conditions of
temperature and pressure.

Both optical and radar observations of meteors continued during the
year.» Experimental observations of artificial meteoroids, carried out
jointly with NASA’s Langley Research Center, were completed. The
final test, on February 14, recorded the reentry of a one-gram iron
pellet travelling at 16 kilometers per second. The equipment at Wallops
Island is now being used to record optical data on natural meteors as
faint as 10th magnitude. This faint limit is made possible by an image
orthicon system on loan from the Naval Research Laboratory. It is
now possible to observe the optical effects of meteoroids in the same
size range that produce the majority of the meteor-radar observations.
Thus, a direct cross-calibration of the two systems is, for the first time,
possible.

Giuseppe Forti treated some 13,600 meteor orbits from radar
observations made in Havana, Illinois, and is nearing completion of a
search for major meteor streams and new meteor showers. Studying
winds in the upper atmosphere, Forti and Richard B. Southworth are
reducing data on observed meteor trails gathered by the Radio Meteor
System with new automatic digital recording equipment.

Plans were completed for precise calibration of the Havana Radio
Meteor Network to provide more precise measurements of meteor in-
212 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1977—-ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY

flux. Mario R. Schaffner developed a new system for processing
data gathered by the meteor radar equipment.'®

Nilsson derived an empirical equation describing the cumulative
influx of meteors with masses greater than 10~® gram.

The Prairie Network obtained good data on more than 300 ex-
tremely bright meteors.'® Although four objects were suspected to have
produced sizable meteorites, extended searches produced no recoveries.
Richard E. McCrosky has developed improved methods for estimating
meteor masses. With these methods the new data still suggest that the
majority of bright fireballs have a structure that more nearly resembles
material from comets than from asteroids.

Historical Astronomy

Gerald S. Hawkins, continuing his astro-archeological investiga-
tions, visited megalithic structures in England and Scotland, including
Callanish on the Isle of Lewis in the Outer Hebrides. With Shoshana K.
Rosenthal, he computed two catalogs giving star positions in prehistory.
The first catalog covers the period since 2500 B.C.; the second catalog
begins in 10,000 B.C. Both list the right ascension and declination of
stars with apparent visual magnitudes brighter than +2.99. |

Computational studies of the 13th-century Alphonsine Tables per-
formed by Gingerich show that they are essentially Ptolemaic in
construction and that they form the foundation for most of the im-
portant ephemerides until the time of Copernicus. This study is helping
to destroy the myth that the Ptolemaic system underwent severe
modification during the Middle Ages and finally collapsed under the
weight of increasing complexity. Gingerich’s computer investigations
of the Prutenic Tables of 1551 show that their underlying details slavishly
follow certain Copernican idiosyncrasies.

Central Bureaus

During this fiscal year the Central Bureau for Astronomical Telegrams
distributed 59 Circulars carrying information about the comets
discovered during this period, as well as supernovae, asteroids, and
unusual stars. A record number of comets, 17, have been predicted
to come to perihelion during 1967, but during the first half of the year
the number of comet recoveries was not unusually high. In April
Gingerich discussed the distribution of telegrams for Europe with
Paul Simon at the Meudon Observatory. The departure of NATO
from France has necessitated some changes in telegraph routing;
consequently, we have begun to relay all telegrams to Meudon directly
by Telex.
HISTORICAL ASTRONOMY—CENTRAL BUREAUS pi Nea}

The Central Bureau for Satellite Geodesy issued two more publica-
tions this year. Contacts on an international level were increased to a
total of 137 organizations or individual scientists in 38 countries out-
side the United States.

The Central Bureau was represented at international meetings on
satellite geodesy held in Potsdam and Venice. Individual visits were
made to optical tracking stations in the Federal Republic of Germany,
Sweden, Finland, Switzerland, France, the Netherlands, and the
United Kingdom. Discussions were held twice at the Headquarters of
the Western European Satellite Triangulation Commission in England.

Staff Changes

The scientific staff of the Observatory welcomed, during the year
physicists Bishun Khare and Ashok Sharma; astrophysicists Carl Nilsson
and Max Roemer; astronomers William Deutschman, Barabara
Kolaczek, Edward Lilley, and Cheng-yuan Shao; geologist George
Megrue; chemist Robert McCorkell; and electronics engineer Mario
Schaffner.

Consultants to the Observatory during the year were Drs. Leon
Cohen, Giuseppe Colombo, Dale Dickinson, Vichitra Gaur, Avram
Hayli, Gustav Kistner, Yoshihide Kozai, Robert Lumatainen, David
Parkin, Alan Title, and George Veis.

During the year, the Observatory continued its program of post-
doctoral fellowships in cooperation with the National Academy of
Sciences — National Research Council. Appointees during the year
were Drs. Charles Bartlett, Alan Title, Thornton Page, Trevor Weekes,
and Richard Wattson.

Resignations were received from Drs. William Irvine, Robert Briggs,
Willard Chappell, Charles Dugan, Leo Goldberg, Donald Lautman,
Jean Meffroy, Ellis Monash and Chi Wang.
Staff Papers Presented or Published
July 1966 through June 1967

ANDERSON, P. H. See also Lehr.

; Lenr, C. G.; Magstre, L. A.; and Snyper, G. L. Laser
experiments for determining satellite orbits. IEEE Journ. Quant.
Electron., vol. QE—2; pp. 215-219, 1966.

BaRkKER, J. I., and Grossi, M. D. Design of a satellite-to-satellite
communications experiment to explore HF/VHF guided propaga-
tion in the lower ionosphere. Radio Science, vol. 1, pp. 1229-1234,
1966.

Cameron, A. G. W., and Tsuruta, S. Cooling and detectability of
neutron stars. Can. Journ. Phys., vol. 44, pp. 1863-1894, 1966.

———,, and TsuruTa, S. Some effects of nuclear forces on neutron-
star models. Can. Journ. Phys., vol. 44, pp. 1895-1922, 1966.

CaR.LETON, N. P.; LEBLANG, F. J.; and OLDENBERG, O. Transition
probabilities of forbidden oxygen lines in a discharge tube. Journ.
Chem. Phys., vol. 45, pp. 2200-2203, 1966.

Couen, L., and Lecar, M. Relaxation of a two-component self-
gravitating gas. Jn Proc. of the Symp. on Computer Simulation of
Plasma and Many-Body Problems, College of William and Mary,
Williamsburg, Virginia, April 1967.

Cotomgo, G. Cassini’s second and third laws. Astron. Journ., vol. 71,
pp. 891-896, 1966.

; BELLomo, E.; and SHaprro,I.I. Theory of the axial rotations

of Mercury and Venus. Acts of the Symposium on the Mantles of

the Earth and Terrestrial Planets. Amsterdam: North-Holland

Publ. Co., 1966.

, and Suapiro, I. I. The rotation of the planet Mercury.

Astrophys. Journ., vol. 145, pp. 296-307, 1966.

; SHAPIRO, I. I.; and Lautman, D. A. The earth’s dust belt:

Fact or fiction? 1. Forces perturbing dust particle motion. Journ.

Geophys. Res., vol. 71, pp. 5695-5704, 1966.

; SHaprro, I. I.; and Laurman, D. A. The earth’s dust belt:

Fact or fiction? 2. Gravitational focusing and Jacobi capture.

Journ. Geophys. Res., vol. 71, pp. 5705-5717, 1966.

214

PAPERS PRESENTED OR PUBLISHED D5

; SHAPIRO, I. I.; and Lautman, D. A. The earth’s dust belt:
Fact or fiction? 3. Lunar ejecta. Journ. Geophys. Res., vol. 71,
ppo7 19-5731 61966:

; SHAPIRO, I. I.; and Laurman, D. A. The earth’s dust belt:
Fact or fiction? 4. Sunlight-pressure air-drag capture. Journ.
Geophys. Res., vol. 71, pp. 5733-5741, 1966.

ComerrorD, M.F. The morphology and crystallography of plessite in
some nickel-rich ataxites. Presented at the AGU Meeting, Wash-
ington, D.C., April 1967 [abstracted in Trans. Amer. Geophys.
Union, vol. 48, p. 158, 1967].

——; McCorkxE LL, R. H.; and TisHiLer, S. W. A new meteorite
find in South Africa. Presented at the 29th Annual Meeting of the
Meteoritical Society, Washington, D.C., November 1966 [ab-
stracted in Meteoritics, vol. 3, p. 106, 1967].

Cook, A. F., and FRANKLIN, F. A. Particle sizes in Saturn’s rings
[abstract]. Astron. Journ., vol. 71, p. 851, 1966.

Davis, R. J. The use of the Uvicon-Celescope television system for
ultraviolet astronomical photometry. Adv. Electron. Electron
Phys., vol. 22, pp. 875-884, 1966.

A comment on the stability of sodium salicylate spectro-
photometric standards. Presented at the [AU Colloqium on Space
Spectroscopy, Evanston, Illinois, May 1967.

Dayuorr, M. O.; Eck, R.; Lippincott, E. R.; and Sacan, C. Venus:
atmospheric evolution. Science, vol. 155, pp. 556-558, 1967.

DeEFEtIice, J. C. See also Fireman.

Dopp, R. T.; VAN Scumus, W. R.; and Marvin, U. Significance of
iron-rich silicates in the Mezo-Madaras chondrite. Amer. Min-
eral., vol. 5, pp. 1177-1191, 1966.

Fazio, G. G. See also Stecker.

, and Harner, E. M. The OSO 1 high-energy gamma-ray

experiment. Journ. Geophys. Res., vol. 72, pp. 2452-2455, 1967.

; Hetmxen, H. F.; Cavrak, S.; and Hearn, D. Search for

cosmic gamma rays with a vidicon spark chamber. Bull. Amer.

Phys. Soc., vol. 12, pp. 582-583, 1967. Presented at the 10th

International Conference on Cosmic Rays, Calgary, June 1967.

; HELMKEN, H. F.; Rieke, G. H.; and Weekes, T. C. An
experiment to search for discrete sources of cosmic gamma rays in
the 10"- 10'*-eV region. Presented at the 10th International
Conference on Cosmic Rays, Calgary, June 1967.

——, and ZuckERMAN, B. On the possibility of searching for quarks
by radio-astronomical techniques. Astrophys. Journ., vol. 147,
pp. 1196-1199, 1967.

216 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967—-ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY

Fireman, E. L.; DEFEtice, J. C.; and Lancway, C. C., Jr. Helium-3
released at low temperature from Greenland dust [abstract].
Trans. Amer. Geophys. Union, vol. 48, p. 158, 1967.

FRANKLIN, F. A. See also Cook.

; Hopcer, P. W.; Wricut, F. W.; and Laneway, C. C., x:
Determination of the densities of individual meteoritic¢, glacial, and
volcanic spherules. Journ. Geophys. Res., vol. 72, pp. 2543-2546,
1967.

FRONDEL, C., and Marvin, U. Lonsdaleite, a hexagonal ploymorph
of diamond. Nature, vol. 214, pp. 587-589, 1967.

GaposcHKIN, E. M. A dynamical solution for the tesseral harmonics
of the geopotential and station coordinates using Baker-Nunn data.
Pp. 685-693 in Space Research VII, ed. by R. L. Smith-Rose.
Amsterdam: North-Holland Publ. Co., 1967.

Determination of the earth’s gravity field by use of optical

observations. Presented at the CNES Symposium on Satellite

Geodesy, Paris, May 1967.

First-order worldwide geodetic triangulation network. Pre-

sented at the CNES Symposium on Satellite Geodesy, Paris,

May 1967.

The motion of the pole and the earth’s elasticity as studied
from the gravity field of the earth by means of artificial earth satel-
lites. Presented at the CIME Symposium on Modern Questions of
Celestial Mechanics, Bressanone, Italy, May 1967.

GincERICcH, O. J. See also Noyes, Strom.

Blanketing approximations for solar models. Journ. Quant.

Spectrosc. Radiat. Transfer, vol. 6, pp. 609-617, 1966.

The Central Bureau for Astronomical Telegrams. Pp. 32-38.

in ‘Trans. Intl. Astron. Union, ed. by J.-C. Pecker. New York:

Academic Press, 1966.

An essay review: Musings on antique astronomy. Amer. Sci.,
vol. 55, pp. 88-95, 1967.

Gotprars, T. D., and Kuare, B. N. Infrared spectra of solid and
matrix-isolated (CH;)3N, (CD3);N and (SiH,),N. Journ. Chem.
Phys., vol. 46, pp. 3379-3384, 1967.

, and Kuare, B. N. Infrared studies of dimethylsilylamine and
methyldisilylamine by the matrix-isolation technique. Journ.
Chem. Phys., vol. 46, pp. 3384-3388, 1967.

Grossi, M. D. See also Barker.

The meteor wind radar network at Havana, Illinois. Pre-

sented at the AFCRL Workshop on Methods of Obtaining Winds

and Densities from Radar Meteor Trail Returns, Waltham,

Massachusetts, August 1966.

PAPERS PRESENTED OR PUBLISHED 217

, and Lancwortuy, B. M. Geometric optics investigation of
HF and VHF guided propagation in the ionospheric whispering
gallery. Radio Sci., vol. 1, pp. 877-886, 1966.

HeELMKEN, H. F. See also Fazio.

Hopce, P. W. See also Franklin.

Radii, orbital properties, and relaxation times of dwarf ellip-

tical galaxies. Astrophys. Journ., vol. 144, pp. 869-874, 1966.

Galaxies and Cosmology. 179 pp. New York: McGraw-

Hill Book Co., 1966.

An atlas and catalog of H II regions in galaxies. 127 pp.

Seattle: Univ. of Washington, 1966.

H-alpha emission regions in irregular II galaxies. Astrophys.

Journ., vol. 146, pp. 593-594, 1966.

A possible super-supernova remnant in NGC 6946. Publ.

Astron. Soc. Pacific, vol. 79, pp. 29-32, 1967.

A survey of H II regions in galaxies. Astron. Journ., vol. 72,

pp129=133,1967.

Photometry of the giant members of the fornax cluster of

galaxies. Astron. Journ., vol. 72, pp. 303-304, 1967.

, and MercuantT, A. E. Photometry of SO galaxies II. The

peculiar galaxy NGC 128. Astrophys. Journ., vol. 144, pp.

875-885, 1966.

, and Sexton, J. A. 457 new clusters of the Large Magellanic

Cloud. Astron. Journ., vol. 71, pp. 363-368, 1966.

, and WALLERSTEIN, G. A suggested revision in the distance to

the Hyades and its implications. Publ. Astron. Soc. Pacific, vol. 78,

pp. 411-421, 1966.

; WricuHT, F. W.; and Laneway, C. C., Jr. Studies of particles
for extraterrestrial origin. 5. Compositions of the interiors of
spherules from arctic and antarctic ice deposits. Journ. Geophys.
Res., vol. 72, pp. 1404-1406, 1967.

Hummer, D. G., and Rysicxi, G. B. Computational methods for non-
LTE line-transfer problems. Pp. 53-127 in Methods in Compu-
tational Physics, vol. 7. New York: Academic Press, 1966.

Jaccui, L. G., and SLowey, J. The shape and location of the diurnal
bulge in the upper atmosphere. Pp. 1077—1090 in Space Research
VII, ed. by R. L. Smith-Rose. Amsterdam: North-Holland Publ.
Co., 1967.

; SLowEy, J.; and VERNIANI, F. Geomagnetic perturbations

and upper atmosphere heating. Journ. Geophys. Res., vol. 72,

pp. 1423-1434, 1967.

218 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967——-ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY

JELLEY, J. V.; CHarman, W. N.; Fruin, J. H.; Granam, F.; Smiru,
F. .G.; Porrer, R. A.; Porter,.N. Aj; WEEKES, SE; Gs Jand
McBreEN, B. Radio pulses from extensive air showers. Nuovo
Cimento, vol 46a, pp. 649-669, 1966.

KALKOFEN, W. See also Strom.

Deviation from LTE in stellar atmospheres. Journ. Quant.

Spectrosc. Radiat. Transfer, vol. 6, pp. 633-651, 1966.

, and Strom, S. E. The effects of deviations from LTE and
line blanketing on stellar atmospheres in the range BS to AS.
Journ. Quant. Spectrosc. Radiat. Transfer, vol. 6, pp. 653-660,
1966.

Kuare, B. N. See also Goldfarb.

Exobiology and atmospheric simulation. Presented to North-
eastern University Section of the American Institute of Physics,
May 1967.

KOHNLEIN, W. J. The variation of gravity on the earth’s surface as
deduced from satellite orbits [abstract]. Trans. Amer. Geophys.
Union, vol. 48, p. 54, 1967.

Corrections to station coordinates and to nonzonal harmonics
from Baker-Nunn observations. Pp. 694-701 in Space Research
VII, ed. by R. L. Smith-Rose. Amsterdam: North-Holland Publ.
Co., 1967.

Kroox, M., and Rysicxi, G. B. Radiative transfer in fluctuating
media. Presented at the American Mathematical Society Sym-
posium on Transport Theory, New York, April 1967.

Lecar, M. See also Cohen.

Stellar orbits in a time-varying gravitational field. Astron.

Journ., vol. 71, pp. 706-708, 1966.

, and Conen, L. Relaxation of a one-dimensional self-
gravitating gas. Jn Proc. of the Symp. on Computer Simulation of
Plasma and Many-Body Problems, College of William and Mary,
Williamsburg, Virginia, April 1967.

Lene, C. G. See also Anderson.

; AnpDERSON, P. H.; and Maegstre, L. A. Satellite range

measurements with a laser at an astrophysical observing station.

Pp. 723-734, in Space Research VII, ed. by R. L. Smith-Rose.

Amsterdam: North-Holland Publ. Co., 1967.

; Magstre, L. A.; and ANDERSON, P. H. Satellite ranging with

a laser and the correction for atmospheric refraction. Presented

at the International Association of Geodesy Meeting, Vienna,

March 1967.

PAPERS PRESENTED OR PUBLISHED 219

Litey, A. E. See also Palmer.

; PALMER, P.; PENFIELD, H.; and ZuCKERMAN, B. Radio
astronomical detection of helium. Nature, vol. 211, pp. 174-175,
1966.

Lippincott, E. R.; DAvHorr, M. O.; Eck, R.; and Sacan, C. Thermo-
dynamic equilibria in planetary atmospheres. Astrophys. Journ.,
vol. 147, pp. 753-764, 1967.

Lunpguist, C. A. See also Whipple.

. The physics and astronomy of space science. 116 pp. New

York: McGraw-Hill Book Co., 1966.

The interface between satellite altimetry and orbit determi-

nation. Presented at the Third Seminar on Guidance Theory and

Trajectory Analysis, NASA Electronics Research Center, Cam-

bridge, Massachusetts, June 1967.

Results from photographic and laser tracking systems. Pre-
sented at the 27th International Astronautical Congress, Madrid,
October 1966.

MaestTreE, L. A. See also Anderson, Lehr.

MarsDeEN, B. G. Evolution of the great sun-grazing comet group
[abstract]. Astron. Journ., vol. 71, p. 863, 1966.

Supplementary comet catalog. Mem. Brit. Astron. Assoc.,

vol. 40, no. 2, 1966.

One hundred periodic comets. Science, vol. 155, pp. 1207-
121351967.

Marvin, U.B. See also Dodd, Frondel.

Magnetic black spherules in ilmenite sands. Presented at
the 29th Annual Meeting of the Meteoritical Society, Washington,
D.C., November 1966.

-———. Shocked crystals of ureyite and sphalerite in the Canyon
Diablo iron meteorite. Presented at the 48th Annual Meeting
of the American Geophysical Union, Washington, D.C., April
1967.

, and Ernaupi, M. T. Black, magnetic spherules in Tertiary
and Quaternary beach sands, Atlantic Coast of United States.
Presented at the Northeastern Section Meeting of the Geological
Society of America, Boston, March 1967.

McCorkeEL1, R. H. See also Comerford.

MeEcru_E, G. H. Rare gas chronology of calcium-rich achondrites.
Journ. Geophys. Res., vol. 71, pp. 4021-4029, 1966.

MenzeEL, D. H. Annular eclipse of May 20 (on the Athens-Cape
Sunion Road). Sky and Tel., vol. 32, pp. 81-82, 1966.

, ed. Selected papers on the transfer of radiation. 269 pp.

New York: Dover Publ. Inc., 1966.

220 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967—-ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY

—_——. The astronomer’s stake in outer space. Pp. 45-53 in Man
and Space, ed. by L. Hirsch. New York: Pitman Publ. Corp.,
1966.

The surfaces of the moon, Mars, and Venus. Jn Moon and
Planets, ed. by A. Dollfus. Amsterdam: North-Holland Publ. Co.,
1966.

General conclusions. Firenze, vol. II, pp. 335-341 (HR I,
743), 1966.

———, and SHorz, B. W. Magnetic fields and small-scale structure
of the solar atmosphere. Atti del Convegno sui Campi Magnetici
Solari e la Specttroscopia ad Alta Risoluzione, ed. by G. Barbera,
Firenze, vol. II, pp. 308-318 (HR I, 742), 1966.

Mirter, H. E. Origin of the rare light nuclides. Presented at the
Symposium on High-Energy Processes in Astrophysics, Philadel-
phia, January 1967.

Nitsson, C. S. Some doubts about the earth’s dust cloud. Science,
vol. 153, pp. 1242-1246, 1966.

Orbital distribution of meteors of limiting magnitude +6
observed from the Southern Hemisphere. Presented at the
Conference on Zodiacal Light and the Interplanetary Medium,
Honolulu, January 1967.

Noyes, R. W. Observational studies of velocity fields in the solar
photosphere and chromosphere. Pp. 293-320 im Aerodynamic
Phenomena in Stellar Atmospheres, International Astronomical
Union Symp. 28. New York: Academic Press, 1967.

; Beckers, J. M.; Low, F. J.; and Davipson, A. W. Center-

to-limb variations of the solar continuum in the far infrared and

millimeter wavelength regions. Presented at the American Astro-
nomical Society Meeting, Ithaca, New York, July 1966 [abstracted

in Astron. Journ., vol. 71, p. 866, 1966].

; GincericH, O. J.; and Gorpperc, L. On the infrared
continuum of the sun and stars. Astrophys. Journ., vol. 145, pp.
344-347, 1966.

PacE, T. L. Starlight: What it tells about the stars. 337 pp. New
York: Macmillan Co., 1967.

, and Pacr, L. W., eds. Origin of the solar system. 336 pp.

New York: Macmillan Co., 1966.

, and SLeTTEBAK, A. The Earth Science Curriculum Project

(ESCP) and the teaching of astronomy in U.S. high schools

[abstract]. Astron. Journ., vol. 71, p. 394.

PAPERS PRESENTED OR PUBLISHED 221

PALMER, P.; ZUCKERMAN, B.; PENFIELD, H.; Littey, A. E.; and
MeEzceErR, P. G. Microwave observations of hydrogen, helium,
and a new recombination line. Presented at the American Astro-
nomical Society Meeting, Yerkes Observatory, Williams Bay,
Wisconsin, June 1967.

PaPALIOLIOs, C. Experimental test of a hidden-variable quantum
theory. Phys. Rev. Lett., vol. 18, pp. 622-625, 1967.

Pitman, D. T., and ZuckeRMAN, B. Effective thermal conductivity
of snow at —88°C, —27°C, and —5°C. Journ. Appl. Phys.,
May 1967.

Po.iack, J. B. See also Sagan.

; GREENBERG, E.; and Sacan, C. A statistical analysis of the

Martian wave of darkening and related phenomena. Planet.

Space Sci., vol. 15, p. 817, 1967.

, and Sacan, C. Secular changes and dark area regeneration
on Mars. Icarus, vol. 6, 434-439, 1967.

Rysicki, G. B. See also Hummer, Krook.

, and Hummer, D. G. Non-LTE line formation with spatial

variation in the doppler width. Journ. Quant. Spectrosc. Radiat.

Transfer, vol. 6, pp. 661-671, 1967.

, and Usner, P. D. The generalized Ricatti transformation as
a simple alternative to invariant imbedding. Astrophys. Journ.,
vol. 146, pp. 871-879, 1966.

Sacan, C. See also Dayhoff, Lippincott, Pollack.

Remarks on the lunar surface. Pp. 284-312 in The nature of

the lunar surface, ed. by W. N. Hess, D. H. Menzel, and J. A.

O’Keefe. Baltimore: Johns Hopkins University Press, 1966.

The Mariner IV mission to Mars. Leaflet No. 445, Astron.

Soc. Pacific, 28 pp., 1966.

The saucerian cult: an astronomer’s interpretation. Satur-

day Review, vol. 49, p. 50, August 6, 1966.

Weather on the planets [book review]. Sky and Tel., vol. 32,

p. 296, 1966.

Planetary atmospheres and surfaces. Industry, vol. 32, p. 60,

1966.

Current aspects of exobiology [book review]. Quart. Rev.
Biol., vol. 41, p. 450, 1966.

Man on another world [book review]. Quart. Rev. Biol., vol.
42, p. 101, 1967.

A new view of Mars. Tech. Rev., Massachusetts Institute of
Technology, June, pp. 27-32, 1967.

Beyond the observatory [book review]. Boston Evening
Globe, p. 50, June 1, 1967.

222 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967——-ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY

——; Dayuorr, M. O.; Lippincott, E. R.; and Ecx, R. Organic
molecules and the coloration of Jupiter. Nature, vol. 212, p. 273,
1967.

; Kitston, S. D.; and DRuMMonp, R. R. La terra e disabitata.

L’Europeo, Milan, vol. 22, pp. 65-68, 1966.

, and Potiack, J. B. An inorganic model of Martian phenom-

ena [abstract]. Astron. Journ., vol. 71, p. 178, 1966.

, and Poxtiack, J. B. On the nature of the canals of Mars.

Nature, vol. 212, pp. 117-121, 1966.

, and Potiack, J. B. Anisotropic nonconservative scattering

and the clouds of Venus. Journ. Geophys. Res., vol. 72, pp. 469-—

477, 1967.

; Pottack, J. B.; and GoxpstTein, R. M. Radar doppler
spectroscopy of Mars. I. Elevation differences between bright and
dark areas. Astron. Journ., vol. 72, pp. 20-34, 1967.

SALIsBuRY, W. W. Generation of light from free electrons. Science,
vol. 154, pp. 386-388, 1966.

A method for translunar radio communication. Nature,
vol. 211, pp. 950-951, 1966.

SHARMA, A. The true potential energy curves of X?Z and A?Z states
of the AlO molecule. Journ. Quant. Spectrosc. Radiat. Transfer,
vol. 7, pp. 283-286, 1967.

The Franck-Condon factors and the r-centroids of the A?2—

X? band system of AlO. Journ. Quant. Spectrosc. Radiat.

Transfer, vol. 7, pp. 289-293, 1967.

, and Papur, J. P. A spectroscopic study of the chemilumines-

cent reaction of germanium tetrahydride with atomic oxygen.

Proc. Phys. Soc., vol. 90, pp. 269-274, 1967.

; Papur, J. P.; and Warneck, P. The chemiluminescent re-
actions of atomic oxygen with COS and H,S. Presented at the
American Chemical Society Meeting, New York, September
1966.

SILK, J., and WricutT, J. P. The post-Schwarzschild effects of rota-
tion on gravitational collapse. Presented at the American Astro-
nomical Society Meeting, Yerkes Observatory, Williams Bay,
Wisconsin, June 1967.

SLOWEY, J. See also Jacchia.

Sotomon, L. H. On suspected flare activity in a B-type star. Irish
Astron. Journ., vol. 7, p. 226, 1966.

An analysis of combinations of satellite observation systems.

Presented at the 48th Annual Meeting of the American Geo-

physical Union, Washington, D.C., April 1967.

PAPERS PRESENTED OR PUBLISHED 223

SouTHworTH, R. B. The Havana, Illinois, system. Presented at the
AFCRL Workshop on Methods of Obtaining Winds and Densities
from Radar Meteor Trail Returns, Waltham, Massachusetts,
August 1966.

Phase function of the zodiacal cloud. Presented at the

Conference on Zodiacal Light and the Interplanetary Medium,

Honolulu, January 1967.

Remarks on the lunar surface. Pp. 284-312 in The nature

of the lunar surface, ed. by W. N. Hess, D. H. Menzel, and J. A.

O’Keefe. Baltimore: Johns Hopkins University Press, 1966.

Space density of meteors. Presented at the Conference on

Zodiacal Light and the Interplanetary Medium, Honolulu, Jan-

uary 1967.

Wind measurements from radar-meteor observations. Pre-
sented at the American Mineralogical Society Symposium on
Meteorological Investigations above 70 kilometers, Miami, June
1967.

STECKER, F. W.; TsuruTta, 8.; and Fazio, G. G. The effects of the
decay of nucleon isobars and hyperons on the cosmic gamma-ray
spectrum. Bull. Amer. Phys. Soc., vol. 12, p. 584, 1967.

Strom, 8. E. See also Kalkofen.

; Cowen, J. G.; and Strom, K. M. Analysis of F and G sub-
dwarfs. I. The location of subdwarfs in the theoretical H-R
diagram. Presented at the American Astronomical Society Meet-
ing, Ithaca, New York, July 1966 [abstracted in Astron. Journ., vol.
71, p. 873, 1966.]. Astrophys. Journ., vol. 147, pp. 1038-1049, 1967.

———; GINGERICH, O. J.; and Strom, K. M. Studies in non-gray
stellar atmospheres. III. The metal abundances of Sirius and
Vega. Astrophys. Journ., vol. 146, pp. 880-913, 1966.

, and KaLkoFEeNn, W. Deviations from LTE and their effect on
stellar spectra in the range B5 to FO [abstract]. Astron. Journ.,
vol. 71, pp. 873-874, 1966.

, and Kurucz, R. L. A statistical procedure for computing
line-blanketed model stellar atmospheres with applications to the
F5 IV star Procyon. Journ. Quant. Spectrosc. Radiat. Transfer,
vol. 6, pp. 591-607, 1966.

Tities, D. Implantation in interplanetary dust of rare-gas ions from
solar flares. Science, vol. 153, pp. 981-984, 1966.

———. Gas loss from interplanetary dust: Sputtering and surface
reactions of solar wind, and terrestrial oxidation [abstract]. Trans.
Amer. Geophys. Union, vol. 48, pp. 157-158, 1967.

Titte, A. M. Selected Spectroheliograms. Pasadena: California
Institute of Technology, 1966, 70 pp.

224 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967—-ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY

TrRuRAN, J.; ARNETT, D.; Tsuruta, S.; and CAMERON, A. G. W. Nu-
cleosynthesis in supernova explosions. Presented at the Symposium
sur Origine et la Distribution des Eléments, UNESCO and
UISG, Paris, May 1967.

TsuruTA, S. See also Cameron, Stecker, Truran.

Rotation of neutron stars. Nature, vol. 211, pp. 356-357,

1966.

Van Scumus, W. R., and Woop, J. A. A chemical-petrologic classi-
fication for the chondritic meteorites. Geochim. Cosmochim.
Acta, vol. 31, pp. 747-766, 1967.

Ve1s, G. Geodetic interpretation of the results. Pp. 776-777 in Space
Research VII, ed. by R. L. Smith-Rose. Amsterdam: North-
Holland Publ. Co., 1967.

Results from geometric methods. Pp. 778-782 in Space
Research VII, ed. by R. L. Smith-Rose. Amsterdam: North-
Holland Publ. Co., 1967.

WEEKES, T. C. See also Fazio, Jelley.

———, X-ray and gamma-ray astronomy. Science Progress, Ox-
ford, vol. 54, pp. 543-560, 1966.

Wuippte, F. L. Before type I carbonaceous chondrites? [abstract].
Meteoritics, vol. 3, p. 135, 1966.

———. The meteoritic environment of the moon. Proc. Roy. Soc.
A, vol. 296, pp. 304-315, 1967.

On maintaining the meteoritic complex. Presented at the
Conference on Zodiacal Light and the Interplanetary Medium,
Honolulu, January 1967.

———. On the satellite geodesy program at the Smithsonian Astro-
physical Observatory. Pp. 675-684 in Space Research VII, ed.
by R. L. Smith-Rose. Amsterdam: North-Holland Publ. Co., 1967.

———. The call of space. Presented at the Dedication of Lind-
heimer Astronomical Research Center, Northwestern University,
Evanston, Illinois, May 1967.

, and Lunpguist, C. A. Tracking by the Smithsonian Astro-
physical Observatory. Presented at the Royal Society Discussion
Meeting on Orbital Analysis, London, October 1966.

Wuitney, C. A. The behavior of RU Camelopardalis as an example
of oscillation hysteresis. Astrophys. Journ., vol. 147, pp. 1191-
eels oye

——_——. Physical basis for the interpretation of the continuous spectra
of pulsating variable stars. International Astronomical Union
Symposium, no. 28, pp. 198-206, 1967.

PAPERS PRESENTED OR PUBLISHED 225

Woop, J. A. See also Van Schmus.

Chondrites: their metallic minerals, thermal histories, and

parent planets. Icarus, vol. 6, pp. 1-49, 1967.
Wricut, F. W. See also Franklin, Hodge.
WricuT, J. P. See also Silk.

General relativity and long-period comets. Presented at the
American Astronomical Society Meeting, Yerkes Observatory,
Williams Bay, Wisconsin, June 1967.

ZUCKERMAN, B. See also Fazio, Lilley, Palmer, Pitman.

Special Reports

SPECIAL Reports of the Astrophysical Observatory distribute catalogs
of satellite observations, orbital data, and preliminary results of data
prior to journal publication. Numbers 200 and 216 through 243, issued
during the year, contain the following material:

200 (1966). Geodetic parameters for a 1966 Smithsonian Institution
standard earth, ed. by C. A. Lundquist and G. Veis, in 3. vols.

VoLuME 1:
The reference system, by G. Veis.
Data reduction, by R. Haefner and R. Martin.
Geometric methods, by L. Aardoom, A. Girnius, and G. Veis.
Orbit determination, by E. M. Gaposchkin.
The orbital method, by G. Veis.
Determination of zonal harmonic coefficients, by Y. Kozai.
Determination of tesseral harmonic coefficients and station coordinates, by
I. Izsak and E. M. Gaposchkin.
Combination of geometric and dynamic methods, by W. Ké6hnlein.
VOLUME 2:
Geodetic connections of the stations, by A. Girnius and J. Rolff.
Geometric results, by L. Aardoom, A. Girnius, and G. Veis.
Results from the orbital method, by G. Veis.
The zonal harmonic coefficients, by Y. Kozai.
Tesseral harmonic coefficients and station coordinates from the dynamic
method, by E. M. Gaposchkin.
Combination of geometric and dynamic results, by W. Kéhnlein.
VOLUME 3:
Geodetic interpretation, by G. Veis.
Comparison with surface gravity, by W. Strange.
The geometric structure of the earth’s gravitational field; and The accuracy
of the geopotential and its gradient field, by W. Kéhnlein.
Relation with DSIF stations, by G. Veis.

216 (July 1, 1966). On the gradient line of the earth’s zonal gravita-
tional potential, by W. Kéhnlein.

217 (July 15, 1966). A critical survey of upper-atmosphere density
measurements by means of ionization gauges, by M. Friedman.
226 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967—-ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY

218 (August 22, 1966). Geomagnetic perturbations and upper-
atmosphere heating, by L. Jacchia, J. Slowey, and F. Verniani.

219 (August 26, 1966). Meteor masses and luminosity, by F. Verniani.

220 (August 31, 1966). The production of cosmic gamma rays in
interstellar and intergalactic cosmic-ray collisions. I. The kinematics
of p-p interactions and secondary meson and hyperon decay and
the cosmic gamma-ray spectral source function, by F. Stecker.

221 (September 6, 1966). Radar doppler spectroscopy of Mars. I.
Elevation differences between bright and dark areas, by C. Sagan,
J. Pollack, and R. Goldstein.

222 (September 30, 1966). Satellite orbital data no. E-5: Satellites
1959 Alpha | (Vanguard 2), 1960 Iota 2 (Echo 1 rocket), 1961
Omicron | (Transit 4A), 1961 Alpha Delta 1 (Midas 4), 1962
Alpha Epsilon 1 (Telstar 1), and 1962 Beta Upsilon 1 (A15 Relay)
for Jan. 1—June 30, 1963; Satellite 1959 Eta 1 (Vanguard 3) for
Jan. 5—June 30, 1963; Satellite 1961 Delta 1 (Explorer 9) for Dec.
31, 1962—June 30, 1963; and Satellite 1961 Omicron 2 (Injun 3)
for Jan. 3—July 1, 1963.

223 (October 3, 1966). The short-period drag perturbations of the
orbits of artificial satellites, by L. Sehnal and S. Mills.

224 (October 10, 1966). Elevation differences on Mars, by C. Sagan
and J. Pollack.

225 (October 20, 1966). Satellite orbital data: Satellites 1958 Alpha 1
(Explorer 1), 1959 Alpha 1 (Vanguard 2), 1959 Eta 1 (Vanguard
3), 1960 Xi 1 (Explorer 8), 1962 Alpha Epsilon 1 (Telstar 1),
1962 Beta Mu | (Anna 1B), 1962 Beta Tau 2 (Injun 3), and
1962 Beta Upsilon 1 (Relay 1) for July 1, 1964~Jan. 1, 1965,
Satellite 1960 Iota 1 (Echo 1) for July 1—Dec. 31, 1964; and
Satellite 1963 13A (Telstar 2) for July 1, 1964-Feb. 24, 1965.

226 (October 28, 1966). Astro-archaeology, by G. Hawkins.

227 (November 18, 1966). Catalog of precisely reduced observa-
tions no. P-15: Satellites 1959 Alpha 1 (Vanguard 2), 1960 Iota
2 (Echo | Rocket Body), 1961 Delta 1 (Explorer 9), 1961 Omicron
1 (Transit 4A), 1961 Omicron 2 (Injun), 1961 Alpha Delta 1
(Midas 4), 1962 Alpha Epsilon 1 (Telstar 1) for Apr. 1—June 30,
1963; and Satellites 1959 Eta 1 (Vanguard 3) and 1962 Beta
Upsilon 1 (A15 Relay) for Apr. 2—June 30, 1963.

228 (November 22, 1966). Electron-probe analysis of interiors of
microscopic spheroids from eruptions of the Mt. Aso, Surtsey, and
Kilauea Iki volcanoes, by F. Wright, P. Hodge, and R. Allen.

229 (November 30, 1966). On Van Zeipel’s method in general plan-
etary theory, by J. Meffroy.
PAPERS PRESENTED OR PUBLISHED 227

230 (December 5, 1966). Probability of recording satellite images
optically, by K. Lambeck. ;
231 (December 6, 1966). Optimum station-satellite configurations for
simultaneous observations to satellites, by K. Lambeck.
232 (December 12, 1966). Publication of orbits derived from photo-
reduced Baker-Nunn observations, by E. Gaposchkin.
233 (December 14, 1966). Systematic corrections to reduce certain
satellite positions to the FK4 system, by K. Haramundanis.
234 (December 16, 1966). Note on expressions for second-order short-
period perturbations, by Y. Kozai.
235 (December 20, 1966). Lunisolar perturbations with short periods,
by Y. Kozai.
236 (December 30, 1966). Scientific horizons from satellite tracking,
ed. by C. Lundquist and H. Friedman.
Scientific horizons from tracking space objects, by C. A. Lundquist.
Estimation of scientific parameters, by H. D. Friedman.
Satellite tracking with a laser, by C. G. Lehr.
The effect of the atmosphere on laser range determination, by H. G. Horak.
Present and future research on the upper atmosphere at the Smithsonian
Astrophysical Observatory, by L. G. Jacchia.
Continental drift, by U. B. Marvin.
Some geophysical implications of the satellite geopotential, by C. -Y. Wang.
Determination of Love’s number from satellite observations, by Y. Kozai.
Relativistic investigations, by B. G. Marsden and J. P. Wright.
The motion of the spin axis and the rotation of the earth, by G. Veis.
Review of the rotation of the earth, by E. M. Gaposchkin.
Introduction to the theory of the earth’s motion about its center of mass,
by G. Colombo.
Interface with oceanography, by W. J. Koéhnlein.
Differential orbit improvement program for lunar orbiters, by G. Veis.
The force function on a lunar satellite due to the oblateness of the moon,
by S. E. Hamid.
Interface of satellite tracking and planetary orbiters, by J. Meffroy.

237 (March 20, 1967). Baker-Nunn photography of the Intelsat
2-F2 apogee-motor firing, by Staff of the Smithsonian Astro-
physical Observatory.

238 (March 30, 1967). On the distribution of the Gibeon Meteorites
of South-West Africa, by R. Citron.

239 (June 2, 1967). Studies in interplanetary particles, by F. Whipple,
R. Southworth, and C. Nilsson.

240 (June 2, 1967). Model atmospheres for cool stars, by O. Gingerich;
and Model atmospheres for late-type stars, by O. Gingerich, D.
Latham, J. Linsky, and S. Kumar.

241 (June 5, 1967). Design of a satellite experiment for atmospheric
density and near-free-molecule-flow aerodynamics, by L. Lam,
G. Mendes, and C. Lundquist.
228 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967—ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY

242 (June 6, 1967). Diurnal and seasonal-latitudinal variations in
the upper atmosphere, by L. Jacchia and J. Slowey.

243 (June 30, 1967). South-Africa Baker-Nunn photography of the
PAGEOS-A inflation and apogee burn of the AGENA-D, by
W. Kirchhoff and J. Latimer.

NOTES
For explanation, see footnote, page 193.:

1 Supported by grant NGR 09-015-047 from the National Aeronautics and
Space Administration (NASA).

2 Supported by NASA grant NsG 87.

3 Supported by NASA grant NSR 09-015-039.

4 Supported by grant NOOO 14-67-C0161 from the Office of Naval Research.

5 Supported by NASA grant NSR 09-015-022.

6 Supported by grant GP-4318 from the National Science Foundation (NSF).

7 Supported by NASA grant NGR 22-024-001.

8 Supported by NASA contract NSR 09-015-054.

® Supported by NASA grant NGR 09-015-023.

10 Supported by NASA contract NAS 5-1535.

11 Supported by NASA contract NAS 5-11007.

12 Supported by NSF grant GA-855.

13 Supported by contract DA 31-124-ARO-D-473 with the U.S. Army.

44 Supported by NASA grant NsG 282-63 to Dr. Frondel of Harvard.

15 Supported by NASA contract NSR 09-015-033.

16 Supported by NASA grant NsG 291-62.
Smithsonian Activities

History and Art
MUSEUN GF Hs

TOR
ANDTECH Veloce:

OGY

Infinity, in stainless steel, by American sculptor José de Rivera, rotates
once each six minutes. Located on the Museum’s Mall esplanade, its 16-foot
polished stone base reflects the nearby Washington Monument.
Museum of History and Technology

RosBErRT P. MuttuaurF, Director

P= SIGNIFICANCE OF MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS lies in the sounds they
are intended to make. This conviction, however furtively espoused
by some museums, is firmly held at the Smithsonian. Ever since 1879,
when G. Brown Goode, then Assistant Secretary in charge of the
United States National Museum, classified instruments in the collec-
tion as primarily sound-emitting devices, the ultimate direction has
been established. Obviously, instruments may be studied as pieces of
furniture or as examples in the history of technology or of mechanical
design, but their essence remains musical sound.

MUSIC AND MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS AT THE SMITHSONIAN

Like the proverbial sleeping giant, the Smithsonian’s enormous
collection of instruments lay dormant for many years. It grew through
isolated gifts and through large bequests, such as a group of instru-
ments from the Philadephia Centennial Exposition of 1876; a collec-
tion of wind instruments, banjos, and music boxes from the New York
music dealer J. Howard Foote, in 1882; and, most important, nearly
two hundred keyboard instruments given by Hugo Worch of Wash-
ington between 1914 and 1921. A small number of acquisitions is
recorded from the 1920s until 1960, when the Cooper Union donated
a collection of stringed and keyboard instruments. Now the division
of musical instruments has responsibility for instruments from western
cultures—these make up about one-third of the Smithsonian’s total
collection of over 4,000 musical instruments—and the office of anthro-
pology in the Museum of Natural History houses the remainder of the
collection.

231
232 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967

Although Hugo Worch was honorary custodian of musical instru-
ments from 1921 until his death in 1938, there was not any full-time
staff member who was musically trained and responsible for the
collection. The instruments were inadequately housed in the Museum
of Natural History, for only the most minimal attempts at main-
tenance or temperature and humidity control were possible. Almost
no instruments were playable and the Smithsonian was rarely credited
with being the great treasure house of musical objects that in fact it was.

The renascence began in 1958, when John Shortridge, musician,
historian, and instrument maker, joined the division of cultural
history. With the encouragement of curator of cultural history
C. Malcolm Watkins, he set about restoring the first instruments to
playing condition. In the intervening years, the new Museum of
History and Technology building, with its more favorable provisions
for storage and exhibition, was opened; the staff was enlarged under
the guidance of Cynthia Adams Hoover; and musical activity had
greatly increased when, in July 1966, the newly created division of |
musical instruments began its first year of independent operation.

The new division has now embarked on a comprehensive program
which aims to extend in breadth and depth the Museum’s contribution
to the art of music and the history of musical instruments. This program
is distinguished by its emphasis on the combination of disciplines,
each made more meaningful by its relation to the others: those of the
artist (performer), the craftsman (instrument maker), and the scholar
(historian). Together, these three provide a focus for interpretation
through research and publication, exhibits, restoration, seminars,
performances, and recordings. How, in practice, these reinforce each
other to form a whole which is uniquely greater than the sum of its
parts is described in the following paragraphs.

Performances sponsored by the division of musical instruments have
an objective beyond that of the usual concert series, for the intent
is not only to delight but also to enlighten the hearers by delineating
artistic and historical contributions drawn from research in performance
conventions or by the use of period instruments restored in the museum.

On occasion, performances are made possible by the results of resto-
ration work, as when a fine instrument, unheard for many years, 1s
finally ready for use. For instance, a rare 18th-century French harpsi-
chord is currently being restored by conservator Scott Odell. An
inaugural concert has been arranged which will bring an eminent
player to the Smithsonian in a performance of French music con-
temporary with the instrument. An early American chamber organ,
shortly due from its restorer, inspired plans for a concert of music
MUSEUM OF HISTORY AND TECHNOLOGY—INTRODUCTION 233

for organ and strings, together with a seminar in early American
organ building.

Research can also lead to performances as well as to publication.
A continually evolving study of performance conventions occupies
considerable time on the part of the division staff. A concert of Christmas
music of the Renaissance and early baroque resulted from investigation
of music and performance conventions described by Michael Praetorius
in his Syntagma Musicum of 1619. The creation of performance editions
as well as the assembling of proper instruments and rehearsing of
musicians is often required for a given concert. Ideally, a complete
Smithsonian musical event entails the performance itself coupled with
a demonstration lecture, a recording, as well as a publication and a
related exhibition of musical objects appropriate to the period and
place of the repertoire presented.

The exhibit, ““Music Making—American Style,” on view during
1966-1967, reflects concern for the objects themselves, their history and
context, as well as for the sounds they make. In this instance, a tape of
appropriate music was provided for each part of the exhibition. Also,
a series of five live concerts was generated by its contents. These in-
cluded programs of folk music, 19th-century band music using over-
the-shoulder saxhorns from the exhibit itself, a New Orleans marching
jazz band, and a program of chamber music known in America before
1800. For this latter concert, research led to archives of 18th-century
Moravia, to music at Mount Vernon, to records of colonial Boston, and
to documents from Spanish New Mexico. This exhibition also inspired
preparation of a publication dealing with the history of American
music and American instrument making.

The Smithsonian now possesses a superbly equipped conservation
laboratory. The restoration program has so progressed that, in ad-
dition to a clavichord and an 18th-century Viennese piano, seven
harpsichords are maintained in playing condition. This, in turn,
accounts for a generous proportion of harpischord music in the per-
formance program. For the instrument maker or performer it also
provides an opportunity to compare antique prototypes.

Restored instruments not on public display are kept available for
study by qualified visitors in the reference collection. Construction will
shortly begin in the reference storage area which will make readily
accessible many important instruments formerly consigned to over-
crowded storage units and shelves. For the first time in any large
collection, all the objects of special import will be visible behind
glass doors and identified for the visitor by brief labels.

Publications by the staff range from those dealing with the collection
234 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967

Harold Dejan and his Olympia Band in an evening
of New Orleans jazz on the Mall, August 24, 1966.

© Coe) RDCE ap

js ACOA THEO nan.

Early 20th-century music making, American style: Advertising wagon carries
a 6-piece jazz band. Right: Appalachian country musicians, made of wire.
MUSEUM OF HISTORY AND TECHNOLOGY—INTRODUCTION 235

oe a ,. rs

Jacob and Daniel Melton, dulcimer makers of Carroll County, Virginia,
tuning up for a recording session during a field trip made by Scott Odell of
the division of musical instruments.

Seminar on 18th-century performance conventions held by Professor George
Hunter of the University of Illinois, July 1966.
236 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967

Janos Scholz of New York trying
the viola da gamba made by
Barak Norman, London, 1718, in
the collection of the division of
musical instruments.

itself to studies of early instruments and their use in performance to
editions of early music. Now in press is the first complete listing of
pianos, harpsichords, clavichords, and organs in the collection, pre-
pared by Cynthia Hoover, Scott Odell, Helen Hollis, and others. A
similar listing for wind instruments is being prepared by Robert
Sheldon. Also in press is a facsimile, edited by John Fesperman, of
18th-century keyboard music of William Boyce.

A series of documentary recordings, planned by James Weaver, will
begin in the coming year. These performances on important Smith-
sonian instruments will be accompained by extensive photographic
and textual information about both the instruments and the music
presented.

A 1966 seminar in performance conventions in early 18th-century
music not only brought a group of experienced musicians to study
at the Smithsonian and use its collection, but also expedited the for-
mation of the Smithsonian Collegium Musicum. This continuing
educational project involves the training of a small nucleus of musicians
in early music and in the use of instruments from the collection.

During the next few years, much of the new division’s program will,
of necessity, continue to be experimental. Thus, both arduous and
exciting times can be expected. The work must be validated by the
end it seeks—to allow the music of the past to speak more eloquently to
modern ears.

Joun T. FESPERMAN
Division of Musical Instruments
Research and Publication

SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY

In May, Howard I. Chapelle, curator of marine transportation, was
advanced to the newly created post of senior historian, in which he will
continue his researches into the history of sailing vessels, with no ad-
ministrative or curatorial responsibilities. John H. White, curator of
land transportation, has been named curator in charge of the division
of transportation.

A noteworthy feature of the work of the department is the planned
involvement with scholars and institutions outside of the Smithsonian,
which is taking place under a number of programs and arrangements.

Under the direction of Robert Vogel, the physical plant and ma-
chinery of Dudley Shuttles, Inc., of Wilkinsonville, Massachusetts, was
recorded in detail in July 1966, with the assistance of the Historic
American Buildings Survey of the National Park Service, in whose
archives the final records will be deposited. The Dudley works was
chosen because much of the machinery used in making textile power-
loom shuttles was built on the premises, and thus Dudley is an interest-
ing example of a firm which filled its own needs for integrated produc-
tion machinery not commercially available.

A much larger survey was begun in June 1967; Vogel went to New
England to conduct a survey of a group of early textile mill buildings
before they disappear under pressures from urban renewal, highway
construction, and other changing patterns of land and building use.
Modern techniques, including aerial photography, are being used in
this survey. The textile industry was selected as a starting point because
it was the first American industry organized in a widespread fashion on
the factory system. The program hopefully will be extended to other
significant groups of early industrial buildings.

In order to bring together persons interested in the subject to discuss
means of coordinating efforts, Vogel in April arranged a one-day
seminar in conjunction with a visit by Kenneth Hudson, a leading
British practitioner of industrial archeology.

The graduate teaching program in cooperation with the Department
of the History of Science at the University of Pennsylvania continued.

237
238 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967—-MUSEUM OF HISTORY AND TECHNOLOGY

Uta Merzbach was in residence at Philadelphia during the fall semester,
giving a seminar on 19th-century mathematics; and Monte Calvert
in the spring semester gave one on American technology. The program
is scheduled to continue next year, with Bernard Finn and Edwin
Battison being the visiting lecturers at Pennsylvania.

Several members of the staff participated in the teaching program of
the department of American studies, and Calvert gave a directed
reading course to doctoral students on the social relations of science and
technology in America. Melvin Jackson cooperated with that depart-
ment in preparing the exhibit for the Vinland Map Conference in
November and presented a paper on medieval conventions of form and
the Vinland map.

Three visiting scholars worked in or with the department this year.
Professor Carl Condit of Northwestern University made use of the
archival collections in civil engineering to prepare a general survey of
the subject. Professor Cecil Smith of the Drexel Institute of Technology
conducted a comparative study of French and American engineering
practices in the 19th century. Canadian scholar W. Knowles Middleton
prepared a comprehensive illustrated catalog of the meteorological
instruments in the Museum’s collections; this is to be published by the
Smithsonian Institution Press. Sami Hamarneh of the division of
medical sciences compiled a catalog of Arabic manuscripts in medicine
and pharmacy at the British Museum, which the British Museum will
publish.

In autumn an iron Bollman-truss bridge near Washington was offi-
cially declared a national historic engineering landmark by the American
Society of Civil Engineers, and title to the structure was transferred
to Howard County, Maryland, for permanent preservation. Vogel and
the Smithsonian have been working for several years to ensure the
preservation of this historic example of early American civil engineering.

Two scholarly publications continued to be directed by members and
a former member of the department. Robert Multhauf is editor and
Bernard Finn is managing editor of Isis, the journal of the History of
Science Society. Walter Cannon is editor of the Smithsonian Journal of
istory.

Among publications from the department, most scholarly comment
has been caused by Edwin Battison’s article on Eli Whitney, which
showed that there was no basis for attribution of the well-known
“Whitney” milling machine to Eli Whitney, and made it appear un-
likely that Whitney ever used a system of interchangeable parts in his
arms manufacture. Battison is preparing a further study of the so-called
“Whitney” machine to establish its original features and to assess its
importance as the earliest milling machine known to have survived.
RESEARCH AND PUBLICATION—SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY 239

POWER
MACHINERY

Steam power for early electric generating plants. In the background, a Porter-
Allen high-speed steam engine of 1881 drives an 1885 Edison bipolar direct-
current generator, and, in the foreground, a Westinghouse compound engine of
1896 drives an alternating-current generator, the exciter for which is the small
belt-driven machine in the center. Below: Reidler pumping engine driven by
Pelton turbine (left). All are new exhibits in the hall of power machinery.

240 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967—MUSEUM OF HISTORY AND TECHNOLOGY

Bernard Finn has paid special attention to the history of television in
an attempt to re-create some of the early systems. Use was made of the
extensive files of the Federal Communications Commission in analyzing
the development of color television and the reasons for acceptance of
the current system. Finn also completed work on a study of thermody-
namics and thermoelectricity. His article on Alexander Graham Bell’s
experiments with the variable-resistance transmitter will appear in the
fourth issue of the Smithsonian Journal of History; and he has given lectures
at the College of William and Mary and Catholic University, and to
the Government Patent Lawyers Association. Eliot Sivowitch began a
study of wired broadcasting in Europe and the United States in the
late 19th century.

Hamarneh’s paper on modern historiography and medieval Arabic
pharmaceutical literature, read before the American Institute of the
History of Pharmacy, is to be published in their Proceedings. In January
1967 he went on a‘sabbatical year’s leave to study Arabic manuscripts
in Cairo and other centers.

Monte Calvert continued his documentation of tools, especially those
involved in the current changes in the hall of tools. Under his super-
vision a study of bearing technology is being undertaken by George
Korper.

Walter Cannon’s study of science in 19th-century England, Sczence
and Social History in Victorian England, was accepted for publication by
Routledge & Kegan Paul. The chapters range from analysis of the work
of individual men to a reinterpretation of the role of science as a whole
in Victorian culture, which was delivered in March as the annual Sigma
Xi lecture at the University of Pennsylvania. Cannon also began a
comparison of the scientific accuracy of David Rittenhouse with that of
his British contemporaries.

Uta C. Merzbach completed the research for an edition of the
mathematical publications of Leibniz.

Deborah Warner completed a study of the famous American tele-
scope makers, Alvan Clark and sons, coupled with a lengthy catalog of
all known objective lenses made by the Clarks.

The forthcoming publication of Howard Chapelle’s Search for Speed
Under Sail, 1700-1855, will represent the culmination of some 40 years of
research in this field; it contains 134 drawings, all produced by the
author. Chapelle has also completed studies of the frigate Constellation
and of the sloop De Braak. In January he addressed the Navy League of
Portsmouth, New Hampshire, on the subject of building a replica of the
Continental frigate Raleigh.

John H. White’s study, American Locomotives, 1830-1880, was accepted
for publication by the Johns Hopkins Press. White completed a paper
RESEARCH AND PUBLICATION—ARTS AND MANUFACTURES 241

on Baldwin’s first locomotive and one on the business history of the
Cuyahoga Steam Furnace Company. He gave a paper on rationaliza-
tion and standardization of locomotive design at the meeting of the
Society for the History of Technology in December.

Melvin Jackson’s study of the operations of French privateers out of
Charleston, South Carolina, during 1793-1796 is to be published by
the Smithsonian Institution Press. Jackson is doing research on the
pioneer Griffin Greene steamboat of 1796 and on the privateer Prince
of Neufchatel in the War of 1812. At the invitation of the Royal Nether-
lands Navy League of Curacao, Netherlands Antilles, Jackson gave
three lectures on Dutch-American maritime relations in the Caribbean
during the 18th century, at the celebration of the 60th anniversary of
the League’s founding.

Don Berkebile completed a paper on the William T. Harris motor
wagon of 1892, one of the early gasoline-propelled vehicles built in the
United States, and he continued work on his carriage dictionary.

William Geoghegan completed his chronology of events of the Civil
War gunboats on the western rivers.

ARTS AND MANUFACTURES

With a grant from Resources for the Future, Inc., and the coopera-
tion of the U.S. Departments of Agriculture and Interior, the division
of agriculture and forest products began a study of the possibilities of
establishing a number of farms on which the conditions and crops
representative of stages in American agricultural history will be repro-
duced. The research report will be completed in November 1967.
Research continues for a history of American agriculture 1607-1967.

The curators of the division of ceramics and glass began the compila-
tion of a catalog of the Hans Syz collection of 18th-century European
porcelain. Paul Gardner’s technical biography of Frederick Carder
should be ready for publication in fall 1967. Work on the classification
of ceramics from the archeological excavations at Fort Michilimackinac,
Michigan, continued. In January the curators conducted a seminar
on identification of unmarked 18th-century English porcelain, chaired
by Robert J. Charleston, Keeper of the Department of Ceramics,
Victoria and Albert Museum, London. It was attended by fifteen
curators of ceramics from such museums as The Metropolitan Museum
of Art, Henry Francis duPont Winterthur Museum, Colonial Williams-
burg, the Art Institute of Chicago, and the William Nelson Rockhill
Gallery.

The Twelfth Annual Wedgwood International Seminar convened
at the Smithsonian Institution May 3 through May 6, 1967, under the
242 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967—-MUSEUM OF HISTORY AND TECHNOLOGY

Installation of the mural in the hall of petroleum, opened in June 1967. This
57-foot picture in polymer tempera, a portion of which is shown above, por-
trays the techniques of finding, producing, and distributing petroleum. Below:
Early rotary drilling machine used at Spindletop oilfield in 1901. In the back-
ground are examples of blowout preventers and, at right, of drilling bits.

me As

RESEARCH AND PUBLICATION—ARTS AND MANUFACTURES 243

joint chairmanship of the curators. The 325 registrants from the United
States, Canada, and Europe enjoyed a program which included 13
illustrated lectures, evening study sessions, and tours of Hillwood and
the White House. A special exhibition of Wedgwood was mounted in
connection with this seminar.

Jacob Kainen, curator of graphic arts since 1946, retired in September
1966 to devote more time to his painting and research. He continued
to serve the Smithsonian on the staff of the National Collection of
Fine Arts as curator of prints and drawings.

A catalogue raisonné of the etchings, lithographs, and posters of
John Sloan and a study of his etching methods was completed by
associate curator Peter Morse, who resigned, effective July 1, 1967, to
join the staff of the Honolulu Academy of Fine Arts.

Elizabeth Harris, who held a Smithsonian fellowship until October
1966 and has continued as a consultant, completed a study of Sir
William Congreve’s compound-plate printing and is preparing a cata-
log of the Museum’s collection of photomechanical printing.

Eugene Ostroff was awarded a one-year research grant to continue
his work, started last year, related to the preservation and restoration
of photographs. A paper on preservation of photographs, resulting
from this work, will appear in The Photographic Journal. He visited
Lacock Abbey, Chippenham, Wiltshire, England, the ancestral home of
William Henry Fox Talbot, inventor of the photographic negative
system used today for producing unlimited paper prints. An attempt
to discover the remains of the inventor’s laboratory shed, carried out in
cooperation with the National Trust (Britain), failed to reveal meaning-
ful artifacts, but six Talbot laboratory jars found in the attic were
generously lent for display at the Smithsonian by Mrs. Katherine
Burnett Brown, great-granddaughter of Fox Talbot.

Opportunity was given to inspect Talbot’s personal photographic
collection, owned by Mrs. Burnett Brown; a catalog of the collection is
being prepared by Ostroff, and the appropriate preservation measures
applied to the prints.

Research in the division of manufactures and heavy industries was
principally concerned with preparations for the hall of nuclear energy
and coal. The financial records of a major coal producer, given to
the Museum, have greatly assisted curator John N. Hoffman in his
continuing study of the early development of the Pennsylvania an-
thracite region. Work on the development of the American economy
through 1865 has continued.

The staff of the division of textiles continued its research in textile
subjects for the script for the new permanent hall and for scheduled
special exhibits. A paper, ‘‘Natural Dyes in the United States,’’ was
244 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967—-MUSEUM OF HISTORY AND TECHNOLOGY

wz

SR OELRR SPORE Ra OF

1
Examples of Victorian needlework from the collections in the division of
textiles.
RESEARCH AND PUBLICATION—ARTS AND MANUFACTURES 245

OT

rons

4
¥
:
:
=
®

After a showing at the Museum, an exhibit of Victorian Needlework was
circulated nationally by the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition
Service (see pp. 274 and 385).
246 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967—-MUSEUM OF HISTORY AND TECHNOLOGY

submitted by Rita J. Adrosko for publication by the Smithsonian
Institution Press. She continued her research on Jacquard-woven silk
pictures in America and on 19th-century shawls, and Doris Bowman
continued research on early machine-made nets.

CIVIL HISTORY

Many activities of the department this year reflect an increased
interest in the Museum’s relationships with foreign museums and
collections, rapport with foreign colleagues, and strengthening ties
with cultures parallel to our own. Richard H. Howland was elected
secretary-treasurer of the United States National Committee of
ICOMOS, the new UNESCO-sponsored international organization
officially known as the Conseil International des Monuments et des
Sites. At the invitation of UNESCO, he spent five weeks in Ethiopia,
where he advised the Crown Prince and other government officials
on the organization of a new Ethiopian Antiquities Administration.

Curator C. Malcolm Watkins continued his work on the exciting
Thompson letters, written from California before 1870, and was
consulted on cultural and historical displays at the new municipal)
museum in Oakland, California. In April 1967 he began a year’s)
sabbatical leave to investigate early American pottery. Research
collaborator Joan Pearson Watkins contributed substantially both to
studies of earthenware and of Western Americana.

Rodris Roth correlated local deeds, early 19th-century house
inventories, and genealogical records for a report ascertaining the
history of, and furnishings for, an 1808 parlor from Martha’s Vineyard
in Massachusetts, soon to be displayed in the hall of everyday life.
Richard Ahlborn completed research on two unique buildings used
as oratories by a flagellant brotherhood in the Spanish-American
villages of New Mexico. His illustrated monograph on the “‘Penitente
Moradas of Abiquiu” is to be published by the Smithsonian Institution
Press.

Mrs. Anne W. Murray completed research on her paper, “Sunshades,
Parasols and Umbrellas,’ and continued investigation of certain
aspects of the history of 18th- and early 19th-century American
costume. For The Institute of Pennsylvania Life and Culture, June 21
through June 24, she lectured and served as chairman of a seminar on
historic American costume.

Claudia B. Kidwell completed her paper, ‘Women’s Bathing Dress
and Customs in the United States,’ which is being published by the
Smithsonian Institution Press, and continued research on dress of the
1920s.

RESEARCH AND PUBLICATION—CIVIL HISTORY 247

Associate curator Cynthia A. Hoover continued research for an
illustrated handbook, ‘‘Music Making—American Style,”? which will
supplement the few published histories of American music through
illustrations of musical objects, important musical documents and
paintings, and contemporary accounts of American musical activities.
She also completed an article, ““Music at the Smithsonian,” to appear
in the fifth issue of the Smithsonian Journal of History.

A total listing of the Museum’s extensive keyboard collection was
prepared by the staff of the division of musical instruments and edited
by Cynthia Hoover with assistance from Scott Odell. Its detailed
descriptions of the instruments were compiled by associate curator
John Fesperman, museum specialist Helen Hollis, and by summer
interns Theodore Grame (1962), Robert Falck (1963-1964), and
Dorman Smith (1965-1966). It is intended as the first of a compre-
hensive series of checklists and catalogs which will document the music
collections.

Associate curator in charge John Fesperman prepared a facsimile
edition with introductory notes of Ten Voluntartes for the Organ or
Harpsichord by William Boyce, originally published in London, circa
1785, and never reprinted in full since that date. He continued in-
vestigations of early organ building in America by way of providing
information about organs in the collection for the checklist of keyboard
instruments. With Scott Odell, he traveled to Mexico to photograph
and document 17th-century organ building in and around Mexico City.
He also participated in performances of music of Praetorius, Byrd, and
Monteverdi with other members of the Collegium. Research in per-
formance conventions led to his preparation for program notes for
concerts of “‘Music in America Before 1800” and for ‘‘Christmas
Music of the Renaissance and Early Baroque.”

Associate curator Keith E. Melder pursued his study of women’s
status in the United States, and began investigating reforms in Ameri-
can education during the first half of the 19th century. He participated
in two orientation seminars in American material culture in the joint
Smithsonian-George Washington University American Studies pro-
gram. Margaret B. Klapthor, associate curator, continued research
on various phases of White House history, concentrating on detailed
studies of china from all the administrations.

Assistant curator Herbert R. Collins’ research on American political
campaign bandannas and kerchiefs involved design patent records
and a study of major collections in all parts of the country. Kenneth
Shipps returned to the division of political history for his second
summer as a research assistant studying Presidential campaign music
248 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967—-MUSEUM OF HISTORY AND TECHNOLOGY

in the United States and research assistant Isabel Davies accumulated
valuable information on White House china and on World War I
posters.

Curator Peter C. Welsh continued research on the implements of the
hand crafts. He continued his work on the Harry T. Peters lithography
collection and the Eleanor and Mabel Van Alstyne folk art collection.
His manuscript ‘““Track and Road,” a history of the American trotting
horse based upon the visual record preserved in the Peters lithography
collection, was completed and is now in press. He lectured in the Coop-
erstown Graduate Program, Cooperstown, New York; and in May
discussed tools, construction, and the Ipswich House as part of Colum-
bia University’s graduate seminar in restoration and preservation.

Assistant curator Anne Castrodale Golovin presented a paper
“Daniel Trotter, Philadelphia Cabinetmaker,”’ at the Annual Winter-
thur Seminar on Connoisseurship at the Henry Francis duPont Winter-
thur Museum. Her manuscript, ‘‘William Wood Thackera, Volunteer
in the War of 1812,” is now in press for the Pennsylvania Magazine of
History and Biography.

Museum technician Anne Marie Serio investigated the political
caricatures in the Peters lithography collection and conducted a study
of the 1848 national convention of the Free Soil Party.

A numismatic seminar consisting of eleven sessions was held by the
division of numismatics from March 9 through May 18, 1967. Dr. and
Mrs. Clain-Stefanelli developed the program as a survey of the science
of numismatics and its aims, and it included a discussion of the most
important numismatic references. Coins as documents of history and
art in coinage formed the subject of two sessions. Two other sessions!
giving a survey of coining metals and of coining techniques provided
the necessary basis for a presentation of special methods germane to
numismatic research, such as the comparative study of dies in order to’
establish chronological sequences of coins. The application of scientific -
methods of investigation—particularly physics—in numismatics was
the subject of another session. The concepts guiding the activity of
numismatic museums throughout the world and a history of the Na-
tional Numismatic Collections completed the series of seminars. In the
review session, the curator emphasized the necessity for a continuous
reappraisal of the scope of numismatics.

Both the curator and associate curator lectured extensively on various
numismatic subjects in Washington and other cities.

Reidar Norby was appointed assistant curator of philately and postal
history in August 1966. Editor of The Posthorn and the Scandinavian
Scribe, and author of numerous publications on European stamps and

RESEARCH AND PUBLICATION—CIVIL HISTORY 249

The two halls opened in the growth of the United States series cover the period
1640-1851. Construction methods used in 1690 and 1750 are illustrated by
this house from Ipswich, Massachusetts. Below: Two-man pit saw used to rip
out planks.

Wheels and gears of a 1774 grist mill
from Chester County, Pennsylvania,
reconstructed and working. Nearby
(left) ducks are penned in by a
typical woven sapling fence. Below:
Conestoga freight wagon of the type
used in the Pennsylvania area, 1790-
1850.

RESEARCH AND PUBLICATION——-AMERICAN STUDIES 251

postal history, he began a study of postal communications between
the United States and Scandinavia.

Associate curator Carl H. Scheele, whose Postal Service—A_ Brief
History is in press, continued research on mail-handling devices and
airmail service. He was the principal speaker at the Combined Philatelic
Exhibitions of Chicago and was appointed to the Council of the
American Philatelic Congress.

A system to retrieve information from United States covers is being
developed by Scheele and museum specialist Francis E. Welch.

AMERICAN STUDIES

The American studies program was carried on in cooperation with
universities in the local area and tentative arrangements were made for
cooperation with universities outside the local area. An orientation
seminar in the material culture of the United States, given for the
second consecutive year in the spring semester, was organized around
the theme of technological innovation and was taught by staff members
from each of the Museum’s departments. Eleven graduate students
from the George Washington University and the University of Mary-
land participated. In addition six graduate students from the George
Washington University took individual reading courses with members
of the Museum staff.

In November 1966 the chairman organized a conference on the
recently discovered Vinland map in conjunction with a special
exhibition of the map and related objects. No final conclusions about
the map, either in terms of its authenticity or meaning, were reached,
but much light was shed on the subject. The proceedings of the
conference are being edited for publication.

In July Dr. Wilcomb E. Washburn addressed the 1966 meeting of the
Anglo-American Conference of Historians, London, England, speaking
in behalf of the overseas historians in response to the welcome of
C. V. Wedgwood, representing the English historians. He participated
in a conference on the Discovery of America held at the Centre
d’Etudes Supérieures de la Renaissance de Tours, France, giving
papers on the Vinland map and on the American Indian; in the
organization meeting of the Society for Historical Archaeology,
Southern Methodist University, Dallas, Texas; and in a planning
conference on American Indian history at the University of California
at Los Angeles, where he spoke briefly on opportunities in the study
of American Indian history.

He also spoke at the Conference on Virginia History on problem
areas in Virginia history; at the Conference on Early American
252 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967—-MUSEUM OF HISTORY AND TECHNOLOGY

THE VINLAND MAP

The Vinland map was on exhibit in the Museum of History and Technology
from November 1966 through June 1967.

At the conference on the Vinland map, held November 15-16, 1966, the map
is examined by Armando Cortesao of Coimbra University, Portugal; Alexander
Orr Vietor of the Yale University Library; Peter Sawyer of England; Gwyn
Jones of University College, Cardiff, Wales; and Thomas E. Marston of the
Yale University Library.

RESEARCH AND PUBLICATION——AMERICAN STUDIES 253

Einar Haugen of Harvard University, Raleigh Skelton of the British Museum,
England, Alexander Orr Vietor of the Yale University Library, and Ib Ronne
Kejlbo of the Royal Library, Copenhagen, Denmark, examine a portion of
the Vinland map exhibit.

Graduate students in the orientation seminar in the material culture of the
United States observe the installation of a block road (generally referred to,
incorrectly, as Belgian block) in an exhibit in the Museum of History and
Technology. Museum specialist Donald H. Berkebile (extreme left) division
of transportation, and (next to him) Wilcomb E. Washburn, chairman,
department of American studies, conduct the discussion.

254 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967—-MUSEUM OF HISTORY AND TECHNOLOGY

History, meeting at the State University of New York, in Albany,
on status in the historical profession; and at the Second Annual South-
west Missouri Historian’s Conference, on the cultural shock of
discovery. He also addressed the Colloquium on Western Hemisphere
Studies of the Catholic University of America, the History Club of
Georgetown University, students of the Phillips Exeter Academy
working as interns with members of the Congress, and a group of
foreign students at the Conference of Asian Student Leaders, sponsored
by The Experiment in International Living. He was reelected President
of the Chesapeake Chapter of the American Studies Association,
elected a Trustee of the Japan-America Society of Washington, and
made a member of the Commandant’s Advisory Committee on
Marine Corps History.

ARMED FORCES HISTORY

Research into methods of underwater exploration and in documents
relating to sites explored continued to be the major project of Mendel L.
Peterson. Grants from the National Geographic Society made possible
the continued exploration of sites in Bermuda and a newly discovered
site in the central Bahamas. During July and August the field party
explored large areas of the western Bermuda reefs and Castle Harbor
using a flux-gate magnetometer made available by Anthony F.
Natale, Jr., of Philadelphia. Several new sites were located in this
manner.

In spring 1966 a wreck was discovered by a party of skindivers
fishing off Highborn Cay in the Exumas, central Bahamas. Photo-
graphs of the site were submitted to the museum and it was determined
that the wreck dated from the period before 1570. A preliminary
examination was made in the fall and a thorough investigation of
the site was made with the assistance of Edward B. Tucker during
February and March 1967. The discoverers of the site—Robert Wilke,
Clint Hinchman, and John Robinson—worked with the party and
bore much of the responsibility of getting equipment together and
recovering the ordnance and fittings which the site yielded. The
ordnance consisted of two lombards, or broadside pieces, and twelve
swivel guns, with a number of breechblocks for both. In addition,
three anchors, a harpoon, many lead shot for the guns and numbers
of iron fittings from the standing rigging were recovered. The nationality
of the wreck and exact period are still in question. A search of the
archives in Seville and Mexico City will be made to identify the vessel.

Peterson continued his investigation into the marking and decoration
of muzzle-loading guns. A thorough search of ordnance records in the
RESEARCH AND PUBLICATION—ARMED FORCES HISTORY 255

Timber remains of 16th-century wreck
being sketched under water by
Smithsonian Institution artist James
A. Mahoney.

Air lift in operation on site of 16th-century Spanish wreck buried in sand.
256 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967—-MUSEUM OF HISTORY AND TECHNOLOGY

Public Record Office, London, being made by a researcher, is turning
up much valuable material relating to ordnance contracts and makers’
marks of the last half of the 18th century.

Curator of military history Edgar M. Howell and museum specialist
Donald E. Kloster of the division of military history continued work
on a multivolume, comprehensive, descriptive, critical, and docu-
mentary catalog of United States Army dress to include uniforms,
headgear, and footwear. The first volume of this project, U.S. Army
Headgear to 1854, is currently in press. Much of the research for the
second and third volumes—U.S. Army Uniforms to 1857, by Kloster,
and U.S. Army Headgear, 1855 to date, by Howell—is complete and
work is continuing. This project is being performed in conjunction
with a comprehensive recataloging and documenting of the uniform
collections. This is a most significant undertaking in that the uniform
collections of the division are the most comprehensive in America.
In connection with this project, Kloster studied collections at Fort
Ticonderoga and researched the Lansing manuscript collections at
the New York Public Library and the New York Historical Society.
In addition, Howell and Kloster studied the important collection of
quartermaster “‘sealed samples” at the Quartermaster Museum,
Fort Lee, Virginia.

Howell continued his efforts to locate original graphic material
illustrative of the role of the Army in the opening and development of
the West, and Kloster completed the research and much of the writing
on a monograph on Quartermaster General M. C. Meigs’ first attempt
to publish rigid specifications to be used in the procurement of clothing
and equipage for the Army.

Associate curator Craddock R. Goins, Jr., concentrated on the
preparation of a detailed documentary catalog of the patent models
in the firearms collection, assembling patent drawings, specifications,
affidavits, and other documentary material from the National Archives
and the Patent Office.

Museum specialist Alan B. Albright continued his investigations into
the methods of preservation of materials recovered from sea water,
and museum technician Thaddeus S. Moore, his restoration of ceramic
and glass materials recovered from underwater sites.

Associate curator of naval history Edward L. Towle undertook
detailed research on the P. V. H. Weems and Admiral Richard E.
Byrd collections of navigational instruments. Preliminary catalogs and
background studies of these and other smaller groups of oceanographic,
navigational, and scientific instruments in the division’s collections
are in preparation. He continued research on a major monograph
RESEARCH AND PUBLICATION—-ARMED FORCES HISTORY 257

on United States naval exploration during the 19th century, and is
editing two previously unpublished journals illuminating American
privateering in the Atlantic, 1777-1782, and the French assault on
the Hudson’s Bay Company fur trading posts, led by Jean de la
Perouse in 1782. In conjunction with his interest in Arctic exploration,
Towle is preparing a study of the 19th-century evolution of the Arctic
research vessel which culminated in the design and construction of the
SS Roosevelt, Admiral Robert E. Peary’s successful polar steamer.

In collaboration with museum specialist Howard P. Hoffman,
curator of naval history Philip K. Lundeberg continued research on
the construction of Benedict Arnold’s squadron on Lake Champlain,
a study which will include detailed plans of the Continental gondola
Philadelphia. He continued preparation of a catalog of United States
warship models, and construction was undertaken of models of both
the gondola Philadelphia (1776) and the British ship-of-the-line America
(1749), the latter based on plans by Mr. Merritt A. Edson, Jr., of
Washington, D.C. In addition to his work on the Philadelphia model,
Hoffman prepared an exceptionally detailed set of plans of a mid-
18th-century octant constructed by Benjamin King of Newport,
Rhode Island, and temporarily on loan from Brown University. This
remarkable early octant reveals a precision of workmanship exceptional
in early American instrument making.

The department substantially expanded its educational activities in
1966, sponsoring and participating in a variety of programs for the
general public, graduate students, and professional societies. Lundeberg
and Towle presented seminars on the early steam navy and mid-19th-
century naval exploration in the Smithsonian Institution graduate
program on American civilization; they also delivered lectures to the
Smithsonian Associates on squadron warfare, commerce warfare,
naval exploration and diplomacy, and the role of the Armed Forces
in the advancement of science. Lundeberg addressed the Society of
the War of 1812 on American history as interpreted in the National
Museum, and the Association of Naval Weapons Engineers on underseas
warfare and allied strategy as a case study in deterrence. In connection
with the American studies program and the Smithsonian Associates
Goins and Kloster lectured on military history.

Some forty lectures were delivered during the year by Peterson and
Albright, including two series of five lectures each to the Smithsonian
Associates on methods of underwater exploration. At a meeting held
in association with the Naval Historical Foundation, Peterson spoke
on the study of naval ordnance on sunken ships from the 16th to 19th
centuries; and he also addressed the 19th Annual Williamsburg
258 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967—-MUSEUM OF HISTORY AND TECHNOLOGY

Antiques Forum, the biennial meeting of the Council of Underwater
Archaeology in Miami, Florida, and the annual meeting of the Com-
pany of Military Historians, in Washington.

During the year, the department played host to two Smithsonian
research associates, John C. Niven of Pomona College, who conducted
research on a forthcoming biography of Gideon Welles, and Chauncey
C. Loomis of Dartmouth College, who utilized the Charles Francis
Hall collection in the preparation of a biography of that mid-19th-
century Arctic explorer.
The Collections
CARE AND CONSERVATION — GIFTS AND ADDITIONS

Science and Technology

In electricity, particular attention has been devoted to 20th-century
apparatus. A large number of important cathode-ray tubes and tele-
vision sets associated with the career of Aldan B. DuMont has been
given by Mrs. DuMont and by the Fairchild Instrument and Camera
Corporation. The most important single item received, from Stanford
University, was a five-ton magnet constructed and used by James
Arnold and others as students of Felix Bloch in extending Bloch’s
Nobel Prize-winning research on nuclear magnetic resonance.

A collection of valuable drug jars and other objects for the 1890 Amer-
ican pharmacy exhibit was purchased from the Sydney N. Blumberg
collection through the Coca Cola fund. For the Old World apothecary
shop a 3rd-century B.C. south Italian painted terra-cotta jug, an
ancient Etruscan bronze mortar, a 4th-century B.C. Greek vase, and
an ancient Persian terra-cotta massage piece were purchased through
the Squibb fund.

Accessions in medical and dental history include prosthetic devices
used in cardiovascular surgery from about 1940 to the present, donated
by their inventor Charles A. Hufnagel; an extensive collection of
quackery devices, transferred from the Food and Drug Administration;
the first automatic disposable plastic injector syringe, donated by
Alfred R. Henderson; a cutaway model of an air-turbine surgical drill,
donated by its inventor Robert M. Hall; a collection of American
microscopes, 1868-1915, donated by Bausch and Lomb; a collection
of-replicas of historical microscopes made by Joseph D. Lucas and
donated by his widow; and an incubator bed of the kind invented by
Julius H. Hess for the care of premature babies, presented by the
Michael Reese Hospital.

Archival materials added to the civil engineering collection include
a notable collection of original linen drawings and photographs, with
supporting record journals, of the complete line of Westinghouse’s
steam, gas, and diesel engines from 1878 to the late 1920s, discovered
in a storage warehouse in South Philadelphia. Part of this group, a

Zag
260 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967—-MUSEUM OF HISTORY AND TECHNOLOGY

Magnet used in early nuclear magnetic resonance studies at Stanford University.

large series showing views of the works and its machinery, is an un-
paralleled documentation of the arrangements within a major machine
works around 1900. Also received was the valuable James Forgie col-
lection, the professional papers of one of the nation’s leading tunnel
engineers, whose career extended from the 1880s to the 1950s. Many
contractual documents, reports, and photographs help give detail on
his projects which are otherwise unobtainable.

As part of the cooperative preservation program established with the
American Society of Civil Engineers, material received from members
of the Society included an unusual Burt solar compass, donated by
Donald Curtis, and the pamphlet and report collection of Rudolph
Hering, a pioneer in the field of sanitary engineering.

The International Business Machines Corporation donated a collec-
tion of clocks, including a fine ‘‘Willard’s Patent’? banjo clock, a richly
carved skeleton model Ithaca calendar clock, and an excellent group
of industrial time clocks. A small but important collection of models
of automatic timepiece regulators was donated by Jacob Rabinow,
who invented several of them. Simplicity, low cost, and lack of need
for attention on the part of the user have made Rabinow’s designs the
first to be widely accepted. Sir Arthur Sullivan’s English verge-type
THE COLLECTIONS—SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY 261

The 24-inch reflector designed and built by George W.
Ritchey especially for photographic astronomy. Gift
of the Yerkes Observatory, for which it was built ca. 1900.

stop watch was donated by Leroy C. Brown; it was a present from Sir
Arthur to Mr. Brown’s grandfather.

Among the tools received were a Gould Brothers metal shaper of
about 1860, from the Norton Company; a fine early-19th-century
mitre box from George Lewis Jones; and a boring machine with an
original bill of sale dated 14 May 1853, from J. P. McAliley.

Of historical significance was the Yerkes Observatory gift of their
24-inch reflecting telescope by George Ritchey, one of the first really
powerful telescopes designed by the great American telescopemaker
for photographic work. A semicircumferentor of the 18th century by
Pavolini demonstrates an early use of the telescopic sight in surveying
instruments; it suggests that such sights were adopted quite early and
262 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967—-MUSEUM OF HISTORY AND TECHNOLOGY

Eighteenth-century semicircumferentor
by Pavolini, showing an early use of a
telescopic sight on asurveying instrument.

then were abandoned in the course of the century. The rock-salt
prism made by John Brashear for Samuel Langley, third secretary of
the Smithsonian, has been transferred to the physical science collections.
It was the largest such prism in the world when made, and was used
by Langley in his important studies of the intensity of solar radiation
in narrow bands of the infra-red spectrum. Georgetown University
donated an Ertel transit telescope of 1844, notably enriching the
collection of precision European instruments used in the United States.
A large and handsome 18th-century French celestial globe marks an
era in stellar astronomy. In the southern hemisphere it shows stars
observed by the Abbé La Caille and grouped into constellations
according to his book of 1763; some of the constellations are classical
heroes and animals, but a number, invented by La Caille himself, are
in the form of contemporary scientific instruments, such as a telescope,
a sextant, or a balance. A terrestrial globe of 1819 by J. Wilson is one
of the earliest globes made in the United States.

The most impressive transportation accession was a Bavarian state
chariot used during the reign of Ludwig I (1825-1848), gift of Dieter
Holterbosch. A group of valuable papers, including an engineering
drawing of Griffin Green’s pioneer steamboat of 1796, was acquired
from Walter Rumsey Marvin. The memorabilia of Horace Thorne, an
official of Westinghouse Air Brake Company, was added to the railroad
reference collection. Other accessions included ten plating half-models
of ships, from the Francis Russell Hart Nautical Museum of the Mas-
THE COLLECTIONS—ARTS AND MANUFACTURES 263

sachusetts Institute of Technology; and a bike wagon of about 1905,
representing the final development of horse-drawn vehicles.

With respect to care and use of the collections, the Clark (radio) and
Hammer (Edison) collections continue to attract researchers. To make
parts of the Clark collection more accessible, a classification of the
photographs was begun. When this is completed, the photographs will
be placed on microfilm. The vacuum-tube collection has been stored in
annotated boxes to facilitate the location of individual items. A system-
atic method of filing and storage of archival engineering materials
relating to tools has been set up, and much of the material has been
restored and repaired; the entire reference collection of the division of
physical sciences is being reshelved to improve its accessibility and make
the arrangement more consistent; and the railroad plan and oversize
print files of over 3000 items have been cataloged, and a cross index is
being prepared.

Arts and Manufactures

Deere & Company of Moline, Illinois, presented a ‘‘Waterloo Boy”’
Model N, and a John Deere Model ‘“‘D” tractor. A 1917 Fordson
tractor was given by Mrs. Frank Coron, Wantaugh, L.I.; a cheese
press by Carlton M. Gunn of Sunderland, Massachusetts; and a hand-
operated stump puller by Mr. McMechan, Joplin Globe, Joplin,
Missouri.

Some of the more important gifts of ceramics and glass were: from
Hans Syz, 23 pieces of rare 18th-century European porcelain, including
an exceptionally fine Berlin vase; Mr. and Mrs. Edward M. Pflueger,
five 18th-century ceramic items, including an outstanding Tournay
bust of Louis XV; Mrs. William A. Sutherland, eight pieces of 18th-
century English porcelain, including a fine Chelsea pitcher; Lloyd E.
Hawes, 73 pieces of 18th- and early-19th-century English earthenware,
of which 53 were various types of Wedgwood wares not heretofore
represented in the collections; the Joanne Toor Cummings fund, an
extremely fine English, salt-glazed teapot, dated about 1750; and from
Mr. and Mrs. Jack Leon, a unique collection of 62 pieces of late-18th-
and early-19th-century English, yellow glazed earthenware. The
Louise M. Packard collection of 59 pieces of ancient glass was presented
by her daughter, Mrs. Robert U. Geib.

Graphic arts accessions included a gift from Helen Farr Sloan, widow
of the American artist John Sloan (1871-1951), of his etchings and
other material, including the original copper plate and eight progressive
proofs of Sloan’s Copyist at the Metropolitan; and 25 etchings by William
Glackens; the original zinc plate and a proof of Stuart Davis’s early
etching 7wo Women; and prints by George Luks, Boardman Robinson,
264 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967—-MUSEUM OF HISTORY AND TECHNOLOGY

John Sloan’s original copper plate for the etching Copyist at the Metropolitan,
of 1908-1910, a recent gift to the Smithsonian from Mrs. Helen Farr Sloan.

Reginald Marsh, Peggy Bacon, Don Freeman, and other American
artists. Also received were Emil Nolde’s aquatint etching Staatsmann
und Burger of 1918; blocks and progressive proofs of Carol Summers’
color woodcut Fontana; 20 examples of O. F. Liebner’s early offset
lithographic printing; the only known etching by Robert Henri, from
Robert Chapellier; Harold Isen’s lithograph Brigham Young, from the
Washington Society of Printmakers; and the plates and progressive
proofs of Milton Goldstein’s color etching On the Beach, gift of the artist.

Equipment for a printing shop display was given by Mr. and Mrs.
William Elvin. This material, in use at the Fairfax (Virginia) Herald
since 1882, comprises composing frames, type cabinets, imposing tables,
type cases and type, and many associated tools and records.

The coliection of photographs was enriched by the purchase of 60
calotype paper negatives and prints, dating from 1839 to the mid-
1840s, from the personal collection of William Henry Fox Talbot,
inventor of the first practicable paper photographs. Obtained through
THE COLLECTIONS—ARTS AND MANUFACTURES 265

the recently established History of Photography fund, these substan-
tially increased the Smithsonian’s already important holdings of Talbot
materials.

Magazine and fashion photographer Richard Avedon presented
239 of his original negatives, with prints, adding to the 100 original
negatives and prints he donated in 1965. Some ten thousand glass-
plate negatives of news subjects of the early 1900s, from the files of
Underwood and Underwood News Photos, were donated by Mrs. John
M. Stratton. The news photographs presented by the Associated Press
and United Press International for the exhibition ‘““Twenty Years of
News Photography”’ were added to the print collection, documenting
the history of photo-journalism. More than sixty photographs of herons
(ca. 1954-1966) by Tokutaro Tanaka, displayed in the exhibition
“Tanaka: Photographs of Heron Hill,” were also added to the col-
lection. “Portrait of Rafael Sala” (1924), by Edward Weston, and
a selection of prints (ca. 1890-1905) by the 19th-century British
photographer Frederick Evans were added to the collection of rare
prints made by the now extinct platinum-printing medium. Photo-
graphs by Arnold Genthe were donated by Miss Byrd Crimora Hazelton
and Mrs. Edwin L. Ashton.

Attitudes of two 19th-century painters toward photography are
illustrated by the painting The Magic Box (1858), by the Belgian
artist Camille Venneman, and a lithograph and a woodcut by the
French satirist Honoré Daumier (ca. 1862), acquired during the
year.

Additions to the equipment collection included the latest complete
Graflex XL camera system of interchangeable modular units, given
by Graflex, Inc., and an example of one of the first ‘“‘zoom’’ lenses
(ca. 1930), manufactured by Otto Durholz and donated by his son
Gustav Durholz.

From Mrs. B. K. Nehru was received an unusual black and white
Indian shawl; from Mrs. J. Roswell Gallagher, a collection of 53
handwoven early-19th-century American figured table linens, and six
volumes of hand-drawn diagrams of their weaves, the subject of a book
written by the donor; from Mrs. H. F. Hallock, Jr., spinning and
weaving implements used by her ancestors in Rumford, Maine,
during the first half of the 19th century. An important 18th-century
embroidery frame, an 18th-century blue-resist-dyed cotton quilt, and
two spinning wheels of unrepresented types were also added to the
collections.

Kenneth E. Jewett gave the remainder of his collection of tinsmith’s
ware, and from donors in Pennsylvania were received a number of
artifacts relating to the early coal industry.
266 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967—-MUSEUM OF HISTORY AND TECHNOLOGY

Quarter-scale model of 24-
spindle Slater spinning frame
of 1790, made in the Museum
model shop by John W. Schultz
for exhibit in textile hall now
under construction. Actual size
of the 1790 frame in inches:
height, 63; length, 66; and
width, 10.

A survey of the reference collections of agriculture and forest prod-
ucts and a definitive catalog are in progress. A long-range program
was begun to rearrange, inventory, and cross-index the study collections
of ceramics and glass.

In the course of reorganizing the photomechanical collection some
100 prints were repaired and 400 new mats cut. The printing shop
equipment from the Fairfax Herald was cleaned and refinished for use
in printing demonstrations and much old type from the same source
was Cleaned and sorted.

Study of the preservation and restoration of the earliest photographs
in the Museum’s collection, extended to all types of photographs, has
contributed to the establishment of standards for the treatment and
preservation of specimens in the print collection. Original patent
specifications were obtained for each patent model in the collection
of about 3000 items of photographic equipment.

The textile laboratory was heavily occupied with cleaning and
repairing items for the exhibit Victorian Needlework, for the growth of
the United States halls, the forthcoming exhibit of the Copp family
textiles, and for other departments of the Museum.

The staff of the division of manufactures and heavy industries was
occupied with the preparation of material for the hall of petroleum
and in becoming familiar with the demonstration exhibits, including
several intricate and unique presentations illustrative of the techniques
of oil-reservoir engineering.
THE COLLECTIONS—CIVIL HISTORY 267
Civil History

Additions to the cultural history collections-included a fine 1860
schoolroom interior from Mason’s Island near Mystic, Connecticut,
from the Mason’s Island Company; and a quality series of Hispanic
religious panels (retablos) trom 19th-century New Mexico given by
Mrs. William C. F. Robards of Washington, D.C., niece of the Okla-
homa missionary who collected them before 1920. The archeological
excavations in Alexandria, Virginia, yielded a unique collection of
cultural materials giving evidence of colonial tradesmen—shoemaker,
potter, doctor, coppersmith, pharmacist, combmaker and tavern
keeper. Richard J. Muzzrole undertook both the excavation and
restoration programs.

The complex task of organizing information about cultural history
objects was skillfully advanced by Betty Walters, who worked with a
Termatrex data-retrieval system.

Among the 132 examples added to the American costume collections
were two gold watches given by Mrs. Robert Callen King and two
Quaker wedding dresses given by Mrs. H. E. Snyder.

Several Appalachian dulcimers were acquired by Scott Odell on a
field trip to the southern mountains and through correspondence with
a Tennessee dealer. Further augmenting the collection of traditional
American musical instruments, a rare 19th-century banjo made by the
important early maker, Henry Dobson, was given by Mr. Hermann W.
Williams, Jr., Director of the Corcoran Gallery of Art; and a Theremin
(an electronic instrument) made by RCA was given by Mrs. Ralph
Richards.

Iconography has only recently been properly utilized and its im-
portance appreciated as a primary source in studies of the history of
musical instruments. The file of iconography on musical instru-
ments now numbers approximately 1200 cataloged and indexed
photographs and color reproductions from collections in the United
States, Europe, and the British Isles. Several hundred more are in the
process of being cataloged and new material is constantly being added.

Robert Sheldon of the musical instruments laboratory staff put a
19th-century serpent into playing condition and also did restoration
work on several other wind instruments, including an 18th-century
natural trumpet. Scott Odell began the restoration of the 1760 French
harpsichord by Benoist Stehlin. The laboratory staff, with the assistance
of volunteer workers from the Smithsonian Associates, continued the
extensive task of cleaning and repairing specimens. This work has
been integrated with the preparation of checklists for the various
categories of musical instruments in the collection.
968 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967—-MUSEUM OF HISTORY AND TECHNOLOGY

To the Ralph E. Becker collection of political campaign objects
the donor added several handpainted 19th-century political banners.
From Mrs. Dwight D. Eisenhower was received a fuchsia matelassé
evening gown.

Work has continued on completing the record of each dress in the
First Ladies collection. Mrs. Sarah Lee Taft, a professional pattern
maker from New York, has prepared patterns and sewing instructions
for three more dresses, those of Mrs. Coolidge, Mrs. Harding, and Mrs.
Wilson.

A systematic remounting of the lithographs in the Harry T. Peters
lithography collection was undertaken.

To the numismatic collections Willis H. duPont donated a group of
634 silver and copper coins of Russia struck from 1826 to 1841, during
the reign of Czar Nicholas I, and Mrs. Catherine Bullowa-Moore
contributed a decadrachm of Syracuse (Sicily) engraved by the famous
artist Euainetos around 390 B.C. A group of 44 Greek bronze coins,
from the Duke of Argyll and Charles Seltman collections, and a group
of rare Athenian fractional silver coins from the 5th to 4th centuries
B.C., were given by the Messrs. Stack.

To the philately collections a Venetian letter dated 1390—the earliest
on paper in the division—was given by John F. Rider and an extremely
rare strip of North West Pacific Island stamps, by Ralph Hoffman.
One of the few remaining mail carriers of the New York pneumatic
tube system was donated by the Lamson Corporation.

Armed Forces History

Among the materials acquired in the underwater exploration
program were a Randall diving knife, presented by the designer and
maker W. D. Randall, and three diving suits with accessories, presented
by U.S. Divers Co., through Tommy Thompson. Interesting acquisi-
tions from the Virginia Company ship Eagle, wrecked on the Bermuda
reefs in 1659, are a hand plane, auger handle, tobacco pipes, pewter
mug, wooden dough tray, and pewter bottle tops. Also received were
a set of goldsmith’s crucibles, possibly of the early 17th century;
silver buckles from the San Antonio, which sank in 1621; and personal
effects and ship’s equipment from the L’Herminie, which went down in
1838.

William (Bill) Mauldin donated six of his famous ‘‘Willie and Joe”
cartoons of World War II to the military history collections. A rare
17th-century wrought-iron cannon was received from John N. Albright,
and a significant collection of World War I situation maps, including
a rare operations map from General John J. Pershing’s headquarters,
was donated by Lieutenant Colonel R. C. Beaudry.
THE COLLECTIONS—-ARMED FORCES HISTORY 269

To the military collections were added a unique staff officer’s undress
coat, circa 1821, and a cased set of 65 gauges for the U.S. rifle model
1841. These gauges, used by inspectors of arms and obtained from
William Guthman, are among the earliest produced for establishing
accuracy in quantity production and thus are most important in the
development of the interchangeable-parts system of manufacturing.

An excellent collection of hand and shoulder firearms, cartridges,
and dealers’ catalogs and brochures was donated by Commander
Clark E. Kauffman, USN (Ret.). The weapons are excellent examples
of a wide variety of multibarrel, pepperbox, and revolving-cylinder
systems, and breechloaders. These acquisitions make it possible to
prepare a more representative exhibit on the development of breech-
loading and repeating systems.

Additions to the collection of warship models included the Conti-
nental schooner Hannah, one of the vessels in General George Wash-
ington’s Massachusetts Bay squadron of 1776; and the torpedo-boat
destroyer Decatur, representing another significant step in the evolution
of the modern destroyer. In addition, builders’ half models of the
dreadnought battleships North Dakota and Nevada and the predread-
nought Connecticut were received from the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology.

Among personal memorabilia received was a silver medal, presented
by Congress in 1813 to Midshipman (later Surgeon) Bailey Washington
for his services in the engagement between USS Enterprise and HMS
Boxer, donated by Mrs. John W. Davidge of Washington, D.C.
Through Captain Roger Pineau, USNR, the division of naval history
received a portfolio of 27 contemporary Japanese prints and broadsides
and a contemporary Japanese diary relating to Commodore Matthew
C. Perry’s expedition to the Far East in 1853-54. A large Confederate
national ensign taken by Union naval forces during Burnside’s attack
on Roanoke Island on February 8, 1862, was donated by Mrs. G. F.
Connal Rowan of Stirlingshire, Scotland.

Museum specialist Alan B. Albright and museum technician Thad-
deus S. Moore continued to restore and preserve materials recovered
from the sea in the underwater exploration program. Moore made
extensive restorations of ceramic vessels and restored iron objects by
electrochemical reduction. Wooden objects were preserved by the
polyethylene-glycol process. Experiments were continued with various
cleaning formulas and preservatives for treating metallic cartridges to
prevent corrosion and oxidation of lead.

The restoration and additional documentation of navigation instru-
ments in the P. V. H. Weems and related collections continued. A
number of broadsides in the Charles Francis Hall collection were
270 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967—-MUSEUM OF HISTORY AND TECHNOLOGY

laminated by the National Archives, and similar preservation is
planned for the extensive collection of naval posters of World Wars I

and IT.
SPECIMEN TRANSACTIONS—FISCAL YEAR 1967
Accessions Trans- — Lent for
(transac- ferred to study to
tions) Exchanged other Gov- investigators
1967 Received with other ernment and other Specimens
Departments (new) onloan institutions agencies institutions identified
Science and
Technology . . 157 143 19 0) 47 8
Arts and Man-
lifactunesin-seeiee ae 178 183 2 0) 153 2, 501
Civil History . . . 773 34 18 0 439 114, 833
Armed Forces
FAIStonye 5) 89 16 0 0 35 816
Soran) setae lino? 376 39 0 672 118, 158

SPECIMENS IN THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS MAY

SCIENCE, AND). TEGHNOLOGYi0,028. |: De oe oh pti oe io ee

PhiysiC al SClEnGeSiys ian 2 vis acre ts ea eee Ce 4, 672
Mechanical and Civil Engineering.............. oraou
Electricity or Oo oe oa oes ene aie ele en ee ee 8, 132
MransportaviGi. 2 sehas Adalat Gaetan Stee Shee 43, 109
MiedicaltSciencés.21 aachy.. ee a es ices 36, 863
ARTS SANDAIMIANURAGTURES 4 ons cen operon acto ek ci i ene
MEXEULES mcs Cater iat tonerchie UTM o Ie MEER S Ode eR EE 35, 740
@eramicstand’ Glass) sien sa tie ae ae 17, 894
GraphicevArts fet 2. 6s ee ee aes ohare ee 53, 652
Manufactures and Heavy Industries............. 35, 822
Agriculture and Forest Products................ 10, 634
CIV IT LIST ORY pc Sacac nics Segoe eee ee ee
Political History)... fi. dock. steg ews ee uae 49, 224
Cultural History? 5... i oie fe) ee rt ere eee 24, 771
Philately ‘and Postaliistory. 2). o> ete 10, 166, 009
Musical Instruments) see. aa ee eee 43
INGMISMATICS! rsncytskcevskous Chsacadcko aoe ee eee 313, 852
ARMED? HORGCES HISTORY =o) o oreeice cues Cae
Military (History... 2 oe ce 6g io sers oe cle rn eae 42, 527
INavalU History. ccc ce eek eo oer ne ore sone the 13, 495

315 Fer

105, 206

153, 742

10, 553, 899

56, 020

10, 868, 867
Exhibits

The hall of medical sciences was formally opened in August 1966,
with George Griffenhagen, of the American Pharmaceutical Associa-
tion, and George Arrington, Jr., of the Virginia Medical College, as
speakers for the occasion.

In January the hall of power machinery was opened to the public.
Operation of the large machinery has raised technical problems which
are being worked out. Installation of a compressed-air system to drive
the hall’s steam engines is expected this year.

Progress toward completing the vehicle hall was achieved in
February with the installation of ten different kinds of road surfaces.
Old stone blocks and cobblestones were obtained from abandoned
roadways, and a section of plank road was found in southeastern
California. A steam-locomotive sound recording was added to the
railroad hall; the whistle sounds are those of the huge locomotive
(No. 1401) on exhibit.

Alterations in the hall of tools include installation of guard railings
around the machine-tool platforms to make public demonstrations
safe, and an enclosure to house projection equipment for a film on
machine tools. New individual exhibits completed or in progress are
a Gleason bevel-gear cutting machine of 1876; a Gould shaper of 1860;
and the workshop of a wealthy amateur ornamental turner.

In collaboration with the department of American studies a special
exhibit on 15th-century cartography was produced in conjunction
with the conference on the Vinland map, which was loaned by Yale
University for the period of the conference.

A special racing-car exhibit was produced in May to assist the
Smithsonian Society of Associates in promoting their film night
featuring the ‘“‘Grand Prix.” An authentic 19-century omnibus toured
the Mall during the Smithsonian’s festivities celebrating the April |
start of the Museum’s summer hours and the establishment of the
Department of Transportation.

The hall of health was opened for a reception for wives of physicians
attending the International Congress of Gynecologists and Obstetricians,
at which time the newly renovated Transparent Woman was set into
operation.

A special exhibit featuring the Oscillatom atom clock was held
during April prior to its being sent to EXPO 67 in Montreal.

271
272 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967—-MUSEUM OF HISTORY AND TECHNOLOGY

PIONEERS oF SURGICAL

Mev mE Aniecet rica ae ANESTURS14

ANESTHESYA MACHT

In new hall of medical sciences, pioneers of surgical anesthesia are honored.
Below: Electro-therapeutic static machine of the late 19th century, designed to
“treat”? a variety of nervous, muscular, and other disorders.

EXHIBITS 273

Among loans made for exhibitions elsewhere were about 60 duplicate
items from the electricity collection, to the Birla Industrial Museum
in Calcutta; collections of quackery devices and patent medicines,
loaned to the Illinois Chapter of the Arthritis Foundation for their
exhibit at the Museum of Science and Industry in Chicago; and the
first electrocardiograph of its kind to be used in Washington, D.C.,
to the Washington Heart Association for display in the lobby of the
District Medical Society building as a memorial to Dr. Thomas
Simms Lee.

For a future exhibit, Roy LaRoche is building a television system
operating according to techniques available in the 1920s. For the
hall of electricity, he is also building a special “‘teaching machine.”
William Henson organized material on the history of machine tools
for use by volunteer docents now conducting tours on a regular basis.

A special exhibition of Wedgwood porcelain (bone china) of the
first period (1812-1822) and of Wedgwood portrait medallions was
prepared in connection with the Twelfth Annual Wedgwood Inter-
national Seminar held at the Smithsonian, May 3 through May 6,
1967. This exhibition, continued through June 22, enabled collectors
and students to see a large group of early Wedgwood porcelains and
over 400 portrait medallions—some of great rarity. A number of
recent accessions were placed on exhibition in both the glass and
ceramic halls, 62 pieces from the Leon collection of English yellow
glazed earthenware of the late 18th and early 19th century being of
special interest.

Australian Prints Today, the first exhibition of its kind in the United
States, was held in the graphic arts gallery from July 15 to October 15,
1966. Rembrandt’s Complete Landscape Etchings, on loan from museums
and private collections, and on exhibit from November 8, 1966, to
January 31, 1967, received extensive press coverage. Prints by Sue
Jane Smock opened in October 1966 and Six Danish Graphic Artists, in
February 1967.

Preparations were made for a new permanent display of 19th-
century hand printing. Regular demonstrations of typesetting and
printing, using the Columbian press, will be given in the hall of
graphic arts.

Twenty Years of News Photography, an exhibition of more than 130
photographs, selected by the curator of photography and donated by
the Associated Press and United Press International, attracted con-
siderable public interest from May to September 1966, and more than
sixty photographs of herons by the distinguished Japanese photographer
Tokutaro Tanaka have been on exhibition since March 8, 1966.
274 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967—-MUSEUM OF HISTORY AND TECHNOLOGY

At opening of the exhibit Australian
Prints Today, in July 1966, were Daniel
Thomas, Curator of the Art Gallery
of New South Wales, Sydney, Australia;
Peter Morse, associate curator of graphic
arts; and Australian Ambassador John
Keith Waller. On the wall is Sidney
Nolan’s lithograph, Portrait of Kelly.

Victorian Needlework, or the Rise of the Printed Pattern, the first Smith-
sonian traveling exhibition of three-dimensional objects from the
collections, was prepared and a two-month preview showing was
held in the Museum. Because of the many requests for the exhibit,
its scheduled travel time of two years was extended to three.

The spinning demonstration given for one hour each week continues
to be well received; its schedule is regularly reported on ‘‘Dial-a-
Museum.” Special demonstrations were also given on request to special
groups and to school groups at both the elementary and college level.

The hall of petroleum was formally opened on June 28, 1967, in the
presence of a large company of the oil industry engineers and specialists,
representative of those who collaborated in its development. A pre-
view of the hall had been given on January 30, 1967, to government
officials and industry executives and members of the National Petro-
leum Council. Much interest was shown especially in the magnificent
57-foot mural, commissioned by a group of Tulsa, Oklahoma, oil men
and executed by Delbert Jackson of Tulsa.

A special exhibit on isotope-radiography was continued, while,
during the year, some models illustrative of various steel-making
processes, prepared for the hall of iron and steel by the Bethlehem Steel
Corporation, were placed on temporary exhibition.

To the display devoted to the culture of the American Negro will be
added displays presenting the role of the Negro in the development of
American life.
EXHIBITS 275

A special exhibition, Music Making—American Style, displaying
significant genteel and folk traditions in the history of American music,
included groupings of pianos selected to illustrate American con-
tributions to piano construction techniques, folk instruments made
by mountain craftsmen, Benjamin Franklin’s set of musical glasses
(called the Armonica), American banjos, paintings by Americans
of Americans performing music, and collections of music with special
American notation. With the use of imaginative wire figures, jazz
musicians, folk musicians, and 19th-century brass band players were
shown in ensembles typical of their eras.

The wedding dress of Mrs. Dwight D. Eisenhower was placed on
special exhibit in the First Ladies Hall to honor the 50th wedding
anniversary of General and Mrs. Eisenhower. As part of a preliminary
celebration of the Bicentennial of the American Revolution, an exhibit
commemorating the 175th anniversary of the Bill of Rights gave special
attention to the contributions of George Mason of Virginia toward
its establishment.

On June 6, 1967, two halls of the growth of the United States exhibit
were opened to the public. Covering the period 1640-1851, they
contain many objects of particular interest representing the arts,
technology, and science. Included are a printing press used by Ben-
jamin Franklin, the wheels and gears from a 1774 grist mill from Chester
County, Pennsylvania, and a house frame from Ipswich, Massachusetts,
dating from the 1690s and the 1750s.

The hall of underwater exploration, newly opened to the public,
treats the study of historic underwater sites and trade routes in the
Western Hemisphere, Spanish-American treasure, the history of diving,
modern methods of diving and of locating wrecks, and surveying,
measuring, and recovery techniques. Display objects come from sites
dating as early as 1595. The use of diving techniques in various dis-
ciplines and new deep-diving research are presented in photographs
and models.

Contributors to the hall include Edwin A. Link, Edward B. Tucker,
Arthur McKee, M &E Marine Supply Company, U.S. Divers Com-
pany, The American Rolex Watch Corporation, National Geographic
Society, Ocean Systems, General Dynamics Corporation, Lockheed
Missiles and Space Company, W. D. Randall, Westinghouse Corpora-
tion, and the Reynolds Aluminum Corporation. The hall was designed
by Nadya Kayaloff. Production and installation were under the direc-
tion of Frank Gambino. Models and special devices exhibited in
the hall were produced by the exhibits laboratory model shop under
the supervision of Robert Klinger.
276 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967—-MUSEUM OF HISTORY AND TECHNOLOGY

The special exhibition Battle Art, American Expeditionary Forces, 1918, was held
during spring 1967.

Design and production of the hall of armed forces history, 1865 to
date, occupied the staff during the year. Curator Edgar M. Howell of
the division of military history organized the special exhibition Battle
Art, American Expeditionary Forces, 1918, for which he prepared an
illustrated catalog.

Additional exhibits installed in the halls of the Armed Forces of the
United States included detailed models of USS Hartford and CSS
Tennessee, arranged by curator Philip K. Lundeberg to represent their
historic duel at Mobile Bay in 1864, and of the 16-inch-gun battleship
Missouri, a superbly executed model completed by Gibbs and Cox of
New York during her construction in World War II. Completed and
ready for installation was the deck section of a late 18th-century Ameri-
can privateer, designed by museum specialist Howard P. Hoffman, and
including an original low-trunnioned carronade.
Staff Publications

OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR

Bepini, Sitvio A., and Mappison, Francis R. Mechanical universe.
Transactions of the American Philosophical Society (October 1966),
new ser., vol. 56, pt. 65, pp. 1-69.

, and Price, DEREK DE SOLLA. Instrumentation. Jn Technology

in Western Civilization, edit. Melvin Kranzberg and Carroll

Pursell, Jr., vol. 1, pp. 168-187. New York: Oxford University

Press, 1967.

. An early optical lens-grinding lathe. Technology and Culture
(Winter 1967), vol. 8, no. 1, pp. 74-77.

MuttHauF, Ropert P. The origins of chemistry. 412 pp. London:
Oldbourne Press, 1967,

. Industrial chemistry in the nineteenth century. Jn Technology

in Western Civilization, edit. Melvin Kranzberg and Carroll

Pursell, Jr., pp. 468-488. New York: Oxford University Press,

1967.

SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY

Battison, Epwin A. Eli Whitney and the milling machine. Smithsonian
Journal of History (Summer 1966), vol. 1, no. 2, pp. 9-34.

CALVERT, Monte A. The mechanical engineer in America, 1830-1910:
Professional cultures in conflict. 296 pp. Baltimore: Johns Hopkins
University Press, 1967.

. The Wilmington Board of Trade, 1867-1875. Delaware His-
tory (April 1967), vol. 13, no. 3, pp. 175-197.

Cannon, WALTER F. John Herschel. Jn Encyclopedia of philosophy,
pp. 490-491, New York, 1966.

GEOGHEGAN, WILLIAM E.; Basoco, R. H.; and Meru, F. J., eds. A
British view of the Union Navy, 1964. A report addressed to Her
Majesty’s Minister at Washington. American Neptune (January
1967), vol. 27, no. 1, pp. 30-45.

HaAMARNEH, Sami K. Arabic historiography as related to the health
professions in medieval Islam. Sudhoff’s Archiv (March 1966),
vol. 50, no. 1, pp. 2-24.

. Lospeziale e il famacista nell’Islam. Quaderni di Merceologia,

vol. 4, fasc. 2, pp. 1-11, 1965.

277
278 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967—-MUSEUM OF HISTORY AND TECHNOLOGY

. The pharmaceutical exhibition at the Smithsonian. American

Journal of Hospital Pharmacy (November 1966), vol. 23, pp.

604-609.

. The pharmaceutical collection at the Smithsonian. Pharmac y
in History, vol. 9, pp. 55-64, 1967.

Jackson, Me tvin H. Sir Francis Drake’s ‘Cadiz Letter.’ Smith-
sonian Journal of History (Spring 1966), vol. 1, no. 1, pp. 75-76.

Stvow!TcH, E.utiotr N. Musical broadcasting in the 19th century. |
Audio (June 1967), vol. 51, no. 6, pp. 19-23.

WuiTE, JoHN H. By steam car to Mt. Lookout: The Cincinnati and |
Columbia Street Railroad. Bulletin of the Cincinnati Historical
Society (April 1967), vol. 25, no. 2, pp. 93-107.

. James Milholland and early railroad engineering. Paper 69 in.

Contributions from the Museum of History and Technology (U.S.

National Museum Bulletin 252), pp. 1-36, 1967. :

|
|
ARTS AND MANUFACTURES |

Aprosko, Rita J. Le Systéme de tissage ““Summer and Winter.”

L’Industrie Textile, no. 947, pp. 409-411, Paris, June 1966.
Also transl. into Dutch, De Tex (January 1967), vol. 26, no. 1,
pps s0-ol. |

——. Some versatile American dye plants. Potomac Herb Journal
(June 1967), vol. 3; no.\2;,pp.7-13.

———. Weaving: structure and design of woven textiles. Jn Encyclo-
paedia Britannica, vol. 23, pp. 343-345, 1967.

Cooper, Grace R. Sewing machine. Jn Encyclopaedia Britannica,
vol. 20, pp. 286-287, 1967. |

. Weaving: origin and’ development of the loom. Jn Encyclo-
paedia Britannica, vol. 23, pp. 345-348, 1967.

GARDNER, PAUuL V., and MILLER, J. JEFFERSON II. Catalog of a special |
Exhibition of Wedgwood. Twelfth Annual Wedgwood Inter-
national Seminar, 17 pp., 1967. |

KaInEN, JAcos. The etchings of Canaletto. 63 pp., 44 illustr. Washing-_
ton: Smithsonian Institution Press, publ. 4676, April 20, 1967.

McHucu, Maureen Co tins. How to wet clean undyed cotton and
linen. Smithsonian Institution Information Leaflet no. 478, 10 pp.,
illustr., 1967.

MILLER, J. JEFFERSON II. A porcelain pitcher by Tucker. Smithsonian
Journal of History (Summer 1966), vol. 1, no. 2, pp. 69-70.

Morse, Peter. Australian prints today [exhibition catalog]. 7 pp.
Washington: Smithsonian Institution, publ. 4684, 1966.

PUBLICATIONS 279

OsTROFF, EuGENE. Restoration of photographs by neutron activation.
Science (October 7, 1966), vol. 154, no. 3745, pp. 119-123.

———. Talbot’s earliest extant print, June 20, 1835, rediscovered.
Photographic Science and Engineering (November—December
1966), vol. 10, no. 6, pp. 350-354.

SCHLEBECKER, JOHN T. Agriculture. Jn New Catholic Encyclopedia,
New York: McGraw-Hill, 1967.

———. Research in agricultural history at the Smithsonian Institu-
tion. Agricultural History (July 1966), vol. 40, pp. 207-210.
———. The combine made in Stockton. The Pacific Historian

(Autumn, 1966), vol. 10, pp. 14-18.

. (Articles on): Cattle; Swine; Goats; Camels; Sheep; Fur and
Leather; Fur Farming; Dairy Products; Casein. Jn Cowles Com-
prehensive Encyclopedia, New York, 1966.

—_—. A history of American dairying. 48 pp., illustr. Chicago:
Rand McNally & Co., 1967.

WESssEL, THomas R. Prologue to the shelterbelt, 1870 to 1934. Journal
of the West (January, 1967), vol. 6, pp. 119-134.

CIVIL HISTORY

CLAIN-STEFANELLI, VLADIMIR. Birds on coins. Jn Birds in Our Lives,
pp. 90-97, illustr. Washington: U.S. Department of the Interior,
Fish and Wildlife Service, 1966.

———. The Moritz Wormser memorial exhibit. The Numismatist,
vol. 79, no. 10, pp. 1278-1280, illustr., 1966.

Gorpon, Leo. Philately in the Smithsonian Institution, Philatelic
Observer (May-June 1967), vol. 4, no. 5, pp. 2-3.

Hoover, Cynruta A., and OpELL, Scott, ed. A checklist of keyboard
instruments at the Smithsonian Institution. Prepared by the staff
of the division of musical instruments. 80 pp., 7 figs.

McCaLt, Francis J. Malaya. Introduction By Belmont Faries.
Society of Philatelic Americans Journal (April 1967), vol. 29,
no. 8, pp. 530-547.

Me.per, KeirH E. The American parade of politics, 1788-1960.
24 pp. Washington: Smithsonian Institution Press, pubi. 4696,
1967.

Murray, AnnE W. Sunshades, parasols and umbrellas. Antiques
(April 1967), vol: 91, no. 4, pp. 475, 492-495.

Norsy, Remar. Scandinavian stamp lexicon. Scandinavian Scribe,
vol. 2, pp. 225-228, 1966; and vol. 3, pp. 13-14, 19-20, 41-44,
61-64, 79-80, 85-86, 117-120, 135-138, 1967.

———. The Smithsonian’s Swedish mail box. The Posthorn (April
1967), vol. 24, no. 2, pp. 17-20.
280 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967—-MUSEUM OF HISTORY AND TECHNOLOGY

OvELL, Scott. 18th-century French harpsichord. Smithsonian Journal
of History (Fall 1966), vol. 1, no. 3, pp. 67-69.

SCHEELE, CARL H. Zoned addresses—the early experiments. Society of
Philatelic Americans Journal (June 1967), vol. 29, no. 10, pp.
657-663.

Watkins, C. Matcoum. Description of California folk art. Smithsonian
Journal of History (Fall 1966), vol. 1, no. 3, pp. 73-74.

WEILL, Victor H., and ScHEELE, Cart H. Postal issues of France and
colonies at the Smithsonian Institution. France & Colonies
Philatelist (July 1966), vol. 22, no. 8, pp. 169-173.

———, and ScHEELE, Car H. The national collection at the Smith-
sonian. Western Stamp Collector, August 13, 1966, p. 8.

WELSH, PETER C. A continuing tradition. Jn The March of America:
An exhibition celebrating National Library Week, including the
basic library of 100 titles, The March of America, published in
facsimile by University Microfilms Library Services, Xerox
Education Division [pp. 9-14]. Prepared by Xerox Corporation
for the National Collection of Fine Arts, April 1967.

. Productive in their pleasures. Smithsonian Journal of History

(Summer 1966), vol. 1, no. 2, pp. 1-8.

. The trotter. American Heritage (December 1966), vol. 18,

pp. 30-49.

. Folk art and the history museum. Curator, vol. 10, no. 1,

pp. 60-78, 1967.

AMERICAN STUDIES

WasHBuRN, WitcomB E. The age of discovery. Service Center for
Teachers of History, publ. 63, 26 pp. Washington, D.C.: American
Historical Association, 1966.

. Logan’s speech, 1774. Jn An American primer, edit. Daniel J.

Boorstin, pp. 60-64. Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1966.

. The Influence of the Smithsonian Institution on intellectual

life in mid-nineteenth-century Washington. Jn Records of the

Columbia Historical Society of Washington, D.C., 1963-1965,

edit. by Francis C. Rosenberger, pp. 96-121. Washington, 1966.

. Symbol, utility, and aesthetics in the Indian fur trade.

Minnesota History (Winter 1966), vol. 40, no. 4, pp. 198-202.

. Grandmotherology and museology. Curator, vol. 10, no. 1,

pp. 43-48, 1967.

. Vision of life for the Mall. ATA Journal (March 1967) vol. 47,

NO:! 3, Ppa J2-o4-

PUBLICATIONS 281

. The intellectual assumptions and consequences of geo-
graphical exploration in the Pacific. In The Pacific Basin: A
history of its geographical exploration, edit. Herman R. Friis,
pp. 321-334, American Geographical Society, spec. publ. 38, 1967.
. Power in Washington: A ZIP-coded directory. Potomac
Magazine, The Washington Post, April 16, 1967, pp. 48-54.

. Washington, D.C. Jn Collier’s Encyclopedia, vol. 23, pp.
304-312, 1967.

ARMED FORCES HISTORY

ALBRIGHT, ALAN B. The preservation of small water-logged wood
specimens with polyethylene glycol. Curator (September 1966),
vol. 9, no. 3, pp. 228-234, 3 figs.

HowE Lt, Epcar M. Battle art, American Expeditionary Forces, 1918.
22 pp., 10 illus. Washington: Smithsonian Institution Press,
publ. 4700, 1967.

LuUNDEBERG, Puitip K. Undersea warfare and allied strategy in
World War I (Part I: to 1916). Smithsonian Journal of History
(Fall 1966), vol. 1, no. 3, pp. 1-30.

PETERSON, MENDEL. Wired ball for small arms, 1594-1715. Military
Collector & Historian (Fall 1966), vol. 18, no. 3, pp. 84-86, 6
figs.

. Ordnance materials recovered from late sixteenth-century

wreck site. Military Collector and Historian (Spring 1967), vol. 19,

no, 1} pp: 1-8:

. Lost gold from the sea. Jewelers Circular Keystone, pp. 158-165,

11 figs., June 1967.

. Exploration of historic wreck sites on the Bermuda reefs.
North Atlantic currents in colonial times. Jn the 19th Annual
Williamsburg Antiques Forum, pp. 43-44, January 22—February 3,
1967.

Tow.e, Epwarp L. Perceptions of regionality in the Great Lakes
Basin. Revue de Géographie de Montréal; vol. 20, pp. 75-84 ,1966.

—_——. Matthew Fontaine Maury’s 1845 defense plan for the Great
Lakes frontier. Inland Seas, Quarterly Journal of the Great
Lakes Historical Society, vol. 22, pp. 267-282, 1966.

PAR. WOu ACRE SET ORIG, Facttey ReariRicieaaete desurties
A ‘el tice etont fio echt ostin senna
with, A msovell tiie, peemalyre wii deprcyoeiny aid
Toe, HE je lincy oe Une eee er | ro “ine er) Wee aE =
ie aediogih inhex Th A -nomgoutre Wi ad
de OP wea bees ei lived, aes ed cditon Vd )
OG tS ez lugelzeweti aes lile) vl ch) gt th

; i: Sepa > vy) i
7.

| - end
1 va ‘THO RAAT QOS YE
ae,

bs * Cone 0 mist

=

‘= iy
base fd bsgEns aie / filet 7 yd d raed: “wtt a iy
p< {

4 (paet” helt Urata ey Wii! Syl i, ey Pin slang ‘a
. fen r eu Rie

BIG Sas Vara BT oe ee ea virted:
set NEL ou of nats TU) “aedbe ae .
re Pia. Cal iy afi tabard

ageltt 6) TRVont Wore PUA ; ie

ar ; qe <

a wet Xtgertt ae [ale Sars
a } x 1 ‘ } laae lt: thie
rudnod-alimatda stg) ott bases es daivedars Barr
CF 4647 ry Ay ree } bahadect Lis yrdolle iG eo

me 7

foiede! qq c0MrsA i) te ett y a one oc

thoy ghusirat els, o la pkg yor ae oyun
isnathy MES, salt ied lanenig v every “BE
0 veasiide Sk ysquiae) biotch lay Ae De
: 2s. ~f CN 23
ri Jer Pie A) ao oEK mm Meme, oy Here |
ALL Pied pocy 08 hers naherere rb lencea sep gilt
VIED. AG NO? ele gagioink: AHL cenit soley et
Sti) ult, iy faecal” sein fet teva

; yiQPM2 |, BBS ~S GE se Ghrgele ane ‘ePIEMIR

af 4 ; 4 un Me ‘

ive f Lees (DY a ous,

fi og if % : + % Te MY \> hare { ¢
National Air and Space Museum

S. Paut JoHnston, Director

enn AUTHORIZING CONSTRUCTION of the new Air and Space

Museum building on the Mall, which had been before the Congress
since early 1964, was signed into law on July 19, 1966, by President
Johnson. The bill, as passed and approved, changed the name of the
Museum officially to the National Air and Space Museum and, among
other provisions, expanded the membership of the Museum’s Advisory
Board to include additional Federal and Defense Agencies dealing
with aerospace activities.

Although funds for construction of the Museum are not in immediate
prospect, within the limits of available funds and manpower progress
has been made in acquiring, preserving, and cataloging historically
important artifacts for study and display, and in acquiring documentary
material for use by historians and researchers in the Museum’s growing
Historical Research Center.

NASA Artifacts Program

In March 1967 a joint agreement was signed between the Smith-
sonian Institution and the National Aeronautics and Space Adminis-
tration, whereby all historically important air and space artifacts
developed by NASA will be transferred to the Air and Space Museum
after their technical evaluation is completed. The essence of the agree-
ment is contained in the following two paragraphs from the document:

283
284 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967

NASA will transfer to, and the Smithsonian will accept as rapidly as
reasonably possible, such artifacts currently under NASA control and
which will become available in the future, after technical utility to NASA
or other government agencies has been exhausted and post-flight examina-
tion has been effected.

The National Air and Space Museum, administered by the Smithsonian,
will accept responsibility for the custody, protection, preservation, and
display of such artifacts, in the Museum and upon loan to NASA Head-
quarters, NASA Field Centers, other Federal agencies, museums, and
other appropriate organizations.

Since no budgetary provision for such a program had been made
for fiscal year 1968, NASA agreed to allocate funds to enable the Smith-
sonian to begin its work under this agreement at the earliest possible
date. Assistant director Frederick C. Durant III, is the principal
investigator under the contract. Coordinating closely with him is
James A. Mahoney, assistant director for exhibits, who will be responsi-
ble for the physical custody, preservation, restoration, and display of
the specimens.

The NASA Artifacts Program will significantly increase the amount
of air and space artifacts available for NASM loan programs in which
specimens are loaned to outside museums and institutions, federal and
private, for exhibition and for study.

NASM specimens are now on loan to the Goddard Museum at
Roswell, New Mexico, the Air Force Museum at Dayton, the Naval
Air Museum at Pensacola, the Naval Engineering Center at Philadel-
phia, and a number of private organizations. Early in the year the
Alan Shepard Mercury Spacecraft (Freedom 7) was shipped to
Montreal, where it was placed on exhibit in the U.S. Pavilion at
EXPO: 67-

Historical Research Center

The primary objective of the NASM Historical Research Center is
to collect, compile, and make available to researchers and historians
data relating to aerospace science and technology. Thus, the search
for material which will assist in the recognition of the true deter-
minants and controls in these areas is given the highest priority.
Present holdings of the Center include over 20,000 bound books and
periodicals, with over 10,000 biographical files of individuals; technical
data on some 500,000 feet of microfilm; over 2,000 rolls of original
drawings; and nearly 100 oral-history tape recordings of individual
interviews; some 15,000 negatives (with indexed, searched prints) and
over a half-million photographs in albums and subject files; plus about
200 tons of historical and technical documentation, of which only
about a third has been sorted and indexed.
NATIONAL AIR AND SPACE MUSEUM 285

Construction of National Air and Space Museum was authorized by Congress
July 19, 1966. This architect’s model illustrates the Mall front of the building.
Vast windows allow aircraft to be seen from the outside. Offices are on top floor.

On July 1, 1966, E. W. Robischon joined the then existing staff of
two persons as deputy assistant director for education and information.
In October 1966 an archivist was added, and in February 1967, a
research assistant. During summers this staff was supplemented by
several summer student employees and eight Neighborhood Youth
Corps aides. Also, volunteers from the American Aviation Historical
Society donated over 300 man-hours of sorting and filing time during
the year. As a result of this extra help, visible progress has been made
toward the development of a more effective operation.

The Center is thus in an improved position to provide invaluable
day-to-day service to scholars of aerospace history and technology. As
a result, in addition to the usual aid given the curatorial and exhibits
staff authenticating and restoring artifacts, it serviced over 2,000
requests from scholars and historians in connection with the writing
of theses, monographs, books, magazine articles, and film scripts.

Research

Although seriously undermanned and largely preoccupied with the
technical supervision of the national air and spacecraft collections,
members of the aeronautics and astronautics departments have en-
gaged in a significant amount of research, and have participated in
the work of related historical and scientific societies. Frederick C. Durant
III continued his studies in depth on the developments of the very
early (19th century) military rockets, as well as an investigation of the
origins of regeneratively cooled rocket motors (liquid cooled) from all
286 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967

countries of the world. He is presenting a paper at the History Sym-
posium at the Belgrade meeting of the International Astronautical
Federation in fall 1967. He is also serving a second year as chairman of
the History Committee of the American Institute of Aeronautics and
Astronautics.

Senior historian Paul Garber personally presented some 83 lectures
on various aspects of air and space history to audiences all over the
United States. It is estimated that over 11,000 persons attended these
lectures. In addition, Garber made a number of radio and television
broadcasts, as well as tape recordings which were broadcast on Voice
of America and Armed Services Radio all over the world. To a very
large number of historical writers and researchers, he rendered assistance
through personal interview or correspondence. He helped organize and
train the NASM docent group, and at least once a week throughout
the year conducted tours for grade- and high-school classes and other
organizations.

Louis Casey, curator of aircraft, continued his comprehensive study
of the 40-year development of Curtiss Aircraft. He is an active member
of the Experimental Aircraft Association, a Director of the American
Aviation Historical Society, and is Chairman of the Aviation Sub-
committee of the Transportation Division of the International Com-
mittee of Museums (ICOM). In fall 1966 he attended the ICOM
meetings in Europe, and assisted in organizing several historical
seminars in the United States.

Robert Meyer, curator of aircraft propulsion, completed and sub-
mitted to the Smithsonian Institution Press the manuscript of his book
on ‘‘Professor Langley’s Magnificent Aero-Engine of 1903.” He also
concluded technical review of a comprehensive manuscript by Philip S.
Dickey, Lieutenant Colonel USAF (Ret.), on the development of the
World War I Liberty engine.

The Collections

The department of exhibits, established last year, has used its com-
bined facilities and manpower to support the various exhibition,
preservation, and restoration programs of the NASM. Under the
direction of assistant director James A. Mahoney, the department has
made substantial gains in the reorganization of a great backlog of
NASM specimens, accumulated over the years, and in developing new |
facilities.

The preservation and restoration division at Silver Hill has completed
the first phase of a five-year program that involves the movement of
almost all full-size specimens to more orderly preplanned storage

NATIONAL AIR AND SPACE MUSEUM 287

locations. Specimens in outdoor storage are being protected against
weather as time and manpower permit.

Inventory of the aero engine collection, under curatorial supervision
of Robert Meyer, has been completed.

The most significant aircraft are being located in the new Building 20,
and an area has been established for curatorial research in this building.
A great deal of work remains, however, in the sorting out and cataloging
of large collections of instruments and ancillary equipment.

Construction of Building 21, scheduled to be completed in fall 1967,
should provide much needed space for the large number of astro-
nautical specimens beginning to flow into the NASM as a result of the
NASA Artifacts Program.

The miscellaneous collections division, located at 24th Street, NW.,
now has most of the model collection packaged, indexed, and ware-
housed in an orderly manner. With the assistance of summer help,
an initial sorting of the NASM collections of artwork was completed.
Much time and work will still be required to complete these programs
and to organize the large collection of memorabilia.

The visual presentation division moved into quarters at the 24th
Street facility and is equipping an exhibits production shop for operation
early in 1968.

The office of quality control conducted a number of field surveys as
a means of locating and evaluating private facilities capable of per-
forming specimen restorations of museum quality for future NASM
programs.

EXHIBITS AND PRESENTATIONS

A museum function of great interest to the aerospace community
was the presentation, by the National Aeronautic Association, of the
1965 Robert J. Collier Award to James E. Webb and the late Dr. Hugh
L. Dryden on October 19, 1966. Due to a re-scheduling of presentation
dates, the 1966 Collier Award was presented to James McDonnell
of the McDonnell Aircraft Corporation on May 24, 1967. On each
occasion Vice President Hubert H. Humphrey presented this, the
most highly respected award in the aerospace field.

The coveted Langley Medal, awarded by the Smithsonian Institu-
tion to only 12 individuals since it was established in 1908, was presented
by Secretary Ripley on June 6 to Wernher von Braun of NASA for
his outstanding contributions to the science of rocketry and space
exploration.

Commemorative ceremonies were held at the National Air and
Space Museum on February 2, 1967, to honor the 40th anniversary of
288 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967

the U.S. Army Air Corps Pan-American Good-Will Flight of 1926-

1927, and on May 21, 1967, to honor the 40th anniversary of the flight

of the Spirit of St. Lous.
The following special exhibits were opened as part of the museum’s

rotating exhibits program:

The NASA exhibition ‘Challenge of Space,” which was later shown
at the Paris Air Show of 1967;

A full-size USAF “Titan” missile, into which the public entered to
view related, explanatory exhibits, displayed on the Mall;

A NASA exhibit of recent photographs of the moon by the Lunar
Orbiter Satellite;

An exhibit by the- U.S. Air Force ‘‘Vietnam Operations’’; and

A full-scale model of the Apollo Command Module, by NASA, showing
complete instrumentation and a crew of 3 astronauts.

In addition to the rotating exhibits program, several showings were
made in the newly refurbished Aerospace Art Galleries, including:

Astronautical abstracts in enamels by John F. Puskas;

Astronautical abstracts by J. Kassanicky De Kassay;

Illustrations depicting space travel by Chesley Bonestell, which were
painted in the 1950s for reproduction in Colliers and in several books
by Willy Ley and by Wernher von Braun; and

An exhibit of watercolors entitled ‘“‘Painting Aviation History” by
Colonel John T. McCoy, Jr., USAF (Ret.) which included a special
group covering the development of aircraft for Pan American
World Airways.

Also exhibited were several paintings by Norman Rockwell on space

exploration, three illustrations on astronautical subjects donated by

the 3M Company and a kinetic art painting donated by the artist,

Frank J. Malina.

Formal presentations were held to acknowledge the receipt of
several significant specimens; these included:

A full-size, completely instrumented nose section of a DC-7 aircraft,
by C. R. Smith, chairman of the board of American Airlines;

The original, hand-illuminated check presented to Charles A. Lindbergh
for the transatlantic flight in the ‘‘Spirit of St. Louis,’’ by Raymond
and Jean B. Orteig;

Early liquid-propellant rocket motors, from Thiokol Chemical Corpora-
tion, presented by Dr. Harold Ritchey, President of Thiokol;

19th-century Congreve and Hale rockets, from the Royal Artillery
of London, presented by Major General P. J. Glover, Director;

Swedish Air Force SAAB J—29 fighter aircraft, by Swedish Ambassador
Hubert W. de Besche and Lt. General L. Thunberg and Colonel
Hale rocket made in 1863 is presented
to Director S. Paul Johnston by Director
of Great Britain’s Royal Artillery, Major
General P. J. Glover, C.B., O.B.E.
Rocket in the foreground was constructed
in 1815 by Sir William Congreve. Donat-
ed by the Royal Artillery Institution,
both are rare examples of 19th-century
rocket technology.

Collier Trophy Awards were presented
by Vice President Hubert H. Humphrey.
Upper: 1965 Award (from left) the
Vice-President; Edward C. Sweeney,
then President of the National Aeronau-
tic Association; Secretary Ripley; Mrs.
Hugh L. Dryden, representing her late
husband, former Deputy Administrator,
National Aeronautics and Space Admin-
istration; and the co-recipient, NASA
Administrator James E. Webb. Lower:
1966 Award (from left) NAA President
James F. Nields, Secretary Ripley, the
Vice President, and recipient James S.
McDonnell.

Model of the ‘‘14-bis” airplane in which
Alberto Santos-Dumont made the first
flight in Europe, September 13, 1906,
is examined by Smithsonian Regent
Clinton P. Anderson, Ambassador Vasco
Lietao da Cuna of Brazil, and Mrs.
Anesia Pinheiro Machado, who pre-
sented the model and other Santos-
Dumont memorabilia to the Museum.

290 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967

Lundstrom of the Swedish Air Force, representing the Government

of Sweden;

Full-scale model of a ‘‘Nimbus” weather satellite, by Richard E.
Roberts, representing the General Electric Company; and

Historic memorabilia, including scale models of early designs of the
aeronautical pioneer Alberto Santos-Dumont, Brazilian pioneer in
Aeronautics, presented by Mrs. Anesia Pinheiro Machado, and
accepted by Smithsonian Regent Clinton E. Anderson.

ACCESSIONS

Additions to the collections received and recorded during the year
totaled 215 specimens in 38 separate accessions, as listed below. Those
from Government departments are entered as transfers unless other-
wise indicated; others were received as gifts or loans.

AEROJET GENERAL Corp.: Reproduction, \4-scale, of the NERVA nuclear rocket
engine system test device (NASM 1790).

Arr Force, U.S.: Ranger L-440-7, World War II engine; Wright R-3350-57 AM,
World War II engine built by Dodge (NASM 1699). Two atomic bombs, Fat
Man (Nagasaki type) and Little Boy (Hiroshima type) and twenty-three cases
of accessories (NASM 1775).

ALBISSER, RoBERT and Rocer, and Scott, WiLi1AM J.: Henri L. Albisser engine of
1909, 4-cylinder static air-cooled radial of 45 hp. (NASM 1703).

Benpix AviATION Corp.: Collection of 15 instruments (NASM 1710).

BENNETT, Mrs. Kerry B.: Pre-planning chart used prior to NC-4 flight, course
and position plotter used on the flight (NASM 1753).

BuEscHEL, Howarp A.: East German “Jena”? flying model aero engine (cutaway)
circa 1960 (NASM 1783). American Atwood “Triumph” flying model aero
engine, circa 1950 (NASM 1784).

CoMMERCE, DEPARTMENT OF, Bureau of Standards: Model of Johns multiplane (1919-
1920) (NASM 1786).

De Houtruutet, Witty Coprens: World War I commemorative medal (NASM
1777).

Detta Air.inEs, Inc.: Model of Douglas DC-9 (NASM 1725).

Dopp, L. E.: World War I altimeter (Tycos) and early magnetic compass
(NASM 1776).

EASTERN AIRLINES: Models of DC-9 and Boeing 727 (NASM 1779).

Fiuipri, BERNARD P.: Collection of Lindbergh memorabilia (NASM 1711).

Fox, Davip: 75 antique spark plugs of 8 different types (NASM 1792).

FRANKLIN INstiruTE: Lockheed Vega aircraft used by Amelia Earhart (NASM
1739).

Hype, Ken: Le Blond 60 hp. 1928 engine, widely used in private airplanes (NASM
1788). Brownback “Tiger” 90-hp. engine of 1930, last of the Anzanis (NASM
1789).

Justice, DEPARTMENT OF: Poster of Stevens parachute (NASM 1737).

Kirk, Preston: Lawrance, World War I engine (NASM 1717).

LockHEED ArrcRAFT Co.: Painting of Tony Le Vier; model of Lockheed F-104
(NASM 1740). |

NATIONAL AIR AND SPACE MUSEUM

291

MeDrvitt, Lr. Cot. JAMes, and Wuire, Lr. Cot. Epwarp H.: American flag,
18’’ x 24’’ carried on board Gemini 4 spacecraft (NASM 1720).

MILLER, WARREN C.: Gibson Propeller of 1911 (NASM 1782).

NATIONAL AERONAUTICS AND SPACE ADMINISTRATION, Manned Spacecraft Center,
Houston, Texas: Items worn by Col. James McDivitt on Gemini IV flight (NASM
1791). Mercury spacecraft Freedom 7 and Astronaut Shepard’s space suit and
helmet (NASM 1793). Mercury spacecraft Friendship 7 and Astronaut Glenn’s
memorabilia (NASM 1794). Spacecraft Gemini IV, space suit worn by Astronaut
White, maneuvering device, umbilical tether and chest pack (NASM 1795).
Tiros satellite (prototype) (NASM !796). Syncom satellite (NASM 1797). Relay
satellite (NASM 1798). Echo satellite (NASM 1799).

Navy, U.S.: British De Havilland H-1 ‘‘Goblin” turbojet cutaway (circa 1945)

(NASM 1686).

OrteEIc, JEAN D. and Raymonp: Orteig check to Lindbergh for New York to

Paris flight, 1927 (NASM 1781).

Reapers DiceEst: Portrait in watercolor of E. T. Allen (NASM 1780).
ScuirraA, Capt. WALTER M., Jr.: Harmonica played by donor on board flight of

Gemini VI (NASM 1778).

Stutz, W. L.: Flight suit used by W. L. Stultz, pilot of 1928 flight to Europe with

Amelia Earhart (NASM 1741).

SUNDERLAND, CLybE: Early model K-5 aerial camera (NASM 1738).
SwepisH Arr Force: SAAB J-29 aircraft, single-seat fighter, with U.N. markings

(Katanga Operation) (NASM 1787).

Wa ker, L. L.: Lawrance World War I engine SC-40172 (NASM 1718).

The cooperation of the following persons and organizations in pro-
viding reference materials for the Museum’s Historical Flight Research
Center is sincerely appreciated and gratefully acknowledged:

Aero West Magazine

Aircraft Owners and Pilots Association

A. J. Air Tankers, Inc.

Albree, G. Norman

Alderman, K. J.

All Women Transcontinental Air Races

Andrews, Hal

American Institute for Aeronautics and
Astronautics

American Institute of Aeronautics and
Astronautics and Curtiss A-1 Club

Bell Aerosystems Company

Bennett, Mrs. Keith B.

Bergling, Joseph C.

Boeing Company

Byoir (Carl) and Associates

Caldwell, Frank W.

Coast Guard, U.S.

Connecticut Aeronautical Historical
Association

Cranham, R. W.

Crow, Lady Alwyn D.

Defense Documentation Center, U.S.

Dial, H.

Durant, F. C., III

Fairchild Hiller Corporation

Fernandez, Peter

Ford Instrument Company

Furnish, Joseph H.

Gay, Errol J.

Grocock, Joseph F.

Gilfert, Mrs. D.

Grumman Aircraft Engineering Cor-
poration

Harrington, Mrs. Cora B.

Harmel, Mrs. Falk

Hastings, Russell

Hausler, Walt

Hickey, John E.

Hirsch, R. S.

Houghland, Vern

Ide, Mrs. John J.

Illinois, Elgin Area Historical Society

Johnston, S. Paul
292

Juptner, Joseph P.

Kinney, James L.

Krickel, John H.

Lane, Mrs. Orley

Library of Congress, U.S.

Lockheed Aircraft Company

Lockheed-Georgia

Lundahl, Eric

McDonnell Aircraft Corporation

Madison, Donald T.

Marshall, T. W.

Martin Company

Martin, W. E.

Manly, Miss Trammel

Morehouse, Harold

Mussey, Robert

National Aeronautics and Space Admin-
istration, U.S.

National Archives, U.S.

National Aviation Museum of Canada

Naval Aviation Safety Center, U.S.

Naval Institute, U.S.

Navy, U.S.

Newcomb, Charles J.

Nevin, Robert S.

Page, George A., Jr.

Patent Office, U.S.

SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967

Pratt and Whitney Aircraft Division

Ramsey, De Witt C., estate of, through
Paul E. Garber, trustee

Rowe, Geoffrey

Royal Air Force Staff, British Embassy

Rules Service Company

San Mateo County (California) Histori-
cal Association

Schory, Carl F.

Shaffer, Walter J.

Sievers, Harry

Steiner, Morton

Stevison, Vincent E.

Towle, Austin C.

Towle, Tom

Trepagnier, Mrs. Henry L.

Truox, R. C.

United Aircraft Corporation

Villard, Honorable Henry S.

Vye, Whit

Wanderley, Nelson

Weeks, E. D.

Weisgerber, F. Rankin

Wiggin, Mrs. Mabel Rodgers

Williams, John M.

Wood, Donald S.

World Book Encyclopedia

In Memoriam

Kenneth E. Newland, curator of aeronautical materiel, died on
April 5, 1967, after a prolonged illness. He had joined the staff of the
National Air Museum in 1959, and had specialized in the collection
and study of aircraft instruments, ancillary systems, and safety and
life-support equipment and their application to modern aircraft.
Prior to joining the museum staff, he had taught aeronautics at Stephens
College, Columbia, Missouri. He held a master’s degree in education

from Ohio State University.
National Armed Forces Museum
Advisory Board

Colonel JoHN H. MAGRUDER 111, USMC, Director

ee PROGRESS WAs made toward acquiring a site for the
proposed National Armed Forces Museum Park. On December 14,
1966, the Prince Georges County Planning Board and the Maryland-
National Capital Park and Planning Commission approved the pro-
posed site in the Fort Foote area of Prince Georges County, Maryland,
and on January 12, 1967, the National Capital Planning Commission
endorsed the recommended boundaries. In response to the recom-
mendation of the Board of Regents, January 25, 1967, that legislative
authority be sought for acquiring the site, the Advisory Board staff,
working with the Office of the General Counsel, prepared the proposed
legislation for submission to the first session of the 90th Congress. As
the fiscal year closed, the draft legislation was undergoing review by
Federal agencies concerned.

The National Armed Forces Museum Advisory Board has directed
its attention so far primarily to assembling material which, if not ac-
quired immediately, would not be available in the future. In most
instances, these are one-of-a-kind items deemed necessary to the scope
of the Museum’s collections—specimens of obsolete matériel, proto-
types, and similar items that otherwise would be disposed of by the
Department of Defense or other holding agencies.

During the year the National Armed Forces Museum Advisory Board
staff continued to negotiate with the Armed Forces, the General Serv-
ices Administration and other agencies for objects appropriate to the

293
294 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967

Destruction of the Monitor Tecumseh in Mobile Bay, August 5,
1864, as depicted by Harpers Weekly (September 10, 1854).
Tecumseh, raised intact, would provide a unique opportunity
to examine in detail a United States man-of-war as she ap-
peared 103 years ago in battle-ready condition. Now lying on
the bottom of Mobile Bay, she sank within a minute of
striking a Confederate mine, carrying with her most of her

crew.

The United States Testing Machine, built in 1879 and recently
acquired by the Smithsonian, could apply and measure with

extreme accuracy tensile and compressive forces ranging from
1 to 800,000 pounds.
NATIONAL ARMED FORCES MUSEUM ADVISORY BOARD 295

proposed National Armed Forces Museum Park. As a result, a number
of items were either acquired by the Smithsonian, or set aside for
eventual transfer, that will have great meaning in exhibits interpreting
Armed Forces contributions to American society and culture.

Acquired from the Department of the Navy, for instance, was the
bathyscaphe Trieste I, which in 1960 carried Jacques Piccard and
Lieutenant Don Walsh, USN, seven miles down to the bottom of the
Challenger Deep. Trieste I not only gathered important oceanographic
and marine-biological data, but also provided valuable lessons for the
design of more sophisticated submersible exploration vessels.

From the Department of the Army came the United States Testing
Machine, a massive instrument devised by the noted engineer A. H.
Emery and completed at Watertown Arsenal, Massachusetts, in 1879
to provide precise knowledge of the tensile strength and compressibility
of metals and other materials. Operated by Army Ordnance and made
available to American industries and engineers as well as to Govern-
ment agencies, the Testing Machine was for many years unique in its
versatility, range, and extreme accuracy.

In January 1967 the Advisory Board staff located and identified the
remains of the USS Tecumseh on the bottom of Mobile Bay, Alabama,
where she was sunk in battle on August 5, 1864. The historic vessel,
one of the Ericsson-type monitors, lies almost totally buried under sand
and mud some 300 yards off Fort Morgan. Dredging operations are

| Ban: 14
hi iN

. (Ws

296 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967

scheduled for July 1967 to clear the vessel so that divers can make a
detailed inspection of the hull and determine the feasibility of raising
her for exhibition in the proposed National Armed Forces Museum
Park.

On the evening of April 29, 1967, before a large audience gathered
on the Mall, the Army ‘Old Guard” Fife and Drum Corps, the
Marine Band, and the Air Force Pipe Band joined the Colonial
Williamsburg Fifes and Drums in a dramatic torchlight Tattoo,
arranged and directed by Colonel Magruder and staff. It is hoped
that a National Military Tattoo on the Mall will become an annual
event.
Freer Gallery of Art

Joun A. Pope, Director

T= FREER GALLERY OF ART continues to function as a center for
research in the civilizations of Asia and, at the same time, it makes
significant additions, whenever these become available, to the collec-
tions of Oriental art. The two functions are closely interrelated, and
the research projects on which various members of the staff are engaged
are primarily concerned with the cultural origins of the objects in the
collection. To broaden the background of these projects, staff members
travel to museums in this country, as well as in Europe and Asia, to
see collections and study related material and to discuss problems of
mutual interest with colleagues working on similar projects. Under
established scholarship programs, students of Oriental art are en-
couraged and given every facility to work with objects in the collection.

Gifts and Grants

The Freer Gallery of Art received a number of grants during the
year. Among these was a grant from the Kevorkian Foundation for
the publication of Indian Sculptures in the Freer Gallery of Art and for the
purchase of books on Near Eastern art for the library. Grants from
the Felix and Helen Juda Foundation provided for the purchase of
the final volumes of Ukiyoe in the Hiraki Collection, and for travel
assistance for the technical laboratory. The Ellen Bayard Weedon
Foundation continued its generous assistance to the library. Another
gift was received from H. P. Kraus.

Curatorial Activities

Director John A. Pope, with Rutherford J. Gettens and other
scholars, continued extensive research on the archaic Chinese bronzes
in the collection. Their findings, including many pieces never before

297
298 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967

published, will appear in a comprehensive catalog that greatly expands
and revises the previous Descriptive and Illustrative Catalogue of Chinese
Bronzes Acquired during the Administration of John Ellerton Lodge, by
Archibald Wenley and John A. Pope, published in 1946. Much of
this research was carried out in conjunction with the technical labo-
ratory. During an extended journey abroad, Pope carried on research
in the fields of Chinese and Japanese ceramics in Europe, the Near
East, India, Taiwan, and Japan. In connection with his studies of the
extensive ceramic collection of the Gallery, this travel included visits
to kiln sites and to museums, private collections, and living potters.

His lectures during the year included “Introduction to the Freer
Gallery of Art,” at the National Palace Museum, Taipei, Taiwan;
“Freer Gallery of Art,” at the Freer Gallery of Art for Radcliffe
alumnae; and ‘‘Chinese Art in the Collection of the King of Sweden,”
at the M. H. De Young Memorial Museum, San Francisco.

Assistant Director Harold P. Stern’s research was principally cen-
tered on the Japanese paintings of the Ukiyoe and Yamatoe schools.
Yamatoe paintings dating from the 11th century onward and produced
in a purely Japanese style are the forerunners of the Ukiyoe, the so-
called ‘“‘paintings of the floating world.’ The Gallery holdings in this
latter school are among the most extensive in the world. Both schools
represent genre, and knowledge of them is essential to an understand-
ing of life in late-16th-century through 19th-century Japan. An attempt
is being made to identify artists and develop standards for evaluating
paintings of both these schools. Works in private collections and public
institutions have been studied. Stern chaired and organized the section
on Japanese painting at the symposium on the Brundage Collection
held in San Francisco August 28 through September 4. In March
1967 he was asked to consult with the University of California, Los
Angeles, regarding the Japanese prints in their collection, and he is
organizing a major exhibition based on this collection. He also was
appointed as a member of the Expert Committee of UNESCO for
the Preparation of an Exhibition and an Album on the Mutual In-
fluence of Japanese and Western Arts, and he attended and chaired
two of the related sessions at UNESCO House, Paris, June 26 through
June 30, 1967.

The head curator of Near Eastern art, Richard Ettinghausen, con-
tinued research in Near Eastern studies, with emphasis on recent ac-
cessions and special attention given the two silver heads (66.23 Persian,
Sasanian, mid-6th century, and 66.24 Persian, Parthian, Ist century
B.C.-lst century A.D.). In February 1967 Dr. Ettinghausen retired
to accept a teaching position at New York University.
FREER GALLERY OF ART 299

Upon invitation of the Government of Iran, Mr. Ettinghausen
attended the opening of the new Pahlavi Library in Teheran and a
subsequent Congress of Iranologists from August 31 to September 8,
1966. To commemorate the occasion, a set of Ars Orientalis was pre-
sented to the new National Library of Iran.

Rutherford J. Gettens, head curator of the Freer Gallery technical
laboratory, continued his study of Chinese ceremonial bronzes in the
Freer Gallery, a 3-volume catalog of which is in preparation. All
available scientific techniques have been used in this study—micros-
copy, metalography, spectrographic and wet-chemical analysis, anal-
ysis by X-ray diffraction, ultraviolet-light study and, in some cases,
radiographic study. Research on Japanese pigments continued, as did
the preparation of a handbook for identification of painting materials.
Research also continued on two Chinese bronze weapons with meteor-
itic iron blades. Information was collected from worldwide sources on
the care and treatment of out-of-doors bronze sculpture.

William Trousdale, associate curator of Chinese art, completed his
dissertation, ““The Long Sword and Scabbard Slide in Asia,’ and was
awarded his doctorate in the history of art from the University of Michi-
gan on April 29, 1967. He continued his research on Chinese jade and
Chinese bronze weapons, to be used toward completion of a catalog of
this material in the collection.

From April through June 1966, he participated as assistant director
in the University of Michigan Expedition to Qasr al-Hayr al-Sharq),
Syria. This was the second season of continuing excavations at this
early Islamic site. In July 1966, he conducted a preliminary archeolog-
ical survey in the lower Helmand River valley and Sistan regions of
southern Afghanistan.

For the Smithsonian Associates he presented a series of eight lectures
on “Chinese Art” in the Freer Gallery auditorium. He also lectured
on “The Archeological Exploration of Afghanistan,” at Columbia
University; and on “Archeological Reconnaissance of Sistan in Iran
and Afghanistan,” at the Freer Gallery of Art for the Washington
Society of the Archaeological Institute of America.

Assistant conservator W. Thomas Chase joined the technical labora-
tory staff in September 1966. He completed his thesis, ‘Chinese
Belt-Hooks in the Freer Gallery of Art,” and received from New York
University the Master of Arts degree in February 1967, along with a
“Conservation of Works of Art’ certificate.

He assisted in the preparation of the manuscript for the forthcoming
publication on Chinese ceremonial bronzes, and he researched aspects
of fabrication techniques of ceremonial vessels, notably inscriptions
and false patina.
300 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967

In March 1967, Ben B. Johnson completed a contract assignment as
restorer, and in April was appointed consultant to the technical
laboratory.

Donald Kelman (The Conservation Center of New York University)
and Yoshiaki Shimizu (University of Kansas) reported in June for
duty as summer research assistants. _

In May, Robert Moes completed his Freer Fellowship and accepted
a teaching position at the University of Hawaii.

Mrs. Ellen Johnson Laing completed her work at the Gallery in
June on her Hackney Scholarship and accepted a teaching assignment
at Wayne State University, Detroit, Michigan. She received her
doctorate in April from the University of Michigan.

In June, Miss Vicki F. Weinstein completed her work at the Freer
Gallery on a Hackney Scholarship.

The Collections

Among the new acquisitions were a number of pieces of major
importance. In Japanese art, there was a dry-lacquer sculpture of a
Bodhisattva dating from the late 8th century (66.34); an ink painting
of orchids and rocks by Bompo, 1344—-ca. 1420 (67.10); and a unique
ten-fold screen representing a horse race along the Kamo River, early
17th century (66.35). In Chinese art, a perfect example of molded
Ting ware, Sung dynasty, was added (66.30). In Near Eastern art, a
rare Aghkand-ware bowl with a representation of a rabbit, 12th-13th
century, was purchased (67.4).

Other purchases consisted of :

BRONZE

Japanese, Kamakura, ca. 14th century; mirror with cranes, mandarin
oranges and pine tree; tortoise-shaped knob. (67.11)

LACQUER

Japanese, Momoyama, late 16th century, Negoro; pitcher, red, foliate
lid. (67.5)

Japanese, Namboku Cho, 14th century, Kamakurabori, incense box.
(67.9)

Japanese, Kamakura; basin, three-legged; Negoro, with natural wood
sides. (67.12)

Japanese painting, Muromachi-Suiboku school, by
Gyokuen Bompo (1344—ca. 1420). (67.10)
301

FREER GALLERY OF ART

302 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967

PAINTING

Indian, Rajput, 16th century, Mewar; episodes from the Bhagavata
Purana, showing two scenes in a palace surrounded by water. San-
skrit text on the back. (66.31)

Indian, Rajput, 16th century, Mewar; episodes from the Bhagavata
Purana, showing worshippers before Krishna, seated in front of a
pavilion. Sanskrit text on back. (66.32)

Indian, Rajput, Pahari, Kangra school, ca. 1830. The many-eyed
Mahadeva (Siva) with Parvati holding the elephant-god Ganesa
and Karttikeya, the warrior god. (66.33)

Persian, Herat school, ca. 1525; Yusuf at the party of Potiphar’s
wife Zuleika; multicolor, numerous figures. (67.6)

Persian, Isfahan school, early 17th century; old man in landscape;
ink with slight touch of color. (67.7)

Persian, Herat school, A.D. 1513 (919 H.); two lovers with two attend-
ants; multicolor. (67.8)

POTTERY

Chinese, Sung, Ju-type celadon; bowl, five-lobed with slightly flaring
lip; low square-cut foot; fine-grained grayish buff stoneware; thick
lustrous gray-green with brownish areas; uneven crackle. (67.1)

Japanese, Namboku Cho-Ashikaga, Tamba; large jar with wide
shoulder and flaring lip; coarse, grey stoneware, fired glossy red on
surface; glossy with crackle dripping unevenly over surface. (66.28)

Japanese, Edo, late 17th-early 18th century; Nabeshima ware;
round dish on high foot; fine white porcelain; camellia blossom and
scrolling leaves. (66.29)

Persian, Kashan, early 13th century; bowl on ring foot; black and blue
foliate design under green glaze on inside; inscription in four panels;
series of leafy stems on outside; foot partially glazed. Iridescence in
interior. (67.2)

Persian, Rayy, late 12th century; pitcher; one-handled; black champ-
levé sgraffito under green glaze. (67.3)

Care of the works of art was shared by several of the staff members.
The technical laboratory examined, cleaned, and/or repaired, as
necessary, a total of 26 objects. In addition, 47 objects under considera-
tion for purchase were examined ; 29 objects were examined or repaired
for other museums and individuals. Restorer Ben B. Johnson examined,
repaired, and cleaned 16 oil paintings. Mr. Takashi Sugiura, with the
help of Mr. Makoto Souta and Mrs. Kumi Kinoshita, cleaned, re-
touched, and remounted a total of 21 Chinese and Japanese paintings.
FREER GALLERY OF ART 303

Top: Persian Aghkand-ware bowl, 12th-13th
century (67.4). Middle: Japanese standing
figure of the Bhodisattva Kamon, Tempyo, ca.
790, dry lacquer, with stand (66.34). Bottom:
Japanese pitcher, Momoyama period, late
16th century (67.5).

304 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967

Illustrator Frank A. Haentschke rematted 53 Persian, Turkish, and
Indian paintings.

A total of 270 exhibition changes was made by museum specialist
Martin Amt: American, 4; Chinese, 190; Japanese, 51; and Near
Eastern, 25. All the necessary equipment for these changes was pro-
vided by the cabinet shop under the direction of the building super-
intendent, Russell C. Mielke, who has also maintained the building
in its usual immaculate and sound condition.

Library

During the year, 366 books were incorporated by purchase, ex-
change, and gift into the library collection. The library facilities were
utilized by the staff and a total of 514 university students and other
scholars doing reference work and casual visitors requiring less scholarly
material on the objects displayed in the galleries. To the study files
were added 2,037 photographs, and the slide collection was increased
by 2,939:

Through the generosity of the Weedon Foundation and the Kevor-
kian Foundation, the library was able to acquire additional and valuable
books. Among the books purchased through the Weedon fund were:

Shang-Hai Po-Wu-Kuan Ts‘ang Li-Tai Fa-Shu Hsiian-Chi. Shanghai,

1964.

Chung-Kuo Li-Tat Ming-Hua Chi. Peking, 1965.

Sean Hirin. Tokyo, 1966.

Books purchased through the Kevorkian Foundation included:

Old Oriental Carpets. Vienna, 1926-1929.

Art of India (Indo Bijutsu). Tokyo, 1965.

Indian Jewelry. London, 1906-1909.

Public Services

The Gallery was open to the public from 9:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.
daily except on Christmas. The total number of visitors to come in
during the year was 212,920. The highest monthly attendance, in
August, was 36,059. A total of 2,830 visitors came to the Gallery office
for such purposes as consulting with staff members, submitting objects
for examination, studying in the library, and viewing objects in storage.
In all, 13,140 objects and 2,313 photographs were examined and 1,026
Oriental language inscriptions were translated for outside individuals
and institutions, and 257 persons were shown objects in storage. By
request, 33 groups, totaling 573 persons, met in the exhibition galleries
for docent service by staff members; and four groups, totaling 53
FREER GALLERY OF ART 305

persons, were given docent service in the storage areas. Among the

visitors were 195 distinguished foreign scholars or persons holding

official positions in their own countries who came here to study museum
administration and practices.

The fourteenth annual series of illustrated lectures, held in the
auditorium, included:

“Recent Discoveries in Mainland China,” Dr. Bo Gyllensvard,
Ostasiatiska Museet of Stockholm, Sweden (September 12, 1966)-

“Portraits of the Priest Ikkyi,’’ Professor Donald Keene, Columbia
University (October 18, 1966).

“Excavations in Assyria, Nimrud and Its Remains,”’ Professor Max E.
L. Mallowan, formerly at the University of London (November 1,
1966).

“Chinese Tomb Figurines,” Dr. Jan Fontein, Boston Museum of Fine
Arts (January 10, 1967).

“Japanese Literati Painting,’ Professor Calvin L. French, University
of Michigan (February 14, 1967).

“Chin Nung (1687-1764) and the Eccentric View,” Professor Peter
Swann, Royal Ontario Museum, Canada (March 14, 1967).

“The Individual in Late Egyptian Portraiture after 700 B.C.,” Dr.
Bernard V. Bothmer, The Brooklyn Museum (April 11, 1967).

The auditorium was used by 14 outside organizations for 48 meetings.
A total of 6,217 individuals attended functions in the auditorium.

The photographic laboratory, under the supervision of Raymond
Schwartz, processed a total of 29,102 items including negatives, photo-
graphs, color slides, color-sheet films, polaroid prints, and album and
registration prints. This workload amounted to an increase of 100
percent over last year.

The sales desk sold 117,037 items consisting of 5,012 publications and
112,025 reproductions (including postcards, slides, photographs, prints,
and reproductions in the round).

Publications

‘Paintings, Pastels, Drawings, Prints, and Copper Plates by and
Attributed to American and European Artists, together with a List of
Original Whistleriana, in the Freer Gallery of Art,’’ by the late Burns
A. Stubbs (Freer Gallery of Art Occasional Papers, vol. 1, no. 2, Ist edition
1948; 2nd edition 1967) was revised and reprinted. Final work was
completed on the preparation of volume 6 of Ars Orientalis, and con-
siderable time was given to the preparation of the first two volumes
of The Freer Chinese Bronzes, now in publication.
306 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967

Publications by staff members were:

PopE, JOHN ALEXANDER. Some Ming porcelains in the National
Palace Museum. National Palace Museum Quarterly, Taipei, vol.
1, pp. 1-4, 1966.

TROUSDALE, WILLIAM. The bear tamer: bronze statuette, China, fifth-
fourth century B.C. Jn Man through his art, vol. 3 (Man and
Animal), pp. 30-31. Published in the United States with the
sponsorship of the World Confederation of Organizations of the
Teaching Profession (WCOTP) and with the financial help of
UNESCO. Greenwich, Connecticut: New York Graphic Society,
1965. [Issued 1966.]

———. Scholars of northern Ch‘i collating classical texts. In Man
through his art, vol. 4 (Education), pp. 23-25. Published in the
United States under sponsorship of WCOTP and with the financial
help of UNESCO. Greenwich, Connecticut: New York Graphic
Society, 1966.

. A Chinese handle-bearing mirror from northern Afghanistan.

Afghanistan: Quarterly Review of the Historical Society of Afghan-

istan, Kabul, vol. 19, no. 4, 1964, pp. 27-38. [Issued 1966.]

. Rock-engravings from the Tang-i Tizao in central Afghani-

stan. East and West, new series, vol. 15, nos. 3 and 4, 1965, pp.

201-210. [Issued 1966. ]

National Collection of Fine Arts

Davw W. Scott, Director

NOTABLE MILESTONE IN THE HISTORY of the National Collection of

Fine Arts was marked by the transfer of most of the staff and
activities into permanent quarters in the renovated neoclassical
structure originally constructed to serve as the Patent Office building.
This handsome Washington landmark, covering the area between
7th and 9th and F and G Streets, N.W., was begun in 1836 under
the supervision of Robert Mills. The building itself is of great interest
historically and architecturally; at various periods, it has served as a
Civil War hospital, the scene of President Lincoln’s second inaugural
ball, and, more recently, the administrative home of the U.S. Civil
Service Commission.

In addition to planning for the opening, the National Collection of
Fine Arts (NCFA) has concentrated efforts on expansion of its
holdings, in research, and in improvement of its records systems.
The most significant accession of the year was the gift by Irene and
Herbert F. Johnson of the S. C. Johnson and Son collection, “ART:
USA,” acceptance of which was approved during 1967 by the Smith-
sonian Art Commission and the Board of Regents.

Augmentation of the collections was also effected through purchase
from budgeted funds for the first time.

The expanded space and facilities provided by the new quarters
caused a great increase in the effectiveness of many offices and
branches: the conservation laboratory allowed the full-time conserva-
tor, Charles Olin, to restore NCFA works of art on the premises;
initial steps were taken toward a more fully equipped photographic

307
308 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967

laboratory and frame shop; the Library initiated plans for an American
art archives. An architectural designer, acting as liaison between
NCFA and its architectural consultant, aided the staff in the develop-
ment of detailed plans for work, office, and exhibition areas.

New projects were begun by the International Art Program (IAP),
which received Smithsonian financial support for the first time. Other
projects previously begun were continued: efforts toward the preser-
vation of Government-owned art; the Art-in-the-Embassies program;
the lending of paintings and prints to Government offices; the White
House Rotating Exhibitions; and public lectures and films. Assistance
was also continued in the planning for the John F. Kennedy Center
for the Performing Arts. At the request of the White House, the
popular seminar on American Art was repeated for the current White
House Fellows. Planning went forward to formulate a program for
the Court of Claims building, and assistance for the Cooper Union
Museum continued. The project of recording all the exterior sculpture
in the Washington, D.C., area was brought near completion.

Advice and assistance was provided in a number of areas, such as
the selection, design, and planning for the monumental Calder stabile,
to be presented to NCFA for the Smithsonian by Mrs. Morris Cafritz.

As if in response to this growth and increased activity, an unprece-
dented number of college undergraduates and graduates applied for
internships.

All phases of activity must nevertheless be accelerated in the effort
to open a major museum less than a year hence—completion of the
interior architectural plans and details and the plans and “mock up”
of gallery installations and lighting; the rounding out of the collections
from gifts, purchases, or long-term loans; the restoration and con-
servation of works of art; and publication of catalogs or brochures on
the history of the building, on the content and range of collections,
and on the philosophy and mission of the bureau. Moreover, in order
to achieve recognition as an important museum for the Nation and as
the repository of American art, the needs of the collection must be made
public.

The upcoming year presents great challenges, but the Museum staff,
imbued with great enthusiasm and a determination to meet dead-
lines, expects that the museum will open on schedule and will be to the
Nation a source of special pride.

Smithsonian Art Commission

At the forty-fourth annual meeting of the Smithsonian Art Gommis-
sion, held in Washington on December 6, 1966, recommendations

NATIONAL COLLECTION OF FINE ARTS 309

were made for the reappointment of Gilmore D. Clarke, Stow Wengen-
roth and Andrew Wyeth for the usual four-year term. The following
officers were re-elected: Edgar P. Richardson, Chairman, Gilmore D.
Clarke, Vice-Chairman, and S. Dillon Ripley, Secretary. The following
were re-elected to the Executive Committee: David E. Finley, Chair-
man, Gilmore D. Clarke, Ogden M. Pleissner, Henry P. Mcllhenny,
Edgar P. Richardson (ex officio), and S. Dillon Ripley (ex officio).

At the special spring meeting of the Commission in May, it was
announced that Leonard Baskin had accepted an invitation to fill the
vacancy created by the death of Paul Manship.

Commission members reviewed works which had been submitted
since the December meeting and recommended their acceptance or
rejection for the Collection. Importantly, the Commission examined a
representative survey of the holdings in the NCFA collections which will
form the body of the material to be presented at the public opening of
the galleries in spring 1968.

The Collections

Among the major gifts received was the S. C. Johnson and Son§
collection, a group of 102 contemporary paintings, which will constitute
the core of the modern section of the survey of American art at the 1968
opening of the new galleries. A group of 209 watercolors was presented
to NCFA by the Ford Motor Company. A gift of 20 works by Henry
Lyman Sayen, from the artist’s wife and daughter, are being prepared
(with other works from a similar period in Philadelphia) for a future
exhibition. Other recent gifts include Mary Cassatt’s Spanish Dancer
Wearing a Lace Mantilla, donated by Mrs. Victoria Dreyfus; Robert
Henri’s The Blind Singer, by J. H. Smith, Jr.; George Bellows’ Mr. and
Mrs. Philip Wase and Raphaelle Peale’s Melons and Morning Glories, both
given by Paul Mellon; and John Sloan’s Gwendolyn, donated by Mrs.
John Sloan.

A bequest from the estate of Paul Manship of approximately 285
works included sculpture, drawings, and medals. Other gifts by artists
included Space Curve by Charles Shaw and Sun Over the Hourglass by
Paul Jenkins.

Purchases included View of Niagara Falls with Rainbow by Alvin Fisher,
Corner of the Studio by Henry McFee, The Golden Gate by Charles Sheeler,
and Catskill Creek by Jasper Cropsey; and several hundred graphic
arts items, including drawings by Robert Henri, John Sloan, William
Glackens, George Luks, and Gaston Lachaise; and prints by Winslow
Homer, Milton Avery, Ivan Albright, Grant Wood, Thomas H.
Benton, Reginald Marsh, Arshile Gorky, Gabor Peterdi, Mauricio
Lasansky, Jackson Pollock, Leonard Baskin, Ellsworth Kelly, Adolph

310 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967

Raphaelle Peale (1774-1825) Melons and Morning Glories, 1813. Gift of Mr.
Paul Mellon. (1967, 39.2)

Gottlieb, and many others. Commenced was an inventory of the
Juley photograph archives, which are being purchased by NCFA.
Altogether 200 paintings, 217 pieces of sculpture, 1412 prints and draw-
ings, and 33 miscellaneous items of decorative arts were submitted
for accessioning.

The Registrar’s inventory showed that 839 NCFA works were on
loan to Government agencies as of June 1967. During the year NCFA
lent 199 works to museums and other educational institutions, 564
to offices of the Federal Government, including 85 contemporary
pz intings and prints to the offices of the Vice President, the Executive
C flices, the National Council on the Arts, and the Bureau of the
I udg2t; and to NCFA were returned 108 works. A total of 122 works
were loaned to NCFA, primarily for the White House Program,
and 107 works were returned to lenders. A total of 2,318 objects were
photographed, including black and white, color transparencies, and
color slides. Over 3,500 works of art were removed to the new gallery
from the Museum of Natural History building and other storage
areas; 100 were restored, including 96 paintings and 4 sculptures;

'
|

NATIONAL COLLECTION OF FINE ARTS 311

Mary Cassatt (1845-1926), Spanish Lady with a Mantilla. Gift of Mrs. Victoria
Dreyfus. (1967.70)

and 193 were checked out through the Registrar’s office for framing,
including 16 done by outside contract.

A White House inventory, conducted during the summer of 1967,
indicated that approximately 200 works are currently on loan at the
White House. An inventory of the Barney collection showed that
174 were on loan. From this collection 16 paintings and pastels were
restored; and a special exhibition of pastels by Alice Pike Barney,
312 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967

Adolph Gottlieb (1903—) Three Discs, 1960. Gift of S. C. Johnson and Son
Collection.

Personal Impressions, was organized. Contents of the Barney Studio
House were cataloged and decorative art objects were purchased for
use in the House.

The library collections of the NCFA and National Portrait Gallery
were moved to spacious third-floor areas of the remodeled Patent
Office building. NCFA received by purchase or exchange 538 books
and catalogs; subscriptions to 70 periodicals were paid. In addition
to items received by purchase and exchange, gifts were received,
among which the most notable collections came from Dr. and Mrs.
Charles Nagel, James Billman (from the Estate of Victor Proetz),
Mrs. Adelyn D. Breeskin, and Stefan Munsing. Each of these dona-
tions consisted of several hundred items. Another important gift was
the complete set of the “March of America’ series, donated by the
publishers, the Xerox Corporation.
NATIONAL COLLECTION OF FINE ARTS 313

Exhibitions

The ambitious program of exhibitions continued the policy in-
augurated during the previous year. In its endeavor to present ex-
cellent material in depth, NCFA continues to select subjects primarily
from American art: the seven American art exhibits of this year were
all of works of the 20th-century. Three featured modern “‘old masters’’
and four were group shows of the works of artists who have reached
prominence within the last decade or two. Two of the year’s major
exhibits were organized by other institutions and were made available
to NCFA in Washington as well as to museums in other American
cities. Two small exhibits—one of books, the other of photographs—
reflect a new concern with the so-called minor arts. A second commit-
ment, to present in Washington foreign art exhibits sponsored by
the governments concerned, was represented by a show of ancient
Afghanistan treasures—a rare occasion for American museums and
the American public—continued over from the previous year.

Ancient Art From Afghanistan: Treasures of the Kabul Museum (continued
from previous year).

Rugs of Afghanistan (continued from previous year).

Hard Edge Trend (July 13-September 18, 1966). The exhibition was
organized for, and first presented at, the annual Department of State
reception held July 4 for junior foreign service officers. It consisted of
a number of paintings by contemporary American artists.

Eleven Pop Artists (July 20-September 18, 1966). The material exhibited
consisted of 33 prints by eleven contemporary artists which had been
presented to NCFA by the Philip Morris Company.

Paul Manship Memorial Exhibition 1885-1966 (August 10—September 25,
1966). Paul Manship was a member of the Smithsonian Art Com-
mission for 44 years, 20 of these as Chairman. The exhibition of 43
sculptures and 11 drawings by Manship, selected from among the
artist’s gifts to NCFA, was a tribute to him as an outstanding
American artist and as a benefactor of NCFA.

Drawing Society National Exhibition (September 15—-November 13, 1966).
NCFA was one of eleven museums to present this exhibition of 100
drawings by as many artists. The drawings had been selected from
six preliminary exhibitions sponsored regionally by the Drawing
Society.

The Drawings of Jasper Johns (October 26—December 4, 1966). The
one-man show of 46 drawings by Jasper Johns was organized by
NCFA with the cooperation of the Leo Castelli Gallery as a comple-
ment to the Drawing Society exhibit.
314 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967

To Be Alive (October 26—December 4, 1966). The exhibition consisted
of approximately 20 color photographs, blown up to exhibition scale
and selected from the highly praised film of the same title produced
for the Johnson Wax Company pavilion at the New York World’s
Fair, 1964-65. The still photographs came directly from the book
form of the film published by the Macmillan Company, which co-
ordinated with NCFA in planning the exhibit.

The United States at the 1966 Venice Biennale (December 1, 1966—January
15, 1967). The exhibition “brought home’’ the official American
presentation at the XXXIII Venice Biennale, the prestigious bi-
ennial International Art Exhibition. The four artists selected to
represent the United States were Helen Frankenthaler, Ellsworth
Kelly, Roy Lichtenstein, and Jules Olitski; 23 paintings and one
sculpture were shown.

William Glackens in Retrospect (February 10—April 2, 1967). Charles
Buckley, Director of the City Art Museum of St. Louis, selected 132
paintings, drawings, and etchings that surveyed the work of this
important American artist from the 1890s to 1937.

March of America (April 16-22, 1967). This small exhibit, organized in
recognition of National Library Week, centered on the ‘‘March of
America’’ series published by University Microfilms Library Service,
Xerox Education Division. Consisting of 100 facsimile editions of
significant literature in the study of American history, it also included
a selection of the original volumes.

Stanton Macdonald-Wright (May 4—June 18, 1967). This retrospective
exhibition of the work of one of America’s pioneer artists in the
20th-century abstract form contained over 90 paintings which sur-
veyed the 77-year-old artist’s well-known Synchromist period (circa
1912-1919) and showed the progression of his work through 1967.
Sections of a large 1935 mural, recently acquired by NCFA, were
featured. Corollary to the exhibit were the first public presentation
of Mr. Wright’s unique Synchrome Kineidoscope, a film-art projec-
tion device, and the publication of a catalog which collected and
reprinted many of the artist’s commentaries on his artistic theory
and philosophy.

The NCFA presented or assisted with special exhibitions in the
Washington, D.C., area for the White House, the District of Columbia
School Program, the Central Intelligence Agency, the General Account-
ing Office, the Bureau of the Budget, and the Greater Washington
Area Hadassah Women’s Organization. From the William T. Evans
collection 33 paintings were sent on special exhibition to the IBM
Galleries in New York City. A collection of lithographs, Contemporary
American Prints, which recently returned from a two-year tour in Europe
NATIONAL COLLECTION OF FINE ARTS 315

where it was circulated by the International Art Program, was shown
in the gallery of the American Federation of Arts in New York City.

International Art Program

The International Art Program (IAP) successfully concluded the
showing in Washington of the American section of the XX XIII Venice
Biennale. Approximately twenty new projects were undertaken during
the year, including exhibitions of contemporary prints, children’s art,
and Appalachian handicrafts.

A contract was negotiated with Brandeis University to organize the
American representation at the IX Sao Paulo Bienal, and a grant was
made to the Pasadena Museum to undertake the American exhibition
at the V Paris Biennial of Art.

Among the highlights of the year’s activities were the development
of plans for private sponsorship of a “Biennial Series” of publications,
discussions with officials of National Educational Television for tele-
vision coverage of the SAo Paulo Bienal and other IAP shows, and the
coordination with the Department of State whereby grants can be
obtained for artist-lecturers to accompany IAP exhibitions.

A major fund drive to finance the XX XIII Venice Biennale exhibi-
tion was successful, and budgetary provisions were made toward the IX
Sado Paulo Bienal. The latter exhibit required limited supplementary
funds which were obtained by a second appeal for private support.

Special Services

To inform the public about the National Collection of Fine Arts,
a 16-page illustrated pamphlet describing briefly its history and plans
for development was printed for free distribution, and a small model
of the old Patent Office building was constructed, with a set of nine
panels to orient the public to the “‘newest Smithsonian museum.”

To arouse public awareness of the activities of the International Art
Program and to discuss opinions of national art interest, a special
symposium, ‘“‘How Should American Art Be Presented Abroad?” was
presented on December 8. The distinguished panelists were Hilton
Kramer, art critic of the New York Times; Grace Borgenicht, gallery
director; Kenneth Noland, artist; Clement Greenberg, critic, and
Abram Lerner, curator of the Hirshhorn Collection. There was a
standing-room-only audience for the event.

A special six-evening film series, “The History of the Art of the
American Film,” was prepared for the Smithsonian Associates. The
programs included excerpts from famous films under the topics
316 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967

Installation of the United States entries at XX XIII Venice Biennale Exhibi-
tion, in the National Collection of Fine Arts, showing the work of Roy Lichten-
stein and Helen Frankenthaler.

of: The Comedy, The Serial, The Western, The Musical, The Spec-
tacle, and The Star System.

In conjunction with the special exhibition programs, there were eight
guest-lecture evenings, of which particularly noteworthy were three
programs by Stanton Macdonald-Wright.

Jane Snyder, under the direction of the assistant for special services,
did research on the history of the Venice and S4o Paulo biennials and
on the old Patent Office building. Mrs. Daryl Rubenstein worked in the
office of the assistant for special services as a volunteer doing special
research for press releases and other projects. Following the resignation
of John Latham, in May, Jane Morse assumed temporary direction of
activities as acting assistant for special services.

Responsibility for a rotating exhibition of art in the White House
continued; more than a hundred works by contemporary American
artists have been kept on view there and in the Executive Office Build-
ing, displayed individually or in small changing exhibits.

The White House Fellows’ Seminar on American Art, inaugurated
last year, engendered so much interest that NCFA was requested to
repeat the series, which consisted this year of five informal lectures or
panel discussions. Developed for the White House Fellows, members
of the White House staff, the Cabinet, and their wives, the Seminar
surveyed the history of American art, with emphasis on the period since
1900. It was presented by staff members with guest speaker John W.
McCoubrey, associate professor of art, University of Pennsylvania.

The Art-in-the-Embassies Program, directed by Mrs. Nancy P.
Kefauver, Department of State adviser on fine arts, combines the
NATIONAL COLLECTION OF FINE ARTS 317

Appalachian Handicrafts exhibit of the International Art Program, on display
in Helsinki, Finland. It was also seen in Reykjavik, Iceland, and Bonn, Ger-
many, during the year.

energies of private interests and government to build a nationwide
program to support a worldwide service. It is cultural diplomacy in
action. Since its inception, in January 1964, collections have been
provided for 75 United States embassies. Of the 64 collections currently
in circulation, 32 were started during this year. The program currently
represents nearly a thousand American artists, whose work is available
from 483 lenders throughout the United States. NCFA continues to
provide the facilities for reception, handling, and display of these
works in Washington.

Recently NCFA has been instrumental in bringing together repre-
sentatives of a cross-section of the art world in the greater Washington
area. An informal meeting of art museum directors, curators, profes-
sors, and artists has been scheduled at least once yearly at Barney
Studio House. These people have also been brought together through
special events such as openings and pre-opening dinners, film showings,
and lectures—all of which help to promote better working relation-
ships among members of the various Washington art groups.

The NCFA sponsored a number of lectures this year in conjunction
with its exhibitions and special events. During the showing of the
exhibition Ancient Art from Afghanistan, four lectures were held: “The
People of Afghanistan” by Leon B. Poullada; ‘‘Pre-Islamic Art of
Afghanistan” by John M. Rosenfeld; ‘“‘Nooristan, Afghan Ethno-
graphic Enigma” by Alan Wolfe; and “Herat, A Great Art Center
318 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967

in Afghanistan” by Richard Ettinghausen. In addition to the symposium
held in conjunction with the Venice Biennale exhibition, there was a
lecture to accompany the William Glackens exhibition, ““The Art of
William Glackens” by Richard Wattenmaker. The fourth lecture in the
White House Fellows’ Seminar, ‘““The American Scene from the Civil
War to 1900,” by John W. McCoubrey was also open to the public.

Staff members participated in one or more sessions of the White
House Fellows’ Seminar. In addition, Mrs. Breeskin delivered a
lecture on Jasper Johns in connection with the exhibition of his
drawings; lectured to the Smithsonian Associates on the “Art of
Mary Cassatt” and ‘‘New Trends in American Art’; participated in a
two-day seminar on American Civilization during which she spoke six
times to different groups; and lectured at the Northwood High
School in Bethesda on ‘‘Art and Society,” at a banquet for the Smith-
sonian Council on ‘“The Role of Museums in Promoting the Advance-
ment of Culture,’ and at the International Club in Washington on
the “Role of Art in International Understanding.”

Jacob Kainen delivered ten lectures to the Smithsonian Society of
Associates on ‘‘Printmaking: A Historical Survey,”? which traced the
development of printmaking from the Middle Ages to the early 20th
century.

Donald R. McClelland lectured to the Society of Associates on ‘“‘New
Directions in American Art.’? He also spoke on American art at the
National Capitol Planning Association, the Hospitality Information
Service for Diplomats in Residence, the Chevy Chase Art Association,
the West Virginia Art Association, and the University of West Virginia.
Harry Lowe presented a third lecture series for the Society of Associates,
‘Art Collecting for the Amateur.”

In April, Stefan Munsing lectured at the Heights Study Center in
Washington on “‘Abstract Art in America.’’ David Scott gave a lecture
at the Akron (Ohio) Art Institute and Richard Wunder lectured at
the Los Angeles County Museum of Art on “‘The Festival Designs of
Inigo Jones.”

The National Collection of Fine Arts provided Saul Steinberg with
office space for several months during his term as the first Smithsonian
Institution artist-in-residence. Mr. Steinberg presented the Smithsonian
Institution with a 50-foot scroll depicting his impressions of Wash-
ington during his stay.

Staff Activities

To the staff of the NCFA 22 people, 2 at the curatorial level, were
added.
NATIONAL COLLECTION OF FINE ARTS 319

William Glackens in Retrospect, on display in the Main Gallery during February
and March, gave a comprehensive overview of the work of this important
American artist of the early 1900s.

Lois Bingham, Chief, International Art Program, and William
Dunn, IAP exhibits officer, became regular staff members on July 1,
1966. Both were formerly on detail from the U.S. Information Agency.

Other personnel, on special status, who provided valuable support
to the NCFA, were: William Hofer, consultant designer; Mrs. Eva
Thoby-Marcelin, who did special research on educational-program
and sales-desk development; and Mallory Randle, on a predoctoral
internship given by the Smithsonian Research Foundation, who
performed research on murals and sculpture of the Public Works of
Art Project. Valuable assistance was also provided through the intern-
ship program; the number of summer interns increased from 9 in
1966 to 12 in 1967.

Resignations and transfers included Farnham Blair, Susan Bratley
Hornbostel, John Latham, and Mrs. Priscilla Wolff. The staff was
saddened by the October 21 death of Rowland Lyon, who had resigned
in August 1966. A further loss was sustained in the tragic death of
Linwood Lucas on April 23, 1967.

Director David W. Scott was elected this year to active membership
in the Association of Art Museum Directors. Curator of painting and
sculpture Richard P. Wunder visited Florence, Italy, to evaluate an
important collection of sculpture. Donald R. McClelland, associate
320 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967

\
if
i

q
Hi
t
-—

Ancient Art From Afghanistan—Treasures of the Kabul Museum, exhibit during
July and August 1966, provided an opportunity to see antiquities of high
aesthetic quality from a little-known culture.

curator of lending activities, served as staff coordinator in organizing
and presenting the Second White House Fellows’ Seminar. He ex-
amined 87 works of art brought to the NCFA for inspection, and
juried 14 exhibits in four states and the District of Columbia. Jacob
Kainen, who joined the staff in September 1966 as curator of prints
and drawings, set about developing the department and its holdings
for the 1968 opening. His efforts to acquire works to fill significant
NATIONAL COLLECTION OF FINE ARTS 321

This exhibit of ancient art from Afghanistan was on display in main gallery.

gaps in the collection entailed a number of trips to New York City to
visit dealers and potential donors. He was instrumental in acquiring
800 new examples by prominent graphic artists. He participated in a
symposium at the Washington Gallery of Modern Art; served as juror
for two local exhibitions; and was elected to the executive committee of
the Board of Directors of the Print Council of America. An exhibition
of his paintings was held at the Franz Bader Gallery, Washington,
D.C., in March 1967. Curator of contemporary art Mrs. Adelyn D.
Breeskin juried shows at Chapel Hill, North Carolina; Pennsylvania
State University, University Park, Pennsylvania; and locally at the
National Institutes of Health, George Washington University, and the
Arts Club of Washington.
S22 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967

Special consultant Stefan P. Munsing, on detail from the U.S.
Information Agency, was a member of the selection committee for
the White House Lending Program, and he lectured twice at the
White House Fellows’ Seminar. Curator of exhibits Harry Lowe
served as the Deputy Commissioner of the United States Pavilion at
the XX XIII Venice Biennale. Abigail Booth, assistant to the curator,
served as registrar-secretary at the United States Pavilion at the
Venice Biennale. David Keeler, technical assistant to the curator,
had a one-man show at the Studio Gallery in Alexandria, Virginia,
from February to March. Lois Bingham, in addition to her regular
duties as Chief of the International Art Program, participated in the
Department of State Panel Discussion on the role of visual arts in
international educational exchange. Margaret Cogswell, deputy chief
of the Program organized for the American Federation of Arts The
American Poster, an exhibition which will be circulated throughout the
United States. In April she traveled to Athens to reorganize the
exhibition Communication through Art.

Research

Research at the National Collection of Fine Arts is directed toward
promoting the appreciation and understanding of American art by
making the works and information about them more widely available
through such media as exhibitions, catalogs, books, and articles. The
related activities range from biographical investigations to critical
appraisals.

A number of projects have been undertaken by the department
of painting and sculpture. Of first priority was the compilation of
information on individual works of art preparatory to the publication
of a definitive catalog of the collections. Curator Richard Wunder
visited the Courtauld Institute of Art in London to study the identifica-
tion and attribution of English paintings in NCFA. Research con-
tinued on the Catlin and miniature collections, and on individual
artists such as William H. Holmes. Extensive research projects on art
works in the Washington area continued with the compilation of
information on existing art works commissioned under the Federal
Works Project of the 1930s and on all public sculpture. A complete
guide to the sculpture will be published next year. The department
is preparing a booklet on the history of the Patent Office building.
It also supervised the organizing, inventorying, and identifying of the
285 items in the Paul Manship bequest, preparatory to the selection
of the memorial exhibition of his work.
NATIONAL COLLECTION OF FINE ARTS 323

Mrs. Adelyn D. Breeskin has devoted much time to research on the
American artist Mary Cassatt, in preparation for the publication of
a catalogue raisonné of Cassatt’s works. For nine weeks during
winter she was assisted by Joyce Keener, a student intern from Ben-
nington College. Her studies carried her to all of the major museums,
university art galleries, and dealers in the United States, London,
and Paris. She has completed research on about 300 pastels, 269 oils,
and 300 watercolors and drawings, and hopes to complete the work
within the year. The two-volume catalogue raisonné will be published
by the Smithsonian Institution Press.

David W. Scott gathered the material for two retrospective studies
of 20th-century American artists. He wrote a critical and biographical
essay for a memorial volume on the sculptor Albert Stewart, and he
selected paintings and writings of Stanton Macdonald-Wright to
serve as the basis for an exhibition and catalog which presented the
first full survey of the artist’s long and outstanding career.

Curator of prints and drawings Jacob Kainen, whose research has
resulted in several articles and books, traveled to Wilmington, Dela-
ware, and elsewhere to study the prints of John Sloan preparatory
to the publication of a complete catalogue raisonné and analysis
of Sloan’s etchings, to be published within the year. He also examined
all the prints of Raphael Soyer from 1917 to the present in preparation
for the publication of a catalog on Soyer’s works to be published by
the American Association of Artists.

Publications

Publications prepared under the auspices of the National Collection
of Fine Arts are as follows:

The art of Stanton Macdonald-Wright, including a treatise on color
by S. Macdonald-Wright: A retrospective exhibition, May 4
through June 18, 1967. Introd. by David W. Scott. 100 pp., 30
illustr. Washington: Smithsonian Institution Press, publ. 4707,
1967.

Catalogue of the Alice Pike Barney Memorial Lending Collection, by
Delight Hall. 195 pp., 99 illustr. Washington: Smithsonian Insti-
tution Press, publ. 4522, 1966.

The March of America, an exhibition celebrating National Library
Week. Introd. by David W. Scott; foreword by Jacob Kainen;
text by Peter C. Welsh. 32 pp., 18 illustr. Prepared by the Xerox
Corporation for the National Collection of Fine Arts, 1967.
324 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967

National Collection of Fine Arts, Smithsonian Institution, Washing-
ton, D.C. Introd. by David W. Scott, 20 pp., 12 illustr. Washing-
ton: Smithsonian Institution Press, publ. 4698, 1967.

Paul Manship, 1885-1966. Tributes by David E. Finley, Walker
Hancock, Robert Cushman Murphy. Introd. by S. Dillon Ripley
and Walter N. Trenerry. 24 pp., 17 illustr. Washington: Smith-
sonian Institution Press. publ. 4686, 1966.

Publications by the staff include the following:

CocswELL, MARGARET, ed. The American poster. 84 pp., 106 illustr.
New York: The American Federation of Arts and October House,
Inc. 1967. Also, in the above, an article, p. 62: A changing medium:
A new environment.

KaInEN, JAcoB. Michael Ponce de Leon. Foreword to catalog
of exhibition at the Corcoran Gallery of Art, October 1966. 6 pp.,
2 illustr. Washington: Washington Print Club, 1966.

————. Gene Davis and the art of color interval. Art International
(December 1966), vol. 10, no. 10, pp. 30-33, 5 illustr.

. The etchings of Canaletto. 63 pp., 44 illustr. Washington:
Smithsonian Institution Press, publ. 4676, 1967.

Lowe, Harry. In Venice: Backstage at the Biennale. Museum News
(November 1966), vol. 45, no. 3, pp. 11-18, 33 illustr.

Monsinc, STEFAN P. The drawings of Jasper Johns. Introd. and
catalog. October 1966. 4 pp.

. The sculpture and drawings of Jacques Lipchitz. Introduc-
tion and catalog of retrospective exhibition at Watergate Apart-
ments, held by the Greater Washington Area Hadassah Women’s
Organization.

Scott, Daviy W.; McCLELLAN, DouGLas; PALMER, ROBERT B.;
and SHEETs, MILLARD. Foreword in Albert Stewart. Claremont,
California: Scripps College, 1966.

——-—. American Section: Venice Biennale, 1966. Art Education
(December 1966), vol. 19, no. 9, pp. 18-21, 7 illustr.

TRUETTNER, WILLIAM H. Portrait of America: 1865-1915. Introd.
to catalog of exhibition held at IBM Gallery, New York, New
York, January 16-February 25, 1967. 2 pp., 4 illustr.

Wounber, RicHArp P. 17th and 18th century European drawings.
1966, 63 pp. (exhibition catalog). New York: The American
Federation of Arts.

. A forgotten French festival in Rome. Apollo (May 1967),

vol. 85, no. 63, pp. 354-359.

National Portrait Gallery

CHARLES NAGEL, Director

N°? LONGER APPLICABLE to the National Portrait Gallery is the
dictum attributed to George V of England: ‘“‘A public authority
meanly housed may be a public authority meanly esteemed.”

In January 1967 the NPG moved into the Fine Arts and Portrait
Galleries, formerly the old Patent Office building. The new quarters
are spacious and, thanks to architects Faulkner, Stenhouse, Fryer, and
Faulkner and to the Gallery’s associate architect, the late Victor
Proetz, they are imbued with dignity, charm, and character. As the
fiscal year ends, finishing touches are still being installed. Next will
come the final steps of turning a handsome old public building into a
useful museum, to the general purposes of which the aged structure
has been sensitively altered and adapted. This transformation has
involved many technical details impossible to foresee in full, or
dependent upon funds that were insufficient. There will have to be as
well a furnishing program of some size for the offices, library, labora-
tories , administrative suite, and public exhibition spaces of the building.
It is obviously a far more difficult task to adapt unobtrusively a distin-
guished old building to the purposes of exhibition than it is to plan
such a building from scratch. But at least a very good start has been
made, and, meanwhile, the office space afforded is proving a luxurious
contrast to former temporary quarters in the Arts and Industries
building.

The Gallery now will be able to come out into the open. Scarcely a
week passes that does not bring visitors interested in a preview of the
building, so that during the interval before the opening in 1968 the
Gallery’s public image steadily grows in stature.

325
326 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967

The opening date of the Gallery is now definitely set for September
1968, and preliminary preparations are already under way to gather
a large exhibition of portraits to celebrate appropriately and in distin-
guished fashion this important occasion. The responses of those to
whom requests have been directed, both individuals and institutions,
have so far been encouraging. A special ad hoc committee drawn from
the staff and the Portrait Gallery Commission, plus a few members
without formal connection with the Gallery, has this matter well in
hand. Thus, the Gallery is now well on the road to realizing what
has been the dream of many people over a longer period of time than
it perhaps should have been: the establishment of a great collection
of the likenesses of those who for some two hundred years have created
in the minds of men the world over an image of greatness for our
country.

Meanwhile, there is much to do both in devloping an agreed-upon
program and in preparing for opening to the public with an out-
standing show. Fortunately, the Gallery is blessed in having ready for
the task an able staff, and will now be permitted to add to it the ad-
ditional members so greatly needed for it to emerge into a full-fledged
museum—one that is, indeed, unique in the history of our country.
A year of preparation is in order. That it will be a busy and rewarding
one there can be no doubt.

National Portrait Gallery Commission

During the year, the roster of the National Portrait Gallery Commis-
sion remained the same, with those whose membership had expired
being reappointed to a new term. The newest member, Dr. Edgar P.
Richardson, former Director of the Detroit Institute of Arts and of
the H. F. du Pont Winterthur Museum, who was appointed just
previous to the beginning of the fiscal year, has been extremely helpful,
giving the Gallery wise advice based on many years of practical ex-
perience in the museum field in general and in American art in
particular.

The Collections

Paralleling the problems of getting the building in condition are,
of course, those involving the collections. Solving these will now be
facilitated greatly by the move of conservator Charles H. Olin into
his new and well-equipped laboratory.

The 58 accessions for the year, in a variety of media, range from
paintings and sculpture to a few exceptional photographic likenesses.
Of these, 16 were carefully selected purchases from the Museum fund.
NATIONAL PORTRAIT GALLERY

Adlai Stevenson, by ‘Trafford Klots, gift of Mrs. Marshall Field and Mrs.
Elizabeth Ives, 1967. (NPG.67.33)

328 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967

During the year the Gallery held three exhibits in its hall in the Arts
and Industries building: “‘Recent Accessions,’’ with a checklist catalog
prepared by curator Robert Stewart, and ‘“‘Faces from the American
Past’? showed a cross section of our present collection and empha-
sized recent acquisitions; the third, “Interpretations of Notable
Americans,’ was undertaken with the aid and cooperation of the John
Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Company. This last show was of
outstanding interest. In it was used a selection from that company’s
collection of modern illustrations of great American personages con-
trasted in each case with portraits from life of these same national
figures drawn from the NPG collection. A 4-page catalog was contrib-
uted by the John Hancock Company. In September all portraits
telonging to the Gallery will be brought to the new quarters in order
to prepare them for the opening exhibition.

It is interesting to note that the accessions include practically all
media: painting and sculpture are naturally the most frequent, but
there are representations in a variety of techniques including a very
contemporary painting of Adlai Ewing Stevenson by Edward Weiss
on an acryllic globe. The Gallery is grateful for all gifts; mention of a
few accessions gives an idea of the range in terms of period, the field
of activity of the sitter, and the varying styles of portraiture that
have come into the collections this year.

A satiric self-portrait of George Gershwin is a gift from his brother
Ira; a likeness of Andrew Jackson by James Tooley, Jr., comes from
Mary Lively Hoffman, Charles T. Lively, and William H. Lively;
Charles Cotesworth Pinckney by Henry Benbridge and a self-portrait
of James Barton Longacre, whose engraved portraits comprised the
National Portrait Gallery of Distinguished Americans, published in 1834—39,
were both purchases; a pair of portraits of General and Mrs. Samuel
Smith by Gilbert Stuart was a gift from Dr. and Mrs. B. Noland Carter
in memory of Dr. Carter’s aunts Miss Mary Coles Carter and Miss
Sally Randolph Carter; a painting of Adlai E. Stevenson by Trafford
P. Klots was given by Stevenson’s sister Mrs. Ernest L. Ives and Mrs.
Marshall Field; a bust of Katherine Cornell by Richmond Barthé and
a group of portraits of American Negroes came from the Harmon
Foundation; a splendid likeness of Elihu Root by Augustus Vincent
Tack was a bequest from the late Duncan Phillips; and finally a
bronze bust of Florenz Ziegfeld, by an unknown artist was a gift
from an anonymous donor. A full list of gifts and purchases is
appended.

A beginning has been made in acquiring antique furniture for the
galleries, thanks to the interest of David E. Finley, who is himself
giving a Sheraton-Empire card table attributed to Duncan Phyfe,
NATIONAL PORTRAIT GALLERY 329

George Gershwin, by George Gershwin, 1934, gift of Ira Gershwin, 1966.
(NPG.66.48)

while Mrs. Finley and her sister Mrs. Eustis Emmet are contributing
an early oak blanket chest, a pair of 19th-century side tables, and a
large sideboard which once belonged to Daniel Webster. Nothing will
enliven more effectively the galleries of portraits than the introduction
into them of the sort of decorative arts with which the portraits were
associated when they were privately owned, and the Gallery is delighted
that an introduction to this program has been made.

Additions to the Collection

Subject Artist Donor or Fund
Anderson, Marian Laura Wheeler Waring Harmon Foundation
Barrow, Joe Louis Betsy Graves Reyneau Harmon Foundation
Bunche, Ralph Betsy Graves Reyneau Harmon Foundation
Chase, Samuel John Wesley Jarvis Museum Fund
Cooper, James Fenimore _ Attributed to Charles Alexis I. duPont deBie
Loring Elliott

Cornell, Katherine Richmond Barthé Harmon Foundation
Drew, Charles Betsy Graves Reyneau Harmon Foundation

Du Bois, William Laura Wheeler Waring Harmon Foundation
330

Subject

Einstein, Albert
Eliot, Charles William

Emmet, Thomas Addis
Fillmore, Millard
Fiske, Minnie Maddern

Ford, Worthington
Chauncey

Gershwin, George

Grant, Ulysses S. and
Generals

Green, Nathaniel

Harrison, William Henry

Helmuth, Justus Henry
Christian

Heyward, Du Bose

Holmes, Oliver Wendell

Houston, Charles

Jackson, Andrew

Jefferson, Thomas
Johnson, Charles
Johnson, James
Longacre, James Barton
Longfellow, Henry
Wadsworth
Marshall, Thurgood
Masters, Edgar Lee
Mendenhall, Thomas
- Corwin
Morton, Levi Parsons

Nast, Thomas

Pinckney, Charles
Cotesworth

Pope, John Russell

Randolph, Asa

Rockefeller, John D.

Roosevelt, Eleanor
Root, Elihu

Rose, Billy

Sabin, Albert Bruce
Sandburg, Carl
Sandburg, Carl
Schoenberg, Arnold
Smith, Mrs. Samuel

SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967

Artist

Max Westfield

Anne Ware Sabine
Siebert

C. L. Hogeboom

James Bogle

Culin(?)

Artist unknown

George Gershwin

Ole Peter Hansen Balling

Valentine Green
Albert Gallatin Hoit
John Eckstein

George Gershwin
Artist unknown

Betsy Graves Reyneau
James Tooley, Jr.

Kosciusko-Sokolniki
Betsy Graves Reyneau
Laura Wheeler Waring
James Barton Longacre
James Henry Haseltine

Betsy Graves Reyneau

Francis J. Quirk

Anne Ware Sabine
Siebert

Leon-Joseph Florentin
Bonnat

John W. Alexander

Henry Benbridge

Augustus Vincent Tack

Betsy Graves Reyneau

Adrian Lamb after John
Singer Sargent

Alta Shore Purdy

Augustus Vincent Tack

Edward Weiss

Edward R. Amateis

Edward Steichen

Miriam Svet

Muriel P. Turoff

Gilbert Stuart

Donor or Fund

Max Westfield

John Marshall and
Elizabeth L. Howie

Museum Fund

Museum Fund

Mr. and Mrs. Walter H.
Schnormeier

William A. Ellis

Ira Gershwin
Margaret Garber Blue

Museum Fund
Museum Fund
Museum Fund

Ira Gershwin
Museum Fund
Harmon Foundation
Mary Lively Hoffman,
Charles T. Lively and
William Lively
Museum Fund
Harmon Foundation
Harmon Foundation
Museum Fund
Museum Fund

Harmon Foundation

Francis J. Quirk

John Marshall and
Elizabeth L. Howie

Mrs. Eustis Emmet and
Mrs. David E. Finley

Museum Fund

Museum Fund

The Phillips Collection
Harmon Foundation
John D. Rockefeller III

Mrs. Richard Purdy

Duncan Phillips

Museum Fund

Edward R. Amateis

Edward Steichen

Mrs. Dore Schary

Mrs. Abraham Turoff

Dr. and Mrs. B. Noland
Carter
NATIONAL PORTRAIT GALLERY

Subject
Smith, Samuel

Steichen, Edward
Stevenson, Adlai Ewing

Stevenson, Adlai Ewing

Story, Joseph

Tubman, Harriet

Truman, President and
His Military Advisers

Washington, George

Watson, Forbes

Webster, Noah

White, Walter

Wright, Louis Tompkins

Ziegfeld, Florenz

Artist
Gilbert Stuart

Joan Miller
Trafford Klots

Edward Weiss

Chester Harding
Robert S. Pious
Augustus Vincent Tack

Valentine Green
Agnes Watson

James Herring

Betsy Graves Reyneau
W. E. Artis

Artist unknown

331

Donor or Fund

Dr. and Mrs. B. Noland
Carter

Museum Fund

Mrs. Marshall Field and
Mrs. Elizabeth Ives

Morris Leibman

Museum Fund

Harmon Foundation

The Phillips Collection

Museum Fund

John H. Paterson
William A. Ellis
Harmon Foundation
Harmon Foundation
Anonymous Donor

History Department

The history department’s activities have fallen into three separate
but closely interconnected categories: exhibitions, the catalog of
American portraits, and research and publications.

For exhibitions, the department supplied biographical captions for
portraits appearing in the small catalog entitled “Recent Acquisi-
tions,” identifications for works shown in “Interpretations of Notable
Americans,” and a complete exhibition script for “Faces from the
American Past.” It submitted for the approval of the Gallery’s Com-
mission a preliminary list of sitters for the exhibition to be shown
upon the official opening of the Gallery and has begun work with
Riddick Vann on a plan for this exhibition.

The Catalog of American Portraits, a national inventory of like-
nesses of Americans of historical significance, has developed con-
siderably. For each of nearly 10,000 portraits within it a dossier con-
taining a detailed record and, wherever possible, a photograph is
being set up. Much of the print and engraving collection of the
Gallery, assembled by picture librarian Genevieve A. Kennedy, is
being integrated into the Catalog. Reference service by sitter or by
artist is being given now on inquiries about portraits. The first steps
have been taken toward the use of automatic data processing for the
Catalog, so that it can be indexed by any of its components or any
combination of them. Filed by sitter, each record contains the sitter’s
dates, occupation, and region. Under each sitter, dossiers are ar-
ranged alphabetically by artist, giving the latter’s dates and region.
The medium, dimensions, description, and history of each representa-
tion are also supplied, with all facts documented.
332 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967

In July 1966, Mrs. Virginia Purdy spent three days in Nashville,
Tennessee, working with a photographer to catalog the portraits of
Andrew Jackson and his circle at the Hermitage. Notes were made
on other Jackson portraits in and around Nashville. This kind of re-
search in the field represents one of the Gallery’s approaches to the
study of American portraiture. Another approach has been the acqui-
sition of photographs of all portraits in several of the nation’s major
repositories, and many items from the Gallery’s prints and photo-
graphs collection are being integrated into the Catalog. Several steps
were also taken to coordinate the program of the Gallery with related
works of the Prints and Photographs Division of the Library of
Congress.

The long task of John Fraser of transcribing the records relating to
American portraiture in the Frick Art Reference Library in New
York was completed this year. The Gallery is beholden to the Frick
Library for their willingness to make available these fundamental
documents on which to base future research.

Daniel J. Reed has worked with the National Portrait Gallery
Commission’s recently appointed research and publication com-
mittee, of which Dr. E. P. Richardson is chairman, te set up the
Gallery’s future program. As a result of recommendations of this
committee and divisions of the full Commission of the Gallery and its
Director, the history department is responsible for the overall editing
of a catalog of the Gallery’s permanent collection and all future ex-
hibition catalogs.

In the planning stages is a multi-volume study of the portraits of
the leaders of the American Revolution to appear during the bicen-
tennial celebration, and probably to include a publication in micro-
film and letterpress of the papers of Charles Willson Peale, portrait
painter of the Revolution. This latter task is being undertaken in
cooperation with the American Philosophical Society.

Curatorial Activities

New staff members include Joseph A. Yakaitis who has assumed
most ably the complex duties of administrative officer. Riddick Vann
brings with him to the post of exhibits curator many years of valuable
experience gained from the Office of Exhibits, U.S. National Museum.
Charles Olin, who is serving as conservator to both NCFA and NPG,
comes also from the National Museum and is working on objects from
both collections in a laboratory well equipped for this most essential
service. Thomas Girard joined the staff as the NPG representative
NATIONAL PORTRAIT GALLERY 333

PETS PAR Sa peREET ney iperNe —
va 5 « - =
4 * ‘ ‘yy

>
is
i:
i

[

F
%
:

Hi

rs ~ Eee RET EE Leenshaaneedbadh APSE AE EMO. ENE PO: lg LEY
nit pom sat Wine ALI ME LI TES TOR MO ae gee Nears seni ony tye tt Naa. op Day 4
“ 0 ~eestert eat RE EV OR Ate wi eo 4 ‘

ss . PRY Ue OER oth aet- 8 8-H
tassios ie Ceol Arathi g Sean ae Re bb aS Wee Ue thal men ced ee ty

James Barton Longacre, by James Barton Longacre, ca. 1830, purchase, 1967.
(NPG.67.14)

in the office of registrar and Monroe Fabian is assisting Mr. Stewart
as fine arts historian in the curatorial department.

During the year the Director continued to work on the completion
and furnishing of the building in addition to his normal duties. He
addressed a Yale Club audience in New York, the Gunnery School in
Washington, Connecticut, and the Arts Club of Washington, D.C.,
334 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967

on the collections and program of the NPG. He also gave an address
on the Gallery to the Regent and Vice Regents of the Mt. Vernon
Ladies Association and was appointed a member of the Association’s
Advisory Committee. During the year he served on the Blair House
Fine Arts Committee. His article, ““The National Portrait Gallery,”
lavishly illustrated, appeared in the November 1966 issue of Antiques.
Dr. Reed, who went on a year’s leave of absence in January, spoke
on the program and collections at the Wayne State University in Detroit.
An article by him on the Catalog of American Portraits will appear
in the July issue of the American Archivist. Dr. Reed’s absence leaves
a large gap in the staff but it was felt important to permit him to

perform a public service by pursuing, on a temporary basis, work —

with the National Commission on Libraries. He has continued dili-
gently, however, to keep abreast of the activities of his department.
Meanwhile, Mrs. Purdy, the assistant historian, has been an able
substitute in his absence covering the day-to-day activities in the
field of history.

““A Portrait of John Bartram Identified,” an article of Robert G.
Stewart, was published in the January-February 1967 issue of the
Garden Journal of the New York Botanical Garden.

Librarian William Walker and Mrs. Shirley Harren of the Library
staff are members of the District of Columbia Library Association,
and Mrs. Harren became a member of the Special Libraries Associa-
tion this year, of which the Librarian was already a member. In the
local chapter of the Special Libraries Association, Mr. Walker served
as Chairman of the local Picture Division Group. This library
group met in the Fine Arts and Portrait Galleries building, where it
was addressed by Mrs. Purdy of the NPG staff. During the year,
Mr. Walker, Mrs. Harren, and Mrs. Aleita Hogenson have worked
as a reference staff with curators and researchers in the preparation
of all exhibitions mounted by NCFA and NPG. They have also
assisted in regular research in the library and, in addition, have
double checked bibliographies prepared by research staff.

A great lift was given the entire staff by the presence from February
15 to April 15 of C. Kingsley Adams, former Director of the National
Portrait Gallery of London.

Mr. Adams made himself acquainted with every aspect of the Gal-
lery’s program and ingratiated himself with the entire staff during his
stay here. Before leaving he prepared a report for the Director in which
he made certain suggestions, tactfully pointing out, however, that the
comparison of the Washington with the London galleries was based on
little more than the fact that both were concerned only with portraits
of those who had made distinguished contributions to the history of

|
NATIONAL PORTRAIT GALLERY 335

General Samuel Smith, by Gilbert Stuart, gift of Dr. B. Noland Carter in
memory of Miss Mary Coles Carter and Miss Sally Randolph Carter, 1966.
(NPG.66.50)

their respective countries. He pointed out certain procedures that had
proved successful in London, certain modifications that had been made
through the years in these procedures, and modestly gave the benefit
of his many years’ experience in the portrait field. This report was sent
to all members of the Commission.

A farewell tea was given in the Gallery by Mr. and Mrs. Adams
before they left Washington, and the staff saw them go with very real
336 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967

regret. No one could possibly have been more helpful than he during
his visit.

It is sad to report the death on August 20, 1966, of Victor Proetz, the
design consultant whose imagination and scholarly knowledge in the
field of interior design has done so much to give individuality and
character to the National Portrait Gallery. His architectural drawings
were an invaluable legacy to the Gallery, and the second floor, partic-
ularly the administrative suite, will be a lasting monument to his dis-
criminating taste. His witty, learned, and perceptive presence on the
staff will be greatly missed. The Gallery is fortunate in having Elinor
Merrell of New York volunteer professional help in working out the
many complicated details of furnishing.

Lastly, the Gallery has had much welcome aid this year in the form
of the various young people who have taken part in its program.
Nora Attems was volunteer assistant to Charles Olin in the Conserva-
tion Laboratory, and Tescia Yonkers was a volunteer for the summer
in the Curator’s office. From the Smithsonian’s summer-intern educa-
tion and training program the Gallery’s share of workers were William
Michael Bigel, Patricia Greene, Mary Grace Holback, Norvell Jones,
Mary Ann Mears, and Frances Yost; and from the Office of Economic
Opportunity, one representative of the Neighborhood Youth Corps,
Kathleen Bowen. Finally, the Gallery was able to employ four 700-
hour appointees, Nancy Beinke, Tom Carter, Mrs. Mona Dearborn,
and Mrs. Anna Gregersen, with whose aid many things were
accomplished that would otherwise have been quite impossible.

Library

The National Collection of Fine Arts—Portrait Gallery library
moved into the spacious third-floor area of the Fine Arts and Portrait
Gallery building in February and March 1967. The library continues
to grow steadily. During the past year 441 new titles were obtained
for the NPG collections. Of the subscriptions this year to 104 journals
and other serials, 34 titles were for NPG; in addition, several hundred
journals, mostly museum publications, were received on exchange or
as gifts.

In addition to items received by the joint library by purchase or
exchange, over two thousand books, catalogs, and journals were re-
ceived as gifts, of which the most notable came from Mrs. Adelyn
Breeskin, Stephan Munsing, Dr. and Mrs. Charles Nagel, and the
estate of the late Victor Proetz. Each consisted of several hundred
items.
National Gallery of Art

Joun WALKER, Director

Sir: Submitted herewith on behalf of the Board of Trustees is the
report of the National Gallery of Art for the fiscal year ended June 30,
1967. This, the Gallery’s 30th annual report, is made pursuant to the
provisions of section 5(d) of Public Resolution No. 14, 75th Congress,
Ist session, approved March 24, 1937 (50 Stat. 51), U.S. Code, title 20,
sec. 75(d).

Organization

The National Gallery of Art, although established as a bureau of the
Smithsonian Institution, is an autonomous and separately administered
organization and is governed by its own Board of Trustees. The
statutory members of the Board are the Chief Justice of the United
States, the Secretary of State, the Secretary of the Treasury, and the
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, ex officio. On April 5, 1967,
Stoddard M. Stevens was elected a general trustee of the National
Gallery of Art to serve in that capacity for the remainder of the term
expiring July 1, 1971, thereby succeeding John N. Irwin II. On May 4,
1967, Lessing J. Rosenwald was reelected a general trustee of the Gal-
lery to serve in that capacity for the term expiring July 1, 1977. The
three other general trustees continuing in office during the fiscal year
ended June 30, 1967, were Paul Mellon, John Hay Whitney, and Dr.
Franklin D. Murphy. On May 4, 1967, Paul Mellon was reelected by
the Board of Trustees to serve as President of the Gallery, and John
Hay Whitney was reelected Vice President.

337
338 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967

The executive officers of the Gallery as of June 30, 1967, were as

follows:

Chief Justice of the United States, Earl Warren, Chairman.

Paul Mellon, President.

Ernest R. Feidler, Secretary-Treasurer.

John Walker, Director.

E. James Adams, Administrator.

Ernest R. Feidler, General Counsel.

Perry B. Cott, Chief Curator.

J. Carter Brown, Assistant Director.

The three standing committees of the Board, as constituted at the
annual meeting on May 4, 1967, were as follows:

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE

Chief Justice of the United States, Earl Warren, Chairman.
Paul Mellon, Vice Chairman.

Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, S. Dillon Ripley.
John Hay Whitney.

Dr. Franklin D. Murphy.

FINANCE COMMITTEE

Secretary of the Treasury, Henry H. Fowler, Chairman.
Paul Mellon.

Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, S. Dillon Ripley.
John Hay Whitney.

Stoddard M. Stevens.

ACQUISITIONS COMMITTEE
Paul Mellon, Chairman.
John Hay Whitney.
Lessing J. Rosenwald.
Dr. Franklin D. Murphy.
John Walker.

Personnel
At the close of fiscal year 1967, full-time Government employees on
the permanent staff of the National Gallery of Art numbered 320.
The United States Civil Service regulations govern the appointment of
employees paid from appropriated funds.

Appropriations
For the fiscal year ended June 30, 1967, the Congress of the United

States, in the regular annual appropriation, and in a supplemental
appropriation required for pay increases, provided $2,822,000 to be

Fane et ¢
NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART 339

used for salaries and expenses in the operation and upkeep of the
National Gallery of Art, the protection and care of works of art acquired
by the Board of Trustees, and all administrative expenses incident
thereto, as authorized by the basic statute establishing the National
Gallery of Art, that is, the Public Resolution No. 14, 75th Congress,
Ist session, approved March 24, 1937 (50 Stat. 51), U.S. Code, title 20,
Secs: 71-795.
The following obligations were incurred:

Personnel Compensation and Benefits S2NSiis 308 LA:

All Other Items 394, 580. 39

Total Obligations Pe 1 Teas Ml lak}
Attendance

The 1,510,967 visitors to the Gallery during fiscal year 1967 repre-
sents a decrease of 66,141 from the attendance in 1966, which marked
the 25th anniversary of the Gallery when attendance was unusually
high. From July 1, 1966, through Labor Day and from April 1 through
Jun¢ 30, 1967, the Gallery was open to the public from 10 a.m. to
10 p.m. on weekdays and from noon to 10 p.m. on Sundays. For the
remainder of the year the Gallery was open to the public every day,
except Christmas and New Year’s Day, on a schedule of 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.
on weekdays and 2 p.m. to 10 p.m. on Sundays. Visitors during the
additional hours in summer 1966 and spring 1967 numbered 141,440.
The average daily attendance for the year was 4,162.

The Collections

There were 2,554 accessions to the collections by the National
Gallery of Art as gifts, loans, or deposits during the year. The following
gifts or bequests were accepted, and the following purchases were
authorized, by the Board of Trustees:

‘ PAINTINGS
Donor Artist Title
The Belcher Collection, Tarbell Mother and Mary
Stoughton, Mass.

Countess Bismarck Sully The Vanderkemp Children
Colonel and Mrs. Edgar Powell Studebaker in his Wagon-
William Garbisch Tire Shop, Hangtown,

California
3 Prior The Younger Generation
re Chambers Hudson River Valley,
Sunset

Unknown Fruit and Flowers
340

Donor

Colonel and Mrs. Edgar
William Garbisch

”

National Gallery of Art,
Ailsa Mellon Bruce Fund

National Gallery of Art,
Ailsa Mellon Bruce Fund

National Gallery of Art,
The Chester Dale Fund

National Gallery of Art,
Andrew Mellon Fund

National Gallery of Art,
Purchase Funds

Morris Schapiro

National Gallery of Art,
Ailsa Mellon Bruce Fund

Mrs. Michael H. Egnal
Colonel and Mrs. Edgar
William Garbisch

>

Miss Hilda Katz

Artist
Feke

Unknown
Kemmelmeyer
Williams
Avercamp
Gossaert (Mabuse)
Delacroix

Cole

Leonardo da Vinci

Charles Willson Peale

SCULPTURE
Maillol

GRAPHIC ARTS

Stuart Egnal
Unknown

+>

Emily Pelton

Pinney
Unknown

Mary Ann Willson

Unknown

Crecelius

Attributed to John
Landis

J. Evans

Hilda Katz

SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967

Title
Alexander Graydon

Christ on the Road to
Emmaus

First Landing of Christopher
Columbus

Miss Sarah Mershon

Daniel R. Schenck

A Scene on the Ice

Portrait of a Banker
The Arab Tax

The Notch of the White
Mountains
Ginevra de’ Benci

Benjamin and Eleanor
Ridgely Laming

Summer

6 Etchings

Baptismal Wish for
Catarina Titzlir

Reward of Merit for Anna
Maria Gergard

Reward of Merit for Peter
Schern

Jephthah Laments his Rash
Vows

Lolotte and Werther

“George Washington is
My Name”

The Prodigal Son Taking
Leave of His Father

The Prodigal Son Wasted
His Substance

The Prodigal Son in Misery

The Prodigal Son Reclaimed

Fruit in Fluted Bowl

Miesse Family Record

The Temptation

Family of Four
3 Prints

oe le
NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART 341

Donor

Miss Alice Hall Kerr

33

Mrs. Arthur William
Heintzelman

National Gallery of Art,
Print Purchase Fund

33

Artist

L. Frameng, after
Rembrandt

R. Earlon, after
Claude

Arthur William
Heintzelman

Master H. L.

Pissarro

Title
The 100 Guilder Print

A Landscape
7 Prints
Cupid on a Snail Shell

Marche aux Légumes a
Pontoise

WORKS OF ART ON LOAN TO THE GALLERY

The following works of art were received on loan, or were continued

on loan:

From

Nathan Cummings

Colonel and Mrs. Edgar
William Garbisch

Jerome Hill

David Lloyd Kreeger

Mr. and Mrs. Paul Mellon

Rear Adm. and Mrs.
Hubert W. Chanler

Artist

Prendergast
Hicks

Delacroix

Bonnard

Cézanne

Degas

Gauguin

Monet

Maillol

Stubbs

Stubbs

Various French
Artists

Various English
Artists

Prendergast

Degas

Degas

Various 18th Cen-
tury Artists

Title

Cove with Figures
Peaceable Kingdom

Lion Devouring a Goat
After Lunch

Road near Auvers

Woman Brushing Her Hair
Landscape

The Seine near Giverny
Pomona

Lion Attacking a Deer
Lion Attacking a Horse

68 Paintings

137 Drawings and Water
Colors

Salem Willows

14 Wax Sculptures

1 Bronze Sculpture

24 Drawings and Water
Colors

WORKS OF ART ON LOAN RETURNED

To
Mrs. Mellon Bruce
Colonel and Mrs.
Edgar William Garbisch

+)

Mr. and Mrs. Paul Mellon

Artist
Goya
Bradley

Field
Field
Hofmann

Unknown Artist
Degas

Title

Condesa de Chinchon
Emma Homan

The Death of the First Born
Egyptian Scene
View of the Schuylkill

City Almshouse Property
Joseph and Anna Raymond
1 Wax Sculpture
342

SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967

WORKS OF ART LENT BY THE GALLERY

The following loans were made during the fiscal year:

To

Abby Aldrich Rockefeller
Folk Art Collection

3

Arkansas Arts Center

Blair House

Carnegie Institute
Museum of Art, Pitts-
burgh, and Corcoran
Gallery of Art

Cincinnati Art Museum

Cleveland Museum of Art

Department of State

Detroit Institute of Art and
Munson-Williams Proctor
Institute

9

bb)

Howard University
State of Illinois Art Mobile
Joslyn Art Museum
Kalamazoo Institute of Arts

”

bb]

Montreal Museum of Art
Museum of Early American
Folk Art, New York

bb)
be)

bb]

Museum of Fine Arts, St.
Petersburg, Florida

LB)
>

”)

Norfolk Museum of Arts

and Sciences
>

bb)

>

Artist

Hudson Valley
Artist

39

Catlin
Sargent
Hicks

Twachtman
French, circa 1140
Catlin

Charles Willson
Peale

Rembrandt Peale
Johnston

Stuart

Zeliff

Catlin

Trumbull
Kensett

Homer

West

Unknown Artist

bb)

Phillips

29

Romney

Raeburn
Unknown Artist
Boucher

Guardi

Winterhalter
Greuze
Lely

Title
Johannes Van Vechten

Gentleman of the Willson
Family

Miss Van Alen

Christ Talketh with a
Woman of Samaria

18 Paintings of Indian Life

Miss Mathilde Townsend

The Cornell Farm

Winter Harmony

Chalice of the Abbot Suger

5 Paintings of Indian Life
and 2 Indian Portraits

Benjamin and Eleanor
Ridgely Laming

Richardson Stuart
Timothy Matlack

The Westwood Children
Sir John Dick

The Barnyard

35 Paintings of Indian Life
Alexander Hamilton
Newport Harbor

Breezing Up

Colonel Guy Johnson
Girl in Plumed Headdress

22 Houses and a Church
Joseph Slade

Alice Slade

Sir Archibald Campbell

Captain Patrick Miller
Girl with Doll

Diana and Endymion
Castel Sant’ Angelo

Queen Victoria

Girl with Birds

Barbara Villiers, Duchess
of Cleveland
NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART 343

To

Norfolk Museum of Arts
and Sciences

3

3)

Philadelphia Museum of Art

be)

Post Office Department
(Interpex), New York

Smithsonian Institution
Society of Four Arts,
Palm Beach, Florida

”

Whitney Museum of

American Art
3°

”

National Portrait
Gallery, Washington

Artist
Pater

”

Highmore

Manet

”

Homer

Audubon
Unknown
Bradley

Bundy
Chandler

Field
Phillips

Unknown

Walters

Chandler

3”

Cropsey
Durand

Harding
Herring
Huntington

”)

3”)

Johnson
be)

Lawson
Mount

Title
Féte Champétre

The Gift of the Fishermen

A scholar of Merton
College

Still Life: Melon and
Peaches

The Dead Toreador

Breezing Up

Columbia Jay
Martha
Little Girl in Lavender

Vermont Lawyer

Captain Samuel Chandler

Mrs. Samuel Chandler

‘He Turned Their Waters
into Blood”

Joseph Slade

Alice Slade

Catherine Hendrickson

The Sargent Family

Mahantango Valley Farm

The Start of the Hunt

The End of the Hunt

General Washington on a
White Charger

The Hobby Horse

Jonathan Benham

Memorial to Nicholas
Catlin

Captain Samuel Chandler

Mrs. Samuel Chandler

Autumn on the Hudson
River

Gouverneur Kemble

Self-Portrait

Junius Brutus Booth

Henry Theodore
Tuckerman

James Hall

John Edwards Holbrook

Edwin Forrest

joseph Wesley Harper

William Morris Hunt

Charles Loring Elliott
344 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967

To Artist Title

National Portrait Stuart Stephen van Rensselaer
Gallery, Washington

he 28 James Lloyd
22 Wiles Julia Marlowe Sothern

Other Gifts and Bequests

Gifts and bequests of money and securities were made by Auchincloss,
Parker and Redpath; Avalon Foundation; Mrs. Ailsa Mellon Bruce;
Estate of Chester Dale; J. I. Foundation, Inc.; Institute of Appliance
Manufacturers, {nc.; Samuel H. Kress Foundation; Estate of Miss
Loula D. Lasker; Mr. Douglas B. Maitland; Mrs. Cordelia S. May;
The A. W. Mellon Educational and Charitable Trust; Mr. Paul Mellon;
Old Dominion Foundation; Mr. Allen E. Ripingill; Mrs. James T.
Saari; and Mr. John Walker.

Exhibitions

The following exhibitions were held at the National Gallery of Art:

The Chester Dale Bequest (continued from previous year).

Art Treasures of Turkey (continued from previous year through July 17,
1966).

Etchings by Rembrandt from the Collection of the National Gallery of Art
(continued from previous year through August 17, 1966).

An Exhibition of City Views from the 16th to the 20th Century from the Collection
of the National Gallery of Art (July 1 through October 27, 1966).

Piranesi Etchings (August 13, 1966, through March 30, 1967).

17th- and 18th-Century Prints from the Collection of the National Gallery of
Art (August 13 through October 2, 1966).

17th- and 18th-Century European Drawings (August 14 through September
11, 1966). Organized by the American Federation of Arts and
sponsored by the Samuel H. Kress Foundation.

Engravings and Etchings by and after William Hogarth from the Rosenwald
and Addie Burr Clark Memorial Collections (August 18 through December
13, 1966).

Chinese Art from the Collection of H. M. King Gustaf VI Adolf of Sweden
(September 10 through October 9, 1966).

101 American Primitive Water Colors and Pastels from the Collection of
Edgar William and Bernice Chrysler Garbisch (October 9 through
November 20, 1966).

Canaletto and Bellotto Etchings (October 12, 1966, through April 24,
1967).
NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART 345

An Exhibition of Christmas Card Prints (October 28, 1966, through
February 1, 1967).

Master Prints from the Collection of the National Gallery of Art (November 24,
1966, through March 5, 1967).

American Prints from the Collection of the National Gallery of Art (December
14, 1966, through April 20, 1967).

Musical Prints from the 15th to the 20th Century from the Collection of the
National Gallery of Art (February 2 through May 30, 1967).

Festival Designs by Inigo Jones from the Collection of the Duke of Devonshire
at Chatsworth (March 19 through April 23, 1967).

Selection of Post-Impressionist and Expressionist Prints from the Rosenwald
Collection (April 21 through June 7, 1967).

100 European Paintings and Drawings from the Collection of Mr. and Mrs.
Leigh B. Block (May 5 through June 11, 1967).

15th- and 16th-Century German Prints (May 31, 1967, to continue into the
next fiscal year).

18th-Century Drawings from the Collection of Rear Admiral and Mrs. H. W.
Chanler (June 8, 1967, to continue into the next fiscal year).

Gilbert Stuart, Portraitist of the Young Republic (June 28, 1967, to continue
into the next fiscal year).

EXHIBITIONS OF RECENT ACCESSIONS: A Lady Writing by Jan Vermeer
(from previous year through October 26, 1966); Benjamin and Eleanor
Ridgely Laming by Charles Willson Peale (December 16, 1966,
through January 2, 1967); A Scene on the Ice by Avercamp and
Portrait of a Banker by Jan Gossaert (Mabuse) (February 1, 1967,
through February 14, 1967); and Ginevra de’ Benci by Leonardo da
Vinci (March 17, 1967, to continue into the next fiscal year).

Graphic Arts

Graphic arts from the National Gallery of Art collections were
included in four traveling exhibitions, and special loans were made
to 33 museums, universities, schools, and art centers in the United
States and abroad.

Curatorial Activities

Under the direction of chief curator Perry B. Cott, the curatorial
department accessioned 52 gifts to the Gallery. Advice was given
with respect to 1,818 works of art brought to the Gallery for expert
opinion, and 56 visits to collections were made by members of the
staff in connection with offers of gifts.

The registrar’s office issued 136 permits to copy and 134 permits
to photograph works of art in the Gallery’s collections. About 7,000
346 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967

inquiries, many of them requiring research, were answered orally
and by letter. There were 318 visitors to the graphic arts study room.
Approximately 9,000 photographs were transferred from the library
to the graphic arts department; permits for reproduction of 136
photographs were thereafter issued by that department.

Assistant chief curator William P. Campbell served as a member
of the Special Fine Arts Committee of the Department of State.

Assistant curator of graphic arts Katharine Shepard conducted a
graduate seminar in ancient sculpture, semesters I and II, at Catholic
University Art Department, Washington, D.C.

Assistant registrar Diane Russell taught a graduate and under-
graduate course at American University in northern Renaissance
painting.

The Richter Archives received and cataloged 206 photographs on
exchange from museums here and abroad; 1,096 photographs were
purchased and about 2,000 reproductions have been added to the
Richter Archives.

Restoration

Francis Sullivan, resident restorer of the Gallery, made regular and
systematic inspection of all works of art in the Gallery and on loan to
Government buildings in Washington and periodically removed dust
and bloom as required. He relined, cleaned, and restored 9 paintings;
gave special treatment to 72; and X-rayed 16 as an aid in research.
He continued experiments with synthetic materials as suggested by the
National Gallery of Art research project at the Mellon Institute of
Industrial Research, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. Technical advice was.
given in response to 214 telephone inquiries. Special treatment was
given to works of art belonging to Government agencies including the
United States Capitol and the Supreme Court.

Publications

A booklet on the new acquisition Ginevra de’ Benci by Leonardo da
Vinci was written by Perry B. Cott. The introduction to the catalog
LOI American Primitive Water Colors and Pastels from the Collection of
Edgar William and Bernice Chrysler Garbisch was written by William P.
Campbell and subsequently republished in the October issue of Art
News. An article and exhibition catalog on Giovanni Batista Gaulli
for the Oberlin College Bulletin was written by Mr. Cooke. An article
entitled “The National Gallery” written by Miss Susan Bell was
published in the Catholic Traveler, March 1967.
NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART 347

Publications Service

The Publications Service placed on sale ten new publications:
Ginevra de’ Benci by Leonardo da Vinci, a booklet with text by Perry B.
Cott; The National Gallery of Art (in Japanese) by John Walker; re-
prints of an article on the Gallery by John Walker from the National
Geographic Magazine for March 1967; A Gallery of Children by Marian
King (revised edition in color); The National Gallery of Art, A Twenty-
Five-Year Report; Rembrandt: Life and Work by Jakob Rosenberg (re-
vised edition) ; Paintings from the Samuel H. Kress Collection, Italian Schools,
XII-XV_ Centuries by Fern Rusk Shapley; Great Draughtsmen from
Pisanello to Picasso by Jakob Rosenberg; Art and Architecture in Holland
by Rosenberg and Slive; The Portrait in the Renaissance, the A. W.
Mellon Lectures in the Fine Arts for 1963 by John Pope-Hennessy.

Seven new Catalogs of special exhibitions were placed on sale: /7th-
and 18th-Century European Drawings; Chinese Art from the Collection of
H. M. King Gustaf VI Adolf of Sweden; 101 American Primitive Water
Colors and Pastels from the Collection of Edgar William and Bernice Chrysler
Garbisch; a second edition of French Paintings from the Collections of
Mr. and Mrs. Paul Mellon and Mrs. Mellon Bruce; Festival Designs by
Inigo Jones; 100 European Paintings and Drawings from the Collection of
Mr. and Mrs. Leigh B. Block; Gilbert Stuart, Portraitist of the Young Republic.

A 52-page catalog listing items sold by the Publications Service was
published ; and 60,000 copies of a catalog with black-and-white illustra-
tions of 49 Christmas cards, using reproductions of paintings, sculptures,
prints, and drawings from the Gallery’s collection was published and
60,000 distributed. Approximately 400,000 Christmas cards and note-
folders were sold.

There were produced 11 new 11’’ x 14’’ color reproductions (to
make a total of 295 subjects), 5 new color postcards (for a total of 244
subjects), and 13 2’’ x 2’’ color slides (for a total of 440 subjects).
A slide set, Painting in Georgian England, from the collection of Mr. and
Mrs. Paul Mellon, was made available with text and a recorded
lecture.

New color reproductions stocked included 12 22’’ x 28’’ overall and
6 large ones published by private companies, also reproductions of 4
bronze heads from the set of 36 deputies by Daumier in the Rosenwald
Collection.

Number of customers served:

Over-the-counter sales 310, 390
Sales by mail 13, 504

Total 323, 894
348 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967

Ginevra de’Benci, by Leonardo da Vinci, ca. 1480. Below:
Mrs. Lyndon B. Johnson and Mrs. J. Lee Johnson (back to
camera), President of the Amon Carter Museum of Western
Art in Fort Worth, Texas, with Ernest R. Feidler, the National
Gallery’s Secretary, Treasurer, and General Counsel (left), and
Director John Walker viewing the Gallery’s Ginevra de’ Benct
on Tuesday, April 4, 1967.

NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART 349

Educational Program

The program of the department was carried out under the direction
of Margaret Bouton, curator in charge of educational work.

The department continued its series of lectures, conducted tours,
and special talks on the works of art in the Gallery’s collections.
Attendance at the 736 tours was 22,126, an increase of 1,982 over last
year. Attendance for all regularly scheduled general tours, tours of the
week, and Picture of the Week talks amounted to 44,688, an increase
of 4,565 over last year.

Special tours, lectures, and conferences (a total of 637) were arranged
to serve 22,733 persons, an increase of 1,845 over last year. These
special appointments were made for Government agencies and bureaus
such as the Department of State, Foreign Service Institute, Foreign
Students Service Council, and the Armed Forces. Tours and lectures
were arranged for club and study groups and school groups from all
areas of the United States.

The program of training volunteer docents was continued, and the
department gave special instruction to 137 women from the Junior
League of Washington, D.C., and from the American Association of
University Women. By arrangement with the public and private
schools in the District of Columbia and surrounding counties of
Maryland and Virginia, these two organizations conducted tours for
2,641 classes with a total of 74,327 children.

A new program for pre-school children was begun this year in
connection with the Cooperative Nursery Schools supervised by the
Parents Pre-School Council of the D.C. Department of Recreation.
Training was given by the department to 16 volunteer docents, and
this program served 41 classes with a total of 820 children.

In the auditorium on Sunday afternoons 51 lectures were given with
slides or films. Attendance at these lectures was 15,095, an increase
of 120 over last year, when 52 lectures were presented. There were 33
guest lecturers, including the A. W. Mellon lecturer in the fine arts
Professor Mario Praz, University of Rome, who gave a series of six
lectures entitled ‘On the Parallel of Literature and the Visual Arts.”
Nine of the lectures were given by staff members. Two were full-
length film presentations.

The slide library of the educational department has a total of 49,674
slides in its permanent and lending collections. During the year 916
slides were added to the collection, 658 slides were recataloged, and
714 slides were bound. A total of 292 persons borrowed 8,922 slides;
it is estimated these were seen by 27,063 viewers.

Members of the staff participated in outside activities which included
lecturing to various club and school groups and Government agencies
350 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967

(some of which involved travel outside the metropolitan area).
Margaret Bouton gave a lecture at the Teachers’ Development Insti-
tute, Georgetown University. Raymond S. Stites gave two lectures
at American Ur iversity. Carleen Keating taught a survey course at
Montgomery Junior College.

John Brooks was responsible for LecTour recordings: 5 new
LecTours were recorded, 7 revisions were made in existing tapes,
and 64 copies of master tapes were made and installed. For the school
programs, 6 new texts were prepared, and in connection with the
Picture of the Week series 37 texts were written by members of the
department.

Members of the staff prepared and recorded 37 radio talks, which
were broadcast during intermissions of the Sunday night concerts.
The staff also prepared printed résumés to accompany the folios of
color reproductions for the Radio Picture of the Week series. One
member of the staff prepared the text for the Acoustiguide, which
went into operation about the middle of June, and wrote the texts
for new leaflets for eight Gallery rooms.

The monthly calendar of events was prepared for printing; it was
distributed to approximately 9,400 persons each month.

Total public response to the educational program, excluding shde
viewers, was 179,789, an increase of 13,580 over last year.

Extension Services

The Office of Extension Services, under the direction of Grose
Evans, circulated traveling exhibitions, films, slide lectures with texts,
film strips, and other educational materials.

Traveling exhibitions are lent free of charge except for shipping expen-
ses. The 136 exhibits circulated in 1,256 bookings represents an increase
of 134 bookings over the previous year. It is estimated that 879,200
persons viewed these exhibitions. In addition 13 exhibits are on loan
to other organizations for circulation; these were seen by approximately
88,056 persons in 244 bookings. Of three films on the National Gallery
and its collections, 80 prints were circulated in 723 bookings and were
seen by approximately 79,530 viewers. This represents an increase
over last year of 306 bookings and 33,660 viewers, when 50 prints of
the films were circulated. A total of 2,446 slide-lecture sets were
circulated in 8,400 bookings, an increase of 1,528 bookings over last
year. These were seen by an estimated 630,000 viewers.

As a pilot project, 77 slide lectures were placed on loan to six school
systems in various areas of the United States. Of the six systems, five
reported a total of 1,381 bookings, with an attendance of approximately
103,575 viewers.
‘NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART 351

Based on the improved method of estimating audience size mentioned
in the 1966 report, the Extension Service reached 1,780,361 persons,
an increase of 361,677 over last year.

In an effort to increase the effectiveness of the extension services
and to keep abreast of new developments in the audio-visual field,
the curator and the assistant curator attended meetings and conven-
tions in various states, displaying examples of the educational materials
available from the National Gallery of Art.

The National Gallery of Art cooperated with the United States
Office of Education and the George Washington University in a research
teacher-training program offered by the latter institution at the Gallery
from July 5 to August 12, 1966. Forty teachers were given courses in
art history, preparation of gallery tours, audio-visual teaching aids, and
Old Masters’ techniques. A similar project under the same sponsorship
began on June 26, 1967.

Library

Figures for processing of publications include: 2,143 accessioned
by gift, exchange, and purchase; 1,319 publications processed; 4,665
cards filed in the main catalog and the shelf list; 3,180 periodicals
received by gift, exchange, or purchase; 1,335 periodicals circulated
to the staff; 4,224 books charged to staff members; and 6,971 books
were shelved in regular routine.

The library distributed 1,333 National Gallery of Art publications
to 195 domestic and 195 foreign institutions under its exchange program
and 706 publications were received in exchange.

The library is the depository for black-and-white photographs of
the works of art in the Gallery’s collections. These are maintained for
use in research by the staff, for exchange with other institutions, for
reproduction in approved publications, and for sale to the public.
Approximately 3,957 photographs were added to the stock in the
library, and 1,409 orders for 9,274 photographs were filled, including
388 permits processed for reproduction of photographs covering 988
subjects.

This year a noticeable reduction in the figures for photographs added
to stock and reproduction permits processed occurred because of the
transfer, mentioned above under Curatorial Activities, of all graphic
arts photographs (approximately 9,000) from the library to the graphic
arts department.

Index of American Design

Under the supervision of Grose Evans, the Index of American Design
circulated 32 exhibitions in 60 bookings in 13 states. The Index also
circulated 144 sets of color slides (7,344 slides) throughout the United
352 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967

States, and 437 photographs of Index subjects were used for the purpose
of study, publication, and exhibition. The photographic file was in-
creased by 21 negatives and 153 prints. The Index received 338 visitors
who studied the material for research purposes and for collecting
material for design and publication. Sixteen permits were issued for
146 subjects to be reproduced for publication.

Three special exhibitions of Index materials were prepared for use
in the Gallery, and two were exhibited at the Interlochen (Michigan)
Music festival. ‘Two-exhibitions of Index material were circulated by
the Smithsonian Institution, and one was lent for a year to the National
Foundation on the Arts and Humanities.

Operation and Maintenance

The Gallery building, mechanical equipment, and grounds have been
maintained throughout the year at the established standards.

A portion of corridor 43 was remodeled by the installation of an
acoustical ceiling, improved lighting, and fabric-covered plywood
paneling.

A special installation was prepared for the exhibition of Leonardo da
Vinci’s painting Ginevra de’ Benci in lobby B. Controllable spotlights were
installed, and an electronic alarm system was provided for the protec-
tion of the painting.

The granite platforms in the approach to the Mall steps were raised
and repointed.

The Gallery greenhouse continued to produce flowering and foliage
plants in quantities sufficient for all decorative needs of special openings
and day-to-day requirements of the garden courts. A total of 4,135
potted or tubbed plants, all produced in the Gallery’s own greenhouse,
and valued at $50,470, were used in various stagings in the garden
courts, in the rotunda, and in special exhibitions throughout the build-
ing. By the end of the year, the horticultural department will have
completed 9,596 consecutive days of flowering plant arrangements in
the garden courts.

A broadened growing program, which will be aided by new unit
coolers currently being installed in the greenhouse, is beginning to
produce a wider range of beautiful and exquisite flowering plants.
Thus, the ever-changing panorama of the garden courts will provide
even more enjoyable and restful interludes for the Gallery’s many
visitors.

Pre-Recorded ‘Tours

The Gallery’s radio tour system, LecTour, was used by 61,570 visitors.
An additional electronic tour system, Acoustiguide, was made available
NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART 353

in June. This system makes use of a small tape-playback device and
offers visitors a 45-minute tour of highlights of the Gallery’s collection.
The recording for this tour was made by Director John Walker.

Music

Under the supervision of Richard H. Bales, Assistant to the Director
in Charge of Music, 38 concerts were given on Sunday evenings in
the east garden court. The Gallery Orchestra, conducted by Mr. Bales,
played ten of these concerts; two of them were made possible by
grants from the Music Performance Trust Fund of the American
Recording Industry. Thirty-two concerts were made possible by funds
bequeathed to the Gallery by William Nelson Cromwell, and the 24th
American Music Festival, consisting of six concerts on consecutive
Sunday evenings, April 9-May 14, was sponsored by the J. I. Founda-
tion, Inc. All concerts were broadcast locally by radio station WGMS-
AM and FM. Music critics of the local papers continued their coverage
of the concerts.

During intermissions at the concerts, talks on art subjects were
given by members of the educational department, and program notes
were given by Mr. Bales.

Two one-hour television programs by the National Gallery Orches-
tra, with Mr. Bales conducting, were telecast locally over WTOP-TV
on November 29, 1966, and February 21, 1967. Paintings and sculpture
in the Gallery’s collections were reproduced.

Mr. Bales appeared as a guest on radio programs and at civic
occasions, and served as chairman of the Instrumental Music Panel
of the Arts Advisory Committee of the D.C. Board of Recreation
during February and March 1967. He was awarded a certificate for
the National Gallery Orchestra television concerts by the American
Association of University Women. Mr. Bales’ National Gallery Suite
No. 3 and other compositions were performed by several orchestras
and solo recitalists in other cities during the season.

Research Project

For more than 15 years, the National Gallery of Art has supported
and maintained at the Mellon Institute in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania,
an outstanding scientific research laboratory for the application of
the physical sciences to problems of art and art history. The primary
objectives of the Research Project have been to develop new methods
and materials for the care of museum objects and to develop new
artists’ materials. The program has been concentrated on two areas
of broad significance to artists and to museums: the properties of
protective coatings and the damaging effects of light. From these
354 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967

investigations have come more than 30 technical publications in-
cluding one book, On Picture Varnishes and Their Solvents, and the
definitive study entitled Control of Deteriorating Effects of Light upon
Museum Objects by Dr. Robert Feller.

In the past two years, the research team turned its attention to an
important new area of interest: the application of nuclear science to
problems of the examination of works of art. The completion of a
highly successful research collaboration between scientists at Mellon
Institute and Pittsburgh’s Nuclear Science & Engineering Corpora-
tion was marked in March 1967 by the publication of a method of
analysis that promises to be useful in detecting 20th-century forgeries
of paintings produced allegedly in the 18th century or before. The
need for objective methods that would help experts to determine the
age of paintings was discussed with Mellon scientists a few years ago
by Director John Walker and Secretary Ernest Feidler. It was decided
to explore the possibility that a meaningful disequilibrium could be
detected between the radioactivity concentrations of lead-210 and
radium-226 in white lead pigment made from recently refined lead.
With the assistance and facilities of the Nuclear Science & Engineer-
ing Corporation, it was soon shown that this expected disequilibrium
could be measured in modern white lead but no longer existed in
pigment made from lead refined more than approximately 150 years
ago. Subsequent work readied the method for practical application.
The new method has already been applied successfully to a number
of known forgeries, and has been used on certain questioned paintings.
Publication of results of these applications is expected within the
next year.

Principally responsible for the aforementioned nuclear science work
have been Dr. Bernard Keisch and Dr. Robert L. Feller, senior fellow
of the Research Project.

In one phase of its activities, the laboratory at Mellon Institute
serves as the technical advisor to the National Gallery of Art concerning
the care of its collections. In the past year, for example, the research
project has made recommendations on the protection of objects from
the heating effects of strong illumination in showcases and in television
broadcasting. In January 1967 the Research Project was called upon
to design a case for transporting the famous portrait Ginevra de’ Benci
by Leonardo da Vinci from Liechtenstein to Washington, D.C.
Security conditions dictated that the painting be carried in a case
small enough to be easily handled by one person traveling by auto-
mobile and airplane over a period of 20 hours. During the journey
the package would occasionally be exposed for brief periods to cold
and inclement weather, and, hence, the delicate painting on wood
panel required protection from sharp changes in temperature and
NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART 355

humidity. The problem was solved by building a special inner con-
tainer for the painting which was then fitted into the fiber glass shell
of a commercially available suitcase and surrounded by layers of
thermal insulation. The satisfactory functioning of the package, first
tested in refrigeration rooms at Mellon Institute, was fully confirmed
in the successful completion of the mission during a single day’s journey
at the height of bad weather in February 1967.

Toward the end of January, the Committee to Rescue Italian Art
(CRIA) requested that Dr. Feller be given leave to go to Florence to
assist on problems concerning the care and treatment of frescoes which
had been damaged by the flood of the Arno on November 4, 1966.
His investigations, made in collaboration with the analytical laboratory
at Mellon Institute, soon showed that two kinds of salts were causing
problems in the flood-soaked walls: a water-soluble type, such as
sodium sulfate, and a water-insoluble type, calcium sulfate dihydrate
(gypsum). Several ways were devised to treat walls contaminated with
water-soluble salts. The authorities in Florence later requested that
Dr. Feller’s visit be extended for a total period of two months to permit
him to devote attention to an additional problem. Advice and assistance
were needed on the properties of synthetic resins that might be used
as adhesives and protective coatings in the work of preservation and
repair. The Research Project thus has continued in the past year, in
both practical and theoretical studies, to serve museum experts and
artists everywhere in providing new knowledge for the care and treat-
ment of museum collections.

The Research Project was responsible for the following publications
during the fiscal year:

FELLER, R. L. Problems in retouching: Chalking of intermediate
layers. Bull. Amer. Group-IIC, vol. 7, no. 1, pp. 32-34, 1966.

. First description of Dammar picture varnish translated. Bull.

Amer. Group-IIC, vol. 7, no. 1, pp. 8, 20, 1966.

. Polymer emulsions II. Bull. Amer. Group-IIC, vol. 6, no. 2,

ppt. 19. 1966.

. Rediscovery of the wheel. Color engineering, November-

December 1966, pp. 20-23.

. Standards of exposure to light II. Bull. Amer. Group-IIC,

vol. 7, no. 2 pp. 8, 32, 1967.

, and Pace, JEAN B. A solvatochromic dye as a convenient
indicator of the solubility parameter of petroleum solvents. Bull.
Amer. Group-IIC, vol. 7, no. 2, pp. 29-30, 1967.

Keiscu, B., and Levine, A. S. Sample preparation for low-level
Alpha-particle spectrometry of radium-226. Anal. Chem., vol. 38,
p. 1,969, 1966.

356 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967

; FELLER, R. L.; Levine, A. S.; and Epwarps, R. R. Dating
and authenticating works of art by measurement of natural alpha
emitters. Science, vol. 155, p. 1239. 1967.

Other Activities

To commemorate the 25th anniversary of the National Gallery
of Art, the Trustees directed that the Gallery publish an illustrated
history of its growth and activities. Accordingly, a 102-page volume
entitled The National Gallery of Art, a Twenty-Five Year Report has been
issued. The Report is divided into two parts. A narrative section touches
on the highlights of 25 years, and a tabular section summarizes sta-
tistical data through June 30, 1966. The National Geographic maga-
zine in its March 1967 issue, published an article, fully illustrated in
color, honoring the 25th anniversary of the Gallery. The text was
prepared by Director John Walker.

The Gallery provided facilities for the ceremony held by the Post
Office Department on November 17, 1966, in honor of the first day
of issue of a stamp in the Fine Arts series. The stamp is based on the
Mary Cassatt painting, The Boating Party, in the Chester Dale Collection
of the National Gallery.

To assist in securing help to restore the works of art damaged by
the November floods of the Arno, the National Gallery of Art, on the
evening of December 12, 1966, was made available for a program
organized by the Committee to Rescue Italian Art (CRIA), Washington
Area, of which Director John Walker is chairman and Assistant
Director J. Carter Brown is deputy chairman. The program consisted
of an illustrated eye-witness report given by Fred Licht, associate
professor of art history at Brown University; a concert of Italian music
performed by the National Gallery Orchestra under Richard Bales;
and the American premier of Franco Zeffirelli’s film Florence—Days of
Destruction, narrated by Richard Burton. |

Henry Beville, head of the photographic laboratory, and his assistants
processed 123,744 items which included negatives, prints, slides, color
transparencies, and color slides. The great increase over the previous
fiscal year (approximately double) resulted from the large number of
color slides made for the Gallery’s expanded Extension Services.

Audit of Private Funds

An audit of the private funds of the Gallery will be made for the
fiscal year ended June 30, 1967, by Price Waterhouse and Co., public
accountants. A report of the audit will be forwarded to the Gallery.
John F. Kennedy Center for the
Performing Arts

Rocer L. STEVENS
Chairman, Board of Trustees

* a JOHN F. KENNEDY CENTER has now reached that point in its
progress where each succeeding stage will mean increased activity.
Without any unforeseen major difficulties, the doors to the Center
should be open early in 1970. Within the coming year it is expected
that the appointments of the General and Artistic Directors will be
announced, program policy covering the actual scope, content, and
diversity of the Center’s programs and services will be established, and
the schedule of events for the opening season will begin to take shape.

It is reassuring to drive along the Rock Creek - Potomac Parkway
and the E Street Expressway and view not only the gaily decorated
segments of the fence surrounding the site but also the first element
of the superstructure beginning to take shape. The interest in the
Center, both in Washington and the rest of the Nation, that has and
is being expressed in many ways, will be accelerated and heightened
as major progress is made in the coming year. For no one now doubts
that, at long last, our Nation’s Capital will have appropriate facilities
for the performing arts in which to display the accomplishments of the
great artists of the theater, opera, music and dance, and a living
tribute to our 35th President as well.

Increasing activity in regard to the Center can best be appreciated
by the enthusiasm with which the various committees have pursued

357
358 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967

Construction progress. Top: In January 1967 the site had been cleared and
caissons were being placed to bedrock. By June (bottom) the substructure
foundation was rising and steel was being erected.

eimai Ca,
eae

oral

KENNEDY CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS 359

Marjorie Setlogelo, 9, shows her sister Mrs. Albert Mohale, wife of the Am-
bassador of Lesotho, and Roger L. Stevens the panel she painted for the Tom
Sawyer Project (see p. 371). Below: The entrance plaza (east front) of the
Kennedy Center. Architectural scale photograph by Checkman.

360 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967

their responsibilities and purposes. Many prominent foreign dignitaries
visiting Washington have requested that their official itinerary include
a visit to the Center’s site or offices. The Friends of the Kennedy
Center have also, particularly by means of their work on the Tom
Sawyer Project, focused considerable attention on the Center’s progress
and its national impact. Daily, individuals find their way to the
Center’s offices either to indicate their interest in becoming associated
with the Center, or to request information and material which will
assist them in generating support and enthusiasm for the Center’s aims
and aspirations. News clippings received by the Center from January
to November 1966 show that it was publicized in the Nation’s press
3,442 times, including feature-length articles with extensive photo
coverage in 65 American dailies and Sunday supplements and in 5
foreign periodicals. The three major television networks devoted cov-
erage to Center events, as have the Voice of America and the press
associations.

Organization

The need for a national cultural center in Washington has been
recognized since the city’s founding. When President Washington
selected Pierre L’Enfant to submit plans for the Nation’s Capital, it
was with the intention of making this new city both the Federal and
cultural capital of the United States. Subsequently, President John
Adams recognized the necessity of ensuring that the capital of the
fledgling Nation take its place with other capital cities in the western
world as the focal point of both government and the arts, and so in-
formed the Congress in November 1800.

More recently, support for appropriate facilities in Washington for
the performing arts has come from the past six Presidents. The first
positive action in this regard was taken by President Eisenhower in
September 1958 when, at his suggestion, Congress passed the National
Cultural Center Act (P.L. 85-874, 85th Cong., Sept. 2, 1958). Sub-
sequently, President Kennedy submitted legislation to extend the Act
an additional three years in order to provide additional time in which
to raise the necessary funds. On January 23, 1964, President Johnson
signed into law a bipartisan measure designating the National Cul-
tural Center as the sole official memorial in the Nation’s Capital to
President Kennedy, renaming it the John F. Kennedy Center for the
Performing Arts, and authorizing $15.5 million in matching Federal
funds (P.L. 88-260). This Act also granted the Center’s Trustees the
authority to issue revenue bonds to the Secretary of the Treasury,
payable from revenues accruing to the Board, to a value not greater
KENNEDY CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS 361

than $15.4 million, this sum to be used for the construction of the
1,600-car underground parking facilities.

BOARD OF TRUSTEES

Pursuant to the John F. Kennedy Center Act, the Board of Trustees
is made up of 15 members who serve ex-officio, and 30 general members.

During the past year the terms of six general Trustees expired:
Richard Adler, Ralph Bunche, Richard Reynolds, Arthur Schlesinger,
Jr., Roger L. Stevens, and Robert Woodruff.

Richard Adler, Arthur Schlesinger, Jr., and Roger L. Stevens,
Chairman, were reappointed to new 10-year terms.

To replace Ralph Bunche, Richard Reynolds, and Robert Woodruff,
the President appointed Ralph Ellison, the writer and _ lecturer,
presently teaching at Columbia University in New York City and
recipient of the 1952 National Book Award for Invisible Man; Robert
Lehman, partner in Lehman Brothers of New York City (investment
bankers), director of 20th Century - Fox Film Corporation and of
General Foods Corporation, and a member of the Advisory Committee
of the Institute of Fine Arts; and Jack Valenti, former Special Assistant
to the President and currently president of the Motion Picture Asso-
ciation of America.

To fill the vacancy left by the resignation, March 17, 1966, of Ernest
R. Breech, the President appointed Mr. Robert I. Millonzi of Buffalo,
senior partner in the law firm of Diebold & Millonzi and a Commis-
sioner of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission
during 1952 and 1953. Mr. Millonzi’s term will expire on Septem-
ber 1, 1968.

Two changes occurred among the ex-officio Trustees. The new
Congressional members of the Board are Senator Charles Percy of
Illinois, appointed to replace Senator Leverett Saltonstall of Massa-
chusetts, who chose not to run for re-election, and Representative
Peter H. B. Frelinghuysen of New Jersey, to replace the Honorable
Charlotte Reid of Illinois.

At the annual meeting of the Board of Trustees on February 28,
1967, the following officers were elected:

Roger L. Stevens, Chairman

Robert O. Anderson, Vice Chairman
Sol M. Linowitz, Vice Chairman
Ralph E. Becker, General Counsel
Daniel W. Bell, Treasurer

K. LeMoyne Billings, Secretary

Philip J. Mullin, Assistant Secretary
and Administrative Officer

Kenneth Birgfeld, Assistant Treasurer

Paul J. Bisset, Assistant Treasurer

Herbert D. Lawson, Assistant Treas-
urer
362 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967 |

|

The Bufalini quarry near Carrara, Italy, from which comes much of the ex-
terior marble for the Kennedy Center.
KENNEDY CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS 363

Top: First shipment arrives in Bal-
timore, November 1966. Middle:
Presentation ceremony, December 8,
Roger L. Stevens (standing) and
Ambassador Fenoaltea of Italy.
Below: They inspect the first marble
block.

364 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967

Under the bylaws the following officers continue to serve as members
of the Executive Committee:
Roger L. Stevens, Chairman Daniel W. Bell, Treasurer
Robert O. Anderson, Vice Chairman  K. LeMoyne Billings, Secretary
Sol M. Linowitz, Vice Chairman Ralph E. Becker, General Counsel
Secretary of the Smithsonian, S. Dillon Ripley
Chairman of the Commission of Fine Arts, William Walton

From the Board the Chairman reappointed to the Executive Com-
mittee the following persons, who are presently serving:

Charles Frankel

George B. Hartzog, Jr.
Mrs. John F. Kennedy
Mrs. Albert D. Lasker

In addition, Jack Valenti was designated to fill one of two remaining

Erich Leinsdorf

Mrs. Jouett Shouse

Mrs. Jean Kennedy Smith
Walter N. Tobriner

vacancies on the Executive Committee.

At the present time the membership of the Board of Trustees of

the John F. Kennedy Center is as follows:

Richard Adler

Howard F. Ahmanson
Floyd D. Akers

Robert O. Anderson
Ralph E. Becker

K. LeMoyne Billings
Mrs. Thomas W. Braden
Edgar M. Bronfman
Mrs. George R. Brown
Joseph S. Clark

Ralph W. Ellison

Mr. Justice Fortas
Charles Frankel

Peter H. B. Frelinghuysen
J. William Fulbright
John W. Gardner
Mrs. George A. Garrett
Leonard H. Goldenson
George B. Hartzog, Jr.
Harold Howe II
Robert F. Kennedy
Mrs. Albert D. Lasker
Robert Lehman

Mrs. Lyndon B. Johnson, Mrs. John F. Kennedy, and Mrs. Dwight
D. Eisenhower continue to serve as honorary co-chairmen of the Center.

Erich Leinsdorf

Sol M. Linowitz
George Meany

Robert I. Millonzi

L. Quincy Mumford
Edwin W. Pauley
Arthur Penn

Charles Percy

Frank H. Ricketson, Jr.
S. Dillon Ripley II
Richard Rodgers
Arthur Schlesinger, Jr.
Mrs. Jouett Shouse
Mrs. Stephen E. Smith
Roger L. Stevens
Frank Thompson, Jr.
Walter N. Tobriner
Jack Valenti

William Walton
William J. Waters, Jr.
Edwin L. Weisl, Sr.
James C. Wright, Jr.
KENNEDY CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS 365

L. Corrin Strong

The Chairman, the Board of Trustees, and all individuals who
have been active in the Center’s progress since its inception, were
deeply grieved by the passing, on September 9, 1966, of Ambassador
L. Corrin Strong, Chairman Emeritus of the Center. From the date
of his appointment in 1958 by President Eisenhower until late in
1961, Ambassador Strong had been the guiding force of the Center
and almost single-handedly supported the National Cultural Center
in its early and difficult years. In 1964 his resignation as Trustee
and Vice Chairman, because of failing health, was reluctantly ac-
cepted by President Johnson. He was then elected Chairman Emeritus
by the Trustees, in which position he continued to serve until his
death.

On accepting his resignation, President Johnson on February 1,
1965, wrote: “The John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing
Arts has become a reality because of your steadfast devotion to the
ideal and to the task. Without your perseverance, leadership and
generous financial aid the Center might have remained a vision.”

At a meeting on February 28, 1967, the Board of Trustees adopted
the resolution of the Executive Committee, expressing profound regret
at the death of the first Chairman of the National Cultural Center,
whose leadership and generous contribution of time, energy, and
money were largely responsible for bringing the Center through the
initial and vital stages of development. The Chairman expressed the
sentiments of those who knew Ambassador Strong, saying that “as
long as the Center stands on the banks of the Potomac and fulfills
its mission, it will also serve as a proud tribute to an outstanding
American—Corrin Strong.”

Mr. Strong was born in Tacoma, Washington, in 1892, and lived for
a time in Alaska. He graduated from Yale University in 1916, and
served in the American Ambulance Corps and as a lieutenant of
French Artillery 1917-1918. After working with the Guarantee Trust
Company of New York, he joined the National Savings and Trust
Company of Washington. He organized and established the Hattie M.
Strong Foundation and for many years served as its President. From
1939 to 1941 Mr. Strong served as President of the Washington National
Symphony. Ten months before Pearl Harbor he joined the United
States Army and served in the Ordnance Department with the rank of
major. For four years he served as chief liaison officer, International
Division, Army Service Forces, with the rank of colonel. In 1942 he
was sent on a special mission to China under White House priority. His
366 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967

war service won him the American Legion of Merit. He was also the
recipient of six foreign decorations. In 1953 President Eisenhower ap-
pointed him Ambassador to Norway. Mr. Strong was a member of
the Board of Directors of the National Savings and Trust Company for
many years and a Trustee of George Washington University, where he
guided a successful building program.

Gifts and Presentations

Previous foreign gifts to the Center include a Waterford glass
chandelier from the Government of Ireland, presently in the process
of fabrication; sculptured bronze panels for the two main entrance-
ways to the Center, from the Government of Germany, in the initial
stages of casting; the eleven chandeliers for the Concert Hall, from the
Government of Norway, also in the process of fabrication. New de-
signs for the furniture for the Grand Foyer, from the Government of
Denmark, were recently unveiled.

On December 8, 1966, a ceremony was held at the Center’s site for
the presentation of the first shipment of marble from the Government
of Italy. A presentation was made by Ambassador Sergio Fenoaltea
of Italy and the Chairman accepted the marble on behalf of the
Center. During the ceremony a crate of marble weighing 900 pounds
was opened and presented to Mr. Stevens by Ambassador Fenoaltea.
The Italian Government is donating over 3,000 tons of white marble to
the Center, which will meet the entire construction requirements.
This gift, valued at more than $1.1 million, was formally pledged by
Italian President Segni when President Kennedy visited Italy in 1963.
The quarrying of the marble in the vicinity of Carrara has been com-
pleted. Some of it was taken from the quarries from which Michelangelo
obtained his marble. Three companies—Bufalini, Montecatini, and
Henraux—are supplying the marble, which is being cut according to
architectural specification before being crated and sent to Leghorn for
export. American Export Isbrandtsen Lines is transporting all of the
marble from Italy to Baltimore at no cost to the Kennedy Center.

On January 13, 1967, Ambassador Hubert de Besche of Sweden
announced that his Government would present 14 crystal chandeliers
to the Kennedy Center, to be placed in the Grand Foyer. These
chandeliers, valued at over $200,000, will be fabricated by Orrefors
Glasbruk, Orrefors, Sweden. Carl Fagerlund, Orrefors’ specialist in
glass lighting fixtures, is designing the chandeliers in cooperation with
the Center’s architect.
KENNEDY CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS 367

On Thursday, February 9, Teruo Hachiya, Executive Director of
the America-Japan Society of Tokyo, presented Japan’s gift of a red-
and-gold silk stage curtain to the Center, in a ceremony at the Embassy
of Japan. The Chairman accepted the gift on behalf of the Center.
This gift was made possible by an appropriation of the Japanese
Government and contributions from private industry and individuals
in Japan, which were raised by the America-Japan Society of Tokyo.
The gift is valued at over $200,000. The curtain itself, which measures
47’ x 117’, is presently being stored in McLean, Virginia. At the cere-
mony an unexpected but exceedingly interesting and appreciated
added attraction was the showing of a color movie depicting the
making of the red-and-gold silk curtain by the Nishijin Textile
Company of Kyoto.

Discussions and negotiations are continuing with a number of other
countries who have expressed an interest in the Center.

Friends of the Kennedy Center

The Friends of the Kennedy Center, which a year ago had fewer
than 50 members, mostly from the Washington area, now has nearly
800 members throughout the country; 35 States and the District of
Columbia are represented in the membership.

The Friends of the Kennedy Center held their first annual meeting
in Washington on Thursday and Friday, May 18 and 19. Over 200
members from 22 States and the District of Columbia attended the
two-day event. The meeting began at the White House when Mrs.
Lyndon B. Johnson, honorary chairman of the Kennedy Center,
and a member of the Friends, received the Friends of the Kennedy
Center at tea. Following the White House reception members met
at the Kennedy Center site for a presentation of ten new Tom Sawyer
panels, each painted by children from a different State.

Roger L. Stevens, Chairman of the Board of Trustees, spoke to the
Friends about the future of the Kennedy Center. Composer William
Schuman, President of New York’s Lincoln Center for the Performing
Arts, gave the principal address of the gathering. And Jack Valenti,
President of the Motion Picture Association of America, introduced
an afternoon program of short, experimental films by leading directors,
presented by Janus Films.

New officers of the Friends, announced at the meeting, are Mrs.
Polk Guest, Chairman; Mrs. Norris A. Dodson, Jr., and George
Stevens, Jr., Vice Chairmen; Murray Preston, Treasurer; Mrs.
David Ginsburg, Secretary; and Mrs. Frank G. Wisner, Member
at Large.
SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967:

368

*s magnificent gift to the Kennedy

showing Sweden

b

Model of the Grand Foyer

Center—fourteen crystal chandeliers to be fabricated by Orrefors Glasbruk,
Sweden.

Orrefors,

KENNEDY CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS 369

In Kyoto, ancient weaving center of Japan, dyeing the silk for Japan’s gift
of a stage curtain for the Opera House. Curtain (below) is being pieced
together by skilled craftsmen.

370 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967

Regional Chairmen have been named as follows: Mid-Atlantic,
Mrs. Charles W. Engelhard, Far Hills, N.J.; South Atlantic, Mrs.
Agnes H. Bahnson, Jr., Winston-Salem, N.C.; Gulf States, Mrs.
Ellis Cooper, Laurel, Miss.; Midwest, Mrs. James H. Douglas, Jr.,
Lake Forest, Ill.; Rocky Mountain States, Mrs. James H. Smith,
Jr., Aspen, Colo.; and Pacific Coast, Mrs. John A. McCone, San Ma-
rino, Calif.

Special Projects and Events

John F. Kennedy: Years of Lightning—Day of Drums was released to
commercial film theaters throughout the country beginning in early
fall. The film was voted the first documentary feature award of the
Independent Film Importers and Distributors of America for 1966—
1967. Negotiations are presently under way for subsequent distribution
of the film to educational and charitable organizations and other
non-profit groups. This will entail the processing of 16-mm. prints.

In May 1963 RCA Records distributed four recordings, all profits
from which were to accrue to the benefit of the Center, consisting
of various selections by the United States Army, Air Force, Marine,
and Navy Bands. These records were and continue to be extremely
popular items in the RCA Record catalog. Recently RCA Records
agreed to re-issue a portion of the United States Marine Band per-
formances in connection with a program of “‘Reader’s Digest’ to
distribute outstanding recordings on a special club plan. As a result
of negotiations with the Company, RCA agreed to make the Center
a gift of $10,000 for this reproduction. Royalties will be paid on the
re-issue, in accordance with the original contract.

On July 17, 1966, the Alabama State Society presented at Gallaudet
Auditorium for the benefit of the Center the musical extravaganza
Stars Fell on Alabama. Conceived, executed, and produced by Ala-
bamians, it featured talented natives of that State. From the proceeds,
the Alabama State Society expects to endow a $10,000 box in one of
the Center’s halls. At the same time, the Society hopes to encourage
and stimulate other States to make similar contributions to the Center’s
needs.

The John Philip Sousa Memorial Committee of the American
Bandmasters Association has to date raised 75 percent of its gift of
$100,000 for the endowment of the stage and acoustical sound re-
quirements in the Concert Hall. It is expected that within the next
year the full amount will have been presented to the Center.

The Metropolitan Opera National Company, co-sponsored by the
Kennedy Center and the Metropolitan Opera Association, completed
KENNEDY CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS 371

its inaugural tour on June 12, 1966, in Guadalajara, Mexico. Because
of the nature of the Center’s agreement with the Metropolitan Opera
Association in assisting the Company, all financial commitments of
the Center were completed in the first season and there were no
continuing financial obligations during its second year, which began
on September 15, 1966, again at the Clowes Auditorium in Indian-
apolis. This past year the Company was booked into 72 cities with
a repertory consisting of Puccini’s La Boheme, Verdi’s La Traviata,
Mozart’s Marriage of Figaro and Britten’s Rape of Lucretia. All these
operas were performed in English, although the first two were also
sung in Italian.

Because of the parent company’s financial difficulties, the Metro-
politan Opera National Company was temporarily disbanded and
its tour for the 1967-1968 season cancelled. However, the American
National Opera Company, under the direction of Sarah Caldwell,
on an expanded performance schedule will, if requested and where
possible, fill bookings already made for the proposed 1967-1968
National Company tour.

As the United States’ official contribution to the 14th Joint Confer-
ence of UNESCO, which opened in Paris on November 9, 1966, an
exhibit by the Kennedy Center was chosen. Full-scale models, interior
and exterior color renderings and photographs of the Center comprised
the exhibit. A new, large model of the Center was constructed, in-
corporating the latest revisions in the blueprints and interior electrical
lighting. The response, not only in Paris but in other European capitals
as well, was so enthusiastic that on the conclusion of its showing in
the French capital the display was sent to London, where it was housed
in the Embassy on Grosvenor Square, and open to the public for a
two-week period. Subsequently the renderings and photographs were
sent on a tour of American Embassies in other Western European
capitals. Eventually it is hoped that this exhibit can be permanently
displayed at the site of the Center.

The wooden fence surrounding the Kennedy Center site consists of
250 eight-foot square panels, Last summer 18 of these panels were
decorated by children in the District of Columbia’s Widening
Horizons Project, under the supervision of Roger Selby, Curator
of Education at the Corcoran Gallery of Art. So successful and so
widely praised were these efforts, termed the Tom Sawyer Project,
that the Friends of the Kennedy Center accepted the task of expanding
this undertaking and, under the Chairmanship of Senator Saltonstall,
the Governors of all 50 States and all the territories and trusts were
invited to designate one or more young students to paint one such
panel depicting the interests and resources and history of their native
372 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967

~*~

President and Mrs. Zalman Shazar of Israel, during visit to
Kennedy Center offices, are shown a model of the Center by
Roger L. Stevens.

homes. The Embassies in Washington were similarly invited to
participate in this endeavor. To date, including the 18 painted last
summer, 65 segments of the fence have been decorated with paintings
representing 25 States, the District of Columbia, 5 trust territories,
and 16 foreign countries.

Construction Progress

Colonel William F. Powers, formerly Engineering Vice President of
Lincoln Center in New York, began his full-time duties with the Center
as Executive Director of Engineering on October 1, 1966. Colonel
Powers,was named by the General Services Administration as special
assistant to the Contracting Officer and as Project Director for the
KENNEDY CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS 373

Center’s construction. By this means, direct organizational relationships
between the Center and GSA have been established. Colonel Powers
continues to serve as Executive Director of Engineering in those areas
of responsibility reserved to the Center and the Trustees.

The standing committee formerly known as the JFK Center/GSA
Liaison Committee was renamed the Building Committee. It is made
up of five Trustees: the Chairman, Mrs. Shouse,.S. Dillon Ripley,
George B. Hartzog, Jr., and Ralph Becker. Mr. Mullin and Colonel
Powers serve as staff representatives and GSA is represented by the
Commissioner of the Public Buildings Service, William Schmidt, and
his Deputy, Robert Foster.

To appreciate fully some of the problems encountered in negotiating
construction contracts and subcontracts, it is well to recall the history
of the Center’s design. The first blueprints submitted in 1959 by the
architect, Edward Durell Stone, envisioned a Center on such a scale
that the cost estimates at that time were $75 million. Subsequently the
Trustees, after consultation with Presidents Eisenhower and Kennedy,
decided that this concept was not practicable, since funds of this mag-
nitude could not be raised on a voluntary basis from the general public.
Accordingly, the architect was requested to provide an alternative
design, which was unveiled in September 1962 to general and en-
thusiastic acceptance and approval. For reasons of economy and effi-
ciency Mr. Stone recommended that all the halls be placed under one
roof to afford savings in land usage, building materials, utilities, and
managerial and maintenance personnel. This new concept was then
estimated to cost $30 million, without the parking substructure.

Since that time, this cost figure has been maintained as the amount
necessary for the construction of the Center. When final detailed
plans and specifications were approved for the letting of bids for the
general contract in July 1966, however, it became apparent that the
rising costs of materials and labor would substantially increase this
estimate.

Firms selected on the basis of reliability and favorable experience
with similar projects were invited in June 1966 to submit bids for the
general construction contract. The solicitation of bids on a selective
basis was done with the approval of the Comptroller General of the
United States and the concurrence of the Senate and House Com-
mittees on Public Works and Appropriations. After the bids were
received and evaluated, the John McShain Company of Philadelphia
was awarded the general construction contract on July 22, 1966. The
McShain bid of $249,000 for his fee, including all on-site and off-site
supervision and overhead during construction, is about one-sixth of
what a normal bid would be. Mr. McShain preferred to undertake
374 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967

this job as a public service rather than a normal profit-making business
venture.

In addition to the general contract, contracts for demolition and
site clearance, and for excavation and relocation of Rock Creek - Poto-
mac Parkway, were completed and by year’s end the general contrac-
tor had completed the excavation as well as the pouring of most of
the concrete caissons, some of which run as deep as 27 feet.

When the first subcontract bids were opened it became apparent
that actual costs, based on the materials required and increases in the
costs of building construction generally, were out of line with the
original cost estimates. Meetings were immediately arranged between
Center officers, the Commissioner of Public Buildings Service, and
subsequently with the GSA Administrator. The outcome was assump-
tion by GSA of full responsibility for preparing a revised cost estimate
and ascertaining the extent to which the prior estimates may have been
understated. After their reports were received a new procedure for
reviewing bids was developed, consisting of review and negotiation by
a team representing the Center, McShain, and GSA.

Subsequently, a contract was awarded on February 24, 1967, to
Bethlehem Steel for the steel requirements. Their low bid was
$7,225,000.

In addition, the following subcontract awards were made:

Electrical—a joint venture of E. C. Ernst Inc. of Washington,
D.C., and Fischbach & Moore of New York City, in the amount of
$5,950,000.

Mechanical—awarded to the low bidder, Pierce Associates of
Alexandria, on a bid of $7,375,000.

Steel testing—Gulick-Henderson Laboratories, Inc., of New York,
in the amount of $56,000.

Reinforcing steel placement—C. J. Roberts Inc., of Springfield,
Virginia, at a price of $390,000.

Fabrication of architectural cast stone—Eastern Schokcrete Corpo-
ration, New York, in the amount of $667,000.

Erection of architectural cast stone—Costello Company, Inc., of
Cumberland, Maryland, in the amount of $230,000.

At year’s end 75 percent of the paving marble procured from
Bufalini had been received, inspected, and stored at the Naval Re-
search Laboratory at Anacostia. The Henraux marble to be used for
the exterior facing is expected to begin arriving sometime around the
end of July, and the marble for the interior walls will probably begin
to arrive in late summer. All this marble is included in the gift from
the Government of Italy.
Joseph H. Hirshhorn

Museum and Sculpture Garden

ABRAM LERNER, Director

O* MAY 17, 1966, THE PRESIDENT REQUESTED that Congress enact
legislation to authorize acceptance of the Hirshhorn Collection
of sculpture and paintings. In his message to the Congress, the President
recalled the great tradition of private contributions which have
enriched the cultural life of this city. He recalled James Smithson’s
bequest which led to the establishment of the Smithsonian in 1846;
William Corcoran’s founding of his art gallery in 1859; Charles Freer’s
donation of his collection and the gallery which opened in 1922; the
gift of Andrew Mellon, which was accepted in 1937; and now the gift
of Joseph Hirshhorn of his collection of contemporary art.

This gift of nearly 5,000 paintings and drawings and over 1,500
pieces of sculpture has been conservatively valued at $25,000,000 and
is undoubtedly worth much more. Mr. Hirshhorn also gave $1,000,000
for future acquisitions for the collection. The terms of the gift required
that the Smithsonian Institution obtain legislation and appropriations
for the construction and operation of a museum and garden of sculpture
on the Mall, and that the necessary appropriation be obtained before
the end of the 90th Congress.

The Congress responded favorably to the President’s request.
By the Act of November 7, 1966 (P.L. 89-788, 89th Cong., S. 3389),
it provided a site on the Mall and provided statutory authority for the

375
376 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967

appropriation of construction and operating funds. In a companion
Act, approved on November 2, 1966, the Congress authorized the
Secretary of the Army to construct an addition to the existing Armed
Forces Institute of Pathology at Walter Reed Army Medical Center
to house the Medical Museum and medical research unit now housed
in the existing building at 7th Street and Independence Avenue, on
the site of the Hirshhorn Museum.

The Congress also provided preliminary planning funds and appro-
priated to the Smithsonian $803,000 for the preparation of contract
drawings and specifications for the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture
Garden. Construction funds will be sought in the Smithsonian’s
request for appropriations for the next fiscal year.

The authorizing legislation appropriated to the Smithsonian Institu-
tion the Mall area between 7th and 9th Streets and Independence
Avenue and Jefferson Drive as the permanent site of the Museum.
The Act also made available to the Institution as the permanent site
of the Sculpture Garden, the area bounded by 7th Street, 9th Street,
Jefferson Drive, and Madison Drive. The legislation provided further
that the Smithsonian shall cooperate with the Secretary of the Interior
so that the development and use of the Sculpture Garden is consistent
with the open space concept of the Mall, for which the Secretary of
the Interior is responsible, and with related developments regarding
underground garages and street development. And the Act authorized
an appropriation not to exceed $15,000,000 for the planning and
construction of the Museum and Sculpture Garden.

The 12-acre Mall site thus provided is situated in the midst of the
Smithsonian complex of museums and art galleries in a location most
convenient to the millions of visitors who yearly crowd‘the Mall. The
site is the only remaining one of appropriate size and location on the
Mall for the proper display of this large collection of sculpture and
painting. It lies within the Mall area contemplated by the Act of
May 17, 1938, as the site for a Smithsonian gallery of art. And, it should
be noted, the master plan for the Mall recently developed for the Secre-
tary of the Interior, who is charged with the development of the Mall
as a public park, visualizes the erection of a building such as the
Hirshhorn Museum for public use and interest at this location.

The appointment of Abram Lerner as Director of the Joseph H.
Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden was made on April 1, 1967.
He has served as curator of the Hirshhorn Collection for the past ten
years. Secretary Ripley has said: ‘That the Hirshhorn Collection is a
monument to contemporary American art and a unique dossier of
European moderns is, in large measure, a tribute to Abram Lerner, who
influenced its growth and continuity.”
HIRSHHORN MUSEUM AND SCULPTURE GARDEN 377

Architect’s model and detail sketch of Joseph H. Hirshhorn Museum, showing
its relation to Smithsonian’s Arts and Industries building (right) and Federal
Aviation Agency building (rear) across Independence Avenue. Sunken
Sculpture Garden extends across center strip of Mall.

yf

Stil

i TAH Re aaa
| ns ti
| ate uy
HIG ke: | Se
ames ULF

378 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967

The selection of Gordon Bunshaft of the architectural firm of Skid-
more, Owings and Merrill as architect of the Joseph H. Hirshhorn
Museum and Sculpture Garden was made jointly by the Smithsonian
and Joseph H. Hirshhorn.

The preliminary design is presently underway. The design concept
was completed and was presented to the Commission of Fine Arts,
and to the National Capital Planning Commission.*

*The concept was approved by the Commission of Fine Arts on July 13, 1967,
and by the National Capital Planning Commission on July 27, 1967.
Other Smithsonian Activities,

Offices, Programs, and Services
WA aaerihhiitale yaad

hye oe oe ae Gieesen Syeda! ru
Vie a * eA tia Rye It wel ow, er ava
poe . eaey Shey <ns 9 .
Ad pare They St
Lhe Se seiner Soe A ew
P ay < w G ;
dei ee rm :
iv: v = i r 7
f . t ‘ : m eat 7

[
foe |

VvIIG Din wus TS Aaa

=

United States National Museum

FRANK A. TAytor, Director

HE NATIONAL MUSEUM ACT OF 1966 has empowered the Director of

the United States National Museum to cooperate with museums
and their associations, to identify and study problems of concern to
museums, to publish reports of research on these problems, to train
museum personnel, to give advisory aid to museums requesting as-
sistance, and to prepare and publish manuals of museum practices.
Although no funds have been appropriated to implement the Museum
Act, which was approved and signed into law by President Lyndon B.
Johnson, October 15, 1966, a number of the activities of the Smith-
sonian in the past year relate to the purposes of the legislation.

Responding to repeated statements of the need for trained science-
museum technicians, the Smithsonian Institution proposed to share
the cost of training technicians. Three museums—the Los Angeles
County Museum of Natural History in California, The American
Museum of Natural History in New York, and the Field Museum of
Natural History in Illinois—generously agreed to join in the trial
project designed to produce nine trained technicians at the end of
the year of work training. The cooperating museums are recruiting
college graduates for training and have undertaken to provide in-
struction, and to absorb the administrative costs of the program.

In another cooperative project the American Association of Museums
is sharing publication costs with the Smithsonian and is providing the
editorial work to produce a revision of the widely needed manual
Museum Registration Methods by Dorothy Dudley, Irma Bezold, and
others.

381
382 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967—U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM

The returns from the questionnaire on museums and their educa-
tional programs, circulated jointly with the Office of Education and
the American Association of Museums, were processed for tabulation.
The information received from the returns will form the beginning of
an up-to-date documentation of the museum field.

The volume of requests received from museums for advice and aid
increased enormously after the passage of the Museum Act. Smith-
sonian staff members were requested to consult with museum directors
and their staffs on new programs, buildings, exhibits, and interpreta-
tion. Several spent substantial amounts of time at the requesting
museums advising on a variety of museum projects. In the eight months
subsequent to passage of the Act, inquiries were received at the rate of
about 100 a month. From every State and from more than 20 Nations
came requests for such assistance as reviewing programs and building
plans, advising on the scope and activities of museums proposed for
specific communities, suggesting sources of funding, predicting future
museum needs and orientation, and evaluating museum exhibits and
educational programs.

In cooperation with officers of the American Association of Museums
representations were made to Government agencies justifying direct
Federal aid for the construction of museum facilities. The basis of the
justification was the increased demands upon museums by educational
institutions stimulated by the Federal aid available to schools to take
advantage of museums as supplementary teaching centers and for the
use of museums for curriculum improvement and enrichment.

This cause was greatly advanced by the gracious and generous
letter which President Johnson addressed to Mr. Ripley as Chairman
of the Federal Council on the Arts and Humanities. This letter (see
p. 14) recognizes museums as precious cultural and educational re-
sources, and asks for recommendations of ways to support and strengthen
them.

At the request of the Minister of Education of the Republic of Korea
and of the Director of the Pacific Science Board of the National
Academy of Sciences, the Smithsonian participated in the Symposium
on a Korean National Science Museum and supported the attendance
at Seoul of a number of museum professionals from other institutions.
The report of the Symposium recommended a planning study for which
the Korean Government has since appropriated the equivalent of
$25,000. A newly formed foundation, The American Friends of the
Korean National Science Cultural Center, under the direction of
Joseph A. Patterson, former Director of the American Association of
Museums, is endeavoring to obtain the rest of the support required
for the study.
TRAVELING EXHIBITION SERVICE 383

A year’s use of the series of teaching exhibits on the elementary
physics of light, for 4th- to 6th-grade students, was completed by
schools in the Fairfax County, Virginia, school system. The results ob-
tained were universally approved by the teachers and principals who
observed them. Side effects of the program included increased self-
reliance of students who had had their first learning experiences as
individuals away from the classroom, and the stimulation of determined
nonreaders to learn to read. The school system of Prince William
County, Virginia, has requested the exhibits for next year and has
undertaken to provide an evaluation test.

Notable progress was made in the long-continuing effort of the
Smithsonian and other institutions and individuals to effect United
States membership in the International Center for the Study of the
Preservation and the Restoration of Cultural Property (an international
organization of member states). The Department of State indicated that
it will support U.S. membership in the Center and suggested that the
Smithsonian undertake to obtain the authorizing legislation. To this
end the Smithsonian held a number of meetings of representatives of
the interested institutions and agencies that have indicated a uniform
support of U.S. membership. Both the United States and the Center
would gain from such membership and the mammoth worldwide task
of preserving cultural objects and paintings would be greatly aided by
stepping up research, training, consultation, and the dissemination of
knowledge of advances in scientific conservation.

TRAVELING EXHIBITION SERVICE

The Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service (SITES),
working from a broad base of history, science, photography, design,
and crafts, as well as the fine arts, endeavors to aid museums, libraries,
universities, and other educational institutions in the development of
their exhibition programs. Its income is derived from rental fees
determined by the costs of preparing, mounting, and circulating the
exhibitions.

As listed below, the number of exhibitions has increased to 108. An
additional seven exhibitions were circulated to schools in the District
of Columbia. The National Collection of Fine Arts and SITES have
cooperated in providing seven exhibitions used in a grant program
from the Arts Advisory Committee of the D.C. Recreation Board,
which SITES administered in fiscal 1967, for a total of 23 showings.

Among the larger exhibitions, Art Treasures of Turkey opened in
June 1966 at the National Gallery of Art in Washington, has crossed
384 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967—U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM

Smithsonian Institution traveling exhibitions: Tunistan Mosatcs
viewed at the Museum of Natural History by teachers and
children of Project Headstart, from Arlington, Virginia.
Below: Living with Wood, installed in patio of U.S. Department
of Agriculture administration building.

TRAVELING EXHIBITION SERVICE 385

The Face of Chile, a special international exhibit, in the rotunda of the Museum
of Natural History, March 1967. Below: Preview in the Museum of History
and Technology of the traveling exhibition Victorian Needlework, a showing of
items selected from the division of textiles’ collections.

386 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967—U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM

the U.S. twice, and is currently at San Francisco. The catalog of this
great exhibition is being reprinted by the Smithsonian Institution
Press.

The exhibition Jslamic Art from the Collection of Edwin Binney 3rd is
fully booked through 1968 and its catalog was selected by the Associa-
tion of American University Presses as one of the top 25 publications
of the year. Other exhibition catalogs published in 1967 are Henry
Moore, Paintings and Drawings by Elihu Vedder, Italian Architectural Draw-
ings, and in May 1967, Tunisian Mosatcs.

Offerings of exhibitions by other museums have increased. The most
notable is the loan of Sources for Tomorrow: Paintings from the Michener
Foundation Collection by the Allentown Art Museum, the catalog for
which was prepared by the Director, Richard Hirsch. Other offerings
have been from the Toledo Museum of Art, American Museum of
Natural History, American Philosophical Society Library, Museum of
Contemporary Crafts, Addison Gallery of American Art, Los Angeles
County Museum of Art, and the Paine Art Center and Arboretum.

Quickening interest of other Smithsonian groups has contributed
five exhibitions to the SITES program, and two more are in prepara-
tion. The Office of International Activities has given exceptional aid in
connection with the exhibition Tunisian Mosaics, opened in June 1967.
This latter is a prime example of a Smithsonian cooperative effort that
involved a broad range of offices and agencies of the Institution.

Many requests have been received from foreign countries for exhibi-
tions to be sent on an exchange basis, and means are being sought to
implement this aspect of the program. Meanwhile SITES continues to
receive from abroad exhibitions for tour in the United States and
Canada. Of 88 listed in the catalog, 38 are in this category, including
Art Treasures of Turkey, Henry Moore, and Tunisian Mosaics. Foreign
visitors, many of them sent from the Council on Leaders and Specialists,
come to study SITES procedures for circulating its exhibits.

The first exhibition from Yugoslavia in conjunction with a proposed
five-year plan has arrived and the second has been 'shipped. One
Danish and one Finnish exhibition are in preparation. These are the
result of a visit by the Chief of the Service to Europe in the summer of
1966, prompted by an invitation extended by the Yugoslav Commission
for Cultural relations with Foreign Countries.

Exhibitions carried over from prior years number 75. SITES initiated
33 new shows, dispersed 21, and negotiated for 21 additional for book-
ings next year.
TRAVELING EXHIBITION SERVICE 387

Exhibitions Initiated in 1967
Painting and Sculpture

Islamic Art from the Collection of Edwin Binney 3rd; Henry Moore; Paintings
and Drawings by Elihu Vedder; Sketches by Frederic Edwin Church; Sources
for Tomorrow: 50 Paintings from the Michener Foundation Collection;
Jewish Marriage Contracts; Naive Art from Haiti; Tunisian Mosaics.

Drawings and Prints

Canaletto Etchings; Italian Architectural Drawings; Graphic Art from
Yugoslavia; Graphics 67: Italy; Three Swedish Printmakers; Twentieth
Print National.

Design and Crafts

Albers: Interaction of Color; Cape Dorset: The Arts of an Eskimo Community;
Ceramic Arts USA; Contemporary Rugs from Argentina; Empire Profile;
Fiber, Fabric, and Form; German Posters; Living with Wood; Victorian
Needlework; Color and Light in Painting.

History
The Explorer’s New Zealand; The People’s Choice.

Childrens’ Art

Les Enfants de Paris; Paintings by Children of Many Lands; Things and
Other Things; Tokyo Children Look at the Olympic Games.

Natural History and Science

Animal Behavior; Minerals Magnified; Prehistoric Paintings of France and
Spain.

Exhibitions Continued From Prior Years

1965-66: Art in Science; Eyewitness to Space; Art Treasures of Turkey;
Pre-Columbian Gold from Peru; Action-Reaction; Contemporary African
Printmakers; Contemporary Dutch Graphics; Diirer and His Time; Mirror of
the Artist; Polish Graphic Art; Six Danish Graphic Artists; The World of
William Hogarth; Art in Urban Architecture; Early Chicago Architecture;
Calligraphy in Islamic Textiles; Folk Toys from Japan; Glass from Czecho-
slovakia; Jazz Posters; Posters from Denmark; Rugs from the McMullan
Collection; Early Monuments and Architecture of Ireland; Danish Children
Illustrate Hans Christian Andersen; Embroideries by Children of Chijnaya;
Ghanian Textiles; Museum Impressions; The Preservation of Abu Simbel;
Gentle Wilderness: The Sierra Nevada; Charles H. Currier: Victorian
Photographer; New Names in Latin American Art.
388 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967—U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM

1964-65: Watercolors by Pop Hart; Modern Watercolors from Sweden;
The Art of the Yoruba; Contemporary American Drawings II; William
Blake: Poet, Printer, Prophet; Bridges, ‘Tunnels, and Waterworks; Contempo-
rary Fine Presses in America; Eskimo Graphic Art III; The Fabulous Decade;
Kokoschka: King Lear, Apulian Journey, Hellas; Prints from the Mourlot
Press; Pier Luigi Nervi; American Costumes; American Furniture; Masters of
Ballet Design; The American Flag; Be My Guest!; Brass Rubbings from
England; World Fairs; National High School Prints; Paintings by Mexican
Children; Paintings and Pastels by Children of Tokyo; Ancient Rock Paintings
and Engravings; Colors and Patterns in the Animal Kingdom; the Stonecrop
Family: Variations on a Pattern; The Color of Water.

1963-64: Alvar Aalto; Contemporary American Landscape Architecture;
Birds of Asia; Antonio Frasconi 1952-63; Hearts and Flowers; The Nile;
Religious Themes by Old Masters; Eero Saarinen; Swiss Posters.

1962-63: Craftsmen of the City; Historic Annapolis; Paintings by Young
Africans.

1961-62: Physics and Painting; UNESCO Watercolor Reproductions; Con-
temporary Italian Drawings (2 shows); The Face of Viet Nam; Le Corbusier;
Robert Capa: Images of War.

1960-61: Image of Physics.

THE CONSERVATION-ANALYTICAL
LABORATORY

The new chief of the Conservation-Analytical Laboratory, Robert M.
Organ, entered upon his assignment at the close of the year. Mr.
Organ, who has had a distinguished career in the field of conservation
and the analysis of museum objects, came to the Smithsonian Institu-
tion from the Royal Ontario Museum. Before going to Ontario he
was, from 1951 to 1965, chief experimental officer of the Research
Laboratory of the British Museum. The Smithsonian is fortunate to
have a man of his experience and ability as head of its conservation and
analysis programs.

Within the limitations of the available manpower the scientific
effort of the laboratory has been directed toward using and improving
facilities along the lines reported in 1966. In particular, X-ray dif-
fraction techniques have been used in the examination of numerous
samples of pigments and in the authentication of coins. The large
number of bronze objects from Southern Arabia examined by X-ray
fluorescence analysis, using a semi-quantitative method, have also
been examined in cross section, and in order to facilitate metallo-
graphic work of this nature a Vickers projection microscope has been
installed. An ultraviolet emission spectrograph is being brought into
service, initially for the rapid semi-quantitative analysis of a wide
- OFFICE OF EXHIBITS 389

range of materials made available in the form of small samples. And
the infra-red spectrometer continues to be useful in such tasks as the
identification of synthetic materials proposed for use in storage, in-
volving prolonged contact with museum objects.

In the normal course of estimating the accuracy of the quantitative
analytical techniques employed, a comparison has been made between
the results of wet-chemical and of X-ray fluorescence analysis of
ancient bronzes having widely different compositions. The two methods
appear to yield results of similar precision and can therefore prove
equally acceptable to archeologists in need of analyses.

Looking ahead toward the future when local irradiation facilities
may become available, considerable effort has been put into develop-
ment of neutron activation analysis for trace elements in potsherds.
A program of analysis is in progress for investigating possible dif-
ferences in composition between products of various potteries in North
Devon which were exported to America in the 17th century.

The scientific apparatus, however, has not been employed solely in
laboratory testing. When a Flemish inlaid and painted wooden chest
previously conditioned to a relative humidity approximating to 50
percent had to be exhibited in the un-airconditioned Great Hall of
the Smithsonian building, an especially conditioned case was devised.
For the case, the laboratory prepared ballasting material that would
maintain steady conditions in order to minimize cracking and loss of
inlay or paint.

The staff of the Conservation-Analytical Laboratory has numbered
four during the greater portion of the year, but the addition of two
technicians and the new chief has added considerably to its working
capacity. During the year some 90 requisitions for work involving
370 objects were received from 21 sources. Of these only about 15
were not completed at year’s end. One technician specializing in
objects made of paper treated about 150 small objects such as cur-
rency decrees, drawings, and a decorated paper sewing box, and has
restored about 100 photographs. Three large watercolors of the original
Smithsonian buildings were treated by this technician in a workshop
in Philadelphia as part of a training program.

OFFICE OF EXHIBITS

Under the direction of chief of exhibits John E. Anglim and assistant
chief Benjamin W. Lawless, the Office of Exhibits made notable contri-
butions to the Smithsonian’s public education and information objec-
tives as well as continuing in its role as pacesetter in the museum world
for the development and application of exhibition techniques.
390 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967—U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM

The Office, which designs, produces, and installs all permanent and
special exhibits in the Museums of History and Technology and Natural
History, also provides material assistance and consultation services
for other branches of the Smithsonian.

During the year the Office of Exhibits opened 6 new permanent
exhibition halls to the general public, completed supplementary
portions of 25 other permanent exhibition halls, and produced 29
temporary and special exhibits—some of major national and inter-
national importance. In addition, the Office of Exhibits welcomed to
its laboratories, to observe, and to receive instruction and advice,
more than 200 professionals from museums all over the United States
and more than a score of foreign countries, as well as large numbers
of interested college and university students.

The Office also presented special programs in which staff members
of its laboratories demonstrated the various techniques employed in
making educational displays. In many of the “booths,”’ visitor participa-
tion was encouraged. The first such demonstration program was held
in October 1966 in the Museum of History and Technology exhibits
laboratories in conjunction with the Smithsonian Associates and pri-
marily for the enlightenment and edification of its members. The second
was held in April 1967 at the Anacostia Naval Station as part of a
‘Sob fair’ for high-school students and was presented in collaboration
with the Neighborhood Youth Corps and the United Planning
Organization.

The exhibits editor’s office, under chief editor George Weiner, pro-
duced 7,106 labels for 89 permanent and special exhibits of museums
and offices of the Smithsonian Institution and, in cooperation with the
Smithsonian Institution Press and curators of the Museum of Natural
History and the Museum of History and Technology, performed
substantial work on three exhibits-oriented popular publications under
preparation.

History and Technology Laboratory

Under assistant chief of exhibits Benjamin W. Lawless, the Museum
of History and Technology laboratory opened 5 permanent exhibit
halls to the general public and produced additional portions of 15
other permanent halls and a variety of special and temporary exhibits.
These were designed under the supervision of chief designer Robert B.
Widder and were prepared and installed under the supervision of
production chief William M. Clark, Jr.

The permanent halls opened this year include the first two halls of the
Institution’s unique ‘Growth of the United States’ exhibition complex,
OFFICE OF EXHIBITS 391

In the hall of underwater exploration, exhibits preparators install the central
life-size diving group and (below) an underwater treasure trove.

392 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967—U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM

a comprehensive visual survey of every aspect of United States history,
designed by Robert B. Widder and Mrs. Deborah Bretzfelder. The
hall of power machinery, containing authentic examples of machines
of the American Industrial Revolution, many of them operative, was
produced under the direction of designer William F. Haase. The hall
of petroleum, which covers the development of the United States
petroleum industry from its beginnings to the present day, was designed
by Riddick Vann, Barbara H. Bowes, and William Haase. The hall
of underwater exploration, a delightfully adventurous survey of the
quest for sunken treasure in American coastal waters, was designed by
Nadya Kayaloff.

Special exhibits covered many facets of history and culture and
brought pleasure and enlightenment to both the serious specialist and
the casual viewer. The fresh and inviting exhibition of Japanese
photographs of herons, designed by James Jerald Shelton, contrasted
with Barbara Bowes’s severe, no-nonsense design of the African back-
grounds and Negro slavery exhibition, which was added to the hall
of everyday life in early America.

Photographs showing man and his activities in every part of the
globe comprised the loan exhibit from Germany, World Exposition
of Photography, designed by Robert Widder. The original of the
famous Yale Library Vinland map was the focal point of a compre-
hensive exhibit on the Vikings and their Atlantic voyages, designed
by James Shelton, which drew scholars from all over the world. By
using an excellent facsimile of the map after the loan period of the
original terminated, this highly popular exhibit was able to remain
on view four months longer than originally planned.

Superb 19th-century architectural drawings supplemented by
photos of Irish castles and public buildings comprised the exhibition
of Irish architectural drawings and photographs; and artist’s renderings
of the proposed Washington beautification program, displayed with
enlargements of photographs of the same sites in their present condi-
tions, gave Washingtonians and visitors to Washington a glimpse of
the Nation’s capital city of the future. Both of these exhibits were
designed by Robert Widder.

Students of the decorative arts enjoyed the Wedgwood exhibit,
containing 300 Wedgwood portrait medallions and about 200 other
pieces of Wedgwood porcelain, produced under the direction of
designer Morris Pearson in conjunction with the 1967 Wedgwood
International Seminar. The nostalgic exhibition of Victorian needle-
work, designed by James Shelton and displayed in cases specifically
designed to protect the delicate fabrics during a 2-year tour under the
sponsorship of the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition
OFFICE OF EXHIBITS 393

Service, was accompained by a central exhibit of 1 9th-century furni-
ture and sewing equipment.

Two striking exhibits of antique automobiles, featuring the Winton
Cross-Country car and the Winton Bullet, were prepared under the
direction of designer John R. Clendening for the Constitution Avenue
lobby of the Museum of History and Technology. And the fiftieth
anniversary of World War I was marked by two notable exhibitions—
one of combat art of the period, and the other of original war posters;
these exhibits were prepared under the direction of designers Helen
Hahm and Robert Widder.

Natural History Laboratory

Under the direction of chief of exhibits John E. Anglim, assisted by
A. Gilbert Wright, a highly diversified program of exhibits projects was
carried forward by the Museum of Natural History Laboratory.
Designed under the supervision of John Anglim, the exhibits were
prepared and installed under the supervision of production chief Julius
Tretick and his successor, Frank Nelms.

The opening of a new hall of meteorites, designed by Mrs. Dorothy
Guthrie, represented another milestone in the exhibits renovation pro-
gram of the Museum of Natural History. Other exhibits relating to the
earth sciences were also completed this year under the direction of Mrs.
Guthrie, including new exhibition cases in the gem and mineral halls.
Work continued on the design and production of exhibits for the hall of
physical geology, which is scheduled to be opened next year.

Production of new units continued for the cultures of Africa and Asia
hall, being designed by Lucius Lomax, which is scheduled for comple-
tion early next year; and designer James A. Speight completed designs
for the ichthyological section of the hall of cold-blooded vertebrates.
Designers Rolland O. Hower and Morris Pearson devoted much of their
efforts to the preparation of designs for the forthcoming halls of botany
and of Old World archeology, and designer Joseph Shannon devoted
a major part of his time to the architectural design for the forthcoming
hall of insect life.

During the year, a significant part of the work of the laboratory was
devoted to the design and production of special and temporary ex-
hibits. Of these, one of the most important was the 20-unit traveling
Alaska Centennial exhibit commemorating the one-hundredth anniver-
sary of the purchase of Alaska by the United States. Prepared under the
direction of designers Hower, Speight, and Pearson in collaboration
with historians and scientists of the University of Alaska, this exhibit
traced the growth and development of Alaska from prehistoric times to
the present.
394 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967—U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM

Nancy Halliday applies oil color to models of African cattle and (below)
Peter DeAnna completes background for life-group that will portray African
Bushmen in a life-setting for the hall of African and Asian cultures.

OFFICE OF EXHIBITS 395

In the plastics laboratory Leonard Shelton fabricates a mold
of life-figure for the hall of African and Asian cultures, and
(below) exhibit specialists William Donnelly, Mathew Ballou,
and Michael Friello produce replicas, in plastic, of natural
history and historical specimens.

396 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967—UvU.Ss. NATIONAL MUSEUM

Another special exhibit of international significance was The Face
of Chile, designed by Pearson and prepared by the Laboratory in
cooperation with the Chilean Embassy and the University of Chile.
The largest and most varied exhibit of ancient Tunisian mosaics ever
to be shown in the United States was prepared this year under the
direction of designer Guthrie, in conjunction with the Government of
Tunisia and the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service.
Consisting of 57 large mosaics, 3 frescoes, 8 stone carvings, and 23
ceramic figures, the exhibit remained on display through the summer of
1967.

In connection with a widely publicized “‘kite carnival’ sponsored by
the Smithsonian Associates, the laboratory produced in conjunction
with the National Air and Space Museum a special exhibition of kites
of the world in the rotunda of the Museum of Natural History.

During the year, the freeze-dry facilities were extensively redesigned
by Rolland O. Hower, supervisor of the freeze-dry laboratory. Installa-
tion of new equipment was begun which will greatly increase produc-
tion and will also make possible the freeze-dry preparation of much
larger biological specimens than before. Publication of Mr. Hower’s
comprehensive paper, The Freeze-Dry Preservation of Biological Specimens,
elicited many letters of inquiry from the museum world.

OFFICE OF THE REGISTRAR

The general public’s insatiable quest for knowledge on every subject
was reflected again this year in letters seeking information or trans-
mitting items for identification. These communications, some 250 to
275 a week, come particularly from elementary and secondary school
students, and are received and processed through the Office of the
Registrar, which serves both the Museum of Natural History and the
Museum of History and Technology. Dinosaurs remained the most
popular subject, with American Indians a close second and followed
by Stradivarius violins, coins, and requests for information on early
Americana. The NBC Smithsonian television series has generated a
sizeable influx of questions relating to the subject matter of the programs
Typically, one young man wrote, “I love your television shows but I
like the one on meteorites best. Please send me . fe

Among the interesting and significant types of cargo handled by
the shipping office, which processed 14,947 pieces totalling 1,079,702
pounds, were 16,000 pounds of whale bones and skulls carried by
motor freight from California. Another was the 15,000-pound El
Taco, Campo del Cielo meteorite, shipped back to the Smithsonian
from Germany after cutting and later, by special arrangement, returned
OFFICE OF THE REGISTRAR 397

to Argentina together with a model of the original specimen.. Yet
another was a collection of Mexican coins weighing 4,000 pounds that
was successfully moved by combined air and armored car service on
a rigid schedule and security basis. Valuable pieces of art for special
shows of the National Collection of Fine Arts, a 25,000-pound McMillan
synchrotron, a chariot dated 1825, and a fragile Dutch marquetry
cabinet were also transported through careful and painstaking efforts
of the staff.

Accessions to the collections were registered in 3,257 transactions,
and tables compiled in the Office of the Registrar, indicating the
distribution of these materials, appear on pages 123 and 270.

Passports numbering 293, and 310 visas, were obtained for official
travelers to countries from Costa Rica, Panama, Mexico, Poland, and
Hungary, to Indonesia and Diego Garcia in the Pacific. Permits were
obtained for field expeditions to Venezuela, Brazil, Tunisia, Pakistan,
and the inland waterways of Iceland and Norway.

\@
1 &
\e
ij
i

Art objects for the National Collection of Fine Arts, natural history specimens
for identification, personal effects for a paleontologist on an expedition—a
small part of the daily traffic handled by the Office of the Registrar.
eae f 7 ‘“. s4 > =e ae he q ye

Te erent year Aone. Rn

oe ‘ . as * * mb.
eset) ergs | een che! fer) Seb: of. rite vodlonuyet “wie
heals hci til > Dyirh, ot enlace aotes it te nen tind a 1a ,

-

‘ ' ” ; +, 4 .
1 i. Bs) (uf rire hip da Kw Wis Sanre | “ie oh) prayer ahi aes
> 7 wT =
} ‘ " yi ! , n
Ashe sor i Ae ite ‘ t
ISfh re as 00 2 PaaS cy ITTY 1 3
Wi Tr wel Ss wifwo? wb) tom a i
) tal rifm@ilyme hile i a f :
“en cere’ ( F Lye Wy hug oe
f t ' b Oe) 4 pit
‘ ( sy e .
‘ a '

;
i
7
*
+
\
a
i
} Je
i 7 4) he
. f
Pee
“4 OF 7
a
j ¥
4 ff iy
jr
ad le 4
ve ia soa
th 8 ait
= hi - in\
‘a 4
International Exchange Service

J. A. Cotuins, Director

STABLISHMENT OF THE INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGE SERVICE in 1849
provided a system whereby institutions in the United States could
transmit their publications to libraries in other countries and, in return
receive publications from the foreign institutions. This system grew
rapidly and the quantity of material transmitted has steadily increased
through the years. Today many libraries are dependent upon the
exchange system for their foreign publications.

During the fiscal year 1967, publications were received from over
400 organizations in the United States for transmission to more than
100 countries. Over 345,000 pounds of official United States publica-
tions were received for transmission to foreign depository libraries
in exchange for the official publications of other countries. The daily
issues of the Federal Register and the Congressional Record were
exchanged for the parliamentary journals of other countries. The
United States patent specifications were sent to patent offices in
other countries in exchange for the foreign patent specifications.
Bulletins, journals, reports, and transactions of universities, observa-
tories, societies, government agencies, agricultural experiment stations,
and congressional committees were transmitted to libraries throughout
the world in exchange for publications of similar foreign organizations.

A paper, ‘“The International Exchange Service,” presented by Collins
at a program on documents during the 1965 American Library Associa-
tion Conference, was published in Library Resources and Technical Services
(summer 1966), vol. 10, no. 3, pp. 337-341.

During the past year Carl E. Hellyer, who was connected with the
International Exchange Service for many years, retired as Assistant
Director.

399
400 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967

PACKAGES RECEIVED FOR TRANSMISSION FROM FOREIGN AND
DOMESTIC SOURCES, FISCAL YEAR 1967

Received by the

For transmission abroad Smithsonian for
by the Smithsonian distribution in the
Classification United States
Number of | Weight in Number of Weight in
packages pounds packages pounds
U.S. parliamentary documents
received for transmission
abroad .qsisnsen. ao adereeee 1,036,751 388, 259 = —
Publications received from foreign
sources for U.S. parliamentary
AGULESSEES | Pare = — 9, 016 11, 618
U.S. departmental documents re-
ceived for transmission abroad. 322,367 301, 042 — —
Publications received from foreign
sources for U.S. departmental
AG Gresseestee eer eee ee: -— — 7, 966 14, 726
Miscellaneous scientific and
literary publications received
for transmission abroad....... [S7ES1SH S2N85720 — —
Miscellaneous scientific and
literary publications received
from abroad for distribution in
the Wnited'States«. «4.5... 0: — — 51, 102 90, 507
Mota. SAE Rey. Os. Tae 1, 516,433 908, 021 68, 084 116, 851
Total packages received... 1, 585, 417 == = <2

Total pounds received..... -—

1, 024, 872
Science Information Exchange

Monroe E. FREEMAN, Director

OLUNTARY INPUT OF INFORMATION to the Science Information

Exchange (SIE) by all Government and non-Government agencies
has increased an estimated 20 percent over the previous year, and good
progress has been made toward SIE’s primary program objective, a
comprehensive national inventory of research in progress. The de-
mand for information services from the scientific community has also
increased at least 20 percent over 1966.

During this period, however, as a result of increased automation of
information handling, SIE has been able to absorb an increase in costs
of about 10 to 15 percent, so that the net gain in economy and efficiency
is about 30 percent. For example, an inverted-file disc storage for
subject retrieval reduced the computer search to 0.1 hour per question.
And a “Unique Last Term’? (ULT) index was developed that permits
automatic hierarchical assignment of index codes by the computer,
eliminating this phase of manual coding.

The man-machine computer-based scientific information system
used by SIE is quite complex in its operating detail, and is now auto-
mated to the fullest extent that is presently consistent with the practical
economics of full-scale production line operations. New methods and
equipment are progressively added when practical and when sub-
stantial cost-benefits are assured, and future plans include further
sophistication of the information-handling system by full-text computer
storage. A detailed systems study in progress promises substantial
cost-benefits, further reduction in response time, and_ substantial
progress toward standardization and compatability with other in-
formation systems. New studies on quality control of information are
beginning with an investigation of the amount of irrelevancy acceptable
to user-scientists. This will permit the realistic adjustment of input-
indexing techniques to the direct computer output of information
products acceptable to the users.

Attention was given to the integrated classification and description
of urban research. In this program Dr. Scott Keyes, University of
Illinois, served as a consultant to the Exchange for six months. Dr.
Keyes is also editor of Research Digest, published by the Bureau of

401
402 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967

Community Planning, University of Illinois. To establish closer co-
operation in the collection of information on urban research, a series
of informal meetings on urban affairs brought together at SIE specialists
in the Washington area with interest in the classification and descrip-
tion of the field. SIE and Department of Housing and Urban Develop-
ment co-sponsored a regional meeting in New York City on “‘Co-
operation and Communication in Urban Research.”

Staff members participated in the Inter-University Communications
Council (EDUCOM) at the University of Colorado, Boulder, Colorado,
during July 1966 to develop ‘‘engineering and operation plans for a
prototype network for education information processing.” A survey
paper on the nature and functions of national information centers was
contributed by SIE participants.

The second volume of the Water Resources Research Catalog and a new
Water Resources Research Thesaurus were prepared for the Office of Water
Resources Research, U.S. Department of the Interior. The Outdoor
Recreation Research (a 1966 reference catalog) was also prepared for
publication for the Bureau of Outdoor Recreation, U.S. Department
of the Interior.

Papers Presented or Published

Foster, W.R. Services of the Science Information Exchange in the
field of mental health. Presentation before the Committee on
Mental Health, HEW, Washington, D.C., April 12, 1967.

FREEMAN, M. E. Science Information Exchange educational in-
formation services. Presented before the Education Research
Information Center (ERIC), HEW, Washington, D.C., January 31,
1967.

The urban program of the Science Information Exchange.
Presented before the Conference on Cooperation and Communi-
cation in Urban Research, City University of New York, New
York, February 1, 1967.

———., The Science Information Exchange as a source of informa-
tion. Presentation before the New Jersey Chapter of the Special
Libraries Association, Edison, New Jersey, April 5, 1967.

The Science Information Exchange. Presentation before

the Northern, Central and Southern Ohio Chapters of the American

Documentation Institute, Cincinnati, Ohio, April 14, 1967.

Science Information Exchange—research-in-progress—

who, where and what? Presentation before the Seminar on

Government Sources of Scientific and Technical Information,

sponsored by the University of Houston and by the Southern

SCIENCE INFORMATION EXCHANGE 403

Methodist University, Dallas, Texas, in cooperation with the Special

Libraries Association—Texas Chapter, May 11 and 12, 1967.

Science Information Exchange’s triad, producer-processor-
user. Presentation before The Workshop on Drug Information
Sources Within the Government at the Drug Information Associa-
tion meeting, May 25-26, 1967, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.

—w. Determining costs of information systems. Journal of
Chemical Documentation (May 1967), vol. 7, no. 2, pp. 101-106.

Hersey, D. F. The role of the Science Information Exchange in
assisting small businesses. Presentation before the NASA-SBA
Conference at Lewis Research Center, Cleveland, Ohio, May 25,
L967:

The role of the Science Information Exchange in the
nuclear technology field. Presentation before the Symposium on
Nuclear Technology Information, Buffalo, New York, January 21,
1967.

Kreysa, F. J. Science Information Exchange and national registry
of current research. Presentation before the Symposium on
Information Resources for Nuclear and Radiation Technology,
Edison Club, Rexford, New York, May 17, 1967.

Lone, B. L. Bridging the pre-publication gap in scientific informa-
tion. Geotimes (March 1967), pp. 18-19.

Marron, H., and Foster, W. R. Subject searches on current
research information of parallel computer and manual files.
Proceedings of the American Documentation Institute, October
Ja plooo, pp..l23—129)

Maturi, V. F. Some elements of a federal scientific information
center. Presentation before the Gordon Conferences, New
Hampton, New Hampshire, July 19, 1966. :

; Lipman, S.; Firzpatrick, W. H.; and Kreysa, F. J.

Science information centers. Journal of Chemical Education

(November 1966), vol. 43, no. 11, pp. 605-606.

tie HOM RCs OF ae

peaiewtr ihe poten ihe T eu llet! tase
Gee? wy Ree hy Sh hd hy vq My, agri a Th uray
Pune aibetke “dalle eet load) seh Duarey li '
acGtgdidtel | aisyt| wie ovien Bi el]? eit pbibidane 4 i
cape rntine tain Ppt Ob arti rs hinenyise ging me ;
adnan) giteisbaliat COG! 4io-ee ee bhai
Me dtireeet i Tentdeye codeine ihe: “eep tame
MEAG Oy ited apes ;) tae, (VO) Vai © so erential
Ah) wad Agtd * Adionreind ‘one’ oll te alae cl BI ef
Sle Heh. Sr widode i) ane} “ent
Store site? hci oh coe ert alee
2 a
“A an Ona point { sonaine: acl ay
nbun ome. MEY Sead mes | bia’ ae

7 a

jSerider | cow wat wero yep ery vga
= Chi! OS iY :
’ | a
tHepet Line Son reve pele? «see
cy i) bre wlan a waar ra ad. Win) aL Deep pads aGarst. “5
Hiiumics& oltibes! toa sled) sel

_ eA! alt. a iL ayy vinta

grrriohat aAhusiie a ee eI obey ai onighing
Ri yep Spee fanatical

: on ; alive i... ene] ae

y ist rylgity lollee io . eta
¢ Wy) 4 ar) i 4A soot reo itera ult 4
| SS t- GS), ae
Ae wWiTOoWA ote b Aee DOE, Hy MeL Ay sels ayy A Fr
pea ie Bid oy ; [ f 4) Solo alpine : od 4

Cee) Wr why Loviodban aad
es ite Lee eet ee
houbs. Doe. Pu les. Levey “f 27ieD ae iv

Wie -@i cia ft ore BO bee tee
al a

- i Aes

. “ye

\
~

| aa Wks “¥

=e oP a weet eee ,

16, iia
ited Lid © | és 2 *
: Fa i yt; <W
. i“ ae AACE
Smithsonian Institution Libraries

Mary A. HurFFer, Acting Director

NCREASED ACTIVITY WITHIN THE INSTITUTION in research, education,

exhibits, and public services caused a substantial increase in the
workload of all Smithsonian Libraries this year. Of the 44,209 items
added, 7,369 came through purchase. Of the 16,939 titles cataloged,
8,121 items were handled in the bindery unit. No circulation figures
are available for the major portions of the collections which are freely
accessible to staff and visiting scholars within their own bureaus and
departments, but over 51,000 items were circulated through the loan
desks. The reference staff handled over 60,000 questions and letters.
At the end of the year about a third of the collections was fully
classified and cataloged. Most of the uncataloged material had been
sorted, shelved, and can now be retrieved through various temporary
control files.

Progress continues on the automation program. In July 1966, James
Crockett, program analyst, was assigned to the Director’s office to
assist in the system studies and programming of the Libraries’ auto-
mation projects. By the end of the year he had completed the review
and updating of all the programs for accounting procedures and ac-
quisitions of monographs and was beginning to phase in the purchasing,
check-in, and control system for serials.

The staff of the Smithsonian liaison librarian at the Library of
Congress continued to provide able assistance and support services to
Smithsonian staff members, thereby saving much valuable time
for both research and library staff members.

During the year 12,000 pages were submitted for translation on
the Special Foreign Currency Information Program administered by
the National Science Foundation.

In September the acquisitions staff moved into new quarters, in
the west range of the Natural History building, which provided more
space for staff, equipment, and operations. Thomas L. Wilding, who
was named exchange and gift librarian in July 1966, was most success-
ful in reactivating inactive exchange partners, and he increased by
50 percent the number of new exchanges. Improvements in the
operations of the automatic data processing system made possible
the handling of a 40 percent increase in book funds without additional
staff.

405
406 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967

In the cataloging section the year was one of transition. With the
arrival of Carol Raney as the new chief and the appointment of
Charles King as serials cataloger in August, the professional staff
has been complete for most of the year, and the output of cataloging ~
increased accordingly. Expansion of the department into the space
vacated by the acquisitions section resulted in a much better flow of
work and improved control of materials in process. The survey of the
manual system and preliminary report for the conversion of the serial
records for machine processing was completed by the end of the year.
In May the hand binding and commercial binding units were com-
bined under the supervision of Mrs. Mary J. Pierce.

The assistant director of reader services, Jean C. Smith, resigned in
May because of serious illness in her family.

Among the notable donations received during the year were the
following:

BROOKLYN Museum: 219 volumes on art.
CARNEGIE INsTITUTION: 103 volumes, including a complete set of the H.M.S.
Challenger Reports.
Epwarps, Mrs. CARroLyn E.: 17 monographs, including 2 rare books:
Bradley, Eliza. An authentic narrative of the shipwreck and suffering of Mrs.
Eliza Bradley. 1820.
Philips, George. Travels in North America. 1824.
Martin, Mr. AND Mrs. ALBERT: 41 items on art.
NAGEL, CHARLES: 1488 items on art and art history.
PRoETz, Vicror, EsTATE OF: 195 items on fine art from his estate.
Watson, Pau, EsTATE OF: 137 items on communications from his estate.
Wutre, Joun H., Jr.: 86 items on transportation.

Staff Activities

In November at the U.S. Department of the Interior Library’s
Biennial Departmental Workshop Mrs. Huffer spoke about the Smith-
sonian Libraries—their history and collections. Informal talks were
given throughout the year to visiting groups of foreign librarians and
numerous groups of library graduate students. Jack Goodwin gave
several lectures during the year, among them one on “The Historiog-
raphy of the American Revolution” at the graduate school of Mary-
land University. The Smithsonian Institution was elected to a two-year
term of membership on the Federal Library Committee in June.
Mrs. Huffer has continued her work with the Committee’s Task Force
on acquisitions of library materials and correlation of Federal library
procedures. Staff members continue to be active in many professional
societies and the Institution was well represented at meetings of the
American Library Association and the Special Libraries Association.
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION LIBRARIES 407

The following papers by a library staff member appeared in various
journals:
Goopwin, JAcK S. The trade literature collection of the Smithsonian
Library. Special Libraries (October 1966), vol. 57, no. 8, pp. 581-583.
. Current bibliography in the history of technology. Technology
and Culture (Spring 1966), vol. 7, no. 2, pp. 258-309.

Branch Libraries

Work continued in the entomology branch library on the organization
of the collection with special emphasis ca the serial holdings.

The remainder of the paleobiology department library collection was
integrated into the general natural history collection and the entire
general natural history collection housed in the central library was
moved to the new west-range stack area on the ground floor of the
Natural History building, thereby partially relieving the critical
shortage of shelving space in the central library.

By October 1966 the branch library in the Radiation Biology
Laboratory had been remodeled and enlarged, new library shelving
installed, and all the books cleaned and reshelved in proper sequence.

Mrs. Ruth Schallert, who was appointed librarian for the botany
department branch library in December, continued the review,
weeding, and reorganization of the botany collection begun last year.
An inventory of the collection was completed with the help of senior
research associate William Archer. Reclassification of this collection
from the Dewey to the Library of Congress system begins next year.
An anonymous gift of nearly a thousand dollars, and special effort by
the acquisitions section through the exchange program, added several
desirable items to the collection and filled many gaps in the serial
collection.

The staff of the branch library in the Museum of History and Tech-
nology continued to organize the trade-catalog collection.

During February and March of 1967, the branch library serving the
National Collection of Fine Arts and National Portrait Gallery moved
from the Natural History building into its new quarters on the third
floor of the Fine Arts and Portrait Galleries (the old Patent Office
building).

This collection continues te receive close attention, so that an
adequately staffed and well-organized and_ stocked library will be
available when the Galleries open to the public.

The branch library in the Smithsonian Office of Anthropology
continued to expand its collection, improve its organization of materials,
acquire additional space, and increase its services.
408 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967

Miss Elizabeth H. Weeks in July 1966 was appointed branch librarian
for the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory at Cambridge, Mas-
sachusetts. With the addition of a full-time library aid the cataloging
backlog was brought under control, a modest selective dissemination of
information program was put into effect, and two library publications
initiated—Library Acquisitions and Library Publications.

The Acting Director in August spent ten days at the Smithsonian
Tropical Research Institute in Panama surveying the branch library
while consulting with the scientific staff. Some new procedures were
initiated which resulted in better control of the materials, more rapid
response, and additional support from the central library in assisting
the staff with the acquisition of new materials and providing improved
reference and research services.
Smithsonian Institution Press

ANDERS RICHTER, Dzrector

"ees SMITHSONIAN HAS LONG BEEN NOTED for its publication of research
reports in serial form, which are funded mainly by Government ap-
propriations; and for popular pamphlets and guides, which are pro-
duced mainly with private funds and distributed through its Museum
Shops. It has not been recognized as a publisher of books, as are the
sixty-six other academic institutions whose presses are members of the
Association of American University Presses. During the course of the
past fiscal year, the Smithsonian Institution Press acquired the form and
functions of a full-fledged university press in order that it may support
a program of book publishing in addition to serials and popular publica-
tions. The Press was reorganized on the basis of functional departments
which are common to American publishing houses.

The editorial section was revised so that specific editors are no longer
charged with the total editing and production of a particular series.
Editors now receive manuscripts according to schedule priorities rather
than subject matter, and theyare usually relieved of production concerns.
Direction of the section was assumed by Roger Pineau, formerly
liaison editor of the Museum of History and Technology, on his ap-
pointment to the position of managing editor. Mr. Pineau is a historian,
translator, and Japanese linguist who has written several books and
other publications. Although the editorial staff was reduced by four
persons during the year, a considerable reduction in editorial backlog
was achieved.

The production section was established under the direction of
managing designer Stephen Kraft, a prominent member of the graphic
arts community in the City of Washington, where formerly he conducted
his own typography and design studio for 14 years. Subsequent to his
appointment, he was joined by Mrs. Betty Sur, who came to the Press
as assistant design and production manager from the publications office
of the Library of Congress. Including an additional staff of two design-
ers, the production section is responsible for the purchasing, scheduling,
and design of Press printing.

The promotion section was established with the appointment of
Virginia Foster, formerly manager of the Kiplinger Book Service, as

409
410 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967

promotion manager. Her responsibilities include annual catalogs,
direct mail announcements, space advertising, distribution of review
copies, book jackets, exhibits, and book-trade relations. In the last six
months of the fiscal year her efforts produced three direct-mail circulars
sent to 20,000 addresses and five space advertisements appearing in
seven periodicals, and culminated with distribution of 40,000 copies
of a 28-page catalog announcing new titles and listing back titles. Late
in the year, a working arrangement with the S. G. Stackig advertising
agency was concluded.

The most urgent problem facing Press management at the beginning
of the year was that of a large backlog of manuscripts accepted for
publication in the several Smithsonian series. By the end of the year this
problem had been considerably reduced and had been eliminated for
shorter papers in the natural sciences which, by that time, were being
issued as rapidly as four months after receipt of the manuscript. The
reorganization of the editorial and production sections, the application
of “‘cold” (typewriter) composition to appropriate jobs, the screening
out of deficient manuscripts, the employment of free-lance editors, the
elimination of continuous pagination in a major series, the stress on
making changes in manuscript rather than on proofs, and the elimina-
tion of such extraordinary editorial services as complete checking of
citation and quotations all had beneficial effects on schedules and out-
put. There is still a serious problem of backlog with longer or heavily
illustrated works but, by the end of the year, every manuscript accepted
by the Press earlier than seven weeks before that date was in editorial
work or at the printer.

During the past fiscal year, 128 publications were issued by the Smith-
sonian Institution Press (as compared with 109 in the previous year).
Of these, 92 were funded by the Federal appropriation in the amount of
$223,916 and 36 were issued with Smithsonian private funds in the
amount of $134,037, including 3 supported by grants and gifts in the
amount of $15,745. The titles of all works published by the Press are
listed in Appendix 3.

The distribution section, under the able direction of Mrs. Eileen
McCarthy, mailed out 306,494 publications. Midway in the year, it
was decided to move the section to the second floor of a leased garage
at 1242 Twenty-fourth Street, where the office personnel and entire
stock of Press publications can be integrated in a unified operation.
It is hoped that this move will give the Press sufficient warehouse space
to accommodate expansion of inventory for at least five years.

During the past year, the Press pursued a policy of divesting itself
of inherited functions that are not matters of publishing. Accordingly,
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION PRESS 411

the fiscal and operating responsibility for the purchase of office forms
was transferred to the Division of Organization and Methods, for
exhibit labels to the Office of Exhibits, and for book rebinding to the
Library. The Press also clarified its relationship with the Museum
Shops, with the result that it will purvey its publications to the Shops
for re-sale on a publisher-bookstore basis.

In keeping with the Smithsonian’s purpose of making available
works which describe and interpret its activities and related science to
the public at large, the Press management has continued to participate
in cooperative arrangements with private publishers. A contract for
a major publishing project was executed with the American Heritage
Publishing Company in June 1966, providing for collaboration in
publishing a series of illustrated books for a popular audience. The
Smithsonian Library series was publicly announced by American Heritage
in February 1967. The subjects for the books will range the diverse
fields of Smithsonian interests with strong accent on the natural
sciences and the history of technology. American Heritage will procure
the manuscripts and artwork, and will produce and sell the volumes.
The Smithsonian is providing archival services and photographs, and
consults on the correctness of fact and interpretation in the manu-
scripts. It is hoped that the series will provide the public with insights
into the essence and process of academic research, and will help to
repair the breach in the mutuality of scholars and laymen. By the end
of the year seven authors were under commission to prepare
manuscripts.

In 1966, Simon and Schuster published, in cooperation with the
Smithsonian, The Golden Age of Science. Edited by Bessie Zaban Jones,
the volume is a collection of biographies of 30 prominent scientists of
the 19th century, reprinted from the Appendixes of the Annual Reports
of the Smithsonian Institution.

Notable personal accomplishments include the selection of Crimilda
Pontes’ design of Islamic Art from the Collection of Edwin Binney, 3rd
as one of the 25 best of the year by the jury for the Association of
American University Presses. Miss Pontes was also awarded a place
in the Art Directors Club of Washington annual show for her design of
Art Treasures of Turkey. Upon request of Admiral Samuel E. Morison,
Roger Pineau was detached for eight weeks to Japan, where he assisted
Admiral Morison* with research for his forthcoming biography of

*While in Japan, Admiral Morison, on behalf of the Smithsonian Institution,
presented to the city of Hikone a life-size wooden statue of Naosuke Ii, Japan’s
first prime minister, which had been given to the Smithsonian after its exhibition
at the Columbian Exposition of 1893 in Chicago. (See also p. 126.)
412 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967

Commodore Matthew C. Perry. He was elected a trustee of the Japan-
America Society of Washington, and he was guest lecturer in Newport,
Rhode Island, on June 15 at the annual meeting of the Preservation
Society of Newport County, giving an illustrated talk ‘““With Admiral
Samuel Morison in Far East Pursuit of Commodore Matthew C. Perry.”
Stephen Kraft taught a semester course on “‘Advanced Graphic Design”
at The American University. The Director represented the Smithsonian
on the Inter-Agency Book Committee, and was a member of the
Copyright Committee of the Association of American University
Presses.

The Press continues to administer a print shop, a small branch
of the Government Printing Office, which exists to serve immediate
printing needs—many of which, such as labels for collections, are
peculiar to the Smithsonian. The shop, with a staff of two journeymen
printers, completed 905 jobs during fiscal 1967.

Under the authority of its first Secretary, the Smithsonian Institution
was established as a center for advanced studies and as an academic
publishing house. Under the present administration, the historic
mandate for a publications program continues to receive major
emphasis.
Office of International Activities

WiLiiAM W. Warner, Dzirector

in OFFICE OF INTERNATIONAL ACTIVITIES, now in its third year of
developing and administering programs of international coopera-
tion, has given emphasis to those areas of basic research in the sciences
and humanities where further advancement of knowledge in this
country requires continuing and strong cooperative research programs
in other nations. These programs benefit not only the Smithsonian,
but the many other American institutions of higher learning that
carry out research of interest to the Institution and are recipients of
the Office’s foreign currency and other grants.

The Office also serves as the Institution’s point of liaison with govern-
ment agencies and international organizations concerned with inter-
national matters relating to Smithsonian interests. The Director or
other of the Office staff members represent the Institution on such
advisory councils or working groups as the International Committee
of the Federal Council for Science and Technology, the Department of
State’s Interagency Council on International Educational and Cultural
Affairs, the Foreign Area Research Coordination Group, the Cultural
Activities Committee of the United States National Commission for
UNESCO, the International Committee of the National Trust for
Historic Preservation, and the Organization for Tropical Science, to
name a representative sampling.

In addition to programs which it directly administers, the Office also
assists other elements of the Smithsonian in establishing research proj-
ects or exchanges of exhibits which involve substantial participation of
foreign institutions or intergovernmental negotiation. During the period
under review, such assistance ranged from obtaining host country and
American Embassy support for multi-national research programs, such
as the Office of Anthropology’s Ancient Technologies Program, which
has carried out field research in Iran, Turkey, and Ceylon, to making
arrangements for locally shown art exhibits or cultural events with the
Embassies of Peru, Chile, Tunisia, Iran, and Czechoslovakia.

The Office last year welcomed two new staff members, David
Challinor, as Deputy Director, and Kenneth Whitehead, as Deputy to
the Foreign Currency Program Director. Dr. Challinor holds a degree

413
414 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967

in forestry from Yale University, where he also served as Deputy
Director of the Peabody Museum. At the Smithsonian, he has been
instrumental in the development of cooperative programs with the
Organization for Tropical Studies, described in more detail below, and
the National Research Council of Iceland. Mr. Whitehead comes to
the Smithsonian after a Foreign Service career in Italy, Lebanon,
and Libya. His interest in Old World archeology and his fluency in
Arabic and French have been instrumental in the successful develop-
ment of many Foreign Currency Program projects in the Mediterranean
area.
Foreign Currency Program

Following an initial concentration on archeology and related disci-
plines, the Foreign Currency Program, under its Director, Kennedy
B. Schmertz, broadened its scope to include systematic and environ-
mental biology. This was the result of Congressional approval of a
broader program authority and an increased appropriation, in the
amount of $2,316,000 in excess foreign currencies deriving from the
sale of surplus agricultural commodities under Public Law 480.

Among the first projects to be carried out in the biological sciences
were a Johns Hopkins University study of the small mammals of
Bengal, an investigation that combines basic and applied research
through the identification of rodents and their disease-bearing ecto-
and endoparasites; a Southern Methodist University study of the
Qattara Depression, a vast below-sea-level basin in northwestern Egypt
that holds the record of the interesting environmental changes that
have occurred in this region from the Quaternary period to the present;
and a University of Michigan study of the cytology of certain Indian
mollusks which are of interest in themselves for their great morpho-
logical diversity and of importance to medical, veterinary, and public
health research.

Foreign currency grants for projects in the biological sciences were
also made to elements of the Smithsonian itself, through the Smith-
sonian Research Foundation. Prominent among these were the in-
auguration of the Mediterranean Marine Sorting Center in Tunisia,
and a study of the behavior and ecology of the Ceylonese elephant,
headed by Dr. John Eisenberg of the National Zoological Park, in
cooperation with the University of Ceylon and the Wildlife Department
of the Ceylonese Government’s Ministry of State. The Sorting
Center was established through the cooperation of the Tunisian
Institute of Oceanography and Fisheries at Salambo on the coast north
of Tunis; Dr. David Damkaer of the Smithsonian Oceanographic
Sorting Center assumed duties as Resident Director in November
OFFICE OF INTERNATIONAL ACTIVITIES 415

The Foreign Currency Program is supporting a study of migratory birds in
northeast Africa by George E. Watson of the Musuem of Natural History.
The bird that the young Bedouin girl is removing from the net will be banded
for identification purposes and set free. Below: nets set around base of tree.

416 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967

of 1966. This new sorting facility has greatly advanced the Oceano-
graphic Sorting Center’s general mission of identification of marine
organisms and has also served as the collection and specimen processing
center for special projects in the marine biology of the Mediterranean.

In accord with Congressional directives to support the objectives
of the International Biological Program (IBP), the Foreign Currency
Program also provided grants to carry out ecological surveys of oppor-
tunity in areas which may later be singled out for intensive study under
the IBP. These surveys were conducted in India, Congo (Kinshasa),
Pakistan, and Israel and involved scientists from some ten American
universities. In cooperation with the National Academy of Sciences,
grants were made to support American participation at planning
conferences of the Terrestrial Productivity and Terrestrial Conservation
Sections of the IBP in Warsaw and Tunis, respectively.

Continuing projects in archeology and related disciplines, established
during the first year of the Program, included:

The Hebrew Union College-Jerusalem School of Archeology
excavation at Gezer, best known as the city given by Pharaoh Shishak
as a dowry to his daughter, who became King Solomon’s queen. More
significant is the fact that the Gezer excavation is developing strong
evidence of the city’s destruction by Nebuchadnezzar. The Smith-
sonian’s grant also permits the Jerusalem School to conduct a general
archeological survey of the Negev and to hold an annual seminar on
Near Eastern Civilization for American graduate students.

The Carnegie Museum-University of Pittsburgh excavations at
Ashdod in Israel, which have confirmed Biblical reports of the city’s
periodic destruction and have unearthed occupation sequences
ranging from late Bronze Age to the Byzantine period.

The American Academy of Benares, a center for the study of
Indian art history and archeology. In its second year the Academy
commenced preparation of an encyclopedia of medieval temple
architecture and published bulletins on the sculpture of Kashmir
and the Bronze Age sculpture of Eastern India. In its more general
tasks, the Academy has already produced and accessioned over 4,000
photographs for its archives and developed a library with some 2,500
books and journals.

The University of Missouri-Corning Museum of Glass excavations
of ancient Phoenician glass manufactories along the Israeli coast,
which have uncovered evidence of the earliest use of melting tanks, as
opposed to the more primitive glass-making pots.

New projects included excavation of Neolithic sites near Cracow,
OFFICE OF INTERNATIONAL ACTIVITIES 417

by the University of Michigan and the Polish Academy of Sciences’
Institute for the History of Material Culture, and a University of
Colorado expedition to Oued el Akarit, a Middle Stone Age site with
artifacts from the Mousterian culture that is expected to reveal rela-
tionships with similar sites in Europe and cast further light on the
evolution of hominoids and early man.

A major obstacle to further development of the Program came at
the end of the period of this report with the outbreak of the Arab-
Israeli war. The hostilities caused suspension of a number of major
projects in Egypt. Among these were:

The American Research Center in Egypt’s various research and
excavation projects. The Research Center represents a consortium of
ten American universities; at the time of the outbreak it was making
plans to continue an epigraphic survey at Luxor, archival research at
St. Catherine’s monastery on Mount Sinai, and major excavations at
Mendes on the Sinai peninsula and Gebel Adda and Hierankopolis on
the Upper Nile.

A University of Pennsylvania project to photograph and match
with the use of computers the massive stones of the temple of Akhenaten
stored at random in Luxor. The interpretation of the pictorial scenes
and hieroglyphics on the stone faces was expected to reveal much
about life in the XVIIIth Dynasty.

The University of California Lawrence Radiation Laboratory-Ein
Shams University project to discover interior chambers in the Great
Pyramids through use of cosmic rays and a spark chamber. Instruments
had been installed and calibrated at the Pyramid of Cheops when
hostilities forced cessation.

In June of 1967 the Office Director visited Belgrade and concluded
a general program agreement with the Yugoslav Government permit-
ting cooperative programs in archeology. Soon thereafter Stanford
University made intensive preparations for joint excavations and
surveys with the Territorial Museum of Sarajevo in a rich area threat-
ened with flooding by dam construction. The area, known as the
Trebisnjica Basin, lies in the mountains northeast of Dubrovnik and
contains large Roman and medieval Slavic necropolises, as well as
archeological sites and monuments of Pre-Illyrian, Illyrian (Iron Age),
and Greek origin. It is also known for the curious tombstones of the
Bogomils, a 13th-century heretical sect.

By the end of its second fiscal year, the Foreign Currency Program
had awarded excess currency grants totaling $3,400,000 which bene-
fited 23 American universities and museums.
418 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967

5: Taig? Mies be eg ate
pS ‘a ie] chats sy va

Shoes

Some 30,000 blocks from the Temple of Akhnaten, at Karnak, Egypt, stored
haphazardly in boxes, are carved with detailed scenes from the life and times
of the revolutionary Pharaoh Akhnaten and his consort Queen Nefertiti.
The University of Pennsylvania, University Museum, is undertaking a project
to photograph the blocks and to record them with the help of a computer. By
this means they hope to reassemble them in correct sequence and thus reveal
as a coherent story-telling whole the magnificent decoration of the temple.
n
3
2)
<
4
<
Z
S
B
<
Z
i
&
ie
S)
ta
12)
Lam
fy
By
fe)

420 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967

Exchange of Persons Programs

The Office continued to help with the programming of foreign
visitors coming to the United States under Department of State or
other Federal and private exchange of persons programs. A significant
number of these visitors were public officials from ministries of culture
or education interested in such subjects as the organization of the
Smithsonian and its various bureaus, museum education, the U.S.
National Museum Act, or Federal programs for the performing arts,
sciences, and humanities in general. In this category were Mr. Wah-
Siang Woon, Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Cultural Affairs
of Singapore, Dr. Prem Kirpal, Secretary of India’s Ministry of Edu-
cation; Ambassador Ante Rukavina, Executive Director of the Yugo-
slav Fulbright Commission; Dr. K. N. Saxena, Field Advisor of
India’s National Council of Educational Research and Training; Mr.
Janez Vipotnik, Yugoslavia’s Federal Secretary for Education and
Culture; Mr. Noom Yoonaidharma, Executive Secretary of the De-
partment of Fine Arts of the Ministry of Education of Thailand; and
Mr. Chedli Klibi, Tunisia’s Secretary of State for Information and
Culture.

Visits to the Smithsonian and programming assistance were also
arranged for museum directors from Australia, Brazil, the Republic
of China, Ecuador, India, Rumania, Tunisia and Venezuela. Sig-
nificant discussions were held on international conservation and
national park museums with Mr. Webungo Bukachi Akatsa, Under
Secretary of Kenya’s Ministry of Natural Resources.

In addition, the Smithsonian accepted total programming respon-
sibility for Joseph F. K. Acquaye, Assistant Director of Ghana’s
National Science Museum, and Guy Ramanantsoa of the Malagasy
Government’s Department of Forests and Water Resources. Mr.
Acquaye, who was the recipient of a State Department specialist
grant, received practical training with the Smithsonian’s Office of
Exhibits and a two-month observation tour of museums across the
nation. Mr. Ramanantsoa, whose visit was in part funded by Duke
University, studied with Dr. John Buettner-Janusch, of Duke’s Medical
Center, methods of breeding lemurs and other primates in captivity.
He also observed various national parks and visited the Smithsonian
Tropical Research Institute in Panama. The Institution was pleased
to have helped provide these opportunities for Mr. Ramarantsoa,
whose professional duties are directly concerned with the preservation
of Madagascar’s unique flora and fauna.

To an increasing degree the Institution cooperated with the Office
of Protocol of the Department of State in holding diplomatic gatherings
OFFICE OF INTERNATIONAL ACTIVITIES 421

or making arrangements for the official visits of chiefs of state. On
the eve of Washington’s birthday, the Smithsonian and the Office of
Protocol held a joint dinner for all foreign chiefs of diplomatic missions
in the Flag Hall of the Museum of History and Technology. The
Ambassadors and their wives had a preview of the growth of the
United States hall and heard period music from Washington’s time
by the First Maryland Fifes and Drums and the Smithsonian Collegium
Musicum, a vocal and instrumental group led by John Fesperman,
Smithsonian associate curator of musical instruments.

In April the Institution played host to His Excellency Cevdet Sunay,
President of the Republic of Turkey. He was met in the Presidential
Room of the Museum of History and Technology by Acting Secretary
James Bradley who presented him with an inscribed copy of the
newly published Art Treasures of Turkey, which contains illustrations
of many of the objects shown in the exhibition being circulated in this
country by the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service.

At the end of the period under review, the Smithsonian received
His Excellency Asgeir Asgeirsson, President of the Republic of Iceland.
A luncheon at which Vice President Humphrey and Secretary Ripley
presided, was held for President Asgeirsson in the Museum of History
and Technology. The Vice President spoke of the importance of co-
operative scientific research in Iceland; Mr. Ripley outlined some of
the Smithsonian’s long-standing interests in Iceland and presented to
the President, an ardent bibliophile, a specially bound and inscribed
copy of Diirer and His Time, recently published by the Smithsonian
Institution Press.

Conferences

The Office assisted in the arrangements for the Smithsonian Sym-
posium 1967: The Quality of Man’s Environment, and provided
foreign currency grants which enabled participants from Israel, India,
Pakistan, Tunisia, and Yugoslavia to attend the Symposium.

In cooperation with the American Institute of Biological Sciences,
the Office organized and provided travel for American participation in
the Surtsey Research Conference held under the auspices of the
National Research Council of Iceland and the Surtsey Research
Society in Reykjavik in June 1967. The purpose of this conference was
to report on the progress of research in the biological and geological
sciences concerned with the island of Surtsey, which was born of a
submarine volcanic eruption off the south coast of Iceland in November
1963, and to make plans for the coordination of future research efforts.
Surtsey Island represents the most continuously studied of all recent
volcanos. As such, it is vital to the understanding of oceanic volcanism
The Lawrence Radiation Laboratory of the University of California at Berkeley
has initiated a project to search for hidden chambers in the Great Pyramid of
Cheops and the second pyramid of Chephren by the use of high-energy particle
detectors placed inside the pyramids. Equipment is unloaded (top) and a
mock-up of the detector to measure the angle of arrival of incident cosmic rays
is carried through tunnels in the Great Pyramid to the inner chambers, to
assure that passageways are wide enough.

OFFICE OF INTERNATIONAL ACTIVITIES 423

At Obre, Yugoslavia, the University of California at Los Angeles and the
Zemaliski Musej in Sarajevo are excavating a village settlement of the pre-
historic Butmir culture. Above: Butmir pottery, ca. 4000 B.C., with sophisti-
cated spiral designs, uncovered at the excavation.

424 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967

and may offer predictive information for similar geophysical occur-
rences. Surtsey also represents virtually the only sterile environment
that can be conveniently studied in the world today.* It is for this
reason that Assistant Secretary for Science Sidney Galler has charac-
terized Surtsey as “‘a unique opportunity to investigate the dynamics of
ecological succession.”

In addition to Dr. Galler, Smithsonian scientists and staff members
attending the Surtsey Conference were Kurt Fredriksson, curator of
meteorites; William Melson, associate curator of petrology; David
Challinor, Deputy Director of the Office of International Activities;
and Helen Hayes, Special Assistant to the Assistant Secretary for
Science. All had the opportunity to land on the island, which now
boasts a modest combined laboratory and bunkhouse. As a result of
his visit, Dr. Melson is collaborating with Icelandic scientists in the
study of certain greenstones found around the core of Iceland’s deeply
eroded volcanos which are also enigmatically occurring in dredge hauls
made along midocean ridges, especially the Mid-Atlantic Ridge, with
increasing frequency.

Cooperative Programs

The Office of International Activities continued to carry out coopera-
tive programs with organizations ranging from the Pan American
Union to the Peace Corps. For the second year, Peace Corps Volunteers
around the world have collected specimens or made field observations
for Smithsonian scientists. Especially valuable were the contributions
of the first contingent of Volunteers to go to Guyana, seven of whom
spent two days at the Smithsonian during their training period in the
United States.

Also for the second year, the Fellowship Program and the Department
of Scientific Affairs of the Pan American Union funded field research
opportunities for Latin American graduate students at the Smithsonian
Tropical Research Institute in Panama. During the year under review,
fellowships were granted to Profesora Maria Andrada de Luraschi of
Argentina, who is specializing in the taxonomy and evolution of orchids,
and Sr. José Eduardo Olazarri of Uruguay, whose interests center on
mollusks.

In November 1966, the Smithsonian became a member of the Orga-
nization for Tropical Studies (OTS), a consortium of 16 leading Ameri-

*“Travel Notes from Iceland’’ (Atlantic Naturalist (April-June 1967), vol. 22,
no. 2, pp. 87-96), by Office Director William W. Warner, describes, among other
things, a flight over Surtsey and its neighboring volcanic island of Syrtlingur.
OFFICE OF INTERNATIONAL ACTIVITIES 425

United Fruit Company’s Botanical Gardens in Lancetilla, Honduras, are to be
developed as a graduate training and research center in tropical biology by
the Organization for Tropical Studies. The Smithsonian, as a member of this
consortium of American universities, was instrumental in arranging with the
United Fruit Company for the use of the Gardens.

can universities and the University of Costa Rica dedicated to encourag-
ing the study of tropical biology. Soon thereafter the Office of Inter-
national Activities took a leading role in interesting the Organization
in the possibilities of the United Fruit Company’s botanical gardens in
Lancetilla, Honduras, as a field research and training center. The
gardens, which are surrounded by a 3,400-acre forest reserve which
serves as the watershed for the nearby town of Tela, have one of the
world’s outstanding collections of tropical plants, with both native and
exotic species. Lancetilla is also very close to the Rio Ulua valley, an
area vital to the archeology of Middle America, and is thus of added
interest to the OTS in view of plans to extend its graduate training
programs to the anthropological sciences.

At a meeting held in New Orleans during May 1967, the United
Fruit Company generously offered the use of the Lancetilla gardens and
associated facilities to the OTS through a legal agreement. At the
426 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967

moment of writing, plans are being made to conduct a three-month
graduate course in tropical forestry during the winter of 1968 and to
improve laboratory facilities and living quarters. It is hoped that in
the future Lancetilla can serve as one in a chain of research and training
centers located in different environmental regimes, along with the
Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute in Panama, the Chesapeake
Bay Center for Field Biology, and the OTS field stations in Costa Rica.
The Smithsonian and all member ‘institutions of the -Organization
consider such increased field training and research opportunities to be
vital to man’s knowledge of the Tropics, which represent the last great
frontier for human occupancy left on earth and an outstanding chal-
lenge for pioneer scientific investigations for many generations to come.

Notable progress was achieved in seeking United States membership
in the International Centre for the Study and Preservation of Cultural
Property at Rome. The Rome Centre, as it is better known, is an
international organization with 42 member nations dedicated to the
advancement of museum conservation and historical or archeological
site preservation through training programs, consultation missions and
technical publications.

In accord with a Board of Regents recommendation that the Smith-
sonian explore the necessary measures to obtain U.S. membership,
Smithsonian General Counsel Peter Powers and the Office Director
sought the opinions of a wide range of museum conservators and
officials of Federal agencies or private organizations concerned with
conservation or historic sites preservation on the potential benefits of
American membership in the Rome Centre, through consultations and
meetings held at the Smithsonian. Uniformly favorable reactions were
obtained, and it was with some gratification that in October 1966, the
Institution received a letter from Joseph Sisco, Assistant Secretary of
State for International Organization Affairs, expressing Department of
State support of United States membership and suggesting that the
Smithsonian might appropriately seek legislative action to achieve the
same, in view of the Institution’s professional concern with the work of
the Rome Centre. In April of 1967, Mr. Powers and Frank A. Taylor,
Director of the U.S. National Museum, attended the Centre’s General
Assembly. in Rome as observers in order to obtain first-hand knowledge
of the Centre’s administration and programs. Upon their return, a
draft bill providing for membership and a supporting statement giving
detailed information on the programs and operation of the Centre was
readied for submission to the Congress.

sone a cl
Office of Education and Training

CHARLES BiiTzER, Director

jee OFFICE OF EDUCATION AND TRAINING during the past year
continued its program of visiting research appointments for
postdoctoral scientists and scholars, for graduate students, and for
undergraduates. (Lists of those receiving awards appear in Appendix
6.) The number of applications in these programs attests to the high
interest that they have aroused in the academic community. During
the year arrangements were completed with the American Council of
Learned Societies under which the Council will work with the Smith-
sonian in the selection of postdoctoral fellows in the humanities.

The Institution’s program in American Civilization continued to
grow, most notably through the offering of courses in cooperation with
universities in the District of Columbia. A detailed report is to be
found under the Museum of History and Technology, page 251.

The Smithsonian’s Belmont Conference Center began regular opera-
tions late in the year. During May and June conferences were held
there by The American Historical Association, The Smithsonian
Society of Associates, The American Academy of Arts and Sciences,
the U.S. Office of Education Postdoctoral Fellows, and Outward
Bound, Inc.

Planning proceeded for an experimental exhibit for the blind.
Supported by a grant from the Vocational Rehabilitation Administra-
tion, a proposal for an exhibit, ““The Four Senses—Imagination and
Flight,” was prepared by Brian O’Doherty with the aid of a distin-
guished advisory committee. Funds will be sought for the construction
of this exhibit in the near future. It is our belief that Dr. O’Doherty’s
exhibit will be of the greatest interest to all museum visitors; those who
happen to be blind will perhaps be able to enjoy it even more than the
sighted.

During the year, the Office of Education and Training worked closely
with the Anacostia Neighborhood Advisory Council in planning and
developing an experimental neighborhood museum. With funds raised
from private sources, a motion picture theater was rented in Anacostia—
a community in which 78 percent of the population is non-white,

427
Belmont, the Smithsonian Institution’s conference center, lies about twelve
miles south of Baltimore and eight miles from Friendship International
Airport. The estate is thirty-five miles north of Washington, D.C.

Built in 1738 by Caleb Dorsey of Annapolis, Belmont is situated on 340 acres
of rolling fields and woodlands bordering the Patapsco River and Park near
Elkridge, Maryland. In 1805, Priscilla Dorsey married Alexander Hanson and
since then the property has gone through numerous generations of the Dorsey-
Hanson families. In 1917, ownership of Belmont was transferred from the
last direct heir to a cousin and her husband, Mr. and Mrs. Howard Bruce.

The estate was acquired by the Smithsonian in 1964 and, following extensive
restoration and modernization, the manor house was opened as a conference
center in spring 1967.
The aim of the Smithsonian’s conference center is to provide a peaceful
location in pleasant surroundings for the pursuit and sharing of knowledge,
and all conferences held at Belmont relate directly or indirectly to the Smithso-
nian’s educational objectives. The Institution sponsors conferences at Belmont
in the fields of its special interest—the sciences, history, and the arts—and
welcomes meetings of educators and others devoted to the increase and diffusion
of knowledge in any field.

Belmont conferences are organized either entirely under Smithsonian
auspices or by outside organizations and governmental agencies having
similar interests. Specialized conferences often bring in outside experts for
consultation in particular fields.

The Belmont estate at present provides comfortable overnight quarters for
twenty-two guests, while fifty may be accommodated for lectures and discus-
sions. The main conference room seats thirty-six, and special rooms for in-
formal meetings or working sessions are available. The dining room can seat
fifty guests.

Additional sleeping accommodations are provided in neighboring hostelries,
pending the restoration of other residential buildings on the property.
430 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967

in which 41 percent is under 18 years of age, and in which the
median family income in 1960 was $3,430. With the help of volun-
teers of all ages, the building and adjoining grounds were transformed
into a museum and small park, and work has begun on the preparation
of exhibits chosen by the neighborhood. Under the direction of John
Kinard, the new Anacostia Neighborhood Museum, scheduled to open
September 15, 1967, holds promise of bringing the resources of museums
to the very substantial part of our population that has not in the past
been reached by them.

During the 1966-67 school year, 35,318 schoolchildren were taken
on guided tours of Smithsonian museums by docents of the Junior
League, who had in turn been trained by museum instructors on the
staff of the Office of Education and Training. With the generous
assistance of the Junior League, and under the experienced guidance
of Nathaniel R. Dixon, new and imaginative programs for relating the
resources of the Smithsonian to the needs of schools and children are
being prepared.
Office of Public Affairs

FREDERIC M. Puiips,* Director

ae OFFICE OF PUBLIC AFFAIRS provided, through a busy year of
transition, a diverse range of services to the public—from recorded
telephone information and a nationwide television series to a free
educational film theater and material for the local, national, and
international press.

Every Saturday afternoon through the fall and winter, a half-hour
filmed color television program entitled ‘““The Smithsonian”? brought
various aspects of the Institution and its areas of concern into the
homes of an estimated four million viewers. Produced by the National
Broadcasting Company with the day-to-day cooperation of this office
and bureaus concerned in each program, the films were addressed to
the following topics: underwater archeology, aviation and space flights,
osteology, election campaigns, American inventors, ecology, conser-
vation, meteors, patriotism, first ladies, sports, radiation, George Catlin
and the American Indian, physical anthropology, systematics, expedi-
tions, and American folk art.

Plans were completed and schedules set for cooperation in two
hour-long television programs to be filmed in the latter half of 1967
and broadcast early in 1968—a children’s story of a pet dinosaur
entitled ““The Enormous Egg”’ and a documentary on the ecology of
East Africa, centered around the field work of Smithsonian conserva-
tionists Lee M. and Marty Talbot.

By the end of this reporting period, tape-recorded interviews with
twenty bureau directors, department heads, and curators through-
out the Institution had been broadcast over the worldwide facilities of

*Appointment effective July 2, 1967. The Office of Public Affairs, successor to
the Office of Public Information, under which name the work reported above was
conducted, was organized July 12, 1967, to assume responsibility for Smithsonian
activities in public information, press relations, radio and television, films and
other audio-visual services, community relations, special events (these events were
handled during the year by the Smithsonian Museum Service and are reported
under that heading herein, p. 433), and activities associated with these areas. The
work of the Office is organized into the following components: News (George J.
Berklacy), film and broadcasting (William C. Grayson), and special events
(Meredith Johnson).

43]
432 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967

Armed Forces Radio in a continuing effort. Plans moved ahead at the
same time for an interview series on commercial radio.

In the area of the written word, some 150 news releases in all areas
of Smithsonian activities were issued. Included in these were the first
in a continuing series of “featurettes’’ providing feature-article handling
of topics of general interest.

Major events that required more than routine effort in this connection
included the Smithsonian Symposium, ‘““The Quality of Man’s Environ-
ment,’’ inaugural ceremonies for the new Department of Transporta-
tion, the four-day Festival of American Folklife, and several major
hall and exhibit openings. Press coverage in the United States and
abroad reflected the breadth and diversity of Smithsonian programs.

The two monthly general news publications of the Smithsonian—the
employees’ Torch and The Smithsonian Associate for the 5,000 Washington
area members of this organization—became the responsibility of the
office during the year. An improved format was introduced for a third
office publication, the monthly Smithsonian Calendar of Events, now
distributed to 15,000 members of the press and public.

The Smithsonian’s Free Film Theater, which presents educational
films of broad interest every Wednesday night from October through
May, drew a cumulative audience of approximately 12,000 this year.
Each film was introduced by an expert in the subject area. These
included Smithsonian staff members, embassy personnel, and faculty
members of universities in the Washington area.

The weekly film program is the central focus for audio-visual library
activities that also include distribution of educational motion pictures,
slides, and still photographs throughout the country.

Locally a Dial-A-Museum recorded telephone information service
was instituted to provide up-to-the-minute information on the day’s
events and the highlights of new exhibits. It parallels the established
Dial-A-Satellite service that presents information on artificial satellites
and other celestial objects visible overhead. Some 25,000 incoming
Dial-A-Museum calls were recorded in the first ten months of operation.
The figure on Dial-A-Satellite, material for which is provided by the
Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory for use in Washington and
other cities, was more than 126,000.
Smithsonian Museum Service

JAMES R. Morris, Director

CTIVITIES OF THE MUSEUM SERVICE were expanded to include projects
A in the performing arts in addition to its special events programs,
planning for exhibitions, lectures, hall openings, musical events,
seminars and conferences, movies and entertainments, and numerous
visitors’ services.

A carousel was in evidence on the Mall during the summer for the
enjoyment of the thousands of children visiting the Smithsonian
museums. The Mall terrace of the Museum of History and Technology
was the scene of concerts by the United States Marine Band, the
United States Army Field Band, and an evening of Bavarian folk
dancing in which the audience participated.

James R. Morris, who was appointed Director in October, brings
to the position an extensive professional background in the arts, both
in management and production, which will be valuable in the develop-
ment of cultural programs in a variety of media, such as Sound and
Light, readings and concerts, films, live demonstrations, and special
exhibitions.

The Sound and Light production is anticipated as a regular event
on the Mall, to begin in 1968. The presentation will provide a varied
and exciting 50-minute panorama of the Institution and the related
history of the City of Washington, and will bring to life the remarkable
personalities and achievements of the Institution in the dramatic
context of the growth of the Capital and the Nation. Also in the plan-
ning stage is an extensive musical program. The Smithsonian Institution,
with its resources for research and its collection of early instruments,
for example, represents an ideal center for a resident chamber-music
group.

Throughout the fall, winter, and spring the Junior League docents
conducted weekend tours of the Museum of History and Technology
for the general public, for Congressional constituents, and for numerous
organized groups, including many from the foreign community.
Mrs. Nicholas Paul was an active and effective chairman of the group.

During the year approximately fifty Girl Scouts were trained as
information aides and worked on weekends during the winter and on
a full schedule in the summer in three of the buildings.

433
434 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967

Visitors services included preparation of revised floor plans of the
Museum of Natural History, the Arts and Industries building, and the
Museum of History and Technology (these plans are being translated
into French and Spanish), and the distribution of such other guides as
the Smithsonian Institution leaflets.

Among the special events arranged by the Museum Service were
the visits of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Korea, the President
of the Republic of Turkey, the wife of the Vice President of Nationalist
China, and the wife of the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of
Germany, as well as presentations of the Robert J. Collier Trophy
and awards of the Hodgkins and Langley Medals. Two major enter-
tainments of the year were the dinners on February 21 and 22, the
first for the Washington Diplomatic Corps, co-hosted by the Chief
of Protocol and Mrs. Symington, the second for those members of the
Congress most closely connected with the Smithsonian. At the latter
the Vice President swore in the members of the American Revolution
Bicentennial Commission.

April 1 marked the commencement of the third annual spring-
summer season of events, and of the night-open hours for Smithsonian
Museums. On that day, also, was celebrated the establishment of the
Department of Transportation. The theme of the day was a Pageant
of Transportation in which all facets of the world of transportation
were represented by demonstrations of equipment, special exhibits,
and appropriate ceremonies. The new Secretary of Transportation
was introduced, with his staff, and events continued throughout the
day and evening, including service bands and units. Attendance
totaled more than 100,000.
Smithsonian Associates

Lisa SUTER, Program Director

OST GRATIFYING AND HEARTENING is the dramatic growth of the
Smithsonian Associates, in which the membership has increased
from 1500 to over 4000 within a year.

Activities of the Associates spread in many directions and reached
into many new areas. Major emphasis was placed on the development
of a junior program. Zoo morning talks on ‘What is a Reptile?,”’
‘‘What is a Bird?,’”’ and ‘‘What is a Mammal?” offered young Associates
the chance to learn about animals by seeing and even touching some
of them. Naturalists on the staff conducted Botany Tours, Bird Walks,
Insect Walks, Fossil Hunts, and Rock Hunts in nearby parks and
quarries.

The first of what will be an annual Kite Carnival was presented
jointly with the National Air and Space Museum. Over a thousand
kite enthusiasts of all ages responded to talks on the origins, varieties,
and uses of kites, to kite-making workshops and flying demonstrations,
and to the kite contest on the Mall. Colorful kites from all parts of
the world were displayed for a month in the Museum of Natural His-
tory to demonstrate the pleasures of kite flying.

Perhaps for the first time in a museum, organized classes were con-
ducted by scientists in an experimental program for four- and five-year
olds. Through field trips and lectures the youngsters were introduced
to our natural surroundings while their mothers attended coffee
discussions.

Over 2500 students ranging in age from 4 to 83 were enrolled in the
subscription seminars and workshops for young people and adults,
started by the Associates last fall. In these, 75 courses, comprising
578 lectures, were taught in antiques, art, archeology, anthropology,
astronomy, aviation, botany, mammals, minerals, mathematics, music,
sea life, space science, philately, oceanography, natural history, and
general science.

G. Carroll Lindsay, who resigned as Executive Secretary of the Asso-
ciates last August, returned from Albany to give a seminar on con-
noisseurship at Belmont, the Smithsonian’s handsome new conference
center in Elkridge, Maryland.

Proceeds from a benefit ‘““Evening with the Santa Maria” enabled

435
436 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967

Members of the Smithsonian Associates digging at Plum Point, Maryland,
during a fossil hunt in May.

Curator Charles Handley shows
young Associates how to skin a
mouse and prepare the skin for
preservation.

SMITHSONIAN ASSOCIATES 437

Zoo Morning Talk with young Smithsonian Associates: “The elephant’s big
ears help him hear better.”

Ne

ee RT Bee

438 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967

212 students to attend classes without charge. Scholarships were
awarded to 163 area children and to 49 senior citizens and Job Corps —
youth. As their first official activity, the Ladies Committee presented
a successful benefit preview of the movie Grand Prix which will enable
another 250 scholarship students to attend this year.

The proceeds from three series of luncheon talks were used to send
speakers to nursing homes, orphanages, hospitals, and other welfare
institutions whose residents were unable to come to the Smithsonian. ©
Luncheon talks by staff curators presented “‘Mainstreams of American
Art,” “The Agitator in America,” ‘‘Females, Ladies and Women,”
*‘Art and Anthropology,” “‘Gem Lore,’ and “The Land of Punt.”

Membership lectures acquainted Associates with the diversity of
the Smithsonian’s activities. “‘Secrets of the Smithsonian’’ were revealed
in a behind-the-scenes tour of exhibit production, and in special family
tours of all exhibit buildings and the zoo. Fine performances by the
Madison Madrigal Singers and the Santa Barbara Madrigal Singers
supplemented the Institution’s active music program.

Members were invited to 15 previews, among which were the
exhibitions Recent Acquisitions of the National Portrait Gallery, The United
States Exhibition at the XXXIII Venice Biennale, 1966, and William
Glackens in Retrospect, and the opening of the growth of America hall.
An entertaining history of the art of American motion pictures, featur-
ing ‘““The Comedy,” ‘““The Western,” ‘“The Serials,”’ ““The Musical,’
“The Star System,” and ‘“‘The Spectacle,” was presented through
selected scenes from the early silents to the varied experiments of today.

The Associate, an illustrated newsletter containing articles on Smith-
sonian research projects, field expeditions, exhibitions, acquisitions,
and programs, began bimonthly publication in January.

Recently innovated sales exhibitions, sponsored jointly with the
Museum Shops, offered members special discounts and the chance to
preview works before they were offered to the public. Associate
volunteers mounted and framed the first two exhibitions: Applique
Molas Made by the Cuna Indians of the San Blas Islands, Panama, and
Childrens’ Embroideries from Peru.

A volunteer program was started to encourage personal involvement
of members in the Institution’s activities and growth. Several hundred
Associates who offered their assistance to the professional staff for
periods from a few hours a month to full time are being matched by
education, skills, and experience with jobs at the Smithsonian or with
ones that can be done at home.

A new vitality has been created by this close interplay between the
Smithsonian’s professional staff and an interested public. The extent
of its reach is an exciting speculation.
Administrative Support Services

The Smithsonian Institution’s unique complex of museums, art
galleries, zoological park, laboratories, and information centers re-
quire certain administrative and technical support services to meet
the needs of its various programs. A number of groups serve the
Institution in this capacity and by so doing contribute to its accomplish-
ments in research, education, exhibitions, and public service.

The office of programming and budget, in preparing the Smith-
sonian’s budget presentations to the President and the Congress, and in
response to the President’s interest in applying planning-programming
techniques to the budget process whenever feasible, gave particular
emphasis to organizing the Institution’s work into a program structure.
The supply division handled well in excess of 10,000 purchases, in-
cluding orders for such unusual items as a life-size model of a mule,
sunken treasure, a 14-foot replica of a grasshopper, and ostrich hackle.
Participation in the Government property-utilization program brought
to the Smithsonian a Titan missile, two tons of silver coins, a rocket
sled, and a turn-of-the-century counting machine.

The fiscal division worked toward a revision of its accounting system
to provide improved reporting and control for financial management
and budget purposes. A new and comprehensive accounting manual
was prepared.

The information systems division provided automatic-data-processing
support to the administrative, curatorial, and research activities. In
addition to routine payroll, accounting, mailing lists, library pur-
chasing, and other business applications, an information retrieval
system using 200 descriptors was developed for the collection of 20,000
covers in the division of philately. This indexing and cross-referencing
system provides prompt responses to the reference needs of researchers,
collectors, and the general public. Similarly, an analysis program was
prepared to assist in the correlation of biological and other specimen
data. In such a cluster-analysis program, somewhat simplified, a
scientist first classifies small groups of biological specimens on which
certain characters have been measured. A computer program calculates
a ‘measure of similarity’ for each group and then clusters the groups
by the magnitude of their resemblance. The program and the method-
ology are equally applicable to non-biological categories. In archeology,
for example, it could apply to grouping and breaking the code of
unknown hieroglyphs from series of artifacts of an extinct culture.

439
Design of an information storage and retrieval system for biological
and geological data was completed and is being implemented. The
system provides a data bank containing collection records and descrip-
tive and bibliographic information on zoological and geological
specimens. Participating in the project are the National Museum of
Canada and Universidad Nacional Auténoma de México.

The buildings management department operated, maintained, im-
proved, and protected over three million square feet of building space,
as well as other property in the Washington area; it guarded 60
million objects of cultural, historical, scientific, and technological
importance; and it gave information, directions, or other assistance
to the more than 13 million visitors who viewed the public exhibits.
The department performed a variety of special engineering, design,
repair, fabrication, transportation, communication, and safety services
in support of Smithsonian work. The moves of the National Collection
of Fine Arts and the National Portrait Gallery into the newly renovated
Fine Arts and Portrait Galleries building were accomplished. Work
continued toward preparing this building for opening to the public in
1968. Expanded cultural and educational activities, including those
on the Mall, were reflected in greatly increased requirements for
buildings management services. More than 1,100 meetings, seminars,
lectures, concerts, special exhibitions, and other events received
assistance. The department provided extensive alterations and modifica-
tions to the Arts and Industries and other buildings in order to make
space available for new and expanding activities. A strengthened
accident-prevention program led by the Safety Office resulted in a
reduced number of injuries to Smithsonian employees and earned the
Institution the President’s Safety Award.

The personnel division conducted employee health and training
programs: glaucoma testing and tetanus shots were made available
to employees, and special physical examinations were given scientists
planning arduous fieldwork such as underwater research. Training
sessions to develop supervisory skills were attended by approximately
150 employees, and the division administered a year-round program
of on-the-job training for 30 to 40 youths under the Neighborhood
Youth Corps Program. In addition, the Institution provided summer
jobs for some 60 young persons under the President’s Youth Oppor-
tunity Program. ;

The photographic services division produced almost a quarter of a
million photographs and slides to meet research, exhibition, education,
and public service needs, and the division started work on an index of
the photographic resources of the Institution.

440 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967
ADMINISTRATIVE SUPPORT SERVICES 441

A central travel services office was established in November 1966
to assist Smithsonian travelers in planning trips including economical
routings, making reservations, arranging accommodations, and obtain-
ing tickets. By the end of June, over 750 domestic and 280 foreign
travel itineraries were processed, 3,200 air and rail reservations made,
and 200 hotel and motel accommodations obtained. Special attention
was given to travel arrangements for the foreign currency program of the
office of international activities.

The office of the general counsel, the Smithsonian archives, the
contracts office, the organization and methods division, the central
files, and the duplicating section all furnished administrative and
technical support to the office of the Secretary, and to bureaus and
other Institution organization units.
(i cRIVaRe eneee piv:

ert he) ivvroe is sit inde
(SeeeBnitte? vt a nye rr
HES by ahi. nidiAbuied war alg ShOsare
felis poi OOS” Bd i ets we sie will): Wo Nisy he:
Htoluy Ef inlet ral Thay | Re me Nae
Ce eh WANs i an ftcte Dry Mites Nr Gens POU, Br
sis Wingil se ey iby hah tw nara asautr» Mira). |
a BYTE jhe 3"
ih ened Re d hatabityiticd ha Mer hRe) lieraiiy yale he
tenis Ese AL Sap: Lida ely gilt iis ae
fw ," SUM E TET isthig here nae haat ti Hon: ye wath
hae tA ah baw FRR ne aa ani ‘SiR Oe
; vV wish icin a

cada
a"? Pi il! 0
RS

: !
ad A |
bay U
i " ) ¥
t
i
F oe
4 i si
aay
a ee es i
bs
\ -y"
an Thi}? wae

jyeleae (0) Me? yeeeere ty ae

¥ alah Cine Bie oes
MD os

Appendix

REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS
OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30,

1967
SMITHSONIAN FOREIGN CURRENCY PROGRAM GRANTS AWARDED, FISCAL

YEAR 1967

PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION PRESS FOR THE YEAR
ENDED JUNE 30, 1967

SMITHSONIAN ASSOCIATES

MEMBERS OF THE SMITHSONIAN COUNCIL, JUNE 30, 1967

RESEARCH PARTICIPATION PROGRAMS, APPOINTMENTS 1966-1967

STAFF OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, JUNE 30, 1967

443
x ibjoga A.

‘

it a
kTRHOUS HO teabe JOT wo EET DIMM) <>. wert ee

Of MAUL GIN Baty FMe Nios, Korrirerreuy AOE te
RA i

©
]
iSore era Wws xivie dD WASLOR* POMSARUT ACO
—

(or 0) Sara

aa CRRA

foot 0 agruy ooo Hoard aia oO
COI OYE IWIO RM 4 SMAROOR MOT ATE Att

_

Toe!) 0S SAUL, .MOYTOPITSA? WALAG2 Te

LANY SY 2 SRR" MOCUWITE Re MAI MOLH TIM SP ae

—_) 7

Pp
1¥.

Report of the Executive Committee of the Board of
Regents of the Smithsonian Institution

For the Year Ended June 30, 1967

To THE BoarD OF REGENTS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION:

Your executive committee respectfully submits the following report
in relation to the funds of the Smithsonian Institution, together with a
statement of the appropriations by Congress for the Government bu-
reaus in the administrative charge of the Institution.

PARENT FUND

The original bequest of James Smithson was £104,960 8s 6d
($508,318.46). Refunds of money expended in prosecution of the
claim, freight, insurance, and other incidental expenses, together
with payment into the fund of the sum of £5,015, which had been
withheld during the lifetime of Madame de la Batut, brought
the fund to the amount of $550,000.

The gift of James Smithson was “‘lent to the United States Treasury,
at 6 per centum per annum interest’”’ (20 U.S.C. 54) and by the Act
of March 12, 1894 (20 U.S.C. 55) the Secretary of the Treasury was
‘authorized to receive into the Treasury, on the same terms as the
original bequest of James Smithson, such sums as the Regents may,
from time to time see fit to deposit, not exceeding, with the original
bequest the sum of $1,000,000.”

The maximum of $1,000,000 which the Smithsonian Institution
was authorized to deposit in the Treasury of the United States was
reached on January 11, 1917, by the deposit of $2,000.

Under the above authority the amounts shown on the following page
are deposited in the United States Treasury and draw 6 percent interest.

In addition to the $1,000,000 deposited in the Treasury of the United
States there has been accumulated from income and bequests the
sum of $9,964,359 which has been invested. Of this sum, $8,647,226
is carried on the books of the Institution as the Consolidated Fund,
a policy approved by the Regents at their meeting on December 14,
1916.

445
446 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967—-APPENDIX 1

SourcES: SMITHSONIAN Funp DEposiITED IN U.S. TREASURY

Donor
James Smithson .
Avery
Habel
Hamilton .
Hodgkins (Geaeral))
Poore ASSES
Rhees
Sanford

Hodgkins (Specific)
Reid . sete:

Unre-
stricted
funds

$727, 640
14, 000
500

2, 500
116, 000
26, 670
590

1, 100

Restricted
funds

100, 000

11, 000

CONSOLIDATED FUND

$889, 000

111, 000

$1, 000, 000

[Income for the unrestricted use of the Institution]

Fund
Abbott, W. L., Special
*Avery, Robert S., and Lydia
Forrest, Robert Lee .

Gifts, royalties, gain on sale of securities

Goddard, Robert, Memorial Fund
Hachenberg, George P., and Caroline
*Hamilton, James
Hart, Gustavus E.
Henry, Caroline L
Henry, Joseph and Hance pA
Higbee, Harry, Memorial Fund .
*Hodgkins, Thomas G. (General)
Morrow, Dwight W.
Olmsted, Helen A. :
*Poore, Lucy T. and Géotge W.
Porter, Henry Kirke .
*Rhees, William Jones
*Sanford, George H. .
*Smithson, James
Taggart, Gansen
Witherspoon, Thomas A

Total

Investment
1967
$24, 753
65, 611

1, 898, 832
458, 632

15, 018
6, 602
671

809

2, 009
81, 431
2185
50, 318
128, 453
Ls o2
270, 399
475, 715
786

1, 479
34, 546
596
214, 359

$3, 754, 166

*In addition to funds deposited in the United States Treasury.

Income

1967
$43, 659
840
30

46

115

4, 589

913

2, 823

7, 226

74

15, 402
26, 676
45

83

2, 318

42

12, 019

181, 866
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE

CONSOLIDATED FuND

[Income restricted to specific use]

Fund

Abbott, William L., for investigations in biology . . .

Armstrong, Edwin James, for use of Department of
Invertebrate Paleontology when principal amounts
to $5,000.00.

Arthur, James, for investigations and study of the sun
and annual lecture on same.

Bacon, Virginia Purdy, for traveling scholarship to in-
vestigate fauna of countries other than the United
States.

Baird, Lucy H., for creating a memorial to Secretary
Baird.

Barney, Alice Pike, for collection of paintings and
pastels and for encouragement of American artistic
endeavor.

Barstow, Frederick D., for purchase of animals for
Zoological Park.

Brown, Roland W., endowment fund-study, care and
improvement of the Smithsonian paleo-botanical
collections.

Canfield collection, for increase and care of the Can-
field collection of minerals.

Casey, Thomas L., for maintenance of the Casey col-
lection and promotion of researches relating to
Coleoptera.

Chamberlain, Francis Lea, for increase and promotion
of Isaac Lea Collection of gems and mollusks.
Division of Mammals Curators Fund, for support of

scientific purposes.

Dykes, Charles, for support in financial research .

Eickemeyer, Florence Brevoort, for preservation and
exhibition of the photographic collection of
Rudolph Eickemeyer, Jr.

Guggenheim, David and Florence, Foundation for a
commemorative Guggenheim Exhibit, an annual
Daniel Guggenheim Lecture, and annual Guggen-
heim Fellowships for graduate students for research
at the National Air Museum.

Hanson, Martin Gustav and Caroline Runice, for some
scientific work of the Institution, preferably in
in chemistry or medicine.

Hillyer, Virgil, for increase and care of Virgil Hillyer
collection of lighting objects.

Hitchcock, Albert S., for care of the Hitchcock Agro-

stological Library.

Hrdlicka, Ales and Marie, to further researches in physi-

cal anthropology and publication in connection
therewith.

Investment
1967

$173, 169
2, 626

66, 432

83, 220

60, 881

47, 642

1, 661

Gey Sey

63, 659

20, 821

46, 776

447

Income
1967

9, 709
119
3, 728

4, 668

3, 333

2, 671

93

2, 548

4, 108

1, 168

2, 623

143
4, 009
1,012

1, 608

828

612
149

4, 686
448

SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967——-APPENDIX 1

CONSOLIDATED Funp—Continued

Fund

Hughes, Bruce, to found Hughes alcove

Johnson, E. R. Fenimore, research in Sieseatn Bee
tography.

Lindsay, Jessie M. H., for the general use of the institu-
tion as specified by the donor.

Loeb, Morris, for furtherance of knowledge in the exact
sciences.

Long, Annette and Edith C., for upkeep and preserva-
tion of Long collection of embroideries, laces, and
textiles.

Maxwell, Mary E., for care and exhibition of Maxwell
collection.

Myer, Catherine Walden, for purchase of first-class
works of art for use and benefit of the National Col-
lection of Fine Arts.

Nelson, Edward W., for support of biological studies .

Noyes, Frank B., for use in connection with the col-
lection of dolls placed in the U.S. National Museum
through the interest of Mr. and Mrs. Noyes.

Pell, Cornelia Livingston, for maintenance of Alfred
Duane Pell collection.

Petrocelli, Joseph, for the care of the Petrocelli col-
lection of photographic prints and for the enlarge-
ment and development of the section of photog-
raphy of the U.S. National Museum.

Rathbun, Richard, for use of division of U.S. National
Museum containing Crustacea.

*Reid, Addison T., for founding chair in biology, in
memory of Asher Tunis.

Roebling Collection, for care, improvement, and in-
crease of Roebling collection of minerals.

Roebling Solar Research ee

Rollins, Miriam and William, for pvesueaens in
physics and chemistry.

Smithsonian employees’ retirement

Smithsonian Institution and THF .

Sprague Fund, for the advancement of the Bihvaical
sciences.

Springer, Frank, for care and increase of the Springer
collection and library.

Stevenson, John A., Mycological Library Fund, for
care, maintenance, and additions to the Library.

Strong, Julia D., for benefit of the National Collection

of Fine Arts.

Walcott, Charles D. and Mary Vaux, for development

of geological and paleontological studies and
publishing results of same.

Investment
1967

$31, 795
13, 910
10, 679

144, 797

902

32, 581
33, 552
39, 501

1, 597

12, 314

12319

17, 668
99, 545
200, 467

41, 608
265, 396

23, 665
7, 615
1, 977, 357
29, 787
10, 005
16, 609

936, 803

*In addition to funds deposited in the United States Treasury.

Income
1967

1, 785

613
1, 035
8, 258

53

1, 829

1, 881

2, 071

94

695

693

996
1, 326
11, 237

2, 141
13, 458

784
301
79, 036
1, 670
509

1, 266

51, 566
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 449

CONSOLIDATED FuNp—Continued

Investment Income

Fund 1967 1967
Walcott, Mary Vaux, for publication in botany . . . 96, 106 5, 200
Zerbee, Francis Brinckle, forendowment of aquaria . . 1, 576 88
pRotaleee We. ee Ore hen cee. oe tee ee. OG 452 236, 400

FREER GALLERY OF ART FUND

Early in 1906, by deed of gift, Charles L. Freer, of Detroit, gave to
the Institution his collection of Chinese and other Oriental objects of
art, as well as paintings, etchings, and other works of art by Whistler,
Thayer, Dewing, and other artists. Later he also gave funds for con-
struction of a building to house the collection, and finally in his will,
probated November 6, 1919, he provided stocks and securities to the
estimated value of $1,958,591 as an endowment fund for the operation
of the Gallery. The fund now amounts to $12,107,418.

SUMMARY OF ENDOWMENTS

Invested endowment for general purposes . . . a Mee pos O50, 906

Invested endowment for specific purposes other en Precr endow- 5, 132, 453
ment.

Total invested endowment other than Freer... .... . 10, 964, 359

Freer invested endowment for specific purposes. . ....... 12, 107, 418

Total invested endowment for all purposes Cea y SAEED SO AIA

CLASSIFICATION OF INVESTMENTS

Deposited in the U.S. Treasury at 6 percent per annum, as authorized $1, 000, 000
in the U S. Revised Statutes, sec. 5591.

Investments other than Freer endowment (cost or market value at
date acquired):

IBONGSH jek ee EE LY SEER LO Cs ESM7 6725781

Stocksas, ain. ’ HIRED, Fe SMES MS ASEAN TOSS:

Real estate and mereanes Pe Mind! SEER ER IAD PS 1, 303, 741

Wuimvestedicapitall -2as 7) ws ee 52, 754 9, 964, 359
Total investments other than Freer endowment. 10, 964, 359

Investments of Freer endowment (cost or market value
at date acquired):

IBONGS ig mith) oe ysis > Wek ie ae tee We 2-6 SI OFAOSS
StOckS iso 5.0 he Sos bots cet Bee’ 4048536

Advanced from aniek peated i iIncomeny ee (4, 752) 12, 107, 418

Motalnvestmentss.seeue es ss $23, 071, 777
450 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967—-APPENDIX 1

GIFTs AND BEQUEsTS

The Smithsonian Institution gratefully acknowledges gifts

quests from the following:

AnonyMous Donor: For the Botany Research Project.

AMERICAN PETROLEUM INstTITUTE: For research entitled The Crustose
Corallines of the North Atlantic.

ARCHBOLD FounpDATION: For the Biological Survey of Dominica Project.

BLAISDELL PuBLisHING Co.: To publish a manuscript entitled Jntro-
duction to the Theory of Stellar Atmosphere.

Harpy JEFFERSON Bowen: For the Bowen-Andros Island Expedition Fund.

Morris AND GWENDOLYN Carritz FounDATIOoN: For the purchase of
a stabile designed by Alexander Calder.

CENTER FOR THE StuDY OF Democratic INsTITUuTIONS: To commission
ten original drawings for a conference in Switzerland.

Epmonp DeEBeEer: To the National Portrait Gallery for Kinsley Adams.

DEPARTMENT OF ComMERCE: For the division of electricity.

Division oF MinerRALoGy: For the William F. Foshag Memorial Fund.

EXPLORERS RESEARCH CORPORATION: For the Bermuda Expedition—
Summer 1967.

THe DANIEL AND FLORENCE GUGGENHEIM FounDaATION: For the com-
memorative Guggenheim Exhibit, an annual Daniel Guggenheim
Lecture, and annual Guggenheim Fellowships for graduate students
for research at the National Air Museum.

SusaAN Morse Hites: To the National Collection of Fine Arts for a
G. W. Rickey piece of sculpture.

FeLix AND HELEN JuDA Founpation: To the Freer Gallery of Art for
the purchase of collections.

INTERNATIONAL BusINEss MACHINES CorpPoRATION: In support of the
Smithsonian’s Sound and Light production.

Junior LEAGUE OF THE CiTy oF WAsHINGTON, D.C.: For a supervisory
docent to train volunteers for the Education and Training museum
program.

THe KevorkiAN Founpation: For the publication of Indian sculp-
tures in the Freer Gallery of Art.

Craupia B. KipweELt: For the Historic Dresses Fund.

Tue Link Founpation:

For support of the Third Annual Edwin A. Link Lecture.
For support of the Fourth Annual Edwin A. Link Lecture.

MacMILian Company: To the National Collection of Fine Arts for
reproducing and enlarging negatives related to the book, movie, and
exhibition, 7o Be Alive.

Ura C. Merzpacu: For the division of physical sciences.

J. JEFFERSON MILLER II: For Gardner-Miller Ceramics and Glass
Fund.

Minkus Stamp JouRNAL: For the Philatelic Fund.

NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC SOCIETY:

For research entitled Survey of Deep Water Wreck Sites in Bermuda.
For research entitled Exploration and Analysis of a 16th-Century Shipwreck,
Central Bahamas.

and _ be-

$5, 000
10, 000

15, 000
500

1, 153
40, 000

15, 000
279
100
535

9, 000

25, 000

20, 000
279
10, 000

5, 000

16, 785
75

2, 300

4, 000

15

100

160
45, 715
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE

For research entitled Visual Observations of Sedimentation Patterns in
Submarine Canyon Heads.

To defray travel costs to Australia for E. P. Henderson.

To study the ecology of echinoids in the Florida Keys.

For research entitled Marine Mollusks of the Marquesas Islands and
Pitcairn Group.

For the study of Sharns in Copper Mountain Mining District,
Alaska.

Jack E. Ortincer: To defray costs of salvaging, restoring, and
preserving the U.S.S. Tecumseh.

Mrs. KENNETH DALE Owen: To defray travel expenses for Richard
H. Howland.

Pirney Bowes, Inc.: To the division of philately and postal history.

Marjorie MERRIWEATHER Post: For photographing objects by
Madame Rosso.

RESEARCH CorPoRATION: For the Ivy Neck properties.

Tue RICHARDSON FouNDATION, INc.: For the Commission of White
House Fellows.

BERNARD T. Rocca: To the Rocca Fund.

Sipney N. Suure: To purchase further supplies for mounting the
collection donated by the Sidney N. Shure Fund.

THe SIDNEY PRINTING AND PUBLISHING Company: For the increase
and diffusion of numismatic knowledge in the United States.

C. R. Smitu: To the National Collection of Fine Arts for the Art-in-
the-Embassies Program.

SoutH PaprE IsLAND SHELL CiusB: To defray travel expenses of
Harold A. Rehder.

JosepH W. SpracuE Funp: Final settlement of a bequest from the
late Joseph White Sprague to establish a fund for the advancement
of the physical sciences.

STANDARD O1L Company oF New Jersey: For the completion of the
Mississippi River Delta model for the hall of petroleum.

Tue Tarcet Rock Founpation, Inc.: To the National Collection of
Fine Arts.

Texaco, Inc.: For the construction of four half-models of oil tankers
for the hall of petroleum.

University OF MicuicANn: To the Freer Gallery of Art for the Ars
Orientalis Fund.

Lita AcHESON WALLACE FounpatIon: For the extra developments of
the program for the division of musical instruments.

C. Matcotm Warkins: For buying folk pottery for the division of
cultural history.

Francis C. WeEtcuH: For the New England Textile Mill Survey Project.

WENNER-GREN FOUNDATION:

For research entitled Cooperative Field Work in Rapidly Changing Cultures.
For an analysis of Wilkes collection of Polynesian artifacts.
CHarRLes M. WormseEr: For the Moritz Wormser Memorial Fund.

45]

10
15

500
1, 000

100, 000
20, 500

300
100

1, 000
500
208

161, 497

1, 000
900
3, 290
3, 000
5, 000
100
200

10, 500

200

The Smithsonian Institution gratefully acknowledges gifts, for the

special purposes indicated, from the following:
452

For the Bosch Mineral Collection:

Mrs. C. Belz
Robert C. Nelson, Jr.
Franklin Ogdensburg Mineral Society

For the Botany Library Fund:

Anonymous donor

For the Chesapeake Bay Center for Field Biology:

Max C. Fleischmann Foundation of

Nevada '

For the Jeanne Toor Cummings Fund:

Mrs. Nathan Cummings

For the Charles Darwin Foundation Fund:

Harold Coolidge
E. Yale Dawson

For the Dawson Memorial Fund:

Dr. and Mrs. D. Abbott
J. L. Barnard
Department of Botany
Dr. R. L. Pressler

K. O. Emery

For the Freer Gallery of Art:
H. P. Kraus

For the National Collection of Fine Arts? Knoedler Fund:

Margaret Nalle
Mr. and Mrs. S. G. Edwards

For the Neighborhood Museum:

Lucian B. Platt
Anne S. Richardson Fund

For the Pageant of Transportation:

Aerospace Industries Association of
America, Inc.

Air Line Pilots Association International

Air Transport Association

American Petroleum Institute.

American Road Builders’ Association

American Trucking Association, Inc.

Association of American Railroads

Association of Local Transport Airlines

SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967—-APPENDIX 1

$33, 125

Gem Lapidary and Mineral Society of
Montgomery County, Maryland

425
Robert A. Vines
80, 000
Old Dominion Foundation
Joo
Mrs. Julius W. Gilbert
1, 888
Mrs. Irving Johnson
Mrs. Cazenove Lee
5 15)
Sidney Galler
Hanover Insurance Group
Institucion Privada
G. F. Papenfuss
Paul C. Silva
1, 150
Ellen Bayard Weeden Foundation
925
Marjorie Phillips
Norman Holmes Pearson
27, 202

Whitney Museum of American Art
Eugene and Agnes Meyer Foundation

9, 450

Automobile Manufacturers Association,
Inc.

Automotive Safety Foundation

Brotherhood of Railroad Trainmen

Committee of American Steamship
Lines

Freight Forwarders Institute

National Association of Motor Bus
Owners
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE

National Defense Transportation As-
sociation

Railway Progress Institute

Rubber Manufacturers Association

The American Waterways Operators,
Inc.

For the History of Photography Purchase Fund:

George Eastman House
Polaroid Corporation

For the Marjorie Merriweather Post Fund:

Count V. Alderberg

His Excellency, The Ambassador of
Kuwait and Madame Al-Ghoussein

The Honorable and Mrs. Clinton P.
Anderson

Admiral and Mrs. George W. Anderson

Mr. and Mrs. H. Loy Anderson

His Excellency, The Ambassador of
Panama and Madame Arias

Mr. and Mrs. James Y. Arnold

Commander and Mrs. Clyde B. Ault

Miss Madeleine Austin

Mr. Robert Calhoun Baker

Mrs. W. Edwards Beach

Mrs. Walter E. Beach

The Honorable and Madame Guillermo
de Belt

Lady Birley

The Princess Cito di Bitetto

Mrs. Robert Woods Bliss

Mrs. B. Pleydell Bouverie

Mr. and Mrs. Willis Boyd

Doreen The Lady Brabourne

General and Mrs. Omar N. Bradley

Donna Julia Brambilla

Mr. A. Marvin Braverman

Mr. and Mrs. E. Fontaine Broun

Mr. and Mrs. Leon Brown

The Honorable and Mrs. Percival F.
Brundage

The Honorable and Mrs. Wiley T.
Buchanan, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. George R. Bunker

Dr. and Mrs. Robert C. Burt

Mrs. Harold W. Cannella

The Princess Cantacuzene

Mr. Charles T. Carey

Dr. and Mrs. Leonard Carmichael

Mr. and Mrs. Leslie E. Carpenter

Miss Geni Chester

453

The Common Carrier Conference of
Domestic Water Carriers

The National Industrial Traffic League

Transportation Association of America

$3, 750

Time, Inc.

35, 300

The Honorable and Mrs. Cyrus Ching

Mr. Justice and Mrs. Thomas C. Clark

Mr. and Mrs. Robert L. Clarkson

Sir Bede and Lady Clifford

Mr. and Mrs. Clark M. Clifford

Mr. and Mrs. David P. Close

Mr. Marvin J. Coles

Mr. and Mrs. Donald L. Colvin

Mr. and Mrs. John T. Connor

Mr. and Mrs. C. W. Cook

Mr. and Mrs. Harold Jefferson Coolidge

The Honorable and Mrs. John Sherman
Cooper

Mr. and Mrs. Raymond E. Cox

Mrs. W. Philip Cox

The Honorable and Madame Cretzianu

Mr. and Mrs. Francis X. Crowley

Mr. and Mrs. J. A. B. Dahlgren

Mr. and Mrs. Freeman J. Daniels

Mr. and Mrs. Harry R. Davidson

Major General and Mrs. Howard C.
Davidson

Mr. and Mrs. Andre de Limur

Dr. and Mrs. Lowell Russell Ditzen

Miss Alice L. C. Dodge

Mrs. James P. Donahue

Mr. and Mrs. M. Dorland Doyle

Mr. and Mrs. Henry A. Dudley

Mr. Franklin A. Durr

General and Mrs. Dwight D. Eisenhower
Mr. and Mrs. Shearen D. Elebash
Mr. Douglas L. Elliman

Mr. Alfred W. Englehardt

Mr. Erik J. H. Eriksen

Captain and Mrs. Evert Eriksson
Mr. and Mrs. Benjamin C. Evans, Jr.
Miss Meta Evans

Mrs. Herbert Farrell
454

His Excellency, The Ambassador of
Italy and Madame Fenoaltea

Judge and Mrs. Homer Ferguson

Mrs. Harold Fitzgerald

The Honorable and Mrs. John Clifford
Folger

The Honorable and Mrs. Hiram Fong

Miss Hank Fort

The Honorable and Mrs. Henry H.
Fowler

The Honorable and Mrs. William
Chapman Foster

Mrs. Carson G. Frailey

The Honorable and Mrs. Clarence
Francis

The Honorable and Mrs. J. William
Fulbright

Mrs. Lawrence C. Fuller

The Honorable James G. Fulton

The Honorable and Mrs. Arthur
Gardner

His Excellency, The Ambassador of
Portugal and Madame Garin

The Honorable and Mrs. George A.
Garrett

Judge and Mrs. Oliver Gasch

Mr. and Mrs. Leonard F. Genz

Mr. and Mrs. Charles Carroll Glover,
aie

Mr. and Mrs. Robert M. Gorrell

Major General Ulysses S. Grant III

The Honorable Robert Keith Gray

The Honorable Homer H. Gruenther

General and Mrs. Wade H. Haislip

Mr. and Mrs. Harris Hammond

Mr. and Mrs. Donald E. Handelman

Mr. and Mrs. Meyer Handelman

Mr. and Mrs. William L. Hanley

Mr. Channing W. Hare

General and Mrs. Franklin A. Hart

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Z. Hawkins

Mr. and Mrs. George W. Headley

Mr. and Mrs. Ray Henle

Mr. Stephen Hopkins Hensel

Mr. and Mrs. Kurt Hetzel

Mrs. J. Monroe Hewlett

Mr. Edward T. Howe

Mr. Richard H. Howland

Dr. and Mrs. R. Gordon Hoxie

Mr. and Mrs. John B. Hull

Miss Laura Hungerford

SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967——-APPENDIX 1

Rear Admiral and Mrs. Raymond P.
Hunter

Mrs. Patrick J. Hurley

Miss Carol Hynes

Mr. and Mrs. Carlton A. Johanson

Mr. and Mrs. James M. Johnston

His Excellency, The Ambassador of
Sweden and Madame Jonsson

Mr. and Mrs. Samuel H. Kauffmann

Mr. Thomas S. Kenan III

The Honorable and Mrs. Joseph P.
Kennedy

Mr. and Mrs. A. Atwater Kent

Dr. and Mrs. A. Atwater Kent, Jr.

Miss Beverly King

Mr. and Mrs. Ludlow King, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Milton W. King

Mr. and Mrs. Slocum Kingsbury

The Honorable and Mrs. James R.
Knott

Mrs. Katharine McCook Knox

Mr. and Mrs. Fritz-Alan Korth

The Honorable Fred Korth

Miss Verita Korth

Vice Admiral Emory Scot Land

Mrs. Clark J. Lawrence

Mrs. Sidney Kent Legare

Mr. and Mrs. George C. Leib

Lady Lewis

Miss Jane Lingo

Dr. and Mrs. George W. Lloyd

Mr. Grover Loening

Mr. and Mrs. John A. Logan

His Excellency, The Ambassador of
France and Madame Lucet

General and Mrs. Anthony C. McAuliffe

The Honorable and Mrs. John T.
McCone

Mrs. Robert R. McCormick

Mr. and Mrs. William P. McCracken

Brigadier General Godfrey T. McHugh

Mrs. J. P. McKinney

Mr. William J. McManus

Mr. Robert D. McMillen

The Honorable and Mrs. Douglas
MacArthur II

Mrs. Clarence MacKay

Mr. and Mrs. J. Noel Macy

Lt. Colonel and Mrs. William J.
Maddox, Jr.
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE

Mr. and Mrs. Edward P. Maffitt

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph F. Major

Mr. and Mrs. Elovius Mangor

Mr. James D. Mann

Mr. and Mrs. Daniel B. Markel

Rear Admiral and Mrs. Gene Markey

Mrs. George C. Marshall

Mr. and Mrs. Hunter S. Marston

Miss Cecilia B. Martin

Mr. and Mrs. Nathan L. Maryn

His Excellency, The Ambassador of
Greece and Madame Matsas

Mr. and Mrs. Herbert A. May, Jr.

Mr. Philip D. May

His Excellency, The Ambassador of
Spain and The Marquesa de Merry
del Val

The Honorable Perle Mesta

Mrs. Hope Ridings Miller

Dr. and Mrs. Howard Mitchell

Mr. and Mrs. C. Carroll Morgan

Mrs. Marion K. Morgan

Dr. and Mrs. William A. Morgan

Madame Wilhelm Munthe de Morgen-
stierne

Mr. and Mrs. Edgar Morris

Mrs. George Maurice Morris

Lt. General and Mrs. William H. Morris

Mr. and Mrs. Charles C. Mortimer

Mr. and Mrs. Charles A. Munn

His Excellency, The Ambassador of
India and Madame Nehru

Dr. and Mrs. Walter R. Newbern

Mr. Gerson Nordlinger, Jr.

Mrs. Bissett Norment

Mr. and Mrs. Barbu Niculescu

Colonel Serge Obolensky

Mrs. James R. Offield

Mrs. Rufus L. Patterson

His Excellency, The Ambassador of
Peru and Madame Pastor

Colonel C. Michael Paul

. Richard E. Pearson

. and Mrs. Peter Pelham

. and Mrs. John S. Pillsbury

Mr. and Mrs. Landra B. Platt

Mr. and Mrs. Charles W. Post

Dr. and Mrs. M. Hayward Post

Madame Edgar Prochnik

Mr. Gene Raymond

Mr. Justice and Mrs. Stanley F. Reed

455

Mrs. Ogden Reid

Mr. and Mrs. Charles Reinke

Mrs. Helen Rich

Mr. and Mrs. Eugene Henry Rietzke

Dr. John B. Riggs

Mr. and Mrs. S. Dillon Ripley II

Mr. John E. Rovensky

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Rogers

Major General and Mrs. William C.
Rose

Mr. and Mrs. Marvin C. Ross

Madame Augusto Rosso

Mr. J. Frederick Roy

Mr. and Mrs. Stephen Sanford

Mr. and Mrs. John Schapiro

His Excellency, The Ambassador of
Belgium and The Baroness Scheyven

Mr. and Mrs. Theodore C. Sheaffer

The Honorable and Mrs. Jouett Shouse

Major General and Mrs. Alden K.
Sibley

Miss Julia P. Sibley

Sigma Alpha Theta Sorority

Sigma Beta Epsilon Fraternity

Mr. and Mrs. Douglas R. Smith

Mr. and Mrs. Wendell Smith

Mr. and Mrs. Humphrey Statter

Mr. and Mrs. Theodore D. Stoney

Rear Admiral and Mrs. Lewis L. Strauss

Mrs. L. Corrin Strong

General and Mrs. Philip G. Strong

The Honorable and Mrs. John L.
Sullivan

Mr. and Mrs. Preston L. Sutphen

His Excellency, The Ambassador of
Japan and Madame Takeuchi

His Excellency, The Ambassador of
Venezuela and Madame Tejera-Paris

Mrs. Sigourney Thayer

The Honorable and Mrs.
Thompson

Madame Thor Thors

His Excellency, The Ambassador of
Chile and Madame Tomic

Mr. Carl W. Trent

Mr. and Mrs. Bronson Trevor

Mrs. John B. Trevor, Sr.

Mr. and Mrs. John B. Trevor, Jr.

Mr. Leonard W. Trimmer

Mrs. Francis B. Trudeau, Sr.

Dr. and Mrs. Francis B. Trudeau, Jr.

Clark W.
456

Mr. and Mrs. E. Russell True, Jr.

Mrs. Max O’Rell Truitt

The Honorable and Mrs. Joseph D.
Tydings

Mr. and Mrs. Andrew Van Pelt

Mr. and Mrs. Edward Van Pelt

Mrs. E. P. Van Zandt

The Honorable and Mrs. Jamshed
Vesugar

Mrs. Latimer Voigt

Mr. and Mrs. H. Alexander Walker

Miss Evelyn Walker

Mr. and Mrs. James N. Wallace

His Excellency, The Ambassador of
Australia and Mrs. Waller

Mr. and Mrs. Roy Garrett Watson

For the Victor Proetz Memorial Fund:

Miss Mary Allis

Mr. Alfonso Alverez

Mrs. A. W. Barnett

Mr. John W. Barnett

Mrs. Laura D. Barney

Dr. William G. Barrett
Captain Peter Belin

Miss Isadora Bennett

Mrs. Pemberton Berman

Mr. Newton P. Bevin

Mr. Louis C. Bodenheimer
Miss Marguerite A. R. Booraem
Mrs. Catherine Drinker Bowen
Mrs. Benjamin H. Brewster
Mr. Charles W. Brooks

Mr. John Nicholas Brown

Mr. John Young Brown

The Earl Mountbatten of Burma
Miss Madeleine E. Callard
Mrs. Alex Camp

Mrs. Marquis W. Childs

Mrs. Austin B. Chinn

Mr. and Mrs. Leonard de V. Clarke
Mr. and Mrs. Willson Cummer
Mrs. Edwin C. Custer

Mr. John Burton Custer

Mrs. C. Kenneth Deming

Mr. C. R. Duckels

Mrs. Peyton Hawes Dunn

Mrs. Tirzah Dunn

Mr. John G. Edgar

Mr. H. Cutler Fall

SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967—-APPENDIX |

Mr. and Mrs. Osby L. Weir

Mr. and Mrs. Edwin Borden White, Jr.

Mrs. Robert W. White

Mr. and Mrs. C. V. Whitney

Mrs. Searle Whitney

Mr. and Mrs. Howard E. Whittemore

Mr. George Livingston Williams

The Honorable and Mrs. Charles F.
Willis, Jr.

Mrs. Orme Wilson

Dr. and Mrs. Max Wolf

Mr. and Mrs. William G. Woodward

Mr. and Mrs. Burdette S. Wright, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. J. Bernard Wyckoff

Mrs. Robert R. Young

Mrs. Jorge Zalles

$8,961

Mrs. Henry T. Ferriss

Mr. David E. Finley

Mr. Henry Grattan

Mr. Ralph C. Hall

Mr. and Mrs. Paul L. Hexter
Mrs. Oveta Culp Hobby
Mr. William E. Katzenbach
Mrs. Abel Kenin

Mr. Edward Kessler

Mr. Robert M. Leylon

Mr. and Mrs. Kenneth R. McElheny
Mr. Paul McFarlane

Mr. Charles Nagel

Mrs. M. Burton Paradise
Mr. William Julius Polk, Jr.
Mr. Joseph Pulitzer, Jr.

Mr. Henry V. Putzel

Miss Margaret Ramsay

Mr. Frank C. Rand, Jr.
Mr. Robert H. Reid

Dr. E. P. Richardson

Miss Virginia Rice

Mr. Don W. Rogers, Jr.
Mr. Meyric R. Rogers

Dr. Frederick H. Scharles
Mr. Brooks Shepard, Jr.
Mrs. Thomas B. Sherman
Dr. Richard H. Shryock
Mr. Robert Gordon Stewart
Mrs. William G. Stott

Mr. Charles P. Thompson
Colonel Frederick P. Todd
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 457

Mr. Roul Tunley

Mr. Charles Van Ravenswaay
Mr. Phelps Warren

Mr. Henry Wexler

Miss Mary P. Wheeler

For the Sado Paulo Bienal Fund:

Best Products Company of Lynchburg
Mr. Jacob Blaustein

Mr. Huntington T. Block

Mrs. Edith K. Bralove

Mrs. Marcella Brenner

Mr. J. Carter Brown

Mr. William A. M. Burden

Mrs. Gwendolyn Cafritz

Miss June P. Carey

Miss Edith Newman Cook
Crown Zellerbach Corporation
Mr. C. Douglas Dillon

Mr. and Mrs. David E. Finley
Mrs. John Clifford Folger

Mr. Justice and Mrs. Abe Fortas
Mr. Wreatham E. Gathright
Mr. Ira Gershwin

For the Portrait of Ambassador Stevenson:

Mrs. Elizabeth Ives

For the Venice Biennale Fund:

Gollin Foundation, Inc.
Mrs. Sarah A. Jarman
The Honorable Robert S. McNamara

For unrestricted purposes:

Mr. Aaron J. Farfel
His Excellency, the Ambassador of
Germany, Heinrich Knappstein

Mr. Wayman Whettermore
Mr. Nelson C. White

Miss Emily M. Wilson
Mrs. Paul J. Zentay

$6,800

Mr. Henry H. Hecht, Jr.

Mrs. Arthur U. Hooper

International Telephone and Telegraph
Corporation

Mrs. Dora Jane Janson

Mrs. Ruth Carter Johnson

Albert Kunstadter Family Foundation

Mr. Morton D. May

Robert and Beatrice Mayer Foundation

Mrs. Louise Tompkins Parker

Mr. Jefferson Patterson

Mrs. Stanley J. Sarnoff

Rita and Taft Schreiber Foundation

Mr. David Scott

Philip M. Stern Family Fund

Mrs. Fredrika M. Tandler

Mr. and Mrs. Stanley Woodward

3,500
Mrs. Marshall Field

2,918
Mr. Laurance S. Rockefeller
Mr. Thomas Watson

1,030

The Reader’s Digest
Mr. Alvin Solomon
458 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967—APPENDIX 1

FuNpDs AND FEDERAL APPROPRIATIONS

The following appropriations were made by Congress for the Govern-
ment bureaus under the administrative charge of the Smithsonian
Institution for the fiscal year 1967:

Salaries‘and Expenses... . 245 20s © o\- Vem = oa «sey ee
National Zoological Park .. . oats ee Pos OSI OUND
Appropriation made to the National Gallery of Art Gaene. is a bureau

of the Smithsonian Institution under a separate Board of Trustees). $2, 822, 000

The Institution also received appropriations to continue the 12-year
capital improvement program at the National Zoological Park
($1,589,000); and for the restoration and renovation of buildings
($2,300,000).

For fiscal year 1967, the Smithsonian was granted an appropriation
of $2,316,000 in foreign currencies for museum programs and related
research.

In addition, funds were transferred from other Government agencies
for expenditure under the direction of the Smithsonian Institution as
follows:

Working funds, transferred from the National Park Service, Depart-

ment of the Interior, for archeological investigations in river basins
throughout the United States... . - «i++ 28). 3 ee oe

The Institution also administers a trust fund for partial support of the
Canal Zone Biological Area, located on Barro Colorado Island in the
Canal Zone.

AUDIT
The report of the audit of the Smithsonian Private Funds is attached.

Respectfully submitted:
RosBert V. FLEMING
CarYL P. HAsKINS
CxLinton P. ANDERSON
Executive Committee

WasuincTon, D.C., October 6, 1967
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 459

Peat, Marwick, MitcHELL & Co.
CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS
1140 CONNECTICUT AVENUE NW.

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20036

THE BOARD OF REGENTS,
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION:

We have examined the balance sheet of private funds of Smithsonian Insti-
tution as of June 30, 1967 and the related statements of changes in funds
for the year then ended. Our examination was made in accordance with
generally accepted auditing standards, and accordingly included such tests of
the accounting records and such other auditing procedures as we considered
necessary in the circumstances.

Except for certain real estate acquired by gift or purchased from proceeds
of gifts which are valued at cost or appraised value at date of gift, land, build-
ings, furniture, equipment, works of art, living and other specimens, and certain
other similar property are not included in the accounts of the Institution;
the amounts of investments in such properties are not readily determinable.
Current expenditures for such properties are included among expenses.
The accompanying statements do not include the National Gallery of Art, the
John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts, nor other departments,
bureaus and operations administered by the Institution under Federal appro-
priations. The accounts of the Institution are maintained on the basis of cash
receipts and disbursements, with the result that the accompanying statements do
not reflect income earned but not collected, or expenses incurred but not paid.

In our opinion, subject to the matters referred to in the preceding paragraph,
the accompanying balance sheet of private funds and the related statements of
changes in funds present fairly the assets and funds principal of Smithsonian
Institution at June 30, 1967 and changes in fund balances resulting from cash
transactions of the private funds for the year then ended, on a basis consistent
in all material respects with that of the preceding year.

PEAT, MARWICK, MITCHELL & CO.
October 6, 1967

In the Auditor’s report, the following statement precedes schedules 1
and 2:

THE BOARD OF REGENTS
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION:

Accountants’ Report on Supplementary Data

We have reported separately herein on the basic financial statements of pri-
vate funds of Smithsonian Institution. The current year’s supplementary data
included in Schedules 1 and 2 were subjected to the same auditing procedures
and, in our opinion, are stated fairly in all material respects when considered
in conjunction with the basic financial statements taken as a whole.

October 6, 1967
460 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967—APPENDIX 1

SMITHSONIAN

BALANCE SHEET OF PRIVATE

Assets
Current funds:
General:
Cash:
United States Treasury current
account $322, 724
In banks and on hand 98, 996
421, 720
Notes receivable 140, 000
Investments—stocks and bonds
(quoted market value
$2,543,038) (note 1) 2, 659, 611
Reimbursements due:
Grants $107, 151
Contracts 807, 532 914, 683
Travel and other advances 36, 307
Other assets 119, 367
Due from general endowment
funds 311, 240
Total general 4, 602, 928
Restricted:
Cash:
United States Treasury current
account 1, 292, 936
In banks 148, 825 1, 441, 761
Due from general fund 1, 376, 552
Due from Freer Gallery of Art endowment fund 4, 752 1, 381, 304

Total restricted 2, 823, 065

Total current funds 7, 425, 993
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE

INSTITUTION

FUNDS, JUNE 30, 1967

Liabilities and Fund Balances

Current funds:
General:
Due to restricted funds
Fund balance (Exhibit B)

Total general

Restricted:
Due to restricted endowment fund
Fund balances (Exhibit C):
Unexpended income from endowment:
Freer Gallery of Art: $507, 607

Other restricted 641,028 $1, 148, 635

Funds for special purposes:

Gifts 450, 465
Grants 786, 113

Contracts 389, 822 1, 626, 400

Total restricted

Total current funds

461

EXHIBIT A

$1, 376, 552
3, 226, 376

4, 602, 928

48, 030

2, 119; 099
2, 823, 065

7, 425, 993
462 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967—APPENDIX 1

Assets—Continued

Endowment funds and funds function-
ing as endowment:

Freer Gallery of Art fund, Stocks
and bonds (quoted market value
$18,202,916) (note 1)

Other funds:

Cash
Stocks and bonds (quoted market
value $9,598,449) (note 1)

Loan in perpetuity to U.S. Treas-
ury
Other stocks and bonds (quoted
market value $25,045) (note 1)
Real estate (note 2)
Due from restricted unexpended
income

Total other funds
Total endowment funds and

funds functioning as en-
dowment

12, 112, 170

$315, 957
8, 594, 479
8, 910, 436

1, 000; 000

13, 386

1, 388, 188

48, 030

11, 360, 040

23, 472, 210

$30, 898, 203

See accompanying notes to financial statements.
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE

463

EXHIBIT A—Continued

Liabilities and Fund Balances—Continued

Endowment funds and funds func-
tioning as endowment:
Freer Gallery of Art fund:
Due to Freer Gallery of Art re-
stricted fund
Fund balance (Exhibit D)

Total Freer Gallery of Art
fund
Other funds:
Mortgages payable (note 2)
Due to general funds
Fund balances (Exhibit D):
Restricted $5, 132, 453
General 5, 831, 906

Total other funds

Total endowment funds and

funds functioning as en-

dowment

4, 752

12, 107, 418

12, 112, 170
84, 441
311, 240
10, 964, 359

11, 360, 040

23, 472, 210

$30, 898, 203

EXHIBIT B

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION: PRIVATE FUNDS

STATEMENT OF CHANGES
IN CURRENT GENERAL FUND BALANCE

YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 1967

Balance at Receipts (Schedule 1)

beginning of Disbursements

year Transfers Other (Schedule 2)

Operations $3,163,479 3,696,737 1,532,874 5, 166, 714
Gifts AOSD, MLO 208e 2 2 ete 715, 263
Grants a0.” 8 6897 lee 6, 827, 166
Contracts MSL ae cots at 10s OLS OUD 6, 313, 505
$3, 163,479 17,552, 671 1, 532, 874 19, 022, 648

See accompanying notes to financial statements.

Balance at
end of year

3, 226, 376

3, 226, 376
SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967—-APPENDIX 1

464

Z9F ‘IFS ‘OZ

L89 ‘GZF ‘81
ccc

189 ‘FI6
LSI ‘G2e
LP ‘68S ‘GI
919 ‘FS

99I ‘SEZ
OFI ‘Eb
292 ‘0€9

LL9 ‘62S

CLL ‘818 ‘I
1210 [,

) LIGIHXd

6L6 ‘G16 ‘LZ 186 ‘GE8 ‘8 626 ‘LL ‘I 196 ‘IIS %

ILS ‘FOL ‘L C10 ‘LEZ ‘8 6L6 ‘IL9 ZS ‘682 ‘I

ee ee Re bowen Gee

OSs ‘L08 ISI ‘L01 Ww ovswe ule le spas ia) sa/ip te: (b: \e;le\ que, we a) (6

a ep tal o- (4) se) ere) (ee tae 9 6) ed 4 Inu) aM a 6 ols © EGTEGGG Ch re ate ACO BOO

$9E ‘L8E ‘9 $98 629 ‘8 G28 ‘OFF LLE “GSI

fa’ ‘neuen lemauibremelie/ete late fa, 0) (Kees ere! my ee | 8 ie esteem a fe) eielis « ee 919 ‘EG

Sie MEK cece tOP'R (6 'c) Blinem- eniel ef al/aiaivee-abeue ie =  f\e) wh ove .e).0 \6, ©).6)\0\ 0 991 ‘GGG

By ahh ial we Ne), ele) lorie! we in) e ue) elisl/asetlaise|(s\ieftei- Otel we) sixe. [bmw .elenre) 6| 101 6 OFI ‘CHS

etametiarel sinamamelralinva ) Lean elem). wliatei*sl eine (elle ici) uaie.ier oneMiede.c .0\.0\ (1.0 ne Z9Z ‘og9

LL9 “62S wi Amerie Silat el is AwikeMker-s) bl mt yc eo) air eikelenr.6/"6. 6 eixelKey a |e: /a.0\ .©, (ome! 0), a) 8" 0 0) 6

80F ‘161 ZL6 ‘86 OSs “COS CHB ‘Z20 ‘I$
SJIDAJUO!) SJUDIY) SHLD aulonut

papuagx aug)

sasoging yorads sof spun

4961 ‘og aNoL aaana uvaaA

2110)
pue seoA 3e puny [e19U03 WOI ssoURApY

UONIqIyXs Surpoaery,
sjUvIS PUR S}ID
suoneorqnd jo ajeg

SpUNy po}911}s9y

spun] poezd1I}se1 IOYIC)

yV jo Asoyjey 19917
:JUDUIMOpUD WO sWIO DUT
ssoueApe sievdd solid Jo u0Md27[0D

:PPV

aeo4 Jo Buruutseq ye souRleg

AONV IVE GNNA GHLOIMLSaY LNAWANO NI SHONVHO AO LNAWNALVLS

SGNOY4 @ALVAINd :NOILLOLILSNT NVINOSHLINS
465

REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE

*s}UdUID}B}S [eIOUvUY 0} s9j}0u SurAueduoOd9R 90g

CE0 ‘SLL 268 ‘68E EI “O8Z COF ‘OS GE9 ‘BI ‘I$ zeak Jo pud ye souryeg
Lot ‘99% ‘LI LSI ‘92S ‘L $L8 ‘640 ‘8 $90 ‘ZL GEE ‘EOI ‘T suononpep [210],

10E 6 ey Tm eck Cube a 10§ 6 BUibyie)ielins a’ si celbeeual st ‘Salie¥cicelieple) (a) sisal a) in) popuodxoun sreok Joud jo punjoy
QZ1 ‘LCF ‘LI LSI ‘9ZS ‘LZ ELS ‘OO ‘8 $90 ‘LZ ZEE ‘E91 ‘I SIQJSUBI] [BIO T,

962 “BLS $28 ‘96h (6Lt ‘9¢) 108 ‘IT OST ‘9ZI

1S6 ‘9GG 1S6 ‘9G¢G aiesiieietiatsatniubiatialic/ ich ontieewitel’s isis) ial celiul.el.ef © | wiistie; (ele sliefie:.« “«) es (6 soouraApe read JOLIg
eabelienniaivMelslcneseisi™ | (elles is: el dive).e wiles 6 +10 Gos (ZO TAY) 8ZE ‘BI sys OL
(120 ‘92 ) (ZZ1 ‘09) (€G¢ 6S) (€02 “62 ) 90% ‘$9 puny [es9ued (WO) OF,
OIG Se Ee ee eet eso It ‘Lt yedroutsd 03 poppe surosuy

1DyIO

0€8 ‘8Z8 ‘91 EEE 620 ‘L ZS0 ‘L60 ‘8 692 ‘GIL Z8I ‘LEO ‘I

PIL “C86 oT 828 Gil 988 “692 T el asere)cah ‘a! (uc volielia; ue kal dheyioiMey ptiefisivelie: ele pesy19AC,
P£6 ‘GG8 “EI GOS ‘E1¢ “9 991 ‘£28 ‘9 SOGRGTL) » A i oS 8JSO9 19911]
991 exer DOO Gs C1 OrdeCen in Oat. = Sond O cad, DateOUeD Oh = Op GeauD OsOkCh ito cece U 99[ ‘CES spury p2}01}s01U
LZ1 ‘191 a reLon ie Na kefhaiisiis  atint-ws cisyssica he Mam we st iatamwuie | Yale Me>sattem erie | jel vel .of'w LZ1 ‘L91 spunj Pe9T1}S91 IIUIO
688 ‘pec SO baaOr Ota 0 BG ioc OF ieee cine SSO enc. OACR Reet CR otto “ccm 688 ‘EEC yy jo Asaqyesy I991J

:QUIOIUT JUIIINI O} SIIJSUPLT,
:yonpeg
466 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967—APPENDIX 1
EXHIBIT D

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION: PRIVATE FUNDS

STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN PRINCIPAL OF ENDOWMENT FUNDS
AND FUNDS FUNCTIONING AS ENDOWMENT

YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 1967

Balance at beginning of year $22, 361, 069
Add:
Gifts 197, 262
Income added to principal as prescribed by donor 47, 416
Transfer from general fund 185, 387
Net gain on investments 480, 643
23,271, 777
Deduct:
Real estate sold 200, 000
$23, 071, 777
Balance at end of year consisting of:
Freer Gallery of Art $12, 107, 418
Other:
Restricted 9, 132, 453

General 5, 831, 906 10, 964, 359
$23, 071, 777

See accompanying notes to financial statements.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION: PRIVATE FuUNDs
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
June 30, 1967

(1) Investments are stated at cost or appraised value at date of gift.

(2) At June 30, 1967, two parcels of property which were acquired by gift or
bequest were pledged as security for mortgages with unpaid balances totaling
$84,441.
467

REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE

149 ‘ZG ‘ZI GOS ‘SIE ‘9 991 ‘LZ8 ‘9 £92 ‘GIL LEL “969 ‘¢ S1QJsUeI} [PIO T,
(421 09) SOOM OTIS CRUSE OTT a a0 ONT OMTIO Tr CitO ito eae Bin een cia (221 09) s}OB.U0D
(es¢ 6S)  OFEID OCU IG IOLOECIONOD a nS ENG lon ee CARE Mace GN chop cmatimemers (eg¢ 6S) syuRI5
$02 ‘6z Omit oo Us omirr. seoed eb Oo dart oO Ne Eh Olonn Oo OG Beate $02 GZ SID
icce: Tae ice ore meee eae arenes ae cer ray juccenonenirevsutncuemmrnan
90F 59 usr isliehiesaleliavioseles sll elielioltel mn iersMalicitebielioyen wiclVéblaatetcetiel emer atiewcte 90F 59 awioour pepusdxeuy
ESF 1c aviehe*eWemamemmertamyie | felietre Nee wiehetieetetiee  setlsvellsmets iercie aes Ch WAG oun} zayndurory
sich Seiler ee Tanne Cae DN, 2 Mere wre Goan) SaERTUS
688 692 1 hea Cy el be Che Let BOCs ORC 8 OeOe Date ec ALC OeOuCee 1 CeO ecacetosner Ok ORS 688 692 oT syuRIsy
> pBsYIIAG,
$£6 ‘CCB ‘EI GOS ‘EIg “9S 99 ‘LZ8 ‘9S COC GILG = ae wea 4809 3991IP—s}0eQUOD puk sjUeAd ‘st
991 ‘cee SITs Meh Ma ste /)'s)cscal Mu chen well sigelcciiel ‘otal lenient uikajursinats) Teer iaincitratavse 991 ico peqornsauQ
LZ1 ‘191 ausisolrols/rsjavigs jessie Sade Natem(eUshiaiectulia Welilsiispieliein | <eMis, \e)fedrebval ieulelie eye LZ ‘191 spungy payornsar rpIIO
688 ‘Secs DitiiniG mike) arimviel is is! (ite Osa oO Goro Oe 2g) G ceo no ooo Old 688 ‘SEcd Wy jo Araqyeyy IIII
1710 [, $]ID4JUOD squviy sHftg suor01agQ) : QUIODUT JUSUIMOpUy

:spUNyJ 19y}0 WO poroysues y,
L961 ‘Og aNO[ agangy uvax :¢IdIGOUN CNOA TVUINAID LNAWAND JO ATAAGAHOS

SQNN4 ALVAIY :NOILALILSN] NVINOSHLING

T ¢aTIOGaHOS
SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967—-APPENDIX 1

468

080 ‘0&6 ‘L 10% ‘£09 Z 166 ‘$L‘% = 800 “BSI ObL ‘LLb SOLIETRS [210 J,

622 ‘929 CIE “981 828 ‘681 $EG ‘L 218 ‘Bb syyousq seA40;durq
Ochi tere ee eZ ‘LLb synduaor
COI ‘OFT “G 980 ‘LIP Z% €S0 ‘GEG % F8L ‘OTIS BPS ‘LL yoreasay
6900891 tnt tte entree eens £96 ‘089 ‘I$ ShGeierercrpy
:SsolIepeEg
1210 J. sj9p4quory squdsy YT E9) suouviaggQy

L961 ‘og aNnf{ aganq 4vaA :SINAWASUNASIG GNONA IVYINAD LNAWUND AO AINGAHOS

SGNOQYJ ALVAIg NOLMLNLILSNT NVINOSHLING

6 ATNGAHOS

C¥S ‘C80 ‘6I COS ‘E1€ ‘9 991 ‘228 ‘9 £96 ‘GIL 119 “622 ‘G$ sydiao01 [10 7,

+18 ‘ZEG 1 GOO Mo UW GO Oo Om oo todo ho. o OO ot) ht Geerorce fl oo OL +18 ‘ES 1 sydia001 ayo [210],

Z0L ZC] Ono COO OU Ooo ts 9s Oru Ged Gro Odo oO We wii Gla oed te oot ZOL FES 210
SIS Wy aoa. ty Orosth dhod, deo ay then Ga hrovo Gro aiaw| «> otassea oral ar OSCE a SIS UL oun saynduior)
660 ‘g9 SOUDOMoOOoodO mM Pbobrhbobwowon nuoagcuotco © ond 6S0 ‘89 sa) e10ossyy jo A\2190g uonnyysuy uvruOsyIUS
96F ‘¢z9 OP COO ovr Oe te Be OO OPO HOTTY NCO Oem OOS Deo our Ceoto cae O6F “CZ9 sysoq sayesg sdoys uinasnyy
FI9 ‘IE Ovo, Glo" Gs OM Orc Ome Ol 0, FO Ct Oe OP OPEN CE Dalal OF Ost rn oh COLE OAR 19 ‘I8¢ sD
906 18 eC ei ei) srt is ie OO ROMONOROREOOCUONCIE- S.CKOR Tia WOES ICR ICNOmCE Ct 906 ‘18 syde180,0yd pue suoneorqng
+8S 6EI SUN e) eheulehe: cn) cieire, oMMoltemh (cMamee attire leer  Meeui-ctsifs te iv sule:.cite $C Bel Quioout yUOUTIS2AU]

:s7drad01 19yI1E

penunuo)—|T ATAdGaAHOS
469

REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE

8F9 ‘ZZ0 ‘61

£26

$SH ‘FL
€Z8 ‘98
ESI ‘SEE
182 ‘ILE
LIZ ‘92
£00 ‘+

818 ‘OLF ‘T
$91 ‘LZ TZ
6G ccc 1

OFS “829
br8
6£9 ‘9ST

IS ‘0Z
BIL ‘FIO ‘T
L&I ‘G9G
666 ‘ZBI
$SZ ‘BSZ
C68 ‘289

019 ‘919

698 ‘LOE
POI ‘ILZ ‘%
O£S ‘Z9E

PBI ‘CLI

662

029 ‘29

966 ‘9ZI
$80 ‘LP

1E8 ‘02

916 ‘11%

Z£9 ‘8

L¥I ‘OOL

98L ‘8b

€12% ‘ZOl

619 ‘¢

E10 “9E¢ ‘I
€Gh ‘18E
L¥I ‘89
€€6 ‘O81
GS ‘ESS

990 ‘G

Z6I ‘LS
ZII ‘SEE
9IZ ‘891
LIZ ‘9%
£00 ‘+

L¥S ‘86S

Z8S ‘ZOF

+90 ‘002
vr8
9€6 “Ch

$86 ‘FI
819 ‘Z

88E ‘CZ
6L9 ‘OE
EL “Fl
696 ‘6II

OIF ‘82S

sJUDUIISINGSIp }U9IINI [BIO T,

PIO
ydei3a]03 pue suoydaya) ‘odejsog

sojddns s0yjo pue Ar19u0e1¢
Ysep soles
suononpoidears pue sunuiig
$21n}09'T
syiqryxe yeroods ‘ssunoojy
:sasuodxo pure sorjddng
SIIAIOS IBYIO
syoe1}U0NqGNS
Joynduoy
:S9OIAIOS JBNIOeIYUOD
SON pue syUsy
QOULUdIUIVUI spuNOIS pue iINOD
suoneyyeysul pue ssurpying
:spunoi3 pue juowdinboa ‘ssurpying
sydeis0joyd pue uoneorqng
quouidinba oj0yd pure syMUsIIg
sje1iojeur pur sorjddns 19419
Ajddns pue juourdinby
ssuty) Jo uoneyodsues 7,
suosiod jo uonezodsuen pur [eariy
:sasuadxa
DANBIISIUTUIpe pojeja1 pue uonNPRiojdxa pur sayoieIsoy
UOI}I2][OD IOJ SoseyoIng
b :
f sO
BIBS is

BOP Li voles 9 ME he 5 5 :

“— itr w) FERED ixa»

a ie!

SS Sat

Ser tz
+
ser 2

CIT =atl ce

aiiiorhoige ban pana .

iliggue sotia Litt qa
figaigeie tier siewtyAg4s

“a. faecee soca at

a
ra

Smithsonian Foreign Currency Program
Grants Awarded Fiscal Year 1967

Anthropolog y— Systematic and Environmental Btolog y

ANTHROPOLOGY

AMERICAN INsTITUTE OF INDIAN Stup1Es, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.
To continue support for the American Academy of Benares, India,
an institution for research in art history and archeology (second
year).

AMERICAN RESEARCH CENTER IN Ecypt, Boston, Massachusetts. To
continue support for a program of research and excavation in
Egypt; a) Excavation of the ancient city of Hierakonpolis b) Con-
tinuation of an epigraphic and architectural survey at Luxor c) Con-
tinuation of a stratified Pharonic site at Mendes, d) Continuation
of a field project for recording and preserving treasures at St.
Catherine’s Monastery, Mt. Sinai (second year).

BROOKLYN Museum. To support the study of the Giza Necropolis,
Egypt (second year).

LAWRENCE RapIATION LABORATORY, UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA,
BERKELEY. To continue to test the utilization of cosmic rays to
““X-ray” the Egyptian pyramids in search of presently unknown
chambers.

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA AT Los ANGELES. A joint UCLA-Sarajevo
Territorial Museum research project on the prehistory of Obre,
Bosnia, Yugoslavia.

CarNEGIE MuseEvuM, Pittsburgh. To continue excavations of a Philis-
tine City at Ashdod, Israel (second year).

University oF Cuicaco. To provide research assistantships in arche-
ology and art history for Universtiy of Chicago students at the
American Academy of Benares, India.

University oF CoLtorapo. To support prehistoric archeological re-
search at Oued El Akarit, Tunisia.

PraBopy Museum or NaturaL History AT HARVARD UNIVERSITY.
To excavate a prehistoric site at Starcevo, Yugoslavia.

471
472 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967—-APPENDIX 2

JERUSALEM SCHOOL OF ARCHEOLOGY OF HEBREW Union COLLEGE. To
excavate an archeological site at Gezer, Israel, and to conduct a
Summer Institute on Near Eastern Civilizations (second year).

University oF MicuicAn. To initiate a program for research and
training in prehistoric archeology in Israel and to conduct excava-
tions at the site of Tabun, Israel.

University oF Missouri. To complete investigation of ancient
Phoenician glass manufacturing sites in Israel (second year).
University oF Missouri. To excavate the Greek trade site of Yavneh

Yam, Israel.

University Museum, UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA. To study the
remaining stones of the Temple of Akhnaten at Luxor, Egypt
(second year).

University Musreum, UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA. To study the
inscriptions of the Dra Abu Naga Tombs, Egypt.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, OFFICE OF ANTHROPOLOGY. ‘To conduct an
archeological investigation of Western Phoenician culture at
Carthage, Tunisia.

SOUTHERN MeErtuHopist University. To study the prehistory of the
area around Sibaiya, Egypt (second year).

STANFORD UNiIversiTy. To conduct a joint Stanford-Sarajevo Terri-
torial Museum archeological expedition in the Trebisnjica Basin,
Yugoslavia.

University oF Wisconsin. Reexamination of the late prehistoric
sites in Kharga and Dakhla Oasis, Egypt.

PeaBpopy Museum oF NaturAL History AT YALE UNIversiTy. To
study the paleontology and stratigraphy of the Paleocene, Eocene
and Oligocene deposits to enlarge knowledge of primitive man in
Egypt (second year).

SYSTEMATIC AND ENVIRONMENTAL BIOLOGY

Jouns Hopkins University. To study the behavior and ecology of
small mammals of Bengal, India.

University oF MicuicAn. To conduct cytological studies of Indian
Mollusks.

NATIONAL ACADEMY OF ScIENCES/NATIONAL RESEARCH CouncIL. To
support an International Biological Program planning symposium
in Tunisia for a Mediterranean region conservation program.

SouTHERN MeEtuopist University. To investigate the quaternary
environment of the Qattara Depression in the Western Desert of

Egypt.
FOREIGN CURRENCY PROGRAM GRANTS 473

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION:

OrrFice oF EcoLocy. To study the flora and vegetation of Ceylon.

OrrFice oF EcoLtocy. To support a symposium on recent advances
in tropical ecology in Benares, India.

OrrFicE oF Ecotocy. To conduct a survey of ecological research
opportunities for the International Biological Program in Poland,
Yugoslavia, Tunisia, Israel, Republic of the Congo, and India.

Museum oF NAtTurAL History. To continue studies in India
leading to publication of a handbook on Indian birds.

Museum or NaturRAL History. To study the migration of Indian
birds.

Museum oF NaturAt History. To conclude research and publish
a study of the Triassic ostracods of Israel.

Museum oF NaATurAL History. To conduct serological and
ectoparasitic surveys of migratory birds in Northeast Africa.

Museum oF Natura History. To conduct a field expedition in
Egypt to broaden the Department of Entomology collections.

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL Park. To study the behavior and ecology
of the Ceylonese elephant.

OFFICE OF OCEANOGRAPHY. To study in Israel the biological
Interchange between the Eastern Mediterranean and the Red
Sea through the Suez Canal.

OFFICE OF OCEANOGRAPHY. To establish a Marine Sorting Center
at Salammbo, Tunisia.

RapIATION BrioLocy Lasporatory. To study in Israel the effects
of solar radiation on plants through comparative observation at
different latitudes.
ene a, Nee rr ARRON

evga th eerrogpely
firs eka tablets bts Aig AT “Face a NDS pedi
SO SPE eh da rR ME Me NL ae <1
eel peat, ni ileal

(9 inae Ge, 0 oAnbiae hatte aia Vs TOL IT
U4 oh wosmpart leoirg hit, Lunitanren > Dot? woh ee

fel Lupe nie FS aay do. dite isi Atawu
ain di jeuliud ay \olipoo de eget aa ai
ely iid: salon be debt beeen ye fee cali .

iba) bo natieyaler ofl whine ol .Yeotehl AeA

ae rT
ciatchurg, (i8 tnenees Shite (aes spike ern.
lvaral ify seteo DS weer “i ies
bin, ieigaet pubes, of ,vpirelp, Jaw Tyla
ail Meiosis, v1 bs yt Crabie ir heh aah i:
fi, Cis epee i it .&.fotborm OL, cir, tpetic Aa
iil iolon psiluniiek te ws eats Ap be tie
vray? es One Vl Viner { Auw dA Hoe 00 ne
we . ion don dgye oe mer
licutwolah! oth Aoeesh ei gba cad) AAO Re oy
Bees SES AGa;a21 hab py Hak nec! Mit Ae NALS Q
at inn, swe orld a ag
we) sotaiveie, ili « deikiejes 8 > RAO MA
ocwa: Petrie ls
iiatte,wlt lon Lith, Vode wy A yncrakanns yoo
te Ss BU TR 1a oy diwopi massa se eee a
te

wr Bf silytt fs

ee vel cw Load oh

is 7 iy oe
ttenot et,
‘¥ ie ra] ré ay pA ies i qe ae “haul Ta, @

- 4 it)
f f ( eT ‘gals Trp? CONSETT yA tae
: y

ys eray a
cd 6 ibe [ a ving 4 rhe AMS Hl e

a
iS.

Publications of the Smithsonian Institution Press
For the Year Ended June 30, 1967

BOOKS AND ATLASES

Seabirds of the tropical Atlantic Ocean: Smithsonian identification
manual, by George E. Watson. (Second edition of Preliminary
Smithsonian identification manual: Seabirds of the tropical
Atlantic Ocean, issued March 1965.) xxix+120 pp., 12 pls.
Publ. 4680, November 21, 1966 ($3.75.)

Trap-nesting wasps and bees: Life histories, nests, and associates,
by Karl V. Krombein. iv+570 pp., 2 figs., 29 pls., 36 tables.
Publ. 4670, March 1, 1967. ($12.50.)

The etchings of Canaletto, by Jacob Kainen. 63 pp., 44 illustr.
Publ. 4676, April 20, 1967. ($5.95.)

The art of Stanton Macdonald-Wright, introduction by David W.
Scott. 100 pp., 31 illustr. Publ. 4707, May 4, 1967. (paper,
$3.50, cloth, $7.50.)

The Large Magellanic Cloud, by Paul W. Hodge & Frances W. Wright.
v+108 pp., 81 pls., 12 tables. Publ. 4699, June 6, 1967. ($25.00.)

POPULAR PUBLICATIONS

Opportunities in oceanography, prepared by Interagency Committee
on Oceanography. 33 pp., 44 illustr. (3rd revision of publ. 4537,
issued July 1964), April 10, 1967. ($1.00.)

The Continental gunboat Philadelphia and the Northern Campaign
of 1776, by Phillip K. Lundeberg. 22 pp., illustr. Publ. 4651,
August 1, 1966. (50 cents.)

The Apollo program, a midstream appraisal, by George M. Low.
22 pp., 8 illustr. Publ. 4693, January 25, 1967. ($1.00.)

The American parade of politics, 1788-1960, by Keith Melder. 24
pp., 13 illustr. Publ. 4696, May 4, 1967. (50 cents.)

475
476 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967—APPENDIX 3

EXHIBITION CATALOGS

Contemporary Dutch graphics, by Dolf Welling. 20 pp., 9 illustr.
Publ. 4665, July 1, 1966. (75 cents.)

Paul Manship, 1885-1966. 24 pp., 17 illustr. Publ. 4686, August 10,
1966. (75 cents.)

Recent acquisitions, National Portrait Gallery, Smithsonian Institution,
entries compiled by Robert G. Stewart, foreword by Charles Nagel.
36 pp., 15 illustr. Publ. 4685, September 15, 1966. (N.C.)

Islamic art from the collection of Edwin Binney 3rd, foreword by
Richard Ettinghausen. 100 pp., 90 illustr. Publ. 4682, October
1966. ($1.50.)

Paintings and drawings by Elihu Vedder, introduction by Regina Soria.
32 pp., 11 illustr. Publ 4689, October 5, 1966. ($1.00.)

Catalog of the Alice Pike Barney memorial lending collection, by
Delight Hall. 195 pp., 99 illustr. Publ. 4522, November 18, 1966.
($4.75.)

Sculptures and drawings of Henry Moore. 38 pp., 32 illustr. Publ.
4688, December 1966. ($1.00.)

Italian architectural drawings, introduction by John Harris. 60 pp.,
55 illustr. Publ. 4690, January 1967. ($1.60.)

Battle art, American Expeditionary Forces 1918, by Edgar M. Howell.
24 pp., 10 illustr. Publ. 4700, April 17, 1967. (30 cents.)

Tunisian mosaics, foreword by Mohamed Yacoub. xv+34 pp., 41
illustr. Publ. 4709, May 1967. ($1.75.)

REPRINTS

Paintings, pastels, drawings, prints, and copper plates by and attributed
to American and European artists, together with a list of original
Whistleriana, in the Freer Gallery of Art, by Burns A. Stubbs.
vi+153 pp., 30 illustr. (Repr. of publ. 3905, Freer Gallery of Art
Occasional Papers, vol. 1, no 2, issued August 1948), May 12, 1967.
($1.00.)

Smithsonian meteorological tables, by Robert J. List. 6th edition.
xi+527 pp., 174 tables. (3rd repr. of Smithsonian Misc. Coll.
vol. 114 [whole volume], publ. 4014, issued September 1951),
October 7, 1966. ($5.00.)

The world of dinosaurs, by David Dunkle. ii+22 pp., illustr.
(Repr. of publ. 4296, issued May 1957), July 1, 1966. (50 cents.)

Folk religion of Southwest China, by David Crockett Graham. viii-+
245 pp., 10 figs., 28 pls. (Repr. of Smithsonian Misc. Coll., vol.
142, no. 2, publ. 4457, issued November 1961), May 4, 1967.
($5.00.)
PUBLICATIONS—SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION PRESS 477

Diirer and his time, by Fedja Anzelewski. 252 pp., 150 illustr. (Repr.
of publ. 4647, issued November 1965), April 28, 1967. ($8.95.)

ANNUAL REPORTS

Smithsonian Year 1966: annual report of the Smithsonian Institution
for the year ended June 30, 1966, including the financial report
of the Executive Committee of the Board of Regents. vii+409 pp.,
illustr. Publ. 4697, January 25, 1967.

Annual report of the American Historical Association for the year 1965,
volume |, proceedings. xxix+93 pp. December 16, 1966.

SMITHSONIAN SERIES

SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS

VOLUME 149
10. Emerged Quaternary shore lines in the Mississippi embayment,
by CG. Wythe Cooke. 41 pp., 20 figs. Publ. 4677, July 18
1966. (N.C.)
11. [end of volume]. Additional data on the host relations of the
parasitic cowbirds, by Herbert Friedmann. 12 pp. Publ.
4678, August 16, 1966. (N.C.)

VOLUME 151

N

Aspects of the ecology of the iguanid lizard Tropidurus torquatus at
Belém, Para, by A. Stanley Rand and Patricia J. Rand. 16 pp.,
4 figs., 3 tables. Publ. 4666, July 8, 1966. (N.C.)

3. Surface conditions of the Orgueil meteorite parent body as indi-
cated by mineral associations, by Kurt Bostr6m and Kurt
Fredriksson. 39 pp., 18 figs., 5 tables. Publ. 4667, July
27, 1966. ($1.50)

5. Precipitation in five continents, by C. G. Abbot. 32 pp., 17 figs.,
7 tables. Publ. 4694, May 31, 1967. (N.C.)

6. The early history of the sun, by A. G. W. Cameron. 19 pp., 7
figs. Publ. 4674, July 15, 1966. (N.C.)

7. The birds of Socotra and Abd-El-Kuri, by S. Dillon Ripley and
Gorman M. Bond. 37 pp., 8 pis., 1 map, 1 table. Publ.
4681, August 16, 1966. (N.C)

8 The behavior of Afeles geoffroyi and related species, by John F.
Eisenberg and Robert E. Kuehn. iv+63 pp., 10 figs., 6 pls.
23 tables. Publ. 4683, November 29, 1966. (N.C.)

9. Four new Eocene echinoids from Barbados, by Porter M. Kier.

28 pp., 16 figs., 1 pl. Publ. 4673, August 30, 1966. (N.C.)
478 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967—-APPENDIX 3

VOLUME 152
1. Cretaceous Thyasira from the western interior of North America,
by Erle G. Kauffman. 159 pp., 18 figs., 5 pls., 7 tables. Publ.
4695, June 30, 1967. (N.C.)
2. Supplement to a long-range forecast of United States precipitation,
by C. G. Abbot and Lena Hill. 8 pp., 1 table. Publ. 4711,
May 31, 1967. (N.C.)

UNITED STATES NATIONAL MusEuM BULLETINS

MUSEUM .OF HISTORY AND TECHNOLOGY

241 (as whole volume). Contributions from the Museum of History
and Technology: Papers 45 to 51 on history. vii+232 pp., illustr.
February 16, 1967 (preprints of individual papers issued as indicated
in earlier reports).

252. Contributions from the Museum of History and Technology:
Papers 69—__, on science and technology.

69. James Millholland and early railroad engineering, by John
He Whites, 36'pp., 29 fies: June 21, 1967-

70. William Gunn Price and the Price current meters, by Arthur
H. Frazier. 68 pp., 39 figs. March 29, 1967.

MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY

247, parts 3 and 4. Fossil marine mammals from the Miocene Calvert
Formation of Maryland and Virginia, by Remington Kellogg.
pp. iv+ 65-101, figs. 32-38, pls. 33-45. November 28, 1966.

251. Pacific Tunicata of the United States National Museum, by
Takasi Tokioka. v+247 pp., 105 figs. April 27, 1967.

255. A revision of the moths of the subfamily Prodoxinae (Lepidoptera:
Incurvariidae), by Donald R. Davis. iv+170 pp., 155 figs., 3
tables, 17 maps, 3 diagr. April 18, 1967.

BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY BULLETINS

197. An analysis of sources of information on the population of the
Navaho, by Denis Foster Johnston. v+220 pp., 7 maps, 36 tables.
September 28, 1966.

198. Inter-agency Archeological Salvage Program, River Basin
Survey Papers, edit. Robert L. Stephenson.

39 [whole volume]. An interpretation of Mandan culture history,
by W. Raymond Wood. xiv+232 pp. 17 figs, 9 pls, 20
maps, 15 tables. June 21, 1967.

199 The ethnoarcheology of Crow Village, Alaska, by Wendell H.
Oswalt and James W. VanStone. viii+136 figs., 16 pls., 1 map.
May 1, 1967.
PUBLICATIONS—SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION PRESS 479

SMITHSONIAN CONTRIBUTIONS TO ANTHROPOLOGY

VOLUME 2

1. Early skeletons from Tranquillity, California, by J. Lawrence
Angel. pp. iiit+1-19, 4 pls., 3 tables. November 25, 1966.

2. New Zealand artifacts from the United States ‘“Transit of Venus
Expedition’”’ 1874-1875, by Ian W. Keyes. pp. iv-+21-27, 3 pls.
March 6, 1967.

3. Muskogean charm songs among the Oklahoma Cherokees, by Jack
Frederick Kilpatrick and Anna Gritts Kilpatrick. pp. iv-+29-40,
11 figs. March 6, 1967.

4. Land tenure of the Rainy Lake Chippewa at the beginning of the
19th century, by Harold Hickerson. pp. iv+41-63, 1 map.
March 6, 1967.

VOLUME 3

[Whole volume.] Early cultures and human ecology in south coastal
Guatemala, by Michael D. Coe and Kent V. Flannery. xi+136
pp., 50 figs., 32 pls., 15 tables. February 24, 1967.

VOLUME 4

[Whole volume.] Seneca morphology and dictionary, by Wallace L.
Chafe. vii+126 pp. June 28, 1967.

CONTRIBUTIONS FROM THE NATIONAL HERBARIUM

VOLUME 37

3. Studies of Pacific island plants, XVIII: New and noteworthy flower-
ing plants from Fiji, by Albert C. Smith. pp. 69-106. May 4,
1967.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL MusEuM
(Starting with the first number (3538) in volume 119, each number there-
after is paged separately.)

VOLUME 117

Title page, table of contents, and index. pp. v+681—710. October
21, 1966.

VOLUME 118

3533. Revision of chalcid wasps of genus Eurytoma in America north
of Mexico, by Robert E. Bugbee. pp. 433-552, 31 figs., 37 maps.
March 21, 1967.

3534. The euryhaline copepod genus Eurytemora in fresh and brackish
waters of the Cape Thompson region, Chukchi Sea, Alaska, by
Mildred Stratton Wilson and Jerry C. Tash. pp. 553-576, 3 figs.,
2 tables. December 30, 1966.
480 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967—-APPENDIX 3

3535. Neotropical Microlepidoptera, IX: Revision of genus Pseudat-
teria (Lepidoptera: Tortricidae), by Nicholas S. Obraztsov.
pp. 577-622, 12 figs., 43 pls. December 30, 1966.

3536. Decapod crustaceans from St. Helena Island, South Atlantic,
by Fenner A. Chace, Jr. pp. 623-661, 15 figs., 2 pls. Decem-
ber 30, 1966.

3537 [end of volume]. Revision of sharks of genus Jsurus with descrip-
tion of a new species (Galeoidea, Lamnidae), by J. A. F. Garrick.
pp. 663-690, 9 figs., 4 pls., 2 tables. March 15, 1967.

VOLUME 119 (numbers paged separately)

3538. Review of South American characid fishes of subtribe Nan-
nostomina, by Stanley H. Weitzman. 56 pp., 12 figs. December
30, 1966.

3539. A revision of the hammerhead sharks (family Sphyrnidae),
by Carter R. Gilbert. 88 pp., 22 figs., 10 pls., 5 maps, 9 tables.
April 27, 1967.

3540. Neotropical Microlepidoptera, X: Systematic position of two
taxa erroneously placed in family Stenomidae (Lepidoptera),
by W. Donald Duckworth. 6 pp., 2 figs., 1 pl. December 30,
1966.

3541. Benthic Amphipoda of Monterey Bay, California, by J. Laurens
Barnard. 41 pp., 7 figs., 10 tables. December 30, 1966.

3542. A new genus and six new species of entocytherid ostracods
(Ostracoda, Entocytheridae), by Horton H. Hobbs, Jr., and
Margaret Walton. 12 pp., 2 figs., 1 table. December 30, 1966.

3543. Neotropical Microlepidoptera, XI: Revision of genus Jdolatterta
(Lepidoptera: Tortricidae), by Nicholas S. Obraztsov. 12 pp.,
3 figs., 8 pls. December 30, 1966.

3544. Range and variations of subspecies of Cambarus longulus
(Decapoda: Astacidae), by Hugo A. James. 24 pp., 2 figs., 1 pl.,
2 maps. December 30, 1966.

3545. The lizards of Ecuador, a check list and key, by James A.
Peters: 49° pp: Ovfigss, “Miarch?';« 1967"

3546. Noctuid moths of the American genus Eusceptis Hubner,
by E. L. Todd. 22 pp., 34 figs., | map. December 30, 1966.

3547. Revision of Nearctic Gelechiidae, I: The Lita group (Lepi-
doptera: Gelechioidea), by Ronald W. Hodges. 66 pp., 31 pls.
December 30, 1966.

3548. Notes on Aradidae in the U.S. National Museum, IV (Hemip-
tera: Heteroptera), by Nicholas A. Kormilev. 25 pp., 23 figs.
December 30, 1966.
PUBLICATIONS—SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION PRESS 481

3549. The freeze-dry preservation of biological specimens, by
Rolland O. Hower. 24 pp., 9 figs., 4 pls., 6 tables. March 15, °
1967.

3550. Catalog of type specimens of the darters (Pisces, Percidae,
Etheostomatini), by Bruce B. Collette and Leslie W. Knapp.
88 pp., 5 figs. December 30, 1966.

3551. Review of New World moths of genus Euchromius Guenée
with descriptions of two new species (Lepidoptera: Crambidae),
by Hahn W. Capps. 9 pp., 8 figs., 1 pl. December 30, 1966.

3552. Preliminary revision of butterflies of the genus Calycopis
Scudder (Lycaenidae: Theclinae), by William D. Field. 48 pp.,
126 figs. February 1, 1967.

3553 [end of volume]. Type-specimens of Polychaetes described by
Edith and Cyril Berkeley (1923-1964), by Marian H. Pettibone.
23 pp. February 1, 1967.

VOLUME 120 (numbers paged separately)

3554. A new species of burrowing acontiate anemone from California
(Isophelliidae: Flosmaris), by Cadet Hand and Ralph Bushnell.
8 pp., 2 figs. March 8, 1967.

3555. Review of South American freshwater angelfishes—genus
Pterophyllum, by Leonard P. Schultz. 10 pp., 4 pls., 4 tables.
February 16, 1967.

3556. Some portunid crabs from the Pacific and Indian Oceans in
the collections of the Smithsonian Institution, by William Stephen-
son and May Rees. 114 pp., 38 figs., 9 pls., 2 tables. March 8,
1967.

3557. Classification of Culex subgenus Culex in the New World
(Diptera: Culicidae), by Ralph A. Bram. 122 pp., 33 figs.,
3 tables. March 6, 1967.

3558. Amblyceran Mallophaga (biting lice) found on the Bucerotidae
(hornbills), by Robert E. Elbel. 76 pp., 72 figs., 13 tables.
February 16, 1967.

3559. Studies of Neotropical caddis flies, II: Types of some species
described by Ulmer and Brauer, by Oliver S. Flint, Jr. 20 pp.,
5 figs., 2 pls. December 30, 1966.

3560. Notes and descriptions of some Neotropical agaristine moths
(Lepidoptera: Noctuidae), by E. L. Todd. 15 pp., 4 pls. Decem-
ber 30, 1966.

3561. Review of some species of Loxostege Hiibner and descriptions of
new species (Lepidoptera, Pyraustidae: Pyraustinae), by Hahn W.
Capps. 75 pp., 178 figs. March 15, 1967.
482 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967—-APPENDIX 3

3562. Notes on flies captured in treetops in Malaya (Diptera:
Empididae, Neriidae, Platystomatidae, Sepsidae, Muscidae),
by George C. Steyskal. 16 pp., 4 figs. December 30, 1966.

3563. Euphilomedes arostrata, a new myodocopid ostracod from Maldive
Islands, Indian Ocean, by Louis S. Kornicker. 21 pp., 10 figs.
February 15, 1967.

3564. A comparison of Australasian and American specimens of
Hemisquilla ensigera (Owen, 1832) (Crustacea: Stomatopoda), by
William Stephenson. 18 pp., 3 figs., 3 tables. March 8, 1967.

3565. The benthic Polychaeta and Amphipoda of Morro Bay,
California, by Donald J. Reish and J. Laurens Barnard. 26 pp.,
1 fig., 2 tables. March 8, 1967.

3566. Supplementary description of the myodocopid ostracod Euphil-
omedes multichelata from the Great Bahama Bank, by Louis S.
Kornicker. 16 pp., 6 figs. February 16, 1967.

3567 [end of volume]. Taxonomy, distribution, and polymorphism
in the Labidocera jollae group with remarks on evolution within the
group (Copepoda: Calanoida), by Abraham Fleminger. 61 pp.,
17 figs., 11 tables. April 18, 1967.

VOLUME 121 (numbers paged separately)

3568. Revision of click beetles of genus Melanotus in America north
of Mexico (Coleoptera: Elateridae), by Laurence W. Quate and
Sarah E. Thompson. 83 pp., 12 figs., | pl. April 18, 1967.

3569. Soldier fly larvae in America north of Mexico, by Max W.
McFadden. 72 pp., 156 figs. February 1, 1967.

3570. Revision of the family Pandaridae (Copepoda: Caligoida), by
Roger Cressey. 133 pp., 356 figs. February 16, 1967.

3571. Supplementary descriptions of two myodocopid ostracods from
the Red Sea by Louis S. Kornicker. 18 pp., 6 figs. February 16,
1967.

3572. Caligoid copepods parasitic on sharks of the Indian Ocean,
by Roger F. Cressey. 21 pp., 54 figs. March 15, 1967.

3573. New cyclopoid copepods associated with the alcyonarian coral
Tubipora musica (Linnaeus) in Madagascar, by Arthur G. Humes
and Ju-Shey Ho. 24 pp., 69 figs. March 8, 1967.

3574. Copepod crustaceans parasitic on teleost fishes of the Hawaiian
Islands, by Alan G. Lewis. 204 pp., 70 figs., 23 tables. June 22,
1967.

3575. Some bathyal polynoids from Central and Northeastern
Pacific (Polychaeta: Polynoids), by Marian H. Pettibone. 15 pp.,
5 figs. February 16, 1967.

3576. New species and records of Pacific Ampeliscidae (Crustacea:
Amphipoda), by J. Laurens Barnard. 20 pp., 4 figs. March 8,
1967.
PUBLICATIONS—SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION PRESS 483

3577. Bredin-Archbold-Smithsonian Biological Survey of Dominica:
1. The echinoids of Dominica, by Porter M. Kier. 10 pp., 3 figs.,
2 pls. December 30, 1966.

3578. Bredin-Archbold-Smithsonian Biological Survey of Dominica:
2. New species of Diptera from Dominica (Anisopodidae and
Bibionidae), by Alan Stone. 6 pp., 2 figs. December 30, 1966.

3579. Valid zoological names of the Portland Catalogue, by Harald A.
Rehder. 51 pp., 2 figs. March 21, 1967.

3580 [end of volume]. The myodocopid ostracod families Philo-
medidae and Pseudophilomedidae (new family), by Louis S.
Kornicker. 35 pp., 12 figs., 1 pl., 2 tables. February 16, 1967.

VOLUME 122 (numbers paged separately)

3581. Classification of the Western Hemisphere Balclutha (Homop-
tera: Cicadellidae), by H. Derrick Blocker. 55 pp., 35 figs. March
24 1967.

3582. Revision of the circumtropical shorefish genus Entomacrodus
(Blenniidae: Salariinae), by Victor G. Springer. 150 pp., 11 figs.,
30 pls., 70 tables. June 14, 1967.

3583. Bathypelagic calanoid copepods of the western Indian Ocean,
by George D. Grice and Kuni Hulsemann. 67 pp., 319 figs.,
itable, “March 15, 1967.

3584. The extinct sea mink, with taxonomic notes, by Richard H.
Manville. 12 pp., 2 figs., 1 pl., 2 tables. December 30, 1966.
3585. Neotropical Microlepidoptera, XII: Further studies on genus
Lethata (Lepidoptera: Stenomidae), by W. Donald Duckworth.

38 pp., 38 figs., 3 pls., 10 maps. March 6, 1967.

3586. New cyclopoid copepods associated with the coral Psammocora
contigua (Esper) in Madagascar, by Arthur G. Humes and Ju-Shey
Ho. 32 pp., 115 figs. March 8, 1967.

3587. A new genus and three new species of ostracods with a key to
genus Dactylocythere (Ostracoda: Entocytheridae), by Horton H.
Hobbs, Jr. 10 pp., 1 fig. February 16, 1967.

3588. Variation and distribution of the pelagic amphipod Cyphocaris
challengeri in the Northeast Pacific (Gammaridea: Lysianassidae),
by Thomas E. Bowman and John C. McCain. 14 pp., 9 figs.
February 16, 1967.

3589. Notes on the genus Manningia with description of a new species
(Crustacea: Stomatopoda), by Raymond B. Manning. 13 pp.,
3 figs., 1 table. March 15, 1967.
484 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967—APPENDIX 3

3590. Neotropical Microlepidoptera, XIII: Review of genus Loxotoma
(Lepidoptera: Stenomidae), by W. Donald Duckworth. 8 pp.,
9 figs., 1 pl., 1 map. March 15, 1967.

3591. Neotropical Microlepidoptera, XIV: Chilean Microlepidoptera
described by Emilio Blanchard, by J. F. Gates Clarke. 8 pp.,
5 figs. March 21, 1967.

3592. The psolid holothurian genus Lissothuria, by David L. Pawson.
17 pp., 5 figs. March 15, 1967.

3593. A new species of Victorella from southern California (Bryozoa:
Ctenostomata), by William C. Banta. 18 pp., 7 figs. April 18,
1967.

3594. A study of three species of Sarstella (Ostracoda: Myodocopa),
by Louis S. Kornicker. 46 pp., 4 pls., 19 figs. March 15, 1967.

3596. An enzyme method of clearing and staining small vertebrates,
by William Ralph Taylor. 17 pp. May 24, 1967.

3598. A new genus and new species of zoarcid fish from the north
Pacific Ocean, by Leonard P. Schultz. 5 pp., 3 figs. June 14,
1967.

3600 [end of volume]. Genus Glotopotes and a new species with notes
on host specificity and intraspecific variation (Copepoda: Caligoida)
by Roger F. Cressey. 22 pp., 55 figs., 4 pls. June 22, 1967.

VOLUME 123 (numbers paged separately)

3603. The species of Hermetia of the aurata group (Diptera: Stratio-
myidae), by Maurice T. James and Willis W. Wirth. 19 pp., 12
figs. June 22, 1967.

3607. The role of the depressor mandibulae muscle in kinesis of the
avian skull, by Richard Zusi. 28 pp., 13 figs. June 22, 1967.
3608. Studies of Neotropical caddis flies, IV: New species from
Mexico and Central America, by Oliver S. Flint, Jr. 24 pp.,

71 figs. June 22, 1967.

SMITHSONIAN CONTRIBUTIONS TO ASTROPHYSICS

VOLUME 9

[Whole volume.] Variable stars in the Small Magellanic Cloud, by
Cecilia Payne-Gaposhkin and Sergei Gaposhkin. vi+ 205 pp.,
21 figs., 130 tables. December 9, 1966.

VOLUME 10

2. 5,000- and 10,000-year star catalogs, by Gerald S. Hawkins and
Shoshana K. Rosenthal. pp. 144-179, 3 tables. May 1, 1967.
|

PUBLICATIONS—SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION PRESS 485

OFFICIAL PUBLICATIONS—INFORMATION LEAFLETS

Smithsonian research opportunities: Fine arts, history, science. vi-+ 153
pp. Publ. 4691, October 17, 1966. (N.C.)

National Collection of Fine Arts, Smithsonian Institution, foreword by
David W. Scott. 20 pp., 12 illustr. Publ. 4698, February 1967.
(N.C.)

Belmont, the Smithsonian Institution’s conference center at Elkridge,
Maryland. 8 pp., 7 illustr. Publ. 4703, February 1967. (N.C.)

Anthropology as a career, by William C. Sturtevant. 20 pp. Reprint,
revised, of publ. 4343, issued July 1958. March 20, 1967. (N.C.)

How to wet clean undyed cotton and linen, by Maureen Collins
McHugh. Smithsonian Institution Information Leaflet, no. 478,
10 pp., illustr. 1967.

Instructions for collecting bird parasites, by George E. Watson and A.
Binion Amerson, Jr. Smithsonian Institution Information Leaflet,
no. 477, 12 pp., illustr. 1967.
“ale TA MA ie ia A TAL
(Tape STE Te LL ees. ee ‘osedlll
PEE M-te: cain nod pti at vin rmgdo dace
0 CO o tie TE tn! wo) eee ig
eed sieieiad delviaalt PMraetincont? ay il" ep any ie
Cie) eral De thi)’ amills Sf gy OS nook Wi
i APS Ura @ aren Mime, Pia ee | ‘ie
setiallas te Wee queekins pina! dalnoebfeagay
COG) (NOR qemenist OPP Ud @ Ter eecllie Ty Gi
isthiestn qe ike a ia 2d we Bae
LOTS) 200) 00 dowM  BiOt vhil, bout) 2Per ide
iMG Maer) whyroull aed hay be ae
SUS ion aihhbns vnittmmin tanks sont edt vote Lit }
' + yy ak ttl aj @! shy
A bie dteitiat ih awrata? at eottege, PR pO
Mio Sata pital upivied bpenecd irtyrss| BOE
nae > Sloe oe

ma

rae

4

~ pelle

1 . et } “y

i ( i ~ 4 ae | 1)
t ba Ly
—
( é q ~ frweSrt
a ‘ 7 La
Vv i ‘ ] ? ‘
iT py rm
We
? yee i ae | \evr oie
a mK.
| ‘ wre The ro
=F ’< a yin? ’
i 17 wee. I yh
'
ce RA ie 7 by Bae $1, Lig ioty Ast ae :
" ives af ia ‘ce Pia 9 ig Whe s
Se

Smithsonian Associates

The interest and generous support of the Smithsonian Associates
have made it possible to initiate many new activities at the Institution
this year. For this, our deepest gratitude is extended to our more than
4,000 members, and especially to those listed below, who have contrib-
uted amounts in excess of the membership dues.

FOUNDER MEMBERS

The Hon. David K. E. Bruce Mr. Cornelius van S. Roosevelt
The Hon. Douglas Dillon Mr. Thomas J. Watson, Jr.
Mr. Charles E. Eckles Mr. and Mrs. Sidney S. Zlotnick

Mrs. John Clifford Folger

SUSTAINING MEMBERS

Mrs. Theodore Babbitt Mr. Laurence Harrison

Mr. Joel Barlow Mr. Philip Johnson

Mr. William R. Biggs Miss Brenda Kuhn

Mr. George A. Binney Col. Leon Mandel

Mr. Hardy Jefferson Bowen Mr. and Mrs. J. Willard Marriott
Mrs. L. Roosevelt Bramwell Mr. William McC. Martin, Jr.
Mr. A. Marvin Braverman Mr. Paul Mellon

Mr. John Nicholas Brown The Duke of Northumberland
Mr. Bertram F. Brummer Mrs. K. D. Owen

Mr. Leon Campbell, Jr. Dr. and Mrs. Melvin M. Payne
Mr. and Mrs. Leonard Carmichael Mrs. Merriweather Post

Clarke and Rapuano Foundation Mr. and Mrs. Peter G. Powers
Mrs. Frances A. Davila Miss Elsie Howland Quinby

Mr. Henry F. Dupont Mr. and Mrs. S. Dillon Ripley
Mr. Newell W. Ellison Mr. and Mrs. Seymour J. Rubin
Mr. and Mrs. Richard Friedman Mr HaiG@sSehern Toss

Mr. Richard E. Fuller

Mr. Hy Garfinkel

Mr. George A. Garrett

Mr. Crawford H. Greenewalt

Mrs. Jouett Shouse
Mr. Alexander O. Vietor
Mr. and Mrs. John W. Warner

Mr. William Hershey Greer, Jr. Dr. Alexander Wetmore
Mr. Melville B. Grosvenor Mr. and Mrs. W. Bradley Willard
Mr. Gilbert Hahn Mrs. Rose Saul Zalles

487
488 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967—APPENDIX 4

CONTRIBUTING MEMBERS

The Ahmanson Foundation

Mr. John D. Archbold

Mr. and Mrs. John W. Auchincloss
Mrs. Robert Low Bacon

Mr. Charles E. Baker

Mrs. Paul H. Bastedo

Mr. and Mrs. James C. H. Bonbright
Mme. Draper Boncompagni

Mr. Maxwell Brace

Mr. J. Bruce Bredin

Mrs. George R. Brown

Mr. William A. M. Burden

Mrs. Jackson Burke

Mrs. Poe Burling

Col. and Mrs. D. Harold Byrd
Mrs. Morris Cafritz

Mr. and Mrs. G. Howland Chase
Mr. Leon Chatelain, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. David Sanders Clark
Mr. Thomas G. Corcoran

Mr. William H. Crocker

Mrs. Lilla B. Cummings

Mrs. Chester Dale

Mr. and Mrs. Ewen C. Dingwall
Mr. and Mrs. Charles Eames

Mr. Robert B. Eichholz

Waldron Faulkner

Col. and Mrs. Horace H. Figuers
Mrs. Dielle Fleischmann

Mr. and Mrs. Edward Foley

Hon. and Mrs. Peter Frelinghuysen
Miss Mary S. Gardiner

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph T. Geuting, Jr.
Rev. and Mrs. C. Leslie Glenn
Mr. and Mrs. T. K. Glennan

Mr. and Mrs. Charles Glover, III
Mr. Henry Clay Hofheimer, II
Mrs. Albert L. Hoffman

Miss Elisabeth Houghton

Mr. Arthur A. Houghton, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. George S. Johnston

Mrs. John Thomas Kennedy, III
Miss Martha Jane Kennedy
Mr. Robert Ketchum

Mrs. R. A. Kidder

Mr. and Mrs. Dan A. Kimball
Dr. and Mrs. Robert F. Kneipp
Mr. and Mrs. Anthony A. Lapham
Mrs. Cazenove Lee

Mrs. Newbold Legendre

Mr. and Mrs. Jack L. Leon
Mr. Harold F. Linder

Mr. G. Carroll Lindsay

Mrs. Demarest Lloyd

Mr. Grover Loening

Rev. Brian A. McGrath, S.J.
Mr. John F. Merriam

Mrs. William Morden

Dr. James M. Nabrit, Jr.

Mr. Gerson Nordlinger, Jr.

Mr. Gyo Obata

Mr. and Mrs. Robert R. O’Donnell
The Hon. and Mrs. J. Patterson
Miss Helen Ripley

Mr. James H. Ripley

Mr. R. E. Schoenfeld

Mr. John J. Slocum

Dr. and Mrs. Carl Swan Shultz
Mrs. Bruce D. Smith

Mr. Robert T. Smith

Mr. T. D. Stewart

Mrs. Catherine H. Sweeney
Mr. Ward E. Terry

Mrs. Clark W. Thompson

Mr. and Mrs. Middleton Train
Mr. and Mrs. Russell Train
Mr. and Mrs. Robert D. van Roijen
Mr. George C. Webster

Mr. and Mrs. J. R. Wiggins
Mr. Edward Foss Wilson

Mrs. Orme Wilson

Mr. Christian A. Zabriskie
oe

Members of the Smithsonian Council

June 30, 1967

H. HarvarpD ARNASON. Vice President for Art Administration of the

Solomon R. Guggenheim Foundation, 1071 Fifth Avenue, New
York, New York 10028. Born 1909. B.S. and A.M. North-
western University, M.F.A. Princeton University, 1939. Worked
with O.W.I. 1942-1945 and the State Department, Office of
International Information and Cultural Affairs, 1945-1946;
from 1947-1961 served as professor and chairman of the Depart-
ment of Art at the University of Minnesota; appointed to
present position in 1961. Member of the Art in America editorial
board as well as many professional organizations. Author of
numerous articles on medieval and modern art, Modern Sculpture
(1962) and Conrad Marca-Relli (1962).

WHITFIELD J. BELL, JR. Association Librarian, American Philo-

FRED

sophical Society, 105 South Fifth Street, Philadelphia, Penn-
sylvania 19106. Born 1914. A.B. Dickinson College, Ph. D.
University of Pennsylvania, 1947. Associated with Dickinson
College 1937-1954; assistant and then associate editor of the
Papers of Benjamin Franklin 1954-1961; and from 1961 Associa-
tion Librarian of the American Philosophical Society. Editor
of Bibliography of the History of Medicine in the U.S. and Canada
(1948-1953) and Mr. Franklin (with L. W. Labaree) (1956).
Author of Needs and Opportunities for Research in the History of
Early American Science (1955).

R. Eccan. Department of Anthropology, University of Chicago,
1126 East 59th Street, Chicago, Ilinois 60601. Born 1906.
Ph. B., University of Chicago, Ph. D. University of Chicago, 1933.
Has been with the University of Chicago since 1934 (Chairman
of the Department of Anthropology since 1961 and Director
of the Philippine Studies Program since 1953). Has served
as the U.S. official delegate to the Pacific Science Congresses

489
490

SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967—-APPENDIX 5

in Manila (1953), Bangkok (1957), and Honolulu (1961).
Research centers on the Indians of western United States and
the tribes of the Philippines. Author of Social Organization of
the Western Pueblos (1959). Editor of Social Anthropology of North
American Tribes (1937 and 1955).

DonaLp S. FARNER. Chairman, Department of Zoology, University

of Washington, Seattle, Washington 98105. Born 1915. B.A.
Hamline University, Ph. D. University of Wisconsin, 1941.
Washington State University 1947-1966 (Dean of the Graduate
School 1960-1966). Author of The Birds of Crater Lake National
Park (1952) and contributor to many scientific publications,
mainly on the subject of ornithology.

ANTHONY N. B. GaArRvAN. Chairman, Department of American

Civilization, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsyl-
vania 19104. Born 1917. B.A. and M.A. Yale University,
Ph. D. Yale University, 1948. Has been with the University of
Pennsylvania since 1951, except three years (1957-1960) as Head
Curator of the Department of Civil History at the Smithsonian
Institution (Chairman of the Department of American Civiliza-
tion since 1960). Editor of the American Quarterly 1951-1957.
Author of Architecture and Town Planning in Colonial Connecticut
(1951), Index of American Cultures (1953).

G. EveLtyn Hutcuinson. Sterling Professor of Zoology, Yale Univer-

sity, New Haven, Connecticut 06520. Born 1903. University
of Cambridge. Has been at Yale since 1928. Author of The
Clear Mirror (1936), The Itinerant Ivory Tower (1953), A Treatise on
Limnology, Vol. 1 (1957), A Preliminary List of the Writings of Rebecca
West 1919-1951 (1957), The Enchanted Voyage (1962), The Ecological
Theater and the Evolutionary Play (1965), and many scientific papers.
Studies lie in the fields of oceanography and limnology, ecology,
population biology, and biology in the development of literature
and the fine arts.

Jan LaRue. Department of Music, Graduate School of Arts and

Sciences, New York University, New York, New York 10003.
Born 1918. S.B. Harvard, M.F.A. Princeton University,
Ph. D. Harvard University, 1952. Taught at Wellesley College
1942-1943, 1946-1957 (Instructor to Associate Professor and
Chairman of the Music Department), with New York University
since 1957. Author of numerous articles on 18th-century music,
style analysis, ethnomusicology, papyrology and bibliography,
computers and music and musicological editing.
MEMBERS OF THE SMITHSONIAN COUNCIL 491

Currrorp L. Lorp. President, Hofstra University, Hempstead, Long
Island, New York 11550. Born 1912. A.B. and A.M. Amherst
College, Ph. D. Columbia University, 1943. Was Director of the
New York State Historical Association 1941—1946; organized the
Farmers’ Museum in Cooperstown, New York, in 1942; Honorary
Director of Circus World Museum (Director 1955-1958); Vice
President of the National Railroad Museum 1956—; Dean of the
School of General Studies and Professor of History at Columbia
University 1958-1965. Member of many historical associations.
Author of History of U.S. Naval Aviation (1949).

CHARLES D. MicHENER. Watkins Distinguished Professor of Entomol-
ogy, University of Kansas, Lawrence, Kansas 66044. Born 1918.
B.S. University of California at Berkeley, Ph. D. University of
California at Berkeley, 1941. Has been with the University of
Kansas since 1948 (Watkins Distinguished Professor since 1959).
Served as State Entomologist 1949-1961. Author of American
Social Insects (with Mary H. Michener) (1951), Nest Architecture
of the Sweat Bees (with S. F. Sakagami) (1962), and approximately
200 technical works, mainly on bees. Work in taxonomy reflects
his interest in concepts of numerical taxonomy, behavior, and
ecology.

PETER M. MitimMaAn. National Research Council of Canada, Ottawa
2, Ontario, Canada. Born 1906. B.A. Toronto, Ph. D. Harvard
University, 1932. President of the Royal Astronomical Council
of Canada. A meteoritic specialist whose studies include those
of the upper atmosphere with planetary and space research; also
interested in the culture of Japan and international exchanges.

Extinc E. Morison. Acting Master, Ezra Stiles College, Yale Univer-
sity, New Haven, Connecticut 06520. Born 1909. A.B. Harvard
University, M.A. Harvard University, 1937. Was a member of
the faculty of Massachusetts Institute of Technology 1946-1966.
Served as consultant to Houghton-Mifflin Company 1946-1951,
and to Research and Development Board, U.S. Department of
Defense 1946-1952. Author of Admiral Sims and the Modern
American Navy (1942), and A Study of the Life and Times of Henry L.
Stimson (1960). Editor of The Letters of Theodore Roosevelt (8 vols.)
(1951-1954) ; Cowboys and Kings (1954); The American Style (1959).

RoBerRT MOTHERWELL. 173 East 94th Street, New York, New York
10028. Born 1915. A.B. Stanford University, 1937. A well-
known artist who has exhibited nationally and internationally
and contributes to American and foreign magazines. Editor of

The Documents of Modern Art 1944-1952.
492 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967—-APPENDIX 5

NorMAn D. NeEwELL. Curator of Fossil Invertebrates, American
Museum of Natural History, New York, New York. Born 1909.
B.S. and A.M. University of Kansas, Ph. D. Yale University,
1933. Since 1945 has been a professor at Columbia University
as well as curator of invertebrate paleontology at the American
Museum of Natural History. Author of The Nature of the Fossil
Record (1959), Organism Communities and Bottom Facies, Great Bahama
Bank (1959) and is the organizer of the pelecypod volume of the
Treatise on Paleontology. Co-editor of the Journal of Paleontology
(1939-1942). Has visited all parts of North America, Europe,
Australia, and Asia in the study of the Permian of the world.

NormMAn Howmes Pearson. Professor of American Studies, Yale
University, New Haven, Connecticut 06520. Born 1909. A.B.
Yale University, Ph. D. Yale University, 1941. Has been with
Yale University since 1941. Editor of Complete Novels of Haw-
thorne (1937), The Oxford Anthology of American Literature (with
W. R. Benet) (1938), Walden (1948), Poets of the English Language
(with W. H. Auden) (1950), and The Pathfinder (1952).

ANDRE SCHIFFRIN. Editorial Director, Pantheon Books, 22 East 51
Street, New York, New York 10022. Born 1935. B.A. Yale
University, 1957. Received degree from Cambridge 1959. Has
been with Pantheon Books since 1962. Editor of Pantheon
Studies in Social History, including Edward Thompson’s The
Making of the English Working Class and Michel Foucault’s Madness
and Civilization.

FREDERICK SeEITz, President, National Academy of Sciences, 2101
Constitution Avenue, NW., Washington, D.C. 20418. Born
1911. A.B. Leland Stanford Jr. University, Ph. D. Princeton
University, 1934. Has taught physics at University of Rochester,
University of Pennsylvania, Carnegie Institute of Technology,
and University of Illinois (Head of Department of Physics
1957—) (also Dean of Graduate College and Vice President for
Research 1964-1965). Was Chairman of Governing Board of
the American Institute of Physics 1954-1959. President,
National Academy of Sciences since 1962. Author of Modern
Theory of Solids (1940), The Physics of Metals (1943).

Cyrit STANLEY SmiTH. Institute Professor, Room 14N—321, Massa-
chusetts Institute of Technology, 77 Massachusetts Avenue,
Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139. Born 1903. B.S. University
of Birmingham, Sc. D. Massachusetts Institute of Technology,
1926. Has been with M.I.T. since 1945 (Institute Professor
since 1961). Was a member of the President’s Science Advisory
MEMBERS OF THE SMITHSONIAN COUNCIL 493

Committee in 1959. Coauthor of Structure and Properties of Solid
Surfaces (1953), Reaumur’s Memoirs on Steel and Iron (1956),
Treatise on Divers Arts by Theophilus (1963). Author of A History
of Metallography (1960). A primary interest is the historical
interaction between science and technology, and he is a frequent
consultant to the Freer Gallery of Art and the Smithsonian
Office of Anthropology.

Joun D. Spikes. College of Letters and Science, University of Utah,
Salt Lake City, Utah 84112. Born 1918. B.S. California
Institute of Technology, Ph. D. California Institute of Tech-
nology, 1948. Has been with the University of Utah since 1948
(except for a period on leave as Cell Physiologist of the Division
of Biology and Medicine of the Atomic Energy Commission).
Became Dean of the College of Letters and Science in 1964.
Author of numerous publications in scientific journals, bulletins,
etc. Major research is in biophysics, especially photobiology.

STEPHEN E. Toutmin. Department of the History and Philosophy of
Science, Brandeis University, Waltham, Massachusetts 02154.
Born 1922. B.A. King’s College, Ph. D. King’s College, 1948.
Has taught at Oxford, University of Melbourne, University of
Leeds, New York University, Stanford University, and Columbia
University, and from 1960-1966 was Director of the Nuffield
Foundation Unit for History of Ideas. Author of The Place of
Reason in Ethics (1950); The Philosophy of Science, an Introduction
(1953); Metaphysical Beliefs (author of one of three essays) (1957) ;
The Uses of Argument (1958); Foresight and Understanding (1961) ;
“The Ancestry of Science”: vol. 1 (The Fabric of Heavens) (1961),
vol. 2 (The Architecture of Matter) (1962), vol. 3 (The Discovery of
Time) (1965); Night Sky at Rhodes (1963).

WarREN H. WacneER, JR. Department of Botany, University of
Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan 48105. Born 1920. A.B.
University of Pennsylvania, Ph. D. University of California at
Berkeley, 1950. Has been a member of the faculty of the Uni-
versity of Michigan since 1951. Serves as a panelist in syste-
matic biology for Nationa! Science Foundation 1962—. Re-
search centers on higher plants, origin and evolution of ferns,
methods of accurate deduction of phylogenetic relationships of
fossil and living plants.
v i a“
Lava ida
7 Nhe si we

pas, verte D iedeeradb
ater seraky AGRA! we etag i in ermine eh
EA. be GORA - LR) oh ee sO 0
Kesar pegged seth ithe TAD dey remain Oh ip OREBE iti
In a ae iioc-bnevreiloerloe: beet aqdioe revoggpc rk}
pcbreariper? w(ly: ind a te Gon qnsllecn rewret _ dae tut
bare tte fay rick oe “alent
sett Fey leo ist By entdin tyne weujal 10 sytney)
ROME SA OR paolo: Mere RP 4
sploes tS Ser srtared diets! 1) Poplar re zs
G0} SDA Hes) Ly Vt dye kite Wi 4 Ke eae re id ; ,
NM? Bits set eet (hf oir(eeol bo dite ie

2

(gad Die, Lsimne | i yeas of rea Ue i 20 “pate bert
ASB nh. Rinses” toGial. lo soMoD wealy We oysGn
£ P \ 1 4 ur hte *

nde) 4 THavet i BMP CT aT ye cs ACI TLIC Bis
Lo ' ) :
rrntond Wyse Ye eaIUE 3 wy ef oe | (atest ie 4

u ie a lata ribeikt 4 vine Pet  Pyae

be (LI ejtae Oelwh cabs 1 aw, Vileseryed pape a
"Ff

cine = 4 f 2 i ie be) AY y > zi sett

“ToRVS: scorpio N FIX cBaas vee win F
vba lend hein) 3? ev h tran teh he whl Ava are
bistititiredé) ty vasiGh eave M0 Gl 1 Whe d ‘bdge aa
way san +H, 4 : oy) . el tey 4 ~~) 4 ya Vieaeair ‘Cb revit i} wee

MOMS vo cin ere te hon > ouplael f psoas 3
Nays ;
ts bi } Sates on oi vey } ‘? 2 \xsbakh bessd ace Ke
CTO) ) oncicuseiienie =O)

+ N ‘ ‘ > _ ye eee ine i er
Mi SAP aviine Pi Ges na’ dé : ‘aopGl | Sat sat tbs
HH ? t Pa! r th bys ¢ 4} lé4 Pee fs ue
dad AVON AD (eben eciniald 6 nancial ll
std? cd PCa Pt Sie 2033 x uv pxtianivuchd Gaem

A" ;
day iamnig st tA nerriggth: ARR Pyidinl ist i ih
">| uf)f «> sh Pee oot naire qnuorrt 4
ikon certs it 4g ry feted
:

if wf) bai i A wifitt Z tits i> 70 TUN by pe Ue yates aa
\ pee
Serre
cei
6.

Research Participation Programs

Appointments 1966—1967
Post-Doctoral, Graduate, Undergraduate

POST-DOCTORAL RESEARCH ASSOCIATES

CHARLES J. BARTLETT, Massachusetts Institute of Technology: Stellar and
interplanetary dynamics.

Car W. Connirt, Northwestern University: The history of building materials
and techniques.

Tetsuro Hanal, University of Tokyo: Ecology and taxonomy of Ostracoda.

Leo J. Hickey, Princeton University: Lowermost Wasatchian floras of western
North Dakota and central Wyoming.

CLARENCE J. LAUGHLIN, Research of the nature of the achievements of Ameri-
can Victorianism, especially as involved with the field of architecture.

Cuauncey C. Loomis, Princeton University: A biography of Charles Francis
Hall.

KATHERINE LuoMALA, University of Hawaii: Gilbert Islands culture and
ecology.

Rosert H. McCorke.t, Massachusetts Institute of Technology: Study of
extraterrestial materials in sea sediments by means of cosmic ray pro-
duced radio-isotopes.

Joun V. Murra, University of Chicago: Research on anthropology of Andean
societies.

W. Joun Niven, Claremont Graduate School: A biography of Gideon Welles,
Connecticut editor of the Jacksonian period.

THoRNTON L. Pace, Wesleyan University: Evolution of galaxies.

FRANCESCO PARENTI, Universita Degli Studi di Milano: Effect of previous
photoperiodic treatment of leaves on biosynthetic capacity of isolated
chloroplasts.

VLaApIMIR Pokorny, Karlova Universita, Charles University (Prague, Czecho-
slovakia): Research on the ostracodes of the family Hemicytheridae.

Jay C. Suarrer, Cornell University: Taxonomy of the Anerastiinae of the
Western Hemisphere.

SoEKARJA SOMADIKARTA, Museum Zoologicum Bogoriense (Indonesia): Study
of the systematics of genus Collocalia of the East Indian swift.

495
496 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967—APPENDIX 6

GrorcE A. Tuomas, University of Melbourne (Australia): Upper Paleozoic
Brachopods from Northwest Australia.

ALAN M. Tirte, California Institute of Technology: Solar velocity fields.

TREVOR C. WEEKES, University College, Dublin: High energy gamma rays from
astronomical objects.

Howarp O. Wricut, University of California at Berkeley: Social behavior of
crabs.

GRADUATE RESEARCH PARTICIPATION PROGRAM

(*denotes Predoctoral Internship)

LEONARD P. ALBERSTADT,* University of Oklahoma: A comparative study of
Upper Ordovician brachiopods with a detailed statistical analysis of
several orthid genera.

MicueE-e A. L. AvpricH, University of Texas: A guide to manuscripts (science)
in the Smithsonian Institution collections.

TRENTON W. Batson, JR., George Washington University: Compilation of
historical data concerning railroad-car building firm of Eaton and
Gilbert, Troy, New York.

JosepH L. Cameron, Davis and Elkins College: Organization of periodicals and
catalogues; mounting slides portraying much of NCFA’s permanent
collection.

Everett D. CasHatt, Catholic University: Continuation and expansion of
1964 project of consolidating and rearranging, according to the latest
revisionary study, the USNM collection of N. A. Chrysauginae.

WapbeE D. CuHambers,* Harvard University: Theories of evolution and of race
in nineteenth-century Latin America.

T. JoHn Conomos,* University of Washington: Chemical and mineral compo-
sition of suspended particulate matter transported by the Columbia
River to the coastal waters of the Pacific Ocean.

Nancy M. Cramer,* George Washington University: Spionidae of the Gulf and
the Caribbean.

IsaBEL M. Davies, University of London: Investigation of historical records
pertaining to china used by the First Ladies; Study of World War I
posters.

Beatriz E. R. pE FERRADAS,* Universidad Nacional de Cérdoba (Argentina):
A study of the ornithology, mammalogy, and acarology of Argentina.

ANANDA Duse,* Patna University (India): Mineralogical and chemical investi-
gations on some rare Indian meteorites.

Lewis Epson, Humboldt State University: Revision of the Genus Scolytus
(Scolytidae Colesptera) in North America.

Carotyn R. Fawcett, Radcliffe College: Transcribing and translating from
notebook of Lorenzo della Volpaia, a contemporary of Cellini, da Vinci,
and Poliziano, with particular attention to the planetary clock and
scientific instruments designed and executed by della Volpaia.

James K. FLacx,* Wayne State University: The influence of an intellectual elite
on American politics, 1860—1900.
RESEARCH PARTICIPATION PROGRAMS 497

Amy J. GitMarTIN, University of Hawaii: An alpha taxonomic and taximetric
study of the Bosmeliaceae of Ecuador.

BARBARA GREENBERG, University of Texas: A guide to science manuscripts in
the Smithsonian Institution collections.

Ratpy W. GuNDERSON, JR., University of Minnesota: Taxonomic studies on
the Genus Enochrus for Mexico, Central America, and the West Indies
(Hydrophilidae: Coleoptera).

Lee H. Herman, Catholic University: Investigation of the taxonomy and
zoogeography of the 40 genera of the subfamily Oxytelinae, with intense
study of the large genus Bledius.

CriaupE M. Hiapixk,* Université de Paris a la Sorbonne: Feeding behavior and
diet of primates in respect to comparative histology and histochemistry of
digestive system.

Puy us J. Kincspury, University of Oklahoma: Identification of one group of
freshwater and marine copepods.

Cuares J. LARue, Jr., University of Maryland: Variation and functional
interrelations of the major components of the bird skull.

Joun N. MacTavisu, Western Reserve University: Study of faunal elements of
part of the Lodgepole limestone, Teton Mountains, Wyoming.

Akiko Murakata,* George Washington University: Analysis and clarification
of imperialist and non-imperalist arguments following the Spanish-
American war.

Martin G. NAuUMANN,* University of Kansas: Observations on the biology of
the social wasps of Central America.

JANE E. Nretson, George Washington University: Origin of nickel-iron alloys
in terrestrial rocks.

Joun R. OppENHEIMER,* University of Illinois: Ecology and behavior of the
white-faced monkey Cubus capucinus.

Gate E. Peterson, University of Maryland: Research on the history of
herbicides; completed report on the discovery and development of
2,4-D.

GeorcE E. Rapwin,* George Washington University: A review of the genus
Anachis H. & A. Adams in the Western Atlantic.

Matiory B. Ranpie,* University of Texas: Southwestern muralists and
sculptors of the PWAP: a study and catalogue of the permanent decora-
tions in public buildings of 1933-34.

James L. REvEAL,* Brigham Young University: A revision of the genus
Eriogonum, subgenus Ganysma.

Ken E. Rocers, University of Tennessee: Revision of the genus Manisuris.

Pastora E. SanJuan,* George Washington University: A study of the chang-
ing role of the woman in America during the nineteenth century.

FRANK SCHITOSKEY, JR., Texas Technological College: Research on the house
mice of Iran.

KENNETH W. Suipps, Yale University: Inquiry into development and prev-
alence of political campaign music in the U.S. from the earliest traces in
Jefferson’s campaign through 1860.
498 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967—APPENDIX 6

Dorman H. Smitu, University of California at Berkeley: Development of
systematic music iconography index; preparation of musical instrument
collection checklist.

Nicuo.as E. SMyTHE,* University of Maryland: The behavior and ecology of
three neotropical cavimorph rodents.

FLoyp W. Stecker,* Harvard University: Investigation of the physical con-
ditions and photon and particle interactions relevant to superdense states
of matter which might correspond to the early stages of the big-bang
model of the universe.

Donna M. Stein, New York University: Detailed study of Whistler and
Turner paintings in the NCFA collections.

MicuaeE_ E. Tay or, University of California at Berkeley: Biostratigraphy of
the Upper Cambrian Biomere in Eastern Nevada:

ALLAN Watson,* University of London: The preparation of a synopsis of the
world genera of Arctiidae and to produce a revisionary catalogue of same.

MicHAEL P. WILDERMAN, University of Miami: Systemics and ecology of
copepod parasites.

Epwin N. WILMsEN,* University of Arizona: A systemization of the description
and classification of Paleo-Indian lithic inventories and drawing the
sociological inferences from them.

UNDERGRADUATE RESEARCH PARTICIPATION PROGRAM

Cuar.es H. BALLARD, University of Michigan: Prepared an index to photo-
graphs in the George H. Clark collection of radioana; performed ex-
periments to determine feasibility of exhibiting an operational spark
transmitter and coherer receiver of types that would have been used
circa 1901.

Witu1am O. Beeman, Wesleyan University: Learning concepts and principles
of the study of ethnohistory and acculturation; application of these
principles to a series of manuscripts (in German) on Georgia history in
order to obtain information concerning the early ethnology of Creek
Indians.

Cecit1A B. Brown, Mount Holyoke College: Consolidation of part of inflated
larval collection from adult collection of Lepidoptera.

DanicEL C. Cuurcn, Yale University: Studying manifestations of the American
romantic movement in objects of material culture in connection with the
Gothic and Italianate revivals.

Deporau P. CLements, Bennington College: Sought, studied, and catalogued
biographical information concerning 19th-century French civil engineers.

Rosert L. CorrMan, JR., Indiana University (Bloomington): Attempting to
discover possible correlation between early stages of plant growth and later
development.

Martua Cooper, Oxford University: Study of anthropological analyses of
art, especially in Oceania.
RESEARCH PARTICIPATION PROGRAMS 499

Rosin L. Davis, Grinnell College: Study of several species in subfamily of
sparrows to determine whether the inflated bubble-like bone covering the
ear in some instances is linked with a special habitat or a certain type of
behavior.

Raymonp J. DEMALLIE, JR., University of Chicago: Study of materials relat-
ing to the three divisions of Dakota Indians, as well as other closely re-
lated Siouan Tribes.

Gtoria J. Epynak, Goucher College: Measured long bones in skeletons of
Eskimo children and found many sexual differentiations.

Sytv1a H. Forman, University of California at Berkeley: Examination of
Peruvian and other New World crania for indications of osteoporosis.

BenjAMIN A. G. Futter, III, Princeton University: Study of commerce in the
port of Charleston from 1752 through 1766, primarily to determine the
effects of war upon the city’s commerce.

Jerotp L. GrasHorr, Michigan State University: Comparative anatomical
study of bambusoid grasses.

Patricia M. GREENE, Manhattanville College of the Sacred Heart: Worked
on several projects concerned with various aspects of American portraiture

JupitH M. GREENFIELD, Alleghany College: Compiled bibliographical cata-
logues and files on certain groups of gastropods.

Mary G. Hype, Alleghany College: Survey of specific changes in American
military costume.

KENNETH S. Kars, University of Virginia: Study of scale morphology and
differentiation in the North American cyprinid genus Hybopsis and
comparison of the relationships of 25 species to other cyprinid fishes;
compilation of special systematic bibliography of literature concerning
Blennoidea fishes; sorting and identifying Indian Ocean blennoid fish.

Evinor R. KEENAN, George Washington University: Compiling an inventory
of U.S.N.M. Japanese ceramic collection; discerning which shapes and
designs of pottery were influenced by Japanese fashion, and which by
Western fashion, during the period 1850-1920.

Joyce A. Keener, Bennington College: Assisted in preparation of a catalogue
of Mary Cassatt’s paintings, pastels, watercolors, and drawings.

Doris E. Kettey, Wellesley College: Studied history of quantum mechanics,
especially the theoretical development of Schrodinger’s wave mechanics.

BENJAMIN B. Kitpourne, Yale University: Studied techniques of exhibit
installation.

Witzur R. Knorr, Harvard University: Study of U.S.N.M. collection of
planimeters as well as other devices for integration which were
primarily developed during the period 1815-1870.

PeTer L. Korrsky, Oberlin College: Investigated records concerning the
Consul General’s Shanghai Postal Agency during the period 1867-1907.

Saux J. Krorxt, University of Utah: Assisted in organization and integration
of Bosch mineral collection; studied advanced techniques of crystal
drawing: made x-ray identifications of rare mineral specimens.
500 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967—-APPENDIX 6

EvizaBeTH B. LassisTER, Bennington College: Analysis and description of 40
of the pocket notebooks of Joseph Henry.

ANDREW D. Leeps, Bard College: A study of American hand-painted political
banners.

Jerrrey A. Levy, Bard College: Morphometric study of parasitic copepoda on
fish.

Stuart J. MacKenzie, II, Notre Dame University: Research on German and
Japanese aircraft in NASM collections.

RussELL B. MERRILL, University of Kansas: Study and description of append-
ages of two species of Actinocythereis, Puri, 1953, from the Northeastern
WS:

HarvILEEN M. Moess, George Washington University: Investigated initial
effects of light irradiation in plants; studied levels of phosphates to de-
termine what changes occur in growth process.

STEFANIE A. Munsinc, American University: Assisted in compiling an inventory
of NCFA paintings on loan to government agencies.

Caro J. NoEt, Mary Baldwin College: Observed, classified, sectioned, stained
and compared specimens of freshwater turbellaria.

Rosert W. Poors, Cornell University: Study of the genus Pero, family
Geometridae.

Joan M. Ryan, College of New Rochelle: Chemical analyses of several me-
teorites, using both ‘‘wet’”’ procedures and instrumental methods.
Janet G. ScHECTER, City College of New York: Prepared critical bibliography

of American Indian literature.

VerE H. Scott, University of Manitoba: Compiled information on three rare
species of African antelope.

SanpRa E. Seim, Webster College: Sorted and identified various groups of
marine benthic invertebrates.

Wiiu1aM L. Sitxsrone, Kalamazoo College: Hermaphroditism in fishes of the
order Iniomi and its relationship to the problem of classification.

Dorotny Spates, University of North Carolina (Greensboro): Studied tech-
niques of collecting, classifying, and storing botanical specimens.

JEFFREY M. SranpeR, California State University (Hayward): Investigated
the systematics of North Pacific Paguridae for the purpose of revising the
old method of subjective description.

James A. TEERI, University of New Hampshire: Studied floral anatomy of
Rhexia virginica (Melastomataceae).

Ann C. UNDERHILL, Beloit College: Recorded data on growth and maturation
of six species of tenrecs; also studied vocalizations of young spider monkeys.

Rosert E. Weems, Randolph-Macon College: Restoration and study of the
remains of twelve individual turtles from the Calvert formation (Miocene
era).

Francis M. Wiuiams, Southern Colorado State College: Experiments con-
cerned with effects of light on growth of corn coleoptiles.
Be

Staff of the Smithsonian Institution

Secretary
Office of the Secretary

Assistant Secretary
Office of the Assistant
Secretary

Assistant Secretary (Science)
Office of the Assistant
Secretary (Science)

Oceaonography and
Limnology

Ecology

Office of International
Activities

Office of Education and
Training
Office of General Counsel
Office of Public Affairs |
Smithsonian Institution Press
Smithsonian Institution
Libraries

Fune 30, 1967

S. Ditton RIPLEY

Rosert W. Mason, Executive Assistant

Puitip C. RITTERBUsH, Assistant to the Secretary

Cuarves L. Crapp, Assistant to the Secretary
(Development).

JAMeEs BRADLEY

Joun WuirTeELAw, Executive Assistant

Mrs. DorotHy ROsENBERG, Administrative Officer

Oris O. MarrtIN, Financial Management Adviser

Douctas R. Martin, Internal Auditor

ELpRipGE O. Hurxsvut, Contracting Officer

RosBErT ENGLE, Engineering Assistant

SwwnEy R. GALLER

Mrs. HELEN L. Hayes, Special Assistant

Harry Hyman, Special Assistant

MicHaAEL A. STAHL, Administrative Officer

I. EuGeENE WALLEN, Head, Office of Oceanog-
raphy and Limnology

H. ADAIR FEHLMANN, Supervisor, Smithsonian
Oceanographic Sorting Center

Hevmut K. Buecuner, Head, Office of Ecology

Lee M. Ta.sor, Field Representative, Ecology
and Conservation

WILLIAM W. Warner, Director

KENNEDY B. ScHMERTZ, Director,
Currency Program

CHARLES BLITZER, Director

Foreign

PETER G. Powers, General Counsel

Freperic M. Puivips,! Director

ANDERS RICHTER, Director

Mrs. Mary A. Hurrer, Acting Director

Rutw E. BLancHarD, Library of Congress
Liaison

1 Appointment effective July 2, 1967.

501
502 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967—APPENDIX 7

Smithsonian Archives
Smithsonian Museum Service
Smithsonian Associates
Fiscal

Organization and Methods
Programming and Budget
Information Systems
Personnel

Buildings Management
Supply

Photographic Services

SAMUEL T. SuRATT, Archivist

James R. Morris, Director

Mrs. Lisa M. SuTER, Program Director

Mrs. Betry J. Morcan, Assistant Treasurer
(Private)

Ernest A. BERGER, Fiscal Officer (Federal)

Mrs. ANN S. CAMPBELL, Chief

Epwarp H. Konn, Director

NicHovas J. SusZynsk1, Director

J. A. Kennepy, Director

ANDREW F. MICHAELS, JR., Director

FreD G. Barwick, Chief

O. H. Greeson, Chief

MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY

Director

Deputy Director

Special Assistant for Tropical
Biology

Administrative Officers

Smithsonian Office of
Anthropology

Latin American

Anthropology

Old World Anthropology

North American
Anthropology

Physical Anthropology

River Basin Surveys

RICHARD S. COWAN
Dona.p F. Squires
F. RAYMOND FOSBERG

Mrs. MABEL A. ByrD

Joun J. PRENZEL

Sau H. RiesenBerc Chairman

T. Date Stewart, Senior Physical Anthropol-
ogist

Wa po R. WEDEL, Senior Archeologist

Joun C. Ewers, Senior Ethnologist

Mrs. M. BLakeEr, Archivist

WiiuraM H. Crocker, Supervisor and Associate
Curator

CuiFForD Evans, Jr., Curator

KenT V. FLANNERY, Associate Curator

Rosert M. Laucu., Associate Curator

Gorpon D. Grsson, Supervisor and Curator

EuGENE I. KNEz, Associate Curator

Gus W. VAn BEEK, Associate Curator

WiuriaM C. STURTEVANT, Supervisor and Curator

RicHARD B. Woopsury, Curator

Pau. H. Vooruis, Associate Curator

J. LAwrence ANGEL, Supervisor and Curator

Lucite E. St. Hoye, Associate Curator

WarreEN W. CALDWELL, Director

GeorcE H. Smit, Archeologist

RicHarp B. Jounston, Archeologist

LionEL A. Brown, Archeologist

Joun J. Horrman, Archeologist

WiiFrreD M. Hustep, Archeologist

Oscar L. MALtory, Archeologist
STAFF 503

Botany WiuaM L. StTern,! Chairman
Lyman B. Smirtu, Senior Botanist
Phanerogams Joun J. Wurpack, Supervisor and Curator

Dan H. Nicotson, Associate Curator
VELVA E. Rupp, Curator

STanwyn G. SHELTER, Associate Curator
WALLACE R. Ernst, Associate Curator

Ferns ConrapD V. Morton, Supervisor and Curator
Davin B. LELLINGER, Associate Curator
Grasses Tuomas R. SopEerstrom, Supervisor and As-
sociate Curator
Cryptogams Mason E. Hate, Jr., Supervisor and Curator
Haro.ip E. Rosinson, Associate Curator
Plant Anatomy Wiiu1aM L. STERN,” Acting Supervisor

RicHaArp H. Eype, Associate Curator
Epwarp S. AYENSsU, Associate Curator

Fungi * CHESTER R. BENJAMIN, Research Associate
Joun A. STEVENSON, Research Associate
Francis A. UECKER, Research Associate
Joun L. CunnincHaM, Research Associate
Pau Lewis LENTZ, Research Associate
Marte L. Farr, Research Associate
Kent H. McKnicurt, Research Associate
L. R. Batra, Research Associate

Entomology Kar V. KromsBEIN, Chairman
J. F. Gates Ciarke, Senior Entomologist
Neuropteroids OLIverR S. Fiint, JR., Supervisor and Curator
Lepidoptera W. DonaLp DuckwortH, Supervisor and As-

sociate Curator
Dona.p R. Davis, Associate Curator
Wi.uraM D. Fretp, Associate Curator

Coleoptera Paut J. SPANGLER, Supervisor and Associate
Curator
Oscar L. CARTWRIGHT, Curator
Hemiptera RIcHARD C. FROESCHNER, Supervisor and As-

sociate Curator
GERALD I. Stace Assistant Curator
Myriapoda and Arachnida Ravpu E. CRABILL, JR., Supervisor and Curator
Invertebrate Zoology RAYMOND B. Manninc, Chairman

FENNER A. CHACE, JR., Senior Zoologist
Horton H. Hosss, Jr., Senior Zoologist
Hara.p A. REHDER, Senior Zoologist

JosepH C. Britton, Assistant Curator

1 Resigned, effective July 1, 1967; replaced by Mason Hale as Acting Chairman.

* Replaced by Richard Eyde, effective July 1, 1967.

3 National Fungus Collections are curated by U.S. Department of Agriculture
staff.
504 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967—-APPENDIX 7

Crustacea

Echinoderms

Worms

Mollusks

Mineral Sciences
Meteorites

Mineralogy
Petrology
Paleobiology

Invertebrate Paleontology

Vertebrate Paleontology

Tuomas E. Bowman, Supervisor and Curator

J. Laurens BARNARD, Curator

Lours S. KorNIcKER, Curator

RoceEr F. Cressey, Associate Curator

Davip L. Pawson, Supervisor and Associate
Curator

Kaus RUEZTLER, Associate Curator

MEREDITH L. Jones, Supervisor and Associate
Curator

Marian H. PetTisone, Curator

W. Duane Hope, Associate Curator

Mary E. Rice, Associate Curator

JosEpH RosEWATER, Supervisor and Associate
Curator

JoserH P. E. Morrison, Associate Curator

CLybeE F. E. Roper, Associate Curator

GeorcE S. Switzer, Chairman

Kurt FREDRIKSSON, Supervisor and Curator

Roy S. Ciarke, Associate Curator

Brian H. Mason, Curator

Rosert F. FupAat, Geochemist

EUGENE JAROSEWICH,! Chemist

Paut E. DesauTets, Supervisor and Associate
Curator

Wiiu1AM G. Me son, Supervisor and Associate
Curator

PorTER M. Krer,! Chairman

G. ARTHUR Cooper, Senior Paleobiologist

PorTER M. Kier, Supervisor and Curator

RICHARD S. BOARDMAN, Curator

RICHARD CIFELLI, Associate Curator

ALAN H. CHEETHAM, Associate Curator

ERLE G. KauFFrMan, Associate Curator

MartTIn A. Buzas, Associate Curator

RicHARD M. Benson, Curator

Tuomas R. WALLER, Associate Curator

RicHarp A. Rosison, Associate Curator

KENNETH M. Towe, Staff Specialist (Electron
Microscopy)

C. Lewis Gazin, Supervisor and Curator

Davin H. Dunk tg, Associate Curator

Nicnotas Horton III, Associate Curator

Crayton E. Ray, Associate Curator

1 Appointment effective July 1, 1967.
STAFF 505

Paleobotany Francis M. HueBeEr, Supervisor and Associate
Curator
WALTER H. Apey, Associate Curator
Sedimentology Jack W. Pierce, Supervisor and Associate
Curator

M. GrRanT Gross, Associate Curator
DANIEL J. STANLEY, Associate Curator
Vertebrate Zoology Puitip S. HuMpuHRey, Chairman
LEONARD P. ScHuLtTz, Senior Zoologist
Davip H. Jounson, Senior Zoologist
Fishes Ernest A. LACHNER, Supervisor and Curator
Victor G. SPRINGER, Curator
STANLEY H. WEITzmMan, Associate Curator
Rosert H. Grsss, JR., Associate Curator
Wi1Lu1AM R. Taytor, Associate Curator
Reptiles and Amphibians JAmeES A. PETERS, Supervisor and Curator
Doris M. Cocnran, Curator
Birds GerorcE W. Watson, Supervisor and Curator
RicHarp L. Zust, Associate Curator
Paut Sup, Associate Curator
Mammals CuaARLEs O. HANDLEY, Supervisor and Curator
Henry W. SETZER, Associate Curator

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK

Director T. H. REeep
Assistant Director Joun Perry
Office of the Director Nets WERNER III, Administrative Officer

Joun EtsENnBERG, Resident Scientist

Donatp R. DiretLein, Manager of the Animal
Department

CLInTon W. Gray, Veterinarian

Marian P. McCrane, Zoologist

Associates (Honorary) Hetmut K. Buecuner (Ecology.) S. Ditton
Riptey (Ornithology), Lee M. Tarsot
(Ecology).

SMITHSONIAN TROPICAL RESEARCH INSTITUTE

Director Martin H. MoyniHAN

Biologists Ropert L. Dresster, A. STANLEY RAND,
MicHaeEL H. Rosinson, IRA RusinorF, NEAL
G. SMITH
506 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967—APPENDIX 7

RADIATION BIOLOGY LABORATORY

Director
Assistant Director
Biochemists

Biologist
Cytogeneticist
Geochemist
Physicist

Plant Physiologists

Electronic Engineer
Instrument Engineering
Technician

WituiaM H. Kien

WALTER A. SHROPSHIRE, JR.

Davin L. Corrett, Maurice M. MaArcu_ies,
VICENTE JULIO MeEpINA, FRANCESCO PARENTI,
RosBertT L. WEINTRAUB

ELISABETH GANTT

Tre-Hstu Ma

AusTIN Lone

BERNARD GOLDBERG

Victor B. Etstap, BERNARD NEBEL, LEONARD
PRICE

Junius H. HARRISON

DaRNEL G. TALBERT

ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY

Director

Assistant Director (Science)

Assistant Director
(Management)

Screntific Staff

FrepD L. WHIPPLE
CuHaRLEs A. LUNDQUIST
Car Ton W. TILLINGHAST

EuceneE H. Averett, PrasHu BHATNAGAR,
NATHANIEL P. CARLETON, Mattuias F. Co-
MERFORD, ALLAN F. Cook, RoBert J. DAvis,
James C. DEFELICE, Giovanni G. Fazio,
Epwarp L. FIREMAN, GIUSEPPE ForTI, FRED
A. FRANKLIN, MANFRED P. FRIEDMAN, EDWARD
M. GAPoscHKIN, ANTANAS GIRNIUs, Mario D.
Grossi, SALAH E. Hamip, GERALD S. HAWKINS,
Henry F. HELMKEN, Pau, W. Hopce, Luic1
G. JAccuta, WOLFGANG KALKOFEN, BisHuN N.
KHARE, WALTER J. KOHNLEIN, BARBARA
KoLaczEk, Myron Lecar, ANTHONY R. LEE,
CaRLTON G. LeuHR, A. Epwarp LILLEy,
LEONARD A. MAgsTRE, BRIAN G. MARSDEN,
UrsuLa B. Marvin, Rospert H. McCorkeE Lt,
RicHARD E. McCrosky, DonaLp H. MENZEL,
Henri E. Miter, Car S. Nitsson, ROBERT
W. Noyes, Costas Papa.iotios, Creciiia H.
PAYNE-GAPOSHKIN, Doucias T. PITMAN,
James B. Pottack, ANNETTE G. Posen, Max
RoeMER, GeorGcE B. Rysicki, CARL SAGAN,
WINFIELD W. SALIsBURY, Mario R. SCHAFFNER,
ASHOK SHARMA, JACK W. SLOWEY, LEONARD
H. Sotomon, RicuarpD B. SoOUTHWORTH,
STEPHEN E. Strom, DaAvip TILLEs, SACHIKO
TsuruTA, CHARLES A. WHITNEY, JOHN A.
Consultants

Fellows

Central Bureau for Satellite
Geodesy

Central Bureau for Astro-
nomical Telegrams

STAFF 507

Woop, FrRAncEs W. WRIGHT, JAMES P. WRIGHT,
W1Lu1aM A. DEUTSCHMAN, GEORGE H. MEGRUE,
CHENG-YUAN SHAO

LEON COHEN, GIUSEPPE COLOMBO, VICHITRA
Gaur, GusTAv KIsTNER, YOSHIHIDE Kozat,
RopertT C. LuMATAINEN, Davip Parkin,
GeorGE VEIs, DALE F. Dickinson, AVRAM HAYLI

CHARLES J. BARTLETT, THORNTON L. PAGE,
ALAN M. TitLe, RicHARD WaATTSON, ‘TREVOR
C. WEEKES

Jan Rotrr, Executive Director

Owen J. GIncERICH, Director

MUSEUM OF HISTORY AND TECHNOLOGY

Director

Assistant Director
Administrative Officers
Science and Technology

Physical Sciences

Mechanical and Civil
Engineering

Electricity
Transportation

Medical Sciences

Arts and Manufactures
Manufactures and Heavy
Industries
Agriculture and Forest
Products

Rosert P. MULTHAUF

Sitvio A. BEDINI

VirGIniA BEETs, ROBERT G. TILLOTSON

WALTER F. Cannon, Chairman

Howarp I. CHAPELLE, Senior Historian

WALTER F. Cannon, Acting Curator; in charge
of Sections of Astronomy, Chemistry, Mete-
orology, and Physics

Ura C. Merzpacu, Associate Curator, Sec-
tions of Mathematics and Antique Instru-
ments

Rospert M. Voce, Supervisor and Curator;
Sections of Heavy Machinery and Civil
Engineering

Epwin A. Battison, Associate Curator; Sec-
tions of Light Machinery and Horology

Monte A. CALVERT, Associate Curator, Section
of Tools

BERNARD S. Finn, Supervisor and Curator

Joun H. Wuire, Jr., Supervisor and Curator

ME vin H. Jackson, Associate Curator, Section
of Marine Transportation

Sami K. HaMARNEH, Supervisor and Curator; in
charge of Sections of Medical and Dental
History and Pharmaceutical History and
Health

Puitie W. BisHop, Chairman

Puitip W. BisHop, Acting Curator

Joun N. Horrman, Associate Curator

Joun T. ScHLEBECKER, Supervisor and Curator
508 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967—APPENDIX 7

Textiles

Ceramics and Glass
Graphic Arts

Civil History
Political History

Cultural History

Musical Instruments

Philately and Postal
History

Numismatics

Growth of the United
States
Armed Forces History
Military History

Naval History

American Studies

Mrs. Grace Rocers Cooper, Supervisor and
Curator

Rira J. ApRosko, Associate Curator

Paut V. GARDNER, Supervisor and Curator

J. JEFFERSON MILLER II, Associate Curator

EuGENE Ostrorr, Supervisor and Curator

PETER Morse, Associate Curator

RicHARD H. How.anp, Chairman

KeirH E. MELpEr, Supervisor and Associate
Curator

Mrs. MarGarReEtT B. Kiaptuor, Associate Curator

Mrs. ANNE W. Murray, Associate Curator

HERBERT R. Co tins, Assistant Curator

Mrs. CLaupiA B. KIpweELt, Assistant Curator

C. Matcotm Watkins, Supervisor and Curator

RIcHARD E. AHLBORN, Associate Curator

Ropris C. Rotu, Associate Curator

Joun T. FEsPERMAN, JR., Supervisor and Asso-
ciate Curator

Mrs. CyntuiA A. Hoover, Associate Curator

James M. WeEAveER, Concert Director

Cart H. ScHEELE, Supervisor and Associate
Curator

REIDAR Norsy, Assistant Curator

VLADIMIR CLAIN-STEFANELLI, Supervisor and
Curator

Mrs. ExtvirRA CLAIN-STEFANELLI, Associate
Curator

PETER C. WELSH, Supervisor and Curator

ANN CasTRODALE GOLovin, Assistant Curator

MENDEL L. PETERSON, Chairman

Epcar M. Howe 1, Supervisor and Curator

Crappock R. Goins, JR., Associate Curator

Puitip K. LuNDEBERG, Supervisor and Curator

Epwarp L. Tow e, Associate Curator

Witcoms E. WaAsHBuURN, Chairman

NATIONAL AIR AND SPACE MUSEUM

Director

Assistant Director (Astro-
nautics)

Assistant Director (Education
and Information)

Assistant Director

(Exhibits)

S. PAuL JOHNSTON
FREDERICK C. Durant III

PAuL E. GARBER

James A. MAHONEY
Aircraft

Aircraft Propulsion

Advisory Board
Chairman (ex-officio)
Members

STAFF 509

Louis C. Casey, Curator in Charge
Rosert B. Meyer, Curator in Charge

S. Ditton RIPLEY
Major General Rotten H. Anruis, USAF,

Vice Admiral THomas F. Conno.tity, USN,
Brigadier General Hat C. Pattison, USA,
Major General KeirH B. McCurcuHeon,
USMC, Rear Admiral RopErick Y. EDwarps,
USCG, JuLtiAN ScHEER, JosEPpH D. Bratt,
GrRovER C. LoEninc, Colonel JoHn H. GLEnn,
Jr., USMC (Ret.), James P. Wi_mor

NATIONAL ARMED FORCES MUSEUM ADVISORY BOARD

Director

Assistant Director

Museum Spectalist

Advisory Board
Members

Ex Officio

Col. Joun H. MacRuper III

James S. Hutcuins

Col. Ropert M. CALLAND

Joun Nicuoras Brown, Chairman

CHIEF JUSTICE OF THE UNITED STATES, SECRE-

TARY OF ARMY, SECRETARY OF Navy, SECRE-
TARY OF AiR Force, Davin LLoyp KREEGER,
HENRY BRADFORD WASHBURN, JR., WILLIAM

H. Perkins, JR., JAMES H. CAssELt, JR.
SECRETARY OF DEFENSE, SECRETARY OF THE
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

FREER GALLERY OF ART

Director

Assistant Director

Associate Curator (Chinese
Art)

Technical Laboratory

Joun A. Pore

Haro_p P. STERN
WILLIAM TROUSDALE

RUTHERFORD J. GETTENS, Head
W. T. Cuase, Assistant Curator

NATIONAL COLLECTION OF FINE ARTS

Director
Acting Assistant for Special
Services
Registrar
Librarian
Conservator
Administrative Officers

Davin W. Scortr

JANE Morse

Mrs. MarjoriE S. ZAPRUDER

WILLIAM B. WALKER

Cuar-es H. O In

Harry W. ZICHTERMAN, Mrs. Louise W.
ROBINSON
510 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967—-APPENDIX 7

Department of Painting and
Sculpture

Department of Prints and
Drawings
Department of Contemporary

Art
Department of Exhibits

International Art Program

Smithsonian Art Commission

Members

Members Emeritus

RicHarp P. WunpDER, Curator

WILLIAM H. TRUETTNER, Assistant Curator

DonaAtp R. McCLeELLanp, Associate Curator for
Lending Program

Jacos KaInen, Curator

Mrs. ADELYN D. BreeEskin, Acting Curator

STEFAN P. Mounsinc, Special Consultant

Harry Lowe, Curator

ABIGAIL V. Bootu, Assistant

Lots A. Bincuam, Chief

MarGaret P. CocswELL, Deputy Chief

WILL1AM M. Dunn, Exhibits Officer

Epcar P. RIcHARDsON, Chairman

GiLmor_e D. CLARKE, Vice Chairman

S. Ditton Rirtey, Secretary

LEONARD BaAsKIN, PAGE Cross, Davin E. FINLEy,
Lioyp GoopricH, WALKER HANcockK, BART-
LETT H. Hayes, JR., WiILMARTH S. Lewis,
Henry P. McILHenny, PAut MELLon, OGDEN
M. PLEIssNER, CHARLES H. SAwyeER, STOW
WENGENROTH, ANDREW WYETH

LEONARD CARMICHAEL, ALEXANDER WETMORE

NATIONAL PORTRAIT GALLERY

Director
Registrar
Administrative Officer
Exhibits Curator
Librarian
Conservator

Historian

Curator

Assistant Historian

Assistants

National Portrait Gallery
Commission

Ex Officio

CHARLES NAGEL

THomas J. GIRARD

JosepH A. YAKAITIS

RippDIcK VANN

WILLIAM B. WALKER

CHARLES H. OLIN

DANIEL J. REED

RosBert G. STEWART

Mrs. VirciniA PurDY

Mrs. GENEVIEVE A. KENNEDY, MONROE FABIAN,
Lewis McInnis

Joun NicHotas Brown, Chairman, CATHERINE
DRINKER BoweEN, JULIAN P. Boyp, LEwis
DescHLER, Davin E. Finutey, Epcar P.
RICHARDSON, WILMARTH S. Lewis, RICHARD
H. Suryock, Col. FRepEerick P. Topp

CHIEF JUSTICE OF THE UNITED STATES

SECRETARY, SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Director, NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART
STAFF 511

NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART

Trustees

President

Vice President
Secretary- Treasurer
Director
Administrator
General Counsel
Chief Curator
Assistant Director

EARL WarRrEN, Chief Justice of the United States,
Chairman

DEAN Rusk, Secretary of State

Henry H. Fow er, Secretary of the Treasury

S. Ditton Riptey, Secretary of the Smithsonian
Institution

Paut MELiton, JoHN Hay Wuitney, LEssING
J. Ros—eNwatp, FRANKLIN D. Murpny,
STODDARD M. STEVENS

PauL MELLON

Joun Hay WHITNEY

ERNEST R. FEIDLER

JouN WALKER

E. JAMEs ADAMS

ERNEST R. FEIDLER

Perry B. Corr

-J. CARTER BROowN

JOHN F. KENNEDY CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS

Chairman

Officers

RocErR L. STEVENS

RosBert O. ANDERSON, Vice Chairman

Sot M. Linowitz, Vice Chairman

RALPH E. BECKER, General Counsel

Danie. W. BELL, Treasurer

K. LeMoyne Bitiincs, Secretary

Puitie J. Mutuin, Assistant Secretary and
Administrative Officer

HERBERT D. Lawson, Assistant Treasurer

KENNETH BiRGFELD, Assistant Treasurer

Pau J. Bisset, Assistant Treasurer

JOSEPH H. HIRSHHORN MUSEUM AND SCULPTURE

Director

GARDEN

ABRAM LERNER

UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM

Director

Administrative Officer
Registrar
Office of Exhibits

FRANK A. TAYLOR

Lioyp E. HERMAN

HELENA M. WEIss

Joun E. Ancuim, Chief

BENJAMIN LAwLEss, Assistant Chief
James H. Jones, Administrative Officer
4 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967—-APPENDIX 7

Natural History
Laboratory

History and Technology
Laboratory
Exhibits Labels Editor
Conservation Analytical
Laboratory
Traveling Exhibition Service
Registrar
Exhibits Coordinators

Joun E. Ancuim, Chief

A. GILBERT WRIGHT, Assistant Chief

FRANK NELMs, Production Supervisor

BENJAMIN W. LAw tess, Chief

WiLu1AM M. Crark, JR., Production Supervisor

GEORGE WEINER

Rosert M. Orcan, Chief

Mrs. JACQUELINE S. OLIN, Chemist

Mrs. DorotHy VAN ARSDALE, Chief

Mrs. EILEEN ROSE

Frances P. SmytH, Mrs. Erika PAssANTINO,
BarsBouRA C. FLues, Mrs. JEAN ‘TAYLOR,
Ho.iy TEASDALE, RENATO DANESE

SCIENCE INFORMATION EXCHANGE

Director
Deputy Director
Assoctate Directors

Executive Officer

Monroe E. FREEMAN

Davin F. HERsEY

Wixuis R. Foster, Life Sciences

FRANK J. Kreysa, Physical Sciences

MartTIN SNYDERMAN, Automatic Data Processing
V. P. VERFUERTH

INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGE SERVICE

Chief

J. A. CoLiins
Honorary Staff

Smithsonian Honorary Fellows, Research Associates,
Collaborators, and Emeritus Members

Secretaries Emeritus

Office of the Secretary

Anthropology

Botany

Entomology

CHARLES G. ABBOT
LEONARD CARMICHAEL
ALEXANDER WETMORE
Joun A. GRAF

NATURAL SCIENCES
W. MontacuE Coss (Physical Anthropology),

Henry B. Cotuins (Archeology), Marcus S.
GoLpsTEIN (Physical Anthropology), Sister
Inez Hircer (Ethnology), C. G. HoLianp
(Archeology), Nem M. Jupp (Archeology),
Oca Linares DE Sapir (Archeology), BetTy
J. Meccers (Archeology), Vicror A. NuNEz
Recueiro (Archeology), MATTHEW W. STIRL-
1nG (Archeology), Doucias Taytor (Ethnol-
ogy), WiLu1AM J. Tosin (Physical Anthropol-
ogy), THEopoRE A. WERTIME (Archeology),
NaTHALIE F. S. Woopsury (Archeology)

ANDREW W. ARCHER (Flowering Plants), PAuL S.

ConceR (Diatomaceae), José CUATRECASAS
(Flora of Tropical South America), JAmMEs A.
Duke (Flora of Panama), Witt1aM H. HaTHE-
way (Flora of Central America), FREDERICK
J. Hermann (North American Flora; Carex),
Expert L. Litre, Jr. (Dendrology), FLoyp
A. McC.ure (Bamboos), Kittie F. PARKER
(Compositae), Ecpert H. WALKER (Myrsin-
aceae, Eastern Asian Floras)

WILu1AM H. ANDERSON (Coleoptera), Mrs. Doris

H. Brake (Coleoptera), FRANKLIN S. BLANTON
(Diptera), FRANK L. CAMPBELL (Insect Physi-
ology), K. C. Emerson (Mallophaga), FRANK
M. Hutt (Diptera), Witu1am L. JELLISON
(Siphonaptera, Anoplura), Harotp F. Loomis
(Myriapoda), Cart F. W. Muesespeck (Hy-
menoptera), THomas E. Snyper (Isoptera),
Rosert Travus (Siphonaptera)

513
514

Invertebrate Zoology

Mineral Sciences

Paleobiology

Vertebrate Zoology

SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1967—-APPENDIX 7

WitLtarp W. Becktunp (Helminthology), J.

Bruce Brepin (Biology), IsABeEL C. CANET
(Crustacea), MaysetteE H. Cnirwoop
(Worms), AttsA M. Crark (Marine Inverte-
brates), ELISABETH DEICHMANN (Echinoderms),
Roman Kenk (Worms), Watpo L. ScuMITT
(Marine Invertebrates), FRANK R. SCHWENGEL
(Mollusks), GitperT L. Voss (Mollusks),
Mrs. Mitprep S. WiLson (Copepod Crustacea)

Epwarp P. HENDERSON (Meteorites), JoHN B.

Jaco (Mineralogy), GuNNAR KuLLERUD (Mete-
orites), RossER Reeves (Mineralogy), Harry
Winston (Mineralogy)

J. Tuomas Durtro (Invertebrate Paleontology),

REMINGTON KELLOGG (Vertebrate Paleontol-
ogy), AxeL A. Oxsson (Invertebrate Paleontol-
ogy), Franco RaseTT1 (Invertebrate Paleon-
tology), FreDERIc R. Stecei (Sedimentology),
WENDELL P. Wooprinc (Invertebrate Paleon-
tology)

Joun W. Avpricu (Birds), Ottver L. AusTIN

(Birds), RicHarD C. Banks (Birds), James E.
BOuLKE (Fishes), C. B. G. CAMPBELL (Mam-
mals), LEONARD CARMICHAEL (Psychology,
Animal Behavior), DANtEL M. Couen (Fishes),
Bruce B. Co.uetre (Fishes), HERBERT G.
Deicnan (Birds), Ropert W. Ficken (Birds),
HERBERT FRIEDMANN (Birds), ARTHUR M.
GREENHALL (Mammals), JAck P. HAILMAN
(Birds), E. V. KomMAREK (Mammals), Roxie C.
LAYBOURNE (Birds), RicHARD H. MANVILLE
(Mammals), J. A. J. MrrsTeR (Mammals),
EpGARDO Monpbo.ri (Mammals), Russet. E.
MumrorpD (Mammals), MicHaEL PALMIERI
(Birds), Dioscoro S. Razor (Birds), FRANK J.
ScHwarRTz (Fishes), ALEXANDER WETMORE
(Birds) JouHn G. Wituiams (Birds), Davin B.
Wincate (Birds)
National XKoological Park

STAFF RS

JeAN Detacour, J. LEAR GRIMMER, SUSANNE
RipLey, CONSTANCE WARNER

Smithsonian Tropical Research CHARLES F. BENNETT, JR., JOHN EISENBERG,

Institute

Science and Technology
Arts and Manufactures
Civil History

Armed Forces History

National Air and Space
Museum

Freer Gallery of Art

Smithsonian Institution Press

RosBert H. MacArtuur, Ernst Mayr, GILEs
W. Meap, Patricio SANCHEZ, W. JOHN SmITH,
C. C. Soper, PAULO VANZOLINI, MARTIN
YOUNG

HISTORY AND ART

DEREK J. DE SOLLA PRICE

Hans Syz (Ceramics)

Mrs. ARTHUR M. GREENWOOD (Cultural History),
ELMER C. HErRBER (History), Ivor Noi, Hume
(Cultural History), Frep W. McKay (Numis-
matics), Mrs. EMery May Norwes (Numis-
matics), R. Henry Norwes (Numismatics),
Mrs. JOAN Pgarson Watkins (Cultural
History)

WILLIAM REA FuRLONG, FREDERIC C. LANE

FREDERICK C. CRAWFORD, JAMES H. DooLiTTLE,
Harry F. GUGGENHEIM, ALFRED V. VERVILLE

RICHARD EpwArRps, OLEG GRABAR

Pau, H. O&HSER

U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE : 1968 O - 275-528
a a Se ee ee
For sale by the Superintendent of Documents, U.S. Government Printing Office
Washington, D.C. 20402 - Price $1.75 (paper cover)
t

Pa

ata, OSA inal, Dated! & Seen

Chas JCC Wukela il Meare ee. sag

eg 1 ae a “

a0

yet Re nig SAN Cay Saris ’
bi 6 orn a 4 = a 7 yee
ar pCa! RP ea ce HT peed
BiWisie> CET ahh Ga wen y

eas 7 j aur Has
edu noe Ae hd 5 Ae I

vind. 7
Ain, te) So ae | Sid MARA a

TAA, 3 edt, |. cpete: b, <a ee x

wemieel) (Editor toate

teey st 1 be Ve
woe ~
Dyin A
os
f cm |
’
en
: 4
i: ‘ >
an L \
i
eS wa ees a ae |
a
o*
—- ae
t F *,

re UO GRIN Dee
traineeret? 22) opel lo eto ioiee @&
Cratrom taegne) 27. SF Whe WOME yal itp cia?

y at
re)
a | ., uf ‘ ;
ay ey es Vi Bi ‘ ; > ;
i i ;

ri ms

Da ee a

sit) ae
Lv aon

i
2
{
z
"
it ay
oy : fa We. Sa iy
ae ‘ [
ay ve
{ in ae ;
| aah ; ; ee
Ls ; as
“ies ed pe a
PAO ak | Ae ey ace Pe a)
i APY

‘
Wy

TRS hae
OAS Day iy

Ny
Tiki
Wie
ay SS

os

A
hi on

ud 4 if ,
Peau ha Ri MATS
ND ¥) be ip
thy
wie
aay

iV us

eur
my

tT iy Pi

Mabry
| Ny a
| Ua |

De a |

We rahe OF ii :
ruil ave
ay ke ' if (

- nN -
'
ny
j
a } )
*
1
] We
aks
4 .?
y
’
uae
\ ‘
aves
'
| at
ie
"] hs
Y
Me
h
UW
i
j
fe
fi
} f
i
‘ } :
7
'
’
WN ,
oy
" .
‘
1,
¢
ebieuinded Bg. FoF SP Fut ns ee ee ane gle ae athe ee

Se Mette ng ae te

eh
eer
Pith 5th tid Pa

Peels Ce Se on ht Sin old
sree ie Beene

Faey AR ESS

de bh tance ts ae

he ob nce Oe
eee eee

ha amd

epee SKe

Tere er eR

sae Pee eS
meee: eee

ng APTI TD &

ine weed

aie
ey eee

Rae casar Sey CRE EE BN OE ES

aaah a snemctataddn a
fytinteme No yr er Ue

ee weiags wre lane
Fe ee Ee
ie oe ae yas

Ye Sree) ery

CASS FF NS een
Se i ele ad
we ear

oe te arch enamel. Maia ot heck Make

Sy Se eees weal

wes)

a kee

* | ad

et had ’
LER POT AWE IS SS
FN BRIE OF BEI EI
ha ae im oe erp %

He seer

i te ep epee NO eT EICY E e:

Seegeacese se -
Ses eet ek sae Ne aed
SSF

Ben os
eta F, re Fn

pss SNe tiacs ”

Cane
eps Cra ene =e

2 Soe Kae
ne a oe 4
ay Dg ae
a “al auf afd &
oe % { f 5
* 4 oe
tar és a

Ber es
7 “es: = , ‘-. - & Ge ;
5 ; %
oy Gad 4 t i €
_ 7 og”. aa, tek nh ae Sy FO an ee
4 gtr = ees oat ary
; ‘Be. a 3 aa “ms
; A a Va. 4 Bo 4 alge i i "
3 i A a a Sal ; Ut eRe
4 - or aa eo Saat age
% e a
k g f ,
> . 5 A Pal
re Bis ws 7 *
/ j $ 4
i ae

dee ', , 5 Py
“ Pi cs rt “i ri < ‘<
A vepvus

" Pie say ste “
(‘x cate ve as

an

Pyerbeeeneyn
; a 4 fi viet ae. BA me: ot u RN
. ‘ ae? a PP a a OG e- ae *s

q x “4
ae pent ad a a Y
ae ae

Pe ee
i 1 He
x q a ie t > :
a. et

~ PR eS ge
oe at "cage
M ae ‘ 4
a pk ee es Mee

eke habeas
AAA a « ie ei ss
a sa i

21 ini ea +g i] aK Cie! a’
vee etc

if
NORE

<}

*,

we eae w.

Be Eq a ie ‘= 3S =
