i t } ; | } ]
7 ¥ 1 % - ,
; } ¥ \ } :
; ‘ R
} . > } : Je
, y ; } h } oY)
; } ; : ; 4 >
y \ | 1 } \ ’ \ : a
} } } } } } a
} } | | t od
} } } } ) } } ;
j ) 7 j } !
) } } } } )
| ) } ) }
] } ) } ]
l ] } } }
} ) J } } ) } ) *
> } ) | i ) !

OREGON -

RULE —
£0.

Phish

stale

iy Aine

o
ifn iniate
oF 4h
eb
thon
ons TH

JN

ee Nba!

Ravi iat state
Uyiiiseanea

Hien
Shane aa
nu

AVR
\ pinay?
nea BARS

Vinee

aati ae

pach
Poy

Wate
hte

remand
ny

infin a) By

ati

Net

Puntos

AVAL
hy Caveat a at
Aces ea

Paar

Sf eatethen

Nar ae
Hieceriaia
3 eh

a

AEG)
pets

sia

EOE

5 ahs

i sige
PPA aah ops
Pat) aa
atts

me
aa

yal
PAs Ae Rita oe

nit

As i
Abe

Site bay

avi)

Nearer y. rf is

Waa
Wee eae

aD
tv ay wh EY
Ba

24

at?

of Pty td 02a Wl Mey

iM in, clapton
wit

js A a

aN
earee rr ny

Wig Cal ath lh ontasaosmcaee
ae attain tae

st aii tet
*

Patiala

te sett

Tesaresniocoe

aioe mee

NVA MAAS fon S ghee’
ae Boua:

ie Dest regai ioe

4 as
the

San aera.
Jie Pitias gt
AALS
Bey
a Aarates
Vite ath TOA tA
Ian nse dst

ot, Cer ee

saa reese eater

Serer a Marea. Sects
nurs trata

Sse an

a

Angactrate
fiat
Agito

Tigi ries:
vi Meant

ee dece,
am oe

tS ae
oes

acm ai bons
as ad oe es
wanisteiarnieratach eengts
feb e brome eon +
08 TBE nbane aan pacnsig spent gh
Trghiaesagett lane queers iemuashe

rash o) ie

saat rtaeas wrhst Fs Uleinsata tere kes a ecu. deemed ms

Pears

AMecrcals Meaty
Hae t§ Flat

i
ere
Lheaatea tenet ts

Aibee as mere!
SBN Nant Vance

AUER Oak feel
ererearers

FUN it ansaid
Meare cos vanes),
Aege

Beir)
PSO tAr iad

SEE
a peskaey

ue

AUTH Cok
rf ies

wares

ra
para)
Gens
sf
Bare

ey
Sine
ee Sie

aa yas,

i Risseesene
a pei site Si) Brats

Sarit at pas

ed
etitareapspeone sai
Ween

eS
USE
eraser}
bie. SEF
std

uneeene

palyeapacerse
Dae band

SSG
*

oe e See oy
is fe

ue Scns

4; Reteees

a
Bees

uy RNS
eos :

: me
Lae

arn

Ta an bd me a at bahe eek le Mae i nua ofh

ots ae
Seana a
lap por eae oe
meth esters its
Lae

mot avmcsiz baer.
ins ahh SIA ir teaing
Srerine

Se eas
= pe

erie
thnae pcan eee

So a:
eae
Scere ete

Baw wtitieeieed

tend grerelcisret Sasroree
aoe nsenn scraen etre Gree ae
Ty (ua nace tae neo

; ashe ae

erates
a eo

Se
we 9 = oS 5 2s 5
a } z ad = +
UTION_ NOILNLILSNI NVINOSHLINS S3IYVUSIT LIBRARIES > oMITHSONIAN _
& R 2 i =
wa & o 9° o = ow
a 5 2 5 / \ 2 =e 2
3} E >’ = }= Jey cal
yy & aa = ies / 2
UGITLLIBRARIES, SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION |, > NVINOSHLINS,
< = Gams = Xs . = < KI =
yy 2 = WY, a Zz AWE Ss
oO: = Ti ro) ha) oe
G 3 eX 8 2 1S
= = y > £ = Lab s/ =
a ee z : nee
UTION _NWINOSHLINS = pM ITHSONIAN _
YT) z ss en 2 us 4
BD 2 5 OR = vat fy°S
TE )2 SO Je Ieee ¢
eS © S 74 r= ‘ rs} LON DC. f oO Uep 5
a) 2 2 : z
usll LIBRARIES NOILALILSNI NVINOSHLIWS
= FA So =m.” 5
Ur 0 oO Ss KASTUTUES =
BS iS 15 AM) 2 Nye 5
6 = ™ } f= = esl = Nee, ‘N t=
(s) / — I — “SP, oh } Pos Ss bad
RY m Pye 5 (EBS a KS 5
w z 2 = PY oe z
JTION NOILALILSNI LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN
a) z (tear a cee
= =: = = Sim =
= (fpr RVR) =
61 £2: ig Nag SN z 33) 2
SS s GF, i y & BS z Xs Abo =
\ Be Ss Linas = aN, , = WAS =
3 =z w 34
UGIT_ LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN _ NOFLALILSNI_ NVINOSHLINS
Y\ = Pa Ja | \ = = Pe
co} = _—< i =} < } = . <
ES a S j m= \ 1S WNe
sy o a” o oN So Wy a
z a z = aes z oe ol
UTION NOILNLILSNI NVINOSHLINS LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN
<= Cae ee =
a) vet =) eo
=} & > ke | | > } b= ¥ >
yy jae i= \ pa / - 2
cy g nm g At és mn ——— 2 i
fugit LIBRARIES epSMITHSONIAN— IN TITUTION  NOILALILSNI_ NVINOSHLINS $
ee: ‘ (i) = ar tf?)
Gs Ss 32 AG Z NG = <t Ko, ES
oy sgr 7 Gime : 2 (Am 5
, wo * » | @ w 77) } wo
: oe
E 2 ] = 2 = ] 2
5 > >
aaa renee eman SLO anes eee PC RN RN & ee PAL ee mes

S3luwy

“INST
q

~ INSTITUTIO

%,
@,

yg
%G

NOI
I

NO!L

NOI

L

N NVINOSHLINS

we)

NOILNLILSNI S3t¥vugit_ LIBRARIES SMITHSONI

JIBvysit

INSTITUTION
INSTITUTION

TLIBR NOILNLILSNI NWINOSHLI

N

SMITHSONIA
MITHSONIAN

Ss

N NOILALI LIBRARIES SMITHSONI

1ES

Qs

R

NOILNLILSNI

11 LIBRARIES
T LIBRA

NVINOSHLI

U

NSTITUTION
aiuvadi

Lf

Sa3iuvug

NWINOSHAIIN SMITHSON!

s’saiuvug

NOILALILSNI S, S3ISVESIT_ LIBRARIES

SMITHSONIAN

a
2

NVINOSHLIIN

NOLLALILSNI

| NYINOSHLINS S$

SMITHSON NVINOSHLI

4SNI

{

LIBRARIES
NOILMLILSN

SNI NVINOSHLIWS

KE
LN

\

LIBRARIES SMITHSON

4

. @
, 2D
Ps
r]

INSTITUTION

Las

RARIES

e&

3

INSTITUTION

at av !_ NYINOSHLI

Ss NOILALILSN

AN INSTITUTION NOILOL

MITHSONIAN

NVINOSHLINS SSIUVUEIT LIBRARIES

NVINOSHLINS S$

SMITHSON!

e

emammmaewmaeesoMenn 06 Fhe ee Oe rere te BCaEem

S

guage 6 esheets eae soem menaPmteae  GaeiFecIieAanie
= BS
On NES
0; >
NOS,

y s,
Cae a NOY
Sash

S31¥VYdiT_ LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN

\t KJ , Suzy 77,
<nanss> Ye

INSTITUTION NOILNLILSNI NVINOSHLIWS

2,
<

Saluvudi1_ LIB!

INSTITUTION NOLL
LIBR

ix

3

LIBR

S

LIBR

Se

NOLS
TLIBR
NOILS

ky

a

NVINOSHLIWS

4

“dye AN
WS

NVINOSHLINS S3luvudl
INSTITUTION NOILI

INSTITUTION
saluvuadl
Saiyvydsy

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILNLILSNI_ NVINOSHLIWS LIBRARIES, SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOIL

NVINOSHLINS S3iuvagit

=
2
=
p=]
=
=
o
z
7 z z z 2 ae g
J = = 2 ao z ar 4
5 (oe) e O z% O = fo) Ae
’ 77) Aw” n an ao ~~ eR ce ,
) =z % x . x oO oe a *SN 7iom @ } Yi
ae WS 5 A aS NW’
BS ee
NVINOSHLINS, SSIUWYGIT_LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN_INSTITUTION  NOILALILSNI_NVINOSHLINS SAaluVu ait LIB!
= 4 = a ~ 4 = 4
j 4 = a Lo [vad = o =
> , = c < in| < c <4 a
1 e 4 ce = o oa o 4
eo 3 co = co 3 os 3
3 a) 2 as = ay 4 4 =a
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILNLILSNI NVINOSHLINS S3IYVYSIT LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOId
, 5 z 3 : 3 5 3
5 > = >: 2 > -:xZAZ > 2
_ 2 = 2 = z = Gyy, » =
r «& m z m zh m z Wl m oxo z ~
= = ra) ee 2) at mia
NVINOSHLIWS LIBRARIES, SMITHSONIAN NOILNLILSNI NVINOSHLINS S3IYVY8IT_LIB:
= Z x. 2 2 g z z 2
2 = ty Z : Zz OS a z S z = o y ay 5 53 z= x
) Be Y Oo & Cas GO = re) Be Dé re) S
$Oge 2 WSO 8 2 g 2 GIS 2%
2G = z E 2 E 2 Gy =
: > i > = > = > g =
? 4 77) es .. ; = 77)
SMITHSONIAN. INSTITUTION NOILOLILSNI_ NVINOSHLINS S31¥VYSI7 LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN. INSTITUTION. NOI
) > ” = ae 2) ‘ = 7) S o
5 uw 2 t w = w uw
«0 on wes 2) n a
a4 = ce 2 Xz = e. = Pay
4 < a * x 4 . 4 Z
; S eo Sc War S =" a ce {
. “Ge 3S “war 5 } i 5 2 S = X
; z a z ¢ 3 = a
INVINOSHLINSS31YV4Y 917 _ LIBRARIES~ SMITHSONIAN” INSTITUTION -NOILNLILSNI— Saluvugiq_LiB
Ne z - 2 y Ss z = Ss =
; = Fs] 2 Lp = o = wo
3 a: 3 2 EHS 2 2 2
) = es) S le lf? = a Sc a
> = = 4 fer 2 = = - a
mow 2 m 2° °° of 2 m Y 2 m
— = — = n
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILNLILSNI_ NVINOSHUNS, SataVaaiT LIBRARIES, SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOI
= Z Z = &: = Z =
: zZ = 2 = My, = at z =
= ENS 25 = 2A7 P? E z = 2%
: a 2 a 2 7) 2 a S
,NVINOSHLINS SSIUVUGIT LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION _NVINOSHLINS ik
5; w Zz ws 2 i 7 us Z
= = = g = g - @
: S = oc = cc = cw a
4 a par] a S fod 5 foe S
) = 5 = 3 2 3 = 3
: a 2 <5 S 3 = 3 =z
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILNLILSNI NVINOSHLINS S3INVUEIT LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOIJ
a z c z c z e z
i = a 2 o 5 rr) =
s 5 = a 5 2 2 #4 2 2
2 a as Ps) = re) § Gs 3] =
m B = b = 5 Up = F
E 1 eel a a a 2 @ 3 Z
ZNVINOSHLINS, SSIYVUGIT_LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. NOILNLILSNI_NVINOSHLINS, SAINVuaIT_LIB
= 2 WW 5 26 5 z Be
= PIE 3 RS < “ re . Wt FE 3 S
ECH ARS 3 ECS 297? LY 2h
c om 5 < SMe GAGE
c SH, = Q xz N S Hy GG o Gigs, =

Smithsonian Year 1992
Supplement

Chronology and Appendixes

enh
Smithsonian Year 1992
Supplement

Chronology and Appendixes
Ve

Vi i
Nite ne

Contents

Chronology 5

Appendix 1. Members of Smithsonian Councils,
Boards, and Commissions, September 30,1992 33

Appendix 2. Visits to the Smithsonian Institution
Museums and Galleries in Fiscal Year 1992 42

Appendix 3. Academic, Research Training, and
Internship Appointments and Research Associates
in Fiscal Year 1992 43

Appendix 4. Publications of the Smithsonian
Institution Press in Fiscal Year 1992 84

Appendix 5. Publications of the Staff of the
Smithsonian Institution and Its Subsidiaries in
Fiscal Year 1992 88

Appendix 6. The Smithsonian Institution and Its
Subsidiaries, September 30,1992 121

Appendix 7. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution in
Fiscal Year 1992 145

Appendix 8. Contributing Members of the
Smithsonian Institution in Fiscal Year 1992 200

Financial Report 216

Notes: The arrangement of bureau and office listings within appendixes 1, 3, 5, 6, and 7 is not alphabetical but rather follows as
closely as possible the organization of the Smithsonian Institution as shown on page 4.
The contents of this Supplement were produced from electronic files provided by the bureaus and offices.
Smithsonian
Institution

Establishment, Board of Regents, Executive
Committee, and the Secretary

Office of the Secretary

Office of the Undersecretary
Office of the Inspector General
Office of the General Counsel
Office of Government Relations

Office of Public Affairs

Sciences

Office of the Assistant Secretary for Sciences

Conservation Analytical Laboratory

National Museum of Natural History/National
Museum of Man

National Zoological Park

Office of Environmental Awareness

Office of Fellowships and Grants

Office of the Registrar

Smithsonian Astrophysical Laboratory

Smithsonian Environmental Research Center

Smithsonian Institution Archives

Smithsonian Institution Libraries

Smithsonian Institution Man and the Biosphere
Biological Diversity Program

Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute

Arts and Humanities

Office of the Assistant Secretary for the Arts and
Humanities

Anacostia Museum

Archives of American Art

Arthur M. Sackler Gallery/Freer Gallery of Art

Cooper-Hewitt, National Museum of Design
Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden
Office of Institutional Studies

International Gallery

National Air and Space Museum

National Museum of African Art

National Museum of American Art

National Museum of American History
National Museum of the American Indian
National Portrait Gallery

Office of Exhibits Central

Office of Museum Programs

Office of Quincentenary Programs
Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service

Education and Public Service

Office of the Assistant Secretary for Education and
Public Service

Center for Folklife Programs and Cultural Studies

National Science Resource Center

Office of Elementary and Secondary Education

Wider Audience Development Program

External Affairs

Office of the Assistant Secretary for External Affairs
Office of International Relations

Office of Conference Services

Office of Special Events

Office of Telecommunications

Smithsonian Institution Press

Smithsonian Magazine

Air & Space/Smithsonian Magazine

Smithsonian National Associate Program
Smithsonian Resident Associate Program

Visitor Information and Associates’ Reception Center

Institutional Initiatives

Office of the Assistant Secretary for Institutional Initiatives

National Museum of the American Indian Campaign Office
Office of Development
Smithsonian Women's Committee

Finance and Administration

Office of the Assistant Secretary for Finance and
Administration

Affiliated Organizations

John EF. Kennedy for the Performing Arts

National Gallery of Art

Reading Is Fundamental

Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars
Chronology

The following is a representative selection of Smith-
sonian events during fiscal year 1992.

October

w Education Program Cooper-Hewitt, National
Museum of Design began a series of one-day design
career programs that gave high school students the op-
portunity to explore social issues and participate in
design activities with professional designers. The series

continued through March.

October

w Smithsonian Sesquicentenary The Office of the Assis-
tant Secretary for External Affairs began coordination of
the Smithsonian’s Isoth anniversary commemoration, to

be held in 1996.

October

w International Meeting The Office of International
Relations, in cooperation with the University of Califor-
nia Consortium on Mexico and federal agencies, par-
ticipated in the steering committee meeting of the
U.S.—Mexico Foundation for Science. Assistant
Secretary for External Affairs Thomas E. Lovejoy is a
member of the committee.

October

w Public Programs The Visitor Information and
Associates’ Reception Center initiated Spanish-language
tours of the Smithsonian Institution Building.

October

w Publications Two recent Smithsonian Institution
Press books— Women of Deh Koh and The Mystery of Com-
efs—were issued in German and Italian translations.
Paperback editions of The Lawmen and Women of Deh Koh
were released in the United States by Viking Penguin.

October

@ Radio Series “Folk Masters”—produced by the Office
of Telecommunications’ Radio Smithsonian, Carnegie
Hall, and the Washington public radio station WETA-
FM—was inaugurated, broadcast over public radio sta-
tions nationwide. It subsequently won the Corporation
for Public Broadcasting’s Gold Award.

October

w Tour
the art and architecture of Spain and Portugal. The jour-

Archives of American Art members explored

ney to Barcelona, Madrid, Leon, Santiago, Oporto, and
Lisbon included visits to private collections and special
tours of the sights and treasures in each city.

October

@ Publication The Smithsonian Institution Libraries’
catalog of the National Museum of African Art branch
holdings was published with more than 17,000 records
derived from SIL's on-line computer records.

October

w New Archive Cooper-Hewitt, National Museum of
Design established an African American Design Ar-
chive, a computerized compilation of African American
designers’ biographies.

October

w Special Event The Viking voyages to the New World
were commemorated at the National Air and Space
Museum with the queen of Norway and the president of

5
Iceland in attendance. The event was facilitated by the
Office of the Assistant Secretary for External Affairs.

October

w Education Program As part of the Cooper-Hewitt,
National Museum of Design’s innovative “designer-in-
residence” program, noted industrial designer Bruce
Hannah began four months at the museum teaching
school groups about design.

October—May
w Education Assistant Secretary for Education and
Public Service James Early and Ann Bay, director of the
Office of Elementary and Secondary Education, repre-
sented Smithsonian interests in the Federal Coordinat-
ing Committee for Science Engineering and
Technology's Committee for Education and Human
Resources, which met several times during the year.

October—September

@ Grants
ethnic, women’s, and advocacy committees received

Throughout the year, the Smithsonian

support from the Educational Outreach Program to or-
ganize pan-Institutional events for federally designated
commemorations. The program is administered by the
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Education and
Public Service.

October I

m Staff Appointment Paul Colinvaux, a well-known
ecologist and former professor at Ohio State University,
joined the scientific staff at the Smithsonian Tropical
Research Institute.

October I

a Internships The Office of Fellowships and Grants
selected seven minority interns for the fall term.

October 5

m Award Assistant Secretary for External Affairs
Thomas E. Lovejoy and Office of Environmental Aware-
ness Director Judith Gradwohl accepted the second an-
nual Swim Environmental Awareness Award for the
office’s oceans forum and exhibition.

6

October 8

w Exhibition “Recent Acquisitions: 1989-1991” opened
at the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden,
reflecting the strengthening of the museum's collection
with more than 80 paintings, sculptures, and works on
paper acquired as gifts or purchases.

October 10

w Exhibition The Archives of American Art New York
Regional Center Gallery, with Leo Castelli Gallery,
presented the exhibition “Lichtenstein/Castelli,” featur-
ing original works by Lichtenstein and a variety of
materials culled from the Archives’ Lichtenstein collec-
tion. A preview benefit, “A Salute to Roy Lichtenstein,”
opened the exhibition.

October 16

w Lecture Sertes In conjunction with the Hirshhorn
Museum's exhibition program, “Focus: Saint Clair
Cemin” kicked off a series of free early-evening talks of-
fering perspective on a current exhibition. Among the
speakers were artists Saint Clair Cemin, Alfredo Jaar,
Tim Rollins and K.O.S., and Francesc Torres, as well as
organizing curators Neal Benezra, Frank Gettings, Phyl-
lis Rosenzweig, and Director James T. Demetrion.

October 18

w Speech W. Richard West, Jr., director of the National
Museum of the American Indian, addressed more than
2,000 people at the annual meeting of the Alaska
Federation of Natives in Anchorage.

October 21

w Course
course “France Today” opened with an address by the
ambassador of France and featured columnist Jim
Hoagland and architect I. M. Pei.

The eight-week Resident Associate Program

October 21-31

mw Workshops
Dyes on Historic Textiles: Analysis and Preparation”
and “Advanced Dye Analysis,” two Conservation
Analytical Laboratory workshops, were organized by
Senior Textiles Conservator Mary Ballard and taught by
renowned dye chemist Dr. Helmut Schweppe.

“The Identification of Early Synthetic
October 23

mw Board Appointment
and collector from New York City, was elected to the
Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden’s 10-member

Jerry I. Speyer, business executive

Board of Trustees, replacing philanthropist Agnes Gund.

October 27

w Research The Office of Printing and Photographic
Services conducted a Research Expedition Program
with the Smithsonian National Associate Program,
“Cataloging Laser Discs.”

October 31

w Exhibit The Office of Public Affairs completed the
fifth and final version of a multicultural portable traveling
exhibit on the theme “The Smithsonian Is For Everyone”
for use by Smithsonian staffers attending conferences. The
exhibit features three teenagers in the National Air and
Space Museum. The other four versions show African
American, Asian American, Latino, and Native American
people and objects. The exhibits, funded by the Education-
al Outreach Program and the Special Exhibition Fund,

were used many times during the year.

October 31-November 4

m Festival The first U.S. Virgin Islands Folklife Fes-
tival took place on St. Croix, U.S.V.IL., with collabora-
tion and support from the Center for Folklife Programs
and Cultural Studies. The program, originally produced
for the Smithsonian's 1990 Festival of American
Folklife, involved Senegalese folk artists and the
Freedom Singers.

November

gw Award The Smithsonian Collection of Recordings
received a platinum disc from Sony Records for sales of
500,000 albums of Classic Jazz.

November
m Report The National Museum of the American
Indian issued “The Way of the People,” a historic docu-
ment that blends technological design and cultural
sensitivity in a plan for the acquisition of programmatic
information. The report summarized the views ex-

pressed by some 450 representatives of Indian tribes in

II consultations.

November

w@ Workshop The Smithsonian Institution Traveling Ex-
hibition Service and Time Warner Inc. hosted an educa-
tional workshop in Washington, D.C., for national
museum exhibitors and sponsors associated with the
major photography exhibition, “Songs of My People,”
which opened at Washington’s Corcoran Gallery of Art

in February.

November

@ Fellowships The Office of Fellowships and Grants
awarded four fellowships under the Smithsonian
Institution—University Programs in Structure and
Evolution of Terrestrial Ecosystems funded by the

Andrew W. Mellon Foundation.

November-May

@ Research Flights of a far-infrared spectrometer built
by the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory con-
tributed new information on ozone depletion.

November 1

w Exhibition “Ralph Earl: The Face of the Young
Republic” opened at the National Portrait Gallery.
The first exhibition devoted to the talented portrait
painter of the new American Republic contained
more than 60 paintings, including works by artists
whom he influenced.

November I

mw Grant The Office of Printing and Photographic Ser-
vices was awarded an equipment grant under the Apple
Library of Tomorrow Program.

November 4

w Cultural Heritage Observation To observe American In-
dian Heritage Month, the Wider Audience Develop-
ment Program organized “Native Pride, Power, and
Politics.” The Honorable Elijah Harper (Ojibwa), mem-
ber of the Canadian Parliament and honorary chief of
the Red Sucker Lake Band, discussed sovereignty issues
facing indigenous Canadians.
November 4

w Museum Shop The newly expanded and renovated
museum shop opened at the National Museum of
American Art.

November 6

w Television Premiere “Dream Window: Reflections on
the Japanese Garden,” produced by the Office of
Telecommunications in association with KajimaVision,
premiered on PBS.

November 7

Officials of the Department of
Antiquities of Jordan visited the Conservation Analyti-

w International Visitors

cal Laboratory to inspect completed conservation work
on part of the plaster sculpture excavated at the site
"Ain Ghazal (7th millennium B.C.). Director General of
Antiquities Safwan Khalaf as-Tell signed the proposal
for treatment of this material.

November 7

w Exhibition “Alfredo Jaar WORKS,” an installation
by this Chilean-born artist, opened at the Hirshhorn
Museum and Sculpture Garden as the year’s project of
site-specific art under a grant from the Andy Warhol
Foundation for the Visual Arts. Built in a darkened
Abram Lerner Balcony Room, the piece, titled
“MVSEVM,” used five sculptural light boxes to jux-
tapose a serene museum atmosphere with disturbing im-

ages from the Persian Gulf War.

November 13

mw Permanent Exhibition A new gallery, “Legend,
Memory, and the Great War in the Air,” opened at the
National Air and Space Museum. In a departure from
traditional museum exhibitions on World War I avia-
tion, this gallery contrasts the romantic myth of gallant
combat in the sky with the grim reality faced by early

military aviators.

November 14

w Lecture A Woodrow Wilson Center session on
“Perestroika in Retrospect” featured Egor Ligachev, a
former conservative Politburo member and a leading an-

tagonist of Gorbachev on Soviet economic reform, who

8

addressed the legacy of perestroika in the former Soviet
Union.

November 14

w New Facility The new National Zoo molecular
genetics (DNA “fingerprinting”) laboratory opened to
investigate the mysteries of complex animal mating
strategies and the evolutionary relationships of animals.

November 15

w Honor Arthur E. Raymond, aircraft designer and the
“father” of the DC-3 airplane, and John C. Mather and
the Cosmic Background Explorer (COBE) Team were
each awarded the National Air and Space Museum
Trophy.

November 16

w Symposium A symposium was held at the National
Portrait Gallery in connection with the exhibition
“Ralph Earl: The Face of the Young Republic.” A
variety of papers were presented by scholars from

the Wadsworth Atheneum, Columbia University, the
National Portrait Gallery, and the University of
Pennsylvania.

November 18

The Office of Printing and
Photographic Services participated in ongoing meetings

w Conference Participation

of subcommittees of the American National Standards
Institute. The subcommittees are developing test
methods to determine archival permanence in
photographic materials.

November 19-21

@ Conference The National Forum on Ocean Conserva-
tion brought together scientists, policy makers, and
members of the general public to frame the critical is-
sues, outline the state of knowledge, and discuss policy
options and research needs for ocean conservation. The
forum was organized by the Office of Environmental

Awareness.
November 21

w Species Survival The National Zoo received a Kiwi
bird from New Zealand to continue the breeding at the
Zoo of this disappearing species.

November 22

mw Symposium A symposium, “Chang Dai-chien and His
Art,” made possible through the generosity of Mrs. Ar-
thur M. Sackler, was held at the Sackler Gallery in con-
nection with the opening of the first major retrospective
in the United States of work by China’s foremost
modern painter.

November 23

mg Workshop Teacher and author Eliot Wigginton,
founder of the Foxfire Foundation, taught the first ina
series of workshops for teachers participating in the
Demonstration Schools Project, an effort of the Office of
Elementary and Secondary Education. The project helps
teachers and museum staff work together, developing
ways that Smithsonian resources can be applied across
the curriculum to improve teaching and learning in
areas the schools have identified as critical.

November 23

w Cultural Diversity The Office of Public Affairs held
the first meeting of the Ad Hoc Latino Media Advisory
Committee. The purpose of the nine-member external
advisory committee, composed of leading Latino jour-
nalists, publishers, and other communicators, is to help
OPA examine and improve its methods of communicat-
ing with Latino audiences through the media.

November 24

The Office of Printing and Photographic
Services hosted and cosponsored with the White House

w Seminar

News Photographers Association the nation’s only free
high school seminar in still and video news photography.

Winter

gw Research Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory
scientists identified the exploding star Nova Muscae as
a binary system in which the primary component Is a

“black hole.”

December

Bw Appointment L. Carole Wharton, former chief plan-
ning officer at Drexel University, become director of the
Office of Planning and Budget.

December

w Publication The Whole Folkways Catalogue was pub-
lished by the Center for Folklife Programs and Cultural
Studies as a guide to the Folkways collection. It was
distributed to 5,000 scholars, educators, and others.

December

m Closing The San Francisco office of the Archives of
American Art was closed and its operations consolidated
with those of the San Marino, California, facility.

December

@ Axtomation Smithsonian Institution Libraries’
automated circulation system was extended to the Na-
tional Museum of American History branch in Decem-
ber and to the Smithsonian Environmental Research
Center branch in April, bringing to 14 the number of
branches with this service.

December

The National Museum of African Art
acquired an extremely rare cast copper alloy helmet

Ww Acquisition
from northern Céte d'Ivoire.

December
m Premiere A film documentary examining Chiapan
Mayan participation in the 1991 Festival of American
Folklife premiered in Tuxtla Guttierez, Mexico. The
film was produced by the Center for Folklife Programs
and Cultural Studies with a team from Chiapas, Mexico.

December

w Workshop The Smithsonian Institution Traveling Ex-
hibition Service, the American Library Association, and
corporate sponsor Beneficial Management Corporation
hosted a workshop in Washington, D.C., for library ex-
hibitors of the panel adaptation of the National

Museum of Natural History’s major Columbus Quincen-
tenary exhibition, “Seeds of Change.”
December

@ Acquisition The Frederick Matson collection of Old
World clays was transferred from Matson’s laboratory
at Penn State University to the Conservation Analyti-
cal Laboratory. Researchers have analyzed samples of
these clays extensively during the past 20 years,
making them a valuable addition to the reference
materials in the CAL data bank.

December

@ Publication Demography and Natural History of the
Common Fruit Bat—on Barro Colorado, Panama (Smith-
sonian Contributions to Zoology, no. 511), was published
by the National Museum of Natural History. In this 11-
year field study, scientists for the first time have been
able to capture, mark, and monitor successfully a noctur-
nal and elusive population of tropical fruit bats, which
play an important role in tropical ecosystems.

December

@ Volunteers The Visitor Information and Associates’
Reception Center's annual appreciation event for volun-
teer information specialists was held in the Smithsonian
Castle Building.

December

@ Acquisition Through a generous gift of Irwin Silber
and Barbara Dane, the Folkways Archives and Collec-
tions, Center for Folklife Programs and Cultural
Studies, acquired Paredon Records master tapes and
contracts. The collection includes more than 50 titles
devoted to political and topical songs.

December

@ Publication
1992 issue of Smithsonian Runner, the bimonthly newsletter
for Native Americans produced by the Office of Public Af-
fairs, contributing members of the National Museum of

Beginning with the January—February

the American Indian began receiving a special edition of
Runner that includes a two-page supplement.

December

w Research The Smithsonian Institution Libraries
opened a database searching center for CD-ROMs.
Funded by a $50,000 grant from the James Smithson

fe)

Society, the center has eight databases, two local
workstations, and four ports for dial-in access.

December

w Special Events A festival of performances, symposia,
and exhibitions marking the 200th anniversary of
Mozart's death was presented by the National Museum
of American History and the Woodrow Wilson Inter-
national Center for Scholars along with the John F. Ken-
nedy Center for the Performing Arts, the Library of
Congress, and the National Gallery of Art.

December 2

@ Renovation A year-long renovation of the Hirshhorn
Museum and Sculpture Garden's 2.7-acre outdoor plaza
began, to include a wheelchair entrance, grassy exhibi-
tion areas for sculpture, additional trees and plantings,
granite paving, and a pathway along the edge. The
design was developed in conjunction with museum staff
by landscape architect James Urban of Annapolis,
Maryland, and is being carried out by the George
Hyman Construction Company.

December 5

@ Cultural Diversity The Office of Public Affairs, in
conjunction with the deputy assistant secretary for the
arts and humanities, held two focus groups to deter-
mine how African Americans learn about Smithsonian
activities and what the most efficient communication
channels are for reaching them. The focus groups were a
direct outgrowth of the OPA Ad Hoc African American
Media Advisory Committee.

December 7

w Exhibition “Time Covers the War: Personalities from
World War II” opened at the National Portrait Gallery.
Commemorating the soth anniversary of the Japanese
attack on Pearl Harbor, this exhibition included 36
original portraits commissioned for covers of Time

berween 1938 and 1945.

December 7-8
w Seminar To complement the Smithsonian Institution
Traveling Exhibition Service exhibition “’ Degenerate
Art’: The Fate of the Avant-Garde in Nazi Germany,”
the Smithsonian Resident Associate Program, in co-
sponsorship with the United States Holocaust Memorial
Museum, presented an all-day seminar with exhibition
viewing and screenings of German silent film master-
pieces accompanied by live orchestral music.

December 9

w Lecture
d’Orsay in Paris and granddaughter of artist Paul
Signac, spoke on French Neo-Impressionist artist

Francoise Cachin, director of the Musée

Georges Seurat in a sold-out lecture sponsored by the
Smithsonian Resident Associate Program.

December 15

m Special Event The National Zoo and the Friends of
the National Zoo (FONZ) sponsored a special perfor-
mance of the play Winnie the Pooh for homeless
children. Donated gifts were distributed.

December 16

mw leture An address by Chief Justice William Rehn-
quist was the highlight of Woodrow Wilson Center ac-
tivities commemorating the bicentennial of the Bill of
Rights.

December 17

w Exhibition
Print Club Biennial,” opened at the National Portrait

“Collecting Portrait Prints: Washington

Gallery. Fifty-four portrait images from the collections
of Washington Print Club members were displayed in

this 13th biennial exhibition, including prints from the
15th to the 20th century.

January

w Radio Series Premiere “Spirits of the Present: The
Legacy from Native America,” a 13-part series produced
by the Office of Telecommunications’ Radio Smith-
sonian, began broadcasting over 410 stations in the

United States and Canada.

January

mw Sympostum/Workshop The Second USA-Philippines
Phycology Symposium/Workshop was held in the
Philippines. Funded by the National Science Founda-
tion and co-organized by the National Museum of

Natural History, the meeting was attended by more
than 100 American and Filipino scientists.

January

w Exhibition The National Museum of African Art
opened “Purpose and Perfection: Pottery as a Woman's Art
in Central Africa,” a new permanent exhibition featuring
more than 60 vessels collected between 1900 and 1950.

January

w Exhibition Video “To Achieve These Rights: The
Struggle for Equality and Self-Determination in the Dis-
trict of Columbia, 1791-1978” opened at the Anacostia
Museum. A video epilogue of the same title was
produced by the Office of Telecommunications as the
concluding element of the exhibition.

January

w Pilot Program The Smithsonian National Associate
Program tested the use of media cosponsorship for its
regional lecture series. Five advertisements, two major
articles, and three smaller notices appeared in the Tal-
lahassee Democrat. Over 70 percent of the more than
1,000 participants ordered their tickets from the adver-
tisements. Similar media cosponsorships are being
planned for all future programs.

January

@ Visitor Services The National Museum of African Art
installed a new FM Assistive Listening System, which
allows hard-of-hearing visitors to have access to tours,
lectures, films, gallery discussions, and workshops.

January

w Exhibition Five copies of the Smithsonian Institution
Traveling Exhibition Service-American Library Associa-
tion poster panel adaptation of the National Museum of
Natural History's major Columbus Quincentenary exhibi-
tion, “Seeds of Change,” opened simultaneously in public
libraries across the United States. The exhibition will visit
public libraries in all 50 states through early 1994.

January

w Publication
Exhibition Service published a brochure and poster

The Smithsonian Institution Traveling
with updated information for “The Long Road Up the
Hill: African Americans in Congress,” the popular long-
running SITES exhibition.

January

@ Agreement Ten Japanese paintings from the Freer
Gallery of Art collection were sent to Japan for conser-
vation under a pioneering agreement with the Art Re-
search Foundation, a Tokyo establishment that
supports international cultural projects, and the
government of Japan. The project was initiated in
Japan by Professor Ikuo Hirayama, president of the
Tokyo National University of Fine Arts and Music
and senior director of the Art Research Foundation.
Additional paintings will be sent for conservation
under a continuing agreement.

January

w Publications The Office of Public Affairs began dis-
tribution of its two newest brochures, both funded by
the Educational Outreach Program. “Exploring African
American Heritage at the Smithsonian” is a four-color,
12-page visitor brochure distributed to junior high and
high school students and churches as well as the general
public. “African & African American Resources at the
Smithsonian” is a 32-page, two-color brochure that
gives detailed information on research, collections,
employment, and selected activities to scholars, jour-
nalists, students, and others.

January

w Exhibition Installation of “Affirmations: As-
sembiages by Schroeder Cherry” marked the beginning
of an effort by the Anacostia Museum to systematically
feature the works of regional artists in the museum's

Community Gallery.

January

mw Renovation The firm of James Stewart Polshek and
Partners was hired by Cooper-Hewitt, National
Museum of Design to renovate the two townhouses ad-
jacent to the main museum building and develop a
plan to integrate the three buildings and the terrace
and garden into a unified museum complex. The plan
will also enable the museum to comply with the
Americans with Disabilities Act.

I2

January—May

@ Database The National Museum of African Art’s
Eliot Elisofon Photographic Archives entered its entire
collection of 26,500 field slides by renowned Life
magazine photographer Eliot Elisofon into a new
database that facilitates access to the collection and
allows museum staff and archives visitors to conduct
research by theme as well as ethnic group.

January 9-10

w Public Meeting Approximately 100 people attended
consultation meetings held in Riverside and Sacramen-
to, California, in the continuing effort by the National
Museum of the American Indian to solicit participation
from Indians and Alaskan Natives in the design, con-
struction, display, and presentation of materials in the
new museum.

January 10

w Special Event The Smithsonian Resident Associate
Program celebrated the 100th birthday of film great
Hal Roach, featuring a dialogue with Roach, film clips,
and a festive birthday party enjoyed by a capacity

audience.

January 15

w Recording Release
tinuity series from the Smithsonian Collection of

The American Songbook, the first con-

Recordings, released Irving Berlin, the first album in a
six-part series, to be followed by recordings of the works
of George Gershwin, Cole Porter, Jerome Kern, Harold
Arlen, and Richard Rodgers and Lorenz Hart.

January 15-18

w Symposium Cooper-Hewitt, National Museum of
Design sponsored a three-day symposium, “The Edge of
the Millennium,” which explored the impact the new
millennium might have on the design field.

January 16

w International Visitors The Conservation Analytical
Laboratory was host to three delegates from the
Bunkacho (Agency for Cultural Affairs of Japan) in the
third annual visit under the an SI—Bunkacho agree-
ment. The delegation participated in discussions at the
Freer and Sackler galleries, the National Museum of
Natural History, and CAL.

January 16

The Office of Public Affairs
launched a year-long advertising campaign in two
Washington, D.C., Spanish-language newspapers. The
campaign gives biweekly highlights of Smithsonian

w Marketing Campaign

events of interest to the local Latino community.

January 18

w Special Event The birthday of Martin Luther King,
Jr., was observed with a free program titled “Freedom Is
a Constant Struggle,” examining the role of the Student
Non-Violent Coordinating Committee in the civil
rights movement. The event was presented by the Pro-
gram in African American Culture at the National
Museum of American History.

January 20

w Lecture
Achebe delivered the keynote address on “Martin
Luther King, Jr., and Africa” at the annual Martin
Luther King, Jr., holiday celebration. The event was

The renowned Nigerian writer Chinua

sponsored by the Secretary of the Smithsonian and
the Smithsonian’s Cultural Education Committee.

January 20

The Office of Public Affairs
began to air weekly advertisements on Washington,
D.C., radio stations WHUR-FM, WKYS-FM, and
WOL-AM. The campaign was a result of focus

w Marketing Campaign

groups held earlier in the fiscal year. As part of the
campaign kickoff, OPA shared sponsorship of a three-
hour Martin Luther King Day celebration on WKYS.
During January and February, listeners could call the
Smithsonian Information Center for a packet of infor-
mation on the Smithsonian and its Black History
Month events.

January 21

mw Speech W. Richard West, Jr., director of the Na-
tional Museum of the American Indian, delivered the
keynote address to the annual meeting of the Allied
Arts Foundation, which supports seven Oklahoma
City arts organizations.

January 22-24
w Dedication An 11-meter optical reflector designed to
complement an existing IO-meter instrument in
programs of ground-based gamma-ray astronomy at the
Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory’s Whipple
Observatory was dedicated with ceremonies on the
mountain and a related international workshop.

January 27

w Lecture A Woodrow Wilson Center Evening
Dialogue featured well-known author and Yale Univer-
sity professor Paul Kennedy, who presented a provoca-
tive talk on the status of U.S.—Japanese relations and
the future of the bilateral relationship in a rapidly
changing world.

January 30

w Lectures Two sold-out Smithsonian Resident As-
sociate Program lectures featured architectural historian
Vincent Scully and Gloria Steinem in her second Smith-
sonian appearance under RAP’s aegis.

January 31

w Film Series “Daughters of the Dust,” a highly
praised, feature-length film about a turn-of-the-century
African American Gullah family, had its Washington
premiere as part of the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculp-
ture Garden’s free film series. The series, also featuring
artist documentaries and films for young audiences, ran
throughout the fall, winter, and spring, frequently offer-
ing films to full houses in advance of their commercial
release.

February

w Black History Month Special exhibitions, films,
lectures, performances, and workshops were

presented throughout the Institution in observance of
Black History Month. One highlight of the celebra-
tion was “Roots, Musically Speaking,” a lecture
organized by the Wider Audience Development Pro-
gram, featuring Dr. Wyatt Tee Walker, senior pastor
of Canaan Baptist Church in Harlem, New York, and
ethnomusicologist, speaking on the African roots of
black sacred music.
February

w Research Agreement The National Museum of Natural
History signed an agreement in Lima with the Republic
of Peru for long-term research in the Manu Reserved
Zone in the Peruvian Amazon lowlands.

February

@ Publication The Office of Elementary and Secondary
Education published Protest and Patriotism, a 40-page il-
lustrated curriculum enrichment guide for high school
teachers, produced in collaboration with the National
Museum of American History’s Division of Political His-
tory. The kit was distributed to more than 15,000 teachers.

February

@ Biodiversity Workshops The Office of the Assistant
Secretary for External Affairs developed and hosted the
Sustainable Biosphere Project by organizing six regional
workshops to identify and disseminate successful
resource management techniques.

February

@ Biodiversity With the World Resources Institute, the
Office of the Assistant Secretary for External Affairs
hosted a briefing, “Stemming the Tide of Biodiversity
Loss at the Global and National Level.”

February

w International Conference The American-Soviet Film-
makers Conference, cosponsored by the Smithsonian
and the U.S. Information Agency, was held at the
Smithsonian.

February

w Research The establishment of the Mpala Wildlife Re-
search Trust was announced at a press conference at the
Embassy of Kenya. The trust, administered jointly by the
Kenyan Wildlife Service, the National Museums of Kenya,
the Smithsonian, and Princeton University, will oversee a
research center at Mpala Ranch in the Kenyan highlands.

February

@ Radio Brazdcast
produced by the Office of Telecommunications with

“Jazz,” a Radio Smithsonian special

14

host Julian Bond, aired over National Public Radio in
honor of Black History Month.

February

@ Grants The Smithsonian National Board awarded
grants of up to $15,000 each for Columbus Quincentenary
education projects to the National Museum of American
History, National Museum of Natural History, Office of
Elementary and Secondary Education, and Hirshhorn
Museum and Sculpture Garden. The Board also supported
the Smithsonian’s Quincentenary inaugural events.

February

w Publication A Pot of Paint: Aesthetics on Trial in
Whistler vs. Ruskin, by Linda Merrill, was published by
Smithsonian Institution Press. It was sponsored for pub-
lication by the Regents’ Publication Program.

February

w@ Publication The Smithsonian Institution Press book
Benjamin O. Davis, Jr.: American was issued in paperback
by Plume Penguin.

February

w Exhibition Opening The National Museum of African
Art displayed a rare cast metal ring from its collection
in the exhibition “Between Man and the Gods: Sacrifice
and Ceremony on a Cast Metal Ring.” The exhibition
was the result of research conducted by Curator Roslyn
Walker.

February

w Acquisition Atlanta Interfaith Broadcasters
presented the Anacostia Museum with 35 videotapes
of African American church and family histories. A
special emphasis was placed on the role of women in
the church.

February

w Bilingual Program The Smithsonian National As-
sociate Program held its first bilingual program in El
Paso, Texas, and Juarez, Mexico. The invitational
brochure was translated into Spanish, as were the
events held in Mexico.
February

w Fund Raising Net unrestricted income from the
Smithsonian National Associate Program's 1991 year-
end fund-raising appeal to Contributing Members
exceeded $250,000.

February I

w Exhibition “The Levy-Franks Family Colonial
Portraits” opened at the National Portrait Gallery. The
seven portraits (1725-35) are among the few surviving
family groupings from the colonial period; the sitters
were leading members of New York’s Jewish com-
munity. The exhibition also included correspondence
and family silver. It was organized by the Museum of
Fine Arts, Boston, with participation and support from
the American Jewish Historical Society, Waltham,
Massachusetts.

February I-2

w Performance Beggar's Holiday, a Broadway musical
composed by Duke Ellington and lost for decades,
received its first two performances in 45 years ina criti-
cally acclaimed concert version at the National Museum
of American History. Its score was reconstructed by the
museum's Division of Museum Programs staff from frag-
ments discovered in the vast Duke Ellington Collection
held in the NMAH Archives Center.

February 2

w Benefit The Red Sage restaurant in Washington,
D.C., held its grand opening as a benefit for the Nation-
al Museum of the American Indian; the hosts and
guests contributed $12,500.

February 3

w New Facility The Smithsonian Board of Regents ap-
proved the acquisition of a small house on Colon Island,
Bocas del Toro, to serve as a research station for scien-
tists at the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute
interested in studying the pristine marine and ter-
restrial habitats along the Atlantic coast of Panama.

February 3-29

w Collection Care The Spirit of St. Louis was lowered to
the floor of the Milestones of Flight Hall for cleaning

and inspection by the National Air and Space Museum
collections management staff. The work, including re-
rigging and ultrasonic testing, was done in full view of
the public.

February 4

w Exhibition “Martin Puryear,” a retrospective exhibi-
tion of 38 works by the influential Washington-born
sculptor, opened at the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculp-
ture Garden with a festive evening reception on Martin
Puryear Day (proclaimed by District of Columbia
Mayor Sharon Pratt Kelly). Puryear returned April 1 to
conduct a workshop for high school students. The
exhibition, supported in Washington by the Truland
Family Foundation and Truland Systems Corporation,
was organized by the Art Institute of Chicago.

February 7
@ Concerts The cultural traditions of Korea were the
focus of the “Series in Celebration of Korean Performing
Arts,” featuring three free public concerts by Korean
artists. The series was cosponsored by the Arthur M.
Sackler Gallery and the U.S.—Korea Foundation of
Washington, D.C., and made possible by funding from
United Technologies Corporation.

February 9

w Special Event The National Museum of American
Art hosted a Chinese Lunar New Year celebration on its
front steps for neighbors and friends of the museum.

February 15

@ Festival “Sugar and Spice,” a free festival held in con-
junction with the “Seeds of Change” exhibition at the
National Museum of Natural History, featured
demonstrations, food, and music illustrating the impact
of the Caribbean sugar industry on Europeans, African
slaves, and indigenous Americans. Subsequent festivals
featured potatoes and corn.

February 18

w Publication The Smithsonian Book of Books, a history
of books and bookmaking, was the lead title and cover
subject of the Smithsonian Institution Press fall 1992
catalogue. It was also featured at the American Book-
sellers Association annual convention in June.
February 18

w New Project The Save Outdoor Sculpture! project, or-
ganized by the National Museum of American Art and the
National Institute for the Conservation of Cultural Proper-
ty, was launched by nationwide press announcement.

February 20

w Honor The Smithsonian Institution awarded its
Langley Medal to Lt. Gen. Benjamin O. Davis, Jr.
(USAF, ret.), whose lifetime of achievements includes
leading the first squadrons of African American pilots—
popularly known as the “Tuskegee Airmen”—into
battle during World War II.

February 20

w Exhibition “Hiram Powers: An American Sculptor and
His Private Patrons,” curated by David Dearinger of the
New York Regional Center of the Archives of American
Art, featured the work of one of the best known and most
influential sculptors of the mid-19th century. The exhibi-
tion included a selection from the Hiram Powers Papers,
one of the most extensive in the Archives of American Art
and one of the most important extant archival sources deal-
ing with American sculpture.

February 21
@ Ceremony In conjunction with the National Museum
of American History, the Wider Audience Development
Program organized a rededication ceremony for the
exhibition “A More Perfect Union,” featuring remarks
from four Japanese American internees including Rep.
Norman Mineta (D-Calif.).

February 25

w Public Program
Graham,” an offering in the National Portrait Gallery’s

“An Evening with Katharine
“self-portrait” series, featured the chairman of the board

of the Washington Post Company, interviewed by Marc
Pachter.

February 26

gw Lecture
County Board of Supervisors, delivered an address, “The

Gloria Molina, member of the Los Angeles

Changing Face of Urban Politics and Culture,” and par-
ticipated in a panel discussion. The program was co-

16

sponsored by the Office of the Assistant Secretary for
Education and Public Service, the Wider Audience
Development Program, the National Museum of
American History, and the Office of Quincentenary
Programs.

February 26

w Cultural Diversity Cooper-Hewitt, National
Museum of Design held a panel discussion, book
signing, and reception to celebrate the book African
American Architects in Current Practice. This event
reinforced CHM’s commitment to foster dialogue on
the contributions of diverse cultures to architecture and

design.
February 27
w@ Loan In recognition of a friendship originally sym-

bolized by a gift of $1 million from the government of
Korea for the construction of the Arthur M. Sackler
Gallery, a bronze Buddhist temple bell made in
approximately 1100 went on view at the Sackler Gallery
during a two-year loan from the National Museum of

Korea in Seoul.

February 28

w Exhibition
opened its gallery commemorating the 25th anniversary

The National Air and Space Museum

of the popular television series “Star Trek.” Because of
the public response, the Visitor Information and
Associates’ Reception Center implemented a special
pass system for visiting the exhibition.

March

w Symposium and Exhibition The Smithsonian Institu-
tion Libraries, in cooperation with the National
Museum of American History, held a symposium on
“World's Fairs and Modern Life” that was attended by
scholars, collectors, and the public. The theme was tied
to SIL'’s exhibition “World's Fairs,” which displayed a
colorful range of publications and souvenirs from inter-
national expositions held between 1851 and 1940.

March

w Conference The Office of the Assistant Secretary for
External Affairs developed and hosted “U.S. Economic
Opportunities in Global Environmental Agreements.”
March

w International Meeting The Office of the Assistant
Secretary for External Affairs hosted the first meeting of
the ministers of education of 12 former Soviet republics.

March

w Biodiversity Conference With the Society for Eth-
nobiology, the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Ex-
ternal Affairs developed and held a conference “Can
Nuts Save the Rainforest? The Promise of Ethnobiology
and Non-Timber Forest Products.”

March
w International Visitor The Office of International Rela-

tions coordinated a visit to the Smithsonian by “Mama”

C. Tamanda Kadzamira, first lady of Malawi.

March

w Exhibition Videos
Office of Telecommunications opened in the National

Two short videos produced by the

Museum of Natural History’s experimental exhibition,
“The World of Ecosystems.”

March

w Awards The Smithsonian Institution Press books
The Music of Stephen Foster; Archaeological and Historical
Perspective on the Spanish Borderlands East; and The First
Golden Age of Rocketry were selected for the American
Library Association’s CHOICE awards as Outstanding
Academic Books of 1992.

March

w Visitor Services. Public information telephone calls
received by the Visitor Information and Associates’
Reception Center exceeded 38,000, representing the
second busiest month in nearly I0 years.

March

w Publications Smithsonian Institution Libraries pub-
lished The Books of the Fairs: Materials about World’s
Fairs, 1834-1916, in the Smithsonian Institution Libraries
(American Library Association), an illustrated, an-
notated bibliography of 1,700 titles in the SIL collec-
tions with a scholarly essay by Robert W. Rydell. The

publication is a result of a preservation project in which
some 2,000 deteriorating volumes were microfilmed.

March

@ Publication The Office of Elementary and Secondary
Education began publication of the Green Bulletin, a
monthly newsletter on Smithsonian education to en-
hance communication among the Institution’s educators
and between educators and other Smithsonian staff.

March

w Name Change The Office of Folklife Programs was
renamed the Center for Folklife Programs and Cultural
Studies to better reflect the office’s scope of research and
activities and increasing interest in issues of cultural
diversity, conservation, and policy.

March

@ Acquisition The Native American Museums and Cul-
tural Centers Subject File, organized by the Office of
Museum Programs, was deposited in the Museum Refer-
ence Center. The file contains written and photographic
resources on more than 100 museums and cultural
centers.

March

w Exhibition “Poster Portraits,” an exhibition as-
sembled from National Portrait Gallery collections,
featured posters promoting Wild West shows, athletic
events, political campaigns, and Hollywood films.
Included were such popular figures as Thomas Edison,
Buffalo Bill Cody, Charlie Chaplin, James Cagney, Rita
Hayworth, Thomas E. Dewey, and Harry S. Truman.

March

@ Research The 15th annual conference of the Society of
Ethnobotany, co-organized by National Museum of
Natural History anthropologists, was held at the Smith-
sonian. At the meeting, a museum anthropologist and
colleagues announced the discovery of what they believe
is the wild ancestor of today’s summer squashes. Their
findings provide convincing new evidence for the impor-
tance of Native American plant domestication in pre-
historic eastern North America.
March

w Collection Documentation The National Museum of
Natural History presented a complete set of
photographs documenting the Mohave tribal collections
housed in the museum to Mohave representatives for

use in their cultural and educational programs.

March

w New Equipment
Institute installed a new Potain crane at the

The Smithsonian Tropical Research

Metropolitan Nature Park to continue studies of the
forest canopy. The leased crane, supported by a grant
from the German and Finnish governments, gives re-
searchers access to a considerably more extensive
canopy area than the crane previously used as a

prototype.

March—June

@ Research The first ground-based detection of ultra-
high-energy gamma rays from a source outside our galaxy
was made by an international group at the Smithsonian
Astrophysical Observatory’s Whipple Observatory.

March 1

w Exhibition The highly successful exhibition
“Homecoming: William H. Johnson and Afro-
America, 1938-1946” closed at the National Museum
of American Art to begin its national tour of four
venues at the Whitney Museum of American Art in
New York City.

March 2

w Lecture For Women’s History Month, Delegate
Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-D.C.) addressed contemporary
issues facing working women. The event was coordinated
by the Wider Audience Development Program.

March 3

w Lecture
ticipated in a lecture and guided tour of the exhibition

Archives of American Art members par-

“American Masters: Six Artists from the Permanent
Collection of the Whitney Museum of American Art.”
New York Regional Director Stephen Polcari was lec-
turer and exhibit guide.

18

March 5

w Performance The Smithsonian Resident Associate
Program presented Rosemary Clooney in her Smith-
sonian debut at a sold-out gala evening, highlighted by
Clooney’s presentation of her first gold record for
“C’mon-a My House” to the National Museum of
American History. RAP Director Janet Solinger
presented the James Smithson Bicentennial Medal to
Clooney and announced a contribution to the Betty
Clooney Foundation for Persons with Brain Injury.

March 5-8

w Program Office of Exhibits Central Designer Ken-
neth Young and Editor Diana Cohen conducted an ex-
hibition workshop in Port-of-Spain, Trinidad, as part of
an Organization of American States’ program, “The
Museum as Collector and Interpreter of National
Heritage.”

March 6

w Public Programs As part of its efforts to expand
public awareness and understanding of Asian culture,
the Arthur M. Sackler Gallery presented the first of
eight free public performances of Pacific Bridge
Theatre's interpretation of three Japanese No plays ina
program titled “Long After Love.” The Pacific Bridge
Theatre experiments in bridging theatrical experiences

of different cultures.

March 6

w Exhibition The exhibition “Between Home and
Heaven: Contemporary Landscape Photography,” drawn
from the National Museum of American Art's newly
formed collection of 300 images, opened at the museum
and later will begin a national tour of seven museums.

March 7-133

@ Conference The National Science Resources Center
convened its first Working Conference on Precollege
Science Education for Scientists and Engineers. The con-
ference is the first of four annual meetings designed to
help scientists and engineers become more effectively in-
volved in elementary science education reform. Twenty-
eight participants from academia, federal research
facilities, and private industry attended.
March 8-9

@ Conference The Office of Elementary and Secondary
Education cosponsored with the Quality Education for
Minorities Network a national working conference to
propose guidelines for ensuring quality multicultural edu-
cation for children from kindergarten through grade 12.

March 10

um G:ft The Freer Gallery of Art received $1.5 million
from the B. Y. Lam Foundation of Hong Kong to acquire
Chinese works of art. The gift was the largest the gallery
has received from a single donor since its opening in 1923.

March 11

m Award Established The Shimada Prize honoring
excellence in East Asian art history scholarship was
founded by the Arthur M. Sackler Gallery, the Freer
Gallery of Art, and the Metropolitan Center for Far East-
ern Art Studies in Kyoto, Japan. The $10,000 biennial
prize will be presented to the author of an outstanding
recent publication in the field. The prize is named for the
eminent Japanese scholar, Professor Shimada Shujiro.

March 17-18

m Conference The Office of Elementary and Secondary
Education convened a working conference to examine
strategies for developing new Smithsonian programs to
reach teenagers, especially local at-risk teenagers. Repre-
sentative teenagers, youth group directors, community
leaders, teachers, and museum educators assessed the
needs of teenage audiences and determined what kinds
of programs would best meet these needs.

March 19

w Lecture A Woodrow Wilson Center meeting on
“Sustainable Peace and Democracy in Central America”
featured Nobel laureate Oscar Arias Sanchez, who exam-
ined the future of Latin America’s new democracies.

March 26

w Benefit and Exhibition The New England Committee
of the Archives of American Art sponsored a preview
benefit of “Kindred Spirits,” an exhibition of important
artists’ letters and manuscripts from the collection of
Professor Maurice Bloch.

March 26-29

The National Science
Resources Center was a major participant at the annual

@ Conference Participation

conference of the National Science Teachers Association
involving more than 500 teachers.

March 29

w Exhibition “First Ladies: Political Role and Public
Image,” opened to the public at the National Museum
of American History. It is the first major museum
exhibition to study first ladies from Martha Washing-
ton to Barbara Bush in the contexts of political history,
women’s history, and evolving public perceptions and
expectations of the office.

March 30

w Exhibition An exhibition of 43 baskets, “John
McQueen: The Language of Containment,” opened at
the Renwick Gallery of the National Museum of
American Art.

April

@ Publication Hail to the Candidate by Keith Melder, a
book about the American elective process featuring the
National Museum of American History’s Becker Collec-
tion, was published by Smithsonian Institution Press
and chosen as a gift book by the Office of Development.

April

w@ Milestone The Smithsonian National Associate
Program’s Contributing Membership total exceeded
70,000 households; contributions exceeded $8 million.

April
w Volunteers The Visitor Information and Associates’

Reception Center’s annual appreciation event for
behind-the-scenes volunteers was held in the Castle.

April

w Symposium An international symposium on amphipods
was held at the National Museum of Natural History in
honor of the late Dr. J. Laurence Barnard. Twenty-five
colleagues from 12 countries presented papers on current
trends and future priorities in amphipod research.
April

@ Research Michael Kucher of the University of
Delaware and Gregory Dreicer of Cornell University
began their fellowships as the first two scholars in the
Smithsonian Institution Libraries/Dibner Library Resi-
dent Scholar Program. The program was established to
foster the study of the history of science and technology
and is funded by the Dibner Fund.

April

@ Appointment
as vice-president for corporate finance in India, was

Sudeep Anand, formerly with Citibank

appointed treasurer of the Smithsonian Institution.

April

w Meeting The Smithsonian National Board held its
spring meeting in Charleston, South Carolina, featuring
the Smithsonian Jazz Masterworks Orchestra in a free
public concert.

April

@ International Visitor K. Nojima, of Japan’s Urban
Culture Foundation, and N. Ishizuka, of the Ministry of
Construction, visited the Smithsonian to discuss an ex-
change program that brought three Japanese researchers
to the Smithsonian in 1992 and sent the first of several
Smithsonian researchers to Japan.

April

w New Equipment
acquired with a grant to the Smithsonian Tropical Re-

A new scanning electron microscope,
search Institute from the Erna and Victor Hasselblad
Foundation cf Sweden, was installed at the Tupper Cen-

ter, making possible high-resolution photographs of or-
ganisms under study.

April

w Internships The Office of Fellowships and Grants
selected 26 minority interns for the summer term.

April-August

mw New Equipment
for the joint University of Arizona-Smithsonian Institu-

The 6.5-meter replacement mirror

tion Multiple Mirror Telescope was successfully cast.

20

April 4-8

@ Program The Office of Exhibits Central presented a
workshop on exhibition production techniques for repre-
sentatives from American Indian institutions as part of
the Office of Museum Programs’ “Training in Museum
Work for Native Communities.”

April 7

w Film Premiere The Smithsonian Resident Associate
Program presented the Washington premiere of
Howards End, with producer Ismail Merchant and

director James Ivory in attendance for the screening
and festive reception.

April 7

w Lecture
lighted Raul Alfonsin, former president of Argentina,

A Woodrow Wilson Center program spot-

who was a guest scholar at the center. Alfonsin spoke
about issues in the transition to a democratic society.

April 7-9

uw Sympostum The first Smithsonian Astrophysical
Observatory “Symposium on Star Formation and Re-
lated Topics” was held in Cambridge, Massachusetts.

April 7-9
w Seminar The Conservation Analytical Laboratory
course “Leather for Conservators,” coordinated by Senior
Textiles Conservator Mary Ballard and Objects Conser-
vator Mary Lou Garbin, was attended by 12 participants
from around the United States and Canada.

April 9

gw Death Carmen E. Turner, under secretary since mid-
December 1990, died after a long illness.

April 9

@ Death Martin Williams, teacher, author, critic, and
lifelong student of jazz and American popular culture,
died. His books ranged from histories, critiques, and
commentaries on American jazz to collections of

American comics.
April 10

wm Marketing Karen Legett, midday radio personality
on Washington, D.C., station WMAL-FM, began a
weekly interview with Office of Public Affairs staffers
on events, exhibitions, and museum tips for listeners.
The five-minute segment will continue indefinitely
each Friday as part of the station’s programming, at no
cost to the Smithsonian.

April 11

w Milestone At the National Zoological Park, a new-
born gorilla was adopted by a 10-year-old female who
was still nursing her own 11-month-old baby. The
natural mother apparently rejected her infant and per-
mitted the adoption, an extremely rare phenomenon.

April 11

@ Acquisition John Singleton Copley’s portrait of Mrs.
George Watson (1765), acquired by the National Museum
of American Art, went on public view.

April 12

w Film Screening In conjunction with the National
Museum of American History, the Wider Audience
Development Program hosted Director Steven Okazaki
for a screening of his Academy Award—winning
documentary of one woman’s experience in Japanese
American internment camps.

April 15

w Exhibition “Arnold Newman’s Americans,” an
exhibition celebrating the National Portrait Gallery's
acquisition of 101 of Newman’s photographs, opened at
the gallery. Newman's long association with such
magazines as Life, Look, Fortune, and Holiday brought
him assignments to photograph most of the major per-
sonalities of post-Depression America.

April 15
w Exhibition Opening

Dimensions” opened at the National Museum of
African Art. The exhibition featured etchings, linocuts,

“Recent Acquisitions/New

watercolors, tapestries, and ceramics by nine modern
artists frorn Nigeria, Céte d’Ivoire, South Africa, and
Kenya.

April 16

w Milestone The National Zoo celebrated the 20th
anniversary of the arrival of the giant pandas.

April 16

w Special Event The Anacostia Museum, in conjunction
with the Howard University Department of History,
sponsored “First Freed,” an observance of Emancipation
in the District of Columbia.

April 20

w Exhibition The Smithsonian Tropical Research
Institute's bilingual exhibit “Parting the Green Cur-
tain: The Evolution of Tropical Biology in Panama”
opened at the Pontificia Universidad Catdlica of
Ecuador, where it attracted more than 4,000 visitors.

April 20

@ Acquisition By special purchase through the
McBurnie Fund and the Smithsonian Major Acquisi-
tions Fund, the National Museum of American
History’s Division of Graphic Arts acquired a working
model of a Genard printing press, dating from about
1787, that the inventor had presented to members of the
French Academy.

April 22

@ Reception A reception was held to commemorate the
National Museum of the American Indian National
Campaign's first year of operation.

April 23

@ Conference The Rockefeller Foundation Division of
Arts and Humanities cosponsored with the Office of
Environmental Awareness a meeting with artists and
writers to discuss ways to incorporate arts and
humanities in environmental exhibitions.

April 23

@ Cultural Diversity Asa result of the first meeting of
the Office of Public Affairs’ Ad Hoc Latino Media Ad-
visory Committee, held in late November, OPA opened
a Spanish-language, 24-hour, general-information
phone line in cooperation with the Visitor Information

2I
and Associates’ Reception Center. A three-minute
recording features highlights of Smithsonian exhibi-
tions and activities of special interest to Latinos. One-
page Spanish-language flyers were also prepared for
distribution at museum information desks.

April 25-26

w Special Events The National Zoo celebrated Earth
Day with special animal training demonstrations, an ex-
tinct animals memorial, hands-on activities, and special
talks and tours.

April 26

w Honor Richard P. Wunder, an independent scholar,
was awarded the fourth annual Charles C. Eldredge
Prize by the National Museum of American Art for his
1991 book, Hiram Powers, Vermont Sculptor, 1805-1873

April 27-May 1

@ Conference Participation At the Materials Research
Society Meeting in San Francisco, cosponsored by the
Conservation Analytical Laboratory and the Getty Con-
servation Institute, CAL staff, fellows, interns, and re-
search collaborators presented 11 papers and 4 posters
and served as session chairs.

April 28-30

@ Retreat
mental Awareness, held at the Donaldson Brown Center

A retreat sponsored by the Office of Environ-

in Port Deposit, Maryland, assembled scholars and
fisheries experts to plan “Ocean Planet,” a traveling
exhibition slated to open at the National Museum of
Natural History in 1995.

April 30

@ Cultural Heritage Observation In honor of Asian
Pacific American Heritage Month, the Wider
Audience Development Program organized “Chow
Mein and Salsa: Asians in the Americas.” Dr. Evelyn
Hu-DeHart, director of the Center for Studies of Eth-
nicity and Race in America at the University of
Colorado at Boulder, spoke on Asians throughout the
Americas.

22

April 30

w Honor WW. Richard West, Jr., director of the Na-
tional Museum of the American Indian, was the
honored guest at an assembly at the Native American
Magnet School in Buffalo, New York. The children
presented West with the proceeds from a soda can
drive that the school conducted as a fund raiser for
the museum.

May

@ Grant The Smithsonian Institution Traveling
Exhibition Service, the National Museum of American
History, the Office of Public Affairs, and the Office of
Development hosted a major media event to announce a
$7 million grant from the Lila Wallace—Reader’s Digest
Fund awarded to the Smithsonian for a 10-year jazz
initiative entitled “America’s Jazz Heritage.” The award
is the largest single grant ever given to the Smith-
sonian. The news conference included a performance by
the Smithsonian Jazz Masterworks Orchestra.

May

w Workshop
at the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory on

“Space for Women,” a one-day workshop

opportunities and options for women in astronomy,
astrophysics, and the earth sciences, attracted Boston-
area high school students.

May

w International Conference The Smithsonian Environ-
mental Research Center helped host Water Quality
International, a research conference of the Internation-
al Water Pollution Control Federation attended by
5,000 scientists and engineers from more than 50

countries.
May
@ Acquisition The National Museum of African Art

acquired 12 etchings by Mohammad Omer Khalil, a
living Sudanese artist born in 1936.

May
w Award “Moving America’s Mail,” a short video

produced by the Office of Telecommunications for the
new National Postal and Philatelic Museum, won two
MUSE Awards from the American Association of
Museums as best in category and third place in the over-
all competition.

May

Grants James Smithson Society grants totaling
$430,850 were awarded to 15 Smithsonian projects.

May

w Museum Shops
opened in the Smithsonian Information Center.

A new museum shop sales component

May

At the first National Science
Foundation—sponsored National Forum on Children’s

@ Conference Participation

Science Books, National Science Resources Center
Director of Publications Kathleen Johnston chaired a
panel on publishers’ and reviewers’ views of children’s
science trade books.

May

w Publication The Office of Elementary and Secondary
Education published “Band Music in American Life,”
the first in the office’s Smithsonian Chronicles series of
primary source portfolios for high school use.

May 2

w Lecture
Cruz spoke on his role in the establishment of the
United Farm Workers Union. His talk was coordinated
by the Wider Audience Development Program.

Filipino American labor leader Philip Vera

May 5

mw Donation The estate of Earl S. Tupper donated $1.5
million to the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute
to support scientific research on tropical biology. An ad-
ditional $1 million annually for 1993 and 1994 was part
of the donation.

May 12

mu Gift The Garden Club of American presented
Secretary Robert McC. Adams with the deed of gift for
the historic collection of more than 30,000 glass-plate
slides, photographs, and 35mm slides depicting

American gardens and parks, along with related files.
The collection will become part of the Smithsonian's
Archives of American Gardens.

May 13-15

@ Conference
Design cosponsored a conference, “Universal Design:

Cooper-Hewitt, National Museum of

Access to Daily Living,” in conjunction with Pratt In-

stitute and Columbia University College of Physicians

and Surgeons’ Department of Rehabilitation Medicine.
The conference was a forum on design issues that affect
people with disabilities.

May 14

w Education Program The National Air and Space
Museum's Education Office, Department of Space His-
tory, and Laboratory for Astrophysics presented the first
museum “School Night.” The program brings local stu-
dents, teachers, and administrators into the museum
after public hours for a program of lectures, films, and
demonstrations.

May 15

w Symposium Dumbarton Oaks and the Arthur M. Sack-
ler Gallery cosponsored a symposium, “Mughal Gardens:
Sources, Representations, Places, and Prospects,” to ex-
amine historical, political, social and artistic aspects of the
gardens of Mughal India. The meeting opened with a lec-
ture by Elizabeth Moynihan; the Sackler Gallery session of
the two-day event was made possible through the
generosity of Mrs. Arthur M. Sackler.

May 19

@ International Briefing Ata special briefing breakfast
in Washington, D.C., National Museum of the
American Indian Director W. Richard West, Jr., in-
formed embassy officials and the international media
about the National Museum of the American Indian col-
lection and the National Campaign.

May 20

w Exhibition The National Air and Space Museum
opened “Republic P-47 Thunderbolt,” the first in the
museum’s “Air Power in World War II” series, which
will run through 1995.

23
May 21

mw Tour An Archives Society members’ tour, private
viewing of the art collection, and tour of the grounds of
the Forest Hills Cemetery in Jamaica Plain, Boston
(established in 1848) was sponsored by the New England
Regional Center of the Archives of American Art. The
tour provided a rare view of what has been hailed as
Daniel Chester French's greatest work, The Angel of
Death Staying the Hand of the Sculptor, a bronze memorial
to the noted 19th-century sculptor Martin Milmore.

May 21-22

w@ Workshop Series The Conservation Analytical
Laboratory, the National Gallery of Art, and the Canadian
Conservation Institute presented “Art in Transit,” the first
in a series of workshops to be held in the United States and
Canada. The workshop attracted 78 participants.

May 26-31

Wider Audience Develop-
ment Program Director Marshall Wong coordinated a
panel titled “Preserving Our Collective Memory:
Museological Issues Facing the Asian Pacific Com-

@ Conference Participation

munity” at the annual conference of the Association of
Asian American Studies.

May 27

@ Cultural Diversity The Smithsonian Institution
Libraries were awarded $37,500 by the James Smithson
Society to establish a pilot program for a postgraduate

residency for minorities in library and information science.

May 27

w Benefit and Exhibition The Archives of American Art
West Coast Regional Center, San Marino, California,
sponsored a preview benefit of “Semina,” an exhibition
devoted to the underground publication (1957-63). Semi-
na was co-produced by Wallace Berman (1926-76), a
leading artist in California during the 1950s and 1960s.
The Archives recently acquired the Berman papers.

May 27-30

w Workshop The first International Workshop on
Luminous High Latitude Stars was held at the Smith-
sonian Astrophysical Observatory.

24

May 28

@ Conference A conference on “Education Improvement
Planning” was held at the Smithsonian, cosponsored by
the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Education and
Public Service and the Society for Applied Learning
Technolegy. The development of standards and practices
in the application of technology to learning methods for
school personnel was the subject.

May 28-30

w Special Event As part of its increasing focus on in-
dividual fund raising, the Office of Development spon-
sored a weekend of activities, “Exploring the Smithsonian
Universe,” for top individual donors and prospects.

May 29-30

u Symposium A symposium titled “Contemporary
American Culture,” organized by the National Museum
of American Art, was held in conjunction with the
exhibition “Chicano Art: Resistance and Affirmation,

1965-1985.”
Summer

@ Research A field team led by a National Museum of
Natural History paleoanthropologist found the first
fossil skeletal evidence (a million-year-old molar tooth)
of hominids at Olorgesailie in Kenya since excavations
were initiated at this site by the Leakeys 50 years ago.

June

@ Volunteers
the National Museum of African Art’s nine-month

Twenty-four men and women completed

docent training program. The museum now has 88
weekday and weekend docents.

June

w Internships The Office of Fellowships and Grants
negotiated a second-year contract with the Quality

Education for Minorities Network to sponsor three

interns to come to the Institution.

June

mw Tour The Archives of American Art Detroit Council
organized the members’ art tour, “A Splash of Sunshine
in the Rockies,” to explore the landscapes, history, and
lifestyles that characterized some of the art of the
American West.

June

gw New Facility The Centre for the Study of Biological
Diversity opened on the campus of the University of
Guyana. A joint project of the National Museum of
Natural History, the university, and the World Wildlife
Fund, the center provides library, office, laboratory, and
collection space for studies of the flora and fauna now
under way by the museum's Biodiversity of the Guianas
project in collaboration with the university.

June

w Exhibition The Smithsonian Institution Traveling
Exhibition Service hosted the traveling exhibition “Art
as Activist: Revolutionary Posters from Central and
Eastern Europe” in the International Gallery. Former
Czech and Slovak Republic Ambassador Rita Klimova
gave the keynote address at a special reception.

June

@ Conference Participation Assistant Secretary for Exter-
nal Affairs Thomas E. Lovejoy represented the United
States as an alternate delegate at the United Nations
Conference on Environment and Development in Rio
de Janeiro.

June

m Conference The Office of the Assistant Secretary for Ex-
ternal Affairs cosponsored a conference with the United
Nations University, “The Definition and Measurement of
Sustainability: The Biophysical Foundations.”

June

mw Exhibition Videos Five videos produced by the Office
of Telecommunications accompanied the “American
Encounters” exhibition at the National Museum of
American History.

June

mw Publication Exhibiting Cultures: The Poetics and Politics
of Museum Display, edited by Ivan Karp of the National
Museum of Natural History and Steven Lavine, had its

third printing by Smithsonian Institution Press only a
year after publication. The book was drawn from a
Smithsonian—Rockefeller Foundation conference.

June

@ Travel Program Fifty-eight Contributing Members
of the Smithsonian National Associate Program
traveled to northern Japan and Russia’s far east on an
exclusive three-week study tour with Assistant
Secretary for the Sciences Robert Hoffmann and
William Fitzhugh and James Luhr of the National
Museum of Natural History.

June

w New Facility Architects and engineers were selected
to design and construct the National Museum of the
American Indian cultural resources facility in Suitland,
Maryland. The facility is expected to be completed in

1997.

June

@ Acquisition The National Museum of African Art ac-
quired a monumental Ubangi slit drum carved in the
form of a bush cow.

June 2-7

@ Conference Participation At the annual meeting of the
American Institute for Conservation of Historic and
Artistic Works held in Buffalo, New York, Conserva-
tion Analytical Laboratory staff and interns presented 12

Papers.

June 4

@ Luncheon Julie Harris, celebrated stage and screen
actress, was guest of honor at a luncheon and spoke to
National Portrait Gallery docents. Harris was in
Washington starring in the role of a docent in the play
Lettice and Lovage at the National Theater.

June 4

w Visitor Services Bus service between the National
Mall and the Anacostia Museum was inaugurated. The
bus also transports local school and civic groups to the
Anacostia Museum.

25
June 9

@ Conference Participation Anacostia Museum Director
Steven Newsome was a featured speaker at the “Politics

of Collecting” conference in Walsall, England.

June II

w Lecture Ata Woodrow Wilson Center Evening
Dialogue on “Federalism: Problems and Prospects of a
Constitutional Value,” Associate Justice Sandra Day O’-
Connor addressed the complex jurisdictional problems
raised by the pattern of American federalism.

June IT

w Exhibition “Crosscurrents of Modernism: Four Latin
American Pioneers,” an exhibition organized by the
Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden as part of the
Smithsonian’s Quincentenary observance, opened with
94 works by Mexican Diego Rivera, Uruguayan Joaquin
Torres-Garcia, Cuban Wifredo Lam, and Chilean-born
Matta. A bilingual (Spanish and English) catalog and
brochure were published for the exhibition. Educational
events included a scholarly symposium on June 27 and a
festival—family day celebration on September 5.

June IF-12
@ Conference “Analytical Image Processing in Art and
Archives,” organized by the Conservation Analytical
Laboratory and the National Archives and Records Ad-
ministration, brought together some 40 people from the
United States, Canada, and Europe who use digital
image processing in conservation, art history, and ar-
chaeology.

June 12~July 8

@ Workshop “Design and Planning of Museum
Facilities” was arranged by the Office of Museum
Programs for architects from Ghana working to restore
Elmina Castle.

June 5

w Benefit
al Museum of the American Indian was sponsored by

A celebrity art auction to benefit the Nation-

Washington Artworks, a volunteer group that includes
many members of Congress, their spouses, local busi-
ness leaders, and arts patrons. Mrs. George Bush served

26

as honorary chair, and Bob Schieffer of CBS News was
master of ceremonies. The auction netted approximately
$60,000.

June 16, June 30, July 7, July 21

w Lecture-Performances
summer lecture-concert series at Cooper-Hewitt, Na-

“De Generacién a Generacién,” a

tional Museum of Design explored the culture and tradi-
tions that give form and meaning to Mexican craft,
ritual, music, film, and dance.

June 17

@ Conservation The two-year conservation of Harmony
in Blue and Gold: The Peacock Room, the only surviving
interior scheme by American expatriate artist James
McNeill Whistler, was completed in the Freer Gallery
of Art. The project planning and execution involved the
Freer staff and conservators from the University of
Delaware/Winterthur Art Conservation Program. The
project was supported by the Getty Grant Program of
the J. Paul Getty Trust, the James Smithson Society,
and the Mars Foundation.

June 22

@ Acquisition The National Numismatic Collection of
the National Museum of American History acquired
from Frank Kovacs of San Mateo, California, a gift of
142 counterfeit dies of ancient Greek, Roman, and
Byzantine coins. The dies will allow identification and
documentation of counterfeit coins previously thought
authentic by experts and museums throughout the
world.

June 22

@ Celebration More than 5,000 people attended
Juneteenth ’92 at the Anacostia Museum, an annual ob-
servance of the day that slaves in Texas learned about
the signing of the Emancipation Proclamation. Live per-
formances, craft demonstrations, storytelling, and pup-
petry were featured.

June 22-26, July 22-24
w Summer Institute The National Science Resources
Center held two Elementary Science Leadership In-

stitutes for 29 participating teams of administrators, cur-
riculum and instruction supervisors, science
coordinators, master teachers, scientists, and business
and industry representatives to study the use of hands-
on curriculum units to improve elementary science
programs. Sponsors included Dow Chemical Company
Foundation and the Hewlett-Packard Company. For the
first time, two foreign teams—from Mexico and On-
tario, Canada—attended the institute.

June 22

w Summer Seminars The Office of Elementary and
Secondary Education offered 12 summer seminars for
teachers, the product of collaborations with five
museums, the Smithsonian Environmental Research
Center, and the Experimental Gallery. More than 250
teachers studied such topics as the arts of China, teach-
ing ecology, cross-cultural communications, and the

history of U.S. political protest.

June 23

w Exhibition Rare Sumatran tiger cubs, born in March,
went on exhibit in conjunction with the opening of the
National Zoo’s first children’s activity spot, Tiger Stop.

June 24

w Exhibition
Museum of American History's Columbus Quincenten-

“American Encounters,” the National

ary exhibition, opened. The exhibition uses historic and
contemporary artifacts, works of art, and audio and
video recordings of stories, music, and dance to explore
the cultures and coexistence of American Indian,
Hispanic, and Anglo-American peoples in the Rio
Grande Valley of New Mexico that began in 1539 with
the arrival of Spanish soldiers and missionaries.

June 25-July 5

w Festival The 26th annual Festival of American
Folklife, produced by the Center for Folklife Programs
and Cultural Studies, featured programs on the state of
New Mexico, “Creativity and Resistance: Maroon Cul-
ture in the Americas,” “The Changing Soundscape in
Indian Country,” and “Workers at the White House.”

June 29-August 7

mw Education Program
partnership between the National Museum of American
History and Washington, D.C., public schools, five high

In the continuing, innovative

school juniors from the Duke Ellington School of the
Arts inaugurated the museum’s pilot Young Inter-
preters Program, performing vignettes in the “Field to
Factory” exhibition, giving demonstrations throughout
the museum, and learning how to research and create
historically based characters for presentation in exhibi-

tion spaces.

June 30

@ Conference A conference on Maroon culture coor-
dinated by the Center for Folklife Programs and Cul-
tural Studies with the cooperation of the International
Center included leaders and scholars of Maroon com-
munities in Suriname, French Guiana, Jamaica,
Ecuador, Colombia, and Texas.

July

w Tour
Archives of American Art sponsored a members’ art

The West Coast Support Committee of the

tour of Seattle. Private collectors, museum directors,
and artists were hosts to Archives members on this
special “insiders’” tour.

July

@ Acquisition The Folkways Archives and Collections,
Center for Folklife Programs and Cultural Studies, ac-
quired the Lee Hayes papers, documentation from the
early days of Folkways Records. Hayes was a member of
the Almanac Singers and a key figure in the labor and
folk revival movement.

July

@ Publication The Smithsonian Institution Press book
Sharks in Question, by Victor Springer and Joy Gold, was
published in Japanese by Heibonsha Publications, Ltd.

July

@ Publication The Smithsonian Institution Press book
Tex Johnston: Jet-Age Test Pilot, by A. M. “Tex” Johnston
with Charles Barton, was published for the mass
market by Bantam.

July

m Grant The National Science Resources Center was

awarded a $4 million four-year grant from the National

27
Science Foundation through the National Academy of
Sciences in support of the Science and Technology for
Children project.

July

w Staff Appointment
the National Science Resources Center's first director of

Patricia McClure was appointed

information dissemination.

July

@ Education The Java History Trail opened to the public
at the Smithsonian Environmental Research Center. This
educational exhibit features American Indian and colonial
history along the shore of the Chesapeake Bay as well as
the effects of current land use. The trail consists of several
miles of paths, boardwalks, and exhibits.

July 1

@ Public Program A Boko Dei, a Guyanese Maroon
celebratory event, was coordinated by the Center for
Folklife Programs and Cultural Studies and held at
night on the National Mall with the cosponsorship of
the Anacostia Museum and the National Museum of
American History.

July 1

w Special Event
Evening with Katherine Dunham’ at the S. Dillon
Ripley Center. The program featuring the legendary

The Anacostia Museum sponsored “An

dancer, choreographer, and anthropologist was
moderated by Professor Yvonne Daniels, Smith College.
Dunham also participated in the Festival of American
Folklife.

July 1

w Fellowships
nounced the first recipients of the Fellowships in
Museum Practice, the only fellowship program in the

The Office of Museum Programs an-

country that funds museology research.

July 7

w Intern Program The Office of Museum Programs

began its annual Museum Careers Program for Smith-
sonian Interns, a four-week program offering informa-
tion on museum jobs, career planning, and job search.

28

July 8

w Meeting Native Americans from Latin America and
the National Museum of the American Indian staff held
a planning meeting for consultations with Latin
American constituencies planned for 1993.

July 12-14

w Workshop “Seeking Other Planetary Systems,” a
workshop on the role of stellar velocity measurements in
NASA's SETI programs, was held at the Smithsonian
Astrophysical Observatory.

July 13

= Grant The Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute
received a three-year grant for $75,000 from Citibank
Corporation for support of a training program at the
new Mpala Research Center in Kenya.

July 17-19

w Benefit The second annual Celebration for the
American Indian was held in Aspen, Colorado. This
three-day fund raiser for the National Museum of the
American Indian featured more than 50 award-winning
artists from around the country, traditional Indian
dancing, storytellers, children’s activities, and a Patrons
Dinner Dance and Art Auction.

July 20-24

w Residencies The Awards for Museum Leadership pro-
gram, a resident study program for people of color who
work in museums, was held by the Office of Museum

Programs.

July 23

w Agreement John Christy, Smithsonian Tropical Re-
search Institute assistant director for marine research,
and three Kuna chiefs representing the Kuna General
Congress signed the new agreement for the continua-
tion of research activities in the San Blas area, where
STRI maintains a field station.

July 24

Grant The Corporation for Public Broadcasting
awarded $55,000 to the Office of Telecommunications
and the Native American Public Broadcasting Consor-
tium for production of two special programs in the
“Spirits of the Present” radio series.

July 24

w Exhibition “Noble Heritage: Five Centuries of
Portraits from the Hosokawa Family” opened at the
National Portrait Gallery. This exhibition featured
family portraits from the 14th to the 19th centuries and
included significant associated objects such as armor,
costumes, and scrolls.

July 27

w@ Appointment Charles A. Hines of Fort McClellan,
Alabama, commanding general of the U.S. Army
Military Police and Chemical Centers, was appointed
director of the Office of Protection Services, effective
August 24.

July 28

w Performance The National Dance Institute gave a
performance in the Arthur Ross Terrace and Garden
of the Cooper-Hewitt, National Museum of Design.
The institute is the creation of Jacques D’Amboise
and features inner-city schoolchildren as dancers.

July 28-September 30

w Exhibition An exhibition of 20 Resident Associate
Program—commissioned art works, “From the Wall of
the Smithsonian,” was on view at the Children’s Hospi-
tal in Washington, D.C., in its first showing outside
the Smithsonian.

July 31

w Spaceflight The Tethered Satellite System (TSS-1), con-
ceived by the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory,
made its first flight aboard the space shuttle Atlantis,

August

mw Award Smithsonian magazine was awarded the Na-
tional Association of Black Journalists’ first place award
of excellence for “Outstanding Coverage of the Black
Condition” for the article “Against All Odds, Black
Seminole Won Their Freedom.”

August

w Publication The Smithsonian Book of Washington, D.C.
was released by Smithsonian Institution Press. The
book is a multiauthored look at the cultural, historical,
and political city of monuments and parks, of neighbor-
hoods and nature trails, and home to the Smithsonian.

August

@ Grant Smithsonian National Associate Program
fund-raising efforts resulted in a generous grant from
the California State Humanities Council for events in
nine California cities in 1993.

August

@ Fund Raising Net unrestricted income from a Smith-
sonian National Associate Program's spring 1992 fund-
raising appeal to Contributing Members regarding the
Smithsonian’s Native American programs exceeded
$200,000.

August

@ Contract The Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute
was awarded a one-year contract for more than $400,000
from the Marine Spill Response Corporation to continue
the critical research documenting the effects of oil pollu-
tion on tropical coral reefs and mangrove communities.

August

w Public Programs As part of a new series of public
programs at the National Museum of African Art titled
“Living Traditions,” Gilbert Bobbo Ahiagble, a Ewe
weaver from Ghana, spent a week at the museum
demonstrating Ewe weaving on a traditional narrow-
strip loom.

August 9

w Exhibition
works by artists who live in the Anacostia community

“Diverse Concepts,” an exhibition of

and surrounding neighborhoods, opened at the Anacos-
tia Museum.

August 9

w Exhibition “Ancient Japan,” the first loan exhibition
from Japan held at the Arthur M. Sackler Gallery,

29
opened to an enthusiastic public. Visitor interest in the
exhibition—which included many recently excavated
artifacts, some tentatively dated by archaeologists to
200,000 B.C.—was reflected in the gallery’s highest
monthly visitor count since 1989.

August 19

w Exhibit The National Zoo opened the new Cheetah
Conservation Station, a multipurpose exhibit that will
encourage the breeding and study of this rare species
and permit the public to see cheetahs chasing a high-

speed plastic lure.

August 20

w New Resource The Office of Printing and
Photographic Services opened the first on-line library of
Smithsonian digital photographs on the computer net-
work Internet.

August 26

w Special Event Washington, D.C., Mayor Sharon Pratt
Kelly was the guest of honor at the opening reception
for the Fifth National Convention of the Asian Amer-
ican Journalists Association, held at the Arthur M. Sack-
ler Gallery and cosponsored with the Gannett Co., Inc.

August 26-27

w@ Symposium The Conservation Analytical Laboratory
cosponsored “Polymers in Museums,” a symposium at
the 204th American Chemical Society national meeting
in Washington, D.C. Organic Chemist Mary T. Baker
organized the session, and Baker and CAL Director Lam-
bertus van Zelst were session chairs. Other CAL staff
were presenters and coauthors of papers.

September

w Exhibitions During fiscal year 1992, the Smithsonian
Institution Traveling Exhibition Service circulated 243
exhibitions in all 50 states, the District of Columbia,
Puerto Rico, and Canada.

September

mw Recording Release Roots of Rhythm and Blues: A Tribute
to Robert Johnson was released. Produced by Smith-
sonian/Folkways Recordings of the Center for Folklife

30

Programs and Cultural Studies and Columbia Records
from the 1991 Festival of American Folklife program,
was released.

September

w Pxblication Smithsonian Institution Press released
Frontiers of Flight, which highlights famous airplanes in
the National Air and Space Museum collection and is a
companion volume to the series of the same name,
which aired for 13 weeks on the Discovery Channel
beginning September 27.

September

w Publication Seeds of Change, edited by Herman Viola
and Carolyn Margolis and originally published by
Smithsonian Institution Press, was published in Spanish
by Educar Recreativa in Bogota, Colombia.

September

@ Publication The classic Smithsonian Institution Press
title, The First Book of Grasses, by Agnes Chase, was
published in Portuguese by the Instituto de Botanica in
Sao Paulo, Brazil.

September

w Milestone Participation in the Smithsonian National
Associate Program’s domestic study tours increased 8
percent over fiscal year 1991. Foreign study tour enroll-
ment increased 14 percent, and Smithsonian Odyssey
tour participation increased 40 percent.

September

w Milestone The Smithsonian National Associate
Program's Research Expedition division had a record-
breaking year with 20 teams of Associates participating
in scientific projects. A total of $202,000 was con-
tributed to the Smithsonian, along with more than
13,000 hours of volunteer labor.

September

w Exhibition The Smithsonian Tropical Research In-
stitute opened an exhibition, “Wildflowers of Soberania
National Park,” with photos by Nicholas Smythe that il-
lustrate the diversity of flowering plants in one of the
field sites used by STRI researchers.
September—November

w Exhibition “The Good, the Bad, and the Cuddly,” the

National Zoological Park's exhibition on human attitudes
toward animals, was open to the public in the Experimen-
tal Gallery, located in the Arts and Industries Building.

September I-2

w Exposition The National Air and Space Museum
presented the International Space Year Exhibition of
Robots for Exploring New Worlds (“Rover Expo”) with
co-hosts NASA and the Planetary Society. The expo,
which drew nearly 5,000 visitors on its first day, show-
cased the largest gathering of interplanetary rovers ever.

September 4

mw Milestone The National Air and Space Museum’s
“Star Trek” exhibition received its 500,000th visitor.

September 6

@ Training Program The Ghana Museum Training Pro-
gram, a six-month program in collaboration with the
Smithsonian’s Office of African and Caribbean Affairs,
began. Five individuals will receive training in exhibi-
tion design and production, museum education and
interpretation, and photographic methods.

September 11

w Film and Lecture Series The National Air and Space
Museum began its “Legend, Memory, and the Great
War in the Air” film and lecture series. The series,
which included lectures by John Keegan, John Morrow,
Jr., and Lynne Handley, was presented in conjunction
with the museum’s new World War I gallery.

September 11

@ Repatriation The Board of Trustees of the National
Museum of the American Indian voted to repatriate nine
objects associated with the Cranmer Kwakiutl Potlatch of
1921 and acquired by George Gustav Heye in 1922.

September 11

mw Publication Looking at Earth, by Priscilla Strain and
Frederick Engle of the National Air and Space
Museum's Center for Earth and Planetary Studies, was

published. The book presents images from spacecraft,
providing insight into the planet’s surface and environ-
ment and is based in part on research conducted for the
museum's exhibition gallery of the same name.

September I5

w Exhibition The National Zoo opened its new Reptile
Discovery Center, which features state-of-the-art interac-
tive exhibits in the Reptile House.

September 16

w Exhibition “Directions—Tim Rollins and K.O.S.:
Animal Farm” opened at the Hirshhorn Museum with a
talk by this widely acclaimed artist-teacher and the
Kids of Survival, his collaborative of mostly Latino
junior and senior high-school students from the South
Bronx, New York. During the year, the museum’s series
of small-scale “Directions” shows also featured works by
Brazilian-born sculptor Saint Clair Cemin, Spanish-
born installation artist Francesc Torres, and German

photographer Thomas Struth.

September 20-27

@ Special Events The Office of Development held four
major donor and volunteer events: a Regents dinner
honoring top donors and prospects; the Smithsonian Na-
tional Board annual meeting in Washington; the second
annual dinner dance for the Smithsonian Benefactors’
Circle, a distinguished recognition society for major In-
stitutional donors, and its honorary founder, Enid A.
Haupt; and the first annual meeting of the Smithsonian
Corporate Membership Program.

September 23

@ Fund Raising About 150 people attended a
fund-raising dinner in Atlanta for the National
Museum of American Indian. The benefit, which in-
cluded the dinner and a silent auction, was hosted by
Ken Rhyne (Tuscarora), president of Rhycof Design
Associates, and a volunteer committee member.

September 23

w@ Death Paul Edward Garber, historian emeritus and

Ramsey Fellow of the National Air and Space Museum,
died at age 93. He had been associated with the Smith-
sonian for 72 years.

31
September 25

w Exhibition “American Crafts: The Nation’s Collec-
tion” opened at the Renwick Gallery of the National
Museum of American Art, marking the gallery’s 20th
anniversary.

September 26

@ Cultural Diversity A dinner and reception cospon-
sored by the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Educa-
tion and Public Service with the Hispanic Association
of Colleges and Universities marked the beginning of
closer collaboration between the Smithsonian and
HACU.

32

September 27

@ Television Series “Frontiers of Flight,” a 13-part
television series examining the history of aviation and
early space flight, premiered. The series was produced
by the National Air and Space Museum and the Dis-
covery Channel.

September 30

w New Facility Construction was completed on the

new headquarters of the National Postal Museum at the
former Washington, D.C., post office adjacent to Union
Station. The museum is scheduled to open to the public

in July 1993.
Appendix I

Members of the Smithsonian Councils, Boards,

and Commissions,

September 30, 1992

Boards, councils, and commissions that serve the Institution as a whole are

listed first. Those that are connected with individual bureaus or offices are

listed in order according to the position of the sponsoring bureau or office

within the organization list on page 4.

Smithsonian Institution
Board of Regents

Hon. William H. Rehnquist, Chief
Justice of the Supreme Court of
the United States

Hon. J. Danforth Quayle, Vice
President of the United States

Members of The Senate

Hon. Edwin Jacob Garn
Hon. Daniel P. Moynihan

Hon. James R. Sasser

Members of the House of

Representatives

Hon. Joseph M. McDade
Hon. Norman Y. Mineta
Hon. Jamie L. Whitten

Citizen Members

Hon. David C. Acheson
Hon. Anne L. Armstrong
Dr. William G. Bowen
Hon. Jeannine Smith Clark
Prof. Ira Michael Heyman
Mr. Samuel C. Johnson

Dr. Homer A. Neal

Hon. R. James Woolsey

The Council of
Administrative and
Service Directors

Mr. Michael League, Chair
Mr. F. William Billingsley
Mr. Cliff Boocks

Ms. Devon Brown

Mr. John Coppola

Mr. Robert Dillman

Ms. Shireen L. Dodson
Dr. Cynthia Field

Ms. Ardelle G. Foss

Ms. Margaret C. Gaynor
Mr. Vincent J. Marcalus
Ms. Marilyn Marton
Mrs. Marie A. Mattson
Mr. William W. Moss
Mr. Robert L. Osborne
Mr. Robert P. Perkins
Ms. Judith Petroski

Mr. Peter G. Powers
Mr. Richard Siegle

Dr. Barbara J. Smith
Ms. Barbara Spraggins
Mr. James H. Wallace, Jr.
Ms. Carole Wharton
Ms. Jacqueline Young
Mr. Jack Zickafoose

Council of Bureau
Directors

Dr. Frank H. Talbot, Chair
Dr. Milo Cleveland Beach
Dr. Benjamin B. Beck

Dr. Elizabeth Broun

Mr. Joseph Carper

Ms. Carolyn Carr

Dr. David L. Correll

Mr. Spencer R. Crew

Mr. James T. Demetrion
Mrs. Gretchen Gayle Ellsworth
Mr. Douglas E. Evelyn
Mr. Alan Fern

Ms. Patricia L. Fiske

Ms. Susan A. Hamilton
Dr. Martin Harwic

Mr. Roger G. Kennedy
Mr. Donald S. Lopez

Ms. Sarah L. Newmeyer
Mr. Steven Newsome

Ms. Dianne H. Pilgrim
Ms. Sharon Reinckens

Mr. Charles J. Robertson, II
Dr. Michael H. Robinson
Dr. Ira Rubinoff

Mrs. Roberta W. Rubinoff
Mrs. Jean Salan

Dr. Irwin Shapiro

Dr. Stanwyn G. Shetler
Mrs. Wendy A. Stephens
Dr. James Tyler

Mr. Richard Wattenmaker
Mr. Stephen E. Weil
Mr. Samuel F. Wells
Mr. W. Richard West
Mrs. Sylvia H. Williams

Council of Information
and Education Directors

Mr. Joseph Carper, Chair
Ms. Ann P. Bay

Ms. Francine C. Berkowitz
Ms. Mary E. Case

Mr. James J. Chmelik
Ms. Anna R. Cohn

Dr. Zahava D. Doering
Ms. Madeleine Jacobs
Mr. Paul B. Johnson

Dr. Richard Kurin

Dr. Douglas M. Lapp

Mr. Felix C. Lowe

Mr. Vincent J. Marcalus
Mr. William W. Moss
Ms. Mary Grace Potter
Dr. Barbara J. Smith
Mrs. Janet W. Solinger
Dr. Lambertus Van Zelst
Mr. Ronald Walker

Mr. James H. Wallace, Jr.

Cultural Education
Committee

Ms. Peggy Cooper Cafritz, Chair
Mr. Luis R. Cancel

Ms. Dorothy B. Gilliam

Mr. Antonio Guernica

Mr. Stewart Kwoh

Mrs. Bruce K. MacLaury

Dr. Shirley M. Malcom

Dr. Shirley M. McBay

Ms. Cheryl McClenney-Brooker
Hon. Norman Y. Mineta

Prof. Sidney W. Mintz

Ms. Beatriz Otero

Ms. Juanita Tamayo Lott

Ms. Margaret Batchelor White
Ms. Patricia Zell

34

Secretary's Management
Committee

Secretary Robert McC. Adams
Ms. Alice Green Burnette
Mr. Joseph Carper

Mr. James C. Early

Mr. Tom L. Freudenheim
Ms. Margaret C. Gaynor
Mr. James M. Hobbins
Dr. Robert S. Hoffmann
Mr. Rick R. Johnson

Dr. Thomas E. Lovejoy
Mrs. Marie A. Mattson
Mr. Peter G. Powers

Ms. Nancy D. Suttenfield
Dr. Frank H. Talbot

Smithsonian African
American Association

Ms. Michelle Carr

Ms. Montrose R. Cones
Mr. John W. Franklin
Mr. Craig A. Reynolds

Smithsonian Institution
Council

Dr. Maxine F. Singer, Chair
Dr. Mary Frances Berry

Mr. Luis R. Cancel

Dr. Johnnetta B. Cole

Mr. Martin Friedman

Prof. Robert Garfias

Mr. David R. Gergen

Ms. Dorothy B. Gilliam
Prof. Arturo Gomez-Pompa
Prof. James W. Head, III
Prof. Roald Hoffmann

Dr. Michael Kammen

Mr. Miguel Leon-Portilla
Dr. Shirley M. Malcom
Prof. Robert M. May

Dr. Shirley M. McBay

Ms. Cheryl McClenney-Brooker
Prof. Matthew S. Meselson

Prof. Jaime E. Rodriguez
Dr. John Kuo Wei Tchen
Dr. Frederic Wakeman
Dr. John Walsh

Dr. Katharine J. Watson
Dr. Tomas Ybarra-Frausto

Smithsonian Institution
Women’s Council

Ms. Rebecca Browning
Ms. Arlyn Charles

Ms. Kathleen Fleming
Ms. Ellen Fluetsch

Ms. Nancy J. Fuller

Ms. Joanne Gigliotti
Ms. Kathleen S. Johnston
Ms. Janice Kaplan

Ms. Shoshana Rosenthal
Mrs. Heidi L. Schwartz
Ms. Ellen V. Sprouls
Ms. Julia Taylor

Ms. Juanita Tutt

Ms. Miriam Weissman
Ms. Sara Yorke

Smithsonian Internship
Council

Mrs. Judith H. Houston, Co-Chair
Mr. Bruce Morrison, Co-Chair
Mrs. Lori H. Aceto

Ms. Georgina de Alba

Ms. Lori Alperin

Ms. Victoria Avera

Mr. Arthur J. Breton

Ms. Tracy Caisse

Ms. Eva Cardarelli

Ms. Susan Mond Carpenter

Mrs. Linda Chick

Mrs. Patricia Chieffo

Ms. Montrose R. Cones

Mr. William E. Cox

Mr. Bruce Craig

Mrs. Elizabeth Beuck Derbyshire
Ms. Dorothy Dunn

Ms. Mary W. Dyer

Ms. Heather Ewing
Mrs. Zora M. Felton

Mr. John W. Franklin

Ms. Carol Gover

Ms. Julia Heiner

Mr. John Henderson

Mrs. Ruth Hill

Mr. Harry Jackson

Ms. Veronika O. Jenke
Mrs. Eileen Jones

Mr. Peter Kibbee

Ms. Manjula Kumar

Ms. Betty J. Lathern

Mr. Edward P. Lawson

Dr. Thomas E. Lowderbaugh
Ms. Eleanor McMillan

Mr. John P. Meehan

Ms. Liz Menz

Ms. Lauranne C. Nash

Ms. Karen Otiji

Ms. Arlene Reiniger

Mr. Argelis Roman

Mr. John C. Rumm

Ms. Barbara Russell

Ms. Mary Sangrey

Ms. Barbara K. Schneider
Mrs. Magdalene C. Schremp
Mr. Walter Sorrell

Ms. Lisa Margaret Stevenson
Ms. Diane Stewart

Ms. Cheryl Denise Taylor
Mr. William G. Tompkins
Dr. Wilcomb E. Washburn
Ms. Esther Washington
Ms. Betty J. Wingfield
Ms. Jeanne Zanke

Smithsonian Luncheon

Group

Mrs. Elizabeth Abell

Mr. Joe L. Allbritton

Mr. Martin Atlas

Mr. Kenneth H. Bacon

Mr. Albert J. Beveridge, III

The Honorable Robert O. Blake

Mr. Winthrop N. Brown
Mr. Louis W. Cabor
Mr. Carroll J. Cavanagh

The Honorable John E. Chapoton

Mr. Roger A. Clark
Mr. W. Graham Claytor, Jr.
Mr. Milo G. Coerper

Mr. Robert H. Craft, Jr.

Mr. Charles Benjamin Crisman, Jr.

Mr. Kent T. Cushenberry

Mr. J. Edward Day

Mrs. Charles J. DiBona

Mrs. Lacey Neuhaus T. Dorn

Mrs. Robert Duemling

Mr. LeRoy Eakin, III

Mr. George M. Elsey

Mrs. Norman Farquhar

Mr. Reed M. Fawell, III

Ms. Adrienne Arsht Feldman

Mr. Robert W. Fleming

Mr. Lee Merritt Folger

The Honorable Rockwood H. Foster

The Honorable Gerhard A. Gesell

Mr. Jackson B. Gilbert

Mr. Rufus K. Griscom

Mr. Patrick W. Gross

Mr. George W. Grosz

Mr. George E. Hamilton III

The Honorable Lloyd Hand

Dr. John C. Harper

Mr. John W. Hechinger, Sr.

Mr. John Roderick Heller, III

Mrs. Cynthia Helms

Mr. Luther H. Hodges, Jr.

Ms. Letitia Baldrige Hollensteiner

Mr. Fisher Howe

Mrs. Nancy Ignatius

Mrs. Mary D. Janney

Mrs. Donald Jeffries

Mr. Freeborn Jewett, Jr.

The Honorable Randolph A. Kidder

Mr. Alan G. Kirk, II

The Honorable Edward G. Lewis

Mrs. John D. Macomber

Mr. Martin FE. Malarkey, Jr.

The Honorable George C. McGhee

Right Reverend Monsignor Joseph
Joshua Mundell

Mr. Patrick Munroe

Dr. Thomas Nigra

Mr. William A. Nitze, II

Mr. William S. Norman

Mr. Mandell J. Ourisman

Lt. Col. Norman S. Portenoy, USAF
(Ret.)

Dr. Vincent E. Reed

The Honorable S. Dillon Ripley, II

The Honorable Paul G. Rogers

Mr. John W. Rollins, Jr.

Mrs. Vicki Sant

Mr. Christopher S. Sargent

Mr. B. Francis Saul, II

Rear Admiral Tazewell T. Shepard,
USN Ret.

Dr. Jayne B. Spain

Mr. Kenneth R. Sparks

The Honorable Samuel B. Sterrett

Mr. Henry M. Strong

Mr. Edward C. Sylvester, Jr.

The Honorable James W. Symington

Mrs. Russell E. Train

Count Wilhelm Wachtmeister

Mr. Anthony Welters

Mr. Wesley S. Williams, Jr.

The Honorable Edward F. Wilson

Admiral Jerauld Wright

Smithsonian National
Board

Mr. Lloyd G. Schermer, Chair

Active Members

Mrs. Robert M. Bass

Mr. Joaquin F. Blaya

Mr. William Jackson Bowen
Dr. John Brademas

Mr. Dan W. Burns

Mr. Cason J. Callaway, Jr.
Mrs. Cummins Catherwood, Jr.
Mr. Ivan Chermayeff

Mr. Landon T. Clay

Mrs. Dollie A. Cole

Mr. Thomas G. Cousins
Mrs. William H. Cowles, Jr.
Mrs. George C. Dillon

Mr. Peter E. Haas, Sr.

Mr. John M. Harbert, IT
Mr. Marion Edwyn Harrison, Esq.
Mr. Frank W. Hoch

Mrs. William Holmberg
Mr. Robert V. Lindsay

Mrs. Jean B. Mahoney

Mr. Antony M. Merck

Mrs. Anne Murray Morgan
Mr. John W. Morrison

Dr. George E. Mueller

Mr. Thomas J. Pritzker

Mr. David S. Purvis

Dr. Alvin N. Puryear

Mr. Robert Redford

Mr. Clive Runnells

Mrs. Arthur M. Sackler
Mr. Leveo V. Sanchez

Dr. Ivan Selin

Mrs. E. Maynard Smith
Mr. A. Alfred Taubman
Mrs. Richard L. Thompson
Mr. Jeffrey N. Watanabe
Mr. T. Evans Wyckoff

Honorary Members

Mr. William S. Anderson
Mr. Richard P. Cooley

Mr. Joseph F. Culiman, III
Mr. Charles D. Dickey, Jr.
Hon. Leonard K. Firestone
Mr. Alfred C. Glassell, Jr.
Mr. W. L. Hadley Griffin
Hon. William A. Hewitt
Mr. James M. Kemper, Jr.
Mr. Seymour H. Knox, III
Mr. Lewis A. Lapham
Hon. George C. McGhee
Hon. Sandra D. O'Connor
Hon. S. Dillon Ripley, II
Mr. Francis C. Rooney, Jr.
Hon. Thomas J. Watson, Jr.
Mrs. Gay EF Wray

Resource Members

Mr. George B. Bingham, Jr.
Mr. S. Charles Kemp

Mr. Thomas M. Keresey

Mr. Alexander K. McLanahan
Mr. Charles W. Schmidt

Mrs. James M. Walton

Steering Committee of the
Smithsonian American
Indian Council

Ms. Pablita T. Abeyta
Ms. Gaye Brown

Ms. Liz Hill

Ms. Lisa Fay Meredith
Ms. Helen Morrill

Mrs. Carol S. Nottingham
Ms. Alyce Sadongei

Mr. Robert W. Tenequer
Ms. Marjorie R. Wilkov
Mr. Jerry E. Williamson

36

Sciences

National Musuem of

Natural History National

Board

Mr. Robert H. Malott, Chair
Mr. Henry Loomis, Vice Chair
Mr. Xuan Chi Diep

Mr. G. Robert Durham
Mr. Arthur Gray

Mr. John S. Hendricks
Mr. David M. Hicks

Mr. D. Brainerd Holmes
Mrs. Jean Lane

Mr. John C. Meeker

Mr. Jeffrey W. Meyer

Dr. Homer A. Neal

Dr. David R. Pilbeam
Hon. S. Dillon Ripley, II
Hon. Nicolas M. Salgo
Mr. Donald M. Simmons
Dr. James W. Valentine
Dr. Warren H. Wagner, Jr.
Dr. David B. Wake

Mr. Milton H. Ward

Mr. Ronald H. Winston
Dr. E-an Zen

Ex-Officio

Secretary Robert McC. Adams
Dr. Frank H. Talbot

National Zoological Park
Resource Council

Dr. David Challinor, Chair

Council Members

Mr. Peter C. Andrews

Mr. Robert A. Bartlett

Mr. Richard D. Buckner
Hon. Jeannine Smith Clark
Mr. George A. Didden, III
Mrs. Joan C. Donner

Mrs. Elizabeth B. Frazier
Mrs. William Holmberg

Ms. Laura Howell

Mr. Withrow Weir Meeker
Mr. Richard J. Norman
Hoa. S. Dillon Ripley, If
Mr. Jeffrey R. Short, Jr.
Mrs. Judith Stockdale

Mr. Henry M. Strong

Mrs. Beatrix von Hoffman

Friends of the National
Zoo (FONZ) Board of
Dyrectors

Mr. William H. Berman

Mr. Richard D. Buckner
Mrs. Josephine Burman

Mrs. Miriam Carmack

Mr. George A. Didden, III
Mrs. Elizabeth B. Frazier

Mr. Thomas H. Goss

Mr. Paul B. Green

Mr. William D. Hawkins, III
Mrs. Betty Ann Kane

Ms. Suzanne Mink

The Honorable Robert A. Peck
Ms. Susan B. Perry

Mrs. Anne Shultz

Mr. Ross B. Simons

Mr. Kenneth R. Sparks

Mr. M.L. Sutherland

Mrs. Carole A. Valentine

Smithsonian Institution
Archives and Special
Collections Council

Mrs. Rachel M. Allen
Mr. James B. Byers
Ms. Mary E. Case

Ms. Cecilia A. Chin
Mr. John A. Fleckner
Ms. Christraud Geary
Mr. James R. Glenn
Mrs. Susan Gurney
Mr. Robert Harding
Ms. Colleen A. Hennessey
Mr. William L. Merrill
Mrs. Lillian B. Miller
Mr. C. Jeffrey Place

Mr. Marc Rothenberg
Ms. Mary E. Ruwell

Mr. Rass B. Simons
Prof. Barbara B. Smith
Dr. Barbara J. Smith

Mr. Thomas F. Soapes
Ms. Linda A. Thrift

Mr. James H. Wallace, Jr.
Ms. Courtney Wilkerson
Dr. Judith K. Zilczer

Smithsonian Institution
Libraries User Advisory
Committee

Mr. Spencer R. Crew
Dr. Rex M. Ellis

Mr. Frank Ferrari

Ms. Portia James

Mrs. Sally Maran

Dr. Nancy L. Matthews
Mr. Peter Seitel

Dr. Barbara J. Smith
Mr. Victor G. Springer

Arts & Humanities

Experimental Gallery
Advisory Committee

Dr. Claudine Brown

Ms. Kimberly Camp

Ms. Amina Dickerson
Ms. Elaine Heumann Gurian
Dr. Ivan Karp

Mr. Steven D. Lavine

Ms. Nilda Peraza

Dr. Sydney Perkowitz
Dr. Michael H. Robinson
Mr. James Sims

Mr. Ed Spriggs

Dr. Jeffrey Stewart

Dr. George Tressel

Mr. Shawn Wong

Anacostia Museum
Board of Trustees

Mrs. Cecelia Matthews, Chair
Mrs. Helen Allen

Mr. Stanley Anderson
Mr. Grover Bulluck
Ms. Irene Carter

Mrs. Marie Dale

Mrs. Alice B. Finlayson
Mrs. Iris Harris

Mrs. Concha Johnson
Mr. Alton Jones

Mrs. Theresa Jones
Mrs. Della Lowery

Mr. David Lyons

Mrs. Caryl Marsh

Mrs. Alenitha J. Qualls
Mrs. Edith Shephard

Archives of American Art
Board of Trustees

Mrs. Otto L. Spaeth, Chair Emeritus
Mrs. Keith S. Wellin, Chair

Hon. Max N. Berry, President

Mr. Hugh Halff, Jr., Vice President
Mrs. Richard Roob, Vice President
Mrs. Robert FE. Shapiro, Vice President
Mrs. Dana M. Raymond, Secretary
Mrs. Arthur A. Feder, Treasurer
Dr. Charles Blitzer

Mr. Eli Broad

Mr. Gerald Buck

Mr. Gilbert S. Edelson

Mrs. Iona Maria Ertegun

Mr. Miles Q. Fiterman

Mrs. Eva Garza Laguera

Mr. John K. Howat

Dr. Helen I. Jessup

Mr. Manrice H. Katz

Mrs. Dona S. Kendall

Mr. Alan D. Levy

Mr. Meredith J. Long

Mr. Richard Manney

Mr. Richard A. Manoogian

Miss Julienne M. Michel

Mrs. Vivian Potamkin

Mrs. Georgette N. Rosekrans

Mrs. Marilyn B. Schlain

Mr. Alan E. Schwartz

Mr. A. Alfred Taubman

Mr. R. Frederick Woolworth
Mrs. Barbara R. de Marneffe

Honorary Trustees

Dr. and Mrs. Irving F. Burton
Mr. Howard W. Lipman
Mr. Richard J. Schwartz

Founding Trustees

Mr. Lawrence A. Fleischman

Ex-Officio

Secretary Robert McC. Adams
Mr. Tom L. Freudenheim
Dr. Milton W. Brown

Arthur M. Sackler
Visiting Committee

Dr. Charles Blitzer, Chair

Mrs. John B. Bunker

Mrs. Cynthia Helms

Mrs. James R. Lilley

Mr. Porter A. McCray

The Honorable Norman Y. Mineta
Mrs. Arthur M. Sackler

Dr. Yoshiaki Shimizu

Mr. Michael R. Sonnenreich

Freer Visiting Committee

Mrs. Jackson Burke

Mr. Willard G. Clark
Prof. Marvin Eisenberg
Mr. John Gilmore Ford
Mrs. Katharine Graham
Mr. Joseph E. Hotung
Mrs. Ann R. Kinney
Mr. Rogerio Lam

Dr. Sherman Lee

Mr. Porter A. McCray
Hon. Norman Y. Mineta
Prof. Frederick W. Mote

37
Mrs. Elizabeth Moynihan
Dr. Edith Porada

Prof. Martin Powers
Prof. John M. Rosenfield
Dr. Priscilla Soucek

Cooper-Hewitt Museum

Board of Trustees

Mr. Donald Bruckmann, Chair

Mrs. Joan K. Davidson, Vice Chair

Members

Mrs. Karen Johnson Boyd
Mrs. Joan K. Davidson
Mrs. Betty Evans

Ms. Joanne du Pont Foster
Mr. Tom L. Freudenheim
Mr. Harmon H. Goldstone
Mr. M. Richard Hayden
Mr. August Heckscher
Mr. Kenneth Miller

Mr. Arthur Ross

Mr. Robert Sarnoff

Prof. Sue Jane Smock

Ex-Officio

Secretary Robert McC. Adams

Hirshhorn Museum and

Sculpture Garden Board of

Trustees

Dr. Robert McC. Adams
Mr. Edward R. Broida
Mr. Robert T. Buck, Jr.
Ms. Peggy C. Davis

Mr. Jerome L. Greene
Mr. Robert Lehrman
Mr. Sydney Lewis

Mr. Justice William H. Rehnquist

Mr. Robert Rosenblum
Mr. Jerry I. Speyer

38

National Air and Space
Museum Advisory Board

Mr. Theodore C. Barreaux

Mr. Barry L. Harris

Mr. Samuel W. Keller

Gen. Merrill A. McPeak

Rear Admiral Riley D. Mixson
Mr. Peter F. Schabarum

Mr. James Thompson

Lt. Gen. Duane A. Wills

Research and Collections

Advisory Committee

Dr. Richard Kohn, Chairman
Dr. Robin Brett

Mr. James A. Burnham
Mr. Don Cumberland
Mr. Jack Hilliard

Ms. Marie C. Malaro
Prof. Otto Mayr

Mr. Ed McKellar

Prof. John Morrow

Mr. Dennis Parks

Ms. Helen W. Samuels
Mr. Alfred J. Shortt
Mr. Joseph Veverka
Mr. Spencer R. Weart

Public Programming
Advisory Committee

Dr. Hans O. Andersen

Lt. Gen. Benjamin O. Davis
Mr. Thomas Hoving

Ms. Linda M. Johnson

Mr. Louis R. Purnell

Mr. Harold K. Skramstad, Jr.
Mr. Michael Spock

Dr. Sondra Gayle Stein, Ph.D.
Ms. Marie Tibor

Dr. Mitchell Waldrop

National Musuem of

American Art Commission

Mr. Wilbur L. Ross, Jr., Chair

Mr. Ronald D. Abramson, Vice Chair

Mr. Norman Bernstein
Mr. Frederick Brown

Mr. Wendell K. Castle
Mr. Edwin I. Colodny
Dr. Wanda M. Corn

Mrs. Ann Cousins

Mr. Barney A. Ebsworth
Mrs. Daniel Fraad

Dr. Patricia Frost

Mrs. Margaret Garrett
Mrs. Linda Lichtenberg Kaplan
Mr. Jacob Lawrence

Mr. Melvin Lenkin

Mr. Jacques E. Lennon
Mr. Owen M. Lopez

Mrs. Nan Tucker McEvoy
Mr. Charles Parkhurst
Mr. David S. Purvis

Mr. Frank K. Ribelin

Mr. Richard J. Schwartz

Ex-Officio Members

Dr. Robert McC. Adams
Mr. James T. Demetrion

Emeritus Members

Mr. Walker Hancock
Mr. Charles Sawyer

National Musuem of

African Art Commission

Prof. David C. Driskell, Chair
Mr. James L. Hudson, Vice Chair
Mrs. Frieda Rosenthal, Vice Chair

Ex-Officio

Secretary Robert McC. Adams
Mr. Tom L. Freudenheim

Mr. Charles B. Benenson
Hon. John Conyers, Jr.

Mr. John A. Friede
Mrs. Frances Humphrey Howard
Mrs. Helen Kuhn

Mr. Brian S. Leyden

Dr. Michael L. Lomax

Mr. Robin B. Martin

The Honorable Frank E. Mass
Mr. Robert H. Nooter

Prof. Robert Farris Thompson
Hon. Walter E. Washington

National Museum of the
American Indian Board of

Trustees

Mr. Alvin M. Josephy, Jr., Chair
Mr. Vine Deloria, Jr., Vice Chair
Dr. Robert McC. Adams

Dr. Keith Basso

Dr. Ernest L. Boyer

Hon. Barber B. Conable, Jr.
Mr. Tom L. Freudenheim
Ms. Suzan Shown Harjo

Dr. Norbert S. Hill, Jr.

Dr. Frederick E. Hoxie

Hon. Daniel K. Inouye

Dr. Jennie Joe

Dr. Clara Sue Kidwell

Dr. N. Scott Momaday

Mr. Waldemar A. Nielsen
Mr. Allen V. Pinkham

Ms. Ann R. Roberts

Mr. David Rockefeller

Mr. Harold D. Salway

Dr. Helen M. Scheirbeck

Dr. David Hurst Thomas

Dr. Arcuro Warman

Hon. Thomas R. White

Ms. Janine Pease Windy-Boy
Dr. Rosita Worl

National Portrait Gallery
Commission

Hon. Jeannine Smith Clark, Chair
Mr. Thomas M. Evans

Dr. Stephen Jay Gould

Ms. Marta Istomin

Prof. David Levering Lewis

Prof. R. W. B. Lewis

Hon. Robert B. Morgan

Prof. Barbara Novak

Mr. Earl Alexander Powell, III

Ex-Officio

Secretary Robert McC. Adams
Hon. William H. Rehnquist

Education and
Public Service

Folklife Advisory Council

Dr. Roger Abrahams

Mr. Jacinto Arias

Ms. Jane Beck

Pat Jasper

Ms. Barbara K. Kirshenblatt-Gimblett
Dr. Bernice Johnson Reagon
Mr. Jol.a Roberts

Ms. Carol Robertson

Mr. Gilbert Sprauve

Dr. John Kuo Wei Tchen
Mr. Ricardo Trimillos

Dr. Carlos Velez-Ibanez

Folkways Advisory Board

Mr. Michael Asch
Ms. Marilyn Averett
Mr. Ossie Davis

Mr. Mickey Hart
Mr. Rene Lopez

Ms. Carol Robertson
Mr. Pete Seeger

Ms. Toshi Seeger

National Postal Museum
Coordinating Committee

Mr. Tom L. Freudenheim
Mr. Roger G. Kennedy

Mr. Gordon C. Morison
Mr. Robert Setrakian
Ms. Nancy D. Suttenfield

National Science Resource
Center Advisory Board

Dr. David Sheetz, Chair
Dr. Bruce M. Alberts
Dr. Albert Baez

Dr. Majory Baruch

Ms. Ann P. Bay

Ms. DeAnna Banks Beane
Dr. F. Peter Boer

Ms. Martha A. Darling
Dr. Hubert Dyasi

Dr. James Ebert

Mr. Douglas E. Evelyn
Dr. Robert M. Fitch
Mr. Samuel Fuller

Mr. Charles Hardy

Dr. Martin Harwit

Dr. Robert M. Hazen
Dr. Robert S. Hoffmann
Ms. Ann Kahn

Mr. Manert Kennedy
Ms. Sarah Lindsey

Dr. Thomas E. Lovejoy
Ms. Phyllis Marcuccio
Dr. Lynn Margulis

Me. William McCune, Jr.
Dr. Philip Morrison
Ms. Phylis Morrison
Dr. Philip Needleman
Dr. Jerome Pine

Dr. Frank Press

Dr. Wayne Ransom

Dr. Peter Raven

Ms. Lynn Strieb

Dr. Melvin Webb

Dr. Paul H. Williams
Ms. Karen Worth

Ex-Officio Members

Robert McC. Adams, Secretary,
Smithsonian Institution

Mr. James C. Early, Assistant Secretary
for Public Service, Smithsonian
Institution

Mr. Philip Smith, Executive Officer,
National Academy of Sciences

39
Women’s Committee of the
Smithsonian Associates

Mrs. Richard L. Thompson, Chair
Mrs. Thomas B. Cookerly, Vice-Chair
Mrs. Fritz Daguillard, Secretary

Mrs. Doniphan Carter, Treasurer

Active Members

Mrs. David C. Acheson

Mrs. Martin Atlas

Mrs. Philip S. Bowie

Mrs. I. Townsend Burden, III
Mrs. George H. W. Bush
Mrs. Thomas J. Camp, Jr.
Mrs. H. Hollister Cantus
Mrs. Frank B. Clay

Mrs. Richard Cobb

Mrs. Brian Collins

Mrs. Louis J. Cordia

Mrs. William Gruman Cox
Mrs. Willis Dale Crittenberger, Jr.
Mrs. J. Edward Day

Mrs. Avery Faulkner

Mrs. Bernard Fensterwald, Jr.
Mrs. Paul R. Gibson

Mrs. John W. Gill

Mrs. William F. Gorog

Mrs. Patrick W. Gross

Mrs. Karl G. Harr, Jr.

Mrs. Henry L. Heymann
Mrs. Stanford R. Hicks

Mrs. Walter J. Hodges

Mrs. James P. Holden

Mrs. Vernon Wilson Holleman, Jr.
Mrs. Richard C. Hotvedt
Mrs. Enid T. Johnson

Mrs. James M. Johnston, III
Mrs. George W. Jones

Mrs. Godfrey W. Kauffmann
Ms. Polly Krieger

Mrs. Keith M. Lindgren
Mrs. Bruce K. MacLaury
Mrs. William S. Mailliard
Mrs. Alexander M. Maish
Mrs. Arthur K. Mason

Mrs. Lucio A. Noto

Mrs. Horace White Peters
Mrs. Charles L. Poor

Mrs. Thomas Malcolm Price
Mrs. C. Michael Price

Mrs. S. Dillon Ripley

Mrs. Robert S. Ross, Jr.

Mrs. William C. Rountree
Mrs. John A. Sargent

Mrs. Leonard Silverstein
Mrs. Henry P. Smith, III
Mrs. Michael P.W. Stone
Mrs. Frank H. Talbot
Mrs. Robert L. Walsh, Jr.
Mrs. Charles Swan Weber
Mrs. Edwin M. Wheeler
Mrs. Philip C. White

Ms. Flossie Wisner

Mrs. Robert D. van Roijen

Affiliated

Organizations

The John F. Kennedy
Center for the Performing
Arts

Board of Trustees

Honorary Chairs

Mrs. George Bush

Mrs. Ronald W. Reagan
Mrs. Jimmy Carter

Mrs. Gerald R. Ford
Mrs. Richard M. Nixon
Mrs. Lyndon B. Johnson
Mrs. Aristotle Onassis

Officers

Mr. James D. Wolfensohn, Chairman

Mr. James H. Evans, Vice Chairman

The Honorable Leonard L. Silverstein,
Vice Chairman

Mrs. Jean Kennedy Smith, Secretary

Ms. Charlotte Woolard, Assistant
Secretary

Mr. Paul G. Stern, Treasurer

Mr. Henry Strong, Assistant Treasurer

Mr. Kenneth M. Kaufman, General
Counsel

Mr. William Becker, Associate Counsel

Members Appointed by the
President of the United States

Mr. Philip F Anschutz

Mrs. Bennett Archambault
Mrs. Howard H. Baker
Mrs. William Cafritz

Mr. Ralph P. Davidson

Mr. Kenneth M. Duberstein
Mr. James H. Evans

Mrs. Max M. Fisher

Mrs. Joseph B. Gildenhorn
Mr. Lionel Hampton

Mrs. Helen Joan Holt

Ms. Caroline Rose Hunt
Mr. Donald M. Koll

The Honorable Melvin R. Laird
Mr. James A. McClure

Mrs. Abraham A. Ribicoff
Ms. Joy A. Silverman

Mr. Leonard L. Silverstein
Mrs. Jean Kennedy Smith
Mr. Roger B. Smith

Mr. Dennis Stanfill

The Honorable Roger L. Stevens
Mr. Jerry Weintraub
Mr.James D. Wolfensohn

Members Ex Officio Designated by
Act of Congress

The Honorable Louis Sullivan, Secretary
of Health and Human Services

The Honorable Lamar Alexander,
Secretary of Education

The Honorable Henry E. Catto, Jr.,
Director, U.S. Information Agency

The Honorable Edward M. Kennedy

The Honorable George J. Mitchell

The Honorable Mark O. Hatfield

The Honorable Joseph M. McDade

The Honorable Charles Wilson

The Honorable Sidney R. Yates

The Honorable Sharon Pratt Kelly,
Mayor, District of Columbia

Robert McC. Adams, Secretary,
Smithsonian Institution

Dr. James H. Billington, Librarian of
Congress

Mr. J. Carter Brown, Chairman of the
Commission of Fine Arts

The Honorable James M. Ridenour,
Director, National Park Service

Ms. Carol Hill Lowe, Director, D.C.
Department of Recreation and Parks
Founding Chairman
Mr. Roger L. Stevens

Honorary Trustees

The Honorable Ralph E. Becker
Mrs. J. Clifford Folger

The Honorable J. William Fulbright
Mrs. Albert D. Lasker

Mrs. Jouette Shouse

Mr. Henry Strong

Mr. Lew R. Wasserman

National Gallery of Art
Board of Trustees

Dr. Franklin D. Murphy, Chair
Mr. Alexander Laughlin

Mr. Robert H. Smith

Mr. John R. Stevenson, Esq.
Mrs. Ruth Carter Stevenson

Ex-Officio

Hon. William H. Rehnquist, Chief
Justice of the Supreme Court of the
United States

Hon. James A. Baker, III, Secretary of
State

Hon. Nicholas F. Brady, Secretary of the
Treasury

Robert McC. Adams, Secretary of the
Smithsonian Institution

Reading Is
Fundamental, Inc.

Officers

Mrs. Elliot Lee Richardson, Chair
Mrs. Ruth Graves, President

Mr. Edward A. Fox, Vice President
Mr. Samuel B. Ethridge, Secretary
Mrs. Jean Head Sisco, Treasurer

Board of Directors

Ms. Loretta Barrett

Mr. Leo Beebe

Mr. Daniel Burke

Mr. James C. Curvey

Ms. Patricia Diaz Dennis
Mr. Lloyd Derrickson
Mr. Robert S. Diamond
Mr. Charles Harris

Mrs. Ruth S. Holmberg
Mrs. Kathryn W. Lumley
Dr. Floretta McKenzie
Mr. Edward J. Meade, Jr.
Ms. Lois D. Rice

Mrs. Lynda Johnson Robb
Mr. Arthur White

Advisory Council

Mrs. George H. W. Bush, Honorary
Chair

Mr. Robert McC. Adams

Mr. Arthur Ashe, Jr.

Ms. Letitia Baldrige

Mrs. Evan Bayh

Mrs. Ruth C. Boorstin

Mr. Jack Brown, Esq.

Mr. Charles A. Cumello

Mr. Jimmy Dean

Ms. Shelley Duvall

Mr. Edward E. Elson

Mr. Julian T. Euell

Mr. Walter A. Haas, Jr.
Mrs. Mary Zeiler Haft

Mr. Andrew Heiskell

Mr. Lawrence A. Hough
Mr. Lee Iacocca

Mr. W. Thomas Johnson
Dr. Elizabeth Karnes

Ms. Ann Landers

Ms. Natalie Lang

Mr. John T. Leatham

Ms. Ann R. Leven

Mr. Vincent MacDonnell
Hon. Robert §. McNamara
Dr. Peter P. Muirhead

Mr. Eugene F. Rowan, Esq.
Mrs. Mary Ann Stewart
Mr. Alberto Vitale

Mr. Donald Wilson

Ms. Oprah Winfrey

Woodrow Wilson
International Center for
Scholars Board of Trustees

Mr. William J. Baroody, Jr., Chair
Mr. Dwayne O. Andreas, Vice Chair
Hon. Lamar Alexander

Mr. J. Burchenal Ault

Hon. James A. Baker, III

Dr. James H. Billington

Hon. Henry E. Catto, Jr.

Mrs. Lynne V. Cheney

Dr. Gertrude Himmelfarb

Dr. Carol Iannone

Mr. Eli S. Jacobs

Mr. John S. Reed

Hon. S. Dillon Ripley, I

Mr. William L. Saltonstall

Mr. Samuel K. Skinner

Hon. Louis W. Sullivan

Mr. Robert H. Tuttle

Mr. Don W. Wilson

4I
2PpPes ‘W INyWWY ‘OSV

(‘areustasa 7661 sea [eosty stya aUTUaIap 03 pasn sem Yor “usarsds Burpdwres ayqutjas 8 pedojaaap sey ooZ 243
31 sayeur ‘saoueyua Je[NIIYaa pue UBIJIsaped yBraAas s3I PUe SIITYxXe JOOp3no PUB JOOPU! s3f YITAA ‘yzeq 243 Jo amyeu Azaa ay]) 000‘

usoUYssIH ‘OSWH ‘Usisaq jo wmasny] [euoreyy ‘qaimapy-sedoop ‘HD

£7B‘988°97
oS‘ Fr9'1
L60‘LIE
6SEITI
fervor
696‘ov
blLg‘thL's
LLS‘SEb
196‘€LE
gtz‘ogs‘g
ogh‘eZg
6£5‘Lg
Leiter's
L6L11€

t0o'T$

SE ei i a il eau nan mene it ASIDE ces

jeaoL

gig‘ooL'I
TS8‘9EI
oz$‘or
6476
ger'div
gzr‘z
Li1‘Lot
obL‘oft
6Lb'77
€L1‘76$
67£'6S
£66'S
Sog'ZZ
$$g‘9z
gZi‘z

16 dag

tS0'SIb‘E
gEI'eez
Lez‘Li
ghg'6
oSL'th6
66h'¢
9L6‘g¥9
0L6‘6£
os Lith
toS‘Zgr't
99188
L6v‘g
o9S‘IvI
Sir'sh
bho'v

16 Sny

Qtt‘ogt‘t
900‘trz
996‘Lt
Igl‘Ol
tvo‘'sog
££9‘t
off‘90Z
$r9'gt
0$9‘9r
o7g‘907'T
goZ‘g6
tHe VI
TE9‘OPI
TTE‘O£
“8
26 [nf

Leo‘ Lrg‘t
TOI'vgi
19Q‘@7
895‘8
t$6'SL9
g6S‘t
60£'S6S
ISt‘ge
LLg‘zt
LZEL‘€€g
912'6g
9£8'9
GfE‘git
$9$‘9%
zeit

76 un{

ZOO AVAK [OIE Ut Satda]]VL) PUY SULMASMYN] UOLINILISUT UDLUOSGIIUY OF SUBSEA

‘Surpying seizasnpuy pus sy ‘pry ‘umesny] Bl3sozeUY ‘WV {ueIpuy UBTJaury ay3 jo wasn] [EUONBN ‘TVWN
umasny [BUOleN ‘HVWIN ‘Mares reso yeuolseNy pus sy uvoToury jo Whasnyjy Jeuoren ‘Oa2eVV ‘whasny] aoedg pus sry [euoneN ‘WSVN ‘UV

oLt'sr Lt

009‘Z91
ITT‘It
o$L‘6
g0g‘6bZ
OLE'E
t10'tb9
9Lb‘or
91S‘6E
bLG‘SEg
96L‘t6
£90‘9
gZo‘vol
LLY‘gz
gore

16 Avy

orb‘ Lez‘t

b6£‘g07
gS1‘Sz
£ro'tl
PLt‘org
S60'F
¥729'978
g9tL‘ob
ggo‘6t
SSE‘€00'r
£9$‘96
68's
o19‘tZI
667'SE
Fiz‘

76 dy

167‘791'T

1$9‘611
££6°61
gfg'6
Lut‘ovs
9tr'b
607‘99F
t6L‘bE
6Sg‘o£
6gi‘€z7Z
Stv‘OL
1$0‘9
601'F6
gt ‘ze
b6E'v

16 EW

£06‘79£'I

$gi'69
LLY‘€1
£90‘6
61S‘Zot
Lit
gbt‘ogz
LLE‘o$
LES‘LZt
Pre‘ gG£
ggh‘Zr
ob9‘s
1£6°¥9
bor'ti
$o9‘s

16 gay

‘Ay[MIYIP sty2 2WIOIIIAO OF, *SI13S1TeIS JOIISIA IFVX2 UTBIGO 0} aqqissod ust

LS1€ st yIVq Te21TojooZ PeuCTIBY B43 03 sJOIISIA JO JoqUMU Paywurtisy

‘poued Surssodas s1y3 Surmp pasop> sem iy jo Asaype 3933,J OY],

LLO6‘LENI

og6‘es
LSESE
009'8
6bh ‘ze
gree
Lob‘9g0t
gib‘gz
916‘61
g90'tkt
US ‘HE
brig
gtl‘or
9$o‘L1
gto't

76 uel

oft‘ iTh'I

668'79
betty
Sor‘ol
gis‘gth
6Li‘E
£1$‘Sot
617‘S7
9£6‘61
rg‘bot
TOT gh
£96'9
960'r9
9LS‘Li
toll

16 229q

{(ajasep) Surpymg Uormnaasuy UeTUOsYsIUWg ‘[g ‘aqua Aa[dry UOT! 's ‘DU! Aaaypeg yorauay ‘Oy ‘Gorsipy pemnaeyy Jo wmasnyy TeuorseN ‘HNN

tL Pl
06$‘9F
of6‘oI
gor‘69$
LLO‘E
bu PhS
gor‘zt
obt‘Zz
TBR‘TIS
86569
obt‘Z
o06L'tL
oZ£o‘gi

£711

16 AON,

zw xtpueddy

/S9JON]

‘AalTeD

{uaprey aanidjndg pus wmasnyy

99116
£SLve
verti
o$1‘Z6r
o19‘t
ots‘ Z6¢
99st
£$1'Sz
T9E6RS
Lo6‘$Z
f€giZ
19b‘Zg
076‘61
€fg‘t

16190

{As03stP{ UBrIJawWy jo
uestyy jo wasn [eUolTeN] “WI VIAIN *840/77108449 V

Wee eee Se 8 es

LLo‘1og't —g6 v6 Zg'T

[esol
Is
ou
OU

a
+
Appendix 3

Academic, Research Training,
and Internship Appointments
and Research Associates in

Fiscal Year 1992

The first section of this Appendix lists recipients of fel-
lowships and other appointments awarded to scholars
and advanced students under the auspices of the Office
of Fellowships and Grants. Students and museum
professionals who held museum internships or par-
ticipated in special projects administered by the Office
of Museum Programs are listed in the second section.
The third section contains a listing of Smithsonian Re-
search Associates.

Academic and Research
Training Appointments

The Smithsonian offers, through the Office of Fellow-
ships and Grants, research and study appointments to
visiting scientists, scholars, and students. The appoin-
tees are provided access to the Institution’s facilities,
staff specialties, and reference resources. The persons—
listed by bureau or office—in this Appendix began
their residencies between October I, 1991, and Septem-
ber 30, 1992, and have been in residence for three
months or longer. Predoctoral and Postdoctoral Fellows,
Visiting Scientists or Scholars, and other awardees and
participants in special programs are so listed. Listed for
each Fellow or Visitor is the institution where each
received, or expects to receive, a degree or the home
university or institution; a brief description of the
project undertaken at the Smithsonian; the Smithsonian
advisor; and dates of residency.

Sciences

Conservation Analytical Laboratory

Meredith Aronson, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Arizona.
“Study of Ceramic Technology of Late Formative West
Mexico,” with Pamela Vaniver, from November 1, 1991 to
October 31, 1992.

Susan T. Childs, Postdoctoral Fellow, Boston University.
“Iron, Copper, and Socio-political Change in Southeastern
Zaire,” with Ronald Bishop and James Blackman, from
September 1, 1992 to August 31, 1993.

Marina Delaney, Postgraduate Conservation Intern, Univer-
sity of Delaware. “Study of Spanish Colonial Painting
Methods and Techniques,” with Roland Cunningham,
from September 1, 1992 to August 31, 1993.

Elyse Klein, Postgraduate Conservation Intern, Queen’s
University. “The Consolidation of Matte Paint Films on
Contemporary Paintings,” with Roland Cunningham, from
October 1, 1991 to September 30, 1992.

Holly Lundburg, Postgraduate Conservation Intern, Institute
of Archaeology (London). “Archaeological Conservation
Techniques On-site and in CAL,” with Carol Grissom,
from September 7, 1992 to September 6, 1993.

Linda Stathoplos, Visiting Scientist, University of Rhode Is-
land. “Examination of Fish Bone Extracts for the Presence
of Noncollagenous Proteins,” with Noreen Tuross, from
November 1, 1991 to April 30, 1992.

National Museum of Natural History

Bernardo Arriaza, Postdoctoral Fellow, Arizona State Univer-
sity. “The Study of Inflammatory Arthritis in Prehistoric
Americans,” with Donald Ortner, from June 1, 1992 to
May 31, 1993.

Susan Arter, Visiting Scientist, George Washington Univer-
sity. “The Powers Phase Project II,” with Melinda Zeder,
from October 1, 1991 to September 30, 1993.

Garrick Bailey, Senior Postdoctoral Fellow, University of
Tulsa. “Osage Cosmology and Ritual: The Selected Works
of Francis La Flesche,” with William Sturtevant, from
January 1, 1992 to August 31, 1992.

Elizabeth Balser, Graduate Student Fellow, Clemson University.
“Development and Structure of the Spongy and Axial Organ
in the Larval Crinoid, Comactinia echinoptera,” with Mary
Rice, from November 10, 1991 to January 17, 1992.

David Bogler, Graduate Student Fellow, University of Mis-
souri. “Phylogeny of Dasylirion (Agavaceae) and Related
Genera Based on 18S and 26S Ribosomal RNA Sequences,”
with Elizabeth Zimmer, from January 13, 1992 to March 23,
1992.

43
Martin Cavalluzzi, CCRE Visiting Scientist, College of Wil-
liam and Mary. “Distribution, Feeding Ecology, and
Growth of Larval Blennioid Fishes,” with G. David
Johnson, from January 1, 1992 to August 1, 1992.

Gregory W. Courtney, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Mis-
souri. “Phylogenetic Relationships and Higher Classification
of Net-winged Midges (Diptera: Blephariceridae),” with
Wayne Mathis, from October 1, 1991 to September 30, 1992.

Thomas Cowger, Predoctoral Fellow, Purdue University. “Nation-
al Congress of American Indians, 1944- mid 1960s,” with
James Glenn, from December 16, 1991 to December 15, 1992.

Patchin Curtis, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of North
Carolina. “Petrogenesis and Evolution of Mantle Source
Compositions from the Tertiary to the Recent in the
Turkana Depression, East African Rift,” with James Luhr,
from December 1, 1991 to November 30, 1992.

Will Davis, CCRE Visiting Scientist, U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency. “Ecology Specializations and Popula-
tion Characteristics of the Mangrove Rivulus, (RIVULUS
MARMORATUS), in the Cays of Belize,” with Klaus
Ruetzler, from December 1, 1991 to March 1, 1992.

Christopher Decorse, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of
California. “Culture Contact, Continuity, and Change in
West Africa, 1400-1900 A.D.,” with Theresa Singleton and
Chris Geary, from September 20, 1992 to June 19, 1993.

Michael Donoghue, Andrew W. Mellon Fellow, University of
Arizona. “Research Relating to Analyses of Plant Diver-
sification,” with Elizabeth Zimmer, from March 1, 1992 to
June 30, 1993.

Rosemary G. Gillespie, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of
Tennessee. “Pattern and Process in the Species Radiation of
the Genus Tetragnatha in Hawaii,” with Jonathan Cod-
dington, from May 1, 1992 to April 30, 1993.

Anna Graybeal, Predoctoral Fellow, University of California,
Berkeley. “A Molecular and Morphological Analysis of
Phylogenetic Relationships Among North American
toads,” with Roy McDiarmid, from January 1, 1992 to
December 31, 1992.

Nicholas Herrmann, Graduate Student Fellow, University of
Missouri, St. Louis. “The Bioarchaeology of the Jefferson
Avenue Cemetery,” with Douglas Owsley, from February 1,
1992 to April 10, 1992.

Mark A. Hershkovitz, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of
California, Davis. “The Role of Developmental Genes in
Floral Evolution of Display Calandrinia,” with Elizabeth
Zimmer, from September 14, 1992 to September 13, 1994.

Darlene D. Judd, Graduate Student Fellow, A & M Univer-
sity. “Establishing Monophyly of the Genus Phoniomyia
Theobald (Diptera: Culicidae: Sabethini),” with Wayne
Mathis, from September 29, 1992 to November 27, 1992.

Maria Kiriakidu, Graduate Student Fellow, George
Washington University. “Use-Wear Analysis of the Stone
Tool Assemblage From the Casper Site: a Hell Gap Bison
Kill in Wyoming,” with Dennis Stanford, from September
I, 1992 to November 9, 1992.

44

Jean-Luc Loizeau, Visiting Scientist, University of Geneva.
“Quaternary Evolution of Lagoons of the Nile Delta,” with
Daniel Stanley, from December 2, 1991 to October 2, 1992.

Joy McCorriston, Postdoctoral Fellow, Yale University. “Land
Use and Environmental Change in the Khabur Basin,
Syria,” with Bruce Smith, from February 2, 1992 to January
31, 1993.

Damhnait McHugh, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Califor-
nia, Santa Cruz. “The Use of Phylogenetic Systematics in
the Study of Life History Evolution of Terebellid
Polychaetes,” with Kristian Fauchald, from September 14,
1992 to September 14, 1993.

Karen McKee, CCRE Visiting Scientist, Louisiana State
University. “Mangrove Regeneration Subsequent to Clear-
felling: Factors Influencing Seedling Recruitment and Sur-
vival,” with Klaus Ruetzler, from December 1, 1991 to
August I, 1992.

Michael Mehlman, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Illinois.
“East/Central Africa: Middle Stone Age Artifact As-
semblages and Chronometric Precision,” with Alison
Brooks, from October 1, 1991 to September 30, 1992.

Guillermo Mengoni Gonalon, Predoctoral Fellow, University
of Buenos Aires, Argentina. “Bone Modification Patterns in
Archaeofaunal Ungulate Assemblages,” with Bruce Smith,
from January 1, 1992 to June 30, 1992.

Richard Modlin, CCRE Visiting Scientist, University of
Alabama. “Ecology of Mysid and Leptostracan Species in
the Shallow Waters around Twin Cays, Belize,” with Frank
Ferrari, from November 1, 1991 to October 31, 1992.

Cynthia Morton, Graduate Student Fellow, City University of
New York. “Comparative Pollen Morphology of the
Ebenaceae,” with Joan Nowicke, from September 7, 1992 to
November 13, 1992.

Karen M. Mudar, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of
Michigan. “Animal Utilization on the Prehistoric Central
Plains of Thailand,” with Bruce Smith, from September 15,
1992 to September 14, 1993.

Birger Neuhaus, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Gottin-
gen, Germany. “The Introvert of the Kinorhyncha: Sig-
nificance as a Taxonomic Character and a Tool in
Elucidating the Evolution of the Kinorhyncha,” with
Robert P. Higgins, from March 1, 1992 to February 28, 1993.

John Olney, CCRE Visiting Scientist, College of William and
Mary. “A Guide to the Identification of Pelagic Fish Eggs,”
with G. David Johnson, from January 1, 1992 to August I,
1992.

John D. Oswald, Postdoctoral Fellow, Cornell University.
“Phylogeny of the Family Nymphidae and the Superfamily
Myrmeleontiodea (Insecta: Neuroptera),” with Oliver S.
Flint, Jr., from August 1, 1992 to July 31, 1993.

James Pospichal, Graduate Student Fellow, Florida State
University. “Maestrichtian-Danian Calcareous Nan-
noplankton Biogeography: Implications for Paleoceanog-
raphy at the K/T Boundary Transition,” with Brian Huber,
from January 21, 1992 to March 30, 1992.
Miroslav Prokopec, Senior Postdoctoral Fellow, Institute of
Hygiene & Epidemiolody. “Ales Hrdlicka and Development of
Physical Anthropology (Especially in Czechoslovakia),” with
Douglas Ubelaker, from March 1, 1992 to February 28, 1993.

Cherubim A. Quizon, Graduate Student Fellow, State Univer-
sity of New York, Stony Brook. “Expatriate Collectors: Aes-

thetics, Taxonomies, and Narrative in Private Ethnological
Collections from the Northern Philippines, 1900-1940,”
with Paul Taylor, from June 20, 1992 to August 28, 1992.

Edgardo Romero, Visiting Scientist, CONICET. “Study of
Cretaceous Fossil Leaves from Patagonian Sediments,” with
Francis Hueber, from June 15, 1992 to September 15, 1992.

Mario Slaus, Graduate Student Fellow, University of Zegreb,
Yugoslavia. “Biocultural Analysis of the Antelope Creek
Phase of the Plains Indian Populations,” with Douglas
Owsley, from October 1, 1991 to December 10, 1991.

Gregory E. Smoak, Graduate Student Fellow, University of
Utah. “BAE Ethnographers and the Ghost Dance Move-
ments in the Far West,” with William Sturtevant, from
September 14, 1992 to November 20, 1992.

Lynn Snyder, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Tennessee. “As-
sessing the Role of the Domestic Dog as a Native
American Food Resource in the Middle Missouri Subarea,”
with J. Daniel Rogers, from May 1, 1992 to January 31, 1993.

Jiakun Song, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Michigan.
“Relationship of Innervation Pattern, Homology of Lateral
Line Receptors, and Dermal Bones in Gobioid Fishes,”
with Lynne R. Parenti, from July 1, 1992 to June 30, 1993.

Robert Soreng, Visiting Scientist, Cornell University. “New
World Grass Flora,” with Paul Peterson, from September
14, 1992 to October 14, 1993.

Michael Tsosie, Visiting Student, Colorado River Indian
Tribes. “Research and Develop a Tribal Specific Catalogue
on the Mohave Tribe Including both Mohaves from
Colorado River and Fort Mohave,” with JoAllyn Archam-
bault, from December 30, 1991 to August 15, 1993.

Robert Twilley, CCRE Visiting Scientist, University of South-
western Louisiana. “Nutrient Regeneration Associated with
Mangrove Prop Root Communities in Twin Cays, Belize,”
with Klaus Ruetzler, from October 1, 1991 to September 30,
1992.

E.O. Wiley, CCRE Visiting Scientist, University of Kansas.
“Collection of Larval Fishes for the Purpose of Associating
Larvae with Adult Reef Species using Endonuclease
Restriction Analyses,” with G. David Johnson, from May
1, 1992 to August I, 1992.

Brian Willis, Postdoctoral Fellow, State University of New
York, Binghamton. “Spatial and Temporal Controls on
Paleosol Development Within the Miocene Fluvial Siwalik
Group,” with A.K. Behrensmeyer, from October 1, 1991 to
September 30, 1992.

Bei Xu, Postdoctoral Fellow, China University of Geoscien-
ces, P.R. China. “Multiple Collision in South China: The
Evidence from the “Banxi Group”,” with William Melson,
from January 1, 1992 to June 30, 1992.

National Zoological Park

Garth P. Fuller, Graduate Student Fellow, University of
Maryland. “Genetic Analysis of Leontopithecus Utilizing
DNA Sequencing of Mitochondrial DNA,” with Robert
Fleischer, from June 1, 1992 to August 7, 1992.

Marta J. Hersek, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Califor-
nia, Davis. “The Use of Mockingbird Song in In-
traspecific Communication: A Test of the Ranging
Hypothesis,” with Eugene Morton, from August 1, 1992
to July 31, 1993.

Yadvendradev Jhala, Postdoctoral Fellow, Virginia Polytech-
nic Institute. “Reproductive Energetics of Tree Shrews,”
with O.T. Oftedal, from January 15, 1992 to January 14,
1993.

Sabine S. Loew, Postdoctoral Fellow, State University of New
York, Stony Brook. “Interactions of Males and Young in
Toque Macaques: A Study of Paternal Investment Using
DNA Fingerprinting,” with Robert Fleischer, from August
I, 1992 to July 31, 1993.

Budhan Pukazhenthi, Predoctoral Fellow, University of
Maryland. “A Comparative Study of Oocyte Maturation
and In Vitro Fertilization in Domestic Cat and Non-
Domestic Felids Using Co-Culture Technology,” with
David Wildt, from June 1, 1992 to May 31, 1993.

David Spector, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Mas-
sachusetts, Amherst. “Vocal Signal Matching in Intra-
Sexual Communication Among Wood-Warblers,” with
Eugene S. Morton, from October 1, 1991 to September 30,
1993.

Cheryl Tarr, Visiting Student, University of North Dakota.
“Phylogentic Analysis of the Palila,” with Eugene Morton,
from January 1, 1992 to August 15, 1992.

Ethan Temeles, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of California,
Davis. “Determinants of Sexual Differences in Dominance:
Field and Laboratory Experiments on Hummingbirds,”
with Eugene Morton, from September 1, 1992 to August 31,
1993.

Kevin Winker, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Minnesota.
“Sex-Related Habitat Segregation in Transient and Winter-
ing Near-Arctic Migrants,” with John Rappole, from
March 1, 1992 to February 28, 1993.

Pan Xing, International Exchange Visitor, East China Nor-
mal University. “Curriculum development for the Inter-
national Center for Conservation Biology—Shanghai,”
with R. Rudran, from December 1, 1991 to February 29,
1992.

Hongfa Xu, International Exchange Visitor, East China
Normal University. “Curriculum Development for the
International Center for Conservation Biology—Shan-
ghai,” with R. Rudran, from October 1, 1991 to February
29, 1992.

45
Smithsonian Astrophysical Laboratory

James Boyle, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Virginia.
“Atomic Many-Body Theory Applied to Photonization
Processes in Complex Open-Shell Systems,” with
Alexander Dalgarno, from October 1, 1991 to September 30,
1992.

John Chambers, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Manchester.

“The Role of Mean-Motion Resonances in the Origin and
Evolution of Comets,” with Brian Marsden, from Septem-
ber 15, 1992 to September 14, 1993.

Francisco Colomer, Visiting Student, Chalmers University of
Technology. “VLBI Observations of SiO Masers,” with
James Moran, from September 1, 1992 to August 31, 1993.

Salvador Curiel, Postdoctoral Fellow, Harvard University.
“Observational and Theoretical Study of Energy Sources
and Phenomena Related to Molecular Outflows,” with Paul
T. Ho, from March 1, 1992 to February 28, 1993.

Cristina Dalle Ore, Visiting Student, University of California,
Santa Cruz. “The Maunder-Minimum Phase Solar-Type
Stars,” with Sallie Baliunas, from December 1, 1991 to May
31, 1992.

John Delos, Visiting Scientist, College of William and Mary.
“The Study of Excited States of Atoms in Electric and Mag-
netic Fields,” with A. Dalgarno, from January 1, 1992 to
December 31, 1992.

Danuta Dobrzycka, Predoctoral Fellow, Copernicus
Astronomical Center. “Accretion Disk Modelling,” with
Scott Kenyon, from October 1, 1991 to September 30,
1993.

Stephen Fennell, Predoctoral Fellow, University College
Dublin. “Granite: Gamma Ray Astrophysics New Imaging
Telescope. A Proposal to form Stereoscopic Images of
Cherenkov Light from TeV Gamma Ray Showers,” with
Trevor Weekes, from October 1, 1991 to September 30, 1992.

Charlotte Fischer, Visiting Scientist, Vanderbilt University.
“Computational Atomic Spectroscopy,” with Alexander
Dalgarno, from September 1, 1992 to December 31, 1992.

Jing Gao, Visiting Student, College of William and Mary.
“Calculations of Oscillations in the Photoabsorption
Spectra of Hydrogen and Sodium in Electric Fields,” with
John Delos, from September 1, 1992 to August 31, 1993.

Michele Grassi, Visiting Scientist, University of Naples.
“New Techniques for Tether Attachment Point Displace-
ment to Control the Attitude Dynamics of a tethered Sys-
tem During a Radar Interferometry Mission,” with Mario
Cosmo, from February 1, 1992 to April 30, 1992.

Ilana Harrus, Predoctoral Fellow, Columbia University.
“Study of X-ray Spectra from SNRs,” with John Hughes,
from August I, 1992 to July 31, 1993.

Atac Imamoglu, Postdoctoral Fellow, Stanford University.
“Predicting Resonance Fluorescence without Quantizing
the Radiation Field,” with Alexander Dalgarno, from Sep-
tember 1, 1992 to August 31, 1993.

46

Karsten Joensen, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Copen-
hagen. “Evaluation of Multilayers as Grazing-incidence
Optics for X-ray Astronomy,” with Paul Gorenstein, from
August I, 1992 to July 31, 1993.

Jan Johansson, Visiting Scientist, Chalmers University of
Technology. “Determining Estimates of the Vertical from
GPS,” with James Davis, from July 1, 1992 to June 30, 1993.

Laurie Kovalenko, Visiting Scientist, University of Colorado.
“Alignment Effects in Atomic and Molecular Collisions,”
with George Field, from January 1, 1992 to August 31, 1992.

Akihiko Kuze, Visiting Scientist, NEC Corporation. “Re-
search Relevant to the Satellite-based Instruments for At-
mospheric Measurements,” with Kelly Chance, from
September 1, 1992 to August 31, 1993.

Mircea Marinescu, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Romania.
“Atomic and Molecular Physics,” with A. Dalgarno, from
October 1, 1991 to September 30, 1992.

Alessandro Massarotti, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of
Chicago. “Non-standard Approaches to Large Scale Struc-
ture Formation Cold Dark Matter Model and Related Is-
sues Primordial Nucleosynthesis and Gravity and Gauge
Theories,” with George Field, from September 1, 1992 to
August 31, 1993.

Shude Mao, Postdoctoral Fellow, Princeton University.
“Gravitational Lensing and Gamma-ray Bursts,” with Alas-
tair Cameron, from September 1, 1992 to August 31, 1992.

P.M. Mathews, Visiting Scientist, University of Madras.
“Theoretical Studies on Tidal Deformations and Muta-
tions,” with Irwin Shapiro, from August I, 1992 to January
31, 1993.

Michael McCarthy, Postdoctoral Fellow, Massachusetts In-
stitute of Technology. “Experimental and Observational
Studies of Silicon- and Other Metal-Containing Molecules
of Astrophysical Interest,” with James Moran from August
1, 1992 to July 31, 1994.

John Morgan, Visiting Scientist, University of Delaware.
“The Calculation of the Asymptotics of Exponentially
Small Exchange Energy Splittings in Molecules and
Molecular Ions,” with A. Dalgarno, from January 1, 1992 to
August 31, 1992.

Alexander Panasyuk, Visiting Scientist, Russian Academy of
Sciences. “Perfecting the Real-time Software for the Mac-II
for Use on the IOTA Project,” with Robert Reasenberg,
from May 1, 1992 to March 31, 1993.

Silvia Pellegrini, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Bologna. “X-
ray Emissions from Elliptical Galaxies,” with Guseppina Fab-
biano, from November 1, 1991 to December 31, 1992.

Massimo Ramella, Visiting Scientist, Osservatorio
Astronomico di Trieste. “The Investigation of the Structure
of the Galaxy Distribution within the Great Wall,” with
Margaret Geller, from December 10, 1991 to June 10, 1992.

Marco Romoli, Visiting Scientist, University of Florence.
“Characterization of the White Light Channel Coronograph
Polarimeter for the SOHO/UVCS Experiment,” with John
Kohl, from August 1, 1992 to July 31, 1993.
Pan Rongshi, Visiting Scientist, Shanghai Observatory. “Main-
taining the Geodetic VLBI Archive and Providing Data
Analysis Support to the Geodesy Group,” with James
Davis, from July 1, 1992 to December 31, 1992.

Adrian Rovero, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Buenos
Aires. “Gamma Ray Group Researching in High Energy
Astrophysics,” with Trevor Weekes, from October 1, 1991 to
September 30, 1992.

Wei-Hock Soon, Visiting Scientist, University of Southern
California. “The Brightness and Magnetic Activity Varia-
tions of Solar-type and Related Lower-main-sequence
Stars,” with Sallie Baliunas, from October 1, 1991 to July 31,
1992.

Philip Stancil, Predoctoral Fellow, Old Dominion University.
“Strong Magnetic Field Effects on Stellar Spectra with Ap-
plications to White Dwarfs,” with Alexander Dalgarno,
from August I, 1992 to July 31, 1993.

James R. Voelkel, Predoctoral Fellow, Indiana University.
“The Development and Reception of Kepler’s Physical
Astronomy,” with Owen Gingerich, from September 1,
1992 to August 31, 1993.

Xiazhou Yang, Visiting Student, University of Tennessee.
“The Photoabsorption Spectrum Near Threshold of
Hydrogen in a Magnetic Field,” with A. Dalgarno, from
January 1, 1992 to May 31, 1992.

Insu Yi, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Texas, Austin.
“Cosmological Density Perturbations in Accretion Disks in
Compact Objects,” with Alastair Cameron, from Septem-
ber 1, 1992 to August 31, 1994.

Smithsonian Environmental
Research Center

Shuping Bi, Postdoctoral Fellow, Nanjing University, P.R.
China. “Electrochemical Analysis of the Concentration and
Form of Aluminum in Soil Water and Stream Water,” with
David Correll, from January 15, 1992 to January 31, 1993.

Janet M. Coffee, Graduate Student Fellow, University of
Texas, Austin. “Computer Simulation Modeling Investigat-
ing the Effects of Land Uses on Nitrogen Discharges from
Agricultural Watersheds,” with Donald E. Weller, from
June 1, 1992 to September 18, 1992.

Joseph Dineen, Jr., Postdoctoral Fellow, University of
Maryland. “Larval Settlement Relative to Distribution of
Three Species of Balanus in Chesapeake Bay,” with Anson
Hines, from October 15, 1991 to October 14, 1992.

Dieter M. Ebert, Short-term Fellow, Universitat Basel.
“Division of Labour in the Social Spider Anelosimus ex-
imus,” with Donald Windsor, from December 1, 1991 to
February 29, 1992.

Paul J. Gier, Short-term Fellow, University of California,
ULCA. “Mate Choice and Reproductive Success in

Ctenosaura similis,” with A. Stanley Rand, from December
I, 1991 to February 29, 1992.

Edwin Grosholz, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Califor-
nia, Berkeley. “The Influence of Hast Genotype and Spatial
Distribution on Patterns of Larval Trematode Infection in a
Brooding Bivalve,” with Gregory Ruiz, from January 15,
1992 to January 14, 1993.

William B. Jaeckle, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of
Southern California. “The Influence of Larval Growth, Me-
tabolism, Differentiation, and Length of Larval Life on
Growth and Survivorship of Juvenile Macoma Mitchelli,”
with Anson Hines, from September 1, 1992 to August 31,
1993.

Matthew B. Jones, Short-term Fellow, University of Florida.
“Effects of Seed Predation on Adult Abundance in a Tropi-
cal Herb,” with Joseph Wright, from May 13, 1992 to July
28, 1992.

Daniel K. Niven, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Illinois.
“The Consequences of Habitat Selection for the Demog-
raphy of a Neotropical Avian Migrant,” with James Lynch,
from June 1, 1992 to May 31, 1993.

Catherine C. Robb, Short-term Fellow, University of Connec-
ticut. “Physiological Constraints on Calling Activity in
Neotropical Frogs,” with Stanley A. Rand, from April 20,
1992 to July 20, 1992.

Guy B. Thompson, Postdoctoral Fellow, Cambridge Univer-
sity. “More Indirect Effects of CO2 on Salt Marsh Plant
Jungi and Insects and Decomposers,” with Bert Drake,
from July 1, 1992 to June 30, 1993.

John E. Tobin, Short-term Fellow, Harvard University. “Diver-
sity, Community Structure, and Energetics in a Neotropi-
cal Rainforest Canopy Ant Assemblage,” with Donald
Winsor, from July 1, 1992 to September 30, 1992.

Jacques White, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of
Maryland. “Seasonal Variability in Trophic Level Ex-
ploitation by Estuarine Zooplankton,” with D. Wayne
Coats and Charles L. Gallegos, from November 1, 1991 to

January 31, 1993.

Smithsonian Archives

Patricia A. Moore, Graduate Student Fellow, University of
California, Los Angeles. “The Intersection of Gender,
Region, and Discipline: Scientific Promotion Systems
Among Women Botanists in California, 1880-1940,” with
Pamela Henson, from September 29, 1992 to December 8,
1992.

Edward H. Smith, Senior Postdoctoral Fellow, Cornell
University. “Biography of Charles Valentine Riley,” with
Pamela M. Henson, from August 1, 19922 to October 31,

1992.

47
Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute

John Barone, Short Term Fellow, University of Utah. “The
Janzel-Connell Hypothesis: A Test of the Mechanism,”
with Joseph Wright, from August 20, 1992 to November
20, 1992.

Kenneth Clifton, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Califor-
nia, La Jolla. “Testing Current Group Size Models Using
the Caribbean Striped Parrotfish, Scarus iserti,” with Ross
Robertson, from October 1, 1991 to September 30, 1992.

Justine Cruz, Short Term Fellow, Duke University. “Bird,
Beetle, Paca, and Palm Interactions on the Small Islands of
Gatun Lake,” with J. Wright, from October 1, 1991 to
December 31, 1991.

Douglas Emlen, Short Term Fellow, Princeton University.
“Evolution of bimodal male horn-length variation in the
Dung Beetle Onthopahgus stockwelli,” with William Eber-
hard, from October 1, 1991 to December 31, 1991.

Carlos M. Fitzgerald, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Pit-
tsburgh. “The Archaeology of a Frontier: Chame in Eastern
Panama,” with Richard Cooke, from September 15, 1992 to
September 14, 1993.

Gregory Gilbert, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Wiscon-
sin, Madison. “The Role of Tree Diseases in Recruitment
and Survival of Saplings near Conspecific Adult Trees,”
with Alan Smith, from October 1, 1991 to September 30,
1992.

Matthew Gompper, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Ten-
nessee. “The Importance of Genetic Relatedness to the Ex-
hibition of Social Behavior in the Coati (Nasua narica),”
with Nicholas Smythe and A. Stanley Rand, from July 15,
1992 to July 14, 1993.

Michael Hart, Short Term Fellow, University of Washington.
“Larval Feeding and Egg Size in Geminate species Pairs of
Echinoderms,” with H. Lessios, from September 1, 1992 to
November 30, 1992.

John Jones, Postdoctoral Fellow, Texas A & M University.
“Human Ecology, Vegetation, and Climate of Belize
During the Late Quaternary and Holocene,” with Dolores
Piperno, from October 1, 1991 to September 30, 1992.

Michael Kaspari, Short Term Fellow, University of Arizona.
“Patchiness and Diversity of Tropical Litter Ants: the Role of
Litter Dynamics, Disturbance and Recolonization,” with
Donald Windsor, from October 1, 1991 to December 31, 1991.

Lisa Kealhofer, Visiting Scientist, Bryn Mawr College. “Pre-
historic Subsistence, Settlement, and Environment in
Central Thailand,” with Dolores Piperno, from October 1,
1991 to September 30, 1993.

Connie Kolman, Postdoctoral Fellow, Yale University.
“Evolutionary History of Amerind Populations: A
Molecular Analysis,” with Eldredge Bermingham, from
July 1, 1992 to June 30, 1993.

Damond Kyllo, Short Term Fellow, University of Missouri,
St. Louis. “Plant Interconnections by VA Mycorrhizae and

48

the Effects of Growth and Reproduction of Differentially
Stressed Plants,” with Alan Smith and Joseph Wright,
from June 5, 1992 to September 5, 1992.

Paul Morris, Postdoctoral Fellow, Museum of Comparative
Zoology. “Fluid Mechanics, Functional Morphology, and
Phylogeny of Gastropod Pallial Anatomy,” with Jeremy
Jackson, from September 1, 1992 to August 31, 1993.

Oldrich Nedved, Short Term Fellow, Czechoslovak Academy
of Sciences. “Diapause of Stenotarsus rotundus (Coleoptera:
Endomychidae): Supercooling Ability and Lmportance of
Aggregating,” with Donald Windsor, from December 1,
1991 to February 28, 1992.

Karen Reiss, Short Term Fellow, Cornell University. “Inves-
tigations on the Functional Morphology of Tamandua
mexicana,” with Nicholas Smythe, from January 10, 1992 to
April 10, 1992.

Jennifer Ruesink, Short Term Fellow, University of
Washington. “The Role of Epibiotic Biology in Distur-
bance to Scleractinian Corals: Colonization after Wounding
and its Consequences,” with Jeremy Jackson, from April 1,
1992 to June 30, 1992.

Steve Travers, Short Term Fellow, University of California,
Santa Barbara. “Pollen-tube Competition and the Potential
for Sexual Selection in Tropical Plant Species,” with Egbert
Leigh, from April 15, 1992 to July 15, 1992.

David Zeh, Visiting Scientist, University of Arizona. “How
sexual selection works in nature: New Insights from DNA
Fingerprinting,” with William Eberhard, from October 1,
1991 to September 30, 1992.

Arts and Humanities

Arthur M. Sackler Gallery

Jessica Hallett, Predoctoral Fellow, Oxford University. “In-
fluences and Innovation in Early Islamic Pottery and
Glassmaking: The Basra - Cairo Connection,” with Esin
Atil, from August 1, 1992 to July 31, 1993.

Mary Slusser, Senior Postdoctoral Fellow, Washington, D.C.
“Studies of Nepalese and Tibetan Art,” with Milo Beach
and Carol R. Bolon, from October 1, 1991 to September 9,

1992.

Cooper-Hewitt Museum

Deborah Krohn, Peter Krueger-Christies's Fellow. “The
Renaissance Wedding: An Examination of the Material Cul-
ture of Ritual,” with David MacFadden, from September
15, 1992 to July 14, 1993.
Yoshiko Wada, Senior Postdoctoral Fellow, University of
California, Berkeley. “The Development of Shibori, Tie-
Dye, Shaped-Resist Dyeing in the U.S.A.,” with Milton
Sonday and Michael Monroe, from January I, 1992 to
March 31, 1993.

Experimental Gallery

Norman Andersen, Visiting Museum Scholar, North Carolina
State University. “Alternatives in Museum Exhibition
Design,” with Kimberly Camp, from November 1, 1991 to
May 1, 1992.

Bruce Underwood, Visiting Museum Scholar, University of
Maryland. “Develop and Operate a Gallery Explainers/In-
terpreters Program for ‘Powers of Ten’ Exhibition,” with
Kimberly Camp, from October 1, 1991 to September 30,
1992.

Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden

Diane L. Dillon, Graduate Student Fellow, Yale University.
“Deciphering the Subject: Abstract and Emblematic
Portraiture in America, 1911-1931,” with Judith Zilczer,
from February 19, 1992 to April 12, 1992.

Irena K. Dzurkowa, Postdoctoral Fellow, Polish Academy of
Sciences, Poland. “Serial and Cyclical Imagery in Modern
Art,” with Judith Zilczer, from February 1, 1992 to January
31, 1993.

National Air and Space Museum

Harold Andrews, NASM Fellow, Cornell University. “Jet En-
gines and Swept Wings Advancing The U.S. Navy's Carrier
Fighter Technology 1941-1954,” with Thomas Crouch, from
October 1, 1991 to September 30, 1992.

Vasiliy Karpiy, International Fellow, Aeroflot. “The History
of U.S. and Soviet Aviation,” with Von Hardesty and
Ronald Davies, from December 17, 1991 to March 16, 1992.

Emmanuel Lellouch, International Fellow, University of Paris
at Meudon. “Reconstruction of the Global-scale Atmos-
pheric Circulation in Venus’ Atmosphere,” with Jeff
Goldstein, from October 6, 1991 to December 29, 1991.

Vadim Mikheyev, International Fellow, Russian Academy of
Sciences. “The History of the Rotocraft Industry and of
Aviation in Pre-revolutionary Russia,” with Von Hardesty,
from September 1, 1992 to November 30, 1992.

Brunella Nisini, Visiting Scientist, Instituto di Fisica del Plas-
ma Interplanetario. “Analysis and Modelling of Infrared
Recombination Lines of Hydrogen from Very Young Stars
with Winds,” with Howard Smith, from October 7, 1991 to
May 6, 1992.

Vladimir Strelnitski, Visiting Scientist, Russian Academy of
Scientists. “Calibration of Metal Mesh Instruments:
Hydrogen Recombination Line Masers in MWC349,” with
Howard Smith from July 13, 1992 to July 12, 1993.

Christopher Swezey, Graduate Student Fellow, University of
Texas, Austin. “Remote Sensing of Paleo-Drainage Systems
in the Western Desert of Egypt,” with Ted Maxwell, from
June 22, 1992 to August 28, 1992.

Jennifer Tucker, Graduate Student Fellow, Johns Hopkins
University. “Balloons and Aerial Views in American Scien-
tific, Visual, and Popular Culture, 1850-1870,” with David
DeVorkin, from June 8, 1992 to August 14, 1992.

Christine White, Guggenheim Fellowship, Cambridge
University. “Women in Early Russian and Soviet Aviation,”
with Von Hardesty and Dominick Pisano, from December
1, 1991 to November 30, 1992.

National Museum of African Art

Sara W. Smith, Graduate Student Fellow, University of
Washington. “The Construction of Yoruba Identity and the
Creation of Contemporary Art,” with Roy Sieber, from Sep-
tember 1, 1992 to November 9, 1992.

National Museum of American Art

Julie Aronson, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Delaware.
“Bessie Potter Vonnoh and Small Bronze Sculpture in
America,” with George Gurney, from September 1, 1992 to
August 31, 1993.

Mark P. Cole, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Delaware. “A
Critical Evaluation of American Magic Realism,” with Vir-
ginia Mecklenburg, from September 1, 1992 to August 31,
1993.

Mary Douglas, Renwick Senior Postdoctoral Fellow, Maspeth,
New York. “The Craftsman as Yeoman: An Ideology of
Craft,” with Jeremy Adamson, from September 1, 1992 to
August 31, 1993.

Juanita M. Holland, Graduate Student Fellow, Columbia
University. “Nineteenth-Century African American Artists
Edmonia Lewis and Edward M. Bannister: Works and Ar-
chival Resources in Smithsonian Collections,” with Lynda
Hartigan, from June 29, 1992 to September 4, 1992.

49
National Museum of American History

Alan R. Berolzheimer, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Vir-
ginia. “Topographics of mass Consumption in the U.S.,
1910 -1950,” with Charles McGovern, from August I, 1992
to July 31, 1993.

Regina Lee Blaszczyk, Predoctoral Fellow, University of
Delaware. “Shaping the Material World: Technology,
Markets, and Competitive Strategies in the U.S. Ceramic
and Glass Industries, 1865-1970,” with Steven Lubar, from
September 1, 1992 to August 31, 1993.

Oscar Campomanes, Predoctoral Fellow, Brown University.
“Orientalized Filipinos and American Orientalists, 1898-
1915,” with Charles McGovern and Gary Kulik, from June
1, 1992 to September 30, 1992.

Joseph Dumit, Graduate Student Fellow, University of
California, Santa Cruz. “Mind Matters: The Social,
Material, and Entrepreneurial Development of Com-
puterized Brain and Body Imaging, 1950-1990,” with
Ramunas Kondratas, from June 22, 1992 to August 28,
1992.

John R. Gennari, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Pennsy|-
vania. “Jazz and American Culture: The Role of Criticism,”
with John Hasse and Charles McGovern, from July 1, 1992
to June 30, 1993.

Aaron D. Gresson, Postdoctoral Fellow, Pennsylvania State
University. “The Flag and the Yellow Ribbon,” with Keith
Melder and Edith Mayo, from June 1, 1992 to August 31,
1992.

UIf Hashagen, Graduate Student Fellow, University of
Munich, Germany. “Mathematical Models and Machines in
Germany and the USA, 1870-1930,” with Nathan Reingold,
from August 31, 1992 to November 6, 1992.

Kristin Hass, Graduate Student Fellow, University of
Michigan. “Twentieth Century Collecting, Material Cul-
ture, and the Potency of Things,” with Charles McGovern,
from June 1, 1992 to August 7, 1992.

Hartmut Keil, Senior Postdoctoral Fellow, University of
Munich, Germany. “German Immigrants and African
Americans in Mid-19th Century America: A Study in
Group Interaction,” with James Horton, from October 15,
1991 to March 31, 1992.

Arlene Kriv, Graduate Student Fellow, Rutgers University.
“Constructing the "Modern" in American Architecture the
Cultural Production of the Skyscraper and Corporate
Capitalism, 1990-1940," with Charles McGovern, from Sep-
tember 14, 1992 to November 20, 1992.

Deepak Kumar, Postdoctoral Fellow, Delhi University,
India. “Science and Colonization: A Comparative
Study of the Dutch Indies and British India, 1900-
1945,” with Nathan Reingold, from March 1, 1992 to
August 31, 1992.

Jeanne Lawrence, Predoctoral Fellow, Yale University. “Mer-
chandising Class: The Department Store and Urban Social

5O

Relations in Chicago and Glasgow, 1890-1930,” with Char-
les McGovern, from January 1, 1992 to December 31, 1992.

Nancy Mannikko, Predoctoral Fellow, Yale University.
“Hydroelectric Development and the Formation of Discipli-
nary Boundaries in Engineering, 1900-1930,” with Jeffrey
Stine, from January 1, 1992 to June 30, 1992.

Iwan Morus, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Cambridge,
England. “The Dynamics of the Electrical Community in
England and America, 1830-1850,” with Bernard S. Finn,
from April 1, 1992 to September 30, 1992.

Clifford W. Putney, Graduate Student Fellow, Brandeis
University. “Images of Success: Advertisers’ Idealizations of
the American Male, 1880-1930,” with Charles McGovern,
from June 1, 1992 to August 7, 1992.

Keith D. Revell, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Virginia.
“Beyond Efficiency: Experts, Urban Planning, and Civic
Culture in New York City, 1898-1933,” with Jeffrey Stine,
from September 1, 1992 to August 31, 1993.

David Roberts, Graduate Student Fellow, Johns Hopkins
University. “Methods and Motives for Visualizing
Abstractions: American Mathematical Pedagogy, 1890-
1900,” with Peggy Kidwell, from June 1, 1992 to May 31,
1993.

Marguerite S. Shaffer, Predoctoral Fellow, Harvard University.
“See America First: The Rise of Touring the United States,
1906-1939,” with Charles F McGovern, from September 1,
1992 to August 31, 1993.

Lynne P. Snyder, Graduate Student Fellow, University of Penn-
sylvania. “The Federal Government Discovers Air Pollu-
tion, 1948-1967,” with Jeffrey Stine, from June 2, 1992 to
May 31, 1993.

Elizabeth A. White, Predoctoral Fellow, Yale University. “Sen-
timental Entrepreneurs: Profit and the Cultural Rhetoric of
the Middle Class, 1840-1890,” with Charles McGovern,
from September 1, 1992 to August 31, 1993.

Barbara Woods, Visiting Scholar, Association for Study of
African-American Life and History. “The Public Career of
Modjeska Simkins,” with Spencer Crew, from October 15,
1991 to June 30, 1993.

National Portrait Gallery

Ellen H. Grayson, Predoctoral Fellow, George Washington
University. “History Painting in a Republic of Virtue: So-
cial Meaning in Rembrandt Peale’s Court of Death,” with
William Truettner, from September 1, 1992 to August 31,
1993.
Education and Public Services

Center for Folklife Programs and
Cultural Studies

Ilana Abramovitch, Graduate Student Fellow, New York
University. “The Conceptual Evolution of Multiethnic Fes-
tivals: American's Making Exposition and Festival—Im-
migrant Gifts on the Altar of America,” with Olivia
Cadaval, from June 15, 1992 to August 25, 1992.

Wei Feng, Visiting Scholar, China Folk Literature and Arts
Society. “Technique of Producing Living Cultural Exhibi-
tions as a means of Education and Development,” with
Peter Seitel, from October 7, 1991 to January 31, 1992.

Frank J. Korom, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Pennsyl-
vania. “Rites of Passage and the Passage of Rites: Muhar-
ram Observances in Iran, India, and Trinidad,” with
Richard Kurin, from September 1, 1992 to August 31, 1993.

External Affairs

Office of the Assistant Secretary for
External Affairs

Angelo dos Santos, Visiting Scientist, Institute Nacional de
Pesquisas de Amazonia. “Institutional Policy and Outreach
for the Biological Dynamics of Forest Fragments Project,”
with Thomas Lovejoy, from January 1, 1992 to December 31,
1992.

Office of International
Relations International Center

Paul Ackon, Ghana Project Trainee, St. Paul’s Technical,
Kukurantumi, Ghana. “Participant in Technical Museum
Training Programs for the Ghana Cape Coast Natural
Resource Conservation and Historic Preservation,” with
Vera Hyatt, from September 1, 1992 to February 28, 1993.

George Asante, Ghana Project Trainee, 37 Military Hospital.
“Participant in Technical Museum Training Programs for
the Ghana Cape Coast Natural Resource Conservation and
Historic Preservation,” with Vera Hyatt, from September 1,
1992 to February 28, 1993.

Solorman Obeng, Ghana Project Trainee, CEDECOM. “Par-
ticipant in Technical Museum Training Programs for the
Ghana Cape Coast Natural Resource Conservation and His-

toric Preservation,” with Vera Hyatt, from September 1,
1992 to February 28, 1993.

Nana Ocran, Ghana Project Trainee, Ghana Tourist Board.
“Participant in Technical Museum Training Programs for
the Ghana Cape Coast Natural Resource Conservation and
Historic Preservation,” with Vera Hyatt, from September 1,
1992 to February 28, 1993.

Emmanuel Quao, Ghana Project Trainee, Center for National
Culture. “Participant in Technical Museum Training
Programs for the Ghana Cape Coast Natural Resource Con-
servation and Historic Preservation,” with Vera Hyatt,
from September 1, 1992 to February 28, 1993.

Internships and Other
Appointments

The Smithsonian offers internships and other special ap-
pointments to undergraduate and graduate students and
to museum professionals. The interns included here
began their appointments between October I, 1991, and
September 30, 1992. Those who received special awards
or participated in special programs are so listed.
Wherever possible the home institution, a brief descrip-
tion of the project undertaken at the Smithsonian, and
the dates of service are given.

Office of Public Affairs

Kimberly Davis, Bachelors Degree. Developing and updating
media mailing lists; writing a news release for distribution
to the print media; assisting with publicity campaigns, Sep-
tember 22, 1992 through December 31, 1992.

Meredith Marsh, Bachelors Candidate. Working closely with
public information officer, help to maintain clips, write
ptess releases; working closely with Folklife festival coor-
dinators, June 1, 1992 through August 31, 1992.

Sciences
Conservation Analytical Laboratory

Jennifer Beers, Bachelors Degree. Paper Conservation
Laboratory, Learn about examination, treatment, and
analysis of parchment and parchment paper, June 22, 1992
through September 30, 1992.

5I
Jan Burandt, Masters Candidate, Buffalo State College. Paper
Conservation Laboratory, conservation survey for Smith-
sonian Institution Archives, National Museum of American
Art, and conservation treatment of a Renwick architectural
drawing of the Smithsonian building, July 6, 1992 through
August 28, 1992.

Patricia Griffin, Masters Candidate, Institute of Fine Arts,
New York University. Objects Conservation Laboratory,
train in archaeological conservation, both in the field and
in the objects conservation laboratory, October 7, 1991
through October 6, 1992.

Thuy Le, High School Student. Thomas Jefferson High
School for Science and Technology. Identification and
Analysis of Paleolithic Pigments, August 31 1992 through
June 18, 1993.

William Lewin, Bachelors Candidate, Old Dominion Univer-
sity. Furniture Conservation Laboratory, conservation and
treatment of Japanned clock, June 9, 1992 through August
18, 1992.

Margo McFarland, Masters Candidate, Institute of Fine
Arts, New York University. Paper Conservation
Laboratory, undertake conservation surveys, including a
survey of monotypes at NMAA for condition and com-
position and drawings at SI Archives by Renwick for ex-
amination and treatment, July 6, 1992 through August
28, 1992.

Catherine Nightingale, Bachelors Candidate, Institute of
Archaeology, University of London. Objects Conserva-
tion Laboratory, conservation treatment of ancient pre-
pottery neolithic statue cache made of plaster from ‘Ain
Ghazal, Jordan, July 13, 1992 through September 18,
1992.

Arati Raghavan, High School Student, Thomas Jefferson
High School for Science and Technology. Neolithic Plaster
Identification and Technology, August 31, 1992 through
June 18, 1993.

Dana Seaman, High School Student, Thomas Jefferson High
School for Science and Technology. Research, extraction and
amplification of DNA from ancient plant material, June
29, 1992 through June 29, 1993.

Judith South-vard, Masters Degree. Objects Conservation
Laboratory, conservation treatment of ancient pre-pottery
neolithic statuary cache made of plaster from ‘Ain Ghazal,
Jordan, June 29, 1992 through August 28, 1992.

Nancy Stanfill, Bachelor's Degree, Kansas City Art Institute.
Treatment and research on specialty papers and
photographs; assistance in courses, workshops and surveys,
September 28, 1992 through September 27, 1993.

Puji Yosep Subagiyo, Visiting Professional, National
Museum, Indonesia. Textile Conservation, train in textile
conservation and research on traditional materials used in
Indonesia, October 1, 1991 through May 1, 1992.

52

National Museum of Natural History

Genevieve Alvarez, High School Graduate. Marine Systems
Laboratory, OESE Intern ‘92: assist with two living eco-
systems and study ecosystems; take salinity readings and
maintain the systems pH and temp., July 13, 1992 through
August 14, 1992.

Rosa Anchondo, Bachelors Candidate, University of Arizona.
Department of Anthropology, work with the Handbook of
North American Indian staff in researching and archiving pic-
ture material and photographs, June 22, 1992 through
August 14, 1992.

Michelle Anderson, Bachelors Candidate, Western
Washington University. Department of Botany, features of
seed morphology of Heliconias will be described, charac-
terized and scored and used in a phylagenetic analyses, May
26, 1992 through July 31, 1992.

Jennifer Apple, Bachelors Candidate, University of Puget
Sound. Department of Invertebrate Zoology, diversity and
distribution of Mangrove Swamp Invertebrates: specimens
will be sorted and identified, the distribution will be
mapped from field data, and environmental data will be
analyzed as part of a study of mangrove ecology, May 26,
1992 through July 31, 1992.

Alexandria Audet, Bachelors Candidate, MacDonald College.
Department of Vertebrate Zoology, May 5, 1992 through
July 31, 1992.

Eliza Bancroft, Bachelors Degree. Department of Anthropol-
ogy, assist in the administration of the American Indian
Program and development of the North American Hall
project, December 2, 1991 through February 2, 1992.

Eric Bannasch, High School Graduate. Department of
Anthropology, OESE Intern ‘92: assist in sorting, process-
ing and cataloging artifacts from North American sites; or-
ganize and enter data into computer, July 13, 1992 through
August 14, 1992.

Robin Baron, Masters Candidate. ADP, digitizing and
geographic data entry for computer mapping and
geographic information systems projects, March 2, 1992
through June 30, 1992.

Robin Baron. Department of Botany, the application of
geographical information systems to a botanical inventory
of the Parque Nacional Sierra Nevada, Venezuela, May 18,
1992 through November 18, 1992.

James Breiler, Masters Candidate, University of Washington.
Department of Anthropology, develop study plan for im-
plementation of tribal museums, January 27, 1992 through
February 22, 1992.

Nicole Brooks, High School Graduate. Insect Zoo, OESE In-
tern ‘92: conduct public feedings, insect handling and
presentations; daily preparation of exhibits and care of in-
sect cultures, July 13, 1992 through August 14, 1992.

Jerry Burgess, Masters Candidate, University of Maryland.
Department of Mineral Sciences, help to: gather and dis-
seminate information about current volcanism and
earthquakes for the monthly GVN Bulletin; produce
Global Volcanism 1986-92, documenting 6 years of Bul-
letin volcano reporting; build a petrologic and tectonic
database linked to the Volcano Reference File, February 24,
1992 through September 4, 1992.

Judith Buzzi, Visiting Professional. Insect Zoo, develop cur-
ricula material for classroom teachers using arthropods to
teach basic concepts of ecology, animal behavior, and the
scientific method, July 13, 1992 through August 14, 1992.

Diana Clise, Masters Degree. Conservation Laboratory, par-
ticipate in on-going volunteer projects, June 1, 1992
through August 7, 1992.

Tanisha Cobb, High School Student, Frederick Douglas High
School. Naturalist Center, participate in workshops as well as
assist supervisor and workshop consultants with the im-
plementation of the Natural Science Institute for Teachers of
Minority Students, June 29, 1992 through August 7, 1992.

Juanita Cole, High School Graduate. Naturalist Center, par-
ticipate in workshops as well as assist supervisor and
workshop consultants with the implementation of the
Natural Science Institute for Teachers of Minority Stu-
dents, June 29, 1992 through August 7, 1992.

Margaret Cuasay, Bachelors Degree. Department of Mineral
Sciences, preparation and analysis of volcanic rock samples,
December 2, 1991 through September 30, 1992.

Brian Demedius, Bachelors Candidate, Maryland Institute
College of Art. Department of Scientific Illustrations,
paleontological illustrations, January 31, 1992 through May
31, 1992.

Ricky Dickens, High School Graduate. Naturalist Center, par-
ticipate in workshops as well as assist supervisor and
workshop consultants with the implementation of the
Natural Science Institute for Teachers of Minority Stu-
dents, June 29, 1992 through August 7, 1992.

Amy Downing, Bachelors Candidate, University of Michigan.
Department of Vertebrate Zoology, systematic review of
the fish genus Dermogings, May 26, 1992 through July 31,
1992.

Nathan Eckrich, Bachelors Candidate, San Diego State
University. Department of Botany, herbivore induced mor-
phology of marine algae, May 26, 1992 through July 31,
1992.

Jennifer Edge, High School Graduate. Department of
Anthropology, OESE Intern '92: assist in researching
Benedicte Wrensted, a photographer whose work docu-
ments the Northern Shoshone and Bannock Indian tribes;
search old newspapers to locate information, June 8, 1992
through July 10, 1992.

David Ellenberger, Bachelors Candidate, Albertson College of
Idaho. Department of Vertebrate Zoology, amorphometric
analysis of cranial development of Least Chipmunks, May
26, 1992 through July 31, 1992.

Tuwayne Foster, High School Student, F.W. Ballou High
School. Naturalist Center, participate in workshops as well

as assist supervisor and workshop consultants with the im-
plementation of the Natural Science Institute for Teachers
of Minority Students, June 29, 1992 through August 7,
1992.

Tess Freidenburg, Bachelors Candidate, Portland State Univer-
sity. Department of Physical Anthropology, evidence of
European contact as reflected in skeletons from Easter Is-
land, January 8, 1992 through March 20, 1992.

Mary Gaines, Visiting Professional. Department of Anthropol-
ogy, review trade books on American Indians for cultural
and historical accuracy and cultural sensitivity; books
found suitable will be included on a bibliography to be dis-
tributed to elementary and secondary teachers, July 6, 1992
through August 14, 1992.

Julia Geffrey, Bachelors Candidate, New Mexico Highlands
University. Department of Anthropology, assist in research
on human bones, June 1, 1992 through July 31, 1992.

Arnetta Girardeau, Masters Candidate, Duke University.
Department of Anthropology, study of material and social
coding found in the early ethnographic photographs of
Cherokee and Seminole Indians, June 22, 1992 through
August 31, 1992.

Jonathan Goldberg, Masters Degree. Department of Mineral
Science, assist in gathering and disseminating information
about current volcanism and earthquakes for the monthly
GVN Bulletin; produce Global Volcanism 1986-1991,
documenting 6 years of Bulletin volcano reporting; build a
petrologic and tectonic database linked to the Volcano Ref-
erence File, July 20, 1992 through September 25, 1992.

Jonathan Goodrich, Bachelors Degree. Department of Asian
Ethnology, Assist P. Taylor with research and organization
of Abbott Letters & Taiwanese Hell Scrolls exhibit, April
27, 1992 through July 14, 1992.

Katherine Gould, Bachelors Degree. Department of Biology,
species delimitation in the floral genus Werneria, an An-
dean composite, through character analysis of collected
specimens, May 26, 1992 through July 31, 1992.

Carolyn Gray, Masters Candidate, George Washington Univer-
sity. Will be assisting with the public affairs efforts for the
“Seeds of Change” exhibit in the National Museum of
Natural History, September 28, 1992 through December 16,
1992.

Naomi Graychase, Bachelors Candidate, Smith College.
Working on the handbook of Native American Indians,
September 8, 1992 through December 18, 1992.

Cheyenne Harris, Bachelors Degree. Department of
Anthropology, study of Native American metalwork in the
museum, June 1, 1992 through June 12, 1992

Michael Henry, Masters Candidate, George Washington
University. Handbook of the American Indian, work on
women photographers of Native American peoples,
January 9, 1992 through May 30, 1992.

Kerry Inman, Bachelors Degree. Department of Botany, Com-
melinaceae Research: Is Antherocopsis sepalosa a species of
Murdania, May 25, 1992 through July 31, 1992.

53
Kimberly Jackson, Bachelors Candidate, Howard University.
Systematics Laboratory, work with curators on identifying,
sorting, and analyzing cephalopods, June 1, 1992 through
August 7, 1992.

Regina Jennings, Bachelors Degree. Office of the Director, as-
sist public relations with publicity, media relations, and
special events/features; work with curators on “Seeds of
Change” exhibit, June 3, 1992 through August 7, 1992.

Rajeshwari Jhala, Bachelors Degree. ADP, digitizing and
geographic data entry for computer mapping and
geographic information systems projects, March 2, 1992
through August 31, 1992.

Kimberly Johnson, Bachelors Candidate, Oberlin College.
Department of Education, research labels in Natural His-
tory exhibits for gender bias, January 7, 1992 through
January 29, 1992.

Mary Jurkiewicz, Bachelors Degree. Move Office, work on the
Plains Indian Project—cleaning and shipping objects,
January 6, 1992 through May 31, 1992.

Pamela Keef, Bachelors Degree. Department of Botany,
Medicinal plants of the Philippines—compile data sheets
giving information on several hundred medicinal plants of
the Philippines, May 26, 1992 through July 31, 1992.

Tae Kim, Bachelors Candidate, Reed College. Laboratory of
Molecular Systematics, evolutionary relationship within the
Lythraceae—a comparison of ribosomal DNA sequences,
May 25, 1992 through July 31, 1992.

Deanna Kingston, Masters Candidate, Oregon State Univer-
sity. Will be assisting Steve Loring in going through the
Henry Collins collection including photos, artifacts, and
films. Will also look at films made by ?? from 1939 and
1964 World's Fair in New York, August 24, 1992 through
October 16, 1992.

Lawrence Lopez, Bachelors Candidate, Agraria University.
Laboratory of Molecular Systematics, black capped and
Carolina Chickadees are known to hybridize—isolate
DNA, amplify specific segments of DNA and sequence
homologous segments of DNA to verify genetic introgres-
sion at a contact zone; vocalization and morphology pat-
terns will be analyzed, May 26, 1992 through July 31, 1992.

Consuelo Marino, Bachelors Candidate, University of
Colorado. Department of Paleobiology, Ocean Surface
Temperature and vertical gradients in mastrichtiam
Antarctic Oceans using carbon and oxygen isotopes data
from Cretaceous Foraminifera, May 25, 1992 through
August 30, 1992.

Montre McKinney, High School Student, Duke Ellington
School. Museum Shops, work with staff to construct, build,

and place displays in museum shops around the Institution.

Malik Menefee, Bachelors Candidate, University of Maryland.
Department of Paleobiology, study of phylogenetic relation-

ships and evolution in Physeterids (sperm whales) using a
cladistic procedure, May 26, 1992 through July 31, 1992.

Catherine Miller, Bachelors Candidate, Sweet Briar College.
Discovery Room, introduction to the Discovery Room and

54

Discovery Room programs; update Discovery Room ex-
hibit components, January 6, 1992 through January 31, 1992.

Elizabeth Noznesky, Bachelors Candidate, Georgetown
University. Department of Anthropology, identification of
an early daguerreotype and aiding the supervisor with a
North Pacific Project, January 22, 1992 through May 31,
1992.

Jennifer Olsen, Bachelors Candidate, Tulane University.
Department of Paleobiology, ocean surface temperature and
vertical gradients in the maastrichtian Anarctic Ocean
using carbon and oxygen isotope data from Creatceous
Formaniferia, May 26, 1992 through July 31, 1992.

Sarah Orndorff, Bachelors Degree. Organizing a photographic
collection documentation the Canela Indians of Northern
Brazil for Dr. Bill Cracker, as well as, examining human
skeletal remains for Dr Doug Owsley, February 1, 1992
through May 1, 1992.

Linnette Perez, Bachelors Candidate, University of Puerto
Rico. Department of Vertebrate Zoology, Systematic resolu-
tion of the taxon Leptodactylus gracilis delattini—analyze the
new call data to figure out if it is a subspecies or a full
species, May 26, 1992 through July 31, 1992.

John Perrine III, Masters Candidate, Vanderbilt University.
Department of Paleobiology, studies of late Paleozoic
plants: chemical treatment of fossil samples to determine
original localized biodensities, May 26, 1992 through July
31, 1992.

Cheryl Petrina, Masters Candidate, University of Maryland.
Department of Mineral Sciences, help gather and dissemi-
nate information about current volcanism and earthquakes
for the monthly GVN Bulletin; produce Global Volcanism
1986-1991, documenting 6 years of Bulletin volcano report-
ing; build a petrologic and tectonic database linked to the
Volcano Reference File, February 24, 1992 through June 26,
1992.

Robin Porter, Bachelors Candidate, Maryland Institute Col-
lege of Art. Department of Anthropology, learn the prin-
ciples of illustrating ethnological/archeological artifacts for
publication as well as production of visual materials for
publication of the “Handbook of North American Indians”,
January 15, 1992 through May I5, 1992.

Hilga Prins, Masters Degree. Department of Anthropology,
material culture of Indonesia, W.L. Abbott collection,
transcription and publication of field correspondence and
photos, May 21, 1992 through November 30, 1992.

Thomas Prinzie, Bachelors Candidate, Slippery Rock Univer-
sity. Department of Biology, isozyme electrophoreins guan-
tification of genetic variation present in a series of
populations of a species of the tropical plant genus
Heliconia, May 26, 1992 through July 31, 1992.

Jo Ann Reynolds, Bachelors Candidate, Eastern Connecticut
State University. Department of Biology, Gesneriaceae of
Mesoamerica, Excodoria through study of library, herbarium
and fresh material documented relationships and distribu-
tion of the genus, verified limits of variation in morphol-
ogy, produced descriptions and keys using DELTA, and
prepared phylogenetic analysis of Eucodonia and its cog-
nates, May 26, 1992 through July 31, 1992.

Andrew Roberts, Masters Candidate, George Mason Univer-
sity. Geographic Information Systems, digitize maps and
spatial analyses, February 12, 1992 through May 30, 1992.

Andrew Roberts, Masters Degree. Department of Botany,
application of geographical information systems toa
botanical inventory of the Parque Nacional Sierra
Nevada, Venezuela, May 18, 1992 through July 31. 1992.

Rebecca Robinson, Bachelors Candidate, Indiana University.
Department of Mineral Science, petrographic and mineral
chemistry analysis of aplites from Western Maine and their
relations to associated pegmatite and granite bodies, May
26, 1992 through July 31, 1992.

David Rogers, Bachelors Candidate. Department of Botany,
medicinal flora of the Philippines: information-gathering
from the published literature, including various medicinal
and drug-plant uses, common names and chemistry,
February 3, 1992 through April 9, 1992.

Stephen Schellenberg, Bachelors Degree. Department of
Paleobiology, morphometric analyses of Late Paleozoic
zygopleurid gastropods, May 26, 1992 through July 31,
1992.

Lisa Schultheis, Bachelors Degree. Laboratory of Molecular
Systematics, study of the evolution of seed plants of the
molecular level—concentration on the Gnetales, May 26,
1992 through July 31, 1992.

Alexia Scott, Masters Candidate, George Mason University.
Department of Anthropology, scientific illustration, June
22, 1992 through September 1, 1992.

Maureen Shea, Bachelors Degree. Department of Anthropol-
ogy, examine and analyze human skeletal remains from
recent forensic cases as well as analyze collections recovered
from historic or prehistoric archeological sites, May 26,
1992 through July 31, 1992.

Jill Sheasley, Bachelors Degree. Department of Botany, pos-
sible taxonomic differences in populations of Lobaria
oregana, May 26, 1992 through July 31, 1992.

Kevin Shuster, Bachelors Candidate, University of Georgia.
Department of Paleontology, scientific illustration, January
14, 1992 through August 14, 1992.

Stanisic Sinisa, Bachelors Candidate, Belgrade University-
Yugoslavia. Global Volcanism Network Project: Studies of
Contemporary and recent volcanic activity, September 9,
1992 through December 31, 1992.

Shelly Skomra, Visiting Professional. Office of Education,
serve as teacher mentor with the Teacher Science Institute;
work with new students helping them to discover ways
museum methodology can be applied to school curriculum,
July 6, 1992 through August 14, 1992.

Mary Strickland, Masters Candidate, Louisiana State Univer-
sity. Department of Anthropology, conservation, storage,
and mounting of museum objects, June 15, 1992 through
August 15, 1992.

Gretchen Stromberg, Bachelors Candidate, UC Davis.
Documentation of Apache skeletal remains for repatriation
evaluation - assistant/apprentice to regular repatriation of-
fice staff, September 15, 1992 through December 12, 1992.

Rosanna Tall Bear, High School Graduate. Museum Support
Center, OESE Intern '92: assist museum technicians in
preparing Native American collections for transfer to a new
facility; clean, inspect, invoice, and pack objects, July 13,
1992 through August 14, 1992.

Gabrielle Tayac, Masters Candidate, Harvard University.
Department of Anthropology, survey ethnographic, ar-
chival, and historical materials pertaining to the Pis-
cataway and other eastern Algonkian peoples, June 8, 1992
through August 14, 1992.

Jen Thangavelu, High School Student, Garrison Forest
School. Department of Anthropology, scientific illustra-
tion, May 18, 1992 through July 5, 1992.

Christine Thede, Bachelor's Degree. Department of Conserva-
tion, intern will work as a team member on anthropology
move project. She will also work on specific conservation
treatments related to the move project, August 3, 1992
through August 1, 1993.

Lucy Thomason, Masters Candidate, University of Texas.
Department of Anthropology, endangered Native
American languages, May 18, 1992 through August 10, 1992.

Cristina de la Torre, Bachelors Candidate, University of
California, Berkeley. Department of Anthropology, inves-
tigate various anthropological opportunities in museums,
June 1, 1992 through September 8, 1992.

Ain Tucker, High School Graduate. Naturalist Center, par-
ticipate in workshops as well as assist supervisor and
workshop consultants with the implementation of the
Natural Science Institute for Teachers of Minority Stu-
dents, June 29, 1992 through August 7, 1992.

Laura Lee Utz, Bachelors Candidate. Special events marketing
plan, donor research, public relation projects, campaign
dinner, proposal, September 16, 1992 through December 9,
1992.

Sigrid Vasconez, Bachelors Candidate, Beloit College. Depart-
ment of Botany, species delimitation in the Corapositae,
May 26, 1992 through July 31, 1992.

Michael Walsh, Bachelors Candidate, University of Maryland.
Department of Anthropology, cataloguing and curation of
the Stewart-Collins othnographic and archaeological collec-
tion from Alaska, 1927, February 14, 1992 through May 31,
1992.

Aisha White, Bachelors Candidate, Howard University.
Department of Invertebrate Zoology, anatomy and descrip-
tion of a possible new species of marine worm in the
phylum Nemertina, May 26, 1992 through July 31, 1992.

Cheryl Wilson, Masters Candidate, George Washington
University. Department of Anthropology, assist in the com-
pilation of an annotated bibliography on American Indian
elementary and secondary publications, May 27, 1992
through August 28, 1992.

55
Stephen Wilson, Bachelors Candidate, Long Island University.
Marine Systems Laboratory, assist in maintaining the Reef
Systems; research a project on the Coral Reef Systems,
January 20, 1992 through May 30, 1992.

Pamela Wyn, Bachelors Candidate, Smith College. Working
with the reference photographs in the National
Anthropological Archives updating the reference files, Sep-
tember 8, 1992 through December 18, 1992.

Timothy Yerington, High School Student, Thomas Jefferson
High School, assist in defining the species of Wernia, June
6, 1992 through June 30, 1993.

National Zoological Park

Alice Collier, High School Graduate. Division of Animal
Health, OESE Intern 'g92: assist veterinary technicians in
general hospital maintenance; clean equipment and assist
in making observations and keeping records of observa-
tions, June 8, 1992 through July 10, 1992.

Mary Crowson, High School Graduate. Golden Lion Tamarin
Project, OESE Intern ‘92: assist zoo staff in interpreting the
free-ranging golden lion tamarin project; explain exhibi-
tion to visitors and answer questions about the animals and
behavior, June 8, 1992 through July 10, 1992.

Jennifer Falacy, Bachelors Candidate, New Mexico Highlands
University. Landscape Unit, assist through the Office of
Horticulture, June 1, 1992 through August 7, 1992.

Monique Galloway, Bachelors Candidate, Northern Virginia
Community College. Division of Mammals, develop a feed-
ing project for the golden lion tamarins, June 1, 1992
through August 7, 1992.

Sharon Holmes. Office of Planning and Construction, utiliza-
tion of automated methodology to schedule, document,
and identify results of various projects for the Office of Con-
struction Management, June 8, 1992 through August 14,
1992.

Jennifer Jones, High School Graduate. Primate House, OESE
Intern '92: assist the primate keepers with daily routine;
clean enclosures, prepare food, and conduct behavioral ob-
servations, July 13, 1992 through August 14, 1992.

Samuel Jones IV, High School Graduate. Invertebrates, OESE
Intern '92: assist in maintaining the exhibition, mixing
seawater, feeding animals, and cleaning and decorating
cages and aquaria, July 13, 1992 through August 14, 1992.

Shauna Keane-Timberlake. Office of Education, senior assis-
tant, June 11, 1992 through June 10, 1994.

Kelly Mercer, High School Graduate. Small Mammal House,
OESE Intern ’92: clean and prepare and distribute food;
maintain animal enclosure materials and assist in animal
breeding encouragement, July 13, 1992 through August 14,
1992.

56

Alexandra Sangmeister, Bachelors Degree. Project aid -
zoological research in the bird unit, September 1, 1992
through January 31, 1994.

Stanford Smith, Bachelors Candidate, Clark Atlanta Univer-
sity. Mammal Exhibit, assist in developing a state-
ment/policy for the Smithsonian regarding the use of
animals in research, June 10, 1992 through August 14, 1992.

Sarah Southall, Bachelors Candidate, Williams College.
Development, analysis of donor benefits, creation of a case
statement concerning the individual needs of each depart-
ment of the zoo, and miscellaneous other tasks, June 8,
1992 through June 21, 1992.

Christopher Stuart, High School Graduate. FONZ—Publica-
tions, OESE Intern ‘92: assist the staff with all aspects of
preparation of Zoogoer magazine, June 8, 1992 through July
10, 1992.

Office of Environmental Awareness

Jonathan Kohl, Bachelors Degree. Will be researching
materials for a book on ocean conservation and for content
of the Smithsonian forthcoming exhibition on oceans, Sep-
tember 14, 1992 through December 18, 1992

Elizabeth McKance, Masters Candidate, University of
Maryland. Assisted OEA Director Judith Gradwohl with
background research on a variety of marine conservation re-
lated conservation topics for the book “Troubled Seas,”
June 1, 1992 through August 4, 1992.

Miles Smith, Masters Degree, American Graduate School of
International Management. Conducted institution-wide
survey and updated the Smithsonian Environmental Ac-
tivities Report, which summarizes Smithsonian environ-
mentally-related research, education and training
programs, February 3, 1992 through May 29, 1992.

Office of Interdisciplinary Studies

Badelock Noldus, Bachelors Candidate, Reinwardt Academy.
Internship in interactive media: individual research,
January 7, 1992 through February 1, 1992.

Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory

Daniel Figueroa, Bachelors Candidate, American River Col-
lege. H K project—data analysis, June 1, 1992 through
August 7, 1992.
Smithsonian Environmental
Research Center

Michael Bosela, Bachelors Degree. Orchid germination
studies, development, and subsequent growth, January 20,
1992 through April 24, 1992.

Kimberly Bowman, Bachelors Candidate, San Jose State
University. Nitrous Oxide emission from soils, June 8, 1992
through August 14, 1992.

Kelton Clark, Bachelors Candidate, San Diego State Univer-
sity. Examine interactions between parasite and host
populations in the Cheasapeake Bay, September 14, 1992
through December 1, 1992.

Rachel Collin, Bachelors Candidate, Brown University. Op-
tional foraging of Blue Crabs on clams in the
Chesapeake Bay, May 18, 1992 through September 4,
1992.

Lisa Goldman, Bachelors Candidate, Stanford University.
Forest Canopy project, June 15, 1992 through August 28,
1992.

Christopher Guadiz, Bachelors Candidate, La Sierra Univer-
sity. Complex predator-prey interactions of juvenile blue
crabs, fish, shrimp, and benthic invertebrates in the near-
shore shallows of the Chesapeake Bay, June 22, 1992
through September 11, 1992.

Bradley Lamphere, Bachelors Candidate, Pomona College.
Trophodynamics of Parasitis Dinoflagellates, June 15, 1992
through August 14, 1992.

Lisa Levinson, Bachelors Degree. Environment education,
June 15, 1992 through September 4, 1992.

Daniel Shepard, Bachelors Degree, UC Santa Cruz. Forest
canopy study, September 14, 1992 through October 2,
1992.

Nancy Smith, Bachelors Candidate, University of
Washington. Study of Distribution and Effects of
Animal Parasites, June 15, 1992 through August 21,
1992.

Yvonne Tanuz, Bachelors Candidate, New Mexico Highlands
University. Botany, assist with part of long-term study of
the life history and population dynamics in terrestrial or-
chids, June 8, 1992 through August 14, 1992.

Dorothy Anne Wallace-Senft, Bachelor’s Candidate, Ben-
nington College. Department of Terrestrial Ecology, in-
tern will work with Post-Doc Martin Cipollini on an
independent project on the distribution and response of
the understory shrub, Zindera benzoin to changes in
canopy openness, July 14, 1992 through September 4,
1992.

Richard J. Wayner, Bachelor's Degree. Habitat utilization
by hooded warblers, May 13, 1992 through August 7,
1992.

Peter Wielinga, Bachelors Candidate, Krige Universteit.
Carbon Dioxide Project, May 25, 1992 through August
28, 1992.

Christopher Wyman, Bachelor's Degree. Ecology of es-
tuarine and marine animals, May 20, 1992 through June
26, 1992.

Smithsonian Institution Archives

Aimee Robertson, Bachelors Candidate, University of
Maryland. Process the professional papers of Joseph P.E.
Morrison, June 1, 1992 through August 30, 1992.

Smithsonian Institution Libraries

Susan Westerberg Cole, Bachelors Degree. Collection-level
cataloguing of trade literature in the National Museum of
American History, as well as, research on installation and
use of the Database Searching Center (DBSC) under the
Museum Support Center.

Bryan Culp, Bachelors Degree. National Museum of
American History Library, collection level cataloging of
trade catalogs, June 1, 1992 through August 14, 1992.

Margaret O'Brien, Masters Candidate, Catholic University.
Dibner Library, training and experience in the manage-
ment and technology of exhibition of rare books, May 2,
1992 through August 10, 1992.

Wade Kotter, Masters Candidate, University of Maryland.
Natural History Branch, familiarization with day-to-day
operations of a major research library, July 13, 1992 through
August 28, 1992.

Chukwuemeka Olumba, High School Student. National Air
and Space Museum, assist library staff with shelving,
processing, and filing of books and periodicals, and keep
logs, June 29, 1992 through August 30, 1992.

Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute

Maria del Pilar Angulo, Bachelors Degree. Barro Colorado Is-
land, assist with the project: “Study of Understory Plant
Responses to the Dry Season on BCI”, February 4, 1992
through May 4, 1992.

Claudia Aquino, Bachelors Degree. Gamboa, assist with the
project: “Biodiversity of Parque Nacional Soberania”,
January 15, 1992 through April 15, 1992.

Adrian Badilla, Bachelors Degree. Naos Marine Laboratory, as-
sist with the project: “Preliminary evaluation of the ar-
cheological site Cerro Juan Diaz, Herrera, Panama”,
January 15, 1992 through April 15, 1992.

57
Amaya Bernardez, Bachelors Degree. San Blas, assist with the
project: “Testing Current Models of Group Size Using the
Caribbean Striped Parrotfish, Scarus iserti”, February 12,
1992 through May 12, 1992.

Edgar Coral, Masters Candidate, University of Pennsylvania.
June 8, 1992 through August 14, 1992.

Marc Dantzker, Bachelors Candidate, University of Texas.
Gamboa, assist with the Tungara Frog project, May 15, 1992
through August 15, 1992.

Manuel Demaria, Bachelors Degree. Gamboa, assist with
Jacana Project, February 2, 1992 through April 30, 1992.

Nicholas Eckert, Bachelors Candidate, Georgetown University.
Development Office—Washington, DC, develop a proposal
for STRI's Center for Tropical Forest Science, and also to re-
search potential funding sources; implement the STRI master
bibliography, January 30, 1992 through May 31, 1992.

Ilean Isaza, Bachelors Candidate, Univ. Autonoma de
Guadelajara, Naos Labs, Evaluacion estilistica y
crodologica de la ceramica aequeologica de la region
central de Panama, August 22, 1992 through June 22,
1993.

Shizue Kira, Bachelors Candidate, American University.
Washington, DC office, develop photo, slide, and video
library to support development initiatives; general office
support, January 28, 1992 through April 24, 1992.

Diego Lombeida, Bachelors Candidate, Pontificia Univer-
sidad Catolica. Gamboa, assist with the Tungara Frog
project, May 15, 1992 through August 15, 1992.

Omar Lopez, Bachelors Candidate, Universidad de Panama.
Assist with the project: “Consequences of leaf lifetime for
photosynthetic physiology, secondary metabolism, and
anatomy in tropical plants”, October 21, 1991 through
January 21, 1992.

Katherine Myint-Hpu, Bachelors Candidate, Vassar College.
Naos, assist with analysis of archaeobotanical materials
from various sites throughout Panama, July 13, 1992
through August 24, 1992.

Marcela Olivera, Bachelors Degree. Barro Colorado Island, assist
with project: “Diversity, Community Structure, and Ener-
getics in a Neotropical Rainforest Canopy and Assemblage”,
July 1, 1992 through October 1, 1992.

Marielos Pena, Bachelors Degree. Barro Colorado Island, assist
with the project: “Rapid Assessment of Tropical Forest”,
February 8, 1992 through May 8, 1992.

Lori Pierce, Bachelors Candidate, Ouachita Baptist
University. Development Office, compile and organize
STRI-DC master slide and photograph library;
develop slide shows which represent STRI research
programs; general office support, June 15, 1992
through August 14, 1992.

Ricardo Racines, Bachelors Degree. Barro Colorado Island,
assist with project: “The role of diseases in population
dynamics in several species of trees” and “Mechanical
damage on trees saplings by falling branches”, May 7,
1992 through October 7, 1992.

58

Arts and Humanities

Office of the Assistant Secretary for
Arts and Humanities

Heather Dean, Bachelors Candidate, George Washington
University. Joseph Henry Papers, developed an annotated
bibliography for, nad wrote paper on “The Social and Cul-
tural Milieu of Washington, 1845-1860” June 1, 1992
through July 31, 1992.

Mary Derrick-Mescua, Doctoral Degree. Develop an an-
notated bibliography for the book, “Planning Museum
Careers”, October 25, 1991 through October 30, 1992.

Dagny Glover, Masters Degree. International Gallery, to as-
sist in the design and inplementation of educational and
public programming in conjuction with the Imperial
Austria Exhibition, August 17, 1992 through February
15, 1992.

Dagny Glover, Masters Degree. Institutional Studies, will
work with the staff on a range of studies especially those in-
volving audience studies in the planning and interpretive
strategies developed for exhibitions, August 24, 1992
through June 30, 1993.

Richard Hope, Bachelors Candidate, Syracuse University.
African-American Museum Project, assist on the project,
June 1, 1992 through August 7, 1992.

Chad Stone, Masters Candidate, Washington State University.
Joseph Henry Papers, research paper, “Congressional Views
and Actions Toward Science in the 1850's,” May 18, 1992
through July 19, 1992.

Anacostia Museum

Tameka Dunn, High School Graduate. Office of Education,
answer telephones, light typing, and filing, June 29, 1992
through August 30, 1992.

Nicole Jones, High School Graduate. Office of Education, as-
sist with the nature walk and other educational activities,
including mailing list data, filing, and answering phones,
June 29, 1992 through August 30, 1992.

Deidre Lee, High School Graduate. Office of Education,
OESE Intern '92, registrarial and collections management;
accessing and cataloging of objects; rehouse objects and
design archival boxes, July 13, 1992 through August 14,
1992.
Archives of American Art

Frederick Antil, Bachelors Degree. Photographs, research and
cataloguing prints and negatives, February 10, 1992
through June I, 1992.

Lisa Harcourt Black, Bachelors Degree, Colby College. Will
assist in the preparation of a guide to the Archives’ collec-
tions by conducting research in the papers, writing descrip-
tions of their findings, proofing and editing the work of
other interns, indexing, etc., September 14, 1992 through
December 18, 1992.

Monica Cheslak, Bachelors Degree. Will be doing research
under the direction of Deputy Director Susan Hamilton,
April 6, 1992 through June 6, 1992.

Jeannette M. Daly, Bachelors Candidate, Stockton State Col-
lege. Will assist in the preparation of a guide to the
Archives’ collections by conducting research in the papers,
writing descriptions of their findings, proofing and editing
the work of other interns, indexing, etc., September 8, 1992
through December 18, 1992.

Merlin Douglas, Bachelors Candidate, Portland State Univer-
sity. Read diaries and note contents for preparation of an
index, January 13, 1992 through March 17, 1992.

Laurin Gentry, Bachelors Degree. Will assist in the in the
preparation of the guide to the Archives’s collections by
conducting research in the papers, writing descriptions of
their findings, proofing and editing the work of other inter-
ns, indexing, etc., September 8, 1992 through December 18,
1992.

Rachel Glenn, Bachelors Candidate, Hood College. Edit the
writing of other interns for various guide publications,

January 27, 1992 through May 8, 1992.

Karen Glickman, Bachelors Candidate, Washington Univer-
sity. Prepare descriptions of papers relating to government
and the arts for publication in a guide, January 27, 1992
through May 8, 1992.

Kelly Gray, Bachelors Degree. Search archives holdings for
papers relating to government and the arts; prepare descrip-
tion of such papers for publication in a guide, June 8, 1992
through August 14, 1992.

Kristin Hartman, Bachelors Candidate, Towson State Univer-
sity. Manuscripts, translation and summarization of Walter
Pach papers, February 10, 1992 through March 30, 1992.

Danielle Katz, Bachelors Candidate, University of Califor-
nia—Santa Barbara. Serve as editor for various intern
projects, mainly preparation of a guide to papers re: govern-
ment and the arts; review work of other projects; look for
conformity to Archives style requirements, standard gram-
mar, factual error, clarity, etc., June 22, 1992 through
August 21, 1992.

Rebecca Lilly, Bachelors Degree. Search archives holdings for
papers relating to government and the arts; prepare descrip-
tion of such papers for publication in a guide, June 8, 1992
through August 14, 1992.

Meredith O'Connor, Bachelors Candidate, Mount Holyoke
College. Conduct historical research into some of AAA's
most significant collections, institutional records, identify
major artist's correspondence and important exhibition
records resulting in better catalog entries in RLIN, June 8,
1992 through August 14, 1992.

Kerry Wilkey, Bachelors Degree. Research archival sources
and prepare descriptions of documents found, January 27,
1992 through April 31, 1992.

Cheryl Williams, Bachelors Degree. Photographs, assist with
research for upcoming exhibition “The Telling Lmage:
Photographs from the Collections of the Archives of
American Art” to open in January of 1993 at the National
Portrait Gallery, June 29, 1992 through October 2, 1992.

Arthur M. Sackler and Freer
Gallery of Art

Lina Abirafeh, High School Student, The Madeira School.
Department of Photography, assist with filing and printing
of pictures and duties assigned, October 2, 1991 through
June 31, 1992.

Jennie Alwood, Masters Candidate, George Washington
University. Department of Design and Production, an in
depth introduction to the processes involved in the design
and production of temporary and permanent exhibitions at
a major institution, January 22, 1992 through May 29, 1992.

Kimberly Brown, Bachelors Candidate, Stephens College. Of-
fice of Exhibits Design, hands on opportunity to build and
construct an Ancient Japanese exhibit; learn about architec-
tural design, case design, and gallery design, June 1, 1992
through August 31, 1992.

Yoshiko Fujii, Bachelors Degree. Department of Conserva-
tion, learn about the conservation of East Asian paintings;
gain a better understanding of the materials and techniques
used in Asian paintings, and how the paintings suffer
deterioration and are cared for, June 1, 1992 through
August 7, 1992.

Kyung-min Han, Bachelors Degree. Curatorial, research and
translations of Korean-language documents relating to the
Korean collections in the Freer Gallery of Art, February 5,
1992 through April 21, 1992.

Jayne Girod Holt, Bachelors Candidate. Will gain experience
in paper conservation, to help with the conservation of
paper objects in the Freer and Sackler collections including
preparation for the reopening exhibition of the Freer Gal-
lery, September 9, 1992 through September 30, 1993.

Heung Lan Kot, Masters Candidate, George Washington
University. Office of the Registrar, review the object record
files for a portion of the Chinese collections; determine
where certain specific information is missing from the files,

59
research that information, and add it to the files, June 1,
1992 through July 31, 1992.

Jennifer Ann Kozel, Bachelors Degree. Assisting family and
school programs as well as Saturday, September 14, 1992
through December 23, 1992.

Mark Levine, Bachelors Candidate, Oberlin College. Depart-
ment of Chinese Art, assist the curator in organizing
materials for a loan exhibition of Chinese porcelain,
January 6, 1992 through January 31, 1992.

Scott Longley, Bachelors Candidate, University of Connec-
ticut. Chinese Art, assist curator in maintaining and updat-
ing files on Chinese objects in the collections; help draft
correspondence responding to public inquiries about
Chinese art, May 21, 1992 through August 21, 1992.

James Love, Masters Candidate, George Washington Univer-
sity. Office of Public Affairs, develop marketing plan to
reintroduce the Freer Gallery of Art to tour operators, tour
guides, and hotel concierges prior to the May, 1993 reopen-
ing, June 1, 1992 through September 15, 1992.

Eliav Nahlieli, Visiting Professional, Tel-Aviv University.
Office of Design, work with designers to learn how designs
are developed and produced at a major American Institu-
tion; participate as part of the design team for the Ancient
Japan exhibition, October 16, 1991 through November 8,
1991.

Emily Patton, High School Student, Glenelg Country School.
Office of Education, assist with set-up and preparation for
the Teacher Workshop and Family Program, June 16, 1992
through September 30, 1992.

Leland Smith, Bachelors Candidate, Oberlin College. Depart-
ment of Chinese Art, assist the curator in organizing
materials for a loan exhibition of Chinese porcelain,
January 6, 1992 through January 31, 1992.

Julia Stevenson, Bachelors Degree. Department of Conserva-
tion, June 12, 1992 through September 30, 1992.

Jill Waller, Bachelors Degree. Office of Public Affairs,
develop targeted mailing lists for Freer Gallery of Art
reopening; work on press releases for Japanese galleries,
June 22, 1992 through

September 15, 1992.

Robin Wallace, Bachelors Candidate, University of California,
Santa Cruz. Office of Education, develop and design ac-
tivity sheets for exhibition of Chinese porcelain, August 3,
1992 through September 7, 1992.

Chien-ing Wu, Bachelors Candidate, Duke University.
Curatorial, assistance for the Ancient Japan exhibition of
the Sackler, July 6, 1992 through August 14, 1992.

Frances Yuan, Bachelors Degree. Research and Curatorial,
assist with exhibitions, June 15, 1992 through August 21,
1992.

60

Cooper-Hewitt Museum

Claire Catherine Dienes, Bachelors Degree, Smith College.
Peter Kruger Summer Intern, Department of Exhibitions,
assisted with research for the exhibition The Power of Maps,
June 8, 1992 through August 14, 1992.

Katy Edson, Masters Candidate, Bank Street College od
Education. Department of Education, assisted with the
development and research for education materials for the
exhibition The Power of Maps, February 1, 1992 through May
30, 1992.

Claudia Gisolfi, Bachelors Degree. Yale University. Design
Library, assisted with sorting and labeling the Metzig Ar-
chive, July 6, 1992 through August 28, 1992.

Christine Giviskos, Bachelors Candidate, Stanford University.
Department of Exhibitions, assisted with research for the
exhibition The Power of Maps, June 15, 1992 through August
21, 1992.

Julie De Jesus, Bachelors Candidate, Brooklyn College.
Department of Drawing and Prints, catalogued various
collections, June 15, 1992 through August 31, 1992.

Miriam Katz, Bachelors Candidate, Rhode Island School of
Design. Peter Kruger Summer Intern, Department of Tex-
tiles, assisted with the organization and cataloguing of the
Textile Collection, June 8, 1992 through August 14, 1992.

Susan Kelman, Masters Candidate, Bank Street College of
Education. Peter Kruger Summer Intern, Department of
Education, assisted with the preparation for educational
materials for the exhibition The Power of Maps, June 8, 1992
through August 14, 1992.

Eva Kruft, Bachelors Candidate, Barnard College. Depart-
ment of Drawings and Prints, cataloguing architectural
drawings ranging from the period of the Renaissance to
modern, January 30, 1992 through May 31, 1992.

Ha Lim Lee, Bachelors Candidate, Barnard College. Depart-
ment of Drawings and Prints, cataloguing architectural
drawings ranging from the period of the Renaissance to
modern, February 21, 1992 through May 13, 1992.

Christopher Scott Malstead, Bachelors Candidate, Columbia
University. Peter Kruger Summer Intern, Department of
Drawings and Prints, researched and catalogued Drawing
and Print collections, June 8, 1992 through August 14, 1992.

Suzanne Mathis, Masters Candidate, University of Akron. Of-
fice of Admissions and Museum Shop, worked on product
development, June 8, 1992 through August 14, 1992.

Marla Musick. Department of Exhibitions, assisted in the
preparation of the exhibition The Power of Maps, assign-
ments included research, documentation, and assistance
with ongoing aspects of the exhibition, March 3, 1992
through May 3, 1992.

Ayako Nezu, Bachelors Candidate, Wesleyan University.
Department of Exhibitions, collecting and arranging data
on injuries to children in Harlem for exhibition, The Power
of Maps, June 8, 1992 through August 14, 1992.
Camille She, Bachelors Candidate, Stanford University.
Department of Contemporary Design, researched an histori-
cal survey relating gender issues to the design of cities,
neighborhoods, and residential living units, June 6, 1992
through August 14, 1992.

Cristine Sherman, Masters Candidate, Columbia University.
Department of Drawings and Prints, assisted in all aspects
from cataloguing to development, in the coordination and
preparation of the 1993 Donald Deskey and industrial
design exhibition, June 8, 1992 through August 14, 1992.

Christa Mary Sidman, Bachelors Candidate, Earlham College.
Conservation Deparment, researched grants for the Depart-
ment, June 18, 1992 through August 21, 1992

Tamela Simpson, Masters Candidate, University of Kansas.
Department of Education, assisted with the preliminary re-
search for the fall 1993 program series, June 8, 1992 through
August 14, 1992.

Kristel Smentek, Masters Candidate, University of Delaware.
Peter Kruger Summer Intern, Department of Wallcover-
ings, acted as a research assistant for the exhibition, June 8,
1992 through August 14, 1992.

Lindsay Myers Smith, Bachelors Candidate, University of Vir-
ginia. Department of Drawing and Prints, assisted with re-
search and documentation of the drawings by industrial
designer, Henry Dreyfus, June 8, 1992 through August 14,
1992.

Heather Lynne Thomas, Bachelors Candidate, Barnard Col-
lege/Columbia University. Department of Drawings and
Prints, miscellaneous inventory/cataloguing duties, March
3, 1992 through May 15, 1992.

Ellisa Whitley, Bachelors Candidate, Columbia College.
Minority Internship Grant recipient, Department of Con-
temporary Design, picture and bibliographic research for
the upcoming exhibition, June 8, 1992 through August 14,
1992.

Experimental Gallery

Alice Acemyan, Bachelors Candidate, Stanford University.
Working behind the scenes in Marketing, Public Relations
and Publicity. Also involved in informal tours as an ex-
plainer, as well as in planning workshops, September 9,
1992 through December 31, 1992.

Hazel Brown, Visiting Professional. Develop pre- and post-
visit materials for grades 4,5,6 which relates to the exhibi-
tion, “Kids Bridge” goals and content to the DC School
District's middle school curriculum, July 6, 1992 through
August 14, 1992.

Naeemah Carter, High School Student, Eastern Senior High
School. Serve as an explainer to the public, June 30, 1992
through August 7, 1992.

Emma Coates, Visiting Professional. Develop pre- and post-
visit materials for grades 4,5,6 which relates to the exhibi-
tion, “Kids Bridge” goals and content to the DC School
District's middle school curriculum, July 6, 1992 through
August 14, 1992.

Rebecca Duclos, Masters Candidate, University of Toronto.
Experimental Gallery, work on planning, interpretation,
and implementation for gallery exhibits; design assistance,
community programs, etc., June 9, 1992 through Septem-
ber 9, 1992.

Nancy Kok, Bachelors Candidate, George Washington
University. Experimental Gallery, work as an evaluator for
the APA Psychology exhibition “Understanding Ourselves
and Each Other”, June 15, 1992 through August 21, 1992.

Antoinette Lee, High School Student, William McKinley
Senior High School. Work in the Discovery area assisting
with different problem solving activities, June 30, 1992
through August 7, 1992.

Christian Reedy, Bachelors Candidate, Howard University.
Will assist teams in scheduling and presenting educational
and public programs; including workshops, lectures, gal-
lery talks; and to serve as an explainer in the gallery. Will
also assist in the development production and distribution
of a newsletter for gallery. June 16, 1992 through December
31, 1992.

Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden

Paula Artal-Isbrand, Bachelors Degree. Department of Conser-
vation, outdoor sculpture yearly maintenance, June 10, 1992
through August 14, 1992.

Roberta Buchanan. Masters Candidate, University of
Maryland. Compile information about foundation from
whom the HMSG can seek funding special projects and
prepare grant requests, August 22, 1992 through May 28,
1993.

Helen Costantino, Bachelors Candidate, Duke University.
Department of Education, assist with symposiums and
give museum tours, June 8, 1992 through August 14,
1992.

Hwaik Lee, Masters Candidate, George Washington Univer-
sity. Directed research: American painting since 1945: from
the collection of the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Gar-
den, September 1, 1992 through May 30, 1992.

Jason Molchanow, Bachelors Candidate, Catholic University.
Curatorial, research for a Clyfford Still exhibition, June 8,
1992 through August 14, 1992.

Heather Warren, Bachelors Degree. Curatorial, work with
permanent collection, object research, and more specific
curatorial research, June 9, 1992 through August 18,
1992.

61
National Air and Space Museum

Jennifer Lynn Basker, Bachelors Candidate, Georgetown
University. Intern will translate videotape in Japanese for
the use of restoration crew in restoring a WWII Japanese
aircraft in museum collection, September 14, 1992 through
December 11, 1992.

Leonard Benton, Bachelors Candidate, Howard University.
Department of Astrophysics, assist the laboratory scientists
with measurement tests and data analysis, June 10, 1992
through August 15, 1992, Education Division, present
weekend public science demonstrations, September 5, 1992
through December 13, 1992.

Jeffrey P. Buchheit, Masters Candidate, Southern Illinois
University. Registrars office, will assist with the artifact
location and verification project, updating and verifying
data on the NASM CIS system, coordinating with the sys-
tems administrator and with collections maintenance staff,
August 14, 1992 through December 13, 1992.

Richard Buell, Bachelors Candidate, University of Maryland.
Department of Space History, assist the curator of “Where
Next, Columbus” gallery in researching and developing a
film, “Contact”, January 13, 1992 through March 15, 1992.

Darron Butler, Bachelors Candidate, Parks College. Collec-
tions Management, will assist in the preservation and res-
toration of aerospace artifacts, August 14, 1992 through
December 13, 1992.

Agnes Chatel, Bachelor's Candidate, Universite Joseph
Fourier, France. Laboratory for Astrophysics, working on in-
frared image processing with IRAF, April 6, 1992 through
July 31, 1992.

Blaine Childers, Masters Candidate, California Institute of
Arts. Department of Exhibits, develop graphics for “How
Things Fly” interactive science gallery, June 8, 1992
through August 14, 1992.

Vennie Elizabeth Cluett, Masters Candidate, George
Washington University. Education Division, work with the
“How Things Fly” exhibit planning team, perform photo
research, and assist project leader, January 13, 1992 through
April 23, 1992.

Denise Coggins, Bachelors Candidate, Delaware State College.
Education Division, perform twice-daily science demonstra-
tions for the general public and student groups; assist staff
with photo research for the “How Things Fly” exhibition
gallery, June 8, 1992 through August 29, 1992.

Nathaniel Creek, High School Student, Eastern Senior High
School. Planetarium, answer phones, take tickets, usher,
June 29, 1992 through August 30, 1992.

Elizabeth Dawson, Masters Candidate, University of
Michigan. Intern will assist with the Rudy Arnold Photo
Collection, working with database, rejacketing negatives,
transcribing original captions, possibly researching and
composing additional captions, and helping to produce a
finding aid, September 14, 1992 through December 13, 1992.

62

Vasia Deliyianni, Masters Candidate, George Washington
University. Department of Exhibits, lighting and exhibi-
tion design, February 10, 1992 through April 30, 1992.

Melanie Diez, High School Student, Thomas Jefferson High
School. Laboratory for Astrophysics, assist with infrared
astronomy of young stars and active galaxies, working with
data reduction and analysis on computer work stations, and
related laboratory design and testing, June 15, 1992 through
December 11, 1992.

Mark DiGiacomo, Bachelors Candidate, Florida State University.
Department of Exhibits, assist with film research and interact
with the Screen Actors Guild and local film contractors work-
ing on the films for NASM’s “Where Next, Columbus?” ex-
hibition, June 8, 1992 through August 14, 1992.

Scott Dinsmore, High School Graduate. Education Division,
present daily science demonstrations and assist with
prototyping exhibits for the planned “How Things Fly” gal-
lery, June 15, 1992 through August 21, 1992.

Sarah Donald, Bachelors Degree. Department of Exhibits, as-
sist the lighting designer with drawings of various ele-
ments for the “How Things Fly” and “Where Next,
Columbus?” galleries and prepare CAD file drawings of
various galleries and other spaces throughout NASM, June
1, 1992 through August 7, 1992.

Carl Dornbush, Bachelors Candidate, Embry-Riddle
Aeronautical University. Collection Management, will as-
sist in the preservation and restoration of aerospace ar-
tifacts, September 14, 1992 through December 13, 1992.

Christopher Edwards, High School Graduate. Department of
Exhibits, OESE Intern ‘92: research new equipment, draw-
ings, and plans for proposed exhibits, installing and focus-
ing lighting units for new exhibits and revamp existing
exhibits, July 13, 1992 through August 14, 1992.

Latonya Fields, High School Student. Planetarium, serve as a
theatre aid, June 29, 1992 through August 14, 1992.

Keith Filter, Bachelors Degree. Archives, aid in establishing
physical, intellectual, and legal control of archival collec-
tions; work will include arranging and re-housing, prepar-
ing folder descriptions and labels and performing
preservation tasks, June 8, 1991 through August 14, 1992.

Jason Foshe, Bachelors Candidate, Parks College. Collections
Management, will assist in the preservation and restoration
of aerospace artifacts, September 14, 1992 through Decem-
ber 13, 1992.

Tracy Goldsmith, Bachelors Candidate, College of William
and Mary. Department of Space History, assist curatorial
staff with research on Henry Norris Russell, assessing the
impact of Russell's contributions to the study of stellar
astronomy and astrophysics during the period 1900-1955,
June 8, 1992 through August 14, 1992.

Pamela Grebow, Bachelors Degree. Department of Com-
munications, update museum's publications brochure; re-
search publications awards and grants; update the mailing
lists for publications; write press releases for museum publi-
cations, June 8, 1992 through August 14, 1992.
Jack Green, Masters Candidate, George Washington Univer-
sity. Collections Management, will assist NASM conser-
vator in the Museum's collections, September 14, 1992
through December u1, 1992.

Austin Greene, High School Student, Woodward Academy.
Department of Exhibits, assist staff with silk screening of
labels for “Where Next, Columbus?” gallery, June 15, 1992
through July 1, 1992.

Susan Hefter, Masters Candidate, Catholic University. Library,
prepare an annotated acquisitions list for the museum's
planned

Visitor Resource Center, which will be part of the “How
Things Fly” gallery, June 29, 1992 through August 10, 1992.

Jennifer Herbst, Bachelors Candidate, University of
Maryland. Laboratory of Astrophysics, assist staff with
astronomy and astrophysics research involving data reduc-
tion and analysis, and laboratory development, June 8, 1992
through August 14, 1992.

Karl Hoffman, Bachelors Candidate, Georgetown University.
Office of the Registrar, research curatorial files of acces-
sioned objects in the Aeronautics and Space History Depart-
ments and pull all original registration and
condition/registration documents for the Registrar's files,
June 8, 1992 through August 14, 1992.

Paul Hoffecker, Bachelors Candidate, University of Colorado.
Education Division, research and review resource materials
for curriculum booklets on space physiology and the
planets, work with the curriculum coordinator to develop,
test, and write activities to accompany the space show
public science demonstration, June 8, 1992 through August
14, 1992.

Shannon Hothem, High School Graduate. Office of Computer
Services, OESE Intern ’92: assist in configuring and install-
ing personal computer hardware and software, including
network hardware, June 8, 1992 through July 10, 1992.

Stella Hwang, High School Student, Thomas Jefferson High
School. Laboratory for Astrophysics, work with the infrared
heterodyne team, assisting in data analysis, acquisition, and
interpretation. Studies will include the dynamics and com-
position of planetary atmosphere, September 16, 1992
through June 30, 1993.

Demetryess Inge, High School Student. Langley Theatre,
theatre aide, June 29, 1992 through August 30, 1992.

Martin Jefferson, Bachelors Candidate, Howard University.
Department of Space History, will assist Project Smart
pilot video as a production assistant, September 19, 1992
through December 15, 1992.

Sean Jeralds, Masters Candidate, Embry-Riddle Aeronautical
University. Department of Space History, assist in assessing
the museum's printed inventory files to determine those ar-
tifacts worthy of restoration or exhibition; prepare database
of findings; and present daily public science demonstra-
tions, June 8, 1992 through August 14, 1992.

Amy Kemp, Bachelors Candidate, Northwest Nazarene Col-
lege. Center for Earth and Planetary Studies, compile the

best images of Mars photographed from Viking and
Mariner Spacecraft for several topical categories for use
with NASM's laser videodisc under production, June 15,
1992 through August 14, 1992.

John Krozak, Bachelors Candidate, Embry-Riddle Aeronauti-
cal University. Collection Management, assist in restoration
of historic aircraft and spacecraft, especially the Aichi
MGAI Seiran, the Enola Gay’s right inboard wing, June 8,
1992 through August 14, 1992.

Paul Lagasse, Bachelors Candidate, Regis University. Depart-
ment of Aeronautics, assist with research on the history of
small gas turbine engine industry; search the literature, ac-
quire photographs and documentation, write a report, June
8, 1992 through August 14, 1992.

Derrick Lampkin, Bachelors Candidate, Ohio State Univer-
sity. Center for Earth and Planetary Studies, implement a
FORTRAN computer program applying it to lava flows ob-
served on Earth, Mars, and the Moon by changing condi-
tions to match the different planetary conditions, June 22,
1992 through August 14, 1992.

Julie Landweber, Bachelors Candidate, Reed College. Depart-
ment of Aeronautics, survey instruments in aircraft stored
at the Garber Facility; coordinate material in the curatorial
files; complete accession reports; and preserve archival col-
lections, June 8, 1992 through August 14, 1992.

Lai Lee Li, Masters Degree. Division of Education/Library,
develop annotated bibliographies on selected aerospace sub-
jects for middle school readers and adults for use in Mail
Response Room and Visitor Resource Center in the “How
Things Fly” exhibition gallery; prepare a finder's guide to
photos and printed materials in the Mail Response Room,
May 18, 1992 through July 31, 1992.

Robert Lyons, Bachelors Candidate, Montgomery College.
Department of Exhibits, assist on “Where Next, Colum-
bus?” gallery; design a brochure for the explainer’s pro-
gram, June 8, 1992 through August 14, 1992.

Janice MacKinnon, Visiting Professional. Department of
Education, create annotated bibliographies by researching,
ordering, and reviewing resource materials for two cur-
riculum booklets on space physiology and environmental
studies, July 6, 1992 through August 14, 1992.

Carol Mahan, Bachelors Candidate, Texas A&M University.
Einstein Planetarium, develop a planetarium presentation
for young children to be incorporated into the museum's
school programs and will assist with the planetarium’s out-
reach to Girl Scouts, September 14, 1992 through Decem-
ber 13, 1992.

Sarah Mattis, Bachelors Candidate, George Mason University.
Art Department, assist with the maintenance of the NASM
art Collection, loan program, and office functions; organize
and label photographs, research artists for additions to the
art database, and inventory art collections, June 8, 1992
through August 14, 1992.

Liv Meissner, Bachelors Candidate, American University.
Communications Department, prepare public service an-

63
nouncements, weekly news digest, press releases, possible
Torch article, and answer public inquiries about the
museum and its programs and exhibits, May 20, 1992
through August 14, 1992.

Nancy Michaelsen, Masters Candidate, University of
Maryland. Center for Earth and Planetary Studies, assess
forest damage and loss caused by air pollution in Czechos-
lovakia, June 8, 1992 through December 14, 1992.

Douglas Miller, Bachelors Candidate, Princeton University.
Collections Management Department, assist on preserva-
tion an re-housing of the museum's collection of aircraft en-
gines, June 15, 1992 through August 14, 1992.

Luis Obregon, Bachelors Candidate, National Museums of
Guatemala. Department of Exhibits, assist with the “Star
Trek Commemorative Exhibit” design and construction,
December 10, 1991 through December 31, 1991.

David Oliver, Bachelors Candidate, University of Maryland.
Laboratory for Astrophysics, develop an educational
software package on the Mac for classroom use, May 26,
1992 through December U1, 1992.

Verena Olson, Bachelors Candidate, Washington University.
Exhibits Department, assist on “How Things Fly” gallery
with model making and drafting for exhibit and gallery in-
stallation, June 8, 1992 through August 14, 1992.

Michele Ploessel, Bachelors Candidate, University of Califor-
nia, Santa Cruz. Center for Earth and Planetary Studies, as-
sess literature on the thickness and volume of mare deposits
on the far side on the moon, learn how photos of the moon
have been obtained form the Lunar Obiter and Apollo mis-
sion and find available images; generate an isopach map of
mare thicknesses, June 8, 1992 through August 14, 1992.

Donald Porter, Bachelors Candidate, Parks College. Collec-
tions Management, assist in restoration and preservation
tasks including documenting the restoration process by
video, still photographs, June 8, 1992 through August 14,
1992.

Melissa Raff, Bachelors Candidate, Skidmore College. Educa-
tion Resource Center, work with teachers, assisting them as
they preview and copy computer software; evaluate and sug-
gest additions to the collection; assist in general operations
of the center, June 8, 1992 through August 14, 1992.

David Roy, Masters Candidate, Embry-Riddle Aeronautical
University. Collections Management Department, will as-
sist in the preservation and restoration of aerospace artifacts
in the Museums's collections; and perform week day public
science demonstrations, September 14, 1992 through
December 11, 1992.

Michael Ruzicka, Bachelors Degree, Montana State Univer-
sity. Wide range of photographic duties including: assign-
ment reproduction, printing, and laboratory tasks and
support to the staff, August 31, 1992 through September 31,
1993.

Andrew Schneider, Bachelors Candidate, University of
Chicago. Department of Aeronautics, assist with library
and archival research into the accomplishments of Giulio

64

Douhet (1869-1930), one of the earliest proponents of
strategic bombing, June 8, 1992 through August 14, 1992.

Eryn Scott, High School Student, Benjamin Banneker High
School. Archives, restoration, conservation, and cataloguing
of items in Warshaw collection of Business Americana.
August 10, 1992 through June 30, 1993.

Stacy Sukov, Bachelors Candidate, University of Pennsylvania.
Cooperative Programs, develop a catalog of air and space
museums in the US and abroad; design a format, review
existing information, research missing information, and
verify final copy with museums; develop marketing list for
the catalog, June 8, 1992 through August 14, 1992.

Erik Thogersen, Bachelors Degree. Education Division,
present science demonstrations to visitors and assist with
the development of exhibits for the “How Things Fly”
hands-on science gallery, June 15, 1992 through August 21,
1992.

Robert Thomas, Bachelors Candidate, Texas A&M University.
Collections Management Department, will assist in the
preservation and restoration of aerospace artifacts in the
Museum's collections, September 14, 1992 through Decem-
ber 17, 1992.

Alan Vance, Bachelors Degree. Office of Exhibits, assist with
graphics for the “Star Trek” exhibition, January 23, 1992
through February 28, 1992.

Robert Weihrauch, Bachelors Candidate, Parks College. Col-
lections Management, assist in restoration of historic
aircraft and spacecraft, especially the Aichi M6A1 Seiran,
the Enola Gay’s right inboard wing, June 8, 1992 through
August 14, 1992.

Amy Willats, Bachelors Degree. Department of Interpretive
Programs, develop a planetarium presentation for middle
school students in the Einstein Planetarium and organize
its slide collection and flat files of astronomical materials,

June 8, 1992 through August 14, 1992.

Richard Yao, High School Graduate, Westminster School,
OESE Intern ‘92. Department of Space History, work with
materials dealing with the technology of manned
spaceflight in order to organize and prepare research
materials for archival records; assist with care and storage of
space suits, June 8, 1992 through July 10, 1992.

National Museum of African Art

Bongi Bengu, Bachelors Candidate, Mount Vernon College.
Exhibits Office, will observe and participate in: silkscreen
production, photographing & lighting of museum objects,
object installation. Will assist supervisor in budget,
schedule and contract development. In addition, intern will
compile a production handbook, outlining the principles
observed and outline the production steps in each area, Sep-
tember 10, 1992 through December 10, 1992.
Pedra Chaffers, Bachelors Degree. Department of Education,
assist in the coordination of two summer workshops; assist
in the development of teacher materials and curriculum
development of a summer course for educators, June 1, 1992
through August 18, 1992.

Beatrice Couanne, Bachelors Degree. Office of Exhibits, assist
in the development of graphics for an exhibition, assist
with final lighting as well as in the production of paste-up
work and layouts, January 21, 1992 through March 27, 1992.

Celeste De Wald, Bachelors Degree. Office of Education, assist
on creation of a handbook of objects in the permanent col-
lection for docents, June 22, 1992 through August 21, 1992.

Lisa Kluth, Bachelors Candidate, Gallaudet University.
Department of Education, assist in research, development
and writing of a teacher's packet for the September teacher
workshop: “Woven Treasures: Creating Ewe Cloth”; assist
in developing a slide kit & related informational material
for the workshop; assist in research and development of a
family guide to the museum's permanent collection, July 6,
1992 through August 31, 1992.

Cory Micots, Master’s Candidate, Cleveland State University.
Will assist the Curatorial department in researching 85
masks for an upcoming exhibition: “The Face of the
Spirits: Masks from the Zaire Basin.” Also, will update an
illustrated and annotated bibliography on the source, sig-
nificance and use of color in Africa for publication, August
14, 1992 through November 20, 1992.

Rebecca Marie Molholt, Bachelor’s Degree, Clark University.
Will assist Curator of Archives in the duplication, catalogu-
ing, and housing of the Drewel/Thompson Collection. In
addition, intern will be entering collection data in a
database, and will be doing guided reading concerning
Yoruba art, September 8, 1992 through December 31, 1992.

Denise Mortimer, Bachelors Candidate, Wesleyan University.
Photographic Archives, assist with a survey of African pic-
torial holdings, June 8, 1992 through August 14, 1992.

Kimberly Scott, Bachelors Degree. Curatorial Department, as-
sist in the research of three individual projects for the
curatorial department, June 1, 1992 through August 7, 1992.

Mary Shane, Bachelors Candidate, University of West Florida.
Department of Education, create a handbook of objects in
the museum's Permanent Collection gallery for docents,
June 1, 1992 through August 7, 1992.

Dylan Smith, Bachelors Degree. Department of Conservation,
basic conservation technique, ethics and responsibilities,
care and handling of ethnographic art, preventative main-
tenance conservation, environmental control and conserva-
tion technique, June 15, 1992 through August 24, 1992.

Gregg Theobald, Bachelors Candidate, Wabash College. As-
sociate Director, assist in the research and preparation of
materials for the publication of the NMAfA permanent col-
lection, June 15, 1992 through August 21, 1992.

Konrad Tuchscherer, Masters Candidate, University of Lon-
don. Archives, assist with preparations for the “Elmina” ex-
hibition, opening October, 1992; guided research and

reading on the history of Elmina, compile visual materials
related to Elmina history and learn how to interpret these
materials critically; compile biographies of important
African traders and their wives, July 13, 1992 through
August 31, 1992.

Jens Westerfeld, Masters Candidate, Freie Universitat-Berlin.
Archives, assist in cataloguing the Gulla Kell Pfeffer Col-
lection; including identifying and labeling about 400
photographs, transcribe letters, and research a film made
by the collector, February 10, 1992 through April 17, 1992.

Megan MaGuire Wilkinson, Bachelor’s Candidate, Towson
State University. Associate Director, will assist in research
and preparation of materials for the publication of an an-
thology of NMAFA's permanent collections. Assignments
will include general readings on African Art, and specific
library and archival research on works of art.

National Museum of American Art

Kim Abrahamson, Masters Candidate, American University.
NMAA Advanced Museum Training Program, September
8, 1992 through April 28, 1993

Alexis Alcott, High School Graduate. Research, OESE Intern
‘92: work with the permanent collection database evaluat-
ing and editing records for an upcoming exhibition, July
13, 1992 through August 14, 1992.

Ama Amoaka, High School Student, Potomac High School.
General overview of museum registration, May 4, 1992
through May 31, 1992.

Laura Baptiste, Bachelors Candidate, Tufts University.
Division of Graphics Art, assist with the general projects,
June 1, 1992 through July 24, 1992.

Tamara Bechara, High School Student, Potomac High School.
General overview of museum registration, May 4, 1992
through May 31, 1992.

Gretchen Bender, Masters Candidate, American University.
NMAA Advanced Museum Training Program, September
8, 1992 through April 23, 1993.

Megan Burness, Bachelors Candidate, University of Michigan.
Office of the Registrar, assist the office on all levels with
general registrarial responsibilities, June 1, 1992 through
July 24, 1992.

Courtney Deangelis, Masters Candidate, American University.
NMAA Advanced Museum Training Program, September
8, 1992 through April 23, 1993.

Lisa Donnelly, Masters Candidate, George Washington
University. NMAA Advanced Museum Training Program,
September 8, 1992 through April 23, 1992.

Mona Foad, Bachelors Degree. Curatorial, assist in prepara-
tions for exhibitions, “Free Within Ourselves” and
“Romare Bearden”, June 1, 1992 through July 24, 1992.

65
Kevin Foley, Bachelors Candidate, University of Massachusetts.
Division of Design and Production, assist on all levels with re-
installation projects, June 1, 1992 through July 24, 1992.

Adam Frelin, High School Graduate. Office of the Registrar,
OESE Intern '92: assist the staff in the daily work ranging
from filing records and entering data to moving artwork or
crates, June 8, 1992 through July 10, 1992.

Heather Glenn, Bachelors Degree. Graphic Arts, assist in
graphic arts, education, and general curatorial departments,
January 13, 1992 through April 24, 1992.

Lynn Hawkins, Masters Candidate, Tulane University. Intern
Programs, advanced level museum training program,
January 27, 1992 through May 8, 1992.

Kimberly Hedges, Masters Candidate, American University.
Department of Painting and Sculpture, research assistant,
January 13, 1992 through May 8, 1992.

David Hinkson, High School Graduate. Curatorial, OESE In-
tern '92: assist with preparation for public programs for the
exhibition titled “Chicano Art: Resistance and Affirma-
tion”, June 8, 1992 through July 10, 1992.

Michele Hoffman, Masters Candidate, University of
Maryland. Library, Ferdinand Perret Collection archival
processing, January 28, 1992 through May 31, 1992.

Caryn Houghton, Masters Candidate, Brigham Young Univer-
sity. NMAA Advanced Museum Training Program, Sep-
tember 8, 1992 through April 23, 1993.

Masadm Igarashi, Visiting Professional, Seeon Museum of
Art. Division of Graphic Arts, oriental influences on
American prints, January 21, 1992 through April 30,
1992.

Joan James, Masters Candidate, University of Illinois. NMAA
Advanced Museum Training Program, September 8, 1992
through April 23, 1993.

Ann Kenny, Masters Candidate, American University. NMAA
Advanced Museum Training Program, September 8, 1992
through April 23, 1993.

Elizabeth Kirk, Masters Candidate, American University.
NMAA Advanced Museum Training Program, September
8, 1992 through April 23, 1993.

Lara Milavickas, Bachelors Candidate, Ohio University. Office
of the Registrar, assist in the shipping office, storage office,
and Rights and Reproduction Office, November 15, 1991
through December 20, 1991.

Ana Montoya, Bachelors Degree. Curatorial, assist with
preparation for public programs for “Chicano Art” exhibi-
tion, June 1, 1992 through August 7, 1992.

Lia Nalbantidov, Bachelors Degree. Intern Programs, project
in the Office of Research Support, January 31, 1992 through
May 8, 1992.

Jerry Potocnik, Bachelors Candidate, University of Kansas. Office
of the Registrar, assist the office on all levels with general
registrarial responsibilities, June 1, 1992 through July 24, 1992.

Laura Schwartz, Bachelors Candidate, University of California-
San Diego. Library, general overview of the workings of an
arts library, June 8, 1992 through August 31, 1992.

66

Rachel Seligman, Masters Candidate, George Washington
University. NMAA Advanced Museum Training Program,
September 8, 1992 through April 23, 1993.

April Sommers, Masters Candidate, American University.
NMAA Advanced Museum Training Program, September
8, 1992 through April 23, 1993.

Sarah Stillpass, Bachelors College, Smith College. Will be
working with the curator of photography in the NMAA on
the exhibition of the “American Surrealist Photographers”,
September 8, 1992 through December 18, 1992.

Laura Taylor, Bachelors Candidate, De Paul University.
Museum Programs, public programming for Romare Bear-
den exhibition, June 8, 1992 through August 3, 1992.

Julie Wolfe, Masters Candidate, George Washington Univer-
sity. NMAA Advanced Museum Training, September 8,
1992 through April 23, 1992.

Kenneth Yazzie, Masters Candidate, University of Colorado.
NMAA Advanced Museum Training Program, September
8, 1992 through April 23, 1992.

National Museum of American History

Crystal Anderson, Bachelors Candidate, College of William
and Mary. Computer Information Society, compile informa-
tion for a new computer from Intergraph to assist tourists
in finding their way around the museum, May U1, 1992
through August 7, 1992.

Whitney Ashby, High School Graduate. Department of
Armed Forces History, OESE Intern '92: work with collec-
tions of uniforms, insignia art; care of collections and assist
with mounting exhibitions, July 13, 1992 through August
14, 1992.

Alison Barnes, Bachelors Candidate, Salisbury State Univer-
sity. Department of Education, assist in organizing a small
reference library for development of high school museum
studies curriculum; provide support for Young Interpreters
Program, June I, 1992 through August 27, 1992.

Shay Bauman, Bachelors Candidate, Florida State University.
Department of Education, assist with background research
on I-2 units under development; work on the Manhattan
Project, Biotechnology; participate as a member of the
development team, brainstorming ideas; assist with hosting
teachers form west, New York, and the DC area, May 19,
1992 through July 7, 1992.

Eric Beauchesne, Bachelors Candidate, Marymount Univer-
sity. Department of Education, assist in planning and
fabrication of exhibits, and participation in the interpreta-
tion program, January 9, 1992 through April 24, 1992.

Alison Beck, Bachelors Degree. Department of Public
Programs, assist in the Discovery Room as well as work on
various educational projects, February 4, 1992 through
April 10, 1992.
Jennifer Biancaniello, Bachelors Degree. Division of Political
History, work in a variety of settings and situation in
division gaining experience in collections, ranging from
the Scopes Trial to the World’s Fair 1939 in the areas of col-
lections management, June 15, 1992 through August 15,
1992.

Sara Bork, Bachelors Degree. Division of Medical Science,
help catalogue objects in collections of health sciences
equipment; measure, describe, and photograph objects and
add them to computerized inventory list, June 8, 1992
through July 10, 1992.

Christopher Bradley, Bachelors Candidate, Randolph-Macon
College. Department of Transportation, assist in re-housing
half-built models; monitor and maintain artifacts in the
Hall of American Maritime History, June 29, 1992 through
August 13, 1992.

Julie Brandt, Bachelors Candidate, University of Maryland.
Internship and Fellowship Office, work on intern roster for
summer of '92; give orientation tours and lectures; organize
the intern bulletin board in the intern office, June 1, 1992
through August 31, 1992.

Sharon Braslaw, Bachelors Candidate, University of Michigan.
Division of Domestic Life, assist with the care of the collec-
tions and upkeep of the permanent exhibition “After the
Revolution: Everyday Life in America, 1780-1800", June 1,
1992 through July 31, 1992.

Dawn Brown, High School Student, Duke Ellington School
of Arts. Office of Public Programs, help visitors understand
American history through interpretation, June 29, 1992
through August 7, 1992.

Kristin Brown, Bachelors Candidate, Smith College. Assist-
ing in the research for upcoming exhibit in science &
society in the United States, September 8, 1992 through
December 18, 1992.

Jennifer Bunge, Bachelors Candidate, Hood College. Division
of Domestic Life, participate in management of the collec-
tions and in the revisions to “After the Revolution”,
January 28, 1992 through May 8, 1992.

Sean Burch, Bachelors Degree. Department of Political His-
tory, research concerning the 19th century exhibition as
well as sports in the 19th century, July 6, 1992 through
August 28, 1992.

Marc Carbonneau, Bachelors Candidate, George Washington
University. Will perform research for “Rock & Roll” exhibi-
tion for search of Billboard Magazine 1945-1955, September
21, 1992 through December 18, 1992.

Megan Carr, Bachelors Candidate, Amherst College. Division
of Armed Forces History, research, photograph, document,
and rehouse the 19th century military epaulets; assist with
the mounting of the showcase exhibit: “American Women
and War” and “G.I. the American Soldier Experience in
WWII", June 1, 1992 through July 31, 1992.

Pamela Carter, Bachelors Candidate, Smith College. Assisting in
the exhibit “Impact of Industrialization on 19th C. American
Life”, September 8, 1992 through December 18, 1992.

Evelyn Causey, Bachelors Candidate, Bryn Mawr College.
Department of Social and Cultural History, assist in
development of a feasibility study for the “American
Festival” exhibition by conducting artifacts and graphics
research related to various themes of the exhibition, June
29, 1992 through September 15, 1992.

Benjamin Ceja, High School Graduate. Department of
Numismatics, OESE Intern ‘92: assist staff by typing up
labels for part of the collection; assist in conservation of
paper notes and arranging photo archives, July 13, 1992
through August 14, 1992.

Mary Cheek, Bachelors Candidate. Division of Community
Life, process Orth World's Fair Collection; research for ex-
hibit on the social origins of Rock and Roll in Memphis,
May 18, 1992 through July 31, 1992.

Stacy Coates, Bachelors Candidate, Howard University. Ar-
chives Center, organize and processing of the audio-visual
records of the program in African-American Culture collec-
tion, June 8, 1992 through August 14, 1992.

Daniela Cos, Bachelors Degree. Department of Conservation,
conservation work with American Military Uniforms, June
8, 1992 through July 31, 1992.

Anna Deeny, Bachelors Candidate, Shepherd College. Depart-
ment of Music History, cataloguing chamber music
programs, June 23, 1992 through August 13, 1992.

Natalia de Pierola, Bachelors Candidate, University of
Washington. As assistant internship and fellowship coor-
dinator. Natalia will document through color black &
white photographs the museum internship program, Sep-
tember 29, 1992 through December 8, 1992.

Tracie Rae Derwin, Bachelors Candidate, UC San Diego. Ex-
hibition assistant for “Go Forth and Serve”, September 21,
1992 through December 5, 1992.

Kimberly Dillon, Bachelors Candidate, University of Mis-
souri. Office of Education, assist in development of the
Hands-on History Room, June 8, 1992 through August 5,
1992.

Kris Dittman, Bachelors Degree. Division of Agriculture,
work on collections management programs, ranging from
cataloging to conservation to transferring and re-housing
various collections geared toward understanding the
management aspects of museum work, June 1, 1992
through December 24, 1992.

Ashley Dixon, Bachelors Candidate, Randolph-Macon
Woman's College. Division of Armed Forces History, lo-
cate, research, document artifacts to be used in the exhibit
“G.I. American Soldier Experience in WWII"; assist with
exhibition “American Women in War", January 27, 1992
through April 24, 1992.

Linda Dodds, Masters Candidate, Oregon State University. Re-
searching and compiling data to be used in a project
focused on the construction of metro tunnels, September
10, 1992 through December 10, 1992.

Griffin Donnell, High School Student, Duke Ellington
School of Arts. Office of Public Programs, assist visitors in

67
understanding American history through interpretation,
June 24, 1992 through August 7, 1992.

Kathryn Duffy, Bachelors Candidate, Georgetown University.
Office of Interns and Fellowships, orientation leader; coor-
dinate brown bag lunches, June 17, 1992 through August
14, 1992.

Gerald Dukatz, Bachelor’s Candidate, George Mason Univer-
sity. NMAH - Internship Office, Concentrate on perform-
ing major orientation and facilitating acceptance
procedures for interns. Organize, improve, and perform
orientation tasks to get optimum use of new intern’s time
and energy. Assist Internship Coordinator, April 13, 1992
through June 19, 1992.

Richard T. Eisenhour, Master's Candidate, George
Washington University. Processing of Edward J. Orth
World's Fair Collection, involving registration and
cataloguing procedures. Objects from the 1939-1940
World's Fair, April 28, 1992 through July 31, 1992.

Julie Eyerman, Bachelors Candidate, University of South
Carolina. Publications, May 18, 1992 through August I5, 1992.

Miriam Femerle, Bachelors Candidate, Reed College. Division
of Numismatics, collections management, June 8, 1992
through August I5, 1992.

Alan Freeman, Masters Degree. Division of Community Life,
create and assemble the intern manual for high school stu-
dents; work on the “Go Forth and Serve” exhibit; research
missing photos for the “Field to Factory” exhibit, June 1,
1992 through August 31, 1992.

Beatus Frey, Ph.D., University of Zurich. Collections manage-
ment in numismatics, September 8, 1992 through March 3,
1993.

Robert Fridovich, Bachelors Candidate, Boston University.
National Postal Museum, research and write for the Offices
of Development and Public Affairs; assist with establishing
a new Office of Public Affairs for the Nationai Postal
Museum; work in all aspects of museum promotion and
publicity, July 2, 1992 through August 26, 1992.

Jeffrey Gale, Bachelors Candidate, University of Maryland,
Baltimore County. Compiling research data, organizing
project plans, organizing archival collections, assisting in
administrative duties, September 21, 1992 through Decem-
ber 31, 1992.

Shannon Gleason, Bachelors Candidate, Stephens College. Of-
fice of Public Affairs, write press releases; work with media;
assist in planning exhibitions, researching special events,
May 26, 1992 through August 25, 1992.

Marlan Green, Bachelors Candidate, The University of the
South. Architectural History, research on Washington ar-
chitecture in the 20th century, June 15, 1992 through
August 14, 1992.

Andi Gwyn, Masters Candidate, George Washington Univer-
sity. Will work on a variety of collections management re-
lated projects including processing the Edward J. Orth
World's Fair Collection and related collections in the Com-
munity Life, September 1, 1992 through December 3, 1992.

68

Kerry Hamilton, Bachelors Degree. Museum Programs, com-
pile brochures and data entry for the American Sampler
Program, November 1, 1991 through May 31, 1992.

Lara Harris, Bachelors Candidate, Washington University.
Office of Exhibit Design, work on “Science and American
Life” exhibit with contact designer, chief of design, and
design production coordinator: perspective drawings, typo-
graphic layouts, draft scale drawings, help construct 3-D
foam model of exhibit, June 1, 1992 through August 24,
1992.

Katherine Harrison, Bachelors Degree. Archives Center, assist
in archiving of the Arab-American collection, June 8, 1992
through August 21, 1992.

Becky Hartshorn, Bachelors Degree. Division of Community
Life, Black Land Grant Colleges Show; Youth Interpretive
Services, February 27, 1992 through June 5, 1992.

Kelly Hawkins, Bachelors Degree. Division of Home and
Domestic Life, assist with all phases of collections manage-
ment for the installation of “After the Revolution”, Oc-
tober 7, 1991 through March 31, 1992.

Hillary Haynes, High School Student, Duke Ellington School
of Arts. Office of Public Programs, assist visitors in under-
standing American history through interpretation, June 24,
1992 through August 7, 1992.

Michelle Heller, Bachelors Candidate, Tufts University.
Division of Community Life, background research on ar-
tifacts and information for American festival in Japan, June
15, 1992 through August 8, 1992.

Patricia Henriques, Bachelors Candidate, Amherst College.
“Underwood & Underwood Glass Stereoscopic Collec-
tion” —tesearch and archival work video disking of the
“U & U” stereograph negatives, July 8, 1992 through
December 18, 1992.

Valeska Hilbig, Masters Candidate, New Mexico State Univer-
sity. Department of Education, research global ecological is-
sues for “Science in American Life” exhibit; assist in
incorporating the research in a video disc interactive
storyboard; research and produce copyright for film seg-
ments, as well as participate in relevant staff meetings, May
14, 1992 through July 31, 1992.

Sarah Holthaus, Bachelors Candidate, Marymount University.
Division of Community Life, pursue research for and assist
in organization of the exhibition “The American Ex-
perience” which will travel to Japan, January 22, 1992
through April 24, 1992.

Holland Hopson, Bachelors Candidate, Birmingham-
Southern College. Division of Musical History, work with
the Duke Ellington Bibliographic Database; assist with
“Duke Ellington: Beyond Category” exhibition; transcrip-
tions of oral history; assist with the Smithsonian Jazz
Masterworks Orchestra, June 1, 1992 through August 31,
1992.

Alanson Horton, Bachelors Candidate, Miami University.
Department of Public Affairs, work on the Duke Ellington
Project, June 20, 1992 through August 7, 1992.
Ann Howard, Masters Candidate, University of Maryland.
Archives Center, organize archival collections, abstract oral
histories, administrative support, reference archival sup-
port, June 8, 1992 through August 21, 1992.

Mark Hsu, Bachelors Candidate, Johns Hopkins University.
Academic Programs, work on American Quarterly as copy
editor, June 16, 1992 through August 28, 1992.

Kathleen Hughes, Bachelors Candidate, Yale University.
Division of Museum Programs, assist with programs for
“American Encounters” opening; research and develop for
1992-1993 American Sampler Series, especially “Word of
Mouth” storytelling symposium; assist with publicity for
“Music of New Mexico” recordings; assist with “Spirits of
the Present” concert for radio broadcast, June 1, 1992
through August 7, 1992.

Mary Huelsbeck, Bachelors Candidate, Carroll College.
Division of Community Life, focus on a variety of museum
practices including collections management, condition sur-
veys of present exhibitions and installation and de-installa-
tion of special exhibitions; research pertaining to sports and
musical entertainment, January 23, 1992 through May 1,
1992.

Chris Jackson, High School Student, Largo Senior High
School. Chris will learn all facets of security procedures, in-
cluding the functions of guards, aspects of personnel ad-
ministration, property accountability, record keeping, and
fire and safety inspections, May 4, 1992 through August 28,
1992.

Kylie Jackson, Bachelors Candidate, Brown University.
Division of Political History, research Black Californians;
work on the Young Interpreters Project, June 1, 1992
through August 7, 1992.

Delecia Jenkins, High School Student, Duke Ellington School
of Arts. Office of Public Programs, assist visitors in under-
standing American history through interpretation, June 24,
1992 through August 7, 1992.

Lallitha John, Bachelors Candidate, George Washington
University. Division of Community Life, assist in the re-
search and organization of the exhibition “Roots of Rock
’n’ Roll”, February 3, 1992 through April 30, 1992.

Barbara Johnson, Masters Candidate, University of Delaware.
Conservation Internship/surveys of artifacts/treatment of ar-
tifacts research project/analysis of artifacts, September 8,
1992 through September 1, 1993.

Eric Johnson, Bachelors Candidate, College of William and
Mary. Division of Community Life, work with the Young
Interpreters Program; create scripts and develop program
carts; work on researching missing photos in “Field to Fac-
tory”, June 1, 1992 through August u1, 1992.

Daniel Jones, Bachelors Degree. Division of Community Life,
assist with Young Interpreters Program, June 1, 1992
through August 31, 1992.

Michael Jones, Masters Candidate, Morehouse College. Ar-
chives Center, abstract and index the oral histories on Duke
Ellington, July 6, 1992 through August 7, 1992.

Brian Kalt, Bachelors Candidate, University of Michigan.
Division of Political History, work with objects and
graphics for the show “U.S. Presidency”; prepare a report,
June 1, 1992 through July 31, 1992.

Jessica Kaz, Masters Candidate, George Washington Univer-
sity. Division of Education, assist in development of the
handbook for the Cultural Reporter project, January 6,
1992 through April 30, 1992.

Shauna Keane, Masters Candidate, George Washington
University. Office of Education, Hands-On History Room
audience research and interpretation manual, February 6,
1992 through April 23, 1992.

Trisa Kelly, Masters Candidate, Portland State University. Pro-
gram of African American Culture, conduct research on
diasporic religious/sacred rituals, participant contacts, etc.
for the 1994 African American History Month conference
on African American Religious Traditions, June 23, 1992
through August 28, 1992.

Laura Kinsey, Bachelors Candidate, Stanford University.
Department of the History of Science and Technology,
obtain copyright permissions for graphics; assist the
collections manager; pursue research as needed, June 22,
1992 through August 17, 1992.

Valerie Keoun, Masters Candidate, George Washington
University. Office of Education, work on final phase of the
development of the Hands-on History Room, January 13,
1992 through May 8, 1992.

Paul Kramer, Masters Degree. Archives Center, serve as a re-
search assistant on the developing project “Ethnic Imagery
in the Landscape of Commercials” contacting consultants,
compiling bibliographies, and archival material, July 1,
1992 through August 30, 1992.

Joseph Kuiper, Bachelors Candidate, Hope College. Division
of Political History, documentary and photo research for
the 19th Century project, January 21, 1992 through
February 27, 1992.

Alyce Kuklinski, Bachelors Candidate, Duke University. Ar-
chives Center, rehouse and catalog approximately 300
World War I and World War II posters in the Warshaw
Collection; assist archivist with WWI and WWII posters
in the Princeton Posters Collection, June 26, 1992 through
August 7, 1992.

Krista Larsen, Bachelors Candidate, University of Colorado at
Boulder. Division of Political History, work on final
development of the exhibit “Land of Promise: America in
the 19th Century”, May 26, 1992 through August 1, 1992.

Sharon Lee, Bachelors Candidate, Montgomery College. Ad-
ministration, assist staff with confidential issues around
labor relations, filing, and answering telephones, June 29,
1992 through August 30, 1992.

Carolyn Leo, Bachelors Candidate, Santa Clara University.
Conservation and preservation of WW/I soldier packs, as
well as American military epaulets. Will also help with up-
coming American GI exhibit, September 24, 1992 through
December 22, 1992.

69
Blair Levin, Bachelors Candidate, University of Maryland. In-
ternships and Fellowships Office, organize and conduct
orientation programs for prospective and incoming interns;
compile an updated edition of the intern opportunities for
summer of 1992, January 27, 1992 through April 24, 1992.

Brenda Levy, Bachelors Degree. Internships and Fellowships
Office, arrange Brown Bag Lunches for interns and fellows;
maintain NMAH Intern Roster, December 1, 1991 through
September 4, 1992.

Christine Lewandowski, Bachelors Degree. Will assist with
preparation of the Hands-on-History room and with train-
ing docents for that room, September 14, 1992.

Sara Lewis, Bachelors Degree. Division of Costumes, develop
reference files on American Designer, Claire McCardell,
June 1, 1992 through August 7, 1992.

Huag Liang, Ph.D. Candidate, University of Connecticut.
Department of Political History, research on people in the
west in the 19th century—how the came, whether they suc-
ceeded or not,—covering five groups of people: Europeans,
Easterners, Asians, Indians, and African-Americans, July 1,
1992 through August 26, 1992.

Felicia Liss, Bachelors Candidate, Vassar College. Division of
Community Life, research for childhood exhibition on
relationship between children and corporations, June 1,
1992 through August 31, 1992.

Veronica Lopez, Bachelors Candidate, Amherst College. Ar-
chives Center, assist in preparing an exhibition of
photographs based on the Carlos de Wendler-Funaro Gypsy
research collections, June 1, 1992 through August 7, 1992.

Sean Lucas, High School Student, Duke Ellington School of
Arts. Office of Public Programs, assist visitors in under-
standing American history, June 29, 1992 through August
7, 1992.

Teresa MacDonald, Bachelors Candidate, Franklin and Mar-
shall College. Division of Military History, cataloging two
collections of Women’s Military Clothing and assist in re-
housing project for epaulets, June 10, 1992 through July 31,
1992.

Michelle Madden, Bachelors Degree. Duke Ellington School
Project - helping to research and prepare publications for
the museum studies program at the Ellington School in

Georgetown, September 9, 1992 through December 18, 1992.

Masayuki Maeda, Museum Professional, Okinawa Prefectural
Museum. Internship an NMAH to gain comprehensive un-
derstanding of the major functional areas of a US museum.
Will work with staff in each area, September 21, 1992
through March 12, 1993.

Elenorah Maney, Bachelors Candidate, Portland State Univer-
sity. Program in African American Cultures, 1993 Duke El-
lington Youth project and the teacher training workshop
involved; pre-production activities for a November pro-
gram on American Classical Music, June 29, 1992 through
September 15, 1992.

Judith Marvin, Masters Degree. Division of Community Life,
survey the Smithsonian's Collection for ivory holdings and

7O

produce a brochure for the Elephant Ivory Exhibit to be open
in August of 1992, May 28, 1992 through August 30, 1992.

Jeannine Maschak, Bachelors Candidate, University of Pit-
tsburgh. Department of History of Science and Technology,
work on the “Science in American Life” exhibit, June 1,
1992 through August 2, 1992.

Matthew McArthur, Bachelors Candidate, Portland State
University. Reading, analyzing and summarizing the
material contained in a collection of scholarly articles relat-
ing to the Afro-American Communities Project and adding
that information to the data base. Reading, Analyzing and
summarizing the material contained in a microfilm collec-
tion of the Black Abolitionist Papers and adding that infor-
mation to a computerized database, April 7, 1992 through
June 10, 1992.

Josh McClung, High School Student. Will assist in the or-
dinance section of armed forces history in reorganization
the collections in preparing for a complete inventory of ob-
jects, September 28, 1992 through May 31, 1993.

Debra McCullough, Bachelors Degree. Department of Cos-
tumes, assist in reindexing library database, researching tee
shirt data; design informative questionnaire on the image
and identity project, July 6, 1992 through September 4,
1992.

Angela McEliece, Bachelors Candidate, University of Califor-
nia-Santa Barbara. Department of Numismatics, collection
management and organization of the collection, June 25,
1992 through August 5, 1992.

Joseph McGeshick, Masters Degree. American Indian Awards
Program, ethno history—Sokaogon Chippewa History—te-
search the years 1850-1860 when the tribe became landless
until 1934, treaty negotiations, etc, May 26, 1992 through
July 31, 1992.

Kelley McNiff, Bachelors Degree. Division of Biological
Sciences, research and administrative assistant for the
Science in American Life project: focusing on the section
entitled “Science in Public Eye”, January 22, 1992 through
May 29, 1992.

Darcy Meeks, Bachelors Candidate, Hartwick College.
Division of Transportation, assist with the collections
management and research of the rail trade literature collec-
tion and the Delaware & Hudson Railroad Engineering
drawings; help with general curatorial operations, January
23, 1992 through April 24, 1992.

Julia Merritt, Bachelors Candidate. A merican Quarterly, copy
editing with the goal of providing writing and editing ex-
perience through work on a scholarly journal, June 15, 1992
through August I5, 1992.

Andrew Meserole, Bachelors Degree. Division of Community
Life, documentary research and oral history pertaining to
Black Land Grand Colleges; assist with the youth inter-
preter program for “Field to Factory”, February 18, 1992
through June 19, 1992.

Amy Meyer, Bachelors Candidate, University of Maryland.
Division of Design, assist the exhibit designer in all aspects
of the upcoming exhibit of the Vietnam Veterans
Memorial; create scale drawings of all the objects in the
exhibit, June 29, 1992 through July 28, 1992.

J. Brendan Meyer, Bachelors Candidate, University of Notre
Dame. Architectural, research the modern architecture of
Washington, DC for a book, May 20, 1992 through July 31,
1992.

Miles Miller, Bachelors Candidate, Yakima Valley Com-
munity College. Office of the Registrar, work with
curatorial, collections management, and administrative
staff in collections record systems, object handling and
processing, loans, and special projects, accountability, and
off site storage, June 22, 1992 through August 14, 1992.

Don Milner, Bachelors Candidate, Columbia Union College.
African-American Index Project, research artifacts of the
Afro-American culture and create an exhibit for the
museum, January 13, 1992 through May 31, 1992.

Karen Miyoshi, Bachelors Candidate. Division of Engineering
and Industry, research on environmental equity and women
and minorities in engineering, June 10, 1992 through
August 14, 1992.

Tchad Moore, Bachelors Candidate, Howard University. As-
sisting and researching Jazz Oral History Project, Septem-
ber 2, 1992 through December 31, 1992.

James Morrill, Bachelors Degree. Will gain overview of per-
sonnel administration at NMAH and develop a current
organizational chart of the NMAH and the history of posi-
tion evolution, September 9, 1992 through December 31,
1992.

Lisa Morris, Bachelors Candidate, Wells College. Division of
Community Life, research focusing on the political origin
of the American holiday Thanksgiving, and the debate over
who was first, January 3, 1992 through January 30, 1992.

Cara Mullio, Bachelors Candidate, California Polytechnical
Institute. Department of the History of Science and Tech-
nology, research on the history of architecture in
Washington, DC with particular emphasis on the major
buildings that have been proposed but rejected because
their designs were considered inappropriate, June 15, 1992
through August 29, 1992.

Kareem Murphy, Bachelors Candidate, Howard University.
Research for the Duke Ellington Jazz Archives, will assist
the curator of the Duke Ellington Jazz Archives and his
staff or research related to the field, September 30 1992
through December 31, 1992.

Dawn Nave, Bachelors Candidate, Florida A&M University.
Department of Social and Cultural History, microfilm
records tracing activities of African-Americans in Camden,
New Jersey in the late 19th and 20th centuries; assist on
the “Go Forth and Serve” exhibition, June 15, 1992 through
August 21, 1992.

Carrie Nee, Bachelors Candidate, Loyola College. Department
of the History of Science and Technology, guided research
on history of modern architecture in DC including archival
documentation, surveys and building records, computer

data entry of primary sources and findings and organization
of information, May 11, 1992 through August 14, 1992.

Tonya Neff, Bachelors Candidate, Messiah College. Office of
Public Affairs, work on the American Encounter Project,
involved in research, drafting captions, doing photo re-
search, and responding to routine PR inquiries and any
other logistics needed, January 23, 1992 through May 6,
1992.

Adam Nelson, Bachelors Candidate, St. Olaf College.
Academic Affairs, editorial assistant, American Quarterly,
doing editorial work and coordinating short-term research
projects in American History, June 10, 1992 through
August 28, 1992.

Josephine Nieuwenhuis, Bachelors Candidate, Reinwardt
Academy. Office of the Registrar, collection management,
December 30, 1991 through June 26, 1992.

Sarah Noble, Bachelors Candidate, Clark University. Depart-
ment of Armed Forces History, assist project manager in
daily operations of the department, June 29, 1992 through
August 30, 1992.

Luis Obregon, Visiting Professional. Office of Exhibit Design,
graphic design on exhibits, production of scale models, and
conceptual drawings, June 26, 1992 through September 23,
1992.

Nora S. Oney, Bachelors Degree, Sweet Briar College. To gain
a cultural understanding of the overall function & opera-
tion of the NMAH. TO develop an understanding of collec-
tions management. TO heighten research skills and
develop knowledge of the material culture of American
home life, September 8, 1992 through December 31, 1992.

Kirstin O'Reilly, Bachelors Candidate, Skidmore College.
Research and assistance with staff on Duke Ellington cur-
riculum and “Pousse Cafe” reproduction, September 17,
1992 through December 9, 1992.

Matthias Otto, Ph.D. Candidate, Technical University of Ber-
lin. Graphics Art, research on the history of typesetting sys-
tems and history of the labor movement in the U.S.
printing industry, July 13, 1992 through October 15, 1992.

Hwakyung Park, Bachelors Degree. Division of Musical His-
tory, collections management duties including rehousing
musical instruments, learning about materials, and conser-
vation techniques in doing so, January 15, 1992 through
August 31, 1992.

Susan Parsons, Bachelors Candidate, University of Tennessee.
Division of Numismatics, work on conservation and assist
in rehousing, May 18, 1992 through August 9, 1992.

Philip Partington, Bachelors Degree. Division of Architec-
tural History, assist in the research and graphic documenta-
tion of Power, Politics, and Architecture: Washington:
1900-1990, February 3, 1992 through June 30, 1992.

Donald Perna, Jr., Bachelors Degree. Office of the Registrar,
registorial assistant for the Edward J. Orth World's Fair
Collection; work in collections management, museum
registration, and cataloging activities for the collection,
January 6, 1992 through June 30, 1992.

71
Jennifer Perry, Bachelors Candidate, Smith College. The in-
tern will be assisting the curator in conjunction with the ex-
hibition “Duke Ellington: Beyond Category,” September 8,
1992 through December 18, 1992.

Stephen Petrina, Doctoral Candidate, University of Maryland.
Public Programs, background research for various sections
in the “Science in American Life” project; assist in exhibit
design, November 18, 1991 through January 31, 1992.

Ellen Pollack, Masters Candidate, George Washington Univer-
sity. Will be doing research on “Oklahoma” exhibit, as well
as, “Red, Hot, and Blue” exhibit, September 21, 1992
through December 18, 1992.

Cristina Posa, High School Graduate. Department of Political
History, OESE Intern '92: work with collections document-
ing political institutions; basic research, gathering photos,
and assembling objects to be photographed, July 13, 1992
through August 14, 1992.

Alison Prentice, Bachelors Candidate, Denison University.
Intern and Fellowship Office, orientation leader and help
with brown bag lunch, June 4, 1992 through August 5,
1992.

Lynn Rainville, Bachelors Candidate, Dartmouth College.
Department of Political History, as assistant to the curator,
Lynn will locate artifacts and graphics for “Land of
Promise” and will pursue research for labels concerning
women in the west. She will also assist in collections
management, March 30, 1992 through June 19, 1992.

Jamie Ravenscraft, High School Graduate. Archives Center,
OESE Intern ‘92, work with primary source materials;
arrange contents and describe the contents of a collection,
June 8, 1992 through July 10, 1992.

Todd Recht, Bachelors Degree. Publications, design and
produce camera-ready publications using desktop equip-
ment; become familiar with museum operations and other
design software, January 6, 1992 through June 30, 1992.

Jennifer Reihm, Bachelors Candidate, University of Califor-
nia—San Diego. Department of Social and Cultural His-
tory, History of Rock and Roll research at Library of
Congress, June 22, 1992 through August 21, 1992.

William Reilly, Bachelors Degree. Department of Public
Programs, research for the Duke Ellington educational
programs, June 22, 1992 through July 1, 1992.

Holliday Ridge, Bachelors Degree. Office of Education, assist
in conducting audience surveys to evaluate hands-on ac-
tivities and find a suitable exhibit title, January 23, 1992
through June 26, 1992.

Kent Romoka, Bachelors Candidate, Mary Washington Col-
lege. Internship Office, observe, improve, organize, and per-
form the orientation tasks for incoming interns and fellows;
also gather information, organize, edit, and produce an up-
dated edition of Intern Opportunities, January 21, 1992
through May 1, 1992.

Aaron Rulnick, Bachelors Candidate, University of Maryland.
Office of Exhibition Design, assist in developing and draft-
ing alternative designs for the Museum's entrances, designs

72

that produce the most efficient use of available space and
light and improve the visual and spatial information
provided in these important transitional spaces, February
10, 1992 through May 8, 1992.

Susan Russick, Bachelors Degree. Division of Paper Conserva-
tion, assist in preparation of materials for “ American En-
counters”, March 2, 1992 through March 31, 1992.

Matthew Sakakenny, Bachelors Candidate, Peabody Conser-
vatory of Johns Hopkins University. Office of Telecom-
munication, recording and miscellaneous audio projects
including Jazz Masterworks Orchestra, editing of Wolf
Trap, June 1, 1992 through August 31, 1992.

Denise Sala, Bachelors Candidate, University of Delaware. Ar-
chives Center, June 24, 1992 through August 8, 1992.

Andrea Scibelli, Bachelors Candidate, American University.
Internship and Fellowship Office, coordinate administra-
tive processes for the summer 1992 internship applications,
including build and maintain a database for tracking ap-
plications, receive and log their responses, and communi-
cate with applicants and prospective supervisors, February
18, 1992 through April 24, 1992.

Aphaphanh Sengsy, Bachelors Degree. Division of Education,
cultural reporter, hands on history, American Encounters,
May 19, 1992 through October 9, 1992.

Kelli Shafer, Bachelors Candidate, University of North Carolina.
Division of Numismatics, organize the fiscal documents in the
department, May 18, 1992 through August 9, 1992.

Katherine Shaughnessy, Bachelors Degree. Office of Exhibits
and Design, organize the reference library and learn the
management system for coordinating the work of the
museum exhibition designers, May 20, 1992 through
August 14, 1992.

Jennifer Shearin, Bachelors Candidate, Kenyon College.
African American Index Project, edit and input data; com-
pile new data, June 18, 1992 through August 14, 1992.

Sarah Shen, Bachelors Candidate, University of California—
Berkeley. Office of Public Programs, biographical research
for exhibition on American Musicals and Performance
Materials for the “American Song” concert series, June 29,
1992 through August 21, 1992.

Tracey Sheilds, Masters Candidate, Buffalo State College/Art
Conservation. Conservation internship - surveys and treat-
ment of artifacts/analysis of artifacts/research project, Sep-
tember 2, 1992 through September 1, 1993.

Beth Shutika, Bachelors Candidate, North Carolina State. Of-
fice of the Registrar, review accession and nonaccession files
submitted to the office form the 21 collecting units of the
museum; train in everyday workings of the office including
assigning accession numbers to new collections, May 26,
1992 through August 2, 1992.

Lyle Slovick, Masters Candidate, George Washington Univer-
sity. African American Culture, assist in research for ongo-
ing projects; assist in handling the press releases and public
service announcements; other logistical support, June 15,
1992 through August 28, 1992.
Hilary Smith, Bachelors Degree. Helping photographer in
daily shooting duties, filing, & cataloguing of negatives
and slides. Includes working with designers, exhibits, staf-
fers and subject specialists. Will document historic events
to preserve our nations heritage. September 8, 1992 through
September 1, 1993.

Martha Smith, Bachelors Candidate, Presbyterian College.
Division of Armed Forces History, collections management
and research for the “World War II Daily Life” exhibit and
“Nurses Throughout the Wars” exhibit, January 21, 1992
through April 24, 1992.

Rennee Snipe, Bachelors Candidate, Howard University.
Division of Musical History, assist the production manager
in producing Jazz Band/Orchestra; assist in house manage-
ment the day of performance; collate mailing list for
brochures, coordinate the contents for the concert
programs, February 19, 1992 through April 10, 1992.

John Spaight, Bachelors Candidate, Santa Clara University.
Division of Physical Sciences, research the history of
astronomical apparatus in the collections; help revise the
text of Alvan Clark and Sons, June 22, 1992 through
August 22, 1992.

Nicola Spiss, Masters Candidate, George Washington Univer-
sity. As assistant to the archivist, Nicola will participate in
the planning of the Underwood & Underwood Glass
Stereograph Collection which is being filmed for videodisc,
May 4, 1992 through July 31, 1992.

Jodie Steiner, Bachelors Degree. Department of Public
Programs, assist in background research for curriculum
units being developed; assist with teacher workshop for par-
ticipating in Science and American Life Project resource
teams, June 22, 1992 through August 31, 1992.

Jean Tanaka, Bachelors Candidate, University of Hawaii.
Department of Education, assist with the design, produc-
tion, and dissemination of the Southwest children’s critical-
ly annotated bibliography; assist as needed with “American
Encounters” exhibit; cultural reporter for educational out-
reach project, May 26, 1992 through July 24, 1992.

Durahn Taylor, Bachelors Degree. Division of Political His-
tory, study the shift of political loyalties among African
Americans from the Republican to the Democratic Party
during the 1930's and 1940's, May 18, 1992 through August
7» 1992.

Lacy Taylor, High School Graduate. Office of Public
Programs, assist in a basic research project connected with
the development of an annual concert series of classic
popular and theatre music; locate photographs and sound
recordings, June 8, 1992 through July 10, 1992.

Howard Teasley, Bachelors Candidate, Howard University.
Division of Musical History, assist in the production of the
Smithsonian National Jazz Masterworks Orchestra for the
season of the Jazz Masterworks Series, January 21, 1992
through August 31, 1992.

Amelia Thomas, Bachelors Degree. Assists “Land of Promise”
team with object and graphics collection management and

will assist ceramics and glass curators with research and
management of collections related to the aesthetic and Arts
& Craft movement, September 14, 1992 through May 31,
1993.

Laura Thomson, Bachelors Candidate, Mary Washington Col-
lege. As assistant to the curator, Laura will be responsible
for the cataloguing, accession and inscribing of the
Guernsey Collection of recordings and create a scope and
content note. She will also do preliminary organizing of the
Nick Pearls recordings. May 4, 1992 through August 31,
1992.

Mary Van Meter, Bachelors Degree. Office of Public Programs,
assist in conducting background research on social science
aspects of polymers, Manhattan project, public health; par-
ticipate in group meetings to discuss unit development, June
22, 1992 through August I5, 1992.

Jane Walker, Bachelors Candidate, College of Notre Dame of
Maryland. Department of Exhibit Design, “American En-
counters”—coordinate design and production for the exhibi-
tion and serve as liaison for all units of the exhibition team.

Deborah Waller, Bachelors Degree. American Quarterly, re-
search and copy editing, November 7, 1991 through
January 31, 1992.

Tzu-Fen Wang, Masters Candidate, George Mason University.
Intern and Fellowship Office, initial design specifications
for the Museum's Collections Information System, June 15,
1992 through August 18, 1992.

Brad Weaver, Bachelors Candidate, Purdue University. Office
of the Director, perform budget, accounting, and personnel
analysis to support the work of the central administrative
office, June 2, 1992 through July 31, 1992.

Laura Wegman, Bachelors Candidate, Macalester College. Of-
fice of Education, design and fabricate displays for Hands-
on Science Preview Area to test “Science in American Life”
exhibit components with visitors; maintain Preview Area
when open to the public; learn about development process
for hands-on activities; assist with audience research and
other office projects as needed, June 1, 1992 through July
24, 1992.

Kevin Westrich, Bachelors Candidate, American University.
To conduct research and documentation under the super-
vision of Mina Marafat on the architectural history of
Washington, DC in the 20th Century, September 2, 1992
through December u, 1992.

Jennifer Williams, Bachelors Candidate, American University.
Assisting with the management of the Political Process Col-
lection, September 24, 1992 through December 11, 1992.

Leah Williamson, Bachelors Candidate, University of
Maryland. Division of Social and Cultural History, follow-
up and location of oral history project interviews for the
preparation of manuscript on the African-American
migration.

Shalott Wilson, Bachelors Candidate, Howard University.
Department of Musical history, to assist producer with
detailed planning duties involving the organization and set-

73
up of upcoming programs and performances. April 20, 1992
through May 23, 1992.

Cynthia Wood, High School Student, Salem Academy.
Division of Medical Sciences, participate in collection
management procedures for medicines and spectacles,
January 6, 1992 through January 23, 1992.

National Portrait Gallery

Cecilia Alfonso, Masters Degree. Assist the Production
Manager & Asst. Chief, Design, & Production with the
graphic and administrative work required for the design &
production of exhibits. Specific duties may include draft-
ing, blueprinting, copying, reviewing specifications, etc.,
September 15, 1992 through March 15, 1992.

Nicole Ardoin, Bachelors Candidate, James Madison Univer-
sity. Catalog of American Portraits, conduct biographical
research on subjects and artists and verify and update
catalog information for portraits in major public and
private collections across the country; correspond with
owners, obtain photos, and incorporate material into the
CAP portrait archives and computer database, June 1, 1992
through July 24, 1992.

Amy Baynard, Bachelors Candidate, Mary Washington Col-
lege. Library, assist in research and shelving of the books in
the Library, June 1, 1992 through August 7, 1992.

Suzanne Bechamps, Bachelors Degree. Office of Publications,
primarily assisted in the proofing and the production of the
Rembrandt Peale catalogue, labels, and brochure, August
11, 1992 through September 3, 1992.

Andrea Begel, Bachelors Candidate, Davidson College.
Catalog of American Portraits, conduct biographical re-
search on subjects and artists and verify and update catalog
information for portraits in major public and private collec-
tions across the country; correspond with owners, obtain
photos, and incorporate material into the CAP portrait ar-
chives and computer database, June 1, 1992 through July 31,
1992.

Susann Borgeest, Bachelors Candidate, George Washington
University. Design of a self-guide for high school students
of American Indians in the National Portrait Gallery's per-
manent collection. Also designed a self-guide for families,
assisted the Public Program Manag; with designing
public announcement and programs notes, September 1,
1992 through May 5, 1993.

Jennifer Cathey, Bachelors Candidate. Library, assist with
inter-library loans; variety of library duties including verti-
cal file maintenance and cataloguing, circulation actives,
preservation of serials, June 8, 1992 through August 3, 1992.

Carleton Cole, Bachelors Candidate, Principia College. Office
of Design and Production, preparation of graphics for two
special exhibitions: “Hosokawa” and “The Spirit of Party”;

74

produce film and paper positive for stencil preparation, and
stencils for screening graphics on walls and panels, June 22,
1992 through September 4, 1992.

Anne Eigeman, Masters Candidate, George Washington
University. Office of Education, develop school programs
featuring the African-Americans within the gallery's collec-
tion, January 7, 1992 through April 23, 1992.

Suzanne Carole Farmer, Bachelors Degree. Assist with
current & future exhibitions, especially with the Exhibi-
tions History project, September 15, 1992 through
December 18, 1992.

Andrea Ferretti, Bachelors Candidate, Smith College.
Biographical research for exhibition on musicals, Septem-
ber 8, 1992 through December 18, 1992.

Christina Garamone, Bachelors Candidate, American Univer-
sity. Researching and verifying catalog data on portraits for
the Catalog of American Portrait’s national portrait
database, including subject and artist biographical informa-
tion, object descriptions, object descriptions, provenance,
etc., September 17, 1992 through December 4, 1992.

Sarah Goldfrank, Bachelors Candidate, Smith College.
Primary research in “New York World,” looking for carica-
ture in the teens, September 8, 1992 through December 18,
1992.

Molly Gritter, Bachelors Degree. Catalog of American
Portraits, conduct biographical research on subjects and ar-
tists and verify and update catalog information for portraits
in major public and private collections across the country;
correspond with owners, obtain photos, and incorporate
material into the CAP portrait archives and computer
database, June 1, 1992 through July 31, 1992.

Mary Ann Hardy, Bachelors Candidate, Smith College. His-
torical research and editing for volume 4 of the Peale Fami-
ly papers, September 8, 1992 through December 18, 1992.

Adrienne Haythe, Bachelors Candidate, Vassar College.
Library, assist the librarians in classification, research, and
general library activities, June 1, 1992 through August 5,
1992.

Rebecca Hejduk, Bachelors Candidate, State University of
New York at Purchase. Library, research and cataloging,
June 1, 1992 through August I, 1992.

Ivan Kerbel, Bachelors Candidate, Yale University. History,
OESE Intern '92: assist historian with ongoing research
projects, using Gallery and DC Public Library and Library
of Congress, July 13, 1992 through August 14, 1992.

Aimee Marcereau, Bachelors Degree. Department of Educa-
tion, development of an educational kit for students; re-
search and update information on the permanent collection,

June 22, 1992 through August 25, 1992.

Marybeth McHugh, Bachelors Degree, Wellesley College.
Adapt the National Portrait Gallery's education program
for seventh through ninth grade so that they can be used in
an innovative way with culturally disadvantaged students
in the Washington metropolitan area, September 23, 1992
through December 11, 1992.
Claire Morris, Bachelors Candidate, Southern Methodist
University. Catalog of American Portraits, catalogue, up-
date information concerning American portraits; basic
typing, basic computer data input, June 11, 1992 through
August 8, 1992.

Bobette Nixon, Bachelors Candidate, Brigham Young Univer-
sity. Project includes organizing, researching and editing
information concerning portraits in various collections
across the country, and incorporating data into a national
automated database and portrait archives, May 4, 1992
through August 8, 1992.

Elizabeth Norman, High School Graduate. Library, OESE In-
tern ‘92: assist the professional staff in standard library
duties, sort materials selected for vertical files and
eliminate backlog of materials already selected, July 13,
1992 through August 14, 1992.

Sabrina Pagini, Bachelors Candidate, Dartmouth College.
Curatorial Department, research American watercolor
portraits for possible exhibition, June 15, 1992 through
August 31, 1992.

Anna Rhodes, Masters Candidate, University of Delaware. Of-
fice of Education, develop and implement a plan to increase
adult group attendance at the museum, June 1, 1992
through August 28, 1992.

Tanya Saine, Bachelors Candidate, University of Puget Sound.
Office of Public Affairs, assist the public affairs office with
press, special events, and publicizing public programs,

June 8, 1992 through July 17, 1992.

Dawn Schmitt, Bachelors Candidate, Pepperdine University.
Office of Exhibits, perform research for upcoming exhibi-
tion “1846-Anniversary of the Smithsonian Institution,
June 1, 1992 through July 20, 1992.

Emily Shapiro, Bachelors Candidate, Kenyon College. Educa-
tion Department, Library, research, shelve books, arrange
and catalog, June 1, 1992 through August 21, 1992.

Dominique Smith, High School Student, West Springfield High
School. Office of Education, clerical work: major filing, xerox-
ing, answering telephone inquiries, generate letters, and
design office logs, July 6, 1992 through September 7, 1992.

Jennifer Snow, Bachelors Degree. Catalog of American
Portraits, organize, research, and edit information concern-
ing portraits in various collections across the country, and
incorporate data into a national automated database and
portrait archives, June 8, 1992 through August 30, 1992.

Allison Sobke, Bachelors Candidate, Vassar College. Research
and compile films geared to the multi-cultural experience that
can be utilized by the National Portrait Gallery film series,
and assist in the production and scheduling of Culture in Mo-
tion program, May 29, 1992 through August 21, 1992.

Rebecca Tomasini, Bachelors Candidate, Elms College. Office
of Education, develop a model tour to use with high school
students studying American Literature; choose appropriate
portraits in the permanent collection and do necessary re-
search; devise a system for audience development for this
new program, June 15, 1992 through August 7, 1992.

Gail Tauber, Masters Candidate, City College of New York.
Office of Education, research, write, and design a hand-out
on the Native American portraits in the National Portrait
Gallery's collection, July 13, 1992 through August 26, 1992.

Martha Willoughby, Bachelors Degree. Department of His-
tory, research on American Paintings, December 2, 1991
through February 28, 1992.

Office of Exhibits Central

Eric Mialhe, Doctorate. Model Shop, techniques of museum
exhibition for subsequent applications in the French In-
stitute of Research for Exploitation of the Sea, January 21,
1992 through October 30, 1992.

Niloufer Moochhala, Bachelors Candidate, Mt. Holyoke College.
Graphics, drafting of exhibitions, layouts, photography,
graphic production, June 8, 1992 through August 8, 1992.

Alan Vance, Bachelors Degree. Department of Exhibits, learn-
ing graphic production techniques as well as model
making, March 2, 1992 through May 3, 1992.

Geffrey Vitale, High School Graduate. Fabrication, OESE In-
tern '92: assist in tasks required for preparing exhibits and
for transporting them; extensive exposure to central ex-
hibits productions shop, June 8, 1992 through July 10, 1992.

Office of Institutional Studies

Dagny Glover, Masters Degree. Institutional Studies, will
work with the staff on a range of studies especially those in-
volving audience studies in the planning and interpretive
strategies developed for exhibitions, August 24, 1992
through June 30, 1993.

Chad Groom, Bachelors Degree. Office of Institutional
Studies, interpret results of Comparative Zoo Studies, June
1, 1992 through August 7, 1992.

Office of Museum Programs

Tom Colligan, Bachelors Candidate, George Mason Univer-
sity. Internship Programs, coordinate and implement the
annual Museum Careers Program, May 26, 1992 through
July 14, 1992.

Maria Mieri, Masters Candidate. Identify and make available
academic theses in English, both masters and PhD levels,
investigate museological issues, June 16, 1992 through
August 31, 1992.

75
Smithsonian Institution Traveling
Exhibition Service

Ann Caspari, Masters Candidate, George Washington University.
Develop educational materials for a workshop accompanying
the exhibit “Strength and Diversity: Japanese American
Women”, January 13, 1992 through April 23, 1992.

Carla Padro, Masters Candidate, George Washington Univer-
sity. Research low tech interactive hands-on material to be
applied to the exhibit “Try This On”, January 14, 1992
through May 8, 1992.

Melissa Stegman, Bachelors Degree. Research and office assis-
tance, December 1, 1991 through June 1, 1992.

Education and Public Services

Center for Folklife Programs and
Cultural Studies

Tanja Bos, Bachelors Candidate, Corcoran School of Art.
Design, assist the designer, May 25, 1992 through June 10,
1992.

Joseph Covell, Bachelors Candidate, Gallaudet University. Ar-
chives, assist in photographing the Festival of American
Folklife and archiving the photographs, June 8, 1992
through August 7, 1992.

Lies] Dees, Masters Candidate, George Washington Univer-
sity. Assist on “Workers at the White House” section for
the 1992 Festival of American Folklife, through research
and exhibit preparation, January 21, 1992 through May 8,
1992.

Deena Gift, Bachelors Degree. Assist in coordinating the
Maroon Program for the annual Festival of American
Folklife, May 19, 1992 through August 31, 1992.

Heidi Gjerset, Masters Candidate, George Washington
University. Maroon Program, assist in preparation for
fieldwork review and other projects related to the produc-
tion of the Maroon Program as part of the 1992 Festival of
American Folklife, January 28, 1992 through May 8, 1992.

Lisa Glass, Bachelors Candidate, Washington University. Ac-
cessibility and Maroom Program for the Festival of
American Folklife, May 26, 1992 through July 31, 1992.

Amy Hansen, Bachelors Degree. Apprentice to the graphic
artist of the Center for International Study and Folklife
Programs, October 11, 1991 through March 30, 1992.

Sherri Hinson, Bachelors Candidate, Longwood College.
Design, prepare work for the 1992 Festival of American
Folklife and research a topic for an Art History Lecture at
Longwood College in the spring of 1992, December 16, 1991
through January 10, 1992.

76

Gretchen Hunter, Bachelors Candidate, William Smith Col-
lege. Assist in preparation for the Festival of American
Folklife, June 10, 1992 through August 25, 1992.

Russell Jones, Bachelors Candidate, Oberlin College. Assist
with the children activities center for the Festival of
American Folklife, May 27, 1992 through August 31, 1992.

Gina L’ Acqua, Masters Candidate, New Mexico State University.
supply coordinator and music stage coordinator for the Fes-
tival of American Folklife, June 1, 1992 through July 6, 1992.

Sarah Marx, Bachelors Degree. Working on educational kit for
the festival of American Folklife; Native American Education-
al Kit, September 2, 1992 through November 15, 1992.

Jennifer Page, Bachelors Candidate, College of William and
Mary. Native American educational materials and work on
cross cultural programs during the Festival of American
Folklife, May 20, 1992 through August 14, 1992.

Susan Paradise, Bachelors Candidate, Skidmore College.
Project assistant for the New Mexico Program of the Fes-
tival of American Folklife, May 19, 1992 through August
28, 1992.

Mahnaz Pater-Roy, High School Graduate. Accessibility, help
prepare and monitor services that will make the Festival of
American Folklife more accessible to people with dis-
abilities, June 8, 1992 through July 10, 1992.

Jane Umlauf, Bachelors Degree. Design, help design signs
and mount photos, any other task to develop paste-ups for
the Festival of American Folklife, June 2, 1992 through
July 9, 1992.

Rachel Watkins, Bachelors Candidate, Howard University.
Work and research for the Festival of American Folklife on
the Maroon culture in the Americas, June 10, 1992 through
August 14, 1992.

Office of Elementary and
Secondary Education

Irvin Jefferson, Visiting Professional. Review summer seminar
programs for teachers and suggest ways the DC Public
Schools can be more incorporated into the program; locate
K-12 curriculum from the school district to be stored in
OESE as a reference source for SI instructors, July 6, 1992
through August 14, 1992.

Wider Audience Development Program

Brian Armstrong, Bachelors Degree. Assist with coordination
of Heritage Month's activities and work on advocacy issues,
June 23, 1992 through August 20, 1992.
External Affairs

Office of the Assistant Secretary for
External Affairs

Bronson Griscom, Bachelors Degree, Brown University. Assis-
tant to Ryan Dwight under Dr. Thomas Lovejoy; will be
maintaining Dr. Lovejoy’s research files and library, will
organize information packets for distribution to various
inquiries and draft letters of reply to inquiries, September
30, 1992 through December u, 1992.

Melody Kao, Bachelors Candidate, Wellesley College. Review
and update the subject file of Assistant Secretary Lovejoy's
environmental files, categorize his research library and
enter into a computer, photocopy and file articles, draft
responses to letters of inquiry and assemble appropriate
enclosures, June 10, 1992 through August 18, 1992.

Office of Conference Services

Amy Lynn Straley, Bachelors Degree, Trinity College. Will be
exposed to various aspects of international and national
conference planning and administration, including actual
meeting planning, site set-ups, registration and account-
ing, as well as, to federal and Smithsonian procedures re-
lated to the above.

Office of International Relations

Ari Barkan. Organization and maintenance of computer net-
work, June 15, 1992 through September 24, 1992.

Lucille Chaveas, Masters Candidate, George Washington
University. Study project, background paper on Museums
in Africa, with potential colloquium topics on current is-
sues confronting museums in Africa, May 4, 1992 through
June 19, 1992.

James Comiskey, Bachelors Candidate. Bio Diversity, work on
data analysis of information gathered form SI/MAB re-
search plot in the Manu Biosphere Reserve of Peru; help
put together two user's and four field guides to the
biodiversity permanent plots in Manu, Peru, January 16,
1992 through April 17, 1992.

Felicity Devlin, Bachelors Degree. Man and the Biosphere
Project, help conduct research on status of biodiversity in
Latin American forests for presentation at conference in Ber-
lin, September, 1992, June 1, 1992 through August 31, 1992.

Amy Graves, Bachelors Candidate, Georgetown University.
Provide program assistance for the Bosque Tropicales Ex-
hibition and research assistance on the Museum Services
Project, January 4, 1992 through May 10, 1992.

Carol Gordenstein, Masters Candidate, George Washington
University. Program development and evaluation; provide
logistics and program development support for Nuestros
Bosques Nuestra Herencia tropical rainforest exhibit, May
ul, 1992 through July 10, 1992.

Meighan Henderson, Bachelors Candidate, DePauw Univer-
sity. Man and the Biosphere, work on entering data from
SI/MAB biodiversity plots into a database system; compile
spreadsheets and information for SI/MAB User's and Field
Guides; other duties as needed, June 1, 1992 through
August I5, 1992.

Lisa Horth, Masters Candidate, University of Maryland. Man
and the Biosphere, work on data analysis of information
gathered from the SI/MAB research plot in the Manu Bio-
sphere Reserve of Peru and to help put together Users and
Field Guides to the permanent biodiversity plots in Manu,
Peru, June 1, 1992 through June 30, 1992.

Kathleen Sams, Bachelors Candidate, Emory University. Man
and the Biosphere, work on data analysis of information
gathered from the SI/MAB research plot in the Manu Bio-
sphere Reserve of Peru and to help put together Users and
Field Guides to the permanent biodiversity plots in Manu,
Peru, June 1, 1992 through June 28, 1992.

Preston Tulay, Bachelors Candidate, Howard University.
Develop documentation for the computer systems, Decem-
ber 9, 1991 through February 1, 1992.

Smithsonian Institution Press

Rachel Badger, Bachelors Candidate. University Press/Market-
ing, issue press releases, compile review lists for recent
book projects and trade publications; assist in marketing
with publicity, advertising, seasonal catalogs, sales, and
other promotions, June 15, 1992 through July 31, 1992.

Molly Hiro, Bachelors Candidate, Georgetown University.
Marketing/University Press Division, assisted with all
phases of publicity for scholarly books, June 1, 1992
through July 24, 1992

Amanda Lowthian, Bachelors Degree, Wesleyan University.
University Press/Marketing, issue press releases, compile
review lists for recent book projects and trade publications;
assist in marketing with publicity, advertising, season
catalogs, sales, and other promotions, September 14, 1992
through December 4, 1992.

Kate Maloney, Bachelors Candidate, Harvard University.
Smithsonian Books Division, assist with research for Smith-
sonian Books including layout, promotion, and marketing,
June 15, 1992 through August 14, 1992.

77
Anna Vadskjaer, Masters Candidate, University of Aarhus.
Smithsonian Books, research and experience in text selec-
tion, lay-out, promotion, and marketing; use her Scan-
dinavian and French language skills to research objects
from foreign museums for the book project Ancient Worlds,
January 14, 1992 through February 29, 1992.

Smithsonian Resident Associates Program

Christopher Bennett, Bachelors Candidate, Randolph-Macon
College. Discovery Theatre, production assistant, January
6, 1992 through January 31, 1992.

Gina Canzona, Bachelors Candidate, University of Illinois.
Public Affairs, help facilitate promotion of RAP events and
keep track of Smithsonian press through archiving; help of-
fice in any way necessary, January 27, 1992 through May 8,
1992.

Alexandra Casserley, High School Student, Foxcroft School.
Resident Associate Program, liaison for Smithsonian Kite
Festival, research information for Summer Camp, liaison
for science with a scientist, research potential films and
tours, index associate for instructors according to specific
disciplines, March 9, 1992 through March 27, 1992.

Dupre Cecile, Bachelors Candidate, Kalamazoo College.
Public Affairs, participate in the daily activities of the of-
fice, June 22, 1992 through September 25, 1992.

Merritt Colaizzi, Bachelors Degree. Lectures/Seminars/Films,
all aspects of museum event production, June 29, 1992
through July 24, 1992.

Clemence Delannoy, Bachelors Candidate, McGill University.
Studio Arts, write intern instruction notebook, dbase
management, office filing and procedures, art supply and
logistic management, May 29, 1992 through June 26, 1992.

Anne England, Bachelors Candidate, University of Kentucky.
Young Associates Program, June 1, 1992 through August
14, 1992.

Susan Foreman, Bachelors Candidate, Clark University. Public
Affairs, assist director of Public Affairs, January 27, 1992
through May 28, 1992.

Kristen Frame, Masters Candidate, American University.
Liaison with office for Family Halloween Party, film pro-
gram research; other duties as assigned, September 14, 1992
through December 18, 1992.

Julie Hart, Bachelors Candidate, Mary Washington College.
Public Affairs, archiving; preparation of publicity and infor-
mation for RAP events for the media and the public,
January 21, 1992 through April 21, 1992.

Kirstin Heasley, Bachelors Candidate, College of William &
Mary. Will be assisting Joanne Gigliotti with scheduling,
registration, and office duties, and coordinating Brown Bag
Lunch program for the Office of Museum Programs, Sep-
tember 14, 1992 through December 24, 1992.

78

Maretta Hemsley, Masters Candidate, American University.
African-American Studio, programs development, June 8,
1992 through June 8, 1993.

Vicki Hill-Borer, Masters Degree. Young Associates Program,
liaison for science and math projects; liaison for Youth
Teachers Assistants; other duties as assigned, February 11,
1992 through June 1, 1992.

Jennifer Kyuig, Bachelors Candidate, Grinnell College.
Studio Arts, intern booklet, office management, database
management, June 1, 1992 through August 14, 1992.

Davida Marks, High School Student, Elizabeth Seton High
School. Young Associates, liaison with summer camp, June
30, 1992 through August 31, 1992.

Julie Mueller, Bachelors Candidate, iowa State University.
Public Affairs, assist the office in dissemination of informa-
tion to the media, June 8, 1992 through August 28, 1992.

Lynne Neely, High School Student, Linworth Alternative
High School. Young Associate Program, will be assisting
Roslyn Beitler working with continuing education
programs. April 6, 1992 through May 29, 1992.

Angela Odom, Bachelors Degree. Discovery Theatre, assist
the director with educational materials, October 21, 1991
through February 1, 1992.

Bethany Ragsdale, High School Student, Harpeth Hall.
Young Associates Program, liaison for the Smithsonian
Kite Festival, research information for summer camp, index
associate for instructors according to science of art, research
potential films and tours, January 6, 1992 through February
24, 1992.

TaKeisha Roach, High School Graduate. Discovery Theatre,
OESE Intern ‘92: assist the director in preparing for the 92-
93 season; research, gather, and evaluate performing arts
education materials, July 13, 1992 through August 14, 1992.

Paul Roy, Bachelors Candidate, Bates College. Studio Arts,
discover graphics; video project, July 6, 1992 through
August 27, 1992.

Aaron Weintraub, High School Student, Winston Churchill
High School. Young Associates, liaison with summer
camp, July 1, 1992 through August 14, 1992.

Smithsonian National Associates Program

James Dyson, Jr., Associates Degree, Northern Virginia Com-
munity College. Analyzing SNAP department operation,
September 8, 1992 through September 29, 1992.

Julie LaBarba, Bachelors Candidate, Vanderbilt University.
Edit copy for tour brochures, update history books, confirm
arrangements for domestic tours, and analyze tour statistics
for future marketing, June 8, 1992 through July 29, 1992.

Samira Lahman, Associates Candidate, Northern Virginia
Community College. Assemble briefing notebook for staff
representatives, updating history books for foriegn and
domestic study tours, making phone reservations and con-
firmations of arrangements for domestic tours, analyzing
tour statistics for future marketing, April 23, 1992 through
May 29, 1992.

Frankie Laino, High School Graduate. Assist in the planning
of the Domestic Study Tours and Research Expeditions,
June 29, 1992 through July 29, 1992.

Amanda Lowthian, Bachelors Degree. Assistant to depart-
ment of Marketing/Publicity for the SI Press, University
Press Division, September 14, 1992 through December 4,
1992.

Julie Oh, Bachelors Candidate, Duke University. Young
Benefactors, public relations support, research projects, as-
sist with preparations for the Young Benefactors Gala, May
26, 1992 though August 21, 1992.

Sarah Schriber, Bachelors Candidate, Smith College. Project
involves creating a seminar involving capitol area writers
(fiction, non-fiction, poetry) and their works, September 8,
1992 through December 8, 1992.

Institutional Initiatives

Office of Development

William Acha-Funge, Masters Candidate, Marymount Univer-
sity. Kenya Project, fund-raising for the project through
the conduction of research on Kenyan politics, corporate
culture, socio-economic base, May 11, 1992 through July 31,
1993.

Jonathan Alvear, Bachelors Candidate, Pomona College.
Pacific Rim Program to find prospective donors, May 27,
1992 through August 26, 1992.

Sara Beam, Bachelors Candidate, Georgetown University.
Pacific Rim research, January 31, 1992 through May 31,
1992.

Margaret Buraimoh, Bachelors Candidate, Howard Univer-
sity. Kenya Project, conduct research at area libraries, inter-
view staff members and develop prospect list for potential
funders, May u, 1992 through June 30, 1993.

Hui-Ching Chang, Masters Candidate, George Washington
University. Assistant Intern coordinator and arrange semi-
nars and study tours for the National Associate Program,
May 18, 1992 through July 30, 1992.

Christine Dauenhauer, Bachelors Candidate, Syracuse Univer-
sity. Produce a newsletter for the museums for fundraising
purposes, June 1, 1992 through September 1, 1992.

Christina Gajda, Bachelors Candidate, American University.
Conduct research on corporations, foundations, and in-
dividuals in Kenya; making files and organizing materials
to develop list for potential funders; develop a question-
naire and interview staff members on their trips to Kenya,
January 17, 1992 through August 20, 1992.

Brooke Garrigan, Bachelors Candidate, Wheaton College.
Assistant Intern Coordinator, September 9,1992 through
December 31, 1992.

Michael Gebremedhin, Bachelors Degree, Ohio University.
Conduct research for the MPALA Ranch Project—STRI
research center, October 22, 1991 through March 31, 1992.

Michele Giovannini, Masters Candidate, University of
Maryland. Newsletter, assist with the Development
Newsletter, January 17, 1992 through July 1, 1992.

Stephen Griesemer, Bachelors Candidate, Yale University.
Research companies for the corporate team, June 16, 1992
through August 31, 1992.

Joni Henderson, Masters Candidate, Drexel University. Ser-
vices to Nation, January 13, 1992 through May 1, 1992.

Carolyn Hoecker, Bachelors Candidate, Princeton Univer-
sity. Work on fundraising for Geology, Gems, &
Minerals Hall in NMNH, July 8, 1992 through August
31, 1992.

Hiromi Isobe, Bachelors Candidate, George Washington
University. Pacific Rim Project, fundraising and research,
May 18, 1992 through October 1, 1992.

Yuki Kaneko, Masters Degree, George Washington Univer-
sity. Pacific Rim Program, May 13, 1992 through January
31, 1993.

Alexander King, Bachelors Candidate, Brown University.
Individual donors, June 1, 1992 through September 21,
1992.

Lesley Kurtz, Bachelors Candidate, George Washington
University. Golden Threads, conduct research on Circa 1492
and Saphardic Jewish Expulsion, January 14, 1992 through
May 31, 1992.

Karen Lehnert, Bachelors Candidate, University of Maryland,
Baltimore Campus. Library, assist with the development
library—computer and public service, January 22, 1992
through April 30, 1992.

Stephen Ma, Bachelors Candidate, Georgetown University. In-
tern database coordinator, May 18, 1992 through October 1,
1992.

Yoko Matsunaga, Bachelors Degree. Pacific Rim Project,
August 11, 1992 through September 30, 1992.

Lovell McClung, Bachelors Candidate, Converse College.
Constituencies intern, June 1, 1992 through September 1,
1992.

Don Perna, Masters Candidate, Dusquesne University.
Database coordinator, January 1, 1992 through May 30,
1992.

Heather Pinckney, High School Student, Eastern High
School. Filing, xeroxing, answering phones, and help where
needed, June 30, 1992 through July 30, 1992.

Julie Rockwell, Bachelors Candidate, Northwestern Univer-
sity. Research on Corporations and foundations, June 15,
1992 through August 14, 1992.

Simone Rollings, Bachelors Candidate, University of Virginia.
Research on corporations and foundations, May 18, 1992
through October 1, 1992.

7?
Jenae Roscoe, Masters Candidate, Howard University. Kenya
Project, September 8, 1992 through July 1, 1993.

Laurel Vogelsang, Masters Degree, University of Maryland.
Kenya Project, January 2, 1992 through April 30, 1992.

Angela Wallace, Bachelors Degree. Library Intern, June 8,
1992 through August 1, 1992.

Ivan Watson, Bachelors Degree. Corporate Relations,
European research specialist: corporations and foundations,
August 17, 1992 through December 31, 1992.

Ellen Wilson, Masters Degree, University of Cincinnati.
MPALA project in OD, working with potential individual
and corporate dbase, January 6, 1992 through July 30, 1992.

Finance and Administration
Business Management Office

Alison Cox, Bachelors Candidate, Howard University. SI
Museum Shops, assist in the design, fabrication, and instal-
lation of shop displays, merchandise promotions, and infor-
mation panels and exhibits in Museum Shops, February 12,
1992 through April 24, 1992.

Office of Architectural History and

Historic Preservation

Jennifer Frehling, Bachelors Degree. Thomas Ustick Walter's
Contributions in the Design of the General Post Office
Building, January 21, 1992 through July 15, 1992.

Barre Klapper, Masters Candidate, University of Texas at Aus-
tin. Architectural Changes to the Original Fabric of the
National Museum of Natural History from its opening in
I9II to present, July 6, 1992 through August 15, 1992.

Robert Orr V, Bachelors Candidate, Yale University. The Car-
michael Years at the Smithsonian Institution: Emergence of
a Modern Architecture, June 15, 1992 through August 28,
1992.

Office of Plant Services

Erika Buck, Bachelors Candidate, Connecticut College. Green-
house Nursery Branch, general greenhouse maintenance,
including assisting with propagation of tropical and other
plants for museum gardens and special events, June 1, 1992
through July 31, 1992.

80

Mark R. Hardin, PhD Candidate, University of Maryland. To
develop an Integrated Pest Management Program for the SI
grounds. This will integrate economically feasible and en-
vironmentally compatible management techniques to
reduce pest populations to tolerable levels. April 4, 1992
through September 30, 1992.

Max Kronenbitter. Worked on the installation and landscap-
ing of the Chinese Lantern which was recently moved from
the front of the Freer Gallery to the east side of the build-
ing, along the walkway on that side; prepared the planting
plan for the area, helped select the materials for the project
and helped install the plants to complete the design,
August 3, 1992 through September 9, 1992.

Dara Seybold, High School Graduate. Plant Services, OESE
Intern ‘92: maintain turf and flower bed areas; work in the
greenhouse, July 13, 1992 through August 14, 1992.

Office of Human Resources

Monique Hider, High School Student, Eastern High School.
Benefits, filing, dealing with computers; assist staff with
confidential work; participate in computer training, June
29, 1992 through August 30, 1992.

Office of Printing and
Photographic Services

Pamela Adams, Associates Candidate, Randolf Community
College. To work in the area of Photojournalism and
documentary photography of the Washington area, to assist
with studio photography and research archival processing,
September 16, 1992 through November 20, 1992.

Martina Aller, Masters Candidate, Corcoran School of Art.
Assisting photographer on assignments and photographing
staff, collections, and events, September 14, 1992 through
December 21, 1992.

James Coggins, Bachelors Candidate, Randolph Community
College. Photographic Services, custom black & white
printing; color processing; reproduction of photographs
form various sources, June 15, 1992 through August 25, 1992.

Antonino Colomba, High School Graduate. Photographic Ser-
vices, OESE Intern ‘92: photograph OESE programs for
teachers and document other interns at their various sites,
June 18, 1992 through July to, 1992.

Andre Greene, High School Graduate. Duplicating, work
with on-going photocopy and duplicating in producing
brochures, reports, and articles for SI; computer work with
mailings, June 29, 1992 through August 30, 1992.
Eric Hood, Bachelors Candidate, Randolph Community
College. Assist with all phases of photographic services,
October 7, 1991 through November I5, 1991.

Susan Kontor, Masters Candidate, American University.
Tamer Collection, catalog, organize George Tames Photo
Collection, June 2, 1992 through August 28, 1992.

Kevin Kornemann, High School Graduate. Photographic Ser-
vices, OESE Intern '92: photography OESE's interns at
work sites, July 13, 1992 through August 14, 1992.

Margaret McCulloch, Bachelors Candidate, University of Pen-
nsylvania. Assist with photography projects, May 26, 1992
through August 28, 1992.

William Showalter, Bachelors Candidate, Randolph Com-
munity College. Assist with all phases of photographic ser-
vices, October 4, 1991 through November 15, 1991.

David Vickery, Bachelors Candidate, Randolph Community
College. Photographic Services, custom black & white
printing; color processing; reproduction of photographs
form various sources, June 15, 1992 through August 25,
1992.

Office of Sponsored Projects

Roberta Buchanan, Masters Candidate, University of
Maryland, College Park. Develop a handbook for principle
investigators; develop a brochure and database, June 3, 1992
through August 14, 1992.

Augustus Jones, Associate Candidate, Prince Georges Com-
munity College. Financial Administration, assist financial
analysts in their Post-Award Administration, June 10, 1992
through August 14, 1992.

Smithsonian Early Enrichment Center

Katherine Porter, High School Graduate. OESE Intern '92:
Assist in researching and coordinating developmentally ap-
propriate museum-based activities for children, July 13,
1992 through August 14, 1992.

81
Research Associates

Research Associate status is conferred by the Secretary on individuals from
outside the Institution who are conducting ongoing research in areas in

which the Smithsonian has collections or expertise. Research Associates are

granted access to the Institution's facilities and reference resources and often

consult or collaborate with Smithsonian researchers. Most appointments of

Research Associates are for a duration of three years and are renewable. The
following list includes all who were Research Associates during the fiscal

year.

Arthur M. Sackler
Gallery of Art

Mrs. Elizabeth Fitzhugh

Conservation Analytical
Laboratory

Dr. Veletta Canouts
Dr. Rita P. Wright

National Museum of
American Art

Dr. Wanda M. Corn
Dr. Charles C. Eldredge

National Museum of
African Art

Dr. Labelle Prussin

82

National Museum of
Natural History

Anthropology

Dr. William P. Barse

Dr. David Begun

Dr. Michael L. Blakey

Dr. Alison S. Brooks

Dr. Ernest S. Burch, Jr.
Dr. Anita G. Cook

Dr. Jean-Paul Dumont
Dr. Robert M. Ehrenreich
Dr. John W. Fisher

Dr. Catherine S. Fowler
Dr. Don Fowler

Dr. George C. Frison

Dr. John M. Fritz

Dr. Bruno Frohlich

Dr. James Lowell Gibbs, Jr.
Dr. James B. Griffin

Dr. Richard T. Koritzer, D.D.S.
Dr. Corinne Ann Kratz
Dr. Betty J. Meggers

Dr. Christopher Nagle
Dr. Michael D. Petraglia
Dr. Stephen R. Potter

Dr. Bruce D. Ragsdale
Dr. Mara E. Rosenthal
Dr. Paul Stoller

Dr. John W. Verano

Dr. Alan C. Walker

Mrs. Mildred Mott Wedel
Dr. John E. Yellen

Botany

Dr. Jose Cuatrecasas
Mr. Joseph H. Kirkbride, Jr.

Dr. Diane S. Littler

Dr. John J. Pipoly, III
Dr. Velva E. Rudd

Dr. William Louis Stern

Entomology

Dr. Annette Aiello

Dr. William E. Bickley
Dr. Harley P. Brown

Dr. Margaret S. Collins
Dr. Eduardo Dominguez
Dr. Lance Durden

Dr. Robert L. Edwards

Dr. Neal L. Evenhuis

Dr. Amnon Freidberg

Dr. Timothy P. Friedlander
Dr. Ralph E. Harbach

Dr. Bruce A. Harrison

Dr. Yiau-Min Huang

Dr. Scott E. Miller

Dr. Paul A. Opler

Dr. Jacqueline Marie Palmer
Dr. Philip D. Perkins

Dr. Dan A. Polhemus

Dr. John T. Polhemus

Dr. Patricia Gentili Poole
Dr. John F. Reinert

Dr. Silvia Santiago-Fragoso
Dr. Jay C. Schaffer

Mr. Theodore J. Spilman
Prof. Katsuji Tsuneki

Dr. George B. Vogt

Dr. David P. Wooldridge
Dr. Frank N. Young

Invertebrate Zoology

Dr. Richard B. Aronson
Dr. Rudiger Bieler

Dr. John R. Holsinger
Dr. Silvard Kool

Dr. Richard T. O'Grady
Mr. Richard E. Petit
Dr. Donald C. Potts
Dr. Marjorie L. Reaka
Dr. Janet W. Reid

Dr. James D. Thomas
Dr. Michael Vecchione

Paleobiology

Dr. Raymond L. Bernor
Dr. Annalisa Berta
Dr. Robyn Burnham
Dr. Steven J. Culver
Dr. John D. Damuth
Dr. Daryl P. Domning
Mr. J. Thomas Dutro, Jr.
Dr. Ralph E. Eshelman
Dr. Jerzy Fedorowski
Dr. Thomas G. Gibson
Dr. Robert W. Hook
Dr. Carl F Koch

Dr. Paul L. Koch

Dr. Sergius Mamay

Dr. Jerry N. McDonald
Dr. Robert B. Neuman

Dr. William A. Oliver, Jr.

Dr. John Pojeta, Jr.

Dr. Kenneth D. Rose
Dr. Bruce Runnegar
Dr. William J. Sando
Dr. David E. Schindel
Dr. Judith Skog

Dr. Anthony Socci

Dr. Norman F. Sohl
Dr. Hans-Dieter Sues
Dr. Debra Ann Willard
Dr. Christopher Wnuk
Dr. Ellis L. Yochelson

Vertebrate Zoology

Dr. Ronald Altig

Dr. Aaron M. Bauer

Mr. Bruce M. Beehler

Dr. Robert L. Brownell
Dr. John E. Cadle

Mr. Roger B. Clapp

Dr. Kenneth Dodd

Dr. Louise H. Emmons
Mr. Carl H. Ernst

Ms. Sara V. Fink

Dr. William Fink

Mr. Thomas H. Fritts

Dr. Alfred L. Gardner
Dr. J. Whitfield Gibbons
Mrs. Catharine A. Hawks
Dr. Lawrence R. Heaney
Dr. Richard Highton

Dr. Robert S. Hoffmann

Dr. Aleta Hohn

Dr. Peter W. Houde

Mr. Ivan Ineich

Mr. Morton L. Isler

Mrs. Phyllis R. Isler

Ms. Roxie Laybourne

Dr. Linda E. Resnik Maxson
Mr. Roy W. McDiarmid
Dr. D. Bruce Means

Dr. Naercio Menezes

Dr. Ronald I. Miller

Mr. Joseph C. Mitchell

Dr. Thomas A. Munroe

Dr. Guy G. Musser

Dr. Hidetoshi Ota

Dr. William Perrin

Mr. Gregory K. Pregill

Dr. John E. Randall

The Honorable S. Dillon Ripley, II
Dr. Sentiel A. Rommel

Dr. Michael Leonard Smith
Dr. William F. Smith-Vaniz
Dr. David L. Stein

Mr. Ian R. Swingland

Dr. Merrill Varn

Mr. Richard J. Wassersug
Dr. E.O. Wiley

Dr. Don E. Wilson

National Zoological Park

Dr. Mary E. Allen

Dr. Joel Berger

Dr. Adelmar Coimbra-Filho
Dr. Carolyn M. Crockett
Dr. Priya Davidar

Dr. John F. Eisenberg
Dr. John G. Frazier

Dr. Karen L. Goodrowe
Dr. Theodore I. Grand
Dr. Susan M. Haig

Dr. Sara J. Iverson

Dr. William J. McShea
Dr. Charles Menzel

Dr. Brian Miller

Dr. Dale Miquelle

Mr. Steven L. Monfort
Dr. Stephen J. O’Brien
Dr. William F. Rall
Dr. Mitchel Schiewe
Dr. George Schwede
Dr. Michael Stuwe

Dr. Melvin E. Sunquist
Dr. Samuel K. Wasser

Office Interdisciplinary
Studies

Dr. Wilton S. Dillon

Smithsonian
Environmental Research
Center

Dr. Richard Smucker

Smithsonian Institution
Libraries

Mr. Silvio A. Bedini
Miss Jean Chandler Smith

Smithsonian Tropical
Research Institute

Dr. Peter Shaw Ashton
Dr. Stephen P. Hubbell

83
Appendix 4

Publications of the Smithsonian
Institution Press in
Fiscal Year 1992

During fiscal year 1992, the Smithsonian Institution
Press released more than 150 publications, including
trade books, exhibition catalogs, monographs, museum
guides, brochures, pamphlets, videos, and sound record-
ings, the most important of which are listed below.

University Press

Arbon, Lee, They Also Flew: The Enlisted Pilot Legacy, 1912-
1942. March 1992.

Baron, Robert, and Nicholas R. Spitzer, Public Folklore.
September 1992.

Bachmann, Constanze, ed., Conservation Concerns: A Guide for
Collectors and Curators. Copublished with the Cooper-
Hewitt National Museum of Design. April 1992.

Bateson, Mary Catherine, Our Own Metaphor: A Personal
Account of a Conference on the Effects of Conscious Purpose on
Human Adaptation. New edition. October 1991.

Beissinger, Steven R., and Noel F. R. Snyder, New World
Parrots in Crisis: Solutions from Conservation Biology.
January 1992.

Belcher, Michael, Exhibitions in Museums. A copublication
with Leicester University Press. April 1992.

Boime, Albert, The Magisterial Gaze: Manifest Destiny and
American Landscape Painting (ca. 1830-1865). December
1991.

Bredhoff, Stacey, DRAW! Political Cartoons from the Left. Dis-
tributed for the National Archives. December 1991.

Burger, Barbara Lewis, Guide to the Holdings of the Still Picture
Branch of the National Archives. Distributed for the National
Archives. December 1991.

Brooks, Peter, Zeppelin: Rigid Airships, 1893-1940. Copublished
with Conway Maritime Press, London. July 1992.

84

Butler, Linda, Rural Japan: Radiance of the Ordinary. February
1992.

Carlebach, Michael L., The Origins of Photojournalism in
America. August 1992.

Chalou, George C., ed., The Secrets War: The Ofice of Strategic
Services in World War II. Distributed for the National Ar-
chives. July 1992.

Cowan, C. Wesley, and Patty Jo Watson, eds., The Origins of
Agriculture: An International Perspective. August 1992.

D’Altroy, Terence N., Provincial Power in the Inka Empire.
August 1992.

Eisler, Colin, Direr’s Animals. October 1991.

Ellanna, Linda J., and Andrew Balluta, Nuvendalton Quht’ana:
The People of Nondalton. Copublished with the National
Park Service. July 1992.

Ernst, Carl H., Venomous Reptiles of North America. July 1992.

Ferguson, Leland, Uncommon Ground: Archaeology and Colonial
African America. December 1991.

Fletcher, Valerie, Crosscurrents of Modernism: Four Latin
American Pioneers. Copublished with the Hirshhorn
Museum and Sculpture Garden. August 1992.

Fowles, Jib, Starstruck: Celebrity Performers and the American
Public. February 1992.

Fozard, John W., ed., Sydney Camm and the Hurricane: Perspec-
tives on the Master Fighter Designer and His Finest Achievement.
Copublished with Airlife Publishing, Shrewsbury,
England. October 1991.

Friedlander, Lee, Maria: Photographs by Lee Friedlander.
September 1992.

Gorn, Michael H., The Universal Man: Theodore von Karmdn’s
Life in Aeronautics. July 1992.

Griehl, Manfred, Dornier DO 217-317-417. Copublished with
Airlife Publishing, Shrewsbury, England. September 1992.

Hagan, John M., III, and David W Johnston, eds., Ecology and
Conservation of Neotropical Migrant Landbirds. July 1992.

Hall, Robert L., Gathered Visions: Selected Works by African
American Women Artists. Copublished with the Anacostia
Museum. August 1992.

Hallion, Richard P., Storm over Iraq: Air Power and the Gulf
War. September 1992.

Handley, Charles O., Jr., Don E. Wilson, and Alfred L.
Gardner, eds.,Demography and Natural History of the Common
Fruit Bat: Artibeus jamaicensis on Barro Colorado Island,
Panama. Originally published as Smithsonian Contribu-
tions to Zoology, Number 5u. July 1992.

Hirano, Kyoko, Mr. Smith Goes to Tokyo: Japanese Cinema under
the American Occupation. September 1992.

Holliday, Vance T., Soils in Archaeology: Landscape Evolution and
Human Occupation. February 1992.

Howard, A. E. Dick, ed., The United States Constitution: Roots,
Rights, and Responsibilities. May 1992.

Jenshel, Len, Travels in the American West: Photographs by Len
Jenshel. June 1992.

Johnsgard, Paul A., Crane Music: A Natural History of
American Cranes. October 1991.
Karp, Ivan, Christine Mullen Kreamer, and Steven D. Lavine,
eds., Museums and Communities: The Polttics of Public Culture.
May 1992.

Kennedy, Jean, New Currents, Ancient Rivers: Contemporary
African Artists in a Generation of Change. July 1992.

Kinsey, Joni Louise, Thomas Moran and the Surveying of the
American West. June 1992.

Kotler, Neil G., ed., Frontiers of Nutrition and Food Security in
Asta, Africa, and Latin America. July 1992.

Leibovitz, Annie, Dancers: Photographs by Annie Leibovitz.
September 1992.

Lowden, John L., Silent Wings at War: Combat Gliders in World
War II. March 1992.

Lubarsky, Jared, Noble Heritage: Five Centuries of Portraits from
the Hosokawa Family. Copublished with the National
Portrait Gallery. August 1992.

McDowell, Nancy, The Mandugumor: From the Field Notes of
Margaret Mead and Reo Fortune. October 1991.

McFarland, Stephen L., and Wesley Phillips Newton, To
Command the Sky: The Battle for Air Superiority over Germany,
1942-1944. October 1991.

Melder, Keith, Hail to the Candidate: Presidential Campaigns
from Banners to Broadcasts. April 1992.

Meltzer, David J., and Robert C. Dunnell, eds., William Henry
Holmes and the Origins of American Archaeology. August 1992.

Merrill, Linda, A Pot of Paint: Aesthetics on Trial in Whistler v.
Ruskin. February 1992.

Miller, Jacqueline Y., The Common Names of North American
Butterflies. March 1992.

Murray, Colin, Black Mountain: Land, Class, and Power in the
Eastern Orange Free State, 18805 to 1980s. Copublished with
Edinburgh University Press. August 1992.

Oddy, Andrew, ed., The Art of the Conservator. Copublished
with the British Museum. June 1992.

Olson, Lester C., Emblems of American Community in the Revolu-
tionary Era: A Study in Rhetorical Iconology. October 1991.
Ordway, Frederick I., III, and Randy Lieberman, Blueprint for

Space: From Science Fiction to Science Fact. January 1992.

Pearce, Susan M., ed., Museum Studies in Material Culture.
Copublished with Leicester University Press. January 1992.

Peden, Margaret Sayers, and Carole Patterson, Out of the
Volcano: Portraits of Contemporary Mexican Artists. November
1991.

Perlman, Barbara H., A//an Houser (Ha-o-zous). New edition.
Distributed for the Gallery Wall. April 1992.

Porter, Lewis, ed., A Lester Young Reader. October 1991.

Porter, Susan L., With an Air Debonair: Musical Theater in
America, 1785-1815. October 1991.

Protopappas, John J., and Alvin R. McNeal, Washington on
Foot: 23 Walking Tours of Washington, D.C., and Old Town
Alexandria. Fourth edition, revised. February 1992.

Raymond, Jack, Show Music on Record: The First Hundred Years.
Revised edition. April 1992.

Rotenberg, Robert, Time and Order in Metropolitan Vienna: A
Seizure of Schedules. July 1992.

Rothenberg, Marc, ed., The Papers of Joseph Henry, Volume 6.
June 1992.

Sandler, Stanley, Segregated Skies: All-Black Combat Squadrons of
World War II. April 1992.

Schwartz, Dona, Waucoma Twilight: Generations of the Farm.
September 1992.

Seitz, William C., edited by Marla Price, Art in the Age of
Aquarius, 1955-1970. September 1992.

Shamley, Sarah L., Television Interviews, 1951-1955 A Catalog of
Longines Chronoscope Interviews in the National Archives. Dis-
tributed for the National Archives. December 1991.

Smith, Bruce D., Rivers of Change: Essays on Early Agriculture
in Eastern North America. August 1992.

Swann, Brian, ed., On the Translation of Native American Litera-
ture. April 1992.

Taylor, Christopher C., Milk, Honey, and Money: Changing
Concepts in Rwandan Healing. June 1992.

Thompson, Milton O., At the Edge of Space: The X-15 Flight
Program. March 1992.

Vaché, Warren W., Sr., Crazy Fingers: Claude Hopkins’ Life In
Jazz. May 1992.

Walthall, John A., and Thomas E. Emerson, eds., Calumet and
Fleur-de-Lys: Archaeology of Indian and French Contact in the
Midcontinent. August 1992.

Weber, Bruce, Hotel Room with a View: Photographs by Bruce
Weber. June 1992.

Wells, Dicky, as told to Stanley Dance, The Night People: The
Jazz Life of Dicky Wells. Revised edition. October 1991.

Werbner, Richard, Tears of the Dead: The Social Biography of an
African Family. Copublished with Edinburgh University
Press. June 1992.

Wolbarst, Anthony B., Environment in Peril. January 1992.

Smithsonian Institution Books

Ethell, Jeffrey L., Frontiers of Flight. September 1992.

Olmert, Michael, The Smithsonian Book of Books. August 1992.

Washington, D.C.: A Smithsonian Book of the Nation’s Capital.
August 1992.

Book Development Division

Hehner, Barbara Embury, B/ve Planet, based on the film of the
same name. September 1992.

Smithsonian Recordings

From This Moment On: The Songs of Cole Porter, centennial
tribute presenting eighty-four songs; four-compact disc or
four-cassette boxed set, with sixty-page illustrated biog-
raphy and annotation by Dwight Bowers; RD 047. April
1992.

The Music of Jelly Roll Morton, volume 2: Chicago: The Red Hot
Peppers, nineteen compositions for New Orleans-style jazz
band, single compact disc, RD 044. November 1991.

85
The Music of Jelly Roll Morton, volume 3: New York, Washington,
and the Rediscovery, seventeen selections revealing Morton's
reaction to changing musical trends in the late 1920s and
early 1930s, single compact disc, RC 045. November 1991.

Songbook Series

A multivolume series of recordings celebrating
America’s favorite songwriters. Each compact disk and
cassette includes notes on the selections and a biographi-

cal sketch of the composer.

Volume 1: Irving Berlin, RD 048-1. January 1992.

Volume 2: George Gershwin, RD 048-2. February 1992.
Volume 3: Cole Porter, RD 048-3. April 1992.

Volume 4: Jerome Kern, RD 048-4. May 1992.

Volume 5: Harold Arlen, RD 048-5. July 1992.

Volume 6: Rodgers & Hart, RD 048-6. August 1992.
Volume 7: Oscar Hammerstein, RD 048-7. September 1992.

Smithsonian Video Division

Endgame by Samuel Beckett, Beckett Directs Beckett series
video. Coproduced with the University of Maryland/Col-
lege Park Visual Press and the San Quentin Drama
Workshop. September 1992.

Inside Hawaiian Volcanoes, coproduced by the National Museum
of Natural History, the U.S. Geological Survey, and Maurice P.
Krafft, director of the Center of Volcanology, Vulcain, France.
Distributed by Smithsonian Video Division.

Penguin World, coproduced with the Marine Mammal Fund.
June 1992.

Federal Series Publications

Smithsonian Contributions to Botany

80. “A Taxonomic Revision of the Moss Families Hookeriacea
and Hypopterygiacea in Malaya,” by Haji Mohamed and
Harold Robinson. 44 pages, 168 figures. (18 Dec 91)

Smithsonian Contributions to Paleobiology

69. “New Enaliarctos* (Pinnipedimorpha) from the Oligocene
and Miocene of Oregon and the Role of ‘Enaliarctids’ in
Pinniped Phylogeny,” by Annalisa Berta. 33 pages, 22
figures. (16 Dec 91)

70. “Morphology, Anatomy, and Systematics of the
Cinctiporidae, New Family (Bryozoa: Stenolaemata),” by
Richard S. Boardman, Frank K. McKinney, and Paul D.
Taylor. 81 pages, 137 figures. (14 Apr 92)

71. “A New Genus and Species of Boxfish (Tetraodontiformes:
Ostraciidae) from the Oligocene of Maravia, the Second Fos-
sil Representative of the Family,” by James C. Tyler and
Ruzena Gregorova. 20 pages, 8 figures, 1 table. (16 Dec 91)

86

Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology

510. “Monograph of the Genus Cerithium Brugiére in the Indo-
Pacific (Cerithiidae: Prosobranchia),” by Richard S.
Houbrick. 211 pages, 145 figures, 45 tables. (29 Sep 92)

5u. “Demography and Natural History of the Common Fruit
Bat, Artibeus jamaicensis, on Barro Colorado Island,
Panama,” edited by Charles O. Handley, Jr., Don E. Wil-
son, and Alfred L. Gardner. 173 pages, 69 figures, 62 tables.
(27 Dec 91)

513. “‘Larval’ and Juvenile Cephalopods: A Manuai for Their Iden-
tification,” edited by Michael J. Sweeney, Clyde EE. Roper,
Katharina M. Mangold, Malcom R. Clarke, and SIgurd v.
Boletsky. 282 pages, 277 figures, 6 tables. (10 Feb 92)

515. “Biosystermatic Studies of Ceylonese Wasps, XIX: Natural
History Notes in Several Families (Hymenoptera:
Eumenidae, Vespidae, Pompiliae, and Crabronidae),” by
Karl V. Krombein. 41 pages, 59 figures. (9 Oct 91)

520. “Studies of Neotropical Caddisflies, XLV: The Taxonomy,
Phenology, and Faunistics of the Trichoptera of Antioquia,
Colombia,” by Oliver S. Flint, Jr. 113 pages, 412 figures, 1
map, 6 graphs, u1 tables. (9 Oct 91)

521. “Stomatopod Crustacea Collected by the Galathea Expedi-
tion, 1950—1952, with a List of Stomatapoda Known from
Depths below 400 Meters,” by Raymond B. Manning. 18
pages, 12 figures. (17 Oct 91)

523. “A Review of the Genus Exnice (Polychaeta: Eunicidae)
Based upon Type Material,” by Kristian Fauchald. 422
pages, 117 figures, 53 tables. (11 Mar 92)

524. “Biology and Systematics of Greya Busck and Tetragma,
new genus (Lepidoptera: Prodoxidae),” by Donald R.
Davis, Olle Pellmyr, and John N. Thompson. 88 pages, 375
figures, 7 maps. (26 Feb 92)

525. “Catalog of Type Specimens of Recent Fishes in the Na-
tional Museum of Natural History, Smithsonian Institu-
tion, 3: Beloniformes (Teleostei),” by Bruce B. COllette,
N.V. Parin, and Martha S. Nizinski. 16 pages. (6 Feb 92)

526. “Pycnogonida of the Southeast Pacific Biological
Oceanographic Project (SEPBOP),” by C. Allan Child. 43
pages, 16 figures. (14 May 92)

527. “A Review of the Grapsid Crab Genus Sesarma (Crus-
tacea: Decapoda: Grapsidae) in America, with the Descrip-
tion of a New Genus,” by Lawrence G. Abele. 60 pages, 41
figures, 1 table. (1 Sep 92)

528. “The Aquatic Beetle Subfamily Larainae (Coleoptera: El-
midae) in Mexico, Central America, and the West Indies,”
by Paul J. Spangler and Sylvia Santiago-Fragosa. 74 pages,
267 figures. (14 Aug 92)

529. “Systematics of the Neotropical Characiform Genus
Cyphocharax Fowler (Pisces: Ostariophysi),” by Richard P.
Vari. 137 pages, 93 figures, 15 tables. (14 Aug 92)

530. “Ostracoda (Halocypridina, Cladocopina) from
Anchialine Caves in Jamaica, West Indies,” by Louis S.
Kornicker and Thomas M. Iliffe. 22 pages, 11 figures, 1
table. (11 Sep 92)
532. “Contributions to the Polychaete Family Pholoidae
Kinberg,” by Marian H. Pettibone. 24 pages, 12 figures.
(23 Sep 92)

533. “Systematics of the Neotropical Characiform Genus
Curimatella Eigenmann (Pisces: Ostariophysi), with Sum-
mary Comments on the Curimatidae,” by Richard P. Vari.
48 pages, 37 figures, 6 tables. (11 Jun 92)

534. “The Mating Behavior of Iguana iguana,” by Gordon H.
Rodda. 40 pages, 18 figures, 11 tables. (11 Sep 92)

535. “Catalog of Type Specimens of Recent Fishes in the Na-
tional Museum of Natural History, Smithsonian Institu-
tion, 4: Gonorynchiformes, Gymnotiformes, and
Siluriformes (Teleostei: Ostariophysi),” by Carl J. Ferraris,
Jr., and Richard P. Vari. (11 Sep 92)

Publications for Museums, Bureaus, and
Related Organizations

Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, calendar of events,
published three times a year.

National Museum of African Art, calendar of events, publish-
ed four times a year.

, The Art of the Personal Object, flier. September

1992.

, Echoes of the Kalabari: Sculptures by Sokari Douglas

Camp, booklet. September 1992.

, Educational Programs, 1992-1993, brochure.

August 1992.

, History, Design, and Craft in West Indian Strip-Woven

Cloth, book. May 1992.

, National Museum of African Art Internship Program,

brochure. December 1991.

, The Permanent Collection of the National Museum of

African Art, brochure. March 1992.

, Purpose and Perfection: Pottery as a Woman's Art in
Central Africa, brochure. September 1992.

National Museum of Natural History, Atoll Research Bulletin
335-364. September 1992.

, Atoll Research Bulletin 365-378. September 1992.

Office of Fellowships and Grants, Fellowships in Residence at the
Smithsonian Institution, poster. September 1992.

, Smithsonian Opportunities for Research and Study, book-
let. September 1992.

Office of the Secretary, Bylaws of the Board of Regents and
Charter Provisions of the Smithsonian Institution (1992), book-
let. December 1991.

Smithsonian Institution, Smithsonian Year 1991 May 1992.

, Smithsonian Year 1991 Supplement: Chronology and
Appendixes. May 1992.

Smithsonian Institution Archives, Guide to the Papers of S.
Stillman Berry. September 1992.

Smithsonian Institution Libraries, SIL User Guide / Information
Jor Borrowers, brochure. May 1992.

87
Appendix 5

Publications of the Staff of the
Smithsonian Institution and Its
Subsidiaries in Fiscal Year 1992

Office of Public Affairs

The Torch. A monthly newspaper for Smithsonian employees,
featuring profiles, question-and-answer columns about
interesting jobs, previews of upcoming events, classified
ads, and more. Circulation is 10,200, which includes staff,
volunteers, and a list of interested individuals and
organizations outside the Smithsonian. Editor: David Lewis

Smithsonian Institution Research Reports. A quarterly
newsletter that disseminates information on Smithsonian
research to an audience of about 80,000 readers (10,000
scientists, libraries, museums, universities, journalists, and
others and 70,000 Contributing Members of the National
Associate Program). Editor: Jo Ann Webb

Smithsonian Runner. A bimonthly newsletter for Native
Americans, featuring informational updates on the
National Museum of the American Indian and articles on
research and other projects, activities, and events at the
Smithsonian that are of particular interest to Native
Americans. Circulation is more than 18,000, which includes
Native American journalists and community leaders, as
well as members of the National Museum of the American
Indian. Editor: Dan Agent

Exploring African American Heritage at the Smithsonian. A 12-page,
four-color visitor brochure for secondary-school students and
the general public. Coordinator: Lilas Wiltshire

African & African American Resources at the Smithsonian. A
32-page, two-color brochure with detailed information on
behind-the-scenes research, collections, and employment
opportunities and specific activities for scholars, journalists,
students, and others. Coordinator: Kathryn Lindeman

Smithsonian News Service. A feature-story service that
provides four articles and appropriate artwork each month
to more than 1,000 daily and weekly newspapers and other
media in the United States and abroad. Syndicated

88

internationally by the New York Times Syndication Sales,
Inc. Executive Editor: Madeleine Jacobs

Joseph Henry Papers

Rothenberg, Marc, Kathleen W. Dorman, John C. Rumm,
and Paul H. Theerman, editors. The Papers of Joseph Henry.
Volume 6: 1844-1846: The Princeton Years. Washington, D.C.:
Smithsonian Institution Press, 1992

Rumm, John C. “Scientific Management and Industrial
Engineering at Du Pont” in A Mental Revolution: Scientific
Management since Taylor, edited by Daniel Nelson.
Columbus: Ohio University Press, 1992, pp. 175-204.

American Studies Program

Washburn, Wilcomb E. “Dozuho to Amerika Indian —
Indian buzoku-sei no hakai,” [The Assault on Indian
Tribalism: The General Allotment Law of 1877] translated
by Uzuki Hironari and Nishide Keiichi. Hokkaido to
Amerika. Indian (Amerika kenkyu sho tokushu}. In
Sapporo Gakuin Daigaku Jimmon Gakkai Kiyo, Vol. 45
bessatsu (reprint) (August 1989), pp. 23-91.

. “Indian-White Relations,” The Reader's Companion to

American History, edited by Eric Foner and John A. Garraty

(Boston: Houghton Mifflin Co., 1991), pp. 556-559-

M. “The “Treason of the Intellectuals,’ 1989”

(Herndon, Virginia: Young America’s Foundation, October

10, 1991), 26 pp.

. Articles on Exploration and Discovery before 1492,

Landfall Controversy, and Vinland Map, in The Christopher

Columbus Encyclopedia, edited by Silvio A. Bedini, 2 vols.

(New York: Simon & Schuster, 1992), pp. 257-261, 401-408,

and 690-692.

. “Marvels, Maps and Monsters: Europe Eyes the

New World,” in Imagining the New World: Columbian

Iconography. Catalogue edited by Irma B. Jaffe, Gianni

Eugenio Viola, and Franca Rovigatti (Rome: Istituto
della Enciclopedia Italiana 1991, pp. 1-15 (Catalogue for
exhibition at the New-York Historical Society Museum
on the occasion of the Quincentenary of the European
Encounter with the Americas, November 13,
1991-January 26, 1992).

. Guerres Indiennes du Mayflower a Wounded Knee,
written with Robert M. Utley; translated by Simone
Pellerin (Paris: Albin Michel, 1992), 274 pp.

. “The Chop Revisited,” Heterodoxy, vol. 1, no. 1 (April
1992), p. 16.

Sciences

Conservation Analytical Laboratory

Alexander, Ingrid C. “Contributions to the Physico-Chemical
Research on Fifteenth Century Paintings: A Study of
Italian and Flemish Painting Techniques,” Revue des
Archéologues et Historiens d’Art de Louvain, 1992, 175-178.

. “Processes and Performance in Renaissance
Painting,” Materials Research Society Bulletin, vol. XVI,
January, 1992, 28-31.

Baker, Mary T., and Ed McManus. “History, Care, and
Handling of America’s Spacesuits: Problems in Modern
Materials,” Journal of the American Institute for Conservation,
vol. 31, 1992, 77-85.

Ballard, M.W. “Emergency Planning,” Conservation Concerns: A
Guide for Collectors and Curators, edited by Konstanze
Bachmann, Washington, DC, Smithsonian Institution
Press, 1992, I-14.

and P. Czubay. “Latex Misuse on Historic Carpets and
Textiles,” Polymer Preprints, vol. 33, no. 2, Papers Presented
at the 204th ACS National Meeting, Washington, DC,
August 1992, 664-665.

Bishop, Ronald L. “Instrumentation and the Future,”
Americanist Archaeology Goals and Practice, edited by L.
Wandsnider, Carbondale, Center for Archaeological
Investigations at Southern [Ilinois University at
Carbondale, 1992, 160-169.

. “Comments on Section II: Variation,” Chemical

Characterization of Ceramic Paste, edited by H. Neff,

Monographs in World Archaeology, no. 7, Madison,

Prehistory Press, 1992, 167-170.

. “Comments on Section III: Applications,” Chemical

Characterization of Ceramic Paste, edited by H. Neff,

Monographs in World Archaeology, no. 7, Madison,

Prehistory Press, 1992, 287-289.

, Frederick W. Lange, and Elizabeth K. Easby. “Jade

in Meso-America. Pre-Columbian Jade in the Central and

Southern Americas,” Jade, edited by R. Keverne, London,

Anness Publishing, 1991, 316-337.

, Frederick W. Lange, Peter C. Lange, and Suzanne
Abel-Vidor. “Compositional Characterization of the
Nicaraguan Ceramic Sample,” The Archaeology of Pacific
Nicaragua, edited by F. W. Lange, P. D. Sheets, A.
Martinez, and S. Abel-Vidor, Albuquerque, University of
New Mexico Press, 1992, 135-162.

Blackman, M.J. “The Effect of Human Size Sorting on the
Mineralogy and Chemistry of Ceramic Clays,” Chemical
Characterization of Ceramic Pastes in Archaeology, edited by
Hector Neff, Madison: Prehistory Press, 1992, 113-124.

, and M. Vidale. “The Production and Distribution of

Stoneware Bangles at Mohenjo-Daro and Harappa as

Monitored by Chemical Characterization Studies,” South

Asian Archaeology 1989, edited by Catherine Jarrige,
Madison: Prehistory Press, 1992, 37-43.

Brill, Robert H., I. Lynus Barnes, Emile C. Joel. “Lead Isotope
Studies of Early Chinese Glasses,” Scientific Research in Early
Chinese Glass, Proceedings of the Archaeometry of Glass
Sessions of the 1984 International Symposium on Glass
Beijing, September 7, 1984 with Supplementary Papers,
edited by Robert H. Brill and John H. Martin, The
Corning Museum of Glass, Corning, NY, 1991, 65-83.

Brown, B. Floyd, Harry C. Burnett, W. Thomas Chase,
Martha Goodway, Jerome Kruger, and Marcel Pourbaix,
editors. Corrosion and Metal Artifacts. Originally published
in 1976 as NBS Special Publication 479, republished
Houston, Texas: the National Association of Corrosion
Engineers, as a NACE Classic, 1992.

Crown, Patricia L., and Ronald L. Bishop. “Manufacture of
Gila Polychrome in the Greater American Southwest: An
Instrumental Neutron Activation Analysis,” Homol’ovi II:
Archaeology of an Ancestral Hopi Village, Arizona, edited by
E.C. Adams and K.A. Hays, Anthropological Papers of the
University of Arizona 55, Tucson, The University of
Arizona Press, 1991, 49-74.

England, Pamela, James C.Y. Watt, and Lambertus van Zelst.
“Analyses of Some Qing Period Chinese Glasses: An
Interim Report,” Scientific Research in Early Chinese Glass,
Proceedings of the Archaeometry of Glass Sessions of the
1984 International Symposium on Glass Beijing, September
7, 1984 with Supplementary Papers, edited by Robert H.
Brill and John H. Martin, The Corning Museum of Glass,
Corning, NY, 1991, 103-107.

Erhardt, David. Contributor, Art in transit: Handbook for
Packing and Transporting Paintings, edited by M. Richard,
M. Mecklenburg, and R. Merrill, Washington: National
Gallery of Art, 1991.

Erlebacher, J.D., M.E. Mecklenburg, and C.S. Tumosa. “The
Mechanical Behavior of Artist's Acrylic Paints with
Changing Temperature and Relative Humidity,” Po/ymer
Preprints, vol. 33, no. 2, Papers Presented at the 204th ACS
National Meeting, Washington, DC, August 1992, 646-647.

Foias, Antonia, James Brady, Carolina Foncea de Ponciano,
David Stuart, Maria Teresa Robles, and Ronald L. Bishop.
“Analisis preliminar de la ceramica de los sitios de la regién
de Petexbatin,” IV Simposio de Arqueologia Guatemalteca,
Museo Nacional de Arqueologta y Etnologia, Julio de 1990,
edited by J. P. Laporte, H. L. Escobedo, and S. Villagran de
Brady, Guatemala, Ministerio de Cultura y Deportes,
Instituto de Antropologia e Historia, and Asociacién Tikal,
1992, 179-200.

Gianno, R., W.D. Erhardt, D.W. Von Endt., W.R. Hopwood
and M.T. Baker. “The Resins from Three Southesast Asian
Shipwrecks.” Museam Applied Science-Center for Archeology
Occasional Papers, 1991, 59.

Gleason, Margaret A., Lisa A. Kronthal, Harriet F. Beaubien,
Carol A. Grissom, and Donald C. Williams. “Treatment of
the U.S. House of Representatives’ Mace: An Object in

89
Use,” Papers Presented at the Wooden Artifacts Group,
American Institute for Conservation Annual Meeting,
Buffalo, 1992, 67-75.

Glumac, Petar D. “Introduction,” Recent Trends in
Archaeometallurgical Research, University of Pennsylvania,
PA, vol. 8, part I, 1991, 5-6.

. “Early Metallurgy in Southeast Europe: The

Evidence for Production,” Recent Trends in

Archaeometallurgical Research, University of Pennsylvania,

PA, vol. 8, part I, 1991, 8-19.

, editor. Recent Trends in Archaeometallurgical Research,
MASCA Research Papers in Science and Archaeology,
University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, vol. 8, part I,
1991.

Goodfriend, G.A., P.-E. Hare and D.W. Von Endt. “Rapid
Racemization of Aspartic Acid in Biogenic Carbonates as a
Means of Dating on a Decadal Time Scale.” Geological Society
of America Bulletin, 1991, 105.

Goodway, Martha, and William R. Savage. “Coulomb's data
on harpsichord wire,” MRS Bulletin, 17 January 1992, 24-27.

. “Kenneth Barraclough,” obituary, Society for

Archaeological Sciences Bulletin 14 3, 1991, 10.

. “News of Archaeometallurgy,” Society for

Archaeological Sciences Bulletin 14 3, 1991, 8-10.

. “News of Archaeometallurgy,” Society for

Archaeological Sciences Bulletin 14 4, 1991, 7.

. “News of Archaeometallurgy,” Society for

Archaeological Sciences Bulletin 15 1, 1992, 1.

. “News of Archaeometallurgy,” Society for

Archaeological Sciences Bulletin 15 2, 1992, L

. “William Rostoker,” obituary, Society for

Archaeological Sciences Bulletin 14 3, 1991, 10.

, and Jay Scott Odell. “The Smithsonian harpsichord
wire project, or what was the old wire really like?,” Saiten
und thre Herstellung in Vergangenheit Gagenwart, Beiheft u zu
den Studien der Auffiirungspraxis und Interpretation der
Musik des 18. Jahrhunderts, Proceedings of the 9th
Symposium on Questions of Musical Instrument Making,
11-12 Michaelstein 1988, Michaelstein/Blankenburg 1991,
41-46.

Hansen, Richard D., Ronald L. Bishop, and Fedrico Fahsen.
“Notes on Maya Codex-style Ceramics from Nakbe, Peten,
Guatemala,” Ancient Mesoamerica 2 1992, 225-244.

, Fedrico Fahsen, and Ronald L. Bishop. “Escribas,
cédices y vasas: estudios de un vaso cédice de Nakbe,” V.
Simposio de Investigaciones Arqueologicas en Guatemala, Museo
Nacional de Arqueologia y Ethnologia, 15-18 de julio de 1991,
edited by J. P. Laporte, H. L. Escobedo A., and S. Villagran
de Brady, Guatemala, Ministerio de Cultura y Deportes,
Instituto de Antropologia e Historia, and the Asociacion
Tikal, 1992, 317-326.

Harbortle, Garman, and Ronald L. Bishop. “Commentary on
Technique,” Chemical Characterization of Ceramic Paste,
edited by H. Neff, Monographs in World Archaeology, no.
7, Madison, Prehistory Press, 1992, 27-30.

90

Henrickson, R.C. and M.J. Blackman. “Style and Paste:
Investigating the Production of Godin III Buff Painted
Ware,” Chemical Characterization of Ceramic Pastes in
Archaeology, edited by Hector Neff, Madison: Prehistory
Press, 1992, 125-144.

Hodge, M.G., H. Neff, M.J. Blackman, and L.D. Minc. “A
Compositional Perspective on Ceramic Production in the
Aztec Empire,” Chemical Characterization of Ceramic Pastes in
Archaeology, edited by Hector Neff, Madison: Prehistory
Press, 1992, 203-220.

Hopkins, J., L. Brenner and C. §. Tumosa. “Variation of the
Amide I and Amide II Peak Absorbance Ratio in Human
Hair as Measured by Fourier Transform Infrared
Spectroscopy,” Forensic Science International, 50, 1991, 61-65.

Kingery, W.D., P.B. Vandiver and T. Noy. “An
8,500-Year-Old Sculpted Plaster Head from Jericho
(Israel),” Materials Research Society, or MRS Bulletin 17(1):
Jan 1992, 46-52.

Klein, Elyse, Jia-Sun Tsang and Mary T. Baker.
“Non-Instrumental Techniques for the Characterization and
Identification of Artists Acrylic Paints,” Polymer Preprints,
vol. 33, no. 2, papers presented at the 204th American
Chemical Society Annual Meeting, Washington, DC,
August, 1992, 650-651.

Lange, Eric B., Mary T. Baker, and Ed McManus.
“Implications of Cold Storage on the Nation’s Collection of
Space Suits,” Polymer Preprints, vol. 33, no. 2, papers
presented at the 204th American Chemical Society Annual
Meeting, Washington, DC, August, 1992, 639-640.

Lauffenburger, Julie A., Carol A. Grissom, and A. Elena
Charola. “Changes in Gloss of Marble Surfaces as a Result
of Methylcellulose Poulticing,” Studies in Conservation 37 (3)
1992, 155-164.

McCormick-Goodhart, Mark. “An Analysis of Image
Deterioration in Wet-Plate Negatives from the Mathew
Brady Studios,” Journal of Imaging Science and Technology,
Vol. 36, No. 3,1992, 297-305.

. “Ovonic Film,” Micrographic Film Technology, 4th Ed.,
edited by Sandra Kashdan, Association for Information and
Image Management, Silver Spring, MD, 1992.

Mecklenburg, M.F. “Some Mechanical and Physical Properties
of Gilding Gesso,” Gilded Wood Conservation and History, D.
Bigelow, E. Cornu, G.J. Landrey, and C. van Horne, Eds.,
Sound View Press, Madison Conn., 1991, 163-170.

Murray, A., R.E. Green, M.F. Mecklenburg, and C.M.
Fortunko. “NDE Applied to the Conservation of Wooden
Panel Paintings,” Nondestructive Characterization of Materials
IV, C.O. Ruud et al., Eds., Plenum Press, New York, 1991,
73-80.

Myers, J. Emlen, FE de Amores Carredano, J. S. Olin, and A.
Pleguezuelo Hernandez. “Compositional Identification of
Seville Majolica at Overseas Sites,” Historical Archaeology 26
I, 1992, 131-146.

Olin, J.S. and J. E. Myers. “Old and New World Spanish
Majolica Technology,” MRS Bulletin XVII (1), 1992, 32-38.

Rothman, M.J. and M.J. Blackman. “Monitoring Administrative
Spheres of Action in Late Prehistoric Northern Mesopotamia
with the Aid of Chemical Characterization INAA, of Sealing
Clays,” Economry and Settlement in the Near East: Analysis of
Ancient Sites and Materials, Supplement to vol. 7, 1990, edited
by N.E Miller, Philadelphia: MASCA Research Papers in
Science and Archaeology, University of Penn., 1992, 19-45.

Sayre, E.V., K.A. Yener, E.C. Joel, and I.L. Barnes. “Statistical
Analysis of the Presently Accumulated Lead Isotope Data
from the Near East,” Archaeometry 34 1, 1992, 73-105.

Schnabel, Lorraine. “Evaluation of the Barium
Hydroxide-urea Consolidation Method,” Proceedings of the
7th International Congress on Deterioration and Conservation of
Stone, Lisbon, Portugal, 1992, 1063-1072.

Strahan, Donna. “Naturally Deposited Versus Intentionally
Applied Gypsum on Archaeological Materials from Harappa,
Pakistan,” Journal of Field Archaeology 18 (4), 1991, 527-530.

Sugarman, J. and T.J. Vitale. “Observations on the Drying of
Paper: Part 1, Examination and Application of Drying
Methodologies to Treatment,” Journal of the American
Institute for Conservation, 1992, 175-197.

Tsang, Jia-sun, and David Erhardt. “Current Research on the
Effects of Solvents and Gelled and Aqueous Cleaning
Systems on Oil Paint Films,” Journal of the American Institute
for Conservation, vol. 31, 1992, 87-94.

Tumosa, C. S$. and Melanie E. Feather. “An Analytical
Investigation into the Metallic Composition of the
Polushka Struck from 1730-1754,” Journal of the Russian
Numismatic Society, no. 45, 1992, 14-20.

van der Reyden, Dianne, Christa Hofmann, and M. Baker.
“Comparison and Evaluation of Bleaching Procedures: The
Effect of Five Bleaching Methods on the Optical and
Mechanical Properties of New and Aged Cotton Linter
Paper, Before and After Accelerated Aging,” AIC BPG
Annual, vol. 10, 1991, 109-127.

, Terry Schaeffer, and M. Baker. “Effect of Aging on an

Aqueously Light Bleached, Mixed Pulp Paper,” AIC BPG

Annual, vol. 10, 1991, 205-215.

, and D. Williams. “A Load to Bear: Papier-Maché

Furniture, Its Conservation and Care,” Antiques Show Magazine,

Richmond Academy of Medicine, 1992, vol. 10, 29-34.

. “Recent Scientific Research in Paper Conservation,”
Journal of the American Institute for Conservation, vol. 31, 1992,
17-138.

Vandiver, P.B. “Corrosion and Conservation of Ancient Glass
and Ceramics,” Corrosion of Glass, Ceramics and Ceramic
Superconductors, edited by D.E. Clark and B.K. Zoitos,
Noyes Publications, Park Ridge, NJ, 1992, 393-430.

. “The Most Ancient Tradition of Japanese Ceramics,”

Proc. of the International Symposium on Fine Ceramics: From

Traditional to New Creative Ceramics, 1991, Arita, Saga

Prefecture, Japan, 75-92.

. “Preliminary Study of the Technology of Selected Seto

and Mino Ceramics,” L.A. Cort, Sao and Mino Ceramics, Freer

Gallery of Art and University of Hawaii Press, 1992, 219-229.

. “Technical Studies of Ancient Chinese Ceramics,”
New Perspectives on the Art of Ceramics in China, edited by
George Kuwayama, Los Angeles County Museum of Art
and University of Hawaii Press, 1992, 116-140.

. “The Technology of Korean Celadons,” Y. Mino, The

Radiance of Jade and the Clarity of Water: Korean Ceramics from

the Ataka Collection, Art Institute of Chicago, 151-158.

and J. Druzik. “Art and Technology,” MRS Bulletin

17(1) Jan 1992, 14-15.

, W.A. Ellingson, T.K. Robinson, J.J. Lobick, and
FH. Sequin. “New Applications of X-Radiographic
Imaging Technologies for Archaeological Ceramics,”
Archeomaterials 5(2): (Summer 1991), 185-207.

Van Zelst, Lambertus, Worthy N. Martin, Carl F. Huber,
Veletta Canouts, and Ronald L. Bishop. “Interactive Design
Analysis: System Overview,” Proceedings of the 12th
International Symposium on the Conservation and
Restoration of Cultural Property: Analysis and Examination
of an Art Object by Imaging Techniques, Tokyo, Tokyo
National Research Institute of Cultural Properties, 1991,
163-188.

Von Endt, D.W. “The Organic Materials of Natural History
Museums,” Conservation Care Training Program - Natural
History Collections Curriculum. National Institute for
Conservation: Washington.D.C., 1992, 58.

, and M.T. Baker. “The Deterioration of Gesso in
Water Gilding, "Gilded Wood Conservation and History," D.
Bigelow, E. Cornu, G.J. Landrey, and C. van Horne, Eds.,
Sound View Press, Madison, Conn., 1991, 1.

Yener, Aslihan K. and Martha Goodway. “Reply to Hall and
Steadman,” Journal of Mediterranean Studies 5 (1) (1992)
77-9.

, E.V. Sayre, E.C. Joel, H. Ozbal, I.L. Barnes, R.H.

Brill, “Stable Lead Isotope Studies of Central Taurus Ore

Sources and Related Artifacts from Eastern Mediterranean

Chalcolithic and Bronze Age Sites,” Journal of Archaeological

Science 18 (5), 1991, §41-577-

National Zoological Park

Department of Zoological Research

Ballou, J. 1992. Potential contribution of cryopreserved germ
plasm to the preservation of genetic diversity and
conservation of endangered species in captivity. Cryobiology,
29:19-25.

Beck B., D.G. Kleiman, J.M. Dietz, I. Castro, C. Carvalho, A.
Martins, and B. Rettberg-Beck. 1992. Losses and
reproduction in reintroduced golden lion tamarins,
Leontopithecus rosalia. Dodo, 27:50-61.

Bernard, J.B., O.T. Oftedal, Barboza, P.S.,C.E. Mathias, M.E.
Allen, S.B. Citino, D.E. Ullrey, and R.J. Montali. 1991. The
response of Vitamin D deficient green iguanas (Iguana

gI
iguana) to artificial ultraviolet light. Proceedings of the
American Association of Zoo Veterinarians Annual Meeting 1991,
1991:147-150

Boness, D.J., O.T. Oftedal, and K.A. Ono. 1991. The effect of El
Nino on pup development in the California sea lion (Zalopus
californicanus). 1. Early postnatal growth. pp. 173-179, Pinnipeds
and El! Nino: Responses to Environmental Stress, (Trillmich, F. and
K.A. Ono, eds.). Springer Verlag, New York.

de Leeuw, A.M., W.E. Rall, J.H.G. den Daas and Th. A.M.
Kruip 1991. Comparative studies of the efficacy of rapid
cryopreservation methods for bovine embryos. Proceedings of
the 7th Scientific Meeting of the European Embryo Transfer
Association, pp. 77-86. Cambridge, U.K.

Derrickson, K.C. and R. Breitwisch. 1992. Northern
mockingbird. The birds of North America, Number 7, (A.
Poole, P. Stettenheim, and F. Gill, eds.). The Academy of
Natural Sciences and the American Ornithologists Union,
Philadelphia.

and I.G. Warkentin. 1991. The role of egg-capping in
the evolution of eggshell removal. Condor, 93:757-759

Francis, J.M. and D.J. Boness. 1991. The effect of
thermoregulatory behavior on the mating system of the
Juan Fernandez fur seal, Arctocephalus philipit. Behaviour,
119:104-126

and C.B. Heath. 1991. The effects of El Nino on the

frequency and sex ratio of suckling yearlings in the

California sea lion. pp. 195-201. Pinniped: «nd El Nino:

Responses to Environmental Stress, (F. Trillmich and K.A. Ono,

eds.). Springer Verlag, New York.

and C.B. Heath. 1991. Population abundance, pup

mortality, and copulation frequency in the California sea
lion in relation to the 1983 El Nino on San Nicolas Island.
Pp. 119-128. Pinnipeds and El Nino: Responses to Environmental
Stress, (F. Trillmich and K.A. Ono, eds.). Springer Verlag,
New York.

Heath, C.B., K.A. Ono, D.J. Boness, and J.M. Francis. 1991.
The influence of El Nino on female attendance patterns in
the California sea lion. pp. 138-145. Pinnipeds and El Nino:
Resbonses to Environmental Stress, (F. Trillmich and K.A. Ono,
eds.). Springer Verlag, New York.

Heyner, S. and W.F. Rall 1992. Assisted reproductive
technology: I” vitro fertilization and cryopreservation of
human gametes and embryos. Frontiers in Reproductive
Physiology. (D. Ghost and J. Sengupta, eds.), Wiley Eastern,
New Delhi, pp. 217-224.

, O.T. Oftedal, and D.J. Boness. 1991. The effects of El
Nino on pup development in the California sea lion. 2.
Milk and energy intake. pp. 180-184. Pinnipeds and El Nino:
Responses to Environmental Stress, (Trillmich.F and K.A. Ono,
eds.). Springer Verlag, New York.

Jung, R. 1992. Effects of human activities and lake
characteristics on the behavior and breeding success of

common loons. Passenger Pigeon, 53:207-218.
. 1992. Individual variation in fruit choice by
American robins (Turdus migratorius). The Auk, 109:98-U1.

92

. 1992. Rare hybrid caught at Adventure Banding
Station. Audubon Naturalist News, 18:21.

Kleiman, D. 1992. Bamboo bears. Zoogoer, 21:6-12.

Lowry, M.S., B.S. Stewart, C.B. Heath, P.K. Yochem, and J.M.
Francis. 1991. Seasonal and annual variability in the diet of
California sea lions, Zalophus californianus, at San Nicolas
Island, California, 1981-1986. Fishery Bulletin, 89:331-336.

Morton, E.S. and J. Page. 1992. Animal talk: Science and the
voices of nature. Random House, New York, New York.

Oftedal, O.T. 1991. Nutritional consequences of foraging in
primates: The relationship of nutrient intakes to nutrient
requirements. Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society of
London, Series B: Biological Sciences, 334:161-170.

. 1992. The nutritional consequences of foraging in

primates: The relationship of nutrient intakes to nutrient

requirements. pp. 1-10. Foraging Strategies and Natural Diets

of Monkeys, Apes and Humans, (A. Whiten and E.M.

Widdowson, eds.). Oxford University Press, Oxford.

, W.D. Bowen, E.M. Widdowson, and D.J. Boness.
1991. The prenatal molt and its ecological significance in
hooded and harbor seals. Canadian Journal of Zoology,
69(9):2489-2493.

Rall, W.F. 1991. Guidelines for establishing animal genetic

resource banks: Biological materials, management and
facility considerations. Proceedings of the Wild Cattle
Symposium, (D.L. Armstrong and T.S. Gross, eds.), Henry
Doorly Zoo, Omaha, Nebraska, pp. 96-106.

. 1991. Prospects for the cryopreservation of
mammalian spermatozoa by vitrification. Reproduction in
Domestic Animals, Supplement 1, Proceedings of the 2nd
International Conference on Boar Semen Cryopreservation, (L.A.
Johnson & D. Rath, eds.), Paul Parey Scientific Publishers,
Berlin, pp. 65-80.

. 1992. Cryopreservation of oocytes and embryos: Methods
and applications. Animal Reproduction Science. 28: 237-245.

, J.-D. Ballou and D.E. Wildt 1991. Cryopreservation
and banking of animal germ plasm for species conservation:

An imperative for action by the Captive Breeding Specialist
Group. Proceedings of the Annual Meeting of the Captive
Breeding Specialist Group, 'UCN, Singapore, pp. 1-13.

Ralls, K., D.B. Siniff, A. Doroff, and A. Mercure. 1992.
Movements of sea otters relocated along the California
coast. Marine Mammal Science, 8:178-184.

Roberts, M. 1992. The fire cat. Zoogoer, 21:13-18.

Rosenberger, A. 1992. Evolution of feeding niches in New
World monkeys. American Journal of Physical Anthropology,
88:525-562.

and M. Dagasto. 1992. New craniodental and
postcranial evidence of fossil tarsiiforms. pp. 37-52. Topics in
Primatology, (S. Matano, R.H. Tuttle, H. Ishida, and M.
Goodward, eds.). University of Tokyo Press, Tokyo.

Ruiz-Miranda, C.R. 1992. Effects of the presence of the
mother on responses of domestic goat kids to novel

inanimate objects and humans. Applied Animal Behavior,
32:277-285.
Siniff, D. and K. Ralls. 1992. Reproduction, survival and tag
lass in California sea otters. Marine Mammal Science,
7:211-229

Spector, D.A. 1992. An odd bird among the gulls. Bird News
of Western Massachusetts, 32:2.

. 1992. Wood-warbler song systems: A review of
paruline singing behavior. Current Ornithology, 9:199-238.

Thompson, K. 1991. Flehmen and social dominance in captive
female sable antelope, Hippotragus niger. Applied Animal
Behaviour Science, 29:121-133.

. 1992. Reproductive competition, birth synchrony
and behavioral development in sable antelope, Hippotragus
niger. Ph.D., University of Maryland. 218 pp.

Trillmich, F, K.A. Ono, D.P. Costa, R.L. DeLong, S.D.
Feldkamp, J.M. Francis, R.L. Gentry, C.B. Heath, B.J.
LeBoeuf, P. Majluf, and A.E. York. 1991. The effects of El
Nino on pinniped populations in the Eastern Pacific. pp.
247-270. Pinnipeds and El Nino: Responses to Environmental
Stress, (E. Trillmich and K.A. Ono, eds.). Springer Verlag,
New York.

Wagner, R.H. 1992. Extra-pair copulations in a lek: The
secondary mating system of monogamous razorbills.
Behavioral Ecology and Sociobiology, 31: 63-71.

. 1992. The pursuit of extra-pair copulations by

monogamous female razorbills: How do females benefit?
Behavioral Ecology and Sociobiology, 29:455-464.

Warkentin, I., P.C. James, and L.W. Oliphant. 1992.
Assortative mating in early breeding merlins. Condor,
94:418-426.

Wood, T.C., D.E. Wildt L.A. Johnston, A.M. Donoghue and
W.F. Rall 1991. Osmometric behavior of domestic cat
embryos in solutions of sucrose and permeating
cryoprotectants. Cryobiology 28:572 (Abstract).

Department of Animal Health

Andrews, J.C., J.G. Howard, B.D. Bavister and D.E. Wildt.
1992. Sperm capacitation in domestic cat (Felis catus) and
leopard cat (Felis bengalensis) as studied with a salt-stored
zona pellucida assay. Molucular Reproduction Development.
31:200-207.

Byers, A.P., T.L. Roth and D.E. Wildt. 1992. Oocyte nuclear
maturation is poorly related to cumulus mass expansion
and is independent of in vitro fertilization potential in the
domestic cat. Proceedings: Society for the Study of
Reproduction, Biological Reproduction, Supplemental 1, 46:117.

Cooper, K.A., M. Bush, S.J. O’Brien, R.A. Stolk and D.E.
Wildt. 1992. New opportunities in animal health sciences
(NOAHS): Biotechnology for conservation. Proceedings of the
6th World Conference on the Breeding of Endangered Species, p. 50.

Donoghue, A.M., J.G. Howard, A.P. Byers, K.L. Goodrowe,
M. Bush, E. Blumer, J. Lukas, J. Stover, K. Snodgrass and
D.E. Wildt. 1992. Correlation of sperm viability with
gamete interaction and fertilization im vitro in the cheetah
(Acinonyx jubatus). Biological of Reproduction. 46:1047-1056.

, L.A. Johnston, U.S. Seal, D.L. Armstrong, L.G.
Simmons, T. Gross, R.T. Tilson, P. Wolff and D.E. Wildt.
1992. Ability of thawed tiger (Panthera tigris) spermatozoa
to fertilize conspecific oocytes and bind and penetrate
domestic cat oocytes in vitro. Journal of Andrology,
Supplement, p 34.

, L.A. Johnston, L. Munson, J.L. Brown and D.E.
Wilde. 1992. Influence of gonadotropin treatment interval

on follicular maturation, in vitro fertilization, circulating
steroid concentrations and subsequent luteal function in
the domestic cat. Biology of Reproduction, 46:972-980.

Howard, J.G. 1992. Feline semen analysis and artificial
semination. Current Veterinary Therapy XI, R.W. Kirk, ed.,
W.B. Sanders Co., Philadelphia, pp. 929-938.

, M.W. Barone, A.M. Donoghue and D.E. Wildt.

1992. The effect of preovulatory anaesthesia on ovulation in

laparoscopically inseminated domestic cats. Journal of

Reproduction and Fertility. 96:175-186.

, A.M. Donoghue, L.A. Johnston and D.E. Wildt.
1992. Selective filtration of structurally-abnormal
spermatozoa by the zona pellucida and reduced fertilization
in teratospermiac cats. Journal of Andrology, p. 137.

Roth, T.L., A.M. Donoghue, A.P. Byers, L. Munson and D.E.
Wildt. 1992. Gamete co-culture on oviductal cell
monolayers supports i” vitro fertilization but does not
overcome the partial morula-to-blastocyst development
block in the domestic cat. Proceedings of the Society for the
Study of Reproduction, Biological Reproduction, Supplement 1,
46:167.

Schmidt, P.M., V.M. Hollifield, X. Lin and D.E. Wildt. 1992.
Induced ovulation and adequate embryo recovery in New
Zealand white rabbits treated with a low PMSG/hCG dose
or single, daily injections of FSH-P. Theriogenology, 37:293.

Wasser, S.K., R.I. Thomas, P.P. Nair, S.L. Monfort and D.E.
Wildt. 1992. Effect of diet on fecal steroid measurements.
Proceedings: nt International Symposium of Faecal Steroid
Monitoring in Zoo Animals, pp. 10-15.

Wildc, D.E. 1991. Fertilization in cats. A Comparative Overview
of Mammalian Fertilization, B.S. Dunbar and M. O’Rand,
eds., Plenum, New York, pp. 299-328.

. 1992. Genetic resource banking for conserving

wildlife species: Justification, examples and becoming
organized on a global basis. Journal of Animal Reproduction
Society, 28:247-257.

, A.M. Donoghue, L.A. Johnston, P.M. Schmidt and
J.G. Howard. 1992. Species and genetic effects on the
utility of biotechnology for conservation. Symposium of the
Zoological Society of London. 64:45-61.

, S.L. Monfort, A.M. Donoghue, L.A. Johnston and
J.G. Howard. 1992. Embryogenesis in conservation

biology—or how to make an endangered species embryo.
Theriogenology, 37:161-184.

93
Department of Conservation

Derrickson, S.R., and N.ER. Snyder. 1992. Potentials and
limits of captive breeding in parrot conservation. New
World Parrots in Crisis: Solutions from Conservation Biology. S.
R. Beissinger and N. F. R. Snyder, eds., 133-163.
Washington, D.C. Smithsonian Institution Press.

Dinerstein, E. 1992. Effects of Rhinoceros unicornis on riverine
forest structure in lowland Nepal. Ecology, 73 (2): 701-704.

Holzenbein, S., and R.L. Marchinton. 1992. Spatial
integration of maturing male white-tailed deer into the
adult population. Journal of Mammalogy, 73 (2):326-334.

McShea, W.J., and A.B. Gilles. 1992. A comparison of traps
and fluorescent powder to describe foraging for mast by
Peromyscus leucopus. Journal of Mammalogy, 73 (1):218-222.

and D.M. Madison. 1992. Appendix 2. Alternative
approaches to the study of small mammal dispersal:
insights from radiotelemetry. Animal Dispersal: Small
Mammals as a Model. J.N.C. Stenseth and W.Z. Lidicker,
317-332. Chapman & Hall, New York.

Montali, R.J., D.K. Nichols, M. Bush, $.R. Derrickson, and
C. Pickett. 1992. Control of avian tuberculosis in zoological
parks: a perspective. Verhardlungsbericht des Internationalen
Symposiums iiber die Erkrankungen der Zoo und Wildtiere ,
34:71-76.

Stiitwe, M., K.T. Scribner, and P.U. Alkon. 1992. A comparison
of genetic diversity in Nubian ibex (Capra ibex nubiana) and
Alpine ibex (Capra 1. ibex). Zeitschrift filer Sdugetierkunde,
§7:120-123.

Swanson, D.A., and J.H. Rappole. 1992. Status of the white-
winged dove in southern Texas. The Southwestern Naturalist,

37 (1):93-97.

Department of Animal Health

Bernard J.B., O.T. Oftedal, P.S. Barboza, C.E. Mathias, M.E.
Allen, S.B. Citino, D.E. Ullrey, and R.J. Montali. 1991. The
response of Vitamin D-deficient green Iguanas (Iguana
iguana) to attificial ultraviolet light. Proceedings of the
American Association of Zoo Veterinarians, pp. 147-150.

Brown, J.L., D.E. Wildt, J.R. Raath, V. de Vos, J.G. Howard,
D.L. Janssen, $.B. Citino, and M. Bush. 1991. Impact of
season on seminal characteristics and endocrine status of
adult free-ranging African buffalo (Syncerus caffer). Journal of
Reproduction and Fertility, 92(1):47-57.-

, D.E. Wilde, J.R. Raath, V. de Vos, D.L. Janssen, S.B.

Citino, J.G. Howard, and M. Bush. 1991. Seasonal variation

in pituitary-gonadal function in free-ranging impala

(Aepyceros melampus), Journal of Reproduction and Fertility,

93:497-505.

, 8.B. Citino, M. Bush, A.K. Bunbak, and LG.

Phillips. 1991. Cyclic patterns of luteinizing hormone,

follicle-stimulating hormone, inhibin, estradiol, and

progesterone secretion in the Asian elephant (E/ephus
maximus). Journal of Zoo and Wildlife Medicine, 22(1):49-57.

94

Brunnert, S.R., G.T. Hensley, $.B. Citino, A.J. Herron, and
N.H. Altman. 1991. Salivary gland oncocytes in African
hedgehogs (Atelerix albiventris) mimicking cytomegalic
inclusion disease. Journal of Veterinary Pathology, 105:83-90.

Citino $.B. 1992. Water Quality and Marine Aquarium,
Current Veterinary Therapy XI : Small Animal Practice, pp.
1199-1201. Kirk, W.K. and J.D. Bonagua, eds. W.B. Sanders
Co., Philadelphia.

and A. de Lahunta. 1991. Clinical Challenge:
Intracerebral hemorrhage. Journal of Zoo and Wildlife
Medicine, 22(3), 373-375.

Bonagura, J.D., H. Lambert, S.B. Citino, I. Collaza, and R.S.
Jeyendran. 1991. Penetration of zona-free hamster oocytes
by ejaculated cryopreserved gorilla spermatozoa. Fertility
and Sterility, 56(6), 1201-1203.

Montali, R.J. and S.B. Citino. 1991. Pathological Findings in
Captive Rhinoceroses, Proceedings of the International Rhino
Conference, San Diego, California, May.

Papas, A.M., R.C. Cambre, S.B. Citino, and R.J. Sokol. 1991.
Efficacy of Absorption of various vitamin E forms by
captive elephants and black rhinoceroses. Journal of Zoo and
Wildlife Medicine, 22(3), 309-317.

Schiewe, M.C., M. Bush, L.G. Phillips, $.B. Citino, and D.E.
Wildt. 1991. Comparative aspects of estrous
synchronization, ovulation induction, and embryo
cryopreservation in the scimitar-horned oryx, bongo, eland,
and greater kudu. Journal of Experimental Zoology, 258 : 75-88.

Tell, L.A. and S.B. Citino. 1992. Hematologic and serum
chemistry reference intervals for Cuban Amazon parrots
(Amazona leucoephala leucocephala). Journal of Zoo and
Wildlife Medicine, 23(1), 62-64.

Shulman, FY., R.J. Montali, and S.B. Citino. 1991.
Proventricular nematodiasis: A potentially lethal infection
in zoo birds. Proceedings of the American Association of Zoo
Veterinarians, pp. 252-254.

Department of Pathology

Montali, R.J. 1991. Selected Viral Diseases of Non-domestic
Carnivores. Proceedings of the Sixth Annual Veterinary Medical
Forum, American College of Veterinary Internal Medicine,
pp. 231-233.

, D. Nichols, and J. Price. 1991. Methods for Detection

and Diagnosis of Avian Tuberculosis: Some Considerations

for the Future. American Association of Zoological Parks and

Aquariums Annual Conference Proceedings 1991, San Diego,

Cal. Sept. 15-19, pp. 485-491.

, D.K. Nichols, M. Bush, $.R. Derrickson, and C.
Pickett. 1992. Control of avian tuberculosis in zoological
parks: a perspective. 34° Symposium on the Diseases of Zoo and
Wild Animals, pp. 71-76. Santander, Spain.

Munson, L. and R.J. Montali. 1991. High Prevalence of
Ovarian Tumors in Maned Wolves (Chrysocyon brachyurus) at
the National Zoological Park. Journal of Zoo and Wildlife
Medicine, 22(1):125-129.

Stephensen, C.B., Jacob, J.R., Montali, R.J., Holmes, K.V.,
Muchmore, E., Compans, R.W., Arms, E.D., Buchmeier,
M.J. and Lanford, R.E. 1991. Isolation of an Arenavirus
from a marmoset with Callitrichicd Hepatitis and its
serologic association with Disease. Journal of Virology, 65(8),
PP- 3995-4000.

Office of Environmental Awareness

Gradwohl, J. 1991. National Forum on Ocean Conservation
Summary. Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D.C. 124
pages.

Gradwohl, J. and R. Greenberg. 1991. Small forest reserves:
Making the best of a bad situation. Climatic Change 19:253-256.

Sullivan, T. and J. Gradwohl. 1990. Environmental Activities
at the Smithsonian Institution. Smithsonian Institution,
Washington, D.C. 80 pages.

Smithsonian Environmental
Research Center

Choi, Joong Ki, D. Wayne Coats, David C. Brownlee, and
Eugene B. Small. Morphology and Infraciliature of Three
Species of Extintinnus (Ciliophora; Tintinnina) with
Guidelines for Interpreting Protargol-Stained Tintinnine
Ciliates. Journal of Protozoology 39(1992): 80-92.

Coats, D. Wayne. Collection and Cultivation of Histophagous
Ciliates, in Protocols in Protozoology, edited by, J. E. Lee and
A. T. Soldo. Lawrence: Allen Press, 1992, A53-1-A53.2.

Correll, David L. “Human Impact on the Functioning of
Landscape Boundaries” in Ecotones—The Role of Landscape
Boundaries in the Management and Restoration of Changing
Environments, edited by M. M. Holland, P. G. Risser, and R.
J. Naiman. New York, Chapman and Hall, 1991.

Correll, David L., Carl O. Clark, Bernard Goldberg, Vernon R.
Goodrich, Douglass R. Hayes. Jr., William H. Klein, and
William D. Schecher. Spectral Ultraviolet-B Radiation Fluxes
at the Earth’s Surface: Long-Term Variations at 39°N,77°W.
Journal of Geophysical Research 97(1992): 7579-7591.

Dolan, John R. and Charles L. Gallegos. Trophic Coupling of
Rotifers, Microflagellates, and Bacteria During Fall Months
in the Rhode River Estuary. Marine Ecology Progress Series
77(1991): 147-156.

Drake, Bert G. The Impact of Rising CO, on Ecosystem
Productions. Water, Air, and Soil Pollution 64(1992): 25-44.

Drake, Bert G. and Paul W. Leadley. Canopy Photosynthesis
of Crops and Native Plant Communities Exposed to
Long-Term Elevated CO,. Plant, Cell and Environment
14(1991): 853-860.

Gallegos, Charles L. Phytoplankton Photosynthesis,
Productivity, and Species Composition in a Eutrophic
Estuary: Comparison of Bloom and Non-Bloom
Assemblages. Marine Ecology Progress Series 81(1992): 257-267.

Gallegos, Charles L., Thomas E. Jordan, and David L. Correll.
Event-Scale Response of Phytoplankton to Watershed
Inputs in a Subestuary: Timing, Magnitude and Location of
Blooms. Limnology and Oceanography 37(1992): 813-828.

Jordan, Thomas E., David L. Correll, Joseph Miklas, and
Donald E. Weller. Long-Term Trends in Estuarine
Nutrients and Chlorophyll, and Short-Term Effects of
Variation in Watershed Discharge. Marine Ecology Progress
Sertes 75(1991): 121-132.

Long, Stephen P. and Bert G. Drake. Photosynthetic CO,
Assimilation and Rising Atmospheric CO, Concentrations,
in Topics in Photosynthesis, Volume 11, edited by N. R. Baker
and H. Thomas. Amsterdam: Elsevier Science Publishers,
1992, 69-103.

Posey, Martin H. and Anson H. Hines. Complex
Predator-Prey Interactions within an Estuarine Benthic
Community. Ecology 72(1991): 2155-2169

Ruiz, Gregory M. Consequences of Parasitism to Marine
Invertebrates: Host Evolution? American Zoology 31(1991):
831-839.

Smith, L. David. The Impact of Limb Autotomy on Mate
Competition in Blue Crabs Callinectes sapidus Rathbun.
Oecologia 89(1992): 494-501.

Smucker, Richard A. and Chi K. Kim. Chitanase Activity in
Estuarine Waters, in Microbial Enzymes in Aquatic
Environments, edited by Ryszard J. Chrost. New York:
Springer-Verlag, 1991, 249-269.

Smucker, Richard A. Chitin Primary Production. Biochemical
Systematics and Ecology 11991): 357-369.

Snow, Allison A. and Timothy P. Spica. Pollen Vigour and the
Potential for Sexual Selection in Plants. Nature 352(1991):
796-797.

Vaithiyanathan, Panchabi and David L. Correll. The Rhode
River Watershed: Phosphorus Distribution and Export in
Forest and Agricultural Soils. Journal of Environmental
Quality 21(1992): 280-288.

Whigham, Dennis F. and John O'Neill. The Dynamics of
Flowering and Fruit Production in Two Eastern North
American Terrestrial Orchids, Tipularia discolor and Liparis
lilifolia, in Population Ecology of Terrestrial Orchids, edited by
T. C. E. Wells and J. H. Willems. The Hague, The
Netherlands: SPB Academic Publishing, 1991, 89-101.

Whigham, Dennis F. and Robert L. Simpson. Annual
Variation in Biomass and Production of a Tidal Freshwater
Wetland and Comparison with Other Wetland Systems.
Virginia Journal of Science 43(1992): 5-14.

Whigham, Dennis FE, Ingrid Olmsted, Edgar Cabrera Cano
and Mark E. Harmon. The Impact of Hurricane Gilbert on
Trees, Litterfall, and Woody Debris in a Dry Tropical
Forest in the Northeastern Yucatan Peninsula. Biotropica
23(1991): 434-441.

95
Smithsonian Institution Archives

Bain, Alan L., editor. “Museum Archives Information Survey,
1991: Official Records, Personal Papers, and Special
Collections.” July, 1991.

. “The Muses’ Memory.” Museum News 70

(November/December 1991):36-39.

, et al. Recommended Practice for the Requirements and
Characteristics of Documents Intended for Optical Scanning,
ANSI/AIIM MS52-1991 (Silver Spring, Maryland:
Association for Information and Image Management),
December 17, 1991.

Henson, Pamela M. and Marc E. Epstein. “Digging for Dyar:
The Man Behind the Myth.” American Entomologist 38 (Fall
1992):141-163.

, and Terri A. Schorzman. “Videohistory: Focusing on
the American Past.” Oral History Association Newsletter 25
(Winter 1992):3-5 and 26 (Spring 1992):8.

Vogt-O'Connor, Diane L. “Conservation and Archival
Description: The Smithsonian Institution Archives and
Photographic Survey Project.” The Proceedings of the Imperfect
Image, Photographs, Their Past, Present, and Future. London:
The Centre for Photographic Conservation, 1992.

. “Ethics and Archivists: Special Report on the Results

of a Questionnaire Surveying the Profession's Opinion on

Decertification.” Smithsonian Institution Archives for the
Society of American Archivists Ethics Committee, 1992.

Smithsonian Institution Libraries

Susan Gurney and Marca Woodhams, “Historical research at
the Smithsonian's Horticulture Services Division,” The
Public Garden VII (No. 2, Apr. 1992):22-23.

Nancy E. Gwinn, “The Fragility of Paper: Can our Historical
Record Be Saved?”, The Public Historian, XIII (no. 3):33-53.

Kay A. Kenyon, Recommended List of Books and Other Information
Resources for Zoo and Aquarium Libraries 2nd ed. (Washington,
D. C.: Smithsonian Institution Libraries, 1991).

Charles S. Martin, “Preparing a 3-Dimensional Skeletal
Reconstruction of a Specimen of the Triassic Theropod
Coelophysis Bauri”, Journal of Vertebrate Paleontology, No. u (3)
Sept. 1991. Abstracts, 45A.

Nancy L. Matthews. Review. Law and Government under the
Tudors. Essays Presented to Sir Geoffrey Elton, Regius Professor of
Modern History in the University of Cambridge on the Occasion of
his Retirement by C. Cross, D. Loades, and J. J. Scarisbrick,
eds, in American Journal of Legal History XXXVI
(1992):210-212.

Sheila M. Riley. Review. And the Desert Shall Blossom by
Phyllis Barber in Library Journal 116 (16):139 (October 1,
1991).

96

. Review. Finding Balance: Fitness and Training for a
Lifetime in Dance by Gigi Berardi in Library Journal 16
(15):76 (September 15, 1991)

. Review. Hearts of Glass by Nicole Jeffords in Library

Journal 117 (8):116 (May 1, 1992).

. Review. Martha Graham: The Evolution of Her Dance.

Theory and Training 19261991 by Marian Horosko in Library

Journal 116 (21):148 (December 1991).

. Review. Patchwork by Karen Osborn in Library

Journal 116 (8):109 (May 1, 1991).

. Review. Small Victories by Sallie Bingham in Library

Journal 117 (5):123 (March 15, 1992).

. Review. The Weight of Winter by Cathie Pelletier in
Library Journal 116 (18):133 (November 1, 1991).

Ruth Schallert. Review. An Oak Spring Sylva, A Selection of Rare
Books on Trees in the Oak Spring Garden by S. Raphael in
Archives of Natural History XVIII (Part 3, 1991):409-410.

Smithsonian Institution Libraries, The Books of the Fairs.
Materials about World's Fairs, 1834-1916, in the Smithsonian
Institution Libraries, with an introductory essay by Robert
W. Rydell. Compiled by SIL staff. Chicago: American
Library Association, 1992.

{Smithsonian Institution Libraries], Catalog of the Library of the
National Museum of African Art Branch of the Smithsonian
Institution Libraries, 2 vols. Boston: G. K. Hall & Co., 1991.

{Smithsonian Institution Libraries], Smithsonian on Disc.
Catalog of the Smithsonian Institution Libraries on CD-ROM,
Boston: G. K. Hall & Co., 1992. CD-ROM.

Smithsonian Institution Libraries, “World's Fairs”. Exhibition
brochure, 1992.

Stephen H. Van Dyk. Review. Decorative Arts and Household
Furnishing in America 1650-1920. An Annotated Bibliography
by K. L. Ames and G. W. R. Ward, eds, in Newsletter of the
Decoratoive Arts Society, Inc. I (no. 2, 1992):7-8.

Ellen B. Wells and Renata Rutledge with John Hyltoft, Book
Collecting and the Care of Books, rev. ed., Washington, D. C.:
Smithsonian Institution Libraries, rev. edn. 1992.

. “Classics of Equine Veterinary Medicine”, National
Sporting Library Newsletter, No. 33 (Dec. 1991):[4 pp.].

Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute

Adams, Eldridge S. “Nest-Mate Recognition Based on
Heritable Odors in the Termite Mécrocerotermes arboreus.”
Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences 88: 2031-2034
(1991).

Adler, Gregory and Seamon, Joshua. “Distribution and
Abundance of a Tropical Rodent, the Spiny Rat, on Islands
in Panama.” Journal of Tropical Ecology 7: 349-360 (1991).

Ahumada, Jorge A. “Grooming Behavior of Spider Monkeys
(Ateles geoffroyi) on Barro Colorado Island.” International
Journal of Primatology 13(1): 33-49 (1991).
Aide, T. Mitchell. “Synchronous Leaf Production and Herbivory
in Juveniles of Gustavia superba.” Oxcologia 88(4): 511-514 (1991).
Aiello, Annette. “Adelpha ixia leucas: immature stages and
position within Adelpha (Nymphalidae).” Journal of the
Lepidopterists’ Society 45(3): 181-187 (1991).
. “Bug Busters: Poison-Free Pest Controls for Your House
and Garden, by Bernice Lifton.” (Book review). Library
Journal W161): 0 (1991).
. “Bugs, Slugs and Other Thugs: Controlling Garden Pest
Organically, by Rhonda Massingham Hart.” (Book review).
Library Journal 116(12): 127-128 (1991).
. “Common Sense Pest Control, by William Olkowski
and others.” (Book review). Library Journal 116(8): 97 (1991).
. “Dry Season Strategies of Two Panamanian Butterfly
Species, A nartia fatuma (Nymohalinae).” In: Insects of Panama
and Mesoamerica: Selected Studies: 573-575, edited by D. Quintero
and Annette Aiello. Oxford: Oxford University Press (1992).
. “Nocturnal Butterflies in Panama, Hedylidae
(Lepidoptera: Rhopalocera).” In: Insects of Panama and
Mesoamerica: Selected Studies: 549-553, edited by D. Quintero

and Annette Aiello. Oxford: Oxford University Press (1992).

. “Sarapiqui Chronicle: a Naturalist in Costa Rica, by
Allen M. Young.” (Book review). Library Journal u6(110):
186 (1991).

. “Saving Seeds: The Gardener's Guide to Growing and
Storing Vegetable and Flower Seeds, by Marc Rogers” (Book
Review). Library Journal 116(1): 132 (1991).

Allen, Gerald R. and Robertson, D. Ross. “Quatre espéces
nouvelles d’Opisthognathidae (Jawfishes) du Pacifique
oriental tropical.” Reeue Francais A quariologie 18: 47-52
(1991).

. “Description of Two New Genera and Four New
Species of Triplefins (Pisces: Tripterygiidae) from the
Tropical Eastern Pacific.” Revue Francais Aquariologie 18(3):
79-82 (1991).

Anderson, Alun. “The Smithsonian's Tropical Niche.” Nature
349(6311): 647-648 (1991).

Andrews, Robin M. “Population Stability of a Tropical
Lizard.” Ecology 72(4): 1204-1217 (1991).

Arosemena, Fernando A. and Ibdfiez D., Roberto.
“Geographic distribution: Hyla angustilineata.” SSAR Herp.
Review 22(4): 133 (1991).

Arosemena, Fernando A., Iba4fiez D., Roberto and Sousa,
Francisca de. “Una Especie Nueva de Anolis (Squamata:
Iguanidae) del Grupo /atifrons de Fortuna, Panamé.” Revista
de Biologia Tropical 39{2): 255-262 (1991).

Augspurger, Carol K. “Spatial Patterns of Damping-Off
Disease During Seedling Recruitment in Tropical Forests.”
In: Pests, Pathogens and Plant Communities: 131-144, edited by
J.J. Burdon and S.R. Leather. Oxford: Blackwell Scientific
Publications (1990).

Baur, Bernhard, Dietz, Karl-Josef and Winter, Klaus. “Partial
Purification and Characterization of Phosphoenolpyruvate
carboxylase kinase from Mesembryanthemum crystallinum.”
Plant Physiology Suppl. 99: 880. (1992).

Bermingham, Eldridge. “Mitochondrial and the Analysis of
Fish Population Structure.” In: Eletrophoretic and Isoelectric
Focusing Techniques in Fisheries Management: 197-221, edited
by D. Whitmore. Boca Raton: CRC Press (1990).

Bermingham, Eldridge, Forbes, $.H., Friedland, K. and Pla,
C. “Discrimination Between Atlantic Salmon (Salmo salar)
of North American and European Origin Using Restriction
Analyses of Mitochondrial DNA.” Canadian Journal of
Fisheries and Aquatic Sciences 48(5): 884-893 (1991).

Bowell, Thelma E. and Mitchell, Betsy J. “Comparison of
Seed Dispersal by Guenons in Kenya and Capuchins in
Panama.” Journal of Tropical Ecology 7(2): 269-274 (1991).

Brawn, Jeffrey D. “Environmental Effects on Variation and
Covariation in Reproductive Traits of Western Bluebirds.”
Oecologia 96: 193-201 (1991).

Brindle, Alan and Quintero Arias, Diomedes. “Earwigs of
Panama (Dermaptera).” In: Insects of Panama and
Mesoamerica: Selected Studies: 198-207, edited by D. Quintero
and Annette Aiello. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
(1992).

Bush, Mark B. and Whittaker, R.J. “A Revision of Estimates
of Bird Colonization on Krakatau.” Journal of Biogeography
18(5): 585 (1991).

Camargo, Joao and Roubik, David. “Systematics and
bionomics of the apoid obligate necrophages: the Trigona
Aypogea group (Hymenoptera: Apidae; Meliponinae).”
Biological Journal of the Linnean Society 44: 13-39 (1991).

Cambra T., Roberto and Quintero Arias, Diomedes. “Velvet Ants
of Panama: Distribution and Systematics (Hymenoptera:
Mutillidae).” In: Insects of Panama and Mesoamerica: Selected
Studies: 459-478, edited by D. Quintero and Annette Aiello.
Oxford: Oxford University Press. (1992).

Carlson, D.A., Roubik, David W. and Milstrey, K.
“Distinctive Hydrocarbons Among Giant Honey Bees, the
Apis dorsata group (Hymenoptera: Apidae).” Apidologie 22:
169-181 (1991).

Castro, Gonzalo, Myers, J.P. and Ricklefs, R.E. “Ecology and
Energetics of Sanderlings Migrating to Four Latitudes.”
Ecology 73(3): 833-844. (1992).

Chen, Cheng-Ping, Lee Jr., Richard E. and Denlinger, David L.
“A Comparison of the Responses of Tropical and Temperate
Flies (Diptera: Sarcophagidae) to Cold and Heat Stress.”
Journal of Comparative Physiology B 160: 543-547 (1991).

Choe, Jae C. “Zoraptera of Panama with a Review of the
Morphology, Systematics, and Biology of the Order.” In:
Insects of Panama and Mesoamerica: Selected Studies: 249-256,
edited by D. Quintero and Annette Aiello. Oxford: Oxford
University Press. (1992).

Choe, Jae C. and Kim, Ke Chung. “Microhabitat Selection
and Adaptation of feather Mites (Acari: Analgoidea) on
Murres and Kittiwakes.” Canadian Journal of Zoology 643):
817-821 (1991).

Christy, John H. and Salmon, Michael. “Comparative Studies
of Reproductive Behavior in Mantis Shrimps and Fiddler
Crabs.” American Zoologists 31: 329-337 (1991).

97
Coates, Anthony G., Jackson, Jeremy B.C., Collins, Laurel S.,
et al. “Closure of the Isthmus of Panama: The Near-Shore
Marine Record of Costa Rica and Western Panama.”
Geological Society of America Bulletin 104: 814-828. (1992).

Coffroth, Mary A. “Cyclical Mucous Sheet Formation on
Poritid Corals in the San Blas Islands, Panama.” Marine
Biology 109(1): 35-40 (1991).

Coley, Phyllis D. and Aide, T. Mitchell. “Comparison of
Herbivory and Plant Defenses in Temperate and Tropical
Broad-Leaved Forests.” In: Plant-Animal Interactions:
Evolutionary Ecology in Tropical and Temperate Regions: 25-49,
edited by P.W. Price, T.M. Lewinsohn, G.W. Fernandes and
W.W. Benson. New York: John Wiley and Sons (1991).

Colinvaux Paul A. “A Model for The Selective Advantage of
Intelligence to Breeding Females.” Evolutionary Theory 10:
15-32 (1991).

. “The World’s Genetic Libraries.” Nature 356:

625-626. (1992).

. “A Commentary on: Paleoecological Background-
Neotropics.” Climatic Change 11-2): 49-51 (1991).

Collins, Laurel S. “Regional versus Physiographic Effects on
Morphologic variability within Bulimina aculeata and B.

marginata.” Marine Micropaleontology 17: 155-170 (1991).

. “The Correspondence Between Water Temperature
and Coiling Direction in Bulimina.” Paleoceanography 5(3):
289-294 (1991).

Condit, Richard and Hubbell, Stephen P. “Abundance and
DNA Sequence of Two-Base Repeat Regions in Tropical
Tree Genomes.” Genome 34: 66-71 (1991).

Condit, Richard, Hubbell, Stephen P. and Foster, Robin B.
“Dynamics and Equilibrium Status of a Neotropical Forest
Over One Decade.” In: Annual Meeting of the Association for
Tropical Biology held at the AIBS, Annual Meeting of Scientific
Societies; San Antonio, Texas, USA, August 4-8, 1992 No
pagination (1991).

Cooke, Richard. “E] Periodo Precolombino.” In: Vision de la
Nacionalidad Panamena, Simpasio Celebrado el 6 de Julio de 1991 en
el Teatro “La Huaca” (ATLAPA), Panamd: 2-10. Panama:
Instituto Latinoamericano de Estudios Avanzados (1991).

. “Prehistoric Nearshore and Littoral Fishing in the
Eastern Tropical Pacific: An Ichthyological Evaluation.”
Journal of World Prehistory 6(1): 1-49. (1992).

Cooke, Richard C. and Ranere, Anthony. “The Origin of
Wealth and Hierarchy in the Central Region of Panama
(12,000-2,000 BP), with Observations on its Relevance to
the History and Phylogeny of Chibchan-Speaking Polities
in Panama and Elsewhere.” In: Wealth and Hierarchy in the
Intermediate Area: 243-316, edited by FW. Lange.
Washington D.C. Dumbarton Oaks.

Correa, Mireya D. “Bosques Tropicales: Nuestra Herencia
Biolégica.” Revista del IV Congreso Nacional y | Centroamérica Sur
de Prodsctores de Seguros, I, 12, 13 de Octubre de 1990: 41 (1991).

Craig, Catherine L. “Physical Constraints on Group Foraging
and Social Evolution: Observations on Web-Spinning
Spiders.” Functional Ecology 5(5): 649-654 (1991).

98

Craig, Catherine L. and Freeman, Corey R. “Effects of
Predator Visibility on Prey Encounter: A Case Study on
Aerial Web Weaving Spiders.” Behavioral Ecology and
Sociobiology 29(4): 249-254 (1991).

D'Croz, Luis. “Effects of Climatic Changes in the Coral Reefs
of the South-East Pacific.” In: Regional Seas, Unep Regional
Reports and Studies No. 134: 149-156 (1991).

D'Croz, Luis, Del Rosario, Juan B. and Gémez, Juan A.
“Upwelling and Phytoplankton in the Bay of Panama.”
Revista de Biologia Tropical 39(2): 233-241 (1991).

Davidson, Diane W., Foster, Robin B., Snelling, Roy R. and
Lozada, Pedro W. “Variable Composition of Some Tropical
Ant—Plant Symbioses.” In: Plant-Animal Interactions:
Evolutionary Ecology and Temperate Regions: 145-161. Edited by
P.W. Price, T.M. Lewinsohn, G.W. Fernandes and W.W.
Benson. New York: John Wiley (1991).

Davis, William James and Graham, Douglas J. “The Influence of
Food on Reproductive Strategies in a Monogamous Kingfisher
(Chloroceryle amazona).” The Auk 108(4): 780-789 (1991).

Denlinger, David L., Tanaka, Seiji, Downes, William L.,
Wolda, Henk and Guardia, Modesto. “Does Lack of
Diapause Result in Less Insect Seasonality?” Oecologia 87:
152-154 (1991).

DeVries, Philip J. “Call Production by Myrmecophilous
Riodinid and Lycaenid Butterfly Caterpillars (Lepidoptera):
Morphological, Acoustical, Functional, and Evolutionary
Patterns.” American Museum Novitates, No. 3025, Nov. 26:
I-23 (1991).

. “Evolutionary and Ecological Patterns in

Myrmecophilus Riodinid Butterflies.” In: Between Ants and

Plants: 143-156, edited by C. Huxley, and D. Cutler. Oxford

University Press (1991).

. “Mutualism Between Thisbe irenea Butterflies and
Ants, and the Role of Ant Ecology in the Evolution of
Larval-Ant Associations.” Biological Journal of the Linnean
Soctety 43: 179-195 (1991).

Dressler, Robert L. and Salazar, Gerardo A. “Viscarium, a
Term for the Glue-bearing Area of the Rostellum.” Orchid
Research Newsletter 17: U1-12 (1991).

Dudley, Robert. “Biomechanics of Flight in Neotropical
Butterflies: Aerodynamics and Mechanical Power
Requirements.” Journal of Experimental Biology 159: 335-357
(1991).

. “Comparative Biomechanics and Evolutionary

Diversification of Flying Insect Morphology.” In: The Unity

of Evolutionary Biology: Proceedings of the Fourth International

Congress on Systematic and Evolutionary Biology: 503-514,

edited by E. Dudley. Portland: Dioscorides Press (1991).

. “Thermoregulation in Unpalatable Danaine
Butterflies.” Functional Ecology 5: 503-506 (1991).

Dudley, Robert and Gans, C. “A Critique of Symmorphosis
and Optimality Models in Physiology.” Physiological Zoology
64: 627-637 (1991).

Dudley, Robert and Milton, Katharine. “Parasite Deterrence
and the Energetic Costs of Slapping in Howler Monkeys,

Alouatta palliata.” Journal of Mammatlogy 71(3): 463-465
(1991).

Dudley, Robert and Rand, Stanley. “Sound Production and
Vocal Sac Inflation in the Tangara Frog, Physalaemus
pustulosus (Leptodactylidae).” Copeia 2: 460-470 (1991).

Dudley, Robert and Vermeij, G.J. “Do the Power
Requirements of Flapping Flight Constrain Folivory in
Flying Animals?” Functional Ecology 6: 101-104 (1992).

Dudley, Robert, King V., Ann and Wassersug, Richard J.
“The Implications of Shape and Metamorphoses for Drag
Forces on a Generalized Pond Tadpole (Rana catesbeiana).”
Copeia 1991: 240-245 (1991).

Duke, Norman C. “A Systematic Revision of the Mangrove
Genus Avicennia (Avicenniaceae) in Australasia.” Australian
Systematic Biology 4: 299-324 (1991).

. “Nypa in the Mangroves of Central America:

Introduced or Relict?” Principes 35(3): 127-132 (1991).

. “Study of Mangrove Recovery—Panama.” Newsletter
of the International Society for Mangrove Ecosystems 3: 5
(1991).

Duke, Norman and Pinzén M., Zuleika S. “Mangrove
Forests.” In: Long-Term Assessment of the Oil Spill at Bahia
Las minas, Panama: Interim Report, Volume II: Technical
Report: 153-177, edited by B.D. Keller and J.B.C. Jackson.
New Orleans, OCS Study MMS 90-0031, U.S. Department
of the Interior, Minerals Management Service, Gulf of
Mexico OCS Regional Office (1991).

. “Aging Rhizophora Seedlings from Leaf Scar Nodes:
A Technique for Studying Recruitment and Growth in
Mangrove Forests.” Biotropica 24(2a): 173-186 (1992).

Dur4n L., Ovidio and Moreno H., Victor, E. “Determinaci6n
del Grado de Heterocigasidad Genética de las Abejas
Africanizadas (Hymenoptera: Apidae) en la Republica de
Panama. Thesis, Panama: Universidad de Panama (1991).

Eberhard, William G. “Artificial Insemination can
Appropriate Stimulation Improve Success Rates? Medical
Hypotheses 32): 152-154 (1991).

. “Chrosiothes tonala (Araneae, Theridiidae): A

Web-Building Spider Specializing on Termites.” Psyche 98:

7-19 (1991).

. “Copulatory Courtship and Cryptic Female Choice in

Insects.” Revista de Biologta Tropical 66: 1-31 (1991).

. “Insect Defenses.” (Book Review). Journal of Insect

Behavior 4: 410-411 (1991).

. “Notes on the Natural History of Wendilgarda
galapagensis (Araneae, Theridiosomatidae).” Bulletin of the
Bristish Arachnological Society 8: 246-248 (1991).

Eberhard, William G. and Gutiérrez, E. “Dimorphism Among
Males of Horned Beetles and Earwigs and the Question of
Developmental Constraints.” Evolution 45: 18-28 (1991).

Enstrom, David A. “Delayed Plumage Maturation in the
Orchard Oriole (Icerus spurius): Tests of Winter Adaptation

Hypotheses.” Behavioral Ecology and Sociobiology 30: 35-42 (1992).

Fernandez, Idalia and Zapata, Pedro. 1991. Nutricién de
Larvas de Mithrax spinosissimus (Lamarck) en Aguas

Panamenas del Caribe. Tesis, Facultad de Ciencias
Naturales y Exactas, Panama: Universidad de Panama.

Fincke, Ola M. “Behavioural Ecology of the Giant Damselflies
of Barro Colorado Island, Panama (Odonata: Zygoptera:
Pseudotigmatidae).” In: Insects of Panama and Mesoamerica:
Selected Studies: 102-103, edited by D. Quintero and Annette
Aiello. Oxford: Oxford University Press. (1992).

. “Consequences of Larval Ecology for Territoriality

and Reproductive Success of a Neotropical Damselfly.”

Ecology 73(2): 449-462 (1992).

. “Interspecific Competition for Tree Holes:
Consequences for Mating Systems and Coexistence in
Neotropical Damseflies.” The American Naturalist 139(1):
80-101 (1992).

Fisher, Brian, Howe, Henry F. and Wright, S. Joseph.
“Survival and Growth of Virola surinamensis Yearlings:
Water Augmentation in Gap and Understory.” Oecologia 86:
292-297 (1991).

Fisher, Eric M. and Hespenheide, Henry A. “Taxonomy and
Biology of Central American Robber Flies with an
Illustrated Key to Genera (Diptera: Asilidae).” In: Insects of
Panama and Mesoamerica: Selected Studies: 611-632, edited by
D. Quintero and Annette Aiello. Oxford: Oxford
University Press. (1992).

Forget, Pierre-Michel and Milleron, Tarek. “Evidence for
secondary seed dispersal by rodents in Panama.” Oecologia
87:596-599 (1991).

Foster, Robin B. “Long-Term Change in the Soccessional
Forest Community of the Rio Manu Floodplain Peru.” In:
Four Neotropical Rainforests; Meeting of the American Institute
of Biological Sciences, Columbus, Ohio, USAm August 10-12:
565-572 (conference paper) edited by A.H. Gentry (1991).

. “The Floristic Composition of the Rio Manu
Floodplain Forest.” In: Four Neotropical Rainforests; Meeting
of the American Institute of Biological Sciences, Columbus, Ohio,
USAm August 10-12: 99-111 (conference paper) edited by
A.H. Gentry (1991).

Franks, Nigel, Gémez, Nélida, Goss, S. and Deneubourg, J.L.
“The Blind Leading the Blind in Army Ant and Raid
Patterns: Testing a Model of Self-Organization (Hymenoptera:
Formicidae).” Journal of Insect Behaviour 4(5): 583-607 (1991).

Gardner, Alfred L., Handley Jr., Charles O. and Wilson, Don E.
“Survival and Relative Abundance.” In: Demography and
Natural History of the Common Fruit Bat, Artibeus jamaicensis,
on Barvo Colorado Island, Panamd: 53-75, edited by C.O.
Handley Jr., D.E. Wilson and A.L. Gardner. Washington
D.C.: Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology, No. 511 (1991).

Gibbs, James P. “Avian Nest Predation in Tropical Wet
Forest: An Experimental Study.” Osos 60(2): 155-161 (1991).

Glynn, Peter W. “Coral Bleaching in the 1980s and Possible
Connections with Global Warming.” Trends in Ecology and
Evolution (6): 175-179 (1991).

Glynn, Peter W. and De Weerdt, W.H. “Elimination of Two
Reef-Building Hydrocorals Following the 1982-83 El Nino
Warming Event.” Science 253(5015): 69-71 (1991).

99
Glynn, Peter W., Gassman, N.J., Eakin, C.M., Cortes, J.,
Smith, D.B. and Guzman, H.M. “Reef Coral Reproduction
in the Eastern Pacific: Costa Rica, Panama, and Galapagos
Islands (Ecuador).” Marine Biology 109(3): 355-368 (1991).

Goldstein, David L. and Smith, Neal G. “Response to
Kirkley.” Journal of Raptor Research 25(3): 87-88 (1991).

Gomez Z., Adalberto. Efectos Directos de Nematodos en
Avispas Polinizadoras de Ficus citrifolia y Efectos Indirectos
en sus Frutos. Tesis, Universidad de Panamé (1991).

Gonzalez, Eric E. and Harris, L. “A Preliminary Study on the
Polychaete Fauna on Some Beaches in Panama City,
Panama.” In: Third International Polychaete Conference Held at
California State University, Long Beach, California August
&11, 1989: 587 (Abstract) (1991).

Gupta, Mahabir P., Gémez, Nélida E., Santana, Ana I., Solis,
Pablo N. and Palacios, Graciela. “Actividad
Antimicrobiana de Algunas Algas de la Costa Atlantica
Panamefia.” Revista Médica de Panamd 16(1): 64-68 (1991).

Guzman, Héctor M. “Restoration of Coral Reefs in Pacific
Costa Rica.” Conservation Biology 5(2): 189-195 (1991).

Guzman, Héctor M. and Lépez, Juan Diego. “Diet of the
Corallivorous Pufferfish A rothron meleagris (Pisces:
Tetraodontidae) at Gorgona Island, Colombia.” Revista de
Biologia Tropical 3{2): 203-206 (1991).

Guzman, Héctor M., Jackson, Jeremy B.C. and Weil, Ernesto.
“Short-term Ecological Consequences of a Major Oil Spill on
Panamanian Subtidal Reef Corals.” Coral Reefs 10: 1-12 (1991).

Guzmin, Héctor, Robertson, D. Ross and Diaz, Marco L.
“Distribucién y Abundancia de Corales en el Arrecife del
Refugio de Isla Iguana, Pacifico de Panama.” Revista de
Biologia Tropical 34{2): 225-231 (1991).

Hamrick, James L. and Murawski, Darlyne A. “Levels of
Allozyme Diversity in Populations of Uncommon
Neotropical Tree Species.” Journal of Tropical Ecology 7(3):
395-399 (1991).

Hamrick, James L., Godt, M.J.W., Murawski, D.A. and
Loveless, M.D. “Correlations Between Species Traits and
Allozyme Diversity Implications for Conservation Biology.”
In: Genetics and Conservation of Rare Plants: 75-86, edited by
D.A. Falk and K.E. Holsinger. New York: Oxford
University Press (1991).

Handley, Jr., Charles O. and Leigh, Jr., Egbert G. “Diet and
Food Supply.” In: Demography and Natural History of the
Common Fruit Bat, Artibeus jamaicensis, on Barro Colorado
Island, Panamd: 147-149 (1991).

Handley, Jr., Charles O. and Morrison, Douglas W. “Foraging
Behavior.” In: Demography and Natural History of the Common
Fruit Bat, Artibeus jamaicensis, on Barro Colorado Island,
Panamd: 137-140 (1991).

Handley, Jr., Charles O., Gardner, Alfred L. and Wilson, Don
E. “Food Habits.” In: Demography and Natural History of the
Common Fruit Bat, Artibeus jamaicensis, on Barro Colorado
Island, Panamd: 141-146 (1991).

Handley Jr., Charles O., Wilson, Don E. and Gardner, Alfred
L. “Introduction.” In: Demography and Natural History of the

100

Common Fruit Bat, Artibeus jamaicensis, on Barro Colorado
Island, Panamd. Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology 511: 1-7
(1991).

. “Movements.” In: Demography and Natural History of
the Common Fruit Bat, Artibeus jamaicensis, on Barro
Colorado Island, Panamd: 89-130, edited by C.O. Handley
Jc., D.E. Wilson and A.L. Gardner. Washington D.C.:
Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology, No. 511 (1991).

. “Demography and Natural History of the Common
Fruit Bat, Artibeus jamaicensis, on Barro Colorado Island,

Panama. ” Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology 511: 1-7.
(Introduction).

Handley, Jr., Charles O., Wilson, Don E. and Gardner, Alfred
L. (editors) “Demography and Natural History of the
Common Fruit Bat, Artibeus jamaicensis, on Barro Colorado
Island, Panama.” Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology 51:
1-173 (1991).

Herbert, Thomas “Variation in Interception of the Direct Solar
Beam by Top Canopy Layers.” Ecology 72A1): 17-22. (1991).

Herrera, A. and Jackson, Jeremy B.C. “Environmental versus
Taxonomic Variation in lophophore Morphology of
Panamanian Cheilostome Byozoans.” Marine Biology 112(1):
99-106 (1992).

Herrera, Heraclio. Plantas Usadas en la Medicina Tradicional
en el Oeste de Kuna Yala (San Blas), Panama. Tesis,
Panama: Universidad de Panamé (1991).

Hewett, $.W., Welden, C.W., Hubbell, Stephen P. and Foster,
Robin B. “Canopy-Height Dynamics and the Size
Distribution of Canopy Openings on Barro Colorado
Island, Panama.” Bulletin of the Ecological Society of America
7uUSupp.2) 141 (1991).

Hogan, Kevin P., Smith, A.P. and Ziska, L.H. “Potential effects
of elevated CO, and changes in temperature on tropical
plants.” Plant, Cell and Environment 14: 763-778 (1991).

Hubbell, Stephen P. and Foster, Robin B. “Structure
Dynamics and Equilibrium Status of Old-Growth Forest on
Barro Colorado Island, Panama.” In: Four Neotropical
Rainforests; Meeting of the American Institute of Biological
Sciences, Columbus, Ohio, USAm August 10-12: 522-541
(conference paper) edited by A.H. Gentry (1991).

. “The Fate of Juvenile Trees in a Neotropical Forest
Implications for the Natural Maintenance of Tropical Tree
Diversity.” In: Reproductive Ecology of Tropical Forest Plants;
Meeting, Bangi, Malaysia, June 8-12, Man and the Biosphere
Series, Vol 7: 317-342 (1991).

Hubbell, Stephen P., Gullison R., Condit, Richard and Foster,
Robin B. “The Interaction of Mortality and Growth Rates
in Neotropical Trees.” Bulletin of the Ecological Society of
America 72(Suppl2): 146 (1991).

Ibdfiez D., Roberto, Jaramillo, César A., Solis, EA. and
Jaramillo, EE. “Geographic distribution: Hy/a
fimbrimembra. SSAR Herp. Review 22: 133-134 (1991).

Ibdfiez D., Roberto. Synchronized Calling in Centrolenella
granulosa and Smilisca sila (Amphibia, Anura). Ph.D.
Thesis, University of Connecticut (1991).

Ineich, Ivan and Zug, George R. “Nomenclatural Status of
Emoia cyanura (Lacertilia, Scincidae) Populations in the
Central Pacific.” Copeta 1991(1): 1132-1135 (1991).

Jackson, Jeremy B.C. “Adaptation and Diversity of Reef
Corals.” BioScience 41(7): 475-482 (1991).

Jackson, Jeremy B.C. and Cheetham, Alan H. “Bryozoan
Morphological and Genetic Correspondence: What Does
It Prove?” [Response to Jeffrey Levinton] Science 251:
318-319 (1991).

Jing, San W., Kursar, Thomas A. and Coley, Phyllis. “Leaf
Longevity and Phenolic Content in three Neotropical
Genera.” Supplement to American Journal of Botany (Abstracts)
78(6): Abstract 148 (1991).

Jop, K.M., Foster, Robin B. and Askew, A.M. “Factors
Affecting the Toxicity Identification Evaluation the Role of
Source Water Used in Industrial Processes.” In: Aquatic
Toxicology and Risk Assessment: Fourteenth Volume: 84-93,
edited by M. Mayes and M.G. Barron (1991).

Jop, K.M., Kendall, T.Z. Askew, A.M. and Foster, Robin B.
“Use of Gractionation Procedures and Extensive Chemical
analysis for Toxicity Identification of a Chemical Plant
Effluent.” Environmental Toxicology and Chemistry 10(8):
981-990 (1991).

Joyce, Christopher. “A Crane's Eye View of Tropical Forests.”
New Scientist, 21 September 1991: 40-42 (1991).

Jung, Iris and Klaus Winter. Mineral Nutrient Deficiency
Increases the Sensitivity of Photosynthesis to Sulphur
Dioxide in Needles of a Coniferous Tree Abies
nordmanniana. Oecologia 90: 70-73 (1992).

Karr, James R., Dionne, Michele and Schlosser, Isaac.
“Bottom-Up versus Top-Down Regulation of Vertebrate
Populations: Lessons from Birds and Fish.” In: Effects of
Resource Distribution of Animal-Plant Interactions: Chap. 9.
San Diego: Academic Press (1992).

Kato, Makoto, Roubik, David W. and Inoue, Tamiji.
“Foraging Behavior and Concentration Preference of Male
Euglossine Bees (Apidae: Hymenoptera).” Tropics 1(4):
259-264. (1992).

Keller, Brian D. and Jackson, Jeremy B.C. (eds.). Long-term
Assessment of the Oil Spill at Bahia Las Minas, Panama Interim
Report. Volume I: Executive Summary. New Orleans: U.S.
Department of the Interior, Minerals Management Service,
Gulf of Mexico OCS Regional Office. 48p (1991).

. Long-term assessment of the Oil Spill at Bahta Las Minas,
Panama Interim Report. Volume II: Technical Report. New Orleans:
U.S. Department of the Interior, Minerals Management
Service, Gulf of Mexico OCS Regional Office, 450p.

Keller, Michael, Mitre, Martin E. and Stallard, Robert F.
“Consumption of Atmospheric Methane in Soils of Central
Panama: Effects of Agricultural Development.” Global
Biogeochemical Cycles 4{1): 21-27 (1990).

Kimsey, Lynn Siri. “Biogeography of the Panamanian Region,
from an Insect Perspective.” In: Insects of Panama and
Mesoamerica: Selected Studies: 14-24, edited by D. Quintero

and Annette Aiello. Oxford: Oxford University Press (1992).

King, David A. “Correlations Between Biomass Allocation,
Relative Growth-Rate and Light Environment in Tropical
Forest Saplings.” Functional Ecology 5(4): 485-492 (1991).

. “The Adaptive Significance of Tree Height.” The

American Naturalist 135(6): 809-828 (1991).

. “Tree Allometry, Leaf Size and Adult Tree Size in

Old-Growth Forests of Western Oregon.” Tree Physiology 9:

369-381 (1991).

. “Tree Size.” National Geographic Research and
Exploration 7(3): 342-351 (1991).

Kirkpatrick, Mark and Ryan, Michael J. “The Evolution of
Mating Preferences and the Paradox of the Lek.” Nature
350{6313): 33-38 (1991).

Knowlton, Nancy, Weil, Ernesto, Weight, Lee, and Guzmén,
Hector. “Sibling Species in Montastraea annularis, Coral
Bleaching, and the Coral Climate Record.” Science 255:
330-333 (1992).

K@6niger, Martina and Winter, Klaus. “Carotenoid
Composition and Photon-Use Efficiency of Photosynthesis
in Gossypium hirsutum L. Grown Under Conditions of
Slightly Suboptimum Leaf Temperatures and High Levels
of Irradiance.” Oecologia 87: 349-356 (1991).

Kursar, Thomas A. and Coley, Phyllis D. “Nitrogen Content
and Expansion Rate of Young Leaves of Rain Forest Species:
Implications for Herbivory.” Biotropica 23(2): 141-150 (1991).

. “Photosynthetic Induction Times in Shade Tolerant
Species with Long and Short-Lived Leaves.” Supplement to
American Journal of Botany (Abstracts) 78(6): Abstract 154
(1992).

LaFrankie, James V. “Portraits of the Rain Forest.” (Books
review). Ecology 72(4): 1522-1524 (1991).

LaFrankie, Jr., James V. and Chan, H.T. “Confirmation of
Sequential Flowering in Shorea (Dipterocarpaceae).”
Biotropica 23(2): 200-203 (1991).

Landrum, Leslie R. “Chamguava: A New Genus of Myrtaceae
(Myctinae) from Mesoamerica.” Systematic Botany 16(1):
21-29 (1991).

Lasker, H.R. and Coffroth, Mary A. “Population Dynamics
and Genetic Population Structure of a Gorgonian Coral: Do
Multiyear Studies Characterize Longer Time Scale
Dynamics?” American Society of Zoologists 31(5): Abstract 248
(1991).

Lavin, Matt, Mathews, Sarah and Hughes, Colin. “Chloroplast
DNA Variation in Gliricidia sepium (Leguminosae):
Intraspecific Phylogeny and Tokogeny.” American Journal of
Botany 78(1): 1576-1585 (1990).

Lees, David C. and Smith, Neal G. “Foodplant Associations of
the Uraniinae (Uraniidae) and their Systematic,
Evolutionary, and Ecological Significance.” Journal of the
Lepidopterists’ Society 45(4): 296-347 (1991).

Leigh, Jr., Egbert Giles. “Genes, Bees and Ecosystems: the
Evolution of a Common Interest among Individuals.”
Trends in Ecology and Evolution (8): 257-262 (1991).

. “Tree Shape and Leaf Arrangement: a Quantitative

Comparison of Montane Forests, with Emphasis on

IOI
Malaysia and South India.” In: Conservation in Developing
Countries: Problems and Prospects. Proceedings of the Centenary
Seminar of the Bombay Natural History Society: 119-174.
Bombay: Oxford University Press (1990).

Leigh, Jr., Egbert G. and Handley, Jr., Charles O. “Population
Estimates.” In: Demography and Natural History of the
Common Fruit Bat, Artibeus jamaicensis, on Barro Colorado
Island, Panamd: 77-87, edited by C.O. Handley Jr., D.E.
Wilson and A.L. Gardner. Washington D.C.: Smithsonian
Contributions to Zoology, No. 511 (1991).

Leén-Gonzalez, Jestis Angel de. “Dos Serptlidos Nuevos para
el Pacifico Mexicano y Duplicidad Opercular en Hydroides
crucigerus (Polychaeta: Serpilidae).” Revista de Biologia
Tropical 38(2A): 335-338 (1990).

Lessios, Harilaos A. “Presence and Absence of Monthly
Reproductive Rhythms among Eight Caribbean Echinoids
off the Coast of Panama.” Journal of Experimental Biology and
Ecology 153: 27-47 (1991).

. “Testing Electrophoretic Data for Agreement with

Hardy-Weinberg Expectations.” Marine Biology 12:
517-523 (1992).

Linares, Olga F. Power, Prayer and Production: The Jola of
Casamance, Senegal. Cambridge: Cambridge Studies in
Social and Cultural Antropology (1991).

. “Transformations in African Marriage, by D. Parkin
and D. Nyamwaya, eds.” (Book Review). African Studies
Review 34(2): 156-158 (1991).

Losos, Jonathan B. The Evolution of Form and Function:
Morphology and Locomotor Performance in West indian
Anolis ." Evolution 44(5): 1189-1203 (1990).

Losos, Jonathan B., Andrews, Robin M., Sexton, Owen J. and
Schuler, Alexis L. “Behavior, Ecology, and Locomotor
Performance of the Giant Anole, Anolis frenatus.” Caribbean
Journal of Science 27(3-4): 173-179 (1991).

Loye, Jenella E. “Ecological Diversity and Host Plant
Relationships of Treehoppers in a Lowland Tropical
Rainforest (Homoptera: Membracidae and Nicomiidae)."In:
Insects of Panama and Mesoamerica: Selected Studies: 280-289,
edited by D. Quintero and Annette Aiello. Oxford: Oxford
University Press (1992).

Lubin, Yael D. “Patterns of Variation in Female-Biased
Colony Sex Ratios in a Social Spider.” Biological Journal of
the Linnean Society 43(4): 297-311 (1991).

Manasse, Robin S. “Seed Size and Habitat Effects on the
Water-Dispersed Perennial Crinum erubescens
(Amaryllidaceae).” American Jornal of Botany 77(October):
1336-1341 (1991).

Manasse, Robin S. and Pinney, Katherine Pinney. “Limits to
Reproductive Success in a Partially self-Incompatible Herb:
Fecundity Depression at Serial Life-Cycle Stages.” Evolution
45(3): 712-720 (1991).

Manasse, Robin S. and Stanton, Maureen L. “The Influence
of the Mating System on Seed Size Variation in Crinum
erubescens (Amaryllidaceae).” Evolution 45(4): 883-890
(1991).

102

Marino, Paul C. and Salazar Allen, Noris. “The Influence of
Light Gaps and Degree of Exposure on the Species
composition of epiphyllous Bryophytes Growing on Two
Species of Understory Shrub in a Lowland Tropical Moist
Forest in Panama.” Supplement to American Journal of Botany
(Abstracts) 78(6): Abstract 19 (1991).

McClearn, Deedra. “Locomotion, Posture, and Feeding
Behavior of Kinkajous, Coatis, and Racoons.” Journal of
Mammalogy 73(2): 245-261 (1992).

. “The Rise and Fall of a Mutualism? Coatis, Tapirs,
and Ticks on Barro Colorado Island, Panama.” Biotropica
24(2A): 220-222 (1992).

Mielke, Wolfgang. “A New Species of Psammotopa (Copepoda)
from the Pacific Coast of Panama.” Crustaceana 5X1): 69-75
(1990).

. “Zausodes septimus Lang, 1965 und Enhydrosoma
pericoense nov. spec., zwei benthische RuderfuBkrebse
(Crustacea, Copepoda) aus dem Eulitoral von Panama.”
Microfauna Marine 6: 139-156 (1990).

Milton, Katharine. “Leaf Change and Fruit Production in Six
Neotropical Maraceae Species.” Journal of Ecology 79: 1026
(1991).

. “Pectic Substances in Neotropical Plant Parts.”
Biotropica 23(1): 90-92 (1991).

Molofsky, J. and Augspurger, Carol K. “The Effect of Leaf
Litter on Early Seedling Establishment in a Tropical
Forest.” Ecology 73(1): 68-77 (1992).

Monge-Néfjera, Julian. “Clicking Butterflies, Hamadryas, of
Panama: Their Biology and Identification (Lepidoptera:
Nympjalidae).” In: Insects of Panama and Mesoamerica:
Selected Studies: 567-572, edited by D. Quintero and Annette
Aiello. Oxford: Oxford University Press (1992).

Monge Najera, Julian and Herndndez, F. “A Morphological
Search for the Sound Mechanism of Hamadryas Butterflies.”
Journal of Research on the Lepidoptera (1991).

Morrison, Douglas W. and Handley, Jr., Charles O. “Roosting
Behavior.” In: Demography and Natural History of the Common
Fruit Bat, Artibeus jamaicensis, on Barro Colorado Island,
Panamd: 131-135, edited by C.O. Handley Jr., D.E. Wilson
and A.L. Gardner. Washington D.C.: Smithsonian
Contributions to Zoology, No. 511 (1991).

Motta, Jorge. “Centro de Investigaciones y Conferencias Earl
Silas Tupper.” Revista Médica de Panamd 17(2): 150-151.

Moynihan, Martin H. “Structures in Animal
Communication.” In: Man and Beast Revisited: 193-202,
edited by Michael H. Robinson and Lionel Tiger.
Washington: Smithsonian Institution Press. (199).

Mulkey, Stephen S., Smith, Alan P. and Wright, S. Joseph.
“Comparative Life History and Physiology of Two
Understory Neotropical Herbs.” Oecologia 88: 263-273 (1991).

Mulkey, Stephen S., Wright, S. Joseph and Smith, Alan P.
“Drought Acclimation of an Understory Shrub

(Psychotria limonensis; Rubiaceae) in a Seasonality Dry
Tropical Forest in Panama.” American Journal of Botany
78(4): 579-587 (1991).
Murawski, Darlene A. and Hamrick, James L. “The Effect of
the Density of Flowering Individuals on the Mating
Systems of Nine Tropical Tree Species.” Heredity 67(2):
167-174 (1991).

Myers, Charles W. and Donnelly, Maureen A. “The Lizard
Genus Sphenomorphus (Scincidae) in Panama, with
Descriptions of a New Species.” American Museum Novitates
3027: I-12 (1991).

Nelson, C.R., Jorgensen, C.D., Black, H.L. and Whiting, J.
“Maintenance of Foraging Trails by the Giant Tropical and
Paraponera clavata (Insecta: Formicidae: Ponerinae).” Insectes
Soctaux 38(3): 221-228 (1991).

Petersen, Christopher W. “Sex Allocation in Hermaphroditic
Sea Basses.” American Naturalist 138(3): 650-667 (1991).

Piperno, Dolores. “The Status of Phytolith Analysis in the

American Tropics.” Journal of Wold Prehistory 5(2): 155-191 (1991).

Piperno, Dolores R., Bush, Mark B. and Colinvaux, Paul A.
“Paleoecological Perspectives on Human Adaptation in
Central Panama. I. The Pleistocene.” Geoarchaeology 6:
201-226 (1991).

. “Paleoecological Perspectives on Human Adaptation
in Central Panama. II The Holocene.” Geoarchaeology 1991 6:
227-250 (1991).

Poinar, Jr., George O. and Herre, Edward A. “Speciation and
Adaptive Radiation in the Fig Wasp Nematode,
Parasitodiplogaster (Diplogasteridae: Rhabditida) in
Panama.” Revue Nématologie 14(3): 361-374 (1991).

Quintero Diomedes and Aiello, Annette (Editors). Insects of
Panama and Mesoamerica: Selected Studies. Oxford: Oxford
University Press (1992).

Ranere, Anthony J. and Cooke, Richard G. “Paleoindian
Occupation in the Central American Tropics.” In: Clovis:
Origins and Adaptations: 237-253, edited by Robson
Bonnichsen and Karen L. Turnmire. Corvallis, Oregon:
Center for the Study of the First Americans (1991).

Rider, D.A. “Rhysscephala, New Genus, with the Description
of three New Species (Heteroptera: Pentatomidae).” Journal
of the New York Entomological Society 99(4): 583-610 (1991).

Robbins, Robert K. “Cost and Evolution of a Facultative
Mutualism Between Ants and Lycaenid Larvae
(Lepidoptera).” Oskos 62(3): 363-369 (1991).

Robertson, Alistar I. and Duke, Norman C. “Recruitment,
Growth and Residence Time of Fishes in a Tropical
Australian mangrove System.” Estuarine, Coastal and Shelf
Science 31: 723-743 (1990).

Robertson, D. Rass. “Increases in Surgeonfish Populations
after Mass Mortality of the Sea Urchin Diadema antillarum
in Panama Indicate Food Limitation.” Marine Biology 1:
437-444 (1991).

. “The Role of Adult Biology in the Timing of
Spawning of Tropical Reef Fishes.” In: The Ecology of Fishes
on Coral Reefs: 356-386, edited by P.F. Sale. New York:
Academic Press (1991).

Robinson, Michael H. “A Mecca for Tropical Biologists.” The
World and I: March 1991: 299-307 (1991).

Rodaniche, Arcadio F. “Notes on the Behavior of the Larger
Pacific Striped Octopus, An Undescribed Species of the
Genus Octopus.” Bulletin of Marine Science 49(1-2): 667 (1991).

Rostal, David C., Williams, Jo Anne and Weldon, Paul J.
“Rathke’s Gland Secretion by Loggerhead (Caretta caretta)
and Kemp's Ridley (Lepidochelys kempi) Sea Turtles.” Copeia
1991(4): 1129-1132 (1991).

Roubik, David W. “Aspects of Africanized Honey Bee
Ecology in Tropical America.” In: The “African” Honey Bee:
259-281, edited by M. Spivak, D.J.C. Fletcher and M.D.
Breed. Boulder: Westview (1991).

. “Loose Niches in Tropical Communities: Why Are

There So Few Bees and So Many Trees?” In: Effects of

Resource Distribution of Animal-Plant Interactions: Chap. 1.

San Diego: Academic Press (1992).

. “Stingless Bees: A Guide to Panamanian and

Mesoamerican Species and their Nests (Hymenoptera:
Apidae: Meliponinae).” In: Insects of Panama and
Mesoamerica: Selected Studies: 495-524, edited by D. Quintero
and Annette Aiello. Oxford: Oxford University Press (1992).

Roubik, David W. and Moreno P., Jorge Enrique. Pollen and
Spores of Barro Colorado Island. Missouri Botanical Gardens:
Monographs in Systematic Botany (1991).

Roubik, David, Villanueva, Rogel, Cabrera, Edgar Francisco
and Colli Ucdn, Wilberto. “Abejas Nativas de la Reserva de
la Biésfera de Sian Ka’an, Quintana Roo, Mexico.” In:
Diversidad Bioldgica en la Reserva de la Bidsfera de Sian Ka’an,
Quintana Roo, México: 317-320, edited by L. Navarro and
John G. Robinson (1991).

Rowell, Thelma E. and Mitchel, Betsy J. “Comparison of seed
dispersal by guenons in Kenya and capuchins in Panama.”
Journal of Tropical Ecology 7: 269-274 (1991).

Ryan, Michael J. “Sexual selection and communication in
frogs.” Trends in Ecology and Evolution 6(11): 351-354 (1991).

. “Sexual Selection, Sensory Systems and Sensory
Exploitation.” In: Oxford Surveys in Evolutionary Biology:
157-195 (1990).

Salazar Allen, Noris, Arrocha, Clotilde and Chung,
Clementina. “The Mosses of Barro Colorado Island,
Panama.” The Bryologist 94(3): 289-293 (1991).

. “A Preliminary Treatment of the Central American

Species of Octoblepharum (Musci: Calymperaceae).” Tropical

Bryology 4: 85-97 (1991).

. “A Revision of the Neotropical Species of

Octoblepharum (Musci: Leucobryaceae).” Supplement to

American Journal of Botany (Abstracts) 78(6): Abstract 24

(1991).

. “Editorial.” Briolatina 24: 1-2 (1991).

. “Los estudios de briéfitas en bosques tropicales y sus

aplicaciones en la educaci6n ambiental” (Abstract). Primer

Congreso Nacional de Ecologia. Simposium Internacional de
Ecologia Amazonica, 3-8 de Noviembre de 199 100 (1991).

. “Resumen.” In: III Simposio Latinoamericano de
Briologia: Briologia en el Neotrépico. Instituto de Biologia
UNAM and Sociedad Latinoamericana de Briologia (1992).

103
Sanjur Fonseca, Oris Imperio. Estudio del Cariotipo de Cuatro
Especies de Peces Pomacéntridos (Pomacentridae, Pisces)
del Pacifico de Panamé y Algunas Consideraciones
Evolutivas. Tesis, Universidad de Panama (1991).

Sarmiento Echeverria, Ludmila Enit and Rodriguez, Gonzalo
Tapia. Andlisis Cuantitativo e Identificacién de la
Poblacién de Diatomeas y Algas verdeazules en Estanques
de Cria del Camarén Penaeus vannamet. Tesis, Panama:
Universidad de Panama (1990).

Saw, L.G., LaFrankie, James V., Kochummen, K.M. and Yap,
S.K. “Fruit Trees in a Malaysian Rain Forest.” Economic
Botany 45(1): 120-136 (1991).

Schultz, William G. “Cientificos Estudian el Ecosistema de los
Bosques Nebulosos.” La Prensa, 1 de julio de 1991: 14b (1991).

. “Una mariposa contra el SIDA.” Conozca Mas 2(8):
38-39 (1991).

Schupp, Eugene W. and Feener, Jr., D.H. “Phylogeny,
lifeform, and habitat dependence of ant-defended plants in

a Panamanian forest.” In: Ant-Plant Interactions: 175-197 and
250-259. Oxford: Oxford University Press (1991).

Schwartz, Joshua J. “Why Stop Calling? A Study of Unison
bout Singing in a Neotropical Treefrog.” Animal Behaviour
42: 565-577 (1991).

Schwartz, Joshua J. and Rand, A. Stanley. “The Consequences
for Communication of Call Overlap in the Tungara Frog, a
Neotropical Anuran with a Frequency-Modulated Call.”
Ethology 89: 73-83 (1991).

Siddiqui, FA., McLaughlin, P.A. and Crain, J.A. “Larval
Development of Clibanarius antillensis Stimpson, 1859
(Crustacea: Anomura: Diogenidae) Reared Under
Laboratory Conditions: A Comparison Between
Panamanian and Brazilian Populations.” Journal of Natural
History 25(4): 917-932 (1991).

Smith, Neal G. “Arctic gulls 32 years later: a reply to Snell.”
Colonial Waterbirds 14(2): 190-195 (1991).

. “Reproductive Behaviour and Ecology of Urania
(Lepidoptera: Uraniidae) Moths and of their Larval Food
Plants, Omphalea spp. (Euphorbiaceae).” In: Insects of
Panama and Mesoamerica: Selected Studies: 576-593, edited by
D. Quintero and Annette Aiello. Oxford: Oxford
University Press (1992).

Smith, Neal G. and Fleischer, R. “Giant Cowbird Eggs in the
Nests of Two Icterid Hosts: Discrimination of Species and
Individuals with Protein Electrophoresis Markers and Egg
Morphometrics.” Condor 94: 572-578 (1992).

Smythe, Nicholas. “Steps Toward Domesticating the Paca
(Agouti = Cuniculus paca) and Prospects for the Future.” In:
Neotropical Wildlife Use and Conservation: 202-216, edited by
John G. Robinson and Kent H. Redford. Chicago: The
University of Chicago Press (1991).

Solis, EA., Ibafiez D., Roberto and Tejera, Victor H. “Geographic
distribution: Clelia scytalina. SSAR Herp. Review 22: 135 (1991).

Soong, Keryea. “Sexual Reproductive Patterns of
Shallow-Water Reef Corals in Panama.” Bulletin of Marine
Science 49{3): 832-846 (1991).

104

Spdrle, Jorg, Becker, Hans, Salazar Allen, Noris and Gupta,
Mahabir P. “Lipophilic Constituents from the Panamanian
Liverwort Monoclea gottschei Subsp. Neotropica.” Journal of
Hattori Botanical Laboratories 70: 151-155 (1991).

. “Spiroterpenoids from Plagiochila moritziana.”

Phytochemistry 30(9): 3043-3047 (1991).

. “Occurrence of (—)-Geosmin and Other Terpenoids in

an Axenic Culture of the Liverwort Symphyogyna

brongniartit.” Zeitschrift fur Naturforschung 46: 183-188 (1991).

. “Spiroterpenoids from Plagiochila moritziana.”
Phytochemistry 30(9): 3043-3047 (1991).

Stern, David. “Male Territoriality and Alternative Male
Behaviors in the Euglossine Bee, Ex/aema meriana
(Hymenoptera: Apidae).” Journal of the Kansas Entomological
Soctety 64(4): 421-437 (1992).

Stern, D.L. and Dudley, Robert. “Wing Buzzing by Male
Orchid Bees, Ex/aema meriana (Hymenoptera: Apidae).
Journal of the Kansas Entomological Society 64: 88-94 (1991).

Stewart, Margaret M. and Rand, A. Stanley. “Vocalizations
and the Defense of Retreat Sites by Male and Female Frogs,
Eleutherodactylus cogui.” Copeia 1991(4): 1013-1024 (1991).

Studier, Eugene H. and Wilson, Don E. “Physiology.” In:
Demography and Natural History of the Common Fruit Bat,
Artibeus jamaicensis on Barro Colorado Island, Panamd: 9-17,
edited by C.O. Handley Jr., D.E. Wilson and A.L. Gardner.
Washington D.C.: Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology.
No. 511 (1991).

Taft, Lucinda Keast and Handley Jr., Charles O.
“Reproduction in a Captive Colony.” In: Demography and
Natural History of the Common Fruit Bat, Artibeus
jamaicensis, on Barro Colorado Island, Panamd: 19-41, edited
by C.O. Handley Jr., D.E. Wilson and A.L. Gardner.
Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology, No. 511 (1991).

Terborgh, J., Foster, Robin B. and Robinson, S.K. “Recovery
of Biodiversity After Natural Disturbance in a Peruvian
White-Water Meander Belt.” In: Annual Meeting of the
Association for Tropical Biology held at the AIBS Annual
Meeting of Scientific Societies; San Antonio, Texas. USA, August
4-8 No pagination (1991).

Thompson, F. Christian. “The Flower Fly Genus Ornidia
(Diptera: Syrphidae).” Proceedings of the Entomological Society
of Washington 93(2): 248-261 (1991).

Thompson, James D., Herre, E. A., Hamrick, J.L. and Stone,
J.L. “Genetic Mosaics in Strangler Fig Trees: Lmplications
for Tropical Conservation.” Science 254(Nov 22): 1214-1216
(1991).

Tracy, C.R. and George, T.L. “On the Determinants of
Extinction.” American Naturalist 139(1): 102-122 (1992).

Tyree, Melvin T., Snyderman, Wilmot, Timothy R. and
Machado, José Luis. “Water Relations and Hydraulic
Architecture of a Tropical Tree (Schefflera morototoni)." Plant
Physiology 96: 1105-1113 (1991).

Ventocilla, Jorge. Anmar Napguana Mimmigana (Nosotros, Los
Hijos de la Madre Tierra). Panama: Imprenta Educativa
(1991).

Ventocilla, Jorge. Caceria y Subsistencia en Cangandi, una
Comunidad de los Indigenas Kunas. Tesis, Universidad
Nacional de Casta Rica (1991).

Ventocilla, Jorge. “Por Qué son los Machos los que Cortejan a
las Hembras?” Tabla de Mareas 199° 44-46 (1991).

Villalobos, Ethel Marfa. Reproductive Strategies in Solitary
Hymenoptera: Plasticity in Mating and Nesting
Behaviors. Ph.D. dissertation, University of California, Los
Angeles (1990).

Vogt, George B. “Leaf-Rolling Weevils (Coleoptera:
Attelabidae), their Host Plants, and Associated Rhynchitid
Weevils in North America (Canada through the Republic
of Panama): Summary of a Long-Term Field Study.” In:
Insects of Panama and Mesoamerica: Selected Studies: 392-420,
edited by D. Quintero and Annette Aiello. Oxford: Oxford
University Press (1992).

Wcislo, William T. “Parasitic and Courtship of
Phalacrotophora halictorum (Diptera: Phoridae) at a Nesting
Site of Lasioglossum figueresi (Hymenoptera: Halictidae).”
Revista de Biologia Tropical 38(2A) 205-209 (1990).

. “Sapling Survival, Growth, and Recruitment:

Relationship to Canopy Height in a Neotropical Forest.”
Ecology 72(1): 35-50 (1991).

Weldon, Paul J., Sampson, H. Wayne, Wong, Luis and Lloyd,
Helen A. “Histology and Biochemistry of the Scent Glands
of the Yellow-bellied Sea Snake (Pelamis platurus:
Hydrophiidae) (1991).

Werner, Dagmar I. “The Rational Use of Green Iguanas.” In:
Neotropical Wildlife Use and Conservation: 181-201, edited by
John G. Robinson and Kent H. Redford. Chicago: The
University of Chicago Press (1991).

West Eberhard, Mary Jane. “Behavior and Evolution.” In:
Molds Molecules, and Metazoa: Growing Points in Evolutionary
Biology: 57-75, edited by P.R. Grand and H.S. Horn.
Princeton, Princeton University Press (1992).

. “Genetics, Epigenetics, and Flexibility: a Reply to

Crozier.” American Naturalist 139: 224-226 (1992).

. “Introduction.” In: The Social Biology of Wasps: 1-4,

edited by Kenneth G. Ross and Robert W. Matthews.

Ithaca: Comstock Publishing Associates (1991).

. “Sexual Selection and Social Behavior.” In: Man and
Beast Revisited: 159-172, edited by M.H. Robinson and L. Tiger.
Washington D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press (1991).

Wiley Jr., John P. “Phenomena, Comment and Notes.”
Smithsonian 2243): 29-32 (1991).

Wilson, Don E., Handley Jr., Charles O. and Gardner, Alfred
L. “Reproduction on Barro Colorado Island.” In:
Demography and Natural History of the Common Fruit Bat,
Artibeus jamaicensis, on Barro Colorado Island, Panamd:
43-52, edited by C.O. Handley Jr., D.E. Wilson and A.L.
Gardner. Washington D.C.: Smithsonian Contributions to
Zoology, No. 5u (1991).

Windsor, Donald M., Riley, Edward G. and Stockwell, Henry
P. “An Introduction to the Biology and Systematics of
Panamanian Tortoise Beetles (Coleoptera: Chrysomelidae:

Cassidinae).” In: Insects of Panama and Mesoamerica: Selected
Studies: 372-391, edited by D. Quintero and Annette Aiello.
Oxford: Oxford University Press (1992).

Winter, Klaus, and Gademann, R. “Daily Changes in CO,
and Water Vapor Exchange, Chlorophyll Fluorescence, and
Leaf Water Relations in the Halophyte Mesembryanthemum
crystallinum during the induction of Crassulacean Acid
Metabolism in Response to high NaCl salinity.” Plant
Physiology 95: 768-776 (1991).

Winter, Klaus and Kéniger, Martina. “Dry Matter Production
and Photosynthetic Capacity in Gossypium hirsutum L. under
Conditions of Slightly Suboptimum Leaf Temperatures and
High Levels of Irradiance.” Oecologia 87: 190-197 (1991).

Wolda, Henk. “The Czechoslovak-Vietnamese Expedition to
the Nam Cat Tien Reserve: A Comment.” In: Nam Cat
Tien. Czechoslovak Vietnamese Expedition. November 1989.
Research Report: 44-45, edited by K. Spitzer, J. Lep§ and M.
Zacharda. eské, Budjovice: Institute of Entomology,
Czechoslovak Academy of Sciences (1991).

. “The Usefulness of the Equilibrium Concept in

Population Dynamics. A Reply to Berryman.” Oecologia 86:

144-145 (1991).

. “Trends in Abundance of Tropical Forest Insects.”
Oecologia 89(1): 47-52 (1992).

Wolda, Henk and Ramos J.A. “Cicadas in Panama: Their
Distribution, Seasonality, and Diversity (Homoptera:
Cicadoidea).” In: Insects of Panama and Mesoamerica: Selected
Studies: 271-279, edited by D. Quintero and Annette Aiello.
Oxford: Oxford University Press (1992).

Wright, S. Joseph. “Seasonal Drought and the Phenology of
Understory Shrubs in a Tropical Moist Forest.” Ecology 72:
1643-1657 (1991).

Wulff, Janie L. “Asexual Fragmentation, Genotype Success,
and Population Dynamics of Erect Branching Sponges.”
Journal of Marine Biology and Ecology 149: 227-247 (1991).

. “Patterns and Processes of Size Change in Caribbean
Demosponges of Branching Morphology.” In: New
Perspectives in Sponge Biology: 425-435, edited by K. Ritzler.
Washington D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press (1990).

Yoder, J.A., Denlinger, David L. and Wolda, Henk.
“Aggregation Promotes Water Conservation During

Diapause in the Tropical Fungus Beetle, Stenotarsus
rotundus.” Entomol. Exp. Appl. 63: 203-205 (1992).

Yoder, Jay A. and Denlinger, David L. “A Comparison of the
Water Balance Characteristics of Temperate and Tropical
Fly Pupae.” Physiological Entomology 16: 375-380 (1991).

Young, Truman P. and Augspurger, Carol K. “Ecology and
Evolution of Long-Lived Semelparous Plants.” Tree 6(9):
285-289 (1991).

Young, Truman P. and Hubbell, Stephen P. “Crown
Asymmetry, Treefalls, and Repeat Disturbance of
Broad-Leaved Forest Gaps.” Ecology 72(4): 1464-1471. (199).

Zeh, David and Jeanne Zeh. “Dispersal-generated Sexual
Selection in a Beetle-riding Pseudoscorpion.” Behavioral
Ecology and Sociobiology 30: 135-142 (1992).

105
. “Failed Predation or Transportation? Causes and
Consequences of Phoretic Behavior in the Pseudoscorpion
Dinocheirus arizonensis (Pseudoscorpionida: Chernetidae).”

Journal of Insect Behavior 5(1): 37-49 (1992).

. “Novel Use of Silk by the Harlequin Beetle-Riding
Pseudoscorpion, Cordylochernes scorpioides (Pseudoscorpionida,
Chernetidae).” The Journal of Aracnology 19: 153-154 (1991).

———.. “Sexual Selection and Sexual Dimorphism in the
Harlequin Beetle Acrocinus longimanus.” Biotropica 24(1):
86-94 (1992).

Zelick, R., Rose, G. and Rand, A. Stanley. “Differential
Response to Frequency Modulation Rate and Direction by
the Neotropical Frog, Physalaemus pustulosus.” Animal
Behaviour 42: 413-421 (1991).

Zimmerman, Jess K. “Ecological Correlates of Labile Sex
Espression in the Orchid Catasetum viridiflavum.” Ecology
72(2): 597-608 (1991).

Ziska, L.H., Hogan, Kevin P., Smith, Alan P. and Drake, B.G.
“Growth and Photosynthetic Response of Nine Tropical

Species with Long-Term Exposure to Elevated Carbon
Dioxide.” Oecologia 86: 383-389 (1991).

Arts and Humanities

Archives of American Art

New England Regional Center

Brown, Robert F. Introduction to Kindred Spirits, catalogue of
the E. Maurice Bloch Collection of manuscripts, letters, and
sketchbooks of American artists. Ars Libri, Ltd., Boston,
Massachusetts. 2 vols. March, 1992.

West Coast Regional Center

Karlstrom, Paul J. David Jones, exhibition catalogue,
Bruanstein/Quay Gallery, San Francisco.

Southeast Regional Collector

Kirwin, Elizabeth. Reviews of: John Michael Vlach, Plain
Painters: Making Sense of American Folk Art; and Henry
Glassie, The spirit of Folk Art: The Girard Collection at the
Museum of International Folk Art. Archives of American Art
Journal 31 (October 1991): 31-34

. The Papers of African American Artists. Revised and

enlarged, September 1992.

106

New York Regional Center

Polcari, Stephen. Curated —“From Omaha to Abstract
Expressionism: American Artist's Responses to World War
II," SUNY at Potsdam. March/April 1992.

Freer Gallery of Art/Arthur M.
Sackler Gallery

Office of the Director

Beach, Milo C. “Jahangir’s Jahangirnama,” in The Powers of
Art—Patronage in Indian Culture. Delhi: Oxford University
Press, 1992.

. Mughal and Rajput Painting, Cambridge University

Press, 1992.

. Art of the Persian Courts, with Aboulala Soudavar,

1992.

Curatorial Department

Atil, Esin. “Revival and Reuse of Traditional Designs,”
Proceedings of the Symposium on Islamic Arts and Crafts, Rabat,
Morocco, 1992.

Bolon, Carol. “Bastar Brasses,” Asian Art, June 1992.

. Forms of the Goddess Lajja Gauri in Indian Apt.
College Art Association monograph, Penn State Press, 1992.

Cort, Louise. Review of Guangdong Ceramics from Butuan and
Other Philippine Sites, edited by Roxanna M. Brown, The
Journal of Asian Studies (February 1992).

. Seto and Mino Ceramics, University of Hawaii Press,

1992.

. “Whose Sleeves...? Gender, Class, and Meaning in
Japanese Dress of the Seventeenth Century,” in Dress and
Gender: Making and Meaning, edited by Ruth Barnes and
Joanne B. Eicher. New York and Oxford: Berg, 1992.

Shen Fu. “A Study of Chang Dai-chien’s Forgery of Li
Gonglin’s Painting, ‘The Three Worthies of Wu,’” Hsiung
Shih Art Monthly, Taipei, no. 254 (April 1992) 41-49.

. Challenging the Past: The Paintings of Chang Dai-chien

(1899-1983). Seattle: University of Washington Press, 1991.

. “Chang Dai-chien and Sui Dynasty Paintings at

Dunhuang,” Chung-yang Jib-pao, Taipei, April 16, 1992, 5.

. “Chang Dai-chien, Challenging the Past:

Introduction to a Sixty-year Retrospective of Chang

Dai-chien's Paintings,” Hsiung Shih Art Monthly, Taipei, no.

250 (December 1991) 133-172.

. “Chang Dai-chien’s Forgeries of Buddhist Paintings

from the Sui Dynasty,” Chung-yang Jih-pao, Taipei, February

1992, 5.

. “Huang Ting-chien’s Cursive Script and Its

Influence,” Words and Images: Chinese Poetry, Calligraphy and

Painting. Princeton: The Metropolitan Museum of Art and

Princeton University Press, 1991, 107-122.

. “Tung Ch’i-ch’ang and Ming Dynasty Calligraphy,”
Proceedings of the Tung Ch't-ch'ang International Symposium,
April 16-19, 1992. Kansas City: The Nelson-Atkins
Museum of Art, 1991, 20/I-17.

Gunter, Ann. “At the Museums: Treasures from
Mesopotamia.” A rrhaeology 45 (May-June 1992): 48-51.

. Review of S. Downey, Mesopotamian Religious

Architecture: Alexander through the Parthians (Princeton 1988).

Journal of Near Eastern Studies 51 (1992) 227-28.

Lawton, Thomas. “A Chinese Art Collection Divided and
Joined,” Shanghai Museum Fortieth-Anniversary Volume.

. “Jin Futing, a Nineteenth-Century Chinese
Collector-Connoisseur,” Transactions of the Oriental Ceramic
Society.

Merrill, Linda. A Pot of Paint: Aesthetics on Trial in Whistler v.
Ruskin, Smithsonian Institution Press, 1992.

Stuart, Jan. Challenging the Past: The Paintings of Chang
Dai-chien (1899-1983). Seattle: University of Washington
Press, 1991.

. “Challenging the Past: The Paintings of Chang

Dai-chien,” Museum Brochure, 1991.

. “Collaborative Endeavors in Chinese Art,” Knowledge,

Vol. 13, No. 2, December 1991.

. “From the Collection: A Ming Lacquer,” Arthur M.
Sackler Gallery Calendar, January/February 1992.

Yonemura, Ann. Gallery guide for “Ancient Japan”
exhibition, 1992.

Cooper-Hewitt Museum

Administration/Assistant Director for
Programs

Pekarik, Andrew. The Thirty-Six Immortal Women Poets. New
York: Geo. Braziller, 1991.

. Sculpture: Behind the Scenes. New York: Hyperion

Books for Children, 1992.

. Painting: Behind the Scenes. New York: Hyperion

Books for Children, 1992.

Contemporary Design Department

Lupton, Ellen, and J. Abbott Miller. The Bathroom, the Kitchen,
and the Aesthetics of Waste: A Process of Elimination.
Cambridge: MIT List Visual Arts Center, 1992.

Drawings and Prints Department

Bachmann, Konstanze, ed. Conservation Concerns: A Guide for
Collectors and Curators. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian
Institution Press, 1992.

Symmes, Marilyn. “...other languages, other signs...” The Books of
Antonio Frasconi. Exhibition catalogue. New York:
Neuberger Museum of Art, State University of New York
at Purchase, 1992.

Education Department

Yelavich, Susan. “On the Edge.” Design 517. (January 1992):
20-21.

Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden

Office of the Director

Weil, Stephen E. “Collecting a Private Art Collector: In
Search of the Ideal.” Asian Art 4 (Fall 1991): 2-7.

. “A Brief Meditation on Museums and the Metaphor

of Institutional Growth.” Courier 12 (May/June 1992): 11-12.

Office of Public Affairs

Lawrence, Sidney. “Sculpting the Land at Oliver Ranch.”
Garden Design 11 (December 1991): 14-17.

. “Boyd Webb.” In Boyd Webb: Photographs 1988-89.

Overland Park, Kansas: Johnson County Community

College, College of Art, 1992 [exhibition brochure].

Department of Education

Gordon, Barbara. Directions—Francesc Torres. Washington,
D.C.: Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden,
Smithsonian Institution, 1992 [exhibition brochure].

Department of Painting and Sculpture

Benezra, Neal. Martin Puryear. Chicago: Art Institute of
Chicago; New York and London: Thames and Hudson, 1991
[exhibition catalog].

Fletcher, Valerie. Crosscurrents of Modernism: Four Latin
American Pioneers. Washington, D.C.: Hirshhorn Museum
and Sculpture Garden/Smithsonian Institution Press, 1992
{bilingual exhibition catalog).

Gettings, Frank. 20 Artists: Paintings and Works on Paper. Santa
Fe, New Mexico: Western States Art Federation, 1992
[exhibition catalog}.

Rosenzweig, Phyllis. Directions —Thomas Struth: Museum
Photographs. Washington, D.C.: Hirshhorn Museum and

107
Sculpture Garden, Smithsonian Institution, 1992

{exhibition brochure].

. Joseph Kosuth WORKS—“A Play: The Herald Tribune,
Kafka and a Quote.” Washington, D.C.: Hirshhorn
Museum and Sculpture Garden, Smithsonian Institution,
1992 [exhibition brochure].

Zilczer, Judith. “Collaboration in Exhibitions.” Knowledge:
Creation, Diffusion, Utilization 12 (December 1991): 195-201.

Institutional Studies Office

Bickford, Adam, Doering, Zahava D. and Smith, Steven J.
Spiders are Coming! An Exhibition Background Study for the
National Museum of Natural History. Washington, D.C.:
Institutional Studies Office, Smithsonian Institution, 1992
[Report 92-4].

Doering, Zahava D. The Cultural Diversity of Smithsonian Staff,
Exhibitions, Public Programs, and Outreach Activities.
Washington, D.C.: Institutional Studies Office,
Smithsonian Institution, 1991 [Report 91-11].

“Using Audience Research in Exhibition

Development,” in The Audience in Exhibition Development.

Washington, D.C.: American Association of Museums,

1992.

Across the River: A Study of Visitors to the Anacostia

Museum. Washington, D.C.: Institutional Studies Office,

Smithsonian Institution, 1992. [Report 92-5.]

“Environmental Impact” in Museum News,

March/April 1992

et al., Smithsonian Educational Activities: A Discussion

Based on the 1991 Education Program Inventory. Washington,

D.C.: Institutional Studies Office, Smithsonian Institution,

1992 [Report 92-3].

with Bickford, Adam. Ritual and Celebration: a Study
of a 1991 Lecture and Concert Series at the Cooper-Hewitt
Museum. Washington, D.C.: Institutional Studies Office,
Smithsonian Institution, 1992 [Report 92-7].

Manning, Robert D. Cultural Diversity or Diverse Cultures: An
Inquiry into the Discourse of “Multiculturalism.” Washington,

D.C.: Institutional Studies Office, Smithsonian Institution,
1992 [Report 92-6].

Ziebarth, Elizabeth K., Doering, Zahava D. and Bickford,
Adam. Appreciating Art: A Study of Comparisons - An Exercise
in Looking at the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden.
Washington, D.C.: Institutional Studies Office,
Smithsonian Institution, 1992 [Report 92-2].

108

National Air and Space Museum

Department of Aeronautics

Crouch, Tom D. “Otto Lilienthal und die Amerikaner.” In Die
Schule Lilienthals: Der Einfluss Otto Lilienthals aur die
Entwickerlung der Flugtechnik in der Welt. Berlin: Museum
fur Verkher und Technik, 1992.

. “Hey Marge, Are We Still in Air and Space?’: Some

Thoughts on a New Exhibition at the National Air and

Space Museum.” Over the Front (Summer/Fall, 1992).

. “American Aviation.” In The Encyclopedia of American

History, edited by John Garraty and Eric Foner. New York:

Random House, 1992.

. “The Wright Brothers.” In The Encyclopedia of

American History, edited by John Garraty and Eric Foner.

New York: Random House, 1992.

. “Clarence M. Young.” In The Encyclopedia of American
Business History and Biography: The Airline Industry, edited
by W. Leary. New York: Facts on File, 1992.

Davies, R.E.G. “Aeroflot Revisited.” Air World, vol. 43 No. 3,
1991.

Hardesty, Von. “The Soviet Air Force: Doctrine, Organization
and Technology.” In The Conduct of the Air War in the Second
World War, An International Comparison, edited by Horst
Boog, pp. 207-227. New York and Oxford: Berg (St.
Martin's Press), 1992.

Jakab, Peter L. “Ecker Flying Boat.” In Aircraft of the National
Air and Space Museum, fourth edition, edited by Claudia M.
Oakes, Kathleen Brooks-Pazmany, and F. Robert van der
Linden. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press,
1991. .

Neufeld, Michael J. Book review: Robert W. Smith, The Space
Telescope: A Study in NASA, Science, Technology and Politics for
Journal of Interdisciplinary History 22 (Winter 1992): 551-553.

Pisano, Dominick. Book review: Stephen Craford, Technical
Workers in an Advanced Society: The Work, Careers and Politics
of French Engineers (Cambridge/New York/Melbourne:
Cambridge University Press; Paris: Editions de la Maison
des Sciences de l'Homme, 1989) for Isis: Journal of the
History of Science Society, (September 1991): 598.

. Book reviews: Barbara Garson, The Electronic

Sweatshop: How Computers Are Transforming the Office of the

Future into the Factory of the Past, reprint edition, edited by

Steven L. Goldman. New York: Penguin Books, 1989;

Science, Technology and Social Progress, Research in

Technology Studies, 2, edited by David C. Mowery and

Nathan Rosenberg. Bethlehem: Lehigh University Press;

London/Toronto: Associated University Presses, 1989;

Technology and the Pursuit of Economic Growth.

Cambridge/New York/Melbourne: Cambridge University

Press, 1989; for Isis: Journal of the History of Science Society

(March 1992): 168-170.

. Encyclopedia articles on: Federal Express, Edgar S.

Gorrell, Frederick W. Smith, and Eugene L. Vidal for The

Encyclopedia of American Business History and Biography: The
Airline Industry, edited by William M. Leary. New York:
Facts on File, 1992.

. “The Crash that Killed Knute Rockne.” Air & Space,

December 1991/January 1992, pp 88-93.

.“SPAD XIII Smith IV” in Aircraft of the National Air
and Space Museum, edited by F. Robert van der Linden.
Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1991.

Schneide, Karl. “PFALZD-XIII” in Aircraft of the National Air
and Space Museum, edited by F. Robert van der Linden.
Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1991.

van der Linden, Robert F. The Boeing 247: The First Modern
Airliner. Seattle: The University of Washington Press, 1991.

. [Editor] Aircraft of the National Air and Space

Museum, fourth edition. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian

Institution Press, 1992.

. “United Air Lines.” In Encyclopedia of American

Business History and Biography: The Airline industry, edited

by William M. Leary. New York: Facts on File, 1992.

. “William A. Patterson.” In Encyclopedia of American

Business History and Biography: The Airline Industry, edited

by William M. Leary. New York: Facts of File, 1992.

. “Eddie Hubbard.” In Encyclopedia of American Business

History and Biography: The Airline Industry, edited by

William M. Leary. New York: Facts on File, 1992.

Department of Space History

Ceruzzi, Paul E. “Die fruhen Arbeiten von Konrad Zuse im
Context der Erfindung des digitalen Computers, 1935-1950”
(The Early Work of Konrad Zuse in the Context of the
Invention of the Digital Computer, 1935-1950). In
Wissenschaftlisches Jahrbuch, 1991. Munich: Deutsches
Museum, Sept. 1992.

. “Digital Computers: History.” In Encyclopedia of

Computer Science and Engineering, third edition, edited by

Anthony Ralston and Edwin Reilly. New York: Van

Nostrand Reinhold, 1992.

. “Zuse Computers.” In Encyclopedia of Computer Science

and Engineering, third edition, edited by Anthony Ralston

and Edwin Reilly. New York: Van Nostrand Reinhold,

1992.

. “Bell Laboratories Relay Computers.” In Encyclopedia
of Computer Science and Engineering, third edition, edited by
Anthony Ralston and Edwin Reilly. New York: Van
Nostrand Reinhold, 1992.

DeVorkin, David. Book review: Owen Gingerich, “The Great
Copernicus Chase.” Sky & Telescope 84 #3 (Sept 1992):
284-287.

Herken, Gregg. Cardinal Choices. Presidential Science Advising
from the Atomic Bomb to SDI. New York: Oxford University
Press, 1992.

Needell, Allan A. “From Military Research to Big Science:
Lloyd Berkner and Science Statemanship in the Postwar
Era.” In Big Science: The Growth of Large Scale Research,

edited by P. Galison and B. Hevly, pp. 290-311. Stanford,
CA: Stanford University Press, 1992.

Smith, Robert W. “The Biggest Kind of Big Science” in Big
Science, edited by Peter Galison and Bruce Hevly, eds, pp.
184-211. Stanford CA: Stanford University Press, 1992.

. “Astronomy in the Nineteenth and Twentieth

Centuries.” In Storia Delle Scienze Fische E Astonomiche,

edited by William R. Shea, pp. 542-593. Electra Press, 1992.

Center for Earth and Planetary Studies

Craddock, R.A. “The Initial Exploration of Mars: Rationale
for a Return Mission to Chryse Planitia and the Viking 1
Lander.” In Engineering, Construction, and Operations in Space
III, Proceedings of Third International Conference, pp.
1488-1499. Denver: 1992.

Craddock, R. A. and T.A. Maxwell. “Nature of Early Fluvial
Processes on Mars.” Geological Society of America Abstracts
with Programs 23 (1991):A402. [Abstract]

———and T.A. Maxwell. “Morphologic Variations of
Degraded Impact Craters in the Martian Highlands.” Lunar
and Planetary Science X XIII, pp. 255-256. Houston: Lunar
and Planetary Institute, 1992. [Abstract]

———and T.A. Maxwell. “Fluvial Resurfacing of Early Mars
and Relation to Degassing of the Primordial Atmosphere.”
Transactions of American Geophysical Union 73(14X1992):184.
[Abstract]

—— and T.A. Maxwell. “Nature and Evolution of the Early
Martian Atmosphere: Evidence from Highland Crater
Populations.” In Workshop on Evolution of the Martian
Atmosphere, p. 728. Kona: 1992. [Abstract]

Dollfus, A. and J.R. Zimbeleman. “Martian Surface Texture
and Wind Effect Implications.” Lunar and Planetary Science
XXIII, pp. 313-314. Houston: Lunar and Planetary Institute,
1992. [Abstract]

Frey, H. and J.R. Zimbelman. “Mars Resurfacing Through
Time: Processes, Problems, and Prospects for the Future.”
Transactions of American Geophysical Union 73(14X1992):183.
[Abstract]

Maxwell, T.A. and R.A. Craddock. “Geologic Effects of
Atmosphere Loss on Mars: Evidence From Highland
Erosion.” Lunar and Planetary Science XXIII, pp. 863-864.
Houston: Lunar and Planetary Institute, 1992. [Abstract]

Robinson, M.S. and J.R. Zimbelman. “Viking IRTM Analysis
of Apollinaris Patera, Mars.” Lunar and Planetary Science
XXIII, pp. 165-1166. Houston: Lunar and Planetary
Institute, 1992. [Abstract]

Robinson, M.S., J.R. Zimbelman, S.S. Wu, K.K. Ablin, and
A.E. Howington-Kraus. “Apollinaris Patera, Mars:
Complex Volcanic Evolution Through Time” in
Transactions of American Geophysical Union 73(14X1992):184.
[Abstract]

Strain, P.L. and FE. Engle. Looking at Earth. Atlanta: Turner
Publishing, 1992.

109
. “Looking at Earth.” Air & Space, August/September,

1992.

Squyres. $.W., S.M. Clifford., R.O. Kuzmin, J.R. Zimbelman,
and F. Costard. “Ice in the Martian Megaregolith.” Mars,
edited by H. Kieffer et al. Tempe, AZ: University of
Arizona Press, 1992.

Tchakerian, V.P., J.R. Zimbelman, and S.H. Williams. “The
Transport of Aeolian Sediments Across Basins, Mojave
Desert, California and Arizona.” American Association
Geograph. 8&h Annual Meeting Abstracts, p. 235. San Diego:
1992. [Abstract]

, J-R. Zimbelman, and S.H. Williams. “The Nature
and Frequency of Interbasin Eolian Transport and
Deposition, Southern Mojave Desert, California and
Arizona.” Geological Society of America Abstracts With
Programs 24(1992). {Abstract}

Watters, T.R. “Origin of Periodically Spaced Wrinkle Ridges
on the Tharsis Plateau of Mars.” Journal of Geophysical
Research 96(E1X1991):15,599-15,616.

. “System of Tectonic Features Common to Earth,

Mars, and Venus.” Geology 20{1992):609-612.

. “A Globally Distributed Compressional Ridge System
on Mars?” Lunar and Planetary Science XXIII, pp. 1501-1502.
Houston: Lunar and Planetary Institute, 1992. [Abstract]

Zimbelman, J.R., S.H. Williams, and V.P. Tchakerian.
“Evidence of Eolian Sand Transport Across the Colorado
River.” Transactions of American Geophysical Union
72(44X1991):214. [Abstract]

Zimbelman, J.R. “Late-stage Effusion and Mass-wasting on
the Western Flank of Ascraeus Mons Volcano, Mars.”
Transactions of American Geophysical Union 72(44\1991):279.
[Abstract]

. “Late-stage Effusion and Mass-wasting on Acraeus

Mons Volcano, Mars.” Lunar and Planetary Science X XIII,

Pp- 1579-1580. Houston: Lunar and Planetary Institute,

1992. [Abstract]

. “Endogenic Modification of the Western Flanks of

the Tharsis Montes Volcanoes, Mars.” Transactions American

Geophysical Union 73(14X1992):184. [Abstract]

. “Meteoritics.” Geotimes 37(2K1992):29-30.

Zimbelman, J.R. and K.S. Edgett, K.S. “Volcanic and
Modified Landforms on the Tharsis Montes, Mars.” Lunar
and Planetary Science XXIII, pp. 1581-1582. Houston: Lunar
and Planetary Institute, 1992. [Abstract]

. “The Tharsis Montes, Mars: Comparison of Volcanic

and Modified Landforms.” Proceedings Lunar and Planetary

Science Conference XXIII, pp. 31-44. Lunar and Planetary

Institute: Houston, 1992.

Collections Management

Bell, Dana. USAF Colors and Markings in the 1990s London:
Greenhill Books, 1992.

Hagedorn, Dan. Republic P-47 Thunderbolt: The Final Chapter.
St. Paul, MN: Phalanx Publishing Co., Ltd., 1991.

IIo

McManus, Ed and Mary T. Baker. “History, Care, and
Handling of America’s Spacesuits: Problems in Modern
Materials,” Journal of the American Institute for Conservation,

31 (Spring 1992): 77-85.

McManus, Ed, E.B. Lange, and Mary T. Baker. “Implications
of Cold Storage on the Nation's Collection of Spacesuits,”
Proceedings, 204th National Meeting of the American Chemical
Society. Washington, D.C.: American Chemical Society, 1992.

Laboratory for Astrophysics

Beck S., J. Fischer, and H. Smith. “IR Recombination Lines of
Hydrogen from Young Objects in the Southern Galactic
Plane.” Astrophys. J., 383, 336, 1991.

Goldstein, Jeffrey. “Scientific Exploration: A Journey of
Discovery.” Science Books and Films 28, March 1992.
American Association for the Advancement of Science.

Goldstein, Jeffrey, M.J. Mumma, T. Kostiuk, D. Deming, E
Espenak, and D. Zipoy, “Absolute Wind Velocities in the
Lower Thermosphere of Venus Using Infrared Heterodyne
Spectroscopy,” Icarus 94, 45.

Greenhouse M.A., Woodward, C.E., Thronson, H.A., and
Rudy, R.J. “Near-Infrared [Fe II} Emission of M82
Supernova: Lmplications for Tracing The Supernovae
Content of Galaxies,” Astrophys. J., 383, 164.

Harwit, Martin. “Integrated Transportation Systems,” Air &
Space, October/November, 1991: p. 4.

. “Galaxy Formation in the Universe” in Les Houches

Summer School on Astronomy with ISO, Summer 1991, edited by

Therese Encrenaz, 1992.

. “Second-Guessing the Future,” Air & Space,

December 1991/January 1992, p. 4.

. “The Vision Thing”, side-bar for “The Spies in

Space” by Jeffrey T. Richelson, Air & Space, December

1991/January 1992, pp. 74-80.

. “Welcome to the National Air and Space

Museum—Official Guide to the National Air and Space

Museum, 1991.”

. “The Museum Extension—A Reply,” Air & Space,

February/March 1992, p. 4.

. “Are We Doing Our Job?,” Air & Space, April/May

1992, p. 4.

. “Clarity of Goals,” Air & Space, June/July 1992, p.4.

. “Why Star Trek?,” Air & Space, August/September

1992. p. 4.

. “Cosmic Curvature and Condensation,” Astrophys. J.
392, 403, 1992.

Lellouch, E., J. Goldstein, $. Bougher, G. Paubert, and J.
Rosenqvist. “Absolute Wind Measurements in the Middle
Atmosphere of Mars,” Astrophys. J. 383, 401.

National Museum of African Art

Eliot Elisofon Photographic Archives

Geary, Christraud M. (editor). Historical Photographs of Africa.
Special issue of African Arts 24 (4), 1991.

. “Elephants, Ivory, and Chiefs: The Elephant in the

Arts of the Cameroon Grassfields.” in Doran Ross (ed.)

Elephant: The Animal and its Ivory in African Culture. Los

Angeles (Fowler Museum of Cultural History, UCLA).

. “Missionary Photography: Public and Private

Readings.” African Arts 24 (4): 48-59, 1991.

. “Museum Image Banks.” (with Melissa A.N. Keiser

and Joan Stahl) Museum News November/December: 53-57,

1991.

. “Old Pictures, New Approaches: Researching
Historical Photographs.” African Arts 24 (4): 36-39, 1991.

Conservation Department

Mellor, Stephen P. “The Exhibition and Conservation of
African Objects: Considering the Nontangible.” Journal of
the American Institute for Conservation, 31 (3): 3-16, 1992.

Curatorial Department

Ravenhill, Philip L. “What Museums for Africa?” Museum
News, March/April: 78-79, 1990.

. The Art of the Personal Object. National Museum of

African Art/University of Washington Press, 1991.

. “The Art of the Personal Object” [introductory

essay], African Arts 25 (1): 70-74, 1992.

. “Of Pachyderms and Power: Ivory and the Elephant
in the Art of Central Céte d'Ivoire.” in Doran Ross (ed.)
Elephant: The Animal and its Ivory in African Culture. Los
Angeles (Fowler Museum of Cultural History, UCLA).

Sieber, Roy. “Purpose and Perfection: Pottery as a Woman's
Art in Central Africa” [brochure]. National Museum of
African Art, 1992.

- History, Design, and Craft in West African Strip-Woven

Cloth {introduction}. National Museum of African Art,

1992.

Exhibits Department

Farug, Sala. Screen Printing with Water-Based Inks [manual].
National Museum of African Art, 1992.

National Museum of American Art

NMAA Publications

Broun, Dr. Elizabeth. introduction to Between Heaven and
Home: Contemporary American Landscape Photography.
Washington, D.C.: National Museum of American Art,
1992.

Everett, Gwendoyln F. Li’/ Sis and Uncle Willie. Washington,
D.C.: National Museum of American Art, 1992.

Fink, Lois Marie. “American Art at the 1889 Paris Exposition:
The Paintings They Love to Hate.” American Art Journal
(Fall 1991, Vol. 5, No. 4): 35-53.

Foresta, Merry A. Between Heaven and Home: Contemporary
American Landscape Photography. Washington, D.C.:
National Museum of American Art, 1992.

Geary, Christraud M. and Melissa A.N. Keiser and Joan Stahl.
“Museum Image Banks” in Museum News. Vol 70., No. 6,
November/December 1991, p. 53-58.

Geary, Christraud M. and Melissa A.N. Keiser and Joan Stahl.
“Promises and Dilemmas: Photographic Archives in
Museums” in VRA: Visual Resources Association Bulletin. Vol.
19, No. 2, Summer 1992, p. 26-30.

Monroe, Michael. introductions to A/bert Paley: Sculptural
Adornment. Washington, D.C.: Renwick Gallery of the
National Museum of American Art, 1992.

Monroe, Michael. introduction to John McQueen: Language of
Containment. Washington, D.C.: Renwick Gallery of the
National Museum of American Art, 1992.

Nemerov, Alexander. “N.C. Wyeth’s Theater of Illustration.”
American Art Journal (Spring 1992): 37-57.

Staff Work Published Elsewhere

Foresta, Merry A. “Tracing The Light: Experimental
Photography in the Age of Contact,” APERTURE
(December 1991).

Foresta, Merry A. Between Heaven and Home: Contemporary
American Landscape Photography. New Mexico: University of
New Mexico Press, 1992.

. Friedensreich Hundertwasser. Taschen Verlag. Cologne,

Germany:, 1991. Second printing 1992.

. Notes & Recollections: Jochen Seidel Kompt nach Berlin:

Die Ruhr. Berlin: Staatliche Kunsthalle, March 1992.

. “Torah’s Incipient Esthetics.” Religious Education

(Winter 1991): vol. 86, n. 1. Special Art Issue.

. “The Bethrothal I,” The Rita and Taft Schreiber

Collection. Los Angeles: The Museum of Contemporary Art,

1991

Poetry

The Plum Review
American Poetry Review

III
Book Review

Terminology for Museums (Art Documentation, Vol. 10 No. 4,
Winter 1991)

Mail Art: An Annotated Bibliography (Art Documentation, Vol.
ul, No. 2, Summer, 1992)

National Museum of American History

Department of the History of
Science and Technology

Allison, David K., and Tom Gwaltney. “How People Use
Electronic Interactives in ‘Information Age: People,
Information & Technology.'” in Hypermedia and Interactivity
in Museums: Procedings of an International Conference.
Pittsbugh, PA: Archives & Museum Informatics, 1991.

Borden, Carla M., Jeffrey K. Stine, and Elizabeth A. Zimmer.
“Knowledge Collaborations in the Arts, the Sciences, and
the Humanities: Edited Excerpts from a Smithsonian
Seminar Series—Part 2: The Sciences.” Knowledge: Creation,
Diffusion, Utilization 13 (June 1992): 399-409.

Davis, Audrey, and Richard Glenner, D.D.S. “Dental
Machines Then and Now.” AO 84 (1991): 14-16.

Edwards, Nanci K., Peter Liebhold, Steven Lubar, and Harry
R. Rubenstein. Constructed Realities: A Photographic Record of
Work. Smithsonian Traveling Exhibition Service, 1992.

Eklund, Jon. “The Hardy Automatic Recording
Spectrophotometer: From Apparatus to Instrument.”
Rittenhouse 6 (May 1992) 73-86.

Finn, Bernard S. The History of Electrical Technology: An
Annotated Bibliography. New York: Garland Press, 1991.

. “Edison and the Style of Invention.” Rassagna:

Problemi di architettura dell'’ambiente. 13, 42/2 (1991): 44-53-

. Review of I. Bernard Cohen, Benjamin Franklin's
Science. in ISTS 83 (1992): 329-330.

Forman, Paul. “Stuck in Neutral: Science, morality and the
case of Werner Heisenberg.” Review of Robert N. Proctor,
Value-Free Science? Purity and Power In Modern Knowledge,
and David C. Cassidy, Uncertainty: The Life and Science of
Werner Heisenberg. in The Sciences (March/April 1992): 44-49.

. Review of Harvey M. Sapolsky, Science and the Navy:

The History of the Office of Naval Research. in Annals of the

History of Computing 14 (1992): 60-62.

. Review of Finn Aaserud, Redirecting Science: Niels
Bobr, Philanthropy and the Rise of Nuclear Physics. in Physics
Today (November 1991): 93-94.

Gossel, Patricia L. “A Need for Standard Methods: The Case
of American Bacteriology.” in Adele E. Clarke and Joan H.
Fujimura (eds.). The Right Tools for the Job. Princeton, NJ:
Princeton University Press, 1992.

Green, Rayna. “Red Earth People and Southeastern Basketry.”
in Linda Mowat (ed.). Basketmakers: Meaning and Form in

112

Native American Baskets. Oxford, England: Pitt Rivers
Musemum, 1992.

. “We Are Here: 500 Years of Pueblo Resistance”.
Filmscript, 13 minute color film associated with the
exhibition, “American Encounters.” Smithsonian

Telecommunications, 1992 (June).

Green, Rayna, with Lisa Thompson. American Indian Sacred
Objects, Skeletal Remains, Repatriation and Reburial: A Resource
Guide: A 1992 Update to the 1990 Guide. Washington:
NMAH/American Indian Program, 1992.

Gould, Ed, and Rayna Green. A merican Indian Plant Pioneers
(American Indian Food Plants, American Indian Medicinal
Plants) and African-American Plant Pioneers: A Poster Series.
Washington, DC: National Zoological Park and National
Museum of History, 1991.

Harris, Michael R. and John Parascandola. “Images of
Hospital Pharmacy in America.” American Journal of
Hospital Pharmacy (1992).

Harris, Michael R., Dr. Greg Higby, Dr. Glenn Sonnedeeleer,
Professor Ernst Stieb and Dr. Jeffery Sturchio. “A Panel
Discussion: The Historical Literature of American
Pharmacy.” Pharmacy in History 34 (1992): 61-128.

Kondratas, Ramunas. “The Preservation and Disposition of
Hazardous Substances and Controlled Drugs in Museum
Collections.” Caduceus 7 (1991): 55-62.

Johnson, Paula J. Review of Timothy C. Lloyd, and Patrick B.
Mullen, Lake Erie Fishermen: Work, Tradition, and Identity. in
Journal of American Folklore 105.416 (1992): 242-244.

. Review of Thomas Vennum Jr., (ed.), Ojibway Music

from Minnesota: A Century of Song for Voice and Drum, and

Philip Nusbaum, (ed.), Norwegian-American Music from

Minnesota: Old-Time and Traditional Favorites. in American

Music 10.1 (1992): 103-106.

. Review of Frances W. Dize, Smith Island, Chesapeake
Bay. in Maryland Historical Magazine 86 (Winter 1991):
454-455.

Johnson, Paula J. and David A. Taylor. “Beyond the Boat:
Documenting the Cultural Context.” in Boats - A Manual
for Their Documentation. American Association for State and
Local History and Museum Small Craft Association, 1992.

Johnston, Paul F. “Maritime Museum Policy and the
Acquisition of Archaeological Materials.” Bulletin of the
Australian Institute of Maritime Archaeology 15.2 (1992): 41-44.

. “Is it Treasure or a Worthless Piece of Ship?”

Historical Archaeology 26.4 (1992).

. Review of G. and C. Henderson, Unfinished Voyages:

Western Australian Shipwrecks 1851-1880. in The American

Neptune 51.2 (1991): 138.

. Review of L. Casson, The Periplus Maris Erythraei. in
The American Neptune 51.1 (1991): §4-55-

Lubar, Steven. “Representing Technological Knowledge.”
Conference on Critical Problems and Research Frontiers in History
of Science and History of Technology, 1991.

. “The Transformation of American Patent Law.”

Technology and Culture (October 1991).

. “Do Not Fold, Spindle, or Mutilate; The Cultural
History of the Punchard.” Journal of American Culture (Fall
1992).

. “Robot Videohistory.” in Terry Shorzman, (ed.). The
Videohistory Handbook. Malabar, FL: Krieger Publishing,
1992.

Marefat, Mina. “The Protagonists Who Shaped Modern
Tehran.” in C. Adle and B. Hourcade, (eds.). Tehran Capital
Bicentenaire. Paris/Tehran: Institute Francais de Recherche

en Iran, 1992.

Molella, Arthur P. “Nationalism, Technology, and the
National Technology Museum.” Studies in the History of
Science and Technology. Institute for the History of Science
and Technology, U.S.S.R. Academy of Sciences, 1991.

Morrison, Howard, with Richard Ahlborn, Lisa Falk, Henry
Grasso, Rayna Green and Lonn Taylor. American Encounters:
A Companion Book to the Exhibit. Washington, DC: National
Museum of American History, 1992.

Post, Robert. “Strip, Salt, and Other Straightway Dreams.” in
John L. Wright (ed.) Possible Dreams: Enthusiasm for
Technology in America, 98-109. Dearborn: Henry Ford
Museum and Greenfield Village, 1992.

. “The Machines of Nowhere.” Invention and Technology
8 (Spring 1992): 28-35.

Sharrer, G. Terry. “The Mouse That Roared: Mapping the
Genome of Arabidopsis thaliana.” The Historical Gardener 1
(Spring 1992): 5-6, 12.

. “The Biology Revolution: Then and Now.” The
Virginia Dairyman. 56 (February 1992): 49-52.

Stine, Jeffrey K. “The Tennessee-Tombigbee Waterway and
the Evolution of Cultural Resources Management.” The
Public Historian 14 (Spring 1992): 7-30.

. “Scientific Instrumentation as an Element of U.S.
Science Policy: National Science Foundation Support of
Chemistry Instrumentation.” in Robert Bud and Susan
Cozzens, (eds.). Invisible Connections: Instruments, Institutions,
and Sciences. Bellingham, Wash.: SPIE, 1992.

Turner, Steven. “Spiders in the Crosshairs: Cobwebs and
the Search for the Perfect Line.” Rittenhouse 6 (November
1991): I-10.

Warner, Deborah Jean. “British Instrument Makers in the
U.S.” Rittenhouse 6 (November 1991): 25-31.

. “Richard Patten (1792-1865).” Rittenhouse 6 (February

1992): 57-63.

. “Projection Apparatus for Science in Antebellum

America.” Rittenhouse 6 (May 1992): 87-94

. “Physics as a Moral Discipline: Undergraduate
Laboratories in the Late Nineteenth Century.” Rittenhouse 6
(August 1992) 116-128.

White, Roger B. “Body by Fisher: The Closed Car
Revolution.” Automobile Quarterly 29.4 (1991): 46-63.

Withuhn, William L. “The Practice of the History of
Technology in the West: An Overview (in Russian).”
Problems in the History of Natural Sciences and Technology 3
(1991): 145-149.

Worthington, William. “Historical Survey of American
Railroad Bridges and Structures.” in Proceedings of the 96th
Annual Conference of the American Railway Bridges & Building
Association (1991): 20-31.

Department of Social and Cultural History

Adrosko, Rita J. “Transcription, Translation and Comments
on Jacob Angstadt’s Dye Recipes” in Jacob Angstadt, His
Diaber Book by Ruth N. Holroyd and Ulrike L. Beck.
Pittsford, N.Y.: Rith N. Holroyd, 1992, pp. 217-240.

. Plans for Making a 1gth-Century American Loom. St.
Paul, Minn.:Dos Tejedoras Fiber Arts Publications, 1992
(revision of Plans for Making an Early American Loom,
published by Smithsonian Institution Press, 1968).

Ahlborn, Richard E. “The Mission San Antonio Prayer and
Song Board.” Southern California Quarterly 74 (no. 1, Spring,
w/ 5 plates, 1992): I-17.

Bruns, James H. Mai/ on the Move. Polo, Illinois:
Transportation Trails, 1992.

Harris, Elizabeth M. The Boy and His Press. Smithsonian
Institution, 1992.

Melder, Keith, with Edith P. Mayo and William L. Bird, Jr.
Hail to the Candidate: Presidential Campaigns from Banners to
Broadcasts. Washington: Smithsonian Institution Press,

1992.

Department of Public Programs

Morrison, Howard. American Encounters. Smithsonian
Institution, 1992.

Office of Academic Programs

Kulik, Gary B. “The American Industrial Revolution,” in
Encyclopedia of American Social History (New York, 1992).

. “Introduction” to Mermaids, Mummies, and Mastodons:

The Emergence of the American Museum, ed. by William

Alderson (Washington, 1992).

. “An American Visionary,” Museum News (Sept.-Oct.

1992).

Archives Center

Haberstich, David. Review, “Photograph Preservation and the
Research Library,” Jennifer Porro, ed. Abbey Newsletter, Vol.
16, No. 1 (Feb. 1992), pp. 13-14.

. Foreword and editor, Register of the Donald H.

Sultner-Welles Collection, ca. 1790-1981, by Laurie A. Baty.

Washington, D.C.: Archives Center, National Museum of

American History, Smithsonian Institution, 1991.

113
National Numismatic Collection

Clain-Stefanelli, Elvira. “A Survey of Numismatic Literature
1985-1989: General,” A Survey of Numismatic Research
1985-1990. Brussels: International Numismatic Commission
and International Association of Professional
Numismatists, 1991; pp. 1-27. In cooperation with Ray
Hebert.

. “Late Silver Issues of Rhegium—A Janus Head Type

in Rhegium,” Florilegium Numismaticum Studia in Honorem.

Stockholm: Svenska Numismatiska Foreningen, 1992; pp.

119-126.

. “From the Drawingboard of a Coin Engraver.

Sketches by Christian Gobrecht for the Coinage of

1836-1839," The American Numismatic Association Centennial

Anthology. Wolfeboro, New Hampshire: Bowers and

Merena, 1991; pp. 79-98, illus.

. “Old Friends—Common Goals. The Evolution of
Numismatics in the United States,” The American Numismatic
Association Centennial Anthology. Wolfeboro, New Hampshire:
Bowers and Merena, 1991; pp. 293-299, illus.

Doty, Richard. “An Overlooked Russian Contribution to the
Industrialization of Money,” Journal of the Russian
Numismatic Society. 44 Fall 1991; pp. 8-1.

. “Juaristas, lmperialistas, and Centavos:

Decimalization and Civil War in Mexico, 1857-1870,”
American Journal of Numismatics. 3/4 Second Series, 1992.

. “Making Money in Early Massachusetts,” Money of
Pre-Federal America. (Proceedings of the Seventh Coinage of
the Americas Conference, New York, May 4, 1991); New
York: American Numismatic Society, 1992; pp. I-14.

. “Mexico Numismatico: Tesoros de Nuestra

Coleccion/Mexican Numismatics: Treasures from the
Smithsonian Collection,” Boletin de la Sociedad Numismatica
de Mexico. 146.

. “Money: How Do I! Know It’s O.K.?” Money: Lure,
Lore, and Liquidity. Proceedings of the Hofstra University
Money Conference, November 21-23, 1991 to be published
by Hofstra University and Greenwood Press.

. “North America,” A Survey of Numismatic Research,
1985-199a. Brussels: International Numismatic Commission,
1991; pp. 589-600.

. Review of La Casa de Moneda de Mexico a Mas de 450
Anos, ed. Miguel Angel Porrua, American Journal of

Numismatic. 3/4 Second Series, 1992.
. Reviews of Merchant Countermarks on World Coins, by
Gregory G. Brunk; Coinage of the Americans Proceedings Nos.

I-6, by the American Numismatic Society; and Primeras

Memorias de la Casa de Moneda de Mexico, ed. Miguel Angel

Porrua; all in Numismatic Chronicle. 151 1991; pp. 279-283,

283-286.

. Review of The Coinage of El Peru, ed. William
Bischoff, in Revue Numismatique. 34 1992.

Gillilland, Cory. “Public Opinion and the Nation's Coinage,”
American Numismatic Centennial Anthology. Wolfeboro, New
Hampshire: Bowers and Merena, 1991; pp. 301-319, illus.

114

. “United States Medals,” A Survey of Numismatic
Research, 1985-1990. Brussels: International Numismatic
Commission, 1991.

National Portrait Gallery

Office of Computer Specialist

Kabel, Margo, Francisco Dallmeier, and Richard Rice.
“Methods for Long-Term Biodiversity Inventory Plots in
Protected Tropical Forests” in Long Term Monitoring of
Biological Diversity in Tropical Forest Areas, edited by
Francisco Dallmeier: MAB Digest 11, 1992. 1-45.

, Francisco Dallmeier, Charlotte M. Taylor, John C.

Mayne, and Richard Rice. “Case Study of SI/MAB

Biological Diversity Plot Research Methodology: Effects of

Hurricane Hugo on the Bisley Biodiversity Plot, Luquillo

Biosphere Reserve, Puerto Rico” in Long Term Monitoring of

Biological Diversity in Tropical Forest Areas, edited by

Francisco Dallmeier: MAB Digest 11: 1992. 47-71.

Office of the Director

Fern, Alan. “Portraits of a Nation” in Uncommon Australians:
Towards an Australian Portrait Gallery. Sydney, Australia:
Art Exhibitions Australia Limited, 1992, pp.9-10.

, with Arnold Newman. Arnold Newman's Americans.

Washington, DC: National Portrait Gallery, Smithsonian

Institution, in association with Bulfinch Press/Little,

Brown and Company, Boston, 1992.

. “Introduction” in Lubarsky, Jared, Noble Heritage:

Five Centuries of Portraits from the Hosokawa Family.

Washington, DC: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1992,

PP-9-13.

Office of the Historian

Henderson, Amy. “Media and the Rise of Celebrity Culture”
in OAH Magazine of History, Vol. 6, No. 4 (Spring 1992):
49-54-

Library

Martin R. Kalfatovic. Nile Notes of a Howadji: a Bibliography of
Travelers’ Tales from Egypt, from the Earliest Time to 1918.
Metuchen, NJ: Scarecrow Press, 1992.

. [Review] Elizabeth Johns, American Genre Painting:

the Politics of Everyday Life (New Haven, 1992). Library

Journal 117 (April 15, 1992): 88-89.

. [Review] Mary Jane Jacobs, editor, Places with a Past:

New Site-specific art at Charleston's Spoleto Festival (New York,

1992). Library Journal 17 (July 1992): 82.

. [Review] Marco Livingstone, editor, Pop Art: an
International Perspective (New York, 1992). Library Journal
u7 (May 15, 1992): 92.

Department of Painting and Sculpture

Christman Margaret C. S. “The Spirit of Party”: Hamilton &
Jefferson at Odds. Washington, D.C., and Charlottesville,
Virginia, 1992.

Fortune, Brandon Brame. “’From the World Escaped’: Peale's
Portrait of William Smith and His Grandson.”
Eighteenth-Century Studies 25 (Summer 1992): 587-615.

The Peale Family Papers

The Selected Papers of Charles Willson Peale and His Family.
Volume 3: The Belfield Farm Years, 1810-1820, edited by
Lillian B. Miller, Sidney Hart, and David C. Ward. New
Haven and London: Yale University Press 1991.

Hart, Sidney and Ward, David C. “The Waning of an
Enlightenment Ideal: Charles Willson Peale’s Philadelphia
Museum, 1790-1820.” Reprinted in American Culture,
17761815, edited by Peter S. Onuf. New York and London:
Garland Publishing Inc., 1991, 297-326.

Ward, David C. “The Civil War Memoirs of Grant and
Sherman.” Maryland Historical Magazine 87 (Spring 1992):
107-09.

. Gary W. Gallagher, ed., Struggle for the Shenendoah:

Essays on the 1864 Valley Campaign (Kent, Ohio, 1991)

reviewed in Maryland Historical Magazine 87 (Summer

1992): 237-38.

. Nancy Rash, The Painting and Politics of George Caleb

Bingham (New Haven, 1991) reviewed in Civil War History

38 (June 1992): 178-80.

. F. Daniel Larkin, John B. Jervis: An American

Engineering Pioneer (Ames, Iowa, 1990) reviewed in

New-York History 73 (January 1992): 105-06.

. Beverley Wilson Palmer, ed., The Selected Papers of

Charles Sumner, 2 vols. (Boston, 1990) reviewed in The New

England Quarterly 64 (December 1991): 670-73.

. Wallace J. Schutze and Walter N. Trenerry,

Abandoned by Lincoln. A Military Biography of General John

Pope (Champaign, Lllinois, 1990) and Robert K. Krick,

Stonewall Jackson at Cedar Mountain (Chapel Hill, 1990)

reviewed in the Maryland Historical Magazine 86 (Fall 1991):

348-50.

Department of Prints and Drawings

Reaves, Wendy Wick. “Gladys Engel Lang and Kurt Lang,
Etched in Memory: The Building and Survival of Artistic

Reputation.” (book review) Archives of American Art Journal 31

(number 1 1991): 27-28.

. “Portrait Prints: Washington Print Club Biennial.” The

Washington Print Club Quarterly 28 (Winter 1991-1992): 6.

. Collecting Portrait Prints: Washington Print Club

Biennial. National Portrait Gallery, 1991. (brochure)

. Poster Portraits. National Portrait Gallery, 1992.
(brochure)

Wagner, Ann. “The Works on Paper Gallery of the Phillips
Collection.” The Washington Print Club Quarterly 28 (Winter
1991-1992): 6-7.

. “Poster Portraits at the National Portrait Gallery.”

The Washington Print Club Quarterly 28 (Spring 1992): 8.

. “A Tour of Homage to Callot at the National Gallery

of Art” The Washington Print Club Quarterly 28 (Summer

1992): 5-6.

Office of Museum Programs

American Association of Museums. The Audience in Exhibition
Development: course proceedings from a training program developed
by the Office of Museum Programs, Smithsonian Institution,
Washington, D. C. Professional Practice Series, Technical
Information Service, American Association of Museums,
Washington, D. C., 1992.

Craig, Bruce C., editor. Internship Opportunities at the
Smithsonian Institution. Office of Museum Programs,
Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D. C., 1992.

Fuller, Nancy J., “Ak-Chin Him Dak - A New Model for
Community Heritage Management Opens to Public,” in
CRM, edited by Patricia L. Parker, U. S. Department of the
Interior, National Park Service Cultural Resources,
Washington, D. C., 1991, Vol. 14: No. 5, pp. 36, 37, 43-

Fuller, Nancy J., “The Museum as a Vehicle of Community
Empowerment: The Ak-Chin Indian Community
Ecomuseum Project” in Museum and Communities: Debating
Public Culture, edited by Ivan Karp and Stephen Lavine, SI
Press, Washington, DC, 1992.

LaMaster, Teresa K., “On Professional Knowing” in Patterns in
Practice: Selections from the Journal of Museum Education,
Museum Education Roundtable, Inc., Washington, D. C.,
1992, Pp. 331-332.

Sadongei, Alyce, “New Training Opportunities for American
Indians at the Smithsonian Institution-The American
Indian Museum Studies Program,” in CRM, edited by
Patricia L. Parker, U. S. Department of the Interior,
National Park Service Cultural Resources, Washington, D.
C., 1991, Vol. 14: No. 5, pp. U-12.

II5
Smithsonian Institution Traveling
Exhibition Service, SITES

Apt as Activist. New York: Universe/SITES, 1992.

African American Resource Guide. Washington: SITES, 1992.

Fragile Ecologies: Artists’ Interpretations and Solutions. Adventures
for Kids and Families. Washington: SITES, 1992.

The Good, the Bad, and the Cuddly: Attitudes Toward
Animals. Washington: SITES, 1992.

Long Road Up the Hill: African Americans in Congress.
Washington: SITES, 1992.

Perpetual Campaign: The Making of the People’s President.
Washington: SITES, 1992.

Siteline. (SITES newsletter). Washington: SITES, Winter
1991, Number 32.

Songs of My People Resource Guide. Washington: SITES, 1992.

Syncopated Lives: Selected Stories from “Songs of My People”.
Washington: SITES, 1992.

Update, 1992-93 (SITES’ annual catalogue of exhibitions).
Washington: SITES, 1992.

Who's in Charge? Workers and Managers in the United
States. Washington: SITES, 1992.

Education and Public Service

Office of the Assistant Secretary for
Education and Public Service

Office of the Assistant Secretary for Education
and Public Service

Achebe, Chinua. “Martin Luther King, Jr. and Africa.” Keynote
address delivered January 20, 1992 at the Martin Luther King,
Jr. Holiday Celebration, Smithsonian Institution. Washington,
D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1992.

Center for Folklife Programs and
Cultural Studies

Printed Materials

Cadaval, Olivia. “Conocimiento y Poder: La Tierra y las
Culcuras Indigenas Americanas.” In Mis Ojos Vieron .. . Mi
Corazon lo Sabe, edited by Xun Gallo, 15-19. Mexico:
Litografica Turmex.

. “The Festival Never Ends.” Smithsonian Folklife News (3)

(Winter 1992):9. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution.

116

Chen, Vivien. “Celebrating the Year of the Monkey.” Folk/ife
Center News. Washington, D.C.: American Folklife Center,
Library of Congress.

. Children’s Activity Booklet, 1992 Festival of
American Folklife. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian
Institution.

Hunt, Marjorie. “Making the White House Work.” In
Festival of American Folklife Program Book, edited by Peter
Seitel, 98-103. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian
Institution.

Kennedy, Richard. “Soviet-American Folklife Exchange
Program.” Smithsonian Folklife News (3X Winter 1992):6-7.
Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution.

Kurin, Richard. “Festival of American Folklife: Not Just a
Festival.” In Festival of American Folklife Program Book,
edited by Peter Seitel, 7-14. Washington, D.C.:
Smithsonian Institution.

. “Director's Talk Story.” Smithsonian Folklife News
(3 Winter 1992):2-3. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian
Institution.

N'Diaye, Diana and Kenneth Bilby. “Creativity and
Resistance: Maroon Culture in the Americas.” In Festival of
American Folklife Program Book, edited by Peter Seitel, 54-61.
Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution.

. “African Immigrant Project.” Smithsonian Folklife

News (3X Winter 1992):11. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian

Institution.

. “African World Culture and the Concept of Diaspora

Transformative Ideas in the Study of African Cultures, or

"Will the Circle Be Unbroken?’” Wi// the Circle Be

Unbroken? Historical Perspectives on the African Diaspora

conference, February 6-8. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian

Institution.

. “Resistance and Creativity: Maroon Culture in the

Americas.” Conexoes 4(1XMay 1992):9. East Lansing:

Michigan State University.

. “Research in Progress on the African Diaspora.”

Conexoes 3(2X November 1991):8-9. East Lansing: Michigan

State University.

, co-editor. The Arts of Black Folk. New York:
Schomburg Center for Research in Black Cultures.

Parker, Diana. “The 25th Festival.” Smithsonian Folklife News
(3X Winter 1992):4-5. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian
Institution.

Seeger, Anthony. “Folkways Recordings.” Smithsonian Folklife
News (3X Winter 1992):1-3. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian
Institution.

Seitel, Peter, ed. Festival of American Folklife Program Book.
Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution.

Vennum, Thomas Jr. “The Changing Soundscape in Indian
Country.” In Festival of American Folklife Program Book,
edited by Peter Seitel, 81-92. Washington, D.C.:
Smithsonian Institution.

and Guha Shankar. “Smithsonian Folklife Studies
Series: Muharram.” Smithsonian Folklife News (3X Winter
1992):8. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution.

Sound Recordings

An Anthology of African American Poetry for Young People.
Smithsonian/Folkways SF 45044.

Cage, John and David Tudor. Indeterminacy.
Smithsonian/Folkways SF 40804/5.

Caribbean Revels: Haitian Rara and Dominican Gaga.
Smithsonian/Folkways SF 40402.

Drums of Defiance: Maroon Music of Jamaica.
Smithsonian/Folkways SF 40412.

A Fish That's a Song. Smithsonian/Folkways SF 45037.

Louis Moreau Gottschalk American Piano Music, played by
Amiram Rigai. Smithsonian/Folkways SF 40803.

Guthrie, Woody. Nursery Days. Smithsonian/Folkways SF
45035.

Introducing American Folk Music. Accompanies Kip Lornell’s,
Introducing American Folk Music, Brown and Benchmark,
1992. Smithsonian/Folkways Special Product SFSP gooo1.

Jackson, Mahalia. Got To Tell It. Accompanies Jules
Schwerin's, The Life I Sing About: Mahalia Jackson, Talking
and Singing the Gospel, Oxford University Press, 1992.
Smithsonian/Folkways Special Product SFSP 90002.

Jenkins, Ella. African American Folk Rhythms. Smithsonian/
Folkways SF 45003.

. Songs, Rhythms and Chants for the Dance.

Smithsonian/Folkways SF 45004.

. Come Dance by the Ocean. Smithsonian/Folkways SF

45014.

. A Long Time to Freedom. Smithsonian/Folkways SF

45034.

. For the Family (videotape). Smithsonian/Folkways SF
48002.

Mbuti Pygmies of the Ituri Rainforest. Smithsonian/Folkways SF
40401.

Music of Indonesia Vol. 4: Music of Nias and North Sumatra.
Smithsonian/Folkways SF 40420.

Music of New Mexico: Native American Traditions.
Smithsonian/Folkways SF 40408.

Music of New Mexico: Hispanic Traditions.
Smithsonian/Folkways SF 40409.

Navajo Songs. Smithsonian/Folkways SF 40403.

Plains ChippewalMetis Music from Turtle Mountain.
Smithsonian/Folkways SF 404.

Seeger, Peggy. Songs of Love and Politics. Smithsonian/Folkways
SF 40048.

Seeger, Pete. Singalong: Live at Sanders Theater.
Smithsonian/Folkways SF 40026/8.

. American Industrial Ballads. Smithsonian/Folkways
SF 40058.

Spence, Joseph. Joseph Spence: The Complete Folkways Recordings.
Smithsonian/Folkways SF 40066

Van Ronk, Dave. Dave Van Ronk: The Folkways Years 1959-61
Smithsonian/Folkways SF 40041.
Williams, Lucinda. Ramblin’. Smithsonian/Folkways SF 40042.

Office of Elementary and
Secondary Education

Eisendrath, Betsy. “The Survival Game after Columbus: Pigs,
Weeds, and Other Players.” Art to Zoo, October 1991.

. “Life in the "Promised Land’: African-American
Migrants in Northern Cities, 1916 - 1940.” Art to Zoo,
January 1992.

O'Flahavan, Leslie. “Digging Up Dirt: How Paleontologists
Bring Dinosaurs Back to Life.” Art to Zoo, April 1992.

. “Once upon a Rea/ Time: Telling the Stories the Past
Tells Us.” Art to Zoo, September 1992.

Smith, Michelle, and Lonnie Bunch. Protest and Patriotism: A
History of Dissent and Reform. Washington, DC: Smithsonian
Institution Press, 1992.

External Affairs

Office of the Assistant Secretary for
External Affairs

Kirlin, Katherine & Thomas 1991. The Smithsonian Folklife
Cookbook, Smithsonian Institution Press.

Lovejoy, T-E. 1991. Foreword to Environment in Peril (A.B.
Wolbarst, Ed.), Smithsonian Institution Press.

Lovejoy, T.E. 1991. Foreword to Toward Unity among
Environmentalists by B. G. Norton. Oxford Univ. Press.
287 pp.

Lovejoy, T.E. 1991. Biomass burning and the disappearing
tropical rainforest (Chapter 9). Pp. 77-82 in Global Biomass
Burning (J.L. Levine, Ed.). The MIT Press. 569 pp.

Lovejoy, T.E. 1991. Searching for solutions to the dilemma.
Tropical Forests 1(1):1-8.

Lovejoy, T.E. and R.H. Dwight. 1992. Biological diversity and
Neptune's realm. Marine Tech. Soc. J. 25(4):7-12.

Lovejoy, T.E. 1992. Preface to Global Warming and Biological
Diversity (R.L. Peters and T.E. Lovejoy, Eds.), Yale
University Press, New Haven, CT.

Lovejoy, T.E. 1992. The impact of global warming. Pp. 1-5 in
Oxford in North America 2, Earth Summit Preview (J.
Funari and E. Klimas, Eds.), Oxford University
Development (North America), Inc., New York.

117
Lovejoy, T.E. 1992. In praise of biodiversity. Pp. 28-29 in
Environment: The Next Frontier (T. Rubin, Ed.).
U.S.Information Agency, Hearst Special Pubs.

Lovejoy, T.E. 1992. Amazonia: the scientific basis for
conservation. Pp. 21-25 in Conservation de la Selva Amazonica,
Fundacién para el desarrollo de la ciencias fisicas,
matematicas y naturales (FUDECI), Caracas, Venezuela.

Lovejoy, T.E. 1992. Foreword to Ecology and Conservation of
Neotropical Migrant Landbirds (J.M. Hagen and D.W.
Johnston, Eds.) Smithsonian Institution Press, Washington,
D.C. 609 pp.

Lovejoy, T.E. 1992. Foreword to South Carolina's Wetlands
Wilderness: The ACE Basin by T. Blagden, Jr. Westcliffe
Pubs., Inc., Englewood, CO.

Lovejoy, T.E. 1992. Earth’s Living Library: Check It Out,
Op-ed, The Washington Post, 19 March.

Moran, Katy 1991. Actions of the U.S. Congress Toward
Environmentally Sustainable Foreign Assistance. New
Directions in U.S. Foreign Assistance and New Roles for
Anthropologists. J.P. Mason and M.H. Clark, Editors. Dept.
of Anthropology, College of William and Mary:
Williamsburg, VA.

Moran, Katy 1992. Introducing Statistical Testing to Standard
Ethnography: An Example from Elephant Management in
Sri Lanka. Computer Applications for Anthropologists. Margaret
S. Boone and John J. Wood, Editors. Wadsworth: Belmont,
CA.

Moran, Katy 1992. Ethnobiology and U.S. Policy. Sustainable
Harvest and Marketing of Rainforest Products. Mark Plotkin
and Lisa Famolare, Editors. Island Press: Washington, DC.

Peters, R.L. and T.E. Lovejoy. 1991. Terrestrial fauna (Chapter
20). Pp. 353-369 in The Earth as Transformed by Human
Action (B.L. Turner II, W.C. Clark, R.W. Kates, J.E
Richards, J.T. Mathews, and W.B. Meyer, Eds.)

Peters, R.L. and Lovejoy T.E., (Eds.). 1992. Global Warming
and Biological Diversity. Yale University Press, New Haven,
CT. 386 pp.

Wirth, T.E. and T.E. Lovejoy. 1991. John Heinz:
Environmentalist, Op-ed, The Washington Post, 12 April.

Office of Telecommunications

Radio Productions

“Spirits of the Present: The Legacy from Native America” - 13
half-hour programs produced by the Native American
Public Broadcasting Consortium and Radio Smithsonian,
broadcast on 410 stations in North America. This
documentary series about Native American history and
culture looks at the life of today’s Indians.

“Messages from the Grandparents” The centuries-old
unbroken chain of oral traditions which are passed on to
each new generation.

118

“Through Carib Eyes: The Columbus Encounter in the

Caribbean” The perceptions of Carib and Taino Indians
whose ancestors encountered Columbus.

“Battle Lines: Pressures of the Land” Modern-day struggles

over issues of sovereignty.

“Shared Visions: Art, Music, and Literature” Reflections on

cultural continuity by Native American artists, writers,
dancers, and musicians.

“Sustaining Our Communities: Natural Resource

Management” An examination of traditional Indian
farming techniques and natural resource management
practices within various tribal communities.

“Religious Freedom” A look at the legal challenges to

American Indians’ religious freedom.

“America’s Heritage: Preserving Our History” The role of

cultural centers and the new National Museum of the
American Indian in preserving tribal history.

“Traditional Caring: Non-traditional Health Issues”

Confronting contemporary health issues such as diabetes,
alcoholism, and AIDS with traditional healing practices.

“Rebuilding Our Nations” Creative solutions to the problems

of economic development in several Native Nations.

“Education: Becoming a Whole Person” From curriculum

design to preservation of language, Native Americans are
taking control of their own educational systems.

“Cultural Identity” The cultural and social bases for

contemporary Indian identity among the Houma, Lumbee,
and Yaqui.

“Responding to the Quincentennial” A mosaic of Indian views

on the Columbus Quincentenary.

“The Indian in the Global Mind” The global fascination with

Indians, including the use of Indian mascots for non-Indian

sports teams.

“Folk Masters, from the Barns of Wolf Trap,” thirteen one-

hour stereo programs, produced by the Wolf Trap Founda-
tion for the Performing Arts, WETA-FM, and Radio
Smithsonian.

“Carolina House Party: Parlor Picking, Frolic Fiddling, and

Juke Joint Blues” Piedmont blues and parlor tunes sung by
Etta Baker, Pappy Sherrill and his old-time country
stringband, and country blues and electric boogie with
Drink Small.

“There's Twelve Gates to the City: Black Gospel Styles” The

Kings of Harmony brass band from Washington, DC, Sc.
Louis pianist and vocalist Fontella Bass, and the 2 cappella
harmonies of the Birmingham Sunlights from Alabama.

“Masters of the Folk Violin” The late master of Cajun fiddling

Dewey Balfa with Steve Riley, New Mexican-style violin
virtuosity from the Martinez Family, Anglo-Midwestern
fiddling contest champion Kenny Sidle, and the African
American Kansas City jazz sounds of 84 year-old Claude
Williams.

“American Indian Music, Dance and Song from the Desert

and the Tundra” Athabascan fiddler Bill Stevens and the
Nunamta Yupik Eskimo Dancers from Alaska; the
Cellicion Family Zuni Singers of New Mexico, and the
waila music of the Joaquin Brothers Band from Arizona.

“La Isla, La Costa y La Montana: Music from the Spanish
Caribbean and Central America” Mexican marimba music
with Marimba Chiapas, as well as Familia Colon
performing jibaro string music from Puerto Rico, and
accordion dance music of northern Columbia from Ivan
Cuesta y sus Autenticos Vallenatos.

“Guitar Wizards” A concert of old-time country picking with
Wayne Henderson, Hawai’ian slack-key guitar played by
Ledward Kaapana, and the blues and jazz of Robert Jr.
Lockwood.

“African Roots: Watch Night, Bucket Men and the Blues”
The Old World heritage of Georgia Sea Island ritual and
music represented by the McIntosh County Shouters and
the new percussive energy of bucket drummers from the
streets of the District of Columbia, as well as Big Jack
Johnson and the Oilers from Clarksdale, Mississippi.

“Accordion Kings” The Tex-Mex conjunto style of Santiago
Jimenez, Jr. alongside the African French Creole sound of
Louisiana zydeco from Boozoo Chavis for an evening of
accordion squeezing.

“Blues and Bluegrass in the American Capital” Bridging
cultural and generational differences through Virginia
Piedmont Blues with John Cephas and Phil Wiggins, and
the neo-traditional style of Maryland bluegrass and the
Johnson Mountain Boys.

“Europe in America” Multiculturalism embraces European
music as heard in the Tex-Czech sound of Vrazel's Polka
Band, the Croatian strings of Slanina Tamburitza, and the
Irish music with young virtuosos Seamus Egan and Friends.

“Rural Electrification: Rockabilly and Western Swing”
Western swing from the legendary Texas Playboys and
rockabilly from veteran Memphis players, the Sun Rhythm
Section.

“New York Klezmer and New Orleans Jazz” Senior Jewish
performers combine with younger musicians from New
York City to make up Klezmer Plus, and traditional New
Orleans jazz with Dr. Michael White and the Crescent City
Serenaders.

“Best of Folk Masters” Great previously unheard performances
from throughour the concert series.

“Speakers Corner with Roger Mudd” was a weekly one-hour
series co-produced by Radio Smithsonian and the William
Benton Broadcast Project and distributed on 181 stations
from January through June by WFMT Fine Arts Network.
The programs featured scholars and experts from Oxford
University, the University of Chicago, and Resident
Associates Lecture Programs sharing their insights on the
arts and humanities, the sciences, politics, and public
affairs. Smithsonian programs included:

S. Schoenbaum: “Shakespeare through a Magnifying Glass”:
Renowned author and scholar on the Bard, Professor
Schoenbaum takes a look at some of the most recent
scholarship in this area.

Herbert Simon: “Artificial Intelligence”: A Nobel Laureate in
Economics, pioneer of political science, psychology, and
management, and founding father of artificial intelligence,
Simon examines the evolution of “thinking machines,” and
the search for new ideas.

Susan Faludi: “An Undeclared War Against Women?”: This
Pulitzer Prize-winning author examines the image and
treatment of women in American life over the last decade
and the growing backlash against women partly due to the
success of the women’s movement.

Norman Mailer: “Harloc's Ghost”: Prolific author/colorful
personality Mailer reads from his long-awaited novel, a
penetrating look at the American scene since the end of WW II.

Andre Previn: “No Minor Chords”: Academy-Award winning
composer, arranger, and conductor of some of the world’s
leading orchestras, Previn recalls his years in Hollywood in
the 40s, 50s, and 60s.

Abraham Pais: “Physics, Philosophy, and Politics: The Life
and Times of Niels Bohr”: Bohr was a giant among
2oth-century scientists, a Nobel Prize winning physicist in
1922 who participated in experiments leading to the atomic
bomb, but he was also one of the first scientists to
recognize the dangers of atomic weapons and organize
peaceful uses for atomic energy. Abraham Pais, a physics
professor, examines both sides of Bohr's personality.

Martin Gilbert: “Statesman Extraordinaire: The Life of Sir
Winston Churchill": Churchill's biographer addresses the
British PM's strong familial and political ties to America.

Lester Brown: “Saving the Planet”: Founder of the
Worldwatch Institute, which seeks to educate the public
about wasting non-renewable resources and pollution of the
Earth, outlines plans for reversing environmental
degradation and turning economic growth into
environmentally sustainable progress.

Flora David: “The History of the Women's Movement in
America Since 1960": Professor/author David presents an
overview of the women’s movement from the ‘60s to the
‘90s, examining the forces, personalities, victories, and
failures of the crusade that has changed our lives.

“Jazz,” a Radio Smithsonian special broadcast during February to
commemorate Black History Month, featured jazz enthusiast
Julian Bond as host and drew upon performances by the
Smithsonian Jazz Orchestra for its music.

“Indian Airobics,” a “Spirits of the Present” special - A variety
program of humor, music, and story telling, hosted by actress
Elaine Miles and produced by Radio Smithsonian and the
Native American Public Broadcast Consortium, brought
American Indian performers together for a two-hour program
aired on American Public Radio in the fall of 1992.

“Sovereign to Sovereign,” a “Spirits of the Present” special—A
discussion program produced by Radio Smithsonian and
the NAPBC, posing the question of what might have
happened had the European and American governments
parlayed with the Indian tribes as full sovereign nations;
aired on American Public Radio in the fall of 1992.

119
Major Film Production

“Dream Window: Reflections on the Japanese Garden,” a
production of OTC in cooperation with KajimaVision,
Tokyo, premiered on PBS on November 6, 1992.

Exhibition Videos

“American Encounters” - NMAH - Five short videos
including “Pueblo Resistance” (14:14); “Many Voices”
(9:29); “Hispanic Resistance” (11:20); “Matachines Spanish;
Bernalillo” (8:19); and “Matachines Indian; San Juan” (8:01).

“Perpetual Campaign” - NMAH - Two videos including “The
Low Road to High Office” (13:00) and “The People, the
President, and the Court” (8:00)

“Masters of Silver,” a 12-minute video to accompany the
SITES exhibition “English Silver: Masterpieces by Omar
Ramsden,” premiered at The Chicago Art Institute in June,
1992 - the first stop on the exhibition's 12-city tour in the
U.S. and Canada.

“Ancient Japan,” an introduction to the Sackler Gallery of
Art's exhibition of the same title, highlights two distinct
early Japanese cultures: the Jomon and the Yayoi and the
archeological finds that are shedding light on these
societies.

“To Achieve These Rights: The Struggle for Equality and Self
Determination in the District of Co'umbia, 1791-1978,” a
video epilogue, premiered in the exhibition of the same
title at the Anacostia Museum in January, 1992.

Smithsonian Resident Associate Program

Office of the Director

Solinger, Janet W., ed., MPR News published by the Museum
Public Relations Committee, International Council of
Museums (ICOM), Vol. I, Nos. 2 and 3, 1991; Vol. II, No. 1.

Affiliated Organizations

Reading Is Fundamental

RIF Newsletter. Published three times a year, the Newsletter
reports on RIF activities nationwide. A technical assistance
insert, addressing local projects’ requests for information on
how to motivate youngsters to read, is included in
Newsletters sent to RIF projects. The Newsletter reaches
18,000 people throughout the United States and offshore

territories.

120

Nine Million Times a Year. A brochure describing the RIF
organization, its goals, and its programs.

The Fun & Fundamentals of Running a RIF Project. A brochure
outlining the basic details on running a RIF program.

The RIF Handbook: How to Run a Successful Reading Is
Fundamental Project. A technical assistance manual to help
RIF volunteers organize and operate an effective reading
motivation program. Includes an overview of RIF as well as
sections on fundraising, book selection and ordering, and
activities to motivate reading.

“Growing Up Reading” Workshop Guide. This 72-page guide
gives step-by-step instructions on how to conduct a
“Growing Up Reading” workshop for parents.

A Guide to RIF's Family Literacy Programs. An 81-page booklet
providing an overview of various ways RIF programs have
been used to promote family literacy.

“Parent Guide” Brochures. A series of 12 brochures on the topics
“Choosing Good Books for Your Children,” “TV and
Reading,” “Reading Aloud to Your Children,” “Upbeat and
Offbeat Activities to Encourage Reading,” “Teenagers and
Reading,” “Children Who Can Read, But Don't...,”
“Encouraging Soon-To-Be Readers,” “Magazines and
Family Reading,” “Family Storytelling,” “Building a
Family Library,” “Encouraging Young Writers,”
“Summertime Reading.”

The RIF Guide to Encouraging Young Readers. (Doubleday, 1987).
A sourcebook of activities, children’s book suggestions, and
resources for parents.

Reading Is Fun! Tips for Parents. A booklet offering suggestions
on how to encourage children up to the age of eight to read.

When We Were Young: Favorite Books of RIF Kids, RIF Volunteers,
and Readers of Renown. Forty-page list of favorite children’s
books. Includes personal recommendations of some 80
public figures.

Helping Your Children Become Readers/Como Ayudar a Que Sus
Ninos Sean Buenos Lectoers. Available in English or Spanish,
this reproducible, illustrated brochures features 10 reading
tips in simple language.

The Family Facts Book. A 24-page booklet provides a place to
keep important information about your children; also
features tips on raising readers.

Shared Beginnings® Idea Book: Tips and Activities for Young
Families and Their Babies. With an illustrated format
designed to appeal to teenage parents, this publication
features more than 100 ideas for nurturing emergent
language and literacy in infants and toddlers. Includes
rhymes, songs, and fingerplays.

Family of Readers™ Handbook. This publication provides a
group of parents with easy-to-read guidelines for running a
RIF program for their children.

Family of Readers™ Album: Fun Things to Read and Do Together.
This family activity booklet features a collection of ideas,
writing games, and color-in pages that provide creative fun
and also build language and reading skills.
Appendix 6

The Smithsonian Institution and

Its Subsidiaries, September 30, 1992

Office of the
Secretary

The Secretary
Robert McC. Adams
Executive Assistant
James H. Hobbins
Special Assistant
Kathy A. Boi
Special Assistant for
Appointments
Mary Lee Nissley
Supervisor, Secretary's Files
Betty J. Russell
Administrative Specialist
Susan Bradley

Office of the
Under Secretary

Under Secretary

Constance Berry Newman
Executive Assistant

Anna B. Martin
Executive Assistant

Judy Van Rest
Administrative Officer

Luwan Brown

Confidential Assistant
Constance Lykes

Office of the

Inspector General

Inspector General
Thomas D. Blair
Assistant Inspector General for
Investigations
Gerard A. Roy
Assistant Inspector General for
Audits
John C. Fawsett
Administrative Officer

Mary Brough Emond

Office of the

General Counsel

General Counsel
Peter G. Powers
Associate General Counsels
George S. Robinson
Alan D. Ullberg
Assistant General Counsels
Rachelle V. Browne

Ildiko P. DeAngelis
James D. Douglas

Lauryn Guttenplan Grant
Elaine L. Johnston
Marsha S. Shaines
Christine Steiner

James I. Wilson

Office of
Government
Relations

Director
Margaret C. Gaynor
Congressional Liaison Officer
Pablita Abeyta
Congressional Liaison Officer
Claire L. Fronville
Congressional Liaison Officer
Manuel J. Melendez
Congressional Liaison Officer
A. Bradley Mims
Congressional Liaison Specialist
Carey A. Wilkins

Office of Public
Affairs

Director
Madeleine Jacobs
Associate Director
Eileen Jones
Administrative Officer
Carolyn Amundson
Secretary to the Director
Michelle Carr

Publications

Associate Director
Kathryn Lindeman
Staff
Dan Agent
John Barrat
Holly Hammett
Peggy Langrall
David Lewis
Jo Ann Webb
Lilas Wiltshire

News

Associate Director
Linda St.Thomas

Staff
Jacqueline Bouquet
Mary Combs
Natalie Fielman
Rebecca Higbee
David Maxfield
Vicki Moeser
Hamlet Paoletti
William Schulz
Rachel Sears

Sciences

Office of the

Assistant Secretary
for the Sciences

Assistant Secretary
Robert S. Hoffmann
Deputy Assistant Secretary
Ross B. Simons
Executive Officer
Rita R. Jordan
Special Assistants
Ruth O. Selig
Peggy Anderson
Administrative Officer
Joan R. Zavala
Research Assistant
Chris Wozencraft
Program Assistant
Suzanne Pender
Secretaries
Sandra K Blake
Jameen Michelle
Alexander
Jody Pettibone
Senior Scholar
Wilton Dillon
Diving Officer
Michael Lang

I2I
Joseph Henry
Papers

Editor
Marc Rothenberg
Associate Editor
Paul H. Theerman
Assistant Editors
Kathleen W. Dorman
John C. Rumm
Research Assistants
Deborah Y. Jeffries

American Studies
Program

Director

Wilcomb E. Washburn
Secretary

R. Lucille Hamblen

Conservation
Analytical
Laboratory

Director

Lambertus van Zelst
Deputy Director

Alan W. Postlethwaite
Administrative Officer

Vernetta M. Williams
Deputy Administrative Officer

Beverly M. Smith
Coordinator of Education and

Training
Eleanor McMillan

Archaeometry

Assistant Director for
Archaeometry
Jacqueline S. Olin
SARCAR Manager & Senior
Research Archaeologist
Ronald L. Bishop
Research Art Historian
Ingrid C. Alexander

122

Senior Research Chemist
M. James Blackman
Senior Research Physicist
Yu-Tarng Cheng
Metallurgist
Martha E. Goodway
Chemist
Emile C. Joel
Senior Ceramic Sctentist
Pamela B. Vandiver

Conservation
Research

Assistant Director for
Conservation Research
Marion F. Mecklenburg
Head, Analytical Services
Charles S. Tumosa
Electron Microscopist
Melanie T. Feather
Senior Research Organic
Chemists
David W. von Endt
W. David Erhardt
Research Organic Chemist
Mary T. Baker
Organic Chemist
Walter H. Hopwood
Senior Research Photographic
Scientist
Mark H.
McCormick-Goodhart
Research Biochemist
Noreen C. Tuross
Chemist
Camie S. Campbell
Conservation Laboratory
Technician

Jonah Erlebacher

Conservation
Treatment and
Training
Senior Furniture Conservator
Donald C. Williams
Furniture Conservator
Melvin J. Wachoviak
Senior Objects Conservator
Carol A. Grissom
Objects Conservator
Harriet F. Beaubien
Senior Painting Conservator
Roland H. Cunningham

Painting Conservator
Jia-Sun Tsang

Senior Paper Conservators
Dianne van der Reyden
Timothy J. Vitale

Senior Textile Conservator
Mary W. Ballard

Information

Senior Technical Information
Specialist
Marjorie W. Cleveland
Technical Information Specialists
Ann B. N'Gadi
Gail L. Goriesky
Conservator

Mary Lou Garbin

National Museum
of Natural History

Director
Frank H. Talbot
Deputy Director
Stanwyn G. Shetler
Special Assistant to the Director
Maria Ballantyne
Special Assistant to the Deputy
Director
Dianne Niedner
Writer-Editor
Laura Kennedy
Associate Director for
Administration
Mary R. Tanner
Administrative Specialists
Danielle Bielenstein
Les Cauthern
Nella F. Lloyd
Associate Director for Science
Daniel E. Appleman
Associate Director for Public
Programs
Robert D. Sullivan
Associate Director for Special
Progects
Catherine J. Kerby
Associate Director for
Development
T. C. Benson

Development Officer
Anne Parks
Public Information Officer
Thomas R. Harney
Public Affairs Specialist
Pamela Baker
Special Events Coordinators
Judith Cash
Diana K. Wyatt
Director, Biodiversity Program
Don E. Wilson
Project Director, Biological
Dynamics of Forest
Fragments
Richard O. Bierregaard, Jr.
Assistant Director for Collections
Janet Gomon
Registrar
Katherine A. Kilduff
Assistant Director for
Axtomatic Data Programs
T. Gary Gautier
Assistant Director for Education
Laura L. McKie
Physical Plant Administrator
Jerome A. Conlon
Director, NAUNH
Quincentenary Program
Herman J. Viola
Museum Facilities Manager
Edward McCoy
Supervisory Museum Specialist,
Scanning Electron
Microscope Laboratory
Walter Brown

Department of
Anthropology

Chairman
Donald J. Ortner
Deputy Chairman
Melinda A. Zeder
Administrative Specialist
Carole Lee Kin
Public Information Specialist
P. Ann Kaupp
Collections Management

Collections Manager
Deborah Hull-Walski

Conservators
Natalie Firnhaber
Greta Hansen

Senior Research Conservator
Carolyn Rose

Handbook of North

American Indians

Managing Editor

Karla Billups
Administrative Technician

Melvina Jackson
Production Manager

Diane Della-Loggia
Bibliographer

Lorraine H. Jacoby
Linguist

R. H. Ives Goddard, III

Human Studies Film
Archives

Supervisory Museum Specialist
John Homiak

National Anthropological

Archives

Director
Mary Elizabeth Ruwell
Archivists
Kathleen Baxter
Paula R. Fleming
James R. Glenn

Native American
Indian Program

Director
JoAllyn Archambault

Division of Archaeology

Division Head
Dennis J. Stanford
Curators
J. Daniel Rogers
Theresa Singleton
Bruce D. Smith

Gus W. Van Beek
Melinda A. Zeder

Arctic Program

Director

William W. Fitzhugh
Archaeologist

Stephen Loring

Division of Ethnology

Division Head
Mary Jo Arnoldi
Curators
William Crocker
Adrienne Kaeppler
Ivan Karp
Robert Laughlin
William Merrill
William C. Sturtevant
Paul M. Taylor
William Trousdale

Division of Physical
Anthropology

Division Head
Richard B. Potts
Curators
Donald J. Ortner
Douglas W. Owsley
Douglas H. Ubelaker

Department of
Botany

Chairman
Laurence E. Skog
Administrative Specialist
Linda M. Moreland
Senior Botanist
Mark M. Littler
Associate Curators
Pedro Acevedo
Paula T. DePriest
Laurence J. Dorr
Robert B. Faden
Maria A. Faust
W. John Kress
Paul M. Peterson
Elizabeth Zimmer
Curators
Vicki A. Funk

David B. Lellinger
Ernani G. Menez
Dan H. Nicolson
James N. Norris
Joan W. Nowicke
Harold E. Robinson
Stanwyn G. Shetler
Laurence E. Skog
Warren L. Wagner
Dieter C. Wasshausen

Research Associates,

Collaborators, and

Affiliated Scientists
Mones Abu-Asab
Carol Annable
Irwin M. Brodo
Katina Bucher
Loren Coen
Jose Cuatrecasas
Wade Davis
James A. Duke
Melvin R. Duvall
Sylvia A. Earle
Christian Feuillet
Raymond Fosberg
Suzanne Fredericq
Aaron Goldberg
Charles Gunn
Otto Huber
Joseph Kirkbride
Elbert Little
Diane Littler
Ximena Londono
Alicia Lourteig
Susan J. Mazer
Larry E. Morse
Carlos Ochoa
John Pipoly
Thompson Pizzolato
Mark Plotkin
Muriel Poston
Robert Read
Clyde FReed
Velva Rudd
Edward Salgado
Stephen Sharnoff
Sylvia D. Sharnoff
Lyman Smith
Richard Spjut
Bruce A. Stein
William Stern
Phillip Taylor
Edward E. Terrell
Anna Weitzman
John Wurdack

Department of
Entomology

Chairman

Jonathan A. Coddington

Collections Manager

Gary FE. Hevel
Senior Scientist

Karl V. Krombein
Curators

John M. Burns

Jonathan A. Coddington

Don R. Davis
Curators
Terry L. Erwin
Oliver S. Flint, Jr.
Richard C. Froeschner
Wayne N. Mathis
Ronald J. McGinley
Robert K. Robbins
Paul J. Spangler
Research Associates,
Collaborators, and
Affiliated Scientists
David N. Adamski
Joachim Adis
David H. Ahrenholz
Donald W. Anderson
Edward W. Baker
William E. Bickley
Harley P. Brown
Robert W. Carlson
Margaret S. Collins
Gregory W. Courtney
Terhune S. Dickel
Chris H. Dietrich
Eduasdo Dominguez
Lance Durden
Robert L. Edwards
Neal FE. Evenhuis
John H. Fales
Candida Feller
Douglas C. Ferguson
Richard H. Foote
Amnon Freidberg
T. P. Friedlander
Douglas Futuyma
Raymond J. Gagné
Patricia Gentili-Poole
Robert D. Gordon
E. Eric Grissell
Charles E. Griswold
Ralph E. Harbach
Bruce A. Harrison
Thomas J. Henry
Ronald W. Hodges

123
Yiau-Min Huang
James E. Keirans
Gerado Lamas
Paul M. Marsh
Arnold S. Menke
Mary Frances Michevich
Douglass R. Miller
Scott E. Miller
Steve Nakahara
David F. Nickle
Allen L. Norrbom
Paul A. Opler
John D. Oswald
Research Associates,
Collaborators, and
Affiliated Scientists
James Pakaluk
Jacqueline M. Palmer
David Pearson
Philip D. Perkins
Robert V. Peterson
Dan A. Polhemus
John T. Polhemus
Robert W. Poole
John F. Reinert
Mary L. Ripley
Mark J. Rothschild
Louise M. Russell
Curtis W. Sabrosky
Silvia Santiago
Michael E. Schauff
Petra Sierwald
Robert L. Smiley
David R. Smith
M. Alma Solis
Theodore J. Spilman
Charles Staines
George C. Steyskal
Manya B. Stoetzel
F. Christian Thompson
Robert Traub
Katsuji Tsuneki
Natalia Vandenberg
Ronald A. Ward
Richard E. White
Willis W. Wirth
Norman E. Woodley
David Wooldridge
Frank N. Young

124

Department of

Invertebrate Zoology

Chairman
Brian Kensley
Administrative Assistant
Martha V. Joynt
Collections Manager
Patricia L. Nutter
Purchasing Agent
Roland H. Brown

Crustacea

Curators
Frank D. Ferrari
C. W. Hart, Jr.
Robert P. Higgins
Brian Kensley
Louis S. Kornicker
Rafael Lemaitre
Raymond B. Manning

Echinoderms and Lower
Invertebrates

Curators
Frederick M. Bayer
Stephen D. Cairns
David L. Pawson
Klaus Ruetzler

Mollusks

Curators
M. G. Harasewych
Robert Hershler
Richard §. Houbrick
Clyde FE. E. Roper

Worms

Curators
Kristian Fauchald
W. Duane Hope
Jon L. Norenburg
Mary E. Rice

Registry of Tumors in
Lower Animals

Director
John Harshbarger

Research Associates,

Collaborators, Emeritus
Zoologists, and Affiliated
Scientists
Richard B. Aronson
Sigurd V. Boletzky
Thomas E. Bowman
J. Bruce Bredin
Fenner A. Chace, Jr.
Steven Chambers
Sing Chen Chang
Elizabeth Chornesky
Roger E Cressey
Maureen E. Downey
Joan D. Ferraris
Stephen J. Gardiner
Terrence M. Gosliner
Horton H. Hobbs, Jr.
John Holsinger
Lipke B. Holthuis
Peter Hovingh
Michael Lang
J. Ralph Lichtenfels
Patsy McLaughlin
Charles G. Messing
John E. Miller
Richard T. O'Grady
Isabel Perez-Farfante
(Canet)
Esther C. Peters
Richard E. Petit
Marian H. Pettibone
Donald C. Potts

Anthony J. Provenzano, Jr.

Marjorie L. Reaka
Harald A. Rehder

Research Associates,

Collaborators, Emeritus
Zoologists, and Affiliated
Scientists
Janet W. Reid
Donald W. Sada
I. G. Sohn
James D. Thomas
Ronald B. Toll
Michael Vecchione
Geerhart J. Vermeij
Austin B. Williams
David K. Young

Department of
Mineral Sciences

Chairman
Jeffrey Post
Administrator
Ellen Thurnau

Meteorites

Curator

Roy S. Clarke, Jr.
Associate Curator

Glenn J. MacPherson
Associate Curator

Michael A. Wise

Petrology and Volcanology

Curators
Richard S. Fiske
James F. Luhr
William G. Melson
Tom Simkin
Associate Curator
Sorena Sorensen

Physical Sciences
Laboratory

Chemists
Eugene Jarosewich
Joseph A. Nelen
Electronics Technician
James E. Collins

Scientific Events
Alert Network

Research Associates,
Collaborators, and
Affiliated Scientists

Felix Chayes
Howard T. Evans, Jr.
Michael Fleischer
Brian H. Mason

Department of
Paleobiology

Chairman
Jack W. Pierce
Administrative Assistant
Betty M. Lomax
Acting Collections Manager

Jann W. M. Thompson

Paleobiological Information
Specialist

Raymond T. Rye II

Supervisor, Vertebrate
Paleontology Preparation
Laboratory

Frederic V. Grady

Sensor Scientists

Richard H. Benson
Martin A. Buzas
Alan H. Cheetham
Richard E. Grant
Daniel J. Stanley
Kenneth M. Towe
Geologist

Ian G. Macintyre

Curators

Anna K. Behrensmeyer
William A. DiMichele
Robert J. Emry
Nicholas Hotton III
Francis M. Hueber
Jack W. Pierce

Clayton E. Ray
Thomas R. Waller
Scott L. Wing

Associate Curators

Douglas H. Erwin
Brian T. Huber
Conrad C. Labandeira

Research Associates,

Collaborators, Emeritus

Curators, and Affiliated

Scientists
Jean M. Berdan
Raymond L. Bernor
Annalissa Berta
Richard S. Boardman
Robyn Burnham
G. Arthur Cooper
Stephen J. Culver
John D. Damuth
Sherri L. DeFauw
Daryl! P. Domning
Raymond C. Douglass
J. Thomas Dutro, Jr.
Ralph E. Eshelman
Jerzy Federowski
Karl W. Flessa
Thomas G. Gibson
Mackenzie Gordon, Jr.
Peter J. Harmatuk
Robert W. Hook

Scort E. Ishman
Porter M. Kier
Carl E Koch
Paul L. Koch
Sergius H. Mamay
Jerry N. McDonald
John D. Milliman
Robert B. Neuman
William A. Oliver, Jr.
John Pojeta, Jr.
Research Associates,

Collaborators, Emeritus
Curators and Affiliated

Scientists
Kenneth A. Rasmussen
Douglas S. Robertson
Kenneth D. Rose
Bruce Runnegar
William J. Sando
David Schindel
Judith Skog
Anthony Socci
Norman F. Sohl
I. Gregory Sohn
George D. Stanley, Jr.
Steven M. Stanley
Hans-Dieter Sues
Joshua I. Tracey, Jr.
Arthur D. Wart
Frank C. Whitmore, Jr.
Debra A. Willard
Christopher Wnuk
Ellis L. Yochelson

Department of
Vertebrate Zoology

Chairman

Richard W. Thorington,

Je.
Administrative Assistant
Sybil Descheemaeker

Technical Information Specialist

Joy P. Gold

Division of Amphibians
and Reptiles

Curators
W. Ronald Heyer
George R. Zug
Assistant Curator
Kevin de Queiroz
Collections Manager
Elyse J. Beldon
Ronald I. Crombie

Division of Birds

Curators
Storrs L. Olson
Richard L. Zusi
Associate Curators
Michael J. Braun
Gary R. Graves
Collections Manager
J. Phillip Angle

Division of Fishes

Curators
G. David Johnson
Victor G. Springer
Richard P. Vari
Stanley H. Weitzman
Associate Curator
Lynne R. Parenti
Zoologist
Wayne C. Starnes
Collections Managers
Susan L. Jewett
Jeffrey T. Williams

Division of Mammals

Curators
Michael D. Carleton

Charles O. Handley, Jr.

James G. Mead

Richard W. Thorington,

Je.
Collections Managers
J. Phillip Angle
Charles W. Potter

Office of the Secretary

Emeritus

Secretary Emeritus
S. Dillon Ripley
Administrative Assistant

Mary T. Pacaro

Research Associates,

Collaborators, Emeritus
Curators and Affiliated

Scientists
Ronald G. Altig
Richard C. Banks
Aaron M. Bauer
Jonathan J. Becker
Bruce M. Beehler

Heraldo A. Britski
Eleanor Brown
Robert L. Brownell
John E. Cadle
Peter Cannell
Bruce B. Collette
Kenneth C. Dodd, Jr.
Louise H. Emmons
Carl H. Ernst
Sara V. Fink
William L. Fink
Mercedes S. Foster
Thomas H. Fritts
Alfred L. Gardner
J. Whitfield Gibbons
Catherine A. Hawks
Lawrence R. Heaney
Miriam H. Heyer
Richard Highton
Regina M. Hirsch
Robert S$. Hoffmann
Aleta Hohn
Peter W. Houde
Morton L. Isler
Phyllis R. Isler
Ernest A. Lachner
Roxie Laybourne
John M. Legler
Research Associates,
Collaborators, Emeritus
Curators and Affiliated
Scientists
Antonio Machado-Allison
Francisco Mago-Leccia
Joe T. Marshall, Jr.
Linda R. Maxson
Roy W. McDiarmid
Bruce D. Means
Naercio A. Menezes
Ronald I. Miller
Joseph C. Mitchell
Thomas A. Munroe
Guy G. Musser
Hidetoshi Ota
William F. Perrin
Gregory K. Pregill
John E. Randall
Mary Rauchenberger
Sentiel A. Rommel
Alan H. Savitsky
Albert Schwartz
Norman J. Scott
Darrell Seibert
Andrew C. Smart
Michael L. Smith

125
William F. Smith-Vaniz
David L. Stein

Ian R. Swingland
William R. Taylor
Stephen G. Tilly
Merrill Varn

Richard J. Wassersug
Marilyn Weitzman
Edward O. Wiley
Timothy R. Williams
W. Chris Wozencraft

Smithsonian Marine
Station at Link Port

Director
Mary E. Rice

Administrative Assistant
Joan L. Kaminski

Research Assistants
William D. Lee
Julianne Piraino
Sherry Anne Reed
Hugh F. Reichardt

Marine Systems
Laboratory

Director
Walter H. Adey

Laboratory of
Molecular Systematics

Director
Michael J. Braun
Administrative Assistant
JoAnne Ciprich
Principle Investigator
Elizabeth A. Zimmer
Scientific Program
Administrator
Judith A. Blake
Molecular Research Biologist
David Swofford

Repatriation Office

Acting Program Director
Thomas W. Killioa
Program Assistant
Marjorie R. Wilkov
Case Officers
Timothy G. Baugh
Tamara L. Bray

126

Physical Anthropologist
John W. Verano

Museum Support
Center

Director
U. Vincent Wilcox
Administrative Specialist
Patti B. Young
Data Administrator
Joan B. Andrews
Facility Manager
Charles E. Dunn
Chief, Information Management
Section
David Bridge

National
Zoological Park

Director
Michael H. Robinson
Registrar
Judith Block
Associate Director for Biological
Programs
Benjamin B. Beck
Associate Director for Facilities
and Administration
Gretchen Gayle Ellsworth
Associate Director for
Interpretive Programs
David M. Jenkins
Associate Director for
Conservation
Christen M. Wemmer

Animal Exhibit
Departments

Department of
Mammalogy

Curator
Edwin Gould
Associate Curator
John Seidensticker
Collection Managers
Edward Bronikowski
John Lehnhardt

Lisa Stevens
William Xanten

Department of Herpetology

Curator
Dale Marcellini
Collection Manager
Michael Davenport

Department of Ornithology

Assistant Curator and Head
Charles Pickett
Collection Manager
Paul Tomassoni

Department of
Invertebrates

Curator
Jaren Horsley
Collection Manager
Alan Peters

NZP Commissary

Manager
Mary Allen

Zoological Research

Assistant Director for Research
Devra G. Kleiman
Deputy Head, Research
Mammalogist
Miles S. Roberts
Scientific Staff
Daryl J. Boness
Robert Fleischer
Eugene S. Morton
Olav T. Oftedal
Katherine S. Ralls
Population Manager
Jonathan Ballou
Research Associates
Perry Barboza
Kim C. Derrickson
Wolfgang P. J. Dittus
John M. Francis
Theodore I. Grand
Carlos Ruiz-Miranda
Alfred Rosenberger

Postdoctoral Fellows
Sabine Loew
Marta Hertzik
Ethan Temeles
Richard Wagner
Tan G. Warkentin

Animal Health

Assistant Director for Animal
Health
R. Mitchell Bush
Hospital Administrator
Scott Citino
Head, Reproductive Physiology
Program
David E. Wilde
Research Veterinarian
Steve L. Monfort
Reproductive Physiologist
Janine L. Brown

NOAHS Center

Director
Ruth Stolk
Research Associates
Ann Byers
Robert Davis
Ann M. Donoghue
JoGayle Howard
William FE Rall
Terri Roth
William Swanson
Lisa Tell
Sam Wasser

Department of
Pathology

Pathologist-in-Charge
Richard J. Montali

Associate Pathologist
Donald Nichols

Research Associates
Richard Alsaker
Max J. G. Appel
Chris Gardiner
Kathryn Holmes
John Pletcher
John Strandberg
Anton Steuer
Bernard Zook
Facilities and
Administration

Office of Facilities
Management

Assistant Director for
Maintenance and
Construction

David Boothe

Office of Management

Services

Head
James E. Fitzpatrick

Office of Police and

Communications

Head
George P. Day, Jr.

Safety Office

Head
Kenneth R. Gilliam

Interpretive Services

Associate Director for
Interpretive Programs
David M. Jenkins

Office of Public Affairs

Chief
Robert J. Hoage

Office of Education

Chief
Judith White

Office of Development

Head
Dan Studnicky

Office of Design and
Exhibits Planning

Chief
Virginia A. Mahoney

Department of
Conservation

Associate Director for
Conservation
Christen M. Wemmer
Deputy Associate Director
Scott R. Derrickson
Research Coordinator
John H. Rappole
Conservation Training Officer
R. Rudran
Collection Manager
Larry Collins
Postdoctoral Fellows
Lisa G. Sorenson
Kevin Winkler
Research Associates
Joel Berger
John Frazier
Charles McDougal
William McShea
Brian Miller
Dale Miquelle
Georg Schwede
Michael Stiiwe
Richard Tenaza

Friends of the
National Zoo

Executive Director
Clinton A. Fields

Deputy Director
James Schroeder

Smithsonian
Migratory Bird
Center

Director
Russell Greenberg

Office of

Environmental
Awareness

Director
Judith Gradwohl
Program Specialist
Leonora Sheeline
Program Assistant
Beth Nalker
Program Assistant
Jodi Mendel

Office of
Fellowships and
Grants

Director
Roberta W. Rubinoff
Assistant Director
Elizabeth W. Veatch
Administrative Officer
Catherine FE. Harris
Academic Program Specialists
Bruce W. Morrison
Sharon K. Nishizaki
Program Assistants
Tracy Caisse
Marika Carley
Pamela Hudson

Office of the

Registrar

Director
Mary Case
Assistant to the Director
William G. Tompkins
Administrative Assistant
A. Paulette Hughes
Collections Information
Administrator
Vacant

Smithsonian
Astrophysical
Observatory

Director

Irwin Shapiro
Associate Directors
Planning

Bruce Gregory
Atomic and Molecular Physics

Kate Kirby
High Energy Astrophysics

Stephen Murray
Optical and Infrared Astronomy

John P. Huchra
Planetary Sciences

Brian G. Marsden
Radio and Geoastronomy

Mark J. Reid
Solar and Stellar Physics

John C. Raymond
Theoretical Astrophysics

Alastair G.W. Cameron
Department Managers
Central Engineering

Richard B. Dias
Computation Facility

Van L. McGlasson
Contracts and Procurement

George D. Dick
Controller's Office

Robert T. Ayer
Library

Donna Coletti
Human Resources

Marion R. Aymie
Publications

James Cornell
Science Education

Phil Sadler
Travel

Nancy M. Adler
Scientific Staff

Yakov Alpert

Alice L. Argon

Eugene H. Avrett

James Babb

Robert W. Babcock

Sallie L. Baliunas

Mary Barsony

Mark Birkinshaw

Eric E. Bloemhof

Raymond Blundell

Jay A. Bookbinder

127
Gerald Bottrell
James Boyle

Donato Bramanti
Nancy Brickhouse
Roger J.V. Brissenden
Nelson Caldwell
Nathaniel P. Carleton
Frederic H. Chaffee
Kelly V. Chance
John F. Chandler
Jon H. Chappell
George Chartas
Allan F. Cook, IT
Andrew Cooksy
Mario L. Cosmo
Salvador Curiel
Alexander Dalgarno
Thomas M. Dame
James L. Davis
Robert J. Davis

Seth Digel

Marino Dobrowolny
Adam Dobrzycki
John Dubinski
Andrea K. Dupree
Guenther Eichhorn
Martin S. Elvis

Paul Eskridge

Ruth Esser

Robert D. Estes
Giuseppina Fabbiano
Daniel G. Fabricant
Emilio E. Falco-Acosta
Ron Farren

Giovanni Fazio
George B. Field
Fabrizio Fiore
Kathryn Flanagan
Craig Foltz

Christine Jones Forman
William R. Forman
Fred A. Franklin
Marijo Franx

Franco Fuligni

Gary Fuller

Terrance J. Gaetz
Michael R. Garcia
Larry D. Gardner
John C. Geary
Margaret J. Geller
Owen J. Gingerich
Isabella M. Gioia
Dalia Goldwirth-Piran
Leon Golub

Paul Gorenstein

128

Dale E. Graessle
Lincoln J. Greenhill
Mario D. Grossi
Gordon E. Gullahorn
Shadia R. Habbal
F. Rick Harnden, Jr.
Daniel E. Harris
Lee Hartmann
Akihiko Hashimoto
Donald Hassler
Paul T.P. Ho
Robert Hohlfeld
Paul Hsieh

John P. Hughes
Atac Imamoglu
Paul Jaminet

Diab Jerius

David Johnson
Kenneth W. Jucks
Kenneth Kalata
Wolfgang Kalkofen
Thomas Kane
Margarita Karovska
Edwin M. Kellogg
Almus Kenter
Scott Kenyon

Eric Keto
Dong-Woo Kim
Steven C. Kleiner
John L. Kohl
Bon-Chul Koo
Sylvain Korzennik
Koenraad Kuijken
Michael Kurtz
Robert Kurucz
Mark Lacasse
Charles J. Lada
Elizabeth A. Lada
Adair Lane

David W. Latham
Mark Lawrence
Myron Lecar
Martin Levine
Robert Lewis

Alan Lightman

A. Edward Lilley
Enrico Lorenzini
Jane Luu

Shude Mao

Ursula Marvin
Colin Masson
Smita Mathur
Edward Mattison
Alessandro Massarotti
Michael McCarthy

Jeffrey E. McClintock
Richard E. McCrosky
Jonathan C. McDowell
Gary J. Melnick

Karl Menten
Alejandra Milone
Arun Misra

Bijoy Misra

Jerry Mitrovica
Vadilal Modi

James M. Moran, Jr.
Marc A. Murison
Jonathan Murray
Philip C. Myers
Martin Noecker
Robert W. Noyes
Vancura Olaf

Costas Papaliolios
William H. Parkinson
Michael R. Pearlman
Leandros Perivolaropoulos
Michail Petaev
James D. Phillips
Philip Pinto

Preethi Pratap
Andrea Prestwich
Francis A. Primini
Charles Prosser
Harrison Radford
Michael Ratner
Somak Raychaudhury
Robert D. Reasenberg
Cordula Robinson
George B. Rybicki
Steven H. Saar
Dimitar Sasselov
Jonathan Schachter
Rudolph Schild
Matthew H. Schneps
Timothy Scholz
Daniel A. Schwartz
Joseph Schwarz

Tony Scott

Frederick D. Seward
Aneta Siemiginowska
Andrew Silber
Patrick O. Slane
Noam Soker
Anthony Stark

John R. Stauffer
Robert Stefanik
Robert Stern

Leonard Strachan, Jr.
Andrew Szentgyorgyi
Harvey Tananbaum

Patrick Thaddeus
Eric V. Tollestrup
Edward Tong
Guillermo Torres
Wesley A. Traub
Ginevra Trinchieri
Wallace H. Tucker
Han Uitenbroek
Adriaan van Ballegooijen
Leon P. Van Speybroeck
Robert EC. Vessot
George A. Victor
Jan Vrtilek

Saega Dil Vrtilek
Ronald Walsworth
Trevor Weekes
Steven Weinberg
Heinz Weiser

Fred L. Whipple
Barbara A. Whitney
Charles A. Whitney
Belinda Wilkes
Steven P. Willner
Mark Wolfire

John A. Wood
Diana M. Worrall
Insu Yi

Kouichi Yoshino
Min Su Yun

Ping Zhao

Martin Zombeck

Smithsonian
Environmental
Research Center

Director
David L. Correll
Assistant Director
Anson H. Hines
Administrative Officer
Helen M. Dalaski
Facilities Manager
Paul F. Tavel
Education Specialist
A. Mark Haddon
Docent Coordinator
Linda M. Chick
Animal Ecologists
Joseph Dineen
Richard Everett
Edwin Grosholz
William Jaeckle
Paul R. Jivoff
James F. Lynch
Daniel Niven
Kevin Peters
Daniel R. Petit
Gregory M. Ruiz
Chemical Ecologists
Bi Shuping
Richard Smucker
Environmental Engineers
Gary Peresta
Steven Saito
Peter Stone
Ecologists
Thomas E. Jordan
Geoffrey G. Parker
Microbial Ecologists
D. Wayne Coats
Charles L. Gallegas
Jacques White
Modelers
Janet M. Coffee
Donald E. Weller
Plant Ecologists
Martin Cipollini
Hanne Rasmussen
Timothy Spira
Lisa K. Wagner
Dennis F Whigham
Plant Physiologists
Bert G. Drake
Guy Thompson

Smithsonian
Institution Archives

Director
William W. Moss
Associate Archivists
Alan L. Bain
William A. Deiss
Diane L. Vogt-O’Connor
Historian
Pamela M. Henson
Assistant Archivists
William E. Cox
Susan W. Glenn
R. Shawn Johnstone
James A. Steed

Smithsonian
Institution
Libraries

Director
Barbara J. Smith
Deputy Director
Vija L. Karklins
Assistant Directors
Bonita D. Perry
Nancy E. Gwinn
Mary A. Thomas
Special Assistant to the Director
and Publications Officer
Nancy L. Matthews

Planning and
Administration
Division
Assistant Director and Division
Head
Mary Augusta Thomas
Administrative Officer
Laudine L. Creighton

Systems and
Technical Services
Division
Deputy Director and Division
Head
Vija L. Karklins

Systems Department

Department Head
Thomas Garnett

Assistant Systems Administrator
Marcia Adams

Systems Librarian
Anne Gifford

Computer Equipment Analyst
Mimi Scharf

Automated Bibliographic
Control Department

Department Head
Victoria Avera
Bibliographic Control Librarian
Vacancy

Catalogue Records
Department

Department Head
Sheila Riley

Catalogue Records Librarian
Thomas Baker

Original Cataloguing
and Indexing
Department

Department Head
Helen Nordberg
Librarian-Cataloguers
Margaret A. Sealor
Margaret D'Ambrosio
Carolyn Hamilton
Special Collections Cataloguer
Diane Shaw

Research Services
Division
Assistant Director and Division

Head
Bonita D. Perry

Cooper-Hewitt
Museum Branch

Branch Librarian
Stephen Van Dyk

Center for
Astrophysics Branch

Branch Librarian
Donna Coletti

Smithsonian Tropical
Research Institute Branch

Branch Librarian
Vielka Chang-Yau

Central Research Services

Department

Central Reference and
Loan Services

Department Head and Branch
Librarian
Martin A. Smith
Reference Librarian
Vacancy
Senior Reference Librarian
Catherine D. Scott
Circulation and Loan Librarian
Patricia Lasker

Museum Reference Center

Branch Librarian
Sylvia Churgin

Museum Support Center
Branch

Branch Librarian
E. Gilbert Taylor
Reference Librarian
Angela N. Haggins

History, Technology,
and Art Department

National Museum of
American History Branch

Department Head and Branch
Librarian
Rhoda S. Ratner
Reference Librarians
Bridget Mathews
James Roan

Anacostia Museum Branch

Branch Librarian
Timothy Carr

National Museum of
African Art Branch

Branch Librarian
Janet L. Stanley

129
National Air and Space
Museum Branch

Branch Librarian

David M. Spencer
Reference Librarians

Amy E. Levin

Paul McCutcheon
Technical Information Specialist

Philip D. Edwards

National Postal Museum
Branch

Branch Librarian
Vacant

Horticulture Branch

Branch Librarian
Susan R. Gurney

Reference Librarian
Marca Woodhams

Natural and Physical
Sciences Department

National Museum of
Natural History Branch

Department Head and Branch
Librarian
Ann M. Juneau
Reference Librarians
Robert J. Skarr
David T. Steere, Jr.
Reference Librarian (Acting)
Alvin R. Hutchinson

Anthropology Branch

Branch Librarian
Mary Kay Davies

Botany Branch

Branch Librarian
Ruth E Schallert

National Zoological Park
Branch

Branch Librarian
Kay A. Kenyon

130

Smithsonian
Environmental Research
Center Branch

Branch Librarian

Angela N. Haggins

Collections
Management Division

Assistant Director and Division
Head
Nancy E. Gwinn

Acquisitions Services
Department
Department Head

Pauline T. Lesnik

Assistant Librarian
Lucien R. Rossignol

Special Collections
Department

Dibner Library Branch

Department Head, Branch
Librarian, and
Exhibitions Officer

Ellen B. Wells

Reference Librarian

Leslie Overstreet

Preservation Services
Department
Department Head

Susan F. Blaine

Book Conservation

Laboratory
Conservator

Janice Stagnitto

Historian Emeritus

Silvio A. Bedini

Research Associate

Jean Chandler Smith

Smithsonian
Institution Man
and Biosphere
Biological
Biodwersity
Program

Director

Francisco G. Dallmeier
Program Specialist

Luis E. Tassara

Smithsonian
Tropical Research
Institute

Director
Ira Rubinoft
Deputy Director
Anthony G. Coates
Assistant Director for
International and
Exdernal Affairs
Elena Lombardo
Assistant Director for Marine
Research
John H. Christy
Assistant Director for
Terrestrial Research
Alan P. Smith
Conservation Resources Manager
Gilberto Ocafia
Executive Officer
Leonor Motta

Accounting Office

Accounting Officer
Carlos Urbina

Budget Office

Budget Analyst
Leopoldo Leén

Human Resources
Office

Personnel Management Specialist
Carmen Sucre

Procurement Office

Supervisor, Contract Specialist
Mercedes Arroyo

Office of
Development

Development Officer
Lucy Dorick

Washington Office Coordinator
Mary Ann Lindgren

Office of Education

and Conservation

Information Specialist
Georgina de Alba

Office of Facilities
Management

Facilities Manager
Carlos Tejada

Protocol Office

Protocol Officer
Ménica Alvarado

Visitor Services Office

Visitor Services Manager
Gloria Maggiori

Scientific Staff

Senior Scientists
Jeremy B.C. Jackson
Olga F Linares
Martin H. Moynihan
A. Stanley Rand
Mary Jane West-Eberhard
Staff Scientists
Annette Aiello
Eldredge Bermingham
Richard G. Cooke
Paul Colinvaux
Richard Condit
Mireya Correa
William G. Eberhard
Robin Foster
Llewellya Hillis
Nancy Knowlton
Egbert G. Leigh, Jr.
Harilaos Lessios
Dolores Piperno
D. Ross Robertson
David W. Roubik
Noris Salazar Allen
Neal G. Smith
Nicholas Smythe
Donald M. Windsor
Klaus Winter
S. Joseph Wright
Center for Tropical Forest
Science members
George Angehr
Peter Ashton
Richard Condit
Stephen Hubbell
James LaFrankie
Theodore Panayotou
Oil Spill Project Scientists
Norman Duke
Hector Guzman
Brian Keller
Research Associates
Robin Andrews
Peter Ashton

Carlos Arellano Lennox

Tomas Arias
Gordon M. Burghardt
Luis D’Croz

Philip DeVries
Stanley Heckadon
Stephen P. Hubbell
Anthony Ranere
Myra Shulman
Robert Stallard
Henry Stockwell
Melvin Tyree

Arts and

Humanities

Office of the
Assistant Secretary
for the Arts and
Humanities

Assistant Secretary
Tom L. Freudenheim
Deputy Assistant Director
Claudine K. Brown
Program Manager
Barbara K. Schneider
Program Analyst
Patricia Bonds
Program Analyst
Thomas J. Peyton
Director, Experimental Gallery
Kimberly Camp
Smithsonian Institution
Accessibility Coordinator
Janice Majewski
Special Assistant
Jane Glaser

National African
American Museum
Project

Project Director
Claudine K. Brown

Anacostia Museum

Director
Steven Cameron Newsome
Deputy Director
Sharon A. Reinckens
Assistant Director for
Education and Outreach
Zora Martin Felton
Acting Chief, Research and
Curatorial Affairs
Portia P. James
Administrative Officer
Cynthia B. Smith

Assistant to the Director
Louis Hicks

Public Affairs Specialist
Valerie Smith Madden

Registrar
Lauri Hinksman

Archives of
American Art

Director
Richard J. Wattenmaker
Deputy Director
Susan Hamilton
Assistant Director for Archival
Programs
James B. Byers
Curator Emeritus and Journal
Editor
Garnett McCoy
Curator of Manuscripts
Arthur J. Breton
Research Services Chief
Judith E. Throm
Southeast Regional Collector
Elizabeth S. Kirwin
Membership Manager
Nancy Palubniak
New York Regional Director
Stephen Polcari
New England Regional Director
Robert F. Brown
Midwest Regional Program
Director
Judith A. Gustafson
West Coast Regional Director
Paul J. Karlstrom

Freer Gallery of
Art/Arthur M.
Sackler Gallery

Director
Milo C. Beach

Executive Assistant to Director
Toni Lake

Public Affairs

Department Head
Susan Bliss
Assistant Director,
Administration
Sarah Newmeyer

Special Events

Department Head
Patricia Bragdon

Development

Department Head
Laurel Muro

Photography

Department Head
John Tsantes

Museum Shops

Department Head
Rosaria Guaragna
Assistant Director, Public
Programs
Patrick Sears

Design and
Installation

Department Head
John Zelenik

Education

Department Head
Lucia Pierce

Facilities

Department Head
Robert Evans

Assistant Director, Research

and Collections

Thomas Lentz
(anticipated EOD
9-24-92)

131
Conservation and
Scientific Research

Department Head
W. T. Chase

Historian

Historian
Esin Atil
Curators
Thomas Lawton
Fu Shen
M. Shreve Simpson
Jenny So
Ann Yonemura
Linda Merrill
Ann Gunter
Carol Bolon
Louise Cort
Jan Stuart

Library and Archives

Department Head
Lily Kecskes

Publications

Department Head
Karen Sagstetter

Collections
Management

Registrar
Eleanor Radcliffe
Bruce Young

Cooper-Hewitt
Museum

Director
Dianne H. Pilgrim
Assistant Director for
Administration
Linda Dunne

Assistant Director for Programs

Andrew Pekarik

Special Assistant to the Director

Caroline Mortimer

132

Program Specialist

Nerissa Tackett _
Computer Specialist

Jay Vanatta
Assistant Computer Specialist

John Corbo
Business Office Manager

Belynda Roebuck
Accounting Technician

Florence Lewis
Membership & Special Events

Manager

Michele Raphoon
Museum Shop Manager

Matt Hahn
Operations Manager

Barry Johnson
Public Information

Arthur Lindo
Registrar

Cordelia Rose
Security

Luis Palau

Curatorial

Curator of Decorative Arts
David McFadden

Assistant Curator of Decorative

Arts
Deborah Shinn

Curator of Drawings and Prints

Marilyn Symmes

Assistant Curator of Drawings

and Prints
Gail Davidson
Paper Conservator
Konstanze Bachmann
Curator of Textiles
Milton Sonday
Assistant Curator of Textiles
Gillian Moss
Textiles Conservator
Lucy Commoner
Assistant Curator of
Wallcoverings
Joanne Warner

Curator of Contemporary Design

Ellen Lupton

Exhibitions
Curator of Exhibitions
Dorothy Globus

Exhibition Researcher
Lucy Fellowes

Editorial

Editor
Nancy Aakre

Library

Librarian
Stephen Van Dyk

Education
Department

Head of Education
Susan Yelavich
Program Coordinator for School
Programs
Dorothy Dunn
Program Coordinator for
Audience Development
Deirdre Scott
Program Coordinator for Adult
Education
Egle Zygas
Special Project Assistant
Laurie McGavin
Bachmann

Photo Services

Brad Nugent

Plant Services

Director
Tom Murdy

Hirshhorn Museum
and Sculpture
Garden

Director

James T. Demetrion
Deputy Director

Stephen E. Weil
Administrator

Beverly L Pierce

Chief Curator
Neal Benezra
Curators
Amada Cruz
Valerie J. Fletcher
Frank B. Gettings
Phyllis D. Rosenzweig
Judith K. Zilczer
Publications Manager
Barbara J. Bradley
Librarian
Anna Brooke
Chief Conservator
Laurence Hoffman
Conservators
Leland Aks
A. Clarke Bedford
Susan Lake
Registrar
Douglas Robinson
Chief, Exhibits and Design
Edward Schiesser
Chief, Education
Edward Lawson
Public Information Officer
Sidney Lawrence
Photographer
M. Lee Stalsworth
Building Manager
Frank Underwood

Institutional

Studies Office

Director
Zahava D. Doering
Senior Social Science Analyst
Robert D. Manning
Social Science Analyst
Adam Bickford
Statistician
Steven J. Smith
Social Science Analyst
Elizabeth K. Ziebarth
Social Science Analyst
Audrey E. Kindlon
Survey Operations Specialist
Thelassa W. Skinner
Social Science Technician
Ann R. Ziebarth
International
Gallery

Director
Eileen Rose
Associate Director
Anne R. Gossett
Program Coordinator
Susan Arshack

National Air and
Space Museum

Director
Martin Harwit
Associate Director
Wendy Stephens
Special Assistant to the Director
Steven L. Soter
Special Assistant to the
Associate Director
Gary Roth
Senior Advisor for Science
Ted A. Maxwell

Department of
Aeronautics

Chairman
Tom Crouch
Deputy Chairman
Dominick A. Pisano
Curators
Dorothy Cochrane
R.E.G. Davies
Von D. Hardesty
Peter Jakab
Russ Lee
Richard Leyes
Michael Neufeld
Frank van der Linden
Emeritus, Historian
Paul E. Garber
Assistant Emeritus, Historian
E.T. Wooldridge
Special Advisor for Technology
Howard Wolko

Center for Earth and
Planetary Studies

Chairman

Thomas R. Watters
Geophysicist

Ted A. Maxwell
Geologists

Patricia Jacobberger

James Zimbelman

Robert Craddock

Michael Tuttle
Geophysicist

Bruce Campbell
Program Manager

Priscilla Strain
Geographer

Fred Engle

Development Office

Development Officers
Susan Beaudette
Anne Seeger

Special Events Division

Coordinators
Darlene Rose-Barge
Kathie Spraggins

Department of
Space History

Chairman
Gregg Herken
Curators
Paul E. Ceruzzi
Martin Collins
David DeVorkin
Cathleen S. Lewis
Valerie Neal
Allan A. Needell
Frank Winter
Historian
Robert W. Smith

Laboratory for
Astrophysics

Chairman
Howard A. Smith
Astrophysicists
Jeffrey J. Goldstein
Matthew Greenhouse

Department of
Interpretive Programs

Assistant Director

James H. Sharp
Cooperative Programs Division
Manager, Cooperative Program

Helen C. McMahon
Education Division
Special Assistant

Ellen Sprouls
Minority Outreach Division
Special Assistant

M. Antoinette Amos
Planetarium
Director

James H. Sharp

Department of Art

Chairperson
Mary S. Henderson

Office of

Communications

Office of Public Affairs
J. Michael Fetters

Office of Publications
Patricia Graboske

Department of
Collections
Management

Assistant Director
Linda N. Ezell
Archives Division
Supervisory Archivist
Thomas Soapes
Conservation Unit
Conservator
Ed McManus
Collections Maintenance
Division
Chief
Al Bachmeier
Preservation/Restoration
Division
Acting Foreman
William Reese
Office of the Registrar
Registrars
Ellen Folkama
Natalie Rjedkin

Department of
Administration

Administrative Officer
Alice M. Adams

Administrative Specialist
Theresa A. Cecil

Budget Analyst
Cynthia Carter

Department of
Exhibits

Assistant Director

Nadya A. Makovenyi
Program Manager

Sandy Rittenhouse-Black
Editor

David Romanowski

Audiovisual Unit

Supervisory Electronics
Technician
David N. Heck

Production Unit

Supervisory Exhibits Specialist
Derek P. Fiedler

Film and Video Production
Patricia A. Woodside

Department of
Museum Operations

Assistant Director
Ronald Wagaman
Deputy Assistant Director
LeRoy London
Special Assistant for Plans and
Programs
Claude D. Russell
Department of Building
Management
Museum Facilities Manager
Ida Cleckley
Computer Services Division
Manager, Computer Services
Vacant
Samuel P. Langley Theater
Theater and Planetarium
Operations Manager
Bridget Shea

133
National Museum
of African Art

Director
Sylvia H. Williams
Associate Director for
Collections and Research
Roy Sieber
Assistant Director
Patricia L. Fiske
Chief Curator
Philip L. Ravenhill
Curators
Lydia Puccinelli
Roslyn A. Walker
Public Affairs Officer
Janice L. Kaplan
Curator of Education
Edward Lifschitz
Chief, Exhibits Department
Alan Knezevich
Assistant Registrar
Molly Grimsley
Conservator
Steve Mellor
Curator of Photographic
Archives
Christraud M. Geary
Librarian
Janet Stanley
Writer/Editor
Dean Trackman
Founding Director Emeritus
and Senior Scholar
Warren M. Robbins

National Museum
of American Art

Director

Elizabeth Broun
Deputy Director

Charles J. Robertson
Development Officer

Florence K. Miller

Curatorial Office

Chief Curator
Virginia M. Mecklenburg

134

Curators
Richard N. Murray
Harry Rand
William P. Truettner
Janet A. Flint
Joann G. Moser
Merry A. Foresta
Associate Curators
Robin L. Bolton-Smith
George Gurney
Jacquelyn D. Serwer
Lynda R. Hartigan
Maricia Battle
Collections Researcher
Gwendolyn F. Everett
Sentor Conservator
Stefano Scafetta
Conservators
Ann M. Creager
R. Quentin Rankin, Jr.
Fern L. Bleckner
Catherine I. Maynor
Helen B. Ingalls

Renwick Gallery

Curator-in-Charge
Michael W. Monroe

Associate Curator
Jeremy E. Adamson

Exhibitions Coordinator
Ellen M. Myette

Research and Scholars
Center

Acting Chief
Rachel M. Allen
Research Curator
Lois M. Fink
Intern Program Officer
Patricia H. Chieffo
Librarian
Cecilia H. Chin
Research Databases Coordinator
Christine Hennessey
Image Collections Coordinator
Joan R. Stahl

Office of Educational
Programs

Acting Chief
Nora M. Panzer

Special Audience Coordinator
Margaret P. Cogswell
Education Specialist
N. Faye Powe

Office of Registration
and Collections
Management

Registrar
Melissa L. Kroning
Associate Registrar
Abigail Terrones
Assistant Registrar
Michael R. Smallwood

Office of Design and
Production

Chief
Val E. Lewton
Designer
Claire Larkin
Supervisory Exhibits Specialist
Anthony R. Giuffreda
Senior Exhibits Specialist
Robyn L. Kennedy
Preparation Coordinator
Martin J. Kotler

Office of Publications

Chief

Steve Dietz
Senior Editor

Lisa C. Siegrist
Editor

Richard E. Carter

Administrative Office

Administrative Officer
Maureen E. Damaska

Administrative Assistant
James R. Gaglione

Office of External
Affairs

Chief
W. Robert Johnston
Assistant Chief
Barbara M. Cox
Acting Public Affairs Officer
David M. Maxfiel

Office of Facilities
Management

Facilities Manager
Wayne L. Wiggins

National Museum
of American
History

Office of the Director

Director
Roger G. Kennedy
Acting Deputy Director
Spencer Crew
Associate Director
Ronald E. Becker
Assistant Director for
Administration
Elizabeth E. Greene
Assistant Director for
Curatorial Affairs
Lonnie Bunch
Administrative Specialist
Shirley Vann
Special Assistants
Naomi Glass
James D. Whoolery

Office of External
Affairs

Director
Marilyn Lyons
Public Affairs
Susan Foster
Special Events
Elizabeth Little
Bee Gee Thompson

National
Numismatic
Collection

Executive Director
Elvira Clain-Stefanelli
Deputy Executive Director
Cory C. Gillilland
Curator

Richard Doty
National Postal
Museum

Executive Director
James H. Bruns

Afro-American
Communities Project

Director
James 0. Horton

Archives Center

Chief Archivist
John Fleckner
Deputy Archivist
Robert Harding
Archivists
Craig Orr
Barbara Humphrys
David Haberstich
Marilyn Graskowiak
Reuben Jackson
Historian
Fath Davis Ruffins

Office of Building
Management

Building Manager
Richard A. Day

Computer Services
Center

Chief
Dennis S. Dickinson

Division of
Conservation

Head Conservator
J. Scott Odell
Conservators
Andrzej Dajnowski
Antoinette Dwan
Lynne Gilliland
Nikki Horton
Beth Richwine
Suzanne
Thomassen-Krauss
Paulette Willman

Department of
Exhibits

Assistant Director for Exhibits
and Public Spaces
J. Michael Carrigan
Deputy Assistant Director for
Exhibits and Public Spaces
Richard J. Nicastro
Chief, Design Division
Harold E. Aber
Chief, Exhibits Production
Robert H. Norton
Chief, Historic Restoration
Terrence Conable

Department of Public
Programs

Assistant Director for Public
Programs
Lonn Taylor
Deputy Assistant Directors for
Public Programs
Elizabeth Sharpe
Harold Closter
Director, Program in African
American Culture
Niani Kilkenny
Director, Division of Museum
Programs
Dwight Blocker Bowers
Director, Publications Division
Robert D. Selim
Coordinator, Columbus
Quincentenary Program
Lisa Falk
Intern Program Coordinator
Mary Dyer

Office of the Registrar

Assistant Director for
Collections Management
Martha Morris
Assistant Registrar
Katherine P. Spiess

Office of Academic

Programs

Director

Gary Kulik

Department of the
History of Science
and Technology

Acting Chairman
Edward C. Ezell

American Indian Program

Director
Rayna Green

Division of Agriculture
and Natural Resources

Curators
Pete Daniel
G. Terry Sharrer

Division of Armed
Forces History

Curators
Edward C. Ezell
Donald E. Kloster
Harold D. Langley
Historian
James Hutchins
Curator Emeritus
Philip Lundeberg

Division of Biological
Sciences

Curators
Patricia Gossel
Linda Tucker

Division of Computers,
Information, and
Society

Curators
David Allison
Jon B. Eklund

Division of Electricity
and Modern Physics

Curators

Bernard Finn
Paul Forman

Division of Engineering
and Industry

Curators
Carlene E. Stephens

Steve Lubar
Jeffrey Stine

Division of Medical
Sczences

Curators
Ramunas A. Kondratas
Audrey B. Davis

Division of Physical
Sciences

Curators
Deborah J. Warner

Division of Transportation

Curators
Paul Johnston
William L. Withuhn
Curator Emeritus
John H. White

Senior Historian’s Office

Senior Historian
Nathan Reingold

Technology and Culture

Editor
Robert Post

Department of Social
and Cultural History

Acting Chairman
Anne Golovin

Afro-A merican
Index Project

Program Specialist
Sule Greg Wilson

Division of Ceramics

and Glass

Curator
Susan H. Myers

Division of
Community Life
Curators

Charles McGovern

Richard E. Ahlborn
Bernice Johnson Reagon

135
Division of Costume

Curator

Claudia B. Kidwell
Curator Emeritus

Anne W. Murray

Division of Domestic Life

Curators
Rodris C. Roth
Barbara C. Smith

Division of Graphic Arts

Curators
Elizabeth M. Harris
Helena C. Wright

Division of Musical
History

Curators
James Weaver
John T. Fesperman
John E. Hasse
Cynthia A. Hoover

Division of Photographic
History

Curator

Eugene Ostroff

Division of Political
History

Curators
Keith E. Melder
William L. Bird, Jr.
Edith P. Mayo
Curator Emeritus

Margaret B. Klapthor

Division of Textiles

Curator

Rita J. Adrosko

136

National Museum
of the American

Indian

Washington, D.C.

Director

W. Richard West, Jr.
Deputy Director

Douglas Evelyn
Assistant Director for Public

Programs

Rick Hill, Sr.
Congressional Liaison

Pablita Abeyta

New York City

Assistant Director

Duane King
Exhibitions

Peter Brill
Film & Video

Elizabeth Weatherford
Education

Judy Brundin
Resource Center

Martha de Montano
Associate Curator

Mary Jane Lenz
Conservator

Marian Kaminitz
Photo Archivist

Sharon Dean
Registrar

Lee Callander
Administrative Officer

Tamara Levine

National Portrait

Gallery

Director
Alan Fern
Deputy Director
Carolyn K. Carr
Associate Director for
Administration
Barbara A. Hart

Curator of Painting and
Sculpture
Robert G. Stewart
Curator of Exhibitions
Beverly J. Cox
Curator of Prints
Wendy Wick Reaves
Acting Curator of Photographs
(to June 16, 1992)
Ann Shumard
Curator of Photographs
(appointed June 16, 1992)
Mary C. Panzer
Curator of Education
Harry Jackson
Editor of Publications
Frances K. Stevenson
Chief, Design and Production
Nello Marconi
Keeper, Catalog of American
Portraits
Linda Thrift
Editor of the Charles Willson
Peale Papers and
Historian of American
Culture
Lillian B. Miller
Librarian
Cecilia Chin
Senior Photographer
Rolland White
Registrar
Suzanne Jenkins
Public Affairs Officers
Sue Ann Prince (to
September 1, 1992)
Brennan Rash
Facilities Manager
Wayne Wiggin

Office of Exhibits
Central

Director
John Coppola

Administrative Unit

Administrative Officer
Eva M. Clark

Production Unit

Assistant Director
Walter G. Sorrell
Supervisor, Model Shop
Benjamin Snouffer
Supervisor, Fabrication Shop
Kenneth R. Clevinger

Design, Editing and
Graphics Unit

Acting Assistant Director
Kenneth V. Young
Supervisor, Graphics Shop
Patricia M. Burke

Office of Museum
Programs

Director
Rex M. Ellis
Deputy Director
Teresa K. LaMaster
Administrative Officer
Eleanor Coombs
Administrative Assistant
Pamela J. Blalock
Research Program Manager
Nancy J. Fuller
Curriculum Manager
Alyce Sadongei
Curriculum Planner
Gayle Edmunds
Curriculum Programs
Coordinator
Bettie J. Lee
Curriculum Programs Assistant
Cheryl Wilson
Professional Services Program
Manager
Bruce C. Craig
Intern Services Coordinator
Esther Washington
Intern Programs Assistant
Sarah Landon
Office of
Quincentenary
Programs

Director
Alicia M. Gonzalez
Deputy Director
Jewell S. Dulaney
Program Coordinator
Luis E. Tassara
Program Specialist
Dennis Medina
Executive Officer
Audrey Archer

Smithsonian
Institution
Traveling
Exhibition Service,
SITES

Director

Anna R. Cohn
Deputy Director

Lori W. Alperin
Administrative Manager

Allegra Wright

Programs

Associate Director
Myriam Springuel

Scheduling and
Exhibitor Relations

Director
Kelli Roberts Brya

Public Relations
Director

Liz Hill
Publications

Director
Andrea Stevens

Education and
Public Service

Office of the

Assistant Secretary
for Education and
Public Service

Assistant Secretary
James Early
Administrative Officer
Linda Solomon
Executive Assistant
Margaret Bertin
Program Specialist
Manjula Kumar
Administrative Specialist
Toni Brady
Budget Analyst
Arleen McClain
Secretaries
Jenelle Cooper
Ainsley Foulds
Special Assistant for Applied ~
Research
Dave Warren

Center for Folklife
Programs and

Cultural Studies

Director
Richard Kurin
Special Assistant/Assistant
Secretary Emeritus
Ralph Rinzler
Director, Smithsonian/Folkways
Recordings
Anthony Seeger
Senior Folklorist
Peter Seitel
Senior Ethnomusicologist
Thomas Vennum, Jr.
Festival Director
Diana Parker
Director, Quincentenary Projects
Olivia Cadaval

Administrative Officer
Barbara Strickland
Program Analyst
Richard Kennedy
Folklorists
Vivien Chen
Diana N'Diaye
Research Associates
Marjorie Hunt
Frank Proschan
Nicholas Spitzer
Designer
Joan Wolbier
Technical Coordinator
Pete Reiniger
Program Specialists
Carla Borden
John Franklin
Arlene Reiniger
Archivist
C. Jeffrey Place
Media Specialist
Guha Shankar
Folkways Specialist
Dudley Connell
Assistant Archivist
Lori Taylor

National Science

Resource Center

Executive Director
Douglas M. Lapp
Deputy Director
Sally G. Shuler
Executive Administrative
Assistant
Gail Greenberg
Senior Project Assistant
Charmane Beverly
Financial Officer
Karen Fusto

Associate Financial Officer

Diane Mann
Director of Publications

Kathleen S. Johnston

Writer/Editor
Lynn Miller
Publications Technology
Specialist
Catherine Corder

Illustrator
Max-Karl Winkler
Publications Assistant
Heidi M. Kupke
Director of Information
Dissemination
Patricia McClure
Director of Outreach
Olive Covington
Outreach Program Associate
Elizabeth J. Olivolo
Program Assistant
Catherine Harris
Director of the Science and
Technology for Children
(STC) Project
Joe H. Griffith
Research Specialists, STC
Project
Wendy R. Binder
Debby Deal
David T. Hartney
Patricia L. McGlashan
Katherine E. Stiles
Program Assistant
Laura Pierce

Office of

Elementary and
Secondary

Education

Director
Ann Bay
Deputy Director for
Administration
Thomas E. Lowderbaugh
Director for Program
Development
Janice Nall
Publications Director
Michelle Smith
Coordinator, Teacher Services
Clare Cuddy
Coordinator, Outreach to
Underserved Audiences
Maria del Rosario Basterra
Coordinator, Programs with the
D.C. Public Schools
Maria Marable

137
Intern Coordinator
John Henderson
Program Assistant
Evelyn Reese
Administrative Assistant
Mary Williams

Wider Audience
Development
Program

Director
Marshall J. Wong
Program Assistant
Andrea Yangas
Intern

Brian Armstrong

External
Affairs

Office of the
Assistant Secretary
for External
Affairs

Assistant Secretary
Thomas E. Lovejoy
Deputy Assistant Secretary

Marc J. Pachter
Program Assistant

Katy Moran
Administrative Office

Debbie Yang

Office of

International
Relations

Director
Francine C. Berkowitz

138

Assistant Director
Brian W. J. LeMay
Administrative Officer
Saundra A. Thomas
International Liaison Officers
Leonard P. Hirsch
Judy Rodgers Johnson
International Exchanges Officer
Raymond W. Seefeldt
International Museum Services
Project Director
James E. Sims

Office of Conference

Services

Acting Director
Francine Berkowitz

Conference Coordinator
Devon Brown

Office of Special

Events

Director
Barbara Spraggins
Assistant Director
Vacant
Special Events Coordinators
Edmund B. Anderson
Anne Blattberg
Cheryl Gibney
Mary Thomson
Secretary
Angela Papa

Office of

Telecommunications

Director
Paul Johnson
Deputy Director
Karen Loveland

Media Project Development
Specialist
Elizabeth Brownstein
Motion Picture Production
Specialist
John W. Hiller
Audio/Visual Production
Specialists
John P. Meehan
Lee W. Cioffi
Laura Schneider
Peter R. C. Erikson
Jacqueline Gales Webb
Jean B. Quinnette
Marketing & Promotion
Manager
Denise Freeland
Marketing Assistant
Martha Knouss
Radio Production Specialists
Wesley Horner
John Tyler
Administrative Officer
Charlotte Brown
Administrative Assistant

vacant

Smithsonian
Institution Press

Director
Felix Lowe
Deputy Director
Vincent MacDonnell
Financial Manager
John Ouellette
Marketing Director
Gail Grella
Administrative Officer
Dorothy Blaska

University Press
Division
Editorial Director
Daniel Goodwin
Managing Editor
Ruth Spiegel
Managing Editor, Series
Publications
Barbara Spann

Production Manager
Kenneth Sabol

Design Manager
Alan Carter

Book Development Editor
Caroline Newman

Video Acquisition Director
Andrew Ferguson

Smithsonian Books
Division
Editor-in-Chief

Patricia Gallagher

Senior Editor
Alexis Doster III

Recordings Division

Executive Producer
Bruce Talbot

Smithsonian
Magazine

Editor
Don Moser
Illustrations Editor
Caroline A. Despard
Board of Editors
Constance A. Bond
Jim Doherty
Timothy Foote
Marlane A. Liddell
Sally Scott Maran
Edgar Rich
Nancy Seaman
John P. Wiley, Jr.
Publisher
Ronald C. Walker
Associate Publisher, Advertising
Thomas H. Black
Associate Publisher, Circulation
John O'Donnell
Associate Publisher,
Administration
Carey O. Randall
Circulation Director
Adeline Sherr
Director of Production
E. Cherry Doyle
Consultant to the Magazine
Edward K. Thompson
Publisher Emeritus
Joseph J. Bonsignore
Founding Editor and Publisher
Edward K. Thompson

Air &
Space/Smithsonian
Magazine

Editor
George C. Larson
Managing Editor
Tom Huntington
Picture Editor
Lee Battaglia
Sentor Editor
Linda Musser Shriner
Departments Editor
Patricia Trenner
Publisher
Ronald C. Walker
Advertising Director
Louis C. Kolenda
Circulation Director
Gale Page
Associate Publisher,
Administration
Carey O. Randall
Business Manager
Shelia Perry-Brannum
Production Manager
Sarah D. Kingsley
Publisher Emeritus
Joseph J. Bonsignore

Smithsonian
National Associate
Program

Direstor
Joseph Carper
Assistant Director for Programs
and Marketing
Stephen J. Pike

Contributing
Membership/James
Smithson Society/
Young Benefactors

Program Manager
Fern Segerlind
Study Tours and Seminars
Program Manager
Barbara S. Tuceling
Deputy Program Manager
Prudence Clendenning

U.S. and

International Events

Acting Program Manager
Ann Post

Research Expeditions

Program Manager
Charlene James-Duguid

Smithsonian
Resident Associate
Program

Director

Janet W. Solinger
Special Assistant to the Director

Cheryl Ann Lytle
Associate Director for

Administration

Michael Cassidy

Associate Director for
Programming

Edmund H. Worthy, Jr.
Program Managers

Roslyn C. Beitler

Anna Caraveli

Joanne Gigliotti

Jacqueline H. Grazette

Moya B. King

Marcus L. Overton

Michael A. Caplin

Susan Lee Swarthout
Acting Program Manager

Penelope Pigott Dann
Program Coordinators

Faye Browning

Thomas Crain
Penelope Pigott Dann
Margo Del Vecchio
Karen M. Gray
Editor
Cecelia Reed
Assistant Editor
Reed Isbell
Public Affairs Officer
Joan Cole
Membership and Registration
Manager
Dennis R. Smoot
Assistant Membership and
Registration Manager
Claudette E. Moore
Assistant Registration Manager
Xenia Sorokin Arnelle
Financial Manager
Crystal Pruitt Fleary
Volunteer Coordinator
Susan R. Mond Carpenter

Visitor Information
and Associates’
Reception Center

Director
Mary Grace Potter
Deputy Director
Elizabeth Bennett

Information Resource
Division
Unit Manager

Jane Gardner

Public Inquiry Mail
and Telephone
Information Service
Unit
Unit Manager

Katherine Neill Ridglev

7-Day Information
Service Unit

Unit Manager
Sherrie Chapman

Behind-the-Scenes
Volunteer Program

Program Coordinator
Catherine Morris

Telephone
Information Service

Program Coordinator
Cordelia Benedict

Central Services

Program Coordinator
Sheila Harris

Institutional
Initiatives

Office of the

Assistant Secretary
for Institutional
Initiatives

Assistant Secretary

Alice Green Burnette
Special Assistant

Daniel K. Stevenson
Program Manager

Lois A. Noack

National Museum
of the American
Indian National
Campaign Office

National Campaign Director
John L. Colonghi
Assistant Director for Public
Relations and Special
Events
Susannah Kellems

139
Assistant Director for
Foundation and Corporate
Relations

Johleen Nester

Program Manager

Ernestine Potter

Special Assistant for

Community Relations
Cheryl Ray

Office of

Development

Director
Marie Mattson
Assistant Director for
International and
Institutional Development
Activities
Diana D. Duncan
Assistant Director for
Corporations and
Foundations
Nancy Fischer
Assistant Director for
Individual Giving
Donna Barnard Ari
Information Manager
Margo H. Knight

Finance and
Administration

Office of the

Assistant Secretary
for Finance and
Administration

Assistant Secretary
Nancy D. Suttenfield
Deputy Director for Finance
Rick R. Johnson
Deputy Director for
Administration
D.J. (Jack) Hall

140

Executive Assistant
Betty Lathern
Special Assistant
Aileen E. Wakefield
Ombudsman
Chandra Heilman

Office of
Accounting and
Financial Services

Comptroller
Shireen L. Dodson
Deputy Comptroller
Robert A. Mills

Operations

Manager
Phillip F Norton

Financial Analysis
and Reporting

Manager
Elard J. Phillips

Financial and Payroll
Systems

Manager
Edward J. Balloctta

Office of
Architectural
History and
Historic
Preservation

Director
Cynthia R. Field
Keeper of the OAHP “Castle”
Collection
Richard E. Stamm

Historic Preservation Specialist

Amy Ballard
Architectural Historian
Heather P. Ewing

Business
Management Office

Business Manager
Joseph Chmelik
Director, Museum Shops
Edward Sullivan

Director, Mail Order
John Giesecke
Acting Director, Product
Development and Licensing
Hannah Mullin
Concessions Manager
Roland Banscher

Office of
Contracting and
Property
Management

Director
Robert P. Perkins
Deputy Director
John W. Cobert
Federal and Trust Contracting
Division Manager
Lynn R. Spurgeon
Procurement Division Manager
Helen L. Donaldson
Administration, Program
Analysis and Property
Management Division
Manager
Robert J. Lewin
Revenue, Concessions, and
Business Activity
Contracting Division
Manager
Ronald EF. Cuffe

Office of Design
and Construction

Director
Robert P. Dillman
Associate Director
William L. Thomas
Acting Chief, Project
Management
Donald W. Dormstetter
Chief, Planning, Programming,
and Budget
Harry J. Rombach
Acting Chief, Project and
Construction Management
Loren D. Raap
Acting Chief, Engineering and
Design
Thomas P. Myers
Chief, Support
Laura O. Hoing

Office of
Environmental
Management and

Safety

Director
F. William Billingsley

Environmental
Management Division

Division Chief
Rachel L. Gregory

Safety Division

Division Chief

Walter G. Bailey

Fire Protection
Division
Division Chief

J. Andrew Wilson
Office of Equal
Employment and
Minority Affairs

Director
Era L. Marshall
Complaints Program Manager
Robert L. Osborne
Special Assistant to the Director
McKinley Harris
Affirmative Action Program
Manager
Carol Gover
Special Emphasis Program
Manager
Angela Roybal

Office of Facilities

Services

Director
Richard L. Siegle
Program Manager
(Organization and
Development)
Mary Anne Valentine
Program Manager (Finance)
Ellen W. Miller
Education Specialist
Aimes L. Hill

Office of Financial
and Management
Analysis

Director
Michael D. Merson
Assistant Director for
Financial Analysis
Fran C. Rooney
Assistant Director for Policy
Administration
Jack D. Zickafoose
Assistant Director for Operations
Iris A. Thomas

Office of Human
Resources

Director
Marilyn S. Marton
Assistant Director, Operations
Division
Bernice B. Abram
Assistant Director, Policy
Division
vacant

Office of

Information
Resource
Management

Director
Vincent J. Marcalus
Associate Director for
Administration
Betty Beuck Derbyshire
Assistant Director for
Technology Assessment
and Quality Assurance
John J. Wilson
Manager, Computer Systems
Management Division
George A. Anderson
Manager, Management
Information Systems
Division
Francis J. Bennett
Manager, Information Resources
Division
E. Evanne Browne
Manager, Collections
Information Systems
Division
Susan J. McFarland
Manager, Communications
Management Division
John L. Moreci
Manager, Research Systems
Division
Joseph L. Russo
Manager, Information
Management Division
Rae L. Thompson

Manager, SIBIS Division
Beverly Westermeyer

Financial Manager
Betsey Woods

Office of Plant
Services

Director
Michael R. League
Deputy Director
Michael J. Sofield

Computer Services

Chief
Michele L. Thatcher

Administrative
Services

Chief
Judith A. Cooper

Safety

Chief
H. M. Newberry
Assistant Director, Engineering
and Support Services
Lawrence J. Stuebing, Jr.

Support Division

Chief
C. W. Arthur, Jr.

Material Management
Branch

Chief
Thomas J. Bellino

Transportation Branch

Chief
Robert Marshall

Audio Visual Branch

Chief
Carole Bellamy

Mail Services Branch

Chief
Levonia Stancil

Metro Support Branch

Chief
A. C. Clark

Engineering Division
Chief
Howard L. Wink, Jr.

Work
Coordination/Inspection
Branch

Chief
Vacant

Facilities Computer
Operations Branch

Chief
Patrick M. O’Neal

Energy Management
Branch

Chief
Robert Weisman
Engineering Branch

Chief
Forrest Andrews
Assistant Director, Physical
Plant Services
William M. Adams

Crafts Division
Chief
John W. Libby, Jr.

Crafts/Trades Branch

Chief
Robert Davis

Operations Division

Chief
Harry I. Goodman
Operations Area I

Chief
Donald A. Pierce

Operations Area II

Chief.
William McPhatter

Operations Area III

Chief
Robert E. Pine, Sr.

Office of Planning
and Budget

Acting Director
Mary J. Rodriguez
Assistant Director for Federal
Compliance and Reporting
Mary J. Rodriguez
Assistant Director for
Formulation and
Execution
Richard S. Haas
Assistant Director for Planning
Vacant

Office of Printing
and Photographic
Services

Director/Curator
Jim Wallace
Deputy Director
Lorie H. Aceto
Production Control Officer
Mary Ellen McCaffrey

Special Assignments/
Photography Branch

Chief
Richard Hofmeister

142

Laboratory Branch

Chief
Edes F. Talman

Services Branch

Chief
Joyce M. Goulait

NASM Branch

Chief
Mark Avino

NMNH Branch

Chief
Victor Krantz

Color Branch

Chief
Joe A. Goulait

Duplicating Branch

Chief
Herman Thompson

Office of Protection
Services

Director
Dr. Charles A. Hines
Associate Director
“Management”
G. Clifford Boocks
Associate Director “Operations”
Thomas H. Bresson

Protection Division

Chief
Ronald J. Colaprete

Security Services
Division
Chief

Vacant

Security Systems
Division
Chief

Warren J. Danzenbaker

Health Services
Division
Medical Officer

Vacant

Employee Assistance
Program

Manager
Verdine Frederick

NYC Security
Operations

Chief
Luis A. Palau

STRI Security

Chief
Alejandro Arze

Parking Office

Manager
John W. Bausch

OPS Supply

Supply Officer
James D. Fox

Office of Risk

Management

Acting Director
Jacqueline C. Young
Disaster Preparedness
Coordinator
Priscilla A. Terry
Risk Management Analyst
Katherine Tkac
Claims Assistant
Nancy Lewis

Office of Sponsored
Projects

Director
Ardelle G. Foss
Grant/Contract Administrator
Karen L. Otiji
Assistant Director, Growth
Management
J. Scott Robinson
David R. Short
Assistant Director, Financial
Management
Frantz S. Colon
Grant/Contract Financial
Analysts
Delores Clyburn
Leni Figueiras
Kathleen Hindle
Indirect Cost/Analyst
Ernest L. Duncan Jr.
Administrative Officer
Mary Ann Shelton
Office Assistant
Connie E. Compton

Travel Services

Office

Director
Judith Petroski

Office of the

Treasurer

Treasurer

Sudeep Anand
Affiliated

Organization

The John F.
Kennedy Center for
the Performing Arts

Chairman
James D. Wolfensohn
Managing Director
Lawrence J. Wilker

National Symphony
Orchestra

Executive Director
Stephen Klein

General Manager
Richard B. Hancock

National Gallery
of Art

President
John R. Stevenson

Office of the Director

Director
Earl A. Powell III
Deputy to the Director
Carol W. Murphy
Executive Assistant
Angela LoRé

Office of the Deputy
Director

Deputy Director
Roger Mandle
Mellon Senior Curator
Andrew C. Robinson
Senior Curator of Paintings
and Curator of Modern
Paintings
Charles Moffett

Curator of American and
British Paintings and
Deputy Senior Curator of
Paintings

Nicolai Cikovsky

Curator of Northern

Renaissance Painting
John O. Hand

Curator of Southern Renaissance

Painting
David O. Brown
Curator of Northern Baroque
Painting
Arthur K. Wheelock
Curator of Southern Baroque
Diane DeGrazia

Curator of Twentieth-Century

Art
Jack Cowart

Curator of Sculpture and

Decorative Arts

C. Douglas Lewis
Curator of Old Master Prints

H. Diane Russell

Curator of Old Master
Drawings

Margaret Morgan Grasselli
Curator of Modern Prints and
Drawings
Ruth Fine
Curator of Photography
Sarah Greenough

Head, Department of
Curatorial Records and
Files

Nancy Yeide

Head, Department of Loans
and the National Lending
Service

Stephanie Belt

Chief Registrar

Sally Freitag
Registrar of Collections
Mary Suzor
Chief of Conservation
Ross M. Merrill

Chairman, Department of

Painting Conservation
David Bull

Head, Department of Paper

Conservation
Shelley Fletcher

Head, Department of Object

Conservation
Shelley Sturman

Head, Department of Tesciles
Conservation
Julia Burke
Head, Scientific Research
Department
René de la Rie
Head, Loans & Exhibitions
Conservation
Mervin Richard
Chief of Exhibitions Program
D. Dodge Thompson
Senior Curator, Chief of Design
Gaillard F. Ravenel
Executive Librarian
Neal T. Turtell
Curator of Photographic
Archives
Ruth Rowe Philbrick
Editor-in-Chief
Frances Smyth
Chief of Visual Services
Richard Amt
Head of Education
Linda Downs
Head, Adult Programs
Department
Lynn Russell
Head, Department of Education
Exhibition Programs
Susan Arensberg
Head of Education Resources
Ruth R. Perlin
Head, Teacher and School
Programs
Kathleen Walsh Piper

Office of External
Affairs

External Affairs Officer
Joseph J. Krakora
Assistant to the Director for
Special Events
Genevra Higginson
Press and Public Information
Officer
Ruth Kaplan
Corporate Relations and
Venture Programs Officer
Elizabeth Carbone Perry
Development Officer
Laura Fisher
Assistant to the Director for
Music
George Manos

Chief of Horticulture
Donald Hand

Office of the
Secretary-General
Counsel

Secretary-General Counsel
Philip C. Jessup, Jr.
Deputy Secretary-General
Counsel
Elizabeth A. Croog
Chief of Gallery Archives
Maygene Daniels

Center for Advanced
Study in the Visual
Arts

Dean

Henry A. Millon
Associate Dean

Steven A. Mansbach
Associate Dean

Therese O'Malley

Office of the Treasurer

Treasurer

Daniel Herrick
Deputy Treasurer

Ann R. Leven
Comptroller

Dale Rinker

Office of the
Administrator

Administrator

Anne B. Evans
Deputy Administrator

Darrell Willson
Personnel Officer

Michael B. Bloom
Chief of Protection Services

Jay Chambers
Gallery Architect

James M. Grupe
Chief, Publications Sales

R. Keith Webb

143
Reading Is
Fundamental, Inc.

Chairman of the Board
Mrs. Elliot Richardson
President
Ruth Graves
Director of Finance
Christina Mead
Director, Resource Coordination
Azie Taylor Morton
Director, Systems, Computer,
and Support Operations
Don Perron
Director of Development
Wade Sc. Clair
Director of Special Progects
Nancy Sullivan
Director of Programs
James Wendorf
Finance Officer
Oriente Arzadon
Senior Writer/Editor
Gail Oerke
Deputy Director, Programs
Victoria J. Heland

The Woodrow
Wilson
International

Center for Scholars

Director
Charles Blitzer
Deputy Director
Samuel F. Wells, Jr.
Deputy Director for Planning
and Management
Dean W. Anderson
Librarian
Zdenek V. David
Director of External Affairs
Moira E. Egan
Director of DIALOGUE
George L. Seay
Director of Fellowships
Ann C. Sheffield

International Studies
Division
Director

Robert S. Litwak

Division of Regional
and Comparative
Studies

Director, Asia Program
Mary Brown Bullock
Director, East European Studies
John R. Lampe
Director, Kennan Institute for
Advanced Russian Studies
Blair A. Ruble
Director, Latin American
Program
Joseph S. Tulchin
Director, West European Studies
Samuel F. Wells, Jr.

Division of United
States Studies

Director
Michael J. Lacey

History, Culture and
Society Program
Director

James M. Morris

Media Studies Project

Director
Lawrence W. Lichty

The Woodrow
Wilson Center Press

Director of Publications
Richard Rowson

The Wilson Quarterly
Editor

Jay Tolson
Publisher

Kathy Read
Appendix 7

Donors to the Smithsonian Institution in

Fiscal Year 1992

The Board of Regents and the Secretary of the Smithsonian join with the en-
tire staff in thanking all of the Institution’s friends for the generosity they
have shown with their financial support, gifts to the collection, and in-kind

donations. Gifts are recorded under the title of the recipient bureau or

office, with a brief description of the gift where appropriate. If perchance

the name of any donor has been omitted from these lists, it is an inadver-

tence and in no way diminishes the Institution’s gratitude. Many gifts were

received from donors who prefer to remain anonymous; the Smithsonian
wishes to thank these people, as well, for their support.

Joseph Henry Papers

Donors of Financial Support

$1,000 or more

Reingold, Nathan

Sciences

Conservation Analytical
Laboratory

Donors of Financial Support

$ 10,000 or more

The Samuel H. Kress Foundation

National Museum of
Natural History

Donors to the Collection

Institutions

ExchangelG ift

Field Museum of Natural History: 47
plants (397257, 398137).

Herbario Universitario, Venezuela: 657
plants (398628).

Universidad de Sao Paulo, Brazil: 653
plants (399018).

Universidad Nacional Autonoma de
Mexico, Mexico: 102 plants (401429).

Exchange

Academy of Sciences, Russia: 100 plants
(396914); 101 fishes (399281).

American Museum of Natural History:
1 meteorite spec. (382912).

Australian Institute of Marine Science,
Australia: 8 crustaceans (399281).

Australian Museum, Australia: 6 fishes
(398324).

Australian National University,
Australia: 25 plants (397244).

Bernice P. Bishop Museum: 205 plants
(398698, 399043); 10 fishes (397399).

Biologische Anstalt Helgoland, Ger-
many: 7 crustaceans (397496).

California Narural History Museum of
Los Angeles County: 37 worms
(379361).

California, University of: 48 plants
(397277); 1 fish (399305).

Canadian Museum of Nature, Canada:
158 plants (397296).

Colorado, University of: 3 fossil primate
casts (399813)

Copenhagen, University of, Denmark:
56 plants (399040).

Departmento de Recursos Naturales,
Puerto Rico: 113 plants (398159).

Field Museum of Natural History: 81
plants (399023, 401430).

Florida, University of: 7 casts of fossil
mammal (397941).

Goteborg, University of, Sweden: 71
plants (401434).

Harvard University: 207 plants
(398692); 3 fishes (357201, 394288); I
fossil cast (399737).

Herbario Barbosa Rodriguez (HBR),
Brazil: 50 plants (398624).

Herbarium Jutlandicum, Denmark: 888
plants (398620).

Huntsman Marine Laboratory, Canada:
9 fishes (374813).

India, Zoological Survey of, India: 15
fishes (400856).

Institute of Volcanic Geology and Geochem-
istry, Russia: 88 volcanic rocks (400282).

Jardin Botanico Nacional, Dominican
Republic: 109 plants (398701).

Lamar University: 1 fossil cast of a skull
and jaws (397960).

Miami, University of: 13 fishes (281161).

Minnesota, University of: 13 caddisflies
(399930).

Missouri Botanical Garden: 205 plants
(398194, 401157).

Moscow State University, Russia: 4
crustaceans (394153).

Museo Civico di Storia Naturale, Italia:
48 fishes (400875).

145
Museo Civico di Storia Naturale, Italy:
4 sawflies (397206); 48 fishes
(400875).

Museo Nacional de Historia Natural,
Bolivia: 406 plants (398122).

Museo de Historia Natural, Peru: 571
fishes (396920).

Museu Paraense Emilio Goeldi, Brazil:
6 fossil dungong casts (399811).

Museum National D'Histoire
Naturelle, France: 181 plants
(397279); 5 fishes 397439, 399291).

National Taiwan University, Republic
of China: 15 fishes (332600).

National Tropical Botanical Garden:
241 plants (398690, 401846).

Naturhistorisches Museum Wien,
Austria: 3 ants (397208).

Natuurmuseum Rotterdam, The
Netherlands: 6 birds (397099).

Otago, University of, New Zealand: 2
fossil reptile bones cast (397961).

Philadelphia Academy of Natural Scien-
ces: 7 fishes (304659); 136 bird mum-
mies (400823).

Pontificia Universidade Catolica do Rio
Grande do Sul Museu, Brazil: 68
fishes (397414).

Queensland Herbarium, Australia: 31
plants (399035).

Royal Botanic Gardens, England: 17
plants (398669).

Texas, University of: 91 plants (395492,
398691, 399003).

Tulane University: 119 plants (401155).

Tyrrell Museum of Palaeontology,
Canada: 5 fossil bird bones casts
(395667).

University Marine Biological Station
Millport, Scotland: 7 crustaceans
(392625).

Universidad de Antioquia, Colombia: 1
plant (398131).

Universidad Nacional Autonoma de
Mexico, Mexico: 464 plants (397281).

Universidad Nacional de Colombia,
Colombia: 7 plants (399063).

Universidade de Brasilia, Brazil: 16
plants (398647).

Utah State University: 35 plants (401207).

Washington, University of: 63+
echinoderms (335865).

Western Australian Museum, Australia:
u shrimps (385037); 6 plants
(302244); 3 fishes (399366).

146

Yale University: 1 meteorite (322556).

Zoological Museum, Russia: 2 beetles
(399886).

Gift

Aarhus Universitet, Denmark: 109
plants (397272, 397328, 399074).

Academy of Natural Sciences, Russia:
22 worms (400252).

Agriculture Canada, Canada: 4 wasps
(399529).

Alabama, University of: 15 crustaceans
(395957).

American Museum of Natural History:
22 wasps (398385).

Amsterdam, University of, Nether-
lands: 26 plants (398676, 398682).

Archbold Biological Station: 13 wasps
(401377).

Arizona, University of: 77+ mollusks
(396239, 398198); 94 plants (398650,
398999, 399039).

Arkansas State University: 3 beetles
(399945, 401337); 20 crustaceans
(346020, 397528).

Asociacion Jardin Botanico La Laguna,
El Salvador: 26 plants (398635).

Atlantic County New Jersey Office of
the Prosecutor: 1 nearly complete
human skeleton (390883).

Australian Museum, Australia: 20 crus-
taceans (397513); 5 worms (400247).

Australian National University,
Australia: 13 echinoderms (399248).

Bermuda Aquarium, Natural History
Museum and Zoo, Bermuda: 2
worms (397386).

Bernice P. Bishop Museum: 5 fishes
(397428, 398852, 400907); 3 plants
(399044, 402232).

Biological Survey, New York St. Educa-
tion Dept.: 7 flies (401718).

Biologische Anstalt Helgoland, Ger-
many: 2 crustaceans (397500).

Biolaski Instiut Jovana Hadzija, Yugos-
lovia: 100+ mollusks (398248).

Black Hills Institute of Geological
Research, Inc.: 3 fossil bird skeletons
(398525).

Bowling Green University: 86 fossils
(99733).

Bridgewater State College: 2 worms
(325520).

Brigham Young University: 3 crus-
taceans (397482).

British Museum (Natural History),
England: 3 crustaceans (397482); 1
fish (400866); 88+ echinoderms
(395463).

Brown University: 22 crustaceans
(395990).

CRIP—Patzcuaro, Mexico: 34 crus-
taceans (397493).

California Natural History Museum of
Los Angeles County: 33 echinoderms
(395432); 559 mollusks (398208,
398211).

California State University: 10
echinoderms (401500).

California, University of: 12 plants
(397317, 397662, 397707, 398141,
398148, 3999024, 399033); 5 Crus-
taceans (399375); 109+ echinoderms
(395472, 395639, 399232, 399234,
397774, 400866).

Cambridge, University of, England: 1
echinoderm (401486).

Canadian Museum of Nature, Canada: 1
worm (397353):

Canfield Fund: 20 minerals (394565,
396328, 396369, 396388, 397000,
397034, 398727, 398734).

Carleton University, Canada: 3 beetles
(399862).

Carnegie Museum: 6 insects (399498,
398498,401744).

Cedem International: 3 sponges (399263).

Central Michigan University: 1
protozoan slide (397791).

Centre ORSTOM de Cayenne, France:
476 plants (396893, 396894, 396895,
396896, 396898, 396899, 396900,
396901, 396902 398151, 398178,
398674, 398679, 399005, 399047,
401856).

Centre de Rechercher Oceanographique,
Republique de Cote D'Ivoire: 80+
fishes (252914).

Centro de Ecologia Aplicada del Litoral,
Argentina: 9 crustaceans (392619).
Centro Internacional de la Papa, Peru: a

plant (398134).

Centro Investigaciones de Quintna Roo,
Mexico: 29+ crustaceans (392612,
397521, 399462, 399462, 399468).

Chamberlain Fund: 2 lots and 7 minerals
(394512, 397002, 398722, 398735).

Charleston Museum: 8 barkcloths, orna-
ment, drum, and Man-catcher
(390861).
Clemson University: 2 crustaceans
(395979, 401062).

Coastal Planning & Engineering: 1
sponge (399237).

Columbus America Discovery Group:
17 echinoderms (386969).

Companhia Vale do Rio Doce, Brazil:
17 plants (398129).

Conservatoire et Jardin botaniques de la
Ville de Geneve, Switzerland: 1 plant
(397245).

Continental Shelf Associates: 4
echinoderms (395470, 399241).

Coral Reef Research Foundation,
Federated States of Micronesia: 24+
echinoderms (401502).

Cornell University: 5 fishes (399286).

Costa Rica, University of, Costa Rica: 2
echinoderms (399271).

Cove Corporation: 6,008+ worms
(395803, 397360).

Defenders of Wildlife: 4 birds (399840,
400806).

DEIXIS: 2,090+ mollusks (396270,
396302, 398225, 398265, 400404).

Departamento de Biologia-~-FFCLRP,
Brazil: 15 fishes (399369).

Drake Fund: 4,926 insects (401965).

Drew University: 35 worms (313962).

Eastern Connecticut State University: 1
plant (397697).

Eastern Marine Fisheries Development
Center, Thailand: 73+ worms
(386724, 388559).

Fairchild Tropical Garden: 9 plants
(401841).

Field Museum of Natural History: 5
plants (391726).

First National Bank of Cincinnati: 7
ethnological artifacts (380523).

Fisheries Institute, Egypt: 2
echinoderms (395462).

Florida, Department of Agriculture and
Consumer Service: 90+ crustaceans
401066).

Florida, Cooperative Extension Service:
20+ worms (400251).

Florida, Department of Natural Resour-
ces: 2 echinoderms (399248); 1 crus-
tacean (399459).

Florida Oceanographgy Society: 20+
crustaceans (397447).

Florida, University of: 5 wasps (398370);
1 plant (398621); 2 fossil sirenian
skeleton and skull casts (399096).

Fundacao Universidade de Brasilia,
Brazil: 1 plant (397692).

Genstar Stone Products Company: 1
mineral (397031).

Geobotanisches Institut Ethz, Switzer-
land: 2 plants (399036).

George Washington University: 500+
echinoderms (397758).

Georgia, University of: 128 mites (398965).

Ghent State University, Belgium: 12
crustaceans (395958).

Global Diamonds, Inc.: 1 set of
diamond alphabet letters (394558).

Guam, University of, Guam: 1
echinoderm (401487).

Guatemala Methods Med. Fly Station,
Guatemala: 32 flies (401724).

Gulf Coast Research Laboratory: 20
crustaceans (303107, 401080).

Harbor Branch Oceanographic
Museum: 7 echinoderms (399230).

Harvard University: 4 worms (397348);
15 plants (398622).

Hawaii, University of: 10 fishes 394952);
200+ worms (395806); 5 fossils
(397882).

Heard Natural Science Museum &
Wildlife Sanctuary: 8 crustaceans
(394093, 395945).

Herbario Barbosa Rodrigues - HBR,
Brazil: u10 plants (398698, 399019).

Herbario Nacional de Venezuela,
Venezuela: 2 plants (399017).

Herbario Universitario, Venezuela: 8
plants (398124).

Hokkaido Tokai University, Japan: 35
mites (398904); 25+ crustaceans
(399419).

Idaho, University of: 1 plant (398662).

Indiana University: 37 crustaceans
(397506).

Institut za Biologijo, Yugoslavia: 31
crustaceans (395971).

Institute of Marine Biology, USSR: 22
worms (400252).

Institute of Marine Sciences: 25 crus-
taceans (399227); 4 protozoan slides
(397765, 399227).

Institute of Systematic Botany, The
Netherlands: 192 plants (397674,
397674, 401776, 402225).

Institute of Wildlife & Environmental
Toxicology: 2 crayfish (401062)

Instituto de Biologia, UNAM, Mexico:
1 damselfly/dragonfly (401310).

Instituto de Botanica Darwinion, Repub-
lica Argentina: 26 plants (397663).

Instituto de Ciencias del Mar Barcelona,
Spain: 33 crustaceans (399466).

Instituut voor Taxonomische Zoology ,
The Netherlands: 12+ mollusks
(396236, 396308); 16 worms (400235).

Iowa, University of: 373+ echinoderms
(392622).

James Madison University: 14 crus-
taceans (401064).

Jardim Botanico do Rio de Janeiro,
Brazil: 10 plants (391260).

Johns Hopkins University: 2
echinoderms slides (395473).

Jorge Tadeo Lozano University, Colom-
bia: 10 echinoderms (401485).

Kansas, University of: 12 scorpionflies
(401742).

Karachi, University of, Pakistan: 2 crus-
taceans (399464).

Kentucky, University of: 2 plants
(397689).

King Fahd Univiversity of Petroleum &
Minerals Resources Institute, Saudi
Arabia: 3 worms (371256).

Louisville, University of: 3 mollusks
(398237).

Lund Universitet, Sweden: 30
protozoans slides (399257, 399405,
401498).

Malay, University of, Malaysia: 16+
echinoderms (397752).

Maine, University of: 11 crustaceans
(395982).

Marine Biological Laboratory: 81 crus-
taceans (401054).

Marine Environment Consortium: 2
echinoderms (393656).

Massachusetts, University of: 191 fishes
(397433).

McGill University, Canada: 55 plants
(397720).

Miami, University of: 14+ echinoderms
(237045).

Michigan, University of: 477 crus-
taceans (362528).

Mineral Fund: 29 minerals (388290,
393152, 394564, 396370, 396402,
396403, 396404, 396405, 397003,
397004, 397005, 397006, 397007,
397008, 397039, 397055, 397089,
398737).

Mininterio rio del Ambiente,
Venezuela: 19 plants (402241).

147
Minnesota, University of: 13 caddisflies
(399930).

Missouri Botanical Garden: 1,808 plants
(397271, 398106, 398117, 398140,
398702, 399070, 401829).

Montana, University of: 8 plants
(398110).

Museo Botanico Municipal, Brazil: 18
plants (401449).

Museo Civico Di Storia, Italy: 19
sawflies (401303).

Museo Nacional de Costa Rica, Costa
Rica: 2 plants (401775).

Museu Botanico Municipal, Brazil: 46
plants (397320).

Museu Nacional (UFRJ), Brazil: 12
corals (397751).

Museum National d'Histoire Naturelle,
France: 5 mollusks (397460); 21 crus-
taceans (397460, 401061).

Museum of New Zealand Te Papa Ton-
garewa, New Zealand: 60 fishes
(402123).

Museum of Shells & Marine Life: 3 crus-
taceans (391371).

Nanjing University, Peoples Republic
of China: 2 plants (397736).

National Institute of Oceanography,
India: 32 crustaceans (307459).

National Museum of Natural History,
The Netherlands: 566+ crustaceans
395941).

National Museum of New Zealand,
New Zealand: 5 birds (399207).

National Natuurhistorisch Museum, The
Netherlands: 1 echinoderm (397793).

National Sun Yat-sun University, Repub-
lic of China: 1 echinoderm (395460).

National Taiwan Ocean University,
China: 5 crustaceans (397503).

National Taiwan University, China: 2
fishes (397406).

New Hampshire, University of: 2 cad-
disflies (398388).

New Mexico State University: 10 plants
(397248).

New York Botanical Garden: 157 plants
(397286, 397314, 401786).

New Zealand Oceanographic In-
stitute, New Zealand: 125+
echinoderms (373872).

North Carolina Central University: 59
echinoderms (397747, 399268).

North Carolina Wildlife Resources
Commission: 250+ clams (398280).

148

North Carolina, University of: 15 fossils
(399760).

Northeastern University: 50+ worms
(312973).

Northern Arizona University: 3+
echinoderm slides (399225, 401501).

Northern Territory Museum of Arts &
Sciences, Australia: 12 echinoderms
(393685); 1 crustacean (386595).

Nova Oceanographic Center: 20 corals
(395471).

Of Sea And Shore, Inc.: i crustaceans
(391371, 397445, 399469).

Ohio State University: 1 crustacean
(399422).

Oklahoma, University of: 2
echinoderms (399240, 399262).

Old Dominion University: 15 crus-
taceans (397464); 25+ mollusks
(398283).

Oporto, University of, Portugal: 2
echinoderm slides (399244).

Oregon State University: 1 plant
(401844).

Oregon, University of: 70 fishes
(397415).

ORSTOM Direction Generale, Bolivia:
3 plants (398156).

Philadelphia Academy of Natural Scien-
ces: 50+ mollusks (396286); 62 plants
(398135).

Pittsburgh, University: 20 worms
(400269).

Plymouth Marine Laboratory, United
Kingdom: 7 crustaceans (395976,
399428).

Pont Universidad Catolica do Rio Grande
do Sul, Brazil: 50+ fishes (402148).

Puerto Rico, University of, Puerto Rico:
24 crustaceans (363003, 397457,
399418); 7 fishes (398322).

Queensland Institute of Medical Re-
search, Australia: 204 crustaceans
(295929).

Royal British Columbia Musem,
Canada: 2 dragonflies (398389).

Royal Ontario Museum, Canada: 7 fishes
(399368); 12 insects (401698, 401746).

San Diego Natural History Museum: 1
mollusks (398211, 398238).

San Diego State University: 1,100+ crus-
taceans (399391).

San Diego Water Utilities Department
and Metro Wastewater Division: 6
crustaceans (399410)

Satratov State University, Russia: 82
fossils (399797).

Science Application International Cor-
poration: 55+ crustaceans (367996); 5
worms (400244).

Sea Fisheries Research Institute, South
Africa: 1 crab (397514).

Shannon Point Marine Center: 1
crustaceans (395951, 395953).

Shikoku University, Japan: 4 crus-
taceans (399415).

South Alabama, Unversity of: 2
crustaceans (392626).

South Australian Museum, Australia: 5
echinoderms (395461, 399143).

South Carolina Department of Wildlife
and Marine Resources: 2 crustaceans
(401034).

South Carolina, University of: 5 plants
(401835).

Southern Arkansas University: 156+
crustaceans (395965, 397446, 399385,
399426, 399435).

Southern California, University of: 2
echinoderms (397788, 399754).

Southern Illinois University: 83
crustaceans (399453).

Springer Fund: 25+ fossils (396708).

State University of New York: 7 crus-
taceans (399467).

Stirling, University of, United
Kingdom: 20+ mollusks (398205).

Stuart Fund: 6 minerals (393134,
396406, 396999, 397017, 398730).

Sussex, University of, United Kingdom:
3 Crustaceans (399395).

Swedish Museum of Natural History,
Sweden: 20+ mollusks (396294).

T. F. H. Publications, Inc.: 2 fishes
(399288).

Texas A & M University: 41 crustaceans
(397459, 399413, 399414).

Texas, The University of: 2 worms
(316830); 12 plants (399067, 399645).

Tokyo, University of, Japan: 1,246
echinoderms (392211).

Toronto, University of, Canada: 2 crus-
taceans (396005).

Transkei, University of, South Africa:
29 plants (397318).

Tulane University: 7 fossils (394083,
399734).

Tulsa, University of: 1 mollusk (398276).

UNELLEZ—Guanare, Venezuela: 16
plants (391727),
UNESP—Campus Rio Preto, Brazil: 65
ferns (401828).

Unidad Merida, Mexico: 12+ worms
(394236).

Universidad Austral, Chile: 5+ crus-
taceans (392655); 12 fishes (400882).

Universidad Central de Venezuela: 13
plants (399042).

Universidad de Antioquia, Colombia: 15
plants (391725, 397678, 401852).

Universidad de Caldas, Colombia: 114
plants (375164).

Universidad de Concepcion, Chile: 2
crustacean (399423).

Universidad de Los Andes, Venezuela: 1
plant (398697).

Universidad del Valle: 62 plants
(398700, 399030, 402239).

Universidad Mayor de San Andres,
Bolivia: 3 plants (391729).

Universidad Nacional Autonoma de Mex-
ico, Mexico: 10+ worms (395804); 40+
crustaceans (341564); 4 plants (397280).

Universidade de Sao Paulo, Brazil: 22
worms (269449); 16 plants (398677);
10 fishes (400847); 30 crustaceans
(401089).

Universidade Estadual de Campinas
(UNICAMP), Brazil: 4 plants
(396913, 398115).

Universidade Estadual Paulista ‘Julio
de Mesquita Filho’, Brazil: 20 plants
(398115).

Univerdade Federal de Minas Gerais,
Brazil: 3 beetles (400570).

Universidade Federal de Pernambuco,
Brazil: 19+ crustaceans (395966).

Universitat Hamburg, Germany: 3 crus-
taceans (395983); 2 fishes (397402).

Universitat Wien, Austria: 6 plants
(398653).

Universite de Provence, France: 6
worms (397372).

University Marine Biological Station,
Scotland: 10 crustaceans (397536).

Vermont, University of: 16 crustaceans
(396003).

Vienna, University of, Austria: 4 worms
(321398).

Virginia Department of Transportation:
1 mineral (400702).

Virginia Highlands Community Col-
lege: 1 plant (397725).

Virginia Living Museum: 3 birds
(389378).

Washington Hilton Hotel: 1 snowy owl
(399209).

Washington, University of: 125 worms
(305921, 376791).

West Florida, University of: 1
echinoderm slide (395449).

West Indies, University of the, Jamaica:
4 crustaceans (399406); 18 fishes
(400879).

Western Australian Museum, Australia:
2 crustaceans (397505).

Western Kentucky University: 650+
crustaceans (340519).

Western Pennsylvania Conservancy: 17
crustaceans (397478).

Wildlife Research Laboratory: 23 crus-
taceans (399454, 401058).

Wittenberg University: 10 crustaceans
(396000).

Woods Hole Oceanographic Institu-
tion: 5 mollusks (396293); 1
echinoderm (397768).

Zhongshan (Sun Yatsen) University,
China: 19 plants (402228).

Zoologisk Museum, Denmark: 38
worms (397347).

Found in Collections

Smithsonian Institution: 5 archeological
artifacts (361220); 4,308 invertebrate,
vertebrate & botanical fossils
(382505); 50+ mollusks (396240); 107
birds (398577).

Transfer

Agriculture, U. S. Dept. of: 91 plants
(397278, 397306, 398696); 15,735
insects (397178, 401927).

Commerce, U. S. Dept. of: 120+ crus-
taceans (380018, 381750); 755

fishes (394276, 396956, 398344, 399293,
400917); 687+ worms (395797,
397354).

Cooper-Hewitt Museum: 1 feather
blanket (378797).

Defense, U. S. Dept. of: 85+ crustaceans
(335517, 397504).

Harbor Branch Oceanographic Institu-
tion: I worm (395444).

Hirshhorn Museum & Sculpture Gar-
den: 688 artifacts (370312).

Interior, Dept of: Bureau of the Mines: 1
mineral (396375); Fish & Wildlife Ser-
vice: 4 crustaceans (395938); 337 birds
(358569, 398575); 5 crustaceans

(397454, 397498); 2 fishes (246720);
98 mammals (402349); 2 mollusks
(391329); a fossil walrus skull
(396672); U. S. Geological Survey: 9
minerals (400703, 400726); 834 fos-
sils (393093, 396651, 397959, 398524,
398539, 399112, 399113, 399114,
399116, 399139, 399187, 400960,
400994, 401619); 2 pumice stones
and 1,185 volcanic rocks (393446,
394614, 394618, 400284, 400289); Na-
tional Park Service: 175 crustaceans
(372909); 44 plants (397727, 398639,
398673).

National Science Foundation: 912
Antarctic meteorites (401657).

Smithsonian Astrophysical Obser-
vatory: I meteorite (398975).

Smithsonian Environmental Research
Center.: 33 crustaceans (395960).

Smithsonian Museum of American His-
tory: 8 Polynesian barkcloths
(390913).

Smithsonian National Zoological Park:
18 mammals (397795); 15 birds
(398076, 398576).

Smithsonian Sorting Center: 16,858 crus-
taceans (383101, 389889); 3,186
echinoderms (395425, 401494); 65
fishes (398817); 21,521+ worms
(280625, 311230, 327597, 397346);
70+ fossils (397877).

Individuals

Collected for the Museum

Pedro Acevedo: 996 plants (397688,
399065, 399066, 399078, 399081,
401470).

Dr. R. Aronson: 22 echinoderms
(390717).

George Barrett, Sr.: 2 birds (254031).

J. Benito: 1 worm (400241).

Dr. Thomas E. Bowman: 33 crustaceans
(401063).

Michael Brett-Surman: 1 dinasaur fossil
(400949).

Dr. Stephen D. Cairns: 80+ corals
(395446).

Luis Chiappe: See also Dr. Storrs L.
Olson (398592).

Francisco Dallmeier: 37 plants
(399002).

Dr. Don R. Davis: 1,765 insects (401988).

149
Dr. Carlos A. S. de Lucena: 1,702 fishes
(398319).

Dr. Pete J. Dunn: 25+ minerals (397015,
40074]1).

Robert B. Faden: 59 plants (399062).

Dr. Kristian Fauchald: 813+ worms
(395795, 400239).

Christian Feuillet: 179 plants (380171,
398123).

Dr. Oliver S. Flint, Jr.: 3,238 misc.
insects (398882, 398928).

Dr. Kurt Fredriksson: 4 volcanic rocks
(400281).

Vicki Funk: 133 plants (378296).

Dr. Gary R. Graves: 80 birds (399218).

Roger B. Griffis: 55+ crustaceans, 2
fishes (399448).

Gerald F. “Stinger” Guala: 112 plants
(397335)

Dr. M. G. Harasewych: 4 fossils
(386328).

Elizabeth Harris: 120 plants (399999).

Dr. Robert Hershler: 34,990 mollusks
(398284).

Dr. Leo J. Hickey: 18 fossil plants
(401590).

William Hilgartner: 14 plants (398126).

Bruce Hoffman: 2000 plants (399998).

Dr. Nicholas Horton III: 12 fossil ver-
tebrates (376416).

Dr. Richard S. Houbrick: 15+ fresh-
water snails (396272).

Dr. G. David Johnson: 459+ fishes
(398849).

Dr. Brian Kensley: 100+ echinoderms
(397524); 200+ worms (337561,
397524).

John Kilar: 700 plants (381349).

Dr. Robert Merrill King: 80 plants
(399635).

Dr. Karen Koltes: 34 crustaceans
(380009).

W. John Kress: 91 plants (398099,
399055, 399658, 400650, 401215,
402233, 402235).

Peter Kroehler: 7 slabs of fossil
footprints (399128).

J. Jerry Landye: 250+ freshwater snails
(398247).

Ronald J. Larson: 1 lizard (300990).

William D. Lee: 12 crustaceans (401036).

Niles Lindquist: See also John
Lindquist (381349).

Dr. Raymond B. Manning: 3 crabs
(401037).

150

Dr. Brian Mason: 100 rocks (397860,
400280).

Dr. Wayne N. Mathis: 1,148 misc. in-
sects (401745).

Dr. James G. Mead: 3 assorted marine
mammals (397819).

Dr. Jon Norenburg: 6 worms (400240).

Dr. Storrs L. Olson:. 319 birds (398592).

F. Pardos: See also J. Benito (400241).

Dr. Lynne R. Parenti: 1933 fish (395699).

Dr. David Pawson: See also Dr. R.
Aronson (390717).

Paul M. Peterson: 683 plants (401798).

George Phebus: 108,018 archaeological
artifacts (361357).

Paul W. Pohwat 6 minerals (396995).

Dr. Jeffrey E. Post: 19 minerals (400733,
400761).

Dr. Kenneth Rasmussen: 1 echinoderms
(401496).

Timothy Rose: See also Dr. Jeffrey Post;
(400761); 10 minerals (400762); See
also Dr. M. Wise (397061).

Charles A. Ross: 1 fish (392757).

Dr. Greg Rouse: 20+ worms (395794);
See also Linda Ward (397392).

Dr. Stanwyn G. Shelter: 50 plants
(402224).

Dr. I. G. Sohn: 1 coral (396631).

Larry Spear: 93 seabirds (395734).

Dr. Dennis Stanford: 22 artifacts
(369882).

Michael J. Sweeney: 3,000+ worms
(329634).

Paul Taylor: 1 plant (381289).

Dr. Warren L. Wagner: 369 plants
(397694, 399585, 399610, 399619,
400042, 401227).

Linda A. Ward: 874+ worms (397392).

Waldo R. Wedel: 354 lithic & bone
artifacts (356620).

Dr. Austin Williams: 5 crustaceans
(401087).

Jeffrey T. Williams: 7,442 fishes
(390807); 6 crustaceans (397403).

Robert Wilson: See also Linda Ward
(397392).

Dr. M. Wise: 18 minerals (397061).

Dr. Ellis L. Yochelson: 10 fossils (396641).

Exchange

Dr. Masaki Abe: 23 North American
sawflies (399535).

Dr. John Bailey: 19 volcanic rocks
(397854).

Dr. Shelby J. Boardman: 3 meteorites
(398972).

Dr. Jose Bonaparte: 25 casts of fossil
mammal teeth (398502).

Robert A. Haag: 2 meteorites (396987).

Dr. Marian Kotrba: 25 flies (401692).

Dr. V. A. Mutin: 18 flower flies (401946).

Dr. James Schwade: 8 meteorites
(389695, 393419, 393428, 401881).

Dr. Masahiro Tanimoto: a cast of a fossil
dinosaur tooth (396688).

Dr. Fouad Tera: 1 meteorite (402481).

Prof. Rodolfo Trevino: 8 meteorites
(335609).

Gift

Paul M. Adams: 1 mineral (397027).

Velma Adams (Deceased): 2 necklaces
(390868).

Dr. Peter H. Adler: 2,383 miscellaneous
insects (398884).

Donald W. Agee: 1 fossil bone (396697).

Professor Edward Anders: 7 meteorites
(402474).

Arthur Anderson: 1 cut beryl (400713).

William R. Anderson, Jr.: a stone pipe
(390869).

Matthew C. Andrea: 1 fossil bird (401544).

Dr. Fred G. Andrews: 2 beetles (398872).

J. Philip & Claudia J. Angle: 3 frozen
birds (397122).

Larry Anitorn: 17 spiders (399865).

Dr. Shelton P. Applegate: 1 fossil cast
(395640).

Dr. Brian Armitage: 46 misc. insects
(397199, 401750).

Dr. Paul H. Arnaud, Jr.: 115 flies
(398877).

John F. Arthur: 3 fossils (397943).

Dr. Sidney R. Ash: 21 fossil plants
(399730).

Wallace Ashby: 1 fossil (398526).

Mr. & Mrs. Wallace L. Ashby: 12 fossil
bird bones (398498, 398526, 400974).

Dr. T. H. Atkinson: 14 beetles (401713).

Merle Ayres: 3 fossil gastropods
(397929).

Dave Baggett: 42 misc. insects (398929).

Dr. Julie Bailey-Brock: 5+ worms
(390384).

Mr. & Mrs. Wayne & Aura Baker: 7 fos-
sils 397953).

Dr. George E. Ball: 2 beetles (398943).

Norman G. Banks: 5 pumice stones
(397857).
Dr. Richard Banks: 1 bird (397121).

Carlos do Prado Barbosa: 3 mineral
(397012).

Professor Daniel S. Barker: 3 lava specs.
(394613).

Lawrence V. Basch: 7 worms (355140).

Fred Bauer: 16 parrots (398582).

Dr. R. S. Beal, Jr.: 2 beetles (401924).

Dr. William C. Bean: 22 fossil seal
bones (397963).

Dr. Vitor O. Becker: 237 moths (401314).

Dr. Bruce Beehler: 1 bird (398073).

Denton Belk: 75+ crustaceans (395973).

John Bell: 2 fossil bird bones (398499).

Dr. Charles L. Bellamy: 4 beetles
(398959).

Dr. Juan L. Benedetto: 283 fossils
(401003).

Dr. Richard H. Benson: 6 fossil shark
teeth (395668).

Dr. Alain Bernard: 2 pumice stones
(400295).

Joseph Bernstein: 4 fossils (393072,
401018).

Mike Bies: See also Rodger Inman
(401014).

Mrs. Corry Bintaldjemur: 1 calcite, 4
quartzs & 1 necklace quartz (397025).

Dr. Gale Bishop: 2 fossil crabs (399115).

Dr. P. R. Bitschene: 2 volcanic ash & I
pumice (394615).

Dr. Robert B. Blodgett: 1 fossil (398484).

Doug Boerner: 1 meteorite (398563).

Mrs. Paula W. Bohaska: 1 fossil shark
tooth (396661).

Dr. L. Botosaneanu: 3 caddisflies
(399515).

Dr. David E. Bowles: 14 caddisflies
(401701, 401719)

Professor Samuel Bowring: 2 volcanic
rocks (397864).

Dr. Alan Brady: 140 spiders (401989).

E. Brawnlee: 1 bird (399854).

Dr. Carlton E. Brett: 25+ items
(396708).

Jake Brodzinsky: 1 moth (398963).

David R. Brosnahan: 2 minerals
(397018).

Dawn Brown: 2 fossil bones (397903).

Richard Brown: 10 frozen birds (399843).

Dr. Richard L. Brown: 4 moths (398422).

E. Fulton Brylawski: 1 baboon mummy
(390890).

Dr. Vagn F. Buchwald: 1 meteorite
(398558).

Dave Bunk: 3 minerals (396997).

Dr. G. David Buntin: 1 wasp (398418).

Dr. Eugene M. Burreson: 20+ worms
(395802, 400264).

Dr. George W. Busby, III: 49 butterflies
(398905).

Dr. J. E. Carico: 450 spiders (401978).

Dr. Tom Casadevall: 2 pumice stones
(400294).

Cynthia G. Cassey: 60 ethnological ar-
tifacts (390896).

Robert Caswell: 1 bird (399195).

Wingfield N. Chamberlain: 2 Chinese
porcelain vases (390881).

Dr. Joan B. Chapin: 2 beetles (399528).

Steve Church: 40 fossils (399821).

Dr. Wayne E. Clark: 1 beetle (398960).

Mrs. Nancy Clarke: 512 moths (399521).

John Claytor: 1 fossil manatee bone
(399159).

Roger Clinch: 2 fossils (396635, 399171).

Dr. Bernard L. Cohen: 200 fossils
(399724).

Ed Cohen: 4 plants (401784).

Atilano Contreras-Ramos: 20 dobson-
flies (399864).

Mr. & Mrs. Ed Coogan (Kay): 4
minerals (397056, 398780).

William R. Cook, Jr.: 3 quartzs
(396399).

John Coolidge: portion of a fossil pec-
cary mandible (399750).

Dr. Bruce Cornet: 560 fossils (396664,
401571).

Flavio Correa: 2 porphyry rocks
(400290).

Dr. Charles V., Jr. Covell: 1,609 butter-
flies & moths (398923,

401317).

Mrs. Mary Crabill: 10,300 centipedes
(401966).

Kenneth Craddock: 2 fossils (399786).

Joseph L. Cramer: 371 archeological ar-
tifacts (390872).

Dr. R. L. Crawford: 261 spiders
(401699).

David Crew: 2 fossils (398472, 401017).

Mrs. Elizabeth M. Cridlin: 10 fossil ver-
tebrates (395649).

Dr. Thomas W. Cronin: 9 crustaceans
(397523).

Donald & Alice Cummings: 29 artifacts
(390845).

Charles E. Cutress: 1 worm (395787).

John D'Arcy: 4 plants (398098).

John Danner: 1 fossil tooth (399172).

Dr. Marly Bueno De Camargo: 39
minerals (396389).

Dr. Christian R. De Kimpe: 3 minerals
(397083).

Dr. Michel Deliens: 3 minerals (400739).

Jesus Angel de Leon-Gonzales: 2 worms
(4002380).

Paulo Cesar de Paiva: 2 worms (395793).

Mike Derieux: 12 fossil vertebrates
(399168, 399742).

Stuart Derrow: 1 fossil (400969).

Dr. George C. Deutsch, Estate of: 12
minerals (397081).

Mrs. Ruth Deutsch: 5 tektites (398978).

Dr. Mark A. Deyrup: 105 sawflies
(401751).

Mr. & Mrs. Harold & Doris Dibble: 1
mineral (400701).

T. Dickel: 2 moths (399892).

Lallie Didham: 1+ worms (329765).

Dr. E. Diller: 40 sawflies (398898).

Rob Dillon: 35+ freshwater mollusks
(396291).

Ana Dittel: 11 crustaceans (394097).

Peter S. Dixon: 105 plants (397275,
397336).

Daryl P. Domning: 1 portion of a fossil
turtle bone (396703).

Dr. T. W. Donnelly: 15 dragonflies
(401944).

Dr. Byrd K. Dozier: 4 beetles (398957).

David B. Duke: 29 fossil vertebrates
(398469, 399120).

Dr. Sidney W. Dunkle: 24 dragonflies
(398425).

Michael Ebeling: See also Chris Rob-
bins (398565).

Dr. Robert L. Edwards: 749 spiders
(401980).

Stewart Edwards: 1 folded book
(390880).

Michael Ellwood: 1 fossil (399184).

Dr. Elly: 1 painted barkcloth (390859).

Dr. Carl Ernst: 39 birds (383515).

Dr. Christer Erseus: 3 worms (395796).

Dr. Richard Eskin: 12 worms (375704).

Florence Evans (Deceased): 7 ethnologi-
cal artifacts (380523).

John C. Ewers: 1 wood carving of a
woman (390886).

David K. Faulkner: 109 caddisflies
(397605).

Susan Feeney: 1 fossil bird bone

(396652).

I5I
Dr. Darryl Felder: 18 crustaceans
(399421).

Dr. Rodney M. Feldmann: 22 crus-
taceans (401575).

Daniel J. Feller: 42 crustaceans (399445).

Dr. Douglas C. Ferguson: 2,940 moths
(398924).

Dr. William E. Ferguson: 10 velvet ant
wasps (398890).

Clive H. Fetzer: 13 ethnological artifacts
(390876).

David Fine: 1 fossil (396619).

Michael H. Flinn: 2 worms, 5 crus-
taceans (395956).

Dr. Franklin EF Foit, Jr.: 2 minerals
(397021).

George C. Fonger: 84 fossils (395664,
398517, 400983).

Dr. John M. Foster: 1 crustacean
(397462).

Baynard Fox: 1 marine snail (288309).

Richard Franz: 25 crustaceans (392564,
395999).

H. A. Freeman: 21 butterflies (398927).

Freitag Family of: 1 bird (399196).

Terrence J. Frest: 275+ mollusks
(396270, 396302).

Dr. C. G. Froehlich: 30 Stoneflies
(401316).

Dr. Carlo Froglia: crustaceans (394130).

Mrs. Judith Frosh: 2 minerals (400719).

Dr. Douglas J. Futuyma: 10 beetles
(400515).

M. J. Galesi: 47 minerals (396347).

Frank Garcia: 7 fossils (399156, 399757).

Christopher Garvie: 2 fossils (398531).

Lloyd Gerhart: 18 birds (399842).

Dr. Stanislaw Geroch: 717 fossils
(398475).

Dr. Ray Gibson: 10 worms (397357).

Dr. C. Gielis: 98 moths (401981).

Lance Gilbertson: 2 landsnails (396297).

Dr. Christopher J. Glasby: 10 crus-
taceans (395778).

Dr. Billy P. Glass: 1 lot of microtektites
(399721).

Keith A. Glunt: 11 fossil vertebrates
(399126).

Dr. Enrique Gonzales S.: 1 damselfly
(401310).

Beau Gordon: 1 mineral (398794).

Mark E. Gordon: 10 snails (371201).

James Roy Gorson: 2 minerals (397032,
400718).

Patrick Gotsis: 1 fossil seal jaw (398500).

152

Fred Grady: 1 bird (399197).

Jason R. Grant: 31 plants (397284,
399013).

Atara Gray: 24 minerals (396363).

Candace Greene: 1 ribbon shirt (390874).

Dr. Edward Grew: a mineral (398746).

Richard Grier: See also Robert Grier
(398543).

Robert W. Grier: 5 fossils (396690,
398543, 399179).

Gary J. Grimsley: 2 fossils (396653,
397907).

Anna & Paul Grisso: 1 bird (398596).

Lloyd F. Gunther: 185 slabs w/ fossil
plant leaves (400990).

Lloyd F. & Frieda Gunther: 512 fossil
plants (397964, 401568, 401586).

William H. Hale: 1 fossil sea cow rib
(399804).

Samuel R. Hall: 8 birds (370784,
382871).

Dr. Premek Hamr: 2 crustaceans
(395923).

Dr. Tsu-Ming Han: 9 fossil slabs
(398523).

Dr. Ghazi Hareri: 2 crustaceans
(397479).

Peter J. Harmatuk: 800 fossil ver-
tebrates (389476, 394817, 397937,
399092).

Dr. George Harp: 3 beetles (399945,
401337).

Helen Leale Harper, Jr.: 1 Egyptian
mummified right hand (30877).

M. Scott Harris: 1 fossil walrus ulna
(379257).

Dr. Steven C. Harris: 314 insects
(398371, 401943).

Jack L. Harry: 417 butterflies & moths
(398369).

Dr. David M. Harwood: 27 fossils
(396625).

Dr. Richard L. Hauke: 4 plants
(399060).

Patrick Haynes: 1 mineral (400725).

Ssgt. Bill Heim: 141 fossils (396647,
398462, 399768, 399819).

Susan Hendrickson: 2 moth (400514).

Charles Herrmann: 1 owl (381954).

Dr. H. A. Hespenheide: 3 beetles
(398945).

James E. Hoffman: 4 land snails
(372091).

Mike Hogan: 12 fossil teeth (396705,
397951).

Dr. E. Holm: 1 meteorites (397829).

Dr. Lars Holmer: 99 fossils (397913).

Allan Hooker: 12 crustaceans (345680).

Mrs. Jean Hooper: 113 fossils (395663,
396636, 396673, 397902, 398493,
401582).

Dr. Bruce Hopper: 14+ worms (361654).

Peter Hovingh: 250+ snails (396305).

Dr. Gordon Hubbell: 300 fossil shark
remains (395633).

Dr. Francis Hueber: petrology & vol-
canology specimens (397865).

Dr. A. D. Huryn: 66 caddisflies
(398428).

Dr. Pat Hutchings: 7 worms (390397).

Mr. & Mrs. Frank Hyne (Becky): 4,022
fossil vertebrates (394003).

Dr. & Mrs. Charles David Hyson: 18
ebony sculptures (390904).

Dr. Ray W. Ingle: 200+ crustaceans
(401053).

Rodger Inman: 2 fossils (401014).

Dr. Hiroshi Inoue: 510 moths (398423,
398925, 401942).

Teruo Ishida: 7 crustaceans (399430).

A. R. Ismail: 8 caddisflies (397205,
399516).

Ronald M. A. Ison: 14 fossils (398511,
401587).

Andrei Ivantsov: 2 fossils (396640).

Dr. Samuel W. James: 15 worms
(395790).

Paul Jamison: 1 fossil (397905).

Dr. D. T. Jennings: 20,400 misc. insects
(401977).

Raymond F. Jezerinac: 6 crustaceans
(401083, 401090).

Marcus Jobes: 6 fossils (400991).

Marc Jobin: 1 mineral (398771).

Dr. Clarence Dan Johnson: 9 beetles
(399562).

Robert Johnson: 1 fossil seal bone
(397954)-

Walter N. Johnson: 2 beetles (399563).

Dr. Dave Johnston: 20 birds (382872).

Dr. James E. Joy: 4 fleas (397220).

Dr. Albertina Kameya K.: 1 crustacean
(401097).

Dr. Anthony Kampf: 1 mineral (396383).

Ivan Karp: 7 African artifcts (390893).

Mark Kaufman: 2 minerals (397002).

Dr. Edwin J. Keppner: 14 worms
(395808).

Anne Leightner Kienlen: 2 fossil ver-
tebrates (396689).
Dr. Lynn S. Kimsey: 180 beetles (398870).

Dr. Elbert A. King: 1 meteorite
(400059).

Dr. Robert Merrill King: 39 plants
(402222).

Dr. Boris Kondratieff: 14 stoneflies
(401315).

Dr. Dennis D. Kopp: 2,635 insects
(398964).

Dr. Milan Kozanek: 500 flies (401717).

Dr. Peter Kranz: 5 fossils (397874,
399136, 399765).

Professor F. Kraut: 1 meteorite (401879).

Walter and Carlen Kreutzer: 12 eth-
nological artifacts (390912).

E. L. Krinov: 1 lot of meteoritic
spherules (398562).

Peter Kroehler: 4+ fossils (398491).

Dr. Marie-Claude Lariviere: 2 bugs
(398362).

Peter Larson: 1 fossil whale skull
(394792).

William Larson: 2 minerals (396994).

Dr. James D. Lazell: 1 bird skeleton
(398081).

John Lee: 15+ worms (394201).

Pin L Lee: 2 plants (397739).

A. Scott Leiper: 122 worms (300751).

Dr. Robert E. Lewis: 1 flea slide
(398873).

Dr. Zheng Le-yi: 48 insects (398907).

Letty Limbach: 4 birds (397119).

Dr. David R. Lindberg: 1 fossil (399186).

John Lindquist: See also Niles
Lindquist (381349).

Niles Lindquist: 700 plants (381849).

Dr. Dan L. Lindsley: 2 butterflies
(400513).

Dr. Elbert L. Little, Jr.: 70 plants
(399041, 401213).

Dr. Chengijie Liu: 4 fossils (398458).

Dr. Alan Logan: 50 fossils (397875).

Douglas K. Look: 250 fossils (399160).

Gunnel M. Lundqvist: 1 cuneiform
tablet (390853).

Jose Luis Luque: 14 crustaceans (395962).

Dr. W. J. Lustenhouwer: 2 minerals
(400740).

Cecelia Luttrell: 276 plants (398196).

Dr. Jerry P. MacDonald: 1 fossil
(401005).

Dr. Jean-Michael Maes: 6 beetles
(398899).

Dr. Walter Manger: 427 fossils & frag-
ments (400936).

Dr. Shaozhi Mao: 5 fossils (397918).

Hugh Roy Marshall: 6 minerals (397080).

David Masalles: 29 crustaceans (396004).

Dr. Brian H. Mason: 75 gms. gold
(397045).

Bryant Mather: 318 moths (399530,
399868, 401929).

Dr. John C. McCain: 20+ worms
(275082).

Vance McCollum: 5 bird bones (401025).

Dr. Anne McCrary: 9 worms (322561).

Andy McDonald: 3 fossil reptile bones
(399764).

Marion McDowell: 18 echinoderms
(397756).

Dr. Frank K. McKinney: 1 fossil (397920).

William McLellan: 1 bird (399848).

Albert R. Mead: 2 snails (398213).

Mark Meisenhalder: 43 minerals
(397026, 400764).

Ray Meisenhalder: 20+ minerals
(398793).

Dr. C. A. Melson: 1 fossil (398457).

Werner Meyrahn: 1 lot & 5 minerals
(3970).

Walter B. Miller: 1 snail (396266).

Dr. William Miller, III: 3 fossils
(398482).

Leland Miyano: 3 crabs (399431).

Mrs. Doris Monk: 19 Philippines
artifacts (378671).

Mr. & Mrs. Gustavo E. Montes: 1 textile
template (390901).

Michael Moore: 2 crustaceans (397512).

Dr. V. J. Morand: 3 minerals (398745).

Dr. G. Victor Morejohn: 2 fossil sea cow
bones (399781).

Tim Morris: 1 crustacean (397458).

Dr. Jared Morrow: 45 fossils (399176).

Stephen R. Moulton: 69 caddisflies
(401743).

Wolfgang Munk: 147 fossils (396680).

Haidi Nazali: 1 pottery figurine
(390863).

Dr. Alexandra Nederbragt: 35 fossils
(399135).

David Nelson: 1 fossil (401004).

Dr. Gayle H. Nelson: 10 beetles
(398871, 398958).

Dr. Herbert H. Neunzig: 4 moths
(398391).

Mrs. S. Newman: 10 minerals (400717).

Michale Nicholas: 200 fossil vertebrates
(397934).

Felipe Noguera: 17 beetles (398962).

Dr. Jon L. Norenburg: 2 worms (397387).

Thomas O'Hagan: 6 fossil vertebrates
(399747).

Dr. Robert J. O'Hara: 2 birds (39102).

Dr. Svein Olerud: 1 mineral (397084).

Mr. & Mrs. Donald & Gloria Olson: 3
minerals (398773).

Dr. Paolo Orlandi: 1 mineral (398747).

Dr. John D. Oswald: 180 insects
(398883).

Dr. Guido Pagliano: 58 bees (401926).

Dr. James Pakaluk: 7,534 beetles
(399891).

Dr. John Parnell: 1 mineral (398743).

Deborah Paruszewski: 4 fossils (400963,
401016).

Dr. Steven Passoa: 7 moths (398437).

Allen Z. Paul: 200+ worms (301698).

Dr. David Pearson: 3 beetles (401928).

Alfonso Pelli: 3 beetles (400570).

Luis E. Pena G.: 1,398 misc. insects
(398390).

Dr. Angelica Maria Penteado-Dias: 28
sawflies (401930).

Dr. Fausto Persarini: 19 sawflies
(401303).

Dr. Dave Peters: 27 crustaceans (375010).

Dr. Esther Peters: 1,000+ corals
(388974).

Sandy Philmon: 1 fossil manatee jaw
(399157).

Dr. Mike Picker: 5 insects (398429).

Dr. Harold G. Pierce: 81 (399188).

Sid Pieters: 37+ minerals (397001,
397016, 397079).

Jan Pietruszka: 1 bird (399194).

Dr. Ron Pine: 400 fossil insects
(399748).

Dr. Maria Pingen: 160 fossil fruits,
seeds & brown coal (399729).

Don Pisor: 15 mollusks (369782).

Sherry K. Pittam: 235 plants (392000,
392025, 396119, 396732).

Fitz Plaumann: 10 flies (401691).

Dr. Kristin Pleasanton: 1 fossil mammal
tooth (400933).

Dr. Stephen G. Pollock: 6+ fossils
(397924).

Dr. Leonid Ye. Popov: 1,870 fossils
(396713).

Mark Ports: 115+ mollusks (400407,
400425).

Dr. J. L. Post: 7 minerals (396396).

Dr. Jerry A. Powell: 4 insects (397621).

Mr. Mark Power: 2 fossils (401006).

153
Dr. Floyd Preston: 5 butterflies (401761).

Dr. & Mrs. James E. Price: 13 bronze
vessels & 2 fragments (387073).

Dr. Wayne Price: 3 leeches (400237).

Ronald J. Priest: 4 moths (401720).

Eric Prokopi: 1 fossil crocodile bone
(396648).

Russell A. Rahn: 1,637 fossils (395032,
397219, 397620).

John E. Randall: 150+ mollusks (308008).

James Ranson, Jr.: 105 fossils (397935,
399727).

Dr. Pamela Rasmussen: 5 birds (398579,
397106).

Dr. Carlton Ray: 117+ worms (271533).

Dr. E. B. Reed: 2,224 crustaceans
(401032).

Dr. Richard Reeder: 1 snail (366844).

Chuck Regnier: 2 fossil vertebrates
(399148).

Alicia Dussan de Reichel: 114 artifacts
(385299).

Dr. Charles B. Reif: 20 crustaceans
(395986).

Marlin Rice: 1 beetle (398942).

Mark L. Rickerson: 1 fossil ankle bone
(398465).

Dr. J. Keith Rigby: 13 fossil sponges
(399098).

Edward Riley: 5 beetles (401925).

Dr. Nathan W. Riser: 10 worms
(395798).

Chris Robbins: 240 tektitess & 113 frag-
ments (398560, 398565).

J. W. Robbins: See also Chris Robbins
(398560).

Shane Robbins: See also Chris Rob-
bins(398565).

Mrs. Sandy Roberts: 2 fossil teeth
(400967).

Dr. Henry W. Robison: 43 crustaceans
(392588, 399399, 399465).

Dr. Edwin Roedder: 1 meteorite
(400060).

Mark Rogers: 2 minerals (396996).

Dr. David M. Rohr: 1 plant (397869).

Dr. Thomas J. Rossbach: 1 fossil (401022).

Dr. R. E. Roughley: 6 beetles (398906).

Bill Rudd: 1 crustacean (399460).

Richard Salisbury: 1 mollusk (396306).

Dr. Guillermo San Martin: 4 worms
(397356).

Dr. Takayu ki Sawaki: 4 minerals
(400738).

Dr. Reginald J. Scalaro: 5 fossils (399763).

154

Dr. Paul W. Schaefer: 1,788 insects
(398885).

George Scheller: 16 birds (399839).

Dr. Gary W. Schmelz: 2 fossils (397957,
399767).

Dr. EF. Schmid: 12 caddisflies (398427).

Dr. Justin O. Schmidt: 2 wasps (401729).

Sam Schmidt: 1 fossil sea cow skull cap
(397942).

Dr. Kurt Schmude: 20 beetles (401923).

Thomas M. Schneider: 2 quartzs
(398772).

Vincent P. Schneider: 1 fossil portion of
a seal bone (396674).

Dr. Michael D. Schwartz: 1 plant bug
(401683).

John B. Sciarra: 1 crab (397509).

Dr. P. J. B. Scott: 3 crustaceans (395977).

Dr. Marty Shankland: 6 worms (397358).

Dr. William D. Sheppard: 17 beetles
(401973).

Dr. Walter B. Sikora: 3 crustaceans
(395975).

E. Velarde Silva: 11 crustaceans (397472).

Gordon Simonson: 359 fossil vertebrates
(399147, 399744, 399784,

399806, 400934, 400966, 401008).

Ray Simonson: 12 fossil vertebrates
(398467).

Beverly Smith: 4 fossil vertebrates
(396687, 401580).

Mrs. Connie Smith: 3 fossil shark teeth
(396634).

Dr. Douglas G. Smith: 2 fossils (399185).

Dr. Ralph I. Smith: 4 worms (400243).

Cheryl A. Snelson: 1 fossil (401578).

Dr. I. G. Sohn: 1 fossil (399177).

Dr. Jiakun Song: 15 fishes (395701).

Dr. James E. Sorauf: 34 fossil corals
(398506).

Dr. Ronald K. Sorem: 2,500 manganese
specimens (385375).

Mark T. Southerland: 1,618 insects &
arthropods (399496).

Trent Spielman: 440 fossil vertebrates &
insects (396704, 401577).

Ron Stebler: 1 fossil (400992).

Debbie Steinberg: 50+ crustaceans
(397511).

Samantha Stevens: 3 gems (397043).

James O. Stevenson: 75 birds (398090).

John D. Stillinger: 6 minerals (400734).

Dr. Gualterio Sting]: 3 fossil plants
(399130).

Dr. Carl W. Stock: 19 fossils (398538).

Robert D. Storch: 15 quartz (396993).

Robert J. Stuart: 18 fossil sponges
(399091).

William C. Sturtevant: 1 Samoan fine
mat (387037).

Mme C. Sudre: 1 meteorite (398977).

Dr. J. Bolling Sullivan: 584 moths
(397566, 401700, 401747, 401982).

Mr. Gerald M. Szal: 20+ crustaceans
(401085).

Dr. Ichiro Takeuchi: 13 crustaceans
(399412).

Karen Tenenbaum: 2 minerals (397091).

Edward E. Terrell: 1 plant (397260).

Libbie Moody Thompson (Deceased),
Estate of: 2 diamond earrings & I
diamond pendant (397022).

Reginald Titmas: 1 bird (401026).

Dr. Alan Titus: 1 fossil (399775).

Dr. Radames Urtiaga: 14 bugs (398914).

Brad Van Scriver: 4 minerals (397082).

Dr. W. I. Van Tichelen: 11 minerals
(391456).

Dr. A. B. Vassilikou-Dova: 9 minerals
(398744).

Dr. Julio Parapar Vegas: 14 worms
(395785).

Dr. Beatrice Vogel: 489 misc. insects &
arthropods (401979).

Dr. Emily H. Vokes: 34 fossils (397916,
397958, 399766, 400993).

Dr. Charles M. Wahle: 3 echinoderms
(397754).

Dr. A. K. Walker: 4 wasps (401715).

Scott Walters: 2 fossil land mammal
tooth (398471, 399122).

Dr. Gerd Wappler: 1 mineral (397037).

Donald O. Ward: 1 fossil vertebra
(399158).

Dr. Lauck W. Ward: 4 fossils (400931,
400968, 401009).

Dr. Sylvia Watanabe: 39 fossils (397885,
399725).

Kenneth Webb: 4 fossil whale bones
(399170).

William F. Webb: 1 pair of carved
wooden doors (364373).

David Wells: 1 fossil (398516).

Michael Welzenbach: 1 fossil seal snout
(399800).

Michael Wendorf: 1 woman's skirt
(390899).

John Weske: 1 bird (398578).

Dr. Richard L. Westcott: 2 beetles
(003961).
Dr. Alfred G. Wheeler, Jr.: 810 bugs
(398944).

Tom Whiteley: 1 fossil (398486).

Dr. Nathaniel Whitney: 38 birds
(394966, 397093).

Ronald S. Wielgus: 38 moths & but-
terflies (398941).

Bob Wiest: 2 fossils (395639, 398514).

Dr. Garner L. Wilde: 95 fossils (399140).

Peter J. Wilkinson: 1 bird skin (398095).

Dr. Ronald S. Wilkinson: 1,312 misc.
insects (399890).

Gaye Williams: 22 fossil vertebrates
(398515).

Carol Jean Wolcott: 5 plants (397738).

Karin Wuertz-Schaefer: 3 birds (397118).

Dr. Ilan Yarom: 20 flies (401380).

Dr. Harry C. Yeatman: 21 crustaceans
(395931, 396001, 399463).

W. L. Yee: 64 flies (401722).

Dr. Frank N. Young: 94 beetles
(399889).

Larry Yucht: 1 fossil horse tooth (399151).

Dr. T. Zatwarnicki: 6 flies (401983).

Craig Zellers: 1 mineral (400727).

Dr. Helmut Zibrowius: 1 crustacean
(399417).

Dr. Michael Zimmerman: 10 beetles
(399509).

Dr. William J. Zinsmeister: 10 fossil
scallops (397922).

Vassil Zlatarski: 50+ corals (401493).

Dr. Victor A. Zullo: 1 fossil (397919).

Purchase

Dr. Vitor Becker: 3,550 moths (399495,
401963, 401964).

Gert M. Hatschbach: 1,853 plants
(375163).

Office of Environmental
Awareness

Donors of Financial Support

$ 50,000 or more

Swim Environmental Awareness

The Rockefeller Foundation

$10, 000 or more

The Stroud Foundation

National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration

National Fish and Wildlife Foundation

The David and Lucille Packard
Foundation

Smithsonian
Environmental Research
Center

Donors of Financial Support

$100, 000 or more

Philip D. Reed Foundation

Smithsonian Institution
Archives

Donors to the Collection

Mrs. Jackson Miles Abbott. Papers of
Jackson Miles Abbott.

Annette Aiello. Papers of George B.
Vogt.

American Association of Museums.
Records of the Association.

American Fisheries Society. Records of
the Society.

American Ornithologists’ Union.
Records of the Union.

American Society of Mammalogists.
Records of the Society.

Animal Behavior Society. Records of
the Society.

Biological Society of Washington.
Records of the Society.

Wallace J. Dyar. Papers of Wallace J.
Dyar.

Claire L. Eike. Papers of James W. Eike.

Kathryn J. Gloyd. Papers of Howard K.
Gloyd.

Arnold B. Grobman. Papers of Arnold
B. Grobman.

Pamela M. Henson. Papers of J. Laurens
Barnard.

Sally Spofford Hoyt. Papers of
Alexander Wetmore.

Charlene James-Duguid. Papers of Char-
lene James-Duguid.

National Geographic Society. William
M. Mann Film on the South Pacific,
1944.

David Raup. Papers of Thomas J. M.
Schopf.

Nathan Reingold. Papers of Nathan
Reingold.

S. Dillon Ripley. Papers of S. Dillon
Ripley.

Society of Vertebrate Paleonotology.
Records of the Society.

Daniel Jean Stanley. Papers of Daniel
Jean Stanley.

The Teaching Company. Superstar
Teachers Seminar Series.

Judy Tschorn. Papers of Pierce
Brodkorb.

United States Department of Agricul-
ture, Systematic Entomology
Laboratory. Papers of Barnard D.
Burks.

United States Department of Agricul-
ture, Systematic Entomology
Laboratory. Papers of Gordon Gordh.

United States Department of Agricul-
ture, Systematic Entomology
Laboratory. John Bernard Smith
Photographs.

Austin B. Williams. Papers of Austin
B. Williams.

Smithsonian Institution
Libraries

Donors of Financial Support

$10, 000 or more

The Dibner Fund

$1, 000 or more

Nada Kramer Fund
Research Publications International
Sverdrup Corporation

155
$500 or more

Barbara J. Smith

$250 or more

Anonymous

Frances D. Smyth

Paul Michael Taylor
Telesec Temporary Services

Donors of In-Kind Support

American Library Association. Design
and printing of symposium registra-
tion materials, “World's Fairs and

Modern Life.”

Ann M. Juneau. Decorative plants and

containers for the Museum of
Natural History Branch Library

Donors to the Collections

Individual Donors

Mr. Norbert Aas

Mrs. Jackson Miles Abbott
Dr. Joseph C. Adande

Mr. Mayo Adediran

Mr. John-Tokpabere Agberia
Mr. Jemi Alade

Mr. Brohim Alaoui

Ms. Kendrick Albert

Ms. Joey Anderson

Dr. Claude D. Ardouin
Dr. D. Ola Babalola

Prof. Emilio Battaglia

Ms. Sonja Begg

Mr. Sule Bello

Dr. Miriam Benabib

Ms. Tatiana Benfoughal
Mr. Don Berliner

Dr. Henry Y. Bernal

Dr. William Bickley

Dr. Zlatozar N. Boev

Ms. Asake Bomani

Mr. Q. David Bowers

Dr. Steven A. Brandt

Dr. Helia Bravo-Hollis
Mr. M. Ralph Browning
Mr. Jimoh Buraimoh

Dr. Herman Burssens

Mr. Carlos Zapata Bustamante
Mr. Bolaji Campbell

156

Ms. Eva Campbell

Ms. Rosemary Carroon
Ms. Jennifer Catron

Mr. Roberto B. Cavalcanti
Mr. Paul E. Ceruzzi

Mr. Eddie Chambers

Ms. Annie Cohen

Mr. Bruce B. Collette
Mr. David Condon

Mr. Reiner Cunz

Mr. Edwin DeBebs

Dr. Robert De Fillips

Dr. C. E. Dekesel

Mr. Rashid Diab

Mr. Douglas D. Dodge
Mr. Richard Doty

Mr. Francis Drew

Ms. Marie-Claude Dupre
Dr. Dan Eban

Mr. and Mrs. Charles A. Edwards
Dr. Osa Egonwa

Ms. Mary Louise Elder
Prof. Anton Escher

Mr. Thomas J. Evans

Ms. Christiane Falgayrettes
Mr. Marc Leo Felix

Mr. William E. Fischer, Jr.
Dr. Oliver S. Flint, Jr.
Mr. Kurt Fredriksson

Ms. Nancy J. Fuller

Prof. Alain Gallay

Mr. Paul E. Garber

Ms. Hollis Gentry

Mr. J. Whitfield Gibbons
Ms. Jane Mork Gibson
Mr. Frank B. Gilbreth, Jr.
Mr. William Gilkerson
Mrs. Coralee Gillilland
Mrs. Frances H. Gleason
Mr. and Mrs. Peter H. Guertler
Mr. Zhou Guoxing

Mr. Norman F. Hale

Mr. Robert L. Hall

Ms. Ethel Halpern

Dr. M. G. Harasewych
Ms. Scherry Harrah

Mrs. Lori Hejl

Mr. Thomas J. Henry

Ms. Yolanda Herrera

Mr. Gary F. Hevel

Ms. Juliet Higher

Mr. Donald Hoke

Mr. Walter Hopwood

Dr. Pascal J. Lmperato
Ms. Portia James

Mr. Gavin Jantjes

Ms. Ann Johnson

Dr. Dana J. Johnson

Mr. Paul Jung

Mr. Osahenya Kainebi
Mr. Martin R. Kalfatovic
Mr. F. Kalinowski

Dr. Abram Kanof

Mr. William H. Kearns
Mr. Frank L. Keller

Dr. Gary Kuhn

Mr. Deepak Kumar

Mrs. Phyllis Lane

Mr. Russell Lee

Ms. Iris Lenz

Dr. and Mrs. Robert Leonard
Dr. Elbert L. Little, Jr.
Mr. J. M. Lock

Dr. Wulf Lohse

Mr. Don Lopez

Ms. Alice Lourteig

Dr. Carlyle A. Luer

Mr. John Mack

Dr. Fidelis T. Masao

Mr. Brian H. Mason

Dr. K. M. Matthew

Dr. Jean Emile Mbot

Ms. Betty Meggers

Dr. A. S. Melnikova

Mr. Robert B. Meyer, Jr.
Mr. Tony Mhonda

Mrs. Roger A. Michaels
Dr. Mark Milburn

Dr. F. Mor

Dr. Joao M. Morais

Mr. Jim Moyer

Mr. Justin L. Nelson
Mrs. Karen Saylor Nelson
Dr. David A. Nickle

Mr. Alain Nicolas

Mr. Dan H. Nicolson
Mr. Barthosa Nkurumeh
Mr. Paulo Nogueira-Neto
Mr. Obiora Obieze

Mr. Moyo Okediji

Mr. Uche Okeke

Mr. Inalegwu Okwa

Mr. Kent Onah

Mr. Bruce Onobrakpeya
Mr. Idowu Orun

Mr. Harold L. Peterson
Mr. Gert Posselt

Mr. Jean-Aime Rakotoarisoa
Mr. and Mrs. Edward Reach
Mr. Harald A. Rehder
Dr. Jeffrey C. Reichwein
Mr. Arnold Reiner

Mr. Frank K. Ribelin

Pere Pau A. Ripolles

Dr. Allen Roberts

Prof. Cyril Rogers

Mr. David Root

Mr. E. Rotramel, Jr.

Mr. Frank H. Rutland

Mr. and Mrs. Randy Sandler
Mr. and Mrs. Alan Sandstrom
Mr. Nick Sasson

Mrs. Haruko Sawada

Mr. Bania Mahamadou Say
Mr. David E. Schenkman
Mr. Bert B. Schwind

Ms. Edda Seidl-Reiter

Mr. Dale Seppa

Mr. David H. Shayt

Dr. M.C. Shelesnyak

Mr. Alain Sinou

Mrs. John L. Sloand

Dr. J. Weldon Smith

Dr. Lyman B. Smith

Mr. Rudolf Sobernheim
Mr. I. G. Sohn

Dr. Victor Springer

Prof. V. N. Starodubtsev
Mrs. E. Clain Stefanelli
Mrs. E. H. Stevens

Drs. Constance and R. John Taylor
Dr. Mwizenge S. Tembo
Mr. Jacques Thomas

Dr. F. Christian Thompson
Dr. John Tristan

Dr. John J. Tzeng

Ms. Ada Udechukwu

Mr. Obiora Udeckukwu
Mr. Reuben Ugbine

Ms. Chinwe Uwatse

Mr. Daniel Vangroenweghe
Mr. Tom VanPoole

Mr. Robert M. Vogel

Dr. Charlotte von Graffenreid
Mr. Bert Waggott

Mr. Gregory J. Wallance
Dr. J. Benedict Warren
Ms. Ellen B. Wells
Prof. J. W. Wells

Mr. Eric Wemega-Kwawu
Mr. Ed Wesley

Mr. Nicholas Wetton

Gen. and Mrs. John A. Wickham, Jr.

Ms. Jean R. Williams
Mr. Stephen Williams

Ms. Beatrice Winne
Mr. Frank H. Winter
Mr. Franklin Wood
Mr. E. T. Wooldridge
Ms. Judith A. Wright
Ms. Helena Wright
Mr. Salif Yonaba

Ms. Merilee Young
Mr. Gao Yu-Ren

Mr. George R. Zug
Dr. Richard L. Zusi

Corporate Donors

Austrian Cultural Institute, New York,
New York

Belgolaise Bank, Brussels, Belgium

Boston Museum of Fine Arts, Boston

The Caribbean Cultural Center, New
York, New York

Cassa di Risparmio di Genova e Im-
peria, New York, New York

Didi Museum, Lagos, Nigeria

Embassy of France, Harare, Zimbabwe

Gallery 21, Johannesburg, South Africa

The George Washington University,
Washington, D.C.

Gilding Conservation Symposium,
Newburgh, New York

Hartford Steam Boiler Inspection &
Insurance Company, Hartford,
Connecticut

Hump Pilots Association, Crownsville,
Maryland

Institut du Monde Arabe, Paris, France

Institute for Contemporary Art, Lon-
don, England

Institute for Folklore Research, Zagreb,
Yugoslavia

Insticutum Canarium, Hallein, Austria

Italian Cultural Institute, Lagos, Nigeria

J.C. Nichols Company, Kansas City,
Missouri

Koninklijk Instituut Voor de Tropen,
The Netherlands

Le Volcan, Le Havre, France

The Library of Congress, Washington,
D:¢:

Manhasset Bay Yacht Club, Port
Washington, New York

Marble Institute of America, Far-
mington, Michigan

Ministere de l’enseignement superieur
et de la recherche scientifique,
Kigali, Rwanda

Musee des arts decoratifs de Bordeaux,
Bordeaux, France

Museo de la Fabrica Nacional de
Moneda y Timbre, Madrid, Spain

Museu Nacional da Moeda, Maputo,
Mozambique

Museu Nacional de Anthropologia,
People's Republic of Angola

Museum Trustee Committee for Re-
search & Development, Inc.,
Washington, D.C.

National Council for Arts & Culture,
Banjul, The Gambia

National Heritage Conservation Com-
mission, Livingstone, Zambia

National Museum of African Art,
Washington, D.C.

National Museum of Colonial History,
Aba, Imo State, Nigeria

National Park Service, Washington,
D.C.

Northwood Heritage Press, Irvine,
California

O'Donnell Publications, Alexandria,
Virginia

Odebrecht S.A., Rio de Janeiro, Brazil

Philadelphia Maritime Museum,
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

Port Elizabeth Technikon Library, Port
Elizabeth, South Africa

Regeszeti Intezete, Budapest, Hungary

Rembrandt Van Rijn Art Foundation,
Stellenbosch, South Africa

Smithsonian Institution Women's Coun-
cil, Washington, D. C.

Smithsonian Tropical
Research Institute

Donors of Financial Support
$1,000,000 or more

Glenn O. Tupper

$500, 000 or more

Glenn O. Tupper

157
$100,000 or more

John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur
Foundation

Andrew M. Mellon Foundation

National Science Foundation

$50,000 or more

Government of Germany
Government of Norway

$25, 000 or more

Citibank N.A.

Exxon Corporation

General Service Foundation

Turner Foundation

USDA Forest Service, Tropical Forestry
Program

$5, 000 or more

Nairobi Hilton (in kind)
National Geographic Society

$1, 000 or more

Coca Cola, Panama

$500 or more

Mystic Marine Life Aquarium
Mildred and Harry Silberglied
Cerveza Panama (in kind)

$100 or Less

Mr. and Mrs. Richard Andrews
Mr. John C. Barker

Ms. Barbara Bauman

Mrs. Nora Cott

Mrs. Margaret S. Croft

Mr. and Mrs. Bruce Douglas
Mr. and Mrs. Norman Dresner
Mr. and Mrs. Nicah Krichevsky
Mr. and Mrs. John Overholt
Ms. Lois Pieper

Ms. Marguerite V. Schneeberger
Mr. and Mrs. G.C. Weatherhead

158

Arts and
Humanities

Archives of American Art

Donors of Financial Support

$10, 000 or more

Mr. and Mrs. Eli Broad

The Brown Foundation, Inc.

The Florence Gould Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Richard A. Manoogian

$5, 000 or more

The Barnes Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Max N. Berry

Mr. and Mrs. Gerald E. Buck
Mr. and Mrs. Gilbert S. Edelson
Mrs. Walter B. Ford

Mrs. Daniel Fraad

Mrs. Eugenio Garza Laguera

Mr. and Mrs. Hugh Halff, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Maurice H. Katz
Mr. and Mrs. Meredith J. Long
Miss Julienne M. Michel

Mr. and Mrs. Meyer P. Potamkin
Mr. and Mrs. Richard Roob

Mr. and Mrs. John N. Rosekrans, Jr.
The Salomon Foundation, Inc.
Mr. and Mrs. Alan E. Schwartz
Mr. and Mrs. Richard J. Schwartz
Mr. and Mrs. Robert EF. Shapiro
John Sloan Memorial Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. A. Alfred Taubman
Mr. and Mrs. Keith S. Wellin

$1, 000 or more

Mr. and Mrs. Arthur G. Altschul
The Barra Foundation, Inc.

Mrs. Edwin A. Bergman

Mr. James H. Biben

Dr. Philip L. Brewer

Dr. and Mrs. John T. Cobb

Mrs. Susan L. Cullman

Dr. and Mrs. Francis de Marneffe
Mr. and Mrs. Joel S. Ehrenkranz
Ms. Geraldine Fabrikant

Mr. and Mrs. Arthur A. Feder
Harvey S. Firestone, Jr. Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. Charles T. Fisher III

Mr. and Mrs. Donald G. Fisher
Mr. and Mrs. Julian Ganz, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Peter E. Haas
Evelyn A. J. Hall Charitable Trust
Dr. and Mrs. Reginald EF Harnett
Mr. Frederick G. L. Huetwell
Mrs. Philip Iselin

Mr. and Mrs. Richard J. Janes
Mr. and Mrs. David Jensen

Dr. Helen Jessup

Mr. and Mrs. Dwight M. Kendall
Mr. and Mrs. Peter L. Malkin
Robert and Jane Meyerhoff
Benjamin Moore & Co.

Mr. and Mrs. Roy R. Neuberger
The Times Mirror Foundation
Mr. Duane A. Wakeham

Mrs. Shelby White

Mrs. James Willis

Mr. and Mrs. Alfred S. Wilsey

$500 or more

Dr. Stephen Andrus

Mr. Louis C. Baker

Mr. Richard Brown Baker
Mrs. F. Henry Berlin

Mrs. George FE. Berlinger

Mr. and Mrs. Charles L. Biggs
Mrs. Peter S. Bing

Mrs. Corda Caplan

Mrs. Korda Caplan

Dr. and Mrs. John M. Carroll
Ms. Elizabeth M. Chapin
Paula Cooper

Mrs. Polly Blakeley Davidson
Mr. David L. Davies

Mrs. Charles H. Davis II

Ms. Gabriella De Ferrari

Mrs. John de Menil

Michael and Dudley Del Balso
Dr. Charles C. Dickinson II
Mr. Barney A. Ebsworth

Mr. and Mrs. Allan B. Ecker
Mr. Christian P. Erdman

Ms. Stella Fischbach

Mr. and Mrs. Max M. Fisher

Mr. and Mrs. Lawrence A. Fleischman

Mrs. Joyce B. Franke

Mrs. Helena Fraser

Mrs. Frederick Gardner

Mr. and Mrs. Gordon P. Getty
Mr. and Mrs. Yale Ginsburg
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas B. Green
Mrs. Robert S. Greenbaum
Ms. C. Grider

Mrs. Pauline L. Harrison

Mr. Joseph Helman

Mrs. M. Hugh Hinton

Mr. Benjamin D. Holloway
Mr. R. P. Berglund

Mrs. Morris I. Jaffe

Ms. Linda B. Janovic

Mrs. Maxine C. Johnson

Mr. Harry Kahn

Mr. Walter Keating

Martin and Cis Maisel Kellman
Mrs. Kathleen Kendrick

Ms. Joan Peterson Klimann
Mrs. James D. Klingbeil

Mrs. Estelle M. Konheim

Mr. and Mrs. Richard Kughn
Ronald and Mary Lamparter
Mr. and Mrs. Alvin S. Lane
Mrs. Thomas Lee

Mr. and Mrs. Herbert C. Lee
Ms. Sandy Lepore

Mr. and Mrs. Sydney Lewis

Mr. and Mrs. Robert K. Lifton
Mr. and Mrs. George M. Luhn
Mrs. Sam Maddux

Mrs. Barbara M. Marshall

Mr. Daniel Q. Mills

Mr. and Mrs. Stuart G. Moldaw
Mrs. Gloria R. Oppenheimer
Mrs. Harris K. Oppenheimer
Mr. and Mrs. Samuel Oroshnik
Mr. and Mrs. Bernard E. Pincus
Mr. and Mrs. Gerald Richter
Mr. and Mrs. Robert B. Rosowski
Mrs. Harry Rubin

Mrs. Sunne Savage-Neuman
Ms. Judith M. G. Sayers

Mr. and Mrs. Peter L. Sheldon
Dr. Lawrence Thornton Shields
Mrs. Shelda Soble

Mrs. Maureen Sullivan Stemberg
Alan and Nancy Stone

Mrs. Elizabeth Strong-Cuevas
Mr. and Mrs. George Strumbos
Mrs. Rebekah A. Taube

Mrs. Josephine R. Turner

Ms. Carmela R. Visco

Ms. Susan J. Visco

Mr. and Mrs. Jerome Westheimer
Mrs. Wallace S. Wilson

Mr. and Mrs. Warren R. Woodward
Mr. Richard T. York

$250 or more

Mr. William C. Agee

Dr. Lourdes V. Andaya

Mrs. William Arthur

Mrs. Patricia Auer

Alice O'Neill Avery

Mr. and Mrs. R. Stanton Avery
Babcock Galleries

Miss Robin Bacci

Mr. James R. Bakker

Mr. W. N. Banks

Mrs. Will Barnet

Mr. and Mrs. Gifford R. Beal
Mr. Geoffrey C. Beaumont

Mr. and Mrs. William G. Beaumont
Ms. Carole Bellis

Mr. and Mrs. Donald Benyas
Mr. and Mrs. John Berggruen
Mr. and Mrs. Donald J. Blum
Mr. and Mrs. Harold Blumenstein
Mrs. Helen A. Blurock

Nancy and Roger Boas

Mrs. Harry Bond

Mr. and Mrs. Paul Borman

Mr. Philip E. Bowles

Ms. Rena A. Bransten

Ms. Renee Burrows

Ms. Carolyn Fulgham Butcher
Mr. John Williams Butler, Jr.
Butterfield & Butterfield

Mrs. Martin L. Butzel

Mr. and Mrs. David M. Chamberlin
Christie’s Associates

Mrs. Chisolm Cole

Mrs. Lammot DuPont Copeland
Mrs. Sylvia Fairn Cornish

Dr. and Mrs. J. Holland Cotter
Mr. and Mrs. Raymond M. Cracchiolo
Mrs. F. Arnold Daum

Mrs. Louise M. Davies

Mrs. Shirley R. Davis

Mrs. Maria Mercedes de Medina
Mr. and Mrs. James C. De Woody
Mr. and Mrs. Richard P. Doerer
Mr. and Mrs. Dale F. Dorn

Ms. Susan H. Douglass

Mrs. Harriet B. Drake

Mr. and Mrs. Myron Du Bain
Mr. Lawrence F. Du Mouchelle
Mr. and Mrs. Howard M. Dubin
Mrs. Dorothy Dunitz

Mr. and Mrs. Sam Edelman
Mrs. Beatrice Elkin

Mrs. Virginia Escher

Mr. Burton D. Farbman

Mrs. Evelyn W. Farnum

Ms. Elizabeth C. Fee

Mr. Alfred Feinman

Mrs. Melvin L. Finch

Mr. George Hopper Fitch

Mr. and Mrs. Arthur Fleischer, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Frederick D. Forsch
Mrs. Irma L. Fraad

Mr. and Mrs. Stuart Frankel

Mr. and Mrs. Edward P. Frolich
Mr. Blair F. Fuller

Miss Elizabeth H. Fuller

Mr. Larry Gagosian

Mr. Robert J. Gallo

Mrs. Viola Goldberg

Mr. and Mrs. Richard N. Goldman
Ms. Barbara Goldsmith

Mr. and Mrs. Robert C. Graham, Jr.
Mrs. Gerold M. Grodsky

Ms. Victoria Gwin

Mr. Philip J. Hahn

Mr. and Mrs. David Handleman
Ms. Constance Bowles Hart

Mr. and Mrs. E. H. Heaton

Mr. Larry Heaton

Mr. and Ms. Scott R. Heldfond
Mrs. Claire W. Henriques

Mr. and Mrs. Raymond J. Horowitz
Mr. and Mrs. James Humphry III
Inchbald School of Design

Mr. and Mrs. Leonard C. Jaques
Mr. and Mrs. John Lowell Jones
Dr. and Mrs. Charles Kessler

Mr. and Mrs. John Klingenstein
Mr. and Mrs. Robert P. Kogod
Mr. and Mrs. Nat Korash
Kraushaar Galleries

The Lachaise Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. David Leader

Ms. Sandra Leff

Mrs. Harry Lenart

Dr. and Mrs. Irving H. Leopold
Mr. Putnam Livermore

Mrs. Russell Lynes

Mrs. Marion Maker

Mrs. Robert A. Malin

Mrs. James S. Marcus

Mr. and Mrs. Haig G. Mardikian
Mrs. and Mrs. Tom FE. Marsh
Mrs. William A. Marsteller

Ms. Charlotte W. Martin

Mr. Stephen Mazoh

Ms. Thierry McCormick

Mr. Jay D. McEvoy

159
Mrs. Nan Tucker McEvoy

Ms. Elaine McKeon

Mr. Robert A. McNeil

Mrs. Peter Michael

Mr. Richard Milhender

Mr. and Mrs. Clinton Mills
Mrs. Edward P. Moore

Mr. and Mrs. Mervin Morris
Mr. and Mrs. Lester S. Morse, Jr.
Mr. Jack Nash

Mrs. John U. Nef

Mrs. Robert M. Newhouse

Mrs. Annalee Newman

Mr. and Mrs. Irving Nusbaum
Mrs. Roy Nutt

Dr. and Mrs. Kevin T. O’Donnell
Mr. Calvin W. Odom

Dr. and Mrs. Jerome D. Oremland
Dr. and Mrs. David B. Pall

Dr. Giuseppe Panza di Buomo
Mrs. Henry Pearlman

Ms. Kathleen S. Pomeroy

Mr. and Mrs. Mark Pomeroy
Mr. and Mrs. Hughes L. Potiker
Mr. and Mrs. John A. Pritzker
Mrs. James A. Rawley

Mr. and Mrs. Dana M. Raymond
Mrs. Paul A. Reid

Mrs. John P. Renshaw

Ms. Leanne B. Roberts

Mr. and Mrs. John Robinson
Mr. and Mrs. Donald J. Robinson
Mr. and Mrs. Irving Rose

Mr. and Mrs. Adolph Rosekrans
Mrs. John S. Rosekrans

Dr. Shirley Sugerman Rosenberg
Mr. and Mrs. Mike Rosenthal
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas A. Rosse
Mrs. Madeleine H. Russell

The San Francisco Foundation
Mrs. Walter Scheuer

Mr. and Mrs. Sherwin Schreier
Mr. and Mrs. Norman Schultz
Mrs. Adolph Schuman

Mr. and Mrs. Charles Schwab
Mr. and Mrs. Frederic A. Sharf
Dr. and Mrs. Robert R. Silver
Ms. Barbara Slifka

Mrs. Betty S. Smith

Mrs. J. Henry Smith

Mr. and Mrs. Howard Smits
Ms. Karen Smits

Mr. and Mrs. Philip A. Straus
Mr. B. E. Sullivan

Mr. and Mrs. David J. Supino

160

Ms. Christine Suppes

Mr. and Mrs. Richard L. Swig
Mr. James FE. Thacher

Mss. J. J. Tolson

Mr. and Mrs. Edward C. Topham
Mrs. Helen S. Tucker

Mrs. G. B. Tweedy

Mr. and Mrs. Walter Untermeyer, Jr.
Dr. and Mrs. Lawrence Usher

Mr. Abbot W. Vose

Mr. Robert C. Vose III

Mrs. Evelyn R. Wagstaff-Callahan
Mr. and Mrs. Marshall I. Wais
Mr. and Mrs. Brooks Walker, Jr.
Mrs. William C. Wallstein

Mrs. Joan Washburn

Mr. and Mrs. Cameron Waterman
Ms. Suzanne C. White

Mr. Eli Wilner

Mr. and Mrs. James H. Wineman
Ms. Mary M. Wohlford

Dr. William J. Wolfenden, Jr.
Mr. Clarence J. Woodard

Simon and Paula Young

Mr. Roy Zurkowski

Freer Gallery of Art

Donors of Financial Support

$500, 000 or more

B. Y. Lam Foundation

$100, 000 or more

Nomura Cultural Foundation
Nomura Securities Co., Led.

$50,000 or more

Henry Luce Foundation, Inc.

Honorable and Mrs. Daniel Patrick
Moynihan

The Island Fund in the New York Com-
munity Trust

$10,000 or more

Art Research Foundation
Ms. Kathleen A. Preciado

$5,000 or more

The Ellen Bayard Weedon Foundation
Miss Narinder Kaur Keith and Miss
Rajinder Kaur Keith

$1,000 or more

Anonymous

Dr. and Mrs. Robert S. Feinberg
Mr. Rodney P. Frelinghuysen
Dr. Thomas Lawton

Mrs. Gam B. Louie

$500 or more

Ms. Barbara Porterfield
Dr. and Mrs. Kenneth X. Robbins

Donors to the Collection

Anonymous. Vietnamese ceramic plate;
15th - 16th c. (1991.55).

Anonymous. Japanese blue glass bottle;
19th c. (1991.56).

Anonymous. Japanese print; The War-
rior-Painter Miyamoto Musashi; by
Toyokuni; (1991.57).

Anonymous. Japanese brass crucifix
with Buddhist figure (SC-M-67).

Anonymous. Japanese brass crucifix
with Buddhist figure (SM-M-68).

Anonymous. Japanese handscroll; fac-
simile (SC-RE-30).

Anonymous. Pen drawing of silver iris
sculpture in collection (SC-GR-818).

Ken J. J. Baars. Thai ceramic jar;
Sawankhalok ware; 15th - 16th c.
(1991.45).

Mr. Allan S. Chait and Mrs. Marion C.
Howe. Chinese ceramic vase; blue
and white; Kangxi period (1991.46).

Mr. and Mrs. Edwin J. Clapp. Chinese
ceramic Boar; terra cotta with dark
amber glaze; (7th - roth c. (1992.49).

Mrs. Julia Curtis. Chinese ceramic vase;
Kangxi period (1991.48).

Mrs. Barbaralee Diamonstein-
Spielvogel. Chinese ceramic dish;
blue and white; 18th c. (1991.49).

Mrs. Barbaralee Diamonstein-
Spielvogel. Chinese ceramic dish;
blue and white; 18th c. (1991.50).
Mr. Pierre Durand. Chinese ceramic
vase; blue and white; Kangxi period
(1991.51).

Mr. Pierre Durand. Chinese ceramic
covered jars, part of a 5-piece garni-
ture set; blue and white; Kangxi
period (1992.47.3ab-.sab).

Mr. Pierre Durand. Pair of Chinese
ceramic plates; blue and white;
Kangxi period (1992.48.1-.2).

Mr. Robert Ellsworth. Chinese bronze
plaque; Yunnanese; early Han
Dynasty (SC-B-498).

Mr. Robert Ellsworth. Chinese brass
animal figure; Yunnanese (SC-M-70).

Mrs. Ruth Meyer Epstein. Chinese
ceramic bow] with Sanskrit inscrip-
tion; 19th c. (1992.38).

Mrs. Ruth Meyer Epstein. Chinese
metalwork head of a Bodhisattva;
uth c. (1992.39).

Mrs. Ruth Meyer Epstein. Chinese
painting; Tartar Slave Pasturing a
Horse; Hanging scroll; 15th c.
(1992.40).

Mrs. Ruth Meyer Epstein. Chinese
painting; Luohan; Hanging scroll; ca.
1400 (1992.41).

Mrs. Ruth Meyer Epstein. Chinese
painting; Traveling South through
Snow-Covered Mountains; Hanging
scroll by Zhou Duo; 18th c. (1992.42).

Mrs. Ruth Meyer Epstein. Chinese
painting; Two Fighting Water-Buf-
falos; Hanging scroll; 13th - 15th c.
(1992-43).

Mrs. Ruth Meyer Epstein. Chinese
painting; Joys of Fishing Among
Streams and Mountains; Hanging
scroll; mid-18th c. (1992.44).

Mrs. Ruth Meyer Epstein. Chinese
painting; Looking at Flowering Plums
and Reading; Fan painting; 14th - 15th
c. (1992.45).

Mrs. Ruth Meyer Epstein. Bronze bust
of Agnes Meyer by Despiau (SC-M-
69).

Mrs. Ruth Meyer Epstein. Chinese
ceramic bow] with Sanskrit Inscrip-
tion. One of a pair. (Gift to Study
Collection).

Dr. Kurt Gitter and Alice R. Yelen.
Japanese Painting; Hanging scroll;
Bodhidharma by Nantembo; 19th c.
(1992.29).

Dr. Kurt Gitter and Alice R. Yelen.
Japanese Painting; Hanging scroll;
Landscape by Kameda Bosai; 18th -
19th c. (1992.30).

Estate of Elizabeth Hamm Glass.
Chinese ceramic bottle; Cizhou ware;
dated 1341 (1991.15).

Estate of Elizabeth Hamm Glass.
Korean ceramic duck-shaped water-
dropper; 12th c. (1991.16).

Estate of Elizabeth Hamm Glass.
Chinese stone sculpture; tablet
carved with garden scene; one of a
pair; 17th - 18th c. (1991.17).

Estate of Elizabeth Hamm Glass.
Chinese stone sculpture; tablet
carved with garden scene; one of a
pair; 17th - 18th c. (1991.18).

Mr. and Mrs. Alfred Grigis. Korean
painting; 10-fold screen; Palace
ceremony; 18th - 19th c. (1992.20).

Mr. and Mrs. Alfred Grigis. Korean
painting; 8-fold screen; Birds and
Flowers; 18th - 19th c. (1992.21).

Mr. John Gruber. Chinese ceramic
bowl; one of a pair; Kangxi period
(1992.3).

Mr. John Gruber. Chinese ceramic
bowl; one of a pair; Kangxi period
(1992.4).

Mr. John Gruber. Chinese ceramic
dragon dish; one of a pair; Kangxi
period (1992.5).

Mr. John Gruber. Chinese ceramic
dragon dish; one of a pair; Kangxi
period (1992.6).

Mr. John Gruber. Chinese ceramic
dragon dish; one of a pair; Kangxi
period (1992.7)

Mr. John Gruber. Chinese ceramic
dragon dish; one of a pair; Kangxi
period (1992.8).

Therese and Erwin Harris. Chinese jade
openwork pendant; ca. 3000-2500
B.C. (1991.52).

Mr. and Mrs. Victor Hauge. Japanese
painting; 6-fold screen; Rice Planting;
early 17th c. (1991.53).

Mr. and Mrs. Osborne Hauge. Japanese
lacquer box showing lakeside
scenery; makie-e; Momoyamo period
(1991.54).

Mr. and Mrs. Osborne Hauge. Japanese
ceramic tea-leaf storage jar; Tamba
ware; 17th c. (1992.37).

Olga Hirshhorn. Japanese miniature
wooden masks by Kano Tessai; 1859.
(SC-W-19.1-.20)

Noriyushi Horiuchi. Chinese bronze sec-
tions for study. (SC-B-497).

Mrs. Maureen Jacoby. Chinese ceramic
tripod incense burner; 16th c. (1991.70).

Mrs. Maureen Jacoby. Korean ceramic
cup and cupstand; 12th c. (1991.71ab).

Mrs. Maureen Jacoby. Korean ceramic
bowl; uth c. (1991.72).

Mrs. Maureen Jacoby. Chinese ceramic
jac; 7th - 10th c. (1991.73).

Mrs. Maureen Jacoby. Chinese ceramic
conical cup; 10th -12th c. (1991.74).

Mrs. Maureen Jacoby. Chinese ceramic
cup; 9th - 13th c. (1991.75).

Mrs. Maureen Jacoby. Korean ceramic
bottle; 18th c. (1991.76).

Mrs. Maureen Jacoby. Chinese ceramic
Dehua ware tripod incense burner
(1991.77abc).

Mrs. Maureen Jacoby. Korean ceramic
dish (1991.78).

Mrs. Maureen Jacoby. Chinese ceramic
square cup; 14th - 17th c. (1991.79).

Mrs. Maureen Jacoby. Korean ceramic
seal-box with cover (1991.80ab).

Mrs. Maureen Jacoby. Korean ceramic
seal-box with cover (1991.81ab).

Mrs. Maureen Jacoby. Korean ceramic
seal-box with cover (1991.82ab).

Mrs. Maureen Jacoby. Korean ceramic
brush holder; 18th c. (1991.83).

Mrs. Maureen Jacoby. Korean ceramic
cup and cupstand (1991.84ab).

Mrs. Maureen Jacoby. Korean ceramic
bowl; 15th - 16th c. (1991.85).

Mrs. Maureen Jacoby. Chinese ceramic
bortle; 14th c. (1991.86).

Mrs. Maureen Jacoby. Korean ceramic
bowl] with cover; Unified Silla Period
(1991.87ab).

Mrs. Maureen Jacoby. Korean ceramic
Maebyong vase (1991.88).

Mrs. Maureen Jacoby. Chinese ceramic
censer; blue and white; Kangxi
period (1992.25).

Mrs. Maureen Jacoby. Thai ceramic jar
from Suphanburi kiln (1992.26).

Mrs. Maureen Jacoby. Chinese ceramic
bottle-vase; blue and white; Kangxi
period (1992.46).

Mrs. Maureen Jacoby. Chinese ceramic
bowl; gift to Study Collection.

I6I
Mrs. Maureen Jacoby. Chinese ceramic
cup; gift to Study Collection.

Mrs. Maureen Jacoby. Chinese ceramic in-
cense burner; gift to Scudy Collection.

Mrs. Maureen Jacoby. Chinese ceramic
saucer; gift to Study Collection.

Mrs. Maureen Jacoby. Chinese ceramic
bow]; gift to Study Collection.

Mrs. Maureen Jacoby. Chinese ceramic
bowl; gift to Study Collection.

Mrs. Maureen Jacoby. Chinese ceramic
jar; gift to Study Collection.

Mrs. Maureen Jacoby. American

ceramic vase; gift to Study Collection.

Lawrence Klein. Japanese painting;
Hanging scroll by Tomioka Tessai;
late 19th c. (1992.22).

Lawrence Klein. Japanese calligraphy;
Hanging scroll by Ono Kozan; 1906
(1992.23).

Lawrence Klein. Japanese painting;
Hanging scroll by Hokusai; 18th -
19th c. (1992.24).

Estate of Isabel S. Kurtz. Japanese
ceramic ginger jar with plum blos-
soms (1991.19ab).

Estate of Isabel S. Kurtz. Japanese
ceramic bowl showing Mt. Fuji
(1991.20).

Estate of Isabel S. Kurtz. Japanese
ceramic red and gold bottle; Kutani
ware (1991.21).

Estate of Isabel $. Kurtz. Japanese
ceramic blue glazed bottle (1991.22).

Estate of Isabel S. Kurtz. Japanese
ceramic jar with copper-red glaze
(1991.23).

Estate of Isabel S. Kurtz. Japanese
ceramic bottle with copper-red glaze
(1991.24).

Estate of Isabel S$. Kurtz. Japanese
ceramic bottle with purple glaze
(1991.25).

Estate of Isabel S. Kurtz. Japanese
ceramic bottle with purple-brown
glaze (1991.26).

Estate of Isabel S. Kurtz. Japanese
ceramic vase with pink glaze
(1991.27).

Estate of Isabel S. Kurtz. Japanese
ceramic vase with dark blue glaze
(1991.28).

Estate of Isabel S. Kurtz. Japanese
ceramic vase with copper-red glaze
(1991.29).

162

Estate of Isabel S. Kurtz. Japanese
ceramic vase with mottled red-blue
glaze (1991.30).

Estate of Isabel S. Kurtz. Japanese
ceramic vase with pink and gray
glaze (1991.31).

Estate of Isabel $. Kurtz. Japanese ceramic
vase with yellow glaze (1991.32).

Estate of Isabel S. Kurtz. Japanese ceramic
vase with blue-black glaze (1991.33).
Estate of Isabel $. Kurtz. Japanese ceramic

bottle with orange glaze (1991.34).

Estate of Isabel S. Kurtz. Japanese
ceramic bottle; plum with ice pattern
in cobalt (1991.35).

Estate of Isabel S. Kurtz. Japanese
ceramic bottle with tomato-red glaze
(1991.36).

Estate of Isabel S. Kurtz. Japanese
ceramic bottle with turquoise glaze
(1991.37).

Estate of Isabel $. Kurtz. Japanese
ceramic jar with pink glaze (1991.38).

Estate of Isabel S. Kurtz. Japanese
ceramic jar with purple glaze
(1991.39).

Estate of Isabel S. Kurtz. Japanese
ceramic covered box with green glaze
(1991.40ab).

Estate of Isabel S. Kurtz. Japanese
ceramic peach-shaped bowl (1991.41).

Estate of Isabel S. Kurtz. Japanese
ceramic vase with brown glaze
(1991.42).

Estate of Isabel S. Kurtz. Japanese
ceramic miniature vase with orange
glaze (1991.43).

Estate of Isabel S. Kurtz. Japanese
ceramic vase with herons and reeds
(1991.44).

Mrs. Helen D. Lally. Chinese ceramic
jardiniere; blue and white; Kangxi
period (1991.58).

Mrs. Helen D. Lally. Chinese ceramic
vase; blue and white; Kangxi period;
one of a pair (1991.59).

Helen D. Lally. Chinese ceramic vase;
blue and white; Kangxi period; one
of a pair (1991.60).

Helen D. Lally. Chinese ceramic Yen-
yen vase; blue and white; Kangxi
period (1991.61).

Helen D. Lally. Chinese ceramic vase;
blue and white; Kangxi period
(1991.62).

Ann M. Lanier. Chinese ceramic large
dish; Kangxi period (1991.63).

Mrs. Joan Lebold and Mr. Jerome A.
Cohen. Chinese ceramic dish; blue
and white; early 17th c. (1991.47).

Lesley R. Levine. Chinese ceramic proto-
Yue ware lamp; 4th c. (1991.64).

Lesley R. Levine. Chinese ceramic bowl;
Yue ware; 10th c. (1991.65).

Lesley R. Levine. Chinese ceramic bowl;
Cizhou ware; 12th - 13th c. (1991.66).

Lesley R. Levine. Korean ceramic bowl;
i9th c. (1991.67).

Lucy L. Lo. Chinese calligraphy by Shen
Tseng-chih; ink on paper (1991.69).

Stanley Love. Japanese votive paint-
ings; set of six (SC-PA-185 through
SC-PA-190).

Jack Lydman. Chinese ceramic bottle;
blue and white; early 17th c. (1992.33).

Jack Lydman. Pair of Chinese ceramic
plates; blue and white; 17th - 18th c.
(1992.34.1-.2).

Jack Lydman. Chinese ceramic plate; blue
and white; 17th - 18th c. (1992.35).

Jack Lydman. Chinese ceramic plate;
blue and white; 17th - 18th c.
(1992.36).

Forrest McGill. 28 Dutch tile fragments
collected from the Wihan Somdet
Palace in Ayutthaya; gift to Study
Collection.

Forrest McGill. 23 glass fragments col-
lected from the Wihan Somdet
Palace in Ayutthaya; gift to Study
Collection.

National Gallery of Art. Japanese callig-
raphy; Dojo-si Engi (SC-RE-29ab).

Mr. and Mrs. Charles Pope. Set of 6 In-
dian paintings from Kavi Priya of
Keshav Das; ca. 1640 (1991.89-
1991.9455).

Mrs. John Alexander Pope. Japanese
ceramic jar; Edo period (1992.1).

Mrs. John Alexander Pope. Chinese
ceramic bowl; Kangxi period (1992.2).

Sanai lida Reeves. Japanese painting;
Scholar en route to the retreat of a friend;
Handscroll by Ike Taiga; 18th c. (SC-
PA-184).

Sanai lida Reeves. Japanese painting;
Mr. Fuji with poem; Handscroll by
Sengai; 18th - 19th c. (SC-PA-183).

Andy Saylor. Japanese sake cups with
saucers in original wooden box. Made
for the coronation of the Taisho
Emperor; gift to Study Collection.

Estate of Libbie Moody Thompson.
Chinese ceramic beaker-shaped vase;
Kangxi period (1991.13).

Estate of Libbie Moody Thompson.
Chinese ceramic apple green vase;
Kangxi period (1991.14).

Paul Walter. Pair of Chinese ceramic
vases; blue and white; Qing Dynasty
(1992.27-1-.2).

Donors of In-Kind Support

Tokyo National Research Institute of
Cultural Properties. Repair of paint-
ings from Freer collection ($128,000).

Arthur M. Sackler Gallery

Donors of Financial Support

$100, 000 or more

Mrs. Else Sackler

$10, 000 or more

The Japan Foundation

Dr. David Khalili

Nippon Express

The Arthur M. Sackler Foundation
U.S.-Korea Foundation

$5,000 or more

Anonymous

Anonymous

Mr. Lin Chung Pak

Mrs. Leo Simon and Mr. Stephen Simon

$1,000 or more
Mr. and Mrs. Willard G. Clark
Friends of Free China, Inc.

Star Trading & Marine, Inc.
Man-shih Yang

$500 or more

Mr. and Mrs. Benjamin Sokol

$250 or more

Ms. Beverly L. Pierce

Donors to the Collection

Anonymous. Japanese porcelain jar
with design of pomegranates; 20th c.
(S1991.167).

Anonymous. Chinese Jade Cup; 19th -
2oth c. (S1992.1).

Anonymous. Chinese Lacquer Box con-
taining 8 Inksticks; c. late 1870's
(1992.4).

Anonymous. Chinese Moulded Round
Ink Disk with design of Dragon and
Phoenix; 17th c. (S1992.5)

Anonymous. Korean hanging scroll;
14th - 15th c. ($1992.11).

Saul and Elizabeth C. Baran. Japanese
ceramic platter with Design of Deer;
c. 1956 (S1991.159).

A. Peter Burleigh. Nepalese
manuscript; wood and multi-layered
paper; c. 1879 (S1991.160).

A. Petcz Burleigh. Nepalese
manuscript; Nilapatra with gold let-
tering; 1678 (S1991.161).

Robert Hale Clague. China cloisonne
bowl; 1985 (S1992.3).

Marie N. And Walter L. Deemer.
Japanese lacquer brazier; 18th - 19th
c. (S1992.42).

Leo S. Figiel, M.D. Indian bronze sculp-
ture; uth - 12th c. (S1992.2).

Dr. Kurt Gitter and Alice Yelen.
Japanese painting; Hanging scroll;
ink on paper; 17th c. ($1992.43).

Dr. Kurt Gitter and Alice Yelen.
Japanese painting; Hanging scroll;
ink on paper; 17th c. (S1992.44).

Dr. Kurt Gitter and Alice Yelen.
Japanese painting; ink on paper; 18th
- 19th c. (S1992.45).

Karl Mann. Indian painting; opaque
watercolor on cotton; 19th - 20th c.
(S1992.12-34).

Karl Mann. Indian painted textile;
black cotton stamped and painted
with gold and touches of color; 19th
c. ($1992.35).

Karl Mann. Indian painting; opaque
watercolor on cotton; 19th - 20th c.
(S1992.36-37).

Karl Mann. Indian painting; gold, silver
and touches of color on black cotton;
18th c. (S1992.38).

Karl Mann. Indian painting; opaque
watercolor on cotton; 20th c. ($1992.39).

Karl Mann. Indian painting; Devotees
Pay Homage to Image of Krishna as Sri
Nath-ji Installed in Forest; opaque
watercolor on cotton; 20th c.
($1992.40).

Karl Mann. Indian painting; opaque
watercolor on cotton; 20th c.
($1992.41).

David R. Nalin, M.D. Bangladesh;
brass sculpture; 12th c. ($1992.46).
David R. Nalin, M.D. Bangladesh; cop-
per alloy sculpture; uth - 12th c.

(S1992.47-48).

David R. Nalin, M.D. Bangladesh;
brass sculpture; 12th c. (S1992.49).
David R. Nalin, M.D. Bangladesh; cop-

per alloy sculpture; 12th c. (S1992.50).

David R. Nalin, M.D. Bangladesh;
brass sculpture; uth - 12th c.
(S1992.51).

David R. Nalin, M.D. Bangladesh;
leaded bronze sculpture; uth c.
(81992.52abc).

David R. Nalin, M.D. Bangladesh;
bronze sculpture; uth c. (S1992.53).

David R. Nalin, M.D. Bangladesh; black
schist sculpture; roth c. ($1992.54).

David R. Nalin, M.D. Bangladesh; cop-
per alloy sculpture; roth c. (S1992. 55).

David R. Nalin, M.D. Bangladesh;
bronze sculpture; 8th c. ($1992.56).

David R. Nalin, M.D. Bangladesh; leaded
bronze sculpture; 8th c. (S1992.57).

David R. Nalin, M.D. Bangladesh; cop-
per alloy sculpture; 8th c. ($1992.58).

David R. Nalin, M.D. Bangladesh;
stone sculpture; uth c. ($1992.59).

David R. Nalin, M.D. and Richard J.
Nalin, M.D. Bangladesh; bronze
(S1992.60-62ab).

David R. Nalin, M.D. and Richard J.
Nalin, M.D. Bangladesh; bronze and
gold (S1992.63).

David R. Nalin, M.D. and Richard J.
Nalin, M.D. Bangladesh; bronze
(S1992.64).

Mr. and Mrs. Charles Page. Japanese
print; “Raimon;” woodblock print on
mulberry paper with hand coloring;
1945 (S1991.163).

163
Mr. and Mrs. Charles Page. Japanese
print; “Kaizoku;” woodblock print
on mulberry paper with hand color-
ing; 1945 (S1991.164).

Mr. and Mrs. Charles Page. Japanese
print; “Anise;” mezzotint engraving;
1958 (S1991.165).

Mr. and Mrs. Charles Page. Japanese
print; “Lemon;” mezzotint engrav-
ing; 1959 (S1991.166).

Marietta Lutze Sackler. Chinese sculp-
ture; sandstone with traces of
polychrome; 386-535 (S1991.157).

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Hilton Simmons.
Japanese ceramic stoneware; 20th c.
(S1991.162).

Mr. and Mrs. H. Robert Slusser.
Nepalese manuscript; wood and
handmade paper; 1647 AD
(S1991.158.1-.83).

Donors of In-Kind Support

All Nippon Airways Co., Ltd. Airline
tickets for travel associated with the
Ancient Japan exhibition ($53,055).

Japan Airlines, Co., Ltd. Discount on
cargo shipment and airline tickets for
couriers for Ancient Japan exhibition.

Mazda (North America), Inc. 150 copies
of books on Japanese culture.

NHK Japan Broadcasting Corporation.
Assistance with production of video
for Ancient Japan exhibition.

The Willard Inter-Continental Hotel.
Complimentary hotel accommoda-
tions for representative of the Louvre
in connection with the exhibition
When Kingship Descended from Heaven:
Masterpieces of Mesopotamian Art from
the Louvre. Discounted rate for
visitors from Japan in connection
with Ancient Japan exhibition.

164

Freer Gallery of
Art/Arthur M. Sackler
Gallery

Donors of Financial Support

$ 50,000 or more

William Douglas McAdams, Inc.
Andrew W. Mellon Foundation

$5, 000 or more

Mrs. Jackson Burke

Mr. and Mrs. Roger E. Covey
Mr. and Mrs. James J. Lally
Mrs. John A. Pope

Mt. T. T. Tsui

$1, 000 or more

Mrs. James W. Alsdorf

Mr. and Mrs. John T. Bennett

Mr. and Mrs. John B. Bunker

Mr. Kenneth Chu and Ms. Betty Lo
Mr. and Mrs. Willard A. Clark

Mr. and Mrs. John R. Curtis, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Richard M. Danziger
Mr. and Mrs. Giuseppe Eskenazi
Mr. and Mrs. George Fan

Mr. and Mrs. Hart Fessenden

Dr. and Mrs. Robert S. Feinberg
Mr. and Mrs. Irwin C. Gerwin

Dr. Curt A. Gitter and Ms. Alice Yelen
Frederica H. Gries

Mr. Joseph E. Horung

Mrs. Rolf Jacoby

Mr. Subash Kapoor

Mr. and Mrs. Gilbert H. Kinney
Ambassador and Mrs. William Leonhart
Mr. and Mrs. Robert Linowes

Ms. Johanne Master

Honorable and Mrs. George McGhee
Mr. and Mrs. Hassanali Mehran
Mr. and Mrs. David Osnos

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Pritzker

Dr. and Mrs. David L. Raphling
Dr. and Mrs. Kenneth X. Robbins
Mr. and Mrs. Douglas F. Reeves
Mrs. Else Sackler

Ms. Marietta Lutze Sackler

Ms. Laura Smith

Mr. and Mrs. Benjamin Sokol

Mr. Saburo Takahashi
Mr. Robert Ching Tang
Mr. and Mrs. John C. Walton

Cooper-Hewitt Museum

Donors of Financial Support
$50,000 or more

American Express Company

$10, 000 or more

Cahners Publishing Company

Christie's

The Colbert Foundation, Inc.

Graham Foundation for Advanced
Studies

The Hayden Family Foundation

Henry J. & Drue Heinz Foundation

Frank and Lisina Hoch

Samuel H. Kress Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Harvey M. Krueger

Mr. and Mrs. Richard Morrill

New York State Council on the Arts

Port Royal Foundation

Helena Rubinstein Foundation

Daniel Swarovski Corporation

Wertheim Schroder & Company

$5,000 or more

Mr. David Baird, Jr.

Mrs. Karen Johnson Boyd

Bristol-Myers Squibb Co.

Liz Claiborne Foundation

Consolidated Edison Company of NY

Ms. Beatrice W. Feder

The Estate of Dona I. Guimaraes

I.D. Magazine

Iris Foundation

McGraw-Hill, Inc.

Frederick W. Richmond Foundation,
Inc.

Mr. Arthur B. Rosenburg and Ms.
Cheryl A. Wexler

The Arthur Ross Foundation

The Charles E. Sampson Memorial
Foundation
$1,000 or more

Penny and Moreton Binn

Mr. and Mrs. Donald J. Bruckmann

Mrs. Mary Griggs Burke

Cenro Corporation

Chambord Inc.

Mrs. John Chancellor

Conde Nast Publications

Mr. John A. Corroon and Mrs.
Rosemary B. Corroon

Mrs. Joanne duPont Foster

Fund for New York City Public Education

The Lawrence Gelb Foundation

Ms. Susan Gilman

Mr. E.A. Greenlee

Ms. Carol Griffis

The Hearst Corporation

Mr. and Mrs. Bernard Heineman, Jr.

Mr. Gerald Hines

Mr. and Mrs. Raymond J. Horowitz

Mr. Fred Imberman and Mrs. Marcie
Imberman

Mr. Robert Israel and Mrs. Ellen Israel

Mr. Lincoln Kirstein

Joe & Emily Lowe Foundation

Mr. Douglas Mellinger

Miss Elinor Merrell

Mr. Kenneth B. Miller

Enid & Lester S. Morse Foundation

National Associates of Dealers in Antiques

National Geographic Society

New York Design Center, Inc.

Samuel I. Newhouse Foundation

NYNEX Foundation

Mrs. Sarah C. Papandrea

Parish-Hadley Associates, Inc.

PRT Corporation of America

Mr. and Mrs. Theodore C. Rogers

Mr. and Mrs. Daniel Rose

Joseph E. Seagrams & Sons

Mr. and Mrs. Stanley Silberstein

Professor Sue Jane Smock

Ms. Frances Smyth

Ms. Wendy Snyder

Mr. and Mrs. Frank Stanton

Mr. and Mrs. Gerald Stiebel

Mr. and Mrs. Massimo Vignelli

John Wiley & Sons Inc.

$500 or more

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph C. Abeles
Mrs. Marella Agnelli
Mr. and Mrs. Charles R. Allen, IV

Mrs. C. Robert Allen

Mr. and Mrs. Ted Ashley

Mrs. Page Ashley

Mr. John P. Axelrod

Mr. Howard Bloch

Ms. Cora S. Brossard

Mr. and Mrs. Samuel Buchsbaum

Robert and Judith Burger Philantropic
Fund

Mr. Edward Lee Cave

Mrs. Julie Hewitt Colt

Ms. Ursula Corning

Mr. and Mrs. Daniel Cowin

Ms. Kathleen C. Delfino

Mr. Niels Diffrient

Mr. Eldon Elder

Mr. and Mrs. Richard M. Estes

Ms. Selma Faecher

Ms. Florence J. Fox

Ms. Karen Free

Ms. Virginia Gilder

Mr. and Mrs. Ira Glick

Good Neighbor Foundation, Inc.

Ms. Alice Gottesman

Grey Advertising

Mrs. Henry L. Hillman

Mrs. Barbara F. Hines

Mrs. Deane Johnson

Mr. Alexander Julian

The J.M. Kaplan Fund

Ms. Barbara D. Knox

Mr. and Mrs. Leonard Lauder

Lebenthal & Co. Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Marshall Levinson

Mr. and Mrs. Richard A. Lukins

The Russel Maguire Foundation, Inc.

Mr. Peter Marino

Mr. Michael T. Martin

Ms. Starr Moore

Mr. and Mrs. Arnold H. Neis

Mr. and Mrs. Bruce M. Newman

North American Watch Corporation

Ms. Fifi Pate

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas P. Peardon, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Mark Perlbinder

Mrs. Barbara G. Pine

Dr. and Mrs. Jeffery D. Postman

Dr. and Mrs. Simon B. Poyta

Genie and Donald Rice Charitable Trust

Mr. and Mrs. Rodman Rockefeller

Mr. Gilbert L. Rogin

Mr. and Mrs. Jonathan P. Rosen

Dr. C.E. Rubinstein and Mr. Phillip
Winegar

Ms. Sheri Sandler

Mr. Harrie George Schloss

Mr. Jay M. Schwamm

Mrs. Maida J. Sperling

Ms. Patricia Sullivan

Tishman Construction Corp. of NY
Ms. Sue E. Van De Bovenkemp
Mr. John C. Waddell

Mr. and Mrs. Michael Weiser
Ms. Gretchen Wessels

Ms. May Wohlman

Mr. and Mrs. David Zalaznick
Zimmer + Rohde, Ltd.

$250 or more

Ms. Elsie L. Adler

A La Vieille Russie, Inc.

Mr. Bert Amador

Mr. Josef Bartner

Mr. and Mrs. Jay I. Bennett

Mr. Peter M. Benton

Ms. Rose Levy Beranbaum

Mss. F. H. Berlin

Mrs. Brook Berlind

Mr. and Mrs. Richard A. Bernstein

Mr. George Beylerian and Mrs. Louise
Beylerian

Mrs. Ruth Blumka

Mr. William T. Boland, Jr. and Ms.
Patricia K. Boland

Mr. and Mrs. Peter Borie

Mrs. M.E. Borish

Mr. and Mrs. David Botwinik

Ms. Ruth Bowman

Ms. Rosemarie Burkhardt

Mr. David Richmond Byers, III

Charrette Corporation

Mrs. Fredinand Cinelli

Mr. Andrew Clunn

Cordon Rose, Inc.

Ms. Priscilla Cunningham

Mr. and Mrs. Allerton Cushman, Jr.

Ms. Elizabeth De Rosa

Mr. Daniel De Siena

Ms. Hester Diamond

Mr. David Dietz

Mr. and Mrs. Robert E. Dill

Honorable and Mrs. Douglas Dillon

Helen Drutt Gallery

Ms. Deanne Torbett Dunning

Mrs. Thomas Estes

Mr. Norbert Fitz

Mr. Peter Flaherty

Ms. Jane A. Freeman
Mr. Michael K. Frith and Ms. Kathryn
Mullen

Mrs. Meriwether Garn and Mr. Andrew
Garn

Mr. and Mrs. Patrick Gerschel

Ms. Abby Gilmore

Mr. and Mrs. Benjamin Ginsburg

Mr. Oscar Glasberg

Mr. Dudley J. Godfrey, Jr.

Ms. Joan Goldsmith

Mr. Harmon Goldstone

Bruce Gregga Interiors Inc.

Mr. Erik K. Grimmelmann and Ms.
Louise A. Gikow

Mr. Richard Harriton

Mr. and Mrs. H. Havemeyer III

Ms. Grace M. Healy

Ms. Vivian G. Heffran

Mrs. J.B. Hodgman

Mrs. Sidney Hughes

Mr. and Mrs. Gordon Hyatt

International Linen Promotion Comm.

Mr. John J. Iselin

Mr. and Mrs. Melvin Jacobs

Mr. Donald L. James

Ms. Stephanie Janis

Ms. Muriel Karasik

Mr. and Mrs. William W. Karatz

Mr. and Mrs. Ronald Kaufman

Mr. and Mrs. Peter Kaufmann

Ms. Marilyn Kern

Mr. Mitchell Kline

Ms. Marilyn Kern

Mr. Robert Kraft and Mrs. June Kraft

Mr. and Mrs. John Kunstadter

Lebowitz/Gould Design

Lee Jofa, Inc.

Judith Leiber, Inc.

Lillian Vernon

Mr. Carl D. Lobell

Mr. Miles J. Lourie

Mr. Tonin MacCallum

James A. Macdonald Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Stanley Marcus

Mr. and Mrs. Edgar M. Masinter

Mr. and Mrs. William Mathers

Ms. Pauline C. Metcalf

Mitchell Energy and Development

Mr. and Mrs. William Monoghan

Mr. and Mrs. Winthrop R. Munyan

Mr. and Mrs. Kal Naselson

Ms. Patricia Ohnell

Dr. Stuart Orsher

Mr. Jeffrey J. Osborne

P.T.M. Interior Designs, Ltd.

166

Pantone, Inc.

Ms. Elizabeth Pedersen

Mr. and Mrs. Gerard Piel

Ms. Beverly Lang Pierce

Mr. and Mrs. Richard G. Powell

Ms. Claudia V. Quinby

Ms. Catherine Rein

Ms. Verna Retzlaff

Mr. Edwin G. Roos

Mrs. Shirley A. Samis and J. Woller

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Sarnoff

Ms. Coke A. Saunders

Ms. Elizabeth Scheuer

Mr. and Mrs. Herbert D. Schimmel

Mr. Bernard Seiz

Mr. Roger So

Sotheby's Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Jerry Spiegel

Mr. E.D. Sternat

Strong Foundation

Ms. Anne G. Symchych

Mr. and Mrs. Julian Taub

Mr. and Mrs. William S. Taubman

Mr. William Theoharides

Ms. Joy W. Ubina

Mrs. Alexander Vietor

Ms. Susan R. Wacker

Mr. Paul F. Walter

Mrs. Lynne Waxman and Mr. Avrom S.
Waxman

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Wilder

Ms. Enid Winslow

Mr. Robert C. Woolley

Donors to the Collection

Anonymous Donor. Teapot: “Tea
for One”, Denmark; Teapot
(with hole in middle), Japan.
(199I-I12-1,2).

Anonymous Donor. Handkerchief
printed with map of Tokyo subway
system, Japan. (1991-135-1).

Anonymous Donor. Samples of
printed fabric produced by
Ernest Schurpf & Co., c. 1930,
Switzerland. (1991-162-1,2).

Anonymous Donor. Hand mirror,
gutta percha, glass; necklace, by
Kerstin Nichols, 1982-86, U.S.A.
(1992-60-1,2).

Anonymous Donor. Silver bowl by Josef
Turnbach, Austria. (1992-97-1).

Anonymous Donor. Length of woven
fabric, 1960's. (1992-135-1).

Anonymous Donor. Drawing, Design
with Sun and Four Figures, by
Winold Reiss, U.S.A. (1992-128-1)

Anonymous Donor. Drawing, City
Abstract, by Winold Reiss, U.S.A.
(1992-127-1)

Mr. William Aberbach. “SYP” Teapot,
porcelian, made by Wedgwood, c.
1900, England. (1991-107-1a,b).

Amboss KG. Flatware set: “2060”,
designed by Carl Aubock, Germany.
(1992-37-1/9).

Mr. Per Arnoldi. Poster: “Save the
Alps”, designed by Per Arnoldi,
1992, Denmark. (1992-87-1).

Mrs. Elsa Marie Bates-Freund. Design
drawings for jewelry by Elsa Bates-
Freund, U.S.A. (1992-107-1/5).

Dr. David Becker. Side chair designed
by Hans Wegner, 1950's, Denmark.
(1992-104-1).

Ms. Michaela Bendu. Plastic shopping
bag, 1992. (1992-114-1).

Mr. Jason and Mrs. Suzanne Berger.
Wallpaper borders: Peter Rabbit and
His Friends, c. 1930-40, England.
(1991-124-1).

Mr. George and Mrs. Louise Beylerian.
Outdoor furnishing fabric: “Loco
Sole”, c. 1968. (1991-168-1).

Mr. George and Mrs. Louise Beylerian.
Group of house and table wares.
(1991-168-2/7).

Ms. Diana D. Blake. Selection of draw-
ings by William Hunt Diederich,
U.S.A. (1992-92-1/235).

Mr. Constantin Boym. Prototype
(clock), “Mona Lisa”; Series of produc-
tion drawings, all by Constantin
Boym. (1992-131-1/13)

Ms. Irena Brynner. Group of jewelry by
Irena Brynner, 1950's-1960's, U.S.A.
(1991-165-1/13).

Mrs. Mary Ricketson Bullard. Two
woven, embroidered panels by Ruth
Reeves, 1930's. (1991-15 5-1,2).

Ms. Elizabeth L. Burnham. Group of jewel-
ry made of anodized aluminum, made
by Patricia Smith, 1950's. (1991-164-1/6).

Mrs. Barbara E. Busch. Cream pitcher,
ceramic, designed by Jessie M. King,
England. (1992-117-1).

Mr. Mel Byars. Typewriter: “Lettera 32”,
designed by Marcello Nizzoli, Italy.
(1992-115-1).
Mr. Donald Cameron. Drawings, photo-
stats of textile designs, by Tammi
(Anton) Parzinger, c. 1930. (1992-5I-
1/90).

Mrs. Rosemary H. Campbell. Sidewall
paper, “The Roosevelt”, c. 1910. Gift
from the estate of Robert H. Meyer-
jack. (1992-72-1)

Sir Hugh Casson. Furniture drawings,
by Sir Hugh Casson, 1985, England.
(1992-83-1,2).

Ms. Dinah Casson. Photostat of a chair
design, by Dinah Casson. (1992-94-1).

Mr. Garth Clark and Mr. Mark Del Vec-
chio. Vase and lid, by Rudy Autio,
1985. (1991-170-1a,b).

Mr. Harmon Cohen. Embroidered curtain,
Egyptian style, Switzerland. (1991-114-1).

Coogi Australia. Fabric panels by Coogi
Australia, 1991. (1992-54-1/7).

CHM Library: Transfer. Portfolio of
plates, designed and engraved by
Fritz Endell. (1992-113-1-1/13).

Coverage, Inc. Roll of textured
wallpaper,1990, Germany. (1992-65-1).

Creation Baumann. Printed fabrics
produced by Creation Baumann:
“Mercato”, “Bola”, “Lava”, “Lipari”
(1992-126-1/4).

Mr. William Cressy. Five rolls of
machine-printed wallpaper, c. 1920-
33, U-S.A. (1991-126-1/5).

Ms. Joan Cunningham. Shopping bags.
(1992-105-1/25).

Cyrus Clark, Inc. Fabric lengths,
samples, produced by Cyrus Clark
Co., Inc., U.S.A. (1992-50-1/4).

Danese Milano. Group of Italian house
and table wares. (1991-108-1/11).

Daum Cristal. Four beakers, glass,
designed by Roger Tallon, France;
Goblet, glass, designed by Roger Tal-
lon, France. (1992-13-15).

Mr. Charles De Marco, Jr. Drawings,
studies, posters, by Michael Ver-
naglia, US.A. (1992-108-1/27).

Ms. Sylvia Dion. “Cloud” pendant
made by Olaf Skoogfors, 1973, U.S.A.
(1991-161-1).

Mrs. Theodore Dreier. Length of
brocaded silk, c. 1740, Spitalfields,
England. (1992-79-1).

Ms. Yoshiko Ebihara. Group of table
and housewares, made in Japan and
U.S.A. (1991-159-1/14).

Ms. Yoshiko Ebihara. Two posters:
“From Pushpin to Architecture”,
designed by Shin Matsunaga, 1984.
(1991-166-1,2).

Ms. Yoshiko Ebihara. Two posters, by
Shin Matsunaga, and by Takaaki Mat-
sumoto/M Plus M Inc. NY. (1991-167-
1,2).

Mr. Abraham Edelman. Wallpaper
sample book, 1985, U.S.A.; Sample
book, Originals of Ilonka Karasz;
Hand painted scroll by Ilonka
Karasz, c. 1955. (1992-28-1/3).

Mr. Abraham Edelman Luxograph
print: Nozh’s Ark, by Ilonka Karasz,
1950's. (1992-29-1).

Elika. “Laborious” clock; “Mona Lisa”
clock, both designed by Constantin
Boym, U.S.A. (1992-46-1).

Ms. Helen Williams Drutt English.
Brooch, ivory and ebony, by Pavel
Opocensky; Brooch: “Venus”, by
Judy Onofrio, 1990. (1991-129-1,2).

Ms. Helen Williams Drutt English.
Necklace by Breon O’Casey, 1989,
England. (1992-85-1). Gift in honor of
Eileen O’Casey.

Ms. Helen Williams Drutt English.
Colorcore brooch by Thomas Gen-
tille, 1991. (1992-98-1). Gift of Helen
Williams Drutt English in honor of
the artist, Thomas Gentille.

Ms. Mae Lamar Festa. Eight pattern
samples of printed fabric, produced
by Knoll. (1991-157-1/8).

Ms. Mae Lamar Festa. Printed fabric,
“Apples”, designed by Stig Lindberg,
C. 1950. (1992-125-1a,b).

Found in the Museum. Tableware:
“Primeur” pattern, porcelain,
designed by Signe Persson-Melin,
Sweden. (1992-22-1/5).

Gift of Rorstrand Factory, Sweden.

Found in the Museum. Bowl, glazed
stoneware, made by Edwin and Mary
Scheier, 1950's, U.S.A. (1992-23-1).

Found in the Museum. Four prototype
glasses, designed by Tapio Wirkkala,
c. 1975. (1992-24-1/4). Gift of the Ren-
wick Gallery

Found in the Museum. Tableware, Scan-
dinavian. (1992-25-1/10).

Gift of Mr. Peter Condu

Mr. Carlo Forcolini. Light, “Polifemo”;
Light, “Nestore”; Two chairs, “Miro”;

Table, “Onlyou”, all manufactured in
Italy. (1992-120-1/5).

Ms. Jackie Fowler. Wallpaper
samplebook: “bauhaus”, 1930-32,
Germany. (1992-2-1).

Mr. Dan Friedman. Posters: Citicorp
Center; Poster: Gallimaufry, design
by Dan Friedman. (1992-11-1/4).

Mr. David Gallager. Pitcher,
“Nineveh”, by Ridgway & Abington,
c. 1851, England. (1992-99-1).

Ms. Dorothy T. Globus. Postcards
advertising wallpaper, 1909-11. (1992-
68-1/5).

Ms. Dorothy T. Globus. Cup and
Saucer: “Zebra”, porcelain, c. 1950's,
Sweden. (1992-95-1a,b).

Ms. Deane Granoff. Group of costume
jewelry from c. 1936-1945, Necklace,
two brooches. (1992-130-1/3)

Mr. Alan Grinberg. Fabric: “#192”;
Fabric: “Diamond Springs on Mother
Lode”. Designed by Alan Grinberg,
U.S.A., 1977. (1991-136-1,2).

Mr. Gerald Gulotta. Photostat: Tien-
shan/Yixing Teapot #7, designed by
Gerald Gulotta, 1987. (1992-81-1).

Dr. Jack W.C. Hagstrom. Vase,
ceramic, made by Fulper Pottery Co.,
c. 1915, U.S.A.; Small bowl, ceramic,
Cc. 1900. (1992-63-1,2).

Bequest of Gary W. Hager

Ms. Julia Haiblen. Perfume bottle:
“Calandre”, designed by Pierre
Dinard, 1969, France. (1990-111-1a,b.).

Henry Dreyfuss Assoc. “Trimline”
telephone, designed by Henry
Dreyfuss Assoc., c. 1962, U.S.A. (1991-
115-1).

Henry Dreyfuss Assoc. Archive of
microfilm and moviefilm documenting
Henry Dreyfuss’ projects. (1992-55-1).
Gift of Henry Dreyfuss Associates,
Donald M. Genaro, Sr. Partner.

Ms. Dorothy Hoberman. Copper
bracelet by Frank Rebajas, c. 1940-
50. (1992-138-1)

Mr. Henry Horwitt. Archive of Nathan
G. Horwitt. (1991-127-1).

Mr. Henry Horwitt. Models and
prototypes designed by Nathan G.
Horwitt. (1991-140-1/27).

iittala Crystal, Inc. Glassware designed by
Markku Salo: “Marius”, “Paivikki”,
“Nautilus” patterns. (1992-4-1/19).

167
Issey Miyake USA Corp. Posters for
Issey Miyake, 1992. (1992-66-1,2).

Mr. Dakota Jackson. Models of the
“vik-ter” chair, designed by Dakota
Jackson, 1990 and 1991, U.S.A. (1992-
47-1,2).

Mr. Dakota Jackson. Drawings of the
“vik-ter” chair, designed by Dakota
Jackson, 1991, U.S.A. (1992-58-1/67).

Ms. Zoe Jackson and Mr. Pierce Jack-
son. Side chair: “’vik-ter”, designed
by Dakota Jackson, 1991, U.S.A.
(1991-I5I-1).

Mrs. Joy Newport Jepson. Cutlery set:
“Louis XVI", silver, c. 1909, U.S.A.
(1991-17-1/9)

Mr. Vladimir Kagan. “Unicorn” chair
designed by Vladimir Kagan, c.
1960. (1991-163-1).

Mr. Vladimir Kagan. Ink drawings, fur-
niture studies, by Vladimir Kagan,
1965, U.S.A. (1992-56-1/10).

Mr. Vladimir Kagan. Drawings: “Direc-
tional” chair, by Vladimir Kagan,
1992, U.S.A. (1992-74-1/3)

Kai International. “Hyvalysti” Garden
tool set designed by Igarashi Studio,
1988, Japan. (1991-128-1/8).

Mr. Martin Kamer. Fragment, block
printed fabric, cotton, France, 18th
century. (1992-78-1).

Mr. Kenneth Kneitel. Jacquard woven
calendar, produced by Alkahn Labels,
1987, U.S.A. (1992-61-1).

The Knoll Group. “Handkerchief” chair
and prototype, designed by Massimo
Vignelli, 1982-87, U.S.A. (1991-118-
1,2).

Mr. Giles Kotcher. Wallpaper sidewalls,
machine-printed. (1992-101-1,2).

Kustindustrimuseet I Oslo. Telephone,
bakelite, c. 1930, Norway; Plate, por-
celain, 1930's, Norway. (1992-118-1,2).

Kvadrat Boligtextiler As. Fabrics
produced by Kvadrat. (1992-20-1/8).

Mrs. Eric Larrabee. Child's chair by
Charles Eames, 20th century, U.S.A.
(1991-144-1)

Mrs. Wendy (Orin) Lehman. Collection
of ceramics. (1992-5-1/66).

Ms. Gail Levin and Mr. John Van
Sickle. Posters, Czechoslovakian.

(1991-137-1/6)

Mr. Ira Howard Levy. “Dieppe” mirror,
carved bone, wood, glass, 19th cen-

168

tury, France. (1991-154-1). Gift of Ira
Howard Levy and Stanley Gurell.

Ms. Edna Lindemann. Wallpaper
designed by Charles E. Burchfield, c.
1920, U.S.A. (1992-109-1/6).

Liquid Blue. T-Shirt: “Underwater”,
designed by John Connell, 1990,
U.S.A. (1991-03-1).

Lumiance bv. Lighting fixture: “Prioras-
tar”, designed by Chris Hiemstra, c.
1990, The Netherlands. (1992-62-1a/d).

Mr. Pascal Luthy. “Dinosaur” lamp, lac-
quereed wood, designed by Pascal
Luthy, Switzerland. (1992-16-1).

Mr. Joseph McCrindle. Drawings for
pendentives by Giuseppe Bernardino
Bison. (1991-139-1/5). Gift of Joseph F.
McCrindle in honor of Elaine Evans
Dee.

Mr. Daniel Mack. Pair of dining chairs
made by Daniel Mack, 1991, U.S.A.
(1991-158-1,2).

Mr. Richard A. Manetta. Paper shop-
ping bags. (1992-106-1/38).

Mr. Victor Margolin. Paper cut-outs,
Mexico and China. (1992-80-1/48).

Mr. Gene Maston. Shopping bags,
paper and plastic. (1992-121-1/36).

Mr. Richard Meier. Three silk screen
prints designed by Richard Meier,
1989. (1991-141-1/3). Gift in honor of
Lisa Taylor.

The estate of Robert H. Meyerjack.
Sidewall paper: “The Roosevelt”.
(1992-72-1).

Mr. Peter R. Miller. Four panels of ter-
racotta designed by Kristian
Schneider, late 19th century, U.S.A.
(1991-153-1/4).

Mr. Herbert Mitchell. Altar design, red,
black chalk, 18th century, French
School. (1991-134-1).

Mr. Carlo Moretti. Nine footed drink-
ing glasses designed by Carlo Moret-
ti, 1991. (1991-139-1/9).

Mr. and Mrs. Richard Morrill. Table
cutlery: “Francisca”, The Nether-
lands; Table cutlery, pistol handles,
England. (1992-41-1/4).

National Museum of American Art.
Transfer of poster for Apple Com-
puter Japan, Inc., designed by David
Smith. (1992-88-1).

Ms. Judith York Newman. Two
lithographs from Studies

and Executed Buildings by Frank Lloyd
Wright. (1991-156-1,2).

Ms. Martina R. Norelli. Plastic shop-
ping bags. (1992-82-1/11).

OXO International. Kitchen utensils:
“Good Grips”, manufactured by
OXO International, 1990, U.S.A.
(1992-52-1/29).

The Pasanella Company. Two “Eti-
quette” placemats, designed by
Marco Pasanella and Alexander Breb-
ner, 1992. (1992-134-1,2).

Ms. Kathleen Paton. Wallpaper
sidewall, produced by Nancy Warren
Wallpaper, c. 1955, U.S.A. (1992-129-1)

Dr. Georgiana Peacher. Two fabrics by
Eve Peri, 1950's, U.S.A. (1991-132-1,2).

Mr. Donald Charles Pearson.
Punchbowl and stand: “Life in a
Punchbowl”, earthenware, 1987,
U.S.A. (1991-109-1a,b).

Ms. Barbara G. Pine. Drawings: Pier
Project, by Mary Ann Crawford,
U.S.A. (1992-84-1,2)

Ploegstoffen. Lengths of printed fabric
produced by Ploegstoffen, The
Netherlands. (1992-49-1/8).

Ms. Addie Powell. Tableware: “Tuxedo”,
porcelain, produced by Swid Powell,
1986, U.S.A. (1992-119-1/4).

Mr. William Prindle. Set of cutlery:
“WO-04”, stainless steel, plastic,
designed by William Prindle, c.
1990, Japan. (1992-14-13).

Mr. Roger Questel. “Country Field
Tiles”, manufactured by Intaglio,
Ltd., 1991, U.S.A. (1992-7-1/6).

Mrs. Belle Quitman. Brooch: “Pin #22
C”; Earrings: “#46 A-4”, by Stanley
Lechtzin, U.S.A. (1992-86-1,2). Gift
of Belle and Sidney Quitman.

Ms. Rosanne Raab. Serving Utensils:
“Nasturtium Leaves”, designed by
Robyn Nichols, 1991, U.S.A. (1992-
44-1,2).

Mr. Elliot Rabner. Silver belt with niel-
lo work, late 19th-early 20th century,
Russia. (1991-145-1).

Ms. Dana Robinson. Annual reports,
designed by Robinson Graphic
Design, 1990. (1992-64-1).

Ms. Arlene Rogers. Two rolls of wallpaper,
c. 1980-84, U.S.A. (1991-125-1,2).

Mr. and Mrs. Kelley Rollings. Ring,
gold, made by Ed Weiner, U.S.A.;
Ashanti gold weight, Ghana, Africa.
(1992-15-1,2).

Mr. Maya Romanoff. Wallpaper panels,
designed by Maya Romanoff. (1992-
18-1/3).

Mr. and Mrs. Milton Rose. Group of
ceramics, stoneware and earthenware:
vase, bowls, bottles, cylinder, plate.
(1991-142-1/8).

Mr. Frederick Saal. Parure of
micromosaics and gold; Small mesh
purse made of gold, turquoise. (1991-
160-1/9). Gift in honor of Dr. and
Mrs. Joseph Saal.

Mrs. Sanae Asayama Sabattini. Ket-
tle/Samovar: “Vesevo”, designed by
Filippo Alison, Italy. (1992-116-1a/d).

Mr. and Mrs. Edward J. Sack.
Tableware: “Hallcraft by Eva Zeisel”,
porcelain, 1950's, U.S.A. (1992-96-
V/8).

Mr. Frederick G. Schab. 16th century
engravings, Dutch. (1992-59-1/35).
Mr. Justin G. Schiller. Group of Dutch
Art Nouveau ceramics, glassware.

(1992-100-1/16).

Mr. Justin G. Schiller. Poster, “Le
Locataire”, by Theophile A. Steinlen;
Etching by C.A. Lion Cachet. (1992-
100-17,18).

Ms. Suzanne Sekey. Collection of shop-
ping bags and one poster. (1992-77-
V/60).

Mr. William Shopsin. Westclox table
alarm clock; Two opalescent drinking
glasses. (1991-143-1/3).

Scot Simon. Various rolls of printed,
pleated, embossed or laminated
vinyl, designed by Scot Simon. (1992-
27-13).

Dr. and Mrs. Norton Spritz. Group of
English pottery, late 19th century.
(1991-152-1/4).

Mr. Eddie Squires. Fabric lengths and
samples. (1992-3-1/27).

Mr. Eddie Squires. Fabric length
printed by Bert Kitchen, c. 1960;
Two square picnic cloths, 1950's,
England. (1991-6-1,2).

Mrs. Alice Stern. Earthenware plate,
possibly 19th century, France. (1991-
19-1).

Mrs. Alice Stern. Vase; Tumbler; Medal;
Dish, late 19th-early 20th centuries,
France. (1991-150-1/4).

Stelton USA. Cutlery set: “Filio” or
“Wave”, designed by Ralph Kramer,
1991, Germany. (1992-43-15).

Stiletto Studios. Goblets: “Champ”,
glass, metal, by Stiletto Studios, c.
1991, Germany. (1992-89-1,2).

Ms. Florence Nach Taylor. Necklace;
Brooch, made by Florence Nach
Taylor, c. 1961, U.S.A. (1991-147-1,2).

Ms. Florence Nach Taylor. Printed
fabric panel produced by Folly Cove,
1950's, U.S.A. (1991-148-1).

Unknown Donor. Greeting cards;
Posters. (1992-67-1/14).

Mr. Jan A.L. van der Lande. “Museum
Wander Stool TC”, designed by
Rund Jan Kokke, 1990, The Nether-
lands. (1992-136-1).

S.F. Barones van Hoevell-Teding van
Berkhout and Jonkvr. A.C. Teding
van Berkhout. Velvet livery band,
late 18th century, The Netherlands.
(1991-130-1).

Mr. Andy Van Meter. “Cat's Eye
candleholders, glass, designed by Laura
Handler, 1991, U.S.A. (1991-149-1/30).

Various Donors. Shopping bags. (1992-
122-1/6).

Mr. Kenneth Walker. Group of architec-
tural drawings, late 1980's. (1991-146-
1/30).

Mr. Paul F. Walter. Ceramics by Eric
Ravilious, made by Wedgwood,
1930's, England. (1992-42-1/3).

Mr. Paul F. Walter. Dinnerware: “Per-
sephone”, porcelain, designed by Eris
Ravillious, c. 1930-40, England.
(1991-110-1V/8).

Mr. Guy and Mrs. Carola Walton. Carpet
section samples, designed by Scott &
Teegen, c. 1935, U.S.A. (1992-48-1,2).

Mr. Guy and Mrs. Carola Walton.
Drawing by Otto John Teegen; B/W
photographs of interiors by Scott and
Teegen, Architects. (1992-73-1/5).

Ms. Dorothy Warren. Cup and Saucer,
“Bermuda Visit, November 1953”,
porcelain, Staffordshire, England.
(1992-137-1a,b).

Ms. Michele Wiener. Group of jewel-
ry designed by Ed Wiener.(1991-
169-1/5).

Mr. Robert Wilhite. Silver cutlery set,
designed by Robert Wilhite, 1982,
U.S.A. (1992-45-15).

Yves Gonnet. Fabric: “Tortue”; Fabric:
“Savanne”, both produced by Yves
Gonnet. (1992-12-1,2).

Zimmer + Rohde GmbH. Three fabrics
produced by Zimmer + Rohde
GmbH: “Rosetta”, “Alea”, “Celia”.
(1992-133-1/3).

Zona Alta Projects. “Snac Pac” cutlery
set, plastic, stainless steel, 1991.
(1992-40-1a/d).

Donors of In-Kind Support

Geographic Data Technology. Provided
services and computer data valued at
$20,000 for the high tech resource
room in The Power of Maps exhibition.

Sotheby's. Provided free subscriptions
valued at $1615 to various Sotheby's
auction catalogues for the Cooper-
Hewitt Library.

Sun Microsystems, Inc. Provided ser-
vices, Computer equipment and com-
puter data valued at $70,000 for the
high-tech resource room in The Power
of Maps exhibition.

Hirshhorn Museum and
Sculpture Garden

Donors of Financial Support

$500, 000 or more

Holenia Trust

$10, 000 or more

Jerome L. Greene
Truland Foundation
Truland Systems Corporation

$1000 or more

Reclass Revenues
Robert Truland Trustee
Washington Post Company

$500 or more

Loretta Rosenthal
Silver Spring Chapter of Links
Donors to the Collection

Robert Arneson. Final Study for “Diana
IV,” 1980, charcoal, pastel, and pencil
on paper, by William Beckman (92.4)

Sally Avery. #52-r0A, 1952, oil on can-
vas, by Stephen Pace (91.53)

Larry Bell. SMS #276 1991, mylar,
paper, laminant film, aluminum and
silicon monoxide on canvas, by Larry
Bell (92.5)

Mrs. Patti Cadby Birch. We Are Not the
Last (Non Siamo Gli Ultimi), 1974,
acrylic on linen, by Zoran Music (92.6)

Mrs. Minna Lederman Daniel. House
Tops, 1920, oil and water-soluble
paint on canvas, by Mell Daniel
(91.35)

Mrs. Minna Lederman Daniel. Early
Tree, ca. 1920-1925, ink on paper, by
Mell Daniel (91.36)

Mrs. Minna Lederman Daniel. Cor-
nucopia, 1972, watercolor and ink on
paper, (91.37)

Mrs. Gertrude M. K. Edwards. Untitled
(Young Woman Holding a Letter), 1905,
oil on canvas, by Lovis Corinth (91.65)

Dr. and Mrs. Merle S. Glick. Untitled
(4.10.9.8), ca. 1965, painted stone and
painted metal chain on wood with
brass plate, by Wallace Berman
(91.45)

Samuel M. Greenbaum. Neck-Tied En-
tanglement, ca. 1974, oil, beeswax, and
perlite on canvas, by Nicholas
Sperakis (91.38)

Olga Hirshhorn. Various books to the
museum's library.

Nancy Holt. Drawing for “Gyrostasis,”
1968, pencil on paper, by Robert
Smithson (91.54)

Nancy Holt. Untitled (Drawing for
“Gyrostasis”), 1968, pencil on paper,
by Robert Smithson (91.55)

David Ireland. Study for Hirshhorn
“Works” (Washington at Night), 1989,
pencil, crayon, and colored pencil on
paper, by David Ireland (91.39)

David Ireland. Study for Hirshhorn
“Works” (Nighttime, Washington,
D.C.), 1989, pencil, crayon, and
colored pencil on paper, by David
Ireland (91.40)

David Ireland. Study for Hirshhorn
“Works” (Coronet), 1989, pen and ink

170

and crayon on paper, by David
Ireland (91.41)

David Ireland. Study for Hirshhorn
“Works” (Trough on Roof), 1989, pen
and ink, crayon, and colored pencil
on paper, by David Ireland (91.42)

David Ireland. Study for Hirshhorn
“Works” (Hirshhorn Museam with Fired
Balcony), 1989, pen and ink and
colored pencil on paper, by David
Ireland (91.43)

David Ireland. Study for Hirshhorn
“Works” (Elevation), 1990, ink, felt-
tipped pen and ink, and pencil on
paper, by David Ireland (91.44)

Joseph Kosuth. Ex-Libris (Wittgenstein’s
Gift), 1990, lithograph on vellum
paper, by Joseph Kosuth (91.30)

Mr. and Mrs. Mortimer C. Lebowitz. E/
Solitario, 1970, oil on canvas, by
Rufino Tamayo (91.64)

Robert Lehrman. Do Not Go Gently,
1987, bronze and steel, by Chris-
topher Wilmarth (91.26)

Irwin and Suzanne Leibowitz. Peanuts,
1991, latex on wood, by Cary S.
Leibowitz (91.56)

Irwin and Suzanne Leibowitz. Weenies,
1991, latex on wood, by Cary S.
Leibowitz (91.57)

Sydney and Frances Lewis. Proposal for a
Colossal Monument in the Form of a
Typewriter Eraser for Alcatraz
(“Typewriter Eraser on Alcatraz”), 1972,
watercolor, crayon and graphite on
paper, by Claes Thure Oldenburg (91.31)

Gordon Locksley and George T. Shea.
Untitled, 1981, brush and ink on
paper, mounted on linen, by David
Deutsch (91.46)

Bert N. Mitchell. The Flag, 1990-1991,
acrylic on canvas, by Herbert Gentry
(92.16)

Benjamin Nicolette. I’ve Been Living in a
Hydrogen Bomb, 1980, pen, brush and
ink, and watercolor on paper, by
John Alexander (91.66)

Mrs. Mary Nikoloric. Untitled, 1925,
wax crayon on paper, by Ivan
Mestrovic (91.32)

Mrs. Mary Nikolorcic. Lamentation, 1917,
shellacked plaster, by Ivan Mestrovic
(91.33)

Mr.and Mrs. Stephen Pace. Untitled, 1960,
oil on canvas, by Ernest Briggs (92.1)

Matt Phillips. Garden for Three, 1988,
paper collage, monotype, and pastel
on paper, by Matt Phillips (91.60)

Matt Phillips. The Forest, 1988-1989,
paper collage, monotype and pastel
on paper, by Matt Phillips (91.61)

Matt Phillips. Berkeley Hills, 1989, paper
collage, monotype and charcoal on
paper, by Matt Phillips (91.62)

Matt Phillips. My Fair Garden, 1991,
paper collage and monotype on
paper, by Matt Phillips (91.63)

Vivian and Elliott Pollock. Snake Eyes,
1975, handmade paper, fabric, and
bamboo, by Robert Rauschenberg
(92.14)

Paul Reed. Gilport FIII, 1971, acrylic on
canvas, by Paul Reed (91.50)

Robert Reed. #4A 1965, 1965, acrylic on
canvas, by Paul Reed (91.51)

Robert Reed. 5-17-90 #1, 1990, opaque
watercolor on paper, by Paul Reed (91. 52)

Robin and Judy Rose. One Down..., 1981,
color lithograph with gouache on
paper, by Howard Hodgkin (91.25)

Mrs. June Schuster. Captain Perry Roses -
Series 1969/5 C.R., 1965, acrylic on can-
vas, by Philip Hefferton (92.12)

Smithsonian Resident Associates. On the
Way, 1980, pen, brush and ink, and
watercolor on paper, by Jacob
Lawrence (91.67)

Smithsonian Resident Associates.
Flowers for a Country, 1991, color
serigraph on paperboard, by Mindy
Weisel (91.68)

Josephine C. Thornton. Untitled A,
1967, assemblage of aluminum,
painted aluminum and screws, by
Conrad Marca-Relli (92.15)

Donald M. Treiman. Hercules and Alces-
tis, 1983, oil on canvas, by Joyce
Treiman (91.58)

Donald M. Treiman. Untitled (The Sur-
veyor), 1982, pastel and pencil on
paper, by Joyce Treiman (91.59)

Donors of In-Kind Support

Balair. Service gift of director's transpor-
tation to and from Switzerland.

Duke Ellington School of the Arts for
providing studio space for a week-
long workshop.
Luso-American Foundation, Lisbon,
Portugal. Service gift of transporta-
tion to and from Portugal for two
Hirshhorn Museum curators.

Lufthansa German Airlines. Service gift
of artist’s transportation to and from
Switzerland. Also provided service
gift of transportation for works of art.

Loews L'Enfant Plaza Hotel,
Washington, D.C. Provided reduced
room rates for visiting artists and
scholars.

National Air and
Space Museum

Donors of Financial Support

$500, 000 or more

Grupo IGS
United Technologies Sikorsky Aircraft

$100, 000 or more

Ameritech Foundation

Boeing Defense & Space Group,
Helicopters Division

Estate of Pauline Edwards

GE Aircraft Engines

Lockheed Corporation

McDonnell Douglas Foundation

Embassy of the State of Kuwait

$50,000 or more

American Institute of Certified Public
Accountants

American Society of Plastic and
Reconstructive Surgeons, Inc.

Eastman Kodak Company

Paramount Communications, Inc.

$10,000 or more

Abbott Laboratories

Air Products and Chemicals, Inc.

Airline Pilots Association, Inc.

American Institute of Aeronautics and
Astronautics, Inc.

Buick

Champion International Corporation

CNN/World Economic Development
Congress

Cray Users Group, Inc.

The Emil Beuhler Trust

Fairchild Space & Defense Corporation

Federal Express

FTP Software, Inc.

Hughes Danbury Optical Systems, Inc.

InterCon Systems

Intermedics Orthopedics, Inc./PROTEK

Investment Company Institute

Keebler Company

Mr. & Mrs. John F. Mars

Martin Marietta Corporation

National Space Club

NEXT Computer, Inc.

Omnicom Group Inc.

SEI Corporation

SNECMA, Inc.

Society of Petroleum Engineers

TGV Incorporated

United Airlines

Mrs. Marion P. Vaughn

$5,000 or more

NASA

$1,000 or more

Fairchild Space & Defense Corporation

$500 or more

Mrs. Helen J. McCray

Donors of In-Kind Support

Arnone Whitaker & Associates, Inc.
Construction management for SR-71
aircraft shelter.

Bentley Carpet. Materials used in “Star
Trek” gallery.

Frederick J. Bell. Donated video tapes
used in public lecture series.

The Butcher Shop. Catering services
during construction of SR-71 aircraft
shelter.

Chrome Inc. Photographic assistance in
“Star Trek” gallery.

Circuit City. Materials used in “Star
Trek” gallery.

Collins Interior. Services in restoring
two Cessna 150 aircraft.

Corporate Flight Management, Inc.
Services in restoring two Cessna 150
aircraft.

Custom Signs Today. Project signage
for SR-71 aircraft shelter.

The Design Alliance. Architectural ser-
vices for construction of SR-71
aircraft shelter.

Digital Magic, Inc. Assistance with
“Other Worlds” film for “Where
Next, Columbus?” exhibition.

Dominion Caisson Corporation. Cais-
sons for SR-71 aircraft shelter.

Fairfax Hydorcrane. Cranes used for con-
struction of SR-71 aircraft shelter.

GE Astro Space. Half-scale model of
Mars Observer for “Where Next,
Columbus?” exhibition.

Georgetown Floorcoverings. Materials
used in “Star Trek” gallery.

IBM Corporation. Hardware used in the
creation of animated images for
“Where Next, Columbus?” exhibi-
tion.

JAYCOR. Structural engineering ser-
vices for construction of SR-71
aircraft shelter.

Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Provided
custom Rover footage, space footage
images and computer animation for
interactive multimedia programs in
“Where Next, Columbus?” exhibition.

Kiddie - Fenwal Fireline Corp. Fire
Protection. Fire protection system for
SR-71 aircraft shelter.

Lockheed Missiles & Space Company,
Inc. Assistance with “Where Next,
Columbus?” exhibition.

Martin Marietta Corporation. Assis-
tance with “Where Next, Colum-
bus?” exhibition.

McArdle Productions, Inc. Equipment
and services used in the production
of a motion picture for “Star Trek”
exhibition, and for “Where Next,
Columbus?” exhibition.

M.LC. Industries, Inc. Building struc-
ture for SR-71 aircraft shelter.

NASA. Assistance with “Where Next,
Columbus?” exhibition.

Northwest Airlines, Inc. Airline tickets
for official travel of “NASM Staff
Members.”

Novadyne Computers Systems. Main-
tenance services for computer equip-

I7I
ment in “Beyond the Limits” gallery
and the Center for Earth and
Planetary Studies.

Radiology Support Devices Inc.
Donated item used for “Where Next,
Columbus?” exhibition.

Reid & Cornwell. Structural engineer-
ing services for construction of SR-71
aircraft shelter.

Roland House. Participation in the
production of a motion picture for
“Star Trek” exhibition.

Santa Barbara Productions. Participa-
tion in the production of a motion
picture for “Where Next, Colum-
bus?” exhibition.

SETI Institute. Donated items for “Where
Next, Columbus?” exhibition.

Shaklee Corporation. Cleaning products
used at Garber Facility.

Silicon Engines, Inc. Donated supercom-
puter chips for “Where Next, Colum-
bus?” exhibition.

SNECMA, Inc. Provided goods and ser-
vices associated with opening of
WW exhibition, “Legend, Memory
and the Great War in the Air.”

Southland Concrete. Footings for SR-71
aircraft shelter.

Sound Advise. Participation in the
production of a motion picture for
“Where Next, Columbus?” exhibition.

Stanford University. Assistance with
multimedia programs for “Where
Next, Columbus?” exhibition.

Tangent Industries. Services in restoring
two Cessna 150 aircraft.

Tucon, Tenant Services. Foundation for
SR-71 aircraft shelter.

United Airlines. Airline tickets for offi-
cial travel of “NASM Staff Members.”

University of California. Hardware assis-
tance provided in editing interactive
multimedia programs for “Where
Next, Columbus?” exhibition.

Video Arts, Inc. Assistance with interac-
tive multimedia programs for “Where
Next, Columbus?” exhibition.

The Video Tape Library. Assistance with
interactive multimedia programs for
“Where Next, Columbus?” exhibition.

Volunteer Motor Express. Services in
restoring two Cessna 150 aircraft.

von Spaeth Productions. Equipment
and services used in the production

172

of a motion picture for “Star Trek”
exhibition, and “Where Next,
Columbus?” exhibition.

Warner New Media. Donated item for

“Where Next, Columbus?” exhibition.

Wavefront Technologies. Software
used in the creation of animated
images for “Where Next, Colum-
bus?” exhibition.

Western Images. Assistance with interac-
tive multimedia programs for “Where
Next, Columbus?” exhibition.

National Museum of
African Art

Donors of Financial Support
$10,000 or more

Mr. and Mrs. Milton Rosenthal
Shell Oil Company Foundation

$500 or more

Noah-Sadie K. Wachtel Foundation

$100 or more

David C. Driskell
Mrs. Alma Parker
Mr. and Mrs. Barry Pierce

Donors to the Collection

A. Omotayo (Tayo) Adenaike. Water-
color on paper by Nigerian artist A.
Omotayo (Tayo) Adenaike (1992-01-
ool).

Anonymous donor. Two linocuts by
South African artist Joel Sibisi (1991-
26-001—002).

Anonymous donor. Cast copper alloy
Senufo staff top, Céte d'Ivoire (1992-
07-001).

Dr. Ernst Anspach. Bembe mask, Zaire
(1992-03-002).

Honorable Jack Faxon in memory of
Pauline Faxon. Two Kuba textiles,
Zaire; one Akwete textile and one

Wukari royal display cloth, Nigeria
(1991-24-001—004).

Toby and Barry Hecht. Two Dida skirts,
Céte d'Ivoire (1991-23-O0I—002).

Walter and Carlen Kreutzer. Mongo bas-
ket, Northern Zaire (1992-08-001).

Dr. and Mrs. Robert Kuhn. Kongo fig-
ure, Zaire (199I-22-001).

Dr. and Mrs. Robert Kuhn. Yoruba
divination cup, Nigeria (1992-10-001).

Mr. and Mes. James Phoenix in memory
of Charlotte MacFadden. Kabyle pen-
dant and pair of earrings, Algeria
(1992-L1-O0I—002a/b).

Mr. and Mrs. Kelley Rollings. Yoruba
twin figure, Nigeria (1991-25-001).

Robert Farris Thompson. Textile by
Brazilian artist Abdias do Sacramento
Nobre (1992-09-001).

Judith Timyan. Baule gold pendant,
Céte d'Ivoire (1991-27-001).

National Museum of
American Art

Donors of Financial Support

$100, 000 or more

The PEW Charitable Trusts

The Henry Luce Foundation

The Consolidated Natural Gas Co.
Foundation

NYNEX Foundation

Anonymous Individual

$50,000 or more

The Horace W. Goldsmith Foundation
William T. Kemper Foundation

$10, 00 or more

Diane and Norman Berstein Founda-
tion, Inc.

Elizabeth Cheney Foundation

Hafif Family Foundation

Mr. & Mrs. Thomas C. Cousins

Philip Morris Companies, Inc.

Phillip & Patricia Frost Philanthropic
Fund
The C & P Telephone Co.

The UCLA Foundation

Mr. Samuel Lehrman

James Renwick Alliance

IBM Corp.

Anheuser-Busch Companies, Inc.

David Parker

Melvin Cohen

The Barra Foundation, Inc.

The Overbrook Foundation

William R. and Nora Lichtenberg Foun-
dation, Inc.

Eugene J. Kaplan

International Bank of Commerce

Mrs. Nan Tucker McEvoy

$1,000 or more

Mr. & Mrs. Louis H. Rappaport

Mrs. Daniel Fraad

Pat & Darle Maveety

Thomas A. Troyer

Jack Rachlin

Edwin I. Colodny

J. Kent & Marcia D. Minichiello

Mr. & Mrs. J. Marshall Hemphill

Smithsonian Women’s Committee

Estelle R. Wolf

Hugh Halff, Jr.

Mr. & Mrs. Aiken W. Fisher

Mr. & Mrs. C. Victor Beadles

Mr. & Mrs. Dale F. Dorn

Mr. & Mrs. Donald J. Douglass

Mr. & Mrs. Frederick D. Hill

Mr. & Mrs. Garett J. Albert

Mr. & Mrs. Harvey Rambach

Mr. & Mrs. Jack Kay

Mr. & Mrs. Jack W. Warner

Mr. & Mrs. Jacob Kainen

Mr. & Mrs. Jacques Lennon

Mr. & Mrs. James A. Mitchell

Mr. & Mrs. Meyer Potamkin

Mr. & Mrs. Norman Bernstein

Mr. & Mrs. Richard B. Pfeil

Mr. & Mrs. Richard J. Schwartz

Mr. & Mrs. Robert P. Kogod

Mr. & Mrs. Stephen Gordon

Mr. & Mrs. Willard G. Clark

Mr. Arvin Gottlieb

Mr. Barney A. Ebsworth

Mr. David S. Purvis

Mr. Edward J. Lenkin & Ms. Katherine
L. Meier

Mr. Eli Wilner & Ms. Barbara Brennan

Mr. Paul Mellon

Mr. Samuel G. Rose
Mrs. Jacqueline Hume
Mrs. John Farr Simmons
Ms. Constance R. Caplan

The Honorable Joseph P. Carroll & Mrs.

Carroll
Mr. & Mrs. Gerald Peters
Mr. & Mrs. James F. Sams
Mr. & Mrs. Melvin Lenkin
Mr. Ira Spanierman

The Honorable Edward F. Wilson & Dr.

Edward T. Wilson

$500 or more

Harold and Irma Rubenstein Charity
Foundation

Jon and Joyce Kaplan

Daniel Q. Callister

The Honorable John D. Rockefeller, IV
and Mrs. Rockefeller

$250 or more

Franklin M. Schultz

Mr. & Mrs. Joseph J. Corn

Owen M. Lopez

Philip Golbin

Alan Berg

Doris Bowers

R.C. Kemper, Jr. Charitable Trust and
Foundation

Stephen & Jane Lorch

BankAmerica Foundation

Gary & Brenda Ruttenberg

Donors to the Collection

Abramson, Anne
Abramson, Ronald
Allen, James E.
Alpert, Stephen S.
Alvarez, Lucy
Anonymous
Anonymous
Anonymous
Anonymous
Anonymous
Anonymous

Bank of America
Bauer, Henry
Beard, Derrick, Joshua
Beck, Hermine
Beck, Lloyd
Belkin, Annie

Belkin, Mike

Bellwether Foundation, The

Bennet, Bruce

Berler, David K., Dr. and Mrs.

Bojorquez, Charles “Chaz”

Brill, Warren, Dr. and Mrs.

Broun, Elizabeth

Burford, Byron

Butler, Martha F. (Bequest of)

Cardiero, C. Philip

Cawood, Gary

Cohen, Sharon

Colquitt, Alice Henderson (Bequest of)

Colquitt, Carlton

Consolidated Natural Gas Company
Foundation, The

Cornell, Robert Memorial Foundation,
The

Dalsheimer, George

Davies, David L.

Denton, Robert T.

Doty, Joan

Doty, Robert

Eagle, Leatrice

Eagle, Melvin

English, Helen William Drutt

Evans, Terry

Fadley, Donna

Fadley, Ken

Fairbanks, Richard, Mrs.

Farnsworth, Donald

Fleisher, Janet Gallery

Foss, Glenn (Bequest of)

Friedman, Estelle

Garbow, Diane

Garbow, Mel

Genn, Nancy

Gordon, Mackenzie

Gottlieb, Arvin

Hackeling, Paula

Hammer, Carl Gallery

Harmon-Seder, Deborah

Hartzler, James

Hartzler, Mary Peterson

Hemphill, Herbert Waide, Jr.

Herman, Lloyd E.

Hernandez, Anthony Louis

Hillary, James EF.

Huber-Brown, Naomi

Hushon, John D.

Imagination, Mr.

Inches, Henderson, Jr.

Johnson, Bebe Pritam

Johnson, Warren Eames

Joseph, Peter T.

173
Kaplan, Eugene

Kaplan, Linda

Kaplan, Louis

Karlins, Nancy Thoman
Kaufman, Glen

Keck, Caroline

Keck, Sheldon

Kirkeby, Paula

Kirkeby, Phillip

Klebanow, Hy, Mr. and Mrs.
Koteen, Bernard

Koteen, Sherley

Kottler, Howard (Bequest of)
Krakow, Barbara Gallery
Kriesberg, Irving

Lambert, Don

Larson, Jane Warren
Larson, John

Lee, Amy Freeman
Lehrman, Robert

Levitt, Josephine

Levitt, Sol

Lewis, Marcia

Lewton, Val

Lobdell, Frank

Lund, David C.

Mainzer, Frank

Mancini, Salvatore

Mannes, John

Mannes, Nancy

Martinez, Eluid

Mason, Arthur K.

Mason, Jane

Mathews, Thomas Anthony, Dr.
Mennello, Marilyn
Mennello, Michael

Millard, Betty

Morriss, Helen Oliver
Myers, Frances

McGuire, Dorothy L., Mrs.
Noland, Kenneth
Nordlinger, Marjorie
OlLman, John, Mr. and Mrs.
Paris, William

Parkman, Elmerina
Parkman, Paul

Parrasch, Franklin

Pepper, Curtis, Mr. and Mrs.
Perkins Center for the Arts, The
Phillips, Matt

Phillips, Pearl E.

Pickens, Alexander L.
Pickens, Frances J.

Pierce, Aaronetta

Pierce, Barry
174

Pierce, Beverly

Pierce, Joe

Podesta, Anthony T.

Podesta, John D.

Pratt, Greta

Prown, Jules D.

Rachlin, Jack

Rachlin, Marjorie

Ranger, Henry Ward,

Through the National Academy of
Design (Bequest of)

Reif, Doris

Renwick Alliance, James, The

Rich, Walter

Rodriquez, Kirby

Rose, Jean

Rosenfeld, Eleanor T.

Rosenfeld, Michael

Rosenfeld, Samuel J.

Rossbach, Ed

Rubenstein, Harold

Ruhe Family, The

Ruttenberg, Brenda

Ruttenberg, Garry

Samuels, Isadore M., Dr. and Mrs.

Sanchez, Emilio

Schad, Fern

Schad, Tennyson

Schiffer, Suzi

Schmidt, Joan Armstrong

Schroeder, Patricia, Honorable

Schuster, Daniel B., Dr.

Schwarm, Larry

Schwartz, Robin

Scott, Bill

Scott, Honor

Seder, Robert

Shimomura, Roger

Smith, Alvin, Dr.

Smith, Joshua P.

Snow, John V.

Stadiem, Bernard Edward

Stiha, Vladem, Mr. and Mrs.

Stoplen, Adam

Swift, Byron

Swift, Susan

Thoman, Mark

Thomas, Anne Wall

Thornton, Josephine C., Mrs.

Toumanoff, Eileen

Toumanoff, Vladimir

Treiman, Donald

Treseder, Roberta Rice, Mrs.

Turner, Charles F.

Turner, Robin L.

Twining Gallery, The
Wayne, June

Wilkin, Carol

Wilkin, Donald

Williams, Alice T., Mrs.
Woodman, Charles
Woodman, Jocelyn

Young, Richard, Mr. and Mrs.
Zimmerman, Florence
Zimmerman, Leonard
Zorach, Tessim, Mr. and Mrs.
Zuckerman, Eleanor
Zuckerman, Stanley

National Museum of
American History

Donors to the Collection

Benny Aasland: 47 Duke Ellington Society
Bulletins from January 1979 to Sep-
tember 1989 (1990.3216).

Accademia delle Scienze di Torino
(through Prof. Italo Lana): set of 2
punched cards in the style of English
mathematician Charles Babbage
(1992.3054).

Rita J. Adrosko: printed paper dress,
1965-70 (1990.0065).

Richard E. Ahlborn: tag maker's kit
with 124 tools and supplies
(1989.0393); 3 statuettes of saints,
1980s, and a chromolithograph print
of the virgin and child made in Hun-
gary, ca. 1900 (1990.0118; chromo-
lithograph and prayer card featuring
Sainte Anne of Beaupre (1991.0338);
18 artifacts reflecting popular
religious practices acquired at the
Shrine of Don Pedrito in Los Olmos,
Texas (1991.0741); Eastern Orthodox
Church convention badge of 1910
(1991.0778).

Mrs. Whitney J. Aitcheson: 36 glass
lantern slides and a wooden case,
1860-90 (1992.0383).

Government of Aitutaki, Aitutaki Post
Office: 7 stamps, 3 first day covers,
and a souvenir sheet of Aitutaki
(1991.0030).

Warren Albert: SVE microfilm reader
(1992.0310).
Edward W. Alfriend, IV: 79 fonts of
typemetal and wood printing types
and 48 miscellaneous printing tools
and equipment (1986.0975).

Dr. Julian Le Roi Altenhaus: campaign
button, “Scientists, Engineers,
Physicians for Johnson” (1992.0019).

Harold Altman: 15 etchings by Mr.
Altman, 1958-65 (1991.0425).

Amalgamated Clothing Workers:
pamphlet about occupational safety
and a booklet about the Taft-Hartley
Act (1991.0792).

American Eagle Associates, Inc.
(through Michael J. Carroll): 3 proof
medals commemorating the soth
anniversary of the Japanese attack on
Pearl Harbor (1992.0253).

American Federation of Labor and Con-
gress of Industrial Organizations
(through L. G. Nygren): 9 pieces of
Remington Rand punched card
equipment (305981).

American Philosophical Society
(through Herman H. Goldstine):
cable post-tensioned cast iron girder
made by J. A. Gendell & Company
and used in the Farmers’ &
Mechanics’ Bank in Philadelphia,
1854-55 (991.0786).

Mrs. Helen and Polie L. Ames: 5
uniform items worn by Edwin Sear-
son of the U.S. Army Hospital Corps
during the Spanish-American War of
1898 and 9 uniform items and 6
medals worn by Montenegro soldier
Peter Bulatovich during WW I and
a painting of Mr. Bulatovich
(1987.0008).

Dr. Howard K. Ammerman: Golding
printing press (1991.0379).

Betty V. and Donald C. Anderson: 1948
track roadster racing car built and
raced by Dick Frazier and a Mutual
Racing Association insignia patch
(1992.0028).

Norman T. Anderson: stereo-grapho-
scope made in France, ca. 1890
(1992.0195).

Anonymous: 3 counterfeit U.S. $10 bills
(991.0847).

Lillian T. Anthony: elevator operator's
uniform blouse (1992.0153).

Government of Antigua and Barbuda,
Barbuda Post Office, Philatelic

Bureau: 30 stamps, 7 first day covers,
and a miniature sheet of Barbuda
(1991.0031).

The University of Arkansas, Depart-
ment of Psychology (through Prof.
Joel S. Freund): memory drum
(1979.3065).

Alex C. Armstrong: silver Cuzco
Federacion 8-rea/es coin of 1837
(1991.0761); Guatemalan 8-rea/ coin
of 1827 (1992.0098).

Mary P. Armstrong: 6 Bolivian coins,
1838-63 (1992.0103).

Mary G. N. and Col. Whitney
Ashbridge: 69 U.S. military uniform
items, accessories, and equipment
(316364).

Col. Whitney Ashbridge: 22 documents
relating to the U.S. Army Corps of
Engineers (1979.0661).

Associated Press (through Larry W.
Stephens): Associated Press sign from
a teletype machine (1992.0094).

Association for Computing Machinery,
Washington, D.C. Chapter (through
Joyce Amenta): 2 sets of microfiche
about the association and of its
newsletter, Computopics, 1958-78
(1980.3007).

Association of American Railroads
(through Joyce Koeneman):
videotape cassette titled “How to
Move America” (1991.3020).

Dr. Herbert R. Axelrod: matched quar-
tet of bows for 2 violins, a viola and a
cello made by Roger Zabinski, ca.
1991, a violin bow made by Henryk
Kaston, 1991 (1991.0827).

Cindy and Richard W. Babcock: arm-
style school bus stop sign, 1930s
(1984.0357).

Jane F. Babson: 19 pieces of woman's
clothing and accessories worn by
Mrs. Babson, 1960-88 (1991.0852);
woman's bracelet made of English
coins, 1944-46 (1992.0051).

Clark J. Bailey: “Devil's Fiddle” tam-
bourine on a staff with bells, cym-
bals, and a carved devil's head
(1991.0746).

Baker Furniture Company (through
Roderick G. Kreitzer): mahogany
armchair made in 1990 from a design
adapted in 1932 from an 18th-century
English chair (1991.0201).

Florence I. Balasny-Barnes: Abraham
Lincoln commemorative plaster bust
patented by Joseph A. Bailly, ca. 1865
(1992.0049).

Christopher Balon: woodland
camouflage utility uniform shirt,
trousers, undershirt, and pair of
boots worn by Mr. Balon in Saudi
Arabia, and a Kodak disc camera
damaged by shrapnel during the
SCUD missile attack at Dhamran,
1991 (1991.0558).

Sophronia Waesche Barbaro: 5 18th- and
19th-century lace borders and an
embroidery frame with a partial
sampler attached (1991.0448).

Carol R. Bare: 9 woman's dresses, 2
suits, and a coat, all designed by
Clair McCardell, 1939-58 (1991.0720).

Mary Ellin Barrett, Linda L. Emmet,
and Elizabeth I. Peters: 77 pieces of
memorabilia including plaques,
medallions, trophies, and clothing,
all earned and used by Irving Berlin
(1991.3198).

Lt. Col. Richard J. Barringer, USAF:
Keuffel & Esser architect's convert-
ible level and a tripod (1992.0060).

Dorothy Bingham Bartley: Royle Jac-
quard card-cutting machine, ca. 1937
(1987.0131).

Preston R. Bassett (through Margaret
B. Stern): 27 bicycle lapel pins and 9
souvenir items with bicycle motifs,
1880-1910, and a set of tobacco card
premiums with images of early
bicycles, ca. 1940 (1990.0294).

Alan G. Bates: 3 woodworking molding
planes (1991.0061).

Fannie V. and Richard J. Beall: Sterling
skirt marker with its original box,
1900-30 (1991.0002).

Jean and Michael Becker: 3/4-size
violoncello made by Abraham Pres-
cott in the early 19th century
(1992.0005).

Roger L. Beckett: box of Lindsay's safety
pins patented in 1878 (1991.0164).

Robert W. Bebout: 4 bowls, 2 vases, a
clock, and a set of rings and disks
ready to be assembled into a vase, all
made of wood turned on a lathe in-
vented by Mr. Bebout (1991.0060).

David R. Beiler: 23 videotape cassettes
of television spots compiled for

175
“Prime Time Politics 1950-89”
(1991.3036).

George A. Beiser: Keuffel & Esser splin-
ing set used in designing aircraft
canopies (1992.0346).

Ethel A. Belinky: 64 items of WW II
service uniforms, accessories, ac-
coutrements, insignia, and medals
(1979.0580).

Rev. John F. Bellwoar, S.J.: cassock,
belt, and crucifix of a Roman
Catholic priest (1992.0114).

Bradley F. and Virginia W. Bennett: 24
Roman Imperial bronze coins
(1991.0806); 122 ancient Siculo-
Punic, Carthaginian, Roman, and
North African coins (1991.0807); 176
ancient Greek coins (1992.0091); 274
ancient Greek coins (1992.0265).

Mildred Bercik: framed wreath made by
Maggie Jane Clements Meador from
the hair of her brothers and sisters,
1888-89 (1991.0702).

Laura Berger, Mabel Brinkley, Judith L.
Britcher, Martha Ouzts, G. Harold,
Gilley, Royce M., and Mrs. Ruth
Stephens, American Foundation for
the Blind (through Walter L. Deck-
er), Erskine College (through Wil-
liam S. Hall), Heroes, Inc. (through
Joseph Riley), National American
Cancer Association (through Robert
J. Task), National American Heart
Association (through Gena Wilson),
National Presbyterian Church
(through Henry R. Mastroni), and St.
Augustine By the Sea (through James
Kauhane) in memory of Lula Fur-
long: framed late 18th-century flag
fragment with 13 stars and stripes pos-
sibly flown on the USS Constitution
(1992.0011).

Harriet Best (through Virginia Best
Norton) in memory of Gerald M.
Best: lantern chandelier used in a
Central Pacific Railroad passenger car
about 1895 and a lithograph drawing
of the locomotive J. B. Jervis
(1991.0319).

Frank Bezek: set of papers, set of
photographs, set of envelopes, jour-
nal, parchment document, and a
portfolio, all related to the maritime
career of G. C. Abbott, 19th century
(1991.3181).

176

David Biermann: variable displacement
wobble-plate pump model built in
1965 by Arnold E. Biermann (1992.0111).

L. W. Bills Company (through Harold
C. Roedre): fire alarm telegraph tap-
per bell (1991.0872).

Lenore R. Binzer: 13 pieces of rural
clothing including 5 boy's trousers
and knickers, 3 woman's dresses, 2
wrappers, a blouse, skirt, and a
nightgown, 1860-1920 (1991.0553).

Francis S. Blasdell: 2 combination tooth-
pick/earscoops, one of gold and the
other silver (1991.0661).

Maj. Joseph E. Bles: U.S. national flag
shoulder sleeve insignia, 1991
(1991.0713).

Roger W. Blessing in honor of Victor
Warren Blessing: 2 transistors, a core
plug, and a Bureau of Mines zir-
conium sample (1992.0340).

David Board: bronze U.S. Bicentennial
Medal of the Masonic Grand Lodge
of the District of Columbia, 1976
(1992.0379).

Alan T. Bogan: military ration “Meal
Ready to Eat” of frankfurters
(1991.0821).

Boston Women's Health Book Collec-
tive (through Judy Norsigian): 4
books and 4 posters (1991.3077).

Peter J. Bould: photograph of Duke El-
lington by Herman Leonard
(1990.3185).

Thomas W. Bower: man's 2-piece gabar-
dine suit with shirt, necktie, belt,
and cuff links, 1968 (1991.0845).

Mrs. Donald L. Bowers: T-shirt in-
scribed “FDR-CIO Labor Center”
with an image of President
Roosevelt, 1935-36 (1992.0239).

Doris M. Bowman: hand-woven plaid
pattern wocl blanket, 19th century
(1991.0364).

Anne M. Boyle and Thomas D. Boyle:
Doremus-style lamppost letterbox
made by the Reading Stove Works in
1894 and an Esterbrook fountain pen
and inkstand (1989.0566).

Dr. Regis Louise Boyle: doll (1992-0152).

Banco Central do Brasil, Departamento
do Meio Circulante (through Carlos
Eduardo T. de Andrade): 500-cruzeiros
coin commemorating Columbus’ dis-
covery of America, 1991 (1992.0082);

(through Antonio Carlos Meda): 9
Brazilian coins of 1989-90
(1991.0762); Brazilian coin com-
memorating the 1992 United Nations
Conference on Environment and
Development (1992.0323); specimen
bank note commemorating the 1992
United Nations Conference on En-
vironment and Development
(1992.0361); (through Alcides de
Schueler): Brazilian bank note for
50,000 cruzeiros (1991.0869).

Frank O. Braynard: 68 ocean liner docu-
ments and artifacts related mainly to
the S.S. Leviathan, 1914, and the S.S.
United States, 1952 (1991.0856).

Fleur S. Bresler: length of feed bag
fabric and a quilt top made with feed
bag fabric squares (1991.0815).

A. Bridgers: .6 cubic foot of archival
material relating to Duke Ellington
(1990.3235).

Alice E. Briscoe: General Electric fruit
and vegetable peeler (1991.0273).

Marguerite Wale Broaddus: bill from
couturier Lucien Lelong of Paris
made out to Miss Wale, May 1929
(1992.0139).

Rodger M. Brodin: miniature replica of
the military nurse statue for the Viet-
nam Women’s Memorial made by
Mr. Brodin (1991.0782).

Irvin A. Brooke: 4 embroidered textiles
and a piece of silk dress fabric
(1991.0763).

Darlene Brown: .15 cubic foot of
newsclippings, photographs, articles,
programs, and other archival material
relating to the career of Duke El-
lington (1991.3156).

Naomi Huber Brown: .15 cubic foot of
photographs, notes, publicity book-
let, phonograph album cover, and an
artist's contract from Duke
Ellington's concert tour of Asia in
1963 (1991.3150).

David Winner Brudon (through Wil-
liam R. Piper, Jr.): 6 pieces of amber
jewelry, 1900-60 (1991.0342).

Joanne M. and William R. Bruegman
Il: 15 children’s books, 3 board
games, 2 phonograph record jacket
covers, a toy key set, Busy Boy tool
chest, and a Davy Crockett drinking
glass (1990.0449).
James H. Bruns: U.S. mailbox made by
the Carlisle Foundry of Carlisle,
Pennsylvania in 1942 (1990.0484); 3
postage stamp vending machines
(1991.0170).

Enid J. Buckland, Jeanette M.
Hartman, and Helen Meyers: 18th-
century portable sundial made by
Chapotot of Paris, France (1991.0884).

Barbara P. Bush: fatigue blouse worn by
Mrs. Bush in Saudi Arabia during
Thanksgiving 1990 (1991.0121).

Madelyn B. Cafruny: 2 photographs, a
kishk-grinding pestle, and a bone
marrow scoop brought to America by
Lebanese immigrants (1990.0672).

X. and E Calico (through Ferran Calico
Estivill): bronze medal commemorat-
ing D. E Xavier Calico Rebull in
1991 (1991.0760).

William H. Calk, Sr.: lacrosse stick
(1992.0155).

Leopoldo Cancio: 12 ancient Greek
coins and a Chilean peso dated 1868
(1991.0748); 6 ancient Roman coins
(1992.0033).

Luis Orlando Carneiro: 2 books, a book
review, and a phonograph record of
“The Duke in Sao Paulo” (1990.3221).

J. B. Carpenter in memory of Mrs. Wal-
ter Willard Boyd: 10 woman's dres-
ses, 2 hats, and a suit, 1940s-70s, 3
girl’s dresses, a robe, and a hair orna-
ment, 1930-48, and 3 boy's suits, 1938-
45, all worn by members of the Boyd
family in the Washington, D.C. area
(1991.0698).

Walter A. Carpus: 4 undershirts and 4
pairs of drawers of U.S. Army winter
white wool, mackinaw coat and
undershirt of the Harbor Defense
Command, and a German wool
sweater, all WW II (1979.0834); 2
U.S. Navy manuals for radio
receivers of WW I (1991.0693).

Kathleen Hand Carter: 6 reels of film
depicting rural life and cotton farm-
ing in Mississippi in the 1930s and
1940s (1991.07 43).

Alexander Cartner: Pioneer laser disc
player, noise reduction unit, and
remote control unit (1991.0551).

Russell K. Cashdollar: 2 reproduction
advertisement sheets for streetcars or

buses (1986.3007).

Wallace Cathey: child's “Howdy
Doody” platform rocking chair, 1953
(1991.0877).

Howard Cayton: 2 postal mailers for
recorded tape (1991.0263).

CERBEC, Inc. (through John W. Lucek):
display case containing 23 sets of
Noralide silicon nitride ceramic bear-
ing balls and components (1991.0865).

Nadine Lane Chapman (through Sandra
Hart Shaw): woman’s mourning pen-
dant, 1800-20 (1992.0302).

Coby Chase: 6 buttons and 6 docu-
ments related to the Superconduct-
ing Super Collider (1992.3027).

Judge Charles I. Chassen: breechloading
rifle made by J. H. Merrill of Bal-
timore, Maryland, patented July
1858, with a nipple wrench built in
(1991.0855).

Chemical Abstracts Service (through
Dr. Ronald L. Wigington): IBM
2280-5002 film recorder used in
phototypesetting from 1968 to 1974
(314462).

James J. Childs: 16.5 cubic feet of ar-
chival papers relating to the field of
numerical control of machinery, 1952-
70 (1991.3085); 8.5 cubic feet of ar-
chival papers relating to the field of
numerical control of machinery, 1957-
87 (1992.3056).

Valentine Z. Chilk: 10-pound size sugar
sack (1991.0439).

Government of the Republic of China,
The Philatelic Department, Direc-
torate General of Posts (through Ho
Sheng Hsia): 90 stamps, 18 first day
covers, and 2 souvenir sheets of the
Republic of China (1990.0363).

Kim Christiansen: pair of silver earrings
made by Mr. Christiansen with
braille dot-writing, one says “har-
mony” and the other “serenity,” 1992
(1992.0276).

Elvira Clain-Stefanelli: medal com-
memorating the U.S. Bicentennial
made by the French Mint
(1991.0258); 91 Roman Republican
coins and a Roman Imperial coin
(1991.0688); 61 silver Saxon and Ger-
man Principality coins of the 16th-
19th centuries (1991.0757); 3 foreign
commemorative medals (1991.0758); 5
medals and souvenir items from

various numismatic conventions and
events, 1956-79 (1991.0805); 10 credit
cards issued to Vladimir Clain-
Stefanelli (1992.0050).

Mrs. Connie and Robert L. Clark in
memory of Beverly Clark: uniform
coat, shirt, skirt, and hat worn by
Beverly Clark during the Persian
Gulf War (1991.0789).

Jack R. Clifford: 3 transistors made by
RCA, Raytheon, and Sylvania
(1992.0068).

Rosemary Clooney: gold phonograph
record on a plaque commemorating a
million copy selling recording
(1992.0185).

Richard F. Clothier: 11 examples of play
money (1991.0814).

The Coca-Cola Company, Archives
Department (through Philip F.
Mooney): 3 WW II era Coca-Cola
bottles (1992.3084).

Barbara J. Coffee: aluminum bonbon
dish, mid-2oth century (1991.0819); 3
phonograph records with an album
cover of music sung by Carmen
Miranda (1991.0843).

Spc. Melissa Coleman: desert pattern
battle dress uniform shirt and
trousers worn by Specialist Coleman
in Saudi Arabia, 1990-91 (1991.0377).

A. A. Conant: woman's black wool com-
bination muff-handbag, 1934-40
(1992.0076).

David Condon: ink and watercolor
drawing of a Mexican War battle
scene (1985.3140); Remington A4
sniper's rifle with scope, WW II
(1991.0733).

Robert B. Condon: 2 experimental pen-
cil pointer models, an adjustable pen-
cil pointer mechanism, and a pencil
pointer (1991.0766); 3 bow pencils
made by Keuffel & Esser, Gramercy,
and Omicron and a rule and beam
compass made by T. Alteneder Sons
(1991.0793).

Maria Constantine: set of steel mil-
linery trimmer's needles, 1850-1920
(1991.0449).

Government of the Cook Islands,
Philatelic Bureau, Post Office: 6
stamps, 6 first day covers, and 2
souvenir sheets of the Cook Islands
(1991.0029).

177
Dr. G. B. Cordova: baking peel or
spatula used to put bread into and
take it out of an oven, ca. 1950
(1992.0059).

Cornell University, New York State
Agricultural Experiment Station,
Department of Horticultural Sciences
(through Hugh C. Price, Ph.D. and
John Sanford, Ph.D.): 2 prototypes of
the Biolistic particle gun, a set of ac-
cessories, and a videotape cassette
showing a microprojectile inside a
plant cell, 1987-90 (1991.0785);
School of Civil and Environmental
Engineering (through Arnim H.
Meyberg): 2 wrought-iron bridge
spikes removed in 1910 from the
Amesbury-Newburyport, Mas-
sachusetts suspension bridge built in
1810 (1992.0006).

Maj. Rhonda L. Cornum: Prisoner of
War uniform jacket, shirt, trousers,
sneakers, and a sling for a broken arm
issued to Major Cornum by Iraq
when captured during the Persian
Gulf War, 1991 (1991.0402).

Martial P. Corriveau, P.E.: first day
cover cancelled at both Cheyenne
Post Office and the Wyoming State
Capital Station on February 23, 1990
(1991.0008).

James Cotton: Hohner Marine Band har-
monica in the key of A, made in Ger-
many (1991.0367).

Cornelia Cree: 35 pieces of WW I
military and YWCA uniform items
and accessories, insignia, and docu-
ments (1979.0341).

Adrian Cronauer: Webster Webcor
Model 181-1 wire recorder (1992.0315).

Jeane Cronauer: pressed glass sauce dish
in the Canadian pattern, 1874-97
(1992.0366).

Ruth W. Crook: electric soldering iron
with 7 interchangeable tips, 6 files, a
file box, and a can of soldering flux
(1991.0278).

Pauline Sherman Crouse: 18 documents
and a silver identification tag from
Mrs. Crouse’s WW I Army Nurse
Corps career (1977-1042).

Government of Cuba, Coprefil,
Empresa Comercial Filatelica: 78
stamps, 37 first day covers, and 2
souvenir sheets of Cuba (1991.0167).

178

George S. Cuhaj: 2 bronze medals
designed by Mr. Cuhaj, 1990-92
(1992.0252).

Barton S$. Cummings: 4.5 cubic feet of
correspondence, personal papers, and
manuscripts documenting the adver-
tising career of Mr. Cummings, 1938-
90 (1992.3042).

Cindy Cutshall: 3 crayon and pencil
drawings by Miss Cutshall and a pin
commemorating the first human
gene therapy experiment in 1990
(1992.0072).

Government of the Republic of Cyprus,
Ministry of Communications and
Works, Department of Postal Ser-
vices (through Andreas Stamataris): 6
stamps of Cyprus (1991.0336).

Bonnie Dank: 42 phonograph records con-
tained in u album covers (1988.0384).

Edward M. Davenport: bathtub,
medicine cabinet, sink, and a toilet
(1992.0146).

S. LeRoy Deavenport and Judith D.
Mitchener: 8 film reels of cotton
production in Mississippi, 1938-50
(1992.0144).

Della DeMoss and Kay Fredericks: 2
dresses, 2 pairs of sleeves, a crinoline,
and a pair of panties worn by Ms.
Fredericks when dancing on a black
light stage in the 1950's (1991.0677).

Government of Denmark, Pastens
Frimaerkecenter (through Hanne
Lund): 65 stamps of Denmark and 60
stamps of the Faroe Islands (1991.0112).

Josephine M. DeRosa and Louise H.
Puleo: 5 clothing items comprising a
performance outfit worn by Johnny
Puleo (1991.0264); 3 harmonicas
played by Johnny Puleo (1991.0265).

Pamela A. Derrenger: feather duster, as-
bestos burner pad, box-form grill,
and a vegetable peeler (1992.0208); 3
palette-form individual tables, an as-
bestos burner pad, and a whisk
broom (1992.3113).

Lynda DeWitt: tie clip with the U.S.
Postal Service emblem (1991.0065).

Norman Diamond: 2 Johnson fare box
manuals, 1929 (1985.3066).

Dennis Dimmer: book of advertise-
ments about Duke Ellington and his
orchestra at the Chicago Coliseum,

1944 (1991.3149).

District of Columbia Bureau of Public
Works (through FE. Clayton Dade):
street cleaning cart with shovel and
broom (1992.0272).

Edward di Valli: linen cloth, table
cover, shirt, cape, cameo brooch, and
a book brought from northern Italy
about 1907 and a set of naturalization
papers of 1942 for Louis and Rosa Ot-
tino (1990.0345).

William C. Dolowy, M.S., D.V.M.: .5
cubic foot of documents related to
Dr. Dolowy’s research on the enzyme
L-asparginase now used in human
leukemia therapy (1992.3157)-

Arnold Donahue: WW I enlisted man’s
coat, breeches, and gas mask
(1979-0915).

Donley & Miller Ltd. (through Peter R.
Miller): 4-piece pink-glazed terra
cotta architectural spandrel panel
made by Northwestern Terra Cotta
Company for the Western Methodist
Book Concern building of Chicago,
Illinois in 1899 (1991.0887).

Richard G. Doty: American Numis-
matic Association centennial com-
memorative medal, 1991 (1991.0685).

Colleen and Paul M. Dougherty:
military training saddle with acces-
sories and a bridle, all made by D.
Mason and Son, Ltd. of Birmingham,
Great Britain, ca. 1916 (1992.0012).

T. Sctipps Downing: 6 cipher machines
including prototypes and 2 sets of
cipher rotors invented by Edward H.
Hebern, 1920s-30s (1991.0190); 128
cipher machine components, photo-
graphs, drawings, documents, and
patent papers related to Edward H.
Hebern's work in the 1920s and 1930s
(19.91.3033).

Robert A. Draghi: door (1992.0151).

Eileen and Richard C. Dubrow: 2 bal-
loon-backed side chairs made by J.
H. Belter & Company of New York
City, 1856-61 (1991.0867).

Dudley Sports (through John F. Fur-
long): 8 softball-making objects in-
cluding 4 covers, 2 cores, a partially
sewn ball, and a stitching clamp,
all used by workers in Haiti
(1991.0442).

Michael P. Duffy: hardtack biscuit
decorated with ink, “C.B. Ford, Com-
pany E, 2nd New Jersey, 1898”
(1987.0502).

Randolph N. Dyer II: set of films,
photographs, and documents related
to the LCL Corporation and Mr.
Dyer's role as Executive Vice Presi-
dent, 1960-72 (1991.3053).

George W. Earle, Jr.: Craftsman pipe
wrench, 1930s (1991.0059).

Eastman Kodak Company: polycontrast
filter kit (1992.0142); Business Infor-
mation Center (through M. Lois
Gauch): book, Government War Adver-
tising, 1918 (1991-3025).

Maj. Michael G. Edrington, USA: lined
desert night camouflage parka, 1991
(1992.0169).

Lawrence E. Edwards: 5-cent U.S.
Treasury check made to Mr. Edwards
on May 8, 1947 (1992.0250).

Robert S. Edwards: knight's helmet
radiator ornament from a late 1920s
Willys-Knight automobile (1991.0148).

Albert M. Eldridge in memory of Clyde
N. Eldridge: W. & L. E. Gurley tele-
scopic solar transit, ca. 1944, with a
notebook of photographs and instruc-
tions and a 1970 Gurley Ephemeris
(1991.0809).

Mercedes Ellington: photograph of
Duke Ellington (1991.3148).

Ruth Ellington: 2 videotape cassettes of
“Sacred Music of Duke Ellington”
(1990.3220).

The Duke Ellington Society, New York
Chapter (through Morris Hodara): 49
newsletters of the New York Chapter
of the Duke Ellington Society, Sep-
tember 1986-June 1991 (1991.3161).

Stevenson Enterline: photograph album
documenting the construction of the
first cantilever bridge in Quebec,
1905 (1992.0074).

Dr. Barbara Epremian: woman's brown
poplin maxi-length raincoat, 1970
(1991.0090).

Elliot Erwitt: empty leather-covered
wooden box made to hold a magic
lantern projector (1992.0385).

Joseph Evans: flag of the Rom Gypsy
Nation (1991.0333).

Timothy Evans: man’s brocade smoking
jacket, 1890-1920, and a woman's
medieval revival silk dress, 1908-12
(1991.0850).

Douglas E. Evelyn: 18 Boy Scout books in-
cluding 15 merit badge booklets, a
water safety book, leader's program
notebook, and a handbook (1991.0801).

Government of the Faroe Islands,
Philatelic Service, The Faroese Postal
Administration: 80 stamps and 6
first day covers of the Faroe Islands
(1991.0028).

Suzanne Farrell: pair of autographed bal-
let toe shoes and a costume worn by
Ms. Farrell in the ballet “Don
Quixote” in 1965 (1991.0863).

Edward C. Fechter: 47 sets of watch
parts, gauging equipment, and dial
manufacturing equipment, 1880s-
1960s (1990.0579).

Dr. Daniel C. Fielder: boxed set of At-
lantic telegraph cable samples of
1869 (1991.0866).

Bernard S. Finn: Star electric heating pad
(1991.0274); Metals Masters toy
telephone in original box (1991.0276);
Hankscraft ceramic baby bottle
warmer, electric massager and spot
reducer, and a Kenmore electric hair
dryer, ca. 1949 (1991.0410); Crosley
Cathedral radio (1992.3055).

Howard M. Finn: 301 U.S. 1-cent coins
consisting of 63 large cents of 1794-
1857, 4 flying eagle cents of 1856-58,
55 Indian head cents of 1859-1909,
and 179 Lincoln cents of 1909-75, 31
U.S. 1/2-cent coins of 1794-1857, and
u U.S. 2-cent coins of 1864-73
(1992.0324).

Jane A. Finn: “Draft Perot in ’92” but-
ton (1992.0133).

Michael J. Flack: woman's beaded eve-
ning bag, 1905-20 (1991.0874).

Kenneth J. Fleck: 12 War of 1812 era
military uniform buttons excavated
from Sackets Harbor in Lake Ontario
in 1978 (1988.0499).

Shelly J. Foote: alto saxophone made by
E E. Olds and Son of Fullerton,
California about 1958 (1992.0119).

Frederick Forscher: letter dated February
23, 1890 recording the sale of Carl Auer
von Welsbach’s invention of the gas-
light mantle to the Austrian Gas and
Electric Company (1991.3178).

Michele Forzley: box of peddler’s no-
tions used about 1897 by Ms.
Forzley's grandfather (1990.0231).

George V. Foster: desert camouflage bat-
tle dress uniform shirt, trousers, and
hat worn by Mr. Foster during Opera-
tion Desert Storm in Saudi Arabia,
1990-91 (1991.0323).

Beatrice A. and Jacques Francais: folk
fiddle with bow and case made by A.
B. Calhoun in 1896 (1991.0706).

Jean K. and Dr. W. David Francisco:
shawl embroidered with silver and
gold metallic yarn on black net, 19th
century (1992.0079).

Postmaster General Anthony M. Frank:
pen used by Mr. Frank to sign the
charter establishing the National
Postal Museum in November 1990,
and a matching pencil (1990.0620).

Ruth E. Fraser: U.S. Postal Service let-
ter carrier's uniform dress trousers
and Eisenhower jacket of 1948
(1991.0667).

Margaret L. Frick: diary notes, activity
notes, a letter, and a pamphlet from
Ms. Frick’s uth grade year in New
York City, 1939 (1991.3008).

Sidney Fruman for the Fruman family
in memory of Nathan Fruman: violin
made by F. Fruman in 1911
(1991.0826).

Helen-Marie Fruth: cottage clock made
by the Waterbury Clock Company
(1990.0166).

Paul Fry: 6 WW II posters (1987.0730).

John H. Fugate: leather-bound
notebook with schedule carried by a
Pony Express rider from Nebraska
(1990.0564).

Gateway Coin Club of Merced County
(through Joel W. Anderson): medal
designed by Mr. Anderson com-
memorating the 5oth anniversary of
the founding of Castle Air Force Base
in 1941 (1991.0687); brass medal com-
memorating the Yosemite Valley
Railroad, 1992 (1992.0380).

General Motors Research Laboratories,
General Motors Technical Center
(through Arthur F. Underwood): ex-
perimental radioisotope radiation
projector with its prototype, holder
for radiation source, set of turbine
blades, tool for measuring blade wall
thickness, and a tool for measuring
foundry sand moisture (1991.0424);
radiography assembly, replica radia-

179
tion source, moisture gauge, and a set
of metal legs (1991.3073).

Joseph Genovese: International Record-
ing Company electric slave clock and
the mechanism for a slave clock
(1988.0104).

Albert C. Gielow: 5 photographs of the
buildings and ivory work done at
Wood & Brooks Company of North
Tonawanda, New York, 1917-50s
(1992.3160).

Mary W. Gilbert: 3 negligee robes and 2
evening gowns, 1910-45 (1992.0134).

Dr. James R. and Karen Gildenston,
Scott Andrew Gildenston, and
Ronita Lynn Gildenston: experimen-
tal cathode ray oscilloscope tube
made by H. W. Weinhart in 1932
(1992.0001).

The Gillette Company, Gillette North
Atlantic Shaving Group (through A.
Bruce Cleverly and P. K. Hoffman):
sterling silver and platinum-plated
editions of the Gillette Sensor razor,
1990 (1991.0136).

Arthur F. Goldberg, M.D. and Esther
Goldberg: stoneware chimney pot
with eagle motif made by Walter
Smith of the Superior Clay Corpora-
tion of Unrichsville, Ohio, ca. 1975
(1991.0345); 4 steins, 2 pitchers, and a
mug, all made of salt-glazed
stoneware by White's Pottery of
Utica, New York, and a covered bowl
made by Karen Karnes (1992.0278).

The Golden Ball Tavern Keepers, Inc.
(through Dorothea M. Waterbury):
sheet of 9 unissued lottery tickets
made in 1784 for repair and improve-
ment of the Waterbury Bridge on the
Boston Post Road, Massachusetts
(1991.0662).

Alan J. Goldstein and Sheila G. Small:
2 Superman comic books with 2
phonograph record sets, 1940s
(1992.0018).

Claire P. Gordon: 2 cubic feet of papers
relating to the career of Rex Stewart
(1991.3155).

Harold Gordon: photograph of Louis
Agassiz and friends by August Son-
rel, 1871 (1990.0326).

Robert B. Gordon: 3 volumes of
mechanical engineering laboratory
reports written by Albert Birdsey

180

Starr while attending Sibley College at
Cornell University, 1905-06 (1991.0824).

Prof. Robert S. Gordon: set of wooden
geometric models demonstrating
crystal structure (1991.0868).

Mrs. Ralph S. Gorton, Jr.: woman's silk
paisley shawl of 1849 and a pair of
woman's leather riding gloves, 1850-
99 (1991-0853).

Mrs. Kenneth Gosney: 3 feed sacks with
decorative printed patterns (1990.3214).

Barbara E. Gottlieb: leather-bound
potter's notebook of the late 19th cen-
tury (1992.3138).

D. L. Graham: 4 woman's dresses and
jackets, 1936-50, and a girl's pilgrim
outfit of 1932 (1991.0737).

Noel Gray: 2 pieces of Australian paper
currency (1991.0832); Australian 10-
dollar bank note (1992.0032).

Dave Grayson: 2 hairpieces and a make-
up kit used by Mr. Grayson to make-
up John Wayne for the movie True
Grit, 1968 (1991.0441).

Greenbelt Center Elementary School
(through John M. Vanschoonhaven):
Atlantic Magazine of June 1990
(1990.3113).

Eric Greenleaf: 17 linen tracings of
machinery from the Corliss Steam En-
gine Company and the International
Power Company (1992.0002); 37
linen tracings of steam engine and
boiler components from the Corliss
Steam Engine Company, 1880-1910
(1992.0337).

Adelaide Rendleman Grieve: mother-of-
pearl and feather fan with its original
box purchased at Faucon in Paris in
1928 (1991.0798).

Robert H. Groh, M.D.: Oschner
electric shock therapy apparatus,
1941 (1992.0261).

Howard A. Guernsey (through Richard
L. Guernsey): 2,610 phonograph
records of jazz music (1988.0698).

Arthur J. Gutman: whiteware pitcher
with floral decoration made at
Monumental Pottery in Baltimore,
Maryland, 1880s (1992.0344).

Jim Hail: Soap Box Derby racing hel-
met, shirt, wheel cover, and program
from Mr. Hail’s participation in the
National Finals in Akron, Ohio in
1950 (1991.0440).

Kenneth E. Halderman: 12 military
uniform items and equipment of
Cuba, 1983 (1991.0822).

Rosalie Anne Hansen: woman's pink
crepe teddy, 1926-27, navy blue wool
knit bathing suit, 1930s, and 2
photographs of Mrs. Hansen’s mother
wearing the bathing suit (1992.0088).

Teresa Hanyok: Fedders window unit
room air conditioner, 1954-57
(1992.0347).

Carter Harman: 10 audiotape reels of in-
terviews Mr. Harman conducted
with Duke Ellington, 1956 and 1964
(1991.3084).

Diane Harris: pair of woman's gold-
colored earrings, 1989 (1991.0697).
Elizabeth M. Harris: Sigwalt “Chicago”

printing press (1992.0016).

Michael R. Harris: 4 cigar box labels
and a whiskey bottle label with
sports themes (1991.0426).

Hart, Schaffner, & Marx (through
Robert Connors): 6 cubic feet of ar-
chival material of the men’s clothier
firm of Hart, Schaffner, and Marx
(1991.3167).

William E. Hartung: Weathers turn-
table with a polarizing power supply
(1991.0409).

Harvard University (through Dr. L.
Gard Wiggins): 3 sets of relays from
the Harvard-IBM Automatic Se-
quence Controlled Calculator Mark I
computer (1983.3006).

John Hasse: Ampex Model 750 tape re-
corder, ca. 1965 (1987.0927).

James Hearn: 2 silver coins of China
(1992.0099).

Heinz U.S.A., Division of H. J. Heinz
Company (through Edwin C. Lehew):
Heinz ketchup bottle of about 1910
(1992.0219).

William H. Helfand: 982 documentary
ephemera related to medical topics
including catalogs, labels, almanacs,
postcards, tradecards, blotters, adver-
tisements, prints, pamphlets, and car-
toons (1990.3170).

Roslyn and Dr. Sydney Helfen: Ironrite
electric ironing system with chair, ca.
1943 (1992.3071).

Katherine Hemenway in honor of Eldee
Wilson: Welta Refleckta camera
made in Germany, ca. 1947 (1992.0248).
Kathryn Henderson: 2 trays com-
memorating Jacqueline and John
Fitzgerald Kennedy (1991.0430).

Claude E. and Ruth L. Hensinger: wed-
ding dress made and worn by Mrs.
Hensinger in July 1947 from the
parachute used by Major Hensinger
to bail out of his B29 in 1944, and a
veil (1992.0236).

Billy Henson: stoneware face vessel
made by Mr. Henson of Lyman,
South Carolina, 1992 (1992.0395).

Dolores (Dee) A. Herget: wire-mesh
window screen painted with a pas-
toral scene and red-roofed bungalow
by Dee Hergert, ca. 1991 (1991.0813).

Hershey Community Archives (through
Pamela Cassidy): Hershey's chocolate
bar carton, 1941-47 (1992.3112).

Miles E. Hess: safe conduct pass and a
50-piaster note, both used by Mr.
Hess in South Vietnam (1988.3121).

Rear Adm. M. A. Hirsch: Keystone
Radioptican projector and a postcard
depicting the Bank and Royal Ex-
change Building in London
(1992.0308).

Carol Ann and Edward P. Hock: cover
from the last remaining Pony Ex-
press delivery reenactment, cover can-
celled January 2-3, 1991 in Payson,
Arizona (1991.0114).

Sjef Hoefsmit: 75 audiotape cassettes
recording the International Con-
ference of the Duke Ellington Study
Group meetings from 1981 to 1990
(1990.3224); LI audiotape cassettes
from the International Conference of
the Duke Ellington Study Group
held May 1990 (1991.3151).

Dr. Gilbert H. Hoffman: 27
photograph negatives and a positive
photograph concerning the Southern
Iron and Equipment Company
(1989.3119).

Dr. John N. Hoffman: wooden printing
frame made by the Rochester Camera
Company (1992.0141).

R. Hofmeister: Kienzle travel clock
(1989.0582).

Hohner, Inc. (through Jack C.
Kavoukian): 2 harmonicas, an
“American Ace” made by Hohner in
China and an “Official Scout” made
by Hohner in Germany (1991.0045).

Edward A. and Gloria J. Holub: man’s
watch chain with human hair fob,
1890-1906, and a woman's handker-
chief, 1917-18 (1991.0407).

Margarita Arias Hoover: 4 pas-
sementerie fragments, 2 sets of
drapery tiebacks, a pair of draperies
with a matching valence, and a
length of tied fringe (1990.0108).

The Hoover Company (through Charles
D. DeGraff): 17 small electric
household appliances including 8
flatirons, 4 toasters, a portable oven,
corn popper, biscuit baker, heater,
and a fan (1991.0835); Knapp-
Monarch hair dryer with its original
box, 1928 (1991.0844); 2 Knapp-
Monarch electric vaporizers, 1940
and 1950 (1991.0873).

C. R. Hoshaw: Brandis & Sons sextant
and Battenberg’s Course Indicator
Mark II navigation instrument, both
made for use by the U.S. Navy
(1991.0446).

Capt. Stephen P. Howard, USAF: 10
propaganda leaflets from the 1991
Gulf War, some printed on Iraqi
paper money (1992.0057); 10
propaganda leaflets and 2 uniform
patches from the Persian Gulf War,
1991 (1992.0067).

Timothy L. and Vera R. Howey: family
fallout shelter installed in the front
yard of the Howey’s home in 1955, in-
cludes 2 exhaust vents and an adver-
tisement (1992.3048).

Ellen Roney Hughes: 6 pieces of school
memorabilia, 2 drawings, a
skateboard, and a pair of ice skates
(1992.0116).

Mary K. Hulse: doily made from a feed
sack with hand-crocheted edges
(1991.0447).

Comdr. Charlotte L. Hume, USN
(Ret.): 3 watercolor sketches and a
poster proof by Ethel Reed, ca. 1890s
(1991.0818).

Arnold W. Hunnewell: Smith Pestmaster
garden duster, 1940s-50s (1991.0156).

Leon H. Hurd: stock car raced by Lee
Hurd, 1953-55, with a 1932 Ford
coupe chassis and a 1942 Ford V-8
flathead engine (1992.0029).

ICS Corporation (through Richard M.
Sales): Soviet medal made from metal

taken from a dismantled missile com-
memorating the first nuclear arms
treaty (1991.0233).

Indiana University, Department of
Physics (through Jordan Tillett):
Ayrton & Perry direct reading spring
ammeter and a Queen & Company
acoustic siren demonstration instru-
ment (1992.0140).

The International Boiler Works Com-
pany (through J. A. Beals): American
Society of Mechanical Engineers “L”
stamp for locomotive boilers
(1992.0107).

International Business Machines Cor-
poration, Thomas Watson Research
Center, Technical Vitality and
University Relations (through Dr. V.
Sadagopan): 14 optical crystals used
in early laser experiments by Dr.
Peter Sorokin (1985.0268).

The International History Week
Awards Committee and the Cultural
Enrichment Committees, Inc.
(through Kenneth W. Freelain):
pamphlet titled The Constitution of the
United States autographed by Warren
E. Burger, book titled The Capitol
autographed by the Virginia Congres-
sional Delegation, and a resolution
passed by the District of Columbia
Board of Education declaring Oc-
tober 13-19, 1991 “International His-
tory Week” (1992.0025).

State of Iowa, Department of Economic
Development, Marketing and Promo-
tions (through Bob Henningsen):
“Iowa Biotech Express” banner
(1991.0396).

Joseph D. Isola: wedding veil with
floral lace appliques and embroidery
worn by Natalie Balsarini Isola in
June 1924 and 2 wedding
photographs (1991.0328).

Government of the State of Israel, Min-
istry of Communications, Philatelic
Service: 8 first day covers of Israel
(1991.0138).

Istituto Culturale Materiale e Ar-
cheologia Industrie (through Bruno
Corti): silver medal honoring the Is-
tituto Culturale Materiale e Ar-
chaelogia Industrie, 1990 (1991.0804).

Jabel Incorporated (through Daniel D.
Herman): 3 rings made by Jabel In-

I8I
corporated which were reproduced
from the Smithsonian Institution's
Division of Costume collection, 1990-
91 (1991.0701).

Virginia B. Jachowski: silk kerchief il-
lustrating the Machinery Building at
the Pan-American Exposition in Buf-
falo, New York (1990.0357).

Richard Jackson: official publication
from the Duke Ellington Exhibit at
the Vincent Astor Gallery, New York
Public Library, July u-August 18,
1979 (1990.3186).

Dorothy Jacobs: saxophone-shaped
kazoo made in Japan (1991.0683);
memorial plaque for a girl who died
in 1913 (1991.0742).

Wynne James III: facsimile image of
Joseph Barbiere, Jr. sent from Paris
to Lyons, France by Jean Caselli's pan-
telegraphy method in 1867
(1992.0292).

Barbara Janssen: striped wool shawl and
a printed cotton feed bag (1991.0421).

The Bank of Japan (through Y.
Murakami): 2 500-yen coins com-
memorating the 20th anniversary of
the U.S. reversion of Okinawa to
Japan, 1992 (1992.0218).

Jbi, Incorporated (through Lisa Lindahl
and Hinda Miller): woman's “Jogbra”
sports brassiere, 1977-80 (1991.0172).

Jebco Incorporated (through Stephen K.
Giddens): U.S. Postal Service Express
Mail collection box for next day
delivery, 1990 (1990.0474).

C. Francis Jenkins: stereo camera
(1992.0211).

Jensen Tools Inc. (through S. L. Jensen
and Norman J. Sloan): attache-style
tool case with 73 tools used to repair
computers and other electronic equip-
ment (1991.0104).

Mrs. Betty Johansen in memory of Ralph
E. Goad: unfired clay railroad telegraph
insulator, ca. 1915 (I991.3130).

D. Wayne Johnson: silver medal by
Alex Shagin honoring Christopher
Columbus, 1989 (1992.0132).

Marjorie Johnson: 18 postcards, 1909-20
(1990.0662).

Miriem E. Johnson (through Elizabeth
Kern and Louise W. Marsh): woman's
mother-of-pearl and lace fan, 1880-
1900 (1991.0700).

182

The Journal of Commerce (through
Kenneth W. Manz and James R.
Steckel): Intertype linotype machine
No. 1 of 1913 (1991.0708).

Ann L. Kallal: 4 Roman Catholic prayer
cards, a prayer book of 1902, diploma
from St. Leo's School in Chicago of
1923, and a theater Playbill of 1934
(1990.02.48).

Constan G. Kanellos: Mauserwerk STG-
44 German assault rifle (1991.0676).

Benita J. Kaplan: Red Cross headband
of WW I (1992.0171).

Janie M. Kash: model of the De Witt
Clinton locomotive with tender and a
set of 3 coaches made by Peyton L.
Morgan, 1931-33 (1992.0036).

Flora D. Katz: button, “I Gave My
Tooth to Science,” given to donors
during studies to measure strontium-
90 in baby teeth (1991.0392).

Inga F. Kear in memory of Karl Friedrich
Corbach: American Beauty electric
tailor's iron used by Mr. Corbach with
original box and card (1991.0433);
American Beauty electric tailot’s iron
used by Mr. Corbach (1991.3078).

Kimberly Kelly: program commemorat-
ing the Baltimore Orioles Opening
Day of Orioles Park at Camden
Yards, 1992 (1992.0166).

LaVerne Y. and Rufus G. Kelly:
rotogravure section of the Philadel-
phia Tribune newspaper dated July 2,
1931 (1989.0214).

Shirl L. Kemps: 2 pairs of locking pliers
used in watchmaking (1991.0334).

Kenwood U.S.A. Corporation, Com-
munications and Test Equipment
Division (through Joel E. Berger): 3
transceivers with accessories used at
amateur radio station NN3SI
(1986.3077).

Jean Keppler: Loring hand sewing
machine, Ultra Stitcher with marker
in original box, and a Christmas
handkerchief made in China during
WW II (1991.0673).

Keuffel and Esser Company: 26 sets of
calculating rule components made by
Keuffel & Esser (1983.3008).

Billie Jean King: tennis dress
(1992.0122).

George King: 2-piece dress of knitted
ribbon and a notebook of knitting

samples, both made by Lee S. King
(1990.0165).

University of London King’s College,
Department of Physics (through Myles
Tempay): 55 pieces of electrical and
physical apparatus related to the work
of Charles Wheatstone (1990.0539).

Frank Klapthor: 7 furniture fabric
samples (1991.0861).

Flora Kletzky: woman's housedress
made by the Cardinal Cotton Cor-
poration of New York City, 1957-59
(1991.0390).

Ron Knappen: candlestick-style non-
dial telephone, ca. 1916 (1992.0086).

Prof. Allen Koenigsberg: replicated
brass knob for a Scott Phonautograph
(1990.0351).

The Bank of Korea, New York Repre-
sentative Office (through Stella L. M.
Cerruti and Han-Keun Yun): 18
Korean coins making up proof sets
for 1989-91 (1991.0663).

Richard E. Kremer: cyanotype of con-
struction on the Boston elevated rail-
way taken March 26, 1900
(1992.0200).

Charles S. Krockmal: 6 glass light
shades (1992.0178).

Charles S. (Charlie) Lamb: 3 ventrilo-
quist dummies used by Mr. Lamb's
father, Fred Lamb (1992.0225).

E. Gerald Lamboley: 6 letters written
by Japanese-American students to
their former teacher during intern-
ment during WW II (1992.3150).

Dr. Mildred A. Lamm: 3 Japanese jac-
quard-woven pictures (1990.0232).

J. C. Landis: 2 containers of Weedone her-
bicide, 1940s and 1950s (1992.3077).

Christian S. LaRoche: Porter's garden
telescope and a set of optical com-
ponents, 1920s (1992.0242).

Alan Leat: 4 photocopies of coverage of
Duke Ellington in the Melody Maker
and a brochure from the Duke El-
lington Tribute Concert Benefit for
Cancer Research held June 16, 1987
in London (1990.3193).

Elizabeth MacKay Leavitt and James K.
Leavitt: Sampsel automatic damper
control, ca. 1940 (1992.0426).

Leon's Auto Parts (through Gloria S.
Thompson): windshield from a 1956
Ford automobile (1989.3106).
June W. Leonard: 53 laboratory and
field collecting apparatus, charts,
notebooks, and educational aids used
by the late Dr. Robert M. Leonard, a
professor at George Washington
University (1991.0689); 39 pieces of
laboratory apparatus and glassware,
10 wooden stands, an analytical
balance, and a polariscope, all used
by Dr. Robert M. Leonard
(1991.0691); Lutz pantograph and a F.
G. Hunt flexible rule (1991.0694); 2
sets of botanical illustrations, a set of
kymograph tracings, a laboratory
notebook, thesis notebook, and a
photograph, all used by Dr. Robert
M. Leonard (1992.0024).

Robert D. Leonard, Jr.: cast marble dust
token good for $5 in trade at the
Chicago Coin Club (1991.0686).

George Lerner: Mr. Potato Head Funny-
Face Kit of 1952 and a Mr. Potato
Head Family game of 1984 original-
ly invented by Mr. Lerner in 1949
(1991.0394).

Emma and Jay Lewis: porcelain pitcher
depicting Bret Harte characters made
by the Union Porcelain Works, 1870s
(1991-0735).

Jay A. Lewis: hydraulic press
demonstration model made by E. S.
Ritchie & Sons of Boston, Mas-
sachusetts (1992.0084); melodeon
made by Abraham Prescott of Con-
cord, New Hampshire, ca. 1836
(1992.0085).

The Library Corporation (through
Robert F. Asleson): Hitachi CD-
ROM laser disc drive and 3 compact
discs for the LC MARC bibliog-
raphic database, ca. 1984 (1991.0185);
Hitachi CD-ROM laser disc drive
and 4 compact discs for LC MARC
ENGLISH (1991.3031).

Laurita C. Liles: woman's brownish-
rose satin crepe robe, 1920-40, and a
peach satin silk nightgown, 1930-45
(1992.0182).

Jennifer P. Locke: desert camouflage
jacket with insignia, 1991
(1992.0168).

Spc. David Lockett: Iraqi-issued
Prisoner of War utility uniform shirt
and trousers worn by Specialist Lock-
ett, 1991 (1991.0695).

Walter L. Loftin: 2 phonograph records
of railroad advertising for the radio,
1943-44 (1992.3085).

Richard R. Lombardi: 3 calculating
slide rules (1991.0445).

Annette E. and Edith C. Long: hand
stereo viewer and a glass plate
stereogram of a church (1992.0212).

Robert Lowry: lacquer tray picturing
the S.S. United States (1992.0064); 5
documents concerning the building
contract, sea trials, seaworthyness,
and christening ceremony of the S.S
United States (1992.3051).

Steven Lubar: Time Secretary clock and
desk calendar (1991.0690).

Luchow’s Restaurant: chef's coat, trousers,
and cap, and a waiter's jacket
(1992.0177).

Dan Lurie in memory of Earl G.
Browell: Graflex Speed Graphic Min-
jature camera with 20 accessories
(1991.0660).

Charles C. Lusk: set of 18 quilt blocks
in varying stages of preparation for a
friendship quilt, mid-19th century
(1992.0128).

Mable R. Luszcz in memory of Joseph
E Luszcz: 33 fonts of lead alloy print-
ing type (1991.0387).

Jane H. and Robert W. Macauley: open-
ing day pass of 1876, journal of 1881-
82, and a patents agreement contract
of 1905, all relating to William H.
Schofield and the Kansas City, Bur-
lington and Santa Fe Railroad, and a
season ticket to the 1939 New York
World's Fair issued to Mr. Schofield
(1992.0118).

Isabelle Stanley MacDonald in memory
of Samuel R. Stanley: plant stand
made by Joseph L. Stanley and a
smoking stand made by Samuel R.
Stanley, 1989 (1990.0360).

Roy J. Mackenzie: print of National Line
passenger steamships (1992.0378).

Dr. Douglas R. Mackintosh: premium
certificate from the Klondike Big

Inch Land Company, Inc. (1990.0487).

Dr. Jacob R. Marcus: book of New
Year's prayers in English, German,
and Hebrew, 1866, and an
embroidered phylactery bag contain-
ing 2 phylacteries, ca. 1900
(1991.0864).

Marin Numismatics (through Donald
H. Kagin): 25 dies for fractional gold
California coins, 1853-60 (1991.0870).

Marks & Clerk (through D. J. Devons):
hologram of a Dougald Clerk 2-
stroke cycle internal combustion en-
gine (1992.0213).

James H. Marrinan: silver-finished medal
commemorating the 100th anniversary
of the Triune Masonic Lodge of Mir-
riam Park, Minnesota in 1991
(1992.0131).

Mrs. Simonne Martin-De Groof: 2
postage stamps of Belgium
(1991.0292).

Massachusetts Institute of Technology
(through Earl Fuller): 5 components
of the HP9836 computer system sup-
porting Prof. Gerald Jay Sussman’s
digital orrery, 1984 (1991.0418).

Mastervoice, Inc. (through Gus Searcy):
Butler-in-a-Box home automation
system prototype, production unit,
and circuit board, 1983-86
(1991.0079).

William W. May, Ph.D.: 15 sets of docu-
ments and psychological tests used
by Prof. Mark A. May during and
after WW I (1992.3081).

Mazda Information Bureau: 6 employee
uniform items, 2 hats, 2 andon cords,
a set of kan ban placards, and a pair of
safety glasses (1989.0389).

Carl McConnell: film reel of the strike
at the Tennessee Copper Company in
Ducktown made by Mr. McConnell,
1938-39 (1991.0796).

Brad McCuen: 5 photocopies of album
covers, 3 audiotape cassettes, a press
manual of 1941, RCA vault inventory,
1936-52, and a magazine article
manuscript of 1958, all relating to
Duke Ellington (1990.3234).

Elizabeth McCullough: Harlequin har-
monica made in Germany, marked
“Johan Schunk, Castle Brand”
(1991.0828).

Analetis McFadden: 20 medals, pins,
and certificates, a mess spoon, and a
quartermaster pennant used by
Samuel W. Shaffer during his
military career, 1891-1940 (1985.0686).

Charles EF McGovern: 10 Popular Science
series books, 5 phonograph records, and
2 phonograph record jackets (1990.3151).

183
W. FE McGuinn: Stonebridge folding
lantern used by Col. Edward M.
Offley during WW I (1991.0444).

Andrew C. McKay: Gavin Model 503
UHF television converter (1991.0435).

Catherine F. McNally in honor of
Harold R. Fugere: cast iron Doremus-
style letter box of 1889 and a Groff
fastener (1990.0473).

Bill Melendez: animation cel with its
original watercolor background from
the television feature, “It’s the Great
Pumpkin, Charlie Brown”
(1990.0480).

Susan Meller: feed bag and an apron
made of feed bags (1992.0180).

Pauline A. Melton: burnt wood bowl
handmade by Lottie Blessing Jones
Melton, 1920s (1992.0374).

Stephanie Mendenhall: Arab-American
mihma ladle used to roast coffee over
an open fire (1991.0062).

Anne P. Merrill: 5 cork rings, 3 sets of
surgical instruments, a Bausch &
Lomb microscope, microscope lamp,
and a pair of safety goggles, all used
during early research into oral con-
traceptives (1991.0881); compensating
polar planimeter made by Keuffel &
Esser with instruction pamphlet
(1991.0882).

Thomas Micro: milkman's uniform of
the Sealtest Company consisting of a
shirt, pants, belt, jacket, and a cap
(1992.0115).

John and Terena Miguel: Gypsy Slava
candle of wax and ribbons, 1981
(1991.0301).

Seymour Milberd: Eastman photograph
negative album (1992.0304).

David D. Miller III: unisex T-shirt
which changes color according to
body heat or outdoor temperature,
1991 (1992.0062).

Dr. John D. Miller: 3 calculator snap-on
faces co-developed by Dr. Miller
(1991.0434).

Opal V. Miller: 2 school text books
marked “White Only,” ca. 1930
(1991.0802).

Rosemary Parisa Miller: depression era
bed sheet with patches and mends
(1990.0643).

University of Minnesota, Board of
Regents (through Barbara Muesing

184

and Prof. Alfred O. C. Nier): mass
spectrograph consisting of an ion
source, ion collector, and a vacuum
chamber used by Prof. Nier to
separate uranium-235 in February
1940 (1990.0446).

Vernon C. Mitchell: 43 buttons, 9
posters, 6 newspapers, 5 leaflets, 3
bumper stickers, 3 magazines, 2
pamphlets, a flyer, postcard,
brochure, press release, program,
packet, banner, and a photograph, all
related to the modern gay rights
movement (1990.0591).

Wayne Mitchell: child's clip-on necktie
of the 1964-65 New York World's
Fair (1992.0078).

MKS Instruments, Inc. (through John
J. Sullivan): Baratron Type 77
capacitance manometer consisting of
a pressure head and a pressure meter,
ca. 1967 (1992.0199).

Government of the Principality of
Monaco, Postes et Telecommunica-
tions, Office des Emissions de
Timbres-Postes: 26 stamps and a min-
iature sheet of Monaco (1991.0252).

Doris W. Monk: 2 Philippine military
officer's epaulets and a stripe
(1987.0875).

Mary E. Montgomery: elementary
school dog tag issued to Mary E.
Potts, ca. 1951 (1992.0173).

Henry Morris: book, The Art of Metal
Engraving, by Elizabeth M. Harris,
1991 (1991.0747).

Edward A. Morrison in honor of Joshua
Bradley Morrison and in memory of
Edward Bradley Morrison: Dietzgen
Commander set of drawing instru-
ments and a template (1991.0811).

Gertrude C. Morrison: pair of goggles
worn by Gertrude Ederle to swim
the English Channel on August 6,
1926 and a trophy presented to her
by William Randolph Hearst as the
Most Popular Athlete of 1926
(1991.0781).

Lois Morrison: 37 feed bags and a pillow
case made from a feed bag (1992.0191).

Gene Moser: 15 cubic feet of documents
relating to amateur journalism and
the Kelsey Company, manufacturer
of small printing presses, 1873-1927
(1991.3163).

Alfonso Mosquera Calligros: Peruvian
silver medal commemorating the
death of Aldo Moro (1991.0749);
bronze medal commemorating
Columbus’ discovery of the New
World designed by Armando Pareja
of Peru, 1950 (1992.0100).

Nicola Moss: bronze medal designed by
Ms. Moss for the University of
Minnesota's College of Architecture
and Landscape Architecture, 1991
(1992.0217).

Betty Jean Mowbray: 38 uniform items,
accessories, and insignia from the
WW II military careers of Betty Jean
Fox, Kingsley O. Mowbray, and Ted
E Mowbray (1989.0197).

Lt. Col. William B. Mozey, USA (Ret.):
pair of U.S. Army olive drab tennis
shoes, 1945 (1992.0031).

Carolyn Murphy: U.S. military mailbag
of 1943 (1991.0316).

Jack Murphy: Albion hand printing
press on its original wooden stand,
made by Hamilton & Cope of Lon-
don in 1845 (1991.0833).

Mrs. John H. Murray: 9 ceramic and 7
pressed glass items of American and
English manufacture (1990.0371);
woman's dress of 1978 and a purse,
1955-65, with strawberry motifs
(1991.0721); 3-piece tea set, 2 pewter
plates, 2 aluminum pie pans, 2
cookie cutters, a placemat set,
cake/bread pan, tea strainer, teapot
pad, patty pan set, clothespins in
original box, and a miniature tray
(1991.0825); 9 glass items and 2
ceramic items made in America, 3
ceramic items made in Great Britain,
and 2 ceramic items made in Italy
(1991.0875).

Ruth E. Myer: 1 psychological tests
and related material and an algebra
book by Joseph Ray, 1848 (1979.3064).

Janet V. Myers in memory of Fred N.
Vanderwalker: double-necked harp
guitar made by the C. F. Martin Com-
pany of Nazareth, Pennsylvania, ca.
1905 (1992.0179).

Dr. Alixa Naff: 2 pastry molds, a table
runner, and an Arabic language mis-
sal (1989.0274).

National Black Arts Festival (through
A. Michelle Smith): 6 posters, 2 bur-
tons, a T-shirt, visor, banner, and a
program from the first National
Black Arts Festival of Atlanta, Geor-
gia (1989.0382).

The National Philatelic Instirute
(through Lowell J. Myers):
reconstructed sheet of 400 Edison
Electric Light stamps of 1929 witha
signature by Thomas A. Edison
(1990.0297).

NCR Corporation, Peripheral Products
Division (through C. J. Dullea):
small computer system interface
protocol chip developed by NCR and
Shugart Associates, 1981-82
(1990.0505).

R. Stanley Nelson: uniform coat with
insignia, breeches, belt, and overseas
cap with insignia worn by Cpl. John
Nelson during WW I (1991.0378);
Ace toy printing press made by the
Superior Marking Company of
Chicago, Illinois (1991.0800); poster
with a wood engraving by Donna
Westerman and Scripps College
Press, 1991 (1992.0216).

Nestle Beverage Company (through
Susan Isphording): 23 containers for
coffee, 6 clothing items, 2 crates, 2
display signs, 2 cups and a saucer, 2
measuring cups, a sealed postal
mailer, jigsaw puzzle, painted win-
dow, and a thermometer, all related
to Hills Brothers Coffee (1991.0180).

Corinne Schey Netter: white cotton
batiste infant’s christening gown
handmade in 1913 by Mrs. Netter's
grandmother and used by the Schey
family until 1987 (1992.0075).

William A. Nevill: container of DDT
pesticide (1991.3088).

New Mexico State University: 47 sets of
drawings of the BTL Model 5 com-
puter and a list of drawings of the
computer system X-66744
(1983.3018); 8 components of the BTL
Model 5 computer (1987.0821).

New United Motor Manufacturing, Inc.
(through Michael Damer and Sharon L.
Sarris): kan ban card, andon board, and a
contract book used at an automobile
factory in the U.S. set up to work by
Japanese techniques (1989.0442).

New York Numismatic Club (through
Albert J. Zaloom): bronze medal

designed by Jonathan Swanson com-
memorating the club's 1,000th meet-
ing in April 1992 (1992.0137).

Government of New Zealand, New
Zealand Post, Philatelic Bureau
(through Basil E. Umuroa): 32
stamps of New Zealand (1991.0084).

Dallas E. Nichols, Jr.: button, “I Gave My
Tooth to Science,” given to donors
during studies to measure strontium-
90 in baby teeth (1991.0391).

Lillian Niemann: 60-year membership
pin, 50-year membership card, and a
3-year safe driving pin, all related to
Raymond W. Niemann’s postal
career and membership in the Na-
tional Association of Letter Carriers
(1991.0340).

Government of Niue, Niue Post Office,
Philatelic Bureau: 6 stamps, 3 first
day covers, and a souvenir sheet of
Niue (1991.0005).

The Richard Nixon Library and
Birthplace (through John H. Taylor):
videotape cassette of “Duke El-
lington at the White House,” 1969
(1991.3017).

George A. Norton III: lunchbox with
thermos illustrating “The Exciting
World of Metrics,” 1976 (1992.0404).

Government of Norway, Norwegian
Post Stamp Bureau: 4 stamps and 4
first day covers of Norway (1991.0217).

Noxell Corporation, a Procter & Gamble
Company (through Carrol A. Bodie):
12 cubic feet of Cover Girl advertising
materials, 1959-90 (1992.3044).

Sarah Noyes in memory of John Noyes:
carpet from the luxury liner The
Queen Mary (1988.0543).

Harold J. Nussbaum: 34 Crusader coins
(1991.0846).

Edward L. O’Brien: 44 financial docu-
ments pertaining to the purchase of
type and printing equipment for Fen
ton C. Fowler of Boston, Mas-
sachusetts (1990.3034).

Marjorie P. O'Connor in memory of
Florence Pierson Jobes: blue and
white jacquard double-woven cover-
let made by David D. Haring of Ber-
gen County, New Jersey in 1833
(1991.0829).

The Ohio Historical Society (through
Elizabeth R. Martin): 52 boxes of

glass plate negatives of Ohio
machine tool builder Long and
Allstatter Company, 1871-1933
(1991.0108); 33 boxes of glass plate
negatives of Ohio machine tool
builder Niles, Bement, Pond Com-
pany, 1889-1928 (1992.0243); 25 boxes
of glass plate negatives of Ohio
machine tool builder Hooven,
Owens, Rentschler Company, Inc.,
1882-1928 (1992.02.44); 17 boxes of
glass plate negatives of Ohio
machine tool builder Bement
which operated from the 1860s to
1889 under various names
(1992.0245); box of glass plate nega-
tives of Ohio machine tool builder
Niles Tool Works, 1871-89
(1992.02.46).

Anne R. Ohlbaum in memory of Judge
Stanley N. Ohlbaum: Bristol revolu-
tion counter and a check writer
(1992.0030).

Mr. Jonathan A. Oldlittles: admission
ticket to the U.S. House of Repre-
sentatives’ centennial commemora-
tion of Chief Justice John Marshall
on February 4, 1901 (1991.3106).

Olin Corporation (through P.F. Inman,
Jc.): 4 pattern 1-dollar U.S. coins
(1992.0081).

Craig A. Orr: 6 postcards and 3
photographs of women serving
during WW I (1991.3179).

Lee and Leslie Darrell Oskar: 3 Lee
Oskar harmonicas made in Japan by
Tombo and an “Oskamonica”
keychain (1991.0366).

Dr. George E. and Leora M. Osler: sur-
gical kit made by George Tiemann &
Company of New York for the U.S.
Army, 1860s (1991.0858).

Sandra Ottenberg in memory of Matil-
da Marcus Newman: violin made by
H. Derazey of Mirecourt, France
about 1880 (1992.0388).

Robert G. Owens: 19 volunteer
firefighter's artifacts used by Mr.
Owens’ parents including 5 awards, 3
T-shirts, a 9-piece dress uniform, 4-
piece turnout uniform and extra pair
of gloves, spanner wrench, coupling,
mug, a helmet shield, and a Ladies
Auxilary jacket, cape, patch, and pair
of earrings (1991.0857).

185
Rudy Padilla: 2 ink-decorated handker-
chiefs, 1986 and 1991 (1991.0431).
Richard M. Palange: SOHIO gas sta-
tion attendant’s uniform consisting
of a jacket, pants, and a patch
(1992.0156).

Edward W. Pasley: framed set of 49
U.S. Navy patches used on nuclear
fleet ballistic missile submarines
(1991.0739).

Mrs. Jefferson Patterson: 12 pieces of
clothing worn by members of the Pat-
terson family from the 1920s to the
1980s, 2 lists with samples for cloth-
ing being ordered in the 1920s, and a
bill for clothing ordered for the Lon-
don season in 1926 (1991.0398); 2 eve-
ning dresses, a gold leather evening
bag, pair of gold leather shoes, pair of
shoe stretchers, and a photograph of a
painting of Mrs. Patterson wearing
one of the dresses, 1970-84
(1992.0052).

Susan Pearcy: 6 proof prints and 2

linoleum printing plates used to
make the print The Golden Past, 1986
(1992.0214).

Sidney A. Peerless, M.D.: 67 Roman

Imperial bronze and copper coins of
the 3rd to 4th centuries A.D.
(1991.0751); 445 ancient silver Greek
coins, 6th to 2nd centuries B.C.
(1991.0830).

Pennsylvania College of Optometry, Al-

bert Fitch Memorial Library
(through Thomas L. Lewis): Nachet
microscope (1991.0682).

Government of Penrhyn Island,

Penrhyn Post Office: 8 stamps, 2 first
day covers, and a souvenir sheet of
Penrhyn Island (1991.0004).

Clifford W. Perrine: 2 mail straps used
by Mr. Perrine on his rural mail
route, 1940s-70s (1991.0668).

Philip Morris International (through
Elizabeth Butson): 10 videotape cas-
settes of Marlboro cigarette interna-
tional advertising (1989.3100).

Lloyd M. Pierson: 3 Ku Klux Klan
posters and a paper arm band found
in Virginia, 1965-66 (1991.0817).

H. Richard Piet in memory of Harry R.
Piet, Jr.: 19th-century ladies combina-
tion sewing table, writing table, and
Piano (1992.0192).

186

Playboy Enterprises, Inc. (through
Robyn L. Radomski): 10-piece
Playboy Bunny cocktail waitress
uniform, a Bunny of the Year trophy,
and a Bunny rules manual
(1990.0180).

Gloria Pocobello: accordion and case
made by Mrs. Pocobello’s father, Dan
Boudini, about 1918 and used in his
vaudeville act (1991.0684).

Rev. Gerry Pocock: program from the
“Concert of Sacred Music” held April
29, 1990 at Grace Cathedral in San
Francisco, California (1990.3189).

Poison Prevention Week Council
(through Ken Giles): 51 posters
reflecting 25 years of effort to prevent
childhood poisonings, 1962-86
(1986.3113).

George J. Poris: 4.11 cubic feet of busi-
ness files, videoscripts, and proof-
sheets, all related to Noxell
Corporation's Cover Girl and other
product advertising, 1953-78
(1990.3087).

Porta-Nails, Inc. (through Jerry D.
Coleman): Ring Master lathe with 3
wrenches (1991.0295).

Jean O. Porter: 17 U.S. Marine Corps
uniform items and souvenirs from
Pvt. Oliver O. Osterwise's duty in
the Philippines, 1900-5 (1990.0168).

Herman T. and Phenie R. Pott Founda-
tion (through John P. Fechter): tow-
boat pilot house structure from the
Herman T. Pott (1985.3036).

Pratt-Read Corporation (through H. B.
Woody Comstock): 8 cubic feet of ar-
chival material documenting the
ivory-working and piano keyboard-
making firm of Pratt, Read & Com-
pany, 1863-1968 (1992.3146); 2 stock
certificate books and a general ledger
of the piano-making firm of Sohmer
& Company, 1940-83 (1992.3147).

Prince George's County Public Schools
(through Estelle I. Gardiner): 2
school desk and chair combinations
(1990.0382).

Prince George's General Hospital
(through Robert J. Brady and Arthur
Kaufman, M.D.): u bottles of
dextrose 5% and 5 bottles of dextrose
5% with electrolyte #75 solutions
(1992.3139).

Kim Quilles: woman's down feather-
filled winter coat, 1984 (1991.0311).

David Rabinow: 2 electric Victor ad-
ding machines (1991.0791).

Evan Ragland: prototype daisy wheel
printer and 3 daisy wheel element
sets (1991.0412).

June D. Raisbeck: 2-piece apricot organ-
dy graduation dress and an invita-
tion, program, Honor Society
certificate, and diploma of Broadway
High School in Seattle, Washington,
earned by Mrs. Raisbeck in 1932
(1991.0775).

Ken Rattenbury: 4 audiotape cassettes
of interviews and performances by
Duke Ellington, a music transcrip-
tion, and Mr. Rattenbury’s Master’s
thesis about Duke Ellington, 1984
(1991.3160).

Marion Lacey Rau (through James V.
Schwent): 28 examples of Wedgwood
jasparware of the Henry Rau Collec-
tion made in Staffordshire, England,
between 1780 and 1875 (1991.0692).

Nancy Reagan: woman's 2-piece red
boucle suit designed by Adolfo
(1992.0069).

Reddy Communications, Inc. (through
Ashton B. Collins, Jr.): 14 objects
depicting the Reddy Kilowatt logo
including 12 souvenir products, a
pipe cleaner caricature of about 1929,
and a bronze sculpture by Michael
Lantz, 1947 (1991.0776).

Thorburn Reid: lighthouse shelf clock
made by Simon Willard of Roxbury,
Massachusetts, ca. 1825 (1991.0040).

Nathan Reingold: Remington Remette
portable typewriter, ca. 1943
(1991.0696).

Resources Capital Management Corpora-
tion in honor of Public Service
Electric and Gas of New Jersey
(through Eileen A. Moran): pair of
19th-century factory gates from the
Dobson Mill of Philadelphia, Pen-
osylvania (1991.0731).

Allene and Roger W. Reynolds: set of
dentures, silver medal, daguer-
reotype, certificate, and a
preamble/resolution, all related to
the careers of Dr. William Beall Mor-
rison and Dr. James Beall Morrison,
19th century (1991.0723); 10 letters
received by Dr. James Beall Mor-
rison, 1869-73 (1992.3148).

Allie P. Reynolds: New York Yankees
baseball uniform jersey, socks, and
cap, worn by Mr. Reynolds in 1954
(1992.0256).

Mary A. Rhoads: Kevlar helmet with
desert camouflage cover worn by
Reservist Rhoads in Saudi Arabia,
1991 (1991.0557).

Dr. Oscar W. Richards: 24 mathematical
documents, 4 calculating rules, 4 math-
ematical tables, and a trigonographic
computing device (1979.3074).

John H. Rick: wind meter made by F.
W. Dwyer Manufacturing Company
of Michican City, Indiana (1992.0372).

Ralph Rinzler: 2 straight-back oak
chairs with woven seats made by Wil-
lie Lee Nabors of Mississippi in 1974
(1989.0314).

S. Dillon Ripey: presentation medal
given to J. Dwight Ripley from the
contractors of the NYL & W Railway
(1983.0513).

Edwin K. Robinson: Italian handmade
sheet of paper with “Amalfi” water-
mark (1991.0420); wooden kitchen
bowl, late 19th to early 20th century
(1992.0274).

Franklin A. Robinson, Jr.: 2 pairs of
man’s trousers and a pair of overalls,
2 woman's dresses, and an infant’s
bracelet (1991.0722).

Mary Helen Robinson: Dvorak key-
board Royal typewriter of the 1930s
(1989.0619).

Francis D. Roche: orange rubber ball,
ping-pong ball, and a pair of hiking
socks (1992.0087).

Joan G. Rogers in memory of Allan
Gerdau: photograph album,
photograph of large elephant tusk,
booklet, and a letter, all related to
Otto Gerdau’s ivory processing firm
in the 19th century (1991.3164).

Barbara B. Rose, M.D.: oil painting of
Jane Findlay Irwin Harrison, daughter-
in-law of President William Henry
Harrison, 1840s (1992.0332).

Edward S. Rosenthal: leather football
(1992.0123).

Jack Rosenthal: framed panel of die im-
pressions of U.S. postage stamps is-
sued 1847-94 (1991.0371).

Richard M. Rosenthal: 2 baseball caps
(1992.0124).

Mildred Rubin: collodion microphoto-
graph on a glass microscope slide by
J. B. Dancer, ca. 1853 (1992.0266).

Mr. and Mrs. Robert M. Rubin made
possible in part by a gift to the
Smithsonian from Frederick H.
Gibbs in memory of William E
Gibbs: Miller 91 #18 front-wheel
drive racing car designed by Harry
A. Miller and driven by Ralph Hep-
burn in the 1929 Indianapolis 500
(1991.0889).

Katherine E. Rude: woman's 3-piece
bustle style dress, 1873-75
(1991.0369).

Joyce Rudick: woman's wedding dress
of white silk lace over tulle and taf-
feta made by Christian Dior in Paris,
France, June 1956 (1992.0205).

Sylvia Sacks: 2 girl's skirts, a pinafore,
and a dress, all made from feed sack
material (1991.0681).

Saints Peter and Paul Congregation in
memory of Miss Amanda S. Draye
(through Rev. Earl J. Schuh): Gor-
ham silver tray and bowl given to
Miss Draye in honor of her years of
service to Marshall Field & Company,
1950 and 1960 (1992.0294).

Sheila A. Sanders: 4 ointment mixing,
tube filling, and crimping machines,
and 2 boxes of tubes (1991.0777).

John O. Sands: 3 wooden printing
blocks from the Savage Textile Mill
of Savage, Maryland (1992.0008).

Mary Jo Satterthwaite: silver mesh
purse, plastic decorative comb, imita-
tion ivory plastic necklace, and a pair
of Chicago World's Fair souvenir ear-
rings, 1920s-30s (1991.0300).

Carl A. Scheele: house mailbox
(1992.0158).

Harry Scheele: SOHIO gas station
attendant's cap (1992.0157).

Joanne B. Scheele: 4 cookbooks
(1992.0159).

David Schiffer: 5 print progressives
for a science fiction print
(1992.0363).

Robert Schlachter: Ashcroft Coffin
averager with layout board and 7
calibrated wooden scales, ca. 1910
(1991.0885).

Mrs. C. B. Schmeltzer in memory of C.
B. Schmeltzer: 27 books on mathe-
matical subjects (1986.3110).

Dr. David Schmidling: .3 cubic foot of
manuscripts, reprints, and
photographs, once used by
astronomer Lewis M. Rutherfurd
from 1846 to 1884 (1991.3173).

Bonnie M. and Mike Schmitt: WW I
U.S. Army cobbler’s kit (1990.0385).

Charles F. Schneider, Jr.: sheet metal
sign advertising the Colt gas
generating plant, ca. 1920
(1992.0362).

Marilyn Schneider: pair of Willson Ser-
vice goggles and the original case, ca.
1918 (1992.0083).

Charles M. Schulz: Speedball pen, pen-
cil, and a brush used by Mr. Schulz
to draw “Peanuts” cartoons, a pen-
ciled draft cartoon, and a finished car-
toon (1990.0368).

Holli Alexander Schwartz: 2 art medals
designed by Ms. Schwartz titled
Connie's Piece and Ronnie's Recline,
1990 and 1991 (1992.0092).

SCM Corporation, SCM Business Equip-
ment, Research & Engineering
Patent Department (through Ar-
mand G. Guibert): 175 corporate and
legal documents, articles, service and
repair manuals, and corporate seals of
the Marchant Calculating Machine
Company and Smith Corona Mar-
chant (1979.3084).

Michael J. Seago: crew uniform shirt
and trousers and a program from the
1989 Miss Budweiser Hydroplane
Championship and an Indianapolis
500 Champion shirt worn by Rick
Mears in 1988 (1991.0745).

Mrs. Milo B. Shaffer: 3 puttees, 3 hand-
kerchiefs, 2 shirts, 2 coats, a pair of
breeches, pair of pistol grips, sleep-
ing bag liner, identification tag set,
hat, and a Medical Corps insignia,
WW I (1977.0468).

Arthur L. Shearer: 2 cubic feet of docu-
ments relating to 4 pottery companys
which operated in New Jersey, 1890s-
1950s (1991.3165).

Frank E. Shumard: championship belt
awarded to Earl Tracy for the 1879
State of Maryland-District of Colum-
bia Walk Races (1992.0041).

187
Robert E. Sieling in memory of Valeska
Kuschke Sieling: 2 pieces of trade
literature for agricultural machines
(1991.3070).

Caroline Thompson Simmons: statue of
a saint, 1690-1750, and a retablo
panel of San Antonio with the Infant
Jesus made by Louise Morris in 1932
(1991.0341).

Olive V. Sinclair (through O. R. Alenon-
da): framed photograph of a young
boy, ca. 1863 (1986.0796).

Rev. E. D. Smallwood: 19 pieces of
gospel sheet music and a scrapbook
of gospel music of the 1930s and
1940s (1992.3155).

Hugh L. Smiley: postal money order
stamper used in Lawrence, Kansas, in
the late 1800s (1992.2032).

Connie S. Smith in memory of Seymour
Smith: oil can, varnish can, gasoline
tank cap, combination wrench, set of
spark plugs, and a set of tire valve
stem covers, all taken off a 1921
Model T Ford (1990.0623).

Smoke-Trapper Inc. (through Jeannette
V. Orel): Smoke-Trapper ashtray in-
vented by Ms. Orel about 1975
(1988.0727).

The Society of Medalists (through
Robert Veitch): bronze medal titled
Creation designed by Marcel Jovine,
1990 (1991.0750).

South of the Border (through Ray
Schafer): plaster statue of advertising
figure “Pedro” (1985.3162).

Victoria Spencer and Art Michael Staats: 3
cubic feet of archival material relating
to New York City's Local 791 of the In-
ternational Longshoremen's Associa-
tion, 1910-78 (1991.3177); 42 documents
and memorabilia and a model scab
wagon related to the International
Longshoremen's Association Local 791
(1992.0048).

Elmer A. Sperry, III: brass gyroscope
model built by Elmer A. Sperry
about 1909 (1992.0038).

Harvey G., Lawrence R., and Norman
Stack: 39 engraving tools used by
Charles E. Barber and 2 plaster
models of the San Domingo peso
(1991.0803).

Stack's (through Harvey G. Stack): Lt.
Col. William Washington bronzed

188

copper medal and a Maj. John
Stewart lead splasher medal, both
1789 (1991.0759); (through Harvey
G., Lawrence R., and Norman
Stack): 2 badges with medals at-
tached, one from the 1940
American Numismatic Association

Convention, and the other from the

1947 convention (1991.0831); set of
documents relating to Charles
Barber's career as chief engraver for

the U.S. Mint in Philadelphia, 1880-

1917 (1991.0876).
Anthony Stamatelos: web belt and a
necktie, WW II (1992.0108).

Staples and Charles: poster of land avail-

able in Missouri (1992.0322).

Stapleton Foundation of Latin
American Colonial Art (through Ran-

dolph W. Renchard): 79 Ecuadorian
historical and artistic objects of the
17th-19th centuries including 44
pieces of silver and jewelry, 28
sculpted figures, 5 paintings, a large
candlestick, and a side chair
(1988.0616).

Sally Steinberg: 1 cubic foot of archival
materials relating to the history of
donuts in American culture, 1920-87
(1991.3175)-

Henry Z. Steinway: .33 cubic foot of
documents of Pratt-Read Corpora-
tion and various subsidiaries on
whose boards Mr. Steinway served,
1971-86 (1992.3156).

Mrs. Robert B. Stephens: 19th-century
scarf with a woven eagle and shield
motifs (1990.0644); 3 quilts, a piece
of copperplate-printed cotton, a
block-printed kerchief, piece of
quilted petticoat, and a fragment of
Indian embroidery, late 18th to 19th
centuries (1991.0228); 18th-century

copperplate-printed counterpane, ap-

pliqued quilt made about 1830, adver-

tising banner of 1885-90, and a quilt
made in 1890 (1991.0358).

Anna M. P. Stern: 8 pieces of majolica
dishes made by Chesapeake Pottery
of Baltimore, Maryland, 1882-87, and

2 majolica tiles made by George Mor-

ley & Sons of East Liverpool, Ohio,
1884-91 (1991.0206).

Marion Stevenson: 2 audiotape reels of
the Duke Ellington 75th Birthday

Tribute by Daddy-O Daylie on radio
station WJPC, Chicago, Illinois, on
April 28, 1974 (1990.3184).

Diane M. and Robert E. Stewart: Gul
Micro Scan radar detector (1991.0812).

C. Stoler & Co., Inc. (through James E.
Eller): Jewish child-sized casket with
excelsior bedding, 1991 (1991.0559).

Gerald E. Stone, M.D. and Lois Greene
Stone: medical tax stamp (1991.0432);
Vim-Silverman 3-piece biopsy needle
(1991.0552); woman's white and navy
spectator-style leather purse, 1955
(1991.0799).

Lois Greene Stone: 4 sets of dress
sketches, 2 lots of costume design
course papers, and an applique pat-
tern, all made by Mrs. Stone, 1948-89
(1991.0339).

Robert H. Strother, Jr. and Second
Christian Church (through Rev. Dr.
Rose Ann R. Duckett): 4
photographs of President John F.
Kennedy and his family (1991.3044).

S. R. Sturtevant: Lallemant type
velocipede, ca. 1866 (1986.0194).

Mrs. Subhi: red felt fez hat and a small
brass coffee maker (1990.0353).

Prof. Gerald Jay Sussman: computer-
driven digital orrery, with 8 parts and
documents, used to compute the
orbit of Pluto for the next 845 mil-
lion years, 1984 (1991.0429).

Government of Sweden, PFA Swedish
Stamps (through Sirkka Lehtinen):
325 stamps, 30 first day covers, 24
maximum cards, and a souvenir
folder of Sweden and 23 stamps of
Australia, Great Britain, the United
Nations, and the U.S. (1990.0424).

Emily B. Syz (through John D. and
Stephen B. Syz): 25 pieces of hard
paste porcelain made in Meissen, Ger-
many in the 18th century (1992.0427).

Louis Szalay: 2 cubic feet of archival
material consisting of 36 advertising
comprehensives and 32 art director's
rough layouts, 1965-67 (1991.3060).

Alejandro Szterenfeld: 3 newsclippings
regarding Duke Ellington's tour of
South America and a photograph of
Duke Ellington ca. 1968 (1990.3219).

Arthur A. Tancrede: 2 pairs of goggles,
2 helmets, a pair of gloves, and a Har-
ley-Davidson jersey, all used by Mr.
Tancrede when motorcycle racing in
the 1920s (1987.07.46).

Lonn W. Taylor: 16 souvenir objects
bearing the image of Our Lady of
Guadalupe, 1989 (1990.0361).

Margaret Cudahy Thomas: Civil War
era presidential platform card of Mc-
Clellan and an admission ticket to
the 1900 Republican National Con-
vention (1991.0744).

Capt. James Waldie Thomson, USN
(Ret.): Red Top phonograph needle
sharpener (1990.0335).

Robert L. Thornton, Jr.: 6 leaflets, a
pamphlet, and a poster, related to the
Persian Gulf War (1992.0054).

Marilee Tillstrom: 4 cards of buttons, a
card of hairpins, hem marker, hair
rinse, and a lipstick, 1930-65
(1990.0144).

Emma Boone Todd (through Richard E.
Lovett): bust of Abraham Lincoln
coin bank given to customers of the
Dixon National Bank of Dixon, Il-
linois, 1930s-50s (1991.0416).

Anne Holloway Torbert in memory of
Mary E. Cassel Holloway: embroidered
and painted silk picture made by
Elizabeth T. Cassel of Marietta, Pen-
nsylvania, in 1815 (1991.0841).

Robert T. Trefethen: Oliver No. 3
typewriter instruction book
(1991.3014).

Triune Masonic Lodge #190 (through
James H. Marrinan): bronze medal
commemorating the centennial of
the lodge (1991.0699).

Eleanor B. Troy: 8 pieces of documenta-
tion related to the IBM 650 com-
puter, ca. 1960 (1992.3028).

Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus,
Directorate of the Department of
Posts (through Aysel N. Erduran): 8
stamps and 7 first day covers of the
Turkish Federated State of Cyprus
(1991.0032).

Joanne C. and Mort Turner: set of 4,040
road maps (1991.3050).

Twentieth Century Fox (through
Robert B. Morin): 22 pieces of
military equipment and uniform
items used on the television program
“M*A*S*H” (1985.0335).

H. R. Udkoff: .3035 cubic foot of ar-
chival material including papers, 6

audiotape cassettes, and a piece of
artwork, all related to Duke El-
lington (1991.3154); 47 photographs
and 10 documents relating to Duke
Ellington, 1960s (1992.3089).

United Media (through Nancy

Nicolelis): book, The Gospel According
to Peanuts (1990.3108).

U.S. Department of Commerce, Bureau

of the Census, Regional Census Cen-
ter (through William F. Adams):
billboard made by students at Pojoa-
que High School, New Mexico,
titled “Answer the Census, Everyone
Counts,” 1990 (1992.0003); National
Institute of Standards and Technol-
ogy (through Thomas Wheatley):
Erica experimental robot arm, 1976,
with servo system, aluminum block,
and rack of equipment (1989.0471);
Radiometric Physics Division
(through Chris Cromer): 31 incandes-
cent lamps, a G.E. volt-ammeter, and
a Photrix Universal photometer,

1900-60s (1992.0342).

U.S. Department of Defense, Department

of the Army, Center of Military His-
tory: LI items comprising a reproduc-
tion 18th-century Spanish military
uniform including a musket
(1985.3038); Commander of Fort
Sheriden: 5 rifles and 3 pistols
(1986.0058); First Corps Command As-
sociation: 2 helmets, 2 canteens with
covers, 2 mess kits, 2 pairs of insignia, a
pair of trousers, and a shirt, all issued
to soldiers in Cuba and captured
during U.S. military operations on the
Island of Grenada in 1984 (1985.0073);
The Institute of Heraldry, Heraldic Ser-
vices and Support Division (through
Gerald T. Luchino): 157 pieces of dis-
tinctive unit insignia, shoulder sleeve
insignia, and badges (1990.0212); U.S.
Army flag with 37 campaign streamers
(1991.3079); (through Gerald T.
Luchino and Thomas B. Proffitt): 57
pieces of distinctive unit and shoulder
sleeve insignia (1991.0144); (through
Thomas B. Proffitt): 12 distinctive unit
insignia, 8 shoulder sleeve insignia, and
a Southwest Asia service medal set
(1992.0027); Department of the Navy,
Naval Air Test Facility, Active Sonar
Development Branch (through Mal-

colm J. Dickinson): 2 sonobuoys of
WW II and the Korean War eras
(1984.0144); International Security Af-
fairs, Near Eastern and South Asian Af-
fairs (through Edward L. Tixier): 42
military small arms seized by the Is-
raeli Defense Force during Operation
Peace in Galilee in 1982 (1990.0512);
(through Maj. Gen. R. V. Secord): 18
military small arms seized by the Is-
raeli Defense Force during Operation
Peace in Galilee in 1982 (1990.0514);
machine gun seized by the Israeli
Defense Force during Operation Peace
in Galilee in 1982 (1990.0516).

U.S. Department of Health and Human

Services, National Institutes of
Health, Surplus Warehouse, Property
Utilization Section: 2 international
centrifuges, a Spencer microtome,
Fisher isotemp oven, Buchler polys-
talcic pump, LKB 2117 multiphor,
and a PHD cell harvester (1991.0230);
Public Health Service, Food and
Drug Administration (through
Suzanne White): Rivixil hair treat-
ment shampoo and a Dalkon Shield
intrauterine device (1989.0162).

U.S. Department of the Interior, Fish

and Wildlife Service (through
Norma Opgrand): imperforate sheet
of 120 1989-90 Migratory Bird Hunt-
ing and Conservation stamps
(1989.0377); sheet of 120 1990-91
Migratory Bird Hunting and Conser-
vation stamps (1990.0416); models of
face and back of the 1991-92
Migratory Bird Hunting and Conser-
vation stamps (1991.0088); sheet of
120 1991-92 Migratory Bird Hunting
and Conservation stamps (1991.0680).

U.S. Department of Justice, Immigra-

tion and Naturalization Service
(through Richard E. Calvert): alien
registration receipt card
(1992.0147).

U.S. Department of the Treasury,

Bureau of Engraving and Printing: 5
framed stamp displays (1991.0177).

U.S. Legislative Branch, Library of

Congress, Order Division, African
and Middle Eastern Acquisitions
Section (through Valerie S.
Mwalilino): 2 Liberian $5 notes,
1989 and 1991 (1992.0097).

189
U.S. Postal Service (through Megaera
Harris): 2 precancel stamping devices
and a box, a 100-pound postal scale
and weight attachment, and a stamp
pad, all previously used at the Mount
Rainier, Maryland, Post Office
(1992.2023); 2 Sea Post Office badges
and 2 Sea Post Office identity card
folders (1992.2025); (through Rita L.
Moroney): rotary lock used for
registered mail salvaged from the
U.S.S. Oglalo which was destroyed at
Pearl Harbor on December 7, 1941
(1991.0067); U.S. Mail street letter-
box, 1952 (1991.0068); General Post
Office of New Haven, Connecticut,
Stamp Distribution Office (through
D. A. D’ Andrea): 13 rubber hand
stamps and 6 dies used to precancel
postage stamps (1990.0300); Inspec-
tion Service (through Charles R.
Clauson): detonator used by the De-
Autremont Brothers during a railway
mail robbery in 1923 (1991.0025);
(through Fred I. Rosenberg): 3 ob-
jects related to mail fraud including
2 forged holographic poems by
Robert Frost and a Wanted poster for
Guiseppe Baldanucci for possession
of stolen mail (1992.2031); Interna-
tional Postal Affairs Department
(through Thomas E. Leavey): 27
stamps and 3 souvenir sheets of South
Africa (1990.0638); International Ser-
vices Branch (through Juan B. Ianni):
1,425 stamps, 12 souvenir sheets, and
4 miniature sheets of the People’s
Republic of China, and 12 stamps of
South Africa (1989.0016); Philatelic
and Retail Services Department
(through Gordon C. Morison): 1,086
stamps, 31 first day covers, 20 postal
cards, 1s souvenir programs, 9
souvenir folders, 9 official stamped
envelopes, and 2 aerogrammes of the
US. (1991.0014); 24 commemorative
panels of the U.S. (1991.0216); Vien-
na, Virginia Post Office (through
Michael S. Furey): 9 postal register
books, 2 hand cancellers, and a hand
stamp, all used in post offices in Vir-
ginia, 1887-1971 (1990.0639).

U.S. Veterans Administration, National
Cemetery System, Office of Memorial

Programs (through Patrick J.

190

Gartland): cross-shaped government
grave marker for James Atkinson who
died September 26, 1918 (1992.31).

Unknown: T-shirt, “Southeastern Con-
ference XIV for Lesbian and Gay
Men Dallas Texas 1989” (1991.02.46).

Jean Upton: 2 pairs of pants, a shirt,
dickey, and a bathrobe worn by Loret-
ta Switt in the television series
“M*A*S*H” (1992.0174).

Jerry Valburn: program from an El-
lington Orchestra concert in Japan
conducted by Mercer Ellington, 1976
(1990.3223).

Valencia County Cultural Program
(through Tibo J. Chavez): flag com-
memorating the 250th anniversary of
the founding of Valencia County,
New Mexico, in 1991 (1991.0834).

William Van der Linden: model of a
Curtiss JN-4H airmail airplane
(1989.3018).

Charles E. Van Gilder: drafting tool
used to lay out pipe curves patented
by Wayne C. Van Gilder in 1911
(1991.0679).

Varian Research Center (through Reza
Majidi-Ahy): set of monolithic micro-
wave integrated circuits (1991.0272).

VH Sign Company (through Jeffrey L.
Zabriskie): replica stanchion from
which to hang a gargoyle Mobiloil
sign (1988.3087).

Victor Comptometer Corporation
(through V. S. Johnston): Mercedes-
Euklid calculating machine (305775).

Robert M. Vogel: 2 tongue depressors, a
portable wall plate, and an advertis-
ing card for Aero sanitary paper cups
(1992.0207).

Caio Vono: 2 books, 2 phonograph
records, 2 decals, a brochure, and an
audiotape cassette related to jazz
music and the Traditional Jazz Band
(1990.3218).

R. Mark Wagner: Folmer Graflex K-20
aerial camera, ca. 1942 (1992.0010).
Mrs. Ann Wallace in memory of Verona

Suchon Ulicne Regula: Czechos-
lovakian black wool shawl with a
blue pattern brought to the U.S. by
Mrs. Regula in 1913 (1990.0266).

Henry H. Ware: porcelain pitcher with
high relief-molded Gypsy motif,
1850-99 (1991.0732).

The Washington Area Printmakers
(through Constance P. Grace and
Lindsay H. Makepeace): 12 prints
used in the 1992 Original Print
Calendar and 3 associated prints
(1991.0783).

C. Malcolm and Joan Pearson Watkins:
u examples of glassware and a por-
celain pitcher, 19th century
(1992.0070).

Wayne State University, College of
Liberal Arts, Computation
Laboratory (through Arvid W. Jacob-
son): 89 components from Vannevar
Bush’s differential analyzer
(1983.3002).

WCI Major Appliance Group (through
Dale A. Miller): Tappan Model RL-1
microwave oven of 1955 with 2 extra
Hitachi magnatrons (1991.0727).

Wedge Innovations (through Paul W.
Spring): 2 Smartlevel digital in-
clinometers (1991.0823).

James B. Weist: 2 cancellers used by
clerks of the Railway and Highway
Post Offices (1991.0767).

Arthur Weithas: 5 mounted proofsheets,
4 transparencies, 3 videoscripts, and 3
mechanicals relating to the Noxell
Corporation's Cover Girl cosmetic ad-
vertisements (1990.3086).

Leroy W. Welle: matchbook, “Strike
‘Em Dead/Remember Pearl Harbor”
(1992.0026).

A. M. Wellens: patent model for a teles-
coping brow for ship gangplanks,
model built in 1948 for patent which
was granted August 27, 1957, to
Alexander M. Wellens (1991.0555).

Ellen D. Wells: 6 cubic feet of cook-
book pamphlets published by
manufacturers of food ingredients
and appliances (1990.3236).

Junior Wells: 2 harmonicas used by Mr.
Wells (1991.0294).

Mary Jane Welsh: 2 tablecloths and a
photograph album (1992.0148).

Mary Jane and Robert W. Welsh:
patchwork quilt (1992.0149); 2
woman's dresses, a nightgown, pair of
shoes, pair of shoe forms, curtain, cake
tin, and a door handle plate (1992.0150).

E. Bud Wertheim: bronze self-portrait
medal used by Mr. Wertheim as a
business card (1992.0336).
Wesleyan University, Department of
Physics, (through Prof. Ralph Baier-
lein): 3 galvanometers, an electros-
tatic machine, electromagnetic
machine, electroscope, induction
coil, battery, dynamo, oscillograph,
and an early x-ray tube (1989.0029).

West Virginia University, College of
Arts and Sciences, Department of
Biology (through Ramsey H. Frist):
Spino Model E untracentrifuge with
parts and manuals, ca. 1948, and a
Spino Model H electrophoresis-dif-
fusion instrument with manual, 1958
(1991-0797).

Helen M. Wheeler: 823 models repre-
senting solid geometric shapes built
by Prof. A. Harry Wheeler (304723).

Marion Whiting (through Moses Wil-
liams): 278 war medals and decora-
tions from around the world
(1990.0265).

Wilbraham and Monson Academy
(through Francis M. Casey): 5-star
parade flag used by General of the
Army Dwight D. Eisenhower
(1987.044)5).

Patricia Willard: November 1988 issue
of LA. Style magazine containing an
article about Duke Ellington by Ms.
Willard (1990.3190).

J. Henry Wills: copy of the amateur
newspaper The Stylus printed in
Philadelphia in March 1895
(1992.0215).

Sule Greg C. Wilson: 6 sports posters, a
portfolio, and a rain check (1992.0165).

Gretchen Leah Wirt: u pieces of infant's
clothing and 4 pieces of woman's
maternity clothing, 1989-91 (1992.0183).

Prof. Edward D. Wolf: shadow box il-
lustrating the biolistic gene transfer
process (1992.0023).

James E. Wolford: automatically
programmed television/radio receiver
(1991.0389).

Women’s International Bowling Con-
gress (through Karen L. Sytsino):
75th anniversary history book and
bowling ball (1992.0167).

Wood & Brooks Company in memory
of Mr. and Mrs. Charles W. Wood,
Jr. (through Elizabeth Wood Crane):
1 cubic foot of archival material relat-
ing to piano-making and ivory-work-

ing firms and miscellaneous trade
literature (1992.3163).

Cornelius C. Wood: man’s Harris tweed
wool coat, 1938-39 (1991.0310).

Gerald A. Wright: 7 buttons, 5 posters,
a VisiCorp sales kit, “Verbatim”
matchbook, “Microchess” computer
game and manual, and a “Processor
Technology” T-shirt (1990.0407).

Helena E. Wright: 126 Roman Catholic
prayer cards, medals, prayer books,
devotional materials, and amulets
(1990.0181); 2 religious lithographic
prints (1991.0058); chromolithograph
titled Sunset by L. Prang, 1868-69
(1992.0279).

Helena Gray Wright: 2 pairs of
woman's sanitary protectors and an
original box (1991.0074).

WurlTech Industries, Inc. (through Sid-
ney C. Weiss): 16 cubic feet of ar-
chival records relating to the
American piano manufacturing firm
of Chickering & Sons, 1823-1985
(1991.3144).

Yale University, Department of
Astronomy (through Dorrit Hoffleit
and Augustus Oemler, Jr.): 9-sheet
set of the photographic map of the
normal solar spectrum made by Prof.
H. A. Rowland in 1880 and a set of 13
photographs of astronomers, 1897-
1946 (1991.0810).

Jane Griffin Yeingst and William H.
Yeingst: Sperry-Remington lady's
electric shaver with accessories
(1991.0275); pair of roller skates with
metal case and a pair of socks
(1991.0678); 2 fly swatters, a
shoehorn, and a pair of shrimp pliers
(1992.0209); plastic fly swatter
(1992.3114).

William H. Yeingst: Willkie campaign
card (1991.0326); 4 school yearbooks
(1992.0186).

Donald W. Zimmerman: can of U.S.
Army C-B unit field rations
(1992.0220).

National Museum of the
American Indian

Donors of Financial Support
$100, 000 or more

Mr. and Mrs. James A. Block
Knight Foundation
Mr. David Rockefeller

$50,000 or more

Anonymous

Aspen/Snowmass Celebration for the
American Indian

The Nature Company

Time Warner Inc.

$ 10, 000 or more

Allen & Company Incorporated

Anonymous

Anonymous

Consolidated Edison Company of New
York, Inc.

Fried, Frank, Harris, Shriver and Jacob-
son Fund, Inc.

Home Box Office

International Creative Management, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Robert E. Linton

McCasland Foundation

The Ovitz Family Foundation

Red Sage LP

$5,000 or more

Adolph Coors Company

Alexander Galleries

Ms. Ann Simmons Alspaugh

Botwinick-Wolfensohn Foundation

Estate of Harry F Duncan

Richard and Susan Ernst Foundation,
Inc.

The Horn Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Victor Kaufman

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Krissel

Morning Star Gallery, Ltd.

Irvin Stern Foundation

Ellen Napiura Taubman, Ltd.

Norman-Rita Tishman Fund, Inc.

I9I
$1, 000 or more

Ald Too Inc.

Anonymous

Mr. and Mrs. Charles D. Aberle

Mr. Christopher Addison

Alaska Federation of Natives

Mr. and Mrs. Douglas Anderson

Ballen & Company

Mrs. Madeleine Bennett

Benzav Trading Company

Mr. and Mrs. Richard Binder

Mr. M.H. Blakemore

Board of Trade — City of Chicago

Ms. Margaret L. Bourgerie

Mr. Samuel E. Braden

Ms. Marcy L. Burns

Mrs. Kyle Adams Carney

Cheyenne Cultural Center

Ms. Kay L. Clausen

Carl and Rene Cohen Foundation

Mr. Bertram J. Cohn

Commodity Exchange, Inc.

The Honorable Barber B. Conable, Jr.
and Mrs. Conable

Mr. Frederick Danziger

Mr. Richard Danziger

Mr. Steve Delonga

Valerie Charles Diker Fund

Dresser Industries, Inc.

Mr. James Economos

Dennis Eros American Arts

Estee Lauder Companies

Ms. Cynthia A. Evancho

Ms. Darlene M. Evancho

Mr. Steven L. Feinberg

Fine Arts of Ancient Lands, Inc.

Mr. Michael R. French

Mr. Robert V. Gallegos

Gallery 10, Inc.

General Motors Corporation

Mr. Richard Gilbert

Mr. and Mrs. Robert D. Haas

Mr. Samuel J. Heyman

Mr. Alan J. Hirschfield

Hotel Santa Fe

Mr. Roy M. Huhndorff

Ms. Betty A. Jackson

Mr. Dick Jemison

Johnson & Johnson

Mr. Francis A. Keating

Ms. Dina K. Krissel

Mr. James D. Krissel

Mr. and Mrs. Robert E. Krueger

Ms. Diana T. MacArthur

192

Mrs. K. Mastick

Mr. Joseph J. Mathy

The Meek Foundation

Mr. R. K. Merrill, Jr.

Mrs. Marie B. Miller

NYNEX Corporation

Native American Art Gallery

New York Mercantile Exchange

Mr. and Mrs. Carroll O'Connor

Mr. Morris W. Offit

Mr. Michael Olding

Pace Gallery New York, Inc.

Mrs. Kathleen O. Petitt

Mr. Roy Pfautch

Poindexter Enterprises, Inc.

Proctor & Gamble Company

Mr. and Mrs. John V. Rainbolt

Rastar Productions

Ms. Patricia Redmond

Mr. and Mrs. Steven C. Rockefeller

Santa Fe Center Enterprises

Santa Fe Pacific Minerals Corporation

Scali, McCabe, Sloves, Inc.

Ms. Judith Schalit

Ms. Margaret Schink

Southwest Studio Connection

Mr. Jerry I. Speyer

Stoever Glass & Company

Tambaran Gallery

Mr. and Mrs. Jeffrey Tarr

Mr. John Thompson

Mrs. Martha W. Tolman

Jean and Raymond Troubh Foundation

Mr. Robert E. Turner and Ms. Jane
Fonda

Waddell Trading Company

Mr. W. Richard West, Jr.

W. & M. Zeckendorf Foundation, Inc.

$500 or more

Mr. Terry M. Adlhock

American Society of Composers,
Authors, and Publishers

Mr. Charles E. Anthony

Mr. Earl Armbrust

Ms. Katrina Barnes

Mrs. Roxanne Bruns

Mr. Sang Ho Chung

Mr. Thomas A. Davis

The Honorable and Mrs. Dennis
DeConcini

M. Downs

The Doyon Foundation

Falconwood Foundation, Inc.

Mr. Bruce Geismar

The German Marshall Foundation of
the United States

Dr. Rayna Green

Mr. and Mrs. Ted Groom

Mrs. William H. Hazlect

Mr. Paul A. Heist

Mrs. V. Waller Hill

Hobbs, Straus, Dean & Wilder

Hopkins & Sutter

Mr. and Mrs. Phillip S. Hughes

Mr. and Mrs. Donald E. Jansen

Arlyn H. Johnson

Mr. Ardon B. Judd

Ms. Katharine Kosmak

Lord Day & Lord, Barrett Smith

Mrs. Barbara A. McLeod

Ms. Rosallen S. McMath

Mrs. Esther M. Mosak

Nestle Enterprises, Inc.

Mr. P. B. Newman

Occidental International Corporation

Ms. Antoinette Peskoff

Polo Ralph Lauren Corporation

Mrs. Clifford Porter

Dr. Robert L. Ranley

R. Rebling

Dr. Helen G. Robinson

Rosenthal Automotive Inc.

Ms. Greta Schuessler

Sealaska Corporation

Shell Oil Company

Ms. Eileen C. Shoemaker

Mr. Phillip M. Smith

Mr. and Mrs. E. E. Stowell

Sydalwg Snikpoh Foundation

Texaco Services, Inc.

Mr. Alexander Thompson

Mrs. Ruth L. Webb

$250 or more

Mr. William Alexander
Amerind Gallery

Ms. Janine F. Barre

Mr. and Mrs. Kenneth Berger
Mr. Max Berger

Bill's Trading Post

Mr. and Mrs. Bill Bobb

Mr. and Mrs. Robert E. Bonette
J. Boyle

Mr. Neil Braun

Miss Helene Brown

Mr. Lawrence D. Brown

Mrs. William L. Brown
Canyon Records and Indian Arts

Ms. Peggy Casey

Mr. and Mrs. John W. Chancellor

Mr. Jonathan A. Chandross

Mr. and Mrs. Brian E. Cobb

Ms. Karyn Vee Cody

Dr. Robert B. Craven

Mr. Thomas Crichton

Ms. Lisa Crotty

C. D. Culbertson

R. D. Cunningham

Ms. Sylvia J. Darrow

De Grazia Art and Cultural Foundation

Mr. C. Y. Deknatel

Mr. and Mrs. David Dibner

Mr. Victor DiStefano

Doyan Limited

Mrs. Frank Elliott

E] Taller On the Plaza Gallery

Mr. and Mrs. Douglas E. Evelyn

Ms. Katherine T. Farrar

Feathers Inc.

Mrs. Sue Felsher

Ms. Barbara Forst

Mr. Alvin Foster

J. E. Fowler

Franklin Research & Development
Corporation

Mr. Peter Georgescu

Mr. Jim Gerth

Rev. D. Given

Ms. Pamela R. Glawe

Glenn Green Galleries

Ms. Ruth Greenberg

Mrs. Julia R. Greenway

Ms. Elizabeth Grimm

Mr. Norman G. Hansen

Mr. David Hayes

Mrs. Livi Henderson

Mr. and Mrs. Ronald A. Henry

Ms. Edna J. Hirst

Ms. Deborah Howell

Ms. Suzanne Humpstone

Dr. Lois T. Hunt

Mrs. Margaret S. Hunter

Hurst Gallery

Mr. Robert D. Hynes, Jr. and Ms. Gail
Raiman

Mr. Charles Inge

Mr. Virgil Josey

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Joyce

Mr. Henry Katz

Mr. Arthur L. Kay

Dr. Patrick A. Kelly

Mrs. Beate Kendall

Ms. N. R. Klusmeyer
Ms. Iris B. Krasnow
Ms. Elizabeth J. Kuen
Mrs. Mary G. Lang
Dr. Carol Lujan
Mr. and Mrs. Robert MacCrate
Mr. Byron I. Mallott
N. B. Mead
Mesas Edge
Mr. H. Collin Messer
Mr. Schuyler M. Meyer, Jr.
Ms. Ann F. Miller
Mrs. Karen Nelson
Mrs. Kathleen S. Nester
Pacific Western Traders
Ms. Louise Pasaka
Ms. Jeanne S. Paulk
Peacework Gallery
H.R. Pefia
Ms. Marjie B. Pickens
Ms. Adaline H. Rand
Red Cord Indian Arts
C. M. Reyer
Mr. Thomas C. Roberts
Mrs. W. Jean Rohrer
Mr. and Mrs. David Rosenberg
Ms. Marcia Rothenberg
Ms. Julie Sacksteder
Mr. David Saity
Mr. and Mrs. Peter Sarles
Mr. and Mrs. Robert D. Scallan
Ms. Jill E. Schaefer
T. Schaffner
Mr. S. Shedeck
Mr. David Bradford Schofield
School 19 Fund
Mr. and Mrs. Whitney
North Seymour, Jr.
The Silver Man, Inc.
Ms. Alice V. Smith
Ms. Rika A. Spangler
Standing Bear Enterprises
Mr. and Mrs. Robert C. Stempel
Mr. J. Richard Taft
J. Richard Taft Organization
Ms. Sarah B. Tanguy
Ms. Phyllis L. Thompson
Via Gambaro Studio, Inc.
Dr. and Mrs. C. D. Westerman
Mr. and Mrs. Vernon B. Willis
Ms. Laura G. Winston
A. A. Wright
Dr. Edward J. Young

Donors to the Collection

Ms. Charlotte Crosby. Seven prints of
dancers by Kiowa artists, one
photograph of Geronimo from 1896,
and two newspaper articles concern-
ing Kiowa artists and Geronimo.

Mr. Ray Dewey. One Santa Fe
Pendleton blanket and one
“Chihuahua Trail” style Pendleton
blanket, both designed by Hopi
artist Ramona Sakiestewa.

Ms. Maxine H. Eberi. One Plains pipe
dating from the 1880s.

Mr. Gregory M. Gaudio. One carved
wood mask and one carved wooden
bird figure, Northwest Coast
Ethnology.

Mr. Robert Houlihan. Two bronze
sculptures by a Hopi artist.

Ms. Elizabeth Buell Kennedy. One
copper arrowhead, five flaked stone
point fragments, two flaked stone
arrow points, three chipped stone
fragments, and one cut stone point
from Central Wyoming.

Dr. Emile Libresco. One Salish basket
and cover.

Ms. Julia Parker. One woven vegetal
fiber bag and one bone tool.

Ms. Gloria Ross. One pair of woven half
leggings, Navajo.

Ms. Shelly Ross. “Portrait of Russell
Means,” Andy Warhol, acrylic on can-
vas, 1977.

Rev. Immanuel Trujillo. One tile
mural, one mortar jar and lid, two
sacrament jars with lids, one peyote
jar, (wo paintings, one ceramic jar,
three ceramic frog pipes, two Peyote
jugs, and two peyote urns with
covers.

Ms. Rachel Wasserman. One Hopi ring.

Donors of In-Kind Support

American Airlines. Two round-trip tick-
ets to Mexico for raffle at Washington
Artworks.

American Bison Association/The Prime
Choice. Food for Washington
Artworks.

Ms. Ellen Armstrong. Three paintings
for Washington Artworks.

Mr. Don Baker. Three sculptures for
Washington Artworks.

193
Mr. Jerome Bushyhead. Two signed
prints for Washington Artworks.

Senator Ben Nighthorse Campbell. One
sterling silver belt buckle with
precolumbian design and a painting
for Washington Artworks.

Capital Art and Framing. Twenty-five
donated frames and eleven frames
and twenty-six matts at cost for
Washington Artworks.

Ms. Millie Coover. Three paintings for
Washington Artworks.

Mr. Mike Daniel. One piece of stoneware
pottery for Washington Artworks.

The Doc Dikeman Orchestras. Enter-
tainment for Washington Artworks.

Ms. Mavis Doering. One basket for
Washington Artworks.

Ms. Adee Dodge. One painting for
Washington Artworks.

Elkwoman. One sculpture for
Washington Artworks.

Representative Glenn English and Mrs.
English. Four paintings for
Washington Artworks.

Ms. Paulette Estes. One painting for
Washington Artworks.

Mr. Dennis Fox. A Virginia soapstone
sculpture for Washington Artworks.

Franzia Brothers. Beverages for
Washington Artworks.

Mr. Kenneth Freeman. Three signed
prints for Washington Artworks.

Ms. Retha Walden Gambaro. One sculp-
ture for Washington Artworks.

Mr. Steven A. Gambaro. One sepia
photograph for Washington
Artworks.

Mr. Enoch Kelly Haney. Two ceramic
plates for Washington Artworks.

Harris. One silver bracelet with turquoise
stone for Washington Artworks.

Michael Horse. One silver necklace for
Washington Artworks.

Representative Carroll Hubbard and
Mrs. Hubbard. Three paintings for
Washington Artworks.

Mrs. Pat Hutchens. Nine paintings for
Washington Artworks.

Mr. Michael Izzo. One painting for
Washington Artworks.

Ms. Kata Koller. One painting for
Washington Artworks.

Ms. Judith Pond Kudlow. Two paint-
ings for Washington Artworks.

194

Ms. Jean LaMarr. One seriograph for
Washington Artworks.

Mr. Gene Locklear. One painting for
Washington Artworks.

Representative Carlos Moorhead and
Mrs. Moorhead. Three paintings for
Washington Artworks.

Mr. Fred Olds. Two paintings for
Washington Artworks.

Mr. Dylan Pablano. One painting for
Washington Artworks.

Mr. Fernando Padilla, Jr. One painting
for Washington Artworks.

Mr. Colin D. Petrie. One drawing for
Washington Artworks.

Ms. Jeanne Walker Rorex. One paint-
ing for Washington Artworks.

Mr. Marcus G. Scott. One painting for
Washington Artworks.

Mr. Bert Seabourn. One watercolor for
Washington Artworks.
Sotheby's. An auctioneer and consulting
services for Washington Artworks.
Ms. Kathryn Stewart. One painting for
Washington Artworks.

Ms. Susan Stewart. One painting for
Washington Artworks.

Ms. Dorothy Sullivan. One painting for
Washington Artworks.

Donna Summer. One painting for
Washington Artworks.

Mr. Robert Lee Taylor. One painting for
Washington Artworks.

Truffles II. Food for the preview recep-
tion for Washington Artworks.
Mr. Charles Walkingstick. One piece of
pottery for Washington Artworks.
Ward Company, Inc. Three art handlers
for the auction for Washington
Artworks.

Weadon Printing. Printing of invitations
at cost for Washington Artworks.

Ms. Ellie Weakley. One watercolor for
Washington Artworks.

National Portrait Gallery

Donors of Financial Support

$50,000 or more

The Annenberg Foundation

£10, 000 or more

The Japan Foundation

Kokusai Denshin Denwa Co., Ltd. (KDD)
Matsushita Electric Industrial Co., Ltd.
OMRON Corporation

Pioneer Electric Corporation

Seiko Instruments Inc.

Sony Corporation

Suntory Ltd.

$5,000 or more

The Marpat Foundation, Inc.

$1,000 or more

Art Resource

Jack Banning

The Barra Foundation, Inc.

The Foundation for the National
Capital Region

Mr. Leslie H. Goldberg

Jack Haas

The Clarence and Jack Himmel
Foundation

Jack Rennert

The Ruth and Frank Stanton Fund

$500 or more

Louis Bixenman

Mr. Sidney Hart

Ms. Mary Ellen Meehan

Mr. and Mrs. David S. Touff
Washington Inc.

$250 or more

Richard Morris Dunlap
Mr. and Mrs. Barry Pierce

Donors to the Collection—
Paintings and Sculpture

Paul E. Biegel. Jacob L. Devers, 1945, oil
on canvas, by Jes Wilhelm Schlaikjer
(NPG.91.98).

Paul E. Biegel. Dwight D. Eisenhower,
1951, oil on canvas, by Jes Wilhelm
Schlaikjer (NPG.91.100).

Paul E. Biegel. Major General Anthony C.
McAuliffe, c.1946, oil on canvas, by Jes
Wilhelm Schlaikjer (NPG.91.97).
Paul E. Biegel. Edward Stettinius, un-
known, oil on canvas, by Jes Wil-
helm Schlaikjer (NPG.91.99).

Mary Rose Shea Burke and children. Car-
dinal James Gibbons, 1905, oil on canvas,
by Theobald Chartran (NPG.91.196).

David E. Dykaar. Eugene Debs, 1922,
marble bust, by Moses W. Dykaar.
(NPG.92.14).

Theodore Hampson. Walter Camp, late
1960s, oil on canvas, by Albert W.
Hampson (NPG.91.15).

Mrs. Joseph Hirshhorn. Joseph
Hirshhorn, after 1965, oil on canvas,
by Raphael Soyer. (NPG.91.198).

Everett Raymond Kinstler. Joseph Ball,
1958, oil on canvas, by Everett
Raymond Kinstler (S/NPG. 92.82).

Everett Raymond Kinstler. James Cag-
ney, 1980, oil on canvas, by Everett
Raymond Kinstler (T/NPG.92.85).

Everett Raymond Kinstler. Alexander
Calder, 1972, oil on canvas, by
Everett Raymond Kinstler
(NPG.92.87).

Everett Raymond Kinstler. John Connal-
/y, 1975, oil on canvas, by Everett
Raymond Kinstler (S/NPG.92.83).

Everett Raymond Kinstler. James Flagg,
unknown, oil on canvas, by Everett
Raymond Kinstler (NPG.92.86).

Everett Raymond Kinstler. Gregory
Peck, 1991, oil on canvas, by Everett
Raymond Kinstler (T/NPG.91.111).

Everett Raymond Kinstler. Alan
Shephard, 1965, oil on canvas, by
Everett Raymond Kinstler
(T/NPG.92.84).

Dora F. Lee. Charles Lang Freer, 1971,
bronze, by Dora F. Lee (NPG.92.2).

Mimi Muray and Chris Muray.
Nikolas Muray, unknown, oil on
canvas, by Marion Greenwood
(NPG.91.197).

Essie Pinsker. Leopold Stokowski, 1963,
bronze bust, by Essie Pinsker
(NPG.91.124).

Dragan Radenovic. Willard Quine, 1989,
bronze bust, by Dragan Radenovic
(T/NPG.91.91).

John L. Sanders and Ann B. Sanders in
honor of William McWhorter
Cochrane. Edward Everett, 1859,
plaster bas relief, by Thomas Ball
(NPG.972.15).

Sayre Sheldon. Leontyne Price, 1963, oil
on canvas, by Bradley S. Phillips
(T/NPG.91.96).

The Springate Corporation. Leonard
Bernstein, 1990, oil on canvas, by
René Bouché (NPG.92.3).

Jeffrey R. Tishman. Melville Stone, 1917,
oil on canvas, by Ossip de Perelma
(NPG.972.13).

Dorothy Porter Wesley. Dorothy Porter,
1952, oil on canvas, by James Porter
(T/NPG.92.32).

Dorothy Porter Wesley. James Porter, un-
known, oil on canvas, by James
Porter (NPG.92.31).

Donative Sales

Museum Purchase and Gift of Mrs.
Lucia Howe Snow. Solomon White
Roberts, 1835, oil on canvas, by
Manuel de Franca (NPG.92.101).

Museum Purchase and Gift of The
Governor's Mansion Foundation,
Inc., Maryland. Anne Catherine Hoof
Green, 1769, oil on canvas, by Charles
Willson Peale (NPG.91.152).

Donors to the Collection—
Photographs

The Clayton Corporation, Pittsburgh,
Pennsylvania. Henry Clay Frick and
Helen Clay Frick, 1910, photograph,
toned gelatin silver print, by Henry
Havelock Pierce (NPG.92.30); Helen
Clay Frick, 1910, photograph, toned
gelain silver print, by Henry
Havelock Pierce (S/NPG.92.50).

Jonathan Heller. Ernest H. Gruening,
1950, photograph, gelatin silver
print, by Thomas Dowell McAvoy
(NPG.91.211).

Lance Hidy. Arnold Newman, 1992,
photograph, monochrome thermal
dye sublimation print, by Lance
Hidy (S/NPG.92.113); Arnold New-
man, 1992, monochrome thermal dye
sublimation print, by Lance Hidy
(S/NPG.92.114); Arnold Newman,
1992, photograph, gelatin silver
print, by Lance Hidy (S/NPG.92.112).

Holicon Corp. Ronald Reagan, 1991,
hologram, by Hans J. Bjelkhagen,

Michel Marhic, John Landry, Fred
Unterseher (NPG.92.111).

Michael Katakis. Maya Ying Lin, 1988,
photograph, gelatin silver print, by
Michael Katakis (S/NPG.91.110).

Mimi and Nicholas Muray. Miguel Covar-
rubias, undated, photograph, gelatin sil-
ver print, by Nickolas Muray
(S/NPG.91.213); Nickolas Muray, un-
dated, photograph, gelatin silver print,
Self-portrait (NPG.91.206); Nickolas
Muray, 1940, photograph, dye transfer
print, by Edward Steichen
(NPG.91.205); Nickolas Muray, 1940,
photograph, gelatin silver print, by Ed-
ward Steichen (S/NPG.91.212).

Arnold Newman. Berenice Abbott, 1986,
photograph, gelatin silver print, by
Arnold Newman (T/NPG.91.89.74);
Alumni, Art Students League, 1950,
photograph, gelatin silver print, by
Arnold Newman (NPG.91.89.56);
Isaac Asimov, 1990, photograph,
gelatin silver print, by Arnold New-
man (T/NPG.91.89.87); Milton Avery,
1961, photograph, gelatin silver
print, by Arnold Newman
(NPG.91.89.53); Marc Blitzstein, 1945,
photograph, gelatin silver print, by
Arnold Newman (NPG.91.89.83);
Ron Carter, 1977, photograph, gelatin
silver print, by Arnold Newman
(T/NPG.91.89.96); Marlene Dietrich,
1948, photograph, gelatin silver
print, by Arnold Newman
(T/NPG.91.89.67); Fellows of the In-
stitute for Advanced Study, Princeton,
New Jersey, 1988, photograph, gelatin
silver print, by Arnold Newman
(T/NPG.91.89.68); Theodore Geisel
(Dr. Seuss), 1985, collage, by Arnold
Newman (T/NPG.91.89.63); Walter F.
George, 1951, photograph, gelatin sil-
ver print, by Arnold Newman
(NPG.91.89.92); Allen Ginsberg,
photograph, gelatin silver print, by
Arnold Newman (T/NPG.91.89.86);
Philip Glass, 1981, photograph,
gelatin silver print, by Arnold New-
man (T/NPG.91.89.84); Kurt Godel,
1956, photograph, gelatin silver
print, by Arnold Newman
(NPG.91.89.69); Chaim Gross, 1942,
photograph, gelatin silver print, by
Arnold Newman (T/NPG.91.89.79);

195
Hans Hofmann, 1952, photograph,
gelatin silver print, by Arnold New-
man (NPG.91.89.75); James Jones,
1961, photograph, gelatin silver
print, by Arnold Newman
(NPG.91.89.81); Danny Kaye, 1950,
photograph, gelatin silver print, by
Arnold Newman (T/NPG.91.89.66);
Frederick Kiesler, 1962, photograph,
gelatin silver print, by Arnold New-
man (NPG.91.89.59); A/fred Kinsey,
1948, photograph, gelatin silver
print, by Arnold Newman
(NPG.91.89.97); Jacob Lawrence, 1959,
photograph, gelatin silver print, by
Arnold Newman (T/NPG.91.89.73);
Jack Levine, 1942, photograph, gelatin
silver print, by Arnold Newman
(T/NPG.91.89.93); Norman Mailer,
1964, photograph, gelatin silver
print, by Arnold Newman
(T/NPG.91.89.82); Man Ray, 1948,
cutout, by Arnold Newman
(NPG.91.89.58); John Marin, 1946,
photograph, gelatin silver print, by
Arnold Newman (NPG.91.89.98);
Marisol, 1985, photograph, gelatin sil-
ver print, by Arnold Newman
(T/NPG.91.89.72); Henry Miller,
1976, collage, by Arnold Newman
(NPG.91.89.60); Piet Mondrian, 1942,
photograph, gelatin silver print, by
Arnold Newman (S/NPG.91.89.54);
Zero Mastel, 1963, photograph, gelatin
silver print, by Arnold Newman
(NPG.91.89.71); Lewis Mumford, 1959,
photograph, gelatin silver print, by
Arnold Newman (T/NPG.91.89.70);
Louise Nevelson, 1972, collage, by Ar-
nold Newman (T/NPG.91.89.55) Ar-
nold Newman, 1987, photograph,
gelatin silver print, Self-portrait
(T/NPG.91.89.101); Barnett Newman,
1970, photograph, gelatin silver
print, by Arnold Newman
(NPG.91.89.94); Isamu Noguchi, 1947,
photograph, gelatin silver print, by
Arnold Newman (T/NPG.91.89.90);
Georgia O'Keeffe, 1968, photograph,
gelatin silver print, by Arnold New-
man (T/NPG.91.89.51); Claes Olden-
burg, 1967, photograph, gelatin silver
print, by Arnold Newman
(T/NPG.91.89.85); I. M. Pei, 1967,
photograph, gelatin silver print, by

196

Arnold Newman (T/NPG.91.89.57);
Larry Rivers, 1975, photograph,
gelatin silver print, by Arnold New-
man (T/NPG.91.89.62); Helena
Rubenstein, 1948, photograph, gelatin
silver print, by Arnold Newman
(NPG.91.89.100); Jonas Salk, 1975,
photograph, gelatin silver print, by
Arnold Newman (T/NPG.91.89.78);
George Segal, 1985, photograph,
gelatin silver print, by Arnold New-
man (T/NPG.91.89.76); W. Eugene
Smith, 1977, photograph, gelatin sil-
ver print, by Arnold Newman
(NPG.91.89.95); Willie “the Lion”
Smith, 1960, photograph, gelatin sil-
ver print, by Arnold Newman
(NPG.91.89.77); Alfred Stieglitz and
Georgia O'Keeffe, 1944, photograph,
gelatin silver print, by Arnold New-
man (T/NPG.91.89.64); Paul Strand,
1966, photograph, gelatin silver
print, by Arnold Newman
(NPG.91.89.99); Igor Stravinsky, 1946,
photograph, gelatin silver print, by
Arnold Newman (NPG.91.89.52); Ed-
ward Teller, 1961, photograph, gelatin
silver print, by Arnold Newman
(T/NPG.91.89.65); Twyla Tharp,
1987, photograph, gelatin silver
print, by Arnold Newman
(T/NPG.91.89.89); Jimmy Van Heusen
and Sammy Cahn, 1963, photograph,
gelatin silver print, by Arnold New-
man (T/NPG.91.89.88); Andy Warhol,
1973, collage, by Arnold Newman
(T/NPG.91.89.61); Joseph Welch, 1957,
photograph, gelatin silver print, by
Arnold Newman (NPG.91.89.80); E/i
Wiesel, 1981, photograph, gelatin sil-
ver print, by Arnold Newman
(T/NPG.91.89.91).

John O'Brien. Anti-Slavery Constitution-

al Amendment Picture, 1865,
photograph, albumen silver print,
by Powell and Company
(NPG.91.207); Jefferson Davis, 1870,
photograph, albumen silver print,
by E.M. Howell (NPG.91.208); Mat-
thew C. Perry, circa 1850, photograph,
salt print, by Unidentified
(NPG.91.219); Theodore Roosevelt,
circa 1905, photograph, gelatin silver
print, by Underwood and Under-
wood (S/NPG.91.214).

Mr. and Mrs. Roy Schatt. James Dean,
1954, photograph, gelatin silver print,
by Roy Schatt (NPG.91.209); James
Dean, 1954, photograph, gelatin silver
print, by Roy Schatt (S/NPG.91.215).

Donors to the Collection—
Prints and Drawings

Valentine Cesare. Eighteen drawings by
Oscar Cesare: Roald Amundsen, 1923,
pencil and Chinese white drawing
(S/NPG.92.102); Leopold Auer, un-
dated, pencil and Chinese white
drawing (NPG.92.103); Charles Gates
Dawes, undated, India ink and
Chinese white drawing (NPG.92.92);
Charles Gates Dawes, undated, India
ink and Chinese white drawing
(NPG.92.93); Minnie Madern Fiske
and John Cope, c. 1916, India ink and
lithographic crayon drawing
(NPG.92.90); Lynn Fontanne and
Helen Westley in “Strange Interlude,” c.
1928, India ink and wash with
Chinese white drawing
(NPG.92.100); Victor Herbert and
Frank Tinney, undated, India ink,
lithographic pencil and Chinese
white drawing (S/NPG.92.89); Harry
Sinclair Lewis, 1935, pencil and
Chinese white drawing (NPG.92.99);
Harry Sinclair Lewis, 1931, India ink,
wash and Chinese white drawing
(NPG.92.98); Eugene Gladstone O’-
Neill, undated, pencil and Chinese
white drawing (NPG.92.105);
Theodore Roosevelt, undated, India ink
and pencil drawing (NPG.92.95);
Theodore Roosevelt, undated, India ink
and Chinese white drawing
(NPG.92.96); The Supreme Court, 1928,
ink wash and Chinese white drawing
(S/NPG.92.88); Francis Everett Towns-
end, undated, pencil drawing
(NPG.92.104); Woodrow Wilson, un-
dated, India ink and Chinese white
drawing (NPG.92.91); Woadrow Wilson,
undated, India ink and pencil drawing
(NPG.92.97); A Personal Appointment?
(Woodrow Wilson and Louis Brandeis, c.
1916, India ink and Chinese white
drawing (NPG.92.94); Orville Wright,
1938, pencil and Chinese white drawing
(NPG.92.106).
Virginia Dehn. Adolf Deda, undated,
ink and colored pencil drawing, by
Boardman Robinson (NPG.92.007).

Jonathon Heller. Ernest Gruening, 1958,
half-tone poster, by Unidentified
(NPG.91.201). Woodrow Wilson, 1918,
wood engraving, by Timothy Cole
(NPG.91.202).

Fred W. Hicks. William Henry Har-
rison, 1841, color lithograph, by
Nathaniel Currier (NPG.92.008).
Marquis de Lafayette, undated, color
lithograph, by Nathaniel Currier
(NPG.92.009). Presidents of the
United States, 1844, color lithograph,
by Nathaniel Currier (NPG.g92.010).
Horace Greeley, 1872, lithograph, by
Currier & Ives (NPG.92.111).

Olga Hirshhorn. Joseph Hirshhorn, 1979,
pastel, by Rick Olson (NPG.91.200).

Bruce Kellner. Chauve-Souris Program
containing caricatures by Ralph Bar-
ton, c.1922-1928 (NPG.92.012).

Everett Raymond Kinstler. Six drawing
of Gregory Peck, 1990, pencil draw-
ings, by Everett Raymond Kinstler
(T/NPG.91.136, T/NPG.91.137,
T/NPG.91.138, T/NPG.91.139,
T/NPG.91.140, T/NPG.91.141). Six-
teen graphic pieces by Everett
Raymond Kinstler: James Cagney,
1980, watercolor (T/NPG.92.034);

James Cagney, 1980, lithograph
(T/NPG.92.035); Howard Chandler
Christy, 1950, charcoal drawing
(NPG.92.036); Jo Davidson and
Charles Dana Gibson, 1975, pencil
drawing (NPG.92.037); A/fred Drake,
1978, charcoal drawing
(T/NPG.92.038); James Montgomery
Flagg, 1953, charcoal drawing
(NPG.92.039); James Montgomery
Flagg, undated, charcoal drawing
(NPG.92.040); Malvina Hoffman, 1958,
charcoal drawing (NPG.92.041); Ma/-
vina Hoffman, 1958, charcoal drawing
(NPG.92.042); John C. Johansen, c. 1950-
1959, pencil and charcoal drawing
(S/NPG.92.043); Robert E. Jones, 1952,
charcoal drawing (NPG.92.044); Pasl
Maaship, 1960, charcoal and wash draw-
ing (NPG.92.045); 5. J. Perelman, 1971,
pastel drawing (NPG.92.046); Norman
Rockuell, 1965, pencil drawing
(NPG.92.047); Theodore H. White,

1979, sepia wash and pencil drawing
(NPG.92.048); Tennesse Williams, 1975,
lithograph (NPG.92.049).

Robert McNeil. 346 silhouettes and
original binding, 1839-1844, cut
black paper on lithograph and wash
backings, by Auguste Edouart
(NPG.91.126).

Mimi and Nickolas C. Muray. Judith
Anderson, c. 1947, ink and watercolor
drawing, by Alfred Frueh
(T/NPG.91.130). Nickolas Muray, 1948,
ink and pencil drawing, by Miguel
Covarrubias (NPG.91.131). Nickolas
Mauray, c. 1927, ink, wash, gouache and
pencil drawing, by Miguel Covarrubias
(NPG.91.132). Nickolas Muray, 1924,
charcoal drawing, by William A.
Pogany (NPG.91.133). Nickolas Muray,
c. 1930, multi-media drawing, by
Ralph Barton (NPG.91.134). William
O'Dwyer, c. 1952, gouache drawing, by
Miguel Covarrubias (T/NPG.91.142).
Miguel Covarrbias, c. 1948, ink marker
drawing, by Miguel Covarrubias
(NPG.91.216).

John O'Brien. Andrew Johnson and his
Cabinet, 1865-1867, lithograph, by
Peter S. Duval (S/NPG.91.112). Lyn-
don Johnson, c. 1964, lithograph, by
Unidentified (S/NPG.91.113). S.
Grover Cleveland and Frances F.
Cleveland, c.1886-1890, chromo-
lithograph, by Donaldson Brothers
(NPG.91.114). James A. Garfield: The
President is Dead, 1881, lithograph, by
Henry Atwell Thomas (NPG.91.u15).
Ulysses S. Grant, 1864, chromo-
lithograph, by Charles Magnus
(NPG.91.16). John J. Hughes, 1863,
line and stipple engraving, by John
B. Forrest (NPG.91.117). George B.
McCellan, c. 1862, chromolithograph,
by Charles Magnus (NPG.91.18).
John McCloskey, 1865, engraving, by
George E. Perine (NPG.91.119).
Franklin Pierce, 1853, wood engraving,
by Unidentified (NPG.91.120). Wil-
liam H. Seward, 1861, wood engrav-
ing, by Unidentified (NPG.91.121).
Philip H. Sheridan, c. 1863-1864,
chromolithograph, by Charles Mag-
nus (NPG.91.122). Walt Whitman,
1872, color wood engraving, by
Richard Shugg (NPG.91.123).

Milton and Ingrid Rose. Thomas Nast,
1902, etching, by Thomas Nast
(NPG.91.u15).

Richard Dudley Sears Family. Elizabeth
Lonsdale Daingerfield, c. 1804-1806,
watercolor, by Charles Balthazar
Julien Fevret de Saint-Memin
(S/NPG.92.119).

Irwin P. Vollmer. Aline Fruhauf, c. 1926,
multi-media sculpture, by Marie Vas-
silieff (NPG.92.006).

Isabel Wilder. Gertrude Stein and Alice
B. Toklas, 1938, gouache drawing, by
Sir Cyril Francis Rose (NPG.91.175).

Donors of In-Kind Support

Japan Air Lines Co., Ltd, transporation
provided for personnel involved with
the exhibition, “Noble Heritage:
Five Centuries of Portraits from the
Hosokawa Family.”

Nippon Cargo Airlines, transport of the
art objects for the exhibition, “Noble
Heritage: Five Centuries of Portraits
from the Hosokawa Family.”

Smithsonian Institution
Traveling Exhibition
Service

Donors of Financial Support
$100, 000 or more

Lila Wallace-Reader’s Digest Fund
$10, 000 or more

Time Warner Inc.

The Nature Conservancy

U.S.-Mexico Commission for Educational
and Cultural Exchange

$5,000 or more

Phillips Petroleum Co.

The Smithsonian Institution Educational
Outreach General Grant Fund

197
Education and
Public Service

Office of Elementary and
Secondary Education

Donor of Financial Support
$50, 000 or more

Brother International Corporation, Inc.

Donor of In-Kind Support
$5,000 or more

American Airlines. Travel to conduct
Regional Workshop Program.

Center for Folklife Programs
and Cultural Studies

Donors of Financial Support
$100, 000 or more

Ford Foundation
State of New Mexico

$50,000 or more
Music Performance Trust Funds
$10, 000 or more

The Johnson Foundation (Trust)

State of New Mexico Department of
Tourism

The White House Historical Association

Kaman Music Corporation

$5, 000 or more

Camille O. and William H. Casby, Jr.
Tourism Association of New Mexico

$1, 000 or more

The Laura Bolton Foundation, Inc.
Colgate-Palmolive Co.

Ganados del Valle

Texas Commission on the Arts

198

Donors to the Collection

French Guiana Aluku Maroons. Carved
and painted house front made of
wood.

French Guiana Aluku Maroons. Carrier
made of straw.

Madeline Naranjo. New Mexico black-
ware pot from Santa Clara Pueblo.
Ada Suina. New Mexico storyteller pot-

tery from Cochiti Pueblo.

Suriname Ndjuka Maroons. Carved and
painted house front made of wood.

Maclovia Zamora. “Jobs tears” rosary
from New Mexico.

Donors of In-Kind Support

Bacardi Imports. Three cases of rum
used in the Maroon program, Festival
of American Folklife.

B. Dalton Bookseller. Two foreign lan-
guage dictionaries for the Festival of
American Folklife.

Bell Atlantic Paging. Loan of two pagers
for Festival supply coordinators.

Bell Haven Pharmacy. Loan of two
wheelchairs for the Festival of
American Folklife.

Ben & Jerry's Ice Cream. Ice cream for
500 Festival participants, staff and
volunteers.

Blacksmiths’ Guild of Potomac. Loan of
various blacksmith materials for use in
the Festival's New Mexico program.

Botanical Gardens. One sotol plant and
18 yucca stalks for the Festival's New
Mexico program.

Boulevard Sales Corp. Steel for
blacksmith's use in the Festival's
New Mexico program.

Brooks Brothers. Loan of a coat rack for
use in the Festival's White House
program.

Campbell Soup Co. Five cases of V-8
and other foodstuffs for Festival par-
ticipant hospitality.

Canales Quality Meats. Seven pounds of
beef tenderloin for foodways
demonstrations in the Festival's
White House program.

Carriage House Imports, Ltd. One case of
Whray & Nephew White Overproof
Rum for the Festival's Maroon program.

Celestial Seasoning. Two cases of herbal
teas for Festival participant hospitality.

Coca Cola Co. 45 cases of soft drinks for
Festival participant hospitality.

Computer Tech Services. Loan of a com-
puter and printer for Festival supply
coordinators.

Conrail, Inc. Transportation of adobe
bricks and corbels, posts and beams
from East St. Louis, Illinois to
Washington, D.C.

Cutters Ceramics. 100 pounds of clay
for the Festival's Maroon program.
Dunkin Doughnuts. 10 dozen doughnuts

for Festival participant hospitality.

Duron Paint. 50 gallons of paint for Fes-
tival site set-up.

Durrett-Sheppard Steel Co., Inc. Steel
for blacksmith’s use in the Festival's
New Mexico program.

Embassy Care Drug Center, Inc. Loan of
three wheelchairs for the Festival of
American Folklife.

Embassy High's Dairy. Two cases of fruit
juice for Festival participant hospitality.

Event Rental Communications, Inc.
Loan of six radios for Festival staff.

FaxLand Corp. Loan of a fax machine
for Festival supply coordinators.

Finney Frock Welding. Loan of a 200
pound anvil for the Festival's New
Mexico program.

Fischer's Hardware. Baling wire for the
Festival’s New Mexico program.

GE Lighting. 200 lightbulbs for tent in-
teriors at the Festival.

Georgetown Paint & Wallpaper. Two
canvas tarps for Festival site set-up.

Glidden Paint. 12 paint rollers for Fes-
tival site set-up.

Herr Food, Inc. Snack food for Festival
participant hospitality.

Inter-American Foundation. Sponsor-
ship of a participant from Ecuador as
part of the Festival's Maroon program.

Jamaica Institute. Support of field
research for the Festival’s Maroon
program.

K-Mart. Various products for Festival
demonstrations.

Keebler Co. Several cases of snack food
for Festival participant hospitality.
Kitchen Bazaar. Two cutting boards for
Festival foodways demonstrations.

Krispy Creme Doughnut Co. 10 dozen
doughnuts for Festival participant
hospitality.
Little Caesars Pizza. Several pizzas for
Festival technical crew.

McReady Marketing Co. Eight cases of
juice for Festival participant hospitality.

National Geographic Society.
Photographs for the Festival's White
House program.

Pear Art & Craft Supplies, Inc. Art
materials for the children’s area in
the Festival's Maroon program.

Randy's Carpets. Carpet remnants for
the children’s area in the Festival's
Maroon program.

Santa Fe Cafe. Guacamole and chips for
Festival participant hospitality.

Santa Fe Railway. Transportation of
adobe bricks, and corbels, posts and
beams from Albuquerque, New
Mexico to East St. Louis, Illinois.

Seaboard Steel & Iron. Steel for the
Festival's New Mexico program.

Shamrock Supply Co. Two cases of
paper products for the Festival’s ad-
ministration compound.

Snyders of Hanover. Cases of potato
chips for Festival participant
hospitality.

Society of American Florists. Flowers
for demonstrations of floral arrange-
ments in the Festival's White House
program.

Steel & Wire Co. 150 pounds of nails for
Festival site set-up.

Sugar Association, Inc. 300 pounds of
sugar for Festival foodways
demonstrations.

Sullivan’s. Box of kraft sticks for the
children’s area in the Festival's
Maroon program.

Sure Fire Distributors. 250 pounds of
charcoal for Festival foodways
demonstrations.

Suriname Airways. Transportation of
materials from Suriname to
Washington, D.C. for the Festival's
Maroon program.

Suriname Government. Support and
sponsorship of the District Com-
missioner of the Sipaliwini District
in assisting field research and par-
ticipating in the Festival’s Maroon
program.

Tandy Leather Co. Two tanned cowhides
(22 sq. ft.) and two deerskins for the
Festival's New Mexico program.

USS. Tile & Marble. 12-foot long pieces
of slate for Festival demonstrations.

Utz Quality Foods, Inc. Cases of potato
chips for Festival participant
hospitality.

Weber-Stephen Products Co. Loan of
four grills for Festival foodways.

Wilkins Coffee. Cases of coffee for Fes-
tival participant hospitality.

William B. Riley Coffee Co. Cases of cof-
fee for Festival participant hospitality.

EW. Woolworth. Variety of products
for Festival demonstrations.

Wider Audience
Development Program
Donors of Financial Support
$ 10, 000 or more

Kellogg National Fellowship Program
The W.K. Kellogg Foundation

External Affairs

Office of the Assistant
Secretary for External
Affairs

Donors of Financial Support
$100, 000 or more

W. Alton Jones Foundation
$30,000 or more

The John D. and Catherine T.
MacArthur Foundation
The Winslow Foundation

$25, 000 or more
Mrs. Marjorie Arundel
$15, 000 or more

Island Press

$ 10, 000 or more

Greenstone Foundation
The Howard Phipps Foundation
The Waste Management

$5,000 or more
H. John Heinz III Charitable Trust
$1, 000 or more

Otto Naumann, Lrd.
Ms. Mary Irma Stevenson

$250 or more

Toadflax, Inc.

Office of International
Relations
Donors of Financial Support

$100, 000 or more

MacArthur Foundation

Office of

Telecommunications
Donors of Financial Support

$50, 000 or more

Corporation for Public Broadcasting
$ 10, 000 or more

Graham Foundation for Advanced
Studies in the Fine Arts

$5,000 or more

Women's Committee of the Smith-
sonian Associates

$1, 000 or more

American Public Radio
Mitchell Energy and Development
Corporation

199
Appendix 8

Contributing Members of the
Smithsonian Institution in

Fiscal Year 1992

The Contributing Membership of the Smithsonian Na-
tional Associate Program supports the Institution

through generous annual donations and special gifts.

Members’ participation enables the Smithsonian to pur-

sue specific projects and broader research, acquisition,

preservation, and education efforts than might other-

wise be possible.

The Smithsonian Institution therefore gratefully ac-

knowledges the loyal and thoughtful assistance of the

Contributing Members, including the Sustaining

Members ($600 annual contribution) and Sponsoring
Members ($300 contribution).

Sustaining Members

Mr. and Mrs. Byrle M. Abbin

Honorable and Mrs. David
C. Acheson

Dr. and Mrs. Samuel W.
Adams

Mr. Davey L. Adams, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Emil A.
Adomat

Honorable and Mrs. James
E. Akins

Mr. and Mrs. John Akins

Mr. Yale H. Alexander

Mr. Morris Alhadeff

Mr. and Mrs. William C.
Allbert

Mr. Burton O. Allen

Ms. Marcia Y. Almassy

200

Mr. George J. Ames

Mr. and Mrs. Richard S.
Antes

Mr. Alfred C. Antoniewicz

Dr. and Mrs. Darrel J. Apple

Mr. Paul A. Archer

Honorable Anne L.
Armstrong

Mrs. Henry W. Baird

Mr. and Mrs. Edward Balfour

Miss Mary J. Barbee

Mr. Jean L. Barker

Mr. and Mrs. Richard L. Barr

Captain Celia Barteau

Mr. and Mrs. Dorsey Baskin

Mr. Jeffrey D. Bauman and

Ms. Linda D. Fienberg

Ms. Jeanne V. Beekhuis

Mr. Charles Beer

Ambassador and Mrs. W.
Tapley Bennett, Jr.

Mr. James H. Berkson

Mr. and Mrs. George W.
Bermant

Mr. John A. Bernard

Mr. and Mrs. Seymour
Bernett

Mr. and Mrs. Charles P.
Berney

Mr. Richard D. Bernstein

Mr. Michael D. Bielucki

Mrs. Elsie F. Bixler

Ms. Alexandra Blackhurst

Ms. Eve S. Bogle

Honorable and Mrs. Edward
P. Boland

Mr. Clifton W. Boots

Dr. and Mrs. William G.
Bowen

Mr. and Mrs. Mitchell T.
Bowie

Mrs. Constance T. Boyd

Mr. and Mrs. Jay M. Boyd

Mr. and Mrs. Robert C.
Braden

Ms. Jo Anne Brasel

Mr. William W. Bray

Mr. and Mrs. John FE. Breyer,
Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Clemens B.
Bribitzer

Mrs. Arlene A. Brown

Mr. and Mrs. D. K. Brown

Ms. Elizabeth C. Brown

Mr. Sheldon W. Buck

Mr. and Mrs. I. Townsend
Burden III

Honorable Warren E. Burger

Mr. and Mrs. James A.
Burkart

Mr. and Mrs. Richard W.
Burkhardt

Dr. Marjorie L. Bush

Mr. and Mrs. Nicholas Bush

Mr. John E. Cannaday

Miss Helen R. Cannon

Mr. Donald Carl

Mr. Robert L. Carrel

Mr. and Mrs. W. Michael
Carter

Mrs. Betty Goff Cartwright

Mr. Frank T. Cary

Honorable Elford A.
Cederberg

John E. Chapoton, Esq.

Mr. and Mrs. Kevin P.
Charles

Mrs. Harold W. Cheel

Mrs. Allen D. Christensen

Mrs. Betty Sams Christian

Ms. Anne K. Christman

Mr. Roy T. Church

Mrs. Charles S. Clark

Mr. Edward J. Clarke

Mr. and Mrs. W. H. Clement

Mr. Fred Clements

Mr. James T. Clyde

Mr. Sidney S. Coggan

Ms. Leslie A. Coggins

Mr. and Mrs. Francis X.
Coleman, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Barber Conable

Ms. Marjorie D. Conroy

Mr. David E. Conston

Mr. Mark E. Cooper

Mr. and Mrs. Robert W.
Copeland

Mr. and Mrs. Frederick D.
Cornelius

Mr. and Mrs. Ralph J. Coselli

Mr. and Mrs. Curtis W. Cox

Mr. and Mrs. Earle M. Craig,
Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Geoffrey Creede

Lieutenant Commander
Wilmer H. Cressman

Ms. Frances J. Cronin

Miss Marion L. Cubberley

Colonel and Mrs. R. J.
Culhane

Mr. and Mrs. Roy Cullen

Mr. Charles A. Cunningham

Dr. Robert D. Cunningham

Mr. and Mrs. Gregory A.
Curt

Mr. J. G. Cutler

Mrs. Leonore Daschbach

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas R.
Dashiell

Mr. L. Randall Daspit

Mr. Madhavarao S. Dasu

Mrs. Jerry R. Davis

Mr. John E. Davis

Dr. T. S. Davis

Mr. and Mrs. J. Edward Day

Mr. E. A. De Falco

Mr. and Mrs. Gregory W.
Dean

Mr. Mel L. Decker
Mr. James L. Deegan

Mr. and Mrs. Arthur F.
Dellheim

Mrs. Mary J. Deutschbein

Mr. and Mrs. James Dietz

Mr. Bruce C. Dillon

Mr. and Mrs. Ralph Dixon

Mrs. Charles G. Dodge

Dr. and Mrs. William H.
Dornette

Mr. and Mrs. Dennis E.
Dorsch

Mr. Joseph F. Douglas

Mr. Karl Douma

Dr. and Mrs. Joseph S. Drage

Ms. Imogene S. Driscoll and

Mr. Curt Kambic

Mr. and Mrs. Walter W.
Duncan

Dr. Lucia J. Dunham

Mr. and Mrs. H. Stewart
Duna, Jr.

Mr. Robert Edelmann

Mr. Peter D. Ehrenhaft

Mrs. Bart M. Eisner

Mr. and Mrs. V. L. Elliott

Mr. and Mrs. George T.
Elmore

Dr. and Mrs. John Esswein

Mr. and Mrs. James G.
Evans, Jr.

Commander and Mrs.
Thomas E. Fahy

Mr. and Mrs. Ross N. Faires

Mrs. Roland C. Fegan

Mrs. Ernest R. Feidler

Dr. Gary R. Fender and

C. Henry Engleka

Mr. and Mrs. John Ferguson

Mr. Nicholas M. Ferriter

Mrs. Mary M. Fisher

Mr. and Mrs. Charles T.
Fisher III

Dr. Ruth C. Flanagan

Mr. Howard M. Flournoy and

Mr. Ronald A. Walker

Mr. and Mrs. Samuel C. Ford

Mr. and Mrs. Kenneth Foster

Mr. Benjamin Frank

Mrs. Charlton Friedberg

Mr. Kenneth I. Friedman

Ms. Virginia Friend

Mr. Cary J. Frieze

Mr. and Mrs. Stephen F.
Fromyer

Honorable J. William
Fulbright

Captain and Mrs. J. E.
Galloway

Honorable E. J. Garn

Mrs. John M. Gates, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Walter F.
Geisinger

Miss Helen W. Giacobine

Mr. Wallace E. Giles

Mrs. J. A. Gill

Mr. and Mrs. Louis Ginsberg

Dr. and Mrs. Leonard M.
Glassman

Dr. and Mrs. Clarence Glenn

Dr. Louis Gluck

Honorable Robert F. Goheen

Colonel and Mrs. Julius
Goldstein

Honorable and Mrs. Barry
Goldwater

Mrs. Seabury S. Gould IV

Mr. and Mrs. Bernard Green

Mrs. Dorothy Green

Dr. and Mrs. Crawford
Greenewalt

Mr. Regis A. Greenwood

Mrs. Joseph B. Gregg

Mrs. Ann Y. Grim

Miss Mary K. Gully

Mr. Theodore J. Hadraba, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Kingsley W.
Hamilton

Mr. and Mrs. Charles W.
Hammond

Mr. and Mrs. B. M. Hanley

Ms. Morella R. Hansen

Mr. Kurtz M. Hanson

Mr. and Mrs. Edwin F.
Harper

Mr. Irving B. Harris

Dr. John M. Harris LI

Ms. Leslie S. Harrold

Honorable and Mrs. Parker
T. Hart

Dr. Caryl P. Haskins

Mr. William H. Hastings

Mrs. Charles W. Hayes

Mr. and Mrs. E. H. Heaton

Mr. and Mrs. Felder F. Heflin

Mr. Frederick H. Heierding

Mr. and Mrs. Robert
Henigson

Mr. and Mrs. Irving N.
Hepner

Mr. and Mrs. William
Herbster

Ms. Catherine W. Herman

Dr. William Herring

Professor I. Michael Heyman

Honorable A. Leon
Higginbotham, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Edwin L. Hill

Mr. and Mrs. William J.
Hines

Mr. Charles W. Hinkle

Mr. Joseph U. Hinshaw

Mr. and Mrs. Bill Hirsch

Mr. and Mrs. R. E.
Hirschman

Mr. James M. Hobbins

Mr. Ronald W. Hoffman

Mr. William P. Holcombe

Mr. and Mrs. Richard
Hollander

Captain and Mrs. F.N.
Holley

Mr. and Mrs. Larry
Hollingsworth

Mr. and Mrs. Robert C.
Holsen

Mrs. Richard W. Homer

Mr. and Mrs. George F.
Hoover

Mr. and Mrs. Harry R.
Horrow

Mr. Charles Hosler

Mr. Robert Howard

Mr. and Mrs. Robert S.
Hudgins IV

Mrs. W. C. Huffman

Mrs. Carlisle H. Humelsine

Mrs. Elizabeth L. Hunter

Mrs. Margaret Stuart Hunter

Mr. and Mrs. William H.
Hunter

Dr. John R. Jacoway

Mr. Reinhardt H. Jahn

Mr. G. R. Janosko

Mr. Axel Jelstrup

Mr. and Mrs. Stifel W. Jens

Mr. and Mrs. Arthur W.
Johnson

Mr. and Mrs. Bruce E.
Johnson

Mr. and Mrs. David D.
Johnson

Mrs. Patricia C. Johnson

Mr. Ray A. Johnson

Mr. and Mrs. Richard E.
Jones

Mr. and Mrs. Samuel C. Jones

Mrs. Jean Joyner

Mr. and Mrs. Edward H.
Judson

Ms. C. Parrish Kangiester

Mrs. R. H. Karns

Mr. and Mrs. Kenneth E.
Kerle

Mrs. Juliet F. Kidney

Mr. Stephen King

Mr. William W. King

Mr. Richard E. Kingham

Mr. John W. Kirsch

Mr. Albert T. Kister

Mr. Karl D. Klauck

Ms. Susan L. Klaus

Mr. Michael N. Klein and

Ms. Mary Jane Sullivan

Mr. and Mrs. Stephen N.
Kline

Mr. John W. Knowles

Mrs. Margaret R. Knudsen

Dr. and Mrs. Ross Kory

Ms. Janet Anastacia Krombar

Mr. William R. Lamb

Mr. John F. Larison

Dr. and Mrs. Jack M. Layton

Ms. Virginia R. Lazzati

Mrs. Hugh F. Leahy

Mr. and Mrs. Elmore Leonard

Mrs. Aleen Leslie

Mr. James A. Lipsett

Mr. C. Henry Lockwood III

Mrs. Katherine V. Lofstrand

Mr. J. R. Loftis, Jr.

Mr. H. M. Love

Mr. Bart W. Lovins

Mr. and Mrs. Schuyler Lowe

Mr. and Mrs. Harry D.
Ludeman

Mr. and Mrs. Alan H. Lund

Ms. Patti Lupone

Mr. R. Lushing

Miss Louise Lutz

Mr. and Mrs. Ronald P.
Lynch

Mr. Ralph K. Madway

Ms. Helen J. Malmstead

Mr. and Mrs. Harry Mandil

Mrs. Robert Mannherz

Ms. Fay W. Marie

Mr. R. N. Marshall

201
Mr. and Mrs. John F.
Marshall, Jr.

_ Mr. and Mrs. Benjamin L.
Marx, Jr.

Dr. Wayne Mathews

Mr. George D. Maynard, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Terence
McAuliffe

Mr. W. W. McCalla

Mr. Donald E. McCallister

Dr. Jeane McCarthy

Mrs. W. V. McClain

Mr. E. J. McCormack, Jr.

Honorable Joseph M.
McDade

Mr. and Mrs. John S.
McDaniel, Jr.

Mr. Francis J. McIntyre

Dr. and Mrs. Frank W.
McKee

Mr. Charles McLaughlin

Mr. Paul B. McMahon, Jr.

Mr. James A. McNeese

Mr. and Mrs. M. McNulty

Mrs. Ruth R. McRae

Mr. and Mrs. Robert S.
Melville

Mr. Louis W. Menk

Mrs. Rose Menz

Mrs. Ida C. Merriam

Mr. Paul D. Meyer

Ms. Mildred Middlekauff

Mr. David Mikolai

Mr. and Mrs. Gordon K.
Milestone

Ms. Edith J. Miller

Colonel and Mrs. James E.
Miller

Mr. and Mrs. Roger W.
Miller

Mr. and Mrs. Stanley G.
Miller

Honorable Norman Y.
Mineta

Honorable William E.
Minshall

Ms. Laura A. Mitchell

Ms. M. Miyamoto

Mr. J. B. Montgomery

Mrs. E. P. Moore

Ms. Joan Turner Moore

Mrs. Ann K. Morales

Dr. Edwin E. Morey

Mr. and Mrs. John H.
Morison

202

Honorable and Mrs. Frank
E. Moss

Dr. P. Steven Mote

Senator Daniel P. Moynihan

Mr. and Mrs. James Mulshine

Dr. and Mrs. John C. Munson

Miss Janet H. Murray

Dr. Homer A. Neal

Honorable Sharon T. Nelson

Mr. Harry Neugold

Mr. Rick Newbery

Mr. John H. Newell

Dr. Morris Newman

Mr. Scott Newton

Mr. Robert W. Ney

Mr. and Mrs. Gary Nichols

Mr. and Mrs. Richard A.
Niles

Mr. and Mrs. Roger A. Nitto

Mr. David G. Noonan

Ms. Katherine Nordsieck

Mr. W. R. Norfolk

Mr. C. Norman

Mr. R. Duane Norris

Mr. and Mrs. Robert L.
North

Mr. and Mrs. Karl G. Nowak

Mr. and Mrs. William J.
O'Connor

Mr. and Mrs. James
O'Rourke

Mrs. Kay D. O'Rourke

Mr. Robert K. Oaks

Mrs. Alfred J. Olmo

Mr. Ted B. Olson

Mrs. D. F. Orwig

Mr. L. Allen Osborne

Mr. and Mrs. James R.
Palmer

Mr. James W. Parks

Mr. and Mrs. David T. Parry

Miss Muriel H. Parry

Dr. J. D. Patterson

Mr. Stephen E. Peat

Honorable Claiborne Pell

Mrs. Thomas Perkins

Mr. James T. Pettus, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Robert T.
Pfeiffer

Mr. and Mrs. James S. Picken

Dr. Marjorie P. Pollack

Mr. Ralph Porter

Mr. H. Posner, Jr.

Ms. Mildred Potocki

Honorable and Mrs. J.
Danforth Quayle

Mr. T. Quinn

Ms. Marjorie Ramsden

Mr. Elmer Rasmuson

Mr. and Mrs. Patrick H.
Reagan

Mr. and Mrs. William B.
Reese

Mr. and Mrs. S. Theodore
Reiner

Mrs. Terry N. Reynolds

Mr. Roy C. Rhinehart, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Charles S.
Richards

Mr. and Mrs. Charles W.
Richards

Mr. William W. Richardson

Ms. Ashley Ridgway

Miss Jean Roberts

Ms. Mary M. Roberts

Ms. Ruth Roberts

Mr. and Mrs. George A.
Robeson, Jr.

Mr. L. A. Roepcke

Mr. and Mrs. Robert E.
Rogers

Mr. and Mrs. Robert W. Root

Mr. Irving Rose

Mrs. J. S. Rose

Mrs. Nathan Rosenfeld

Mr. and Mrs. Herbert J.
Rowe

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas E.
Rowland

Ms. Marcia Rubenstein

Mr. and Mrs. Roy R. Russo

Dr. and Mrs. Abner Sachs

Mr. and Mrs. Arnold Sagalyn

Mrs. J. J. Salter

Mr. A. Herbert Sandwen

Honorable James R. Sasser

Mr. and Mrs. Thorndike
Saville, Jr.

Mrs. Lillian M. Saxe

Mr. and Mrs. John M. Sayre

Honorable and Mrs. James
H. Scheuer

Dr. and Mrs. Hans H.
Schneider

Mr. and Mrs. Robert
Schneider

Mrs. Charles M. Scott

Mr. James J. Scott

Mr. and Mrs. Harold A. Serr

Mr. and Mrs. J. H. Sheffield

Mr. and Mrs. Gerard E.
Shelton

Dr. and Mrs. R. M. Shepard

Mr. and Mrs. Gerald A.
Sheppard

Mr. and Mrs. Theodore J.
Shively

Mr. George B. Shott

Mrs. Laura Devine Shown

Mr. Carl J. Shuhi

Ms. M. L. Sibley

Mr. Richard Sills

Mr. George J. Sisley

Mr. and Mrs. Robert E.
Skelly

Mr. and Mrs. Alan L. Skerker

Mr. and Mrs. Gerald Slawecki

Mrs. Dorothy Small

Mr. Charles E. Smith

Mr. and Mrs. Dean Smith

Mr. and Mrs. Stevan B. Smith

Mr. W. Y. Smith and

Ms. Maria P. Smith

Mr. Patrick Snead

Miss Ginny Sniegon

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas R.
Sperling

Mr. and Mrs. Guy Sponseller

Mrs. Roger Squire

Mr. Ellwood C. Stang

Mr. David A. Stark

Mr. Donn A. Starry

Mr. R. N. Stefan

Mr. and Mrs. Stephen R.
Steinbrink

Ms. Susan Steinsapir

Mr. and Mrs. Robert B.
Stephens

Mr. and Mrs. William O.
Stewart

Dr. L. Dow Strader, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. John G. Strange

Mr. Jeffrey Sturgess

Ms. Joanna Sturm

Mr. Harris M. Sullivan

Mr. Louis W. Swann, Jr.

Ms. Mary Swanson

Mr. W. Warren Taltavull

Mrs. Delle Ernst Taylor

Mr. William L. Taylor

Mr. and Mrs. James W. Tester

Mr. Allen D. Thomas

Ms. Kaaran Thomas

Mr. H. D. Thompson
Mrs. B. W. Thoron

Mr. and Mrs. John T.
Tielking

Mr. Stephen Tilton

Mr. Ernest M. Travis

Mr. and Mrs. Richard C.
Traylor

Mr. David Treacy

Mr. George S. Trees, Jr.

Mr. R. E Trefielo

Mr. and Mrs. Donald O.
Tucker

Mrs. James N. Tulloh

Mrs. Jean A. Twitchell

Dr. Paul L. Urban

Mr. and Mrs. J. Bernard
Vallandingham, Jr.

Mr. W. G. Van Allen

Dr. William C. Van Arsdel
Ill

Mr. and Mrs. W. G. Van
Sant, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. John A. Varela

Mr. Raoul M. Verhagen

General John W. Vessey, Jr.

Ms. Nancy Voorhees

Dr. Woodward Waesche

Dr. and Mrs. Peter E.
Wagner

Mr. Theodore H. Wales

Dr. Joe W. Ward

Mr. FE. B. Warder

Mrs. Saul Warshaw

Dr. Juan Watkins

Ms. Mildred V. Watts

Mr. P. Devers Weaver

Honorable and Mrs. James
E. Webb

Mrs. Ruth L. Webb

Mrs. Arvid G. Wedin

Mr. and Mrs. John F.
Weersing

Mr. and Mrs. Emil P.
Weilbacher, Jr.

Mr. J. R. Weiss

Ms. Ann Welborn

Mr. and Mrs. Jack W. Wells

Mr. and Mrs. Irwin H.
Wensink

Mrs. Sharon Westafer

Mr. and Mrs. Craig L.
Weston

Colonel and Mrs. Grover C.
White, Jr.

Mrs. B. A. Whitmarsh

Honorable Jamie L. Whitten

Ms. Mary Ellen Wiggs

Mr. L. H. Wilcox

Mr. James E. Wiley

Mr. and Mrs. Norman C.
Willcox

Mrs. Elizabeth M. Williams

Mr. and Mrs. Robert A.
Williams

Dr. B. Willis

Mrs. John M. Willits

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Willson

Mr. and Mrs. Morton H.
Wilner

Ms. Janice L. Wilson

Mrs. Harriet L. Wilt

Mr. and Mrs. David
Wintermann

Mr. and Mrs. Payson Wolff

Honorable R. James Woolsey

Captain and Mrs. John
Woolston

Mr. James O. Wright

Ms. Margaret J. Wyllie

Honorable Sidney R. Yates

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas E.
Zitter

Mr. Thomas Zutaut

Sponsoring Members

Ms. Susan Absher

Colonel and Mrs. James D.
Adams

Mr. and Mrs. Laurence J.
Adams

Mr. Sam H. Adams, Jr.

Mrs. R. E. Adams, Jr.

Mr. Max Adkison

Mrs. Barbara Jean Ageno

Ms. Doris D. Albert

Mr. and Mrs. Donald C.
Alexander

Mr. and Mrs. Richard T.
Alexander, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Alfred L. Allen

Mr. and Mrs. Carrol B. Allen

Miss Isabel Allen

Mrs. K.C. Allen

Mr. Robert H. Allen

Mr. Steven J. Allen

Mrs. Carolyn Alper

Mr. and Mrs. Lambert E.
Althaver

Mr. and Mrs. E. W.
Altstaetter

Mr. Bert Amador

Mr. and Mrs. Donald F.
Ames

Mr. and Mrs. Paul J. Amico

Mr. and Mrs. David B.
Amiot

Mr. Clifford H. Anderson

Mr. J. Donald Anderson

Mr. K. F. Anderson

Mr. and Mrs. Paul B.
Anderson

Mr. Tim Anderson

Miss Wilma M. Angelbeck

Miss E. Pauline Annis

Miss Michi Anraku

Ms. Rose C. Anthony

Dr. and Mrs. John T.
Antolik

Ms. Barbara A. Aplanalp

Miss Edith Appleton

Miss Aline Arceneaux

Mr. E. J. Archbold

Miss Marie G. Argana

Mr. R. Arkin

Mr. Roone Arledge

Mr. Joseph P. Armstrong
and Ms. Melinda L.
Armstrong

Mr. William D. Armstrong

Ms. Helen J. Arthur-Dunn

Mr. Pat Ashburn

Mrs. E. M. Ashcraft II

Mrs. Elanor Ashleigh

Mr. J. Ashman, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Robert F.
Asleson

Mr. and Mrs. W. S. Atherton

Mr. James M. Atkins

Dr. and Mrs. A. K. Atkinson

Mr. Philip E. Atkinson

Mr. Gunther Augustin

Mrs. Francis Austin

Ms. Imogen E. Averett

Mr. and Mrs. Donald G.
Avery

Mr. and Mrs. Donald P.
Avery

Mr. and Mrs. John J. Avion

Mr. and Mrs. William I.
Bacchus

Ms. Ellen Bach

Mr. and Mrs. Norman G.
Bach

Dr. and Mrs. Joseph A.
Backer

Mr. Gordon N. Backlund

Dr. W. E. Badenhausen, Jr.

Mrs. Gretta L. Bader

Mr. Robert Baer and

Ms. Kathy Kerns

Mr. and Mrs. David A.
Baerncopf

Mr. D. M. Baigelman

Mr. and Mrs. Stephen P.
Bailey

Mr. and Mrs. Charles L. Bain

Mr. and Mrs. Lee H. Baker

Mr. and Mrs. Richard A.
Baker

Mrs. Thomas K. Baker

Mrs. Virginia B. Baker

Ms. Velma N. Baldwin

Mr. and Mrs. Mark J. Ball

Captain and Mrs. Stuart M.
Ball

Dr. and Mrs. Mark E.
Ballinger

Mr. and Mrs. George R.
Ballowe

Mr. Doyle Ballreich

Mr. Walter F. Bandi, Jr.

Mr. Michael Barczak

Mr. Donald Barker

Mr. and Mrs. John Barker

Ms. Beverly L. Barnes

Mr. Dwight H. Barnes

Ms. Roberta O. Barnes and
Mr. Clark J. Chandler

Mr. and Mrs. Julian L.
Barnett

Dr. Guy D. Barnicoat

Mr. and Mrs. George L.
Barquist

Mr. and Mrs. E. W. Barrett

Mr. and Mrs. E. Barrow

Mr. and Mrs. John W.
Barrow

Dr. Winona M. Barrows

Dr. and Mrs. Charles I.
Bartfeld

Mr. and Mrs. Art Bartlett

Mr. Matthew Barton

Mr. Gary L. Basham Mrs.
Frank E. Basil

Mr. and Mrs. Arno Basse

Mr. Warren S. Bates

Mr. and Mrs. W. H. Batie

Ms. Lois Battersby

203
Mr. and Mrs. Myron C. Baum

Mr. and Mrs. Milton Baxt

Ms. Lorraine Bayer

Mr. and Mrs. George C.
Bazaco

Ms. Barbara Purse Beach

Mr. William H. Beardsley

Mr. R. Gifford Beaton

Mr. and Mrs. John M.
Beaulieu

Mr. and Mrs. Bernhard G.
Bechhoefer

Mr. Eugene H. Beck

Mr. Lawrence Becker

Honorable and Mrs. Berkley
Bedell

Mr. Daniel C. Beisel

Mr. Lawrence P. Belden

Mr. Mickey Bell

Mrs. John H. Bemis

Mr. and Mrs. Jack Bender

Mrs. Linda B. Bender

Ms. Linda J. Benedict

Mr. and Mrs. William R.
Benham

Dr. and Mrs. David C.
Benjamin

Dr. and Mrs. Richard W.
Benjamin

Mr. and Mrs. Robert
Benjamin

Mr. Gregory Benkovic

Mr. R. P. BenninghofenMrs.
Iona Benson

Ms. Grace Berg Schaible

Mr. Kenneth Berger

Ms. Marie Bergmann

Mr and Mrs Jeffrey Berlin

Dr. and Mrs. S. J. Berlin

Mr. and Mrs. Bernard
Berman

Dr. Harold Berman

Mr. Samuel W. Bernheimer

Mr. P. Bernik

Dr. Spencer Berry

Dr. William R. Bertelsen

Mr. Joseph B. Bidwell

Mr. Bruce Biggs

Ms. Barbara S. Bill

Dr. and Mrs. Peter S. Bing

Mr. Howard M. Bingham

Mr. J. K. Birchfield, Jr.

Mrs. Loris G. Birnkrant

Mr. and Mrs. P. Bjerkman

Mr. G. W. Black

204

Dr. James T. Blackmon, Jr.

Mrs. V. Blaine

Honorable and Mrs. Warren
E. Blair

Mr. James Blaser

Mr. A. D. Blatnikoff

Mr. Peter A. Bleyler

Mr. Howard H. Bloom

Ms. Naomi Lee Bloom and

Mr. Ronald Glenn Wallace

Mr. and Mrs. Emanuel
Boasberg III

Ms. Marita A. Bobay

Ms. Enola V. Bode

Mr. David Bodycombe and
Ms. Maureen Fisher

Dr. George P. Bogumill

Mr. and Mrs. Vernon G. Bohl

Mr. M. R. Bohm

Ms. Constance J. Bohon

Mrs. John H. Bond

Mr. David Bonderman

Mr. and Mrs. Philip Bonsal

Mr. Bruce Booker

Ms. Lorna Boothroyd

Mr. and Mrs. John Boppart

Mr. Rick Borchert

Dr. Fredricka Borland

Mr. and Mrs. F. J. Borowsky

Mr. Arthur D. Bosworth

Ms. Barbara C. Bottarini

Dr. and Mrs. Maxwell
Boverman

Ms. Delphine B. Bowers

Ms. Patricia C. Bowman

Mr. and Mrs. Alton Boyer

Dr. Norman Boyer

Ms. Maria Brabb

Mr. Robert Bradbury

Ms. Eugenie R. Bradford

Mr. and Mrs. William G.
Bradford

Mrs. Anna E. Bradley

Mrs. Janice Braly

Mrs. Joan V. Brandt

Mr. and Mrs. Calvin Brantley

Mrs. Rose J. Bratton

Mr. and Mrs. Leonard Braun

Mr. Willam E. Braunig

Mrs. S. Brazil

Mr. and Mrs. Robert A.
Brechler

Mr. and Mrs. Roy
Bremerman, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Maurice F.
Bresnahan

Mr. Frank Brettholle

Mr. and Mrs. Gene C.
Brewer

Mr. and Mrs. Lester L.
Brewer

Mr. Robert L. Bridges

Mrs. Evelyn P. Brier

Ms. Patricia Brinker

Mr. H. A. Brinner

Mr. and Mrs. Allan C. Brittle

Ms. Marilyn Broad

Mr. Richard Brockman

Mr. James E. Brodhacker

Mr. John J. Brogan

Mr. Randall Brooks

Mr. Dennis M. Broon

Mr. and Mrs. John A. Bross

Mr. Albert Brown

Mr. and Mrs. Glen F. Brown

Mr. L. Brown

Mr. Lawrence D. Brown

Mrs. Thomas M. Brown

Mrs. William R. Brown

Mr. and Mrs. Harry A.
Brown III

Mr. Gary M. Browning

Mr. Steven Brummel

Mr. Karl J. Brunner

Mr. and Mrs. Stephen C.
Bruno

Mrs. Laurence Brunswick

Mr. Dick Brush

Mr. Philip D. Brust

Mr. and Mrs. William L.
Bryan

Mrs. Wiley T. Buchanan, Jr.

Honorable and Mrs. Philip
Buchen

Mr. James Buck

Mr. and Mrs. H. Paul
Buckingham

Ms. Helen A. Buckley and

Ms. Helen B. Single

Mr. and Mrs. John E.
Buckley

Mr. William W. Budge

Lieutenant Commander C. L.
Buechler

Mr. and Mrs. Frederick
Buechner

Mr. Robert F. Bulens

Miss Mary J. Bumby

Captain H. F Burfeind

Dr. Billy Burk

Mr. Carl A. Burkhart

Mr. and Mrs. Frederick F.
Burks

Mrs. Poe Burling

Mrs. Diantha R. Burnett

Dr. and Mrs. Richard E.
Burney

Mr. and Mrs. D. C. Burnham

Lieutenant Colonel and Mrs.
Robert M. Burnham

Mr. and Mrs. Frederic W. Burr

Mrs. Laura W. Bure

Mr. and Mrs. Philip S. Burr

Miss Edna-Lea Burruss

Mr. and Mrs. Glenn EF.
Burton

Mr. T. G. Burzawa

Mr. and Mrs. Edward J. Bush

Mr. and Mrs. James T. Bush

Dr and Mrs Allan C.
Bushnell

Mrs. H. M. Busick

Dr. A. R. Butler

Mrs. Hugh H. Butler

Dr. and Mrs. James H. Butler

Mr. R. L. Butler, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Alfred C.
Buxton

Mr. Darcie Byrn

Mr. W. Byrnes

Mrs. Helen N. Cabell

S. A. Cacciatore

Mr. Dennis G. Cadena

Dr. and Mrs. Gary W. Cage

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Cahill

Mr. and Mrs. William M.
Cahn, Jr.

Mr. Alden E. Caldwell

Mr. and Mrs. Lawrence B.
Caldwell

Ms. M. E. Caldwell

Mrs. EF. G. Cameron

Mr. Kenneth S. Cameron

Mr. and Mrs. Edgar H.
Canfield

Mr. Philip L. Cantelon and
Mrs. Eileen McGuckian

Ms. Marjorie M. Cantor

Mr. and Mrs. Anthony P.
Caravello

Mr. C. G. Carey

Mrs. Phyllis H. Carey

Ms. Judith Carlson

Mr. Leland V. Carlson
Mr. Robert E. Carlson

Mr. Dean C. Carlton

Mr. and Mrs. Lloyd E.
Carnright

Mr. Richard V. Carolan

Ms. S. G. Carpenter

Dr. John M. Carper

Mrs. Martha A. Carr

Ms. Christine K. Carrico

Ms. Cindi L. Carroll and Mr.
Charles M. Carroll

Mr. and Mrs. Mark J. Carroll

Mr. Donald D. Carruth

Mr. J. Carson

Mr. and Mrs. Leo A. Carten

Colonel and Mrs. Douglas
H. Carter

Ms. Lily Marie Carter

Mr. Victor Cascella

Captain Edmund L. Castillo

Mr. Vicente F. Castillo

Mrs. James A. Cathcart

Mr. and Mrs. James E.
Caudill

Mr. W. R. Cavanagh

Mr. M. Cerqueira

Ms. Colleen M. Chalker

Dr. M. H. Chamberlain

Dr. Ward A. Chamers

Mr. and Mrs. William Chan

Mr. Jonathan L. Chang

Colonel and Mrs. G. E.
Chapin, Jr.

Colonel Daniel T. Chapman

Dr. Samuel Charache and Dr.

Patricia Charache

Honorable and Mrs. Steven
M. Charno

Ms. Cynthia M. Chase and
Mr. Kenneth H. Chase

Mr. Donald Chase

Mr. and Mrs. Boris E.
Cherney

Mr. Harry Chernoff

Mr. Ray F. Cherry

Mr. and Mrs. Steven D.
Cherry

Mr. H. T. Chester, Jr.

Mrs. Bernard P. Chewning

Ms. Allene R. Chiesman

Mr. John Childs

Mr. Brian Chilton

Miss Jean M. Chisholm

Dr. and Mrs. Purnell W.
Choppin

Mr. Lawrence Chubet

Mr. Fred Clagett

Dr. and Mrs. Charles H.
Clark

Mr. George Clark

Mr. H. Lawrence Clark

Mr. Richard G. Clark

Dr. and Mrs. Thomas A.
Clark

Mrs. Robert L. Clarke

Mrs. Robert L. Clausen

Mr. Robert K. Clawson

Mrs. Lindsay T. Clegg

Mr. James A. Clements

Mr. and Mrs. Charles A.
Cleveland

Mr. William F Clinger, Jr.

Mr. Richard F. Clowes

Mr. and Mrs. Charles F.
Coates

Captain and Mrs. Richard
Cobb

Mr. and Mrs. William W.
Cobey

Mr. William H. Cochrane

Dr. Thomas B. Cocke

Ms. Janet A. Coen

Anne E. Coghlan, Phd.

Ms. Linda L. Cogswell

Mr. and Mrs. George H.
Cohen

Mrs. Helen H. Cohen

Dr. and Mrs. Irvin M. Cohen

Mr. and Mrs. Julius Cohen

Mr. James Coke

Mr. and Mrs. Edmond
Colaianni

Mr. and Mrs. Richard D.
Colburn

Mr. and Mrs. W. H.
Coldiron

Mr. and Mrs. Clarence L.
Coleman, Jr.

Mrs. James M. Collins

Ms. Pamela D. Collins

Mr. and Mrs. Philip L.
Collyer

Mrs. Betsy F. Colquit

Mrs. W. A. Colvin

Mr. William L. Coman and

Ms. Julie-Anne W. Coman

Miss Bertita E. Compton

Mrs. Herman Cone, Jr.

Mrs. Ethel Conlisk

Mr. Steven S. Conner

Mr. A. Thomas Connolly

Dr. and Mrs. Philip Connolly

Mr. J. Conte

Mr. Charles C. Convers

Mrs. Camille L. Cook

Mr. Leslie Cook

Ms. Lori Cooke-Marra

Mr. Vernon P. Cooley

Ms. Janet B. Cooper

Mr. John N. Cooper

Mr. and Mrs. H. Warren
Cooper LI

Mr. Dallas M. Coors

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas W.
Coppock

Mr. Henry G. Corey

Dr. and Mrs. Robert T. Corey

Dr. W. G. Corey

Mr. J. N. Corey, Jr.

Ms. Judith Corley

Mr. M. C. Cornell

Dr. Danilo M. Coronel

Mrs. Louis Corson

Dr. and Mrs. Walter H.
Corson

Mr. Dennis J. Cotter and
Ms. Marianne T. Hamilton

Mr. A. Cotts

Mr. and Mrs. Donald N.
Coupard

Miss Jo Ann Cowan

Miss Mary L. Cox

Mr. William E. Cox

Mr. and Mrs. David M.
Crabtree

Mr. and Mrs. Jack Crabtree

Mr. Herbert R. Crane

Mr. G. B. Crary, Jr.

Dr. Robert B. Craven

C. M. Crawford

Mr. W. Crawford, Jr.

Mr. Jerry D. Crites

Mr. John H. Crittenden

Mr. and Mrs. Sumner
Crosby, Jr.

Mrs. Richard S. Cross

Ms. Kathryn M. Crossgrove

Ms. Harriet Barker Crowe

Mrs. W. Crowe

Mr. Gilbert W. Cullen

Mrs. Susan L. Cullman

Mr. Lyndle Cummings

Mr. Robert L. Cummings

Mr. and Mrs. Leo C. Cunniff

Mr. Charles S. Curran

Mrs. George H. Curran

Mr. John Joseph Curtin

Mrs. Richard M. Cutts

Miss Margaret M. Dahm

Mr. Kevin B. Dalton

Mr. and Mrs. Robert L.
Dalton

Mrs. Christine Danforth

Mr. K. R. Daniel

Mr. John H. Daniels

Ms. Ethel E. Danzansky

Mr. B. J. Darova

Ms. Sharon G. Daspit

Ms. Delberta M. Daveler

Ms. Julia H. Davidson

Mr. David Davies

Mrs. David G. Davies

Mrs. A. Davis

Mr. and Mrs. Barry C. Davis

Mr. and Mrs. Bernard E.
Davis

Mr. E. E. Davis

Colonel H. R. Davis

Mr. and Mrs. Howard W.
Davis

Ms. Jane Davis

Mr. John F. Davis

Mr. Patrick Davis

Mrs. Ralph Davis

Mr. Robert Davis

General and Mrs. Kenneth FE.
Dawale

Mr. Peter J. De La Garza and
Mr. Ben R. Tucker

Mrs. Gloria L. De Padilla

Mr. Craig M. Dean and Ms.
Donna M. Murasky

Mr. Joseph E. Dean

Mr. Robert Dean

Mr. and Mrs. William J.
Dean

Dr. Philip C. Deaton

Mr. D. C. Deberry

Mr. James Deboer

Mr. and Mrs. Harold D.
Decker

Mrs. Thomas Dedomenico

Mr. and Mrs. Donald A.
Deen

Mr. and Mrs. David M.
Degabriele and Mrs.
Kathy L. Ragain

Mr. Marvin Dekelboum

205
Mrs. G. EF. Dekeyser

Mr. and Mrs. Ben T. Delahay

Captain Victor Delano

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph P.
Dellinger

Mrs. V. E. Demarest

Mr. and Mrs. Andrew S.
Deming

Mr. Henry O. Denman

Ms. Danna Denning

Dr. and Mrs. Lewis Hilliard
Dennis

Mr. John Robert Denny

Colonel and Mrs. Joseph F.
Derienzo

Mr. Roy M. Derrick

Mr. Thomas J. Desipin

Mr. Robert Jay Deutsch

Mr. Frank Devino

Mr. G. W. Devoe

Mr. Larry Devries

Mrs. D. J. Dewart

Mss. T. T. Dewolf

Mr. Burton Dezendorf

Mrs. Robert L. Dick

Dr. and Mrs. Paul F.
Dickens, Jr.

Mr. P. I. Dickey

Mr. and Mrs. Bob Dickinson

Mr. J. E. Diegelman

Mr. Fred J. Diemer

Ms. Margretta Diemer

Mr. and Mrs. John B.
Dilworth

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Dimuro

Mr. William Dixon

Mr. and Mrs. John B. Doak

Mr. Keith A. Dobbins

Mr. G. S. Dodge

Mrs. Walter W. Doescher

John H. Doles III

Mrs. Dolstra

Mr. and Mrs. Robert S.
Donaghy

Mr. Henry T. Donahoe

Mr. Francis W. Donahue

Mrs. Lloyd Donant

Reverend and Mrs. James K.
Donnell

Ms. Elinor C. Donnelly

Mr. Christopher J. Doozan

Mr. and Mrs. Donald A.
Doran

Mrs. Joyce N. Dortch

Ms. Barbara M. Doty

206

Mr. Wallace C. Doud

Ms. M. H. Downing

Mr. and Mrs. John Doyle

Dr. Susan S. Doyle

Mr. William T. Doyle

Ms. Barbara B. Drackett

Mr. Jim Drehle

Mr. and Mrs. David C.
Dressler

Colonel D. M. Drummond

Mr. and Mrs. Irenee Du
Pont, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. David A. Duff

Mr. W. L. Duffey

Mr. John L. Duffy

Mr. William E. Duffy

Mrs. M. D. Duggan

Mr. and Mrs. William E.
Duke

Ms. Joanne E. Dumene

Mr. and Mrs. John M.
Dunnan

Mr. Wayne Durbin

Dr. Margot Durrer

Mr. and Mrs. FE. C.
Duthweiler

Mr. and Mrs. R. H. Dwan, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Douglas
Dwyer

Dr. and Mrs. Vernon J.
Dwyer

Ms. Ann L. Dyke

Dr. Gary F. Earle

Mr. Gordon Eastburn

General and Mrs. George D.
Eastes

Mr. Terry J. Easton

Mrs. J. T. Eaton

Mr. and Mrs. Russell Eaton
Ill

Ms. Helen Eccleston

Mr. William W. Edgerton
and Ms. Bonnie M. Green

Mr. J. R. Edinger

Mr. and Mrs. Charles Edson

Ms. Margaret W. Edwards

Ms. Mary Jane Edwards

Mrs. Robert G. Edwards

Ms. Shirley Egashira

Mr. Joe B. Eggen

Mr. Frank K. Eggleston

Mr. Paul Ehrenfest

Mr. Barry Eigen and Ms.
Kathleen D. Nolan

Mrs. Harriet J. Eiwen

Mr. David A. Elko

Mr. Don W. Elleman

Mr. Joseph H. Ellinwood

Mrs. Card G. Elliott, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Paul G. Ellis

Mr. William M. Ellis

Mr. and Mrs. Michael V.
Elsberry

Dr. and Mrs. William L. R.
Emmet III

Mr. and Mrs. Bradford
Endicott

Mr. Bernard Engel

Mrs. Olga M. Engel

Mr. and Mrs. Richard
England

Dr. Michael J. Epstein

Mrs. Jane M. Epstine

Mr. Michael Erlanger

Mr. Richard Ertenberg

Mr. and Mrs. A. C. Escalle

Mr. and Mrs. R. B. Estridge

Mr. Louis Euster

Mr. Donald Evans

Mr. Larry Evans

Miss Shirley M. Evans

Mr. W. M. Evans

Mr. J. C. Evans, Jr.

Mr. Douglas Evans, Jr.

Mr. Duane R. Fagg and Ms.
Helga B. Buerger

Mr. and Mrs. Francis W.
Farley

Farmers State Bank

Mr. and Mrs. Norman
Farquhar

Mr. Kit Farwell and Ms.
Marge Farwell

Mr. Robert N. Faust

Dr. and Mrs. Robert Feinberg

Mr. and Mrs. Jack K.
Feirman

Colonel J. J. Felmley

Ms. Susann D. Felton and
Mr. G. A. Esworthy

Dr. and Mrs. Lester M.
Felton, Jr.

Mrs. Rugeley Ferguson

Mr. and Mrs. William L.
Ferguson

Dr. Edward C. Ferguson III

Reverend H. A. Ferrell

Mr. Stanley M. Fertel

Mr. and Mrs. Hart Fessenden

Mr. James George Fidler

Mrs. Emily H. Fine

Dr. and Mrs. Herbert W.
Fingerhut

Ms. Janet A. Fink

Mr. and Mrs. M. Peter
Fischer

Mr. Henry Fisher

Mr. and Mrs. Robert B.
Fisher

Mr. C. H. Fitzgerald

Mr. Thomas A. Fitzgerald

Ms. Jane G. Flener

Mr. and Mrs. Richard E.
Fletcher

Mr. Peter A. Flihan, Jr.

Mr. Ted Flora

Mr. and Mrs. Robert H.
Flowers

Ms. Olivia Page Floyd

Mr. and Mrs. Paul Flum

Mr. Patrick Fly

Mr. and Mrs. Henry N.
Flynt, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. L. D. Follmer

Mr. Albert A. Folop

Colonel William J. Foody

Brigadier General Evelyn P.
Foote

Dr. R. P. Fornshell

Mr. William B. Forster

Ms. Suzanne Forsyth

Mrs. P. S. Fortunas

Mrs. Russell Fortune, Jr.

Mr. C. Herbert Foutz

Mrs. Richard L. Fowler

Mrs. Theodore V. Fowler III

Dr. and Mrs. Robert L. Fox

Mr. S. Fox

Mr. and Mrs. Anthony M.
Frank

Mrs. Brantley Vernon Frank

Franciscan Fathers

Betty A. Frankfather

Mr. Stephen P. Frazier

Ms. Mary M. Free

Dr. Robert G. Freeman

Mr. Scott Freer

Mrs. Marian M. Freese

Dr. Donald E. Frein

Mr. and Mrs. Donald B.
French

Mr. Andrew L. Frey

Mr. Henry D. Frey

Mr. and Mrs. T. E. Frey

Mr. and Mrs. Carl Friddle
Mr. Arnold S. Friedman

Ms. Wendy Frieman

Mr. Donald W. Friske

Mr. and Mrs. W. L. Fugate

Mr. Warren Fugate

Mr. Donald H. Fuhs

Mr. and Mrs. A. E. Fuller

Mrs. P. Fuller

Mrs. L. J. Futchik

Mr. William R. Gage

Dr. and Mrs. Edward E.
Gahres

Mrs. D. R. Gairing

Mr. Vernon M. Gale

Mr. FE. A. Gallagher

Mr. Thomas J. Galligan, Jr.

Mr. Frank L. Gambosh

Dr. and Mrs. R. Don
Gambrell, Jr.

Dr. and Mrs. Robert Ganelin

Mr. Clement E. Gardiner

Mr. and Mrs. Malcolm O.
Garfink

Mr. H. T. Garland, Jr.

Mr. John R. Garman

Mr. and Mrs. John Garney

Reverend Anne C. Garrison

Ms. Lucille H. Garton

Mr. and Mrs. Arthur
Gauthier

Miss Olga M. Gazda

Mr. A. F. Gegenheimer

Mr. J. Michael Geier

Mr. B. Geismar

Ambassador and Mrs.
Herbert D. Gelber

Mr. and Mrs. Henry Geller

Mr. Peter L. Geller

Dr. Byron A. Genner III

Mr. and Mrs. Stanley Georges

Mr. and Mrs. Arthur FE.
Gerding

Mr. Kurt H. Germann

Mr. and Mrs. Carl S. Gewirz

Mr. Richard P. Geye

Mr. and Mrs. John Ghiardi

Rear Admiral and Mrs.
Ralph M. Ghormley

Mr. and Mrs. A. Edward
Giberti

Dr. and Mrs. David M.
Gibson

Mr. Fred O. Gibson, Jr.

Mr. M. Gilberstadt

Mr. and Mrs. Lincoln J.
Gilbert

Mr. and Mrs. William W.
Gilbert

Ms. Nancy V. Giles

Ms. Julie Kempel Gilliam

Mr. Stanley C. Gillies

Mr. Joseph Gimpel

Mrs. Joan L. Gindes

Mr. and Mrs. Martin D.
Ginsburg

Mrs. D. J. Gladwin

Mr. Gilbert Glass

Mr. M. Glassman

Mr. and Mrs. Michael L.
Glassman

Mr. and Mrs. George W.
Gleim

Mrs. Charles C. Glover

Mr. and Mrs. John B.
Goering

Mr. James W. Goff

Mr. and Mrs. Paul N.
Gohdes

Mr. and Mrs. Fred T.
Goldberg

Mr. Leslie H. Goldberg

Mr. and Mrs. Raymond R.
Goldberg

Mr. James R. Golden

Mr. John Golden

Ms. Susan S. Goldman

Dr. Edwin G. Goldstein

Mr. Thomas W. Golway

Mr. Luis G. Gonzalez

Mr. R. L. Gooderl

Dr. S. Goodloe, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. James F.
Goodman

Mr. Stuart N. Goodman

Mr. and Mrs. James F.
Goodrich

Mrs. David Gordon

Dr. Kenneth P. Gorelick

Mr. David W. Gorham

Mr. Joel C. Gorick

Mr. James C. Gorman

Mr. and Mrs. Richard L.
Gorman

Dr. Richard E. Gorozdos

Mrs. Dorothy D. Goss

Captain Susan L. Gough

Mr. Ormond J. Gouin, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. William
Gouldsbury

Mr. James Gove

Mr. Richard L. Grabowski

Colonel and Mrs. Herbert
Graeser

Mr. Christian V. Graf

Miss Eunice Graham

Mr. S. Grandits

Mr. Harold D. Grant, Jr.

Mr. Gerald W. Grantham

Ms. C. Graton

Lieutenant General and Mrs.
Ernest Graves

Mrs. H. Brice Graves

Mrs. Mary Graves

Mr. William FE. Graves

Mr. John E. Gray

Mr. and Mrs. Richard E. Gray

Mr. and Mrs. Louis J.
Grayson

Dr. and Mrs. Henry D.
Green

Dr. and Mrs. Joseph E.
Green III

Mr. Edwin Greenberg

Mr. David J. Greenburg

Dr. M. Jean Greenlaw

Miss Joanne T. Greenspun

Mr. and Mrs. Mark
Greenwold

Mr. Frederick H. Grein, Jr.

Mr. Vilins G. Grencions

Mr. Gerhard R. Grieb

Mrs. James T. Griffin

Mrs. M. A. Grill

Mr. and Mrs. Ronald K.
Grimes

Mr. Donald O. Grimes, Jr.

Mr. Eugene W. Griner, Jr.

Mrs. Steele T. Griswold

Mrs. Helen Grossman

Mrs. Helen K. Groves

Mrs. Donald Gruhn

Mr. and Mrs. Victor W.
Gumper

Mrs. Helen W. Gunderson

Mr. Charlie E. Gunter III

Dr. and Mrs. Joseph I.
Gurfein

Mrs. Patricia Gusmer

Mr. W. R. Gustaferro

Mr. David L. Guthrie

Mr. and Mrs. Corbin
Gwaltney

Mr. and Mrs. Tom Gwaltney

Mr. and Mrs. Richard J.
Haayen

Mr. Charles P. Haber

Mr. and Mrs. Richard H.
Hagemeyer

Miss Elizabeth P. Hagen

Mr. Conrad R. Haglund

Mr. Philip J. Hahn

Mr. and Mrs. Richard G.
Hahn

Mr. and Mrs. Alexander S.
Haig

Mr. and Mrs. Philip D. Hale

Mr. and Mrs. Daniel T. Hall

Dr. John H. Hall, Jr.

Mr. Allen R. Halper

Mr. and Mrs. Samuel
Halpern

Mr. M. Hamada

Mr. and Mrs. Theodore M.
Hamady

Mr. Ronald K. Hamburger

Mr. Donald W. Hamer

Mrs. L. C. Hamilton

Mr. Robert A. Hamilton

Colonel and Mrs. William T.
Hamilton, Jr.

Mr. Jon G. Hammond

Mr. and Mrs. Ronald W.
Hamner

Mr. P. M. Hampton and Mr.
E. F Hampton

Mr. J. S. Handler

Mrs. Vincent S. Haneman

Ms. Dolly D. Hansen

Mr. and Mrs. Walter E.
Hansen

Mr. and Mrs. Angus A.
Hanson

Mrs. Kathryn W. Hanson

Mr. Charles C. Hansult and
Ms. Celia F. Kramer

Dr. and Mrs. John O.
Hardiman

Mr. William L. Hardison

Mr. and Mrs. Gordon A.
Hardy

Mr. and Mrs. James H.
Harger

Mr and Mrs Hardy
Hargreaves

Mr. John M. Harker

Mr. Jack R. Harlan

Dr. Robert A. Harper

Mrs. Lucy W. Harrell

207
Mrs. J. D. Harrington

Ms. Christie Harris

Mr. J. Arthur Harris

Mr. Joseph Harris

Ms. Mary L. Harris

Mr. and Mrs. Graham
Harrison

Mr. Frank C. Hart

Mr. John C. Hart

Mrs. Pauline Hart

Mrs. William D. Hart

Mr. Sid Harth

Mr. A. A. Hartley

Mr. and Mrs. Ernest B.
Hartley and Peggy J.
Hartley

Ms. Janet W. Hartley

Mr. P. W. Hartloff, Jr.

Dr. and Mrs. Herbert A.
Hartman, Jr.

Ms. Gertrude B. Hartmann

Mrs. W. M. Harwood

Mr. James E. Haskins

Ms. M. A. Hassett

Cynthia L. Hathaway

Mr. James R. Hathaway

Mrs. Audrey H. Hatry

Mr. Gordon B. Hattersley

Miss P. Haubold

Mrs. Robert A. Hauslohner

Mr. John C. Havens

Dr. and Mrs. Samuel B.
Haveson

Mrs. John C. Hawk, Jr.

Dr. Jeffrey W. Hawkins

Mr. and Mrs. Robert
Hawkins

Mr. Mones E. Hawley

Mr. and Mrs. James M.
Hawley III

Mrs. David Hayes

Mr. Robert E. Haynes

Major General H. I. Hayward

Mr. Kenneth C. Healy

Mr. Frank R. Heath

Mr. and Mrs. Edward A.
Hebda

Mr. and Mrs. John W.
Hechinger

Mr. and Mrs. Anthony E.
Hecht

Mr. Gordon E. Hed

Mr. and Mrs. Paul Heger

Ms. Patricia Heil

Mrs. D. E. Heimark

208

Mr. Landis C. Heistand

Captain and Mrs. Arthur A.
Helgerson

Mrs. Louis M. Hellman

Mr. James W. Hellwege

Mr. and Mrs. Helmut
Hellwig

Honorable and Mrs. Richard
Helms

Ms. Deborah W. Hemenway

Mr. Allyn B. Henderson

Mr. E. M. Hendrickson

Mr. W. D. Hendrickson

Mr. Willis M. Hengy

Ms. Ellen A. Hennessy

Miss Mildred Henninger

Mr. Robert A. Hennings

Mrs. W. Henrick Mrs. E.
Henriksen

Mrs. Douglas E. Henriques

Ms. Beverlee B. Henry

Mr. William E. Henry

Ms. Evelyn Herbert

Mr. Richard A. Herbert

Mr. Karl F. Herd

Mr. and Mrs. Michael
Herman

Ms. June Herrick

Mr. and Mrs. Jerry L. Herzog

Mr. Arnold L. Hespe

Dr. and Mrs. David C. Hess

Mrs. John L. Hess

Mr. Michael J. Hessell

Mr. and Mrs. John C.
Hester, Jr.

Mr. Barry R. Heuring

Mr. and Mrs. Richard F.
Hewett

Ms. Mary Jane Heyl

Mr. Donald R. Hibbert

Mrs. Laura E.. Hicks

Mrs. Elisabeth Higgins Null

Mrs. L. F. Higman

Mr. James S. Hill

Mr. and Mrs. Kenneth E. Hill

Mr. and Mrs. Stephen M. Hill

Mr. Wendell T. Hill

Mr. and Mrs. Roderick M.
Hills

Rear Admiral and Mrs.
Robert P. Hilton

Mr. J. Michael Hinchman

Miss Barbara N. Hines

Mrs. J. H. Hinkson

Dr. S. R. Hobgood

Ms. Roberta Hockman

Mr. Lorentz R. Hodges, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Jerome
Hoffman

Ms. Margaret M. Hoffman

Mr. and Mrs. C. H. Hogan

Mrs. Miriam S. Hogan

Brigadier General E. P.
Hoisington

Ms. Frances Holden

Dr. and Mrs. Raymond T.
Holden

Mr. Barton S. Holl

Mr. William M. Hollis, Jr.
and Dr. Andrea M.
Baldeck

Mr. Milton C. Holloman

Mr. J. W. Holloway

Mr. and Mrs. Franklin P.
Holman

Ms. Dorothy K. Holmberg

Ms. Evan C. Holstrom

Mr. and Mrs. James P. Hope

Mr. and Mrs. Gregory
Hopfer

Dr. and Mrs. Robert
Hopkins

Mr. Stephen Hopkins

Mr. William L. Hopkins

Ms. Ann Hopping

Mr. Thomas D. Horton

Mrs. Mary H. House

Mr. and Mrs. L. M. Howard

Mrs. Phyllis Kern Howe

Mr. Charles E. Hucks

Miss Nancy E. Hudson

Mrs. Hugo G. Huettig, Jr.

Mrs. Dean Huffman

Mr. Robert R. Hughes

Mr. Clarence L. Hulford

Mr. and Mrs. A. D. Hulings

Ms. Jean M. Hulme

Mr. William R. Humphrey

Ms. Suzanne Humpstone

Mr. Frank Hunsicker

Dr. and Mrs. James C. Hunt

Mr. and Mrs. Lowry W. Hunt

Ms. Nancy B. Hunter

Mrs. Sam E. Hunter

Mr. and Mrs. Sidney H.
Hurlburt

Mr. and Mrs. Carl R. Huss

Mr. Edward R. Husser

Ms. Maxine Hustead

Ms. Barbara A. Hutchinson

Captain and Mrs. George
Hutchinson

Mrs. J. E. Hutchinson

Judge Daniel H. Huyett III

Mrs. Avis C. Hyde

Mr. and Mrs. John L. Ingersoll

Mr. L. R. Inggels

Reverend R. M. Ireland

Mr. William Ireland, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Alfred Ireson

Mr. Clement I. Irons and
Ms. Dolores Irons

Mr. John E. Irons

Mr. George Irving

Miss Yoko Iwawaki

Mr. Gordon L. Jacks

Mr. Ben Jackson

Dr. and Mrs. John D. Jackson

Mr. Lynn E. Jackson

Mr. and Mrs. Donald Jacobs

Mr. Marlin L. Jacobs

Mr. and Mrs. Lawrence
Jacobsen

Mr. and Mrs. Hans Jacobson

Mr. and Mrs. John Jaeschke

Mr. and Mrs. William
Jagoda

Ms. Pamela A. Jamarik and
Mr. Charles R. Wallace

Ms. Kathryn James

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas C.
James

Dr. J. H. Jameson

Mr. L. C. Jamieson

Dr. Donald R. Janak

Mr. Richard J. Jarzabek

Mr. and Mrs. Frank R. Jeffrey

Mr. and Mrs. David G.
Jennings

Mr. Ludwig Jesselson

Mr. Richard A. Jewell

Mr. and Mrs. Douglas F. John

Mr. and Mrs. Bruce G.
Johnson

Ms. Carolyn R. Johnson

Mr. Harold R. Johnson

Mr. Robert R. Johnson

Mr. Woodrow C. Johnson

Mr. Alfred Jones

Mr. Brian L. Jones

Mr. and Mrs. Guy W. Jones

Mr. James E. Jones

Ms. Janet Lee Jones

Ms. Lillia M. Jones

Ms. Margaret E. Jones
Mr. Thomas O. Jones
Pat Jones Associates
Mr. W. S. Jones

Mr. William J. Jones
Mr. H. Lewis Jones III

Mr. and Mrs. John B. Jones, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. L. R. Jordan

Ms. W. Gertrude Josendal

Mr. and Mrs. Michael Joseph

Mr. A. Jossey-Bass

Mr. Maurice Jove

Mr. Arthur Jung, Jr.

Mr. Forrest L. Junod

Mrs. Rosemary Bonar Kabel

Mr. George W. Kahler

Mrs. Edmund J. Kahn

Mr. Eugene Kalbfleisch

Mr. FE. M. Kalenborn

Mr. John D. Kane

Mr. Steven Kaplan

Dr. and Mrs. Arnold Kaplin

Mr. Emanuel Karadimos

Ms. Maureen F. Karam

Mrs. A. Karbelnig

Dr. and Mrs. Richard A.
Kaslow

Captain William J. Kastner

Mr. and Mrs. Jack Katz

Dr. and Mrs. Nathan Katz

Mr. R. L. Katz

Mr. Mavis A. Kaufman

Mr. J. A. Kay

Dr. Phyllis Kayten and Mr.
Steven Weinstein

Mr. and Mrs. James P. Keane

Lieutenant Colonel Eugene
K. Keefe

Ms. Sheila A. Keefe

Mr. and Mrs. K. A. Keener

Captain and Mrs. William
Keller

Mr. Karl E. Kelley

Miss Ann S. Kelly

Ms. Jettie Kelly

Mrs. J. E. Kemper

Mr. and Mrs. George P.
Kendall, Jr.

Mrs. R. Grice Kennelly

Mr. and Mrs. David T.
Kenney

Mr. G. Dickson Kenney

Mrs. Anna Marie Kent

Mr. B. R. Kent

Ms. Betty J. Kenyon

Mr. William Keohane

Dr. and Mrs. Herbert D.
Kerman

Mr. and Mrs. Donald M. Kerr

Mr. and Mrs. James E. Kerr

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Kerr

Mr. and Mrs. R. D. Kester

Mr. and Mrs. Arthur H.
Keyes, Jr.

Mr. W. Ben Kibler

Mr. and Mrs. John Kicak

Mr. and Mrs. Lee A. Kidd

Dr. and Mrs. Thomas M.
Kiefer

Ms. Marjorie B. Kiewit

Dr. Kyumgsoo Kim

Mr. and Mrs. William R.
Kimball

Mrs. J. R. Kimberly

Dr. Robert Kimbrell

Mrs. Jeanette Kimmel

Mr. Edward J. King

Mrs. Garfield King

Mrs. Paul M. King

Mr. and Mrs. W. Griffin
King, Jr.

Ms. Mary E. Kingsland

Mr. and Mrs. Edward O.
Kinzie

Mr. Dan L. Kirby

Mr. Edward J. Kirby

Mr. and Mrs. Philip C. Kirby

Mr. E. J. Kirchman

Mr. Harry L. Kirkman

Mrs. S. Kirkparick

Mr. Lawrence Kirstein

Dr. James L. Kirtley, Jr.

Dr. Benjamin FE. Kitchen, Jr.

Mr. J. W. Klages

Mr. Kenneth W. Klein

Mr. Norman S. Klein

Ms. Rebecca Klemm

Mr. Klepsteen

Mrs. Dorothy L. Klock

Ms. Betty H. Klotz

Mr. L. S. Klotz

Mr. W. Knaus

Mrs. J. K. Knee

Mr. M. G. Knerr

Mr. and Mrs. William
Knight

Mrs. James H. Knowles

Mrs. E. Knowlton

Mr. and Mrs. Clarence T.
Knudsen

Mr. A. T. Knueppel

Mr. and Mrs. Robert J.
Koegel

Ms. Margie Koenig

Mr. and Mrs. Leonard R. Kojm

Mr. David Koller

Mr. and Mrs. E. L. Koning

Colonel George C. Konolige

Mr. Herbert J. Kopff

Mr. A. George Koplow

Mr. J. Koppelman

Dr. and Mrs. Marvin C.
Korengold

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas F.
Kosciuszko

Mr. and Mrs. Donald S.
Koskinen

Mr. Stanley Kottock

Mr. George Kovar

Dr. Robert Kovar

Mrs. Anna Kovasznay

Mr. G. D. Kovener

Dr. Kathy Koznek

Mr. Charles R. Kraus

Ms. Sandra R. Krawchuk

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph J.
Krebs, Jr.

Ms. Phyllis M. Kreeger

Mr. Irving Kreisberg

Mrs. Gloria I. Kreisher

Mr. and Mrs. William B.
Kremens

Mrs. Irene D. Kress

Mr. I. P. Krick

Mr. and Mrs. Nancy B.
Krieble

Mr. and Mrs. Michael A.
Kriss

Mr. V. J. Kriss

Miss Karen E. Krueger

Mrs. Leroy Krusi

Mrs. Jane M. Kuellmer

Ms. Elizabeth J. Kuen

Mrs. G. F. Kugler, Jr.

Dr. and Mrs. Max J. Kukler

Mr. and Mrs. Conrad E.
Kunkel

Dr. Edward A. Kure

Mrs. William O. Kurtz, Jr.

Dr. Jane Kurucz

Mr. Victor K. Kurylak

Miss Suzanne Kuser

Mr. Ellsworth Laboyteaux

Mr. and Mrs. Frank A. Ladd

Miss Martha Ladd

Mr. and Mrs. Herman R.
Ladenheim

Mrs. Patricia K. Lafferty

Mr. Richard D. Lake and
Ms. Sherry A. Cagnoli

Mr. and Mrs. James E.
Lamb, Jr.

Mrs. Richard T. Lambert

Dr. Robert M. Lambert

Mr. and Mrs. Frederick W.
Lamson

Mrs. Ernest A. Land

Mr. Ernest H. Land

Mrs. Hans A. Land

Dr. Emanuel Landau

Mr. and Mrs. Robert G.
Lander

Ms. Marilyn Brody Lane

Dr. Gilbert H. Lang

Mr. Gerald Langford

Colonel and Mrs. John V.
Lanterman

Mrs. Louis Lapi

Mr. and Mrs. Peter Larocca

Mr. and Mrs. Paul F. Larson

Ms. Ruth Larson

Dr. Ray Lash

Mr. Philip A. Lathrap

Mrs. J. W. Laughlin

Ms. Rose Mary Laur

Mr. Robert E. Laux

Mr. Denny Law

Dr. and Mrs. Noel Lawson

Dr. and Mrs. Ronald E. Leach

Mr. L. G. Leary

Mr. George Lee

Mr. and Mrs. Jack W. Lee

Mr. James A. Lee

Mr. T. C. Lee

Mr. and Mrs. M. Glen Leet

Mr. R. Lefcourt

Mrs. W. G. Lefevre

Mr. Edwin F. Legard

Mr. and Mrs. Edward
Lehman

Mr. Raymond A. Lehtinen

Ms. Ellen R. Leighton

Ms. Jeanne Lemmer

Mr. and Mrs. L. Gene Lemon

Mrs. Harry Lenart

Mr. Dwain L. Lengel

Mrs. Ethelynne H. Leonard

Ms. Eustacia P. Leone

Mrs. Lawrence S. Lesser

Mr. and Mrs. Philip J. Lesser

209
Mr. Daniel W. Leubecker

Mr. Jan T. Leung

Mr. Edgar L. Levenson

Mr. and Mrs. Edward H.
Levi

Mr. and Mrs. William B.
Levin, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Michael Levitt

Dr. Jerrold Levy

Mr. and Mrs. Lawrence Levy

Mr. and Mrs. Paul D. Lew

Mr. and Mrs. Baugh Lewis

Mr. and Mrs. Ernest E. Lewis

Mr. Garry Lewis and

Ms. Terry Proffitt

Ms. Irene R. Liebenberg

Mr. William F. Lieber

Mr. and Mrs. Peter
Liebesman

Mr. and Mrs. Robert G.
Liebhardt

Mrs. Francis Light

Mr. J. R. Limes

Mr. Wilbur Loren Lindholm

Miss Jane T. Lingo

Mr. Robert F. Lint

Mr. and Mrs. Rodney C.
Linton

Mr. and Mrs. Christopher
Lipsett and Ms. Missy
Lipsett

Mr. David H. Lipsey and
Ms. Dianne Chase Lipsey

Mr. Robert S. Lipsey

Mr. and Mrs. Robert J. List

Mr. Burton J. Litman

Mr. and Mrs. William O.
Lively

Mr. J. H. Livingston

Mrs. James Lloyd

Mrs. Pat Lockeby

Mrs. Dorothy P. Loeb

Dr. Arthur J. Loerzel

Mr. and Mrs. James E. Loesch

Mr. Pichon P. Loh

Mrs. Jane K. Lombard

Mr. and Mrs. John Q. Long

Mr. Walter H. Long, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Stephen Lorch

Mr. and Mrs. T. M. Louden

Mr. Homer B. Louya, Jr.

Mr. Robert B. Love

Mr. J. Loveless

Mrs. George E. Luce

Mrs. Sheldon R. Luce

210

Mr. Dave Henry Luders

Ms. Kary] Lufkin

Dr. and Mrs. Ronald R. Lund

Mr. and Mrs. Wilbur A.
Lunday

Mr. and Mrs. La Rue Lutkins

Mr. and Mrs. John L. Luttrell

Mrs. John E. Lutz III

Mr. and Mrs. Maurice B.
Lynch

Mr. T. Lynch

Mr. and Mrs. William Lynch

Miss I. T. Lynn

Mr. and Mrs. E. Phillip Lyon

Ms. Catherine M. Maar

Mr. and Mrs. Leonard Maas

Mr. P. E. MacAllister

Mrs. M. W. MacDermott

Dr. Gwen R. MacDonald

Mr. Neil R. MacDonald

Mr. Watson MacInnes

Mr. and Mrs. Steven A.
MacIntyre

Mr. and Mrs. Louis A.
MacKenzie

Mrs. John Macomber

Mr. and Mrs. Rex A. Maddox

Mr. and Mrs. Edward P.
Maffitt

Ms. Dolores M. Maidlow

Dr. and Mrs. Leslie D.
Major, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Dayton S. Mak

Mr. and Mrs. Bryant D.
Malcolm

Mr. and Mrs. Paul Maleter

Commander E. Malloy, Jr.

Lieutenant General and Mrs.
W. R. Maloney

Mr. and Mrs. Elli Malta

Mr. C. Conrad Manley

Mr. and Mrs. Daniel Mann

Mrs. E. B. Mann

Mr. and Mrs. Paul Mannes

Mrs. Sandra Alan Mannherz

Mr. and Mrs. George C.
Mansius

Mr. Charles Maraziti

Dr. and Mrs. Peter D.
Marbarger

Mrs. A. Marcelle

Mr. Eugene A. March

Mr. and Mrs. Paul Margus

Mr. Jack Mark

Ms. C. S. Markson

Mr. Kenneth S. Marsh

Mr. and Mrs. D. B. Marshall

Mr. Robert C. Marston

Dr. Diana Martin and Mr.
Frank Burgess

Mr. and Mrs. Guy R. Martin

Mr. and Mrs. John Cephas
Martin

Mr. and Mrs. Michael L.
Martin

Mr. S. T. Martin

Mr. and Mrs. James V.
Martin, Jr.

Mrs. Mildred H. Martindale

Mr. and Mrs. Arthur K.
Mason

Miss Priscilla Mason

Dr. Robert B. Matheny

Mr. Michael J. Matheron

Mrs. Elbert G. Mathews

Dr. and Mrs. M. Mathews

Mr. Charles R. Matlin

Mr. and Mrs. Larry Matre

Dr. Pam Matsuura

Captain Tyler R. Matthew,
USN Ret.

Mr. Charles Matthews

Mr. Winton E. Matthews, Jr.

Mr. Robert Mattox and Ms.
Johara H. Alatas

Mr. and Mrs. W. W. Maxey

Mr. and Mrs. George B.
Maxwell

Mr. Richard Mayborn

Lieutenant Colonel Mary J.
Mayer

Mr. and Mrs. Gerald Mayo

Mr. and Mrs. Harry W. Mazal

Dr. John E. Mazuzan, Jr.

Mr. James I. McAuliff

Mr. Kevin McAuliffe

Ms. Nancy M. McCabe

Mrs. Violet McCandlish

Ms. June W. McCarron and
Mr. Walter B. Lewis

Mr. James D. McClary

Dr. David C. McClure

Ms. Patricia McConnell

Mr. Michael McCormack

Dr. Marie C. McCormick

Mr. and Mrs. Michael
McCormick

Mrs. Anne B. McCourt

Dr. Catherine F McCoy

Mr. Emmett F. McCoy

Mr. John O. McCracken

Mr. Jack H. McCreery

Mr. Walter C. McCrone

Mr. Dale E. McDaniel

J. McDonald

Mr. and Mrs. John T.
McDonnell

Mrs. W. W. McDowell

Mr. Chester W. McElhoe

Mrs. Nan Tucker McEvoy

Ms. Elizabeth McFadden

Mr. W. A. McGaw

Dr. and Mrs. Morris G.
McGee

Mr. and Mrs. Fred S.
McGehee

Dr. and Mrs. T. W. McGill

Mrs. Nancy J. McGinness

Mr. William P. McGloin

Mr. John McGreevey

Mr. Howard L. McGregor, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. John McGuinn

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas A.
McGurk

Mr. Larry V. McIntire

Mr. John McIntosh

Mr. Thomas H. McIntosh

Mr. William F McKenna

Dr. J. W. McKibben

Mr. and Mrs. Albert P.
McKinney

Ms. Barbara I. McKissock

Mr. and Mrs. Wallace
McMartin

Mrs. S. McMullen

Mr. W. Hugh McNaughton

Mr. W. C. McNeal

Mr. George M. McNulty

Mr. and Mrs. James R.
McOwen

Mr. and Mrs. R. V.
McPherron

Mr. George W. McQueen

Miss C. McWilliams

Mr. and Mrs. C. P. Mead

Mr. James C. Meade

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Mears

Mr. and Mrs. B. E. Meditch

Mrs. Roberta V. Meek

Mr. Frank Meek, Jr.

Dr. Henry P. Meijer

Mr. and Mrs. Donald F. Mela

Mr. David B. Mellor

Mr. and Mrs. Dennis Mendyk

Mrs. Valere P. Menefee
Mr. Michael Mennucci

Mr. Leon A. Mensing

Mr. R. A. Meredith

Captain and Mrs. Robert H.
Mereness

Mrs. William H. Meroney

Mrs. Elena R. Merrick

Mr. R. K. Merrill, Jr.

Ms. Jean W. Merwin

Ms. Marilynn C. Metz

Mr. Gregor F. Meyer

Dr. and Mrs. R. A. Meyer

Mr. John J. Meyer III

Mr. Heary H. Meyer, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Samuel M.
Meyers

Mr. B. Jenkins Middleton
and Ms. Lydia B.
Middleton

Mr. W. W. Middleton

Ms. Grace Milgram

Dr. Alan G. Miller

Mr. Carroll L. Miller

Mr. Charles H. Miller

Mr. J. R. Miller

Mr. and Mrs. John L. Miller

Ms. Margaret A. Miller

Mr. Steven G. Miller

Captain and Mrs. Richard T.
Miller, USN

Mr. Lewis N. Miller, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Daniel M.
Millet

Mr. Damon FE. Mills

Mrs. George H. Milton

Mr. Dale B. Mirth

Dr. and Mrs. Michael H.
Mishkind

Mr. and Mrs. Donald M.
Mitchell

Colonel and Mrs. Robert O.
Mitchell

Mr. Walter W. Mitchell

Ms. Elizabeth Mitler

Mr. and Mrs. Stephen A.
Mondora

Mrs. Sarah D. Monk

Mr. E. E Monoscalco

Mr. M. R. Monroy

Mr. and Mrs. Richard
Montague

Mr. and Mrs. Robert M.
Montgomery

Mr. and Mrs. W. F.
Montgomery

Mr. and Mrs. Philip G. Moon

Mrs. Christel K. Moore

Mr. and Mrs. Richard H.
Moore

Mr. and Mrs. John H. Morava

Mr. Robert L. Morelli

Mrs. David Morgan

Mr. and Mrs. H. W. Morgan

Ms. Joyce Morgan

Mr. Shane Moriarity

Ms. Firth Morris

Mr. and Mrs. Hugh M. Morris

Mr. J. C. Morris

Ms. Rosanna Morris

Mr. William R. Morris

Mr. J. C. Morris, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. L. B. Morris, Jr.

Mr. Arthur R. Morse, Je.

Mr. Erik N. Mortensen

Mr. Tad Mosel

Dr. and Mrs. Samuel Moskow

Rear Admiral and Mrs.
Douglas F. Mow

Dr. and Mrs. Gary L. Mueller

Dr. J. Andrew Mulholland

Mr. and Mrs. Kenneth C.
Mundell

Mrs. Gail W. Munder

Mr. David C. Mundy

Mr. Gardner M. Mundy

Mr. Burnaby Munson

Mr. Don Murdock

Mr. and Mrs. James P.
Murphy

Mr. Robert FE Murphy

Mr. John M. Murray

Mr. and Mrs. E. H. Muschlitz

Mr. Robert C. Musser

Mr. and Mrs. James Myles

Mr. Raymond R. Myslivy

Mr. Normand O. Nadeau

Mr. Andrew Najberg

Mrs. Stephen H. Nash

Mr. George Nassauer

Dr. Robert C. Nataloni

Mr. David N. Neal

Mr. Robert H. Neff

Mr. George E. Nelson

Mr. and Mrs. Lawrence L.
Nelson

Mr. and Mrs. Andrew K.
Ness and Dorothy R. Ness

Mr. Conley W. Ness

Mr. and Mrs. Paul W.
Neuenschwander

Mr. and Mrs. Harry O.
Neukomm

Mrs. Frances Newman

Mr. and Mrs. Palmer E.
Newman

Mr. W. E. Newman

Lieutenant Colonel Arthur
Newton

Mr. and Mrs. Kenneth E.
Nicholl

Mr. William L. Nicholls II

Mr. Hugh M. Nicol

Dr. Orville F. Nielsen

Ms. Vinatta Nigals

Dr. and Mrs. Thomas P.
Nigra

Dr. and Mrs. Earl W. Niles

Mrs. Elizabeth A. Noble

Mr. and Mrs. Robert A. Noe

Mr. and Mrs. Roger M.
Nolan

Mr. and Mrs. Carl F. Norden

Dr. Maurice J. Norman

Dr. Patricia F Norman

Mrs. Nanna M. Norrington

Mr. and Mrs. John W.
Norris, Jr.

Mrs. John Norton

Ms. Kim Golan Norton

Mr. James F. Noss

Mr. and Mrs. David P. Notley

Mr. Ernest C. Nott

Mr. Milton G.
Nottingham, Jr.

Mr. Walter J. Novak

Mrs. Dorothy Nubel

Mr. and Mrs. Francis R.
Nullet

Mr. George Nye

Ms. Eileen O’Brien

Mr. John A. O’Brien

Mr. J. E. O'Connell

Mr. Robert E. O’Connell

Mr. and Mrs. Denis T.
O'Sullivan

Mr. Edward J. Obert, Jr.

Dr. and Mrs. Robert W.
Oblath

Ms. Marvis J. Oehm

Mr. Robert S. Oelman

Mrs. Edward Ogle

Dr. S. W. J. Ogush

Mr. W. G. Ohde

Ms. Helen L. Ohler

Dr. and Mrs. G. Charles
Oliver

Mr. Sam R. Olsen

Mr. Richard Omohundro

Mr. and Mrs. Oliver Lloyd
Onion

Mr. Peter Oppmann

Mr. and Mrs. Guy H. Orcutt

Mr. Martin B. Ortlieb

Mr. Lee K. Osborne

Mr. and Mrs. David Osnos

Mrs. James C. Otis

Dr. Betty Ann Ottinger

Mr. and Mrs. Fred Ottoboni

Dr. Robert J. Ottoboni

Mr. James C. Overholt

Mr. Joseph H. Owen

Mr. Joseph H. Owens

Mr. J. C. Pace

Mrs. A. N. Pack

Dr. and Mrs. Eugene F. Pack

Mr. and Mrs. Gerald W.
Padwe

Mr. and Mrs. James A.
Painter

Mr. William A. Palm

Mr. Donald K. Palmer

Mrs. Ralph A. Palmer

Dr. John R. Pancella

P. Panchal

Dr. J. E Paquet

Mr. Frank C. Parcell

Commander and Mrs.
Everett A. Parke

Mr. Richard W. Parks

Mrs. Grace M. Parr

Mr. and Mrs. H. Parsons

Dr. and Mrs. J. R. Parsons

Ms. Mabel Parsons

Mrs. George E. Parsons, Jr.

Mr. R. F. Paschal, Jr.

Mr. Jerry Pasek

Colonel Kenneth W. Patrum

Mr. Geoffrey L. Patton

Mr. and Mrs. Ralph K.
Patton

Mr. and Mrs. Willard J.
Patty, Jr.

Miss Ruth Uppercu Paul

Mr. B. R. Paulsen

Mr. Benjamin C. Payne

Mr. and Mrs. E. George
Pazianos

Ms. Sylvia L. Pearson

Mr. and Mrs. John R. Peaslee

211
Mr. C. L. Pecchenino

Dr. and Mrs. Ben M.
Peckham

Mr. Michael Peetz

Dr. Rodney Pelton

Mr. Edmund Pendleton

Mr. and Mrs. William C.
Penick

Mr. Clarence Pennington

Ms. Vanice A. Perin and Mr.
Donald E. Carlson

Mr. Bernard J. Perini

Mr. Alan L. Perkins and
Mrs. Barbara L. Bonessa

Mr. and Mrs. Warren A.
Perkins

Mr. and Mrs. F. Alan Perlberg

Mr. and Mrs. Michael
Perlberg

Ms. Dorothy F. Perry

Mr. Gene Perry

Mr. James P. Perry

Mrs. Horace W. Peters

Mr. and Mrs. David W.
Peterson

Mr. Donald M. Peterson

Mr. George W. Peterson

Mrs. Irene E. Peterson

Mrs. Harold S. Pettit

Mr. Cliff Pfaff

Mr. and Mrs. D. G. Pfoutz, Jr.

Mr. A. Phillips Mrs. W. R.
Phillips

Mr. E. Chilton Phoenix

Miss Mary Jane Pickthall

Mr. Patrick Kent Pierce

Mr. and Mrs. William H.
Pierson, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Laurence B.
Pike

Mr. and Mrs. William Piper

Mr. and Mrs. Ronald G.
Piskork

Mrs. P. E. Pitts

Ms. Elinor Plimack

Ms. Diane J. Plotts

Mr. and Mrs. Welch Pogue

Mr. and Mrs. Robert L.
Pollard

Mrs. Donald T. Pomeroy

Mr. Robert D. Pomeroy

Mr. Leroy Poole

Mr. Daniel B. Pope

Ms. Janice Popp

212

Mr. and Mrs. Dwight J.
Porter

Dr. Reno R. Porter

Ms. V. A. Porter

Mr. and Mrs. Ben Porto

Mrs. Sandra A. Potter

Mr. R. D. Potts

Mr. and Mrs. Steven E. Potts
and Shirley C. Potts

Dr. and Mrs. William F.
Pounds

Mr. and Mrs. Franklin E.
Powell

Mr. Robert E. Pownall

Mr. Richard L. Prager

Ms. Fletcher Pratt

Mr. A. Price

Mrs. Charles P. Price

Dr. Robert E. Price

Dr. and Mrs. Jerold
Principato

Mr. Harold Prindle

Mr. and Mrs. Charles J.
Prizer

Ms. Gloria Prochaska

Mr. and Mrs. John E. Purcell

Mr. and Mrs. Vincent
Puritano

Mr. L. A. Putten

Ms. Marian L. Pyle

Mr. W. M. Quackenbush

Mr. J. Raben

Colonel and Mrs. Robert S.
Rabinowitz

Mr. and Mrs. Charles Anton
Rademaker

The Radloff Family

Mr. and Mrs. Coleman
Raphael

Mr. William Rapp, Jr.

Miss Ann Rasche

Mr. Philip Ratcliffe

Rear Admiral and Mrs. R.
A. Ratti

Mr. Richard W. Raver

Mr. W. Ray

Ms. J. Raymond

Mr. and Mrs. Lawrence Raz

Ms. Isabel M. Rea

Ms. Ivy Reade

Ms. Patricia Reardon

Mr. F. R. Rebsamen

Mr. and Mrs. Ralph H.
Redford

Ms. Vivien G. Redman and
Mr. Lipman Redman

Mr. Atlee J. Reeb

Ms. Roslynne Reed

Mr. William A. Reed

Mr. John W. Reeder

Mr. Rollin M. Reeder

Mrs. R. C. Reeve

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Reeves

Mr. Rodney D. Reeves

Ms. Mary Jo Refermat

Reverend Douglas Regin

Mrs. Jan Regulski

Mrs. Charlotte Rehberg

Ms. Carol A. Reichgut

Mr. and Mrs. John C. Reid

Mrs. Joan Reilly

Mr. Lawrence F. Reinalter

Mr. Nathan Reiskin

Mr. Paul A. Renard

Mrs. Edwin F. Rensler

Mr. and Mrs. J. C. Reynierse

Mr. Don F. Reynolds

M. B. Reynolds

Mr. Frank C. Reynolds, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. John V. Rhoads

Mr. James E. Rhodes

Mr. R. L. Rhodes, Jr.

Miss Kathleen Ribaudo

Mr. and Mrs. Jerry M. Rice

Dr. Arthur L. Rich

Mr. G. R. Rich

Dr. Manny Rich

Mr. Howard B. Rich, Jr.

Mr. E. Jerome Richards

Mrs. R. M. Richardson

Mrs. Ralph Richardson

Mrs. W. S. Richardson

Ms. Melissa J. Richens

Miss B. A. Richmond

Mr. Charles Rick

Mr. Daniel M. Ricker, Jr.

Miss Rozanne L. Ridgway

Mr. Roland Rieder

Mr. Richard D. Rife

Mr. M. M. Rifkin

Dr. J. Jerome Rinaldi

Miss Marilyn Rising

Mr. and Mrs. John O.
Rittenhouse

Ms. Jeanne Robb

Mr. Laurence A. Robbins

Mr. and Mrs. Chalmers M.
Roberts

Ms. Diane Robertson

Mrs. Grace Robinowitz and
Mr. Donald Dody

Ms. Jean Robins

Mr. and Mrs. FE. L. Robinson

Mrs. Richard Rodgers

Mrs. Sue A. Rodgers

Ms. Nydia Rodriguez

Mr. S. Rodriguez

Mr. O. Roeder

Mr. and Mrs. Albert K.
Roehrig

Mr. Dietrich Roesler

Mr. Scott Roeth

Ms. Bonnie M. Rogers

Mr. J. E Roland

Ms. Mimi Rolland

Ms. I. Romero

Dr. Barbara Roop

Mrs. H. D. Root

Mrs. M. Elaine Roschman

Mr. Daniel M. Rose

Mr. and Mrs. John M. Rose

Dr. and Mrs. Quentin Rose

Mr. and Mrs. Raymond T.
Rose

Mr. Sam D. Rose

Mr. and Mrs. Robert
Rosenthal

Mr. and Mrs. David W. Ross

Dr. Mitchell Neal Ross

Dr. S. Rossello

Mr. and Mrs. Howard W.
Rosser

Dr. James A. Roth

Mrs. M. W. Roth

Ms. Janice K. Rothlauf

Mrs. Elizabeth D. Rott

Mr. John W. Rottler

Dr. James A. Rourke

Mr. and Mrs. Josiah P. Rowe

Mr. and Mrs. James M.
Rowley

Mr. Raymond E. Royse, Jr.

Mr. Charles Rozier

Mr. B. Cecil Rubin

Mr. Robert M. Rubin

Dr. Philip Rubovits-Seitz
and Dr. Randi
Rubovits-Seitz

Mr. and Mrs. Frank L.
Rugani

Mr. Lawrence A. Ruh

Mr. and Mrs. Arthur R. Rule

Mr. Tim Rullman

Mr. J. W. Runyon, Jr.
Dr. Edward C. Ruth

Mr. William A. Rutter

Mrs. Bennett Y. Ryan, Sr.

Dr. Stephen K. Rymer

Ms. Lorraine L. Sabo

Dr. H. Pagan Saez

Mr. Lou Sakell

Mr. and Mrs. Richard H. Salz

Lieutenant Colonel John R.
Sammons

Mr. Steve C. Samuelson

Mrs. Ellen L. Samz

Ms. Mickey W. Sanborn

Dr. Janice E. Sanders

Mr. Nilo M. Santiago

Mrs. Stanley J. Sarnoff

Mr. and Mrs. Theodore
Sawick

Ms. Alice E. Sayre

Mr. Francis B. Sayre

Mr. James P. Scannell

Mr. Ernst M. Schaefer

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas R.
Schafer

Mr. and Mrs. Charles W.
Schaffer, Jr.

Mr. R. Scheffler

Mrs. Robert S. Scheu

Mr. Wayne Schieber

Mr. and Mrs. J. Vincent
Schlegel

Dr. and Mrs. S. P. Schmal

Mr. and Mrs. H. L. Schmelzer

Mr. and Mrs. Eugene R.
Schnabel

Miss Marguerite V.
Schneeberger

Ms. Margaret M. Schneider

Mrs. Debra C. Schoenstein

Dr. Leonard Schreier

Mr. and Mrs. David E.
Schroeder

Mr. and Mrs. J. Schroeder

Mrs. Janet Schroeder

Mr. Donald Schuder

Mr. John C. Schuldt

Mr. and Mrs. Martin L.
Schulman

Ms. R. C. Schumann

Mr. Robert Schwaner

Dr. Edward H. Schwarz

Mr. B. Elmo Scoggin

Mr. Frank Scott

Mr. and Mrs. Robert M. Scott

Ms. Diane L. Scudder

Mr. Robert FE. Scudder

Mr. David C. Searey

Dr. Mary E. Sears

Mr. and Mrs. Richard E.
Seidell

Mr. Steve Mary Seidlitz

Mrs. St Clare Seifert

Ms. Sarahelen Selby

Mrs. Ruth O. Selig

Mr. and Mrs. Harold J.
Selinsky

Mr. Donald Sell

Mrs. Catherine H. Sells

Mr. Paul C. Seltman

Dr. Mary Ann Sens

Mr. R.N. Setlur and Ms. N.
Setlur

Ms. Catharine Seybold

Mrs. Polly Shackleton

Ms. Elaine G. Shafrin

Mrs. H. Shambaugh

Mr. Kevin E. Shanahan

Mr. and Mrs. Philip H.
Sharpe

Ms. Barbara W. Shaw

Captain Mary E. Shaw

Dr. Daniel L. Shaw, Jr.

Mrs. Petrena A. Shea

Ms. Marion Sheehan

Ms. Kate M. Sheehy

Mr. and Mrs. Allen C.
Sheldon

Mr. Peter L. Sheldon

Mr. and Mrs. Charles C.
Shelleman, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. George E.
Sherman

Ms. Lynne Sherwood

Ms. Virginia Sherwood

Miss Katherine Shilling

Mr. Rufus Shivers

Mr. Albert D. Shmutzer

Mr. and Mrs. Jack C. Shnider

Mrs. Ross K. Shoolroy

Mr. and Mrs. R. C. Shorb

Mr. and Mrs. Felix F. Shore

Mr. Robert H. Short

Mss. S. C. Shortlidge, Jr.

Mr. Roy Shrobe

Mr. Harley F. Shuford, Jr.

Mr. Dana H. Shultz

Mr. Ken Shuman

Lieutenant General and Mrs.
Philip D. Shutler, USMC

Ms. Martha F. Siccardi

Mr. W. R. Sieben

Mr. and Mrs. Irving H. Siegel

Mr. Carl F. Sielaff, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Robert W.
Siler, Jr.

Mr. Russell L. Sill

Dr. Lester P. Silverman

Colonel and Mrs. Robert L.
Simmons

Mr. and Mrs. Erwin S. Simon

Mr. and Mrs. Michael E.
Simon

Mr. Raymond Simon

Miss Alice H. Simpson

Mr. and Mrs. Joe L. Singer

Mr. Richard Singer

Mr. Lorenzo Dow Singleton,
Je.

Mrs. Isabel G. Sked

Dr. and Mrs. Raymond A.
Skeehan

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Skold

Mrs. Eileen S. Slack

Mr. Thomas B. Sleeman

Mr. John Sleeter

Mr. and Mrs. Paul Slezak

Mr. Richard P. Slivka

Dr. H. Sloan

Mr. Richard C. Sloan

Mrs. Walter W. Slocum

Mr. Charles E. Slonaker

Mr. and Mrs. Leon Sloss

Mr. George E. Slye

Miss Anne Smalet

Mr. Karl M. Small

Mr. and Mrs. Cecil Smith

Mr. Charles H. Smith

Mr. Dean B. Smith

Dr. J. T. Smith and Ms.
Patricia C. Smith

Ms. Janet S. Smith

Mr. Joseph C. Smith Mrs. L.
Smith

Ms. Luella A. Smith

Mr. Malcolm A. Smith

Mrs. Witham Smith

Mr. and Mrs. James F.
Smith, Jr.

Mr. W. Tilford Smith, Jr.

Mr. Michael L. Smithson

Mr. and Mrs. Harold L.
Smock

Mr. Howard F. Smothers

Mr. T. Snider

Dr. George E. Snider, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. W. K. Snouffer

Mr. John B. Snyder

Mr. John B. Snyder

Mr. and Mrs. William B.
Snyder

Mr. and Mrs. Norman Solat

Mr. David Solo

Mr. William H. Somerville

Honorable and Mrs. Soren C.
Sommerfelt

Mr. Stephen Sondheim

Lieutenant Colonel Irene M.
Sorrough

Ms. Lynn A. Soukup

Mrs. Frank E. Spain

Mr. George R. Spall

Mr. and Mrs. John L. Sparks

Mr. H. Speer

Mr. Mark Speizer

Ms. Charlotte Spence

Mr. Harry H. Spence

Mrs. C. M. Spilman, Jr.

Mr. Fred Spinder

Mr. Michael G. Spishock

Mr. and Mrs. Richard Splitter

Mrs. J. E. Sponseller

Mr. and Mrs. William H.
Spooner

Mrs. J. Spurlock

Mr. Omer FE Spurlock

Mr. Franklin M. St John

Mr. Richard Stackpole

Mr. James R. Stadler

Ms. Virginia Stainton

Mrs. G. W. Stanford

Mr. and Mrs. Marvin N.
Stanford

Mr. William R. Stanmeyer

Mrs. Carl W. Stapleton

Mr. F. J. Stastny

Ms. Cynthia V. Stauffacher

Mr. and Mrs. Ralph C. Stayer

Mr. and Mrs. W. R. Stealey

Mr. and Mrs. Frederick R.
Stebbins

Mr. Vincent S. Steckline

Mr. Simon Steely

Mr. William R. Stehle

Mr. and Mrs. John M.
Stemmons

Mr. and Mrs. William L.
Stenger

Mr. and Mrs. Charles R.
Stephan

Dr. Peter J. Stephens

213
Mrs. Shanda Stephenson

Ms. Abigail Sterling

Mr. Bruce B. Sterling

Mr. and Mrs. Carleton W.
Sterling

Mr. Douglas D. Sterling

Mr. and Mrs. William
Sternfeld

Mr. and Mrs. Edwin L.
Stevens

Mr. Jay Stevens

Dr. Roland E. Stevens

Ms. Suzanne E. Stevens and
Mr. Leon D. Silverman

Mrs. Fanny B. Stewart

Mr. and Mrs. Frank H.
Stewart

Mr. Robert E. Stewart

Mr. and Mrs. Terence P.
Stewart

Mr. and Mrs. Eugene P.
Stichman

Mr. and Mrs. Richard W.
Stickell

Mr. M. Stiker

Mr. Daniel W. Stillwell

Mr. and Mrs. Glen E. Stillwell

Dr. and Mrs. Walter L.
Stilson

Mr. and Mrs. John E.
Stinchfield

Mr. and Mrs. Robert L.
Stober

Mr. and Mrs. Frank A.
Stocking

Mr. and Mrs. Tom Stoever

Ms. Lois Stokes

Mr. and Mrs. Dennis W.
Stolldorf

Mr. Robert A. Stone

Mr. and Mrs. Shepard B.
Stone

Mr. and Mrs. John Strachan

Mr. R. P. Straetz

Mr. and Mrs. E. A. Straker

Dr. and Mrs. George
Straley, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. S. Tudor Strang

Dr. Paul Strassburger

Mr. and Mrs. Richard H.
Stratton

Mr. Henry Strong

Mr. David G. Stuart and Ms.
Dale G. Stuart

Mr. Douglas Stuart

214

Mrs. H. B. Stuck

Dr. Ann D. Stuckey

Dr. and Mrs. J. M. Sudarsky

Mr. and Mrs. Steven C.
Suddaby

Mrs. A. C. Sulerud

Mr. and Mrs. Basil A. Sullivan

Mr. Ed Sullivan

Dr. M. P. Sullivan

Mr. Vincent M. Sullivan

Mr. Paul L. Sulsky

Mr. John Sutch

Mr. David M. Swan

Ms. Patricia S. Swaney

Mr. and Mrs. Harold E.
Sweeney

Ms. Mary R. Swicegood

Mrs. Phelps H. Swift

Mr. Albert L. Symonds

Ms. Anne E. Tait

Mr. J. R. Tallentire

Mr. Donald J. Tamulonis

Mr. Darrell G. Tangman

Ms. Nancy Tarsitano and Dr.
Michael Drake

Mr. John B. Tavano

Mr. J. Taylor

Mr. James D. Taylor

Mr. John Taylor

Master Sergeant Robyn D.
Taylor

Mr. Rowan H. Taylor

Mr. W. H. Taylor

Mr. Harry Tecklenburg

Mrs. R. Teerlink

Mr. Roy Teramoto

Mr. Norman R. Thal, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Harper Thayer

Mr. Alan Thebert

Thiry Foundation

Mr. Edmund Thomas

Dr. F. Joseph Thomas

Mr. and Mrs. Holcombe H.
Thomas

Dr. James Thomas

Ms. Marcia A. Thomas

Ms. Marjorie E. Thomas

Mr. and Mrs. Donald K.
Thompson

Captain and Mrs. Edgar K.
Thompson

Mr. and Mrs. Edward L.
Thompson

Mrs. Frank L. Thompson

Ms. Roberta Thompson

Mr. John A. Thompson, Jr.

Dr. S$. K. Thomson

Mr. and Mrs. D. H.
Thomson, Jr.

Mrs. Veronica Thorp

Mr. Paul Thran

Mr. R. T. Throckmorton

Mr. and Mrs. Robert P. Tibor

Ms. Barbara L. Tierney

Mrs. L. E. Tierney

Dr. and Mrs. George Tievsky

Mr. and Mrs. C. L. Tillman III

Miss Catherine Tinkham

Mr. H. Titchell

Mr. Hartley K. Todee

Ms. Paula Lynne Todrin

Mr. C. Tofte

Ms. Rosalie Toko

Mr. Toshio Tokunaga

Mrs. Araks V. Tolegian

Mr. Leroy M. Tolman

Mr. and Mrs. J. Robert
Tomlinson

Mrs. Marjorie M. Tooker

Mr. Farrell C. Toombs

Mr. and Mrs. Louis A.
Townsend

Mr. and Mrs. Wilbur L.
Townsend

Mr. and Mrs. F. Gerald Toye

Honorable and Mrs. Russell
E. Train

Mr. and Mrs. Francis R.
Trainor

Mr. Anthony Tralla

Mr. John H. Transue

Mr. Edmond R. Tremblay

Mr. T. Trickett

Mr. and Mrs. Bryan
Troutman

Mr. and Mrs. R. Brian
Tsujimura

Mr. Ernst H. Tuenge, Jr.

Mr. Robert L. Tull

Ms. Eva F. Tully

Mr. W. T. Turso

Mr. and Mrs. William S.
Turwiler

Ms. Evelyn Twigg-Smith

Mr. Glenn A. Ulrich

Mr. Donald Usher

Mr. T. Uyesugi

Mrs. C. W. Valencourt, Jr.

Mr. J. H. Valentine

Mr. Robert Vallier

Mr. Ray E. Van Alstine

Mrs. Richard C. Van Dusen

Dr. Paul Van Fossen

Mr. and Mrs. Carl FE Van
Haeften

Ms. Caroline E. Van Mason

Mr. Robert FE. Van Voorhees

Mr. Ernest Vargas

Ms. Sally M. Vargas

Mr. Edward W. Varnum

Mr. and Mrs. Armen
Varterssian

Mr. Samuel M. Vauclain III

Mr. and Mrs. James G.
Vaughter

Mrs. Franklin Veatch

Mr. Mark Veca

Mr. Emilio Jose Venegas

Ms. Natalie D. Venneman

Mr. Richard Venning

Mr. and Mrs. James L.
Ventura

Mr. Henry G. Vermillion

Mrs. Harold E. Vettel

Ms. Kathryn S. Vierra and
Mr. William A. Jarrett

Dr. John J. Vill

Mr. and Mrs. Charles Villa

Mr. Victor J. Villone

Dr. M. C. Vincent

Mr. and Mrs. Raymond D.
Vinick

Ms. Jacquelyn E. Vinson

Mr. Donald J. Vitale and Ms.
Nancy Ronsheim

Mr. and Mrs. Peter R. Voll

Mrs. Valma A. Von Holt

Mr. Henry and Mary Von
Schreiner

Ms. Florence E. Voorhees

Mr. and Mrs. Gerard J.
Vyskocil, Jr.

Ms. Jill R. Wade

Ms. M. G. Waggoner

Mr. W. A. Waggoner

Mr. David H. Wagner

Mr. Bert Waldstein

Mr. and Mrs. James N.
Wallace

Mr. Wayne D. Walling

Mr. and Mrs. Frank S.
Walters

Mr. and Mrs. Robert W.
Walton

Dr. Alan B. Wambold
Mrs. A. T. Warder

Mr. and Mrs. Robert B.
Wareheim

Mr. and Mrs. Seth L. Warfield

Mr. and Mrs. C. Grant
Warner

Mr. Ernest W. Warner

Mr. and Mrs. George E.
Warner

Mr. John Warner

Mrs. Wanda A. Washburn

Mr. and Mrs. Paul
Wasserman

Mr. B. Y. Wat

Miss Eva Watkins

Captain Jack E. Watson

Dr. Sandra S. Watson

Mr. and Mrs. Alvin D. Wax

Mr. H. Wayne Weagly

Mr. and Mrs. John E. Weaver

Mrs. Sylvia B. Weaver and
Mr. Kenneth R. Damon

Mr. V. Phillips Weaver

Mr. William H. Webb

Mr. and Mrs. Glyn H.
Webber

Ms. Elizabeth Weedon

Mr. John S. Wehrle

Mr. and Mrs. Edward
Weinberg

Mrs. Marjorie Weinberg

Dr. Jon L. Weingart

Mr. and Mrs. Eric W.
Weinmann

Mr. and Mrs. Herman W.
Weinreich

Dr. H. Weintraub

Mr. Edgar V. Weir

Ms. Fay L. Weirich

Ms. Jean M. Weis

Mr. Leonard W. Weis

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph A.
Weiss

Dr. Joseph F. Weiss

Mr. and Mrs. Charles Weitzel

Dr. Arnold D. Welch and
Ms. Erika P. Welch

Mr. Douglas F. Welebir

Mr. Charles E. Wells

Mr. John L. Welsh

Ms. Lucille Wendt

Mr. and Mrs. P. A. Wentz

Ms. Barbara K. Werner

Mr. Gerald L. Werner

Mr. Stuart L. Werner

Captain J. H. Wesson,
USN Ret.

Mr. and Mrs. James T. West

R. A. West

Miss Hilda Wexler

Mr. and Mrs. William
Wharton

Dr. M. Barnes Whitacre

Ms. Barbara W. Whitaker

Mr. and Mrs. Peter C. White

Ms. Rita L. White

Mr. David R. White, Jr.

Ms. J. Whitehead

Dr. John P. Whiteley

Mr. Dale A. Whiteside

Mr. E. C. Whitney

Whitney Foundation

Mrs. Mary S. Wicker

Ms. Elizabeth J. Wiggans

Dr. and Mrs. Herman S.
Wigodsky

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph M.
Wikler

Dr. and Mrs. U. V. Wilcox III

Mrs. Vivian Wildman

Mr. E. N. Wilkins

Mr. and Mrs. J. Burke
Wilkinson

Mrs. Gladys E. Willard

Mr. Andrew W. Williams

Ms. Betty M. Williams

Mr. and Mrs. John M.
Williams

Mr. and Mrs. Larry Williams

Mrs. Wanda Rees Williams

Mr. and Mrs. Kenneth R.
Williams, Jr.

Major General and Mrs. Ellis
W. Williamson

Mr. Meade Willis, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. W. Cooper
Willits

Ms. Jean M. Willkom

Mr. Charles F. Willner

Mr. William F. Willner

Mr. and Mrs. Harvey
Wilmeth

Mr. Edward Wilson

Mr. Hugh H. Wilson

Mr. Lowell Wilson

Mr. and Mrs. Perkins Wilson

Mr. Peter Wilson

Dr. and Mrs. Richard B.
Wilson

Mrs. W. Wesley Wilson

Captain Lucille A. Wilson,
Ret.

Mr. F. A. Wilson, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Roger H.
Wingate

Mr. Donald R. Winslow

Dr. Margaret C. Winston

Mr. John Winters

Ms. Joan S. Wirig

Mr. James D. Wirt

Mr. Robert Wissoker

Mr. and Mrs. Walter C.
Witte

Dr. Raymond R. Wittekind

Mr. Phelps Witter, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. William W.
Wittie

Mr. David L. Wittle

Ms. Linda Wohl

Mr. and Mrs. Leland A. Wolf

Mr. and Mrs. William T.
Wolf

Mr. Carl F. Wolfe

Mr. J. Wolfgang, Jr.

Mrs. Harry E. Wolfson

Mr. Gary L. Wollenzien

Mr. Marvin Womack

Mr. Gary S. Wong

Mr. and Mrs. Stanton Wong

Mr. David L. Wood

Dr. Thomas P. Wood

Dr. Helen Woodard

Mrs. Margaret Y. Woodbridge

Mr. Baird Woodcock

Mr. John Woodruff

Mr. Marshall D. Woods

Mr. H. Woodward

Mrs. W. T. Wooley

Mr. David M. Wright

Mrs. Harriet A. Wright

Dr. Reverdy E. Wright

Mrs. Mona Wu

Mr. Philip D. Yaney

Mrs. Dolores R. Yanover

Mr. Charles Yarbrough

Mr. John Yeomans

Mr. and Mrs. Albert T.
Young

Dr. and Mrs. Gerald D.
Young

Miss Jane B. Young

Dr. and Mrs. Keith Young

Mr. L. J. Young

Mr. and Mrs. Daniel K.
Young, Jr.

Ms. Jean R. Youtsey

Mr. and Mrs. William A.
Zachary, Jr.

Ms. Shereen Zakauddin

Mr. and Mrs. Howard M.
Zaritsky

Dr. and Mrs. Berton
Zbar

Mr. and Mrs. Fred M.
Zeder

Colonel Frank J. Zeller

Dr. and Mrs. Robert
Zeppa

Mrs. E. Zimmerman

Mr. and Mrs. Edwin
Zimmerman

Dr. and Mrs. Don B.
Ziperman

Dr. Richard L. Zizza

Ms. Patricia Zlotin

Mr. Louis I. Zorensky

Dr. and Mrs. M. J. Zukel

215
216

Financial Report

Nancy D. Suttenfield, Chief Financial Officer

Introduction

The Smithsonian Institution receives funding from both federal ap-
propriations and nonappropriated trust funds. Federal appropriations
are the primary source of operating funds to address the Institution's
fundamental responsibilities in caring for and conserving the national
collections, sustaining basic research on the collections and in selected
areas of traditional and unique strength, and educating the public
through exhibitions and other outreach programs about the collec-
tions and research findings. Administrative and support functions are
also supported partially by federal appropriations. Federal appropria-
tions account for 71 percent of the Institution's net operating funds.
In addition, capital outlays for building repair and restoration and for
most new construction are also supported primarily through federal
appropriations, although certain construction projects, ¢.g., the Na-
tional Museum of the American Indian and a planned West Court
complex at the National Museum of Natural History, rely heavily on
private fund-raising or other trust fund resources.

Trust funds account for the remaining 29 percent of the Institu-
tion's net operating funds. The Smithsonian defines trust funds as all

funds it receives from sources other than direct federal appropriations.

These sources include gifts and grants from individuals, corporations,
and foundations; earnings from short- and long-term investments;
earnings from membership programs; and gross receipts from auxil-
lary activities such as Szithsonian magazine, museum shops, food
service concessions, and mail order activities. The Smithsonian re-
ceives grants and contracts, primarily from other federal agencies, but
also from state governments, which are considered trust funds.
Smithsonian trust funds, depending on their source, purpose, and
applicable restrictions, are used for operations, construction, and en-
dowment. These nonappropriated trust funds are used to cover the
expenses of income-producing auxiliary activities, supplement federal
appropriations for programs, and cover an appropriate proportionate
share of the Instirution’s administrative expenses. The use of Smith-
sonian trust funds is further classified as restricted or unrestricted. Re-

suricted funds are those on which the donor or funding agent places
limitations. Seventy percent of the trust net operating funds are re-
stricted. Approximately 54 percent of the endowment is restricted as
well.

The following sections describe the Institution's general financial
situation and its planned responses to changing conditions; specific fi-
nancial outcomes for fiscal 1992; measures, both organizational and
financial, to assure the future fiscal health of the Institution; and rela-
uonships with other affiliated organizations.

Financial Situation and Prospects

During fiscal 1992, an analysis of federal appropriations to the Insti-
tution for the past several years was conducted. That analysis revealed
that a major portion of each annual increment had gone not to sup-
port general operating expenses, but to support specific and/or ear-
marked purposes, such as the new National Museum of the American
Indian, major scientific instrumentation for the Smithsonian Astro-
physical Observatory, new global change research programs, subsi-
dized participation fees for traveling exhibitions, and special
commemorative events such as the Columbus Quincentenary. Despite
the apparent increases in appropriation support, many factors, in-
cluding the need to apply increases to specific activities, had the effect
of eroding the purchasing power of the Institution's operating bud-
get. Other such factors include shortfalls in appropriations relative to
additional new costs, including mandated pay adjustments, employee
benefits, new regulatory requirements, and inflation.

Although the Institution's federal appropriation for operating ex-
penses was $97.3 million greater than in fiscal 1987, the fiscal 1992
funding level (in 1987 dollars) represented a decrease of $22.4 million
actually available for the core programs that were in place in fiscal
1987. This loss of purchasing power resulted in the inability to fill
Many positions that perform essential functions, such as collections
care and facilities maintenance and repair; the deferral of the replace-
ment of scientific equipment; the postponement of the purchase of
library books and serials; and the reduction of other basic program
support.

At the same ume, the weakened national economy, along with a
decrease in the number of visitors, has led to decreased revenues from
the Smithsonian's various income producing activities. Unrestricted
trust fund income from these activities dropped to pre-fiscal 1987
levels. In response, the Institution reduced its budget allocations to
fellowships, collections acquisition, scholarly studies, educational out-
reach, and special exhibitions to 28 percent below the fiscal 1987 level
of $6.4 million.

Prospects for catch-up funding from both appropriated and nonap-
propriated sources are dim. Therefore, in planning for fiscal 1993, the
Institution conducted a comprehensive examination of each of its pro-
grams and activities, considering centrality to the Smithsonian's mis-
sion, quality, and cost-effectiveness. As a result of that examination,
it has begun a multi-year restructuring program to restore and main-
tain financial equilibrium.
Fiscal 1992 Results

Fiscal 1992 Sources of Operating Funds
(Source: Tables 1 and 2)

Gross Nes Net

Sources Sources Sources
Source of Fund's ($000s) ($000s) (%)
Federal Appropriation 283.076 283.076 71
Government Grants and Contracts 42,689 42,689 11
Other Trust Resources 248.917 75.551 _18
Toral Available for Operations 574,682 401,316 100

The fiscal 1992 federal appropriation of $281.2 million, plus an addi-
tional $1.9 million for the Special Foreign Currency, U.S. India, and
the Canal Zone funds, provided the funding nucleus for ongoing pro-
grams of the Institution and limited support for the new National
Museum of the American Indian and for other areas of cultural plu-
ralism, environmental, and education initiatives. Modest increments
of funding were directed to the reinstallation of outdated exhibitions,
the upgrading and replacement of essential information systems, and
strengthening internal controls.

The Smithsonian concluded fiscal 1992 with a shortfall of $3.813
million in unrestricted general trust funds. The shortfall derived from
continued increases in expenditures while revenues from auxiliary ac-
tivities remained essentially flat in comparison to fiscal 1991. Al-
though management had already initiated reductions 1n baseline
expenditures, it became evident that additional cuts were required in
fiscal 1993 to bring costs within further reduced levels of unrestricted
trust income.

In fiscal 1992, government agencies sponsored research projects to-
talling $42.7 million at the Smithsonian, an increase of $5.9 million,
or 16 percent over fiscal 1991. Of this increase, $4.4 million repre-
sents funding from the National Aeronautics and Space Administra-
tion (NASA) to support research at the Smithsonian Astrophysical
Observatory.

Other nonappropriated income from gifts, non-government grants,
endowments, current investments, and revenue-producing activities
totaling $75.55 million augmented funds from federal sources. The
Smithsonian ts especially grateful to its many friends in the private
sector whose generosity contributed vitally to its work. Donors are
listed in the Benefactors section of this annual report.

Construction and Plant Funds (Table 8)

In fiscal 1992, the Smithsonian received $23.599 million in direct ap-
propriations for replacement of major building systems at the Na-
tional Museum of Natural History and the National Museum of
American History, as well as for repair, restoration, and code compli-
ance projects throughout the Instutution.

Appropriations for major construction included $9.874 million for
reconfiguration of the National Museum of Natural History’s East

Court; $2.37 million for the planned National Museum of the Ameri-

can Indian; and $1.678 million for the initial design for the General
Post Office Building. The National Zoological Park received $7.899
million for repairs and other projects in its master plan, including the
Hall of Humankind and Amazonia. Appropriations for other con-

(Millions)

(Millions)

(Millions)

R & R Appropriations

$35

$30

$25

$20

$15

$10

$5

$9 72 74 76 78 80 82 84 86 88 92
Fiscal Year
Total Endowment Funds
$350
$300
$250
$200
$150
$100
$50
$0

70 72 74 76 78 80 82 84 86 88 90 92
Fiscal Year

O Market Value

Total Operating Funds

Fiscal Year
@ Federal ([) Unrestricted # Restricted [Grants

217

struction activities included $5.234 million for minor construction
and planning for future capital projects.

Endowment (Tables 5, 6, and 7)

The Institution has a large number of endowment and quasi-endow-
ment funds. For investment purposes, these funds are pooled into a
consolidated portfolio, and the investment policy is focused on the
total recur (i.e., dividends, interest, and realized and unrealized
capital gains) on the portfolio. Each year, the market value of the
portfolio increases by new gifts, net transfers, and the coral recurn on
the portfolio. It is reduced by the annual payout for current expendi-
tures, fees, and expenses. Each fund within the consolidated endow-
ment purchases shares similar to an investor in a mutual fund. The
value of each share increases as the market value of the consolidated
portfolio (net of new gifts and transfers) increases and, annually, it re-
ceives the applicable payout per share for current expenditures.

The Investment Policy Committee of the Smithsonian's Board of
Regents oversees the development of the investment policy and the
annual payout for the consolidated endowment. The overall objective
of the endowment is to maintain its real purchasing power (net of
new gifts and transfers). Current policy calls for an average payout of
4.5 percent of the average market value over the prior 5 years. To
achieve the endowment objectives, the investment policy targets a
real return of 5 percent.

During fiscal 1992, the market value of the consolidated endow-
ment increased to $343.6 million, a $29.8 million gain. Following
past practice to increase the endowment for the future, $3.1 million
in revenue generated from auxiliary enterprises was transferred to the
unrestricted endowment. The total return was 10.3 percent, the pay-
out was 4.2 percent of the five-year average market value, and fees
were 0.4 percent of average market value of the portfolio. With infla-
tion running at an annual rate of 2.4 percent, the real purchasing
power of the endowment increased by 3.8 percent. At fiscal year-end,
the portfolio of the Institution reflected 36 percent in bonds, 7 per-
cent in cash and cash equivalents, and 57 percent in equities.

Financial Management

In 1990, to assure effective financial management, the Smithsonian
established the position of assistant secretary for finance and adminis-
tration and later designated that position as chief financial officer of
the Institution. The chief financial officer has responsibilities for safe-
guarding all of the Institution's assets and oversees all financial offices
to assure integrated financial planning and proper coordination of all
financial management functions.

Although not required to comply with the Federal Chief Financial
Officers Act of 1990, the Smithsonian has elected to comply volun-
tarily with the spirit and intent of its objectives for sound financial
management and internal controls. The Smithsonian is, in fact, well
ahead of most federal agencies in implementing the principal require-
ments of the act. In addition, the Institution's finance offices are tak-
ing part in an effort to continuously improve the quality of their
products and services and the cost-effectiveness of their business pro-
cesses through total quality management (TQM). A program to train
all financial staff is under way and implementation of the program is
proceeding.

Specific financial management improvement initiatives undertaken
or completed in fiscal 1992 include

218

© an external review, arranged by the Private Sector Council, of the
management and organization of Smithsonian finance and admin-
istration by executives from the Eastman Kodak Company, the
Gillette Company, the Lockheed Corporation, and the American
Express Company;

e the development of a new accounts payable/ purchase order sys-
tem—to be completed by the end of fiscal 1993;

e the development of a more highly coordinated fund-raising pro-
gram plan;

e collateralization of Smithsonian funds on deposit with major banks
through the Federal Reserve Bank;

e the establishment of a Smithsonian-wide disaster preparedness
plan, the acquisition of a fully equipped disaster response trailer,
and completion or initiation of disaster preparedness plans at 22
separate Smithsonian facilities;

© initiation of a study to examine the planning and construction of
exhibitions and recommend opportunities for cost savings—to be
completed in fiscal 1993.

The Institution’s financial statements are audited annually by an in-
dependent public accounting firm. Along with the audit report,
management also receives a report from the auditors with suggested
operational improvements, which management acts upon as appro-
priate. Coopers & Lybrand’s unqualified report for fiscal 1992 is re-
printed on the following pages. The Smithsonian's internal audit
staff, part of the Office of the Inspector General, assists the outside
auditors and regularly audits the Institution's various programs, activ-
ities, and internal control systems. The Defense Contract Audit
Agency audits grants and contracts received from federal agencies, in-
cluding the allowability and allocability of indirect cost charges.

The Audit and Review Committee of the Board of Regents met
three times during the fiscal year pursuant to its fiduciary responsi-
bilities and the bylaws of the Board of Regents. The committee re-
viewed the results of the 1991 audit of financial statements and the
1992 audit plan, received reports from the inspector general, and con-
ducted inquiries on a variety of topics directed at safeguarding the
Institution's various assets.

Related Organizations

The National Gallery of Art, the John F. Kennedy Center for the Per-
forming Arts, and the Woodrow Wilson International Center for
Scholars were established by Congress within the Institution. Each or-
ganization is administered by its own board of trustees and reports in-
dependently on its financial starus. The Smithsonian provides the
Wilson Center with certain fiscal, administrative, and support ser-
vices, as well as office space, on a reimbursement basis.

Administrative services are provided by the Institution on a con-
tract basis for Reading is Fundamental, Inc. The Friends of the Na-
tional Zoo (FONZ), an independent nonprofit organization, operates
under a concessions contract; proceeds accrue to the Zoo.
gw Tablel. Financial Summary (in $000s)

FY 1991 FY 1992

ee ———————— eS ——_—_—_aEEETEEETTTTITTETEETTEEEEEETTTEETTETEETEEEEEE

INSTITUTIONAL OPERATING FUNDS

FUNDS PROVIDED:
Federal Appropriations—{Salaries & Expenses) & Other ....- 2.2.0.2 ee eee eee eee
Governmenc Grantsjéc| Contracts ii cc ctec are cso ss lasce s nsesycysharsicie less! s apiovst shim einisie sis) cqenniszete: Crsl ele
Nonappropniated Trust Funds:
For Restricted | Purposes c.<sc75,0:sis:=icisja1 ates.) spocere: isree slave Shapetale ise syfapepetetnie poms eco ai eye ey shtiai neve
For Unrestricted & Special Purposes:
Auxiliary & Bureau Activities Revenues—Gross .. 2... 2. eee
PessiRelaced( Expenses: ieyasieyciejerstcins Ne Ate oi TT tvar eee ke acsrerlave a is/syaisiag napoet ager sier =
Auxiliary & Bureau Activities Revenues—Net .... 2... 2-222 2eeeee
Invescmenc. Gitta Other Incomes sec cjeisn ast oath ye aioe eee nd hele rants te PENS oie
Toral Net Unrestricted & Special Purpose Revenue: .)...:.:.):(0:. 02202 escliee een ta dln enae ee.
‘ToraliNonappropniaced nist Funds—=Gross 22/66! a i ctene ata see aslo eles oc alen ee cele ete s
me NOE ev epeceros srretrhe erste ate ee slaray ceria) cbatclnvaichcvaesciny sisters) afetavers
lotal Operating: Funds |Provided—Gr0ss: s21.0802 cers heal is ai) esse orate cre tia erete a sista) s, sete ohale ais
rome INE ci cicis isimrainin sce ara See Me ava a etn ute, Sra ene SMO gis Jel pame Lest le lat ate
FUNDS APPLIED
SCIENCE Reise eersereis elena ah i ae. cis o slevouereiaierara ovoid Hoa bask in cles crdiaagenv ele hanhompnaarete eee
Less'SA@ Overhead Recovery asectet;sties.-!5:oisiarsis di ovet suet hereby atdia! serdar sahayatn eiess eierelebreseta eater static
PAresiand Murmamities 35 sy favcicte oat ecavavaja/sraveres ci Sajaje'e fi Seeieiekai sista ete atc Heidiercieis Aoueieuopers Seeter ares
Educattomand!Public Services jcjcre arate ave ae oie a nie SO ieee ten te Sunsets tevaye Joe cies. gi8leoe
International Activities: 2s tsisiciatelfaisiecie<icle circle snes Nes NS ce ee eels
ExnernallA tiairs ieents sie Se ie cys. cine 2 Secisiniasass caaittese wciSg.g cavece a ctesud /aians GPE tose Brelave syslay creat eam. aha
Enscicutionallinitiarives fy) eos. ccc ete ieee See sae Oe ete So EOD Hie Hanae tions

Associates & Business Management
Administration—Federal (see Note 1)
Nonappropnated Trust Funds

flotal' Operating Funds Applied irae). 2.5 1s)2cteiecieics os tects Se cise os wasnt oni Sisce wot lees ciss

Transfers (Nonappropriated Trust Funds)

Uoarestnicted|Funds—lo Plants 3: Sos e2 ccc c eee rt eo eon ee en gio a ticle nists esters eile

Total Operating Funds Applied & Transferred Out ............... 0000s eee eee eee eee ees

CHANGES IN FUND BALANCES:

Nonappropriated Trust—Restricted! Purpose. o.0..:0:c)cvieicleccisie it eleisieiere ice ce eieieid sieleieidies gece elaleness
Unrestricted—General ie tesa tite ese iatore ba aee sloieisinrm mssreiesters

OTHER FEDERAL APPROPRIATIONS (see Note 3)

Mess|Smithsonian' Overhead Recovery jas. )/case1a.8 fase icra encinoe onjne Nerd ne aoe ee cio os
Facilirses Services ecto n nara nictayars a tar nee eos ajay gee Se At San ae Hane Soe ome pierces

$ 273,709 $ 283,076
36,801 42,689
22,822 39,780

196,107 196,625
(173,322) (173,366)
22,785 23,259
14,330 12,512

ll —E

37,115 35,771

233,259 248,917
59,937 75,551
543.769 574,682
370,447 401,316
143,568 156,520
(4,459) (5,009)
89,568 107,130
4,352 4,777
1,969 2,577
5,541 5,491
3,229 4,655
399 356
37,546 26,575
17,047 15,334
(10,107) (10,591)
73,634 77,484
362,287 385,299
(1,753) (232)
3,108 3,633
_— 975
5,732 3,941
369,374 393,616
(3,939) 7,096
3 (3,813)
(4,198) (3,558)
9,207 7,975

$ 1,073 $ 7,700

$ 21,036 $ 28,132
13,772 9,959
31,115 27,557

$ 65,923 $ 65,648

Ganal/Zone Biological Area’ Fund yerrare seeps ort teeters oer ci alsjctesolas slerainietaparcteiaiaistejsisiotateion ere arora necetevete $ 159 $ 154
CUSEM ICRA terse oS ae Se ho ato SIS aN ee aa iete iuareh ate ats Sle gins watt athe e ean eS She eeelelare dedie c 53,233 50,653
Total Federal ‘Appropriation (Including’S'&E above) .'.)ui..<...0:6.0:5 02 .<clhiose 00s nicis sicieaice a,cicle eaiecieceieis ooo bbe de ec cee ts $ 327,101 $ 333,883
Note 1: The funds applied for FY 1991 were regrouped to be consistent with organizational changes that occurred in FY 1992.

Note 2: The fund balance for federal funds represents no-year unobligated funds for instrumentation, collections acquisition, repatriation, and exhibitions.

Also, included in this amount are unobligated funds from FY 1992, FY 1991, FY 1990, and FY 1989 annual appropriation accounts.
Note 3: Excludes $837 thousand received in FY 1991 and $1,325 thousand received in FY 1992 from the Department of State for research projects in India.

These amounts reflect a $414 thousand and $48 thousand exchange rate fluctuauon for FY 1991 and FY 1992, respectively.

219
@ Table2. Source and Application of Operating Funds for the Year Ended September 30, 1992
(Excludes Canal Zone Biological Area Fund, Plant Funds, and Endowments) (in $000s)

Nonappropriated Trust Funds

Total ewer Urirescricee ds Ae ds Reser
Non- Government
Federal appropriated Auxiliary Special Grants and
Funds Funds General Activities Purpose General Contracts
FUND BALANCES—Beginning of Year $ 7,300 $ 65,923 $ 13,772 $ — $31,115 $21,036 $=
FUNDS PROVIDED:
Federal Appropriations ...................-.. 283,076 ~ _ = — — —
WMVEStIMENE INCOME re oes asctsavaratarsagn viadzvave evahesavevais — 14,170 7,616 — 562 5,992 _—
Government Grants and Contracts ............. = 42,689 _— — _— 42,689
Gifts ieee eee ets ee tie Acca eats tvs ole rcieis eras ae bis — 40,110 189 8,034 960 30,927 _—
Sales and Membership Revenue ................ — 188,591 — 180,312 8,279 _ —
Othe rae aia a Race erica per egress heise Seacae Si ciese eset sanieis — 6,046 343 —_ 2,842 2,861 —
TotallProvidediicmws sacaean cee unaenetaae 283,076 291,606 8,148 188,346 12,643 39,780 42,689
eee eee ne
Total Available ........... SOR noes 290,376 357,529 21,920 188,346 43,758 60,816 42,689
eee eee ee
FUNDS APPLIED:
Sciences:
IASSIStAaNE: SCCKETALVN (c.ciccsieysievsisisiate side tavsiaie nies 3% 843 1,148 516 _— 112 177 343
Officejofirhe: Registrar, 2.02 sn syste chess sisiais wee siave 210 15 13 - 2 - —
Fellowships and Grants ...................0.. 397 2,296 125 — 1,901 270 —
Office of Interdisciplinary Studies .............. 114 89 71 _ (26) 44 _
Astrophysical Observatory ................4.. 12,996 45,466 5,839 — 1,981 567 37,079
Less\Overhead Recovery’ «22. c.0<scneees ences (5,009) (5,009) - - = =
Tropical Research Instutute .............0.0000. 6,785 2,387 202 = 860 675 650
Environmental Research Center ................ 2,414 1,422 90 _— 285 207 840
National Zoological Park ........ sat sfehatetete (crores 16,617 3,826 172 = 1,731 912 1,011
Smithsonian’ Archives’: 3... 6506660: cc0deeaee sss 707 248 221 _ 24 3 _
Smithsonian Libraries: ..k. sc. aacv.ceeacsccc seca 5.997 770 638 — 130 2 —
International Environmental Science Program .... 901 = — - — _- _
Major Scientific Instrumentation ............... 2277, - _ — — — _—
National Museum of Natural History ........... 32,614 6,676 418 _ 1,836 3,341 1,081
Conservation Analytical Laboratory ............. 2722 95 _ _— 77 18 _
Museum Support Center ........... jisianseatatere 7,090 _ = — — = es
lorali Sciencesmarmrriercie.. clei oe inc rex 92,684 59,429 3,296 — 8,913 6,216 41,004
Arts and Humanities:
ASSISTANCE SOCLOCALY 6 cca ehes cree wis) sheng! shave. 05.40. svacajerece 1,366 1,050 506 _ 216 328 —
Office of Museum Programs ................... 555 71 53 = 14 4 —
Josephi Henry Papers: sac ce oic.siciais clove wicicesseasies 269 8 _ _ 1 7 _
American! Studies i222 is ccc te tee esses cies 106 19 — — 19 _ =
National Air & Space Museum ................ 11,500 7,334 253 _ 4,432 2,147 502
National Museum of American History .......... 18,268 5,545 175 — 1,609 3,181 580
National Museum of the American Indian ....... 8,193 75 172 — 102 1 —
National Museum of American Art ............. 6,694 2,948 188 — 1,129 1,631 —
NationaliPortrattiGallety 2 toes cuisers/-4 250 22 4,038 599 34 — 332 231 2
AA/PG Building Manager ...............2.... 1,219 7 = = 7 = =
Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden ....... 3,980 6,523 216 a 642 5,665 =
FreeriGalleryotvAre: tree 228 ceieye.e cs ieteieie woes sic 3,262 3,057 9 370 2,678 —
Archur/M?’Sackler Gallery «000.6. 600000000008. 2,741 1,845 81 _ 399 1,365 —
Archives of American Art .................... 1,236 970 94 — _— 876 _
Cooper-Hewitt Museum. «.< 5.636.500 6002406544 22211 2,822 1,048 _ 1,328 411 35
National Museum of African Art ............ — 3,723 230 32 = 58 140 -
Anacostia Neighborhood Museum ............. 1,087 193 166 — 26 1 =
Office of Exhibits Ceneral ....................- 2,093 66 — ~ 66 _ -
Traveling Exhibition Service... 2... .....2222-.. 2,292 2,318 344 = 1,076 852 46

Total Arts and Humanities .................. 74,833 35,880 3,371 o 11,826 19,518 1,165
gw Table2. Source and Application of Operating Funds for the Year Ended September 30, 1992
(Excludes Canal Zone Biological Area Fund, Plant Funds, and Endowments) (in $000s) (continued)

Nonappropriated Trust Funds

Toul Unrestricted Restricted
Non- Government
Federal appropriated Auxiliary Special Grants and
Funds Funds General Activities Purpose General Contracts

Education and Public Service:
PASSIStant: SCCLEUALY «= = ois as.s.2 Hote Seas sie ci ae 384 389 298 — 70 21 —
Center for Folklife Programs and

GulturallStudies;A8 4:02 2c Ayes ean ee 1,318 1,596 761 — 365 207 263
Office of Elementary and Secondary Education ... 418 353 270 = 39 34 10
National Science Resources Center ............. 242 190 190 — _— — —

Total Education and Public Service ..........- 2,362 2,528 1,519 — 474 262 273
International Center/ Activities ................ 909 1,668 658 - 126 725 159
External Affairs
Assistants Secretary aio o3, 614,56 ote pais ase ein $ 169 $ 936 $ 615 $ — $ — $ 284 $ 37
Office of Telecommunications ................. 322 970 586 — 97 256 31
Visitor Information and Associates’ Reception .... 182 1,073 1,051 _ 23 (1) —
Office of Special Events and Conference Svs ...... 72 182 182 — = — _—
Smithsontan|Presstsee=. ccc cctsek ceeena secs t es 1,530 19,701 —_ 19,510 141 48 2

MotaltExternal A ftairs vars satis Pane Swine elles Pe aio) 22,862 2,434 19,510 261 587 70
Instirutional Iniriativess 71-12 ais etectaists ch ofeer -te 55 4,952 4,440 — 379 133 =
PASSOCIAUES scare cfelcpan apes Pevercye aie Sa yeaie (a jarayn en ay oye _ 96,489 240 96,133 56 42 18
Business Management/ Activities ............... — 51,724 — 51,724 _ _ =
Admuininistration) £ <> 2 oes <5 cee 2+ sees lense 26,575 16,223 13,052 _— 2,984 187 _

Less Overhead Recovery .................... — (10,591) (10,591) _— _ — =
Facilities! S€rvices =f ott: . co esetei<teici cre eseye cet orate beeps Sad 75,408 2,400 1,551 — 846 3 =
Transfers Out/(In):
Proprams (ste Notes l) | 02.0 ers: o0chaiecereseceveys-s, e}esere, ese, — 4,487 _ (4,487) _ —
Net Auxiliary Activities ...................... — — (19,110) 19,110 _ — =
Other Designated Purposes ................... — = 3,521 1,869 (5,485) 95 =
Phanncapey i s S0 2 o,o afe B s atacase sca. ese _— 743 _ _ (232) 975 =
Eid owmennt 292 5 o505 cfc ah tora estealsiclee elncene 7,574 3,093 - 540 3,941 =

Tocalslranstets © 227. -.cye sce cate s.2 oie siete toto — 8,317 (8,009) 20,979 (9,664) 5,011 =

flotaliFunds}Appliedy-:.)..-2.7.2-22 eerste 275,101 291,881 11,961 188,346 16,201 32,684 42,689
FUND BALANCES—End of Year (see Note 2) ... $ 15,275 $ 65,648 $ 9,959 - $27,557 $28,132 =~

Note 1: Includes Collections Acquisition, Scholarly Studies, Educational Outreach, and Special Exhibitions Programs.
Note 2: The fund balance for federal funds represent no-year funding for instrumentation, collections acquisition, repatriation and exhibitions.

gw Table3. Government Grants and Contracts—Expenditures (in $000s), Fiscal Years 1991 and 1992

Government Agencies FY 1991 FY 1992
Bieparemient off Deters 55 rye a oe. ase aos Sieur ayer ererecotel cle aust Sess cu Sree SEATINES, Grasse SbsesuarSED ee bey RAIMA cron abe $ 883 $ 779
DepraremenconE nergy ite acct sts: ste ere heer hese a ae eal ea ease aie geasictes lo fesershcle siete net estos otarstngatn ce prathibnes 425 499
Deparment of Health and) Human! Services ere cteieisis cise fala oss) viciatcis.d, 2 ste la.sls.alendsleio ie clslelaletelatarciar malonate ele easlerela-s 613 591
Department of{interiotgtartcte iste sasia ce ore alee Palate are creer steieietate ee otictries fe elpein oe tas ees Suc emee 1,242 807
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (see Note 1)... 2... eee cee eee eee eee ee ee eeees 31,616 35,999
National Science} Foundation (see: Note'2) atc c.-te. cts cre reteie ore ein ave ie seize loseiere te oo ava arerace areca stetstote Sin anseecal sha tevee, Ne voioveldinsteievee 852 1,627
(2,6 Toy ues eterna Siro ce PICT TE ett Aaa Os ete aE ran MRA a a PEE aR Pe 1,170 2,387

CROCA Perec reeset Aa otatet rishi ate 2te eee oe SEN Fee ere lacd SI IeLS0seIe aie wre BPA oie catele lacie GvaKO ele SIGE: El Sc) ose d:sape ase evele’S, nralstele s $36,801 $42,689

Note 1: Includes $849 thousand (FY 1991) and $895 thousand (in FY 1992) in subcontracts from organizations receiving prime contracts from the National
Aeronauucs and Space Administration.
Note 2: Includes $314 thousand (FY 1992) in National Science Foundation subcontracts from Chesapeake Research Consortium.

22

teal
ge Table4. Auxiliary Activities, Fiscal Years 1991 and 1992 (in $000s)

Sales and Net
Membership Less Cost Gross Revenue
Revenue Gifts of Sales Revenue Expenses (Loss)
EY@100 Lienert ener caster ere he entece ct cicero $178,073 $7,752 $94,511 $91,314 $70,309 $21,005
FY 1992:
Associates/Proprams yijiis...... ..ceisiee ihe cies ayhisidabasldee wags $101,298 $8,034 $64,750 $44,582 $31,383 $13,199
Business Management: (see Note 1)
—Museum Shops/ Mail Order ............2222200... 54,128 24,384 29,744 23,510 6,234
meee OLICESSIONISL Rois sss 6150s Ags av atavey ci ovojs vera ai al anette, 3,788 — _— 3,788 2,923 865
OTH TS pas ate re ee 1,436 _— — 1,436 907 529
Smithsonian\Pressiyevecacs ciace taehe: 22 cre as cueretetete ce eleessitites a8 19,502 _ 4,992 14,510 14,518 (8)
Media Activities (see Note 1)... 2.2.2.0... eee eee eee 160 — — 160 — 160
pRotal VE Yigt 9:9 2itcycys meets erates: cs cansvouszalananctacane csracesovevereracts $180,312 $8,034 $94,126 $94,220 $73,241 $20,979

Note 1: Before revenue-sharing transfers to participating Smithsonian bureaus of $1,102 thousand (FY 1991) and $1,869 thousand (FY 1992).

@ Table5. Endowment and Similar Funds September 30, 1992 (in $000s)

Book Market
Value Value
ASSETS:
Pooled Consolidated Endowment Funds:
Gashiand equivalents: isi 5/s5e'd Sgr arate cote.acaosb bb ats revere, ototetcuensverd drevaasaseistepeyate g) Sti siaia a. aia0a ave, scare sisial ayaigner austanetarckavcuavoramyerevere $ 24,890 $ 24,890
jE UTRSTET UT SUT CRE EI eee Pe ee eter ee 23,928 26,916
Interfund !Receivable? cere eyo. cee ei eterers re ois 0 vis oi tlerd tie oo he eaele sia sialiionsls aS EES LIEG wh Se eERIS Sin vic o hele oele orci hetieie « 2,545 2,545
U.S. Government and Government Obligations .... 0.000. eee EO CMe ere ete e 70,586 73,360
rads ire crater rene ce ke Laseresacotei aia oisicneioreteseiAie aj che suaie ac eversrstauovste aavorete leis io se inle aparareis.s sit Rite oes aise is eae a Oe oTel eure eee 53.310 56,463
CO Tg) Oa Cc Core (ES oe ge SSS Eg SPOUSE SY Pe cnr Ca eC 1,861 2,482
StockSysecdceaiiinacas Pe Petra aa TERRE TTET AS PTE RET SEE REECE TICE Oe ER See eee 122,504 164,472
RECEIVAINLE LOL SOCLICICIES SON 05s ee raed ars ar arate rave cla ae DTS ne ae OR aan ae es Se ee Saas RES Aor ep eie te 7,541 7,541
otallPooled Funds 20% cic oc ie ekiccc scaue wteeaeas reer iet ee Seton eee een, 307,165 358,669
Nonpooled Endowment Funds:
Loan\toiW?Si:Treasurysin Perpetuiity< 2.0: -s:srsis.a:evereese’ 6 2015 1ci 0065 (ayarara a a ave belo io'o) O1a/ Dasa wees Se cardia SENS chara ie agl ar gigs gl goal) shavar siatane 1,036 1,072
ECOIV ADIOS ect rg ia ae seveareia vee a ictate eisai eisvavarereimavels ers REE ESET REST : ae se Wrahelalahalchaarsbel oh ahebalehaveer ene 20 20
Innvestmmientsjin Charitable rusts ysrarecrerctors yar stare cro retre aaa era ae ae ea ae eaten a tee creas Din ciate a eelereiercicrets 595 834
flotaltNonpoolediBundsiv, s.cete cee ee renee «te coon ee ht etee sti cit sm Aamascinacscusdee nuoestic 1,651 1,926
BUCCI AN SSPUS rte fela emcee ieiei el shate c= 24ers (eae ore cee. o a aspG are a lara eden ka TIS Denk oah OT en SIRNID a oem a eam ial ajar VD -avn EO RR Ree $308,815 $360,595
LIABILITIES AND FUND BALANCES
LIABILITIES:
Payables tor: Securities Purchased: s.sjc1s.<15.01514:5:sseieis Save ve.e 5 Dyed esa) o.are iS igd lel e.oinra aharevasatal dyare. cvs tayaraye aids cia.s aha acchavensiareveuenenevevernre $ 16,147 $ 16,148
Deferred: Revenue— Charitable rusts) crcrevetery <1 cls) are oe a (ase a 'a/ace coca a seg Wik wera ah clateng gree hs can eles 6s. Wiw wy creqeeeooyorereraraverereiererevege 595 834
————_—_——L— EEE EEE
Moralilieabilitiestec ceicte civich TNS es toe a fca dos twine whe Methuen Metale Reel Heed dana Sin ate disidia W nepelere wets oe eee ee 16,742 16,982
FUND BALANCE:
Wnresericted Purpose: wine! Endowment soy.:5..15/s1yetoo'orn sista gis GIS 5.5: sites is ete ev atatares ex ates oo Pera ter tre aw wl sare atta ararecnete mr ee 7,793 9,849
Quast Endowment (rere sic sicteisieisveveidsan acetate ¢;0yaievsyavels agerevoxsiain or sncvare orale eae Sates aah starr >: ayayayareyavetereneuevererete 127,526 146,546
ee
oral Wnresericted [Purpose c:5:5.6:5js15: sie. 0ce6.16i0.01s 315,9 sesisiecsi ss sine ae Siese Oe € pense nin ieis.eia\/e isis ee e/e/eon118/8iayzyer= Ecdie ese. eis NORE 135,319 156,395
eel
Restricted, Purpose: True’ Endowmentt.. . ... 5:0... - 0-2s02e05 se seeds ccieeeceleimeanss ote e pate bebe, Ball esene.’ ysis ole ieee paate 100,408 121,584
Quasv Endowment: 255.203.2615 ves; 6:86, s. 'nyeayse aye, ciesduaynyeie esayeroi aro: ye) Hake hatatmeangtaveial a sretatet este retara a Renae 56,347 65,634
SS nl
srotallResericted | Purpose a. aysyartiascyerassiesereveysi eevee st snat sv cletal afta! ayataialyaciararate siaseressisisys, sie msiies  OaNSISLO 5s areininae eae eaes 156,755 187,218
————————— eee
LotallFundiBalancessaisier: mcs.<;- cteisicserasdeb-wicrorere sig 6.5.0 909 Vid Se ww Ss ww yen Sldie ls tiaiels SS Bical ate sl ale1g Balsa acreeisie Beles ee SES 292,074 343,613
—S >
otalil:iabilitiesiand) Findi Balances nx, sccrarercxcvowe se etatans eis si Spare lovers ster ate Sid Toys fa teeta th SvsFoss, once VMeTonetoreeals Nera IR epee teres $308,816 $360,595
EEE

222
gw TableSA. Market Values of Endowment and Similar Funds (in $000s)

Fund 9/30/88 9/30/89 9/30/90 9/30/91 9130/92
———————— ee eee —————_—_—_———_—_——_—_______TTTnnnnninininnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnTTnnnnnnnnnnnnnTnnnInnIIITTRRRRRREREREA Te
UWenreserected ett g aps Syegags, Score isl nis ase chessia erage MOS stools aivelayegeccuaseccunrerat al’ $101,432 $127,394 $117,123 $143,205 $156,395
FRC yet cert ee eer rete ear refer ere tes setae cene ry sacusy sale ay srave yaa eraiece, Suan Cis aie 44,228 53,731 47,963 57.775 61,523
OucherRestricted 2) 3 <..,sjs cise Ss alse yn ayes lee oS ciascbbashap pane esnieissie as 75.169 98.540 89,430 112,796 125,695

Tote lh 8 ay cae AIO hr ESOT DTD ORCS ein Eee iar SR Toren arse er $220,829 $279.665 $254,516 $313,776 $343,613

mg Table6. Changes in Pooled Consolidated Endowment—Fund Balances at Market (in $000s)

Unrestricted Freer Restricted Total

IMariket, Valute TO ss Qe h 2 coceavabeccrarere eve reise eraye ore ie te covevararats careleva raeatevevaie tere tential bene $142,193 $57,775 $112,663 $312,631
Changes.
(OTT Be ec utiaela Sony EIS Giticoes thie en ea eee Sennen ean 94 — 1,244 1,338
Transfers of Excess Yield (Net of below)

Interescand!Dividends (see; Note: 1) a:-..7..-eina:ciete sais ere are cate aotesbt ce tayynntise dele 4,680 1,878 3,7% 10,354

EST ra) oP Te WO TT aia, ed ian 2a enon en claret a ld Pa Peet eos LP RR (4,771) (1,908) (3,845) (10,524)
ransters;of @Orheriincome sty a -isey starsat a tater eileen tore ieee Gas See 3.775 _ 4,056 7,831
Marker ValuevA ppreciationy 5 oa vsyarajtie spares rors sstereitidiept de cuate lore tieisialisle Stang iayacts ots 9,454 3,778 7,659 20,891
Market Value —9130192i(See: NOte 2) jo.o.0:<te,custetsse avec sianccapacevansqnyersvatend aide aneyerd, aise eteoaae “aus $155,425 $61,523 $125,573 $342,521

Note 1: Income earned, less managers’ fees of $1,140 thousand.
Note 2: Nonpooled Endowment Funds have a market value of $1,093 thousand for a total endowment market value of $343,613 thousand.

gw Table7. Endowment Funds September 30, 1992

Principal Income
Book Market Net Unexpended
Value Value Income Balance

UNRESTRICTED PURPOSE—TRUE:
“Avery bund (see! Note'li) jai. sce:o<1oi0:4:c)stata:svasapare alessio! cate cicit eiecere ddbtielb fle. ave $ =. 257,525 $ 332,332 $ 11,034 $ _
Higbee! Harry: Memorial ics 5 -:<,<..1<;<coiescieio stay.te stais:e ores diesel de cidtbicis ove nee 92,454 116,451 3,612 —
Hodgkins'Fund (sce Nore: 121(c0o.21205.0 0 sroyasosapetotetersiais/e:crarers oft atefe vier e's 376,458 428,988 19,335 =
Morgan, Gilbert B. and Betty J., Memorial Fund ...................... 40,972 45,989 1,426 aa
Morrow: Dwight). 22s: seine cetteaiies oslo te trea etigmeeaecens 462,588 607,599 18,843 -
Mussinan’ Alfred) )steiiccne cttscie sic atie nw ofehetarstaotolahata iat clorcyshieetdie- sual eeate aie 140,877 177,688 S:511 _
Olmsted s Helen vA 05-455 2k cee eee a an ea Le eens 4,790 6,202 192 _
Poore? | Lucy'l::and George 'W: (see! Nore] ) 2 \-)-fiiciciereieiste ole steitinta gies sists 1,023,570 1,337,858 42,876 _
PorterHenry Kirke. | Memorial»: 012.5: 215/2,2/01<t5.0js)~ieieie.s.0.012.0 02.0.8) fisye cise 6.82 1,709,508 2,243,643 69,580 _
Sanford 4 George H: (see/Note 1) 225 f2:ciatepssties« ie oicte: or svoie-e 4/2 Stee tz ot crele' 6,997 8,725 328 _
Smuthson' Jamies (see! Note 2) sis sci-ccevore lo tcfsielajetetsicieicielat sisieveislerer tien sce 829,925 865,158 54,980 _
Smuthson\Soctety,"Jarmes pie 202 5,222 sis1e is coo fottaraWiolere als clas oleseraGaltette) ole os 176,824 181,638 4,659 _
Walcott, Charles D. and Mary Vaux, Research (Designated) .............. 2,670,273 3,496,777 108,442 138,389

SSS eS

Surbecoral ee tei crerrs rors t pei atete tote lelatsteiereroresateresolcle sielolelctularavetarsielelshacs 7,792,761 9,849,048 340,818 138,389

UNRESTRICTED PURPOSE—QUASI
Ecei( Charles E1: > Fear (0892002) oo. .a)e.syoco5ts foe theta cic ontole, steelers MAAS Spa ore: ores 1,184,373 1,342,099 41,621 =
Ferguson, Frances'B., Endowment .:2%2!0:¢:t 7s. 2 2scis:s 0.1010 0:0: 9 slelsie no wibicte «is 605,675 665,916 20,651 _
Forrest Robert Lice cotter cree ape rcier at ieee love eroreiniersiecsterosiattet Mirani: 6,015,246 6,761,421 209,685 _
General'Endowmient:(seeiNote 1) i. o.oo fis faisfele belo deee siete Bites ee 102,271,760 117,626,928 3,612,168 _
Goddard "Roberr Hi Vat marist inctron sect th oie sce arene ded baceoe 47,617 53,546 1,661 an
Habel \DrsS2 (see Notes) ) on. set sacs arossien tite ovate, eis rte oie resaie wrote 766 799 51 —
) EETEEN ETC Tl ERPs ek SN es AGE at 5 Ra re rR 3,247 4,007 124 =
Hertry, Caroline. <sc:fe¥eve so o's +) </21s\atsis ols sph ateelesess:s:s 0 %le sie ie.tyelzre Shes oo sx 8,027 9,883 306 _
Henry josephi anid Harriet A. ors:sscraic.creieicteoietotoysi«icie.«inleleiciosarnctie Wiecio ities 322,084 395,284 12,259 =
heyss Maid Gocco ctor ook ela soto era's fares fsTeleo ie atthe save crsjaretetoreeinverate hres sisal 580,316 657,922 20,404 —
Hinton? Carcie Susan L108 32 e.-sosc, ose. 0. 01c. oth iciistoteictare.c.o,los0'e,oyendlctele ia ectrcreseys 161,192 192,464 5,969 _
Koreen’ Dorothy: Beco tnijefasrerey «a: 2rer0/0)aia)-0 20 afeltereraisrerere oieicreteleeevereeihnereje.s 215,277 229,582 7,120 —
Eeamiberce Patla Gop rns cere yee ooo peieieie cae arn ere em 292,516 353,099 10,950 —
Medinuis? Grace Lani cicrscise cin aie ae ee aida a eeiai oils lainiele Bieleiste a 5.757 6,549 203 _

223
gw Table 7. Endowment Funds September 30, 1992 (continued)

Principal Income
Book Market Net Unexpended
Value Value Income Balance
@iDeatglearrayl ime ttre teste cite cys fevers oes c cisue apavunve sales scorers Bie erevarsia ete. oe 194,094 224,821 6,972 —
Pili, oneal Es Ges ka tase od cera ae aaa mee ae ee ee 811,124 905,817 29,540 _—
RheesawilliamiJones!(Sees;NOte sl) ec. se ies cpeuse cee oop tre coce esevt egy eatnostuc tuegeneae = 4,023 4,775 178 _—
fete forge | (CIEVEY) bette, A en Ree Eee ene eee Se 267,419 307,309 9.530 —
Smithsonian Bequest Fund (see Note 1)... 2.2.2.2 2 eee 1,916,023 1,756,077 46,526 _
SulmersDonaldiH!Endowment. Sasascecseee eee wearer ane ates oes eter 481,757 824,227 25,614 _
Wag Party GanisOm npr se re scenes et aarere ss Grease eisiace ce Gunes dcaveyerovareravore'S a 2,874 3,744 116 —
IW irncererwALiceN ly crete sentratcrcieie dca cists cia vere ss aie Sieelajalns satin sr eogiecih a 149,633 141,478 2,477 —
Abbor Williamile (Designated)... o5<0-04 552 seeens se eetteteseccoce= 755,438 929,131 28,814 54,536
Barstow Frederic 4 (Designated)! « .y-:4)02) 2 .ercr dh esevs arse dda apn sie. sueie etal ole 6,320 7,765 241 6,136
Hirshhorn Museum Acquisition Fund (Designated) .................... 3,303,872 3,882,543 119,638 =
Lindbergh Chair of Aerospace History (Designated) .................... 2,787,143 3,217,989 99.796 194,664
Eindbergh.GharlesyA\. (Designated) jo... <ccemse.acssayecceeceyeseini so. «)sene/nyerers ayn 45,567 51,810 1,607 10,522
Lyon, Marcus Ward, Jr. (Designated) ................0000202202 200 00- 30,738 35,196 1,092 3,729
Martin Marietta Internship (Designated) .............20000.-0000000-- 197,032 231,237 TZ 216
NMNEResearchi(Designated)) i i6 55 sete ees.e.s 3 .esce tev areied viewewwieieieis 91,960 89,382 462 462
Smithsonian Agency Account (Designated) ....... 2.02.0... ce eee eee 24,267 28,137 998 145
Smithsonian Press Scholarly Books Fund (Designated) .................- 1,836,711 2,255,041 69,933 57,608
Smithsonian Tropical Research Instirute Endowment Fund (Designated) ... 1,438,764 1,806,748 60,404 17,662
Webb, James E., Fellowship (Designated) ....................2000000- 1,282,162 1,357,412 42,096 170,300
Women's Committee Fellowship (Designated) ........................ 184,775 186,345 5.779 1,167
Subtotal U2 cicjccsasveseresesss0/erste PICO OOO OATES UC COO COUSDOLERTCOS 127,525,549 146,546,483 4,502,156 $17,147
(LoralUnresericred | Ptsrpose ai. arais ce crovayerayavapesersvcietevarers oe evever eter eiwiete eters $135,318,310 $156,395,531 $ 4,842,974 $ 655,536
RESTRICTED PURPOSE—TRUE:
Aitken, Annie Laurie, Endowment Fund ..................00.-.00005 $ 356,553 $ 426,427 $ 11,951 $ 24,589
PATCNMAE SH) AETNOS vette Bay oats aa avc sit ssc nic o/e/etasateistals/s'ate aia ale e/a.d o/s sfeteferereters 230,557 304,327 9.438 19,035
BairdespencerFullerton’ 22.022. c ccs ou-ee-o ecw deena sua aiec areata savor 207,592 272,037 8,436 18,771
Barney 7Alice/Pikes Memomnial sich. sac. ss gee ces dee v0 4 0ees at seaasicleics 165,254 218,083 6,763 67,880
Batchelorsemmalb str acts teenie ccice « ciricerces ce eeeeeke tee tacit tees 191,993 225,583 6,996 72,992
Beauregard, Catherine, Memorial... 22... ee eee 247,934 304,751 9,451 112,993
Berperis Charlortey V. cyte 2ojocc. 052513 1 (ors rats a a(n afstsia(gis.a0eielalewasare esaieieres shavers aye 20,237 22,523 698 4,293
SLOWING ROMAIN INN Seater cafes oray ors os foso-o ras yo fre ese lojaheje cuasaiaie eG ieeceraje ecavareinvereievere 182,894 226,108 7,012 16,260
Burch, George, Fellowship in Theoretic Medicine and Affiliated Theoretic
SCIENCES FUNG Meise etre cies ete Sieices otis core eee ee eee mine 1,879,703 2,046,703 63,472 115,061
Canfield MErederick: Ate nce scion ce clcc cae eee cess eet wsoeee cs ene 244,487 335,300 10,398 284
Casey. Thomas Lincoln se sins .ccc,stsrawiacs oa is paleraieiedve cies. ee a. ee Seiwiwieie.s 79,446 97,703 3,030 12,908
Ghamberlainy branes) Lea) 2/2 .:aaicee weve e's <:e.a aetna araars 4015 Gsagiere eave neers 162,257 214,129 6,641 28,899
Cooper Fundifor Paleobiology: 7.40. .s.0s/ scrtete sais 5 c6-0,0,dhe-d os araeceieererere 228,134 253,110 7,714 _-
Division of Mammals Curators Fund ....... 2.2.0.2 00000022 e ee eee eee 17,047 20,057 622 2,441
Drake Foundation nce cia. cic cc 6 a ates ce evinn eae oo as aemere'ela’es Ls dins 1,069,970 1,266,451 39,112 235,540
Drouet, Francis and Louderback, Harold B. Fund ..................2... 325,351 363,651 11,278 73,415
Dy kesti Charles Bea westerns: cters(oieiareraysicicie sie crete. 2 are cieineieinis ere cece Saris 305,398 370,257 11,482 79,229
EarontHarrietsPhillites:! Soiaysis orsicictsis.ninreie/a!s via'e's sisiorsieleis siandioiee.d oaeielereiers 69,481 74,703 7a) 5,988
Eickemeyer, Florence Brevoolt .... 05. cc cc ccc cc ccc tee ccee ewes 62,613 82,620 2,562 14,416
Eppley/Memorialr cca cpr tate 21a afa rare sa's ro osc eo crate ala oles a inh Gates eeaveretne 32,596 35,046 1,087 2,809
ForbessEdward Waldo! Set tivstis ccs cs sone foe occ 2 ebb ews cc cle cosine 1,018,396 1,120,726 34,756 110,686
Breers Charles Dewevre ert vecisisyecicisjeveyeisre te ao sae 66 a Sele ees aces 8 sie 50,093,594 61,523,394 1,907,965 2,393,512
Global Environmental Endowment Fund ................0.-0 00000 ee eee 3,253 3,486 108 272
GrmmbSergeN eect ser scree occa nthe ctareces cel sibbers. j.areoe'e,o eseve arsvare 171,277 192,757 5,978 51,082
Grooms BarrichiWteratcYetoteiars <.cieis ais sicigieisivin ais: sere refaisieteieis-scavocsiaue a8 antes 74,510 194,035 6,017 29,359
Guggenheim, Daniel and Florence ..... 22... 2 22 ee Rita fear : 680,292 787,201 24,413 60,931
Hamilton, James (see Note 'l) 2.2.0.0... 0.00 ccc cee cece cee eeveeeeee 6,276 7,286 356 4,384
Henderson, Edward P. and Rebecca R., Meteorite Fund ................ 187,793 200,142 6,207 8,834
Hewitt ElcanonG. ;Repairikund ) 6..2610:c.<isersiciecicicies os ceded eeentse cs’ 41,664 49,493 1,535 1,420
Hewitt? Sarah Coopet: f2ti< eres 2, «jae: sp0's,sereeiticicieie tc cere oe sisiate od baie 973% 246,170 292,135 9,060 11,524
Billyeravargill nt sorte cn.cis carrot soayeearacisreecienn baalee sinless eeea ae 41,661 51,236 1,589 17,801
BhirchcocksrAl berti San yarns tara ch Aare torre nein Domne cineeya a aciesees 9,197 12,191 378 1,830
Hodgkins Fund (see Note 1) 2.2.2.0... ccc ccc cece cece cece cee eecace 153,177 159,678 10,152 32,692
Firdlickasralesiand| Manieg sence ejcne cio mc. cee Sr iaia nice frase x.d,0 6 Deets alee 305,008 378,875 11,750 7,725
Hughes Bruce: ves ec, «os Sa ic.cie ced See, susie wa.s.c2 ed atee kceses 110,381 145,718 4,519 19,710
Hunungton Publication Fund ........ 2.0.2... eee eee ee eee eee 271,346 291,742 9,047 23,399
Johnson, Seward, Trust Fund for Oceanography ........-.........--5-- 20,774,148 25,588,490 793,551 _
Kellogg, Remington and Marguerite, Memorial ...............--..---- 336,490 385,952 11,919 2,795

224
gw Table7. Endowment Funds September 30, 1992 (continued)

Principal Income
Book Market Net Unexpended
Value Value Income Balance
———— ee __________——————————_—_——_—_—________TEETTITTTTIITITEETIETTEE nana
Kerammars Nadas eee rere arya eases oe reyo Tee ee Cetera ereteoene eos epstoter akan G fafa stele 23,514 26,978 636 1,020
MandilSHarryand'Beverlyjic fo te cea te setciet ae > rate ticiecstpaioiee tate 105.401 106,954 3,026 4,191
Maxwell Mary ee ee eee ye eat ee ales nahelitateuassueieiexeedsieie st 113,100 149,301 4,630 62,974
Mellon Foundation Challenge Grant/Endowment ..............--.--+: 714,319 832,714 25,810 46,595
Mellon Publications Endowment Fund ..............--.2.020--000000 577,170 613,533 18,502 34,264
Milliken sH'Oochout:sMemortal) ioc. at at sh aatoric ert eaters (eieloets Bee sis 883 1,455 45 307
Mineral Endowmenty-.ycsjerecayert cae totesharoranczeveee aectaievern tl beta batavase cua totarerate 562,061 671,928 20,838 315
Marchell | Walliam ‘Anges 3k SoS he Se BUS RE ae hayes 76,545 91,726 2,845 34
Museum of the American Indian—Heye Foundation ..................- 993,171 1,067,826 33,115 85,647
NMAI Educational Endowment Fund .............-...2-.20---- 200s 35,959 34,789 446 446
Nelms, Henning, Endowment Fund .................--0 0000 e eee eres 244,492 250,220 7,653 24,842
Nelson: Edward Walliam (.0)2'200.. 2 sje1s. secs. siagetsccs evele's sestarts siereietesyeiaue bate esa 130,682 169,071 5,243 13,684
Petrocelli*Joseph®, Memonial 227-2222 stin sate stern id ce ar wierd cv ctapateraietss 42,856 56,631 1,756 15,053
Reid sAddison 1a(see! Nore iL) oi tarcicrortayemen ices coe atone nearer ware rc aes 129,535 156,123 5.414 24,024
Ripley, S. Dillon and Mary Livingston ................0..2000200 0s eee 216,329 246,503 7,492 -
Roebling/Furnd | (22st, Smarts £5 on cae aed ashe cy ostyes yee tiel pete eins diols 693,169 913,311 28,324 143
Rollins |Martam and William )o)e.ccc.c 0 22 es2yao ays 2 Sreisje Sieseysieie o ote sisi elelsie ciel es 1,480,503 1,825,521 56,143 49,839
SchmuceNJohaly’ Paes ci Meee AeA bikie ch whet Sta hae ARASH sae 20,301 21,827 677 1,749
Sims} George Wt5-73 BA akis aie at seeps Grin da swear Semiaee es 178,388 199,191 6,177 25,132
Sprague Bundi etree chats anos wor crason acoso see 9,275,416 10,913,924 335.651 190,836
Springer Prank eA ss ee eect ec sain dee A ane ee 103,564 136,286 4,226 31,163
Stern: |HaroldiP);;Memonal!*:.. 32% sis 3 secre oes wet cole nens mene 1,105,952 1,301,449 40,360 264,722
Stevenson, John A., Mycological Library ................-20.-20000055 30,368 37,234 1,155 5.709
SruarcsMary Homes): ). 355.2 <c.cia)s 2c. 5,0 100s ose cie'usiadastnare a facies silo tele 437,250 473,082 14,671 773
uppers Bard S sesartsteporc:sceveyc lepers aretha e Ms NNN awa eae Se Mites 1,016,089 1,002,014 12,902 12,902
Walcott, Charles D. and Mary Vaux, Research .............-00- 000 ee eee 978,597 1,189,379 36,481 38,279
Walcott Research Fund, Botanical Publications .................2....-- 337,801 460,970 14,296 20.263
Williston, Samuel Wendell, Diptera Research ............2.--00000000- 32,367 37,044 1,149 5,427
Walleams Blair Gc Elsieg: «dee sccicccccesee onset ees e erst eters ee thee 42,746 45,959 1,425 3,684
ZEIDECHETANCES BEUNCKC is o5- cess stro eel sie se Sie lelasepe sie Goseiniese etslet Tieewsioles 5,442 7,166 222 8,246
Suabbeoreal 55.2 (oe favsrs,<isieve (ate .ac esa stece oe sss alesis aya,e e848 Hog gatas Siok 100,408,100 121,584,215 3,751,070 4,658,022
RESTRICTED PURPOSE—QUASI
Abbot.) Marie Bolan 3c scsyerece tate ic cae rare fofe eats ose erat rcheystactesroersseeiceer sts 189,158 183,855 950 950
Armstrong EdwittJames 2.0: < ois cjaceie coe c aia wie ie 4.2 Ss Scie er ever Sein. oeieies 24,183 27,955 853 _
Aw Panter, Fleteiice cite cr. ictercicioece ci ine te tiene e renee ee rineeaeeile 111,973 126,107 3,911 3,417
Bacon: Virpursta’ Paty.) 9205 2.6.5/2:5.4 023: 12.e.012.0/0,0-8 Stejeia bye a nsavejc steno nia Saree 534,393 632,940 19,629 92,716
Bareman: Robert: s0j<sjcicieerec cco 0o'se's slee cis sic sid Sonia ctieae cag seo wns 105,586 106,483 3,302 3,302
Becker; Geotpe Fitts scr cerisener ce oe eo reer eee ini oaie 922,605 1,095,501 33,974 17,048
Cooper Hewitt Acquisition Endowment Fund .............-....--.+--- 608.075 617,050 18,885 1
Denghausen, Luisita L. and Franz H., Fund ...............-..-..2005. 9,826,147 10,680,004 303,568 394,224
Dyesaucetss} Paul Bree yee icieisiie orci ceieie ete ieee pe ae ie are uststere 42,794 56.734 1,851 1,082
Friends of Music Endowment Fund ................-.0ccccceeecceeees 88,866 94,989 2,798 -
Gaver Gordon netfee cpt sce toricroysvesciaseyar eave rceistareroje-sieeielercieisiavecelinya 11,315 13,013 393 1,542
Hachenberg, George P and Caroline ................ 2c cece eee eee eee 26,593 33,300 1,033 9,517
Hammond, John, Performance Series Fund ...............20--00ee eee 343,049 352,418 10,929 17,906
Hanson, Martin Gustav and Caroline R...............00 2c e eee eee eees 56,325 69,258 2,148 12,924
Hisshhorn Collections Endowment Fund ................--.200e0e sees 7,254,733 8,343,557 313,234 390,006
Hirshhorn, Joseph H., Bequest Fund ...................-- 2c eee eee 1,872,064 2,225,269 78,429 =_
The Holensa Trust: Funds. 5.5:506.5¢.15 (55:5 ssiss.s.0 a5 sha.astaa cle oie o00 ssse 26 ace 6,870,013 7,727,118 198,664 -
Hunterdon Endowment 2:52.00 2c bois de ciorcitielslscee mise stelle Sica hslgrebrete ens 18,992,998 23,094,784 716,216 225,134
ohnsog (Eo Re Fenumore/ once an cs aceticiee cieieeeeisiremiewrelees 44,679 $1,279 1,590 10,623
Bose eMart ooo aac a cose s 6.0/0)5) a tesnlo in sic cover cieiansie\sie\e\nicieieieierelsl sie stewie 556,950 686,877 21,301 20,879
Long, Annette E'and Edith Go) 2 = ois i.e. ciclojninisisieielervie's vivo nioe ce sc. 3,191 4,242 132 960
Myers Catherine Walden 22 aereisfetcsess.sie cio rci is ceis ovoroelovsiasoie aininlesseiers ctelslnte 128,021 157,423 4,882 46,076
NoyesaFranki Bi tyet fen ots, sc e:cie.sia sain eicies aieisteiaelsie dias oieistalate te cifaiste.s 6,358 7,935 246 5,476
Novyes. Pauline Riggs. oi 1o5 oe cisisiete oc e2rcsicietoiastiaiaia siajais.s cieteieieleivie sie s'e's/s $2,745 59,424 1,843 4,933
Pell* Cosnelia Livingston ein os crscicncinnsiaieis cistorsis sinieniontste ovale iene 47,186 58,115 1,802 11,701
Ramsey, Adm. and Mrs. Dewitt Clinton (see Note 1) ..............-..-- 1,101,818 1,363,534 42,841 (2,966)
Marhbun: Richard, Memorial 72521-2505 ss0c012)0 ssa ye10,5)5:20s oisje je avass)s ajeisiet e/a synja,0;0's 67,634 83,269 2,582 27,476
Roebling Solar Research 2/2) <15/51</2/sisiase si02o0:5ja,s10is)a jena da oes sien en's 0 2's = 149,034 179,031 5,552 21,050
Ruef; Berelia, Mi ois toieicrcs sc oc aisle sisisieo ein eiele s.b'satiin sia nea ease ses 174,163 199,833 6,197 1,775
Schualez* Leonard Pesan: starsat reo iota ialals oi) ciatas zis vie' aiciabaralnestsiiseeis 127,329 146,449 4,542 23,329

225
w Table7. Endowment Funds September 30, 1992 (continued)

Principal Income
Book Market Net Unexpended
Value Value Income Balance
ES
Seidel Atchertonee tees sees tee yest ccs soe yee ee . 3,653,133 4,328,126 134,224 501,546
STLCNSOMIANVA PENCYF ACCOM Gites crate, <tccauzray spageyaiater eva ie cis ayers io) shogeregeg ete rovetsts > 1,473,830 1,745,649 54,791 6,888
Strong) UliaiD arta inet oaaisrna soe tana ead on ood at sedeepenaree ® 63,560 78,247 2,427 18,839
Witherspoon..Phomas'A.; Memorial 2.00.66 o ccs see cece sees ecieee 816,801 1,004 ,002 31,136 194,361
LT nnn nl
Subrotalty ose. e esis Peevsusiereithey suet Se euinial sind dhdichat le Tsai 56,347,302 65,633,770 2,026,855 2,062,715
Se ————————————————————— —_—_—________
TorallRestricted Purpose ccrrinsicssasscsstete cide svsisit.atieiereicoie © oie eyeinteieleiets 156,755,402 187,217,985 Deling2) 6,720,737
SSS
TOTAL ENDOW MENTEFUNDS: 25:25 fes0252 22s scaaa cee oc ote cee $292,073,712 $343,613,516 $10,620,899 $7,376,273
eos I TS

Note 1: Invested all or in part in U.S. Treasury or other nonpooled investments.

@ Table 8. Construction and Plant Funds
Fiscal Years 1991 and 1992 (in $000s)

FY 1991 FY 1992
FUNDS PROVIDED

Federal Appropnations:
National!Zoolopicall Parks o/20.2.-:<roteyoie tarnto arn reyes = SERA Set ASRS Cor reer Ta ATA roe 6,636 7,899
Restoration and Renovation of Buildings ..................22.0.. Sins chose aieye aie’ essere 0 aistare hare /eve%e me GGlale srotemva¥ererete are 31,190 23,599
Construction Planning and Minor Construction .............00 00200000 wip alee Geuewsis.caies oe ee MOM Seniors amie eeere 4,982 5,233
Tropical Research Insticuce—Tupper Research Facilities... 2... eee eee eee See Sa emecre onan 1,542 _—
National Museum of the American Indian ........... Aerie Pee eee aati at ee ee eee eee 7,391 2,370
National Museum of Natural History—East Court .................... a yenatanetatece 41 avefete ie a aviatlace acd tovd aiahei eon reravaretatefesage 1,492 9,874
GPOB—Constniction .... 2... eee cece eee seer Spee ayctclstegr aye aseciayatere Seer Sandee ee _ 1,678
Total Federal Appropriations .. Sere voseteians Se Pee enaia terest cere aoe saga haiote lauding s/Spusshatees tetas 53,233 50,653

Nonappropnated Trust Funds:
Income—Gift and Other

Environmental! Research Centen tcc. cscs hove <isvere stste ois 0.8 trovsisns Oe yore s PS iaio ove Se sepivs 'o inva atone Fars Ntelstsene ade ove swecneet ee 37 149
Tropical Research Insticuce—Tupper Research Facilities ..... . § sisisless 5 os SOOe Oh RAT RG le ole ee nme EEGs ee tee ees (222)* 576
Cooper-Hewitt Museum ................... wjeseveseiere.? . Weyeials siausin atetale aia sale sape esi ejere eee eee ee 49 57
Visitor Information and Reception Center... 2... eee eee balcleisoleis, Bjadvaleielaidte wale (109)* 10
National Museum of the American Indian ............... Bee Doak oaersie ha alah aCdevais- oases Bd AO ee 128 2,022
Breer Gallery;and! A udicornunm sie. eo5i5.0.0: oie: syoid' ote. oie o. 01g: e00o-o; bce he aig aig) ieia ainiaia S/Sls gsGce 2:2 f= w'bre Sle aials, ahanangl Meversveereeie <4 2,114 686
Natural Museum of Natural History Gem Hall .. 2.2202 eee eee sieubi elses a avg leyalzyaarsdule Srecoeperete e 532 352
Natural Museum of Natural History Insect Zoo... . . son aes Maye sch heise suet Whaat Oawasindee nee eee — 105
pVOtall Imcomes ato teterae crass cjsincs visie ea teiste soos occealtiorare cual ots ein. eletatnd Hed aatate se Siais is Bie dveafe te fax favauatn ald Sacra ered aratate 2,529 3,957

Transfers from Other Fund's:

INationallMusetim af thes American Gian craic ors ss -avo-0ia-cavoretomtejave embers eichuvare » m eierare’ ere Gie-e Bit led Guar oraia arate lersyeyeceveleeree axe — 950
Cooper-Hewitt Museum ..........--...-. Bis a/esieiaichas eres soe nansle eteraiere ROR OR ai atenexerst ra sian stcle senate 358 —
Natural Museum of Natural History Gem Hall ........ 2. 2222....-. geo ey mw espe ei Souda fu a aaovatessicravarerereseyeese (48)* (202)*
Natural Museum of Natural History Insect Zoo... ene eee e eee e eee e eee e ee eeeeees — (6)*
Quadrangle and Related ...............-...... Be etiaelo cle nee. sie ehblitsajasic'siauo s afarsrarakelshale) ohare) atholatel eters ishofare (2,063)* =
otal Mcamshersy cect te, oo cnys shavers g sfaneraieie oe speiene aie ae osers'e%s avershrs 20% .aaterscsie J eases Sew avel eines & cocoa sorcerers) eau senrdyereabaceissers (1,753) 742
MotaliPunds: Prowided hss ocs.c.c50 cies Doel cece odes. 6 oaths © ooo wns Sim iniein ee, beso eiehe einen cane ie ern eors chet rete ene $54,009 $55,352

* Funds reclassified to current operaung funds.

226
Coopers & Lybrand
Certified Public Accountants

Report of Independent Accountants

To The Board of Regents

Smithsonian Insturution

We have audited the accompanying statement of financial condition
of the Smithsonian Institution as of September 30, 1992, and the
related statements of financial activity and cash flows for the year then
ended. We previously audited and reported upon the financial state-
ments of the Smithsonian Instirution for the year ended September
30, 1991, totals of which are included in the accompanying financial
statements for comparative purposes only. These financial statements
are the responsibility of the Institution’s management. Our responsi-
bility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on
our audit.

We conducted our audit in accordance with generally accepted
auditing standards and generally accepted government auditing stan-
dards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements
are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a
test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the
financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting
principles used and significant estimates made by management, as
well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We
believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present
fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Smith-
sonian Institution as of September 30, 1992, and the results of its
operations and its cash flows for the year then ended, in conformity
with generally accepted accounting principles.

Washington, D.C. ~~
December 23, 1992

Smithsonian Institution Statement of Financial Condition, September 30, 1992
(with comparative totals for September 30, 1991) (thousands of dollars)

Trust Federal Torals, Totals,
funds funds all funds 1991
ASSETS:
Fund ibalances;ewith US: ‘Treasury and Cash. $.2/3021<0:26s)125/06 we.c'e acca nas cance cdesse facie $ 2,560 $158,587 $ 161,147 $150,003
Investments (Note 5 p25. 8 e.ccccic cevcrercyel ave eaten evoke is Tete SISTE aha tea eamiaraitiack io ieressie Bas 377,233 _ 377,233 326,610
Recervables (NOte)S) crsaeta avin tbettcrchchcavteele Pravsvers sisters efor sia Sits ae Have sletsial digs aes @aramEtee 48,650 11,943 60,593 55,055
Advance payments (Note:6) issee Sorat eo aa See eee seve dan we ebies _ 12,635 12,635 12,980
ER VORUROEIOS sooo casas 2 eco s Sas oicia asia iNet g sve lat eset SsievD. fy oi Wee o eiclO a ale aOR EON OOS 18,181 1,681 19,862 19,121
Prepaid \deferred expense and other, | :,. 2 <2/-/a'2d iets cise teas eis cc Sao bs ete cde eee ceeeen 21,483 — 21,483 17,835
Property/and equipment (Note) nae oscn oo nc cae nd ean Oat on seco aeame nee 77,270 311,553 388,823 359,442
Colleceions (Note iL) ¥ sec ois ereoi ciearo cia ooo ee Eee es Pea coib Se a TNRS Peis _ _— — _
otallassets (ona coe are ae Ie ne Hee enna aiaena tne cece $545,377 $496,399 $1,041,776 $941,046
LIABILITIES:
Accounts payable andiaccrued expenses (</.). 22.5 sansa consists ice sates das vie aise eanectlst $ 23,949 $ 30,410 $ 54,359 $ 49,694
Inverkund payables reese an ce coe e occa tiuaievarerteieveisia ave Saif a-eraie ayahe. alaetetaale 11,617 — 11,617 8,887
Payable for investment ‘securities purchased |. /225.6.<.¢ < s:0:4/e.0:s10ieie:e'oisie)n s/o» 0 sia oaieeieie aie eyetsbeele 16,148 — 16,148 8,007
Deposits held in custody for other organizations (Note 2) ............02.-00c cece eee eee 5,839 — 5,839 4,476
Accrued annural leave). s2:55)s aan sisicelc Sainione oe ys eso Seabee Oba e oa cwsmald eedt aie 3,437 11,483 14,920 13,583
Deferred reventie sicyccris cose sso ee aie ne AE Ee Ne Le ee ae alaialele wicks AisieSo TER Sats 50,497 50,497 36,655
Long-term Gebt(NOte’9) titties neyeieisinne ete aie leirerreie lessen acta terernva ein safe ctorsinisiateisaieeiee 13,113 = 13,113 10,714
Total ltabslicies ji:5. js: cyctev isan ce Mine aloaienaaeine oileneadiehd ged hoe hse See ea Mawes 124,600 41,893 166,493 132,016
Wrihelivereccd orcheces joo oro eos yacs eset 551 sske ss sin 38) 253s Savoy ay esate aia ay oa byniw isa stara)e ayelate avoibvrataneys _ 68,713 68,713 81,786
Commitments and contingencies (Note 8)
FUND BALANCES:
Trust—Current (Note 15):
Wareseicted general purpose: 8 «oe ocser< o.oo <jainiasaia ca) efa o/Gin eiujns sis eins a) sveinseresefessiaieiele\elela:2erers 9,959 _ 9.959 13,772
Specialipumpose temas asescpe ct gay tee cele ceo c ae ac iceie a iejnisls/aaystajsiarclsistereisieis se telate 27,557 _ 27,557 31,115
Restricted Wissen Be te) ena. Sale ee eee ee te ee scald lelnte Mbials glgace serait Me ctiow 28,132 _ 28,132 21,036
Trust—Endowment and similar funds (Note 4) .......... 2.00 c cece cece eee eee eee ee eee 292,074 — 292.074 265,371
Arust—Planc finds (Note :7)) 0c sle sissies staicie esa yesnseia\a/o's oss aha, 1a vavain/eierapajavoiavetetele eiereietemieye 63,055 — 63,055 60,392
Federal— Operating funds (Note:10)):< <2: 1s:<isret0:c}sisisi2j2iv.e) «1 <'0i 0; 1a) «:ysieis.cjsie's eis /eleisiaveisisi> sieie' share — 15,977 15,977 8,089
Federal—Construction funds) oi::scc-oscct orto he 5 Sel cs os nov awdectemecsiendieeiesdleceleces _ 56,582 56,582 43,629
Kederal——Canical finds 5,27. js,2,-)sc0s cco lta wis tase a teva: cs tiaie andere, cccieyasa jose eiaje ers na o's) wre ererslevecs _ 313,234 313,234 233,840
Moocall fasricl 'boakarices isco tec ooo alas co cia ere os aisle folate (ala sie ora tarecela a wieie ete escistaia eialavatate 420,777 385,793 806,570 727,244
Total liabilities, undelivered orders and fund balances ............20-2 0-0 eee e ee eees $545,377 $496,399 $1,041,776 $941,046
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements
227
Smithsonian Institution Statement of Financial Activity for the year ended September 30, 1992
(with comparative totals for the year ended September 30, 1991) (thousands of dollars)

Trust funds Federal funds
Endow-
ment

Totals. Current and Totals. Con-

crust funds sumilar Plant federal Operating struction Capital Totals, Totals,

funds (Note 15) funds funds funds funds funds funds all funds 1991
REVENUE AND OTHER ADDITIONS:
Appropriations (Note 10) ........... $ — $ — $ — $ — $331,836 $281,183 $50,653 $ — $331,836 $326,113
Government grants and contracts .... 42,689 42,689 — - - — — — 42,689 36,801
Investment income ................ 14,563 14,170 — 393 — — _ — 14,563 15,671
Net gain on sale of securities ........ 17,790 _ 17,790 - — _ — _ 17,790 4,007
Gifts, bequests and other grants ..... 45,007 40,110 1,334 3,563 — — = — 45,007 25,596
Additions to plant (Note 7) ......... 3,032 — — 3,032 62,597 _ — 62,597 65,629 51,605
Rentals, fees, commissions and other

(WNoreslO)E eine tom ete ecto too : 6,046 6,046 — = 1,473 1,473 _ _— 7,519 7,423

Auxiliaty:actuvities;.:.5 5. s.eg 2). - 188,596 188,591 5 — — - = ~ 188,596 188,355

Total revenue and other

ACCIVIONS? eyeyerne see eepatare reer siers bs Wires) 291.606 19,129 6,988 395.906 282.656 50,653 62,597 713,629 655,571
ee ee ee ee eee
EXPENDITURES AND OTHER
DEDUCTIONS:
Research, educational, and collection
acquisition (Note 11) ............ 93,519 93,519 — aa 174,678 74,678 = — 268,197 239,724
Administration ......... sate spRT ORS 23,343 23,343 — — 26,575 26,575 — _ 49,918 59,269
Facilitiesiservices (0.2) sue. .e.csexecoreieys's) ore 2,400 2,400 _ — 75,408 75,408 — — 77,808 73,908
Acquisition of plant ..... Ss tiH8 2,439 — — 2,439 37,700 — 37,700 — 40,139 47,924
Property use and depreciation
(INOCES7) iecass sestiysve cisse.sresese eae , 2,629 — — 2,629 33,203 — = 33,203 35,832 31,640
Auxiliary activities... 2.2.0... ae 164,302 164,302 _ — _ — — 164,302 164,291

Total expenditures and other
deductions: 3: give 5 Sect os 288.632 283,564 _ 5,068 347,564 276,661 37,700 33,203 636,196 616,756

Excess of revenue and other
additions over expenditures and

other deductions ............ 29,091 8,042 19,129 1,920 48,342 5,995 12,953 29,394 77,433 38,815
TRANSFERS AMONG FUNDS—
additions (deductions) (Note 12) ... _ (8,317) 7.574 743 — — — a — —
Net increase (decrease) for the
Vean eye ocesc Pererstetanena’ se ts 29,091 (275) 26,703 2,663 48,342 5.995 12,953 29,394 77,433 38,815
Increase in unobligated balances
(Nocel10) te see cess osee = = = = 1,893 1,893 = = 1,893 829
Fund balances at beginning of year ... 391,686 65,923 265.371 60,392 335,558 8,089 43,629 283,840 727,244 687,600
FUND BALANCES AT END OF
BYARG? crcressrcvesersts trustiacoareiere on Ores $420,777 $ 65,648 $292,074 $63,055 $385,793 $ 15,977 $56,582 $313,234 $806,570 $727,244

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

Smithsonian Institution Combined Statement of Cash Flows for the year ended September 30, 1992
(with comparative totals for the year ended September 30, 1991) (thousands of dollars)

een | 2” SERIES tee th 1991
Trust Federal Total Total
CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES:
Excess of revenue and other additions over expenditures and other deductions ............. $ 29,091 $ 48,342 $ 77,433 $ 38,814
Adjustments to reconcile cash provided by operating activities:
PE PLeCiatlo myers acco ci isc Se See ee oc aidis's oraie.0 cldsie aide naelsw aw se ees 5,028 25,830 30,858 27,658
Provision for losses on accounts receivable ... 2.2.2.2. 22 eee eee ee 4,006 a 4,006 5,276
Gain on disposition of investments ............. 00. e cece cece cece ee eeeeeeees (17,790) _— (17,790) (4,007)
Increasejiniunoblipated (balances) <..<24 cacsise = see se tec.neeisscesesecuge ose sein temic — 1,893 1,893 829

228
Smithsonian Institution Combined Statement of Cash Flows for the year ended September 30, 1992
(with comparative totals for the year ended September 30, 1991) (thousands of dollars)

(Increase) decrease}inirecetvables) 5. (-.-1./-):.e 21-1202 oferty sieeve eit ere te
(Increase) decrease in merchandise inventory .........-.------0--ee-2005
(Increase) decrease in prepaid, deferred expense and other ...............
Decteasejiniadvance payments. ois. coss yt oes ieee nage 2 eine ci tase io arsed foe
Increase in accounts payable and accrued expenses ...........-...-------
Increase in deposits held in custody ...........-2. 0200-2 e cece eee eee
Increase (decrease) in deferred revenue .............2.002 0022s
Increase (decrease) in undelivered orders ............-.---- 202 eee ee eee

Net cash provided by operating activities ............--..---.---000--

CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES:

Proceeds from sale of property and equipment .........-...---.--------s
Payments for purchase of property and equipment .........-..---..--.-+--
Purchases of invescmenc securities -/2))-;2:5¢/< sare: orist na oe haeeae ie Se eiainis
Proceeds from sale of investment securities .............0-.20-00- 2022 eee ee

Net cash used for investing activities .............0.22-20 2202 eee eee

CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES:

Proceeds from issuance of long-term debt ............---.-222- 2-20-0000
Payments on long-term debt) .)-. <2. <.c09.2.0/s2ere ois. ka sierais syste apaase oat Nageve loro

Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities ..............-.....
Net increase in cash and fund balances with U.S. Treasury .............----.

1991
Trust Federal Total Toral
Pei hind hi dey (1,829) 107 (1,722) (287)
PPS Seti te (826) 85 (741) (825)
or she aia (3,648) _ (3,648) 316
3 eRe ore a= 345 345 5.626
sidratadseRveuereRe 3,371 1,188 4,559 3,910
« Sragoacda pares 1,363 _ 1,363 944
Seba BOO Oo 11,146 _ 11,146 (4,312)
So susye}etysy Sleneisys — (13,073) (13,073) 10,099
Sess aaa 29,912 64,717 94,629 84,041
Sd doe cebeietes 15 _ 15 _
Siataiiove Aepeyavegste (5,265) (54,572) (59,837) (48,766)
aye verege eave euteate (509,374) _ (509,374) (574,418)
ioseravete Aen 483,312 _— 483,312 576,474
wafess nase spaie/ars (31,312) (54,572) (85,884) (46,710)
svacsiayeetateatayas 3,800 — 3,800 _
nals era ares Sree (1,401) _ (1,401) (387)
ee eee 2,399 _ 2,399 (387)
shesaa dtestetale ere 999 10,145 11,144 36,944
Sie ahs Sls torae aye 1,561 148,442 150,003 113,059
Gwait¥atapeyavatepaysse $ 2,560 $158,587 $ 161,147 $ 150,003

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements.

Smithsonian Institution

Notes to Financial Statements

1. Summary of Significant Accounung Policies
Basis of Presentation

These financial statements do not include the accounts of the National Gallery
of Art, the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts or the Woodrow
Wilson International Center for Scholars, which were established by Congress

The financial scarements of the Instivution with respect to Federal Appro-
pfiations have been prepared on the obligation basis of accounting, which is in
accordance with accounting principles prescribed by the Comprroller General
of the United States as set forth in the Policy and Procedures Manual for Guid-
ance of Federal Agencies. The obligation basis of accounting differs in some
respects from generally accepted accounting principles. Under this method of
accounting, approximately $43,903,000 of commitments of the operating
fund, such as purchase orders and contracts, have been recognized as expendi-
tures, and the related obligations have been reported on the Statement of Fi-
nancial Condition ar September 30, 1992 even though the goods and services
have not been received. Approzimarely $11,964,000 of these commitments
are for grants under the foreign currency program. Approximately
$11,088,000 of these commitments are for internal storage facilities and
equipment at the Museum Support Center. In addition, construction fund
commitments for other projects amounted to approximately $24,810,000 at
September 30, 1992.

The crust funds reflect the receipt and expenditure of funds obtained from
Private sources, government grants and contracts, investment income and cer-
tain business activities related to the operations of the Institution.

Fund Accounting

To ensure observance of the limitations and restrictions placed on the use of re-
sources available to the Insticution, accounts are maintained in accordance
with the principles of fund accounting. This procedure classifies resources for
control, accounting and reporting purposes into distinct funds established
according to their approp iation, nature and purposes. Separate accounts are
maintained for each fund; however, in the accompanying financial statements,
funds that have similar characteriszics have been combined into fund groups.
Accordingly, all financial transactions have been recorded and reported by
fund group.

The assets, liabilities and fund balances of the Institution are self-
as follows:

Federal operating funds represent the portion of appropriated funds avail-
able for support of Institution operations. Separate subfund groups are main-
tained for each appropriation as follows: Salaries and Expense, Special Foreign
Currency, Barro Colorado Island Trust Fund.

Federal construction funds represent the portion of appropriated funds
available for building and facility construction, restoration, renovation and re-
pair. Separate subfund groups are maintained for each appropriation—Con-
struction and Improvements, National Zoological Park, Repairs and
Restoration of Buildings, Museum Support Center and the Center for African,
Near Eastern and Asian Cultures (Quadrangle).

|

22

\o
Federal capttal fund's represent the value of those assets of the Institution ac-

quired with federal funds and nonexpendable property transters from govern-
ment agencies.

Trust current funds, which include unrestricted and restricted resources. rep-

resent the portion of non-appropmiated funds available for support of Institu-
tion operations. Separate subfund groups of current unrestricted funds have
been reflected in the financial statements for auxiliary activities (representing
primarily the revenue and expenditures of the Smithsonian Associate Pro-
grams, including Smithsonian magazine and Air & Space /Smuithsonian maga-
zine, museum shop and mail order sales) and for special purposes
(representing internally segregated funds for certain designated purposes).
Amountss restricted by the donor for specific purposes are segregated from
other current funds.

Trust endowment and simuar funds include funds that are subject to restric-
tions of gift instruments requiring in perpetuity that the principal be invested
and that only income be uulized. Also classified as endowment and similar
funds are gifts which allow the expenditure of principal only under certain
specified conditions. Quasi-endowment funds are tunds established by the
governing board for the same purposes as endowment funds; however, any

portion of such funds may be expended with board approval. Restricted quasi-

endowment funds represent gifts for restricted purposes where there is no stip-
ulation that the principal be maintained in perpetuity or for a period of ume,
but the governing board has elected to invest the principal and expend only
the income for the purpose stipulated by the donor.

Trust plant funds represent resources restricted for furure plant acquisitions
and funds expended for plant.

Interfund Balances

Interfund balances result from short-term advances/ borrowings between Insti-
tution funds and are repaid, without interest, on a continual basis.

Investments

All investment income, except that of endowment and similar funds, and
gains and losses arising from the sale of investments and property, are ac-
counted for in the fund in which the related assets are recorded. Income of
endowment and similar funds is accounted for in the fund ro which it is re-
stricted or, if unrestricted, as revenue in unrestricted current funds. Gains and
losses on the sale of investments are recognized on the trade date basis using
the average cost method.

Inventory

Inventories are carried at the lower of cost or market. Cost is determined using
the first-in, first-out (FIFO) method, standard cost method or retail cost
method (for those inventories held for resale).

Deferred Revenue and Expense

Revenue from subscriptions to Smithsonian magazine and Air & Space /Smuth-

sonian magazine is recorded as income over the period of the related subscrip-
uon, which is generally one year. Costs related to obtaining subscriptions to
Smithsonian magazine and Arr & Space /Smuthsonian magazine are charged
against income over the period of the subscription.

The Institution recognizes revenue and charges expenses of other auxiliary
activities during the period in which the activity is conducted.

Works of Art, Living or Other Specimens

The Institution acquires its collections, which include works of art, library
books, photographic archives, objects and specumens, through purchase by
federal or private funds or by donation. In accordance with policies generally
followed by museums, no value is assigned to the collections on the statement
of financial condition. Purchases for the collections are expensed currently.
Proceeds from deaccessions are designated for future collection acquisitions.

Property and Equipment—Federal Funds

Property and equipment purchased with federal funds are recorded in the cap-
ital funds at cost and depreciated on a straight-line basis over their useful lives
as follows:

230

Buildings 30 years
Mayor renovations 15 years
Nonexpendable equipment 10 years

Certain lands occupied by the Institution's buildings were appropriated and
reserved by Congress for the Instirution and are not reflected in the accom-
panying financial statements. Property and nonexpendable equipment ac-
quired through transfer from government agencies are capitalized at the
transfer price or at estumated amounts, taking into consideration usefulness,
condition and market value.

Property and Equipment— Trust Funds

Property and equipment purchased with trust funds for use by nonincome-
producing activities are recorded at cost, or appraised value at date of gift, ex-
cept for gifts of certain islands in the Chesapeake Bay and the Carnegie Man-
sion, which have been recorded at nominal values. Property and equipment
are treated as a deduction of the current fund and as a capitalized cost of the
plant fund.

Propery and equipment for use by nonincome-producing activities is depre-
ciated on the straight-line basis over their useful lives as follows:

Buildings 30 years
Major renovations 15 years
Equipment 10 years

Depreciation ts recorded in the plant fund as a deduction to the investment
in plant.

Capital improvements and equipment purchased with trust funds and uu-
lized in income-producing activities are capitalized at cost in the current fund
and are depreciated on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives of
3 to 10 years.

Government Grants and Contracts

The Insticution has a number of grants and contracts with the U.S. Govern-
ment, which primarily provide for cost reumbursement to the Insticuuon. Gov-
emmental grant and contract revenue is recognized within trust funds as
expenditures are incurred.

Pledges

The Institution generally records pledges based upon letters signed by donors.
Pledges are recorded at net realizable value as a receivable and as deferred rev-
enue on the statement of financial condition. Revenue from pledges is recog-
nized in the year the pledged funds are collected.

Gifts, Bequests and Other Grants

The Insticution recognizes revenue from gifts, bequests and other grants in the
year the cash is received.

Contnbuted Services

A substanual number of unpaid volunteers have made significant contribu-
uons of their time in the furtherance of the Instirution’s programs. This con-
tributed time is not reflected in these statements since no objective basis is
available to determine the value of these services.

Annual Leave

The Institution's civil service employees earn annual leave in accordance with
federal laws and regulations. However, only the cost of leave taken as salaries is
funded and recorded as an expense. The cost of unused annual leave at year-
end is reflected in the accompanying financial statements as an asset and an ac-
crued liability in the federal funds.

Annual leave for trust employees is accrued as a liability and expensed in the
trust fund, as earned.

2. Related Activities

The Instutuuon provides certain fiscal and administrative services to several
separately incorporated organizations in which certain officials of the Institu-
uon serve on the governing boards. The amounts paid to the Instirution by
these organizations for the aforementioned services, together with rent for In-
stitution facilities occupied, totaled $265.000 ($190.000 for the crust funds
and $75,000 for the federal funds) for the year ended September 30, 1992.
Deposits held in custody for these organizations were $5,839,000 as of Sep-
tember 30, 1992.

3. Investments

Investments are recorded at cost on a trade date basis, if purchased, or esti-
mated fair market value at date of acquisition, if acquired by gift. At Septem-
ber 30, 1992, investments were composed of the following:

Carrying Market
value value
at S0n0s ya S005)
Carrent funds:
Short-term invesumencs $ 62.502 $ 63,102
Endowment and simular funds:
Pooled investments:
Short-term 48,724 51,292
U.S. Government and quasi-government obligations 70.587 73,360
Corporate bonds and other obligations 53.309 56,882
Common and preferred stock 124,365 166.954
Subtotal pooled investments 296,985 348.488
Non-pooled investments:
Deposit with U.S. Treasury 1,036 1,072
Chantable crusts 595 834
Subtotal non-pooled investments 1,631 1,906
298.616 350.394
Plant funds:
Common stock 125 215
U.S. Government securities 15,990 16,110
16,115 16,325
Total investments $377,233 $429,821

The deposit with the U.S. Treasury is invested in U.S. Government securi-
ties at a variable yield based on market interest rates.

Substantially all the investments of the endowment and similar funds are
pooled on a market value basis (consolidated fund) with each individual fund
subscribing to or disposing of units on the basis of the per unit market value at
the beginning of the month within which the transaction takes place. Of the
total units, each having a market value of $410.20, 323,919 units were owned
by endowment funds, and 525,629 units were owned by quasi-endowment
funds at September 30, 1992.

The following tabulation summarizes changes in relationships between cost
and market values of the pooled investments at September 30, 1992.

($000s) Market
Net value

Market Cost change per unit

End of year $348,488 $296,985  $51.503 $410.20

Beginning of year 312,261 263,884 48,377 «378.07
Increase in unrealized net

gain for the year 3,126 -

Realized net gain for
the year 17.790 =_
Total net gains for the
year $20,916 $ 32.13

4. Endowment and Similar Funds

The Institution utilizes the ‘‘toral rerurn’’ approach to invesement manage-
ment of endowment funds and quasi-endowment funds. Under this approach,
an amount equal to the difference between actual interest and dividends
earned during the year and the amount computed under the total recur for-
mula is transferred to of from the current funds.

In applying this approach, it is the Instirution’s policy to provide, as being
available for current expenditures, an amount taking into consideration such

factors as, but not limited to: (1) 4'/2% of the five-year average of the market
value of each fund (adjusted for gifts and transfers during this period), (2) cur-
rent dividend and interest yield, (3) support needs for bureaus and scientists,
and (4) inflationary factors as measured by the Consumer Price Index. How-
ever, where the market value of the assets of any endowment fund is less than
110% of the historic dollar value (value of gifts at date of donation), the
amount provided is limited to only interest and dividends received.

The total recurn factor for 1992 was $12.50 per unit, equivalent to 4% of
the five-year average of the Market Value of each participating fund. The total
rerurn amount exceeded actual dividends and interest earned for the year and
this excess was transferred from the endowment funds to the current funds (see
Note 12).

The endowment fund balance is comprised of the following at September
30, 1992:

($000s)
Endowment—unrestricted $ 7,793
Endowment—restricted 100,408
Quasi-endowment—unrestricted 127,526
Quasi-endowment—restricted 56.347
$292,074
5. Receivables
Receivables at September 30, 1992 included the following:
($0005)
Totals,
Trust Federal all
funds funds funds
Auniliary activities and other accounts
receivable, net of $5,854 allowance for
doubeful accounts $18,626 $ — $18,626
Receivables for investment securities sold 7,541 — 7,541
Pledges receivable 3,693 - 3,693
Reimbursements due from grants and
conuracts 3,550 _ 3,550
Interest and dividends receivable 3,604 - 3,604
Interfund receivables 11,617 _ 11,617
Accrued annual leave — 11,483 11,483
Other 19 460 479

6. Advance Payments

Advance payments represent prepayments made to government agencies, edu-
cauonal insticuuons, firms and individuals for services to be rendered, or prop-
erty or materials to be furnished.

As of September 30, 1992, the most significant advances outstanding were:
$6,753,000 to the General Services Administration, principally for construc-
ton services including the Museum Support Center and other projects to be
completed in future fiscal years; and approximately $1,608,000, principally
under the Special Foreign Currency Program.

7. Property and Equipment

At September 30, 1992, property and equipment were comprised of the
following:

($000s) ($000s)
Trust
Current funds

Capital improvemenss $ 24,143
t 11,148
3,981
Leasehold improvements 1,170
40,442

Less: accumulated depreciation and

amoruzation (17,347)

22,895

231
Plant funds

Land and buildings 67.083
Equipment 8.070
75153
Less: accumulated depreciation “ (20.778)
54.375
Total. crust funds $ 77.270
Federal
Capital funds
Property $ 513.916
Equipment 45.743
559.659
Less: accumulated depreciation (248,106)
Total, federal funds 311.553
Total, all funds $388.823

Included in the accumulated depreciation of the federal capital funds is
$25 830,000 of depreciation expense for 1992.

Depreciation and amortization expense in the trust funds for fiscal year
1992 for income-producing assets amounted to $2,399,000 and is included in
auxiliary activities expenditures in the current funds. Depreciation of non-
income-producing equipment and buildings for 1992 amounted to
$2,629,000 and ts included in the plant fund.

The balance of the plant fund at September 30, 1992 included $8,680,000
of unexpended funds for future plant acquisitions.

8. Commitments and Contingencies

Leases for various Smithsonian warehouse and office spaces provide for escala-
uon of rents to coincide with increases in property taxes, operating expenses
attributable to the leased property and the Consumer Price Index.

The Institution's operating leases require future minimum lease payments
as follows:

Lease payments ($000s)
1993 $ 9.513

1994 7,598
1995 5.343
1996 1,724
1997 1,108
Thereafter 2.877
$28,163

Rental expense for office faciliues aggregated approximately $10,407,000 in
1992.

The Institution receives funding or reimbursement from governmental
agencies for various activities, which are subject to audit. Audits of sponsored
program costs have been completed through the fiscal year ending September
30, 1989, however, final resolution from the cognizant agency for audits of fis-
cal years 1983 through 1989 has not occurred. Any adjustments which may re-
sult from those audits and the audits for fiscal years 1990 through 1992 are not
expected to have a material effect on the Insticution’s financial starements.

9. Long-term Debt

Long-term debt as of September 30, 1992 consists of the following:
($000s)

9% note payable to The Riggs Nauonal Bank, interest only payable
quarterly commencing December 31, 1986; interest and principal
payable quarterly commencing September 30, 1991, unul June 30,

1998, with the remaining unpaid pnncipal balance due June 30, 1998 $ 9,503

Note payable to Signet Bank, bearing interest at 1% in excess of the
Federal Funds Rate, which was 5.5% at September 30, 1992; interest
and principal payable in quarterly installments of $63.000 unul
December 31, 1996, with the remaining unpaid principal balance due
December 31. 1996.

232

The aggregate amount due for all borrowings for the years ending Septem-
ber 30, are as follows: $1,.577.000 in 1993: $1,700,000 in 1994; $1,835,000 in
1995; $1,982,000 in 1996; $2,143,000 in 1997 and $3,876,000 in years
thereafter.

The proceeds of the note with The Riggs National Bank were used to fund
construction of a restaurant addition to the National Air and Space Museum.
The proceeds of the note with Signet Bank were used to finance a warehouse
facility for Institution museum shops. During the fiscal year ended September
30, 1992, approximately $1,085,000 was recorded as interest expense and was
paid by Auxiliary Activities funds.

10. Federal Operating Funds

The federal operating funds include appropriations for salaries and expenses
which are expended in the year received. Also included are amounts approx-
imating $25,475,000 received with the provision that such amounts can be ex-
pended over a period greater than one year.

On November 5, 1990, the U.S. Congress enacted Public Law 101-510, the
Defense Authorization Act (Act), which prescribes the rules for determining
the availability of appropriation balances and establishes the procedures for
closing appropriation accounts.

The major purpose of the Act is to restructure annual appropriation ac-
counts. Beginning with the fiscal year 1989 appropriation accounts, agencies
are now required to maintain annual appropriations for a five-year period fol-
lowing the year of appropriation. At the end of an appropriation’s five-year
life, the appropriation account is closed and any unobligated balances are then
returned to the U.S. Treasury. The Act also provides for the phasing out of un-
expended previous year's appropriations as of September 30, 1993.

Under the Act, unobligated balances of annual appropriation accounts will
remain on the Institution's records unul the appropriation accounts are closed.

The federal operating funds for the year ended September 30, 1992 in-
cluded the following:

($000s)
Revenues and
other additions Fund balance/at
Appropriations Other September 30, 1992
Salaries and expenses $281,183 $ — $15,274
Special Foreign Currency Program _— — 273
U.S. India Fund (transfers from
Department of State) = 1,319 361
Smithsonian Tropical Research
Insticute — 154 69
$281,183 $1,473 $15.977

On July 11, 1990, a settlement was awarded in the amount of $3,022,350
arising out of a suit against the United States by a contractor who was de-
faulted by the General Services Administration for failure to complete a proj-
ect for the Museum Support Center in a timely fashion. This mandatory
obligation falls outside the provisions of the Antideficiency Act. According to
accounung principles prescribed by the Comptroller General of the United
States, the Insuruuion recognized this expense, in fiscal year 1990, when settle-
ment by the United States resulted in an operating fund deficit. The Institu-
uon received appropriations in fiscal year 1992 of approximately $994,000 as a
partial payment of the claim. The Instirution will request appropriated funds
in fiscal years 1993 and 1994 to pay the balance of the claim.

The Institution has recorded an unrealized loss of $54,000 to reflect ex-
change rate changes related to the U.S. India Fund.

11. Collections

In accordance with policies generally followed by museums, collections pur-
chased and donated are not included in the statement of financial cor.Jition.
The Institution records the acquisition of collections as an expense in the year
of purchase and records the deaccession of collections as restricted revenue in
the year of sale. For fiscal year 1992, $8,340,000 was expensed to trust funds
and $1,587,000 to federal funds for the acquisition of collections, and pro-
ceeds from deaccessions in trust funds were $635,000. There were no deacces-
sions of collections purchased with federal funds in fiscal year 1992.

12. Transfers Among Trust Funds

The following transfers increased (decreased) respective fund balances for the
year ended September 30, 1992:

($000s)
Current funds Endowment
Unre- and similar Plant
stricted Restricted funds funds
Total rerum income from
ty $ 232 $ 277 $ (509) $—
Income reallocated for special
(44) 44 = =
Endowment reallocated to
restnicted and unrestricted
funds 462 4,260 (4,722)
Designated 2s quasi-
endowment (4,152) (8.477) 12,629 —
Other 196 (1,115) 176 743
Total transfers among funds $(3.306) $(5.011) $ 7.574 $743

13. Reurement

The federal employees of the Institution are covered by either the Civil Service
Retirement System (CSRS) or the Federal Employee Retirement System

15. Current Trust Funds Financial Activity
The financial activity for the current trust funds by fund type is as follows:

(FERS). The feacures of both of these systems are defined in published govern-
ment documents. Under both systems, the Institution withholds from the sal-
ary of each federal employee the percentage of salary required; the Instiruuon
also contributes specified percentages. The cost of the programs for the year
ended September 30, 1992 was $13,021,000.

The Insticution has a separate retirement plan for trust employees, in which
substantially all employees of the trust funds are eligible to participate. Under
the plan the Insticution contributes supulated percentages of salary which are
used to purchase individual annuities, the rights to which are immediately
vested with the employees. Employees can make voluntary contribuuons, sub-
ject to certain limitations. The Institution's cost of the plan for the year ended
September 30, 1992 was $7,285,000.

It is the policy of the Insticution to fund the accrued costs of all plans cur-
rently. There are no unfunded prior service costs under the plans.

14. Income Taxes

The Institution is exempt from income taxation under the provisions of Sec-
tion 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code. Organizations described in that
section are taxable only on their unrelated business income. No provision for
income taxes is required for the year ended September 30, 1992 since the Insti-
tution had a net loss from unrelated business activity.

It is the opinion of the Institution thar it is also exempt from taxation as an
instrumentality of the United States as defined in Section 501(c)(1) of the
Code. Organizations described in that section are exempt from all income tax-
ation. The Institution has not as yet formally sought such dual starus.

($000s)
Toul
General Auxiliary Special Unrestricted
purpose activities purpose funds Restricted Toral
Revenue and other additions
Government grants and contracts $ —- $ - $ — $ — $42,689 $ 42,689
Investment income 7.616 _ 562 8.178 5.992 14,170
Gifts. bequests and other grants 189 8,034 960 9,183 30.927 40.110
Rentals, fees, commissions and other 343 —_ 2,842 3,185 2,861 6,046
Auniliary activiues _- 180,312 8,279 188,591 - 188,591
Total revenue and other additions 8,148 188,346 12,643 209,137 82,469 291,606
Expendirures and other deductions:
Research, educational and acquisition 10,677 — 19,341 30,018 63,501 93,519
Administration 7,742 8,197 346 16,485 6,858 23,343
Facilities services 1,551 — 846 2.397 3 2,400
Auziliary activities - 159.170 5,132 164,302 - 164,302
Total expendirures and other deductions 19.970 167,367 25,865 213,202 70,362 283,564
Excess of revenue and other additions over
(under) expenditures and other deductions (11,822) 20,979 (13,222) (4,065) 12,107 8,042
Transfers among funds—aedditions (deductions) 8,009 (20,979) 9.664 (3.306) (5,011) (8,317)
Net increase for the year (3,813) _ (3.538) (7,371) 7,096 (275)
Fund balances ar beginning of year 13,772 - 31,115 44,887 21.036 65,923
Fund balances at end of year $9.9399 $ — $27,557 $ 37.516 $28,132 $ 65,648

233
i ere tiie Soh imny sagt"
hay yen up waits Ai

ye ale 99 abe sit Wa ane toi eh) cel et

Pyrat dele Shh eed) , x) 4
na Draiieris ve Lea Wh bth! ertMnts i ae
’ r hae pel often’ yrs rah S:

cna oht

Ab oi =

ad ‘e | | | Tsai xe
’ chi ee a ‘1s8115 eee

en - ‘ 7

il

) a
¥
T
1
vs
Ue
Rs au
‘
:
f
i
=e
,
1 =
“7
= is
i
=
Pa

*
"7
“
‘

ae ae

LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INST

NOI.
¢

B
NOI:

ul
NOI!
LIB
NOI!
LIB)
NOId
L

NOILNLILSNI NVINOSHLINS S3iuvuaIT LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILNLILSNI NVINOSHLINS S31uvustt

1

INSTITUTION
INSTITUTION

HINDI ERBUSIUIN WUE

Salavuat

INSTITUTION
Sa1uvuai
Sat >

LIBRARIES. SMITHSONIAN NOILALILSNI_ NWINOSHLINS S31

e

INSTITUTION NOILALILSNI NVINOSHLIWS Saisvyugst

LIBRARIES
oa

s

NOILNLILSNI_ NVINOSHLINS SS3iu¥vuaIt

INSTITUTION

Xs
a

SMITHSONIAN _ INSTITUTION

fal}
AN
MITHSONIAN

@

SMITHSONIAN_INSTITUTION

MITHSONIAN

RNG

CTT

NVINOSHLINS

&

es
SMITHSONIAN

NVINOSHLIWS S3INV4GI7
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

NVINOSHLINS

SMITHSON!

$s
S

LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN _ INS)

ES

a

ILSNI_NVINOSHLINS S3Iuvagit_ LI

quusym >

A>)

ao ‘G

NVINOSHLINS

\, ; PY,
} CP 4

iS) & Gig, Gy,

TF ow Z

NOMLALILSNI NVINOSHLINS

§
t

SIOKRANILD OW eIouiTs

LIBRARIES
LIBRARIES

SMITHSONIAN Sai

ON NOILNLILSNI
q

11_LIBRARIES

LIBRARIES

ISTITUTION NOILNLILSNI

HSN,
Semen

INSTITUTION NOILNLILSNI NYINOSHLINS S3ZI¥VUdIT L

RAR
x
INSTITUTION NOILNLILSN! NVINOSHLIW

INSTITUTION NOILNL

VsatItiaVvedcgit
giuvagi
S3Iut
[?7)
=
=
x=
no
So
=
>
=

S S31uvuaiT_L

NOILNLILSNI INSTITUTION. NOILLALILSNI " NWINOSHLINS SItYVEEIT_ LIBRARIES NST

MITHSONIAN
Zp i=
OSHLI
ITHSONIAN _IN

SMITHSONIAN _INSTITUTI

NVINOSHLINS SZIYWYSIT LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILNLIZSNI NVINOSHLINS S2IluVvugi

=

io]

a

>

} @

mo

® SMITHSONIAN
w » w ci s
4 GYYy = / —- Wee = Sp, = a, ce.
L Ly, = a : o 7 ) 3
fp (Uys w | w Vs “a 77) s
2 yd 2 \ |} 2 f Kip = 9 ie
ELEC 2X SW 20% / J =P = < =
LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN _INSTITU NOILNLILSNI_NVINOSHLINS S3IYVESIT LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION | NOLLOLILSNI_NVINOSHLIWS | S31
A S50NG™ ud Yyyp, = Zan : z tS ASGTITL = , ; rt) ty, = j wd oA ud
4 = Wz * / \ 4 a = S = Em ® Po 4 ce fy
=i = Gy Br i | ) We « ={ < Y fut A < e < E
= a4 fg. (= i= SS SP } & Y/; 4 } Cc 2)
5 Ee S J2 NS" - a he S J & = a ‘A
=) aa ) Nasir OO oes = Musw7 Oo al oO v0: - o =
z A Zz z =] 2 a 2. =S =z -
NOILNLILSNI NVINOSHLINS LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILMLILSNI NVINOSHLINS S3!1YV¥SIT_ LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN_INS1
5 ae z im So = 3 - E = = : a =
> Gm & S 8 3 GE 2 GEE 5 S > a 6 oh
> Vexeee 5 hoe 2 i) \ 2, > Fa = 2 fg
— } & = } ff vy > | f= |} > fe } Pad | nd rn &
= fa i= \ ] = = Je / 2 i= ae | i ag Ns
A = YW a. Zn “Y . == ow / on %
5 a 2 — 2 e — 2 Nw’ SO z= HY z HH
LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN — NOILNLILSNI_ NVINOSHLNS, S31¥VUSI_LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION ,, = NVINOSHUWS (S31
KX. £ gam & $$ Cm, = a CESS 2 = = mm
- 5 Ze Z 5 pt pp 2 SN I 2; 3 2 iy
? g Fe 2 BiGde 2 - 8 ) 2 g 2 8g
: 2 J = = 2'GZy = Z J = 2 = 2%
ee Bf OE Nae tN TONE Oe et et Bae a z
NOILLOLILSN NVINOCHIIAG® C2RIEUWMUAID et 8rR RABIES SRITHCONIAN INGTITIITION NOLIOLILGN! NWINOSHIING GaruyUaia

bIRRARIES SMITHSONIAN INS1
NYINOSHLINS SSTEVIGERITT LIGRARIECS OMIINMOUNIAN INSTITUTION NUIZHAILONI sera peat Vesaravadgitst tI:

2 3 e 3 = E = 5 z
= _ O - fo) -_ —
0 = wo — Z Les] — o a oO
0 5 2 = Gly, 5 a = a
> = > = > Ee > a >
2 = 2 Ee df ae = 2 = z
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILNLILSNI_NVINOSHLINS Saluvugi7_ LIBRARIES, SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOIL
p ek: o z (2) ; : a ah e: o
= < = = = } = < =
= Zz a z a a Zz R 5 4
P ae >
z 2 a z Zz E \Y* 2.%
= Bene a 2 2 a
NVINOSHLINS SZIYVYSIT LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION a NVINOSHLINS S21 aVE Bige eB
= a no as n
“ yon x viet = cc a
at | Nea <x KA = < =
ce = Ped c =| se =;
a at a = ry [es] =
a S$ 5 = Zz 2 2

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILNLILSNI NVINOSHLINS S3IYVYSIT LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOIJ

INOETIU EIN NULLA

NOILNLILSNI NVINOSHLINS S3ZIYVYdIT LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN

= 3 ss g 3 5 :
‘0 = Ss = =
MP ie = > E 5 SL “3 =
I >» 2 S : 2G =
Gop - Ez - Gy a =
=_= a (/7) s = = =
NVINOSHLINS S3I¥VUEIT LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILOALILSNI_NVINOSHLINS SAluvVudIT_LIB
= 7) =z =e a — : Fans 7) =
= = <2 « EE = WX. < = <
= 3 ma \ =| = ~ yd ron = Zeus
5 = ane oO XY ; CE oO WS we Vie oO Ela (oe) SX
2 gi ZR 3 | 2N8 pi 2 BY 2
= z = » 2 a Yi = 2 =
= > = ~~ s Ss 4 Ss > =
a 2 7) ee 5 s. ; a 2 a
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOJINLILSN! NVINOSHLINS S3IUYVYSIT LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN
n Ss 7) = See: ” ” 2 a
aw a bs “” bs = puree =
z = = = . “ Yip 3 <
= = & S & a Gy = cc
D 3 2 S = a adie -
3 i 2 a z z | 3 z Fy
NYINOSHLINS, S3i¥VY¥SIT LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN_INSTITUTION NOILNLILSNI_NVINOSHLINS S3!uyvugdi7 LIB
= 5 = = B £ z ae z S
om = wo 2 Yy, @ = o = =
0 5 Fs) = Ly, = 2 SS 7
2 TRONS E = ay df aes E 5 WINE 55
a a 2 rm, fer 2 = = QWs a
So — = - ”
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILNLILSNI_NYINOSHLINS S3iuyvYsIT_LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN_INSTITUTION NOI!
= Fie no z 7) : Zt 2 zs Q
= = = = PR 5 ly, 2 5 2 \ =
5 5 = Yt S = 5 I 5 Lye =
oD 77) . ifs 7) wo 7) a7) QM ~ Wee o
©) U j Sse SAYS
g : ie: g E WE NER
2) gee Rene ee a 2 a 8 Bos gee
SINS 83 luyvyug Hi_LIBRAR! ES SMITHSONIAN _INSTITUTION op OILALILSNI_NVINOSHLINS Sa lYvdaiT LIB
= ul = wD Ly, 2 rin a w <a
= 2 =| = ” te A < = » < =
= o S = EG te cS tee =
a foe! = fro =~ | =f * =
=) pes 5 a! 5 Lea fe) = re)
Z 4 a a 2 aS) = = | 2
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILNLILSNI NYINOSHLINS SSIYVYYUYAGIT LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOI:
Zz = 2 r = = = ips =
O co oO = -_ 5 Js
= ed —_ iss) ° es) = aU 4
= ee] = 2 (= a kK fot “a =
ey > = i Fd > 2 eZ" > 2
- a E 9] = 9] = “Gps : =e) =
a pat - lc * UY next e
| NVINOSHLINS S3i4VYYEIT LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN — NOILNLILSNI NVINOSHLINS S3IYVYUSIT_LIB
Zz 2 Zz sf: n z on z 2) =
3 = +S = <= = <= = ~< |
tt, Y f Z i ma] za ar OE * ee 4 = S
: EGA 2S 3 ECS YS? aGH 2%
= 2p = Zz = = “ii = = =
= > = CC éniast> Ss > 4 S > . =
a 2 a * 2 s . F : 5 Zz a
cp MITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILMLILSNI_NVINOSHLIWS S32 IYVYEIT_ LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN _ INSTITUTION Nol
w A. ee a em eR tae OE Mt ; 2 CO Wo,
ave bale
foLeesihnmns

Smeatinictl eases 4
iSincueier sntacinn

ES eer aniery)
Runny sats Uae ihe
wait Nise ne phat
Araneae ie
Pacman

teri

Seaitit ALS

vied Ne PAO cad

Waray bY abies aerraneasiadehy bebe

P Sip hine rSydbsie cl Dadt
CN ea at Say

ah
Tae

viet aie
J ERT or

rinies hoya
BAe APACE Aine
tt
ni

hed\ele ee
shits Peat

Het)

a Ohaus
Wish Seen v EH
sp Bitey ste H

Pina
f Srtaenney
is

NocnieT neat

i i

Cire

Wrens,

Ahead
hn

ei
ane eitele

Shera ie

ti) u

PTAA Ae
hres.
Hore

4 Tea vRedy
Pow yte These
veiialie ei
HN :
PARR
asain tke

Lee efi fadetys
RS Uni

ie
says
SGT aad
Noh BRN Sylar,
Pe mavens
AAAS E DS
RP SLiF Fern bs

ees)
Dae M Mee ae
Pa ii ascAspae

GY
et eh a ving
Oe hep
noe.
Heng N Yun sia

Persian emasl Vere
ponent ¥
eta i

Fanaa,
Desai!

RAN, cue ern
PARA, RuLeten rte
PS Tiseld tire erM Mee E eae
MNES TEFL} YEP
ae
J a\be oe NASA Pamga es
SN eAa yee
Sipe,
DAnY

thin

ESE AN JUN
ry

Sin rep GINO EM Te
AYELES | DANE hts tape in
NEES ATG RE aN
PD Nt

*

Srey

Sptieeursrea a
Dion revber ae

rai
aL ED UNL

a

Mineovtselene,
Rare Wintrse

Al
i HY, Sie

Soe

ny

SW)
es
ih}

7 H
hitnos iA
uN piesa

bovbe en te

Eiht teeitt

Shimpics?

Ppa?
rw ie
ADGA E LS Ewing or
PR OY ar ER W REET
AER UAE esas ta
Dieta

Daravanl

sursyeis, ane
nats :

DH tob tei
BNI EV Sy,
nae vie?
ssapasym terete
PORTE RSE
rf

TEND ZRS ee te

Tannen rt Sheree sabe tis
trans

dani

weieigen hese

serait sop ebads
SSusry heya ses

TISPN ROEDER MPC rune Pin

i atale wa RANGE

UST reantnm cuz ath iar e

Symtoms baby ms sera
Hatin ares

MPa

bern rir Se
Purim,

LESTE) oer ye

ss Soe
padtitata nears

syessy era oo

ya

bisbhuh ator kta ts

SAS TEEN

TiMeyp yyy RNP syle
TR SH

HLS VA ae pit

Looe
DAP er be
Wee
ae

ney
Peas EY Bathe ec

SUN rat
ENV Mys INAV SEAMS Nima riers Ph ht
iach ta ichexaltheck TGs
UTP ERSY Samy ead na presser ete
Nostale ann

Gere NV
Nee

ponent
Ps tarviee
sola ent

SRA

Ph pet ee ty

Sind

fp.y
prlsrattabais tris!
TAPS UINDS pe Soars Ph

i asi

aestre
als

CaS
S eaanarne

Paling
Se ayy

Haye wets eeryae os
IRN a
seme y sy ytt

Hea

tern)

Seay
Le siete pasveure cence
¥ mye ean
rae Theres

be ts

Renta
respi gees
on

A

Sos Es
ioe

JS PS ys hau,
Mate

Rraperat segs

SOR RL
yarn

Oy
Liab wae
Hiyeteanaverktcrutens

Sere
RSet
onto eattny

Mos geal ties
Ve Grierat east ett
Pye SNS
er asta

Te pelarecinweanes

SP ieee
Rees
Wg ew thelial

Wynne Shrysronge ssanerey
Frege sores Rarkranestynsorerore

fase
fen atrerseras
Fey uwie tee age ag sy
AH arg ueRl bee Ae
NEUEN ery evar te nT E) eS NTN y OF
Cares

Ms

Repent
ey are ya
ARG g ett ASS sy
Rie
Np Niplynyen re Uwse alten ag
Set ny wryerw ta
Ai oeouag 8 We wleqrat ca coe tr py

Weep
PAN EN IPR SPUN tongs

Pha
tay

peprent

. aieeets.
Reet
DSESiernes

PORern er taney

i A tye

HS
Pere ingen de
LAT nie eeited

a

A
pepe esdugey
pereanier

TR Rae
weytan al
aby
Mat
Mert

A
stu Dele ia

bees

Stan

ey Latares
Dara

Sscathorntpe:
erereate

Hea be
ay)

Sy Mears

Deere tren)

chek pear a arate

rs

BAe

CIDR Sie OO eer
ee

ere

Ce ouas pasa
a

vy

Mybeiss abe

He eterer ah

wi

Wr i

ATi
MINH

seen iy
ie aed

Wo Oa

creo

ste

088

|

INSTITUTION LIBRARIES

MM

01

PSSST
RE oy K
Wg yrypcereutellvers tenyyunacgee jase peoerareret yb?
Warmer: phe Het Lay
etstrpebis hive ateR nea heute tos
piglet dace
Fusswews
Passes
PTC Sereda pear worateratgrara) arpetmse
wleeryanwesicn (uenapeayiraas u
pert aparesesy vera e wares
Peletonneetaritehvee ae
Perey rere ier

Htrehey iar
Ney

peeerry ewe

Fede Rew

thats:
Sa Shera
Seabury Tne er
Jeasitaleymnevoe tree res pouty ee |

Soy Ss Ur we
VAN cero nemntecreryeurute
PES Sy obynaye Ov mene ue ar pe yrs
See esa SON NCTN Vivestiverytieasesiiy ela wy r
Men peuresurasrye sett K

garda

Pra
tyne
Seat Paes
bien oe Druin
eo : ey sees Wry
PAR RNA NIU WT UP I NEG

Se We VRP stay
“

NPN AC RUT SENS
eupit Pre menace

oe
atenhaeey
South tae
ver

ik sear
"yr YNArAN USAW PRUE FIN re
s Wrerurmterurenerere”
ATM ee ee a
wwrNny py
Terese

act

Se

PYM WAP RUS
AUCES Nes I vere W\ewag Vero Nek
SA UU reward
Sesturatys yeas}
rf BY oe ase wear eae

rece awTe

Sin

we ay erate Rae er

H8Te elu ee CSUR RL OY
at

muayt

csc
Peter n a
Cates omerww eww Te yrasy ee
Teutere recy. onmtnaon ease LU “
ee ul

edarer Ee Utes ng

Smevoeury ry THNeUYr gw wrUraew Dea boiteearce

‘Wren site terse newt Cees adee ctv ota resyadiwwtaey
RAR Sica Sn ae rane Ro

Weneey oy eeL wee Jum se) Mine FACES TUAW ee an nsec utet itr

Sererure eure yc tein eye ce TYRE ores eeu aes Care

oy UsyTe wares poyyeseeerepe stn tet eter

waierEVay owsrhY ai wieo Coe ver

Saal

ver ayer"
pened
TeRVeE WE Wie ty Fw

She ae eee
VET yearn ey Te | ory ee
LRM Bk SCs ts CY
fe FEW CTY EUR Fork nd a ol
ne Gy SWE re. *
Hee CS PRTV TAN oe Re ieraceenrur' are aA
FATE Nate Ter rE t een rue we
hms kad h 4H

of
Perey wate cee orriirs
Fee antor ayes ‘ crea titer KS ENN
e re Wannabe getrespeioer se
SietwteapacCarectury ates

See We IEE STEMI WEY

NWO TR Wid ere AT

See g rem rue eer
Pevwnrracen

cus
TENCE ESF

