eee

ii

wi lL

SMITHSONIAN YEAR : 1978

Programs and A\ctivities
5

WP) nah

SMITHSONIAN YEAR - 1978

Programs and Activities

The Smithsonian Year 1978, Statement by the Secretary,

including the Financial Report of the Smithsonian Institution,

is available from the Superintendent of Documents, U.S. Gov-
ernment Printing Office, Washington, D.C. 20402.
AiR aa AR *

Mk J

&.

. 4

SMITHSONIAN YEAR - 1978

Programs and Activities

OCTOBER 1, 1977, THROUGH
SEP TEMBER: 307.1978

Smithsonian Institution Press * City of Washington * 1979
Library of Congress Catalog Card Number 79-640936

For sale by the Superintendent of Documents, U.S. Government Printing Office
Washington, D.C., 20402 (paper cover) Stock Number: 047—000—00354—7
The Smithsonian Institution

The Smithsonian Institution was created by act of Congress in 1846
in accordance with the terms of the will of James Smithson of Eng-
land, who in 1826 bequeathed his property to the United States of
America “‘to found at Washington, under the name of the Smith-
sonian Institution, an establishment for the increase and diffusion
of knowledge among men.” After receiving the property and ac-
cepting the trust, Congress incorporated the Institution in an “‘es-
tablishment,” whose statutory members are the President, the Vice
President, the Chief Justice, and the heads of the executive depart-
ments, and vested responsibility for administering the trust in the
Smithsonian Board of Regents.

THE ESTABLISHMENT

Jimmy Carter, President of the United States
Walter F. Mondale, Vice President of the United States
Warren E. Burger, Chief Justice of the United States
Cyrus R. Vance, Secretary of State
W. Michael Blumenthal, Secretary of the Treasury
Harold Brown, Secretary of Defense
Griffin B. Bell, Attorney General
Cecil D. Andrus, Secretary of the Interior
Bob S. Bergland, Secretary of Agriculture
Juanita M. Kreps, Secretary of Commerce
F. Ray Marshall, Secretary of Labor
Joseph A. Califano, Jr.,.Secretary of Health, Education and Welfare
Patricia Roberts Harris, Secretary of Housing and Urban Development
Brock Adams, Secretary of Transportation
James R. Schlesinger, Secretary of Energy
Board of Regents and Secretary - September 30, 1978

REGENTS OF THE
INSTITUTION

EXECUTIVE
COMMITTEE

THE SECRETARY

Warren E. Burger, Chief Justice of the United States, Chancellor
Walter F. Mondale, Vice President of the United States
Henry M. Jackson, Member of the Senate

Barry Goldwater, Member of the Senate

Robert B. Morgan, Member of the Senate

George H. Mahon, Member of the House of Representatives
Elford A. Cederberg, Member of the House of Representatives
Leo J. Ryan, Member of the House of Representatives

Anne Armstrong, citizen of Texas

J. Paul Austin, citizen of Georgia

John Nicholas Brown, citizen of Rhode Island

William A. M. Burden, citizen of New York

Murray Gell-Mann, citizen of California

Caryl P. Haskins, citizen of the District of Columbia

A. Leon Higginbotham, Jr., citizen of Pennsylvania

Thomas J. Watson, Jr., citizen of Connecticut

James E. Webb, citizen of the District of Columbia

Warren E. Burger, Chancellor (Board of Regents)
William A. M. Burden

Caryl P. Haskins

James E. Webb (Chairman)

S. Dillon Ripley

Dorothy Rosenberg, Executive Assistant to the Secretary
Michael Collins, Under Secretary

John F. Jameson, Assistant Secretary for Administration
Charles Blitzer, Assistant Secretary for History and Art
David Challinor, Assistant Secretary for Science

Paul N. Perrot, Assistant Secretary for Museum Programs
Julian T. Euell, Assistant Secretary for Public Service

T. Ames Wheeler, Treasurer

Peter G. Powers, General Counsel

Richard L. Ault, Director, Support Activities

James McK. Symington, Director, Membership and Development
Lawrence E. Taylor, Coordinator, Public Information

vi
page v

109

123

123
126
131
135
142
143
149
161
164

171

176
179
181
185

Smithsonian Year - 1978

CONTENTS

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
BOARD OF REGENTS AND SECRETARY
CHRONOLOGY

SCIENCE

Chesapeake Bay Center for Environmental Studies

Fort Pierce Bureau

National Air and Space Museum

National Museum of Man, Center for the Study of Man
National Museum of Natural History

National Zoological Park

Office of Fellowships and Grants

Radiation Biology Laboratory

Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory

Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute

HISTORY AND ART

Archives of American Art

Cooper-Hewitt Museum of Design and Decorative Arts
Freer Gallery of Art

Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden

Joseph Henry Papers

National Collection of Fine Arts

National Museum of History and Technology

National Portrait Gallery

Office of American and Folklife Studies

MUSEUM PROGRAMS

Conservation Analytical Laboratory
National Museum Act Program
Office of Exhibits Central

Office of Horticulture

Vii
page 189
Lon
197
198
200
204

Pali

200
216
29
222.
226
227
228
230
231

239

235
236
244

247

Zsilt
292
254
7x5) 5)

2O7

261
281
285
291
295

MUSEUM PROGRAMS, Continued

Office of International Activities

Office of Museum Programs

Office of the Registrar

Smithsonian Institution Archives

Smithsonian Institution Libraries

Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service

PUBLIC SERVICE

Anacostia Neighborhood Museum

Division of Performing Arts

Office of Elementary and Secondary Education

Office of Smithsonian Symposia and Seminars
Office of Telecommunications

Smithsonian Exposition Books

Smithsonian Institution Press

Smithsonian Magazine

Visitor Information and Associates’ Reception Center

MEMBERSHIP AND DEVELOPMENT

National Board of Smithsonian Associates
Smithsonian National Associate Program
Smithsonian Resident Associate Program

ADMINISTRATION

Administrative Activities

Financial Management Activities

Support Activities

Smithsonian Institution Women’s Council Activities

WOODROW WILSON INTERNATIONAL CENTER FOR
SCHOLARS

JOHN F. KENNEDY CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS
READING IS FUNDAMENTAL, INC.

SMITHSONIAN SCIENCE INFORMATION EXCHANGE, INC.
NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART

APPENDICES

Vili
Smithsonian Year + 1978
CHRONOLOGY

The following is a representative selection of Smithsonian events during
the year. No attempt has been made to make it a complete compilation
of all Smithsonian activities.

1977
October

October 1

RESEARCH: The first comprehensive global model of
the Earth’s gravity field was produced, using laser
tracking data from field stations of the Smithsonian-
Harvard Center for Astrophysics and data from
Geos-3 satellite.

RESEARCH: Chesapeake Bay Center for Environmental
Studies began a study of Coaches Island ecology to
determine the impact of a dense deer population on a
small island.

EXHIBITION: “Splendors of Nature,” a permanent hall
in the National Museum of Natural History, opened
with hundreds of objects selected solely for their
beauty.

EDUCATION: The Resident Associate Program insti-
tuted a program for adults in which some 69 scholar-
ships were awarded during the year through the
Office of Adult and Continuing Education of the D.C.
Public Schools.

ORIENTATION PROGRAM: The first of eight programs
sponsored by the National Associate Program was
initiated to provide participants in the Travel Program
charter trips with information on countries to be
visited—Russia, Turkey, Kenya, Italy, France, and
Scotland.

EXHIBITION: “Kenneth Noland: A _ Retrospective”
opened at the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture
Garden and at the Corcoran Galley of Art in a pio-
neering cooperative venture by two of Washington’s
leading museums of contemporary art.
October 2

October 5—10

October 10

October 12

October 14

October 15

October 16

October 18

PUBLICATIONS: Smithsonian Exposition Books was es-
tablished for the purpose of producing popular edu-
cation books.

CONCERT SERIES: First of 16 chamber music concerts
was presented by the Division of Musical Instru-
ments in cooperation with the Friends of Music at
the Smithsonian and the Division of Performing Arts.

CONCERT SERIES: Jazz Heritage series, sponsored by the
Division of Performing Arts, began a new season
with well-known jazz musicians in concerts and free
workshop rehearsals.

SPECIAL EVENT: The eleventh annual Festival of Amer-
ican Folklife featured the Virginia folk culture, en-
ergy, African diaspora, native Americans, and A Na-
tion of Nations.

CONCERT SERIES: Theater Chamber Players, in resi-
dence at the Smithsonian, performed the first of five
concerts.

SPECIAL EVENT: Andrei Voznesensky, widely respected
Soviet poet, appeared at the Library of Congress
reading from his works as part of his fellowship at
the Kennan Institute, Woodrow Wilson International
Center for Scholars.

AWARDS: James Smithson Society medals were
awarded to 18 at a dinner honoring the James Smith-
son Society and the National Board of Smithsonian
Associates.

SPECIAL EVENT: First “James Smithson Society Day”
featured tours, coffee hour, and luncheon at the
National Air and Space Museum and the Hirshhorn
Museum and Sculpture Garden, with a personal wel-
come by Joseph Hirshhorn.

EXHIBITION: “Treasures from the Dibner Collection”
opened in the Dibner Library at the National Museum
of History and Technology.

CONCERT SERIES: The first of three programs in the
Blues series, sponsored by the Division of Performing
Arts, was presented at the National Museum of Nat-
ural History.

DANCE: First of three programs of ‘People and Their
Culture,” a series of dances, film, and music of ancient
cultures, was presented by the Division of Performing

Arts.

ACQUISITION: A 75-carat emerald, believed to have
been owned by Abdul Hamid II of the Ottoman Em-

2 / Smithsonian Year 1978
October 20

October 20-22

October 21

October 28

November

November 4

November 5

November 8

November 9

pire, was given to the Smithsonian by Mrs. Stewart
Hooker of New York.

LECTURE: James R. Buckler, Director, lectured on the
“Horticultural Extravaganza of the Victorian Era” in
the first outreach program of the Office of Horticul-
ture. The lecture was held at the Midwest Antiques
Forum, Henry Form Museum, in Dearborn, Mich.

CONFERENCE: The annual meeting of the Society for the
History of Technology was held at the National Mu-
seum of History and Technology.

PUBLICATION: The Smithsonian Experience, colorful
impressions of the Smithsonian in text and photo-
graphs, was published by Smithsonian Exposition
Books.

EXHIBITION: “French Folk Art,” with approximately
125 objects from the Musée des Arts et Traditions in
Paris, opened at the Renwick Gallery; later circulated
by the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition
Service.

EXHIBITION: The champagne-colored 67.89 carat Vic-
toria-Transvaal Diamond, largest and most valuable
gem gift to the Smithsonian since the Hope Diamond,
and a gift of Leonard and Victoria Wilkinson, was
placed on display at the National Musem of Natural
History.

RESEARCH: Terrestrial ecologists at the Chesapeake
Bay Center for Environmental Studies initiated re-
search on maintaining bird and plant diversity at the
Center.

CONCERT: A series of free lunchtime concerts, held
weekly through January 1978, began at the National
Museum of History and Technology and featured the
U.S. Navy Band jazz ensemble, The Commodores.

CONCERT SERIES: Music from Marlboro, first of three
concerts of chamber music from the summer festival
in Vermont, was sponsored by the Division of Per-
forming Arts.

LECTURE: Dr. Marie Lukens Swietochowski, Associate
Curator of Islamic Art, Metropolitan Museum of Art,
spoke at the Freer Gallery of Art on “Prophets and
Kings in Persian Paintings” in the annual series on
oriental art sponsored by the Freer.

AWARD: Japan’s Order of the Sacred Treasure, Third
Grade, was awarded posthumously to Harold Stern,
late director of the Freer Galley of Art, by Emperor

Chronology / 3
November 15

November 15

November 20

November 20-22

November 27

November 28

December

December 1

Hirohito of Japan. The award, rarely given to for-
eigners, was in recognition of Stern’s contribution to
the understanding of Japanese art and culture in the
United States.

EXHIBITION: “Early American Silhouettes by Auguste
Edouart,” profiles in silhouette of many important
Americans in the second quarter of the nineteenth
century, opened at the National Portrait Gallery.

EXHIBITION: ‘More than Meets the Eye,” the first major
show from the holdings of the Cooper-Hewitt Mu-
seum, opened with nearly 400 items representing
every department of the Museum.

SPECIAL EVENT: First of a series of public sketch-ins
was held at the National Zoo, with local artists as-
sisting, as part of the Smithsonian’s participation in
the international celebration of the World Wildlife
Fund.

SAMPLER WEEKEND: One of three weekends for mem-
bers of the National Associates with special tours
and lectures in five museums on the Mall.

CONCERT SERIES: American Popular Music series began,
presented by the Division of Performing Arts.

opENING: A bookstore/gallery at the National Zoo
featuring animal-related merchandise was opened by
Friends of the National Zoo.

HONORED: Drs. G. Arthur Cooper and Richard E.
Grant were honored for outstanding achievement by
the Director of the National Museum of Natural His-
tory following publication of the final volume of
“Permian Brachiopods of West Texas,” a work hailed
as a paleontological classic.

AWARDS: Two Smithsonian films won Golden Eagle
awards from the Council on International Nonthe-
atrical Events: The Smithsonian with S. Dillon Ripley,
Secretary, and Tiger, a documentary on the endan-
gered Bengal Tiger.

ACQUISITION: The Beatles’ Rolls Royce was given to
the Cooper-Hewitt Museum by John Lennon and
Yoko Ono and will be exhibited in “Ornament in the
Twentieth Century” in October 1978.

EXHIBITION: The first in a new program of sales exhi-
bitions of American crafts opened at the Renwick
Gallery.

EXHIBITION: “Atom Smashers: Fifty Years,” the history

of atomic technology, opened at the National Museum
of History and Technology.

4 / Smithsonian Year 1978
December 3

December 8

December 9

December 9-11

December 11

December 16

December 19

December 22

December 26

December 31

SPECIAL EVENT: Hirshhorn Holiday: A Celebration for
Children was held at the Hirshhorn Museum and
Sculpture Garden.

EXHIBITION: “The Subway,” showing subways around
the world, was installed in a New York City subway
station by the Cooper-Hewitt Museum. Eighteen cities
and countries subsequently requested the exhibition
and in March 1978 it began a tour by the Smithsonian
Institution Traveling Exhibition Service.

OPENING: Zoolab, a library of objects as well as books,
opened at the National Zoo, designed for visitors of
all ages to learn more about the animals at the Park.

CHRISTMAS WEEKEND: The National Associates Pro-
gram’s sixth annual “Christmas at the Smithsonian”
featured lectures, tours, and tree trimming.

CONCERT SERIES: Jazz Connoisseur series, sponsored by
the Division of Performing Arts, began with the first
of three concerts.

EXHIBITION: “The Decorative Designs of Frank Lloyd
Wright” opened at the Renwick Gallery, featuring
Wright’s designs for furnishings as well as architec-
ture.

EXHIBITION: ““The Trees of Christmas,” twelve ethnic
and American period trees, displayed handcrafted or-
naments in the National Museum of History and
Technology, the first exhibition by the Smithsonian’s
Office of Horticulture.

ACCESSION: The National Collection of Fine Arts for-
mally accessioned Rembrandt Peale’s oil painting
Roman Daughter, a gift from the Smithson Society.

EXHIBITION: ““The Malaspina Expedition,” depicting
the voyages of Alejandro Malaspina along the Amer-
ican northwest coast in the late 1700s, opened in the
National Museum of History and Technology.

EXHIBITION: The first major exhibition of the art of
Gregory Gillespie opened at the Hirshhorn Museum
and Sculpture Garden.

SPECIAL EVENT: A seven-day, old-fashioned Christmas
celebration, co-sponsored by the National Museum of
History and Technology and the Division of Perform-
ing Arts, opened with music, puppet shows, demon-
strations, tours, films, and ethnic foods.

accession: Albert Bierstadt’s oil painting Western
Landscape with Lake and Mountains, a bequest of
Helen Huntington Hull, was formally accessioned by
the National Collection of Fine Arts.

Chronology / 5
1978

January

January 2

January 8

January 9-13

January 10

January 15

January 16

January 18

January 25

INSTALLATION: The Change Coupled Device (CCD)
Camera and the “Red Shift Machine,” two new elec-
tronic devices designed to enhance the observation
capabilities of conventional telescopes, were put into
operation at Mount Hopkins, Arizona, in preparation
for use on the multi-mirror telescope.

APPOINTMENT: Professor Charles Gibbs-Smith, Science
Museum in London, became the first appointee to the
Charles Lindbergh Chair of Aerospace History.

CONCERT: Pete Seeger and Washington-based group
Sweet Honey in the Rock presented an evening of
protest songs from colonial times to today, sponsored
by the Division of Performing Arts.

worksHoPp: The Office of Museum Programs con-
ducted a workshop in which nine employees of the
Museum of the Cherokee Indians in New York visited
to gain professional exposure to museum operations
and to meet individually with corresponding persons
in the Smithsonian.

LECTURE: Dr. Pratapaditya Pal, Curator of Indian Is-
lamic Art, Los Angeles County Museum of Art, spoke
at the Freer Gallery of Art on “Early Indian Bronzes.”

SPECIAL EVENTS: The National Portrait Gallery un-
veiled the John Singleton Copley self-portrait, a gift
from the Cafritz Foundation.

LECTURE: The first program in an autobiographical
series entitled ‘Living Self-Portraits’’ was presented
by the National Portrait Gallery. The series featured
Harry Bridges, Lee Strasberg, Robert Moses, and Dr.
Karl Menninger.

ACQUISITION: The Chase Manhattan Money Collection
of more than 24,000 pieces, from primitive exchange
to world currencies and financial documents, was
given to the Smithsonian’s National Museum of His-
tory and Technology.

SERIES: “Key Issues in Science Today,” first of five
panel discussions, was scheduled by the Resident As-
sociate Program with a grant from the National
Science Foundation.

REGIONAL EVENTS: Exhibitions, workshops, lectures,
and performing arts events were presented in Hawaii

-by the National Associates Program for members, the

first of a series of similar programs scheduled
thoughout the year in Texas, North Carolina, Ken-
tucky, Indiana, Ohio, and Arizona.

6 / Smithsonian Year 1978
January 26

January 30

January 31

February

February 10

February 12

February 14

March

March 1

LAUNCH: The International Ultraviolet Explorer (IUE)
Satellite was launched; it carried the first spectro-
graphic instrument designed for celestial observations
across a wide range of ultraviolet wavelengths. Data
provided is being used by two Smithsonian teams and
other astronomers.

SEMINAR: The Latin American Program of the Wood-
row Wilson International Center for Scholars began
a program in which various aspects of the Caribbean
were covered in discussions held throughout the year.

SPECIAL EVENT: The first Wernher von Braun Memorial
Lecture was held at the National Air and Space Mu-
seum to commemorate the 20th anniversary of the
launching of the first American earth satellite.

RECORD RELEASE: Five new albums were released by
the Division of Performing Arts: three in the Amer-
ican Musical Theater series, Music for Harpsichord,
and Duke Ellington 1939.

visit: Her Hoyal Highness Princess Alia of the Hashe-
mite Kingdom of Jordan, daughter of King Hussein,
toured the collections of the Freer Gallery of Art.

EXHIBITION: “The Frederick Douglass Years’’ opened
at the Anacostia Neighborhood Museum, tracing the
life of the nineteenth-century human rights leader.

LECTURE: The Embassy of Japan co-sponsored with the
Freer Gallery of Art a program on Japanese sculpture
with speaker Dr. Christine Guth Kanda of Princeton
University.

EXHIBITION: ““Aspects of Art and Science” opened at
the National Museum of History and Technology.

NEW PROGRAM: The Resident Associate Program es-
tablished a special service to furnish simultaneous
translation of Associate programs to hearing-im-
paired persons.

EXPERIMENT: Using an elephant that had died at the
Boston Zoo, archeologist Dennis Stanford, National
Museum of Natural History, conducted a unique ex-
periment proving, among other findings, that Ice Age
hunters could have butchered a mammoth with tools
made on the spot from the animal’s own bones.

PUBLICATION: The inaugural issue of Air and Space, a
mini-magazine for educators, was published by the
National Air and Space Museum.

EXHIBITION: “Photographing the Frontier,” second in a
two-part exhibition circulated by the Smithsonian In-
stitution Traveling Exhibition Service, opened at the
Museum of History and Technology.

Chronology / 7
March 3-8

March 5

March 6

March 11

March 16

March 19

March 27-29

March 28

March 31

April

AWARD: A Victorian parterre designed by the Office of
Horticulture, one of two exhibitions installed by this
office at The Flower Show, District of Columbia Ar-
mory, received two awards.

DANCE: An evening of Victorian ballroom dancing in
the Grand Salon of the Renwick Gallery was spon-
sored by the Division of Performing Arts.

Discovery: A letter dated May 17, 1784, from General
George Washington was found in the Harry F. Gug-
genheim ballooning print collection of the National
Air and Space Museum.

LECTURE: Historian Benjamin Quarles lectured on abo-
litionist Frederick Douglass, at the Anacostia Neigh-
borhood Museum. The program coincided with the
publication of a Douglass speech that was presented
in 1875 and 1877.

EXHIBITION: “Europe in the Seventies: Aspects of Re-
cent Art,” the first full-scale exhibition devoted en-
tirely to avant-garde European art of this decade,
opened at the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture
Garden.

CONCERT SERIES: The Division of Performing Arts
sponsored the first in a series of American Country
Music programs.

NATIONAL CONFERENCE: “The United States, U.S. For-
eign Policy, and Latin American and Caribbean Re-
gimes,”” took place at the Woodrow Wilson Interna-
tional Center for Scholars, one of more than 150 meet-
ings held during the year.

LECTURE: Douglas Trumbull, creator of special effects
for the movie Close Encounters of the Third Kind,
spoke at the National Air and Space Museum, pre-
sented by the Resident Associate Program.

EXHIBITION: ‘Maria Martinez: Five Generations of
Potters” opened at the Renwick Gallery of the Na-
tional Collection of Fine Arts. Related films, lectures,
and a demonstration by the Martinez family were
scheduled throughout the exhibit.

EXHIBITION: The General Aviation Gallery, National
Air and Space Museum, reopened with a new format
and design.

PUBLICATION: “Endangered and Threatened Plants of
the United States’ was published jointly by the

_ Smithsonian and the World Wildlife Fund; it is de-

signed for use by the Department of the Interior in
developing official lists of plants to be protected.

8 / Smithsonian Year 1978
April 1

April 2

April 3-6

April 6

April 11

April 13

April 15

PUBLICATION: An encyclopedic handbook on California
Indians, the first of 20 volumes on the history and
culture of North American Indians and Eskimos, was
published by the Center for the Study of Man.

PILOT PROGRAM: The Chesapeake Bay Center for En-
vironmental Studies initiated an ecological enrichment
series for gifted and talented children.

RESEARCH: Results of the ongoing Langley-Abbot
Solar Research Program of Smithsonian-Harvard
Center for Astrophysics revealed a significant de-
crease in the rotation rate of sunspots accompanying
a general rise in solar acivity over the same period.

SEMINAR: “The USSR and the Sources of Soviet Pol-
icy,” a two-month series of seminars presented by the
Kennan Institute for Advanced Russian Studies, be-
gan at the Woodrow Wilson International Center for
Scholars.

EXHIBITION: “In Honor of William Harvey,” historical
documents in the field of medicine, opened in the
Dibner Library at the National Museum of History
and Technology, prepared by the Office of Smithson-
ian Institution Libraries.

SPECIAL EVENT: The Hutchinson Family Concert, a re-
construction of a mid-19th century American musical
event, was performed at the Renwick Gallery, spon-
sored jointly by the Gallery and the Divisions of
Musical Instruments and Performing Arts.

worksHopP: The Office of Museum Programs conducted
a workshop in “Design and Production of Exhibits for
Art Museums.”

SEMINAR: First of five seminars on United States-
Korean Relations began, sponsored by the Woodrow
Wilson International Center for Scholars.

LECTURE: Dr. Max Loehr, Professor Emeritus of Ori-
ental Art, Harvard University, spoke at the Freer Gal-
lery of Art on the evolution of the dragon motif.

visir: Mrs. Elena Ceausescu, wife of the President of
Romania, visited the National Museum of History and
Technology for a luncheon with First Lady Rosalynn
Carter, followed by a tour of the collections.

SPECIAL EVENT: A series of three demonstration pro-
grams began at the National Portrait Gallery, featur-
ing silhouette cutting, Kabuki make-up, and police
artist sketching.

EXHIBITION: “Chinese, Japanese and Korean Ceramics”
opened at the Freer Gallery of Art, including approxi-

Chronology / 9
April 16

April 19

April 20

April 22

April 24

May

mately 350 objects from the neolithic period to the
end of the nineteeth century.

EXHIBITION: “Phil Ratner’s Washington,” sculpture de-
picting scenes from everyday life, opened at the Ana-
costia Neighborhood Museum. Twenty-five portraits
of outstanding members of the Anacostia community
were also included.

SPECIAL EVENT: A chick was hatched at the National
Zoo, the second offspring of the Zoo’s pair of bald
eagles, a protected species.

visit: First Lady Rosalynn Carter visited the National
Museum of Natural History to tour “Treasures of
Mexico: From the Mexican National Museums,” an
exhibition of 150 masterworks by Mexican artists
from pre-Columbian times to 1900.

EXHIBITION: “Exhibition Flight,” the first traveling ex-
hibition from the National Air and Space Museum
collections, began its tour at the San Antonio Trans-
portation Museum, circulated by the Smithsonian In-
stitution Traveling Exhibition Service.

APPOINTMENT: Michael Collins, Director of the Na-
tional Air and Space Museum for seven years, was
appointed Under Secretary of the Smithsonian Insti-
tution.

PUBLICATION: “Black Women: Achievement Against
the Odds,” a 1978-1980 calendar, was published by
the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Serv-
ce in conjunction with its exhibition of the same
name.

AWARD: The Smithsonian Associate, monthly newslet-
ter of the Resident Associate Program, received the
annual Metropolitan Area Mass Media award for the
best “locally published periodical.”

AWARD: America As Art, by Joshua C. Taylor, Direc-
tor, National Collection of Fine Arts, and published
by the Smithsonian Institution Press, was selected by
the Association of College and Research Libraries as
winner in the category ‘“Oustanding Academic Book.”

EXPEDITION: A major expedition was launched by the
Smithsonian Oceanographic Sorting Center to assist
Philippine scientists in gathering and identifying lit-
tle-known shore flora and fauna of the central Philip-
pines and to establish baseline data by which to
measure future environmental change.

PuBLIcITY: Beginning with May events, the Smith-
sonian Calendar was published in the Washington

10 / Smithsonian Year 1978
May 3

May 4

May 6

May 8

May 9-23

May 15

June

Star and the Washington Post as an advertisement.
The change made information on Smithsonian events
available to a wider audience in the Washington
metropolitan area.

EXHIBITION: “The TIME of Our Lives,” featuring the
original artwork for 107 TIME Magazine covers of
the last 20 years, opened at the National Portrait Gal-
lery.

EXHIBITION: The first exhibition of the Smithsonian
Archives opened honoring Spencer F. Baird, second
Smithsonian Secretary and one of America’s greatest
nineteenth-century scientists and scientific adminis-
trators.

DEDICATION: A Leonard Baskin sculpture of Spencer
F. Baird, second Secretary of the Institution, was un-
veiled in the Smithsonian’s Victorian Garden.

SPECIAL EVENT: Fourth annual Teacher’s Day, spon-
sored by the Office of Elementary and Secondary Edu-
cation, introduced a major Smithsonian summer work-
shop series.

ANNIVERSARY: National Collection of Fine Arts cele-
brated ten years in the Old Patent Office Building.

TRAVEL: Two scientists of the National Zoo and di-
rectors of five other American zoos visited the Peo-
ple’s Republic of China. The tour was initiated by
National Zoo Director Theodore Reed to consult on
the maintenance and breeding of Giant Pandas.

SPECIAL EVENT: The Fifth Annual Benefit Auction of
Donated Objects at the Cooper-Hewitt Museum
raised over $119,000 for the Museum educational pro-
grams and exhibitions.

COMPLETION: Construction of the Multiple Mirror Tele-
scope (MMT) was completed at the Mount Hopkins
Observatory and an intensive testing program begun.
The mnt is a joint project of the Smithsonian-Harvard
Center for Astrophysics and the University of Arizona.

SATELLITE TRACKING: The laser tracking network of
the Smithsonian-Harvard Center for Astrophysics
played a major role in tracking the new nasa Seasat
satellite, particularly in support of the ocean-surface
altimeter experiment.

EDUCATION: The education staff of the Chesapeake Bay
Center for Environmenal Studies began ecology-re-
lated activities for preschool children and their par-
ents.

Chronology / 11
June 6

June 8

June 9

June 9-10

June 11

June 13

June 15

June 17

June 19

June 26-30

RESEARCH: The first simultaneous observations of op-
tical and x-ray emissions from a so-called “cosmic
burster” were made by scientists at the Massachusetts
Institute of Technology using the SAS-3 satellite and
a Smithsonian researcher using a telescope at the
Cerro Tololo Observatory in Chile.

ACQUISITION: The collection of the Jacques Elegmann
Inc. art gallery in New York City was acquired by the
Archives of American Art. The collection, containing
100,000 twentieth-century items, is one of the single
largest collections of records on art and artists.

PERMANENT EXHIBITION: “Western Civilization: Origins
and Traditions,” opened in the National Museum of
Natural History.

CONFERENCE: “Political Implications of Contemporary
Russian Nationalism” was sponsored by the Kennan
Institute of the Woodrow Wilson International Center
for Scholars.

SELECTED sTubDIES: A study program on Horticulture: A
Practical Approach to 18th-20th Century Gardening
was conducted by the Office of Horticulture and spon-
sored by the National Associates Program for its
members; this was the first of five week-long study
programs in specialized areas of interest using the
Smithsonian resources and staff for instruction.

EXHIBITION: “Past and Present: A Century and a Half
of a National Collection” opened at the National Col-
lection of Fine Arts.

REFERENCE SERVICE: The Smithsonian Institution Li-
braries initiated a new reference service with online
bibliographic data base searching.

EXHIBITION: ‘“The Noble Buyer: John Quinn, Patron of
the Avant Garde” opened with 80 key works from
one of the most important modern art collections ever
assembled.

AWARDS: Four Emmys were awarded to the film Cele-
brating a Century, produced by the Motion Picture
Unit, Office of Exhibits, by the Washington Chapter,
National Academy of Television Arts and Sciences.

EDUCATION: Thirty-five high school seniors were as-
signed to work in several Smithsonian departments
under an eight-week program of the Office of Ele-
mentary and Secondary Education.

worksHoP: The Office of Museum Programs con-
ducted a new workshop on “Information Manage-
ment and Automation in Museums.”

12 / Smithsonian Year 1978
June 28

June 30

July

July 1

July 4

APPOINTMENT: At White House ceremonies Wilton S.
Dillion, Director of the Smithsonian Office of Sem-
inars and Symposia, was made an honorary member
of the United States National Commission for the
International Year of the Child.

EXHIBITION: “Flying for Fun,” an exhibition on the
many forms of recreational flying, opened at the Na-
tional Air and Space Museum.

RESEARCH: Working in a shipboard laboratory off
Hawaii during July and August, zoologist Dr. Claude
F. E. Roper, National Museum of Natural History and
colleague Dr. Richard Young made revolutionary ad-
vances in the knowledge of bioluminescence in squids
and fishes.

RESEARCH: Analysis of data during July and August
from the International Ultraviolet Explorer (IUE)
satellite revealed that conditions in the center of
some globular clusters indicate the presence of an
extremely dense mass, likely a black hole.

RESEARCH: Dr. Brian Mason, scientist at the Na-
tional Museum of Natural History, discovered a new
class of meteorites while examining a large accumu-
lation of meteoritic material collected in the Antarctic
by a National Science Foundation expedition.

PUBLICATION: The Insect Zoo was published, the sec-
ond in a series of low-priced color guides to the per-
manent exhibit halls of the National Museum of Nat-
ural History.

CONSERVATION: The Cooper-Hewitt Museum began
operating a textile conservation laboratory, funded by
the Samuel H. Kress Foundation. A paper conserva-
tion lab is being developed under the same funding.

SPECIAL EVENT: A four-day traditional Fourth of July
Celebration with oratory, music, parades, and clowns,
began in and around the National Museum of History
and Technology, produced by the Museum and the
Division of Performing Arts.

NEW ROLE: The headquarters of the Minor Planet Cen-
ter of the International Astronomical Union moved to
the Smithsonian-Harvard Center for Astrophysics
(cra), making the cra the world’s clearinghouse for
information concerning virtually all new astronomical
discoveries.

EXHIBITION: “Printed, Painted and Dyed: The New
Fabric Surface” opened at the Renwick Gallery.

Chronology / 13
July 9

July 11

July 19

July 20

July 25

July 26

July 30

August

August 1

August 9

August 11

MILESTONE: The National Air and Space Museum wel-
comed the 20 millionth visitor since its opening on
July 1, 1976.

CONCERT SERIES: The first of eight free weekly garden
concerts and dance performances was presented at the
Cooper-Hewitt Museum.

ACQUISITION: Secretary of the Interior Cecil D. An-
drus, Senator Daniel P. Moynihan, and Secretary S.
Dillon Ripley accepted the monumental scrap-iron
sculpture Isis at the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture
Garden, a gift of the Institute of Scrap Iron and Steel,
Inc., created by artist Mark diSuvero.

ACQUISITION: First Lady Rosalynn Carter presented
her inaugural gown to the National Museum of His-
tory and Technology. Secretary Ripley accepted on
behalf of the Smithsonian Institution.

PUBLICATION: A new general information brochure
was published for free distribution to visitors in all
Smithsonian museums.

Acquisition: The fourth in a set of four Japanese
Shitenno, polychrome wood guardian kings from the
Kamakura period (1185-1332), was acquired by the
Freer Gallery of Art.

EXHIBITION: “Henry Moore: The Hirshhorn Museum
and Sculpture Garden Collection” opened to com-
memorate Moore’s 8oth birthday.

SPECIAL EVENT: A white-winged wood duck, one of the
rarest birds in the National Zoo’s collection, hatched
at the Conservation and Research Center in Front
Royal, Virginia.

RECORD RELEASE: Four new albums were released by
the Division of Performing Arts: John Kirby: The
Biggest Little Band 1937-1941; Orchestrion: The
Magnificant Music Machine; Souvenirs of Hot Choc-
olates; and Oh Kay!

PUBLICATION: The International Handbook of Aero-
space Awards and Trophies, the first comprehensive
reference source of its kind, was published by the Na-
tional Air and Space Museum and the Smithsonian
Institution Libraries.

PUBLICATION: The Smithsonian Archives published a
guide to its record and manuscript holdings that will
give scholars and the general public a more compre-
hensive introduction to the collection.

PERMANENT HALL: The Hall of American Maritime En-
terprise, a history of commercial shipping in the

14 / Smithsonian Year 1978
August 17

August 28

September

September 3

September 5-7

September 9

September 11

September 11-12

United States, opened in the National Museum of
History and Technology.

LEGISLATION: The House Committee on Public Works
and Transportation approved legislation authorizing
the construction of the Smithsonian’s Museum Sup-
port Center in Suitland, Maryland.

PUBLICATION: Excalibur III: The Story of a P-51 Mus-
tang, the first book in the “Famous Aircraft of the
National Air and Space Museum” series, was pub-
lished by the Smithsonian Institution Press.

NEW PROGRAM: The Archives of American Art began a
program in states without aaa regional offices to col-
lect and film available art-related archival material of
national interest, for deposit in both the originating
states and the aaa headquarters.

NEW FACILITY: The Research Laboratory Wing was
completed at the Chesapeake Bay Center for Environ-
mental Studies.

SPECIAL EVENT: Second annual Frisbee Festival, spon-
sored by the National Air and Space Museum, fea-
tured demonstrations and workshops. It was the larg-
est noncompetitive disc event ever held.

worksHop: “Audio-Visual Programs for Museums,”
was conducted by the Office of Museum Programs for
museum professionals throughout the country.

EXHIBITION: The first major touring project from the
collections of the Cooper-Hewitt Museum, “Close
Observation: Selected Oil Sketches by Frederic E.
Church,” was circulated by the Smithsonian Institu-
tion Traveling Exhibition Service.

PUBLICATION: A facsimile of the 1849 edition of Hints
on Public Architecture, by Robert Dale Owen, Regent
and Chairman of the Building Committee for the De-
sign and Construction of the Castle, was printed by
the Office of Membership and Development in co-
operation with Da Capo Press.

LECTURE: Georges Henri Reviere, Paris, Permanent Ad-
visor to International Council of Museums, spoke to
members of the Washington museum community on
the Eco-Museums in France, sponsored by the Office
of Museum Programs.

CONFERENCE: “History as an Instrument of Policy
Analysis,” was conducted by the International Secu-
rity Studies Program, Woodrow Wilson International
Center for Scholars.

Chronology / 15
September 12

September 13

September 14

September 15

September 16

September 20

September 21

September 22-23

September 23

NEW FACILITY: Smokey Bear Park at the National Zoo
was opened to the public, featuring open, moated en-
closures for several species of bears.

EXHIBITION: ““Women and Science” opened in the Dib-
ner Library of the National Museum of History and
Technology.

visit: Ben Abruzzo, Maxie Anderson, and Larry New-
man, the crew of Double Eagle II, first manned bal-
loon to complete a transatlantic crossing, were hon-
ored at a reception at the National Air and Space
Museum.

OPENING: The Jo Davidson Room at the National Por-
trait Gallery opened with a display of 10 of the 42
works by Davidson owned by the Gallery.

PUBLICATION: The Magnificent Foragers was published
by Smithsonian Exposition Books, depicting fieldwork
by National Museum of Natural History scientists.

EXHIBITION: “Daum: 100 Years of Glass and Crystal,”
the first major show in the Smithsonian Institution
Traveling Exhibition Service international program,
opened at the Mississippi Museum of Art.

SPECIAL EVENT: First of three “Portraits in Motion”
presentations by the National Portrait Gallery fea-
tured Dolores St. Amand in dramatic re-creations
from the life of Harriet Tubman.

LECTURE: Norman Lear, producer of “All in the Fam-
ily,” spoke on the origins of that television series; the
lecture was presented by the Resident Associate Pro-
gram.

EXHIBITION: The National Portrait Gallery opened its
first research exhibition in photography, entitled ““Fac-
ing the Light: Historic American Portrait Daguerreo-
types.”

CONFERENCE: “Latin America, the United States, and
the World of the 1980’s,” a meeting for senior editors
of major United States newspapers and monthly pub-
lications, was sponsored by the Latin American Pro-
gram of the Woodrow Wilson International Center
for Scholars.

LEGISLATION: The United States Senate enacted legis-
lation previously passed by the House of Representa-
tives making the Museum of African Art a part of the
Smithsonian Institution, enabling the bill to go for-
ward to the President for signature.

16 / Smithsonian Year 1978
September 24-26

September 26-28

September 28

September 27

September 30

EXHIBITION: “The First 4,000 Years: The Ratner Col-
lection of Judaean Antiquities,” circulated by the
Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service,
began its tour at the University Art Museum, Austin,
Texas.

CONFERENCE: “The Impact of International and Eco-
nomic Disturbances on the Soviet Union and Eastern
Europe” was sponsored by the Kennan Institute of the
Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars.

CONFERENCE: International Association of Zoo Educa-
tors met at the National Zoo to discuss how to reach
a variety of audiences.

FILMING: A general Smithsonian television public serv-
ice announcement was filmed in the Victorian Gar-
den, bringing together the Smithsonian Secretary and
the museum directors with representative artifacts
from the collections.

PERFORMER SERIES: Dance, poetry, and music from
around the world was featured in a series of six per-
formances, sponsored by the Division of Performing
Arts.

TERMINATION: Smithsonian/Peace Corps international
environmental project was terminated by the Peace
Corps, ending eight years of cooperative effort involv-
ing placement of volunteers with scientific skills.

Chronology / 17
on view in the “Splendors of Nature” exhibit at the National Museum of Natural

One hundred and sixty million year old fossil Ammonites and Belemnites (polished)
History. Photo by Chip Clark.
Smithsonian Year + 1978

SGTENCE

DAVID CHALLINOR,
ASSISTANT SECRETARY FOR SCIENCE

THE PAST YEAR REPRESENTED a time of change for Science at the
Smithsonian. Perhaps this period might be better described as one
of maturation of our activities.

Michael Collins, who skillfully shepherded the new building of
the National Air and Space Museum into existence, resigned his
Director’s position to become the Institution’s new Under Secretary.
The Museum has now reached a stage where future efforts will be
focused on bringing the research and educational aspects into
better balance with the highly successful public programs. A na-
tionwide search to chose a suitable successor to lead this important
Museum in the years ahead has begun.

The future of the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute was
further solidified with the signing and ratification of the new
Panama Canal Treaties and their annexed agreements. Among the
provisions of these documents is the designation of Barro Colorado
Island and four adjacent peninsulas as part of a newly created
Barro Colorado Nature Monument which str will hold as cus-
todian for both governments. The Nature Monument is given
further protection by the Organization of American States under
the Western Hemisphere Convention of 1940 for the protection of
nature and natural areas. Last March, a new administrative head-
quarters for strR1 was dedicated on the site of the old Tivoli Hotel
in Panama City. The ceremony was attended by many members of
the Panamanian government including its new President, Aristides
Rojo.

19
After many years of planning, the Congress this past year, ap-
proved the creation of a Museum Support Center in Suitland, Mary-
land. The new facility when completed in 1983 will solve a long-
standing collections space problem at the National Museum of
Natural History, by providing up-to-date storage and preservation
facilities for these valuable collections. Additionally, space will be
devoted to conservation laboratories and the Oceanographic Sort-
ing Center. In preparation for the move of the collections to Suit-
land, the Museum has a comprehensive program of inventory and
preservation under way.

The first volume of the Handbook of North American Indians
was published this past year representing the initial step in a 20-
volume series to chronicle our knowledge of America’s first inhabi-
tants. With the appearance of this volume, the project was trans-
fered from the Center for the Study of Man to the administration
of the National Museum of Natural History to allow for the con-
tinuecl| growth of the other activities of the Center.

The primary mirrors for the Multiple Mirror Telescope were in-
stalled at the Mount Hopkins facility of the Smithsonian Astro-
physical Observatory and first light has been received through the
instrument. Construction continues at the site of this revolutionary
telescope with plans for formal dedication in May 1979.

The National Zoological Park continued its successful program
of renovation at its Rock Creek facility with the opening of the
new bear lines, including a new home for one of its most famous
tenants, Smokey the Bear. Concurrently, renovation continued on
the buildings at the Conservation and Research Center at Front
Royal, Virginia. Great strides have been made in the past year in
the breeding and rearing of many highly endangered species.

The Cheaspeake Bay Center for Environmental Studies continued
its program of developing a proper plant facility for the conduct of
research on the estuarine systems of the Bay. The completion of a
new laboratory wing increases the capability of the research staff
to unlock the processes of a complex ecological system.

The Radiation Biology Laboratory has been exploring possible
sites for a permanent home upon expiration of its lease at the pres-
ent Rockville headquarters. The Laboratory has been handicapped
by a lack of a proper greenhouse facility in fulfilling research
objectives.

20 / Smithsonian Year 1978
A new Office of Fellowships and Grants was created in the past
year. Combining the activities of the Office of Academic Studies
and the Foreign Currency Program, the new organization will pro-
vide more centralized service in our programs in higher education
while allowing for more efficient administration of these activities.

Although research continued to flourish in the science bureaus
this past year, it has become evident that more effort is needed to
improve their physical facilities. Construction and renovation plans
are aimed at bringing the facilities up to current standards to assure
that our research activities can maintain their high quality. The
ability of the Smithsonian to provide long-term continuous moni-
toring of our globe through our research and collections sets this
Institution apart from other enterprises in the United States and
abroad, and makes it one of the world’s most important environ-
mental data banks.

Chesapeake Bay Center for Environmental Studies

Ecological research and education are the primary activities at the
Chesapeake Bay Center for Environmental Studies (cBces). Princi-
pal themes in research include the comparative ecology of terres-
trial communities with emphasis on the effects of past and present
land use. Estuarine research is concerned with the response of
biological populations to physical and chemical factors. These pro-
grams are integrated through an extensive watershed research
program which monitors and analyzes runoff from the Rhode River
watershed through a system of permanent gauging stations. Educa-
tion programs include basic research on outdoor-centered learning
and on the design and conduct of science education field trips for
school groups. In addition, staff members focus on the development
of curricula and public programs which emphasize the application
of science to environmental issues.

ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCES

Upland Ecology

Under Dennis Whigham and Daniel Higman, studies of vegetation
dynamics and succession and the life cycles of individual plants are

Science / 21
being pursued along three lines: long-term monitoring of successful
changes in an old field, a young forest, and a mature forest; the
rates and long-term fluctuations of primary production and nutri-
ent cycling under various land use conditions; and the manipulation
of vegetation and habitats to study early stages of succession and
the competitive impacts of woody vines.

Woody vines (poison ivy, grapevine, trumpet creeper, and
honeysuckle) are successional species that, in part, determine the
pathways of secondary succession. In areas of heavy vine growth,
tree seedlings rarely survive and the sites remain vine-dominated
indefinitely. The same species occur in all vegetation types with
the exception of an undistributed island site. The vines, however,
decrease in abundance during succession and their role in old aged
forests remain, at present, unclear. Center investigators have de-
termined that one vine, poison ivy, appears to be limited in its
upward mobility and only rarely is found higher than 80 percent
of the host trees’ total height. This relationship seems to hold for
poison ivy in young and old forests, as well as in forests on wet and
dry sites. Vines also have a negative influence on the growth of
trees even after the crown of the trees reaches beyond the upper
limit of the vines.

Collaborating in the Center’s monitoring of plant population
under three different successional conditions are Beryl Simpson of
the University of Texas and Paul Opler of the United States Fish
and Wildlife Service. Their focus is the determination of patterns
of breeding systems, seed dispersal, and seed size within the study
sites. Their findings are being compared with those of related stud-
ies in tropical ecosystems.

Whigham and terrestial animal ecologist James Lynch are con-
ducting field studies on the configurations of forest patches that
are necessary to maintain bird and plant communities. The abund-
ance and diversity of forest birds and plants are being studied as a
factor of the size, degree of isolation, floristic composition phenol-
ogy, and successional status of their forest habitat. Preliminary
findings indicate that many of the species of insectivorous birds
that migrate to the tropics are significantly reduced in abundance
in smaller forest tracts in comparison with larger ones.

Lynch and Whigham are also collaborating on a study of the
feeding behavior of the white-tailed deer population on Coaches

22 / Smithsonian Year 1978
Island (one of the Poplar Islands in Cheaspeake Bay). They are
comparing the impact of the population on the diversity and
quantity of plant material, both in the feeding area and in specially
constructed exclosures. Two other islets of the Poplar Island group
are the sites of a long-term study of the fate of non-native popula-
tions of white-footed mice. In the Rhode River watershed, Lynch
and his colleagues are examining the effects of secondary plant
succession and land use on the abundance and diversity of a num-
ber of different animal communities. Study plots range from active
cornfields and pasture, through recently abandoned old fields, to
middle and later successional deciduous forest. Data have been
gathered for birds, large and small mammals, ants, litter anthro-
pods, and understory anthropods.

The study of lawn sites by John Falk completes the range of land
use types which are being studied at the Center. He is investigating
the behavior of common lawn invertebrates, specifically their dis-
persal rates and their adaptations to frequent mowing. Most lawn
insects show no movement as a function of mowing; however, the
frit fly (Oscinella grit L.) shows a positive response to new-mowed
lawns. Within twenty-four hours after mowing, populations of
frit flies are once again evenly distributed between mowed and
unmowed lawns.

Watershed Studies

Preliminary results from the testing stations installed by the Center
in the Patuxent River drainage basin, last year, indicated moderate
success in predicting the composition of runoff in Patuxent sub-
watersheds from runoff data drawn from the Rhode River water-
shed. In this study, Center investigators used statistical models
based on land use and topography, which they first calibrated with
sampling data from the Rhode River and then compared with data
from the other drainage areas of the coastal plain. To assure the
accurate characterization of variations in local rainfall and runoff
patterns, a network of twenty-three rain gauges was installed
throughout the Rhode River watershed.

Under the direction of Maria Faust, research continues on the
contribution of runoff from the Rhode River watershed to bacterial
pollution of the estuary. In spite of a small livestock population (as
low as 0.6 animals per hectare), her work indicates that substantial

Science / 23
quantities of indicator bacteria discharge increases proportionately
to basin-size and stream length. This indicates that bacterial dis-
charge is flow dependent and that flow is determined by basin
characteristics. As a result of these studies, she concludes that con-
tamination of the estuary by bacteria of fecal origin in runoff may
be a serious problem, requiring sound land use management prac-
tices for control.

Tung Lin Wu continues to analyze the heavy metal constituents
of watershed runoff and rain water. His studies indicate that rain
water in the Rhode River watershed contains relatively low con-
centrations of manganese and iron, but high concentrations of zinc.
Except for iron and manganese, however, runoff loss to the river
of most heavy metals ranges from only 3 to 70 percent of their
rainfall output. Manganese concentrations are 9 to 23 times greater
in runoff than in rain water.

Estuarine Research

The Center’s esturarine research program soon will be expanded by
the addition of an estuarine animal ecologist. Current studies have
been concentrating on four major areas: analysis of fish population
dynamics in the Rhode River; investigation of factors involved in
the disappearance of sea grasses in the Chesapeake Bay; studies of
the biological activities of plankton; and water quality monitoring.

The primary focus of this year’s fish population research was a
fecundity study on white perch in Muddy Creek, the main fresh
water source of the Rhode River. Under Joseph Miklas’s direction,
an analysis was undertaken of a “hatching success,” that is, the
efficiency of a hatching on both white and yellow perch. Another
study involved comparing the success of laboratory incubation to
stream incubation of both fish. A survey of their larvae in Muddy
Creek was also conducted. This year’s data supports the low popu-
lation estimates of both fish. Presently unexplained, however, is the
extremely poor catch of white perch and what appears to be a
downward trend of this species. Further investigation is planned
to explore these findings.

A team of investigators, led by Drs. Correll, Wu, and Jack W.
Pierce of the National Museum of Natural History, is continuing
to explore environmental factors which may be playing a part in
the virtual disappearance of bay grasses in the Chesapeake Bay. Ten
to twenty years ago, a number of species of higher plants grew

24 / Smithsonian Year 1978
ere

O) ERR Go ier

Mak

rea REN, ‘< Ye

\\

STEINLEIN FARM
(952 - 1263

CULTIVATED RESIDENTIAL. oe ABANDONED BASED ON 1953 FARM PLAN
. AND ON 1952 AERIAL PHOTO
PASTURE/Hay >* MARSH 22 WOODLAND APPRox. SCALE ; 1"=300'-0"

This mapped image of recent land use techniques on a Chesapeake Bay Center for
Environmental Studies holding is one of a series prepared by Center historian Amy
Hiatt. Below. Preschoolers and parents are introduced to ecology at the Chesapeake
Bay Center for Environmental Studies.

widely in the Chesapeake Bay as submerged plant beds. These
dense beds stabilized bottom sediments and acted as wave filters to
protect shorelines on the Bay. Their decline has been linked specu-
latively to increased rates of shoreline erosion in recent years. Co-
inciding with the decline of bay grasses has been the increased use
of agricultural herbicides by area farmers in connection with the
adoption of “no till” or minimum till agricultural methods. Sam-
pling indicates that concentrations of two herbicides occur in sus-
pended bay sediments. These may be toxic to bay grasses since the
grasses trap sediments in their leaves. For the past three years, re-
growths of the plants have been observed to die off after exposure
to storm runoff. Efforts to provide more definitive answers to the
dieoffs include bioassays on four species of the grasses in concen-
trations of herbicides similar to those found in surface waters and
bay bottom sediments.

Maria Faust currently is assessing the quality of the Rhode River
estuary through a detailed examination of indicator microorga-
nisms. For purposes of analysis of the source of bacterial pollution,
she has found that the contribution of the urban and rural sections
of the river can be separated. The segments that receive runoff
from pasture areas with large animal populations clearly contain
a high number of indicator bacteria, whereas those receiving runoff
from urbanized areas contained low cell counts. Seasonal trends
appear to act similarly on both urban and rural segments, but the
source of the bacteria changes. In the urbanized segments, during
the summer, the source of indicator bacteria appears to be of hu-
man origin, whereas in the rural segments bacteria continue to be
from animal sources. Faust has calculated the average daily number
of indicator bacteria from both the rural and urban areas. She has
also determined the number of bacteria per human and animal in
the respective segments. As a result of these analyses, she estimates
that the contribution of fecal coliform from one unit of livestock
is equal to the contribution of 60—70 persons.

EDUCATION

During 1978, cpces has continued its efforts in research and cur-
riculum development in outdoor-centered environment education
and strengthened information transfer and public programs by add-
ing to the staff a permanent public information specialist.

26 / Smithsonian Year 1978
Research in Environmental Education

With the support of the National Science Foundation, John Falk
and John Balling are completing a series of three studies that will
lead to an increased understanding of student learning and behavior
during outdoor science field trips. In addition, this research should
lead to new directions for the improvement of outdoor-centered
education. The first study manipulated the general field trip milieu
in order to determine how the variety of environmental factors
(e.g., day away from school, disruption of normal schedules, bus
rides) surrounding the usual field trip interact with learning and
behavior. In the second study, a survey was made of a representa-
tive, nationwide sample of elementary school teachers, elementary
school principals, college science methods instructors, and nature
center professionals to determine the attitudes and perceptions of
each of these groups toward field trip experiences for children.

Previous research has suggested that both setting novelty and
the number of concrete examples of the study material, (e.g., of
trees, if trees are being studied; of working beehives, if bees are
being studied) affect student learning and behavior. The third
study, therefore, sought to manipulate environmental novelty and
relevance independently in the context of an outdoor science
activity. The data from each of these studies are presently being
analyzed.

In the area of environmental psychology, new initiatives were
made during 1978 by John Balling. First, in a study designed to de-
termine the visual preference of humans for a number of biomes,
the age range of subjects was extended to include infants under one
year of age. Using a paradigm frequently employed in research on
infant visual perception, infants were shown pairs of pictures or
biomes, or natural settings, and the amount of time spent looking
at each was recorded. The study indicated that the infants tended
to gaze longest at the visually most complex picture, in this case a
deciduous forest.

In another study, children of different ages were taken to Big
Island, a 12-acre island located in the Rhode River, and allowed to
explore the island freely for as long as they chose. During their
exploration, the subjects were tracked by two observers. Following
the exploration, they were asked to draw a map of the island and

Serene jf ey
were tested for recognition of specific sciences. From this study, the
staff is beginning to document developmental trends in exploration
patterns and information gathering strategies of the current study
group, a group which ranges in age from 8-14.

Public Education Programs

Initiated in 1975, the teacher-led ecological activities program was
designed to provide children with outdoor experiences which rein-
force or introduce science concepts. Each activity is outlined in a
brochure that includes background information for the teacher,
objectives for the students. a step-by-step procedure section for the
class, and suggested follow-up activities.

Two new curriculum development projects were undertaken. An
estuarine ecology curriculum for 10- to 15-year-old children will be
completed in 1978. A second project is the design of family-centered
environmental education materials utilizing common home environ-
ments. A pilot set of lawn activities was developed and will be
published in 1978.

Another model concept in outdoor environmental education is
the Center’s Summer Ecology Program. The program emphasizes
community-centered learning. It is conducted in seven different loca-
tions away from the Center’s research facility. This approach helps
familiarize children with the human and natural ecology of their
own communities. Four college students and four high school stu-
dents, selected as part of the Smithsonian’s Intern Program, imple-
ment and evaluate educational activities of their own design. At the
end of the summer, the students conduct a one-day workshop on
the outdoor education activities they have developed for the pro-
gram. Environmental educators, science teachers, and other inter-
ested individuals are invited to participate.

A new area of public education for the Center is an introductory
program in ecology for preschoolers and parents. Developed by
education specialist Ann Coren and piloted this summer, the pro-
gram brings children, ages 3-5, and their parents to work in- and
out-of-doors on learning basic ecological concepts.

Information Transfer

A major objective of the Information Transfer Program is to dis-
seminate the Center’s scientific research findings to public groups

28 / Smithsonian Year 1978
that can use this information in making land-use and water-quality
decisions. During 1978, cBces staff continued projects specifically
aimed at publicizing the Center’s watershed and estuarine research
findings.

The Center also provided support in the form of staff time and
expertise to citizen organizations throughout the Chesapeake Bay
region. Activities for these groups included helping to organize
workshops and conferences, developing technical information on
environmental issues, and helping to achieve citizen participation
in land and water-quality planning.

With the addition of a public information officer, the Center
began in the spring to expand its sharing of research and educa-
tional activities with the Smithsonian community and the media—
in the form of news and feature articles—and to enlarge its tour
and community outreach program.

FACILITIES

The new laboratory wing, begun in the fall of 1977, was completed
and occupied at the end of the year. In addition, the second floor
of the Old Dominion Building was remodeled to provide additional
office space. Work was also completed on the renovation of the
Center’s research pier on the Rhode River.

Fort Pierce Bureau

The Smithsonian’s Fort Pierce Bureau is located on the central-east
coast of Florida on an estuarine lagoon near the Atlantic Ocean.
Research centers around life history studies of marine organisms
and systematics and ecological studies of selected marine inverte-
brates of the Indian River lagoon and offshore continental shelf.
An ideal locality for such studies, it is in a zoogeographic transi-
tional zone where both tropical and temperate organisms are avail-
able for study and the Florida Current with its abundant supply of
planktonic larvae is within easy access. A diverse fauna is found
in the variety of habitats from the mangroves, sea-grass beds, and
mud flats of the Indian River lagoon to the sandy beaches and worm
reefs of the oceanic coast and the various substrata of the offshore
continental shelf, including coquinoid limestone ledges, oculinid

Science / 29

Facing page. Dr. John Pilger, a post-
doctoral fellow, collecting sipunculans
from an oyster bed near a mangrove island
in the Indian River, Fort Pierce, Florida.
Right. Collecting oceanic larvae from
surface plankton tows off the coast of
Fort Pierce. Below, left. Larva of a
sipunculan worm from the plankton of
the Florida Current. Living specimen
(magnification 80 X). Below, right. A
common sipunculan worm found in the
oyster beds of the Indian River estuary,
and used in studies of reproductive
biology in the Fort Pierce Bureau’s Life
Histories Program (worm is about 3 cm in
length, magnification is about 7 X).

coral reefs, and shell-hash plains. An established reference collec-
tion contains specimens of the local marine invertebrates and verte-
brates. A small boat is available for work in the river and offshore
waters, and the facility includes a transmission and scanning elec-
tron microscope for use in life history studies. There is limited
space for visiting scientists.

During the past year various aspects of reproduction and larval
development have been studied in a broad spectrum of marine in-
vertebrates including sipunculans, echiurans, turbellarians, gastro-
trichs, prosobranch molluscs, opisthobranch molluscs, decapod
crustaceans, and echinoderms. This work represents the combined
efforts of resident staff, postdoctoral fellows, scientists from the
National Museum of Natural History, and visiting investigators
from other institutions. The baseline information that is being
accumulated on critical stages in reproduction and development is
potentially useful in assessments of environmental stresses and
modifications on populations of marine organisms. Moreover, such
knowledge may contribute significantly to the clarification of
taxonomic identities and the understanding of phylogenetic rela-
tionships among marine invertebrates.

Research on the life histories of sipunculan worms by Dr. Mary
Rice has continued to emphasize studies on the systematics, mor-
phology, and metamorphosis of larvae from open-ocean plankton
as well as the reproductive biology of local species. Sipunculan
larvae of unknown species, common in the surface plankton of the
major currents of the North Atlantic Ocean, are believed to be
transported by currents across the ocean. Thus knowledge of their
systematics is important to an understanding of distribution and
dispersal of sipunculans as well as to basic problems in zoogeog-
raphy. For identification of species, larvae have been reared in the
laboratory; several have been successfully cultured to the level of
juvenile, and one to sexual maturity. The latter has been main-
tained for three years and identified as Golfingia misakiana, a species
known to occur offshore from Fort Pierce. As part of this study,
larvae have been found to undergo metamorphosis in response to
a chemical factor produced by adults. In an analysis of functional
morphology of the larva, ultrastructural data have been accumu-
lated on their terminal attachment organs. Ultrastructural observa-
tions have also been made on the larval eye and will be used for

32 / Smithsonian Year 1978
comparisons with the adult eye of sipunculans and with the eyes
of other coelomate protostomes.

Studies on reproductive biology of sipunculans were carried out
by a postdoctoral fellow, Dr. John Pilger, on a species which is
abundant in the oyster beds near the Fort Pierce inlet. The ratio of
females to males is 9 to 1 in this population and spawned eggs have
been found to develop normally without fertilization by the male.
Facultative parthenogenesis, a primitive mode of reproduction, has
not been previously reported for sipunculans.

Larvae of turbellarian worms occur in the plankton of the Indian
River and the Atlantic Ocean. Little is known about these larval
types and information on their metamorphosis is particularly scant.
As the subject of a postdoctoral research project, Dr. Edward Rup-
pert studied these larvae in terms of their functional morphology,
ultrastructure, settling behavior, and metamorphosis.

Visiting investigators contributed information on various aspects
of reproduction of gastropod molluscs. Research by Dr. Michael
Hadfield of the University of Hawaii determined reproductive pat-
terns for local species of vermetid gastropods. He also studied
mechanisms by which vermetids form nurse eggs; these eggs pro-
vide nutritional material for developing embryos and larvae, but
for unknown reasons do not themselves undergo normal embryo-
genesis.

Reproduction and development of the prosobranch gastropod,
Modulus modulus, a common species in the grass beds of the
Indian River, were investigated by Dr. Richard S. Houbrick of the
National Museum of Natural History. Gametes, spermatophores,
egg masses, and larvae were examined by scanning electron micro-
scopy. Larvae were found to undergo direct development; a de-
scriptive study of their development and hatching was made.

Preliminary to a study on larval development and growth rates
of selected opisthobranch molluscs, Dr. Larry Harris of the Uni-
versity of New Hampshire made a survey of opisthobranchs associ-
ated with certain coelenterates. The aeolid nudibranch Spurilla
neopolitana, collected from the Sebastian Inlet and from Sargassum
weed that had drifted in from the offshore Florida Current, is
known to be a specialist on anemones and apparently changes its
type of larval development in accordance with the nutritional state
of the adult.

Science / 33
The life history of the deep-water sea urchin Coelopleurus flori-
danus has been studied by Dr. David Pawson of the National
Museum of Natural History in collaboration with John Miller of
the Harbor Branch Foundation, Inc. Larvae produced from artificial
spawnings of males and females have been reared and maintained
in the laboratory for several weeks. Larval development will be
compared with the well-known development of the shallow-water
urchin Arbacia punctulata in an assessment of taxonomic relation-
ships of the two species.

Research by Dr. Robert Gore on crustacean biology continued to
emphasize the systematics, larval development, morphology, and
ecology of selected species of lagoonal and continental shelf de-
capod crustaceans. Studies included taxonomic and zoogeographic
aspects of the Parthenopidae larval development of galatheid,
porcellanid, grapsid, xanthid and majid crabs, gonopod morphology
of species of Xanthidae and Goneplacidae from deeper continen-
tal shelf waters, and community and trophic analyses of seagrass
and drift algae-associated macrocrustaceans in the Indian River
lagoon. A long-term program on the systematic ecology of trans-
panamanian geminate and conspecific porcellanid and xanthid
crabs continued, with specimens collected from both Caribbean
and Eastern Pacific waters of Panama.

Visiting investigators conducted primarily physiological and eco-
logical investigations on Indian River crustaceans. Postdoctoral
research by Dr. Jack McDonald investigated niche differentiation
in sympatric species pairs of tropical and subtropical estuarine
brachyuran and anomuran crabs, including aspects of reproductive
physiology, fecundity, breeding cycles, survivorship and recruit-
ment of larvae, as well as general investigations on the anatomy
and histology of brachyuran reproduction. Predoctoral research
centered on morphology of anomuran crab mouthparts, larval de-
velopment of a continental shelf xanthid crab, and an examination
in field and laboratory situations of predator-prey relationships
among seagrass-associated fish and caridean shrimp.

Research on foraminifera, directed by Dr. Martin Buzas of the
Museum of Natural History, has emphasized the process that limits
populations in the Indian River and the role of foraminiferans in
the trophic structure of the estuary. In this subtropical setting,
where seasonal changes are not rigorous, biotic influences are im-

34 / Smithsonian Year 1978
portant as limiting factors. Predation has been examined as a pos-
sible biotic control in a comparison of foraminiferan populations
inside and outside of exclosure cages. Results of experiments which
were run for four-month periods during three different years have
demonstrated larger numbers of foraminifera inside than outside of
the exclosures. Gut analyses of some fish and benthic invertebrates
from the estuary have shown that a number of deposit feeders
ingest foraminifera. In cooperation with the chemistry section of
the Harbor Branch Foundation, Inc., seasonal fluctuations in foram-
iniferans are being compared with measurements of nutrients,
trace metals, and organic carbon in sediment pore water.

Other projects on foraminifera include an offshore exclosure
experiment in collaboration with the Benthic Ecology Section of
the Harbor Branch Foundation, Inc., the laboratory culture of
foraminifera, and a taxonomic survey of foraminiferal species
throughout the estuary.

The established reference collections of invertebrate and verte-
brate specimens from the Indian River region of Florida have been
expanded with additional lots catalogued and the relevant data
stored in a computerized data-retrieval program.

National Air and Space Museum

The new National Air and Space Museum (Nasm), completed in
July 1976, continues to attract record-breaking crowds. Approxi-
mately ten million visitors per year tour the Museum, which is a
national center for the collection, preservation, exhibition, and
study of the history of flight.

In the past year, the staff has worked to implement research pro-
grams and to upgrade exhibit areas at the Museum on the Mall, as
well as at the Museum’s annex, the Silver Hill Museum in Suit-
land, Maryland. Several outreach projects were initiated, and the
Museum’s busy schedule of courses, films, and special lectures was
continued.

Among the nasm’s more visible changes is a new gallery, Flying
for Fun, which opened in June 1978. This exhibit covers the many
ways in which various forms of flying can be enjoyed today. Fea-

Science / 35
tured in the gallery are kite flying, soaring, hang gliding, hot air
ballooning, and sky diving. Also included are displays on flying
discs, boomerangs, and model aircraft building. The model display
is one of the most comprehensive ever assembled and embraces all
aspects of model building as well as several models that are famous
in their own right. The first production light plane, the Aeronca
C-2, rests on the gallery floor.

In fiscal year 1978, work was completed on Exploring the Planets,
a gallery which acquaints visitors with the growth of interest in
the planets and moons of the solar system. It highlights current
knowledge of the planets, the tools of exploration, individual space
missions, and comparative planetology.

For each of the nine planets, there is an exhibit presenting the
latest discoveries. Through the imaginative audiovisuals, visitors
can ride aboard a spacecraft on a sightseeing trip to Venus and
listen to weather reports from the various planets. For children,
there is a musical tour of the Solar System.

The General Aviation gallery was completely redesigned in 1978.
The theme of the new gallery is “Anyone Can Fly.” It has com-
puter quizzes, with which visitors can test their knowledge of
aviation subjects, and General Aviation Trainers (GAT-1s), that
can be “flown” by visitors under the supervision of instructors.
Other features are a cockpit view of the river approach to Wash-
ington National Airport, and three aircraft, a Learjet, a Piper Cub,
and the Cessna 180 Spirit of Columbus, in which Jerrie Mock be-
came the first woman to fly solo around the world.

Two small displays on famous pioneers of aviation have been
opened in the Special Exhibits Gallery. The first summarizes the
many and varied accomplishments of General James H. Doolittle,
race pilot, test pilot, engineer, and leader of the Tokyo Raid. The
second exhibit covers the career of Grover Loening, aircraft de-
veloper of amphibian aircraft.

Other exciting additions to the nasm include the Gossamer
Condor, the mylar-winged aircraft which in 1977 won the Kremer
Prize for the first successful human-powered flight, and an exhibit
commemorating the twentieth anniversary of the Explorer I, this
country’s first artificial satellite. In addition, the Museum was given
the gondola of the Double Eagle II, the first balloon to complete a
transatlantic crossing. It will be placed on display next year.

36 / Smithsonian Year 1978
Katherine Rinehart, the National Air and Space Museum's 20 millionth visitor, was
greeted by Dr. David Challinor, Assistant Secretary for Science, and Melvin B.

Zisfein, Acting Director of the Museum, as she entered the Museum on Sunday,
July 9, 1978. The Museum opened to the public on July 1, 1976. Below. Visitors gaze
at the Saturn V F-1 engine in the Apollo to the Moon Gallery, rated by the NasM as
the most outstanding gallery.

The world’s only “touchable” moon rock, housed in NAsM’s Milestones of
Flight Gallery, is examined by millions of visitors who tour the Museum
each year. Below. Ladder to the Moon by Georgia O'Keefe was one of the
major additions to NAsM’s Flight and the Arts Gallery in 1978. The paint-
ing is on loan from the artist.

Changes at the Silver Hill Museum, the nasm’s preservation, res-
toration, and storage facility, culminated in the opening of a third
building for public tour. In the past year over 7000 people visited
the “no frills’ museum, which is open by appointment only. On
continually changing display there are more than 100 aircraft,
spacecraft, powerplants, and related objects from the Museum's
reserve collection. A treasure for aviation buffs, often more planes
can be seen at the Silver Hill Museum than in the Air and Space
Museum on the Mall.

Major restorations accomplished at the Silver Hill Museum in-
cluded three planes: the Aeronca C—2, the Lockheed XP-80, and
the North American P—51. Work was started on the Bleriot,
Curtiss Pusher, Langley Aerodrome, and Messerschmitt Me 262. In
progress is a complete inventory of the portion of the Nasm’s col-
lection stored at Silver Hill.

In addition to the exhibit modifications, changes have been made
behind the scenes. Michael Collins, former Director of the Air and
Space Museum, accepted the position of Under Secretary of the
Smithsonian Institution. Melvin Zisfein, Deputy Director, was
appointed Acting Director.

The Museum’s strong commitment to artifact loan programs
and to assistance to other museums continued. During the past
year, the astronautical department administered a loan program
which includes approximately 1000 objects on display in 98 mu-
seums in the United States and abroad.

The Department’s contribution to the success of the Space Sci-
ence Exposition opening in Tokyo, Japan, on July 16, 1978, is espe-
cially noteworthy. The largest exhibition of United States space
hardware ever undertaken outside the United States, it was ar-
ranged with the cooperation of the nas, the National Aeronautics
and Space Administration (NASA) and the aerospace industry.
Major artifacts on exhibit include the Saturn 1-B, Mercury-
Redstone, Mercury-Atlas, and Black Brant VC launch vehicles; the
satellites ATS—6, ITOS, Vanguard, and Explorer; and Apollo,
Gemini, and Mercury flown spacecraft.

As part of the Museum’s research program, a number of flight-
related historical studies were produced in the last fiscal year. The
Museum’s Science and Technology Department prepared manu-
scripts on such topics as: the Guggenheim Contribution to Ameri-

Science / 39
can Aviation, Technology Transfer from the Flight Industries to the
General Economy, a History of the Dryden Flight Research Center,
Notable Contributors to Flight Technology, and a History of Ameri-
can Aviation in the Decade of the Twenties. A new aviation book
series, Famous Aircraft of the National Air and Space Museum, was
introduced by the Aeronautics Department with the publication of
Excalibur III, the Story of a Mustang. A second volume is in prog-
ress and should be published in the fall of 1978. In addition, the
fourth edition of Aircraft in Museums Around the World was com-
piled and published by the nas.

An oral history program, organized by Dr. Roger Bilstein, a visit-
ing scholar from the University of Houston, was started by NASM in
1978. Approximately thirty-five aviation and space personalities
were interviewed initially, and the program will continue in 1979.

Another major accomplishment was the publication of the Inter-
national Handbook of Aerospace Awards and Trophies. Compiled
and edited by the staff of the Museum’s Library, the handbook is
the first comprehensive reference source of its kind. All aspects of
flight are included—ballooning, manpowered flight, early racing
events, and exceptional contributions to the engineering and ad-
ministration of aerospace achievements. A unique feature is the
personal name index of over 6000 recipients of aerospace awards.

In the past fiscal year the newly created Education Division began
publication of Air and Space, a free mini-magazine available to ed-
ucators. The circulation of the magazine is approaching 50,000,
making this magazine one of the most read aerospace education
documents in the nation.

The Center for Earth and Planetary Studies, the National Air and
Space Museum’s scientific research arm, worked on a number of
photogeological projects in the past year, which often resulted in
publications. Its primary research source is a complete collection of
lunar photographs, taken by both unmanned probes and by Apollo
astronauts.

Lunar research conducted by the Center in 1978 included studies
of geochemical data obtained from the Apollo 15 and 16 mis-
sions. The physical features of the Moon were analyzed, and studies
of lunar ridges indicated that they may have been caused by global-
scale forces. In addition, progress was made on dating the materials
that fill lunar craters.

40 / Smithsonian Year 1978
In the past year, the Center initiated comparative planetology
research with a study of the wind-blown features on Earth and
Mars. Martian channel and valley characteristics were compared to
the arid and desert areas on Earth.

In conjunction with the Geology Department of Ain Shams Uni-
versity, Cairo, desert erosion and sand movement in Egypt were
analyzed. A sand distribution map of Egypt, which charted sand
fields and dune trends, was prepared from nasa’s Landsat photo-
graphs.

The Center compiled nasa’s Apollo-Soyuz Test Project Summary
Science Report, Vol II, Earth Observations and Photography. This
volume includes the results of investigations made during the
Apollo-Soyuz Test Project, in such diverse fields as oceanography,
meteorology, geology, and hydrology. The Center also prepared a
summation of lunar nomenclature for inclusion in Planetary To-
ponomy, also to be published by nasa. Center personnel play a key
role in keeping the nomenclature files up-to-date for use by Nasa,
the International Astronomical Union, and the United States Board
of Geographic Names.

NASM staff members continue to participate actively in national
and regional meetings of professional societies. The Museum was
host to the Fourth Biennial Conference of the International Plane-
tarium Society, August 6-10, 1978, which was attended by more
than 300 delegates from the various planetariums throughout the
world.

The special representations and activities sponsored by the Mu-
seum drew large crowds. Two series, Exploring Space with Astron-
omers and Monthly Sky Lectures, again were held in the Museum’s
Albert Einstein Spacearium. Topics included: “The Message of
Starlight,” by astronomer Sandra Faber; ‘Sun, Stones, and Stars,”
by Dr. John Eddy; and “Planets, Planets, Everywhere,” by NAasM
Spacearium Officer Jerry Barbely.

Regularly scheduled, free aviation films in the theater also
brought people to the Museum after-hours. As they left, many were
able to catch a glimpse of such notable artifacts as the Wright
Brothers’ 1903 Kitty Hawk Flyer and Lindbergh’s Spirit of St.
Louis. In December, Christmas carolers entertained visitors, while
in January Dr. Ernst Stuhlinger, former Associate Director of Sci-
ence at the Marshall Space Flight Center, delivered the first annual

Science / 41
Wernher von Braun lecture. As part of the nation’s observance of
Sun Day, a lecture discussing studies of the sun from space was
given by former skylab astronaut, Dr. Owen Garriott.

The second annual Smithsonian Frisbee Festival, held over the
Labor Day weekend, attracted thousands to the grounds of the
Washington Monument to see exhibitions by world-class players
and three disc-catching dogs. Free workshops for all ages and abili-
ties were provided so that everyone could learn more about this en-
joyable, aeronautical device. During the festival, a Frisbee disc of
note was accessioned, which will be placed in the newly opened
Flying for Fun Gallery.

The nasm’s daily presentations played to near capacity crowds in
1978. The award-winning IMAX film To Fly was seen by approxi-
mately 1,660,000 Museum visitors, and Cosmic Awakening, the
major feature in the Albert Einstein Spacearium was seen by over
370,000 people. In addition, work is being completed on a new
planetarium show, “Worlds of Tomorrow,” which is scheduled to
open in November 1978. The second IMAX film (successor to To
Fly) is expected to premier in the Museum’s theater in early 1979.

The nas continues to work to provide a satisfying Museum ex-
perience for all visitors, including the handicapped. As part of this
effort, a paperless Braille reading machine was installed in the So-
cial Impact from Flight Gallery. The new device gives blind visitors
access to quotations from scientists and philosophers who have
speculated about life in the future. This information is available to
sighted visitors by linking a television screen with a computer.

The book, Museums and Handicapped Students: Guidelines for
Educators, was published in the past fiscal year. Funded by a grant
from the Office of Education of the Department of Health, Educa-
tion and Welfare, it consists of a set of guidelines to assist educa-
tors in establishing educational programs for the handicapped. Over
5000 copies have been distributed at no cost, 4000 directly by the
NAsM’s Education Division.

This same Education Division scheduled and performed tours for
over 50,000 visitors in the past year. Special tours for the handi-
capped again were offered, including signed tours for the deaf.

The Museum’s Art Department has been busy cataloguing and
accessioning over 1300 paintings, drawings, and field notes pro-
duced under nasa’s Art program.

42, / Smithsonian Year 1978
In the course of examining previously accessioned prints, a hand-
written note, believed to have been done by George Washington,
was discovered and turned over to the nasm Library. The note
related to an invitation to Washington to observe balloon flight ac-
tivities of Professor Foulke at the University of Pennsylvania on
May 17, 1784.

The artwork on display in the Flight and the Arts Gallery was
refined with the addition of several new pieces. Georgia O’Keeffe’s
painting, Ladder to the Moon, (on loan from the artist) was placed
on display, in addition to two aviation paintings by British artist
Frank Wootton, works by Ingo Swann, Wang Ming, and a portrait
drawing of General Doolittle by Paul Calle.

New art pieces were added to the World War I, World War II,
Balloons and Airships, and Flight Testing galleries. Selected pieces
from Stuart Speiser’s collection of twenty-two photo-realist paint-
ings, on loan to the Museum, were placed on display in the admin-
istrative areas. Research was conducted in preparation for an ex-
hibit on aerial photographs, to be installed in the Flight and the
Arts Gallery in 1979.

nasmM’s Library made progress in microfilming the Museum’s in-
formation and documentary archives, and a system was imple-
mented to update the research files. The Aeronautics Department
has asked major and minor aircraft companies and other aviation
organizations to provide specified material. A great deal of valuable
documentation has been collected and added to the files. The pro-
gram is ongoing, and regular channels of communication have been
established with the donors.

National Museum of Man, Center for the Study of Man

NATIONAL ANTHROPOLOGICAL FILM CENTER

The National Anthropological Film Center (Narc) contributions in
Human Studies Research this year included co-production with the
National Film Board of Canada of three educational films depicting
aspects of the way of life of the Pashtoon Nomads of Afghanistan.
This pioneer effort to prepare an accurate and informative film on
important aspects of the human condition will also be released in a
one-hour version for national television.

Science / 43
As a natural corollary to its focus on increased understanding of
the human condition, the NAFc is interested in theoretical examina-
tions of aspects of the nature of human knowledge. In a symposium
before the American Association for the Advancement of Science
during the 1977-1978 year Center Director Richard Sorenson pre-
sented theoretical issues relating to problems of applying the meth-
odology of natural science to studies of human existence.

The Center began an analysis of film on daily life of traditional
Micronesian people of Woleai Atoll and found a basic pattern
of emotional-response patterning emerging in early childhood. This
culturally specific behavior pattern provides a basis without which
the traditional social and political system of these Micronesian peo-
ple might not be able to come into being or persist.

Continued study of the research films of childhood among the
Fore people of Papua, New Guinea, showed that a previously un-
studied pattern of child neuromuscular development emerges from
a system of tactile communication employed before the young are
old enough to speak. Reported in a chapter soon to be published by
Cambridge University Press, these findings suggest routes to neuro-
muscular competence not hitherto known that provide considerable
self-safety to young children.

In addition to increasing the efficiency of its internal administra-
tion system, NAFc during fiscal year 1978 was able to perfect speci-
fications for a new single-person camera rig that enables the Center
to inconspicuously record film and sound in remote countries
where the customary two-man film and sound team attract so much
attention that they become a “show.” This new low-profile visual
data gathering instrument has been tested and is now in use in the
field.

With a personal invitation from the Dalai Lama to help him pre-
serve a record of traditional aspects of Tibetan civilization before it
disappears, and receiving Government of India blessings for the
project, the National Anthropological Film Center in 1977-1978
turned its attention on the high Himalayas of Ladakh. Collaborat-
ing directly with the Library of Tibetan Works and Archives, the
NAFC assembled a team including a Tibetan research filmmaker from
Nepal, three scholars of Tibetan Civilization, and a part-time NAFC
staffer from Harvard. A month of survey across this high Hima-
layan region finally revealed a remarkable traditional setting, which

44 / Smithsonian Year 1978
was also unusually amenable to research film study. Perched atop a
14,000-foot Himalayan peak was an active and traditional Tibetan
Buddhist monastery still carrying on the ancient practices with the
traditional support relation with a surrounding, still intact, lay
community in the valley below. Fortunately, our Tibetan research
filmer had himself lived in a similar monastery during his youth;
this greatly facilitated the settling of our team into the monastery
itself. A last representative of the important Tantrayana Buddhist
tradition is now about to become part of the World Ethnographic
Film Sample.

On the south side of the Himalayan chain, in Nepal, the impor-
tant Newar civilization once flourished in splendid isolation. While
the Newar civilization has now merged with today’s modern tech-
nological and commercial world, there remain in the countryside a
few traditional villages where the socioeconomic and behavioral
foundations of the original civilization persist. In such subsistence-
agricultural Jyapu villages lay the seeds of the original Newars.
This way of life still continues in a few villages, as a last represen-
tative of a very early type of refined agricultural and human orga-
nization that differs markedly from other peasant communities of
the world. In collaboration with the prestigious Royal Nepal Acad-
emy and its Vice-chancellor, Lain S. Bangdel, the Narc has inaugu-
rated its first research film study in Nepal with the Jyapu culture.
The narc research cinematographer learned both the Napali and
Newar languages in order to be able to move into selected Jyapu
villages as our one-person “filming team” with new equipment,
which was designed for such a contingency. naFc’s Barbara Johnson
is now living in and filming another important contribution to the
World Ethnographic Film Sample.

The original Polynesian cultures of the Pacific no longer exist.
Only elements live on. In the Cook Islands, performance traditions
stemming from the original culture are still presented. With an in-
vitation coming directly from the Premier of the Cook Islands him-
self, the NaFc assembled a largely volunteer research filming team
in an attempt to act before this last aspect of the once great Poly-
nesian culture also disappears from the world. The narc was also
able to place its Micronesian research filmer on Pukapuka Atoll, the
most remote of the Cook Islands, to obtain 28,000 feet of visual
data, with supporting sociological data, on the remaining traditional

Science / 45
aspects of this type of Polynesian child handling and rearing prac-
tice in relation to the pattern of intercommunity dependency of
these islands. This material is now being assembled as part of the
visual/aural data resources of the narc for entry into the World
Ethnographic Film Sample.

Significant bodies of film data accessioned by narc included San-
dra Nichol’s 70,000 feet of film shot in western Kenya. What ap-
pears on her films is not likely ever to be filmed again in Kenya.
The Center also took Lewis Cotlow’s Arctic film on the basis that
the way of life it represents has been completely transformed.

RESEARCH INSTITUTE ON IMMIGRATION AND ETHNIC STUDIES

The Research Institute on Immigration and Ethnic Studies (ru1&s)
continued to carry out a program fostering the ongoing study of
the impact of contemporary immigration upon and its discernible
implications for the future of the United States and the interna-
tional community.

In cooperation with the International Studies Association, RITES
held five sessions/workshops dealing with three topics of special
interest to students of migration studies. Attended by scholars from
here and abroad, the sessions dealt with problems and opportuni-
ties of using quantitative data on immigration and immigrants for
research purposes; historical and sociological studies of West Indian
labor migration to Panama and Central America; and contemporary
studies of the black woman and the migratory experience in the
United States. Follow-up research on these topics continued
throughout the year.

RIIES personnel participated in various other conferences through-
out the hemisphere, including the annual meetings of the American
Sociological Association, the Afro-American Studies Association,
and the Latin American Studies Association, as well as the uNEsSco
experts meeting on The Cultures of the Caribbean. In addition, the
rues Director, Dr. Roy S. Bryce-Laporte, initiated and convened a
plenary session of the Society for the Study of Social Problems on
United States immigration policy.

The rues publication series continued in operation. Fiscal year
1978 saw the appearance of Pacific Migration to the United States:
Trends and Themes in Historical and Sociological Literature, by
Shirley Hune. A shorter version of this publication later appeared

46 / Smithsonian Year 1978
in Sage Race Relations Abstracts. Also, a special issue of Society
magazine on “The New Immigrant Wave” contained eight articles
that were versions of papers presented at the rues Bicentennial con-
ference on the new immigration. Complete proceedings of that con-
ference went to press this year; they are titled Sourcebook on the
New Immigration and are being published by Transaction Books.

National Museum of Natural History

The public enjoyed a series of notable new exhibits at the National
Museum of Natural History (NMNnH) during the 1977-1978 year.
“Splendors of Nature” opened in October 1977, a permanent hall
displaying hundreds of ravishing specimens from the collections.
Museum Director Porter Kier’s idea was not to provide any scientific
message as the Museum ordinarily does in its exhibits, but rather
each object was to be on view in the hall for just one reason—be-
cause it is beautiful. ““Western Civilization: Origins and Tradi-
tions,” a permanent hall that traces the heritage left by the ancient
civilizations of the Mesopotamians, Egyptians, Greeks, and Etrus-
cans opened in June 1978. Treasures gathered by the Smithsonian
over a period of more than 100 years are on view, including richly
painted Egyptian mummy coffins from the tombs of Thebes; royal
drinking goblets from Homer’s legendary city of Troy, and a mas-
sive mosaic from a Roman temple in Carthage. Low-priced guide-
books in color for these two halls are under preparation by the
Office of Exhibits; eventually, brochures will be available for all of
the Museum’s permanent new halls. The first two guides in the
series, “Ice Age Mammals and the Emergence of Man,” and “The
Insect Zoo,” were issued in 1977-1978.

In April and May 1978 the Museum was host to “Treasures of
Mexico: from the Mexican National Museums,” an exhibit of 150
masterworks of Mexican art from the pre-Columbian period and
the four centuries since the arrival of the Spanish in 1492. The ex-
hibit was brought to the Smithsonian by the Armand Hammer
Foundation with the cooperation of the National Museum of An-
thropology and History in Mexico City and other regional national
museums throughout Mexico.

Science / 47
Other notable exhibits at the Museum during the year included
“Beyond the Ocean, Beneath a Leaf,” nature photography by Mu-
seum staffer Kjell Sandved; “Perfectly Beautiful—Art in Science,”
works by Museum scientific illustrators and colleagues; and

ws

“Sringar,” colorful Indian costumes that demonstrated geographi-
cal and cultural differences on the vast subcontinent of India. Two
major gems were acquired for exhibit: the 67.89-carat Victoria-
Transvaal diamond, a gift of Leonard and Victoria Wilkinson, and
the 75-carat Hooker emerald, once owned by a Turkish sultan and
a gift of Mrs. Stewart Hooker.

Ethnological fieldwork conducted over a 26-year period in the
Korean village of Sam Jong Dong by Dr. Eugene I. Knez, the Mu-
seum’s curator of Asian anthropology, provided the basis for the
1977 exhibit, “Korean Village in Transition.”

To reach out to schools that for one reason or another seldom
bring their pupils to the Museum to make use of its resources, the
National Museum of Natural History Office of Education in fiscal
year 1978 inaugurated a van outreach program. As many as a
dozen volunteers simultaneously visited schools, carrying with
them presentation kits filled with fossils, mounted animals, and
other Museum materials. This made it possible to maximize the
number of pupils contacted during a single school visit. Over 109
classes in a dozen schools in the inner city and surrounding coun-
ties were reached in this way. Later in the year the outreach pro-
gram began to investigate the possibility of serving the elderly and
handicapped in area nursing homes and hospitals. The program is
being developed further for the coming year. In cooperation with
Gallaudet College, the Office is also continuing its courses within
the Museum for persons with hearing handicaps. Generous dona-
tions of scientific equipment, money, and collections were received
in 1977-1978 that made it possible for the Office to continue devel-
opment of the Museum’s unique new Naturalist Center. Thousands
of persons interested in collecting, identifying, and studying natural
history objects made use of the Center’s facilities.

An encyclopedic Smithsonian handbook on California Indians
was published in April 1978, the first of a 20-volume set that will
summarize all that is known about the history and cultures of
North American Indians and Eskimos, from their earliest prehistory
through the present.

48 / Smithsonian Year 1978

Exhibits staff preparing display of Egyptian mummy coffins for “Western
Civilization” exhibit. Photo by Chip Clark. Below. Workmen installing
colossal stone Olmec head at the Mall entrance of the National Museum
of Natural History for the “Treasures of Mexico” exhibit. Photo by Doc
Dougherty.

:

The whole encyclopedia, called the Handbook of North Ameri-
can Indians, under the general editorship of William C. Sturtevant
at the Museum and just this year transferred from csm to the man-
agerial control of nMNuH, has been in preparation since 1970. It
replaces the standard authoritative two-volume reference work, the
Handbook of American Indians North of Mexico, which was pub-
lished by the Smithsonian 1907-1910. An entirely new Handbook
was needed since Indian and Eskimo societies have changed a great
deal over the past 70 years and much more anthropological and his-
torical information about them has become available.

California (volume 8 of the series but the first volume to be’com-
pleted) is edited by Robert F. Heizer, professor of anthropology at
the University of California at Berkeley. It contains 72 chapters by
the 47 outstanding authorities on the Indian cultures of the region.
A chapter is devoted to each of the 60 or so tribes native to the area
that now includes most of the modern state of California and parts
of Oregon and Mexico—ranging from the Yurok and the Tolowa
in the north to the Cahuilla, Ipai, and Tipai in the south, and from
the Chumash on the coast to the Eastern Miwok and Western
Mono in the Sierra foothills.

There are also chapters on the languages of the California Indi-
ans, and on what has been learned about the long prehistory of the
native peoples of the state. Other chapters summarize the history
of California Indians, including their relations with the Euro-
American invaders of their country.

Other volumes will be issued as they are ready. Volume 15,
Northeast, will be published in October 1978. At least two volumes
will appear in 1979: volume 6, Subarctic, and volume 9, Southwest
(the first of two on this area).

The Scientific Event Alert Network (sEAN) increased its network
of worldwide scientific correspondents to approximately 1000 mem-
bers, and improved the monthly Bulletin with a new format and
additional graphic aids. The Bulletin, previously available only to
correspondents, is now offered to the general public by subscription
from the National Technical Information Service.

During the year, 36 volcanic events, 7 meteorite falls and finds
(one of which included 310 specimens from 20—50 meteorites found
at Allan Hills, Antarctica), and the strandings or sightings of 473
individual marine mammals were reported in the Bulletin. In addi-

50 / Smithsonian Year 1978
tion, 4 mass whale strandings with numbers of animals ranging
from 15 to 169 were reported from Australia, Canada, New Zea-
land, and the United States. Many other kinds of natural science
events, including all significant earthquakes, were reported.

sEAN began contributing monthly columns on current geophysi-
cal and meteoritical events to Geotimes and Eos magazines, thereby
disseminating such information to a large, professional audience.

Staff biologist Shirley Maina participated in the Second Confer-
ence on the Biology of Marine Mammals in San Diego in December
1977, and Lindsay McClelland, staff geologist, delivered a paper—
“Summary of 1977 Global Volcanic Activity’”—at the Cordilleran
Section of the Geological Society of America annual meeting in
Tempe, Arizona, March 1978.

National Museum of Natural History archeologist Dr. Dennis
Stanford has excavated mammoth bones that were used as tools by
hunters on the Colorado Plains during the Ice Age. The hand-
worked bone came from deposits which have been dated as 20,000
years old and thus its discovery doubles the known time that man
is known to have lived on the North American continent.

To establish that the bones at these ancient sites were not simply
broken and flaked by natural processes, Stanford and a team of
scientists in March 1978 conducted a unique experiment with an
elephant that had died at Boston’s Franklin Park Zoo. Cutting up
the elephant in the same way that he hypothesizes ancient man
butchered mammoths, Stanford created impact impressions, frac-
tures, striations and polish on the elephant bone that closely resem-
bled the scars on mammoth bones found at the Colorado sites and
at other archeological locations.

During the butchering experiment a 21-pound boulder was used
to break the elephant’s long bones. This produced spiral fractures
and unusually sharp large bone flakes of a type often found at
archeological sites. The team found these flakes extremely effective
as cutting instruments and believe that it would have been quite
possible for mammoths to have been in large part butchered with
tools like this made expediently on the spot from the mammoth’s
own bones. Stanford concluded that because of the number of steps
it took to produce such bone tools, it would be almost impossible
for the flakes at the sites to have been fortuitiously duplicated in
nature.

Science / 51
Dr. Dennis Stanford (left) and Richard Morlan remove a thigh bone from the ele-
phant they dissected in the manner in which Dr. Stanford hypothesizes ancient
man butchered mammoths. This unique experiment was carried out at Front Royal,

Virginia, on an elephant that had died at Boston’s Franklin Park Zoo. Photo by Vic
Krantz.
In 1934, Luelen Bernart started to write a history of his Micro-
nesian island, Ponape, from its legendary beginnings to its people’s
first contact with Europeans. As a rare example of a history com-
piled by an indigenous Pacific islander, it bears little resemblance to
works produced by historians from our own culture. Myth is mixed
with history, customs, and botanical and zoological lore. Luelen
died around the end of World War II, one year before Dr. Saul
Riesenberg, now senior ethnologist and NMNH specialist on the
islands of the Pacific, visited Ponape for his first fieldwork. In his
search for material on island history he was shown a copy of Lu-
elen’s narrative in handwritten manuscript. Fascinated by the work,
Riesenberg made it the subject of extensive study. Translated and
edited by Riesenberg, the manuscript has now been published for
the first time, in collaboration with Micronesian expert John Fischer
and the ethnonutritionist Marjorie Whiting. The Book of Luelen
is volume eight in the Pacific History Series published by the Aus-
tralian National University Press.

Three or four times a year at the National Museum of Natural
History, a series of scientific papers is bound and mailed to the
world’s leading experts on tropical islands. The Atoll Research Bul-
letin, as the periodical is known, carries the latest reports of work
in their field—from investigations of coral reefs in the West Indies
to observations on the climate of an Indian Ocean island.

Knowledge of tropical island ecology has increased enormously
over the past 25 years and much of the new data was first pub-
lished in the Atoll Research Bulletin. Founder and editor-in-chief of
the Bulletin is Dr. F. Raymond Fosberg, a Smithsonian botanist and
ecologist who has pursued a long-term interest in oceanic island
plants, so different from those of continents.

After spending much of his early career in the 1930s working in
Hawaii, Fosberg went to work in 1951 for the United States Geo-
logical Survey to do Pacific Island research. Since then not a year
has passed without his visiting an island somewhere in the tropics.

To make certain that scientific data being brought back from the
Pacific by a series of United States Government expeditions was
not simply dropped into filing cabinets and forgotten, Fosberg
founded the Atoll Research Bulletin in September 1951.

From the outset Fosberg’s co-editor has been Dr. Marie Héléne

Science / 53
Sachet. Hers is the job of editing—improving manuscripts, detect-
ing bibliographic errors, generally making sure all the details are
correct and pushing the manuscripts to publication. Dr. David
Stoddart of Cambridge University recently became the Bulletin’s
third co-editor. All told, 219 papers have been placed between the
covers of the Bulletin. From 1952-1965 publication costs were un-
derwritten by the Office of Naval Research through the old Pacific
Science Board, an arm of the National Academy of Sciences Research
Council. But, when Fosberg and Sachet came to work at the Smith-
sonian in 1966, the Institution assumed the costs. Preparation of
certain issues has been subsidized by other agencies, including the
Fish and Wildlife Service. Papers in the Bulletin now cover the ecol-
ogy not only of Pacific atolls but of islands across the tropics.

As the Department of Interior develops official lists of plants to
be protected, it will be calling upon an authoritative reference book
newly produced by the Smithsonian. Endangered and Threatened
Plants of the United States, jointly published by the Smithsonian
and the World Wildlife Fund, U.S. Appeal, was written by Dr. Ed-
ward S. Ayensu, Director of the Museum of Natural History En-
dangered Species Program, and Dr. Robert A. DeFilipps, Coordina-
tor of the Program’s Endangered Flora Project. The two authors
had the staff assistance of Sam Fowler, Mary Mangone, Carol
Mitti-Natella, and Dr. William Rice.

The new book is an updated and much expanded version of the
Report on Endangered and Threatened Plant Species of the United
States, assembled three and a half years ago under Dr. Ayensu’s di-
rection. This preliminary effort identified some 10 percent of the
20,000 kinds of plants within the 49 continental states as being in
jeopardy. Dr. Ayensu, who sees the compilation as one requiring
constant monitoring and updating, sought to involve plant special-
ists all over the world in this process. Calls and letters with new in-
formation flooded the project office in response to the initial report.
Not only professional botanists, but also thousands of people from
garden clubs, utilities companies, and every imaginable botanical
and environmental affiliation expressed interest.

The influx of facts and expert opinion dictated revision, updating
and further documentation of the original lists. Some heretofore
thought rare species were found to be abundant, and vice versa.
Species that had been overlooked in the first report were brought to

54 / Smithsonian Year 1978
the attention of the authors. Most dramatically, more than a half-
dozen species, long considered extinct, were rediscovered.

Prior to 1970 the National Museum of Natural History’s only
large insect holdings from the vast Oriental region were from the
Philippine Islands and southeast China. But at that time the Mu-
seum began its Ceylon Insect Project, funded by the Smithsonian
Foreign Currency Program, and organized and headed by Dr. Karl
V. Krombein. Now in its eighth year, the Sri Lanka Project has pro-
vided an unparalleled opportunity to augment the Smithsonian Na-
tional Collections in a geographical region of great entomological
significance.

Working in cooperation with officials of Sri Lanka’s National
Museum in Colombo, Dr. Krombein and fourteen other collaborat-
ing scientists have conducted exhaustive faunal surveys of the ter-
restrial and aquatic arthropods of Sri Lanka—gathering more than
half a million specimens. A tangential benefit of this fieldwork has
been to provide training in entomological science for Sri Lankans.
Colombo Museum employees and University students have accom-
panied visiting teams in the field, learning how to collect and pre-
serve insects and make worthwhile observations relating to insect
biology.

The collections made in these surveys have been processed and
sorted at the Smithsonian and distributed to 125 authorities
throughout the world for study. After the material is worked up
and returned to the Smithsonian, duplicate sets are shipped to the
Colombo Museum and the Department of Zoology at the Univer-
sity of Sri Lanka, Peradeniya, providing these institutions, for the
first time, with collections of native insects that have been reviewed
and accurately identified by specialists.

For Sri Lanka, the project not only strengthens their collections
and provides professional training, it also promises considerable
economic benefits through the detection of potential disease vectors
and timber and crop pests.

Dr. Stephen Wood of Brigham Young University, Utah, a spe-
cialist on bark and ambrosia beetles, many species of which are im-
portant pests of commercial timber, discovered that the most de-
structive species of ambrosia beetle in the world was present in Sri
Lanka in large numbers.

Scientists collecting insects of medical importance include: Dr.
Douglas M. Davies of McMaster University in Ontario, a specialist

Science / 55
on insects commonly called blackflies or buffalo gnats. Species of
this family are known to serve as vectors of onchocerciasis and
tularemia, and also to transmit haematoza to both wild and domes-
tic mammals and birds; Yiau-Min Huang and E. L. Peyton of the
Smithsonian’s Medical Entomology Project collected mosquitoes
throughout the island. One of their more significant findings is the
discovery of a new species of a group known to be involved in
other Oriental regions in the transmission of the dengue viruses and
filarasis; Dr. Donald H. Messersmith of the University of Maryland
collected biting midges that are known vectors of filariasis as well
as other protozoa and viruses affecting man and animals.

Dr. Krombein’s work has concentrated on collection and biologi-
cal observations of Sri Lanka’s wasps and bees. Wasps, in particu-
lar, had been little investigated on the island by earlier workers.
Many new species were collected especially of the smaller, obscure
species. Dr. Krombein has begun publishing his biological observa-
tions in a revisionary series under the title, Biosystematic Studies of
Ceylonese Wasps.

One of Dr. Krombein’s intriguing discoveries was a wasp species
related to members of a species group restricted to South India and
Madagascar. The females are wingless, limiting their dispersion.
Dr. Krombein notes that the distribution of the wasps and their
relationships are particularly significant if one recalls the close con-
nection which existed eons ago when Sri Lanka, South India, and
Madagascar were adjacent parts of the ancient Gondwanaland su-
percontinent, now widely separated by continental drift.

Other Smithsonian scientists who worked in Sri Lanka include
Dr. Donald R. Davis, who concentrated on collecting the island’s
moths; Dr. Oliver S. Flint, Jr., aquatic insects; Dr. Paul J. Spangler,
aquatic beetles; Dr. Richard W. Baumann, stoneflies and other
aquatic insects; Dr. and Mrs. Michael Robinson, spiders, particu-
larly araneids, and other arachnids; and Mr. Gary F. Hevel, flies.

The National Museum of Natural History’s Dr. Clyde F. E. Roper
has conducted important experiments over the past two years with
Dr. Richard E. Young that demonstrate how bioluminescence helps
squids and other midwater oceanic animals survive. Dr. Young, a
biological oceanographer at the University of Hawaii, and Dr.
Roper verified that light producing organs (photophores) located on

56 / Smithsonian Year 1978
the ventral sides of head, arms, eyes, and viscera of squid can act
as a camouflage mechanism. The two scientists showed that squid
perceive the quality and quantity of the dim downwelling light at
the depths where they live and then light up their photophores to
match this background light. The result is that they obliterate their
silhouettes and render themselves invisible to predators below them.

This defensive tactic, called “counterillumination,” had been sus-
pected by scientists for many years but had never been experimen-
tally verified because of the difficulty of observing the behavior of
mid-water animals in the open sea or in aquariums. Aquarium ob-
servations had been impossible because the animals always died al-
most immediately after being taken from the ocean. Drs. Roper and
Young solved this problem by constructing a shipboard aquarium
system in which the squids could be kept alive and observed under
regulated conditions of light and temperature.

The squid were collected very carefully in special trawls, then
swiftly transferred to a holding aquarium in which the temperature
of the sea water was regulated so that it would coincide with that
experienced by the animals during their daily migrations from
depths of 500-750 meters during the day (40-45 degrees F.) up to
warmer waters of 100-350 meters at night (55-60 degrees F.).

The observation aquarium lay inside a black, light-shielded box
with a rheostatically controlled overhead blue light. The squid’s
silhouette was observed in a tilted mirror set beneath the glass-
bottomed aquarium.

Drs. Roper and Young found that when they turned on the stim-
ulus light, a squid turned its lights on, matched the intensity of the
stimulus light, and disappeared from sight. When they turned the
light off, the squid turned its photophores off. Next an experiment
was devised that confirmed that squids can regulate their light to
match the changing light conditions that exist in their natural en-
vironment.

An extremely sensitive photo-multiplier tube was used to meas-
ure the intensity of overhead light. Each squid—confined in a cage |
in the tank so that it couldn’t swim out of the overhead light—was
exposed step by step through a series of increasing light intensities.
The squids responded by counterilluminating against brighter and
brighter overhead lights, until finally an intensity was reached that
was so bright they couldn’t match it; then they showed signs of

Science / 57
ore . f + agit i
“4 = » eo
- = ©

bgt — a ts.

TP Ls ees 1.

Facing page, top. Dr. Karl V. Krombein
collecting wasps in Sri Lanka. Facing
page, bottom. Dr. F. Raymond Fosberg
examining plants on a Pacific island. Photo
by Kjell Sandved. Above. Dr. Brian Mason
examining iron meteorite discovered in
Antarctica. Photo by Vic Krantz. Left.
Drawing shows the pattern of photophores
(light organs) on the squid Abraliopsis. The
glow from the many tiny light organs
matches the intensity of the natural light
in the sea and obliterates the animal’s
silhouette, thereby making the squid
invisible to predators.
stress and became physically agitated. The process was reversed
and the light intensities reduced to find the dimmest intensity at
which the squids’ luminosity functions. Each species, it turns out,
has a specific range of light intensities through which it can regu-
late. According to Dr. Roper it can now be demonstrated that this
range corresponds to the light intensities experienced over the nor-
mal vertical distribution of these species in the ocean.

Most recently Drs. Young and Roper have demonstrated that
squids and fishes possess light receptive organs, in addition to the
eyes, that serve as light-meters to monitor the downwelling light.
With these extra-occular light receptors the animals are able to con-
tinuously regulate their bioluminescent counterillumination, while
the eyes are free to concentrate on hunting for prey and detecting
predators.

Two rare meteorites have been discovered by the National Mu-
seum of Natural History’s Dr. Brian Mason among an accumulation
of meteoritic material gathered in the Antarctic by a National Sci-
ence Foundation expedition. One of the two represents an entirely
new class of achondrites, a type of stony meteorite that does not
have tiny beadlike globules called chondrules. According to Dr.
Mason, the Antarctica specimen shows some resemblance to the
two existing classes of achondrite meteorites but its overall com-
position is significantly different. It is the first new type of achon-
drite meteorite to be discovered in 60 years.

Achrondrites and other meteorite types are important to scien-
tists because they can give clues about the physical and chemical
evolution of the solar system.

Dr. Mason also identified a Type II carbonaceous chondrite me-
teorite. Only 15 specimens of this type, which are characterized by
their high carbon content, had previously been found. These mete-
orites contain a variety of amino acids, the building blocks of pro-
teins, and scientists believe this material suggests a way in which
life could have begun on earth and on other planetary bodies. Me-
teorites of this type could have fallen on planets in large numbers,
bringing in complex organic molecules.

The two rare meteorites were among 310 specimens, represent-
ing 30-40 different meteorites, gathered on patches of bare ice in
late 1977 and early 1978 in the Transantarctic Mountains in Vic-
toria Land, about 120 miles northwest of McMurdo Station, the

60 / Smithsonian Year 1978
principal United States scientific outpost in Antarctica. Dr. William
A. Cassidy, a University of Pittsburgh geologist, and Dr. Keizo
Yani of the Japanese National Institute of Polar Research in Tokyo,
headed the joint United States-Japanese expeditions that discovered
the material.

Natural processes unique to Antarctica made the finds possible.
When the meteorites originally fell, over a period of millions of
years, they were deeply buried by snow and ice in the Antarctic ice
cap. The ice flowed slowly toward the coast and stalled against a
coastal mountain range. Strong winds then wore down the ice sur-
face and exposed the meteorites. Especially important to scientists
was the fact that the meteorites had been preserved from contami-
nation and decay by Antarctica’s snow and ice and freezing tem-
peratures. To preserve this pristine quality, the scientists used
gloves to pick up the ancient specimens and then carefully placed
them in airtight and uncontaminated stainless steel canisters, main-
tained at sub-freezing temperatures.

The specimens were shipped to special moon rock handling fa-
cilities at the Johnson Space Center in Houston. The eight most un-
usual meteorites sorted out of the lot were given priority. Chips
from each of these were sent to the National Museum of Natural
History where Dr. Mason and his colleagues are among the world’s
leading experts in the petrographic analysis that establishes a mete-
orite’s basic character—a prerequisite for further studies. Thin sec-
tions were cut and mounted so Dr. Mason could examine each
section under the optical microscope and conduct an electron micro-
probe analysis.

Dr. Mason reported the scientific description of the eight
samples—including the two rarities—to other members of a Na-
tional Science Foundation committee, which will recommend further
study of the material. The remainder of the Antarctica specimens
also underwent examination at the Smithsonian.

Drs. G. Arthur Cooper and Richard E. Grant were honored for
outstanding achievement by the Director of the National Museum
of Natural History in December 1977 after the publication of the
final volume of Permian Brachiopods of West Texas. The work has
been hailed by authorities as a paleontological classic.

The study had its genesis in the 1930s. As a graduate student
at Yale, Dr. Cooper had become interested in brachiopods, thumb-

Science / 61
Visitors are always interested in meteorites that have fallen on the United States;
here they study the 672-pound Wallapai Meteorite (left) found on the Wallapai
Reservation in Arizona and the 255-pound Oakly Meteorite found in Idaho. Below.
Drs. Richard E. Grant and G. Arthur Cooper (both on left) and Porter Kier, Director
of the National Museum of Natural History, examining presentation set of eight-
volume paleontological treatise. Joining them are Dr. Charles Gazin (center) and

Dr. Martin Buzas (far right). Photo by Vic Krantz.

nail-size seashells that have flourished for the entire half-billion-
year period in which there has been shelly life. Paleobiologists are
extremely interested in these animals because they illuminate im-
portant phases in the earth’s ecological, evolutionary, and geo-
logical record.

When Dr. Cooper joined the Smithsonian staff he began to en-
large the National Museum’s brachiopod holdings. In 1939 he
visited the Glass Mountains in Texas, a 100-square-mile area located
236 miles southeast of El Paso, bringing back nine small boxes of
rocks containing silicified brachiopod specimens. That winter at
the Museum he used hydrochloric acid to etch the brachiopods out
of the rock, an experiment that freed so many perfectly preserved
unknown species that he decided almost immediately to go back
to Texas for more silicified material.

World War II interrupted his collecting trips, but in the summer
of 1945 he returned to the Glass Mountains and sent back a mas-
sive five-ton rock shipment. He was systematically amassing a great
collection of animals preserved in the mountains and tracing their
evolutionary succession.

Dr. Grant joined Dr. Cooper as a co-researcher in 1957. By 1967,
when they decided to wind up the fieldwork part of the project,
the two scientists had quarried more than 144,000 pounds of rock.
From this material they had processed millions of specimens. The
hard physical labor was finished but the stratigraphy of the Glass
Mountain region had to be analyzed and nearly a million of the
finest specimens examined and photographed. As published, over a
five-year period in eight volumes, the work totals 3370 pages and
is the largest paleontological treatise ever issued by the Smith-
sonian.

In the field, collecting after dark, National Museum of Natural
History frog and toad specialists traditionally depend on their ears
to help locate and identify the animals they seek. To a knowledge-
able listener the call of each species is unique. On rare occasions,
however, the difference between two calls is too subtle to be picked
out; and sometimes a call is of such complex frequency or structure
that its unique character is not discernable to the human ear. But
now electronic equipment makes it possible to analyze a frog
call with great precision; a scientist is thus provided with an ana-

Science / 63
lytical tool for use in sorting out and identifying various species
and interpreting their behavior. The Museum has installed such
equipment in a sound analysis laboratory, where a variety of work-
ers are analyzing many kinds of animal sounds.

The Museum’s Dr. W. Ronald Heyer is using the laboratory in
a long-term survey of certain large and poorly defined Neotropical
frog populations. Before he grabs a male frog, he “collects” its
mating call on a cassette recorder. Back at the Museum, in addition
to examining the frog’s color, size, and other anatomical features,
he analyzes the recording of the frog’s voice with the laboratory’s
sonagraph, oscilloscope, strip chart recorder, and frequency ana-
lyzer. This equipment produces a visual picture of a frog’s call.
On paper, for example, the coarse whistle of an Amazonian frog
shows up as a pulsating pattern of squiggly lines. This can be read
as an exact picture of how the frog distributes the vibratory energy
of its voice over an interval of time. Some calls have a very com-
plicated harmonic structure, others are simply pure tones.

Many of the differences Dr. Heyer sees in each frog species’
“voice chart’ are based on subtle differences in muscles and carti-
lage deposits. Changes in laryngeal musculature produces a change
in the tension of the vocal cords which result in frequency differ-
ences. Presence of cartilage deposits on the vocal cords rhythmi-
cally open and close the vibrating cords producing a pulsatile call.
The result is the sound that the male broadcasts to the female. The
female, for her part, has a hearing apparatus that is tuned to pick
up this particular sound. It is as though the male and female are
communicating on a single channel.

Dr. Heyer’s sound work is only one of a number of ongoing re-
search projects in the Museum’s Division of Reptiles and Amphib-
ians. During the past year a new edition of the standard Introduc-
tion to Herpetology was published under the co-authorship of Dr.
George Zug. Dr. Zug also completed studies that measure the
jumping abilities of some 80 species of frogs, and correlate the
jumping behavior to sex, habitat, size, morphology, and taxonomic
groupings.

The analysis showed that ground burrowing frogs living in rela-
tively dry terrestrial habitats tend to be short jumpers. The best
jumpers measured were tree frogs, especially ones living in low
shrubs. Another group that tested well were semi-aquatic frogs.

64 / Smithsonian Year 1978
milion Qo —

Dr. W. Ronald Heyer using electronic equipment in the sound analysis laboratory
at the National Museum of Natural History. Dr. Heyer is conducting a long-term
survey of certain Neotropical frog populations. The call of each species is unique.
Not only is a frog’s voice recorded but a visual picture, as shown, of its call is
produced and may be read to tell how it distributes the vibratory energy of its voice
over an interval of time.
Dr. Zug discovered that smaller frogs succeeded in jumping farther,
proportionate to their size, than the larger frogs, but the small frogs
tended to tire out faster, perhaps because they were putting more
effort into their leaps.

All of the frogs collected and studied by Drs. Heyer and Zug are
added to the division’s collection, one of the largest in the United
States. The emphasis is on accepting materials that have been used
in research, thereby creating a voucher depository that scientists
can return to in the future to confirm earlier research work and
pursue new research directions.

Under the auspices of the Smithsonian Oceanographic Sorting
Center (sosc) a major expedition was launched in May and June
1978 to gather marine shore specimens in the central Philippines. It
is the beginning of a planned multi-year program. The area is
considered a key to understanding and resolving taxonomic prob-
lems of the Indo-Australian Region, the richest and most complex
marine biotic province in the world. Substantial support provided
by the Max and Victoria Dreyfus Foundation, Washington, D.C.,
made the first trip possible.

Philippine scientists are anxious for the Smithsonian to help
them identify the shore fauna and flora and assist them in estab-
lishing benchmark data by which environmental changes can be
measured. The research is expected to provide critically important
data for Philippine fisheries.

The Smithsonian team, headed by Dr. Herman A. Fehlmann,
included Smithsonian ichthyologists Drs. Victor G. Springer and
Leslie A. Knapp, invertebrate zoologist Gordon L. Hendler, marine
algologist Ernani G. Menez, and diving consultant and collector,
Joseph D. Libbey. The team collaborated with Philippine personnel
from the Bureau of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources; Silliman Uni-
versity Division of Research, Extension and Development; Uni-
versity of the Philippines in Diliman; San Carlos University in
Cebu; and the National Research Council of the Philippines.

Sampling of material took place at approximately 160 shore sta-
tions. Duplicates from these collections with all pertinent data are
being prepared for deposit in the Philippine National Museum.
Collections returned to the Smithsonian will be processed and
sorted at sosc and distributed to national and foreign scientists for
identification and study.

66 / Smithsonian Year 1978
National Zoological Park

For the National Zoological Park, the year 1978 was an exciting
one of growth, highlighted by new and expanded programs, in-
creased births and hatchings, and construction and renovation of
exhibits and facilities. By the close of this period, staff members
in all departments could look back with pride on progress made
toward increased responsiveness to the public and heightened pro-
fessionalism in the care and study of the animal collection.

EDUCATION AND GRAPHICS

One of the most intriguing developments at the Zoo was the open-
ing of Zoolab in the new Education-Administration Building. It has
proven popular with the hundreds of curious visitors who have
come in each week. Essentially a library of books and objects re-
lating to the animals in the Zoo, Zoolab provides a family-oriented
experience—before and after seeing the Zoo—in learning more
about the animals by exploring, touching, and reading. Items in-
clude birds’ nests, skeletons, feathers, antlers, and birds’ and rep-
tiles’ eggs.

Other interpretive materials are “learning boxes,” which focus
observations and suggest activities on topics such as Zoo diets and
animal coverings; an animal-information file; and ‘’Zoo activities,”
self-guided brochures that relate objects in Zoolab to live animals
out in the Park. Volunteers from the Friends of the National Zoo
(FONZ) are available to answer questions and help visitors make the
most of Zoolab’s resources. Grants from the Smithsonian Women’s
Committee, FoNz, and the Meyer Foundation help to make Zoolab
possible.

Another innovation in Zoo education was the pilot program for
the District of Columbia Schools, titled “Zoo Animals: A Closer
Look.” Sponsored in conjunction with ronz and developed in re-
sponse to teachers’ needs, the pilot program focused on nine fourth-
grade classes in Region II, a neighboring district of the public
school system, by complementing the fourth-grade science cur-
riculum. The program was designed to sharpen the children’s
curiosity by having them look closely at animals and to encourage

Science / 67
the development of such skills as observing, recording data, classi-
fying, contrasting, and making inferences.

After an introduction to the Zoo in their own classroom, the
participants visit the Zoo one morning a week for the next five
weeks. The ‘Zoo Express” bus, a government surplus bus reno-
vated and brightly decorated by the graphics department, trans-
ports classes to and from the Zoo. They visit the Reptile and Bird
Houses, several mammal exhibits, and the Monkey House, working
closely with their teacher in both the animal areas and the Zoo’s
new classrooms in the Education-Administration Building. The
classroom activities reinforce the children’s direct observation in
the Park. Since teachers’ active participation is necessary, Zoo staff
members conduct workshops prior to each course.

An evaluation of the program’s success was an outlined com-
ponent; based on this review, the pilot program was modified in
summer 1978. Changes included expansion for the 1978-1979
academic year to include sixteen city schools; accreditation of the
teachers’ workshop; and the development of new materials that are
finding additional use in other Zoo programs. Zoo educators hope
that this program will encourage children’s appreciation of the
Zoo and its animals.

During September 26 to 28, the National Zoo was host to a
conference of the International Association of Zoo Educators,
attended by people from as far away as Japan, Germany, and Scot-
land, as well as from the United States. The conference focused
on ways to reach a variety of audiences through different pro-
grams. Discussion topics included programs for the visually handi-
capped, high school students, and families.

The Zoo’s sparkling new library in the Education-Administra-
tion Building kept remarkable pace with an expanded collection
and increased requests from staff for volumes, periodicals, photo-
copies, bibliographies, and other materials. The library also ex-
tended its subscription services to Zoo staff in Venezuela and Sri
Lanka.

In the realm of graphics, the Zoo’s popular “sketch-ins” marked
a significant development in involvement with the public. The
Smithsonian participated in the World Wildlife Fund’s 1977 inter-
national celebration by focusing on the animal in art in a series
of exhibits at the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, Na-

68 / Smithsonian Year 1978
Clinging to a burnt tree, a bear-cub replica is unveiled at the dedication of Smokey
Bear Park at the National Zoological Park in September. From left are local radio
announcer Jackson Weaver; Dr. David Challinor, Assistant Secretary for Science;
John McGuire, Chief of the United States Forest Service; and an intrigued young

Visitor.

a SS fae

At the National Zoo’s Conservation and Research Center near Front Royal, Virginia,
much of the research concerns management for captive breeding of species endan-
gered as wild habitats diminish. Above. Grant’s Zebras graze in the open fields.
Below. Among habitats provided at the Center, these corn crib enclosures completed
in 1978 each houses a pair of Lesser Pandas.

tional Museum of Natural History, and National Museum of His-
tory and Technology. The Zoo’s contribution to this project was its
sketch-ins, on several Sunday afternoons during the fall, winter,
and spring. During each event, visitors were provided with draw-
ing paper, pencils, and gentle guidance throughout the Park from
ten local, volunteer animal artists whose work was on exhibit in
the lobby of the Education-Administration Building.

The many resulting sketches, created by enthusiastic novices and
not-such novices of all ages and walks of life, were collected and
mounted in an exhibit in the building’s lobby for months after-
ward, to be enjoyed by visitors and staff alike. Due to the enormous
success of these sketch-ins, more are planned for the future.

Other graphic accomplishments during the year included several
colorful murals. These strikingly vibrant displays have enhanced
the Park’s beauty. Judith Inglese, a ceramic muralist, completed a
work depicting the Tree of Life on one wall in the Education-
Administration Building’s lobby. Several months afterward, the
building’s outdoor entrance was enriched by her intricate mural
showing a procession of animals and people. The Zoo commis-
sioned a second muralist, Mame Cohalan, to create backdrop dis-
plays for the Reptile House’s lizard and python enclosures.

The Zoo’s comprehensive, graphically unified trail system, in-
stalled in 1977, was used and enjoyed by millions of visitors in its
first year.

THE ANIMAL COLLECTION

Among the Zoo’s 2300 animals, 1978 was a year of growth in
many ways. A dramatic increase was seen in the rate of births and
hatchings, especially among reptiles, golden marmosets, lesser
pandas, and even bald eagles, as a result of concerted breeding
programs. The Zoo’s bears were treated to both new and renovated
surroundings. Last, an internal organization of the animal manage-
ment department created improved efficiency in maintaining the
varied collection.

In April 1978, the Zoo’s bald eagle population increased by 50
percent—with the successful hatching of a chick. The second born
to the Zoo’s pair since 1973, the youngster grew rapidly under the
careful handrearing of keepers. By early fall, the bird was being
considered for use in future breeding endeavors of this endangered
species.

Science / 71
Ling-Ling, the female giant panda, once again came into estrus in
spring 1978; once again, encounters were run with Hsing-Hsing,
the male; and once again, the pandas proved playful but not
productive. In May Dr. Devra Kleiman, the Zoo’s reproduction
zoologist, and Mr. Jaren Horsley, the general curator, journeyed to
the People’s Republic of China—the pandas’ natural habitat—
along with other Smithsonian delegates and directors of five other
major American zoos. After consulting with several Chinese zoolo-
gists, the two concluded that the pandas were overweight and
recommended a restricted diet, in hopes that more normal physical
conditions would foster breeding behavior as in the wild.

Exhibited successfully for the first time in several years were
small Neotropical bats, many of which were born at the Zoo. These
species had already been studied for several years by the Zoo’s
zoological research staff. Many of the findings were then applied
to the bats’ maintenance in captivity.

In its breeding programs for certain species, the Zoo has begun
cooperating with other zoos in a new, experimental approach. In
such cases—including loans of lesser pandas to the Knoxville and
Bronx Zoos and golden marmosets to the Jersey Wildlife Trust in
England—the loan agreements are different than before. Each co-
operating zoo receives animals for exhibit and breeding purposes,
but they and their young remain the responsibility of the National
Zoo. Previously, ownership of half the young would be claimed by
the National Zoo and that of the other half by their native zoo.
The National Zoo’s responsibility, however, for the most part
emerges from a shared concurrence by all parties as to the breeding
strategy to be used once these young mature.

At the new Beaver Valley Exhibit, scheduled for completion in
early 1979, plans called for occupancy by late October 1978 of
two aquatic species—seals and sea lions—in large enclosures fea-
turing pools, rocks, and an elaborate filter system. In cooperation
with the National Marine Fisheries Service, the Zoo arranged to
obtain all of its sea lions from the rehabilitation program for
stranded and beached animals, conducted at Hanna-Barbera’s Ma-
rineland in Rancho Palos Verdes, California.

In the spring, the Zoo added a nutritionist to its curatorial staff,
the first at the doctoral level ever hired by a zoo. Hopes were that
the animals’ nutrition would benefit from this scientific approach,

72 / Smithsonian Year 1978

while resources would be more efficiently used to meet their dietary
needs.

Fiscal year 1978 also saw the institution of a keeper-leader sys-
tem, part of a restructuring of the animal department to improve its
management of the collection.

RESEARCH

The Zoo’s research staff pursued projects on a variety of subjects
at Rock Creek, at the Conservation and Research Center at Front
Royal, Virginia, and in such foreign locations as Venezuela, Pan-
ama, and Sri Lanka.

Research with the collection included an analysis of the behav-
ioral characteristics of monogamous mammals, with special atten-
tion devoted to canids and golden marmosets. Emphasis was placed
on developing methods to compare pair-bond strength, parental
care, territorial behaviors, and ontogeny.

Studies continued on the reproductive cycle of golden marmosets,
in conjunction with a breeding program for these severely en-
dangered animals. During the year, reproduction in the marmosets
was the most successful since the inception of the Zoo’s breeding
program.

Another project focused on the comparative social behavior of
three species of South American canids at Front Royal. One of
these species, the maned wolf, produced and reared its young—a
rare event in captivity.

Observations of various behaviors in the giant pandas continued,
with an emphasis on the time course of the male-female inter-
action during the female’s estrus. An important finding revealed
that prior to estrus, the female is quite active in initiating and
dominating interactions with the male; once she is in peak recep-
tivity, however, the opposite is seen.

Research was done on the reproduction of fruit-eating bats, in
collaboration with Dr. Charles Handley of the National Museum
of Natural History. The Zoo’s bat colony has flourished; it is
mainly captive-born with many second-generation offspring.

An intriguing series of studies were initiated on mother-young
relationships in hoofed mammals, with the premise that offspring
of some species—such as reindeer—are “followers,” spending
much time with their mothers, and that other young—such as

Science / 73
dorcas gazelle—are “hiders,” remaining in seclusion after birth
and accompanying their mothers only gradually as they develop.
Still other species, however, exhibit an intermediate condition be-
tween the two classic extremes. Data have been analyzed and ad-
ditional studies were in progress.

Singing behavior in hand-raised rock wrens was compared with
that in wild rock wrens. At the Conservation Center, research on
the eastern bluebird continued in an effort to develop an efficient
way to increase populations of this vulnerable species and to learn
more about the evolution of its social behavior.

Field projects overseas yielded great progress. In Venezuela,
studies on two species of primates produced major findings on
home-range size, troop composition, and feeding habits. Small-
mammal fauna were observed in two habitats, the llanos (plains)
and the rainforest.

Avian ecology was the focus of field research in both Panama
and Venezuela. Settlement patterns and behavior of song wrens,
which had earlier been reintroduced to Barro Colorado Island in
Panama, were studied to gain knowledge of reintroduction strate-
gies for maintaining tropical species, as forests continue to be cut
in the Neotropics.

Among other projects abroad were a study of the toque monkey
in Sri Lanka; a survey of the dwindling numbers of tigers on Suma-
tra, and the preparation of a key to the microscopic structure of
the leaves of woody plants on Barro Colorado Island.

In late October 1977 the Zoo convened a symposium at the Con-
servation and Research Center on the distribution, ecology, and
behavior of migrant birds in the Neotropics. Conservation recom-
mendations were forthcoming.

CONSERVATION

At the Front Royal Conservation Center, 1978 brought expansion
of all kinds. Animal-holding facilities were constructed; new
species, such as binturongs and lesser pandas, joined the collection;
and many offspring were born to the rare and endangered species
of birds and mammals that reside in this rural setting.

The Center’s role is to conserve exotic wildlife through captive
propagation and research. Toward this end, in 1978 the Zoo’s incu-
bation and bird-brooding program was established in full opera-

74 / Smithsonian Year 1978
tion. All eggs taken from birds both at Rock Creek and at the
Center are incubated in this modern, efficient facility. The rearing
yards associated with the program have proven successful; young
birds have flourished there in large numbers.

In its conservation and breeding efforts, the Zoo has entered an
exciting phase of cooperation with other zoos. Such interaction and
sharing have been deemed necessary if populations of endangered
animals, whose natural habitats are shrinking, are to be given a
fair chance to increase. Breeding loans, both from and to the Zoo,
increased with other institutions. The avenues of communication
widened as information about animal management and medicine
was exchanged.

Lively herds of Przewalski’s horses in Minnesota and Bactrian
camels, thriving in the green, hilly pastures of Virginia, were main-
tained in conjunction with the Minnesota Zoological Gardens. The
Bactrian camels, in return, presented the Zoo with one male and
two female young during this period.

In another cooperative venture, the Zoo has taken its first step
in a bird study and breeding program, financed in part by FONz,
and involving four American zoos (Washington, Philadelphia, New
York, and Denver) and the Djakarta Zoo in Indonesia. As a result,
the five zoos plan to exhibit and breed the same kinds of birds in
order to pool genetic resources and experiences.

Among the hoofed mammals, special mention should be made of
the Pére David’s deer. This species, extinct in its native China, lives
only in captivity. Its herd is growing measurably at the Center, to
the immense gratification of staff, who are also studying social
dynamics in this species.

Aside from such conservation and propagation efforts, staff at
the Center are also devoting their energies to research. Projects
include studies on courtship and breeding behavior of the Grand
Cayman Amazon parrot and on social behavior, reproduction, and
husbandry of the binturong.

In January and February, the director of the Center spent a
month in Nepal as a consultant to fieldworkers of the Smithsonian-
sponsored Nepal Tiger Ecology Project. Funded by the World
Wildlife Fund’s United States Appeal and the Smithsonian since
1973, the project has focused on the tiger’s social organization and
predator-prey relationship, using radiotelemetry in Chitwan Na-

Science / 75
tional Park. From its Sauraha base camp on the banks of the Rapti
River, fieldwork in the terai has been made possible by elephants,
land rovers, and more recently a United Nations Development Pro-
gram plane rented for radio-tracking tigers. University of Min-
nesota student David Smith, who had begun fieldwork in 1976,
succeeded with chief shikari Prem Bahadur Rai in radio-collaring
about ten tigers, seven of which later gave birth to young. Pros-
pects for radio-monitoring the movements and dispersal of these
offspring are particularly encouraging.

A major accomplishment at the Center was the construction of
twenty-one permanent yards for breeding pairs of cranes, occupied
in late September 1978. A large building was renovated to accom-
modate small carnivores and the bird brooding and incubation pro-
gram. These natural enemies were separated by a commissary,
utilities area, and storage space.

ANIMAL HEALTH

In 1978, the Zoo continued to make dramatic progress in its animal-
health programs. The incidence of avian tuberculosis, which had
earlier been a menace to the bird collection, was reduced by more
than 50 percent. Projections for the future indicated even further
eradication of the disease.

Another exciting development was a new kind of operation to
solve a puzzling medical problem in birds. Some of the Zoo’s sarus
cranes, which had resided in the Conservation Center’s yards since
early spring, began to exhibit drooping wings and other symptoms
of weakness. X-rays revealed the presence of metal in their giz-
zards, even though, prior to occupancy, staff had combed through
the yards with metal detectors and alert eyes. To remedy this
serious problem, the Zoo’s veterinary staff performed a complicated
operation to remove the metal from the bird’s gizzards, thereby
setting—as far as is known—a new precedent in the annals of
animal medicine.

On Christmas Eve 1977, a male orangutan, named Azy, was
born in the Great Ape House. Soon afterward, he was plagued by
various infections in the mouth and elbow, with accompanying
fevers and lassitude. Over the next few months, the Zoo’s animal
health team supervised round-the-clock care of Azy in the Hos-
pital-Research Building. Several operations were performed to try

76 / Smithsonian Year 1978
A Bengal tiger, caught and tranquilized in the wilds of Nepal, is fitted with a radio-
tracking collar that will allow researchers to follow its travels. This activity reflects
the Zoo’s participation in the Smithsonian’s Tiger Ecology Project that is studying
this rare animal. Below. An ailing golden marmoset rests in a temperature-controlled
incubator at the Zoo’s hospital. This facility holds critically ill and newborn animals
requiring intensive care. It can accommodate patients of a variety of weights and

to drain and disinfect the critical areas as they were detected. Num-
erous consultations with other professionals, including an ortho-
pedic surgeon, yielded new perspectives and approaches. Azy
finally responded to treatment by gaining weight; the fevers
abated; the infections cleared up. Some weeks later, to the joy and
pride of all of the Zoo’s staff, a much stronger and well-adjusted
infant was able to travel to the Albuquerque, New Mexico, Zoo
where he has taken up residence with a young female orangutan.
Hopes are, of course, that one day he will breed and sire new
orangutans to add to the rapidly shrinking numbers of this en-
dangered species.

Clinical research continued during the year, both helping to im-
prove the quality of medical treatment for the Zoo’s animals and
contributing new perspectives to the field of veterinary medicine.
Projects included the blood gas evaluation of animals under an-
esthesia and restraint; studies of appropriate antibiotic regimens
for a wide range of exotic species such as reptiles, birds, and hoof-
stock; and work with diagnostic laparoscopy, a method that is
finding expanded applications in the realm of animal health.

The year was also marked by the construction of a quarantine
facility to house newly arrived birds, small- to medium-sized mam-
mals, and hoofstock. Within the hoofstock area are two holding
stalls with connecting outside yards, and a padded recovery stall to
prevent injury to hoofstock emerging from general anesthesia. The
building is designed with a series of runways and chutes to facili-
tate the handling and medical treatment of hoofstock.

Activities of the Zoo’s pathology staff were facilitated by the
new Necropsy Building. It features an overhead track, a walk-in
refrigerator, laboratory and storage space, large tables, and a
pathologic incinerator. Since autopsies are performed on every
animal in the Park that dies, the ample space and modern equip-
ment of this new facility have certainly augmented the detailed
work requisite for pathologic analysis.

At the close of the year, plans were in full swing for a Sym-
posium on the Comparative Pathology of Zoo Animals, to be held
at the Zoo in early October 1978. The first conference on exotic-
animal pathology in North America, it will feature contributions
from pathologists throughout the United States, Canada, Europe,
and Australia. Proceedings will be published next year.

78 / Smithsonian Year 1978
CONSTRUCTION AND SERVICES

Construction at the Zoo over the past few years has created an
appealing new look for the Park; 1978 was no exception. After
eighteen months of work, the Old Bear Line was renovated, with
moats and rockwork, and the bears were reinstalled. Polar bears
and other bears settled into new surroundings during the year at
the Polar Bear and Grizzly Bear Exhibits. In September, Smokey
Bear Park, on the Old Bear Line, was completed and dedicated in
cooperation with the United States Forest Service. Smokey will now
have a larger, open-moated enclosure, with holding and retiring
dens and graphics that tell visitors his story and the continuing
plea for forest-fire prevention.

Construction of Beaver Valley, the Zoo’s largest exhibit, moved
ahead toward a late-fall 1978 occupancy. The original schedule
for completion was adjusted only slightly, despite delays caused
by a harsh winter and an unusually rainy August. The exhibit
represents an attempt to create a natural appearance, with land-
scaping and minimized architecture.

Aside from these and other animal-exhibit projects was the Gen-
eral Services Building and Parking Facility, the largest single con-
struction project in the Zoo’s redevelopment program. It was occu-
pied in February by staff of the Offices of Facilities Management,
Construction Management, and Graphics and Exhibits, and by the
commissary. Underground garages service the Zoo’s many vehicles;
a visitor parking lot on top, the first of four planned parking levels,
creates hundreds of new spaces for cars, and helped to alleviate the
tight parking problem of past seasons.

Of the various service units themselves, no small mention should
be made. These departments literally keep the Zoo running and
looking its best. In a year dubiously distinguished by a severe
winter and an oven-hot summer with frequent flash-floods and
heavy visitor crowds, the maintenance staff and police valiantly
smoothed the rough edges of operation.

A gratifying decline in vandalism also deserves commendation.
The Zoo’s police, in cooperation with a more aware general staff,
heightened their visibility throughout the Park, establishing a pres-
ence that discouraged potential troublemakers.

Science / 79
Above. A Grant zebra and her nursing colt form a vibrant pattern of stripes
against the foliage in their enclosure. The Zoo maintains a small group of
zebras at its Rock Creek site for exhibit purposes, but concentrates its zebra-
breeding program at the Conservation and Research Center at Front Royal,
Virginia.

Facing page. A mother giraffe tends to her still-wet young in its first hours of
life. At the National Zoo in 1978, three giraffes were born in one week, two
of them on the same day—a “‘first’” which treated the public to an exciting
show and gave Zoo researchers ample opportunity to observe mother-infant
interactions. After a drop of 6 feet to the ground, a new-born giraffe can
usually stand within 20 minutes and run with the adult herd several days
later. Giraffe breeding at the Zoo has, in fact, been so successful that there
is no more space for the surplus of youngsters; they are instead being placed
in other zoos. In addition, curators have had to control mating opportunities
by sometimes keeping the lone male, Michael-John, separate from the females.
FRIENDS OF THE NATIONAL ZOO

Fonz celebrated its twentieth birthday in 1978. As the Zoo’s non-
profit, support organization, it had grown immensely since its
early days in the Fifties. Thanks to its hard-working staff and
board of directors, its devoted membership of over 12,000, and
increasing revenue from the concessions and parking services it
operates, FONZ today has greatly expanded its programs and aid for
both the public and the Zoo. During the year, Fonz provided nearly
$250,000 to fund a wide variety of educational, research, and con-
servation activities of direct benefit to the Zoo and its visitors.

Perhaps the backbone of ronz’s strength has been its guides and
other volunteers. Of all ages and backgrounds, these people have
generously donated a valuable amount of time to Zoo activities,
such as school tours, animal-themed puppet shows, information
services for visitors, Zoolab, and animal-behavior watches. For
school tours alone, volunteers contributed over 10,000 hours for
the enrichment of more than 9,000 children.

FONZ provided crucial support in financing the acquisition of
Zoolab materials; the operation of the “Zoo Express” bus to trans-
port District of Columbia school children to and from the Park;
fellowships of an increased number of summer interns, who as-
sisted the Zoo’s professional staff in such areas as graphics, educa-
tion, animal health, and zoological research, both at the Zoo and
at the Conservation Center; and program expenses for the Zoo’s
migrant bird conference at the Center.

It was an exciting year, too, for educational programs and events
regularly offered to Fonz members. Opportunities expanded fo
classes of all ages, lectures, films, Zoo tours, regional field trips,
and excursions to China, India, eastern Europe, and the Galapagos
Islands. The yearly “ZooNights” and ‘Associates Nights” (in col-
laboration with the Smithsonian Resident Associates) proved en-
lightening and entertaining for the thousands of members who
attended.

In November 1977, ronz opened its Bookstore/Gallery in the
lobby of the Education-Administration Building, with an enticing
array of fine books, stationery, and artwork. ronz’s gift-shop op-
erations were enhanced by the use a 5400-square-foot merchandise
storage area in the new General Services Building. Also in that
central location are FoNz’s parking office and repair facility.

82 / Smithsonian Year 1978
In its twenty-first year of Zoo support, FoNz has shown great
progress from the past and bright promise for the future.

Detail of Fonz’s financial operations for calendar year 1977 (its
fiscal year) is shown below. In addition, a percentage of the restau-
rant and parking concessions are available directly to the Smith-
sonian for the benefit of the Zoo and are reported as income in the
Financial Report of the Smithsonian.

FRIENDS OF THE NATIONAL ZOO

Financial Report for the Period
January 1-December 31, 1977
[In $1,000s]

Net increase/

Net (decrease) to
revenue Expense fund balance
FUND BALANCE @ 1/1/77 ...... $550
SERVICES
MAPESDEISHIP ...)..605cs62s25-es05 $ 134 $ 106 $ 28
MMICANIIYG 22 cs i Se eck oes os 47 50 (3)
STIS ne ee 19 128 (109)
MOUMOCTVICCSIS 5 15 c. bieuse weiss ae 1,106 854 * 252
Matal serene rss: wo eile keen $1,306 $1,138 $168
FUND BALANCE @ 12/31/77 .... $718 *

-

Excludes services worth an estimated $96,329 contributed by volunteers to FONz.

? Includes gift shop, balloon shops, sightseeing trainings, parking service, and food
service.

* Includes $115,717 paid during this period to the Smithsonian under contractual

arrangement.

Net worth, including fixed assets, to be used for the benefit of educational and

scientific work of the National Zoological Park.

-

Science / 83
Office of Fellowships and Grants

In its role as a leader in the international scholarly community,
the Smithsonian maintains close scholarly ties with universities,
museums, and research institutions around the world. Among the
most important of these connections are those that have been de-
veloped in the areas of cooperative research through the fellow-
ship programs and the foreign currency program at the Smith-
sonian. In 1978 a new office was established to bring together the
major academic and research grant programs of the Institution
under one office. This new office, the Office of Fellowships and
Grants now includes all of the Institution’s visiting academic ap-
pointments and the Smithsonian Foreign Currency Program. The
Smithsonian Research Award Program will be included during the
next year.

VISITING ACADEMIC APPOINTMENTS

With policy direction from the Board of Fellowships and Grants,
the Office of Fellowships and Grants acts as the center through
which the Smithsonian’s research activities pursue their academic
objectives. Academic programs reflect the character of the research
and collection strengths of the Smithsonian. They deliberately
avoid duplication of university-based study and research, stressing
new perspectives on academic subjects and disciplines not com-
monly studied in the university. These programs range from off-
campus undergraduate studies to traditional postdoctoral research-
training fellowships. They are flexible, giving assistance to in-
dividuals who need to study at the Institution for a few days and
to persons who require the research resources of the Institution for
a year or more. Since 1965, when most of the formal institutional
award programs were established, the Institution has been the ap-
preciative host to more than a thousand visitors supported by one
of the fellowship award programs. These scholars now form an
international network of individuals who have studied at the
Smithsonian and in many cases continue their association by sub-
sequent visits, consultation, and frequently shared research efforts
with members of the Institution’s research staff.

Fellowships are awarded to postdoctoral scholars to spend six
months to one year participating in a program of advance research

84 / Smithsonian Year 1978
training. Predoctoral Fellows receive appointments for a similar
period to conduct research necessary to complete their disserta-
tions. During 1977-1978 sixty-one postdoctoral and predoctoral
fellows were appointed. Students who need to spend a shorter
period pursuing their research in consultation with the research
staff of the Smithsonian are offered ten-week appointments. Dur-
ing 1977-1978 twenty-eight such appointments were made. The
Office of Fellowships and Grants also conducts a Short-Term
Visitor Program, under which twenty-five visitors spent one week
to a month at the Institution during the past year.

The Office of Fellowship and Grants relies heavily on the support
and cooperation of the bureaus of the Smithsonian. Sometimes this
support is offered as direct stipend support. In the past year the
Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, the Smithsonian Ar-
chives, and the National Collection of Fine Arts have continued to
conduct specialized academic programs for undergraduate and
graduate students. In 1978 the Smithsonian was pleased to see the
Charles A. Lindbergh Chair of Aerospace History established with
Charles Gibbs-Smith, Keeper Emeritus of the Victoria and Albert
Museum as the first incumbent.

A system developed to maintain regular contact with past fellows
has resulted in an index that includes a listing of significant books
and articles resulting from fellows’ tenure at the Institution.

A total of 147 individuals participated in the Smithsonian’s aca-
demic studies programs during 1977-1978. A listing of individual
names and research projects may be found in Appendix 6.

SMITHSONIAN FOREIGN CURRENCY PROGRAM

The Smithsonian Foreign Currency Program (sFcp) awards grants
to support the research interests of American institutions, includ-
ing the Smithsonian, in those countries where the United States
holds blocked currencies derived largely from past sales of surplus
agricultural commodities under Public Law 480. The Program is
active in countries where the Treasury Department deems United
States holdings of these currencies to be in excess of normal federal
requirements, including in 1978 Burma, Egypt, Guinea, India, and
Pakistan. Research projects are continuing to conclusion under Pro-
gram support in the former excess-currency countries of Israel,
Morocco, Poland, Sri Lanka, Tunisia, and Yugoslavia.

Science / 85
The Smithsonian has received a fiscal year 1978 appropriation of
$4 million in “excess” currencies to support projects in the anthro-
pological sciences, systematic and environmental biology, astro-
physics and earth sciences, and museum professional fields. From
its inception in fiscal year 1966 through fiscal year 1978, the srcp
has awarded about $35 million in foreign currency grants to some
200 institutions in 37 states and the District of Columbia. Within
the framework of the Program, the Smithsonian made a fourth and
final contribution of $1 million in Egyptian pounds in support of
Egypt’s effort to save the submerged temples of Philae in Nubia.

Radiation Biology Laboratory

The thrust of the Radiation Biology Laboratory has been the in-
vestigation of light energy and its influences on the inhabitants of
the earth, the food chain, and the environment. Important biologi-
cal processes are identified and studied under controlled conditions
toward interpretation of the effects of photochemical reactions on
growth and development of biological systems, particularly in
plants. Continuing efforts have resulted in a systematic assessment
of the quality and quantity of solar energy reaching the earth’s
surface and increased knowledge of natural seasonal and clinical
changes.

Such fundamental and long-term studies provide information
that ultimately leads to improved methods of production, better
conservation, and understanding of environmental changes that
are wrought by man. As demonstrated by historical precedent,
the patient building of a store of knowledge about life processes
and their correlation with interacting environmental factors leads,
as well, to applications not now foreseeable of inestimable eco-
nomic and sociological benefit.

Consonant with its charter, the Radiation Biology Laboratory
has continued its research emphasis during the past year in several
major directions. These are: (1) regulatory processes of plants,
such as membrane synthesis and pigment synthesis; (2) environ-
mental processes and energy flow in biological systems, such as
photosynthesis and carbon metabolism; (3) the measurement of the

86 / Smithsonian Year 1978
amount, duration, and color quality of sunlight present in the en-
vironment; and (4) the age estimation of biological artifacts based
upon their radioactive carbon content.

REGULATORY BIOLOGY

In oxygen-evolving photosynthetic organisms light is absorbed and
the energy is converted to chemical energy. An understanding of
the mechanism of energy conversion in specific plants can po-
tentially lead to insights and solutions for directly converting solar
energy into chemical energy on a commercially feasible basis.

The light harvesting pigment antenna (phycobilisomes) are the
major light absorbers in red and blue-green algal cells. For the first
time, cell-free preparations of photosynthetically active membranes
in which phycobilisomes participate have been obtained in the
laboratory. The best results were obtained when cells of the blue-
green alga, Anabaena variabilis, were disrupted in a sucrose, phos-
phate, citrate mixture containing 1.5 percent serum albumin. Mem-
brane vesicles thus obtained had a phycobiliprotein to chlorophyll
ratio essentially identical to that of whole cells. The oxygen evolu-
tion rates were 250 micromoles of oxygen per milligram of chloro-
phyll per hour compared to rates of 450 for whole cells. Involve-
ment of the phycobiliproteins was demonstrated by excitation
energy transfer from phycocyanin (600 nanometer excitation) to
chlorophyll of photosystem II (695 nm emission). A decrease in the
695 nm emission was always accompanied by a decrease in the
guantum efficiency when phycobilisomes were uncoupled either
energetically and/or physically from the membranes.

Some of the proteins and polypeptides of chloroplast photo-
synthetic membranes (thylakoids) are made in the chloroplast on
chloroplast ribosomes and some are made in the cytoplasm on
cytoplasm ribosomes. In some organisms cytoplasmic ribosomes
are attached to the outer envelope of mitochondria. This observa-
tion had suggested that cytoplasm-synthesized mitochondria and
chloroplast polypeptides might enter these organelles by means of
ribosomes bound to their outer-envelopes in a variation of the
polypeptide secretory process. An ultrastructural study completed
this year showed that cytoplasm ribosomes are not bound to
chloroplasts or mitochondria in the alga Chlamydomonas rein-
hardtii, or in leaves of the flowering plant Phaseolus vulgaris.

Science / 87
Thus, it is concluded that binding of cytoplasm ribosomes to
organelle envelopes is not an obligate requirement for the transfer
of polypeptides from cytoplasm to organelle.

Fungi, such as Neurospora, which is an eucaryote (has a nucleus)
and is of intermediate complexity as compared to bacteria or
humans, are useful for studies of the regulation of enzyme bio-
synthesis. They grow rapidly, producing large amounts of material
for biochemical analysis, and are amenable to detailed genetic
analysis.

In addition, fungi such as Neurospora and Phycomyces synthe-
size carotenoid pigments and their oxygenated derivatives, the
xanthophylls, which are responsible for many of the yellow,
orange, and red colors observed in both plants and animals. Blue
light initiates or enhances the biosynthesis of these carotenoid
pigments. The biochemical pathway is complex with an unknown
number of enzymes required to convert the colorless five carbon
compound, isopentenyl pyrophosphate (1Pp) to the colorless forty-
carbon compound, phytoene. Phytoene, in turn, is a precursor of
the colored carotenoids, such as 8-carotene. This pigment is an
important carotenoid in the diet of animals since it is a precursor
of vitamin A which is required for vision.

The rate of formation of each intermediate compound in the
carotenoid biosynthetic pathway is regulated by enzymes. The
activity of one or more of these enzymes is regulated by an in vivo
blue light treatment. The enzyme system which catalyzes the
biosynthesis of phytoene from 1rp is being investigated in several
albino mutants of Neurospora This enzyme system is present in
albino-1 mutants, and as with wild type, blue light induces an in-
crease in the level of this phytoene synthesizing activity. Thus,
albino-1 strains are not blocked in the synthesis of phytoene, but
in the conversion of phytoene to the carotenoid pigments. On the
other hand, albino-2 and albino-3 mutants are blocked in the con-
version of 1pp to phytoene. By differential centrifugation, the en-
zyme system which catalyzes the conversion of 1PpP to phytoene can
be separated into two parts, a soluble and a particulate fraction.
We have evidence that the defect in phytoene biosynthesis is in
the particulate fraction of albino-2 and in the soluble fraction of
albino-3 It will be important to determine whether albino-2 or
albino-3 strains are regulatory mutants. Identification of regulatory

88 / Smithsonian Year 1978

mutants will be necessary in order to understand how light regu-
lates enzymes in the carotenoid biosynthetic pathway.

In flowering plants the herbicide Sandoz (norfluorozon) inhibits
the formation of not only the green chlorophyll pigments, but also
the formation of the yellow carotenoids. Cultures of Neurospora
and Phycomyces were grown on liquid media with the addition of
Sandoz to determine if the production of carotenoids in fungi
would also be inhibited, in the hope that an additional tool might
be developed to study the carotenoid pathway. Over a wide range
of concentrations (10-7 to 10°* molar) of Sandoz, there was no
effect on the biosynthesis of carotenoids for cultures grown in the
light. On wild-type Phycomyces there was a slight reduction of
growth and dry weight production only at the highest concentra-
tion, but on the wild-type Neurospora and on a red lycopene ac-
cumulating strain of Phycomyces, there was no effect on pigmenta-
tion or fresh and dry weight production. Apparently the effect of
the herbicide on higher plants is on the lipid membranes in which
carotenoids and chlorophylls occur or the fungi have the capacity
to metabolize the herbicide before it can affect the biosynthetic
pathway of carotenoid production.

The regulation by light of growth and development of flowering
plants is mediated through the pigment phytochrome. The mode of
action at the molecular level remains unknown. An approach to
determine the mode of action is to study the properties of purified
phytochrome isolated from other cellular components. One of these
properties is called dark reversion, in which the biologically active
form of the pigment is converted to the inactive form that would
normally be present prior to light exposure. Dark reversion occurs
in vivo in dicotyledonous plants, but does not occur in the grass
species from which the phytochrome molecule may be isolated.
However, once phytochrome is isolated from grasses, it reverts in
a similar manner to that from dicotyledonous plants. The dark
reversion behavior of monocotyledonous rye phytochrome in solu-
tion can be reversibly controlled by the addition of neutral salts.
Dissociating salts lead to a greatly reduced rate of reversion, while
aggregating salts lead to rapid rates of reversion that are compar-
able to those observed in dicotyledonous tissues. It is concluded
that the immediate molecular environment surrounding the phyto-
chrome molecule, such as an interaction with cell membranes,

Science / 89
might explain the differences between the in vivo and in vitro dark
reversion rates.

The induction of flowering is also a photomorphogenic response
mediated by phytochrome. However, because plants which are
induced to flower are exposed to light which is photosynthetically
active, it is difficult to determine if only the phytochrome system is
operating, or if energy from photosynthesis is also required. One
way to approach this problem is to determine if flowering can occur
in the absence of chlorophyll. Duck weed plants (Lemna) grown
in the presence of the herbicide Sandoz do not synthesize the
yellow carotenoid pigments or the green chlorophylls. Under con-
ditions of low intensity periodic red light, the flowering percentage
of Sandoz-treated plants is greater than in controls. Thus it is con-
cluded that the phytochrome system is operating normally and that
flowering can be obtained in plants that are virtually devoid of any
carotenoids or chlorophyll and have no photosynthetic capability.

ENVIRONMENTAL BIOLOGY

The phytochrome molecule acts as the receptor molecule for the
control of reproductive development in plants. When light signals
are received from the environment, either inhibition or promotion
occurs that is dependent upon both the species of plant and the
time in the developmental cycle during which the signal is received.
The nature of the environmental light signal remains unclear. How-
ever, it has been postulated that changes in the relative amounts of
red and far-red energy in sunlight may play a role. Such changes
have been documented at the Radiation Biology Laboratory and
show that, while the levels remain about the same during most of
the day, the relative amount of far-red can increase by a factor of
about 2 at twilight.

Experiments with barley, a plant that requires long day lengths
to flower, have demonstrated that, when far-red light is added dur-
ing 12-hour photoperiods, the plants flower as rapidly as those in
continuous light. It has also been shown that the ability of the
plant to respond to this far-red light is regulated by an endogenous
rhythm in the plant itself. This has led to the hypothesis that the
flowering of barley in nature is enhanced by twilight changes in the
relative amount of far-red light, but only when such changes occur
during periods when the plant itself is capable of perceiving them.

90 / Smithsonian Year 1978

a
Using the Sandoz method that was developed for the direct meas-
urement of phytochrome in light-grown plants, it has been estab-
lished that, while light results in the destruction of 98 percent of
the phytochrome within 36 hours, the remaining 2 percent is stable
for at least 6 days in constant light. When returned to darkness,
this phytochrome behaves in the same manner as that found for
plants grown in complete darkness and given only a brief irradia-
tion. The kinetics have led to the conclusion that the low but stable
phytochrome results from a balance between destruction and new
synthesis of the molecule. This result is unlike the situation de-
scribed for cauliflower, the only other light-grown plant that has
been investigated previously.

Photosynthetic utilization of incident light energy provides the
earth with renewable fuels. Previous work with flashing light, as
early as 1905, indicated greater light energy utilization for flashing
light than with continuous light. Using differential carbon dioxide
and long-term growth measurements, flashing light is not more effi-
cient than continuous light of equal energy in the photosynthetic
utilization of light energy. However, previous findings which have
been confirmed show that flashing light of about one minute dura-
tion followed by one minute dark intervals produced minimal
growth.

Supplemental lighting with flashing light produces greater vege-
tative growth. This result can be attributed to increased light pene-
tration through the plants upper leaves to the lower leaves. The
amount of energy given over a specified time interval will penetrate
more layers of leaves if that same energy is given in half the time.
Thus, the pulses are more intense, and penetrate farther resulting in
increased light absorption.

Other studies, using equivalent quanta of colored and white light,
have shown that narrow band red and blue light produces plants
equivalent in maturity and size. However, the plants grown under
red light exhibit a lack of greening after the third week of growth.

There is considerable evidence to show that salt marsh ecosys-
tems along the Atlantic coastline and the Chesapeake Bay are among
the highest producers of biomass known. Since these marshes are
tidal, it has been assumed that a large fraction of the production of
the biomass by the marshes would be exported to adjacent estua-
rine waters where it could be consumed by the abundant marine

Science / 91
animal populations. Evidence in support of this hypothesis has been
primarily indirect and inconclusive. Recent work has suggested that
salt marshes are not as important to the energy budget of estuaries
as had once been thought, and some have even concluded that the
marshes are a consumer, rather than a source, for nutrients and
reduced carbon.

Two principal mechanisms of carbon exchange by plant commu-
nities, photosynthesis and respiration, have been studied in order to
determine what fraction of the carbon assimilated and used for pro-
duction of biomass is metabolized in place by the community.
Studies of the seasonal changes in community biomass production
cannot reveal whether a loss of biomass by the plant community is
due to export or to metabolism. Measurements of gas exchange
provide direct data on the carbon balance.

During previous field seasons the photosynthetic efficiency of salt
marsh communities has been determined. Comparing these data
with data on seasonal trends in solar radiation incident on the
marsh, the seasonal assimilation of carbon by the two most com-
mon plant communities along the Chesapeake Bay has been esti-
mated. Sufficient carbon is assimilated to produce approximately
two kilograms of dry matter per year per square meter of marsh
surface. During the current year the night time community respira-
tion has been monitored. Respiration does not account for a loss of
more than half of the total carbon dioxide assimilated by photosyn-
thesis. This means that approximately a kilogram of dry matter
from each square meter of salt marsh is available for export from
the salt marsh to the estuary. There appears to be little likelihood
that a significant fraction of this biomass could be stored within the
soil beneath the community, and the conclusion is reached that the
salt marshes export a significant amount of carbon to the nearby
estuaries.

In the marsh communities the photosynthetic efficiency is highest
during the earliest part of the season and declines linearly there-
after. Each green leaf within the community seems to have maxi-
mum capacity to convert solar radiation to biomass in early May,
shortly after the first leaves appear, but this capacity declines stead-
ily even though new green leaves are continually produced. It has
been postulated that this effect may be due to crowding of leaves
within the canopy or, alternatively, to change within each individ-

92 / Smithsonian Year 1978
ual leaf in response to some stress factor within the environment.
It has been found that altering the orientation of the leaves scarcely
affects the interception of light, but it drastically affects photosyn-
thesis. It is concluded that crowding within the canopy explains in
part the observed seasonal decline in photosynthesis and is not cor-
related with altered interception of light.

The spectral quality of daylight is being measured by an integrat-
ing spectroradiometer beneath a forest canopy in the rain forest on
Barro Colorado Island in the Panama Canal Zone. The instrument
is mounted with automatic drive on a monorail 65 feet in length to
obtain representative monitoring of shade and sunfleck areas for
light between 400 nm and 800 nm in 50 nm bandwidths at specific
time intervals throughout the day.

A similar unit, but not an integrating type, has been in operation
on the roof of the laboratory in Rockville. The data collected by
this instrument has been correlated with 100 nm bandwidth data
that has been collected by Eppley pyranometers. The correlation is
excellent except in the 750 to 800 nm band, which requires special
calibration techniques because of variation of water vapor in the air.

A new digital integrating scanning radiometer has been installed
at NASA Langley in Virginia, to monitor ultraviolet-B radiation. This
first field test of the new unit gives a 90 percent data recovery rate.
The data not accounted for are a result of the peculiar electrical en-
vironment in which the equipment has to operate, but the problem
has been solved with the installation of additional voltage-regulat-
ing equipment and should result in practically a 100 percent data
acquisition.

The pyranometer data (100 nm bands) show a definite trend in
the ultraviolet energy at Rockville and Panama. Running seven-day
averages were used so that short-term fluctuations would be mini-
mized. The amount of ultraviolet decreases from 1973 to 1976 at
Panama and Rockville, but Barrow does not show any trend but
remains constant over the whole period. This trend at the two sta-
tions is not localized and is not due to aerosol or weather effects.
The exact nature is as yet not understood.

CARBON DATING LABORATORY

Investigation of the recent geological and climatic history of the
Chesapeake Bay continues. Similar studies are under way along the

Science / 93
Pleistocene ice-margin of southern New York state, in interior and
coastal Maine, and in southern Labrador.

A major thrust of laboratory research is on the early occupations
of the Americas. Cultural, geological, and climatic chronologies are
being developed for Early Man sites in Colorado, Texas, Wyoming,
Oregon, and Alaska, some of them in association with now-extinct
mammals.

Recently completed studies of the relative reliability of the colla-
gen and apatite fractions of bone or dateable materials may help
document a Yukon Territory archeological site, possibly 20,000
years old. Additionally, a comparative dating program is under way
on a wide variety of sample materials from well-preserved sites in
the High-Arctic in order to assess the relative validity of exotic
samples.

Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory

In astronomy, perhaps more than in any other field of science, the
direction of research and the advance of knowledge often directly
result from the development of new instrumentation. Indeed, over
the centuries since Galileo first looked at the heavens through a
crude telescope, each new observing tool has revealed a host of
hitherto unknown objects and unimagined physical processes, with
each contributing to humankind’s better understanding of cosmic
evolution.

In 1978 particularly, the new astronomical instruments devel-
oped and used by Smithsonian astronomers produced many excit-
ing new discoveries. For example, a team of Smithsonian and Har-
vard scientists operating an experiment aboard the International
Ultraviolet Explorer satellite detected what appear to be black holes
at the center of globular clusters of stars, thus confirming earlier
observations by other Smithsonian researchers. In a related discov-
ery, a scientist using a telescope in Chile in conjunction with col-
leagues using the new SAS-3 x-ray satellite confirmed that the
“cosmic burster’” emitting sudden and intense flares of x-rays from
the heart of a star cluster was the same object seen to brighten op-
tically. Scores of other x-ray objects, equally strange and energetic,

94 / Smithsonian Year 1978
GEDANI.
Y Se ore Cl ASG S644.

4

Curfac Meiicliran 23Wau Ps IG iioaean

= a
Ke 4 i ¢ H
2s = A ,
we. ee ¢ a ;
=. * 2p ’ = ip ‘ oe
3 os ‘ = \ €é ® = 4
ib zs . a | 3 a _ 4a tL
P 8 ee 8 SS a
E 3 en = >
Eel. tea . t Si —— ” i¢
e eh ts e P 2 F =
e ’ a ars & e @ é ] |
6 €
e a @ ¢ @ d
¢ c }
_ s & ¢ 5 d
32 ® ¢ r
MAI. a3 a 7
Je >
Dita ns Bags, 1s 1
pee 25. m.70. 47.
a. 16 (SSimTo s:;
629 25mtT Si.
ree 18.m.75 17.
A On ns. 8. 7 Z.m.b9 0. B cad cad
Jo. 8 25.m.7o 38.
MN. 8 49.m.7 83.
Cee Mea eed Man se
35.7 ¢5.m.07 44.
1*. 7 S4.m.67 25.
18. 7 $3.m.66 37.
16.56 46.m.65 #0
Pecc.
SO Mcie, Sculaest

A seventeenth-century recording of sunspots carried across the
solar rotation was among the historical data used in the Langley-A

“

sun’s disk by
bbot Research

Program study of the connection between solar rotation and sunspot activity.
were recorded and mapped by Smithsonian-Massachusetts Institute
of Technology-designed instruments aboard the HEAO—1 satellite.

Smithsonian scientists were also leaders in the development of
instrumentation designed to enhance and improve the observational
capability of conventional ground-based telescopes. New electronic
devices using silicon diode arrays were applied to telescopes at
Mount Hopkins, thus marking a significant step toward the way
astronomical observations will be made in the future.

And, as the year ended, Smithsonian scientists neared comple-
tion of two new instruments—the mmrT and HEAO-8 satellite—that
promise to revolutionize astronomy, and perhaps change the way
we perceive the universe.

The obvious leadership of the Smithsonian Astrophysical Ob-
servatory (SAO) in modern astronomy results in part from a broad,
diversified approach to research that encompasses many subdisci-
plines. Since 1973, sao has been joined with the Harvard College
Observatory (Hco) under a single director as the Center for Astro-
physics headquartered at Cambridge, Massachusetts. This joint ven-
ture brings together more than 140 scientists and 350 supporting
staff members both in Cambridge and at field stations around the
world. Such a large and unusual assembly of scientific and techni-
cal experts both inspires creation of new research tools and encour-
ages rapid and effective responses to promising avenues of investi-
gation. Research efforts of the Center are grouped roughly by spe-
cialties in several divisions, each headed by an associate director.

Harvard members are supported by University funds and by con-
tracts and grants from agencies such as the National Aeronautics
and Space Administration, the United States Air Force, the Na-
tional Science Foundation, and the United States Department of
Commerce. Smithsonian members are supported by federal appro-
priations and private funds from the Institution and by contracts
and grants from government agencies, such as the National Aero-
nautics and Space Administration, the Office of Naval Research, the
United States Department of Energy, and the Air Force Geophysics
Laboratory.

ATOMIC AND MOLECULAR PHYSICS

The research program of the Atomic and Molecular Physics Divi-
sion is directed to the study and determination of processes and

96 / Smithsonian Year 1978
parameters in atomic and molecular physics that are important to
astrophysics. The studies are often in parallel with or in support
of the interpretation of observational data. For example, the C-X
band (124 nm) of H:O has not been detected in diffuse interstellar
clouds. This null result is consistent with the absorption predicted
from model calculation column densities and from gf-value meas-
urements.

On the theoretical side, the relativistic random phase approxima-
tion has been used to calculate excitation energies and oscillator
strengths of the Mg isoelectronic sequence needed for determining
solar abundances and temperatures. Intercombination oscillator
strengths necessary for solar plasma diagnostics have also been cal-
culated. And, as a final example, observational astronomers have
searched for, but not found, the molecule NaH in interstellar clouds.
Theoretical astrophysics have shown that there is no gas phase
mechanism for producing this molecule, and that the photodestruc-
tion rate of NaH is large.

An ion-beam facility recently constructed in the laboratory has
measured, among others, the absolute cross sections near threshold
for electron excitation of multiply charged ions, e.g., Be-like and
Li-like. These cross sections have not been determined experimen-
tally and are required solar plasma parameters for analysis of EUV
and xuv intensities A new ion-beam facility program to measure
electron excitation and dielectronic recombination of C** has com-
menced.

Oscillator strength data for Co I have been analyzed by use of
the vacuum Mach-Zehnder interferometer. Preliminary oscillator
strength data have also been produced for Si I in the ultraviolet
spectral region.

Research in molecular structure, properties, oscillator strengths,
and photo-dissociation channels and cross sections continues. Stud-
ies of the following astrophysically interesting systems CO, C2,
NaH, and LiH are finished. Work continues on MgH and CH”. In
the area of electronic continuum processes, calculations were com-
pleted of photoionization cross sections from ground and metasta-
ble Oz. The calculation of widths of autoionizing states of Hz is in
progress.

The 6.6-meter vacuum spectrograph with extremely high resolu-
tion was used to study photopredissociation processes in N2, which

Science / 97
in the 800-1000 A region are important sources of N*D in the
upper atmosphere. Rotational analyses of the absorption bands of
the «fist X's) Rydberg bands of N» are in progress and ac-
count is taken of the extensive homogeneous perturbations that
occur. Some abnormal intensity distributions previously observed
in emission-spectra seem to result from the effects of perturbations
rather than predissociations. The spectrograph has also been
equipped for photoelectric measurement of vacuum ultraviolet ab-
sorption cross sections of stratospherically significant molecules
(nitric oxide, oxygen, sulphur dioxide, and hydrogen chloride).

The bound-bound emission spectrum (1073-1083 A) of the Ar»
excimer, which is capable of vacuum ultraviolet laser action, is
being analyzed rotationally to obtain spectroscopic constants of the
ground and lowest excited electronic state.

In solar-terrestrial physics, studies of the extreme ultraviolet
solar corona in the acceleration region of the solar wind are pur-
sued with the Lyman alpha coronagraph program. Data reduction
and analysis of solar ultraviolet spectra with emphasis on the inter-
action with the Earth’s stratosphere have resulted in several publi-
cations, including a solar atlas.

Theoretical and experimental problems that involve other mem-
bers of the Division include the determination of transition prob-
abilities in the Z-expansion approximation; the photodestruction of
neutral free radicals; and the measurement of absolute oscillator
strengths of neutral and singly ionized atoms and of neutral mole-
cules and radicals. In addition, fundamental theoretical quantum
mechanical studies of basic atomic and molecular processes are in
progress. Applications of atomic and molecular data to problems in
planetary atmospheres and astrophysics are being investigated.

GEOASTRONOMY

Research in the Geoastronomy Division is concentrated in geophys-
ics, upper atmospheric research, and relativity, as well as the devel-
opment of supporting hardware and software systems. Ongoing
activities include the study of Earth dynamics and composition
from satellite measurements; the development of models to describe
temperature and density variations in the atmosphere; the analysis
of data from a spacecraft-borne gravitational redshift experiment;
the development of state-of-the-art hydrogen masers; and the study

98 / Smithsonian Year 1978
of a space-borne tether system for payload manipulation and in situ
measurements of gravity-field gradients and electrodynamics.

The major activities in geophysics fell into three areas: First, a
global set of area mean geoid heights derived from the Geos—3
satellite-to-sea-surface radar altimeter was compiled. This set of
geoid heights was then combined with other satellite and terrestrial
gravimetry data to obtain the first comprehensive global model of
the Earth’s gravity field based on these three types of data. This
model contains over 1300 coefficients representing features in the
geopotential with wavelengths longer than 500 kilometers with an
accuracy in geoid height of better than 2 meters. Second, detailed
geoid maps have been prepared that provide resolution of 20 kilo-
meters and accuracy of 20 centimeters from the Geos-—3 altimetry
data. These maps will be used to model flow in the upper mantle
and to aid the investigation of subduction zones, where the effects
of negative buoyancy and variable viscosity are pronounced. Finally,
efforts are under way to analyze laser tracking data on the Lageos
satellite. The satellite was conceived and developed by sao to study
the long-term tectonic changes in the Earth. Efforts this year have
concentrated on obtaining a precise ephemeris. Initial results indi-
cate anomalous changes in the satellite orbit correlated with seismic
activity. The most likely explanation is large far field mass displace-
ments resulting from aseismic slip.

Neutral composition data from a mass spectrometer on the S3-1
satellite were used to determine the changes in the temperature
structure of the Earth’s lower thermosphere that occur during times
of geomagnetic disturbance. This was an important step in the de-
velopment of a model that will accurately describe the atmospheric
variations associated with geomagnetic disturbances in the critical
region where the variations originate. A preliminary model of the
geomagnetic variations in the lower thermosphere was devised and
will be refined using the more comprehensive data that are now
available from nasa’s Atmosphere Explorer-C satellite.

Analysis of data from the gravitational redshift experiment con-
tinued in the program to test the equivalence principle of Einstein’s
Theory of General Relativity. Heavy emphasis continues to be
placed on the trajectory solution from the doppler tracking data;
tracking data from one station are now being seriously questioned.
The Jet Propulsion Laboratory (srt) is providing an independent

Science / 99
evaluation and determination of the trajectory solution. The pres-
ent level of error in the trajectory limits the accuracy of the test of
the equivalence principle to 200 parts per million.

Studies of the theoretical basis for oscillator stability as applied
to the thermal noise processes in the hydrogen masers have led to
the conclusion that the newest masers operate at the limit of stabil-
ity and that further improvement in stability is possible by low-
temperature operation. A hydrogen maser has been constructed here
that operates successfully at 77°K; and lower temperature opera-
tion is expected in the future. If a maser can be operated below
10°K, a substantial improvement in stability should be achievable.
The opportunity to use superconducting techniques could offer
great promise in this endeavor.

Three masers and spare equipment have been supplied to the Jet
Propulsion Laboratories to serve in their Deep Space Tracking Net-
work. These masers were previously used in the ground stations of
the redshift experiment and have been refurbished, modified, and
extensively tested for use by jpt.

During the last year, the sao laser tracking network and its over-
seas cooperating stations provided routine tracking data to support
ongoing programs in geodesy and geophysics. Precision orbital
tracking to support the ocean-surface altimeter experiment aboard
the Geos—3 and Seasat satellites and the Earth dynamics measure-
ments on the laser satellites were top priority. The network also
provided intensive laser tracking coverage of several low-orbit
satellites for the improvement of gravity-field models and the study
of Earth and ocean tides. Special attention was given to the devel-
opment of laser pulse choppers to improve range accuracy to 10
centimeters and to the implementation of NTs receivers to improve
network timing to an accuracy of 1-2 microseconds.

HIGH ENERG YAS TROPHY SICS

The principal activities of the High Energy Astrophysics Division
are grouped in three main areas: analysis of data obtained in cur-
rent or previous missions; planning and development of instrumen-
tation for future space missions for orbiting observatories; and con-
tinuing research on energetic phenomena in the universe.

During the past year the Division has gathered a growing amount
of extremely interesting and exciting data on galactic and extra-

100 / Smithsonian Year 1978

(4
Dr. Fred L. Whipple, former Director of the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observa-
tory, prepares to discuss the origins and evolution of the Multiple Mirror Tele-
scope project for part of a joint Smithsonian-University of Arizona film about
the mmt. Below. One of the six 76-inch mirrors making up the heart of the
Multiple Mirror Telescope is lowered into place as the revolutionary telescope
neared completion of its construction phases in February 1978 at Mount Hopkins,
Arizona.

(i

galactic x-ray sources. New discoveries from instruments on SAS—3
(in collaboration with investigators from the Massachusetts Insti-
tute of Technology) and the High Energy Astronomy Observatory
(uEAO-1) (currently in orbit), from ground-based telescopes, and
even from analysis of the uHuRU satellite data have occurred al-
most on a weekly basis.

Results from sas—3 observations include the discovery of the
nuclei of several Seyfert galaxies including III Zw 2, a cD galaxy in
the rich cluster of galaxies Abell 1019, and the narrow line galaxy
Anon 0945-30, a member of a class of galaxies that may produce a
significant contribution to the x-ray background. Data returned by
the scanning modulation collimator experiment on HEAO—1 have
provided the precise positions of 70 sources, which comprise 15
new identifications, confirmation of about 30 suggested identifica-
tions, and new angular sizes for about 10 clusters of galaxies.
HEAO—1 data have also been used in the observation of superclusters
and studies of individual cluster emission to determine the exist-
ence of large x-ray halos.

Observations made at Cerro Tololo Inter-American Observatory
have led to the discovery of the optical counterpart of a transient
x-ray source. In addition, a search for optical pulsations from an
x-ray pulsar was carried out and it was found that two more x-ray
sources may be identified with globular clusters. Most recently,
ground-based observing at Cerro Tololo has led to the discovery of
the optical counterparts of two more x-ray sources (one of which is
a burst source) as well as optical bursts from an x-ray burst source.

In the area of new technology, Division members have concen-
trated their efforts on the preparations for the next major mission
in x-ray astronomy: The flight of HEAo—s, scheduled for November
1978. The neao-8 is the first high-resolution x-ray space telescope
capable of focusing images of astronomical objects. Instruments
now being developed by the group include high sensitivity cathodes
for x-ray imaging tools, high-speed visible light image converters,
improved x-ray spectrometers for use in fusion studies and general
x-ray astronomy applications, and improved imaging proportional
counters. Several of these activities are aimed at the preparation of
focal plane instrumentation suitable for future missions, such as
the 1.2-meter telescope and the large-area modular array.

Rocket experiments devoted to the test of prototype HEAO-B in-

102 / Smithsonian Year 1978
struments (imaging proportional counter and the high resolution
imaging detector), as well as to the study of extended x-ray sources
(Coma), have been developed and flown during the year. Of partic-
ular scientific significance have been the flights of the low resolu-
tion duo-dimensional mirror and imaging proportional counter for
the study of clusters. And, of great importance for the HEAO—B mis-
sion were the inflight determinations of background rates for the
high resolution imaging detector.

Continuing research on energetic phenomena was considerably
aided by the availability of extensive uHuRU data. For example,
analyses of uHuRU data led to computation of the Point Summation
Technique for use on sources in the Fourth UHURU Catalog. This
work, in turn, led to the discovery of x-ray halos around clusters,
implying large masses of hot gas in clusters.

Analyses of data provided by the Astronomical Netherlands
Satellite have also continued.

OPTICAL AND INFRARED ASTRONOMY

The Optical and Infrared Division is involved in programs of extra-
galactic astronomy, stellar astronomy, and space astronomy, as well
as the development of new facilities and instrumentation. Two fa-
cilities, the Multiple Mirror Telescope (mmr) at Mount Hopkins,
Arizona, and the infrared telescope for Spacelab II, are well under
way.

The mrt, a joint venture of sao and the University of Arizona
will provide high-quality observational capability equivalent to that
of a 175-inch telescope and is scheduled to begin astronomical ob-
servations in fiscal year 1979. A program of hardware development,
intended to supply state-of-the-art instruments for it, has culmi-
nated in the development of two new instruments: the Z-machine
(a moderate resolution spectrometer) and the CCD camera. The
Z-machine has already been utilized in a redshift survey of nearby
bright galaxies, which, ultimately, will contribute greatly to the un-
derstanding of the overall distribution of matter in the universe and
of fluctuations and turbulence at the time galaxies were forming.
Tests performed after the interfacing of the CCD camera system
with the 24- and 60-inch telescopes indicate that the system can
usefully detect brightest cluster galaxies to a redshift of at least
z= 0.5. Data were obtained to look for halos around edge-on gal-

Science / 103
axies, and a program of surface photometry of interacting galaxies
was begun. Two other instruments, a Michelson-type far-infrared
spectrometer and an InSb detector array, are in various stages of
development.

The Division’s programs in extragalactic astronomy also include
a galaxy radial velocity survey for the ~1100 galaxies brighter
than 14th magnitude in the north galactic cap and a survey of
optical-infrared colors of very blue and interacting galaxies. A tech-
nique for measurement of the Hubble Constant by use of an infra-
red magnitude, 21-cm-width correlation has been uncovered, while
other members of the Division have used grid photography to
measure the distribution of light in the outer regions of NGC 4565
down to 1/3000 of the night sky at Agassiz Station. An investiga-
tion of cD galaxies in poor clusters shows that the main bodies of
these galaxies are similar in absolute magnitude and color to the
brightest ellipticals in rich clusters, such as M87.

The infrared telescope, a small, helium-cooled infrared telescope
experiment for the Spacelab 2 mission of the Space Shuttle, is due
to be launched in 1981. The definition phase study, carried out by
an SAO group, was completed in April 1978; the experiment will be
performed in cooperation with the University of Arizona, NASA
Marshall Space Flight Center, and nasa Ames Research Center.

The May 1978 flight of the 102-cm balloon-borne far-infrared
telescope, which carries the University of Palermo four-color pho-
tometer, was terminated by a balloon failure during ascent. The
flight package was returned safely and is in operating condition.
Two major items had been added to the payload this year: a video
inertial pointing system (Nasa Ames Research Center) and a silicon
intensified television camera as a finder telescope.

Reduction of data from previous flights continues. Observations
of the outer planets have confirmed the absence of an internal heat
source for Uranus and the presence of one for Neptune, and the
first far-infrared observations of an asteroid, Ceres, were made. A
new compact far-infrared and CO source was discovered, which
probably represents an early stage of stellar evolution. A new model
of the H II region M17 was developed by comparison of far-
infrared and radio maps.

Infrared observations of the most luminous quasar were made at
Cerro Tololo Inter-American Observatory. In a search for candidate

104 / Smithsonian Year 1978
infrared identifications, about 80 not-visible objects were found
ranging down to K= +49, but none could be identified with an
x-ray source; the brightest were identified as luminous late-type
stars and include four newly discovered supergiants.

A member of the Division is principal investigator for an obser-
vation program on the International Ultraviolet Explorer (1ue) satel-
lite, which is observing spectroscopically x-ray sources, globular
clusters, chromospheres, and a range of late-type stars. So far, data
returned by tue have revealed conditions in the centers of globular
clusters that could definitely test the theory that black holes reside
there.

Early type stellar winds and a mechanism to produce coronal gas
in such winds are the subjects of new research. The Harvard Plate
Collection has been used in a study of the cool emission-line
dwarfs; long-period variability that may be analogous to solar ac-
tivity and cycles has been revealed.

Interstellar line research has resulted in the first optical detection
of molecular carbon toward £ Oph. Analysis of some Fe VII and
Fe X interstellar emission-line searches has given upper limits on
the emission measure of the ionized gas in the 10°-10° K range in
the supernova remnants W28 and Vela.

PLANETARY SCIENCES

The Division carries out a wide variety of solar system investiga-
tions that exclude the sun and concentrate on lunar studies, comets,
and asteroids. Of particular importance is research related to the
origin of the solar system.

The Central Bureau for Astronomical Telegrams continues to be
located at the Center for Astrophysics under the directorship of a
Division member. Some 150 Circulars were issued during the year.
In addition, the same member of the Division assumed on July 1,
1978, the directorship of the IAU Minor Planet Center and the
responsibility for issuing the Minor Planet Circulars.

Studies were made of the few lunar samples that appear to repre-
sent specimens of the deep lunar crust. These investigations are
part of a first step to model the initial evolution of the lunar crust.
Other analyses of lunar material included descriptive studies of soil
returned by the Soviet Luna 24 mission, and a study of Apollo 12

Science / 105
soil samples—in particular, a unique clod of exceptionally Ti-rich
red-glass spherules. This clod could represent an impact-melted
ilmenite cumulate rather than a product of volcanic fire-fountain-
ing, which has been the general interpretation for spherule-aggre-
gates found elsewhere on the moon.

In cometary research, an investigation of the gravitational inter-
action between two fragments of a split comet has shown that their
relative motion depends so critically on the circumstances at breakup
that the velocity of separation as derived from observations of the
split comets is not straightforwardly correlated with the mass of
the comet. The existence of binary cometary nuclei appears unlikely
but not entirely impossible.

A method for determining the axis of rotation of the nucleus of
a comet showing outbursts has been developed. The method de-
pends on asymmetric ejection of material as measured by asymme-
try in the observed coma. Successful application of the method has
been made to Comet P/Schwassmann-Wachmann 1. The observed
behavior of this comet has also been found to support the hypothe-
sis of crustal formation by amorphous ices. The new theory for the
outbursts involves a chain reaction of falling crust that follows a
small local triggering event.

A theory to determine the rotation periods of the nuclei of comets
that exhibit single active areas for some period of time has been de-
veloped. The new method has been successfully applied to 6 comets
in which the periods of nuclear rotation range from 4.6 to 121 hours
and supports dramatically evidence for the presence of a thick in-
sulating crust.

Solar system studies include investigation of the structure and
evolution of isolated giant gaseous protoplanets that are formed as
a result of gravitational instabilities in the primitive solar nebula. It
has been found that for masses on the order of a Jupiter mass or
less that the interiors passed through the liquid fields of common
meteoritic materials. It was further determined that a remarkably
short time exists for coalescence and rain-out of liquid droplets of
these materials into a central core. Tidal stripping of protoplanetary
envelopes from these cores can occur out to about the orbit of Jupi-
ter, but the precise conditions are sensitive to the surface condi-
tions, which change when protoplanets are embedded in the primi-
tive solar nebula. Study of the embedded structures has begun.

106 / Smithsonian Year 1978
Other solar system studies include the first phase of a quantita-
tive explanation of the azimuthal brightness variations of Saturn’s
Ring A and investigation of three-dimensional modeling that may
provide estimates of the ring thickness. A detailed set of predic-
tions for observations of mutual events of the Jovian and Asturnian
satellites has been issued. And, the motion of apparently stable but
nonlibrating asteroids in the outer belt has been examined to set
limits on Jupiter’s eccentricity and the effect of Jupiter and Saturn
on long-term dynamical depopulation of the middle belt.

Neutrino studies in the Homestake Mine, North Dakota, have
been carried out at 1100, 1850, and 4850-foot depths. *‘Ar activi-
ties of 14.1 + 1.0, 3.0 + 0.6, < 1.0 decays per day from 9.7 X 107"
°°K atoms were found. A cosmic-ray background of 0.97 SNU is
estimated for the *‘Cl— *‘Ar solar neutrino experiment and a
decay-mode independent stability limit for nucleons of 2.2  10°°
years is determined from these measurements.

RADIO ASTRONOMY

The research objectives of the Radio Astronomy Division concen-
trate on microwave atomic and molecular spectroscopy of the inter-
stellar medium, very long baseline interferometry of galactic and
extragalactic sources, participation in the Very Long Baseline Inter-
ferometry Network, laboratory microwave and submillimeter wave
spectroscopy of molecules of astrophysical interest, and experi-
ments in radio aeronomy.

Spectroscopic research on interstellar OH provided for the first
time unmistakable evidence of magnetic splitting. Several molecu-
lar investigations of interstellar clouds continued, including research
on sulphur monoxide, methyl alcohol, the hydroxyl radical, water,
and silicon monoxide. Observations with a newly developed milli-
meter wave atmospheric molecular spectrometer demonstrated the
mesospheric growth of nighttime ozone and its rapid decay at dawn.
Supporting laboratory research investigated the pressure broaden-
ing of ozone. The Harvard Radio Astronomy Station at Fort Davis,
Texas, expanded its participation in very long baseline interferome-
try research programs.

SOLAR AND STELLAR PHYSICS

The Solar and Stellar Physics Division carries out a broad range of
research activities that focus on the sun as it relates to the solar-

Science / 107
terrestrial environment, to other stars, and to astrophysical proc-
esses. The analyses of Skylab solar data from the Evv spectrometer
and the soft x-ray telescope continued. Work on the physics of ac-
tive regions and flares showed important results for the energy bal-
ance of flare loops. Other studies concentrated on the steady-state
heating of magnetically confined coronal loops of all scales from
small ephemeral bipolar loops in the low corona to large-scale coro-
nal structures. The dynamics of the expanding solar wind were in-
vestigated as well as the nonradial geometry of coronal holes.

An atlas of the solar spectrum from 225 A to 3200 A, observed
with high spectral resolution (28 mA), was published, using data
obtained during a 1974 sounding rocket flight. The atlas also dis-
plays a theoretical solar spectrum at the same spectral region, which
was calculated using stellar spectral synthesis programs developed
within the Division.

The long-term variability of solar activity was studied under the
auspices of the sao Langley-Abbot Program. Significant results in-
cluded the discovery of an apparent slowing of the overall rotation
rate of sunspots over the past 100 years. In addition, study of the
relative rotation rate of gas and magnetic fields in the solar surface
layers has led to a qualitative description of the variation of rota-
tion with depth below the surface, which is important to under-
standing the dynamics of convection and rotation in the interior.
This is expected to be valuable in studies of the solar activity cycle,
and possibly its long-term variations.

In the area of stellar research, members of the Division are par-
ticipating with members of the Optical and Infrared Astronomy
Division in the initial observing programs of the recently launched
International Ultraviolet Explorer satellite. Chromospheres and
coronas of late-type stars have been observed, as well as binary
x-ray sources and globular clusters. The Copernicus satellite has
been used in studies of the interstellar medium. Concomitant theo-
retical studies included development of model atmospheres and pre-
diction of spectra of early and late stars, as well as the interpreta-
tion of flare statistics from dMe stars and other transient sources in
comparison with solar flares.

THEORETICAL ASTROPHYSICS

The Theoretical Astrophysics Division carries out research on a di-

108 / Smithsonian Year 1978
verse range of astrophysical phenomena, with theoretical studies
often applied to the support and interpretation of observational
data. Division members frequently work in collaboration with mem-
bers of other divisions as well as with scientists in other institu-
tions. In addition, they contribute significantly to the educational
programs of the Observatory.

Valuable progress was achieved in the understanding of inter-
‘stellar dust grains, of charge transfer processes in the interstellar
gas, of the mechanisms of star formation in molecular clouds, and
of the physical processes that occur in x-ray sources.

Important advances occurred in basic studies of stellar dynamics,
gravitational theory, radiative transfer, kinetic theory, quantum
mechanics, and cosmology.

Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute

Tropical habitats are extraordinary for their overwhelming diver-
sity of plants and animals, the variety and apparent perfection of
their adaptations, and the intricacy of the relationships that link
them. Tropical disguises are one example: a twig, or a bird dropping,
or a dead leaf, may be an insect pretending to its predators that it
is something else.

Some squid and octopi of tropical waters can change color like
chameleons, matching their backgrounds or assuming bold patterns
as signals to other animals as circumstances require. Some tropical
marine fish possess elaborate social systems, where a few large
males garner most of the matings. In some species this is offset by
all individuals being born female and only turning male when
“large enough to hold their own.” Others solve the problems of
“the useless male”’ by being both sexes at once. Some plants must
attract and culture biting ants to protect them from marauding her-
bivores or strangling vines.

It is as if the overwhelming variety of organisms assured the ex-
ploitation of every opportunity by something well suited to the task
(if it weren’t, it would be replaced by something better). Much of
the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute’s task is concerned
with elucidating such examples of particularly perfect or bizarre

Science / 109
adaptation, understanding their context, and learning how this in-
credible variety of plants and animals fits together to form a com-
munity.

The tropics are not merely of academic interest. Tropical forests,
for example, are seemingly a culminating climax of evolutionary
process, where man has not only failed to maintain dense popula-
tions in any comfort, but (at least in some areas) seems well on the
way to making a desert. Worldwide, it is estimated that tropical
moist forests are being destroyed at a rate of 21 ha/min. Studying
such a forest for its own sake, on its own terms, where one can take
the time to be curious about it without imposing upon it the pre-
conceptions, and the sheer hurry, of trying to discover how best to
use it, may help us learn why nature has succeeded where man has
so conspicuously failed. It also provides an essential context of
basic understanding without which applied research would wither
and die.

The Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute (str1) provides two
unique opportunities for students of the tropics. It administers
Barro Colorado Island, a well-protected tract of moist forest with
an unusually complete vertebrate fauna. There are vaster tracts of
forest in the tropics, and forests with more kinds of animals, but no
other tropical forest community of comparable quality is so easily
reached, or so well studied, as Barro Colorado. stri also has marine
stations on both sides of this narrow isthmus, permitting one to
compare the communities of the relatively clear, nutrient-poor,
waters of the Caribbean, with its elaborate coral reefs, with the
richer, more turbid waters of the Gulf of Panama, whose luxuriant
soft-bottom mollusc communities resemble those which lived from
Trinidad to Ecuador before the isthmus blocked the seaway three
million years ago. The value of these locales is immensely enhanced
by the steady stream of graduate students and postdoctoral fellows,
many financed by Smithsonian programs, who pursue research
projects here. These students form an essential part of the “‘critical
mass” of the stri scientific community.

Some examples of the research conducted during the past year are
presented. These students, however, would not work here in such
numbers, or to such effect, without the wealth of background infor-
mation built up by their predecessors. When Marcel and Annette
Hladik came a decade ago, for their pioneering study of the response

110 / Smithsonian Year 1978
— . teammate SS ais:

Deforestation in the Panama Canal watershed. One of the objectives of the new
Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute’s Office of Conservation is to coordinate
the action of various government agencies to prevent such devastation. Below.
Acanthaster planci feeding in a mixed patch of Caribbean and Pacific corals.
These animals were maintained in isolation in a 115 kl (30,400 gal) tank at Naos
Island.

.

of monkey diets to seasonal changes in food supply, naming plants
from Barro Colorado was a forbidding task, feasible only for pro-
fessional botanists. When they returned this year to test methods
of measuring fruit production in the forest, they found tagged,
identified trees, keys for identifying plants from leaf and twig, a
herbarium, and collections of identified seeds and seedlings, which
would allow any industrious student to identify most plants.
Thomas Croat’s immensely detailed flora of Barro Colorado will
soon be published, providing further help. Similarly, Robert Ridge-
ly’s excellent field guide has transformed the identification of birds
from an esoteric art to an everyday hobby. Identifying the insects
on the Island is still a very difficult and chancy business, but Hin-
drik Wolda and Robert Silberglied are arranging for the profes-
sional identification of a multitude of insects and forming synoptic
collections; Annette Aiello is rearing a variety of caterpillars to see
what they will become; Terry and LaVerne Erwin are pusuing the
taxonomy of the local groundbeetles, and Henry Hespenheide, that
of the leafminers. As this taxonomic work continues, the work of
other researchers is greatly facilitated.

Seven years ago, an environmental monitoring program was
founded to systematize the recording of seasonal and year-to-year
changes in climate, and their effects on the community. Fluctua-
tions in rainfall and the resulting changes in soil moisture, are most
nearly decisive for the community, through their effect on the phe-
nology of the different forest trees, their schedules of flowering,
fruiting, production of new leaves, and dropping of old ones. The
program also measures aspects of forest production, primarily litter
fall, and monitors consuming populations by trapping, marking,
and releasing terrestrial mammals and censusing insects attracted
to light traps.

The monitoring program has greatly influenced research on Barro
Colorado Island. With Environmental Sciences Program support,
Miguel Estribi is monitoring fruit production by 125 fig trees, find-
ing some in fruit at any season of the year. Charles Handley and a
host of collaborators have netted over 6000 bats in the first 20
months of a study of population fluctuations, ranging behavior, and
breeding cycles of the various bats that live on this least seasonal
of all forest foods. Douglas Morrison, who began the fig study 5
years ago, has returned to study by means of radio tracking, the

112 / Smithsonian Year 1978
feeding and roosting habits of bats. The Environmental Sciences
Program also allows students of, say, the pollination of particular
flowers or the dispersal of particular fruits, to time their arrival
appropriately, and it provides many students with needed back-
ground information.

More generally, by providing a context, it permits us to see how
the many specific studies in progress on this island help us toward
understanding the community as a whole, and allows us to pinpoint
the gaps in our understanding.

Many other scientists have sought to learn about the animals and
plants of Barro Colorado from their response to seasonal changes
in their environment and have directly or indirectly benefited from
the Environmental Sciences Program monitoring. For example,
Katharine Milton is continuing her work on population regulation
in howling monkeys, showing how seasonal changes in the availa-
bility of suitable food affects diet, ranging patterns, and the degree
of aggression between troops. She is currently concerned with how
howlers choose what they eat: is the choice dictated by the presence
or absence of toxins, or nutritional quality? William Glanz and
Jacqueline Madden have been laying foundations for long-term
studies of the island’s squirrel population, which is now unusually
dense. Andrea Worthington has begun a two-year study of the
feeding strategy of fruit-eating birds. Fruit as a food source varies
in seasonal and spatial abundance.

Henry Howe has finished the first stage of studying what is es-
sentially the same problem from the plant’s point of view: how do
different trees attract birds to disperse their fruit; why do some
species fruit in close synchrony and others not, and why do some
species attract a wide variety of dispersal agents while others at-
tract a specialist suited to their needs? George Angehr is studying
how the behavior and territory-forming habits of hummingbirds is
affected by the removal of dominant individuals, in relation to
nectar supply and time of year.

Hindrik Wolda is in the fourth year of a study relating insect
population fluctuations to seasonal changes in climate and the
availability of new leaves. He has shown that tropical insect popu-
lations fluctuate as much as their temperate counterparts. Judy
Gradwohl and Russell Greenberg are studying the ““antwren flocks”
of the forest understudy and the ecological roles played by war-

Science / 113
blers migrating from the northern winter. Each flock forms about
a pair of checker-spotted and a pair of white-flanked antwrens,
which feed together and defend a common territory against other
flocks. Do these flocks seek out trees with new leaves? Does their
behavior change with seasonal change in the availability of new
leaves and the insects they attract?

Sally Levings has finished a third year of sampling small arthro-
pods in the leaf litter of the forest floor, trying to learn how differ-
ent categories of these arthropods vary in relating to seasonal
changes in climate and in thickness of leaf litter. During the severe
dry season, the forest drops many of its leaves. However, these
leaves begin to decay in earnest, and the numbers of leaf litter ar-
thropods begin to increase, when the rains come. Nigel Franks is
beginning a two-year study of population regulation in army ants,
which eat some litter arthropods. Milton Clark is following sea-
sonal changes in abundance and reproduction of forest floor frogs.
Stanley Rand, Robin Andrews, and Stella Guerrero continue to
examine the population dynamics of the small forest floor lizard
Anolis limifrons, whose numbers seem to be unaffected by food
supply, seasonal changes in climate, and apparently by the malaria
(of a kind peculiar to lizards) which most of them carry. The sea-

WE | R-MAX

DEGREES CENTIGRADE
DEGREES FAHRENHEIT

CL-MIN

WEIR-MIN

1973 Sr/s] SIZ WSIrAS} 1977
The monthly mean maximum and minimum air temperatures recorded on

Barro Colorado Island in two locations: (1) in the forest (“weir-”) and (2) in
the laboratory clearing (‘“CL-”).

114 / Smithsonian Year 1978
sonal changes in activity on the forest floor, may be decisive to the
life of the forest: the nutrients released by the rotting litter may
help fuel the burst of forest production at the beginning of the
rainy season, thereby contributing to the season of growth for the
forest’s animals.

These, and many other studies, show how thoroughly the altera-
tion of dry and rainy seasons have impressed themselves on every
feature of the biology of this forest. We can learn something of
how this community’s balance is maintained from its response to
unseasonable events. For example, heavy rains in the dry season of
1970 prevented many trees from flowering, greatly reducing that
fall’s fruit crop and causing many mammals to starve.

There is a concurrent Environmental Sciences Program at Galeta,
the Caribbean marine laboratory, which records climate, tidal fluc-
tuations, sea water temperature and salinity, and seasonal changes
in the reef community. The laboratory fronts on a reef flat, which
can be roughly divided into a coralline algae zone where the surf
breaks; an outer zone of red algae; a zone dominated, at least at
times, by colonial anemones; a turtlegrass zone; and an inner red
algae zone. The program monitors fluctuations in the boundaries of
these zones and the proportion of available space occupied by dif-
ferent species in each zone. This program has documented the
devastation wrought when tides leave the reef flat exposed during
sunny days. Such exposures, which happen once or twice a year,
devastate populations of urchins and colonial anemones, kill large
numbers of octopi, and visibly alter the appearance of the reef flat.
Such seemingly catastrophic exposure are much rarer in the bay of
Panama, or in temperate areas such as the outer coast of the Pacific
Northwest, despite their greater tidal ranges.

At Galeta, John Cubit added to the synoptic collections started
by previous laboratory directors. The environmental monitoring
program has supported a two-year study of the dissemination and
abundance of algae by Bruce Harger and Mark Hay. Hay has
shown that many algae living on isolated rocks in the “sand plain”
below the reef front, will die if transplanted to the reef, unless they
are protected from the grazers there. Grazing fish, that readily eat
these algae if transplanted to the reef, will not venture out on that
sand plain because it offers them no cover from their predators.
Herbivores and predators have a much more visible effect on the

Science / 115
texture of the “landscape” at Galeta than they do on Barro Colo-
rado Island.

Comparable projects are under way in the eastern Pacific. Bruce
Menge and Jane Lubchenco, are studying the relative roles of com-
petition, predation, herbivory, and “disturbance” in controlling the
distribution of intertidal plants and animals on the rocky shore of
an island near Naos, the Pacific marine laboratory. They find that
sessile creatures such as barnacles, mussels, and algae are eaten to
the extent that they never become “over-crowded,” and never en-
counter serious competition for space. ‘“Zonation” is accordingly
much less prevalent here than on the exposed coasts of Maine or
Oregon, for example, where one level of the shore may be packed
solid with mussels, while above is a “barnacle zone” and below is a
solid mass of seaweeds.

Peter Glynn has been continuing his studies of the reef commu-
nities of the eastern Pacific. While the molluscs of the Bay of Pan-
ama closely resemble their counterparts of the Miocene, eastern
Pacific corals probably descend from relatively recent immigrants
from the Indo Pacific. Glynn is interested in the ages and growth
rates of these reefs. He is also concerned with the factors governing
the distribution of reefs, how reefs react to the excess of nutrients
associated with upwellings (the nutrients may, on balance, be more
harmful than the coldness of the water), and the effects of reef-
destroying organisms. He has found, for example, that in the Gala-
pagos sea urchins have greatly restricted the distribution of reef
corals, while on mainland shores the fish which eat these urchins
are more common, and do not allow these urchins to become suffi-
ciently abundant to destroy mainland reefs.

Geerat Vermeij and Edith Zipser visited the Naos marine labora-
tory in connection with their studies of tropical molluscs. They can
recognize how a snail or clam died from the damage its shell sus-
tained. They have analyzed shell features which make it more diffi-
cult for various predators. For example, knobs discourage pufferfish
crushing, while a smooth shell offers little purchase for a shell-
crushing crab. They are now studying the distribution of mollusc
shell shapes, and the types of predation between the Bay of Pan-
ama, with its nutrient-rich upwellings, and the Gulf of Chiriqui,
where upwelling does not occur. They hope that further knowledge
of the molluscs of the eastern Pacific will provide perspective of

116 / Smithsonian Year 1978
how the closing of the sea way at Panama affected the living mol-
luscan fauna of Florida, Panama, the West Indies, and Northern
South America.

Sexual selection is especially interesting to biologists because it
so often favors baroque characteristics that appear to be detrimental
for the species. Analysis of such conflicts between an individual’s
advantage and the good of its group are often instructive of how
evolution works. Naida Zucker is studying sexual selection in fid-
dler crabs at Naos. She wishes to know how a female crab chooses
her mate, and what advantages she derives from choosing her mate
in the way she does.

Leo Buss is studying a minute isopod which overcomes a sexual
selection discriminating against smaller, younger males by being
born female and turning male when large enough to attract mates,
or to defend itself against other males. The young isopods feed on
a coralline alga, adult females on one sort of bryozoan, and males
on another. These isopods are most abundant on rocks with all
three food species, and Buss is now studying how these isopods
adjust competitive relationships between the coralline algae and the
two bryozoans so that they all can continue to coexist on the same
rock. This relationship is remarkably precise: the two successive
molts of juvenile isopods living on coralline algae resemble the
holes made by serpulids and barnacles respectively. The bryozoan
eaten by males has structures that would kill smaller isopods. Work
continues to decipher how this relationship evolved.

The evolution of social behavior also fascinates biologists here,
individual advantage seems often to be subordinated to the good of
the species. Very often, the advantage of the individual is ‘‘sacri-
ficed” on behalf of its family, thus increasing the proportions of the
population carrying that individual’s genes, since its relatives are
more likely to share these than other members of the population.
At Cali, Colombia, Mary Jane West Eberhard is studying the role
of such “kin selection” in the evolution of social behavior in wasps.
Not all cooperative behavior, however, is to help relatives.

Communication plays an essential role in social behavior. Some
years ago Martin Moynihan suggested that vertebrates communi-
cate largely through combinations of perhaps 15—40 stereotyped
“displays,” and that this number represents a steady state between
the origin of new displays and the decay of old ones “. . . the

Science / 117
probable evolution of displays is comparable to what is known to
happen to certain human signals. A particularly ‘strong’ word or
phrase, for example an obscenity or striking new technical term, is
apt to be very impressive and effective when it first begins to be
used. Simply because it is effective, it tends to be used more and
more frequently. And, unless constantly reinforced, it becomes es-
sentially meaningless and should be replaced.” Beverly Dugan is
studying the ecology and social behavior of iguanas on Flamenco
Island, near Naos. Iguanas are among the few herbivorous lizards,
and, for some reason, have a remarkably small repertoire of basic
displays.

Arcadio Rodaniche is studying communication among octopi in
the laboratory. Their powers of color change permit them spectacu-
lar displays some of which are shared by other cephalopods sepa-
rated from them by nearly two hundred million years of evolution.
Moreover, some octopi have a display repertoire as limited as an
iguana’s and others a repertoire as varied as a monkey’s.

Mark Bertness has been studying the ecology of hermit crabs on
both coasts. He finds, both in the field and in the laboratory, that
when more empty shells are available, hermit crabs grow faster and
become larger, and few of them reproduce. Moreover, if the same
habitat contains both a dominant and a subordinate species, the
subordinates grow less and reproduce more, because the dominants
monopolize the “better” shells. Therefore, the high reproductive
rate of the subordinate crab does not reflect a favorable environ-
ment.

Jane Wulff has been studying the relationship between sponges
and corals in the San Blas Islands, off the Caribbean coast of Pan-
ama. Sponges play a vital role in binding some corals to the reef,
and if one snips the sponge away from these corals, the corals are
far more likely to be knocked off the reef. What do the sponges get
out of it? Jane will first check whether they are less likely to be
eaten when situated on the corals.

By way of studying some of the intricacies of tropical adapta-
tions, Michael and Barbara Robinson have been examining the leaf-
mimicking mantid Acanthops falcata whose females occur in several
different forms. They find that Acanthops mates in the twenty min-
utes or so after sunrise, the time is controlled by light level rather
than by an internal clock. Females release a pheromone at this time,
which attracts the male. This is a time of the day when the light

118 / Smithsonian Year 1978
Assistant Secretary for Science David Challinor presided at the opening of the
new Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute’s Tivoli administration building.
With him from left to right, Dr. Ira Rubinoff, Director, str1; Dr. Aristides Royo,
Minister of Education, Republic of Panama; and Dr. Hugo Spadafora, Vice-
Minister of Health, Republic of Panama. Below. Panama praying mantid Phyllor-
ates chlorophaea being studied by M. H. Robinson and B. Robinson mating—in
this species the female does not always eat the male after mating.

level is still lower than that required for foraging birds, an impor-
tant predator of mantids.

Neal Smith is continuing his research on the day-flying moth
Urania fulgens, which periodically migrates in great swarms. He
would like to know what stimulates them to migrate. Donald
Windsor has begun to study chrysomelid beetles of the cassidine
group, enquiring what they eat, what eats them, and how their
larvae behave. One species, Achromis bispersa, cares for its imma-
ture offspring, while Polychalma multicaya does not. Why?

One of the advantages for students and visitors at strI is the
experience many of the stri staff are acquiring of other tropical
areas, and the perspective this confers. Olga Linares has been
studying the Diola peoples of Senegal. Alan Smith has been
comparing rosette plants in habitats above tree line in Kenya,
Venezuela, and Papua New Guinea. These plants are rather dis-
tantly related, yet all have evolved the same shape, a shape which
he has shown allows them to function better in the cold. He is also
comparing how fast they grow, how soon they die, and what con-
trols their populations. Ross Robertson has been working at Heron
Island on Australia’s Great Barrier Reef, documenting how the
habitats of the different species of damselfishes are distinct.

Martin Moynihan has been comparing social systems and modes
of communication in various animals the world around. He is now
interested in the social systems of the kingfishers, rollers, and
hornbills in Africa, all predatory birds of the same order, but with
very odd sex-ratios and very peculiar behavior. One species of
roller has four females for every male, while one of the kingfishers
has six males for every female. Why such variation? Understanding
the seemingly unreasonable helps us understand the variety of
ways evolution can work.

A number of political and administrative events of note occurred
last year. In June, President Carter visited Panama to exchange the
instruments of ratification of the new Panama Canal Treaty with
General Omar Torrijos. Earlier in the year, while the treaty was
being debated in the Senate, about half of the Senators visited the
Isthmus and several included a visit to stri in their agenda.

Under the terms of the Treaty, Barro Colorado Island and three
east bank peninsulas Bohio, Buena Vista, and Frijoles, as well as
one west bank peninsula, will become part of the expanded Barro

120 / Smithsonian Year 1978
Colorado Island Nature Monument. This designation is derived
from Article IV of the 1940 Convention on Nature Protection and
Wildlife Preservation in the Western Hemisphere. The agreement
concerning the Smithsonian custodianship of the Barro Colorado
Island Nature Monument will be transmitted by both countries to
the Inter-American Economic and Social Council of the Organiza-
tion of American States. Other parts of the Panama Canal Treaty
authorize the continued use by the Smithsonian Tropical Research
Institute of other facilities in Ancon, Galeta, and Naos Island.

Mr. Luis R. del Rio was appointed new Administrative Officer
and Dr. Harilaos Lessios from Yale University joined the scientific
staff.

Dr. Nicholas Smythe was named the first Conservation Coordi-
nator at stRI and is busy relating str1 basic research to government
officials concerned with national parks, deforestation, and other en-
vironmental issues. This office will also strengthen cooperative
links between tropical regions and developed countries and with
international organizations. Mr. Dennis Josephs was appointed
Educational Coordinator in May and completed a course on envi-
ronmental education for twenty-two secondary school teachers and
their supervisors designated by the Panama Ministry of Education.

In June the renovation of the Tivoli administration building was
finally completed and Dr. David Challinor officiated at the opening
ceremonies which were attended by many Canal Zone and Republic
of Panama officials. In August, we received a gift of a 63-foot steel
hulled, twin-engined vessel from a donor in New Orleans. Tom
Borges, our Facilities Manager, and a crew of stri volunteers trans-
ported the vessel to Panama where it is currently being overhauled
for research use. We hope that the R.V. Benjamin will augment the
capacity of our marine scientists to conduct research in tropical
America.

Our program of short-term fellowship was continued with grants
from the Exxon Foundation, The Edward John Noble Foundation,
the Smithsonian Office of Public Service’s Outreach Program, and
the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Science Scholarly Studies
Program.

In October, Mrs. Adela Gomez was presented with the Smith-
sonian Institution Secretary’s Gold Medal for Exceptional Service,
an award truly deserved.

Science / 121
Jikoku-ten (one of a set of Shitenno), early fourteenth century, Kamakura period,
Japanese, wood sculpture, polychrome. Height 2642 inches (67.3 centimeters). Freer
Gallery of Art Accession Number 77.19.
Smithsonian Year - 1978

Piotr y AND TART

CHARLES BLITZER,
ASSISTANT SECRETARY FOR HISTORY AND ART

Archives of American Art

Most of the documentary records acquired by the Archives reflect
the history of American art in the twentieth century. Acquisitions
made in 1978 conformed to this pattern, but some particularly im-
portant material dating from earlier times added special interest to
the year’s collecting.

A group of previously unknown letters from the landscape
painter Homer Martin (1836-1897) and his wife to James Stillman,
a New York art collector, tells us much about Martin’s life in
France in the 1880s and during his last sad years of struggle against
poverty and impending blindness. They also reveal the role of the
patron (Stillman), acting as benevolent agent for the sale of an
artist’s work.

The most active and best-known patron of American art in the
same period was Thomas B. Clarke, a New York merchant who
devoted much of his time, money, and energy to the promotion of
works by contemporary painters. Eleven scrapbook volumes con-
taining clippings, photographs, catalogues, and letters document
the activity from Clarke’s early involvement in the 1870s to the
1920s. They also incorporate a wealth of information on the late
nineteenth-century art world of New York, Boston, and other
centers.

A third and slightly later collector, John Gellatly, is notable for
having given his many works of art to the Smithsonian Institution,
where the collection forms a part of the National Collection of Fine

123
Arts. A major group of letters to Gellatly from Albert Pinkham
Ryder, Abbott Thayer, Irving Wiles, and Frederick S. Church, re-
cently acquired by the National Collection of Fine Arts and depos-
ited in the Archives, represents useful documentation on his rela-
tionships with those artists.

The American art market in general is further documented in the
correspondence and other records of the American Art Association,
the leading art auction house in the country in the late nineteenth
and early twentieth centuries. This collection, much of it dealing
with the activities of the Association’s president, Thomas M. Kirby,
supplements the firm’s ledgers and account books acquired by the
Archives in 1974.

The papers of Russell Smith, a painter of scenery for theaters up
and down the East Coast, cover the years from the 1830s to his
death in 1896 and contain a considerable family correspondence as
well as letters from such figures as Rembrandt Peale, Edwin Booth,
and Susan B. Anthony. Additional and related records in the collec-
tion are the papers of Russell Smith’s son Xanthus, a marine
painter. His correspondence and writings include an extended de-
scription of the Centennial art exhibition in Philadelphia and a
biographical sketch of his sister Mary, whose early death cut short
her promising career as a painter of chickens and small animals.

Correspondence, sketches, and clippings of David Claypoole
Johnson (1797-1865), widely known as the American Cruikshank,
and of his sons Thomas G. and John B. show another instance of
family talent. Ellen Day Hale (1854-1939), a Boston painter whose
brother Philip was a well-known artist and teacher, is represented _
by sketchbooks and calendar diaries of the 1870s and 1880s. An
unusual feature of her papers is a series of sketches of government
figures made when her father, Edward Everett Hale, was Chaplain
of the United States Senate in the early years of this century.

Some of the most important and interesting of the twentieth-
century collections received include several photograph albums
kept by Waldo Peirce, with snapshots of Ernest Hemingway, Max
Eastman, and Gertrude Stein; the extensive correspondence of
Peppino Mangravite covering the years from the 1920s to the pres-
ent, with letters from many notable artists of our time; diaries,
notes, and correspondence kept by Beatrice Wood, a painter and
ceramist and intimate friend of the Arensbergs and Marcel Du-

124 / Smithsonian Year 1978
champ; a microfilm of Marsden Hartley’s essays and poems; the
papers of the curator and writer Emanuel Benson, which include
Calder, Lyonel Feininger, John Marin, Ben Shahn, Alfred Stieglitz,
and dozens of others’ letters, many of them illustrated; a long series
of letters from Mark Tobey to the California collectors Joyce and
Arthur Dahl; and the personal and professional records of the
scholar and museum director Perry Rathbone.

Gallery records, always a prime source of information on the art
world, were an important aspect of Archives’ acquisitions. The cor-
respondence and other business papers of Jacques Seligmann, Inc.,
the New York branch of a Paris firm, cover the entire twentieth
century to date and, with over 100,000 items, represent one of the
Archives’ largest single collections. Records of the Rehn and Fisch-
bach Galleries in New York and of the HCE Gallery in Province-
town are, if less voluminous, certainly of major importance to
students of American art from the 1940s to the 1970s.

Several informative taped interviews were conducted during the
year under the Archives’ Oral History Program. Reminiscences and
observations of the painters Robert Bechtle, Archibald Motley,
Nathan Oliveira, and Hassel Smith; the sculptors Walker Hancock
and Tony Smith; the writers Marshall Davidson and Alfred Frank-
enstein; and such influential figures as Porter McCray, and Mrs. E.
Bliss Parkinson were recorded and are being transcribed.

The organization and cataloguing of the collections, a major as-
pect of the Archives’ work, resulted in over 2500 catalogue cards
describing and analyzing groups of records and individual items.
Use of Archives’ holdings by researchers continued to rise, with
2570 research visits made to the five Archives centers and 1190 rolls
of microfilm sent out through interlibrary loans to scholars and
students here and abroad. Both figures represent a 10-percent in-
crease over the previous year.

Books, articles, exhibition catalogues, and dissertations flow from
research conducted at the Archives. Among those completed in the
past year have been a major survey of American art to 1900; a
catalogue and articles on the Synchromist movement; dissertations
on Louis Lozowick, Philip Evergood, Romare Bearden, and Olin
Levi Warner; a book on the Mark Rothko Estate suit; a catalogue
raisonne of the works of Jackson Pollock; biographies of Arthur B.
Davies and Dorothea Lange; and exhibition catalogues on the work

History and Art / 125
of Stuart Davis, Edwin H. Blashfield, the John Quinn Collection,
and the New York School.

The Archives service to scholarship is not confined to assembling
and preserving documentation. Items from its holdings were dis-
played in connection with ten museum exhibitions, and fifteen talks
were given by staff members. The New England center sponsored
a series of six lectures on American art by authorities in the field
and organized an exhibition and catalogue based on the archives of
the Museum of Fine Arts in Boston. The Midwest center held a film
series on women artists, and the West Coast office conducted a
panel discussion on American art studies in the Bay area. The
Washington, D. C., office prepared and published A Manual for
Archives Technicians and A Checklist of the Collection, 2d edition,
revised. The Archives of American Art Journal continued to pro-
vide readers information on Archives’ holdings and acquisitions
and to open its pages to scholarly articles on American art.

Cooper-Hewitt Museum
of Design and Decorative Arts

The Cooper-Hewitt Museum opened its second fall season with the
first major exhibition of its collections, entitled “More Than Meets
the Eye.” A selection of over 500 objects, including prints, draw-
ings, textiles, and decorative arts from the Museum’s vast holdings,
was exhibited in a series of self-contained but inter-related cate-
gories, each devoted to a particular process of design. Since the
collections had not been seen on this scale since the Museum be-
came part of the Smithsonian, the exhibition proved to be extremely
popular with the public—so much so that a second Collection ex-
hibition called “Look Again!” was installed.

In addition to the two exhibitions of the Collection, Cooper-
Hewitt objects were included in twenty-six shows outside of the
Museum. Among the borrowing institutions were: the Hayward
Gallery (London, England), The Metropolitan Museum of Art
(New York, N.Y.), the Minneapolis Institute of Arts (Minneapolis,
Minn.), the University of Chicago David and Alfred Smart Gallery
(Chicago, Ill.), New York University Grey Art Gallery (New York,
N.Y.), The Jewish Museum (New York, N.Y.), and the Renwick
Gallery (Washington, D.C.).

126 / Smithsonian Year 1978
Deve

# Hehe cbs : "
berg b Aaah

‘

43 a EE

0

Sarton

74

ae

Annual Members’ Garden party at the Cooper-Hewitt Museum. Below. Visitors at
the opening of the show “Celebration of Water” in the Contemporary Design Gal-
lery of the Cooper-Hewitt Museum.

:
4
a
4
a
| a
|e
\

Participation in the Cooper-Hewitt Museum’s workshop, classes, seminars, and
lectures increased in fiscal year 1978. Here a children’s class is conducted by Jenet
Hoffmann. Below. A quilter at the quilting workshop held in the fall of 1977.

The major exhibition “Embroidery Through the Ages” opened
in June and was on view until mid-September; it filled two floors of
the Museum and consisted of two parts. One-half of the show was
an exhibition loaned from the Musée des Arts Decoratifs in Paris;
the other half presented the Museum’s own collection of “Western
European Embroideries.” The catalogue produced for the latter is
the first in a special series of publications planned on various as-
pects of the Cooper-Hewitt Collection.

The embroidery festival was followed by ‘’Cross-Currents: Neo-
classical French and Italian Drawings and Prints from the Cooper-
Hewitt Collection.” This exhibition featured a selection of 135
drawings and prints of late eighteenth- and nineteenth-century
architecture and ornament designs, along with related objects.

In addition to its major exhibitions, the Cooper-Hewitt has had a
series of small shows in the Contemporary Design Gallery. They
have covered a wide range of pertinent issues including architec-
tural drawings, vernacular architecture, and design for occasion
and function. The Gallery also was host to a traveling exhibition
entitled “The Museum of Drawers,” a self-contained unit of minia-
tures by 500 painters, sculptors, and architects.

The Museum staged its second Immovable Objects exhibition
last winter. “Subways,” as it was entitled, consisted of a tabloid-
style catalogue sold at newsstands throughout New York City,
related programs, seminars, tours, and an exhibition in the newly
renovated station at 42d Street and Avenue of the Americas, one of
the busiest in the city. The display was open 24 hours a day in an
area that was traversed by 28,500 people daily. The exhibition,
which dealt with the design of rapid-transit systems worldwide,
was requested by eighteen cities on four continents. It is being cir-
culated by the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Serv-
ice, along with “Cross-Currents’” and “Close Observation,” an
exhibition of Frederick Church sketches from the Cooper-Hewitt
Collection.

Seventy-one dedicated volunteers served in all curatorial depart-
ments as well as in the library, in the education department, in the
exhibitions department, and in the office of public relations. A for-
mal museum training program was also initiated. Twenty-three
interns participated, three of whom received $500 fellowships pro-

History and Art / 129
vided by Mrs. Celia Seigel. In conjunction with the City University
of New York’s Center for Advanced Study in Education, a video
tape was made of the dismantling of two exhibitions at the Mu-
seum in an effort to provide new training materials for registrars.

The Museum offered a full complement of workshops, lectures,
seminars, tours, and special classes on decorative arts and design
taught by distinguished curators, designers, scholars, and design
professionals. Attendance in the programs increased to 3500 stu-
dents this year: Docents conducted 430 tours accommodating over
15,000 young people and adults. Free performing arts events pre-
senting CETA artists were held in the Carnegie garden during good
weather. A video film and slide show on the architecture and design
of Los Angeles was also shown during the summer.

Over 200 donors contributed close to 4400 objects to the Mu-
seum’s collections this year. Outstanding gifts include four albums
of drawings and prints by Ely Jacques Kahn, a length of seven-
teenth-century Persian velvet, twelve silk murals by Lydia Bush-
Brown, and two Venetian blackamoors. In addition, the Museum
was most fortunate to receive the first third of an extraordinary col-
lection of over 4000 matchsafes dating from the early nineteenth
century, and a Tiffany dragonfly lamp belonging to the Carnegie
family, and a silver tea service formerly the property of Roswell
Miller, Mr. Carnegie’s son-in-law. Perhaps the most celebrated gift
of the year, however, was the elaborately embellished Beatles’ Rolls
Royce, donated by John and Yoko Lennon.

Generous donations over the past year have enabled the Museum
to plan for important additions to its current facilities. The Samuel
H. Kress Foundation has provided for the installation of a Paper
Conservation Laboratory which will be housed adjacent to the re-
cently completed Textile Conservation Laboratory. A Textile Study
Center is in the final stage of completion, thanks to the kindness
of the Thomas Evans Foundation.

Other significant gifts were received from the Arthur Ross Foun-
dation, the J.M. Kaplan Fund, the Ralph J. Weiler Foundation,
DMC, and the Embroidery Council of America. The Urban Mass
Transit Authority sponsored the travel of the “Subways” exhibi-
tion. Also the Museum again received considerable support from
the New York State Council on the Arts and the New York Com-
munity Trust.

130 / Smithsonian Year 1978
The membership grew to 5500. A newsletter was launched to
inform members of upcoming events, exhibitions, and programs, as
well as of the development and history of the Museum. The annual
benefit auction of specially donated objects successfully raised over
$110,000 for exhibitions and educational programs. Museum Shop
Sales increased considerably, and two items from the Collection
were reproduced by American Heritage.

After forty years of service as caretaker of the Carnegie Man-
sion, starting when the Carnegies were still in residence there,
Manuel Perez retired as Building Manager. Administrator John
Dobkin moved on to become the Director of the National Academy
of Design. Kurt Struver was appointed as Business Officer and
Robin Parkinson was hired as Exhibits Designer.

Since its reopening, the Cooper-Hewitt Museum has been hon-
ored by every major professional society in the design field. Its
activities have continued to receive critical acclaim and a strong
public following.

Freer Gallery of Art

Several major appointments were made during the past year. In
October 1977, Thomas Lawton was named Director, becoming the
fifth person to hold that position since the Gallery opened in 1923.
Lawton came to the Freer as Curator of Chinese Art in 1967 and
was appointed Assistant Director in 1971. He served as Acting
Director following the death of Dr. Harold P. Stern on April 3,
1977.

In July 1978, Richard Louie joined the Freer staff as Executive
Assistant to the Director. Educated at Princeton University and at
the University of Washington, Louie holds masters degrees in both
economics and in Far Eastern Studies. He will oversee the Gallery’s
administrative and financial programs and policies.

During 1978, the Gallery’s major exhibition entitled, ‘“Chinese,
Japanese and Korean Ceramics,” presented approximately 350 ob-
jects from the Freer collection and spanned the period from the late
neolithic to the end of the nineteenth century. Publication of a
handsomely illustrated volume on ceramics in the Freer Gallery of

History and Art / 131
Art, part of the series entitled, Oriental Ceramics: The World's
Great Collections, provided the original impetus for the exhibition.
Dr. Harold P. Stern, the late Director of the Gallery, guided the
initial planning. After his death, members of the Gallery’s cura-
torial staff continued the task of selecting the finest examples of
Chinese, Japanese, and Korean ceramics in the collection and of
preparing them for display.

Plans for future exhibitions continued during 1978. Dr. Esin Atil,
Associate Curator of Islamic Art, completed research for a cata-
logue of those Iranian and Indian drawings to be included in
“The Masters of the Brush,” scheduled to open on October 16,
1978. Following that exhibition, the Gallery will install a selection
of Japanese lacquer in April 1979. The exhibition will be one of the
activities being planned for the “Japan Today” program.

His Majesty The Emperor of Japan honored Dr. Harold P. Stern
with a posthumous award of Japan’s Order of the Sacred Treasure,
Third Grade. The Order was given in recognition of Stern’s many
contributions to furthering the understanding of Japanese art and
culture in the United States. The Harold P. Stern Memorial Fund
has now received over $100,000 from over 90 contributors for the
purpose of furthering Japanese art.

In July 1978, a comprehensive inventory of the collection was
completed after two years with satisfactory results. Each piece in
the collection was physically checked against a card catalogue file
located in each storage area. The card file was checked for com-
pleteness against existing records. A total of 11,291 objects in the
collection was inventoried.

The retirement of Raymond A. Schwartz, the Gallery’s chief
photographer, on August 31, 1978, marked the end of thirty-eight
years of distinguished government service. Schwartz came to the
Freer in 1945, shortly after his discharge from the United States
Army. Following several months as a guard, he began to assist the
Gallery’s photographer. His extraordinary sensitivity to the subtle-
ties of Oriental art objects earned Schwartz an international repu-
tation as an art photographer. His dedication to the Gallery and his
unassuming manner reflect the remarkable personal qualities that
have guided him throughout his career.

Members of the Smithsonian Council, led by Dr. Gordon N.
Ray, spent one morning at the Freer Gallery of Art during their

132 / Smithsonian Year 1978
Supervisory Photographer Raymond A. Schwartz retired on August 31, 1978, after
thirty-three years of service at the Freer Gallery of Art.

latest meeting on May 12 to 14, 1978. After touring the exhibition
galleries, conservation laboratories, and storage areas, the Council
members discussed Gallery programs, policies, and problems with
the Freer staff. In their report to Secretary Ripley, the Council
stated, “It was clear that the Freer had no problem of so-called
collection management. . . . Its control of the collection is close to
perfection in its completeness and its availability to students and
scholars, both here and in other museums. . . . The members of the
Council were particularly impressed with the conservation and
restoration program which is one of the finest in the country. ...
The situation of the Freer is clearly excellent. It is a distinguished
collection and one of the great museums of its kind in the world. A
visit here refreshes the mind and spirit.”

Among other Gallery visitors of note were Her Royal Highness
Princess Alia of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan and Lee Kuan
Yew, Prime Minister of Singapore.

Dr. Thomas Lawton accepted an invitation by the National
Palace Museum in Taiwan, the Republic of China, to lecture and to
study the collections. While in Taiwan as an official guest of the
museum in June, Lawton held discussions with curators and other
staff members. He also visited museums and colleagues in Japan
and Singapore.

Lawton was appointed to serve on the Gallery Advisory Com-
mittee of the Asia House Gallery, New York; the Visiting Commit-
tee to the Department of Far Eastern Art of the Metropolitan
Museum of Art, New York; the Subcommittee on Museums of the
United States-Japan Conference on Cultural and Educational Inter-
change (cutcon), New York; and on the Committee on Education
of the Association of Art Museum Directors. For his work in pro-
moting Equal Employment Opportunity, Lawton received the Smith-
sonian Institution Women’s Program Certificate of Appreciation.

The collection was increased during this fiscal year by forty-five
objects.

The Freer Gallery sponsored the twenty-fifth annual series of
“Illustrated Lectures on Oriental Art.’” One of the six lectures was
sponsored jointly with the Embassy of Japan entitled, “The Recon-
struction of Todaiji and the Styles of Kamakura Sculpture,” by Dr.
Christine Guth Kanda of Princeton University. The Rutherford J.
Gettens Memorial Lecture, ““Some New Thoughts on Old Chinese

134 / Smithsonian Year 1978
Bronzes,” was given by W. Thomas Chase of the Freer Gallery.
Mr. Gettens was Head Conservator at the Freer from 1951 to 1974,
and Mr. Chase is the present Head Conservator.

Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden

Now in its fourth year and firmly established as a major museum
of contemporary art, the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden
continues to bring a diversified program of significant exhibitions,
lectures, films, and symposia to the public. A balance of offerings
treating the art of the recent past and that of the present has
emerged as the pattern for the Museum’s exhibits program together
with didactic offerings designed to enhance and extend the effec-
tiveness of exhibitions.

More than a million visitors took advantage of these programs
during 1978; for many it was their first encounter with contempo-
rary art, for others it was a renewed acquaintance with works and
artists previously seen and admired. Written comments from these
visitors testify to the diverse and vigorous public reaction and the
ability of the Museum to engender intense responses at either end
of the critical scale. A singular manifestation of free expression in
a free society, contemporary art leaves no one indifferent to its
presence or significance when presented with boldness, eloquence,
and style.

The Museum’s 1978 exhibits program began with a notable ret-
rospective exhibition “Kenneth Noland” that presented the work
of this American color field artist whose bold paintings, suffused
with dazzling color contrasts, have earned him an international
reputation and have had an undeniable influence on the younger
generation of artists.

An exhibition dealing with more conceptual forms in contempo-
rary art, ‘Probing the Earth: Contemporary Land Projects,” gen-
erated great interest among Museum visitors and its importance
was signified by extensive coverage in the national and European
press. The “Noland” and “Earth” exhibitions followed ‘Thomas
Eakins,” a presentation of the Museum’s collection of paintings by
this artist. The three shows provided a demonstration of the Mu-

History and Art / 135
seum’s varied exhibition schedule as well as a dramatic contrast of
nineteenth- and twentieth-century esthetics.

The “Gregory Gillespie” exhibition introduced the Museum’s
visitors to a young American artist whose great pictorial power and
skill aroused unusual viewer involvement. This was the artist’s first
major museum exhibition and the press and critical reaction was
exceptional.

The “Gillespie” exhibition was followed by “Europe in the Sev-
enties: Aspects of Recent Art,” a display originating at the Art
Institute of Chicago and presenting a lively view of avant-garde
directions in current European art. Challenging and provocative, it
reflected the philosophical and esthetic imperatives which have
shaped much European art in the last decade.

Reaching back in time to an important but little known move-
ment in the history of modern art that took root in Barcelona at
the turn of the century and included the young Pablo Picasso, the
Museum presented “Els Quatre Gats: Art in Barcelona Around
1900,” an exhibition prepared by Princeton University.

One of the Museum’s most ambitious exhibitions to date was
presented during the summer months. “The Noble Buyer: John
Quinn, Patron of the Avant-Garde” consisted of seventy-eight
works identified as having been in the collection of John Quinn,
one of the earliest and liveliest American collectors of paintings
and sculpture during the early part of this century. Loans from
museums and private owners around the world contributed to a
visually exciting exhibition of great historic significance. The exhi-
bition and its scholarly catalogue was the work of Judith Zilczer
of the Department of Painting and Sculpture.

As a participant in the Smithsonian Institution’s presentation of
a historical survey of Mexican art from the pre-Columbian era to
the present, sponsored by the Armand Hammer Foundation, the
Hirshhorn Museum displayed paintings, drawings and prints of.
Mexico’s modern “Big Three” in an exhibition entitled, ‘“Orozco,
Rivera, Siqueiros.” This display was comprised of works from the
national museums of Mexico, many of them being shown in the
United States for the first time.

During the late summer and fall of 1978, the Museum paid
homage to the great British sculptor Henry Moore. In celebration
of Moore’s eightieth birthday, the Museum showed for the first time

136 / Smithsonian Year 1978
On a visit to the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden on Novem-
ber 15, 1977, Georgia O’Keeffe studies a work she created in 1945,
Goat’s Horn with Red, now in the Hirshhorn’s permanent collection.
Miss O’Keeffe was in Washington for a ninetieth birthday homage.
Below. Gregory Gillespie’s Still Life with Squash and Rutebegas, 1975,
(oil and magna on wood), is a recent acquisition of the Hirshhorn Mu-
seum. Gillespie, an American painter, was honored with a major one-
man exhibition at the Hirshhorn this past winter.

The Hirshhorn Museum plaza was the scene of the dedication ceremony on July 19,
1978, of Isis, Mark di Suvero’s monumental sculpture, a gift from the Institute of
Scrap Iron and Steel. Senator Daniel P. Moynihan, left, accepts the Deed of Gift
from Secretary of the Interior Cecil D. Andrus, Secretary Ripley is seated behind

them; seated at the right is Noah Liff, President of the Institute of Scrap Iron and
Steel. Below. On July 11, 1978, Mrs. Joan Mondale visits Mark di Suvero at work
on Isis in the Hirshhorn Museum plaza.

its total holdings of Moore sculpture, drawings, and prints, con-
sisting of seventy-five items. As part of the Museum’s continuing
program of displaying the diversity and depth of its collection in
the form of small, selected one-person exhibitions, forty-three
works by the American artist Philip Evergood were selected from
the permanent collection by Kendall Taylor, a Smithsonian Insti-
tution fellow working at the Museum on her dissertation, which
deals with Evergood’s work. Also from the Museum’s permanent
collection came an exhibition of works by the German-American
artist George Grosz.

Augmenting the Museum’s exhibits program was a series of lec-
tures on various aspects of contemporary art and art history.
Among the speakers were Edward Fry, Agnes Martin, James
Wines, Jan van der Marck, Laurance Hubbert, Jacqueline Barnitz,
Max Kozloff, Robert Rosenblum, Michael Blackwood, and Ivan
Karp. An all-day seminar relating to the John Quinn exhibition was
held in cooperation with the Smithsonian Associates. Speakers in-
cluded Professor George Heard Hamilton, Anne d’Harnoncourt,
Sidney Geist, and Professor B. L. Reid.

The Museum’s film program presented outstanding films on con-
temporary art and artists, as well as films created by contemporary
film-makers. These included Walls of Fire, Wandering Wall, Isis,
Paris 1900, Cubist Directions, and Gabriel.

The Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden was invited to
select the United States entry to the Belgrade International Exhibi-
tion held in conjunction with the international meeting ‘The Con-
ference on Security and Cooperation in Europe” attended by thirty-
three nations. The paintings and sculpture of Willem deKooning
were selected by the Museum as the United States entry, and their
exhibition proved a great success. The works have also been shown
in Bucharest, Warsaw, Vienna, and Berlin, under the auspices of
the International Communication Agency.

The Museum continues the important task of building its perma-
nent collection through gifts and purchases. The purpose of these
acquisitions is to keep the collection contemporary so that it will
continue to reflect current developments in painting and sculpture,
and, wherever possible, build upon original strengths in the collec-
tion. During 1978, the Museum acquired eighty-four works of art.

Responding to requests from institutions throughout the United
States and abroad, the Museum lent 101 individual items which

History and Art / 139

were seen by the public in cities as far apart as San Francisco, Cali-
fornia; Durham, North Carolina; Grand Forks, North Dakota; and
Phoenix, Arizona. A traveling exhibition, drawn from the Mu-
seum’s permanent collection, consisting of twenty-four sculptures
and twenty-four drawings by major European and American sculp-
tors of the past one-hundred years, continued its schedule of show-
ings in South Carolina museums. It was also seen there during the
“Spoleto Festival, U.S.A..” A tour of this exhibition during 1979-
1980 is now being scheduled with the cooperation of the Smith-
sonian’s Traveling Exhibition Service.

The Museum continues to provide visitors with a variety of
didactic material including wall labels, checklists, brochures, and
handouts, the latter ranging from a single page to more ambitious
illustrated mini-catalogues, all distributed free to the public. All
major exhibitions were also accompanied by well-documented and
illustrated catalogues that served the general public as well as stu-
dents and scholars.

The highly successful “Hirshhorn Holiday,” originated in 1976
specifically for children, was repeated in 1977. This delightful four-
hour program of music, clowns, mimes, and puppeteers was again
made possible through the generosity and cooperation of the Wom-
en’s Committee of the Smithsonian Associates. The performance
drew a crowd of 4500 adults and children.

Members of the staff continued to lecture at the Museum and at
other institutions; to write for publication; to work with graduate
and undergraduate museum interns and Smithsonian fellows; to
respond to written inquiries and visits from scholars, students, and
artists; and to carry forward the tasks of research and documenta-
tion.

An active docent program offered expert guidance to interested
visitors with regard to the permanent collection as well as special
exhibitions. An extension program designed to prepare school
classes for their Museum visits began in September 1977 and has
thus far included 2744 children.

Other departments of the Museum, concerned with the care and
management of the collection and the mounting of exhibitions,
continued to make important contributions.

The Office of the Registrar completed an ongoing inventory of
the sculpture collection, and such inventory will be rotated yearly

140 / Smithsonian Year 1978
between the painting, sculpture, and print and drawing collections.
It also continued its project of translating the Museum’s catalogue
data onto machine-retrievable forms.

The Department of Exhibits and Design was responsible for the
design, construction, and installation of eleven exhibitions, as well
as for continuing changes in the installation of the permanent col-
lection. A lead role in the redesign of the Sculpture Garden was
played by the Department Chief Joseph Shannon who worked with
Mr. Lester Collins, Landscape Architect, and Philip Reiss, Director
of the Office of Facilities Planning and Engineering Services, in
producing a design concept which was approved by the National
Commission of Fine Arts and the National Capital Planning Com-
mission. The reconstructed Sculpture Garden will provide wheel-
chair access to both levels of the Garden by means of special ramps,
while more plantings and benches will be introduced for the greater
comfort of visitors and the more effective display of the sculpture.

The Conservation Department continued to examine and treat
works of art requiring minor conservation or serious restoration.
An outstanding accomplishment during 1978 was the reconstruc-
tion of two monumental works of sculpture that had been severely
damaged by a wind storm. The Nicolas Schoffer Spatiodynamique
17 which appeared to have been irreparably damaged was in fact
completely restored, while the George Rickey Three Red Lines was
reconstructed and its balancing mechanism improved by the artist
in his upstate New York studio.

The Photography Department continued to add to its archives
and record of the permanent collection as well as special exhibi-
tions. The Department responded to numerous requests for photo-
graphs, slides, and color transparencies from students, scholars,
and publishers.

An outstanding event in 1978 was the installation and dedica-
tion of a forty-two-foot-high sculpture by the American artist
Mark di Suvero on the Museum’s Plaza, a gift to the American
people from the Institute of Scrap Iron and Steel, Inc. A gala cere-
mony marked the sculpture’s unveiling and a large audience con-
sisting of representatives from government, business, and the arts
listened to remarks by Secretary Ripley; Senator Daniel Patrick
Moynihan, Chairman of the Hirshhorn Museum’s Board of Trustees;
Mr. Cecil D. Andrus, Secretary of the Interior; and Mr. di Suvero.

History and Art / 141
Joseph Henry Papers

Volume 3 of The Papers of Joseph Henry is in the hands of the
Smithsonian Institution Press, with publication anticipated early in
1979. Covering Henry’s career in 1836 and 1837, the volume is
dominated by the documentation of his eight-month European visit.

Considerable progress has been made in the research and editing
for the following volume, spanning the years 1838 through 1840.
Of paramount interest in volume 4 are the many entries from
Henry’s laboratory notebook. This was a period of intense experi-
mentation by Henry spurred by his acceptance as an equal by the
leading members of the European scientific community. The sur-
viving documentation of his scientific activity is extensive.

Concurrently with the editing of volume 4, the Henry Papers
staff began work on a volume of Henry’s nontechnical writings
spanning his professional career that consists primarily of ad-
dresses or articles describing the activities of the scientists for
general audiences or interpreting the role of the scientist in Ameri-
can society. Annotations will be kept to a minimum. The resulting
volume should be useful as a set of readings for courses in the his-
tory of American science, American intellectual history, and Ameri-
can social history.

The project continues to search respositories for further Henry
documentation and to enter Henry manuscripts into the computer
index. During the past fiscal year successful hunts were conducted
in the Museum of Comparative Zoology, the Peabody Museum of
Archaeology, and the Hunt Botanical Library. The number of docu-
ments indexed surpassed the 43,000 mark.

In addition to its publication efforts, the Henry Papers project
has functioned as a central scholarly resource for the history of
science in the United States and as a model for historical editing
projects. It supplies assistance for scholars working on such diverse
topics as state geological surveys, the contributions of the Rogers
brothers to science, and the work of Jacques Loeb. Fellows on both
the graduate and undergraduate level used its facilities. Among the
editorial projects which have consulted the Henry Papers during
the past year were the John W. Dawson and Thomas A. Edison
Papers. .

142 / Smithsonian Year 1978
Under the auspices of Nathan Reingold, the Nineteenth-Century
Seminar continued to provide a forum for scholars both inside and
outside the Smithsonian. The past year saw presentations on topics
in the history of science, art history, and military history.

National Collection of Fine Arts

Ten years ago, on May 16, 1978, the National Collection of Fine
Arts (NcFA) opened its galleries to the public in its new-old home
—the Patent Office Building. To commemorate the occasion this
year a major exhibition, “Past and Present,” was mounted to recall
the collection’s long and sometimes troubled history—the earliest
objects were collected at the beginning of the 1830s—and to illus-
trate the change in taste and function of art museums over the
almost century and a half of the collection’s existence. More than
four hundred objects were selected from the museum’s reserves—
some had not been shown publicly for almost a century—and ex-
hibited in settings suggestive of the ways they were first displayed.
Some of the pieces must have felt particularly at home because
they had been exhibited before in the Patent Office. But that was
in the 1840s when that building housed Washington’s first national
gallery.

In the past ten years the collection has almost doubled in size,
the Renwick Gallery has been opened, and museum activities have
greatly expanded. Innovative programs in public education; gradu-
ate research in American art; the building of comprehensive, re-
trievable archives necessary for intensive study; training museum
personnel; and maintaining an extensive publications program are
all now part of the ongoing activity. Through much of the period
the museum not only produced an average of twenty-five exhibi-
tions a year, mostly on previously unknown or little-studied ma-
terial, but also rehabilitated a substantial portion of the long-
neglected collection. The ncra, with specialists working in many
fields, has become a major center for the documentation, study,
and appreciation of American art, past and present.

Among the notable accessions during this celebration year was
a large, compellingly beautiful painting by Albert Bierstadt, the

History and Art / 143
bequest of Mrs. Helen Huntington Hull. Restored to its original
luminous elegance by the Department of Conservation, it now
serves as the focal point of the nineteenth-century landscape gal-
leries. Added to the galleries as well are a fine view by Frederick
Kensett bequeathed by Mrs. Hull, a meticulously painted early sea-
scape by William Bradford, and a recently restored colorful land-
scape by the little known Samuel Lee, who painted in Cincinnati
and New Orleans before 1841. The area devoted to Americans
working in Italy during the nineteenth century was enriched by an
1849 landscape by Daniel Huntington and an evocative view of the
Roman campagna by Thomas H. Hotchkiss, newly cleaned to
reveal its astonishing range of color.

A great addition to the Lincoln Gallery is Rembrandt Peale’s
monumental painting, The Roman Daughter, an acquisition made
possible by the generosity of members of the James Smithson
Society. Painted in 1811 and widely discussed at the time, it is
considered a key work in the development of American art. On the
approach to the Lincoln Gallery one now encounters a moody,
thought-provoking sculpture by George Segal, The Curtain, a re-
cent museum purchase. Close by is the arresting permanent instal-
lation of James Hampton’s glistening Throne of The Third Heaven
of the Nation’s Millenium General Assembly, finally settled back at
the museum after exhibition in Minneapolis, New York, Mont-
gomery, and Boston.

Among the large group of works added to the collection of prints
and drawings were several from the notable exhibition ‘““New Ways
with Paper,” which called attention to recent concentration on the
qualities and uses of paper, the paper often being made by the
artist himself. One of the most popular exhibitions of the year
was the superb group of color prints and pastels by Mary Cassatt,
selected by Consultant Adelyn Breeskin for showing in the print
and drawing galleries, a prelude to the republication of her au-
thoritative long-out-of-print volumes on the artist. Another popular
print and drawing exhibition was the presentation of the warmly
human drawings and watercolors of Raphael Soyer which opened
the season.

In October an exhibition of paintings by Charles Bird King, the
first painter to settle permanently in Washington, known chiefly
for his portraits of Indians from the 1820s, revealed a complex

144 / Smithsonian Year 1978
Albert Bierstadt’s Western Landscape, 1868, is a bequest of Mrs. Helen Hunting-
ton Hull to the National Collection of Fine Arts. Below. New installation at NCFA

of James Hampton’s Throne of the Third Heaven of the Nation’s Millenium Gen-
eral Assembly.

Gift of the Smithson Society, Rembrandt Peale’s The Roman Daughter, 1811, is now
permanently hung in the Lincoln Gallery of the National Collection of Fine Arts.

artistic personality. The exhibition and accompanying book brought
together for the first time the full range of King’s activity. Among
the exhibitions to follow, was a restrospective, later shown at the
Guggenheim Museum, of Attilio Salemme, a highly original artist
who died in 1955. Continuing the policy of keeping in touch with
art in various parts of the country, Curator of Education Peter
Bermingham assembled an exhibition of contemporary art from
Alaska which provided many surprises. In honor of Alice Pike
Barney, whose Studio House is being restored by ncra, an exhibi-
tion was devoted to her paintings and the work of her turn-of-the-
century friends.

The Department of Exhibition and Design, in addition to rehang-
ing many galleries following the huge, successful California show,
installed some twenty-seven exhibitions, sixteen of which required
major construction. Some of the most complex installations were
for the Renwick’s twelve varied exhibitions. ““The Decorative De-
signs of Frank Lloyd Wright” required the adaptation of a Vic-
torian interior to the severe designs of Wright, and the great
collection of ceramic ware by Maria Martinez and her family had
to be mounted in an atmosphere sympathetic to the refined tradi-
tional Indian shapes. The elegant recent works in enamel by Wil-
liam Harper and the precisely designed silver and gold objects by
Ronald Pearson made very different demands. One of the fascinat-
ing installations was for ‘Murals in the Round,” which showed off
an extraordinary collection of miniature painted tipis of the Kiowa
and Kiowa-Apache Indians, commissioned by the Smithsonian in
the 1890s and never before shown as the works of art they are.
John C. Ewers, Senior Ethnologist of the National Museum of
Natural History, where the works have been stored, collaborated
with the ncra staff to produce the exhibition and publication. An-
other collaborative exhibition was ‘“The Harmonious Craft: Ameri-
can Musical Instruments,” produced in association with the Divi-
sion of Musical Instruments of the National Museum of History
and Technology.

Fifteen visiting research fellows were in residence during the
year, some supported by a generous grant from the Merrill Trust,
which also provided much needed travel funds for the fellows.
Fifteen interns, ranging from undergraduate to advanced graduate
students studied museum procedures with the staff, and two stu-

History and Art / 147
FP me ATTHE Renwick. me
ETHEL w. MOHAMED. 1173 —

A recent gift to the Renwick Gallery is Ethel Mohamed’s recollection in stitchery
of the opening of an exhibition of her story-telling “stitch pictures” at the Ren-
wick. Below. Maria Montoya Martinez, a Tewa Indian from the San Ildefonso
Pueblo near Sante Fe, New Mexico, is internationally recognized as the foremost
Native American potter. Now 96 years of age, Maria’s craft tradition is continued
by her family. The exhibition which opened at the Renwick Gallery March 31,
1978, displayed pottery made by five generations of the Martinez family.

dent conservators worked in the Conservation Laboratory. All fel-
lows gave public lectures on their research, and in May the
museum sponsored a seminar with invited scholars to examine the
concept, once so fondly maintained, that American culture at the
end of the nineteenth century had a particular affinity with the
Italian Renaissance. The major papers were later presented as a
public program.

The question of what one looks for, and where one begins in a
museum displaying a thousand works, was answered in part by the
Department of Education’s cleverly devised and very popular “‘self-
tours” that helped children and families to explore for themselves
various aspects of art in the galleries. ncFa’s notable docent tours
which stimulate discussion and thoughtful looking among visitors
also were available, and as heretofore drew much praise from
nearly 17,000 participants. The Renwick Gallery was able to carry
its craft demonstrations to local schools, and present performances,
demonstrations, and lectures in the gallery. Cooperation of the
schools also made possible a humanities program and teacher in-
stitutes, as well as the continuing activity in Discover Graphics.
Junior interns (high-school students working with the education
staff) made their lively contribution, and the annual May family
celebration, Kaleidoscope Day, kept some 3500 young people busy
exploring, creating, and enjoying art.

National Museum of History and Technology

After the intense activity surrounding the Bicentennial, the Na-
tional Museum of History and Technology has entered a period of
transition. The efforts of 1976, besides celebrating the nation’s
birth, marked the close of the Museum’s first dozen years, a time
in which the new Museum developed the characteristic blend of
rigorous scholarship and exciting exhibits that earned it a reputa-
tion for innovation and flair. Now, in 1978, with this creative
energy an established force, the Museum is entering a new phase
of activity, directed toward systematic planning for the future and
managing and improving its collections.

History and Art / 149
The credit for setting this process in motion belongs to former
Director Brooke Hindle, who, before completing his term in June
of this year, saw through the reorganization of the curatorial de-
partments, thus providing a new structure on which the Museum
can continue to build. While this internal change is still in progress,
activities in the areas of exhibits, scholarship, and collections have
continued strong.

EXHIBITS

The Museum opened two major exhibits during the year, “Atom
Smashers: Fifty Years” and the ‘Hall of American Maritime Enter-
prise.” Both are products of several years of preparation and to-
gether they cover over 20,000 square feet of the first floor.

“Atom Smashers,” which opened on December 2, 1977, is the
first exhibit in the country to assemble historic high energy particle
accelerators—the machines used to explore the inner workings of
the atom. It is also the museum’s first attempt to construct a major
exhibit on a complex scientific subject. The historical development
of particle accelerators is treated on a fairly high plane, although
the exhibit may be successfully viewed on less demanding levels as
well.

The visually intriguing machines on display represent land-
marks in the scientific search for ever higher energies required to
“smash” the atom’s core. The exhibit introduces E. O. Lawrence
and his 27-inch cyclotron, which produced 6 million volts in the
1930s, and progresses to a walk-through partial reconstruction of
Fermilab’s 4-mile proton synchrotron, at 500 billion volts the most
powerful accelerator in the world.

The exhibit was planned by Dr. Paul Forman, Curator of Modern
Physics. The Department of Energy provided major funding, and
important contributions were made by accelerator laboratories
across the country and abroad.

The “Hall of American Maritime Enterprise’ opened to the
public on August 11, 1978. The largest exhibit produced by
the Museum’s own design and production staff in many years,
it is a historical introduction to the various aspects of two centuries
of commercial shipping in America. At the heart of most exhibit
units are the exquisite models of clipper ships, fishing craft, river
steamboats, and ocean liners which form the National Watercraft

150 / Smithsonian Year 1978
Secretary Ripley introduces First Lady Rosalynn Carter in a ceremony celebrating
the donation of her Inaugural Ball gown to the National Museum of History and
Technology. The gown is now installed in The First Ladies’ Hall. Below. In NMuT’s

exhibit “Atom Smashers: Fifty Years” is a reconstructed section of the largest
scientific instrument ever made. It is the Fermi National Accelerator Laboratory’s
proton synchrotron, a machine four miles long that was built to split the atom.
It was completed in 1972. In the exhibit, life-size transparencies at each end of
the tunnel section create the illusion of depth. (Photograph by Rick Fenner,
Fermilab Photo Unit.)

— = ro a

eaten oe

AFa

NA es

SAS weet

A rare watercolor from the Thomas Cochran Dudley Collection in NMut’s
Division of Naval History. Dudley was a Purser’s Assistant on Commodore
Perry’s expedition to Japan in 1853-1854. His painting gives contemporary in-
sight into shipboard customs in the pre-Civil War Navy. Note the interesting
uniform detail and the careful record-keeping on the issuance of grog.

re

Facing page. In the “Hall of American Maritime Enterprise,” an exhibit pre-
sents various aspects of two centuries of commercial shipping in America.
Shown above is a model of the transatlantic liner Philadelphia, built in 1891,
which sailed with the American Line Fleet. Below. The display includes a full
scale replica of a section of mast and rigging used in the 3-masted tobacco
ship Brilliant, built in Hampton Roads, Virginia, in 1775.

a

ne .

This American common press (1810) is being demonstrated by volunteer Chris
Pomeroy of the Georgetown Day School. Below. Volunteers from the Office of Horti-
culture decorated Christmas trees from many lands in a popular exhibition at NMHT.
The Italian Tree of Lights (left) displays at its base the manger scene, the significant

Italian Christmas symbol that dates to Saint Francis of Assisi (12th-13th centuries).
The decorations on the Japanese tree (right) are characteristic of other Japanese
festivals as well as Christmas, which is observed by both the religious and non-
religious.

Collection. Other significant artifacts highlighting the hall are an
operating Fresnel lens which greets the visitor, and a fully-outfitted
whaleboat from one of America’s last square-rigged whaling ships.
One can find the oldest surviving steam engine made in America
(used by John Steven in 1804 to power his Little Juliane on the
Hudson River), the entire engine room from a 1920s Coast Guard
buoy tender, and mementos from great luxury liners such as the
Leviathan and the United States. An important collection of scrim-
shaw is displayed near the exit, opposite a recreation of a tattoo
parlor.

The exhibit was financed largely through donations from in-
dividuals and organizations associated with the maritime industry.
Dr. Melvin Jackson, former Curator of Marine Transportation,
was responsible for the original plans, while Dr. Robert C. Post,
Project Manager, and Nadya Makovenyi, Designer, carried the
project throtigh to completion.

Considerable activity was visible also in the Museum’s tempo-
rary exhibit areas. In the Dibner Library gallery, the exhibit “Fo-
cusing on America,” which featured rare hand-colored maps of the
New World, was followed by “Aspects of Art and Science,” an
attractive display of objects illustrating the continual collaboration
between art and science that exists in many different cultures. The
same gallery next featured an exhibit titled “Women in Science in
Nineteenth Century America,” which focused on the many roles
women played in areas such as astronomy, physics, and chemistry.

Another area devoted to rotating exhibits is the Hall of Printing
and Graphic Arts. Replacing last year’s ““Pochoir” exhibit, ““Cut on
Wood: The Art of Wood Engraving” opened in June. The exhibit
was organized by Dr. Peter C. Marzio, the Museum’s Curator of
Prints, who departed this year to take on the directorship of the
Corcoran Gallery.

The Hall of Photography featured the second half of the exhibit
“Photographing the Frontier,” comprised of nearly a hundred

7

photographs of life in frontier America. In a newly-created exhibit
area at the entrance to the Hall of Everyday Life in the American
Past, on the second floor, a traveling display presented the story
of the Malaspina Expedition, one of the first scientific voyages
along the American northwest coast. On the third floor, the exhibit
“Loose the Mighty Power,” representing the growth of steam
power in America, opened in late September.

History and Art / 155
Smaller temporary exhibits reflected a wide array of topics. One
featured Adrian, a fashion designer of the 1940s, and another, the
mathematician Gauss. John R. Gerwig’s collection of historic
American handtools was displayed, as were ‘Tools to Test Psychic
Phenomena.”

SCHOLARSHIP

Research by the Museum’s staff resulted in the publication this
year of sixteen books and separate publications and fifty-seven
articles and scholarly papers.

The largest, without doubt, is The American Railroad Passenger
Car, by John H. White, Jr., which brings to fruition ten years of
research into one of American industry’s richest histories. In the
700 pages of this comprehensive work, White documents the range
of styles and functions of passenger cars from the Hacker’s ““hogs-
head” car (an improvisation on the barrel) to the luxurious “City of
Toledo,” with its frescoed ceilings, plush carpets, and ornate wood-
work. Technological features of railroad cars are described and
illustrated in detail, be they the workings of air brakes or flush
toilets. Critics have described White’s book as “first of all a schol-
ar’s work, but one written with warmth and wit... as full of
fascinating details as an old railroad junkyard.”

Wheeled elegance at an easier pace is the subject of Don H.
Berkebile’s Carriage Terminology: An Historical Dictionary. This
work, which illustrates its definitions with over 500 scale drawings,
catalogue plates, cuts and photographs of vehicles, parts and ac-
cessories, establishes for the first time a standard nomenclature
and terminology for all carriage types of the Western World.

The first comprehensive history of modern coinages from 1450
to 1789 was published this year in Switzerland, with a French
translation to come out later in the fall. In this volume, authors
Vladimir and Elvira Clain-Stefanelli consider the increasing num-
bers of coins from the Renaissance to the French Revolution not
only as measures of value, but as historical documents and expres-
sions of technological development. A large amount of the Stef-
anellis’ research had to be directed toward establishing the weight
and fineness of the metallic contents of the coins in order to dem-
onstrate their place within the general monetary development of
a country or a monetary system. This book concludes the monu-

156 / Smithsonian Year 1978
mental history of money undertaken with the cooperation of the
numismatic centers in Oxford, Cambridge, London, and Munich.

In Neptune’s Gift—A History of Common Salt, Robert P.
Multhauf details the history of man’s oldest raw material, and an
unexpectedly essential ingredient of modern living. Multhauf de-
scribes society’s tremendous efforts to obtain and use this sub-
stance which has affected spheres of activity ranging from politics
and trade to chemistry and geology. Lot’s wife and Taghaza, the
Saharan city purported to have been built of salt bricks, share the
pages of this history with technological discoveries and economic
developments.

Other book-length publications by the Museum’s staff include
The Common Press, by Curator Elizabeth Harris and Clinton Sis-
son of the University of Virginia, which for the first time provides
detailed plans and descriptions of “the common press, using the
Museum’s own Franklin Press as an example. Science in Culture:
The Early Victorian Period, by Susan Faye Cannon, discusses the
development and “professionalization” of science in the early nine-
teenth century; and Georg Scheutz and the First Printing Calcula-
tor, by Uta C. Merzbach, is one of the Smithsonian Studies in His-
tory and Technology, describing the life and times of the early
nineteenth-century publisher, who designed a machine to compute
tabular differences and print the results.

COLLECTIONS

Care and improvement of the collections was of major importance
to the Museum this year. Attention was focused particularly on
acquisitions, with Acting Director Otto Mayr’s decision to devote
the Museum’s unrestricted trust funds to the purpose of acquiring
important historical objects. Individual collections management
projects were carried on throughout the Museum, and long-range
planning in this area was a top priority.

Among the Museum’s acquisitions this year is the gown worn
by First Lady Rosalynn Carter to the Inaugural Ball on January
20, 1977. A gift from Mrs. Carter, the gown, which she wore also
at the ball celebrating her husband’s inauguration as Governor of
Georgia in 1971, is of blue chiffon with a matching full length coat,
gold shoes, and a gold leather purse.

History and Art / 157
The women’s history collection of the Division of Political His-
tory was strengthened by the acquisition of the symbolic torch
that was run, in November 1977, from Seneca Falls, New York,
to the National Women’s Conference in Houston, Texas, and by
the Declaration of Interdependence issued by women at a Philadel-
phia re-enactment of the Centennial protest, in July 1976.

Two fine examples of United States leather mitre caps of the
Revolutionary War period were purchased this year by the Divi-
sion of Military History. One was used by the Newport Light
Infantry, and the other is attributed to the 26th Massachusetts
Regiment of the Continental Line. An exceptionally fine suit of
English Pikeman Armor of the type used in America during the
early seventeenth century was also acquired by the division.

The Chase Manhattan Bank’s Money Museum Collection, pre-
sented to the Museum in January of this year, represents one of
the most significant additions to the numismatics collection ever
received. The Chase Manhattan collection is particularly strong in
primitive media of exchange, paper currencies, and historically
significant checks, as well as in important single items previously
not included in the Museum’s collections.

In May, the Museum was also fortunate to acquire by transfer
the Treasury Department’s collection of United States paper cur-
rencies, encompassing the vast majority of United States paper
money issued since 1861. The 808 pieces of the collection have a
face value of $578,365.79, and form a needed balance to the Mu-
seum’s collections of United States coins.

The Division of Mechanisms, a new Museum unit concerned
with timekeeping, kinematics, and automatic control has added
two important acquisitions to its collection relating to cybernetics
and automation. The first, a sixteenth-century automaton of a
monk, powered by a key-wound, spring-driven clockwork, is one
of only two automata of similar age and sophistication known to
exist. Now on exhibit with a film showing him in motion, the monk
was purportedly made for the Holy Roman Emperor Charles V
by an Italian mechanician, Juanelo Turiano. The other acquisition,
a modern descendant of such devices, is a one-armed, 3500-pound
industrial robot programmed to perform a sequence of manufac-
turing operations. Built about 1960, it is one of the first generation
of industrial robots ever made.

158 / Smithsonian Year 1978
The American College of Radiology’s donation of a comprehen-
sive collection of radiological instruments has substantially en-
riched the Medical Sciences Division, making the Museum collec-
tion of such instruments the most complete in the country. Another
highly important acquisition by this division was the first totally
mechanical human heart to be successfully implanted in man.
The historic operation was performed in 1969, by Dr. Denton A.
Cooley at the Texas Heart Institute in Houston.

In the area of cultural history, acquisitions ranged from the
original set furnishings of the television series All in the Family,
and the Gerwig Collection of 1200 handtools, both acquired for the
Division of Community Life, to the highly significant Remensnyder
Collection of 155 brass and copper objects dating from the eigh-
teenth and nineteenth century, the large majority of which bear
maker’s marks. This addition to the collections of the Division of
Domestic Life is a handsome complement to another acquisition
by the division—forty pieces of scrimshaw depicting whale hunts,
ships, harbor scenes, and portraits, some of which can be found on
display in the Hall of American Maritime Enterprise.

OTHER ACTIVITIES

This year, the sixth series in the Frank Nelson Doubleday Lectures
was dedicated to ‘The Human Mind” and featured four leading
authorities who have explored the nature and operation of the mind
—Dr. Roger W. Sperry, Professor Marvin Minsky, Dr. J. B. Rhine,
and Dr. Rollo May.

As the focus of a large variety of scholarly activities, the Museum
has continued this year to host meetings and symposia, present
lectures, and edit several important scholarly publications. In Oc-
tober 1977, the Society for the History of Technology, held its
20th annual meeting in the Museum, featuring four days of lec-
tures and other intellectual exchanges. In March 1978, the Museum
sponsored a three-day symposium on the rise of the American
system of manufacture, at which papers were presented by leading
scholars in the field, including Alfred D. Chandler of Harvard, the
recipient later in the year of a Pulitzer Prize. This year also marked
the end of Robert Multhauf’s third and final term as editor of ISIS,
the journal of the History of Science Society. For fifteen years
this publication, generally acknowledged as the most important in

History and Art / 159
Grover Cleveland, 1899, an oil-on-canvas painting by Anders Zorn, gift of the
Reverend Thomas G. Cleveland to the National Portrait Gallery. Dimensions:
48 by 36 inches. Accession Number 77.229.

its field, has been edited at the Museum by Dr. Multhauf, assisted
by Bernard Finn as Managing Editor.

Besides serving the scholarly community, the Museum has de-
veloped and maintained with the help of several hundred volun-
teers and docents countless other programs designed for the
benefit of the 6 million people who visit the Museum each year.
In October, the Division of Education and Visitor Information
opened its third “hands on” area, the Rehabilitation Discovery
Corner, featuring the prosthetic devices which aid the handicapped.
The Museum has also continued its highly successful film and
concert series, its holiday festivities, and other special efforts
directed toward the general public.

National Portrait Gallery

The enactment of Public Law 94209 in February 1976, enabling
the National Portrait Gallery to expand its collecting activities to
include photography, resulted in the establishment at the Gallery
of a Department of Photographs and the appointment of William F.
Stapp, formerly on the staffs of the Philadelphia and Princeton
museums, to head it. The first major exhibition in this field to be
organized by the Gallery, and three of the most outstanding photo-
graphic acquisitions made during the past year, will be cited below.

Inaugurated this year was a “Self-Portrait’’” Lecture Series, the
purpose of which is to invite individuals who have made significant
contributions to American life in various fields to speak at the
National Portrait Gallery. These talks are recorded and videotaped
for preservation at the Gallery. Speakers in the first series were
Harry Bridges, Lee Strasberg, Robert Moses, and Dr. Karl Men-
ninger.

During the past year, the Gallery mounted ten exhibitions, plus
special installations of selections from its print, drawing, and
photograph collections. The largest of these exhibitions were “The
TIME of Our Lives,” which consisted of original paintings, draw-
ings, sculptures, and photographs of 100 individuals who had ap-
peared on Time Magazine covers over the past two decades; and
“Facing the Light: Historic American Portrait Daguerreotypes,”

History and Art / 161
organized by Harold Francis Pfister of the Gallery’s staff, and ac-
companied by a full-scale catalogue by Mr. Pfister.

Among other exhibitions were ‘Instrument of the Lord,” about
Harriet Beecher Stowe; “Perry in Japan,” which was organized
around the original watercolors of the event by Peter Bernard
William Heine (who accompanied Perry), lent anonymously;
“Helen Keller and Anne Sullivan Macy,” which centered on the
Gallery’s life masks of these two individuals by Onorio Ruotolo,
along with material lent by the Alexander Graham Bell Association
for the Deaf; ‘“William Cullen Bryant,” which marked the 100th
anniversary of the poet’s death; “Jay Gould: Mephistopheles of
Wall Street,” which featured furniture and objects from Gould’s
home, Lyndhurst, a National Trust property; and “Adalbert Volck:
Fifth Column Artist,” which dealt with the work of the most no-
table artist-illustrator of the Confederacy. These shows were pre-
pared by Messrs. Frederick S. Voss and Michael L. Lawson of the
Gallery’s staff.

“Portrait of a New England Town,” a remarkable series of
murals depicting the inhabitants of Chatham on Cape Cod, done
by Alice Stallknecht during the 1930s and 1940s, also was ex-
hibited.

Two rooms, each given over to the work of an individual por-
traitist, were opened. One is devoted to ‘“The Sihouettes of Auguste
Edouart,” and consists of a cross section of a group of 348 silhou-
ettes Edouart did of Americans between 1839 and 1844, lent anony-
mously. A volume by Andrew Oliver, a member of the National
Portrait Gallery Commission, which reproduced the entire col-
lection together with biographical data on all the subjects, was
published for the Gallery by the University Press of Virginia with
a subvention from the Barra Foundation. The other room was oc-
casioned by the gift from Dr. Maury Leibovitz of twenty-five Jo
Davidson portrait sculptures (bringing the Gallery’s collection of
this artist’s work to a total of forty-three), and displays a selection
of these holdings. A catalogue was published to celebrate the
opening of the Davidson Room.

During the past year the Gallery added 248 portraits (not includ-
ing the Time collection, which will be discussed below), 192 by
purchase and 56 by gift. A handsome and significant self-portrait
by William Page, acquired by purchase, deserves special mention,

162 / Smithsonian Year 1978
as do three exceptional photographs from a large group of im-
portant images in that medium: daguerreotypes of Dorothea Dix
and Jefferson Davis and a particularly striking platinum print of
Thomas Eakins, probably by the artist’s wife, Susan Macdowell
Eakins. These three individuals heretofore were not represented
by life portraits in the Gallery’s permanent collection. Especially
noteworthy among likenesses added by gift were the great Anders
Zorn oil of President Grover Cleveland, presented by The Reverend
Thomas G. Cleveland (together with its companion of Frances
Folsom Cleveland donated by Mrs. Frances Payne) and a portrait
of John Jacob Astor by John Wesley Jarvis, given by Susan Mary
Alsop. Without this likeness, Astor might never have been repre-
sented in the Gallery in a fashion commensurate with his impor-
tance in American history. Among the twenty-five Jo Davidson
sculptures presented by Dr. Maury Leibovitz, perhaps the most
outstanding is the full-length terra cotta of Gertrude Stein. Another

Dorothea Lynde Dix, circa 1846, a daguerreotype by M. A. Root, was shown
in the National Portrait Gallery’s exhibit “Facing the Light: Historic American

Portrait Daguerreotypes.” Dimensions: 14 by 10.7 centimeters. Accession
Number 77.261.

History and Art / 163
Davidson which was added to the Gallery’s collection is a striking
terra cotta head of Senator George Norris, the acquisition of which
was made possible by Mr. and Mrs. James Louis Robertson and
Mr. John P. Robertson.

When the entire collection of original works for Time Magazine
covers has been received, it will number more than 900 items.
Although not all of the original works from the period encom-
passed by this gift were kept by Time and hence are not available to
the National Portrait Gallery, a very large number of significant in-
dividuals are represented. Worthy of special mention is the Pietro
Annigoni portrait of John F. Kennedy, which is one of only three
life portraits of the President. Among the noted artists whose
paintings and sculptures are included in the collection are: Boris
Artzybasheff, Ernest Hamlin Baker, Aaron Bohrod, Boris Chaliapin,
Frank Gallo, Peter Hurd, Jacob Lawrence, David Levine, Roy
Lichtenstein, Marisol, Alice Neel, Sidney Nolan, Robert Rauschen-
berg, Larry Rivers, and Jamie Wyeth.

The Catalog of American Portraits has commenced an eight-
year national survey of public and private collections in states not
already covered by previous fieldwork. This newly inaugurated
survey has been assisted by a grant of $325,000 from the Andrew
W. Mellon Foundation.

Office of American and Folklife Studies

The Office of American Studies continued its program in graduate
education throughout the year. The fall 1977 semester in Ma-
terial Aspects of American Civilization had as its theme “Com-
munication of Knowledge by Exhibits, Festivals, and Symposia.”
Taught by the Director of the Program and Professor Bernard
Mergen, of The George Washington University, the course had
thirty students.

Other seminars given during the academic year 1977-1978 in-
cluded: “The American Decorative Arts in Historic Preservation,”
taught by Barbara Carson; ‘“The Material Culture of Alexandria,
Virginia: 1770-1830,” taught by Dennis O’Toole, Curator of Edu-
cation of the National Portrait Gallery; ““Vernacular Architecture,”
taught by Howard W. Marshall, Folklife Specialist of the Library

164 / Smithsonian Year 1978
Lee Strasberg, actor and teacher

of acting, the second speaker in the
National Portrait Gallery’s “Self-
Portrait’ Lecture Series, February 13,
1978.

Gertrude Stein, 1923, full-length terra
cotta portrait sculpture by Jo David-
son, one of twenty-five David-

son sculptures presented to the Na-
tional Portrait Gallery by Dr. Maury
Leibovitz. Accession Number 78.195.

of Congress; “Introduction to Industrial Archaeology and Ma-
terial Culture,” taught by Dr. Lawrence Lankton of the Historic
American Engineering Survey; “Folklife in America” taught by
members of the Office of American and Folklife Studies of the
Smithsonian Institution; and “The Arts and Crafts Movement in
Architecture and Design,” taught by Dr. Cynthia Field.

As the Smithsonian program that focuses and coordinates the
Institution’s research in and presentation of contemporary folk cul-
tures, the Folklife Unit completed its second year since it was
established within the Office of American Studies under the direc-
tion of Ralph Rinzler. Consistent with its goals the Folklife Unit
planned, researched, and presented the eleventh annual Festival of
American Folklife, which included several folklife presentations
within exhibits of the Museum of History and Technology and the
Renwick Gallery.

The traditional outdoor component of the Festival was trans-
formed from a twelve-week, Bicentennial production model to a
six-day, museum-related event. Cooperative relationships with the
Music Performance Trust Fund were carried over to the 1977 and
1978 Festivals. A two-year relationship was established with the
Department of Energy. And, after a year’s hiatus, the National Park
Service resumed its co-sponsorship of the Festival in 1978.

The Folklife Unit through the efforts of the Office of Elementary
and Secondary Education augmented its academic programs by
direct involvement with District of Columbia public schools. Edu-
cational materials, including a pre-Festival printing of the Festival
program book, were distributed to teachers at seminars designed to
increase and to enrich District of Columbia area public school
participation in Festival activities.

On a college level, members of the Folklife Unit staff taught a
series of graduate and undergraduate courses for the Departments
of American Studies and Anthropology at The George Washington
University. ‘Introduction to Folklore” taught during several semes-
ters by Smithsonian staff folklorists, John Santino and Steven Zeit-
lin, met with faculty praise and high student enrollment. “Folklife
in the Modern World,” a graduate course which treated the in-
volvement of governmental and other large institutions in areas of
folklife, was organized and taught by the same folklorists. Both
courses involved, as guest lecturers, scholars from the Smithsonian,

166 / Smithsonian Year 1978
Mrs. Katherine Geraci, a former teacher at the Dunham School, demonstrates her

teaching methods during the 1977 Festival of American Folklife in the Dunham
School classroom in “Nation of Nations” exhibit in the National Museum of History
and Technology. Below. Also at the Festival were Joseph Muchnick, Jacob Auerbach,
Lucy Nigro, and Tom Wakin, recounting their Ellis Island experiences for audiences
at the Nation of Nations program.

Reuben Oberholtzer, Henry Thomas, and Leander Hall unload wheat for the thresh-
ing demonstration at the energy exhibit at the 1977 Festival of American Folklife.

Below. Phipps Bourne, from Springvalley, Virginia, demonstrates the craft of the
blacksmith, attracting many Festival visitors in spite of the rain.

Library of Congress, and the National Endowment for the Arts’
Folk Arts Program.

Another area of institutional cooperation is a folklore research
and presentational project undertaken among several ethnic and
regional groups in Nevada under the combined auspices of the
American Folklife Center at the Library of Congress, the Folk Arts
Program at the National Endowment for the Arts, and the Smith-
sonian Folklife Unit.

Members of the Folklife Unit produced several studies, some of
which developed directly from Festival-related research and some of
which reflect long-standing research commitments. Among the for-
mer, two Ph.D. dissertations by Steven Zeitlin and John Santino
were completed and accepted by the Department of Folklore and
Folklife, University of Pennsylvania, in 1978, on the topics of fam-
ily folklore and occupational narrative, respectively. Festival-
generated research materials were at the center of a special issue of
the scholarly journal, Western Folklore. Edited by Smithsonian’s
Senior Folklorist, Dr. Robert Byington, and including contributions
by Dr. Roger Abrahams of the Smithsonian’s Folklife Advisory
Council, and Dr. Archie Green (a fellow of the Woodrow Wilson
Center), as well as articles by staff and former staff members of the
Unit, the special issue focused on occupational folklife, an area of
research and presentation in which the Smithsonian has been pre-
eminent since the Festival began its program ‘“Working Americans.”

Two films with accompanying monographs produced in 1978 in
the Folklife unit record technological processes among two Ameri-
can folk groups and indicate the social and cultural matrix that
surrounds them. The first film, entitled The Meaders Family, North
Georgia Potters, documents the rapidly disappearing technical proc-
esses of traditional Appalachian stoneware pottery production. The
second, entitled The Drummaker, records the ceremonial and tech-
nological steps in constructing a traditional Lac Court Oreilles
Chippewa drum.

The Festival archive, consisting of 4166 reels of magnetic tapes
recorded over ten years of Festivals, was catalogued and cross-
indexed.

In 1978, Dr. Robert Byington was obliged to retire because of ill
health. He was replaced on the staff by Dr. Peter Seitel, who serves
as the program’s Senior Folklorist.

History and Art / 169
From March 3-8, 1978, the Smithsonian’s Office of Horticulture presented two
major exhibitions at The Flower Show, sponsored by the D. C. Branch of the
Professional Grounds Management Society, featuring an award-winning Victor-
ian parterre (shown above), based on designs taken from Henderson's Pictur-
esque Gardens of 1906, and an educational exhibit on Victorian bedding designs.
Smithsonian Year - 1978

MUSEUM PROGRAMS

PAUL N. PERROT,
ASSISTANT SECRETARY FOR MUSEUM PROGRAMS

No ONE CAN DISPUTE the educational value of museums for contem-
porary society. We do not mean education in the traditional sense
of the term, exemplified by the classroom, but rather education in
its larger sense: providing to the alert and inquiring individual the
stimulation to sharpen his knowledge and broaden his perceptions
of the world around him by being exposed to the tactile reality of
past accomplishments, be they natural or man-made. This is educa-
tion independent of the strictures of time and which in the long run
has, possibly, the most lasting social value.

The role of museums in providing the environment and the sub-
stance that makes this type of education possible cannot be over-
estimated. For within their halls they bring to the abstract notions
of history, evolution, and art a three-dimensional reality. Were these
functions alone the focus of a museum’s activity, not only would
there be a major gap, but, without exaggeration, a betrayal of the
heavier responsibility that the museum has to the future. For the
museum, whatever be the focus of its collections, is to a great extent
the custodian of the tactile “truth” of the past and, perhaps, its
greatest responsibility is to develop methods to transmit this her-
itage not to the immediate, coming generation, but to a future ex-
tending indefinitely. Thus, the museum is both a today and a to-
morrow organization and one of the major dilemmas of the museum
administrator is to find a balance between these two responsibilities.
This dilemma is particularly acute for a set of museums that are
keepers of the nation’s national collections and, collectively, have
the largest number of visitations in the world.

171
During the great efflorescence of activities that preceded the Bi-
centennial year, a large portion of the Smithsonian staff focused its
efforts on meeting this contemporary need and opportunity. And
though the essentials of conservation and collection management
were by no means forgotten, the planning of new facilities, the
developments of new technologies, and the sharpening of collec-
tions management processes, played a secondary role.

Over the past two years these aspects have received increasing
attention on the part of those units of the Office of Museum Pro-
grams most directly concerned with them. The management of
collections, and the development of methods which will assure their
safekeeping while at the same time facilitating access to them for
study, contemplation, or repair have been increasingly focused
upon. A keystone to the success of this effort is the proposed
Museum Support Center, now authorized by the Congress, which
will be erected in Suitland, Maryland, starting in the latter part of
1980, and will be completed by the end of 1982. This facility, per-
haps unique in the museum world, will provide, for the first time,
an environment specifically designed for the compact storage and
easy retrieval of a vast part of the research collections of the Na-
tional Museum of Natural History. The facility will also provide an
opportunity for the Institution to expand greatly its conservation
effort and, in the process, share its knowledge more broadly with
members of its own staff and with students in conservation, who
will be taking courses and interning there.

The time is long past when any responsible museum manager can
say, with any degree of assurance, that the collections in his care
are stabilized. Objects are matter and matter has a life span. This
span can be shortened or lengthened depending upon the condi-
tions under which the objects are housed. It is now the first priority
of the Institution to develop optimum environmental conditions for
the objects in its custody.

Connected with this is the development of new inventory pro-
cedures, facilitated by advanced information technology and based
upon the most careful consideration of scholarly, administrative, and
legal needs. These aspects have also received major attention, par-
ticularly during the past twelve months. New methods have been
initiated, which, combined with the Institution’s drive to prepare
for the removal of major parts of its research collections to the new

172 / Smithsonian Year 1978
facility at Suitland, will have far ranging effects and, we trust, will
provide models from which others faced with similar problems may
benefit. Several registrarial committees were formed during the year
to identify specific problems. One is attempting to quantify the
conservation needs of the Institution’s collections. Another is seek-
ing to identify collections of objects which might be located in non-
collecting research bureaus and departments. A third will review
existing policies and make recommendations for revisions or new
approaches.

During the year, an analysis of the conservation programs of the
Institution was initiated, with particular attention being given to
the Conservation Analytical Laboratory, to the relationship of the
Laboratory with the other laboratories of the Institution, and to the
extension of training activities in the new Support Center. To
develop greater pan-Institution conservation coordination, and to
identify more readily the gaps in existing programs, the Conserva-
tion Council was reactivated. It includes representatives of all the
conservation laboratories and of those curatorial departments which
have conservation expertise.

Conservation and research in the nature of materials, their
sources, and the methods used in their production and shaping are
intimately related. Archaeometric studies which extend the grasp
of curatorial analysis have been intensified through work at the
Conservation Analytical Laboratory proper and in cooperation with
colleagues, through the recent access to the equipment and staff of
the National Bureau of Standards and the Brookhaven National
Laboratory. Results of these cooperative programs have been re-
warding and these programs will receive increased priority in the
years ahead.

The rare book collections, which are integral to an understanding
of major parts of the collections of the National Museum of Natural
History, among others, are also being attended to with renewed
vigor. An active program to identify those volumes in need of con-
servation has been undertaken and work has been progressing in a
recently established laboratory especially devoted to this purpose.

Volumes and series from the latter part of the nineteenth cen-
tury, published on unstable paper and whose existence can no
longer be assured owing to their brittle condition, are being copied
on microfilm or microfiche.

Museum Programs / 173
The flood of new publications and reports, and a scholarly com-
munity increasingly overwhelmed by the masses of new data and
interpretations issued in this country and abroad, has required new
or refined approaches to library management. During the year the
Libraries have strengthened their Entry Data Processing (EDP) pro-
cedures, and, particularly, sought ways to minimize the impact of
the forthcoming discontinuance of the Library of Congress cata-
logue.

Some years ago the Institution’s archival records—that is, those
records pertaining to its own history, activities, and relationships
with other research organizations—were, if not in a state of dis-
array, to a great extent unorganized and uninventoried. Over the
past few years major headway has been made to gain intellectual
access and control over this material, and plans have been devel-
oped so that each museum and major unit in the Institution has a
clearly identified archival program. An outward manifestation of
this effort has been the publication of the Guide to the Smithsonian
Institution Archives, a major compendium that, for the first time,
identifies the location of data important for an understanding of the
history of the Institution, and of its role in the growth of scientific
inquiry in this country.

Conservation, organization, and transmission are key words for
the units mentioned above. They are also vital for the Office of
Horticulture which, over the past few years, has introduced into
the Institution the concept of horticulture as an art and historical
form as opposed to being mere grounds management. The Institu-
tion’s greenhouses now shelter vast numbers of species, some on
the endangered lists, such as certain varieties of orchids, which, in
a parallel fashion to the Front Royal extension of the National Zoo,
are being propagated to ensure their transmission to future genera-
tions.

The Office of Horticulture is also embarking on scholarly activi-
ties that will lead to publications particularly relating to develop-
ments in the Victorian era, a period that has been under intense
study partly because of the creation of the Victorian Garden in the
south quadrangle of the Smithsonian Institution Building and the
development of the 1876 Exhibition in the Arts and Industries
Building. |

174 / Smithsonian Year 1978
As in years past, the efforts of the Office of Exhibits Central
(orc) have buttressed the exhibit programs of the separate design
and production units of the Institution’s several museums. oc has
continued to provide excellence in graphics. Its design and con-
struction facilities have been major suppliers to the Smithsonian
Institution Traveling Exhibition Service (sites). The latter has con-
tinued to build upon the great following developed during the Bi-
centennial years. The exhibitions that were generated then are
continuing to circulate and new ones, particularly from foreign
countries, are being developed to further enrich the program. The
groundwork is being laid for the eventual extension of sires abroad,
a step that is indispensable if the Institution is to continue to re-
ceive, as it has in the past, contributions from foreign institutions.
Reciprocity and cooperation are key elements for the flourishing of
such programs and it is hoped, in time, that the Institution can
play a role in supplying museums abroad with certain facets of
America’s experience, whether historical, artistic, or scientific.

Services to the profession-at-large have not been ignored. The
National Museum Act Program has further refined its guidelines,
carefully studied its constituency, and striven to cooperate, as fully
as possible, with other funding organizations and particularly the
National Endowments, the National Science Foundation, and the
newly formed Institute of Museum Services so that the resources of
each could be used to best advantage. Professional enhancement,
research in museum matters, conservation, and, particularly, train-
ing in the special skills of the conservator have been major priori-
ties for the National Museum Act. Efforts will be made, as they
have in the past, to avoid duplication and to provide prompt advice
and funding to applicants.

The Office of Museum Programs has developed, on a regular
basis, a series of workshops relating to various aspects of museum
management. These are in constant demand and have been at-
tended by museum professionals from every part of the country. A
new program in the series has been developed specifically designed
to meet the needs of Native American communities. The first of
this series of seminars and workshops was held in Washington and
consultations here and elsewhere are leading to the development of
cooperative programs on or near tribal areas.

Museum Programs / 175
