he

A
VO tive
iP

BOSTON PUBLIC LIBRARY

hii

3 9999 06317

te lieieaeas yew
RH TEE eM aa

wae,
cite
hs

:
Ey

Tora
wy Aphastages Nah
tye

TPS en vest

Sakae

Ci phatan
aaa

SiARretasgsasscyietine se rere eae
Sa tas era atataty rN septa ay

eae Ce este

Felytgty®

a a eat a

LESH yg igtamare cee
oar er Ne Bet
Pace ene

ease siamese ale DE rca a aa

esters!
saawcraiberas
Ss aaa

zt
ate
Setoskeene

: was
Peri tase tiieeos
sites ysarecanicucesy
‘ { i 4 f resezeniva se ON TOM
ie eeails A : : vicntiy Se
i me aby seen ove nacre
eRe : psersmecy
pe : Fed terazanicoomucece tates
Suet eset Basile’ i Gee : “ateewey tensa)
eatiee akee 8 ( a

bub decals be
Caner

Orie
sterteyriry
eet ny
Seka ob
said

re

apt:

BOSTON

Way

Bhd Sau

fy
et

hi aaivnete, Tt) Gages '¢

a)

en ae

wee

=i

National Museum of Natural History, as viewed between the Castle (/eft) and the Arts and Industries Building.

Smithsonian Year 1985

Annual Report of the Smithsonian Institution For the Year Ended September 30, 1985

Smithsonian Institution Press, City of Washington, 1986
Shah Tahmasp Reading, a drawing by Mir Sayyid Ali, Iran, Tabriz, circa 1530-1540, is among the works of Islamic art in the Vever
Collection, an enormously significant acquisition by the Smithsonian Institution for the Arthur M. Sackler Gallery.
Contents

The Smithsonian Institution 7 Public Service 143
Establishment, Board of Regents, Executive Office of Elementary and Secondary Education 144
Committee, and the Secretary 8 Office of Folklife Programs 145

Office of Public Affairs 146

Office of Smithsonian Symposia and Seminars 148

Office of Telecommunications 150

Smithsonian Institution Press 151

Smithsonian Magazine 152

Visitor Information and Associates’ Reception Center 153

Statement by the Secretary 9
Report of the Board of Regents 30
Financial Report 32

Science 61
National Air and Space Museum 62
National Museum of Natural History 68
National Zoological Park 74 Administration 155

Office of Fellowships and Grants 80 Administrative and Support Activities 156
Smithsonian Institution Women’s Council 159

Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory 82
Smithsonian Internship Council 159

Smithsonian Environmental Research Center 89
Smithsonian Office of Educational Research 93

Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute 94
Directorate of International Activities 161

History and Art ro1
Anacostia Neighborhood Museum 102
Archives of American Art 103 Office of Development 164
Center for Asian Art: Freer Gallery of Art and National Board of the Smithsonian Associates 165
Arthur M. Sackler Gallery 104 Women’s Committee of the Smithsonian Associates 165
James Smithson Society 166
Smithsonian National Associate Program 167
Smithsonian Resident Associate Program 171

Membership and Development 163

Cooper-Hewitt Museum 105

Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden 107
Joseph Henry Papers 109

National Museum of African Art 110
National Museum of American Art 112
National Museum of American History 114
National Portrait Gallery 121

Office of American Studies 123

Under Separate Boards of Trustees 175
Reading Is Fundamental, Inc. 176
Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars 178
John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts 180

Museum Programs 125 National Gallery of Art 186

Conservation Analytical Laboratory 126

National Museum Act Programs 128

Office of Exhibits Central 128

Office of Horticulture 130

Office of Museum Programs 131

Office of the Registrar 133

Smithsonian Institution Archives 134

Smithsonian Institution Libraries 137

Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service 139
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

The Smithsonian Institution was created by act of Con-
gress in 1846 in accordance with the terms of the will of
James Smithson of England, who in 1826 bequeathed his
property to the United States of America “to found at
Washington, under the name of the Smithsonian Institu-
tion, an establishment for the increase and diffusion of
knowledge among men.” After receiving the property and
accepting the trust, Congress incorporated the Institution
in an “establishment,” whose statutory members are the
President, the Vice President, the Chief Justice, and the
heads of the executive departments, and vested responsi-
bility for administering the trust in the Smithsonian Board
of Regents.
The Establishment

Ronald W. Reagan, President of the United States

George H. W. Bush, Vice President of the United States

Warren E. Burger, Chief Justice of the United States

George P. Shultz, Secretary of State

James A. Baker III, Secretary of the Treasury

Caspar W. Weinberger, Secretary of Defense

Edwin Meese III, Attorney General

Donald P. Hodel, Secretary of the Interior

John R. Block, Secretary of Agriculture

Malcolm Baldrige, Secretary of Commerce

William E. Brock, Secretary of Labor

Margaret M. Heckler, Secretary of Health and Human
Services

Samuel R. Pierce, Jr., Secretary of Housing and Urban
Development

Elizabeth H. Dole, Secretary of Transportation

William J. Bennett, Secretary of Education

John S. Herrington, Secretary of Energy

Board of Regents

Warren E. Burger, Chief Justice of the United States,
ex officio, Chancellor
George H. W. Bush, Vice President of the United States, ex
officio
Edwin J. (Jake) Garn, Senator from Utah
Barry Goldwater, Senator from Arizona
James R. Sasser, Senator from Tennessee
Edward P. Boland, Representative from Massachusetts
Silvio O. Conte, Representative from Massachusetts
Norman Y. Mineta, Representative from California
David C. Acheson, citizen of the District of Columbia
Anne L. Armstrong, citizen of Texas
William G. Bowen, citizen of New Jersey
Jeannine Smith Clark, citizen of the District of Columbia
Murray Gell-Mann, citizen of California
A. Leon Higginbotham, Jr., citizen of Pennsylvania
Carlisle H. Humelsine, citizen of Virginia
Samuel C. Johnson, citizen of Wisconsin
Barnabas McHenry, citizen of New York

Executive Committee

Warren E. Burger, Chancellor
David C. Acheson

Samuel C. Johnson

Carlisle H. Humelsine (Chairman)

The Secretary
Robert McCormick Adams

Dean W. Anderson, Under Secretary and Acting Assistant
Secretary for History and Art

David Challinor, Assistant Secretary for Science

Joseph Coudon, Special Assistant to the Secretary

Margaret C. Gaynor, Congressional Liaison

James M. Hobbins, Executive Assistant to the Secretary

John F. Jameson, Assistant Secretary for Administration

Ann R. Leven, Treasurer

Peter G. Powers, General Counsel

John E. Reinhardt, Director, Directorate of International
Activities

William N. Richards, Acting Assistant Secretary for
Museum Programs

Ralph C. Rinzler, Assistant Secretary for Public Service

James McK. Symington, Director, Office of Membership
and Development

Statement by the Secretary

Robert McC. Adams

In our own time a tide of progressively greater complexity
has carried us very far indeed into an almost endless archi-
pelago of specialization. Most scholars and scientists have
become accustomed to living professionally on very small
islands, content with some knowledge of a few neighbor-
ing islands and with only a very small scale and approxi-
mate sense of what may lie beyond. But the narrowing
range of individual adventurousness and expertise—
contrasting with the vast geographic extensions that are
almost routinely possible in our movements—is a rela-
tively recent phenomenon. Quite different conditions pre-
vailed not only during the Renaissance and earlier, were
reaffirmed in the Enlightenment, and substantially out-
lasted the age of Jefferson.

Large-scale, quasi-industrial production of new knowIl-
edge was perhaps the key objective in this reduction of
intellectual range and intensified emphasis on specializa-
tion. Great museum and research laboratory complexes
like the Smithsonian, not to speak of our major universi-
ties, have become its major embodiment. Through them
there has been an ongoing transformation in both our
understanding of and our control over the conditions of
our existence.

There is no reason to cast doubt upon this marvellously
self-generating expansion in our horizons of directed
thought and action. Prolonged, devoted specialization has
proved to be a necessary condition for most aspects of
scholarly and scientific advance. But just as we have
gained from the coexistence of a variety of institutional
forms, we should resist lockstep uniformity in a march
toward specialization. There is nothing whatever to gain
from excesses that go beyond bringing the necessary
resources to bear on particular problems, maintaining
institutional and disciplinary barriers for their own sake.
On the contrary, greater effort should be devoted to
themes that crosscut or transcend our usual disciplinary
and institutional structures.

Alfred Kroeber long ago noted that creative achieve-
ments have tended to occur in historic clusterings, extend-
ing simultaneously into literary, philosophical, scientific,
technological, and artistic realms. That argues for the
importance of mutual stimulation among those responsi-
ble for them, as well as for the broadly encouraging influ-
ence of a supportive social context. Further contradicting
the idea of an inexorable growth in specialization, at least
some of these clusterings were also characterized by wid-
ened horizons of individual accomplishment.

The first great impulse toward specialization could well
be one example. Marked by the birth of cities, the intro-
duction of writing, a burst of technical virtuosity in the

crafts, and the state-supported growth of priestly and
bureaucratic cadres, it was a time for which our knowl-
edge of individuals is admittedly very limited. One of them
was Imhotep, minister to an Egyptian pharaoh during the
initial flowering of Old Kingdom civilization. His reputa-
tion for numinous powers was joined much later with that
of the Greek god Asclepius, still our patron of medicine.
Imhotep’s long recitation of his impressive administrative
titles and achievements was followed with two other skills
or attributes: carpenter and sculptor. The association is
strange to modern eyes, but surely reflects qualifications or
accomplishments that in his time were reckoned to belong
together. Such breadth later disappears from Egyptian
records.

Thales of Miletus, at the outset of the next great creative
burst of which we are aware, is another such example.
Noted as a philosopher and mathematician, he was also a
practical statesman and navigator. Reportedly he foretold
an eclipse (perhaps with the aid of a Babylonian astronom-
ical table), and was a sufficiently canny speculator to have
cornered the olive oil market. In contrast with earlier cen-
turies of prevailing anonymity, numerous Greeks like
Thales left a permanent stamp as recognizable individuals
whose creativity affected everything around them. In being
the first substantial group to sign or otherwise take or be
given credit for their own works, they display a concern
for their place in and contribution to the stream of
recorded time and achievement. “A sense of history” is, of
course, Greek in its first general appearance.

The historian Carlo Cipolla has sketched a vital, if little
understood, medieval transition that bridged the long pas-
sage from late antiquity to the Renaissance. It involves the
cult of the saints, which cloaked the changing bounds of
human aspiration in religious metaphor. This, he believes,
contributed to slowly emerging but in the end decisive dif-
ferences between the two eras:

The saints did not take their ease in the hieratic immo-
bility of the oriental holymen, nor did they amuse them-
selves like the Greek gods by punishing men for their
audacity. On the contrary, they were always at work to
overcome the adverse forces of nature: they defeated dis-
eases, calmed stormy seas, saved the harvests from
storms and locusts, softened the fall for whoever lept
into a ravine, stopped fires, made the drowning float,
and guided ships in danger. The saints practiced what
the commoners dreamed: they harnessed nature and, far
from being condemned for doing so, they lived pleas-
antly in Paradise in the company of God. Harnessing
nature was not regarded as a sin; it was a miracle.
The next great cluster coincided with the general uncoil-
ing of energies at the outset of the Renaissance. Once
again the technical, the scientific, and the artistic joined,
or at least overlapped, in ways that for modern tastes are
disconcerting: Leonardo, the “divine” Michelangelo,
Copernicus, Galileo. There was intense interest in the
crafts on the part of the founders of the Royal Society. Yet
this was not merely a cyclical return of the earlier pattern.
Prefigured by the cult of the saints, essentially human arti-
fices now appeared as a kind of Gestalt for the universe
itself. Cipolla, David Landes, and others have written of
the obsession of many major Renaissance figures with
machinery, and especially with clockwork. Johannes
Kepler, for example, expressed it as his aim “to show that
the celestial machine is not to be likened to a divine organ-
ism but rather to a clockwork,” and Robert Boyle, too,
directly likened the universe to “a great piece of clock-
work.”

I need not recount later such clusterings. The intervals
separating them grew shorter and shorter, and of course
more and more is known of the individuals in them. At
least in the case of science and technology, transformative
contributions in a succession of different fields may have
become so numerous that they form an almost uninter-
rupted series. But in the meantime, what had been during
those earlier creative bursts a closely linked and mutually
informing set of traditions, spanning all knowledge and
creative endeavor, dispersed itself into separate compart-
ments that devote little effort to communicating with or
reinforcing one another. Representative, major figures like
an Einstein, an Edison, and a Picasso clearly would have
had little to say to one another already by the beginning of
the twentieth century.

At a deeper level, however, it is not at all clear that crea-
tivity itself has had to take fundamentally different forms
as fields have diversified and become isolated from one
another. To be sure, some historians of science like
Thomas Khun hold that processes of scientific discovery
are unique, distinctively different from achievements in the
arts or, perhaps, even in technology. But an at least equally
plausible case can be made that neither the methods nor
the intellectual and physical products of the sciences and
the arts can truly be distinguished from one another. And
at least until the last generation or two, there were major
features of the underlying support systems that were
largely held in common by the sciences and the humani-
ties.

Private patronage, for example, remained a vital ele-
ment until fairly recently. It had taken new forms during
the Renaissance. Princely families or clerical institutions of

Io

great wealth supported men of learning or artistic achieve-
ment in their retinues. No doubt they were at least partly
promoting their own social and political objectives, but
the course they chose also discouraged the mutual isola-
tion of specialists from one another and promoted new
and broader forms of interaction. Gradually patronage
evolved further still, the drawbacks of personal depen-
dency without recourse being steadily moderated as
greatly enlarged landed and entrepreneurial elites joined
the ranks of potential patrons. In most advanced countries
the state itself presently created specialized, semi-detached
organs to distribute a derived form of patronage more
equitably and widely. International as well as national
markets for creative works of many kinds simultaneously
assumed greater and greater prominence, as did corporate
sponsorship. Above all, there arose more or less perpetu-
ally endowed and hence relatively independent institutions
capable of providing support, detachment, facilities, the
stimulus of students and colleagues, and the assurances of
continuity on which planning for life-long careers could be
premised.

But let me return to an earlier stage in this process. There
is a little-noticed difference between our usage of the
word, science, and French science, German Wissenschaft,
Russian nauka, or the original Latin scientia. All the latter
are vastly more inclusive, embracing all knowledge. Why
is English different?

During the Middle Ages, and even later, the English
word had the same broad connotation. The seven (liberal)
sciences then were often used synonymously with the seven
liberal arts to cover all the formally constituted fields of
learning: grammar, logic, rhetoric, arithmetic, music,
geometry, and astronomy. Music and mathematics were
still “these sciences” in Shakespeare’s Taming of the Shrew.
Only later, in the seventeenth century, did a contradistinc-
tion of science from art begin to emerge, separating theo-
retical truths and conscious, systematic applications of
principles from traditional rules or skills that were applied
by habit. Later still, well into the eighteenth century, sci-
ence first came to designate a branch of study resting on an
integrated body of observed regularities. And only toward
the end of the nineteenth century did the modern tendency
to apply the term especially to the natural sciences make its
appearance.

Robert McC. Adams, Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution
(Photograph by Chad Slattery)

II
This late and slow path of divergence suggests that the
seventeenth century was a kind of watershed, a break in
what until then had been a common pattern that, once
begun, tended to widen further. Much attention has been
devoted by historians to essentially the same watershed. In
my reading of that work, a sense of tension or mutual
antipathy between two major groups of scholars and intel-
lectuals is apparent, perhaps more widely and strongly felt
in England than elsewhere in Europe. On one side were
those involved in traditional fields of learning that we now
would recognize as the humanities. On the other were the
epochal figures we now regard as responsible for the birth
of the natural sciences in their modern form. But as is
shown convincingly by Charles Webster’s demonstration
of the generality of the idea of a rebirth of knowledge per-
mitting man’s dominion over nature, and by Barbara Sha-
piro’s somewhat similar work on the simultaneous
appearance of new distinctions between probability and
certainty in science, history, religion, law, and literature,
the lines were by no means so clear at the time. Allied with
the natural scientists, or natural philosophers as they were
then known, were far greater numbers of people whom
today we would not regard as scientists at all. These were
practical men concerned with improving education, sur-
veying, husbandry, economic and monetary theory, and,
not least, the reformation of the church.

The real differences were not so much between science
and the humanities as subject matter, as between attitudes
and personal commitments. The Baconians argued for not
merely the mutability but the transformation of knowledge
through consciously applied human agency. Today we may
be puzzled at the enormous, and in some respects clearly
diversionary if not counterproductive, influence of Bacon’s
unwavering empiricism, of his demand for “minds washed
clean from opinion to study [nature] in purity and integ-
rity.” But in its time it symbolized the strong and wide-
spread hostility that had developed toward the received
and static corpus of classical learning that still held much
of humanistic scholarship in its grip.

There is no such mutual antipathy today, but the indif-
ference that has replaced it may be almost as damaging.
Science, it seems reasonable to conclude, and even to cele-
brate, is the driving intellectual if not social force of our
age. Its content, to be sure, is not readily comprehendible
with the traditional equipment of the humanist. But the
natural sciences are by no means as monolithic and impen-
etrable as humanists too often assume. Moreover, the
striking growth of the history of science as a discipline has
shown that, viewed as an alternate career path rather than
a short-term project, a measure of scientific specialization

I2

can be an attractive challenge rather than a permanent
deterrent to at least some humanists.

Within the sciences themselves, the diversity is huge.
There is, as is well known, the timeless, elegant parsimony
of fundamental particle physics. But there are also inher-
ently complex, descriptive sciences such as systematic biol-
ogy. Others, like meteorology, are only beginning to attain
a useful level of long-range predictability. Still others are
currently undergoing real but narrow breakthroughs.
These may unify our understanding of limited sets of phe-
nomena, but they leave regularities and rough empiricism
coexisting in an uneasy equilibrium. Of the striking
advance in plate tectonics over the last two decades or so,
for example, Frank Richter has written that

It is only approximately true, not equally applicable
everywhere, and not capable of being modified so as to
account for those regions where it fails. It contains no
reference to the laws of motion even though it describes
motion. Yet it is scientific and revolutionary in that it
provides a whole new framework for discussing, and in
some cases resolving, problems involving large-scale
geological processes.

Too commonly, physics is taken as the paradigmatic case
for all the sciences. This leads to a “Two Cultures”-like
sense of resignation over the apparent hopelessness of the
polar opposition between the humanities and science as an
undifferentiated whole, rather than to a more positive rec-
ognition of the many continuities that exist. Here is
Stephen Jay Gould, an evolutionary biologist (and member
of the Smithsonian Council) in whose approach one would
hope humanists could identify important commonalities
on the subject:

The Nobel prizes focus on quantitative, nonhistorical,
deductively oriented fields with their methodology of
perturbation by experiment and establishment of repeat-
able chains of relatively simple cause and effect. An
entire set of disciplines, different though equal in scope
and status, but often subjected to ridicule because they
do not follow this pathway of “hard” science, is thereby
ignored: the historical sciences, treating immensely com-
plex and nonrepeatable events and therefore eschewing
prediction while seeking explanation for what has hap-
pened, and using the methods of observation and com-
parison.

There are, in short, complementarities in approach and
outlook between important parts of the sciences and the

jaumanities, complementarities of which humanists cannot
jafford to remain ignorant. Similarly, there is a growing
jamount of suggestive work focusing on the creative
jorocess; on the cognitive and symbolic aspects of pattern
j-ecognition and discovery; on the intellectual and social
‘prganization of disciplines; on the blurring of disciplinary
“oundaries; and on the history of development of fields as
Hisparate as science and art. Such work persuasively calls
jittention to these continuities. To what extent, then, are
humanists and scientists really breeds apart? Should it not
»e the mission of the humanities to embrace and interpret
he world, and our place in it, as even its scientific dimen-
'}ions impinge on the human condition, rather than to
) laim and defend any exclusive territory?

In an earlier age of comparably extraordinary scientific
dvance, Locke rubbed shoulders with Newton, Hooke,
nd Boyle in the Royal Society. Bacon, although he ener-
ized the great experimentalists of those days, was essen-
ially a philosopher. In our times, I have the impression
hat there is significantly greater willingness on the part of
cientists to reach out into and explore the humanities
han one can find among their humanistic counterparts to
ridge existing disjunctions from the opposite direction.

My point is to urge the importance of averting the drift

“Jato a defensive and exclusionary pattern of thought on
he part of those especially concerned with the arts and
umanities. This is not to deny that the humanities may
‘ll deed be in some jeopardy and need defending. But they
“| vill be better served by bold and ecumenical forays
irected at new challenges and problems, disregarding all
“he usual boundaries and addressing the humanistic impli-
“ations of all knowledge, than by pulling up the draw-
‘ Jridges and narrowly defending the received structures of
the past.

)Ay own perspective has been largely shaped by long asso-
jiation with a research university, where my collegial ties
"Were divided between the humanities and the social sci-
tnces. Having left that setting for the Smithsonian not
jnuch more than a year ago, I am particularly conscious of
lne differences in programmatic content as well as form
nat I now find are associated with public museums. Most
) bvious, particularly in contrast with the spirit of public
Be ivccient that surrounds the Smithsonian, is the fact
jnat universities form an encapsulating and protective soci-
ity of their own. Colleagues communicate with their peers
}lsewhere, within a limited and self-selected, if often geo-
jraphically dispersed, sphere of discourse that—especially
dja the case of the humanities—often provides the greater
Jart of its critics as well as audience. Public museums, by

ge tay rss peetareant saan caver ee

contrast, must relate to a wider constituency whose
demands, and whose access, involve no common accep-
tance of the principles governing membership in university
communities.

There are, of course, many instances in which museums
and universities are directly combined into a single institu-
tion. But when they are, I believe the relationship always
tends to be asymmetrical. Museums are subordinated to
universities, rather than vice versa. Further, universities do
not set aside resources for great, general museums but only
for smaller, more specialized ones. To be sure, the best of
them—the University Museum of the University of Penn-
sylvania, for example

maintain some degree of formal
autonomy of program. But since the senior curatorial
staffs are largely or completely composed of members of
the parent university faculty, the objectives such museums
serve are largely those of the traditional academic disci-
plines. They are primarily handmaidens of scholarly
inquiry, in other words, rather than instruments of either
research or education in their own right. Such a characteri-
zation Is not pejorative. But it does suggest that most
university-affiliated museums are best considered as
adjuncts of universities rather than as representative of
museums more generally.

So let us turn instead to some of the characteristics that
distinguish public museums as a class. As befits the year in
which we celebrate the 75th anniversary of the National
Museum of Natural History, I will first concentrate on the
field of natural history and later move on to history and
the arts.

Because the quality of systematics research depends to a
considerable extent on the size of the collections that are
available, natural history museums have tended to give
primary attention to collections and their management,
and to be correspondingly less involved with laboratory-
based or theoretical studies. They do traditionally empha-
size, and their structure encourages, working in the
field—the living laboratory—primarily with observational
but increasingly also with manipulative studies. But it is
probably fair to say that their primary concerns are to
describe and conserve, rather than to test or manipulate.

Museum collections, and the exhibits representing
them, have many of the qualities of capital investments.
Prudently assembled, they can almost endlessly repay fur-
ther study from viewpoints beyond the imagination of
those initially responsible for them. But such prudence can
seldom be indefinitely maintained. And even if it were, the
sheer mass of a major collection (much of it usually still
awaiting detailed study) tends to freeze curatorial atten-
tion within preexisting molds. The comprehensiveness of a

13

aes ra anaes 4 o:tiac?

This late and slow path of divergence suggests that the
seventeenth century was a kind of watershed, a break in
what until then had been a common pattern that, once
begun, tended to widen further. Much attention has been
devoted by historians to essentially the same watershed. In
my reading of that work, a sense of tension or mutual
antipathy between two major groups of scholars and intel-
lectuals is apparent, perhaps more widely and strongly felt
in England than elsewhere in Europe. On one side were
those involved in traditional fields of learning that we now
would recognize as the humanities. On the other were the
epochal figures we now regard as responsible for the birth
of the natural sciences in their modern form. But as is
shown convincingly by Charles Webster’s demonstration
of the generality of the idea of a rebirth of knowledge per-
mitting man’s dominion over nature, and by Barbara Sha-
piro’s somewhat similar work on the simultaneous
appearance of new distinctions between probability and
certainty in science, history, religion, law, and literature,
the lines were by no means so clear at the time. Allied with
the natural scientists, or natural philosophers as they were
then known, were far greater numbers of people whom
today we would not regard as scientists at all. These were
practical men concerned with improving education, sur-
veying, husbandry, economic and monetary theory, and,
not least, the reformation of the church.

The real differences were not so much between science
and the humanities as subject matter, as between attitudes
and personal commitments. The Baconians argued for not
merely the mutability but the transformation of knowledge
through consciously applied human agency. Today we may
be puzzled at the enormous, and in some respects clearly
diversionary if not counterproductive, influence of Bacon’s
unwavering empiricism, of his demand for “minds washed
clean from opinion to study [nature] in purity and integ-
rity.” But in its time it symbolized the strong and wide-
spread hostility that had developed toward the received
and static corpus of classical learning that still held much
of humanistic scholarship in its grip.

There is no such mutual antipathy today, but the indif-
ference that has replaced it may be almost as damaging.
Science, it seems reasonable to conclude, and even to cele-
brate, is the driving intellectual if not social force of our
age. Its content, to be sure, is not readily comprehendible
with the traditional equipment of the humanist. But the
natural sciences are by no means as monolithic and impen-
etrable as humanists too often assume. Moreover, the
striking growth of the history of science as a discipline has
shown that, viewed as an alternate career path rather than
a short-term project, a measure of scientific specialization

can be an attractive challenge rather than a permanent
deterrent to at least some humanists.

Within the sciences themselves, the diversity is huge.
There is, as is well known, the timeless, elegant parsimom
of fundamental particle physics. But there are also inher-
ently complex, descriptive sciences such as systematic biol
ogy. Others, like meteorology, are only beginning to attair
a useful level of long-range predictability. Still others are
currently undergoing real but narrow breakthroughs.
These may unify our understanding of limited sets of phe-
nomena, but they leave regularities and rough empiricism
coexisting in an uneasy equilibrium. Of the striking
advance in plate tectonics over the last two decades or so,
for example, Frank Richter has written that

It is only approximately true, not equally applicable
everywhere, and not capable of being modified so as to
account for those regions where it fails. It contains no
reference to the laws of motion even though it describe:
motion. Yet it is scientific and revolutionary in that it
provides a whole new framework for discussing, and 11
some cases resolving, problems involving large-scale
geological processes.

Too commonly, physics is taken as the paradigmatic ca:
for all the sciences. This leads to a “Two Cultures”-like
sense of resignation over the apparent hopelessness of the
polar opposition between the humanities and science as a
undifferentiated whole, rather than to a more positive rec
ognition of the many continuities that exist. Here is
Stephen Jay Gould, an evolutionary biologist (and memb
of the Smithsonian Council) in whose approach one woul
hope humanists could identify important commonalities
on the subject:

The Nobel prizes focus on quantitative, nonhistorical,
deductively oriented fields with their methodology of
perturbation by experiment and establishment of repea
able chains of relatively simple cause and effect. An
entire set of disciplines, different though equal in scope
and status, but often subjected to ridicule because they
do not follow this pathway of “hard” science, is thereb
ignored: the historical sciences, treating immensely cor
plex and nonrepeatable events and therefore eschewing
prediction while seeking explanation for what has hap-
pened, and using the methods of observation and com-
parison.

There are, in short, complementarities in approach anc
outlook between important parts of the sciences and the

humanities, complementarities of which humanists cannot
afford to remain ignorant. Similarly, there is a growing
amount of suggestive work focusing on the creative
process; on the cognitive and symbolic aspects of pattern
recognition and discovery; on the intellectual and social
organization of disciplines; on the blurring of disciplinary
boundaries; and on the history of development of fields as
disparate as science and art. Such work persuasively calls
attention to these continuities. To what extent, then, are
humanists and scientists really breeds apart? Should it not
be the mission of the humanities to embrace and interpret
the world, and our place in it, as even its scientific dimen-
sions impinge on the human condition, rather than to
claim and defend any exclusive territory?

In an earlier age of comparably extraordinary scientific
advance, Locke rubbed shoulders with Newton, Hooke,
and Boyle in the Royal Society. Bacon, although he ener-
gized the great experimentalists of those days, was essen-
tially a philosopher. In our times, I have the impression
that there is significantly greater willingness on the part of
Scientists to reach out into and explore the humanities
than one can find among their humanistic counterparts to
bridge existing disjunctions from the opposite direction.

My point is to urge the importance of averting the drift
into a defensive and exclusionary pattern of thought on
the part of those especially concerned with the arts and
humanities. This is not to deny that the humanities may
indeed be in some jeopardy and need defending. But they
will be better served by bold and ecumenical forays
directed at new challenges and problems, disregarding all
the usual boundaries and addressing the humanistic impli-
cations of all knowledge, than by pulling up the draw-
bridges and narrowly defending the received structures of
the past.

My own perspective has been largely shaped by long asso-
ciation with a research university, where my collegial ties
were divided between the humanities and the social sci-
ences. Having left that setting for the Smithsonian not
much more than a year ago, I am particularly conscious of
the differences in programmatic content as well as form
that I now find are associated with public museums. Most
obvious, particularly in contrast with the spirit of public
involvement that surrounds the Smithsonian, is the fact
that universities form an encapsulating and protective soci-
ety of their own. Colleagues communicate with their peers
elsewhere, within a limited and self-selected, if often geo-
graphically dispersed, sphere of discourse that—especially
in the case of the humanities—often provides the greater
part of its critics as well as audience. Public museums, by

contrast, must relate to a wider constituency whose
demands, and whose access, involve no common accep-
tance of the principles governing membership in university
communities.

There are, of course, many instances in which museums
and universities are directly combined into a single institu-
tion. But when they are, | believe the relationship always
tends to be asymmetrical. Museums are subordinated to
universities, rather than vice versa. Further, universities do
not set aside resources for great, general museums but only
for smaller, more specialized ones. To be sure, the best of
them—the University Museum of the University of Penn-
sylvania, for example—maintain some degree of formal
autonomy of program. But since the senior curatorial
staffs are largely or completely composed of members of
the parent university faculty, the objectives such museums
serve are largely those of the traditional academic disci-
plines. They are primarily handmaidens of scholarly
inquiry, in other words, rather than instruments of either
research or education in their own right. Such a characteri-
zation is not pejorative. But it does suggest that most
university-affiliated museums are best considered as
adjuncts of universities rather than as representative of
museums more generally.

So let us turn instead to some of the characteristics that
distinguish public museums as a class. As befits the year in
which we celebrate the 75th anniversary of the National
Museum of Natural History, I will first concentrate on the
field of natural history and later move on to history and
the arts.

Because the quality of systematics research depends to a
considerable extent on the size of the collections that are
available, natural history museums have tended to give
primary attention to collections and their management,
and to be correspondingly less involved with laboratory-
based or theoretical studies. They do traditionally empha-
size, and their structure encourages, working in the
field—the living laboratory—primarily with observational
but increasingly also with manipulative studies. But it is
probably fair to say that their primary concerns are to
describe and conserve, rather than to test or manipulate.

Museum collections, and the exhibits representing
them, have many of the qualities of capital investments.
Prudently assembled, they can almost endlessly repay fur-
ther study from viewpoints beyond the imagination of
those initially responsible for them. But such prudence can
seldom be indefinitely maintained. And even if it were, the
sheer mass of a major collection (much of it usually still
awaiting detailed study) tends to freeze curatorial atten-
tion within preexisting molds. The comprehensiveness of a

3,
collection, while greatly enhancing its importance as a
base for diversified research, therefore also has the poten-
tially perverse effect of slowing or distorting responses to
newly opened fields of knowledge.

Most museum departments in the life sciences still have
descriptive titles reflecting the basic principles of organiza-
tion of their collections, basically subdivisions of botany
and zoology. In universities such titles have largely disap-
peared or become specialized, subordinate components of
integrated departments of biology. The shift in university
practice reflects the truly transformative changes in biol-
ogy over the past generation or so that have stemmed pre-
ponderantly from molecular, genetic, and cellular
discoveries, or from health-related research in such fields
as immunology, endocrinology, and neurology. The
museum contribution to this work has been secondary,
and is likely to remain so. Somewhat detached from what
is currently the mainstream of biological discovery by their
continuing emphasis on the study of whole organisms, nat-
ural history museums risk becoming narrow and derivative
in their coverage. Essentially the same applies to the
museum preference for retaining older, more descriptive
field designations such as mineral sciences and geology.
The dominant trend among university departments in that
domain of science today is, I believe, toward a more uni-
fied treatment of atmospheres, oceans, and the internal
circulatory movements of the earth itself under the heading
of geophysical sciences.

Museums, since they are collections-based, need not and
usually cannot pursue the goal of relatively balanced
strength that characterizes universities. True, there are
some more-or-less “natural” units, of which Natural His-
tory and perhaps Modern Art are examples. Within these,
bodies of method, theory, and data are so widely shared
that real eminence may be difficult to achieve on a nar-
rower basis. But contrariwise, a single museum with any-
thing approaching the universalistic aspirations of at least
a few great universities is an impossibility. The Smithso-
nian goes as far in this direction as any institution in the
world, but, significantly, it can do so only by loosely link-
ing together no less than fourteen highly diverse, physi-
cally as well as professionally distinct units.

In spite of this unparalleled degree of aggregation, by
the standards of our major universities there are significant
areas which even the Smithsonian must largely ignore.
Laboratory-based subjects in the sciences, such as physics
and chemistry, do not lend themselves easily to exhibition
and are outside its purview. More generally, fields in
which the primary language of communication is mathe-
matical receive little attention at the Smithsonian since

14

they are difficult to communicate to visitors lacking spe-
cialized training. But there are equally significant gaps in
the humanities and social sciences.

Material objects in museum collections do not encour-
age us to do full justice, for example, to political, eco-
nomic, and intellectual themes. Equally obvious is the
dominance in the construction of museum programs of a
materialist collections orientation, as distinguished from a
humanistic perspective concentrating on written records
and forms of creative expression. Apart from the work of
its archaeologists and art historians, there are also sub-
stantive restrictions on the Smithsonian’s coverage that
exclude much of the world and the entire pre-modern era.
Such restrictions in focus are reasonable as well as
unavoidable, given that they occur in what are typically
areas of university strength. But it is important not to lose
sight of these differences, and to highlight the complemen-
tarities of function that they make possible. An important
opportunity for the Smithsonian in that respect is to facili-
tate a wider intermingling of the activities of museum pro-
fessionals with those of the faculties—and postdoctoral
staffs and graduate student bodies—of a number of univer
sities.

Excessive specialization is a further danger that muse-
ums must work to overcome. Once again, it is closely tied
to the prevailing concentration by museum curators on
their collections. Inhibiting a fruitful clash of views, of the
kind ideally associated with graduate university seminars,
is the necessity for a fairly close identification of a museum
specialist with his or her own component of a museum’s
collections. In addition, there is a discreteness to object-
based studies that sometimes deters those involved in them
from the discovery, or even the application, of overarching
theory. This intensifies the relative isolation of museum
curators from their university faculty counterparts. And
some isolation is already a result of museums’ preoccupa-
tion with issues of systematics and typology that have
largely disappeared from university curricula.

The foregoing considerations have been largely negative.
They distinguish public museums from universities rather
sharply. They also would seem to diminish the range of
museums’ potential contributions to the advance of knowl-
edge, and to delay the response within museums to new
ideas. Are museums in fact as constrained in their creative-
ness and capacities for fundamental research as this sug-
gests? This is certainly not the case! The reason is that
there are a host of other, decidedly more positive consider-
ations that create more diversified challenges and opportu-
ee vss

Paleobiologist Dr. Robert J. Emry places a fossil log under a mounted skeleton of Hyracotherium, the earliest known ancestor of the
modern horse, in the Museum of Natural History’s new exhibition Mammals in the Limelight.

nities for museum staffs, and that place the overall
contrast with universities in a generally more favorable
light.

To begin with, the broad, self-selected character of a
museum’s audience somewhat counterbalances the nar-
rowing effects of concentrating on specialized collections.
Visitors’ questions, not to speak of the prior need to make
exhibits intelligible, encourage a dialogue reaching far
beyond the stratified circles to which most academic facul-
ties confine themselves. Museum exhibits, let me empha-
size, need not be frozen and didactic. They can genuinely

involve at least some members of the public in their
improvement and even in their initial design. At their most
unconventional and innovative, as in the San Francisco
Exploratorium (I wish I could cite a humanistic parallel!),
they can even involve exciting voyages of quasi-research
discovery that transform the understanding of those creat-
ing them as much as those viewing them.

Furthermore, museums have gratifying opportunities to
respond to national needs and problems that are beyond
the reach of universities. Museums, for example, must not
only accommodate to but creatively interpret intensified

1)
demands for public participation, and for a decentraliza-
tion of society permitting a multitude of individual
choices. With a quarter of the annual increase in our popu-
lation now being a product of massively renewed immigra-
tion, their exhibits must somehow reflect the reemergence
of cultural pluralism. Museums also offer opportunities,
unknown in universities, to contribute to a rediscovery of
literacy, in all its forms, at a time when our school systems
are faltering at this task. A major new initiative that the
Smithsonian has undertaken jointly with the National
Academy of Sciences—the creation of a National Science
Resources Center—takes direct advantage of such oppor-
tunities.

Turning to research in museums, it has a number of pos-
itive aspects that are less obvious—but no less important—
than the somewhat negative ones I have mentioned. Work
in universities is typically tied to the relatively narrow tol-
erances and priorities of the peer review systems of the
national foundations, institutes, and endowments; that in
museums is significantly less so. Hence museums are par-
ticularly suitable as a base for long-term or high-risk
research projects. The necessarily delayed or uncertain
payoffs of such projects cannot correspond to the restric-
tive terms of granting cycles. They aim instead at slowly
cumulative increases in knowledge, or at going beyond
safe bets to test unpopular ideas that, if correct, would
have important consequences. I am proud to include the
Smithsonian among the museums that at times have quite
consciously taken this latter approach.

Similarly, while a preoccupation with systematics and
descriptive approaches may lead to isolation and corres-
ponding theoretical weakness, natural history museums
have a matching strength: modern ecological problems
underscore the need for more, not less, systematics. Take
what can only be described as an approaching world crisis
of tropical deforestation, a subject with which we plan to
deal in a forum jointly sponsored with the National Acad-
emy of Sciences and in a later exhibition in our soon-to-be-
opened Quadrangle. These forests are biologically the
richest of the earth’s environments. A proliferation of spe-
cies is now being found in them that far exceeds earlier
estimates. As a result, we may need to alter evolutionary
views concentrating on the differential survival of variably
endowed individuals within a species, and to give greater
emphasis to processes of inter-species competition. But
fundamental to any such research effort must be a securely
established basis of species identification, classification,
and relationships. Sociobiologist E. O. Wilson has made
the point eloquently:

16

If systematics is an indispensable handmaiden of other
branches of research, it is also a fountainhead of discov-
eries and new ideas, providing the remedy for what the
biologist and philosopher William Morton Wheeler
once called the dry rot of academic biology. Systematics
has never been given enough credit for this second, vital
role. Every time I walk into a fresh habitat, whether
tropical forest, grassland, or desert, I become quickly
aware of the potential created by a knowledge of classi-
fication. If a biologist can identify only a limited number
of species, he is likely to gravitate toward them and end
up on well-trodden ground; the remainder of the species
remain a confusing jungle. But if he is well-trained in the
classification of the organisms encountered, his oppor-
tunities multiply. The known facts of natural history
become an open book, patterns of adaptation fall into
place, and previously unknown phenomena offer them-
selves conspicuously. By proceeding in this opportunistic
fashion, the biologist might strike a new form of animal
communication, a previously unsuspected mode of root
symbiosis, or a relation between certain species that per-
mits a definitive test of a competition theory. The irony
of the situation is that successful research then gets
labeled as ecology, physiology, or almost anything else
but its fons et origo, the study of diversity.

I observed earlier that museum collections may some-
times represent a source of undesirable inertia. But they
remain a precious resource for science which must be nur-
tured and maintained. Our knowledge of the natural
world derives in large measure from studies of the collec-
tions. As new insights and technologies are developed, col-
lections are reexamined and more information is gleaned.
Hence, we should not think of collections as stagnant, but
rather as dynamic assemblages of the natural world which
grow in value over time. The Smithsonian’s collection of
egg shells, for example, has been crucial to understanding
the impact of pesticides on the size, growth rates, and sus-
tainable population of birds, while our fish collection,
which dates from the 1880s, has provided important evi-
dence on signficantly higher concentrations of methyl mer-
cury in fish already by the 1970s.

Solutions to the problems of Third World countries also
are often dependent on museum collections. Such prob-
lems often include excessive population growth and conse-
quent stress on the resource base, accompanied by
depletion of soil nutrients, deforestation, and the decline
of genetic diversity in crop and forest reserves. It is diffi-
cult for any of these complex and interlocking issues to be
addressed without a more detailed knowledge of the envi-

ronment. Increasingly, that must include a detailed
account of native faunas and floras, for which only the
collections of the great natural history museums can pro-
vide the needed standards for comparison.

Turning from museum potentialities in the life sciences,
let us consider a case midway along the continuum
between natural history and the arts. Anthropology and
archaeology collections offer different but equally interest-
ing possibilities. Evolving standards and traditions of
inquiry are leading us away from concentrating on the for-
mal, macroscopically observable properties of individual
objects. The science moves instead toward the internal
properties, contexts, and associations of objects in
collections—features that may never be evident to the
casual museum visitor. Context, in particular, is of critical
importance. This explains why archaeologists have taken
leadership in efforts to prevent the illicit international
movement and sale of antiquities, since that traffic, by its
nature, conceals or destroys information on context.

Scholarly advance in this area involves steadily improv-
ing precision in recording and interpreting temporal and
spatial associations and modes of deposition or preserva-
tion. Manufacturing debris may be at least as important as
the object itself. A used and broken specimen may permit
dimensions of understanding that a perfect, unused one
cannot. A poor copy or duplicate, of little interest to an art
historian, may provide vital clues to the ways in which
commodities were produced and circulated. Physico-
chemical analysis can reveal sources of raw materials,
modes of preparation, and patterns of use. All of these
details are frankly more significant as scholarly objectives
than the display of the object itself. Exhibits become corre-
spondingly more difficult to explain and mount, and atten-
tion shifts from individual works of art or craftsmanship
to the representation of entire social systems in large, care-
fully sampled collections of which little will ever go on
exhibit.

Particularly distinguishing both history and art muse-
ums are exhibits or collections that are not simply repre-
sentatives of larger classes but may have symbolic
functions or properties of their own. The Smithsonian’s

‘massive participation in the Festival of India—eighteen of
our bureaus were directly involved—is a case in point. In
no way could the rich texture of India itself be adequately
represented. Some would argue that the path we took
slighted its history and diversity, as well as the dynamism
of its modern centers of urban integration. But the marvel-
lous vitality of the Aditi exhibition, in particular, conveyed
an even more significant message of its own.
Symbolic properties always present special challenges.

How can curators deal responsibly with objects that are,
in effect, icons, regarded as precious or freighted with con-
temporary meaning by their viewers, respecting and
enhancing the significance they have for many, while at the
same time studying them dispassionately as scholars? Can
they encourage viewers to distinguish contemporary from
original meanings by the ways in which objects are dis-
played in exhibits suggestive of their wider social and his-
torical contexts? Museum-associated historians and
historians of art can face challenges of this kind that are
fully as subtle and intellectually demanding as those
accepted by their university-associated counterparts.

In speaking of icons I am not referring solely to individ-
ual objects of great public veneration, such as the Star-
Spangled Banner that is briefly uncovered in the
Smithsonian every hour to the playing of our national:
anthem. The symbolic associations of whole collections
can more or less consciously be used for didactic ends, as
Barbara Clark Smith of our National Museum of Ameri-
can History has recently argued. Take the case of the deco-
rative arts and crafts, which were rather self-consciously
“Americanized” in the early decades of this century at a
time when a mass influx of immigrants may have seemed
to threaten established traditions here. At first, the resul-
tant focus was typically on beautiful objects in their own
right, inculcating the aesthetic standards and values of
native American elites, without regard for what may have
been representative or in common use.

In the 1950s the emphasis shifted, as in our own exhibi-
tion entitled Everyday Life in the American Past. But the
image then sought was of an idealized average or middle
class, without reference to the range of variation charac-
teristic of the society itself. As the initial proposal for that
exhibition put it, “When the visitor leaves he will have in
his own mind’s eye a clear impression of what the average
American . . . held as his obtainable ideal.” Shifting yet
further in the 1970s and 1980s, historians are now
projecting—our just-opened exhibition After the Revolu-
tion is an example—a more comprehensive picture of the
condition of life of the whole society, with the internal
stresses, conflicting values, and diversity that have always

been part of it.
To carry out this latest interpretive task with collections

as the basis—to make the transition from material objects
to an understanding of deeper and more generalized pat-
terns of social, cultural, and intellectual history—is not
only difficult in itself but almost certainly leads to altered
interpretations. It is fully comparable, in other words, to a
new and creative research product. But for a public
museum the underlying objective is no different from ear-

17
lier ones. All of the successive orientations of museum
exhibitions concerned with history to which I have
referred necessarily proceeded from one value position or
another: a particular interpretation of history, or an asser-
tion of the priorities of particular historians. Such posi-
tions then enter the arena of public debate. And they do so
more directly, risking or benefiting more from the resultant
public response, than if the same interpretations were pro-
pounded within the better insulated setting of a university.

There is a feature of many public museums of the arts
that seems to distinguish them not merely from universities
but even from museums in university settings. As exempli-
fied by our Cooper-Hewitt Museum, the National
Museum of Design, they are more likely not to confine
themselves rigorously to the fine arts but to range into the
decorative arts, the crafts, and the field of design. In so
doing they create a new vision of unity that links creative
accomplishments with the wider world that supports and
hopes to utilize them. Why they should have assumed this
mantle of leadership is unclear, although I can hazard a
possible explanation.

Critic Meyer Abrams argues that the bifurcation
between art and design is surprisingly recent, culminating
only with the publication of Immanuel Kant’s Critique of
Aesthetic Judgment in 1790. Prior to that, from the time of
the Classical Greeks onward, theorists had assumed the
maker’s stance toward a work of art, regarding it as a
thing made, an opus, according to a techne or ars, that is a
craft, each with its requisite skills. This was, in Abrams’
terms, a “construction model”—a work designed to attain
certain external ends: to have an emotional or instruc-
tional effect on a particular audience, or in a particular
social, religious, or other setting.

In the latter part of the eighteenth century, Abrams
maintains, such a stance was replaced by a “contemplation
model,” consistent with the growth of a substantial leisure
class that included among its symbols of status the refine-
ment of a nonutilitarian aesthetic culture and the prestige
of connoisseurship. This model treated the products of all
the fine arts as ready-made things existing simply for the
rapt attention of viewers, who were wholly divorced from
the world of the artist or from the world of any intended
use.

Is it possible that the narrower definition prevails in uni-
versities, because they are more tightly bound to the disci-
plines of art history and art criticism by their responsibility
for training scholars in these disciplines—in fact, by the
encapsulating academic society that I mentioned earlier?
Museums may be staffed by some of those trained
scholars, but they differ in being more subject to the pull

18

of a public demand that is not cognizant of the restraints
imposed by the traditional boundaries of academic disci-
plines. Public art museums have fewer restraints, and thus
are able to range more widely, to be more experimental, or
to specialize in new and more unconventional ways. May
we continue to take advantage of those opportunities!

I return, in conclusion, to my underlying concern with the
enhancement of continuities. There is no denying that we
live in a climate of shrunken expectations and lengthening
postponements. Is talk of enhancing anything merely
empty rhetoric under the circumstances? | think not,
although concededly, as an archaeologist and culture his-
torian, | may be more tolerant than most about progress
that can only be measured across static generations or even
epochs. Timing imperatives almost always seem more
urgent in prospect than in retrospect. Good ideas need not
die if not immediately put into effect. Holding deter-
minedly to a long-term view and thinking specifically of
the Smithsonian (although with an eye on more widely
prevailing needs and opportunities as well) what should be
our goals?

Further growth for its own sake is neither possible nor
especially desirable, although it may occur as a by-
product. Substantial further growth could well have a pre-
dominantly negative effect, by increasing our fixed
commitments and hence restricting our vital freedom of
action. At least in our research, that freedom—to pursue
new leads, to see and exploit new connectivities, to test
and find wanting one approach and go on, zealously and
without hesitation or regret, to develop a better one—is
one of the goals that is most precious to us.

A second goal is to facilitate our own engagement in,
and contribution to, the widest possible discourse. Institu-
tions have natural boundaries in some respects, imposed
by their programs, budgets, traditions, staff expertise, and
the like. But it is important not to accept those boundaries
uncritically and then to overgeneralize about their applica-
bility, permanence, and significance. The proper place for
the Smithsonian’s programs, in other words, is not kept to
themselves within a rigid, preexisting structure, but in the
widest and closest possible interaction with all their actual
and potential counterparts.

Third and finally, I have touched at numerous points on
the notion of discovering and reinforcing new
complementarities—between fields of specialization,
between internally generated projects and the needs and
perceptions of the wider society, and between the increase
and the diffusion of knowledge. Hence it is appropriate to

Young visitors are introduced to a chinchilla during the Meet-a-Mammal education program at the Zoo’s Small Mammal House.

use as an illustration and encouragement, for the arts and
humanities as well as for the sciences, an example drawn
from the history of physics. Werner Heisenberg’s “uncer-
tainty principle,” formulated in 1927, established that in
the then new and revolutionary world of quantum physics
one could determine the position of an orbiting electron,
or its velocity. But the two quantities could not be deter-
mined simultaneously. The very process of measuring
either position or velocity altered the other entity so that
both could never be known with certainty. It is a dilemma
with analogies or resonances that are familiar to human-
ists, such as the distorting role of the observer of human
actions, or the foreclosure that a widely circulated inter-
pretation may impose on precise future recurrences of the
past pattern of human thought or behavior to which it
referred.

The solution to this dilemma was also propounded by a
physicist, Niels Bohr. He called his insight “complementar-
ity,’ and it was as much philosophy as it was physics. In

essence, Bohr said, the position of a particle might be con-
sidered “complementary” to knowledge of its velocity. By
knowing both with the greatest possible accuracy, a more
complete description of experience, a new synthesis, was
possible. Complementarity was stated in other ways by
Bohr in his efforts to explain the new physics. Think of
complementarity, he said, in terms of two ideals that may
seem mutually exclusive—for example, justice and com-
passion. Taken together, Bohr pointed out, they comple-
ment one another to create a larger truth.

The humanities and the sciences are, in my view, com-
plementary in just the sense that Niels Bohr suggested.
And it should be our goal to make the Smithsonian Institu-
tion a place where these activities not only coexist but
work together to create a larger truth.

19
Staff Changes

For an institution of such size, diversity, and complexity,
the Smithsonian has had remarkably few changes in its top
staff over the last year. But the significance of these
changes will nonetheless be apparent to all who know the
Institution well.

The retirement of Under Secretary Phillip Samuel
Hughes is a case in point. At his own insistence and with
great reluctance, we let Sam retire quietly, without fanfare,
on an inconspicuous Friday afternoon in early June. What
slipped from our midst was a rare example of public serv-
ice at its best. Though his five years at the Smithsonian
were but a few crowning an exceptional career in public
administration in and around the federal government, his
presence will be gratefully recalled throughout the
Smithsonian for years to come. At the same time, we were
fortunate to have among our cadre Dean Anderson, a man
of extraordinary vision and accomplishment who from the
first has proven an effective successor to Sam as Under
Secretary.

Several other important staff changes were made quite
early in my first year at the Smithsonian. To meet the needs
of the Institution in its conduct of international activities,
we were again fortunate to be able to recruit from among
our own number John Reinhardt, who assumed a new
high-level position as Director of International Activities.
A former ambassador and State Department official, as
well as former acting director of the National Museum of
African Art and Assistant Secretary for History and Art,
John brings a wealth of experience to this vital area of
Smithsonian interests. Another major appointment came
to fruition with the arrival early this year of James Deme-
trion as Director of the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture
Garden. Jim is off to a highly productive beginning which
is likely to be of lasting significance to the museum and the
Institution.

Several key departures include Richard Fiske, former
Director of the National Museum of Natural History and
now a full-time volcanologist there; Jon Yellin, former
Director of Programing and Budget and now Assistant
Director for Administration at the Woodrow Wilson Cen-
ter; Nathan Reingold, founding editor of the Papers of
Joseph Henry and now Senior Historian at the National
Museum of American History; and Ken Shaw, Director of
the Office of Plant Services, who retired after almost
eleven years of highly effective service. While these and
other dedicated administrators will be missed, we are for-
tunate to be able to count on their continuing involvement
in the work of the Institution in new capacities.

20

The staff of the Smithsonian is its backbone: its vitality,
uniqueness, and strength. To all of them I owe an extraor-
dinary debt of gratitude for having supported me in my
first year as Secretary.

The Year in Review

For the Smithsonian Institution, fiscal 1985 was a year of
enrichment of the national collections, celebration of cul-
tural diversity, and achievement in research, exhibition,
and construction.

Additions to the collections of scientific specimens,
works of art, and cultural artifacts held in the name of the
American people numbered more than half a million items
during the year. Most of the new objects became part of
the study collections; a few were displayed in ongoing
exhibits or in one of the year’s 100 new exhibitions, to be
enjoyed by the members of the public who paid an esti-
mated 22.7 million visits to Smithsonian museums during
the year.

The briefest survey of the variety of these objects attests
to the scope of Smithsonian research and areas of responsi-
bility.

The Entomology collection at the National Museum of
Natural History was strengthened by the new Brodzinsky
Collection—rare pieces of amber containing plant and
insect fossils, some 24 million years old, which are both
objects of beauty and sources of scientific information.

The museum also acquired the Small/ Nicolay collection
of more than 100,000 butterflies from North and South
America, including many species that previously were not
represented in the Smithsonian’s collection, as well as
many species new to scientists.

At the National Museum of American History, one
newly acquired item of true historical significance was the
Bradford cup, a rare silver wine goblet made in 1634,
which belonged to William Bradford, governor of Plym-
outh Colony.

On a more contemporary note, the museum’s Political
History division was busy in early 1985 cataloging presi-
dential campaign memorabilia—buttons, banners, badges,
and bumper stickers—gathered during the 1984 Demo-
cratic and Republican conventions.

The museum also added one of the earliest Isaac Singer
sewing machines and one of the original Xerox copier
machines to its collections.

The National Air and Space Museum acquired the suit
and helmet worn by Senator Jake Garn of Utah on his Dis-
covery shuttle flight, a Soviet SAM-2 missile, tires from the

space shuttle Columbia, and memorabilia from former
astronaut—and former Smithsonian Under Secretary—
Michael Collins, including the operations checklist Collins
used on the Apollo II lunar landing mission in 1969.

Among the additions to the collections of the National
Museum of American Art were 459 paintings of American
Indians by George Catlin, transferred from the National
Museum of Natural History.

The National Portrait Gallery’s Print Department
became the custodian of a rare broadside offering
$100,000 for the capture of Lincoln’s assassin, John Wilkes
Booth. There were few such “WANTED” signs posted
because Booth and his accomplices were caught twelve
days after the assassination.

Every birth at the National Zoo adds to the collection,
but there are also additions to the living inventory from
outside sources, among them this year an Indian rhinoc-
eros, an endangered Cuban crocodile, and a female giraffe
from Africa.

Among the many generous gifts and the carefully con-
sidered purchases during the year, three in particular stood
out as treasures of human creativity.

In one case, there was drama in the act of acquisition. It
was a fortuitous meeting between Smithsonian curators
and a private collector of Islamic and Persian paintings
and manuscripts which led to an addition to the national
collections that is perhaps the most significant purchase in
the Institution’s history.

The very existence of the Vever Collection, which has
been acquired for the Arthur M. Sackler Gallery, a new
museum of Asian and Near Eastern art scheduled to open
to the public in 1987, had been the subject of continual
speculation among scholars for more than forty years.

This unparalleled treasury of artwork, much of it by the
leading artists of their times, was assembled between 1900
and 1943 by Henri Vever, a prominent jeweler in Paris. The
collection provides a comprehensive survey of the art of
the Persian book and is composed of 39 full manuscripts,
291 separate miniatures, 98 calligraphies and illumina-
tions, 29 bookbindings, and 4 textiles. Much of the Vever
Collection, which includes examples of almost all the great
classical Persian texts, as well as several important Arabic
works, has never before been exhibited.

With the national collections now comprising the
Islamic paintings in the Freer Gallery of Art, generally
acknowledged to be the finest grouping in North America,
and the Vever Collection, which is larger than the Freer’s
and of comparable quality, the Smithsonian takes its place
as a major world center for the study and exhibition of

Islamic manuscripts.

The Vever Collection was purchased through a combi-
nation of Smithsonian trust funds and private contribu
tions, including a generous contribution from Dr. Arthur
M. Sackler, donor of the Sackler Gallery. In addition, Dr.
Sackler was instrumental in negotiating the acquisition of
the collection.

Meanwhile, the National Museum of African Art was in
the process of acquiring a major collection of African art
objects. Assembled over the years by a private European
collector, these works range in date from the twelfth cen-
tury to the mid-twentieth century. They originate from
several sub-Saharan regions, with particularly fine repre-
sentations from Central Africa. Twelve of the pieces are
unique in their own categories; they are celebrated in the
corpus of African Art known today and have accordingly
been exhibited and reproduced in publications repeatedly
throughout the world. The objects are of exceptional aes-
thetic quality, and their presence will elevate the museum’s
holdings into the mainstream of museum collections of
African art in the United States.

The National Museum of American Art received a unique
gift from the Container Corporation of America: 311
paintings, sculptures, drawings, and collages, modern
works commissioned by Container Corporation and
reproduced in the institutional advertising programs inau-
gurated by the company in 1937. Most of these works were
commissioned for the Great Ideas series, in which artists
interpreted the writings of the world’s great thinkers. The
collection is both a documentation of a corporation’s role
in the cultural life of the United States for nearly fifty years
and a repository of many distinguished works by major
artists of the twentieth century.

The year was also notable for three important milestones
in the history of a multifaceted institution which has the
privilege of celebrating the accomplishments of the past
while anticipating the challenges of the near and distant
future.

On October 4, 1984, the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculp-
ture Garden celebrated the tenth anniversary of its open-
ing. The museum, established through a gift by the late
Joseph Hirshhorn of his entire collection of 6,000 modern
sculptures, paintings, and works on paper to the United
States in 1966, embarks on its second decade immeasur-

21
22

Department, Washington, April 20, 1865,

"FO 000 RATA

THE MURDERER

Of our late beloved President, Abraham Lincoln,
IS STILL AT LARGE.

$90,000 REWARD

Will be er 4, this Department for his apprehension, in addition to any reward offered by
Municipal jr Aree or State Executives.

$20,000 REWARD

Will be paid 5 the apprehension of JOHN H. SURRATT, one of Booth’s Accomplices.

$20,000 REWARD

Will be paid for the apprehension of David C. Harold, another of Booth’s accomplices.

LIBERAL REWARDS will be paid tor any information that shall conduce to the arrest of either of the above-
named criminals, or their accomplices.

All persons harboring or secreting the said persons, or either of them, or aiding or assisting their concealment or
escape, will be treated as accomplices m the murder of the President and the attempted assassination of the Secretary of
State, and shall be subject to trial before a Military Commission and the punishment of DEATH

Let the stain of innocent blood be removed from the land by the arrest and punishment of the murderers

All good citizens are exhorted to aid public justice on this occasion. Every man should consider his own conscience
charged with this solemn duty, and rest neither night nor day until it be accomplished,

EDWIN M. STANTON, Secretary of War.

DESCRIPTIONS.—BOOTH is Five Feet 7 or 8 inches high, slender build, high forehead, black hair, black eyes, and
wears a heavy black moustache,
JOHN H. SURRAT is about 5 feet, 9 inches. Hair rather thin and dark; eyes rather light: uo beard. Would
weigh 145 or 150 pounds, Complexion rather pale and clear, with color in his cheeks. Wore light clothes of fine
quality, Shoulders square; cheek bones rather prominent; chin narrow; ears yrojec ting at the top inate rather

low and square, but broad, Parts his hair on the right side; neck rather long. His lips are firmly set slim man.
DAVID C, HAROLD is five feet six inches high, hair dark, eyes dark, eyebrows rather heavy, full tice nose short,
hand short and fleshy, feet small, instep high, round bodied, naturally quick and active, slightly closes his eves when
looking at a person
NOTICE.—In addition to the above. State and other authorities have offered rewards am st hun

(thousond dollars, making an aggregate of about TWO HUNDRED THOUSAND DOLLARS.

A rare broadside offering a reward for the capture of Lincoln’s assassin, John Wilkes
Booth, and his accomplices. Albumen silver print, mounted on printed broadside,
1865. National Portrait Gallery.

ably enriched by Mr. Hirshhorn’s generous bequest of
5,500 additional art works.

In March 1985, the National Museum of Natural His-
tory celebrated the 75th anniversary of the opening of the
present building with a series of special events, including
Diamond Jubilee birthday parties for Smithsonian staff
and for visitors; an exhibition of ninety historic photo-
graphs entitled The Natural History Building, A Visual
Memoir; the installation of two permanent natural sculp-
tures, a massive iron-ore boulder, and an arrangement of
petrified logs, at the Mall entrance; an illustrated scholarly
history; souvenir booklets and posters, and the first picto-
rial staff directory.

The Resident Associate Program celebrated its 2oth
anniversary in the fall of 1985 with a rich program of films,
courses, tours, lectures, and special events suited to the
program’s dedication to the principle of lifelong education
and its pioneering role in the development of the concept
that museums can be effective vehicles for education from
childhood to the golden years. Since the program’s hesitant
first steps two decades ago, its membership has grown
from 1,522 to a healthy 56,000, representing a total of
130,000 people. With the help of growing public support,
the program has evolved from a few modest efforts to its
present offering of some 2,000 activities a year. Last year,
a total of 270,000 people passed through one or another of
the Institution’s doors to participate actively in the life of
the Smithsonian through the Resident Associate Program.

The year was also marked by President Reagan’s presenta-
tion of the Medal of Freedom, the nation’s highest civilian
award, to Smithsonian Secretary Emeritus S. Dillon
Ripley, whose twenty-year tenure as the Institution’s eighth
secretary broadened and extended the Smithsonian’s serv-
ices in the fields of science, history, exposition, publica-
tion, education, research, public service, community
activities, conservation, and the performing as well as the
visual arts and brought into being several new units and
museums, including the Hirshhorn Museum and the
Smithsonian Associates.

The Festival of India 1985-1986 opened in Washington,
D.C., in June 1985. This celebration of Indian culture in
the United States is bringing art, music, drama, dance,
film, and crafts to major cultural institutions across the
United States, depicting the variety and richness of modern
India as well as the continuity of 5,000 years of cultural

tradition and heritage.

The Festival, which originated with an agreement
between the late Indian Prime Minister Mrs. Indira Gan-
dhi and President Reagan in 1982, is an important land-
mark in Indo-U.S. relations, forging better bridges of
understanding between the peoples of the world’s two
largest democracies.

Eighteen Smithsonian bureaus have become involved in
planning and producing exhibits, programs, and events
specially designed for the Smithsonian’s program for the
Festival of India 1985-1986. Secretary Emeritus Ripley is
American chairman for the Festival.

The Smithsonian’s first exhibition for the Festival, The
Arts of South Asia at the Freer Gallery of Art, assembled
some seventy masterpieces of painting and sculpture repre-
senting a complete survey of the Freer’s holdings from the
Indian subcontinent, spanning the period from the second
century B.c. through the eighteenth century. It was the
largest showing of Indian painting and sculpture in the
Freer’s history.

Aditi: A Celebration of Life, a unique living exhibition
originally created in New Delhi in 1978 for the Year of the
Child, transformed the National Museum of Natural His-
tory’s Special Exhibits Gallery into a rural Indian setting
where visitors not only saw artifacts associated with the
stages of life, but also were treated to live performances,
demonstrations, and rituals, all designed to reveal the tra-
ditional world of the Indian child. More than 125,000 visi-
tors, including Indian Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi and
first lady Nancy Reagan, viewed the exhibition during its
eight-week-long stay.

For two weeks during the summer, the nineteenth
annual Festival of American Folklife, produced by the
Smithsonian’s Office of Folklife Programs, brought the
National Mall alive with the sights, sounds, tastes, smells,
and textures of an Indian mela, or fair, with seventy partic-
ipants from India, including street performers such as
acrobats, jugglers, and animal and human impersonators;
booth operators such as fortunetellers, garland makers,
and improvisational photographers; musicians, folk
dancers, and ritual artisans.

A remarkable feature of both Aditi and Mela! An Indian
Fair was the response of Smithsonian friends and the
Washington community at large to the Institution’s need
for extra help. In addition to the time dedicated by staff
members, 134 volunteer translators, docents, and helpers
gave 8,500 hours to Aditi, and 125 volunteers spent 5,000
hours on the mela, helping with everything from hospital-
ity to construction work.

At the National Museum of Natural History, two exhi-

23
XY ~~
x

aS So

Indian folk artist Ganga Devi demonstrates the techniques of Mithila wall painting in the Aditi exhibition. Depictions of divine lovers
Radha and Krishna grace the walls of traditional nuptial chambers in her home village.

bitions of photographs offered contrasting views of India,
past and present. Rosalind Solomon: India consisted of
thirty-nine photographs taken in India by American pho-
tographer Rosalind Solomon from 1981 to 1984; Images of
India: Photographs by Lala Deen Dayal presented twenty-
one photographs by India’s most accomplished nineteenth-
century photographer, documenting not only architectural
monuments but also the changing world of Indian princes
under the British Raj.

Panorama of India, at the National Museum of Ameri-
can History, drew on the collections of the Smithsonian
Libraries to assemble books, prints, and a manuscript doc-
umenting early European voyages and travels in India,
accounts of British officials who served in India, and the
influence of Indian art motifs on European designs and
tastes.

The Office of Smithsonian Symposia and Seminars
sponsored “The Canvas of Culture: Rediscovery of the

24

Past as Adaptation for the Future,” a symposium in which
participants from India and the United States explored
critical questions of loss, continuity, and change as they
apply to interrelated aspects of Indian life: folk traditions,
contemporary fine arts and letters, religion and ritual,
women and the family, the natural and built environment,
and science and technology.

The Smithsonian Resident Associate Program joined in
with a schedule of courses, seminars, workshops, tours,
films, and performing arts events, for adults and young
people, in conjunction with the Festival of India, and the
National Associate Travel Program offered tours to wild-
life sanctuaries in India and Nepal.

Radio Smithsonian, the Institution’s nationally broad-
cast weekly radio program, offered features on scientific
research in India as well as cultural and historical topics.

The Smithsonian News Service, which distributes
monthly packages of feature stories to more than 1,500

ee
daily and weekly newspapers across the United States,
issued a special edition of features focusing on aspects of
India today.

Several publications will result from the Institution’s
involvement with the Festival of India 1985-1986. The
Smithsonian Institution Press has already given us Aditi:
The Living Arts of India, a look at life in India through the
world of the child, with numerous essays by India experts,
written on the occasion of the exhibition, Aditi: A Cele-
bration of Life.

The spirit of international cooperation and exchange
embodied in an event like the Festival of India 1985-1986
has long been a part of the Smithsonian’s mission. This
spirit continues to grow and find expression in ongoing
Smithsonian activities and in our plans for the future.

The Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars
increasingly provides opportunities for American and for-
eign scholars to meet and share ideas. From late September
1984 to May 1985, the Center organized five major confer-
ences on “The United States, Britain, and Europe:
Changed Relationships in a Changing World, alternating
the venue between the Wilson Center and Ditchley Park,
Oxford. Culminating the fiscal year was a three-day con-
ference on “Spain in the 1980s: The Domestic Transition
and a Changing International Role,” which examined
Spain’s decade-long transition to parliamentary democracy
and its significance, especially from the point of view of
Latin American nations.

At the invitation of the Ministry of Culture of Pakistan,
the Smithsonian’s Office of Museum Programs sent staff to
Islamabad and Karachi to conduct two three-day work-
shops on “Preventive Care of Collections” for 50 partici-
pants from museums and archives in Lahore, Peshawar,
Hyderabad, Moenjodaro, Islamabad, and Karachi.
Eighty-six of the 123 participants in Museum Programs’
Visiting Professionals Program came to the Smithsonian
from museums and related organizations in Africa, Asia,
Europe, Central and South America.

Among the highlights of the Smithsonian Institution
Traveling Exhibition Service’s busy schedule for the year
was Ebla to Damascus: Art and Archaeology of Ancient
Syria, an exhibition of 281 objects representing 10,000
years of history. The exhibition, organized by sirEs and
the Directorate General of Antiquities, Syrian Arab
Republic, marks the first time that antiquities from Syria
have been shown in North America.

The Smithsonian National Associate Lecture and Semi-
nar Program offered its first International Program this

year. Ten Smithsonian speakers journeyed to Tokyo for
this significant event.

The concrete and steel evidence of the Smithsonian’s com-
mitment to the idea of international scholarly and cultural
exchange was plain to see as the construction of the mas-
sive Quadrangle project behind the Castle neared comple-
tion. The three-level underground facility will house the
Center for African, Near Eastern, and Asian Cultures as
well as public space and offices for the Smithsonian
National and Resident Associate programs and the
Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service.

The three major components of the Center are the
Arthur M. Sackler Gallery, the National Museum of Afri-
can Art, and the International Center.

The International Center will explore ancient and evolv-
ing cultures of the non-Western world and serve as the
Smithsonian’s headquarters for Latin American scholar-
ship, exhibitions, and programs. The Center will sponsor
major exhibitions, which will be displayed in the Interna-
tional Gallery for periods of nine months to a year. The
inaugural exhibition will be a unique multi-disciplinary
investigation of the art and rituals associated with birth,
from ancient times to the present. The Center will also
conduct scholarly seminars, conferences, and symposia
and organize public programs, including lectures, films,
performances, and demonstrations, on themes related to
the exhibitions.

The International Center is administered by the Direc-
torate of International Activities, which was established in
October 1984. In addition to planning for the move into
the Quadrangle, International Activities staff are prepar-
ing for the Smithsonian’s commemoration of the sooth
anniversary of Columbus’s 1492 landfall.

The Sackler Gallery and the Freer Gallery of Art
together comprise the Center for Asian Art. As construc-
tion of the Sackler Gallery’s basic structure neared comple-
tion, staff members were busy refining plans for the design
and furnishing of exhibition galleries, the museum shop,
collection storage, and the library. Plans are simultane-
ously being made for renovation of the Freer Gallery fol-
lowing the relocation of the library and offices to the
Sackler building.

The National Museum of African Art’s preparations for
the move from Capitol Hill have included a vigorous cam-
paign to recruit and train docents. A generous grant from
The Morris and Gwendolyn Cafritz Foundation has made
possible the planning and preparation for the major inau-
gural loan exhibition in the Quadrangle, African Art and

25
A Yoruba (Nigeria) ivory female figure on an oval-shaped base,
wearing a cone-shaped headdress, necklace, hip ornaments, and
bracelets, and holding a flywisk in one hand, was acquired by the
National Museum of African Art with the generous support of
the James Smithson Society. (Photograph by Ken Heinen)

26

the Cycle of Life.

The public’s interest in African art was illustrated by the
fact that more than 14,000 visitors came to the National
Museum of African Art in its present inadequate home on
Capitol Hill to view African Masterpieces from the Musée
de ! Homme during the exhibition’s nine-week stay. This
major display of t00 world-renowned works of art from
West and Central Africa, drawn from one of the foremost
collections of African art in the world, was presented
under the patronage of the Ambassador of the Republic of
France to the United States and organized by The Center
for African Art, New York.

For the first time, the National Museum of African Art
was able to make its collection and research facilities avail-
able for advanced scholarly research through the Smithso-
nian’s Office of Fellowships and Grants. This was made
possible by a three-year grant from the Rockefeller Foun-
dation Residency Program in the Humanities allowing
$150,000 for postdoctoral research in residence at the
museums in the areas of African art history and anthropol-
ogy, especially material culture, and in Asian art history
for research in the collections on topics that may initiate
scholarly symposia, exhibitions, and other major museum
activities.

The grant will provide two to three postdoctoral
appointments at the National Museum of African Art and
the Center for Asian Art each year beginning in 1985 and
continuing through 1988. The Smithsonian’s first fellow
under this program is studying the role of African women
as placemakers and the arts and architectures of nomadism
in Africa.

And the Smithsonian’s Office of Horticulture has been
preparing to put the crowning touch on the Quadrangle
with the planning of a 174,240-square-foot garden cover-
ing the site, the fruit of a s3 million gift from philanthro-
pist Enid Haupt.

The building of the Quadrangle project may have been the
most visible construction here this year, but it was cer-
tainly not the only growth in progress at. the Smithsonian,
which has been adding to its resources and achievements
in research, exhibition, publication, and education in the
scientific disciplines, history, and the arts.

The Archives of American Art opened a new center, its
sixth, in November 1984. The Southern California
Research Center, located at the Huntington Library in San
Marino, California, will serve the Pacific Southwest.

The Museum Support Center in Suitland, Maryland,
marked a historic moment on December 13, 1984, when

the first artifact—a jar filled with Pacific Halibut plankton
specimens—was placed on a shelf. It will be followed by
millions of objects and specimens from Smithsonian collec-
tions.

At the National Museum of American History, the first
of the museum’s major reinstallations neared completion.
After the Revolution: Everyday Life in America, 1780-
1800, opening in November 1985, explores the lives of
ordinary people who lived in America in the final two dec-
ades of the eighteenth century. The permanent exhibition
and its accompanying publications, educational materials,
and public programs are the fruits of several years of
research and planning.

While work continued on the new facility for the Ana-
costia Neighborhood Museum, scheduled to open in
March 1986, the museum presented its last exhibition in
the renovated movie house that has served as its home
since the mid-1960s. The Renaissance: Black Arts of the
20s takes visitors back to the period known as the Harlem
Renaissance, which saw an explosion of black creative
expression in literature, music, and the arts in Washing-
ton, Philadelphia, and other cities as well as in the Harlem
district of New York.

The National Museum of American Art offered its visi-
tors a look at the breadth of American artists’ creativity
with an exhibition program that included Sharing Tradi-
tions: Five Black Artists in Nineteenth-Century America,
Creation and Renewal: Views of Cotopaxi by Frederic
Edwin Church and, at the museum’s Renwick Gallery, The
Woven and Graphic Art of Anni Albers.

The Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden entered
its second decade with public programs and exhibitions
that included two very important shows with international
scope. Representation Abroad focused on the strength and
diversity of representational works by sixteen artists work-
ing in Australia, Colombia, France, Great Britain, Italy,
Spain, and West Germany. A New Romanticism: 16 Artists
from Italy was a major loan exhibition focusing on a
romantic, spiritual impulse in recent Italian art.

Among the many exhibitions at the Cooper-Hewitt
Museum, the Smithsonian’s National Museum of Design
in New York City, were Celebration and Ceremony:
Design in the Service of Wine, spanning the globe and
thirty-five centuries, and Art Pottery: A New Vista in
American Ceramics, now being circulated by the Smithso-
nian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service.

At the National Portrait Gallery, the joint exhibitions A
Truthful Likeness: Chester Harding and His Portraits and
William Edward West: 1788-1857, Kentucky Painter reex-
amined the work of two neglected mid-nineteenth century

artists, and a show of the work of Mexican artist Miguel
Covarrubias delighted visitors with the witty caricatures
that entertained readers of the New Yorker and Vanity Fair
beginning in the 1920s.

A survey of notable scientific achievements at the Smithso-
nian this year takes the reader from the ocean depths to
outer space.

In December 1984, two National Museum of Natural
History botanists reported the identification of the deepest
plant found on Earth, an alga they discovered during a
four-hour submersible dive off an uncharted seamount in
the Bahamas. The scientists said that the abundance of this
plant at previously unknown depths requires a rethinking
of the role of macroalgae in ocean ecology, opening up a
whole new realm of oceanography.

At the natural history museum, a microcosm of a Maine
coastal ecosystem, housed in a 3,000-gallon aquarium sim-
ulating natural conditions, joined the living coral-reef
model on display. The twin exhibits, developed by the
Smithsonian Marine Systems Laboratory, offer a classic
example of the interplay of scientific research and public
education at the Smithsonian.

Other research at the National Museum of Natural His-
tory included continued exploration of a remote Venezue-
lan mesa and coral atolls in the Indian Ocean. In addition,
museum scientists discovered evidence that eastern North
American Indians were farming long before the introduc-
tion of maize from Mexico, examined erosion of the Nile
Delta, addressed issues of conservation in the forests of
Kenya, and began the expansion of a volcanological data
bank.

The year also saw the completion of a ten-year study of
a bat population by a National Museum of Natural His-
tory biologist at the Smithsonian Tropical Research Insti-
tute (STRI) in Panama.

This was a landmark year for STRI. The government of
Panama extended to the Institute the prerogatives and ben-
efits that correspond to status as an International Mission.
STRI received a $4 million grant from the Earl Silas Tupper
Foundation to construct a new research center. STRI and
the University of Panama’s Center for Marine Sciences and
Limnology gave the first intensive graduate field course in
Marine Ecology to be offered at the University. In addi-
tion, two uninhabited and virtually undisturbed Pacific
islands off the Pacific coast of western Panama were
donated to STRI through the Nature Conservancy’s Inter-
national Program. These islands, donated by Jean
Neimeier of Poulsbo, Washington, in memory of her hus-

za)

band, Edward, have become living laboratories for scien-
tists studying native birds, vegetation, and iguanas.

Ongoing research at STRI included a pioneering study
of tropical tree diversity and population dynamics; studies
of the green iguana, a threatened species that is an impor-
tant traditional source of protein for people throughout
much of Latin America; research into the impact of Afri-
canized honeybees on native fauna, and investigation of
the evolutionary and ecological consequences of the mass
mortality devastating populations of one species of sea
urchin, Diadema antillarum, throughout the Caribbean.

The Smithsonian Environmental Research Center
(SERC) in Maryland pursued important, long-term
research in the areas of regulatory biology, environmental
biology, and radiocarbon dating. New insights were
gained into the structure and function of polypeptides
associated with the photosynthetic apparatus of plants.
Since August 1984, a high-precision scanning radiometer,
developed and built at SERC, has collected data atop
Mauna Loa, Hawaii, on ultraviolet light and changes in
the ozone layer. Other measurements on solar radiation
were collected in Maryland and Panama. At SERC’s site in
Edgewater, Maryland, scientists continued their studies of
the nutrient dynamics in the Chesapeake Bay ecosystem.

The National Zoo proceeded with its program of reno-
vation, redesign, and reconstruction, and completed a new
veterinary hospital at its Conservation and Research Cen-
ter in Front Royal, Virginia. Among the imaginative addi-
tions at the Zoo was the extensive planting of specially
chosen flowers which are luring masses of butterflies to the
Zoo.

There were over 350 births and hatchings at the Zoo,
many of them vital to international breeding programs for
endangered species and a tribute to the Zoo’s research in
this field. Asian lions were added to the collections as part
of a cooperative breeding program, and the Zoo placed
two female North American bison on display as symbols
of the contributions of zoos to conservation. The Zoo con-
tinued its program of releasing the progeny of one of its
most successful breeding programs, the golden-lion
tamarins, into the animal’s original habitat in Brazil, hop-
ing to augment the dwindling population in the wild.

When Space Shuttle Flight 51 F achieved Earth orbit on
July 29, 1985, Challenger carried among its complex array
of scientific experiments an Infrared Telescope designed
and built by the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory
(SAO) in cooperation with the University of Arizona and
the NASA-Marshall Space Flight Center.

SAO astronomers Christine Jones and William Forman
were awarded the Bruno Rossi Prize of the High Energy

28

Astrophysics Division of the American Astronomical Soci-
ety for their significant contributions to high-energy astro-
physics, specifically, their research on hot X-ray emitting
coronae around early-type galaxies, which provides fur-
ther evidence that the so-called missing mass of the uni-
verse may be found in the great dark halos surrounding
galaxies.

SAO scientists using advanced image-processing tech-
niques to reevaluate the existing map of the universe dis-
covered that some of the supposed distribution of galaxies
in strings and filaments was due to errors in the original

compilation techniques. They are now in the process of lit- |

erally changing the map of the universe.

At the National Air and Space Museum, visitors gained
the opportunity to ride the space shuttles vicariously
through the latest IMAX film, The Dream is Alive. This
insider’s view of America’s space shuttle program includes
inflight footage shot by astronauts specifically for the film,
which is shown on a screen five stories high.

In addition to educating and entertaining visitors, the
film, created through the cooperation of the Air and Space
Museum, Lockheed Corporation, IMAX Systems Corp.,
and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration
(NASA), is being used by NASA for purposes of design
research. By reviewing the footage of astronauts living in
the shuttle, NASA engineers may be able to design a better
shuttle.

The 1985 restoration of the 1903 Wright Flyer was an
important milestone for the museum’s Paul E. Garber
Preservation, Restoration and Storage Facility.

A new multi-media show, Comet Ouest, in the Air and
Space Museum’s planetarium, set the stage for Comet Hal-
ley’s return in 1986. Additions to major gallery exhibits
included Military Air Transport and Dynamic Worlds of
Jupiter and Saturn.

Researchers at Air and Space continued to collect, orga-
nize, and translate the finest archive available in the
United States of original material relating to Russian aero-
nautics during the first two decades of the twentieth-
century. Work also progressed on the Space Telescope
History project, a joint enterprise with the History of Sci-
ence Department of Johns Hopkins University. Scientific
research in terrestrial and planetary geology and remote
sensing at the Center for Earth and Planetary Studies
including mapping of features on Mars and study of geo-
morphologic processes in the upper Inland Niger Delta of
Mali, including study of desertification as a result of
twenty years of drought. This work was expanded to a
broader three-year study of three arid regions in Mali,
Egypt, and Botswana.

Another major technological achievement was realized
in the museum’s successful field tests of the System for Dig-
ital Display (SDD), a computer-based system with the
potential to revolutionize archival storage, inventory, and
research. The SDD can permanently store as many as
100,000 images of documents, maps, books, drawings,
and three-dimensional artifacts on a single 12-inch optical
disk the size of a phonograph record, using a high-
resolution digital camera. The permanent, high-quality
archival record thus created is easily and rapidly indexed
or searched by computer and can be safely transported or
shipped. The images may be reproduced on a printer or
telephoned to a facsimile machine anywhere in the world.
Public and private organizations ranging from county
school districts to the FBI have expressed an interest in the
system, and the museum has applied for a patent.

The variety and scope of fellowship programs and research
opportunities at the Smithsonian continues to grow. In
addition to the Rockefeller Residency Program in the
Humanities, new programs at the Smithsonian include the
Office of Museum Programs’ Native American Program
for North American Indians, Inuit, Aleut, Canadian
Natives, Alaskan Natives, and Native Hawaiians, which
in 1985 provided fourteen appointees with research oppor-
tunities designed to assist them to interpret and maintain
collections in their museums and archives.

The National Air and Space Museum created an Inter-
national Fellowship and announced the establishment of
the Martin Marietta Chair in Space History. The muse-
um’s new Office of University Programs co-hosted a coop-
erative program with New York University on the “History
of 2oth-Century Technology,’ an experiment in an innova-
tive course of study integrating museum resources into the
university curriculum.

The diversity of research opportunities at the Smithso-
nian could be seen in the range of the research undertaken
by the five Regents’ fellows in residence at the Institution
during the year. The subjects of their research included his-
torical aspects of African weaving, at the Museum of Afri-
can Art; placement of the VLBI antenna facility in orbit
around the Earth and research on high-energy physics, at
the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory; research on
science and technology artifacts, at the Museum of Ameri-
can History; and study of the biogeography of coral reefs
and islands, at the Museum of Natural History.

Publications programs at the Smithsonian produced a vari-

ety of works directed at specialized audiences and the gen-
eral public.

The Joseph Henry Papers published the fifth volume of
the papers of the Smithsonian’s first Secretary, document-
ing the years 1841-43.

At the Museum of African Art, a gift from The Shell
Companies Foundation awarded in February 1985 enabled
the department to begin a publication series. The first
book is titled The Art of African Kingdoms.

The Cooper-Hewitt Museum produced a handbook on
the rare-book collection and added a unique volume on
the design traditions associated with the history of wine,
Wine: Celebration and Ceremony, to its lengthy bibliogra-
phy. The museum also received a major grant from the
J.M. Kaplan Fund that will serve as seed money for future
publications.

The National Air and Space Museum issued the first
volume in a new series, National Air and Space Museum
Research Report (1984).

The Smithsonian Institution Press published the sixth
work in the series Smithsonian Studies in Air and Space,
United States Women in Aviation: 1930-1939. The impres-
sive list of books published by the SI Press this year
included Smithsonian Surprises, an activity book for chil-
dren; Space, Time, Infinity; Mystery of Comets; Miguel
Covarrubias Caricatures, to accompany the National Por-
trait Gallery exhibition, and Drawn From Nature: The
Botanical Art of Joseph Prestele and His Sons. Drawn
From Nature received the prestigious Art Director’s Club
of New York award as well as the New York Art Critics
Award.

With the increase in publishing activities, SI Press
stepped up its use of electronic publishing this year, receiv-
ing nine manuscripts either by telephone transmission or
on computer disks.

The Press’s Smithsonian Collection of Recordings divi-
sion released American Popular Song: Six Decades of
Songwriters and Singers. The seven-record set comes with
a booklet containing an essay on the history of song and
the various styles of singing, critical analysis of each per-
formance, and meticulously researched information about
the performers, composers, and lyricists. A previous set in
the series, Big Band Jazz: From the Beginnings to the Fif-
ties, won two Grammy awards.

29
Report of the Board of Regents

The first meeting of the Board of Regents was held on Jan-
uary 28, 1985, and opened with a tribute to the late Regent
William A. M. Burden. The Regents elected Mr. Johnson
to membership on the Executive Committee and nomi-
nated Mr. Barnabas McHenry of New York as a citizen
member of the Board. The Audit and Review Committee
reported on its meeting of November 20, 1984, held in the
National Museum of American History and at the
National Zoo’s Conservation and Research Center in
Front Royal, Virginia. The Personnel Committee reported
that it had reviewed the financial interests statements of
the executive staff and had found no conflict of interest
whatsoever. Discussing the report of the Investment Policy
Committee, the Treasurer agreed to present an analysis of
the Smithsonian’s investments in businesses operating in
the Republic of South Africa.

Secretary Adams initiated a “Secretary’s Report,’ an oral
presentation on a variety of topics which were quite tenta-
tive or of recent origin as the business of the Institution.
After the Treasurer presented reports on the status of fed-
eral and trust funds, fiscal years 1984-86, the Regents dis-
cussed and approved the Five-Year Prospectus, Fiscal Years
1986-90. In other major actions, the Regents voted to pro-
ceed with planning, design, and construction of food serv-
ice facilities on the basis of direct Smithsonian financing
and voted to seek authorization for the appropriation of
s11.5 million for one-half of the construction costs of the
Cooper-Hewitt Museum’s physical expansion. The Board
discussed at length the status of the Quadrangle construc-
tion and programming, inter-institutional cooperation,
legislation, the U.S. Postal Service’s possible establishment
of a National Postal Museum, the endowment of the
George E. Burch Fellowship, the U.S. Patent Model Foun-
dation, and the programs of the Visitor Information and
Associates’ Reception Center. The Regents also received
status reports on equal opportunity and affirmative action,
personnel matters, the Museum Support Center and col-
lections management, other major construction projects, a
gift for the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, the
Eastman House Collection, litigation, and television.

The Regents’ dinner was held at the Supreme Court on
the preceding evening, January 27, in honor of Secretary
and Mrs. Adams. The Chancellor officially welcomed the
guests, toasted the President, and introduced the Vice
President who spoke briefly about the Adamses and
offered a toast in their honor. After thanking the Vice Pres-
ident, Mr. Adams conveyed his impressions of the nation’s
capital and the extent to which the efficiency of official
Washington is enhanced by less formal relationships and
gatherings such as the Regents’ dinners.

30

The Chancellor called to order the next meeting of the
Board of Regents on Monday, May 6, 1985. In their first
action, the Regents reviewed recent developments regard-
ing the Smithsonian’s efforts to improve museum restau-
rant facilities and operations and agreed that the
Chancellor should appoint an ad hoc committee of the
Regents to review the subject of Smithsonian restaurant
services and the Institution’s various options. The Execu-
tive Committee reported on its April 10, 1985, meeting and
the Audit and Review Committee reported on its March 21
meeting at the National Zoological Park.

In connection with the report of the Investment Policy
Committee, the Regents discussed the nature of the Institu-
tion’s investments in companies doing business in the
Republic of South Africa, expressed grave concern regard-
ing South Africa’s policy of apartheid, and decided that
non-signatories should be queried as to their reasons for
not signing the Sullivan Principles. The Treasurer noted
that, as instructed by the Investment Policy Committee,
the Institution will vote all proxies with special attention
to matters pertaining to South Africa and other social
issues. The Board of Regents accepted the recommenda-
tion of the Investment Policy Committee and approved for
fiscal year 1986 a total return income payout rate of $8.27
for the endowment funds.

The Regents received and discussed reports on the 1985
and 1986 appropriated and non-appropriated trust funds.
After Mr. Adams gave his Secretary’s Report, he
announced with regret that Under Secretary Hughes
would soon retire, whereupon the Regents unanimously
adopted the following Resolution:

Whereas Phillip S. Hughes has imparted unfailingly wise

counsel to the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian

Institution since 1977;

Whereas Phillip S. Hughes has given of himself unstint-
ingly as Under Secretary of this Institution for over five
years; and

Whereas Phillip S. Hughes has brought to the Smithso-
nian a profound sense of the responsibilities of effective
and honorable public administration: Now, therefore,

be it

Resolved by the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian
Institution, That the Board expresses its gratitude for his
manifold and extraordinary services to the Smithsonian
Institution and wishes him every happiness in his well-
deserved retirement; and be it further

Resolved, That this resolution be embodied in a suitable
and permanent record.

Mr. Adams pointed out that with Mr. Hughes’ enthusiastic
endorsement he had concluded that Dean Anderson is well
qualified to assume the responsibilities as Under Secretary,
and after discussion with the Regents he announced his
intention to appoint Mr. Anderson as Under Secretary
upon Mr. Hughes’ retirement.

Among other major actions, the Regents approved the
purchase of an extraordinary collection of African art
assembled over the years by Mr. Emile Deletaille; reap-
pointed Mary Barnes, R. Philip Hanes, Jr., Richard Hunt,
Charles Parkhurst, Jean Seth, and Virginia Wright and
appointed Sharon Rockefeller to the Commission of the
National Museum of American Art; established the
National Zoological Park Medal for outstanding services
to zoological science and conservation and the National
Air and Space Museum Trophy for extraordinary service in
air and space science and technology, and accepted the
Annual Report of the Secretary for Fiscal Year 1984.

Major reports presented to the Regents covered the
Smithsonian Volunteer Program, the potential remodeling
and expansion of the Natural History Building, and the
Eastman House Collections. The Secretary also gave sta-
tus reports on the Quadrangle, the Museum Support Cen-
ter and collections management, other major construction
projects, the Patent Model Collection, the 1985 Festival of
American Folklife, legislation, litigation, and television
and film.

On Sunday evening, May 5, the Chancellor and the
Regents were hosts to a dinner in the Castle in honor of
members of the National Board of Smithsonian Associates
and other high-level donors to the Quadrangle project.
After dinner the Chancellor welcomed the guests and the
Secretary presented the Founder Medal of the James
Smithson Society to Mr. William S. Anderson, a major
donor and tireless chairman of the committee of National
Board members whose work brought a total of 3.7 mil-
lion in contributions toward the Quadrangle.

The Chancellor called the third meeting of the year to
order on Monday morning, September 16. The Regents
welcomed Mr. McHenry to his first meeting as a Regent
and voted to renominate Messrs. Humelsine and Bowen to
serve additional terms as members of the Board. The
Executive Committee reported on its meeting of August 27
and the Audit and Review Committee reported on its
meeting of August r. It was noted that the Chancellor had
appointed Senator Sasser, Messrs. Conte and Mineta, and
Regent Emeritus Haskins as the ad hoc committee of the
Regents to review the subject of Smithsonian restaurant
services.

The Investment Policy Committee reported on its special

August 21 meeting to discuss Smithsonian investments in
companies doing business in South Africa and the Board of
Regents considered the Committee’s recommendations.
The Regents were unanimous in their personal abhorrence
of the system of apartheid in the Republic of South Africa
and further agreed that, in the face of a fluid and rapidly
changing situation both at home and in South Africa, no
formal statement of the Regents would be issued on the
Institution’s investment policy; that the basic position of
the Board was manifested in the action taken by the Exec-
utive Committee in June to divest of the Institution’s hold-
ings in American companies involved in South Africa who
had not subscribed to the Sullivan Principles; that the Sec-
retary be requested to continue to work with the Regents
and to prepare materials concerning alternative courses of
action, consistent with the Institution’s policies and
resources, for possible consideration at the Regents’ subse-
quent meeting; and that the Secretary should convey these
conclusions to the press following the meeting.

Other major actions by the Regents included the
approval of modifications to the 1985 trust fund budget,
the 1986 federal and trust fund budgets, and the Institu-
tion’s 1987 federal budget submission to the Office of
Management and Budget, discussion of a draft of the Five-
Year Prospectus, Fiscal Years 1987-1991, and Construction
Priorities, endorsement of the purposes of legislation
authorizing the planning and construction of facilities for
the National Air and Space Museum at Dulles Airport,
preliminary consideration of a proposal of the Washington
Dulles Task Force to construct an interim facility for the
Air and Space Museum to exhibit the space shuttle Enter-
prise at Dulles, approval of the purchase of the Vever Col-
lection of rare Persian art, establishment of the Regents’
Publication Program to encourage extraordinary scholarly
contributions from the staff, approval in principle for the
launching of a new magazine entitled Air & Space, and
authorization for the redistribution of the Hirshhorn spe-
cial collections among other Smithsonian museums and
the establishment of an endowed acquisition fund for the
Hirshhorn Museum. After they appointed Nancy Graves
and Myron Kunin to the Commission of the National
Museum of American Art and Michael Collins, W. John
Kenney, and R. W. B. Lewis to the Commission of the
National Portrait Gallery, the Regents reappointed Rose-
mary Carroon, Joanne duPont, Harmon Goldstone,
August Heckscher, Karen Johnson Boyd, Russell Lynes,
Kenneth Miller, Amanda Burden, Arthur Ross, Robert
Sarnoff, and Marietta Tree to the Cooper-Hewitt Advisory
Council.

After Mr. Adams concluded his Secretary’s Report, he

31
discussed the renovation of the Arts and Industries Build-
ing and relocation of the Woodrow Wilson International
Center for Scholars. He also drew the Regents’ attention to
status reports on the Smithsonian’s international activities,
the National Science Resources Center, a planned exhibi-
tion on the Information Age, programs for the bicenten-
nial of the Constitution, planning for the 1992 Quincen-
tennial, the Quadrangle and other major construction
projects, the Museum Support Center storage equip-
ment, the Postal History Museum, personnel matters,
legislation, litigation, the Cooper-Hewitt Capital Cam-
paign, and television and film. In addition, the Secretary
mentioned the forthcoming annual meeting of the
Smithsonian Council and he invited the Regents to attend.

On Sunday evening, September 15, the traditional
Regents’ Dinner was hosted by the Chancellor and the
Board of Regents in the Lerner Room of the Hirshhorn
Museum and Sculpture Garden. After dinner Mr. Adams
welcomed the Regents and their guests and offered brief
remarks about his perceptions of Washington upon the
completion of his first year as Secretary. The Chancellor
spoke in honor of Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan and,
as voted by the Board of Regents, presented to him the
Henry Medal and a citation. Senator Moynihan expressed
his gratitude to the Regents for this honor and his appreci-
ation for his affiliation with the Hirshhorn Museum and
the Smithsonian. The Ambassador of India, the Honor-
able K. Shankar Bajpai, moved by the occasion, spoke of
his country’s great respect and appreciation for the
Smithsonian and the Senator.

32

Financial Report

Ann R. Leven, Treasurer

Fiscal year 1985 was one of transition, selective growth,
and financial stability for the Institution. Federal appropri-
ations enabled the Institution to fund budgeted programs
and to proceed with needed repairs and renovations to
Smithsonian facilities. An increase in trust fund revenues
supported new initiatives during Robert McC. Adams’
first year as Secretary. The Treasurer’s Office itself bustled
with activity as fiscal policies came under review, a minor
reorganization took place, and new ideas percolated. A
dedicated staff made the year one of substantial accom-
plishment.

Operations

For the fiscal year ending September 30, 1985, the federal
government provided $164,321,000 to fund ongoing opera-
tions, an increase of $7.6 million over the previous year.
This additional federal funding provided support for infla-
tionary cost increases and important program initiatives.
Incorporated in the congressional action, however, was a
two percent reduction applied to each line item in the bud-
get. This across-the-board reduction, combined with the
receipt of only partial funding for the costs of legislated
Pay raises, required the curtailment of purchasing and hir-
ing throughout the Institution, as well as the undesired
limitation of summer evening visiting hours.

There has been a great deal of discussion both inside the
Institution and by outside parties concerning the percent-
age of operating support actually provided by federal
appropriation versus that provided by the net income
available from endowments, museum shop sales, and
other revenue-generating trust activities sources. The ques-
tion is easily answered by the following chart:

Source Gross Net Net
of Funds Revenues Income Income %
(In $1,000s) (In $1,000s)
Federal
Appropriation $164,321 $164,321 75%
Federal Gr. and
Contracts 15,653 15,653 ih
All Trust
Sources 157,841 38,480 18
Total Avail-
able for
Operations $337,815 $218,454 100%

Included with this narrative are charts which graphically
spell out how Smithsonian funds available for operations
were allocated.

Federal appropriations provide the core support for the
Institution’s continuing programs in research, exhibitions,
education, and collections management, including related
administrative and support services. Substantial sums go
for maintenance and protection of the collections and
physical plant. During fiscal year 1985 major new funding
was provided for the replacement of scientific equipment;
for Quadrangle-related activities of the National Museum
of African Art, the Sackler Gallery, and the Libraries; for
research activities of the National Museum of Natural His-
tory; for exhibition activities at the National Museum of
American History, including a program to commemorate
the Bicentennial of the Constitution; and for enhanced
guardianship and maintenance.

Support from federal agencies in the form of grants and
contracts constitutes an important source of research mon-
ies for the Institution while also benefiting the granting
agencies by providing access to Smithsonian expertise and
resources. Sponsored research conducted during fiscal year
1985 included continuing work on the algal turfs and the
Caribbean king crab mariculture, systematics of Aedes
mosquitoes, development of an optical interferometer
which will substantially improve the ability to measure
the angular position of stars, and development of a
community-based science education program.

Income from nonappropriated trust fund sources includ-
ing gifts, grants, endowments, current investments, and
revenue-producing activities allowed the Institution to
undertake new ventures and enhance existing programs
in a way that might not otherwise have been possible.
Notable in this regard was the establishment of a Special
Exhibitions program to help support major temporary
exhibitions. The highly successful Aditi exhibition held in
the Evans Gallery of the National Museum of Natural
History was one of the first of these specially funded exhi-
bitions. Funding for the Directorate of International
Activities, which will coordinate programs for the
Smithsonian’s new International Center, and for the Coun-
cil of Overseas Research Centers reflected a new Smithso-
nian emphasis on international exchange and cooperation.

Two awards programs were significantly augmented by
trust funds: Fellowships and Scholarly Studies. The Fel-
lowship program provides stipends to visiting scholars,
enabling them to use the collections and resources of the
Smithsonian. The Institution’s Scholarly Studies program
makes grant awards covering research assistance, travel,
and special supplies to Smithsonian scientists and scholars

for individual research projects. Research needs were also
served when the Institution allocated monies to convert the
24 in.-diameter telescope at the Whipple Observatory at
Mt. Hopkins, Arizona, into a 48 in.- diameter telescope.

Smithsonian collections benefited from trust fund avail-
ability during fiscal year 1985. Anticipating the opening of
the Quadrangle, the National Museum of African Art
acquired a notable collection of sixty-one objects, ranging
in date from the twelfth to the fifteenth centuries A.D. to
the mid-twentieth century. In addition, monies were set
aside for the Hirshhorn Museum to purchase contempo-
rary art.

Substantial funds were also made available for computer
enhancement, as the Institution continues its efforts to
improve administrative efficiency and collections accessi-
bility. It is also instructive to note that trust funds enabled
the Smithsonian to assist the Visions Foundation to pub-
lish its new magazine of Afro-American culture. The first
issue of American Visions is scheduled to appear in con-

junction with the first Martin Luther King, Jr., national
holiday.

Special Foreign Currency Program

Foreign currencies, accumulated primarily from sales of
surplus agricultural commodities under Public Law 83-480
and determined by the Treasury Department to be in
excess of the current needs of the United States, are made
available to the Institution through the Special Foreign
Currency appropriation. In fiscal year 1985, the Smithso-
nian obligated $9,258,000, equivalent in excess currencies,
for scientific work primarily in India but also in Pakistan,
Burma, and Guinea. The monies were made available to
United States institutions for research and advanced pro-
fessional training in fields of traditional Smithsonian inter-
ests and competence. The reserve for the American
Institute of Indian Studies was increased by $3.9 million,
and the third of four planned contributions was made to
the international effort to restore and preserve the ancient
city of Moenjodaro in Pakistan.

Construction and Plant Funds

Construction of the Quadrangle proceeded on schedule
during 1985. During the course of the year, a very large
pledge was deemed uncollectable and has been taken as
a write-off in the attached statements. This situation is
regrettable but will not jeopardize completion of the

33
project. All other major pledges have been collected or
are on a progress payment schedule.

On a more positive financial note, the Smithsonian
Tropical Research Institute received a commitment and
first payment on a pledge of s4,000,000 toward the con-
struction of the Earl $. Tupper Research and Conference
Center. Named after the father of the donor, the long-
needed building will provide conference space and updated
research facilities for the Institute.

Perhaps the biggest surprise of the year came when the
Institution put up for auction the gaily decorated yellow
1966 Rolls Royce once used by the Beatles. A donation to
the Cooper-Hewitt Museum for fundraising purposes from
John and Yoko Lennon, the car remained on the Institu-
tion’s books as an unaccessioned item since 1978. When
the flurry of bidding was over, the car brought the unprec-
edented sum of $2,086,450. Purchased by Mr. Jim Pattison,
the car will be an integral part of the 1986 World’s Fair to
be held in Vancouver, British Columbia. The funds gar-
nered by its sale have been deposited to benefit the
Cooper-Hewitt Museum.

Endowment

The Smithsonian’s Endowment Fund reached an all-time
high of 148,588,051 on September 30, 1985. It is important
to recognize that the Endowment’s recent growth can be
attributed in large part to successful investment manage-
ment and yearly additions drawn from revenues generated
by the Institution’s auxiliary activities.

The success of the Endowment is a living tribute to the
memory of Regent William A. M. Burden, who served as
Chairman of the Institution’s Investment Policy Committee
for fourteen years until his death on October 10, 1984.
Regent Carlisle H. Humelsine assumed the role of Acting
Chairman of the Investment Policy Committee at its fall
1984 meeting.

The Investment Policy Committee met three times dur-
ing the fiscal year to review the management of the endow-
ment funds. During the past year, the Institution has been
equity oriented; this posture served it well as the stock
market enjoyed an ebullient period during the summer of
1985. The Institution utilized the Total Return Income pol-
icy; total investment return is defined as yield (interest and
dividends) plus appreciation, including both realized and
unrealized gains. A portion of this return is made available
for expenditure each year, and the remainder is reinvested
as principal.

The Institution has four investment advisors: Fiduciary

34

Trust Company of New York, Batterymarch Financial
Management, Torray Clark and Company, and Rollert
and Sullivan Company, the successor to Granahan-Everitt.
Advisors are given full discretion as to asset allocation and
stock selection. At the suggestion of Batterymarch, in the
fall of 1984, the Institution invested in the Trustees Com-
mingled Fund-International Equity Portfolio. The hand-
some return provided by this investment along with the
substantial appreciation enjoyed by the domestic stock
market contributed to the endowment fund’s stellar per-
formance in 1985.

The Investment Policy Committee served as counsel to
the Regents on the difficult questions surrounding invest-
ments in companies doing business in South Africa. On
June 17, 1985, the Executive Committee of the Board of
Regents instructed the Smithsonian’s investment managers
to dispose of the Institution’s holdings in U.S. corpora-
tions which had not signed the Sullivan Principles, a code
of conduct for American companies operating in South
Africa. At the same time, the Executive Committee
directed the managers to make new investments only in
those corporations that were subscribers to the Sullivan
Principles or had no business interests in South Africa.
Parenthetically, the Smithsonian does not have and never
has had any direct investments in South Africa.

At their meeting on September 16, 1985, the last of the
fiscal year, the full Board of Regents reaffirmed the actions
of the Executive Committee. Mindful both of their fiduci-
ary obligations and of the Institution’s position in Ameri-
can society, the Regents continue to monitor events in
South Africa and developments in U.S. policy with respect
to that nation. The Smithsonian has joined with the South
Africa Research Consortium, a loose federation of thirty-
seven colleges and universities, to supplement currently
available information on the impact of investments on the
South African economy.

Financial Management Activities

The arrival of a new Treasurer set in motion a general reas-
sessment of the Institution’s financial management prac-
tices and procedures. Falling under the aegis of the
Treasurer is a diverse group of activities: Office of
Accounting and Financial Services, Investment Manage-
ment, Museum Shops, Mail Order Division, Parking,
Concessions, Product Licensing, and Risk Management.
With the exception of the Office of Accounting and Finan-
cial Services, the orientation is primarily on generating and
securing private funds. The Treasurer maintains a close
working relationship with the Budget Office, under the
Assistant Secretary for Administration, and the Office of
Membership and Development.

A significant part of 1985 was spent by the Treasurer
with assistance from staff and the Institution’s internal and
external auditors in assessing the capabilities of these
offices and establishing goals. Highest priority has been
given to maintaining the integrity of ongoing operations
while planning for extensive future automation that would
simplify record keeping, accelerate the processing of cash
disbursements, and enhance overall fiscal efficiency.

The need for more senior management, particularly in
the areas of investment management and long-term finan-
cial systems planning, became apparent as the assessment
progressed. Thus, in April 1985, John R. Clarke was pro-
moted to Assistant Treasurer for Financial Management
and Planning. Mr. Clarke has served the Institution in var-
ious capacities during his thirteen-year tenure, most
recently as Executive Assistant to the Treasurer and previ-
ously as Acting Budget Officer. His mandate is to oversee
the Institution’s working capital investment pool and
endowment accounting and to work with internal
resources in the development of new automated fiscal sys-
tems appropriate to the Institution’s needs.

Related Organizations

The Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars,
the National Gallery of Art, and the John F. Kennedy Cen-
ter for the Performing Arts were established by Congress
within the Institution. Each organization is administered
by its own board of trustees and reports independently on
its financial status. Fiscal, administrative, and other sup-
port services are provided the Woodrow Wilson Interna-
tional Center for Scholars on a reimbursement basis by the
Smithsonian; office space is made available for Center
operations. Administrative services are also offered by the
Institution on a contract basis to Reading is Fundamental,
Inc., and the Visions Foundation. An independent non-
profit corporation, the Friends of the National Zoo
(FONZ) operates under contract a number of beneficial
concessions for the National Zoological Park.

Accounting and Auditing
The Institution’s funds, federal and nonappropriated, are

audited annually by the independent public accounting
firm of Coopers & Lybrand. Their report for fiscal year

1985 is reprinted on the following pages. Coopers &
Lybrand’s consulting staff also provided assistance to the
Institution during the year at the request of the Treasurer.
Special studies were done with respect to payroll/
personnel systems and the handling of cash receipts.

The Smithsonian’s own internal audit staff regularly
reviews the Smithsonian’s activities and fiscal systems dur-
ing the year. Additionally, the Defense Contract Audit
Agency conducts an annual audit of grants and contracts
received from federal agencies and monitors allocated
administrative costs.

The Audit and Review Committee of the Board of
Regents, chaired by Regent David Acheson, met three
times during the fiscal year pursuant to their responsibili-
ties under the bylaws of the Institution. In addition to the
review of the 1984 audit performed by Coopers &
Lybrand, special attention was given by the committee to
the Institution’s Business Management activities and the
management of the National Zoo.

35
Smithsonian Institution Operating Funds

FISCAL VEARSHI6S, 1975, 19801984, 1985

(In $1,000,000’s)

FUNDS PROVIDED

325 |
300

325
FUNDS APPLIED
300

Yl

1980

a

Table 1 Financial Summary (In $1,000s)

FY 1983
INSTITUTIONAL OPERATING FUNDS
FUNDS PROVIDED:
Rederal/ Appropriations—salariesiQqExXpenSeS 2... oms ore sou orcs eee els $147,256
RederaleArency Grants1GG GOMELa CEs pcre uyiereierocrese: wcliegs ice elaine) eyeyartaranel eoueliss oer enorate 135125
Nonappropriated Trust Funds:
BomRestricted IPULpOSES Mercer oh Hare enosel sexe) cvetone wisereceeis'e anv ol ene! spalgisiembeiaes oxolente 9,162
For Unrestricted & Special Purposes:
Auxiliary & Bureau Activities Revenues—Gross ................20+2ee0ee 104,129
essiWelated! Ex pensesy-<.cyarq chp lron meron we siti nee eco seuss pot nee mae (89,397)
Auxiharyre BureauvActivities)Net Revenue =. .(...::-...0.+-ss0esee en eae 14,732
IMVESHIMEN ts | Gilt ce Otheuincomen wer jeseecce «oc ocs os cele ec aemae 4,302
Total Net Unrestricted & Special Purpose Revenue ..................--4-- 19,034
NotalJNonappropriated! Trust Funds—Gross .. 2... - 2.5. - eee eee ees 7593
EINGEM sore forcecre teres artieteesec sre cr aeemet nen eterele 28,196
Notal\@perating Funds Provided—Gross, ty..0 00 ernest iene « eye oie emis emcee eee 277,974
SIN Ctivrawene teens spares Tones o cyereniorevel ior bee cbomrateme $188,577
FUNDS APPLIED:
SSAA 4.4 245 WS Sb HOOT ORS Re OR SSIS CO ces Cen ees as ee a $ 68,895
essisA © OverheadsReCOVeEy i cyerc< cries iene sueyeus, cli) 31d) swcuchepsl ensioeie-svepeuere saa ae (2,264)
EAN ECO Tgy RCM NT Comet aye) ee rec roy aires SVeReVCN 3 soxrer cle Covenor ever +” <a ifey saeWeneyct =piev= ein) agsyeuev oly er Seis 30,979
PTL OICAS CIN ICC Me Sor eeo Iie iale- store cache te sen aset aes ev iehire'"s ia ahetons Be cota eos, Sameer ov ayeustrarer’ 2,843
RATA CUIATIN LALO PL ALIS ween ee cte Res agen ct sits sto Ke Nex psy Crt et aha: wells aay cmeMce ancliansi ny wedeme eke perenne 9,702
Mirectoratcoulmtermational ACtIVItES’ <)-/re.e lr eiei-ys ors ©) iene ayensl oh 26 sis ss ieiere elie _
PEGA RLO STAM Sweciaysic ssexcneranescee.s Shstey Shen sputene; gr evanes ovate -aPEe arene revs reneete aera Eas 13,342
NGSOGIates Oa businessiMianapementiyri as lols c/ Paid si 1s sith Sie) =| eee eis ole 1,057
Naministration=—hederal = msn 6 ene Saas se eens Mie ee oe ert oe 11,032
=—Nonapprapriated Inust Bunds <pycp- ss) 4.ct-. + <f-teis eter al« occueter=) sole e+ etenet oat cates 7,226
Messismithsontan OverheaduRecoverym emer <2 occ aehreie seleie a ekomieeeeies (6,331)
Pa Mites, SemPteas. bio oso bo Sere eee UP ORES AEA er aS. rene 43,653
otall@peratinpwbundsrAipplied 2). saree ceirn ns oe Scenes ces eee ose ees 180,134
Transfers (Nonappropriated Trust Funds)
Unmeganieueal Poms) EIN? 5 oc ed ooo cnoonposanenanacaebouarooooadcesé 2,069
= TOMENGOWIMENE davocovereiencve Lee 3s Oa eR, s sani odeweia Be enaiae 3,084
Restrctedskunds— lov ndowiment. =... ccsre.chetetencrers) esate elas oe cesta eater oe 637
itotali@perating Funds Applied 8 Transferred Out .-2.-....----.-+2005----- $185,924
CHANGES IN NONAPPROPRIATED TRUST FUND BALANCES:
Restricted Purpose (Incl. Fed. Agency Gr. & Contracts) ................-.-005- $ 1,765
Wrrestricted—“GenerallPurposem. vere cee os eee Le eee a elec melee wiisiecs 28
== SPECIAL OSE wager eat one fen Wetopere oveieiehewe ous vl oh oneens cifetcl chore ev omensnoits sieve 860
Seoteal eepsege se aeetee sieror neat ects fesoreroie enereT ater clare MOTORS eis ave iis) os, ga Me Doe b ernie $ 2,653
YEAR-END BALANCES—NONAPPROPRIATED TRUST FUNDS:
Raeateweral ] Pub {OLS 5c aguct erchkcs or CRED Eee on IO G Cee nCne ch eee een Cy ket Sac rR ee ary EASA
Wranestricted—GeneralliPurposes a.ectreseveus cle acistetasceere cers sevens vatateer evs er steasots eae 5,076
=O PECIAPUTPOSE Ute yarcueptysr Heuston eicce ss aeeters aie oasis GEE, Saoeaee ons 13,863
TROD ee cad cs Ren en ERttcL Of REAP REE Sten G CRED ORCU CR CRAECRS. |b cURBENR BIC 5 + as toner anny cee ae Rea $ 26,610
OTHER FEDERAL APPROPRIATIONS
Bpecialtkoreieni Gurrencyerogra mae eee eee ieee cei ioc icici else icie $ 2,000
(Comamatrertoyy GAs cape coe roIoe os Ooo tceciOG OOM GeO Cor RCI ohne Re 46,500
ilotaltFederal’Appropriations|(IncaSecE above) = se)4es siete oes @ cee eee @ $195,756

FY 1984

$156,683
14,878

10,182

117,550
(97,898)

19,652
5,057

24,709
132,789
34,891

304,350
$206,452

$ 74,134
(2,226)
33,011

3,526
10,976
14,805

884
12,201

8,211
(6,528)
46,821

195,815
3,424
Byauls

222

$202,774

$ 7,040

4,500
$168,223

*Includes unobligated funds returned to Treasury: FY 1983—$62,000; FY 1984—$102,000; FY 1985—$173,000.

FY 1985

$164,321
15,653

O29 3i7,

141,160
(119,361)

21799
6,744

28,543
157,841
38,480

337,815
$218,454

$ 80,586
(2,282)
36,208

4,480
11,159
642
14,654
930
11,549
7,814
(7,391)
48,576

206,925
20
3,014
129

$210,088

$ 587

$ 8,820

18,326
$191,467

37
Table 2 Source and Application of Operating Funds Year Ended September 30, 1985
(Excludes Special Foreign Currency Funds, Plant Funds and Endowments) (In $1,000s)

Nonfederal Funds
Total Unrestricted Restricted
Non- Grants
Federal federal Auxiliary Special and
Funds Funds Funds General Activities Purpose General Contracts
FUND BALANCES—10/1/84 ............. $ — $ 30,288 $5,086 $ — $16,105 $ 8,810 $ 287
FUNDS PROVIDED
Federal/Appropriations) s-.. <2 ~~ oer =< 164,321 oo a -- -- = —
Investment income! see oe +e. © oereciaerrncre — 8,421 4,137 os 645 3,639 —_
Grantsand!@ontractsiaa eno. © aeieieno sie _— 15,652 — ~ — — 15,652,
GiftSiacere eis DO ekatee soa Gerackee gees — 8,692 37 3,150 12 5,493 —_—
SalestandtReventielnvcareractss sists onieatm iene ote — 138,010 — 132,218 See. —_ —
(OX ntsc bud oe Gace A CREAT eIORROIS Wo o Odor Gio — 2,719 233 1,680 805 1
MotalkProvidedy ses seem. oss eee reer 164,321 173,494 4,407 135,368 8,129 9987 15,653
otalbAvarla blew arrstastexc acc oy skomtetereeer tease $164,321 $203,782 $ 9,493 $135,368 $24,234 $18,747 $15,940
FUNDS APPLIED
Science:
INGTSEADENASTA LIB) Matas Coen eo eC OOS SaaS $ SIGS AES Soe aS 96 $ — § 62'S) S228) Sanietios
Natl. Mus. of Nat. History/Museum of Man ... 20,194 4,610 65 — 1,791 1,691 1,063
Astrophysical/@bservatory ..:-....-.-------- 8,446 16,894 2,310 - 1,718 268 12,598
Messi@verheadiRecovery, ac. <6 «eilee erie = — (2,282) (2,282) —_ — — —
dropicallReseanchilnstituteye ease ee ails 3,554 ORAL 148 —_— 481 338 4
EnvironmentalResch. Genter <........0...0-- - 3,324 613 82 — 130 24 377
INatlAiniGaspacel Museum i-iers icles eee ior= 8,112 3,488 8 _ 3,127 252 101
Natl ZoolopicaliParksererle eres -reciieictare crs 11,104 562 110 _ 216 156 80° a
MWotaliSclence!s Weersa yas ce ee ek 55,250 26,411 537 _ Was) DOT 1S.3 92 |
History and Art:
AssistantsSecretany) fseeieb sca: oceans ci 401 5 5 — — — _- |
Natl MusvofAm. History ee.- .- ne eeees <- 11,081 1,461 355 — 797 268 |
INatleiMissiofAmentcanvAnteen eae 4,625 931 63 = Spl 315 2
INatlPortraitiGallerys sae sme een eee 3,407 326 13 -- 121 192 —_
Hirshhorn tuseum)- pase erie an cieieneicieciere 25923 491 14 — 258 219 —
Gentemfor AsianmvArt’ sph osc coe eee 1,549 2,247 56 — 59 2As2: —
Archivesiofamenican Art: asks cseieioeae 732 998 2 = 1 995 —
Cooper-tewitt Musenml s+. eee 880 2,156 720 —_— 944 421 Wilk
NatlaMussotAtricanvArt ee) eeieeneeier 1,188 763 600 = 105 58 _
ANacostraMitsenm! “joe ce oe ele oreieteie ie renetenete 817 39 38 _ = 1 —
Totaliistory andsArt ..- 444 see 27,603 9,417 1,866 — 2,836 4,601 114
Public Service:
INGEN SEERAEIOY Sooupooopeaboodnoo0ooc0 Paws 469 102 ao 289 78 —
Receptom@enteter = teieterjeiee ol-telstiel teria 181 663 662 = 1 — _
WelecommiuniGations: eyes es ass clersiaeuerenauenoden 213 686 522 _ 163 1 —
GiiinconbinlGsy Gaacus oacbomounouecccuus 1,124 13,753 _ 13,646 49 58 _
OfficcosbublicsAffainsie--eeisoee eee 559 336 325 — 10 ie =
Totallbublic Service ss a ~.0se eerie 2,294 15,907 1,611 13,646 Sl 138 =

Table 2 Source and Application of Operating Funds Year Ended September 30, 1985 (Continued)
(Excludes Special Foreign Currency Funds, Plant Funds and Endowments) (In $1,000s)

Funds

Museum Programs:

PASS istct tp SE GLELALy ime avyh cent) ia calsllatetcteteke) ausi.2
NEPA Stiea tages <papeyeyene /eusyce. Shirt See (Shetek aelaeec tiene
Conserv. Analytical Laboratory ...........
i braniesieas yee yeibeire Ses aivield @ <evereenisall
PE DICSMRR ners Seco aie Sissi eieielee ate wale
NravelineiExbibs Service @254- 2-2 = sls: =:
AT CRIVES HR eerie este sieisls ce tees ab

Special Programs

Amastudies Ceubolklife!Pom. ..2 6. come wes
[hates JENICO, Slee Saes aooe oc eos
Academic & Educational Pgm. ............
Collections Mgt./Inventory ..............
Museum suppor @enteme sen © ss syacen
ibKe Genter’ Grantig: <4. seseueiss-s =. s.2 isuseenens s1

otaliSpecialiProgramse-4- yee ee

PNSSOGIALE PLOPTAINS, seve ic ikjo ore eis sceneries
EISIMESS ata DeMENt os <5) esr es eertece sour
PVOIMIMISTLAODI evans. rte oe sieneicieis Meer es ee

Wess|@verheadi Recovery yee
HH ACIIIGIES! SERVICES org sa eda a ere sean eo, Vers cies

Transfers Out/(In):

PETG ASUILyessrers cieteeencicierale miaiai ie sealers oteaace
GollhAcgs,Schol.)St:,Outreach 5... 2eis..- -
NerAuxaliany Activities) sss )-c) seme:
Other Designated! Purposes) .. 5... . 9-55. =
ATL tae eee A yay seid: cus ie Means tiie ake, etorstene Sie

*Unobligated funds returned to Treasury

Nonfederal Funds

Total Unrestricted Restricted

Non- Grants

Federal federal Auxiliary Special and
Funds Funds General Activities Purpose General Contracts
$93 473 14 _— 81 376 D
32 = a = a on =n
1,097 29 -— — 29 —_— —
4,252 360 312 — 2 36 _
1,470 87 Ee = 87 se =
332 2,638 — 1,561 413 651 13

Silat 147 146 a 1 _

753 = = a = ae a
9,040 3,734 472 1,561 623 1,063 15
272 370 370 — — — —
698 1,380 514 — 503 320 43
680 as: = = ae = =
705 2,004 370 _— LESS 82 —
1,019 = is = az sy m
7,484 83 — — 83 = =
686 = = 5 = i Ss
272: 3,467 884 — 2,138 402 43
— 69,155 857 68,214 56 24 4
_— 30,334 oo 30,334 — — —
11,376 8,986 7,072 78 i722: 114 —
= 7,391 3ou — — = a2
47,041 WSW/S) 1,422 — 146 wh —
Be — _ _- = - —
— -- 2,700 — (2,700) — _—
— — (20,720) 20,720 _— — —
— _ 11,655 815 (12,470) — —
= 20 20 ae = = =
_— 3,143 3,000 — 14 129 —
173 3,163 (3,345) Pailesystey (IIS; 511555) 129 —
$164,321 $165,128 $ 4,355 $135,368 $ 402 $ 9,435 $15,568
$ — $ 38,654 $ 5,138 $ — $23,832) $)95312" $372

ahs)
Table 3 Grants and Contracts—Expenditures (In $1,000s)

Federal Agencies FY 1983 FY 1984 FY 1985
Agency tomntermationali Development ans. 4a ae eee eee $ — $ 428 $ 828
Departmentiot Commences seer. sheers terasi os otis ace EI RCI eters (7) OY) 87
Departmentio defense rnay nena ccve) -rokens exci ssieye-4o81 acy IO eee CRI eco crer 1,299 1,056 1,245
DepartimentioWE ner sya cary yes cesar raledocers ce evs «oti ast aueeevare eye ohne enna re herenersiotel 358 227 260
Deparsmentiotltealthiand|Elumanisenvices saree tera eee eee 280 273 438
DepartmentoflntertOn iccrspeceia secs 3 cose 415 a.cyare apace coat MMe ee eeaeuae ears orererees 238 204 196
National/Aeronautics'and|Space Administration =... see aeeenes cece oe. Ossi 11,275 11,425
INationallScrence/Foundationas as eer: oo ooo ee ee eee eee 928 820 895
Otherness ers arc hi, a Ree «Ge ees 415 501 194

Joell SOR, Sohal hos Cee nen RE RR Reo otis ni ait Asia Gal Set nla aoa ois ale $13,062 $14,841 $15,568

*Includes $197,000 (FY 1983), $399,000 (FY 1984), and $495,000 (FY 1985) in subcontracts from other organizations receiving
prime contract funding from NASA.
**Includes $196,000 (FY 1983), $250,000 (FY 1984), and $321,000 (FY 1985) in NSF subcontracts from the Chesapeake Research
Consortium.

Table 4 Restricted Operating Trust Funds*
Fiscal Years 1983-1985 (In $1,000s)

Fund
Net balance
Total Transfers increase end of
Item Investment Gifts Miscellaneous revenue Deductions in (out) (decrease) Year
BY 983—lotalleia nie sane $2,971 $5,419 $ 772 $ 9,162 $6,823 $(637) $1,702 $7,421
BY 984——Totallevsn sere siete $3,236 $5,859 $1,087 $10,182 $8,571 $(222) $1,389 $8,810
FY 1985:
National Museum of Natural
FLIStOnys cies eee enns © $1279 So See 18 $ 1,889 $1,691 $ (11) $ 187 $1,530
Astrophysical Observatory ... 84 159 — 243 268 3 (22) (38)
Tropical Research Institute ... 55 546 o 601 338 10 Pf) 508
National Air and Space
IMUSeUIM see tcrleseererer ners 89 259 2 350 252 — 98 1g
National Zoological Park .... 25 100 —_ 125 156 _ (31) 118
@therSciences tances eae 135 131 _ 266 252 (128) (114) 578
National Museum of American
HIStory? cris oc cies eects 80 491 3 574 268 — 306 833
National Museum of American
IAT eS suas Sess epee eens 93 400 5 498 SS) — 183 663
National Portrait Gallery ..... 19 139 — 158 192 — (34) 145
Hirshhorn Museum ......... 70 1 — Wil 219 _ (148) 588
Center for Asian Art ........ 1,256 26 539 1,821 2,132 — (311) 1,241
Archives of American Art .... 34 578 206 818 995 = (177) 353
Cooper-Hewitt Museum ..... 94 642 28 764 421 _ 343 1,036
Traveling Exhibition Service .. 87 522 —_ 609 651 — (42) 888
PATO th emis excn yess, <i sviend acres whens 239 907 4 1,150 1,156 (3) (9) 692
TeyallleNC ORS Seonoor $3,639 $5,493 $ 805 $ 9,937 $9,306 $(129) $ 502 $9,312

*Does not include Federal Agency Grants and Contracts

40

Table 5 Unrestricted Trust Funds—General and Auxiliary Activities
Fiscal Years 1983-1985 (In $1,000s)

Item

FUNDS PROVIDED

General Income:

IN CSENIEH COMBA ASE CES ion Roy opera nec ismeL Me se eh eiene Moers. Ns sane uoasne oa ene Gugioreeene
KGET MRT HD elie Rewarvon or cimcrrorranls ovremayione: cihapeMemeles come onaileWaloushvoniieiian ste wanna OER

MofaliGenerallinComes cope stosvc caer Woche es casnche apeuei eis auieue- Maanehene urevens

Auxiliary Activities Income (Net):

ESSSOSEAIGS csc sR SGER ESRC ONCOPROTEIN ri

Business Management:

= MUselm Shopsand Mail: Orders. aacthic ines sees onale se we neapeaee ©
==(@ancessions barking and FOOd SEEVIGES | oe 5. o 5s sk eon ess cee cm en
ACTING? cross blot d GI Olds 0 sce CT CR Rar oe in Peet Sct ee

Mravelinoseexi ICONS) sh seins caret aeee Saree tise SiS ace eee tetaia did oe Susieretere
PO CORSCLV ACES Tere er ence ater ane eyes eek et cranes nates fs ta caer ents, a.5/< cs, dia seus fenders

MotallAuxalianyyA Ctivities, <ecers ens cia.ssisloine oie. siaie.e oieieiss: aieete ere snsiessuels

otaljbundsibrovidedt((Net)itc- scieractecsetie co cies cools cree etre onci enero

EXPENDITURES AND TRANSFERS

Administrative andybropramie:xpense's.:s-2 2 lei. 2 ie ia ses sae lap ee eee
Biss GPACAIIMISETATL VE RECOVELY) ciioi cic eicneis. sel o01e si ene-e. ere ccd/n si aare. 5 sii ae A meieiens

INGE ESI REISS 6.01 ora Pinto 0 SESE CEOs BIAe DGC IO Oe Reino aera AMO iO ch

Less Transfers:

lospectalyburposeitor/Propram\Purposes) a.)- a6 ee ieleeusele cles oi eres
MopPlantaband Sa hrsncsscrescis facie asic ee erence Save kids ie nctinee eee males

NE WwADDINION TOPUND BAIANCGE, {7 iyetcre <1 csaloro ov elena eno) eter

EIN DINGIEUND BALANCE, t.c..0 cytes i: ols mae scl ae os we omens es cles

FY 1983

FY 1984

FY 1985

41
Table 6 Auxiliary Activities Fiscal Years 1983-1985 (In $1,000s)

Sales
and
other
Activity revenue
YGEED SS Meewrrete tr tee men PRN Se ik ie an 5 ESM TEIE otano sina de reiaeaT abe $ 98,826
ENGI. SA teeters crcetta ec tent creak le ee suc «a andes Bane anveRMaa re $112,179
FY 1985:
JSR OCIE RED 5 Sb 'as6 fetus OO aS eo SEOROM: CHE REP OR RERE ER SRE era ener Pee $ 78,582
Business Management:
= WAMSEUM US NOP SY eu toncteity sists yaiel oie fake eye sie, vaitsiel eb epeenaanipeerere 33,668
== GONCESSIONS/ Parkin ewenacie accn 4 Seitneets elles exeicic Ree. sekerene 2,652
= @ there eee trae iavats. <<) Stebonewsse icrse olese clos BIBI ee 155
SmithsonianJRnessier oe tata hic oo ae ee eee ee ee 15,821
ravelingyexhibitions aces cies <sre aeleas.4 oes a mionaks oew easier 1,250
Bhotowenvices (Administration) assis ee oe os eciceee cies 90
MocalWB Ya OS Samrat terete tos, rrateicud ain sialeanesacse $132,218

*Includes Museum Shops and Mail Order.

Less
cost of
Gifts sales

S2SU7 AN SS7RS27

$2,698 $65,309

$3,150 $52,736

_— 18,272

—_— 4,908
— 667
— 10

$3,150 $76,593

Gross
revenue

$43,470

$49,568

Net
revenue* *
(loss)

$13,832

$19,013

**Before revenue-sharing transfers to participating Smithsonian bureaus of $486,000 (FY 1983); $638,000 (FY 1984); and $815,000

(FY 1985).

42

Table 7 Unrestricted Special Purpose Funds

Fiscal Years 1983-1985 (In $1,000s)

Item

EN UIP) epee ee romene
ENCUSGY » tesa proineainonis

FY 1985:
National Museum of
Natural History .....
Astrophysical
@bservatory ==: .-<<
Astrophysical
Observatory
Computer Center ....
Tropical Research
WNStIEUEE restate lores vies
National Air and Space
IMIDE soo orcuciotnom
Environmental Research
(CONG vee eae

Ranheeeh. Seca aiten as
National Museum of
American History ...
National Museum of
American Art .......
National Portrait
Gallery jcc) scecis s16 3.
Hirshhorn Museum ... .
Cooper-Hewitt Museum
National Museum of
PAUTIGANUATE 6. o.0 ce
Office of
Telecommunications .
Liability Reserves .....
Unallocated Coll. Acq.,
Schol. Studies,
Outreach and Spec.
[eseinvloy, 95 Siero ie 3
Fellowships ..........
Museum Support Center
Equipment ... 4-95:
Traveling Exhibition
SERVICE ieee oe ome
Smithsonian Central
Computer Center ....
PO ther’s,-o5 oe soe

TotaliPY 19851 2. -

Investment

$686

$679

251

Revenue
Gifts
and
Bureau other

activities revenue

Total
revenue

Deductions

Bureau
activity
expense

$3,132 $1,057

$4,875

$2,673 $1,241

Sreiete eS yA
546 27
606 =
193 bs

2,204 240
34 5

a 480

41 102

9 99

12 22

= 66
786 198

3 19

53 =

= 56
1,061 34
242 297

SSI Ze o1e692

$4,593

Fund
balance
end of
year

$13,863

$16,105

446

3,316
$23,832

Table 8 Special Foreign Currency Program
Fiscal Yeat 1985—Obligations (In $1,000s)

Systematic
and Astrophysics
environmental and earth Museum Grant
Country Archaeology biology sciences programs Administration Total
Inidiamerseneyrerserseys a-axse ae ere $6,932 $262 $236 $42 $632* $8,104 |
Bakistanwe site ts avexacts-s crave ciers ous era ss 1,095 10 15 — 7 1,127
BETTI ae serscoe aise sets Sso ds she enoue geisha oes = — 5 — 1 — 6
Guinea crs secs ce orcs etre Bes evasre 21 — — = — 21
slotall eit: cen aereeies. cco we Sota $8,048 $277 $251 $43 $639 $9,258
*Includes $475,500 for translation services in support of all programs.
Table 9 Construction and Plant Funds
Fiscal Years 1983-1985 (In $1,000s)
Sources FY 1983 FY 1984 FY 1985
FUNDS PROVIDED
Federal Appropriations:
INational’Zoologicall Park (:.cy.c1s,crsheete = «1c « eislers ioc .cie ice gotta’ SRI cus eat $ 1,550 $ 3,500 $ 4,851
Restorationand/ Renovation Of Buildings ise) cieis ine ee eile einer einer 8,450 9,000 13,475
@uadranglemsy. = 5.50 Ree 6s arn ages eee ays ade G wien SRR Oee a, ee eee 36,500 (8,000) _
slotallederallAppropriationsy \rpcmy.ve)-vers credsyer eal reise oes toeeeeie nate 46,500 4,500 18,326
Nonappropriated Trust Funds:
Income—Gift and Other
Smithsonian Environmental Research Center—Gain on Sale ..............-. 44 a —
Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute—Research Facilities ..............-. 66 20 B73
Erection of jacksonvillejBandstandyem yer iene ie iieisie eiitele ieien teeters 174 i172 3)
Cooper blewitt Muselmircrsmeersrencrorierers stories meio tel etel= e)-l/oretats cieycar tenons 163 32 2,544
American Artjand Portrait Gallery Buildings: .- «.. + secie ee = ele seers es 2 21 20
@uadranglerandiRelated arr stasis cielo arepieicls susiech ue tcuars ove cieete. ey haere 14,574 8,098 1,908**
Smithsonian Institution Building South Entrance .................0-0008- 5 3 1
Belmont Gonference’ Genter—Gain on'Sale .. 5... 5220-00 2c ese e ce ceence 1,405* = oa
Florticulture’Antique!Greenhouse . saci = sce srascise sie oie erste ele <revele tole «r= _ 16 _
cL Raye UU Kaeo) 19 (as en OnE Bacteria Oe aus onsite ronc tick THO CCR GYSTCRS oo.c: CRORE RACE IOI 16,452 8,202 4,849
Transfers from Current Funds:
NationalMuseum/ofiAfricaniArte seme eee eee coat cle iciciae = eee 24 24 20
Quadrangles is... asso )ecvcias ave) aaeeee Tere Sed Re one renee ce yctinucas a ean oyenereK 2,040 2,700 _—
East Garden Bkbr..s cic ante s-< nc wrt eiee Sete Ore INE aoe iessyMeecrsicaveueo & 5 = _
Secretaries’ Residence s.c..s.0-4, 4, Ae eserves oy cte ve oe Osi etec — 700 _
otal Transfers) ..3,:5:0:SReleke <0 ec Re occa eee orn noes craters 2,069 3,424 20
Wotabkunds: Provided. .< sx 2a... eka Oe Le eo nee ore $65,021 $16,126 $23,195

*Total proceeds realized of $1,993,000; of which $1,750,000 was directed to construction of the Museum Support Center and

$208,000 was transferred to endowment funds.

**In the application of Plant Funds for this project, a $4,000,000 pledge receivable was written off as uncollectible.

44

Table 10 Endowment and Similar Funds September 30, 1985

Book Value

ASSETS

Pooled Consolidated Endowment Funds:
KOS DPAIGPE UV. ALEMIUS) a terete cee ala ese ee ti058 © suave lea el ote a telin: aint os ste arava) c, Solace meNeNeeocetsrees
HOMES 9 6.8 5 Sic aoe Nea Re EN PR OR EIB EO

‘Thoviail Roo eal Fora Bees ss snes ect eck Orca Eee es RSs EOP Sroicheiee,

Nonpooled Endowment Funds:
MoanirolO ronlreasuny in PEnpetuity,. cia yc)c.e:c:rcicuerelars «i sveiafenei « sale ye faycgnloretsne, =. sveeerata oes
INOLesmNecelya Dlerrrrn ns cnn etn ct enietentr ne be vnieratns bata te, shel neta cern eee
BS OUOSMPE ae siee sie ere etna, sc hols Sead Seareyien s S¥ous ave SS Eee Sear oeneiaes Ones

orallNonpoolediFunds: .2/0.5.tactos snes sass Soe vnc arn deans omen

Motabendewmentand Similar Fund Balances’ -..-0..2.0-c6ss-scensueeacceescseue

FUND BALANCES

iirestrctedshurpose-i@lnile EH NdOWIMEMt. <tes «) <peusuetaiel 218126 eis suayele «cies easter eesyelo aoc
@uasiendowmentince i aciacie ees ec eee ioe eget eveite Or

MotallWmrestricted PUurpOSe se yess) oie ssent, wis 6) eenaeie 2 Gussie sue o's wisp ee sues ee slo ea

esticredsbucpose: Mme ENGCOWMENE tie sie «aro. Sia wi Beto 1s careers se ee
@uasitiendOwment sci si. tats sana wets essa te ais Ges ebeMaps, estos eres

NotallRestricted(PUrLpose: s.0%6 papper «deepens: <i sis aie ceomnis ava Gapmencseye wenden

Wotall/Endowment and Similar Fund Balances ..........00.00+0ce sce ceens nesses:

SLOSS St 07
9,464,055
3,753,813

103,587,334

136,156,309

1,287,754

$137,444,063

$ 4,537,800

58,957,335
63,495,135

54,875,497

19,073,431
73,948,928
$137,444,063

Market
Value

$ 19,351,107
10,399,674
3,266,500
114,282,790

147,300,071
1,000,000
40,754

10,226
237,000

1,287,980

$148,588,051

$ 5,469,631

61,073,854
66,543,485

61,360,250

20,684,316
82,044,566
$148 ,588,051

45
Table 11 Market Values of Pooled Consolidated Endowment Funds (In $1,000s)

Fund 9/30/81
MW mes tricteclemewn ay -yoyarcvere MRA suceantey Sicua Sore, wr Gries enter eueeieyehe $30,399
LBS ee acotien Aid Gt Cee RC RCReNCy 0. Cid oo cBkl cca ee NCC 20,472
@hemRestricteds stan ae se cksiees seo chee slshavocs nee eS 27,101

Boo tiall terpenes erese nck eb eretie ect. 2 lols: sue @idi'ensis senend eatrenenpeys $77,972

Table 12 Changes in Pooled Consolidated Endowment Funds for Fiscal Year 1985 (In $1,000s)

Market
value
Fund 9/30/84
Wnxestruicted anaes seco Sy 56,592.
Leer qa chetrtatoans wrot os otters 31,125
@themRestricted’ =... .-.-o.- a -s 43,396
AKofeel lw yet es ean Ne 2 $131,113

Gifts
and

transfers

$3,056
332
$3,388

Interest
and

dividends*

$2,885
1,582
222

$6,679

*Income earned, less managers’ fees of $555,507

46

9/30/82 9/30/83 9/30/84
$35,974 $ 54,677 $ 56,592
22,596 32,096 SH DS)
30,288 43,911 43,396
$88,858 $130,684 $131,113
Income Market
paid value
out Subtotal appreciation
$1,583 $ 60,950 $ 4,454
skal 31,576 2,490
1,581 44,359 3,471
$4,295 $136,885 $10,415

9/30/85

$ 65,404
34,066
47,830

$147,300

Market
value
9/30/85

$ 65,404
34,066

47,830
$147,300

Table 13 Endowment Funds September 30, 1985

UNRESTRICTED PURPOSE—TRUE:

AUGinY TRGTANGE” oo QEeee tos On RR IRERERET of Gre) oo tena emer we
Buicheowlkacnoya Memorial 0... 5. fie ats =. os. oe dere
“igalelbime Trial (Gin Ole Gemieie Hens oo cle be ioe inno tro
‘wioraranys ID Kya ne Wao, Poe ee enGionci.e che C1 aennic wo cleiGia. oo
BMINISSIMERA EEC sereitc, o.2.c alors c-amWope eters rs ackve 20 eves
FO li Stec ite emuAcen cy ees sso < opeaeteee Geer ape sacs. a sae wena
PoorewsucyMlsandiGearee Wer qa cijcheris Soitse sos 2 «+ setts
Bortermilentyykarke. Memorial .. 5 snyae teree s 2 eo 2 ae
Saimitomals (@aoryeals aoe Gee ee Oodle 61> Cente cieeencneee oe
BrmTeHSOMsg | AES eerie Secisteyecrreeasie = che ado 26) oe o's ass

Walcott, Charles D. and Mary Vaux,

Resgameln (Destaneiea)) soacence5.cdcocuGagdudaoNEe

Sulneniall 5 Sooo ercteh he Se ee a earner es

UNRESTRICTED PURPOSE—QUASI:

OLTCSHRRODCLELLCE! Oe iets ae cis euessie es Hen ais cress celts eee
FBeneraWEMGOWMENt | Ses oa ccc ce wtectne tow ecu
Se HACATOMRO Denigh he Sette ocle soi ye teinte sre oes en oe
Hlalball, [Dre Gis sescea dic tel an Ene ce eee rete Gatton EM oh Sema oeees sc,
SlantaGustayUs iis Ne sic Gcuers mus a aies Mette nce cai aurea
FIST, CAnOHNS: aeicuito pa eiole Oa OAs, do-cecee ceo meretEecee
Biennys |osephrand/darriet Ay «5-2 cides 6 eee ie
Bley SM VAIO O A rosecterens siete sieve craic tee eheiat eelovesencveea tee
RLiTttONM @aTMle SUSATI Sho creusacc evdieioms sherexersisisuevecess guess
‘Lanmeloreré,, ER niEN Cpe a saat 5 Girne tone Reo nce at deena Near e
CCTs GTA CEM ry ie Mee Skies oie s coders ahaa er etssitayal eae
RU CESNVAlltat |OMESs Mees = oeisia cic eats) ee peneve cise som
BrattOrd Gl aralaQuiseherincdes «ace ne tee ee eA etn wees ee
Smithsonian Bequestibund™ ~..- oocseicioes cece «ches
Taggart, Ganson........ SuaKe\ETIS Coat tabs AVeie Oi avaie, Cassone
Abbot williamil. (Designated) 2.2. aos .c2- cee cote
Barstow, Erederic D. (Designated) Sse ee. occ e 2 sce
Lindbergh Chair of Aerospace History (Designated) ......
Bindbergh,. Charles A (Designated) ya -ae aie a= aust
yon, Marcus Ward, Jr (Designated) ...+...-.......2--
Webb, James E., Fellowship (Designated) ..............

SD EOE Alpe ke Riese 6 euske eo heteeMerOU nial © ition

MotalsWnrestrcted) Purposes 45 -eieeeiee ieeeia

$ 63,495,135

Principal
Book Market
value value

$ 152,106 $ 187,057
44,544 54,691
248,869 262,753
267,624 336,430
83,862 98,386
2,800 3,434
596,599 746,575
989,580 1,242,312
4,293 5,070
599,277 596,747
1,548,246 1,936,176
4,537,800 5,469,631
3,845,679 3,743,819
50,218,718 52,388,962
30,435 29,649
553 551
1,962 DPS)
4,855 5,472
195,247 218,870
369,205 364,294
99.435 106,568
SPAS) 195,502)
3,656 3,626
2,542 PP
168,811 170,158
742,745 7555298
1,673 2,073
457,303 514,463
3,828 4,300
1,754,572 1,781,810
15,114 16,510
15,184 15,330
846,603 751,603
$8,957,335 61,073,854

$ 66,543,485

Income

Net Unexpended

income balance
$ 4,968 $ —0-
1,342 =0=
9,568 -0-
8,258 -0-
2,415 —0-
84 —0-
19,042 -0-
30,494 —0-
154 —0-
29,200 —0-
69,053 29,475
174,578 29,475
91,895 -0-
1522/5555 -0-
728 -0-
27 -0-
54 -0-
134 -0-
S372. -0-
8,942 -0-
2,616 -0-
4,799 -0-
89 —0-
83 -0-
4,177 —0-
13,825 -0-
51 -0-
17,081 31,598
143 5.550
59,159 80,859
1,324 9,342
509 2,666
24,955 26,723
1,461,494 156,741
$1,636,072 $ 186,216

47
Table 13 Endowment Funds September 30, 1985 (Continued)

Principal Income

Book Market Net Unexpended

value value income balance
RESTRICTED PURPOSE—TRUE:
INANE | ETENIS eo come ode cots aoe Tea eee aod Oa $ 132,906 $ 168,507 $ 5,995 $ 5,619
Baird ss pencerbul lento mpacreryeheieteiiiel-)aieiatterereterscherelerenels 120,303 150,628 5,001 6,699
BameyaalicerbikesMemtortall te soe cuielieiee-l cel -r-) leer 95-277. 120,753 4,009 20,509
Batchelomyemravke eee eerie ellos o oxcuciicpatersce eens. sl'edsuarenerene 119,609 124,906 4,147 71,076
Beauregard. Catherines Memorial! ~~ csc 2. -)- le ere 150,147 168,742 5,603 52,296
Rogan; Cnenloia W, onoanocaopscencounpooosanoKnDSDOF 13,010 12,471 414 1,135
oa ROETCINZ Aigtts coo mao oein eS toclon cmmioes uae Ceo.c 101,269 115,809 3,845 14,962
GantieldmEredenicksAtry saree cic asie age eve custo tous «revenerenes 136,898 185,656 6,164 293
Cacae TIOMEGIUINEGIIN socacnoncooccdogoagsscounCoCOoC 48,096 54,099 1,796 4,717
@hamberlainserancest tears eeuereneteriarsy keeles 93,548 118,564 3,937 21,629
CooperFundiforPaleobiolopy 2 o--. -seee = -s > leen 97 376 96,176 35127 -0-
Division of Mammals Curators Fund ................+-- 6,927 Usil7/ 250 4,384
DrakeiRoundationva ne ccvewreks cnsrsvars ieehorcromawereve euch or eyare er erent 622,142 663,548 21,928" = 95,275
Drouet, Francis and Louderback, Harold B. Fund ......... 208,665 201,355 6,612 27,842
Dykes @harlessBequestyaterteieis attest terete store) clclietst-ierals IFAC) 198,945 6,605 ANI)
Eickemeyersblorence/BrevOort: .--) ier eiete oie eet elel=! > 36,102 45,747 1,519 22,738
Breer@hiarlesi lise sicse ciewauever et teers orekere rie lei oe suns (al eire, o) 0 Yoel 30,352,306 34,065,689 1,131,040 911,194
Grimms SergeNh ijn) Giotieeicle oes) ete eiciee steiieecvavers. co teeta 109,426 106,730 3,544 16,188
Grooms Barricka We oe meter cse ooeacrstseaete estore ne) ahaa teed Scale 112,249 107,438 Sl 4,368
Guggenheim, Daniel and Florence ..................-.- 427,700 435,876 14,472 32,419
[beri (worns JEWS ns oo dodo UU CoD OoeDtamo.000500 00K 4,155 4,578 196 1,625
Henderson, Edward P., Meteorite Fund ................. 1R 2577, 1,499 50 490
Hewitt leanor Gay Repain Funds. citric ile siete tate 25,783 27,404 910 946
Flewittssaranl GOOpeLwe traci eieicioiie) rae Sel ta orale nel 152,431 161,756 5,370 5,666
Fil Iyer aVirgilie menses teste cysnersrorvies Petree eke © > oan. teh eretedtate 25,220 28,370 942 10,326
Fditchcock WA bert:S® cards e w.cicc voters Mera oy eacte seo centor 5,285 6,750 224 151
HodekinsyRund® secmpectaey seus hetete ties « c)vacc s oereeate 110,615 110,156 5,440 33,961
FirdlickawAlles;andiManteromenesieiciiericicie iene aie career 183,437 209,784 6,965 12,314
Fluphes Bruce) cece etiieeskj ops = oe chee ere = einer si) oo) sayateners 63,624 80,684 2,679 14,552
Johnson, Seward, Trust Fund for Oceanography .......... 12,563,454 14,168,424 470,417 119,564
Kellogg, Remington, Memorial ....................45. 87,632 87,385 2,901 8,917
KiramiarNadae svsvcicveeeancrointssepes one fehl s. Ghsuese oreo avers s4crtedet 10,080 11,029 366 3,528
BindseysJessicidsy sretet-teiiet-ceroi kere cove ec eo ee toto 12,546 13,008 1132 9,630
IMED a Cll IM Ela ine 5 anc opps Oodod 6c On donb oOmoCc oC OC 65,193 82,668 2,745 28,591
Maillikensid.Oothout Memorials eerie cis acy on ee 760 805 27 51
Mineraliendowmenteern ooo eee ceo 345,701 371,266 12,327 411
Mitchells William siepec.cus.cserssoce <s eerie cctesers '«, <votohen 47,112 50,789 1,686 490
INaturaliHistory and @onservation) <i ein ete ae eee 91,427 94,872 3,027 -0-
INelsonsbaward Walliamimonre eerie ieenrareiie rire 76,431 93,615 3,108 9,943
Petrocelli@joseph, Memoriallgs a... sien eile 24,684 S1ES5i7, 1,041 27,872
Reid: Addison) 12" ..5 <,ccsyerstere sarees sien cin ole oveleee lo eserenlenoraes 80,393 88,837 3,146 10,503
Roeblingkund ©. .)5 cepa ie onl toe eae ererercro incre 400,111 505,703 16,790 521
Rollmnss Minramiand Walliams seriesaeteicietersteisriekietene eter 778,231 904,925 29,767 4,490
Sims}! George Ws is: oreo sis ancy arg sterenareienoieree ue rears er chodsRexeret= 81,495 77,269 DEW 3,077
Sprague Band tye cic ere, iaicnene aueseneyer oe serereuetR ner Re eterno Talore 5,077,848 5,411,148 IATL) 5,421
Springer Franke ...35eice sic. <i eceie eusucassereeenetenore eae ements nese een 59,833 75,462 2,505 25,243
Sterns Eiarol dia Memoriall acini icine eieietenc tener 611,950 647,602 18,847 66,298
Stevenson, John A., Mycological Library ..............-. 18,421 20,617 685 1777.
Walcott, Charles D. and Mary Vaux, Research............ 501,439 571,918 18,775 133322
Walcott Research Fund, Botanical Publications ........... 189,888 255,241 8,249 6,449
Williston, Samuel Wendell Diptera Research ............. 11,968 12,205 390 1,692
ZELDECMELANCES DLINGKIE 5c. < sac ore Gre eaereueneion eo eiantinioeraieiens 3,142 3,968 132 bye Si7/

Subtotalliigepee cricketers <r) ae Cee aes etree 54,875,497 61,360,250 2,033,956 1,768,100
Table 13. Endowment Funds September 30, 1985 (Continued)

Principal
Book Market
value value

RESTRICTED PURPOSE—QUASI:
ATIISILONE GWM JAMES wis 6 cee ociesieiete se wicie ow 4 ewes 11,833 12,414
Tp A tI CLARITIN ease sercisy sic roual siete orexerekeve creracrusiavererc masts 71,508 69,826
Bawa, Witter Anh oem ae amemeiae 1 > ooo eb oacomeaenc 331,299 350,461
BEGKETa GEOL eee ashe ie vefciersieusncas ore sreeneirer seis Grieve sis 571,087 606,582
Diesaniuclls, Rania date-c atts aisteteroterk clpiaioieba mi eaotoiaiorciaactaeeree 43,117 47,863
(GAviere GOLCOMmr er ras aanal cs sce ois arta fore estiyevereusyer eis avers 4,501 4,933
Hachenberg, George P: and Caroline ................... 15,908 18,438
Hanson, Martin Gustav and CarolineR. ................ 34,102 38,348
Hiumicncion eulogy atade on see Obed Gls oadn oor 11,369,436 12,600,705
MOB PIEMOO WME ater sc oscmea ocala ie sseve.s ep2c06l803 ape Guess SING 674,610 674,789
GBP Conservation Endowment ..0..cc6...-e2ss6 see ee 151,657 149,060
JohnsonmEaRcReninOLe! cia so. = ere cles sitet ee oye ee sa 28,225 28,393
ILO, IM LOTS is:3 0G Gree OIE CICERO IRN caer RCE Ren eras 336,549 380,326
Lone, Navarra les eine] SedaGs wae edoadosodgns sdbe aso o6 1,830 2,349
MiyeraGatherineswal den cycnter-) coke is .suctsrccelisters toh srsscielesters 77,509 87,165
INOS, JARED, a cco eno rsrOROIO OIG ole io GOD ine 610 Ghd cio Cina Goer 3,812 4,393
INY/2S, PAINTS ae eas Pen eet a OO OO HO OO near 33,677 32,903
Rell CorneliavlbivingstOny s-¢2.seve/2 6 ais0es sess ci ecsyevee ss cceistesi es 28,538 S72)
Ramsey, Adm. and Mrs. Dewitt Clinton* ................ 1,080,946 1,099,883
Reathbunskichard Mem Oxntall:. aera s sts leva series cle 40,915 46,107
Roslin Solkir Neseeman so5q0ccpnohocecospeoodseengGr 91,587 99,130
Rei TEST eV Ys A Rep EOE Re PERO ORO en GROTO ORO Penohan ene choles 110,042 110,648
Schill tz aceomarcd ipa rei ver ches<ssisusversieis su svessisiers o-astiew exessisbee 29,715 855555
Seidel Ath ertonenecryonerevteys tstay tiers sce, se cts eerie teneueveae selene 6 2,264,347 2,396,497
SmithsonianeAgency/AGCOUNE sralcuxeteneno eave) oniove =o one 2 ol ens 1,133,586 1,158,327
StcrOneM Uli poyrests cic bus cece os fe cievintele etn, oscar anes Reece 38,453 43,325
Witherspoon) Dhomas) A’, Memorial! =... 5-5-2... -...-- 494,642 $55) SS)

Saibtotalmecesyacen vse ohne se coe m: Sidon: sale mapas tae 19,073,431 20,684,316

oraliRestrictedihurposer ere rite ecctve sats arse $ 73,948,928

$ 82,044,566

TOTAL ENDOWMENT FUNDS

*Invested all or in part in U.S. Treasury or other nonpooled investments.

$137,444,063

$148,588,051

Income

Net Unexpended

income balance
405 —0-
2,318 2,435
11,636 222202:
20,140 —0-
1,560 —0-
164 2,107
612 12979
1,273 6,373
418,365 159,995
21,910 11,816
4,899 6,580
943 Ses
12,628 30,010
78 368
2,894 USS 7AS7/
146 2,668
1,092 1,146
1,068 2,962
37,108 2,073
1,531 19,617
3,291 8,622
3,674 12,104
1,107 27,894
79,568 296,770
39,368 157
1,438 2,226
18,457 28,624
687,673 668,476
$2,721,629 $2,436,576
$4,357,701** $2,622,792

**Total Return Income Payout; does not include $265,460 of interest income for investment of unexpendable income balances.

49
Coopers & Lybrand
Certified Public Accountants

To the Board of Regents
Smithsonian Institution

We have examined the statement of financial condition of
the Smithsonian Institution as of September 30, 1985, and
the related statement of financial activity for the year then
ended. Our examination was made in accordance with
generally accepted auditing standards and with generally
accepted governmental auditing standards and, accord-
ingly, included such tests of the accounting records and
such other auditing procedures as we considered necessary
in the circumstances. We previously examined and
reported upon the financial statements of the Smithsonian
Institution for the year ended September 30, 1984, totals of
which are included in the accompanying financial state-
ments for comparative purposes only.

In our opinion, the financial statements for the year ended
September 30, 1985, referred to above, present fairly the
financial position of the Smithsonian Institution as of Sep-
tember 30, 1985, and the results of its operations and
changes in its fund balances for the year then ended, in
conformity with generally accepted accounting principles
applied on a basis consistent with that of the preceding
year.

Coopers & Lybrand
1800 M Street, N. W.

Washington, D. C. 20036
December 18, 1985

5O
Smithsonian Institution Statement of Financial Condition
September 30, 1985 (with comparative totals for September 30, 1984)
(thousands of dollars)

Totals,
Trust Federal all
funds funds funds
ASSETS:
Cashionjhandiand inibanksi (Notes) a oeeis oe dine eee ye ceeie de eras $9 22207 $ 10 SS DPN
Bund) balancesywithiW-S> Ineasury,(INote4)) feeiee-.-.---)4-bieee one = 620 72,528 73,148
MAN ESEIMENEST IN OLESHcalG 5) Namen cic eric aus otek inns cals) oasis is Meaiatia le siete 192,602 _— 192,602
IEGENVADIESI NOLEN.) Missticio tive evan oreu eaciot Oise, ob suse Cpebeile soles a ietniteane Aieie weaieas 40,169 474 40,643
Advance payments (INOtE8)) cuca. = timc co Sethe. Ss aa bake wee ce 452 16,115 16,567
IMerchandisernventonya(INOte dl) o..o.. 5, <:skcist sn cre ieiaies «ieee eee oreevae 11,340 — 11,340
Meatenalsiandisuppliesunventony, (Notes sea ee 2s aie ceiver: _ 1,340 1,340
Amount to be provided for accrued annual leave (Note 1) ............. = 7,658 7,658
Prepaidedeterrediexpense and other (Note lls -6 4422-6 a. 1222 a2 aoe 13,400 —_— 13,400
Eropertyandlequipment (Notesaiand'9)) 2 a).cn ae aeaes aes aes: 34,334 201,355 235,689
IGS Heal CASSELS WR rte sce hei aaa es cS ToT Meche, she S ot bes Me anedeae $295,124 $299,480 $594,604
LIABILITIES:
Accounts payable and accrued expenses, including
INCELMUNC Payable Obl 0194. Ome sacs ante pen eters seco oat me ae cies $ 34,157 $ 16,150 $ 50,307
Deposits held in custody for other organizations (Note 2) ............. 37? BS) 65937,
Accruedrannualmleave (INOteMM)) 2 tecrerttets omens checie Giewes chatty ercis aacie one 1,664 7,658 322
Wefennedizeveniies (Noten) kearesness Nore cosecnsteriena, aero erster eo orate 28,133 — 28,133
Mo tall rab rlGlest e-msrhopeysnciore ces oe ioceshuare vey ores ence Vk Peete Ie Se 67,866 23,833 91,699
indeliveredrordersi (Notes) mere esters acis cee tek wie are eee gars —_— $7,425 57,425
FUND BALANCES (Note 1):
Trust Funds:
Current:
Unresmictedieeneralipunposemy1-))imisent-rioie elite ere re 5,138 — 5,138
Specialipumposerartcwac aire aceersretcnera ec teccreratencimro shkasi seem meme einer 23,832 — 23,832
Restricted leap tomer eric heer chery ois cielo oi eierine, duel onsnersia gue signe aiors 9,684 _ 9,684
Endowment and similar funds (INOfte 6) 2s. ue sacle dee see ee ne 137,444 = 137,444
Ipkaritafin csi IN OLes9) werner sere repent Cinco oie atc coemouc ete 51,160 — 51,160
otalttrustiund!balancesers mee yt tee cerer nasi caycle. ose s eaees 227,258 _— 227,258
Federal funds:
Operatingthumd sia ccioe tees oa sae Ee os eee eG weed _ 177 177
GonstructionuuUnd Siren crete ote nc oles ie hese nites ae — 15,349 15,349
Capital funds arrisccticninn Ocoee sees cine ee tees — 202,696 202,696
Wotalifederaliiundipalancesmem eee ereeiieroeni nei cerns — 218,222 218,222
otalifundibalancesweetearr ae rae me re es ore eos 227,258 218,222 445,480
Total liabilities, undelivered orders and fund balances ...............--- $295,124 $299,480 $594,604

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

Totals,
1984

SS Sfe7/
69,411
166,806
45,802
13,832
8,902
3,266

7 124
S73:
208,201

$538,754

$ 45,091
3,084
8,459

DAO LS

81,449
62,597

5,086
16,105
9,097
1185153

50,449
198,890

175
OTA2T.

186,216
195,818
394,708
$538,754

51
52

Smithsonian Institution Statement of Financial Activity for the year ended September 30, 1985
(with comparative totals for the year ended September 30, 1984) (thousands of dollars)

Trust funds

Totals, Endowment Totals,
trust Current and similar Plant federal
funds funds funds funds funds

REVENUE AND OTHER
ADDITIONS:
Appropriations, Net 5... 4... 546 $ = $ = $ — $ = $191,467
Auxiliary activities revenue ......... 138,010 138,010 — — =
Federal grants and contracts ........ 15,652 15,652 — = =
Investment income (net of $556,000
for management and
Chistodianitces) paee eee 12,658 10,821 _ 1,837 =
Net gain on sale of securities and
MONI, Sonsusaoanecouboocucr 15,745 71 135539 PPS) _
Gifts, bequests and
foundation\erants) 26... se see 9,742 8,692 173 877 _—
Additions to plant (Note 9) ......... 10,167 = oa 10,167 32,897
Rentals, fees, commissions
andlOthente APM <aiis.xbe eRe, etree 3,282 3,282 - == 137
Total revenue and
Otheradditionsis.-- ee eee oe 205,256 176,528 US e7Al2: 15,016 224,501
EXPENDITURES AND OTHER
DEDUCTIONS:
Research and educational
expendittunesmmme ieee eats ei 35,660 35,660 = = 114,017
Administrative expenditures ........ 11,058 11,058 — — 12,046
Facilities services expenditures ...... 1,575 NS 7/5) _ —_ 47,040
Auxiliary activities expenditures ..... 114,270 114,270 = mm =
Acquisition of plant and other
(Note9) Bert ene nee 13,567 — oa 13,567 12,404
Property use and retirements
(Note 9) ieee pai etearenvoe 738 — _ 738 16,417
Retirement of indebtedness ......... 5 _ = 2) =
Interest on indebtedness ........... 15 = a 15 =
Total expenditures and other
GRGWETOMS sooooscccesene 176,888 162,563 — 14,325 201,924
Excess of revenue and other
additions over expenditures
and other deductions ....... 28,368 13,965 1386/12. 691 22,577
TRANSFERS AMONG FUNDS—
ADDITIONS (DEDUCTIONS):
Mandatory principal and interest on
MOLES) 2 ete tartus vac ogssohs Si eee hen es — (20) — 20
Nonmandatory for designated
purposes, net (Note 10).......... — (S29579) S079 _ pee
Total transfers among funds ... = (5,599) 5,579 20 a
Net increase for the year...... 28,368 8,366 19,291 pial 22.507,
Returned to U.S. Treasury ......... a — — == (173)
Fund balances at beginning of year .. . 198,890 30,288 118,153 50,449 _195,818
Fund balances at end of year ........ $227,258 $ 38,654 $137,444 $51,160 $218,222

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.
Federal funds

Totals,

(erating Construction Capital all Totals,

junds funds funds funds 1984
$73,141 $18,326 $ — $191,467 $168,223
— _ — 138,010 114,852
= =e = 15,652 14,876
— -- — 12,658 11,902
os — — 15,745 8,505
= ~ ny 9,742 15,089
= — 32,897 43 064 23.1133
137 = = 3,419 3,131
73,278 18,326 32,897 429,757 359.711
14,017 —_— _ 149,677 591
12,046 — — 23,104 23,385
47,040 -- — 48,615 46,822
= — = 114,270 93,632
— 12,404 = D529 7A 16,938
— — 16,417 7ARALSSSS 15,043
— — — 5 6
— — — 15 18
73,103 12,404 16,417 378,812 333,435
175 5,922 16,480 50,945 26,276
175 5,922 16,480 50,945 26,276
(173 = — (173) (102)
10 175 9,427 186,216 394,708 368,534
177 $445,480 $394,708

$15,349

$202,696

Smithsonian Institution Statement of Financial Activity for the year ended September 30, 1985
(with comparative totals for the year ended September 30, 1984) (thousands of dollars)

Trust funds

Totals, Endowment Totals,
trust Current and similar Plant federal
funds funds funds funds funds

REVENUE AND OTHER
ADDITIONS:
Appropriations, MeL) es 4 eee $ — $ a $ — $ = $191,46
Auxiliary activities revenue ......... 138,010 138,010 = — 5
Federal grants and contracts ........ 15,652 15,652 — = =
Investment income (net of $556,000

for management and

GuStodianitees) eee ee 12,658 10,821 = 1,837 =
Net gain on sale of securities and

PROPELOY ssi) oh ae <ysiauersuate no 15,745 71 13,539 PSS -
Gifts, bequests and

foundationiprants) 1. ss 4605eee 9,742 8,692 173 877 =
Additions to plant (Note 9) ......... 10,167 — = 10,167 32,85
Rentals, fees, commissions

andiothent eters cicd i ee toe CO 3,282 322.82 _ = 12

Total revenue and
other additions ........... 205,256 176,528 13272: 15,016 224,5(

EXPENDITURES AND OTHER
DEDUCTIONS:

Research and educational
Expendituresma eee anes See 35,660 35,660 — — 114,0

Administrative expenditures ........ 11,058 11,058 — = 12,04
Facilities services expenditures ...... IES 1,575 = ay 470+
Auxiliary activities expenditures ..... 114,270 114,270 = a
Acquisition of plant and other

(Note:9) Reso See oe 13,567 —_ — 13,567 12,41
Property use and retirements

(IN@tE:9) eseacy i tial tous on eaen tik e- 738 — _— 738 16,4
Retirement of indebtedness ......... 5 — — 5
Interest on indebtedness 5

Total expenditures and other
deductions#sn ee eee 176,888

Excess of revenue and other
additions over expenditures
and other deductions ....... 28,368 13,965 13,712 691 22,5]

TRANSFERS AMONG FUNDS—
ADDITIONS (DEDUCTIONS):

Mandatory principal and interest on

Nonmandatory for designated
purposes, net ((Noteli0) So

Total transfers among funds ...

Net increase for the year...... 28,368 8,366 19,291 Fill 22,59
Returned!to Un sw ireasury =). 2). -1- — —_— -- hak: (1B
Fund balances at beginning of year ... 198,890 30,288 118,153 50,449 195,8

Fund balances at end of year ........ $227,258 $ 38,654 $137,444 $51,160 $218,2P

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.
Federal funds

)perating
funds

$173,141

137

173,278

114,017
12,046
47,040

173,103

175

Totals,

Construction Capital all Totals,
funds funds funds 1984
$18,326 $ = $191,467 $168,223

— — 138,010 114,852

— -- 15,652 14,876

—_— —_— 12,658 11,902

— — 15,745 8,505

— — 9,742 15,089

— 32,897 43,064 2BeI88)

— — 3,419 sails
18,326 32,897 429,757 359,711
= = 149,677 137,591

— —_— 23,104 23,385

— = 48,615 46,822

— — 114,270 93,632
12,404 = 25,971 16,938
— 16,417 17S 15,043

= eis 5 6

— = 15 18
12,404 16,417 378,812 333,435
5,922 16,480 50,945 26,276
5,922 16,480 50,945 26,276
_ = (173) (102)
9,427 186,216 394,708 368,534
$15,349 $202,696 $445,480 $394,708

Smithsonian Institution Notes to Financial Statements

1. Summary of significant accounting policies
Basis of presentation

These financial statements do not include the accounts of
the National Gallery of Art, the John F. Kennedy Center
for the Performing Arts or the Woodrow Wilson Interna-
tional Center for Scholars, which were established by Con-
gress within the Smithsonian Institution (the Institution)
but are administered under separate boards of trustees.

The federal funds reflect the receipt and expenditures of
funds obtained from Congressional appropriations. The
accounts of the federal funds have been prepared on the
obligation basis of accounting, which is in accordance
with accounting principles prescribed by the Comptroller
General of the United States as set forth in the Policy and
Procedures Manual for Guidance of Federal Agencies. The
obligation basis of accounting differs in some respects
from generally accepted accounting principles. Under this
method of accounting, commitments of the operating
fund, such as purchase orders and contracts, are recog-
nized as expenditures, and the related obligations are
reported on the balance sheet even though goods and serv-
ices have not been received as of the date of the financial
statements. Such commitments aggregated $39,147,000 at
September 30, 1985. In addition, construction commit-
ments amounted to $18,279,000 at September 30, 1985.

The trust funds reflect the receipt and expenditure of
funds obtained from private sources, federal grants and
contracts, investment income and certain business activi-
ties related to the operations of the Institution.

Fund accounting

To ensure observance of the limitations and restrictions
placed on the use of resources available to the Institution,
accounts are maintained in accordance with the principles
of fund accounting. This procedure classifies resources for
control, accounting and reporting purposes into distinct
funds established according to their appropriation, nature
and purposes. Separate accounts are maintained for each
fund; however, in the accompanying financial statements,
funds that have similar characteristics have been combined
into fund groups. Accordingly, all financial transactions
have been recorded and reported by fund group.

The assets, liabilities and fund balances of the Institu-
tion are self-balancing as follows:

Federal operating funds represent the portion of expend-
able moneys available for support of Institution opera-

54

tions. Separate subfund groups are maintained for each
appropriation as follows: Salaries and Expenses, Special
Foreign Currency and Barro Colorado Island Trust Fund.

Federal construction funds represent that portion of
expendable funds available for building and facility con-
struction, restoration, renovation and repair. Separate
subfund groups are maintained for each appropriation—
Construction and Improvements, National Zoological
Park, Restoration and Renovation of Buildings, Museum
Support Center and the Center for African, Near Eastern,
and Asian Cultures (Quadrangle).

Federal capital funds represent the value of those assets
of the Institution acquired with federal funds and nonex-
pendable property transfers from government agencies.

Trust current funds, which include unrestricted and
restricted resources, represent the portion of expendable
funds that is available for support of Institution opera-
tions. Amounts restricted by the donor for specific pur-
poses are segregated from other current funds.

Trust endowment and similar funds include funds that
are subject to restrictions of gift instruments requiring in
perpetuity that the principal be invested and the income
only be used. Also classified as endowment and similar
funds are gifts which allow the expenditure of principal
but only under certain specified conditions. Quasi-
endowment funds are funds established by the governing
board for the same purposes as endowment funds; how-
ever, any portion of such funds may be expended.
Restricted quasi-endowment funds represent gifts for
restricted purposes where there is no stipulation that the
principal be maintained in perpetuity or for a period of
time, but the governing board has elected to invest the
principal and expend only the income for the purpose stip-
ulated by the donor.

Trust plant funds represent resources restricted for
future plant acquisitions and funds expended for plant.
Pledges for the construction of the Center for African,
Near Eastern, and Asian Cultures are recorded as gifts in
the plant fund in the period the pledge document is
received. )

Investments

All gains and losses arising from the sale, collection or

other disposition of investments and property are

accounted for in the fund in which the related assets are
recorded. Income from investments is accounted for in a
similar manner, except for income derived from invest-

ments of endowment and similar funds, which is |
accounted for in the fund to which it is restricted or, if
unrestricted, as revenue in unrestricted current funds.
Gains and losses on the sale of investments are recognized
on the settlement date basis using the specific identification
method, whereby the cost of the specific security adjusted
by any related discount or premium amortization is the
basis for recognition of the gain or loss.

Inventory

Inventories are carried at the lower of cost or market. Cost
is determined using the first-in, first-out (FIFO) method,
retail cost method (for those inventories held for resale) or
net realizable value.

Deferred revenue and expense

Revenue from subscriptions to Smithsonian Magazine is
recorded as income over the period of the related subscrip-
tion, which is one year. Costs related to obtaining sub-
scriptions to Smithsonian Magazine are charged against
income over the period of the subscription.

The Institution recognizes revenue and charges expenses
of other auxiliary activities during the period in which the
activity is conducted.

Works of art, living or other specimens

The Institution acquires its collections, which include
works of art, library books, photographic archives,
objects and specimens, through purchase or by donation.
In accordance with policies generally followed by muse-
ums, no value is assigned to the collections on the state-
ment of financial condition. Purchases for the collections
are expensed currently.

Property and equipment

Equipment purchased with federal funds is recorded at
cost and is depreciated on a straight-line basis over a
period of ro years. Equipment purchased with trust funds
for use by nonincome-producing activities is treated as a
deduction of the current fund and a capitalized cost of the
plant fund. Depreciation on equipment capitalized in the
plant fund is recorded on a straight-line basis over the esti-
mated useful life of 3 to 10 years (See Note 9). Capital
improvements and equipment purchased with trust funds
and utilized in income-producing activities are capitalized
at cost and are depreciated on a straight-line basis over
their estimated useful lives of 3 to 10 years.

Buildings and other structures, additions to buildings
and fixed equipment purchased with federal funds are
recorded at cost and depreciated on a straight-line basis

over a period of 30 years. Costs associated with renovat-
ing, restoring and improving structures are depreciated
over their useful lives of 15 years.

Certain lands occupied by the Institution’s buildings
were appropriated and reserved by Congress for the
Smithsonian and are not reflected in the accompanying
financial statements. Property and nonexpendable equip-
ment acquired through transfer from government agencies
are capitalized at the transfer price or at estimated
amounts, taking into consideration usefulness, condition
and market value.

Real estate (land and buildings) purchased with trust
funds is recorded at cost, to the extent that restricted or
unrestricted funds were expended therefor, or appraised
value at date of gift, except for gifts of certain islands in
the Chesapeake Bay and the Carnegie Mansion, which
have been recorded at nominal values. Costs of original
building structures and major additions are depreciated on
a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives of 30
years. Costs of renovating, restoring and improving struc-
tures are depreciated on a straight-line basis over their esti-
mated useful lives of 15 years (See Note 9).

Government grants and contracts

The Institution has a number of grants and contracts with
the U.S. Government, which primarily provide for cost
reimbursement to the Institution. Grant and contract reve-
nue is recognized when billed.

Contributed services

A substantial number of unpaid volunteers have made sig-
nificant contributions of their time in the furtherance of
the Institution’s programs. The value of this contributed
time is not reflected in these statements.

Annual leave

The Institution’s civil service employees earn annual leave
in accordance with federal law and regulations. However,
only the cost of leave taken as salaries is funded and
recorded as an expense. The cost of unused annual leave at
year-end is reflected in the accompanying financial state-
ments as an asset and accrued liability in the federal funds.

Annual leave is recorded for trust employees in the trust
fund as earned.

2. Related activities

The Institution provides fiscal and administrative services

55

to several, separately incorporated organizations in which
certain officials of the Institution serve on the governing
boards. The amounts paid to the Institution by these
organizations for the aforementioned services, together
with rent for Institution facilities occupied, etc., totaled
approximately $354,000 ($281,000 for the trust funds and
$73,000 for the federal funds) for the year ended Septem-
ber 30, 1985. Deposits held in custody for these organiza-
tions are $3,912,000 as of September 30, 1985.

The following summarizes the approximate expendi-
tures of these organizations for the fiscal year ended Sep-
tember 30, 1985, as reflected in their individual financial
statements and which are not included in the accompany-
ing financial statements of the Institution:

($000s)
VisionsiFoundation. Inca sos252 e246 522 ee: $ 186
Reading lsiFundamentalaIncsenses see seas. $6,617
Woodrow Wilson International Center for
Scholars:
Mrustiunds* ee ee ee me see $4,712
Federallappropriationsie eee eee eee $2,672

3. Cash on hand

Cash on hand—federal funds represents the amount of
cash advanced by the U. S. Treasury to imprest fund cash-
iers for small purchases.

4. Fund balances with U.S. Treasury

The account represents fund balances on the books of the
U.S. Treasury available for disbursement.

5. Investments

Investments are recorded at cost on a settlement date
basis, if purchased, or estimated fair market value at date
of acquisition, if acquired by gift. At September 30, 1985,
investments were composed of the following:

56

Carrying Market
value value
($000s) ($000s)
Current funds:
Certificates of deposit ....... $ 12,415 $ 12,412
Commercialipapeny sass 7,585 7,600

U. S. Government and quasi-

government obligations 36,067 36,914

GCorporate|bonds) esses ane Us) 75
Gommonistockasaneee ee 13 5
Preterredistocks eae eee 30 30

56,185 57,036

Endowment and similar funds:
Money market account......
Deposit with U.S. Treasury ..
U. S. Government and quasi-

government obligations

18,526 18,526
1,000

9,474 10,410

@orporate bondsee- eases 3,754 3,266
Gommonistock ance one. 100,203 111,191
PretennedistOGKam cere 3,384 3,092
136,341 147,485
Plant funds:

U. S. Government and quasi-
government obligations ... 26 27
Commonistockis- eee ae 50 50
76 77
$192,602 $204,598

Since October 1, 1982, the deposit with the U. S. Trea-
sury has been invested in U. S. Government securities at a
variable yield based on market interest rates.

Substantially all the investments of the endowment and
similar funds are pooled on a market value basis (consoli-
dated fund) with each individual fund subscribing to or
disposing of units on the basis of the per unit market value
at the beginning of the month within which the transaction
takes place. The unit value as of September 30, 1985, was
$223.18; 296,756 units were owned by endowment, and
364,248 units were owned by quasi-endowment at Septem-
ber 30, 1985.

The following tabulation summarizes changes in rela-
tionships between cost and market values of the pooled
investments:
($000s) Market
Net value per
Market Cost change unit

End of year.. $147,300 $136,156 $11,144 $223.18
Beginning of
Wealearntat $131,113 $116,860 14,253
Decrease in
unrealized
net gain for
the year...
Realized net
gain for the

203.92

(3,109) =

SESS) —
Total ... $10,416 $ 19.26

6. Endowment and similar funds
Endowment and similar funds at September 30, 1985 are
summarized as follows:

($000s)

Endowment funds, income available for:
Restricted purposes! ois. le): $ 54,875

lWnrestrictedipurposes| =.) 4..-4- 4-1 4,538
59,413
Quasi-endowment funds, principal and

income available for:
Restrictedi purposes) eta acini _ IOo73
Wnrestricted|punposes 4 -.44eu5s 16-2: 58,958
78,031
Total endowment and similar funds $137,444

The Institution utilizes the “total return” approach to
investment management of endowment funds and quasi-
endowment funds. Under this approach, the total invest-
ment return is considered to include realized and
unrealized gains and losses in addition to interest and divi-
dends. An amount equal to the difference between interest
and dividends earned during the year and the amount
computed under the total return formula is transferred to
or from the current funds.

In applying this approach, it is the Institution’s policy to
provide, as being available for current expenditures, an
amount taking into consideration such factors as, but not
limited to: (1) 41/2% of the five-year average of the market

value of each fund (adjusted for gifts and transfers during

this period), (2) current dividend and interest yield,

(3) support needs for bureaus and scientists, and (4) infla-
tionary factors as measured by the Consumer Price Index;
however, where the market value of the assets of any .
endowment fund is less than 110% of the historic dollar
value (value of gifts at date of donation), the amount pro-
vided is limited to only interest and dividends received.
The total return factor for 1985 was $7.41 per unit to the
Restricted and Designated Purpose Endowment Funds and
$5.50 per unit to the Unrestricted General Purpose Endow-
ment Funds; new units were purchased for the Unre-
stricted General Purpose Endowment Funds with the s1.91
difference in the total return factor. The total return
applied for 1985 was $2,880,000 to the Restricted and Des-
ignated Purpose Endowment Funds and $1,416,000 to the
Unrestricted General Purpose Endowment Funds.

7. Receivables

Receivables at September 30, 1985, included the following:

($000s)
Trust funds
Accounts receivable, auxiliary activities, net
of allowance for doubtful accounts of
SS Sl QOOK . geeetety ocho News ects $11,899
Interfund receivables due from current
funds:
Endowment and similar funds ......... 822
Riantiunds\ ere wee cesta ceo ome 18,118
Interest and dividends receivable ......... 2,104
Unbilled costs and fees from grants and
CONERACESY at eee oe Cae 1,081
Pled cesinciestte te onc eteeice mee erence 6,103
Other erra'n cc ston ons crt ogicls cae eelee Rear 42
40,169
Federal funds
Senvicelteesjand (charges ean eieret 474
Totalallifundsieemeerce eater $40,643

8. Advance payments

Advance payments represent prepayments made to gov-
ernment agencies, educational institutions, firms and indi-
viduals for services to be rendered or property or materials
to be furnished.

As of September 30, 1985, the Institution had advances

57
outstanding to the U. S. Government of approximately
$13,902,000, principally for construction services to be
completed in future fiscal years. The Institution at that
date also had advances outstanding to educational institu-
tions amounting to approximately $1,255,000, principally
under the Special Foreign Currency Program.

9. Property and equipment

At September 30, 1985, property and equipment which
have been capitalized (see Note 1) are comprised of the
following:

_($000s) —_($000s) _
Federal
Capital funds
AROS at.cenaoooaoh ac 286,904
LEGON oo oc agnaomee 31,004
Less accumulated
Gepreciatlonmerreeee (116,553)
Total, federal funds . . _ 201,355
Trust
Current funds
Capitalimprovements ... $ 4,699
Equipment ere ieee 6,828
Leasehold improvements . 235
Less accumulated depreci-
ation and amortization . (5,340)
6,422
Endowment and similar
funds
Bands cnet me Se re Oe 239
Plant funds
Land and buildings ..... $ 31,550
Ei qtupmenteier nner 2,985
Less accumulated
depreciation. eee (6,862)
27,673
Total, trust funds ... 34,334
Totalyvallifiunds) 34.4 - $235,689

Depreciation expense reflected in expenditures of the
federal capital funds for 1985 was approximately
$13,181,000.

Depreciation and amortization expense for 1985 for trust

58

funds’ income-producing assets amounted to approxi-
mately $1,508,000, which is included in auxiliary activities
expenditures in the current funds. Depreciation of trust
funds’ nonincome-producing equipment and buildings for
1985 amounted to approximately $738,000.

During 1985, the trust unexpended plant funds were
reduced by $4,000,000 for a pledge deemed not collectible.
The balance of the plant fund at September 30, 1985,
included $23,640,000 of trust unexpended plant funds.

1o. Nonmandatory transfers for designated purposes

The following transfers among trust funds were made for
the year ended September 30, 1985, in thousands of
dollars:

Endowment
____Currentfunds and similar
Unrestricted Restricted funds
Portion of
investment
yield
appropriated
(Note 6) ..... $(1,350) $(1,086) $2,436
Income added to
endowment
principal ..... (4) (139) 143
Endowment
released ..... -- 36 (36)
Appropriated
as quasi-
endowment (3,009) (27) 3,036
Total .. $(4,363) $(1,216) $5,579

11. Retirement plans

The federal employees of the Institution are covered by the
Civil Service Retirement Program. Under this program,
the Institution withholds from the gross pay of each fed-
eral employee and remits to the Civil Service Retirement
and Disability Fund (the Fund) the amounts specified by
such program. The Institution contributes 7% of basic
annual salary to the Fund. The cost of the plan for the year
ended September 30, 1985, was approximately $6,575,000.
The Institution has separate retirement plans for trust
and federal employees. Under the trust fund’s plan, both
the Institution and employees contribute stipulated per-
centages of salary which are used to purchase individual
annuities, the rights to which are immediately vested with
the employees. The cost of the plan for the year ended Sep-
tember 30, 1985, was $3,330,000. It is the policy of the
Institution to fund plan costs accrued currently. There are
no unfunded prior-service costs under the plan.

12. Income taxes

The Institution is exempt from income taxation under the
provisions of Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue
Code. Organizations described in that section are taxable
only on their unrelated business income, which was imma-
terial for the Institution in 1985.

It is the opinion of the Institution that it is also exempt
from taxation as an instrumentality of the United States as
defined in Section 501(c)(1) of the Code. Organizations
described in that section are exempt from all income taxa-
tion. The Institution has not yet formally sought such dual
status.

52

60

na
ee

CE

SCIE

1ence

istant Secretary for Sc

Ass

zallinor,

David Ch

61
National Air and Space Museum

For the National Air and Space Museum (NASM), the
year brought new challenges and manifold opportunities
for innovation and change. The task of interpreting
human endeavor in air and space requires the staff of the
museum to work in the separate but related avenues of his-
torical and scientific research. The museum’s focus relates
to the dimensions of past, present, and future. Diverse
programs in research and writing, exhibitions, collections,
education, and public outreach shaped the work of the
museum during the year.

A well-developed program of research provides the base
for all NASM activities. Responsibility for the program
rests with the Office of the Associate Director for
Research, which has been expanded this year to include a
new Office of Aerospace Education and Publications. The
office manages the museum’s elementary and secondary
education program, which also includes the docent pro-
gram; the scholarly and popular publications program;
and museum-wide special projects.

A second new office, the Office of University Programs,
will expand the museum’s cooperative programs with uni-
versities and research institutes. This year NASM hosted a
cooperative program with New York University (NYU) on
the theme the “History of Twentieth Century Technology.”
The seminar allowed both institutions to experiment with
an innovative course of study integrating museum
resources into the university curriculum. For example, a
“historical replication” exercise with the Wright brothers’
wind tunnel gave students the opportunity to grapple with
the same problems that the Wright brothers encountered in
the design of the first airplane—and with the same tools.
Seminar sessions also dealt with remote-sensing technol-
ogy and other aspects of aerospace technology. The semi-
nar also included a one-day conference “The Museum as a
Learning Center,’ sponsored by NASM, which was
attended by representatives from local universities, muse-
ums, and the federal government.

The creation of the Martin Marietta Chair in Space His-
tory in 1985 represents an important addition to an already
active NASM program of research fellowships. The first
occupant of the new chair, Dr. Leo Goldberg, former
director of Kitt Peak National Observatory in Tucson, is
preparing his memoirs on American astronomy. An Inter-
national Fellowship program was also established this
year, with Peter W. Brooks of the United Kingdom as the
incumbent. Brooks will research the history of the auto-
giro and its contribution to the initial development of the
helicopter.

Dr. Hans von Ohain, NASM Lindbergh Professor of
Aerospace History, wrote on his invention of the first jet

62

engine ever to power an aircraft. Dr. Richard K. Smith
served as this year’s Verville Fellow. His research centered
on the new American airplane of 1934. In addition, NASM
hosted eighteen interns and fellows during the year.

Individual NASM research programs are centered in
three museum departments: Aeronautics, Space Science
and Exploration, and the Center for Earth and Planetary
Studies. Studies of the early history of flight and of the
international implications of aerospace technology remain
important themes for research and writing in the Depart-
ment of Aeronautics. During the past year, staff members
have continued the work of collecting, organizing, and
translating the finest archive of original material relating
to Russian aeronautics, 1900-1920, available in the United
States. Curators continue to establish ties with foreign
manufacturers and airlines. A special effort was made this
year to focus on the collection of material relating to aero-
space activity in Asia and in particular the People’s Repub-
lic of China.

An exchange of letters between Secretary Adams and
President Steven Muller of Johns Hopkins University,
agreeing in principle to the establishment of a new collabo-
rative Center for the History of Space Science, will help to
focus important elements of the research efforts of the
Department of Space Science and Exploration. The center
will provide a program of training for scholars in the his-
tory of modern astronomy, astrophysics, and space sci-
ence, and will generate a diverse program of seminars,
publications, and scholarly exchanges.

The Space Telescope History Project, a joint enterprise
of NASM and the History of Science Department of Johns
Hopkins University to document the development of the
Space Telescope, continues as a focal point for research
within the department. More than two hundred hours of
oral history interviews have been collected with past and
present participants in the Space Telescope program. Sev-
eral lectures have been given on the project’s activities and
findings, and three papers have been published, including
one in a special issue of the Proceedings of the Institute of
Electrical and Electronics Engineers on historical perspec-
tives on the use of electronic instrumentation for the sci-
ences.

Working late at night, craftsmen remove the 1903 Wright Flyer
from its place of honor in the National Air and Space Museum’s
Milestones of Flight gallery. It was installed in an empty gallery
where, behind transparent walls, the historic aircraft was care-
fully disassembled by a three-man crew, who spent the next five
months preserving and restoring it.

a.

NASM, the National Science Foundation (NSF), and the
American Institute of Physics (AIP) cooperated to micro-
film the AIP Sources for History of Modern Astronomy
collection for official deposit at the museum. The acquisi-
tion of this collection, now complete and combined with
the Space Astronomy Oral History Project Collection,
makes NASM and the Smithsonian Institution the largest
repository of oral history and archival materials on astron-
omy in the world.

Historical research continued on the history of space
station concepts; a chronological narrative of the
Congreve-Hale rocketry era during the nineteenth century;
the beginnings of satellite science; the origins of space sci-
ence in the V2 era, 1945-52; the development of the Apollo
11 spacecraft; the work of Konrad Zuse, who developed
one of the world’s first automatic digital computers; and
the evolution of the space suit.

Scientific research in terrestrial and planetary geology
and remote sensing continued at the Center for Earth and
Planetary Studies (CEPS). Research in planetary geology
included geologic mapping of Ganymede and the ongoing
analysis of the extensive Tharsis ridge system of Mars as
part of a continuing study of the tectonic evolution of the
Tharsis Plateau. In conjunction with efforts to map these
features on Mars, the anticlinal ridges of the Columbia
Plateau in the northwestern United States are being studied
as potential analogs to the Tharsis ridges, as well as to
similar features on the Moon, Mercury, and possibly
Venus.

As part of ongoing terrestrial research at CEPS, the
study has continued of geomorphologic processes in the
upper Inland Niger Delta of Mali, including the study of
desertification processes as a result of twenty years of
drought. Recently, this work has been expanded to a
broader three-year study of erosion, aeolian transport, and
the spectral characteristics of sands and soils in arid
regions using diverse types of remote-sensing data, for
three field areas in Mali, Egypt, and Botswana. Fieldwork
was done in the deserts of southern Egypt and northern
Sudan to study the terrain along the ground track over-
flown by the Space Shuttle radar experiment, and in Mali
to explore ancient river courses observed in satellite imag-
ery. The Mali work will help determine the long-term
effects of climate change on the fragile development of the
inland Niger Delta region. Terrestrial research also
included investigations of the use of thermal infrared data
in conjunction with other types of remotely sensed data to
locate and characterize lithologic units and large-scale tec-
tonic features in Saudi Arabia.

Over the past year, CEPS continued to expand its com-

President and Mrs. Ronald Reagan, arriving for the June 19 pre-
mier of the National Air and Space Museum’s newest large-
screen film, The Dream Is Alive, are greeted by Walter J. Boyne
(right), director of the museum, and Smithsonian Under Secre-
tary Dean Anderson.

puter image processing capabilities with reference to image
processing techniques and computer software for the anal-
ysis of remotely sensed orbital image data. The CEPS
Regional Planetary Image Facility, a NASA-supported
repository for images acquired during planetary missions,
has begun acquiring Earth photography taken by Space
Shuttle astronauts.

The year also saw significant advances in the program
to improve and expand the NASM research archives. The
first field test of the museum’s System for Digital Display
(SDD) for capturing archival documents via high resolu-
tion digital cameras was conducted at the Alabama Space
and Rocket Center (ASRC) in Huntsville. Museum staff
instructed ASRC staff in the use of the SDD equipment for
capturing the personal papers of Wernher von Braun
stored at ASRC. This pioneer project will provide NASM
with much-needed data regarding reliability and practical-
ity of the equipment in field trials. The system has been |
licensed by several commercial corporations in a wide vari-
ety of applications.

During 1985, NASM’s analog videodisc project contin-
ued td progress with the acquisition of an additional cam-
era. This resulted in a disc containing the U.S. Air Force
World War II overseas collection of 50,000 images; it will
be expanded to include an additional 50,000 images of
pre-1953 U.S. Air Force photographs. The popularity of
the museum’s videodisc program resulted in an agreement
with NASA to produce a disc containing its photograph
collection. This disc, scheduled for completion early next
year, will provide the museum with ready access to histori-
cal photographs of the U.S. space program.

The NASM publications program is a reflection of the
museum’s commitment to quality research. The National
Air and Space Museum Research Report 1984 was the first
volume in a series of annual publications. This report was
distributed to scholars, universities, libraries, museum
researchers, selected congressmen and their staff, and
other interested persons throughout the country. The
report reflects the strengthening of the museum’s research
and collection programs and exhibitions. Articles by staff
and distinguished fellows are based on ongoing research at
NASM or supported by the museum.

Other NASM publications released this year included
Moonlight Interceptor: Japan’s “Irving” Night Fighter, the
eighth book in the Famous Aircraft of the National Air
and Space Museum series; United States Women in Avia-
tion: 1930-1939, sixth book in Smithsonian Studies in Air
and Space; the third edition of Aircraft of the National Air
and Space Museum; and Airlines of Latin America Since
1919. Two new catalogues were published: Focus on
Flight: The Aviation Photography of Hans Groenhoff, and
the Space Astronomy Oral History Project Catalogue.
Reprinted NASM books included: United States Women in
Aviation through World War I, United States Women in
Aviation 1919-1929, Winged Wonders: The Story of the
Flying Wings, and The First 25 Years in Space.

NASM books received more awards than ever before
this year. United States Women in Aviation 1919-1929
received an award of achievement from the Washington
Chapter of the Society for Technical Communication
(STC); the Samuel P. Langley Theater booklet and the
NASM Style Manual each received an award of distinction
from the STC. NASM received two honorable mention
awards from the National Association of Government
Communicators (NAGC) in their 1985 Blue Pencil Compe-
tition for the Samuel P. Langley Theater booklet and the
National Air and Space Museum Research Report 1984. A
special recognition award was presented by the Ohio
Chapter of the Tuskegee Airmen to the museum for the
outstanding graphic display in Black Wings: The Ameri-
can Black in Aviqtion publication. R. E. G. Davies’ book,
Airlines of Latin America Since 1919, won honorable men-
tion (non-fiction category) from the Aviation/Space Writ-
ers Association.

Two NASM-produced brochures received awards from
the STC: the Exploring Space lecture series brochure
received an award of distinction, and the Apollo Legacy
symposium brochure received an award of merit. An arti-
cle on NASM’s videodisc technology received an award of
achievement from STC as well. In addition, the Apollo
Legacy brochure won third prize from the NAGC Blue
Pencil Competition. Articles on museum projects written

for the Smithsonian News Service were sent to more than
1,500 newspapers and magazines around the nation.

NASM cooperated on a series of twelve educational arti-
cles for the “Mini Page,” a syndicated feature for children
carried in 450 newspapers nationwide, with a possible cir-
culation of more than forty million people. The series of
articles for the “Mini Page” was coordinated by the Office
of Aerospace Education and Publications.

A new magazine, Air & Space, is being developed by the
museum with the advice and cooperation of Smithsonian
magazine. Air & Space will be written for the intelligent
layman interested in the past, present, and future of all
aspects of air and space. The magazine will feature
thoughtful articles written with a human interest focus,
extensive use of four-color photography, and explanatory
diagrams.

The successful working relationship of NASM, Lock-
heed Corporation, IMAX Systems Corporation, and
NASA created NASM’s newest and well-received IMAX
film, The Dream Is Alive. President Reagan attended
NASM’s premiere of the film on June 19. On June 21, 1985,
the museum opened the film to the public. The film offers
an insider’s view of America’s Space Shuttle program and
features spectacular inflight footage shot by fourteen
astronauts. The film has set attendance records in the five
other IMAX theaters currently showing it, as well as
increased general attendance and other IMAX film atten-
dance. By the first anniversary of its NASM premiere, the
film will have shown in forty theaters around the world (of
a possible forty-five).

IMAX rushes for The Dream Is Alive are being used by
NASA for engineering purposes. NASA technicians are
reviewing portions of the film to help them design the
space station of the future; by watching the astronauts
moving, eating, and sleeping in the film, NASA hopes to
determine what works and what doesn’t for future living
and working in space.

On the Wing, NASM’s IMAX/OMNIMAxX film cur-
rently in production, is scheduled to premiere in the
Langley Theater on June 19, 1986, exactly one year after
The Dream Is Alive. The theme of the film is the endless
quest for flight in nature and by human imitators.

Dr. Paul MacCready, designer of the Gossamer series of
advanced flying machines, undertook to build a radio-
controlled flying replica of Quetzalcoatlus northropi, a
prehistoric reptile believed to have been the world’s largest
flying creature. He assembled a team of specialists in aero-
dynamics, technical engineering, and paleobiology. This
flight will complete the last sequence of On the Wing.
Even in the early planning stages, there has been wide

65
In the weightlessness of space, mission specialists Kathy Sullivan
and David Leestma perform extravehicular activities during
Space Shuttle Flight 41-G, Challenger, October 5-13, 1984.
(Threshold Corporation)

media interest in the project.

A new multimedia show, Comet Ouest, opened in the
Albert Einstein Planetarium in November 1984. The show
chronicles how comets have been studied in history, and
sets the stage for Comet Halley’s return to the inner solar
system later this year. A small exhibition for this event,
also titled Comet Quest, focuses on Edmond Halley. It
also presents historical depictions of the comet and pro-
vides information on how and where the comet can best be
viewed during its current return.

The goal of NASM exhibition effort is to present the
history, science, and technology of flight in a manner
understandable and enjoyable to visitors. Two separate
exhibitions opened in the Special Aircraft Exhibits gallery.
Focus on Flight: The Aviation Photography of Hans
Groenhoff and Rudy Arnold featured photographs
selected from the collections of these two world-renowned
aviation and aerial photographers from the “Golden Age
of Flight” era (1920-40); Mr. Groenhoff attended the
opening of the exhibition. The Dayton-Wright built
de Havilland DH-4 and the Northrop N-1M flying wing,
recently restored by the craftsmen of NASM’s Garber
Facility, were exhibited along with supporting photo-
graphs and models.

The Pioneers of Flight gallery included two exhibitions.
Designers of the Jet Age was based on the careers of two
premier U.S. aircraft designers, Edward H. Heinemann

66

and Clarence L. “Kelly” Johnson; both designers attended
the opening of the exhibition. Early Flight 1900-1911
included fifty-six photographs from the Wright brothers’
private collection, together with descriptive text and a
poster. The exhibition was organized by Wright State Uni-
versity and sent on tour by the Smithsonian Institution
Traveling Exhibition Service (SITES).

An exhibition of the work of contemporary sculptor
John Safer opened in September, with pieces ranging in
scale from architectural to intimate. A significant gift to
the aeronautical collection was Web of Space, a sculpture
donated by the artist. It will be awarded annually as the
National Air and Space Museum Trophy.

Additions to major galleries included: the Military Air
Transport exhibition in the Hall of Air Transportation coy-
ering the experimental period, starting in 1920, to the
present day, including sections on the transatlantic airlift
of World War II, the “Hump,” the Korean and Vietnam
wars, and various humanitarian activities of the Military
Airlift Command. The flag presented to one of America’s
first military pilots, Henry H. “Hap” Arnold, in recogni-
tion of his attaining the rank of General of the Air Force,
was added to the World War II Aviation gallery. New pan-
els beneath the Voyager spacecraft and a final version of
the film Dynamic Worlds of Jupiter and Saturn updated
the Exploring the Planets gallery. Photographs and arti-
facts relating to the pioneer balloonist Thomas G. W.
“Tex” Settle were added to the Balloons and Airships gal-
lery. During the 1920s and 1930s, Tex Settle was a leading
airshipman, balloonist, and space pioneer.

Smaller exhibitions this year included: Aerial Firefight-
ing, presenting U.S. Department of Agriculture Forest
Service uses of aircraft to fight fires, and a short film shot
during actual operations in firefighting season on “smoke-
jumping”; Tooling Up for Space, exhibiting the tools that
were used to repair the Solar Max Satellite as shown in
The Dream Is Alive. Another small exhibition was Sight-
seeing: A Space Panorama, consisting of twenty-eight pho-
tographs from NASA on display in Space Hall. Significant
aviation milestones are commemorated in a new Aero-
space Anniversary Case in the Hall of Air Transportation.
Commemorated this year were the 1905 flight of the
Wright Flyer III to the founding of the European Space
Agency ten years ago; and the fiftieth anniversaries of the
first flight of the Boeing B-17 “Flying Fortress” and the first
flight of the Douglas DST /DC-3.

The expansion of the NASM artifact preservation and
restoration program of the museum’s Paul E. Garber Pres-
ervation, Restoration, and Storage Facility (Garber Facil-
ity) remains a museum priority. The 1985 restoration of the
Wright Flyer represented an important milestone for the
museum. Considerable research by the museum staff, sup-
plemented by a detailed analysis of the aircraft by the
Smithsonian’s Conservation and Analytical Laboratory,
preceded the restoration work. For the museum, there
were accompanying benefits for future curatorial work: an
expanded collection of photographs, many rare and hith-
erto undiscovered, of the Flyer; a definitive set of blue-
prints determined through staff research; recovery of the
original 1903 crankcase; and myriad kinds of documenta-
tion. Future research and exhibit work, it is anticipated,
will be enhanced by the enlarged body of information that
grew out of the Wright Flyer restoration project.

Progress was made on preserving the large space suit
and garment collection that has been in storage at the Gar-
ber Facility for many years. A complete restoration of the
Applications Technology Satellite (ATS-6) is in progress. A
NASM staff member led a restoration team, which
included Rockwell International personnel, to refurbish
the Apollo Command Module on loan to Moscow. The
Wiseman-Cooke 1910 biplane was also restored this year
at the Garber Facility. Restoration continues on the OS2U
Kingfisher, the Arado 234 German jet, and the SPAD XIII.

Aircraft acquired for the aeronautical study collection
included: a Piper J-2 Cub, the first to bear the Piper name;
a Bell UH-1M Huey; an American Aerolights Eagle I; and
the first certificated molded plastic airplane, the Win-
decker Eagle I. The museum’s F6F Hellcat was restored by
the Grumman Corporation and returned for the forthcom-
ing exhibition on Leroy Grumman and the F6F. Two ultra-
light airplanes, the Sadler Vampire and the Paraplane,
were also accessioned. In anticipation of the 1986 Looking
at Earth gallery, a full-scale model of the Goes Geosta-
tionary weather satellite and two Landsat instruments, a
thematic mapper replica, and a multi-spectral scanner
were accessioned. Also, in anticipation of the upcoming
computer gallery, an SEL 810 B computer was acquired,
and a portable on-board computer from the Space Shuttle
and a unitized electrical assembly that is a part of the
Space Shuttle Columbia’s on-board electronic system were
accessioned.

NASM continues to offer a variety of educational pro-
grams and special events. The museum hosted a Career
Awareness day for university deans and directors of plan-
ning and placement to increase the awareness by minori-
ties of opportunities at the museum. The program
attracted participants from local colleges and universities.

NASM supported National Science Week 1985, spon-
sored by NSF, for students and teachers. Activities at
NASM included a planetarium program for local second-

ary students, a free showing of Comet Ouest, and a lec-
ture. In addition, two separate public lectures were held.
The thirty-six winning entries of the Second Great Interna-
tional Paper Airplane Contest were exhibited for six
months. The NSF supported the contest under the auspices
of Science Week 1985. The contest was sponsored jointly
by NASM, Science 85 magazine, and the Museum of Flight
in Seattle. The paper airplane carried into space and flown
by Senator Jake Garn was also added to the exhibition.

The fourth annual Garber Facility Open House, “Wings
and Things,” continued to be one of the most popular and
highly attended public events sponsored by the museum.
The public was treated to self-guided tours, photo oppor-
tunities, music by the U.S. Air Force Band, and other spe-
cial activities.

The world premiere of the NASM March, “Flight,” was
performed in November by the U.S. Air Force Band with
actor William Conrad as guest narrator. In a continuing
effort to involve both local residents and out-of-town visi-
tors, a series of noontime concerts was held throughout
the year, including the Fourth of July concert by the U.S.
Air Force Band, broadcast live by WMAL/AM Radio.
This year a new summer International Music Festival was
begun, encouraging ethnic groups to perform at NASM.

During the year, the museum offered twelve General
Electric aviation lectures; twelve Monthly Sky lectures;
five Exploring Space lectures; the annual Wernher von
Braun Memorial Lecture by Dr. Christopher Kraft, Jr.,
former director of NASA's Johnson Space Center; the
annual Charles A. Lindbergh Memorial Lecture, delivered
by Donald Engen, administrator of the Federal Aviation
Administration; ten aviation films; eight space fiction
films; and the international symposium on cooperation
and competition in space: “Ten Years After Apollo-Soyuz,”
in conjunction with the tenth anniversary of the Apollo-
Soyuz Test Project.

The past year presented a series of unique opportunities
for the museum and its staff to enlarge its program of
research, exhibitions, and public service. The momentum
from this exceptional period of creative work sets the stage
for the coming year, which will be the museum’s tenth
anniversary on the Mall.

67
National Museum of Natural
History

The National Museum of Natural History/ Museum of
Man (NMNH/MOM), celebrating its 75th year in the
Natural History Building in 1985, houses one of the
world’s largest and most valuable scientific collections,
comprising approximately too million specimens of
plants, animals, rocks, minerals, fossils, and man’s cul-
tural artifacts. This encyclopedic collection, which grows
significantly in size every year, is an essential resource for
the nation’s scientific enterprise. Objects and artifacts are
the responsibility of seven research and curatorial depart-
ments: Botany, Invertebrate Zoology, Entomology, Verte-
brate Zoology, Paleobiology, Mineral Sciences, and
Anthropology. The 120 doctoral level scientists on the
museum staff work in collaboration with visiting scholars,
students, research associates, and approximately 80 scien-
tists from affiliated agencies accommodated in the
museum. Most of the biological research is concerned with
systematics and evolutionary biology. While much of the
research is supported by unparalleled collections, field
work is conducted regularly to fill in the huge gaps that
still exist in the collections, especially those from the trop-
ics. The results of this research are shared with the public
through publications, lectures, and exhibitions—the latter
viewed by approximately six million visitors annually. The
museum’s educational staff provides visitors with tours,
films, and other learning experiences, some of them specif-
ically designed for special groups, such as young people,
the aged, and the disabled.

Diamond Jubilee of Natural History Building, 1910-1985

On March 17, 1985, the Natural History Building was 75
years old. The celebration began with a “Happy Birthday
Natural History Party” for the public, organized by the
Office of Education with the help of docents and volun-
teers. The Natural History Building: A Visual Memoir, an
exhibition of some 90 historical photographs of the build-
ing was opened (March 15—May 31), and two permanent
natural sculptures, consisting of a massive boulder of iron
ore and an arrangement of two large petrified logs, were
unveiled on the plinths that flank the steps up to the muse-
um’s main mall entrance. Special Jubilee souvenir posters
and booklets, the first pictorial directory of the building
staff, and an illustrated scholarly history of the building
were produced. A major exhibition, Magnificent Voyag-
ers: The U.S. Exploring Expedition, 1838-1842, was orga-
nized. It opened in the special exhibition gallery on
November 14, 1985.

68

Festival of India Activities

Aditi: A Celebration of Life, created in New Delhi in 1978
to mark the International Year of the Child, was presented
at the museum (June 4—July 28) as one of the major
Smithsonian contributions to the nationwide Festival of
India. Aditi used the multitude of craft, musical, and ritual
activities that childhood inspires to provide an understand-
ing of the world of the child in Indian culture. The special
exhibition gallery was transformed for the occasion into a
setting suggestive.of a rural Indian village. On display
were upward of 1,500 artifacts—contemporary, historical,
regal, and popular—representing a broad range of tradi-
tional Indian handicraft and art created for children. To
celebrate the many customs and rituals associated with
children, forty folk artists from India, including dancers,
singers, musicians, puppeteers, painters, potters, and jug-
glers, gave demonstrations and performances every day
the exhibition was open. Some 125,000 visitors attended
Aditi, including India’s Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi and
First Lady Nancy Reagan. Office of Education programs
to support this exhibition consisted of films, lectures, and
group tours. More than 125 volunteers were recruited and
trained by the education office to serve exhibition visitors.
The office also developed a multimedia education packet
to supplement studies of India in area schools. In conjunc-
tion with Aditi, two photographic exhibitions were
mounted, Rosalind Solomon, India (June 4—August 31)
and Images of India: Photographs by Lala Deen Dayal
(June 4—August 31).

A Galaxy of Exhibitions

Views of a Vanishing Frontier (January 4—March 31), a
traveling exhibition organized by the Josyln Art Museum,
Omaha, featured paintings and historical objects from the
1832-34 expedition to North America by German natural-
ist Prince Maximilian and Swiss artist Karl Bodmer. The
Zale Diamond, an enormous uncut crystal weighing 980
carats, the largest diamond-in-the-rough in the world, and
the fourth largest ever discovered, was lent by the owner
for temporary display in the museum (November 22-
January 6). Gifts of Mother Earth: Ceramics in the Zuni
Tradition (June 15—March 31, 1986) was a comparative sur-

Workers install a huge boulder of banded iron ore from Michi-
gan’s Upper Peninsula at the Mall entrance to the National
Museum of Natural History to mark the building’s seventy-fifth
anniversary.
Mee WA HE, A
Rata 7
at

Wag

vey of nineteenth-century and contemporary ceramics
from the Zuni pueblo in western New Mexico, circulated
by the Heard Museum, Phoenix, Arizona, in cooperation
with the Zuni pueblo. The exhibition displayed many
pieces from the pottery research collection acquired at
Zuni pueblo in the 1880s by the Smithsonian Bureau of
American Ethnology. Drawn from the Sea, Art in the Serv-
ice of Ichthyology (September 13—December 31, 1985) was
an exhibition of 200 fish illustrations predominantly pro-
duced for publication in Smithsonian and other U.S. gov-
ernment scientific studies. These works, many of them
unpublished, dating from 1838 to 1980, were selected from
the more than 10,000 drawings in the files of the museum’s
Division of Fishes. The division, part of the museum’s
Department of Vertebrate Zoology, is one of the oldest
units of the Smithsonian. The Smithsonian Institution
Traveling Exhibition Service will circulate a smaller ver-
sion of the exhibition for three years, beginning February
1, 1986. Birds of the Galapagos Islands: Traditional Water-
colors by Lee Marc Steadman (January 11—March to)
accurately and artistically portrayed characteristic Galapa-
gos birds. Mammals in the Limelight, a permanent new
exhibition hall focusing on the spectacular explosion of
mammalian evolution in North America after dinosaurs
died out 65 million years ago, opened on May 30. The
hall’s dramatic murals depict scenes of animal and plant
life in successive epochs of the Age of Mammals and pro-
vide settings for hundreds of fossil specimens assembled
from fossils unearthed in the past century and a half in the
American West by scientists from the Smithsonian and
other institutions. A microcosm of a Maine coastal ecosys-
tem with live kelp, rockweed, marsh grass, lobsters, scal-
lops, clams, mussels, pollock, and flatfish, housed in a
3,000-gallon aquarium system that uses a variety of elec-
tronic, mechanical, and biological devices to simulate nat-
ural conditions on Maine’s rocky coastline, was placed on
long-term display on June 28, adjacent to the living coral
reef microcosm in the first floor Sea Life Hall. The two
miniature environments complement each other, offering a
comparison of warm-water and cold-water ecosystems
and a demonstration of the way in which systems in micro-
cosm are helping scientists better understand wild Marine
environments. The development of the Maine ecosystem
by the Smithsonian Marine Systems Laboratory (MSL),
the same museum scientific team that devised the coral reef
microcosm five years ago, was made possible by MSL
research conducted in 1981-82 at Gouldsboro Bay, Maine,
in cooperation with the University of Maine, with funding
by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
(NOAA). NOAA and Chevron U.S.A. Inc. provided addi-

7O

tional funds for the construction of the Maine microcosm,
which will be used for research and display in combination
with the coral reef microcosm. Blue Planet, a 15-minute
film produced by the Smithsonian Office of Telecommuni-
cations, is shown continuously in a small theater near the
two microcosms. It shows MSL scientists conducting
research on coastal ecosystems in the Caribbean and
Maine, work that is pointing the way to new methods for
managing and utilizing the ocean and aquatic resources of
the Earth.

Natural Science Symposium

Three hundred twenty-five outstanding science students
and seventy-five of their teachers from Washington, D.C.,
metropolitan area high schools participated in a three-day
Natural Science Symposium at the museum, February 22—
24, 1985. The goal of the symposium, the first of its kind
ever held at the Smithsonian, was to give science teachers
and promising junior and senior high school students from
fifty-seven area public and private schools a glimpse of
research in biology, earth science, and anthropology as it is
conducted at a natural history museum. The program fea-
tured noted speakers, films, small discussion groups with
museum scientists, and a behind-the-scenes tour. The
event was planned by the museum’s Office of Education
and curators in cooperation with Washington, D.C., area
high school science supervisors. Funding was provided by
the Mars Foundation and the Elis Olsson Memorial Foun-
dation.

Major Publications

Arctic, the fifth volume of the Smithsonian’s projected
twenty-volume encyclopedic Handbook of North Ameri-
can Indians, was published in December. Forty-three lead-
ing international authorities in anthropology, lingtistics,
and history contributed articles to the work, which focuses
on the culture of the Eskimo and Aleut peoples of Green-
land, Canada, Alaska, and Siberia. The volume was edited
by David Damas of McMaster University. The complete
Handbook is being published under the general editorship
of Dr. William C. Sturtevant at the Smithsonian. A Field
Manual of the Ferns and Fern Allies of the United States
and Canada, written by botanist David B. Lellinger, was
published in 1985 by the Smithsonian Institution Press. It is
the first complete field guide of its kind in North America.
Treating over 400 species, many of which are illustrated by
color photographs, the guide is expected to be an invalu-
able aid to scientists, horticulturists, and amateur bota-
nists.

Notable Collection Acquisitions

The museum acquired the Small/ Nicolay butterfly collec-
tion. With more than 100,000 specimens, consisting of
many rarities and new species and subspecies, it is one of
the premier collections of New World tropical butterflies.
Another unique acquisition was the Brodzinsky /Lopez-
Penha fossil amber collection. Of great interest to paleon-
tologists, taxonomists, and zoogeographers, it consists of
5,000 pieces of amber containing rare fossilized insects and
plants, a collection unmatched in any museum or private
collection in the world.

Two New Research Programs: Studies of Global
Volcanism and Caribbean Coral Reef Ecosystems
Under Stress

With new funding received from Congress in 1985, the
museum began to expand and streamline its volcanological
data bank, making the stored historical information on
volcanism available to scientists at the Smithsonian and
other volcanological study centers via personal computers.
The museum also began to expand its archive of maps,
photographs, and other information important to under-
standing historical volcanism. One of the first products of
the program, published in 1986, was a joint U.S. Geologi-
cal Survey-Smithsonian map of the world’s volcanoes and
earthquakes. Efforts are also underway to enhance the
operations of the Scientific Event Alert Network (SEAN),
a museum organization that celebrated its tenth anniver-
sary in 1985. SEAN compiles a regular report on current
volcanism, based on reports of a global network of corre-
spondents. This publication, disseminated through the
geological and geophysical community, has been of great
importance in stimulating research on active volcanoes.
The museum’s ongoing study of the coral reef communi-
ties around Carrie Bow Cay, Belize, Central America, the
most exhaustive and comprehensive long-term analysis of
a Caribbean coral reef ever undertaken, was expanded in
1985 to include other Caribbean sites. Over the past twelve
years, more than ninety scientists from the Smithsonian
and museums and universities throughout the world have
worked at Carrie Bow Cay on the virtually untouched bar-
rier reef off Belize, second only in size to the Australian

Dr. Donald R. Davis, Museum of Natural History entomologist, |
examines a piece of fossil amber from a newly acquired collection

of Dominican amber. Rare and unusually complete examples of

fossilized insects and plants are contained in the 5,000 pieces of

amber in this collection.

Great Barrier Reef. The present program has now reached
a point where the knowledge gained from the Carrier Bow
Cay studies can be applied to investigations of other reef
areas, not only off Belize but in other locations of the trop-
ical western Atlantic as well. Reefs, productive and diverse
biological communities of considerable value to man, are
under stress at various locations in the Caribbean as a con-
sequence of disturbances caused by man, such as oil pollu-
tion, silting, and overfishing, and by natural factors, such
as unusually low seasonal temperatures, hurricanes, and
coral disease. The new comparative studies will form the
basis for the development of an ecological model that will
be used to predict the effects of natural and man-induced
stresses on reef ecosystems throughout the Caribbean
basin.

Another ongoing Caribbean project in 1985 was Acting
Museum Director James C. Tyler’s underwater habitat
(Hydrolab) research in the Virgin Islands. Using saturated
diving techniques, he is studying larval fish recruitment
processes as factors in determining the patterns of a coral
reef fish community.

Research in Africa on Human Evolution
and Tropical Biology

Physical anthropologist Richard Potts is studying sites in
Kenya at Lainyamok, Olorgesaile, Kanam, and Kanjera,
where there are hominid fossils, stone artifacts, animal

7a
bones, and other evidence of hominid activities in a time
period ranging from one and a half to a half-million years
ago. By looking at the changes that took place in these
ancient ecological settings, possibly precipitated by some
hominid activities, Potts hopes to increase understanding
of the effect of ecological settings on human evolution.

Paleobiologists Anna K. Behrensmeyer and Scott L.
Wing, in cooperation with colleagues at Harvard Univer-
sity and the University of Poitiers, France, in 1985 began a
three-year study of Miocene age sedimentary deposits in
the Republic of Cameroon, a region believed to be of great
importance in hominid evolution. Initial field work at the
site of an ancient lake, between eight to ten million years
old, in the rift valley area of north-central Cameroon,
yielded a large collection of fossil leaves and seeds that per-
mitted a reconstruction of the Miocene paleoenvironment
and paleoclimate—the milieu of hominid evolution. Anal-
ysis indicates that the Miocene vegetation of the area was a
wet tropical forest, the first record of this fact.

The Smithsonian’s African small mammal collection,
containing more than 100,000 specimens, is a principal
reference in the world for establishing the distribution and
types of African rodents and other small mammals and
their ectoparasites. Although West African mammals are
generally well represented in the collection, there was little
from Sierra Leone, a regrettable omission, as knowledge of
species occurrence in this area is critical to understanding
broad patterns of mammalian speciation on the African
continent. The first efforts to fill this zoogeographic void
were undertaken recently by mammalogist Michael D.
Carleton in a survey of the vertebrate fauna in the
Outamba-Kilimi National Park, situated in remote and
relatively undisturbed northern Sierra Leone. Led by
Carleton, a Smithsonian field team, funded by the
Smithsonian’s Scholarly Studies Program, spent two
months at the Park conducting a small mammal census.
Carleton is now studying the taxonomic status, phyloge-
netic relationships, ecology, and zoogeographic affinity of
the rodent genera collected, as a framework from which to
examine broader patterns of distribution and phylogenetic
diversification especially among forest-dwelling rodents.

Because of his authoritative knowledge of the mountain-
ous forest flora of Kenya, botanist Robert B. Faden was
invited in May on a National Museums of Kenya expedi-
tion to the Tatia Hills. On the upper slopes of these Ken-
yan mountains are remnant forest patches containing
numerous endemic and rare plant and animal species. The
forests are now being cut for timber and firewood, hence
the urgency of the expedition, which was charged with
making a conservation proposal. The expedition assessed

72

the current status of the forest and made collections—
including a previously undescribed species of coffee—to
document the disappearing vegetation.

Mediterranean Research

Erosion of the Nile Delta has increased considerably since
the construction of the Aswan Dam, with potentially dire
future consequences for Egyptian agricultural production.
Working in cooperation with the Egyptian Coastal
Protection Institute and Italian and French colleagues, geo-
logical oceanographer Daniel J. Stanley began coring in
September—October 1984 to define the Holocene sediments
on the northeastern area of the Delta. Of particular inter-
est are rates of Nile Delta subsidence and erosion, changes
in the Nile River distributary system, and changes in the
configuration of the coastline. This project is being funded
by grants from Texaco and the Smithsonian Scholarly
Studies Fund.

Native American Studies

New evidence that domesticated crops were being culti-
vated by eastern North American Indians long before the
introduction of maize from Mexico was documented in an
October 1984 issue of Science by museum archeologist
Bruce Smith. The discovery is a case history of how an
object in the museum’s collections, carefully preserved for
many years, can be restudied with the aid of advanced
technology and yield important scientific information.
Smith, searching the collections for evidence of prehistoric
horticultural practices, discovered a mass of carbonized
seeds in a charred saucer-shaped basket unearthed in 1956-
58 Smithsonian excavation of Russell Cave in Alabama, a
site where a ten-millennium-long sequence of intermittent
human occupation is documented. The seeds were identi-
fied as Chenopodium berlandieri, a starchy-seeded native
North American plant. In the 1950s the archeologist who
thought to save the basket of seeds could neither date them
nor ascertain their wild or domesticated status, but in the
intervening years methods to determine both have devel-
oped. Smith sent the mass of 50,000 seeds to the Smithso-
nian Radiocarbon Dating Laboratory where a sample was
determined to be 1,975 years old, plus or minus 55 years.
Using one of the museum’s scanning electron microscopes,
Smith compared the seeds from Russell Cave to both a
modern domesticated chenopodium variety from Mexico
and to modern wild eastern North American species, and
he found that his seeds exhibited several of the distinctive
morphological characteristics associated with the modern
domesticated chenopodium. It is not known whether this
early domesticate was introduced from Mexico or was the
product of an independent process of domestication, but
Smith’s work establishes that this starchy-seeded domesti-
cate was being stored and planted in prehistoric Woodland
Indian garden plots by about 2,000 years ago.

Return Expeditions to Cerro de la Neblina and Aldabra

Cerro de la Neblina, the largest and most scientifically
interesting of the isolated sheersided mesas, known as
tepuis, in southeast Venezuela’s “Lost World” region, is the
focus of a major international study. Flown by helicopter
to the top of Neblina, nearly one hundred scientists from
the Smithsonian and other major research institutions
were able to study and collect for the first time in 1984-85
many of the unique plants and animals that have evolved
on this high cloud-shrouded tepui. Museum entomologists
Terry Erwin and Paul Spangler and botanist Vicki Funk
were among nine museum scientists who made large col-
lections of rare and undescribed taxa during a month’s
visit to Neblina in early 1985. With their return in March,
the fieldwork is nearly complete. Major scientific publica-
tions are planned with contributions by the expedition
Participants.

Aldabra, a giant coral atoll in the southwestern Sey-
chelles Islands, is as remote and difficult to reach as Cerro
de la Neblina, and equally as interesting biologically.
Museum scientists launched a long-term collaborative
study of this remarkable ecological system in 1983, sending
out a highly successful expedition to the atoll. A second
expedition was turned back in 1984 because of stormy
weather in the Indian Ocean—the atoll is accessible only
by ship—but in March 1985 a group of eight scientists and
technicians, led by the museum’s Brian Kensley, reached
the atoll and was able to spend three weeks there, assem-
bling large and significant collections of the atoll’s unqiue
flora and fauna and gathering valuable research data on
the colony of giant tortoises.

Algal Research at the Smithsonian Marine Station at
Link Port

Under the administration direction of the museum, twenty
scientists from the museum and the Smithsonian Environ-
mental Research Center, along with their colleagues from
other institutions, in 1985 utilized the Smithsonian Marine

Station at Link Port to conduct marine biological research.
The facility is located on the Indian River on the east coast
of central Florida near Fort Pierce, not far from the Atlan-
tic Ocean, within the complex of the Harbor Branch Foun-
dation, Inc., a not-for-profit organization for research in
the marine sciences. Several marine botanical projects are
currently in progress, including continuing study and anal-
ysis of deep-water plant life discovered in 1984 on an
uncharted sea mount off San Salvador Island in the Baha-
mas, utilizing the Johnson Sea-Link submersible of the
Harbor Branch Foundation, Inc. The studies are a collabo-
rative effort of Mark M. Littler, Diane M. Littler, James
N. Norris, Katina E. Bucher, all of the museum, and M.
Dennis Hanisak and Stephen Blair of the Harbor Branch
Foundation. Thus far they have described a rich assem-
blage of unique plant life on the sea mount, as well as the
deepest known records for autotrophic plant life, at a
depth of 268 meters. The ambient light levels at this depth
were one-hundredth of the theoretical minimum needed
for plant life to survive. The studies are continuing with
the further objectives of discovering new forms of plant
life in the deep sea and ascertaining their potential roles in
primary productivity, food webs, sedimentary processes,
and as reef builders on tropical insular and continental
borderlands.

Oceanographic Sorting Center Now Located at Museum
Support Center

The Museum Support Center (MSC), administered by the
museum, completed its second full year of operation. Cov-
ering four and one-half acres of land at Silver Hill, Mary-
land, the MSC is devoted exclusively to collections
management, providing optimum conditions for the stor-
age, care, and study of Smithsonian collections. The stor-
age system in the MSC designed to contain biological
collections preserved in solutions was completed in 1985,
and the physical move of those collections from the Mall
was accomplished successfully. Concomitant with this
move was the corresponding increase in the utilization of
the laboratories supporting the management and research
of these collections, most notably the move of the Oceano-
graphic Sorting Center to the MSC from its previous resi-
dence within the Washington Navy Yard. The Sorting
Center, administered by the museum, carried out basic
classification of animals and plant materials collected on
oceanographic expeditions sponsored by various organiza-
tions and Federal agencies. These materials are distributed
to scientists around the world concerned with the study of
marine organisms.

We:

National Zoological Park

The National Zoological Park (NZP) is dedicated to edu-
cation, science, recreation, and conservation.

Animal Collection and Exhibits

The Invertebrate, Herpetology, Ornithology, and Mam-
malogy departments had a collection of 2,017 animals for
public exhibition and education. There were more than
350 births and hatchings, including numerous reptiles,
amphibians, birds, and mammals. Among the mammals
born were giraffe, pygmy hippopotamus, sea lion,
hammer-headed and big fruit bats, red panda, and white-
cheeked gibbon and siamang. Births contribute to interna-
tional breeding programs for endangered species.

Two female North American bison were added to the
exhibits. This species, part of the original NZP collection,
symbolizes the contribution of zoos to conservation. Asian
lions added to the collections are part of a cooperative
breeding plan for this cat.

Major renovations took place in the Bird House where
red-billed hornbills and black-palm cockatoos occupy
entirely new exhibits. A very popular invertebrate display
opened in the lobby of the Education/ Administration
Building; this is the forerunner of a major exhibit planned
for 1986. A new bat exhibit has become another favorite of
Zoo visitors. Extensive plantings of specially chosen
flowers are luring masses of butterflies to the Zoo.

Dr. Edwin Gould, curator of Mammals, continued his
research on regurgitation and other stereotypic behavior in
gorillas; he discovered that adding browse in the form of
leafy tree branches virtually eliminates regurgitation. Col-
lection Manager Elizabeth Frank cooperated with NZP
veterinarians and researchers in using hormone injections
to stimulate ovulation in Ling-Ling, the female giant
panda. Collection Manager William Xanten collaborated
on an artificial insemination program for ringtailed mon-
goose. Dr. John Seidensticker (Department of Mammal-
ogy) conducted behavioral studies of the Zoo’s leopards
and Asian lions; these and other studies yield information
that will promote captive breeding. Dr. Benjamin Beck,
research primatologist, continued to develop techniques
for preparing captive-born golden lion tamarins for intro-
duction to the wild.

Dr. Dale Marcellini, curator of herpetology, collabo-
rated with scientists at other institutions in studies on the
niches of Cuban anolan lizards and curly-tailed lizards in
Haiti. Research by Reptile House keepers resulted in the
successful rearing of pythons, boas, and several frog spe-
cies.

74

Charles Pickett, assistant curator of ornithology, in col-
laboration with a variety of agencies and the government
of Pakistan, worked to plan a new national zoo for Islama-
bad, Pakistan. Collection Manager Paul Tomassoni led
Bird House keepers in an avicultural research program
involving bower bird and sun bittern breeding, food deliv-
ery systems for waterfowl, and hand-rearing techniques.

Conservation

The Department of Conservation (DOC) located at NZP’s
Conservation and Research Center (CRC) in Front Royal,
Virginia, is dedicated primarily to the propagation of ver-
tebrate species threatened with extinction. Research and
breeding programs carried out in collaboration with other
NZP departments and other institutions are aimed at
increasing knowledge of animal management, conserva-
tion biology, and basic biology.

In 1985, Mr. Guy Greenwell, senior ornithologist,
retired. Dr. Wemmer presented an invited paper at a work-
shop on black-footed ferrets in Wyoming and visited
Nepal and India to consult on ungulate-habitat relation-
ships in Royal Chitwan National Park, Nepal; he also con-
tinued studies on the population biology of domestic
elephants. Dr. Derrickson presented two papers at the 1985
Crane Workshop in Nebraska. SI Research Associate Dr.
Joel Berger continued field studies on the social behavior
of American bison. Drs. Wildt, Bush, Phillips, Wemmer,
and Collection Manager Larry Collins started research
into the collecting, freezing, and transferring of embryos in
non-domestic hoofed stock. Aspects of the behavior of the
Guam rail and Micronesian kingfisher are being investi-
gated by Drs. Moynihan (STRI), Morton, and Derrickson.

During the year, the Center hosted over 200 visiting sci-
entists, students, and other official visitors. Dr. Rudran’s
Wildlife Conservation and Training course was again held
at the Center, and included sixteen overseas participants.
NMNH, STRI, SERC, and NZP personnel visited the
Center in conjunction with the Interbureau Tropical Biol-
ogy Conference.

A number of notable events at the DOC this year
include: the birth and successful rearing of two tiger
quolls—the first recorded captive breeding of this species
outside Australia; and the birth of many highly endan-
gered mammals and birds including Pére David’s deer (the
tooth fawn born at the Center), Goeldi’s marmoset,

Hsing-Hsing (top) and Ling-Ling play on their furniture at the
National Zoo during breeding season.
Wielding shovels at the Olmstead Walk ground-breaking cere-
mony, August 19, 1985, are (/eft to right) Dr. Roscoe Moore,
president of the Friends of the National Zoo; David Challinor,
Assistant Secretary for Science; John Jameson, Assistant Secre-
tary for Administration; Michael Robinson, director of the
National Zoo; and David McCullough, host of “Smithsonian
World.”

golden-lion tamarin, maned wolf, clouded leopard, Eld’s
deer, Persian onager, Laysan teal, Guam rail, Micronesian
kingfisher, and Bali mynah.

At the DOC, construction of the new Small Animal
Facility was completed, and the new Animal Hospital is
currently under construction and nearing completion.

Education and Public Affairs

For the Zoo’s Office of Education (OE) conservation edu-
cation was a primary focus in 1985. Through two major
efforts—*“A Tropical Forest Festival” for the public and a
zoo educator’s workshop on “Conservation and the Zoo
Visitor’—OE continued to investigate methods to educate
visitors about worldwide conservation issues.

In June 1985, OE organized “Summerfest 85: A Tropical
Forest Festival.” Through storytellers, music, dance,
mime, mural painting, animal demonstrations, and a spe-
cial “Tropical Pursuit” conservation game, visitors were
made aware of the importance of tropical forests and the

76

reasons they should be preserved.

Ongoing school programs continued to be extremely
successful, and several new programs were developed
including a special small mammals program led by keep-
ers, for pre-kindergarten through the sixth grades. New
high school curriculum units, Primate Behavior and Zoo
Design, were developed to stimulate greater high school
teacher and student use of zoo facilities.

The Office of Public Affairs (OPA), besides providing
general information on Zoo programs and activities to the
public and media, also organizes the annual NZP Sympo-
sium for the Public. This year the symposium program
received a Significant Achievement award from the Ameri-
can Association of Zoological Parks and Aquariums
(AAZPA). The proceedings of the first public symposium,
Animal Extinctions, edited by Dr. Robert Hoage, was
published by the Smithsonian Institution Press.

OPA and The Friends of the National Zoo (FONZ)
cosponsor a Wildlife Studies Certificate Program in which
wildlife enthusiasts can obtain a certificate by completing
six courses. To date, thirty classes have been offered on a
variety of subjects with nearly 425 participants.

OPA produced and coordinated a series of eight summer
concerts, the Sunset Serenades. These attracted between
400 and 700 people for each concert with family groups
being most numerous.

Animal Health and Pathology

The Department of Animal Health (DAH) provides veteri-
nary care for the NZP animal collection both at Rock
Creek and CRC. The clinical staff participates in research
and technique development; conducts postgraduate train-
ing; publishes extensively; and participates in continuing
education all to advance zoological medicine. Interna-
tional programs include participation by Drs. Bush and
Wildt in immobilization-reproductive-genetic studies in
Kenya and Tanzania.

Extensive efforts continued in physiological and endo-
crinological research that emphasizes the comparative
study of nondomestic and domestic animal models. Dur-
ing the past year new procedures were formulated for
long-term banking of both spermatozoa and embryos.
Considerable progress was made in initiating an embryo
recovery and freezing program involving the scimitar-
horned oryx herd from the CRC. This program is directed
by Dr. Wildt and conducted by collaborators at the
National Institutes of Health and the Uniformed Services
University of the Health Sciences.
Clinical research directly applicable to veterinary care of
z00 patients includes diagnostic studies of Mycobacterium
ssp., rabies prophylaxis and vaccination response in mam-
mals, monoclonal killed canine distemper vaccines, appro-
priate anthelmintics for reptilian parasites, and adrenal
response to immobilization and surgical manipulation in
selected primate, ungulate, and carnivore species. Studies
of zoo animal viruses and vaccines, especially those involv-
ing canine distemper and rabies, were funded by Charles
Ulrich and Josephine Bay Foundation through the Ameri-
can Association of Zoo Veterinarians.

The Department of Pathology (DOP) engages in applied
research and teaching in addition to diagnostic services.
Research continues to center around disease problems in
the collection, with emphasis on the development of pro-
phylactic measures.

Ongoing projects include a collaborative project with
Dr. Oliver Ryder (Zoological Society of San Diego) and
Dr. George Allen (University of Kentucky) on the preva-
lence of the EHV-1 virus in a variety of exotic equids,
including the NZP Przewalski horse herd; and Dr. Don
Nichols’ work on atherosclerosis as a natural disease in
birds and the effect of captive diets on this.

Dr. Montali and his staff have continued their training
of individuals at several levels. Preceptorships were com-
pleted by Monique Wells and Christine Plowman. Vera
Bonshock, Anne Bratthauer, and Donna Fischer super-
vised a summer program for high school students, Susan
Ingraham and Benjamin Fishman, sponsored by the Amer-
ican Cancer Society.

Research

The goal of the Department of Zoological Research (DZR)
is to provide scientific support and creative innovation for
the research, conservation, and education missions of the
NZP.

A primary function of DZR is to promote collaboration
in research on general problems. Programs have ranged
from long-term field studies in many areas of the world
and involving many scientists, to one-on-one collabora-
tions in testing a specific hypothesis. Current collaborative
projects include twenty-one with staff in other NZP
departments, five with other SI bureaus, thirty-nine with
universities, and twenty-eight with other institutions,
including zoos.

Research projects in 1985 include: the rehabilitation and
training of captive-born golden lion tamarins prior to their
reintroduction in the Poco das Antas Reserve and else-

Some of the eleven black-tailed prairie dogs born in the spring of
1985 at the Zoo try the great outdoors.

where in Brazil which has involved monitoring animals
which had been released in 1984 as well as young born to
released captive-born parents. In 1985 two more groups
were released outside of the Reserve, one with and one
without training. Drs. Benjamin Beck and Devra Kleiman
and several Brazilian students worked with those animals
to train them in techniques of foraging and finding new
foods, and locomotor and orientation behavior. Dr. James
Dietz continued studies of the behavioral ecology of wild
golden lion tamarins to determine their feeding habits,
home range and movements, and social organization. Lisa
Forman visited Brazil to collect tissue and blood samples
for her studies of the genetic relationships among the three
forms of lion tamarins and within the captive and wild
population of golden lion tamarins. Initial results suggest
that lion tamarins show little genetic variation. Andrew
Baker started studies on the effects of age, sex, and status
on the behavior of golden lion tamarins in intergroup
encounters. Lou Ann Dietz has been coordinating a local
and national educational program in Brazil concerning
conservation of golden lion tamarins.

Dr. Rudran conducted wildlife management training
courses in Sri Lanka and Venezuela. Dr. Eugene Morton
continued his research program on the evolution of animal
vocal communication, including collaborative studies with

UL.
Dr. Eyal Shy on the evolution and function of bird song.
Dr. Morton and Dr. Russell Greenberg continued collabo-
rative studies on the development of feeding and foraging
behavior in migratory birds relating the differences in
behavioral development of species to their feeding adapta-
tions and habitat selection as adults. Dr. Morton contin-
ued his involvement with conservation of migratory birds
through the evaluation of habitat along typical bird migra-
tion routes.

Dr. Katherine Ralls continued her studies of sea otter
behavioral ecology, and with Dr. Donald Siniff of the Uni-
versity of Minnesota radio-tracked and followed the
behavior of several male sea otters living in an all-male
bachelor group.

Dr. Steven Thompson continued studies of the compara-
tive energetics of eutherian and marsupial mammals. This
research will focus on the changes in the metabolism of
marsupials and eutherian mammals during the course of
the reproductive cycle. Dr. Theodore Grand continued his
studies of the relationship between anatomy, morphology,
and behavior.

Dr. John Gittleman, postdoctoral fellow, continued his
work on red panda development and vocalizations and in
collaboration with Dr. Olav Oftedal and Dr. Kleiman stud-
ied behavioral development and lactation in black bears.

Dr. Oftedal and Dr. Daryl Boness completed their
project on hooded seal lactation and milk composition,
and continued long-term studies of behavioral develop-
ment, lactation, and the effects of E] Nino on reproductive
success in the California sea lion, together with Dr.
Katherine Ono. Mary Allen continued her studies of
insect-eating animals and captive diets. Dr. Susan Crissey
started a joint analysis between DZR and CRC of milk
composition during development in several cervid species.
Dr. Wolfgang Dittus and Anne Baker-Dittus continued
long-term study of Toque macaques of Sri Lanka.

Dr. Kleiman continued studies of the social and repro-
ductive behavior of giant pandas.

Construction and Support Services

The Office of Construction Management (OCM) com-
pleted renovation of a number of exhibits. Olmsted Walk
was redesigned to reflect, enhance, and preserve the natu-
ral and historic character of the Zoo. Construction of
Phase I in the lower third of the Park began in August 1985.
Other major design projects include a veterinary hospital
at Rock Creek, and invertebrate and gibbon exhibits. The

78

A golden lion tamarin named Lancelot raises his voice in a call.
He was one of the animals sent to Brazil as part of the reintro-
duction project.

veterinary facility at CRC was completed and design of a
consolidated maintenance facility begun.

The Office of Facilities Management (OFM) continued
its important role of maintaining the Zoo’s property and
supporting the animal programs. Two exhibits (prototype
invertebrate enclosures in the Education Building and the
Festival of India area in the Reptile House) were con-
structed by OFM and the Office of Graphics and Exhibits |
(OGE) personnel. Support of over thirty-five special events
was provided with everything from evening lighting to the
construction of a permanent entertainment platform.

OGE designed and produced a brochure for the Wildlife
Conservation and Management Training course and a
poster featuring endangered species. Experimental educa-
tion graphics for the prairie dog and hippo exhibits were
also undertaken.

A scratching tree was fabricated for the African elephant
and banners once again announced the start of the summer
season. OGE continued to support Summerfest, FONZ
ZooNights, Sundays at the National Zoo, Sunset Sere-
nades, Seal Day, and the annual symposium.

Park security and enforcement remain high with the
Friends of the National Zoo

Financial Report for the Period January 1-December 31, 1984

{In $1,000s]

Net increase /

Net (decrease) to
revenue Expense fund balance
Fund Balance @ 1/1/84 $1,412
Services
Membership Soe. $ 485 107
Publications 142 149 (7)
Education! 697 (598)
Zoo Services” 4,319 3,558 761
Totals $5,150 $4,889 $ 263
Fund Balance @ 12/31/84 $1,6754

1Excludes services worth an estimated $358,700 contributed by FONZ volunteers.

*Includes gift shops, parking services, and food services.

3Includes $425,193 paid during this period to the Smithsonian Institution under contractual arrangement.
4Net worth, including fixed assets, to be used for the benefit of educational and scientific work at the National Zoological Park.

added surveillance of five new closed-circuit television
cameras, assisting the Office of Police and Safety (OPS) in
providing protective services. The Safety Unit continues its
efforts to reduce employee lost-time accidents and improve
visitor safety. Increased Park-sponsored events challenge
OPS’s resources, but innovations such as employee occu-
pational safety training programs, the use of part-time
officers, and fire detection and suppression efforts keep the
Zoo a safe place to visit and work in.

Friends of the National Zoo

The Friends of the National Zoo (FONZ) enjoyed their
most successful years ever in 1984 and 1985 with support of
Zoo efforts in education, conservation, and research. Vol-
unteer contributions expanded substantially. With leader-
ship from the regular core of more than 600 volunteers, a
force of 750 persons spent 7,000 man hours to build struc-
tural play furniture for the giant pandas, completing the
project in four days. The second National Zoofari, an out-
door evening entertainment and silent auction planned by

FONZ directors, produced a 645,000 addition to the The-
odore H. Reed Animal Acquisition Fund. Grant support of
NZP-directed wildlife studies reached $428,000 in 1985. In
8,404 hours of attending the NZP Hand Rearing Facility
volunteers had numerous successes in the care of mammals
and birds, including the first rearing of a cusimanse (Afri-
can mongoose).

FONZ staff managed over 50,000 hours of volunteer
operations of a dozen education and information services.
The first class of eleven teenage Senior Zoo Aides became
qualified to assist curators and keepers in animal care. The
ZooNight attendance was 18,000 members and families.
Members planted additional flower gardens and donated
funds for fifty new benches.

Services for visitors grew in 1985 with improvements in
food display, addition of snack carts, training and uni-
forming of traffic aides, and changes in management pro-
cedures.

Financial information for calender year 1984 is given
below. A percentage of revenues from Zoo Services is paid
to the Smithsonian for the benefit of the National Zoo and
is reported as income by the Institution.

79
Office of Fellowships and Grants

The Office of Fellowships and Grants (OFG) continues to
serve as an Institutional link with scholarly organizations
throughout the world. The Office encourages research by
persons from universities, museums, and research organi-
zations in the fields of art, history, and science. It brings
scientists and scholars to all parts of the Smithsonian to
utilize the unique resources available, as well as to interact
with professional staff. At present, two major activities are
managed and developed by the office: Academic Programs
and the Smithsonian Foreign Currency Program (SFCP).

Academic Programs at the Smithsonian support and
assist visiting students and scholars. They provide oppor-
tunities for research to be conducted at Smithsonian facili-
ties, in conjunction with staff members. Residential
appointments are offered at the undergraduate, graduate,
and professional levels.

The Institution further enhances the quality of its
research and also extends the reach of its scholarly efforts
through the Smithsonian Foreign Currency Program. The
SFCP offers grants to the Smithsonian and other U.S.
scholarly institutions to conduct research in a limited num-
ber of foreign countries where “excess currencies” are
available. It is particularly effective in strengthening the
“increase and diffusion of knowledge” on an international
scale.

Academic Programs

The Office of Fellowships and Grants administered a vari-
ety of academic appointments in 1985. The program of
Smithsonian Research Fellowships was begun in 1965. This
year seventy-one predoctoral, postdoctoral, and senior
postdoctoral fellowships were awarded. These appointees
pursue independent research projects under the guidance
of staff advisors for periods of six months to one year in
residence at one of the Institution’s bureaus or field sites.
Topics of study for Smithsonian Fellows included: the
structure and organization of the free Black community in
Richmond, Virginia; a test of dental microwear analysis in
reconstructing diets of prehistoric populations; the influ-
ence of English art and aesthetics on American sculptors in
Italy from 1825 to 1875; analysis of excavated printers’
type; the interactions of leaf phenology and insect her-
bivory; and the xenogenous fertilization of leopard cat
(Felis bengalensis) oocytes.

Twenty-six graduate student fellowships were offered
for ten-week periods during 1985. The participants are
usually junior graduate students beginning to explore ave-
nues that develop into dissertation research. This year

80

some of these fellows studied: shrimp from deep-water
traps off the south and west coasts of Puerto Rico; similar-
ity of song in neighboring versus non-neighboring Ken-
tucky warblers; the kitchen in context: a study of the
social role of the kitchen in seventeenth and eighteenth-
century American house types; Rapael Pumpelly, geologist
of the Gilded Age; and the iconography of the barn in
nineteenth-century American art.

In addition to the general program funded through the
Office of Fellowships and Grants, competitions for fellow-
ships are also held for specific awards. The recipient of the
Harold P. Stern Memorial Fund was in residence at the
Freer Gallery of Art working on the Ukiyo-e collection. At
the National Air and Space Museum the third recipient of
the A. Verville Fellowship will be studying the history of
Turkish aviation, and the Guggenheim Fellow will be
studying the history of the interactive development of
aerospace technology and high energy radiation technol-
ogy. A new International Fellowship was established this
year and the first fellow will be in residence at the National
Air and Space Museum studying the Cierva Autogiros and
the development of rotary-wing flight. In 1985 the recipient
of the Martin Marietta Chair in Space History was in resi-
dence studying the history of space physics from 1934 to
1985. The National Air and Space Museum also appointed
the Charles A. Lindbergh Professor of Aerospace History
who will be studying mechanical flight theories.

A number of senior fellowships continued to be offered
at the Institution. Smithsonian Institution Regents Fellows
in residence this year include Renee Boser Sarivaxivanis,
curator of African Textiles at the Museum of Ethnography,
Basel, Switzerland, who will spend eleven months at the
National Museum of African Art working on historical
aspects of African weaving.

In residence at the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observa-
tory was Bernard Burke, William A. M. Burden Professor
of Astrophysics at Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
During his tenure he worked on the placement of the VLBI
antenna facility in orbit around the earth. The Smithso-
nian Astrophysical Observatory also hosted Jeremiah
Ostriker, chairman of the Department of Astrophysical
Sciences and director of Princeton University Observatory,
while he conducted research on high-energy astrophysics.
Frank Greenaway, chairman of the Royal Institution Cen-
tre for History of Science and Technology, was in residence
at the National Museum of American History researching
artifacts of science and technology. Cambridge University
Professor David Stoddart worked at the National Museum
of Natural History on the biogeography of coral reefs and
islands.

In 1984, the Smithsonian received a three-year grant
from the Rockefeller Foundation Residency Program in
the Humanities for postdoctoral fellowships at the
National Museum of African Art and the Center for Asian
Art. The grant supports research in residence at the muse-
ums in the areas of African art history and anthropology,
especially material culture, and in Asian art history for
research in the collections on topics that may initiate
scholarly symposia, exhibitions, and other major museum
activities. The recipient at the National Museum of Afri-
can Art will study nomadic African women as placema-
kers, the arts and architectures of nomadism in Africa and
the recipient at the Center for Asian Art will study the
meanings of water in Mughal gardens at Agra.

During 1985 bureaus continued to offer support for visit-
ing scientists and scholars in cooperation with the Office
of Fellowships and Grants. These awards made possible
visits to the Smithsonian by twenty-one persons. The
office also expanded the short-term visitor program.
Ninety-one persons came to the Institution to conduct
research, study collections, and collaborate and confer
with professional staff. OFG also instituted a workshop
program to bring scholars together from a variety of fields
to discuss subjects of common or complementary interest.

The expanded role of internships in the academic com-
munity continues to be reflected by support for interns
within the Institution. The National Air and Space
Museum funded nine interns through OFG this year. The
Cooper-Hewitt Museum again appointed three students
under the Sidney and Celia Siegel Fellowship fund. Intern-
ships in environmental studies at the Smithsonian Environ-
mental Research Center also continued. The Smith
College-Smithsonian Program in American Studies is now
in its sixth year and ten students will participate in a semi-
nar course and conduct research projects under the direc-
tion of staff members through this program. Placement of
interns continued through bureau internship coordinators,
while the OFG continues administration of all stipend
awards for internships.

For the fifth year the OFG has offered academic oppor-
tunities aimed at improving minority participation in
Smithsonian programs. The opportunities include fellow-
ships for minority faculty members and faculty from
minority colleges, and internships for minority undergrad-
uates and graduate students. Awards were made to
twenty-five interns who were placed at a variety of
bureaus and offices on the Mall and at the Smithsonian
Environmental Research Center. Some of these appoint-
ments have already developed into more permanent rela-
tionships.

The Office of Fellowships and Grants also awarded five
fellowships to faculty persons to conduct research on sub-
jects such as: Archibald John Motely, Jr., and his artistic
milieu; Bontoc—Igorot of the Philippines and their pres-
ence in the United States, beginning in 1909; Black min-
strelsy and its impact on Black culture in America; a study
of the use of exhibits to interpret Afro-American culture
during the age of disenfranchisement; the dynamics of
power and gender as reflected in Hawaiian performance
contexts.

In 1985 the OFG continued the administration of the
Smithsonian’s cooperative education program. This stu-
dent employment program encourages minority graduate
students to work in professional and administrative posi-
tions at the Institution, separated by periods of study at
their university, and offers the potential for permanent
employment at the Smithsonian. Since January 1983 when
OFG assumed the management of the Cooperative Educa-
tion Program, thirty-one student co-op appointments have
been made in various Smithsonian bureaus.

In 1985 the Office of Fellowships and Grants received
funds to initiate two new programs:

The Native American Program for North American
Indians, Inuit, Aleut, Canadian Natives, Alaskan Natives,
and Native Hawaiians provides opportunities to pursue
research utilizing Smithsonian collections relating to their
cultures, which better enable them to interpret and main-
tain collections in their native museums and archives. The
Native American Program is designed to support directed
and independent research appointments awarded to
Native North Americans. The program’s goal is to pro-
mote access to Smithsonian collections and ongoing
research activities related to Native North Americans by
its participants. In 1985, fourteen appointments were
made. The Visiting Associates Program was also begun to
increase minority participation in Smithsonian research
and study programs. University and college faculty /
administrators, who have a commitment to expanding
minority participation in higher education, will visit the
Smithsonian to learn about ongoing research and research
opportunities. The associates will be asked to serve as
resource contacts and will disseminate Smithsonian
research opportunities information to their respective aca-
demic communities. This year six appointments were
made for an intensive week-long program.

The Smithsonian Foreign Currency Program awards
grants to support the research interests of American insti-
tutions, including the Smithsonian, in those countries in
which the United States holds blocked currencies derived
largely from past sales of surplus agricultural commodities

81
under Public Law 480. The program is active in countries
in which the Treasury Department declares United States
holdings of these currencies to be in excess of normal fed-
eral requirements, including, in 1984, Burma, Guinea,
India, and Pakistan. Research projects are moving toward
conclusion under program support in the former excess-
currency countries of Egypt, Poland, Sri Lanka, Tunisia,
and Yugoslavia.

The Smithsonian received a fiscal year 1985 appropria-
tion of $3,920,000 in “excess” currencies to support
projects in anthropology and archaeology, systematic and
environmental biology, astrophysics, and earth sciences,
and museum professional fields. From its inception in fis-
cal year 1966 through fiscal year 1985, the SFCP has
awarded about s61 million in foreign currency grants to
2.47 institutions in forty-two states and the District of
Columbia and Puerto Rico.

This year the projects, which ranged over many disci-
plines, included: studies of the ritual arts of the Baga of
Guinea; archaeological investigations at Ghaz; Shah, Paki-
stan; research on the Muslim intelligentsia in the
eighteenth-century; historical investigation of the deple-
tion of tropical forests in India; architectural survey of
Nalanda and the Lodi-Mughal transition; studies of food
systems and communications structures; studies of nuclear
elementary particle and relativistic physics applications in
astrophysics; and comparative studies of Old World and
New World tiger beetles.

In this year the Smithsonian conveyed $980,000 equiva-
lent in Pakistan rupees, the third installment of the U. S.
contribution to the UNESCO campaign to salvage and
preserve Moenjodaro, the 4,500-year-old Indus civilization
city in Pakistan. The site discovered first in 1921 is being
eroded by highly saline ground water and floods of the
meandering Indus River. A ground water control scheme
to lower the water table is in place and numerous other
operations are underway.

82

Smithsonian Astrophysical
Observatory

After a somewhat shaky start that included one aborted
launch and the failure of a main engine during its second
lift-off attempt, Space Shuttle Flight 51 F finally achieved
Earth orbit on July 29, 1985. The space vehicle Challenger
carried with it a complex array of scientific experiments on
an eight-day mission intended to study the stars, the Sun,
and distant galaxies, as well as to test advanced technol-
ogy for future missions.

Among the fourteen experiments comprising the Space-
lab 2 package in the Shuttle’s payload bay was a small,
helium-cooled Infrared Telescope (IRT) designed and built
by the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory (SAO) in
cooperation with the University of Arizona and the NASA-
Marshall Space Flight Center, with SAO’s Giovanni Fazio
as Principal Investigator. As soon as the IRT began taking
data, it revealed numerous point sources as well as a sig-
nificant portion of the Milky Way in wavelengths not seen
before. But the SAO telescope also observed something
more intriguing: unusually high levels of background radi-
ation. Indeed, this mysterious infrared radiation would
dominate observing sessions during the flight. The tele-
scope, including its computer software, tracking mecha-
nism, and cryogenic cooling system, worked almost
flawlessly. However, an errant strip of plastic shielding in
the telescope barrel could have produced unwanted radia-
tion. The scientific team is continuing an analysis of the
data—and the detectors—to determine if the infrared
emission could be associated with the Shuttle environ-
ment.

Theorists had suggested that an optical glow reported
on several previous Shuttle missions might be due to the
excitation of molecules produced by the ramming action of
the spacecraft traveling through the not quite vacuum of
space at more than 17,000 miles per hour. A specific IRT
experiment intended to study this glow did not produce
the expected effects, thus suggesting that the predicted
optical glow and the observed infrared background may
result from two separate physical processes. Even with the
high background conditions, the IRT produced new maps
of both the galactic plane and the zodiacal light in wave-
lengths undetected by earlier experiments, including the
Infrared Astronomy Satellite. In addition, tests of the
properties of super-cooled liquid helium in space, essential

|
A small helium-cooled infrared telescope (at left center), designed and built by the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory in coopera-
tion with the University of Arizona and the Marshall Space Flight Center, was one of fourteen experiments making up Spacelab 2, the

most complex scientific mission ever flown aboard a Shuttle vehicle. The experiment was launched July 29, r985, and, during an eight-
day mission, produced new infrared maps of the galactic plane and the zodiacal light. (NASA photograph)
to infrared observations, provided valuable information
for planning future missions.

These interesting results—and lingering questions about
the high infrared background—make the IRT a possible
candidate for reflight aboard another Shuttle. If so, it will
join three other SAO projects already scheduled. In late
1986, an ultraviolet coronal spectrometer designed to mea-
sure temperature and velocity in the solar wind will
become a free-flying satellite deployed and later retrieved
by the Shuttle. The following year, ROSAT, a German-
built X-ray satellite carrying a high-resolution detector
designed and built by SAO, will be launched from the
Shuttle. And, beginning in 1988, the Shuttle will serve as
the base of operations for space science investigations
using a tethered satellite. This imaginative project, which
originated at SAO through the work of Mario Grossi and
the late Giuseppe Colombo, will deploy a small satellite
into Earth’s upper atmosphere at the end of a 10- to 100-
km-long wire tether linked to the orbiting Shuttle. Two
SAO scientists have been selected as experimenters for the
initial flight of this system, to be conducted jointly with
the Italian Space Agency.

SAO scientists were also named this year as principal
investigators for two major space observatories to be
flown in the next decade: the Advanced X-ray Astrophys-
ics Facility and the Space Infrared Telescope Facility. If
approved by Congress and flown by NASA, the two tele-
scopes would be operated as national facilities.

In addition to the space science activities, other research
highlights included the discovery of a rare gravitational
lens effect in which a relatively nearby galaxy in the con-
stellation Pegasus is serving as a “cosmic magnifying glass”
to enhance greatly the image of a much more distant qua-
sar directly behind it. Investigators in high-energy astro-
physics reported finding X-ray-emitting gas around several
elliptical galaxies, which provides further evidence that the
so-called missing mass of the universe may be found in the
great dark halos surrounding galaxies. The data also pro-
vide a means for studying the forces of gravity in regions
extending far beyond the luminous, and thus visible, mat-
ter seen in conventional optical images.

A reevaluation of the best-known map of the universe
by an SAO group using advanced image-processing tech-
niques revealed that some of the supposed distribution of
galaxies in strings and filaments were due to errors in the
original compilation techniques. The discovery, and the
subsequent remapping now under way at the observatory,
could have major implications for theories of cosmology.

And, as Comet Halley began its return to the Sun and its
visibility from Earth increased, astronomers using tele-

84

scopes at the Whipple Observatory in Arizona obtained
exciting new data.

Research carried out by SAO in cooperation with the
Harvard College Observatory is both broad and diverse.
Under a single director, the two observatories form the
Center for Astrophysics (CFA); and, some additional high-
lights, organized by the divisions of the CFA, follow. For
more detailed information, readers are invited to consult
the SAO bibliography published in the appendices to this
volume.

Atomic and Molecular Physics

Since information about astronomical objects is obtained
primarily through analyses of their emitted electromag-
netic radiation and of the modification of this radiation on
its way to Earth, precise and comprehensive atomic and
molecular data are needed to interpret and model the
physical and chemical processes that characterize such
objects. Division scientists seek to provide accurate deter-
minations of these phenomena through a combination of
laboratory and analytical studies. During the year, signifi-
cant progress was achieved in theoretical and experimental
research on photodissociation of radicals and molecules;
radiative transition probabilities in ions and atoms; proton
collisions with multicharged ions; electron-ion collision
cross sections; and radiative, dielectronic, and dissociative
recombination and radiative transition probabilities in
molecules and molecular ions.

Studies relating to planetary atmospheres, comets, and
the interstellar media were also carried out by division
members. For example, because of the critical role ozone
plays in sustaining life on Earth, it was chosen as the first
test gas in the laboratory program. Results of measure-
ments on the effect of atmospheric pressure on the
millimeter-wave radiation of ozone, in combination with
ground-based measurements of radiation from ozone in
the stratosphere, allowed the distribution of ozone with
altitude above Earth to be deduced.

Large-scale computing, fundamental to progress in the-
oretical studies in atomic and molecular physics, was sub-
stantially augmented during the year with the installation
of an IBM 4381 computer.

High Energy Astrophysics

Astronomical objects that emit a substantial fraction of
their energy in X-rays are the focus of research in high-
energy astrophysics. The scope of division study is broad,
addressing the extraordinary processes involved in X-ray
generation, the amount of matter in the universe, and the
origin, development, and ultimate fate of the universe.
Since cosmic X-rays are absorbed by Earth’s atmosphere,
these observations must be made from space via rockets,
the Space Shuttle, or satellites. As some division scientists
and engineers develop new instrumentation to carry out
future space missions, others participate in ongoing pro-
grams of data reduction and analysis from earlier ones,

such as the High Energy Astronomy Observatory satellites

(HEAO 1 and z). These latter investigations were sup-
ported both by observations at ground-based optical and
radio telescopes and by operation of the Einstein Guest
Investigator Program, which has brought scores of
researchers from around the world to SAO in Cambridge.

Analysis of data from the HEAO-2 (Einstein Observa-
tory) satellite revealed the existence of hot, gaseous,
X-ray-emitting coronae associated with many elliptical
and other early-type galaxies. Using this X-ray-emitting
gas to trace the underlying distribution of matter led to the
conclusion that many of these galaxies have very massive
haloes composed of dark matter of an unknown nature.
Other research results included the discovery of extended
X-ray emission in the central region of several nearby gal-
axies displaying recent bursts of star formation; an analy-
sis of X-ray-selected BL Lac objects indicating that they
differ from quasars in their evolution properties; and the
detection of extended X-ray haloes around several com-
pact, galactic sources.

Observations from SAO’s Fred L. Whipple Observatory
at Mt. Hopkins, Arizona, helped correlate X-ray features
of spiral galaxies with optical and radio properties. In
addition, the great sensitivity of the Multiple Mirror Tele-
scope (MMT) is being utilized in a search for very faint
and distant quasars. These data are used to describe how
the numbers of quasars and their radiated energy change
over the lifetime of the universe and to improve estimates
of the quasars’ contribution to the all-sky X-ray back-
ground. The MMT also is being used to search for faint
optical counterparts to X-ray sources found in sensitive
surveys conducted with the Einstein Observatory. Distant
galaxies, clusters of galaxies, and quasars are among the
types of extragalactic objects being found.

Continued NASA funding supported the division’s
design and definition studies for two planned space-
astronomy missions: the Advanced X-ray Astrophysics
Facility and the Large Area Modular Array of Reflectors.
Other programs focused on development and testing of
X-ray-imaging detectors and grating spectrometers of sev-

Although then still some 100,000 times fainter than could be seen
with the human eye, Halley’s Comet was captured on February
16, 1985, by an electronic (CCD) camera on the 24-inch telescope
at the Whipple Observatory. The approximately 18th magnitude
comet (in the square) was moving slowly through the Constella-
tion Orion. To enhance the comet, two ro-minute exposures
were combined, causing the stars to appear slightly elongated.
(Photograph by Rudolph Schild)

eral types; construction of a high-resolution imaging detec-
tor of the HEAO-z type for the Roentgen Satellite
(ROSAT); and design and development of a rocket pay-
load incorporating a normal-incidence X-ray telescope and
of a balloon payload for observing X-ray and gamma-ray
sources.

Optical and Infrared Astronomy

Research in optical and infrared astronomy concentrates
on extragalactic and galactic astronomy, with special
emphasis on clusters of galaxies and of stars and the for-
mation and evolution of stars. In support of these and
other programs, the division operates the Fred Lawrence
Whipple Observatory on Mt. Hopkins, Arizona, the site
of the MMT, which is operated jointly with the University
of Arizona.

Division members also collaborated on the design, con-
struction, and flight of the Infrared Telescope (IRT). Other

85
current programs involving flight instruments include
planning and design of the Shuttle Infrared Telescope
Facility and of a 3-meter balloon-borne telescope, as well
as a possible reflight of the IRT.

Ground-based programs include a new electronic detec-
tor, developed with the University of Arizona and God-
dard Space Flight Center, which will be used to make
high-resolution observations in the ro-micron range from
Steward Observatory in Arizona and Mauna Kea Observa-
tory in Hawaii. And, in cooperation with University Col-
lege, Dublin, the gamma-ray astronomy group at Whipple
Observatory is building a system of electronic detectors for
use in conjunction with the existing 1o-meter optical
reflector to measure the flux of high-energy particles asso-
ciated with the optical bursts of Cerenkov radiation
observed when high-energy gamma rays strike Earth’s
upper atmosphere.

In a study of fundamental importance, division scientists
showed that our understanding of the large-scale structure
of the universe has been flawed by errors in the classic
(Shane-Wirtanen) map of how faint galaxies are distrib-
uted on the sky. Much of the theoretical work based on the
older data may prove to be invalid, which has important
consequences for theories of the early history of the uni-
verse. A major new survey of galaxies was initiated to
address this problem, using modern CCD detectors and
digital image-processing techniques. Soon, division mem-
bers also will commence the “Century Survey” to map the
distribution of galaxies over 100 square degrees, ultimately
sampling more than four times the volume of space coy-
ered by the CFA Redshift Survey.

This systematic study of the distances to galaxies led to
the discovery of a new gravitational lens in the Constella-
tion Pegasus, which is apparently serving as a “cosmic
magnifying glass” to greatly enhance the image of a much
more distant quasar. (According to Einstein’s General The-
ory of Relativity, if a massive object is positioned between
an observer and a distant quasar, the light from that qua-
sar will be deflected, or bent, by the object’s gravitational
field and form one or more images.) In this case, a team of
scientists using both conventional instruments and the
MMT identified the lens system as a r5th magnitude spiral
galaxy on a line directly between Earth and a previously
unidentified quasar at an apparent distance of 2300 Mega-
parsecs (7 billion light years).

Other investigations by division scientists led to detec-
tion of high-energy gamma rays from Cygnus X-3, a pow-
erful X-ray source in our galaxy that may prove to be an
important source of cosmic rays and provide the solution
to a cosmic puzzle.

86

Contour lines defining the X-ray emission from an extended
corona of hot gas are superposed on an optical image of the ellip-
tical galaxy M86 (NGC 4406) in Virgo. The distortion of the
lines results from the stripping of hot gas from the corona by the
rapid passage of this galaxy through the center of the Virgo clus-
ter of galaxies. A second strong X-ray-emitting galaxy, M84
(NGC 4374), is seen at right. (Optical photograph from the
National Geographic-Palomar sky survey; X-ray contours from
the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory)

Planetary Sciences

Members of this division study the planets, satellites, and
small bodies of the solar system in the attempt to under-
stand and describe the events and processes that caused
their creation from gas and dust billions of years ago.
Optical observations of newly discovered, faint, and
unusual minor planets and comets are performed at Oak
Ridge Observatory in Harvard, Massachusetts, and are
closely coordinated with the International Astronomical
Union’s Minor Planet Center and Central Bureau for
Astronomical Telegrams, which are both operated by
SAO.

Some members of this group have helped organize a
program of international cooperation for the observation
of a series of mutual occultations and eclipses of the Gali-
lean satellites. Observers in fifteen countries have agreed
to obtain accurately timed light curves of these events in
order to determine mean motions due to tidal interactions
with the planet.

Another division scientist participated in an expedition
to Antarctica to collect geologic samples across the contact
zone between sediments of the Cretaceous and Tertiary
ages and to analyze them for meteoritic elements and other
types of evidence of the gigantic impact event that alleg-
edly extinguished the dinosaurs.

On previous expeditions, 378 new meteorites were dis-
covered and their radioactivity is being measured to deter-
mine the length of time they have lain across the Antarctic
ice. Several specimens so far measured at SAO show times
varying from 7,000 to 300,000 years.

With the approach of Halley’s Comet, measurements of
its position will be carried out at Oak Ridge Observatory
by use of anew CCD observing system for the astrometry
of asteroids and faint comets. These data are essential for
the proper pointing of instruments carried onboard the
European-built Giotto spacecraft, which will pass close to
Halley early in 1986.

A member of the planetary sciences group also carried
out computer simulations of the infall of interstellar gas
and dust, which suggest that chondrules—enigmatic
millimeter-sized igneous globules abundant in chondritic
meteorites—were produced when infalling aggregations of
presolar dust were so heated by aerodynamic drag that
they melted.

Other analyses included study of a unique rock type
from the lunar highlands and an experimentally produced
artificial analog. It was concluded that the rock originated
in the lunar crust at a depth of at least ten kilometers and
probably was excavated and deposited in the lunar soil by
the same impact event that produced the crater Coperni-
cus.

Radio and Geoastronomy

Division investigations focus on understanding the struc-
ture, evolution, sources of energy, and ultimate fate of
radio-wave-emitting astronomical objects distributed
throughout the universe. Group members are also pioneer-
ing in the use of radio astronomy techniques to measure
contemporary drift among the continents; others are
involved in the development of atomic clocks, tests of the
theory of general relativity, and formulation of uses for
long tethers in space.

Studies in very long baseline interferometry (VLBI) cen-
tered on quasars and other compact extragalactic radio
sources and on molecular maser sources associated with
star-forming regions of the interstellar medium. VLBI
observations of these water-maser sources, which are very
powerful radio-wave emitters, will help determine the size
of our galaxy. By tracking the gas flows, which envelop

?

In November 1984, Smithsonian astronomers discovered an
unusual example of the rare gravitational lens phenomenon in
which a relatively nearby galaxy in the Constellation Pegasus is
apparently enhancing the image of a much more distant quasar
directly behind it. Here, the lens system, designated 2237 +0305,
has been computer-contoured at the center of the image to
increase the dynamic range of brightness intensity.

newly formed stars and are made luminous by intense
radio emission from trace quantities of water vapor, it is
possible to determine the distance to the young objects.
These experiments also contribute to understanding the
motions of materials surrounding heavily obscured, mas-
sive, newborn stars, which are about fifty times more mas-
sive than the Sun.

A new generation of satellite-borne masers is under
development for space VLBI and for subnanosecond
worldwide timing. The present stability of these clocks is
in the 10° region, that is, equivalent to the loss of one sec-
ond in too million years. Research on operating masers at
temperatures near absolute zero (1.4 K) suggests the stabil-
ity could improve to the equivalent of one second loss in a
billion years.

Construction also began on a long baseline optical
astrometric interferometer, which is designed to make
optical measurements with a precision comparable to
those obtained by radio VLBI.

Using radio tracking of the Pioneer Venus Orbiter, SAO
scientists are mapping small irregularities in the gravita-
tional potential of Venus for comparison to the topogra-
phy in a determination of the subsurface structure of the
planet. Since Earth resembles Venus more than any other

87
planet, an understanding of the near-surface structure of
Venus helps both to test and to develop theories describing
such important terrestrial phenomena as earthquakes, vol-
canoes, and the formation of mineral deposits.

Solar and Stellar Physics

SAO’s leadership in solar and stellar research is evidenced
by the biannual workshops entitled “Cool Stars, Stellar
Systems, and the Sun,” which originated at the observatory
and are now being scheduled at other institutions across
the country. The proceedings of these workshops have
become standard references for researchers in this field.

Investigations of stellar winds and mass loss, together
with analagous studies of the Sun, form a major compo-
nent of research. Work on stellar processes greatly benefits
from further understanding of the solar wind, since only
for the Sun can detailed comparisons of theory and obser-
vation be made. Other divisional endeavors include basic
research on solar and stellar atmospheric modeling and on
interpretation of observed spectra; computation of new
models for solar active regions and for sunspots, based on
data from the 1973 NASA Skylab experiment; and devel-
opment of a new computer program to analyze the out-
flow of mass from giant stars observed to be losing mass
about ten million times faster than our Sun. Ultraviolet
observations carried out with the International Ultraviolet
Explorer Satellite contribute to twelve different programs.

Division members also continue to develop new instru-
mentation and spectroscopic diagnostic techniques for
determination of the physical processes responsible for
producing the solar wind. SAO’s ultraviolet coronal spec-
trometer, which has already provided the first measure-
ments of temperature and outflow velocity in the
solar-wind source region, is now being prepared for SPAR-
TAN Mission 201, planned for deployment and retrieval
by the Space Shuttle in 1986.

The division was awarded a contract to help define an
ultraviolet coronal spectrometer for the European Space
Agency’s Solar Heliospheric Observatory. Measurement of
the solar-wind source region with this instrument should
provide a link between traditional observations of the
solar corona and in situ measurements of the solar wind at
far distances from the Sun. SAO hopes to provide the spec-
trometer through NASA's participation in the International
Solar-Terrestrial Physics Program.

88

Theoretical Astrophysics

Research on a diverse range of astrophysical phenomena
was carried out, with studies often applied to the support
and interpretation of observational data. Theoretical
Astrophysics Division members frequently collaborate
with scientists in other divisions and at other institutions
in their research as well as contribute significantly to edu-
cational programs. Two studies of more than usual interest
are described here.

Of the many known types of elementary particles, only
a few are ordinarily found on Earth, or even in most
present-day astronomical objects. However, under the
extreme conditions believed to exist in the center of qua-
sars and active galactic nuclei, the positron—the antiparti-
cle of the electron—may be almost as common as the
electron itself. These positrons are created, in pairs with
electrons, from the plentiful sources of high energy found
in these objects. The resulting gas made up of electrons
and positrons, called a pair plasma, could have remark-
able properties. In fact, if pair plasmas do exist in the cen-
tral regions of quasars and active galactic nuclei, their very
presence might either prove—or rule out—various current
theories about these central regions, including the premise
that massive black holes are the ultimate energy sources.
At SAO, pair plasmas have been studied as the possible
origin of the high-energy radiation streaming out of qua-
sars and active galactic nuclei. So far, the results are
encouraging, for the theoretically predicted emission from
pair plasmas corresponds closely to the type actually |
observed from these objects.

Young, hot stars are known to be rapidly losing material _
through high-velocity “winds” driven from their surfaces
by radiation pressure. Simple theories of this phenomenon |
seem to be in good agreement with most observations, but |
not all. For example, observations by the Einstein Observ-
atory have shown that hot stars emit X-rays, indicating an
even hotter wind than predicted. One modified theory
ascribes the super-hot winds to an instability in the radia-
tion driving mechanism, which causes different parts of
the wind to collide with one another and to heat up to
X-ray-emitting temperatures. However, the question of
instabilities has been very controversial, since some pre-
vious theoretical calculations suggested that the winds are
actually stable. In a new, comprehensive analysis by SAO
scientists, the conflicting results have been resolved, and
the existence of strong instabilities has been firmly estab-
lished. While further work will be required to verify the
picture in detail, it now seems reasonable that the X-ray
observations can be completely explained by wind instabil-
ities.
Smithsonian Environmental
Research Center

Basic scientific research aimed at understanding the pro-
cesses occurring in the environment and their influence on
biological systems and organisms is the principal activity
of the Smithsonian Environmental Research Center
(SERC). This research is long-term and emphasizes both
laboratory and field-oriented studies in three major areas:
Regulatory Biology, Environmental Biology, and Radio-
carbon Dating.

SERC has two principal facilities: 50,o00-square-foot
laboratory at Rockville, Maryland, and 2,600 acres of
land with a small laboratory and some support buildings
at Edgewater, Maryland. The Edgewater property consti-
tutes a unique estuarine research opportunity, comprising
nearly one-third of the watershed surrounding the Rhode
River Estuary, a subestuary of the Chesapeake Bay located
a few miles south of Annapolis, Maryland. These two
facilities are separated geographically by forty-five miles.

SERC also maintains an educational program that
includes graduate students, postdoctoral fellows, under-
graduate work/learn students, and public educational
activities. The public education aspects emphasize teacher-
and docent-led tours and activities. Docents guide adult
and family groups on a two-mile Discovery Trail through
outdoor research areas. A pamphlet keyed to signs on the
Discovery Trail makes the walk self-guiding for visitors
who are not on a scheduled tour. A recently developed
soundtrack slide show describes the research at both Rock-
ville and Edgewater.

Twenty-seven regular scientific seminars were held at
both Edgewater and Rockville in fiscal year 1985. This is
an ongoing educational activity of SERC, serving to
inform the interested scientific public about SERC
research activities as well as to inform SERC staff about
the work of colleagues in universities and other govern-
mental laboratories. In addition, four scientific workshops
were held at Edgewater with approximately forty partici-
pants on the topics watershed research, soil science,
below-ground metabolism in salt marshes, and landscape
ecology.

Research is done by staff scientists who represent a
diverse number of disciplines, including biology, chemis-
try, physics, mathematics, and engineering, in the frame-
work of two divisions: Regulatory Biology and
Environmental Biology.

Activities at Rockville
Regulatory Biology

Regulatory biology studies organisms at levels ranging
from molecules to whole organisms. Research emphasis is
on the mechanism and processes by which growth and
development are affected by environmental factors, such
as the duration, intensity, and color of sunlight; tempera-
ture; humidity; and carbon dioxide levels. Data are
obtained about the biology, physics, and chemistry of the
processes occurring within cells, primarily by laboratory
experiments.

Plants require light from the environment to carry out
photosynthesis and produce food. The photosynthetic
organelles of green plants, the chloroplasts, are composed
of membrane and non-membrane phases. The protein syn-
thesis machinery of chloroplasts, chloroplast ribosomes,
is distributed between both phases. The membrane-
associated chloroplast ribosomes are thought to function
to add proteins to the membranes, as part of the process of
membrane growth. An important constituent of the chlo-
roplast membranes is a core complex (CC J). It consists of
protein, chlorophyll, carotenoids, possibly galactolipids,
and ions of the metals iron and copper. It contains the
reaction center for Photosystem I of the photosynthetic
electron transport chain.

The biosynthesis of the polypeptides of core complex I
and its structure are being studied in developing leaves of
spinach, in order to understand how these polypeptides
are formed and added to the photosynthetic membranes.
Although CC I was originally thought to contain a single
polypeptide, work this year has shown that CC I consists
of three polypeptides of approximately 64,000, 56,000 and
10,000 Daltons (molecular weight). The 64,000 and
56,000 Dalton components may be the products of two
closely spaced, distinct, but homologous genes which are
present in chloroplast deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA).

In spinach chloroplasts the 64,000 and 56,000 Dalton
CC I components appear to be synthesized in association
with chloroplast membranes. Seventy-five percent of the
messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA) for these polypeptides
was bound to the chloroplast membranes. This mRNA
was in functional polyribosomes since the membranes syn-
thesized these components in the absence of protein syn-
thesis initiation. Essentially all of the newly synthesized
CC I polypeptides remained associated with the mem-
branes. These results suggest that core complex I polypep-
tides are synthesized on the membranes, i.e., at the
subchloroplast site where they will become localized, and

89
that synthesis of polypeptides in association with mem-
branes is part of the mechanism of chloroplast membrane
growth.

In red algae and cyanobacteria the antennae for light
harvesting phycobilisomes and their association with the
photosystems of photosynthesis are being studied. Analy-
sis of isolated photosystem II-phycobilisome particles
showed that red algae have several protein components in
the core complex of photosystem II. Removal of phycobili-
proteins resulted in purification of a photosynthetically
active photosystem II protein complex which was highly
enriched in peptides with molecular weights of 50,000 and
46,000 daltons. These appear to correspond to peptides
with similar characteristics in green plants and strongly
suggest that photosystem II core proteins have been con-
served in these two plant groups which have widely diver-
gent structural characteristics.

From a comparison of the phycobilisome structure of
two cyanobacteria it was found that two variations of
chromatic adaptation operate in these species, which are
otherwise very similar. In Tolypothrix, capable of com-
plete chromatic adaptation, the phycobilisome size
remained constant irrespective of light quality. In green
light, phycoerythrin, which is capable of absorbing in this
wavelength, accounted for one-third of the phycobilipro-
tein content. However, in red light there was a 1 for 1 sub-
stitution with phycocyanin (absorbing red light) for
phycoerythrin. In contrast, in Nostoc which partially
adapts chromatically the decrease in phycoerythrin in red
light was accompanied by a decrease in phycobilisome size
and appears to have a different substitution ratio of pig-
ments. Thus even in simple prokaryotic organisms
response to light quality is not identical, and not as simple
as had been previously concluded.

Light absorbed by the plant pigment phytochrome can
regulate many different plant processes. Efforts to learn
how this molecule operates in the plant cell have focussed
on a limited portion of the protein that is reversibly con-
verted between an inactive and active form by red and far-
red light.

In recent years it has been determined that exposure of
phytochrome to light causes changes in the shape of the
protein as well as the disposition of both charged groups
and hydrophobic groups. This year it has been determined
that the amino acid cysteine is located near where these
changes occur and that a sulfhydryl side chain is highly
reactive. In fact it is so reactive that unusual levels of
reducing agents must be incorporated in purification pro-
tocols to protect the sulfhydryl side chain while isolating
phytochrome from other cell components. By utilizing

99

reagents that bind specifically to sulfhydryl groups it has
been determined that exposure of phytochrome to red light
converts one or two of these groups from a relatively unre-
active state to a highly reactive one, probably by becoming
more exposed to the surface of the protein. If a sulfhydryl-
specific reagent is added to the active form of the protein it
will react with these cysteines resulting in significant
changes in the properties of the protein.

If a sulfhdryl reagent is added, this chemically tagged
protein appears to be normal in most of its properties
except for the fact that the inactive and active forms seem
to have the same conformation. The identification of this
property of phytochrome is an important step toward
determining the molecular nature of the light activation of
phytochrome.

Salicylic acid can induce flowering in plants of the
aquatic duckweed, Lemna. By using radiocarbon-labeled
salicylic acid the uptake into Lemna has been studied. The
dissociation constant (pKa) of salicylic acid is about 2.8
and consequently its uptake is greatly promoted by hydro-
gen ion concentrations (pH) values of 4.5 and lower. Nev-
ertheless, at pH 8 significant uptake occurs and it is
effective in inducing flowering. Under a nitrogen atmo-
sphere uptake of labeled salicyclic acid is not affected by
pH less than 5 but is inhibited fifty percent by pH greater
than 5. Uptake is not affected by potassium ionophores,
nigericin, and valinomycin, but is strongly inhibited by an
inhibitor of oxidative phosphorylation, CCCP (carbonyl
cyanide m-chlorophenyl hydrazone). Thus, uptake of sali-
cylic acid is an active process at pH values greater than 5
and the requirement for oxidative phosphorylation may
explain the stimulating effects of phosphate on flowering
found previously.

In most monocarpic plants the onset of flowering leads
to rapid senescence, but in Lemna a flowering frond pro-
duces as many, if not slightly more, daughter fronds as
does a vegetative frond. If fronds are cut in half, the distal
half, which lacks any meristems, undergoes rapid senes-
cence. The senescence of distal halves is delayed by cyto-
kinin and speeded up by abscisic acid. Both distal halves
and intact fronds senesce more rapidly as daylength is
increased from 1 hour to continuous light. The role of light
on senescence is not known.

Plant cells grow as a result of the internal pressure of the
cell contents. External stimuli such as light can bring
about dramatic increases (fifty percent) in the extension
rate of fungal cells but it is not known if growth occurs
because of increases in internal pressure or a change in the
cell wall properties caused by light. In collaborative exper-
iments with Dr. Ken Ortega, University of Colorado, and
Dr. Dan Cosgrove, Pennsylvania State University, the tur-
gor pressure during constant, light-adapted growth of
large single-celled sporangiophores of the fungus Phyco-
myces grown in Rockville and Denver were measured. A
pressure probe was used in which a microcapillary was
inserted directly into the vacuole and values of the pressure
obtained while the cells were growing. Surprisingly, the
turgor pressure for Rockville sporangiophores was found
to be 4.0 + 0.7 bars (20 measurements) while those grown
in Denver had a value of 5.0 + 1.4 bars (10 measure-
ments). This difference may be due to differences in meth-
odology for growing the cells in the two laboratories.

Environmental Biology

Since August 1984 a high precision scanning radiometer
has collected data atop Mauna Loa, Hawaii. This radiom-
eter, developed and built at the Smithsonian, gathered
information on biologically harmful ultraviolet light and
tracked changes in ozone also. Eight narrow bands were
chosen that correspond to wavelengths measured at Rock-
ville, Maryland.

The extremely clear atmosphere at Mauna Loa allowed
measurements of ultraviolet energy in a narrow band (5
nanometers) centered around 290 nanometers. Although
the energy content was small it was significant because this
band degrades plastics and paints in the environment.
Ozone changes were accurately tracked and solar events
could be detected in these changes.

The visible spectrum divided into bands of 50 nanome-
ters had a strong seasonal trend in Rockville. However, at
Edgewater, on the Rhode River, a subestuary of the Chesa-
peake Bay, there was very little evidence of the same trend.
The Rockville trend had higher irradiance levels in the
winter months and lower irradiance levels in the summer
months. This difference in energy trends at the two loca-
tions is because Rockville has higher atmospheric turbid-
ity, probably due t@ poorer air quality. These trends were
evident only for data compared from the same solar eleva-
tion. However, the ultraviolet region which is modulated
by ozone, did not clearly show this trend. Ozone increased
from a winter minimum to a late spring or early summer
maximum. Thus more ultraviolet, at a given solar eleva-
tion, reached the surface in the winter months. Therefore,
with a decrease in ozone and atmospheric turbidity in win-
ter, far more energy should be received in the winter than
in the summer.

If far-red radiation is added to a background of white
light the stomatal aperture in the primary leaves of beans

(Phaseolus vulgaris) increased and the rate of photosynthe-
sis also increased. This increased photosynthesis appeared
to be directly responsible for the stomatal response. Exper-
iments simulating natural canopy shade indicated that
accounting only for radiation in the visible wavebands
(400-700 nm) can lead to major errors in estimating pho-
tosynthetic rate. Naturally occurring levels of far-red radi-
ation in canopy shade can enhance the photosynthetic rate
by a significant amount.

Large diurnal variations in the absolute carbon dioxide
concentration correlated highly with rainfall and carbon
uptake, photosynthesis, in the tropical forest on Barro
Colorado Island, Republic of Panama. Diurnal variations
were greatest during the wet season by a factor of two
compared with those during the dry season, i.e., 90 ppm
versus 45 ppm. The wet season carbon uptake was roughly
30 percent higher than the dry season uptake. The average
absolute carbon dioxide concentration over the first two
years of station operation was 356.1 ppm with an average
annual increase of 3.5 ppm. The diurnal variation during
the wet season, 90 ppm or 25 percent of the absolute con-
centration, indicated the great impact of the carbon uptake
of the tropical forest on the ambient carbon dioxide con-
centration.

A major difficulty in determining the relationship
between photosynthesis and leaf water stress has been the
determination of the two processes in the same tissue.
While photosynthesis can be measured non-destructively
and monitored through dynamic changes in environmental
parameters such as temperature, humidity, and sunlight,
the measurement of the leaf water status has been done by
removing a leaf, and includes destruction of tissue. During
the past year a system was developed in which both gas
exchange including carbon dioxide, water, and leaf water
potential were simultaneously measured. Leaf water
potential was changed by reducing the root temperature to
interfere with the uptake of water. This caused a reduction
in leaf water potential and photosynthesis.

When plants grown at low salinity were subjected to
increasing salinity, the light saturated rates of photosyn-
thesis, carboxylation efficiency, light harvesting efficiency,
and stomatal conductance all declined. At low salinity, sto-
matal conductance accounted for less than ro percent of
the inhibition of photosynthesis but this increased to over
50 percent in plants grown in salt concentrations 1.5 times
that of sea water.

When plants were slowly adapted to high salinity, accli-
mation could be seen as an increase in the light and CO,
saturated rates of photosynthesis and the carboxylation
efficiency as well as a decrease in stomatal inhibition of

oI
photosynthesis. These acclimations improved the capacity
of plants to fix carbon dioxide at higher salinity compared
with plants grown at low salinity but the cost was a
decrease in water use efficiency (the ratio of carbon diox-
ide assimilated to water lost).

Radiocarbon Dating

Dating of salt-marsh sediments from coastal Maine con-
tinues in order to provide a detailed chronology of crustal
down-warping. Results thus far from southwestern, cen-
tral, and northeastern regions indicate a land subsidence
rate ranging from 30 centimeters per century in the west to
nearly a meter in the northeast near Passamaquaddy Bay.

Prior investigations of glacial retreat in northwestern
New Jersey and northeastern Pennsylvania have suggested
an age of about 12,000 years for this event. Samples cored
from sediments of small lakes in New Jersey have consis-
tent ages of 18,500 to 18,000 years for ice retreat. These
dates require major rethinking of glacial history in the
Northeast.

Activities at Edgewater

Streamside Vegetational Buffers

Historically in the coastal plain of Maryland, while
uplands have been cultivated, deciduous hardwood forests
have been maintained on most lowlying areas adjacent to
streams. This was the direct result of the fact that these
areas were too wet to cultivate in the spring. Current
research at the Edgewater site is illustrating how fortuitous
this situation has been for the ecology of Chesapeake Bay
where excessive nutrient enrichment is a serious problem.
Nutrient concentration changes were measured in surface
runoff and shallow groundwater as they moved from crop-
lands through these riparian forests. Dramatic decreases
were observed, especially for nitrate, which is very impor-
tant to the ecology of Chesapeake Bay. High concentra-
tions of nitrate are released from croplands. This nitrate
does not bind to soils, is readily utilized by plants, and is
the nutrient most likely to cause detrimental effects in the
Bay. From surface runoff waters that had transited 50 m of
riparian forest, an estimated 4.1 tonnes of particulates, 11
kg of particulate organic-N, 0.83 kg of ammonium-N, 2.7
kg of nitrate-N and 3.0 kg of total particulate-P per ha of
riparian forest were removed during the study year. In
addition, an estimated removal of 45 kg per ha of nitrate-N

92

occurred in subsurface flow as it moved through the ripar-
ian zone.

Morning Glory Ecology

Ipomoea hederacea, a common weed in cultivated fields of
eastern North America, disappears quickly following
abandonment of fields. Manipulative experiments were
conducted during the first year after abandonment to
determine whether this disappearance was due to the
inability of these plants to compete with other weeds for
nitrogen. Various experimental plots were either kept free
of other competing plants, subjected to nitrogen fertiliza-
tion, or given both treatments. Results suggest that this
species is eliminated in old fields because it is a poor com-
petitor for nitrogen and that the main result of competi-
tion is reduction in below-ground biomass and reduced
seed production.

Separate Feeding Habitats for Male and Female Hooded
Warblers

Wilsonia citrina is acommon woodland bird which nests
in eastern North America. Males and females were found
to defend exclusive feeding territories in the Yucatan
Peninsula of Mexico. While the species was found to uti-
lize woody vegetation ranging from successional scrub to
tall evergreen forest, males were most abundant in closed-
canopy forest of moderate to tall stature, while females
were commonest in lower, more open vegetation. The pat-
tern of plumage variation in females suggests that those
with male-like melanistic plumage tend to locate their ter-
ritories in the kind of habitat occupied by males.

Nutrient Dynamics of Brackish Marshes

Tidal marshes on Chesapeake Bay have been shown to
remove particulate matter and associated nutrients from
flooding waters and to release dissolved nutrient fractions
to ebbing waters. A recent study addressed the mechanism
of nutrient processing in these marshes by measuring
chemical gradients in marsh soil waters along transects
from creek banks into the interior of the marshes. Rates of
hydrologic movement of these soil waters into the creeks
as seepage from the banks during low tide were also mea-
sured. Estimates of dissolved nutrient release rates due to
this bank seepage were found to be only 5 to 15 percent of
marsh dissolved nutrient release rates measured by other
methods. These results indicate that mechanisms for the
release of dissolved nutrients directly from the marsh sur-
face are more important than previously considered.

Microbial Activity in the Estuary

Bacteria and phytoplankton populations and metabolic
activity were measured along the channel of the Rhode
River. Phytoplankton comprised 80 percent of the total
microbial biomass and bacterial numbers ranged from less
than one million to 54 million per ml. Bacteria cell produc-
tion rates averaged about 1 million per hour per ml. These
data were compared with water quality data from the
same locations and positive correlations were found
between all measures of microbial activity and most nutri-
ent fractions in the water column.

Semilunar Reproductive Cycles in Killifish

Fundulus heteroclitus, an abundant minnow in shoreline
habitats of Chesapeake Bay, moves in and out of brackish
tidal marshes with the tides to feed on the marsh surface.
Lunar spawning rhythms are common in species of
shallow-water coastal fish and semilunar reproductive
cycles have been reported in a few cases. In the Chesa-
peake, however, weather factors affect water levels as
much as the sun and moon, resulting in low correlations
between tidal amplitude and predictions which are based
upon astronomical cycles. A study was therefore con-
ducted of the rhythmicity of reproductive activity of this
species to determine if semilunar cycles occur in the
absence of well-defined lunar tidal cycles. Both female and
male Fundulus heteroclitus were found to have distinct
semilunar cycles in their readiness to spawn, from May
through August, and these cycles were usually in phase
with the lunar cycle.

Smithsonian Office of
Educational Research

The original aim of the Smithsonian Office of Educational
Research (SOER), to pioneer research into the process by
which people learn outside the formal learning environ-
ment, was achieved in 1985. Consistent with the Institu-
tion’s policy that once experimental programs have
achieved success they are best administered through estab-
lished offices, SOER was abolished September 30, 1985,
and its employees were assigned to other educational and
research support activities. In carrying out its objectives
before termination SOER initiated studies to examine how
people learn in a wide variety of social and physical con-
texts, particularly the role of the family in learning.

The Smithsonian Family Learning Project (SFLP) devel-
oped science activities for families to do together at home.
This program received enthusiastic response from tens of
thousands of families and unsolicited national publicity.
SFLP activities were available in the form of a poster-sized
wall calendar in 1985 and calendars for 1986 and 1987 will
be completed.

A three-year National Science Foundation (NSF) funded
study “The Role of the Family in the Promotion of Science
Literacy” was completed. This project encompassed six
studies which examined attitudes and behavior of family
members, with particular attention to educational interac-
tions. Results of the study indicate that families are
responsible for a great deal of the education of its mem-
bers. Therefore the family can provide an excellent foun-
dation on which to build new approaches to science
literacy in children and adults.

Also completed was a one-year NSF-funded feasibility
study of a project entitled “The Community Science
Project.” This project was an effort to deal with growing
national concerns about the quality of science education,
exploring alternatives to a solely school-based model of
education. Results suggest that science education can be
improved by utilizing resources of the entire community.

Results of SOER studies concerning the dynamics of
behavior and learning through museum visitation and
families will continue to be useful to professionals in edu-
cation, exhibit design, and family services nationwide.
Findings were disseminated through publications, semi-
nars, and workshops for both professional and lay audi-
ences.

93
Smithsonian Tropical Research

Institute

Prior to 1960 tropical biology was a relatively obscure sub-
discipline in the field of biology. Beginning in the 1960s
and continuing at an ever increasing pace, insights derived
from experience in the tropics have revolutionized the bio-
logical sciences. Our understanding of the roles of compe-
tition, predation, coadaptation, behavior, genetics, sexual
selection, and the.impact of environmental stability and
perturbations on the evolution, ecology, and diversity of
tropical organisms has been instrumental in redefining
empirical and theoretical understanding in biology. The
Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute (STRI) has played
a decisive role in that development as a result of the
research of our twenty-six permanent staff and the visits
each year of about seventy students and more than four
hundred other scientists.

STRI performs four major functions as the nation’s lead-
ing international center for the advancement of basic
research in tropical biology. Its professional staff carries
out fundamental research on the ecology, evolution, and
behavior of tropical plants and animals, including man-
kind; it provides major facilities for the international scien-
tific community to study both terrestrial and marine
tropical biology; it is a center deeply committed to envi-
ronmental education and to conservation of tropical eco-
systems; and it has the responsibility to protect and
manage the Barro Colorado Nature Monument, under the
terms of the Western Hemisphere Convention of 1940 on
Nature Protection and Wildlife Preservation.

STRI’s success in attaining these goals is underscored by
two recent events that will benefit the Institution for many
years into the future: the Government of Panama extend-
ing to STRI the prerogatives and benefits that correspond
to status as an International Mission operating in Panama,
and receipt of a $4 million grant from the Earl Silas Tupper
Foundation. This grant will allow construction of a new
research center at the site of our administrative headquar-
ters and modern library. Consolidation of our terrestrial
research programs will be aided, as will our ability to host
conferences and symposia. The STRI Master Plan initiated
this past year envisions other timely construction projects
to improve STRI’s ability to serve as a modern center for
tropical biology now and in the future.

A Pioneering Tree Census

The biotic diversity of tropical forests is legendary, yet few
comprehensive studies of tropical tree diversity and popu-
lation dynamics have been undertaken. One such study on
Barro Colorado Island (BCI), directed by Drs. Stephen

94

Hubbell and Robin Foster, seeks to gain an understanding
of the structure and dynamics of a 5o-hectare tract that has
remained intact since the time of the Spanish explorers.

The 240,000 plants censused five years ago were again
censused during 1985 with the help of fifty volunteers from
Earthwatch. In addition to remeasuring tagged plants, all
new saplings were mapped, measured, and identified.
Hubbell and Foster have found, for example, that the can-
opy changes often and the life span of most trees appears
to be shorter than previously thought. The tree census
project is clearly the most extensive and definitive assault
to date on the mystery of tropical tree species diversity,
assuring that the results will stand for many years.

Paleoecological research in the Hubbell-Foster plot on
BCI has provided radiocarbon determinations for the age
of the old forest and phytolith evidence for the nature of its
prehistoric modification. Carbon-14 dates from archaeo-
logical excavations indicate that the forest is at least 400 to
500 years old. Phytolith studies indicate that it was not
under a slash and burn agricultural regime, but it was par-
tially cleared by prehistoric populations in areas that coin-
cided with the location of their settlements.

Bats and Figs

Ten years ago, Dr. Charles Handley, of the National
Museum of Natural History, initiated a study of bat popu-
lations through one generation. That study was completed
in 1985 after 858 nights of mist-netting and 48,375 captures
of bats. A total of 56 species of bats were recorded from
BCI during the study. Artibeus jamaicensis made up about
two-thirds of the catch and was, thus, the focal species for
the study. Handley has shown that the foraging range of
Artibeus is somewhat larger than the 3,600 acres of BCI,
adult female annual survival rates are about 60 percent,
and potential longevity is as much as ro years.

Artibeus feed primarily on figs, so more than 600 fig
trees covering over approximately one-third of the island
were mapped. Handley found that by keeping track of
fruit conditions on numerous fig trees he could follow the
activities of bats with considerable precision. Knowledge
of the bat-fig relationship has stimulated numerous ques-
tions about fig systematics, ecology, and evolution.

Iguana Biology and Management

Studies of the green iguana (Iguana iguana) moved for-
ward on several fronts. Dr. Brian Bock has shown that
Legislators from the National Assembly of Panama are shown during a visit to the Barro Colorado Island forest preserve in March 1985.
From left to right are Secretary General Erasmo Pinilla, Hon. Raul Montenegro, Mr. Alfredo Ocana, Hon. Tomas Guerra, and Hon.
Vianor Serracin. (Photograph by R. Brosnahan)

iguanas around Gatun Lake face a severe problem in scar-
city of nest sites. Female iguanas from this population
gather annually at the available sites to nest in aggrega-
tions, and the hatchling iguanas emerge several months
later to rapidly disperse away from these sites.

An intensive mark-recapture effort of female iguanas
over five nesting seasons produced evidence of strong nest-
ing site fidelity. However, some females also explored and
occasionally nested singly in new sites that became avail-
able to them during this study. Thus, the site fidelity dem-
onstrated was not absolute, although most female iguanas
returned to the same nesting site year after year.

Electrophoretic analysis of blood and tissue samples
obtained from female iguanas captured at several nesting

sites revealed significant allele frequency differences
among these iguanas at one of the two polymorphic loci
inspected. Apparently, female iguanas associated with the
most isolated nesting aggregation may belong to a distinct
local population, somewhat reproductively isolated from
the populations at two other nesting sites. The nesting site
fidelity exhibited by female iguanas and the movement
patterns documented for both female iguanas and dispers-
ing hatchlings corroborate this electrophoretic evidence.
Limited dispersal and nesting site fidelity may restrict gene
flow between local demes.

Scarcity of nest sites, high juvenile mortality, and rapid
destruction of forest, the primary habitat of iguanas,
threaten iguana survival and an important traditional

95
source of protein for people throughout much of Latin
America. Through the Iguana Management Project, Dr.
Dagmar Werner and associates constructed three large
cages in which adult females laid eggs in artificial nests.
Eggs were then incubated in seminatural incubators. The
1,500 hatchlings derived from the eggs of over 50 females
led to discovery that the incubation period not only
depends on temperature, but also on substrate humidity
and egg arrangement. Furthermore, incubation conditions
as well as genetic factors influence hatchling weight and
body proportions, providing a basis for iguana manage-
ment as a food source. Support for this project is derived
from the W. Alton Jones Foundation and the James
Smithson Society.

Impact of African Honeybee

Several years ago Dr. David Roubik initiated studies of
bees in an effort to track the arrival of African honey bees
in Panama as well as to assess their impact on native bees
and plants. An outgrowth of that work has been develop-
ment of protocols to adjust the African bee when it comes
into conflict with human society throughout Central
America. Other results of this work and collaborative
efforts with Drs. Henk Wolda and James Ackerman
include demonstration that tropical bee population
dynamics were remarkably consistent in both wet and dry
years. A six-year study by Roubik at three forest sites
shows that several euglossine bees studied have, by far, the
most stable known insect populations on earth. This pop-
ulation stability in native bee populations should make it
possible to detect even subtle impacts of African honeybees
on the native fauna. An experimental study completed in
Soberania National Park provided evidence that at the low
colony density expected for African bees in Neotropical
forests, ten years may be required to alter bee populations.
Renewed interest in African honeybees has been sparked in
North America with discovery of a feral colony in Califor-
nia, transported there by a ship.

Insect Diversity

The vast diversity of tropical insects is at the center of
numerous STRI research programs. For most groups many
species have not yet been collected, identified, and named.
Even for the best-known groups, such as butterflies,
detailed life history studies that connect the various life
stages (larva, pupa, adult) have not been completed. Dr.

96

Annette Aiello continues her studies of immature insects
and their behavior. Her efforts have greatly expanded
knowledge on the larva, pupa, and host plants for many
insects.

Animal Behavior

Animal behavior is the focus of many research projects at
STRI and three books on animal behavior were published
by scientists associated with STRI during 1985. In Commu-
nication and Noncommunication by Cephalopods, Dr.
Martin Moynihan summarizes current knowledge of the
communication and related systems of octopuses, squids,
and their allies, and assesses the comparative and theoreti-
cal implication of available data. In The Tungara Frog: A
Study in Sexual Selection and Communication, Dr.
Michael Ryan, a former STRI predoctoral fellow, demon-
strates the interplay of sexual and natural selection. Social
Evolution by Robert Trivers, a Regent Fellow at STRI in
1981, provides “a stimulating tour of the most important
controversies” in the field of sociobiology.

Plant Physiology

Increased understanding of the environmental variability
experienced by plants and animals has stimulated several
studies of the means used by plants to deal with drought
stress. Measurements of leaf loss and leaf water potentials
for ten species of shrubs and saplings of canopy trees show
interspecific variation in phenology and water relations.
Only species with deep tap roots (Hirtella triandra and
Prioria copaifera) are able to produce and expand new
leaves during the dry season. Shallow-rooted species
develop lower water potentials, indicating greater water
stress. In Hybanthus prunifolius this appears to be partly
alleviated by leaf abscission during the dry season. Psycho-
tria horizontalis, in contrast, postpones leaf drop until the
onset of the rains when its green, fallen leaves root in
damp litter. Thus, new plants are produced following leaf
abscission that favors vegetative propagation.

Egbert Leigh has recently analyzed data on tree distribu-
tions over small islands in Gatun Lake which have been
continuously forested since the islands were isolated from
the nearby mainland early this century. Tree diversity on
these islands has declined rapidly, but tree species compo-
sition on those islands is remarkably similar. It appears
that relatively few species are particulary suited, perhaps
physiologically, to conditions on these islands.
Perturbation in Marine Ecosystems

Just as we discovered unpredictable fluctuations in tropical
terrestrial ecosystems, so marine ecosystems also demon-
strate a wide range of aperiodic disturbances. Two exam-
ples under study by STRI staff are excellent examples of
the importance of long-term research in tropical biology.
Nancy Knowlton is examining the recovery of the reefs of
Jamaica following extensive damage caused by Hurricane
Allen in 1980. A recensus of individually marked colonies
indicated that the once-dominant coral Acropora cervi-
cornis continues to decline, largely due to predators which
are now more abundant than before the storm. Appar-
ently, community composition of these reefs may be per-
manently altered by a single disturbance event. Drs. Peter
Glynn and Robert Richmond documented an apparent
local extinction of Pocillopora damicornis in the Galapa-
gos due to a particularly strong upwelling of cold water
this year. P. damicornis had been the most abundant coral
species in this area, and it will be important to exploit the
opportunity to follow the reestablishment or change in this
well-isolated population.

Harilaos Lessios has continued his studies of the evolu-
tionary and ecological consequences of the mass mortality
that devastated populations of the sea urchin, Diadema
antillarum, throughout the Caribbean. He has found that
survival of juvenile sea urchins is very low, and that popu-
lations remain at low levels. The absence of Diadema does
not appear to have affected other species of sea urchins
(potential competitors), but it has had an effect on the sur-
vivorship of juvenile coral colonies. Where Diadema is
absent but other sea urchins are present, small coral colo-
nies flourish. Where Diadema was added experimentally,
survivorship of colonies decreased, possibly because of the
grazing action of this species. More interesting, in reefs
where all the species of sea urchins have been removed, the
juvenile corals are doing extremely poorly, because they
are outcompeted by algae, which are normally kept at
lower levels by the sea urchins. Lessios has also found that
despite the severe reduction in population size, genetic
variability of Diadema has stayed at its premortality levels,
suggesting that the potential exists for a recovery of the
species. However, if the populations stay low for many
years, it is possible that their genetic structure will be
affected.

Biology of Marine Crustacea

About thirty-five species of fiddler crabs (Uca) in Tropical

America court from and defend burrows to which females
come for mating and breeding. Males court by waving
their single enlarged claw in a species-specific pattern and
tempo. Males of three small species often construct arch-
ing pillars at burrow entrances, and these were thought to
afford aggregated males more time to court without
aggressive interference from neighbors. Field research by
Dr. John Christy on the competitive and courtship behav-
ior of male Uca beebi, a pillar building species, indicates
this explanation is not correct. Instead, pillars appear to
be visual markers that guide receptive females to a burrow
entrance after a courting male has disappeared from the
surface during the final stages of the courtship sequence.
Pillars probably are icons of the visual image presented to
females when a male raises its large claw revealing its dark
ventral surface just before entering his burrow.

Population Biology of Clonal Animals

Clonal organisms are plants and animals that propagate
primarily by asexual reproduction. The principal organ-
isms that build coral reefs are clonal, including algae and
corals. Dr. Jeremy Jackson and his colleagues are studying
the population dynamics of clonal animals (corals and
bryozoans) and the factors that affect their distributions
using sequences of photographs taken every few days on
the same reefs. They have shown that competition for
space is as important as predation in structuring reef com-
munities, and that very low levels of larval recruitment
decrease the ability of clonal animals to respond quickly to
environmental changes such as the recent mass mortality
of Diadema. Another important finding is that the sexually
produced larvae of most clonal animals do not disperse far
from their parents. This result violates most theoretical
models for the evolution of sex as an individual adaptation
which presume widespread dispersal of the sexual stage.

Paleohistory in Panama

Richard Cooke, Dolores Piperno, and Paul Colinvaux
recently cored three highland lakes in Veraguas Province to
obtain fossil pollens and phytoliths for paleoecological
reconstruction. A date of 10,070 years before present was
obtained for one (La Yeguada), making it one of the oldest
yet known in the humid tropics. Pollen and phytolith stud-
ies of these deposits should provide a long and detailed his-
tory of human land usage, vegetation, and climate.

97
AF,

‘ten

e

Ae

Ra
é

Hedgerows of macroalgae mark the territorial boundaries of sur-
geon fish Acanthuius lineatus in Morea, French Polynesia.

Educational Programs

To consolidate our programs, the Office of Educational
Coordinator and the Office of Conservation and Environ-
mental Education are being merged into a new Office of
Educational Programs (OEP). Mrs. Georgina de Alba will
be head of this office and Mr. Jorge Ventocilla will serve as
environmental specialist. The primary goals of this reor-
ganized office will be: (1) to administer all STRI fellowship
and assistantship programs; (2) to communicate informa-
tion produced from STRI-sponsored research to nonscien-
tific audiences; and (3) to increase appreciation of tropical
fauna, flora, and cultures and promote their conservation.

Several STRI books for the lay public were published.
One of these was Guia de los Arboles Comunes del Parque
Nacional Soberania by George Angehr, Phyllis Coley, and
Andrea Worthington, a guide to the most common trees of
Soberania National Park, an area with the most accessible
lowland forest in northern Latin America. The manuscript
was prepared by the authors while they were graduate stu-
dents doing research on Barro Colorado Island.

Another book of general interest published with SFRI
support and including papers by several STRI authors was
Agonia de la Naturaleza, edited by Stanley Heckadon, a
STRI research associate and Jaime Espinosa, from the Ins-
tituto de Investigacion Agropecuaria de Panama. The
book is in Spanish and includes a series of essays pertain-
ing to the natural environment and the hidden costs of eco-

98

nomic development without environmental
considerations.

Outreach

The Isthmus of Panama with access to two oceans pro-
vides excellent opportunities for the study of marine ecol-
ogy. From February 25 through April 5, STRI and the
University of Panama’s Center for Marine Sciences and
Limnology gave the first intensive graduate field course in
Marine Ecology offered at the University of Panama. Nine
Panamanian students participated, and a grant from the
Tinker Foundation made possible the participation of five
invited students from Venezuela, Ecuador, Costa Rica,
Colombia, and Mexico. The course included lecture and
laboratory sessions led by scientists from both sponsoring
institutions, and field trips to sites on both the Atlantic
and Pacific coasts of the Isthmus.

From August 4 to August to, STRI and Panama’s Minis-
try of Education organized a seminar to introduce issues of
environmental education and conservation of tropical eco-
systems to Panamanian high school students. Thirty-three
high school students and eight professors attended lectures
and took part in projects at one terrestrial and one marine
site. Supported from the Smithsonian Educational Out-
reach Program, this course was a first in Panama and will
hopefully serve as a model for future seminars.

To educate the general public about the value of forests
and the effects of deforestation, STRI’s Office of Conser-
vation and RENARE produced a poster entitled “We are
losing our forests . . . we are losing more than just trees.”
Financed by the Smithsonian’s Women’s Committee, the
poster has been widely distributed throughout Panama
and other countries in the region.

As part of STRI’s outreach program directed to the com-
munity of the host country, a fifth SITES exhibition in
Panama entitled Marine Mammals of the World was pre-
sented at the Museum of the National Bank jointly with
the Department of Marine Resources of the Government
of Panama. All exhibition materials were translated into
Spanish.

Fellowship and assistantship programs at various aca-
demic levels funded by the Smithsonian, the Exxon Corpo- |
ration, and private donors supported more than sixty |
young men and women at STRI conducting individual |
research or participating in ongoing research projects at
various STRI facilities. A grant from the Jessie Smith
Noyes Foundation made this year will fund a new fellow-
ship program for Latin American doctoral candidates.

Other Activities

STRI is participating together with the International Foun-
dation, World Wildlife Fund, CATIE, and the Association
of Kuna Employees in the second year of a wildlands man-
agement project of the western sector of the Kuna Indian
reservation. Jorge Ventocilla, from the Office of Educa-
tional Programs, is technical coordinator for this project
which includes natural resource management, scientific

_ investigation, and environmental education.

Two uninhabited and virtually undisturbed Pacific
islands (Gamez and Bolanos) which lie ten miles off the
Pacific Coast of Panama, have been donated to STRI
through the Nature Conservancy’s International Program.
A gift of Mrs. Jean Niemeier of Poulsbo, Washington, in
honor of her late husband Edward A. “Ed” Niemeier,
these islands are forested and the larger one contains
archaeological sites with pottery remnants dating AD 1200
to 1300.

Staff Changes and Appointments

Peter Glynn resigned after eighteen years of very produc-
tive research in the field of coral reef biology to join the
University of Miami’s marine laboratory. Robert Dressler
left Panama in June of this year to accept a part-time posi-
tion at the University of Gainesville in Florida. Dressler
will continue to work in Panama and other tropical areas
to advance his studies.of orchid biology.

Mr. Pedro Acosta retired as chief of the Game Warden
force at Barro Colorado Nature Monument. Warden Ale-
jandro Hernandez was appointed as his replacement.
Other staff changes included the departure of Drs. Gene
Montgomery and Frank Morris to pursue other interests
and the retirement of Patrocinio Esturain after nineteen
years of service as a cook on BCI.

With respect to SI’s branch library at STRI, Sylvia
Churgin joined us in Panama as branch librarian and
Roberto Sarmiento accepted the position as reference
librarian. Among their first tasks was the development of
improved communication. On-line data base searching
through DIALOG was initiated as the only library in Pan-
ama to have such capabilities. An 800-Panafax is the latest
instrument for transmitting facsimile copies to improve
communication with Washington, D.C.

Photographer Richard Brosnahan was assigned to duty
at STRI during the past year by the Office of Printing and
Photographic Services.

Finally, the Smithsonian Office of Design and Construc-
tion has employed Fernando Pascal, an engineer, to be sta-
tioned at STRI.

Distinguished Visitors

Recently appointed Secretary Robert McC. Adams visited
STRI in January of this year with the purpose of obtaining
firsthand information about this “off the Mall” bureau.

STRI hosted three congressional delegations from the
United States this year: Congresswoman Barbara Mikulski
and Congressman Norman Shumway visited BCI as did a
group of staff representing the Committees on Public
Works and Transportation, Public Buildings and Grounds,
and House Administration; Congressman James Weaver
visited STRI during a survey of issues related to tropical
forestry; and Mike Lowry (chairman) and staff of the Sub-
committee on Panama Canal and Outer Continental Shelf
were briefed on STRI programs in Panama during a visit
to BCI.

In March, Honorable Legislator Raul Montenegro and
other legislators from the Panamanian National Assembly
were briefed on programs and plans by STRI director and
staff while spending a full day visiting BCI, the Pipeline
Road area in the “Parque Nacional Soberania” and the
Iguana Management Project site. The “Alternatives to
Destruction” projects were discussed.

Dr. William Durham, a professor at Stanford University
and a MacArthur Fellow, spent eight months in Panama
initiating a long-term study of demography of the Kuna
Indians of the San Blas Islands. Other distinguished visi-
tors included members of the Board of Trustees of the W.
Alton Jones Foundation and Mrs. Jean Neimeier.

99
HISTORY*AN DART

Dean W. Anderson, Acting Assistant Secretary for History
and Art

IOI
Anacostia Neighborhood
Museum

The Anacostia Neighborhood Museum (ANM) opened its
doors in Washington’s far southeast Anacostia community
on September r5, 1967. In its eighteenth year of operation,
Anacostia—the Smithsonian Institution’s first satellite
museum—serves as a national resource for exhibition,
scholarly and applied research, historical documentation,
and interpretive and educational programs relating to
Afro-Americana. A national prototype that also serves as a
resource center for similar institutions around the nation,
ANM has pioneered new and creative ways of involving
nontraditional museum goers with the exciting worlds of
science, history, and the arts. The museum also serves as a
cultural stimulus for the people of Anacostia.

Offering a view of history that takes into account the
many positive contributions of Black Americans, the Ana-
costia Neighborhood Museum serves as a catalyst and
works cooperatively with other Smithsonian bureaus to
strengthen their own capabilities in identifying and docu-
menting those artifacts in their collections that relate to
Black history and culture. As a member of the African
American Museums Association (AAMA) and the Ameri-
can Association of Museums (AAM), the museum aggres-
sively works with other museums, research institutions,
and archival repositories throughout the United States and
abroad to enhance the awareness and appreciation of eth-
nohistory, ecomuseums, and century-old contributions of
Blacks to western civilization.

Research began this year for the fiscal year 1987 exhibi-
tion Climbing Jacob’s Ladder: The Development of the
Black Church, 1787-1900. Extensive contacts and visits
with individual congregations and major repositories of
church records from the Southern Georgia-Carolina Sea
Islands to Boston, Massachusetts, have been made and the
project, which was widely reported in Smithsonian Institu-
tion Research Report (No. 44, Winter 1985), already has
attracted enthusiastic interest among academicians and
museum scholars. This year the museum also successfully
negotiated with Tuskegee Institute (Alabama) to borrow
the visual records of photojournalist Prentice H. Polk
(1898-1985). An exhibition based on this material, P. H.
Polk: The Man and His Works, will highlight the extraor-
dinary talent and sensitivity of Polk as well as the strength
and quiet dignity of his subject: southern folk and folk-
ways.

Necessary replacement of the roof and expansion of the
museum’s Exhibits Laboratory began in 1985. The new
addition, which will house the education department and
provide safe, dry, and environmentally controlled exhibi-
tion areas and public space, was begun in May and, for the
first time, all Anacostia staff will be under one roof. In

102

Pictured at the ground-breaking ceremony on May 21, 1985, for
the Anacostia Neighborhood Museum’s new Fort Stanton facility
are (left to right) Robert Stanton of the Park Service; John Blake,
Anne King, and Addie Cook of the Anacostia Community; John
R. Kinard, director of the museum; and Smithsonian Secretary
Robert McCormick Adams.

addition, ample on-site parking and the pleasant sur-
roundings of a post—Civil War fort at this Fort Stanton
Park site will enable the museum’s education department
to expand its offerings and provide a broader range of
interpretive programs for diverse groups of museum goers
while attracting still new audiences.

Archives of American Art

Asa research bureau, the Archives of American Art takes
particular pride in its acquisitions program. Fiscal year
1985 was especially productive in collections of papers
whose value for scholarly enquiry is immediately apparent
and whose subject matter is more than usually varied.

The records of the Betty Parsons Gallery, of the critics
Clement Greenberg and Thomas Hess, and of the artists
Lee Krasner and John Graham provide rich information
on the rise of abstract expressionism to a position of domi-
nance in American art. Several hundred prints donated by
the movement’s unofficial photographer Hans Namuth
offers a useful visual supplement to this material. Postwar
modernism in architecture is represented in substantial
groups of Marcel Breuer and Charles Moore papers.

Perhaps the most remarkable of the year’s new collec-
tions records the history of the Institute of Contemporary
Arts, a Washington, D.C., organization devoted to bring-
ing the best in international culture to the nation’s capital.
Beginning in the late 1940s and extending well into the
19605, it sponsored more than a thousand exhibitions,
concerts, recitals, demonstrations, readings, and lectures.
Its founder and director Robert Richman conducted corre-
spondence with a vast array of celebrated men and women
in the arts, including W. H. Auden, Alexander Calder,
John Cheever, E. E. Cummings, T. S. Eliot, Walter Gro-
pius, André Malraux, Henry Moore, Dorothy Parker,
Wallace Stevens, Dylan Thomas, William Carlos Williams,
and Frank Lloyd Wright. Many of these letters have
revealing passages—Auden speaks of Eliot, Eliot speaks of
Ezra Pound, and Thomas speaks of borrowing money, but
the chief value of the collection lies in its documentation of
an ambitious experiment in an integrated approach to the
arts.

The Archives continued its special collecting projects in
Philadelphia and Rhode Island, where preliminary surveys
of art-related records in institutional and private hands
were completed and selective microfilming was begun. A
similar survey of papers in the South is now under way and
another covering the Chicago area opened in September.
The Texas State Project finished its work in fiscal year 1985
after six years of intensive collecting and filming in the
Southwest. All of these activities are supported by corpo-
rate or foundation grants.

Research pursued among the Archives’ resources dem-
onstrated the continued vigor of scholarship in American
art throughout the country. The Archives’ offices received
3,200 research visits from graduate students, curators, art
and cultural historians, and independent scholars.
Research conducted outside the Archives’ centers in Bos-
ton, New York, Detroit, San Francisco, Los Angeles, and

Sidney R. Yates, representative from Illinois, and Mrs. Yates are
shown with Muriel Kallis Newman, Archives of American Art
Trustee, and her husband, Albert, at the Archives’ thirtieth anni-
versary reception.

Washington, D. C., brought requests for 1,790 rolls of
microfilm. This year more than two hundred books, exhi-
bition catalogues, and articles based on Archives resources
were published.

Again, the Archives pays tribute to its Trustees and
members and to foundations across the country whose
generous contributions support the Archives’ collecting
programs, scholarly journal, and research of the collec-
tions. In particular, appreciation goes to A. Alfred Taub-
man and Mrs. Ahmet M. Ertegun who, with considerable
persistence and hard work, brought more than $60,000 to
the Archives. Others whose efforts raised more than
$200,000 include Mrs. Francis de Marneffe, Mrs. Dwight
M. Kendall, Miss Julienne Michel, Mrs. Dana M. Ray-
mond, Mrs. Elizabeth Rea, Mrs. John Rosenkrans, Jr.,
Mrs. Abbott Schlain, Mrs. Robert F. Shapiro, and Mrs.
Otto C. Spaeth.

Also, during fiscal year 1985, the Archives gratefully
received major grants of $50,000 from the Henry Luce
Foundation for national collecting projects, and $25,000
from the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation to begin concen-
trated work on its collection of works on paper.

Edgar P. Richardson, who founded the Archives of
American Art in 1954, died on March 27 of this year at age
82. A distinguished museum director and art historian, Dr.
Richardson devoted much of his career to the study of
American art well before it reached its present status of
academic respectability. He was a prolific scholar and an
active leader in the museum community. The Archives will
remain a living monument to his vision.

103
Center for Asian Art

Freer Gallery of Art and Arthur
M. Sackler Gallery

The Festival of India was the focus of programs for the
Center for Asian Art in 1985. This national celebration of
Indian culture and traditions included the Freer Gallery
exhibition The Arts of South Asia, which displayed paint-
ings and sculpture representing a complete survey of the
Freer collection of art from the Indian subcontinent. In the
show were two major recent acquisitions: a Rajput minia-
ture painting (ca. 1660) and a thirteenth through four-
teenth century bronze bull, Nandi, from south India.

The Eighth Freer Medal was awarded by Freer Visiting
Committee chairman Congressman Norman Y. Mineta to
Dr. Stella Kramrisch for her lifetime contributions to the
study of Indian art and culture. The award is “for distin-
guished contribution to the knowledge and understanding
of oriental civilizations as reflected in their arts.” The
impetus of the Festival of India also prompted the Freer to
reprint The Adventures of Rama by Milo C. Beach, assis-
tant director of the Arthur M. Sackler Gallery. A number
of copies were subsequently sent to India for distribution
to schools and research institutes through the Indian
Embassy.

Among the lectures in the thirty-second annual series
was “Christian Scenes in Thirteenth Century Islamic Met-
alware,” by Glenn D. Lowry, the new curator of Near
Eastern art. Other lectures included “The r6th-Century
Individualist Painter Hasegawa Tohaku,” by Michael R.
Cunningham, which was jointly sponsored with the
Embassy of Japan, and “Ethical Problems in Conservation
of Some Oriental Monuments,” delivered by Lawrence J.
Majewski, as the Rutherford J. Gettens Memorial Lecture.

The annual presentation in the John A. Pope Memorial
Lecture Series was “Some New Aspects of Japanese Porce-
lain of the Seventeenth Century,” by Hiroko Nishida of the
Nezu Institute of Fine Arts, Tokyo.

Japanese exhibitions in the past year included Japanese
Calligraphy, which demonstrated styles of writing devel-
oped during the eighth through the twelfth centuries; Japa-
nese Drawings, including works by Hokusai (1760-1849)
and Gyosai (1831-1889); The Glazed Ceramic Tradition of
Seto and Mino, illustrated by some rare early pieces as
well as by representative Momoyama period (1568-1615)
wares; Kyoto Ceramics, presenting works by major Kyoto
ceramic artists and workshops of the Edo period (1615—
1868); and Japanese Theater in the Edo Period, featuring
paintings on scrolls and a screen.

Chinese exhibitions included Ming Dynasty Calligraphy
and Painting, comparing the works of forty artists of the
Ming dynasty (1368-1644), and Painting and Calligraphy
from the Ch’ing Dynasty, displaying thirty masterpieces of

104

Among the notable donations to the Freer Gallery of Art this year
was this figure of Buddhist apsaras, Chinese jade, Sung dynasty,
907-1280, a gift of Hon. and Mrs. Hugh Scott.

the Ch’ing dynasty (1644-1911) as a sequel to the Ming
show.

Near Eastern exhibitions included From the Hand of
Mani: Iranian Paintings from the Freer, showing the devel-
opment of an idiom in manuscript painting between the
fourteenth and sixteenth centuries; and The Riza-i Abbasi
Album, drawings signed by or attributed to the man
acknowledged by art historians to have been among the
greatest artists of Iran’s Safavid empire (1502-1736).
Islamic Metalwork is a detailed exploration of vessels,
plates, ewers, weapons, and other objects in brass, silver,
and gold, showing the development of metalwork from the
seventh to eighth through the seventeenth centuries. An
illustrated catalogue accompanied the exhibition.

As construction on the Sackler Gallery foundation and
basic structure approached completion, design refinements
to various portions of the new building have occupied the
staff. This included particularly exhibition galleries, the
museum shop, collection storage, and the library. Equip-
ment and furnishings have had to be chosen as well.
Refinements also continued for the development of the
design for the Freer renovation to follow the relocation of
the library and offices to the Sackler building.

A grant from the Rockefeller Foundation has made it
possible to establish a Rockefeller Foundation Residency
Program in the Humanities at the Smithsonian Institution.
The grant, which supports residential fellowships in Asian
and African art, will provide two to three postdoctoral
appointments each year beginning in 1985 and continuing

through 1988. The first recipient of a Rockefeller Fellow-
ship at the Center for Asian Art is Professor James L. Wes-
coat, who teaches in the Department of Geography at the
University of Chicago. He will be resident at the Sackler
Gallery in the summers of 1986 and 1987. Professor Wes-
coat’s project is “In Gardens Watered by Running Streams:
The Meaning of Water in Mughal Gardens at Agra.”

The first purchase made for the Sackler Gallery Collec-
tion was a Japanese ceremonial lacquer palanquin (or car-
riage) of the late eighteenth to early nineteenth century. An
extremely rare object in an American museum, this palan-
quin would have been used to carry a bride to her wed-
ding, and the Sackler example shows the family crests of
the two families (including the Tokugawa family which
ruled Japan 1600-1868) to be joined.

Other major acquisitions by the Freer Gallery included a
pair of seventeenth-century Japanese screens and a
seventh-century Sasanian metalwork dish, purchased with
the first federal funds ever appropriated for Gallery collec-
tion objects. With trust funds, the Freer purchased Japa-
nese ceramics, a wooden sculpture, calligraphy, paintings,
and a bronze; Chinese calligraphy, painting, and a set of
cricket cages; Indian painting; and a Korean pottery jar of
the Old Silla dynasty (sixth century).

Donations to the Freer collections included Japanese
ceramics, paintings, lacquer; Chinese bronze, ceramics,
jade, glass, and painting; and Turkish calligraphy. Of par-
ticular note were a Chinese gray pottery wine container of
the Shang dynasty, early Anyang period (thirteenth century
B.C.) donated anonymously in memory of collector and
connoisseur Helen Dalling Ling; Chinese jades of the late
Neolithic period (ca. so000—ca. 1500 B.C.) and the Sung
dynasty (960-1279); a bronze and four glass objects of the
Chinese T’ang dynasty (618-908) given by the Honorable
and Mrs. Hugh Scott; and an eighteenth-century Edo
period six-panel Japanese screen of the Kano school given
by Mrs. Garnet Hulings. Among the donations to the
library was a limited edition of The Handmade Papers of
Japan, given by Mrs. Elizabeth Kelly Wyatt. The Sackler
Gallery and the Center for Asian Art each received their
first financial donations from the public this year.

Cooper-Hewitt Museum

The Cooper-Hewitt Museum, the Smithsonian’s National
Museum of Design since 1967, was founded in 1897 as a
“working museum” resource for professional designers
and students of the design arts. Its world-renowned
wallcoverings, decorative art objects, textiles, and prints
and drawings constitute the nucleus of a truly interna-
tional center for the study of design.

Objects of Adornment: 5,000 Years of Jewelry from the
Walters Art Gallery, Baltimore and European Illustrations:
1974-1984 were but two of many exhibitions shown this
year. Figural representations of Europe, Asia, Africa, and
North America were the theme of an unusual iconographic
study The Four Continents, a project by a student in the
museum’s Masters Degree Program. Celebration and Cere-
mony: Design in the Service of Wine, a panoramic look at
objects both ordinary and extraordinary, secular and
sacred, was made possible by Moet and Chandon Cham-
pagne and Hennessy Cognac.

Asian arts were featured in Fabled Cloth: Batik from
Java’s North Coast, underwritten by the Mobil Oil Corpo-
ration, and Chinese Gold and Silver from the T'ang
Dynasty in American Collections. American crafts and
design traditions were the subjects of Chicago Furniture:
Art, Craft and Industry, 1883-1983 and Art Pottery: A
New Vista in American Ceramics, which is now being cir-

i

This 1907 silver sideboard dish, signed “L. Morio,” was added to
the Cooper-Hewitt’s collection this year. It is 22/2 inches in
diameter, hallmarked by Holland, Aldwinkle & Slater, London.

105
culated around the country under the auspices of the
Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service.

The museum’s own holdings provided an important
nucleus for Cut Paper, a survey of over 150 examples of
this traditional art form, as well as three quarters of the
works shown in Old Master Prints from the Wallerstein
Collection, which was organized jointly by the Cooper-
Hewitt, the Bell Gallery of Brown University, and the Seat-
tle Art Museum. Timeless Sources: Rare Books in the
Cooper-Hewitt Collection was shown simultaneously with
Carnegie Libraries: A Sesquicentennial Celebration. This
tribute to the philanthropy of Andrew Carnegie was espe-
cially appropriate in the Cooper-Hewitt which was built as
Mr. Carnegie’s residence.

In 1985 a handbook on the rare book collection and a
unique volume on the design traditions associated with the
history of wine were added to the Cooper-Hewitt’s lengthy
bibliography. A major grant from the J. M. Kaplan Fund
was received which will help to provide critical seed
money for future books. Two prior-year publications, Cit-
ies: The Forces that Shape Them and American Enter-
prise: Nineteenth Century Patent Models received design
achievement awards from the National Endowment for
the Arts’ First Annual Presidential Design Awards Pro-
gram. The Amsterdam School: Dutch Expressionist Archi-
tecture 1915-1930, a 1984 copublication of the
Cooper-Hewitt and MIT Press, will soon appear in Ger-
man and French language editions.

Collections management activities continued apace
throughout the year. Refinement of collections storage and
records, including photographic documentation of several
collection groups (the latter funded by a grant from the
New York State Council on the Arts (NYSCA)) continued.

Again in 1985, the Cooper-Hewitt offered statewide con-
servation advisory service for smaller museums through-
out the state in an extensive program funded by NYSCA.

More than 5,000 persons attended the dozens of
courses, seminars, tours, and workshops offered by the
museum’s Programs Department, several of which carried
undergraduate degree credits at Parsons School of Design.
Subjects ranged from Renaissance decorative arts to sea-
side resorts in America, the arts of Indonesia, and the his-
tory of English taste. For the sixth year, the museum
participated in the popular Museum Mile Night which was
inaugurated by Mayor Ed Koch. Seventeen graduate stu-
dents received the master’s degree in history of the decora-
tive arts and design from the program which is jointly
administered with the Parsons School of Design. Another
twenty were accepted for enrollment for the 1985—86 aca-
demic year.

106

+

New York’s Mayor Ed Koch speaks at the Cooper-Hewitt
Museum during opening ceremonies of Museum Mile Night
1985.

Throughout the year, the museum received many acqui-
sitions including gifts from dozens of generous private
donors. Major purchases included a 1907 silver sideboard
plate designed by L. Morio and made by the English firm
of Holland, Aldwinkle, and Slater, and two 1874 drawings
of the P. J. Hetzel house by the French architect Eugene
Viollet-le-Duc.

One of the most exciting developments of this year was
the sale of the 1965 Rolls Royce which was donated by
John and Yoko Lennon for the museum’s benefit in 1977.
At auction, the vehicle fetched net proceeds of $2,086,450
which have been placed in a special fund pending the out-
come of a yet-to-be publicly announced capital campaign
on the museum’s behalf.

The year also saw a major decision by the Regents to
seek legislation authorizing the appropriation of $11.5 mil-
lion as one-half of the amount required to fund renovation
and expansion of the Cooper-Hewitt’s present facilities.
Legislation was subsequently introduced in the Senate and
in the House of Representatives and hearings were held by
appropriate committees. A national campaign committee
is being formed to raise the balance of necessary funds and
detailed architectural planning will move forward in 1986.
Hirshhorn Museum and
Sculpture Garden

The Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden (HMSG), a
major museum of contemporary art, maintained an active
exhibition schedule and acquisitions program this fiscal
year. Related programs of films, lectures, concerts, tours,
and other educational activities for all museum visitors
supported these programs. The museum’s departments of
conservation, registration, photography, and the reference
library offer technical support to staff and scholars.

The Founding Director Abram Lerner retired October 2,
1984; he was succeeded by James T. Demetrion, former
Director of the Des Moines Art Center, on November 1,
1984.

HMSG has organized many important exhibitions since
it opened in October 1974: loan shows, with works bor-
rowed from other museums and private collectors, and
exhibitions drawn from the museum’s extensive permanent
collection.

An important showing of the museum’s holdings, Euro-
pean Modernism: Selections from the Collection of the
Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, an exhibition
of some seventy-five paintings, sculpture, and works on
paper, was featured from September 13, 1984, through Jan-
uary 13, 1985. Jim Dine: Five Themes, which was on view
from February 20 through April 28, 1985, was an inten-
sive, mid-career retrospective for this American artist.
Focusing on five themes (tools, robes, hearts, trees, and
gates), the sixty-eight works included paintings, drawings,
mixed media compositions, and sculptures. Two monu-
mental hearts, never before exhibited, were sited on the
plaza at the museum’s entrance. Organized by the Walker
Art Center, Minneapolis, the exhibition and national tour
was generously supported by Best Products Co., Inc., and
the National Endowment for the Arts. Representation
Abroad, June 5—September 2, 1985, was curated by Joe
Shannon. The exhibition focused on the strength and
diversity of representational works by sixteen artists work-
ing in Australia, Columbia, France, Great Britain, Italy,
Spain, and West Germany. The 147 works were by Avigdor
Arikha, Arthur Boyd, Juan Cardenas, Tibor Csernus, San-
dra Fisher, Klaus Fussman, David Hockney, Nino Longo-
bardi, Antonio Lopez-Garcia, Leonard McComb, Luis
Marsans, Francesco Messina, Rodrigo Moynihan,
Wolfgang Petrick and, Isabel Quintanilla. A New Roman-
ticism: Sixteen Artists from Italy, October 3, 1985—January
5, 1986, a major loan exhibition, was curated by Howard
N. Fox. Focusing on a romantic, spiritual impulse in
recent Italian art, artists were Roberto Barni, Ubaldo Bar-
tolini, Carlo Bertocci, Lorenzo Bonechi, Patrizia Canta-
lupo, Sandro Chia, Enzo Cucchi, Gino De Dominicis,
Stefano De Stasio, Paola Gandolfi, Tommaso Lisanti,

Carlo Maria Mariani, Sabina Mirri, Mimmo Paladino,
Franco Piruca, and Marco Antonio Tanganelli. (Tour:
Akron Art Museum, Ohio, February—April 1986). A grant
from the Women’s Committee of the Smithsonian Associ-
ates enabled the museum’s conservation staff to present
Conservation of Modern Art, February 2—March 31, 1985.
The conservation of seventeen works from the museum’s
own collection was examined in detail, using the works
themselves, didactic panels, and a slide presentation.

Smaller exhibitions, organized by HMSG curator of
prints and drawings, Frank Gettings, were highlighted in
the museum’s second floor escalator lobby. Included were
Giacomo Manzu, January 31, 1984—March 18, 1985; 20th
Century Drawings from the Museum’s Collection, March
19—July 22, 1985; and Prints and Drawings of the 60s from
the Museum’s Collection, July 23-November 4, 1985.

In addition to creating its own exhibitions, the museum
also lent 233 objects to sixty-two institutions this fiscal
year. Among these were six sculptures by Chaim Gross to
the Nassau County Museum of Fine Art, Roslyn, New
York; five sculptures by Jacques Lipchitz to the Albert and
Vera List Visual Arts Center, Massachusetts Institute of
Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts; and four paint-
ings by Thomas Eakins to the Winterthur Museum, Win-
terthur, Delaware.

James T. Demetrion (/eft), director of the Hirshhorn Museum
and Sculpture Garden, presents the Grand Duke and Duchess of
Luxembourg with a catalog of the museum during their visit on
November 14, 1984.

107
International loans included four photographs by
Thomas Eakins to the Munchner Stadtmuseum, Munich,
West Germany; one painting by Francis Bacon and one by
Jackson Pollock to the Stedelijk Museum, Amsterdam,
The Netherlands; one painting by Francis Bacon to the
Tate Gallery, London, England; one watercolor by Robert
Delaunay to the Musee d’Art Moderne de la Ville de Paris,
Paris, France; and two Picasso sculptures to the Ministry
of Culture, Madrid, Spain.

Four exhibitions of works on paper, totaling 176 works,
have been loaned to Smithsonian Institution Traveling
Exhibition Service: Artists and Models: Portraits from the
Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, through April
1987; Aspects of Color: Works on Paper from the
Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, Smithsonian
Institution, through May 1985; Raphael Soyer: Sixty-five
Years of Printmaking, Selections from the Hirshhorn
Museum and Sculpture Garden, through March 1985; and
Genre Scenes: Works on Paper from the Hirshhorn
Museum and Sculpture Garden, through June 1987.

The Department of Education continued to bring the
museum’s exhibitions alive for a varied audience, ranging
from elementary school children through senior citizens.
With seventy-three docents, the department conducted
tours for more than 13,000 visitors. The summer intern
program successfully continued this year with six under-
graduate students. Regularly scheduled free films about
artists, by artist filmmakers, and a special program for
young people are all vital aspects of the museum’s outreach
to the public.

Through its acquisition program, HMSG’s permanent
collection was enriched by eight gifts and nine purchases.
Included were a large paining by William Beckman, Diana
IV, 1981; Leon Golub’s Four Black Men, 1984; In the
Infield was Patty Peccavi, 1981, a mixed media piece by
Edward and Nancy Kienholz; and Deborah Butterfield’s
monumental sculpture, Horse, 1985.

This was the scene as Hirshhorn staffers put the first massive
component of Tivo Big Black Hearts by American artist Jim Dine
in place for its first public showing. Part of the traveling exhibi-
tion Jim Dine: Five Themes, the bronze hearts had been commis-
sioned by a private collector and were later removed to another
site. Dine is watching at far right.

Joseph Henry Papers

This year was marked by the publication of the fifth vol-
ume of the letterpress edition of the Joseph Henry Papers,
documenting the years 1841—43, a period in Henry’s life
marked by intense experimentation, teaching, and a preoc-
cupation with the qualitative development of the American
scientific community.

Work has also proceeded on the sixth volume, the last
dealing with Henry’s years at Princeton, as well as the
establishment of the Smithsonian Institution, the selection
of Henry as Secretary, and his vision and plan for the Insti-
tution.

The project continued its sponsorship of the Nineteenth
Century Seminar, hosting presentations which ranged over
a broad spectrum of historical topics, including the history
of science and technology, art, and American cultural his-
tory.

Henry Papers staff cooperated with other museums in
the preparation of exhibitions, including the National
Museum of American History for a 1987 exhibition New-
ton in America, and the National Museum of Natural His-
tory for the exhibition on the Wilkes Expedition to the
South Pacific.

In addition, Henry staff made presentations at, among
others, the X VIIth International Congress of History of
Science and the History of Science Society. Nathan Rein-
gold, acting as chair of the Commission on Documenta-
tion of the Division of Historical Sciences, International
Union of the History and Philosophy of Science, organized
an international conference on historical editing in the his-
tory of science.

109

National Museum of African Art

In fiscal year 1985 the National Museum of African Art
progressed on many fronts simultaneously. Clear vision,
new staff appointments, and cooperation with numerous
areas of the Institution provided the background for
increased activity and the impetus for implementing objec-
tives needed for the forthcoming move to the National
Mall. The advancement of the museum’s mission, to bring
public understanding of African art traditions and cul-
tures, was strengthened by an active acquisitions program
and several national and international loan exhibitions.
These exhibitions placed the museum on a national circuit
of touring exhibitions, where the most significant accom-
plishments in the field of African art are reviewed. And,
while the lack of space in the current location forced the
museum to turn away over 500 tours last year, improve-
ments in the museum’s educational components were
made evident by the quality of resource materials available
to the public and by the rostrum of distinguished scholars,
foreign dignitaries, and museum-cultural administrators
visiting and lecturing at the museum.

For the first time, the museum was able to make its col-
lection and research facilities available for advanced schol-
arly research through a residency fellowship program
administered by the Smithsonian’s Office of Fellowships
and Grants. The first recipient of the Rockefeller Founda-
tion Residency Program in the Humanities is Dr. LaBelle
Prussin, professor of architecture at the University of
Washington, Seattle.

A three-year grant was awarded by The Morris and
Gwendolyn Cafritz Foundation to support the planning
and preparation of the major inaugural loan exhibition in
the Quadrangle, African Art and the Cycle of Life.

This year three major loan exhibitions opened at the
museum, each with scholarly catalogues. The first exhibi-
tion, Praise Poems: The Katherine White Collection, was
organized and circulated by the Seattle Art Museum.
Opening at the museum on October 31, 1984, fifty works
of art from the White collection of African art enabled visi-
tors to explore the meaning and aesthetics of African art.

Over 14,000 visitors in a nine-week period came to the
museum to view African Masterpieces from the Musée de
l’'Homme, the major Spring exhibition presented under the
patronage of the Ambassador of the Republic of France to
the United States and organized by The Center for African
Art, New York. One hundred world-renown works of art
from west and central Africa drawn from one of the fore-
most collections of African art in the world formed a cohe-
sive unit illustrating the history of collecting in France.

The first exhibition on the art of the Igbo-speaking peo-
ple of southeastern Nigeria opened July 31, 1985. Igbo

IIo

Arts: Community and Cosmos was based on original field-
work by Herbert Cole, professor of art history, University
of California, Santa Barbara, in collaboration with Chike
C. Aniakor, professor of art, University of Nigeria,
Nsukka. More than 100 works of Igbo art from museums
and private collections in the United States and abroad,
including Nigeria, were assembled to show the variety of
traditional arts among the Igbo.

In fiscal year 1985 the museum was fortunate to add to
its collection eighty-five works of art, including fifty-four
objects acquired through gift and thirty-one objects
acquired through purchase. The holdings were enriched by —
the donation of a private collection of thirteen works of art -
from sub-Saharan Africa, including figures, utilitarian
objects, headdresses, and amulets. A unique and well-
documented sculpture in the donation is a life-size Bamum
memorial grave figure, dated 1908. Carved in wood and
embellished with extraordinary beadwork, its origin is the ©
grassfields of Cameroon. Other gifts to the museum |
include examples of west and central African metalwork
and figurative sculpture from Mali, Nigeria, and Zaire. As
the museum prepares to move to its new headquarters, a
highly concentrated effort to strengthen the permanent |
collection continues. This year, the first group of objects of |
art consisting of twenty works from a private European
collection was purchased with Trust funds.

Other noteworthy objects acquired through purchase
during the year include: a Yoruba (Nigeria) ivory female
figure purchased with funds provided by a grant from the _

wei

Sylvia Williams (/eft), director of the National Museum of Afri-
can Art, is shown with His Excellency Emmanuel de Margerie,
Ambassador of the Republic of France, and Mrs. John Pope, of
the International Exhibitions Foundation, at the opening recep-
tion for African Masterpieces from the Museé de Homme, April
9, 1985. (Photograph by Kim Nielsen)
James Smithson Society; two Topotha beaded hats
(Republic of the Sudan) for which funds were donated by
the Friends of the National Museum of African Art; and
an Akan, Twifo-Hemang terra-cotta head (Ghana).

During the year the museum appointed a full-time, per-
manent conservator, Stephen Mellor, and an exhibition
designer, Richard Franklin. In addition, assistant registrar,
Mary Lawson, was appointed to further the implementa-
tion of sound collection management procedures. Under
the management of the museum’s fine archivist, Judith
Luskey, the Eliot Elisofon Photographic Archives assessed
projects and took inventory of all resource material in the
department. Three of the many significant donations
received during the year are 2,500 field photographs taken
in Nigeria and the Congo, 1949-59; a collection of photo-
graphs from Cameroon; and a collection of east African
photographs and a film on the archaeological site, Great
Zimbabwe.

The department of education and research conducted
250 school tours, more than 100 workshops and roo out-
reach programs. The Shell Companies Foundation
awarded a gift in February 1985 enabling the department
to begin a publication series, the first of which is titled The
Art of African Kingdoms. In addition, a grant received
from the Women’s Committee of the Smithsonian Associ-
ates enabled the museum to continue two educational out-
reach programs, “Animal Symbolism” and “African
Music.”

In conjunction with major exhibitions, art historians,
musicologists, and historians delivered lectures. Among
the museums and universities represented were: University
of Miami, Cleveland State University, University of Vir-
ginia, Yale University, University of Wisconsin, University
of Pittsburgh, Atlanta University, Governors State Univer-
sity, Georgetown University, Hunterian University (Scot-
land), Horniman Museum and Library (England), and
Universita Internazionale dell’Arte (Italy). As part of its
commitment to foster the use of the collection and its
research facilities, the museum had in residence four
scholars through the Office of Fellowships and Grants.
The scholars were: Eli Bentor, Indiana University; Elisha
Renne, University of Minnesota; Blythe Follet-Colon,
University of Connecticut; and Sharon Patton, University
of Maryland.

This unique and unusually well-documented sculpture was
donated to the National Museum of African Art, a gift of Evelyn
A. J. Hall and John A. Friede. The sculpture is a life-sized
Bamum (Cameroon) memorial grave figure, carved in wood and
embellished with extraordinary beadwork, dated 1908.

ish
National Museum of
American Art

Identity and Purpose

With a collection begun in 1829, the National Museum of
American Art (NMAA) is devoted to the acquisition, pres-
ervation, study, and exhibition of American painting,
sculpture, graphic art, and crafts. The Renwick Gallery,
established separately in 1972 under the purview of
NMAA, displays American crafts and decorative arts as
well as exhibitions of work from abroad. In addition, the
Barney Studio House is maintained by NMAA as a period
home open for tours and for special interpretive programs.

Programs & Projects

The major commitment of the NMAA is to the preserva-
tion, research, and presentation of its permanent collec-
tion. Many of the museum’s exhibition and education
programs result from this priority.

NMAAs exhibition program highlighted special aspects
of the work of well-known artists and introduced the work
of distinguished but lesser known artists, representing the
breadth of American creativity. Sharing Traditions: Five
Black Artists in Nineteenth-Century America featured
forty-nine works, the majority from the NMAA’s extensive
collection of Afro-American art, by five artists who were
acclaimed in their time and contributed significantly to the
mainstream of American art. Organized by Lynda R.
Hartigan, the accompanying catalogue contributed fresh
research to the field of black studies. Drawn from the
NMAAs extensive holdings of the artist’s work and based
on repeated interviews, Werner Drewes: Sixty-Five Years
of Printmaking, a retrospective of the printmaker’s work
was prepared by curator Martina Norelli. Homage to
Franz Kline: Photographs by Aaron Siskind, an exhibition
undertaken by Merry Foresta, included forty-eight photo-
graphs inspired by Kline’s abstract expressionist paintings
and the friendship that existed between the two men. Cre-
ation and Renewal: Views of Cotopaxi by Frederic Edwin
Church, organized by guest curator and former Smithso-
nian Fellow Katherine Manthorne, was the first exhibition
devoted to Church’s South American work—the paintings
that won him fame in the nineteenth century and upon
which his reputation firmly rests today. Organized by
Lloyd E. Herman, The Woven and Graphic Art of Anni
Albers, opening on the artist’s eighty-sixth birthday, cele-
brated her pioneer work in the medium of fine art weaving
in America. The Martha Jackson Memorial Collection,
exhibition and catalogue prepared by Harry Z. Rand, fea-
tured works championed by the unorthodox New York

Ii2

gallery dealer, perhaps best known for encouraging
abstract expressionism.

Educational outreach included a series of six programs
presented at the Barney Studio House, among them
“English Song and Poetry” and “A Shakespearean Feast.”
Made possible by a grant from the Metropolitan Life
Foundation, a symposium and lectures accompanied the
exhibition Sharing Traditions: Five Black Artists in
Nineteenth-Century America. A panel discussion cospon-
sored by the Smithsonian Resident Associates in conjunc-
tion with the opening of LIFE: The Second Decade,
1946-1955 included LIFE photographers Edward Clark,
Alfred Eisenstaedt, Martha Holmes, John Loengard, Carl
Mydans, and John Phillips who reminisced about their
work with the magazine that revolutionized photo journal-
ism. Finally, a group of scholars convened in a panel to
discuss “The Lithographs of James McNeill Whistler,” the
symposium accompanying an exhibition of the same
name.

Accessions and Deaccessions

NMAA acquired Achelous and Hercules, a major mural
by the significant American artist, Thomas Hart Benton
(1889-1975). This large painting, of egg tempera on canvas |
(63 X 262 inches), was a gift from Allied Stores Corpora-
tion and a museum purchase through the Smithsonian’s

Thomas Hart Benton’s Achelous and Hercules of 1947 was acquired this year by the National Museum of American Art, a gift of Allied
Stores Corporation and museum purchase through the Major Acquisitions Fund, Smithsonian Institution.

Collections Acquisition Program. It is among the artist’s

most forceful and successful compositions and a splendid
example of Benton’s ability to raise the American experi-
ence to the level of myth.

Other outstanding objects among approximately 930
items accessioned this year included Lorser Feitelson’s
Genesis #2, the most famous painting of the little-known
California movement, “Subjective Classicism: Post-
Surrealism”; Albert E. Gallatin’s May Composition, and
Gene Davis’s Prince Albert. Distinguished works by earlier
artists included Charles Sprague Pearce’s Lamentation
Over the Death of the First-Born of Egypt, 1877; Edward
Mitchell Bannister, Tree Landscape; a portrait of a white
woman by George Catlin; Jasper Francis Cropsey’s expan-
sive view The Coast of Genoa; and Edmonia Lewis’s
Moses (after Michelangelo).

Reflecting NMAA’s commitment to photography,
approximately 300 photographs were acquired, including
Edward Weston’s Pepper, No. 30, 1930, and Robert Map-
plethorpe’s Andre, 1984.

Fine decorative arts objects acquired by the Renwick
Gallery included Cynthia Schira’s Reflections, 1982, a
four-panel weaving using fibers and metallic threads, and
by the prominent glass artist, Harvey K. Littleton, Opales-
cent Red, translucent colored rods with clear crystal over-
lays arranged sculpturally to suggest organic growth.

NMAA received 311 paintings, sculptures, drawings,
and collages from Container Corporation of America

which is headquartered in Chicago. Each of these modern
works of art was commissioned by the corporation and
reproduced in its advertising programs inaugurated in
1937. The collection includes many individual works of
major importance and, collectively, it documents a corpo-
ration’s leading role in the cultural life of our nation. As a
body of work, it enriches the museum’s documentation of
modern graphic design and its relationship to the fine arts
in America.

Additional groups of works acquired by the museum
included twenty-six collages by Joseph Cornell, gift of his
sister Mrs. John A. Benton; eighty prints by Howard Nor-
ton Cook, gift of his widow Barbara Latham Cook; thirty-
nine prints by Louis Lozowick, gift of his widow Adele
Lozowick; six photographs by Man Ray, gift of his
widow, Mrs. Juliet Man Ray; and four sculptures by
Bruce Moore, gift of his widow Alice H. Moore.

The NMAA was established to preserve, research, and
display art of the United States. In an attempt to define
and focus this purpose more carefully, the museum’s Com-
mission approved the deaccessioning of twenty-four works
of non-American origin, as well as fifty-five paintings that
substantially duplicate other works by the same artist
which are superior in quality, or others of comparable sub-
ject, format, style, or period. The proceeds realized from
sale at public auction are to be used solely for purchase of
new acquisitions.

113
x

Aaron Siskind, Dr. Charles C. Eldredge, director of the National
Museum of American Art, and Mrs. Nan Tucker, chairman of
the museum’s commissioners, at a December 1984 preview of
Homage to Franz Kline: Photographs by Aaron Siskind.

Activity Changes

In fiscal year 1985 the museum began a one-year pilot
project to develop a research data base for a projected
Inventory of American Sculpture. The initial project, made
possible by a grant from the Henry Luce Foundation, will
allow the museum to automate the University of Dela-
ware’s Index of American Sculpture. Following the pilot,
the museum plans an intensive five-year program to seek
and record sculpture in public and private collections
throughout every region in the United States. The sculp-
ture inventory will augment NMAA’s other computerized
research resources, which constitute the most complete
data base on the subject of American art in existence.

Facilities
Restoration of the Renwick Gallery’s stone copings and

facade continued through the year and was completed in
January 1986.

114

National Museum of
American History

In fiscal year 1985 the National Museum of American His-
tory (NMAH) continued its dedication to the collection,
care, study, and exhibition of objects that reflect the expe-
rience of the American people. The museum also offered a
broad spectrum of lectures, concerts, and other programs
which interpret that experience.

The exhibition program opened in the Dibner Gallery in
October with European Roots of American Pharmacy.
The instruments, paintings, drug containers, and other
objects on view showed how the tools and practices of the
European apothecary have become embedded in the fabric
of American pharmacy. Ramunas Kondratas of the Divi-
sion of Medical Sciences organized the exhibition. From
mid-December to the close of the holiday season the
annual Trees of Christmas exhibition lent a festive air to
the building. Trees provided by the Department of Horti-
culture were decorated by volunteers with handmade
ornaments exemplifying a traditional style. The Depart-
ment of Public Programs also presented its annual Holiday
Celebration from December 26 to 31. This celebration of
America’s ethnic heritage drew on the talents of more than
six hundred participants from local ethnic communities
and attracted more than 115,000 visitors.

In January Spanning Niagara: The International
Bridges, 1848-1962 opened in the first floor special exhibi-
tion gallery. More than seventy photographs, drawings,
and lithographs illustrated the technical and esthetic chal-
lenges faced by the designers of the thirteen bridges built
over the Niagara River. The exhibition was made possible
by a grant from the New York State Council on the Arts.
Ralph Greenhill organized the exhibition in Toronto; it
was presented here under the curatorship of Robert M.
Vogel of the Division of Civil and Mechanical Engineering.
From May to August the Dibner Gallery housed Celestial
Images: Astronomical Charts 1500-1900, which traced the
evolution of decorative astronomical charts. Several celes-
tial globes, an armillary sphere, an orrery, and a comita-
rium accompanied the more than thirty star charts and
celestial atlases in the exhibition. Developed by Patricia
M. Burnham at Boston University, its showing at NVAH
was organized and curated by Deborah J. Warner of the
Division of Physical Science. A rare silver wine cup that
belonged to Governor William Bradford of the Plymouth
Bay Colony was placed on exhibition in June for a three-
year showing. The cup, made in London in 1634 and
inscribed with the initials “WB,” was purchased jointly by
the museum and the Pilgrim Society of America.

For the second year, the Resident Associate Program
sponsored a program to teach graphic arts techniques to
students in secondary schools. During the summer, an
Here is the John Bull, the world’s oldest operable locomotive, aboard an airplane for its journey from the National Museum of American
History to Texas for display at the opening of the Dallas Fine Arts District in April 1985.

exhibition of works by these students, Discover Graphics,
was especially popular among younger visitors to the
museum. The Singer Sewing Machine Company recently
donated a large collection of drawings, models, and
machines documenting the evolution of the design of their
products since the 1930s. Industrial Design: An American
Case History, which opened in July, comprised a selection
of these drawings and the machines they represented. Bar-
bara Janssen of the Division of Textiles organized the exhi-
bition. This year’s version of History as Seen from
NMAH, an annual exhibition composed of photographs
taken by Smithsonian staff photographers, also opened in
July. The exhibition covered events from around the Mall
and nearby, such as the unveiling of a statue at the Viet-
nam memorial, protests and demonstrations on the Mall,

and the inaugural activities of early 1985. The museum
commemorated the fortieth anniversary of the dropping of
the first atomic bomb in Building the Bomb: Forty Years
After Hiroshima, which related the history of the Manhat-
tan Project through photographs, documents, and artifacts
from Hiroshima and Nagasaki. Also on view were bomb
casings of “Fat Man” and “Little Boy,’ nicknames for the
bombs dropped on Nagasaki and Hiroshima, respectively.
Consultant Stanley Goldberg wrote and assembled the
exhibition. NMAH participated in the Festival of India in
September with Aditi: The Monies of India, produced by
the National Numismatics Collection. The exhibition pre-
sented examples from the museum’s collection of Indian
coins, one of the finest in this country.

The popular “Case of the Month” program of small

IIs
exhibitions continued in 1985. Presentation Swords exhib-
ited several elaborately decorated swords presented to fig-
ures such as General Ulysses S. Grant and General John J.
Pershing in recognition of their services to this country.
Black History Month saw the opening of A Constellation
of Black Sports Stars, which examined the history of black
participation in major American sports. Two of the objects
were a recent gift by the Harlem Globetrotters. Commem-
orated anniversaries included the centennials of the Pilot
Boat Association, the Visiting Nurse Association, and the
birth of Al Jolson, and the soth anniversaries of the pas-
sage of the Rural Electrification Act and the Soil Conser-
vation Act.

The first of the museum’s major reinstallations, After
the Revolution: Everyday Life in America, 1780-1800,
neared completion on the second floor. The exhibition, to
open in November 1985, explores the lives of ordinary peo-
ple who lived in America in the final two decades of the
eighteenth century. Various sections of the exhibition
examine the daily lives of a Delaware farm family, a Vir-
ginia planter family, a Yankee merchant family, and of the
people of three larger communities—the Seneca Nation of
the Iroquois Confederacy, African-Americans in the Ches-
apeake, and the busy seaport of Philadelphia. Two study
galleries, designed to provide room for temporary, smaller
exhibitions within After the Revolution, display objects
from the Divisions of Costume and of Ceramics and Glass
that enable visitors to examine in detail the techniques
artisans used to create the objects and the evolution of
their design. For foreign visitors selected labels from the
exhibition have been translated into French, German, Jap-
anese, and Spanish and will be available at the entrance.
Demolition and production have begun on the first floor in
preparation for the second exhibition in the museum’s
major reinstallation program, Engines of Change: The
Industrial Revolution in America.

The museum also contributed to shows elsewhere in fis-
cal year 1985. G. Terry Sharrer of the Division of Agricul-
ture and Natural Resources curated and coordinated the
exhibition American Anthem, created for the opening of
the Dallas Fine Arts District in April and continuing
through October of 1985. This exhibition included some of
the most important objects from the museum’s collections,
such as the John Bull locomotive, the compass of William
Clark of the Lewis and Clark expedition, and the furniture
from General Robert E. Lee’s surrender at Appomattox.

In addition to researching and organizing exhibitions
large and small the two major curatorial departments of
the museum moved forward with the scholarly work of
investigating American history, publishing articles, acquir-

116

The first laser, constructed by Theodore Maman at Hughes
Research Laboratories in 1960, sparked a series of discoveries
and applications described in The Laser at 25, a traveling exhibi-
tion organized by the National Museum of Natural History, and
produced by the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition
Service in 1985.

ing new objects, and sponsoring and attending symposia,
conferences, lectures, and other special events. The
Department of Social and Cultural History continued
work on its high priority of reinstalling the large thematic
exhibitions on American social, cultural, and political his-
tory, including After the Revolution. The concept state-
ment for the nineteenth-century Life in America exhibition
was refined and expanded, and the department produced
several smaller displays this year, including A Share in
America, which comprised a selection of paintings used as
the basis for posters, billboards, and other advertisements
encouraging Americans to buy bonds and savings stamps.
The Bradford Cup, the Singer Archives, and a model of
Louis Robert’s first papermaking machine (1801) were
important acquisitions for the department; other acces-

.

sions included forty-five examples of eighteenth-century
Meissen porcelain; many significant pieces of nineteenth-
and early twentieth-century furniture; four printing
presses; the Swain collection of thirty-five European and
American flutes; and a complete collection of television
commercials from the Reagan-Bush 1984 campaign.

Department staff organized or cosponsored many pro-
grams during the year: a one-day symposium on Eleanor
Roosevelt; a Conference on the History of Music in Amer-
ica (with the Department of Public Programs); and a meet-
ing of the Comité International des Musées et Collections
d’Instruments de Musique. Several staff members received
grants for scholarly work, including a Guggenheim Fel-
lowship of $17,000 for Cynthia Hoover of the Division of
Musical Instruments to devote one year to writing a book
on the piano in America; an $87,000 grant to John Hasse,
also of Musical Instruments, from the Indiana Historical
Society for a two-year research project on the songwriter
Hoagy Carmichael; and a grant of $42,500 from the Gold-
smith Foundation in New York to Richard Ahlborn of the
Division of Community Life (with Gus Van Beek of
NMNBH) to catalogue the Judaica collection at the
Smithsonian.

Many members of the department gave lectures at semi-
nars and other programs across the country. A partial list
includes Sheila Machlis Alexander, “The Collections Man-
ager at the National Museum of American History—
Development of a Museum Profession,’ at Hood College,
Frederick, Maryland; Claudia Kidwell, “Men and Women:
Dressing the Part,” Phoenix Art Museum; Eugene Ostroff,
“The History of Tintyping,” at the conference of the Euro-
pean Society for the History of Photography, Bradford,
England; and Edith Mayo, “Political Images of Women in
Suffrage and the ERA,” to the Women’s Study Program at
Princeton University. The Collections Management Office
staff assisted the division with inventory maintenance of
records and the processing of new accessions, adding more
than 7,000 records of new accessions and location changes
to the inventory computer file. The backlog of more than
5,000 objects awaiting registration, processing, and inven-
tory was eliminated.

The Department of the History of Science and Technol-
ogy continued with its plans for the reinstallation of its
major exhibition galleries. The script and first-stage design
for Engines of Change: The Industrial Revolution in
America were completed in 1985 and the manuscript for
the book that will accompany the exhibition was finished.
Construction began for the reinstallation of the John Bull
locomotive in its new location as an introduction to
Engines of Change. The department also launched major

planning and fund-raising efforts for other sections of the
reinstallation program, including a new hall on the infor-
mation revolution and a reinstallation of the Medical Sci-
ences exhibition, with a new emphasis on public health
and the concepts of disease. The department concluded a
successful fund-raising effort with the DuPont Company
for the production of an exhibition on the history of mate-
rials and materials science, which will serve as a general
introduction to the museum.

The past year also saw the development of a compre-
hensive American Indian program administered through
the department, funded through a Public Service Outreach
grant, and planned and initiated by Rayna Green. The
project this year helped to produce a section on the Seneca
Nation as part of After the Revolution; two staff training
seminars; Folklife Festival presentations on Indian cultural
preservation; and planning for a major teachers’ confer-
ence on American Indian history.

Other initiatives of the department included the Ninth
Annual Symposium in the History of Mathematics, held at
the museum in October 1984, organized by Uta Merzbach
of the Division of Mathematics, and a cooperative seminar
and publications venture on the history of technology with
the history department of West Virginia University. The
department was also host to several international museum
delegations, including those from the Soviet Union, the
People’s Republic of China, and France.

Among the department’s acquisitions this year were the
NASCAR “Grand National” Pontiac driven by Richard
Petty to his zooth NASCAR win; a granite “sleeper” (stone
block) from the first railroad in the United States; a rare
nineteenth-century cotton gin from Forsyth, Georgia, in
excellent condition; many objects in the field of biotech-
nology; and a camp chair used by General U.S. Grant dur-
ing the Civil War.

Members of the department spoke at seminars and con-
ferences across the country and internationally. A partial
list includes Roger White, a lecture on recreational vehicles
at the museum and at the University of Delaware; William
L. Withuhn, “A Look to the Future,’ keynote address at
the soth Anniversary Convention of the National Railway
Historical Society; and Ramunas Kondratas, “Collecting
and Interpreting the Artifacts of Biotechnology,” at the
International Congress of the History of Science, Univer-
sity of California at Berkeley. The department continued
its effort to automate its collection, the rehousing of some
of its transportation vehicles at Silver Hill, and its move
out of basement storage areas to consolidate and protect
collections.

The Department of Public Programs, created as part of

117
last year’s reorganization of NMAH, moved in new direc-
tions to provide expanded educational services and contin-
ued to produce a series of public programs and concerts
that contributed new perspectives on current exhibitions
and topics related to the national collections. The depart-
ment’s Education Office worked with staff members of the
Department of Social and Cultural History to develop a
learning facility for family groups within the new exhibi-
tion After the Revolution: Everyday Life in America,
1780-1800. This facility, called the Hands on History
Room, will allow visitors to explore the methodologies of
historians through sixteen self-directed activities. The
office also continued to oversee the activities of some two
hundred volunteer docents who conducted programs for
nearly 80,000 museum visitors during the year, and to pro-
duce biweekly Saturday After Noon programs for family
visitors.

The department’s Program in Black American Culture
presented combined colloquia and concerts on “Women in
Blues” and “Music of the Black American Composer.”
“The Art of Jazz Improvization,’ which featured a lecture
by Dr. Leonard Goines, a discussion with several artists
and scholars, and performances by Doc Cheatham, Clark
Terry, and Archie Shepp, was a joint effort between the
Program in Black American Culture and the Frank Nelson
Doubleday Lecture Series. These colloquia-concerts pre-
sented original research in Black American musical culture
conducted by the program staff.

The Chamber Music Program, which comprises the
Smithsonian Chamber Players, the Smithson String Quar-
tet, and the Smithsonian Chamber Orchestra, had its most
active season to date, with twenty-eight concerts at the
Smithsonian and tours by the museum’s resident ensembles
to Europe and throughout the United States. The
expanded Smithsonian Chamber Orchestra also began
preparation for a six-record Mozart recording project
already in progress for the Smithsonian Institution Press.
Support for these programs came from the SI Press, the
National Associate Program, and the Resident Associate
Program, which coproduced the Chamber Orchestra,
Smithson String Quartet, and the Chamber Players’
Baroque Heritage series. The chamber music program
reached more than five million listeners beyond the
museum walls through broadcasts of its concerts produced
by WBUR (Boston) on National Public Radio and by
KSJN (St. Paul) for the American Public Radio network.

The Department of Public Programs presented several
other regular series including Music: An American Sam-
pler; Jazz in the Palm Court, produced by the Program in
Black American Culture; Palm Court Cameos of turn-of-

118

After the Revolution: Everyday Life in America, 1780-1800 is a
major presentation of artifacts suggesting new perspectives on
the changes confronting Native Americans, Europeans, and Afri-
can Americans during this nation’s formative years. The utensils
shown here are in the section “The Farm Family, New Castle
County, Delaware.” National Museum of American History.
(Photograph by Kim Nielsen)

the-century popular and light classical music; America on
Film, a free film theater cosponsored by the Smithsonian
Women’s Committee and the Smithsonian Resident Associ-
ate Program; and twelve outdoor concerts staged in the
National Bandstand. The department also played a major
role in organizing, overseeing, and contributing to the
Smithsonian’s “Conference on Music in America,” held
May 2 to 4. The conference brought together some fifty
artists, scholars, and organizational representatives to dis-
cuss the Smithsonian’s role in the research and presenta-
tion of American musical forms.

At the National Numismatic Collection the year began
with the publication of executive director Elvira Clain-
Stefanelli’s Numismatic Bibliography by Battenberg Verlag
in Munich, Germany. In addition to Aditi: The Monies of
India, the staff produced an exhibition of Arizona-related
numismatic material featured at the Tucson Convention in
January, and twenty exhibit cases highlighting coins from
the collections for the national convention of the American
Numismatic Association in Baltimore.

Staff members completed the editing, organization, and
indexing of the 268 microphotography rolls comprising
some 194,000 frames, took over the photographing of new
accessions this year, photographed roughly 2,800 speci-
mens accessioned in 1984 and 1985, and set up a rudimen-
tary darkroom to fulfill many photographic requests of the
staff in-house. Through a grant awarded by the Research
Opportunities Fund, Cory Gillilland traveled to Stock-
holm, Sweden, to deliver a paper at the congress spon-
sored by the International Federation of the Medal.
Raymond Hebert traveled to Amman, Jordon, in March to
deliver a paper at the fourth Bilad Ash-Sham Conference,
and Leopolod Cancio, our volunteer specialist, was
awarded the Ruiz de Larramendi Medal of the Asociacion
Numismatica Espanola for the best numismatic article of
1984. This year’s accessions totaled 76 and comprised
3,632 objects; among these were 110 U.S. coins, including
a rare original Confederate States of America cent struck
in copper-nickel, and 16 colonial and early American
paper money items.

The staff of the National Philatelic Collection spent
much of last year processing and cataloguing the backlog
of past accessions prior to the reinventory and the estab-
lishment of the Master Collection, which began in mid-
summer. The addition of a special alcove adjacent to the
Hall of Postal History and Philately helped improve the
security and display the nation’s philatelic treasures. A
research center was created to aid visiting scholars using
the specimens and reference collections. Following the
completion of the research center, librarian Nancy Pope
began organizing and shelving the library collection, the
largest of its kind in the world.

The staff of the collection organized two Cases of the
Month this year—King of Hobbies . . . Hobby of Kings,
about the history of stamp collecting, and Benjamin
Franklin and the Colonial Posts—and participated in
many seminars, courses, and lectures. James H. Bruns
gave an interview for Radio Smithsonian on animals and
the mails, and presented a four-session Smithsonian Studio
Arts course. Executive director Herbert Collins presented
several lectures during the year on the early history of the
Smithsonian Institution, and Reidar Norby spoke on the
rarities of the collections. A special search for three-
dimensional objects led to the acquisition of a 1941 Model
AA Parcel Post truck and a three-wheeled van used in the .

1960s; other important acquisitions included Russian
Zemstoy and Russian Imperial postage stamps and covers
and ten colonial postal documents.

During fiscal year 1985 the Division of Conservation
emphasized projects to reduce the backlog of conservation
problems found in many collections. Major collections
given such attention included patriotic posters of World
Wars I and II, glass photographic plates depicting the
motion studies of Eadweard Muybridge, and regimental
flags of the Civil War. All told, the division examined,
treated, or rehoused more than 3,000 objects. Conserva-
tion work request and reporting records were converted to
a WANG PC database, allowing greater administrative
efficiency with no increase in clerical staff.

The division aided in the training of NMAH staff
through the organization of lectures and hands-on work-
shops on “Care, Storage, and Handling of Photographic
Collections” and “Museum Pests: Their Identification and
Control,’ and guidance on cleaning methods to NVAH
curatorial and exhibits staff involved in the maintenance of
permanent exhibition areas. Head conservator Scott Odell
gave a week-long series of lectures on “Conservation
Administration” and “Functional Objects Conservation”
to Canadian Park Service and National Museum staff in
Ottawa. f

In fiscal year 1985 the Office of the Registrar established
an Office of Central Catalog, hiring and training five tech-
nicians to work with automation of collections informa-
tion. Their work supports inventory maintenance,
refinement, and collections research. Record Files have
reoccupied their space vacated due to asbestos contamina-
tion and have subsequently upgraded records storage sys-
tems. The loan program remained understaffed
throughout most of the year, but despite this provided sup-
port to special exhibits and processed more than 1,400
loan transactions involving 12,000 objects. This year a full
staff in the Objects Processing Facility made possible sig-
nificant progress in reducing backlogs and establishment
of two staging areas that support major exhibitions and
acquisitions. The past fiscal year saw major progress at
Silver Hill where the office is directly responsible for more
than 1,000,000 objects. The office continued the five-year
cleaning project for asbestos-contaminated objects and the
rearrangement of storage to accommodate building reno-
vations and facilitate loans. The Office of the Registrar
has grown with the addition of responsibility for Silver
Hill, inventory, and central catalog functions; staff and
budget doubled in fiscal year 1985.

The Computer Services Center, previously a part of the
Office of the Registrar, became a separate entity during the

119
year. A major effort was undertaken with the purchase of
the WANG VS 100 minicomputer early in the year to
acquire WANG Professional Computers (PCs) to be used
both as stand-alone microcomputers and as VS 100 termi-
nals. The year began with fifteen WANG terminals tied
directly to the VS 100 and ended with 60 microcomputers
and terminals available to staff.

An expert in museum space planning, David W. Scott,
has been engaged to develop a master space plan for the
museum as well as to help coordinate major renovations of
the building’s climate control and fire protection systems
with the reinstallation of public spaces projected over the
next several years. Work will affect the entire building and
has to be coordinated with the ongoing removal of asbes-
tos at Silver Hill, the projected move to the Museum Sup-
port Center, and commitments to the public. Planning is
being conducted in cooperation with the Smithsonian’s
Office of Design and Construction and contracted archi-
tects and engineers. The coordinated construction sched-
ule and the long-range plan should be completed during
fiscal year 1986.

At the Archives Center staff members organized and
rehoused items in more than two hundred boxes of busi-
ness ephemera in the Warshaw Collection of Business
Americana and produced written “finding aids” to the col-
lection. The center is also preparing the Donald Sultner-
Welles Collection of some 100,000 photographs of people,
architecture, and general scenes for research use. With
funding from the Smithsonian Regents and the National
Endowment for the Humanities, historian Spencer Crew
continued work on Field to Factory: Afro-American
Migration, 1915-1940, the first exhibition in a major
museum on this important demographic movement. After
three years of planning and months of testing equipment
and procedures, staff members have begun to enter
descriptions of archival collections into the Smithsonian
Institution Bibliographic Information system (SIBIS). Fully
implemented, the system will enable researchers across the
country to learn quickly of the holdings of the Archives
Center and other archival units. The new additions to the
center’s holdings, which now comprise 173 collections,
range from a nearly complete set of television commercials
from the Pepsi-Cola Company to the research files, unpub-
lished manuscripts, and thousands of photographs of Carl
de Wendler-Funaro, a lifelong student of American Gyp-
sies.

The major work of the Afro-American Communities
Project during the year was the collecting of wills, the
investigation of more than four hundred probate records,
and extensive analysis of probate and demographic data

I20

from the antebellum black community of Cincinnati. Bio-
graphical information on Cincinnati blacks has been com-
piled to augment the probate data and a database and code
book for analyzing the probate data produced. The Direc-
tor of the Afro-American Communities Project, James O. )
Horton, presented several lectures last year, including
“Black Americans and the Constitution during the Nine- |
teenth Century,” at Catholic University, Washington, D.C.,
and “Teaching Race and Gender in the Classroom,” Race
and Class Conference, William Patterson College, Wayne,
New Jersey.

The Project on the Vietnam Generation is a private,
nonprofit organization established in January 1985 and
housed in the National Museum of American History. The
project is a network of more than five hundred scholars,
journalists, clergy, and others interested in studying how
the Vietnam War and other events of the 1960s and early
1970s affect the actions and attitudes of the sixty million
Americans who came of age during that time. Last year’s
efforts included a survey of college and university courses
on Vietnam events; a quarterly newsletter; and planning
for a conference in 1986. Contributors to the project as of
August 1985 included The Ford Foundation, members of
the Rockefeller family, and the Episcopal Church.

National Portrait Gallery

Among the major exhibitions presented this year at the
National Portrait Gallery (NPG) was a show of the witty
caricatures of Mexican artist Miguel Covarrubias. Covar-
rubias came to New York in the early 1920s and soon was
publishing his visual comments on the American cultural
scene in the New Yorker and Vanity Fair. Original draw-
ings and paintings for both previously published and
unknown caricatures were exhibited. Part of this exhibi-
tion was sent in February 1985 to the San Angelo Museum
of Art, Texas, for the inaugural show of the new museum.

Other noteworthy exhibitions this year included Peace
and Friendship: Indian Peace Medals in the United States
which illustrated the significant role the medals played in
relations between native Americans and the U. S. Presi-
dents. It brought together for the first time examples of all
the peace medals issued by the United States Government.
This exhibition subsequently traveled to the Buffalo Bill
Historical Museum in Cody, Wyoming, the Joslyn
Museum of Art in Omaha, Nebraska, and the Denver
Museum of Natural History. Joseph Wright, American
Artist, 1756-1793, prepared by staff curator Monroe H.
Fabian, examined the work of a man who was the first
American-born artist to study at London’s Royal Acad-
emy, the first to sculpt George Washington, and the first
engraver to the U. S. Mint. A Truthful Likeness: Chester
Harding and His Portraits, by guest curator Leah Lipton,
and William Edward West: 1799-1857, Kentucky Painter,
reexamined the work of these two neglected mid-
nineteenth century artists and underscored the richness
and diversity of their portrait work. The Harding and
West exhibitions were shown simultaneously first at NPG
and then at the J. B. Speed Museum in Louisville, Ken-
tucky, while the West exhibition was on view at the Lauren
Rogers Museum, Laurel, Mississippi, during the summer
of 1985. Baseball Immortals: The Photographs of Charles
Martin Conlon 1915-1935 was selected from nearly 7,000
glass plate negatives in the collection of the Sporting
News, the nation’s oldest sports publication. After its
opening in October 1984 at the NPG, the exhibition began
a national tour under the auspicies of the Smithsonian
Institution Traveling Exhibition Service. The other large
photographic exhibition presented this year was Metro-
politan Opera Centennial: A Photographic Album, a loan
show from the Metropolitan Opera chronicling the great
moments in the history of that institution.

Two exhibitions focussed on individuals in American
history. Thomas Paine: A Hero Scorned included sculp-
ture, prints, books, cartoons, and paintings relating to
Paine’s career as a political and social reformer both in
America and abroad, and to the vicissitudes of his reputa-

tion in America and abroad. U. S. Grant: The Man and
the Image commemorated the centennial of Grant’s death
and focussed on his role as soldier and president. It was
jointly organized by James G. Barber of the gallery’s staff
and the Lyndon Baines Johnson presidential Library in
Austin, Texas, to which it moved at the close of its Wash-
ington showing. Two additional one-gallery shows fea-
tured family portraits of famous nineteenth-century
individuals and Women on Time appeared in the room
devoted to Time cover originals.

Three exhibitions were distinguished not only by the
private support they received and by the research of staff
and guest curators, but also by honors received for their
catalogues from the American Association of Museums.
Peace and Friendship: Indian Peace Medals by Father
Francis Paul Prucha won an Award of Distinction and
Miguel Covarrubias Caricatures by Beverly J. Cox and
Denna Jones Anderson, and William Edward West, 1788-
1857: Kentucky Painter, by Estill Curtis Pennington each
won an Award of Merit, as did the gallery’s quarterly Cal-
endar of Events.

In addition to the numerous exhibition related cata-
logues, the National Portrait Gallery descriptive brochure
was revised. A favorable reader’s report was received by
the Yale University Press, which sets in place the publica-
tion of volume 2 of the Selected papers of Charles Willson
Peale and His Family. This large volume—Charles Willson
Peale: The Artist as Museum Keeper, 1791-1810, will be
published in two parts.

All exhibitions of the National Portrait Gallery are
accompanied by a diverse series of programs ranging from
current Lunchtime Lectures to such major efforts as a sym-
posium devoted to sports photography occasioned by the
Conlon exhibition. The Education Department continues
to provide in its acclaimed Portraits in Motion series por-
traiture in theater; as a complement to the gallery’s Perma-
nent Collection of Notable Americans, this year Eleanor
Roosevelt, Frederick Douglass, Charles Ives, and Thomas
Paine were among those celebrated. Gallery programs
have also included lectures presented throughout the
nation (and, in the spring, as far overseas as Tokyo, Japan)
by staff members.

This past year the NPG purchased more than 100 works
for the collection and received approximately 75 gifts.
Notable painted portraits included Revolutionary War and
War of 1812 officer William Hull by Gilbert Stuart, writer
Dashiel Hammet and singer Lena Horne by Edward Biber-
man, and self-portraits of artists Frank Duveneck and
Alice Neel. Major prints and other paper works include
images of artists Thomas Hart Benton and John Stewart

I21I

Curry, a multiple in cast paper by Chuck Close of com-
poser Philip Glass, a Covarrubias caricature of collector
Chester Dale, Ben Shahn’s drawing of atomic physicist

J. Robert Oppenheimer, as well as a rare broadside adver-
tising a $100,000 reward for John Wilkes Booth and his
accomplices. Among the outstanding photographs
acquired are the portraits of photographer Edward Stei-
chen by Heinrich Kuhn, two portraits of Edward Everett
by the Scottish photographers Hill and Adamson, a tintype
of James Butler (“Wild Bill”) Hickok, authors Tennessee
Williams and S. J. Perelman by Irving Penn, composer
Aaron Copland by George Platt Lynes, entertainer Gypsy
Rose Lee by Ralph Steiner, and photographer Diane Arbus
by Garry Winogrand.

The national survey of the Catalog of American
Portraits—a research center within the National Portrait
Gallery now in its seventh year—conducted field research
in Texas, Oklahoma, and New Mexico, adding approxi-
mately 1,500 additional portrait records to the Catalog. In
all, some 26,000 records will have been processed and
entered into the computer by the end of fiscal year 1985,
comprising a data base from which computer-generated
printouts will have been sent to more than 275 portrait-
Owning institutions. In addition to responding to daily
inquiries from museum professionals and the general pub-
lic, the Catalog played an important role in securing mate-
rials for major studies of Raphaelle Peale, Henry Inman,
Anders Zorn, and Frank Duveneck, and is assisting in the
groundwork for an exhibition of American Portraiture
from 1700-1776.

Author Dashiell Hammett was the subject of a second portrait
by Edward Biberman added to the National Portrait Gallery’s
collections.

Office of American Studies

The Office of American Studies (OAMERS) continued its
program in graduate education throughout the year. The
1984 fall semester seminar in “Material Aspects of Ameri-
can Civilization” had as its theme “Material Culture of the
Future,” and was taught by the director of the program
and Professor Bernard Mergen of the George Washington
University.

“The Decorative Arts in America,” another seminar dur-
ing the academic year 1984-85, was taught by Barbara G.
Carson. Individual graduate students continued to pursue
specialized research under the supervision of the director
of the Office of American Studies.

123

124
Conservation Analytical
Laboratory

The Conservation Analytical Laboratory (CAL) engages in
research in the conservation, technical study, and analysis
of museum objects and related materials. Within these
areas of expertise it provides advice and services to other
bureaus. Conservation-related information is made avail-
able to museum professionals nationwide and to the gen-
eral public. CAL plans and implements the activities of the
Smithsonian conservation training program.

While the administrative structure of the laboratory
consists of a number of departments—conservation, con-
servation science, archaeometry, and information—these
groups are highly interrelated and mutually dependent.
The increased emphasis on research activities, a trend
strongly continued in this past year, reflects a change in
CAL’ role away from that of a basically service oriented
organization. Great progress was made in implementing
the new program initiatives in research and training.

The conservation staff was increased with four new con-
servators to a total of eleven. A visiting furniture conserva-
tor from the Netherlands worked at CAL for half a year.

The efforts of the conservators were focused on three
general areas: conservation treatment, research, and train-
ing. Actual treatment of Smithsonian collection items is
not a goal per se, but rather serves to focus attention on
urgent problems in conservation which need further
research, or to apply the results of research on the develop-
ment of conservation technology in practice. Nonetheless,
the efforts of the conservators constituted significant assis-
tance to the various Smithsonian museums.

In addition to individual object-oriented projects, the
conservators actively pursued more general research inter-
ests, such as the effects of removal of cellulose degradation
products during water washing; the history and technol-
ogy of coated papers; the study of early printing inks; the
preservation problems of weighted silks; silver cyanide
corrosion as a result of earlier treatment; the treatment of
salt efflorescence on ceramic and stone objects; the mate-
rial properties and the conservation of zinc sculpture; the
conservation of leather objects; the suitability of commer-
cial glazing stains for furniture conservation treatment;
and the use of nitrocellulose lacquer as a contemporary
finishing material. CAL conservators contribited a num-
ber of papers and presentations at various professional
meetings.

A team of fifteen CAL conservators and scientists pro-
duced thorough documentation on the condition of the
component wood, metal, and fabric parts of the Wright
Brothers’ Flyer, as well as chemical analyses of varnish and

paint finishes and lubricants, in preparation for the resto-
ration by NASM staff.

126

Assistance to other bureaus through the program for
environmental monitoring of exhibition and storage areas
continued. Preparation of the fumigation facility at the
Museum Support Center progressed satisfactorily.

CAL staff introduced a number of new initiatives in con-
servation training. Five advanced conservation courses,
taught by recognized experts, were organized: “Design and
Operating Parameters of Suction Tables for Paper Conser-
vation”; “Wood Identification”; “Polymer Chemistry”;
“Molding and Casting of Museum Objects”; and “Glass
Restoration.” In addition, CAL cosponsored three courses
organized by other institutions.

Training was also provided in the form of internships at
various levels of professional advancement and experi-
ence. Four textile conservation interns worked at CAL
during the summer. Two conservation students were
selected for one year internships, to be served during the
academic year 1985-86. Also selected was the first post-
graduate conservation intern. This internship is meant to
enable the recipient to engage in a research project as well
as to build practical experience.

In addition, CAL staff participated in the provision of
conservation information to other museum professionals,
lecturing both within the Smithsonian and at other institu-
tions.

The public conservation information program answered
an average of twenty-five inquiries per week, an increasing
number of which were received from conservation profes-
sionals from other institutions.

The staff in the conservation science group, which saw
two new additions, was reorganized into three sections:
inorganic chemistry, organic chemistry, and climate-
related studies. The staff in these sections were involved in
a wide variety of research projects and performed a large
number of chemical or physical analyses and technical
studies in support of Smithsonian conservators. Staff
members reported on the results of their work through
publications and a number of lectures and papers at pro-
fessional meetings.

The scientists studied the effects of various fumigants on
materials from which museum objects are composed; the
composition and technology of historic wire used for
stringing harpsichords; the composition of sequential lay-
ers of volcanic tephra from Costa Rica; an investigation of
corrosion induced on metal objects by fatty acids intro-
duced in earlier conservation treatments; characterization
of jade sources used by the Mayas; compositional studies
on French medieval sculptural limestones of the Paris and
Burgundy regions; characterization of turquois sources in
the American Southwest; and the dimensional changes,

and consequent damage, in woodwind instruments as a
result of changes in relative humidity during playing. Mea-
surements were also made of firing conditions in a tradi-
tional Indian potter’s kiln, erected at the Museum Support
Center in connection with the Aditi Festival; these have
direct applications in the interpretation of technological
studies of archaeological ceramics. Research continued on
the interaction of the architectural design and climate con-
trol in historic structures and other museum buildings.
Special equipment, to produce a continuous record of heat
and moisture transport through walls, was designed and is
being installed within the new facade of the Renwick Gal-
lery.

In the archaeometry program the work of laboratory
studies of museum collection items and excavated artifacts
to investigate problems in anthropology and art history
resulted in many publications and papers presented at pro-
fessional meetings.

Visiting CAL on a Fulbright Hays Research Fellowship,
Maria Ligeza, from the Academy of Fine Arts in Krakow,
Poland, studied the effects of gamma radiation on the oxi-
dation of linseed oil, in conjunction with the program for
neutron induced autoradiography.

Two areas for major concentration of long-term archae-
ological studies were identified: the American Southwest
and the Middle East. One newly started project focuses on
the social relationships among the Hopi tribes during the
period A.D. 1300-1600 as these can be inferred from a
compositional, technological, and stylistic analysis of yel-
low firing pottery, integrated with more traditional archae-
ological information.

A Scholarly Studies grant enabled the undertaking of a
project titled “The Production and Distribution of
Ceramics in Fourth and Third Millennia B.C. Middle
Asia,’ an integrated typological, technological, and chemi-
cal examination of ceramics, to address socio-economic
aspects of state development in the Indus Valley and the
Helmand civilization.

The program of lead isotope analyses, in cooperation
with the National Bureau of Standards, the Freer Gallery,
and the Corning Museum of Glass, concentrated upon
analyses of Chinese bronzes in the Sackler Collection,
while analyses on a group of Chinese glasses from the col-
lections of the Royal Ontario Museum and the Corning
Museum of Glass were completed.

The Smithsonian Archaeometry Research Collections
and Records (SARCAR) now contains about 22,000 ana-
lytical datasets of archaeological materials; the research
capability of the database was enhanced through a new set
of more interactive statistical facilities. An important sam-

Scientist David Erhardt inspects the port of the Conservation
Analytical Laboratory’s organic mass spectrometer, which
became operational this year. This system is the only one in the
United States completely dedicated to research related to
museum objects.

ple and reference materials collection of archaeo-
metallurgical interest was donated to SARCAR.

Two postdoctoral fellows in Materials Analysis pursued
projects at CAL during this year, on the raw materials used
in the production of Central European Iron Age glass, and
on a mineralogical, chemical, and technological study of
the use of specular hematite as a pigment on Mesoameri-
can ceramics.

Research continued on the application of electromagnet-
ically induced conductivity measurements for the prospec-
tion of archaeological sites in Bahrein, Kuwait, and
Jordan. This research was carried out in close cooperation
with the Department of Anthropology, National Museum
of Natural History.

127

National Museum Act Programs

The National Museum Act (NMA), established by Con-
gress in 1966, responded to continuing needs in the
museum field through grants for researching museum-
related problems, disseminating technical information,
and training mid-career or beginning professionals. Con-
servation issues were again emphasized in each of the
grant categories that were offered in 1985. The Advisory
Council reviewed 185 proposals requesting $3.2 million,
and sixty-four awards were made totaling $659,363. Of
that number 64 percent concerned training and research in
conservation.

Training grants for beginning professionals were made
to academic institutions with museum-related courses, to
museums with established internship programs, and to
individuals pursuing graduate or advanced training in con-
servation both here and abroad. Internship programs,
which enable individuals to gain valuable hands-on experi-
ence that cannot be acquired in an academic setting,
involved art and history museums as well as a planetarium
in the Midwest and major botanical gardens in New York,
Massachusetts, and Missouri.

Seminars supported by NMA are designed primarily to
reach professionals who are already employed by muse-
ums and who can profit from updated information on spe-
cialized topics. In 1985, several seminars were supported in
various regions of the country to focus on conservation-
awareness in small and medium-sized museums, and a
regional conservation center in the Northwest brought
together directors of small museums and conservators to
discuss the visual effects of treatments for paintings.

Again this year, most of the awards for research projects
involved issues associated with the conservation of
museum collections. For example, scientists in North Car-
olina are studying the deterioration mechanisms of silk for
the purpose of developing improved conservation treat-
ments, and a researcher in Kentucky is investigating meth-
ods for identifying irreplaceable diacetate negatives in
photographic collections so they can be treated or dupli-
cated before rapid degeneration begins.

A special category of grants concerns technical services
to the museum field that do not involve training or
research. This year a museum-related organization in New
York was funded to produce data sheets on health hazards
in museum laboratories, a subject of increasing concern to
practicing conservators, and a major art museum in Phila-
delphia received assistance in publishing the proceedings
of an important conference on the conservation of outdoor
sculptural monuments.

128

Office of Exhibits Central

The projects performed by the Office of Exhibits Central
(OEC) continue to reflect the diversity of interests and
high degree of specialization as well as the truly unique
aspects of museum exhibitions required by the Smithso-
nian. OEC completed a life-size model of the jaw of the
Carcharodon megalodon, a prehistoric shark, in mid-
September. The model, the only one of its type, required
almost three years of development and will be installed in
the Dinosaur Hall in the National Museum of Natural
History, where it will remain on exhibit indefinitely.

About six feet in height, the open jaw contains 265
teeth—48 original fossils and 217 reproductions. Because
there are no fossil remains of the jaw itself, senior OEC
model maker Walter Hock worked from the calculations
of scientists at the National Museum of Natural History
and the American Museum of Natural History to sculpt
three life-size models of the jaw in plastilene, a reuseable
synthetic clay. The 217 teeth were cast in epoxy over sev-
eral months, and at least six student interns worked on
sanding, detailing, and painting the models under the
supervision of OEC staff as part of their training. After the
scientists gave final approval of the size and configuration
of the jaw, a team of model makers joined Walter Hock to
produce the exhibit model in fiberglass. This project—a
once-in-a-career experience for the model makers—
produced an object that will be part of the permanent col-
lections.

The Fabrication Unit of the OEC—which includes the
cabinet shop, paint shop, and sheet plastics shop—
constructed and supervised the installation of two groups
of custom exhibition cases for the Cooper-Hewitt
Museum. These cases were designed to fit the unique
architectural detailing of the Cooper-Hewitt galleries. The
cases also required specialized security and conservation
features and the subcontracting of certain glass, metal, and
electrical components, all of which were delivered to New
York and assembled on-site—a planning and logistical
exercise involving several SI units.

The Fabrication Unit also produced over 180 custom
shipping containers to ship museum objects and exhibition
components for the Smithsonian Institution Traveling
Exhibition Service (SITES). Sixty-five of these containers
were for one exhibition: Ebla to Damascus: The Archaeol-
ogy of Ancient Syria, the largest and most complex project
performed at OEC this year. This SITES exhibition
opened at the Walters Gallery in Baltimore in early Sep-
tember 1985 and will be shown at only five other museums
in the United States—ending at the Evans Gallery of the
NMNH-— before being returned to Syria. Exhibition plan-
ning began in 1984, and the.actual work, which at some
point involved every OEC unit, began in April 1985. The
exhibition was designed by Mary Dillon and written and
edited by Rosemary Regan, OEC specialist with experi-
ence in large exhibition projects requiring coordination
with scholars outside the Institution and teamwork within
OEC. Ms. Regan worked with information provided by
four academic consultants to prepare the texts and labels
that identify and interpret—and interrelate in a consistent
style—281 objects covering 10,000 years of history. Ms.
Dillon devised a system of graphics panels, using maps and
time lines to relate time, place, and objects throughout the
exhibition. In addition to the objects, which range in size
from a cylinder seal */2-inch long to a stone “cult basin”
weighing 1600 pounds, 68 panels of photographs, draw-
ings, maps, and texts travel with this presentation.

OEC specialists typeset and proofread all of the typog-
raphy for Ebla to Damascus, prepared all of the maps and
diagrams, silkscreened labels and illustrations, and
mounted the photographs. Working with SITES coordina-
tor Anne Gossett and SITES Registrar Mary Jane Clark,
and with conservators and other museum specialists, the
OEC Model Shop produced brackets and handling devices
for most of the objects—including a very innovative
fiberglass “jacket” to protect and display two delicate fres-
coes. Model makers and fabrication specialists worked in
teams to modify approximately fifteen of the shipping
crates in which the heavier objects were delivered from
overseas to assure safety and ease of handling for the U.S.
tour.

The Ebla exhibition was a major project for the OEC in
fiscal year 1985, and it will be a major museum event in
each of the six cities where it will be presented. A project
of this scope also illustrates the variety of skills practiced
at OEC and demonstrates the manner in which coordi-
nated scheduling of separate tasks in OEC offices and
shops results in what is perceived as a single presentation.
Every OEC staff member does not work on the same
project at the same time, however, and more than two
hundred separate projects were completed this year—a
yearly norm for the OEC. In addition to Ebla, twenty
other new SITES exhibitions were completed at OEC this
year on schedule for museum openings in all parts of the
United States. Exhibition-related projects included design-
ing, writing, editing, and supervising the printing of over
seventy brochures for the travel programs of the SI Associ-
ates, the production and silkscreening of 123 graphics pan-
els for the Festival of American Folklife, and a series of
small panels installed in four SI buildings to recognize the
twentieth anniversary of the Smithsonian Resident Associ-
ates.

OEC staff conducted a three-day on-site workshop on
exhibition techniques for the Minnesota Historical Society,
served as faculty for professional workshops in Washing-
ton, and provided in-shop training and graduate intern-
ships. Other highlights of the OEC year include producing
exacting models of owl eggs for the Education Department
of the National Zoological Park, making a life mask of
astronaut Senator Jake Garn for the National Air and
Space Museum, and guiding and supporting the Washing-
ton Craft Show sponsored by the Women’s Committee of
the Smithsonian Associates. The OEC year began with the
completion of last year’s major project: OEC and SITES
staff returned the exhibition Treasures from the Smithso-
nian Institution from Edinburgh. More than 250 objects
were safely returned to the thirteen Smithsonian museums
that participated in that project.

It has been more than a year since the administrative,
editorial, and typesetting offices joined the rest of the OEC
staff at the Smithsonian Institution Service Center (SISC)
at 1111 North Capitol Street, and the advantages of the
entire staff working under one roof have become increas-
ingly apparent. Coordination between designers, editors,
and shop supervisors is smoother than ever before. A new,
consolidated Administrative Unit has been established,
and other organizational changes have been developed to
strengthen management of OEC resources.

129
Office of Horticulture

During its thirteenth year, the Office of Horticulture con-
tinued to provide a full range of horticultural services to
the bureaus as well as educational programs for Associate
Members and the general public. An office memorandum
and related policies were developed, and an administrative
officer, a librarian, and museum specialist joined the staff.
Volunteers and interns made it possible to complete several
special projects.

The office provided almost 14,000 tropical, seasonal,
and collection plants and 102 floral arrangements for over
500 Smithsonian special events, a twenty-five percent
increase over 1984. In addition, fifteen trees, 1,100 poinset-
tias, evergreen wreaths, and garlands were displayed dur-
ing the Christmas season.

The eighth annual Trees of Christmas exhibition con-
tained twelve new collections of ornaments. Dixie Rettig,
an office volunteer, assisted Lauranne Nash in coordinat-
ing the exhibition, presented in the National Museum of
American History, from December 4, 1984 through Janu-
ary 6, 1985. Over 275 volunteers created the 2,868 orna-
ments, which were donated for future exhibitions.
Volunteers Barbara Restum, Jane Cronin, and Bonnie
Hooker assisted with the installation.

The Accessioning and Records System for living plant
collections now prints accession cards within one week
from the date of entry. Data on over 12,000 accessioned
plants have been edited.

To refine the permanent collection at the greenhouse and
prepare for the opening of the Quadrangle Project, 25,402
orchids and 232 bromeliads were repotted. Orchid displays
were installed in the National Capital Orchid Society and
Maryland Orchid Society shows. Although noncompeti-
tive, the office was recognized by a letter of appreciation
and a first-place award. These exhibitions often attract
such donations as the 260 specimen orchid plants and 35
assorted tropicals from Mrs. Victor Alfaro.

Greenhouse improvements included installation of a
cooling system in two greenhouses to increase the survival
rate of rare species orchids, an underground irrigation sys-
tem in the nursery area less subject to freezes, and a woven
polyethylene weed barrier in the cutting garden.

Plant displays were renovated in permanent galleries at
the Freer Gallery of Art, Museum of American Art, and
Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars. His-
toric and educational plants were specially grown for
Mammals in the Limelight, AditiA Celebration of Life,
and the Arts of South Asia.

The Grounds Management Division planted in Mall
environs 75,452 flowering annuals and 16,000 pansies,
produced by the Greenhouse Nursery Division, and

130

50,000 spring bulbs. Other grounds improvements
included three new flower beds at the National Museum of
American History; the perennial border at the National
Museum of Natural History; new sod, cafe planters, and _
ten Zelkova trees for the National Air and Space Museum; |
and four new planters on the Hirshhorn Museum and
Sculpture Garden plaza. Brass labels were attached to per-
manent plantings. |

Susan Gurney became the librarian for the horticultural
library collection of approximately 2,000 bound volumes,
15,000 trade catalogs, and 180 serial titles. Nineteen vol-
umes donated by Ikebana International Inc., Washington,
D.C., Chapter No. 1, are excellent references for the
Quadrangle Project.

Requests for assistance with research, publications,
exhibitions, lectures, and tours have increased. In 1985,
twenty-eight groups toured the plant collections. Visitors
included Supreme Court Justice Sandra Day O’Connor
and her staff; Mrs. Bajpai, wife of the Ambassador of
India; The American Association of University Presidents’
Partners; and members of the Center for Plant Conserva-
tion. In association with the Smithsonian Resident Associ-
ate Program, fall and spring tours of the greenhouse and a
special program on historic holiday decorations were
arranged. All Smithsonian staff and volunteers were
invited to an open house on May 19, 1985 at the green-
house complex.

The purchase of a 35-millimeter slide storage cabinet
was made possible by a gift from the Women’s Committee
of the Smithsonian Associates. Slides depicting various
horticultural subjects were loaned to the U.S. National
Arboretum, Kennedy Center, Northern Virginia Regional
Parks, Cooper-Hewitt Museum, Office of Public Affairs,
and others. Nineteen illustrations from the collection were
selected by the Smithsonian Business Management Office
for the Smithsonian Engagement Calendar 1986.

Director James R. Buckler delivered the following lec-
tures: “Frolicking in the Garden,” on nineteenth-century
garden pastimes, at the Margaret Strong Museum in Roch-
ester, New York; and “Shinnecock Hills: An Art Colony in
a Garden.” depicting late nineteenth-century landscape
development on Long Island, at the Amon Carter Museum
of Western Art in Fort Worth, Texas.

Sally Tomlinson has continued to work regularly as a
volunteer, assisting in the management of the artifact col-
lections.

James Buckler served on the Board of Directors of the
National Colonial Farm, the Kentucky Botanical Gardens,
the Horticultural Advisory Board of Grey Towers, and
Friends of Rockwood Museum.

August A. Dietz IV, manager of the greenhouse-nursery
complex, served on the Board of Directors of the Azalea
Society of America.

Lauranne Nash served as cochairperson of the Smithso-
nian Institution Internship Council during most of fiscal
year 1985.

Seven interns were selected to participate in the horticul-
tural program during 1985. A curriculum was designed for
individual interns to maximize their educational back-
ground and special interests.

Plant production for the Quadrangle Project is under-
way and testing for light requirements is being conducted.
Major trees for the Enid A. Haupt Garden have been
selected and the garden furnishings are undergoing resto-
ration.

The office’s garden furnishings collection, which
includes many labeled pieces, was featured in an article in
the Washington Post. Twenty-four pieces were loaned to
the Historical Society of Talbot County for their major
exhibition The Art of Gardening—Maryland Landscapes
and the American Garden Aesthetic, 1730-1930. James
Buckler and Kathryn Meehan coauthored an essay on
nineteenth-century American horticulture for the exhibi-
tion catalogue.

The public displays of living plant collections and horti-
cultural artifacts—the Fragrant Garden, the north foyer of
the National Museum of Natural History, the rotunda of
the Arts and Industries Building, and “A Victorian Horti-
cultural Extravaganza”—continue to delight visitors. For
the fourth year volunteers Dorothy High and Bruce Buntin
rotated and groomed the many rare and unusual plants in
the “Horticultural Extravaganza.”

At the request of the Smithsonian Institution Visitor
Information Center a plan for easier visitor access into the
Smithsonian Institution Building from the north side is
being developed. A palm court concept has been drafted
for the South Tower Room, to open into the Haupt Gar-
den.

The office completed a preliminary plan for a new
Educational/Research Center at the United States Sol-
diers’ and Airmen’s Home. This new Center would com-
bine the current facilities with new educational, research,
and storage space to accommodate the growth of the
Office of Horticulture. The office plans to solicit gifts to
support this long-range project.

Office of Museum Programs

The Office of Museum Programs (OMP), directed by Jane
R. Glaser, provides a variety of training, information, and
advisory services for the professional development of
museum personnel and their institutions throughout the
United States and abroad.

The training program, coordinated by Mary Lynn Perry,
sponsors an annual schedule of twenty-five to thirty inten-
sive short-term workshops on current museum practices
which provide mid-career training opportunities for
museum professionals. Faculty for the workshops are
drawn primarily from the Institution’s staff; the subject
matter presented covers a broad range of topics on
museum operations.

During 1985, over 430 museum professionals enrolled in
the workshop series; participants came from all types and
sizes of museums in forty-two states and the District of
Columbia, and from ten foreign countries. New subjects
presented in 1985 were “Management of Volunteer Pro-
grams,’ “The Museum as a Learning Resource,” “Horticul-
ture for Zoos: Habitat and Environment,” “Computers in
Collections Management and Research,’ “Integrated Pest
Management for Museums,” and “Developing and Manag-
ing Effective Internship Programs.”

A national survey to assess museum training needs in the
U.S. was conducted during the year; the results are being
analyzed for future workshop planning.

Similar training services are offered to museum profes-
sionals at locations throughout the United States and
abroad in cooperation and cosponsorship with local host
museums and museum-related organizations. Eight on-site
workshops attended by 187 museum professionals from
sixteen states and two foreign countries were presented.
Cosponsors included the Virginia Association of Muse-
ums, the Minnesota Historical Society, and the New York
Regional Conference of Historical Agencies.

By invitation from the Ministry of Culture of Pakistan
and with support from Smithsonian Foreign Currency
funds, two three-day workshops entitled “Preventive Care
of Collections” were conducted in Islamabad and Karachi.
Fifty persons from museums and archives in Lahore,
Peshawar, Hyderabad, and Moenjodaro, as well as from
Islamabad and Karachi, were enthusiastic and responsive
participants, all of whom regarded the workshops as very
productive and beneficial.

The Internships in Museum Practices Program, coordi-
nated by Raymond Branham and Bruce C. Craig, arranges
for students and museum professionals to be placed in
Smithsonian museums and offices for training in collec-
tions management, exhibit design and production, regis-
tration, curatorial, and other museum practices. In 1985,

131
seventy-five persons from the United States and abroad
took part in the program while another twenty-seven
interns participated in the third annual OMP Museum
Careers Seminar Series.

The Visiting Professionals Program schedules short-
term visits (one-month or less) for museum professionals
to meet with Smithsonian staff for concentrated discussion
and consultation and to examine collections. Visits are
designed to fulfill the requests and meet specific needs of
the participants. Thirty-seven visitors from museums in
the U.S. and eighty-six from museums and related organi-
zations in Africa, Asia, Europe, and Central and South
America took part in these activities.

Since 1983, OMP has joined with the Multicultural
Bilingual High School in Washington, D.C., to offer
internships in a variety of operational and program areas
of the Smithsonian to high school students. Positive evalu-
ations from students and supervisors alike have encour-
aged the continuation of this program. Twenty-six
students were involved in 1985.

The Audiovisual Program, coordinated by Laura T. Sch-
neider, produces and distributes slide/ cassette productions
and videotapes on subjects of interest to the museum pro-
fession. Emphasizing care of collections, the topics also
include museum interpretation, the visitor, museum
careers, security, historic preservation, and folklife.
Printed materials supplement the audiovisual presenta-
tions. Programs placed in distribution during 1985
included a slide/cassette program, Photographic Negatives
in the Juley Collection: Their Care and Preservation, and a
videotape, Outdoor Sculpture: Preserving the Hirshhorn
Museum's Collection. In 1985, 139 slide programs and 186
videotapes were loaned to museums, institutions, and indi-
viduals; seventy-five programs were purchased by users
wishing to have them available for convenient reference.
Two productions received awards: Tribal Archives, a
slide/cassette program, received a Gold Screen Award
from the National Association of Government Communi-
cators, and the videotape Museum Accessibility for the
Visually Impaired Visitor was given a Merit Award by
Superfest ’85, a media festival for programs on disabilities.

The Native American Museums Program (NAMP),
under the direction of Nancy J. Fuller, was very active in
1985. It established residencies at the Smithsonian for
eleven Indian museum professionals, developed a new
resource list, American Indian Collections In European
Museums and Archives, published The Proceedings of the
1983 NAMP National Workshop for Tribal Museum
Directors and Administrators, and compiled fifty reference
packets on museum operations, legislation, and career

132

development in response to inquiries from twenty-five
states, Canada, New Zealand, and Australia. The pro-
gram continued to distribute its NAMP newsletter to a
mailing list of more than 1,000. Planning for collaborative
projects was also begun with the British Columbia Muse-
ums Association, the Burke and Makah Museums, and
with the National Archives.

The Kellogg Project, supported by a grant from the
W. K. Kellogg Foundation to “expand the educational role
of museums,” emphasized the development of the demon-
stration programs at its twelve “full participation” muse-
ums and organized workshops and seminars in San Anto-
nio; the Bronx; San Francisco; Tahlequah, Oklahoma; and
Washington, D.C. Two sessions of professional residencies
held in 1985 brought fourteen senior museum education
professionals to the Smithsonian. During ten-day study
periods, the residents met with Smithsonian staff and area
professionals to exchange ideas on a variety of issues
affecting museum education. A three-year extension of the
Kellogg Project is anticipated for fiscal years 1986, 1987,
and 1988 with a major emphasis on evaluation and dissem-
ination of information obtained during prior activities. All
aspects of this program are coordinated by Phillip Spiess II.

The Museum Reference Center, a branch of the
Smithsonian Institution Libraries specializing in museolog-
ical subjects, answered over 1,500 inquiries from museum
professionals, researchers, and students in the United
States and thirty-six foreign countries. Over 600 persons
visited the Center to make use of its comprehensive and
specialized collections. The Librarian, Catherine Scott,
contributed to the “Library Shelf List” of the Museum
Studies Journal and also to the Dictionarium Museologi-
cum, a UNESCO/ICOM publishing project, in prepara-
tion for the fifth edition. The Center published seventeen
new bibliographies on museum subjects, bringing the total
to sixty, and three quarterly issues of Muse World, a bulle-
tin advising on recent publications of interest to museums.

Since 1979, OMP and the United States Information
Agency (USIA) have cosponsored a project, “Education in
Museums,” which makes it possible for foreign museum
professionals to visit the United States to study educational
programming in museums here. The success of this project
led to expansion of the subject matter in 1982 to include
“Museum Administration” and “Collections: Manage-
ment, Preventive Care, and Conservation Awareness” in
1985. In 1985, this last-named program involved thirteen
participants from Bahrain, Columbia, Egypt, Fiji, Indone-
sia, Jordan, Kuwait, Mexico, Nepal, Pakistan, United
Kingdom, Jerusalem, and Yap. The group toured muse-
ums in six major cities in the United States and discussed

practices and problems of collections management and
conservation with American colleagues. OMP has now
been requested by USIA to develop and coordinate a
fourth project (museum management for Spanish-speaking
museum professionals) for 1986.

Office of the Registrar

Primary responsibilities of the Office of the Registrar
involve reviewing collections management policies devel-
oped by Smithsonian museums and monitoring compli-
ance with those policies. The Office is also concerned with
procedures used for accessioning, cataloguing, and deac-
cessioning objects and specimens in the collections and
with the inventory processes in the museums. For most of
1985, during a lengthy nationwide recruiting program
made necessary by the retirement of the former Director of
the Office, Mr. Philip Leslie, many of these responsibilities
were assumed by the Office of the Assistant Secretary for
Museum Programs. Basic documents governing the gen-
eral policies which serve to guide activities in all collecting
bureaus of the Institution were revised and reissued and
the inventory process was monitored through periodic
communication with responsible parties in each of the
museums.

133
Smithsonian Institution Archives

The Smithsonian Institution Archives (SIA) is responsible
for physical care of and intellectual access to records and
proceedings of the Smithsonian. These, and donated
papers of curators and scientific staff, and records of pro-
fessional societies, are valuable sources for scholarly
research in history, science, art, and the humanities.

A highlight of 1985 was receipt of archives of the
National Museum of American Art, including official
records of the old National Collection of Fine Arts, some
from the late nineteenth century. Their acquisition is a
major extension of the archival program into the art muse-
ums.

Two new guides to collections were published. William
R. Massa, Jr., was author of the Guide to the Charles D.
Walcott Collection and William E. Cox produced the
Guide to the Papers of Charles P. Alexander. In 1985, the
Archives prepared its first archival exhibition, the
Smithsonian—Roosevelt African Expedition, 1909-1910,
from materials in papers of Edmund E. Heller, who
accompanied Roosevelt to collect specimens for the
Smithsonian. A second exhibition, Notable Smithsonian
Women, honors early figures such as Mary Jane Rathbun,
Mary Vaux Walcott, and Lucile Quarry Mann. All future
exhibitions will draw on the Archives’ collections.

Basic Archival Program

During fiscal year 1985 the Archives continued to appraise
records of the Institution and to select and care for those of
permanent historic value. Records were surveyed at the
Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute (STRI) and the
Registrar’s Office at the National Zoological Park (NZP).
In the National Museum of Natural History (NMNH),
surveys were completed in the Security Office, Department
of Paleobiology, and Department of Vertebrate Zoology.
Survey work at the Anacostia Neighborhood Museum
began in the Office of the Director and was completed in
several offices of the Freer Gallery of Art. At the National
Museum of American Art (NMAA), surveys were com-
pleted in the Office of the Registrar and begun in the Cura-
torial Department.

In central administrative offices, surveys were com-
pleted in the Office of Museum Programs and the Office of
the Director of Facilities Services. Disposition schedules
were established for records of the Office of Plant Services.

Discovered in the Museum of Natural History and
brought into the Archives was an album of photographs of
nineteenth-century naturalists, the J. Victor Carus album,
including images of Charles Darwin, Louis Agassiz, and

134

Thomas Henry Huxley. Among manuscript collections
accessioned this year were papers of Bruce C. Heezen,
Robert Silberglied, S. Stillman Berry, Thomas Soderstrom,
and Porter M. Kier. Two professional societies joined a
growing number that have named SIA as official reposi-
tory for their records; accessions were received this year
from the Animal Behavior Society and the American Soci- |
ety of Zoologists. |

During the year the Archives loaned materials for sev-
eral exhibitions, including one organized by the Joseph
and Margaret Muscarelle Museum of Art at the College of
William and Mary entitled Modernism in America: 1937-
1941: Four Architectural Competitions. It includes draw-
ings submitted for the 1939 Smithsonian Gallery of Art
competition. Also loaned this year was a notebook of
Constantine S. Rafinesque, as part of an exhibition held at
the Lafayette Natural History Museum in Louisiana to
commemorate the birth of John James Audubon. The
Archives also contributed several items to accompany the
loan of a Miss Japan Doll from NMNH for an exhibition
in Japan about women and the Second World War. Archi-
tectural drawings from SIA of the Natural History Build-
ing were displayed in the NMNH 7sth anniversary
celebration.

Programs and Projects

The on-line library and archives catalogues of the Smithso-
nian Institution Bibliographic Information System (SIBIS)
became available in the Archives in 1985, and work con-
tinues to prepare the archives catalogue for use throughout
the Institution. SIA hosted a meeting of Washington, D.C.,
archivists on the topic of SIBIS. Archives volunteer Mary
D’Imperio completed a user’s manual for the on-line cata-
logues. Austin Moller, an intern from Portland State Uni-
versity, and Donna Webber, an intern from the Massa-
chusetts Institute of Technology, studied and reported

on various aspects of SIBIS, adding to the working
knowledge of the system.

Other interns during the year included Dan Steven Sher-
burne, also from Portland State, who processed the C.
Lewis Gazin Papers, and Catherine McGeehan, from
George Washington University, who worked on the Col-

The Smithsonian-Roosevelt African Expedition of rg09-1910
was the subject of an exhibition in the Smithsonian Archives.
Theodore Roosevelt and his son Kermit are shown here proudly
surveying a Cape Buffalo destined for the United States National
Museum.
lected Letters on Ethnology and the papers of Ernest P.
Walker. Margaret Stevens, intern from the University of
Virginia, is assisting with the SIA photograph survey
project.

The photograph survey project continued surveying and
describing the photographic holdings of the Smithsonian.
During the year the staff located almost two million pho-
tographs in 518 collections in the National Museum of
American History and the Cooper-Hewitt Museum.
Reports were written to aid collection management and
research access. Each collection is described in a survey
report on the provenance, title, size, subject contents,
physical condition, arrangement, processes and photogra-
phers represented, and usage policies. This serves as a
basic guide for staff and researchers. Nearly two thousand
pages of survey descriptions have been produced, supple-
mented by summaries to the bureau directors on the col-
lections.

Oral History

Oral history interviewing with Smithsonian luminaries
continued in 1985. Interviews completed and transcribed
during the year brought the collection total to some two
hundred fifty hours of recording accompanied by some
forty-five hundred pages of typewritten transcript. The

G. Arthur Cooper, T. Dale Stewart, Fred L. Whipple, A.
Gilbert Wright, and Association of Curators interviews
became available for research use. A 16-mm film of the
Smithsonian Institution-Firestone Expedition to Liberia in
1940 was transferred to videotape, and a taped narration
was synchronized to the visual images. A Seidell grant was
obtained to further this work.

Lectures and Conferences

The Archives lecture series ended its second year of presen-
tations on a range of topics from architecture to anthro-
pology. USGS scientist Ellis L. Yochelson began the series
with a talk on “Seventy-five Years of the Natural History
Building.” Succeeding lectures concerned the National
Museum, John Xantus, and the history of geologic map-
ping in England. Ales Hrdlicka was the topic of the final
lectures of the year, presented by T. Dale Stewart and
Michael Blakey.

Reference Service

During the year more than two thousand reference inqui-
ries were received, a substantial increase over last year. A
number of publications based on research done at SIA
were produced. Among these were Robert W. Rydell, All
the World’s A Fair: Visions of Empire at American Inter-
national Expositions, 1876-1916 (Chicago: University of
Chicago Press, 1985); Ann H. Zwinger, “A Hungarian in
Baja,” in Audubon 87 (1985); and Arthur P. Molella, “At
the Edge of Science: Joseph Henry, ‘Visionary Theorizers}
and the Smithsonian Institution,” in Annals of Science 41
(1984).
Smithsonian Institution Libraries

Smithsonian Institution Libraries (SIL) continued to serve
the Institution and public through: (1) support of Smithso-
nian research, curatorial, and other program activities; (2)
direct participation in creation of the national biblio-
graphic data base; and (3) programs for publications, exhi-
bitions, loan, and information services. The SIL is a
member of the Association of Research Libraries and is
organized on the model common in major North Ameri-
can universities. The Libraries is divided into three opera-
tional divisions: Automated Systems, Collections
Management, and Research Services and has a centralized
Planning and Administration Office.

The SIL collections of approximately 980,000 volumes,
including over 20,000 serial subscriptions, are available to
Smithsonian and other scholars through a system of four-
teen branch libraries spread over thirty-five locations
throughout the Washington, D.C., area and in New York
City, Cambridge, Massachusetts, and the Republic of Pan-
ama. The most recent branch library opened in fiscal year
1985 at the Office of Horticulture.

The SIL budgets represent two percent of all Smithso-
nian expenditures, federal and trust, exclusive of auxiliary
enterprises. During fiscal year 1985, the Libraries received
three grants from the Atherton Seidell Endowment Fund;
the SIL was also awarded additional money to enhance
research support and purchase additional materials. Per-
sonnel resources of the SIL were reinforced through the
dedicated service of seventy-three volunteers who assist in
all units of the Libraries.

During the past year, three reports by consultants
describing critical issues facing the Libraries were com-
pleted: a conceptual study on library planning and spaces,
a collections preservation report, and a security manage-
ment survey. These studies address matters of importance
to future operations of the Libraries: staffing, security, col-
lections funding, and deteriorating collections, and each
study presents concrete recommendations. Other planning
this year included consultation with an architectural firm
on SIL’s immediate need for rental space so as to move and
preserve collections which are badly housed.

Automated Systems Division

Sophisticated electronic technologies continue to be funda-
mental to SIL operations and planning in information
transfer and resource sharing. The Libraries’ on-line cata-
logue has, in its first full year of operation, become the
main key to SIL holdings. It has been well received by
users, and its rapid-search capabilities have important

“Sp L Yeemelnial Cea of Me. 4
Cedpn ¢ mall CA TL Sige
ean om, i 2

b, iit
BD Gite. Mr be ¢é WMS ah,
Ya «A

| “G
C.. 19

2g 7

er

ee ee Ae ESR SS a ER eee

Lekker Sy

Sir Henry Englefield’s drawing of a lunar eclipse (1770), a manu-
script from the Dibner Library in the History of Science and
Technology of the Smithsonian Institution Libraries, is listed in
Manuscripts of the Dibner Collection, published by the Smithso-
nian Institution Libraries in 1985.

advantages to researchers. Currently containing over
260,000 records with new cataloguing being added daily,
SIL’s on-line catalogue can be accessed from more than
eighty SIL terminals as well as others located across the
Institution, and by dial-in via computer-
telecommunication links. The automated Acquisitions
subsystem which requests books and journals on line and
communicates all acquisitions financial data to the Institu-
tion’s accounting office became operational this year. SIL,
collaborating with Geac, the manufacturer of SIL’s auto-
mated library system, is developing a sophisticated system
with features designed for use by both the French Bib-
liothéque Nationale and the Smithsonian Institution. Sey-
eral enhanced capabilities and broadened functions are
being planned and tested in this cooperative project. Using
Online Computer Library Center (OCLC), SIL continues

137
its conversion of catalogue cards into machine readable
on-line records. This year a significant number of natural
history records were converted and the former Bureau of
American Ethnology (BAE) library records are now being
upgraded and changed into machine-readable format.
When completed, it will be possible to merge all SIL
anthropology materials into one sequence.

Collections Management Division

The Acquisitions unit was transferred from the Automated
Systems Division to the Collections Management Division
in May, thereby consolidating the management functions
of selecting, purchasing, and exchanging publications with
those of binding, book restoration, and preservation of the
collections. This unit acts as the purchasing agent for all
library materials and all books purchased for the Institu-
tion. In June the Libraries launched a Preservation Plan-
ning Program, supported by the Association of Research
Libraries, which will produce documentary evidence of the
physical condition of the collections and recommendations
for new preservation policies and programs.

The African Art Branch Library, scheduled to open in
the Quadrangle, received an increased acquisitions budget
to purchase monographs and serial titles as well as rare
items relating to Africa. The Special Collections Branch
Library added thirty items, including works on the history
of museums and of collecting, and of scientific instrumen-
tation. Several bequests during fiscal year 1985 added
depth to the fields of chemistry and metals analysis, physi-
cal anthropology, and ceramics and glass.

Research Services Division

The fourteen branch libraries of this division provide refer-
ence support to Smithsonian curators and other staff as
well as to a broad range of users from outside the Institu-
tion. Assisted by an expanded range of bibliographic tools,
the division was able to offer more prompt and reliable
service this year in its reference support to users. The SIL
on-line catalogue was used extensively in all branch
libraries, more SIL staff was trained to search commercial
on-line data bases such as DIALOG and NEXIS, and tele-
facsimile equipment has now been installed in four
branches. Despite the handicap of limited collections
which forces the SIL to go to outside services for forty per-
cent of requests, the reference staffs logged a remarkable
record of answering an average 619 reference questions a

138

day. To serve research needs which cannot be met from its
own holdings, SIL borrowed 17,342 volumes this year. A
study conducted with grant funds demonstrated unequivo-
cally that commercial document delivery services could
provide a significantly larger fill rate and an improved
turn-around-time compared to traditional interlibrary loan
methods.

Planning and Administration Office

A major renovation project begun this year will strengthen
the Natural History Branch Library and clarify the func-
tions and operations of that branch library and that of the
Libraries’ Central Reference and Loan Services (CRLS).
CRLS, which was the focus of this year’s renovation
efforts, will house a modern reference operation when
completed, with an emphasis on on-line data base search-
ing and document delivery.

Public Programs

Outreach activities this year included an Open House to
introduce the new SIL Automated Library System to repre-
sentatives of units throughout the Institution. The SIL
hosted several meetings, including a national meeting for
Geac users from fifty major libraries, a planning meeting
for developing an authority control system for SIUs Auto-
mated Library System, a meeting of the Washington Book
Conservators, and a visit from a Smithsonian Associates
tour group. As part of the Institution’s Festival of India
celebration, the SIL presented Panorama of India: An
Exhibition of Books, Prints and Manuscripts, dating from
1698 to 1898, which was accompanied by an illustrated
brochure. Other exhibitions held in the Dibner Library
this year were European Roots of American Pharmacy and
Recent Acquisitions in SIL. SIL produced two new vol-
umes in its Research Guide Series: African Art: A Biblio-
graphic Guide by Janet L. Stanley, and Manuscripts of the
Dibner Collection. The latter is an illustrated volume list-
ing 1,614 manuscripts in the history of western science and
technology from the Middle Ages to the present which are
available to users in the Dibner Library of the Special Col-
lections Branch Library. The SIL, funded by the Smithso-
nian Foreign Currency Program (SFCP), administers its
Translation Publishing Program which has made available
196 significant scientific and cultural works to libraries and
scholars around the world since the program began in
1959. In March 1985 thirty-five proposals for translated

publications were received from twenty-three departments
of the Institution and evaluated and ranked by a Review
Committee composed of representatives from four of the
Institution’s museums. In August the Libraries received a
further SFCP grant of 300,000, supplementing a grant of
the same amount awarded the previous year. The SIL’s par-
ticipation in a number of international projects this year
included cooperating in the production of the Dictiona-
rium Museologicum, a multilingual glossary of 2,066
museum-related terms which is being jointly sponsored by
UNESCO and the International Council of Museums.
Director Maloy assembled a group of distinguished muse-
ologists in June to serve as the Ad Hoc American Review
Committee for this proposed publication which is sched-
uled to be published in 1986. Silvio A. Bedini delivered a
paper at an international conference which he helped to
organize at the University of Rome on the history of muse-
ums. An Israeli librarian began a year’s internship in the
Book Conservation Laboratory and an SIL librarian went
abroad to work in a Paris library while his Fulbright
exchange partner came to the SIL from France and spent
nine months rotating through five units of the Libraries.
Visitors to the SIL included three groups of librarians from
countries around the world who came to observe SIL oper-
ations.

Smithsonian Institution Traveling
Exhibition Service

Ebla to Damascus: Art and Archaeology of Ancient Syria,
an exhibition of 281 objects that span 10,000 years of his-
tory, began its tour in September 1985 at the Walters Art
Gallery in Baltimore, Maryland. Organized by the
Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service
(SITES) and the Directorate-General of Antiquities, Syrian
Arab Republic, the exhibition marks the first time that
antiquities from Syria have been shown in North America.
Financial support for the exhibition was provided by an
anonymous sponsor, the Arabian American Oil Company
(Aramco), Shell Oil Companies Foundation, Inc., and
Mobil Oil Corporation. SITES received an indemnity from
the Federal Council on the Arts and Humanities for the
loan objects. The J. Paul Getty Trust provided funding
support for SITES’ publication of the major exhibition cat-
alogue. SITES also published a full-color poster, five color
postcards, and an interpretive booklet.

In addition to Ebla to Damascus, another major interna-
tional exhibition that began its tour in 1985 was Three
Centuries of German Painting and Drawing from the Col-
lections of the Wallraf-Richartz Museum, Cologne. This
exhibition opened in September at the Indianapolis
Museum of Art with a full complement of representatives
from the Federal Republic of Germany and the Wallraf-
Richartz Museum. The exhibition of ninety-two works is
supplemented by a fully-illustrated catalogue and full-
color poster, both published by SITES. Other international
exhibitions included Power and Gold: Jewelry from Indo-
nesia, Malaysia and the Philippines, Peonies of Greece:
Myth, Science and Art, and Mouton Rothschild: Paintings
for the Labels.

A total of twenty-four new exhibitions began tours in
fiscal year 1985, and a large percentage of these were devel-
oped with Smithsonian bureaus. Exploring Microspace
and Beauties of the Coral Reef were organized with the
National Museum of Natural History. From the collec-
tions of the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden,
and in collaboration with curator Frank Gettings, SITES
organized Artists and Models and Genre Scenes. Gallery
brochures were published for both of these exhibitions.
From the National Portrait Gallery, SITES is circulating
Baseball Immortals: The Photographs of Charles Martin
Conlon, 1905-1935, Mathew Brady Photographs from the
National Portrait Gallery's Meserve Collection, and Ath-
letes and Heroes: Portraits from the Time Collection at the
National Portrait Gallery. America’s Space Truck proved
to be such a popular exhibition that a second version was
introduced this year, again prepared with the National Air
and Space Museum. The Laser at 25 was organized with
the National Museum of American History. New Vistas:

139
American Art Pottery 1880-1930 from the Cooper-Hewitt
Collections and Sharing Traditions: Five Black Artists in
19th Century America from the Collections of the National
Museum of American Art began their national tours in
1985. Two major decorative arts exhibitions began their
tours at the Renwick Gallery: Newcomb Pottery: An
Enterprise for Southern Women, 1895-1940, organized
with Newcomb College of Tulane University, and Material
Evidence: New Color Techniques in Handmade Furniture,
organized with Formica Corporation and The Gallery at
Workbench.

Among the more innovative exhibitions for 1985 was
The Laser at 25, which included participatory displays as
well as educational materials that approach new technol-
ogy head-on. A SITES-developed educational computer
software program on light and laser light will accompany
the exhibition. A longer, computer assisted instructional
program will be developed for home and school markets.
A hands-on gallery kit, guidelines for teacher orientation,
and other assistance help bring the exhibition alive for
nonscientific audiences while reinforcing its themes. The
exhibition was produced with the cooperation of the Insti-
tute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and the Opti-
cal Society of America.

SITES continued to arrange for foreign showings of
exhibitions. Spectacular Vernacular and Galapagos: Born
of the Sea traveled to Australia; Good as Gold: Alternative
Materials in American Jewelry was circulated to five coun-
tries in South America by the U.S. Information Agency;
America’s Space Truck was shown in Peru; A Cartoon His-
tory of U.S. Foreign Policy was viewed in Spain; Music
and Dance in Papua New Guinea and An Age of Gold:
Three Centuries of Paintings from Old Ecuador were
shown in Haiti; and fourteen exhibitions were booked by
museums and institutions in Canada.

Preparations for the May 1986 opening of Hollywood:
Legend and Reality began this year with a June 1985 press
conference that received wide media coverage. Among
other major exhibitions planned for 1986-87 are The Paris
Style 1900: Art Nouveau Bing, Gauguin and His Circle in
Brittany—The Prints, Surrealist Art from the Hirshhorn
Museum and Sculpture Garden, and Artificial Reefs:
Expanding on Nature’s Ideas.

A monumental project for fiscal year 1986 will be the
planning and organization of the inaugural exhibition for
the International Gallery. Entitled Making Generations:
Birthrites and the Roots of Becoming, the exhibition will
draw upon the life cycle anthropology and art collections
in the Smithsonian collections to present a comprehensive,

140

yet unique, insight to the cultural interpretations of this
universal experience.

Exhibitions Beginning Tours October 1, 1984, through
September 30, 1985

America’s Space Truck (II)

Artists and Models: Portraits from the Hirshhorn Museum
and Sculpture Garden

Athletes and Heroes: Portraits from the Time Collection at
the National Portrait Gallery

Audubon: Science into Art

Baseball Immortals: The Photographs of Charles Martin
Conlon, 1905-1935

Beauties of the Coral Reef (II)

The Dog Observed: 1844-1983

Ebla to Damascus: Art and Archaeology of Ancient Syria

Eva Zeisel: Designer for Industry

Exploring Microspace

Genre Scenes: Works on Paper from the Hirshhorn
Museum and Sculpture Garden

Homage to Amanda: 200 Years of American Quilts from
the Collection of Edwin Binney 3rd and Gail Binney-
Winslow

The Laser at 25

Material Evidence: New Color Techniques in Handmade
Furniture

Mathew Brady Photographs from the National Portrait
Gallery’s Meserve Collection

Mouton Rothschild: Paintings for the Labels

Music and Dance in Papua New Guinea

Newcomb Pottery: An Enterprise for Southern Women,
1895-1940

New Vistas: American Art Pottery 1880-1930 from the
Cooper-Hewitt Collections of Greece: Myth, Science
and Art

Power and Gold: Jewelry from Indonesia, Malaysia and
the Philippines

Radiance and Virtue: The R. Norris Shreve Collection of
Chinese Jades

Recent American Works on Paper

Sharing Traditions: Five Black Artists in 19th Century
America from the Collections of the National Museum
of American Art

Three Centuries of German Painting and Drawing from
the Collections of the Wallraf-Richartz Museum,
Cologne
Tours for Period October 1, 1984, through September 30,

1985
Number of bookings 365
Number of states served (including Washing-

ton, D.C.) 47
Estimated audience 8 million
Exhibitions listed in last Update

(catalogue of SITES exhibitions) 113

Exhibitions produced for tour during this year 24

Left to right, Leo Durocher, Bill Terry, and Lefty Gomez at the opening reception for Baseball Immortals, 1905-1935: The Photographs of
Charles Martin Conlon, an exhibition organized by the National Portrait Gallery and circulated by the Smithsonian Institution Traveling
Exhibition Service.

141
1ce

Serv

Public

for

ecr

S

Assistant

er.

Ril

ph.

al

R

Office of Elementary and
Secondary Education

A firm belief in the power of museum objects as educa-
tional resources is the guiding principle behind the activi-
ties of the Office of Elementary and Secondary Education
(OESE). Through its programs and publications, the
OESE works with other Smithsonian education offices to
foster the educational uses of museums in the Washington,
D.C., area and throughout the nation.

OESE seminars and courses for teachers demonstrate
how to teach by using a museum-oriented approach. In
1985, a series of summer seminars in history, art, and sci-
ence provided professional training for three hundred
Washington, D.C., area educators. In addition, a three-
credit graduate course, “Using Museums to Teach Writ-
ing,” was offered to teachers from across the nation. And
the OESE Regional Workshop program helped museum

ae

XA AAAAKAAS

144

educators build partnerships with school teachers in Oak-
land, California; Charleston, South Carolina; and Oak
Ridge, Tennessee—serving a total of one thousand teach-
ers and twenty-five hundred members of the general pub-
lic.

Publications designed to help teachers use museums and
other community resources with their students are a key
aspect of OESE programming. In addition to its regular
periodicals, Let’s Go to the Smithsonian and Art to Zoo,
the office produced booklets on how to teach from objects
as well as a calendar advertising programs of all the
Smithsonian education departments in the Washington
area. For junior high school readers, Journeys, a pilot
magazine published in cooperation with the Office of Pub
lic Affairs, discusses in depth topics ranging from whales
to rockets.

In addition to continuing its work in making programs
and exhibitions accessible to disabled visitors here at the
Smithsonian, the office is producing a docent training
manual, to be accompanied by a videotape, to encourage
accessibility in museums across the U.S. For learning dis-
abled students, a curriculum kit designed to teach concepts
of historical time is being developed.

During the 1984-85 school year, the OESE expanded its
programs for young people. Its Career Awareness
Program—part of the Institution’s affirmative action
effort—offered summer placements for program grad-
uates, giving them an opportunity to deepen their career
awareness while serving as volunteers or as paid interns.
Its “Exploring the Smithsonian” brought more than fifty-
four hundred D.C. public junior high school students for
curriculum-related museum lessons. And its Summer
Intern Program—which places outstanding high school
graduates in curatorial or technical offices—was for the
first time open to students in Department of Defense
Dependent Schools.

Through teacher training programs, publications, spe-
cial education programs, and precollege training for young
people, the OESE continues to help teachers and students
effectively use museums as educational resources.

Shown here moving a painting is a summer intern of the Office of
Elementary and Secondary Education, who was stationed in the
Registrar’s Office of the National Museum of American Art.
(Photograph by Jon Dicus)
Office of Folklife Programs

The Louisiana program’s Mardi Gras float drew tremendous crowds that came to celebrate the state’s rich folk traditions during this
year’s annual Festival of American Folklife.

Most Americans would agree that the richness of our
nation’s culture lies in the impressive diversity of its people
and in their creative responses to historical conditions.
Research, presentation, and preservation of this cultural
wealth is the goal of the Office of Folklife Programs, an
effort that entails, among other activities, the presentation
of living folk traditions in the context of the National
Museum. Since its inception, the Office of Folklife Pro-
grams has directed its attention to the identification and
study of folk traditions and to the development of methods
for presenting them in a national setting to general audi-
ences. The Office of Folklife Programs also cooperates
with other Smithsonian bureaus in research and exhibition
production; it publishes documentary and analytic studies
and its staff undertakes both exhibition-oriented and
publication-oriented research.

Festival of American Folklife

The Office of Folklife Programs planned and produced the
nineteenth annual Festival of American Folklife which
took place June 26—June 30 and July 3—7, 1985. Cospon-
sored by the National Park Service, this year’s Festival fea-
tured an Indian fair, Louisianan folklife, cultural
conservation, and evening dance parties. Attendance
reached over 1.2 million visitors.

The Smithsonian and the Government of India collabo-
rated to mark the Festival of India 1985-1986 with the pro-
gram, “Mela! An Indian Fair.” The program presented
seventy Indian and Indian-American folk artists who dem-
onstrated an array of India’s performing and ritual arts,
crafts, and festival food traditions in a re-created Indian

145
bazaar. Featured were a Learning Center and the burning
of a 40-foot-tall effigy of the legendary demon Ravana and
his two cohorts.

The rich cultural diversity generated and nourished in
Louisiana, “The Creole State,” was featured with ninety
representatives who presented their music, dance, crafts,
occupations, and foodways. Cajun and Zydeco music,
crawfish boils and Mardi Gras parades were among the
traditions presented.

The Cultural Conservation program explored issues
involved in conserving cultural traditions in the world’s
indigenous, ethnic, and regional communities. Traditions
from around the world—among them Puerto Rican
maskmaking, Guatemalan Mayan Indian weaving,
Kmhmu basketry and Salvadoran, Italian-American, and
Chinese-American cooking were presented.

Special Projects

In cooperation with the National Museum of Natural His-
tory, the Office of Folklife Programs coordinated the exhi-
bition, Aditi: A Celebration of Life. The Evans Gallery,
redesigned to simulate a rural Indian environment, hosted
2,000 objects of Indian folk art, as well as forty artisans
and performers demonstrating their traditional arts. Aditi
was accompanied by the publication of a catalogue
designed by Daphne Shuttleworth and coauthored by
Richard Kurin, both of the Office of Folklife Programs,
and published by Smithsonian Institution Press.

Research

Research, writing, and production continued on mono-
graphs and accompanying films included in the Smithso-
nian Folklife Studies series. Established in 1978, this
innovative series couples book-length monographs with
accompanying ethnographic films to document and ana-
lyze particular traditions more fully than would be possi-
ble with either medium used alone. The District of
Columbia Fire Fighters’ Project: A Case Study in Occupa-
tional Folklife by Robert McCarl, a monograph which
developed from research for a 1976 Festival program, was
published this year.

The Stone Carvers, a film by Marjorie Hunt and Paul
Wagner, was awarded an Academy Award for best short
documentary for 1985. The film, highlighting carvers at the
Washington Cathedral, grew out of 1978 and 1979 Festival
programs.

146

Office of Public Affairs

The Office of Public Affairs (OPA) acquaints the public,
via the communications media and other means, with the
Smithsonian’s research, its many exhibitions and activities,
and its permanent collections. The office also oversees
Institution-wide information programs.

During the year, the OPA coordinated publicity for the
Smithsonian’s participation in the nationwide Festival of
India, working with the Embassy of India and the Indo-
U.S. Subcommission on Education and Culture, preparing
background materials and photographs for media distribu-
tion, collaborating with each bureau featuring Indian exhi-
bitions and performances, arranging a news conference to
launch the Festival of India at the Smithsonian, and pro-
ducing public service announcements for television and
radio.

In addition, two public affairs writers traveled in India
for six weeks to study India’s past, present, and future.
Their firsthand account became a special thirteen-part
series on India Today for the Smithsonian News Service,
the Institution’s free, monthly feature-story service for
daily and weekly newspapers. These stories were widely
used by the media, while articles on the Festival’s Aditi
exhibition and the Mela, or Indian fair, at the annual
Folklife Festival were numerous.

The Smithsonian’s image overseas was broadened and
enhanced by a five-part series on the Institution’s museums
in the June and July issues of Paris Match magazine. The
OPA arranged interviews for the Paris Match reporter and
photographer. Hundreds of other journalists were assisted
with information and interviews by public affairs staff.

In fiscal year 1985, the OPA issued more than five hun-
dred news releases on Smithsonian activities. The OPA
also provided publicity assistance to other Smithsonian
bureaus and offices. The OPA planned a major publicity
campaign for the Anacostia Neighborhood Museum’s
exhibition, The Renaissance: Black Arts of the Twenties,
focusing on the explosion of black creativity in Harlem
and elsewhere. The office helped publicize the opening of
the new Archives of American Art facility in Los Angeles
and other AAA projects. Publicity prepared on the discov-
ery of the world’s deepest plant by scientists at the
National Museum of Natural History led to extensive

A member of the Bishnois community in the desert state of Raja-
sthan in western India proudly demonstrates his beard-combing
technique. Such folkways and traditions, as well as space-age
topics, were included in a thirteen-part package bonus edition,
India Today, of the Smithsonian News Service. (Photograph by
Jessie Cohen)

147
media coverage. Public affairs staff members also worked
with the Smithsonian National Associate Lecture and Sem-
inar Program successfully to publicize the pioneering visit
of Smithsonian experts to Tokyo.

The Smithsonian News Service completed its sixth year
of operation with the distribution, in addition to the spe-
cial India Today series, of forty-eight richly illustrated arti-
cles on subjects ranging from the suffragette movement to
the development of the laser. The News Service joined the
electronic age, sending stories from its computer to the
computer of one of the nation’s largest dailies, the Chicago
Tribune. The National Association of Government Com-
municators awarded its first and third prizes in the feature
release category of its nationwide Blue Pencil Contest to
News Service stories.

The OPA expanded its project funded by the Educa-
tional Outreach Fund to encourage visits to the Smithso-
nian by members of minority communities. Emphasizing
the theme, “Explore Your Heritage,” a television public
service announcement produced in fiscal year 1984 featur-
ing Colonel Guion “Guy” Bluford, the first black Ameri-
can astronaut in space, was extended nationally, reaching
all states.

To encourage visits to the Smithsonian from all parts of
the United States, the OPA produced a thirty-second and a
ten-second television public service announcement pack-
age with the theme of the Smithsonian as a repository of
American history to be shared with each new generation.
The spot, narrated by Bob Hope, was close-captioned for
the hearing-impaired audience. A fiscal year 1984
announcement was awarded a Gold Screen Award by the
National Association of Government Communicators.

The OP's publications program led to a new edition of
the Smithsonian’s general information Welcome brochure,
with more than one million copies printed. OPA-prepared
flyers advertising the “Smithsonian World” television pro-
gram were distributed to the public. The quality of
Smithsonian publications was also recognized by outside
organizations. The Torch, the Smithsonian’s monthly staff
newspaper, received the top honor in the Society for Tech-
nical Communications International Publications Compe-
tition. Research Reports, a three-times-a-year periodical
describing Institution-related research in the arts, history,
and science, also received awards from that society and
top honors in the American Association of Museums pub-
lications contest.

148

Office of Smithsonian Symposia
and Seminars

The major program of the Office of Smithsonian Symposia
and Seminars (OSSS) was an unprecedented gathering of
fifty Indian and American scholars, artists, scientists, and
cultural leaders, convened by the Smithsonian as a key
Festival of India program designed to have long-range
influence. “The Canvas of Culture: Rediscovery of the Past
as Adaptation for the Future,’ a public symposium held
June 21-24, 1985, addressed vital issues in nature and cul-
ture in India today. After consultations with a wide range
of individuals in India and the United States engaged in
studying and effecting processes of change, project direc-
tor Carla Borden felt that “emphasizing aspects of contem-
porary Indian life—roots, current experience, and
prospects—would provide a welcome challenge, a unique
and promising opportunity for analysis and learning.” The
encounters between people who ordinarily would not all
meet and talk together (a “dazzling assembly of some of
the best minds in India”) created great excitement and she
has begun editing a book based on the individual contribu-
tions of participants and their interactions during the sym-
posium.

The symposium’s agenda was designed around varied
and complex subjects. The inclusion of religion, the envi-
ronment, the arts, architecture, social trends, and science
and technology in a single program illuminated their inter-
relationships and suggested new frameworks for under-
standing and action. As Smt. Pupul Jayakar, chairman of
the Indian Advisory Committee for the Festival of India
and symposium cochairman (with S. Dillon Ripley), elo-
quently stated: “The symposium . . . seeks to reflect the
changing face of India, for no single symbol or icon can
reveal it. It seeks to ask questions—questions which have
no immediate answers or solutions but need to be held on
the ground of mind, to be pursued relentlessly.” With so
short a time available there could be no expectation of
comprehensiveness; what was presented were selected and
personal points of view from people whose work has been
thoughtful, influential, and provocative. Opening ceremo-
nies featured greetings sent by Prime Minister Rajiv Gan-
dhi and the Honorable J. William Fulbright and a message —
from the White House’s Office of Science and Technology
Policy.

Despite the intensity of the schedule, sessions were well
attended and participants eager to hear one another’s pre-
sentations. One remarked about so many individuals from —
numerous fields of endeavor, without comparing notes |
beforehand, “meshing so effortlessly.” And another asked,
“Why don’t we organize a forum like this in India?”

For the American audience, the symposium demon-
strated that reinvestigating and using the past transcended
Left to right: Raj Rewal, Balkrishna Doshi, and Charles Correa,
three of India’s most distinguished architects, listen to a question
from the audience for “Contemporary Reinterpretation of Tradi-
tional Architecture.” Office of Smithsonian Symposia and Semi-
nars.

the “Raj nostalgia” filling the media in preceding months.
The focus on contemporary Indian culture, especially liter-
ature and painting, was in itself a big step, a U.S. scholar
commented, too little being known about them in the
United States and few recognizing that there is so much to
know. Mr. Ripley was “hopeful that the Festival (would)
bring into American hearts a sense of India’s reality and of
the kinship between our two great Republics.” While
encouraging, increasing, and broadening appreciation of
modern India’s variety and richness through such a pano-
rama of topics and talent, the symposium laid a founda-
tion for ongoing exchanges and discourse to which the
published volume will contribute further.

Nineteen eighty-five brought an additional staff assis-
tant, Mary Rebecca Dodson, modest informal furnishings
for the Margaret Mead Seminar Room (occupying the attic
area over OSSS headquarters), and another deposit into
the Barrick W. Groom Endowment Fund, established for
the office’s general interdisciplinary activities. Among the
latter, of special interest was “Public Enjoyment of Irish
Legacies: Castles, Gardens, and Scientific Wonder,” featur-
ing the Honorable Desmond Guinness and Lord Rosse,
who discussed landmarks such as Birr Castle and its
famous telescope, the world’s largest at that time, built by
local craftsmen in 1842 under the direction of his ancestor,
the “Astronomer Earl.”

Preparations continue for the ninth symposium in the
Smithsonian’s international series tentatively titled “Con-
stitutional Roots, Rights, and Responsibilities.” The sym-
posium is the centerpiece of a major educational program
on civics and representative government based on two
hundred years of history unique to the U.S. As part of the
Bicentennial observance of our Republic’s founding docu-
ment, the project will address the history of ideas, self-
governance, and duties and privileges of citizenship and
draw into its activities students, public citizens, represen-
tatives from the media, business and industry, law and
government, historians and other scholars, and the general
public. The office continues to develop plans for this May
1987 commemoration and projected publications.

149
Office of Telecommunications

Underwater cinematographer Ralph Nelson captures the world
of coral reefs for a Smithsonian documentary, “The Sea: A Quest
for Our Future,” a one-hour film examining newly discovered
coral reefs in the Caribbean and their potential impact on the
world’s food resources. Office of Telecommunications. (Photo-
graph by Nekton Productions)

The Office of Telecommunications (OTC) extends the
Smithsonian’s educational outreach by taking the muse-
ums and their research to the public through distinctive
films, radio, and television programs. In 1985 OTC
reached its largest audiences ever through its ongoing pro-
grams.

The office was actively involved in the promotional
efforts on behalf of three PBS telecasts of OTC films: The
Sea: A Quest for Our Future, our first hour-long film in
late November; The Work of Peace on the Treaty of Paris
in late June; and In Open Air: A Portrait of the American
Impressionists in July. All three programs were broadcast
nationally on the PBS network, affording us audiences in
the millions. Our promotion efforts included press kits for
the PBS stations, press releases, photographs, ad slicks,
and video and radio promo announcements.

Two films were completed which focused on the work of
the Marine Systems Laboratory: a half-hour version of
The Sea produced for the educational market and Blue
Planet, a 15-minute production to accompany the new
marine ecosystems exhibition in NMNH’s Hall of the Sea.

150

The National Endowment for the Arts awarded two
grants to the Theatre Historical Society of America so that
OTC could produce two new versions of the 22-minute
exhibition film, American Picture Palaces: $10,000 for an 8
to 10-minute version to be distributed by the short Film
Showcase to about 2000 theaters throughout the U.S., and
$20,000 for a 28-minute film for PBS television broadcast
and nontheatrical use in schools and libraries. Gene Kelly
hosts the films with some new footage shot at California
movie palaces.

Radio Smithsonian, the half-hour weekly series avail-
able by subscription and now in its sixteenth year, gained
new audiences through last fall’s “American Stories” series-
within-a-series. Broadcast by almost roo stations nation-
wide, the “Cowboys” program from that mini-series was
awarded Best of Competition by the National Association
of Government Communicators. The Radio Smithsonian
series as a whole also won that competition’s Outstanding
Audiovisual Production award. Our other radio project,
Smithsonian Galaxy, the series of 21/2-minute features on
research and exhibition topics, continues to reach audi-
ences over more than 230 stations nationwide and over-
seas.

Here at the Smithsonian . . ., the 2-minute features for -
television that focus on lively people and events around the
Institution, added the four public TV stations of Connecti-
cut to its roster of subscribers. This series also made its
foreign debut through the Smithsonian National Associate
Program which used it as part of its museum presentations
in Japan.

Smithsonian Institution Press

As the Smithsonian Institution Press (SIP) completes yet
another year, the growth and expansion evident in the past
continues at a noteworthy pace. With the quality of publi-
cations at a consistently high level and the number of
awards and honors for individual publications on the
increase, the more quantitative elements, such as total
sales, net returns, and manuscripts published, still con-
tinue to rise. There has been an 8 percent increase in total
jobs done by the Press (322 in fiscal year 1985), a 21 percent
increase in gross sales over fiscal year 1984, and an aston-
ishing 97 percent increase in net earnings for the current
year.

In this year of increases, plans were laid to bring all
three elements of the Press—Smithsonian Books, the
Recordings Division, and the University Press—under one
roof for the first time. This move was designed to com-
plete the consolidation of functions begun two years ago.
The combination of management, production, business,
and marketing elements produces a solid cohesiveness
among Press operations while retaining the advantages of
three distinct and individually administered functional
areas.

Through all of this there has been a strengthening and
consolidation of the core function of the Press: to place the
scholarship, research, collections, and activities of the
Institution before the public by publishing books, record-
ings, and reports. This reflects a successful implementa-
tion of the innovative five-year plan for the Press,
introduced this year by Director Felix Lowe, which fea-
tures major increases in manuscript acquisition spear-
headed by Daniel Goodwin and Kathy Kuhtz, the Press’
new full-time acquisitions editors. Another element of this
plan is the introduction of a Museum Services function,
now in the planning stage, which is expected to produce
annually more than two hundred catalogues, journals,
scholarly monographs, brochures, museum and exhibition
guides, posters, and miscellaneous productions, which are
now the responsibility of the University Press division.

Yet another manifestation of this plan is the recent intro-
duction and expansion of computer technology as an
increasingly vital aspect of the publishing process. For
example, the number of University Press manuscripts
received from authors in electronic form has increased sub-
stantially. One-third of all Contributions and Studies pub-
lications issued this year were edited on Press terminals
using the Word Processor to Typesetting procedures estab-
lished by the Press. These manuscripts were received either
by telecommunications or as compatible disks, and origi-
nated on a wide variety of computer equipment. The Press
continues to concentrate on devising efficient methods for

editing and design of electronic manuscripts; the most
recent development is a system of “tagging” manuscript
elements that blends information management with typo-
graphic markup. The tags are added by the author as the
manuscript is organized and written. After editing 1s
accomplished, a designer supplies typesetting specifica-
tions to be activated by each tag. In addition, the Series
Section staff, under Barbara Spann’s supervision, concen-
trated on two major emphases in the fiscal year just con-
cluded: (1)completing the editing on all manuscripts that
had any chance of fiscal year 1985 funding, and (2) imple-
menting the use of IBM PCs in the word-processing-to-
typesetting procedure.

All promised manuscripts were finished on time and sig-
nificant progress was made in computerizing the editing
process. A pilot project in fiscal year 1984 brought in six
manuscripts by telecommunication to the Micom; the
resulting edited disks were used for typesetting. Of the
twenty-nine Series manuscripts sent to the typesetter in fis-
cal year 1985, nine were on disks. By way of forecast, six of
the eight manuscripts already accepted for editing in fiscal
year 1986 will be handled as electronic manuscripts.

In the number of books and recordings published this
year by the Press, many of them award winning, the work
of a very talented and dedicated staff is evident. For exam-
ple, the National Academy of Recordings Arts and Sci-
ences Award (the famed “Grammy”) for Best Historical
Album—Big Band Jazz—went to its producer J. R. Taylor,
Executive Producer of the Smithsonian Institution Press
Recordings Program. The “Grammy” for Best Album
Notes for the same album went to SIP Editor for Special
Projects, Martin Williams, and to Gunther Schuller, a
member of the Smithsonian Council. Meantime Carol
Beehler, SIP designer, was the recipient of the 64th Annual
Award of Merit from the Art Directors Club of New York
for her work on Drawn From Nature. She also received
the Association of American University Presses Book
Award for the same work.

Acknowledgment of the quality of SIP publications is
implicit in the awards and honors accorded to individual
books and recordings, as well as in the year-long publica-
tion of favorable critical reviews in various media. Espe-
cially gratifying is the recognition of the Smithsonian
Institution Press as an important peer among commercial
and scholarly publishing houses nationwide. This is evi-
denced by the increasing number of copublishing ventures,
this year alone, and the numerous requests from well-
established commercial publishing houses to contract with
the Press for distribution rights in the United States and
abroad. And so the diffusion of knowledge increases.

151

Smithsonian Magazine

Smithsonian magazine is the official magazine of the
Smithsonian Institution and to many of its primary audi-
ence of 4,000,000 and pass-along audience of an addi-
tional 3,000,000 it represents the only experience they
have of the Smithsonian Institution.

The magazine, by a considerable margin, has the largest
circulation of any museum-affiliated magazine in the
world and through its pages manifests month after month
the educational message of the Smithsonian. It accom-
plishes the educational purpose in a systematic fashion
since it regularly covers every subject area the Smithsonian
museums themselves do: Art, History, Natural History,
Science, Technology.

While it deals directly with the Institution every month
through columns such as the Secretary’s “Horizon,” Ted
Park’s, “Around the Mall?’ Constance Bond’s, “Smithso-
nian Highlights,” and while it describes major Smithsonian
events such as the change in the Secretariat, it is not a
house organ in the usual sense of the word; nor was it ever
intended to be. Rather its mandate is not only to represent
the Smithsonian explicitly but also to deal with what the
Smithsonian might be interested in.

Every year the magazine finds more than half a million
new reader-members. These members, along with existing
members, are eligible for other Smithsonian programs:
books and records from the Smithsonian Institution Press,
educationally related gifts from the Museum Shops and
Catalogs, Tours from the National Associate Program,
and Regionl Events.

The magazine also provides a constant flow of new
members to the Contributing Membership, the Resident
and Cooper-Hewitt associates programs. For these pro-
grams the magazine is the principal and most valued bene-
fit of membership.

The museums themselves are places of enchantment and
magic whose spirit is extraordinarily difficult to translate
since the exhibit objects themselves are so powerfully evoc-
ative. But the magazine over the years by superlative writ-
ing and color photography has attracted and held its
appreciative audience.

It is the assumption of the writers of this brief statement
that nearly everyone who reads Smithsonian Year is also
familiar with the magazine, that is to say, the magazine
speaks for itself. The highlights of the year, in brief, other
than those references which appear elsewhere in Smithso-
nian Year, are as follows:

On the business side the vital signs of the magazine
remain healthy. The renewal rate was steady at its tradi-
tional high rate. Advertising income was up 20 percent in a
year during which many magazines experienced difficul-

152

ties. Audited circulation stood at 2,173,000, highest in the
magazine’s history. Surplus generated for unrestricted
usage was also at its highest level. During the year the
magazine celebrated its 15th anniversary. One measure of
change: 892 pages printed in first full year of publication,
1971; in 1985 2,334 pages.

The transition from Secretary Ripley to Secretary
Adams was a major event at the Institution, and one of
importance not only to Associates but also to others who
have significant contact with the Smithsonian. The maga-
zine dealt with this transition in two major stories, the first
summarizing the accomplishments of the Ripley years, the
second introducing the readers to the new Secretary.

Among the year’s editorial highlights were three stories
dealing with the issue of standards in primary and second-
ary education; the subjects were resurgence of the McGuf-
fey Reader, the Boston Latin School, and the Bronx High
School of Science. This year Smithsonian was recognized
at the American Magazine Awards as a finalist in the gen-
eral excellence category for large-circulation publications.

Visitor Information and
Associates’ Reception Center

The Visitor Information and Associates’ Reception Center
(VIARC) is a focal point for central information, assis-
tance, and membership services for the public, Associate
members, Smithsonian staff, volunteers, and interns.
Many of its activities function seven days a week and
involve the coordination and direction of large numbers of
volunteers who constitute a primary source of support for
the Institution’s public information programs and for
assistance behind the scenes.

This was another extremely busy and productive year
for VIARC. One development, however, clearly ranks as
the most important in its fifteen-year history: the designa-
tion by Secretary Robert McC. Adams of the Great Hall of
the Smithsonian Institution Building as the site for the
long-discussed Smithsonian Information Center. The Sec-
retary’s subsequent approval of a design concept for the
Center, developed by an appointed committee, signaled
the immediate search for funding.

Another VIARC endeavor, the development of an
Institution-wide exterior graphic information system, pro-
gressed significantly with refinement of the design concept
and production of prototype components by the Office of
Exhibits Central.

Activities initiated this year were many and varied. To
broaden minority participation in the volunteer corps, dis-
cussions on effective recruitment were held with leaders of
black, Asian, and Hispanic communities. A slide presenta-
tion showing the range of Smithsonian volunteer opportu-
nities was created as a multi-purpose volunteer promotion
tool. Three supplemental services were incorporated in the
regular VIARC schedule: Saturday public tours of the Cas-
tle, orientation coffees for Smithsonian interns, and infor-
mation desk services at the Gallery Place museums.
Smithsonian orientation programs became a basic compo-
nent in the training for Tourmobile guides and, in coopera-
tion with the U. S. Tour and Travel Administration, were
presented in foreign languages for international tour orga-
nizers. A variety of new publications were produced
including Info Special, a newsletter for VIARC Informa-
tion Specialists; Smithsonian Museums At-a-Glance, a
flyer for distribution by members of the local and national
travel industry and VIARC’s summer mobile information
units; Management of Museum Volunteers, a booklet for
museum professionals; and a set of five illustrated book-
marks to use in response to children’s letters. VIARC’s
plastic tote bag, created in cooperation with Smithsonian
magazine to promote Associate membership, was a Merit
Award winner in the 1985 Printing Industries of America
Graphic Awards competition.

The Telephone Information Program responded to a
record nineteen thousand inquiries in July due to requests
for previsit information and great public interest in Aditi:
A Celebration of Life, the Festival of American Folklife,
and the space shuttle film The Dream Is Alive.

VIARC records also indicate that the Public Inquiry
Mail unit continued to handle thousands of letters; 1,147
volunteers served behind the scenes; intern registration
escalated 24 percent, and the annual Institution-wide vol-
unteer survey confirmed 4,802 individuals contributed
439,02 hours of service to the Institution.

153
Bresette
eM

Se

ADMINISTRATION

John F. Jameson, Assistant Secretary for Administration

The Institution operates effectively as a highly decentral-
ized organization with programs extending across the
country and with projects in many foreign countries. A
variety of central support offices work to assure the suc-
cess of scholarly and public activity and at the same time
provide central oversight and accountability for the man-
agement and use of financial, personnel, and physical
resources. These organization units include accounting
and financial services, audits and investigations, congres-
sional liaison, contracts, equal opportunity, facilities serv-
ices (including design and construction management, plant
services, and protection), general counsel, information
resource management, management analysis, personnel
administration, printing and photographic services, pro-
gramming and budget, risk management, special events,
supply services, and travel services. Funding for these cen-
tral services amounts to only about 7 percent of the Institu-
tion’s total operating expenses exclusive of the costs of
maintenance, operation, and protection of facilities.

155
Administrative and Support
Activities

The major overall emphasis by the administrative and sup-
port units was two-fold: provide effective and timely serv-
ices to their users and assure that the Institution
maintained a high level of control and accountability as a
public organization. In a coordinated effort involving the
Office of the Assistant Secretary, the Office of Program-
ming and Budget (OPB) and the Treasurer’s Office with the
involvement of bureaus and offices throughout the Institu-
tion, the Five-Year Prospectus, FY 1986-1990, covering the
Smithsonian’s program and facility development plans,
was prepared for approval by the board of Regents at the
January 28, 1985, meeting. Work started soon thereafter on
the draft prospectus for fiscal years 1987-1991 for Regents’
review at its September 16, 1985, meeting. Under the Secre-
tary’s guidance, the Office of Programming and Budget
incorporated many opportunities into the formulation of
the fiscal year 1986 unrestricted Trust fund and the fiscal
year 1987 Federal budgets for increased participation by
program managers and administrators throughout the
Institution at each stage of budget review and decision
making. OPB also expanded the application of automated
systems to budget analysis, monitoring, and budget pre-
sentation, including the extensive use of computer spread-
sheets. In October 1984, OPB presented its fifth budget
formulation workshop, “Budgeting in an Election Year.”
which was attended by approximately 60 staff from
throughout the Institution.

As the Office of Information Resource Management
(OIRM) completed its third year of activities, significant
technical and management changes were underway. The
Institution continued the transition from a central data
processing technology to distributed data processing using
microcomputers, minicomputers, and a new computer
mainframe, tied together by a data communications net-
work. The Smithsonian Institution Bibliographic Informa-
tion System, a turnkey system for libraries, archival units,
and individual bibliographies, was expanded to include
additional functions, such as acquisitions, and to serve
more users. Software for the information retrieval compo-
nent of a new specimen Collections Information system
was selected and high level systems design was completed
as were plans for starting up the system. A new computer
mainframe was installed and initial training of technical
staff was begun, preparatory to implementation of pro-
duction systems on the machine during fiscal year 1986,
notably the specimen collections system. Work continued
to define requirements and technical specifications for an
automated system for personnel management, preparation
of payroll, and reporting of information. Planning for an
Institutional raceway for voice, data, and image communi-

156

cations was advanced. An information center trained staff
in the use of information systems and computer capabili-
ties.

The Office of Personnel Administration assumed
responsibility for civil service and trust employee benefits
activities which had previously been managed by three sep-
arate offices. This consolidation will enhance communica-
tions and counseling on matters of substantial interest and
concern to employees and will facilitate analysis of benefits
programs, costs, and alternatives. Improvements in the
administration of the unemployment insurance program
were made with resultant savings. The Performance Man-
agement Review System was implemented and a new pro-
gram for training custodial workers was established.

The Office of Equal Opportunity (OEO) emphasized
special recruitment efforts for minorities and women and
for disabled persons in all categories of employment.
Goals for minorities and women were established
Smithsonian-wide and at each organizational level for pro-
fessional, administrative, and technical positions. The rep-
resentation of minorities and women in professional and
administrative positions and grades above grade 12
improved. Goals for disabled persons were established
Institution-wide, and the representation of such persons
increased. The outreach program continued to inform
minorities, women, and disabled persons and their advo-
cate organizations of Smithsonian programs, exhibitions,
activities, and careers. Outreach efforts included equal
opportunity exhibition displays and handouts at confer-
ences held by the National Institute for Women of Color,
The President’s Committee for the Employment of the
Handicapped, Women in Science and Engineering, League
of United Latin American Citizens, the National Federa-
tion of Business and Professional Women, and the
National Urban League. In addition, equal employment
messages were placed in four minority and women’s publi-
cations that reached an audience of approximately two
million people. Special outreach efforts were directed to
developing more useful relationships with the Hispanic
American and Asian American communities and organiza-
tions. These included participation in ethnic group confer-
ences, programs and cultural observances, and the
establishment of a networking system for continuous liai-
son. The objectives to increase the number of Hispanic
and Asian applicants for employment and to become more
aware of the needs and concerns of these ethnic groups
were essentially attained. OEO published two brochures
for employees and the public: How the Discrimination
Complaint System Works at the Smithsonian Institution
and Equal Opportunity Programs of the Smithsonian Insti-

tution. In addition, guidelines to improve facility and pro-
gram accessibility for disabled visitors were developed by
five task forces composed of bureau personnel in conjunc-
tion with Equal Opportunity staff.

Activities in the Office of Printing and Photographic
Services centered on collections management and educa-
tion projects. To guard against the perils of air pollution
causing damage to the photographic collections an acti-
vated charcoal filtration unit was installed in the cold stor-
age room. Initial plans were made for the expansion of the
room to meet growth requirements. A total of about
130,000 hazardous nitrate negatives have been converted
to safety film. When completed, attention will be turned to
other deteriorating types of film and the conversion of
glass plates to prevent breakage. A research program into
applied photographic preservation was initiated. The
Office continued the production of video discs centering
on the completion of the 35mm color slide files. The Office
has remained active in photographing objects for collec-
tion management, including a large quantity of watches
from the Division of Mechanisms and assistance to the
National Numismatics Collection in the inventory of their
materials. To provide photographic documentation of his-
toric events, the Office has continued its photography of
important events in and around the Washington area.
These included the Burial of the Unknown Soldier, Rededi-
cation of the Vietnam Veterans Memorial, Presidential
Inauguration, and others. Based on this photography, the
Office mounted its second annual exhibition, History As
Seen from the National Museum of American History, in
August 1985. The Office staff continued to be active in
teaching programs both in and outside the Institution. The
Office produced another photographic workshop for
museum professionals under the Office of Museum Pro-
grams. The Office also continued to cosponsor a one-day
workshop for local high school students with the White
House News Photographers Association. During the year,
the Office moved its Color Laboratory from a facility in
the Arts and Industries Building into new specially
designed space in the National Museum of American His-
tory, thus ending a continuous 1o05-year occupation of the
A&I space by Smithsonian photographers.

Other central services continued active administrative
and technical support for the Institution’s programs. The
Office of Supply Services designed and implemented an
automated tracking system and management reports
which will assist communications among itself, the
accounting office, and bureaus and offices as to the status
of procurement actions and contracts. The Office
exceeded its goals for the use of small and minority-owned

businesses. An effective property management system
resulted in tight controls on inventory and obtaining a
large amount of excess property for use. The Management
Analysis Office monitored the progress of actions needed
to strengthen internal controls and continued its program
of bringing to the Institution for the summer carefully
selected students in graduate schools of business adminis-
tration to work on important management projects. This
past year five postgraduate students worked in the audit,
supply services, information resource management, and
museum shop offices. The Office of Audits established an
investigative branch to examine possible criminal activities
by employees or contractors and review programmatic and
operational weaknesses susceptible to fraud or abuse. As
the principal coordinating and organizing unit for
Smithsonian events that emphasize institutional programs
and activities, the Office of Special Events managed sev-
eral hundred events each year. The Office also received
nearly a thousand requests from outside organizations
wishing to use Smithsonian space and determined which of
these met the policy requiring that such events be closely
related to the Institution’s own museum and education
programs.

The Travel Services Office (TSO) continued a busy
schedule of travel arrangements including those for the
Festival of American Folklife, which featured participants
from India and Louisiana; the Smithsonian Foreign Cur-
rency Program; the Precious Legacy exhibition of the
Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service; and
various research projects such as those in Cerro de la
Neblina and the Seychelles. In addition, a credit card pro-
gram has been implemented to phase out the use of Gov-
ernment Transportation Requests (GTR’s) for the purchase
of tickets. Preliminary plans have been made to set up a
computer link between the TSO and the Office of
Accounting and Financial Services to facilitate the process-
ing of ticket reports, credit card statements, and other
related records.

Highlights for the Office of Facilities Services and its
components included completion of the South Quadrangle
project concrete structure and roofing systems as well as
partial installation of mechanical and electrical systems
and interior partitioning. Construction is expected to be
complete in the spring of 1986. Other activities during the
year under the direction of the Office of Design and Con-
struction included master facilities planning at the
National Museum of American History; National
Museum of Natural History, the Whipple Observatory in
Tucson, Arizona; the Silver Hill Facility in Suitland, Mary-
land; and the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute in

LISY7A
Panama. Major exterior restoration work continued on
the Art and Industries Building with completion scheduled
for 1987, and on the Renwick Gallery facade with comple-
tion planned for 1986. Construction of the Anacostia
Neighborhood Museum annex began during the year with
completion scheduled for 1986. Major environmental and
fire protection improvements as well as work associated
with removing or encapsulating asbestos continued at the
National Museum of American History and at the
National Museum of Natural History. Work also pro-
gressed on the design development and installation of the
new specimen storage system at the Museum Support Cen-
ter. Major design efforts began at the Smithsonian Tropical
Research Institute on a dormitory to house visiting scien-
tists on Barro Colorado Island as well as on the Earl S.
Tupper Research and Conservation Center.

Significant progress was made in the Office of Plant
Services during the past year. Most notable was a major
reorganization to improve the quality of service and sup-
port and overall efficiency in operations. Other improve-
ments underway include the implementation of an
automated information management program and acquisi-
tion of computer equipment and software applications for
consolidating and improving financial, personnel, and
program management activities performed by the office;
and replacement of the computer system to improve
energy management and analysis. Energy conservation
efforts continued during the year, avoiding costs by about
$500,000. Efforts to reduce long distance telephone and
mail costs also continued through an aggressive communi-
cations cost avoidance program. Significant progress was
also made in reducing the backlog of projects and in
improving administration of the work hour quota system.
Work on real property records continued for all Smithso-
nian owned and leased buildings and structures.

Significant progress was made in the Office of Protec-
tion Services during the last year. The safety and health
division realized gains in all its program areas in 1985. An
industrial hygiene branch organized late in 1984 focused its
activities on asbestos abatement and control and on other
work place hazards. An extensive project to validate the
asbestos contamination index developed by the Smithso-
nian staff has been undertaken. The success of the overall
safety effort was recognized by receipt of the President’s
Safety and Health Award given for 1983. The award is
based on a rating of agency safety and health programs
and compensation costs.

Programs to upgrade security devices throughout the
Institution and to provide a proprietary alarm system are
continuing, with completion of the alarm system expected

158

by December 1986. The security force sustained both its
effective service to visitors and the protection afforded to
Smithsonian buildings and collections.

Service to the overall museum community included a
very successful conference on museum security, organiza-
tion of a program to certify professionals working in
museum security, and completion of a Manual of Basic
Security for the International Council of Museums’ Com-
mittee on Museum Security.

-

Smithsonian Institution Women’s
Council

The Smithsonian Institution Women’s Council was estab-
lished by Secretarial memorandum in 1972 to identify and
study the concerns of employees, to serve as an active advi-
sory group on women’s issues for management, and to
work for the improvement of employees’ conditions with
particular concern for encouraging the hiring, promotion,
and equal treatment of women. The Council’s open
monthly meetings are held the second Wednesday of each
month in the Regents’ Room of the Castle. The work of
the council is mainly done by several standing committees
(Information Processing, Training, Services and Benefits,
Daycare, Newsletter) and ad hoc committees devoted to
Council projects; Susan Kalcik is chairperson.

Projects this year included coordinating and publicizing
events held throughout the museum in conjunction with
Women’s History Month at the Smithsonian; a series of
tax seminars; and a poetry reading by author May Sarton,
cosponsored with Resident Associate Program. Members
also worked on a brochure to introduce the Council and
its activities, extended the distribution system of the news-
letter (4 Star) to reach all employees, and worked to estab-
lish daycare centers in several museum buildings. The
biennial election for a new Council took place in October.

Clara MacIntyre, a member of the Women’s Committee and orig-
inator of the High School Competition, presents an award to
Nicole Bonds, one of the thirteen finalists.

Smithsonian Internship Council

The Smithsonian Internship Council was established in
1981 as part of the provisions set forth in OM 820 for
intern programs at the Smithsonian Institution. The Coun-
cil is made up of at least one representative from each
bureau or office (usually the intern coordinator) and pro-
vides a forum for discussion of issues of concern to staff
working with interns. The Council works to set common
standards for interns and to improve coordination of
internships throughout the Institution.

The Internship Council began fiscal year 1985 by work-
ing on projects which were inspired by the revision of OM
820, “Smithsonian Institution Internships,” which was
issued in March 1984. The OM established criteria for the
selection of interns, guidelines for management to follow
in the placement and involvement of interns in their pro-
grams, and clarified the role of several offices having
responsibility for certain Smithsonian-wide internship pro-
grams.

Having established basic criteria for interns and having
studied the problems interns encounter while relocating
for the duration of their internship, the Council produced
a handbook for interns. The Handbook for Smithsonian
Interns serves as a helpful reference, with pertinent infor-
mation on topics such as: background material on the
Institution and its internships; procedures to follow while
at the Institution; facilities, services and activities available
to the intern; transportation information; and a variety of
extracurricular activities.

In an effort to improve the accuracy of data used in
reports prepared on interns at the Institution, Intern Regis-
tration and Information Services, Visitor Information and
Associates’ Reception Center, developed the ability to gen-
erate computer reports on intern programs throughout the
Institution. The cooperation and communication between
the Internship Council and Intern Registration and Infor-
mation Services keeps this information as current as possi-
ble. A total of 440 interns were registered at the
Smithsonian in fiscal year 1985. That was a twenty-four
percent increase over fiscal year 1984. Also, with encour-
agement from the Internship council and assistance in sug-
gesting ideas for subject matter, Intern Registration and
Information Services provides regularly scheduled orienta-
tion sessions for all Smithsonian interns.

To aid in the resolution of management issues which
relate to interns, the Council is planning a series of work-
shops for supervisors throughout the Institution. Also, the
Secretary’s Office is preparing to release a statement of
support for the Council’s goals.

Projects underway as of the end of the fiscal year include
efforts to establish a central stipend fund and to make low-
cost insurance available to interns while working at the
Institution.

159
160

Aa.

The Directorate of International Activities was established
on October 1, 1984, to monitor, coordinate, and enhance
the Smithsonian-wide array of International Activities.
During the first year of its existence the Directorate of
International Activities has focused its efforts on develop-
"ing programs for the International Center of the Quadran-
gle, and on creating a comprehensive picture of the
Institution’s existing international programs and relation-
ships, while continuing to respond to the needs of
"Smithsonian staff for assistance and advice.

_ Existing International Activities

“In fiscal year 1985 for the first time, a systematic survey of
- Smithsonian international relationships and foreign
research has been conducted. The information, which is
limited to projects undertaken within the last five years,
has been assembled and organized into “A Summary Pro-
‘file of International Activities” which reveals over 800
j projects in some 120 countries around the world. The
“Profile” provides us with a tool to analyze our interna-
tional efforts, and to understand the existing configura-
tion, concentration of collaborations, and the location of
significant gaps. It also serves as a reference work to
-answer questions about Smithsonian activities in particu-
lar countries and regions, or about the research and pro-
' fessional interests of particular staff members. The
“Profile” is organized by region, subdivided by country,
_and indexed to Smithsonian staff members. It is planned to
revise the “Profile” annually and distribute it widely. The
“Profile” was generated by the Office of Service and Proto-
_ col (formerly the Office of International Activities) which
_ was transferred from the Assistant Secretary for Public
Service to the Directorate in October 1984.

Office of Service and Protocol

Nearly twenty years ago, the Smithsonian first established
_an office of international activities because of the impor-

_ tance of comparative studies in all parts of the world to
Smithsonian research, and because of the increasing com-
_ plexity of international affairs affecting the conduct of

- work abroad.

' Establishing contacts for research collaboration and

" encouraging the development of cooperative institutional
_ relationships is a primary objective of the Office of Service
_ and Protocol (OSP). For example, within the past year

_ OSP identified opportunities for Smithsonian scholars to

DIRECTORATE
OF INTERNATIONAL
AGTIVITIES

John E. Reinhardt, Director

work with colleagues and institutions in many nations.
New links were established with the Korean Advanced
Institute of Science and Technology, and a delegation of
U.S. museum experts visited in May 1985 to advise plan-
ners of the new Korean National Science Center. On June
27, 1985, Secretary Adams and Malaysian Ambassador
Dato’ Lew Sip Hon signed an agreement at the Smithso-
nian covering work in the general fields of natural and cul-
tural history and conservation. Discussions, coordinated
by OSP, leading to the signing of this agreement, were ini-
tiated by Secretary Emeritus S. Dillon Ripley, who visited
Malaysia in 1984. It is hoped that the Smithsonian’s inter-
disciplinary projects and collaborative research proposals
may receive encouragement and expeditious Malay official
approval under the principles which are affirmed in this
agreement.

During 1985, OSP worked with the Smithsonian Foreign
Currency Program in planning Smithsonian participation
in the activities of various official binational commissions
that have been established pursuant to intergovernmental
agreements. The Smithsonian Institution hosted the June
1985 annual general meeting of the Indo-U.S. Subcommit-
tee on Education and Culture. And, regarding the newly
formed U.S.-Pakistan Joint Commission, the Smithsonian
has taken an active role in planning the second general
meeting of its Subcommission on Education and Culture,:
which is to take place at the Smithsonian in November
1985.

OSP continued as well to maintain its service responsi-
bilities to Smithsonian bureaus during 1985. During the
course of the year, OSP obtained 93 official passports, 941
foreign visas for Smithsonian staff and grantees, provided
documentation and consultation for 79 students and
exchange visitors, and arranged programs that brought
almost roo foreign scholars, government officials, and
museum professionals together with their counterparts
here at the Smithsonian. Among the distinguished visitors
which OSP received were Prince Khuzulwandle Dlamini of
Swaziland, Queen Noor of Jordan, Mme. Michele Gen-
dreauMassaloux, French Presidential Advisor on Educa-
tion, and Ambassador A. Hasnan Habib, with whom OSP
coordinated the IMAX film screening of a new Indonesian
cultural film, Dance of Life. Other liaison services aimed
at the facilitation of Smithsonian overseas research and
exchanges, while more difficult to quantify, are estimated
at 350 during 1985. These services included representing
and protecting Smithsonian interests in consultations with
foreign affairs agencies, providing professional guidance
on immigration matters, obtaining requisite official clear-
ances for research projects, and creating both international

161
policy documents and diplomatic correspondence on
behalf of Smithsonian programs.

Office of Publications Exchange

The Office of Publications Exchange (OPE) (formerly the
International Exchange Service) also reports to the direc-
torate. Its function is to foster international scholarly
interchange by enabling universities and learned societies
in the United States to exchange their publications with
those of corresponding institutions and governments of
other countries. Founded by the Smithsonian’s first Secre-
tary, Joseph Henry, OPE functions today as one of the old-
est entities with ongoing activities at the Smithsonian.
During 1985, OPE handled approximately 60,000 pack-
ages from more than 138 domestic institutions for trans-
mission abroad, and 23,000 packages from 193 foreign
institutions, for distribution in this country.

Programming for the International Center

Responsibility for the International Center in the new
Quadrangle Building was also transferred to the Director-
ate in October 1984. Through the Center the Institution
seeks to accomplish certain objectives not readily achieved
through existing programs. For example it will offer the-
matically integrated programs of exhibition, scholarly
exchange, and public education, bringing to bear Smithso-
nian research and expertise on the explication of diverse
cultures and regions of the world. Further, it will seek a
means to fill a significant Institution gap in programs in
Latin America and hemispheric interrelationships, for
while substantial Smithsonian research actually goes on in
middle and South America, it is scattered within the Insti-
tution and for the most part has low visibility. And it will
develop programs to encourage regular exchanges with
scholars, museum professionals in other nations, through
the development of institutional relationships. In all of
these activities, in keeping with the special purposes of the
Quadrangle itself, the initial concentration wili be on
increasing contacts with and offering programs about
Latin America, Africa, and Asia.

International Center thematic programs are now under
development. In order to help increase American under-
standing of other cultures, the Centér’s opening programs
in the spring of 1987 will focus on the culture-specific vis-
ual symbolism and forms of ritual behavior associated
with the universal experience of birth. In 1988 the Center’s

162

program will concentrate upon tropical forests and the —
consequences and causes of the rapid degradation of th
irreplaceable world treasures. The subsequent program
will concentrate on themes relating to Latin America.

Strengthening scholarly and professional exchanges
through institutional linkages takes many forms, buildi
upon existing relationships and creating new ones. Conf
ences, workshops, and training opportunities, both at th
Smithsonian locations and in other countries, are under —
development in close cooperation with the bureaus. At
outset, these efforts will be largely focused on Latin Ameri
ica and will be coordinated with the Columbus Quincen
tenary planning effort. Their subject matter will range -
across the Smithsonian’s scientific and cultural interests —
including tropical biology, history of science and technol-—
ogy, museum conservation, and others. 4

2
;
4

Columbus Quincentenary Planning
The year 1992 will mark the sooth anniversary of the aa
ing of Columbus in the Americas. The Quincentenary
Commemoration offers a unique opportunity for the
Smithsonian to stimulate scholarly and public interest in —
the impact of the voyage on the past, present, and future —
cultures of the Americas. The next seven years leading to
1992 will be time to develop a thematic framework for the
Institution’s activities, to promote scholarly exchange, to
identify significant research projects, and to develop public
programming. The Directorate has been assigned respon-
sibility for this undertaking. *

Initial activity will consist of two Quincentennial plan- —
ning conferences in fall of 1985. Each conference will
include eight to ten South, Middle, and North American —
scholars from various fields and the directors of the
Smithsonian bureaus and offices. Invited scholars will be —
asked to present brief papers on salient themes, topics, and
issues from their scholarly and national perspectives which
shed light on the deeper and broader meaning of the
Columbus Quincentenary. The format will encourage
much exchange among the visiting scholars and Smithso-
nian bureau directors.

The purposes of the meetings are to bring the Institution
into the continuing international and national discussion
of commemoration topics and to extend the intellectual
depth and breadth of the Smithsonian’s own internal dis-
cussion of Quincentennial planning.
EMBERSHIP AND
DEVELOPMENT

James Mck. Symington, Director
Office of Development

In addition to fulfilling its primary role of securing private
funding for specific projects of the Smithsonian’s bureaux
and offices, the Development Office has been involved in
two special capital campaigns. The Cooper-Hewitt
Museum in New York City, the Smithsonian’s national
museum of design, is undertaking a $23 million campaign
to enlarge and renovate its quarters in the Carnegie Man-
sion. One half of this amount is expected to be provided in
a federal appropriation, and the remaining half is being
sought from individuals, corporations, and foundations. A
Campaign Committee has been formed with a membership
of twenty-two individuals, nine of whom are present or
former members of the National Associate Board. The
firm of Brakeley, John Price Jones has been engaged to
advise and assist the director of Cooper-Hewitt, Lisa Tay-
lor, and the Campaign Committee.

The National Museum of African Art has also engaged
the Brakeley organization to prepare a feasibility study for
a major campaign to establish an acquisition fund for the
museum. The Development Office has been working
closely with the museum’s director, Sylvia Williams, in
research and planning for this significant new undertak-
ing.

In September, a first mailing was sent to two thousand
Contributing Members of the Associates located in the
northeastern and mid-Atlantic regions, suggesting the
advantages to them and to the Smithsonian of participat-
ing in the Institution’s Pooled Income Fund. It is hoped
that there will be a substantial expression of interest on
members’ parts which will then be personally followed up
by the Development Office on a case-by-case basis.

As a means of studying and appraising the Institution’s
organization for fund-raising, Cambridge Associates was
asked to prepare a report for the Secretary. Reflecting the
opinions and attitudes of many bureaux and offices of the
Smithsonian toward the development process, the report
will be the subject of review by the Secretary, his Manage-
ment Committee, and all bureau and office heads. The
preparation of an Institutional development brochure has
been deferred, pending results of the Cambridge Associ-
ates study.

While the Office performed donor research, strategic
planning, and project consultation for virtually all
bureaux and offices of the Smithsonian, the following
received contributions or grants in fiscal year 1985, exclu-
sive of support from the James Smithson Society and the
Women’s Committee of the Smithsonian Associates,
reported elsewhere in this section: National Museum of
African Art, National Museum of American Art, National
Museum of American History, National Air and Space

164

Museum, National Museum of Natural History, Freer
Gallery of Art, National Zoological Park, Office of Ele-
mentary and Secondary Education, Office of Symposia
and Seminars, Smithsonian Environmental Research Cen-
ter, Smithsonian Institution Press, Smithsonian Tropical
Research Institute, and the Resident Associate Program.

'

National Board of the
Smithsonian Associates

Seymour H. Knox III assumed the chairmanship of the
National Board at the April meeting in Fort Worth, Texas.
Members of the Board have continued their assistance to
the Smithsonian, becoming involved in National Associate
regional events and a number of specific bureau needs.

Chairman Knox continues the National Board’s associa-
tion with the Smithsonian’s Board of Regents by attending
their meetings and reporting to the National Board on the
subjects that were discussed.

New members elected to the board at the April meeting
were: S. Charles Kemp (Jackson, Mississippi), Thomas M.
Keresey (Palm Beach, Florida), Jack S. Parker (Carefree,
Arizona), Charles W. Schmidt (Wayland, Massachusetts),
John C. Whitehead (Washington, D.C.), and J. Tylee
Wilson (Winston-Salem, North Carolina).

At the spring meeting in Fort Worth, two new formats
were inaugurated: spouses were welcomed to one meeting
so as to enhance the participation of the Board in the role
of the Institution, in this instance the several aspects of the
National Associate Program, Lectures and Seminars,
Travel and Contributing Membership; second, a meeting
for Board Members only at which the Secretary gave a
report on important issues facing the Institution, and
affording the Board an opportunity to discuss areas of
their interest. The same meeting format was successfully
followed at the autumn 1985 meetings in Washington
where Board members and spouses enjoyed presentations
on Smithsonian magazine and the National Zoological
Park. The next day, Secretary Adams reported to Board
members on various Smithsonian endeavors and plans for
the future.

Women’s Committee of the
Smithsonian Associates

The sixty-five active and fifty-seven resource members of
the Women’s Committee of the Smithsonian Associates
continued to advance the interests of the Smithsonian
through fund-raising, special projects, and hospitality on a
volunteer basis. The members of the Committee gave over
7,600 hours of their time to the Smithsonian in fiscal year
1985. The Committee awarded $52,700 to twenty-nine
projects in twelve museums and bureaus. These monies
were the net proceeds made available by the 1984 Christ-
mas Dance and the 1984 Washington Craft Show. Projects
were supported in amounts from $200 to $4000.

The National Museum of Natural History received
funds for: reinventorying and computerizing the Cushman
Library, an x-ray diffraction camera for the Department of
Mineral Sciences, manuscript conservation and restoration
funds for papers from Islamic people of Southern Phili-
ppines in the Department of Anthropology, docent educa-
tion, a computer writing system for use by scientists,
reproduction of rare slides of Bromeliads taken by Lyman
Smith, cataloging over 6,000,000 specimens in the Depart-
ment of Entomology, and a publication on the develop-
ment and setup of a Discovery Room.

The National Air and Space Museum was given support
for an oral history taken from Dr. Reisig on the history
and development of rocketry and for a school program on
comets. The National Museum of American History
received funds for: a black American Culture package con-
sisting of interviews and documentation of musicians over
seventy years of age, a musical instrument videodisk, man-
nequins accurately postured for the period and docent edu-
cation. The National Zoological Park received funding
for: a platform scale in the Handrearing Department, a
computer for the Education Department, continued sup-
port for graduate student stipends in the reproductive
physiology program, and video equipment for the Depart-
ment of Herpetology. The Conservation and Research
Center in Front Royal received a low-light intensity cam-
era to observe the behavior of nocturnal endangered spe-
cies. The Astrophysical Observatory was able to purchase
films and the Tropical Research Center developed a nature
trail on the Barro Colorado Island through assistance from
the Committee.

One hundred artists from twenty-eight states and the
District of Columbia participated in the third annual
Washington Craft Show held April 26-28, 1985, in the
Departmental Auditorium. The artists were selected by
five jurors: Elizabeth Broun, chief curator and assistant
director, National Museum of American Art; Marc
Goldring, leather artist and project director, National
Crafts Planning Board; Ken Ferguson, ceramic artist and

165
head of the Crafts Department at Kansas City Art Insti-
tute; Ivy Ross, jewelry designer; and Lia Cook, fiber artist
and professor, California College of Arts and Crafts, Oak-
land. Over 10,000 people attended the show, and sales
were up substantially, over 25 percent more than the pre-
vious year. As in the past, a preview fund-raising party was
held on April 26. A silent auction, organized by the
resource members of the Committee, was held at the
Departmental Auditorium concurrently with the Craft
Show. A High School Craft Competition for the District of
Columbia and six surrounding school districts was held to
recognize quality student work and offer young artists
contact with some of the country’s finest artists. Addition-
ally, an all-day fiber seminar was sponsored by the Resi-
dent Associate Program and the James Renwick Collectors
Alliance.

In November, three members of the Women’s Commit-
tee generously opened their homes to ninety Contributing
Members visiting Washington for a special behind-the-
scenes Smithsonian tour.

166

James Smithson Society

The James Smithson Society was founded in 1977 as the
highest level of the Contributing Membership of the
Smithsonian Associates. Since then, the Society has
granted more than $1,500,000 in support of Smithsonian

q

projects and acquisitions. This year, through the contribu- |

tions of Annual Members, the Society made awards total-
ing $235,000 to the following: The Office of Symposia and
Seminars for partial support of the symposium, “The Ico-
nography and Technology of the Statue of Liberty” at the
Cooper-Hewitt Museum; the Smithsonian Institution
Traveling Exhibition Service toward the initial planning of
an exhibition on the destruction of the world’s rainforests;
the National Museum of Natural History to contribute
toward a film on volcanism and its observation in Hawaii;
the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory to establish a
public service program for Halley’s Comet; the National
Zoological Park toward the development of educational
graphics for a new butterfly program; the National Air
and Space Museum toward the construction and operation
of a “Mission Control Center” for the two round-the-
world unrefueled flights scheduled for fall 1985; the
Cooper-Hewitt Museum toward a matching challenge
grant for renovation and construction; the Hirshhorn
Museum and Sculpture Garden to acquire Inside “Ohio
Prospect Bones” 3.14.85, a painting by Robert Stackhouse;
the National Museum of African Art toward the acquisi-
tion of a Yoruba (Nigeria) ivory carving; the National
Museum of American History, in cooperation with several
bureaux, to plan a radio series and produce a pilot pro-
gram on American music performances at the Smithso-
nian; and to the National Portrait Gallery, support toward
the acquisition of a portrait by Thomas Eakins.

The annual weekend for members of the Society, held
every year in conjunction with the autumn meeting of the
National Board of the Smithsonian Associates took place
September 27-28. At a formal dinner held at the National
Portrait Gallery, National Board Chairman Seymour H.
Knox III announced the 1985 Smithson Society grants and
presented the Society’s Founder Medal posthumously to
Earl S. Tupper. A substantial gift from the Tupper family
made possible the construction of the Earl S$. Tupper
Research and Conference Center at the Smithsonian Tropi-
cal Research Institute in Panama. On the morning of Sep-
tember 28, spouses of the National Board and Smithson
Society members participated in a musical tour of the
National Museum of American History. Following the
tour, Smithson Society and National Board members vis-
ited the Quadrangle complex and had a luncheon in their
honor at the Commons.

Smithsonian National
Associate Program

Since its inception in 1970, the Smithsonian National Asso-
ciate Program, in cooperation with other Smithsonian
bureaus, has provided innovative educational opportuni-
ties for Smithsonian Associates throughout the nation.
Through Smithsonian magazine, members join activities
which increase their awareness of the Institution and
encourage support for its work.

The three units which comprise the National Associate
Program, now serving more than two million members,
offer benefits to Associates in a variety of ways, all of
which are directed toward increasing members’ personal
involvement with the life of the Smithsonian.

Contributing Membership Program

The Contributing Membership of the National Associate
Program provides unrestricted funds for Smithsonian
research, education, and outreach programs through six
levels of annual membership: Supporting (s50), available
only to members living outside the greater Washington,
D.C., metropolitan area; Donor (stoo); Sponsoring ($250);
Sustaining ($500); Patron ($1,000); and the James
Smithson Society ($1,500).

The membership has grown steadily since the program’s
establishment in 1976. It numbers 32,500 at the end of 1985
fiscal year, up 15 percent from 1984. Income from member-
ship dues, responses to special appeals, and corporate
matching funds amounted to $3,300,000 in 1985, an 18
percent increase over the previous year. Approximately 86
percent of Contributing Members reside outside the
greater Washington, D.C., metropolitan area.

Nine special events were organized for members during
the year, including a special viewing of the exhibition
Aditi: A Celebration of Life; a courtyard reception and
open house at the National Museum of American Art to
view three special exhibitions; a premiere of the new
IMAX film, The Dream Is Alive at the National Air and
Space Museum; and a brass band concert and picnic at the
National Bandstand at the National Museum of American
History. Upper-level donors were invited to Collectors’
Tours and receptions at the Folger Shakespeare Library
and at Decatur House, an Eighteenth-century property of
the National Trust for Historic Preservation.

The program endeavors not only to provide attractive
books and catalogs as benefits for its members, but also to
assist other SI bureaus with their publications. In addition
to the Smithsonian Engagement Calendar sent each fall to
all members, 1985 complimentary publications were
Drawn from Nature: The Botanical Art of Joseph Prestele

and His Sons, also published by the Smithsonian Institu-
tion Press, and Aditi: The Living Arts of India, also pub-
lished by the Press to accompany the exhibition which
constituted one of the major Smithsonian contributions to
the nationwide festival of India. Because of the press run
the program can guarantee, bureaus are able to have a bet-
ter publication at a significantly lower price.

For Contributing Members living within the greater
Washington, D.C. area, the program pays annual dues to
the Resident Associate Program, helping to support its
monthly newsletter and classes. Members outside this area
receive “Research Reports,’ published three times a year
by the Office of Public Affairs to highlight special research
and educational projects underway throughout the Institu-
tion.

“Smithsonian Treasures,” a behind-the-scenes tour of the
Institution designed by the Associates Travel Program for
Contributing Members exclusively, continues to meet very
positive response. During the course of Lecture and Semi-
nar Programs in communities nationwide, Contributing
Members are offered complimentary tickets to one lecture
and often an invitation to an informal gathering planned
in conjunction with the lecture. Such special treatment
reenforces the message that these members are important
to the Smithsonian and forwards the development of a
loyal national constituency that will be responsive to other
specific Smithsonian fundraising efforts.

The Lecture and Seminar Program

The National Associates Lecture and Seminar Program,
formerly the Regional Events Program and the Selected
Studies Program, continues to share the educational
resources of the Smithsonian with Associates and the gen-
eral public who live outside Washington, D.C. Now in its
tenth year, the Lecture and Seminar Program has made it
possible for Smithsonian scientists, curators, and fellows
to travel to more than 100 cities. Through lectures, semi-
nars, and musical presentations, these Smithsonian
scholars offer Americans throughout the country a unique
opportunity to learn about the research and activities of
their national museum.

Museums, other cultural organizations, colleges, and
universities in host cities throughout the country are local
cosponsors for Smithsonian Events. Many local hotels
provide in-kind services as corporate cosponsors. The
national organizations that continue to lend support to the
Lecture and Seminar Program are: The Institute of Life-
time Learning of the American Association of Retired Per-

167
sons, the EAA Aviation Foundation, Sigma Xi, the
Scientific Research Society, the National Trust for Historic
Preservation, the World Wildlife Fund—U.S., and United
Airlines.

During 1985, the Lecture and Seminar Program cooper-
ated with 87 local and six national organizations to pro-
duce 169 Smithsonian Events in eighteeen host cities—
Bozeman and Missoula, Montana; Austin, Texas; Oak-
land, Berkeley, Sacramento, Davis, and Santa Barbara,
California; Honolulu, Hawaii; Omaha and Lincoln,
Nebraska; Charleston, South Carolina; Phoenix, Arizona;
Las Vegas and Overton, Nevada; Savannah, Georgia;
Portland, Maine; and Springfield, Massachusetts.

One hundred twenty-seven feature articles about
Smithsonian Events were carried in newspapers and maga-
zines nationwide. Smithsonian speakers were heard in
forty-eight radio and television interviews throughout the
country.

Each year, the Lecture and Seminar Program introduces
new events and formats to highlight current research inter-
ests of the Smithsonian and of the local cosponsoring insti-
tutions. Lectures for 1985 included “American Costume:
Men and Women Dressing the Part” by Claudia Kidwell,
NMAH, “American Art at the Smithsonian” by Charles
Eldredge, director of NMAA; “Bamboos of the World” by
Thomas Soderstrom, NMNH; and “More than Meets the
Eye: Exploring Microspace” by Jeffrey Post, NMNH.

In response to growing enthusiasm among Associates,
the Lecture and Seminar Program introduced two-to-five-
day seminars. Among these special extended seminars
were “Life in the Ocean Depths” by Clyde Roper and
David Pawson, NMNH; “Creative Writing” by Smithso-
nian Magazine Editor Edwards Park, and “Man’s Quest
for Wings: Highlights of Aviation History” by E.T.
Wooldridge, Claudia Oakes, and Thomas Crouch,
NASM.

The first international program highlighted this tour
season. In May of this year, an entourage of ten Smithso-
nian speakers, including Secretary Adams, traveled to
Tokyo, Japan, to share their knowledge and expertise with
the Japanese and American public and Smithsonian Asso-
ciates living in Japan. This lecture series was made possi-
ble by MYC Cultural Exchange Institute, a private,
nonprofit cultural organization based in Tokyo, with the
cooperation of the American Embassy, Tokyo American
Club, the American Chamber of Commerce, and The
America-Japan Society. A gala reception was held on May
15 to honor Smithsonian delegates and included remarks
by Secretary Adams, a welcome by Shintaro Abe, Foreign
Minister of Japan, and comments by Tadao Ishikawa,

168

President of Keio University. In addition, Smithsonian sci-
entists and curators gave presentations at four American
schools and met with colleagues to discuss research
projects. The Tokyo series was met with highly enthusias-
tic response from both the Japanese and American audi-
ences and generated a great deal of interest in future
programs for scholarly and cultural interchange.

In addition to events offered in cities throughout the
United States and abroad, the Lecture and Seminar Pro-
gram also designs intensive, week-long seminars for
National Associates who wish to expand their educational
horizons in Washington, D.C. These seminars, held in
Smithsonian museums and research facilities, are pre-
sented by Smithsonian curators and scholars. “Animal
Communication: Classic Studies and New Discoveries”
was conducted by specialists at the National Zoological
Park and “Aircraft Restoration” enabled participants to
get a firsthand glimpse of some of the restoration activities
at the National Air and Space Museum’s Paul E. Garber
Facility.

The Lecture and Seminar Program launched a science
education project with the National Museum of Natural
History’s Office of Education. This joint effort provides
workshops for science teachers and museum educators to
develop innovative methods of teaching science.

Associates Travel Program

The Associates Travel Program presents educational study
tours that mirror the interests and concerns of the Institu-
tion. Tours are designed for members who are particularly
interested in the work of the national museum and the sub-
jects in Smithsonian magazine. The educational content of
both foreign and domestic tours is enhanced by study lead-
ers; each trip is led by one or more Smithsonian staff. Since
1975, more than 54,000 Associates have participated in
study tours throughout the world; in 1985, 4,000 members
traveled on ninety-five tours.

In 1985, Associates chose from forty-one Domestic Study
Tours—to all parts of the United States—to experience
firsthand the natural wonders and regional heritage of
America. Three ships were chartered exclusively for
Smithsonian Associates to explore our American waters.
The historic steamboat Delta Queen steamed up the Mis-
sissippi re-creating the life of a bygone era. On the Chesa-

Smithsonian Associates in Zion National Park, Utah, hike the
Gateway-to-the-Narrows Trail at the foot of sandstone walls that
rise 2,000 feet above the Virgin River.

peake Bay Cruise, Associates visited centers of the crab
and oyster industry and toured historic homes and muse-
ums from Baltimore to Williamsburg. Other members
cruised Alaska’s famed Inside Passage.

New programs took place in Chicago and Los Angeles.
Here Associates learned about architecture, history, and
current cultural trends. A weekend program of opera in
New York City featured guest performers, backstage
tours, and selected performances. Crafts, antiques, and
historic homes highlighted a summer tour of Vermont’s
green mountains.

Associates continue to seek the adventure and wonder of
the out-of-doors. Three new natural history programs
took place in Maine, Oregon, and Atlanta, Georgia. For a
hands-on experience, Associates joined archaeologists in
Cortez, Colorado, to dig for artifacts at an Anasazi Indian
site. David Steadman (NMNH) led a camping trip to the
Hawaiian Islands where he was conducting research on
bird fossils.

More than 3,000 Associates participated in the “Wash-
ington Anytime Weekend,” designed to give members an
opportunity to visit the nation’s capital and the Smithso-
nian any weekend during the year. The program is exe-
cuted in cooperation with the Visitor Information and
Associates’ Reception Center, which provides a behind-
the-scenes tour of the Castle and is available for informa-
tion and guidance during the weekend.

Foreign Study Tours continued to serve the diverse inter-
ests of Associates by offering a wide variety of activities
and destinations. Two very successful holiday programs,
“Christmas in Canterbury” and “Christmas in Austria,”
enabled Associates to join local residents in traditional hol-
iday observances, attend the theater, and enjoy the ambi-
ance and festive spirit of an old-fashioned Christmas.

Natural history programs included a new tour to Ireland
where Associates stayed in castles and inns and took day
hikes along the southwest coast. A wildlife safari to India
and Nepal included excursions on elephant back to
observe many species of wildlife. This year two New
Zealand study tours were offered. Some members fol-
lowed a cultural itinerary on the North and South Islands,
while others hiked the famous thirty-three-mile Milford
Track. Associates explored the north central Highlands of
Scotland and the offshore islands of Handa and Skye ona
program cosponsored for the seventh consecutive year by
the Aigas Field Centre.

Clyde Roper (NMNH) led the fourth annual Atlantic
Crossing, discussing marine biology and maritime history
while sailing from Spain to the Caribbean aboard the four-
masted barque Sea Cloud. Associates traveled on the

T7O

Danube from Romania through Bulgaria, Yugoslavia,
Hungary, Czechoslovakia, Austria, and Germany studying
the history and culture of the area. David Steadman
(NMNH) led a new study voyage to the South Pacific
where he lectured on the natural history of Fiji, Samoa, the
Cook Islands, Bora Bora, and Tahiti. Other study voyages
focused on art and architecture on the Iberian Peninsula
and the southern coast of France, Viking history from
Scotland through the fjords of Norway, and the natural
and cultural history of Indonesia.

China continued to lure members who traveled on thir-
teen tours following seven different itineraries. The Tibet
study tours were in great demand, as were “Decorative
Arts and Antiques” and “China by Train.” In addition to
China, train buffs traveled through India aboard the his-
toric train of the maharajas, crossed the Soviet Union on
the Trans-Siberian Express, and experienced a variety of
train travel on “Europe by Train” including France’s TGV
and the Orient Express.

Countryside programs allowed Associates to live in
small towns in England, France, Austria, and Switzerland.
Residential seminars included music history in Salzburg,
Japanese language and culture in Kyoto, history and art in
Florence, and the seventh annual Oxford/Smithsonian
Seminar which offered a choice of specially designed
courses in the arts and sciences.

The Smithsonian National Associate Program continues
to increase services to its members as it encourages private
support for the Institution. Inherent in the approach of the
program is an emphasis on four themes: educational pur-
suits, member participation, public awareness, and coop-
eration with Smithsonian bureaus and like-minded
organizations nationwide.
Smithsonian Resident
Associate Program

The Smithsonian Resident Associate Program (RAP)—the
private, cultural, continuing education, membership, and
outreach arm of the Smithsonian Institution for metropoli-
tan Washington—is a model for museum membership and
educational programs nationally and internationally. It
draws membership from the District of Columbia, North-
ern Virginia, and Maryland. This year membership was
55,000 with retention at 80 percent.

During fiscal year 1985, over 1,900 activities—many
with multiple sections—were attended by more than
279,550 persons, an increase over the previous year. Hun-
dreds of thousands more persons heard and/or saw
courses through audio-bridge or television broadcasts.

Self-supporting and income-producing, except for Dis-
covery Theater and performing arts, with occasional small
grants to help fund special outreach projects, the program
reimburses the Institution for office space rental, computer
and audio-visual support, labor, and administrative sup-
port.

Cooperation with Smithsonian Bureaus

A primary focus of the program continues to be planning
activities that enhance appreciation of Smithsonian
resources. Quarterly planning meetings with Smithsonian
Institution curators lead to the organization of a variety of
activities that disseminate the mission of the Institution. In
fiscal year 198s, the Resident Associate Program conducted
activities in connection with all major exhibitions, as well
as special collections and curatorial expertise. In addition,
the program and some Smithsonian museums cosponsor
annual series: “Portraits in Motion Showcase” perfor-
mances with the National Portrait Gallery; Twentieth Cen-
tury Consort concerts and regular lectures with the
Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden; the multi-
faceted Smithsonian chamber music programs with the
National Museum of American History; and concerts in
the Albert Einstein Planetarium with the National Air and
Space Museum. Programmatic cooperation with the
Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service and
staff participation as lecturers in Office of Museum Pro-
grams workshops are ongoing. Courses are regularly
planned in collaboration with the Woodrow Wilson Inter-
national Center for Scholars.

Outreach

Through scholarships, special interest projects, and col-
laboration with civic institutions, the Resident Associate
Program expands its accessibility.

Discover Graphics, a free program, provides talented
area high school students and their teachers with opportu-
nities to study etching and lithography on fine Smithsonian
presses. Over 200 public secondary school students and
their art teachers received studio training, combined with
Smithsonian study visits. A student exhibition of selection
prints, juried by Smithsonian curators, was held at the
National Museum of American History, summer 1985.

Scholarships were awarded to inner city young people
and adults to attend Young Associate and adult courses.
This year 141 adult scholarships, and 77 scholarships for
young people were awarded.

The nineteenth annual kite festival open to members
and the general public took place on the Mall in March.

Tuesday Mornings at the Smithsonian is the daytime
weekly lecture series specifically designed to engage the
interest of retired citizens. Thirty-six lectures, each attract-
ing between 250 and 400 persons, are presented annually
by Smithsonian scholars. This year a total of 11,300
attended. Programs for working singles were initiated this
year and will be further emphasized in fiscal year 1986.

Collaboration with Community, Regional, National, and
International Organizations

For the twelfth consecutive year, the Resident Associate
Program cosponsored nine monthly lectures with the
Audubon Naturalist Society and the Friends of the
National Zoo. This year’s series attracted more than
11,000 persons. The program continues to collaborate
with organizations such as the American Institute of Archi-
tects and the AIA Foundation, the Washington-Alexandria
Center for Architecture, Virginia Polytechnic Institute and
State University, the Pennsylvania Avenue Development
Corporation, District of Columbia Downtown Partner-
ship, the Office of the Mayor, the Art Directors Club of
Metropolitan Washington, the Federal Design Council,
and the American Institute of Graphic Arts, Washington
Chapter.

The Resident Associate Program received three awards
from the National University Continuing Education Asso-
ciation: two regional for excellence in programming, and
one national for creative marketing.

Many lectures, courses, films, and performances were
planned in collaboration with foreign embassies and inter-

Tig
Indian musician Ravi Shankar plays the sitar in concert at the
Baird Auditorium in June 1985 as part of the opening of the year-
long Festival of India at the Smithsonian and around the nation.
(Photograph by Robert de Milt)

national societies, including the courses, “Saudi Arabia:
Tradition and Change”; “The Classic Japanese Theater:
No, Bunraku, Kabuki”; and “Great Britain and the
World—Contemporary Perspectives.”

The Resident Associate Program responded to the
national celebration of the Festival of India, with a rich
selection of activities. Highlights included the performance
of world famous sitarist Ravi Shankar; a course “The Dis-
cerning Traveler in India: Ancient Civilization and New
Hope”; and a lecture by Rajeev Sethi, curator of Aditi: A
Celebration of Life.

Telecommunications

The Resident Association Program is committed to the use
of the latest telecommunications technology and its appli-
cations for outreach. During fiscal year 1985 two courses
were videotaped—“Living and Working in Space: The
Final Frontier” and “The Ascendancy Asia: The Pacific
Community in the 21st Century.” The latter was developed
in cooperation with the Woodrow Wilson International
Center for Scholars Asia Program and the Asia Founda-

172

tion. After editing, the tapes are to be distributed in Asia
by the Asia Foundation and in the United States by the
Resident Associate Program.

Collaboration also began with the United States Infor-
mation Agency’s WORLDNET, an international, interac-
tive video broadcasting service. Selected Resident
Associate activities are to be broadcast by satellite to
Europe commencing in September 1985 and will be seen at
United States embassies.

Programs

Courses

The curriculum of arts, sciences, humanities, and studio
arts for educated adults—offered four terms per year—
provides opportunities for serious study with Smithsonian
and visiting scholars. In 1984-85, 181 lecture courses were
scheduled, and attendance reached 58,600. Among the
most popular were “Opulence and Illusion: Masters of
Fashion Photography” and “The Tellers of Tales: The Art
of Traditional Storytelling,” coordinated by Smithsonian’s
Oscar-winning Marjorie Hunt; “Conflict and Peacemaking
in the Middle East: Strategic Issues,” developed with the
cooperation of Wilson Center experts; and “The Television
Age: News and Reality,” featuring eminent broadcast jour-
nalists. Computer courses and foreign language courses
expanded successfully.

The studio arts program enhances appreciation of age-
old crafts, keeping alive techniques now rapidly disappear-
ing from the modern world, and introduces contemporary
arts and crafts. In all, 240 courses and workshops were
presented, with an attendance of nearly 13,800.

Lectures, Seminars, Films

Single lectures, intensive one- and two-day seminars, and
scholarly symposia led by distinguished authorities
addressed a wide range of cultural topics. Individual films
and film series featuring foreign cultures, saluting well-
known artists, or highlighting different techniques are an
expanding feature.

Notable speakers and guest artists included Oscar nomi-
nee Adoph Caesar, archaeologist Mary Leakey, artist Judy
Chicago, engineer Harold Edgerton, Pulitzer-prize win-
ning biographer Joseph Lash, American National Theater
director Peter Sellars, and Soviet mountaineer Michael
Monastyrskii. More than 28,000 persons attended 92 Res-
ident Associate Program lectures in fiscal year 1985. Eleven
intensive seminars enabled 1,200 participants to examine a
rich selection of subjects in depth.

Several Washington film premieres were screened,
including Wagner, the nine-hour epic story of the operatic
genius, and The Country Girls, which sold out three
times. Among the many successful film series sponsored
during the year were a Truffaut retrospective and a show-
case of East European films, launched with a reception
attended by five ambassadors. Sixty-three films attracted
22,800 people.

Performing Arts

An outstanding season of music, dance, theater, and
poetry was presented in RAP’s second year of sponsorship
of ticketed Smithsonian performing arts events. The
acclaimed Emerson String Quartet series, summer outdoor
concerts in the courtyard of the National Museum of
American Art/ National Portrait Gallery, winter brunch
concerts held at the National Museum of American His-
tory, the Jazz Series, Joe Williams’ tribute to Count Basie,
the “Stars of the D’Oyly Carte,” and dancer Meredith
Monk’s performance were among highlights. In the 1984-
85 season, 127 performances were presented, and 34,600
attended.

Study Tours

On-site learning experiences are organized for small
groups in the fields of art, architecture, archaeology, his-
tory, industry, and science, lasting from one hour to three
days. Tours range in content from historic railroads to the
Baltimore art scene to cruises on the Chesapeake Bay. Art
and architecture continue to be among the most popular
tour subjects, with specialized science tours gaining stead-
ily. Free tours, most led by museum docents, attracted
4,900 participants during the year, and a series of tours for
working singles attracted new audiences. In 1984-85, 572
tours took place, with total attendance by more than
24,800 people.

Young Associate and Family Activities

Through Young Associate and Family Activities, Smithso-
nian resources are introduced to young people, ages four
to fifteen, and their parents and adult friends. Classes,
workshops, monthly free films for families, tours, and per-

formances are tailored to their ages and interests. Innova-
tive adult-child classes and workshops enable adults and
children to learn together. Summer Camp sessions are
team taught, combining talents of teachers of different dis-
ciplines. In 1984, 168 Young Associate and Family Activi-
ties attracted an attendance of more than 11,300
individuals.

Discovery Theater

Discovery Theater presents entertainment and educational
experiences for young people and their families, October
through June. Two performances a day were presented,
Tuesday through Saturday, with extra performances dur-
ing Black History Month. Learning Guides are produced
by Resident Associate Program staff and furnished free to
group leaders. Over 61,800 individuals attended the 354
performances during the season, a 31 percent increase over
the previous season; approximately two-thirds consisted
of groups from local school systems. For the first time,
Discovery Theater sponsored an art and writing competi-
tion from local elementary schools, with winning works
incorporated in some of the performances.

Volunteers

A total of 420 volunteers provided invaluable assistance to
the program, monitoring activities, and performing vital
office duties. The 72 volunteer office workers and moni-
tors represent the equivalent of twelve full-time staff mem-
bers.

Summary

Fiscal year 1985 was a thriving, ebullient year for the Resi-
dent Associate Program with high attendance, strong
membership retention. The Resident Associate Program
celebrated its z2oth anniversary in September 1985, offering
a rich selection of activities including appearances by Carl
Sagan; Jehan Sadat; Melina Mercouri; Karen Akers, Dan-
iel Duell; and May Sarton. An anniversary serigraph was
created by artist Gene Davis. Many more anniversary
events were planned for later in the fall. The “20 for the
2oth” theme elicited many new members and major press
coverage, as well as enthusiastic support from current
members.

173
OF TRUSTEES —

Reading Is Fundamental, Inc.

Mrs. Elliot Richardson, Chairman
Ruth Graves, President

Reading Is Fundamental, Inc. (RIF) is a national, non-
profit organization dedicated to creating a literate Ameri-
can citizenry by helping communities introduce young
people to books. Since its founding nearly twenty years
ago as a small, inner-city reading motivation project in the
District of Columbia, RIF has put more than sixty-five
million books into the hands of America’s young people.

Today there are 3,300 RIF projects in 10,224 sites, oper-
ating in all fifty states, the District of Columbia, Puerto
Rico, the Virgin Islands, and Guam. Last year, RIF’s net-
work of volunteers reached more than 2.2 million young
people with 7.2 million books. Sponsors of RIF projects
include schools, libraries, Indian reservations, housing
projects, migrant worker camps, detention halls, schools
for the handicapped, service organizations, and many
other nonprofit and public agencies.

To prevent today’s youngsters from becoming the illiter-
acy statistics of tomorrow, RIF projects hold book distri-
butions, on an average of three times a year, where
children are free to choose and keep the books that interest
them. Samuel Johnson once said, “A man ought to read as
his inclination leads him, for what he reads as a task will
do him little good.” RIF’s success in converting reluctant
readers into booklovers underscores the truth of this
adage.

RIF: A Public-Private Partnership

The New York Times once described the RIF program as
“one of those rare examples of how the Government has
joined the grass roots community and virtually everyone
has wound up applauding.”

RIF has been remarkably successful in mobilizing the
private sector to promote literacy. More than 98,874 local
citizens contribute millions of man hours to operate RIF
projects; some 6,046 businesses and community organiza-
tions provide matching funds, goods, and services; 350
book suppliers offer special services and discounts (averag-
ing forty percent) to RIF projects; and scores of founda-
tions and corporations make generous grants.

In 1976, Congress, noting RIF’s effectiveness in promot-
ing literacy, created the Inexpensive Book Distribution
Program (IBDP) and modeled it on RIF. The IBDP, which
RIF operates under contract from the Department of Edu-
cation, permits RIF to match with Federal funds the local
funds volunteers raise to buy books.

Highlights of 1985

Among the year’s activities was a series of workshops for
parents made possible by a grant from the General Electric »
Foundation and held in cooperation with local projects in —
major Cities across the country. Attended by approxi-
mately one thousand parents, these workshops featured
presentations by experts in the field of children’s literature
and practical sessions on how parents can promote reading
in the home.

A statewide RIF conference in Phoenix, attended by
more than two hundred Arizona educators, librarians,
community and business leaders, public officials, and RIF
representatives, demonstrated the support RIF enjoys
throughout the state. Speakers included Phoenix Mayor
Terry Goddard, local author Byrd Baylor, and Dan Fader,
Michigan educator and author of Hooked on Books.

Another of the year’s highlights was a visit by Mrs.
Hosni Mubarak, wife of the president of Egypt, to a RIF
distribution for some six hundred Washington, D.C., area
youngsters. Mrs. Mubarak has been active in promoting
literacy in her own country and is particularly interested in
RIF’s method of getting children into books and reading.

During April, Reading Is Fun Week was again celebrated
across the nation in memory of RIF’s founder, Margaret
McNamara. Among the special events marking this occa-
sion was a Read-In held on the lawn of the Vice President’s
House. Speakers included Mrs. George Bush, RIF board
member; Education Secretary William J. Bennett; and
authors Pearl Bailey, Tomie dePaola, and Frank Herbert.

On the last day of RIF week, publisher and New York
Mets owner Nelson Doubleday sponsored a RIF Day at
Shea Stadium in New York, which was attended by 170
young people in New York area RIF projects. Mrs. Bush
threw out the first ball of the game while Diamond Vision,
the huge screen that shows instant replays, flashed the
words “Reading Is Fundamental.”

Through a grant from the National Home Library
Foundation, RIF conducted a nationwide campaign to
promote recreational reading, which culminated in a
drawing for a National RIF Reader. Mrs. Bush, Mrs.
Lynda Johnson Robb, RIF board member, and Smithso-
nian Secretary Robert McC. Adams were among those
who drew the names of the winner and runners-up at a
ceremony in the Smithsonian Castle Building. The
National RIF Reader won a trip to Washington, D.C.,
during RIF Week and a library of books donated by pub-
lishers. It was estimated that during the two-week cam- |
paign more than a million youngsters had read atotalof
285 years, four months, and twenty-one days.

On the opening day of the American Booksellers Associ-
ation convention in San Francisco last May, B. Dalton
Bookseller and Penguin Books cosponsored a gala RIF
book distribution for some six hundred children and their
four hundred parents. Youngsters were entertained by Jim
Davis, who drew pictures of his famous cat Garfield, and
parents attended a workshop featuring Jim Trelease,
author of The Read-Aloud Handbook.

In 1985, the New York-based advertising agency the Al
Paul Lefton Company scripted, directed, and filmed a
series of RIF public service announcements (PSAs), featur-
ing the talents of Michael Warren and Charles Haid (better
known as Hill and Renko on NBC TV’s “Hill Street
Blues”). Both agency and actors volunteered their time to
RIF. Since RIF was approved by the Advertising Council as
a public service organization fourteen years ago, more
than $35 million worth of free time on radio and television
stations and in print media has been donated to RIF.

Of special note are the many ways corporations, foun-
dations, and publishers have found to benefit RIF. A man-
ufacturer of children’s clothing, General Sportswear, for
example, arranged to donate twenty-five cents to RIF for
each entry in a children’s modeling contest. Waldenbooks
held a golf and tennis RIF benefit in which 144 golfers and
64 tennis players, all from the publishing community, par-
ticipated. In 1985, New York Life Foundation established a
grant to bring books to some 9,000 Native American
young people in nine states, many in economically
depressed areas. And New American Library (NAL), to
mark the twenty-fifth anniversary of its Signet Classic
imprint, earmarked one cent to RIF for each Signet Classic
sold in 1984 and encouraged retailers to do the same by
agreeing to match each penny donated with an additional

penny.

Summary

Today we are witnessing a rise in both illiteracy and ali-
teracy (the disinclination to read by those who have the
skill). But the increase in bookless homes foreseen in
George Orwell’s 1984 can be averted. Through RIF, young-
sters have ready access to a variety of books and parents
are becoming involved in their children’s reading.

A recent report on reading issued by a National Institute
of Education (NIE) commission draws many conclusions
that corroborate the effectiveness of RIF’s method of
encouraging reading. The commission states that “Read-
ing itself is fun . . . An essential step in reaching that goal
(of literacy) is to provide children with ready access to

4.
ji ia
f |

Mrs. Hosni Mubarak, wife of the president of Egypt, talks with
children about books during a RIF distribution in southeast
Washington, D.C. (Photograph by Rick Reinhard)

books that are interesting to them.” The NIE report
emphasizes books in the home, parental involvement, and
reading often, and for pleasure.

Public demand for the RIF program has never been
greater. In the last year RIF has been forced to turn away
more than one thousand groups for lack of book funds. A
key priority for the coming year will be to expand RIF’s
outreach and to devise ways to assure that America’s chil-
dren grow up reading.

LATE

oncon Wilson International
Center for Scholars

James H. Billington, Director

The Wilson Center—with the Kennedy Center for the Per-
forming Arts and the National Gallery of Art—is one of
three institutions with mixed trust/public funding created
by the Congress within the Smithsonian Institution in
Washington, D.C., fulfilling a national mission under a
board appointed by the President of the United States. The
Wilson Center is an active workshop and switchboard for
scholarship at the highest levels. Since its opening fifteen
years ago this fall, it has gained widespread recognition for
the work of its fellows in mining the scholarly riches of
Washington, for its many meetings that bring together the
world of affairs and the world of ideas, and for its demo-
cratic openness to all comers through its annual fellowship
competition.

Each year, some fifty fellows are brought in through
open international competition involving ever-increasing
numbers of applicants from a wide range of backgrounds,
disciplines, cultures, and nations. A broad spectrum of
ideas is, in turn, shared with a nonspecialized national
audience through The Wilson Ouarterly, which has more
subscribers than any other scholarly quarterly journal in
the English-speaking world.

The Wilson Center seeks to render a service to the world
and to the Washington, D.C., community by throwing
open its core fellowship program to all interested individ-
uals. Fellows are selected for the promise, importance, and
appropriateness of their projects on the recommendation
of broadly based academic panels outside the center. The
fellows come for limited periods of study in the broadly
inclusive program on History, Culture, and Society, as well
as in special programs for research on Russia and the
Soviet Union (the Kennan Institute for Advanced Russian
Studies), Latin America, international security, Asia,
American society and politics, Eastern Europe, and West-
ern Europe. Each program is directed by a scholar on the
staff.

In keeping with its mandate to symbolize and strengthen
the fruitful relations between the worlds of learning and
public affairs, the center sponsors conferences and semi-
nars on topics of special current interest to both worlds. In
1985 it brought together scholars from diverse disciplines,
members of Congress, representatives of the executive
branch, businessmen, journalists, military experts, writ-
ers, politicians, educators, and diplomats to consider a
variety of issues, examine current questions, celebrate
major events, and participate in evaluative discussions.

Increasingly, people from different regions of the United
States meet and interact with foreign scholars and mem-
bers of Washington’s growing intellectual community.
From late September 1984 to May 198s, the center spon-

178

sored five major conferences in cooperation with the
Ditchley Foundations of the United Kingdom on “The
United States, Britain, and Europe: Changed Relation- |
ships in a Changing World.” Alternating venue between

The Wilson Center and Ditchley Park, outside Oxford,
conferees examined such issues as the Anglo-American |
alliance since 1945, decolonization and independence in the |
Third World, the future of East-West relations, strategic
interests and arms control, and transatlantic approaches to
world economic problems.

Participants in the Ditchley/ Wilson Center series
included Lord Beloff, professor of government and public
administration emeritus at Oxford University; Roger
Louis, professor of English history and culture at the Uni-
versity of Texas at Austin; Lord Saint Brides, former Brit-
ish High Commissioner in Pakistan and India; Sir Harold
Beeley, former assistant undersecretary in the British For-
eign and Commonwealth Office; Roderick MacFarquhar,
professer of Chinese studies at Harvard and a former fel-
low of The Wilson Center; A.P. Thornton, professor of
history at the University of Toronto; Robert Rotberg, pro-
fessor of political science and history at MIT; Prosser Gif-
ford, deputy director of The Wilson Center; George C.
McGhee, former ambassador of the United States to the
Federal Republic of Germany; Robert F. Goheen, former
ambassador of the United States to India; Sir Michael Pal-
liser, former permanent undersecretary of state in the Brit-
ish Foreign and Commonwealth Office; Elliot Richardson,
senior resident partner at Milbank, Tweed, Hadley and
McCloy; Sir James Eberle, director of the Royal Institute
of International Affairs; Richard Gardner, professor of law
and international organizations at Columbia University
Law School; Sidney Jones, undersecretary of commerce for |
economic policy; and David Reynolds, director of studies
in history at Christ’s College, Cambridge University. |

The center’s Kennan Institute sponsored a dinner March
6 for a delegation from the Supreme Soviet of the USSR,
which was on a visit to the United States after a similar
delegation from the U.S. Congress had traveled to the
Soviet Union. Joining members of the delegation, headed
by Politburo member Vladimir V. Scherbitsky, was a con-
gressional contingent that included Representatives
Thomas Downey, Thomas S. Foley, Richard Gephardt,
David Obey, Timothy Wirth, Henry Waxman, and Sidney
Yates. Among other participants at the dinner were George
F. Kennan, former ambassador of the United States to the
USSR; Anatoly Dobrynin, ambassador of the USSR to the
United States; David Hamburg, president of the Carnegie
Corporation; Donald M. Kendall, president of PepsiCo
Inc.; and Ted Turner, president of Turner Broadcasting.

ont ad

Elliot Richardson, former ambassador and Wilson Center fel-
low, presides at the concluding session of a conference at the
Wilson Center on “The United States, Britain, and Europe:
Changed Relationships in a Changing World.” To his left is Pros-
ser Gifford, Wilson Center deputy director; to his right, Richard
Portes, professor of economics at the University of London.

In cooperation with the National Organization on Dis-
ability, The Wilson Center sponsored a mid-September
meeting with U.N. Secretary-General Javier Pérez de Cuél-
lar, who expressed the hope that the world in the year
2000 would show “universal respect” for the disabled,
would put their skills and talents to good use, and would
“substantially reduce” the causes of disability that are
“subject to human control.” Others who spoke that after-
noon were Margaret Heckler, secretary of health and
human services and a member of the Wilson Center board;
Frederick Robbins, president of the National Academy of
Medicine; Karl Deutsch, professor of international peace
at Harvard; pollster George Gallup; Alan Reich, president
of the National Organization on Disability; James
Roosevelt, Jr., of the Warm Springs Foundation; and Mar-
cela Pérez de Cuéllar, honorary chairperson of the World
Committee for the U.N. Decade of Disabled Persons.

Culminating the fiscal year was a three-day conference
on “Spain in the 1980s: The Domestic Transition and a
Changing International Role.” Cosponsored by the Insti-
tuto de Cooperacién Iberoamericano of Madrid and the
Wilson Center’s West European Program, the event exam-
ined the significance of Spain’s decade-long transition to
parliamentary democracy. Not only is Spain seeking a big-
ger role in the European and North Atlantic communities

of nations, but states in Latin America and elsewhere are
beginning to take a hard look at the Spanish record for
clues to effecting such a transition. Among the participants
and discussants were William J. Bennett, U.S. secretary of
education; John Brademas, president of New York Univer-
sity; Raymond Carr, warden of St. Antony’s College,
Oxford University; Filipe Gonzalez, prime minister of
Spain; Richard Lugar, chairman of the U.S. Senate Com-
mittee on Foreign Relations; José Maria Maravall, Spain’s
minister of education and science; Carlos Andrés Peréz,
former president of Venezuela; Arturo Rivera y Damas,
archbishop of San Salvador; José Pedro Pérez Llorca,
former foreign minister of Spain; and Xavier Rubert de
Ventos, a member of the Spanish Congress of Deputies.

In addition to these large conferences and major events
in 1985, the center sponsored a number of more informal
discussions that brought together statesmen and scholars.
At one such meeting in early May, Saburo Okita, a former
Wilson Center fellow and former foreign minister of
Japan, discussed U.S.-Japanese relations in light of new
measures by the Japanese government to ease access to for-
eign goods.

The center’s fellows continued to come from all over the
world, from many disciplines, and from many areas of the
United States. Among its 1985 fellows were Lawrence
Lipking, professor of humanities at Northwestern; Claude
Ake, dean of social sciences at the University of Port Har-
court in Nigeria; Jacquelyn Hall, director of the Southern
Oral History Program at the University of North Carolina
at Chapel Hill; Indian columnist and author Rajmohan
Gandhi; Istvan Deak, professor of history at Columbia;
Rashid Khalidi, associate professor of political science at
the American University of Beirut; Bohdan Bociurkiw,
professor of political science at Carleton University in
Ottawa; and Gerhard Wettig, deputy head of foreign pol-
icy research at the Federal Institute for Eastern and Inter-
national Affairs in Cologne.

The result of this broad and heterogeneous mix of fel-
lows is an intellectual life greater than the sum of its parts:
the collegial atmosphere provides an opportunity for
learning and communication that transcends national and
academic boundaries for the benefit of all.

179
The John FE Kennedy Center
for the Performing Arts

Roger L. Stevens, Chairman

The John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts,
organized by an Act of Congress in 1958 as a self-
sustaining bureau of the Smithsonian Institution, is both a
presidential memorial under the aegis of the Department
of the Interior and a performing arts center directed by a
board of trustees whose citizen members are appointed by
the President of the United States. Six congressional repre-
sentatives and nine designated ex-officio representatives of
the executive branch complete the membership of forty-
five. This annual report of the Kennedy Center’s activities
encompasses all the programming presented in its five the-
aters.

Unlike many regional performing arts centers, the Ken-
nedy Center, as the national cultural center, is specifically
directed by its authorizing legislation to develop and
present a broad array of performing arts programming,
including theater, music, opera, ballet, and dance. The
Kennedy Center must also sponsor educational and public
service activities in Washington and across the country in
order to provide the broadest possible public access. The
Kennedy Center annually seeks millions of dollars in pri-
vate contributions in order to meet its performing arts pro-
gramming goals since no direct federal appropriations are
provided to fulfill this congressional mandate. This year,
however, an endowment campaign has been launched in
order to financially secure the center’s future. The endow-
ment will make possible longer-range artistic program-
ming to help ensure the high quality of that programming.

The Kennedy Center’s commitment to creating and pre-
senting outstanding productions and the world’s finest art-
ists resulted in many programs of great distinction this
year. The Royal Shakespeare Company performed Much
Ado About Nothing and Cyrano de Bergerac in the Opera
House. Major ballet premieres were given by the American
Ballet Theatre, the Joffrey Ballet, San Francisco Ballet,
Ballet West, and Dance Theatre of Harlem. The American
National Theater—jointly established last year in its logi-
cal home, the national cultural center, by the Kennedy
Center and the American National Theater and
Academy—presented its charter season in 1985. It included
a landmark revival of Eugene O’Neill’s The Iceman Com-
eth and a monumental production of the rarely staged epic
The Count of Monte Cristo. And, with the AT &T Per-
forming Arts Festival at the Kennedy Center, AT&T broke
new ground in the field of corporate support of the arts
when it sponsored American National Theater’s “Chicago
Season” —four plays from the Wisdom Bridge and Step-
penwolf theaters, two of which were free to the public.

180

Performing Arts Programming

The 1984-85 season at Kennedy Center was attended by
1,189,185 people in the Opera House, Concert Hall,

Eisenhower, and Terrace theaters. Programming highlights —
are described in the sections that follow.

Drama and Musical Theater

The theatrical season at the Kennedy Center illustrated the —
vitality and excellence of theater all across America and
around the world.

On the international level, Great Britain’s Royal Shake-
speare Company presented two glorious productions in
repertory in the Opera House—Shakespeare’s Much Ado
About Nothing and Rostand’s Cyrano de Bergerac, both
starring Derek Jacobi and Sinead Cusack. From Japan, the
monumental Grand Kabuki brought the largest troupe
ever to perform in America—ninety-one actors, including
two Living National Treasures—to perform several classics
of the Japanese stage. As part of the National Festival of
India, a week of “The India Festival of Music and Dance”
presented that country’s foremost dances and musicians on
the Eisenhower Theater stage. And under the direction of
Peter Sellars, the American National Theater (ANT) began
to fulfill its goal of presenting the outstanding work of
leading foreign companies by importing the Suzuki Com-
pany of Toga, Japan, and its version of Euripides’ The Tro-
jan Women.

During its charter season, ANT also produced three
original, full-scale productions in the Eisenhower
Theater—Shakespeare’s Henry IV, Part I, James O’Neill’s
The Count of Monte Cristo, and Eugene O’Neill’s The Ice-
man Cometh.

Two of the nation’s busiest regional theater centers were
well represented at the Kennedy Center. The American
National Theater, with the support of AT &T, brought two
outstanding Chicago-based theater companies: the Step-
penwolf Company presented Lynn Seifert’s Coyote Ugly
and gave free performances of David Rabe’s Streamers,
while the Wisdom Bridge Theater performed Shozo Sato’s
Kabuki Medea and free performances of Robert Falls’ In
the Belly of the Beast. New England’s Goodspeed Opera
House presented the heartwarming musical Take Me
Along in the Eisenhower Theater.

Broadway and Off-Broadway also contributed to the
Center’s theatrical life with performances of the hit musi-
cal My One and Only, a presentation that broke box-office
records for a musical at the Kennedy Center; Hal

Holbrook’s enduring one-man show, Mark Twain,
Tonight!; a revival of the classic musical, West Side Story;
and the New York Shakespeare Festival production of Vic-
tor Rozov’s contemporary Soviet comedy, The Nest of the
Wood Grouse.

The list of outstanding performers who participated in
this diverse season included Jason Robards, Barnard
Hughes, Donald Moffat, Richard Thomas, Roscoe Lee
Browne, Zakes Mokae, Pattie LuPone, John McMartin,
Sandy Duncan, Tommy Tune, Rex Smith, Eli Wallach, and
Anne Jackson.

Dance

The 1984-85 ballet season at the Kennedy Center saw sey-
eral important premieres and debuts take place.

The San Francisco Ballet, the oldest professional ballet
company in the United States, made its Kennedy Center
debut with two repertory programs which included the
East Coast premieres of the epic A Song for Dead Warriors
and the joyous To the Beatles.

This season was unusually fruitful in the number of new
productions of full-length ballets. Both the Joffrey Ballet
and American Ballet Theatre premiered their major full-
length productions of Romeo and Juliet during their Opera
House engagements. The Dance Theatre of Harlem, spon-
sored by the Washington Performing Arts Society, gave the
Washington premiere of its new Giselle, set in the Louisi-
ana Bayou, while Ballet West performed for the first time
on the East Coast its historic reconstruction of August
Bournonville’s exotic Abdallah—a work thought to be lost
for more than 300 years.

Dance America, sponsored jointly by the Washington
Performing Art Society and the Kennedy Center, brought
back three of the nation’s most important modern dance
ensembles—Crowsnest, the Paul Taylor Dance Company,
and Elisa Monte Dance Company. Meanwhile, the fiery
Maria Benitez Dance Company and Poland’s internation-
ally acclaimed Mazowze provided extraordinary evenings
of folk and ethnic dancing.

And, once again, the Opera House stage was covered in
ice as the astonishing John Curry Skaters presented their
unique blend of poetic ballet choreography and champion-
ship ice skating for three weeks in August.

Music

A wealth of subscription series concerts and individual

musical events filled the Kennedy Center with exemplary
performances the year round.

This year marked the tricentennials of both George Fred-
eric Handel and Johann Sebastian Bach, and many events
celebrated these historic occasions. The ninth Kennedy
Center Handel Festival, for example, opened with a gala
performance of Giulio Cesare. Subsequent performances
included the American premieres of the Occasional Orato-
rio and Alessandro.

The popularity of the Terrace Concerts continued to
grow with several performances in the 1984-85 season
breaking box-office records. Among the season’s high-
lights were recitals and concerts by pianist Peter Serkin,
the Guarneri String Quartet, violinist Uto Ughi, the Art
Ensemble of Chicago, soprano Edith Mathis, and the
Brandenburg Ensemble.

The annual summer visits of the Saint Paul Chamber
Orchestra and Lincoln Center’s Mostly Mozart Festival
were made even more appealing this year with dancing
and light refreshments on the River Terrace after each per-
formance.

The Friedheim Awards, which recognize American com-
position in symphonic and chamber music in alternating
years, awarded first prize for 1984 in the category of
orchestral music to Edward Applebaum for his Symphony
No. 2.

Other musical organizations returning for their annual
series included the Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Cen-
ter, Theater Chamber Players of Kennedy Center, and the
Young Concert Artists.

The annual Holiday Festival, noted for its free events,
filled the theaters and the Grand Foyer with music and
dance throughout the season. “Millennium,” authentic
chamber music of the season played on ancient and mod-
ern instruments, and the “Singing Christmas Tree” of
young people from Greenville, South Carolina, made their
first appearances.

The roster of pop and country music artists presented by
the Kennedy Center in the Concert Hall this season
included Loretta Lynn, Tom Jones, the Pointer Sisters,
Johnny Mathis, Emmylou Harris, and Victor Borge.

Finally, the Metropolitan Opera presented seven grand
performances of six different operas in as many days:
Lohengrin, Rigoletto, Cosi fan tutte, Simon Boccanegra,
La Boheme, and Eugene Onegin.

Kennedy Center Affiliates

Many performances given at the Kennedy Center are pro-

181
duced by one of the Center’s three resident affiliates: the
American Film Institute (AFI), which presents classic
films, independent features, foreign films, and contempo-
rary video works in its 224-seat theater; the National Sym-
phony Orchestra under the artistic direction of Mstislav
Rostropovich; the Washington Opera, which this season
presented Puccini’s La Boheme, Lehar’s The Merry
Widow, Mozart’s Le nozze di Figaro, Bellini’s La sonnam-
bula, Rossini’s LTtaliana in Algeri, Stravinsky’s The Rake’s
Progress, and Menotti’s The Medium and The Telephone.
In addition, the Washington Performing Arts Society pre-
sented 52 greatly varied and exceptional performances dur-
ing its nine-month season.

Public Service Programming

The Kennedy Center is specifically directed by Congress to
carry out a broad range of educational and public service
programs. With the exception of partial U.S. Department
of Education funding of three national education pro-
grams, these programs are supported by funds privately
raised by the Kennedy Center from individuals, founda-
tions, and corporations. In fiscal year 1985, $3.37 million
was allocated from the center’s private contributions for
the support of the national education programs, cultural
diversity activities, and the privately subsidized presenta-
tion of theater, music, and dance, including many free and
low-admission performances and events enjoyed by one
million people in Washington, D.C., and around the coun-
try.

In addition, 16,000 people visited and used the Perform-
ing Arts Library.

Specially Priced Ticket Program

Since it opened in September 1971, the Kennedy Center has
maintained a Specially Priced Ticket Program through
which tickets to Center-produced and -presented attrac-
tions are made available at half price to students, handi-
capped persons, senior citizens age sixty-five and over,
low-income groups, and military personnel in grades E-1

Derek Jacobi in the Royal Shakespeare Company’s production of
Edmond Rostand’s Cyrano de Bergerac in the Kennedy Center
Opera House.

through E-4. The attendant costs, in terms of reduced rev-
enue potential and administrative overhead, are borne by
the Center itself and are viewed as a part of its educational
and public service responsibilities.

During the twelve-month period ending September 30,
1985, 45,768 tickets for attractions produced and presented
by the Center were sold at half price. The sale of these
tickets at full price would have resulted in additional gross
income to the Center of $419,487. Independent producers
are also requested to participate in the program by making
a percentage of their tickets available for sale at half price.
During the same twelve-month period, combined half-
price ticket sales totalled s66,797. The sale of these tickets
at full price would have resulted in a total additional gross
income of $850,640 to the Center and the independent pro-
ducers.

Education Programming

As the national cultural center, the Kennedy Center has a
unique responsibility to advance all the arts in the educa-
tion of the nation’s youth. To meet this challenge in 1985,
the Kennedy Center Education Program sponsored perfor-
mances and other events that reached nearly 4 million peo-
ple nationwide through three components: the Alliance for
Arts Education, the American College Theatre Festival,
and Programs for Children and Youth. These programs
were supported in part by a generous grant from the U.S.
Department of Education and major private support from
the Kennedy Center Corporate Fund as well as individuals,
foundations, and other corporations. Each component
works closely with Very Special Arts (formerly the
National Committee, Arts with the Handicapped), an edu-
cational affiliate of the Kennedy Center.

Programs for Children and Youth (PCY) is the produc-
tion arm of the Education Program, providing more than
150 free performances and events to audiences of more
than 60,000 at Kennedy Center in 1985. Among these were
a fall performance series, a Cultural Diversity Festival, and
IMAGINATION CELEBRATION, the national children’s
arts festival held at Kennedy Center for two weeks each
spring.

Reflecting the Center’s commitment to development of
new works for young people, Programs for Children and
Youth commissioned three new works in 1985: The Electric
Dance Transformer, a high-tech dance piece by the Ririe/
Woodbury Dance Company; Kids Writes in the Nation’s
Capital, based on the writing of some 2,000 Washington,
D.C., children; and Lady Liberty, a musical play by
Theatreworks/USA, celebrating the centennial of the

183

Statue of Liberty. PCY also provided drama classes for
young people and workshops in technical and musical the-
ater.

The Alliance for Arts Education (AAE) is a national net-
work of fifty-three committees in the states and special
jurisdictions that develops and promotes the arts in the
nation’s educational systems. It also recognizes exemplary
programs, students, and educators for their efforts in the
arts and education. For instance, eight arts educators were
awarded Summer Fellowships for Teachers of the Arts,
which brought them to Kennedy Center for three weeks to
work on an artistic project of their own design. A total of
thirty-two school principals and superintendents were
cited for fostering the arts in their schools and school dis-
tricts. AAE also coproduced, along with the Presidential
Scholars Commission and the National Foundation for
Advancement in the Arts, the presentation of twenty Presi-
dential Scholars in the Arts in a performance in the Con-
cert Hall. The Kennedy Center Award for Excellence,
which recognizes an acclaimed artist for contributions to
the arts and to young people, was given by AAE in 1985 to
Burl Ives, who now serves as its National Spokesperson
for the Arts in Education. The award has been renamed
the Frances Holleman Breathitt Award for Excellence in
recognition of the many contributions to arts education of
the late Kennedy Center trustee and Education Committee
chairperson. AAE also sponsored national Town Meet-
ings, regional and state conferences, and published Inter-
change, a newsletter that reaches nearly 6,000 people
across the nation.

Outreach IMAGINATION CELEBRATION festivals,
now presented through AAE, in 1985 welcomed the partic-
ipation of nearly 320,000 young people, families, and
teachers in festivals at twenty-one sites in eleven states and
the District of Columbia. Festivals were held for the first
time in Kansas City, Missouri, in Winston-Salem, North
Carolina, and in Louisville, Kentucky.

For the seventeenth year, the American College Theatre
Festival (ACTF) combined the efforts of theater educators
and theater professionals to provide a national showcase
for college theater. More than 12,000 students and 2,000
faculty members from nearly 400 schools participated in
1985. A record 572 college theater productions were
entered and evaluated at local levels; nearly sixty were
selected for twelve regional festivals. Six finalists were
brought to Washington for the national festival at Kennedy
Center. They were Sweeney Todd, California State Univer-
sity, Los Angeles; Bruinhaha, University of California, Los
Angeles; Excursion Fare, University of Oregon, Eugene;
How I Got That Story, Virginia Tech, Blacksburg; What I

184

Did Last Summer, University of Tulsa; and Hiawatha,
University of Richmond. Audiences for all productions
entered in ACTF XVII totaled more than 1 million.

ACTF also cosponsored numerous awards programs in
playwriting, design, criticism, acting, and theater adminis-
tration. It cosponsored for the eighth year the Shenandoah |
Valley Playwrights Retreat in Verona, Virginia, and
selected nine college seniors for a career development sym-
posium that culminated in showcases for producers and
casting agents in Washington and New York.

ACTF is produced by the Kennedy Center in coopera-
tion with the University and College Theatre Association,

a division of the American Theatre Association.

All components of the Kennedy Center Education Pro-
gram are supported individually by an Educational Serv-
ices division, which uses the performing arts resources at
Kennedy Center as the basis for workshops and other edu-_
cational formats and events for teachers, parents, and the —
general public. In 1985 approximately 2,000 teachers and |
more than 4,000 high school students were direct partici-
pants in these programs.

Funding

Completed in 1971 at a cost of $85 million, approximately
half of which was contributed by the government and the
rest by the private sector, the Kennedy Center is unique in
its operation as both a performing arts center and a presi-
dential memorial. The National Park Service provides for
the operating costs of the presidential memorial aspects of
the building; the performing arts center is charged a pro-
rata share totaling more than sr million annually. Mean-
while, the Kennedy Center is wholly responsible for the
cost of maintaining and improving its theater, backstage, |
and office facilities. |
Artistic programming at the Kennedy Center and its |
day-to-day performing arts operations have been almost
entirely privately supported. In addition to supporting the
performing arts which fill its five houses, the Center also
makes possible a wide range of education and public serv-
ice activities for which it raises private funds. Since the
Center’s opening in 1971, foundations, corporations, and
individuals have contributed more than $38 million for
these purposes. The nation’s business community has
played an important part in this effort through the Corpo- —
rate Fund established in 1977 by a group of dedicated busi-
ness leaders. Under the leadership of Corporate Fund
Chairman John F. Welch, Jr., chairman of the General
Electric Company, the 1985 Corporate Fund contributed

more than $2.24 million from nearly 300 corporations.

In recent years, less than 3 percent of the annual operat-
ing budget of the Kennedy Center has been from federal
sources and most of these funds have been received from
the U.S. Department of Education for the Center’s educa-
tion programs.

In 1985 the Kennedy Center received a $1 million chal-
lenge grant from the National Endowment for the Arts
(NEA) to help establish an endowment for the Kennedy
Center. This is the first major grant the Center has received
from the NEA, and it must be matched three to one with
private funds. This grant will be used for an endowment to
help support the Center’s programs.

Kennedy Center Honors

The Kennedy Center Honors were first awarded by the
board of trustees in 1978 to recognize the contributions to
the cultural life of our nation by its finest performing art-
ists. An annual event, the Honors Gala is the center’s most
important fundraising benefit; the 1984 gala raised just
under st million in net proceeds to support Kennedy Cen-
ter programming. The 1984 honorees were Lena Horne,
Danny Kaye, Gian Carlo Menotti, Arthur Miller, and
Isaac Stern. Preceding the 1984 Honors Gala in the Opera
House was a reception at the White House, hosted by
President and Mrs. Ronald Reagan. Among the per-
formers who participated in the evening’s tributes, later
broadcast to more than 25 million viewers by CBS as a hol-
iday season special sponsored solely by General Motors,
were Debbie Allen, Lillian Gish, Karl Malden, Itzhak
Perlman, Roberta Peters, Carl Reiner, Julius Rudel,
George Segal, Eli Wallach, and Dionne Warwick.

Friends of the Kennedy Center

The Friends of the Kennedy Center is a nationwide organi-
zation of volunteers and donor members founded in 1966
to raise grassroots support for the building of a national
cultural center. Today, the organization consists of 27,000
donor members and 450 volunteers.

Revenues from the Friends membership program, gift
shops, and fundraising events help to support a number of
national and community outreach projects. In June 1985,
for instance, the Friends organization sponsored the first
Kennedy Center open house, a day-long festival of free
performances and activities that drew crowds of more than
50,000. Other public service programs supported in part

by Friends revenues included the Specially Priced Ticket
Program, the American College Theatre Festival, the
IMAGINATION CELEBRATION festivals for children,
and free organ concerts for the public. The volunteer force
staffed the Friends’ gift shops, provided special assistance
to handicapped visitors, administered the Specially Priced
Ticket Program, and conducted free tours of the Center.
In May 1985, the first official Friends chapter outside
Washington, D.C., was established in Dallas, Texas.

Board of Trustees

The Kennedy Center is independently administered as a
bureau of the Smithsonian Institution by a board of trust-
ees, thirty of whose members are citizens appointed by the
President of the United States for ten-year overlapping
terms. The remaining fifteen members are legislatively des-
ignated ex officio representatives of the legislative and
executive branches of the federal government.

The President's Advisory Committee on the Arts

Established by the 1958 Act of Congress that created the
National Cultural Center, the fifty-one-member President’s
Advisory Committee on the Arts is appointed by the Presi-
dent of the United States to serve during his term of office.
Its objectives are to support and promote the Kennedy
Center. Representing membership from forty-nine states,
the committee during the past year attended four meetings
at the Center; its members concentrated their efforts on
private fundraising and national outreach programs.
National Gallery of Art

J. Carter Brown, Director

The National Gallery of Art, although formally estab-
lished as a bureau of the Smithsonian Institution, is an
autonomous and separately administered organization. It
is governed by its own board of trustees, the ex officio
members of which are the Chief Justice of the United
States, the Secretary of State, the Secretary of the Treasury,
and the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution. In May,
the general trustees accepted with regret Paul Mellon’s
decision to retire from the board. Franklin D. Murphy was
elected chairman of the board, with John R. Stevenson
and Carlisle H. Humelsine continuing to serve as president
and vice-president, respectively. Ruth Carter Stevenson
continues to serve as a general trustee. Robert H. Smith,
president of the Charles E. Smith Construction Company,
was elected to fill the vacancy caused by Mr. Mellon’s
retirement.

During the year, visitors entering both of the National
Gallery’s buildings numbered 5,079,858. Distingushed visi-
tors included the Vice President and Mrs. Bush, India’s
Prime Minister and Mrs. Rajiv Gandhi, Queen Noor of
Jordan, and the Prime Minister of Turkey.

Eight new galleries were opened on the main floor of the
Gallery to display seventy-five large fourteenth-
seventeenth-century Italian sculptures, some of which have
been off exhibition for several years. For the first time
since 1971, the finest and richest collection of Italian
Renaissance sculpture in the Western Hemisphere is now
fully on display, with almost a thousand objects on perma-
nent exhibition.

A number of changes in the programs offered by the
education division underlined the Gallery’s policy of offer-
ing quality service to the largest audience possible. The
information unit of the new department of public pro-
grams has increased its staff many times by the recruitment
of approximately eighty volunteers from the metropolitan
area to staff the three information desks. The interpreta-
tion unit, consisting of fifteen staff lecturers, has revised
and augmented the range of programs available to the visi-
tor. In addition to the traditional general tours and special
subject tours and talks, the department now offers lecture
courses which are given over several weeks on particular
subjects covered by the Gallery collections and by the tem-
porary exhibitions.

Two guides to temporary exhibitions were written for
children and a new program was developed for parents
and their children on Saturday mornings.

A week-long experimental summer program for area
children ages eleven to thirteen was developed in coopera-
tion with the District of Columbia recreation department.
Three groups of fifteen young people met for one hour

186

every morning with Gallery staff at their recreation cen-
ters, then came to the Gallery for twa hours of various
activities.

In connection with the exhibition of contemporary
printmakers, Gemini G.E.L.: Art and Collaboration, three
artists, Robert Rauschenberg, Roy Lichtenstein, and
David Hockney, were interviewed by prominent critics or
curators before standing-room-only audiences.

Among the thirty-two guest speakers who gave lectures
on Sunday afternoons were Richard A. Wollheim, 1984
A.W. Mellon Lecturer in the Fine Arts, who gave six talks
on Painting as an Art, and James S. Ackerman, 1985 A.W.
Mellon Lecturer in the Fine Arts, who gave six talks on
The Villa in History. Other speakers included Pramod
Chandra, Bickford Professor of Indian and South Asian
Art at the Fogg Museum at Harvard University; Wolf-
Dieter Dube, director of the Staatliche Museen, Preussis-
cher Kulturbisitz, Berlin, Agnes Mongan, former director
of the Fogg Museum; Konrad Oberhuber of the Fogg
Museum; the Honorable Mrs. Roberts, curator of the
print room, Royal Library, Windsor Castle; Duncan
Robinson, director of the Yale Center for British Art; and
Giles A. Waterfield, director of the Dulwich Picture Gal-
lery in London.

The Gallery’s well-attended film program continued to
highlight not only the temporary exhibitions, but also, for
the fourth consecutive year, the works of a noted contem-
porary filmmaker. An eight-part retrospective of the films
of Kenji Mizoguchi was selected and introduced by Peter
Brunette, professor of English and cinema at George
Mason University.

The availability of fifteen extension program films on
VHS and Beta format videocassettes as well as the 3/4”
U-Matic format, has contributed to a 45 percent rise in the
use of those programs. A further reason for a 35 percent
increase over 1984 in the total number of extension pro-
gram presentations, to a total of 66,500, is a rise to over
three hundred participating agencies serving as satellite
distributors of the programs via the Affiliate Loan System.
Reports from these agencies show levels of program use
that are almost double those of fiscal year 1984.

Four outstanding groups of drawings were received as
gifts—Professor Julius Held added sixty-nine old master
and modern drawings to the fine collection he donated last
year; a collection of five Winslow Homer watercolors and
four major pastels and gouaches by Everett Shinn was
bequeathed; an extraordinary selection of works by Max
Beckmann, including forty-four sketchbooks spanning the
artist’s entire working life, was donated by his widow; and
a further group of forty-nine Beckmann drawings from the

1920s through the 1940s was given. A generous gift of
funds made possible the purchase of a large Constable
drawing of an elm tree. Other important purchases of
drawings included a number of fine Netherlandish works
among which are two chalk drawings by Henrik Goltzius
and a landscape by Bartholomeus Breenbergh.

Print acquisitions included a fine impression of Jacopo
de Barbari’s Mars and Venus, a rare artist’s proof of a
Gainsborough landscape, and several nineteenth-century
French prints by Corot, Daubigny, and Gauguin.

Three major old master paintings were acquired, as well
as two works by major twentieth-century artists: the
Madonna and Child with Saint Elizabeth and Saint John
the Baptist, a Mannerist altarpiece by sixteenth-century
Florentine artist, Jacopino del Conte; a major seventeenth-
century Dutch painting, Dutch Ships in a Stormy Sea by
Ludolf Bakhuysen, the first Dutch marine in the collec-
tions; a sixteenth-century German portrait by Bavarian
court painter Hans Muelich; a surreal landscape by French
artist, Yves Tanguy; and Doric Circus by Robert Raus-
chenberg. Other twentieth-century artists whose works
were acquired were painters Ellsworth Kelly and Jack Beal
and sculptors Harry Bertoia and Robert Graham. A gift of
a rare small plaster maquette by Henry Moore, in superb
condition and one of only two such works by Moore
known to be in American collections, was also received.

Of the sixteen temporary exhibitions of works bor-
rowed from outside lenders, several drew from outstand-
ing collections in the United States and abroad. The
Albertina in Vienna lent seventy-five old master drawings
among which were ten by Durer, including his Praying
Hands. The exhibition was scheduled to coincide with the
bicentennial of economic and political relations between
Austria and the United States.

The Terra Museum of American Art lent an exhibition
of fifty-three monotypes by Maurice Prendergast; fifty
studies of horses and other animals by Leonardo da Vinci
were borrowed from the Royal Library at Windsor Castle;
the Dulwich Picture Gallery in London sent thirty-six old
master paintings to be seen in the United States for the first
time; one hundred of the finest European drawings, from
Leonardo to van Gogh, were lent by the Budapest
Museum of Fine Arts; fifteen American paintings were
borrowed from Dr. Armand Hammer to honor the presi-
dential inauguration; one hundred drawings from the fif-
teenth to the twentieth centuries were lent from one of the
most exceptional private drawing collections in America,
the Curtis O. Baer Family Collection; and Ruth and Jacob
Kainen lent approximately one hundred German Expres-
sionist prints from their collection.

Mrs. George Bush, Paul Mellon, Mrs. Mellon, and Vice Presi-
dent Bush (/eft to right) arrive for a dinner at the National Gal-
lery of Art in honor of Mr. Mellon on the occasion of his
retirement from the Gallery’s board of trustees.

An exhibition of the sculpture of India from 3000 B.C.
to A.D. 1300 opened the nationwide Festival of India, a
series of artistic events in 1985-86 illuminating the history
and culture of India. Included were more than 100 pieces
in stone, ivory, and bronze, many of them never before
seen outside India. From approximately the same period of
time in the woodland areas of southeast and midwest
North America, one hundred fifty masterworks of prehis-
toric native American art were shown for their artistic
merit as well as their cultural and archaeological signifi-
cance.

An exhibition of Edgar Degas’ most important paintings
and sculpure of ballet subjects, with the pastels and draw-
ings related to them, celebrated the rsoth anniversary of
the artist’s birth.

A symposium on Renaissance plaquettes, sponsored by
the Center for Advanced Study in the Visual Arts, brought
together experts from the United States and Europe to dis-
cuss various problems concerning the art form. This was
the third gathering in a series that began in 1983 with lec-
tures on Renaissance bronzes and continued in 1984 with a
symposium on Renaissance medals.

187
Temporary Exhibitions

Renaissance Drawings from The Ambrosiana, 1370-1600
continued from the previous fiscal year to 7 October 1984
coordinated by The Medieval Institute, University of
Notre Dame, and Diane de Grazia and supported by The
Samuel H. Kress Foundation and the Federal Council on
the Arts and Humanities

The Orientalists: Delacroix to Matisse, The Allure of
North Africa and the Near East

continued from the previous fiscal year to 28 October 1984
coordinated by MaryAnne Stevens, Royal Academy of
Arts, D. Dodge Thompson, and Florence E. Coman

John James Audubon: Birds of America
14 October 1984 to 10 March 1985 coordinated by Carlotta
J. Owens

American Naive Watercolors and Drawings
14 October 1984 to 13 January 1985 coordinated by
Deborah Chotner

Index of American Design
14 October 1984 to 27 January 1985 coordinated by Laurie
Weitzenkorn

Thomas Moran’s Watercolors of Yellowstone

14 October 1984 to 27 January 1985 coordinated by the
Thomas Gilcrease Institute, Nicolai Cikovsky, Jr., and
Linda Ayres

Old Master Drawings from the Albertina

25 October 1984 to 13 January 1985 coordinated by the
International Exhibitions Foundation and Andrew Robi-
son and supported by the Federal Council on the Arts and
the Humanities and United Technologies Corporation.

Gemini G.E.L.: Art and Collaboration
18 November 1984 to 24 February 1985 coordinated by
Ruth Fine

Degas: The Dancers

22 November 1984 to 10 March 1985 coordinated by
George T.M. Shackelford and supported by the Federal
Council on the Arts and Humanities

Master Prints from Washington Collections
24 November 1984 to 10 March 1985 coordinated by
Andrew Robison

The Washington Family by Edward Savage: An Inaugural
Celebration
13 January to 18 February 1985

188

American Paintings from the Armand Hammer Collection:
An Inaugural Celebration

13 January to 18 February 1985 coordinated by Nicolai
Cikovsky, Jr., and supported by The Armand Hammer
Foundation and the Occidental Petroleum Corporation

Monotypes by Maurice Prendergast from the Terra
Museum of American Art

27 January to 14 April 1985 coordinated by Cecily
Langdale, Terra Museum of American Art, Evanston, and
Nicolai Cikovsky, Jr.

Landscape Drawings from the Collection
3 February to 2 June 1985

Landscape Prints from the Collection
3 February to 4 August 1985

Leonardo da Vinci Drawings of Horses from the Royal
Library at Windsor Castle

24 February to 9 June 1985 coordinated by The Royal
Library, Windsor Castle, by the Honorable Jane Roberts,
Curator, Prints and Drawings, Windsor Castle, and H.
Diane Russell and supported by the Federal Council on the
Arts and the Humanities

Robert Nanteuil: Portrait Engraver to the Sun King
10 March to 28 April 1985 coordinated by H. Diane
Russell

Ancient Art of the American Woodland Indians

17 March to 4 August 1985 coordinated by David W. Pen-
ney, Detroit Institute of Arts and supported by The
National Endowment for the Arts, The Stroh Foundation,
and the Founders Society Detroit Institute of Arts

Collection for a King: Old Master Paintings from the
Dulwich Picture Gallery

14 April to 2 September 1985 coordinated by Giles Water-
field, Director, Dulwich Picture Gallery, and Arthur
Wheelock and supported by the Federal Council on the
Arts and the Humanities and Gerald D. Hines Interests

The Sculpture of India: 3000 B.C.-1300 A.D.
3 May to 2 September 1985 coordinated by Pramod Chan- |

dra, The George P. Bickford Professor of Indian Art, Har-
vard University, and D. Dodge Thompson and supported |
by the Hinduja Foundation (S.P. and E.P.), Boeing Com-
pany, The Coca-Cola Foundation, The General Foods
Fund, ITT Corporation, Lockheed Corporation, Roland
International Corporation, Varian Associates, and Wyeth —
Laboratories
Stubbs: An Exhibition in Honor of Paul Mellon

4 May to 2 June 1985 coordinated by D. Dodge Thompson
supported by the Federal Council on the Arts and the
Humanities and United Technologies Corporation

Leonardo to Van Gogh: Master Drawings from Budapest
12 May to 14 July 1985 coordinated by Klara Garas,
Museum Fine Arts, Budapest, and Diane DeGrazia and
supported by Occidental Petroleum Corporation, National
Endowment for the Arts, and the Federal Council on the
Arts and the Humanities

NGA Twentieth Century Collection
May 1985 to April 1986

Figure Drawings from the Collection
9 June to 19 October 1985

Selections from the Index of American Design
25 June to 29 September 1985

Master Drawings from Titian to Picasso: The Curtis O.
Baer Collection

28 July to 6 October 1985 coordinated by The High
Museum, Atlanta, and Andrew Robison

Figure Prints from the Collection
18 August 1985 to 16 February 1986

German Expressionist Prints from the Collection of Ruth
and Jacob Kainen

22 September 1985 to 9 February 1986 coordinated by
Andrew Robison

189
SMITHSONIAN:

St a eS an j+--——-————- BOARD OF REGEN

Under Separate Boards of Trustees

%
JOHN FE. KENNEDY CENTER SECRETARIAT* — THE SECRETARY
FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS

AUDITOR UNDER SECRETARY*

F
I |
| |
| |
I |
| |
| NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART
|

| WOODROW WILSON |
| INTERNATIONAL CENTER |
| | FORSCHOLARS |
Ls

TREASURER* GENERAL COUNSEL*
Business Management Office
Concessions
Mail Order Division
Smithsonian Museum Shops
Office of Accounting and
Financial Services
Office of Grants and Risk Management

Assistant Secretary for
SCIENCE*

National Air and Space Museum

National Museum of Natural History /
National Museum of Man

National Zoological Park

Office of Educational Research

Office of Fellowships and Grants

Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory

Smithsonian Environmental Research Center

Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute

*Secretary’s Management Committee

Assistant Secretary for
HISTORY AND ART*

Anacostia Neighborhood Museum
Archives of American Art
Center for Asian Art
Freer Gallery of Art
Sackler Gallery of Art
Cooper-Hewitt Museum
Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture
Garden
Joseph Henry Papers
National Museum of African Art
National Museum of American Art
Renwick Gallery
National Museum of American History
National Portrait Gallery
Office of American Studies

INSTITUTION

BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS

Archives of American Art
Board of Trustees

Board of Fellowships and Grants

Cooper-Hewitt Museum
Advisory Council

Folklife Advisory Council
Freer Visiting Committee
Hirshhorn Museum and

Sculpture Garden
Board of Trustees

Horticultural Advisory Committee

Joint Sponsoring Committee for
the Papers of Joseph Henry

National Air and Space Museum

Advisory Board

Directorate of
INTERNATIONAL ACTIVITIES*

International Center
Office of Publications Exchange
Office of Service and Protocol

National Armed Forces
Museum Advisory Board

National Board of the
Smithsonian Associates

National Museum Act
Advisory Council

National Museum of African Art
Commission

National Museum of American Art
Commission

National Portrait Gallery
Commission

Smithsonian Council

Women’s Committee of the
Smithsonian Associates

Director of

MEMBERSHIP AND DEVELOPMENT *

Development Office

Smithsonian National Associate Program
Smithsonian Resident Associate Program

Assistant Secretary for
PUBLIC SER VICE*

Office of Elementary and Secondary
Education

Office of Folklife Programs

Office of Public Affairs

Office of Smithsonian Symposia and
Seminars

Office of Telecommunications

Smithsonian Institution Press

Smithsonian Magazine

Visitor Information and Associates’
Reception Center

December 1985

Assistant Secretary for
MUSEUM PROGRAMS*

Conservation Analytical Laboratory

National Museum Act

Office of Exhibits Central

Office of Horticulture

Office of Museum Programs

Office of the Registrar

Smithsonian Institution Archives

Smithsonian Institution Libraries

Smithsonian Institution Traveling
Exhibition Service

Assistant Secretary for
ADMINISTRATION*

Congressional Liaison*

Contracts Office

Management Analysis Office

Office of Equal Opportunity

Office of Facilities Services
Office of Design and Construction
Office of Plant Services
Office of Protection Services

Office of Information Resource
Management

Office of Personnel Administration

Office of Printing and Photographic
Services

Office of Programming and Budget

Office of Special Events

Office of Supply Services

Travel Services Office

191
Cover: Facing the Mall in front of the Smithsonian “Castle” is a
statue of Joseph Henry, the first Secretary of the Institution.
(Photograph by Chip Clark)

For sale by the Superintendent of Documents,

U.S. Government Printing Office, Washington, D.C. 20402
(paper cover).

Stock number: 047-000-00402-1

Smithsonian Year 1985 Supplement, containing the
Chronology and Appendixes 1-10, is published in a
microfiche edition. Please address requests for copies to
Mr. Alan Burchell, Production Assistant, Smithsonian
Institution Press, 955 LEnfant Plaza, Washington,

D.C. 20560 / 202-287-3746.

192

|

omithsonian Year 1986

GOV pod

Tam

wae?

a > Dinas nes y :

. Saige = rc z pone c a
: zs : ‘ : :

Tip Sse aor : :

Y of

4 % ie & ‘

et ee aE
PES a. Nag ee gen went 3
cygattah Ra Tu SSO

vee ee 1

el ere oe
- PT get hd Rod
a hip Tn
ake, n

ow Sl

| SUPERENTENDENT OF DOCUMENTS
DEPOSITORY

( May 21 1997 é

BOSTON PUBLIC LIBRARY
GOVERNMENT DOCUMENTS DEPARTMENT

:
1 Ee j

ee /

7

I}

|

(

=

#

ORCI ne pee

ei

me

eae

——
wel

+,
bodies

> st
ae
Os ~

Smithsonian Year 1986

Annual Report of the Smithsonian Institution for the Year Ended September 30, 1986

Smithsonian Institution Press, Washington, D.C., 1987
Comet Halley was photographed in mid-March 1986 by a Baker- Nunn camera at the Fred L. Whipple Observatory in southern
Arizona. The camera, twenty-five years ago the bulwark of the Smithsonian’s satellite-tracking program, was reactivated especially
to record the historic return of the comet. (Photograph by Don Hogan, Ed Horine, and Daniel Brocious)

Contents

Smithsonian Institution 7
Statement by the Secretary 9
Report of the Board of Regents
Financial Report 32

28

Research 61
Joseph Henry Papers 62
National Zoological Park 63
Office of American Studies 69
Office of Fellowships and Grants 69
Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory 72
Smithsonian Environmental Research Center
Smithsonian Institution Archives 80
Smithsonian Institution Libraries 83
Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute 85

76

Museums 93
Anacostia Neighborhood Museum 94
Archives of American Art 95
Arthur M. Sackler Gallery and Freer Gallery
of Art 97
Conservation Analytical Laboratory 99
Cooper-Hewitt Museum 100

Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden 103

National Air and Space Museum 105
National Museum Act 109

National Museum of African Art 110
National Museum of American Art 112
National Museum of American History 115
National Museum of Natural History 121
National Portrait Gallery 127

Office of Exhibits Central 130

Office of Horticulture 131

Office of Museum Programs
Office of the Registrar 133
Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service

132

Public Service 137

Office of the Committee for a Wider Audience 138
Office of Elementary and Secondary Education 138
Office of Folklife Programs 139

Office of Public Affairs 141

Office of Smithsonian Symposia and Seminars 142

Office of Telecommunications
Smithsonian Institution Press
Smithsonian Magazine 146

143
144

Smithsonian World 146
Visitor Information and Associates’ Reception
Center 147

Administration 149
Administrative and Support Activities 150

Smithsonian Institution Women’s Council

153
Smithsonian Internship Council 153
Directorate of International Activities 155
Membership and Development 161
Office of Membership and Development 162

James Smithson Society 163

National Board of the Smithsonian Associates
Smithsonian National Associate Program 164
Smithsonian Resident Associate Program 68

Women’s Committee of the Smithsonian
Associates 172

Under Separate Boards of Trustees 175
John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts
National Gallery of Art 18r
Reading Is Fundamental, Inc. 185
Woodrow Wilson International Center for Schol

Organization Chart 190

133

164

176

ars 187
Smithsonian Year 1986 Supplement, containing the
Chronology and Appendixes 1-10, is published in a
microfiche edition. Please address requests for copies to
Alan Burchell, Production Coordinator,

Smithsonian Institution Press,

955 L Enfant Plaza, Suite 2100,

Washington, D.C. 20560/202-287-3746.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

The Smithsonian Institution was created by act of Con-
gress in 1846 in accordance with the terms of the will of
James Smithson of England, who in 1826 bequeathed his
property to the United States of America “to found at
Washington, under the name of the Smithsonian Institu-
tion, an establishment for the increase and diffusion of
knowledge among men.” After receiving the property and
accepting the trust, Congress incorporated the Institution
in an “establishment,” whose statutory members are the
President, the Vice President, the Chief Justice, and the
heads of the executive departments, and vested responsi-
bility for administering the trust in the Smithsonian
Board of Regents.
The Establishment

Ronald W. Reagan, President of the United States

George H. W. Bush, Vice President of the United States

Warren E. Burger, Chief Justice of the United States
(until September 26, 1986)

William H. Rehnquist, Chief Justice of the United States
(from September 26, 1986)

George P. Shultz, Secretary of State

James A. Baker III, Secretary of the Treasury

Caspar W. Weinberger, Secretary of Defense

Edwin Meese III, Attorney General

Donald P. Hodel, Secretary of the Interior

Richard E. Lyng, Secretary of Agriculture

Malcolm Baldrige, Secretary of Commerce

William E. Brock, Secretary of Labor

Otis R. Bowen, Secretary of Health and Human Services

Samuel R. Pierce, Jr., Secretary of Housing and Urban
Development

Elizabeth H. Dole, Secretary of Transportation

William J. Bennett, Secretary of Education

John S. Herrington, Secretary of Energy

Board of Regents

Warren E. Burger, Chief Justice of the United States,
ex officio (until September 26, 1986)

William H. Rehnquist, Chief Justice of the United States,
ex officio (from September 26, 1986)

George H. W. Bush, Vice President of the United States,
ex officio

Edwin J. (Jake) Garn, Senator from Utah

Barry Goldwater, Senator from Arizona

James R. Sasser, Senator from Tennessee

Edward P. Boland, Representative from Massachusetts

Silvio O. Conte, Representative from Massachusetts

Norman Y. Mineta, Representative from California

David C. Acheson, citizen of the District of Columbia

Anne L. Armstrong, citizen of Texas

William G. Bowen, citizen of New Jersey

Jeannine Smith Clark, citizen of the District of Columbia

Murray Gell-Mann, citizen of California

A. Leon Higginbotham, Jr., citizen of Pennsylvania

Carlisle H. Humelsine, citizen of Virginia

Samuel C. Johnson, citizen of Wisconsin

Barnabas McHenry, citizen of New York

The Secretary
Robert McCormick Adams

Dean W. Anderson, Under Secretary and
Acting Assistant Secretary for History and Art

David Challinor, Assistant Secretary for Research

Joseph Coudon, Special Assistant to the Secretary

Tom L. Freudenheim, Assistant Secretary for Museums
(from February 3, 1986)

Margaret C. Gaynor, Congressional Liaison

James M. Hobbins, Executive Assistant to the Secretary |

John F. Jameson, Assistant Secretary for Administration

Ann R. Leven, Treasurer

Peter G. Powers, General Counsel

John E. Reinhardt, Director, Directorate of International
Activities

William N. Richards, Acting Assistant Secretary for
Museum Programs (until February 3, 1986)

Ralph C. Rinzler, Assistant Secretary for Public Service

James McK. Symington, Director, Office of Membership
and Development
Statement by the Secretary
Robert McC. Adams

For the Smithsonian, as for many institutions dependent
on public funding, 1986 was a year of increasing uncer-
tainty. Budgetary constraints have begun to bite deeply
into our capacity to make and execute any new, ambi-
tious, long-range plans. Federal funding for new starts
involving construction is more and more problematic.
Facilities actually under way and nearing completion
fortunately have been spared sweeping reductions. Yet
we face difficulties in meeting minimal staff and equip-
ment requirements to open these facilities without seri-
ously eroding programmatic strength in other parts of
the Institution.

At the same time, unrelieved pessimism about the pos-
sibilities for further strengthening and even growth of the
Institution in the years immediately ahead is unjustified.
Uniquely embodied in our program is the provision for
private as well as federal support. Our own experience
reinforces the general impression that private funding is
inherently a more likely source of support for new begin-
nings of all kinds.

While federal and private funding complement one
another, they are not freely interchangeable. Require-
ments of accountability to the Smithsonian’s Board of
Regents and to the Congress mean that, for the most
part, federal and private funding must be devoted to dif-
ferent functions or objectives. It would obviously dis-
courage private donors if we were merely to substitute
nonappropriated funds for obligations abandoned by the
federal government. And the net contribution of all our
nonfederal sources of income, in any case, is only about
one-fifth of our total operating budget. Even under opti-
mistic projections of further growth, private funds could
not offset any major loss of federal support.

To cite an important current example of private sup-
port, we have turned to the computer and communica-
tions industry for the underwriting of a major, multiyear
effort to portray the extraordinary impacts that the in-
formation revolution is having on our lives. In The
Information Revolution exhibition being developed at
the National Museum of American History, our intent is
to focus not on a particular set of technical achievements
and possibilities, but rather on the effects these have had
and will have on careers, hopes, the quality of lives, and
horizons of understanding. Thus the familiar kind of
exhibition narrative, largely dependent as it would be in
this case on communications or information hardware,
falls far short of our objective. Finding a fundamentally
different, truly superior alternative then takes us on a
long journey into uncharted waters.

What is information and how do we manipulate it—

not merely with machines but in our minds? When do
quantitative changes in the rates of movement, or mem-
ory storage, or processing of information become quali-
tative changes in our capacities for management and un-
derstanding? Is there really such a thing as artificial
intelligence? Do computers introduce new ambiguities
into the boundaries we draw around consciousness and
motivation? How will computers affect not only our
health, our schooling, and our workplaces, but our
modes and frames of thought? Broad and challenging
questions like these do not surface ordinarily in special-
ized discussions among museum curators. In this exhibi-
tion such questions are suddenly central. Probably they
will remain so even after the exhibition opens, for we
expect to supplement the usual, static labels with interac-
tive displays. These displays should not only inform a
diverse stream of visitors on issues of their own choice,
but should also record a dialogue from which we too
can learn. All this is precisely the type of call upon our
vision and imagination that usually requires support
from private sources before it can win public acceptance.

I do not want to give the impression that the most
important or even the most pleasurable task at the
Smithsonian is setting new directions. Perhaps an even
deeper or more consistent purpose is to advance knowl-
edge cumulatively by building on the huge resource of
our collections. With these collections, it is a long-held
objective to draw the public’s interests and critical sensi-
bilities into new and unfamiliar realms. We stake much
on our ability to choose research objectives that can jus-
tify and sustain unremitting, long-term efforts.

In short, the dual goals of assuring continuity and
identifying new challenges or opportunities are at the
heart of the enterprise. Rather than being separate un-
dertakings, these goals involve many of the same individ-
uals and flow into and out of one another. This could be
illustrated in virtually any part of the wide spectrum of
the Smithsonian’s research, exhibition, or educational
activities, from the arts to the sciences. Lacking space to
illustrate exhaustively, I confine myself in this year’s re-
port to the life sciences. Even here, for reasons of space,
I cannot refer to the scores of projects in which individ-
uals or small groups of curators are engaged, but must
limit myself to a few larger-scale, organized activities.
Yet in each case the restricted example vigorously dem-
onstrates the convergence of new and highly differenti-
ated interest with other concerns that have long been
addressed in the Smithsonian’s programs.

The presence here of deeply rooted biological concerns
is surely no surprise. There is an enduring national
need—prominently recognized during the early era of
exploration but no less urgent today—for great, system-
atically studied collections of biological resources drawn
from all over the world. The task of assembling, analyz-
ing, and publishing these collections is enormous, and
open-ended in the sense that it will demand continuing
reinterpretation and refinement. It cannot easily be dis-
persed among many institutions or privatized. Moreover,
much of the direct use of the collections is of a federal-
ized character. Many scientists from such federal agen-
cies as the Department of Agriculture and the National
Institutes of Health regularly work side by side with our
own curators, investigating questions of practical impor-
tance for which the collections are an indispensable tool.
Hence the primacy of biological research at the Smith-
sonian is understandable. It is only appropriate that
there has long been a major commitment of funds from
our federal budget to the development and care of our
collections.

The traditional concern for improving these collections
is concentrated in the National Museum of Natural His-
tory, where the number of registered objects and speci-
mens exceeds eighty million. In support of the same con-
cern, we direct a major portion of our research efforts
toward natural field settings worldwide. Given the con-
centration of most university-based scientific research in
laboratories, it is in the combination of collections-based
research and fieldwork that the Smithsonian’s opportuni-
ties to make a unique contribution are the greatest.

Exemplifying the multifaceted importance of our natu-
ral history collections is the Smithsonian’s grass herbar-
ium; its more than 250,000 specimens constitute the larg-
est and most significant collection in existence. Plant
communities dominated by grasses account for almost a
fourth of the earth’s land surface, and a mere twenty
species of grasses supply some 90 percent of the world’s
food. Apart from providing food, grasses like bamboo
supply vital construction timber in Southeast Asia, for
example, as well as fiber for paper, mats, and utensils of
many kinds. Other grasses feed livestock, control ero-
sion, make turf, and provide a sugar source for alcohol.
In recognition of these critical and diverse contributions,
the first International Symposium on Grass Systematics
and Evolution was held at the Smithsonian in July 1986.
The proceedings, jointly sponsored with the National
Science Foundation and the American Institute of Biolog-
ical Sciences, are being published by the Smithsonian
Institution Press.

Having emphasized the importance of our systematic
collections, I also note with great pleasure the appoint-

Io

ment in October 1985 of Dr. Robert S. Hoffmann to the
directorship of the National Museum of Natural History.
Dr. Hoffmann, a leading United States expert on mam-
malian systematics and ecology and formerly Summer-
field Distinguished Professor at the University of Kansas,
took up his new duties in May 1986. The Soviet Union
is among the world regions in which he has conducted
extensive field research, and he has served on the
U.S.-U.S.S.R. Joint Commission on Science Policy of
the National Academy of Sciences. He succeeds Dr. Rich-
ard S. Fiske, who has returned to the Department of
Mineral Sciences to resume his research on volcanoes.

Providing a kind of capstone for all our recent biologi-
cal efforts was a National Forum on BioDiversity. Held
in September 1986, it was jointly undertaken by the
Smithsonian and the National Academy of Sciences. This
newest reflection of an old and continuing partnership
involved an outstanding group of active participants,
whose interests ranged from agricultural development to
conservation, ecosystem management, and systematic
biology. Besides drawing more than a thousand formal
registrants, the proceedings attracted exceptionally wide
interest from the media. A national teleconference at the
conclusion of the forum was broadcast by satellite to 102
downlink sites in universities and laboratories around the
country, and other sessions were carried by Voice of
America broadcasts in Spanish and Portuguese to much
of Latin America.

The forum dealt with tropical forests and coral reefs,
grasslands and islands, current problems and the geologi-
cal record, zoos and botanical gardens, and new technol-
ogies such as in vitro fertilization. But the core issues
concerned the huge, still largely unmeasured prolifera-
tion of natural life that is now in jeopardy in many parts
of the world. Estimates of current and projected rates of
species extinction vary widely, but even the lowest esti-
mate put forward at the forum—g percent over the next
few decades—would be a matter of great concern. And
in any case, the current rate of destruction is greatest
where the dangers of possible extinction of truly cata-
strophic numbers of species also are greatest: in tropical
forests.

Timber harvesting, land clearance for commercial cat-
tle grazing, and encroachments for subsistence farming
on thin, easily depleted tropical soils by burgeoning rural
populations in many underdeveloped countries all play a
part in the destructive processes that are widely at work
in the tropics. These processes go forward not only in
many small encroachments on forest margins, but some-
times in massive clearings in the very heart of the largest,
Secretary Robert McC. Adams greets Vice President George Bush in front of the restored Grumman F6F-3 at the National Air and
Space Museum. Also pictured are (left to right): Secretary of Defense Caspar W. Weinberger; Frank A. Bennack, Jr., president of the
Hearst Corporation; Secretary of the Navy John Lehman; Vice Admiral Edward H. Martin; and Daniel J. Coleman, publisher of

Popular Mechanics.

stull mainly undisturbed areas like the Amazon basin.
Accounting for only some 7 percent of the earth’s land
surface, these immense reservoirs of differentiated life
almost certainly harbor well over half of all living spe-
cies. By one estimate, as many as thirty million insect
species alone—the overwhelming proportion of them
never studied or represented in collections—are mostly
confined to rain forest canopies.

There are cogent, practical arguments for taking ur-
gent steps to preserve tropical ecosystems where we can
and for getting on much more rapidly with the daunting
task of inventorying the resources that could be irretriev-
ably lost before their existence has even been recognized.

The presence among them of potentially important food
plants and pharmaceuticals can be predicted with near
certainty. Included in the gene pools that will otherwise
vanish are vital future contributions to the over-all range
of genetic variability. But no less important is the poten-
tial loss to science of a substantial part of its data base
in fundamental biology.

Biodiversity, thus, is a shorthand symbol for deep and
growing concerns; it may even have become a rallying
cry. But this is not to say that the forum offered prescrip-
tions for assured success in treatment of a highly com-
plex series of problems, or even offered certainties of
measurement of precisely how serious those problems

II
are. The scientific needs alone dwarf the numbers of
trained, available personnel. Questions in almost all
tropical areas vastly outnumber answers. To what extent
will it be possible, for example, for genetic engineering
and other modern technologies to provide us with re-
placements for species losses that may occur? How can
we constructively modulate concerns for conservation
that now tend to be voiced most strongly in the devel-
oped countries of temperate latitudes, with the natural
and overwhelming desire of less developed countries in
more tropical latitudes to close the development gap and
also meet the needs of their still rapidly growing popula-
tions? What is the role of so-called “market forces”—not
as they may be conceived in theory but as they actually
exist in a world of growing deficit constraints and world
trade barriers and imbalances—in either exacerbating or
ameliorating the problems of ecosystem deterioration
and species extinction?

If I have any sense of personal dissatisfaction with the
very full agenda that was laid out for the National Fo-
rum on BioDiversity, it arises from the domain touched
upon by these particular questions. The challenges we
face are largely a product of organized human actions.
Similarly the only measures by which these challenges
can be met need to be designed and implemented by hu-
man societies and organizations. Harmonizing the preser-
vation of biodiversity with the almost crushing economic
forces and social problems that threaten it is a responsi-
bility that needs to be more widely shared, with social
scientists, in particular, coming forward to bear a greater
part of the burden.

Not surprisingly, the primary impetus for organizing
the forum came from those in the scientific community
most familiar with and most immediately affected by the
ongoing destruction around them. Also involved were
economic and other specialists concerned with interna-
tional finance and development. Most heartening was
the widespread public interest, which, while recent, is
evidently now awakened and growing rapidly.

One long-established and substantial biological
research activity of the Smithsonian, the Rockville,
Maryland, headquarters of the Smithsonian Environmen-
tal Research Center (SERC), was gradually dismantled
during the latter part of fiscal year 1986, finally to be
closed in November. Research at this leased facility had
focused on mechanisms regulating the growth and devel-
opment of plants down to their cellular and subcellular
levels. The decision to terminate the Rockville facility
activities—transferring some of its ongoing experiments,
monitoring activities, personnel, and equipment to other

I2

parts of the Institution—followed a series of external and
internal reviews.

While generally upholding the quality of much of the
work being done, these reviews noted that the labora-
tory’s work was relatively narrow in focus and somewhat
isolated from the broader context of the Institution’s
over-all biological programs. Lacking the additional re-
sources that would have been necessary to rehouse and
revitalize the laboratory’s experimental work upon termi-
nation of its lease, the difficult decision was made to
concentrate available funds on the pursuit of more cen-
tral themes of systematics and evolutionary biology else-
where in the Smithsonian. Some of the laboratory’s re-
search, including solar, carbon dioxide, and other
environmental monitoring, has been transferred to the
other SERC facility at Edgewater on the Chesapeake
Bay. The bulk of the funding allotted for the Rockville
facility will, it is hoped, be made available for intensified
research programs at the Smithsonian Tropical Research
Institute, the National Museum of Natural History, and
the National Zoological Park.

Tropical forests exemplify resources that need to be
viewed as world responsibilities and concerns. Their po-
tential for meeting human needs as well as for advancing
scientific understanding can be achieved only in a genu-
inely international spirit and setting. That is precisely in
accordance with the tradition of Smithsonian programs,
for here international activities have always played an
important, perhaps even preponderant, part. Our rela-
tions with well over a hundred countries have been
briefly summarized in a recent directory. Evident as a
two-part underlying principle is the special emphasis on
long-term contributions for which the Institution is espe-
cially well fitted and the maintenance of a corresponding
degree of independence from current and thus transitory
policy objectives.

The Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute (STRI) is
an outstanding example of this principle of operation.
Devoted to tropical rain forest and marine biology, STRI
studies in Panama have continued for over sixty years
and today provide the most advanced and diversified
body of information on tropical ecosystems in the world.
Hundreds of Latin American scientists and their students
collaborate annually in this work. STRI constitutes a
standard of what international cooperation in science
should be: low-key but highly productive and broadly
interdisciplinary collaboration based on an unconstrained
two-way flow of information, carried on in an atmo-
sphere thoroughly insulated from national rivalries.

The prevailing state of affairs in international schol-
hy \ 2

Orchids bloom at the Office of Horticulture greenhouses, located at the U.S. Soldiers’ and Airmen’s Home, Washington, D.C.

arly and scientific research falls regrettably short of this
standard. In November 1985, the Smithsonian and the
Social Science Research Council jointly sponsored a con-
ference to survey what are widely perceived to be the
growing problems of international research access, espe-
cially in Third World countries. This is a somewhat
ironic development in view of the vast increase in the
quality and size of the international research community
since World War II, the greatest part of it as a result of
Western training. Participants at the conference from a
fairly wide range of institutions and disciplines found
themselves in general agreement on the seriousness of the
problem as well as its disturbingly increasing frequency.
There is little doubt that obstacles to U.S.-initiated
field research programs in the Third World have become
irregularly but cumulatively more common. Any general
tendency is qualified by occasional partial reversals and
numerous individual exceptions. The net effect, however,
is a spreading imposition of a great variety of restrictions
on access. Yet I should stress the judgment of knowledge-
able observers that strongly nationalistic, anti-Western
officials or ideologies are not the principal forces respon-
sible for these difficulties. Such individuals and views

obviously are present and have some influence, but in
most countries there is little to suggest that they have
become significantly more influential in the last genera-
tion or so. Not overt acts but inaction and delay are the
most usual barriers to access, and they may often be
consequences of the unchecked bureaucratic growth that
has accompanied heartening developments like widened
literacy and political participation. If this is so, we can-
not expect difficulties to disappear with increasing levels
of development. Indigenous scholarly and scientific com-
munities, as they grow in strength, may be in a firmer
position to argue for autarkic policies that an economist
might characterize as import substitution.

Tightened conditions on the conduct of research or
restrictions on the range of acceptable subjects form an-
other class of growing difficulties. Again, this sometimes
must be reckoned as highly positive and in the interest of
all parties. That is the case, for example, when project
approval is made contingent on the involvement of host-
country collaborators or trainees. But other attached
conditions are more controversial, such as the exclusion
of research with a potentially negative bearing on mat-
ters of national “image.” Perhaps the one common ele-

13
ment—a natural concomitant of increasing sophistication
on the part of host countries—is the introduction of a
greater element of selectivity, to be used consciously as a
lever for national advantage.

We should not be surprised that there may be feelings
of rivalry on the part of national scientific elites that
have grown rapidly in the postwar period. In any long-
term view this is a merely transitional difficulty. Much
more significant is the gratifying development of new
management capabilities and of a potential for genuine
international collaboration among colleagues of equal
scientific stature. Not a few of the restrictive require-
ments—such as insistence on host-country participants or
on the bilingual publication of reports—are also in the
long-term best interests of a balanced international devel-
opment of science. And it is at least understandable that
many countries, in these fiscally perilous times, should
insist that foreign efforts be focused on research prob-
lems having some national development priority.

As this suggests, the impact of restrictions on different
fields of scholarship also is highly irregular and difficult
to generalize about. Humanists, especially when pursu-
ing themes that are neither contemporary nor controver-
sial, have on the whole been least affected. In the sci-
ences, field access for biologists has become significantly
more difficult than laboratory access for physical scien-
tists. Perhaps most heavily affected are the social sci-
ences. Certain whole areas of investigation are widely
excluded, seemingly posing the threat of contributing to
internal unrest or casting doubt upon an idealized na-
tional image. Other areas of investigation are selectively
tolerated or encouraged, evidently being viewed as rele-
vant to the implementation of development plans, or
even—this has been the justification for some of my own
archaeological work—relevant to the formation of new
national identities. Beyond a palpably growing restric-
tiveness, many of these tendencies defy smooth generali-
zation. No doubt the qualities and qualifications of the
individual researcher are still the single, most significant
variable.

The larger point is that we must not allow ourselves
to view only in terms of our own grievances and objec-
tives what is admittedly a growing problem. There is a
beam in our own scientific eye also. Sustained, sensi-
tively pursued, multilateral research has not been ade-
quately recognized in our country as a priority in either
government or university circles. Mechanisms to encour-
age such research or to impose a degree of discipline on
a small handful of egregious “bad actors” are distin-
guished largely by their absence. As competition has

14

sharpened for funding research or graduate-level train-
ing, support has eroded for the inclusion of foreign col-
laborators, for the support of foreign research assistants,
or for the bilingual publications that are often necessary
to make truly collaborative research a reality. To cite a
particularly distressing example, little or no national
concern is evident for the catastrophic decline in Mexi-
co’s economic abilities to provide access for its best stu-
dents to American graduate-level training or even to
maintain its subscriptions to foreign research journals.

Having some bearing on the general climate of the ac-
cess question is the withdrawal of the United States from
UNESCO at the beginning of 1985. This was certainly
justifiable in many respects. The United Nations organi-
zation’s politicization and unresponsiveness to widely
voiced criticisms may have left our government with no
other realistic alternative. But our severance of that rela-
tionship intensifies many of the other problems to which
I have referred.

Whatever UNESCO’s gross managerial and intellectual
deficiencies, in many areas it is the only intergovernmen-
tal agency with responsibility for maintaining the basic
infrastructure of international agreements under which
cultural and educational programs as well as scientific
research can go forward. That applies to global observa-
tional programs such as the Man and Biosphere Pro-
gram, the International Geological Correlation Program,
and the International Hydrological Program; it also ap-
plies to key elements of support for the International
Council of Scientific Unions and the International Coun-
cil of Museums. Whether or not we choose to reconsider
the withdrawal decision itself in the near term on the
basis of subsequent changes within UNESCO, we should
not be under any illusions as to the continuing adverse
effects of withdrawal on the United States scientific com-
munity.

Among the programs I have mentioned, the Smith-
sonian has a particularly direct stake in the one
concerned with Man and Biosphere. We have recently
launched an integrated set of biotic inventory, research,
and training activities under its general auspices. Dr.
Terry L. Erwin, one of the Institution’s senior entomolo-
gists, has been named to head an effort that brings to-
gether our interests in biological diversity in the tropics.
The plan includes designing methods (based on micro-
computer technology) for the long-term monitoring and
collecting of data from areas designated as Biosphere
Reserves, and for the training of Third World biologists
and conservationists in part through their participation
in this effort.
On July 1, 1986, the National Air and Space Museum celebrated its tenth anniversary with a host of activities, including photo opportu-
nities in the cockpit of an F-r00 Super Sabre jet.

There is the further consideration of general climate or
background that should not be overlooked in dealing
with all international relationships in scientific and schol-
arly research. The progress of research may never have
been so rapid as it is currently—in the developed, indus-
trialized part of the world. Much of this progress, how-
ever, rests on enormous but very costly advances in in-
strumentation. This raises formidable barriers to
effective participation by less favored countries, inciden-
tally making it more difficult for them to retain their
Western-trained scientific cadres. Another striking trend,
applying particularly to areas of most active ferment,
involves the increasingly multidisciplinary character of
research. The exciting if also controversial recent discov-
eries concerning iridium anomalies and the significance
of Cretaceous-Tertiary and other extinctions, for exam-
ple, have involved geologists, geophysicists, crystallogra-
phers, astronomers, astrophysicists, meteorologists, pale-
ontologists, evolutionary biologists, and statisticians.

What this means is that having a national scientific
community of considerable breadth and balance as well
as size is tending to become a condition for national par-
ticipation in some of the most promising scientific areas.
As a result, less-developed countries are faced with the

challenge of having to run faster merely to retain their
present places in the world pecking order—at a time
when worldwide terms of trade and patterns of indebted-
ness often prevent them from doing so.

Individual United States researchers with Third World
interests prove to have little bargaining leverage in over-
coming the access problems I| have cited, no doubt in
large part because their interests and institutional bases
are so diverse. Carefully monitored and balanced recip-
rocal arrangements, carried on under national or quasi-
national auspices, are one obvious solution to the prob-
lem. This solution has been usefully applied to United
States scholarly exchanges with the Soviet Union. Schol-
arly relations with the People’s Republic of China, on the
other hand, are generally acknowledged to be at a stage
where reciprocity must be virtually set aside until the
relationship develops further. So it is with many less-
developed countries as well.

The emergent pattern of tying foreign research more
and more closely to the individual country’s development
priorities will probably prevail for an extended period.
Insofar as this pattern leads to an emphasis on research
in highly applied, practical areas, the Smithsonian may
encounter increasing difficulties. But it may also lead to

TS
Secretary Robert McC. Adams and Vice President George Bush congratulated outgoing Chancellor Warren E. Burger on his receipt on
September 14, 1986, of the Smithson Medal and citation. (Photograph by Eric Long

a new Stress on research with a training component; in
this we have important advantages. With substantial pre-
and postdoctorial fellowship programs already flourish-
ing without restriction as to national origin, with capa-
bilities for organizing museum exhibitions that will travel
widely in this country, and with practical training pro-
grams in fields like museum management, the Smith-
sonian is in a strong position to bargain for research ac-
cess with trade-offs not necessarily limited to a particular
project or discipline.

Our Directorate of International Activities will have a
vital part to play in overseeing these new arrangements.
To the extent that adequate funding can be found, the
Directorate will facilitate international network building
by structuring conferences and workshops within the
fields of Smithsonian interests. I do not think I am un-
reasonably optimistic in expecting that in this way we
may make a material contribution to solving the larger
problems of research access also.

16

I touched earlier on the National Forum on BioDiver-
sity as a reaffirmation of an old and valued linkage be-
tween the Smithsonian and the National Academy of
Sciences. Still another linkage of great promise is our
jointly sponsored National Science Resources Center,
now housed in the Arts and Industries Building under
the directorship of Dr. Douglas Lapp. In addition to sup-
port from the Academy and the Smithsonian, funding for
the center has been obtained from government agencies,
private foundations, and industrial corporations. Dr.
Lapp, whose academic background is in physics and bio-
physics, has been extensively involved in large-scale sci-
ence curriculum development projects.

The National Science Resources Center is designed to
identify, develop, and disseminate scientific and mathe-
matics resource materials that are imaginative, classroom
tested, and scientifically up to date. It will also sponsor
programs to help teachers learn to teach science and
mathematics more effectively at the primary and second-
ary school levels. Many local and regional activities are
already under way, of course, to halt the deterioration of
instruction in these fields of critical national importance.
Our intent is to augment these activities and stimulate
the flow of information among them rather than to re-
place them. Access to much of the finest scientific and
engineering talent in the country is possible through the
National Academy of Sciences’ networks, while the
Smithsonian staff adds important experience of its own
and insights into alternative, museum-based improve-
ments in learning. The National Science Resources Cen-
ter’s objective is, in short, to provide a format for on-
going collaboration between teachers and scientists.
Academy and Smithsonian groups together need to be
involved if there is to be a successful national effort not
only to test and introduce new models of instruction but
to assure their wide dissemination.

I am completing these lines at the very time that mas-
ter masons are painstakingly finishing the exterior facing
of polished granite on the majestic entrance pavilions to
the quadrangle, just to the south of the Smithsonian
Castle. Below ground, most staff members of the Na-
tional Museum of African Art and the new Arthur M.
Sackler Gallery containing collections of Near Eastern
and Asian art have already taken up occupancy in the
upper two floors of echoing, still-empty galleries in this
splendid museum complex. On a floor lower, the newly
furnished offices of the Resident Associate and National
Associate programs, of the Smithsonian Institution Trav-
eling Exhibition Service, and of the Directorate of Inter-
national Activities are also humming with activity.

Depending on whether or not you care to count in
composites, one or several major new additions to the
Smithsonian family are coming alive. Their public open-
ing during the coming year will shift the central focus
within the Smithsonian as a whole, and almost certainly
in the following annual reports, from the sciences to the
arts. If this has been the year of the forest, next will be
the year of the dragon, or perhaps the mask. We change
directions, taking up new challenges. But the underlying
aim of the Smithsonian always has been to balance
growth with continuity.

Staff Changes

As in the past, the comings and goings among the execu-
tive staff have continued to have a profound impact on

the Institution, but no change at that level was more sig-
nificant than the retirement of the Smithsonian’s fifteenth

Chancellor, Chief Justice Warren E. Burger. Chancellor
Burger had overseen what will undoubtedly be regarded
as the Institution’s greatest period of growth, and to him
the staff owes a particular debt of gratitude for his un-
excelled dedication to the integrity of the Smithsonian
and its Board of Regents. While his absence from the
official business of the Board will be sorely felt, we can
more happily anticipate continued collaboration with
Chief Justice Burger as the chairman of the Commission
for the Bicentennial of the Constitution and occasional
further service to the Institution as Chancellor Emeritus.

We have been pleased this year to have attracted and
begun working with a number of bright and accom-
plished new members of the senior staff. In midwinter
Tom L. Freudenheim came from the Worcester (Massa-
chusetts) Art Museum to the position of Assistant Secre-
tary for Museums. Shortly thereafter, Richard Siegle
came from the state of Washington to head the Smithso-
nian’s Office of Facilities Services; Robert Hoffmann left
the University of Kansas to become director of the Na-
tional Museum of Natural History; Mary Case came
from the IBM Corporation to serve as the Smithsonian’s
Registrar; and Nancy Suttenfield left the state of Virginia
to become director of the Office of Programming and
Budget. It has been a pleasure to begin working with
these enthusiastic new staff members who bring a wealth
of talent and fresh perspectives which will benefit the
Institution for years to come. In a similar vein, we were
pleased to appoint to higher positions two well-known
and widely regarded staff members, Roberta Rubinoff as
the director of the Office of Fellowships and Grants, and
Shireen Dodson as Comptroller of the Office of Account-
ing and Financial Services.

Of course, some of these changes and others were ac-
companied by the departure of a number of loyal staff
whose contributions will have lasting effects. Retirements
have taken from our midst Bill Richards, most recently
our acting Assistant Secretary for Museum Programs;
Jim Mahoney, the director of the Office of Exhibits Cen-
tral; Al Goff, the director of our Office of Accounting
and Financial Services; and Bill Klein, the longtime direc-
tor of the Rockville facility of the Smithsonian Environ-
mental Research Center. Off to other pursuits are Walter
Boyne, director of the National Air and Space Museum;
Robert Maloy, director of the Smithsonian Libraries; Al
Rosenfeld, director of the Office of Public Affairs; and
Tom Peyton, director of the Office of Facilities Services.
To all of them, and to many other staff members who
have recently departed, we owe hearty thanks for jobs
well done and extend our best wishes.

17
This winter, on three separate occasions, we took a
moment to honor the notably outstanding services of
three of our most dedicated colleagues. Receiving the
Secretary’s Gold Medal for Exceptional Service were
Tom Peyton, Betty Meggers, and Adelyn Breeskin. Dur-
ing the summer, however, we were saddened to learn
that Mrs. Breeskin, who had just turned go, died while
traveling abroad.

It continues to be undeniably true that the greatest
strength of the Institution is in its staff. I am even more
aware of that fact as I complete my second year as Secre-
tary, for at every turn, day in and day out, I am continu-
ally struck by the enthusiasm and devotion of Smith-
sonian employees too numerous to name.

The Year in Review

The Smithsonian’s tallies for fiscal year 1986 show that
members of the public paid an estimated 22.7 million
visits to Smithsonian facilities during the year. But the
visitor statistics for the Smithsonian’s thirteen museums
and the National Zoo represent only a portion of the
many contacts and exchanges between the Smithsonian
and its audience.

For example: 1.2 million people came to the Festival
of American Folklife this summer, Smithsonian Institu-
tion Traveling Exhibition Service exhibitions were viewed
by five million people in the United States and abroad,
seven million people read Smithsonian magazine, eight
million viewers watched “Smithsonian World” on their
local Public Broadcasting stations, and a potential four
million listeners tuned in to “Radio Smithsonian.” The
1,550 daily and weekly newspapers that subscribe to the
Smithsonian News Service have a combined circulation
of forty million, and it has been estimated that 50 per-
cent of the prime-time television viewing audience is
reached by the “Here at the Smithsonian” short features.

The Resident Associate Program now has 57,000 mem-
bers, and the records show that 270,000 adults and
young people attended RAP’s 2,000 activities in fiscal
year 1986.

The Smithsonian National Associates Lecture and
Seminar Program invited 445,000 families in cities across
the United States to participate in regional programs.

Study tours took 6,600 Smithsonian Associates on ad-
ventures that ranged from retracing the sailing routes of
Magellan, Drake, and Darwin to hiking the sacred peaks
of China to studying history and art in Florence, Italy.

18

The Visitor Information and Associates’ Reception
Center reported a 35 percent increase in phone traffic as
telephone information services logged more than
400,000 calls, and reported a 33 percent increase in in-
quiries to the public inquiry mail service, yielding 50,000
pieces of mail.

Hundreds of visiting scholars were welcomed to the
Institution for brief visits and lengthy residencies, enrich-
ing both their own experience and that of the Institution
with their presence.

Last, not least, among the vital statistics for fiscal year
1986 are the 5,546 volunteers who supported the Institu-
tion with their energy and time in performing a wide
range of essential services—working in the Visitor Infor-
mation and Associates’ Reception Center, serving as do-
cents and tour guides, engaging in research, feeding the
tarantulas at the Insect Zoo, making Christmas orna-
ments, and producing the Washington Craft Show, to
name but a few services performed by Smithsonian vol-
unteers.

The more than 125 exhibitions that opened in 1986 in-
cluded blockbusters and small gems. A sample reveals
the variety of Smithsonian offerings.

The Smithsonian looked back at its own beginnings in
the National Museum of Natural History’s yearlong ex-
hibition, Magnificent Voyagers: The U.S.Exploring Ex-
pedition, 1838-1842. Critically acclaimed as both exhibi-
tion and book, Magnificent Voyagers commemorated an
expedition that made enduring contributions to scientific
knowledge. Thousands of specimens and artifacts—
mostly from the Pacific Islands and the west coast of
North America—were turned over to the Smithsonian in
1857, becoming the foundation for the National Museum
of Natural History’s study collections.

More than forty institutions and individuals loaned
materials for this massive undertaking. Production of
this exhibition and the programs accompanying it in-
volved close cooperation among many Smithsonian orga-
nizations, including various curatorial departments
within the Natural History Museum and the museum’s
Office of Education, as well as the Joseph Henry Papers,
the National Museum of American History, the Smith-
sonian Institution Libraries, the Smithsonian Institution
Press, the Smithsonian Archives, and the Smithsonian
Institution Traveling Exhibition Service. The show will
travel throughout the United States for two years.

At the Freer Gallery of Art, From Concept to Context:
Approaches to Asian and Islamic Calligraphy—the muse-
Frank Stella’s relief painting Ouaqua! Attaccati lal,
museum purchase.

Sa

1985, was acquire

d by the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden this year as a

19
um’s first comprehensive look at an art which, in Asia
and the Near East, is considered to represent the pinna-
cle of creative achievement—was held in conjunction
with the 26th International Congress of the History of
Art, held in Washington, D.C. The Freer recorded a 50
percent increase in attendance this year.

Important exhibitions at the Hirshhorn Museum and
Sculpture Garden included A New Romanticism: Sixteen
Artists from Italy, the first exhibition in America to ex-
plore the romantic spiritual impulse of recent Italian art,
and Directions 1986, the latest in a series focusing on
developments in contemporary art.

The National Zoo brought out the first in a series of
interactive exhibits, called ZOOArk, designed to provide
visitors with in-depth information. The Zoo also experi-
mented successfully with mixed-species groupings, plac-
ing hummingbirds and predatory fishes in crocodile ex-
hibits, and birds with a variety of mammals in the Small
Mammal House.

The Anacostia Neighborhood Museum’s last exhibi-
tion in its old building was a tremendous success. Mu-
seum attendance increased 50 percent during the showing
of The Renaissance: Black Arts of the Twenties, which
was accompanied by a wide range of educational pro-
grams.

Exhibitions at the National Museum of American Art’s
Renwick Gallery included Frank Lloyd Wright and the
Johnson Wax Buildings: Creating a Corporate Cathedral.
For the first time in almost ten years, visitors to the gal-
lery could see the Renwick unobstructed by barriers and
scaffolding, as repairs of the facade were finally com-
pleted.

Noteworthy National Portrait Gallery exhibitions in-
cluded Gaston Lachaise: Portrait Sculpture and John
Frazee, Sculptor, the latter coorganized with the Boston
Athenaeum.

The Cooper-Hewitt Museum in New York City offered
a varied menu to museum-goers, including Bon Voyage:
Designs for Travel; Advertising America; Treasures from
Hungary: Gold and Silver from the Ninth to the Nine-
teenth Century; and Toys from the Nuremberg Spielzeug
Museum.

Among the exhibitions produced by the National Mu-
seum of African Art, before it closed in order to move to
the new underground museum complex on the Mall, was
Go Well, My Child, which consisted of photographs of
South Africa donated to the museum by photographer
Constance Stuart Larrabee, who forty years ago collabo-
rated with Alan Paton to create a photographic portfolio

based on his novel Cry, the Beloved Country. Another
important Museum of African Art show, A Human Ideal
in African Art, Bamana Figurative Sculpture, was based
on recent field research in Mali. The exhibition is the
first organized by the museum to travel to New York’s
Metropolitan Museum of Art.

Each year, traveling exhibitions make it possible for hun-
dreds of thousands of people outside of Washington,
D.C., to view Smithsonian productions.

The National Museum of American History was the
first stop on the tour of the tremendously popular SITES
show Hollywood: Legend and Reality, the first major
exhibition to explore the development of the film indus-
try and its aesthetic and cultural impact on American
society. In fiscal year 1986, the Smithsonian Institution
Traveling Exhibition Service added twenty-five exhibi-
tions to its roster of more than one hundred traveling
shows.

Three of the National Museum of American Art’s 1986
exhibitions will tour to other American cities: Treasures
from the National Museum of American Art, which in-
cludes eighty-one of the museum’s most important
works; Art in New Mexico, 1900-1945: Paths to Taos
and Santa Fe, the first major East Coast exhibition de-
voted to the subject; and Art, Design and the Modern
Corporation: The Collection of the Container Corpora-
tion of America.

Several museums have added to their permanent exhibi-
tions.

Visitors to the National Museum of Natural History
can now see Earth’s oldest fossils in the new permanent
exhibition The Earliest Traces of Life.

The National Museum of American History opened
the first in a series of new permanent installations, After
the Revolution: Everyday Life in America, 1780-1800.
The exhibition draws on recent scholarship and research
to present a cross section of American life of the period.

The National Air and Space Museum also opened the
new Looking at Earth gallery that draws on the expertise
of the museum’s Center for Earth and Planetary Studies
in the field of remote sensing. Illustrating the many ways
that man has viewed the Earth, the gallery highlights
pigeon-carried cameras as well as satellite-carried de-
vices.

At the National Museum of American Art, the Doris
M. Magowan Gallery of Portrait Miniatures reopened
after being closed several years for extensive renovation.

The Smithsonian continued to take an active role in the
nationwide Festival of India 1985-1986, a celebration of
Indian culture bringing art, music, drama, dance, film,
and crafts to major cultural institutions across the
United States. Smithsonian Secretary Emeritus S. Dillon
Ripley is American Chairman for the festival.

Golden Eye: An International Tribute to the Artisans
of India, at the Cooper-Hewitt Museum in New York
City, displayed furnishings, jewelry, objets d’art, toys,
clothing, and architectural elements designed by eleven
noted Western designers inspired by the traditional crafts
of India. All the items in the show were crafted by arti-
sans in India.

The National Museum of American History offered
two exhibitions in conjunction with the festival. Aditi:
The Monies of India examined the history of money in
India from the sixth century B.C. to the present, and All
Sorts of Painted Stuffs . . . Indian Chintzes and Their
Western Counterparts explored the production of India’s
exotic, floral-patterned cottons and their arrival and imi-
tation in the West.

The Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Ser-
vice produced The Master Weavers, an exhibition of the
varied traditional textiles of India.

The National Museum of American History’s Office of
Education created an educational kit, The Living Arts of
India, which is circulating among South Asian centers,
universities, centers for international education, and
school systems across the United States. Accompanied by
six volumes of written material, the package includes
audiotapes and a videotape of the museum’s 1985 Aditi:
A Celebration of Life exhibition, as well as puppets,
posters, musical instruments, and more.

The spirit of international cooperation and exchange
embodied in an event like the Festival of India 1985-1986
has long been a part of the Smithsonian’s mission. This
spirit continues to grow and find expression in ongoing
Smithsonian activities and in our plans for the future.

As construction of the Smithsonian’s new museum com-
plex on the National Mall neared completion, the Smith-
sonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service, the Resi-
dent and National Associate programs, and the
Directorate of International Activities moved into the

underground facility during 1986 and attention focused
on preparations for the opening of the Arthur M.
Sackler Gallery and the International Center, and the
reopening of the National Museum of African Art, in
September 1987.

In addition to coordinating a wide range of ongoing
projects involving international cooperation between the
Smithsonian and other institutions, staff members of the
Directorate of International Activities have been planning
for the International Center’s inaugural exhibition and
associated programs—and also for the Columbus Quin-
centenary in 1992. In 1986 the Directorate began a three-
year pilot program, in cooperation with the National
Museum of Natural History, tied to the international
Man and the Biosphere Program.

Also in 1986 the Directorate of International Activities
joined with the Joint Committee on Africa of the Social
Science Research Council and the American Council of
Learned Societies to survey scholars and museum profes-
sionals worldwide on issues to be discussed at a future
international conference on African material culture. As
planned, the conference will integrate the perspectives of
multiple disciplines.

The National Museum of African Art began a new
chapter in its history on June 15, 1986, when the doors
of its Capitol Hill townhouses closed and preparations
for the move to the new site on the Mall began. The
Smithsonian Archives completed its survey of the Eliot
Elisofon Photographic Archives, one of the largest pho-
tographic archives of African art, culture, and environ-
ment, and a major research component of the National
Museum of African Art.

Smithsonian Institution Libraries’ National Museum of
African Art branch continued purchasing to enhance the
Africana collection, which has doubled in size to more
than 10,000 volumes since 1985. And the museum’s De-
partment of Education and Research has doubled the
size of the museum’s docent corps, assembling eighty vol-
unteers for a training program that will prepare them
and the department for the inaugural programs at the
new location.

The center for Asian art, which includes the Arthur
M. Sackler Gallery and the Freer Gallery of Art, experi-
enced a 50 percent growth in staff this year. Center con-
servators and staff at the Smithsonian Conservation
Analytical Laboratory worked to prepare the Arthur M.
Sackler collections for exhibition.

Scholarship at both the center for Asian art and the
Museum of African Art has been enhanced with the con-

21
ae —— ~
Somewhere there is a book that will challenge a child to read and
through reading to expand horizons and break down limits on
learning. These children were looking for “their” books at the
Smithsonian, following a drawing to select a National RIF
Reader. (Photograph by Dolores Neuman)

tinuation of the Rockefeller Residency Program in the
Humanities grants for postdoctoral fellowships. The
1986 fellows are studying, respectively, historical photo-
graphs as sources for research on African art history and
history, and Persian sources relating to the calligraphers,
artists, and artisans of the Timurid period.

Meanwhile, above ground, the Smithsonian’s Office of
Horticulture began installing trees and plants in the Enid
A. Haupt Garden, which is to open in spring 1987.

The Smithsonian celebrated several milestones during
fiscal year 1986.

Smithsonian Archives honored the rooth anniversary
of the birth of Alexander Wetmore, sixth Secretary of the
Smithsonian Institution, with the exhibition Alexander
Wetmore: The Early Years, 1900-1925. The exhibition
included a narrated videotape of film footage of Wet-
more’s 1950s Panama expeditions.

The Cooper-Hewitt Museum celebrated the roth anni-
versary of its rebirth as the Smithsonian’s National Mu-
seum of Design on October 6, 1985.

The roth anniversary of the opening of the National
Air and Space Museum was celebrated on July 1, 1986.

22

This has been a decade of record-breaking attendance, a
full schedule of public programs, and an expanded com-
mitment to historical and scientific research. The muse-
um’s collection has come a long way since a group of
Chinese kites was given to the Institution in 1876; this
year, NASM acquired the Space Shuttle Enterprise,
which will serve as centerpiece for the proposed museum
annex at Washington Dulles International Airport. Other
landmarks in this anniversary year were the launching of
the Air & Space / Smithsonian magazine and accom-
panying membership program, and the premiere of the
new IMAX film On the Wing.

Two divisions in the National Museum of American
History marked their tooth anniversaries this year. The
National Philatelic Collection was honored by the U.S.
Postal Service, which issued a special booklet of stamps
to commemorate the collection’s centenary. And the mu-
seum’s Division of Graphic Arts celebrated with the exhi-
bition GA roo: The Centenary of the Division of
Graphic Arts.

In addition to marking its own anniversaries, the Smith-
sonian joined in the celebrations of other national and
international milestones.

In conjunction with the centennial celebration for the
Statue of Liberty, the Office of Smithsonian Symposia
and Seminars held a colloquium, “Liberty: As Idea, Icon,
and Engineering Feat,” in New York City.

The National Portrait Gallery joined with the Tennes-
see State Museum to produce the exhibition Davy
Crockett: Gentleman from the Cane, commemorating
the bicentenary of the folk hero’s birth.

The National Museum of American History commem-
orated the rsoth anniversary of the Patent Act with the
exhibitions Patent Pending: Models of Invention and In-
vention and Enterprise.

The Cooper-Hewitt Museum presented the exhibition
Milestones: Fifty Years of Consumer Goods and Services
on the occasion of the soth anniversary of Consumers
Union, publishers of Consumer Reports magazine.

The Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Ser-
vice produced Carnegie Libraries: A Sesquicentennial
Celebration.

The winter of 1985 saw the return of Halley’s comet, a
cause for excitement worldwide. Smithsonian Astrophys-
ical Observatory scientists were involved in research con-
cerning the 1985-86 appearance of the comet, including
measurements of the nucleus, the first glimpse ever of
the heart of a comet. These measurements confirmed
and extended the famous “dirty snowball” model of a
comet’s nucleus developed by the Observatory’s Fred
Whipple.

The National Air and Space Museum produced a vari-
ety of programs for comet watchers: Comet Ouest, the
most successful planetarium show to date; a curriculum
guide; a permanent installation, Exploring Comets; an
exhibition, Fire and Ice: A History of Comets in Art,
which drew on collections from around the world; and a
one-day free public celebration including an international
symposium, a lecture by astronomer Carl Sagan, and a
“Once-in-a-Lifetime” party.

At the Freer Gallery of Art, the exhibition Wonders of
Creation, Oddities of Existence: An Exhibition in Cele-
bration of Halley’s Comet offered visitors a view of Near
Eastern attitudes toward the cosmos from the thirteenth
to the eighteenth centuries. The Smithsonian Associates
set forth on a variety of study tours. And the Visitor In-
formation and Associates’ Reception Center reported
that interest in Halley’s comet in November and December
generated nearly 19,000 calls to the Dial-a-Phenomenon
recording.

The Smithsonian continues to add to the national col-
lections it holds in trust for the American people. In
1986, ten of the Smithsonian’s thirteen museums and the
National Zoo took in an estimated 942,000 artifacts,
works of art, and specimens. The bulk of the new acqui-
sitions—approximately 896,000 male, female, old, and
young specimens from different parts of the world—went
to the National Museum of Natural History, where spec-
imens are collected by the thousands so that scientists
may have statistically valid sample populations to study.

All together, the Smithsonian museums now have more
than ro2 million objects in their collections. Some, espe-
cially works of art, are purchased; other objects and
specimens are brought back from scientific expeditions
and fieldwork conducted by researchers.

Among the more than 40,000 items that found their
way into the collections of the National Museum of
American History this year were more than 300 hand-
held calculators; the “Indomitable,” the first magnetic
resonance imaging device, which allowed doctors for the
first time to examine the entire human body internally
using ultrasound technology rather than surgical inter-
vention; vaudeville costumes worn in the 1890s; and a
Kodak Brownie camera used to photograph the rescue of
Titanic survivors.

The Arthur M. Sackler Gallery added the finest exist-

ing private collection of Islamic and Indian paintings and
manuscripts to its already precious holdings. This long-
lost collection, assembled between 1900 and 1943 by
Paris jeweler Henri Vever, is a comprehensive survey of
the art of the Persian book.

The Freer Gallery of Art acquired a nineteenth-century
Chinese wooden birdcage with lacquer and ceramic ac-
cessories as well as three works of Japanese calligraphy
and an ancient Chinese pottery ewer or vessel from the
Warring States period (481-221 B.c.). A gift of Chinese
blue-and-white porcelains (1662-1722), now on exhibit in
the Peacock Room, were also added to the collection.

The National Portrait Gallery acquired a formal full-
length oil portrait of President Jimmy Carter, an oil
painting of poet T. S. Eliot, and a group of caricatures
of famous Americans by Herman Perlman. The gallery
also added to its collection another eighty-two pieces of
original art used for Time magazine covers.

Marine biologists at the National Museum of Natural
History welcomed the addition of a 4,000-specimen al-
gae collection from the Florida Keys and the Bahamas.
Entomologists received 10,000 moths and butterflies
from Scandinavia, including specimens previously unrep-
resented in the museum’s extensive collections. One of
the largest complete trilobites ever found in North Amer-
ica was added to the museum’s fossil collection—and
beautiful crinoid, or “sea lily,’ fossils were purchased by
the Paleobiology Department. A collection of rare,
nineteenth-century native wood-carvings was donated to
the museum’s Anthropology Department. The Vertebrate
Zoology Department received an extensive collection of
birds, mammals, and insects from the Amazonian jungles
of Brazil. This collection may include species that are
new to scientists.

The National Museum of African Art acquired a
sculpture, made of wood, metal, shell, and other materi-
als, by the Songye people of Zaire, and purchased a rare
Vili (Congo) ivory staff top, a chief's emblem of office,
dating from the nineteenth century or earlier.

Among the twenty-two works added to the Hirshhorn
Museum and Sculpture Garden collections were Dictio-
nary for Building: Closet under Stairs, a 1985 work by
Siah Armajani, and a bronze sculpture by Max Ernst,
Young Flower-Shaped Woman (1944, cast in 1959). The
Hirshhorn also officially acquisitioned 5,879 works of art
that had been bequeathed to the museum by its founder,
the late Joseph Hirshhorn (1899-1981).

The National Air and Space Museum acquired numer-
ous distinguished medals belonging to General Chuck
Yeager, along with two of his flight jackets. One of the

23
jackets was worn by Yeager on his historic 1947 sound-
barrier-breaking flight in the Bell XS-1. A Russian fighter
plane, a MiG-15, and a home-built American helicopter
also were added to the museum’s aeronautics collection.
NASM’s Space Science and Exploration Department re-
ceived the only full-scale test vehicle used in 1976 for
NASA's Hubble Space Telescope. The real telescope has
since been built and is scheduled to be the payload of a
future space shuttle mission.

Among the highlights of the 1986 acquisitions made by
the Smithsonian’s National Museum of Design, the
Cooper-Hewitt Museum in New York, were a linen nap-
kin (1905), a 1929 mahogany-and-glass bookcase, and a
work by Dutch artist Isaac de Moucheron (1667-1744).

The National Museum of American Art acquired a
portfolio of prints by the well-known photographer Di-
ane Arbus; a group of contemporary works by Peter So-
low, Jacob Kainen, James Surls, and Philip Guston, and
a neoclassical sculpture by Harriet Hosmer titled Will 0’
the Wisp.

The Smithsonian’s Archives of American Art has an
extensive collection of materials from artists, museums,
and art collectors around the country. In 1986, the Ar-
chives added 145 color slides of Chicano murals in Los
Angeles, about twenty boxes of files, correspondence,
and other materials from the Los Angeles Museum of
Contemporary Art, and the personal papers of the well-
known Playboy artist and illustrator, Alberto Vargas.

Notable among the National Zoo’s new acquisitions
were ten golden-headed lion tamarins from Brazil. The
monkeys became part of the Zoo’s ongoing captive-
breeding programs, which hope to save these and other
endangered species from extinction. New breeding pro-
grams were founded in 1986 with the addition of species
to the collections. The Zoo’s collections also expanded
naturally, with 1,265 births—including the first birth of a
golden-headed lion tamarin in the United States. Other
triumphs in the propagation of rare and endangered spe-
cies included the first hatching of red-crowned cranes at
the Zoo and continued success in the Guam birds rescue
project.

Nearly all of the objects acquired by the Institution in
1986 became part of the Smithsonian’s study collections.
These collections and the curators who study them are
unparalleled resources, essential to scholarly research.
Making these historical and anthropological objects,
original works of art, natural history specimens, living
plants, animals, and entire ecosystems available for study

24

and providing opportunities for research and study to
colleagues and students outside the Smithsonian is a vital
Smithsonian activity.

In 1986, the Office of Fellowships and Grants
welcomed 142 fellows, 256 visiting scientists and schol-
ars, and ror interns, including representatives of more
than thirty foreign countries. The diverse topics for their
researches included migration and employment transition
of African-American women, 1890-1930; mechanics,
mathematics, and machines in the culture of the Renais-
sance; man and nature in Winslow Homer’s Adirondack
pictures; kinetics and ecology of flight in butterflies;
technology, gender, and economics in computer program-
ming; and the introduction of modern German art into
New York City, 1905-39.

Fellows at the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute
totaled 73 men and women from the United States, Asia,
and Latin America, many of them from developing na-
tions.

The Office of Museum Programs continued to provide
services to museums, as well as internships and opportu-
nities for visiting professionals, museum leaders, and
specialists from across the United States and overseas. Its
many activities in 1986 included an International Con-
gress on Learning in Museums; a joint on-site workshop
with the African American Museums Association for
teams of museum directors and trustees; a national con-
ference on Women’s Changing Roles in Museums, co-
sponsored by the Office of Museum Programs and the
Smithsonian Institution Women’s Council; and the Na-
tive American Museums Program which included the
Native American Archives Advisory Conference.

The Office of Elementary and Secondary Education
this year expanded its programs for young people and
educators, including the Career Awareness Program; the
Summer Intern Program; “Exploring the Smithsonian,”
which welcomed 5,400 Washington, D.C., junior high
school students; and the Summer Internship Program for
High School Teachers from across the nation.

The year 1986 saw several additions to the Smithsonian’s
ongoing efforts to encourage a wider audience participa-
tion and to reflect in its programs the contributions of
all cultural communities to history and culture.

The National Museum of American Art produced two
new special-interest self-guided exhibition tours, “Afro-
American Art” and “Women Artists.” The Office of Pub-
lic Affairs has expanded the scope of its readership by
launching a Hispanic edition of the Smithsonian News

The National Portrait Gallery’s purchase of this painting by Thomas Eakins of Talcott Williams, an oil on canvas, was made possible by
the James Smithson Society and the Kate and Laurens Seelye Family. (Photograph by Eugene Mantie)

Service. A variety of public programs, such as the Festi-
val of American Folklife and the National Museum of

American History Program on Black American Culture
colloquia and concerts on Classic Gospel Song and Black
American Popular Music, provided opportunities for vis-
itors to learn about the different cultural traditions that
compose our heritage.

The American Indian Program at the National Mu-
seum of American History and the National Museum of
Natural History was established in fiscal year 1986 to
bring American Indian perspectives to all of the muse-
ums’ publications, outreach, and exhibition projects.

The Office of the Committee for a Wider Audience
was established in June 1986, formalizing the work of
the ad hoc Committee for a Wider Audience. The office
will evaluate Smithsonian programs and recommend
ways to improve the Institution’s capacity to serve a
more varied and diversified American and international
public.

Since successful wider audience participation is ultimately
related to excellent scholarship and interpretation, these
concerns are also being addressed behind the scenes at
the Smithsonian.

This year marked the fifth year that the Office of Fel-
lowships and Grants offered a wide range of academic
opportunities aimed at increasing minority participation
in Smithsonian programs. These opportunities include
internships for minority undergraduate and graduate stu-
dents; a student employment program that encourages
minority graduate students to work in professional and
administrative positions; an Education Fellowship Pro-
gram that offers support for graduate education and re-
search training at the Smithsonian; and fellowships for
minority faculty members and faculty from minority col-
leges. Faculty research topics this year included the de-
velopment of the synthetic dye industry in the United
States, 1860-1920; the role of sports in Afro-American
community life during the Jim Crow era, 1896-1954; and
salinity tolerance assessments of mangrove ferns.

The Office of Fellowships and Grants American Indian
Program provides opportunities through directed and
independent appointments for North American Indians
to pursue research utilizing Smithsonian collections relat-
ing to their cultures. In 1986, research topics included
the National Congress of American Indians and its in-
volvement in American Indian Higher Education; and
Chippewa Musical Heritage and Reservation History.

The Office of Fellowships and Grants initiated the

26

Visiting Associates Program in 1986. A dozen university
and collegé faculty and administrators who have a com-
mitment to expanding minority participation in higher
education visited the Institution to learn about ongoing
research and research opportunities. Associates were
asked to serve as resource contacts and will disseminate
Smithsonian research opportunities to their respective
academic communities.

In conjunction with the Association of American Uni-
versity Presses, the Smithsonian Institution Press in 1986
helped establish a nationwide program to increase the
number of minority members in university press publish-
ing.

Paving the way for future specialized research are such
programs as the Afro-American Index Project, which
began in December 1985 to record the tens of thousands
of Afro-American related objects, photographs, and doc-
uments in Smithsonian collections, and the Smithsonian
Ethnographic Judaica Project, which similarly began cat-
aloging ethnographic objects, documents, and ceremonial
art in Judaica collections.

The National Museum of Natural History joined with
the American Institute of Biological Sciences and the Na-
tional Science Foundation to produce the International
Grass Symposium. Proceedings of this major symposium
are in preparation for publication by the Smithsonian
Institution Press.

“Man and Beast Revisited,” an international sympo-
sium cosponsored by the National Zoo and the Office of
Smithsonian Symposia and Seminars, was designed as a
sequel to the 1969 “Man and Beast: Comparative Social
Behavior.”

A survey of significant scientific research at the Smith-
sonian this year encompasses the development of new
visions of the universe and efforts to understand the con-
sequences of man-made disasters.

Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory scientists chal-
lenged and confirmed several long-standing notions
about the cosmos in the past year. SAO scientists pro-
duced a new map of large-scale structure in the universe.
They revised the distance measurement to the center of
the Milky Way from 33,000 light years, the standard for
two decades, to 23,000 light years. This fundamental
measurement affecting many calculations in astronomy
will have a major impact on our understanding of the
distance between objects in our galaxy. SAO scientists
and Harvard collaborators have made the first precise
measurements of the distance from Earth to an astro-

nomical object outside our galaxy—a supernova approxi-
mately 60 million light years away. This ability to mea-
sure extragalactic distances is central to many
cosmological issues, including size, age, structure, and
ultimate fate of the universe.

In addition to these breakthroughs in measuring dis-
tance, SAO has taken steps to improve the measurement
of time as well. An SAO- and Harvard-designed clock
that successfully operated at a temperature within one-
half degree of absolute zero is expected to be one thou-
sand times more accurate than previous atomic clocks.

The Smithsonian Environmental Research Center facil-
ity in Rockville, Maryland, completed its fifty-seventh
and last year as a site for study of the influence of sun-
light on growth and development of biological organ-
isms. When the Rockville center closed in November
1986, research continued at the Edgewater, Maryland,
facility. Researchers in Edgewater have been studying
Chesapeake Bay overenrichment, a major regional prob-
lem, from an over-all landscape perspective. Their find-
ings indicate the significant role played by farm manage-
ment and the need for improved watershed management
in the Bay area.

At the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute in Pan-
ama, scientists are exploring diving and buoyancy in sea
snakes; variation in animal genitalia; spider webs; the
interrelationships of certain birds and wasps; dynamics
of forest growth; and the effects of weather and sea-
sonal rhythms on flora and fauna of the region.

While STRI researchers were analyzing years of data
gained from monitoring the environment on the reef flat
at Galeta Point, the worst oil spill in Panama’s history
caused extensive mortality on the flat. Since this is the
first oil spill in so well-studied a place, the Department
of the Interior expressed interest in following up the ef-
fects of the disaster in a study that will span a consider-
able stretch of the Caribbean coast. Other research at
the Institute focuses on the effects of natural disaster,
studying how the massive mortality of reef corals in the
wake of El Nino is affecting the development of reefs
and observing the recovery of the long-spined sea urchins
Diadema from the mass mortality that reduced their
numbers by over 99 percent three years ago.

New projects at the Conservation Analytical Labora-
tory this year include studies of heat and moisture trans-
port in walls of museum buildings, studies of humidity-
induced dimensional changes in woodwind instruments
during playing, and studies of the effects of weighting
silk. Progress in CALs studies of yellow-firing Hopi ce-
ramics has attracted a sizable number of requests for col-

laborative projects in American Southwest archaeology.
Similarly, the work on ceramics from the Helmand and
Indus Valley civilizations was so successful that Italian
and French archaeologists working on this subject in the
Middle East have expressed the wish for further formal-
ized cooperative arrangements.

CALs collaborative program with the National Bureau
of Standards on lead isotope analysis concentrated in
1986 on Chinese bronze vessels from the Arthur M.
Sackler collections and the results were reported at a
conference in China. The laboratory also joined with the
Getty Conservation Institute and the Canadian Conser-
vation Institute in a study of the effects on museum ob-
jects materials of fumigants commonly used for insect
control.

The National Air and Space Museum conducted re-
search on the history of cosmic ray physics; the origins
of the Hubble Space Telescope; Turkish aviation; the ev-
olution of space suit technology; and the history of air-
lines in Asia. Data from remote sensing of terrestrial and
planetary surface features was used to study desert re-
gions of Earth and structural landforms on Mars. In ad-
dition, the museum established the National Air and
Space Archives as a national center for research into
aerospace history, a clearinghouse for information on the
museum’s own collections as well as collections available
at non-Smithsonian facilities.

National Museum of Natural History scientists investi-
gated the hydrothermal vents of the eastern Pacific and
the giant vestimentiferan tube worms that live there. In-
ternational expeditions went to Colombia to study the
aftermath of the catastrophic eruption of Nevada del
Ruiz, which killed 24,000 people; to a remote, biologi-
cally unexplored offshore area of the Philippines; to the
mountains of Nepal to survey a proposed conservation
area; and to Morocco, with the National Geographic
Society, in search of the ancient Strait of Gibraltar. The
museum initiated the first long-term study of a mangrove
ecosystem, in Belize, and a major study of a meteorite
that may give clues to the earliest history of the solar
system. The year 1986 also saw the beginning of the Co-
operative Program on the Mexican Apifauna, involving bee
specialists from the United States, Mexico, and Panama.

The Smithsonian continued to publish books and records
for scholarly and general audiences, and to produce film
and television projects that reach an audience far beyond
the bounds of Washington, D.C. Among the many
achievements in 1986 were these:

w)
J
The Stone Carvers, a film that grew out of the 1978
and 1979 Festival of American Folklife programs, won
an Emmy Award.

“Smithsonian World” received an Emmy Award for the
Anne Morrow Lindbergh segment in Crossing the Dis-
tance, and was honored with the gold medal for best
magazine series at the International Television and Film
Festival in New York.

The Office of Telecommunications completed the pilot
program for a possible children’s television series, “Smith-
sonian Quest,” and participated in the production of

“Smithsonian Treasures,” a 90-minute television special
hosted by Gene Kelly and broadcast in April 1986.

Smithsonian bureaus produced a variety of important
exhibition catalogs and volumes on current research,
among them works honored by the American Associa-
tion of Museums and other professional organizations.
The National Museum of Natural History published the
sixth in the Institution’s projected twenty-volume ency-
clopedic Handbook of North American Indians.

The Smithsonian Institution Press continued its growth
in the publication of scholarly and general books. Three
new scholarly series developed rapidly in 1986: New Di-
rections in American Art, the Smithsonian Series in Ar-
chaeological Inquiry, and the Smithsonian Series in Eth-
nographic Inquiry. In all the Press published over
thirty-five books in the past year. Several books won de-
sign awards and commendations, and Fred Whipple’s
Mystery of Comets was honored with the prestigious Phi
Beta Kappa Award. American Popular Song, a seven-
record anthology produced by the Smithsonian Collec-
tion of Recordings, was nominated for Grammy awards
in two categories: Best Historical Album and Best Album
Notes.

28

Report of the Board of Regents

The first meeting of the Board, held on January 27,
1986, began with tributes to the late Regents Emeriti
George H. Mahon and J. Paul Austin. At the suggestion
of the Executive Committee, the Regents voted to seek
the reappointment of Dr. Gell-Mann and Mr. Acheson as
Regents of the Institution. The Board received a report
of the Audit and Review Committee’s November 5, 1985,
meeting at the Museum Support Center, in which the
committee reviewed programs for the handling of haz-
ardous materials, toured the center, and discussed the
activities of the Conservation Analytical Laboratory. The
Personnel Committee reported that it had reviewed the
financial interests statements of the executive staff, had
received a report on the submission and review of other
employees’ financial interests statements, and had found
no conflict of interest whatsoever. After the Regents’ ad
hoc committee on food services reported its findings, the
Regents voted to authorize the Secretary to solicit new
bids and contract for Smithsonian restaurant services on
and near the Mall, to plan and contract for the construc-
tion of a new restaurant facility on the east terrace of the
National Air and Space Museum and such other capital
improvements to existing facilities as may be prudent,
and to finance these undertakings with available unre-
stricted trust funds or funds to be borrowed from bank-
ing institutions. The Investment Policy Committee re-
ported on its meeting in November 1985; subsequent to
the meeting of the Board, Mr. Humelsine, acting chair-
man of the committee, conferred with members of the
committee and requested the Treasurer to order the sale
of the Institution’s holdings in the Trustees’ Commingled
Fund.

In his Secretary’s Report, Mr. Adams reported on the
impact of the Gramm-Rudman-Hollings sequestration of
fiscal year 1986 appropriations and strategies being de-
veloped to cope with these and future cuts. The Secre-
tary also announced measures being taken to partially
decentralize the Institution’s fund-raising activities; re-
ported that IBM had made a major challenge grant to-
ward The Information Revolution exhibition being
developed at the National Museum of American History;
discussed efforts which had been made to assist the
launching of American Visions magazine; promulgated a
general policy on the loan of particularly important
Smithsonian collections; and gave a report on the Na-
tional Science Resources Center.

In other actions, the Regents received reports on
financial matters; approved the Five-Year Prospectus,

FY 1987-FY 1991; established a policy of minimizing the
inconvenience to the general public on occasions of offi-
cial visitors; and received reports on the prospective Air
and Space Museum facilities at Washington Dulles Inter-
national Airport, on the Smithsonian Council’s meeting,
and on museum deaccessioning during the last fiscal
year. The Regents also appointed or reappointed
Thomas M. Evans, Robert Morgan, Barry Bingham, Sr.,
and Katie Loucheim Klopfer to the Portrait Gallery
Commission; Frank Moss, Helen Neufeld, Robert
Nooter, Frances Humphrey Howard, and David Driskell
to the African Art Commission; and Elizabeth Brooke
Blake, Thomas C. Howe, Caroline Hume, Nan Tucker
McElvoy, Caroline Simmons, and Wilbur L. Ross, Jr., to
the American Art Commission.

The January Regents’ dinner was held in honor of
former Under Secretary Phillip S$. Hughes in the Palm
Court of the National Museum of American History.

The second meeting of the year was held on May 5s,
1986. The Regents formally adopted an amendment to
their bylaws providing that a member of the Board shall
disclose in writing to the Executive Committee any fi-
nancial transaction or business dealing with the Institu-
tion in which such member has a direct involvement.
The Executive Committee reported that on April 9, act-
ing on behalf of the Board, it expressed approval for the
appointment of Mr. Barnabas McHenry as a member
and chairman of the Investment Policy Committee.
Meeting on March 6, the Audit and Review Committee
discussed Coopers & Lybrand’s audit of the Smith-
sonian’s fiscal year 1985 appropriated and trust funds;
recent progress toward identifying a significantly im-
proved personnel/payroll system; a summary of the in-
ternal auditors’ most significant recommendations in fis-
cal year 1985; and the administration of the Restoration
and Renovation of Buildings program. The Investment
Policy Committee recommended, and the Regents ap-
proved, an endowment payout rate for fiscal year 1987.

In his Secretary’s Report, Mr. Adams gave a brief ac-
count of the hearings with the House appropriations
subcommittee on the Interior Department and Related
Agencies. Discussing possible measures to cope with
sharply reduced budgets, including paid admissions and
voluntary donations, the Regents agreed that an ad hoc
committee of the Regents should be formed to work
with the staff to identify and recommend appropriate
actions. The Secretary reported on considerable promise

since the April 1986 inaugural issue of Air & Space/Smith-

sonian magazine, and he announced that the National
Museum of American Art has under development a new
scholarly journal to be titled Smithsonian Studies in
American Art.

After Mr. John Jameson and Miss Ann Leven reported
on the status of appropriated and trust funds for fiscal
years 1986 and 1987, the Regents agreed that the Secre-
tary should continue to adhere to the principles
suggested in the existing policy on the appropriate uses
of unrestricted trust funds. In other actions, the Secre-
tary reported on the status of soliciting proposals for
food service operations and designing the new restaurant
facility for the east terrace of the National Air and Space
Museum; the Regents reaffirmed their commitment to
the improvement and expansion of facilities of the
Cooper-Hewitt Museum and urged continued support
for legislation authorizing an appropriation for one-half
of the construction costs as soon as practicable; the
Board requested that its congressional members intro-
duce and support legislation to repeal Public Law 87-186
which established the National Armed Forces Museum
Advisory Board; the Secretary reported on major devel-
opment initiatives and his decision to close the Smith-
sonian Environmental Research Center at Rockville,
Maryland, effective November 14, 1986; the Regents
voted to accept the Annual Report of the Secretary for
Fiscal Year 1985; and the Secretary presented status re-
ports on the quadrangle, other major construction, the
Museum Support Center storage equipment, litigation,
and television and other electronic media.

The Regents’ dinner was held in the Renwick Gallery
on the preceding evening, May 4, 1986. After dinner
Mr. Adams offered some observations on the concept of
“crafts” throughout history and gave a brief chronology
of the various roles played by the Renwick building and
its development as a Smithsonian gallery devoted to the
display of crafts as art. Concluding his remarks, the Sec-
retary presented to Renwick Gallery Director Lloyd Her-
man a piece of sandstone from the original facade of the
building.

The Board of Regents held its third meeting of the
year on September 15. The Executive Committee
reported on its September 3 meeting in which it reiter-
ated the Regents’ mandate to replenish the Institution’s
working capital fund, expressed its appreciation for the
care which has been consistently exercised in drawing
appropriate distinctions between trust and federal re-
sources in the budget process, and authorized the Secre-
tary to negotiate an agreement for the acquisition of the
Folkways Records Collection and Archives. The Audit
and Review Committee, having met on June 3, reported
that Mr. Adams had announced that, for reasons of se-
curity, public parking will soon be accommodated only
above ground, and the parking garage of the National

29
Air and Space Museum will be reserved for the parking
of staff and credentialed volunteers and docents, that the
committee discussed Coopers & Lybrand’s plan of audit
for fiscal year 1986 funds, that the committee had re-
viewed further actions which had been taken in response
to the Federal Managers’ Financial Integrity Act, and
received a presentation on Smithsonian Business Man-
agement Activities. The Regents’ ad hoc committee on
museum admissions, meeting for the first time on June
4, discussed an outline of a comprehensive approach to
the study and suggested that the committee and the Re-
gents need to have a clearer demographic profile of visi-
tors from a professional survey and that consideration be
given to conducting a short-term experiment of soliciting
at the door. The Regents accepted the Investment Policy
Committee’s recommendations to retain Miller, Anderson
and Sherrerd as one of the Institution’s investment man-
agers and to appoint Jane Mack Gould to membership
on the committee.

In his Secretary’s Report, Mr. Adams announced that
he will be taking a new, comprehensive approach to the
Institution’s external relations to achieve a broader view
of the Smithsonian’s projection of its case for fund-raising
and for membership programs, image building, and gen-
eral publicity. He also discussed the Smithsonian’s in-
tention to consummate the sale of the A Street facilities of
the Museum of African Art; his concern to assist the Mu-
seum of the American Indian in New York; the potential
donations of extraordinarily significant collections of
modern art and of the art of New Guinea; and Senator
Edwin J. Garn’s interest in the establishment of a center
for the enhancement of space sciences education as a me-
morial to the Challenger astronauts.

Mr. Jameson, after first discussing the Institution’s re-
sources for the completion of quadrangle construction
and the beginning of quadrangle operations, joined with
Miss Leven in a presentation of the financial report. The
Regents then approved revisions to current year funding,
authorized the Secretary to expend trust and appropri-
ated funds for fiscal year 1987, and approved for submis-
sion to the Office of Management and Budget the Insti-
tution’s budget request for fiscal year 1988. In a related
action, the Board authorized the Secretary to negotiate
the purchase of a small parcel of land at the Front Royal
facility of the National Zoological Park and the sale of
other property at the Edgewater facility of the Smith-
sonian Environmental Research Center.

The Secretary introduced the draft of the Five-Year
Prospectus, FY r988—FY 1992 and invited the Regents to
provide him and the staff with their reactions so that the

30

document can be reviewed to the Board’s satisfaction by
its next meeting.

The Regents received a detailed account of the pro-
cesses followed in soliciting and reviewing competitive
bids for all areas of Smithsonian food service operations,
and it was noted that the Secretary will soon be selecting
the successful bidders. In view of the current low rates of
interest, the Board authorized the Secretary to secure a
commercial loan for the purpose of financing the costs of
constructing and furnishing the terrace restaurant facili-
ties at the National Air and Space Museum.

Mr. Adams noted that, following a lengthy period of
negotiation, the staffs of the Institution and the Federal
Aviation Administration have agreed on the language of
an option of the lease of land at Washington Dulles In-
ternational Airport on which to expand facilities of the
National Air and Space Museum.

After discussing informative reports on major develop-
ment initiatives, the status of the closure of the Rockville
facility of the Smithsonian Environmental Research
Center, and the future of the Renwick Gallery and Smith-
sonian crafts programs, the Regents formally approved
a revision to the bylaws of the Commission of the Na-
tional Portrait Gallery. In addition, having considered the
prevailing conditions of visitor parking, the Board con-
cluded that, in view of the Institution’s fundamental re-
sponsibilities for ensuring the safety of the Smithsonian’s
visitors and the protection of its staff and national col-
lections, and in view of related financial and administra-
tive burdens of maintaining current levels of public park-
ing, the Secretary should end all public parking on
Smithsonian museum lots by October tr.

The Secretary introduced reports on a variety of addi-
tional subjects, including the potential effects on the
Smithsonian of changes to the Inspectors General Act of
1978, the status of the payroll/personnel system, the
quadrangle and other major construction projects, Mu-
seum Support Center storage equipment, legislation, liti-
gation, Smithsonian magazines, plans for the bicenten-
nial of the Constitution, the National Science Resources
Center, and television.

In recognition of his leadership and great service as
Chancellor of the Smithsonian from 1969 until the
present, the Regents gave a sustained standing ovation
and elected the Honorable Warren E. Burger as Chancel-
lor Emeritus with all the rights, privileges, and responsi-
bilities thereto, upon his retirement.

The traditional Regents’ dinner was held in the Re-
gents’ honor at the home of Vice President and Mrs. Bush
on Sunday, September 14. After Mr. Adams spoke about
the significance of the Board of Regents in the gover-
nance of the Smithsonian and expressed his gratitude for
the opportunity to work with them, the Vice President
announced that the Regents had voted unanimously to
award to the Chancellor the Institution’s highest honor,
the James Smithson Medal, which the Vice President
presented with the following citation:

With warm affection, gratitude and deep respect
The Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution
presents the James Smithson Medal to
WARREN E. BURGER
Your wise and principled leadership,
coupled with sensitivity
to the Smithsonian’s responsibilities
as well as opportunities,
and deep understanding of its mandate for the
Increase and Diffusion of Knowledge,
have left a shining record of your contributions
as Chancellor of the Institution, 1969-1986.

The Chancellor thanked the Vice President and the Re-
gents for this special honor, adding that his duties as
Chancellor had been the source of great pleasure over
the years, and he felt it had been a privilege to be a part
of the remarkable growth of the Smithsonian during his
tenure.

A unique ivory sculpture attributed to the Vili (Congo), this cele-
brated work purchased by the National Museum of African Art
appears to have been a staff top used by chiefs as an emblem of
power. (Photograph by Bruce Fleischer)
Financial Report

Ann R. Leven, Treasurer

The Institution’s financial report for fiscal year 1986
portrays a year of contrasts. On the one hand, in the
wake of Gramm-Rudman-Hollings, the Institution began
a thorough reassessment of its goals and priorities, as
well as the costs of achieving them. On the other, given
the availability of previously appropriated funds matched
by private dollars, construction proceeded at a rapid
pace on the quadrangle. Trust funds provided the where-
withal for the Institution to consummate the purchases
of the Deletaille Collection for the National Museum of
African Art and the Vever Collection for the Arthur M.
Sackler Gallery. Both collections will be housed in the
quadrangle.

Operations

Federal monies provided the core support for the Institu-
tion’s continuing programs of research, exhibitions, edu-
cation, and collections management as well as related
administrative and support services. For the fiscal year
ending September 30, 1986, the federal government ini-
tially provided $176,995,000 to fund ongoing operations,
an increase of $12.7 million over fiscal year 1985. How-
ever, as a result of the Gramm-Rudman-Hollings Act,
this amount was subsequently reduced by 4.3 percent (or
$7,611,000) to $169,384,000. This reduction necessitated
hiring freezes, curtailment of equipment purchases for
research and collections management, postponement of
selected activities, limits on travel and publications, and,
sadly for the visiting public, elimination of summer
evening hours at Institution museums.

Careful readers of the annual financial statements will
see a $2,316,000 balance in federal funds. The monies in
question come from diverse sources and were given this
year to the Institution for expenditure over several years:
$1,354,000 equivalent in excess foreign currencies for
scientific work primarily in India but also in Pakistan,
Burma, and Guinea; $917,000 from the Department of
State for research projects in India; and $45,000 in reim-
bursements at the Smithsonian Tropical Research Insti-
tute. One hundred eighty-five thousand dollars in un-
committed federal operating monies for salaries and
expenses were returned to the Treasury at year end.

The Institution benefited from specific project grants
and contracts, totaling $15,534,000 from government
agencies and bureaus. These monies contitute an impor-
tant source of research funding for the Institution while
providing the grantors access to Smithsonian expertise

32

and resources, particularly in biological studies and
astrophysics.

Income from nonappropriated trust funds—including
gifts, grants, endowments, current investments, and
revenue-producing activities—made the critical difference
in fiscal year 1986. The Institution was able to undertake
new ventures and strengthen existing outreach programs
in a way that might not have been possible otherwise.
Recognizing the potential for a financially difficult year,
the Regents authorized the Institution’s use of additional
endowment income for one year only as an exception to
established policy, as indicated in the Notes to Financial
Statements, below.

The Institution was further blessed with an $825,000
increase over fiscal year 1985 in restricted gifts and grants
from individuals, foundations, and corporations.
Increased revenues from the Institution’s retail activities
and membership programs provided venture capital for
the Air & Space/Smithsonian magazine while offsetting
lost revenue from public parking. In the wake of
national concern over terrorism, the Institution closed its
major public parking facility under the National Air and
Space Museum.

It is useful to compare the Institution’s sources of op-
erating funds on a gross and net basis, keeping in mind
that expenditures necessary to generate trust revenues,
such as those for publishing Smithsonian magazine, also
contribute to fulfilling James Smithson’s mandate to in-
crease and diffuse knowledge.

Source Gross Net Net
of Funds Revenues Income Income %
($1,000s) ($1,000s)
Federal
Appropriation $169,384 $169,384 74%
Gov’t Gr. and
Contracts 15,534 15,534 7.
All Trust
Sources 174,462 42,891 wD)
Total Available
for Operations $359,380 $227,809 100%

Acquisitions of works of art played an important part
in the Institution’s fiscal year 1986 financial picture. The
Smithsonian funds its collecting activities out of operat-
ing funds. As previously noted, the Institution recorded
the purchase of the Deletaille Collection and the Vever

Collection. In doing so, the Regents authorized the draw
down of approximately $3,000,000 in the Institution’s
unrestricted trust fund balance. The fund balance is to
be restored to its previous level of $5,000,000 at the ear-
liest feasible date.

Moreover, in a unique arrangement conceived by the
directors of the concerned museums, an important
grouping of African objects collected by Joseph
Hirshhorn was transferred to the National Museum of
African Art. In return, the Institution established an ac-
quisition fund, held in endowment, for the Hirshhorn
Museum and Sculpture Garden in honor of its benefac-
tor. Coincidentally, the Hirshhorn Museum undertook a
program of deaccessioning that lead to the auction of
works considered beyond the scope of the museum. Two
million dollars in proceeds were added to the newly es-
tablished Joseph Hirshhorn Acquisition Fund.

Construction and Plant Services

Quadrangle construction was approximately 97 percent
complete at the end of fiscal year 1986. Final prepara-
tions are under way for the scheduled opening in Sep-
tember 1987. Federal appropriations have funded 50 per-
cent of the project with matching funds provided by
private donors.

The principle of joint private and federal partnerships
will assure construction of the Earl S. Tupper Research
and Conference Center at the Smithsonian Tropical Re-
search Institute. The Smithsonian is deeply grateful to all
parties who have made these projects possible.

Additional federal appropriations totaling $5,281,000
were provided to the National Zoological Park for a
health and research facility, the design of the aquatic
habitat exhibit, as well as for general repairs and im-
provements.

Endowment

The Smithsonian’s endowment fund was valued at
$181,160,780 on September 30, 1986, topping its previ-
ous year-end high on September 5, 1985. The Institution
has been equity oriented; this posture served it well as
the stock market enjoyed an ebullient period during sum-
mer 1986. The endowment has been further enhanced by
a transfer of $3,000,000 from revenues generated by the
Institution’s auxiliary activities, in keeping with past

practices aimed at strengthening this important Institu-
tional asset.

The role of the Institution’s Investment Policy Com-
mittee continues to be critical to the success of the en-
dowment. In spring 1986, Regent Barnabas McHenry
was designated by the Chancellor as the new chairman
of this committee. Regent Carlisle H. Humelsine stepped
down as acting chairman. Mrs. Jane Mack Gould, senior
vice president of Alliance Capital Management Corpora-
tion, joined the committee. Mr. T. Ames Wheeler, former
Treasurer of the Institution, resigned from the committee
after more than fifteen years of devoted service.

After a thorough analysis of the effectiveness of the
investment managers and a review of eighteen prospec-
tive managers, a decision was made to replace one of the
Institution’s managers. The firm of Miller, Anderson and
Sherrerd now joins Fiduciary Trust Company of New
York, Batterymarch Financial Management, and The
Nova Fund as an investment advisor. Advisors are given
full discretion as to asset allocation and stock selection
within guidelines set by the Investment Policy Commit-
tee. The change in managers gave the Smithsonian the
opportunity to rebalance the portfolio. Thus, as the fi-
nancial statements show, at year end 18 percent of the
endowment was held in money market accounts as man-
agers redeployed assets.

On the question of South African investments, the In-
stitution maintained its policy of investing only in United
States corporations operating in South Africa that have
signed the Sullivan Principles, a code of conduct for such
corporations. The Smithsonian does not have and never
has had any direct investments in South Africa. Holdings
in corporations that had not signed the Sullivan Princi-
ples were disposed of based on action taken by the Re-
gents in June 1985. In January 1986, the Institution liqui-
dated its position in the Trustees’ Commingled Fund—
International Equity Portfolio in recognition of the diffi-
culty of monitoring non—United States holdings.

Mindful both of their fiduciary obligations and of the
Institution’s position in American society, the Regents
continue to monitor events in South Africa and develop-
ments in United States policy with respect to that nation.
The Smithsonian is a member of the South Africa Re-
search Consortium—a loose federation of over forty col-
leges and universities—which sponsors research of cur-
rently available information on South Africa. The
Institution is particularly aware of the Reverend Leon
Sullivan’s proposed May 31, 1987, deadline for South
Africa to abolish apartheid.

33
Financial Management Activities

After a year of reassessment and evaluation, fiscal year
1986 was one of new beginnings in the many areas re-
porting to the Treasurer. A tireless staff made the year
one of significant accomplishments and promise for the
future.

Falling under the aegis of the Treasurer is a diverse
group of activities: Office of Accounting and Financial
Services; Office of Financial Management and Planning;
Museum Shops; Mail Order Division; Parking; Conces-
sions; Product Licensing; and Office of Risk Manage-
ment. With the exception of the Office of Accounting
and Financial Services, the orientation 1s primarily on
generating trust funds. The Treasurer maintains a close
working relationship with the Assistant Secretary for Ad-
ministration, the Office of Membership and Develop-
ment, and the Budget Office.

After more than seventeen years of service to the Insti-
tution and nearly twenty-three years of public service,
Allen S. Goff retired as assistant treasurer and director
of the Office of Accounting and Financial Services. Mr.
Goffs leadership during his long tenure is noteworthy.
More important, however, was his ability to visualize the
Office of Accounting and Financial Services in an era of
computerization and updated business practices; this
vision began to take shape under his leadership and is
his legacy to the Institution.

Shireen L. Dodson, formerly assistant director of the
Office of Accounting and Financial Services, was
appointed to the new position of Comptroller in August
1986. The office was reorganized and renovated for a
more productive utilization of space as well as for ac-
commodation of adequate equipment and furniture nec-
essary for effective operation. New policies and proce-
dures were established for cash disbursement. In
addition, implementation of short-term system improve-
ments were initiated. An analysis of the Institution’s re-
quirements for a payroll/ personnel system led to the
decision to utilize the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s
service bureau, the National Finance Center.

During the year, the Office of Financial Management
and Planning became deeply involved in soliciting a new
financial system for the Institution. With the help of out-
side consultants, progress was made in defining system
requirements and assessing the marketplace. A functional
task force—including representatives of the Office of Ac-
counting and Financial Services, the Budget Office, the
museums, and other bureaus—is assisting in this ongoing

34

effort. The Office of Risk Management began work on a
major Institutional initiative to develop a comprehensive
disaster planning program.

Business Activities

It was a banner year for both Mail Order and Museum
Shops. In the quest for Smithsonian-related educational
products of value and interest to our diverse audiences,
success in the marketplace was matched behind the
scenes with a flurry of activity to upgrade overloaded
computer facilities and outdated warehouse facilities.
Product Licensing activities were revitalized, enabling the
Institution to benefit from unique Smithsonian-related
merchandise created by major American manufacturers.
Noteworthy are: Reeves’ “First Ladies Dolls” from the
National Museum of American History collections and
Revell model kits replicating airplanes on view at the
National Air and Space Museum.

Perhaps the most monumental task undertaken by the
Business Management Office during 1986 was a reassess-
ment of food service activities at the Institution. A long
and arduous evaluation was made of potential conces-
sionaires who responded to publicly announced requests
for proposals. Over twenty staff members were involved
in the process shepherded by the Office of Procurement
and Property Management (formerly the Office of Sup-
ply Services). Contracts were awarded as the year closed
to daka, Inc., to provide public and employee food serv-
ices at the National Museum of American History, the
National Museum of Natural History, and the National
Museum of American Art and National Portrait Gallery;
to Guest Services, Inc., for similar services for the Na-
tional Air and Space Museum, the Hirshhorn Museum
and Sculpture Garden, and the Smithsonian Institution
Building; and to ARA for vending machine service
throughout the Institution. The Smithsonian appreciates
the cooperation of the Marriott Corporation throughout
the transition period.

Coincidental to but separate from the decisions made
with respect to concessionaires, the Institution completed
plans for a 1,000-seat cafeteria and a 200-seat restaurant
in a single ground-level public facility to replace the pres-
ently inadequate public cafeteria on the third floor of the
National Air and Space Museum. With the Regents’ ap-
proval, the Institution sought $11,000,000 in conven-
tional financing for the project, signing for a bank loan
with Riggs National Bank in December 1986.
Accounting and Auditing

The Treasurer wishes to express publicly her thanks to
the Smithsonian’s internal audit staff under Chris S.
Peratino [retired in March 1987]. The staff regularly re-
views the Institution’s financial activities and fiscal sys-
tems, assists the outside auditors, and does special
projects as required. The audit staff's advice and counsel
have been exceptionally helpful during the last two years
as the new Treasurer has reviewed almost all aspects of
the Institution’s fiscal operations.

The Institution’s funds, federal and nonappropriated,
are audited annually by the independent public account-
ing firm of Coopers & Lybrand. Coopers & Lybrand’s
consulting staff also provided assistance to the Institution
with respect to food service activities and financial sys-
tems and controls at the Cooper-Hewitt Museum.

Additionally, the Defense Contract Audit Agency con-
ducted audits of grants and contracts received from fed-
eral agencies, and monitored allocated administrative
costs.

The Audit and Review Committee of the Board of Re-
gents, chaired by Regent David Acheson, met three times
during the fiscal year pursuant to responsibilities under
the bylaws of the Institution. In addition to the review of
the 1985 audit performed by Coopers & Lybrand, the

committee gave special attention to the Institution’s busi-
ness activities, safeguards for handling hazardous materi-
als, internal controls, the loss of public parking, and the
Institution’s building-renovation program.

Coopers & Lybrand’s unqualified report for fiscal year
1986 is reprinted on the following pages.

Related Organizations

The Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars,
the National Gallery of Art, and the John F. Kennedy
Center for the Performing Arts were established by Con-
gress within the Institution. Each organization is admin-
istered by its own board of trustees and reports indepen-
dently on its financial status. Fiscal, administrative, and
other support services are provided to the Woodrow
Wilson International Center for Scholars on a reimburse-
ment basis by the Smithsonian; office space is made
available for Wilson Center operations. Administrative
services were also provided by the Institution on a con-
tract basis to Reading Is Fundamental and the Visions
Foundation. An independent nonprofit operation, the
Friends of the National Zoo operates under contract a
number of concessions that benefit the National Zoologi-
cal Park.

35
Smithsonian Institution Operating Funds

FISCAL MEARS 1969, 1975. 19305 1985. 1936

(In $1,000,000’s)

375
FUNDS PROVIDED
] THT
350 ] | ]] S\
WT |
| |
Wil |
325 —_
WHT] 1] | | Auxiliary
300 = = a || HII III and
| || Bureau
Activities F
275 = i Expenses Nonappropriated
Hill + Trust Funds
| | (Gross Revenues)
250 == — | Need
HAV
295, | iii |__| |
AU |
Unrestricted Net
200 = oar
Restricted
‘G5 Government Grants
ie ; and Contracts
150 = = —_
125 —

100

Federal
Appropriations

b

1965 1975 1980 1985 1986
375
FUNDS APPLIED*
To Plant and Endowment
350 Im aa
325 }
| i]
300 — HHH
Auxiliary and Bureau Activities Expenses
275
250 =
225
PALI
200 ——— ‘
Administration and Facilities Services
175
150 _— Special Programs Directorate of
International
Activities
125
100 Museums
7S
50 Public Service
25 Research

“Historical data for certain categories are

summarized for 1965, 1975 and 1980.

1980

1985

1986

Table 1 Financial Summary (In $1,000s)

FY 1985 FY 1986
INSTITUTIONAL OPERATING FUNDS
FUNDS PROVIDED:
RedenleApproprations=——salanies: Ge EX penSes) aise) /lols) sel char dein cis el ee ae elie telnet e $164,321 $169,384
Pramerianre nite Grantsnocs © O MELA CLSeaewe etal monet sv ereie oat aie oe) Giolohearst chee are Rae ete STARE He ORE Re errs 15,653 15,534
Nonappropriated Trust Funds:
Horm Nesta Cred UPULPOSES 0s. c= tales ee touche repartee leds cach el os santa cs sy astetiehs tote eves ns exeieobes woninmene ee renelesoheusl ea usbeds S87 13,314
For Unrestricted & Special Purposes:
AUIS ac yacs B Une allvAChiVitiesiXKGVEMUES— GLOSS) sae peicvecueisc)erslers heise aie evatar eleneiep epee siencliers 141,160 153,166
MESSING ALEGHEKPEMSES) te :eysl seideysgclisasnst er suns Sr asics t, ave [sate o ceus sum coast oher sucind sensi oneemeten mene Nemenoters (119,361) (Syl S710)
Aue lain Cel ree Aha HS INEM S gen egnedashoccoonadessaedonoogncoedgauooe 2Ie799 BV SYS)
Irnvestmmen te! Gittrocr@ then lmGOme mere sees cnet e ance ancncte nee me terete ciekechet ere oe ee eee 6,744 7,982
Total Net Wnnestricted cas pecialilsorpose Reventeman rire in eerenst nie reeieeteneta rete: 28,543 DVT
liorallNonap proprated arust hiunds— Grosses nfo er-rerchersicie eile eee ieieie ecter: 157,841 174,462
SING ae td See ots Cann. Kon R NCR ance eS ciao tomeeneacreiackhe crc 38,480 42,891
mtalt@ peratinerunds Pro vided—Grossicjei «any eles deste cart ohare mares. Wreueisnclavelar ase evrsie ie alcue tee s/c. eke eis 337,815 359,380
SN Cheer espe ett toy ceede ul (rep te cas sles, ceceue seek nae aEMe ores ceeboes eae $218,454 $227,809
FUNDS APPLIED:
RQESOTUAEM, 66 5-0 Sebi G32 Oey ORE CRO PRT SP IER PPO Te ISN Ets OL RC NET nS cia ne $ 51,607 $ 52,463
ESSISTA OKO VETHEACRECOVELY: a c1ciemecriac artiste win crate icinceensiel ere eiais eerels cle srarershel tener aeeiel sxeteere (2,282) (2,654)
LNG REITTG gyorg SORE eo On ENO CRORE RAIL AE Gok NER PIED RI PIS rs yo ad a I ee 76,346 89,765
EET CRSE NVI COMM TROIS rey sie cite core ae cies ae saree ad RIE De ates ooh Can RISEN TEE SR CA 4,480 4,229
Mrectoraterotlmieria tlonalyA ChiVitliesae qv-tiea tence ciclo oreo cle en oe oh clues ep creeeated roars 642 1,387
BPEclalLo Sram Simepeye ciety aeeesetRctans vetenabas ie: steve arvawe raMe lan adacrasleenattotone Gietsle age el mienaitens: Shans /dno-ehelarumvere ate 14,654 11,740
ASSOCIALESICCHD USINess! Mama Cement. yiue «ims mi isieuc stocyo deters oso bia cer eielieotaiie sus teieut ec vs alnver ays 930 1,043
PCL TSU OT RCCL A Lica pane wee, Nt te PeReIEN «AU RN DREN yo RCE SARA, SEPA Se SI (2 aie ys ree Oye 11,549 12,726
ESINOMAN DLO priated pln Ste MUM Sanyo x peucicue vole ioney acess cuisine ice = iele e arate sien abone ch acei-psrotin eisai ene 7,814 8,474
Wesoismmithsonians Overhead vRECOVERys cstecs 2 alone aise ene eeeys Ge Os wy wlenairé quelle GVeUe wae BR Se eae (7,391) (8,491)
PACU METESES CLVAGE Sommeaegede tenet ciecbancsycestovsy <0 8050/6 ey Suivi sy-Sduapa Ce oueieh cncbs aie si sun ovarwneh aensnaesayaeorsry seaitten aus ania age 48,576 51,302
oral® peratinpskrtnd SrA PME sre cera teu sis 2 wore ove, eceeusuusuc eye sr cueecuelate. «yess syebercie aisle s/Bieiecsira overseer 206,925 221,984
Transfers (Nonappropriated Trust Funds)
Wharestrictederun d= ll ar tie cy.c mycceieeretsnece caste PTS chet eo el cl Sea neha Sterol ores Sareea eens 20 87
= TOREM COW INEM teers niche coeuty etre ae ea oy ar LR eae tere 3,014 5,733
RestrictedtbundS— love nd OwimneMt: cjecenevers cc -sevis caves cle sieuens sree mei yere as) efouare sett eus etevateuscerers 129 2,314
Wotal@peratmegeunds Applied Se Inansferred| Out eae ae eels eee eine $210,088 $230,118
CHANGES IN NONAPPROPRIATED TRUST FUND BALANCES:
Restricted!Purpose (Includines Government Grants 6¢ @ontracts)). 2... 4-65-42 - ee ee eee aes $ 587 $ (28)
Wares triched=—=(GeneralePurposey weyers Hector emis chetores Caaraie tear sreyenonene toute. nA ryehexelees enemas 52 (3,094)
= SpeclalPBurposes arccevntiayte eye cm mee cis eye cuHeyeterels & Acetate w © ateWonrn cat eeyaeanenelenenercieyers LE 813
Total ..o.0 0 etnto ebistd eich ic CICLO I CIE CPD OO RSC Ree uote Cea Ree Io eae oretn irtord © $ 8,366 $ (2,309)
YEAR-END BALANCES—NONAPPROPRIATED TRUST FUNDS:
PES ETUC CMMUIGD OSC ravicyay co obey tener te Ct opcHGt PRC eRe ae AIS Gus cov ore SURV Eee taoiGot nat ye ape sys isiiaveyes woe $ 9,684 $ 9,656
Wrtrestricted=—G cneraliPUnpOSE crass sisuckeie os Feces Mice a als ttens Bid scons Fig ea lein & 4. von ho) ays, Ha neyausiotey 5,138 2,044
=O PE CIA PAUL POSE) Hep aenonarciei ete sick one erase ened Rene Bisvave ere Sooke aeieiaasle Sraieacuelieseltice uses ars 23,832 24,645
Byte es rep-trel eh ce seaech SS ei RE on css Sectch op aaveiee sR INES rte eNted omens eireoeh re A Big ae a ancrcban pte Gu vasncaner si vereoest $ 38,654 $ 36,345
OTHER FEDERAL APPROPRIATIONS **
Special! Foreiemi@urrencys nO era mae cracersravanereceresenaytieriorsvi leredepeney «Soa i vote llgp av ches e liauay old puaraiinge wares ays $ 8,820 $ 2,378
(EOMSERTICEL OT eR ee es oes eee tee rece) es suai ee cmc hoee Sumit sy gis sd Pheks Gla vsus Giese ayar eve Guar ereneue ole mls3326 19,621
iotalikederalvAppropriatiom (Includime Sica abOve) erie emisienaieisicieercicieierel aici sieiateled aetna neta $191,467 $191,383

“Includes unobligated funds returned to Treasury: FY 1985—$173,000; FY 1986—$185,000.
**Excludes $1,477,000 received in FY 1986 from the Department of State for research projects in India.
Table 2 Source and Application of Operating Funds for the Year Ended September 30, 1986
(Excludes Special Foreign Currency Funds, Plant Funds and Endowments) (In $1 ,000s)

lAUINID) BY NILAIN(CLES = O/GW/NS eooaseseceooooc

FUNDS PROVIDED

RederalbAppropiiations ey -ereeeseecies aeae
Investment Income
Government Grants and Contracts

Gifts

Other

FUNDS APPLIED

Research:
Assistant Secretary
Astrophysical Observatory
Less Overhead Recovery
Tropical Research Institute
Environmental Research Center
National Zoological Park
Smithsonian Archives
Smithsonian Libraries

Total Research

Museums:
Assistant Secretary
Museum Programs
National Museum of Natural History/ Museum
of Man
INationallAinGeSpaceMuseumieyy-9-0-7-1-1-te rire
National Museum of American History
National Museum of American Art ..........--
National Portrait Gallery
Hirshhorn Museum
Center for Asian Art
Archives of American Art
Cooper-Hewitt Museum
National Museum of African Art
Anacostia Neighborhood Museum
INatronalMusenmuActeye rset te iene aera
Conservation Analytical Laboratory
Office of Exhibits Central
Traveling Exhibition Service

Total Museums

38

Nonfederal Funds

Unrestricted Restricted
Total Government

Non- Grants

Federal federal Auxiliary — Special and
Funds Funds General Activities Purpose General Contracts
$ — $ 38,654 $ 5,138 $ — $23,832 $ 9,312 $372
$169,384 $ — §$ — $ — $ — $ — $ —_—
— Gs) 4,617 — 856 4,046 _
— 15,534 _— — _— 15,534
== 1007 42 3,8 294 6,318 =
= 6149516 Ae 511 6.602 = =
= 5,123 162 2,011 2,950 a
169,384 189,996 4,821 146,364 9,963 13,314 15,534
$169,384 $228,650 $ 9,959 $146,364 $33,795 $22,626 $15,906
$ 653) (SS s20S Ses — $ 36) ($5 382 Som
8,642 17,164 2,665 a 1,853 161 12,485
— (2,654) (2,654) _ — — —
3,613 932 101 — 364 388 79
S175) 698 WS —_— 97 43 483
11,105 573 ills} — 296 157 i
518 175 173 — 1 1 —
4,406 465 331 -— 49 85 _—
32,112 185873 895 eee
496 152 149 _ 3 _ —
366 504 7 — iil! 379 5
20,212 4,178 110 _ 1,343 1,606 lal)
8,143 2,934 8 — 2,210 369 347
11,650 1,918 295 —_ 831 742 50
4,692 1295) 46 — 273 976 _—
Sy ll7/ 314 23 _— 127 150 14
2,961 1,761 13 — 15253 495 _
2,934 8,578 5,598 _ 1,492 1,488 _—
854 863 22. — 2 839 _
932 2,681 773 — 1,434 434 40
2,349 OSS) 54 — 804 97 —
He 50 Oi -- 23 _— —
733 — — — — _— —
1,993 85) — _— 33 Z; _—
1,528 (16) = a (16) = as
380 SR) (4) 2,061 340 804 31
64,512 29,434 Pal 2,061 10,265 8,381 1,606

Table 2 Source and Application of Operating Funds for the Year Ended September 30, 1986
(Excludes Special Foreign Currency Funds, Plant Funds and Endowments) (In $1,000s)

Nonfederal Funds

Unrestricted Restricted
Total Government
Non- Grants
Federal federal Auxiliary — Special and
Funds Funds General Activities Purpose General Contracts
Public Service:
AGUISEATITRSEGKELALY ew ceen cil: ove ce ee eee 223 218 190 = (3) 31 —
SIG IEGOMMINLUIN CABONS eae elope eens eels) ors Ss me 195 694 555 — 139 _ —_
ReeqpHON CAME sosscanomendooscssuenonos 187 700 700 — — _ —
OfmccombublicAtfairs 25.40... oes ceeds ese 558 381 373 — 8 _ “=
SHG AGO MEIN U ESS: 5 acc.ceAb OA ae Oeaio Geta reno 1,066 13,167 lS} i15)5) — _— 2
otallPabli@Senvice: j.2 sss. 6 oon ee 2,229 15,160 1,818 13,155 144 31 12
Directorate of International Activities .......... 508 879 558 — 33 288 _—
Special Programs:
American Studies & Folklife Program .......... 680 1,318 598 — 98 401 22M
International Environmental Science Program 687 _ — _ — _ a
Academic & Educational Program ............ 625 2,381 399 — 1,856 126 --
Collections Management/Inventory ........... 1,030 — _ _ _ _ —
Miansermusup pore Genter ernie aa cial eels ee 4,653 110 — 110 _ —
JF Caner Grint 5 opononenagoodsn oosmenodD 333 — — _ — _— —
WotaltSpecialiProgramsi-= +. 22-46 2 8,008 3,809 997 — 2,064 S27 221
ASSOGIALEILTOSTAMS) a tianm a ticee ee eee sce aes ocr — TA 933 S27) 76,890 81 40 —
BMsiOess|NanaPeMeNnt yc t cases eee sees — 34,625 oo 34,625 _ _— —
AGITATION. 4 6 c.g ce RCI Oe en cIee oO EEO ee 12,541 9,738 7,039 = 2,563 134
Hess OVeErneadinecOvely, siiseiciei oct e oe c= — (8,491) (8,491) — = — —
FPACHATIES OELVAGES Us aiiey ceva: ete ncnateaeus ekenei shen eeam eteae 49,289 APN I 2,060 — 147 4 —
Transfers Out/(In):
Tins 2 SerSioes eorteseerekascis BIO een eet area 185 — = _ — - =
HUGS PLATS peat ter Poicyertone cin toacustaviarsusio.e sueison wifeats — = 5,450 -- (5,450) —
INetaurxiliany A'CtVITICS «coerce os oe eric > — — (18,650) 18,650 _ _ —
OrhemDesienated Purposesia..4- ls ela — — S159) 983 (6,176) 34 —
VERT tmeMe tance my ie aeati ic) atonal a, Svck See. airey exerts — 87 37/ -= 50 ~~ =
EENCLO WATLETIG = ae cpat over owe] Oc saciiorae (o eigev sires susie oaanre een _— 8,047 3,000 = 2133: 2,314 —
otalulranstersayner eam ree 185 8,134 (5,004) 19,633 (8,843) 2,348 =
Hotalikunds/Applied--.c + sane aes see $169,384 $192,305 $ 7,915 $146,364 $ 9,150 $12,970 $15,906
RUIN DIBAIUAINGES 9/30/86 % 0200 se sn si $ — $ 36,345 $ 2,044 $ — $24,645 $ 9,656 $ —

*Unobligated funds returned to Treasury.

**Includes Collection Acquisition, Scholarly Studies, Educational Outreach, and Special Exhibitions Programs.

39
Table 3 Government Grants and Contracts—Expenditures (In $1,000s)
Fiscal Years 1985 and 1986

Government Agencies FY 1985 FY 1986
AcencyatorlnternationaleD eveloprmien tapi serine teins tene tae Ratet eet etree stot eed teense $ 828 $ 763
Depa HE Of COMME snacoccebodsoosHeDaccs oan coUnDON SD OaOCONDD ODDS ODODSOSaDORE 87 37
Departimnentyo sD etenser erence eit sta eae ree ema eater ony Lote 1,245 1,676
Depa OTT saonceocc6ooedooneboduEUTCandboOD OL OdanCOOSsSGOOGDOOsUCOOOnES 260 509
Department oplealthyandidumeantSenviGes mee yt leila td ee kel eter ee ie 438 461
Departmentso Antero eee were error tie) an arene ra eee enki eo 196 319
INational’NeronauticsjandiSpaceAdministrations eeeeeaaieeieinieniaieieiie ae oi eeincecieere ae 11,425 10,992
NEvional Seemesltonnckinom’ coosoeo pou sboogGeoandH ood KOO OOo ONaR ODEO OOD OOOO OO UD OOS 895 675
(Cine 5. ake aap: dio Paco oko IC cic SERCO ERE OID Ons O oho o> Dao cininis io cipeedo Oni Gg plo. cu der teped tho Ofc 194 474

WO Cal eerreetrcr seca oc heen ceepelis fae atetey career ammeter tee pomp NC e o rs cn cwayema marae ethos $15,568 $15,906

*Includes $495,000 (FY 1985) and $420,000 (FY 1986) in subcontracts from other organizations receiving prime contract funding
from NASA.
**Includes $321,000 (FY 1985) and $261,000 (FY 1986) in NSF subcontracts from the Chesapeake Research Consortium.

Table 4 Restricted Operating Trust Funds*
Fiscal Years 1985 and 1986 (In $1,000s)

Fund
Net balance
Total Transfers increase end of

Investment Gifts Miscellaneous revenue Deductions in(out) (decrease) year

ESV 8 Sic conic tye va cherie nene.s 2 $3,639 $5,493 $ 805 $ 959387 $ 95306 $29) $502 $9,312
FY 1986:
Astrophysical Observatory ....... $ 42 $ 141 $ — Sy eSS) ae GI See, $ 49 Saeplel
Tropical Research Institute ....... 69 296 — 365 388 12 (11) 496
National Zoological Park ........ 25 239 3 267 157 — 110 228
@ther/Researchie es arioe eter eee 288 331 — 619 511 (176) (68) $3933)
Museum Programs: =... se 5 6 21 505 10 536 379 _- 157 255
National Museum of Natural

LIS OLY ieee) ngegens -aere) cuckeae ice 1,354 282 13 1,649 1,606 (303) (260) 1,269
National Air and Space Museum .. . 1S) 672 2 789 369 -- 420 Sei
National Museum of American

TISCODY sss nnegekev.casicuv-wkendo eco 148 1,473 5) 1,626 742 —_ 884 WF?
National Museum of American Art . 91 463 5 559 976 — (417) 246
National Portrait Gallery ........ 14 187 — 201 150 — Sil 196
Hirshhorn Museum............. 83 4 IFO 52 2,039 495 (1,876) (332) 256
Genter for Asiam Art ... 53. .5..- 1,389 38 509 1,936 1,488 = 448 1,689
Archives of American Art ........ 37. 553 200 790 839 —= (49) 305
Cooper-Hewitt Museum ......... 93 276 33 402 434 (33) (65) 971
Traveling Exhibition Service ...... 56 102 — 158 804 = (646) 242
Other Museums) sees eens 10 138 (1) 147 99 — 48 145
American Studies and Folklife

| Pitaysa en OSS ene enene mictees be cor INF 285 198 500 401 99 127
PANN @ thre tee stiasys seve. ai reenter aenelcas 194 333 21 548 623 1 (74) 353

TOBIN MOG sooanncense $4,046 $6,318 $2,950 $13,314 $10,622 $(2,348) $344 $9,656

*Does not include Government Grants and Contracts.

AO
Table 5 Unrestricted Trust Funds—General and Auxiliary Activities

Fiscal Years 1985 and 1986 (In $1,000s)

FUNDS PROVIDED

General Income:
MAES MEN tSHa spesehesoisieesrs sore ois eens ei

(Gilli “Gs Scag heron PRO eE cht eee

Auxiliary Activities Income (Net):

AERO GENIC er OG oto OO ERRNO ROR eee e
Business Management:

—Museum Shops and Mail Order ......
—Concessions and Parking ...........
EO) ele Meee tase tuts cise igle se se avis
SIMILASOMIAMUELESS N-rgeeieieiS © se @ ae oss 31
iravelneiexbibitions) ssc se se oa
IBRO@CONSEGVIGES er iycieuse isis) scl e ce e 2

Total Auxiliary Activities .........
Total Funds Provided (Net) .......
EXPENDITURES AND TRANSFERS

Administrative and Program Expense .....
Less Administrative Recovery ...........

INGRIESISNIS Guaseaqcedaceoman oe

Less Net Transfers Out:
To Special Purpose for Program Purposes
‘Ti Pieri Sure Cane oie santas crs om

NET ADDITION TO FUND BALANCE . .
ENDING FUND BAUANCE 2.25. -5-5.-

*Effective with FY 1986 Photo Services is classified in the Unrestricted Special Purpose Funds.

FY 1985 FY 1986
Sabai 3i7/ $ 4,617
3Y/ 42

233 162
4,407 4,821
13,518 11,284
5,292 6,076
1,077 1,720
(228) (238)
2,176 IL soy7/
(311) (566)

11 _—

AAV 5S)3)5) 19,633
2S)942 24,454
73373) 24,064
9,673 11,145
7,700 12,919
15,170 IES 2:
20 37
3,000 3,000
18,190 14,629
52 (3,094)

$ 5,138 $ 2,044

41
Table 6 Auxiliary Activities Fiscal Years 1985 and 1986 (In $1,000s)

Sales
and Less Net
membership cost of Gross revenue*
Activity revenue Gifts sales revenue Expenses (loss)
FESS OS acer wes sarong art cs Sead oe es Caney cache MI cA $132,218 $33150) $76,593 S$S85775) S87-240 Seis
FY 1986:
INGSOGLATES Ya case ayes uereas ote saves coy Su AEN ae Penis sShievVeecum cs bebevousceusos 84,320 3,853 58,686 29,487 18,204 11,283
Business Management:
== Museumishops/ MaliOrder sateen 39,029 — 20,998 18,031 11,956 6,075
—(Comesssinne/idlsins sooposbcssbueadeaannoendebc 2,660 — — 2,660 939 72
== OEM natenehes mottistatasirn aiorsisity Gus eAw Saino id eile gs stexesensle 495 —_ — 495 732 (237)
Smithsonianieressmee eerie cic pee Cine eer 14,513 — 4,328 10,185 8,827 1,358
iiravelinpaexhibitionsm merece re mice eee creer 1,494 _ 657 837 1,404 (S67)
BhotomServices!(Administratiom) 2) cis senile sree cee anne — —_ — — — _—
dotalBRNGd!9 86s E ete acccterel neon iene ep eae $142,511 $3,853 $84,669 $61,695 $42,062 $19,633

*Before revenue-sharing transfers to participating Smithsonian bureaus of $815,000 (FY 1985) and $983,000 (FY 1986).
**E ffective with FY 1986 Photo Services is classified in the Unrestricted Special Purpose Funds.

42
Table 7 Unrestricted Special Purpose Funds
Fiscal Years 1985 and 1986 (In $1 ,000s)

Revenue Deductions
Gifts Fund
and Bureau Net balance
Bureau other Total Transfers Program activity increase end of
Investment activities revenue revenue in(out) expense expense (decrease) year
EN’ TO OSYS a ckeecoa Race eRe Eee $645 $5,792 $1,692 $8,129 $15,156 $10,030 $5,528 S727 2S ook
FY 1986:
Astrophysical Observatory ..... $ 13 O eo ty G2 Sy aie $y Oe SS 830 8 BOG 8 BO oo Moly
SAo@omputer Center =... ....-- — 520 = 520 130 _ Say 123 123
Tropical Research Institute ..... — 199 — 199 720 210 154 555 657
Environmental Research Center. . 8 16 1 25 119 Of, — 47 238
National Zoological Park ...... 292 = 506 798 173} 296 = 675 3,746
National Museum of Natural
TNS HON ke, cececoee sean eee eee 26 1 TU 104 1,148 1,343 — (91) 1,185
National Air and Space Museum . 105 2,820 287 3} iD (148) 948 1,262 854 2,160
National Museum of American
FAIStORYA rait nieve Stes: ceevers cee nee 18 45 134 197 994 814 17 360 1,394
National Museum of American
JNTAT oc. o°0, 0/8 dio HEIRS eae 37 8 362 407 493 264 8) 627 963
National Portrait Gallery ...... 4 14 51 69 DSS) 116 11 IQ 319
Hirshhorn Museum........... 145 — 11 156 (1,840) 1,253 — (22987) S59)
Center for Asian Art .......... — — — — 1,496 1,492 = 4 4
Cooper-Hewitt Museum ....... 26 1,068 206 1,300 45 667 767 (89) 662
National Museum of African Art 3 1 22) 26 704 802 2 (74) 464
Traveling Exhibition Service .... 3 —_— 8 11 1,685 340 — 1,356 1,802
Telecommunications .......... = 67 = 67 42 137 2 (30) 134
SikGomputeri Center aes. a. = 1,169 _— 1,169 6 _ 7S _ —
Fellowships & Grants ......... 32 — — 32 IL Oy 1,760 — 69 1,289
Museum Support Center ....... _ _ 110 = (110) 208
WerabilitvaNesenvess -ism ccs acc — —_— — — (133) (671) — $38 3,908
Unallocated Programs* ........ — (1,165) — — (1,165) 520
PNIN@ theron sie o.. feo e eer 144 516 578 1,238 1,340 2,345 418 (185) 3,131
TNOSIUANE TENG IES, Goaoeec $856 $6,802 $2,305 $9,963 $ 8,843 $13,153 $4,840 $ 813 $24,645

“Includes Collection Acquisition, Scholarly Studies, Educational Outreach, and Special Exhibitions Programs.
Table 8 Special Foreign Currency Program
Fiscal Year 1986—Obligations (In $1,000s)

Systematic
and Astrophysics
environmental and earth Museum Grant
Country Archaeology biology sciences programs Administration Total
Dire (apap Fanci acuncich ces w i aaciarsucnsneiessmaece $ — $ — $— $— $13 $2 sis
PALTV ean ors Son Oe OD OD USD OG Oe aoe IB 4s 108 7 4 60 Sls}
BS WUGIIN AG Bey ore 2: cee sisy ees ov os gortomerienasedlshatts ashauoxen — 25 _ — — 25
Guineal seater teehee oeibe eee keiae 30 — — -- — 30
fo callUEsvasll9 8 Gitewere tanec sten sce tcerensne $1,164 $133 $ 7 $ 4 $73 $1,381
*Includes $1,020 for the preservation of Moenjodaro Project.
Table 9 Construction and Plant Funds
Fiscal Years 1985 and 1986 (In $1,000s)
FY 1985 FY 1986
FUNDS PROVIDED
Federal Appropriations:
National Zoological Park <. a Nite ciecas 2 ela oes eicictee aves se aise shee sid sos eee, Sohne melee) orc $ 4,851 $ 5,280
Restorationrand Renovationlofbuildingsayrmeieraieie oe sil eieieie eiereisiereneenerciel telefono 13,475 10,536
(Oyeeayebeeteysd (2) & Aeacucitieng Peracr ten otar ae heen ee’, aeRO CDRS AIS. PONT Sa ONS OG — 3,805
dotaltRederaliAip propriationsee a..crerca ote Ske oe) oe eeers ein eis epeehas eee eyaunee 2 o's) ste Pene otetera er roles 18,326 19,621
Nonappropriated Trust Funds:
Income—Gift and Other
Smithsonian Environmental Research Center—Gain on Sale ............--0 020 e eee e ee eees _ 161
Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute—Research Facilities .............0-00 0c eee eee eee 373 767
Brectioniom) acksonvllesBand standin .nt siete ae ocaeys sien meine Chee oes tee rota 3 2
Coopersilewtt Minsetima rye sicis cysis ote oun = iene eribacs avis Ss 2S) © Tohie ol ees wy a1 e telsuone el ouerene teveneU =i a ssuansrexe 2,544 537
AMNews cain /Nae caval Royqaryte (Calleiny wnielints soa gcoeaneodadnengcoasguesaucouopoonone OnE 20 13
Quadraneleand| Related e-pryu tyes os selene Reise os cesta ep deena phd «sexiest sey: 1,908* 12S
Smithsonian Institution’ Buildine:-South Entrance ayes ieee) seleielsteieliiiens elie ereiaion aie 1 35
otal come ye essa ewe 1 redcu OI e ev EO whan each chee eiel wii os Dies chicesrtie | Aiche eueots shee 4,849 2,640
Transfers from Current Funds:
National MuseumiofiAiricantArt: 2.222.205 saves Rune Sve Om arele Sola eicreme cite woe ererete uote 20 19
ASK GArGeNiy ye, coos ais teiw seca este tec pet coteneutehe tones oles oi op cue tee Sa nore totes eh edetsofionel wtew ansacticue creme siete ta outa 50
Secretanies Residences os 5 syste sess ctye seco re steve deme Tee RC  Tenet ea ey cts To suena aaa Gauci eewre mentee — 18
Mo tall MramsSfErs & coos cose Seaeeats Be eS SL ea Ee TR ER EM ONOY Eo overs aD A adam cnc ah me aioe cee 20 87
Notalikundsibrovided! rac .csteeusy-vereu-eeleeansacra et stenorer sierra rear Tor mPeey seoeneree netoois sist atone le core ous a iCeenen $23,195 $22,348

*In the application of Plant Funds for this project, a $4,000,000 pledge receivable was written off as uncollectible in FY 1985, and
$1,000,000 was refunded in FY 1986 on a previously collected pledge.

44
Table 10 Endowment and Similar Funds September 30, 1986 (In $1,000s)

Book Market
Value Value
ASSETS
Pooled Consolidated Endowment Funds:
(Canin aingl Ri@nivall a GSmeeigs Ge ean Oee tas pe Mon Rerny ieee Mian fan. o Samurn aw seu ao $ 33,495 $ 33,495
IOIMGIS 5 © wid BS AicreS2e GOI Occ ERATE ELOISE en RE PD eerie ey ER on a 13,404 13-955)
Cereal ole TOG Sa rarges, Stahl ISS See IGS ORC RS SIC Sen es An acarvin ae axl a5 1,000 980
NPCS oc 5 cee SG aah SSA RAD Pn ne OE Can nes REMY PO ERS Ae Re aa 2727. 131,360
“TWovielll teva) heal atavavaley aaseatd oan ce caaicte oto tiie GLa AE RCO CEES ARS RM Ee RAINS 6 CO eee dis 160,626 179,790
Nonpooled Endowment Funds:
MGAanOlOpS ml TLeaSlLy Ime CLPELUILY eis eis ere catenins aittenaceeiten + a cele scilemetetnen sen el eersne seme 1,080 1,080
INL OiXES IRGESRATOS cacecvcn oat hie Ror otica ae CAREER CR REECE TOs ICI nN RCIEE a ea PRS oh CRE eid beret 44 44
[SOMCE 5 6 db ad Sida ccontic Seon en nen One SR ie, Sica 10 10
IL iraval, INIGIE’ a's ienthaty needs Satine ree GER cee cen eRe ary oS Reg arp PIR macht dt ode Co ri Raye ere 237 237),
MoralpNonpoolediBunds! % sya © sie cisie Stocks Oud o.d08 ew Se sts revste eral cok Reach on meee wees il 37 1,371
orabendowmentandomilar bund Balances: «cc. 2 se 0: sh eti vie se clone ohn eiom © as = olaeienemenenars $161,997 $181,161
FUND BALANCES
tines chicrecsalinpose:m nue End OWIMeENt tee mye late ciclo esreust cues 4) soe eel eee eieis acre ete SIG Sy i593)
OuasiBudowment* pia cee cer es ele eles te cena eee carer eee ere 71,455 76,896
Potala nnestnicteddRurposereiec a ckancs xs secre eas sarees neal nes ee RUSE ee ed eae oie ree 76,571 83,209
Resimaeal PU OSSS Uedts Brave Konacsals oon aeoteaclacto nace Oca coos embic gece bose. Uiocoicoegcioe ac 62,267 72,150
O wast ndowme ney. scoreece cnc sitcoms f oasnene seen ee © cI net T OE ARO ae ee BASS) 25,802
floralllwestricted! Bump Ose) ae ere ca topes ersycrcher esis fo Ml fares) eye ehreis.5 leid sowie! orlave yes alGvegh oe fav's tree 85,426 97,952
Toul Englonwmene cual Simlved come BRIbINEES Gogsosnoeamouananaonobaostooaceeanaanenooces $161,997 $181,161

45
Table 11 Market Values of Pooled Consolidated Endowment Funds (In $1,000s)

Fund 9/30/82 9/30/83 9/30/84 9/30/85 9/30/86
Winnestrictedia racers racr tei ocak e Sees are alaiseasus ois oho eee $35,974 $ 54,677 $ 56,592 $ 65,404 $ 81,992
BI) Catan creat aren toe nti UCR RCE aire ara RORERERE ECT CR NOTA aarp 22,596 32,096 SHS AS) 34,066 39570)
Other Westnictedimsm ceric sae Oe stats ce careks serene aes 30,288 43,911 43,396 47,830 58,228

UU Call yeeseseeyeeytc sce yo aie eaten operetta aslerre ay aera $88,858 $130,684 $131,113 $147,300 $179,790
Table 12 Changes in Pooled Consolidated Endowment Funds for Fiscal Year 1986 (In $1,000s)

Market Gifts Interest Income Market Market
value and and paid value value

Fund 9/30/85 transfers dividends* out Subtotal appreciation 9/30/86
Winnestnicted seen $ 65,404 $5,770 $2,83 $2,530 Se HCAT eT $10,515 $ 81,992
nee Wyn aeks has sore olnns neve 34,066 — 1,42 1,262 34,224 5,346 39,570
@ther Restricted 5........... 47,830 2,736 2,01 1797 50,786 7,442 58,228

Uo tal reer neous nase $147,300 $8,506 $6,27( $5,589 $156,487 $23,303 $179,790

*Income earned, less managers’ fees of $711,722.
Table 13 | Endowment Funds September 30, 1986

Principal Income
Book Market Net Unexpended
value value income balance
UNRESTRICTED PURPOSE—TRUE:
Awieiny [tunnel "3 aero seoetguthe One Bose bo oe RR ORTO Cacao nen nS ea aaa Ilo) s&s 216,478 $ 8.730" 3S -(-
ie beewmidannya Memon alls er.) aye eyacheyaveualeeveee c.« useage eye y «12s, sees. 50,322 63,528 2,027 -()-
PAC ROMS HAULAGE meaychercveusrtis| Sie fersneyareuest = easier. 5. Shaveure asa je euer evens 276,651 298,546 24,647 -0-
IO ELO WARD WiOln ta ome are tious hay wcxcrsyeces eccrssmiemegede Sieeap ects ork sie 303,166 390,791 12,467 -(-
Miginan, Allinael ot Qoateat Sane hte o Siem Sins Ran eae 94,255 114,284 3,646 -()-
Oeasiedl, latalemwAs augers Bias ee eI ota ete hese a Geen 3,163 3,989 127 -(-
Oxerme cy lcandhGeOrge We sus csyie cise e cueneae snc oienere 675,476 865,676 31,092 -0-
ROLLcrmuennyahinkew Memorial mrcieuiercdedeie aici Gees sya ee 1,120,822 1,443,048 46,034 -()-
RUM OL C en GEOLE Cid surge feeretn en mueheye yegenere (ss Syeiere cas fous sheave wee eee 4,829 5,827 329 -0-
SANGO, ATES” gyi eSNG oe Se cid ie ee cl ae OMe Gr ee 662,436 662,074 91,702 -0-
Walcott, Charles D. and Mary Vaux,
esearch (Designated) leer cum porye uae sisters sycqsneue ners sy here tare 1,752,790 2,249,029 71,745 63,624
SUbiOZll - s aenow dala die moracieetercia aioe cla, Clara Be aio Sate rane 5,115,780 6,313,270 292,546 63,624
UNRESTRICTED PURPOSE—QUASI:
BOETES MNO DELtaS COM Ane ey arse oon teeta vane ent e eieeees Sie eis ered 4,241,189 4,348,756 138,728 -0-
(Gamerall ine Oxnraerl ee ee en ee ee a 58,791,104 63,683,642 SYD TAL -(-
(Goldlarral, Rvoleeme lel. dic scheehersiaas etc aee aa reenact nie ee 33,567 34,439 1,099 -0-
[Btelorll, IDES 5s gic. &'6:0 ose OOS ECTi Sancho ee 612 611 85 -0-
Lali, GUS EINATIS 18." 5.5 acc tcck ocr eect asc ken MEER Cee ae net ce eRe ae 2,196 2,578 82 -0-
HeMGy al @ALOQUNC WRENS Cee afore cit Sa Rkre eens Sam eamevee ve Aes SRS 5,433 6,356 203 -0-
lente) osepheandiidarnietwAw =)si ais canine cies aco teisiere soereetere 2 218,369 254,236 8,110 -()-
[RIG WS5 Ie C ae te ie eee tt oe Oe ee ee 407,690 423,157 13,499 -0-
lRhumiaoyal,, CHYTATS SIUC Ia aie MRR eh ars eek See Ae nr 6 gE es 110,694 123,787 3,949 -0-
iLavmlbeni, PEAS, so. o8od.6 Gicetenee Oe oc eee re CERT a ee Irae 199,870 227,104 7,245 -0-
IMigelimins; (Gravee lL." BSR ere fiers PEMD oh aie a we un ee 4,039 4,212 134 -0-
RIDEESeMWN Al liarrih] ONESEMNe.doRVeRee at oercneda, <. sic suecke eb casweraeaes Gene 2,835 3,186 178 -(-
Satfordm ©laralouiseawycnce. sere rcc wees es ee eRe oo oon 186,787 197,653 6,305 -0-
Sin neoman Beqwese Fim 5 sacl ceonoboodeGonuueusaneedo 1,064,824 1,095,595 26,175 -0-
Pagcania Ganson maren esc s acca ete eeth aca sc cistete ences mee asec 1,892 2,408 77 -0-
Apiooa, Whillbernll, (iDestareieel) oan ocdoeasoocvenecdonneooonee 511,653 Se SO 19,063 54,536
Bargin, lnmeclene ID). (Desieineiesal) 5 sog0nonocbodscgosccepanuas 4,283 4,995 158) 6,250
Hirshhorn Museum Acquisition Fund (Designated) ............- 2,764,147 2,904,378 92,651 97,303
Lindbergh Chair of Aerospace History (Designated) ............ 1,942,809 2,069,720 66,025 80,346
eindbers hay CharlessAry(W esig mated) immerse atelier cies seca 17,836 XO) S7/ | S92 10,882
Lyon, MMereus Wearal. Iie (Destro cog occccnbecosugouennoe 16,803 17,807 568 3,516
WebbsijamesiE-. Fellowship (Designated)) 5... os s.ee. =e ee 926,005 873,049 27,851 49,558
Subtotals Sree sn cross eae sens Settee eee ne ope calla is 71,454,637 76,895,417 2,386,549 302,391
‘Toeall Whaveectinrciael IMUIOSS sc acovcenccdnso0sn5suobeade $ 76,570,417 $ 83,208,687 $2,679,095 $ 366,015

47
Table 13 Endowment Funds September 30, 1986 (Continued)

Principal Income
Book Market Net Unexpended
value value income balance
RESTRICTED PURPOSE—TRUE:
Arch ureyl] ATTICS yo apogee ac Cenicves wy eo Spstal ouciisns ay avsiicveveucueaeie oyshes cuca otrone $ 150,708 §$ 1955735) 6,244 $ 6,034
Bairderspencer Hull ert orbs tere terstencusie wens -scvelceeteia-aetcy areas neler caer 136,216 174,966 5,582 4,356
Barney Alice bikes Memorial eee armen eeeciceceettrcnicee 108,034 140,265 4,475 25,005
BatchelorsEmmialleresrrrcvatsee sccsicncce a ae ciemneaeueac ain oreretecioroe 132,805 145,088 4,628 82,743
Beauregard Catherines Memorial erie creer ici 167,973 196,007 6,253 63,869
Bergenn Gharlottea vig cnr cic ocas vnc cerca 9 ohn eo eneweus A chegs areas eda 14,327 14,486 462 1,179
Browne RolandhWaretere eer ene Picci one 113,504 134,522 4,291 17,895
(CantieldEredericksAosc serpin woe aie eeiee oer one oe cine US Geo) 215,655 6,880 124
Gaseyeihomasilincolmaaecw:-ececreuetersie cre cecor ier nacreicierere teers 53,811 62,840 2,005 6,154
@hamberlaimmErancesikea sen ieee einen ieee 106,074 IBZ? 4,393 22,642
CooperBunditoraleobiologysacmeeaeaeia ae aeeeiciaere ciate ere 114,179 118,221 3,700 -0-
DivisioniofMammalsiGurators bundy eee sees sire 7,758 8,765 279 5,095
Drakeiboundationsey, wepscts cociee eho ecw cin dad eeer ahem chown ae 698 669 776,927 24,678 118,964
Drouet, Francis and Louderback, Harold B. Fund .............. 229,937 233,890 7,461 21,627
Dykes @hranleswbequestepmcmriici re aiiiciereie ceeotie ecko keene 208,250 238,139 Vey) 12,075
Eickemeyernblorence brevOOntemn asi eici eis cia ieinie orice 40,935 S3n139 1,695 17,454
leaders, leakwmmal WAG): . gouanacosaccs BADeOn docs nDSounoeue 431,896 419,689 10,041 10,411
reer @harlesils) gr ser a ote ec URE P ROD «oR oe oi SSO) 17211 39,570,119 1,262,308 1,285,590
Grimm's SergeldNepeegey ares cy 01o-0rcs notes temer ie elevator vo Meera es caerratens) ate 120,701 123,976 32959) 21,891
(GroomABannick wae eee tee Po eee cilreke wo SIME, cidis reecfereter es 123,599 124,798 3,981 8,966
GnerenheimDaniellandiEl orencesa py y-raiiy-i ete eee 473,747 $06,305 16,151 42,397
Elamiileors| Ames! Seete w nste cs tere terate Rete etererey scot oki than whens epee 4,639 SAA 491 2,018
Henderson, Edward P., Meteorite Fund ...................... 1,415 1,741 56 $93
lewittae leanor Gane alm auch srr merersirary retort ieeer recreate 28,678 31,832 1,016 15999
Flewittssaran Coopereer imc ac oct tie © cle koe ee hence rete 169,519 187,893 5,994 12,503
Feil ery Wart iota ycteteerepen cise 3 cee etonsy = se See Mee aero eee, are 28,217 32,954 1,051 12,417
FlitchcockwAllberteSea sr cris ce en nse oe RE oe Sens 5,998 7,841 250 251
lod ekinsti und ater texts st acetate a nieec casa oc Rae torke er aievevats 117) 27/3} APD? 16,936 6,668
RindivekaryAllesrandiNanterc.gcieicciccre ete ate 3 corsa retorateteiene) uc crenets 205,599 243,682 7,774 8,152
Fl ShesNiIBLUGe scope haed-nokerci cheno leashes eee cust kee netore co seve 72,147 93,722 2,990 19,083
Johnson, Seward, Trust Fund for Oceanography ..............- 14,060,254 16,457,798 525,013 133,119
KellogeaReminetons Memorial seers cette tase ei 96,864 101,504 3,238 10,157
Kraan a dame wee bray, ec anne, crarecran eee aebe a csio eee eie 11,245 12,811 409 4,247
indSeyal essiciklan ways tos -icchace tite. oeniors pee eienmie hse 12,840 IS S75) 1,181 11,413
Masel IM a ry aitoes cate icc) clio heetrt exe oe. ccenerore te Mute eatotere ceils, she 73,926 96,026 3,063 34,545
Mullikensiin©OothoutsVemortalessaseriscio eee erin 845 936 30 81
MineraliEndowmients seit ences eects iree iesnorel oy erences es avalon s 384,923 431,256 135757; (15)
Mitchell William eAee AA. cris sro eerie ois sols Sr ototee ee oireiec 52,478 58,995 1,882 AES IN3)
Nalgon, JEckwanal Wnillien sok sacesceccdacbenuoosecosaeenuns 86,321 108,742 3,469 104
Retrocellisjosepha Memorial semen ior 27,997 36,424 1,162 29,030
Yara eVANe Valitroy ol gd Seige CaMerereeeree era ooo HOO cae oe Omen ac 89,780 102,560 4,706 10,226
RipleyassOillonand’Manyalsiving stoneesien-ittcencret anit sterer ete 108,225 116,586 3,612 -0-
RoeblingsRunds sapcicevs.cve ctor cienn oc ero Ore Reon eee ae 453,535 587,416 18,739 360
R@MbaS, Midian cial WEIN oo coesabdnaoohasoouanaseocnoas 891,426 1,068,010 33,780 8,770
SimSNGearpe Ws. 6.35 Sereiey aicdeccsuit ces Sie eeus ete en eRe 89,709 89,805 2,863 6,377
SprasueBun dicvorasrs avec aye ope cates ce roe Ice Wane em nee eo eee eal Sas ef Alls) 6,386,341 201,990 38,070
Sy ost elsai eal chet 01 cium eerie tcc tc cena teeOntent o-crdints ommenicrorc.a ac ocoere ie 67,805 87,656 2,796 23,630
Stesnmiitanrol dis Memorialanarmerien ae oOo 680,365 752,244 23,997 95,382
Stevenson, JohniAty My cologicalllsibrany ay -jaiser ere es 20,599 23,948 764 2220)
Stuart Many Elorner) Mineral) Fund aecaeiseecieeeine iene el S18 H123 304,273 7,280 7,514
Walcott, Charles D. and Mary Vaux, Research ...........-...- 575,569 677,470 DAR 85 8,700
Walcott Research Fund, Botanical Publications ................ 216,852 296,483 9.458 5,315
Williston, Samuel Wendell Diptera Research ................-. S89 16,058 492 2,299
HerbeeserancesiBrinckle-.,<.s,-744 Gere eRe ee 3,562 4,609 147 5,781
Subtotallig Actes net SC ee ee eee er 62,267,388 72,149,831 2,308,755 2,278,002

48
Table 13 Endowment Funds September 30, 1986 (Continued)

Principal Income
Book Market Net Unexpended
value value income balance
RESTRICTED PURPOSE—QUASI:
/A\mmemomn, Bahan JENS 5 oa9 p00 gceoC Eo uCa eGo GodobOemad 13,630 14,885 467 -0-
JAtw Pavia Tela ois a cc8 area ere Bie ond br nora cr ORO ect CRN Caen neon ates 78,885 81,109 2,587 4,903
Bacon, Wireinia Phy oononcoenanocebscoueeuooubenDOUOOC 368,323 407,089 12,986 37,964
taco, Gaoqaele co comouanconcduecogne coor oGo0e.0n co osm 635,168 704,596 22,477 76
‘Desnwrls, Palle sescoupscsgG6o cobo edu oom ods Gorman pon 50,048 57,394 1,800 -()-
(Cannan, GOmReleril.é an 6 ocho canine Os ROPE POE ROE OR oer eee nace 5,022 5,730 183 3,393
achenberes Georeelrsand) Caroling ees teres ere le laisse 17,856 21,417 683 2,884
Hanson, Martin Gustav and Caroline R. .................-..- 38,153 44,544 1,421 8,938
Hirshhorn Collections Endowment Fund ...............-++-+5 1,899,784 1,776,223 4,722 4,755
MMLELAOMIEMGOWIMENRE soni cece cele ae & clase sis fie ce cis el cee 12,700,618 14,636,762 466,921 202,444
ICIBP [Biaakouiaavernite pane -deciosere: o octD ue eek eR Saco aol toaes ie ere ie ieaeere 760,166 796,881 25,143 136
I@BEIGonsenvationvEndOWMeNnE...... eae se. sected «os ow esis es 169,736 175,425 5,580 13,049
Jolimeon, BIR. EMITOKS 5 socboccononoennsoocnoe Doon Be sabe BP225 32,981 1,052 5,434
ROCDMNLOLRISME raters Saat ectalel ee wie Js) sl csi che fisloen-behekeeuaiieyene 376,728 441,780 14,093 47,683
Loma, Avec le eine Beh os suncsognoposooopesanenaous 2,078 2,729 87 465
Miser, Catienime WalGa oaacococcccpsbnobeauncobudcoDECOe 86,717 101,250 3,230 20,700
INowes, Frank 1}. scondecpacdboussocanonc goo oom u os ooo Moe oC 4,276 5,103 163 3,094
IN@HES, Paulie INES socoasqooucnse0nnHboGcuO baa oGguaddoE SfpilSs) 38,220 E29 2,536
Pall, Commellia LINiqesi@n cogénccancuemonooanoosonoauoduuur Bik9387 37,378 LS 4,265
Ramsey, Adm. and Mrs. Dewitt Clinton™ ...................- 1,194,686 1,273,649 41,201 12,686
iRadnlouia.s Rina IMs! 4 5550 ncnon Bocmecdcoome Omar ooo 45,786 53,557 1,708 18,104
Roaalins Solar IResealn «caodeescoavoncsoesobeeeocoacaboe 102,060 115,148 3,673 13,304
Rweaki, Berend IM, (oes aves cceat eo cree ore cio prec oO rene ere RacEearee N73 BES 27 4,100 4,543
Sadamlliz, iLe@omainal Dn Seid os ce.odon Uo oem conde eat Ga cones oor 38,780 44,142 1,348 33) 1 /7/
Sofalalll., Adinenuary Wee Goo ae a 6 OO te a alone co treed mater cm eer ote DES ao22: DIP) fOS) 88,803 322,591
Smithsonian \PenGyeACCOUME | 3)<)ei slr enei sels © cetyeleelae ndils il 1,234,738 1,325,941 43,010 913
Simone, WAI soe acascovons pep apasogbnsmoSDU das docu. 43,030 50,326 1,605 4,123
Witherspoons Mhomas Aun MemlOrial transi sald cities areola) ti 553,371 645,746 20,600 52,998
Stilto talents Seer ten hay ie scke earns) eos Gretel eikueaen 2 suspeleyenentus 23,159,207 25,802,261 772,054 825,158
‘Trovall Regadiewacl MinANOSS cabconadesosabesoo05s050Dub0D0 $ 85,426,595 $ 97,952,092 $3,080,809 $3,103,160
TONPNL JSINIDOMAMESINIEIRIOINIDS Ss conacousuncoeuccddovcGds $161,997,012  $181,160,780 $5,759,904** $3,469,175

*Invested all or in part in U.S. Treasury or other nonpooled investments.

**Total Return Income Payout; does not include $265,089 of interest income for investment of unexpended income balances.

49
Coopers & Lybrand
Certified Public Accountants

To the Board of Regents
Smithsonian Institution

We have examined the statement of financial condition of
the Smithsonian Institution as of September 30, 1986, and
the related statement of financial activity for the year then
ended. Our examination was made in accordance with
generally accepted auditing standards and with generally
accepted governmental auditing standards and, accord-
ingly, included such tests of the accounting records and
such other auditing procedures as we considered necessary
in the circumstances. We previously examined and
reported upon the financial statements of the Smithsonian
Institution for the year ended September 30, 1985, totals of
which are included in the accompanying financial state-
ments for comparative purposes only.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above,
present fairly the financial position of the Smithsonian
Institution as of September 30, 1986, and the results of its
operations and changes in its fund balances for the year
then ended, in conformity with generally accepted
accounting principles applied on a basis consistent with
that of the preceding year.

Coopers & Lybrand
1800 M Street, N. W.

Washington, D.C. 20036
December 23, 1986

5O
Smithsonian Institution Statement of Financial Condition

September 30, 1986 (with comparative totals for September 30, 1985)

(thousands of dollars)

Total
Trust Federal all Totals
funds funds funds 1985
ASSETS:
Rundibalances withiW-on ineasury,and(cashiomhand =. -.-) 4-20 +4-5s000ee $ 744 $ 78,689 $ 79,433 $ 75,365
Iniestentsl (NOtesw cand oil erm inotnsimiciriniaci sass ee ce eon 220,190 = 220,190 192,602
REGORVAD ICSI UINOLER Perrott chris coe tatets ilsccra a eee GaN ie cree tem ie eee IIHS} 8,016 43,969 48,301
AGWAMES DENS NES (INGE), Sotaacanonoosmavceadbo deuce apemouad ou Slo 431 15,174 15,605 16,567
MerchandisennyentonyaINOte tl) ae. amiacimccier ce seen cranes ee ateeeeaee 11,140 = 11,140 11,340
Meatenialsandisuppliesimventory, (NOten))imear ace cic cie caer iene ee —_— 1,421 1,421 1,340
Brepaldedetencediexpense and othem (Noted) eee seme acne ene cece cer 13,952 = 13,952 13,400
Rroperhyencequipment INotesmsand!//)iere am einai eis aera 45,418 212,679 258,097 235,689
sOtaleaSSCES ae iene ie ye, elke ay NARS cae by Set tees i. re i eee eo $327,828 $315,979 $643,807 $594,604
LIABILITIES:
Accounts payable and accrued expenses, including interfund payable of
S17 COD WOO). oct ccd 0,5 Fen teaO ake tanta oc DneS-oieoa te arcadia eta chee peer ooo tes SlCr oeke 39,443 16,444 55,887 50,307
Deposits held in custody for other organizations (Note 2) ...............4- 4,071 28 4,099 3.937
Neeniecrannualileave (INOtetl))) gains c4 ceils voile sicrerneiebs: cone se eevoroere 1,966 7,770 9.736 ) 3222
Wetenredmreventies (IN Otenll) tary che teers tohepon son. ease ersten cue revere ent nets ievevans neve never aete 30,999 — 30,999 28,133
Trova RATES 5-6 son 8.6 oa Oo aa o OR conn 6.4 Goma a mene 6 76,479 24,242 100,721 91,699
Windelineredrondensi(INOtert) iis meets etree coe et eon crise telomere com taal scenes Aen core —_— 59,368 59,368 57,425
FUND BALANCES (Note 1):
Trust Funds:
Current:
Umeginiveneal eencirall PUMNOSS yccocpoceouenogonsdcguasd0oubBsGcooE 2,044 _ 2,044 51138
SHeEcialipuEpOSe Marra vom waver tenders Gh ante ate eaten enacn Seas make Seekers 24,645 -- 24,645 23,832
INEStRICLEC PER ER ere ee i cic nnn tease ta teeter een 9,656 — 9.656 9,684
lEm@lonmnneinte 2raal Gtaallare tors (IN 4) se nscencoscncscccnacunecaonur 161,997 — 161,997 137,444
Perec? Mv SIN IGYiS: ZW ees ear ctm ecrnc Oim ichctorce OAERE DTA) Gigi REP ROR TRILL ro ae earn 53,007 — 53,007 51,160
sotalltnustatundibalancest merase terete A ceeua sere: sic east eee 251,349 — 251,349 227,258
Federal Funds:
Oparaninnys fumes —nesmmeneel (INGE) sco cocacccccscepcarocunnu0deK. — 2,316 2,316 177
(CousthichonUndSmred are paren eee ee orm tn ane —_— 15,952 S952 15,349
Capitals oSic.acco.ce clots © food elo 20.08 oro Gro bit a a orcner cele eeeRarceteaaeD = 214,101 214,101 202,696
Toei eckerall nome! lOAAMESS poor acoooscoaonpacecannocogn HE ote = 232,369 232,369 218,222
Motalifiindibalancest eee near eeeeer eee ee ictrnieoaeie tec cn ar: 251,349 232,369 483,718 445,480
Total liabilities, undelivered orders and fund balances.................00005 $327,828 $315,979 $643,807 $594,604

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements.
Smithsonian Institution Statement of Financial Activity for the year ended September 30, 1986
(with comparative totals for the year ended September 30, 1985) (thousands of dollars)

Trust funds

Totals, Endowment Totals,
trust Current and similar Plant federal
funds funds funds funds funds

REVENUE AND OTHER
ADDITIONS:
APPLOPLatlOUSHme ne Memeo eine $ — $ _ $ — $ _ $191,383
Auxiliary activities revenue......... 149,313 149,313 — a —_—
Government grants and contracts .... 15,534 15,534 — — =
InveEstinentlMmcOnie) jepettieieieeienelsiaie 11,988 10,307 — 1,681 —
Net gain on sale of securities and
PLOPELLY’ Jerse soe: = sek eacuetoe cist © 15,478 - 15,282 196 —_
Gifts, bequests, and foundation
OTANTS HAP ies Pe le Gah 11,707 10,507 436 764 —_
Wdditionsjtolplantieeis- eee erie ES 62) = — 11,562 28,976
Rentals, fees, commissions,
avaal Gunes as See o we ae One ae 5,854 5,854 = = 1,627
Total revenue and other additions... . 221,436 191,515 15,718 14,203 221,986
EXPENDITURES AND OTHER
DEDUCTIONS:
Research, educational, and collection
acquisition expenditures (Note 9) . . 45,305 45,305 _ a 109,162
Administrative expenditures ........ 12,005 12,005 — — 12,614
Facilities services expenditures ...... 2,211 2,211 — — 49,289
Auxiliary activities expenditures ..... 125,381 125,381 — — —
Acquisition of plant and other ...... 11,447 —_— — 11,447 19,018
Property use and retirements
(INO tein) Metra cnecsinteeaoreysvcwe aocart ieee 829 — — 829 Sal
Retirement of and interest on
indebtedness’ kivu.ct ee oe ae 167 _— — 167 —
Total expenditures and
other deductions ...... 197,345 184,902 — 12,443 207,654
Excess of revenue and
other additions over
expenditures and other
deductions =. .sss. 44> 24,091 6,613 15,718 1,760 14,332
TRANSFERS AMONG FUNDS—
ADDITIONS (DEDUCTIONS) (Note 10)
eS _ (892?) ___ 8,835 87 =
Net increase for the year . . 24,091 (2,309) 24,553 1,847 14,332
Returnmed!toUrSaineasunya cern — — — — (185)
Fund balances at beginning of year .. . 227,258 38,654 137,444 51,160 218,222
Fund balances at end of year (Note 8) . $251,349 $ 36,345 $161,997 $53,007 $232,369

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements.
Federal funds

Operating
funds

$171,762

1,627
173,389

109,162
12,614
49,289

171,065

2,324

Totals,

Construction Capital all Totals,
funds funds funds 1985
$19,621 $ = $191,383 $191,467

“= _— 149,313 138,010

— _ 15,534 15,652

— — 11,988 12,658

— — 15,478 15,745

— _— 11,707 9,742

— 28,976 40,538 43,064

os _— 7,481 3,419
19,621 28,976 443,422 429,757
— _— 154,467 149,677

_ 24,619 23,104

— -- 51,500 48,615

— - 125,381 114,270
19,018 -- 30,465 DSR ITA
— ASA 18,400 7S)

— -- 167 20
19,018 WAST 404,999 378,812
603 11,405 38,423 50,945
603 11,405 38,423 50,945
= — (185) (173)
15,349 202,696 445,480 394,708

$15,952 $214,101 $483,718

$445,480

Smithsonian Institution Notes to Financial Statements
1. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
Basis of Presentation

These financial statements do not include the accounts of
the National Gallery of Art, the John F. Kennedy Center
for the Performing Arts or the Woodrow Wilson Interna-
tional Center for Scholars, which were established by Con-
gress within the Smithsonian Institution (the Institution)
but are administered under separate boards of trustees.

The financial statements of the Institution have been
combined for this presentation to show both federal
appropriations and trust funds. So-called federal funds
reflect the receipt and expenditures of monies obtained
from congressional appropriations. The accounts of the
federal funds have been prepared on the obligation basis of
accounting, which is in accordance with accounting princi-
ples prescribed by the Comptroller General of the United
States as set forth in the Policy and Procedures Manual for
Guidance of Federal Agencies. The obligation basis of
accounting differs in some respects from generally
accepted accounting principles. Under this method of
accounting, approximately $44,198,000 of commitments
of the operating fund, such as purchase orders and con-
tracts, have been recognized as expenditures, and the
related obligations have been reported on the balance sheet
at September 30, 1986 even though the goods and services
have not been received as of the balance sheet date.
Approximately $15,454,000 of these commitments are for
internal storage facilities and equipment at the Museum
Support Center. In addition, construction fund commit-
ments for other projects, principally the Quadrangle,
amounted to approximately $15,171,000 at September 30,
1986.

The trust funds reflect the receipt and expenditure of
funds obtained from private sources, federal grants and
contracts, investment income and certain business activi-
ties related to the operations of the Institution. The finan-
cial statements with respect to trust funds have been pre-
pared on the accrual basis.

Fund Accounting

To ensure observance of the limitations and restrictions
placed on the use of resources available to the Institution,
accounts are maintained in accordance with the principles
of fund accounting. This procedure classifies resources for
control, accounting and reporting purposes into distinct
funds established according to their appropriation, nature

54

and purposes. Separate accounts are maintained for each
fund; however, in the accompanying financial statements,
funds that have similar characteristics have been combined
into fund groups. Accordingly, all financial transactions
have been recorded and reported by fund group.

The assets, liabilities and fund balances of the Institu-
tion are self-balancing as follows:

Federal operating funds represent the portion of expend-
able funds available for support of Institution operations.

Federal construction funds represent that portion of
expendable funds available for building and facility con-
struction, restoration, renovation and repair. Separate
subfund groups are maintained for each appropriation—
Construction and Improvements, National Zoological
Park, Restoration and Renovation of Buildings, Museum
Support Center and the Center for African, Near Eastern,
and Asian Cultures (Quadrangle).

Federal capital funds represent the value of those assets
of the Institution acquired with federal funds plus nonex-
pendable property transfers from government agencies.

Trust current funds, which include unrestricted and
restricted resources, represent the portion of expendable
funds that is available for support of Institution opera-
tions. Amounts restricted by the donor for specific pur-
poses are segregated from other current funds.

Trust endowment and similar funds include funds that
are subject to restrictions of gift instruments requiring in
perpetuity that the principal be invested and the income
only be used. Also classified as endowment and similar
funds are gifts which allow the expenditure of principal
but only under certain specified conditions. Quasi-
endowment funds are funds established by the governing
board for the same purposes as endowment funds; how-
ever, any portion of such funds may be expended.
Restricted quasi-endowment funds represent gifts for
restricted purposes where there is no stipulation that the
principal be maintained in perpetuity or for a period of
time, but the governing board has elected to invest the
principal and expend only the income for the purpose stip-
ulated by the donor.

Trust plant funds represent resources restricted for
future plant acquisitions and funds expended for plant.
Investments

All gains and losses arising from the sale, collection or
other disposition of investments and property are
accounted for in the fund in which the related assets are
recorded. Income from investments is accounted for in a
similar manner, except for income derived from invest-
ments of endowment and similar funds, which is
accounted for in the fund to which it is restricted or, if
unrestricted, as revenue in unrestricted current funds.
Gains and losses on the sale of investments are recognized
on the settlement date basis using the specific identification
method, whereby the cost of the specific security adjusted
by any related discount or premium amortization is the
basis for recognition of the gain or loss.

Inventory

Inventories are carried at the lower of cost or market. Cost
is determined using the first-in, first-out (FIFO) method,
retail cost method (for those inventories held for resale) or
net realizable value.

Deferred Revenue and Expense

Revenue from subscriptions to Smithsonian magazine 1s
recorded as income over the period of the related subscrip-
tion, which is one year. Costs related to obtaining sub-
scriptions to Smithsonian magazine are charged against
income over the period of the subscription.

The Institution recognizes revenue and charges expenses
of other auxiliary activities during the period in which the
activity is conducted.

Works of Art, Living or Other Specimens

The Institution acquires its collections, which include
works of art, library books, photographic archives,
objects and specimens, through purchase with federal or
private funds or by donation. In accordance with policies
generally followed by museums, no value is assigned to the
collections on the statement of financial condition. Pur-
chases for the collections are expensed currently.

Property and Equipment

Nonexpendable equipment purchased with federal funds is
recorded at cost and is depreciated on a straight-line basis
over a period of to years. Equipment purchased with trust
funds for use by nonincome-producing activities is treated
as a deduction of the current fund and a capitalized cost of
the plant fund. Depreciation on equipment capitalized in
the plant fund is recorded on a straight-line basis over the

estimated useful life of 3 to 10 years (see Note 7). Capital
improvements and equipment purchased with trust funds
and utilized in income-producing activities are capitalized
in the current unrestricted fund at cost and are depreciated
on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives of 3
to Io years.

Buildings and other structures, additions to buildings
and fixed equipment purchased with federal funds are
recorded in the capital funds at cost and depreciated on a
straight-line basis over a period of 30 years. Costs associ-
ated with renovating, restoring and improving structures
are depreciated over their useful lives of 15 years.

Certain lands occupied by the Institution’s buildings
were appropriated and reserved by Congress for the
Smithsonian and are not reflected in the accompanying
financial statements. Property and nonexpendable equip-
ment acquired through transfer from government agencies
are capitalized at the transfer price or at estimated
amounts, taking into consideration usefulness, condition
and market value.

Real estate (land and buildings) purchased with trust
funds is recorded at cost, to the extent that restricted or
unrestricted funds were expended therefor, or appraised
value at date of gift, except for gifts of certain islands in
the Chesapeake Bay and the Carnegie Mansion, which
have been recorded at nominal values. Costs of original
building structures and major additions are depreciated on
a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives of 30
years. Costs of renovating, restoring and improving struc-
tures are depreciated on a straight-line basis over their esti-
mated useful lives of 15 years. Depreciation is recorded in
the plant funds as a deduction to the investment in plant
(see Note 7).

Government Grants and Contracts

The Institution has a number of grants and contracts with
the U.S. Government, which primarily provide for cost
reimbursement to the Institution. Grant and contract reve-
nue is recognized as expenditures are incurred within trust
funds.

Pledges

The Institution records significant pledges that are sup-
ported by letters signed by donors. Pledges are recorded at
net realizable value as a receivable and as deferred revenue
on the Statement of Financial Condition. Revenue from
pledges is recognized in the year the pledge funds are col-
lected.

wn
al
Contributed Services

A substantial number of unpaid volunteers have made sig-
nificant contributions of their time in the furtherance of
the Institution’s programs. The value of this contributed
time is not reflected in these statements in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles.

Annual Leave

The Institution’s civil service employees earn annual leave
in accordance with federal law and regulations. However,
only the cost of leave taken as salaries is funded and
recorded as an expense. The cost of unused annual leave at
year-end is reflected in the accompanying financial state-
ments as an asset and accrued liability of the federal funds
capital account.

Annual leave is recorded for trust employees in the trust
fund as earned.

2. Related Activities

The Institution provides fiscal and administrative services
to several separately incorporated organizations in which
certain officials of the Institution serve on the governing
boards. The amounts paid to the Institution by these orga-
nizations for the aforementioned services, together with
rent for Institution facilities occupied, totaled approxi-
mately $367,000 ($295,000 for the trust funds and
$72,000 for the federal funds) for the year ended Septem-
ber 30, 1986. Deposits held in custody for these organiza-
tions were approximately $4,071,000 as of September 30,
1986.

The following summarizes the approximate expendi-
tures of these organizations for the fiscal year ended Sep-
tember 30, 1986 as reflected in their individual financial
statements, which are not included in the accompanying
financial statements of the Institution:

Visions Foundation, Inc. $1,452,000
Reading Is Fundamental, Inc. $6,780,000
Woodrow Wilson International Center

for Scholars:

Trust funds $5,121,000

Federal appropriations $3,197,000

56

3. Investments

Investments are recorded at cost on a settlement date
basis, if purchased, or estimated fair market value at date
of acquisition, if acquired by gift. At September 30, 1986,
investments were composed of the following:

Carrying Market
value value
($000s) ($000s)
Current funds:
Certificates of deposit and
repurchase agreement $ 16,816 $ 16,816
Commercial paper 1,980 2,000
U.S. Government and quasi-
government obligations 39,844 41,449
Corporate bonds 75 75
Common stock 13 6
Preferred stock 97 93
58,825 60,439
Endowment and similar funds:
Money market account 32,992 B2992
Deposit with U.S. Treasury 1,080 1,080
U.S. Government and quasi-
government obligations 135335) 13,886
Corporate bonds 1,079 1,059
Common stock 110,967 129,845
Preferred stock 1,760 1,515
161,213 180,377
Plant funds:
U.S. Government and quasi-
government obligations 27 29
Common stock IDS 25
152 154
$220,190 $240,970

Since October 1, 1982, the deposit with the U.S. Trea-
sury has been invested in U.S. Government securities at a
variable yield based on market rates.

Substantially all the investments of the endowment and
similar funds are pooled on a market value basis (consoli-
dated fund) with each individual fund subscribing to or
disposing of units on the basis of the per unit market value
at the beginning of the month within which the transaction
takes place. The unit value as of September 30, 1986 was
$259.24; 299,239 units were owned by endowment, and
394,280 units were owned by quasi-endowment at Septem-
ber 30, 1986.

The following tabulation summarizes changes in rela-
tionships between cost and market values of the pooled
investments (excludes nonpooled investments such as the
deposit with the U.S. Treasury, land held for investment
and receivables of the endowment fund):

Market
($000s) value

Market Cost
$179,790 $160,626

Difference per unit
$19,164 $259.24

End of year
Beginning of

year $147,300 $136,156
Increase in

unrealized

net gain

for the

year 8,020 —=
Realized net

gain for

the year

11,144 223.18

SE 282, --
$23,302 $ 36.06

Net change

4. Endowment and Similar Funds

The fund balances for the endowment and similar funds at
September 30, 1986 are summarized as follows:

($000s)
Endowment funds, income available for:
Restricted purposes $ 62,267
Unrestricted purposes SG
67,383
Quasi-endowment funds, principal and
income available for:
Restricted purposes ADSI S)
Unrestricted purposes 71,455
94,614
Total endowment and similar funds $161,997

The Institution utilizes the “total return” approach to
investment management of endowment funds and quasi-
endowment funds. Under this approach, the total invest-

ment return is considered to include realized and unreal-
ized gains and losses in addition to interest and dividends.
An amount of principal equal to the difference between
interest and dividends earned during the year and the
amount computed under the total return formula is trans-
ferred to or from the current funds.

In applying this approach, it is the Institution’s policy to
provide, as being available for current expenditures, an
amount taking into consideration such factors as, but not
limited to: (1) 41/2% of the five-year average of the market
value of each fund (adjusted for gifts and transfers during
this period), unless a higher percentage is approved by the
Regents, (2) current dividend and interest yield, (3) sup-
port needs for bureaus and scientists, and (4) inflationary
factors as measured by the Consumer Price Index; how-
ever, where the market value of the assets of any endow-
ment fund is less than 110% of the historic dollar value
(value of gifts at date of donation), the amount provided is
limited to only interest and dividends received.

The total return factor for 1986 was 5% or $8.27 per
unit to all participating funds. The total return applied for
1986 was $3,060,000 to Restricted Funds and $2,529,000
to Unrestricted Funds.

5. Receivables

Receivables at September 30, 1986 included the following:

($000s)
Federal funds
Amount to be provided for accrued annual
leave Se75770
Service fees and charges 246
8,016
Trust funds
Accounts receivable, auxiliary activities, net 12,480
Interfund receivables due from current funds:
Endowment and similar funds 500
Plant funds 17,109
Interest and dividends receivable 1,926
Unbilled costs and fees from grants and
contracts AST
Pledges 1,365
Other 46
35.953
Total, all funds

$43,969

57
6. Advance Payments

Advance payments represent prepayments made to gov-
ernment agencies, educational institutions, firms and indi-
viduals for services to be rendered or property or materials
to be furnished.

As of September 30, 1986, the Institution had advances
outstanding to the U.S. Government of approximately
$12,528,000, principally for construction services to be
completed in future fiscal years. The Institution at that
date also had advances outstanding to educational institu-
tions amounting to approximately $1,959,000, principally
under the Special Foreign Currency Program.

7. Property and Equipment

At September 30, 1986, property and equipment were com-
prised of the following:

($000s) —_($000s)
Federal
Capital funds
Property $308,960
Equipment 34,260
Less accumulated
depreciation (130,541)
Total, federal funds $212,679
Trust
Current funds
Capital improvements Se e202
Equipment 8,096
Leasehold improvements 893
Less accumulated
depreciation and
amortization (7,265)
6,926
Endowment and similar funds
Land 239
Plant funds
Land and buildings $ 41,962
Equipment 3,983
Less accumulated depreciation (7,692)
395253
Total, trust funds 45,418
Total, all funds $258,097

58

Included in the accumulated depreciation of the federal
capital funds is approximately $13,988,000 of the depreci-
ation expense for 1986.

Trust funds’ depreciation and amortization expense for
fiscal year 1986 for income-producing assets amounted to
approximately $1,925,000, which is included in auxiliary
activities expenditures in the current funds. Depreciation
of non-income-producing equipment and buildings for
1986 amounted to approximately $829,000.

The balance of the plant fund at September 30, 1986,
included approximately $14,754,000 of trust unexpended
plant funds.

8. Federal Operating Funds

The federal operating funds include appropriations for
salaries and expenses which are expended in the year
received. Also included are amounts received with the pro-
vision that such amounts can be expended over a period
greater than one year.

The federal operating funds for the year ended Septem-
ber 30, 1986, include the following:

Fund
Balance
_Additions ($000s) _ at
Appro- Sept. 30,
priations Other 1986
Salaries and Expenses $169,384 $ — $ —
Special Foreign Cur-
rency Program Ds) a= 1,354
U.S. India Fund (trans-
fers from Department
of State) -- 1,477 On,
Smithsonian Tropical
Research Institute -- 150 45
$171,762 S$15627 Ss2esilG

9. Collection Acquisitions

In keeping with accounting principles, the Institution
records the acquisition of collections as an expense in the
year of purchase. For fiscal year 1986, $7,000,000 was
charged to current funds for the acquisition of the Vever
Collection although payments are to be made over several
fiscal years.

10. Transfers among Funds

The following transfers among trust funds were made for
the year ended Septemer 30, 1986 in thousands of dollars:

Endow-
ment
and
similar Plant
Unrestricted Restricted funds funds

Current funds

Portion of
investment
yield appro-
priated
(Note 4) $ (398) $ (389) $ 787 $—

Income added
to endow-
ment
principal -- (159) 159 =

For plant
acquisition

For special
purposes

Endowment
released — 33 (33) —

Reclassified as
true endow-
ment oe (292) 29D. —

Appropriated
as quasi-
endowment

(50) = — 50

(65788))

Total non-
mandatory
transfers

Mandatory
transfers for
principal and

(6,148) (2737) S39 Sv

interest (37) — — 37
Total transfers
among funds $(6,185) $(2,737) $8,835 $87

11. Retirement Plans

The federal employees of the Institution are covered by the
Civil Service Retirement Program. Under this program,
the Institution withholds from the gross pay of each fed-
eral employee and remits to the Civil Service Retirement
and Disability Fund (the Fund) the amounts specified by

such program. The Institution contributes 7% of basic
annual salary to the Fund. The cost of the plan for the year
ended September 30, 1986 was approximately $6,462,000.

The Institution has a separate retirement plan for trust
employees. Under the plan, both the Institution and the
employee contribute stipulated percentages of salary,
which are used to purchase individual annuities, the rights
to which are immediately vested with the employee. The
cost of the plan for the year ended September 30, 1986 was
$3,531,000. It is the policy of the Institution to fund plan
costs accrued currently. There are no unfunded prior-
service costs under the plan.

12. Income Taxes

The Institution is exempt from income taxation under the
provisions of Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue
Code. Organizations described in that section are taxable
only on their unrelated business income, which for the
Institution was immaterial in 1986.

It is the opinion of the Institution that it is also exempt
from taxation as an instrumentality of the United States as
defined in Section so1(c)(1) of the Code. Organizations
described in that section are exempt from all income taxa-
tion. The Institution has not as yet formally sought such
dual status.

13. Subsequent Event

On December 17, 1986, the Institution entered into a note
agreement with the Riggs National Bank of Washington,
D.C., for $11,000,000. Proceeds from the note will be
used to fund construction of a restaurant addition at the
National Air and Space Museum. The note bears interest
at a rate of 9% per annum and is payable in quarterly
installments of interest only commencing on December 31,
1986, and principal and interest commencing on Septem-
ber 30, 1991, and ending on June 30, 1998.

59
be

aa

‘ ican bially

ae

.

Bie te a
oo nate

*
RESEARCH

David Challinor, Assistant Secretary for Research

61
Joseph Henry Papers

The Joseph Henry Papers project has published five of
its contemplated fifteen volumes, dealing with Joseph
Henry’s early years and life at Albany and Princeton.
Work progressed during the past year on the sixth vol-
ume, 1844-46, covering Henry’s career at Princeton and
his selection as Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.

Dr. Nathan Reingold, editor of the Joseph Henry Pa-
pers since the inception of the project, left to become
senior historian at the National Museum of American
History. Dr. Marc Rothenberg, who had served as asso-
ciate editor, was promoted to editor.

An important development for the project was the in-
stallation of office automation equipment. These com-
puters and word processors greatly facilitate the review

This detail of an entry from Joseph Henry’s “Record of Experi-
ments” is dated May 10, 1835. (Courtesy Smithsonian Archives)

Ws l.Tlenea
Pe a dope der PaO! La 4
pet bore weh tA We - bene

Pon fe. jrk : pre pba

.7
re Ope eee hers G- codlZ Ans Shieh
hg eorgh at 5 iis F FU.
/ {
Cou he  A ta Eling b cornell,
: y : | ey,
6.4 Gth atl that ates

il at \ fhe Fhe tae ty

} Dy Gets! oe Orn agrt th toms

= “le ppp SaaS) |
Qj ire

62

and revision of typescripts of documents, reduce errors,
and decrease the time needed for editing documents.

The project again sponsored its Nineteenth Century
Seminar Program, hosting presentations reflecting a
broad range of historical interests, including the history
of science and technology, anthropology, art, and Ameri-
can social and cultural history.

Henry Papers staff cooperated with other museums in
the preparation of exhibitions, including the National
Museum of Natural History’s major exhibition, Magnifi-
cent Voyagers: The U.S. Exploring Expedition,
1838-1842, which opened in November. Dr. Rothenberg,
together with Dr. Reingold, organized a symposium,
“Men of Daring, Triumphs of Exploration.’ in connec-
tion with the opening of the exhibition. Dr. Paul Theer-
man worked with the National Museum of American
History staff on an exhibition about Isaac Newton,
scheduled to open in 1987.

In addition, Henry Papers staff participated in several
professional conferences during the past year: the annual
meeting of the History of Science Society, the joint meet-
ing of the British Society for the History of Science and
the British Society for the Philosophy of Science, the
Sixth International Conference of Historical Geogra-
phers, and the Joseph Henry Science Symposium held at
Albany, New York.
National Zoological Park

Two of the four dama gazelles (Gazella dama) born at the National Zoo last spring and summer are shown with their parent.

The National Zoological Park (NZP) maintains a public
collection as well as research, maintenance, education,
and animal health facilities on 163 acres at Rock Creek
in Washington, D.C., and a Conservation and Research
Center (CRC) on a 3,000-acre site at Front Royal, Vir-
ginia. The National Zoo is dedicated to diverse goals:
public education about the welfare of animals, recreation
of visitors, advancement of biological and veterinary sci-
ences, and conservation. In cooperation with zoos
throughout the world, the National Zoo works to save

endangered species by using the most modern techniques
of reproductive biology and animal husbandry and by
promoting habitat preservation. Habitat preservation is
aided by NZP ecological studies throughout the world,
programs of basic research, and training programs for
Third World wildlife biologists.

In 1986, the National Zoo took the first steps towards
breaking down the unnatural separation of the world of
animals from the world of plants, inextricably interde-
pendent in the real world.
The first flamingo (Phoenicopterus ruber) egg was laid at the
National Zoo in May 1986.

Animal Exhibits

The public exhibits at Rock Creek are divided into the
mammalogy, ornithology, herpetology, and invertebrate
departments. Invertebrates constitute more than 99 per-
cent of the animal kingdom in the number of species but
were not represented at the National Zoo before Dr. Mi-
chael H. Robinson became director in 1984. He insti-
tuted an invertebrate exhibit under the leadership of
Jaren Horsley. This exhibit will open in 1987.

A total of 3,300 animals are in the Rock Creek exhib-
its. In 1986 Dr. Benjamin Beck, research primatologist,
was promoted to general curator, with over-all responsi-
bility for the entire animal collection. This appointment
represents a re-emphasis on the central importance of
exhibits to the role of a zoo. Each year a spate of births
testifies to the good health and excellent welfare of the
animals in the Zoo’s care. In 1986 there were 1,265 births
(Rock Creek and Front Royal combined). These included
a Masai giraffe—born in front of an audience of over

64

500 people in July—and young of such critically endan-
gered species as spectacled bears (twins), golden-headed
lion tamarins (the first such birth in the United States),
and golden lion tamarins. Springtime saw births of dama
and dorcas gazelles, blesbok, bongo, gnu, bobcat twins,
Geoffroy’s cats, white-cheeked gibbons, and many other
mammals. Birds, snakes, lizards, and frogs also bred
well, and there were hatchings of several species never
before bred at the National Zoo.

Species were added to the collection as founders in
new breeding programs. These included a pair of Malay-
sian tapirs, a male Indian rhino, a male Sumatran tiger,
and the New Zealand green gecko. Among other popu-
lar arrivals were two young gorillas on loan from the
Milwaukee and Brookfield (Chicago) zoos. Extensive
renovations to the filtration systems in the seal and sea
lion enclosures has produced crystal-clear water to the
delight of visitors. Further mixed species groupings have
been incorporated into existing exhibits to produce the
natural ecosystem flavor envisaged in the NZP biological
park concept. Crowned cranes are now exhibited with
the dama gazelles; humming birds and predatory fishes
were added to the crocodile exhibits; and birds are suc-
cessfully coexisting with a variety of mammals in the
Small Mammal House. New construction completed in
September transformed the beaver exhibit. The beavers
are now expected to fascinate visitors with their full rep-
ertory of tree-cutting and dam-building behaviors.

Exchanges with other zoos foster good international
relations. The National Zoo sent gifts of a pygmy hippo-
potamus to Sri Lanka, two red pandas to Japan, and
bushdogs to Panama. The NZP breeding group of fennec
foxes was strengthened by the gift of new stock from the
people of Israel. Senior and experienced National Zoo
staff actively helped develop new zoos overseas. Charles
Pickett, assistant curator of ornithology, and William
Xanten, collection manager, worked with the U.S. Fish
and Wildlife Service to aid the Pakistan government in
developing a national zoo and a master plan for the zoos
of that country.

Animal departments staff continue to carry out
research, contribute to education, and aid other zoos.
Dr. Edwin Gould commenced a study of the star-nosed
mole. Dr. Gould also developed a volunteer gardener
program in conjunction with the Friends of the National
Zoo and the NZP Office of Facilities Management. Vol-
unteer gardeners will beautify the Zoo and also add to
the flowering plants that are already attracting butterflies
back to the park. Dr. John Seidensticker, associate cura-
tor of mammals, studied the ecology of exhibit environ-
ments with the aim of enriching them. As a result of his
innovations, many animals are more active and interest-
ing to watch. Dr. Dale Marcellini, curator of reptiles,
visited New Zealand with keeper Trooper Walsh to col-
lect green geckos for a breeding colony. Keeper of rep-
tiles Cecilia Chang collected frogs in Panama and helped
establish breeding groups of Panamanian species.

Conservation

The Conservation and Research Center (CRC) is the
home of the Department of Conservation, which is dedi-
cated to saving rare and endangered species by propaga-
tion and research. Great successes in rare animal propa-
gation in 1986 included births of clouded leopards, Eld’s
deer, scimitar-horned oryx, sable antelope, marsupial
tiger quolls, and Przewalski’s horse. Among the birds,
further hatchings of endangered Guam rails and Micro-
nesian kingfishers testify to a successful breeding pro-
gram, and red-crowned cranes were hatched for the first
time ever at the National Zoo. The Center has continued
to be a leader in the Guam birds rescue project—thirteen
more rails were added to the breeding stock. In this con-
nection Dr. Scott Derrickson presented a paper at the
American Association of Zoological Parks and Aquari-
ums annual conference on “A Co-operative Breeding Pro-
gram for the Guam Rail (Rallus owstoni).”

The National Zoo makes a major contribution to
tropical conservation by organizing a Wildlife Conserva-
tion Training course, directed by Dr. Rasanayagam
Rudran and supported by a range of conservation
groups. This year one course was held at Front Royal
and was attended by students from eleven countries.
Other courses were held in Venezuela and Malaysia. On-
site courses and those held at Front Royal are rapidly
making the CRC known worldwide as a training center
for Third World biologists and wildlife specialists. Dr.
Christen Wemmer, assistant director for conservation and
captive breeding, presented a number of major papers at
scientific meetings. His subjects included tiger conserva-
tion, behavioral research at zoos, and the biology of
Reeves’ muntjac. “Man and Beast Revisited,” a major
international symposium jointly organized by the Na-
tional Zoo and the Office of Smithsonian Symposia and
Seminars, attracted scholars from a variety of disciplines
to discuss the relationship between animals and man, the
evolution of language, and advances in the study of
man’s ancestry.

National Zoo keeper Carolyn Bocian plays with new juvenile
gorillas (Gorilla g. gorilla) Kuja and Mandara in the Great Ape
House. The rambunctious youngsters are on loan to the National
Zoo from the Milwaukee Zoo and the Brookfield Zoo in
Chicago.

Education and Public Affairs

The Office of Education brings to a wide audience such
issues as the role of zoos in biological education and the
need for worldwide efforts in environmental and wildlife
conservation. It also emphasizes the urgent need for the
humane treatment of animals. In 1986, for the first time,
the Office of Education produced an interactive series of
exhibits, funded by the recently established Smithsonian
Institution Special Exhibits fund, called ZooArk. Six ex-
hibit modules located at six sites within the Zoo used
quizzes, computer games, vivid graphics, and a range of
artifacts to involve visitors in learning about the prob-
lems facing wildlife worldwide. The exhibits’ theme em-
phasizes that many species are “threatened in the wild;
protected in the zoo.”

During the year the Office of Education successfully
introduced The National Zoo News, a newspaper for
Washington, D.C., area teachers. The office also pro-
duced hands on outreach kits for lower elementary

65
school students. These kits cover reptiles, birds, and
mammals and parallel the work of the National Zoo’s
ZOOlab, HERPlab, and BIRDlab. In 1986 these learning
laboratories attracted many visitors including Mrs.
Hosni Mubarak, first lady of Egypt, and educators from
Japan, Australia, and India. Indian environmental educa-
tors have established a learning laboratory based on the
NZP model. The successful two-day symposium, “Re-
search and Conservation at the National Zoo, was at-
tended by high school teachers and students.

The Zoo’s Office of Public Affairs organized a public
symposium, “Wildlife Survivors in the Human Niche,”
which filled the Zoo’s 300-seat auditorium. A major
symposium on successful alternatives to the destruction
of tropical forests attracted national attention and will
lead to a major book. This symposium was organized
jointly by the Office of the Director and the Office of
Public Affairs, with Judith Gradwohl and Russell Green-
berg being principal organizers.

Sunset Serenades, a series of eight weekly concerts
proved to be a popular summer event for the third year.
These concerts were produced and managed by the OF
fice of Public Affairs, and introduced as many as 600
people per concert to the benefits of summer evenings at
the Zoo. The office continued to provide information
through the press, radio, and television about the activi-
ties and programs of the National Zoo, resulting in in-
creased coverage of achievements in research, conserva-
tion, captive breeding, and education.

Animal Health and Pathology

The Department of Animal Health (DAH) provides out-
standing health care for the animals at Rock Creek and
at Front Royal and conducts clinical research to advance
the care of wildlife and examine problems of reproduc-
tive physiology. The department also plays a major role
in the predoctoral and postdoctoral training of zoo veter-
inarians.

In 1986 unusual cases of health care included the treat-
ment of a gastric ulcer in a gorilla, root canal dentistry
on the canine tooth of a female lion, and support den-
tistry on the fractured tusk of an African elephant. Clini-
cal research involved study of antibiotic treatment of zoo
animals, further development of anesthetic and dental
techniques for nondomestic animals, and testing of ca-
nine distemper vaccination for red pandas.

The National Zoo through DAH, and DAH research
associate Dr. Stephen O’Brien of the National Cancer

66

Institute, established the Center for New Opportunities
in Animal Health Sciences. The Center was founded to
attract private money to support programs in reproduc-
tive physiology, applied medical research, and related
subjects for the successful propagation of nondomestic
animals. Dr. Lynn Dolnick heads the Center’s fund-
raising activity.

Staff from DAH collaborated with the NZP Office of
Facilities Management and architects in developing the
final plans for a new and adequate hospital at Rock
Creek to replace the outmoded 1969 building. This new
building will also house NZP’s Department of Pathology
(DOP) which provides diagnostic services as well as car-
rying Out extensive teaching and applied research.

Research at the Department of Pathology concentrates
on improving the health of zoo animals and developing
prophylactic measures against infections. Dr. Richard
Montali, head of Pathology, in conjunction with Dr.
Lyndsay Phillips of Animal Health has been investigating
techniques for identifying birds infected by avian tuber-
culosis. Dr. Don Nichols has been studying meningeal
worm infections in exotic wild animals. The studies are
of great importance since native deer are carriers of this
disease. In an attempt to provide control mechanisms
and prevent transmission from native to exotic animals
Mark Rowley, a graduate student working at Front
Royal, has studied snails and slugs that are intermediate
hosts of the meningeal worm. He found that in some
pastures 2.2 percent of all slugs and snails harbor the
infective stage of the worm. Dr. Montali, with the North
Carolina Zoo and a University of California facility in
La Jolla, California, studied a digestive tract disease of
colobus monkeys caused by gluten, a component of
wheat. The disease in monkeys has similarities to celiac
disease in humans.

Nonmedical Research

NZP’s Department of Zoological Research provides sci-
entific support for conservation, research, and education.
The department collaborates with a range of outside sci-
entific bodies including those of other Smithsonian bu-
reaus—currently in more than seventy-five projects. Re-
search ranges geographically from Sri Lanka to
Venezuela and Brazil. In 1986 research subjects included
continuing studies of golden lion tamarins, new studies
of golden-headed lion tamarins, research on giant panda
vocalizations, studies of the social behavior and move-
ment patterns of the endangered California sea otter, re-

search into genetic variation in mammals, studies of the
behavior of migratory birds, and nutritional studies on
the milk composition of a wide range of mammals.

Dr. Devra Kleiman, assistant director for research, was
elected a Fellow of the Animal Behavior Society and was
appointed field editor of the new journal Conservation
Biology. Dr. Kleiman continued to head the International
Golden Lion Tamarin Management Committee. Dr.
Eugene Morton was elected to the governing council of
the American Ornithologists Union. Dr. Katherine Ralls
visited China at the invitation of the Chinese government
to participate in a workshop on the management of en-
dangered marine mammals.

Dr. Morton, with his students and associates, contin-
ues to study complex communication and social behavior
in birds. His studies centered on purple martin social
systems, and sex differences in habitat preferences and
feeding activities in hooded warblers. Dr. Russell Green-
berg and Dr. Morton studied the development of forag-
ing and food-finding behavior in migratory birds. Dr.
Morton, in collaboration with Lisa Forman, started
studies on the genetics of mate choice; with Cathy
Blohowiak, at CRC, he studied mate choice in captive-
raised black ducks.

Dr. Olav Oftedal, NZP nutritionist, carried on collab-
orative studies of hooded and harp seal milk and growth
patterns, similar studies of black bears in Pennsylvania,
and red pandas at the National Zoo. Dr. Daryl Boness
continued collaborative studies on seals with Dr. Oftedal
and conducted a reconnaissance trip to Hawaiian monk
seal breeding grounds to determine the feasibility of a
comparative study on the mating system and parental
care of these seals. Dr. Rasanayagam Rudran continued
studies of a red howler monkey population in Venezuela.
In addition to the Front Royal Wildlife Training Course,
Dr. Rudran gave courses in Venezuela and Malaysia.

Mary Allen, Dr. Oftedal, and Dr. Dale Marcellini col-
laborated with scientists at the Smithsonian Tropical Re-
search Institute on a program to raise green iguanas as
an alternative food source for tropical peoples. Jonathan
Ballou continued research on the effects of inbreeding in
nondomestic animals. This work has important implica-
tions for the husbandry of small populations of endan-
gered species. Miles Roberts completed studies of tarsier
reproduction. Dr. Steven Thompson and Dr. Theodore
Grand collaborated on studies of the relationship be-
tween skeletal mass and metabolic rate. Dr. James Deitz
and Lou Ann Deitz continue to play a major role in the
golden lion tamarin reintroduction program in Brazil,
along with Dr. Devra Kleiman and Dr. Benjamin Beck.

i toe

Me . s (on S :
Ja AO Flan a | Se cee oe a Fl Oe ae eB

Mandara, a juvenile female gorilla (Gorilla g. gorilla), settles into
her new home in the Great Ape House at the National Zoo.

Construction and Support Services

George Calise, assistant director for support services, is
responsible for the Office of Facilities Management, the
Office of Construction Management, and the Office of
Police and Safety, as well as other smaller units. These
units provide the often unseen backbone of the entire
Zoo operation. In 1986 two major construction projects
were completed. The first section of Olmsted Walk was
completed on schedule. Two other sections of the walk
will complete the entire project. The new veterinary hos-
pital was completed at Front Royal. Also completed in
1986 was the extensive remodeling of the Reptile House
basement for the world’s first Invertebrate House. In late
1986 construction of a new gibbon exhibit started.

67

Friends of the National Zoo

Financial Report for the Period January 1-December 31, 1985

(in $1,000s)

Net increase/

Net (decrease) to

revenue Expense fund balance
Fund Balance @ 1/1/85 $1,675

Services

Membership $ 639 $ 524 AES)
Publications 148 160 (12)
Education* 103 766 (663)
Zoo Services? Sil 4,467° 824
Totals $6,181 Sono $ 264
$1,939!

Fund Balance @ 12/31/85

"Excludes services worth an estimated $598,500 contributed by FONZ volunteers.

Includes gift shops, parking services, and food services.

‘Includes $431,586 paid during this period to the Smithsonian Institution under contractual agreement.
4Net worth, including fixed assets, to be used for the benefit of educational and scientific work at the National Zoological Park.

The Office of Graphics and Exhibits collaborated in
the design of the renovated beaver exhibit, produced an
acclaimed labeling system that provides information
about more than roo trees in the park, and gave support
for a series of symposia and special events. The Facilities
Management team provided the skilled direction and
work force for most projects that transformed existing
exhibits in the NZP modernization program.

Park security and law enforcement remain at high lev-
els. The creation of a new position of deputy chief for
security has been an important step in insuring the main-
tenance of a pleasant ambience at large public events.
Captain George P. Day was appointed deputy chief for
security and Lieutenant James D. Jackson became com-
manding captain of police. The Office of Police and
Safety continues to improve safety consciousness among
Zoo employees.

Friends of the National Zoo

The Friends of the National Zoo (FONZ) in 1985 and
1986 enjoyed the most successful years ever providing
support of Zoo efforts in education, conservation, and

68

research. Volunteer contributions expanded substantially.
The third National ZooFari, an outdoor evening enter-
tainment and silent auction planned by FONZ directors,
produced a $45,000 addition to the Theodore H. Reed
Animal Acquisition Fund. Grant support of NZP-
directed wildlife studies reached $499,000 in 1986.
FONZ staff managed volunteer operations of a dozen
education and information services. Membership has
grown to 60,000, and the annual members’ ZooNight
was one of the most successful.

Services for visitors grew in 1986, with improvements
in food display, addition of snack and gift carts, training
and uniforming of traffic aides, and changes in manage-
ment procedures.

Financial information for calendar year 1985 is given
below. A percentage of revenues from Zoo Services 1s
paid to the Smithsonian for the benefit of the National
Zoo and is reported as income by the Institution.
Office of American Studies

The Office of American Studies continued its program in
graduate education throughout the year. The 1985 fall
semester seminar in Material Aspects of American Civili-
zation had as its theme “Material Aspects of Exploration
and Travel,” and was taught by the director of the pro-
gram, Dr. Wilcomb E. Washburn, and Professor Bernard
Mergen of George Washington University.

Other seminars during academic year 1985-86 included
“The Decorative Arts in America,’ taught by Barbara G.
Carson, and “Studies in American Art and History,”
taught by Lillian B. Miller. Individual graduate students
continued to pursue specialized research under the super-
vision of the director of the Office of American Studies.

The director of the Office of American Studies contin-
ued his research and publication activities. Among the
tasks brought to near completion was editorial work on
volume Iv, the Indian-White Relations volume of the
Handbook of North American Indians.

Office of Fellowships and
Grants

The Office of Fellowships and Grants continues to serve
as a link between the Institution and scholars throughout
the world. The office encourages research by persons
from universities, museums and research organizations in
the fields of art, history, and science. It brings scientists
and scholars to all parts of the Smithsonian to utilize the
unique resources available, as well as to interact with
professional staff. At present, a number of research sup-
port programs are developed and managed by the office
to assist visiting students and scholars. These programs
provide opportunities for research to be conducted at
Smithsonian facilities in conjunction with staff members.
Residential appointments are offered at the undergradu-
ate, graduate, and professional levels.

Academic programs at the Smithsonian are an impor-
tant complement to those offered at universities. The
national collections and the curators who study them are
unparalleled resources that are not available anywhere
else and are essential to scholarly research. At the
Smithsonian, historical and anthropological objects, orig-
inal works of art, natural history specimens, living
plants, animals, and entire ecosystems are available for
study.

The Office of Fellowships and Grants administered a
variety of academic appointments in 1986. The program
of Smithsonian Research Fellowships, begun in 196s, of-
fered eighty predoctoral, postdoctoral, and senior post-
doctoral fellowships this year. Sixteen of these fellow-
ships were awarded to international applicants from ten
countries. These appointees pursue independent research
projects under the guidance of staff advisors, usually for
periods of six months to one year in residence at one of
the Institution’s bureaus or field sites.

Topics of study for Smithsonian fellows included: the
migration and employment transition of African-
American women, 1890-1930; the patterns of evolution
in herbivorous mammal-like reptiles from the Beaufort
Group (Permo-Triassic) of southern Africa; mechanics,
mathematics, and machines in the culture of the Renais-
sance; man and nature in Winslow Homer’s Adirondack
pictures; Tarahumara Indian ethnoarchaeology, cooking
pots, and grinding stones; and kinetics and ecology of
flight in butterflies.

Twenty-one graduate students, eight of whom are for-
eign and represent seven countries, were offered fellow-
ships for ten-week periods during 1986. The participants
are usually junior graduate students beginning to explore
avenues that develop into dissertation research. This year
some of these fellows studied the introduction of modern
German art into New York City, 1905-39, and its recep-

69
tion and influence; the minerology and petrology of me-
teorites; the incidence of blood and intestinal parasitism
in an insular avifauna; technology, gender, and econom-
ics in computer programming; and differences in
salamander species diversity between disturbed and un-
disturbed habitats.

In addition to the general program funded through the
Office of Fellowships and Grants, competitions for fel-
lowships are also held for specific awards. At the Na-
tional Air and Space Museum, the recipients of the
A. Verville Fellowship, the International Fellowship, the
Martin Marietta Chair in Space History, and the Charles
A. Lindbergh Professor of Aerospace History will be in
residence.

In 1986 three fellowships were awarded through the
Jessie Smith Noyes Foundation to Latin American stu-
dents to conduct research using the facilities at the
Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute. Sonia Ortega
was awarded a postdoctoral fellowship to conduct re-
search on the distribution and abundance of rocky inter-
tidal organisms on the Caribbean coast of Panama.
Guadalupe Williams-Linera, a predoctoral student at the
University of Florida, will be in residence studying the
development of tropical-edge vegetation and forest struc-
ture; and Gonzalo Castro, a predoctoral student at the
University of Pennsylvania, will conduct research on the
latitudinal gradient in the daily energy expenditure of the
sanderling (Calibris alba).

The Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory awarded
four postdoctoral and three predoctoral fellowships.
Some of the topics of study included: planet forming
processes in the solar nebula, the large scale distribution
of galaxies, and theoretical models for physical condi-
tions in the atmospheres of early time type II
supernovae.

A number of senior fellowships continued to be of-
fered at the Institution. Smithsonian Institution Regents
Fellows in residence this year include Richard Bushman,
professor of history at the University of Delaware, who
spent eight months at the National Museum of American
History studying early American material culture. In resi-
dence at the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory was
Frank Wilczek, professor of astrophysics at the Univer-
sity of California, Santa Barbara and member of the In-
stitute for Theoretical Physics. Sidney Mintz, professor
in the Department of Anthropology at Johns Hopkins
University, will be in residence at the National Museum
of Natural History conducting research on sugar con-
sumption in the Americas.

79

To honor Regent Emeritus James E. Webb, the Institu-
tion established a fellowship program in his name de-
signed to promote excellence in the management of cul-
tural and scientific nonprofit organizations. Six awards
were offered in 1986. Webb Fellows are appointed for
two years and become members of the Webb Fellows
Society. In 1986 two luncheon meetings of the society
were held at which several senior staff were included to
discuss the shape and administration of the Webb Fel-
lowship Program and the Institution.

In 1984, the Smithsonian received a three-year grant
from the Rockefeller Foundation Residency Program in
the Humanities for postdoctoral fellowships at the Na-
tional Museum of African Art and the Center for Asian
Art. The grant supports research in residence at the mu-
seums in the areas of African art history and anthropol-
ogy, especially material culture, and in Asian art history
for research in the collections on topics that may initiate
scholarly symposia, exhibitions, and other major mu-
seum activities. The recipient at the National Museum of
African Art, Christraud Geary, from Boston University,
will study historical photographs as sources for research
on African art history and history. Wheeler Thackston,
from Harvard University, is the recipient at the Center
for Asian Art and will study Persian sources relating to
the calligraphers, artists, and artisans of the Timurid
period.

During 1986 bureaus continued to offer support for
visiting scientists and scholars in cooperation with the
Office of Fellowships and Grants. These awards made
possible visits to the Smithsonian by thirty-six persons.
The office also expanded the Short Term Visitor Pro-
gram. In 1986, 124 persons came to the Institution to
conduct research, study collections, and collaborate and
confer with professional staff. Of these 124 people
funded through the Short Term Visitor Program, fifty-
nine were international, representing thirty-one foreign
countries. In 1986 the office provided funding for twelve
workshops designed to bring scholars together from a
variety of fields to discuss subjects of common or com-
plementary interest. Topics for these workshops
included: American labor history, tropical forest conser-
vation, and human skeletal paleopathology.

The expanded role of internships in the academic com-
munity continues to be reflected by support for interns
within the Institution. The National Air and Space Mu-
seum funded six interns through the office this year. The
Cooper-Hewitt Museum again appointed four students
under the Sidney and Celia Siegel Fellowship fund. In-
ternships in environmental studies at the Smithsonian
Environmental Research Center also continued. The
Smith College-Smithsonian Program in American Studies
is now in its seventh year, and six students will partici-
pate in a seminar course and conduct research projects
under the direction of staff members through this pro-
gram. The Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden
continued its internship program with two interns in res-
idence. In 1986 the National Museum of American art
provided support for four interns. The Office of Elemen-
tary and Secondary Education’s high school internship
program continued in 1986. Forty interns were in resi-
dence for two five-week sessions to participate in a pro-
gram designed to broaden an existing academic interest
or to expand a vocational skill. Also, the Office of Fel-
lowships and Grants administered five appointments for
the Teacher Intern Program coordinated by the Office of
Elementary and Secondary Education. This program al-
lows high school teachers to learn more about their aca-
demic disciplines and assist museum programs for ado-
lescents in their home communities.

For the fifth year the office has offered academic op-
portunities aimed at increasing minority participation in
Smithsonian programs. The opportunities include fellow-
ships for minority faculty members and faculty from mi-
nority colleges and internships for minority undergradu-
ates and graduate students. Awards were made to
twenty-one interns who were placed at a variety of bu-
reaus and offices on the Mall; the Smithsonian Environ-
mental Research Center; the Cooper-Hewitt Museum;
and the Archives of American Art, Los Angeles Area
Center.

The Office of Fellowships and Grants also awarded
seven fellowships to faculty persons to conduct research
on subjects such as development of the synthetic dye in-
dustry in the United States, 1860-1920; the role of sports
in Afro-American community life during the Jim Crow
era, 1896 to 1954; and salinity tolerance assessments of
the mangrove ferns Acrostichum aureum and A. danae-
folium of Panama.

In 1986 the office continued the administration of the
Smithsonian’s cooperative education program. This stu-
dent employment program encourages minority graduate
students to work in professional and administrative posi-
tions at the Institution—separated by periods of study at
their university—and offers the potential for permanent
employment at the Smithsonian. ;

The Education Fellowship Program has also been initi-
ated to encourage minority participation in Smithsonian

fields of research. The fellowship offers support for
graduate education and research training to minority stu-
dents. This year the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observa-
tory and the National Museum of Natural History each
jointly supported with the office a student under this
program.

The American Indian Program provides opportunities
for North American Indians—including Native Ameri-
cans from the United States, Mexico, Canada, Hawai,
and U.S. Trust Territories—to pursue research utilizing
Smithsonian collections relating to their cultures. In
many cases these opportunities better enable them to in-
terpret and maintain collections in their native museums
and archives. The American Indian Program is designed
to support directed and independent research appoint-
ments. In 1986 six appointments were made. Some of the
topics studied included: the National Congress of Ameri-
can Indians and its involvement in American Indian
higher education; James Mooney—historic American In-
dian populations and epidemiology; and Chippewa musi-
cal heritage and reservation history.

The Visiting Associates Program was begun in 1986 to
increase minority participation in Smithsonian research
and study programs. University and college faculty and
administrators who have a commitment to expanding
minority participation in higher education visit the
Smithsonian to learn about ongoing research and
research opportunities. The associates will be asked to
serve as resource contacts and will disseminate Smithson-
ian research opportunities information to their respective
academic communities. In 1986 twelve appointments were
made for two one-week sessions in the spring and fall.
Smithsonian Astrophysical
Observatory

Several long-standing notions about the cosmos were
both challenged and confirmed in the past year by
Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory (SAO) scientists,
who produced a new map of large-scale structure in the
universe, revised the distance measurement to the center
of the Milky Way, identified the best candidate for a
black hole, and found new clues to the birth of stars.

Other SAO astronomers, using a radio interferometry
technique, found some ten newborn stars, each about
thirty times more massive than the Sun, in the core of a
dense cloud of molecular dust and gas near Sagittarius.
The results provide the best evidence to date that stars
form out of rapidly spinning dust clouds.

SAO scientists continued research in the space
sciences, analyzing data provided by satellite-, balloon-,
and rocket-borne telescopes. The observatory also main-
tained leadership in the development of new detectors
and instrumentation for astronomy.

The SAO research programs are carried out in close
cooperation with the Harvard College Observatory
through a joint venture known as the Center for Astro-
physics. The results of these studies are published as sci-
entific papers, typically numbering more than 200 per
year.

SAO also conducts regular programs of public infor-
mation and education, including popular lectures, Obser-
vatory Nights for the Public, in Cambridge, Massachu-
setts, and guided bus tours of the Whipple Observatory
in Arizona. Understandably, many of the public activities
of the past year concerned the return of Halley’s comet.

Atomic and Molecular Physics

Interpreting observations of astronomical objects requires
detailed information about the atomic and molecular
processes underlying their physical conditions. The ma-
jor objective of research in this division is to obtain
atomic and molecular data through laboratory and theo-
retical studies.

For example, oxygen molecules in the atmosphere are
broken down by ultraviolet sunlight absorption to create
the atoms needed for the formation of ozone in the
stratosphere—the atmospheric layer that screens out
much of the Sun’s harmful ultraviolet rays. For the first
time, accurate laboratory measurements were made of
this molecular absorption. Future measurements will
concentrate on those regions of the solar spectrum where
ultraviolet absorption by oxygen is small. Because this
type of solar radiation can penetrate deep into the strato-

72

sphere, it may alter the altitude profile of ozone and
other trace constituents thought responsible for the
“greenhouse effect” warming the Earth.

In addition to oxygen, many other molecules, both
simple and complex, survive in large concentrations in
the seemingly hostile interstellar space. However, some
of these molecules are thought to be destroyed in space
by ultraviolet light, which breaks them into fragments.
Understanding of this destructive process is especially
limited for radicals—molecules whose chemical reactions
are so rapid that it is extremely difficult to obtain suffi-
cient laboratory concentrations for study. Using theoreti-
cal approaches, SAO scientists showed that even the sim-
plest and most abundant radicals produce light in a large
variety of colors. These studies provide a framework for
understanding how complex interstellar molecules are
formed, undergo chemical changes, and are destroyed.

High Energy Astrophysics

Research concerns astronomical objects emitting a sub-
stantial fraction of their energy in X-rays. Since X-rays
are absorbed by the Earth’s atmosphere, observations
must be made from balloons, rockets, or satellites. SAO
scientists and engineers are involved in the analysis of
existing X-ray data as well as the design and develop-
ment of new instrumentation for future space missions.

This year, SAO scientists discovered a new black hole
candidate in the Milky Way, the third and most convinc-
ing such system identified to date. The technique devel-
oped to find this rare object—through observations of its
visible light counterpart—can now be applied to search
for additional members of this class.

Analysis of data from the Einstein Satellite Observa-
tory revealed a high-density, relatively cool, X-ray-
emitting gas in the central regions of some galaxies. As
this gas cools, it condenses to form new stars; in other
words, these otherwise “old” galaxies still show activity
characteristic of younger galaxies.

SAO scientists used observations of quasars—
extremely luminous objects at the core of some galax-
ies—to demonstrate that their X-ray emission exhibits
essentially a universal signature, and therefore provides a
very efficient way to find quasars. This result is impor-
tant for understanding the development of certain prop-
erties of the universe over the past fifteen billion years.

SAO scientists and engineers are working with the Na-
tional Aeronautics and Space Administration and indus-
try on detailed definition and design studies of the Ad-

The Multiple Mirror Telescope operated by the Smithsonian Institution and the University of Arizona atop Mt. Hopkins in southern
Arizona is seen here from its observing chamber. (Photograph by Dane Penland)

vanced X-ray Astrophysics Facility. With its large
increase in angular resolution and sensitivity over previ-
ous X-ray satellites, this facility has great potential for
answering fundamental questions and revealing previ-
ously unknown phenomena.

Optical and Infrared Astronomy

This division studies the large-scale structure of the uni-
verse and the formation and evolution of stars and stel-
lar systems. In support of this and other research, SAO
operates the Fred Lawrence Whipple Observatory on
Mt. Hopkins in Arizona, the site of the Multiple Mirror
Telescope (MMT), operated jointly with the University
of Arizona. The MMT is the third largest optical tele-
scope in the world, and the first of a new generation of
advanced-technology telescopes. Also at Mt. Hopkins
are two smaller telescopes especially effective for large-

scale surveys. In addition, a 1o-meter-diameter light col-
lector at the Whipple Observatory represents the world’s
most sensitive device for ground-based searches for high-
energy gamma rays from celestial sources.

Astronomers discovered a remarkable and fundamen-
tal property of the universe—galaxies seem to congregate
on the surfaces of giant bubblelike voids that can be too
to 150 million light years in diameter. The Whipple Ob-
servatory is being used to explore the bubble structures.

Cosmic rays have been a great puzzle to scientists be-
cause no satisfactory explanation has been found for
how the rays are created. Observations with the
ro-meter instrument at Whipple Observatory led to the
suggestion that cosmic rays may be produced by a hand-
ful of very rare star systems in our galaxy. Each such
system contains two stars orbiting about one another—
one star, collapsed under its own gravity, creates the en-
vironment needed to produce the very-high-energy parti-
cles that constitute the cosmic rays.
Planetary Sciences

Planetary sciences research strives to understand the
planets, satellites, and small bodies of the solar system,
as well as the processes that created them. Optical obser-
vations of newly discovered, faint, or unusual minor
planets and comets are made at the Oak Ridge Observa-
tory in Massachusetts and are closely coordinated with
the International Astronomical Union’s Minor Planet
Center and Central Bureau for Astronomical Telegrams,
both operated by SAO.

Division scientists were involved in research concern-
ing the 1985-86 appearance of Halley’s comet, including
measurements of the nucleus—the first glimpse ever of
the heart of a comet. These measurements confirmed
and extended the famous “dirty snowball” model of a
comet’s nucleus developed by a member of this group.

The Voyager missions discovered Saturn’s outermost
ring to be curiously uneven in brightness: two bright re-
gions 180 degrees apart are separated by two darker re-
gions. The SAO scientist who mapped these variations
explained this irregularity as a tendency of the particles
to cluster gravitationally in aligned arrays, reflecting
light better in one direction than in the direction perpen-
dicular to it.

Studies of lunar samples collected by the Apollo astro-
nauts continued. The Apollo 16 site, located in the cen-
tral highlands of the Moon, consists of layers of debris
splashed to the site from giant impacts that created the
large basins approximately 3.9 billion years ago. SAO
studies show that the impact that formed the Imbrium
Mare basin appears to have occurred some 50 million
years earlier than was previously thought, providing a
more accurate chronology of the Earth-Moon system.

Radio and Geoastronomy

Radio astronomy programs concentrate on the structure,
evolution, sources of energy, and ultimate fate of radio
wave-emitting astronomical objects distributed through-
out the universe. Division scientists are also using radio
astronomy techniques to measure continental drift and to
probe the interior structure of the Earth, while others
are developing atomic clocks and testing the theory of
general relativity.

By measuring with extraordinary precision the motions
of masers—formed from water vapor that surrounds a
newly formed massive star near the center of the Milky
Way—SAO scientists directly measured the distance to

74

the center of the Milky Way to be 23,000 light years.
This value is considerably smaller than the standard
value of 33,000 light years used for the last two decades,
and will have a major impact on understanding of the
distance between objects in our galaxy.

Other SAO scientists and their Harvard collaborators
used the Very Long Baseline Interferometry technique to
make one of the first precise measurements of the dis-
tance from Earth to an astronomical object outside our
galaxy—Supernova 1979C in the spiral galaxy Mroo in
the Virgo cluster. They determined the distance from
Earth to the supernova to be about 20 megaparsecs
(with an uncertainty of about 7 megaparsecs), or
approximately 60 million light years. The ability to mea-
sure extragalactic distances is central to many cosmologi-
cal issues, including the size, age, structure, and ultimate
fate of the universe.

SAO researchers and their Harvard colleagues
obtained the first detailed evidence that infrared sources
associated with dense cores contain, and are powered by,
extremely young, low-mass stars. Moreover, the circum-
stellar matter near these stars typically has a “cavity”
containing a flattened structure, or “disk,” which may
eventually form planets.

Optical interferometry seeks extremely high angular
resolution by extending interferometric techniques devel-
oped for radio astronomy to optical wavelengths. For
example, a 20-meter-long stellar interferometer being
installed at the Mt. Wilson Observatory—as part of a
joint SAO, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Naval
Research Laboratory, and U.S. Naval Observatory
project—is expected to be ro to 100 times more accurate
than conventional optical telescopes for determining po-
sitions of stars.

An orbiting, dual, optical interferometer has been de-
signed to make measurements of positions of astronomi-
cal objects with errors at the microarcsecond level. (A
microarcsecond is the angular size of the thickness of a
dime on the Moon as seen from Earth.) This space-
borne instrument will be used to search for other plane-
tary systems, conduct a new test of general relativity, and
improve the cosmic distance scale through extension of
triangulation to much greater distances.

The previous highest stability for atomic clocks, all
operating at room temperature, had been equivalent to
the loss of less than 1 second in too million years. An
SAO- and Harvard-designed clock was successfully oper-
ated at a temperature within one-half degree of absolute
zero and is expected to be 1,000 times more accurate.
Solar and Stellar Physics

Investigations are directed toward understanding the
physical processes operating in the Sun and stars. Stars
like the Sun are studied to understand the dependence of
their properties on age, on composition, and on their
physical associations in pairs and in groups. Other re-
search includes examination of the behavior of hot gas in
extended stellar atmospheres, in the interstellar medium,
and in material ejected from young stars and
supernovae.

Noteworthy this year was the discovery of a flattened,
rotating gas cloud surrounding a very young star. Study
of spectra obtained at Mt. Hopkins and at Kitt Peak Na-
tional Observatory revealed evidence of a thin gaseous
disk orbiting the star, perhaps indicating a planetary sys-
tem in the process of formation.

Supernova remnants contain material violently ejected
by a dying star, as well as interstellar gas heated to hun-
dreds of thousands of degrees by the expanding shock
wave. The hot material is observed as long, narrow fila-
ments. Physicists at SAO, the California Institute of
Technology, and the University of Wisconsin hypothe-
sized that these filaments are ripples in a very large, thin
sheet of glowing gas; observations of predicted gas mo-
tion confirmed the hypothesis. Previously, theorists had
assumed interstellar space was filled with small, discrete
clouds of dense gas immersed in a much lower density
background gas. The recent observations suggest there
may be other ways by which stars and planets are
formed out of the materials in space.

A new technique of astronomical imaging that over-
comes the normal blurring caused by motions in Earth’s
atmosphere, combined with sophisticated data analysis
techniques, was used to reveal a faint companion to one
of the brightest stars in the sky—Betelgeuse. The new
technique may make it possible to search for other low-
mass stellar companions as well as planetary systems.

Theoretical Astrophysics

Theoreticians at SAO study astronomical systems by
physical analysis and mathematical modeling. Topics in-
vestigated include interiors of neutron stars, properties of
atoms and molecules in interstellar space, formation of
spiral structure in galaxies, behavior of high-temperature
plasmas, and formation of planets in the early solar sys-
tem.

right ascension

h . = h

265 <5 6 325 velocity (km/s)

1060 galaxies

This two-dimensional representation of galaxy distribution in a
narrow, deep slice of the sky shows that the galaxies lie on the
surfaces of large, bubblelike voids up to r50 million light years
across. (Map by Valerie de Lapparent, Margaret Geller, and
John Huchra)

One exciting recent theory in cosmology is the “new
inflationary universe,” which suggests the universe under-
went a phase of rapid expansion early in its history—
almost immediately after the “big bang’—when particle
energies were enormous. The existence of this expan-
sion, or “inflationary” phase explains several previously
puzzling features of our universe, such as its impressive
uniformity. In principle, the properties of an “inflation-
ary universe” might be used to calculate any deviations
from uniformity of the distribution of matter and energy
in the early universe, and predict the fluctuations in den-
sity out of which galaxies and other large-scale structures
formed. These calculations would provide a critical test
of such inflationary theories, as well as of the underlying
theories of elementary particles.
Smithsonian Environmental
Research Center

Basic scientific research aimed at understanding the pro-
cesses occurring in the environment and their influence
on biological systems and organisms is the principal ac-
tivity of the Smithsonian Environmental Research Cen-
ter.

SERC has two principal facilities: a 50,o00-square-foot
laboratory at Rockville, Maryland, and 2,600 acres of
land with a small laboratory and support buildings at
Edgewater, Maryland.

SERC also maintains an educational program that in-
cludes graduate students, postdoctoral fellows, under-
graduate work/learn students, and public educational
activities. The public education aspects emphasize
teacher- and docent-led tours and activities. Docents
guide adult and family groups on a two-mile Discovery
Trail through outdoor research areas. A pamphlet keyed
to signs on the Discovery Trail makes the walk self-
guiding for visitors who are not on a scheduled tour. A
recently developed soundtrack slide show describes the
research at both Rockville and Edgewater.

Regular scientific seminars were held at both Edgewa-
ter and Rockville in fiscal year 1986. This ongoing edu-
cational activity informs the interested public about re-
search activities and informs SERC staff about the work
of colleagues in universities and other governmental lab-
oratories. In addition, a scientific workshop was held at
Edgewater on landscape ecology. Research is done by
staff scientists who represent diverse disciplines, includ-
ing biology, chemistry, physics, mathematics, and engi-
neering, within the framework of regulatory biology and
environmental biology.

The Environmental Research Center in Rockville
closed on November 22, 1986. This laboratory began
fifty-seven years ago with the mandate by Secretary
Charles G. Abbot to study the influence of sunlight on
growth and development of biological organisms. Re-
search at the Edgewater location will continue.

The laboratory activities at Rockville began as a part
of the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory and was
an extension of Dr. Abbot’s interests in measuring solar
radiation. The laboratory staff produced some of the
first measurements of seed germination, phototropism,
and a series of other plant responses to light, establishing
the laboratory as one of the leading photobiological and
biophysical laboratories in the world.

Instruments were developed and measurements made
of solar radiation that strikes the Earth. The laboratory
obtained the longest continuous data base of solar con-
stant measurements, daily measurements of the quality
and quantity of sunlight at three-minute intervals for

76

many consecutive years, and measurements of ultraviolet
radiation under widely varying geographical locations
and weather conditions.

The objective has been to learn how sunlight regulates
growth and development under natural conditions. From
action spectra of photomorphogenesis for a wide range
of biological responses—such as stem elongation, leaf
expansion, hook opening of bean hypocotyls, flower in-
duction and pigment synthesis of chlorophylls, antho-
cyanins, and carotenoids—it was demonstrated that the
red far-red reversible pigment, phytochrome, is involved
as well as an uncharacterized blue light absorbing pig-
ment.

As physiological responses were measured, biochemi-
cal, genetic, and structural experiments were carried out.
Biochemical purification and characterization of phyto-
chrome were achieved; the interplay between the genetics
of nuclei, chloroplasts, and mitrochondria have been de-
scribed extensively; and the role of accessory pigments in
algae determined. The identity and structural arrange-
ment of these accessory pigments within the phycobil-
isomes have been achieved. And the basic processes of
flowering, gas exchange, and water relations have been
studied extensively. Finally, the sensory pathways of
stimulus response systems in fungi have been character-
ized biophysically, and biochemical genetics for the initial
processes of biosynthesis of carotenoids have been pub-
lished.

The carbon dating laboratory has provided carbon-14
dates of age for thousands of specimens. Among the la-
boratory’s principal accomplishments has been the publi-
cation of more than 500 basic research papers and sev-
eral books and the training of more than sixty pre- and
post-doctoral students. The laboratory was an interna-
tionally renowned center for photobiology.

Activities at Rockville
Regulatory Biology

The light environment in which plants exist greatly af-
fects their growth and development. It has been difficult
to separate the effects of changing light quantity from
the changes in the light quality. Efforts have been
directed toward understanding the effect of light inten-
sity on the growth and development of “shade loving”
single-celled organisms under laboratory conditions. A
better understanding was sought of how related multicel-
lular organisms (red algae) can acclimate to changing
light conditions in their natural environment. Red algae
generally grow under low light conditions in nature,
which led to the assumption that they are thriving under
the most favorable conditions and that special
light-harvesting pigments (phycobiliproteins) are mainly
involved in the acclimation to these conditions. The re-
sults obtained indicate that when cells grow best these
special pigments are reduced and the photosynthetic rate
of the organism is higher. These findings suggest that the
size of the light gathering apparatus is not an accurate
indicator of the photosynthetic capacity but rather that
other factors are more important in light energy utiliza-
tion. One of these is probably the turnover rate of the
photosynthetic reaction centers.

Chloroplasts are the subcellular structures within cells
of green plants in which photosynthesis takes place.
Chloroplasts are composed of membrane and nonmem-
brane phases. An important constituent of these mem-
branes, necessary for green plant photosynthesis, is CC I
(core complex I). It consists of protein, chlorophyll,
carotenoids, possible galactolipids, iron, and copper. The
biosynthesis of the protein components of CC I and its
structure are being studied in developing leaves of spin-
ach to understand membrane growth by studying how
proteins (polypeptides) of CC I are synthesized and
added to the photosynthetic membranes.

It was found that the principal polypeptides of CC I
(64,000 and 56,000 daltons—apparent molecular mass)
are synthesized by the portions of the protein synthesis
machinery of the chloroplasts—the ribosomes—attached
to the chloroplast photosynthetic membranes. More than
95 percent of the messenger ribonucleic acid which codes
for these polypeptides is associated with ribosomes at-
tached to the chloroplast membranes. Also, isolated
chloroplast membranes synthesize these polypeptides.
Thus, the portion of the chloroplast protein synthesis
apparatus bound to membranes is important in synthesis
of constituent polypeptides of CC I and may be impor-
tant in synthesis of other polypeptide constituents of the
membrane.

Spinach and corn chloroplast deoxyribonucleic acids
contain two closely spaced homologous genes for CC |
polypeptides. Both genes have been shown to be
expressed in corn. The results are that corn CC I gene 1
product corresponds to the spinach polypeptide of
56,000 dalton, and that it is likely that corn CC I gene 2
corresponds to the 64,000 dalton polypeptide of spinach.
Spinach CC I was isolated from spinach chloroplast
membranes. It contained 64,000 and 56,000 dalton poly-
peptides. An antibody to CC I reacted to both poly-

peptides. In contrast an antibody to a synthetic peptide
from corn gene 1 reacted only with the spinach 56,000
dalton polypeptide. The amino acid sequence of corn
gene 1 polypeptide was also present in spinach gene 1
and in the same position of the molecule as in corn.
Thus, the 56,000 dalton polypeptide of spinach CC I
corresponds to the polypeptide coded for by corn CC I
gene tr. It is likely that spinach 64,000 dalton polypep-
tide corresponds to the product of corn CC I gene 2.

Light also regulates the formation of pigments in
fungi. Phytoene, a 4o-carbon colorless compound,
is a precursor of the carotenoid pigments, and is
synthesized from a 5-carbon compound, isopentenyl
pyrophosphate (IPP), by a series of reactions. This bi-
osynthetic pathway has been examined in the fungus
Neurospora crassa using cell-free enzyme extracts. The
conversion of IPP to phytoene requires both soluble and
membrane-bound enzymes. The enzyme which converts
geranylgeranyl pyrophosphate (GGPP) to phytoene was
found to be membrane-bound and regulated by blue
light. This enzyme is absent in an albino-2 mutant. The
conversion of IPP to GGPP requires two soluble
enzymes, an isomerase and a prenyltransferase. The lat-
ter enzyme is regulated by blue light and is present at a
reduced level in an albino-3 mutant. Procedures are be-
ing developed to purify this prenyltransferase, as well
as a similar enzyme which catalyzes the formation of
farnesyl pyrophosphate, a precursor of steroids.

A serological examination of the distributions of
organelles of single-celled sporangiophores of the fungus
Phycomyces was completed using transmission electron
microscopy of the tips of young stage one sporangio-
phores grown in vertical or horizontal photogeotropic
equilibria. No observable differences could be found that
correlate with demonstrable geotropic sensitivities of
these cells. The data support the hypothesis that
displacement of the large central vacuole serves as the
gravireceptor sensitivity in this organism. This work was
carried out collaboratively at the University of Zurich,
Switzerland.

Finally, a collaborative project with Leonid Fukshan-
sky and Alfred Steinhardt of the University of Freiburg
in Germany was completed in which the optical parame-
ters of mature stage four sporangiophores of Phycomyces
were measured, and detailed light profiles within the cell
generated mathematically by means of the large Freiburg
computer. For these biophysical calculations the index of
refraction of individual cellular components, as well as
transmission and absorption properties, were measured.
Correlations were made between these calculated profiles

Uy
and experimentally determined phototropic sensitivities.
Good agreement was obtained between predicted values
and observed responses.

Environmental Biology

A two-year study of the flowering behavior in three spe-
cies of bamboo in Puerto Rico has been completed. The
results show that buds are released from dormancy twice
during the year at the onset of each rain season. Flower-
ing occurs once during the year in the dry season (De-

cember to January). Plant growth regulators (hormones )—

applied as foliar sprays, as a lanolin paste directly on
dormant buds, or as an injection into the internode of
the stem—had no effect on the timing of this flowering.
These species flower once every forty to seventy-five
years and then die; further experiments will be con-
ducted with other species.

Last year it was reported that photosynthesis of the
coastal halophyte Spartina alterniflora acclimated to salt
concentrations of one and one-half times the salinity of
sea water. Rates in acclimated plants were nearly equal
to those of plants exposed to salinity less than one-third
that of sea water. Plants grown at low salinity but ex-
posed transiently over a few days to high salinity were
severely impaired in all aspects of photosynthesis that
could be determined by gas exchange measurements on
whole leaves. This acclimation has been characterized
this year by examining metabolic processes involved in
its expression. It appears that a lesion in the photo-
synthetic apparatus results from impaired enzymes in the
C4 carboxylation pathway responsible for the assimila-
tion of CO;. Enzyme extracts of phosphoenolpyruvate
carboxylase in different conditions of salinity and nitro-
gen exhibited changes in enzyme activity that correlated
well with whole plant carboxylation efficiency. If these
results are translated to the field situation they explain
how plants in salt marsh environments are affected by
increasing concentrations of salt and explain why some
species, namely those having the C4 pathway, do better
than those with only the C3 pathway. C4 plants seem to
have a higher efficiency to utilize incorporated nitrogen.
Nitrogen is believed to be a limiting factor for growth
and production of salt marsh vegetation. Increasing sa-
linity appears to interfere with nitrogen metabolism, so
plants having the ability to acclimate to this condition
use nitrogen more efficiently and are more successful in
surviving salt stress.

78

The solar monitoring program at Rockville, Mary-
land, and Mauna Loa, Hawaii, has collected data on the
changes in atmospheric ozone and biologically active ul-
traviolet light. Although the visible region of daylight
continues to show trends due to local environmental ef-
fects, the invisible ultraviolet light shows distinctly differ-
ent trends. There have been significant changes in the
amount of ultraviolet light that has reached the surface
of the earth.

The Rockville data clearly show a long-term trend of
decreasing ozone since 1976 and a definite increase in
biologically active ultraviolet light. The invisible ultravi-
olet region of daylight is a major cause of cataracts and
skin cancer. In the upper atmosphere, the ultraviolet
light creates and destroys the ozone and heats the atmo-
sphere. The long-term trend shows that a decrease in the
amount of biologically active ultraviolet light now is be-
ginning. The time of beginning was not known exactly,
because terrestrial effects follow sunspot activity by two
to two and one-half years.

Short-term activity of the sun has also been detected.
In February 1986 a large drop in the biologically active
region of ultraviolet light was observed. The amount of
decrease became larger as the wavelength became smaller
indicating a concomitant rise in the ozone should have
taken place. A calculation from the data showed an
ozone increase of significant proportions, but it was not
large enough to account for the total drop in energy. A
comparison between the computed values and those
from the standard ozone measuring device at Mauna Loa
showed the computed variations to be correct. A later
comparison with the Earth Radiation Budget data from
Nimbus 7 showed the same loss of energy being mea-
sured in space. It appears to be a broad band loss in the
ultraviolet light output from the Sun. It is significant that
the solar monitoring program detected the loss at the
same time the satellite did, rather than years later.

Radiocarbon Dating

The laboratory completed 300 service dates for the year,
and the measuring equipment was shut down in mid-
July. The counters, shielding, and gas preparative trains
were loaned to the University of Pittsburgh, where Dr.
Stuckenrath has been appointed research professor of
anthropology.
Activities at Edgewater
Systems Analysis of Nutrient Flux

Overenrichment of Chesapeake Bay with nitrogen and
phosphorus has been recognized as a major regional
problem. SERC staff have examined this problem from
an over-all landscape perspective by constructing a sys-
tems analysis based on the results of a series of more
restricted studies. The annual movements of nitrogen
and phosphorus were measured at automated sampling
stations and arrays of surface and groundwater sampling
collectors. Croplands discharged far more nutrient per
acre than did pastures or forests. Most of the phos-
phorus was discharged as suspended sediment in over-
land flows during major storms while most of the nitro-
gen was discharged as nitrate in groundwater year-round
between storms. Most of the nitrogen and much of the
phosphorus released by croplands were absorbed by
riparian forests along primary streams before the nutri-
ents reached these channels. However, nutrient dis-
charges from these primary streams still exceeded dis-
charges from primary streams which drained pastures or
forests. A freshwater forested swamp, through which
most of the watershed drained, also trapped significant
amounts of nutrients, especially phosphorus during ma-
jor storms. The ratio of nitrogen to phosphorus in all
watershed drainage was so low that nitrogen rather than
phosphorus might limit algal growth in the estuary. Tidal
estuarine headwater shallows were also a major trap for
phosphorus due to settling of suspended sediments. Of
the total nitrogen inputs to the landscape, 31 percent was
from precipitation and 69 percent was from farm man-
agement. Forty-six percent of the total nitrogen input
was removed as farm products, 53 percent either accu-
mulated in the system or was lost in gaseous forms, and
I percent entered the Rhode River. Of the total phospho-
rus inputs to the landscape, 7 percent was from precipi-
tation and 93 percent was from farming. Forty-five per-
cent of the total phosphorus input was removed as farm
products, 48 percent accumulated in the system, and 7
percent entered the Rhode River. The tidal Rhode River,
which has no point sources of nutrients, is seriously
overenriched. Therefore, from this landscape perspective,
improved Chesapeake Bay watershed management must
strive to further reduce these seemingly low nutrient
releases.

Sediment Flux

Sediment dynamics of the Rhode River watershed and
estuary were summarized for a period of seven years.
Sediment inputs to the estuary occurred primarily during
a few major storms. These storms delivered soil particles
eroded during these major storms and much of the sedi-
ments eroded by smaller storms. Most of the sediments
delivered by major storms are deposited in open water
areas in the headwaters within two or three days. Some
of these sediments were then slowly moved further down
the estuarine basin by tidal mixing processes which occur
continuously. Sediment dynamic data and historical
records indicate tidal marshes account for only 13 per-
cent of sediment trapping, although they occupy 60 per-
cent of the estuarine study area.

White Cedar Wetlands

Atlantic White Cedar wetlands are widely distributed
along the Atlantic coast yet there is very little informa-
tion on their structure and function. A study of one of
the last remaining White Cedar stands on the inner
coastal plain of Maryland compared its vegetation pat-
terns, soils, and vegetational nutrient status with other
nearby wetlands and a White Cedar site in Virginia. The
White Cedar wetland had high soil calcium and magne-
sium and low soil phosphorus content. Tree tissue com-
position indicated phosphorus and possibly potassium
and nitrogen deficiencies, as well as high tissue content
of aluminum. The abundance and distribution patterns
of thirty-two species of higher plants were recorded at
this White Cedar site.

Spawning Cycles in Mummichog

In the tidal Rhode River, large populations of mummi-
chog (Fundulus heteroclitus) live along tidal creek shore-
lines and move up onto the marsh surfaces to feed dur-
ing high tides. Along the east coast of North America,
mummichogs move up onto the surface of salt marshes
during high spring tides to spawn and have been shown
to have semilunar spawning cycles. In the Chesapeake
Bay, where tidal changes frequently and unpredictably
override lunar tidal levels, it was found that mummi-
chogs still had semilunar reproductive cycles which
lagged the new and full moons by three to four days.

79
These results indicate that the fish act on something
other than tidally mediated factors, such as turbulence,
salinity, or temperature.

Invertebrate Populations in the Estuary

Animal population results were integrated and evaluated
from the first six years of a long-term study in the tidal
Rhode River. Population abundances for invertebrates
living in sandy or muddy bottom sediments were moni-
tored; near-shore fish were sampled for young-of-the-
year populations, and bottom-dwelling fish and crabs
were trawled for by a standardized procedure each year.
Population data were compared to physical/ chemical
water quality and weather variables monitored continu-
ously at the site for sixteen years, to test for patterns and
relationships. The study period spanned a multiyear pe-
riod of regional drought which resulted in markedly in-
creased salinities. All but two of forty-two species under-
went significant changes in population densities among
years. However, only 12 to 82 percent of the population
changes could be explained on the basis of salinity
changes with a statistical model.

Still under exploration are relationships to such other
factors as phytoplankton densities, suspended sediment
concentrations, and dissolved oxygen dynamics which
have also been measured continuously. Vertical distribu-
tions of invertebrates in sandy and muddy bottom sedi-
ments were also measured in detail at a series of locales.
Polychaete worms, amphipods, and young clams did not
move more than two inches into the sediments, whereas
large clams moved as deep as one foot and were
restricted to sandy sediments. Studies of the feeding of
adult blue crabs on adult soft-shelled clams indicated
that these clams can only persist by burrowing deep in
sandy sediments. In controlled experiments it was shown
that crab predation was significantly higher in mud than
sand. Blue crabs displayed prey density-dependent feed-
ing in sand, but not in mud. Thus, clams hiding in mud
are essentially quantitatively harvested by blue crabs, but
after the crabs have removed part of the population in
sand they cannot find enough clams to be worthwhile.

80

Smithsonian Institution

Archives

The Smithsonian Institution Archives (SIA) is the central
archives of the Institution, keeper of its official records,
and collector of supplementary documentation on the
history of its activities. The Archives was organized in its
present form in 1967, and its holdings are of great value
to scholars working on the history of American science
and culture.

This past year was highlighted by an SIA reception
and exhibition celebrating the rooth anniversary of the
birth of Alexander Wetmore, sixth Secretary of the
Smithsonian Institution. The exhibition, Alexander Wet-
more: The Early Years, 1900-1925, drew on documents
and photographs from Wetmore papers in the Archives
to depict his early fieldwork in ornithology. Silent film
footage of Wetmore’s Panama expeditions in the 1950s
was copied onto videotape, coupled with narration pre-
pared by the Archives historian and the late Watson M.
Perrygo, Wetmore’s colleague on the expeditions. The
tape was shown to those attending the centennial cele-
bration and has been made available to other audiences.

A similar project, film footage of the r94r
Smithsonian-Firestone Expedition to Liberia, with narra-
tive by Lucile Mann on videotape, was shown to a num-
ber of audiences during the year, and copies were made
available to the U.S. Information Center in Monrovia.

The Archives will be home to a major new source of
historical documentation on videotape. A grant awarded
to the Smithsonian Institution by the Alfred P. Sloan
Foundation will support videotaping of interviews about
“Science in National Life.” The Archivist serves on the
project advisory committee, which is headed by David
DeVorkin of the National Air and Space Museum
(NASM). Two projects relating to species conservation
and to challenges to evolutionary theory will be
conducted by the SIA oral history staff. Other projects
will be undertaken by curators in NASM and the Na-
tional Museum of American History.

The Archives participated, through research and loans
of materials, in the development and execution of the
major Smithsonian Institution exhibition Magnificent
Voyagers: The U.S. Exploring Expedition, 1838-1842.
Loans were also made to the Cosmos Club for an exhibi-
tion on Alexander Wetmore, to the Folger Shakespeare

The Smithsonian Institution Archives recently received a large
collection of photographs of entomologists. In this photograph,
circa 1888, entomologists—at what was then called the U.S.
National Museum—Eugene A. Schwarz (/eft) and John Bernard
Smith are shown at rest on a field trip.
81
Library for an exhibition on Emily Dickinson, and to
NASM for the Looking at Earth exhibition.

During 1985 the Archives staff played an important
role in activities concerning both archives and museum
archives. The deputy archivist led a consortium of muse-
ums—the Field Museum of Natural History in Chicago,
the American Museum of Natural History in New York,
the Natural History Museum of Los Angeles County, the
California Academy of Sciences, and the Academy of
Natural Sciences of Philadelphia—in its efforts to estab-
lish common archival practices. He was also named
North American Representative of the Society for the
History of Natural History. The associate archivist organ-
ized the Museum Archives Roundtable of the Society of
American Archivists for the sharing of information and
experiences of museum archivists. Other members of the
staff provided advice to a number of museums and ar-
chives on the management of photographic collections
and on oral history techniques. The Archivist conducted
a tour of archives in the People’s Republic of China for
three dozen representatives of the Society of American
Archivists. The SIA regular lecture series on Research in
Progress included talks on the first Smithsonian photo-
grapher, Thomas W. Smillie, by David Haberstich of the
National Museum of American History, and on Black
artist W. H. Johnson by Smithsonian Fellow Richard J.
Powell. The opening of Magnificent Voyagers was the
occasion for a lecture by Colorado College professor
Richard Beidleman, who retraced the Wilkes party
movements in Australia. Ellen B. Wells of the Smithson-
ian Institution Libraries spoke on the popular natural
history books of Reverend J. G. Powell.

Also this year, the Archives published Guide to the
Field Reports of the United States Fish and Wildlife Serv-
ice, circa 1860-1961, the fourth volume in its guides to
collections series.

Nearly 1,500 reference inquiries were answered this
year by SIA staff. Publications during the year that relied
in part upon research at SIA included “Disloyalty, Dis-
missal, and a Deal: The Development of the National
Museum at the Smithsonian Institution, 1846-1855,” by
Joel J. Orosz, in Museum Studies Journal 2 (1986), and
Captured Heritage: The Scramble for Northwest Coast
Artifacts (Seattle and London: University of Washington
Press, 1985) by Douglas Cole. Elizabeth Barnaby Keeney
completed a Ph.D. dissertation entitled The Botanizers:
Amateur Scientists in Nineteenth-Century America (Uni-
versity of Wisconsin-Madison, 1985); and Paul Russell
Cutright was the author of Theodore Roosevelt: The
Making of a Conservationist (Urbana and Chicago:

82

University of Illinois Press, 1985). Research still in
progress includes a biographical study of ornithologist
Charles E. Bendire, a history of paleontology at the
Smithsonian, and a biography of Charles D. Walcott,
fourth Secretary of the Institution.

Records survey work in the past year was highlighted
by a major survey of the records of the Freer Gallery of
Art, and continuation of surveys and follow-up surveys
at the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory, the Na-
tional Zoological Park, the Smithsonian Environmental
Research Center, the Anacostia Neighborhood Museum,
the Archives of American Art, the National Museum of
American Art, the National Museum of Natural History,
and the National Museum of American History.

Manuscript collections accessioned this year included
the papers of entomologist Curtis N. Sabrosky and inver-
tebrate zoologist Raymond B. Manning. The American
Association for Zoological Nomenclature and The Crus-
tacean Society entered into agreements with the Smith-
sonian Archives for SIA to be the official repository of
their records, joining more than a score of professional
societies which have now so designated the Smithsonian
Institution Archives. A set of guidelines on records reten-
tion and disposal has been developed for such societies.

Oral history interviewing continued and new acquisi-
tions during the year brought the collection total to 270
hours of recorded audiotape and nearly 5,000 pages of
transcript.

The SIA survey of photographic collections in the
Smithsonian Institution made great strides in the past
year, completing survey work in the National Zoological
Park, the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, the
Freer Gallery of Art, the National Museum of African
Art, the Office of Printing and Photographic Services,
the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory, and the
Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute. Work was be-
gun in the National Museum of Natural History and the
Archives of American Art; and drafting of the first of a
series of finders’ guides (for the National Museum of
American History) was substantially completed. Publica-
tion of the latter is scheduled for the fall of 1987, and it
will include an extensive glossary of photographic termi-
nology. The photographic collections survey project is
becoming a national model.
Smithsonian Institution
Libraries

Smithsonian Institution Libraries (SIL) continued to serve
the Institution and the public through support of
Smithsonian curatorial, research, and other program ac-
tivities; through direct participation in the creation of
and providing ready access to a national bibliographic
data base; and through programs for loan and informa-
tion services, publications, and exhibitions. The SIL, a
member of the Association of Research Libraries, is di-
vided into three operational divisions (Automated Sys-
tems, Research Services, and Collections Management)
and a Planning and Administration Office.

The collections of approximately 980,000 volumes,
including over 20,000 journal titles, are available to
Smithsonian staff and other scholars through a system of
fourteen branch libraries spread over thirty-five locations
throughout the Washington, D.C., area; New York City;
Cambridge, Massachusetts; Mount Hopkins, Arizona;
and the Republic of Panama.

The Libraries’ budget represents 2.5 percent of
Smithsonian federal expenditures, exclusive of trust and
auxiliary enterprises. During fiscal year 1986 the Librar-
ies received three grants totaling $25,000 from the Ather-
ton Seidell Endowment Fund and a fourth for $3,000
from the Women’s Committee of the Smithsonian Associ-
ates. Personnel resources were reinforced through an in-
creased number of stay-in-school employees working in
central services and branch libraries, interns serving in
four units, and through the dedicated service of sixty-

seven volunteers who assisted in all units of the Libraries.

Via Karklins was named the first SIL deputy director,
and in June it was announced that David Challinor, As-
sistant Secretary for Research, is the SIL liaison for ad-
ministrative and programmatic matters, with Tom Freud-
enheim, Assistant Secretary for Museums, providing
counsel on museum-related matters. The opening of a
renovated Central Reference and Loan Services branch
and the physical consolidation of all central services,
with new quarters for the Acquisitions Unit and Supply
Services, were accomplished in October and January, re-
spectively. Planning progressed for the opening of the
Museum of African Art branch in the Quadrangle; the
design for the renovation of the main location of the
Natural History branch was completed; and installation
of uniform signs in all SIL units was started this year.

Automated Systems Division

The division continued to extend and upgrade the inte-
grated on-line library system of the Smithsonian Institu-

Smithsonian Institution Libraries Director Robert Maloy pre-
sented a copy of the Manuscripts of the Dibner Collection (SIL
Research Guide No. 5) to Dr. and Mrs. Bern Dibner at a recep-
tion held in the Dibner Library at the National Museum of Amer-
ican History in October 1985.

tion Bibliographic Information System (SIBIS) by imple-
menting new modules for additional functions and
services. An important development in this process was
the installation of the Geac 9000 computer which sup-
ports a greatly improved bibliographic processing system
with capabilities for Boolean searching, authority con-
trol, and automated management of bibliographic head-
ings—such as personal and corporate authors and sub-
ject index terms. The system also has a capability to
produce management information reports. More people
are using the system, with access by both dedicated ter-
minals and personal computers. These devices are linked
to the computer by hard wire or dedicated data lines, or
through dial-up lines from as far away as Panama.
Through a concentrated program of retrospective conver-
sion of old manual records, the SIL data base has grown
to over 325,000 records. Work has started on the last
phase of the conversion program which will convert and
add the old, incomplete, manual records to the data
base. Upon completion, the index to the older SIL col-
lections will be improved and the assignment of call
numbers will permit the physical integration of previ-
ously unclassed books into the collections.

As the Acquisitions Services unit completed its second
successful year using the SIBIS acquisitions system for
orders and payments, planning began for implementation
of the serials check-in module. SIL books are now being
barcoded in preparation for implementation of the on-
line circulation system. Inroads have been made into
cataloguing/inventory backlogs by use of the on-line sys-

83
tem, contract work, and the hiring of a second rare-
book cataloguer. Special attention has been given to the
production of specialized bibliographies. The African Art
and Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute bibliogra-
phies were the first to be added to the SIL data base.
Indexing of trade literature continued, and 35,000 trade
catalogue records are now a part of the data base.

Research Services Division

The division continued to stress more effective delivery
of information to users as its primary goal. Within a few
weeks of the implementation of a contract for commer-
cial document delivery service, interlibrary loan backlogs
were cleared in all branches. Subsequently, it has been
possible to dispatch requests within twenty-four hours.
The larger branches were assigned responsibility for
most interlibrary borrowing in order to integrate that
function more fully into over-all reference services. Ef-
forts were also made to regularize relations with the Li-
brary of Congress and to conform to its restrictions on
loan periods. As a result, hundreds of overdue Library of
Congress books were returned by borrowers, and by the
end of the fiscal year all outstanding loans had been
cleared. Another focus of activity was the further system-
atization of procedures, forms, and standards. Managers
of the four organizational units met monthly throughout
the year in consultation with the division assistant direc-
tor to address operational issues. As a result, the division
functions more smoothly and with greater consistency
across branches than ever before. This improvement has
also been aided by full staffing in the division for the
first time in four years.

Collections Management Division

The division is responsible for selecting and ordering re-
search materials for the branches, maintaining and pre-
serving the SIL collections, and ordering books for of-
fices throughout the Institution. Collection development
policies for each of the branches are nearing completion.
The African Art branch continued retrospective purchas-
ing to enhance SIL’s Africana collections. Since 1985, the
branch collection has doubled in size to more than
10,000 volumes, with special emphasis on travel and ex-
ploration, early ethnographies, African imprints, and
specialized serials. Of special note was the purchase of
Charles Guillain’s three-volume Documents sur l’His-

84

toire, la Geographie et le Commerce de l'Afrique Orient-
ale (1856), with accompanying folio atlas containing orig-
inal engravings.

Other notable additions to the Libraries’ research col-
lections were a gift to the Cooper-Hewitt Museum
branch of 400 pop-up books dating over the past cen-
tury; a collection of nineteenth-century farmers’ and
country almanacs; books on physical anthropology from
the estate of Professor Carleton $. Coon; and an exceed-
ingly rare 1611 pamphlet by Johannes Kepler, a purchase
made possible by the Dibner Fund. Staff of the Book
Conservation Laboratory made two important discover-
ies. In preparing a Charles Darwin manuscript for use in
filming an episode of the television series, Smithsonian
World, laboratory staff removed the cardboard backing
to discover handwriting on the back of the page. Identi-
fication of the author is still under investigation. Then,
during the restoration of a rare eighteenth-century vol-
ume printed in Spain, laboratory staff discovered two
complete copies of a 1763 pamphlet containing a lauda-
tory poem used to stiffen the book’s two vellum covers.

The final report of the SIL Preservation Planning Pro-
gram, in which twenty-five staff members participated,
contained thirty-seven recommendations for enhance-
ments to current preservation efforts. One of the task
force reports revealed that the most pervasive preserva-
tion problem is severe brittleness, affecting 30 percent of
the books in the survey. In late 1985, a selection of brittle
volumes from the botany collection were microfilmed by
a contractor. A second significant report, compiled by an
SIL working group that included participants from three
other Smithsonian units, reviewed the current status of
optical digital disk technology and its applications to
preservation. The report included specifications for an
SIL pilot project, but recommended postponing action
until more information on the success of other projects is
available.

Public Programs

On November 14, SIL and the Society for the History of
Natural History (headquartered at the British Museum,
Natural History, London) cosponsored the annual
Ramsbottom Lecture featuring Joseph Ewan, Professor
Emeritus of Botany at Tulane University, who spoke on
American naturalists of the Andes and the Amazon. The
lecture was presented in conjunction with the opening of
Magnificent Voyagers: The U.S. Exploring Expedition
1838-1842, the National Museum of Natural History
exhibition. Other outreach activities included two events
in the SIL Lectures and Seminars Series—a seminar dis-
cussing a fourteenth-century manuscript containing text
of the Pentateuch, conducted by Allen Crown of the
University of Sydney, Australia, on May 16; and a lec-
ture featuring James M. Robinson, director of the Clare-
mont Institute for Antiquity and Christianity, who spoke
on “Reconstructing the First Christian Monastic Library”
on September 15. Dr. and Mrs. Bern Dibner were among
the distinguished guests who attended an October 1985
reception to mark the publication of Manuscripts of the
Dibner Collection (SIL Research Guide No. 5) where Dr.
Dibner was presented with the first copy of the publica-
tion. The event also celebrated the opening of an SIL
exhibition of the same name. Another SIL exhibition,
The Old Farmer’s Almanac, displayed materials donated
by Yankee Publishing Company. This gift of a complete
194-year run of the almanac from its first issue in 1792
was also marked by a press conference in the Dibner Li-
brary. Other exhibitions were Science and Technology in
Latin American History, Classics of Mathematics, and
The Excellent Mr. (John) Ray.

SIL was awarded $100,000 equivalent in Pakistani ru-
pees by the Smithsonian Foreign Currency Program to
fund part of its continuing Translation Publishing Pro-
gram, and an Institution contract with a Pakistani pub-
lishing house was signed in November. Six orders for
new translated publications were placed with an Indian
publishing house, and the production schedules for
twenty-eight orders placed under the old contract were
established at meetings with the contractors and other
U.S. government agencies with similar translation pro-
grams. Nematodes and Their Role in the Meiobenthos
was published by the program this year, and the texts of
ten translations were received for scientific editing by
scholars in the United States. The SIL Publications Pro-
gram filled requests for 546 copies of Book Collecting
and the Care of Books, an SIL publication.

SIL staff participated in a number of professional
meetings and collectively published five books, twenty-
one articles, and two reports. SIL welcomed the follow-
ing visitors this year: the director of the National Library
of Jamaica; professional librarians from the American
Association of Law Librarians; the Costa Rica Library
Association; the University of Tennessee, Knoxville; the
Biological Sciences Group of the Special Libraries Associ-
ation; a group of thirty professionals from other coun-
tries organized by the Academy for Educational Develop-
ment; graduate library students from four universities;
and the Washington Book Conservators Group.

Smithsonian Tropical Research
Institute

The sheer diversity of the tropics widens the perspective
on possible outcomes of evolution and vastly multiplies
the scope for comparison which plays a fundamental role
in achieving biological understanding. Because tropical
conditions have been normal for most of evolutionary
time, understanding the tropics enables scientists to see
the temperate zone in a truer light.

The Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute (STRI)
promotes basic research in the tropics by its staff, stu-
dents studying in association with the staff, and visiting
international scientists. As tropical nature is severely
threatened from many quarters, STRI promotes conser-
vation and education.

STRI offers the student of tropical forests the Barro
Colorado Nature Monument, centered on Barro Colo-
rado Island, which has been protected since 1923. This
island is within two hours of Panama City and has well-
equipped laboratories, offices, and living quarters. The
advantage of this island is the sixty years of previous
research, of unparalleled detail and extent, on which the
newcomer can build. STRI also offers the terrestrial biol-
ogist access to a variety of habitats. Through marine lab-
oratories on both coasts, STRI allows marine biologists
an opportunity to compare oceans only fifty miles apart,
which differ greatly in tidal regime, productivity, and
exposure to upwelling. The populations in these oceans
were separated less than four million years ago, offering
a natural experiment in evolution.

STRI maintains the largest library of tropical ecology
between Mexico City and Caracas, a variety of laborato-
ries, offices, apartments, personnel who can help one
cope with working in a different country, and programs
of assistantships for beginning students and fellowships
lasting from one to twelve months for more advanced
students. In addition, many STRI staff work in Asian
and African tropics to obtain comparative data.

Diversity of Adaptations

Predoctoral fellow Jess Zimmermann has been studying
an orchid which changes sex. He seeks to infer the cir-
cumstances which cause an orchid to change sex from
the influence of the environment on the sex of an orchid.
He is also investigating how orchids in well-lit habitats
divide their effort between reproduction and growth, and
the limits to the orchids’ power to produce fruit.

STRI senior scientist Martin Moynihan spent the first
five months of this fiscal year in Senegal studying varia-
tions in sexual behavior in coraciiform birds, especially

85
kingfishers and rollers. The sexual behavior of most ani-
mals include components that were originally hostile. In
at least three species of coraciiforms, the process is re-
versed: their threats include components that were origi-
nally sexual. Blue-bellied rollers use heterosexual pseudo-
copulation as threat displays; other species employ
homosexual behavior in their threats. Yet other species
reverse sex roles as a form of appeasement—males play-
ing females before other males to appear as mates rather
than threats.

STRI Director Ira Rubinoff is continuing studies of
diving in sea snakes, Pelamis platurus. It appears these
snakes “know” how deep they will dive and take on
enough gas to be neutrally buoyant at the intended
depth. Working with Jack Gee, Jeffrey Graham, and
Jorge Motta, Rubinoff found snakes new to a deep tank
take on so much gas that they are positively buoyant at
the bottom, while snakes familiar with the tank take on
just enough to be neutrally buoyant at the bottom. Fur-
ther studies of buoyancy mechanisms in snakes are in
progress.

Such studies of adaptation often bring out intricacies
of relationships between species in tropical forests. Don-
ald Windsor, of STRI, has been studying leaf miners of
the tree Byrsonima crassifolia (Malphigiaceae). These
leaf miners go to great lengths to hide their mines, min-
ing the oldest leaves of the tree—the hardest to see from
a distance. Yet, mined tissues turn black against the light
green background of the remaining leaf. Windsor ts try-
ing to learn whether this color change attracts
parasitoids which kill the leaf miners.

Neal Smith, of STRI, returned to his studies of oro-
pendolas, caciques, and their associated wasps, botflies,
and parasitic cowbirds. Oropendolas lay eggs in each
other’s nests. R. Fleischer of the University of Hawaii is
helping Smith with analyses of eggshell proteins that al-
low Smith to identify who laid the eggs that a given bird
is incubating. Nearby wasp colonies protect oropendola
nestlings from botfly attacks, and in oropendola colonies
surrounding such wasps nests, female oropendolas often
toss each other’s eggs out of the nests nearest to the
wasps. Experiments with introduced wasp nests inhab-
ited only by dead, pinned specimens suggest that oro-
pendolas must be stung before deciding that a wasp nest
is a desirable neighborhood for nests of their own.

In cooperation with Jonathan Horn of Kew Gardens,
Smith began chemical analyses of Omphalea —the
Euphorbiaceous vine fed upon by larvae of the Urania
moth—and found several nonprotein amino acids. Smith
confirmed that Omphalea vines which Urania caterpillars

86

have defoliated four successive times become unaccept-
able to Urania for the following three years. During this
period the vines have healthy foliage but produce no
flowers.

Biotic Diversity

The fifty-hectare plot of Stephen Hubbell and Robin
Foster, both of STRI, on Barro Colorado Island was re-
censused after five years. Changes in the plot over this
period confirm the inferences Hubbell and Foster drew
about the dynamics of the forest by comparing the distri-
butions of adult trees with saplings of the same species.
Saplings of the two most common overstory species,
Trichilia and Alseis, grow more slowly and die more rap-
idly where adults of their species are most common. For
most other species, survival and growth of saplings di-
minish almost imperceptibly by the presence of a conspe-
cific. Rare species regenerate no more effectively than
common ones, a fact which appears to belie several pop-
ular explanations of tropical species diversity. The plot is
still in a stage of succession, with common species in-
creasing at the expense of those of intermediate abun-
dance. The abundance of some species changed mark-
edly over the past five years; 40 percent of the Poulsenia
on the plot died, probably from the harsh El Nino dry
season of 1982-83.

The remapping revealed a striking contrast in patterns
of mortality between pioneer and mature forest trees. In
species of mature forest, annual mortality is independent
of size for stems greater than one centimeter in diameter.
Pioneer trees, on the other hand, survive better when
they get larger.

Alan Smith, of STRI, continued long-term studies of
growth, distribution, and reproduction in understory
forest herbs of Barro Colorado Island. Forest plots rang-
ing from 100 square meters to to square kilometers ap-
pear to contain no more species of understory herbs in
the tropics than in temperate zones. Perhaps study of a
group that does not share the explosive diversification of
the tropics will help STRI scientists to understand the
causes of this diversification.

Peter Becker and Alan Smith have been working to-
gether on a method to analyze canopy photographs to

Dr. Juan Laboa of the Diplomatic Corps of Panama visited Barro
Colorado Island on August 6, 1986.
estimate direct and diffuse radiation reaching the under-
story and to assess whether direct light is divided into a
few big sunflecks or many small ones. Canopy photogra-
phy permits a quick analysis of many sites from this
standpoint. On Barro Colorado Island, herbs are most
diverse where there is most light. Because of the light
received before trees overhead produce new leaves, un-
derstory herbs probably get more light in the temperate
zone than in the tropics.

Seasonal Rhythms

T. Mitchell Aide, a STRI predoctoral fellow from the
University of Utah, is studying how damage inflicted by
herbivores on leaves of different species of saplings re-
flects the seasonal rhythms of leaf flush in saplings. Hir-
tella triandra produces new leaves continuously, in small
amounts, from October through June. Damage by herbi-
vores drops by one-half during the dry season. Herbi-
vores build up as the rainy season starts, and Hirtella
stops producing new leaves in June, starting again late in
the rainy season when herbivore levels have subsided.

Gustavia produces new leaves at the end, and at the
beginning, of the rainy season. Each leaf expands to full
size in a week; most herbivore damage occurs before the
leaf has expanded. Leaf production is more synchronous
at the beginning of the rains. Presumably as a result, her-
bivores damage new leaves less at the beginning than at
the end of the rains. Leaves produced “out of turn” dur-
ing the rainy season are often destroyed before they can
expand. Young Gustavia leaves are covered with food
bodies that attract ants; these food bodies disappear af-
ter the leaf expands. Experiments are now in progress to
learn how effectively the ants protect the expanding
leaves.

Donald Windsor, of STRI, has been preparing a sum-
mary of results from eight years of monitoring seasonal
changes in climate and other aspects of the physical envi-
ronment on Barro Colorado Island.

Joseph Wright, of STRI, experimentally abolished one
aspect of the seasonal rhythm in experimental plots on
Barro Colorado Island. By irrigating them, he kept their
soil moisture content at rainy season levels all through
the dry season. Most deciduous trees on the irrigated
plots dropped their leaves in synchrony with conspecifics
outside, although Tabebuia guayacan and Dipteryx
within the plot kept their leaves through the dry season,
in contrast to their unirrigated conspecifics. Irrigation
did not affect the timing or amount of litter fall, but it

88

accelerated the decay of litter. During the dry season,
litter insects were more abundant on irrigated plots, as
were tiny insects on understory leaves.

On the San Blas Islands, off the Caribbean coast of
Panama, Ross Robertson, of STRI, has been studying
the causes of seasonal rhythms of reproduction in coral
reef fish. It is usually assumed that seasonal cessation of
reproduction in these fish reflects the inability of their
larvae to survive in the plankton at that season. He has
been simultaneously measuring egg production, rates at
which larval fish settle on the reef, and the ages of these
settlers to determine the extent variation in rates of set-
tlement reflects variation in previous reproductive rates.
It appears that ability of larvae to survive in the plank-
ton may not depend on the time of year and that these
fish reproduce seasonally because they are unable to pro-
duce eggs at certain times of year.

John Cubit, Hugh Caffey, Don Windsor, and Ricardo
Thompson have finished the analysis of eleven years of
monitoring the physical environment on the reef flat at
STRI’s Caribbean marine station on Galeta Point. They
found that when water on the reef flat is subject to ex-
tremes of temperature or salinity, the water can kill cor-
als elsewhere when it moves off the flat.

A Major Oil Spill

In April 1986, a major oil spill occurred near Galeta.
Enough oil reached Galeta to cause extensive mortality
on the reef flat, and perhaps long-lasting damage to the
mangroves behind the station. This is the first time an
oil spill has occurred in so well studied a place, and the
Department of the Interior expressed interest in follow-
ing up the effects of this disaster.

Jeremy Jackson, of STRI, assumed responsibility for
studying the consequences of the oil spill. This study will
span a considerable stretch of the Caribbean coast and
will build on previous work by many people at a variety
of sites. The studies will trace where the oil has gone
and where it is accumulating—and will assess subsequent
changes in mangrove trees, the communities of organ-
isms growing on mangrove roots, sea grasses, reef flats,
and subtidal reefs. Judith Connor, of Hopkins Marine
Station, has returned twice to study the effects of the oil
spill on algae; and Stephen Garrity, of the University of
Massachusetts, has returned once to study its effects on
intertidal snails.

Although there have been no previous studies of sub-
tidal reefs, a reef coral contains a record of its growth.
By drilling sections of reef corals, the effect of the oil
spill on reef growth can be traced.

Long-term Community Dynamics

Much research has been concerned with long-term as-
pects of community dynamics. Jeremy Jackson, with
Karl Kaufmann, is continuing his analysis of data from
Jamaica on the dynamics of encrusting organisms living
on the undersides of coral shelves. Jackson is working
with T. P. Hughes on the dynamics of coral reef popula-
tions at Jamaica. Peter Glynn, a former STRI staff mem-
ber now with the University of Miami, continues his
study of how the massive mortality of reef corals in the
eastern Pacific, inflicted by El Nino of 1982-83, affected
development of the reefs. Haris Lessios, of STRI, is fol-
lowing the recovery of the long-spined sea urchin Dia-
dema from the mass mortality that reduced their num-
bers by over 99 percent three years ago. Their numbers
are still very low, but their genetic variability is as high
as ever.

Genetics and Evolution

Haris Lessios, with James Weinberg, has found that what
was once thought to be a single species of isopod,
Excirolana brasiliensis, living on both coasts of Panama,
embraces one wide-ranging Atlantic species and a series
of Pacific species. Each beach on the Pacific has its own
species and genotype—one closely resembles the Atlantic
species.

Lyn Loveless and Jim Hamrick, of the University of
Georgia, have been studying isozyme variation in fifteen
species of tropical trees. They have been comparing vari-
ation within populations on Barro Colorado Island—
with variation among populations a few hundred meters
apart and two kilometers apart—and variation between
populations on that island and populations varying dis-
tances away on the mainland. Populations of Swartzia in
Panama are quite similar, and, for the seven other spe-
cies analyzed, genetic variation among populations on
Barro Colorado Island is about 5 percent of variation
within these populations.

Other STRI studies concern the origin and develop-
ment of phenotypic novelty. In Costa Rica, William
Eberhard, of STRI, has been studying the weaving of
webs by spiders. The web is a physical record of what
happened; moreover, many of the cues guiding the spider

A devastating oil spill near the Smithsonian Tropical Research
Institute’s Galeta laboratory in April 1986 coated reef, seagrass,
and mangrove communities with a heavy layer of oil.

in its completion of the web come from the web itself.
Spiders show variability in web building behavior from
one web to another.

In his new book, Sexual Selection and Animal Genita-
lia, Eberhard explores why animal genitalia are so vari-
able among species and why they evolve so rapidly. With
Eberhard and W. Wcislo, Mary Jane West Eberhard, of
STRI, has been studying the adjustment to group living
by spider wasps belonging to a family of otherwise soli-
tary animals. Their adaptation to new social
circumstances is manifestly incomplete. They spend an
inordinate amount of time stealing and eating each oth-
er’s eggs. They sometimes steal their own provisions and
allow other wasps to steal nest cells. The incompleteness
of their adaptation may reveal how animal behavior
might evolve in response to group living.

John Christy has been studying constraints on the evo-
lution of mating and breeding behavior in fiddler crabs.
Most Indo-Pacific species of fiddler crabs are large rela-
tives to their American counterparts; and most
Indo-Pacific fiddler crabs mate above ground near the
burrows of the females, while most American species
mate in the burrows of the males. Christy is analyzing
the relation of mating system to crab size and clutch
size. He is also studying Uca beebei; in this American

89
fiddler crab species, some females accept mates near
their own burrows while others search for mates near
the burrows of the males, sampling several before mating
with one in his burrow. Perhaps understanding why dif-
ferent female Uca beebei mate in different ways will shed
light on the sources of the different mating habits of
American versus Indo-Pacific fiddler crabs.

Jeremy Jackson has finished a book with Frank
McKinney on bryozoan evolution. He has started re-
search with Anthony Coates, of George Washington Uni-
versity, on how the uplift of the Panama Isthmus affected
the speciation and extinction of marine organisms—espe-
cially bryozoans, crabs, and molluscs—on its two sides.
They are accordingly focusing on the geology and pale-
ontology of Panama from the Pliocene age onward. The
first task is stratigraphic dating of the faunas and estab-
lishing correlations between them. The U.S. Geological
Survey will assist in dating these faunas, using microfos-
sils, such as foraminifera and dinoflagellates, collected
from them.

Evolutionary Convergence

STRI has long been interested in evolutionary conver-
gence because it tells STRI scientists something about the
predictability of evolution—allowing assessments of how
representative findings in Panama are of the tropics in
general.

Alan Smith returned to Mt. Kenya to continue his
study of growth forms and long-term rhythms of
growth, reproduction, and mortality of the alpine giant
senecios there. He has comparable work in progress on
the Espeletia (Compositae) of the high Andes in Venezu-
ela. These senecios only flower about every five years,
and plants of an entire mountaintop flower in tight syn-
chrony. The senecios reproduced in 1985, so Smith
started experiments on the factors influencing the germi-
nation and growth of seedlings—especially the effect of
habitat type, of nearness to adult, and the difference in
that adult’s influence according to whether it is a parent,
another adult of the same species, or an adult of differ-
ent species. Being away from adults dramatically
increases a seedling’s growth.

Egbert Leigh went to Madagascar with Alison Jolly of
Rockefeller University to continue his studies on the con-
trast in tree architecture, leaf size, form and arrange-
ment, and forest physiognomy between lowland rainfor-
est and forest of windy, foggy mountaintops. He
documented the striking similarities between the mon-

90

tane forest on the volcanic soil of the Montagne d’Am-
bres in Madagascar and the montane forest on the volca-
nic soil of the Cordillera de Tilaran in Costa Rica. He
also found that lowland rainforest in far southeast
Madagascar had far less diversity of trees than mid-
montane rainforest further north.

In cooperation with the Malaysian Forest Research
Institute and Peter Ashton of Harvard University,
Stephen Hubbell has begun mapping a fifty-hectare plot
of tropical rainforest in a Malaysian forest reserve. In
contrast to the 235,000 stems over 1 centimeter in diame-
ter on the plot of Barro Colorado, the Malaysian plot
will have over 350,000. When all the identifications are
complete, the Malaysian plot may have over 700 species
of freestanding woody plants, compared to 300 on the
plot at Barro Colorado.

Man in the Tropics

Olga Linares, of STRI, spent five months among the Jola
of Casamance in Senegal studying how the spread of Is-
lam affected gender roles in agriculture. Before Islam,
men and women participated equally in religious ritual
and worked together in the same rice fields. After Islam,
women grow only rice, the subsistence crop, and men
grow groundnuts, the cash crop. Linares is working on
drafts of two books on the Jola—one on the effects of
the drought and the other on the social division of labor
in agriculture.

A series of studies financed by the W. Alton Jones
Foundation are devoted to altering the relation between
man and nature in Panama. Nicholas Smythe and
Dagmar Werner are trying to find ways for people to
profit from the forest without destroying it. Smythe has
raised pacas, the most desirable game animal in Panama,
in a manner that prevents, apparently permanently, de-
pression of population levels—a major step towards their
domestication.

Gilberto Ocana has been studying ways to reclaim
wasteland for agriculture and to farm using land more
efficiently. He finds that a fast-growing hardwood from
Southeast Asia, Acacia mangium, grows very well on
poor soil. He has been testing annual and biennial le-
gumes for their ability to improve poor soil and finds
tropical kudzu, Desmodium gyroides, promising for the
purpose. He has also experimented with crops which
will grow with fast-growing leguminous trees. The crops
provide food while the trees provide firewood and main-
tain soil fertility.
Education

STRI’s newly consolidated Office of Educational Pro-
grams developed an audiovisual program on STRI’s his-
tory and activities for presentation to groups of govern-
ment officials and representatives of Panamanian
conservation groups. In addition, a series of bimonthly
newspaper articles have been prepared on conservation
topics.

Bringing tropical nature alive in people’s minds to
stimulate interest in its fate is a growing activity. Marina
Wong, a STRI postdoctoral fellow, and Jorge Ventocilla,
of STRI’s Office of Educational Programs, have com-
pleted the text and illustrations for a self-guiding nature
trail for visitors on Barro Colorado Island. Egbert Leigh,
of STRI, has arranged for artist George Angehr and
Malagasy botanist M. Abraham, of the Service deu Eaux
et Forets, to prepare an illustrated guide to the fifty most
common species of trees in a forest reserve near Perinet
between Tananarive and the east coast of Madagascar.

The Spanish translation of the Smithsonian Institution
Press book, The Ecology of a Tropical Forest, is nearing
completion. Publication of the Spanish edition of this
important book will make knowledge developed as a
result of STRI research programs more generally avail-
able in Panama and other Spanish-speaking nations. The
Office of Educational Programs continues to work with
the Kuna Wildland Management project on environmen-
tal education and conservation.

STRI and the University of Panama again jointly spon-
sored a graduate-level tropical ecology course focusing
on relationships between plants, animals, and the physi-
cal environment in habitats throughout the Republic of
Panama. Donald Windsor, of STRI, and Rosemary Segis-
tran de Chavez, of the University of Panama, were
course coordinators.

The Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Ser-
vice exhibition Galapagos: Born from the Sea is touring
Panama under cosponsorship of STRI and the National
Institute of Culture. The exhibit is presented in both En-
glish and Spanish.

A total of seventy-three men and women from the
United States, Asia, and Latin America received fellow-
ship support to conduct individual research or partici-
pate in ongoing research projects at various STRI facili-
ties during the past year. Fellowships and assistantships
were funded by the Smithsonian, the EXXON Corpora-
tion, the Jessie Smith Noyes Foundation, and other pri-
vate donors. In addition, two senior scientists, Heinz
Brucher from Argentina and Kizhakkedathu Mathai

Kochummen from Malaysia, were awarded fellowships
for advanced studies in tropical biology. Due to increased
efforts in informing the scientific community in other
countries of the availability of these programs, STRI has
had more participants from developing nations.

Facilities Development

STRI’s ambitious plans to improve the quality of facili-
ties have moved forward. On Barro Colorado Island,
design of a new dormitory, as well as kitchen, dining,
and conference rooms, are near completion. All will be
sited on the slopes above the existing dock facilities.
Plans for a major new research center at the Tivoli Site,
the Earl S. Tupper Research and Conference Center, are
almost complete with construction to begin in 1987. Fi-
nally, designs for new dormitories at Naos and Gamboa
are nearing completion.

Staff Changes and Appointments

Mrs. Leonor Motta became STRI executive officer after
several years in a legal executive position with the Pan-
ama Canal Commission. Photographer Carl Hansen now
leads the Photo Department at STRI. A new computer
specialist, Francisco Rivera, came to STRI from IBM
Panama. Carmen Sucre, formerly STRI’s budget officer,
replaced Hernando Leyton, STRI’s personnel specialist.
Argelis Roman, former biological assistant at STRI’s
Galeta Marine Lab, replaced Georgina de Alba in the
Office of Educational Programs for one year, while Mrs.
de Alba is in England on a Webb fellowship. Finally,
Joseph Bryan, Captain “Jack, retired in June. Jack came
to STRI in 1969 and as captain of the research vessel has
contributed to the success of the research of many scien-
tists. David West, from the electronics division of the
Panama Canal Commission, was hired to take his place.

91
MUSEUMS

Tom L. Freudenheim, Assistant Secretary for Museums

93
Anacostia Neighborhood
Museum

During 1986, the Anacostia Neighborhood Museum fea-
tured the exhibition The Renaissance: Black Arts of the
Twenties. Public programming in support of this exhibi-
tion included special performances by the D.C. Youth
Ensemble, actor William Marshal, and puppeteer
Schroeder Cherry. Lectures by historian David Levering
Lewis, Washington Post columnist Dorothy Gilliam, and
Renaissance artist/illustrator Prentiss Taylor were also
presented. A workshop designed to help teachers and
members of the community plan Black history programs
was presented, and a five-day seminar on Black arts of
the 1920s for area elementary and secondary teachers
was offered for credit. In addition, the Smithsonian’s Of-
fice of Elementary and Secondary Education supported
programs on “Langston Hughes,” “From These Roots,”
“The Cotton Club,” and “The Creation.” With the
Smithsonian’s Office of Museum Programs, the museum
produced Race Movies: Popular Art of the Renaissance,
which received a National Association of Government
Communicators’ Golden Screen Award.

Research, begun in 1985, continued for the upcoming
exhibitions: Climbing Jacob’s Ladder: The Development
of the Black Church, 1740-1877, and Hidden Contribu-
tors: Black Innovators and Inventors, which entailed
travel to major respositories and historical societies to
locate artifacts, working models, memorabilia, and vi-
sual images of the inventors.

The exterior of the Anacostia Museum Annex was
completed during 1986. Interior finishing will take place
during early 1987, and staff housed at the old Carver
Theater will move into the new Fort Stanton facility
later in 1987. The facility will provide much needed
space for the education staff, an exhibition hall, and
other public spaces.

94

Filming a public service announcement for an Anacostia Neigh-
borhood Museum exhibition, Mercer Ellington, son of the late
Edward “Duke” Ellington, is seen with the sculpture Ethiopia
Awakening by Meta Warick Fuller.
Archives of American Art

The Archives of American Art made substantial progress
in strengthening its collections and improving its service
to scholarship in fiscal year 1986. New collections of cor-
respondence, photographs, and other records reflect
most of the twentieth century and portions of the nine-
teenth century.

The largest acquisition in 1986—fifty cartons of the
business and exhibition files of the Midtown Gallery in
New York—includes hundreds of letters to and from
such prominent artists as Isabel Bishop, Paul Cadmus,
Philip Guston, and Waldo Peirce. A single, slim exceed-
ingly rare volume of satiric and slightly off-color verse
about Rockwell Kent is also a Peirce item; bound in the
volume are a Kent lithograph and a Peirce watercolor.
Among other important collections added to the
Archives’ holdings are the records of the Robert Carlen
Gallery in Philadelphia; a vivid diary kept chiefly in the
1920s by the New York artist James Britton, together
with sketchbooks and his lengthy reminiscences; manu-
script writings of the influential painter John Graham;
and large groups of the papers of Arthur Carles, Joseph
Cornell, Hugo Gellert, Morris Louis, Perry Rathbone,
and Aline Meyer Liebman, who conducted prolific corre-
spondence with Alfred Stieglitz and, to a lesser extent,
with Ansel Adams, Thomas Hart Benton, John Marin,
and Georgia O’Keeffe. A more unusual collection, do-
nated by the Whitney Museum, consists of 950 sketches
by Reginald Marsh, to be added to the Marsh papers
already at hand.

The Archives’ collecting projects in Philadelphia and
Chicago also moved forward with productive results.
Surveys of art-related records in the libraries, museums,
and historical societies of both cities are now completed,
and the search for privately held collections of papers is
well under way. In fiscal year 1986 the Archives received
thirty-five rolls of film representing selected materials
identified in the Philadelphia project and several addi-
tional groups.

Thirty-two hundred research visits to the Archives by
curators, Smithsonian fellows, graduate students, and
other researchers show that the field of art history is
thriving. The rate of publication, based on Archives
sources, remained high in 1986. New work on American
regionalism, abstract expressionism, Boston painters, art
in the Southwest, New Deal art, early American modern-
ism, and documentary photography leaned heavily on
the collections, as did biographies of Benjamin West,
John Singer Sargent, Jacob Lawrence, Ernest Flagg, and
John Steuart Curry and large-scale exhibitions of works

of David Smith, Diego Rivera, John Frazee, and Hiram
Powers.

New cataloguing procedures were implemented in 1986
to take advantage of computer technology. Detailed in-
formation on all incoming collections is now entered in
the Smithsonian mainframe computer and can be called
up by researchers at each of the six regional centers. The
inventory, one-third completed, of the Archives’ 75,000
works of art on paper is also available through the same
means.

John Graham (left) and Arshile Gorky are shown in this photo-
graph, circa 1934, from the John Graham Papers in the Archives
of American Art.
\

Wain

PRS

am
; . 7 7
he

Wt.

96
Arthur M. Sackler Gallery and
Freer Gallery of Art

A yearlong effort culminated in the Smithsonian’s pur-
chase of the finest existing collection of Persian and In-
dian paintings and manuscripts for the Arthur M.
Sackler Gallery. This collection, its whereabouts
unknown since World War II, was assembled between
1900 and 1943 by Henri Vever, a Parisian jeweler. It in-
cludes approximately five hundred manuscripts, paint-
ings, calligraphies, and book bindings, and represents a
comprehensive survey of the art of the Persian book.
Preparations for the opening of the Arthur M. Sackler
Gallery called forth a major effort from the staff that
serves both the Sackler and the Freer. Among the thirty
new staff members is Kyoichi Ito, from Japan, who

works in the traditional Oriental Art Restoration Studio.

Conservation staffs, under W. T. Chase III and Ryo
Nishiumi, spent 1986 preparing the Sackler collections
for public viewing. A major installation plan for the
1,000 objects was produced by the design and installa-
tion staff under head exhibition designer Patrick Sears.

Professor James L. Wescoat, from the University of
Chicago Department of Geography, completed his first
summer at the center under a Smithsonian—Rockefeller
Foundation Residency in the Humanities. Dr. Wescoat’s
research will lead to an exhibition on Mughal gardens.

In 1986, Wheeler Thackston, an instructor at Harvard
University, was awarded a Rockefeller residency to begin
in spring 1987. Dr. Thackston will be studying Timurid
inscriptions on paintings in the Freer and Sackler.

The Edward Waldo Forbes Fund—an endowment to
further scientific study of the care, conservation, and
protection of works of art—was established by the be-
quest of the late John S. Thacher, former director of
Dumbarton Oaks and founding member of the Freer
Visiting Committee. The fund was named in memory of
the late conservation pioneer and director of the Fogg
Art Museum. The bequest will allow for the training of
conservators from museums in Asia.

Arthur M. Sackler Gallery

His Highness Prince Sadruddin Aga Khan, former com-
missioner of refugees at the United Nations and a noted

This sixteenth-century page comes from an album thought to
have been assembled for the Mughal emperor, Shah Jahan
(reigned 1628-57). It was included in the Islamic section of the
first major cross-cultural exhibition of calligraphy at the Freer
Gallery of Art, From Concept to Context: Approaches to Asian
and Islamic Calligraphy.

collector of Islamic art, was among those who gathered
May 19 for the first meeting of the Arthur M. Sackler
Gallery Visiting Committee, an advisory group to the
Secretary of the Smithsonian. Other members of the
committee are Charles Blitzer, director of the National
Humanities Center; Professor Kwang-chih Chang of
Harvard University; Cynthia Helms, a Washington
writer; Porter McCray, former head of the JDR III Fund;
George McGhee, former American ambassador to Tur-
key; Henry Millon, dean of the Center for Advanced
Studies in the Visual Arts of the National Gallery of Art;
Congressman Norman Y. Mineta (D—California); Cyn-
thia Polsky, distinguished collector of South Asian art;
Professor Edith Porada of Columbia University; Gillian
Sackler, president of the Arthur M. Sackler Foundation
for the Arts, Sciences, and Humanities; Professor
Yoshiaki Shimizu of Princeton University; Professor
Seymour Slive of Harvard; and Michael Sonnenreich, a
director and the legal counsel for the Sackler Founda-
tion.

The final major shipment of Sackler objects for the
permanent collection arrived in late July, and a group of
twenty-three ancient Near Eastern objects were trans-
ferred to the Sackler from the Hirshhorn Museum and
Sculpture Garden. The gallery also received its first gift
from a living Japanese artist, a series of six woodblock
prints by Fumio Kitaoka. Six other contemporary Japa-
nese woodblock prints, gifts of Donna Saunders of Ports-
mouth, New Hampshire, and a contemporary ceramic
jar from the MYC of Tokyo (a cultural exchange insti-
tute) were also added to the Japanese collection. An im-
portant Kalpasutra manuscript from western India dated
1411 was given by Mr. and Mrs. Charles Page of San
Francisco.

Staff members explored possibilities for future exhibi-
tions exchanges with Nobuyoshi Yamamoto and Yuichi
Hiroi, director and assistant director, respectively, of the
Fine Arts Division of the Japanese Agency for Cultural
Affairs; Hayato Ogo, assistant director of the Exhibi-
tions Division of the Japan Foundation; Masao Ito, dep-
uty director of the New York office of the Japan Founda-
tion; and Makato Hinei, a cultural officer of the
Embassy of Japan.

Freer Gallery of Art
The curatorial staff introduced the public to the growing

collection of the art of writing in a major cross-cultural
exhibition and publication, From Concept to Context:

97
Approaches to Asian and Islamic Calligraphy, which
opened on July 29.

The exhibition was the museum’s first comprehensive
look at an art which, in Asia and the Near East, is con-
sidered to represent the pinnacle of creative achievement.
The 165-page catalogue was written by the three exhibi-
tion organizers: Dr. Shen Fu, curator of Chinese art, Dr.
Glenn Lowry, curator of Near Eastern art, and Ann Yon-
emura, assistant curator of Japanese art. The exhibition
was planned to coincide with the Twenty-Sixth Interna-
tional Congress of the History of Art held in Washing-
ton.

Japanese exhibitions in the past year included the fol-
lowing. Meisho-e and Screens of Landscapes and Fa-
mous Places both featured representations of well-known
Japanese landmarks. Scholar-Painters of the Nanga
School featured a group of eighteenth- and nineteenth-
century artists who admired and emulated the qualities
of Chinese painting. Garden Potteries and Official Kilns:
Clan-sponsored Ceramics in the Edo Period included
thirty-eight ceramic objects made under the direct spon-
sorship of feudal lords. And Literary Themes in Japanese
Art illustrated interpretations of themes from Japanese
literature.

Chinese Bird and Flower Paintings featured subject
matter favored by Chinese artists through many centu-
ries.

Wonders of Creation, Oddities of Existence: An Exhi-
bition in Celebration of Halley’s Comet offered opportu-
nities to examine Near Eastern attitudes toward the cos-
mos from the thirteenth through the eighteenth centuries.

The Gods of Indian Asia included sculptural and
painted images of Buddhist and Hindu deities from the
Indian subcontinent and Indonesia.

Exhibitions from the American collection included Ar-
rangement in Yellow and Gold, a selection of works by
James McNeill Whistler, and nineteen paintings by
Thomas Wilmer Dewing.

Among the lectures in the thirty-third annual series
was the John A. Pope Memorial Lecture, “Sixteenth-
Century Ogama Ceramics from Seto and Mino,’ by
Rupert Faulkner of the Victoria and Albert Museum,
London. Other lectures included “Life in Ancient Japan:
Treasures from Recent Excavations,” cosponsored with
the Embassy of Japan and delivered by Richard Pearson
of the University of British Columbia, and the Ruther-
ford J. Gettens Memorial Lecture, “East and West: Cli-
mates for Oriental Art,’ by Robert M. Organ, former
director of the Smithsonian Conservation Analytical Lab-
oratory.

98

Notable additions to the permanent collection included
three works of Japanese calligraphy; a Chinese pottery
ewer from the Warring States period (481-221 B.C.) given
by Dr. James D. and Mrs. Ann S. Ling of Potomac,
Maryland; a nineteenth-century Chinese wooden bird-
cage with twenty-nine accessories in lacquer and
ceramic, a gift in memory of Isabelle Ingram Mayer from
Robert H. Ellsworth of New York City; Chinese and
Japanese ceramics and Chinese lacquer from Elizabeth
Gordon Norcross of Adamstown, Maryland; and a gift
of Chinese K’ang Hsi period (1662-1722) blue-and-white
porcelains for the Peacock Room from the Mary Living-
ston Griggs and Mary Griggs Burke Foundation.

Among the purchases made in 1986 were a Shang dy-
nasty Chinese bronze vessel of the chiieh type from the
first-half of the second millennium B.c.; two eighteenth-
century Rajput paintings from India; four examples of
Chinese calligraphy; and a sixteenth-century Chinese in-
laid lacquer tray.

The Boston architectural firm of Shepley, Bulfinch,
Richardson and Abbott continued to work toward a de-
sign that will eventually link the Freer with the Arthur
M. Sackler Gallery and expand and renovate the techni-
cal laboratory, exhibitions space, and collections storage
at the Freer.
Conservation Analytical
Laboratory

Concerned with all aspects of the conservation, technical
study, and analysis of museum objects and related mate-
rials, the Conservation Analytical Laboratory (CAL) op-
erates interrelated programs in archaeometry, conserva-
tion science, conservation treatment, and conservation
training and information. While research and develop-
ment activities are emphasized, CAL also provides advice
and assistance to museum professionals in the Institution
and outside museums, as well as information to the gen-
eral public.

In the archaeometry program, the highly successful
results obtained in the two major projects for long-term
concentration of archaeological research were gratifying.
The study of yellow firing Hopi ceramics made great
progress, and the results have attracted a sizable number
of requests for collaborative projects in American South-
west archaeology. Similarly, the work on ceramics from
the Helmand and Indus Valley civilizations was so suc-
cessful that Italian and French archaeologists working on
this subject in this Middle Eastern area have expressed
the wish for further formalized cooperative
arrangements.

For these projects and a number of other ceramics
provenance studies, including the ongoing work on
Spanish and American majolica, a total of 1,400 trace
element characterizations, using neutron activation ana-
lysis, were performed at the CAL facility at the National
Bureau of Standards (NBS) research reactor. The collab-
orative program with NBS on lead isotope analysis con-
centrated on Chinese bronze vessels from the Sackler col-
lection. Analyses performed on 185 vessels from the
Shang and Zhou periods yielded highly interesting results
which were reported at a conference in China in fall
1986. Another collaborative project with NBS, the auto-
radiography of paintings, continued studying works by
Thomas W. Dewing, while a new study of the oeuvre of
Albert P. Ryder was started. Another new project got
under way in which CAL’ excellent facilities for organic
chemical analysis are utilized for the characterization and
identification of natural resins used in Southeast Asia on
ethnographic artifacts. Studies on ancient and historic
technologies concentrated on a variety of subjects, in-
cluding Korean celadons and Chinese red glazes, Islamic
frit wares, Neolithic plasters from the Middle East, In-
dian bronze mirrors, and seventeenth- and eighteenth-
century music wire.

Postdoctoral fellows in materials analysis studied the
developments in ironworking technology in Britain dur-
ing the Roman period, and the composition and technol-
ogy of western Mediterranean Islamic ceramics. The

The Conservation Analytical Laboratory’s special facility at the
National Bureau of Standards research reactor is used for
neutron-activated autoradiography of paintings.

Smithsonian Archaeometry Research Collections and
Records data base continued to be developed but already
proved its great utility for archaeological research
through the number of short- and long-term visitors who
come to work with it. A week-long workshop at CAL of
Costa Rican and American anthropologists—centered
around investigations of ceramic production and distri-
bution in the Greater Nicoya area of Costa Rica—
proved highly successful because of the immediate avail-
ability of the research data base.

In conservation science, an important initiative was
the joint project—with the Getty Conservation Institute
and the Canadian Conservation Institute—on the effects
of fumigants, commonly used for insect control, on the
materials of museum objects. Another new study investi-
gates the validity of accelerated aging of paper, often
used in studies of relative stabilities of different papers or
the long-term effects of certain conservation treatments.
Studies of heat and moisture transport in the walls of
various museum buildings continued to yield increased
understanding of the interaction between climate control
installations and the stability of building fabrics. The
first phase of a project exploring the humidity-induced
dimensional changes in woodwind instruments during
playing was completed; it is expected that possible pre-
ventive measures will be investigated next. Research con-

99

tinued on the effects of washing treatments of aged pa-
pers and on the effects of light bleaching of discolored
paper under various conditions. Other research included
the effects of weighting of silk and the removal of latex
backings from carpets. In support of conservation in
Smithsonian museums and bureaus, a number of small
projects were undertaken to identify materials or deterio-
ration products and to advise on the suitability of mod-
ern materials for use in storage or exhibition. In the con-
servation treatment program, work on a number of
diverse objects from Smithsonian collections not only
served to support conservation efforts around the Institu-
tion, but often involved the development and experimen-
tal application of new treatment techniques. Of special
interest is the work on the consolidation, excavation,
and restoration of a group of Neolithic plaster statues
from Jordan, and the on-site support extended to the
archaeological team working at the important site of
Harappa.

CAUs conservation training program saw the success-
ful implementation of a new initiative to train furniture
conservators in a program combining intensive course
work and home study. Of the seventy-five craftspeople
who applied for the first class, seven were selected and
are expected to be graduated after four years of study.
The series of advanced specialist courses was continued,
with courses on such subjects as analysis of historic tex-
tile dyes, conservation of carved wooden surfaces, and
insect control in textile collections. CAL also continued
to host conservation interns at various levels of training
and experience. A number of these interns came from
other countries, including Canada, Belgium, West Ger-
many, and Venezuela. The public conservation informa-
tion program answered about thirty inquiries per week
from conservation professionals from other institutions
and from the general public. The present effort of trans-
ferring CALs information files into the international
Conservation Information Network, which will allow the
laboratory on-line access to this new specialized data
base, is part of a collaborative project with the Getty
Conservation Institute and the Canadian Heritage Infor-
mation Network.

100

Cooper-Hewitt Museum

October 6, 1986, marked the tenth anniversary of the
Cooper-Hewitt’s rebirth as the Smithsonian’s National
Museum of Design. Acquired by the Smithsonian in
1967, the world-renowned collection of decorative art
objects, textiles, wall coverings, drawings, and prints
was made part of the Cooper Union for the Advance-
ment of Science and Art in 1897.

A proposed expansion project will provide critically
needed space for program offerings. Hardy Holzman
Pfeiffer Associates, the architectural firm that restored
the Carnegie Mansion, which houses the Cooper-Hewitt,
was selected for the expansion project. The National
Campaign Committee, started last year as part of the
expansion project, has increased in size. And the Profes-
sional Committee—which includes such leading designers
and architects as Mario Buatta, Mary McFadden, Rich-
ard Meier, and Lella Vignelli—has also pledged its ef-
forts to the expansion project.

Golden Eye: An International Tribute to the Artisans
of India, a major component of the yearlong Festival of
India, brought to this museum objects designed by eleven
Western designers and crafted by artisans in India. Other
exhibitions with an international dimension were The
Modern Spirit: Glass from Finland; Toys from the Nu-
remberg Spielzeug Museum; Treasures from Hungary:
Gold and Silver from the Ninth to the Nineteenth Cen-
tury; and Memphis/Milano, featuring the design style
developed by a consortium of international designers
who call themselves “Memphis.”

Several exhibitions provided a setting for objects in the
museum’s collections. Items for travel were included in
Bon Voyage: Designs for Travel. Playing Cards, which
presented a historical overview of the subject, and Ad-
vertising America both drew heavily upon the collection.
The Cooper-Hewitt premiered the first exhibition ever
devoted to the life and work of one of modern ballet’s
most creative women, the Russian-born Bronislava
Nijinska. And Embroidered Ship Portraits, the first ma-
jor American exhibition to feature this nineteenth-
century folk art, was planned as a tribute to the tall
ships participating in the Statue of Liberty centennial
celebration.

The J. M. Kaplan Foundation gave $100,000 to help
underwrite museum publications on architecture. Two
new titles were added to the Cooper-Hewitt’s bibliogra-

The Cooper-Hewitt Museum’s Great Hall was transformed into
an Indian “street” by Sir Hugh Casson with Rajeev Sethi for the
exhibition Golden Eye: An International Tribute to the Artisans
of India.
phy: the exhibition catalogue Bon Voyage: Designs for
Travel and Theater Designs in the Collection of the
Cooper-Hewitt Museum, bringing to twenty-one the
number of titles in this series on the museum’s major col-
lections. The Amsterdam School: Dutch Expressionist
Architecture, 1915-1930, published by MIT Press, was
also issued in German by Deutsche Verlags-Anstalt. In
addition, the museum collaborated with the Hungarian
National Museum and the Nuremberg Spielzeug Mu-
seum in the preparation of publications for Treasures of
Hungary: Gold and Silver from the Ninth to Nineteenth
Century and Toys from the Nuremberg Spielzeug Mu-
seum. The museum’s fifteen-volume Illustrated Library of
Antiques continued to sell well through the Book-of-the-
Month Club, and two books from the Immovable Ob-
jects series, Cities and Urban Open Spaces, have become
standard reading in architecture and urban studies pro-
grams in American and foreign universities. The New

102

York State Conservation Consultancy, which was estab-
lished at the Cooper-Hewitt with a grant from the New
York State Council on the Arts, continues to publish bul-
letins on the care of collections of fine and decorative
arts.

The museum’s Masters Degree Program, which gradu-
ated its third class this spring, is the only museum pro-
gram in the world to train young professionals in the
study of European decorative arts. One former student,
an assistant curator of American art at the Philadelphia
Museum of Art, had an expanded version of her master’s
thesis published by the University Press of Virginia in
fall 1986. The Helena Rubinstein Foundation again pro-
vided $10,000 for scholarships.

The museum continued to offer courses for college
credit through Parsons School of Design/The New
School and classes and workshops for the general public.
More than ninety lectures, weekend seminars, walking
tours, and workshops were offered on topics such as En-
glish decorative arts, great American cities, and design in
the 1950s. More than thirty interns were trained in al-
most every department of the museum. The Sidney and
Celia Siegel Fellowship program sponsored five paid in-
terns, and a grant from the New York State Council on
the Arts paid for a ten-month intern in the textile conser-
vation department. Smithsonian funds made a minority
intern position possible.

Major acquisitions this past year included the Robert
L. Metzenberg collection of 283 pieces of antique cutlery
dating from the sixteenth through the nineteenth centu-
ries, and a framed classical garden watercolor by the
Dutch landscape artist Isaac de Moucheron, a gift of
Mrs. Christian Aall through the Port Royal Foundation.
The museum also purchased a “Carlton” sideboard de-
signed by the Memphis artist Ettore Sottsass, Jr. Pro-
ceeds from the Decorative Arts Committee’s benefit din-
ner for Mrs. Henry Parish II allowed the purchase of
two wallpaper sample books used originally by French
firms in the 1820s.

During the past year, a series of think-tank conferences
was held with prominent design professionals to discuss
issues of both theoretical and practical significance to the
museum. Plans for further conferences are under way as
the Cooper-Hewitt looks ahead to an exciting future.

The Scottish thistle was used as the inspiration for this commem-
orative gilt-bronze goblet made for Andrew Carnegie by Tiffany
and Company, circa 1907. The goblet was added to the Cooper-
Hewitt Collection, now housed in a building that was once
Andrew Carnegie’s home.
Hirshhorn Museum and
Sculpture Garden

The Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, a major
museum of modern and contemporary art, maintained
an active exhibition schedule and acquisitions program
this fiscal year. Related films, lectures, concerts, sympo-
sia, tours, and other educational activities supported
these programs. The museum’s departments of conserva-
tion, registration, photography, and the reference library
continued to offer technical support to staff and schol-
ars.

The first major exhibition of this fiscal year, A New
Romanticism: Sixteen Artists from Italy, October 3,
1985—January 5, 1986, was organized by former curator
Howard N. Fox. The exhibition was the first in America
to focus on the romantic, spiritual impulse of recent Ital-
ian art and featured works by sixteen artists. (Tour:
Akron Art Museum, Ohio, January 28—April 6, 1986.)
Selections from the Collection of Marion and Gustave
Ring, October 17, 1985—January 12, 1986, consisted of
fifty works from the collection of these longtime friends
of the museum, both of whom died in 1983. Among Eu-
ropean modernists represented in the exhibition were
Ernst Barlach, Edgar Degas, Henri Matisse, Giorgio
Morandi, Max Pechstein, Odilon Redon, and Edouard
Vuillard. Such American masters as Milton Avery, Stuart
Davis, Richard Diebenkorn, and Adolph Gottlieb were
also represented.

Directions 1986, February 6—March 30, 1986, was the
fourth in a series of group shows initiated by the mu-
seum in 1979 to focus on common concerns, attitudes, or
stylistic developments in contemporary art. Curator
Phyllis Rosenzweig chose thirty-six works organized into
two sections: “Painting into Nature,” with works by
Alice Fellows, Peter Fleps, Melissa Miller, and Yolanda
Shashaty; and “Toward the Baroque,’ in which Robert
Morris, Hope Sandrow, Frank Stella, and James Turrell
were represented. Robert Arneson: A Retrospective,
April 30—-July 6, 1986, organized by the Des Moines Art
Center, was the California sculptor’s first major museum
show on the East Coast. The seventy works in the exhi-
bition documented the artist’s career—from early humor-
Ous pieces to current works in which the theme is nu-
clear war. The original exhibition and national tour were
supported by grants from the Anna K. Meredith Endow-
ment Fund, the National Endowment for the Arts, and
John and Mary Pappajohn. Selections from the Joseph
H. Hirshhorn Bequest, August 7-November 16, 1986,
was chosen from the more than 5,300 objects bequeathed
to the museum by Mr. Hirshhorn in 1981. The eighty-
five paintings and sculptures and fifty-three works on
paper included pieces by such European and American

NG

-S

Among the notable acquisitions of the Hirshhorn Museum this
year was Jean Dubuffet’s Hunt for the Two-Horned Creature,
1963, acquired through the Joseph H. Hirshhorn Purchase Fund.

masters as George Bellows, Fernando Botero, Mary Cas-
satt, Willem de Kooning, Arshile Gorky, Joan Miro,
Henry Moore, Malcolm Morley, Georgia O’Keeffe, Pa-
blo Picasso, and Gino Severini.

Smaller exhibitions included Relief Sculpture: Selec-
tions from the Museum’s Collection, January 28—April
13, 1986, organized by Judith Zilczer, associate curator.
Frank Gettings, curator of prints and drawings, orga-
nized two shows: Fantasies and Allegories: Prints and
Drawings from the Museum’s Collection, December 11,
1985—March 26, 1986; and Interiors: Prints and Drawings

from the Museum’s Collection, March 26—July 28, 1986.

Mr. Gettings also organized two small shows of works
on paper from the museum’s collection for the Smithson-
ian Castle. Surrealist Art: Selections from the Hirshhorn
Museum and Sculpture Garden, an exhibition of fifty-
seven works chosen by Valerie Fletcher, associate curator,
was organized by the Smithsonian Institution Traveling
Exhibition Service for a national tour through March
1987. A catalogue with an essay by Ms. Fletcher accom-
panied the show.

In addition to creating its own exhibitions, the mu-
seum also lent 192 objects to fifty-seven institutions this
fiscal year. Among the works lent were four paintings by
Franz Kline to the Cincinnati Art Musem for The Vital
Gesture: Franz Kline in Retrospect; four works by Jacob

103
Early in 1986, after the Joseph H. Hirshhorn Bequest brought
eleven duplicate sculptures to the Hirshhorn Museum’s perma-
nent collection, these two casts of Henry Moore’s Seated Figure,
1956-57, were photographed side by side in the museum’s sculp-
ture garden. The work in the background was later offered for
sale.

Lawrence to the Seattle Art Museum for Jacob Law-
rence, American Painter; and five paintings to the High
Museum of Art in Atlanta for The Advent of Modern-
ism: Post-Impressionism in North American Art,
1900-1918, co-curated by Judith Zilczer. The museum
also made significant loans to a number of foreign
shows, including Futurismo e Futurismi at the Palazzo
Grassi, Venice; Naivety in Art at the Setagaya Art Mu-
seum, Tokyo; Oskar Kokoschka at the Tate Gallery, Lon-
don; and Europe-America: The History of an Artistic
Fascination since 1940 at the Museum Ludwig, Cologne.
The education department continued to bring the mu-
seum’s exhibitions and permanent collection alive for
audiences ranging from elementary school children to
senior citizens. With ninety docents, the department con-
ducted tours for more than 15,000 visitors. The Women’s

104

Committee of the Smithsonian Associates partially
funded a two-day symposium for docents, “Pulse: A Prac-
ticum on Current Ideas and Approaches in Museum Ed-
ucation.” “Currents,” a seminar for high school juniors
from the Washington, D.C., area, was initiated. Its first
focus was A New Romanticism, the Italian painting ex-
hibition; the second session was devoted to the Robert
Arneson retrospective. The summer intern program con-
tinued with three undergraduate students. Regularly
scheduled free films about artists, films by artist-
filmmakers, and a special program of films for young
people were vital aspects of the museum’s outreach to
the public.

As part of an ongoing program to realign the late
Joseph H. Hirshhorn’s private collection to make it more
suitable for a public institution, the board of trustees
directed that thirty-five works of art, including a number
of duplicate casts of sculptures, be sold at auction. In
accordance with the original understanding with Mr.
Hirshhorn, the proceeds from these sales will be used
solely for future acquisitions.

In addition to the works from Mr. Hirshhorn’s
bequest, which were accessioned in 1986, the museum’s
permanent collection was enriched by eighteen gifts and
twelve purchases. Included were a larger-than-life ce-
ramic bust, Elvis, 1978, by Robert Arneson; Richard
Diebenkorn’s painting Berkeley Number 22, 1954; Jean
Dubuffet’s The Hunt for the Two-Horned Creature,
1963; Anselm Keifer’s The Book, 1985; Soft Engine for
Airflow, with Fan and Transmission, 1966, the museum’s
first soft sculpture by Claes Oldenburg; and Quaqua!
Attaccati la!, 1985, a relief painting by Frank Stella.
National Air and Space
Museum

July 1, 1986, marked the tenth anniversary of the open-
ing of the National Air and Space Museum (NASM).
During this remarkable decade more than 105 million
people have visited NASM, making it the most popular
museum in the world. New research efforts encompass-
ing publications, exhibitions, collections, and education
highlight the contributions of the museum toward the
Smithsonian’s goal to increase public awareness of avia-
tion and space exploration. It is fitting that after ten
years, the museum continues to be a leader in aviation
and space historical research.

This year a new Program for the History of Space Sci-
ence was developed in cooperation with Johns Hopkins
University. Research staff from the Office of the Associ-
ate Director of Research and the Space Science and Ex-
ploration Department worked jointly with faculty mem-
bers of Johns Hopkins to document the history of
ultraviolet astronomy. This included a major study of the
origins of the Hubble Space Telescope, as well as devel-
oping undergraduate and graduate degree programs in
the history of space-related science and technology. Addi-
tional support was received from the National Aeronau-
tics and Space Administration (NASA) and the National
Science Foundation.

Two other notable programs involving the history of
science and technology were begun. The Glennan-Webb-
Seamans Fund for Research in Space History was estab-
lished to support the study of historical aspects of the
management, scientific, and engineering issues associated
with the development of the nation’s space program. The
Space Science and Exploration Department received sup-
port from the Sloan Foundation for an exploratory video-
history program to aid research and historical documen-
tation programs now under way in the Smithsonian
Institution.

Dr. Leo Goldberg occupied the Martin Marietta Chair
in Space History. Dr. Goldberg performed detailed his-
torical research into aspects of his career with the inter-
national astronomical community, the Orbiting Solar
Observatory, as well as his contributions to understand-
ing the physics of the solar atmosphere. In addition,
Guggenheim Postdoctoral Fellow Charles Zeigler studied
the history of cosmic ray physics.

The museum continued to expand its role as an inter-
national center for study of the history of flight with the
selection of three scholars from other nations to conduct
historical research. General Pierre Lissarrague—pilot,
educator, historian, and former director of the Musée de
PAir et de !Espace near Paris—occupied the Charles A.
Lindbergh Chair of Aerospace History. General Lissar-

rague studied early experimental flight to learn how
technology and science interacted to achieve mechanical
flight. Peter W. Brooks of Great Britain, a respected au-
thor of several aviation publications and a specialist in
analyzing aircraft structures and performance, became
the first International Fellow. He researched the history
of the autogiro and its contribution to the later develop-
ment of the helicopter. Verville Fellow N. Kivanc Hur-
turk, who has worked in the field of commercial avia-
tion as a writer and editor, performed considerable
research on Turkish aviation from rg11 to the present.

js &

SS —_

A popular attraction for visitors to the National Air and Space
Museum is the model replica of the pterodactyl Ouetzalcoatlus
northropi, the largest creature ever to fly. The pterodactyl, which
lived 65 million years ago, was reconstructed to star in the muse-
um’s new film On the Wing, which explores the history of flight.

105
Research that will produce a history of the airlines of
Asia progressed throughout the year. Liaison with Chi-
nese authorities continued in the development of a coop-
erative program to produce a book on the history of air
transport in China.

At NASM’s Center for Earth and Planetary Studies
(CEPS), basic research on the use of remote sensing of
terrestrial and planetary surface features continued with
emphasis on desert regions of Earth and structural land-
forms on Mars. Analysis of satellite images of the west-
ern African country of Mali concentrated on determining
changes that took place in the region over a nine-year
period. Analysis of digital Landsat data for the Inland
Niger delta region revealed a significant reduction in the
area of surface water. This research was documented by
fieldwork and samples taken in 1985.

Investigations using satellite data of the hyperarid
desert core in the western desert of Egypt and northern
Sudan continued in 1986 with the mapping of sand sheet
deposits in the area where the Space Shuttle Radar Ex-
periment revealed buried drainage patterns. The investi-
gations revealed that these channels were the last areas
of human habitation in the region and dated back to the
Neolithic age.

Planetary research concentrated on several new ways
for analysis of Viking orbital data of Mars. Using indi-
vidual images of the surface of the planet taken through
different wavelength filters, multispectral data were used
to map compositional variations on the planet. Mapping
of structural features also continued, using newly devel-
oped computer methods together with the initiation of a
new study of terrestrial analogs of planetary surface fea-
tures in the Columbia Plateau of Washington.

The research program progressed with the publication
of several new works by museum authors. The Aeronau-
tics Department continued widely diversified programs of
research and writing, producing a number of new publi-
cations. Gatchina Days: Reminiscences of a Russian Pi-
lot, the diary of Alexander Riaboff edited by Dr. Von
Hardesty, provided a rare look at the aeronautical scene
in Russia during the turbulent years of the revolution
and civil war. Images of Flight: The Aviation Photogra-
phy of Rudy Arnold, by E. T. Wooldridge, offers a first-
time look at the world of Rudy Arnold, one of the pre-
mier aviation photographers of the 1920s and rg94os.
Frances Kianka’s translation of A History of French Mili-
tary Aviation, written by Lindbergh Professor Pierre Lis-
sarrague and Charles Christienne, was also published.

Historical research and writing continued in the Space
Science and Exploration Department in many areas, in-

106

cluding the origins of space science in the V-2 era, early
scientific satellite proposals, the Apollo-Soyuz program,
early meteorological satellites, the evolution of space suit
technology, and the planetary science community’s asso-
ciation with the Hubble Space Telescope Project. The
Space Astronomy Oral History Project Catalog was re-
printed. In addition, the curatorial departments collabo-
rated in producing the National Air and Space Museum
Research Report 1985.

Museum books received several awards this year. The
National Air and Space Museum Research Report 1985
and United States Women in Aviation 1930-1939 received
Awards of Excellence from the Washington Chapter of
the Society for Technical Communication (STC); the
NASM Publications Catalog and Focus on Flight: The
Aviation Photography of Hans Groenhoff received
Awards of Merit from the STC. The National Air and
Space Museum Research Report 1985 also received a
second-place award from the National Association of
Government Communicators in the 1986 Blue Pencil
Competition.

Another highlight of a productive publishing year was
the launching of Air & Space/Smithsonian magazine in
April. Patterned after the successful Smithsonian maga-
zine and designed with a perceptible kinship to the latter,
Air & Space/Smithsonian was designed for the lay
reader with a curiosity about the varied enterprises and
sciences that relate to flight in all its forms.

With a view toward exploiting the vast potential of
the National Aeronautical Collection as a teaching aid, a
series of lectures based on objects in the collection were
developed in cooperation with the museum’s Office of
University Programs. Formal classroom lectures on avia-
tion history and basic aerodynamics, given by museum
staff and visiting fellows, will provide the necessary
background for students to understand the history and
technological development of the objects. An abbreviated
course was conducted in July 1986 with selected mem-
bers of the Wellesley College faculty. A two-week course
for Wellesley students will be conducted in January 1987.

The museum continued its commitment to cooperative
programs by joining the Massachusetts Institute of Tech-
nology in a venture to recreate the mythical flight of
Daedalus from the island of Crete to the mainland of
Greece with a man-powered aircraft. A feasibility study
was completed in April, and rollout of the prototype air-
craft occurred in September. The recreation of the flight
is anticipated in 1987.

Underscoring the importance of public education
through exhibitions, the museum opened a major gallery
On November 18, 1985, the Space Shuttle Orbiter Enterprise made its last flight aboard a 747 carrier aircraft before landing at Washing-
ton Dulles International Airport. At a ceremony on December 6, the Enterprise was officially transferred to the National Air and Space
Museum collections from the National Aeronautics and Space Administration. |

and produced a series of other significant displays. Look-
ing at Earth draws on the expertise of CEPS in the field
of remote sensing. This new gallery illustrates the many
ways man has viewed Earth, from cameras carried by
pigeons, to remote sensing devices carried by satellites.
Major artifacts include the World War I vintage de Havil-
land DH-4, the Lockheed U-2, as well as TIROS I, the
world’s first weather satellite, and the GOES meteoro-
logical satellite. A smaller complementary exhibition,
Earth Views, opened in the Flight and the Arts gallery.

An important aeronautical exhibition was dedicated to
the distinguished career of Leroy R. Grumman, gifted
aeronautical engineer and founder of the Grumman Cor-
poration. The highlight of the exhibition was a restored
F6F-3 Hellcat carrier fighter of World War II fame. The
Grumman exhibition served as the centerpiece for the
museum’s activities commemorating the seventy-fifth an-
niversary of U.S. naval aviation in 1986. An exhibit in
the Hall of Air Transportation commemorated the fifti-
eth anniversary of air traffic control in the United States.

Voyager: Around the World Without a Pit Stop traced
the planning, design, and construction of Voyager. This
unique aircraft, constructed of lightweight composite
materials, will carry Dick Rutan and Jeana Yeager
around the world nonstop, without refueling.

Additions to major galleries included a new space food
exhibit in Apollo to the Moon. Also, the coveralls and
helmet worn by Senator E. J. “Jake” Garn, the first U.S.
congressman in space, were added in the Space Hall
along with a Shuttle Portable On-Board Computer. Ex-
ploring Comets, an addition to the Exploring the Planets
gallery, took the visitor through the steps taken by scien-
tists in observing and exploring comets.

Exhibitions were produced with the cooperation of
outside sponsors. Ariane and Arianespace: International
Launch Resources, sponsored by Arianespace, Inc.,
showed the capabilities of Ariane 4 LP, the latest in the
series of launch vehicles. An Acrobatic Satellite: The
Three Lives of ICE, celebrating the first visit of a space-
craft to a comet, was sponsored by NASA’s Goddard
Space Flight Center. The Space Science Series, 1986,
funded by NASA, consisted of television monitors dis-
playing press coverage obtained by satellite of current
space-related events. Bell Helicopter Textron provided a
model of the Bell XV-22 Osprey Tiltrotor which com-
bines helicopter vertical takeoff and hovering capabilities
with fixed wing speed.

A significant expansion of the NASM artifact collec-
tion was made possible by the acquisition of the Space
Shuttle Enterprise. This atmospheric test vehicle will

107
Israeli Prime Minister Shimon Peres visited the National Air and
Space Museum on September 15, 1986, with Vice President
George Bush. The two leaders were particularly interested in
viewing the Grumman F6F Hellcat in the museum’s Pioneers of
Flight gallery.

serve as a centerpiece for the proposed museum annex at
Washington Dulles International airport. Other new
space artifacts received included the Homing Overlay
Experiment, the Hubble Space Telescope Structural Dy-
namic Test Vehicle, and a full-scale model of the Track-
ing and Data Relay Satellite.

During the course of the year, several important air-
craft were added to the holdings of the museum. A
Soviet-designed MiG-15 was obtained from the People’s
Republic of China; and a flyable World War II North
American B-25 medium bomber was acquired. A
Nieuport 28, America’s first combat aircraft in World
War I, and the oldest Curtiss flying boat extant, a Model
F, rounded out an extremely successful year. In addition,
restoration work was completed on Smith IV, the mu-
seum ’s rare French-built World War I SPAD XIII fighter.

The space suit collection was evaluated, with both
preservation and collection items identified, and physical
reorganization of the collection began, assisted in part by
a new storage and workroom. Basic preservation tasks
were performed on the Space Shuttle Enterprise to en-
sure the craft’s condition in outside storage.

108

A project to catalog all U.S. artifacts currently on the
surface of the moon is also under way. The goal is to
provide the information required by NASA and other
agencies to adopt a policy for preserving and respecting
the historical significance of those items before the
United States returns to the moon.

During 1986, NASM’s Information Management Divi-
sion established the National Air and Space Archives, a
national center for research into aerospace history. The
archives is expected to become a clearinghouse for infor-
mation on the museum’s own collections, as well as col-
lections available at non-Smithsonian facilities. The mu-
seum staff accessioned 118 new collections during 1986
and hired its first archivist to improve intellectual control
of collections already in custody.

The museum has been a leader in the uses of analog
videodisc technology for the storage and retrieval of pho-
tographic collections. During 1986, NASM Videodise 3
was released containing 100,000 photos belonging to the
U.S. Air Force. With the completion of NASM Video-
disc 4, scheduled for early 1987, the USAF’s entire collec-
tion of pre-1954 historical still photos will be available
on videodisc. In addition, the first phase of a pilot
project to copy the Wernher von Braun papers at NASA's
Alabama Space and Rocket Center, using NASM’s Sys-
tem for Digital Display was completed.

During the year, the museum offered, free to the pub-
lic, ten General Electric aviation lectures, twelve
Monthly Sky lectures, six Exploring Space lectures, the
annual Wernher von Braun lecture by remote sensing ex-
pert John McElroy, the annual Lindbergh lecture deliv-
ered by Senator Barry Goldwater, seven aviation films,
seven space fiction films, and three symposia. In addi-
tion, special lectures were held to commemorate the
twenty-fifth anniversary of manned space flight, Black
History Month, and Hispanic Heritage Week.

The museum launched a major campaign to save the
aviation portion of Movietone newsreel footage. The
sponsors—NASM and the University of South Carolina—
need to raise $550,000 to transfer the irreplaceable
footage, currently stored on hazardous nitrate- based
film, to safety film.

The Samuel P. Langley Theater continues to be a pop-
ular attraction. Since opening day, the theater has at-
tracted 16,500,000 visitors. On June 21, 1986, the mu-
seum opened the new IMAX film, On The Wing, which
dramatizes the similarities between mechanical and natu-
ral flight and includes flying scenes of the model ptero-
dactyl, Quetzalcoatlus northropi. Vice President and
Mrs. Bush were among the distinguished guests attend-
ing the June 19 premiere.

Comet Ouest has been the museum’s most popular
planetarium show to date. The staff of the Albert Ein-
stein Planetarium created a special Halley’s comet curric-
ulum guide in conjunction with the American Associa-
tion for the Advancement of Science. The Planetarium
also hosted “Comet Quest: An International Sympo-
sium,” on December 5 and 6. An interim Planetarium
program entitled Summertime opened in May.

This year saw an expanded program of training for
168 docents, including thirty-five new volunteers. The
museum made greater use of behind-the-scene volunteers
to assist in research, collections management, and exhi-
bition activities. A program of training young people
interested in museum careers included twenty high
school and college interns during the year.

Walter J. Boyne resigned his position as director on
August 19, 1986. Dr. James C. Taylor, associate director
of the Smithsonian’s National Museum of Natural His-
tory, was appointed as acting director of the National
Air and Space Museum. An advisory committee has been
formed to assist Secretary Robert McC. Adams select a
new director for the museum.

National Museum Act

The National Museum Act was established by Congress
in 1966 to enable the Smithsonian, through an annual
appropriation, to provide assistance to the museum com-
munity specifically in the areas of professional training
and research or special studies on museum-related issues.
The emphasis has been on projects that are technical in
nature and that have broad applicability (support for
interpretive exhibitions or for the operating expenses of
individual institutions is available from other sources of
federal funds). Over the years, priority has been given to
projects involving the care and preservation of collec-
tions in museums of all types. The Advisory Council,
which meets after each deadline, reviewed 182 proposals
for fiscal year 1986 funds and recommended fifty-one
awards totaling $629,199. Of that number, 60 percent
concerned training and research in conservation.

This year, awards for professional training—which are
intended to raise the level of available expertise in the
museum field—were made to academic institutions, to
museums capable of providing exceptional opportunities
through a yearlong internship, and to beginning or prac-
ticing conservators for short- or long-term courses.
Awards for seminars on controlling the environment of
storage and exhibition areas in museums were made to
two regional organizations with experience in effectively
disseminating information to their constituents. Awards
in the research category primarily involved technical is-
sues in conservation and covered a broad range of mate-
rials, including archaeological artifacts, paintings, silk
fabrics, and works of art on paper. Grants were made to
two national associations for programs that provide con-
sultant services either to historical agencies or to muse-
ums with collections related to African American culture;
another award will support the revision of a standard
reference work on cataloguing collections.

109
National Museum of

African Art

One chapter in the National Museum of African Art’s
history ended and another began on June 15, 1986. The
museum was closed to the public so that the staff could
begin moving from the museum on Capitol Hill to the
new quadrangle complex on the National Mall. During
1986, the museum added significant objects to its collec-
tion, opened twelve staff positions, commenced research
for future publications, and designed innovative educa-
tional programs for people of all ages.

Dr. Christraud Geary, a research associate at the Bos-
ton University African Studies Center, was selected for
this year’s Rockefeller Foundation Residency Program in
the Humanities. Dr. Geary’s appointment was made pos-
sible through a residence fellowship program adminis-
tered by the Smithsonian Office of Fellowships and
Grants.

In the past year, the museum added sixty-three works
of art to its collection, including fourteen objects
acquired through gift, twenty-six objects acquired
through purchase, and twenty-three objects—twenty-two
Benin bronzes (Nigeria) and a Bamana (Mali) iron
staff—transferred from the Hirshhorn Museum and
Sculpture Garden. The museum acquired, with trust
funds, a second group of twenty-two works from a pri-
vate European collection. In addition, 135 non-African
materials were transferred from the museum to the Na-
tional Museum of American History and the National
Museum of Natural History.

Particularly noteworthy gifts include a collection of
east African beadwork and a rare Koro (Nigeria) head-
dress. In fiscal year 1986, the museum acquired several
extraordinary objects. Among them is a rare bronze ves-
sel, dated between 1668 and 1733 by thermoluminescent
testing, attributed to a small corpus material known as
Lower Niger bronzes (Nigeria). Another major acquisi-
tion was a unique ivory sculpture attributed to the Vili
people (Zaire); it is one of the most celebrated ivory
carvings from the Lower Congo region.

The museum presented four exhibitions in fiscal year
1986, the first of which was History, Context and Mate-
rials: Objects from the National Museum of African Art
(November 12, 1985—January 5, 1986), curated by assis-
tant curators Andrea Nicolls and Bryna Freyer. Go Well,

This rare bronze vessel (from Nigeria) collected in the late nine-

teenth century is attributed to a small corpus of material known

to art historians as Lower Niger bronzes. Through thermolumi-

nescent testing, the vessel has been dated between 1668 and 1773.
(Photograph by Bruce Fleischer)

Ito

My Child (November 26, 1985—January 5, 1986) exhib-
ited magnificent photographs of South Africa. The pho-
tographs were donated to the museum by Constance
Stuart Larrabee; in collaboration with Alan Paton, she
created a photographic portfolio based on his novel Cry,
the Beloved Country. The exhibition was curated by
Sylvia Williams and Judith Luskey, the museum’s director
and photo archivist, respectively. The Rising of a New
Moon: A Century of Tabwa Art (November 26,
1985—March 17, 1986) was the first comprehensive study
of the art of the Tabwa people of central Africa. Orga-
nized by the University of Michigan Museum of Art, this
international loan exhibition of eighty works had an ac-
companying catalogue coedited by Evan M. Maurer, di-

rector of the University of Michigan Museum of Art,
and Allen F. Roberts, researcher at the University of Mi-
chigan’s Center for Afro-American and African Studies.
The final exhibition organized by the museum was A
Human Ideal in African Art, Bamana Figurative Sculp-
ture (April 30—June 15, 1986). Featuring forty sculptures
from private and public collections in the United States,
the exhibition subsequently traveled to The Metropolitan
Museum of Art in New York. Dr. Kate Ezra, assistant
curator at the Metropolitan Museum, wrote the accom-
panying catalogue.

Five inaugural exhibitions have been planned and or-
ganized by the museum for the grand opening in 1987.
They are African Art in the Cycle of Life; Patterns of
Life: West African Strip- Weaving Traditions; Royal Benin
Art in the Collection of the National Museum of African
Art; Objects of Use; and The Permanent Collection of
the National Museum of African Art. Publications were
begun in 1986 for the first three exhibitions cited above.

The conservation department at the museum instituted
preventive maintenance procedures for the permanent
collection, including environmental monitoring and con-
trol, integrated pest management for infestation control,
and care and handling guidelines. Major conservation
for forty-two textiles was begun with a textile conserva-
tor.

Funding provided in the fiscal year enabled the mu-
seum to add a senior curator to the permanent staff, as
well as a writer/editor, a graphic designer, a photogra-
pher, and a development office.

The Eliot Elisofon Photographic Archives—one of the
largest photographic archives of African art, culture, and
environment—is a major research component of the mu-
seum. The Smithsonian Archives completed a survey this
year of the collection showing holdings of 150,000 color
slides and over 70,000 black-and-white photographs, as
well as 120,000 feet of unedited film and fifty feature
films. Donations included more than 1,200 color slides
and 1,500 black-and-white photographs.

The department of education and research nearly dou-
bled its docent corps this year, assembling eighty volun-
teers for a yearlong training program that will prepare
them and the department for the inaugural programs.
Barbara Frank, a predoctoral candidate at the University
of Indiana, Bloomington, was selected as a fellow
through the Office of Fellowships and Grants. Special
exhibitions, research programs, and the museum’s collec-
tion were the focus throughout the year for lectures,
films, gallery talks, and demonstrations administered by
the education department. Staff members presented lec-

A young boy learns a basket-weaving technique at one of the last
public workshops at the Capitol Hill location of the National
Museum of African Art on March 8, 1986. (Photograph by
Ricardo Vargas)

tures outside the museum on African game boards and
sculpture from Zaire.

The museum was host to distinguished scholars, edu-
cators, collectors, and representatives from over twenty
nations. More than 300 tours were scheduled; owing to
space and staff limitations, an equal number of tour re-
quests could not be met. About too workshops were
presented during the year in the museum, and outreach
programs reached more than 2,000 persons at over 100
sites in the Washington, D.C. area.

On November 26, 1985, District of Columbia Mayor
Marion Barry cohosted a reception at the museum in
recognition of the establishment of the sister cities agree-
ment between Washington, D.C., and Dakar, Senegal.
The event was sponsored by the Washington, D.C.-
Dakar Cities Friendship Council, a private voluntary
organization.

National Museum of

American Art

The National Museum of American Art (NMAA)
launched new initiatives and continued programs of col-
lecting, exhibiting, studying, and interpreting American
fine art. NMAA’s Renwick Gallery complemented these
endeavors with exhibitions and programs in American
crafts, decorative arts, and design; and Barney Studio
House, with its exhibits devoted to the arts from the
turn of the century, was open for tours and special pro-
grams.

Planning and development have been completed for a
new NMAA scholarly journal, Smithsonian Studies in
American Art; the first issue will appear in April 1987.
Oxford University Press will publish the journal semian-
nually. The selecting and editing of articles are the exclu-
sive prerogative of NMAA, with the assistance of an ad-
visory board composed of distinguished scholars in
American art. The journal will focus on all aspects of
the nation’s visual heritage, including decorative arts and
crafts, architecture and landscape design, film and video,
commercial and graphic design, as well as painting and
sculpture.

The American Art Forum, a nationwide group of pa-
trons and collectors, held its inaugural meeting in Wash-
ington on May 9-10, 1986. The forum was established
to support museum collections and programs and to fos-
ter increased appreciation of American art. The annual
membership fee is $2,500. To date, thirty-one members
have enrolled, exceeding initial goals for the charter year.

With a grant from the Henry Luce Foundation, the
museum has completed a pilot project to test, format,
and develop standards for a computerized inventory of
American sculpture, which will complement the muse-
um’s acclaimed Inventory of American Paintings Exe-
cuted before 1914. Using the extensive card file on Amer-
ican sculpture developed at the University of Delaware,
the pilot project extracted critical information and en-
tered records of more than 14,000 sculptures on a com-
puter data base. Contingent upon the availability of fu-
ture funding, the museum may proceed with a national
survey of sculpture in public and private collections, as
well as outdoor monuments and significant architectural
sculpture. In undertaking the national survey, the mu-
seum has enlisted the cooperation of the American Sculp-
ture Society and the National Park Service.

During fiscal year 1986, the museum organized a num-
ber of exhibitions. Most significant, in terms of making
its collection better known nationally and of document-
ing it with an attractive publication, was the Treasures
from the National Museum of American Art exhibition.
With generous support from United Technologies Corpo-

Iz

ration, eighty-one of NMAA’s most important works are
touring to museums in five major American cities, culmi-
nating with a final showing at NMAA in 1987. The ac-
companying book, distributed by the Smithsonian Insti-
tution Press, is in its second printing and has won an
award for design from the American Association of Mu-
seums (AAM).

Art in New Mexico, 1900-1945: Paths to Taos and
Santa Fe—the first major East Coast exhibition devoted
to the subject—was organized by and shown at the mu-
seum this year and will travel to three other institutions.
A book, written by NMAA director Charles Eldredge
and curators William Truettner and Julie Schimmel and
published by Abbeville Press, accompanies the exhibi-
tion. This book has gone into a second printing and won
special AAM recognition. The exhibition and publication
were underwritten by a grant from the Nelda C. and
H. J. Lutcher Stark Foundation.

To display selections of the objects given to the mu-
seum last year by the Container Corporation, the mu-
seum presented Art, Design and the Modern Corpora-
tion: The Collection of the Container Corporation of
America, which will tour and be accompanied by an il-
lustrated catalogue. Other exhibitions that continue to
tour nationally are Sharing Traditions: Five Black Artists
in Nineteenth-Century America; The Woven and Graphic
Art of Anni Albers; and Exposed and Developed: Pho-
tography Sponsored by the National Endowment for the
Arts.

Temporary exhibitions organized or shown at the mu-
seum during fiscal year 1986 included The Graphic Art
of George Elbert Burr (1859-1939); Symbols and Ceremo-
nies: Pueblo Indian Watercolors; Patrick Ireland: Draw-
ings, 1965-1985; Still Lifes by Henry Lee McFee;
Unknown Territory: Photographs by Ray K. Metzker;
Focusing on Art: Peter A. Juley & Son; and Figure
Prints: The Washington Print Club 11th Members’ Bien-
nial Exhibition. The Renwick Gallery’s exhibitions in-
cluded Treasures from the Land: Twelve New Zealand
Craftsmen and their Native Materials; Masterpieces of
Time: Clocks by Wendell Castle; The Art of Turned
Wood Bowls: The Edward Jacobson Collection; and
Frank Lloyd Wright and the Johnson Wax Buildings:

George Catlin’s Pigeon’s Egg Head Going to and Returning from
Washington, circa 1837, was among the 445 paintings transferred
to the National Museum of American Art from the National
Museum of Natural History this year.
113
Adelyn Breeskin’s goth birthday party attendants at the National
Museum of American Art on July 15, 1986, included (left to
right): Tom L. Freudenheim, Assistant Secretary for Museums;
S. Dillon Ripley, Secretary Emeritus of the Smithsonian, Mrs.
Breeskin; and Mrs. Jeannine Clark, Smithsonian Regent.

Creating a Corporate Cathedral. At the Barney Studio
House, Pastel Portraits from Studio House was shown.

The redesigned Doris M. Magowan Gallery of Portrait
Miniatures—which displays examples from the museum’s
collection and surveys this art form from its genesis in
the eighteenth century through the mid-nineteenth cen-
tury—was reopened this year. The stonework replace-
ment and other repairs on the facade of the Renwick
Gallery were completed in 1986. After almost a century
of patchwork on the soft brownstone trim, a $4 million
replacement was deemed the only suitable solution. For
the first time in almost ten years, the Renwick is unob-
structed by barriers and scaffolding.

The museum loaned more than 200 works of art from
its collection to museums and institutions in the United
States and abroad. The museum published two
illustrated brochures that enable visitors to conduct
themselves through the collections on tours of special
interest: “Afro-American Art” and “Women Artists.”

With the assistance of a visiting committee, the mu-
seum undertook a study of the Smithsonian’s craft pro-
grams, resulting in a reaffirmation of the museum’s com-
mitment to strong collecting, exhibiting, and study
programs in American crafts and related decorative arts
at the Renwick Gallery.

The museum received a record total of 1,618 gifts and
transfers of works of art during fiscal year 1986. The
most important group was a collection of paintings and
graphic works of Native American subjects, which had

114

been on loan from the National Museum of Natural His-
tory for almost twenty years and was finally made a per-
manent transfer to NMAA’s collection. Once considered
the subject of anthropological study, these art works in-
clude more than 400 paintings by the nineteenth-century
artist George Catlin. Another significant transfer
included forty-eight maquettes, drawings, and other pre-
paratory works created for the Art in Architecture pro-
gram of the General Services Administration. Also, the
museum’s Joseph Cornell Study Center, founded in 1978,
was enriched by the addition of rr9 collages and box
constructions—a gift from the Joseph and Robert Cor-
nell Memorial Foundation.

A landmark acquisition by the museum was the paint-
ing William Rush’s Model, by the American artist
Thomas Eakins, a gift of NMAA Commissioner
R. Crosby Kemper and Mrs. Kemper. The painting is the
final version that Eakins painted to memorialize Rush,
the Philadelphia carver who was the first American artist
to work directly from the nude model. Other significant
acquisitions, by purchase, included Still Life # 12 by Tom
Wesselmann; Landscape, Cornish, New Hampshire by
John White Alexander; Alabama Wall I by William Chr-
istenberry; Children Burying a Bird by J. Alden Weir; A
Greater Morning by Arthur B. Davies; and the glass
Opalescent Red Crown by Harvey Littleton for the Ren-
wick Gallery collections.

The museum continued to refine the collections by
deaccessioning works non-American in origin or that
duplicate other items in the collections. Eighteen decora-
tive arts objects, fifty-six sculptures, and two period
rooms were approved for deaccessioning by the NMVAA
Commission and other Smithsonian authorities.

The year had moments of joy and sadness with Adelyn
Dohme Breeskin, the museum’s senior curatorial advisor
who had been a member of the staff for twenty-two
years. In July the museum organized a surprise ninetieth
birthday party for its beloved “Mrs. B.” Mrs. Breeskin’s
career included a curatorship at the Metropolitan Mu-
seum of Art and the directorship of the Baltimore Mu-
seum of Art. She had received innumerable honors, in-
cluding the Secretary’s Gold Medal for Exceptional
Service and honorary degrees from several universities.
Works of art by Jacob Kainen and James Surls, among
others, were presented to the museum’s collection as
“birthday gifts” in her honor. A little more than a week
after the celebration, while traveling in northern Italy,
Mrs. Breeskin fell ill and died suddenly. She is sorely
missed by her friends and associates throughout the
world of art.
National Museum of
American History

In fiscal year 1986 the National Museum of American
History (NMAH) continued its dedication to the collec-
tion, care, study, and exhibition of objects that reflect
the experience of the American people. The museum also
offered lectures, concerts, publications, and other pro-
grams which interpret that experience. Although the mu-
seum was forced to curtail elements of all of its opera-
tions in the face of severe budget restrictions imposed by
the Gramm-Rudman-Hollings Act, it carried forward an
ambitious program of exhibitions, scholarship, collect-
ing, public programs, and renovation.

After the Revolution: Everyday Life in America,
1780-1800, the first of the museum’s reinstallations of its
permanent exhibition galleries, opened to the public in
November. The exhibition explores daily life in America
just after the Revolutionary War through case studies
of three families and three larger communities. The ex-
hibition also includes a Hands-On History Room, a per-
formance area, and two galleries for temporary special
exhibitions, currently presenting displays on eighteenth-
century ceramics and costume. Organized and written by
a team of historians and curators in the Department of
Social and Cultural History, this exhibition is among the
first to present new historical perspectives on the daily
lives of ordinary people in the new nation. Barbara
Clark Smith of the Division of Domestic Life wrote a
companion volume to the exhibition, After the Revolu-
tion: The Smithsonian History of Everyday Life in the
Eighteenth Century, which explores in greater depth the
lives and times of the people and families in the exhibi-
tion.

Engines of Change: The American Industrial Revolu-
tion, 1790-1860 was scheduled to open in November
1986. The exhibition depicts the evolving industrial soci-
ety, work culture, and some of the innovations on which
the Industrial Revolution was based—new machinery,
interchangeable parts, and the factory system. The exhi-
bition features some of the most important artifacts in
the museum’s collections, such as the Slater spinning
frame and the John Bull, the world’s oldest operable lo-
comotive. The curators of the exhibition, Steven Lubar
and Brooke Hindle of the Department of the History of
Science and Technology, have written a major book as a
result of their five years of exhibition research. Engines
of Change, published by the Smithsonian Institution
Press, is a comprehensive study of the Industrial Revolu-
tion.

The museum celebrated the Festival of India in Octo-
ber 1985 with two exhibitions. Aditi: The Monies of In-
dia examined the history of money in India from the

sixth century B.C. to the present, and All Sorts of
Painted Stuffs . . . Indian Chintzes and Their Western
Counterparts treated the production of exotic Indian
floral-patterned cottons and their arrival and imitation in
the West. Beyond the City Lights: American Domestic
Gas Lighting Systems, which also opened in October,
told the story of the widespread use of gas for illumina-
tion in rural nineteenth-century America and its decline
as a fuel with the coming of the age of electricity.

At Home on the Road: Autocamping, Motels and the
Rediscovery of America, which opened in November,
explored the enduring American urge to take to the high-
way without sacrificing the comforts of home and
showed how over the years highway travel has become a
form of entertainment. Hollywood: Legend and Reality
came to the museum in April on the first stop of a tour
of six American cities. Organized and circulated by the
Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service, it is
the first major exhibition to explore the development of
the film industry and its esthetic and cultural impact on
American society. GA roo: The Centenary of the Divi-
sion of Graphic Arts opened in May. The exhibition fo-
cused on the history of the division, its principal cura-
tors, their interpretations of the division’s mission, and
the effects of their interests and decisions on the nature
and growth of the collections.

Opening in June, Patent Pending: Models of Invention
paid tribute to American ingenuity in a display of more
than too patent models, including the Otis brothers’ ele-
vator, George Corliss’s compound steam engine, and
Abraham Lincoln’s device for buoying vessels over
shoals. The models illustrate the eagerness of nineteenth-
century Americans to capitalize on new ideas, build new
machines, and mechanize American life. Invention and
Enterprise, a companion exhibition, displayed objects
ranging from a cotton gin to a walking robot that repre-
sented critical points in the development of an idea into
a successful commercial product. Both shows commemo-
rated the rsoth anniversary of the 1836 Patent Act and
helped launch the joint Smithsonian Institution—U.S.
Patent Model Foundation campaign to raise $20 million
for acquiring some 100,000 patent models scattered
across the country and to build a facility to house them.
Body Imaging, a permanent exhibition that also opened
in June, features early versions of the machines used to-
day in three of the most important new techniques of
medical diagnostics—ultrasound, CAT (Computerized
Axial Tomography) scanning, and nuclear magnetic reso-
nance scanning.

The last exhibition of fiscal year 1986, New ¢ Differ-

115
pata

NI

The Midnighters—a harmonizing group featuring Hank
Ballard—were among the rhythm and blues artists of the 1950s
pictured in Rhythm and Blues: Black American Popular Music,
1945-1955. This exhibition at the National Museum of American
History examined rhythm and blues as an expression of the
urban Black community, as a commercial commodity, and as a
genre that transformed American popular music. (Photograph
courtesy Jack Gibson)

ent: Home Interiors in 18th-Century America, comple-
mented the first, After the Revolution. Opening in Au-
gust, New ¢ Different explored changes in the way
Americans furnished their houses and considered impor-
tant new ideas about luxury and necessity, comfort and
leisure, and gentility and social ritual reflected in these
changes. The museum continued its popular Case of the
Month series, which included displays on the consumer
movement in America, American motorcycles and motor-
cyclists, the history of women’s gym suits, and the his-
tory of plastic surgery.

In addition to researching, writing, and organizing
exhibitions, the two major curatorial departments of the
museum moved ahead with the work of investigating
American history, publishing articles, augmenting the
collections, and sponsoring and attending scholarly sym-
posia, conferences, and lectures.

The Department of the History of Science and Tech-
nology continued to publish Technology and Culture, the
scholarly journal of the Society for the History of Tech-
nology. Departmental staff members also helped support
the scholarly journals Railroad History and Industrial
Archaeology. Deborah Warner of the Division of Physical
Sciences led the inauguration of Rittenhouse, a journal
treating American scientific instruments and their mak-

116

ers. Pete Daniel of the Division of Agriculture and Natu-
ral Resources received the Herbert Feis Award of the
American Historical Association for his book Standing at
the Crossroads: Southern Life in the zoth Century, and
John H. White of the Division of Transportation pub-
lished The Great Yellow Fleet: A History of American
Refrigerator Cars.

Scholarly Studies Grants were awarded to Carlene
Stephens and David Todd of the Division of Engineering
and Industry for study of the relationship of scientific
instrument makers to academic astronomers; to Paul
Forman of the Division of Electricity and Modern Phys-
ics for his research in the military background of atomic
clock development; and to Barbara Melosh of the Divi-
sion of Medical Sciences to support her investigation of
gender issues in public art of the New Deal.

A permanent American Indian Program located in the
department was established in fiscal year 1986 to bring
American Indian perspectives to all of the museum’s out-
reach and exhibition projects, an important development
for both the museum and the Institution. Discussions
with the National Museum of Natural History subse-
quently resulted in the initiation of a joint program on
American Indian issues at the two museums.

The Information Revolution, a planned major reinstal-
lation on the history of computers and communications,
achieved half of its fund-raising goal of $4 million from
a consortium of computer manufacturers and communi-
cations firms. A Material Culture, a reinstallation
planned for 1988, received a large additional grant for
its related public programs from the Du Pont Company.
Engines of Change received a grant for public outreach
from the Norfolk Southern Company, supplementing the
company’s grant last year to help fund construction of
the exhibition. The Kellogg Foundation also granted
funds for an exhibition on the human and agricultural
impact of genetic engineering.

Significant acquisitions include cadet uniforms worn
by Jane P. McKeon, in 1980 the first woman to graduate
from the U.S. Military Academy at West Point; a laser
eraser, donated by Arthur L. Schawlow, who shared the
Nobel prize in physics in 1951 for his work in laser spec-
troscopy; a 1923 “Indian” touring motorcycle with a side-
car; a brass surveying instrument dating from about
1735; an International Harvester 1486 farm tractor, made
in 1979; and two eighteenth-century tall case clocks
made by Peter Stretch and David Rittenhouse, now the
oldest American clockwork pieces in the museum collec-
tion.

After five years of work culminating in the museum’s
The graphic arts exhibition in the 1920s—when it was located in
the Commons of the Smithsonian Building—is one of the images
exhibited in GA roo: The Centenary of the Division of Graphic
Arts at the National Museum of American History.

first major reinstallation, After the Revolution, the De-
partment of Social and Cultural History turned its atten-
tion to its second major reinstallation project. Scheduled
to open in 1989, the exhibition will address the rise of
middle-class culture in nineteenth-century America; ex-
plore the daily lives of Americans, both in and outside
the middle class; and examine the effects of middle-class
ideology on people and institutions.

The new Afro-American Index Project, begun in
December 1985, has recorded more than 20,000 Afro-
American related objects, photographs, and documents
in the collections of NMAH and the Anacostia Neigh-
borhood Museum. The project raised sufficient funds to
allow it to survey the collections of the National Mu-
seum of Natural History, the National Air and Space
Museum, the National Portrait Gallery, and the
Smithsonian Archives. The Smithsonian Ethnographic
Judaica Project, established in fiscal year 1986, began
cataloguing the roughly 1,000 ethnographic objects, his-
torical documents, and examples of ceremonial art in the
Judaica collections of the Smithsonian to make these re-
sources available for study and interpretation, to the en-
richment of both scholars and the general public. Publi-
cations and exhibitions will follow the cataloguing phase
of the project.

The Division of Political History conducted a survey
of the labor history materials at the museum as part of

planning for a 1987 exhibition, Symbols of Labor. In
conjunction with the opening of the special exhibition
gallery on eighteenth-century costume in After the Revo-
lution, the Division of Costume hosted a meeting of the
Costume Society of America. The Division of Photo-
graphic History completed work on a finding aid to the
3,300 images in their collection of photographs by
Rudolf Eickemeyer, an outstanding pictorialist photogra-
pher of the early twentieth-century.

Many curators and specialists in the department gave
lectures this year, including John Edward Hasse, “The
Impact of Ragtime in American Culture,” at the Scott
Joplin Festival; Rita J. Adrosko, “Designing Machine:
The Jacquard Loom,” at the Wadsworth Atheneum; Carl
Scheele, “The Museum and Popular Culture,” at the Pop-
ular Culture Association’s annual meeting; and Gary B.
Kulik, “The Invention of New England,’ at the Center
for the Study of New England Culture, University of
Massachusetts, Amherst.

New accessions include a fine collection of about too
pieces of eighteenth- and nineteenth-century American
pewter representing the work of major American crafts-
men; a trumpet owned and played by John Birks “Dizzy”
Gillespie; a Xerox 914 copier, the first fully automated
electrostatic office copier; and a large collection of pot-
tery, tools, photographs, and factory records from the
Bennett family of Baltimore potters, 1846-1965, among
the oldest and most influential American potteries.

The Department of Public Programs continued to pro-
vide expanded educational services and to produce sev-
eral series of programs and concerts designed to bring
the public closer to the museum’s collections and exhibi-
tions. In the Hands-On History Room, a learning facility
for family groups in After the Revolution, the education
division staff evaluated and fine-tuned its activities while
serving visitors. The division has been developing a simi-
lar activity center for the Engines of Change and contin-
ues to operate three other demonstration centers in the
museum. The division also oversees the activities of 200
volunteer docents, who conducted tours for 117,000 visi-
tors this year. Striking out in new directions, the division
drew on materials used in new exhibitions to develop
three curriculum kits for elementary and secondary
American history courses. The division also launched an
audience research program designed to elicit
demographic information about museum visitors.

The department’s Program in Black American Culture
presented combined colloquia and concerts on Classic
Gospel Song, which explored the music of Thomas A.
Dorsey, and Black American Popular Music, which ex-

117
amined the evolution and dissemination of the rhythm
and blues style. The program also produced a ten-part
Jazz in the Palm Court series and commemorative pro-
grams for the Juneteenth Festival and International
Women’s Day.

The Chamber Music Program, which comprises the
Smithsonian Chamber Players, the Smithson String Quar-
tet, and the Smithsonian Chamber Orchestra, presented
thirty-two concerts at the museum. Reaching for a wider
audience, the Chamber Orchestra also released its six-
record and five-cassette Mozart series through the
Smithsonian Institution Press.

The department continued to present the Saturday Af-
ter Noon series; its annual Holiday Celebration; the Mu-
sic: An American Sampler series; the Palm Court Cameo
series; and the America on Film series, a free film theater
co-sponsored by the Smithsonian Institution Women’s
Committee and the Resident Associate Program; it also
began a new program of performances and craft demon-
strations related to After the Revolution. Unfortunately,
an unexpected reduction in federal funding in mid-fiscal
year resulted in the cancellation of a number of late
spring and early summer programs.

The museum continued the implementation of its Mas-
ter Coordination Plan to completely retrofit its mechani-
cal system—including heating, ventilating, air-condition-
ing, and fire suppression—and to integrate all these
changes with the demands of current and future exhibi-
tion programs. In concert with this planning and in re-
sponse to a severe shortage of storage space and persis-
tent asbestos contamination problems, the museum is
continuing work on its Master Space Plan, which seeks
to anticipate and prepare for the museum’s space needs
over the next twenty years.

In addition to organizing writing, designing, and pro-
ducing the exhibition Aditi: The Monies of India and
creating a booklet and poster to accompany the exhibi-
tion, staff members of the National Numismatics Collec-
tion created two traveling exhibitions last year. The first
displayed rare proofs of Mexican bank notes and ancient
Greek coins; the second featured photographs of
extremely rare coins, paper currencies, and medals. Staff
members and volunteers at the collection published six-
teen articles during the year. Through grants awarded by
the Research Opportunity Fund three curators—includ-
ing Dr. Richard G. Doty, a new staff member formerly
of the American Numismatic Society—participated in the
International Numismatic Congress in London in Sep-
tember. The reorganization of the collections proceeded
apace in the U.S. coin collection, which is virtually com-

118

pleted, and in the ancient Greek coin collection and the
section of certified proofs of national bank notes.
Eighty-nine accessions during the year added 2,230 new
objects to collections, including more than 50 rare an-
cient Greek silver coins and 147 eleventh-century Islamic
gold coins struck in Sicily.

The National Philatelic Collection celebrated its cen-
tennial in 1986, and the U.S. Postal Service issued a spe-
cial booklet of stamps to commemorate the event. An
exhibition in the Hall of Postal History and Philately
traced the history of the collection, and Executive Direc-
tor Herbert R. Collins published an article on the col-
lection in The American Philatelist. Reaching Rural
America opened in April. The exhibition traced the in-
troduction and growth of rural free delivery service in
the United States and showed how RFD helped diminish
some of the isolation and loneliness of rural life. Staff
members organized nine smaller exhibitions, including
The Perils of the Posts, which treated robberies, ship-
wrecks, and airmail crashes; Gotcha, on the Postal In-
spection Service, the country’s oldest consumer protec-
tion agency; and American Postal Marking Devices.
James H. Bruns, curator of U.S. Postal History and Phi-
lately, developed a learning center in the Dillsburg Post

A clockwork mechanism propels this 1871 patent model of an
“Improved Creeping Baby Doll.” The doll was one of more than a
hundred patent models on display in Patent Pending: Models of
Invention, an exhibition at the National Museum of American
History that commemorated the rsoth anniversary of the 1836
Patent Act.

Office display to demonstrate the processing of mail.
This year’s accessions totaled 90,000 objects, among
them a 1775 letter with the earliest known “Constitu-
tional Postmark” and a collection of mint and used Swiss
postage stamps, 1843 to 1979.

At the Office of the Registrar, a major portion of the
year was spent analyzing space needs for new collec-
tions, exhibition reinstallations, and relocation due to
renovations planned for the next five years. The museum
also began work on plans for moving over 100,000 ob-
jects to the Museum Support Center in Silver Hill, Mary-
land, and appointed a move coordinator under the Of-
fice of the Registrar.

The Smithsonian’s largest asbestos abatement project
affects more than 1,000,000 NMAH objects stored in
several buildings at Silver Hill. Registrarial staff cleaned
several thousand objects during the year and improved
the accessibility of objects for study and exhibition. Staff
members supported the receipt and processing of more
than 45,000 new acquisitions and 3,000 loans for special
exhibitions. The museum lent more than 2,600 objects
to institutions in thirty-two states and three foreign
countries. Assistant Registrar Katherine Spiess taught a
collections course at George Washington University; Reg-
istrar Martha Morris led a workshop on Legal Problems
of Collections Management for the Virginia Association
of Museums and ended her eighteen-month tenure as
chair of the Smithsonian Registrar’s Council with a spe-
cial commendation from the Secretary.

Several major developments marked the fourth year of
the Archives Center. Most dramatically, the center more
than doubled the size of its third floor facility, creating
new public service, processing, and collection storage
areas, and consolidating all Archives Center staff offices
and researcher services in a single location. The center’s
Modern Advertising History Program received grants of
$90,000 from Philip Morris and $75,000 from Miles
Laboratories to conduct oral history interviews and col-
lect print and electronic advertisements documenting the
Marlboro cigarette and Alka-Seltzer advertising cam-
paigns. Archives Center historian Spencer Crew is cura-
tor of a major exhibition, Field to Factory: Afro-
American Migration 1915-1940, scheduled to open in
February 1987. A grant from Pepsi-Cola Company of
$80,000 will enable Crew to produce an extensive edu-
cational program, including slide-tape presentations, an
educational booklet, and a self-guided tour.

The Archives Center has established an audiovisual
archives capacity and can now create master and user
copies of recordings to allow viewing of films without

C if

4 00 Bile wil

&

bat
dN AI, AININYE mney

SR EER a ane ART Se cee

i

Aan,

. vg

Vaated woven burma be WF OPS Pee

This Bible Quilt was made a Harriet Powers (1837-1911), a
Black farm woman from the outskirts of Athens, Georgia. The
quilt, now in the collection of the Division of Textiles at the
National Museum of American History, records the maker’s
impressions of the Old and New Testaments.

risking damage through ordinary film projection.
Chadwyck-Healey, Ltd. produced the center’s first micro-
fiche publication, The Scrapbooks of Joe Louis: 1935-44,
on 304 microfiche cards. A 295-page guide to the Donald
Sultner-Welles photographic collection has also been
completed. The center also has added some forty-five
collections to its holdings.

The Division of Conservation emphasized projects to
reduce the immense backlog of objects that need
improved storage or basic stabilization treatment to en-
sure their value for future research or exhibition. More
than 3,500 high-priority objects were treated or rehoused
during the year, but the total fell short of expectations
owing to Gramm-Rudman-Hollings budget restrictions
on expenditures for supplies, conservation technician
contracts, and staff vacancies. Major collections given
such attention included over 1,100 glass photographic
plates and cyanotype prints in the Eadweard Muybridge
collection; 300 regimental flags of the Civil War and the
Spanish American War; and more than 1,000 photo-
graphs documenting life in a Kentucky coal mining com-
pany town between 1911 and 1940.

119
Major exhibitions, Cases of the Month, loans, and
assistance to exhibits staff required more than 4,700
work hours. The division’s rapidly growing Wang data
base program helped mesh the complex schedules of con-
servators, contractors, interns, and volunteers with the
flow of hundreds of objects having different treatment
needs, priorities, and deadlines. Division of Conservation
staff answered more than 600 requests for information
from the public and other institutions, and conducted
laboratory tours for more than 500 individuals.

At the Computer Services Center, the Museum Auto-
mation Program continued to grow through the exten-
sion of the local area network, the acquisition of addi-
tional workstations and microcomputers, and the
addition of memory and on-line storage devices for the
central museum computer system. Communications links
were established with the Institution’s IBM and Wang
systems to provide future access to the Collections Infor-
mation System and electronic mail and document inter-
change services. Major software acquisitions included the
Registration Transaction Tracking System; a minicomputer-
based electronic spread sheet and modeling system; the
software to support museum and Institutional electronic
mail, calendar, and document transfers; and various
computer systems management and control applications.
The center established a basic and advanced word-
processing training program, and welcomed George
Seminara, a senior computer specialist, to its staff to
plan its software development program and to guide the
conversion of the inventory data base.

The Office of the Building Manager has been busy
maintaining the building, supporting approximately
1,200 events, and helping to prepare for exhibitions such
as Engines of Change and Field to Factory. The office
took the first step toward automation through the addi-
tion of a Wang personal computer and printer. The staff
continues to support the ongoing asbestos removal at the
museum, the long-term Master Space Plan, and in the
near future will help in the replacement of the fourth-
floor roof, many windows around the building, and the
north and south main entrance doors. General Foreman
Richard Day was promoted to assistant building man-
ager.

In fiscal year 1986 the Afro-American Communities
Project added demographic information derived from
records of antebellum Richmond, Virginia, to be ana-
lyzed and compared to comparable holdings for northern
cities. The project is also attempting to acquire census
information for other southern cities from the
late-nineteenth century to enlarge its data base and

120

broaden its holdings beyond the Civil War. Director
James Horton presented twelve lectures at universities
and to professional organizations, as well as public lec-
tures in Phoenix, Salt Lake City, Albuquerque, and
Denver.

The Project on the Vietnam Generation, a private
nonprofit organization housed in the museum, celebrated
its first anniversary on March 5, 1986. During fiscal year
1986, the project raised $75,000 to continue its network-
ing and role as a clearinghouse and published a report
on its fall 1985 Survey of Courses on Vietnam Era Events
as well as four issues of Report, the organization’s quar-
terly newsletter. The project’s survey of state and local
Vietnam veterans’ memorials uncovered ninety-six such
projects throughout the nation. A report on the survey
results was produced by November 1986.
National Museum of
Natural History

This mural of the volcanically active Archean World, 3.5 billion years ago, is on view in the National Museum of Natural History exhi-
bition Earliest Traces of Life. (Photograph by Chip Clark)

The National Museum of Natural History/ National Mu-
seum of Man, the nation’s largest research museum,
houses more than eighty million specimens and artifacts.
The one hundred and twenty doctoral-level scientists on
the museum staff conduct research on the collections
with visiting scholars, students, research associates, and
eighty resident scientists from affiliated U.S. government
agencies. The results of this research are shared with the
public through publications, lectures, and exhibitions.

Dr. Robert $§. Hoffmann Named Director

Dr. Robert S. Hoffmann of the University of Kansas, a
leading U.S. authority on the systematics and evolution
of mammals, was appointed director of the museum in
October 1985. Hoffmann is the first non-Smithsonian
scientist appointed to the position. At the University of
Kansas, Hoffmann served as curator of mammals at the

Museum of Natural History (1968-85), as Summerfield
Distinguished Professor of Systematics and Ecology
(19$2—85), and as dean of the College of Liberal Arts and
Sciences (1978-82).

Hoffmann’s continuing research focuses on mamma-
lian evolution in the last several million years, in what is
now the Bering Strait and its surrounding land forma-
tions. He has made many research trips to the Soviet
Union and has served on the U.S.-U.S.S.R. Joint Com-
mission on Science Policy of the National Academy of
Sciences and the NAS Advisory Committee on the
U.S.S.R. and Eastern Europe.

International Grass Symposium

The Smithsonian grass herbarium, containing more than
250,000 specimens, is the largest and most significant in
existence. To summarize recent research developments,

I21
identify new problems, and suggest new avenues of ap-
proach, the museum in 1986 organized the first interna-
tional symposium on grass systematics and evolution,
held July 27-31 under the sponsorship of the Smith-
sonian, the American Institute of Biological Sciences, and
the National Science Foundation. Museum botanist Dr.
Thomas Soderstrom played a major role in planning the
symposium. Attended by 150 scientists from the United
States and abroad, major symposium addresses were de-
livered by Richard W. Pohl, Distinguished Professor of
botany, Iowa State University; G. Ledyard Stebbins,
Emeritus Professor of genetics, University of California,
Davis; and Melvin Calvin, Nobel Laureate Professor of
chemistry, University of California, Berkeley. The papers
presented at the symposium will be published by the
Smithsonian Institution Press.

Cooperative U.S.-Mexican Bee Program

Museum entomologist Ronald J. McGinley and colleague
Charles Michener, of the University of Kansas, in 1986
initiated the Cooperative Program on the Mexican Api-
fauna (Programa Cooperativo sobre la Apifauna Mexi-
cana) involving twenty-five bee specialists and botanists
from the United States, Mexico, and Panama. An imme-
diate goal is the production of an illustrated, bilingual
key to the genera of Mexican bees. The proposed pro-
gram would promote the study of Mexican bees by en-
couraging cooperation between researchers in Mexico
and other countries and by aiding in establishing a com-
munication network among interested bee workers and
pollination ecologists.

Research on Hydrothermal Vents of the Eastern Pacific

Museum zoologist Dr. Meredith L. Jones is an authority
on Riftia, the giant vestimentiferan tube worm that is a
major faunal constituent of the extraordinary communi-
ties living in and around seafloor hydrothermal vents.
Since the discovery of these communities a decade ago,
Jones has played a major role in classifying vestimentifer-
ans. A symposium volume edited by Jones, providing an
overview of research on the hydrothermal vents of the
eastern Pacific, was published in December 1985 as Bulle-
tin No. 6 of the Biological Society of Washington. Jones
also reported a new discovery bearing on the question of
how a mouthless and gutless adult vestimentiferan ob-

I22

tains the internal symbiotic bacteria from which the
worm derives its nourishment. Jones’s studies of juvenile
vestimentiferan worms revealed at the base of the worm’s
plume a short-lived, ciliated passageway through which
bacteria can pass. This passageway later atrophies, leav-
ing the bacterial symbionts inside the worm.

Plains Indian Publications

Much of our knowledge about the Plains of the United
States can be linked with the research of Dr. Waldo R.
Wedel, museum archeologist emeritus, and Dr. John C.
Ewers, museum ethnologist emeritus. Both published
major works in 1986. Wedel’s Central Plains Prehistory:
Holocene Environments and Culture Change in the Re-
publican River Basin, published by the University of Ne-
braska Press, is the first full-scale review and synthesis of
central Plains prehistory, using the Republican River Val-
ley, which cuts through Kansas, Nebraska, and Colo-
rado, as an ideal microcosm of Plains environments.
Wedel approaches his subject through the environmental
setting, demonstrating how drastic variations in climate
and natural setting provoked differing cultural responses
in the survival strategies of the human inhabitants.
Ewers’s Plains Indian Sculpture: A Traditional Art from
America’s Heartland, published by the Smithsonian Insti-
tution Press, is the first comprehensive look at Plains
Indian sculpture. Unlike other Indian cultures, the Plains
Indians rendered nearly all works in miniature, often
consisting of carvings on effigy tobacco pipes. Ewers’s
book demonstrates that the Indians of the North Ameri-
can heartland created an art form comparable to the
other great traditions of Native American art.

Handbook of North American Indians

Great Basin, sixth in the Smithsonian’s projected twenty-
volume encyclopedic Handbook of North American Indi-
ans, was published in August 1986. The forty-five chap-
ters, written by leading experts, summarize modern
knowledge of the environment, prehistory, history, devel-
opment, cultures, and forms of social organization of the
Shoshone, Bannock, Ute, Paiute, Kawaiisu, and Washoe
tribes. The volume was edited by Warren L. d’Azevedo.
The complete Handbook is being published under the
general editorship of Dr. William C. Sturtevant.
Contributions to Latin American Archaeological
Research

Museum archaeologist Dr. Betty J. Meggers was
awarded the Secretary’s Gold Medal for Exceptional Serv-
ice in January 1986 for her “innovative research in pre-
Columbian archaeology” and her achievements in ce-
menting the professional bonds between the Northern
and Southern hemispheres. During her thirty-five years
at the Smithsonian, Dr. Meggers conducted archaeologi-
cal training workshops in Latin America; translated into
English many books and articles by Latin American ar-
chaeologists; and brought many Latin American archae-
ologists to study at the Smithsonian under fellowships
and grants. She currently directs the archaeological work
of the Smithsonian Neotropical Lowland Ecosystems
project.

1985-86 International Expeditions

An eruption on the glaciated summit of Nevada del Ruiz
in the Colombian Andes in November 1985 destroyed
villages and caused the deaths of about 24,000 people.
As soon as seismic activity at Ruiz began to subside in
late January, a multidisciplinary museum team—headed
by Dr. William Melson, a volcanologist, Dr. Vicki Funk,
a botanist, and Dr. Gary Graves, an ornithologist—flew
to Colombia to study the eruption and its long-term im-
pact on the environment. On the trip Melson amassed
samples of the diverse volcanic rocks produced by the
eruption. Laboratory studies of the rocks reveal that the
eruption tapped largely degassed, highly viscous dacitic
to andesitic magma expected to be at the top of a much
larger, possibly water-rich magma body, which has yet to
erupt.

Dr. Ernani Menez of the museum’s Oceanographic
Sorting Center in May 1986 led a field party of American
and Philippino scientists to Siayan Island, a remote, bio-
logically unexplored offshore area of the northern Philip-
pines, to make collections of marine plants and animals.
Eight scientists from the University of California, Berk-
eley, Scripps Institute of Oceanography, Seattle Pacific
University, Mindanao State University, and Silliman Uni-
versity, took part in the expedition jointly funded by the
Smithsonian and the National Cancer Institute. Seaweeds
and seagrasses possibly containing active natural sub-
stances of value as anticancer drugs were collected for
research.

Workmen move Hydrolab, the National Oceanic and Atmo-
spheric Administration’s underwater research laboratory, into the
National Museum of Natural History. (Photograph by Chip
Clark)

Hiking into Nepal’s mountainous Anapurna region,
museum scientists in October 1985 conducted a biotic
survey of a proposed Anapurna Conservation area and
searched for habitats appropriate for more detailed sur-
veys. Museum arachnologist Jon Coddington, entomolo-
gists Jerry Louton and Wayne Mathis, botanist Vicki
Funk, ichthyologist Richard Vari, and herpetologist
George Zug, accompanied by Nepalese Sherpas and por-
ters, made the trek with the encouragement of World
Wildlife Fund and Nepalese government officials inter-
ested in the formation of multiuse national parks. The
team made recommendations bearing on the conserva-
tion of the natural communities in the proposed area.

Moroccan field expeditions were carried out in Octo-
ber 1985 and April 1986 by a Smithsonian-National Geo-
graphic Society international team of paleontologists
searching for the ancient Strait of Gibraltar—a passage
believed destroyed more than five million years ago by

123
the collision of the European and African continental
plates. This project, headed by museum paleobiologist
Dr. Richard H. Benson, is providing historical evidence
of the formation of the mountain systems of southern
Spain and northwest Africa.

Pioneering Bat Study

Tropical bats, nocturnal and elusive, have frustrated ef-
forts of scientists to capture, mark, and monitor them on
a long-term basis. It has not been possible to learn much
about bat populations, longevity, or behavior. But over
the past decade, museum mammalogist Dr. Charles O.
Handley developed field techniques that made it possible
for him to illuminate the demography and natural his-
tory of a population of tropical bats and their important
role in tropical forest ecology. For a study site Handley
selected Barro Colorado Island, near the Panama Isth-
mus, where a large pool of bats feed year-round on the
fruit of the canopy trees. Through the first half of the
project, 1975-80, Handley worked with U.S. Fish and
Wildlife scientists Don Wilson and Alfred Gardner.
Douglas and Susan Morrison of Rutgers University con-
ducted radio-tracking and related roosting and foraging
studies, supported by the Smithsonian Tropical Research
Institute and the National Geographic Society. The
Smithsonian’s National Zoological Park maintained a
colony of Panamanian bats in the early stages of the
project that were used to determine age structure and
reproductive cycles—data of invaluable aid in the field.
The field crews caught a total of 48,375 bats, including
fifty-six species. Every new bat caught was marked, but
the project focused on the common fruit bat, Artibeus
jamaicensis. As the project progressed, Handley calcu-
lated the annual survival rate of the adult female bat to
be about 60 percent, the average longevity to be 1.8
years, and the potential longevity to be about 10 years.

Smithsonian Marine Station at Link Port

The Smithsonian Marine Station at Link Port—at the
Harbor Branch Oceanographic Institution, Fort Pierce,
Florida—presents a unique opportunity to study marine
organisms because it is situated in a transition zone be-
tween tropical and temperate provinces. Local marine
habitats include mangroves, seagrass beds, mud and
sand flats, intertidal coquina outcrops, sabellarid worm
reefs, oculinid coral reefs, shallow to deep water sandy

124

On the back of an elephant, National Museum of Natural His-
tory entomologists Wayne Mathis and Jerry Louton ride through
a field of tall grass in Nepal. They are carrying collecting nets.

plains, and the Florida current with its myriad of tropi-
cal plankton and larvae. These environments enable
Smithsonian scientists to conduct systematic, ecological,
reproductive, and behavioral studies. For example, Dr.
M. G. Harasewych is investigating the family Melonge-
nidae with the subfamilies Busyconinae, restricted solely
to the east coast of North America, and Melongeninae,
found worldwide. For this research he is using DNA-
DNA hybridization and isoenzyme electrophoresis tech-
niques to confirm the evolutionary relationships inferred
on the basis of shell morphometric and anatomical data.
This represents one of the first efforts to use DNA tech-
niques to study molluscan evolution.

Dating the Origin of the Solar System

Meteorite curator Glenn J. MacPherson initiated a major
study of the meteorite Vigarano, from Vigarano, Italy.
Vigarano is similar to the Allende meteorite, whose iso-
topic properties gave the first direct clues to the earliest
history of the solar system. Because subsequent modifica-
tion of the Allende meteorite during later solar system
evolution has obscured some of its primary features, sci-
entists have tried to find a similar meteorite that has es-
caped such modifications. Vigarano is such a meteorite.
Using samples from the Vigarano meteorite in the mu-
seum meteorite research collection, MacPherson made
studies using ion microprobe and scanning electron mi-
croscope equipment in the laboratories of collaborating
scientists from the University of Chicago and Washington
University, St. Louis. Preliminary results have begun to
establish the prealteration isotopic and chemical signa-
tures of the earliest solar system solid material.

Mangrove Ecosystem Study

As a result of human activities, such as dredging, sewage
dumping, and oil spills, the intertidal environment of
many mangrove swamps on tropical and subtropical
coasts are under environmental stress. To gather much
needed data on mangrove communities, the museum ini-
tiated the first long-term multidisciplinary study of an
undisturbed mangrove ecosystem at Twin Cays, Belize,
coordinated by Dr. Klaus Ruetzler. The study was begun
with grants from the EXXON Corporation and now is
supplemented with grants and fellowships from the
Smithsonian Caribbean Coral Reef Ecosystems Program.
Seventy-five scientists from the Smithsonian and other
institutions worked at Twin Cays in 1985-86. Among the
projects by museum staff are sediment coring and map-
ping studies by Ian Macintyre; a study of the functional
differences between different morphological forms of
brown alga by Mark and Diane Littler; an investigation
of the physiological adaptations of selected mangrove
organisms to salinity and temperature stress by Kristian
Fauchald and Brian F. Kensley; surveys of shore fly and
beetle fauna by Wayne Mathis and Paul Spangler; a
study of copepod parasites of fishes by Roger Cressey; a
lichen survey by Mason Hale; and ichthyological studies
by James Tyler and David Johnson.

Museum Support Center
The Museum Support Center—located at Silver Hill,

Maryland and administered by the museum—is devoted
exclusively to collections management. During 1986 a

new storage facility for Antarctic meteorites was com-
pleted. Hundreds of meteorite specimens gathered in the
Antarctic over the last decade by National Science Foun-
dation expeditions, and temporarily stored at the Na-
tional Air and Space Administration’s Johnson Space
Flight Center, are being turned over to the Smithsonian.
These and other precious samples from the museum me-
teorite collection will be permanently stored at the Mu-
seum Support Center.

Earth’s Oldest Fossils Featured in New Permanent
Exhibition

The Earliest Traces of Life opened on June 27. The
highlight of the exhibition is a 3.5 billion-year-old
stromatolite, fossilized blue-green algae and bacteria, the
oldest direct evidence of life on earth. A large mural de-
picts algal life-forms growing along the shoreline 3.5 bil-
lion years ago. Among the other displays are fossil mi-
crobes preserved in surprising detail and fossils of the
Ediacara fauna, the earliest known multicellular animals,
distributed worldwide in rocks between 570 and 670 mil-
lion years old. Geologist Kenneth W. Towe provided the
scientific background for the exhibition displays. An ani-
mated film by Faith Hubley, Enter Life, shows the criti-
cal stages thought to be involved in the establishment of
living things on our planet based on Dr. Towe’s assess-
ment of possible scenarios and probable hazards early
life on earth may have encountered. For his outstanding
contributions to the development of The Earliest Traces
of Life and other paleontology halls, he was presented a
Directors Award for exceptional service.

Other permanent exhibitions include Shark!, display-
ing the jaws of Carcharodon megalodon, the colossal
ancestor of the modern great white shark, opened in the
paleontology hall. For this display a set of fiberglass
jaws was fitted with a set of forty-eight C. megalodon
teeth, ranging from 1 to 6 inches in length, donated by
Peter J. Harmatuk, a fossil hunter from Bridgeton,
North Carolina. Hydrolab, a stationary underwater lab-
oratory that revolutionized oceanographic research by
permitting scientists to live and work in the depths of the
sea for lengthy periods, was placed on exhibition in the
Sea Life Hall on May 15. Underwater photographs and
video footage of scientists using Hydrolab are on view.
Hydrolab was retired from service in 1985 after serving
for nine years as a National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration undersea base off Saint Croix, Virgin
Islands.

125
Voyage into History

The U.S. Exploring Expedition, a landmark in the an-
nals of science and naval history, triumphed again in
1985-86 as a critically acclaimed Smithsonian exhibition
and book. The yearlong exhibition (November 14,
1985—November 9, 1986) commemorated an expedition
that made enduring contributions to scientific knowl-
edge. The expedition’s most important legacy was the
thousands of bird, mammal, fish, coral, and plant speci-
mens and ethnographic artifacts collected by the “Scientif-
ics’—the remarkable young scientists on the voyage. The
collections the Scientifics assembled, mostly from the
Pacific Islands and the west coast of North America,
were without precedent in the country. Turned over to
the Smithsonian in 1857, the artifacts became the founda-
tion for the museum’s study collections.

Financed by generous grants from the Atlantic Rich-
field Foundation and the Smithsonian Special Exhibition
Trust Fund, Magnificent Voyagers became a massive un-
dertaking comprising 1,750 objects, the largest special
exhibition ever organized by the museum’s Exhibits Of-
fice. More than forty institutions and individuals lent
materials for the show.

Museum historian Herman Viola played the major
role in initiating and coordinating the planning of the
event—undertaken for the celebration of the museum’s
twenty-fifth anniversary. Viola, George Watson,
Frederick Bayer, Adrienne Kaeppler, Jane Walsh, Daniel
Appleman, Richard Eyde, Philip Lundeberg, Harold
Langley, Nathan Reingold, Jeffrey Stann, Douglas
Evelyn, Joye Leonhart, Ralph Ehrenberg, John Wolter,
and Charles Burroughs contributed to the book accom-
panying the exhibition. The book, edited by Viola and
Carolyn Margolis, the exhibition project manager, was
published by the Smithsonian Institution Press.

The museum’s Office of Education publicized the exhi-
bition through its new quarterly calendar. Teacher kits
offering multimedia materials were developed for the
exhibition and made available nationally. Sailing Ships
and Old Salts, a special weekend festival of family activi-
ties was organized in conjunction with the exhibition,
presenting performances of sea chanteys, Samoan danc-
ers, and demonstrations of the traditional crafts of sea-
men—scrimshaw, knot tying, flag signaling, and the use
of navigation instruments.

Magnificent Voyagers will be circulated nationally for
two years by the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhi-
bition Service following the engagement at the Smith-
sonian.

126

Other special exhibitions include: Music and Dance of
Papua, New Guinea, (January to—March 9, 1986), color
photographs and artifacts of the brilliantly colorful cere-
monial costumes, personal adornment, and dances of the
people of Papua New Guinea by photographer Jordan
Wright. Seven Views of Hopi (March 14—June 1, 1986),
photos of the Hopi People by seven Hopi artists. Fields
of Grass (June 6—August 31) an exhibition of drawings,
watercolors, and prints of grasses by artists from the six-
teenth century to the present. The People of China (Sep-
tember 19—November 9), fifty oil portraits and sketches
of China’s ethnic minorities by Lunda Hoyle Gill. Bird
Carving in Wood by Ma Hai Feng (November 1-Decem-
ber 31, 1985). Antarctic Summer: Watercolors by Lucia
de Leiris (August 8—October 31, 1986). Thomas T.
Thompson Trilobite Collection (through 1986), the larg-
est and finest personal collection of North American
trilobites.

Teacher Workshops

Programs for teachers were a main focus of the muse-
um’s Office of Education. Programs and workshops de-
signed to assist teachers in using the museum as a re-
source for teaching the natural sciences were funded
through the Educational Outreach Fund and held in
Washington, D.C., and six other cities.
National Portrait Gallery

Two major sculpture exhibitions were highlights of fiscal
year 1986 at the National Portrait Gallery. Gaston
Lachaise: Portrait Sculpture was the first exhibition to
concentrate on the major role of portraiture in Lachaise’s
oeuvre, usually celebrated for the large female portraits
for which his wife served as the model.

John Frazee, Sculptor brought together the work of
the first American to fashion a portrait in marble and
the first to receive a commission from Congress to create
a sculpture for the U.S. Capitol. This exhibition was
co-organized with the Boston Athenaeum where it was
shown after it closed at the gallery.

Davy Crockett: Gentleman from the Cane commemo-
rated the bicentennial of the folk hero’s birth. The exhi-
bition included Crockett memorabilia relating to both
the man and the myth, first editions of his writings, and
the portraits of him by Chester Harding and James
Shegogue. Jointly organized by the National Portrait
Gallery and the Tennessee State Museum, the exhibition
moved to Nashville after its Washington showing.

Portraits by Brady: Imperial Prints from the Harvard
College Library was the first museum exhibition devoted
to the large format salt and albumen portrait prints that
represented the premier product of Mathew Brady’s gal-
leries during the Civil War era. The sixty prints exhibited
were selected from a collection of almost 500 donated by
a Harvard alumnus to the college libraries several de-
cades ago.

Through Light and Shadow: Photographs by Clara
Sipprell was an exhibition of twenty-nine portraits se-
lected from some 600 Sipprell photographs donated to
the National Portrait Gallery by the estate of Phyllis
Fenner, the photographer’s longtime companion. The
exhibition surveyed the forty years of Sipprell’s career.

Artists on Paper displayed portraits of American artists
selected from the gallery’s collections of prints, drawings,
and photographs; A Decade of Print Collecting: The
Highlights celebrated the ten years of the print depart-
ment’s existence, while portraits acquired by the gallery
during 1985 and 1986 were displayed in Recent Acquisi-
tions.

The American Art/Portrait Gallery Library partici-
pated in the Albert Bierstadt Cholooke, The Yosemite
Fall exhibition, organized by the Timken Art Gallery, San
Diego, by lending the 1872 edition of The Picturesque
America or the Land We Live In, edited by William
Cullen Bryant. In April 1986, the “Edgehill” portrait of
Thomas Jefferson by Gilbert Stuart left the gallery for a
three-year stay with its co-owners, the Thomas Jefferson
Foundation at Monticello. In May the Athenaeum por-

Pictured at the National Portrait Gallery’s “Evening with
Katherine Dunham,” April ro, 1986, are (left to right): Marc
Pachter, Assistant Director for History and Public Programs,
Katherine Dunham, and Director Alan Fern. (Photograph by Jeff
Tinsley)

traits of George and Martha Washington returned to the
National Portrait Gallery from Boston and began their
three-year residence in Washington.

In fiscal year 1986 the gallery purchased more than
200 works and received approximately sixty gifts.
Among the notable painted portraits are those of Talcott
Williams by Thomas Eakins, Willard Huntington Wright
(S. S. Van Dine) by his brother Stanton MacDonald-
Wright, and Thomas Sterns Eliot by Sir Gerald Kelly.
Two busts by Jo Davidson, of artist John Marin and la-
bor leader Andrew Furuseth, add to the gallery’s sub-
stantial holdings of work by this sculptor. Major prints
include Peter Pelham’s portrait of Cotton Mather, the
first engraving made in America; posters of dancers
Katherine Dunham and Josephine Baker; Anders Zorn’s
etching of collector Charles Deering; Mabel Dwight’s
lithograph of print curator Carl Zigrosser; and Robert
Rauschenberg’s lithograph of printer and dealer Tatyana
Grosman. The gallery also acquired a substantial num-
ber of drawings by the twentieth-century caricaturists
Henry Major and Herman Perlman. Major photographs
include the daguerreotype of Mathew Brady that is the

127
CHINESERRT =)

t Se ij,
ACHICA®

128
only authenticated portrait of Brady, and Man Ray’s por-
trait of Gertrude Stein.

The portrait of T. S. Eliot was purchased with the
support of the National Portrait Gallery Commission
and senior gallery staff in honor of Donald Klopfer, hus-
band of commission member Katie Louchheim Klopfer.
A grant from the James Smithson Society assisted with
the purchase of the portrait of Willard Huntington
Wright. The acquisition of the Talcott Williams portrait
was also assisted by the James Smithson Society and the
Kate and Laurens Seelye family.

The Catalog of American Portraits—a research center
within the National Portrait Gallery—completed a field
survey of Texas, New Mexico, and Oklahoma in 1986.
Major collections in the University of Pennsylvania and
the U.S. Naval Academy were added to the files. The
Peale Papers staff continued transcribing, researching,
and annotating selected letters and documents of Charles
Willson Peale and his artist sons Raphaelle and
Rembrandt.

Publications produced in connection with exhibitions
were: Gaston Lachaise: Portrait Sculpture, published
with the Smithsonian Institution Press and supported in
part by a grant from the Lachaise Foundation; John
Frazee, Sculptor, published jointly by the gallery and the
Boston Athenaeum; Davy Crockett: Gentleman from the
Cane, a joint publication of the gallery and the Tennessee
State Museum; and a brochure for Through Light and
Shadow: Photographs by Clara Sipprell. The gallery’s
general information brochure was redesigned and
reprinted this year with funds provided by the T. M.
Evans Foundation, Inc.

Exhibitions and permanent installations were accom-
panied by programs organized by the Education Depart-
ment as diverse as a film series highlighting The Friends
of Gaston Lachaise; Lunchtime Lectures offered by the
curators; and a Cafe Concert highlighting the gallery’s
prized portrait of Mary Cassatt by Edgar Degas. Note-
worthy this year was a lecture by the eminent British
author Nigel Nicolson on the special bonds between
American and English cultures at the turn of the century,
saluting the National Gallery’s Treasure Houses of Brit-
ain exhibition, and a presentation by American author

The purchase of this oil-on-canvas portrait of T. S. Eliot by Sir
Gerald Kelly for the National Portrait Gallery was made possible
by the generosity of the National Portrait Gallery Commissioners
and senior staff in memory of Donald Klopfer. (Photograph by
Eugene Mantie)

Garry Wills on the imagery of George and Martha Wash-
ington, in honor of the return of the portraits to the gal-
lery—both cosponsored by the Smithsonian Resident As-
sociate Program. Also complementing the Treasure
Houses exhibition were Lunchtime Lectures, “The
English Connection: America’s Lingering Ties of Affec-
tion with Great Britain” and “The English Accent in
American Portraiture.” The Education Department con-
tinued its Portraits in Motion series, providing theatrical
portraits of such figures as Thomas Jefferson and Paul
Robeson, and inaugurated such new programs as an
American storytelling series and the presentation of
Hughie, a short play by Eugene O’Neill, performed in
American Sign Language by a member of the National
Theatre of the Deaf.

After a one-year hiatus, the gallery reinstituted the
Living Self-Portrait series of interviews with notable
Americans, beginning with an evening with philosopher
Mortimer Adler, cosponsored by the National Museum
of American Art, followed in the spring by an evening
with distinguished ethnographer and dancer Katherine
Dunham.

129
Office of Exhibits Central

The Office of Exhibits Central (OEC) continues to re-
flect the diversity of the Smithsonian by providing spe-
cialized exhibit and exhibit-related services for nearly all
of the Smithsonian museums and bureaus. The over 200
projects completed each year support research, public
information, as well as exhibit and exhibition efforts
throughout the Smithsonian.

For the National Museum of American History’s exhi-
bition Engines of Change, the OEC Model Shop pre-
pared six all-white mannequins, which demanded ex-
traordinary attention to surface texture and detail. Life
masks, hands, and most of the clothing were made at
the office.

For the National Museum of Natural History, the
Model Shop made casts of several specimens for scien-
tific study; among them were three very detailed epoxy
resin casts of a jade Tuxtla statuette. The Model Shop
also produced replicas of Eskimo snow goggles and a
doll for the Discovery Room, and the office’s editorial
staff provided assistance for the Antarctic Summer ex-
hibit.

For the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition
Service alone, the office produced twenty new exhibits.
One of the most comprehensive was Community Indus-
tries of the Shakers: A New Look, for which the office
designed the exhibition, edited the script, fabricated
eleven freestanding custom-built exhibit cases and fifteen
platforms with back walls, silk-screened over thirty-five
didactic panels and individual labels for each of the 250
artifacts, and packed the entire exhibition in thirty-eight
custom-made shipping containers. Art Nouveau Bing:
The Paris Style 1900 was another large exhibition for
SITES, composed about 200 artifacts (furniture, tex-
tiles, ceramics, and works on paper) from collections in
France, Germany, Scandinavia, and the United States.
This exhibition, like the Shaker exhibition, required the
efforts of all OEC units.

A brief list of other projects completed in fiscal year
1986 will illustrate the variety of tasks handled by the
office each year: the Discover Graphics exhibit for the
Smithsonian Resident Associate Program; the Poster
Contest exhibit for Reading Is Fundamental; twenty to
thirty Plexiglas book stands for the Dibner Library; ex-
hibit vitrines for the National Portrait Gallery and the
Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden; fiberglass
casts of three tombstones for the John Frazee exhibition
at the National Portrait Gallery; an exhibit about the
orchid collection for the Office of Horticulture; graphics
for the Folklife Festival; a variety of support for the
Christmas Dance and Craft Show organized by the

130

Women’s Committee of the Smithsonian Associates; and
a planning model of the Castle for the Visitor Informa-
tion and Associates’ Reception Center.

Of special note in fiscal year 1986 was the retirement
of three longtime Smithsonian employees at OEC. Wil-
liam Clark, OEC administrative officer, retired after
twenty-two years at the Smithsonian. John Widener, who
came to the Institution in 1957 as a plastics consultant,
retired as chief of production. And James A. Mahoney,
director of OEC since 1974, retired after twenty-eight
years at the Smithsonian.
Office of Horticulture

During 1985, the Office of Horticulture completed a reor-
ganization, and strengthened the ability to provide a full
range of horticultural services to the bureaus, to manage
the grounds of all museum facilities, and to develop edu-
cational outreach programs.

To prepare for the opening of the quadrangle, the ex-
isting greenhouses were reorganized, and two additional
houses were purchased. Throughout the year, the office
supervised the selection and delivery of trees, and the
restoration of the important collection of garden furnish-
ings to be installed in the Enid A. Haupt Garden. Dur-
ing the course of the year, director James R. Buckler and
museum specialist Mrs. Kathryn Meehan, on behalf of
the Secretary, kept Mrs. Enid A. Haupt informed on the
progress of the installation of plants and furnishings for
the new garden, named in her honor, scheduled to open
in spring 1987. Coordination was begun with the Office
of Exhibits Central on the design of an exhibition pre-
viewing the garden.

Mr. Kenneth Hawkins, Grounds Management Division
foreman, continued to oversee the grounds and their
plant collections. Special projects included the design and
installation of landscaping at the Anacostia Neighbor-
hood Museum Annex, replanting the Ninth Street peren-
nial border, continued refinement of the plantings and
their labeling in the Fragrant Garden, and the installa-
tion of over 16,000 pansies, 45,000 spring bulbs, and
35,000 annuals.

Mr. August Dietz, Greenhouse Nursery Division man-
ager, supervised the production of over 70,000 annuals;
the management of permanent collections of over 30,000
orchids, 250 bromeliads, and r1o ivies; rotation of over
4,500 tropical plants, assembly and delivery of 384 floral
arrangements and 3,000 potted plants for special events,
and computer input of over 11,000 data entries. The ad-
dition of over 2,850 volunteer hours and the assistance of
interns permitted the Greenhouse Nursery Division to
complete its work with limited manpower resources.

A grant of $15,000 from the James Smithson Society
will be used to document images of gardens for preserva-
tion on a laser disc. The first collection to be treated will
be the Slide Library of Notable American Parks and Gar-
dens, assembled by the Garden Club of America. A
$3,000 gift from the Women’s Committee of the
Smithsonian Associates funded a gardener’s internship to
maintain the Fragrant Garden.

Five interns participated in the office’s 1986 summer
internship program. Educational outreach programs in-
cluded the ninth annual Trees of Christmas exhibition,
which displayed thirteen new collections of ornaments.

~~

:
Ci a AE AG UE Oe

“Nature’s Bounty” was one of the trees in the Trees of Christmas
exhibition held at the National Museum of American History,
December 20, 1985, through January 6, 1986.

Dixie Rettig, an office volunteer, assisted Lauranne C.
Nash with its coordination. Over 1,200 volunteers cre-
ated the 4,600 ornaments. Barbara Restum, Jane Cronin,
and Bonnie Hooker also helped with the installation.

Grasses of the World was developed with the Depart-
ment of Botany, and Tropical Plants for Indoor Use with
the Department of Exhibits, National Museum of Natu-
ral History. Two exhibitions of orchids at the Maryland
Orchid Society Show took first place for the best Phalae-
nopsis and second place for best display; and at the Na-
tional Capital Orchid Society Show, the office installed
an exhibition of specimen orchids and an educational
display, mounted by the Office of Exhibits Central.

The film Horticulture in a Museum Setting was pro-
duced with the Office of Museum Programs, narrated by
Mr. Buckler.

131

Office of Museum Programs

y
a

=a t
Rap

m Vpve ~

y
x *,..

wn

VV
¢

Laura Schneider of the Office of Museum Programs is seen in the
center of activity during a filming production of an Office of
Horticulture project.

The Office of Museum Programs (OMP), directed by
Jane R. Glaser, continued to offer programs of training,
services, information, and assistance through workshops,
the Native American Museums Program, the Audiovisual
Program, internships, the Visiting Professionals Program,
the Kellogg Project, the Museum Reference Center, and
the Awards for Minority Museum Professionals.

The workshop series included thirty courses on topics
of museum operations and were offered at the Smith-
sonian, utilizing Institution staff as well as outside ex-
perts. Fifteen on-site workshops were given in collabora-
tion with regional, state, and national organizations.
Highlights for 1986 included a joint OMP/ African Amer-
ican Museums Association on-site workshop for teams of
museum directors and trustees, supported by the Smith-
sonian Education Outreach Funds, and the conference
on “Women’s Changing Roles in Museums,” cosponsored
by the Smithsonian Institution Women’s Council.

The Native American Museums Program continued to
support this special constituency through on-site activi-
ties and through a publications exchange program. High-
lights included the Native American Archives Advisory

132

Conference to assess needs and recommend actions to
preserve documentary heritage, and the Design and Pro-
duction of Exhibitions Project, made up of three compo-
nents: workshop, practicum, and evaluation.

The Audiovisual Program continued to provide video-
tape and slide programs, for loan and sale, on topics
such as preventive care of collections, education, secu-
rity, museum careers, and folk life. A new film on his-
toric house museums, A Living Legacy: The Woodrow
Wilson House Museum, was completed. Several projects
initiated in 1986 explored topics such as museum light-
ing; Conservation in art museums; film/videotape pro-
ductions on “Horticulture in a Museum Setting,” pro-
duced in collaboration with the Office of Horticulture
using Education Outreach Funds; and learning in muse-
ums with the Kellogg Project.

The internship program placed more than 125 people
throughout the Institution, including fifty-eight students
from the District of Columbia Multicultural Bilingual
High School into Junior Externships.

The Visiting Professionals Program continued to meet
the needs of more than 169 museum professionals
through short-term appointments. Itineraries for visits to
museums throughout the United States were arranged
upon request. In collaboration with the U.S. Information
Agency, the office held three thirty-day group visits to
bring twenty-eight outstanding museum leaders and spe-
cialists from abroad to share and consult with American
colleagues on issues such as museum management and
education.

The Museum Reference Center, a branch of the
Smithsonian Institution Libraries, answered more than
2,500 inquiries for research information on museum is-
sues. Thirteen new bibliographies were prepared—bring-
ing the total available to seventy—providing up-to-date
information on museum ethics, technology and comput-
ers in the museum environment, and museum manage-
ment.

The Kellogg Project received a second three-year grant
to expand the educational influence of museums nation-
ally. Highlights for fiscal year 1986 included the Interna-
tional Congress on Learning in Museums, sponsored
with the Indianapolis Children’s Museum, and two
groups of residencies for Museum Professionals at the
Smithsonian.

The Awards for Minority Museum Professionals sup-
ported $500 grants to twenty-six individuals so that they
could attend a workshop of their choice. In addition,
each recipient was able to spend a week in residence at
the Institution as a visiting professional.
Office of the Registrar

During fiscal year 1986, Mary E. Case became the new
director of the office following Philip Leslie’s retirement.
Ms. Case came to the Institution with experience in his-
tory, art, and scientific collections; permanent and travel-
ing collections; and automation and project manage-
ment. Ms. Case hired Joseph L. Wiley from the National
Museum of American History to assist her.

The office began to assume expanded responsibility
for oversight of Institution-wide collections management
issues. The oversight and governance of the automated
Collection Information System (CIS) has taken priority.
Every bureau of the Smithsonian is involved in the
project through representation on the governing CIS
committee and through constant interaction with the
Office of Information Resource Management which
maintains the central computing facility.

Working with the Office of Museum Programs (OMP),
the office established a program to restructure several
annual workshops produced by OMP. Workshop topics
include registration methods; storage and handling; de-
veloping, managing, and maintaining collections; and
computers in collections management and research.

The office continues its involvement in collections
management policy development and oversight, as well
as in Institution procedures for accessions, cataloguing,
and deaccessions.

A new vitality instilled into the Registrar’s Council in-
creased its visibility, voice, and enthusiasm. Monthly
programs included informational sessions on repatriation
of cultural property, training programs, legislative devel-
opments, risk management, and museum ethics.

Smithsonian Institution
Traveling Exhibition Service

Peggy A. Loar, director of the Smithsonian Institution Traveling
Exhibition Service, and (to her right) Zachary Morfogen, direc-
tor of Corporate Cultural Affairs for Time Inc., greet guests at
the opening of the exhibition Hollywood: Legend and Reality in
April 1986.

For the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Serv-
ice (SITES), 1986 was dominated by the final production
phases and opening installations of Hollywood: Legend
and Reality at two Smithsonian museums. The exhibi-
tion was made possible by the generous support of
Time, Inc. For the April 1986 opening at the National
Museum of American History, SITES staff collected
more than 400 objects; arranged for exhibition design
and, with the Office of Exhibits Central, for exhibition
production; assisted the Smithsonian Resident Associate
Program and the American Film Institute Theater with
planning of public programs; published an accompany-
ing book with New York Graphic Society; prepared and
published the gallery brochure; and worked with Acous-
tiguide to prepare the audio tour. The exhibition was
viewed by 212,000 people in Washington. Following the
New York showing at the Cooper-Hewitt Museum, the
exhibition will travel to four U.S. cities.

Renaissance Master Bronzes, consisting of seventy-five
works from the Kunsthistorisches Museum, Vienna,
opened its limited tour at the National Gallery of Art.
The exhibition catalogue was published with Scala
Books. And Art Nouveau Bing: The Paris Style 1900 be-
gan its tour to Richmond. Gathered from public and pri-
vate collections in Europe and America, the exhibition

133

documents new research of Siegfried Bing’s role in the
development of twentieth-century decorative arts. Guest
curator Gabriel Weisberg’s extensive findings are further
presented in the book SITES copublished with Harry N.
Abrams.

Swiss connoisseur Samuel Josefowitz made his exten-
sive collection available for a U.S. and an international
tour of Gauguin and His Circle in Brittany: Prints of the
Pont-Aven School, which opened at the Rijksmuseum
Vincent Van Gogh in Amsterdam. The Master Weavers
was prepared as part of the Festival of India celebra-
tions. Haiti: The First Black Republic and Its Monu-
ments to Freedom was conceived as part of the Quincen-
tennial observances. Spectacular and unusual materials
for the study and appreciation of diverse cultures marked
the content of Treasures from the Land: New Zealand
Craftsmen and Their Native Materials and Treasures of
Hungary: Gold and Silver from the Ninth to the Nine-
teenth Century.

SITES collaborated with other museums to present
American Master Drawings: Selections from the Corco-
ran Gallery of Art, Anasazi World (Maxwell Museum of
Anthropology, University of New Mexico), Mark Twain
and Huck Finn: Joy-Flags and Milestones (Mark Twain
Memorial with National Geographic), and Contempo-
rary Print Images: Works by Afro-American Artists from
the Brandywine Workshop. Additional offerings in Black
studies included Anacostia Neighborhood Museum’s re-
vised version of Black Women and a new panel exhibi-
tion based on The Art of Cameroon, a SITES interna-
tional loan exhibition.

With the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden,
SITES organized Surrealist Art; with the National Mu-
seum of American History, After the Revolution and EI-
eanor Roosevelt; and with the National Museum of Nat-
ural History, Drawn from the Sea.

SITES exhibitions were hosted by a range of foreign
cities. Ban Chiang: Discovery of a Lost Bronze Age was
shown at the National Museum of Singapore before its
permanent installation in Ban Chiang, Thailand. Recent
American Works on Paper was shown in New Delhi, In-
dia, under the auspices of the U.S. Information Agency.
Mouton Rothschild: Paintings for the Labels traveled to
the Victoria and Albert Museum in London; An Age of

This exquisite bronze statuette, Vers Urania, 1573, by Giambo-
logna (1529-1608), is part of the SITES exhibition Renaissance
Master Bronzes from the Collections of the Kunsthistorisches
Museum, Vienna.

134

Gold: Three Centuries of Paintings from Old Ecuador to
San Juan, Puerto Rico; Jamaican Art traveled to Port-au-
Prince, Haiti; and The Artist and the Space Shuttle was
shown in Tokyo.

Russia: The Land, the People 1850-1910 opened in
October 1986 at the Renwick Gallery, marking the first
exhibition exchange with the Soviet Union since the sign-
ing of a cultural agreement in November 1985. As part of
the exchange, SITES organized New Horizons: American
Painting 1840-1910 for tour in the Soviet Union.

Exhibitions Beginning Tours October 1, 1985, through
September 30, 1985

After the Revolution: Everyday Life in America,
1780-1800

American Master Drawings from the Corcoran Gallery
of Art

Anasazi World

Art Nouveau Bing: The Paris Style 1900

The Art of Cameroon Grassfields

Black Women: Achievements Against the Odds

Carnegie Libraries: A Sesquicentennial Celebration

Community Industries of the Shakers

Contemporary Print Images: Works by Afro-American
Artists from the Brandywine Workshop

Drawn from the Sea: Art in the Service of Ichthyology

Eleanor Roosevelt: First Person Singular

European Illustration: 1974-1984

Five Centuries of Italian Textiles

French Cinema Posters, 1924-1939: The Art of Jean A.
Mercier

Gauguin and His Circle in Brittany: Prints of the Pont-
Aven School

Haiti: The First Black Republic and Its Monuments to
Freedom

Hollywood: Legend and Reality

John Held’s America: Flappers, the Jazz Age, and
Beyond

Mark Twain and Huck Finn: Joy-Flags and Milestones

The Master Weavers

Out of Africa

Renaissance Master Bronzes from the Collections of the
Kunsthistorisches Museum, Vienna

The Santa Fe Trail Series: Photographs by Joan Myers

Surrealist Art: Selections from the Hirshhorn Museum
and Sculpture Garden

Treasures from the Land: New Zealand Craftsmen and
Their Native Materials

Treasures of Hungary: Gold and Silver from the Ninth to
the Nineteenth Century

Tours for Period October 1, 1985, through September 30,
1986

Number of bookings 357
Number of states served
(including Washington, D.C.) 46

Estimated audience 5 million
Exhibitions listed in last Update
(catalogue of SITES exhibitions) 113

Exhibitions produced for tour during this year 26

135)
PUBIC SERVICE

Ralph C. Rinzler, Assistant Secretary for Public Service

437
Office of the Committee for a
Wider Audience

The Office of the Committee for a Wider Audience
(OCWA) was established in June 1986 to formalize the
work of the ad hoc Committee for a Wider Audience,
which was established in 1983 to evaluate Smithsonian
programs and exhibitions and to make recommendations
for improving the Institution’s capacity to serve a more
varied and diversified American and international public.

In pursuit of these objectives, the office and its advi-
sory committee members have visited most of the Institu-
tion’s museums and offices. Following these visits, the
office communicated to museum and office directors and
staffs the committee’s impressions of exhibitions and pro-
grams, as seen from the point of view of audiences
whose outlook and cultural backgrounds have not con-
formed to those of traditional Smithsonian audiences.

The office’s advisory committee is composed of seven
Smithsonian staff members and seven people from out-
side the Institution representing Native Americans, Black
Americans, Hispanic Americans, and Asian Americans.

The year began with the establishment of an
Institution-wide network of OCWA liaison officers. In
addition, the office initiated a major project, “Towards a
Comprehensive Smithsonian Wider Audience Develop-
ment Plan,” which includes the following activities: 1)
Museums and New Audiences: A Planning Conference.
The office will convene selected scholars, museum educa-
tors, public relations and media specialists, and special-
ists in audience development to discuss and formulate
techniques for developing new audiences. 2) Publication
of a “How To” manual for attracting wider audiences.

3) Inauguration of the Smithsonian Cultural Education
Committee. This muJticultural, multiracial committee of
citizens in the Washington metropolitan area will assist
the Institution in developing community networks, pro-
gram development, and fund-raising.

The office continues to execute these plans and to or-
ganize its worth on the perspective that successful wider
audience participation in the Institution’s programs is
ultimately related to excellent scholarship, interpretation,
and conscientious diffusion of knowledge and informa-
tion that reflects the contributions of all cultural commu-
nities to history and culture.

Office of Elementary and
Secondary Education

A firm belief in the power of museum objects as educa-
tional resources is the guiding principle behind the activi-
ties of the Office of Elementary and Secondary Educa-
tion (OESE). Through its programs and publications,
the OESE works with other Smithsonian education of-
fices to foster the educational uses of museums locally
and throughout the nation.

OESE seminars and courses for teachers demonstrate
how to teach by using a museum-oriented approach. In
1986, a series of ten summer seminars in history, art, and
science provided professional training for more than 300
Washington, D.C., area educators. In addition, two
graduate-level courses, “Using Museums to Teach Writ-
ing” and “Using Museums to Teach Social Studies,” were
offered to teachers from across the nation. And the of-
fice developed a pilot Teacher Intern Program to build on
the work of its Regional Workshop Program. Coming
from across the country, the teacher interns spent four
weeks at the Smithsonian, earning graduate credits while
working behind the scenes; upon returning home, they
began to serve in a continuing way as resource people to
strengthen relations between museums and schools in
their communities.

Publications designed to help teachers use museums
and other community resources with their students are a
key aspect of OESE programming. In additicn to its reg-
ular periodicals, Let’s Go to the Smithsonian and Art to
Zoo, the office produced Smithsonian Spectrum, a bro-
chure advertising programs of the Smithsonian education
departments in the Washington area. For junior high
school readers, Journeys, a pilot magazine published in
cooperation with the Office of Public Affairs, discussed
the history of the r950s. For senior high school science
teachers, a teacher’s guide explained how to use a
Smithsonian World television show to assist classroom
work.

In addition to continuing its work in making programs
and exhibitions accessible to disabled visitors here at the
Smithsonian, the office is producing a docent training
manual, to be accompanied by a videotape, to encourage
accessibility in museums across the United States. For
learning disabled students, a curriculum kit designed to
teach concepts of historical time is being developed.

During the 1985—86 school year, OESE expanded its
programs for young people. The Career Awareness Pro-
gram—part of the Institution’s affirmative action effort—
offered summer placements for program graduates, giv-
ing them an opportunity to deepen their career aware-
ness while serving as volunteers or as paid interns. The
“Exploring the Smithsonian” program brought more

than 5,400 District of Columbia public junior high
school students to the museums for curriculum-related
lessons. And the Summer Intern Program—which places
outstanding high school graduates in curatorial or tech-
nical offices—brought forty young people to the Institu-
tion from across the United States.

Through teacher training programs, publications, spe-
cial education programs, and precollege training for
young people, OESE continues to help teachers and stu-
dents effectively use museums as educational resources.

An Office of Elementary and Secondary Education high school
summer intern tests the salinity of water from an exhibit at the
Marine Systems Laboratory at the National Museum of Natural
History. (Photograph by Laura Scott)

Office of Folklife Programs

Most Americans would agree that the richness of the
nation’s culture lies in the impressive diversity of its peo-
ple and in their creative responses to historical condi-
tions. Research, presentation, and preservation of this
cultural wealth is the goal of the Office of Folklife Pro-
grams—an effort that entails, among other activities, the
presentation of living folk traditions in the context of the
national museum. Since its inception, the office has di-
rected its attention to the identification and study of folk
traditions and to the development of methods for pre-
senting them in a national setting to general audiences.
The Office of Folklife Programs also cooperates with
other Smithsonian bureaus in research and exhibit pro-
duction; it publishes documentary and analytic studies,
and its staff undertakes both exhibition-oriented and
publication-oriented research.

Festival of American Folklife

The Office of Folklife Programs planned and produced
the twentieth annual Festival of American Folklife which
took place June 25-29 and July 2-6, 1986. Cosponsored
by the National Park Service, this year’s festival featured
folklife from Japan, Tennessee folklife, American trial
lawyers, cultural conservation, and evening dance par-
ties. More than one million people attended the festival.

“Rice in Japanese Folk Culture” presented sixty-five
Japanese and Japanese-American folk artists who dem-
onstrated the importance of rice in their crafts, perfor-
mances, and food preparations in a Japanese village
environment. Featured were a rice paddy where a tradi-
tional planting ceremony took place daily, a children’s
area, and a shrine.

The diversity of Tennessee’s cultural ecology was ex-
amined with ninety representatives who presented their
occupational crafts and food traditions indigenous to
mountain, plateau, and riverine areas. The state’s rich
musical heritage was highlighted with traditional music
styles as expressed in old-time country music, gospel,
Memphis blues, and rockabilly.

The artistry and lore of trial lawyers was presented by
thirty-five participants from around the country. This
popular and critically acclaimed program—developed in
terms of the office’s innovative model for the presenta-
tion of occupational folklife—featured advocates who
argued hypothetical civil and criminal cases, demonstrat-
ing their narrational, dramatic, and logical skills.

“Cultural Conservation: Traditional Crafts in a Post-
Industrial Age” presented forty craftspeople, from a vari-

139
Tabayashi, the ritual rice-planting ceremony, is performed by several Japanese participants in the rice paddy built for the Japan program
of the twentieth annual Festival of American Folklife that took place June 25-29 and July 2-6 on the National Mall.

ety of indigenous and ethnic communities in the United
States, who shared with audiences their efforts to main-
tain their craft-making legacy in contemporary American
society. Featured traditions included Cherokee basketry,
Hispanic weaving and wood carving, Hmong embroi-
dery, Afro-American quilting, and Italian-American stone
carving.

In celebration of the festival’s twentieth anniversary,
thirty-five artists who have had a significant impact on
the festival and in their own communities presented all-
day concerts. Traditional musicians drew the significant
participation of local ethnic communities in dance parties
held during festival evenings.

Research

Research, writing, and production continued on mono-
graphs and accompanying films included in the
Smithsonian Folklife Studies series. Established in 1978,
this innovative series combines book-length monographs
with accompanying ethnographic films to document and
analyze particular traditions more fully than would be
possible with either medium used alone. A session de-
voted to the series was held at the annual meeting of the
American Anthropological Association.

Development continued on collaborative research
projects regarding music and agriculture in the Americas,

140

Arab Gulf States folklife, and Pakistani ethnography.

Staff research on African epics, South Asian folk arts

and folk agriculture, U.S. Gulf Coast culture, Native

American wild rice use, the culture of Hispanic bread
making, Black expressive culture, and folklore of the

aging resulted in numerous publications and presenta-
tions to diverse audiences.

The Stone Carvers, a film by Majorie Hunt and Paul
Wagner, was awarded an Emmy Award for best direction
in the short documentary category by the Academy for
Television Arts and Sciences. The film, highlighting car-
vers at the Washington Cathedral, grew out of 1978 and
1979 festival programs.
Office of Public Affairs

The Office of Public Affairs acquaints the public, via the
communications media and other means, with the
Smithsonian’s research, exhibitions, and permanent col-
lections. The office also oversees Institution-wide infor-
mation programs.

As part of its ongoing commitment to reach an ever-
wider audience, the office launched the Hispanic edition
of the Smithsonian News Service. The Hispanic edition,
a two-year project funded by the Educational Outreach
Fund, is distributed free to eighty Spanish-language
newspapers in nineteen states, Washington, D.C., Puerto
Rico, Canada, and Colombia. Thirty-two additional
Hispanic newspapers currently receive the News Service
in English.

The News Service, inaugurated in October 1979, con-
sists of four bylined feature articles each month. Stories
cover topics in art, history, contemporary life, science,
technology, and the environment. Among the forty-eight
timely articles of fiscal year 1986 were features on earth-
quakes, the American tourist, the Harlem Renaissance,
and the art of advertising. The News Service is distrib-
uted free to more than 1,550 daily and weekly newspa-
pers. Among other new subscribers this year was Navajo
Times Today, the daily newspaper of the Navajo Nation.

The News Service also joined the Electronic Age this
year when it began offering the English-language edition
to newspapers via Associated Press DataFeature, a com-
puterized wire service distributing syndicated columns
worldwide. For a modest charge, subscribing newspapers
conveniently receive the monthly edition of articles by
computer from Associated Press, thus eliminating re-
keyboarding.

During the year, the office issued more than 500 news
releases on Smithsonian activities and also provided pub-
licity assistance to other Smithsonian bureaus and of-
fices. The office planned and implemented major public-
ity campaigns for the National Museum of American
History’s Information Revolution exhibition, the Arthur
M. Sackler Gallery’s acquisition of the Vever Collection
of Islamic and Persian paintings and manuscripts, the
Office of Folklife Programs’ Festival of American Folk-
life, and the Directorate of International Activities’ Na-
tional Forum on BioDiversity, cosponsored with the Na-
tional Academy of Sciences.

The office organized a behind-the-scenes day for fea-
ture writers at the Smithsonian Environmental Research
Center in Edgewater, Maryland, and prepared a public-
ity campaign for the tenth anniversary of the Dibner Li-
brary of rare books related to science and technology.
Publicity materials prepared in the office stimulated me-

dia interest in the quadrangle complex and in the Chi-
cago and Philadelphia Documentation Projects,
conducted by the Archives of American Art to identify
art-related materials in city cultural institutions.

To encourage visits to the Smithsonian from nearby
regions, the office produced a thirty-second public serv-
ice announcement for television. The announcement in-
vited visitors to discover “what’s new” at the Smithson-
ian during the less-crowded fall and winter seasons.

The office’s publications program produced a rede-
signed calendar of Smithsonian events which appears
monthly in the Washington Post and is distributed locally
to nearly 1,100 civic organizations. The Torch, the
Smithsonian’s monthly staff newspaper, and the
Smithsonian News Service received top honors in the
Society for Technical Communications International Pub-
lications Competition and in the National Association of
Government Communicators’ Blue Pencil competition.
The circulation of Research Reports—an award-winning
periodical describing Institution-related research in the
sciences, art, and history—rose by more than 10,000 to
reach 45,500. The office redesigned and updated Yester-
day and Today, a guide to the Smithsonian for journal-
ists, and produced brochures for the Department of Bot-
any and the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute.

141
Office of Smithsonian
Symposia and Seminars

we Education Bullding - National Zoological Park - Serithecrion Institution ee

This “class portrait” was taken of participants in the “Man and Beast

The office undertook a series of related initiatives to
more effectively pursue its specialized functions on behalf
of the Institution. The guiding principle behind such pro-
grams was stated by Joseph Henry more than a century
ago: “knowledge should not be viewed as existing in iso-
lated parts, but as a whole, each portion of which
throws light on all others. . . “» A new emphasis on the
integration of knowledge, coming from the sciences and
the humanities, reaffirms this wholeness of scholarly out-
look. The office launched an endowment campaign and
has plans for an intramural, interdisciplinary faculty en-
richment seminar series for Smithsonian staff and fellows
and will reflect its ongoing purposes in its new name, the
Office of Interdisciplinary Studies, effective in December
1986.

The office’s two major programs this year commemo-
rated important events in history by exploring current
developments in research. “Liberty: As Idea, Icon, and
Engineering Feat,” a colloquium held October rg at the
Cooper-Hewitt Museum in New York, examined the im-
plications of the Statue of Liberty’s centennial for intel-
lectual and immigration history, technology, and cultural
diplomacy. Wilton S. Dillon, director of the office, and
Neil G. Kotler will edit an anthology on the colloquium
for the Smithsonian Institution Press. “Man and Beast
Revisited,” held May 5-6, was organized as a sequel to

142

Revisited” symposium held May 6-9, 1986.

the Smithsonian’s acclaimed 1969 symposium “Man and
Beast: Comparative Social Behavior.” Symposium Chair-
man and National Zoological Park Director Michael H.
Robinson said, “Significant changes in our state of
knowledge, the intellectual climate, and the state of the
world in which man and beast coexist more than justify
a new look at the subject.” In working sessions at the
Conservation and Research Center in Front Royal, Vir-
ginia, and a public forum at the National Zoo, alumni
and other scholars examined aspects of sociobiology;
genetics; evolution; the role of language, myths, and
symbols in distinguishing humans from other animals;
the mental health implications of human-pet bonding;
and the urgent need for more research in these funda-
mental areas. Theories and data advanced at the sympo-
sium will appear in a book edited by Dr. Robinson and
Lionel Tiger.

High Technology and Human Freedom, edited by
Lewis H. Lapham, from the 1983 international sympo-
sium “The Road After 1984: High Technology and Hu-
man Freedom”—which was a tribute to George Orwell—
was published by the Smithsonian Institution Press. An-
other group of essays is being assembled for publication
by Robert S. Peck, director of the American Bar Associa-
tion’s Commission on Public Understanding About the
Law. The working title for the collection is Governing A

Changing Society: Constitutionalism and the Challenges
of New Technology.

The ninth international Smithsonian symposium “Con-
stitutional Roots, Rights, and Responsibilities” is sched-
uled for May 18-23, 1987, in Charlottesville, Virginia,
and Washington, D.C. The University of Virginia and
the American Bar Association are the principal collabo-
rators of this symposium commemorating the U.S. Con-
stitution’s bicentennial. Continuing meetings engaging
scholars and arranging financial support have included
liason with universities in the United States, Scotland,
and elsewhere in Europe. A distinctive feature of the
symposium will be its international context, as the U.S.
Constitution is the culmination of the ideas and influ-
ences of many peoples, and it in turn has helped shape
the political life of diverse nations.

Work on the Festival of India symposium volume is
nearing completion under the editorship of Carla M.
Borden. The Smithsonian Institution Press is expected to
publish the volume in fall 1987, and discussions are un-
der way for an Indian edition. British architectural histo-
rian Caroline Stanley-Millson gave a lecture on Novem-
ber 6 on shrines and dwellings of south Indian tribal
groups she has studied.

New projects include a symposium to deal with the
implications of new technologies for leisure and creativ-
ity in the arts, as part of the opening of the Arthur M.
Sackler Gallery of Asian art, and a symposium to accom-
pany the presentation of the first General Foods World
Food Prize in October 1987, in conjunction with the
Winrock International Institute for Agricultural Develop-
ment.

Office of Telecommunications

Continuing its primary mission, the Office of Telecom-
munications (OTC) extended the benefits of the Institu-
tion’s research and knowledge to the American people
through distinctive films, radio, and television programs.

“Here at the Smithsonian,” the series of short features
for television based on Smithsonian scholarship, launched
its fifth season with a record-breaking number of sub-
scribing television stations—up from 75 to 180. The se-
ries was offered on the PBS satellite for the first time,
enabling the office to use more timely material and reach
a larger market more economically. “Here at the
Smithsonian” reaches 50 percent of the prime-time view-
ing audience across the United States, according to the
National Academy of Television Arts and Sciences.

The office intensified its distribution efforts for
Smithsonian films and video programs with gratifying
results. Direct sales to television and the educational
market provided modest trust fund revenues. With this
arrangement future productions can rely more heavily on
these funds rather than other sources. The new methods
of distribution also mean increased audiences in school
systems and in specialized settings such as scientific soci-
eties and professional organizations.

Based on intensive research and consultation with

N

Office of Telecommunications’ cameraman John Hiller and pro-
ducer Lee Cioffi videotape the activities at the 1986 Festival of
American Folklife for the office’s national series of television
shorts “Here at the Smithsonian.” Working with them is sound
recordist Alan Perry.

143
Smithsonian educators, professionals at the National Ed-
ucation Association, and members of Harvard’s graduate
education faculty, a pilot program for a children’s televi-
sion series titled “Smithsonian Quest” was completed.
The pilot drew upon the expertise of Smithsonian cura-
tors and scientists, providing information in a lively and
entertaining manner. Aimed at nine-to-twelve-year-olds,
the pilot is being evaluated by broadcast programmers
and education experts to determine the next steps for an
ongoing series that would share the Institution’s scholar-
ship with a young constituency.

The office’s commitment to assist other bureaus with
their audiovisual needs was given added scope when all
of the unit’s staff were relocated to a newly constructed
complex in the National Museum of American History.
With more efficient studios, editing rooms, and offices,
OTC can better serve in-house clients. Services ranging
from creating short exhibit films to preparing archival
recordings are performed on a frequent basis.

“Radio Smithsonian,’ a weekly thirty-minute series,
continues as the most long-standing OTC broadcast ef-
fort. Now in its seventeenth year, the series has become
a staple for many member stations of National Public
Radio—with a potential weekly listenership of four mil-
lion people. Subscription fees now bring in more than
half the production costs. “Smithsonian Galaxy,” a series
of short radio features, continues with 230 subscribing
stations in the United States and around the world.

Eight film festivals recognized OTC productions with
awards this year. Significantly, many of these honors
came in the categories of environmental conservation,
maritime sciences, and ecology—demonstrating the con-
tribution these films make to the layman’s understanding
of issues that affect mankind on a global scale.

The office produced the Smithsonian’s first live tele-
conference for the Directorate of International Activities.
The final event of the four-day National Forum on Bio-
Diversity cosponsored by the National Academy of Sci-
ences and the Institution, this two-hour program was
telecast via satellite to more than a hundred downlink
sites on university campuses nationwide. Distinguished
panelists spoke on the critical issues of rapid destruction
of the Earth’s natural habitats and the subsequent loss of
plants and animals. The teleconference offered an un-
precedented opportunity for students, educators, policy-
makers, and the general public to phone in questions on
this timely issue. As well as producing the teleconfer-
ence, the office coordinated the many sites and designed
and distributed supporting promotional and publicity
materials.

144

Smithsonian Institution Press

Fiscal year 1986 was productive, with several landmarks,
for the Smithsonian Institution Press. This very publica-
tion, Smithsonian Year—edited, designed, and produced
by the Press—was published in a format unique in the
annual report’s near 150-year existence. Smithsonian Year
1985 proved so attractive that many people admitted to
actually reading it, and requests for additional copies far
exceeded previous years. The archival Supplement to the
annual report was, for the first time, published from
camera-ready copy and disseminated in microfiche form.
These major departures from past practices in producing
the Smithsonian Year reduced publishing costs.

In another development, Press managers decided that
an evaluation of publishing procedures was needed since
the University Press list has grown over the past twelve
years from some four books a year to more than forty
new titles each year. Press management formed internal
working groups. Participation from all levels of staff re-
sulted in a document, SIP Systems Management for Uni-
versity Press Books, that sets forth procedures required
to publish a university press book. This analysis is en-
abling the University Press division to function more effi-
ciently. An integral element in this systems approach is
the Press’s new Guide for Authors that explains step-by-
step how to prepare material properly for submission to
the Press.

The Series program continued advancing toward its
goal of processing most of its manuscripts electronically,
which will provide savings in federal publication budgets
around the Institution. For example, two-thirds of all
Contributions and Studies publications prepared this
year used an electronic manuscript furnished by the au-
thor. Editing and design were done on Smithsonian Insti-
tution Press personal computers, and the resulting coded
disks were sent to a commercial vendor for typesetting
and page makeup. This represented a roo percent in-
crease over last year in the proportion of electronic
manuscripts handled by the Series program and resulted
in substantial savings for bureau sponsors of Series pub-
lications.

Some of the titles published under the Series program
in fiscal year 1986 were “Giant Camels from the
Cenozoic of North America” by Jessica A. Harrison
(Smithsonian Contributions to Paleobiology, No. 57);
“Rails of the World: A Compilation of New Information,
1975-1983 (Aves: Rallidae)” by S. Dillon Ripley and
Bruce M. Beehler (Smithsonian Contributions to Zool-
ogy, No. 17); and “United States Women in Aviation
1930-1939” by Claudia M. Oakes (Smithsonian Studies
in Air and Space, No. 6).
Near the end of the fiscal year, a laser printer and
page-makeup software were added to the editorial com-
puters, enabling all Series publications in fiscal year 1987
to be processed at the Press all the way to camera-ready
copy.

A crucial element in the Press’s Five-Year Plan has been
the addition of full-time acquisitions editors. Their effect
can be seen in the development of a strong anthropology
list; a new series in ethnographic inquiry; a series on mu-
sicology; and the growth of the series in nature studies
and in the solar system.

The Press, with the assistance of William Merrill and
Ivan Karp—Department of Anthropology curators at the
National Museum of Natural History—established the
Smithsonian Series in Ethnographic Inquiry. The first
book in the series, Tsewa’s Gift: Magic and Meaning in
an Amazonian Society by Michael F. Brown (Williams
College), was published in January; and by the end of
the fiscal year a fourth volume in the series, Pintupi
Country, Pintupi Self: Sentiment, Place, and Politics
among Western Desert Aborigines by Fred Myers (NYU),
was published.

A companion series in archaeology has followed, un-
der the editorship of Secretary Adams and NMNH De-
partment of Anthropology curator Bruce Smith. The first
three volumes in the Smithsonian Series in Archaeologi-
cal Inquiry will be published in 1987. The first volume is
The Archaeology of Western Iran: Settlement and Society
from Prehistory to the Islamic Conquest, edited by Frank
Hole (Yale).

The following are some of the general publications
published in fiscal year 1986 by Smithsonian Institution
Press: The Mystery of Comets by Fred L. Whipple; Ani-
mal Extinctions: What Everyone Should Know edited by
R. J. Hoage; Treasures from the National Museum of
American Art by William Kloss; Rethinking Regional-
ism: John Steuart Curry and the Kansas Mural Contro-
versy by M. Sue Kendall, second in the Press’s New Di-
rections in American Art series; Red Fox: The Catlike
Canine by J. David Henry, and Harrier, Hawk of the
Marshes by Frances Hamerstrom, Smithsonian Nature
Books; and The Smithsonian Book of North American
Indians by Philip Kopper, this year’s primary publication
from the Smithsonian Books division.

The talent of a dedicated staff brought a shower of
awards. The Pleasures of Entomology by Howard Evans
has won three awards to date: Science Books and Film
Editor’s Choice; Young Adult Books, American Library
Association’s Booklist; and a Library Journal Outstand-
ing Sci-Tech Book of 1985. David B. Lellinger’s Field

Manual of the Ferns and Fern-Allies of the United States
and Canada was named a Choice Outstanding Academic
Book. Ann Uhry Abrams’s Valiant Hero was selected
Editor’s Choice, Adult Books, by the American Library
Association’s Booklist. The National Association of Goy-
ernment Communicators recognized Sculpture in the
Federal Triangle by George Gurney, which won first
place in Books for General Audience; Islamic Metalwork
in the Freer Gallery of Art by Esin Atil, W. T. Chase,
and Paul Jett, which took second place in Books for Pro-
fessional Audience; and the National Air and Space Mu-
seum’s Research Report 1985, which received second
place in Publications for a Technical Audience.

The Recordings division of the Press produced, and in
January 1985 released, Virtuosi, a six-record or five-
cassette set featuring great artists in performances re-
corded from 1926 to 1954. Notes on this classical offering
were written by music critics Richard Freed (who also
programmed the album) and Peter Eliot Stone. The digi-
tally mastered six-record or five-cassette set W. A.
Mozart was released in August. This recording by the
Smithsonian Chamber Orchestra, the Smithson String
Quartet, and guest artists represents the first time certain
of these works have been recorded on authentic period
instruments. The accompanying booklet was written by
Kenneth Slowik of Public Programs. American Popular
Song, produced by J. R. Taylor, was nominated for a
Grammy for Best Historical Album. The program and
album notes, prepared by J. R. Taylor, James Morris,
and Dwight Blocker Bowers, were also nominated for a
Grammy.

In addition, the Press in conjunction with the Ameri-
can Association of University Presses helped establish a
nationwide program to increase the number of minority
members in university press publishing. The program,
funded by the Metropolitan Life Foundation, entails the
hiring by an AAUP member press of a qualified candi-
date in a salaried position. The Smithsonian Institution
Press and the MIT Press both hired candidates in August
1986.

145
Smithsonian Magazine

The Smithsonian magazine is the official magazine of the
Smithsonian Institution. And to many of its primary au-
dience of 4,000,000 and pass-along audience of an addi-
tional 3,000,000, the magazine represents the only expe-
rience they have of the Institution.

The magazine has the largest circulation of any museum-
affiliated magazine in the world. The Institution’s educa-
tional message is evident in the magazine’s regular cover-
age of every subject area of the Smithsonian museums:
art, history, natural history, science, and technology.

While it deals directly with the Institution every month
through columns such as the Secretary’s “Horizon,” Ted
Park’s “Around the Mall,’ and Constance Bond’s
“Smithsonian Highlights,” the magazine is not a house
organ in the usual sense—nor was it ever intended to be.
Rather, its mandate is to represent the Smithsonian ex-
plicitly and also to deal with what the Institution might
be interested in.

Subscribers receive discounts on books and records
from Smithsonian Institution Press and on the education-
ally related gifts available in the Museum Shops and
through the catalog. Subscribers are also eligible to par-
ticipate in tours, regional events, and other activities of
the Resident and National Associate programs.

The magazine provides a constant flow of new mem-
bers to the Contributing Membership, the Resident Asso-
ciate Program, and the Cooper-Hewitt Museum Associ-
ate Program. For these programs, the magazine is the
principal benefit of membership.

The museums are places of enchantment and magic,
but their spirit is extraordinarily difficult to translate. Yet
the magazine, which combines sound writing and excel-
lent photography, consistently captures that magic and
has attracted and held an appreciative audience. In fiscal
year 1986, membership reached a new high, and the re-
newal rate improved. More than 28,350,000 copies were
mailed to subscribers nation-wide.

Smithsonian produced 1,185 editorial pages last year.
Article topics ranged from Frangois Boucher to Diego
Rivera, from polar bears to the reconstruction of the
pterosaur, from Nicolai Telsa to the 350th birthday of
Harvard. Smithsonian again examined the scientific re-
search in the Antarctic—this time in midwinter—making
the magazine’s coverage the most thorough to appear in
any general publication. The article that prompted the
most readership response was Oxford biologist David
MacDonald’s piece on the remarkable meerkats of the
Kalahari desert—a response that could be measured by
the more than 30,000 Associates who bought meerkat
posters.

146

Smithsonian World

“Smithsonian World,’ the prime-time television series
coproduced by the Smithsonian Institution and WETA,
enjoyed a successful second season with host David
McCullough during fiscal year 1986. Twelve one-hour spe-
cials have been produced since the series began in Janu-
ary 1984. An average of eight million people views each
program.

During fiscal year 1986, three programs were aired:
Where None Has Gone Before in October; On the
Shoulders of Giants in January; and American Pie in
March.

“Smithsonian World” added several major awards to
its list of honors, including an Emmy for the Anne Mor-
row Lindbergh segment in Crossing the Distance, first
televised in February 1984. In April 1986, the series re-
ceived top honors in the Ohio State Awards soth Year
Program competition; Filling in the Blanks and Heroes
and the Test of Time were cited. “Smithsonian World”
also won a gold medal for Best Magazine Series at the
International Television and Film Festival of New York in
November 198s.

In January 1986, Adrian Malone became the executive
producer of the series. His previous credits include The
Ascent of Man, Cosmos, and The Age of Uncertainty.
Visitor Information and
Associates’ Reception Center

Centralized information and assistance are hallmarks of
the diverse services provided by the Visitor Information
and Associates’ Reception Center (VIARC) to the public,
Associates, Smithsonian staff, volunteers, and interns.
Many services are offered seven days a week and are im-
plemented by large numbers of volunteers coordinated
by VIARC staff.

Significant progress was made in obtaining funding for
the proposed Smithsonian Information Center, with the
Pew Memorial Trust pledging $1,000,000 and the
Kresge Foundation offering a challenge grant of
$500,000. In preparation for construction associated
with the center, VIARC moved from the South Tower
Room, its headquarters for fifteen years, to temporary
offices in the Commons lounge.

Another major VIARC project, the proposed
Institution-wide exterior graphic information system,
moved forward with installation of prototype signs for
review by appropriate regulatory agencies and commis-
sions.

The new Air and Space Associate Program affected
several VIARC operations: a new Associates’ reception
desk was established at the National Air and Space Mu-
seum where some 2,000 memberships were sold; the
Public Inquiry Mail unit responded to approximately
6,000 requests for further information from readers of
the first issues of Air & Space/Smithsonian magazine;
and reduced-rate Air and Space Associate memberships
for staff and volunteers were added to the fulfillment
responsibilities of the Staff, Volunteer, and Intern Ser-
vices unit.

Record breakers included the Group Orientation Pro-
gram’s increase of 20 percent in attendance at early bird
slide/lectures offered before museum hours during sum-
mer months, and the 35 percent increase in phone traffic
experienced by the Telephone Information Services,
which logged more than 400,000 calls. On the Dial-a-
Phenomenon line, interest in Halley’s comet in Novem-
ber and December 1985 generated nearly 19,000 calls.
The Public Inquiry Mail Service responded to more than
50,000 pieces of mail, an increase of more than 33 per-
cent.

Activities initiated during the year were varied: the
Museum Information Desk Program began seven-day-a-
week operations at the National Museum of American
Art in February 1986, bringing the number of museum
desks staffed to fourteen; the Group Orientation Pro-
gram, after promoting its service to convention groups,
sent information specialists to make slide/lecture presen-
tations to such organizations as the American Society of

Newspaper Editors, the American Psychotherapy Associ-
ation, and the Elderhostel at American University; the
Castle docents’ knowledge of the historic Smithsonian
Institution Building was shared for the first time with
participants of tours sponsored by the Resident Associate
Program. New activities of the Information Outreach
Program included promotion of National Associate
membership through Metrorail’s new Family Tourist Pass
plan and coordination of the selection of a Smithsonian
volunteer entry for the Washington Convention and Visi-
tors Association (WCVA) annual competition to recog-
nize exceptional service to the visiting public. Louise
Steele, a fifteen-year VIARC volunteer, received the first
WCVA Hospitality Award for “Outstanding Volunteer.”

Extension of services were affected by other units. The
Public Inquiry Mail unit agreed to respond to general
queries for the National Zoological Park and to handle
public-request distribution of the Institution’s annual re-
port for the Smithsonian Institution Press. Staff, Volun-
teer, and Intern Services unit added the Arthur M.
Sackler Gallery, the Woodrow Wilson Center’s Kennan
Institute, the Directorate of International Activities, and
Smithsonian magazine in New York to its volunteer and
internship rolls. The annual Institution-wide survey of
volunteer participation conducted by this unit showed
that during fiscal year 1986 5,546 individuals contributed
450,659 hours of service to the Institution.

147
ie oe
sg aay

ADMINISTRATION

John F. Jameson, Assistant Secretary for Administration

149
Administrative and Support
Activities

The Institution operates effectively as a highly decentral-
ized organization with programs extending across the
country and with projects in many foreign countries. A
variety of central support offices work to assure the suc-
cess of scholarly and public activity and at the same time
provide central oversight and accountability for the man-
agement and use of financial, personnel, and physical
resources. These organization units include programming
and budget, personnel administration, equal opportunity,
printing and photographic services, contracts, special
events, travel services, supply services, audits and investi-
gations, congressional liaison, facilities (including design
and construction management, plant services, protection,
safety, and architectural history), information resource
management, and management analysis. Funding for
central services amounts to about 7 percent of the Insti-
tution’s total operating expenses exclusive of the costs of
maintenance, operation, and protection of facilities. The
major over-all emphasis by the administrative and sup-
port units was twofold: provide effective and timely serv-
ices to users; and assure that the Institution maintained a
high level of control and accountability as a public orga-
nization.

In a coordinated effort involving the Office of the As-
sistant Secretary, the Office of Programming and Budget
(OPB), and the Treasurer’s Office with the involvement
of bureaus and offices throughout the Institution, the
Five-Year Prospectus, FY 1987—FY 1991, covering the
Smithsonian’s program and facility development plans,
was prepared for approval by the Board of Regents at
the January 27, 1986, meeting. Work started soon there-
after on the draft prospectus for fiscal years 1988-92 for
the Regents’ review at their September 16, 1986, meeting.
During 1986, the Office of Programming and Budget
continued to encourage program managers and adminis-
trators throughout the Institution to participate in the
formulation of the fiscal year 1987 unrestricted trust fund
and the fiscal year 1988 federal budgets. In cooperation
with the Under Secretary, the planning officer, the Man-
agement Analysis Office, and the Office of Audits and
Investigations, OPB provided critical support to program
managers and administrators in the development of
guidelines to absorb the across-the-board reductions en-
acted as the result of the Balanced Budget and Emer-
gency Deficit Control Act of 1985 (Public Law 99-177)
and with plans for how to deal with possible major bud-
get reductions in the future. The office also continued to
increase its use of automated systems for budget analy-
sis, monitoring, and presentation. In July 1986, a new

150

director of the Office of Programming and Budget joined
the Institution.

In its fourth year, the Office of Information Resource
Management (OIRM) continued its transition from a
central data-processing service center to a leader of dis-
tributed information management. The distributed pat-
tern is one in which bureaus and offices own and employ
mini- and microcomputers linked to each other and to
the OIRM mainframe by data communications systems.
OIRM began to develop the new Collections Information
System (CIS) for specimens by building a prototype sys-
tem for the Division of Fishes collections. As collections
information is moved to the new system, it is standard-
ized to ensure long-term value. A CIS Steering Commit-
tee of collections managers and registrars was organized
to guide OIRM’s efforts. The Smithsonian Institution
Bibliographic Information System (SIBIS) focused on re-
search files, such as the new Inventory of American
Sculpture, which will become a national data base. A
letter of agreement was signed with the Department of
Agriculture for them to run the Smithsonian’s person-
nel/payroll system, beginning in fiscal year 1987; the
new system will provide the Smithsonian with on-line
update and enquiry to these vital records. Construction
began on the Mall Master Raceway, which will house
cables for data communications. The Information Re-
source Center expanded its curriculum of computer and
software courses. Two important planning activities were
launched: an Institution-wide, long-range information
resource management planning exercise resulted in a set
of long- and short-range automation goals, along with a
recommendation for an annual planning cycle; and
OIRM and Office of Plant Services’ Division of Commu-
nication and Transportation collaborated on the first
Smithsonian Electronic Communications Plan, which set
broad direction for voice and data communications for
the next several years.

The Office of Personnel Administration planned for its
first major Reduction In Force (RIF) in connection with
the closing of the Smithsonian Environmental Research
Center’s Rockville facility. Related to this activity was
the revision and implementation of new RIF regulations.
Union contracts with American Federation of Govern-
ment Employees and National Maritime Union were re-
newed. Employees with the Parking Office were trans-
ferred to the federal rolls or were placed elsewhere on
the trust fund rolls as a result of cessation of public
parking. Personnel authority up through grade 15 was
delegated to the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory.
The Office of Equal Opportunity (OEO) continued to
emphasize special recruitment efforts for minorities,
women, and disabled persons in all categories of employ-
ment. Goals for minorities and women were established
Institution-wide at each organizational level for profes-
sional, administrative, and technical positions. The rep-
resentation of minorities and women in professional and
administrative positions and in grades above grade 12
improved to 18 percent of the total work force. Goals
for disabled persons were established, and representation
of disabled persons within the Institution continues to
increase. The outreach program continued to inform mi-
norities, women, and disabled persons and their advo-
cate organizations of Smithsonian programs, exhibitions,
activities, and career opportunities. Outreach efforts in-
cluded equal opportunity exhibition displays and hand-
outs at ten national conferences held by various organi-
zations. In addition, equal employment messages were
placed in five minority and women’s publications that
reached an audience of approximately three million peo-
ple, one million more than last year. Special outreach
efforts continue in the development of relationships with
the Hispanic-American and Asian-American communi-
ties, including participation in ethnic group conferences,
programs and cultural observances, and the establish-
ment of a networking system for continuous liaison. Pro-
grams to highlight ethnic observances and to expand cul-
tural understanding received increased attention and
support throughout the Institution. OEO published a
revised office memorandum on program accessibility
which includes guidelines for making exhibitions, pro-
grams, and activities more accessible to disabled persons.

The Office of Printing and Photographic Services
(OPPS) serves as the Institution’s focal point for the tak-
ing, processing, and archival preservation of photo-
graphs for both museum collections and events of his-
toric interest to the staff. The office is also the central
provider of in-house printing. A Halon fire protection
system was added to the OPPS cold storage room this
year, and a flood barrier was installed at the entrance to
protect the collection in the event of flooding. The ni-
trate film conversion program, begun in fiscal year 1981,
is near the end of the first phase—the conversion of haz-
ardous nitrate negatives to safety film. All converted neg-
atives will be toned to further insure archival life. Equip-
ment for a research program into applied photographic
preservation was installed. Two initial projects include
the testing of new toning solutions to eliminate the use
of a suspected carcinogen and the testing of new color
duplicating films against older color originals to deter-

mine the best matches of duplicating stock versus origi-
nals. The office completed filming all of its 35mm slides
for the modification of its original video disc and added
a second side, which will make a total of more than
70,000 images available. OPPS staff covered the events
in New York related to the centennial of the Statue of
Liberty as part of the office’s historic documentation pro-
gram. In addition to its third annual exhibition, The

fear in Pictures As Seen from the National Museum of
American History, OPPS is organizing an exhibition for
Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service enti-
tled The Vietnam Veterans Memorial: A National Expe-
rience. There also will be a book on the memorial.

The Office of Supply Services, in collaboration with
the Office of Accounting and Financial Services, imple-
mented a new small purchasing system. The new pro-
gram formally delegates to individuals in various units
the authority to satisfy a greater number and variety of
their everyday needs for lower cost products and ser-
vices. Concurrently, the development of new procedures
and forms will streamline the entire payment process.
The Office of Congressional Liaison managed through
the congressional process a number of important legisla-
tive matters. It also is responsible for assessing the im-
pact of congressional initiatives on Smithsonian
programs. The Management Analysis Office monitored
the progress of actions needed to strengthen internal con-
trols and continued its program of bringing carefully se-
lected students in graduate schools of business adminis-
tration to work on important management projects
during summers at the Institution. This past year, five
postgraduate students worked in the Financial Manage-
ment and Planning, Museum Shop, Fellowship and
Grants, and Mail Order Catalogue offices, and at the
National Portrait Gallery. The Management Analysis Of-
fice also initiated a biweekly employee bulletin covering
important and timely administrative matters. As the
principal coordinating and organizing unit for Smithson-
ian events emphasizing Institutional programs and activi-
ties, the Office of Special Events managed several hun-
dred events this year. The Office of Special Events
received nearly 1,000 requests from outside organizations
seeking to use Smithsonian space and determined which
organizations met the policy requiring that events be
closely related to the Institution’s museum and education
programs.

The Travel Services Office continued to assist and ad-
vise Smithsonian employees and consultants about the
most efficient and economical travel possible. Travel ar-
rangements for the Festival of American Folklife, featur-

151
ing participants from Japan and Tennessee, were success-
fully completed. Assistance was provided for research
projects throughout the world including those near
Puerto Maldonado, Peru, and at Grand Turk island in
the Bahamas, as well as for the Smithsonian Foreign
Currency Program grantees traveling to Pakistan and
India. The Contracts Office handled negotiations for
specialized contracts related to trust-funded operations
and helped obtain federal grants and contracts for spe-
cial programs and projects. The Office of Audits and
Investigations, which reports to the Under Secretary, is
responsible for performing all internal and external au-
diting and the investigation of any fraud, waste, abuse,
or white-collar criminal activity by employees or contrac-
tors. The internal audit function includes both federal
and trust-funded activities on a recurring basis. The ex-
ternal audit function involves the audit of documentation
in support of claims, cost proposals, and cost and pric-
ing data arising from contracts, grants, and other finan-
cial agreements.

Highlights for the Office of Facilities Services included
98 percent completion of the quadrangle complex. Ma-
jor activities during the year directed by the Office of
Design and Construction included the completion of the
multiyear facade restoration at the Renwick Gallery;
construction of an annex building for the Anacostia
Neighborhood Museum; completion of a master plan for
the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, as well as
completion of the design for its Tupper facility; and com-
pletion of a master plan to replace heating, ventilation,
and air conditioning systems for the National Museum
of American History.

Significant progress in the Office of Plant Services this
year included implementation of automated financial,
personnel, and program management systems to increase
staff efficiency and accuracy of information. A physical
plant building inspection program was implemented to
address essential short- and long-term maintenance and
repair needs in Smithsonian facilities. Energy conserva-
tion efforts continued with emphasis on renewing pro-
gram visibility throughout the Institution. Progress con-
tinued to improve and refine the work hour quota
system in order to reduce backlogs in trade and crafts
projects. Work on real property records continued for all
Smithsonian-owned and -leased buildings and structures;
only ten buildings at the Whipple Observatory in Ari-
zona remain to be researched and documented.

The Office of Protection Services adjusted security op-
erations in all museums to account for international ten-

152

sions. Individual efforts of the staff resulted in the first
promotion of women in the guard force to the rank of
lieutenant and the first certification as occupational
health nurses of several of the Health Services staff. The
Employee Assistance Program continued to expand its
counseling services, and the first presentation of seminars
on the program for executives and first-line supervisors
is expected to result in more effective use of the counsel-
ing service by managers. The efforts to upgrade security
systems and to provide a proprietary alarm system are
almost complete.

The Protection Services staff continued to play a lead-
ing role in national and international efforts to improve
the practice of museum protection. Through its class-
room training programs, an annual security conference,
and the annual museum protection workshop, the office
provided training support to approximately half of the
country’s museums. Protection staff remains active in the
programs of the American Association of Museums, the
American Society for Industrial Security, and the Interna-
tional Council of Museums and its International Com-
mittee on Museum Security, having participated this year
in two programs conducted for museums in Mexico by
the U.S. Information Agency. Other outreach activities
included participation in a program to improve protec-
tion afforded to U.S. embassies and in programs related
to the health and safety of scientific divers.

The Institution’s safety program was emphasized by
establishing the Safety Division of the Office of Protec-
tion Services as a separate unit reporting to the director
of Facilities Services, the Smithsonian’s designated health
and safety official. This change reflects the growth of the
safety program and the importance of its work within
the Institution as well as to the public’s perception of the
Smithsonian. The most notable activities undertaken by
the Office of Safety Programs were the development of a
hazardous materials management and disposal program
and the establishment of a regulatory review and analysis
process for ensuring compliance with safety and health
laws. The office continued its work on asbestos abate-
ment and control; installation of fire protection, detec-
tion, and suppression systems; and improvements to the
physical plant.

An Office of Architectural History and Historic Preser-
vation was created in June 1986 to strengthen the
Smithsonian’s interests and obligations in these areas.
Chief among its accomplishments was the development
of a comprehensive collections management policy for
the Smithsonian Furnishings Collection.
Smithsonian Institution
Women’s Council

The Smithsonian Institution Women’s Council was estab-
lished by Secretarial memorandum in 1972 to identify
and study the concerns of employees, to serve as an ac-
tive advisory group to management on women’s issues,
and to strive for the improvement of working conditions
with particular concern for encouraging the hiring, pro-
motion, and equal treatment of women at the Smith-
sonian. The council’s twenty members are elected by
Smithsonian staff. Open meetings are held the second
Wednesday of each month in the Regents Room of the
Castle. Carolyn Jones is council chairperson.

The work of the council is done mainly by four stand-
ing committees: Benefits and Child Care, Newsletter,
Outreach, and Programs. Ad hoc committees are created
when necessary to further council goals. Recent projects
included a national conference in March on “Women’s
Changing Roles in Museums,” developed with the Office
of Museum Programs; continued efforts toward the es-
tablishment of day-care centers in two museums on the
Mall; publication of a brochure for new employees on
the council’s activities; sponsorship of a seminar and
workshop on street harassment; and the founding of a

Washington, D.C., area network for women in museums.

Smithsonian Internship
Council

The Smithsonian Internship Council was established in
1981 as a result of provisions set forth in Office Memo-
randum (OM) 820 for intern programs at the Smith-
sonian. The council, made up of at least one representa-
tive from each bureau or office, provides a forum for
staff working with interns. The council works to set
common standards for interns and to improve coordina-
tion of internships throughout the Institution.

The Internship Council began fiscal year 1986 by con-
tinuing work on several projects inspired by the revision
of OM 820, “Smithsonian Institution Internships,” issued
in March 1984. The memorandum established criteria for
the selection of interns, guidelines for management to
follow in the placement of interns, and clarification of
several Smithsonian internship programs.

The following publications have been produced by the
Internship Council and are updated periodically. Intern-
ships and Fellowships describes the majority of intern-
ship and fellowship opportunities at the Smithsonian.
The Handbook for Smithsonian Interns provides perti-
nent information about procedures to be followed by
interns while at the Institution. It also includes informa-
tion about Smithsonian facilities, services, and activities
available to interns. Housing Information for Interns and
Fellows lists short-term housing available in the Washing-
ton metropolitan area.

The Internship Council’s staff assistant registers all
interns, provides identification credentials and orienta-
tion for interns, and produces reports about interns and
internship programs throughout the Institution. The staff
assistant also provides services for internships at the
Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars. In
fiscal year 1986, approximately 500 interns were regis-
tered at the Smithsonian by the staff assistant.

The Internship Council’s Committee for Staff Orienta-
tion has initiated seminars to provide staff and supervi-
sors with information about management of internships.
During fiscal year 1986, the Internship Council received
approval and funding to provide health insurance to in-
terns who were not otherwise insured.

The Internship Council is continuing efforts to estab-
lish a central stipend fund. The council believes that
many talented potential interns are lost to the Institution
each year because they cannot afford to intern at the
Smithsonian without minimal financial support.

153
DIRECTORATE: OF
INTERNATIONA
ACTIVITIES

John E. Reinhardt, Director

T55
Directorate of International
Activities

The Directorate of International Activities was estab-
lished in October 1984 to monitor, coordinate, and en-
hance the Smithsonian-wide array of work in the inter-
national field; to be responsible for liaison with federal
agencies and national and international organizations
whose international activities relate to those of the Insti-
tution; to ensure balanced international program empha-
ses, reflecting all world regions and all fields of existing
Smithsonian interests from basic research in the natural
sciences to popular culture and the performing arts; to
help develop the effectiveness of all the Institution’s inter-
national activities; and to plan, design, and conduct the
programs of the International Center located in the
quadrangle complex. The work of the Directorate is
conducted through several divisions: a program staff pri-
marily responsible for planning the programs of the In-
ternational Center and filling the coordinating roles of
the Directorate; the Office of Service and Protocol; and
the Office of Publications Exchange. The Directorate
also has responsibility for planning the 1992 Quincente-
nary of Columbus’s landing in the Americas, and for
management of the Smithsonian Foreign Currency Pro-
gram.

International Center Programs

Through the International Center, the Institution pursues
certain objectives not readily achieved through existing
programs. For example, the Center will offer themati-
cally integrated programs of exhibition, scholarly ex-
change, and public education, bringing to bear Smithson-
ian research and expertise on the explication of diverse
cultures and regions of the world. Further, the center
will fill a significant Institution gap in programs focused
on Latin America and hemispheric interrelationships, for
while substantial Smithsonian research actually goes on
in middle and South America, it is scattered within the
Institution and for the most part has low visibility. The
center also will develop programs to encourage regular
exchanges with scholars and museum professionals in
other nations through the development of institutional
relationships. In keeping with the special purposes of the
quadrangle itself, all activities initially will concentrate
on increasing contacts with and offering programs about
Latin America, Africa, and Asia.

Even before the opening of the International Center,
the Directorate has undertaken programs on broad
themes of international importance. One theme is the
urgent need to conserve the diversity of life forms in the

156

world now under siege. Special emphasis will be given to
the tropics where diversity is greatest, while issues for
the New World tropics coincide closely with the Center’s
Latin American focus.

The Smithsonian with the National Academy of Sci-
ences organized in September a highly successful Na-
tional Forum on BioDiversity. The four-day event pro-
vided the public with the views of distinguished scientists
and scholars about the rapid destruction of Earth’s natu-
ral habitats and the subsequent loss of plants and ani-
mals. Concurrent events included a poster-panel exhibi-
tion, film showings, and a national teleconference via
satellite and cable.

The Directorate also began a three-year pilot program
in cooperation with the National Museum of Natural
History and the international Man and the Biosphere
Program. Initially the goal is to design standardized
methodology for collecting and managing biotic inven-
tory and other biological data in all Biosphere Reserves,
potential reserves, and other endangered habitats. (A
Biosphere Reserve is an area selected for protection and
study because it is a representative example of one of the
world’s major ecosystems. )

During fiscal year 1986 planning commenced for the
International Center’s inaugural exhibition and associ-
ated programs. The exhibition Generations is an ambi-
tious and unprecedented multidisciplinary, multicultural
investigation of the art and rituals associated with birth
from ancient times to the present. Of particular impor-
tance will be the interpretation of non-Western materials
in context, through concentration on the ways certain
cultures view this subject, how they incorporate it into
their world view, how they deal with its reality and sym-
bolism, and how they express these ideas and concepts
in material form.

Also in fiscal year 1986 the Directorate initiated pro-
grams aimed at increasing and strengthening regular ex-
changes between scholars in developing countries and
Smithsonian researchers. This International Exchange
Program supports workshops, training courses, and simi-
lar short-term group projects. In fiscal year 1986 ten
projects conducted by five bureaus were chosen: for ex-
ample, a collaboration between the Smithsonian Astro-
physical Observatory and the Centro de Investigaciones
de Astronomia in Venezuela, and museum training in the
National Museum of Natural History for curators of
vertebrate zoology in key Latin American museums.

A generous gift from the estate of Suzanne Liebers
Erickson established a memorial fund to support
exchange visits between Smithsonian staff and Danish
scholars, museum professionals, and students. Exchanges
under the program will begin in fiscal year 1987.

Since 1965 the Institution has conducted the Smithson-
ian Foreign Currency Program (SFCP) to enhance the
quality of its research and extend the impact of its schol-
arly efforts. In fiscal year 1986, management of the SFCP
was transferred to the Directorate of International Actiy-
ities from the Office of Fellowships and Grants. The For-
eign Currency Program awards grants to support the re-
search of American institutions, including the
Smithsonian, in those countries in which the United
States holds blocked currencies derived largely from past
sales of surplus agricultural commodities under Public
Law 480. In 1986 blocked currencies were held by the
United States in Burma, Guinea, Pakistan, and Poland,
and Indian rupees were available from the United Stat-
es—India Fund for Cultural, Educational, and Scientific
Cooperation, newly established to continue programs in
India such as those earlier supported under the SFCP.

Covering many disciplines, this year’s projects included
studies of Indian music; archaeological exploration of
the Roman period in Serbia and of Harappa in Pakistan;
systematic studies of Indian bamboos and of the avian
genus Phylloscopus; and assessment of desertifications as
it affects grazing systems.

Also in this year the Smithsonian conveyed $1,020,000
equivalent in Pakistan rupees, the final installment of the
United States contribution, to the government of Paki-
stan for its campaign to salvage and preserve
Moenjodaro, the 4,500-year-old Indus civilization city in
Pakistan. The site is being eroded by highly saline
groundwater and floods of the Indus River. A
groundwater-control scheme to lower the water table is
in place and other operations are under way.

In addition to programs of scholarly support, the Di-
rectorate sponsors conferences and meetings. During
1986 the Directorate conducted planning meetings on a
wide range of subjects:

1) The history of science and technology in Latin
America. Participants from six Latin American countries,
Canada, and the United States focused on ways for the
Smithsonian to further development of the history of sci-
ence and technology in Latin America. A pilot program
is being planned for 1988 to bring a small number of
Latin American specialists to the Smithsonian for
research on aspects of the history of United States—Latin
American relations in science and technology.

2) Scientific research in Madagascar. Scientists around
the world, including many at the Smithsonian, are fasci-
nated with the unique life forms and geography of

Madagascar, and many consider it the world’s highest
conservation priority. Responding to encouragement by
representatives of the government of Madagascar of
Smithsonian research activities, a workshop on priorities
and methods for doing research in Madagascar was con-
ducted for participants from outside and within the Insti-
tution.

3) African material culture studies. The community of
Africa scholars see the need for an international confer-
ence on African material culture research to bring to-
gether the technological, cultural, social, and economic
aspects of the production, use, and value of objects in
African societies. The Directorate, with the Joint Com-
mittee on Africa of the Social Science Research Council
and the American Council of Learned Societies, con-
ducted an extensive survey of scholars and museum pro-
fessionals worldwide on issues to be discussed. Topics
included technology and the production of form, ethno-
historical studies of material culture, and symbolic stud-
ies of material culture. This meeting resulted in a plan
for an international conference to integrate the perspec-
tive of a variety of disciplines and focus on how the
study of African material objects can elucidate social re-
lations, cultural change, and symbolic behavior. Founda-
tion funding has been obtained for this conference.

4) Issues facing scholars seeking research access in for-
eign nations. In November 1985 the Directorate cospon-
sored with the Social Science Research Council (SSRC) a
major conference to explore issues concerning access to
research sites by foreign scholars, with specific reference
to U.S. scholars’ experiences working abroad. Partici-
pants included experienced field scholars in disciplines
ranging from the biological and geological sciences to
archaeology, history, and political sciences. The conferees
concluded that access to research must be closely tied to
collaboration and mutuality of benefit to the visiting re-
searchers and their host-country counterparts. These and
other matters developed in the conference are discussed
in the SSRC’s quarterly Items (March 1986) and the
Smithsonian’s quarterly Research Reports (Spring 1986).

Office of Service and Protocol

Within the Directorate of International Activities, the
Office of Service and Protocol (OSP) prepares and imple-
ments agreements related to international cooperative
programs; assists foreign dignitaries and scholars who
participate in Smithsonian programs; facilitates commu-
nications and logistical arrangements for research and

157
participation in meetings abroad; and obtains passports
and visas for Smithsonian travelers.

New links were established with the National
Research Council of Iraq, with the negotiation of a co-
operation agreement that will provide for a broad range
of activities, including field research and museum train-
ing. A cooperation agreement was also concluded May 5,
1986, with the Jordanian Department of Antiquities pro-
viding for research, conservation, and preservation by
the Smithsonian’s Conservation Analytical Laboratory of
Neolithic statuary found in Jordan. OSP continued to
coordinate the activities arising out of the cooperative
agreement signed two years ago with the Moroccan Min-
istry of Culture, and continued its oversight of exchanges
with the People’s Republic of China, including the first
exchange under the Smithsonian’s January 1985 Memo-
randum of Understanding with the China Association for
Science and Technology (CAST). OSP, working jointly
with the National Science Foundation, played a key role
in arrangements for United States participation in the
April 1986 Association of South East Asian Nations Sci-
ence and Technology Week held in Kuala Lumpur, Ma-
laysia.

In fiscal year 1986, OSP arranged Smithsonian visits
for approximately 100 foreign officials and scholars. In
October 1985, Indonesian Director General of Culture
Haryati Soebadeo and Director of Museum Affairs Bam-
bang Soemadeo met Secretary Adams and staff members
to discuss Smithsonian cooperation in research and train-
ing. In February 1986, Bahraini Minister of Education
and Culture Tariq Adbul Rahman Al Moayyed visited
the Smithsonian for talks with Secretary Adams and
other members of the staff on Smithsonian-Bahrain mu-
seum cooperation. In June, Uruguayan First Lady Marta
Canessa de Sanguinetti met with Smithsonian officials
and Washington, D.C., architect Avery Faulkner for dis-
cussions on the extended use of historic buildings for
museum purposes. In August, a high-level delegation
from the U.S.S.R. ministries of Culture and Foreign Af-
fairs met with the Under Secretary and other Smithson-
ian representatives for discussions on several major exhi-
bitions, including an exchange of art exhibitions and one
on the peoples of the Arctic. In September, Cook Islands
Prime Minister Sir Thomas Davis came to the Smithson-
ian to meet with Secretary Adams and Smithsonian staff.

The core of OSP’s activity continued to be services to
Smithsonian bureaus and during 1986 OSP obtained ror
passports and 784 foreign visas for Smithsonian staff and
grantees; provided documentation and guidance services
for eighty-six foreign students and exchange visitors; ar-

158

ranged for the United States entry of two large perform-
ing arts groups; and provided the Smithsonian staff with
a variety of other immigration-related services. Through-
out the year, OSP provided a broad range of liaison and
support services for Smithsonian staff undertaking re-
search and exchanges abroad including the establishment
of a foreign currency research fund to support ethnologi-
cal studies in Nigeria. OSP also provided assistance for
research access for the National Zoological Park in Ma-
laysia and for an exchange of Buddha figures with Ko-
rea. Work continues on the second edition of the Direc-
torate publication Profile of the International Activities
of the Smithsonian Institution, and a new publication,
Guide to International Research and Exchanges.

Office of Publications Exchange

The Office of Publications Exchange (OPE) also reports
to the Directorate. Its function is to foster international
scholarly interchange by enabling U.S. universities and
learned societies to exchange their publications with cor-
responding institutions and governments of other coun-
tries. Founded by the Smithsonian’s first Secretary, Jos-
eph Henry, OPE functions today as one of the oldest
entities with ongoing activities at the Smithsonian. Dur-
ing 1986 OPE handled 86,740 packages from approxi-
mately r40 domestic institutions for transmission abroad
and 37,680 packages from approximately 220 foreign
institutions for distribution in this country.

Columbus Quincentenary Planning

The Smithsonian Institution’s Quincentenary observance
will be a mix of historical and cultural issues and ideas.
Plans are to commemorate the encounter of civilizations,
draw attention to subsequent exchanges of ideas and ma-
terial cultures, and illuminate the creation of many new
worlds. Through the organization of exhibitions and
public and scholarly programs that explicate and cele-
brate five centuries of common experience in this hemi-
sphere, the Smithsonian will help to shape the North
American involvement in what assuredly will be an in-
terhemispheric as well as transatlantic enterprise.

In fiscal year 1986, under the coordination of the Di-
rectorate, the Smithsonian began defining the objectives
of its observance, and planning specific activities. The
Directorate’s efforts reflect a two-pronged approach to
the Quincentenary: to have each Smithsonian museum
a

As part of the National Forum on BioDiversity, Noel Vietmeyer,
of the National Research Council, discussed underexploited
tropical animals as a future protein source. The forum, which
took place in September 1986, was cosponsored by the Smith-
sonian Institution and the National Academy of Sciences.

and research bureau develop and implement its own pro-
grams within broad outlines established by the Institu-
tion and coordinated by the DIA; and to develop Direc-
torate programs which will take place in the Smith-
sonian’s International Center beginning in fiscal year
1987 and continuing through fiscal year 1993. Because
the Directorate is charged with advancing better under-
standing of peoples and cultures, Quincentenary pro-
grams will explore the multilayered values, beliefs, and
dynamics that define the cultures of the past and present
peoples of Latin America.

Two planning conferences in the fall of 1985 gave
Smithsonian staff an opportunity to exchange ideas with
United States and foreign scholars in the arts, humani-

ties, and natural and social sciences about the critical
themes and issues which the Institution might address in
its Quincentenary programs. Following these meetings,
there was established a Quincentenary Planning Commit-
tee to provide further oversight and review of Smith-
sonian programs. It includes historian David Warren (In-
stitute of American Indian Arts), ethnomusicologist
Carol Robertson (University of Maryland), and ethno-
historian Miguel Leon Portilla (Universidad Nacional
Autonoma de Mexico), as well as Smithsonian staff
members.

Within guidelines established by the Planning Commit-
tee, each Smithsonian bureau will develop and imple-
ment its own programs. The Museum of American His-
tory plans an extensive exhibition on early hispanic
settlement in North America; the National Air and Space
Museum has undertaken the creation of a world atlas
composed of satellite photographs; the National Portrait
Gallery is assembling an exhibition on portraiture of
Spain. The Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden,
the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service,
and the National Museum of Natural History also are
developing Quincentenary exhibitions. Other projects
include plans by the Office of Folklife Programs to focus
on Caribbean and Latin American cultures in their
1989-92 Festivals of American Folklife.

The International Center will explore in both scholarly
and popular arenas specific aspects of the cultures of
past and present peoples of Latin America. Beginning in
1987 and continuing through 1993, the International Cen-
ter will organize scholarly seminars and conferences,
public symposia, lectures, exhibitions, and performances
to explore this theme. The Center’s scholarly program-
ming will commence in spring 1987 with a series of Quin-
centenary conferences designed both to develop a more
comprehensive understanding of the cultures of Latin
America and to form the basis for public programs. The
selection of “World Views in Contact: Performance” as
the topic of the first conference is based on the universal-
ity of performance and its centrality in ritual life.

The Smithsonian Institution is developing a joint ven-
ture with a British public broadcasting company and a
noted independent producer to film a ten-part television
series entitled The Buried Mirror: Images of Latin Amer-
ica. The production, to appear in 1989-90, will promote
a broad understanding of the history of the confluence of
indigenous and Hispanic traditions of the Americas. At
the same time, it will introduce a multinational audience
to the broad themes and topics of the international Co-
lumbus Quincentennial.

159
THE

DE Sie

.

MEMBERSHIP AND
DEVELOPMENT

James McK. Symington, Director
Office of Membership and
Development

The Institution’s organization for fund-raising was stud-
ied last year by a management consulting firm, and its
recommendations resulted in a modified decentralization
in structure and function.

The new development format permits museum direc-
tors, if they wish, to create their own development
staffs, collectively expanding and extending the
Institution’s reach into the philanthropic marketplace. To
assure a sense of Institutional priorities and to coordi-
nate the new museum fund-raising efforts, Secretary
Adams created the Development Committee. In addition
to himself, members are the Under Secretary; the assis-
tant secretaries for Research, for Museums, and for Pub-
lic Service; the chairmen of the Council of Bureau Direc-
tors and of the Information and Education Council; and
the director of Development, who is responsible for or-
ganizing and preparing committee meetings.

The Development Office has worked closely with the
museum directors who have opted for their own devel-
opment staffing. The director is responsible for inter-
viewing all candidates for museum development officer
and for providing counsel to the museum staffs. More-
over, the office continues to support museum develop-
ment personnel with the research assistance which is so
important in their work; to this end, the Development
Office Research Unit is being enlarged. Finally, the office
maintains complete files on all Institution fund-raising
activities and is responsible for keeping up-to-date
records of all donors and for the prompt acknowledge-
ment of all gifts to the Institution.

Apart from museum project fund-raising described
above, the Development Office is solely responsible for
generating private financial support for pan-Institution
projects, as well as for raising funds for those museums
or offices which are not participating in the new arrange-
ment.

The campaign for expansion of the facilities of the
Cooper-Hewitt Museum continued. Much effort was ex-
pended upon the organization and assignments of the
volunteer Campaign Committee and of a group of pro-
fessional committees drawn from the design field; Gor-
don Dixon of the Brakeley, John Price Jones Company
was selected as campaign director.

Based upon a very favorable feasibility study con-
ducted by the Brakeley firm, a capital campaign was ap-
proved for the National Museum of African Art. During
1986, staff from the Office of Membership and Develop-
ment were detailed to the campaign, and, working
closely with Sylvia Williams, they organized the cam-
paign office, set up the campaign schedule, wrote a bro-

162

chure, and began recruiting the volunteer committee.
The campaign is focused on increased acquisition funds
for the museum.

A grant of $1 million was received from the Pew Me-
morial Trust toward the creation of a new Smithsonian
Information Center in the Castle. The Kresge Founda-
tion subsequently made a challenge grant for $500,000,
to be matched by gifts from Contributing Members and
other sources, in order that visitors can better plan their
time at the Institution.

The computer industry pledged about half of the $4.2
million support necessary for a permanent exhibition,
The Information Revolution. Similarly, Digital Equip-
ment Corporation made a generous grant of $770,000 of
in-kind and cash support toward the Computers and
Flight exhibition planned at the National Air and Space
Museum.

Six Japanese corporations cosponsored the Japan pro-
gram of the 1986 Festival of American Folklife. Also in
the cultural arena, Pepsico agreed to sponsor one-half of
a U.S.-U.S.S.R. exhibition exchange being coordinated
by the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Ser-
vice, and the Washington Post Company is sponsoring a
Gene Davis retrospective at the National Museum of
American Art. The W. K. Kellogg Foundation has re-
newed a major grant for the Fellowship and Intern Pro-
gram being carried out by the Office of Museum Pro-
grams for museum professionals across the country.

The Jesse Smith Noyes Foundation underwrote a new
fellowship program at the Smithsonian Tropical Research
Institute, and several years of work by the office culmi-
nated successfully in foundation support for an impor-
tant manual on handling wild mammals in captivity at
the National Zoological Park. The office began an effort
to secure $1.5 million to endow research on ticks at the
National Museum of Natural History.

As the new decentralized development organization
takes shape, with more bureaus and offices establishing
their own staffs, the research and record-keeping func-
tions of the Development Office will be expanded ac-
cordingly. The Secretary’s Development Committee will
meet regularly to decide on project priorities and to co-
ordinate all Institution fund-raising efforts.
James Smithson Society

The James Smithson Society was founded in 1977 as the
highest level of the Contributing Membership of the
Smithsonian Associates. Since then, the Smithson Society
has granted more than $1,800,000 in support of
Smithsonian projects and acquisitions. This year,
through the contributions of Annual Members, the Soci-
ety made awards totaling $288,900 to the following: par-
tial funding for two exhibitions at the National Museum
of American Art, The Art of John La Farge and
Unknown Territory: Photographs by Ray Metzker; sup-
port to the National Museum of American History for
the expansion of a data base of Afro-American-related
items in Smithsonian collections; a three-to-one challenge
grant towards the Cooper-Hewitt Museum’s capital cam-
paign for renovation and construction; the Office of
Horticulture for the duplication of the Garden Club of
America’s “Notable American Parks and Gardens” slide
collection onto optical discs; acquisition monies to the
National Portrait Gallery to acquire a portrait by Stan-
ton MacDonald-Wright of the artist’s brother, Willard
Huntington Wright; support to the Office of Symposia
and Seminars to publish The Canvas of Culture, a sym-
posium volume based on contemporary issues in India;
to the Visitor Information and Associates’ Reception
Center, funds towards the Kresge Foundation challenge
grant to build a new Smithsonian Information Center;
and in cooperation with the Office of Telecommunica-
tions, support for the production of a Smithsonian Insti-
tution orientation video; to the National Air and Space
Museum, monies to conserve rare aviation posters and
historic aviation newsreel footage, and support to carry
out research on the evolution of the inland Niger Delta;
partial funding to the Smithsonian Astrophysical Obser-
vatory to mount an exhibition of computer-generated
images; to the National Museum of Natural History,
support towards the exhibition Through the Paleontolog-
ical Looking Glass (a working vertebrate paleontology
laboratory) and restoration funds for the newly acquired
Chinese Hell Scrolls, an important set of Chinese folk
paintings; and finally, support to the Smithsonian Tropi-
cal Research Institute to conduct further research on
iguana management.

The annual weekend for members of the Smithson So-
ciety, held every year in conjunction with the autumn
meeting of the National Board of the Smithsonian Asso-
ciates, took place September 26 and 27. At a formal din-
ner held at the National Museum of Natural History,
National Board Chairman Seymour H. Knox III
announced the 1986 Smithson Society grants. On the
morning of September 27, spouses of the National Board

“Tape

The exhibition Art in New Mexico at the National Museum of
American Art was previewed in March 1986 by upper-level
donors of the Smithsonian’s Contributing Membership Program.

and Smithson Society members participated in a behind-
the-scenes tour of the U.S Supreme Court. Following the
tour, Smithson Society and National Board members at-
tended a luncheon in their honor at the John F. Kennedy
Center for the Performing Arts.
National Board of the
Smithsonian Associates

Chairman Seymour H. Knox III organized the April
meetings of the board in Buffalo. At the first meeting,
members and their spouses heard from Ann Leven, trea-
surer of the Institution, and from Peggy Loar, director of
the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service.
The second meeting afforded Secretary Adams an oppor-
tunity to express his views on important issues facing the
Institution.

New members elected to the board at the April meet-
ing were Philip F. Anschutz (Denver, Colorado), George
B. Bingham, Jr. (Louisville, Kentucky), Jeffrey Cole
(Lyndhurst, Ohio), Gerald D. Hines (Houston, Texas),
Sidney R. Peterson (Toluca Lake, California), and Mrs.
James M. Walton (Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania).

The autumn meetings were held in Washington, D.C..,
on September 26 and 27. Sylvia Williams, director of the
National Museum of African Art, updated members on
plans for major acquisitions and for the new space in the
quadrangle; this was followed by an overview of the
Institution’s museums presented by Tom Freudenheim,
Assistant Secretary for Museums. On September 27, Sec-
retary Adams gave the board his semiannual report and
answered questions, providing the members with an op-
portunity to discuss areas of interest. Mr. Charles D.
Dickey, Jr., was elected by the board to serve as chair-
man, beginning January 1, 1987. The weekend also in-
cluded the joint National Board—James Smithson Society
dinner on September 26 at the National Museum of Nat-
ural History. Members of the James Smithson Society
and spouses of the National Board members were treated
to a behind-the-scenes tour of the U.S. Supreme Court
on the morning of the twenty-seventh prior to the clos-
ing luncheon at the John F. Kennedy Center for the Per-
forming Arts.

Smithsonian National
Associate Program

Since its inception in 1970, the Smithsonian National
Associate Program, in cooperation with other Smith-
sonian bureaus, has provided innovative educational op-
portunities for Smithsonian Associates throughout the
nation. Through Smithsonian magazine, members join
activities which increase their awareness of the Institu-
tion and encourage support for its work. The three units
which compose the National Associate Program, now
serving more than 2,000,000 members, offer benefits
which are directed toward increasing members’ personal
involvement with the life of the Smithsonian.

Contributing Membership Program

The Contributing Membership of the National Associate
Program provides unrestricted funds for Smithsonian re-
search, education, and outreach programs through six
levels of annual membership: Supporting ($50), available
only to members who live outside the greater Washing-
ton, D.C., metropolitan area; Donor ($100); Sponsoring
($250); Sustaining ($500); Patron ($1,000); and the
James Smithson Society ($1,500).

The program was established in 1976, and membership
has grown steadily over the past decade. At the end of
fiscal year 1986, there were 41,000 members, a 27 per-
cent increase over fiscal year 1985. Membership is na-
tional; 88 percent of the constituency resides beyond the
Washington, D.C., metropolitan area. Income from
membership dues, special fund-raising contributions, and
corporate matching funds also continued to grow, reach-
ing $3,800,000 in fiscal year 1986, 23 percent more than
in the previous year.

The Institution expresses appreciation by presenting to
Contributing Members a variety of benefits, including
invitations to special exhibition previews and receptions.
Nine such special events were held in fiscal year 1986,
including viewings of the exhibitions Magnificent Voyag-
ers: The U.S. Exploring Expedition 1838-1842; Holly-
wood: Legend and Reality; and After the Revolution:
Everyday Life in America, 1780-1800; special screenings
of the new IMAX film On the Wing at the National Air
and Space Museum; and an exclusive evening of Japa-
nese performances and food at the Japan program of the
1986 Festival of American Folklife. Members were in-
vited to the Navy Memorial Museum of the Wash-
ington Navy Yard and to the 1986 National Heritage Fel-
lowships Program, the National Endowment for the
Arts’ annual presentation of America’s foremost folk art-
ists and artisans. Upper-level donors enjoyed receptions
Bob O'Donnell, lecturer, Smithsonian National Associates Lec-
ture and Seminar Program, is seen here with a young student dur-
ing the Fossil Identification workshop in Laramie, Wyoming,
October 1985. (Photograph by Karol Griffin)

and viewing of the exhibitions Selections from the
Joseph H. Hirshhorn Bequest at the Hirshhorn Museum
and Sculpture Garden and Art in New Mexico at the
National Museum of American Art, and received tickets
to the National Gallery of Art’s Treasure Houses of Bri-
tain exhibition.

In 1986, complimentary publications issued to mem-
bers included Magnificent Voyagers, published by the
Smithsonian Institutron Press to accompany the National
Museum of Natural History’s major exhibition, and
Flight of the Pterosaurs and Treasures from the National
Museum of American Art, also Smithsonian Institution
Press publications. Additionally, the Smithsonian Engage-
ment Calendar, produced by Smithsonian Product Devel-
opment and Licensing, is mailed each year to all Con-
tributing Members. Because the Contributing
Membership Program can guarantee large press runs,

bureaus can issue quality publications at significantly
lower prices.

In a similar cooperative manner, Contributing Mem-
bers within the Washington metropolitan area are en-
rolled automatically in the Resident Associate Program,
thus supporting its monthly newsletter and classes.
Members outside this area receive Research Reports,
published three times a year by the Office of Public Af-
fairs to highlight special research and educational
projects under way throughout the Institution.

Through the Smithsonian Treasures annual tour de-
signed by the Associates Travel Program, Contributing
Members enjoy an exclusive behind-the-scenes five-day
visit to the Institution. And, during the course of Lecture
and Seminar Programs in communities nationwide, Con-
tributing Members are offered priority registration, com-
plimentary tickets to one lecture, and often an invitation
to an accompanying informal reception. Such special
treatment reinforces the message that Contributing Mem-
bers are important to the Smithsonian and forwards the
development of a loyal national constituency responsive
to future fund-raising appeals.

Lecture and Seminar Program

The Lecture and Seminar Program, established in 1975,
takes Smithsonian-originated educational programs to
approximately twenty cities in the United States each
year. Under the sponsorship of the Lecture and Seminar
Program, Smithsonian scientists, curators, and scholars
travel to selected cities to present series of lectures, semi-
nars, and hands-on workshops designed to better ac-
quaint National Associate members, members of cospon-
soring organizations, and the general public with the
research and activities of the national museum. Each se-
ries is specifically designed to meet the interests of indi-
vidual communities. Events have been held in every re-
gion of the country, from major metropolitain areas to
small communities. Included in each series are programs
designed to meet the interests of adults, children, and
family groups. In addition to bringing Smithsonian pro-
grams to members throughout the country, the Lecture
and Seminar Program invites National Members to study
with Smithsonian curators during week-long seminars in
Washington, D.C. The Washington seminars, highlight-
ing Smithsonian collections, combine lectures with
behind-the-scenes tours of Smithsonian museums.
During 1986, more than 445,000 families were invited
to attend more than 200 Smithsonian events across the

165
Smithsonian Associates visit Igua¢u Falls, Brazil, during an epic
study-voyage around Cape Horn.

country. This year, for the first time, the Lecture and
Seminar Program visited Laramie and Cheyenne, Wyo-
ming; Syracuse and Buffalo, New York; Sarasota, Flor-
ida; Pasadena, California; Reno, Fallon, and Carson
City, Nevada; Charleston, West Virginia; Berkshire
County, Massachusetts; Aiken, South Carolina; and
Boone, North Carolina. The program returned to Albu-
querque, New Mexico; Anchorage and Juneau, Alaska,
Portland, Oregon; Tucson, Arizona; and San Diego, Cal-
ifornia. Proclamations honoring the Smithsonian visits
were issued by the mayors of Pasadena, Tucson, Chey-
enne, and Boone.

The Lecture and Seminar Program cooperated with
more than 120 local organizations throughout the coun-
try this year, including museums, colleges, universities,
and cultural centers. Several organizations continued to
lend support on a national level, including United Air-
lines, EAA Aviation Foundation, the American Associa-
tion of Retired Persons, the National Trust for Historic
Preservation, World Wildlife Fund—U.S., and Sigma Xi,
the Scientific Research Society.

Thirty-two new programs made their debut in the Lec-
ture and Seminar Program during 1986. Among these
were: “The Old Ship of Zion: An Evening of Afro-
American Gospel Music” by Horace Boyer, National
Museum of American History; “Animal Communication:
Classic Studies and New Discoveries” by Michael
Robinson, director, and other staff members of the

166

National Zoological Park; and “Man’s Quest for Wings:
Highlights of Aviation History” by E. T. Wooldridge,
Claudia Oakes, and R. E. G. Davies, National Air and
Space Museum, with Paul MacCready, designer of the
Ouetzalcoatlus northropi.

Five Washington seminars were held during the past
year: “New Perspectives on American Art,” “Anthropol-
ogy at the Smithsonian,” “Creative Writing,” “Highlights
of Aviation History,’ and “18th-Century Baroque Music.”
In January, under the auspices of the Lecture and Semi-
nar Program, eleven British scholars traveled to the
United States to conduct two weeks of specialized semi-
nars to complement the exhibition, Treasure Houses of
Great Britain at the National Gallery of Art. Associates
from around the country came to Washington to attend
seminars on painting, textiles, heraldry, pottery, and jew-
elry and to be guided through the exhibition by British
experts.

In 1986, for the first time, the Lecture and Seminar
Program initiated week-long residential seminars outside
of Washington, D.C. This concept proved highly success-
ful during its premiere in Boone, North Carolina.
Smithsonian seminars, hosted by Appalachian State Uni-
versity, drew 130 members from thirty states to Boone to
study fossils, creative writing, and American art in the
serene setting of the Blue Ridge mountains.

After a successful debut of the Lecture and Seminar
Program in Tokyo during 1985, plans are in progress for
future international ventures.

Associates Travel Program

The Associates Travel Program presents educational
study tours that mirror the interests and concerns of the
Institution. Tours are designed for members who are par-
ticularly interested in the work of the national museum
and the subjects in Smithsonian magazine. The educa-
tional content of both foreign and domestic tours is en-
hanced by study leaders, and each trip is attended by
one or more Smithsonian staff members. Since 1975,
more than 66,000 members have participated in study
tours throughout the world; in 1986, 6,600 members
traveled on 105 programs.

This year, National Associates chose from forty-one
Domestic Study Tours to all parts of the United States.
Domestic cruises continued to grow in popularity. In
September the Delta Queen steamed down the Ohio
River from Cincinnati to St. Louis, docking at cities and
historic sites along the way. While cruising Alaska’s In-
side Passage, Associates were thrilled to see humpback
whales and glaciers at close range. Perhaps the most
spectacular cruise of the year was in New England and
on the Hudson River, with two days in New York Har-
bor for the festivities celebrating the unveiling of the
Statue of Liberty.

Land trips were offered to a variety of destinations
across the country, covering subjects such as architecture,
history, and current cultural trends. A program to south
Louisiana introduced members to Cajun food and music.
While tracing Colorado’s mining and railroad history,
members explored the San Juan mountains by jeep and
narrow-gauge railroad. Antiques and historic homes
highlighted a tour to Wilmington, Delaware, and to the
Brandywine Valley in Pennsylvania.

Associates continue to seek the adventure and wonder
of the outdoors. The most popular natural history pro-
grams took participants to national parks such as
Arches, Canyonlands, Bryce, and Zion. Some members
studied the ecosystems of tidal pools along the coast of
Maine while others explored the deserts of Arizona. As-
sociates also joined archaeologists in Cortez, Colorado,
to dig for artifacts at an Anasazi Indian site.

More than 3,000 members participated in “Washington
Anytime Weekend,” designed to give members an oppor-
tunity to visit the nation’s capital and the Smithsonian
any weekend during the year. The program is executed
in cooperation with the Visitor Information and
Associates’ Reception Center, which provides a behind-
the-scenes tour of the Castle and is available for infor-
mation and guidance during weekends. A new feature
added this year was a viewing of a National Air and
Space Museum IMAX film.

Foreign Study Tours continued to serve the diverse in-
terests of National Associates by offering a variety of
activities and destinations. New tours included “Back-
stage London” with backstage visits and discussions re-
lating to performances. In the Dordogne region of
France, members visited outstanding prehistoric caves, as
well as fortified towns, monasteries, and castles dating
to the Middle Ages. A decorative arts and design pro-
gram included special lectures and demonstrations at
museums and ateliers in Copenhagen, Stockholm, and
Helsinki.

Associates retraced the routes of Magellan, Drake, and
Darwin on a history-making expedition, sailing from
Rio, around Cape Horn, through the Beagle Channel
and the Strait of Magellan, and north through Chile’s
inland waterway to Puerto Montt. On board ship, they
learned about the geology, flora, and fauna of the area

: é i
cas BE NS ee ee _—

Smithsonian Associates, aboard the Nantucket Clipper (large
craft at top), had a prime spot for viewing the Statue of Liberty
festivities in July 1986. (Photograph by Lucian Perkins, The
Washington Post)

and discussed history and current politics of Latin Amer-
ica. On shore, they traveled by chartered train and plane
to Iguacu Falls, observed a penguin colony at Punta
Tombo, and visited local museums in Punta Arenas and
Ushuaia. On other study voyages, Associates studied his-
tory and literature while circumnavigating the British
Isles, focused on art and architecture on a journey
around Italy from Venice to Genoa, discussed marine
biology and maritime history on the fifth annual Atlantic
crossing, and learned about cultural and artistic tradi-
tions of Borneo, the Moluccas, and Papua New Guinea.
China continued to be popular with 430 members
traveling on fifteen tours. The Yangtze River tours were
in great demand, as were “Decorative Arts and
Antiques,” “China by Train,” and “Hiking the Sacred

167
Peaks of China.” In addition to China, outdoor enthusi-
asts hiked in the Black Forest of Germany, along New
Zealand’s famed Milford Track, and through the north
central Highlands of Scotland.

On an epic journey of 7,436 miles, seven countries,
and two continents, National Associates traveled from
Paris to Shanghai by train with visits to Berlin, Moscow,
Irkutsk, Ulan Bator, and Beijing. Other Smithsonian
travelers entered Tibet via China, and, after a week’s
stay in Lhasa and Xigazé, traveled by jeep on the rugged
overland route from Tibet to Kathmandu, Nepal.

Countryside programs allowed members to live in
small towns in Italy, England, Austria, and Switzerland.
Residential seminars included history and art in
Florence, and the eighth annual Oxford/Smithsonian
Seminar, which offered specially designed courses in the
arts and sciences. In late summer, ninety-five members
participated in the Smithsonian’s first Volga Seminar. Af-
ter traveling in three separate groups focusing on art and
architecture, history, or present-day concerns in the So-
viet Union, members joined together for a ten-day Volga
cruise with lectures and language classes on board and
activities and visits each day on shore.

The Smithsonian National Associate Program contin-
ues to increase services to its members as it encourages
private support for the Institution. Inherent in the ap-
proach of the program is an emphasis on educational
pursuits, member participation, public awareness, and
cooperation with Smithsonian bureaus and like-minded
organizations nationwide.

168

Smithsonian Resident
Associate Program

The Resident Associate Program (RAP) is a model for
museum and university programs nationally and interna-
tionally. RAP’s mission is to support the work of the In-
stitution and to engage residents of the greater Washing-
ton area in the life of the Smithsonian by complementing
the Institution’s collections, exhibitions, and research;
presenting educational and cultural programs consistent
with the Institution’s interests; collaborating with inter-
national, national, and local institutions to reach
broader audiences; and serving and retaining members as
well as attracting new members. To meet these objec-
tives, RAP offered nearly 2,000 innovative, high-quality,
timely activities attended by more than 270,000 adults
and young people.

Fiscal year 1986 was a success. With an increased
membership, higher retention rate, and larger registra-
tion income than in the previous year, RAP continued to
be self-supporting, except for Discovery Theater and per-
forming arts activities, which are mandated to receive
subsidy from the Institution. Total membership exceeded
57,000 with a retention rate of over 80 percent. Small
grants from local and national foundations and corpora-
tions enabled RAP to carry out special outreach projects
and other activities otherwise not possible; through the
commission and sale of a serigraph by the late Gene
Davis, RAP realized income to support the renovation of
the Discover Graphics studio.

Cooperation with Smithsonian Bureaus
and Major Offices

During fiscal year 1986, RAP cosponsored two lectures
with the National Portrait Gallery: “American Heiresses
Become British Brides” by British biographer Nigel Nicol-
son and “The Washingtonians: Intimate Portraits” by
American historian Gary Wills. RAP and the National
Portrait Gallery also cosponsored two “Portraits in Mo-
tion” performances. A two-day seminar with Stephen Jay
Gould as one of the speakers, “Men of Daring, Triumphs
of Exploration” was cosponsored with the National Mu-
seum of Natural History in conjunction with the exhibi-
tion Magnificent Voyagers: The U.S. Exploring Expedi-
tion, 1838-1842. Some Discovery Theater programs, such
as “Exploring the Smithsonian,” were cosponsored with
the National Museum of Natural History, as were Black
History Month performances such as “Memory of Afri-
can Culture,” organized by Discovery Theater. The Hir-
shhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden and RAP have
continued to cosponsor the 20th Century Consort series,
and in addition three lectures: “Sandro Chia and
Howard Fox: A Dialogue,” “The Ceramic Sculpture of
Robert Arneson,” and “My Life with Joe” by Olga Hirsh-
horn. The various Smithsonian chamber music series
continued under National Museum of American History
and RAP cosponsorship. The Chesapeake Bay Environ-
mental Research Center of the Smithsonian collaborated
on naturalist tours by providing staff scientists for tour
leaders. Programmatic cooperation with the Smithsonian
Institution Traveling Exhibition Service and staff partici-
pation as lecturers in Office of Museum Programs work-
shops were ongoing. The director continues to serve as
senior advisor to the Office of Museum Programs Kel-
logg Project. Courses and lectures are regularly planned
in collaboration with the Woodrow Wilson International
Center for Scholars, such as “The Soviet Union Under
Gorbachev,” a lecture by Peter Reddaway, program sec-
retary of the Kennan Institute for Advanced Russian
Studies; and the courses “Marxism and Ideology of So-
cialism,” taught by Woodrow Wilson Fellow Svetozar
Stojanovich, and “The Phillipines: Turmoil in the Pa-
cific,’ cosponsored with the Asia Program of the
Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars.

Outreach

The Discover Graphics program affords talented area
public high school students and their art teachers the free
opportunity to learn etching and lithography, using fine
Smithsonian presses. Now in its third year, Discover
Graphics has enabled over 200 participants annually to
receive studio training, combined with Smithsonian mu-
seum visits and the loan of portable presses to the
schools. A student exhibition of selected prints, juried by
Smithsonian curators and held during summer 1986 at
the National Museum of American History, was partially
underwritten by a grant from the Women’s Committee of
the Smithsonian Associates. Owing to the spring 1986
closing of the Lansburgh Center, Discover Graphics left
the studio space where it had been housed for the past
two and one-half years. While it is temporarily housed at
the roth and K Streets space of the Union Printmakers,
plans are under way for the renovation of existing studio
space in the Arts and Industries Building to provide a
new permanent home on the Mall for this valuable out-
reach program.

Scholarships were awarded, through the public school
system, to fifty-eight inner city young people and
seventy-four adults to attend Young Associate and adult

courses this fiscal year. In addition, five inner-city young
people served as youth teacher assistants for Young Asso-
ciate Summer Camp, under the auspices of the Smith-
sonian Career Awareness Program.

The twentieth annual Kite Festival took place on the
Mall in March, with 1,200 persons in attendance.

Especially designed to appeal to retired people, “Tues-
day Mornings at the Smithsonian” is a daytime weekly
lecture series. The thirty-two lectures by Smithsonian
scholars attracted 8,200 participants this year.

Singles Evenings at the Castle was initiated in fall 1985
for working singles. This series of lectures by Smith-
sonian scholars was very well received. In fiscal year
1986, a total of twenty-four lectures were attended by
3,800 participants; registration was restricted to 100 men
and 100 women so that the evenings could combine dis-
cussion about the lecture and the opportunity to social-
ize.

Collaboration with Community, Regional, National, and
International Organizations

For the thirteenth consecutive year, RAP cosponsored ten
monthly lectures with the Audubon Naturalist Society
and the Friends of the National Zoo. This year’s series
attracted more than 10,500 persons. RAP collaborated
with organizations such as the American Institute of Ar-
chitects and the AIA Foundation; Washington-Alexandria
Center for Architecture; Virginia Polytechnic Institute
and State University; Pennsylvania Avenue Development
Corporation; D.C. Preservation League; Art Directors
Club of Metropolitan Washington; Federal Design Coun-
cil; American Institute of Graphic Arts; American Society
of Interior Design; Metropolitan Chapter, Council for
the Advancement and Support of Education; Meridian
House International; National Park Service; Pro Musicis
Foundation; District Curators; World Folk Music Associ-
ation; National Institutes of Health; International Poetry
Forum; and D.C. Library Association. The Baltimore—
D.C. Institute for Psychoanalysis cosponsored the film
series “Creativity and Fantasy: A Psychoanalytic Inter-
pretation of Film”; the National Geographic Society co-
sponsored the six-part lecture series “Explorers in the
Modern Era”; the James Renwick Collectors’ Alliance
cosponsored the all-day seminar “Living with Wood”;
and St. John’s College, Maryland, cosponsored “St.
John’s Seminar: Classical and Modern Concepts of Man
and Society.”

Many lectures, courses, films, and performances were

169
planned in collaboration with foreign embassies and in-
ternational societies: “The Discerning Traveler in China”,
“Study and Tour of Norway”; “New Zealand: New Per-
spectives”; “The Discerning Traveler in Ireland”; “Indo-
nesia: The Golden Isles”; the seminar “Budapest and
Vienna: Jewels on the Danube”; the film Rembrandt the
Drawer and the performance “Jazz Goes Dutch” by Wil-
lem Breuker Kollectief. The “Classic Japanese Theater:
The Great Traditions of Noh and Kyogen” was cospon-
sored with the Japan-America Society of Washington and
the studio arts course, “A Master Demonstrates the Art
of Japanese Embroidery: Shuji Tamura” with the
Kurenai-Kai School of Embroidery, Chiba, Japan.

Telecommunications

During fiscal year 1986, the course “Ascendancy of Asia:
The Pacific Community in the 21st Century,” organized
in conjunction with the Woodrow Wilson Center’s Asia
Program and the Asia Foundation, was videotaped for
distribution to national and international audiences in
the coming year. WoRLDNET, the U.S. Information
Agency’s telecommunications system carrying programs
abroad by satellite and seen through U.S. embassy posts,
and RAP collaborated on twelve programs in fiscal year
1986. Seven RAP programs were on Almanac, ranging
from the performance of Billy Taylor to the Kite Festival
on the Mall to an interview with Julia Child. The Arts
America program featured three RAP performances.

Programs

Courses

Four terms per year, RAP presents higher education
courses providing educated adults an opportunity to
study with Smithsonian and visiting scholars. In fiscal
year 1986, over 200 lecture courses were scheduled, and
attendance at single lectures reached 56,000. Among the
most popular were: “Masters of Portrait Photography,”
featuring presentations by Yousuf Karsh, Annie Leibov-
itz, and Helmet Newton; “Literary Evenings: Writers on
Writing” with Pulitzer prize winner Larry McMurtry,
Peter Benchley, Martin Cruz Smith, and Jean Auel; and
“Origin of the Universe,” including physicist Alan Guth.
The RAP course “American English in Washington,

170

D.C.,” planned for the international and diplomatic com-
munities, attracted nationwide attention.

The studio arts program enhances appreciation of age-
old crafts and introduces contemporary crafts. In all,
over 300 courses and workshops were presented, with an
attendance of nearly 15,000. Guest instructors included
Unichi Hiratsuka, Japanese woodcut master; Jef Van
Grieken, Belgian painter; and Shou-chen Zhang, master
painter from the People’s Republic of China. Courses
ranged from “Celestial Photography” (with an eye to
Halley’s comet) and “How to Design and Build a Light
Aircraft” to more traditional art forms such as “Painted
Trompe L’Oeil Finishes,” “The Shaker Oval Box,” and
“Furniture Design and Construction Techniques.”

Lectures, Seminars, and Films

Single lectures, intensive one- and two-day seminars, and
scholarly symposia addressed a wide range of cultural
topics. Individual films and film series featured U.S. or
Washington premieres, foreign cultures, or salutes to
well-known artists.

Notable speakers appearing at the Smithsonian under
RAP auspices in fiscal year 1986 included economist John
Kenneth Galbraith, scientist Jonas Salk, astrophysicist
Charles Townes, the Honorable A. Leon Higginbotham,
sociologist and writer Nathan Glazer, pilot Chuck
Yeager, author Sheilah Graham, biographer of Isak Dine-
sen, Judith Thurman, Titanic discoverer Robert Ballard,
and engineer Paul MacCready. A total of 33,600 partici-
pants attended the 130 lectures offered.

More than 1,600 Resident Associates participated in
eighteen all-day seminars. Some of the more notable
seminars included “The High Drama of the Ottoman
Sultans,” “Biotechnology: Risks and Rewards,” “The
Splendor of Versailles,” and “Human Origins and the En-
vironment.”

Among the over sixty films shown during the year, to
audiences totaling 13,000, were the American premieres
of the documentaries A Thousand Cranes and Rembr-
andt the Drawer. Washington film premieres included the
award-winning Canadian movie, My American Cousin,
Bronte, and a film series celebrating the Festival of India.

Performing Arts

In its third year of sponsoring ticketed Smithsonian per-
forming arts events, RAP presented over 140 events at-
tended by 32,400 persons. Highlights of the season were
visits by international ensembles such as the Hanover
Band of London, the Willem Brueker Kollectief from
Amsterdam, the Nagauta To-On-Kai from Japan, and
the Ganelin Jazz Trio from the Soviet Union, in its first
North American tour, as well as individual artists such
as Canadian harpsichordist and scholar Kenneth Gilbert.
The jazz series explored the musical legacies of Jelly Roll
Morton, Fats Waller, Horace Silver and Tadd Dameron,
and the legendary Thelonious Monk in four performances
assembled and narrated by Martin Williams, jazz expert
and editor at the Smithsonian Institution Press. Jazz
legend Billy Taylor saluted Black History Month in his
February concert.

The wide range of performances included magician
Harry Blackstone, Jr.; Spanish dance scholar and teacher
Marina Keet and the Spanish Dance Society USA; and
the avant-garde theatrical magic of The Impossible The-
ater. During this year RAP inaugurated with the Pro
Musicis Foundation a series of concerts by emerging
young performers, and continued the series of poetry
readings combined with musical presentations in collabo-
ration with the International Poetry Forum. Resident
Associates were offered a variety of classical and contem-
porary chamber music programs by the Emerson String
Quartet, 20th Century Consort, Smithson String Quar-
tet, Smithsonian Chamber Players, and Smithsonian
Chamber Orchestra.

Study Tours

On-site learning experiences, lasting from one hour to
three days, are organized for small groups in the fields of
art, architecture, archaeology, history, industry, and sci-
ence. Unique tours include visits to private sites orga-
nized in cooperation with local historical societies and
private collectors such as the “Barnes and Arensberg Col-
lections” and “Autumn at Winterthur and Eleutherian
Mills,” and the popular Frank Lloyd Wright’s Falling-
water. Cooperative efforts with other agencies have re-
sulted in programs such as the Mall wetland ecology
walks led by National Park Service scientists. Initiated in
1984-85, the tours for working singles, such as the “In-
somniacs Tour of Baltimore,’ have increased in popular-
ity. Throughout the year, 557 tours—all kept small for
maximum learning experience—attracted a total of
18,000 participants.

Young Associate and Family Activities

Through Young Associate and Family Activities, young
people ages four to fifteen can participate in the life of
the Smithsonian. Workshops, classes, monthly free films,
tours, performances, and family lecture programs cover
the disciplines of art, humanities, and sciences. Adult/
child workshops and classes provide dynamic iearning
opportunities. Summer Camp sessions are team-taught
by teachers of different disciplines. A Family Halloween
Party is held in a different museum each year; a winter
film and reception are planned in conjunction with the
Trees of Christmas exhibition in the National Museum
of American History; and an Evening at the Zoo is
scheduled each summer, accompanied by live musical
entertainment and private viewings of animal feedings.
Over 160 Young Associate and Family Activities pro-
grams attracted an attendance of more than 15,000 indi-
viduals this year.

Discovery Theater presents entertainment and educa-
tional experiences for young people and their families,
October through June. Live theatrical performances are
presented twice a day, Tuesday through Saturday, with
extra performances during Black History Month. Over
65,400 individuals attended 370 performances during the
season. A new series of performances, designed solely for
preschool children in the early afternoon in the months
of November and March, was instituted.

Volunteers

More than 400 volunteers provided invaluable
assistance. The ninety-seven volunteer office workers and
activity monitors represented the equivalent of 19.1 full-
time staff members; office volunteers represented 9.1 full-
time staff. All volunteers were honored for their contri-
butions at a reception in the Arts and Industries Building
Rotunda on September 4.

171
Women’s Committee of the
Smithsonian Associates

The sixty-four active and fifty-nine resource members of
the Women’s Committee of the Smithsonian Associates
continued to advance the interests of the Smithsonian
through fund-raising, special projects, and hospitality on
a volunteer basis. The members of the committee gave
more than 7,100 hours of their time to the Smithsonian
in fiscal year 1986. The committee awarded $93,162 to
thirty-nine projects in seventeen museums and bureaus.
These monies were the net proceeds made available by
the 1985 Christmas Dance and the 1985 Washington Craft
Show. Projects were supported in amounts from $500 to
$5,000.

The National Zoological Park received funding for a
digitizer to analyze weaning of sea lion pups; a micro-
computer for the Captive Breeding Program; the compi-
lation of a bibliography of childrens books about zoos; a
small mammal management and husbandry audiovisual
archives; video recording equipment for BIRDlab; the
initiation of a program to monitor reproductive cycles of
endangered hoof stock at Front Royal, Virginia; a real-
time analyzer for research in vocal communication of
animals; the publication of a study of disease processes
in zoo animals; video recording equipment to study
Guam rails and kingfishers; and continued support of
graduate student stipends for the reproductive physiology
program.

Additionally, the National Museum of American His-
tory received funds for the publication of the out-of-print
educational brochure Go; a film series of programs inter-
preting the history of science and technology; a Black
American composers concert; the conservation of paint-
ings from the Division of Domestic Life; a photographic
record of 600 pieces of ethnic women’s costumes from
eastern Europe; a videodisc of the Donald Sultner-Welles
Photography Collection; a data-base system to organize
documents relating to the work of Robert Mills; and a
pamphlet for the Hall of Postal History.

The National Air and Space Museum was given funds
to catalogue its collection of archival videotapes and
films; for a series of seminars on the history of technol-
ogy for universities nationwide; for the purchase of pre-
sentation slide generator and software for instant genera-
tion of color slides; and for personnel to copy selected
portions of James Webb’s papers at the Truman Library.
Funding was granted to the National Museum of Natu-
ral History for diving equipment for research in Belize
and Chinese botanical and horticultural literature trans-
lations. The National Portrait Gallery was granted mon-
ies to copy the Gilbert Stuart portrait of Thomas Jeffer-

172

The Women’s Committee of the Smithsonian Associates held its
fourth annual Washington Craft Show on April 18-20, 1986, in
the Departmental Auditorium.

son and also to experiment with a system developed by
NASM for collections documentation.

In other areas, funding was made available to the Hir-
shhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden for a docent en-
richment seminar; to the Freer Gallery to purchase Chi-
nese K’ang-hse—period porcelain; to the Smithsonian
Institution Traveling Exhibition Service to plan an exhi-
bition on the Space Shuttle and to help in the production
of a new version of exhibition entitled Know What You
See: The Examination and Treatment of Paintings; to the
Cooper-Hewitt Museum to subsidize school group tours;
to the Smithsonian Institution Libraries for the preserva-
tion of historical photographs; to the Office of Horticul-
ture for an intern for the Fragrant Garden; and to the
Office of Folklife Programs for the production of the
booklet Aditi and the Mela: Festival of India Exhibitions
at the Smithsonian Institution. In addition, funding was
awarded to the Office of Fellowships and Grants for a
slide presentation, Research Opportunities at the
Smithsonian; to the Resident Associate Program for con-
tinued support of its Discover Graphics project; to the
Office of Exhibits Central for graphics software and
training; and to the Conservation Analytical Laboratory.

One hundred artists from twenty-seven states partici-
pated in the fourth annual Washington Craft Show held
April 18-20, 1986, in the Departmental Auditorium. The
artists were selected by three jurors: Cynthia Bringle, a
distinguished potter from Penland, North Carolina; Ar-
line Fisch, jeweler and professor of art at San Diego
State University, California; and Lloyd Herman, director
of the Renwick Gallery. Over 15,000 people attended the
show; sales were up substantially from the previous year.
As in the past, a preview fund-raising party was held on
April 17. A silent auction, organized by the resource
members of the committee, was held at the Departmen-
tal Auditorium concurrently with the Craft Show. A
High School Craft Competition for the District of Co-
lumbia and six surrounding school districts was held to
recognize quality student work and offer young artists
contact with some of the country’s finest craftsmen.

In November, three members of the Women’s Commit-
tee opened their homes to ninety Contributing Members
visiting Washington for a special behind-the-scenes
Smithsonian tour.
UNDER SEPARA E
BOARDS OF
TRUSTEES
John E. Kennedy Center
for the Performing Arts

Roger L. Stevens, Chairman

The John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts,
organized by an act of Congress in 1958 as a self-
sustaining bureau of the Smithsonian Institution, is both
a presidential memorial under the aegis of the Depart-
ment of the Interior and a privately supported perform-
ing arts center directed by a board of trustees whose
thirty citizen members are appointed by the President of
the United States. Six congressional representatives and
nine designated ex officio representatives of the executive
branch complete the membership of forty-five. This an-
nual report of the Kennedy Center’s activities encom-
passes all the programming presented not only in its five
theaters but also around the nation through its touring
and education programs.

Unlike many regional performing arts centers, the
Kennedy Center, as the national cultural center, is specif-
ically directed by its authorizing legislation to develop
and present a broad array of performing arts program-
ming—including theater, music, opera, ballet, dance, and
educational and public service activities—in Washington,
D.C., and across the country to provide the greatest pos-
sible public access. Since no direct federal appropriations
are provided, the fulfillment of this congressional man-
date is made possible by earned income, primarily from
ticket sales, and by the contributions of millions of dol-
lars from the private sector. The Kennedy Center’s future
and long-range artistic programming, though, are par-
tially secured financially through an ongoing endowment
campaign begun in 1985.

This year marked the fifteenth anniversary of the
Kennedy Center’s opening to the public—a landmark
witnessed by a remarkable increase in the number of free
performances given here by the Education Program and
the American National Theater, as well as a higher total
of young people attending them. The music season was
highlighted by an expanded calendar of events capped by
the affiliation of the Kennedy Center and the National
Symphony Orchestra at the end of the year. The affilia-
tion is designed to help secure the NSO’s long-range fi-
nancial future and continued artistic excellence while
enhancing the Kennedy Center’s broad national mandate
to present and foster the finest in all the performing arts.

Performing Arts Programming

The 1985-86 season at the Kennedy Center was attended
by 1,189,185 people in the Opera House, Concert Hall,
and the Eisenhower and Terrace theaters. And an un-
precedented 99,253 people attended the free performances

176

in the Free Theater/ Theater Lab, Holiday Festival,
Friends of the Kennedy Center Open House, and other
events throughout the year.

Drama and Musical Theater

The 1985-86 theater season began with the critically ac-
claimed one-woman drama, Lillian, which brought to
life the works, the times, and the person of Lillian Hell-
man through Zoe Caldwell’s powerful performance. The
season closed with a revival of Rodgers and Hammer-
stein’s Carousel and William Gibson and Joe Raposo’s
new musical Raggedy Ann. During the season there were
faithful revivals of several favorites—Noel Coward’s Hay
Fever, Herman Wouk’s Pulitzer prize-winning The Caine
Mutiny Court-Martial, and Frederick Lonsdale’s stylish
Aren’t We All? Also of note was Martha Clarke’s expres-
sionistic theater piece from the New York Shakespeare
Festival, Vienna: Lusthaus.

The American National Theater (ANT), under the
auspices of the Kennedy Center, began its ambitious sea-
son with adventurous interpretations of two twentieth-
century classics—Anton Chekhov’s A Seagull and Robert
E. Sherwood’s Idiot’s Delight—both directed by ANT
director Peter Sellars. As part of its international and
regional companies series, ANT hosted several distinctive
theater groups, which provided a unique opportunity to
sample the astonishing range of theater from around the
world. New York’s Wooster Group presented three
group-created, fully staged works-in-progress (two of
them free to the public). The Squat Theater, also from
New York and free of charge, presented the multimedia
Dreamland Burns. Dario Fo and Franca Rame, stars of
the Italian stage, each presented a one-person spectacle
in the Free Theater. The Haifa Municipal Theater pre-
sented two works in Hebrew and an Arabic language
production of Athol Fugard’s The Island. And the Wilma
Theater of Philadelphia offered its multimedia staging of
George Orwell’s 1984.

Also, the American National Theater and California’s
La Jolla Playhouse each created a production—Ajax and
Shout Up A Morning, respectively—which premiered in
its own city and then was traded in a unique transconti-
nental theatrical exchange as part of the ongoing AT&T
Performing Arts Festival at the Kennedy Center. To close
the American National Theater season, Richard
Thomas, who had performed the leading role in ANT’s
production of The Count of Monte Cristo the previous
season, returned with David Warrilow to play in Two
Figures in Dense, Violet Light, Peter Sellars’s final pro-
duction before a sabbatical.

The list of outstanding performers who participated in
this diverse season included Zoe Caldwell, Claudette
Colbert, Ben Cross, Colleen Dewhurst, Roy Dotrice,
Rosemary Harris, Rex Harrison, Charlton Heston, Stacy
Keach, Werner Klemperer, Kelly McGillis, Milo O’Shea,
JoBeth Williams, and Tom Wopat.

Dance

The 1985-86 ballet season saw the Washington debut of
the historic Paris Opera Ballet and the return of several
favorite companies.

After a season’s absence, the New York City Ballet
launched the Ballet in America season that included
Washington premieres by Jerome Robbins (In Memory
Of...) and Peter Martins (Poulenc Sonata). Stuttgart
Ballet resumed the tradition of presenting international
companies at the Opera House, returning to Washington
for the first time since 1980 with a controversial, full-
length A Streetcar Named Desire. The season ended with
the Paris Opera Ballet’s Washington debut in dance direc-
tor Rudolf Nureyev’s staging of Swan Lake. American
Ballet Theatre, Houston Ballet, the Joffrey Ballet, and
the Dance Theatre of Harlem rounded out the season.

Ballet programs were complemented by contemporary
and ethnic dancing. Dance America, sponsored jointly
by the Washington Performing Arts Society and the
Kennedy Center, brought some of the country’s most im-
portant modern dance ensembles to the nation’s capital.
Also the Antologia de la Zarzuela presented genuine
Spanish folk and classical dancing at the Opera House;
and the American Ballroom Theater simultaneously
turned the Terrace Theater into a nostalgic dance hall
and vibrant showcase for the latest styles.

Music

Stars from around the world, as well as a host of tal-
ented emerging artists, were presented in several sub-
scription series concerts and individual musical events
throughout the year.

The annual Kennedy Center Friedheim Awards, de-
signed to recognize and encourage the creation of new
American music, resulted in the first tie for first place in
the eight-year history of the awards. The winners this
year were Robert Erickson’s Solstice and Donald Marti-
no’s String Quartet.

Elisabeth Platel of the Paris Opera Ballet is shown performing in
Swan Lake in July 1986 at the Kennedy Center Opera House.

The Kennedy Center Handel Festival celebrated its
tenth anniversary concert performances with a reprise of
the composer’s popular Saul and the national premier of
LAllegro, il penseroso ed il moderato. The Terrace Con-
certs—composed of piano and vocal recitals, chamber
ensembles and orchestras, the International Series, and
the Young Concert Artists series—presented twenty-nine
performances highlighted by the Dresden Chamber Or-
chestra, duo pianists Misha and Cipa Dichter, tenor
Siegfried Jerusalem, the Romero Guitar Quartet, pianist
David Lively, and an evening of music devoted to George
Crumb, the country’s foremost avant-garde composer,
who appeared in person.
The number of pop acts appearing at the Kennedy
Center increased, largely through the Summer Fun Festi-
val. This year’s line-up included a concert by recording
artist Dionne Warwick and the Chinese Dragon Acrobats
and Magicians of Taipei.

Theater Chamber Players, Mostly Mozart Festival,
Choral Arts Society, Chamber Music Society of Lincoln
Center, the Oratorio Society, and the Paul Hill Chorale
returned for their annual subscription concerts.

And a multitude of free events, many featuring musi-
cians from the Washington metropolitan area, took place
thanks to the Holiday Festival in December and the
Friends of the Kennedy Center’s second annual open
house, Inside/Out, in June.

Kennedy Center Associate Organizations

Many events that take place at the Kennedy Center are
produced by one of the Center’s artistic associates: the
American Film Institute (AFI), which presents classic
films, independent features, foreign films, and contempo-
rary video works in its 224-seat theater; and the Wash-
ington Opera, which this season presented Mozart’s Don
Giovanni, Tchaikovsky’s Eugene Onegin, and Verdi’s Un
ballo in maschera in the Opera House, and Donizetti’s
Daughter of the Regiment and Offenbach’s Christopher
Columbus in the Terrace Theater.

The National Symphony Orchestra (which completed
its administrative affiliation with the Kennedy Center at
the end of the year) presented twenty-nine different pro-
grams in twenty-eight weeks under the direction of
Mstislav Rostropovich, including two world premieres
and the American premiere of Krzysztof Penderecki’s Pol-
ish Requiem.

In addition, the Washington Performing Arts Society
presented an impressive array of music and dance perfor-
mances throughout its nine-month season, including a
one-week engagement of the Ballet of China on its pre-
miere U.S. tour.

Public Service Programming

The Kennedy Center is specifically directed by Congress
to carry out a broad range of educational and public ser-
vice programs, including the activities of the National
Program for Cultural Diversity, which is committed to
encouraging programs that reflect our nation’s cultural
and ethnic diversity by sponsoring performances, com-

178

Rex Harrison and Claudette Colbert starred in Frederick Lons-
dale’s Aren’t We All? at the Kennedy Center Opera House
December to, 1985, to January 6, 1986. (Photograph by Zoe
Dominic)

missions, workshops, conferences, internships, and advi-
sory and technical services in arts administration. With
the exception of partial U.S. Department of Education
funding for its national education efforts, these programs
are supported by funds privately raised by the Kennedy
Center. In fiscal year 1986, $2.58 million was allocated
from the Kennedy Center’s private contributions for the
support of the national education programs, cultural di-
versity activities and the privately subsidized presentation
of theater, music and dance, including many free and
low-admission performances and events enjoyed by more
than a million people in Washington, D.C., and around
the country. In addition, 16,178 people visited and used
the Performing Arts Library.

Education Programming

As the national cultural center, the Kennedy Center has a
responsibility to advance all the arts in the education of
the nation’s youth. To meet this challenge in 1986, the
Kennedy Center Education Program sponsored perfor-
mances and other events that reached more than three
million people nationwide through three components:
the Alliance for Arts Education, the American College
Theater Festival, and Programs for Children and Youth.
These programs were supported in part by a generous
grant from the U.S. Department of Education and major
private support from the Kennedy Center Corporate
Fund, as well as individuals, foundations, and other cor-
porations. Each component works closely with Very Spe-
cial Arts, an educational affiliate of the Kennedy Center.

Programs for Children and Youth is the production
arm of the Education Program, providing more than 200
free performances and events to audiences of more than
60,000 at the Kennedy Center in 1986. Among these
were the Cultural Diversity Festival and Imagination Cel-
ebration, the national children’s arts festival.

Reflecting the Kennedy Center’s commitment to de-
velop new works for young people, Programs for Chil-
dren and Youth commissioned three new works in 1986:
A Good Life, The Sorcerer's Apprentice, and Dick Whit-
tington and His Cat. Programs for Children and Youth
also created a new Teen Acting Ensemble for advanced
students and its first Summer Drama Workshop, which
gave forty students between the ages of nine and nine-
teen three weeks of intensive professional theater train-
ing.

The Alliance for Arts Education is a national network
of fifty-three committees in the states and special juris-
dictions that develops and promotes the arts in the na-
tion’s educational systems. In 1986, seven arts educators
were awarded Kennedy Center Fellowships for Teachers
of the Arts, and a total of forty-five school principals
and superintendents were cited for fostering the arts in
their schools and school districts. Alliance for Arts Edu-
cation also coproduced, along with the White House
Commission on Presidential Scholars and the National
Foundation for Advancement in the Arts, the presenta-
tion and performance of twenty Presidential Scholars in
the Arts in the Concert Hall.

Nationwide, Alliance for Arts Education welcomed the
participation of approximately 300,000 young people,
families, and teachers at Imagination Celebration festi-
val’s twenty-five sites in thirteen states and the District of
Columbia. The number of new festivals doubled. Festi-
vals were held for the first time in Orange County, Cali-
fornia; Colorado Springs, Colorado; Syracuse, Bingham-
ton, and Buffalo, New York; and Portland, Maine.

For the eighteenth year, the American College Theater

Festival combined the efforts of theater educators and
theater professionals to provide a national showcase for
college theater. More than 13,000 students and 2,100
faculty members from nearly 500 schools participated in
1986. A record 587 college theater productions were en-
tered and adjudicated at local levels; more than sixty
were selected for twelve regional festivals. Six finalists—
four of them original scripts, the highest number to
date—were brought to Washington for the national festi-
val at the Kennedy Center. Audiences across the country
for all productions entered in the festival totaled more
than one million.

The American College Theater Festival also cospon-
sored numerous awards programs in playwriting, design,
criticism, acting, and theater administration. It cospon-
sored for the ninth year the Shenandoah Valley
Playwrights Retreat in Staunton, Virginia, and selected
nine college seniors for a career development symposium
that culminated in showcases for producers and casting
agents at the Kennedy Center in Washington and off-
Broadway.

All components of the Kennedy Center Education Pro-
gram are supported by an Educational Services division,
which uses the performing arts resources at the Kennedy
Center as the basis for workshops and other educational
formats and events for teachers, parents, and the general
public. In fiscal year 1986 more than 2,200 teachers and
more than 4,300 high school students were direct partici-
pants in these programs.

In fiscal year 1986 the Kennedy Center Education Pro-
gram gave the Frances Holleman Breathitt Award for
Excellence to Jim Henson in recognition of his contribu-
tions to the arts and to young people. The Education
Program also created the Jack Morrison Playwriting Fel-
lowship, which provided support for an additional writer
to attend the Shenandoah Valley Playwrights Retreat.

Specially Priced Ticket Program

Since it opened in September 1971, the Kennedy Center
has maintained a Specially Priced Ticket Program—the
largest such program in the nation—through which tick-
ets to Kennedy Center—produced and presented attrac-
tions are made available at half price to students, handi-
capped persons, senior citizens, low-income groups, and
military personnel in grades E-1 through E-4. The atten-
dant costs, in terms of reduced revenue potential and
administrative overhead, are borne by the Kennedy
Center.
During the twelve-month period ending September 30,
1986, combined half-price ticket sales, from Kennedy
Center and independent productions, totaled 70,858. The
sale of these tickets at full price would have resulted in a
total additional gross income of $1,010,751 to the Ken-
nedy Center and the independent producers.

Funding

Built at a cost of $77.8 million—$34 million contributed
by the private sector, $23.4 million appropriated by the
federal government as a matching grant, and $20.4 mil-
lion loaned by the federal government and now being
repaid—the Kennedy Center is unique in its operation as
both a performing arts center and a presidential memo-
rial. The National Park Service provides funding through
annual appropriations to maintain and secure the build-
ing as a presidential memorial; the performing arts oper-
ation is charged its prorata share of such costs totaling
more than $1 million annually. Meanwhile, the Kennedy
Center’s Board of Trustees is wholly responsible for the
cost of maintaining and improving the theaters, back-
stage, and office facilities.

Artistic programming at the Kennedy Center and its
day-to-day performing arts operations have been almost
entirely privately supported. The Kennedy Center also
raises private funds for its wide range of free or modestly
priced education and public service activities. Since the
Kennedy Center’s opening in 1971, foundations, corpora-
tions, and individuals have contributed more than
$43 million for these purposes. The nation’s business
community has played an important part in this effort
through the Corporate Fund established in 1977 by a
group of national corporate leaders. Under the leader-
ship of Corporate Fund Chairman James E. Burke,
chairman of Johnson & Johnson, the r986 Corporate
Fund contributed more than $2.3 million from nearly
300 corporations.

In recent years, less than 3 percent of the annual oper-
ating budget of the Kennedy Center has come from fed-
eral sources, and most of these funds have been received
from the U.S. Department of Education for the center’s
education programs.

In 1985 the Kennedy Center launched a campaign to
build a permanent endowment for the center to help
achieve the financial stability needed to sustain and in-
crease the quality and variety of programming. By Sep-
tember 1986 the center had raised more than $7 million
toward its $27 million goal. Included in this total is a

180

$z million challenge grant for endowment from the Na-
tional Endowment for the Arts; the center achieved the

three-to-one match with private contributions before the
year’s end.

Kennedy Center Honors

The Kennedy Center Honors were first awarded by the
board of trustees in 1978 to recognize the lifetime contri-
butions to the cultural life of our nation by its finest per-
forming artists. An annual event, the Honors Gala is the
Kennedy Center’s most important fund-raising benefit;
the 1985 Honors Gala evening raised more than $r mil-
lion in net proceeds to support programming. The 1985
honorees were Merce Cunningham, Irene Dunne, Bob
Hope, Alan Jay Lerner, Frederick Loewe, and Beverly
Sills. Preceding the Honors Gala was a reception at the
White House, hosted by President and Mrs. Ronald
Reagan.

Friends of the Kennedy Center

The Friends of the Kennedy Center is a nationwide orga-
nization that provides financial, administrative, volun-
teer, and community relations assistance. Founded in
1966 to raise grass-roots support among private citizens
for the building of a national cultural center, the Friends
organization, with more than 30,000 donor members
and 700 volunteers, continues to increase its programs
and activities.

Revenues from the Friends membership program, gift
shops, and fund-raising events help to support a number
of national and community projects. For the last two
years, the Friends sponsored Inside/Out, an all-day festi-
val of free performances and activities which drew more
than 50,000 people. Other public service programs finan-
cially supported by the Friends included the Specially
Priced Ticket Program, the American College Theater
Festival, the national Imagination Celebration perform-
ing arts festival for children, and free organ concerts.

The Friends volunteer force staffed the gift shops and
information center, provided special assistance to handi-
capped visitors, administered the SPT program, and con-
ducted free tours of the Kennedy Center for more than
200,000 people. Although the majority of Friends mem-
bers are drawn from the Washington area, there are
members in all fifty states.
National Gallery of Art

J. Carter Brown, Director

The National Gallery of Art, although formally estab-
lished as a bureau of the Smithsonian Institution, is an
autonomous and separately administered organization. It
is governed by its own board of trustees, the ex officio
members of which are the Chief Justice of the United
States, the Secretary of State, the Secretary of the Trea-
sury, and the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution. Of
the five general trustees, Franklin D. Murphy continued
to serve as chairman of the board, with John R. Steven-
son and Carlisle H. Humelsine as the gallery’s president
and vice-president, respectively. Also continuing on the
board were Ruth Carter Stevenson and Robert H. Smith.

During the year, the number of visitors increased by
80 percent over the previous year, for a total of
9,162,072. This extraordinary jump in attendance can be
attributed largely to four very popular exhibitions:

1) The Treasure Houses of Britain: Five Hundred Years
of Private Patronage and Art Collecting; 2) The New
Painting: Impressionism 1874-1886; 3) Winslow Homer
Watercolors; and 4) Impressionist to Early Modern
Paintings from the U.S.S.R.: Works from the Hermitage
Museum, Leningrad, and the Pushkin Museum of Fine
Arts, Moscow.

The Treasure Houses exhibition, the largest single tem-
porary exhibition ever held at the gallery, occupied most
of the East Building public space. Seventeen rooms were
constructed and decorated to evoke the ambiance of the
British country house over five centuries, from the
fifteenth-century Tudor Renaissance onwards. Most of
the 717 objects had never been on view outside the more
than 200 houses from which they were borrowed. In-
cluded in the exhibition were old master paintings,
sculpture and drawings, furniture, porcelain, tapestry,
jewelry, armor, silver, and other decorative arts. The
Prince and Princess of Wales were patrons of the exhibi-
tion and visited it soon after it opened to the public, as
did the President and Mrs. Reagan.

The New Painting: Impressionism 1874-1886, which
commemorated the centennial of the last of the eight
group exhibitions which were organized by the impres-
sionist painters, presented a scholarly reconstruction of a
cross section of the eight shows and included approxi-
mately 150 paintings by key figures of the group, as well
as outstanding examples by their less well-known con-
temporaries.

The exhibition of ninety-nine watercolors by Winslow
Homer celebrated the 1soth anniversary of the artist’s
birth. Selected from sixty public and private American
collections, the works demonstrate Homer’s skill and
versatility in the use of the watercolor technique.

The exhibition of forty-one Impressionist to Early
Modern Paintings from the U.S.S.R., the first major art
exchange to result from the cultural agreement signed at
the summit meeting in Geneva in November 198s, in-
cluded spectacular works which had been acquired by
two innovative Russian collectors, Ivan Morozoy and
Sergei Shchukin, before World War I and had never been
exhibited in the United States. In exchange, the gallery
sent forty nineteenth-century French paintings to Russia
to be shown at the Hermitage in Leningrad and at the
Pushkin Museum in Moscow.

Other exhibitions during the year included the “mu-
seum set” of photographs by American photographer
Ansel Adams who died in 1984. The artist’s widow, Vir-
ginia Adams, generously presented the gallery with her
personal museum set.

The first national retrospective exhibition of the highly
influential nineteenth-century American landscape
painter George Inness highlighted the artist’s develop-
ment over forty years. A selection of thirty-three baroque
paintings from the John and Mable Ringling Museum of
Art celebrated the museum’s fortieth anniversary of own-
ership by the state of Florida.

In honor of the generosity of Mr. and Mrs. Paul
Mellon, an exhibition of almost too of the many works
by American, British, and French artists given over the
years by Mr. and Mrs. Mellon included a number which
were part of their most recent gift in December and had
rarely, if ever, been seen at the gallery.

An exhibition of master drawings from the fifteenth to
the nineteenth centuries was lent by the Nationalmuseum
in Stockholm. One of the most important works in the
collection, a very rare fifteenth-century drawing by
Ghirlandaio, was included in the exhibition. An exhibi-
tion organized by the gallery and the Museum Boymans-
van Beuningen in Rotterdam brought to the gallery too
drawings by the seventeenth-century Dutch artist,
Jacques de Gheyn. A selection of seventy-five small
bronze sculptures from one of the world’s greatest collec-
tions of Italian and northern European bronzes of the
fifteenth to the mid-seventeenth centuries was lent by the
Kunsthistorisches Museum, Vienna.

Finally, the gallery was privileged to borrow a late
masterpiece by Titian, The Flaying of Marsyas, from the
State Museum of Kromeriz in Czechoslovakia. Its exhibi-
tion marked its first in America and only the second time
in three centuries that the painting had ever left Czecho-
slovakia.

The permanent collections were enriched by a number
of significant purchases, most important of which was

181
Rembrandt Peale’s Rubens Peale with a Geranium, one
of the great icons of American painting. It was especially
appropriate that it be the first purchase using income
from the gallery’s new art purchase endowment fund, the
Patrons’ Permanent Fund. The acquisition of a pair of
late works by the Bolognese painter, Guercino, Joseph
and Potiphar’s Wife and Amnon and Tamar, provided
needed reinforcement of the gallery’s collection of Ba-
roque painting. Other purchases included a 1946 painting
by Jean Dubuffet entitled La Dame au Pompon; an early
seventeenth-century Dutch landscape by Pieter Molijn,
the gallery’s first early realist landscape in the Dutch col-
lection; a fine reduced version in bronze of seventeenth-
century French sculptor Pierre Puget’s Milo of Crotona;
and two nineteenth-century sculptures, a marble relief,
La Pensee, by the French sculptor Henri-Michel-Antoine

Chapu, and a bronze figure group by Marius-Jean-Antonin

Mercie.

Purchases of drawings included a number of fine
eighteenth-century works. A large presentation drawing
by Piranesi is perhaps the most important drawing from
the height of his career in the 1760s and is the only
drawing known which the artist fully signed and dated.
Also among this group is a sheet of elegantly dressed
figures by Guardi.

Purchases of prints were highlighted by two unique
and rare works. Mantegna’s Entombment is the first
great print of Italian art. Also acquired was a unique
complete first-edition set of Piranesi’s Grotteschi.

Outstanding among the gifts received by the gallery
during the year was a group of paintings, sculptures, and
graphics given by Mr. and Mrs. Paul Mellon. Included
were twenty-seven nineteenth-century French paintings
among which were the gallery’s first Caillebotte, a
Morisot, a Bazille portrait, a Cezanne figure of a harle-
quin, a Degas, and a delicate Sisley seascape. Twentieth-
century paintings included a Derain View of the Thames,
two works by Matisse, a Feininger, a Vallotton, the gal-
lery’s first Magritte, and a 1912 cubist collage, The Cup
of Coffee, by Picasso. Five American paintings were in-
cluded: two by Homer, two by Eakins, and one by Pren-
dergast. A remarkable group of small sculpture studies
by Degas—seventeen wax studies of dancers and other
figures, five bronze statuettes, and a plaster figure of a

James Heard as Edgar Degas is shown during his performance
“Meet the Artist” held twice weekly during March and April 1986
at the National Gallery of Art.

young dressed ballet dancer—was also given by Mr. and
Mrs. Mellon. Among the graphics in the gift are water-
colors, drawings, and pastels by Cezanne, Degas, van
Gogh, Manet, Matisse, Picasso, Pissarro, and Vuillard,
and prints by Degas, Toulouse-Lautrec, and Vuillon.

Among the other gifts this year were a drawing by
Sebastiano del Piombo, Prophet Addressed by an Angel,
and a sculptured portrait of the Baron Cromot Dubourg
by J. B. Lemoyne II. The gallery also received the last
triptych by Max Beckmann in private hands, The Argo-
nauts (1950), and two other works, Falling Man and
Christ in Limbo. Other twentieth-century works
acquired were a large acrylic by Sam Francis entitled
White Line and a colorful bronze sculpture by Nancy
Graves entitled Spinner.

A gift of 221 prints by contemporary artists published
at Gemini G.E.L. in Los Angeles from the mid—1960s
through the late 1970s doubled the size of the gallery’s
growing Gemini Archive and included strong groups of
works by Rauschenberg, Stella, and Kelly. A second ma-
jor archive of contemporary prints was established with
a gift of all the works published to date by Graphic-
studio in Tampa, by such contemporary artists as Raus-
chenberg, Rosenquist, Dine, Pearlstein, Richard Smith,
and Close. One of the icons of twentieth-century print-
making, Ernst Kirchner’s Five Tarts, was also given.

Extension Program audience reports indicate that in
fiscal year 1986, 170,513,085 persons viewed Extension
programs—exceeding by more than 35 percent the previ-
ous year’s record-breaking audience level. This figure
reflects the department’s promotion of program material
to a large number of educational and cultural organiza-
tions and to public television facilities—either directly or
through the Affiliate Loan System. During the year, this
system added almost 100 agencies which serve as subsid-
iary distributors of the programs. Another reason for the
increase was the doubled use of videocassette titles the
department began to offer last year.

The film John James Audubon: The Birds of America,
produced by the department in 1985, won a CINE
Golden Eagle Award and was selected for worldwide
satellite transmission via the U.S. Intelligence Agency’s
WORLDNET telecommunications system.

As part of the Education Department’s program to
enrich the young visitor’s enjoyment and understanding
of the temporary exhibitions, British educator and artist
James Heard appeared during the Impressionism exhibi-
tion as the artist Edgar Degas, inviting both school
classes and families to his “studio” in the West Building
auditorium to help him paint a picture of Miss Lala, the

183
famous star of the Cirque Fernando, the subject of the
original picture hanging in the exhibition.

Among the guest scholars who lectured during the
year, John Szarkowski, director of the department of
photography at the Museum of Modern Art, gave the
keynote lecture for the Ansel Adams exhibition, Per Bjur-
strom, director of the Nationalmuseum, Stockholm,
spoke during the exhibition of drawings from that mu-
seum; and Helen Cooper, curator of American art at the
Yale University Art Gallery, lectured on Winslow Ho-
mer’s watercolors. Some of the lecturers during the Trea-
sure Houses exhibition were the guest curator of the ex-
hibition, Gervase Jackson-Stops; Sir Francis Watson,
decorative arts historian; Martin Drury, Historic Build-
ings secretary for The National Trust, London, who
spoke on “The Survival of the British Country House;”
John Harris, director of the Royal Institute of British
Architects who gave a lecture entitled “And They All
Came Tumbling Down: The Demolition of the Great
Country Houses in Britain, 1870-1970;” and Lord John
Julius Norwich who spoke on “The Palladian Country
House in England.” The A. W. Mellon Lectures in the
Fine Arts were given by composer Lukas Foss who gave
six talks with piano accompaniment entitled “Confes-
sions of a Twentieth-Century Composer.” Among the
other speakers during the year were architectural histo-
rian Mark Girouard; George Heard Hamilton, director
emeritus, Sterling and Francine Clark Art Institute, Wil-
liamstown, Massachusetts; and Terisio Pignatti, professor
of art history at the University of Venice.

The Archives Department, which was established in
1984 in anticipation of the gallery’s fiftieth anniversary in
1991, received from I. M. Pei and Partners, the architects
of the East Building, the records of the building’s design
and construction, including drawings, photographs,
slides, and studies, providing rich documentation of the
development of the building. The stone construction
consultant on the project also donated two cubic feet of
records relating to the stonework at the East Building
job site.

Temporary Exhibitions

Master Drawings from Titian to Picasso: The Curtis O.
Baer Collection

continued from the previous fiscal year to 6 October
1985 coordinated by The High Museum of Art, Atlanta,
and Andrew Robison

184

Figure Drawings from the Collection

continued from the previous fiscal year to 19 October
1986

German Expressionist Prints from the Ruth and Jacob
Kainen Collection

continued from the previous fiscal year to 9 February
1986 coordinated by Andrew Robison

Figure Prints from the Collection

continued from the previous fiscal year to 19 February
1986

Ansel Adams: Classic Images

6 October 1985 to 26 January 1986

coordinated by James Alinder and Nicolai Cikovsky, Jr.,
and supported by the Pacific Telesis Group

Durer to Delacroix: Great Master Drawings From
Stockholm

27 October 1985 to 5 January 1986 coordinated by Per
Bjurstrom, Nationalmuseum, Stockholm, and Andrew
Robison and supported by Volvo North America Corpo-
ration and the Federal Council on the Arts and Humani-
ties

The Treasure Houses of Britain: 500 Years of Private
Patronage and Art Collecting

3 November 1985 to 13 April 1986 coordinated by
Gervase Jackson-Stops, the British Council, and D.
Dodge Thompson and supported by the Ford Motor
Company, indemnities from Her Majesty’s Treasury and
the Federal Council on the Arts and Humanities, and
British Airways

The New Painting: Impressionism 1874-1886

17 January to 6 April 1986 coordinated by Charles S.
Moffett, The Fine Arts Museums of San Francisco, and
Charles F. Stuckey and supported by AT&T and the Fed-
eral Council on the Arts and Humanities

Titian: The Flaying of Marsyas

17 January to 20 April 1986 coordinated by Sydney J.
Freedberg and supported by the Federal Council on the
Arts and Humanities

Winslow Homer Watercolors

2 March to 1r May 1986 coordinated by Helen A. Coo-
per, Yale University Art Gallery, and Nicolai Cikovsky,
Jr., and supported by the IBM Corporation

Drawings by Jacques de Gheyn
9 March to 11 May 1986 coordinated by A.W.F.M. Mei)
and J.A. Poot, Museum Boymans-van Beuningen, and
Andrew Robison, and supported by the Federal Council
on the Arts and Humanities

Baroque Masterpieces from the John and Mable Ringling
Museum of Art

6 April to 29 September 1986 coordinated by Anthony
Janson, The John and Mable Ringling Museum of Art,
and Beverly Louise Brown

Impressionist to Early Modern Paintings from the
U.S.S.R.: Works from the Hermitage Museum, Lenin-
grad and the Pushkin Museum of Fine Arts, Moscow

1 May to 15 June 1986 coordinated by D. Dodge Thom-
pson and supported by Occidental Petroleum Corpora-
tion, the Armand Hammer Foundation, and the Federal
Council on the Arts and Humanities

George Inness

22 June to 7 September 1986 coordinated by Michael
Quick, Los Angeles County Museum of Art, and Nicolai
Cikovsky, Jr.

Gifts to the Nation: Selected Acquisitions from the Col-
* lections of Mr. and Mrs. Paul Mellon
~~ 20 July to 7 September 1986 coordinated by Charles F.
Stuckey

Renaissance Master Bronzes from the Kunsthistorisches
Museum, Vienna

17 August to 30 November 1986 coordinated by Manfred
Leithe-Jasper, Kunsthistorisches Museum; Donald
McClelland, the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhi-
bition Service; and Douglas Lewis; and supported by
Republic National Bank of New York and Banco Safra,
S.A., Brazil

Reading Is Fundamental, Inc.

Mrs. Elliot Richardson, Chairman
Ruth Graves, President

Reading Is Fundamental, Inc. (RIF) was formed in 1966
to ensure that America’s children grow up reading. To-
day, thanks to the efforts of some 100,000 volunteers,
the program reaches more than 2.1 million children in all
fifty states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the
Virgin Islands, and Guam. RIF goes wherever children
are—schools, libraries, housing projects, Indian reserva-
tions, migrant worker camps, hospitals, centers for the
handicapped, and juvenile detention centers. Operating
through a grass-roots network of some 3,150 projects
and more than 10,000 sites, the program has brought
more than 75,000,000 books into America’s homes over
the last twenty years.

Educators say that it is the child’s attitude that turns
the child into a lifelong reader. The late Mrs. Robert
McNamara, RIF’s founder, intuitively recognized this; to
get youngsters interested in reading, she made books
available to them free of charge and then gave them the
chance to choose and keep the books they liked best.

This approach, combined with creative activities de-
signed to arouse children’s interest in reading, has proved
remarkably successful. From around the country RIF
volunteers report the following results with striking con-
sistency: positive changes in children’s reading habits;
children checking out more books from school and pub-
lic libraries; widespread parent involvement in children’s
education and increased community support for reading;
and increased reading achievement.

Recent studies affirm the soundness of RIF’s approach.
Becoming a Nation of Readers, a National Institute of
Education report on reading, and What Works, a U.S.
Department of Education report on effective approaches
to teaching and learning, both verify methods that are
central to RIF’s approach. Further support comes from
Investing in Our Children (produced by the Committee
for Economic Development), The Reading Report Card
(produced by the National Assessment of Educational
Progress), and Books in Our Future (from the Librarian
of Congress).

Support from both the public and private sectors has
made it possible for RIF to grow from a small pilot pro-
gram into the nation’s largest reading motivation pro-
gram. Since the Ford Foundation gave RIF its start
twenty years ago, America’s private sector has been gen-
erous to RIF. Today more than 6,000 businesses and or-
ganizations support RIF locally, and some 350 book-
sellers and publishers offer RIF projects substantial
discounts on books and special services. Over the last
fifteen years, the broadcast and print media have given

185
more than $45 million in free air time and space to RIF’s
campaign to promote reading.

In 1976 Congress created the Inexpensive Book Distri-
bution Program, modeling it on RIF. Reading Is Funda-
mental continues to operate this program under a grant
from the Department of Education. The program allows
RIF to match local funds for the purchase of books.

Highlights of 1986

Nineteen eighty-six was a yearlong celebration of RIF’s
twenty years as a literacy program. To mark the begin-
ning of this anniversary, the Manhattan Reading Council
of the International Reading Association presented RIF
President Ruth Graves with the council’s Literacy Award
in recognition of RIF’s success in motivating children to
read.

Warner Brothers invited RIF to be the beneficiary of
the world premiere on December 16, 1985, of The Color
Purple, the film based on the Pulitzer prize-winning
novel by Alice Walker. During the reception at Cinema I,
RIF board chairman Mrs. Elliot Richardson greeted
more than 700 guests, including producer-director Steven
Spielberg and the film’s stars. Arthur Ashe, a member of
RIF’s Advisory Council, was chairman of the benefit;
and Mrs. George Bush, a member of the RIF board of
directors, served as honorary chairman. Cochairmen
were Mrs. Bryant Gumbel and Mrs. Ruth Sulzberger
Holmberg, a RIF board member.

A grant from Hallmark Cards, Inc., enabled RIF to
conduct a twentieth anniversary poster contest in which
350,000 young people participated. Seven-year-old Cindy
Bergman of Stamford, Connecticut, won the contest with
a picture of her mother reading in the bathtub. “She’s
comfortable there,” said Cindy. Winning posters from
each state were exhibited alongside Cindy’s at the Ameri-
can Booksellers Association convention in New Orleans,
at the Miami Youth Museum, and in Washington, D.C.

Once again, young people from across the country
took part in the popular RIF program In Celebration of
Reading, a campaign to promote reading in the home
sponsored for the second consecutive year by the Na-
tional Home Library Foundation. The names of local
RIF readers were entered in a national drawing on April
2 at the Smithsonian; Mrs. Bush drew the name of
Christopher Andrews, 6, of Council Bluffs, Iowa, as the
1986 RIF Reader of the Year.

186

Both Chris and Cindy, their families, and the coordi-
nators of their RIF projects were brought to Washington,
D.C., to participate in Reading Is Fun Week activities.
The two youngsters also appeared on NBC’s Today show
with Mrs. Bush.

To mark RIF’s twentieth anniversary, the Young Read-
ers Division of the Putnam Publishing Group published
the book Once Upon a Time: Celebrating the Magic of
Children’s Books in Honor of the Twentieth Anniversary
of Reading Is Fundamental. All profits from its sale have
been donated to RIF by Putnam, and thirty-two of the
nation’s most distinguished writers and artists in the field
of children’s literature donated stories, poems, and art-
work.

Clowns, circus dancers, unicyclists, an elephant named
Targa, and a bear called Peggy were all on hand to wel-
come some 300 young people from RIF projects in the
New York area on April 18 at the Lincoln Center Library
for the Performing Arts in New York City. The occasion
was the launching of a unique program called “Ringling
Readers,” a collaboration between RIF and Ringling
Bros. and Barnum & Bailey Circus to promote reading.
This program was also presented to RIF youngsters at-
tending RIF’s twentieth anniversary celebration on the
Mall and to RIF projects in more than eighty cities along
the circus route.

To commemorate Reading Is Fun Week (April 20-26),
Congress passed a joint resolution, introduced by Sena-
tor Mark Hatfield (R-Oregon) and Representative Silvio
Conte (R—Massachusetts), affirming that “National
Reading Is Fun Week has been and will continue to be a
nationwide literacy effort encouraging millions of young
people to read.” Thirty-three senators and 226 represen-
tatives cosponsored the resolution.

Across the nation, RIF projects celebrated Reading Is
Fun Week with read-ins, young authors’ days, story-
telling jamborees, book fairs, and hundreds of other
reading-related events. To honor RIF’s founder, local
projects presented individuals or groups who had made
outstanding contributions to the literacy cause with
Margaret McNamara Certificates of Merit.

A celebration of Reading Is Fun Week on the Mall
rounded off these nationwide activities. Under a yellow
tent, a joyous mix of clowns, mimes, bluegrass musi-
cians, and Washington, D.C., area young people gath-
ered for a ceremony honoring the winner of RIF’s poster
competition and the National RIF Reader. Education
Secretary William J. Bennett and Mrs. George Bush were
among the speakers at the ceremony. Afterwards, young-
sters were treated to a “Reading Is Three Rings of Fun”
program by Ringling Bros. and Barnum & Bailey clowns
and to dramatizations of storybooks by the Library The-
atre Group. Then children lined up to choose RIF books
and, despite a heavy downpour, ran out into the Na-
tional Mall to launch balloons with messages attached.

During the American Booksellers Association (ABA)
annual May convention, held last year in New Orleans,
Reading Is Fundamental was honored with the presti-
gious Irita van Doren Award, which recognized “RIF’s
contributions to the cause of the book as an instrument
of culture in American life.” The trade show was also the
occasion for an announcement of the Give the Gift of
Literacy campaign. RIF was designated by campaign
sponsors (the ABA and the National Association of Col-
lege Stores, among others) as one of two beneficiaries of
money raised during the first year of this three-year
fund-raising drive for literacy programs.

A highlight of the convention was a parade staged by
RIF and underwritten by B. Dalton Bookseller. A Creole
band led a parade of floats designed to resemble giant
storybooks that transported hundreds of books, all do-
nated by ABA booksellers, to the children of Kingsley
Community Center, site of a RIF project.

Mrs. Graves also conducted a training workshop for
conventioneers, called “Literacy Promotion at the Local
Level,” in which she detailed ways local bookstores and
institutions can encourage children to read.

Sports and reading went hand in hand when Wald-
enbooks, for the second year in a row, sponsored the
Charity Golf and Tennis Tournament for the benefit of
RIF. More than a hundred members of the book commu-
nity participated in the tournament, which was held in
September at the Sleepy Hollow Country Club in
Scarborough-on-Hudson, New York.

Thousands of parents are learning how to motivate
their children to read through the RIF program. This
year, through generous grants from the private sector,
RIF was able to present twelve “Growing Up Reading”
parent workshops (sponsored by the General Electric
Foundation and Beatrice Companies, Inc.) and to pub-
lish four brochures with practical tips on how to encour-
age reading in the home produced through grants from
Snuggle Fabric Softener (a Lever Brothers product) and
Beatrice Companies.

Woodrow Wilson International
Center for Scholars

James H. Billington, Director

The Wilson Center is one of three institutions—with the
Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts and the Na-
tional Gallery of Art—that operates with mixed trust/
public funding created by the Congress within the
Smithsonian Institution, fulfilling a national mission un-
der a board appointed by the President of the United
States. The Wilson Center is an active workshop and
switchboard for scholarship at the highest levels. Since
its Opening sixteen years ago, it has gained widespread
recognition for the work of its fellows in mining the
scholarly riches of Washington, for its many meetings
that bring together the world of affairs and the world of
ideas, and for its democratic openness to all comers
through its annual fellowship competition.

Each year, some fifty fellows are brought in through
open international competition involving ever-increasing
numbers of applicants from a wide range of back-
grounds, disciplines, cultures, and nations. A broad
spectrum of ideas is, in turn, shared with a nonspecial-
ized national audience through The Wilson Quarterly,
which has more subscribers than any other scholarly
quarterly journal in the English-speaking world.

The Wilson Center seeks to render a service to the
world and to the Washington, D.C., community by
throwing open its core fellowship program to all inter-
ested individuals. Fellows are selected for the promise,
importance, and appropriateness of their projects on the
recommendation of broadly based academic panels out-
side the center. The fellows come for limited periods of
study in the broadly inclusive program on History, Cul-
ture, and Society, as well as in special programs for re-
search on the Soviet Union (the Kennan Institute for Ad-
vanced Russian Studies), Latin America, international
security, Asia, American society and politics, Eastern Eu-
rope, and Western Europe. Each program is directed by
a scholar on the staff.

In keeping with its mandate to symbolize and
strengthen the fruitful relations between the worlds of
learning and public affairs, the center sponsors confer-
ences and seminars on topics of special current interest
to both worlds. In 1986 it brought together scholars
from diverse disciplines, members of Congress, represen-
tatives of the executive branch, businessmen, journalists,
military experts, writers, politicians, educators, and dip-
lomats to consider a variety of issues, examine current
questions, celebrate major events, and participate in
evaluative discussions.

Increasingly, people from different regions of the
United States meet and interact with foreign scholars and
members of Washington’s growing intellectual commu-
nity.

Throughout the year, the Wilson Center held more
than 200 meetings, including major conferences on vital
topics of both national and international interest. In Sep-
tember, a two-day conference was held on “The History
of Soviet-American Relations” with such distinguished
participants as Arthur M. Schlesinger, Jr., Center for
Strategic and International Studies at Georgetown Uni-
versity; Robert C. Tucker, political science professor at
Princeton; Robert R. Bowie, Harvard professor of inter-
national relations; Walter Stoessel, former ambassador of
the United States to the U.S.S.R.; William Hyland, edi-
tor, Foreign Affairs; Seweryn Bialer, director, Research
Institute on International Change, Columbia University;
and leading scholars from the Soviet Academy of Sci-
ences.

Another conference/ workshop in May on “Environ-
mental Problems and Policies in Eastern Europe”
brought such experts as Gardner Brown, chairman, De-
partment of Economics, University of Washington; Lyn-
ton Caldwell, Department of Political Science, Indiana
University; Gyorgy Enyedi, Hungarian Academy of Sci-
ences; Eugenio Lari, director of Country Programs De-
partment, the World Bank; David McNelis, director, En-
vironmental Research Center, University of Nevada;
Helmut Schreiber, International Institute for Environ-
mental and Society Studies, Berlin; Glen Schweitzer, Na-
tional Research Council; Boris Frlec, vice president of
Slovenia, professor of chemistry, University of Ljubljana;
and former Wilson Center fellows John W. Futrell, presi-
dent, Environmental Law Institute; and Philip Lowe,
Bartlett School of Architecture and Planning, London.

Contemporary Burma studies were examined in their
“International Perspective” at a unique conference on the
subject held by the Wilson Center’s Asia Program at the
Wye Plantation in Maryland. Representatives of the field
who joined in the conference were Anna J. Allot, Univer-
sity of London’s School of Oriental and African Studies;
Michael Aung-Thwin, Center for Southeast Asian Stud-
ies, Kyoto University; Denise Bernot, Antony, France;
Annemarie Esche, German Democratic Republic;
Thomas Gibson, senior economist at the World Bank;
Pico Tyer, Time magazine; Ryuji Okudaira, Tokyo Uni-
versity of Foreign Studies; Joseph Silverstein, professor
of political science, Rutgers University; and Than Tun,
Tokyo University of Foreign Studies.

A major conference held in September 1986 on “The
Overall History of Soviet-American Relations” covered

188

A few days before the July 1986 celebration of the Statue of Lib-
erty, the Wilson Center brought together both French and Ameri-
can scholars in a discussion of the 200-year evolution of the con-
cept of liberty. Among those participating in the conference were
(left to right): Wilson Center Director James H. Billington; Fran-
cois Bourricaud, professor of sociology, Université de Paris IV;
and Donald R. Kelly, professor of history, University of
Rochester.

the period since 1933 in sessions entitled: “The Back-
ground to Wartime Cooperation 1933-41,” “The Extent
and Limits of Wartime Cooperation 1941-45,” “Postwar
Difficulties 1945-55,” “New Approaches 1955-65,” “The
Rise of Detente 1965-75,” “New Problems and Possibili-
ties 1957-86,” and “Overall Lessons for the Future.”
These sessions included such speakers as Raymond
Garthoff, Brookings Institution senior fellow; Adam
Ulam, director of the Harvard Russian Research Center;
Viktor L. Malkov, Institute of World History, U.S.S.R.
Academy of Sciences; Vladimir O. Pechatnov, U.S.S.R.
Academy of Sciences; Vladimir A. Stepanov, Department
of Foreign Relations, presidium; Richard Clark, Aspen
Institute director; Edward Rowny, special representative
for negotiations, Arms Control and Disarmament
Agency; Sonya Sluzar, Problems of Communism; Tom
Foley, U.S. representative from Washington; Thomas
Downey, George Miller, Sid Morrison, and former
Wilson Center fellow Thomas Petri, U.S. representatives
from New York, California, Washington, and Wisconsin,
respectively.

Of special interest were two evening discussions on
broad contemporary religious topics. In December 1985,
George S. Wiegel, former Center fellow and president of
the James Madison Foundation, and John Cardinal
O’Connor, Catholic Archbishop of New York, presented
“War, Peace and the Catholic Moral Imagination: The
American Moment.” Among the participants in the dis-
cussion, which was moderated by Wilson Center Direc-
tor James H. Billington, were John Agresto, acting chair-
man of the National Endowment for the Humanities;
Robert H. Bork, U.S. circuit judge, U.S. Court of Ap-
peals, D.C. Circuit; William Byron, S.J., president,
Catholic University of America; Edward Doherty, U.S.
Catholic Conference; Alan Geyer, the Churches Center
for Theology and Public Policy; J. Bryan Hehir, U.S.
Catholic Conference; Menahem Milson, Wilson Center
fellow and professor of Arabic literature, Hebrew Uni-
versity of Jerusalem; Daniel P. Moynihan, U.S. Senator
from New York; John Noonan, former Wilson Center
fellow and professor of law, University of California,
Berkeley; Michael Novak, American Enterprise Institute;
Robert Pickus, president, World Without War Council;
Eugene Rostow, National Defense University; Paul
Sigmund, Wilson Center fellow and professor of politics
at Princeton University; and Ashley Tellis, Woodstock
Theological Center.

On another occasion in March 1986, a discussion took
place on “Religion and Modern American Intellectual
History.” Speakers were Henry May; Margaret Byrne
professor of history, University of California, Berkeley;
and David Tracy, professor of theology at the University
of Chicago Divinity School. Participants included Bill
Bradley, U.S. Senator from New Jersey; James Childress,
former fellow and Kyle Professor of Religious Studies at
the University of Virginia; James L. Connor, rector of
Holy Trinity Church, Washington D.C.; Ronald P. Dore,
Technical Change Center, London and Center fellow;
Thomas M. Gannon, S.J., director of the Woodstock
Theological Center, Georgetown University; John
Higham, professor of history at Johns Hopkins Univer-
sity and former fellow; William R. Hutchinson; Charles
Warren, professor of the history of religion in America at
Harvard University; Mark Juergensmeyer, associate pro-
fessor of ethics and the phenomenology of religions, Uni-
versity of California, Berkeley; Nancy Kassebaum, U.S.
Senator from Kansas; Nicholas Lash, fellow at the
Wilson Center and Norris-Hulse professor of divinity,
University of Cambridge, U.K.; Thomas Petri, U.S.
Congressman from Wisconsin; Stephen Rosenfeld, The
Washington Post; Ehud Sprinzak, Wilson Center fellow
and senior lecturer in political science, Hebrew Univer-
sity of Jerusalem; and Ken Woodward, religion editor of
Newsweek.

Many other meetings on a wide variety of subjects in-
cluded “The Psychological Dimension of Political Leader-

ship,’ a discussion by Nigel Forman, member of Parlia-
ment, U.K. An evening dialogue was held in June on
“American Indians: Ancient Values in a Modern Con-
text” in which Scott Momaday, University of Arizona;
Clara Sue Kidwell, University of California, Berkeley;
Ben Whitehorse Campbell, member of the Colorado
State Senate; and A. David Lester, executive director of
the Council of Energy Resource Tribes participated. A
dinner-discussion on “Government and Social Science”
had two keynote speakers: Daniel P. Moynihan, U.S.
Senator from New York, and Edward Shils, professor of
sociology and social thought at the University of Chi-
cago. An afternoon colloquium on “The Quest for His-
torical Identity in Turkey” featured Bozkurt Gtivenc, pro-
fessor of anthropology at Haceteppe University, Ankara.
“The Civil Rights Revolution” was discussed by Kenneth
B. Clark, president of Clark, Phipps, Clark & Harris,
Inc. and Wilson Center Board of Trustees member.
Waldo Huntley Heinrichs, professor of history at Temple
University and Center fellow, spoke on “Roosevelt and
the American Entry into World War II’ with Arthur M.
Schlesinger, Jr., professor of humanities at City Univer-
sity of New York commenting. A seminar on “Gor-
bachev’s Revolutionary Changes” was led by Ernst Kux,
foreign editor of Neue Ziircher Zeitung and guest
scholar at the Wilson Center. Bertrand Goldshmidt,
former head of the Chemistry and International Rela-
tions Division of the French Atomic Energy Commission,
spoke on “The Origins of the French Nuclear Weapons
Programs.”

The Wilson Center’s fellows continued to come from
countries all over the world, from many disciplines, and
from many areas of the United States. Among its 1986
fellows were Nicholas Lash, Norris-Hulse professor of
divinity, University of Cambridge, U.K.; Kwasi Wiredu,
former professor of philosophy at the University of
Ghana; Judith A. Thornton, professor of economics,
University of Washington, Seattle; Clyde Prestowitz,
counselor to the U.S. Secretary of Commerce; Koentja-
raningrat, professor of anthropology, University of Indo-
nesia, Jakarta; and Svetozar Stojanovic, professor of so-
cial science, University of Belgrade, Yugoslavia.

The collegial atmosphere at the Wilson Center pro-
vides an opportunity for learning and the exchanging of
ideas—permitting this broad and heterogeneous mix of
fellows to engage in an intellectual life much greater than
the sum of its parts. The Wilson Center transcends all
national and academic boundaries in serving its char-
tered purpose to bring together ideas and experience on
a global scale.

189
SMITHSONIAN

Woodrow Wilson
International Center

|
| John F. Kennedy Center | a
| for the Performing Arts | SECRETARIAT * THE SECRETARY
| Office of ——————— UNDER SECRETARY*
| National Gallery of Art | Sapte NTE
| | INVESTIGATIONS
| |

TREASURER* GENERAL COUNSEL*

Business Management Office
Concessions
Mail Order Division
Office of Product Licensing
Smithsonian Museum Shops

Office of Accounting and
Financial Services

Office of Financial Management
and Planning

Office of Risk Management

Assistant Secretary for Assistant Secretary for
RESEARCH* MUSEUMS*

Joseph Henry Papers Anacostia Neighborhood Museum
National Zoological Park Archives of American Art

Office of American Studies Arthur M. Sackler Gallery and
Office of Fellowships and Grants Freer Gallery of Art

Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory Conservation Analytical Laboratory
Smithsonian Environmental Research Center Cooper-Hewitt Museum
Smithsonian Institution Archives Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden
Smithsonian Institution Libraries National Air and Space Museum
Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute National Museum Act

National Museum of African Art

National Museum of American Art
Renwick Gallery

National Museum of American History

National Museum of Natural History

National Portrait Gallery

Office of Exhibits Central

Office of Horticulture

Office of Museum Programs

Office of the Registrar

Smithsonian Institution Traveling
Exhibition Service

*Secretary’s Management Committee

190
INSTITUTION

Archives of American Art
Board of Trustees

Arthur M. Sackler Gallery
Visiting Committee

Board of Fellowships and Grants

Cooper-Hewitt Museum
Advisory Council

Folklife Advisory Council

Freer Visiting Committee
Hirshhorn Museum and
Sculpture Garden

Board of Trustees

Horticultural Advisory Committee

Directorate of
INTERNATIONAL ACTIVITIES*

International Center

Office of Publications Exchange
Office of Service and Protocol

Assistant Secretary for
PUBLIC SERVICE*

National Science Resources Center

Office of the Committee for a Wider Audience
Office of Elementary and Secondary Education

Office of Folklife Programs
Office of Public Affairs

Office of Smithsonian Symposia and Seminars

Office of Telecommunications

Smithsonian Institution Press

Smithsonian Magazine

Visitor Information and Associates’
Reception Center

December 1986

BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS

Joint Sponsoring Committee for
the Papers of Joseph Henry

National Air and Space Museum
Advisory Board

National Armed Forces
Museum Advisory Board

National Board of the
Smithsonian Associates

National Museum Act
Advisory Council

National Museum of African Art
Commission

National Museum of American Art

Commission

Director of

National Portrait Gallery
Commission

Office of Museum Programs
National Advisory Committee

Smithsonian Council

Smithsonian Institution
Women’s Council

Smithsonian Institution
Internship Council

Women’s Committee of the
Smithsonian Associates

MEMBERSHIP AND DEVELOPMENT *

Office of Membership and Development
Smithsonian National Associate Program
Smithsonian Resident Associate Program

Assistant Secretary for
ADMINISTRATION*

Office of Congressional Liaison

Contracts Office
Management Analysis Office

Office of Equal Opportunity
Office of Facilities Services

Office of Architectural History

and Historic Preservation
Office of Design and Construction
Office of Plant Services
Office of Protection Services
Office of Safety Programs
Office of Information Resource Management
Office of Personnel Administration
Office of Printing and Photographic Services
Office of Programming and Budget
Office of Special Events
Office of Supply Services
Travel Services Office

191
Cover: Morning sun highlights the rich colors and the pictur-
esque towers, turrets, and spires of the Arts and Industries
Building, and the Castle beyond. This lofty view facing the
west was photographed by Charles H. Phillips.

Frontispiece: This statue of Joseph Henry, first Secretary of the
Smithsonian, faces the National Mall.

For sale by the Superintendent of Documents,

U.S. Government Printing Office, Washington, D.C. 20402
(paper cover)

Stock number: 047-000-00404-7

192
Smithsonian Year 1987

ourenenTED IEINT OF HoCUMENTS
ePCSirOry

| MAY 18 1988

SOSTON PUBLIC LIBRARY
OVER. Wagull Docu Hei Deh DEP nITite hs ENT

Smithsonian Year 1987

Annual Report of the Smithsonian Institution for the Year Ended September 30, 1987

Smithsonian Institution Press, Washington D.C., 1988
Ganesha, a temple sculpture from Halebid (Mysore) in South India, thirteenth century.
Arthur M. Sackler Collection. (Photograph by Kim Nielson)
Contents

Smithsonian Institution 7 Office of Telecommunications 158

Statement by the Secretary 9 Smithsonian Institution Press 159

Report of the Board of Regents 28 Smithsonian Magazine 161

Benefactors 29 “Smithsonian World” 162

Financial Report 36 Visitor Information and Associates’ Reception Center 162
Research 65 Administration 165

Joseph Henry Papers 66 Administrative and Support Activities 166

National Zoological Park 66 Smithsonian Institution Women’s Council 169

Office of American Studies 75 Smithsonian Internship Council 170

Office of Fellowships and Grants 75
Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory 78
Smithsonian Environmental Research Center 83
Smithsonian Institution Archives 87
Smithsonian Institution Libraries 90
Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute 93

Directorate of International Activities 171

Membership and Development 175
Office of Membership and Development 176
James Smithson Society 177
National Board of the Smithsonian Associates 178
Smithsonian National Associate Program 179
Smithsonian Resident Associate Program 182
Women’s Committee of the Smithsonian Associates 185

Museums ror
Anacostia Museum 102
Archives of American Art 103
Arthur M. Sackler Gallery and Freer Gallery of Art 105
Conservation Analytical Laboratory 108
Cooper-Hewitt Museum 110
Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden 112
National Air and Space Museum 115
National Museum of African Art 122
National Museum of American Art 124
National Museum of American History 127
National Museum of Natural History/National Museum

Under Separate Boards of Trustees 187
John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts 188
National Gallery of Art 194
Reading is Fundamental, Inc. 199
Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars 201

of Man 133
National Portrait Gallery 140 awl
Office of Exhibits Central 143 Organization Chart 204

Office of Horticulture 144

Office of Museum Programs 145

Office of the Registrar 146

Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service 146

Public Service 149
National Demonstration Laboratory for Interactive
Educational Technologies 150
National Science Resources Center 151
Office of the Committee for a Wider Audience 152
Office of Elementary and Secondary Education 153
Office of Folklife Programs 154
Office of Interdisciplinary Studies 156
Office of Public Affairs 157
Smithsonian Year 1987 Supplement, containing the
Chronology and Appendixes 1-10, is published in a
microfiche edition. Please address requests for copies to
Alan Burchell, Production Coordinator,

Smithsonian Institution Press,

955 L’Enfant Plaza, Suite 2100,

Washington, D.C. 20560/202-287-3738.
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

The Smithsonian Institution was created by act of Con-
gress in 1846 in accordance with the terms of the will of
James Smithson of England, who in 1826 bequeathed his
property to the United States of America “to found at
Washington, under the name of the Smithsonian Institu-
tion, an establishment for the increase and diffusion of
knowledge among men.” After receiving the property and
accepting the trust, Congress incorporated the Institution
in an “establishment,” whose statutory members are the
President, the Vice President, the Chief Justice, and the
heads of the executive departments, and vested responsi-
bility for administering the trust in the Smithsonian
Board of Regents.

The Establishment
September 30, 1987

Ronald W. Reagan, President of the United States

George H. W. Bush, Vice President of the United States

William H. Rehnquist, Chief Justice of the United States

George P. Shultz, Secretary of State

James A. Baker III, Secretary of the Treasury

Caspar W. Weinberger, Secretary of Defense

Edwin Meese III, Attorney General

Donald P. Hodel, Secretary of the Interior

Richard E. Lyng, Secretary of Agriculture

S. Bruce Smart, Jr., Acting Secretary of Commerce

William E. Brock, Secretary of Labor

Otis R. Bowen, Secretary of Health and Human Services

Samuel R. Pierce, Jr., Secretary of Housing and Urban
Development

Elizabeth H. Dole, Secretary of Transportation

William J. Bennett, Secretary of Education

John S. Herrington, Secretary of Energy
Board of Regents and
Secretary
September 30, 1987

Board of Regents

William H. Rehnquist, Chief Justice of the United States,
ex officio

George H. W. Bush, Vice President of the United States,
ex officio

Edwin J. (Jake) Garn, Senator from Utah

Daniel P. Moynihan, Senator from New York

James R. Sasser, Senator from Tennessee

Edward P. Boland, Representative from Massachusetts

Silvio O. Conte, Representative from Massachusetts

Norman Y. Mineta, Representative from California

David C. Acheson, citizen of the District of Columbia

Anne L. Armstrong, citizen of Texas

William G. Bowen, citizen of New Jersey

Jeannine Smith Clark, citizen of the District of Columbia

Murray Gell-Mann, citizen of California

A. Leon Higginbotham, Jr., citizen of Pennsylvania

Carlisle H. Humelsine, citizen of Virginia

Samuel C. Johnson, citizen of Wisconsin

Barnabas McHenry, citizen of New York

The Secretary
Robert McCormick Adams

Dean W. Anderson, Under Secretary

David Challinor, Assistant Secretary for Research

Joseph Coudon, Special Assistant to the Secretary

Tom L. Freudenheim, Assistant Secretary for Museums

Margaret C. Gaynor, Congressional Liaison

James M. Hobbins, Executive Assistant to the Secretary

John F. Jameson, Assistant Secretary for Adminstration

Ann R. Leven, Treasurer

Peter G. Powers, General Counsel

John E. Reinhardt, Director, Directorate of International
Activities (until August 30, 1987)

Ralph C. Rinzler, Assistant Secretary for Public Service

James McK. Symington, Director, Office of Membership
and Development
Statement by the Secretary

Robert McC. Adams

On September 28, virtually at the end of the fiscal year
on which this Annual Report is focused, the doors of the
great Quadrangle complex immediately to the south of
the Smithsonian Institution’s “Castle” headquarters were
finally opened to the public. This long-awaited event, an-
ticipated by several weeks of scholarly symposia and sim-
ilar celebratory occasions, culminated an intricate process
of planning, financing, and construction that had its ori-
gin more than a decade earlier. The Smithsonian, and
indeed the nation, has gained two splendid new mu-
seums, together with several related facilities, a beautiful
garden, and other public attractions that will perma-
nently grace the Mall in Washington. And the Institu-
tion’s unrivaled capacity to inform and represent the
world has taken another giant step forward.

Success in this unique and visionary enterprise came
only as a result of a host of contributions taking many

different forms. To begin with, its construction repre-
sented an unprecedented partnership of public and pri-
vate funding efforts. We accordingly have many friends
in the Congress to thank on the one hand, and on the
other some 38,000 individual, corporate, and national
contributors who together made it possible to match the
federal appropriation toward the cost of construction.
Acknowledgment of their vital role is inscribed at the
three entrances to the complex, and fully recorded within
it for public reference.

With so many to thank, I must concentrate in these
pages on only the handful whose contributions most cen-
trally defined and gave life to the enterprise. First among
them, although to our deep regret he did not live to see
its completion, was Dr. Arthur M. Sackler. The founding
core of the marvelous collection housed in the new gal-
lery carrying his name was drawn at his invitation from

The ribbon cutting at the dedication ceremony of the Arthur M. Sackler Gallery and the National Museum of African Art. Cutting
the ribbon are (from left to right) Jean Paul Carlhian, architect; the Reverend John Kinard, director of the Anacostia Museum;

Secretary Emeritus S. Dillon Ripley; Secretary Robert McC. Adams; and Anne Armstrong, former ambassador to Great Britain and
a Smithsonian regent. (Photograph by Dane Penland)

9
his own unsurpassed collection of Far and Near Eastern
antiquities. There can have been few patrons of the arts,
in our time or any other, with either his sensitivity to the
interplay of ancient art and technique or his concern for
the larger significance of national collections. Both are
reflected in what he has given us. Dr. Sackler’s own sci-
entific career and wide-ranging interests in the arts and
public communication intersected with those of the
Smithsonian at many points, and his vision of the world
unity of human intellectual and cultural efforts is one
from which we will continue to draw inspiration.

Mrs. Enid Haupt is a second dominating spirit. A great
authority on gardens in her own right, she generously
provided the means to surmount the Quadrangle at
ground level with a rare jewel of a garden that frames the
complex beneath in living warmth and color. The specific
designs that were adopted, as well as the selection of the
trees and shrubs, all reflect the rigorous application of
her own impeccable standards. Opening four months
prior to the Quadrangle itself, the garden’s shaded walks
and cool fountains have already provided a welcome res-
pite for visitors during the first of many simmering Wash-
ington summers.

The original vision of the project, as well as the cha-
risma and determination that carried it forward to ulti-
mate success, were of course those of my predecessor as
Secretary, S. Dillon Ripley. The testimony of many col-
leagues makes clear that he harbored the idea of it for
many years before any practical steps toward its imple-
mentation became possible. The possibility of adding a
newly expanded National Museum of African Art to such
a complex probably came to him almost as soon as the
museum and its former Capitol Hill headquarters in an
ill-adapted series of row houses became a part of the
Smithsonian in 1979. To him also belongs the credit for
inspiring first Arthur Sackler and then key committees in
the Congress with that vision, for shepherding it through
the maze of supervisory bodies that have a claim on ap-
proving Mall construction of any kind, and finally for
mobilizing the interest and support of the public through
the National Board of the Smithsonian Associates. By the
time I came aboard in September 1984, plans were essen-
tially complete and excavations already under way. It fell
to me only to maintain a happy combination of ingredi-
ents in place, and to add, massage, or otherwise process
them according to well-established recipes.

By action of the Smithsonian Board of Regents, facili-
ties for the important set of outreach activities that are
grouped together on the third and deepest level of the
complex along a grand concourse have been named the

Io

S. Dillon Ripley Center. Included are the Smithsonian In-
stitution Traveling Exhibition Service (SITES), the Na-
tional Associates, the Resident Associates, and the
Directorate of International Activities. All took shape or
were greatly expanded under Ripley’s direction, all will
benefit from the seminar and lecture facilities that have
been provided there, and together they go a very long
way toward enhancing the Smithsonian’s international as
well as national field of action in a direction that one
must believe James Smithson always intended that the
Institution should take.

Special thanks must also go to architect Jean Paul Carl-
hian, who imaginatively and ably met two substantial
challenges. The first was to construct on a large scale,
and deep underground, a building that could supplement
its complex, utilitarian functions with its own powers of
attraction for visitors. Secondly, and only slightly less
daunting, he needed to draw out of an array of conflict-
ing—sometimes changing—demands a single design that
would most nearly harmonize the interests of different
groups of occupants. The extraordinary outcome that he
fashioned interweaves themes drawn from the contrastive
cultural contexts of the Asian and African collections,
creating a composite whose parts are distinguishable and
yet complementary. Visitors pass through successive, en-
grossing, meticulously imagined settings that augment the
objects on view while drawing them toward new and un-
expected angles of vision that still lie ahead. Carlhian had
a guiding hand, too, in the Haupt Garden that caps the
whole assemblage, a place of beauty and tranquility that
conclusively drives home the arguments for having built
downward rather than upward in the first place.

Hoping to sketch a vision not so much of what was
planned as of what is in prospect, let me turn to the
many contributions that the new complex is beginning to
make to the Smithsonian’s programs. It provides, most
importantly, a new window on the Mall for fuller repre-
sentation of the cultural and artistic heritage of some
two-thirds of the world’s people. To take the case of the
National Museum of African Art, its greatly enlarged ex-
hibition areas, drawing extensively upon loaned materials
as well as upon permanent collections, make possible the
simultaneous display of diverse themes. The richness and
variety of the collections thus assembled have had a
widely acknowledged impact upon viewers; together with
the greater accessibility of the Mall location, this surely
accounts for the fact that in its first three full months of
operation five times as many visits were recorded as in its
last full year on Capitol Hill (198s).

The Sackler Gallery greatly enlarges our coverage of
Brandon Carr and Amecia Stephens discover one of the Smithsonian’s backlit dioramas that were placed in five metro subway
stations and the Washington, D.C., Amtrak terminal for two months during the summer. Produced by the Office of Public Affairs,
the posters described the multiheritage scope of the Smithsonian collections. (Photograph by Dane Penland)

the arts of Asia. While its collections splendidly supple-
ment and amplify those already in the Freer Gallery, its
still greater promise is that it engages us more directly in
processes of intercourse and representation extending far
beyond inanimate displays. The Sackler collections are
not tied by the many restrictive provisions governing
those of the Freer, which preclude borrowing or loaning
objects for special exhibits. Thus the possibilities for cre-
ative programming are greatly enlarged, only beginning
with the opportunity to borrow objects from many
sources as well as loan them. Entirely new kinds of col-
laboration become possible with specialists from many

countries—in designing exhibits that can travel, in sensi-
tively exploring differences in the interpretation of cul-
tural materials, in combining object-oriented displays
with lectures, scholarly seminars, and cultural perform-
ances of all kinds, and in frank experimentation with
new ways of showing and seeing.

In addition to the major new museums that I have
mentioned, there is a special international exhibition gal-
lery that is directly associated with the offices of the Di-
rectorate of International Activities. Again, its presence
enhances our flexibility in taking thematic approaches
that erase the usual boundaries of museum coverage and
draw simultaneously upon the talents and resources of a
number of our own constituent museums as well as oth-
ers. This is exemplified by the opening exhibition. Enti-
tled “Generations,” it takes a wide-ranging, cross-cultural
look at how, as families and societies, we welcome in-
fants at birth and nurture and protect them as children.

The challenge of improved representation of other cul-
tural and artistic traditions, in short, is one that looms
before us with new force and clarity as a result of the
completion of the Quadrangle complex. The challenge
itself is not new. It has always been too easy to take for
granted that things in our collections can speak for them-
selves. At least in part, that complacent assumption is
what the passion for authenticity commonly attributed to
museums and their curators is all about. But truth, or at
least the whole truth, is not to be so easily found or
exhibited. Museums, as David Lowenthal has written,
are distorting mirrors. We may want to think of them as
faithful transmitters of the messages of other cultures, or
of our own past, but even the most mundane of material
artifacts have as many layers of meaning as the events
and memorabilia of our own lives. One may try to repre-
sent another culture or past way of life in a spirit of
objectivity, but the outcome is always, in good measure,
a creative act.

Thomas Lawton, Director of the Arthur M. Sackler Gallery,
and Jill Sackler, widow of the museum’s benefactor, at the press
preview on September 10. (Photograph by Kim Nielsen)

12

“Our” conception of culture traditionally has tended to
be a largely materialistic one valuing not an inward jour-
ney toward harmony or understanding but an accumula-
tion of inventions and achievements. “Progress” was,
until recently, an article of faith. But aside from its un-
doubted capacity for technological supremacy, doubts are
now accumulating that there is any innate superiority in
this viewpoint. Should we not concede the possibility that
the ideal of disembodied machinery as an effortless cor-
nucopia of endlessly increasing material wealth provides
an inadequate basis on which to probe for patterns of
significance—at least in the cultures of “others,” and per-
haps even in our own? Inevitably, given the cultural
standpoint from which curators begin and in spite of ded-
icated efforts to the contrary, museums to some degree
will always misunderstand, distort, and fragment the
“other” cultures they seek to portray. And inadvertent
though they may be, those departures from the unrealiza-
ble ideal of objectivity are often regarded as—and in fact
are—trivializing and demeaning to the cultures it is our
aim to represent.

Here, then, is the contemporary challenge of represen-
tation. As the Smithsonian further enlarges the scope of
its collections and increases—now by two, in a single,
auspicious opening—the number of monumental reposi-
tories in which it places them, it becomes more incum-
bent on us to acknowledge that these steps in the
direction of universality should be matched by increasing
efforts to improve our standards of representation. A
number of curators at the Smithsonian currently are en-
gaged in just such efforts. They have held and are plan-
ning several projects or colloquia, partly in recognition of
an obligation to our own immense, multi-ethnic public
but also in hopes of providing leadership in addressing
similar concerns not only at other museums in this coun-
try but around the world.

This brings me to a closely related responsibility to
increase the representation of women and minorities
within the Smithsonian’s own ranks, and especially on its
professional, technical, and administrative staffs. Obliga-
tions exist, in any case, to take affirmative action toward
this end. Those obligations assume even greater moral
force in a city like Washington, where a substantial ma-
jority of the population is constituted of blacks and other
minorities. But the connecting link with the issue of mu-
seum representation is that efforts to do both strongly
reinforce—may even be necessary accompaniments of—
one another.

Sensitivity to the nuances of portraying cultural differ-
ences without trivializing them or erecting false, demean-
ing stereotypes is more likely to grow out of daily,
working contact with such differences than out of mere
abstractions in an absence of opportunity for broadening
experience. Interaction, iterative encounters with alterna-
tive sets of cultural perspectives and priorities, the give
and take of a continuing dialogue in which the diversity
characteristic of a museum’s public finds some significant
expression in the preparation of exhibits on their be-
half—these conditions, while surely not enough in them-
selves, can make an important contribution. The
prospect of that contribution supplies a strong additional
incentive to do better and sooner what we should be
doing anyway.

Where do we stand at present with regard to the com-
position of our senior staff? The simple answer is: in
need of substantial further improvement in the represen-
tation of both women and minorities. Categories are slip-
pery, so that statistical compilations relevant to this
involve an element of subjectivity and judgment. Esti-
mates of the available pool of suitably trained and experi-
enced personnel on whom the Smithsonian might hope to
draw tend to be even more subjective. Somewhat oppor-
tunistically selecting an area for which data are available,
however, we might consider the biological sciences as an
example of a field in which the Smithsonian is heavily
involved. About ro percent of our permanent profes-
sional staff in this group of scientific disciplines currently
are women; the total proportion of minorities is some-
what lower, blacks and Hispanics each accounting for
only 2 percent.

Figures assembled by the National Science Foundation
offer some means of assessing the size of the national
pool. Considering individuals engaged in basic research
in academic institutions, the proportion of women ap-
proximately doubled (to about 15 percent) between 1975
and 1985. If we take a more prospective look by asking
about those still in the training pipeline, it appears very
likely that this trend will continue. Women who were
graduate students in the biological sciences in 1986
amounted to about 44 percent of the total, having risen
from 38 percent seven years earlier, while the number of
men engaged in advanced study actually dropped. Within
the life sciences (a more inclusive category, primarily
adding health-related fields) women already outnumbered
men by 1980 and by 1985 constituted 56 percent of those
enrolled as graduate students.

For minorities, the near-term prospects are much less
auspicious. Blacks who were doctoral-level researchers in
science or engineering also nearly doubled in numbers
between 1975 and 1985, but even in the latter year consti-

GOUORED

Re-creation of a segregated railroad station with sleeping-car
porter materials. From the exhibition “Field to Factory: Afro-
American Migration, 1915-1940,” at the National Museum of
American History. (Photograph by Eric Long)

tuted only about 1.2 percent of the total. And while the
numbers enrolled as graduate students in the life sciences
climbed about 32 percent between 1980 and 1985, they
still constituted little more than 3.3 percent of the total.

What lessons are there for us in these figures? For
women, the evidence is unambiguous that a decisive shift
is occurring fairly rapidly. The proportion of women in
the biological sciences who enter our applicant pool—and
this observation can be generalized to most other fields—
can be expected to increase steadily. There will be an

13
unavoidable lag dependent on the rate of personnel re-
placement, and with age differentials full attainment of
equality of status and opportunity may lag even longer.
But the Smithsonian may well move toward something
approaching parity in at least the numbers of men and
women scientists in the years ahead. For blacks and His-
panics, on the other hand, any prognosis based strictly
on the size of the national pool of potential applicants
with the requisite training must be guardedly long range
at best. If we wish to assume a position offering any
leadership with regard to the issues of representation that
were mentioned earlier, we will need to find ways sub-
stantially to exceed the national averages.

Complicating the problem are specialized requirements
that tend to be obscured by national aggregates like the
ones cited. Our primary thrust in the biological sciences,
for example, is in fields tied descriptively to classes of
organisms. This is the historical focus of natural history
museums. Since our collections remain a fundamental na-
tional resource for the solution of many practical prob-
lems such as those involving human health and disease,
agricultural pest control, and wildlife management as
well as for the advancement of basic scientific under-
standing, their conservation and systematic study remain
an important priority today.

However, while this responsibility must continue to be
met, it cannot suffice as our exclusive focus of interest.
Were it to do so, we would be virtually unable to take
cognizance of major biological breakthroughs at the cel-
lular, molecular, and genetic rather than whole-organis-
mic level. It would also mean that we could create few
openings in the more health-related sciences, or in con-
nection with agriculture and resource-related fields.

Yet let us suppose, as the evidence tends to indicate,
that minorities have been somewhat more likely to pur-
sue advanced training in the latter than in the former
direction. Clearly, our opportunities to enlarge minority
representation will increase in proportion to the total
number who are present in our applicant pool. A wid-
ened, more flexible approach to staff recruitment—taking
our programs in the direction of agriculture and other
forms of human interaction with the environment, as
well as into new subfields of biology—is a form of pro-
grammatic evolution that certainly appears to be more
responsive to the Institution’s long-term interests and
responsibilities.

I should stress that this is only one illustration of an
approach that must be adapted to individual occurrences
throughout the Smithsonian that are characteristically
differentiated. The challenges of representation are, in all

14

likelihood, less immediate and compelling in biology than
in history, anthropology, and the arts. Since they deal
directly with human cultures and societies, moreover,
these latter subject areas can be addressed in a greater
variety of ways.

While well aware that there is a great deal more to be
done, I believe that in recent years the Smithsonian has
made progress on several fronts. Much takes the form of
concerts, lectures, symposia, performances, and educa-
tional activities. In addition, the role of minorities has
been highlighted in a number of permanent and special
exhibitions at the National Museum of American His-
tory, the National Museum of American Art, and the
Anacostia Museum. Several years ago a Committee for a
Wider Audience was established to review all our pro-
grams involving issues of representation and audience in-
volvement. With regularly budgeted funds and external
as well as internal members, it is actively pursuing its
work. More recently it has been supplemented by a Cul-
tural Education Committee, under the chair of Regent
Jeannine Smith Clark, and with a prominent membership
drawn largely from the Washington community. Ques-
tions of representation of minorities on the Smithsonian
staff and sensitivity to cultural pluralism in our exhibit
programs are among the principal themes of discussion in
these bodies. Needless to say, they are also themes that
are of great importance to Smithsonian management.

We at the Smithsonian must recognize that our very
uniqueness and centrality as a national institution require
that we assume a special role. It is understandable that
many ethnic and cultural communities are particularly
concerned with how well they are understood and repre-
sented in this setting. Demands for the correction of prac-
tices or exhibits directly concerning these communities
are only to be expected and need to be met with a contin-
uing sensitivity to the fact that, for the communities in-
volved, the forms of recognition they achieve or fail to
achieve at the Smithsonian may appear to be a significant
indicator of their public standing.

A pertinent illustration may be provided by our ongo-
ing discussions with members of a number of Native
American communities and with representatives of na-
tional Indian leadership. Most are actively protesting the
portrayal of traditional American Indian life in our eth-
nographic exhibits. They have also raised strong objec-
tions to the Smithsonian’s retention of large American
Indian skeletal collections for study, and to the utilization
of materials from these collections in some of our exhib-
its on human biology. I do not want to minimize the
seriousness of the differences that remain. It is a sufficient
measure of their complexity that scientific and legal as
well as cultural considerations need to be taken into ac-
count and that legislation on some of them is pending in
the Congress. But we are at least fortunate in being able
to interact over the disputed details of our policies with
the able intercession of two well-qualified American In-
dian scholars who are on our own staff as curators and
colleagues.

In short, the importance of viewing actions from multi-
ple perspectives cannot be overstressed if museums are to
meet the growing challenges of, and sensitivities to, issues
of representation. Beyond the legal and moral pressures
to do so anyway, the enhancement of this capacity by
encouraging greater staff diversity needs to be recognized
as an imperative of Smithsonian policy.

The Year in Review

The Smithsonian capped the year with a grand celebra-
tion, the public unveiling of the Institution’s new mu-
seum, research, and education complex. Crowned by the
4.2-acre Enid A. Haupt Garden, two jewel-like pavilions,
and a kiosk that inspires whimsy, the splendid under-
ground complex is the home of the Arthur M. Sackler
Gallery—the fourteenth Smithsonian museum—the Na-
tional Museum of African Art, the International Center,
several offices, and state-of-the-art educational facilities.

The culmination of two decades of planning, four
years of construction, and nearly a year of gallery prepa-
ration, the opening fulfilled a dream that originated with
Secretary Emeritus S. Dillon Ripley in the late 1960s. En-
tered through separate pavilions, the Sackler Gallery and
the Museum of African Art provide, as Ripley envi-
sioned, a “window on the National Mall” for the civiliza-
tions of Africa, the Near East, and Asia. On the third
and lowest level of the complex is the S. Dillon Ripley
Center, which features the International Gallery, a fitting
complement to the museums above. Here, the Smithson-
ian will present exhibitions that highlight the Institution’s
global endeavors, nurture understanding of other cul-
tures, and focus attention on issues that span national
boundaries. The Ripley Center also houses the National
and Resident Associate Programs, the headquarters of the
Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service, and
the Education Center, which includes classrooms, work-
shops, and a lecture hall.

During the Institution’s 141-year history, the site of the
new complex—the quadrangle of land now defined by
the Castle, the Freer Gallery of Art, the Arts and Indus-

A young Baule weaver, photographed in Cote d'Ivoire. The
photograph was made in preparation for “Patterns of Life: West
African Strip Weaving Traditions,” one of the inaugural exhibi-
tions at the National Museum of African Art, which included
examples of traditional textiles made by the Baule people.

tries Building, and Independence Avenue—had been
home to an observatory, grazing buffaloes and other ani-
mals, various temporary structures, and a parking lot.
With its elegant transformation, the Castle’s South Yard
now features truly world-class centers for exhibition, re-
search, and education programs on the cultures of Africa
and Asia.

In addition to marking a major step forward in the
Smithsonian’s mission to increase and diffuse knowledge,
the opening was an occasion to pay tribute to those who
made the complex possible. The $73.2 million complex is
the product of federal and private cooperation. A federal
appropriation covered half the cost, with the remainder
coming from the governments of Japan, South Korea,

TS
and other nations; corporations; foundations; thirty-eight
thousand Smithsonian Associates; other individuals; and
Institution trust funds. New York philanthropist Enid A.
Haupt donated $3 million for the garden that bears her
name. Arthur M. Sackler, whose death a few months
before the opening greatly saddened all his Smithsonian
friends, contributed one thousand masterworks of Asian
art and $4 million toward the construction of the mu-
seum named in his honor.

Hundreds of Smithsonian staff members, representing
offices and bureaus across the Institution, contributed to
this successful undertaking. The staffs of the Museum of
African Art, the Sackler Gallery, the International Cen-
ter, and the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition
Service spent long hours readying the thirteen inaugural
exhibitions for visitors to the new facility. The Office of
Horticulture succeeded in fulfilling the wishes of donor
Enid A. Haupt by creating an exquisite garden with a
“mature look.”

Important supporting roles were played by the Smith-
sonian National Associate Program, the Resident Associ-
ate Program, the Office of the Committee for a Wider
Audience, and the other units that arranged special activ-
ities to showcase the new museums to the public. The
Office of Public Affairs organized an all-day press confer-
ence for the media, attracting nearly three hundred repre-
sentatives of ninety-eight publications and nineteen
broadcast outlets. The attendance—the largest press
draw in the Institution’s history—and the resulting world-
wide media coverage testified to the national and interna-
tional significance of the museums. Smithsonian
magazine devoted twenty-six pages to the garden and
museums, and Smithsonian Institution Press provided
able and timely assistance in ensuring that catalogues and
other informational materials were ready for the opening.
The Visitor Information and Associates’ Reception Cen-
ter prepared floor plans and trained docents to handle
queries at its new information desks in the Sackler Gal-
lery, the Museum of African Art, and the kiosk of the
Ripley Center.

Several months before the opening, the Smithsonian In-
stitution Libraries opened a new National Museum of
African Art Branch, the Warren Robbins Library, and
completed a major book-acquisition program that will
enable the facility and its staff to provide valuable sup-
port to scholars of African art and culture. In addition,
the Smithsonian Institution Archives initiated steps to-
ward developing an archival program for the art mu-
seums. Behind-the-scenes efforts also included the work
of the Institution’s administrative offices, which attended

16

to the many important details involved in the planning,
construction, and opening of a major new facility.

The opening was a fitting finale to a year that was nota-
ble in many other respects. The past twelve months were
accented by the twentieth anniversary and relocation of
the Anacostia Museum, the twenty-fifth anniversary of
the National Portrait Gallery, major new initiatives in
research and education, programs commemorating the
Bicentennial of the U.S. Constitution, and the acquisition
of Folkways Records, as well as many other significant
additions to the Smithsonian collections.

The intended beneficiary of these activities is, of
course, the American public, and statistics for 1987 indi-
cate that the Institution is reaching an ever-larger portion
of this broad audience. Despite three major snowfalls
that virtually closed the entire city of Washington, D.C.,
attendance at the Institution’s museums was up 13 per-
cent in 1987. The thirteen museums in Washington,
D.C., and the one museum in New York City counted
25.7 million visits in 1987, an increase of three million
from the previous year. Part of the increase can be attrib-
uted to extended hours at several museums on the National
Mall during Easter week in April and the summer months.

An additional one million people flocked to the Mall in
June and July to partake in the diverse offerings of the
21st Festival of American Folklife, which commemorated
Michigan’s rsoth anniversary as a state and celebrated—
through music, crafts, oratory, and traditional ceremo-
nies—the nation’s rich ethnic composition.

For the majority of citizens who do not live in the
Washington, D.C., area or who did not journey to the
nation’s capital in 1987, the Institution brought programs
and services to them. Tours of exhibitions, organized by
the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service,
included stops at 396 sites, which were visited by an esti-
mated ten million people. Smithsonian magazine was
read by a monthly audience of about seven million, and
Smithsonian/Air & Space magazine, which celebrated its
first anniversary in April, served a circulation of three
hundred thousand people, making it the largest publica-
tion of its kind.

In its third season, the cultural documentary series
“Smithsonian World” was broadcast on Public Broadcast-
ing Service stations across the nation. The short-feature
series “Here at the Smithsonian” was aired on stations
serving more than half the nation’s households, and a
potential three million listeners tuned in to “Radio
Smithsonian.”

The more than fifteen hundred daily and weekly news-

papers that subscribed to the Smithsonian News Service
were supplied with a steady flow of information about
the myriad activities and interests of the Institution. In
addition, the office’s Spanish edition of the Smithsonian
News Service, launched in 1986, continued to serve more
than one hundred Hispanic publications.

The Smithsonian National Associate Program orga-
nized a broad array of activities for its two million mem-
bers and other interested members of the public. Some
670,000 families were invited to attend the National As-
sociates Lecture and Seminar Program, with offerings at
sites throughout the country. International and domestic
travel and study tours organized by the National Associ-
ate Program drew seven thousand participants. Also in
1987, the number of Contributing Members, 90 percent
of whom live outside the Washington, D.C., area, grew
to 44,800, a one-year increase of 8 percent.

Functioning much like a university, the Smithsonian
Resident Associate Program, which counted fifty-eight
thousand members in 1987, organized eighteen hundred
activities attended by some 260,000 people.

At the Smithsonian’s hub—the Visitor Information and
Associates’ Reception Center—staff members and volun-
teers fielded questions from more than four hundred
thousand telephone callers and responded to forty-seven
thousand inquiries that arrived through the mail. Coming
from scholars and members of the general public, thou-
sands of other requests for information and assistance
were handled directly by many of the Institution’s offices
and bureaus. The Smithsonian Institution Archives, for
example, responded to sixteen hundred reference inquir-
ies, aiding the efforts of researchers. The six regional cen-
ters of the Archives of American Art were visited by
thirty-three hundred researchers, and the centers distrib-
uted nineteen hundred rolls of microfilm, containing cop-
ies of items in the art Archives’ vast collections of
records, to libraries throughout the country.

Scholars in the United States and abroad make up an
important segment of the Smithsonian’s audience. Hun-
dreds visited the Institution in 1987 to further their stud-
ies and to consult with Smithsonian curators, scientists,
and other members of the professional staff. These con-
tacts, which are encouraged by a variety of grants and
fellowship programs, have nourishing effects, promoting
progress in specific lines of research and bringing valu-
able expertise to the Institution.

The scope of the Institution’s diverse activities—in
terms of geographic reach and range of topics in the arts
and sciences—is broad indeed. But if it were not for the
thousands of volunteers who contribute their time and

energy to the Institution, the breadth of the Smithsonian’s
efforts would be considerably narrower. In 1987, 5,244
volunteers played essential roles in nearly all units of the
Institution. They staffed information desks, led tours, or-
ganized the annual Washington Craft Show and other
fund-raising events, assisted curators and researchers,
and performed numerous other tasks that benefited the
Institution and its visitors.

Depending on their preferences, Smithsonian visitors
can take vicarious trips to virtually any region of the
world, explore the Solar System and beyond, immerse
themselves in important periods of cultural and geologi-
cal history, survey progress in fields of science and tech-
nology, or trace trends in schools and styles of art. These
and the many other options confronting visitors were en-
hanced by the mounting of some one hundred new per-
manent and temporary exhibitions in 1987. A few of
these exhibitions are described below.

To inaugurate its new home in Southeast Washington’s
historic Fort Stanton Park and to mark its twentieth anni-
versary, the Anacostia Museum (formerly the Anacostia
Neighborhood Museum) featured “Contemporary Visual
Expressions,” an exhibition highlighting the work of four
contemporary black American artists. Visitors to the new
facility viewed the works of Sam Gilliam, Martha Jack-
son-Jarvis, Keith Morrison, and William T. Williams.
While closed, preparing to move from the converted
movie theater that had been its home, the museum shed
its designation as a “neighborhood” museum. The change
reflects the growing national and international recogni-
tion the museum has received for its role in explaining
the social, political, and cultural contributions of black
Americans. Programs undertaken at the new facility are
likely to benefit from the fact that, for first time in the
museum’s existence, the entire staff is housed in the same
building.

At the National Museum of American History, the ex-
hibition “Field to Factory: Afro-American Migration,
1915—1940” retraced the large-scale movement of blacks
from the rural South to the urban North. Known as the
“Great Migration,” the population shift not only pro-
foundly affected the lives of the participants but also re-
structured American society. The exhibition featured two
hundred objects that helped detail the personal experi-
ences of the migrants and contrasted their living environ-
ment in the South with the surroundings they occupied in
the North.

The National Museum of Natural History/ National
Museum of Man broke its annual attendance record, at-
tracting eight million visitors in 1987. An important con-

17
tributing factor was “Portraits of Nature: Paintings by
Robert Bateman.” The major retrospective exhibition fea-
tured more than one hundred works by the Canadian
painter, who is, perhaps, the foremost wildlife artist in
the world today. More than 275,000 people toured the
exhibition during its four-month run. Another exhibition,
which will continue for several years, allowed visitors to
observe the museum’s technicians and specialists as they
prepare a dinosaur skeleton for public display.

Celebrating its twenty-fifth anniversary in 1987, the
National Portrait Gallery reinstalled its entire permanent
collection. The reinstallation was completed with the
opening of “Stage Portraits: Photographs by Mathew
Brady from the Frederick Hill Meserve Collection.” To
commemorate its silver anniversary, the museum pre-
sented an exhibition of the works of Henry Inman, one
of the preeminent figures in the field of portraiture during
the first half of the nineteenth century.

At the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, exhi-
bitions mounted in 1987 included “Nancy Graves: A
Sculpture Retrospective,” which surveyed the American
artist’s work from the late 1960s to the present, and
“Lucian Freud,” which featured seventy paintings and
fourteen drawings by the British realist painter.

The Cooper-Hewitt Museum in New York City pre-
sented twelve new exhibitions. Among the varied offer-
ings of the Smithsonian’s National Museum of Design
were “Milestones: Fifty Years of Goods and Services,”
which marked the fiftieth anniversary of the Consumers
Union, and several exhibitions devoted to architecture,
including one focusing on the work of Frank Lloyd
Wright and another featuring the work of Louis Sullivan.

Noteworthy exhibitions at the National Museum of
American Art included “Gene Davis, A Memorial Exhibi-
tion” and “John La Farge,” the first retrospective of this
innovative nineteenth-century artist in more than fifty
years. The Renwick Gallery, a curatorial department of
the National Museum of American Art, continued its tra-
dition as a national showcase for American crafts. The
Renwick’s exhibition “American Art Deco,” which also
will be shown at four other museums, drew much critical
acclaim.

Even the most avid visitors to the Smithsonian’s new
museum complex probably were overwhelmed by the ex-
hibition choices. The National Museum of African Art
presented five inaugural exhibitions “African Art in the
Cycle of Life,” “The Permanent Collection of the Na-
tional Museum of African Art,” “Objects of Use,” “Pat-
terns of Life: West African Strip-Weaving Traditions,”

18

and “Royal Benin Art in the Collection of the National
Museum of African Art.”

A stroll across the Enid A. Haupt Garden delivered
visitors to the Arthur M. Sackler and its seven inaugural
exhibitions of Asian art. The new museum’s offerings
were: “In Praise of Ancestors: Ritual Objects of China,”
“Monsters, Myths, and Minerals,” “Pavilions and Im-
mortal Mountains: Chinese Decorative Art and Paint-
ing,” “Nomads and Nobility: Art of the Ancient Near
East,” “Persian and Indian Painting: Selections from a
Recent Acquisition,” “Temple Sculptures of South and
Southeast Asia,” and “Chinese Buddhist and Daoist
Imagery.”

In the complex’s International Gallery, the subject was
“Generations.” The gallery’s inaugural exhibition, orga-
nized by the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition
Service, was a multicultural exploration of the arts and
rituals associated with birth and infancy from ancient
times to the present.

To mark the tenth anniversary of the Dibner Library, a
collection of rare books on the history of science and
technology, the Smithsonian Institution Libraries
mounted the exhibition “Nota Bene.” The display of
twenty-nine books spanning 443 years featured volumes
notable for their historical significance and for the curi-
ous annotations readers had inscribed in margins and
flyleaves.

Preparing for a major construction project that will
add much needed space and connect it to the Sackler
Gallery, the Freer Gallery closed nine of its nineteen exhi-
bition halls in 1987. A representative selection of works
from the Freer’s Chinese, Japanese, Indian, Near Eastern,
and American collections remained on display.

The National Zoological Park and several museums
added to their permanent exhibitions in 1987.

Continuing its transformation into a biological park,
where the diversity and interdependence of plant and ani-
mal life are highlighted, the National Zoo opened its new
“Invertebrate Exhibit.” This exhibit features intriguing
specimens of the more than 95 percent of animal species
that do not have backbones. Visitors in 1987 were intro-
duced to giant octopuses, sponges, amoebas, cuttlefish,
leaf-cutter ants, and other invertebrates found on land
and in water. Accompanying graphics, displays, and
hands-on experiments foster understanding of biological
processes.

With issues of competitiveness in manufacturing very
much on the national agenda these days, a new exhibi-
tion at the National Museum of American History offers
a comprehensive look at the nation’s evolution from an
agricultural economy to a world industrial power. “En-
gines of Change: The American Industrial Revolution,
1790-1860” features case studies that depict the develop-
ment of American industry, focusing on the workers,
inventors, entrepreneurs, and industrialists who contrib-
uted to the rise of U.S. manufacturing. The studies also
tell the intertwined stories of the introduction of new ma-
chines and ways of organizing work.

At the National Air and Space Museum, “America’s
Space Truck,” on display in the Space Hall, traces the
evolution of the nation’s Space Shuttle program, from the
first launch in 1981, through the disaster of the Chal-
lenger, to the future. The museum also expanded its Stars
Gallery with the addition of sections on the Hubble Space
Telescope and on infrared astronomy. On display are a
full-scale replica of the Infrared Astronomy Satellite and
an array of other telescopes and detectors.

The Air and Space Museum also introduced “State of
the Universe,” an engrossing planetarium show that
dramatizes how perceptions of the cosmos have changed
with ever more sophisticated observing techniques.

Remodeling and reinstallation work at the Hirshhorn
Museum and Sculpture Garden has allowed it to display
more selections from its permanent collection, while cre-
ating special exhibition galleries and a small theater for
visitor orientation programs.

Through the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibi-
tion Service (SITES), the Institution brings its produc-
tions to people who live outside the Washington, D.C.,
area. In 1987, SITES exhibitions, many of them created
in cooperation with other Smithsonian bureaus, were dis-
played at locations in forty-five states.

Among the eighteen new SITES offerings in 1987 was
“Russia, The Land, The People: Russian Painting, 1850-
1910,” an exhibition featuring artworks from two of the
Soviet Union’s state-owned collections. Following its
opening at the Renwick Gallery, the exhibition went on a
ten-month tour, attracting a total of 250,000 visitors at
its three stops. With its new additions, SITES now offers
a total of 122 traveling exhibitions.

The Smithsonian added its contributions to the nation-
wide celebration of the Bicentennial of the U.S. Constitu-
tion, a five-year-long series of programs to commemorate
the signing and ratification of the Constitution and the
signing and ratification of the Bill of Rights. The Institu-

tion’s Office of Interdisciplinary Studies focused its Ninth
International Symposium on the theme “Constitutional
Roots, Rights, and Responsibilities.” At the week-long
symposium, more than seventy internationally recognized
scholars, educators, and jurists from the United States
and abroad probed the Constitution’s origins and devel-
opment and discussed the two-hundred-year-old docu-
ment’s applicability to the present-day United States. The
audience included students from around the country, and
parts of the proceedings were broadcast by the Voice of
America, C-Span, and Worldnet.

The Office of Elementary and Secondary Education or-
ganized a day-long seminar, “Teaching the Constitution,”
attended by 150 teachers and school administrators from
the Washington area. The office also devoted an edition
of its national publication for teachers, Art to Zoo, to
teaching the concept of individual rights and responsi-
bilities of citizenship. The Resident Associate Program
organized four activities—one-day study tours to Phila-
delphia and to the Virginia home of James Madison, an
all-day seminar, and a lecture by educator and lawyer
Archibald Cox—that focused on issues and historical
events related to the Constitution.

“Roads to Liberty: From the Magna Carta to the Con-
stitution,” a traveling exhibition designed and produced
by the Office of Exhibits Central, was seen in 134 cities,
ending its tour in Philadelphia on the anniversary of the
signing of the Constitution. The exhibition was produced
to support the efforts of the Commission on the Bicenten-
nial of the U.S. Constitution and of the U.S. Constitution
Council.

Exhibitions scheduled to open at the National Museum
of American History and the National Portrait Gallery
during the early part of the 1988 fiscal year will have
constitutional themes. A variety of other exhibitions and
programs are planned for the commemorative period.
The Smithsonian’s baseline inventory of its collections
showed that the Institution is the nation’s steward of 134
million objects, works of art, and scientific specimens.
The vast majority (88 percent) of these items are in the
collections of the National Museum of Natural History,
which in the past year alone added about eight hundred
thousand specimens.

The Institution’s collections are national treasures. Col-
lectively, they serve to preserve the past, enhance our un-
derstanding of nature and society—in the United States
and throughout the world—safeguard irreplaceable
works of art and material culture for future generations,
and support research that expands knowledge in the arts

19
and sciences. Items added to the collections are given
as gifts, gathered during scientific expeditions, or
purchased.

In 1987, the Smithsonian acquired Folkways Records,
the best-known publisher of commercial recordings of
folk and tribal music in the United States and publisher
of a historically significant collection of spoken-word re-
cordings. Acquired from the estate of company founder
Moses Asch, the Folkways Records catalogue contains
more than twenty-two hundred albums.

The diverse collection includes music from early classi-
cal to electronic, documented recordings of more than
seven hundred native peoples of the world, songs and
games for children in several languages, and a science
series with offerings ranging from the calls of North
American frogs to an introduction to human biology. In
addition to the current inventory of recordings, which is
distributed by the Birch Tree Group, the Institution ac-
quired the Folkways Archives, a gift from Michael and
Frances Asch, the son and widow of the founder. The
archives consists of Moses Asch’s personal collections of
books and records, field notes and recordings, business
and personal correspondence, and cover art. This exten-
sive collection of material is expected to be of great inter-
est to researchers. The Smithsonian Institution Press and
the Office of Folklife Programs will share reponsibility
for Folkways Records.

The National Museum of American Art was the recipi-
ent of gifts of two important collections. New York col-
lector Herbert Waide Hemphill, Jr., donated 378 folk art
objects, spanning the eighteenth to twentieth centuries.
An important collection of paintings by American ab-
stract artists of the 1930s and 1940s was given to the
museum by Patricia and Phillip Frost of Miami Beach,
Florida.

A 1785 portrait of Benjamin Franklin by J. S. Duplessis
was one of several significant acquisitions of the National
Portrait Gallery. The collection of the National Museum
of African Art grew by forty-eight works of art, including
a particularly noteworthy wooden figure carved by the
Songye people of Zaire. The Cooper-Hewitt Museum en-
riched its holdings of extremely rare Oriental textiles
with the purchase of a thirteenth-century needlework ren-
dering of a bodhisattva, which is believed to have origi-
nated in China. Twenty-four gifts and ten purchases of
paintings and sculptures were reported by the Hirshhorn
Museum and Sculpture Garden. Among the notable addi-
tions to the Hirshhorn’s collections were Seguidilla, a
1919 painting by Man Ray, and two bronze casts—Angst

20

and Cubist Bust—by Czechoslovakian sculptor Oto
Gutfreund.

Acquisitions by the National Museum of American
History reveal the eclecticism of the museum’s interests.
They included a Jarvik 7 artificial heart, a gown owned
by Martha Washington, the original movie script for The
Wizard of Oz, and the Gold Rush—a human-powered
land vehicle that, in May 1986, achieved the record-set-
ting speed of 65.48 miles per hour.

The collections of the National Air and Space Museum
contain twenty-eight thousand artifacts related to the his-
tory of flight and space exploration. The museum added
several historically significant aircraft in 1987, including
Voyager, the first airplane to make a nonstop trip around
the world without refueling.

Breeding programs at the National Zoological Park,
designed to replenish zoo stocks and to serve as a hedge
against the extinction of animals in the wild, resulted in
1,326 births during the 1986 calendar year. Among the
newborns were a giraffe, a saurus crane, golden-lion
tamarins, clouded leopards, Guam rails, Bali mynahs,
and red-crowned cranes.

The zoo and millions of interested onlookers suffered a
major disappointment in June 1987 with the death of
twin cubs born to the zoo’s giant panda Ling-Ling. One
cub died almost immediately, apparently because it was
undersized. The second, however, appeared strong
enough to survive, but succumbed to a systemic infection
three days after it was born.

An agreement concluded with the National Cancer In-
stitute (NCI) in 1987 calls for the Smithsonian Oceano-
graphic Sorting Center, which is administered by the
National Museum of Natural History, to house and cu-
rate a voucher collection of nearly ten thousand marine
plant, invertebrate, and fish specimens. The specimens
are duplicates of those undergoing biochemical testing at
NCI for potential anticancer substances. The specimens
will be available for study by scientists from the Smith-
sonian and other institutions.

The Smithsonian’s collections serve not only to preserve
knowledge but also to extend it. The Institution encour-
ages scholars and students worldwide to use its collec-
tions and to join its scientists and curators in their
ongoing research programs. To foster these mutually
beneficial collaborations, the Institution made awards to
more than seven hundred students and scholars in 1987.
The awards, administered by the Office of Fellowships
\ : uf Fas =; Ri oa si x
ae ats . ee SE EE

Evening Light-White Gyrfalcon by Robert Bateman. From the exhibition “Portraits of Nature: Paintings by Robert Bateman,”
January 17 thru May 17, 1987, at the National Museum of Natural History/National Museum of Man.

and Grants (OFG), are for lengthy residencies, which
permit in-depth study; short visits, which may entail re-
search, an examination of collections, or consultations
with the Institution’s professional staff; and for intern-
ships. Of the 172 visiting researchers who received assis-
tance from OFG’s Short Term Visitor Program in 1987,
seventy-three were foreign scholars from thirty-one
countries.

The activities of these important Smithsonian visitors
comprised an extremely diverse research agenda. They
pursued such topics as cultural nationalism in post—
World War I American art, morphological and genetic
variability in animal populations, the biology of larvae
inhabiting coral reefs, the history of aerodynamics, the
geology of Mars, and Timurid inscriptions on paintings
in the collections of the Sackler and Freer galleries.

Scholarship and the exchange of ideas are also encour-
aged through conferences, workshops, and other activi-
ties. OFG, for example, provided support for sixteen

workshops designed to bring scholars together from a va-
riety of fields to discuss subjects of common or comple-
mentary interest. The Office of Interdisciplinary Studies
helped organize a variety of seminars and symposiums,
including a novel one-day gathering on creativity in the
arts and sciences.

Often, the Smithsonian convenes conferences to serve
as catalysts to open new areas of investigation. In May,
for example, the National Museum of Natural History
summoned paleoecologists from the United States, Can-
ada, England, and West Germany to assess current
understanding of terrestrial environments from four hun-
dred million years ago to the present. The aim of the
conference, the first one ever devoted to this subject, was
to establish a framework for addressing the biological im-
pacts of the global demise of tropical forests.

The Office of Publications Exchange, founded by
Joseph Henry, the Smithsonian’s first secretary, contin-
ued its service to the international exchange of knowl-

21
edge. In 1987, the office handled 104,720 packages of
scholarly materials from 149 domestic institutions for
transmission abroad and 25,200 packages from foreign
institutions for distribution in the United States.

Among the many benefits that flow from the Smithsoni-
an’s international scientific and cultural collaborations is
the opportunity to enhance the American public’s under-
standing of the histories, cultures, and natural environ-
ments of the many regions of the world. A 1985 cultural
agreement between the Smithsonian and representatives
of the Soviet Union, for example, resulted in the exhibi-
tion “Russia, The Land, The People: Russian Painting,
1850-1910.” “New Horizons: American Painting, 1840-
1910,” the exchange exhibition organized by the Smith-
sonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service, was
scheduled to open in Moscow in November 1987.

Also during the past year, the Smithsonian, the Soviet
Union Academy of Sciences, and the International Re-
search Exchange Board signed an agreement specifying
their cooperation in a major international exhibition on
the cultures of the North Pacific region. Opening at the
National Museum of Natural History in 1988, the exhibi-
tion, “Crossroads of Continents,” will highlight the cul-
tures of Alaska and Siberia from the end of the Ice Age to
modern times. The exhibition will tour the United States
and Canada until 1992, when it will be taken to Moscow,
the first of several stops in the Soviet Union.

Other international endeavors in 1987 included the
signing of a protocol of cooperation between the Institu-
tion and Iraq and the National Zoological Park’s Interna-
tional Wildlife Conservation Training Program, which
attracted twenty-four students from twelve countries. In
addition, the Office of Museum Programs organized
workshops for museum professionals that were held in
Trinidad/Tobago and Costa Rica, and it organized spe-
cial seminars for visitors from Spain, France, and the
People’s Republic of China. As well, the Office of Protec-
tion Services hosted and coordinated the 1987 Interna-
tional Conference on Museum Security.

Subscribing to the view that learning is a lifelong pursuit,
the Smithsonian places major emphasis on education and
outreach activities for the public. The museums, the Na-
tional Zoological Park, and many other units within the
Institution offer specialized programs that bring the
Smithsonian’s educational resources to youngsters and
adults. Moreover, these units are continually evaluating
new techniques and strategies to enhance the learning
value of exhibitions and other programs.

22

With the opening of the National Demonstration Labo-
ratory for Interactive Educational Technologies in 1987,
the Smithsonian features the first U.S. facility devoted
entirely to achieving the full potential of one of the most
powerful technologies of the Information Age. Interactive
video technology offers exciting new ways for graphically
presenting relationships between concepts and objects,
prose and image, and sight and sound—all at the beckon-
ing of the person in control of a computer keyboard.
Beyond its educational applications, the tool is likely to
spawn innovative methods for organizing, storing, ar-
chiving, and retrieving information, capabilities that have
captured the interest of museums, television stations,
schools, and government agencies. During its first three
months of operation, the laboratory, which is jointly
sponsored by the Smithsonian and a group of public tele-
vision stations, hosted more than five hundred visitors
who came to explore the technology and its applications.

The Smithsonian is also the new home of the National
Science Resources Center, a program begun in 1985 by
the Institution and the National Academy of Sciences.
Offering a variety of resources and activities to improve
the quality of science and mathematics instruction in the
nation’s elementary and secondary schools, the center ini-
tiated its first major project in 1987. The four-year under-
taking, called “Science and Technology for Children,”
focuses on children in the first through sixth grades. In-
volving center staff and a national network of school sys-
tems, state departments of education, science museums,
researchers, and education experts, the project will pro-
duce a series of scientific investigations designed to culti-
vate problem-solving and critical-thinking skills.

Programs for teachers were included among the activi-
ties of the Office of Elementary and Secondary Educa-
tion, which works with other Smithsonian offices to
encourage schools to use museums as extensions of the
classroom. In 1987, the office organized three regional
workshops for teachers, which were held in Jackson,
Michigan; Waterloo, Iowa; and Philadelphia, Pennsyl-
vania. The workshops were complemented by a variety
of programs held in Washington, D.C., special activities
for children, and the office’s publications.

Collectively, the Smithsonian’s exhibitions and educa-
tional activities—lectures, films, live performances, tours,
field trips, in-depth courses, books, teachers’ manuals,
and others—seek to serve the varied interests of the Insti-
tution’s diverse audience. To help ensure that these pro-
grams are accomplishing their objectives, Secretary
Robert McC. Adams established an Advisory Council on
Education. Composed of five outside experts with back-
Benjamin Franklin by Joseph S. Duplessis, oil on canvas. Purchase by the National Portrait Gallery made possible by the Morrisa
Gwendolyn Cafritz Foundation. (Photograph by Eugene Mantie)
grounds in art history, science, the media, education, and
museums, the council will help the Institution’s educa-

tional offices develop priorities and will advise the offices
on designing specific programs to accomplish these goals.

Another advisory body formed in 1987, the Cultural Edu-
cation Committee, will help the Smithsonian forge
stronger links with cultural and ethnic groups that are
underrepresented in the Institution’s visitor and Associate
membership programs. The committee, whose members
represent many ethnic segments of the U.S. population,
will advise the Office of the Committee for a Wider Au-
dience and the senior management of the Smithsonian.

The creation of the ten-member body is a continuation
of long-standing outreach efforts that have received re-
newed emphasis since the early 1980s. The results have
been an expanding array of exhibitions and programs
that convey the histories of the nation’s cultural commu-
nities and reflect their roles in the country’s development.

Last year’s outreach efforts included the National Mu-
seum of American History exhibition “Field to Factory;”
programs commemorating Black History Month, His-
panic Heritage Week, and Asian-Pacific Heritage Week;
the Office of Public Affairs’ new calendar of Smithsonian
events for Hispanic organizations and media; an advertis-
ing campaign aimed at black audiences and carried out
by the Office of Public Affairs and the Office of the Com-
mittee for a Wider Audience; and the many ethnic offer-
ings of the Festival of American Folklife, such as the first
in a continuing series of annual programs that highlight
the musical traditions of the cultural communities in
Washington, D.C.

In addition, the Office of the Committee for a Wider
Audience and the Museum of American History’s Pro-
gram in Black American Culture sponsored a national
conference to evaluate museum programs that have suc-
cessfully integrated the histories and cultures of ethnic
groups. The Museum of American History also initiated
the Program in Hispanic American History. The program
will explore critical themes in Hispanic American history,
from colonial times to the present.

Efforts to reach more segments of the population are
buttressed by programs designed to encourage greater in-
volvement of minority scholars in Smithsonian research,
which serves as the foundation for many of the Institu-
tion’s other activities. A new program for Native Ameri-
cans was added to existing awards and internships aimed
at increasing the participation of minority students and
scholars. Begun by the Office of Fellowships and Grants
in cooperation with other bureaus, the program offers

24

short-term appointments to scholars from Native Ameri-
can communities. In 1987, seven appointments were
made. The awards allowed the researchers to use Smith-
sonian resources in their studies of such topics as the
breakup of the Sioux Nation and the role of women in
contemporary trends in American Indian art.

An important component of the Smithsonian’s mission

is to extend the limits of understanding in history, the
arts, and the sciences. In 1987, bureaus and offices under-
took an array of investigations. Projects delved into the
geological and cultural past, contemplated the future,
spanned international boundaries, reached into the heav-
ens, and furthered efforts to preserve the Earth’s biologi-
cal diversity.

Researchers at the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observa-
tory, which is part of the Harvard—Smithsonian Center
for Astrophysics (CfA), were at the forefront of studies of
the brightest exploding star seen in more than four cen-
turies. Discovered early enough after its explosion to al-
low detailed examination, the supernova—named SN
1987A—put scientists on the trail of new clues to stellar
evolution.

CfA researchers used the full range of Earth- and
space-based modern astronomical instruments to gather
information about the rarely glimpsed phenomenon.
From data collected by the International Ultraviolet Ex-
plorer, a CfA astronomer was the first to determine that
SN 1987A’s progenitor was the blue supergiant star San-
duleak -69 202. Working at the Cerro Tololo Inter-
American Observatory in Chile, a team of center
scientists made the surprising discovery of an enigmatic
and inexplicably bright object near the supernova. Unob-
served before the supernova, the companion object is sus-
pected of being linked to the explosion, perhaps created
by the violent stellar event. Months after the observation,
the origin and nature of the object remained scientific
quandaries.

Other CfA research in 1987 improved the accuracy of
the measurement of the Earth’s distance from the center
of the Milky Way and led to a theory that could resolve a
long-standing mystery of the Solar System—the origin of
the Moon. On the basis of their study, two CfA scientists
presented a convincing argument that the Moon was cre-
ated by a collision between the Earth and another body
perhaps 1.2 times the mass of Mars.

At the National Air and Space Museum, where inter-
ests extend from the history of aviation to the future of
space exploration, research by members of the Center for
Earth and Planetary Studies and their collaborators led to
new insights into the unusual topography of Mars. In the
museum’s Department of Space Science and Exploration,
staff members and visiting scholars completed the second
year of a project to evaluate the societal impact of large,

publicly funded air and space programs.

Seeking to resolve questions about the effects of acid
rain, scientists at the Smithsonian Environmental Re-
search Center constructed a detailed “acid budget” for a
mature forest lining the shore of the Chesapeake Bay. In
addition to their many other findings, the group deter-
mined that forest vegetation and soil neutralized 98 per-
cent of the acid in rain and snow; yet, the remaining
2 percent was sufficient to acidify waters draining into
watershed streams.

Also at the Smithsonian facility in Edgewater, Mary-
land, researchers began a novel field experiment to assess
the impact of increasing atmospheric concentrations of
carbon dioxide on Chesapeake Bay plant communities.
Contained in large open-top chambers, plants are being
exposed to twice the current ambient levels of the “green-
house gas.” Measurements of the plants’ rates of photo-
synthesis and other variables are being compared with
measurements of the same variables for plants growing
under normal conditions.

In September, a multidisciplinary team of scientists
from the National Museum of Natural History began the
first phase of an ambitious international project to inven-
tory the unknown flora and fauna of Amazonia. Begin-
ning in the Beni Reserve, a large expanse of virgin
subtropical forest in Bolivia, the biodiversity inventory
will not only add greatly to knowledge of the tropical-
forest ecosystem, but is also expected to yield new
sources of food, biological control agents, and germ-
plasm resources. An important facet of the research effort
is training. As the program expands, hundreds of young
professionals and collaborators will receive scientific
training in conjunction with inventories in their own
countries.

Concern over decreasing biological diversity as a result
of the Earth’s shrinking expanses of tropical forest also
prompted the Museum of Natural History to establish a
program on the Evolution of Terrestrial Ecosystems.
From the geological record, program scientists hope to
determine how ecosystems have responded to cata-
strophic changes in the past. This information will help
researchers gauge and predict the impact of deforesta-
tion and other major environmental changes under way
today.

Two research successes at the National Zoological
Park could eventually lead to breeding programs to help

check the threatened extinction of species of wild cats
and of the black-footed ferret. An in-vitro fertilization
system developed by zoo scientists resulted in “test-tube”
kittens, the first carnivorous animals ever produced by
such methods. Now that the system has been successfully
demonstrated with domestic cats, researchers are work-
ing to extend the procedure to nondomestic cat species.

Another team of zoo researchers used artificial-insemi-
nation methods to produce common ferrets, nonendan-
gered relatives of the nearly extinct black-footed ferret.
The accomplishment introduces artificial insemination as
an option for breeding programs to stem the decline of
the black-footed ferret.

The broad-ranging programs of the Smithsonian Trop-
ical Research Institute, located in Panama, continued to
add to scientific understanding of the complexity and di-
versity of tropical biology and ecosystems. With financial
support from the U.S. Department of Interior, institute
scientists are evaluating the biological impacts of a 1986
oil spill near Galeta, site of the institute’s mainland ma-
rine station on the Carribean. An extensive monitoring
program has been established, which will yield data that
can be compared with information from the institute’s
past studies of the area. Using core samples of corals,
which live for centuries and lay down annual rings, the
team will also compare the oil spill’s impact on coral
growth rates with other growth-rate fluctuations during
the past several hundred years.

Other projects at the institute included studies of natu-
ral selection, competition, and predation, as well as a
promising demonstration project on returning degraded
pastureland to useful agricultural production. The tech-
niques developed in the project could eliminate the need
to burn and clear new land for farming and thus relieve
some of the development pressure on Panama’s forests.

At the Conservation Analytical Laboratory, a multidis-
ciplinary group of conservators, scientists, and engineers
conduct studies on the conservation, examination, and
characterization of museum objects. Among the projects
begun in 1987 was an investigation of potential sources of
ore for early Middle Eastern silver and bronze manufac-
ture. Another new project is focusing on the earliest
known ceramics, which date back to about 26,000 B.C.
Discovered in Czechoslovakia, the artifacts include figu-
rines of Venus and of mammoths, wolverines, and other
animals. Conservation research included studies of the
physical and chemical effects of various techniques for
treating paper. As part of the laboratory’s continuing
studies of building climates, researchers initiated an in-
vestigation of the Renwick Gallery’s reconstructed fa-
Teachers writing chemistry activities at the National Science Resources Center’s Science and Technology for Children workshop held

during the summer of 1987.

cade, installing sensors for continuous monitoring of
humidity conditions and heat-transport phenomena.

An integral component of the Smithsonian’s programs for
scholars and the general public is its book and record-
publishing activities and its film, television, and radio
projects. In 1987, several new initiatives were begun, and
past efforts were recognized for their excellence.

After only three seasons, “Smithsonian World,” the
public television series coproduced by the Institution and
WETA, received a Primetime Emmy for Outstanding In-
formational Series. Moreover, “The Wyeths: A Father
and His Family,” one of the five “Smithsonian World”
offerings during the year, was nominated for a News and
Documentary Emmy.

Smithsonian magazine was selected as the winner of
the Outstanding Magazine Award of the American Soci-
ety of Journalists and Authors, Inc.

Records and books published by the Smithsonian Insti-
tution Press received many honors. The booklet accom-
panying Virtuosi, released in 1986 by the Press’s
Recording Division, won the ASCAP Deems-Taylor

26

Award for distinguished writing on the subject of music,
and it was nominated for a Grammy Award. Among the
Smithsonian Institution Press books receiving awards
were Gene Davis: A Memorial Exhibition, The Mystery
of Comets, and Bachman’s Warbler.

In 1987. the Press published numerous books on art, his-
tory, and science. To commemorate the opening of the new
museum complex, the Press conceived, developed, and pub-
lished A New View from the Castle, an illustrated account
of the complex’s architecture and personae.

Smithsonian bureaus produced a variety of important
exhibition catalogues, volumes on current research, bibli-
ographies, and guides to collections and archives. The
National Museum of American Art produced the six-vol-
ume National Museum of American Art’s Index to Amer-
ican Art Exhibition Catalogues, from the Beginning
through the 1876 Centennial Year. This comprehensive
work, ten years in the making, contains a vast body of
information—where, what, and how often an artist ex-
hibited; artistic fashions and influences in particular geo-
graphic locations; and the provenance of specific works,
as well as many other interesting items.
Three new scholarly journals were also introduced in
1987. The Oxford University Press published the first vol-
ume of Smithsonian Studies in American Art, a semian-
nual journal from the National Museum of American
Art, and the National Museum of American History in-
troduced Rittenhouse: The Quarterly Journal of the
American Scientific Instrument Enterprise. For scholars
and Asian art enthusiasts in the general public, the Ar-
thur M. Sackler Gallery offered Asian Art, a quarterly
journal published in cooperation with the Oxford Univer-
sity Press.

Several developments during the past year promise con-
tinuing improvement in the Institution’s efforts to fulfill
its broad mission.

The $2.7 million fund-raising campaign for the new
Smithsonian Information Center reached a successful
conclusion, allowing construction to commence in the fall
of 1987. Housed in the Castle and expected to be ready in
1989, the new center will feature two orientation thea-
ters, each seating about seventy people, and a variety of
information and orientation aids, including video presen-
tations—captioned in English and five foreign lan-
guages—and interactive video displays.

Construction began on the Earl S. Tupper Research
and Conference Center at the Smithsonian Tropical Re-
search Institute. The facility will house laboratories for
staff members and visiting scientists, areas for growing
plants and caring for research animals, and a 176-seat
auditorium for conferences.

Preparations began for a major expansion of the Freer
Gallery. The project will create an underground passage
between the Freer and Sackler galleries, the Smithsonian’s
two Asian art museums. It also will triple space for con-
servation and technical study of artworks, and facilities
for storing collections will increase 70 percent. Construc-
tion is scheduled to be completed by October 1989.

To improve service to the some nine million people
who visit it each year, the National Air and Space Mu-
seum is adding a self-service cafeteria that can seat 800
people on the third level and a restaurant that will ac-
commodate 180 on the mezzanine level. Scheduled to
open in the fall of 1988, the eating facilities will be
housed in an all-glass enclosure, offering views of the
Capitol and the National Mall.

Staff Changes

The Smithsonian community endured quite a number of
changes in personnel during fiscal year 1987 and once

again sustained too many irreparable losses. Of particular
note was the untimely death of Dr. Arthur M. Sackler
whose affinity to the Institution throughout much of the
1980s was of such an order that I and many of my associ-
ates considered him an intimate member of the Smithson-
ian family. We will remember him not only as an
accomplished scientist, passionate collector, and connois-
seur but also as an exemplar and supporter of all of the
unities of creative life whose advancement lies at the
heart of our mission.

During the year we winced repeatedly at the almost
inevitable succession of top staff departures. For exam-
ple, retirements this year included head of the Directorate
of International Activities John E. Reinhardt, Director of
the Office of Audits and Investigations Chris S. Peratino,
Director of the Smithsonian National Associate Program
Jacqueline F. Austin, Cooper-Hewitt Museum Founding
Director Lisa M. Taylor, and Director of the Office of
Telecommunications Nazaret Cherkezian. We have also
lost by resignation both Director of SITES Peggy A. Loar
to the Wolfsonian Foundation and Director of the Office
of Information Resources Management Richard H. Lytle
to Drexel University. And while we will miss him in the
Smithsonian context, we were proud to see our colleague
James H. Billington, who served since 1973 as the Direc-
tor of the Woodrow Wilson Center for International
Scholars, installed as the new Librarian of Congress.

While many searches have been launched to find suit-
able replacements for these esteemed comrades, none had
reached a conclusion by year’s end. We were nonetheless
delighted to welcome Professor Martin O. Harwit of
Cornell University as our new Director of the National
Air and Space Museum. Similarly, as the year drew to a
close we were pleased to confirm the appointments of
Thomas E. Lovejoy as our new Assistant Secretary for
External Affairs, Robert S$. Hoffmann as successor to As-
sistant Secretary for Research David Challinor, Zahava
D. Doering as a Special Assistant to the Secretary for
Survey Research, and Madeleine S. Jacobs as the Director
of the Office of Public Affairs, although we learned with
great regret that Thomas Lawton would soon be resign-
ing from the directorship of the Center for Asian Art.

In all of these changes we are reminded that the
strength of the Smithsonian continues to be in its dedi-
cated personnel, and those of us who remain feel a spe-
cial debt of gratitude to those who have entrusted the
Institution to our collective talents.
Report of the Board of Regents

With his installation as Chief Justice of the United States,
William H. Rehnquist became a Regent of the Smithson-
ian Institution on September 26, 1987. Acting with dis-
patch to select a new Chancellor of the Institution, the
chairman of the Executive Committee named a nominat-
ing committee composed of Messrs. Bowen (chair),
Humelsine, Higginbotham, Gell-Mann, and Mrs. Arms-
trong. Conferring on October 1, the committee outlined
the duties of the Chancellor and recommended that Chief
Justice Rehnquist be nominated for election as Chancellor
by the Board of Regents. After visiting with him in late
October, Mr. Bowen indicated to the Regents the Chief
Justice’s willingness to serve, and accordingly a ballot for
his election as the sixteenth Chancellor was distributed
and affirmatively voted by the Regents in November.

Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan also became a new
Regent this year, filling the seat vacated with the retire-
ment of Senator Barry Goldwater.

During 1987 there were two, rather than the customary
three, meetings of the Board of Regents. Unusually heavy
snowfalls in quick succession virtually paralyzed the city
of Washington in late January and for the first time in
memory forced the cancellation of the Board meeting
scheduled for Monday, January 26. Nonetheless, much of
the business of the meeting was transacted through
mailed ballots. The Board’s actions included the designa-
tion of Senator Goldwater as Regent Emeritus, approval
of the Five-Year Prospectus, Fiscal Years 1988-1992,
naming the “Patricia and Phillip Frost Gallery” in the Na-
tional Museum of American Art, revision of the bylaws
of the National Museum of American Art Commission,
reappointments to that commission, and authorization of
the Secretary’s negotiation of most favorable terms for a
Smithsonian credit card.

The spring meeting of the Board was held on Monday
morning, May 11, in an International Center meeting
room on the third subterranean level of the nearly com-
pleted Quadrangle building. The Audit and Review Com-
mittee of the Board reported on its most recent meeting,
which focused particularly on the Smithsonian’s affirma-
tive action and equal opportunity programs. Noting the
apparent lack of progress in increasing the representation
of minorities and women in the professional ranks, the
Board urged the Secretary to build pools of excellent mi-
nority scholars by means of more aggressive pre- and
postdoctoral fellowship programs. After hearing a report
of the Investment Policy Committee on the status of the
endowment funds, the Board held an extensive discussion
and voted to order the sale of the Institution’s remaining
investments in firms doing business in South Africa as

28

soon as practicable, consistent with the preservation of
principal.

In other actions, the Board voted to name the third
level of the Quadrangle building the S. Dillon Ripley
Center in honor of the eighth Secretary’s vision and ac-
complishments, to abandon the idea of a Smithsonian
credit card but to encourage the study of launching a
major capital campaign, to accept the annual report of
the Secretary for fiscal year 1986, to name the Discover
Graphics Workshop in honor of Gene Davis for his many
contributions to the Smithsonian, to award the Henry
Medal to retiring Cooper-Hewitt director Lisa Taylor,
and to appoint and reappoint members of the National
Portrait Gallery Commission, the Cooper-Hewitt Advi-
sory Council, and the Commission of the National Mu-
seum of African Art.

In addition to giving consideration to a variety of other
matters, the Regents engaged in an extensive discussion
of the Institution’s interactions with the concerns of na-
tional Indian organizations about Native American repre-
sentation in Smithsonian exhibits and collections of
Native American skeletal remains, legislation with respect
to the repatriation of those remains and sacred objects,
and the future of the Museum of the American Indian,
Heye Foundation. While a number of divergent views
were expressed, the Secretary was encouraged to work
toward an agreement with the museum that would ensure
the preservation and exhibition of the museum’s collec-
tions, recognizing that the issue of the museum’s reloca-
tion to Washington must first be settled in the New York
courts.

A Regents’ dinner was held in the Hall of Presidents of
the National Portrait Gallery on Sunday evening, May
10, 1987. After dinner, the Secretary welcomed Chief
Justice Rehnquist and Senator Moynihan as new Regents
and presented to Dr. John Reinhardt the Secretary’s Gold
Medal for Exceptional Service along with a citation pre-
pared in handsome calligraphy.

The final meeting of the Board for the year was held
on September 28, 1987, in the largely refurbished Re-
gents’ Room. It was reported that the Executive Commit-
tee, acting on behalf of the Board, had designated the
Arthur M. Sackler Gallery in perpetuity and approved
the naming of the Hirshhorn auditorium in honor of Mr.
and Mrs. Gustave Ring and the library of the National
Museum of African Art in honor of founding director
Warren Robbins. After discussing reports from their vari-
ous committees, the Regents approved the appointment
of former Senator Charles McC. Mathias to the Audit
and Review and Personnel Committees, the Institution’s
budget for fiscal year 1988 and requests and projections
for fiscal year 1989, further revisions to the Bylaws of the
Commission of the National Museum of American Art,
and the naming of the garden between the Arts and In-
dustries Building and the Hirshhorn Museum in honor of
Mary Livingston Ripley. The Regents also held extensive
discussions of a proposed policy of rotating independent
auditors every ten years, suggested amendments to the
Inspector General Act of 1978, the status of the endow-
ment funds and their divestment of stocks in companies
doing business in South Africa, the draft of the Five Year
Prospectus for fiscal years 1989-93, the backlog of essen-
tial building maintenance and repairs, the Museum Sup-
port Center storage equipment, and the Museum of the
American Indian.

In lieu of the traditional Regents’ Dinner, on Sunday
evening, September 27, the Board of Regents hosted a
formal reception in the Concourse of the S. Dillon Ripley
Center in honor of the opening of the National Museum
of African Art, the Arthur M. Sackler Gallery, and the
International Gallery. Speakers for the evening included
Secretary Adams, Secretary Emeritus Ripley, and Chan-
cellor Rehnquist.

On Monday, September 28, at noon, the Regents, in-
vited staff and guests, and a good number of the visiting
public gathered for a ribbon-cutting ceremony marking
the opening of the Quadrangle facilities to the public.
Following a musical prelude from the U.S. Navy Cere-
monial Band, the ceremony began with an invocation
from Rev. John R. Kinard, welcoming remarks from Sec-
retary Adams, additional remarks from Secretary Emeri-
tus Ripley and architect Jean Paul Carlhian, and a
keynote address from Regent Anne L. Armstrong. The
ceremony concluded with the speakers cutting a symbolic
ribbon as Smithsonian guards cut ribbons at the doors
and hundreds of balloons were released simultaneously
from the National Museum of African Art, the Arthur
M. Sackler Gallery, and the S. Dillon Ripley Center,
which were then open to the public.

Benefactors

The Smithsonian gratefully acknowledges the support of
the individuals, foundations, and corporations listed be-
low, whose gifts, bequests, and contributing member-
ships aided the work of the Institution during the past
fiscal year.

The Smithsonian owes its founding to the generosity of
one individual. During most of its history since 1846, the
Institution has relied upon a combination of both federal
and trust funding to carry out the terms of James Smith-
son’s will. As a trust instrumentality of the United States,
the Smithsonian has received federal appropriations for
research, exhibition of the national collections, and main-
tenance of the valuable objects of science, history, and
culture entrusted to it.

The trust funds have been equally important, providing
the Smithsonian with the flexibility and independence es-
sential to its innovative growth. Such nonfederal funds
traditionally have made possible many of the research,
acquisition, and educational programs central to the In-
stitution’s achievements.

This list includes donors of $1,000 or more. Certain
donors have requested anonymity. If the name of any
other donor has been omitted, it is unintentional and in

no way lessens the Smithsonian’s appreciation.

$500,000 or more

Space Biospheres Venture

E.I. duPont de Nemours & Company

The John D. and Catherine T.
MacArthur Foundation

Earl Silas Tupper, S.A.

Tupper Foundation

$100,000 or more

Annie L. Aitken Charitable Trust

The Bass Trust

The Morris and Gwendolyn Cafritz
Foundation

The Commemorative Association for
the Japan World Exhibition (1970)

DC Comics, Inc.

Digital Equipment Corporation

Eastman Kodak Company

The Armand Hammer Foundation

IBM Corporation

Japan Shipbuilding Industry Foundation

W. K. Kellogg Foundation

Enid and Crosby Kemper Foundation

The Henry Luce Foundation, Inc.

Commonwealth of Massachusetts
Council on the Arts & Humanities

Andrew W. Mellon Foundation

State of Michigan

Michigan Sesquicentennial Commission

Mill Pond Press, Inc.
PepsiCo, Inc.
The Philecology Trust

Pioneer Foundation, Inc.

Arthur M. Sackler Foundation

Der Senator fur Kulturelle
Angelegenheiten, Berlin
(Goethe House)

Unisys

Estate of Dorothy Varian

Xerox Foundation

$50,000 or more

American Australian Bicentennial
Foundation

The Brown Foundation, Inc.

Estate of Frederick Bugher

CIGNA Foundation

Dorothy C. Danforth

Fine Art Acquisitions Ltd.

Dr. Edward P. Henderson

International Telecommunications
Satellite Organization

The J.M. Kaplan Fund, Inc.

Franklin H. Kissner

Martin Marietta Corporation

Mobil Oil Corporation

New York State Council on the Arts

Herman and Phenie Pott Foundation

Sears, Roebuck & Company

Shearson Lehman Brothers

Alfred P. Sloan Foundation

Mrs. Arthur Hays Sulzberger

Times Mirror Co.

United Technologies Corporation

Wallace Funds
$10,000 or more

AT&T Foundation

All Nippon Airways

American Can Company Foundation

American Postal Workers Union,
AFL-CIO

American Security Bank

American Stock Exchange

John P. Axelrod

The Barra Foundation, Inc.

The Bay Foundation

Bear Stearns & Company, Inc.

The Beazley Foundation, Inc.

Patricia Davis (Mrs. Henry) Beck

Joseph A. Beirne Memorial Foundation

O. Benjelloun-Mezzian Foundation

Dr. and Mrs. Richard H. Benson

The Boeing Company

Cadillac Fairview Corp., Ltd.

Edward Lee Cave, Inc.

Dorothy Jordan Chadwick Fund

Chevy Chase Savings & Loan, Inc.

Dr. Timothy W. Childs

Clark-Winchcole Foundation

Comité Conjunto Hispanico-Norte-
americano para la Cooperacion
Cultural y Educativa

Compar, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. John A. Corroon

The Cousteau Society, Inc.

Credit Suisse

D.C. Commission on the Arts and
Humanities

Dart & Kraft Foundation

Walt Disney Pictures

Drexel Burnham Lambert, Inc.

Earthwatch

Ahmet Ertegun and Ioana Ertegun

Exxon Corporation

Jamee and Marshall Field Foundation

The Ford Foundation

Ford Motor Company

Freixenet, S.A.

Gannett Foundation

Mrs. Johnson Garrett

General Foods Fund, Inc.

Ann and Gordon Getty Foundation

J. Paul Getty Trust

Goodwill Games Organizing Committee

Mr. and Mrs. Richard E. Gray

The Greenwich Workshop, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. W. L. Hadley Griffin

Mary Livingston Griggs and Mary
Griggs Burke Foundation

Harry Frank Guggenheim Foundation

The George Gund Foundation

Estate of John K. Havemeyer

William Randolph Hearst Foundation

Henry J. Heinz

Gerald D. Hines

Eric Hotung

Indiana Historical Society

The International Foundation

International Union for Conservation of
Nature and Natural Resources

Kettering Foundation

Knight Foundation

Kraft Foundation

The Lawyers Co-operative Publishing
Co./Bancroft-Whitney

Dr. Jesse T. Littleton

Lockheed Missiles & Space Co., Inc.

Richard Lounsbery Foundation

Richard Manoogian

Marriott Corporation

Mars Foundation

McDonnell Douglas Astronautics Co.

Merrill Lynch Capital Markets

30

Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith,
Inc.

Eugene and Agnes E. Meyer
Foundation

Miles Laboratories, Inc.

Mitchell Energy & Development Corp.

Molex, Inc.

Motorcycle Industry Council, Inc.

Music Performance Trust Funds

New York Landmarks Conservancy,
Inc.

Edward John Noble Foundation, Inc.

Owens-Corning Fiberglas Corp.

David and Lucille Packard Foundation

PaineWebber Development Corp.

Pan American World Airways, Inc.

The Perkin-Elmer Corporation

Philip Morris Companies, Inc.

T. Rowe Price Associates, Inc.

Procter & Gamble Distributing Co.

ProServ, Inc.

Estate of Arthur Sawyer Redfearn

Resources for the Future, Inc.

Ralph C. and Kate H. Rinzler

Wilbur L. Ross, Jr.

Royal Air Maroc

Helena Rubinstein Foundation, Inc.

Sacred Circles Fund

Sandoz Pharmaceuticals Corp.

Securities Industry Association, Inc.

Shell Companies Foundation, Inc.

Siemens Capital Corporation

John Sloan Memorial Foundation, Inc.

The Society for the Advancement of
Material and Process Engineering

Dr. Israel Gregory Sohn

Eloise A. Spaeth

Spanish Cultural Committee

Sidney Stein, Jr.

Dr. Judith P. Sulzberger

Taubman Endowment for the Arts

Ruth and Vernon Taylor Foundation

Texas Instruments Foundation

The Times Mirror Foundation

United Auto Workers

UNESCO

US/ICOMOS

Mrs. Honore T. Wamsler

The Washington Post Company

Westinghouse Electric Corp.

World Wildlife Fund/The Conservation
Foundation

Sso00 or more

AFL-CIO

AKC Fund, Inc.

ALCOA Foundation

Caroline R. Alexander

Mr. and Mrs. Joe L, Allbritton

American Cyanamid Corporation

American Numismatic Association

Arcade, Inc.

Arcadia Foundation

Barker Welfare Foundation

Curtis T. and Douglas E. Bell

Laura Boulton Foundation, Inc.

Viola E. Bray Charitable Trust

Bristol-Myers Company

Eli Broad

Mrs. Evangeline B. Bruce

Brunschwig & Fils, Inc.

William W. Carson, Sr., Revocable
Trust

Chicago Community Trust

CIBA-GEIGY

Clark Endowment Fund

Charles Cowles Charitable Trust

The Dillon Fund

Domino Farms

Mr. Gaylord Donnelley

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Donner, Jr.

Peter F. Drucker

Joel and Anne Ehrenkranz
Philanthropic Fund

Estate of Janey Y. Evans

Walter and Josephine Ford Fund

Gallery Place Associates/ Oliver Carr
Co.

Girl Scouts of the U.S.A.

Goethe-Stiftung Fur Kunst Und
Wissenschaft

Graham Foundation for Advanced
Studies

Albert M. Greenfield Foundation

Mark G. Griffin

Hardesty & Hanover

Mrs. Henry J. Heinz II

Richard D. Hiil

Dorothy M. and Henry C. Johnson

The Katzenberger Foundation, Inc.

Narinder K. Keith and Rajinder K.
Keith

King Ranch Family Trust

Robert J. and Helen C. Kleberg
Foundation

Robert Krups, North America

William R. and Nora Lichtenberg
Foundation, Inc.

Donald M. Marron

Maryland Department of Natural
Resources

McDonnell Douglas Foundation

Mr. Alexander McLanahan

Alexander R. Mehran

Merck & Company, Inc.

Meridian House International

Barbara and Clifford Michel
Foundation, Inc.

Julienne M. Michel

Mobil Foundation

Dr. Eric Muth

Nancy Brown Negley

Pacific Telesis Foundation

Milton Petrie

Pfizer Inc.

Phillips Ltd.

Potlatch Foundation

Princess Grace Foundation

Riggs National Bank

Mary L. Ripley

Rockefeller Foundation

Arthur A. Seeligson

Robert F. and Anna Maria Shapiro

Smith Barney Harris Upham & Co.

Steelcase Inc.

Mrs. Joan Rozier Stephens

A. Alfred Taubman

U.S. Patent Model Foundation

Utah International Inc.

Hildegarde G. van Roijen

Ralph J. Weiler Foundation

Nina A. Werblow Charitable Trust

Annie Beatrice Wetmore

Wildlife Preservation Trust

Dave H. and Reba W. Williams

Leonard C. Yaseen Foundation, Inc.

$1000 or more

A La Vieille Russie, Inc.
Mrs. Christian H. Aall
Ronald and Anne Abramson

Mark and Jeanne Ellen Akins

Mr. and Mrs. C. Robert Allen III

Allied Corporation

American Ecological Union, Inc.

American Society of Tropical Medicine
and Hygiene

American Telephone & Telegraph
Company

Amos Press

Mr. and Mrs. Donald B. Anderson

Arabian American Oil Company

Association of Philippine American
Women

Atlantic Richfield Company

Avon Products, Inc.

Harry Bass Foundation

Bedding Plants, Incorporated

Bell Communications Research, Inc.

Bergman Family Charitable Trust

Berkshire Hathaway, Inc.

Ruth M. Berlin

Phillip I. and M. Mallin Berman

Mr. and Mrs. Norman Bernstein

Max N. Berry

Lee Howard Beshar

Charles L. and Lynda Biggs

Barry Bingham, Sr.

Mr. and Mrs. Barry Bingham, Jr.

Bill Blass Ltd.

Blum-Kovler Foundation

Bowers & Marena Galleries, Inc.

A. Smith Bowman Distillery, Inc.

Mrs. Karen Johnson Boyd

Jacquelyn H. Bradley

Oliver H. Briggs, Jr.

The British Embassy

Dorothy Collins Brown Fund

Irene M. Brown

Mr. and Mrs. John Lee Bunce

Mrs. Jackson Burke

Preston Butcher

California First Bank

Carlson Gallery

Dr. and Mrs. John M. Carroll

Chemical Bank

Chevron Corporation

Circle Theatres (Jim and Ted Pedas)

Citicorp Venture Capital, Ltd.

The Coach Dairy Goat Farm

Coats & Clark Inc.

Ralph T. Coe

Saul Z. and Amy Scheuer Cohen Family
Foundation, Inc

Conde Nast Publications, Inc.

Cone Mills Corporation

Consolidated Edison Co. of New York,
Inc.

Consolidated Natural Gas Co.
Foundation

Consumer's Union

Dr. G. Arthur Cooper

Sylvia Farin Cornish

Susan L. Cullman Philanthropic Fund

The Dayton Foundation

The Elsie De Wolfe Foundation, Inc.

Ms. Lydia dePolo

David Dibner

Mr. and Mrs. C. Douglas Dillon

Mr. and Mrs. George C. Dillon

Double X

Mrs. Joanne F. duPont

The Durfee Foundation

Dr. Richard Dybas

ETL Testing Laboratories, Inc.

Equitable Real Estate Group, Inc.

Federal Express Corp.

Harvey S. Firestone, Jr., Foundation

Fomebords Company

Formica Corporation
Diane and Charles L. Frankel

George S. Franklin

Dr. Kurt Fredriksson

Fried, Frank, Harris, Shriver &
Jacobsen

David Geffen Foundation

General Electric Corporation

Sumner Gerard Foundation

George J. Gillespie III

The Howard Gilman Foundation

Mrs. Viola Seff Goldberg

Harmon H, Goldstone

Arvin Gottlieb

Bernard S. Green

Estate of Mortimer Grunauer

Mrs. F. V. Grunbaum

Mr. and Mrs. Alfred H.D. Haiblen

Hugh Halff, Jr.

Emma Swan Hall

Phillip and Charlotte Hanes

Pauline L. Harrison

Mr. C. W. Hart, Jr.

Miriam and Peter Hass Fund

Mrs. Enid A. Haupt

Dr. and Mrs. S. I. Hayakawa

The Joseph H. Hazen Foundation

Hechinger Foundation

Hewlett Packard Company

Clarence and Jack Himmel Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. George C. Hinman

F. Harvey Howalt

Gertrude S. Howalt

F. Harvey Howalt, Jr.

Jay S. Howalt, M.D.

Mrs. Jacquelin Hume

Illinois Arts Council

International Brotherhood of Painters
and Allied Trades

International Centre for Diffraction
Data

International Cultural Society of Korea

Iroquois Brands Ltd.

Mr. Arata Isozaki

JAI Engineers

Richard J. Janes

Mr. and Mrs. Deane F. Johnson

Johnson & Higgins

Johnson & Johnson

Mr. and Mrs. John Johnson

Mrs. Charles F. Kahn

Mr. and Mrs. Jacob Kainen

Dwight M. and Donna S. Kendall

Dorothy R. Kidder

Mr. Gilbert H. Kinney

Shiegeo Kitaoka

Marion R. Koehler

Mr. and Mrs. Samuel W. Koffler

Robert P. Kogod

Krause Publishing Company

Samuel H. Kress Foundation

Bill G. Lambert

Landsman & Katz Foundation, Inc.

Chester H. Lasell

Sharon and Kara Lawrence

Mr. and Mrs. Melvin Lenkin

Irving H. and Eunice R. Leopold

Mrs. Scott Libby, Jr.

Lister Butler, Inc.

Lt. Gen. Samuel and Mrs. Elizabeth
Maddux

Manatee Fruit Company

Mr. and Mrs. Arthur Manella

Maria Mercedes D. Marina

Marking Device Association

May Department Stores Foundation

George S. May International Co.

Mr. and Mrs. C. Thomas May, Jr.

Susan McClatchy

Nan Tucker McEvoy

Dextra Baldwin McGonagle Foundation
Inc.

McMillen, Inc.

Robert L. McNeil, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Paul Mellon

Menil Foundation, Inc.

Joyce Mertz-Gilmore Foundation, Inc.

Metropolitan Life Foundation

Ruben F. Mettler

Mexican Border Veterans, Inc.

Herman Miller, Inc.

Ms. Barbara B. Millhouse

Monsanto Fund

Mr. and Mrs. Richard Morrill

Enid and Lester S. Morse, Jr.,
Foundation, Inc.

George E. Mueller

Ms. Jane S. Murray

NCR Foundation

National Geographic Society

National Research Council

National Space Club

Ms. Lacey T. Neuhaus

New York Community Trust

The New York Times

Mrs. Albert H. Newman

Mr. and Mrs. Stanton P. Nolan

Robert H. and Nancy Nooter

Ohrstom Foundation Inc.

The Pace Gallery of New York, Inc.

Lillian Nassau Palitz

O. Charles Palmer

Pepsi-Cola Company

Mr. and Mrs. George Pillsbury

Saul Poliak

Louis F. Polk, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. M. P. Potamkin

Prudential-Bache Securities

Mr. and Mrs. David S. Purvis

Quaker Oats Foundation

Lloyd E. Raport

Mrs. Louise Bell Reinhardt

Rexnord Foundation

R.J. Reynolds Industries, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. S. Dillon Ripley II

David Rockefeller

John D. and Sharon P. Rockefeller

Mr. and Mrs. Theodore C. Rogers

Samuel Rose

Mrs. John N. Rosekrans, Jr.

John N. Rosekrans, Jr.

J. William Rosenthal, M.D.

Mr. and Mrs. Milton F. Rosenthal

Arthur Ross

SUNY Research Foundation

Sanders & Associates

Sandoz, Inc.

Santa Fe Southern Pacific Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Charles W. Schmidt

H. James Schonblom

Matthew Schutz

Joseph E. Seagram & Sons, Inc.

Mrs. Mary P. Sears

Alan Sellars

Seoul Art Academy

Maryanna G. Shaw

Sherrill Foundation

Mrs. Caroline T. Simmons

L.J. Skaggs and Mary C. Skaggs
Foundation

Sylvia Gershenson Sloman

Sotheby’s, Inc.

Southern Financial Users Group

The Southways Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. James R. Sowell

Mr. and Mrs. Edson Spencer

Mr. and Mrs. Jerry I. Speyer

Squibb Corporation

The Standard Oil Company

Elizabeth M. Stanley

Ruth and Frank Stanton Fund
George Stavropoulos

Sidney Stern Memorial Trust
Stevens & Company, Inc.

Philip and Lynn Straus Foundation, Inc.

Stroheim & Romann, Inc.

TRW Foundation

The Taubman Company, Inc.

Bertrand L. Taylor

Dr. F. Christian Thompson

Tisch Foundation, Inc.

Paul and Ruth W. Tishman

Mrs. Mary Endicott Tree

U.S. Asia Institute

United Brotherhood of Carpenters and
Joiners

United States Fidelity & Guaranty Co.

Veterans of Foreign Wars—U.S.

The Castle Fund

VIPA Foundation

Waletzky Charitable Lead Trust

Jack Warner

Mrs. Paul L. Wattis

The Raymond John Wean Foundation

James E. Webb

Adam A. Weschler & Son, Inc.

Bobbie K. and Joseph Weinstein

Jerome Westheimer

Westinghouse Electric Fund

Whirly-Girls Scholarship Fund, Inc.

John Wiley & Sons, Inc.

Alfred S. Wilsey

Mrs. Charlotte Berry Winters

Warren R. Woodward

Virginia Bloedel Wright

Yoder Brothers, Inc.

Kyung Sook Yoon and Kyung Sug
Yoon

The Smithsonian wishes to acknowledge those members
of the Contributing Membership Program and of the
National Board of the Smithsonian Associates who
supported the renovation of the Great Hall of the
Smithsonian Institution Building for the new Information
Center. Donors of $1,000 or more are listed below. In
addition, we also want to recognize the important sup-
port of the Morris and Gwendolyn Cafritz Foundation.

National Board of the Smithsonian
Associates

The Allbritton Foundation

Mr. Arthur G. Altschul

Mr. and Mrs. William S. Anderson

Nancy and Philip Anschutz

Mr. and Mrs. Barry Bingham, Jr.

Mary Griggs Burke

James H. Clement

Jeffrey A. Cole

Mr. and Mrs. Charles D. Dickey, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Gaylord Donnelley

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Donner, Jr.

Mr. Marshall Field

Roger S. Firestone Foundation

Elizabeth and Keith Funston

Mr. and Mrs. Alfred C. Glassell, Jr.

Mr. W. L. Hadley and Phoebe P.
Griffin

Gordon Hanes

The Honorable William A. Hewitt

Mr. Gerald D. Hines

Mr. and Mrs. John N. Irwin, II

The Johnson Foundation Trust

S. Charles Kemp

In Memory of Mildred Lane Kemper

Mr. and Mrs. Seymour H. Knox, Ill

Mrs. Robert A. Magowan

Brooks and Hope B. McCormick
Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Arjay Miller

Johnie W. and Charles H. Murphy

Mr. and Mrs. Jack S. Parker

Mr. and Mrs. Sidney R. Petersen

Mr. and Mrs. George S. Pillsbury

Charles W. Schmidt

Harriet and Edson Spencer

The Ruth and Vernon Taylor
Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. James M. Walton

John C. Whitehead

Mr. and Mrs. T. Evans Wyckoff

Contributing Members

Mr. and Mrs. J. W. Abernethy, Jr.
Dorothy and Henry Abplanalp

W. Mike and Joanne Adams

Barbara, Michelle, and Michael Ageno
James and Marjorie Akins

Alexander and Alexander Services Inc.
William Homer Alexander

Mr. and Mrs. Richard T. Allan, Jr.
LaVerne O. Allen

Marcia Yamada Almassy

Mr. J. Donald Anderson

Mrs. Paul S. Anderson ( Virginia)
Sarah J. Anderson and Chris A. Hayner
Mr. and Mrs. William G. Anderson
Mr. Alfred C. Antoniewicz

Mr. and Mrs. E. Jerry Archbold, Jr.
Joe and Melinda Armstrong

Ms. Mary M. Ashmore

Mr. Grover W. Asmus

A. Kearney and Billie F. Atkinson
Mr. and Mrs. Douglas F. Attaway
Ernest and Francoise Attinger

Major and Mrs. Arne O. Aukland
Mrs. Theodore Babbitt

Mr. Jack R. Barensfeld
The Barra Foundation, Inc.

George and Carol Barquist

Mr. and Mrs. John Bartlett

Mr. and Mrs. John Leach Baum

Marilynn J. and Robert W. Bauman

Anthony and Anna Bazza

In Memory of Christen Michelson
Beattie

Mr. John R. Beaver

Mr. and Mrs. Robert L. Becker, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. James R. Bemis

Ayleene N. Bennett

Mrs. Harriet Benson

Dr. and Mrs. Charles E. Bickman, Jr.

Miss Eliza H. Bishop

Ms. Eugenia B. Bishop

Mrs. Alvin P. Bixler

Mr. John L. Black

Viola H. Blaine

Mr. and Mrs. Douglas L. Blair

Mr. Leigh B. Block

Ronald H. and Sandra D. Bloom

Eugene and Germaine Blossey

Dr. George P. and Bonnie Bogumill

Kirby and Lucyann Bohannan

Mrs. John Bowles

Colonel Donald S$. Bowman, USA Ret.

Ms. Rebecca A. Bowman
Dr. Daniel William Box, II
Mr. and Mrs. Donald B. Boylan
Ada A. Brown
Mr. and Mrs. Gerard E. Brundige
Judith and Frederick Buechner
Mrs. Cora S. Buell
Mr. and Mrs. C. W. Buhler
Mrs. R. M. Burgess
J. A. Burwell, M.D.
Mrs. Charles M. Butler
Mr. and Mrs. Lawrence Butner
Mr. and Mrs. William M. Cahn, Jr.
Joan and Curtis Calder
General and Mrs. Daniels Campbell
Mr. and Mrs. William D. Campbell
Lillian and John Cannaday
Mrs. Catherine B. Cantrell
Mr. and Mrs. Albert C. Carson
Alfred J. Carsten

and Arlene D. Carsten
Winifred T. Carter
Barbara A. Chandler
Anne L. Cheney
Mr. Jerry L. Childers
Dr. and Mrs. Robert C. C. Chiu
In Memory of John S. Churnetski
Chris Ross and Gladys Cofrin
Dr. and Mrs. David Cofrin
Edith Dee Cofrin
Ms. Mary Ann P. Cofrin
Mr. and Mrs. Paige W. Cofrin
Frank and Agnes Coleman
Ambassador Elinor G. Constable
In Memory of Mr. Thomas A. Corder
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph C. Cornwall
Colonel and Mrs. Albert A. Cory
Colonel Bentley Courtenay
Mr. and Mrs. Earle M. Craig, Jr.
Mr. Eugene E. Crockett
Mr. Frederick S. Crysler
Dr. Robert D. Cunningham
Dorothea Lane Cutts
Mr. Arthur J. Curry
Mr. Kent Cushenberry
Mr. and Mrs. John E. Dabbert
Ms. Mae E. Dahl
T. Giffin Daughtridge
Barry and Nora Davis
Charles and Gwen Davis
Mrs. Evelyn Y. Davis
John F. and Emily J. Davis

32

Mr. Robert Davis

Mr. Ronald K. Davis

Anna Outwater Day

Louis and Mildred DeLateur

Mr. and Mrs. Eugene J. Detmer, Jr.

Mr. James P. Devere

Lynda and Marvin Diamond

Robert Dickstein

Mr. and Mrs. Robert S. Donaghy

Monica A. Driscoll

Pierre S. duPont

Dr. John R. Durland

Mr. and Mrs. Robert E. Eberly

John and Mary Edwards

Harriet and Charles Eiwen

Mr. and Mrs. James H. Elder, Jr.

F. Herman Ellenberger

Master Gunnery Sergeant and Mrs.
Paul G. Ellis, USMC Ret.

Mr. and Mrs. Russell C. Ellis

Ward H Ellis

George T. and Wilma A. Elmore

Colonel Charles D. Eshelman

Mr. Robert Evans

Commander and Mrs. Thomas E. Fahy

Mr. Ed Fasko

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Mason Favor

Colonel and Mrs. J. J. Felmley

Mr. Nathan L. Ferris

Nicholas M. Ferriter

Mr. and Mrs. Charles B. Fiduccia

Mr. and Mrs. B. D. Fischer

Gordon J. Flesch

Dr. and Mrs. Roger C. Floren, II

Raymond and Elizabeth Fochtman

Mrs. Clifford Folger

Mr. Philip E. Forest

Morri Frankel

Mrs. Edwin Gaines Fullinwider

Eugene R. Gabriel

Mr. and Mrs. K. Georg Gabriel

Mr. and Mrs. Richard J. Gardiner

Malcolm and Ellen Garfink

Ms. Louise Grant Garland

Mr. and Mrs. Carl S. Gewirz

Mr. Joseph P. Ghilardi - Family

Mr. and Mrs. Kirkland H. Gibson

Mary Gibson and John T. Gibson

Mr. and Mrs. Wallace E. Giles

Dr. and Mrs. Sanford A. Glazer
and Scott

Herman and Ruby Glebe

Peter and Mary Gloger

Mr. and Mrs. John B. Goering

R. C. Goff

Aaron and Cecile Goldman

Mrs. Ted R. Goldsmith

Edward N. and Helen E. Gomberg

Mr. Albert H. Gordon

Ryan James Gorman
and Curtis Gorman Freeman

Mr. Milton M. Gottesman

Mr. James Gove

Mrs. Katherine Graham

Mr. and Mrs. Bernard M. Granam

Susan Heaney Gray

Mr. and Mrs. John B. Greene

Mrs. Judith Greene

Lindsey G. Griffith

Mr. and Mrs. Alton B. Grimes

Mrs. Helen Grossman

Mr. George T. Guernsey, IV

Mr. and Mrs. Victor W. Gumper
and Family

Florence L. Gussman

Mary and Robert P. Hackstaff

Theodore J. W. Hadraba

Mr. and Mrs. Najeeb E. Halaby

In Memory - Mary Benson Hall

Mr. and Mrs. Melville Hall

Mrs. Reda E. Hall

Olga Haller, M.D.

Allen Raphael Halper

Patrick L. Hames

Colonel and Mrs. William T.
Hamilton, Jr.

Mrs. Freda C. Hansen

Mr. and Mrs. Angus A. Hanson

Hugh and Sharon Hargrave

Ms. Helen Leale Harper, Jr.

Leslie S. Harrold, M.D.

Mrs. Enid A. Haupt

John and Teri Hayes
Brian, John Michael, Catherine

Mrs. Lita Annenberg Hazen

Mr. and Mrs. Patrick Healy, III

R. D. and Nancy Poe Heckel

Lieutenant Colonel, USAF Ret. and
Mrs. Felder F. Heflin

Robert M. and Gladys M. Henry

Mrs. Charles E. Hiatt

Mrs. Gloria Hidalgo

Hannah Mae Schaefer Hinton
and Neal Jay Hinton

Henry Clay Hofheimer, II

Mr. and Mrs. C. H. Hogan

Mr. William P. Holcombe

Florence Hartman Hollister

Ms. Elma G. Holmes

Richard W. and Alice H. Hook

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph F. Housek

Charles C. and Doris C. Houston

Mr. and Mrs. Peter D. Humleker, Jr.

H. Jeanetta Hunse

Mrs. Woerner Hunsicker

Mr. R. Bruce Hunter

Richard and Elizabeth Hunter

Sandra and Albert Newland
Hutchinson

George and Joy Irving

The Honorable and Mrs. John N.
Irwin, II

Mr. William P. Jambor, Jr.

Donald E. and Irene J. Jansen

Margaret, Joanne, Suzanne
and William Jeffrey

Mr. and Mrs. George F. Jewett, Jr.

Elsie Moog Johnson

Mr. Woodrow C. Johnson

Mr. Brian L. Jones

Mrs. Sydney R. Jones

Ruth and Jacob Kainen

James A. Shannon L. Keene

John E. Kemper

The Honorable and Mrs. W. John
Kenney

Mr. A. Atwater Kent, Jr.

Dr. and Mrs. Louis J. Kettel

Mr. and Mrs. Charles Lloyd Kettler

Zohrab and Lois Khatchadourian

The Honorable and Mrs. Randolph A.
Kidder

Gary and Deborah Killen

Mrs. F. G. Kingsley

Mr. Austin Kiplinger

Mr. and Mrs. F. M. Kirby

Mr. E. C. Kirkpatrick

Joanne and Ira Kirshbaum Family
Foundation

Arnold I. Kisch
and Victoria L. J. Daubert

Dr. and Mrs. Eugene I. Knez

Mr. and Mrs. William J. Kollar, Sr.

Mr. Stephen P. Koster

Rose C. and Harold H. Kramer

In Memory of Virgil Ross Krombar

Mr. and Mrs. Otto Kruse

Max J. and Ivah A. Kukler

Wing Kwongtse

Captain and Mrs. James Spencer
Lacock

Lewis K. and Elizabeth Land

Mr. Richard F. Langston

Mr. Sartian Lanier

Mr. and Mrs. Anthony A. Lapham

Ms. Agatha Larson

Mr. and Mrs. Alan S. Lavine

Dr. and Mrs. Jack M. Layton

Mr. and Mrs. C. W. Ledebur

In Memory of Richard Theodore Legler

Dr. Maury Leibovitz

Mrs. Harry Lepman
and Mr. Joshua M. Lepman

Mr. and Mrs. John H. Leslie

Sydney and Frances Lewis

Mr. and Mrs. Alfred Boyd Lichtenstein

Mr. and Mrs. George Lill, II

Dr. and Mrs. M. B. Listerud

Robert J. Lockridge

Rebecca Pollard Logan

Mr. Nicholas Lorusso

Ms. Doris J. Lothrop

Mr. Andrew Leo Love

Mr. and Mrs. LaRue R. Lutkins

Commander Herbert E. Lutz

Mr. and Mrs. John E. Lutz, Il

Mr. Edmund C. Lynch, Jr.

Maurice B. and Alice J. Lynch

Rear Admiral and Mrs. Harvey E. Lyon

Mr. Jim R. Lyons

Lieutenant General and Mrs. Sam
Maddux, Jr.

Ralph K. and Bette D. Madway
Foundation

Mrs. Robert A. Magowan

Dr. and Mrs. Leo J. Malone

Barbara K. and Patrick J. Mango

Mr. and Mrs. Daniel Marks

In Memory of Frank M. and Margaret
Wilson Masters

Billie G. Matheson, Colonel USAF (Ret.)

Wendy and Larry Matre

Dorothy Nobuko Matsui

Lloyd Z. and Laurlee Rose Maudlin

Mr. and Mrs. Gordon W. McBride

Mr. Donald E. McCallister

Barbara Mott McCarthy

Jeane, Ann Marie, and Wendy
McCarthy

Hugh and Pollyanna McCoy

Mr. Jack H. McCreery

Mr. and Mrs. Matthew B. McCullough

Mr. and Mrs. John S. McDaniel, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph McEwen

Robert L. and Peggy Lynn McGowen

Mr. J. S. Mcllhenny

Mr. Robert M. McKinney

Dr. and Mrs. John L. McLucas

Richard A. McReynolds, M.S., M.D.

Ms. Mary McVay

Gilbert and Jaylee Mead

Mr. David L. Melvin

Dr. and Mrs. Henry S. Mika

Colonel and Mrs. James E. Miller

Mr. and Mrs. Kenneth K. Millholland

Mr. and Mrs. George H. Milton

Dr. W. Raymond Mize, Jr.

Mr. Dexter N. Mohr and
Ms. MaryLoretta Bradford-Mohr

Mr. and Mrs. Frank A. Montague

Esther Sinnott Moore

Mr. Thomas H. Moore

Mr. and Mrs. Robert L. Morelli

Mrs. Betty J. Morgan

Harold F. Morgan

McLendon G. Morris

Dr. P. Steven Mote
Mr. and Mrs. John C. Mott

Gary Louis Mueller M.D. and Carolyn
Regena Mueller R.N., M.S.N.

Clifford W. and Armarie B. Murphy

Daniel W. Murray and John M. Murray

Miss Janet H. Murray

Gary A. Murrell

Peter G. and Mary M. Muth

Paul F. Naughton

Mr. and Mrs. Reynold Nebel

Mr. and Mrs. Marshall G. Newman

Richard and Dorothy Niles

Mr. and Mrs. Robert A. Nitto

Mr. Allen Nixon

Mr. and Mrs. J. Doyle Norris

In Memory of Edith Weber Norton
1906-1987

Laura Cunningham O’Brien

Mr. Robert O’Brien

Patricia and Robert Ochsner

Mr. and Mrs. Louis T. Olom

Mrs. John O’Master

Jim O'Neil

Mr. Oscar Orringer

Mr. and Mrs. James M. Osbourn

Dr. J. D. Patterson

Mr. William R. Patterson

Ms. Helen Ann Patton

The Honorable and Mrs. G. Burton
Pearson

Mr. J. Roy Pennell, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Ferman W. Perry

Mr. George J. Petersen

Mr. and Mrs. Sidney Petersen

Mrs. Charles Emory Phillips

Laurence and Norma Pike

Monee Paulson Pike

Guy and Barbara Pitts

Ms. Diane J. Plotts

Mr. Zigmund J. Podell

William and Sylvia Poesch

Janice Popp

Mr. and Mrs. Frank C. Price, Jr.

Christine A, Radway

Marion Brown Rafferty

Sylvia and Coleman Raphael

lan and Elizabeth Ravenscroft

Mr. G. W. Recktenwald

Thomas Michael Reed

Mr. and Mrs. William B. Reese

Mr. and Mrs. Jan C. Reynierse

Charles W. and Blanche S. Richards

Ms. Nancy J. Robertson

Mr. and Mrs. George A. Robeson, Jr.

William Henry Roennau, Lieutenant
Colonel USAF, Ret.

Dr. and Mrs. Richard G. Rogers, Jr.

Raymond and Lois Rose

Dr. Patricia L. Rosenbaum

Mr. John R. Royall

John W. Runyon, Jr.

Dr. Edward C. Ruth

Mr. and Mrs. William R. Salomon

Albert and Thelma Sbar

Mr. and Mrs. J. Vincent Schlegel

Dr. and Mrs. Lloyd B. Schnuck, Jr.

Marie and Charles Schreyer

Mr. and Mrs. Royal M. Scott

Mrs. Norris Shealy
and Ms. Pamela Best

In Memory of Howard Hoyt
Shiras, M.D.

Mr. Theodore J. Shively

Mr. and Mrs. Charles D. Shucart

Daniel J. and Elizabeth B. Siglin

Mrs. John Farr Simmons

Mr. and Mrs. Philip B. Simonds

Alice Hester Simpson

Mrs. Joseph B. Simpson
Dr. and Mrs. Raymond A. Skeehan
Richard and Peggy Sloan
Mr. and Mrs. Albert A. Smith, Jr.
Mr. Richard O. Smith
Robert and Mary Snook
Dr. and Mrs. Harry R. Snyder
Mr. and Mrs. Michael R. Sonnenreich
Everett and Margaret Southwick
Catherine and Ralph Stayer
Miss Marilyn L. Steinbright
and Mrs. Edith C. Steinbright
Mr. and Mrs. Ellis M. Stephens
Mr. and Mrs. Robert B. Stephens
Robert L. and Helen B. Stern
Elizabeth W. Stout
David G. Stuart and Dale G. Stuart
Mrs. Dorothy Stubnitz
Dr. and Mrs. William A. Sullivan
Mr. Peter B. Swaner
Mr. and Mrs. Albert A. Symonds
Bruce and Mavis Talbot
Peter and Janice Talluto
Mr. Milton R. Tanner
James and Alexandra Tateyama
Aubrey and Jane Taylor
Mr. and Mrs. Frank A. Therrell
Cathleen M. Thomas, 1959-1986
in memoriam
Frank and Sheila Thompson
Libbie Moody Thompson
Mr. and Mrs. Richard L. Tinker
Mr. and Mrs. Paul Tishman
Ms. Marana W. Tost
Mrs. William C. Treuhaft
Mr. and Mrs. F. Earl Turner
Mrs. Milton Turner—
Dr. Stephen R. Turner
Miranda Holmes Turner
Mr. and Mrs. W. Alfred Turner
Mr. W. T. Turso
Kathryn and Blair Tyson
Emily A. Ulmer, M.D.
William G. Vansant, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Lastie P. Vincent, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. David Tutherly Walker
Joseph E. Walker
Mr. and Mrs. George E. Warner
Mollye-Gwynne Gregor Watkins
Edwin R. Watts,
in Memory of Velma L. Watts
Mr. and Mrs. V. Phillips Weaver
Mr. Peter M. Wege
Mrs. Maxine D. Weiss-Krause
and Mr. Paul S. Krause
James and Ruth West
Mr. David C. Wharrier

Colonel and Mrs. Grover C. White, Jr.

Peter and Donna White
George M. Whitfield
Mr. E. F. Wildfong
Mr. and Mrs. Louis Wilner
Mr. and Mrs. Morton H. Wilner
Dr. and Mrs. Ralph Wilson, Jr.
Harry Winifield

and Florine Frames Brown
Mr. John W. Winn
Dr. Margaret C. Winston
Mr. and Mrs. David Wintermann
Colonel and Mrs. William F. Winzurk
Sheila Z. Wood, O.D.
Dwight E. and Margaret Y.

Woodbridge
Mrs. David O. Woodbury
Mr. and Mrs. Frank Woods
Harriet and Norman Wymbs
Virginia Filson Wynn
Roland and Violet Yap

Smithsonian Contributing Members

The Contributing Members of the Smithsonian National
Associates support the Institution’s work through annual

contributions.

The James Smithson Society was created in 1977 to
encourage and recognize major gifts to the Institution.
The Society, which is the highest order of Contributing
Membership, is comprised of Annual ($2,000) and Life
membership categories. Extraordinary contributions to
the Smithsonian are recognized through the Society’s
Founder Medal award and Life membership.

The Smithsonian gratefully acknowledges here the gen-
erous support of the James Smithson Society and the Pa-
tron members ($1,200) of the Contributing Membership

Program.

James Smithson Society Life Members

Mrs. Anni Albers

Mr. Joseph V. Alhadeff

Mr. and Mrs. Joe L. Allbritton

Mr. David K. Anderson

Mr. and Mrs. William S$. Anderson

Mr. Ronald P. Anselmo

Mr. Scott R. Anselmo

Dr. Herbert R. Axelrod

Mr. and Mrs. Richard R. Bains

Mr. and Mrs. F. John Barlow

Mrs. Frederic C. Bartlett

Mr. and Mrs. Preston R. Bassett

Mrs. Donald C. Beatty

Mrs. Henry C. Beck, Jr.

Honorable and Mrs. Ralph E. Becker

Mr. and Mrs. Clay P. Bedford

Mrs. Edward B. Benjamin

Mr. and Mrs. John A. Benton

Dr. and Mrs. William B. Berry

Mrs. Gerald M. Best

Dr. and Mrs. B. N. Bhat

Mr. Richard A. Bideaux

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Blauner

Mr. Leigh B. Block

Mr. and Mrs. William B. Boyd

Mr. Lee Bronson

Mrs. David K. E. Bruce

Dr. Ruth D. Bruun

Mrs. George E. Burch

Mrs. Arthur J. Burstein

Mrs. Barnet Burstein

Mrs. Hyman Burstein

Mr. and Mrs. Maxwell Burstein

Dr. and Mrs. Benjamin H.
Caldwell, Jr.

Major General and Mrs. Daniel Stone
Campbell

Mrs. Catherine B. Cantrell

Mr. and Mrs. Lawson J. Cantrell, Jr.

Mr. Allan Caplan

Mr. and Mrs. George H. Capps

Dr. and Mrs. Robert C, C, Chiu

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas G. Cleveland

Mr. Robert L. Coleman

Dr. and Mrs. George L. Compton

Mrs. Howard F. Cook

Dr. and Mrs. Roger D. Cornell

Dr. and Mrs. E. J. Cunningham

Dr. and Mrs. Bruce E. Dahrling, II

Mr. John R. Doss

Mr. and Mrs. Willard D. Dover
Mr. Edward R. Downe, Jr.

Dr. Dale B. Dubin

Mr. And Mrs. Willis H. Dupont
Mr. Joseph M., Erdelac

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas M. Evans
Dr. and Mrs. Dan Feriozi

Mr. and Mrs. Walter B. Ford, II
Dr. and Mrs. Phillip Frost

Mrs. Edwin Fullinwider

Dr. and Mrs. Lawrence Andrew Funt
Mr. and Mrs. George Garfield
Dr. and Mrs. Lamont W. Gaston
Mr. Kirkland H. Gibson

Mr. and Mrs. C. Paul Gilson
Mr. and Mrs. Stephen P. Gott
Dr. and Mrs. Wilbur J. Gould
Mr. Jerome L. Greene

Mr. and Mrs. Chaim Gross

Mr. and Mrs. Melville Hall

Dr. and Mrs. Armand Hammer
Mrs. Richard Harkness

Mr. and Mrs. Don C. Harrold
Mrs. Enid A. Haupt

Mrs. Lita Annenberg Hazen

Mr. and Mrs. Wayne C. Hazen
Mr. Herbert Waide Hemphill, Jr.
Mrs. Francis Tracy Henderson
Mr. and Mrs. Edward L. Henning
Mrs. Joseph Hirshhorn

Mrs. James Stewart Hooker

Mr. Paul Horgan

Dr. and Mrs. Howard IThrig

Mr. and Mrs. George H. Jacobus
Mr. and Mrs. Jacob Kainen

Mr. and Mrs. Donald E. Kastner
Mr. and Mrs. Louis Kaufman
Dr. and Mrs. Arthur A. Kirk
Mr. and Mrs. Peter M. Klein
Mr. and Mrs. Samuel W. Koffler
Dr. and Mrs, David Landau

Mr. and Mrs. Lewis Kurt Land
Dr. Maury Leibovitz

Mr. and Mrs. L. E. Leininger
Mr. and Mrs. Harry E. Lennon
Mrs. Sara L. Lepman

Mr. and Mrs. John Levey

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Levey

Mr. and Mrs. Sydney Lewis

Ms. Betty H. Llewellyn

33
Mrs. John A. Logan

Mr. and Mrs. Jack Lord

Mrs. Louis Lozowick

Mrs. Robert A. Magowan

Dr. and Mrs. Leo J. Malone

Mr. and Mrs. Richard A. Manoogian
Mr. John A. Masek

Mr. Vincent Melzac

Mr. Jack L. Messman

Mrs. Sandy Levey Miller

Mr. and Mrs. W. A. Moldermaker
Mrs. Edmund C. Monell

Dr. and Mrs. Walter A. H. Mosmann
Mr. Fredric Mueller

Mr. and Mrs. Joe H. Mullins

Dr. and Mrs. Marvin Murray

Mr. Mortimer L. Neinken

Dr. and Mrs. James Brooks Newbill
Mr. and Mrs. Henry K. Ostrow
Mrs. Rudolf Pabst

Honorable and Mrs. G. Burton Pearson
Mr. and Mrs. Wallace R. Persons
Mr. and Mrs. Edward M. Pflueger
Mrs. John A. Pope

Mrs. Abraham Rattner

Mr. John P. Remensnyder

Mr. and Mrs. Ralph C. Rinzler
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas M. Roberts
Honorable Martin J. Roess

Dr. and Mrs. Richard G. Rogers, Jr.
Mrs. Helen Goodwin Rose

Mr. Arthur Ross

Mrs. Edgar L. Rossin

Mrs. Howard J. Sachs

Mr. and Mrs. Peter G. Sachs

Mrs. Arthur M. Sackler

Mr. Harry I. Saul

Mr. and Mrs. Janos Scholz
Honorable Hugh Scott

Mr. and Mrs. Morton Silverman
Mr. and Mrs. Edward J. Slattery
Mrs. Helen Farr Sloan

Mr. and Mrs. Robert H. Smith
Mr. and Mrs. Sherwood Smith
Mrs. Raphael Soyer

Mrs. Otto Spaeth

Mr. and Mrs. Earl J. Spangler

Mr. Stuart M. Speiser

Mrs. Benjamin Stack

Mr. and Mrs. Harvey G. Stack
Mr. and Mrs. Norman Stack

Dr. Richard F, S. Starr

Mr. and Mrs. Norman H. Stavisky
Dr. and Mrs. Leo F. Stornelli

Mr. and Mrs. E. Hadley Stuart, Jr.
Dr. and Mrs. Hans Syz

Mrs. Katherine S. Sznycer

Doctors Yen Tan

Mr. and Mrs. Vernon L. Taylor, Jr.
Dr. and Mrs. David J. Tepper

Mr. Richard W. Thomssen

Mr. Bardyl L. Tirana

Mrs. Milton Turner

Dr. and Mrs. Adolfo Villalon

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Vojvoda

Dr. and Mrs. Francis $. Walker
Mr. and Mrs. C. C. Wang

Mr. Richard W. Weatherhead

Mr. Thomas E. Whiteley

Mr. Leonard J. Wilkinson

Mrs. Victoria Wilkinson

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas J. Williams
Mr. and Mrs. A. M. Withers

Mr. and Mrs. Laurence C. Witten, II
Mrs. David O. Woodbury

Mr. Stanley Woodward

Mr. and Mrs. James Wu

Mr. and Mrs. Barry Yampol

34

James Smithson Society Annual
Members

Mr. W. Mike Adams

Mr. and Mrs. Arthur G. Altschul

Colonel John S. Anderson

Mr. and Mrs. William G. Anderson

Mr. and Mrs. Philip F. Anschutz

Mr. and Mrs. Jack R. Aron

Ms. Mary M. Ashmore

Mr. and Mrs. John Bartlett

Mr. and Mrs. Perry R. Bass

Mr. Henry C. Beck

Mr. and Mrs. James H. Berkey

Mr. and Mrs. Barry Bingham, Jr.

Mr. John L. Black

Honorable and Mrs. Robert O. Blake

Ms. Maritha Blalock

Mr. and Mrs. Allen A. H. Blessman

Mr. and Mrs. William W.
Boeschenstein

Mr. and Mrs. John F. Bookout

Dr. Harold M. Boslow

Mrs. John Bowles

Colonel Donald $. Bowman

Mrs. John W. Bowman

Mr. and Mrs. Bob Brinkerhoff

Mr. Alfred Pope Brooks

Mr. Keith S. Brown

Mrs. Jackson Burke

Mrs. Poe Burling

Dr. J. A. Burwell

Mr. and Mrs. Lawrence Butner

Dr. Cesar A. Caceres

Mr. and Mrs. William Cafritz

Mr. and Mrs. William D. Campbell

Mrs. Winifred Carter

Mr. Frank T. Cary

Mr. and Mrs. Cummins
Catherwood, Jr.

Honorable and Mrs. Henry E.
Catto, Jr.

Honorable and Mrs. Robert Horne
Charles

Mr. and Mrs. James H. Clement

Mr. David L. Coffin

Mr. and Mrs. Melvin S. Cohen

Mr. and Mrs. Jeffrey A. Cole

Mr. and Mrs. William T. Coleman

Mr. Joseph E. Connor

Mr. Richard P. Cooley

Mrs. Raymond E. Cox

Mr. John D. Crow

Dr. James H. Curl

Mr. Arthur J. Curry

Mr. Kent T. Cushenberry

Mrs. Keith Davis

Mr. and Mrs. Stanley R. Day

Mr. and Mrs. Morse G. Dial, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Charles J. Dibona

Mr. and Mrs. Charles D. Dickey, Jr.

Mr. Norman L. Dobyns

Mr. and Mrs. Gaylord Donnelley

Mr. and Mrs. Robert J. Donner

Mr. and Mrs. Leslie Douglas

Mr. and Mrs. Robert W. Duemling

Ms. Sara Dwyer

Mr. and Mrs. Leroy Eakin

Mr. Robert E. Eberly

Mr. and Mrs. Dean S. Edmonds

Mr. and Mrs. J. A. Elkins, Jr.

Mrs. Eric Eweson

Mr. and Mrs. Sheldon W. Fantle

Mr. and Mrs. Marshall Field

Honorable and Mrs. William H. G.
Fitzgerald

Mrs. Julius Fleischmann

Mrs. Clifford Folger

Mr. John Dulin Folger

Ms. Louise Dodd Gerken

Mr. and Mrs. Bert A. Getz

Mr. and Mrs. John T. Gibson

Mr. and Mrs. Alfred C. Glassell, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Henry H. Goldberg

Mrs. Ted R. Goldsmith

Mr. Thomas J. Grady

Mr. and Mrs. John B. Greene

Dr. H. D. Green

Mr. and Mrs. Gilbert C. Greenway

Mr. and Mrs. W. L. Hadley Griffin

Mr. and Mrs. Alton B. Grimes

Mr. and Mrs. Gilbert Hahn, Jr.

Honorable and Mrs. Najeeb Halaby

Mr. William A. Hall, Ill

Mr. and Mrs. Kingsley W. Hamilton

Mrs. W. Averell Harriman

Mr. J. Warren Harris

Honorable and Mrs. Parker T. Hart

Dr. John T. Hayes

Mr. Joseph H. Hazen

Honorable William A. Hewitt

Mr. and Mrs. Gerald D. Hines

Mr. Edwin K. Hoffman

Mr. and Mrs. Wallace R. Holladay

Mr. and Mrs. George F. Hoover

Mrs. Lee Hunter

Mr. R. Bruce Hunter

Mr. R. L. Ireland, III

Honorable and Mrs. John N. Irwin, II

Mr. and Mrs. George D. Jagels

Mr. and Mrs. George F. Jewett, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Robert E. Johnson

Mr. and Mrs. Samuel C. Johnson

Mr. Stanley B. Jones

Mr. J. E. Jonsson

Mr. and Mrs. B. Franklin Kahn

Mrs. Garfield Kass

Mrs. George C. Keiser

Mr. James M. Kemper, Jr.

Mr. S. Charles Kemp

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Keresey

Mrs. Virginia K. Kettering

Honorable and Mrs. Randolph A.
Kidder

Mr. and Mrs. F. M. Kirby

Mr. E. C. Kirkpatrick

Mr. James M. Kline

Honorable and Mrs. Philip M.
Klutznick

Mr. and Mrs. Seymour H. Knox, III

Mr. Seymour H. Knox

Ms. Elizabeth G. Kossow

Mr. and Mrs. Edward C. Kubik

Mr. and Mrs. James S. Lacock

Mr. Melvin F. Lee

Mrs. S. K. Legare

Mr. Robert Lehrman

Honorable William Leonhart

Mr. and Mrs. Lester B. Loo

Mr. Edmund C. Lynch, Jr.

Mr. F. E. Mars, Jr.

Mrs. John F. Mars

Honorable and Mrs. William McC.
Martin, Jr.

Mr. Frederick P. Mascioli

Mr. and Mrs. Edward J. Mathias

Mr. and Mrs. Brooks McCormick

Honorable and Mrs. Robert M.
McKinney

Mr. and Mrs. Alexander K.
McLanahan

Mrs. Henry S. McNeil

Mr. and Mrs. Robert L. McNeil, Jr.

Dr. Richard A. McReynolds

Mr. and Mrs. Gilbert D. Mead

Mr. and Mrs. Henry W. Meers

Mr. Paul Mellon

Dr. Ruben F. Mettler

Mr. and Mrs. Arjay Miller

Dr. W. Raymond Mize, Jr.

Mr. Michael A. Moran

Mr. John W. Morrison

Mr. and Mrs. Charles H. Murphy, Jr.

Dr. Josephine L. Murray

Clifford M. Nelson

Dr. and Mrs. Stanton P. Nolan

Commander Lester E. Ogilvy

Mr. Ricard R. Ohrstrom

Mr. and Mrs. Lawrence B. Olds

Honorable Daniel Parker

Mr. and Mrs. Jack S. Parker

Mrs. Jefferson Patterson

Ms. Helen Ann Patton

Mr. and Mrs. Sidney Petersen

Mrs. Charles Emory Phillips

Mr. and Mrs. Charles M. Pigott

Mr. and Mrs. George S. Pillsbury

Mr. and Mrs. Malcolm Price

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph A. Rice

Mr. H. Smith Richardson, Jr.

Mrs. Dorothy H. Roberts

Honorable and Mrs. John D.
Rockefeller, IV

Mr. Laurance S. Rockefeller

Dr. and Mrs. Milton L. Rock

Mr. Francis C. Rooney, Jr.

Mr. John R. Royall

Dr. and Mrs. Larry Saiers

Mr. and Mrs. William R. Salomon

Mr. and Mrs. B. Francis Saul

Mr. and Mrs. Charles W. Schmidt

Mr. and Mrs. Edwin Schreiber

Mrs. George M. Seignious, II

Mr. W. W. Sidney

Mr. A. R, Jarvis Sinclair

Mr. and Mrs. David E. Skinner

Mr. and Mrs. Gerald Slawecki

Mr. and Mrs. Michael Sonnenreich

Mr. and Mrs. Edson W. Spencer

Mr. and Mrs. Malcolm T. Stamper

Mr. Arthur J. Stegall, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Sydney Stein, Jr.

Dr. and Mrs. William A. Sullivan

Mr. Bruce G. Sundlun

Mr. Craig D. Sutherland

Mr. D. Reginald Tibbetts

Mr. and Mrs. Walter R. Truland

Mr. and Mrs. C. Woods Vest, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. L. von Hoffmann

Mr. and Mrs. James M. Walton

Honorable and Mrs, Thomas J.
Watson, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Raymond J. Wean, Jr.

Mr. Leigh R. Weiner

Mrs. Keith S. Wellin

Honorable John C. Whitehead

Mr. John W. Winn

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas P. Wolf

Mrs. Gay F. Wray

Mr. and Mrs. T. Evans Wyckoff

Mr. Norman E. Wymbs

Mr. Bernard J. Young

Patron Members

Honorable and Mrs. James E. Akins
Mrs. Paul S. Anderson

Mr. John Baum

Mr. and Mrs. Steve Bay

Mr. and Mrs. Townsend Burden, III
Mr. and Mrs. Edward A. Burka
Mr. E. T. Byram
Mr. Milton Cades

Mr. Donald E. Callahan

Mr. S. Harold Cohen

Colonel J. M. Compton

Mr. Charles Alfred Davis

Mr. Lowell Deyoung

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas I. Dolan
Mr. and Mrs. Russell Ellis
Mrs. J. Gardiner

Mr. and Mrs. Daniel D. Gilbert
Mr. Theodore J. Hadraba, Jr.
Ms. Helen Leale Harper

Mr. John Ippolito

Dr. Charles Joseph

Mr. and Mrs. Charles J. Kennedy

Ms. G. E. Lemos

Mr. and Mrs. J. W. Levan
Mr. Gayle W. Lichtenstein
Mrs. Jean Chisholm Lindsey
Mrs. Eunice K. Lipkowitz

Mr. and Mrs, Terence McAuliffe
Mr. and Mrs. Peter Monrose
Mr. Peter R. Monrose

Mr. David R. Montz

Mr. Harold F. Morgan

Mr. Anthony John Mourek
Mr. and Mrs. James Mulshine
Mr. Donald O. Noehre

Mr. Robert C. Ochsner

Mrs. Mary J. Papworth

Mr. and Mrs. Laurence B. Pike
Mrs. Helen G. Price

Mr. Thomas D. Rogers

Mr. Arthur N. Ryan

Ms. Mickey Sanborn

Mr. C. W. Scott

Ms. M. L. Sibley

Mr. and Mrs. M. Silverman
Mr. and Mrs. Sanford Slavin
Mr. William C. Sterling, Jr.
Mr. Samuel D. Turner

Mr. and Mrs. Frank L. Wright

wa
Financial Report

Ann R. Leven, Treasurer

The year was highlighted by the opening of the Enid A.
Haupt Garden and the new museum complex in the
Smithsonian’s Quadrangle. This new museum complex,
to be completed at a total project cost of $73.2 million,
houses the National Museum of African Art and the
Arthur M. Sackler Gallery, a museum of Asian and Near
Eastern Art. Also included in the complex is the S. Dillon
Ripley Center, occupied by the Smithsonian Institution
Traveling Exhibition Service, International Activities, and
the Resident and National Associate Programs.

The complex, begun in June 1983, is funded with a
combination of public and private monies. The federal
government’s $36.6 million has been matched with $36.6
million in private funds pledged and paid over a five-year
period. The Institution can proudly boast that its newest
capital additions to the Mall are fully paid for with no
remaining debt, a rare occurrence among museums today
and a tribute to Secretary Ripley’s administration, which
initiated this undertaking.

Operations

The Institution operated on solid ground for the fiscal
year. Federal appropriations were sufficient to allow for
the continuation and enhancement of major programs.
Federal dollars are the principal source of core support
for the Institution’s continuing programs of research, ex-
hibitions, education, and collections management as well
as related administrative and support services.

New initiatives funded by federal monies included
making the facilities’ programs in the Quadrangle fully
operational. Important scientific programs in biological
diversity and tropical forest biology received support.
The purchase of the Duke Ellington Collection for the
National Museum of American History stands out among
the many notable acquisitions funded with federal funds.

For the fiscal year ending September 30, 1987, federal
appropriations initially provided $183,920,000 to fund
ongoing operations. Subsequently, a supplemental appro-
priation, primarily for pay increases and the cost of the
new Federal Employees Retirement System, increased the
total to $188,974,000, which was $19.6 million higher
than in fiscal year 1986. A total of $343,000, less than
two-tenths of 1 percent of the year’s appropriations, was
returned to the Treasury at year end as uncommitted sal-
aries and expenses for fiscal year 1987.

The Institution also benefited from specific project
grants and contracts totaling $15,873,000 from govern-
ment agencies and bureaus. These monies continue to

36

constitute an important source of research funding, most
notably for the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory
and the National Museum of Natural History National
Museum of Man. The grantors gain access to Smithson-
ian expertise and resources, particularly in astrophysics
and biological studies.

Trust funds, that is nonappropriated income from
gifts, grants, endowments, current investments, and reve-
nue-producing activities, provided supplemental base sup-
port as well as that extra margin for experimentation and
bold initiatives. In this context, $1,205,000 of net trust
income was specifically allocated for acquisitions,
$2,700,000 for special exhibitions, $2,839,000 for fel-
lowships, $2,300,000 for scholarly research, and
$550,000 for educational outreach. These funds are in
addition to regularly budgeted trust funds for similar pur-
poses at the bureau level.

Examples of new ventures funded by nonappropriated
funds during fiscal 1987 include the establishment of the
Regents Publication Fund, symposia on the Bicentennial
of the Constitution, opening events for the Quadrangle,
development of needed financial systems, and an exhibi-
tion celebrating the fiftieth anniversary of Superman. Ex-
penditures necessary to generate trust revenues, such as
those for publishing Smithsonian Magazine, contribute in
and of themselves to fulfilling James Smithson’s mandate
to increase and diffuse knowledge.

Gross Net Net

Source Revenues Income Income
of Funds ($1,000s) ($1,000s) (%)
Federal

Appropriation 188,974 188,974 72
Government

Grants and

Contracts 15,873 15,873 6
All Trust Sources 195,080 Sisis) 2
Total Available for

Operations 399927, 262,086 100

Trust fund income was sufficient to restore the unres-
tricted trust fund balance to its previous level of approxi-
mately $5,000,000. The fund balance had dropped to
$2,044,000 in fiscal year 1986 with the Regents’ permis-
sion as the Institution funded the purchase of two major
collections in connection with the anticipated opening of
the Quadrangle museums. The unrestricted trust fund
balance provides the working capital base for the
Institution.

An amount of $3,000,000 from revenues generated by
the Institution’s business activities was transferred to en-
dowment, in keeping with past practices aimed at
strengthening this important asset. In addition, signifi-
cant reserves were set aside to assure timely completion
of two major construction projects now under way: the
underground passageway between the Freer Gallery and
the Quadrangle and the new restaurant addition to the
National Air and Space Museum. Construction at the
National Air and Space Museum is being funded solely
with trust funds utilizing an $11,000,000 loan from the
Riggs Bank, supplemented by monies made available
from auxiliary activity revenues.

Fund-raising Results

Restricted gifts and grants from individuals, foundations,
and corporations for operations increased by 57 percent
over the previous year, reflecting an increased emphasis
on fund-raising activities within the Institution. These
monies, as designated by the donors, were used variously
to supplement unrestricted trust funds or to fund projects
for which institutional support was unavailable. The
Smithsonian is especially grateful to all who contributed.
A fuller detailing of contributions may be found in the
section “Benefactors of the Smithsonian Institution in
1987.” Particular mention is made here of two volunteer
groups associated with the Institution, The Women’s
Committee of the Smithsonian Associates and the Smith-
son Society, for their continuing sponsorship of impor-
tant initiatives.

The most wide-reaching fund-raising campaign since
that undertaken for the Quadrangle was launched within
the Smithsonian family in fiscal year 1987 for monies to
renovate the Great Hall of the Castle and to construct a
Visitors’ Information Center in that space. This center
will include a reception area featuring a pan-institutional
exhibition, maps and models detailing the location of
Smithsonian museums and other popular attractions in
the nation’s capital, and two orientation theaters. In all,
approximately $3,200,000 has been raised or pledged.
More than $1,000,000 in gifts from the Smithsonian Na-
tional Associates will be used to match a $1,000,000
grant from the Pew Foundation and $500,000 from the
Kresge Foundation designated for this project.

Acquisitions and Deaccessioning

The Institution uses multiple sources for the purchase of
new collection items—limited federal funds, the above-
mentioned monies made available from unrestricted trust
funds, restricted gifts, and monies generated by the sale
of deaccessioned items. During fiscal year 1987, this last
source played an important role in securing for the Na-
tional Museum of American Art and the Hirshhorn Mu-
seum and Sculpture Garden important additions to their
collections.

At the National Museum of American Art, the sale of
a seventeenth-century Italian painting by Guercino
brought proceeds of $1.45 million. This was the primary
source of funds for the purchase of the Hemphill Collec-
tion, an important collection of folk art. Similarly, the
Hirshhorn sales made possible the purchase of a sculp-
ture by Jasper Johns, a 1919 Man Ray spray painting,
and a more recent work by Lucian Freud.

Construction and Plant Funds

For the most part, Smithsonian buildings are properties
of the federal government under the control of the Board
of Regents. Each year, in addition to its appropriation
for salaries and other operating expenses, the Institution
receives appropriations for the restoration and renovation
of these facilities and for specific new construction. In
fiscal year 1987, $19,070,000 was appropriated for these
purposes. A separate federal appropriation of $2,500,000
was provided specifically for the National Zoological
Park, primarily for the completion of the Olmsted
Walkway.

During the course of the year, work commenced on
fire detection and suppression systems at several mu-
seums, the courtyard renovation project at the Freer Gal-
lery of Art, laboratory and shop additions at the
Smithsonian Environmental Research Center, and the
major renovation of utility systems. Progress was made
on the Earl S$. Tupper Research and Conference Center at
the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, with funds
provided jointly from federal appropriations and a gift
from the Tupper family. This project is slated for com-
pletion in September 1988.

Endowment

The Smithsonian’s endowment fund reached an all-time
high of $234,120,769 on September 30, 1987. Institutional

37
euphoria was tempered on “Black Monday.” As of De-
cember 31, as indicated in the footnotes of the accompa-
nying audit report from Coopers and Lybrand, the
endowment was valued at $188,400,000. This represents
a 19 percent loss from September 30 versus a 25 percent
drop in the Dow Jones Industrial Average for the same
three-month period.

Historically, the Smithsonian’s endowment fund has
been equity oriented. With the appointment at the end of
fiscal year 1986 of Miller, Anderson and Sherrerd to
manage a balanced portfolio, the Investment Policy
Committee signaled a move toward more portfolio
diversification. By December 31, 1987, the portfolio had
the following asset mix: 62 percent equities, 21 percent
fixed income, and 18 percent cash or cash equivalent.

The Institution’s Investment Policy Committee takes an
active role in endowment management, continually reas-
sessing the performance and effectiveness of the invest-
ment managers. We are grateful to our committee
members who have given generously of their time and
expertise: Regent Barnabas McHenry, who serves as
chair; Regent Carlisle Humelsine; Donald Moriarity;
Charles H. Mott; William R. Saloman; Thomas J. Wat-
son; and Jane Mach Gould. The Institution’s managers
are Miller, Anderson and Sherrerd; Fiduciary Trust Com-
pany of New York; Batterymarch Financial Manage-
ment; and Nova Advisors. Managers operate with full
discretion within guidelines set by the committee and in
consultation with the Board of Regents.

The Regents at their May 1987 meeting ordered the
sale of the Institution’s remaining investments in Sullivan
signatory companies doing business in South Africa. Di-
vestment began soon thereafter and was substantially
completed by September 30 without loss to the portfolio.
The last disposition was made on November 5, 1987.

Financial Management Activities

After several years of evaluation and planning, fiscal year
1987 saw significant progress and accomplishment within
the Treasurer’s Office. As noted in past annual reports,
the Treasurer’s Office encompasses diverse fiscal respon-
sibilities as well as business management activities. The
Office of Accounting and Financial Services, the Office of
Financial Management and Planning, and the Office of
Risk Management report directly to the Treasurer. These
offices are jointly responsible for the systems and for the
control, security, and disposition of the funds detailed in
the accompanying reports.

38

As the fiscal year closed, the Institution was poised to
implement a new payroll/personnel system utilizing the
services of the Department of Agriculture’s National Fi-
nance Center. The first payroll on this system was suc-
cessfully processed on November 5. The Institution’s old
patchwork system relied heavily for nearly two decades
on extensive manual effort. The new system is continu-
ously current and consistent with federal standards, doc-
umented, and almost entirely automatic, thereby
expediting payroll processing and reporting.

The Treasurer wishes to express the Institution’s in-
debtedness to Clyde G. McShan II, Director of the Na-
tional Finance Center, and his staff for their willingness
to adapt an essentially federal system to the Smithson-
ian’s special needs. Readers may be unaware that the
Smithsonian has two well-integrated but technically dis-
tinct staffs. There are approximately 4,300 federal em-
ployees and 1,300 nonfederal or trust-funded employees.

Equal gratitude goes to the more than fifty people
within the Institution who by their tireless efforts made
the conversion possible. Under the guidance of the Treas-
urer, a special task force headed by Joseph Vasquez,
Howard Toy, and Shireen Dodson spearheaded the effort
of staff in the Office of Personnel Administration, the
Office of Accounting and Financial Services, and the Of-
fice of Information Resource Management. They were as-
sisted by Price Waterhouse consultants.

During the course of the year, Financial Management
staff reviewed custodial services available from various
financial institutions. An agreement was entered into
with Manufacturers Hanover Bank and implemented in
July 1987. The Institution now has direct computer-
linked access to its investment portfolio and obtains a
wealth of comparative statistical data from this source.

Business Management Activities

Under the watchful eye of the Treasurer and the Business
Manager, James J. Chmelik, it was a hectic but reward-
ing year for the Museum Shops, the Mail Order Division,
Product Development and Licensing, and Concessions.
Museum Shops opened the highly acclaimed shop in the
new Museum of African Art, an imaginatively refur-
bished shop at the National Air and Space Museum, and
the dynamic first floor shop at the Hirshhorn. The suc-
cess of these enterprises is a tribute to the unstinting ef-
forts of Museum Shops Director, Samuel J. Greenberg,
and his retail specialists.
Changing market conditions and customer preferences
affected Mail Order Division sales. While still a very
healthy contributor to unrestricted trust funds, Mail Or-
der did not experience the growth of past years, and the
Institution was led to reevaluate its marketing and mer-
chandising efforts. The fledgling Product Licensing and
Development Division, however, scored notable triumphs
timed to coincide with the opening of the Quadrangle.
Kravet Fabrics was licensed to reproduce textiles based
upon patterns from the Museum of African Art Collec-
tion; Century Furniture brought to market reproductions
of the garden furniture integral to the Enid A. Haupt
Garden.

New food service vendors, Guest Services Incorpo-
rated, and daka Corporation, began operations at the
Smithsonian in November 1986. The transition was ac-
complished with minimal disruption in service. Net in-
come from Concessions, primarily as a result of the new
food service agreements, was up 85 percent over the pre-
ceding year. In March 1987, the Institution broke ground
for a restaurant addition at the National Air and Space
Museum. This facility will greatly expand food services
on the Mall beginning in the fall of 1988.

Audit Activities

The Institution’s funds, federal and nonappropriated, are
audited annually by the independent public accounting
firm of Coopers and Lybrand. Coopers and Lybrand’s
consulting staff provided assistance to the Institution with
respect to allocations for computer cost centers, manage-
ment of business activity inventories, financial reporting
for food services activities, and Quadrangle construction
costs. Coopers and Lybrand’s unqualified report for fiscal
year 1987 is reprinted on the following pages.

The Smithsonian’s internal audit staff regularly reviews
the Institution’s financial activities and fiscal systems, as-
sists the outside auditors, and does special projects as
required. In addition, the Defense Contract Audit Agency
conducted audits of grants and contracts received from
federal agencies and monitored allocated administrative
costs.

The Audit and Review Committee of the Board of Re-
gents, chaired by Regent David C. Acheson, met three
times during the fiscal year pursuant to responsibilities
under legislation, the legal nature of the Institution, and
the bylaws of the Board of Regents. In addition to re-
viewing the 1986 audit performed by Coopers and Ly-
brand and their 1987 audit plan, the committee reviewed
reports from the Office of Audits and Investigation and a
wide variety of the Institutional programs and activities.

Related Organizations

The Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars,
the National Gallery of Art, and the John F. Kennedy
Center for Performing Arts were established by Congress
within the Institution. Each organization is administered
by its own board of trustees and reports independently
on its financial status. The Smithsonian provides the
Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars fis-
cal, administrative, and other support services in addition
to office space on a reimbursement basis. Administrative
services are provided by the Institution on a contract ba-
sis for Reading Is Fundamental. Office space continues to
be provided for Visions Foundation, Inc., a nonprofit or-
ganization that publishes American Visions magazine. An
independent nonprofit operation, the Friends of the Na-
tional Zoo, operates under contract for the benefit of the
National Zoological Park.
Smithsonian Institution Operating Funds

FISCAL YEARS 1975, 1980, 1985, 1986, 1987
(In $1,000,000’s)

400

FUNDS PROVIDED

109 /——_

Auxiliary
and

+ Bureau
Activities
Expenses

Unrestricted

Restricted

Net

Nonappropriated
+ Trust Funds
Gross Revenues)

Trust
Funds

Government Grants
and Contracts

| Federal
A ppropnations

1975 1980 1985 1986 1987
400 =
: T 2T)*
FUNDS APPLIED i
= o Plant and Endowment
375 -+— —— —_——— —_— — —_ — nnn mn
350 + — Mm }— ——__
|
|
325 - = ——
Auxiliary and Bureau Activities Expenses
300 ————d ——
275. —— — |
| t |
| | |
250 _— pene Set
|
|
225 a tt |
and | Administration and Facilities Services
. } |
| > aed
| Special Programs
Fe | os Pe — Directorate of
( —— ——) —
= os } International
i al | { Activities
125 a | { } |
| |
| {
} f Museums
es
|
4 f Public Service
—————— | SSS = /
|
{
: {
Sh == f | Research
;

1975 1980 1985 1986

Historical data for certain categories are
summarized for 1975 and 1980

40

1987

Table 1 Financial Summary (In $1,000s)

FY 1986 FY 1987
INSTITUTIONAL OPERATING FUNDS
FUNDS PROVIDED:
Federal Appropriations—Salaries & Expenses ........-+.1see-seeeeeenseeeeeneeeeeeeeeeseneeseeaeees $169,384 $188,974
(Governments Grants: oc GOMtLactsuemesscemanaasncaeeceec cence cetiscect bisa ssielelselsctrteisccetsicistetistermctetsteretta 15,534 15,873
Nonappropriated Trust Funds:
Rom Restricted!) Purposes) e.csarn-0-t cm doose oneem een emaeleaeetre ies elem eins alee nels sins elasisamiacsias 13,314 16,518
For Unrestricted & Special Purposes:
Auxiliary & Bureau Activities Revenues—GPo5s ...........0ececeeeeneeeeneeeeetteeecen scenes 153,166 166,737
Wesstelatedi Expenses: sadesseeeascteacnceneeemettecete sae c seri -les(eetelereneemee ner (131,571) (137,841)
Auxiliary & Bureau Activities Net Revenue ..........-..2::-ssseeeecseeecceeeeeceneeeeeeeeeees PAN SSIS) 28,896
Invyestinentel Gittace: Others lin Come meeerrrnceseessesetesetnecert aceite selec lsltleltseise 7,982 11,825
Total Net Unrestricted & Special Purpose Revenue ...............ss-eeeeeeeseeeeeeeeeeees DOES ii 40,721
Total Nonappropriated Trust Funds—Gross ..........1.c-esseeeecsseeeeeeeeeeneteceneeessa esses 174,462 195,080
BN Ce eas aciaa a toe eio vate oneness 42,891 57/239)
Total Operating Funds Provided—Gross ...........22.cceeeeeeeeeeeeeeeseneeeececeeeneseeeseeeeeeeees 359,380 399,927
me NCE trav nictrartisio eae Sear cee ope ce erate tetas Sattinane snctee setae were $227,809 $262,086
FUNDS APPLIED:
IREGGATEIN cséoanetesecbs coseonana ae aeaeenadse co aBnBROSeCorcact aE Baa oeacoon de cRerDebad cnoduadaasansouetucn $ $2,463 $ 56,452
Wess SA Overhead RECOVELY. <...-.cecascccere sco. +-cuewsecsecassecerternsedesienscaseaersnnemeceeeraeas (2,654) (2,545)
IMISRAYTTAS sds coosotodsusnacsncacésbecdossdscounDoosoacobconaeocoseanadeoncocpcuLoddsndenscouBbacuUBabebosesaade 89,765 95,632
Pilblite Garniiee i josscsonoceatoco concer eeoconReeaanocaerburcduaascecbapses aoceco-ndecodaoncs ccooanonosocodasidac 4,229 5,301
Directorate1o GintennationaleAGtivities meccaeceacecee ease ceeanece es tecam sctieelelelisteeinir=teleclesicleliel\-l-r 1,387 1,427
SpeciallPro gras sere. csrectre-celssien snes catererna=-eeerses eee rnc eeeslseeinnne ss ss\ecanne=senasnmaee(sere 11,740 11,642
Associates 8 Business Management ...............s2csesscsseeceeeneecnccercecnteecencesenseeenscecs 1,043 1,258
Adhniaigia aon hace: She necnassopsoneooc ooo aeochatosponconcanocossogoed ccc pecqcopbeoogss0ec0noqNen0G 12,726 Si
Nonappropriated Trust Funds ...............2ccceseeeecneeeeccneecerneeececeeeescenesssaeecenee rere 8,474 9,889
ess Smithsonian Overhead Recovery <..:..2+----+---cnceeccecsecereeaseeeenensen-neaeeoocesnnness (8,491) (9,305)
Baillivies Seni@as. sesassseenesiuskeaetposonceccsboscodueenaccorcasaapeccosond cagsasqasacoosposdccpeonceodena 51,302 S727
Total Operating Funds Applied ................ccccssseeeeecccneeeeeecerecceneeecceecenenessseeeaneeeees 221,984 242,134
Transfers (Nonappropriated Trust Funds) .....................cccneeeeceneereecneccnceseceeeseecnes
Uinerasnneiadl rvs —1@ JARI jsonssesccasdeoosoentiaccadosoooneannodnnesbansHsascoobwasSsbeoooNsceODE 87 (255)
<= 1G) TEVVGLOMTESTE GoosendacooscunconcssoosaqnoccHcadad onehodcoosDEsonSononnoSdeae 55/33} 3,278
Restiictedsaninds— lore Owen taeeeeteer eee eeeee eek ceeeean se eerie cick eerie citcteiser tle terr 2,314 570
Total Operating Funds Applied & Transferred Out ...........:s0eseeeeeeeeeneeeeeneeeeeneeeeeee $230,118 $245,727
CHANGES IN NONAPPROPRIATED TRUST FUND BALANCES:
Restricted Purpose (Including Government Grants & Contracts) $ (28) Nee. oo Os
Unrestricted —General Purpose .........-.-2-----.0ssseoccseworsnsocaseneneenensseeenacwereensenracss (3,094) 3) i132
——SJREEIAWYOSO sesoaocaescqoooscooscasseoqnesoooniasonsonassdocqespobeacancaEsasacqsecacC 813 9,114
TIGA “ob codcncce cco sboocdao cn Set so aS OE COCHBC AE GC Te nen TnH Ger Dac DCO RCE AR ACCC Sn ocCRTOdoseTastcp aPBESEaHonanaAnn $ (2,309) $ 16,359
YEAR-END BALANCES—NONAPPROPRIATED TRUST FUNDS:
IRs wAISi@Gl IUTHPYOES seccossaesacosocseoso ss onaqdesnnb00ho00s.onHcHoDBDsESDUnndponqduadsoDRAccCoasEseqo5sa000 S  Dyaswe $ 13,769
Wnnestricted— General Purpose eecssceeceesceeseisseecnins see ole aie ee eee alleen sels else tee eels leet ie etle 2,044 5,176
= SeSelll WASOSS soocesosescnanovooobonanno ness osbs0scoqodns oS EEEAIndEbanssodcosEsosEbeeoCr 24,645 33,759
"Toya Jaca csaeSSete pen ceeonree ob Seogaoeon carnaocuucncedaroooceten sagnGuRSnsce coe Spade ck arneRac en comer sasonracoe $ 36,345 $ 52,704
OTHER FEDERAL APPROPRIATIONS **
Special Foreign Currency Program .............ccsscccsecesecccnecccneecseecceccrnecceneseessaeeeneees Si 25378 $ —
(CLOIGTTEETION. -cpcuqccesosneaseoce na budobndoecoooopeoboacocuocBoSgsabodaccoosoqnencassecos docopooadodogCoacOns 19,621 21,570
Total Federal Appropriation (Including S & E above) ...............cccseceeeeecneeeeeceeeeenees $191,383 $210,544

* Includes unobligated funds returned to Treasury: FY 1986—$185,000; FY 1987—$343,000.

** Excludes $1,477,000 received in FY 1986 and $1,585,000 received in FY1987 from the Department of State for research projects

in India.

41
Table 2 Source and Application of Operating Funds for the Year Ended September 30, 1987
(Excludes Special Foreign Currency Funds, Plant Funds, and Endowments) (In $1,000s)

Nonfederal Funds

Unrestricted Restricted
Total Government
Non- Grants
Federal federal Auxiliary Special and
Funds Funds General Activities Purpose General Contracts
FUND BALANCES—10/01/86 ................006- $ — §$ 36,345 $ 2,044 $ — $ 24,645 $ 9,656 $ —
FUNDS PROVIDED:
ederalgAppropriationsmeesseeteseecesereceeeeteseeor eee $188,974 §$ — §$ — §$ — $ — § — § —
WnanrER Tensile IWEOVNS scoconsassosonsoscosonnscadonsoseseeee _ 11,248 5,311 520 900 4,517 —
Government Grants and Contracts .............0.0+ _ 15,873 — — — — 15,873
(COI aaa eee aR asa oct s coc ERE Rene ocuSceGceCRC earners — 14,840 74 4,477 316 9,973 _
Sales and Membership Revenue ................0..0+ — 161,740 — 152,537 9,203 — —
KO dcVaie eR aes nec o¢ ner cat CECE Eo oS accent Oa Meee — ay) 51 — Soil7/3} 2,028 —
Motal Providediemesneere.c.:scccetenetaeee ences ecee 188,974 210,953 5,436 157,534 Se 92) 16,518 15,873
MotallcAvatlablegeereree. oc snse-tecteetteretes co scee $188,974 $247,298 $ 7,480 $157,534 $ 40,237 $ 26,174 $ 15,873
FUNDS APPLIED:
Research:
ING SISLATI Tg SE CLELALV eee reseeeee eR enero re eee en eee ee eroee SP e374 on ASIEERSS They. 89 — §$ 28 §$ 596 §$ 609
Astrophysical Observatory ............+.-seecseeeeeees 9,920 16,547 2,580 — 1,826 42 12,099
Wesst@verheadsRecovienyercetesssttstereecteerecen: — (2,545) — (2,545) _ — —
WixopicalResearchulnstitttes cecescceeeseceseeeesecee ees 4,198 1,852 155 — 756 473 468
Environmental Research Center ..............2..000+ 1,960 603 Wa —_— 91 117/ 418
National’ool opicallParksiee---c--cseeeeesseoreeseatees 1DES7 2: 775 138 — 408 179 50
Gonitd ns@mlein ANRAMINIES. csoqvoanconcccasbococsodonasenoeT 591 172 171 = 1 — _—
Smithsontanmletbraviesiecescsscssesesecceecceeteteecee ere SG 453 390 — 39 24 —
dkotallesearchi oeerne nan content ecoueesecece soscecewons Bons 19,168 1,044 — 3,149 1,331 13,644
Museums:
INGSistanti Se Chetalyaeccsdseserercoerceechescesceceesseees 593 163 140 = 17 6 _
Museumiybropramsieneereesrscscecesessccerscrereecenee 428 389 7 oa 35) 326 1
National Museum of Natural History/ Museum
QURINY eos aan sae e on cac On SE ROADS GORDI Gace ReASee aREE a Saeceise 22,300 4,245 280 _— 1,381 1,781 803
National Air & Space Museum ...............0000008 8940 4,292 155 _ 3,021 534 582
National Museum of American History ........... 13,009 2,563 184 — 1,048 1,263 68
National Museum of American Art ............... 4618 3,413 39 _ 2742 631 1
National Portrait Gallenysace---ceeceeeeeeseeereeecnees 4,365 367 18 — 120 208 2
Finshhornpe Museumlecescceeteeeeencecencecer create ccetere 3,282 1,320 11 — 329 980 _—
GentemtorAsiantArtence eceece nee en ee eee eeeee 3,941 22339 154 _— Dif 2,158 —
ArchivesiofAmentcanvArt) ssese.sseeeeeenseneceeeeeeeee 1,008 868 87 — 6 HAS —
Cooperstlewitt Museums-c---s-eseseseeeceenesee eee ee: 1,000 SRE) 825 _ 1,494 724 76
National Museum of African Art ..............2000- 3,026 1,548 134 — 1,348 66 —
Anacostia Neighborhood Museum ................+- 868 39 37 _ 2 - =
INationalaMiiseumbA chasse sceeeceneeeeer erate rc areee 21 _ — — _ — —
Conservation Analytical Laboratory ................ 2,402 78 _ _ 21 Ss) 7)
@fficeofsE xhibitsi@entralae-----2 eeeeeeeeeee ener 1,701 (60) — _— (60) — —
Traveling Exhibition!Service .....cs-csee-eens---.--6- 635 3,425 250 _— 2,653 399 123
RotalMuiseumspecsse cots sce.nesemeeeeeeee eae oes 72,137 28,108 27321 0 14,204 9,906 1,677

42

Table 2 Source and Application of Operating Funds Year Ended September 30, 1987
(Excludes Special Foreign Currency Funds, Plant Funds, and Endowments) (In $1,000s)

Nonfederal Funds

Unrestricted Restricted
Total Government
Non- Grants
Federal federal Auxiliary — Special and
Funds Funds General Activities Purpose General Contracts
Public Service:
PNGSIStATMP OC CEECALY IE sete eats doen - nslscidsiicasgssessicmas 259 605 495 — 82 28 —
MelecommUnicatlOns) ese-6 feces scas ce saesiosseashateseses 268 730 Sil3} — 154 63 _
INECe pl Ons GEM Lemma cnasse eters ccseecdscm-acecorsesnees 192} 782 780 -- — 2 —
OfficetofMRublic Affairs. Si.ccccecsseseawsoersocenswese 607 527 504 a 23 — -
SiH FA SOMIAMME CESS Heke saaeceaee<iodeescscaseececsesanes 1,110 12,183 58 11,880 241 — 4
MotalPublic Service ase scra-ccescaeececeeeenscee 2,436 14,827 2,350 11,880 500 93
Directorate of International Activities .............. 622 805 651 -- 85 Sil 18
Special Programs:
American Studies & Folklife Program ............. 764 1257) 572 — 86 69 530
International Environmental Science Program ... 714 — - “= _ = _
Academic & Educational Program ................. 854 2,618 451 = 1,966 201 =
Collections Management/Inventory ................ 901 _ — _— _— = -
IMMUSeuMESUp POLE CEMten x. .0.-he-eseoe-essecemene 4,475 127 _— “= 127 _ —
ERE Genter Grant, 2.2 -cos. seer ensaedak oeececseeeewcnsoss 0 — — — — _— --
MotaliSpecialiProgramsts.-.sseeeee eee ee eee 1,708 4,002 1,023 — 2,179 270 530
/AGSOEIGUC JAROaTENNS: “Gonacrnabecosdceaoanesaasacsodcoanaac _— 81,386 OF, 80,116 298 45 _
IBUSILESSHVIANAPEMIENE ene eecececsee ee scicrcnss scenes — 38,752 _ 38,752 — — —
PNG minis tha COM pe 5seecececiseac eer Quieosieeaseinaseceeieei 14,769 11,187 8,650 _ 2,413 124 —
ILESS OWSANEAG! WAGON ceooosoceecodsoncnaoboocoEeodee (9,305) (9,305) — = — —
HaGiInESs SERVICES yaseten cack ss ovocsacesboen geteoeecteees 55,428 2,071 1,704 — 364 3 —
Transfers Out/(In):
SIPC ASUity gamers e reco sete easo icc scindteeeiceeacsieaccaes 343 —_ — — _ — _—
ETO PT AUIS ie ceeeae is dace ansa.dvine ce sees seas enaceceeee — _ 6,355 — (6,355) — —
INeteAusalianysActivitiesi-sescncrescscsse oes eee ee ee ee = — (25,373) BS 373 — _— —
Other Designated Purposes -c-ce-seee<cseeseeeeeeeeee — (255) 8,923 1,413 (10,603) 12) —
TITRE” conpebacep BeOS OSHC UD Che> SonadUERE EERO Stee cere co etera — _ — —_ _ — —
AICO WITIEM tac cee tee ee eee ace areca eme ee tenieaace — 3,848 3,034 = 244 570 =
Motalidiransfers) sas: ccte-cacessemerae reece saat 343* 3593} (7,061) 26,786 (16,714) 582 —
Motal’bundsvAtppliedeccsese-sesstesstesescee $188,974 $194,594 $ 2,304 $157,534 $ 6,478 $ 12,405 §$ 15,873
TPLUINID) AIL/AINIGIIS S/S sousconccouscoococooseno: $ — $ 52,704 $ 5,176 $ = § 23759) S iss7e S ~-

*Unobligated funds returned to Treasury

**Includes Collection Acquisition, Scholarly Studies, Educational Outreach, and Special Exhibitions Programs.

Table 3 Government Grants and Contracts—Expenditures (In $1,000s)
Fiscal Years 1986 and 1987

Government Agencies

Agency for International Development
Department of Commerce
Department of Defense
Department of Energy
Department of Health and Human Services
Department of Interior
National Aeronautics and Space Administration*
National Science Foundation **
Other

FY 1986 FY 1987
$ 763 $426
37 1S
1,676 1,437
509 731

461 2IE:
319 616
10,992 10,951
675 666
474 Taw
$15,906 $15,873

“Includes $420,000 (FY 1986) and $273,700 (FY 1987) in subcontracts from other organizations receiving prime contract funding

from NASA.

**Includes $261,000 (FY 1986) and $158,900 (FY 1987) in NSF subcontracts from the Chesapeake Research Consortium.

Table 4 Restricted Operating Trust Funds*
Fiscal Years 1986 and 1987 (In $1,000s)

Fund
Net balance
Total Transfers increase end of
Investment Gifts Miscellaneous revenue Deductions in(out) (decrease) year
EVD. 8 Git rcetidecits aowaaee eee sees ee seceeens $4,046 $6,318 $2,950 $13,314 $10,622 $(2,348) $ 344 $ 9,656
veel Si7-
Astrophysical Observatory ...........- $32 els} $ — $ 45 §$ 42 § 1 $ 2 es 13
Tropical Research Institute ........... 78 H/ — 175 473 — (298) 198
National Zoological Park ............. 26 195 9 230 179 _ Sil AY)
(Omnar RECA connasndocassaonuanssaoo 299 756 2 1,057 637 156 264 817
MiuseumipPro crannsi cer seenrcerter rece 11 15S — 166 326 (160) 95
National Museum of Natural
RIGWoye\ /eebRedednaanpsoeseansuasasosnEaunad 1,556 S27 iS 2,098 1,782 14 302 1,571
National Air and Space Museum..... 139 888 1 1,028 534 — 494 1,091
National Museum of American
ENC) sation osiooRadcarcornerine SoDEEBA SCONE 209 2,012 5 2,226 1,263 (1) 964 2,681
National Museum of American Art.. 78 681 Zi 766 631 — 135 381
National Potrait Gallery................ 14 178 — 192 208 — (16) 180
Hirshhorn Museum ................-.++: 13}5} 135 1,398 1,668 980 400 288 544
@entertomAsianvAnt peecceeeeeeeeeeeces 1,578 418 514 2,510 2,158 (2) 354 2,043
Archives of American Art ............. 49 906 181 1,136 IS = 361 666
Cooper-Hewitt Museum ............... 100 704 9 813 724 _ 89 1,060
Traveling Exhibition Service ......... 37 1,078 — ES) 417 = 698 940
@themMuseumsereererceeteececteeeeecee 31 433 2 466 126 — 340 485
American Studies and Folklife
Bro Oral emceceenaceaecete cece or 8 184 (167) 25 69 — (44) 83
A @ thenter sconce eres eieen 137 613 52) 802 499 14 289 642
MOWAW EV WIS. wercceseceee $4,517 $9,973 $2,028 $16,518 $11,823 $ 582 $4,113 $13,769

*Does not include Government Grants and Contracts
** Miscellaneous and Gifts revenue reflect a prior year adjustment.

44

Table 5 Unrestricted Trust Funds—General and Auxiliary Activities
Fiscal Years 1986 and 1987 (In $1,000s)

FUNDS PROVIDED

General Income:

LiRRIGRTITTE INES, anna necoSHncan capOndSnOCcBOnns ad SODA TnIO or RC ConA noo MEAD TI ncaCAaRneTapbpamnracrissccnscrrnocc
KE RG MER Sea ae te Seis is sine te cates bis nwa Sale Sea eae oid w OAS ABO MeRNE te ca eee eee dat nate tadhca snes act oaks

Auxiliary Activities Income (Net):

FAG SOCLALES Maree eee eat aia enclslslclows See oie eiawielnicivne waidiele nae eioiatnsagmeclonemlaia clase saleeeemenee tame eeebees

Business Management:

== Mineantin Soyo eintell MEN Olial Se ceessocunsapododboducsaSebbenso6adesbors adesbpubanusdosbossecaddedss
=== CQNGESSIONSHAN Gd harkin gers: scene acces ewes tec cna conan sete tea cate aoe a ciiad Casisegomectammisretine cise
== OLIN MRE eee ae Seat coc wisi ecacc ices tance sbuuswudauestvusauaccseusiuedecsscesgussduateie teste veseeknaseat
Smut SOMAnUPTeSS ee arc tere: ce sers fact ateccess ore csmeream cerca centareos de stacseiens eet emeneacaesemuac ee tase
Minavelingwe xin DIGIONS tensa seretcees coeeas eae Saceetene oc seh oceceiineter eecen ec cnc eet ce teeter ne ecto
BOOP SELVICES Ie ei ace. seeic ses ck bce esicns So cwawecmspen unm aetsnbas a(t necuhsenasboaawsanpcuceeseacsteuosnaees

MotalbArsdltany eA Ctivitlesia sescescese leet se cenoaeis eee tet enone cmeen tees sen scete ee eencae nina Sane ce ees

‘W@wall lenels 1irey7alsal (IN) Saoaceeqoceenbacdodeasodeocedoncodeosooaceondeddoconachoodosasacncudcus

EXPENDITURES AND TRANSFERS

Nghia mene ainel JU toys raiin Is qOSTS socanaqsaabeoosceddcasosdeoRsesroaohcendsacodeoneadnscasnbacs6c0000
MesseAcdiministhativietNeCOVELy? ceesscce cnt oceceschecseecssobestatenssunucnaneccansietsbheeeeaeossnueaeeceten

IN GCSE XP CHSC cr iteirarciaeiaecinensmetistocgaseetieelestn csc us taieat eisamicielseelense Suncde ceitveneeetesenmeceasmeaes

Less Net Transfers Out:

Mops pecial Pe ncposetombrogramiLurposesmerreccessscseeeses eeeeeeaaerce tee ecettereeeteeteeereeenace
MyopRlantab itd Se cesscieascaecsccossasuiantescocesepasecslensmenanesies seasciensee vaiissassaeiorsccensetcinaers

*Effective with FY 1987 Traveling Exhibitions is classified in the Unrestricted Special Purpose Funds.

FY 1986 FY 1987
$ 4,617 $ 5.300
42 74

162 51
4,821 5,436
11,284 16,365
6,076 6,639
1,720 DID
(238) (164)
1,357 1,734
(566) =
19,633 26,786
24,454 32,222
24,064 21,214
11,145 11,849
12,919 9,365
11,592 16,691
37 =
3,000 3,034
14,629 19,725
(3,094) 3,132
$ 2,044 $5,176

45
Table 6 Auxiliary Activities Fiscal Years 1986 and 1987 (In $1,000s)

Sales
and Less Net
membership cost of Gross revenue*
Activity revenue Gifts sales revenue Expenses __ (loss)
TENE NOG Sadesaecocadsocs cocanouscocdeecunsoasesasesebacesscccocoeaacce nn $142,511 $3,853 $84,669 $61,695 $42,062 $19,633
FY 1987:
INGROBTAGES cosscnsconasessedcooadéaocudbesodroqonbnonodabossosusccescocoscas $ 92,004 $4,477 $61,031 $35,450 $19,085 $16,365
Business Management: *
—Museum Shops/Mail Order .........-........-.c00cesesensene- 43,527 _ 23,254 20,273 13,634 6,639
= Concessions Pankin ge teee- eesesesecse sees onccasseasiecasesosers 3,336 - — 3,336 1,124 ai 22
= (OVINE: coagacdssatiageorsoonactolcssEae connor poececesee econ acedeceasese 576 — _ 576 740 (164)
Smithsonians Dressy eeecsee ere ascee ce ceeececcsecerscacdseessecencsicsses 13,614 — 3.595) 10,079 8,345 1,734
MiravelinpeR xii bitlonsemaiesecs-pesees-ceeeceoseesee ee ssessraass=scese: — a = _ _
MRO CANE G19 87 eaestree as eeceke sateesssessessssee=scceenece snes $153,057 $4,477 $87,820 $69,714 $42,928 $26,786

*Before revenue-sharing transfers to participating Smithsonian bureaus of $983,000 (FY 1986) and $1,413,000 (FY 1987).

**E ffective FY 1987 Parking was discontinued.

***E ffective with FY 1987 Traveling Exhibitions is classified in the Unrestricted Special Purpose Funds.

46
Table 7 Unrestricted Special Purpose Funds
Fiscal Years 1986 and 1987 (In $1,000s)

Revenue Deductions
Gifts Fund
and Bureau Net balance
Bureau _ other Total Transfers Program activity increase end of
Investment activities revenue revenue in (out) expense expense (decrease) year
ENC IQS) Soededsceeepeecereterereenecer $856 $6,802 $2,305 $ 9,963 $ 8,843 $13,153 $4,840 $ 813 $24,645
FY 1987:
Astrophysical Observatory......... $53 S Si S 6G 2 487 SS yi Silo 8 7s BS Wl —S L950
SA© (Computer Genters..::...--.--- — 482 — 482 (170) — 446 (134) (11)
Tropical Research Institute ........ — 156 -- 156 275 595 161 (325) 332
Environmental Research Center .. 1 A) — 23 125 79 12 57 ANS)
National Zoological Park ......... 290 — 448 738 161 408 — 49] 4,237
National Museum of Natural
PAS EOLY Mees cewaiicene es see eseneeees 84 — 354 438 1,490 1,380 1 547 (e732
National Air and Space Museum 122 3,047 394 3,563 (89) 1,182 1,839 453 2,613
National Museum of American
AA GEOLY pense ane e nae cneceesen ence sestes 31 90 188 309 806 1,025 23 67 1,461
National Museum of American
JN acecaedona gece ene e none een eee 30 62 Sal? 3,214 544 DSi 5 1,016 1,979
National Portrait Gallery .......... 6 DD. 8 36 85 100 20 1 320
Hirshhorn Museum ..............-.- 130 11 141 487 329 — 299 858
@enterfor Asian Art ...2<-..0.2-+-< — — — — 524 27 — 497 501
Cooper-Hewitt Museum ........... 2, il silil4} 149 1,290 380 731 763 176 838
National Museum of African Art 3 — 2 5 505 1,348 — (838 (374)
Traveling Exhibition Service ...... 1 2,122 5 2,128 272 TaD: iL -S)33i1 (253 1,549
Telecommunications ................ — 40 2 42 — 74 80 (a2 DD)
SluGomputer Genter ess-a-ceeeseses — 1,243 == 1,243 11 — | 725)5) (1 (1)
Fellowships & Grants .............. 36 — = 36 2,027 1,930 — 133 1,422
Museum Support Center .......... — = -- _ — 127 — (27 81
Reserve for Contingencies ......... o — — — 3,700 (72) — SET 7,680
Unallocated Programs* ............. = _ — = 2,629 — _ 2,629 3,149
PNUIE@ thetaeescesesoseacccseteacesseceee 86 485 740 esi 1,238 2,170 384 (S 3,126
MOMAIMIBY, 19875 28 .cke- $900 $9,203 $5,489 $15,592 $16,714 $16,099 $7,093 $9,114 $33,759

*Includes Collection Acquisition, Scholarly Studies, Educational Outreach, and Special Exhibitions Programs.

47
Table 8 Special Foreign Currency Program
Fiscal Year 1987—Obligations (In $1,000s)

Systematic & — Astrophysics

Environmental & earth Museum Grant
Country Archaeology biology sciences programs Administration Total
Iinieliel: caassanen ooeauecraceuntaconcencoot aroneaceacoscn $ — $— $— $— gS 2 $22
Bakistanwsisstocneasassteraeeeseserecvatienasteenss 163 6 22 1,000 ot
BUGIM apse eee cereet ey ceremebeeaeasaece deen setaew dass — — _— — 0
(GUT TEE | gas penne dan acorn ene cRe ei ncE eRe cermcrectens 2 == LS Bios = 2
MOtalWWEYOUS 87 rere sc voseccenceesscett 165 $ 6 $0 $22 $1,012 $1,205

Table 9 Construction and Plant Funds
Fiscal Years 1986 and 1987 (In $1,000s)

FY 1986 FY 1987
FUNDS PROVIDED
Federal Appropriations:
INEwionAl Zo@lo=eall PAVE cspsoqsnaccososassocoonodonbooscnonaseoneqgenaah oombasénodonnocoonosopasosaHoondeasocoscaeo00 $ 5,280 $ 2,500
Restorationsand Renovationlof Bull ding spe eeeeecse see ectreseestecssaes nae se ceaccieseseeaceiiesleeiseeseebitessiese st 10,536 12975
(Oumercles tore (©) coqatedameacadsooagocodenos dado ansebccedesoadseoocatocoocbecsnebennsadencsans sonSdouanecaeococE scoop ocBEcdaodcs 3,805 S555)
aap periWeseancil Center cesacsecmteesescesceeesceeeee cee cceseceseeesm se seermesceinsisatcctaseakesaiise seaisetteincreisesr — 2,780
otallRederalyAippropuiationsmeeeeesacesesetesesesereeeeeacees seeseee semester cee receestis-nneseceresaasec 19,621 21,570
Nonappropriated Trust Funds:
Income—Gift and Other
Smithsonian Environmental Research Center—Gain on Sale .............csececneceeeeeeeceeeeneeeseeeeees 161 4
Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute—Research Facilities 767 2/29)
Erectiomot| acksonvillesbandstanduereeeeceeeetreteeeestesreeacc hoes sestecee eerste eetiecseet Seem smce areas 2 (25)
(CO Oya HIT IMIG S UTI sconspe6 a2copocandocooqaancoodaenonsc oa6eAnO_NENE ACcaRSOBEODnONGSCONDINGOOFODDDcsoHdaDADodaD S)Si7/ 410
AmenicansArtrancdibonrtrart, Gallery Buil dimguecsascececeess-ecaasceetsaeessceesiindseecesssastceesnceccce rt 13 7
@uadranelerandihWelatedineecesseererceereemsceteeeeccteacescsrer cman nace reeme ees sce ctiaceettaaies -ucceserice acc AS 643
Smithsonian! Institution) buildingySouth) EMtrance, ceecesseceeesaesce -eeckees soe seco ssesececceessseoseuesess 35 —
WisitonIntormationand| Receptions Genter rcsrcases-cesesnccdeenersccneenesecedoaaesccece ence cr rrr serieer cect — 55577
National’Zoologicall Parks Japanese! Crabs ini bitseesenesesece eee eeseect reece ee: ree seerescins stems -ticetecce _ 30
IDES SING Se Sens conseonacenadohancuatoocack socoseecadedsendascsnendccstanded tac meneScncncnan GancnbcipaCEREAAaaecnaBadis _ 16
mMiotalélncome eecesececce etme eaten Eocene ecee ce eae ieee cline ectececiecissistetnis etoile aviseianiaisleaaiscinesorteciee 2,640 5,367
Transfers from Other Funds:
National Museummo freA iricanpAtrtmeasccecererereeceereterees cee eac eter cence cesses eeieesleciesnceieiielieiseseiteersert 19 —
8a (GEIKGNE socscssconosousenotasioneodusob soduavoonqcosoHebdaqoooRoHcasapooudcabsobasuanoBsbodoDdodoDoaDaEdEDeGOuDsE0a0 50 _
SRSTETAIES RESIGISTGS. so casnocossdoncvosnosvocsasnos0ne socHooDoGoGNonobasBoG9NDebASHaDAcOoOnDoSGNIOdODBADAbonbEHHAoGAseHo6 18 _
WisitomIntormationrands Reception Genterncepernseeceeeen es ereen cee ceencteeesenisseeisectrlteerter secGrr (erst = (DSS)
DullesiSheltemeeccaeeeoeete eee eect Te pBb ono oaup cdo OURS LU Go saGUC co duEssmee as aaasuebeonnsaoretanadooooodnccents _ 415
ANG all TERETE: eseunnootodsosodospotcd osudascodsadedandecsanodshceasdconasdodououosoopooosadbsnonbpuodbsoGnoouGesbe 87 160
MotaliRundseProvideds sersesdecenssmasccwenesee ace te cece cisaiciecakncise sanieniaate ies cietencissicetilomelonte doeemencseesemnnt $22,348 $27,097

*In the application of Plant Funds for this project, $1,000,000 was refunded on a previously collected pledge.
**Funds transferred to Current Funds to cover fund raising expenses.

48
Table 10 Endowment and Similar Funds September 30, 1987 (In $1,000s)

Book Market
Value Value
ASSETS
Pooled Consolidated Endowment Funds:
GasheandiE quivalents= ssaes oases tase esctess Soows venncwss tees atnae vanes saccade te se sam eredenanateeoasemmeanedcsteak ance $ 30,997 $31,064
WStEovimand  GovisOblipationsiccs.ccsccecsemeccecaesseme ssecescnasecsseessemercsoscee ten cobaresnlemee comet etne 24,888 23,801
[ORGS poaas00 ode Bure SSA CCB ISER ORO BEC OA BECO CECE SHB O GEO HO GH HEN SAC ERE Earn OR Seer iaan acciaaaArd SAC Gens ne ncenennadans 4,332 3,987
(COomV@Téil alle: |Bartyaloepaae eee eee tne ier per tne arte tee Ye le IS es eStats HImIRENRET PEON Bn. PN. ie ic RR bo 6,788 7,638
STON RG eee es ease misc eras atic het dissin Sato NS hed eo tusersa olgna au Seva eins erste alts dain CN mee aes sTor ieee aor 1B 257.78 166,261
‘Tha@reall Proyo) eli Retna yg ccneaaenesadosoe sine ana acd GGosearGadene sono aa on nemeeradadudEcaesucesadaGnesoodhatcansccraae 199,778 232,751
Nonpooled Endowment Funds:
MoanktonUponmbreasury intberpetuity cascsee-ecseeeccncecemcttccesese oe rcnecre seer ccctacaeecnaeerceen ccm ac creer 1,056 1,093
IN@WES IR@ESINE 1) OR soaacacuocuedape booeddee PEBERODEEe sdb cdasobe0ain Sab Seo oor aEnAALSaapodnerdnosdGaadepensssneactodaccosers 40 40
RATICUMBIN fear retavocisjcee nee Sac neh cdepioa soieiaals So maui vc ncuscictebatasamedoaoacnont ete tea ae Se eceaa eae aCe Saetins can enone ears 237 237
iotaltNonpooledtRundsy rn c.ccectercsaceccecntecuanreaccuctectacreercarturte at saecccrteraccwadoseeaeeemenes 333) 1,370
Total Endowment and Similar Fund Balances $201,111 $234,121
FUND BALANCES
WnrestnictedsRunpose-mlinuesE ndowmenty meseccesncace ser seencceesostc tee aeeans: seme ccheseereceaesseaseoaeeresreeece $ 6,244 $ 7,898
QunasivEndowiment sss qccstecsctosse es soe eas ea ae aanciee eu cans eerdabiack sear acceosoeceneemecee 89,761 101,027
floraltWinrestrictedtBunpOsei a ca secs sre. meuceencscilnnasccumselaseatteacneucensass sueee seeee ete deme ceeeee ane 96,005 108,925
Restrictedakurpose-mliniievend OWINeNt ces. ccn ces teset ces ea sores enaeeoe aac so rncee ae Sane CMe Met ceoe ene eeO aaeEEE 76,920 92,361
COTTE STH BieVs (OX, 7001S Nlewmnsecnaeeancpce doobbenteseraadbedanteeracedasancacuDoue cost ockenareecarecacdcts 28,186 32,835
MroraluRestricted™Purpose josna.ccaccceescuceriocessccconcusees oceue tue eceecnmmchiante cee csemeceesencrenneeaseres 105,106 125,196
otalbEndowment-andsSimilarbund balances! -c.ssesseeesesmeneeceaenecececeencecec che eecc acter cece cceedeee reece $201,111 $234,121

49
Table 11 Market Values of Pooled Consolidated Endowment Funds (In $1,000s)

Fund 9/30/83 9/30/84 9/30/85 9/30/86 9/30/87
Wrnestricted errr eeeee rere tener hoon s tinasn en eee eee eeeeaene $ 54,677 $ 56,592 $ 65,404 $ 81,992 $107,697
leixsir (Od sel ee gene deaconnennconoLh ban accere ral oerasbecscocacacacconns 32,096 SLI AS 34,066 39,570 50,380
INeStrlcte daseeeceeestcacme ors sus chistemeiats cis ehimecloaenercesecccameutions 43,911 43,396 47,830 58,228 74,674
Total $130,684 SIS 1RIs $147,300 $179,790 $232,751
Table 12 Changes in Pooled Consolidated Endowment Funds for Fiscal Year 1987 (In $1,000s)
Market Gifts Interest Income Market Market
value and and paid value value
Fund 9/30/86 transfers dividends* out Subtotal appreciation 9/30/87
Winnestrictedimesseeceeetereree ener cere $ 81,992 $3,340 $2,948 $2,949 $ 85,331 $22,366 $107,697
EKGGI camera seemondses esses tec mnooanceons: 39,570 — 1,417 1,418 39,569 10,811 50,380
@fhemRestrictediseesssesesssco-scees $8,228 500 2,092 2,093 58,727 15,947 74,674
Miotall jesnscsssogesckoos=es tees $179,790 $3,840 $6,457 $6,460 $183,627 $49,124 $232,751

*Income earned, less managers’ fees of $931,116.

5°
Table 13 Endowment Funds September 30, 1987

UNRESTRICTED PURPOSE—TRUE:

PAV CG VARUIN Case cen ch pene st a .ioaecies sabamebitese acne-aik dies qoees Sevcuireseniisesienne
lip beemilarnyen VMeEMOLial nen-cncstwase scecaecee see eeceeceeauceetescessecseess
OUP KIM GMA acta ereec scaseceenes anaes cums se sense etidee bacco urte see
NIGELO WAI WISE AW ot aie vcacccces eases seitiiveaes Coosa secumes sabodrsscccccsees
IMirSSinaTa LENE Petes cel. cchcccececctceen bcm enccecscscsccucth he cnanecweseek cesses
Wlinistednmlle lent Atwen. fe censasissesSaoss ange sec ootese seentec setae ebeeccem cones
oor encyall ;amGuG COrge Wa” iscuacechoncectcecseaeek cese cust accencecess
Rontersmennya Rinker Memorial: eereesssteccsedeessacn-teneecessscrereneseee
SameOndenG COLE Es se fete te sencsene toc teesscecceedseccs oc eASevecteoenoccetences
SUMEASOMMIAMICS been wacea daca tes seat detentasancese sae scunenuereneatassntsueeces
Walcott, Charles D. and Mary Vaux, Research (Designated) .......

Guiniarall s4.deccankhbeoc acs oeroh st Cae CEL REE EmAn ERE Dn nee BREED Se mmoenems

UNRESTRICTED PURPOSE—QUASI:

ROLLESTPRODELMEE te etes at cse et oe ns csecee eco eos du aaa nee Basico naetelauee a ceueen eats
(Gamerall Iie loins nit saat cadence oe abect noche robocne nce tceconpnbnnbnospe eae
(Coddand Wo benta ieee eer scacsc ss eee cee obs nana eee
IHlglorally IDVe,. Soi? cbeascboob Secon Ran enOe CoRR EB EE OE ROC E RCE BAO EO EaCE eT ERC ATEEEennes
Fetalrsteam GUS bAWATSH Ears nia ersctteaeiva ca ceet cma atceicieceel occ klsise loineldaslonlos seis
lerinyng @arG line: ean steed csadeeeweccepne aceaceen salable aacuanen seeeeee evens
ilenuyan) osephranduldarrieteAcs ce aeesccaiescmesceeceesesereerseneeseseceeere
ley cepa et Giirncsccncc aan ccis craters sayecennadav au owessvenecastaanyeeve easenees
ATTICOUI GAGE C“SUSALM crc aseeesnsternen srt wis cidae teases sone oueeeie ane aaeeaeee
Lemeal aeiiis JOEL Comagenaceosobodacene natddacboe taaeneinadce ie aaSnBeeacaceerone
iMi@alinws., Grerearl le ragntaacpenesececseSBonceacnuies socavosboeoabas ceabeodbndacae
INIngesy \WAiMevan | ores" sdatasosonoursadondnbedenconses snadocegusesboonsdacopeee
Sattoncdes @larapleo uisenass-oe cect se ceencnes acon tec ese seaceeseeaeene sane
Smiths ontankBequesty humdi sneha eerereceeenenesseareeeeeeeeteeseaeeeeee tee
aeeartey GansOnigecncrs-cecscreasteseseccse: tense veers tes vcore tees siarsnesree
ANolooae, Wilber IL, ((Draseanetieel)) cccsssooncosucoadnoonosdesoconoeobeccoseocce
BURTON, Licealaare 1D), (Des taza) socossoscnsscoasdossbecnocosenasosecensece
Hirshhorn Museum Acquisition Fund (Designated) ................6.5+
Lindbergh Chair of Aerospace History (Designated) ...................
ieindberehs Charles sAt (Designated) maaesceseeeresseeetosten creates ee sence
you Marcus Ward.)|r- (Designated) massssseecssspecese-ce-aeere (eecee se
Smithsonian Agency Account (Designated) ................cc0eeeseeeeeees
WebbssJames E-, Fellowshipi (Designated)! sess-essesceeseeceasesceer sess

Girl sito} 321 Le aedoorcasceReReBanaan nic anasadbnontmenenecetcSnor écbcuerseeaCaAaas

Book Market Net Unexpended
Value Value Income Balance
$211,834 $272,528 $8,063 $0
76,573 95,358 BA 027/ 0
314,860 354,531 13,238 0
379,730 497 544 14,004 0
116,646 145,503 4,095 0
3,945 5,079 143 0
840,415 1,096,277 31,605 0
1,403,543 1,837,250 Sil 7/2 0
5,778 7,176 233 (0)
697,488 723,601 35,576 0
ANE) SAMS) 2,863,403 80,594 Al
6,244,230 7,898,251 242,290 32,721
5,093,194 5,536,719 155,838 0
74,259,569 83,978,329 MMS)3) Nil 0
40,315 43,847 1,234 0
644 668 333} 0
2,701 3,281 92 0
6,679 8,093 228 0
268,179 323,686 9,110 0
490,595 538,752 15,164 0
134,946 157,603 4,436 0
244,364 289,142 8,138 0
4,864 5,363 151 0
3,356 32927, a7 0
D2 Sil 251,646 7,083 0
1,482,426 1,574,506 34,899 0
2,364 3,066 86 0
628,732 760,837 21,415 65,798
5,261 6,359 179 6,445
SSIS iH 3,697,776 104,079 S727 59
2,348,307 2,635,112 74,169 102,808
38,501 42,425 840 12,621
20,292 22,672 638 4,459
29,943 31,579 659 0
1PO9STAOS2: 1,111,543 31,286 69,478
89,760,966 101,026,931 2,763,014 419,367
$ 96,005,196 $108,925,182 $3,005,304 $ 452,088

Table 13 Endowment Funds September 30, 1987 (Continued)

Principal Income
Book Market Net Unexpended
Value Value Income Balance

RESTRICTED PURPOSE—TRUE:
Arr thine) ATT ES\ oe saree sets eee Peta oreo bio we ctee oes eeremtgaaee eects 189,056 249 204 7,014 9.469
Bairdsopenceskullentonmerrercsrccseecsceccsecseecccetenceeeeetceeene sce reeeaeres 170,495 222,763 6,270 3,619
Ravina, ANNES IPG, IMiSoovormll .ccooccponvpacacsnacasocovongsoscadacacuesonacd 135,514 178,581 5,026 32,080
Batchelonmeimimawls emecreco sees eacas Ga ooses Cacae teedanaeeee te uaesaee sects 161,230 184,723 HRI) 94,759
Beauresards Catheninesmemorialleerreeeteseeaceessa-ceeee testes cesses: 206,375 249,551 7,024 61,174
Bengensy@harlotte Wry eccecnacscscsecteseceaacuecesocceceemecskevaccavasecaste 17,165 18,443 519 1,812
Browne olan daw eerenesnc can cacicnctinntcseens ccconea cceement non mtsaeceeeone 139,859 171,269 4,821 18,739
Gantiel devkred entclepAmeete ne tens cece ene ects cocicoaet ote eat atae deca cutee 198,763 274,566 7,728 308
G@aseyx tihomasiincolme cacncccncecnecere cone so seee csc st eens note dete case ssisecs 66,123 80,006 2252, 3,268
Qhaimloedlaiting, lerances ILA pesancaanncsosonsoosansobanosdesésoasedesooonbooSnOe 133,056 175,344 4,935 26,068
@oopes Eundifor Bal cobiologyse-cemeeeneee sees eeecetee teen tee teen ee 143,527 156,653 4,299 0
Divisioniof WammialsiGurators Rundiesseescscesceecetenseeecccntaneeeceres 9,530 11,213 315 5,406
[Dyrad les IRaybrevaEARHVOYA:» coanebSpacenabanseseaaaaceseasascee mod akHsceccosneaSuLaseneoS 858,502 996,751 27,944 139,145
Drouet, Francis and Louderback, Harold B. Fund ..................... 275,760 297,783 8,382 32,903
Dykesy GharlessBequest jasccec-cccace eee cee cacsecene sea seeteeenseee cence = 254,906 303,192 8,534 21,929
Bickemey er) El OLrences BreVvOOLbspseasseaceeee tice seca ecerenseteeeeesee scene 51,346 67,655 1,904 16,281
IEG OSS, Jeahnyebdal WY/ZIKGlG). bo nncocaéonocoacobeesoanoonaodebbocoarcassoannceocone6on 514,122 534,337 15,040 26,912
RneereGhanlesils sncanwecsccsoncanrenncectnseone cakes nuance iecneasreanc« ces 41,703,675 50,379,611 1,417,999 1,348 336
Grimmi-Sereeti, IN ca. eee ca-cen aesseesesiaseeen eecetst aati iden steeedeadeenegen 144,991 157,843 4,443 28,264
(Girovoynnl, 1eventele W/o oa an toebocasaccbosossec obo Oondde GoGo ancoAacocononcteon 148,050 158,890 4,472 14,240
Guggenheim DantelfandsHlorencebe-nessepeseres see ee seree eee eeeeeeee eee 572,942 644,615 18,144 61,649
Flam tomy Ames a scene sis sans aaattneetanee tas vse sees seldtegecumeecescecssaste 5,216 6,037 240 2,427
Henderson, Edward P., Meteroite Fund .............0000-00-0000-0se0seee 114,775 IML 347/il AAA 336
Flewitty Ee leanorm Gaahep ainihundseere-cenescese rec scesaceteescceercesecsers 34,915 40,528 1,141 1,029
lewitt, Sarah COOpPEr jiccc conse -emeectececoeeciae + ceeeracsbacceraeeeessnceseeines 206,331 239,220 6,733 8,185
ReLilliy ers Wiel! aa cataaye ne qneryaiciet is ae ceciasts mele oos.c sees a saps oeteaaiva wee ciace es 34,674 41,956 iL iltssit 14,636
lUIEGH COCK PA Dents Sie ae aeeccscece nae coanceeeine wosites «vows mesos aeemee scien uoe 7,534 9,983 281 132
Flodekins Runde vere yess gacsocmnmeemea goes aeeenten Seleomnee aueasneceeeies 128,732 133,554 6,568 12,865
EindlickamAlesrandallaniee. ces: cecrccaecneses tact cece tone eacarncecceoterces 253,341 310,249 8,732 12,582
li shesMB Luce im ema-eagsae- see saese se neter os seen ehdes oneseaeeeeesschecsieceres 90,509 119,324 3,359 14,087
Johnson, Seward, Trust Fund for Oceanography ...............00c0e00s 17,284,656 20,953,626 589,767 149,285
Kelloges Remington Mem Onlaluesscercencectetenedeseeecbtaseaest nese sersces 116,751 129,233 3,637 12,426
Karama ary Nal ale eae eee ciicis scrac Saree ESE RAE S nicinrccGn delice ar OEE OneE cece coees 135755) 16,310 459 4,659
Miarxcwrel FS Mary aE sae nies sneec new cnceiiasecnnpisa sie cceass sceeciaeentio.msecutiloae's 92,739 122,258 3,441 40,883
Millikens ie Oothout-» Mem onialiseesseasmecteccscssasneecetaceereesceccer se 1,028 fli 33 114
Minera Mend owimentes--ccssceccccceenereece orc onencbineceeeneeeemiaccericoseeees 469,414 549,064 15,454 76
IMitehellaawaillivambeA cs sgecomccncwecciaacecte ease se oce on ove senna ceeticeomee socmees 64,036 Teyoilatil 2,114 4,914
Nelms Henning, Endowment Bund! ieee e-cer ces -sese sees sete esee= =< 199,869 194,150 455 455
INelsonmedwardawalliamimn.ceesesteccer setae. cone eee ete ee eee eee nee nenene 107,626 138,447 3,897 0
Retrocellimsjosepbas Menonialleernsseee ceca ecce eeeaeeecaeee eee eae ae seer 35,133 46,374 1,305 19,244
Ried eeAcl G1 S@m Ue cgpemerrcrascsincisieecnamereiodat otisk mosiina sien eateldane utesiemeumieneat 107,951 128,152 3,976 9,074
Ripleyao- DilloniandeMary livingstonucesessceseceseteeeeeeeceecee sca se se 139,329 156,537 4,296 0
Roebling Fund: scectereceec senate son ssteeenmeecencceSeneowo nema enereeeeseeee ees 568,621 747,882 21,050 322
RollinssMintamblandawalliam ..cesecceceeeoseecescececeeeeereeeeeceecacecee 1,121,689 1,380,698 38,554 4,681
Sums s "George Wer. sacoscwoccsesncncscacensecnececsessmeseasceedsieeensea=sorencece 107,303 114,337 3,218 4,414
Sprague ibund) .. States tetanscse creases cacttomebeecndeersnceamt eset eat. cs 7,131,608 8,256,114 230,543 40,006
SPrin@ens Pecan kecn cae sore ste ortaeeters sere neeet cecee sccaneremeacine snes cctecs 84,978 111,601 3,141 27,281
Stern aro debe iemonialleeeeenree encore eee eee eee er er eeteee 881,175 1,013,147 28,386 132,564
Stevenson, JohneAs, Mycological Librany aancccsessesesecseeceeecile./ DS29i 30,490 858 2,770
Stuarts Manyslonnen ea.cccaostesscccecmeen reer rence erase Gne seme oelcnss S725736 387,392 10,904 6,004
Walcott: GharlessDs and) Mary Vaux Research) sesesresees-tesrs 2 --% 724,935 879,109 24,500 19,026
Walcott Research Fund, Botanical Publications ...............:2sseeeee 274,939 377,474 10,624 9,053
Williston, Samuel Wendell Diptera Research .................seeese0e0s 18,460 20,568 576 3,083
EET DEE WETANCES, BrIMGKIO sencoeeceaneceee Coe ee eC nee eee eee eeens 4,465 5,868 165 6,298
Subtotal! < joss esiacusecacstvesstisebetionecuicmctuten seeaneoacceneemocctisses 76,919,500 92,360,346 2,593,966 2,509,375

§2
Table 13 Endowment Funds September 30, 1987 (Continued)

Principal Income
Book Market Net Unexpended
Value Value Income Balance

RESTRICTED PURPOSE—QUASI:
AM ITISELOUS ME Wri] AINES Masaseae secstencarecessonscessepeccuenmasraissseccaeece L737 19,539 541 -0-
ini Preiior TATED). ScastcoocedsbanSecesocceetie che He OeCe RE ca eA Rte one ee RAE a tEe 94,775 103,265 2,907 i W/sy7
BACONEMVATOIMIA RULGCY) qecarcecosacactacsceteeesrecsmaccessnettcccses suceecsecss 448,080 518,295 14,588 $6,191
BECKCIMLG COLE Cn Ramet nner co sane cheats on renentiectiseme stones stisecisen Soca ona enone 773,212 897,072 25,249 16,335
ID OSAWIOGIS,, Pail Bis » aa d5ssccqroageec BbadecoSsesede Sonn SEeREABaSSe HepeRe anes case 54,273 (957/11 1,842 -(0-
Gareir, Gomaleyn cae aanasbcocce cn enca es ee nee Pac Re Tee eee Eee ERR nee anne 6,144 7295) 205 3,790
achenberce George brand) Carolines css eesssaseccecnccenescueeeoes sees 22,052 27,268 767 3,910
Fansons Martini Gustav and Garoline Ry ..cc..c-c0ssccesses-ceceeeceanee. 46,880 56,713 1,596 10,101
Hirshhorn Collections Endowment Fund ...............2-20ceeeeeeeeeeees 2,680,538 2,686,530 68,636 76,532
lehamiweralomn JE lon elale cooshaccesbsonoc Soe DOSE UCOn Cn eR OREOSCBCECEC EET EtReaenC 15,568,243 18,635,132 $24,510 278,747
IKCIRIP TER GLOSTER: oanaoanscesaaaScrosOsGAenar ROS ISGE SE aaoR RE SUnBS meen asaeeetetee 951,079 1,049,857 29,336 2769
L@BEIGonservatronlE NGO wIMent sescaccssnees sces ss aes-seaeecesensesesises cine 207,030 226,436 6,352 8,469
J OhinsommMbeB Rash COIMOLE He s-ee ces lass tees aa eoecc ces csmeoceseeceseseosesane 37,686 41,990 1,182 5,241
IL@ AD, INOS. chs caanssnddasadeheero sade taaana A GRAS ee eBeEne crete CE EE Re ener eEnE 463,281 562,463 15,831 67,981
Wonpasanne tens sancdue dithi Ga cnesceccssecscesteccsshececesescetessscsceecs 2,612 3,474 98 593
Mivera@atherine Walden exc cnsroa.ccacsesteeneoaccesinewesesceeccteeecensserece 106,554 128,908 3,628 22,452
INGyesspiram kab Grenier cacescs tess aon itiancedcwe sine sewalnamuinenidevececesneaucteses 5,276 6,497 183 3528)
INES; PARIS onopnassaadoosbbusoddeosbaseenasoosaecn Hascodossspsansoecs 44,641 48,661 1,370 2,353
elia@ornelianlbivime ston) sect seers sectecceecas seeeccas erence seen ceaes secee 39,261 47,589 1pS59 5,999
RamseyaeadmerandiMrss Dewitt Clinton® G.--ssccss-secseoe-secnseeees 983,418 11/736 39,900 18,988
Rath buneiRichardssMemorialer wesces ssaccececn cece attne re see cones ereece 56,278 68,187 1,919 19,614
RoeblinesSolansResearch i) -scettecknciccacecececesacce sccm aeasesssecenecnccsesae 124,620 146,603 4,126 18,665
Rite a bertlan legen seme: fos 2s in, Sasanae ca sons sencceneuuae bees casisnaetete 146,912 163,637 4,606 6,201
Schultzeplbconandsy eererrsnayses. tacos cs aceseecetneescesicacdocudsecenceenscecss SO HUS 68,653 1,845 28,730
SaIGGlll, AGINGRZSTT casccaacbetiadngadenaesscce decor baSHE aR CCoana nae Bm ap eS nCAEBHOAS 3,062,908 3,544,169 MSS 333,945
SniithsonianeAeency, ACCOUNt eesrere reese sresectes teeeeceeoeeeesecreceeseeeee 1,451,189 1,645,341 47,478 64
Seon sap] lias) Maeeeectreeet ten seascnaeaac seecoeacuate ees oo ttesneasanoeenodcne 52,890 64,074 1,803 4,752
Witherspoon, Dhomas| AG. Memorial) <2....0.-csceene seer esos sree seeseere- 679,885 822,146 23,140 81,337
Gulati) Ceacdasccsadencode rasan an saae casos GhAaAte accnannceaneeraBrecenTanes 28,186,069 32,835,241 924,736 1,103,390
MotalpRestricteddbunposelerssssceceeee teccete ete saert ee cec reece reee $105,105,569 $125,195,587 $3,518,702 $3,612,765
MOMATAEIND OWMENTOEWINDS maccccicccccceee cco ccccoceeneccee scene $201,110,765 $234,120,769 $6,524,006** $4,064,853

*Invested all or in part in U.S. Treasury or other nonpooled investments.
**Total Return Income Payout; does not include $278,384 of interest income.

Coopers & Lybrand
Certified Public Accountants

To the Board of Regents
Smithsonian Institution

We have examined the statement of financial condition of
the Smithsonian Institution—Trust Funds as of Septem-
ber 30, 1987, and the related statement of financial activ-
ity for the year then ended. Our examination was made
in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards
and, accordingly, included such tests of the accounting
records and such other auditing procedures as we consid-
ered necessary in the circumstances. We previously
examined and reported upon the statements of the Smith-
sonian Institution—Trust Funds for the year ended Sep-
tember 30, 1986, totals of which are included in the
accompanying financial statements for comparative pur-
poses only.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to
above, present fairly the financial position of the Smith-
sonian Institution—Trust Funds as of September 30,
1987, and the results of its operations and changes in its
fund balances for the year then ended, in conformity with
generally accepted accounting principles applied on a ba-
sis consistent with that of the preceding year.

1800 M Street, N. W.

Washington, D. C. 20036
December 31, 1987

54
Smithsonian Institution Statement of Financial Condition
September 30, 1987 (with comparative totals for September 30, 1986)
(thousands of dollars)

Trust Federal Totals, Totals,
funds funds all funds 1986
ASSETS:
Fund balances with U. S.
lireasunysand icashvoml hand yeocgaecsseaeseiue acacia sions cisewncec soateecscineeseemoncasceee $ 3,244 $ 83,328 $ 86,572 $ 79,433
Investments (Notes 1, 3
ATIC LG) MRR SEE eee cPS Pah recat san alsistre Seas ee Sa a ce CME MOMS oo Bea ten Eee 278,201 — 278,201 220,190
Receivab lesa (INO ea) aaecacceceteac nce mesa ences oteee ane costae Nese bate ven nace eee nase 35,206 8,393 43,599 43,969
AN AVATIGENpPayIMentsi (NOLEN) taemesstsscmese-aceneresseecceecersenesmaatscmdetsestnces renee 360 18,341 18,701 15,605
Merchandiseunventory: (Note il!) /Meeccccscs-accdccesnsacecacteesseeseceeceeescstceccchene ce 12,001 — 12,001 11,140
Matenialsrand supplies inventory: (NOt) seccssceceacusecceesaeessseceeeeesenuseceere — 1,412 1,412 1,421
Prepaidnceterrediexpense angi other (Note ll) eesessssescee sees eeseeeeeeeeee terse eeee: 13,911 — 133911 13,952
Property;andiequipment (Notes land) 7) see-:-eecaeee sence sescenees- cece seceesece eee 56,194 221,629 277,823 258,097
TIGA ESEUS. acenonecoanbosecnedaac sesoabunsseScs ne diccoccdo oneDdEL Udecebebeonseneod $399,117 $333,103 $732,220 $643,807
LIABILITIES:
Accounts payable and accrued expenses, including interfund payable of
SNS O4 OA CO0) daeacebosacoade coger BAaGas socoR a HaERAa Sea tai aAnp Iunecsafaso panes psccesrncoBenee $932,396 S$) 176609) 9S) SO2005) $s 525139
Deposits held in custody for other organizations (Note 2) .............0ee0eeeeee es 4,395 41 4,436 4,099
AccniedsaniniralsleaveyINOfEu)) | pmsneseccesacesosecaeec cee coseercncasteeee an secaceneseneeee 2,182 8,199 10,381 9.736
ID aiemaacl iwanemure (UN koivert|)) cecanedaeoocososeneecuocenceeebboooueTodeaconasoaseebononusanodss 33,625 _— 33,625 30,999
ong-termidebti(INOtes8)) aceccnccncsnecesecencenscccnasdessecisas seaancechien-aecesaabiseeness- 13,812 —_— 13,812 3,748
ito calbliabilittestenevsctr ee cacao tence ene reer on ae rece eOee orn ere ceneas 86,410 25,849 12A259 100,721
Windeliverediorgersi(INOterl))|. cian stat se sencoccutceeec teen totem acac cee re wee seceeeemec eters — 67,277 67,277 59,368
FUND BALANCES (Note 1):
Trust funds:
Current:
Winzestrictedsseneralipurpose mecaeeeecenacec ee aeeeeeeee eee eeceecen see eec eee reas 5,176 _— 5,176 2,044
Spectali purpOSe -sesetescciasaswaniaee seeegest ess daz eeeanenevassataane ccntesesseestereeens 33,759 — 3/59) 24,645
IEC RALELURG|  Saps ntoaaadaocARenGOsaBaSbbee HOU Cetra cas ABHO BAGO RACES ECA ORS ac SBHAE HERE ec Suse 13,769 — 13,769 9.656
EngowmentranGisimilantundsi(NOteA)meeseescercceecees sector ceetecceeeee coer rene: 201,111 — 201,111 161,997
Plantafundsu (NO fer4)eetaaseseerteeseaccnaccechcoeane cee bien <dins eins senoce cram actbeheameceee 58,892 — 58,892 $3,007
Motalbenustarundibalancesesresnasecseccceetee ene ee a eeen ee nce een ene 312,707 — 312,707 251,349
Federal funds:
@pexatingetunds ——arestricted|(INotes9) messeeseceseaeraeeeereecee ser eeeeeeeeeececereeee ee = 388 388 2,316
@onstructlonifundsernecescctccessececsece een eae hose mek aceh coraseticce eireuseecnesesmeonse — 16,547 16,547 15,952
Gapital funds ccasvs ita scensnceesvepiasctitest ania can aat stemeundiassahincmannnaaeesteeeeaelsneiecer — 223,042 223,042 214,101
Motall federalifundibalancesssesceeceteceeeeeeee rece oneeteee nce eneecreenee — BTA 23D). 232,369
Motalkfindibalancesyercescecccac eee eee cee ees ceraes 312,707 D3) HT! 552,684 483,718
Total liabilities, undelivered orders and fund balances ................ecececeeeeeeeeee $399 UZ S33) 10ST S7S22220) S645, 807

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.
Smithsonian Institution Statement of Financial Activity for the year ended September 30, 1987

(with comparative totals for the year ended September 30, 1986) (thousands of dollars)

Trust funds

Endowment
Totals, and Totals,
trust Current similar Plant federal
funds funds funds funds funds
REVENUE AND OTHER ADDITIONS:
A\p pro pLlatlonsiereseess eee sce ste aasee ee $ — $ _— $ — $ — $210,544
Auxiliary activities revenue ............. 161,740 161,740 — — —
Government grants and contracts ..... 15,873 15,873 — — —
InvestmentimCOmeecssceesceeeeeeecee eee 12,491 11,278 — 1,213 —
Net gain on sale of securities
2WNGl jSIRO}BLENGY? Goosonbudcoassosacosotaannode 35,315 — 35,315) — _—
Gifts, bequests and foundation
SIAM eee eee eras gece soa se esse neeaninnen 19,330 14,841 336 4,153 —
ANd ditionsitolplautee.ssee--cessseseeneee oe 8,088 — _ 8,088 27,837
Rentals, fees, commissions
ANGOthen -asc.cansooneamwswesasheanece es 8,000 8,000 -- — 1,728
Total revenue and other additions .... 260,837 Mili 7/32 35,651 13,454 240,109
EXPENDITURES AND OTHER
DEDUCTIONS:
Research, educational, and collection
acquisition expenditures (Note 10) 45,707 45,707 = — 121,070
Administrative expenditures ............ 12,878 12,878 — — 15,789
Facilities services expenditures ......... 2,072 2,072 — — 55,428
Auxiliary activities expenditures ....... 13150938 131,093 _ _ —
Acquisition of plant and other ......... 6,556 — -- 6,556 20,975
Property use and retirements
(INOTER inca toescorme access ceccas ec emenuaes 1) 57/8} _ — 1,173 18,896
Retirement of and interest on
INGEHtEGMESS! sccaceesesconsemaneseee tees: —_ —_ — — —
Total expenditures and
other deductions ............ 199,479 191,750 — VD 232,158
Excess of revenue and
other additions over
expenditures and other
Geductionstc.ss-sseeeeseeeeree 61,358 19,982 35,651 3,729) 7,951
TRANSFERS AMONG FUNDS—
ADDITIONS (DEDUCTIONS) (Note 11)
oa (3,623) 3,463 160 —
Net increase
(decrease) for the year ..... 61,358 16,359 39,114 5,885 WS
Retunedito We Ss lireasury treats — — —_ — (343)
Fund balances at beginning of year ... 251,349 36,345 161,997 53,007 232,369
Fund balances at end of year (Note 9) $312,707 $ $2,704 $201,111 $ 58,892 $239,977

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.
Federal Funds

Totals,

Operating Construction Capital all Totals,
funds funds funds funds 1986
$188,974 $21,570 $ — $210,544 $191,383

— — _ 161,740 149,313

= = = 15,873 15,534

— — — 12,491 11,988

— — — 35,315 15,478

— — — 19,330 11,707

= — 27,837 35,925 40,538
1,728 — = 9,728 7,481
190,702 21,570 27,837 500,946 443,422
121,070 —_— — 166,777 154,467
15,789 — = 28,667 24,619
55,428 _ — §7,500 51,500
— = _ 131,093 125,381

— 20,975 — 27,531 30,465

— — 18,896 20,069 18,400

— — = = 167
192,287 20,975 18,896 431,637 404,999
(1,585) 595 8,941 69,309 38,423
(1,585) 595 8,941 69,309 38,423
(343) = _ (343) (185)
2,316 IS 52 214,101 483,718 445,480

$ 388 $ 16,547 $223,042 $552,684 $483,718

Smithsonian Institution Notes to Financial Statements
1. Summary of significant accounting policies
Basis of Presentation

The financial statements do not include the accounts of
the National Gallery of Art, the John F. Kennedy Center
for the Performing Arts or the Woodrow Wilson Interna-
tional Center for Scholars, which were established by
Congress within the Smithsonian Institution (the Institu-
tion) but are administered under separate boards of
trustees.

The financial statements of the Institution with respect
to Federal Appropriations have been prepared on the ob-
ligation basis of accounting, which is in accordance with
accounting principles prescribed by the Comptroller Gen-
eral of the United States as set forth in the Policy and
Procedures Manual for Guidance of Federal Agencies.
The obligation basis of accounting differs in some re-
spects from generally accepted accounting principles.
Under this method of accounting, approximately
$51,427,000 of commitments of the operating fund, such
as purchase orders and contracts, have been recognized
as expenditures, and the related obligations have been
reported on the Statement of Financial Condition at Sep-
tember 30, 1987 even though the goods and services have
not been received. Approximately $13,000,000 of these
commitments are for grants under the foreign currency
program. Approximately $15,500,000 of these commit-
ments are for internal storage facilities and equipment at
the Museum Support Center. In addition, construction
fund commitments for other projects amounted to ap-
proximately $15,850,000 at September 30, 1987.

The trust funds reflect the receipt and expenditure of
funds obtained from private sources, federal grants and
contracts, investment income and certain business activi-
ties related to the operations of the Institution.

Fund Accounting

To ensure observance of the limitations and restrictions
placed on the use of resources available to the Institution,
accounts are maintained in accordance with the principles
of fund accounting. This procedure classifies resources
for control, accounting and reporting purposes into dis-
tinct funds established according to their appropriation,
nature and purposes. Funds that have similar characteris-
tics have been combined into fund groups in the accom-
panying financial statements. Accordingly, all financial

58

transactions have been recorded and reported by fund
group.

The assets, liabilities and fund balances of the Institu-
tion are self-balancing as follows:

Federal operating funds represent the portion of ex-
pendable funds available for support of Institution
Operations.

Federal construction funds represent that portion of ex-
pendable funds available for building and facility con-
struction, restoration, renovation and repair. Separate
subfund groups are maintained for each appropriation—
Construction and Improvements, National Zoological
Park, Restoration and Renovation of Buildings, Museum
Support Center and the Center for African, Near East-
ern, and Asian Cultures (Quadrangle).

Federal capital funds represent the value of those assets
of the Institution acquired with federal funds and nonex-
pendable property transfers from government agencies.

Trust current funds, which include unrestricted and re-
stricted resources, represent the portion of expendable
funds that is available for support of Institution opera-
tions. Amounts restricted by the donor for specific pur-
poses are segregated from other current funds.

Trust endowment and similar funds include funds that
are subject to restrictions of gift instruments requiring in
perpetuity that the principal be invested and the income
only be used. Also classified as endowment and similar
funds are gifts which allow the expenditure of principal
but only under certain specified conditions. Quasi-en-
dowment funds are funds established by the governing
board for the same purposes as endowment funds; how-
ever, any portion of such funds may be expended. Re-
stricted quasi-endowment funds represent gifts for
restricted purposes where there is no stipulation that the
principal be maintained in perpetuity or for a period of
time, but the governing board has elected to invest the
principal and expend only the income for the purpose
stipulated by the donor.

Trust plant funds represent resources restricted for fu-
ture plant acquisitions and funds expended for plant.

Investments

All gains and losses arising from the sale, collection or
other disposition of investments and property are ac-
counted for in the fund in which the related assets are
recorded. Income from investments is accounted for in a
similar manner, except for income derived from invest-
ments of endowment and similar funds, which is ac-
counted for in the fund to which it is restricted or, if
unrestricted, as revenue in unrestricted current funds.
Gains and losses on the sale of investments are recog-
nized on the trade date basis using the average cost
method.

Inventory

Inventories are carried at the lower of cost or market.
Cost is determined using the first-in, first-out (FIFO)
method or retail cost method (for those inventories held
for resale).

Deferred Revenue and Expense

Revenue from subscriptions to Smithsonian Magazine is
recorded as income over the period of the related sub-
scription, which is generally one year. Costs related to
obtaining subscriptions to Smithsonian Magazine are
charged against income over the period of the
subscription.

The Institution recognizes revenue and charges ex-
penses of other auxiliary activities during the period in
which the activity is conducted.

Works of Art, Living or Other Specimens

The Institution acquires its collections, which include
works of art, library books, photographic archives, ob-
jects and specimens, through purchase by federal or pri-
vate funds or by donation. In accordance with policies
generally followed by museums, no value is assigned to
the collections on the statement of financial condition.
Purchases for the collections are expensed currently.

Property and Equipment

Nonexpendable equipment purchased with federal funds
is recorded at cost and is depreciated on a straight-line
basis over a period of 10 years. Equipment purchased
with trust funds for use by nonincome-producing activi-
ties is treated as a deduction of the current fund and as a
capitalized cost of the plant fund. Depreciation on equip-

ment capitalized in the plant fund is recorded on a
straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of 10
years (see Note 7). Capital improvements and equipment
purchased with trust funds and utilized in income-pro-
ducing activities are capitalized at cost and are depreci-
ated on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful
lives of 3 to 10 years.

Buildings and other structures, additions to buildings
and fixed equipment purchased with federal funds are
recorded in the capital funds at cost and depreciated on a
straight-line basis over a period of 30 years. Costs associ-
ated with renovating, restoring and improving structures
are depreciated over their useful lives of 15 years.

Certain lands occupied by the Institution’s buildings
were appropriated and reserved by Congress for the
Smithsonian and are not reflected in the accompanying
financial statements. Property and nonexpendable equip-
ment acquired through transfer from government agen-
cies are capitalized at the transfer price or at estimated
amounts, taking into consideration usefulness, condition
and market value.

Real estate (land and buildings) purchased with trust
funds is recorded at cost, to the extent that restricted or
unrestricted funds were expended therefor, or appraised
value at date of gift, except for gifts of certain islands in
the Chesapeake Bay and the Carnegie Mansion, which
have been recorded at nominal values. Costs of original
building structures and major additions are depreciated
on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives of
30 years. Costs of renovating, restoring and improving
structures are depreciated on a straight-line basis over
their estimated useful lives of 15 years. Depreciation is
recorded in the plant funds as a deduction to the invest-
ment in plant (see Note 7).

Government Grants and Contracts

The Institution has a number of grants and contracts
with the U.S. Government, which primarily provide for
cost reimbursement to the Institution. Grant and contract
revenue is recognized as expenditures are incurred within
trust funds.

Pledges and Donations
The Institution records significant pledges that are sup-
ported by letters signed by donors. Pledges are recorded

at net realizable value as a receivable and as deferred

59
revenue on the statement of financial condition. Revenue
from pledges is recognized in the year the pledge funds
are collected.

Donations are recognized as revenue in the year the
cash is received.

Contributed Services

A substantial number of unpaid volunteers have made
significant contributions of their time in the furtherance
of the Institution’s programs. The value of this contrib-
uted time is not reflected in these statements in accor-
dance with generally accepted accounting principles.

Annual Leave

The Institution’s civil service employees earn annual leave
in accordance with federal law and regulations. How-
ever, only the cost of leave taken as salaries is funded and
recorded as an expense. The cost of unused annual leave
at year-end is reflected in the accompanying financial
statements as an asset and accrued liability in the federal
funds.

Annual leave is recorded for trust employees in the
trust fund as earned.

2. Related Activities

The Institution provides fiscal and administrative services
to several, separately incorporated organizations in which
certain officials of the Institution serve on the governing
boards. The amounts paid to the Institution by these or-
ganizations for the aforementioned services, together
with rent for Institution facilities occupied, etc., totaled
approximately $351,000 ($276,000 for the trust funds
and $75,000 for the federal funds) for the year ended
September 30, 1987. Deposits held in custody for these
organizations are approximately $4,395,000 as of Sep-
tember 30, 1987.

The following summarizes the approximate expendi-
tures of these organizations for the fiscal year ended Sep-
tember 30, 1987 as reflected in their individual financial
statements, which are not included in the accompanying
financial statements of the Institution:

60

Reading Is Fundamental, Inc. $6,635,000
Woodrow Wilson International
Center for Scholars:
Trust funds $5,186,000
Federal appropriations $3,362,000

3. Investments

Investments are recorded at cost on a trade date basis, if
purchased, or estimated fair market value at date of ac-

quisition, if acquired by gift. At September 30, 1987, in-
vestments were composed of the following:

Carrying Market
value value
($000s) ($000s)

Current funds:
Short-term cash equivalents $ 52,008 $ 52,008
U.S. Government and quasi-

government obligations 26,151 26,325
Common and preferred stock 108 106
78,267 78,439

Endowment and similar funds:
Short-term cash equivalents Wey As) 23 e25)

Deposit with U. S. Treasury (0535 1,093
U. S. Government and quasi-

government obligations 31,708 30,672
Corporate bonds 20) 11,625
Common and preferred stock 132,774 166,261

1995782 282
Plant funds:
U. S. Government and quasi-
government obligations Dif DY,
Common stock 125 125
152 152

Total investments $278,201 $311,367

Since October 1, 1982, the deposit with the U. S.
Treasury has been invested in U.S. Government securities
at a variable yield based on market rates.

Substantially all the investments of the endowment and
similar funds are pooled on a market value basis (consoli-
dated fund) with each individual fund subscribing to or
disposing of units on the basis of the per unit market
value at the beginning of the month within which the
transaction takes place. The unit value as of September
30, 1987 was $330.06; 301,067 units were owned by en-
dowment, and 404,107 units were owned by quasi-en-
dowment at September 30, 1987.

The following tabulation summarizes changes in rela-
tionships between cost and market values of the pooled
investments (including adjustments for nonpooled invest-
ments such as the deposit with the U.S. Treasury, land
held for investment and notes receivable of the endow-
ment fund and pooled assets such as interfund
receivables):

($000s) Market
Net value
Market Cost change per unit

End of year $232,751 $199,778
Beginning of

year $179,790 $160,626
Increase in

unrealized

net gain

for the

year 13,809 —
Realized net

gain for

the year

Net Change

$ 32,973 $330.06

19,164 259.24

IIIS —
$ 49,124 $ 70.82

4. Endowment and Similar Funds

The fund balances for the endowment and similar funds
at September 30, 1987 are summarized as follows:

($000s)
Endowment funds, income available for:
Restricted purposes $ 76,920
Unrestricted purposes 6,244
83,164
Quasi-endowment funds, principal and
income available for:
Restricted purposes 28,186
Unrestricted purposes 89,761
117,947
Total endowment and similar funds $201,111

The Institution utilizes the “total return” approach to
investment management of endowment funds and quasi-

endowment funds. Under this approach, the total invest-
ment return is considered to include realized and unreal-
ized gains and losses in addition to interest and
dividends. An amount equal to the difference between
interest and dividends earned during the year and the
amount computed under the total return formula is trans-
ferred to or from the current funds.

In applying this approach, it is the Institution’s policy
to provide, as being available for current expenditures,
an amount taking into consideration such factors as, but
not limited to: (1) 4'/2% of the five-year average of the
market value of each fund (adjusted for gifts and trans-
fers during this period), (2) current dividend and interest
yield, (3) support needs for bureaus and scientists, and (4)
inflationary factors as measured by the Consumer Price
Index; however, where the market value of the assets of
any endowment fund is less than 110% of the historic
dollar value (value of gifts at date of donation), the
amount provided is limited to only interest and dividends
received.

The total return factor for 1987 was 5% or $9.29 per
unit to all participating funds. The total return applied
for 1987 was $3,511,000 to Restricted Funds and
$2,949,000 to Unrestricted Funds.

5. Receivables

Receivables at September 30, 1987 included the following:

($000s)
Federal funds <n
Amount to be provided for accrued annual
leave BS SY)
Service fees and charges 194
8,393
Trust funds
Accounts receivable, auxiliary activities, net 11,470
Interfund receivables due from current funds:
Endowment and similar funds 1,050
Plant funds 14,290
Interest and dividends receivable DP
Billed and unbilled costs and fees from
grants and contracts 4,739
Pledges 845
Other 40
35,206
Total, all funds $43,599

61
6. Advance Payments

Advance payments represent prepayments made to gov-
ernment agencies, educational institutions, firms and in-
dividuals for services to be rendered, or property or
materials to be furnished.

As of September 30, 1987, the Institution had advances
outstanding to the General Services Administration of ap-
proximately $15,181,000, principally for construction
services including the Museum Support Center and other
projects to be completed in future fiscal years. The Insti-
tution at that date also had advances outstanding to edu-
cational institutions amounting to approximately
$2,565,000, principally under the Special Foreign Cur-
rency Program.

7. Property and Equipment

At September 30, 1987, property and equipment were
comprised of the following:

_($000s) _($000s) _
Federal
Capital funds
Property $329,272
Equipment 37,487
Less accumulated
depreciation (145,130)
Total, federal funds $221,629
Trust
Current funds
Capital improvements 9,343
Equipment 7,258
Leasehold improvements 1,558
Less accumulated
depreciation and
amortization (7,372)
10,787
Endowment and similar funds
Land 240
Plant funds
Land and buildings 48,517
Equipment 5,515
Less accumulated depreciation (8,865)
45,167
Total, trust funds $ 56,194
Total, all funds $277,823

62

Included in the accumulated depreciation of the federal
capital funds is approximately $15,568,000 of deprecia-
tion expense for 1987.

Trust funds’ depreciation and amortization expense for
fiscal year 1987 for income-producing assets amounted to
approximately $1,873,000 which is included in auxiliary
activities expenditures in the current funds. Depreciation
of nonincome-producing equipment and buildings for
1987 amounted to approximately $1,173,000.

The balance of the plant fund at September 30, 1987
included approximately $13,725,000 of unexpended trust
plant funds.

8. Long-term Debt

Long-term debt as of September 30, 1987 consists of the
following:

($000s)
9% note payable to Riggs National Bank,
interest only payable quarterly com-
mencing December 31, 1986, interest
and principal payable quarterly com-
mencing September 30, 1991 and ending
on June 30, 1998
Noninterest-bearing note payable for the
purchase of art, due in four annual in-
stallments commencing January 9, 1986
and ending January 10, 1989, security
interest in the art purchased retained by
the lender
Noninterest-bearing note payable for pur-
chase of food service equipment, due
monthly commencing September 18,
1987 through July 21, 1990 412
9% note payable for purchase of Folk-
ways Records and Service Corporation,
due in four annual installments com-
mencing December 31, 1987 400

$13,812

$11,000

$ 2,000

The aggregate amount of maturities for all borrowings
for the years ending September 30, are as follows:
$1,750,000 in 1988; $750,000 in 1989; $212,000 in 1990;
$386,000 in 1991; $1,211,000 in 1992; and $9,503,000 in
years thereafter.

The proceeds of the note with Riggs National Bank are
being used to fund construction of a restaurant addition
to the National Air and Space Museum. Interest on the
note was approximately $806,000 for fiscal year 1987 of
which $654,000 was recorded as interest expense of the
Auxiliary Activities funds and $152,000 was capitalized
as a cost of the restaurant.

9. Federal Operating Funds

The federal operating funds include appropriations for
salaries and expenses which are expended in the year re-
ceived. Also included are amounts received with the pro-
vision that such amounts can be expended over a period
greater than one year.

The federal operating funds for the year ended
September 30, 1987 included the following:

Fund
ah Balance
Additions ($000s) at
Appro- Sept. 30,
priations Other 1987
Salaries and expenses $188,974 $ —  § —

Special Foreign Cur-

rency Program — — 73)
U.S. India Fund (trans-

fers from Department

of State) = 1,585 141
Smithsonian Tropical
Research Institute -- 143 74

$188,974 $1,728 $388

to. Collection Acquisitions

In keeping with accounting principles, the Institution re-
cords the acquisition of collections as an expense in the
year of purchase. For fiscal year 1987, $5,218,000 was
expensed to Trust funds and $1,528,000 to federal funds
for the acquisition of collections.

11. Transfers Among Funds
The following transfers among trust funds were made for

the year ended September 30, 1987 in thousands of
dollars:

Endow-
ment
and
similar Plant
Unrestricted Restricted funds funds

Current funds

Portion of
investment
yield appro-
priated $ (28) SQ) $ 30 S$ =

Income added
to endow-
ment
principal (1) (181) 182 —

For special
purposes 267 (12) (255)

Endowment
released — 65 (480) 415

Appropriated
as quasi-
endowment

Total transfers
among funds

(3,278) (453) soso --

$(3,040) $(583) $3,463 $160

12. Retirement Plans

The federal employees of the Institution are covered by
either the Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) or the
Federal Employee Retirement System (FERS). The fea-
tures of both of these systems are defined in published
government documents. Under both systems, the Institu-
tion withholds from the salary of each federal employee
the percentage of salary specified by each program, and
the Institution contributes specified percentages. The cost
of the programs for the year ended September 30, 1987
was approximately $7,774,000.

The Institution has a separate retirement plan for trust
employees. Under the plan, both the Institution and the
employees contribute stipulated percentages of salary
which are used to purchase individual annuities, the
rights to which are immediately vested with the employ-
ees. The cost of the plan for the year ended September
30, 1987 was $4,092,000.

It is the policy of the Institution to fund the accrued
costs of the plans currently. There are no unfunded prior
service costs under the plans.

63
13. Income Taxes

The Institution is exempt from income taxation under the
provisions of Section s5o01(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue
Code. Organizations described in that section are taxable
only on their unrelated business income. No provision
for income taxes is required for the year ended September
30, 1987 since the Institution had a net loss from unre-
lated business activity.

It is the opinion of the Institution that it is also exempt
from taxation as an instrumentality of the United States
as defined in Section 5o1(c)(1) of the Code. Organizations
described in that section are exempt from all income tax-
ation. The Institution has not as yet formally sought such
dual status.

14. Reclassifications
Certain reclassifications were made to previously re-

ported 1986 amounts to conform with the 1987
presentation.

15. Commitments

Contractual commitments of Trust funds as of September
30, 1987 were approximately $14,000,000 in excess of
costs incurred. The commitments pertain to construction
and major maintenance projects.

16. Subsequent Event

The stock market declined significantly in October 1987.
The market value of the Institution’s investments in en-
dowment and similar funds declined approximately
$44,000,000 or 19% from September 30, 1987 to Decem-
ber 31, 1987. The Dow Jones Industrial Average declined
25% for the same period.
RESEARCH

David Challinor, Assistant Secretary for Research

65
Joseph Henry Papers

The correspondence and private papers of Joseph Henry
(1797-1878) thoroughly document his roles as a leader of
the nineteenth-century American scientific community
and as the first Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution
(1846-1878). Under the joint sponsorship of the Smith-
sonian, the National Academy of Sciences, and the Amer-
ican Philosophical Society, the Joseph Henry Papers
project is preparing a selective edition of these important
records. When completed, the series will comprise fifteen
volumes. The first five volumes, tracing Henry’s early
years in Albany and his career as professor of natural
philosophy at the College of New Jersey (now Princeton
University), have received favorable reviews and praise
from scholars studying the growth of American science
and society.

During 1987, the project staff neared completion of the
sixth volume, which will cover 1844-1846 and will trace
the events leading to Henry’s selection as Secretary of the
Smithsonian Institution. New office automation equip-
ment installed in the past year provides flexibility and
reduces the time the staff needs to review, edit, and revise
documents for publication. An able corps of volunteers
began a long-term project to transcribe Henry’s daily
desk diaries. Spanning 1849 to 1876, these diaries contain
intimate and revealing insights into Henry’s work as Sec-
retary as he guided the Smithsonian through its first three
decades.

The project continued its education outreach and coop-
erative activities. Three summer interns received instruc-
tion in documentary editing techniques while they
conducted research on various topics relating to Henry
and the Smithsonian. Scholars from the United States,
Australia, and the Federal Republic of Germany partici-
pated in the Nineteenth-Century Seminar, sponsored by
the project, discussing topics in scientific, intellectual,
cultural, social, and technological history.

Dr. Paul Theerman, an assistant editor with the proj-
ect, served as guest curator for the exhibition “Isaac
Newton and the Principia: Three Hundred Years,” which
opened in March at the National Museum of American
History. In connection with the exhibition, Theerman
also organized a symposium at the University of Mary-
land to examine Newton’s impact on the development of
science, society, and culture.

66

National Zoological Park

The National Zoological Park (NZP) is evolving rapidly
into a biological park, stressing the diversity and interde-
pendence of plants and animals. New exhibits do away
with the unnatural separation of plants and animals that
characterizes most zoos, broaden appreciation for the an-
imal kingdom’s lesser-known members, and underscore the
ecological and evolutionary relationships among organisms.

These aims are embodied in the zoo’s Invertebrate Ex-
hibit, which opened in 1987 at NZP’s 163-acre Rock
Creek facility in Washington, D.C. For many visitors, the
novel exhibit is their introduction to cuttlefish, amoebas,
sponges, and other interesting representatives of the more
than 95 percent of animal species that do not have
backbones.

Also in 1987, studies at Rock Creek and the 3,000-acre
Conservation and Research Center in Front Royal, Vir-
ginia, furthered NZP’s efforts to advance understanding
in the biological and veterinary sciences and to preserve
the Earth’s natural diversity. These on-site activities were
complemented by work done cooperatively with other
zoos and research organizations in the United States and
other nations.

Animal Exhibits

Animal exhibits are the NZP’s primary means of educat-
ing the general public about animal welfare and behav-
ior, about biological principles and relationships, and
about the role of humans within the natural world. The
exhibits at Rock Creek appeal to both serious-minded
zoogoers and to visitors on recreational outings.

The opening of the Invertebrate Exhibit in 1987
marked a major step toward transforming the National
Zoo into a biological park. Complementing quality ex-
hibits of vertebrate animals—birds, mammals, reptiles,
and amphibians—the new three-hall display gives long-
overdue attention to the members of the animal kingdom
that play key roles in maintaining the balance of life on
Earth. The broad assortment includes specimens of ma-
rine invertebrates such as corals, octopuses, sea worms,
and nautiluses. Among the terrestrial representatives are
leaf-cutter ants, orb-web spiders, and stick insects. Ac-
companying graphics and displays foster understanding

In July, a female calf was born to the National Zoo’s Massai
giraffes. The birth occurred in midmorning, in full view of
many early visitors.
67
of biological processes, explaining adaptation, communi-
cation, ecology, speciation, and relationships between
predator and prey. A series of 65-gallon aquariums allow
interested visitors to study invertebrate adaptation. Flash-
lights, hand lenses, and microscopes are provided to en-
hance observation.

Video displays of microscopic plants and animals,
computerized systems for identifying insects, and hands-
on experiments are a few of the techniques used to nur-
ture visitor interest and learning. These and other inno-
vative educational tools will be incorporated into NZP
exhibits now under development.

The projects furthest along are the new Gibbon Island
Exhibit and renovation of the waterfowl wetlands. The
gibbon exhibit will be located on a wooded ridge, a natu-
ralistic stage for the endangered forest apes, which will
capture visitor interest with their spectacular movements
and territorial calls. Situated in front of the Bird House,
the Wetlands Exhibit is undergoing changes to improve
the environment of its avian residents. Each spring, visi-
tors will be able to observe the elaborate courtship rituals
of ducks, geese, and swans.

Conceptual work on the Amazonian Aquatic Exhibit,
the first phase of a planned aquatics complex, progressed
in 1987. The Amazon River is the world’s most diverse
freshwater habitat—in terms of numbers of species, hy-
drology, and ecology. The river is inextricably tied to its
surrounding environment, the largest continuous expanse
of tropical forest, with an unparalleled diversity of life.

The Smithsonian’s unrivaled expertise in tropical biology
will be celebrated in the exhibit, and it will inform and
guide the design of the exhibit.

In 1987, Zoo visitors could view more than thirty-three
hundred mammals, birds, reptiles, and amphibians and
more than fifteen hundred invertebrates. The number of
births is an indication of the quality of care given these
animals and those at the Conservation and Research Cen-
ter. The 1,326 births in 1987—a 5 percent increase over
the previous year—delighted Rock Creek visitors and bol-
stered NZP’s stocks of threatened and endangered spe-
cies. Among the newborns were a giraffe, saurus crane,
and dwarf caiman, as well as cuttlefish and several
golden-headed tamarins and small-clawed otters. More
than 850 of the young animals were traded or sold to
other zoos for their exhibits and breeding programs.

While very successful overall, the NZP’s breeding pro-
gram suffered a major setback in June, with the death of
twin cubs born to the Zoo’s giant panda Ling-Ling. One
cub died almost immediately after birth, apparently from
being undersized, but the second appeared strong enough
to survive. For seventy-two hours, the newborn’s condi-
tion and Ling-Ling’s maternal vigilance raised the hopes
of the NZP staff and of the millions of interested onlook-
ers who monitored the cub’s progress through news re-
ports. On the third day, however, the cub died suddenly,
succumbing to a systemic infection contracted after birth.
Results of postmortem studies carried out by NZP staff
are being used to guide efforts to improve survival pros-
pects in the event of another giant panda birth.

With a gift from the people of Nepal, the NZP added
two greater one-horned rhinoceroses to its collection.
The young females, symbols of appreciation for the
Smithsonian’s contributions to Nepal’s efforts to preserve
its Royal Chitawan National Park, are expected to be-
come part of a breeding program that will rebuild the
Zoo’s herd of Asian rhinos.

Registrar

The NZP is an important part of international efforts to
track the genetic backgrounds of animals in captivity. For
many years, the NZP’s Registrar has contributed to the

These three kittens born at the National Zoo are from the first
group of felids ever produced by in vitro fertilization—a vital
first step in the long-term effort to save their endangered wild
cousins.

development of the International Species Inventory Sys-
tem, a computerized recordkeeping system for managing
and exchanging this essential information. In-house man-
agement of information is done with the Animal Records
Keeping System (ARKS), which the NZP helped pioneer
with the aid of a grant from the Smithsonian’s Office of
Information Resource Management. More than one hun-
dred zoos have adopted ARKS. In 1987, seven of the
NZP’s eight animal-records desks used the microcom-
puter-based system for entering daily inventories; and for
the first time, ARKS was used to produce the zoo’s an-
nual inventory.

In addition to keeping track of the number of annual
births at the Zoo, the annual inventory (completed De-
cember 31, 1986) showed that the NZP acquired 2,025
animals. Of these, 1,524 were specimens for the new in-
vertebrate collection. Other new additions included cam-
els, golden-headed tamarins, beavers, Patagonian cavies,
and pheasant pigeons.

Conservation

The Conservation and Research Center (CRC) leads the
NZP’s long-standing efforts to save threatened and en-
dangered animal species. The center’s activities encom-
pass propagation of rare animals, studies of strategies
and techniques for enhancing breeding success, studies of
the underlying causes of a species’ demise in the wild,
and training programs to strengthen species-preservation
efforts.

The Department of Conservation, housed at the CRC,
had 379 mammals and 405 birds in its collection in 1987.
Golden-lion tamarins, clouded leopards, Persian onagers,
Przewalski horses, Eld’s deer, and a Goeldi’s monkey
were among the rare mammals born in calendar year
1986. Hatchings included Guam rails, Bali mynahs, and
red-crowned cranes. The births are important gains in
efforts to prevent the extinction of several species.

For example, Guam rails, 9-inch-tall flightless birds,
have all but disappeared from their Pacific island home,
victims of a brown tree snake introduced to Guam in the
late t940s. The snake is believed to have wiped out three
of the five bird species endemic to Guam. To bolster
numbers of the remaining species—the rail and a king-
fisher—the CRC has devoted an entire wing of its small-
animal facility to the birds’ care and breeding. The effort,
directed by Dr. Scott Derrickson, NZP curator of birds,
is part of an international collaboration.

In 1987, the American Association of Zoological Parks

and Aquariums (AAZPA) named Dr. Derrickson stud-
book keeper for the Guam rail rescue project. In addi-
tion, Dr. Derrickson received the Whooping Crane
Conservation Association’s Honor Award for his research
on whooping cranes. Also in 1987, the AAZPA appointed
NZP mammalogist Larry Collins studbook keeper for
Matschie’s tree kangaroo.

Among the new conservation projects begun last year
was a cooperative program to develop techniques for
propagating Hawaii’s native forest birds. The U.S. Fish
and Wildlife Service and the Bronx and Philadelphia zoos
are the NZP’s partners in this project. In addition, Dr.
Christen Wemmer, who was appointed in August to the
AAZPA’s Wildlife Conservation Management Commit-
tee, and Dr. Rasanayagam Rudran began developing
a management training course for zoo personnel in
developing countries. The new course will be a natural
extension of the Department of Conservation’s other edu-
cational activities, which are drawing increasing numbers
of students from around the world. In 1987, Dr. Rudran’s
Wildlife Conservation Training Course, for example, at-
tracted twenty-four students from twelve countries. In
addition, Dr. Rudran conducted field courses in Vene-
zuela and Malaysia.

Animal Health and Pathology

Afflicted with a gastric ulcer, a male bongo calf housed
at Rock Creek required surgery. After the ulcer was re-
moved, the young African antelope was fed with a surgi-
cally implanted stomach tube. Seventy-five days after the
operation, the calf’s health was fully restored, and the
animal was returned to the collection.

This episode attests to the high-quality care provided
by NZP’s Department of Animal Health (DAH). Some-
times the department’s responsibilities require extensive
measures, as in the case of the bongo calf, but more often
they entail routine actions to safeguard the health of the
NZP’s inhabitants, at Rock Creek and Front Royal. The
Zoo’s health-care efforts are enhanced by a strong clinical
research program, which places major emphasis on re-
productive physiology. Moreover, the DAH trains veteri-
narians and veterinary students.

In 1987, the department created an Endocrine Research
Laboratory at the CRC, and the new research arm imme-
diately proved its value. Laboratory personnel developed
radioimmunoassays for monitoring metabolites in urine.
The results of preliminary studies indicate that the nonin-
vasive techniques can be used to determine ovulation,

69
pregnancy, and onset of labor. Building on continuing
NZP research, the laboratory intends to use similar tests
for monitoring stress levels in animals. At the same time,
other DAH teams are continuing studies on administering
antibiotics and anesthesia to a variety of exotic species.

The DAH also achieved a research first in 1987. An in-
vitro fertilization system developed by Zoo researchers
resulted in the birth of kittens from domestic cats that
had undergone embryo transfer. The kittens were the
first carnivores ever produced through in-vitro fertiliza-
tion. The accomplishment bodes well for efforts to re-
plenish decreasing zoo stocks of endangered species of
wild cats. The developers of the technique are already
studying how to extend the procedure to nondomestic
species of cats.

DAH researchers who are using the domestic ferret as
a model for the endangered black-footed ferret achieved a
similar milestone in 1987. Their technique for surgically
implanting sperm cells into the uteruses of female Euro-
pean ferrets resulted in the births of more than one hun-
dred kits. The successful effort established artificial
insemination as an option for breeding programs to re-
verse the decline of black-footed ferrets, estimated to
number eighteen.

Field studies also yield information that can improve
the care and breeding of animals in captivity, while lead-
ing to insights on how to improve the odds for the spe-
cies’ survival in the wild. Teams of DAH researchers,
including veterinarian Dr. R. Mitchell Bush, veterinarian
Dr. Lindsay Phillips, Jr., and reproductive physiologist
Dr. David E. Wildt, gathered medical and genetic data
on elephants and lions in Sri Lanka, lions in India, and
elephants and one-horned rhinoceroses in Nepal. The
payoffs from such efforts are exemplified by the results of
two major field studies completed by DAH researchers
and their collaborators in 1987. Both studies reported a
significant correlation between decreasing genetic diver-
sity among wild populations of large carnivores and in-
creasing reproductive defects, including high numbers of
abnormal sperm cells.

The NZP’s Department of Pathology is also concerned
with animal health, but from the perspective of diagnos-
ing diseases and devising measures to prevent infection.
Research and training programs complement its activi-
ties. Examples of the department’s research efforts during
the past year include a study by summer preceptor Chris-
tine Plowman that resulted in the description of a new
bacterial disease in iguanas and an investigation of med-
ullary amyloidosis in dorcas gazelles by Dr. Bruce Ride-
out, pathology resident. In a collaborative study with

7O

U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service’s Patuxent Wildlife Re-
search Center in Maryland, Dr. Richard Montali, head
of the Department of Pathology, aided in identifying the
cause of a disease outbreak in a flock of endangered
whooping cranes. Dr. Montali also identified a parasitic
encephalitis in a flock of macaws, completed a compara-
tive study of diseases in captive and wild waterfowl, and
participated in collaborative studies with researchers
from other NZP departments.

Continuing research projects also reported substantial
progress. Friends of the National Zoo (FONZ) research
associate Dr. Ed Ramsay, Dr. Montali, and colleagues
from the San Diego Zoo, Uniformed Services University
of Health Sciences, and Walter Reed Army Institute of
Research have succeeded in transmitting callitrichid hepa-
titis to laboratory primates. This essential step brings the
researchers closer to their goal of isolating and defining
the virus that causes a newly discovered disease in mar-
mosets and tamarins. Dr. Don Nichols, Smithsonian
postdoctoral fellow, cultured third-stage larvae of a
worm that attacks the membranes surrounding the brain
and spinal cord in exotic wild animals. Nichols grew the
larvae in snails and slugs, the meningeal worm’s interme-
diate hosts. Working at the Johns Hopkins University in
Baltimore, he isolated antigens from adult worms and
first- and third-stage larvae.

Research projects begun in 1987 included studies of a
newly described lungworm in meerkats and of chromo-
blastomycosis in ornate horned frogs by Erica Miller,
FONZ summer trainee; an investigation of mast-cell tu-
mors in exotic carnivores by summer preceptor Marcie
Engel; and a study of neurogenic pulmonary edema in
exotic ungulates by Julia Carter, Smithsonian summer
intern.

Nonmedical Research

More than seventy-five studies are under way in the De-
partment of Zoological Research (DZR), most carried
out in cooperation with other NZP departments or col-
laborators from other institutions. This broad research
effort directly supports the NZP’s overall aims of improv-
ing animal care, furthering conservation efforts, and fos-
tering better understanding of animal behavior and
biology. Benefits of DZR studies extend well beyond the
NZP, however. The research supports worldwide efforts
to preserve species diversity by providing the knowledge
needed to guide these efforts and by training students
who will carry them out in the future.
The rarely exhibited cuttlefish fascinates visitors to the new Invertebrate Exhibit at the National Zoo with its lightning-fast color
changes.

Several DZR members continued to contribute to the
Golden-Lion Tamarin Conservation Program in Brazil’s
Poco das Antas Reserve, where forty-six captive-bred ani-
mals (including twenty-two in September 1987) have been
released to replenish the rapidly declining native popula-
tion. Dr. Devra Kleiman, NZP’s assistant director for re-
search, chairs the International Golden-Lion Tamarin
Management Committee. Kleiman, who in 1987 received
the National Science Foundation’s Women in Science and
Engineering Award, studied the population dynamics of
wild tamarin populations. With NZP research associate
Dr. James Dietz, she monitored the status of the captive-
bred animals. Research associate Dr. Lisa Forman, work-
ing with Dr. Dietz and research zoologist Dr. Katherine
Ralls, began DNA-analysis studies to uncover informa-
tion about kinship patterns and genetic variability in the
wild and introduced tamarin populations.

Marine mammals were also studied in 1987. With asso-
ciates from the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service and the
University of Minnesota, Dr. Ralls maintained her watch
over endangered California sea otters. Using radiotele-
metric techniques, the team is tracking the locations of
otters along the California coast, yielding information
about the population dynamics and social behavior of the
animals. Dr. Olav Oftedal, NZP nutritionist, continued
his comparative studies of milk production and its chemi-
cal content in pinnipeds, which include walruses, seals,
and sea lions. Dr. Oftedal and Dr. Daryl Boness, who

also is participating in the pinniped study, began an in-
vestigation of lactation and postnatal growth of harbor
seals. Also in 1987, Dr. Boness, NZP research zoologist,
initiated a study of the behavior of endangered Hawatan
monk seals, while continuing his research on California
sea lions and on hooded and harp seals.

Among the new bird-related studies begun in 1987 was
an analysis of bird census data to uncover possible trends
related to deforestation in tropical areas. The study is a
collaborative project involving Smithsonian Research As-
sociate Dr. Russell Greenberg, Dr. James Lynch of the
Smithsonian Environmental Research Center, and a col-
league from the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service. In an-
other cooperative project, Dr. Greenberg, DZR staff
member Dr. Eugene Morton, and Dr. Kim Derrickson
began preparations for a study that will use tiny telemet-
ric devices to monitor the heart rates of birds. The aim of
the study is to correlate the birds’ physiological condi-
tions with their overt behavior. Dr. Morton and Dr.
Greenberg also continued their analysis of the feeding
and foraging behavior of migratory birds. In addition,
Dr. Morton collaborated with Dr. Derrickson in a study
of the relationship between the size of the song repertoire
of mockingbirds and the birds’ reproductive success.
With colleagues from the National Museum of Natural
History, Dr. Morton also conducted research on the be-
havior and ecology of birds in Panama.

The subjects of studies of terrestrial mammals ranged

Ff
from elephants in Sri Lanka to chipmunks at the NZP. In
addition to his teaching activities, Dr. Rudran advised Sri
Lankan officials on their nation’s wildlife research pro-
jects and assisted in developing a plan for elephant man-
agement and conservation. Also in Sri Lanka, research
associate Dr. Wolfgang Dittus continued, for the eight-
eenth year, his sociodemographic studies of the toque
macaque, and research associate Steve Thompson pro-
gressed in his fundamental study of the comparative ener-
getics of sugar gliders, porcupines, tree kangaroos, and
other marsupials and eutherian mammals. DZR popula-
tion manager Jonathan Ballou continued his studies of
the potential genetic perils of breeding programs and is
developing techniques for estimating minimum viable

population sizes for species in the wild and those in cap-
tivity. With members of the Department of Pathology,
Senior Smithsonian Postdoctoral Fellow Ted Grand be-
gan a comparative study of mammalian anatomy. Miles
Roberts, coordinator for the Red Panda Species Survival
Plan, completed a master plan for managing the popula-
tion of red pandas in North American zoos and initiated
a study of the behavioral ecology of the eastern chip-
munk at the NZP.

Exhibits at the Rock Creek facility have proven fertile
research sites. For example, Dr. Benjamin Beck, NZP’s
general curator, has used the zoo’s free-roaming family of
golden-lion tamarins, an exhibit he devised, to gain in-
sights into efforts to introduce captive-born animals in

National Zoo keeper Morna Holden feeds the young greater one-horned rhinos donated to the people of the United States by the
Prince of Nepal.

the wild. Dr. Edwin Gould, senior curator of mammals,
is studying the zoo’s collection of star-nosed moles to de-
termine whether the strange “noses” of the elusive ani-
mals detect electrical impulses that guide their hunting
efforts. The results of other ongoing studies are likely to
influence the design of animal exhibits. Dr. John Seiden-
sticker, associate curator of mammals, and Kathy Carl-
stead, a Smithsonian postdoctoral fellow, are evaluating
the stereotypic behavior of animals. Through sampling
techniques, they also are gauging the likelihood that visi-
tors will see active animals, depending on the season and
the time of day of their visits.

Dr. Dale Marcellini, newly appointed assistant to the
director for applied research into the exhibitry and hus-
bandry of zoo animals, used techniques for observing an-
imals to study the behavior of visitors. The innovative
approach may prove superior to questionnaires, the tradi-
tional but often disappointing tool for evaluating visitor
interests and satisfaction.

Education and Public Affairs

The Office of Education informs and educates the NZP’s
large, diverse audience through a variety of creative ma-
terials and projects. Only a year old, the office’s National
Zoo News is already an unqualified success, keeping
teachers in Washington, D.C., and surrounding areas
abreast of zoo programs. More than thirty-six hundred
grade school students have graduated from the office’s
seven-week course “Zoo Animals: A Closer Look,” which
celebrated its tenth anniversary in 1987.

Conservation themes have been incorporated into all of
the NZP’s public education programs and materials, and
new conservation programs are being developed for grade
school and junior high students. The innovative
“ZooArk,” a temporary exhibition on zoos and world-
wide conservation issues, captured visitor interest during
its one-year debut at the Zoo. The Smithsonian Institu-
tion Traveling Exhibition Service intends to circulate the
interactive exhibits to other zoos and to museums of nat-
ural history.

Complementary activities are carried out by the Office
of Public Affairs, the NZP’s direct contact with the public
and media. The office responds to questions, notifies the
public of NZP happenings, and provides informational
and organizational support for major events. During the
three days in June when much of the nation was tracking
the status of the newly born giant panda cubs, the public
affairs staff responded by organizing news conferences

and producing a series of fact sheets and news releases.
Along with its many other duties during the past year,
the staff coordinated activities related to the awarding of
NZP Silver Medals to Dr. E. O. Wilson and Sir David
Attenborough for their contributions to zoological sci-
ence and conservation.

The popularity of Sunset Serenades, the office’s four-
year-old summer concert series, continued to grow in
1987. More than six hundred people attended each of the
six concerts held on the Zoo grounds. The office also
organized the 1987 annual public symposium “Behind the
Scenes: Animal Studies at the Zoo,” which introduced the
public to the NZP’s research programs and achievements.

Construction and Support Services

The Office of Facilities Management (OFM) is the be-
hind-the-scenes unit that provides construction, police
and safety, and other services that support the full range
of NZP activities. Its craftspeople built the majority of
the new Invertebrate Exhibit, and they are engaged in a
variety of other construction and renovation projects.
Major construction projects in 1987 included completion
of the veterinary hospital at Front Royal. Projects begun
in 1987 included construction of the Rock Creek veteri-
nary hospital and the Gibbon Island Exhibit, renovation
of the Wetlands Exhibit, and initial designs for the Ama-
zonia Exhibit, reconstruction of the third section of the
Olmsted Walk, and renovation of the Rock Creek hospi-
tal/research building. In addition, the office is increasing
the number and quality of plantings on the Rock Creek
grounds, contributing to the Zoo’s transformation into a
biological park.

The Office of Facilities Management (OFM) grew with
the addition of the Exhibits Production Unit created from
the Office of Graphics and Exhibits, which was renamed
the Office of Design and Exhibit Planning. OFM pro-
vided major support to the new Invertebrate Exhibit,
constructing a majority of the exhibit. Enhancing the
Zoo’s BioPark theme, strong emphasis has been placed
on improving the quality and quantity of exhibit plant-
ings throughout the park.

Staff Changes and Appointments
Administrative changes enacted in 1987 will enhance the

NZP’s efforts to transform itself into a biological park.
George Calise was appointed associate director, and Elsa
Jablonski was named the NZP’s first director of develop-
ment. Dr. Edwin Gould was appointed assistant to the
director for biopark programs, and Dr. Dale Marcellini
was appointed assistant to the director for applied re-
search in the exhibitry and husbandry of zoo animals.

Friends of the National Zoo

A voluntary organization with more than fifty thousand
members, the Friends of the National Zoo (FONZ) con-
tributed in many ways to the NZP’s accomplishments in
1987. The organization responded to the opening of the

Invertebrate Exhibit, for example, by recruiting greatly

needed volunteers to lead tours, manage the information
desk, and assist keepers. These able volunteers were key
to the exhibit’s successful opening.

Fund-raising efforts in 1987 added to the organization’s
string of annual successes. Attendance at the members’
annual ZooNight was outstanding, and the fourth Na-
tional ZooFari resulted in a sizable contribution to the
Theodore H. Reed Animal Acquisition Fund. FONZ
grants to the NZP for wildlife research and other pro-
grams totaled more than $510,000 in 1987.

Visitor Services was expanded and enhanced. New
items were added to the menu and new food and gift
carts were introduced to improve service to the public.
Plans to quadruple the size of the Book Store Gallery
were begun in 1987.

Financial information for calendar year 1986 is given
below. A percentage of revenues from Zoo Services is
paid to the Smithsonian for the benefit of the National
Zoo and is reported as income by the Institution.

Friends of the National Zoo Financial Report for January 1-December 31, 1986

(thousands of dollars)

Net Net change in
revenue Expense fund balance
Fund balance, 1/1/86 $1,707°
Services
Membership $ 677 $ 595 82
Publications 157 -32
Education? 859 -751
Zoo Services‘ 5,856 4,8154 1,041
Total $6,766 $6,426 $340
Fund balance, 12/31/86 $2,047°

“Excludes $232,000 of deferred revenue—unrestricted for membership dues; this was an accounting change for the 1985 calendar year.
"Excludes services worth an estimated $501,814 contributed by FONZ vounteers.

‘Includes gift shops, parking services, and food services.

“Includes $459,712 paid to the Smithsonian Institution under contractual agreement.
‘Net worth, including fixed assets, to be used for the benefit of educational and scientific work at the National Zoological Park.

74
Office of American Studies

The Office of American Studies continued its program in
graduate education. This program, now in its twentieth
year, was designed to encourage research in the field of
material culture, utilizing the collections and personnel of
the Smithsonian’s many museums. An additional purpose
was to overcome the separation then existing between
university and museum scholars. Through formal courses
conducted at the Smithsonian, graduate students from co-
operating universities were encouraged to take advantage
of the opportunities offered by the national museums.
Courses have dealt with art, technology, and social, cul-
tural, and political history. The research interests of par-
ticipating students have ranged from art to anthropology.

The 1986 fall semester seminar in “Material Aspects of
American Civilization” again focused on topics related to
exploration and travel. The seminar was taught by Wil-
comb E. Washburn, director of the program, and Ber-
nard Mergen, of George Washington University. Nine
students participated—eight from George Washington
University and one from the University of Maryland.

Other seminars during the past year included “The
Decorative Arts in America,” taught by Barbara G.
Carson, of George Washington University, and “Art in
History,” taught by Ann Palumbo, also of George Wash-
ington University. Forty-five students participated in
these seminars.

Two graduate students are pursuing specialized re-
search under the supervision of the office’s director. Dr.
Washburn continued his work in early exploration and
discovery, museum history, and anthropology.

Office of Fellowships and
Grants

The Office of Fellowships and Grants (OFG) administers
and helps coordinate the numerous Smithsonian pro-
grams designed to assist scholars and students from the
United States and throughout the world in utilizing the
Institution’s unique resources. These programs support
participants’ research in art, history, and science, con-
ducted at Smithsonian facilities in conjunction with the
Institution’s professional staff. More than seven hundred
scholars and students received awards administered by
OFG in 1987.

The awards include long- and short-term residential
appointments for undergraduate, graduate, and postdoc-
toral students and for scholars in the humanities and sci-
ences. The Institution’s academic programs are an
important complement to those offered by universities.
The Smithsonian collections and the curators who study
them are unparalleled resources, unavailable anywhere
else and essential to many research pursuits. At the
Smithsonian, historical and anthropological objects, orig-
inal works of art, natural history specimens, living plants
and animals, entire ecosystems, and even the extraterres-
trial are available for study.

Programs for Visiting Students and Scholars

The office awarded seventy-nine predoctoral, postdoc-
toral, and senior postdoctoral Smithsonian Research Fel-
lowships in 1987, including seventeen to foreign students
from nine countries. Participants in the twenty-two-year-
old fellowship program conduct independent studies un-
der the guidance of staff. Research is carried out at one
of the Institution’s bureaus or field sites, usually over a
period of six months to a year. Study topics in 1987
spanned a diverse range of scholarly interests, from the
role of gift exchange in America to the archaeometallurgy
of ancient Anatolia. Other topics included the volcano as
image and symbol in nineteenth-century American art;
animal foraging, competition, and discounted future re-
wards; genetic and environmental correlates of polymor-
phism in marine cheilostome bryozoa; and predation,
mass extinction, and the fate of crinoids (a class of ma-
rine invertebrates) during the Mesozoic era.

Fifteen U.S. and four foreign graduate students in the
early stages of their research programs received ten-week
fellowships in 1987. The awards allowed the students to
explore areas that they are considering as the subjects of
their dissertation research. The 1987 fellows studied such
topics as the comparative morphology of the external
silk-spinning structure of spiders, Creek Indians and the
eighteenth-century deerskin trade, the San Francisco
school of abstract expressionism, and the role of the fed-
eral government in the development of the U.S. computer
industry.

Smithsonian Institution Regents Fellows in residence in
1987 included Stanford University’s Wanda Corn, whose
topic of study at the National Museum of American Art
was cultural nationalism in the art of post-World War I
America. At the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute,
Daniel Morse, University of California at Santa Barbara,
began a study of the molecular biology of invertebrate
larvae that inhabit coral reefs. At the National Zoologi-
cal Park, Regents Fellow Michael Soule examined the so-
cial and philosophical implications of conservation
biology and investigated new methods for studying mor-
phological and genetic variations in animal populations.

The Institution also awarded two two-year Webb Fel-
lowships, named in honor of Regent Emeritus James E.
Webb and designed to promote excellence in the manage-
ment of cultural and scientific nonprofit organizations.

Herbert M. Cole, University of California at Santa
Barbara, was the recipient of a fellowship in 1987 to
study archetypes in African art at the National Museum
of African Art. The fellowship is funded through a grant
from the Rockefeller Foundation Program in the Human-
ities to support postdoctoral fellowships at the National
Museum of African Art and the Freer and Sackler
galleries.

Through long- and short-term fellowships and through
other activities, the Smithsonian aims to cultivate greater
participation by minority scholars in the Institution’s pro-
grams. In 1987, a Faculty Fellowship was awarded to
Carolivia Herron, Harvard University, to examine ap-
proaches to the study of Afro-American visual art.

In addition to the Institution-wide programs funded
through OFG, the office administers fellowships and
other awards funded through Smithsonian bureaus. At
the National Air and Space Museum, 1987 awards in-
cluded appointments to the International Fellowship,
Martin Marietta Chair in Space History, and the Charles
A. Lindbergh Professorship in Aerospace History.

At the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, re-
search fellowships funded by the Jessie Noyes Foundation
were awarded to three predoctoral students, from Colom-
bia, Panama, and Costa Rica. The Smithsonian Astro-
physical Observatory awarded three postdoctoral and
five predoctoral fellowships in 1987.

In addition, OFG assisted in the awarding of two new
graduate fellowships in conservation science, the product
of a joint program between the Institution’s Conservation

76

Analytical Laboratory and the Department of Materials
Science and Engineering at the Johns Hopkins University.

During 1987, bureaus, in cooperation with OFG, con-
tinued to offer short-term support for visiting scientists
and scholars. This aid enabled forty-four researchers to
visit Smithsonian facilities and confer with staff members.
These programs are supplemented by OFG’s growing
Short Term Visitor Program, which is attracting an in-
creasing number of scholars from developing countries.
The program assisted 172 scholars—including 73 interna-
tional visitors representing 31 nations—who came to the
Institution to conduct research, examine collections, or
meet with professional staff members.

OFG?’s three-year-old workshop program again was
successful in supporting gatherings of scholars and ex-
perts to discuss issues of mutual or complementary inter-
est. Last year, the program supported sixteen workshops
organized by Smithsonian research and museum staff
members. Lasting from one to several days, the work-
shops focused on such topics as psychoanalysis and soci-
ety in Africa, blue crab ecology, the evolution of
terrestrial ecosystems, and inversion techniques in
helioseismology.

Internships and Other Programs

The number of internships offered by the Smithsonian
continues to grow, reflecting both the popularity and the
effectiveness of these programs. Through OFG, the Na-
tional Air and Space Museum supported ten undergradu-
ate interns in 1987. The Cooper-Hewitt Museum
supported six students, and twelve students participated
in the Smithsonian Environmental Research Center’s
work-and-learn program in environmental studies. The
Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden and the Na-
tional Museum of American Art each supported four stu-
dent interns. In addition, twelve students participated in
the Smith College-Smithsonian Program in American
Studies. The eight-year-old program features a seminar
course and research projects conducted under the direc-
tion of staff members.

High school students also took advantage of the Insti-
tution’s internship opportunities. In 1987, forty-three
were supported through the Office of Elementary and
Secondary Education. During five-week sessions, the in-
terns participated in programs designed to broaden an
existing academic interest or vocational skill. For the Of-
fice of Elementary and Secondary Education, OFG ad-
ministered the five appointments to the Teacher Intern
Program. This program gives high school teachers the
opportunity to delve into their academic interests, and it
addresses ways in which the participants can assist local
museums in developing programs for adolescents.

The office supplemented these programs with efforts
aimed at increasing the participation of minority students
in Smithsonian research activities and other programs.
Thirty-one undergraduate and graduate minority students
were awarded internships in a variety of bureaus and of-
fices on the Mall, the Smithsonian Environmental Re-
search Center, and the National Zoological Park.

In 1987, the office, in collaboration with the bureaus,
created a special program for Native American students
and community scholars. Under the new program, seven
short-term appointments were made. Topics studied by
the Native American scholars while at the Smithsonian
included the breakup of the Great Sioux Nation and the
role of women in contemporary trends in American
Indian art.

With the support of a grant from the Educational Out-
reach Program, OFG and Howard University developed a
study program to promote minority interest in natural
history. Two faculty members from the university’s De-
partment of Zoology and Botany designed a ten-day field
course for eight undergraduates. The course was held at
the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute and included
talks by members of the institute staff.

The office continued to administer cooperative educa-
tion appointments aimed at minority graduate students
whose research interests coincide with those of the Insti-
tution. In 1987, two appointments were made. The
students will work in professional positions at the Smith-
sonian while continuing their university education. The
appointments hold the potential for permanent employ-
ment at the Smithsonian.

The Education Fellowship Program, which offers sup-
port for graduate study and research training, also con-
tinued to encourage the participation of minorities in
the Institution’s fields of interest. In 1987, a fellowship
recipient at Harvard University received his doctorate in
astrophysics and was appointed to a position at the
Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory. Another recipi-
ent completed his first year of graduate study in the
Department of Anthropology at the University of Massa-
chusetts and spent part of the summer working at the
National Museum of Natural History.

In 1987, twelve persons were selected to participate in
two sessions of the Visiting Associates Program. Partici-
pants in the two-year-old program were university and
college faculty members and administrators committed to

expanding minority participation in higher education.
The week-long sessions were designed to acquaint the
visiting associates with Smithsonian research programs
and opportunities for independent and collaborative stud-
ies. The associates were asked to serve as contacts and to
disseminate this information among their respective aca-
demic communities.

Also during the past year, OFG assumed administra-
tion of the Scholarly Studies Program. This competitive
grant program provides funding for Smithsonian staff
and their collaborators to conduct research that falls out-
side the purview of traditional sources of support. As a
result of two meetings of a review committee composed
of scholars from the Smithsonian and elsewhere, twenty-
nine grants were awarded in 1987.

dar A
Smithsonian Astrophysical
Observatory

On February 24, 1987, a Canadian astronomer working
at the Las Campanas Observatory in Chile discovered a
supernova in the Large Magellanic Cloud, a companion
galaxy to the Milky Way visible from the Southern Hemi-
sphere. The exploding star was the brightest seen in more
than four hundred years and the first discovered early
enough after its explosion to allow detailed studies with
the full range of modern astronomical instruments.

Supernova 1987A (SN 1987A), as the object is officially
known, dominated astronomical research throughout the
remaining months of 1987, as astronomers sought new
clues to stellar evolution. Scientists from the Harvard—
Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics (CfA) were at the
forefront of this research.

For example, one night after the exploding star was
discovered, a CfA X-ray specialist working at the Cerro
Tololo InterAmerican Observatory, also in Chile, pro-
duced optical photos of the supernova that were
distributed worldwide. Similarly, the first official an-
nouncement of the discovery was issued by the Interna-
tional Astronomical Union’s (IAU’s) Central Bureau for
Astronomical Telegrams, headquartered at CfA. A tor-
rent of information, based on subsequent studies and ob-
servations, flowed from the bureau, with some 30 IAU
Circulars issued during the first twenty days after the dis-
covery and a record-breaking 190 over the course of the
year.

The initial announcement was greeted with an intense
wave of research activity. Within hours, a CfA astrono-
mer used the International Ultraviolet Explorer to investi-
gate the supernova, pinning down, among other things,
the original identity of the spectacular object. Comparing
ultraviolet spectral data from the satellite with preexplo-
sion astrometric measurements of candidate stars, he and
a colleague determined that SN 1987A’s progenitor was
Sanduleak -69 202, a blue supergiant star.

Almost simultaneously with this study, the CfA initi-
ated and coordinated an international experiment using
very long baseline interferometry (VLBI) to probe the su-
pernova’s radiosphere. Observations suggested that, five
days after the explosion, the supernova’s radio shell was
larger than its visible disk, with a diameter at least twelve
thousand times that of the Sun.

The most exciting—and most surprising—result was
the discovery of an enigmatic and inexplicably bright ob-
ject close to SN 1987A. A CfA research team found the
“companion” through optical speckle interferometry ob-
servations, made in late April with the 4-meter telescope
at Cerro Tololo. (The electronic camera used to make
these observations is a new astronomical-imaging instru-

78

ment. By means of rapid multiple exposures, the camera
compensates for blurring motions in the Earth’s atmo-
sphere.) The apparent brightness of the object (only three
magnitudes fainter than the supernova) and its apparent
closeness to the supernova (separated, perhaps, by as lit-
tle as seventeen light-days) suggested that the companion
was linked to the stellar explosion. Because the object
was not seen before the supernova, it must have been at
least one hundred times fainter—if, indeed, it even ex-
isted before the explosion! Months after the observation,
the origin and nature of the object continued to evade
explanation.

The interdisciplinary approach to studying Supernova
1987A underscores the multifaceted program of the CfA
and its ability to respond quickly to major research op-
portunities. Formed in 1973 to coordinate the related in-
terests of the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory and
the Harvard College Observatory under a single director,
the CfA studies the basic physical processes that deter-
mine the nature and evolution of the universe. These in-
vestigations, touching on almost all major topics in
modern astronomy, are organized by divisions. Some
highlights of research in each of these divisions during the
past year follow.

Atomic and Molecular Physics

To interpret observations of astronomical objects, it is
necessary to understand how atoms and molecules inter-
act with each other and with light. The division’s labora-
tory and theoretical studies seek to explain these
interactions.

CfA scientists are measuring, for example, the ways in
which sunlight can break apart oxygen molecules in the
Earth’s atmosphere. This year, they made the first theo-
retical calculations of the rate of atomic oxygen produc-
tion from oxygen molecules that break apart almost
immediately after absorbing an electron. This is a key
process in the ozone chemistry of the stratosphere, the
protective layer that filters out the Sun’s harmful ultravio-

Supernova 1987A (arrow) in the Large Magellanic Cloud was

photographed at the Cerro Tololo InterAmerican Observatory

in Chile by Wendy Roberts of the Harvard-Smithsonian Center
for Astrophysics on February 25, 1987, one night after its dis-

covery. (NOAO photograph)
let rays. In addition, knowledge of the process contrib-
utes to understanding the “greenhouse effect” now
thought to be warming the Earth.

Astronomers in the division are also studying the distri-
bution of interstellar carbon monoxide to map the distri-
bution of molecules in giant clouds in the Milky Way.
Interpreting these maps, however, requires knowledge of
how starlight breaks down carbon monoxide molecules.
Thus, CfA scientists devised a mathematical model to
identify potential mechanisms involved in this poorly un-
derstood process. They have compared their calculations
with corresponding measurements made in collaboration
with researchers from the Japanese National Laboratory,
using radiation from that facility’s “photon factory.”

High-Energy Astrophysics

Research in high-energy astrophysics is concerned with
some of the most energetic objects and processes in na-
ture—specifically, the mechanisms that generate X-ray
radiation from cosmic objects. Because X-rays are ab-
sorbed by the Earth’s atmosphere, observations in this
field are made from balloons, rockets, and satellites. Di-
vision scientists and engineers are currently analyzing
X-ray data from past spaceflights, and they are designing
and developing new instrumentation for future missions.

The extremely violent events taking place in the cores
of galaxies and in quasars intrigue and puzzle scientists.
Although these latter objects radiate immense amounts of
energy across the entire spectrum, from low-energy radio
waves to the extremely high-energy X-rays and gamma
rays, their behavior can change over periods as short as a
few days. CfA scientists have been piecing together a pic-
ture of the way emissions vary in time and energy. Pre-
liminary results suggest that one process may generate
infrared and X-ray emissions, while another, involving a
disklike structure of material spiraling inward toward a
central black hole, may be responsible for the optical,
ultraviolet, and lowest-energy X-ray radiation.

The X-ray satellite Einstein, created largely through
the efforts of CfA scientists and engineers, produced a
priceless archive of observations of ro percent of the sky
Using the Einstein Data Bank, CfA scientists and more
than 130 visiting researchers have been able to catalogue
X-ray sources and make maps of the distribution of cos-
mic X-rays. These tools will guide future systematic
X-ray studies of stars, galaxies, clusters of galaxies,
and quasars.

80

Optical and Infrared Astronomy

CfA research in optical and infrared astronomy concen-
trates on the large-scale structure of the universe and on
the formation and evolution of stars and galaxies. In sup-
port of this research, the center operates the Fred Law-
rence Whipple Observatory on Mount Hopkins in
Arizona. The observatory contains the Multiple Mirror
Telescope (MMT), operated jointly with the University
of Arizona. It also houses two smaller telescopes, which
are used for large-scale surveys and to supplement MMT-
based research, and a light collector measuring ro meters
in diameter. Used for ground-based searches for high-
energy gamma rays from celestial sources, this collector is
the most sensitive instrument of its type in the world.

In one long-term program, CfA scientists are creating a
three-dimensional map of the distribution of more than
ten thousand galaxies within about three hundred million
light-years of our own Milky Way. The survey’s first
“slice of the universe” indicated that the galaxies are dis-
tributed on the surfaces of enormous bubblelike voids,
some more than one hundred million light-years in diam-
eter. Three such slices, including more than twenty-five
hundred galaxies, are now complete. The new data con-
firm the early evidence of the bubblelike distribution of
galaxies on very large scales, posing a serious challenge
to traditional models of the evolution of the universe.

A CfA scientist was on the international team that dis-
covered what may be the first true “binary quasar sys-
tem.” The two quasars, located twelve billion light-years
from Earth in the direction of the constellation Crater,
were first identified in optical observations made at the
European Southern Observatory in La Silla, Chile. Spec-
tral data gathered with the MMT confirmed that the two
objects were located at approximately the same distance
from the Earth; and radio observations made with the
Very Large Array in New Mexico established the binary
nature of the quasars, ruling out the effect of a gravita-
tional lens. The proximity of the objects suggests that
they may be interacting, either in orbit about each other
or in near collision.

The MMT is also being used to survey potentially as
many as one thousand non-radio-emitting quasars,
known as QSOs. The effort is an ambitious attempt to
establish statistical standards of distribution and lumi-
nosity. Candidates for MMT observation and spectral
analysis are selected from photographic plates by an au-
tomated measuring device at Cambridge University. Al-
ready, the survey has discovered some 250 new QSOs.
Planetary Sciences

The planetary sciences division concentrates on the plan-
ets, satellites, and small bodies of the Solar System, as
well as on the processes that created them billions of
years ago.

CfA scientists continue to examine information ob-
tained during Voyager spacecraft encounters with the
outer planets. Much of last year’s effort was devoted to
examining and interpreting data describing the satellites
of Jupiter. Mapping of the geological formations on Gan-
ymede was completed, and analysis of images of Europa
suggested that material from that satellite’s interior may
be venting through its ice-covered surface. In a related
ground-based effort, observations of the eclipses and oc-
cultations of Jupiter’s bright satellites were used to study
the dissipation of energy in the interior of the planet.

Major concerns of the division’s theorists include the
evolution of the early solar nebula—the stuff from which
planets were made—and the high-energy events and pro-
cesses responsible for certain properties of meteorites and
planets. An example of work in this area is a study that
could resolve a long-standing mystery of the Solar Sys-
tem—the origin of the Moon. Two CfA scientists pre-
sented a convincing argument that the Moon was created
by a collision between Earth and another body perhaps
1.2 times the mass of Mars.

Although the Apollo missions ended more than a dec-
ade ago, the lunar rocks collected during these missions
continue to reveal their secrets. Laboratory studies of
samples from the Apollo 15 mission found a previously
unrecognized variety of igneous rock in the lunar high-
lands. This discovery provides new information about the
way the lunar surface separated into layers of differing
chemical composition.

Where and how comets form are persisting questions.
The comets that periodically approach the Sun are be-
lieved to come from a halo around the Solar System, far
beyond the orbit of Pluto. Computations by a CfA scien-
tist suggest that as many as two-thirds of these comets
may have formed in a shell-like region centered about the
Sun, but extending from one thousand to ten thousand
times the Earth’s distance from the Sun.

Radio and Geoastronomy

Research in radio astronomy contributes to greater un-
derstanding of the universe and of Earth itself. Some CfA

scientists are studying the structure, evolution, sources of
energy, and ultimate fate of astronomical objects that
emit radio waves throughout the universe. Other CfA
scientists use the radio astronomy technique of very long
baseline interferometry to measure the drifting of conti-
nents and to probe the Earth’s interior structure. Still
other scientists in this division are developing atomic
clocks, testing the theory of general relativity, designing
and building advanced optical interferometers, and de-
signing space tethers to probe the outer reaches of the
Earth’s atmosphere.

One group is attempting to measure the size of the
Milky Way and the distance to nearby galaxies. They
have mapped with extraordinary precision the relative
motions of water-vapor masers (amplified emissions of
microwaves) around a newly formed massive star. From
this information, they determined the distance that sepa-
rates us from the center of the Milky Way, thus improv-
ing the accuracy of previous measurements of this
distance. CfA scientists also made the first epoch mea-
surements of the motions of two maser complexes in the
neighboring galaxy M33. Data gathered over the next
several years should allow the first-ever measurement of
this galaxy’s rotation.

In 1987, division scientists and engineers also com-
pleted the installation of a two-element, 20-meter-base-
line optical interferometer at the Mount Wilson
Observatory. In initial tests, the “Mark II,” which was
built in collaboration with other institutions, successfully
measured the positions of five stars, tracking these stars
over wide angles as the Earth rotated. Interferometry, a
common observing technique in radio astronomy, is be-
ing used increasingly in optical astronomy. This proto-
type instrument shows great promise as a tool for the
precise measurement of stellar positions.

Solar and Stellar Physics

In addition to seizing the research opportunities presented
by Supernova 1987A, scientists in this division made sig-
nificant progress in studies of physical processes operat-
ing in the Sun and other stars. A major emphasis was the
study of the behavior of hot gas under varied condi-
tions—in extended stellar atmospheres, in the interstellar
medium, and in material ejected from young stars and
supernovae.

Continuing observations of a young variable star by
two CfA scientists provide evidence that material from a

81
surrounding disk is falling onto the star’s surface. The
cause of the process is unknown, but the observations
indicate that the star is growing as a result of mass trans-
fer. Observations of similiar stars will be needed to deter-
mine whether disk systems, the precursors of planets, are
common to all young stars.

Periodic variations—probably pulsations—were found
in the bright red supergiant star Betelgeuse in Orion by a
team of division scientists. Although variations in this
star’s brightness have long been suspected, it took a dedi-
cated monitoring program, using both satellite and
ground-based instruments, to pin down the 420-day cycle
of changes in luminosity. This feature may hold the key
to understanding how Betelgeuse’s great extended atmo-
sphere—some three thousand times that of the Sun—was
created.

Measurements of brightness variations in stars sus-
pected of having “spotted surfaces” were made with pho-
toelectric telescopes operated by a private group at the
Whipple Observatory. These completely automated in-
struments made long-term measurements that comple-
mented data obtained by CfA researchers at the Mount
Wilson Observatory.

Theoretical Astrophysics

CfA theorists seek to explain the underlying principles
and processes that govern the behavior of the universe.
They derive their insights from analyses of experimental
data and mathematical models.

Last year, studies carried out in the division addressed
a wide range of topics, from interpretations of the first
observation of neutrinos from the collapse of a supernova
core, to the evolution of localized “inflationary universes”
that, from the outside, might appear to be black holes.
Research also addressed “cosmic strings,” the hypothe-
sized artifacts of the very early universe. A CfA scientist
and colleague from another institution developed a model
to explain how these strings, if they exist, might serve as
sources of the enormous amounts of energy generated in
quasars. Another CfA scientist analyzed processes that
might limit the size of the massive black hole hypothe-
sized to lie at the center of the Milky Way.

Other work included studies of gas flow into black
holes, the interiors of neutron stars, the properties of
atoms and molecules in interstellar space, the formation
of spiral structure in galaxies, and the formation of
planets in the early Solar System.

82

Science Education

In addition to advances in astrophysics research, the CfA
also made progress in Project STAR (Science Teaching
through Astronomical Roots). Sponsored by the National
Science Foundation, this program is designed to improve
the teaching of secondary school science through the use
of examples from astronomy and supporting materials.
Eighteen high school science teachers from around the
country attended the second Summer Workshop for Edu-
cators, held in Cambridge. During the two-week pro-
gram, the teachers participated in seminars, discussions,
and laboratory exercises that drew upon CfA resources
and the expertise of its staff.

Results of a survey mailed to some six thousand ran-
domly selected science teachers revealed that at least ro
percent would teach an astronomy course in their high
schools if suitable materials were available. This interest
suggests a demand for the type of texts, activities, and
teacher training programs now being developed in Project
STAR.

Smithsonian Environmental
Research Center

Studies at the Smithsonian Environmental Research Cen-
ter (SERC), located in Edgewater, Maryland, help un-
ravel the complex web of factors that influence the health
of the environment. Occupying 2,600 acres bordering the
Rhode River, a tributary of the Chesapeake Bay, the cen-
ter carries out long-term interdisciplinary studies, in the
field and in the laboratory.

The center complements its research activities through
educational programs for students—from undergraduates
to postdoctoral fellows—and for the public. Teacher- and
docent-led tours acquaint the public with the center’s
mission and facilities. Hiking along the two-mile Discoy-
ery Trail or participating in center-organized canoe out-
ings on the tidal river introduce visitors to the wonders
and vulnerabilities of the coastal environment.

Through seminars, a regular SERC activity, center re-
searchers and their counterparts from universities and
governmental laboratories keep each other abreast of
work and issues in areas of mutual interest. In addition,
the center organized and hosted in 1987 a scientific work-
shop on the biology of portunid (swimming) crabs.

The sampling of 1987 research activities described be-
low illustrates how SERC studies contribute to a better
understanding of complex environmental phenomena and
problems. Research is conducted by staff scientists, who
represent a diverse array of disciplines, and by visiting
scientists and students.

Impact of Acid Deposition

The impact of acid precipitation on coastal-plain hard-
wood forests has been a matter of concern in recent
years, although few studies have addressed the issue. To
help fill gaps in understanding, SERC researchers con-
structed a detailed “acid budget” for a mature forest
adjacent to the Chesapeake Bay. A type of scientific ac-
counting system, the budget tracked acid inputs and the
amount of acid flowing from the drainage basin into the
Bay over a four-year period.

The acid levels of precipitation and stream water were
strongly correlated, and the average annual pH of both
declined significantly between 1975 and 1984. (The acro-
nym for potential of hydrogen, pH is a measure of acid-
ity, with a pH of 1 being most acidic, a pH of 7 neutral,
and pH of 14 most alkaline.) Precipitation was primarily
a dilute solution of sulfuric and nitric acids, with small
amounts of ammonium, chloride, and metallic cations
(positively charged metal ions). Stream water, in con-

trast, was largely a solution of metallic sulfates and chlo-
rides. The differences in acid composition reflect how soil
and vegetation process rainwater and snow melt. Nearly
all of the ammonium, hydronium, and nitrate ions were
intercepted and retained by the forest, but a substantial
portion of the sulfates were not. Moreover, precipitation
leached aluminum and other metallic cations from water-
shed vegetation and soil.

The watershed ecosystem neutralized 98 percent of the
acid inputs. Yet, the remaining 2 percent were sufficient
to acidify waters draining into watershed streams. Nitric
acid in the precipitation did not affect stream chemistry
because of the nearly complete retention of nitrates
within the ecosystem; nor did acids from natural sources,
such as from the dissociation of carbonic and other or-
ganic acids. Sulfuric acid was the pollutant primarily re-
sponsible for cation leaching and stream acidification.
The loss of metallic cations other than calcium did not
seem to threaten forest vegetation because of the soil’s
high content of metals and replenishment from weather-
ing. Calcium, however, is present in the soil only in trace
amounts. Assuming no replenishment of the element,
continuation of current leaching rates would deplete cal-
cium levels in the soil by more than a third in seventy
years.

Small, primary streams in the watershed underwent the
greatest surges in acidity, falling to a pH level as low as
3.2. Moreover, concentrations of aluminum, dissolved
from minerals in clay soils, were high. Larger streams
were observed to have surges in acidity with pH minima
below 5.

Surges in acidity occurred during accelerated ground-
water percolation following storms and did not coincide
with surface runoff or snow melt. One reason why
groundwater is more acidic is that plants exchange their
hydronium ions for the soil’s alkaline cations. During a
storm, hydronium ions in the precipitation displace some
of the alkaline cations that had been translocated to the
plant canopy, while hydronium ions that had accumu-
lated in the soil percolate through the soil and into local
streams. As a result, surface runoff is enriched in alkaline
cations and groundwater is enriched in hydronium ions.

Acidity levels of drainage in the forested portion of the
watershed were most closely tied to the pH of precipita-
tion. On average, forest drainage was the most acidic,
the highest in aluminum content, and the lowest in cal-
cium content. Surges in acidity, however, were most se-
vere in pastureland drainage, followed by cropland
drainage. The study results indicate that land manage-
Dr. Bert Drake, plant physiologist at the Smithsonian Environmental Research Center, adjusts controls of an open-top marsh
chamber in which carbon dioxide gas concentrations have been doubled to allow measurement of direct and indirect environmental
effects.

ment strongly influences the acidity of water draining ag-
ricultural areas.

Bioassays suggest that aquatic wildlife species vary in
their vulnerability to levels of acidity recorded in the
study. The results of the assays, conducted at the center,
indicate negligible toxicity to tree frogs (Hyla crucifer) at
a pH level of 5. The same level of acidity caused signifi-
cant toxicity to yellow perch (Perca flavescens) and had
drastic effects on striped bass (Morone saxatilis).

Bird/ Habitat Relationships

Center researchers measured abundances of nesting birds
over four breeding seasons in a successional series of hab-
itats, from recently abandoned pasture to mature hard-

wood forest. Species such as yellow-breasted chat and

84

white-eyed vireo, as determined from mist-net capture
rates, were most abundant. These species congregated in
early successional habitats. Overall, the number of birds
in a specific habitat increased from abandoned pasture to
mature forest. Species diversity, however, was greatest in
the intermediate-aged forest. Areas of high capture rates
for particular species did not correspond with the loca-
tions of singing males of those species. This finding sug-
gests that habitat suitable for singing perches may differ
substantially from the habitat used for feeding and other
activities.

Ant Abundance and Diversity

On the forest floor reside teeming populations of ants,
important links in the terrestrial food web. A center
study of ant populations in the litter and soil of a mature
forest in the Rhode River watershed counted twenty-two
species, although ten accounted for more than 95 percent
of the individuals collected. The density of ants per unit
of surface area in the top ro centimeters of soil was more
than three times greater than in the overlying litter. Sea-
sonal differences in ant abundance and community com-
position were significantly correlated with surface
temperature and largely independent of soil moisture con-
tent and of the amount and type of overlying leaf litter.
Ant density and biomass were high, rivaling values previ-
ously reported for tropical forests.

Riparian Forests

Streamside, or riparian, forests are natural buffers, filter-
ing out pollutants in runoff from developed and agricul-
tural uplands. SERC scientists developed detailed
hydrologic budgets for forests lining streams that drain
into the Chesapeake Bay. Over the two-year study pe-
riod, 62 percent of the rain or agricultural runoff entering
the forests did not reach watershed streams. This water
either evaporated or was transpired by forest vegetation.
In fact, the amount of water returned to the atmosphere
by transpiring plants exceeded total precipitation by
about 8 centimeters per year. The study also found that
riparian forests neutralized more than go percent of the
acidity in cropland runoff.

Effects of Increased Carbon Dioxide

Concentrations of carbon dioxide in the Earth’s atmos-
phere have been increasing about half a percent per year
and are expected to double over current levels during the
next century. The effects of the expected buildup are
likely to be fickle, affecting, for example, some plant spe-
cies more than others. In the Chesapeake Bay tidal
marshes, such selective effects could dramatically alter
the character of plant communities in unanticipated
ways. Field studies by SERC researchers indicate that
changes may already be under way. Increasing levels of
carbon dioxide were found to reduce the water require-
ments of plants and, therefore, decrease their level of salt
stress. In the longer term, plant species that are better
equipped to assimilate and process increasing concentra-
tions of carbon dioxide are likely to flourish at the ex-
pense of other species. As a result, sedges, for example,
may displace marsh grasses.

Using open-top chambers that are continuously en-
riched with carbon dioxide during the growing season,
SERC scientists are conducting carefully controlled stud-
ies of the direct and indirect effects of the gas buildup on
Chesapeake Bay plant communities. The researchers are
monitoring rates of photosynthesis and respiration, water
balance, and nutrient dynamics in experimental plants,
which during the day are exposed to twice the current
ambient levels of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere.
These measurements are compared with those for con-
trols. Results of the study will provide a baseline for
gauging carbon dioxide—induced changes in Bay plant
communities. They also will allow inferences to be made
about the effects of the gas buildup on more complex
ecosystems.

Blue Crab Ecology

The behavior and population dynamics of the blue crab,
perhaps the most celebrated inhabitant of the Chesapeake
Bay, have been the subject of intense study at the center.
Working in the Rhode River, researchers documented a
remarkable degree of habitat partitioning among crabs,
segregating themselves according to size, sex, and molt
stage.

New, young crabs that entered the river, or subestu-
ary, in late fall and spring grew rapidly to more than roo
millimeters by the end of their first summer. By the end
of their second year, the crabs matured, growing to 120-
170 millimeters. Sixty percent of the crabs in the river
basin were males. The sex imbalance in the population
resulted from the late summer and early fall migration of
females from the river, following maturation and copula-
tion. Ninety percent of the medium-sized males molted
while in the tidal river. Most crabs moving upstream
were in the premolt stage, while those moving down-
stream tended to be larger and in postmolt.

SERC scientists also investigated how bottom-dwelling
soft-shelled clams have been able to persist in low popu-
lation densities, despite intense predation by blue crabs.
With aquariums set up to mimic conditions in the Bay,
the researchers evaluated whether crab foraging was in-
fluenced by the population density of the clams and by
the composition of the sediment in the clams’ habitat.
They found that predation rates were significantly higher
in muddy bottoms, resulting in marked up and down
swings in clam population density. In sandy environ-
ments, however, predation rates increased up to a limit
and then remained at that level. As a result, clam popula-

85
tions in sandy sediments persisted at low densities, re-
flecting actual conditions in the Chesapeake Bay. The
results suggest that the foraging behavior of blue crabs
and, consequently, mortality rates among the crusta-
ceans’ bottom-dwelling prey are strongly influenced by
differences in microhabitat.

Sunlight Penetration

As it is in terrestrial ecosystems and in other aquatic envi-
ronments, the availability of sunlight is a key determinant
of productivity in the Chesapeake Bay. High concentra-
tions of suspended soil particles and phytoplankton in the
Bay act as barriers, attenuating incoming sunlight and
confining it to shallow levels.

A SERC study of incident light and the depth of its
penetration showed that, during times of clear water in
the Rhode River, transmittance of light was similar to
that previously reported for open ocean waters. High
concentrations of suspended and dissolved materials,
however, greatly attenuated incident sunlight and acted
as a selective filter. Depending on the materials present in
the water, some wavelengths of light essentially were
blocked, whereas others were allowed to penetrate deeper
into the water column. Attenuation in the upper part of
the water column was higher under clear, sunny skies
than under overcast conditions. Apparently, high concen-
trations of pigments and suspended particles on sunny
days—due to the windier conditions on these days—in-
crease light absorption and scattering. In addition, the
diffuse light characteristic of cloudy days strikes at a less
oblique angle than does direct sunlight over the course of
a day. As result, diffuse light travels a shorter distance to
reach a given water depth. Center researchers identified
eight water quality parameters that account for 93 per-
cent of sunlight attenuation under various sky conditions.
The results will benefit efforts to model sunlight attenua-
tion in turbid estuarine waters.

Nutrients in the Chesapeake Bay

The dynamics of how nutrients are introduced, proc-
essed, and recycled in the Chesapeake Bay are a long-
standing and continuing interest of the center. In 1987,
the center synthesized the results of studies it conducted
over the last fifteen years, incorporating pertinent find-
ings from other laboratories. This comprehensive body of

86

research can help guide efforts to improve the health of
the nation’s largest estuary.

For phytoplankton, which sit at the bottom of the
Chesapeake Bay food chain, phosphorus, nitrogen, and
silicon are the key nutrient elements. Algae, diatoms, and
all other phytoplankton assimilate phosphorus only as
dissolved orthophosphate, and silicon only as orthosili-
cate. They can assimilate nitrogen, however, as nitrate
and several other forms. Thus, phytoplankton rely on
other natural communities to break down more complex
nutrient fractions into the simpler forms they require.
During periods of rapid growth, when ample supplies of
light and nutrients are available, algae contain fifteen to
sixteen times more nitrogen than phosphorus. For dia-
toms, whose cell walls are made of silicon, the ratio of
silicon to nitrogen is about 1 to 1.3. These so-called Red-
field ratios may vary by a factor of up to 100 if light
intensity or one or more nutrients are limiting.

Center studies also have documented considerable sea-
sonal fluctuations in concentrations of nitrogen and phos-
phorus. During winter and spring, high ratios of nitrogen
to phosphorus characterize the Bay’s headwaters and
those of its tributaries. As these waters move through the
Bay to the Atlantic Ocean, their nitrogen content de-
creases more rapidly than their phosphorus content. Dur-
ing summer and fall, when riverine inputs are low,
recycling of these nutrients by bottom-dwelling plants
and animals helps replenish supplies of nitrogen and
phosphorus. Concentrations of orthosilicate are usually
high throughout the year, except in parts of the estuary
that undergo diatom blooms in spring.

During an average year, land discharges account for 65
percent of the Bay’s nitrogen inputs, 22 percent of its
phosphorus inputs, and all of its inputs of biologically
available silicon. Point sources, such as sewage pipes, ac-
count for 25 percent of total inputs of nitrogen and 73
percent of the phosphorus. Atmospheric deposition ac-
counts for the remainder.

Recycling of nutrients within the water column and be-
tween the water column and bottom sediments and fring-
ing marshes is a very dynamic process. The average
nitrogen nutrient molecule, for example, is reused more
than one hundred times during the course of a year.
Much of the nitrogen and phosphorus recycling occurs
within the plankton community in the water column, but
silicon recycling occurs primarily in the bottom
sediments.
Smithsonian Institution
Archives

The Smithsonian Institution Archives (SIA) cares for the
Institution’s official records and for the papers of its cura-
tors and other staff members, as well as for the historical
documents of various professional societies. Because the
Smithsonian functioned as a central scientific agency in
the United States until World War I, the SIA is a valuable
primary source for the study of the history of science,
particularly nineteenth-century American science. Other
holdings document American art and social history. In
addition to its stewardship of this vast collection of his-
torical information, the SIA engages in research, trains
archives managers, and regularly conducts surveys of re-
cords still held by the Smithsonian’s bureaus and offices.

General Archival Program

A major records survey was completed this year in the
Washington, D.C., office of the Archives of American
Art (AAA). Representatives of both archives discussed
transfers of records to the SIA and drafted an extensive
records-disposition manual for the AAA. Another large
survey was nearly completed in the offices of the U.S.
Geological Survey (USGS) based in the National Museum
of Natural History. SIA staff attended to details left over
from last year’s survey of the Freer Gallery of Art, and
they met with representatives of the Freer and Sackler
Galleries to discuss plans for an archival program. The
SIA also completed a survey of records in the Office of
Exhibits Central.

As part of the SIA outreach program, staff members
surveyed the records of The Phillips Collection in Wash-
ington, D.C., and wrote a report to guide development
of an archival and records-management program.

Among the important accessions in 1987 was the Mark
H. Dall Collection, which contains additional material on
William Healey Dall, explorer of Alaska and Smithsonian
curator of mollusks. The SIA also acquired the papers of
tick expert Harry Hoogstraal and those of Brooke Hindle
and Robert P. Multhauf, emeritus senior historians of the
National Museum of American History.

The SIA made significant additions to its historical re-
cords of professional societies, receiving collections from
the American Association of Museums, American Society
of Mammalogists, and Society of Vertebrate Paleontol-
ogy. The SIA also acquired the records of the USGS Pale-
ontology and Stratigraphy Branch, as well as a large
collection of field maps from the U.S. Fish and Wildlife
Service facility at the Patuxent Wildlife Refuge in
Maryland.

Reference Service

SIA staff members responded to more than sixteen hun-
dred reference inquiries in 1987 and furnished more than
fifty-five hundred items and some twenty-seven thousand
copies to researchers. Much staff time was devoted to
aiding researchers working on a Smithsonian Books vol-
ume on expeditions, which 1s being written by Dr. Her-
man Viola, director of the Quincentenary Program of the
National Museum of Natural History. Considerable as-
sistance was also given to Dr. Sally Gregory Kohlstedt,
Syracuse University, who is studying natural history
museums.

The ongoing tally of publications based in part on SIA
research and materials increased by a record number in
1987. These publications included Theodore Roosevelt,
Culture, Diplomacy, and Expansion: A New View of
American Imperialism, by Richard H. Collin (Baton
Rouge: Louisiana State University Press, 1985); “William
Rich of the Great U.S. Exploring Expedition and How
His Shortcomings Helped Botany Become a Calling,” by
Richard H. Eyde, in Huntia 6(z) (1986); and “The Devel-
opment of the National Museum at the Smithsonian In-
stitution, 1846-1855: A Response to Joel J. Orosz’s
Article,” by S. Dillon Ripley and Wilcomb E. Washburn,
in Museum Studies Journal 2 (1987).

The Archives continued its lecture series, “Research in
Progress.” Visiting researcher Richard Beidleman of Col-
orado College discussed Charles Darwin and his work in
Australia, and Alan R. Hardy, insect biosystematist at
the California Department of Food and Agriculture, gave
a lecture on John Lawrence LeConte. Mike Foster, a free-
lance writer from Colorado, discussed F. V. Hayden’s
development as a naturalist, and Sally Gregory Kohlstedt
spoke on past Smithsonian Assistant Secretary George
Brown Goode’s role as a historian of American
science.

Projects

The Smithsonian Oral History Project made considerable
progress in 1987. Completed and transcribed interviews
of Institution administrators and scholars raised the col-
lection total to 302.5 hours of recording, accompanied by
forty-nine hundred pages of transcripts. The project ben-
efited from the participation, for the first time, of Univer-
sity of Maryland graduate students, who recorded
interviews of bureau staff members.
Work on “Science in National Life,” a video history
program funded by a grant from the Alfred P. Sloan
Foundation, began in earnest in 1987. The program sup-
ports the efforts of Smithsonian historians and curators
to document the history of science and technology
through the use of videotape. These scholars produced
forty-two hours of original videotaped interviews from
five projects—on topics ranging from the history of mini-
and microcomputers to a study of early X-ray astronomy
and aeronomy. Additional videotaping by the Archives’
oral historian documents the career of G. Arthur Cooper,
Smithsonian curator emeritus of paleobiology.

The SIA’s ongoing survey of the Institution’s photo-
graphic collections was highlighted by the completion of
work in the National Museum of Natural History. Sur-
veying continued at the Archives of American Art and
was begun at the National Portrait Gallery. By the year’s
end, the total number of collections surveyed since the
inception of the project stood at about fifteen hundred;
these collections contain more than 6.5 million photo-
graphs. Reports describing the collections exceeded a to-
tal of seven thousand pages.

In tandem with this activity, members of the survey
project completed and submitted for peer review a 117-
page glossary of terminology describing photographic
processes, forms, and genre. In addition, the Finders’
Guide to Photographic Collections at the Smithsonian In-
stitution: National Museum of American History was
completed, and work progressed in the preparation of the
second and third Finders’ Guides—for the natural science
bureaus and art museums. The staff also assisted more
than one hundred photo-collection managers and cura-
tors from Smithsonian bureaus and outside organizations
in solving reference, management, and conservation
problems involving audiovisual resources. A grant from
the Women’s Committee of the Smithsonian Associates
enabled members of the project and the SIA historian to
prepare and conduct a two-part seminar on preserving
and managing videotape, audiotape, film, and photo-
graphic materials. Featuring speakers from the Library of
Congress, National Archives, and Smithsonian, the semi-
nar advised staff members from various offices on the
care of their resources.

In a related project, 16-millimeter films that document
work of the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute dur-
ing the r950s were transferred to videotape. Transfer of
the films, which were donated by former Smithsonian
Secretary Alexander Wetmore, was supported by a grant
from the Atherton Seidell Endowment Fund.

88

Exhibitions

The Archives made two major loans from its collections
in 1987. Owen G. Warren’s drawings of proposed plans
for the Smithsonian Castle were loaned for exhibition in
the Regents Room. Architectural drawings by Warren,
James Renwick, and John Notman were loaned to the
National Building Museum in New York for display in
the IBM Gallery of Science and Art as part of the exhibi-
tion “Building a National Image: Architectural Drawings
for the American Democracy, 1789-1912.”

The SIA also presented two new exhibitions during the
past year. “The J. Victor Carus Photograph Album” fea-
tured photographs of Charles Darwin and other natural-
ists. In “The Harriman-Alaska Expedition, 1899,” the
photographs of Edward S. Curtis were displayed, along
with some of the specimens collected by Robert Ridgway
and William Healey Dall.

Two new numbers in the archives’ Guides to Collec-
tions series were published in 1987. James A. Steed wrote
the Guide to the Records of the Office of the Secretary
(Charles D. Walcott), 1890-1929, and William E. Cox
was the author of the Guide to the Paul D. Hurd, Jr.,
Papers, 1938-1982.

J. R. Patterson and the skin of a grizzly bear killed by him in
Arizona, 1922. This photograph was found when the Smith-
sonian Institution Archives recently processed the papers of
Hartley H. T. Jackson of the Bureau of Biological Survey.
39
Smithsonian Institution
Libraries

As keeper and manager of collections totaling nearly one
million volumes, including twenty thousand journal titles
and twenty-five thousand rare books, Smithsonian Insti-
tution Libraries (SIL) supports the Institution’s research
and curatorial activities and its public education pro-
grams. Through continuing involvement in the creation
of a national bibliographic data base and further refine-
ment of its own automated system, the SIL has greatly
increased its utility and accessibility to researchers inside
and outside the Smithsonian. The SIL serves the general
public through reference, loan, and other information
programs and through publications, exhibitions, and
lectures.

SIL services are available through a network of four-
teen branch libraries housed at thirty-six locations—in
Washington, D.C., and the surrounding area; New York
City; Cambridge, Massachusetts; Mount Hopkins, Ari-
zona; and Panama. The performance of the SIL staff at
branches and central service units is enhanced through
the contributions of sixty-nine volunteers, twelve stay-in-
school employees, and four student interns.

A member of the Association of Research Libraries, the
SIL consists of three operational divisions and a Planning
and Administration Office. Notable developments during
the past year include a grant from the Atherton Seidell
Endowment Fund to support the documenting of astro-
nomical data analysis systems, a project begun in 1986 by
the branch at the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observa-
tory. Planning began for the final stages of the renovation
of the libraries’ central offices. In addition, the SIL added
three telefacsimile machines to enhance communication
and interlibrary loans among branches. Highlights of
SIL’s three divisions and its public education programs
are presented below.

Automated Systems

The SIL continued to exploit the advantages of electronic
technologies in applications ranging from information
and resource sharing on an international basis to routine
administrative tasks. The Automated Systems Division
furthered development of the Smithsonian Institution Bib-
liographic Information System (SIBIS), bringing the divi-
sion closer to its goal of creating a fully integrated data
base that encompasses all of the libraries’ vast holdings.
To this end, the division is gradually replacing all card
and microform catalogues, circulation files, and other pa-
per files with a single source of bibliographic information
that can be updated continuously and accessed from any-

90

where in the Institution. The on-line catalogue, in combi-
nation with sophisticated search mechanisms, spares
researchers the circuitous, sometimes fruitless quests for
bibliographic information. Though not fully completed,
SIBIS is so heavily used by Smithsonian staff and outside
researchers that the SIL added more dedicated terminals
to the system in 1987, and it increased the number of
telecommunication links.

Complicated by various changes in the location of col-
lections, conversion of bibliographic records to the com-
puterized system—carried out by SIL staff, volunteers,
and outside contractors—is nearly finished. Moreover,
the backlog of uninventoried and uncatalogued items is
steadily decreasing. In 1987, the SIL began cataloguing
the 8,650 gift items stored at the SIL Remote Annex. This
rich trove of materials had largely been inaccessible to
researchers because of the lack of a catalogue or index.
In addition, the SIL supplemented in-house cataloguing
of some nine thousand uncatalogued rare books in the
SIL Special Collections by contract cataloguing. Among
other uncatalogued materials is a collection of about
230,000 pieces of trade literature. This collection of retail
catalogues for such goods as seeds, furs, and auto parts is
one of the largest of its kind and represents an important
information source for studies of the history of American
commerce. Because of the vastness of this important
body of materials, however, cataloguing efforts, as well
as implementing measures to ensure physical access, are
fraught with logistical problems. An indexing method de-
vised by the Automated Systems Division should over-
come these obstacles and could serve as a model for
handling trade literature at other libraries.

In tandem with these efforts, the division began de-
tailed planning for an on-line automated circulation sys-
tem. Debuting in 1988, the system will provide detailed
inventory and tracking information on all items in SIL
collections. As part of this effort, bar-code identifiers,
which can be read and recorded on computer with opti-
cal scanning equipment, were generated for more than
450,000 volumes. Further enhancements of SIBIS, such as
an on-line authority control of names and subjects, will
be implemented in 1988.

The division also planned and installed a local area
network that links, by means of computer, the units
within the SIL central administration and integrates all
computer-aided tasks. Coordination of all SIL activities
was strengthened by an Electronic Mail System. Intro-
duced in 1986, the system allows the branches and central
offices to communicate electronically, greatly improving
efficiency.
Electronic technology has fostered greater cooperation
between the SIL and other libraries, a relationship that
directly benefits Smithsonian researchers through broader
access to bibliographic materials. The SIL continued to
be an active participant in the Online Computer Library
Center (OCLC), an international bibliographic data base
involving more than six thousand libraries. In 1987, the
division took a major step toward standardizing its head-
ings to match those of the Library of Congress. Using a
tape of all SIL holdings, a company that specializes in
bibliographic services is categorizing Smithsonian head-
ings according to Library of Congress headings of names
and subjects. The resulting cross-reference system will in-
crease access to SIL collections. Finally, the division pre-
pared a computerized listing of the libraries’ museology
holdings for inclusion in the computerized data base of
the International Council of Museums (ICOM) in Paris.

Research Services

In 1987, six of the fourteen branches that make up the
Research Services Division either moved, were consoli-
dated, or underwent other major physical changes that
entailed rearranging entire collections, or at least substan-
tial portions of them. The Museum of African Art
Branch moved from its Capitol Hill location to its new
location on the National Mall. With the closing of the
Smithsonian Environmental Research Center’s Rockville
Branch, new homes had to be found for the branch’s
collections throughout the Institution and at the SIL Re-
mote Annex. Three branches—the Museum Reference
Center, Office of Horticulture, and main location at the
National Museum of Natural History (NMNH)—under-
went renovation and expansion. Finally, window repairs
at the Cooper-Hewitt Museum Branch made it necessary
to rearrange the collection in the rare-book room.

Each project was preceded by weeks, sometimes
months, of careful planning that tracked the moves of
each and every volume in a collection. Expansion of the
NMNH Branch, for example, entailed integrating more
than 125,000 volumes that had been housed at three sites.
With the exception of the natural history and African art
collections, division staff not only attended to organiza-
tional details but also provided the considerable physical
labor required to move the books.

Similar exercises are in store for the division. Branches
of the National Air and Space Museum and the National
Museum of American History are planning changes that
will require moving large portions of their collections.

Smithsonian Institution Libraries reception for “Nota Bene,” an
exhibition celebrating the tenth anniversary of the opening of
the Dibner Library, Special Collections Branch, in October
1986. Secretary Robert McC. Adams with Dr. and Mrs. Bern
Dibner.

The Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory Branch is
about to reorganize holdings at its site in Cambridge. In
addition, the planned transformation of the SIL Remote
Annex into a working branch will necessitate a major
investment of brain and brawn.

Installation of computers at a number of branches has
improved operations, expediting searches for materials,
responses to reference inquiries, collection and analysis of
statistics, and preparation of internal reports. Branch-to-
branch communications on the Electronic Mail System
have also contributed to smoother operations.

In 1987, the division launched a final, concerted effort
to reclaim the more than one thousand items borrowed
from the Library of Congress before 1984. By the year’s
end, some 660 of these items had been located and re-
trieved from curatorial offices, the shelves of the SIL, and
the stacks of the Library of Congress itself. Negotiations
with Library of Congress administrators will determine
actions in regard to unrecovered volumes.

With support from the Research Opportunities Fund,
two Research Services librarians participated in interna-
tional conferences and cooperative bibliographic projects.

91
Katharine Martinez, chief of the Cooper-Hewitt Branch,
presented a paper on the Smithsonian art libraries to the
annual conference of the International Federation of Li-
brary Associations in Brighton, England. Joyce Rey-Wat-
son, chief of the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory
Branch, assisted in preparing a new English-version man-
ual for Sets of Identifications, Measurements, and Bibli-
ography for Astronomical Data (SIMBAD), a creation of
France’s Strasbourg Observatory. At a conference on “As-
tronomy from Large Data Bases,” hosted by the Space
Telescope-European Coordinating Facility at Garching-
bei-Munchen, West Germany, Rey-Watson reported on
“Access to Astronomical Literature through Commercial
Databases.” She also discussed an ongoing project to col-
lect software documentation specific to astronomical data
at the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory Branch.

While on part-time leave from the SIL, Ellen Wells,
chief of the Special Collections Branch, has been conduct-
ing research for a bio-bibliography of James G. Wood,
prominent popular writer on natural history in late nine-
teenth-century England.

Collections Management

The Collections Management Division began implement-
ing recommendations of the final report of the SIL Preser-
vation Planning Program. The report, issued in 1986,
highlighted the fact that nearly one-third of the libraries’
general collections (items not housed in rare-book facili-
ties), including more than 90 percent of volumes pub-
lished between 1870 and 1930, are severely deteriorated.
It emphasized the need to devote more resources to pre-
serving the general collections.

The division is recruiting a preservation specialist to
devise and administer procedures and policies to guard
against further damage. To safeguard collections at the
SIL Remote Annex, drywall and air-conditioning are be-
ing installed; and to protect newly purchased volumes,
the division increased funding for binding paperback and
serial books. More than ten thousand volumes were
bound in 1987.

Many volumes in the SIL collections are too brittle to
rebind or repair. The only preservation option is to con-
vert the contents of these books to microform or another
stable medium. This work will soon be under way. The
SIL solicited contract proposals for producing a micro-
form collection of volumes relating to international expo-
sitions that were published between 1850 and 1917. The
contract also calls for the production of a bibliographic

92

guide to the microform collection. The SIL began evalu-
ating the proposals as the year drew to a close.

In 1987, the division’s Book Conservation Laboratory
was selected as host for a Postgraduate Conservation In-
tern. Sponsored by the Smithsonian’s Conservation Ana-
lytical Laboratory, the intern will begin work at the SIL
in fall 1987. During the past year, the Book Conservation
Laboratory hosted interns from Colombia and Israel.

Public Programs

The tenth anniversary of the Smithsonian’s Dibner Li-
brary, a collection of rare books on the history of science
and technology, was celebrated with the exhibition “Nota
Bene.” The display of twenty-nine books spanning 443
years featured volumes notable for their historical signifi-
cance and for the curious annotations readers inscribed in
margins and flyleaves. The exhibition was a fitting com-
memoration of the Burndy Library’s donation of more
than ten thousand rare books—including three hundred
incunabula, or volumes printed before 1501—and some
sixteen hundred manuscripts. The books and manuscripts
were collected by Dr. Bern Dibner, a Connecticut inven-
tor and entrepreneur.

The Dibner Library featured two additional exhibitions
in 1987. “Aristotelian Science in the Dibner Library” dis-
played manuscripts and early printed books on the natu-
ral philosophy of Aristotle and his followers. As part of
the exhibition, Professor William A. Wallace, of the
Catholic University in Washington, D.C., gave a lecture
entitled “The ‘Wheel of Aristotle’ in Guevara and Galli-
leo.” “Classics of Physiology,” the third exhibition in the
Dibner Library, commemorated the hundredth anniver-
sary of the founding of the American Physiology Society,
which cosponsored the exhibition with the SIL.

Another exhibition celebrated the tenth anniversary of
the SIL Book Conservation Laboratory by illustrating tra-
ditional methods of binding and book repair and modern
ultrasonic techniques. In addition, the SIL sponsored a
panel discussion, “Books from the Attic: What Are They
Worth?”

As part of its mission to support the full range of
Smithsonian activities, the SIL loaned more than seventy
rare books and manuscripts to the National Museum of
American History for its exhibition “Isaac Newton and
the Principia: Three Hundred Years.”

Publishing, translating, and other scholarly activities
punctuated SIL programs in 1987. With the American
Cut Glass Association, SIL copublished a facsimile L.

Straus and Sons Richest Cut Glassware, which was origi-
nally printed in 1893. A new library guide for the Mu-
seum of African Art Branch was published for the
September opening of the new museum complex. The SIL
also published the brochure “Gift Information for Do-
nors.” The SIL Translation Publishing Program received
eight translations for scientific editing, returned five ed-
ited manuscripts for printing, and placed orders for six
new translations. Copies of 149 previously published
translations were distributed to scholars.

SIL staff members participated in a variety of profes-
sional meetings and published numerous articles and
book reviews. Visitors to the Libraries in 1987 included
librarians from the Consortium of Universities of the
Washington Metropolitan Area, the People’s Republic of
China, Indonesia, Japan, and Chile, as well as students
from the Institute of Federal Library Resources, Catholic
University, and Kent State University.

Staff Changes and Appointments

Vija L. Karklins was named SIL acting director in Octo-
ber, when Robert Maloy assumed the position of senior
historian. Maloy spent the year doing research on medie-
val manuscripts in Lyons, France. Frank Pietropaoli,
chief of National Air and Space Museum Branch, retired
in February and was succeeded by Martin Smith. Mau-
reen Canick was appointed chief of Central Reference
and Loan Services, and Pauline T. Lesnik reported for
duty as chief of Acquisitions Services in September. Silvio
A. Bedini retired from his position as special assistant to
the director after twenty-six years of service to the
Institution.

Smithsonian Tropical
Research Institute

Just as favorable economic conditions can support more
elaborate human civilizations, favorable tropical climates
allow organisms more ways of life, more elaborate rela-
tionships between predators and prey, and more intense
and ingenious forms of competition for food and mates.
The adaptations of organisms are most elaborate, most
varied, and most obvious in tropical habitats. Under-
standing the roles, adaptations, and interdependencies of
tropical organisms still provides, as it did for Darwin and
Wallace, a perspective essential to understanding the nat-
ural world as a whole and the appropriate role of hu-
mans therein.

The Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute (STRI) is
devoted to understanding tropical nature, to sharing this
knowledge, and to helping in the preservation of tropical
ecosystems. To this end, STRI is steward of the fifty-
four-hundred-acre Barro Colorado Nature Monument,
comprising Barro Colorado Island, a forested island in
Gatun Lake in the middle of the Panama Canal, and sur-
rounding peninsulas. The institute and the tropical forest
reserve in its care are unparalleled in two respects. No
other tract of tropical forest has been studied in such
great detail, and STRI offers premier facilities to support
continuing research.

In addition, the institute is ideally located for compara-
tive studies of the Atlantic and Pacific oceans, separated
only three million years ago. The environments of the
two oceans are very different, but they contain remarka-
bly similar stocks of organisms.

With its experienced research staff, its financial sup-
port for predoctoral and postdoctoral students—some re-
served specifically for students from developing
countries—and its excellent library and laboratories,
STRI is a major world center for tropical research. The
accounts below decribe some of the institute’s research
and education activities in 1987.

The Mechanics of Natural Selection

Biological organization is the product of natural selec-
tion—the differential reproductive success and survival of
populations of organisms. Knowledge of the complex
process of natural selection is key to understanding the
dynamics of individual species and of the relationships
between species.

Consider the relationship between plasmids—small
self-replicating circles of genetic material—and their bac-
terial hosts. Although capable of autonomous replication
inside their host, plasmids sometimes insert themselves

93
into the chromosomes of bacterial cells and are copied
along with the bacteria’s normal complement of genes.
William Eberhard, STRI biologist, has been reviewing
current knowledge of this biological relationship to deter-
mine, among other things, when plasmids act as destruc-
tive parasites and when they are useful to their host. He
has found that plasmids often contain genes that yield
advantages to bacteria in unusual circumstances, such as
conferring resistance to certain man-made drugs.

Natural selection also is manifested through competi-
tion for mates or sexual selection. STRI biologist A.
Stanley Rand has resumed his study of the mechanics of
sexual selection among tungara frogs. Males in this spe-
cies use a two-part call—a “whine” followed by one or
more “chucks”—to attract females. Rand has found that
females prefer males with deep voices, regardless of the
callers’ body size. Another aspect of female preference
poses a risk to suitors. Females are more attracted to
calls with chucks, but so are predatory bats. In a related
study, Andrew Green, a STRI short-term fellow, is inves-
tigating the relationship between the amount of time
males spend feeding and the amount of time they devote
to calling for females.

Mate choice and reproductive behavior in Zygopachy-
lus, a species of “daddy longlegs” (opilionid), is the re-
search focus of Giselle Mora, STRI predoctoral fellow.
The species is unique within this group of spiders because
males guard the eggs after females lay them on male-
made nests. Some nests attract many more females than
others, but in nests with only a few eggs, males will often
drive away prospective mates, sometimes with the aid of
the female that had laid the eggs. Mora seeks to deter-
mine whether this behavior is an example of evolving (or,
perhaps, dissolving) monogamy.

Institute biologist Mary Jane West Eberhard is investi-
gating whether sexual selection can also result in the evo-
lution of a new species without geographic isolation. She
is studying parasitic ants that live and feed in the colonies
of a very closely related species of nonparasitic ants.
Among the differences between the two species is the
smaller size and less aggressive nature of queens in the
parasitic species. West Eberhard is examining whether
this size difference accounts for the emergence of the par-
asitic species. Ant queens tend to mate with males of
roughly equal size. Thus, small males in the host ant
species probably do not join the mating flights of large
females because of their size disadvantage. According to
West Eberhard’s hypothesis, the smallest reproductive
females also may remain in the nest and mate with small
males. These mating preferences may have favored the

94

evolution of a reproductively isolated strain of small par-
asites. If this can be demonstrated, it would be one of the
few documented instances in which geographic isolation
did not play a role in speciation.

Competition

The biology of understory herbs illustrates the intensity
of competition in tropical forests. Alan Smith, STRI biol-
ogist, found that when a canopy tree falls, reproduction
of understory herbs increases dramatically, beginning one
year after the “window of light” was created in the can-
opy. The prolific spurt is short-lived, however. Within
four years, tree regrowth reduces the amount of light
reaching the forest floor to normal levels. A year later,
according to Smith’s study, reproduction of understory
herbs also returns to normal levels. The availability of
light is the main factor affecting the growth of the un-
derstory plants. Smith found that irrigating the plants
during the dry season had little effect when sunlight was
intercepted by their taller competitors.

Predation and Its Effects

By necessity, many aquatic and terrestrial organisms in
tropical ecosystems have developed particularly elaborate
“strategies” to avoid the nearly constant threat of preda-
tion. STRI postdoctoral fellow Hugh Sweatman has been
studying the behavior of a lizardfish, Synodus synodus,
and of its prey, two species of goby. Sweatman is using a
lifelike replica of a lizardfish to learn how the goby avoid
their predator. One goby species gives an alarm signal
when a lizardfish is nearby. The likelihood of this re-
sponse increases as the predator moves closer—unless the
lizardfish is so near that the potential victim becomes mo-
tionless—and as the goby gets closer to its hiding place.
On the basis of his observations, Sweatman infers that
the goby uses the alarm as a signal to the lizardfish that it
is aware of the predator’s presence and can escape if pur-
sued. Although the other goby species also has the same
signal in its behavioral repertoire, Sweatman found no
correlation between the presence of the lizardfish and the
goby’s use of the signal as if the signal’s function had
changed.

Sometimes timing makes the difference between sur-
vival and falling victim to a predator. The larvae of inter-
tidal crabs, for example, generally hatch when they are in
the least danger of being eaten. In a study of hatching
Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute Director Ira Rubinoff making a presentation on the institute’s marine research programs at
a field station in the San Blas Archipelago during the Kuna General Congress, May 2, 1987, Isla Tigre.

patterns in the Pacific Ocean and Caribbean Sea, staff
biologist John Christy and STRI postdoctoral fellow
Steve Morgan found that two major crab groups hatch at
dusk. On the Pacific side, where tides are regular and of
wide amplitude, the larvae of these crabs tend to hatch
fortnightly on strong spring tides that effectively flush
them to sea. On the Caribbean side, where tides are ir-
regular and weak, this fortnightly pattern is poorly
developed.

On Barro Colorado Island, Mitchell Aide, STRI post-
doctoral fellow from the University of Utah, and Cybele
Londono, STRI Exxon fellow, have shown that rapid
growth helps protect Gustavia superba from caterpillars
of the skipper butterfly Entheus priassus. Leaves of un-

derstory Gustavia grow to full size in a week, three times
faster than most species. The nitrogen content of the ex-
panding leaves is double that of other plants, fostering
rapid growth but also making the young foliage unusu-
ally nutritious and attractive to herbivores of all kinds.
Skippers lay eggs on young buds and growing leaves.
Most eggs hatch on the day the leaf is fully expanded, or
the day before. Fully expanded leaves, however, are too
tough for the new caterpillars, and many die.

Plants of the euphorb genus Omphalea have developed
a different means of protection, a biochemical defense to
keep leaf-eating insects at bay. A research team consisting
of STRI’s Neal Smith and collaborators from England’s
Kew Gardens and the University of California at Irvine

95
discovered that Omphalea makes compounds that mimic
the sugars glucose, fructose, and mannose. The feet of
many insects contain sugar-processing enzymes, and the
plant’s compounds block the enzymes, forcing insects to
cease their eating or egg-laying. Day-flying urantid moths
are an exception, however. Urania caterpillars feast on
Omphalea leaves and sequester the plant’s enzyme-block-
ing compounds. STRI research suggests that the com-
pounds protect the larvae from insect predators, although
the chemicals do not dissuade vertebrate predators. The
research also exposed an interesting twist in the moth-
plant relationship. After one or more defoliations, Om-
phalea plants somehow repel Urania. The mechanisms
responsible for this defense response are under
investigation.

Disrupting the balance between prey and predators can
have community-wide consequences. In 1980, hurricane
Allen devastated coral reefs on the north coast of Ja-
maica. Nancy Knowlton of the STRI staff has been moni-
toring subsequent changes. Populations of snails,
polychaete worms, damselfish, and other coral predators
did not decline. Feeding by these organisms has further
depleted reef-coral populations, especially those of Acro-
pora cervicornis. The nearly complete demise of long-
spined sea urchins (Diadema), the result of an outbreak
of disease in 1983, has aggravated the problem. Because
there are not enough urchins to keep them in check, al-
gae are overgrowing and “smothering” coral. According
to Knowlton’s measurements, algae now cover 90 percent
of some quadrats (squares of vegetation randomly chosen
for analysis), and live coral cover only 5 percent.

Herbivores can also exert community-wide influences
in forests. STRI biologist Stephen Hubbell has completed
two successive censuses of stems more than 1 centimeter
in diameter on a 50-hectare plot in Barro Colorado’s ma-
ture forest. He has found that if the nearest neighbor of a
sapling with a stem diameter of 1-4 four centimeters 1s a
canopy tree of the same species with a trunk diameter of
30 centimeters, the sapling grows more slowly and is less
likely to survive the year than if it were next to a tree of
a different species. This finding suggests that plant-eating
insects and animals help maintain tree diversity. By con-
suming saplings near the parent trees, specialist herbi-
vores create space for trees of other species to grow
between parents and their surviving offspring.

Hubbell’s finding, however, does not apply to all spe-
cies. Audrey Liese, a short-term fellow, and S. Joseph
Wright, a STRI staff member, found that soil microbiota
from beneath the parent plant enhances the growth of
Calophyllum longifolium seedlings. In contrast, soil from

96

a different Calophyllum, as well as sterilized soil from
beneath the parent tree, did not promote growth.

Seasonal Rhythms of Tropical Plants

A study by postdoctoral fellow Mitchell Aide suggests
that herbivores may have helped shape the seasonal
rhythms of the tropical forest. He found that, in the un-
derstory, many species of shrubs and saplings less than 3
meters tall produce new leaves during the first third of
the dry season. The plants leaf again in April and May,
the first two months of the rainy season, and then shut
down production until September. Herbivore damage is
greatest during the rainy season, and leaves produced at
the end of the rainy-season peak are more heavily eaten
than those produced in April. The opposite is true during
the dry season: Leaves produced near the end of the sea-
son suffer less damage than earlier growth, because, per-
haps, many insects cannot tolerate the heat and drought
of the late dry season. Aide’s observations suggest that
leaf production in the dry season may be an evolutionary
response to the seasonal rhythm herbivory.

In a novel irrigation experiment, S. Joseph Wright has
been working to identify the factors that govern the tim-
ing of leaf production, leaf drop, and flowering. On two
2.25-hectare plots on Barro Colorado Island, Wright kept
the soil saturated through two successive dry seasons.
Despite the dramatic environmental change, the leafing
and flowering patterns of most tree species did not
change. Tabebuia guayacan was the most notable excep-
tion. Under normal conditions, the species is leafless dur-
ing the dry season and flowers in response to dry-season
rains. During the irrigation experiment, however, the tree
held on to its leaves into the normal rainy season and
flowered branch by branch in July, with different
branches out of phase.

Fluctuation, Variation, and Disruption

To assess the susceptibility of natural populations to hu-
man disturbances, it is important to understand how and
why these populations vary in the absence of human
disturbances.

In the San Blas Islands, institute staff member Ross
Robertson has been monitoring fluctuations in popula-
tions of gobies. The small coral-reef fish had been abun-
dant, with population densities of up to fifty animals per
square meter. Robertson documented a 95 percent drop
in goby populations over a six-month period. Failure of
larval goby to survive in plankton interrupted recruitment
of young fish. No young settled on the reef for four
months, an unusually long break in recruitment. Robert-
son did not find corresponding interruptions in the re-
cruitment of other species of coral-reef fish.

Since Barro Colorado was formed in 1973 as a result of
damming the Chagres River during the construction of
the Panama Canal, several bird species have disappeared
from the island. James Karr, STRI’s deputy director, has
been evaluating characteristics of the species that might
account for their absence from the island. Among under-
story birds of the nearby Parque Nacional Soberania on
the Panama mainland, the annual survival rate (61 per-
cent) for species still present on the island was signifi-
cantly higher than the rate for species no longer
represented there. Karr also has determined that the spe-
cies with the lowest survival rates on the mainland are
those that were the first to disappear from the island.

STRI scientists also are evaluating the impacts of a ma-
jor human-caused disturbance—an April 1986 oil spill
near Galeta, site of the institute’s mainland marine sta-
tion on the Caribbean. With support from the U.S. De-
partment of Interior, a research team led by STRI’s
Jeremy Jackson is analyzing the spill’s effect on popula-
tions that inhabit the reef flat at Galeta and on organisms
in adjacent habitats exposed to varying concentrations of
oil. The scientists will compare these documented respon-
ses to population changes attributed to “natural” distur-
bances, as determined in STRI studies conducted over the
past thirteen years. From core samples of corals, which
live for centuries and lay down annual rings, the team
will also compare the impact of the oil spill on coral
growth rates with other fluctuations in growth rates dur-
ing the past few hundred years.

Archaeology and Paleoecology

The institute’s research in archaeology and paleoecology
(the study of ecological conditions during early geological
times) reveals long-term environmental changes and their
impact on ecosystems. For example, core samples ob-
tained by drilling into the bottom of La Yeguada, a lake
that sits 600 meters above sea level in Veraguas, reveal
remarkable climatic variations. Two of the four cores,
taken by STRI’s Richard Cooke, working with Dolores
Piperno, Temple University, and Mark Bush, Ohio State
University, reached bedrock after penetrating through 18

Jacqueline Idol, research assistant at the Smithsonian Tropical
Research Institute, taking photographs of the forest canopy on
Barro Colorado Island. Computer analysis of these photographs
provides accurate data on forest light environment—an impor-
tant aspect of ecophysiological research on the island.

meters of sediment. The oldest of these sediments formed
12,800 years ago.

Analyses of pollen and plant fossils indicate that local
vegetation from about 9000 B.C. to 7000 B.C. was domi-
nated by oaks (Quercus) and hollies (I/ex). These rem-
nants suggest a cool, damp climate, because today such
plants are found at altitudes above 1,500 meters. Sedi-
ment samples also indicate that after 7000 B.C. the cli-
mate was much drier than it is today. Evidence of
burning by humans appears at 6000 B.C. and evidence of
agriculture by 4000 B.c. These dates accord with conclu-
sions from other studies of Panama and South America.
In another study, STRI biologist Jeremy Jackson and
Peter Jung, University of Basel, Switzerland, have been
surveying Panama’s marine fossils that date back to the
Neogene epoch, which began twenty-six million years
ago. They have found amazing local variation in the
faunas and evidence of extremely high sedimentation
rates. There is much to learn about the impact of the rise
of the Isthmus of Panama on marine life.

Mediating between Man and Nature

A major concern of the institute is the restoration of
damaged environments. Gilberto Ocana of the STRI staff
is experimenting with ways to make degraded pasture-
land useful on a sustainable basis. Three years ago, he
planted four hundred leguminous trees (Gliciridia se-
pium) on a 1-hectare plot of otherwise useless land, and
interplanted among them kudzu vines, manihot, bananas,
and other plants. Ocana calculated that his experimental
plot can support twenty-four goats, each one producing
an average of 156 liters of milk per year. In addition, the
nitrogen-fixing trees and vines supply enough of the vital
nutrient to sustain the growth of other crops. This form
of agriculture could eliminate the need to burn and clear
new land for farming, relieving some of the development
pressure on Panama’s forests.

Another ongoing project, led by STRI visiting scientist
Dagmar Werner, has similar aims. Werner has been rais-
ing iguanas in captivity, adjusting dietary and rearing
conditions to improve their growth rates. Iguanas are a
favorite food in many parts of Panama, but hunting and
tree-cutting are threatening the animals’ survival. The
STRI scientist has released two thousand ten-month-old
iguanas in gallery forest of Cocle province and fifteen
hundred hatchlings into gallery forest at Chupampa in
Herrera province. With the help of local farmers, Werner
has established feeding stations for these iguanas. The
effort appears to be a success. Werner’s evaluations indi-
cate that survival rates for the introduced animals are
higher than they are for wild iguanas studied on Barro
Colorado Island.

Education and Conservation

The Smithsonian, Exxon Corporation, Jessie Smith
Noyes Foundation, and other donors continued to pro-
vide support for STRI’s fellowship and assistantship pro-
grams. This funding allowed more than ninety men and

98

women from North America, Europe, Asia, and Latin
America to pursue their own studies or participate in on-
going research projects at the various STRI facilities. The
institute’s educational program was strengthened in 1987
with the creation of a three-year postdoctoral position in
tropical forest biology.

Characteristic of the ongoing cooperation between the
institute and the University of Panama is the new joint
course on bryophytes and lichens under the direction of
Dr. Noris Salazar, a university specialist in bryophytes.
The course fills a gap in the university’s curriculum and
will foster greater knowledge of Barro Colorado Island’s
flora. One product of the course will be a guide to the
island’s mosses and liverworts.

As part of the institute’s public education program, ini-
tiated in 1986, STRI staff members made presentations to
civic groups, students, and professional associations. The
new “Barro Colorado Nature Trail Guide,” also designed
for the general public, has received high praise from edu-
cators and conservationists and is used extensively by stu-
dents and other visitors to the island. To increase its
educational value, the guide was translated into Spanish.

For nine months, Jorge Ventocilla, STRI environmen-
tal specialist, and Rosa Argelis Ruiz de Guevara, of
STRI’s Naos Marine Laboratory, carried out an extensive
environmental education program in the Kuna Yala (San
Blas) Archipelago, a string of islands along Panama’s
Caribbean coast inhabited by thirty thousand Kuna Indi-
ans. The pair visited more than seventy communities,
traveling from island to island in a 1o-foot-long dugout
canoe. At each site, Ventocilla and Guevara presented a
two-hour slide show and distributed posters and pam-
phlets specially prepared for the program and partly
funded by the Women’s Committee of the Smithsonian
Associates. The aim of this program was to explain to
the Kuna Indians the presence of STRI on the archipel-
ago, the value of basic marine research, and how the
resulting information can be used to help preserve their
environment, now under intense human pressure. In
1987, the institute and the Kuna General Congress signed
an agreement that formalizes STRI research in archipel-
ago waters.

Other Activities

In a private ceremony, STRI Director Ira Rubinoff re-
ceived the National Order of Vasco Nunez de Balboa
from the Panamanian minister of health. The honor rec-
ognizes Rubinoff for his “excellent research work . . .
converting STRI into the most well-known center of ma-
rine research in the tropics . . . contributing with genuine
interest in the establishment of important fellowship pro-
grams, travel grants, and work for young Latin American
scientists.”

Also in 1987, STRI and two other Panama-based or-
ganizations were charged with organizing the 1992 World
Congress of National Parks. The International Union for
Conservation of Nature designated Panama the 1992 site
to commemorate the five hundredth anniversary of Col-
umbus’s first voyage to the New World.

The institute continued to contribute to the work of
local organizations. It presented a set of “Diversity En-
dangered” materials to Fundacion PA.NA.MA., a conser-
vation consortium, and gave a poster exhibit, “Black
Women: Achievements against the Odds,” to the Afro-
Antillean Museum of Panama’s National Institute of Cul-
ture. In addition, STRI special assistant Elena Lombardo
serves on the board of directors of Panama’s new Metro-
politan Nature Park. The institute awarded several small
grants to support surveying of indigenous plants and
birds and to aid development of a nature trail.

Director Ira Rubinoff traveled to the Forest Research
Institute in Malaysia, with the aim of strengthening ties
and, ultimately, establishing a cooperative scientific
agreement between the two institutes. STRI continues to
assist scientists in several countries with the development
of forest census plots like the one on Barro Colorado
Island.

The institute also remained active in its role as an advi-
ser in efforts to develop biological-inventory and environ-
mental-assessment programs that will be initiated by the
Trinational Canal Alternatives Study Commission.

Facilities Development

Groundbreaking ceremonies for the Tupper Research and
Conference Center took place on April 3, 1987, attended
by David Challinor, Smithsonian assistant secretary for
research, the president of Panama, and representatives
from many Panamanian agencies. Initiated with a $4 mil-
lion grant from the Earl Silas Tupper Foundation, the
center will permit consolidation of the institute’s terres-
trial programs and provide modern facilities for planned
projects in molecular evolution and plant physiology.
The facility will be completed in late 1988.

A new dormitory was completed in Gamboa. The eight
apartments in the unit will make it easier for researchers
to conduct studies in the adjacent Parque Nacional Sob-

erania. Finally, marine research facilities were substan-
tially improved with the renovation of the old Surfside
Theatre building on Naos Island. The facility provides
office and laboratory space for scientists working on the
Galeta oil spill project.

Staff Changes and Appointments
STRI Director Ira Rubinoff began a one-year sabbatical

on July 1. James Karr is serving as acting director, and
Alan Smith as acting deputy director.

eh)
’
¥

iy :
ere:
MUSEUMS

Tom L. Freudenheim, Assistant Secretary for Museums
Anacostia Museum

OOOOOOOCS
OO9OO0000
999900000

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
ANACOSTIA MUSEUM

Past FORT PL MCE

4. Museum of Aimer an History and (ture
POTS T TT

The Anacostia Museum’s new facility opened in May 1987. (

Two decades ago, in a converted movie theater, a novel
museum was born. Originally intended to serve the resi-
dents of Southeast Washington, D.C., the Anacostia
Neighborhood Museum evolved from a strictly local in-
stitution to a museum internationally recognized for its
programs on Afro-American history, art, and culture.
Along the way, it inspired the creation of more than one
hundred Afro-American museums across the United
States.

Fittingly, in the year of its twentieth anniversary, the
museum underwent important changes. It shed the
“neighborhood” designation in its name, a change that
reflects the museum’s national and international reputa-
tion, and in May, the Anacostia Museum unveiled its
new, more spacious facility, atop Fort Place in Southeast
Washington’s historic Fort Stanton Park. For the first
time in the museum’s existence, all staff and activities are
housed at one location. The consolidation will foster
more creative and productive collaborations among staff
members, and it will enhance the research, design, and
production of exhibitions and eductional programs.

The Anacostia Museum’s new quarters feature an exhi-
bition hall, a multipurpose room, and offices. Scattered
about the wooded grounds are picnic tables and benches.
To inform visitors of the historical significance of Fort
Stanton Park, named for the fort built to protect the
Navy Yard during the Civil War, the National Park Serv-
ice will install a panel exhibit in the museum’s lobby.

Exhibitions and Educational Programs

The museum’s main thrusts continue to be enlightening
visitors about Afro-American culture and explaining the
social, political, and cultural contributions of black
Americans. “Contemporary Visual Expressions,” the in-
augural exhibition at the new facility, demonstrated these

IO2

Photograph by Harold Dorwin)

$OO000006

090000006
090000000

aims. The exhibition featured the works of four contem-
porary black American artists: Sam Gilliam, Martha
Jackson-Jarvis, and Keith Morrison—all of Washington,
D.C.—and William T. Williams of New York. “Contem-
porary Visual Expressions” was organized by visiting cu-
rator Dr. David Driskell, professor of art at the
University of Maryland.

Also in 1987, staff members carried out research and
planning for the exhibition “Climbing Jacob’s Ladder:
The Rise of Black Churches in Eastern American Cities,
1740-1877,” which describes the vital role these churches
played in emerging black communities. The exhibition
opened in October 1987. Another exhibition in prepara-
tion, “Afro-American Inventors and the Quest for Recog-
nition, 1619-1930,” will trace the contributions black
Americans have made to technological progress. A com-
panion publication is being written for this exhibition.

At its old location, the museum featured the exhibition
“The Renaissance: Black Arts of the Twenties.” Many
visitors to the exhibition participated in tours led by
members of the museum’s Department of Education.
Other activities at the old facility included a vintage-film
series, talks on Afro-American art, poetry readings, and a
program on Kwanzaa—the Afro-American holiday based
on the African harvest festival.

At its new quarters, the museum resumed its popular
“Lunch Bag Forums,” which featured talks by artists Sam
Gilliam and Keith Morrison. In the series “Meet the Art-
ists,” five local artists and craftspeople demonstrated
their skills and gave informal talks. In addition, the mu-
seum offered a for-credit seminar on black visual artists
that attracted teachers from several local school systems.
With the help of a grant from the Women’s Committee of
the Smithsonian Associates, the Education Department
organized a “Family Day” at the museum. Nearly five
hundred people attended the event.
Archives of American Art

The Archives of American Art is the Smithsonian’s re-
search bureau in the field of American art history. Its
collections of correspondence, photographs, and other
documents total more than eight million items, providing
the historical evidence scholars need to further their re-
search. Through the efforts of its six regional centers, the
Archives continually adds to its collections. Besides mak-
ing its holdings available to researchers, the Archives en-
courages scholarship by publishing a quarterly journal
and by sponsoring seminars, symposia, and lectures.

In 1987, graduate students, museum curators, college
and university faculty members, and free-lance art histo-
rians made thirty-three hundred visits to the six regional
centers, each one containing copies of the Archives’ col-
lections on microfilm. In addition, the Archives lent nine-
teen hundred rolls of microfilm to libraries around the
country. One gauge of the research conducted at the Ar-
chives is the number of research publications based on
studies of the collections. More than two hundred arti-
cles, exhibition catalogues, and books published during

Bertha, Etta, Claribel, and Moses Cone in India, 1907. The Baltimore Museum of Art: Cone Archives

m &

rN
2
44

the past year cited Archives sources. These works in-
cluded major studies of Alexander Archipenko, Gene
Davis, John Graham, John La Farge, John Singer Sar-
gent, Charles Sheeler, John Storrs, early modernism in
American art, and New Deal photography projects.

Exhibitions and Programs

In addition to lending selected documents to other mu-
seums for their exhibitions, the Archives organized an
exhibition of photographs, letters, and other items illus-
trating the Bauhaus school and its influence on American
art, design, and architecture. The Archives’ center in
Southern California organized a symposium, attended by
hundreds, that examined the complex history of that re-
gion’s visual arts. The Washington, D.C., center contin-
ued to sponsor its series of informal seminars, in which
art historians discuss the problems and results of their
current research.

Acquisitions

The Archives made many important additions to its col-
lections in 1987. It acquired a large group of papers of
Holger Cahill, which detail Cahill’s roles as head of the
Works Progress Administration’s Federal Art Project and
as promoter of American folk art. Also acquired were a
substantial collection of the papers of Dorothy-Miller,
dealing with her postretirement career as author and ad-
viser to collectors of modern art; the voluminous records
of the Milch Gallery, one of New York’s most prominent
art galleries during much of this century; and the records
of the National Arts Club, a thriving artists’ organization
founded in 1897. Esther McCoy, a leading West Coast
architectural historian, donated her papers; Ise Gropius,
widow of Walter Gropius, a founder of the Bauhaus
school, provided a copy of her diary and memoirs; and
Mrs. Abraham Rattner turned over important additions
to the Rattner papers. The Archives also received inform-
ative groups of letters written by Alexander Calder, Ceci-
lia Beaux, and William Glackens, and it microfilmed the
papers of Claribel and Etta Cone, Baltimore’s best-known
collectors of modern art.

Collections Management

The transfer of the Archives card catalogue to the Smith-
sonian’s main-frame computer advanced substantially in

104

1987, as did the inventory of collections and work to
preserve items of special value. The Archives continued
to make progress in its ambitious program to prepare
detailed descriptions of its holdings of photographs and
works of art on paper. During the past year, it received
generous grants from the Mellon Foundation and the
Getty Memorial Trust to support a three-year project de-
signed to enhance descriptive information on the collec-
tions and to facilitate retrieval of this information.
Arthur M. Sackler Gallery
and Freer Gallery of Art

The Arthur M. Sackler Gallery, housing an unparalleled
collection of the art of Asia, opened on September 28,
joining the Freer Gallery of Art as a Smithsonian museum
devoted to research and exhibition in the field of Asian
art. With this combination of museums, the Institution
clearly established itself as a world center for the study of
Asian art and culture.

Inaugural celebrations were tinged with sadness over
the death of Dr. Sackler on May 26. As the museum’s
primary benefactor, Dr. Sackler had shown an enthusias-
tic interest in its development and had eagerly awaited
the installation of his inaugural gift of approximately one
thousand masterworks of Asian art. Jill Sackler, who
shares her late husband’s interest in the art and culture of
Asia, attended the opening events, which included a sym-
posium, a program of lectures on Asian art, a concert at
the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts, and
a festschrift in honor of Dr. Sackler.

During the months preceding the opening, the Sackler
and Freer staff, who serve both museums, clocked count-
less hours of work, attending to the final preparation of
the seven inaugural exhibitions, as well as publications
and programs. Behind-the-scenes work also included
moving the entire Freer Library to larger quarters in the
115,000-square-foot Sackler Gallery. A haven for scholars
of Asian and American art since the Freer Gallery of Art
opened in 1923, the library contains forty-five thousand
volumes, half of which are in Chinese or Japanese, and
more than two hundred periodicals. The new facility also
features a slide library and provides much-needed space
for the library’s archives. Holdings include the Herzfeld
Archive of Persian and Near Eastern architecture and ar-
chaeological sites; the Myron Bement Smith Archive,
which offers extensive visual documentation on a wide
range of subjects relating to the Islamic world; the Carl
Whiting Bishop Collection of early twentieth-century
photographs of China; the correspondence of museum
benefactor Charles Lang Freer; and a collection of photo-
graphs of the Dowager Empress Cixi (1835-1908).

Distinguished guests of the galleries included Berna-
dette Chirac, wife of the French premier. The first official
visitor to the Sackler, Mrs. Chirac toured the nearly com-
pleted galleries with Assistant Director Milo Beach and
Dr. and Mrs. Sackler. Other distinguished guests who
came to view the collections and discuss future exhibi-
tions and programs were His Excellency Jamsheed K. A.
Marker, ambassador of Pakistan, and his wife; His Ex-
cellency Kyung-Won Kim, ambassador of Korea; His Ex-
cellency El-Sayed Abdel Raouf El-Reedy, ambassador of
Egypt; His Excellency Soesilo Soedarman, Foreign Minis-

ter Kusumaatmadja Mochtar, and Director of Museums
Bambang Soemadio, all of Indonesia; His Holiness Dri-
kung Kyabgon Chetsang Lama of Ladakh, India; and a
delegation from the People’s Republic of China Ministry
of Culture.

Arthur M. Sackler Gallery

Dr. Sackler’s inaugural gift was organized into four ma-
jor thematic exhibitions and three smaller displays. “In
Praise of Ancestors: Ritual Objects from China,” the
largest of the exhibitions, featured about five hundred
Chinese ritual bronzes and neolithic jades, some dating to
as early as the fourth millennium B.c. “Monsters, Myths,
and Minerals,” displaying 123 jades, bronzes, and ceram-
ics dating from the eleventh century B.c. to the eight-
eenth century, explored the use of animal imagery in
Chinese art, legend, and literature. “Pavilions and Im-
mortal Mountains: Chinese Decorative Art and Painting”
included more than two hundred examples of Chinese
furniture, paintings, and objects in jade, lacquer, and ce-
ramics, spanning the third century B.c. into the present
century. “Nomads and Nobility: Art from the Ancient
Near East” featured Dr. Sackler’s small but choice collec-
tion of gold, silver, bronze, ivory, and ceramics from the
ancient Near East, including Iran, Anatolia, and the Cau-
casus, dating from the third millennium B.c. through the
seventh century.

During their exploration of the gallery’s 22,000 square
feet of exhibition space, visitors could also view three
small installations: “Temple Sculpture of South and
Southeast Asia,” “Chinese Buddhist and Daoist Imagery,”
and “Persian and Indian Paintings: Selections from a Re-
cent Acquisition.” The last of these was a preview of a
major exhibition of the Henri Vever Collection, sched-
uled for late 1988.

To enhance the viewing of serious and casual visitors
alike, a variety of publications and guides was prepared
for the museum’s opening. Asian Art, a new quarterly
journal published by Oxford University Press in coopera-
tion with the Sackler Gallery, is aimed at scholars and
Asian art enthusiasts in the general public. The hand-
book Asian Art in the Arthur M. Sackler Gallery: The
Inaugural Gift features catalogue entries on 211 objects,
as well as five essays, three maps, a glossary, an anno-
tated bibliography, and an index. Other publications in-
clude a generously illustrated book about the new
museum, four gallery guides, a general information bro-
chure, a bimonthly calendar of events, five exhibition

LO5
posters, and a floor plan. An expanded docent corps,
now numbering forty, added the Sackler collections and
opening exhibitions to their tour repertoire.

Freer Gallery of Art

In preparation for a three-year construction project that
will connect the Freer and Sackler galleries and expand
conservation and collection-storage facilities, nine of the
ten exhibition areas on the east side of the Freer Gallery
were closed to the public in 1987. A representative selec-
tion of works from the Freer’s Chinese, Japanese, Indian,
Near Eastern, and American collections remained on
display.

The project will create convenient access between the
two museums, and it will add greatly needed space and
facilities for conservation work and for exhibition and
storage of the Freer’s collections, which have nearly dou-
bled over the past fifty-four years. Literally “carved out”
from beneath the Freer courtyard, the expanded facilities
will increase the collection-storage area by 70 percent and
will add more than 1,000 square feet of exhibition space.
The area for conservation facilities, located on the
ground floor of the Freer Gallery, will more than triple,
from 1,750 to 5,765 square feet.

In addition, the north lobby’s grand entrance, con-
ceived by the Freer’s architect, Charles A. Platt, will be
returned to its intended use, as the gallery shop is to be
moved to a larger, self-contained area on the ground
floor. Construction plans also call for improved access
for people with physical disabilities, renovation of the
auditorium with staging area for public programs and an
enlarged projection booth to accommodate simultaneous
translation, and conference and teaching rooms. Ex-
panded locker facilities for staff and additional rest-
rooms, drinking fountains, and telephones are among
additional improvements planned.

The Boston firm of Shepley Bulfinch Richardson and
Abbott, architects of the Smithsonian’s new museum
complex, are the designers of the Freer construction pro-
ject. Interior finishes and furnishings in the collection-
storage areas are being designed by E. Verner Associates,
Inc., also a Boston architectural firm.

“Nomads and Nobility: Art from the Ancient Near East,” one
of four major inaugural exhibitions at the Arthur M. Sackler
Gallery, featured ceramics and metalwork from the Achae-
menid, Parthian, and Sassanian empires. (Photograph by Kim
Nielsen)

Pera u ce.

Conservator Jane Norman works on a thousand-year-old Chi-
nese head of Buddha prior to its installation in the central stair-
case of the Arthur M. Sackler Gallery. (Photograph by John
Tsantes)

Among the important additions to the Freer collections
in 1987 was a jade bi (disk) made in China during the
third millennium B.c. It was donated by the Charlottes-
ville/ Albemarle Foundation for the Encouragement of
the Arts (CHALFA), a group that has made several gen-
erous contributions to the Freer Library. The ancient disk
was presented to the Smithsonian in honor of Dr.
Thomas Lawton, director of the Freer and Sackler galler-
ies, who received the CHALFA Award for his “outstand-
ing contributions to the arts.”

The Visiting Committee of the Freer Gallery of Art
added two members in 1987. Frederick Mote of Princeton
University and Sherman Lee, director emeritus of the
Cleveland Museum of Art, agreed to serve.

Research and Public Education

Programs of research and education at the Freer and
Sackler galleries strive to make the brilliance and diver-

107
sity of Asian artistic traditions better known to the pub-
lic—to people unfamiliar with Asia and to scholars and
students for whom Asia is already the most exciting area
on Earth. The museums’ staff members contribute di-
rectly to this effort through their own studies. In 1987,
the scholarly range of the museums was expanded with
the addition of Dr. Ann Gunter, the curatorial staffs first
specialist in the art of the ancient Near East.

The Freer and Sackler galleries continued the Freer’s
long-standing tradition of providing support for visiting
scholars. In 1987, Dr. Wheeler Thackston, senior precep-
tor in Persian language at Harvard University, spent the
summer in residence at the museums. As a Smithsonian—
Rockefeller Foundation Resident in the Humanities, he
studied Timurid inscriptions on paintings in the two col-
lections in preparation for a major loan exhibition
planned for 1989. Cao Yin and Song Xiangguang of the
Department of Archaeology at Beijing University began a
year of training in museum studies. Upon their return to
the People’s Republic of China, the pair will offer courses
in museum operations at the university and at the new
Arthur M. Sackler Museum of Art and Archaeology be-
ing built on the university's campus.

Also during the past year, the museums created a De-
partment of Education and appointed Lucia Pierce, a spe-
cialist in Chinese studies, to direct the new unit. Working
with other units of the two museums, the new depart-
ment aims to engage young and old, scholar and non-
scholar, with the rich and varied field of Asian art. A
broad range of programs—from story-telling sessions that
help children explore Asian traditions to lectures and live
performances by international artists—has been devel-
oped in conjunction with the four major inaugural exhi-
bitions of the Sackler Gallery.

108

Conservation Analytical
Laboratory

The Conservation Analytical Laboratory (CAL) is the
Smithsonian’s specialized unit for research into the con-
servation, examination, and characterization of museum
objects and related materials. Members of the laborato-
ry’s staff, a multidisciplinary group of forty conservators,
scientists, and engineers, often assist specialists in other
bureaus. CAL also features a growing training program
for conservators and conservation students, and it pro-
vides an array of information services to professionals at
other museums and to the general public. Last year, for
example, a team of CAL staff members provided on-site
technical assistance and training at an important archaeo-
logical excavation in Harappa, Pakistan.

A sampling of other activities and accomplishments
during 1987 is presented below.

Archaeometric Research

The Conservation Analytical Laboratory is internation-
ally recognized for its expertise in unlocking the secrets of
past cultures from archaeological artifacts. Such archaeo-
metric research uses a variety of analytical techniques to
determine, for example, the basic chemical composition
of ancient artifacts and to gather clues about how the
objects were made. Pieced together with other archaeo-
logical and anthropological evidence, this information
may reveal whether the artifacts were made in the area or
brought by trading expeditions from another region.

To get this fundamental information, CAL staff mem-
bers employ an array of sophisticated instruments—
housed at the laboratory and at the National Bureau of
Standards’ research reactor in Gaithersburg, Maryland.
Working at the reactor, a source of neutrons that is es-
sential for several analytical methods, CAL researchers
made excellent progress in characterizing Hopi ceramics.
These efforts, now proceeding into the second phase of a
wide-ranging multidisciplinary study involving Hopi rep-
resentatives and several institutions, are helping to define
the social dynamics of the Indian nation during and after
the great migrations of the last quarter of the thirteenth
century, a period of extreme drought in the Southwest.
The resulting consolidation of once widely dispersed
Hopi communities into seven major pueblos was accom-
panied by major changes in styles of pottery and in the
way the ceramics were made.

In another project, laboratory researchers are using
neutron activation analysis and other techniques to study
the pottery of early Spanish settlements in Central Amer-
ica and Spanish La Florida. They are comparing these
analyses with those of similarly styled ceramics found in
Spain.

Other archaeometric research focuses on the ceramics
of the Middle and Far East. Laboratory researchers and
collaborating French archaeologists completed their study
of the ceramics of the Middle East’s Helmand and Indus
Valley civilizations, while analyses of the faience wares
(fine, glazed pottery) from the Middle and Far East con-
tinued. Studies of Korean celadons (sea-green pottery and
porcelain) and Chinese stonewares—an investigation in-
volving scientists from the People’s Republic of China—
progressed in 1987. CAL researchers also are investigating
Islamic frit-porcelain—similar in appearance to Chinese
porcelain, but made from glass instead of clay—and the
trade of ceramics in West Asia between A.D. 700 and
A.D. 1000. In a collaborative effort, CAL organic chem-
ists and the Yale University Ethnobotany Department are
analyzing resins from trees in Malaysia for clues to the
area’s cultural heritage. The indigenous peoples of Ma-
laysia and of other parts of Southeast Asia still use tree
resins for a variety of purposes, including dyes, glue, and
medicine. By characterizing these tree resins, the re-
searchers hope to learn more about archaeological objects
found in the region.

Among the new projects begun in 1987 was an investi-
gation of potential sources of ore for early Middle East-
ern silver and bronze manufacture. Another new project
is focusing on the earliest known ceramics, which were
unearthed in Czechoslovakia. Estimated to date back to
26,000 B.C., the artifacts include figurines of Venus and
of mammoths, wolverines, deer, and other animals.

In its continuing collaboration with the National Mu-
seum of American Art, the laboratory used autoradi-
ographic techniques and other methods in a study of the
works of Albert P. Ryder, who is noted for his landscape
and marine paintings. Lead isotope analyses of Chinese
bronzes from the Sackler Gallery collection were com-
pleted in 1987.

Conservation Research

The objective of the laboratory’s conservation research is
to understand, at a fundamental level, the chemical and
physical processes that can damage museum objects. This
knowledge serves as the basis for devising preventative
measures or new protective techniques.

In a project supported by the Getty Conservation Insti-
tute, CAL launched a major study of the effects of a
widely used fumigant on proteinaceous materials, such as

_—~

Conservation Analytical Laboratory scientist Melanie Feather
uses the newly installed scanning electron microscope/ electron
microprobe to study a sample of an archaeological plaster ob-
ject. The resulting information helps to elucidate questions
about condition and manufacturing technology.

leather, silk, and wool. In other projects, the conserva-
tion of books, documents, and other paper-based objects
is being examined from several perspectives. One con-
tinuing study is assessing the validity of methods of
accelerating the aging of paper as analytical tools for un-
derstanding natural aging behavior. Another study is
comparing the effectiveness and safety of using different
wavelengths of light for bleaching discolored paper. Re-
searchers are also evaluating how treatments using water
and other solvents affect the bonding within and between
fibers in paper.

The laboratory’s ongoing studies of climate in build-
ings include an investigation of the Renwick Gallery’s re-
constructed facade. Automated sensors were installed,
allowing for continuous monitoring of humidity condi-
tions and heat-transport phenomena.

To guide the laboratory’s research on preserving pho-
tographs, an advisory committee of experts was formed.
Meeting for the first time in 1987, the committee assisted

[09
in setting short- and long-range objectives for the photo-
graph-conservation project and helped select a scientist to
start the recommended research.

A laboratory study of a large marble statuary yielded
an improved cleaning technique, and a separate project
evaluated the effects of boiling on archaeological iron ar-
tifacts, a treatment commonly used to remove chlorides.
In preparation for the treatment of seven-thousand-year-
old neolithic plaster figurines from Jordan, a series of
consolidants were tested for their appropriateness and
effectiveness.

To strengthen its conservation program, the laboratory
recruited a materials research engineer in 1987. Antici-
pated activities for this new staff member include imple-
menting a program to study the mechanical properties of
the material components of museum objects. The effect
of changes in chemical composition on complex mechani-
cal strain patterns and the resultant deterioration of these
objects would be part of the research program.

Training

The laboratory’s conservation training program expanded
significantly in 1987. A cooperative agreement with the
Materials Science and Engineering Department at the
Johns Hopkins University established a new university
graduate program in conservation science, in which re-
search will be conducted at CAL. Laboratory staff mem-
bers will teach several of the courses offered in the
program. In 1987, CAL awarded fellowships to two stu-
dents. In addition, six new postgraduate conservation in-
ternships were added to the laboratory’s training program
for professional conservators and students. These interns
were placed at various conservation laboratories in the
Institution.

The first class in CAL’s four-year training program in
furniture conservation successfully completed its initial
year of coursework. The laboratory also organized sev-
eral in-depth courses for specialists, and it produced an
instructional videotape on humidity control in museums.

In the information program, staff members continued
to integrate the laboratory’s bibliographic files into the
new international Conservation Information Network,
which became operational in September 1987. Staff mem-
bers also consulted on conservation-related problems
with their counterparts at other Smithsonian bureaus and
at other museums in the United States and abroad. In
addition, CAL responded to questions from the general
public.

IIo

Cooper-Hewitt Museum

The Cooper-Hewitt Museum, the Smithsonian’s National
Museum of Design since 1967, was founded ninety years
ago as a working resource, a visual index to the history
of the design arts. Located in New York City, the mu-
seum occupies Andrew Carnegie’s Georgian-style man-
sion and a neighboring townhouse—gifts of the Carnegie
Corporation to house the museum and its vast collec-
tions. Wall coverings, decorative art objects, textiles, and
prints and drawings constitute the nucleus of this world-
famous center for the study of design. The museum’s in-
ventoried permanent collection numbers more than
167,000 items, representing the cultures of Europe, Asia,
and other regions of the world over a span of three thou-
sand years. The museum’s library houses fifty thousand
volumes, including five thousand rare books, that expand
on the themes of the object collection and serve as a
unique resource for scholars and designers alike.

Exhibitions

The Cooper-Hewitt’s active and diverse program of
changing exhibitions continued to attract both popular
attention and critical acclaim. In 1987, the museum pre-
sented twelve exhibitions. “Milestones: Fifty Years of
Goods and Services” marked the golden anniversary of
the Consumers Union and presented fifty innovations
that, in the view of Consumer Reports magazine, “revo-
lutionized our lives.”

Two major surveys of the museum’s permanent collec-
tions celebrated the Cooper-Hewitt’s tenth season in its
present facilities. “Perspective: The Illusion of Space”
considered the ways artists, designers, and architects have
used the rules of perspective to create an illusion of space
in two-dimensional drawings. “Recollections: A Decade
of Collecting” represented traditional and innovative col-
lecting patterns in each of the museum’s departments:
textiles, decorative arts, prints and drawings, and wallpa-
per. Smaller exhibitions devoted to other aspects of the
permanent collections included “Folding Fans,” a fasci-
nating look at beautifully designed and crafted objects
from Europe and the Orient; “Safe and Secure: Keys and
Locks,” with examples from ancient to high-tech times;
and “Crystal Palaces,” a survey based on a volume of
extremely fine and rare nineteenth-century photographs
of London’s original “Crystal Palace.”

Two important international exhibitions highlighted
modern architecture and design. Both exhibitions—“Ber-
lin 1900-1933: Architecture and Design” and “The Cata-
lan Spirit: Gaudi and His Contemporaries,” which
Made of iron, this Spanish lock and key probably came from a
chest dating from the late sixteenth or early seventeenth century
and were featured in the Cooper-Hewitt Museum’s exhibition
“Safe and Secure: Keys and Locks.”

focused on Barcelona—were well received by critics and
the general public. Additional architectural exhibitions,
organized by outside groups and modified by the Cooper-
Hewitt staff for presentation in New York, explored se-
lected works of Louis Sullivan and Frank Lloyd Wright,
two of America’s most original architects.

The museum staff also coordinated and produced com-
panion publications for several of the exhibitions in 1987.

The German-English volume accompanying the exhibi-
tion on design and architecture in Berlin featured essays
by four German scholars. A similar volume on Gaudi and
his contemporaries will consist of essays by three Ameri-
can scholars and a Spanish colleague. A grant from the

J. M. Kaplan Fund, Inc., helped support publication of
both volumes. Collections handbooks for the “Folding
Fans” and “Locks and Keys” exhibitions were published
with the aid of the New York State Council on the Arts
and the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation.

Collections Management

Management of the Cooper-Hewitt’s extensive holdings is
a continuous activity, involving careful inventorying and
recordkeeping of new and existing items, monitoring and
processing of loans to other museums, and storage and
conservation of objects not on exhibition. More than six
hundred acquisitions and thirteen hundred loan transac-
tions were handled by the registrar during the first three
quarters of 1987. Over the same period, the museum’s
Textile and Paper Conservation Laboratories treated
nearly six hundred items that will be included in a future
exhibition. Computer workstations were installed in the
Registrar’s Office and the Department of Decorative Arts,
to be followed in the future by workstations in the re-
maining three curatorial departments.

The museum’s most important purchase was a thir-
teenth-century needlework rendering of a bodhisattva,
which is believed to have originated in China. Presuma-
bly in the seventeenth or eighteenth century, the figure
was incorporated into a Buddhist temple banner. This
remarkable object, purchased with the aid of the Smith-
sonian Institution Regents Special Acquisition Fund, was
added to the other extremely rare Oriental textile speci-
mens in the permanent collection. In addition, forty-six
items donated by Barry Friedman and Patricia Pastor will
form the nucleus of an industrial design collection
planned by the museum. Particularly interesting items in
this gift include the German “people’s radio,” which was
the ubiquitous household receiver for the propaganda
broadcasts of the Third Reich, and Ettore Sottsass’s
“Valentine” typewriter (c. 1969), which he designed for
the Olivetti Company.

Education

The Cooper-Hewitt/Parsons—New School Graduate
Study Program in the History of the Decorative Arts is

IIT
the Smithsonian’s only formal academic degree-granting
program. Accredited by the New York State Board of
Regents, the program awards a Master of Arts degree
upon acceptance of a satisfactory thesis and is a unique
training center for museum curation and related fields.
Ten students received degrees in 1987, and fifteen were
accepted for enrollment during the upcoming academic
year.

Other Cooper-Hewitt educational programs include
classes, workshops, symposia, tours, and a variety of
special events. In 1987, more than fifty-eight hundred stu-
dents participated in these programs. The diverse study
offerings during the past year included the architecture of
ancient Greece and of great American cities, seventeenth-
and eighteenth-century French decorative arts, the work
of pioneering industrial designers of the twentieth cen-
tury, the architecture and design traditions of modern
Berlin and Barcelona, a thousand years of Chinese art,
the history of the garden, the marine architecture of the
12-meter yacht, and the graphic design of contemporary
comic books.

Staff Changes

After serving as director of the museum for nearly eigh-
teen years, a span that featured more than 150 provoca-
tive exhibitions, Lisa Taylor retired in June 1987 and was
subsequently appointed director emeritus. Assistant Di-
rector Harold Francis Pfister was named acting director.

Planning for the Cooper-Hewitt’s fund-raising cam-
paign, which is essential to the museum’s intended expan-
sion, has been delayed until a new director is appointed.
In 1987, however, Representative Mary Rose Oakar of
Ohio introduced a bill (H.R. 2815) to authorize a future
appropriation of up to $15 million for capital improve-
ments. The bill, which calls for matching funds from pri-
vate sources, is cosponsored by Representatives Edward
Boland, Silvio Conte, Bill Frenzel, and Norman Mineta,
and it was referred to the Committee on House
Administration.

aeh2,

Hirshhorn Museum and
Sculpture Garden

The Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, the
Smithsonian’s museum of modern and contemporary art,
maintained an active exhibition schedule and acquisition
program in 1987. Complementary films, concerts, sympo-
sia, tours, and other educational activities supported
these programs. The museum’s reference library and its
departments of conservation, registration, and photogra-
phy continued to offer technical support to staff and
scholars.

Exhibitions

The first major exhibition of the year, “Recent Acquisi-
tions: 1983-1986,” presented a selection of mostly con-
temporary works acquired by the museum since its last
acquisitions show in 1983. Organized by Director James
T. Demetrion, the exhibition included works by Siah Ar-
majani, William Beckman, Richard Diebenkorn, Leon
Golub, Robert Irwin, Jess, Anselm Kiefer, Edward and
Nancy Reddin Kienholz, Sol LeWitt, Isamu Noguchi,
Claes Oldenburg, Frank Stella, Donald Sultan, William
T. Wiley, and others. “Nancy Graves: A Sculpture Retro-
spective,” an exhibition organized by the Fort Worth Art
Museum, began its four-city tour at the Hirshhorn Mu-
seum. Graves, who first received critical attention in the
1960s, creates open-form, multicolored sculptures whose
imagery derives from natural history, the sciences, and
objects of everyday life.

“Morris Louis,” organized by the Museum of Modern
Art in New York City, constituted the largest group of
works by the Washington Color School painter ever to be
assembled. Louis’s major series of paintings—Veils, Un-
furleds, and Stripes—were the focus of the exhibition.
“Roger Brown,” organized by Hirshhorn staff member
Sidney Lawrence, was the first retrospective in an East
Coast museum for the Chicago Imagist painter. The exhi-
bition’s national tour included stops at the La Jolla Mu-
seum of Contemporary Art, California; Lowe Art
Museum, University of Miami, Coral Gables, Florida;
and Des Moines Art Center, Iowa. The catalogue for the
retrospective was published for the museum by George
Braziller, Inc.

The Hirshhorn was the only American venue for “Lu-
cian Freud Paintings,” an exhibition of more than eighty
works by the British realist. After opening its tour in
Washington, the show, which was organized by the Brit-
ish Council, was seen in London, Paris, and Berlin.

Smaller exhibitions featuring works from the perma-
nent collection included “Bridging the Century: Images of
Cubist Bust, 1912-13, a bronze cast by Oto Gutfreund, is a
prime example of the transformation of sculpture during the
early stages of Modernism. The work is a partial gift to the
Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden from Mr. and Mrs.
Jan V. Mladek and partial purchase through the Joseph H.
Hirshhorn Purchase Fund.

Bridges from the Museum’s Collection,” organized by
museum historian Judith Zilczer. Frank Gettings, curator
of prints and drawings, organized two shows: “Patterned
Images: Works on Paper from the Museum’s Collection”
and “Arnold Newman Photographs Artists,” a selection
of photographs of artists whose work is in the permanent
collection. Moreover, a complete reinstallation of the
museum’s second floor incorporated recent acquisitions
and a number of works from the permanent collection
that had not been on view previously.

In addition to creating its own exhibitions, the mu-
seum lent ninety objects to forty institutions in 1987.
Among the many sculptures borrowed were four works
by Alexander Archipenko for the National Gallery of
Art’s centennial tribute to the sculptor and two pieces by
John Storrs for an exhibition at the Whitney Museum of
American Art in New York City. The Hirshhorn lent
nine paintings to Chicago’s Terra Museum of American
Art for “A Proud Heritage: Two Centuries of American
Art, with Selections from the Hirshhorn Museum and

Sculpture Garden.” A four-panel work by Donald Sultan
was lent to Chicago’s Museum of Contemporary Art for
its show of the artist’s work and for the exhibition’s sub-
sequent tour. The museum also lent a painting by Leland
Bell to the Phillips Collection in Washington, D.C., and
three works by Gene Davis for a memorial exhibition at
the National Museum of American Art. The Hirshhorn
also made significant loans to foreign institutions for
their exhibitions, including “Giacometti Dynasty” at the
Museo Rufino Tamayo in Mexico City and “Cy Twom-
bly,” whose itinerary included stops in Switzerland,
Spain, England, and France. In addition, a small group
of paintings was included in “New Horizons: American
Painting 1840-1910,” an exhibition organized by the
Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service for
a tour to the Soviet cities of Moscow, Leningrad, and
Minsk.

Education

The Hirshhorn Museum has broadened its efforts to en-
hance the experience of visitors who come to view its
special exhibitions and permanent collection. Besides
adding about 900 square feet of exhibition space in
lower-level galleries and relocating the gift shop to the
first-floor lobby, remodeling work created a small au-
diovisual theater that is used to acquaint visitors with the
museum. The orientation room features, on an alternat-
ing basis, a program about the current special exhibition
and an introduction to the Hirshhorn Museum and
Sculpture Garden. Production of the ten-minute introduc-
tory presentation was funded by a grant from the J. Paul
Getty Trust.

Designed to help viewers understand specific aspects of
the collection, a series of small brochures was launched.
The printing of the first guide, Cubist Sculpture, was un-
derwritten by the Women’s Committee of the Smithson-
ian Associates.

The orientation program and new guides will bolster
the museum’s already strong outreach programs. The De-
partment of Education initiated a special effort to recruit
members of minority groups for its docent program; four
were among the twenty new docents trained in 1987. The
museum’s one hundred docents conducted tours for more
than seventeen thousand visitors during the year. In addi-
tion, four undergraduate students participated in the
Hirshhorn’s summer internship program.

The “Currents” seminars for high school students con-
tinued, and new programs attracted students from the

113
ee :
iD
oe

Visitors to the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden’s retrospective Roger Brown enjoy the artist’s depiction of Washington, D.C.

area’s elementary and secondary schools. Regularly
scheduled films about and by artists continued to be pop-
ular, as did the museum’s special program of films for
young people.

Acquisitions

The museum’s permanent collection was enriched by
twenty-four gifts and ten purchases. Among the recent
acquisitions were three important examples of early
Modernism: Seguidilla (1919), a painting by Man Ray
that evokes the rhythms and music of the Spanish dance,

114

and two bronze casts, Angst (1911) and Cubist Bust
(1912-1913), by the Czech sculptor Oto Gutfreund, whose
fusion of elements of Cubism and Expressionism marked
the transformation of sculpture into a new idiom. Other
newly acquired paintings included Coral Tree (1983) by
Robert Helm; My Barn on a Summer Night (1982) by
Wolf Kahn; and Night Portrait (1985-1986), by Lucian
Freud. Among the notable sculpture acquisitions were
Untitled (1986), a large-scale work in stainless steel by
Ellsworth Kelly, which was installed on the plaza; 2-2-1:
To Dickie and Tina (1969, fabricated in 1986), a deli-
cately balanced work in steel by Richard Serra; and
Untitled (1986), a construction of lead, steel, and wool by
Jannis Kounellis.
National Air and Space
Museum

The National Air and Space Museum (NASM) is now
under the leadership of Dr. Martin Harwit, formerly a
professor of astronomy at Cornell University and codirec-
tor of the university’s program in the history and philoso-
phy of science and technology. Dr. Harwit, who
succeeded Acting Director James C. Tyler, has a long-
standing interest in linking research and education and in
communicating the major issues in aeronautical and
space research.

The new director assumed his duties in August, near
the end of another successful year of exhibition, research,
and education at one of the world’s most popular mu-
seums. These activities are described below.

Research

International in scope, the programs of the museum’s
three research and curatorial units—the Department of
Aeronautics, Department of Space Science and Explora-
tion, and the Center for Earth and Planetary Studies—
span the past and future of flight and broaden public
understanding of the heavens and Earth. The activities of
resident staff members are augmented by visiting schol-
ars, who use the museum’s singular collections of re-
sources to pursue their research interests.

In 1987, the Department of Aeronautics hosted three
visiting scholars, enhancing the museum’s role as an in-
ternational center for the study of the history of flight.
Appointed to the Charles A. Lindbergh Chair of Aero-
space History, Dr. John D. Anderson, University of
Maryland professor of aerospace engineering, conducted
research toward a definitive history on aerodynamics and
furthered his work on hypersonic flight. As International
Fellow, Ing. Jose Villela Gomez, Mexico’s leading avia-
tion historian, studied the growth and development of
the Mexican Air Force and the early Mexican airlines.
Professor Louis R. Eltscher of the Rochester Institute of
Technology completed his term as Verville Fellow, dur-
ing which he studied the Curtiss-Wright Aeronautical
Corporation and C-46 transport plane.

Members of the Aeronautics Department continued to
write articles and books for scholarly and popular audi-
ences. Rebels and Reformers of the Airways, by R. E. G.
Davies, curator of air transport, reveals the pioneering
contributions that a select group of individuals and com-
panies made to the now booming business of air delivery.
Department Chairman Von Hardesty, was coeditor and
translator for the English language version of Igor Sikor-
sky, The Russian Years, a Russian classic written by K.

N. Finne in 1930. Howard Wolko, special adviser for
technology, edited The Wright Flyer: An Engineering
Perspective, a technical examination of the world’s first
aircraft. Focke-Wulf Fw 190: Workhorse of the Luft-
waffe, the ninth volume in the Famous Aircraft of NASM
series, was completed by assistant curator Jay Spenser,
who gives a detailed account of the remarkable German
fighter plane. In a joint project, the Aeronautics and
Space Science and Exploration departments completed
the final manuscript for Air and Space History, an anno-
tated bibliography of the history of aviation and spacef-
light. The bibliography, which will be published in spring
1988, will fill a gap in the reference literature of aviation
and space history.

With the support of the Sloan Foundation and the mu-
seum’s Office of University Programs, the Aeronautics
Department conducted an intensive two-week seminar in
the history of aviation for students of Wellesley College’s
Technology Studies Program. The course, which demon-
strated how museum collections and exhibits can be used
as effective teaching tools, is the prelude to an even more
ambitious instructional program, now in the planning
stages. In 1987, the Sloan Foundation awarded a grant to
the Institution for creating a college-level curriculum in
the history of aeronautics, also based on museum re-
sources. At a June meeting, representatives of NASM and
the foundation’s New Liberal Arts Program began pre-
paring for a workshop on the “History of Aviation, Space-
flight, and Related Technology.” Products of the January
1988 workshop will be a videodisc demonstrating key
themes in the history of aeronautics and spaceflight, as
well as written course materials. Together, these instruc-
tional tools will constitute an aviation module in the New
Liberal Arts Program’s courses in the history of
technology.

In the Department of Space Science and Exploration,
a novel program, supported by the Glennan-Webb-
Seamans Fund for Research in Space History, completed
its second year. Using oral history interviews and tradi-
tional historical research techniques, department mem-
bers and visiting scholars are examining the impact of
large, publicly funded air and space programs in a socie-
tal context. The evolution of national policies, techniques
and systems of management, and the nature of the inter-
actions between the public and private sectors are among
the subjects under study in this multifaceted research
program.

The department also made progress in its efforts to
establish a corporate history program, which would trace
the contributions of U.S. firms to space science and ex-

115
116
ploration. The starting point is the Rand Corporation, a
significant, if not well-known, force in the development
of space travel. The cooperative project is documenting
the founding and early history of the company. With sup-
port from the Rand Corporation, the Glennan-Webb-
Seamans Fund, and the Smithsonian-Sloan Videohistory
Project, the department aims to broaden its research fo-
cus to other space-oriented firms.

The past year was an especially productive one for the
Program in the History of Space Science, a cooperative
undertaking involving NASM and the Johns Hopkins
University. Initially, participants in the two-year-old pro-
gram are concentrating on the history of the Hubble
Space Telescope—the yet-to-be-launched instrument that
will peer many times further into the universe than the
most powerful ground-based telescopes. During 1987,
members of the program completed a series of valuable
resource publications: Guide to Space Telescope Ar-
chives, Catalog of Space Telescope Oral History Inter-
views (which lists some 120 interviews), Space Telescope
Bibliography, and Selected Items in the History of the
Space Telescope. Another publication, Shaping the Space
Telescope: The Interpenetration of Science, Technology,
and Politics, is in preparation and scheduled for publica-
tion by Cambridge University Press in 1988. A newly es-
tablished resource unit at the museum serves as the
repository for documents and pictorial materials related
to the Space Telescope.

During 1987, Dr. Herbert Friedman, U.S. Naval Re-
search Laboratory (NRL), occupied the Martin-Marietta
Chair in Space History, spending the majority of his ten-
ure researching and writing a memoir on the origins of
X-ray astronomy. While Dr. Friedman was a resident
scholar, he and members of his original X-ray astronomy
group at NRL participated in videotaped interviews,
which were conducted as part of the Smithsonian-Sloan
Videohistory Project. Also during his tenure at NASM,
Dr. Friedman was awarded the Wolf Prize for his contri-
butions to high-energy physics.

In other scholarly endeavors, curator David DeVorkin
of the Space Science and Exploration Department com-
pleted a major manuscript titled The Origins of Strato-

An exhibition of aviation art by contemporary artist William S.
Phillips went on display at the National Air and Space Museum
on June 19. This 46-by-36-inch oil painting, Into the Sunlit
Splendor, was the signature piece of the show, which bore the
same title.

spheric Science in the United States. The manuscript was
submitted to a publisher for examination.

At NASM’s Center for Earth and Planetary Studies,
basic research on remote sensing of terrestrial and plane-
tary surface features continued, with emphasis on the
Earth’s desert regions and the Martian landscape. Analy-
ses of satellite images of Egypt, Mali, and Botswana
traced changes in the landscape of these African countries
over a nine-year period. Studies of Landsat data indicated
significant movement by active dunes. In contrast, images
of dunes stabilized by vegetation revealed no migration,
although lack of rainfall has increased local erosion.
These findings have been corroborated and extended by
fieldwork carried out in 1986.

Mapping of sand sheet deposits continued in the hyper-
arid desert core in western Egypt and northern Sudan.
Ancient drainage patterns now buried by the sand were
revealed by the Space Shuttle Radar Experiment. Current
mapping efforts concentrated on adjoining areas that
were outside the experiment’s radar surveillance. In addi-
tion to providing a more complete picture of the ancient
drainage network, the center’s studies in 1987 identified
where significant movement of the sand cover has oc-
curred. Estimates of total sand transport in these areas
are being prepared for comparison with the amount of
sand transported by dunes.

Data from SPOT, the French remote sensing satellite,
furthered center studies of deserts in Egypt and Saudi
Arabia. Satellite images are being used to map changes in
sand-dune patterns and variations in reflectivity in the
Bahariya Oasis region of western Egypt. The high-resolu-
tion data allow more precise estimates of the extent of
sand cover and even permit determination of whether in-
dividual fields are under active cultivation.

The center’s planetary research capitalized on several
new methods for analyzing data from the Viking probe
of Mars. With individual images gathered by the satellite,
investigators are using crater statistics to interpret the rel-
ative ages of tectonic events on the planet. This approach
may help explain the unusual topography in the eastern
equatorial region of Mars, where ancient, highly cratered
terrain abuts the smooth plains of the Northern Hemi-
sphere. The origin of this planetary dichotomy is under
debate, with competing theories suggesting a giant colli-
sion, crustal overturning, and other factors as potential
causes. Studies by Dr. George McGill, a visiting scientist
from the University of Massachusetts, indicated that
faulting along the boundary occurred over a short period
and that different areas within the region were active at
different times in Martian history.

117
In other activities, Ted Maxwell, chairman of the Cen-
ter for Earth and Planetary Studies, continued to serve as
editor for the Smithsonian Library of the Solar System
series. The series’ second volume, Mercury: The Elusive
Planet, by Robert Strom, was published during the past
year.

Collections

The museum acquired several historically significant air-

craft in 1987. These include: Voyager, the first aircraft—
flown by Dick Rutan and Jeana Yeager—to make a non-
stop, unrefueled trip around the world; a rare 1930s vin-

tage Junkers Ju-52 transport, donated by Lufthansa; and

famous acrobatic pilot Art Scholl’s modified de Havilland
DHC-1 Special Chipmunk.

NASM received the full-scale Hubble Space Telescope
Structural-Dynamic Test Vehicle. Studied in great detail
by members of the museum’s Space Telescope History
Project, the test vehicle, measuring 43 feet long and 15
feet in diameter, is the only full-scale counterpart to the
spacecraft that is awaiting launch from the Space Shuttle.
Restoration will begin in 1988.

The National Air and Space Archives accessioned 122
document collections in 1987. The more notable acquisi-
tions included personal papers and photographs of James
E. Webb, the boomerang documentation of Benjamin
Ruhe, six hundred patents from the Curtiss-Wright Cor-
poration, drawing collections of Peter W. Westburg and
Nicholas Van de Grift Karstens, and the records of the
Women Flyers of America. The Film Archive collected
more than 1,300 additional films, including 250 reels
from the Bell Aerospace Corporation and more than
twenty-five hours of documentation of the first 150 Delta
missile launches.

The newly organized Collections Management Depart-
ment includes the Office of the Registrar, the Information
Management Division, and the Collections Maintenance
and Preservation/Restoration divisions at the Paul E.
Garber Preservation, Restoration and Storage Facility in
Suitland, Maryland.

At Washington Dulles International Airport, the Gar-
ber staff is overseeing completion of a pre-engineered
storage facility that will house the Enterprise, the proto-
type Space Shuttle, as well as several other large aircraft
currently in outdoor storage at the airport. (During the
past year, several NASA and contractor teams used the
orbiter for testing and other work related to the overhaul
of the nation’s Space Shuttle fleet.) A second concrete pad

118

In an effort to make the space shuttle program safer, tests were
conducted during June 1987 by the National Aeronautics and
Space Administration on the Space Shuttle Enterprise, now in
the collection of the National Air and Space Museum. A run-
Way arresting system was tested and an astronaut film on emer-
gency escape procedures was taped.

was added for storage of a Lockheed Super Constella-
tion, which will soon be added to the aircraft collection.
At the Garber Facility, several major restoration projects
are nearing completion: a Fowler-Gage wooden biplane,
an OS2U Kingfisher seaplane, an Arado 234 German
bomber, the ATS-6 satellite test model, and the forward
fuselage of the Boeing B-29 Enola Gay.

The Office of the Registrar is participating in the devel-
opment of the Smithsonian-wide Collections Information
System. As part of this effort, the office, working with
the curatorial departments and the Collections Mainte-
nance Division, will extend the utility of the museum’s
automated inventory system, developed during the past
year by Howard Wolko. The end product will be an in
house collections information system tailored to NASM’s
research and collections-management requirements.

Two analog archival videodiscs were completed in 1987
by the museum’s Information Management Division.
NASM Videodise 4 contains the remaining fifty thousand
images of the U.S. Air Force’s pre-1954 still-photo collec-
tion; Videodisc 3 contains the first one hundred thousand
images. Videodisc 5, also issued in 1987 and produced in
collaboration with NASA and the Center for Earth and
Planetary Studies, holds images from the space agency’s
public affairs collections and 7o-millimeter photos shot
during Space Shuttle missions. Also in cooperation with
NASA, work was begun on Videodisc 6, which will fea-
ture lunar images taken during Ranger, Surveyor, and
Apollo missions.

Exhibitions

Emphasis in 1987 was on updating major galleries. The
World War I Gallery, one of the first exhibitions to open
in 1976, was dismantled and is being redesigned. The
new exhibition, “World War I Aviation: The Emergence
of Air Power,” will focus more on the harsh realities of
conflict in the skies, and it will explore more fully the
development of aviation as an integral element in war-
fare. The Stars Gallery was greatly expanded with the
addition of a section on the Hubble Space Telescope,
which draws heavily on the museum’s history project,
and a section on infrared astronomy, which includes a
full-scale replica of the Infrared Astronomical Satellite
and an array of other telescopes and detectors.

A special exhibition devoted to the realist aviation art
of contemporary American artist William S. Phillips
opened in the Flight and the Arts Gallery. “Into the Sunlit
Splendor” featured forty-five works based on the artist’s
own experiences and his interpretation of historical
events. The exhibition catalogue was written by Mary
Henderson, curator of art.

In the Space Hall, the new exhibition “America’s Space
Truck” tells the story of the Space Shuttle Program, from
the first launch of the Columbia in 1981, through the
disaster of the Challenger in 1986, to NASA’s plans for
the future. For two months, a children’s art unit, pro-
vided by McDonnell Douglas, was added to the exhibi-
tion. The forty-five pictures drawn by the five- and six-
year-olds who participated in “Lollypops & Launchpads
II” clearly demonstrated that children can grasp sophisti-
cated concepts of space exploration and express them in
creative ways.

To commemorate the hundredth anniversary of the
birth of Italian aviation pioneer Gianni Caproni, an ex-
hibit featuring Italy’s first military aircraft, the 1912 Cap-
roni CA.9 monoplane, was opened in the Early Flight
Gallery.

i

On August 31, the National Air and Space Museum was the
site of a tour by Soviet cosmonaut Valentina Tereshkova (left),
the first woman to travel in space; U.S. astronaut Mary Cleave
(center); and an unidentified interpreter. Among the sights the
women viewed was the Apollo-Soyuz Test Project, a coopera-
tive mission carried out in 1975 by the space agencies of the
Soviet Union and the United States.

The museum produced six films or videotapes to high-
light new exhibitions. Portrait of a Fighter, which fea-
tured the F6F Hellcat, won a bronze Cindy Award for
excellence in film production. Two additional presenta-
tions were produced in 1987—one for a public service
announcement and the other for fund-raising purposes.

Frank Florentine, NASM’s lighting designer, was rec-
ognized for his work in the Looking at Earth Gallery,
where he achieved a dynamic lighted display of full-size
satellite models, high-altitude aircraft, and other items.
Florentine received the 1987 Edwin F. Guth Memorial
Award from the International Illumination Engineering
Society and the 1986 Edison Award for lighting design
excellence from the General Electric Company.

In an effort to expedite the process of producing exhi-
bitry at the museum, the Advanced Projects Department
has been experimenting with “Autocad,” a computer-
aided design program. The computer-aided approach is
being used during design drafting, the most time-consum-
ing stage of the process. Results thus far have been
encouraging.

119
Public Events and Educational Programs

The museum offers a wide range of programs for the
education and entertainment of the public and for the
advancement of research and scholarship in the fields of
aviation and space science. For example, the monthly
Contemporary History Seminar, a regular NASM pro-
gram, fostered discussion among scholars studying mu-
seum-related subjects. A two-day conference sponsored
by the museum and NASA’s History Office featured for-
mal lectures and structured discussions on air and space
history, which will be published as a conference volume.

Events for the public included already well-established
programs and some novel additions. NASM’s Office of
Public Affairs and Museum Services, in cooperation with
the museum’s Office of Education, designed and pro-
moted a ten-week series of family nights. Held on Fri-
days, the “Fly-by-Night” program included lectures,
films, and a variety of other free activities. The public
affairs office also handled promotion of the new plane-
tarium show, “State of the Universe.” To nurture interest
in the show’s debut, the office sponsored a “Cosmic Cos-
tume Contest,” which attracted a large number of visi-
tors, many of them disguised as aliens, heavenly bodies,
and sky watchers.

“State of the Universe,” a fascinating dramatization of
how perceptions of the cosmos have changed with ever
more sophisticated observing techniques, added to the Al-
bert Einstein Planetarium’s string of successful shows.
The 1987 version of the annual lecture series Exploring
Space, cosponsored by The Perkin-Elmer Corporation,
complemented the new show. Five distinguished guest
lecturers discussed “New Perspectives on the Universe.”
Other programs held in the planetarium during the past
year included “Messages from the Universe,” a broad-
reaching symposium that commemorated the three-hun-
dredth anniversary of Isaac Newton’s Principia. In Febru-
ary, the facility’s staff, actor Arthur Peterson, and the
Federal Theater Project of George Mason University co-
produced “Abraham Lincoln: A Celebration of Free-
dom.” More than 330,000 visitors attended planetarium
shows in 1987, a Io percent increase over the previous
year.

The five IMAX® films previously commissioned by the
museum—On the Wing, The Dream Is Alive, To Fly!,
Living Planet, and Flyers—again played to full houses in
the Samuel P. Langley Theater. In its first eleven years,
the theater counted more than eighteen million paying
customers and boasted an enviable occupancy rate of 73
percent.

I20

Other offerings for the public included nine General
Electric Aviation Lectures; twelve Monthly Sky Lectures;
the annual Wernher von Braun Lecture, given by former
NASA administrator Thomas Paine; the annual Lind-
bergh Lecture, given by Lt. Gen. Benjamin O. Davis, the
U.S. Air Force’s first black general; nine aviation films;
and eight space fiction films. The museum staff also or-
ganized special programs for the Smithsonian National
Associates, including a four-day seminar on space history
held in Madison, Wisconsin.

“Wings and Things,” the annual open house at the mu-
seum’s Paul E. Garber Preservation, Restoration and
Storage Facility, attracted more than fifteen thousand vis-
itors who saw the more than one hundred air and space
vehicles housed in the facility’s five hangarlike buildings.
Also well attended were the forty-five holiday and sum-
mer concerts organized and promoted by the Office of
Public Affairs and Museum Services. To commemorate
the sixtieth anniversary of Charles Lindbergh’s transat-
lantic flight, the office organized “A Festival of American
Music,” which, appropriately, was held in the Milestones
of Flight Gallery, beneath the Spirit of St. Louis.

Several museum publications were cited for excellence
during the past year. “Exploring Space” won first place in
a competition sponsored by the National Association of
Government Communicators. The Society for Technical
Communication also recognized the “Exploring Space”
brochure, as well as the publication “Our Next 50 Years:
A Look at the U.S. Space Program” and the brochure for
the museum’s 1986 symposium “Viking on Mars.”

Publications and other services help ensure that visitors
get the most informational value out of their stops at the
museum. To aid international visitors, the museum offers
recorded tours in English, French, German, Japanese,
Spanish, and, as of 1987, Italian and Portuguese.

The NASM Office of Education was increased to four
full-time staff members; their efforts are aided by interns
from the George Washington University Museum Educa-
tion Program and the Smithsonian’s Stay in School Pro-
gram and by Behind-the-Scenes volunteers. The result has
been the initiation of several new projects and expansion
of the museum’s specialized programs for teachers.

The Office of Education organized eight workshops for
teachers, from kindergarten through senior high school.
In addition to discussing such topics as manned space-
flight and the planets, the workshops featured tours of
the museum’s collections and a variety of hands-on activi-
ties for use in the classroom.

These and other activities should benefit greatly from
the NASM Education Resource Center that is now in the
planning stages. The center will provide teachers with
access to instructional materials in science, space, and
aviation. NASA is participating in development of the
center.

Another means of extending the museum’s reach is an
informal network of regional contacts. With a grant from
the Institution’s Educational Outreach Fund, NASM
hosted twenty-nine participants in its Regional Resource
Program. Staff members acquainted the visitors, who
came from all sections of the United States, with the mu-
seum’s collections, exhibitions, and research. Participants
in the orientation program were given informational ma-
terials that they will use in presentations to groups in
their communities.

Air & Space/Smithsonian

Only in its second year, Air & Space/Smithsonian, the
bimonthly magazine for NASM Associates, has a circula-
tion of three hundred thousand, tops among periodicals
of its kind. High editorial quality and thorough surveil-
lance of international developments have established A:r
& Space as the authoritative source for interpretive aero-
space information.

The magazine’s first anniversary issue (April/May
1987) included the special insert “The Satellite Sky,” a
graphic compendium of all active artificial satellites for
which a function is known or surmised. Owing to de-
mand, the chart was reprinted on sturdy paper for use in
classrooms and professional settings. To keep the chart
current, the magazine regularly publishes satellite up-
dates, listing recent launches or spacecraft no longer in
active service. Insofar as is known, the service is the only
one of its kind in the world, and many accounts suggest
that it is the definitive authority in the field.

Air & Space/Smithsonian covers a wide range of cur-
rent and historical topics, and its scope extends far be-
yond the walls of the museum. During the past year, the
magazine published feature articles on a nonprofit air
service for environmental groups, the contributions of
science to the efforts of the National Transportation
Safety Board’s air accident investigation team, and a his-
torical profile of Eugen Sanger, Australian aviation pio-
neer, engineer, and scientist.

Editors and representatives of the magazine attended
numerous international conferences and meetings during
the year. Their reports on developments worldwide
guided editorial planning.

First-time renewal rates have been exceptionally high,
and advertising has remained strong. While only a small
fraction of total circulation, newsstand sales have been
encouraging.

Advice and other aid from the staff of Smithsonian
magazine have been instrumental in the success of Air &
Space/Smithsonian.
National Museum of
African Art

A year of moving thousands of artworks, installing gal-
leries, publishing exhibition catalogues, and preparing
programs for the public culminated with the opening of
the new National Museum of African Art on September
28, 1987. With 23,000 square feet of exhibition space—
five times more than at its old Capitol Hill site—the mu-
seum finally has the opportunity to display its growing
collection on a rotating basis to local, national, and inter-
national audiences. The elegant museum, capped by a
stunning dome-roofed pavilion is a fitting home not only
for the museum’s exquisite objects of art but also for its
nationally recognized research, educational, and archival
programs.

Exhibitions

Visitors to the new museum strolled through five distinct,
yet interrelated, galleries conceived by museum Director
Sylvia Williams and chief exhibition designer Richard
Franklin. In all, five inaugural exhibitions showcased
four hundred extraordinary examples of African art, each
one chosen in relation to the others in the galleries. “Afri-
can Art in the Cycle of Life,” a thematic presentation of
African sculpture, featured eighty-eight masterpieces of
African sculpture from public and private collections in
Europe and the United States. Roy Sieber, associate di-
rector for collections and research, and curator Roslyn A.
Walker organized the exhibition and wrote the compan-
ion publication. The exhibition was supported by an in-
demnity from the Federal Council on the Arts and
Humanities and a generous grant from the Morris and
Gwendolyn Cafritz Foundation, which also supported the
accompanying volume.

“Objects of Use” consisted of eighty-seven utilitarian
and primarily nonfigurative works of art drawn from
public and private collections in the United States and
from the museum’s permanent collection. “The Perma-
nent Collection of the National Museum of African Art”
introduced the major cultural and geographic regions of
sub-Saharan Africa through 114 works of art selected
from the museum collection and twenty-six objects on
loan. Both exhibitions were organized by Sylvia Williams
and assistant curator Andrea Nicolls.

“Royal Benin Art in the Collection of the National Mu-
seum of African Art” included twenty-one objects, span-
ning the fifteenth to the nineteenth centuries, from the
celebrated Kingdom of Benin (Nigeria). The majority of
objects were gifts of Joseph H. Hirshhorn to the Smith-
sonian and were transferred in 1985 from the Hirshhorn

I22

Among the notable acquisitions of the National Museum of
African Art this year was a contemporary vessel from Malawi.
(Photograph by Jeffrey Ploskonka)

Museum and Sculpture Garden. Assistant curator Bryna
Freyer organized the exhibition and wrote the catalogue.
The fifth exhibition, “Patterns of Life: West African
Strip-Weaving Traditions,” displayed thirty-six strip-wo-

ven cloths from a collection purchased by the museum
and the National Museum of Natural History. The exhi-
bition and catalogue were prepared by Peggy Stoltz Gil-
foy, curator of textiles and ethnographic art at the
Indianapolis Museum of Art.

To celebrate the inaugural exhibitions, several special
tours and receptions and a dinner were held at the mu-
seum in September. In addition, a reception honoring the
lenders of objects to the exhibitions was sponsored by the
Friends of the National Museum of African Art, a dedi-
cated organization that during the past year doubled its
membership to 190.
Acquisitions

The museum’s collection grew by forty-eight works of
art, including twenty-four that were given as gifts. Partic-
ularly noteworthy works of art included a figure carved
by the Songye people of Zaire, which was acquired with
a combination of donated and acquisition funds, and an-
other carved figure from the Akan people of Ghana, ac-
quired with the assistance of a grant from the James
Smithson Society. Gifts included two wooden figures
from the Bembe people of the Congo and the Kongo peo-
ple of Zaire; a kente wrapper composed of twenty-three
strips hand-woven by the Akan people of Ghana; a head-
rest from the Karamajong people of Kenya and eastern
Uganda; a mask from the Yaka people of Zaire; and a
collection of seven masquettes from the Sisala people of

Ghana.

Research and Education

A variety of programs—lectures, workshops, tours, and a
symposium-—were held in conjunction with the museum’s
opening. Two weeks before the opening, scholars from
Africa, Europe, and the United States gathered to discuss
the current state of African art studies at a symposium
supported by a grant from the Shell Companies
Foundation.

While the museum’s doors were closed to the public,
the Education Department was conducting outreach pro-
grams at schools and for community organizations. It
was also training seventy-five docents, who attended
sixty hours of workshops and lectures on African art,
history, and culture and on interpretive techniques. To
further its goal of introducing the American public to
African visual traditions, the department published The
Art of West African Kingdoms. The volume, made possi-
ble by a grant from the Shell Companies Foundation, is
geared toward teachers at the upper-elementary and sec-
ondary levels.

The museum’s Curatorial Department published three
exhibition catalogues, informational materials for each
exhibition, a gallery guide for the permanent collection,
and an audiovisual presentation for the exhibition on
West African strip-weaving traditions. The Public Affairs
Office prepared a general brochure about the museum
and an events calendar.

In addition to its collection, the museum offers two
excellent resources for staff and visiting researchers: the
Warren M. Robbins Library and the Eliot Elisofon Pho-

tographic Archives. Under the leadership of Janet Stan-
ley, the museum’s branch of the Smithsonian Institution
Libraries carried out a major three-year development pro-
gram, which was completed during the past year and in-
creased the collection to more than fifteen thousand
volumes. The photographic archives has grown tremen-
dously in recent years and now consists of more than
sixty collections comprising a total of approximately two
hundred thousand images, dating as far back as 1860.

In 1988, Dr. Herbert M. Cole, professor of art history
at the University of California at Santa Barbara, will be
in residence at the museum. Selected for a Rockefeller
Foundation Residency Fellowship in the Humanities, Dr.
Cole will be studying archetypes in African art, the sub-
ject of a proposed international exhibition and publica-
tion at the museum. In addition, a predoctoral fellowship
was awarded to Ebenezer Nii Quarcoopome, a graduate
fellow from the University of California at Los Angeles
who studied West African regalia and patterns of
leadership.

The museum’s in-house research and conservation
work will be strengthened by the new laboratory com-
pleted in spring 1987. Besides scientific examination and
general care of the collection, the facility and its equip-
ment will allow implementation of a long-range treat-
ment program for copper-alloy sculptures.

In February 1987, Philip L. Ravenhill was appointed
the museum’s chief curator. Ravenhill supervises the Cu-
ratorial Department, which organizes exhibitions, recom-
mends acquisitions, and conducts research on the
collection.
National Museum of
American Art

The National Museum of American Art (NMAA) contin-
ued to strengthen its programs of collecting, exhibiting,
studying, conserving, and interpreting American fine art
from its beginning to the present. In 1987, new emphasis
was placed on the role of the museum’s Renwick Gallery
in collecting, investigating, and exhibiting American
crafts and decorative arts.

Renwick Gallery

The future direction of the Renwick Gallery was clearly
decided after a visiting committee of curators, scholars,
and artists reaffirmed the gallery’s distinguished tradition
as a national showcase for American crafts. To enhance
the Renwick’s performance in this role, the committee,
appointed by the Smithsonian’s assistant secretary for
museums, recommended strengthening programs in re-
search, interpretation, and publication. These and other
recommendations were incorporated into a long-range
master plan for the gallery, which will continue its rela-
tionship as a curatorial department of NMAA.

As a result of the plan, the Renwick has been included
as a beneficiary of the Smithsonian’s Collections Acquisi-
tions Program, allowing the gallery to strengthen its
holdings of contemporary American crafts. In 1987, se-
lected items from this collection were exhibited for the
first time in a permanent installation on the second floor
of the gallery. Other objects from the collection will be
introduced into the exhibition on a rotating basis. More-
over, scholarly endeavors were bolstered by the establish-
ment of the James Renwick Fellowship Program for the
study of American crafts and craft history, with funding
generously provided by the James Renwick Alliance and
the American Craft Council.

The gallery articulated its mission through several suc-
cessful exhibitions. Perhaps the most significant was
“American Art Deco,” a comprehensive exhibition of
more than two hundred works that was complemented
by a major book on the subject published by Harry N.
Abrams, Inc., of New York. After closing at the Ren-
wick, the exhibition began a national tour to four other
museums. Other exhibitions at the Renwick in 1987 were
more specialized and included “Quilts from the Indiana
Amish” and “Dan Dailey: Glass, 1972-1987.”

Scholarly Activities

At the NMAA, scholarly activities included publication
of several works long in preparation. The product of ten

124

years of research and writing, the six-volume National
Museum of American Art’s Index to American Art Exhi-
bition Catalogues, from the Beginning through the 1876
Centennial Year was published by G. K. Hall & Co.,
Boston. The volumes contain a vast body of informa-
tion—where, what, and how often an artist exhibited;
artistic fashions and influences in particular geographic
locations; the provenance of specific artworks; patterns
of collecting; and prevailing attitudes toward religion,
history, mythology, and other subjects.

Another long-term project reached fruition when Ox-
ford University Press published the first issue of Smith-
sonian Studies in American Art, NMAA’s semiannual
scholarly journal. Articles addressed such diverse subjects
as the Vietnam Memorial, Thomas Hart Benton, Frederic
Church, and James Hampton’s Throne.

During the past year, NMAA welcomed its first Smith-
sonian Regents Fellow, Dr. Wanda Corn, Stanford Uni-
versity, who pursued work on American painting during
the 1920s. The museum also hosted its first Joshua C.
Taylor Fellow, Dr. Richard J. Wattenmaker, director of
the Flint Art Institute in Michigan, who conducted re-
search on William Glackens.

Exhibitions

The museum began the year with the exhibition “Modern
American Realism: The Sara Roby Foundation Collec-
tion,” a selection of paintings, graphics, and sculptures
from the foundation’s earlier gift of 174 artworks. The
exhibition’s accompanying catalogue was prepared by cu-
rator Virginia M. Mecklenburg and published by the
Smithsonian Institution Press. “Gene Davis, A Memorial
Exhibition,” organized by the museum and funded by
The Washington Post, commemorated the prominent
Washington painter and museum commissioner. A series
of “Play by Eye” workshops allowed children to create
their own striped arrangements a la Gene Davis, who
believed children are capable of making visually interest-
ing works. Curator Jacquelyn D. Serwer wrote the exhi-
bition catalogue, which was published by the Smith-
sonian Institution Press.

Eastman Johnson’s painting The Girl I Left Behind Me (ca.
1870-75) was among the works of art acquired by the National
Museum of American Art in 1987. Except for its exhibition at
the Chicago Industrial Exposition of 1875, this work remained
in the artist’s studio until his death in 1906.
“John La Farge,” organized in cooperation with the
Carnegie Museum of Art, was the first retrospective of
the innovative nineteenth-century artist in more than fifty
years. The 111 pieces in the exhibition, including to
stained-glass panels, represented La Farge’s work in all
media. A companion book featuring essays by six schol-
ars was published by the Abbeville Press. After closing at
NMAA, the exhibition will travel to Pittsburgh and Bos-
ton. Following a tour of five American cities, “Treasures
from the National Museum of American Art,” encom-
passing eighty-one of the most important works in the
collection, returned to NMAA for final installation. The
exhibition’s tour was underwritten by United Technolo-
gies Corporation.

Other temporary exhibitions at NMAA during the past
year included “James Rosenquist: Painting 1961-1985,”
for which the artist designed an outdoor billboard and
for which a wall, measuring 17 by 46 feet, was erected
for Rosenquist’s monumental painting Star Thief. “Amer-
ican Traditions in Watercolor: The Worcester Art Mu-
seum Collection” surveyed selected nineteenth- and
twentieth-century masterpieces from that museum’s re-
nowned collection.

Several exhibitions organized and previously shown by
NMAA continued to tour in 1987. These include “Art in
New Mexico, 1900-1945: Paths to Taos and Santa Fe”;
“Art, Design, and the Modern Corporation: The Collec-
tion of the Container Corporation of America”; “The
Woven and Graphic Art of Anni Albers”; and “Exposed
and Developed: Photography Sponsored by the National
Endowment for the Arts.” In addition, the museum lent
142 works from its collection to museums or other insti-
tutions in the United States and abroad.

Acquisitions

NMAA enhanced its permanent collection with several
major gifts and purchases. The Herbert Waide Hemphill,
Jr., collection of 378 American folk art objects, generally
acknowledged as one of the finest in private hands in the
United States, was acquired from Mr. Hemphill through
a joint purchase and gift. This treasury of eighteenth-,
nineteenth-, and twentieth-century works includes many
examples of quintessentially traditional folk art: weather
vanes, trade signs, whirligigs, limner portraits, decoys,
painted furniture, ceramics, and theorem paintings.
Sculptures, paintings, drawings, collages, and assem-
blages by twentieth-century self-taught artists are among
the other items in the collection. Acquisition of the Hemp-

126

_ ee
PY THE MAW WwHo PRESERVES
=| | THE Lone AND FORGOTTEN.

fs

The Reverend Howard Finster’s Portrait of Herbert Waide
Hemphill, Jr. was among the 378 folk art objects, dating from
the eighteenth century to the present day, acquired by the Na-
tional Museum of American Art. This collection was a museum
purchase and a major gift from Herbert Waide Hemphill, Jr.

hill material signals a significant new direction in the mu-
seum’s collecting activities.

Another significant addition was the gift by Patricia
and Phillip Frost of their collection of 113 paintings,
sculptures, collages, and constructions by American ab-
stract artists of the 1930s and 1940s. These carefully cho-
sen works are a valued addition to the museum’s rich
holdings of the works of both famous and lesser-known
artists of the period. The Frosts and Mr. Hemphill were
awarded the Smithson Society’s Founder’s Medal for their
contributions to the museum collections.

Among the 734 works received as gifts in 1987 was a
painting purchased by the American Art Forum, which
was founded in 1985 to support and enrich the museum’s
collections. As its first purchase for NMAA, the Art Fo-
rum selected John Valentine Haidt’s Young Moravian
Girl (ca. 1755-1760), the only portrait by this artist
known to exist outside the Moravian church. In May, the
Art Forum convened its second meeting, followed by a
special tour of the White House and tea with Mrs. Nancy
Reagan, as well as visits to local private collections.

In the area of nineteenth-century paintings, the mu-
seum filled a major gap in its collections with the pur-
chase of Eastman Johnson’s The Girl I Left Behind Me.
This enigmatic work of the 1870s remained in the artist’s
possession until his death in 1906. Other purchases in-
cluded paintings by Lee Krasner and Elliott Daingerfield
and important ceramic pieces by Rudolf Staffel, Rudy
Autio, and John Roloff.

In 1987, the museum was given approval to deacces-
sion 56 European paintings, 119 miniatures, a sculpture,
and 488 works on paper.

Collections Management

The museum also made significant progress in collections
management and in conservation work. In collaboration
with the Smithsonian’s Conservation Analytical Labora-
tory, the museum began a two-year technical study of the
works of Albert Pinkham Ryder to determine pigments,
techniques, and media used. The museum also refur-
bished its print study rooms and upgraded its storage fa-
cilities for works on paper, installing a state-of-the-art
compact system that allows 95 percent of the collection to
be consolidated into one secure area. Statisticians helped
develop a method for random sampling of NMAA’s
twenty-two thousand works on paper, resulting in the
museum’s first-ever overview of the Graphic Arts Depart-
ment’s conservation needs. Staff began to appraise the
condition of the sculpture collection in 1987; during the
first half of the year, fifty-five works were treated.

In other activities, NMAA continued to expand its se-
ries of brochures for self-guided tours. The informative
publications focus on topics of specialized interest within
the permanent collection. “Hispanic-American Art,”
printed in English and Spanish, allows visitors to dis-
cover and appreciate this art in the museum’s galleries at
their own pace.

National Museum of
American History

The National Museum of American History (NMAH) in-
vestigates, interprets, collects, preserves, exhibits, and
honors the heritage of the American people. The museum
preserves tangible pieces of history—tools, machines,
clothing, ceramics, photographs, and countless other ma-
terial specimens of bygone eras. The physical trappings
of yesterday, however, are just one part of the rich tapes-
try that is America’s past. The connective threads are the
nation’s music, drama, and oral heritage in their myriad
manifestations. Reconstructing these more ephemeral ele-
ments of the past is also an important part of the mu-
seum’s mission. The sum of its efforts is research,
exhibitions, publications, and public programs that con-
tribute to both scholarly understanding of American his-
tory and broad dissemination of knowledge.

The museum’s two major curatorial units—the Depart-
ment of the History of Science and Technology and the
Department of Social and Cultural History—consist of
seventeen divisions, ranging from community life to elec-
tricity and modern physics. NMAH also encompasses the
National Numismatic and Philatelic Collections, depart-
ments of public programs and exhibits, the Archives Cen-
ter, and offices of academic programs, administration,
conservation, external affairs, and the registrar. Almost
every exhibition relies in one way or another on the ef-
forts of staff in each of these units.

Exhibitions

NMAH began the year with its annual exhibition “The
Year in Pictures: As Seen from the National Museum of
American History,” which featured more than fifty pic-
tures of celebrations, demonstrations, and other events
around the nation’s capital as captured by Smithsonian
photographers.

“Engines of Change: The American Industrial Revolu-
tion, 1790-1860” opened in November as the museum’s
second reinstallation of its permanent exhibition halls.
The exhibition depicts the evolving industrial society of
the nineteenth century, when new machines, new sources
of power, and new ways of organizing work transformed
the United States from an agricultural nation into a man-
ufacturing power. Two companion publications—one
popularized, the other scholarly—build on the exhibition,
for which they were named. The in-depth, scholarly
treatment of the American Industrial Revolution was
written by curator Steven Lubar and senior historian
Brooke Hindle.

In February 1987, the museum opened a second major

I2

SI
exhibition, “Field to Factory: Afro-American Migration,
1915-1940.” It and an accompanying booklet by curator
Spencer Crew chronicled, in rich detail, the “Great Mi-
gration,” the movement of more than one million Afro-
Americans from the farms of the rural South to the cities
of the urban North. This mass movement profoundly af-
fected the lives of its participants and fundamentally re-
structured American society. A version of the exhibition
will travel to museums across the country.

Two fascinating exhibitions opened in March 1987.
“Beyond Vision,” on loan from the Science Museum of
London, featured some sixty historical scientific photo-
graphs and other images, including reproductions of Wil-
helm Roentgen’s first X-ray pictures and the first color
view of a fetus inside a mother’s womb. “Isaac Newton
and the Principia: Three hundred Years” commemorated
the 1687 publication of Newton’s Principia Mathematica
(Mathematical Principles of Natural Philosophy), a cor-
nerstone of modern physics and an important influence in
the study of chemistry, electricity, and magnetism.

During the summer, the museum again hosted “Dis-
cover Graphics,” an exhibition of etchings, lithographs,
and other prints by art students from high schools in the
Washington, D.C., area. “Superman: Many Lives, Many
Worlds,” which opened in June, traced the history of the
fifty-year-old superhero, as portrayed in comic books, a
newspaper comic strip, a television series, feature films, a
novel, and on Broadway. Opening in July, “Official Im-
ages: New Deal Photography” presented some eighty
photographs taken between 1933 and 1941 by government
photographers, including Dorothea Lange and Russell
Lee. The photographs document the constituencies and
policy objectives of five government agencies, rendering a
fresh look at the Roosevelt administration’s New Deal. A
book named for the exhibition was published by the
Smithsonian Institution Press and included contributions
from curator Peter Daniel of the museum’s Division of
Agriculture and Natural Resources.

At the close of the year, museum staff completed the
thought-provoking exhibition “A More Perfect Union:
Japanese Americans and the United States Constitution,”
which opened October 1. Designed to focus attention on
the Bicentennial of the Constitution, the exhibition ex-
plores a period when racial prejudice and fear upset the
delicate balance between the rights of citizens and the
power of the state and led to the internment of some
120,000 Japanese Americans for much of World War II.
A section also describes the valor of the men in the rooth
Battalion/442nd Regimental Combat Team, an all-Japa-
nese American unit of the U.S. Army. “A More Perfect

128

Union” is a case study of governmental decision making
and citizen action within the constitutional framework.

Research, Scholarship, and Collections

The research and collecting activities of curators and
other staff members lay the groundwork for the mu-
seum’s exhibitions and publications. Such activities are
broad ranging and often novel in their approach. For
each of the museum’s major units, some of the notable
developments in these areas during 1987 are highlighted
below.

The Department of Social and Cultural History contin-
ued its planning and preparations for reinstalling the ma-
jor exhibition halls in its purview. Under the direction of
Keith Melder of the Division of Political History, a team
of curators completed an outline for an exhibition on
nineteenth-century America, scheduled to open in 1990.
In September, the Division of Political History began dis-
mantling the First Ladies Hall, which has been on view
since 1964. The division is proceeding with plans for a
new exhibition on the same theme, which will open in
late 1991. Other efforts under way included a book and
1989 exhibition on “Men and Women: Dressing the
Part,” both primarily the work of the Division of Cos-
tume. Scheduled to open a year later is the exhibition
“Parlor to Politics: Women in the Progressive Era.”

In November 1986, the Department of Social and
Cultural History, in cooperation with the museum’s
Department of Public Programs, sponsored a two-day
conference on American labor history. Proceedings of the
conference, which was attended by labor historians,
union representatives, and others, were synthesized in a
“Radio Smithsonian” program and in a thirty-minute tele-
vision documentary, called “A Good Job” and produced
by the Labor Institute of Public Affairs. A volume of ed-
ited conference papers is forthcoming.

Although it is difficult to convey the full range of
scholarly interests pursued by the department’s divisions,
a sampling of lectures given by staff members during the
past year provides some indication of the diversity. At the
annual meeting of the Society for Historical Archaeology,
Regina Blaszczyk, Division of Ceramics and Glass, gave a
talk entitled “Coping with an Inferiority Complex: The
Movement for ‘Better Design’ in the American Tableware
Industry, 1915-1945.” Tom Crouch, chairman of the De-
partment of Social and Cultural History, presented two
lectures on “The Custer Legend” to the Harrison County
Historical Society in Ohio and spoke on the exhibition
=

SOLD

~WHITE & POLLARD

AN

This store in Oakland, California, was closed following the order that forced Japanese Americans out of their homes and into
detention camps at the beginning of World War II. The owner, a Japanese American graduate of the University of California, put up
the “I am an American” sign the day after the attack on Pearl Harbor. The photograph is featured in the exhibition “A More Perfect
Union: Japanese Americans and the United States Constitution” at the National Museum of American History. (Courtesy of the

National Archives. Photograph by Dorothea Lange)

“A More Perfect Union” at the Japanese American Citi-
zens League Tri-District Conference in Los Angeles. John
Hasse, Division of Musical Instruments, spoke on “Indi-
anapolis as a Leading Ragtime Center” at the Scott Joplin
Festival in Sedalia, Missouri. Also during the past year,
an essay by Gary Kulik, former department head and
now assistant director for academic programs, was pub-
lished in The Countryside in the Age of Capitalist Trans-

formation, which won the E. Harold Hugo—Old

Sturbridge Village Memorial Book Award for its contri-
bution to New England rural history.

The Department of Social and Cultural History made
several important acquisitions in 1987. These included
fifty-one examples of seventeenth- and eighteenth-century
English ceramics; a gown owned by Martha Washington;
many objects that belonged to Alice Paul, author of the

129
Equal Rights Amendment and founder of the National
Woman’s Party; three pioneer typesetting machines de-
signed by Ottmar Mergenthaler; a silver-tipped baton
used by John Philip Sousa; and an original movie script
for The Wizard of Oz.

In the Department of the History of Science and Tech-
nology, a new curatorial unit was created to spearhead
work on a major upcoming exhibition on the information
revolution. One of the first acts of the Division of Com-
puters, Information, and Society was to enter into a pre-
cedent-setting agreement with Boston’s Computer
Museum. The two will collaborate on collections of com-
puter artifacts, prepare a unified list of artifacts, and
share expertise in exhibitions. To aid in exhibition plan-
ning and development, the division’s curators organized
several scholarly conferences that gathered experts in eco-
nomics, philosophy, engineering, history, and business.

Research conducted in the divisions of the Department
of the History of Science and Technology led to several
publications and many scholarly articles published during
the past year. NMAH issued the Catalog of Geomagnetic
Instruments in the Collection of the National Museum of
American History by senior historian Robert Multhauf
and Gregory Good, an assistant professor in the Program
for the History of Science and Technology at West Vir-
ginia University. Also published last year was The Finest
Instruments Ever Made: A Bibliography of Medical, Den-
tal, Optical, and Pharmaceutical Company Trade Litera-
ture, 1700-1939 by Audrey B. Davis and Mark Dreyfuss,
Division of Medical Sciences. Barbara Melosh, also of
the Division of Medical Sciences, received a Regents Pub-
lication Award to further her study of gender issues in
New Deal art and theater programs. In addition, the de-
partment continues to support the publication of three
journals on the history of technology: a new periodical,
Rittenhouse: The Quarterly Journal of the American Sci-
entific Instrument Enterprise; Technology and Culture;
and Railroad History.

Acquisitions by the Department of the History of Sci-
ence and Technology are notable for their variety, histor-
ical significance, and novelty. They included a Jarvik-7
artificial heart, important collections of early electronic
watches, a collection of Pullman porter artifacts, the
complete wardrobe of a female officer in the U.S. Air
Force, and a collection of solid-state electronics repre-
senting the contributions of Texas Instruments from the
transistor era to the present day. “A Material World,” a
major exhibition opening in April 1988, will focus on the
changing role of materials in American culture. Two ac-

130

quisitions in 1987 hint at the wide-ranging nature of the
exhibition—the top-fuel dragster Swamp Rat XXX and a
ro-ton “Universal Testing Machine,” which was shown at
the 1893 World’s Columbian Exposition and was ac-
quired from Purdue University.

The National Philatelic Collection continued to expand
its holdings of three-dimensional objects that portray the
movement of the mail and the role of postal service in the
development of transportation and communication.
Among the acquisitions of the past year was a 1904
screened, horse-drawn mail wagon. Moreover, the collec-
tion’s staff raised funds to support the continuing restora-
tion of the bus that served as the nation’s first Highway
Post Office. Donated to the Smithsonian some years ago,
the bus was the first in a fleet used across the country
from 1941 to 1974.

The National Philatelic Library, the largest of its kind,
began to computerize its reference collection of books,
monographs, serials, articles, and photographs. Directed
by librarian Nancy Pope, the project is using the Smith-
sonian Institution Bibliographic Information System for
information and retrieval. Curator James H. Bruns or-
ganized a very successful series of public programs called
“Mail in Motion,” which detailed the history of postal
delivery in American cities, and curator Reider Norby
began assembling the library’s master collection of for-
eign postage stamps. Accessions in 1987 totaled sixty-five
thousand objects, including a one-dollar postage stamp
with an inverted candleholder, of which fewer than one
hundred examples are known.

Staff members of the National Numismatic Collec-
tion—a large holding of coins, paper currencies, and
medals—again were active in international affairs within
their field, as well as in research, publishing, and exhibi-
tion-related work. Elvira Clain-Stefanelli, Richard Doty,
and Cory Gillilland presented papers at the Tenth Inter-
national Numismatic Congress, which was held in Lon-
don and organized by the International Numismatic
Commission of London and Basel. The commission
named Mrs. Clain-Stefanelli an honorary member, and
Dr. Doty was elected member étranger (foreign member)
of the Société Royal de Numismatique de Belgique. Mrs.
Clain-Stefanelli also received a silver medal for “excel-
lence in numismatic research and writing” from the Soci-
ety of International Numismatics, and Mrs. Gillilland
was made a fellow of the American Numismatic Society.
The collection’s staff members wrote eighteen articles and
produced three traveling exhibitions in 1987.

Major accessions included a group of exceedingly rare
territorial gold and silver bars and coins; a plaster model
for the obverse and reverse of the 1912 buffalo nickel by
James E. Fraser; a very rare silver denarius portraying
Caius Caesar, a son of Agrippa selected by Augustus to
be his successor (20 B.C. to A.D. 3); and a document re-
lated to George Washington’s first medals, which was
written by James Manley in 1791 and signed by Governor
George Clinton and the Marquis de Lafayette.

The Archives Center continued to be a busy research
facility, serving nearly one thousand visitors and respond-
ing to more than four hundred written and telephone in-
quiries. With the aid of grants from Philip Morris and
Miles Laboratories, the center documented the history of
the advertising campaigns for Marlboro cigarettes and
Alka-Seltzer. Images from the center’s extraordinary his-
torical collection of advertisements will be made available
as commercial reproductions as a result of an arrange-
ment with the Smithsonian Office of Product Develop-
ment and Licensing.

In 1987, the Archives Center published guides for the
William J. Hammer collection of documents and articles
related to the history of electricity and the Carlos de
Wendler-Funaro collection of research materials on Gyp-
sies. Major additions to the archival holdings included an
outstanding collection of photographs and ephemera of
brass bands and a fine set of two hundred documentary
photographs of Pittsburgh’s Afro-American community in
the 1940s.

An office for coordinating the museum’s existing rela-
tionships with colleges and universities and for cultivating
new ties was established in August 1987. The staff of the
Office of Academic Programs consists of Gary Kulik,
newly named assistant director for academic programs,
and Dorothy Jacobs, management services assistant.
Even as the office was being formed, the museum and
three area universities combined their efforts to lure the
American Studies Association, publisher of American
Ouarterly, to the Washington, D.C., area. In a separate
action, the museum and the Department of History at
American University agreed on the two-year appointment
of a historian to be shared by both institutions.

Grants from the Women’s Committee of the Smithson-
ian Associates, the Educational Outreach Program, and
the Atherton Seidell Endowment Fund enabled the mu-
seum to launch its new American Indian Program. In
1987, the program inaugurated a lecture and performance
series. A special outreach effort brought more than five
hundred local American Indians to early programs in the
series, such as “Traditional Dance and Song of the Sen-

The Howe pin-making machine, the model its inventor submit-
ted to the U.S. Patent Office, and its product, a package of
pins. Displayed by the National Museum of American History
in its exhibition “Engines of Change: The American Industrial
Revolution, 1790-1860,” it is one of the oldest surviving opera-
ble pieces of production machinery. (Photograph by Eric Long)

eca.” The program also sponsored several educational ac-
tivities and published instructional materials.

The museum’s Afro-American Communities Project,
which studies antebellum life among free black communi-
ties in the urban North, continued to expand its hold-
ings, adding new data from the Black Abolitionist Papers
microfilm, a rich source of information on antebellum
blacks. During the year, members of the project pre-
sented lectures at the Center of the Child at Yale Univer-
sity, the University of Maryland, the University of North
Carolina, and New York City’s Frances Tavern.

Also during the past year, eighty-three history-museum
leaders gathered at a NMAH-organized conference to dis-
cuss common needs and problems. The participants pro-
posed measures on criteria for collecting artifacts,
exchanging information on collections, increasing ties be-
tween academic and museum historians, and improving
collaboration between history museums and other organi-
zations. The American Association for State and Local
History will publish the proceedings.

The museum also continued to collect, transcribe, and
organize the papers of American architect Robert Mills, de-
signer of the Washington Monument. The papers, along
with a comprehensive index, will be published in 1988.
Public Programs

The activities of the Department of Public Programs in-
crease the educational value of exhibitions and bring the
museum’s services and expertise to the nation’s schools.
In 1987, the department’s Division of Education com-
pleted a five-year master plan that calls for developing
interpretive stations, staffed by volunteers, in each major
exhibition area. One such station was opened at the “En-
gines of Change” exhibition. Other elements of the plan
include a program for evaluating exhibitions and audi-
ence reactions and perceptions and an outreach project
that will entail developing and producing supplementary
curriculum materials for nationwide distribution. The de-
partment has already started work on three curriculum
kits, based on the exhibitions “Field to Factory,” “En-
gines of Changes,” and “After the Revolution.”

Programs developed by the Performance Division
added important artistic and cultural dimensions to the
major exhibition “After the Revolution: Everyday Life in
America, 1780-1800.” The series “American Sampler:
Musical Life in America, 1780-1800” featured prominent
performers whose presentations realistically demonstrated
the vital role of dance and music in the lives of European
settlers, African Americans, and Native Americans. As
part of the series, a program on Richard Allen, one of the
founders of the African Methodist Episcopal Church,
traveled to several black churches and community cen-
ters. Also in conjunction with “After the Revolution,” the
museum’s Program in Black American Culture organized
a conference on “Race and Revolution: African Ameri-
cans 1770-1830.” Twenty-six specialists in Afro-American
studies probed issues raised in the exhibition.

The Department of Public Programs is overseeing the
museum’s Columbus Quincentenary programs, with
Lonn Taylor, assistant director for public programs, serv-
ing as coordinator. A planning group began work on a
major permanent exhibition, “America’s Beginnings,”
which will open in 1992, and on a series of public forums
that will lead up to and then complement the exhibition.
The first forum, “After Columbus: Encounters in North
America,” was held in September 1986. An especially ap-
propriate participant in the development of Quincenten-
ary activities is the newly formed Program in Hispanic
American History. The program was established to pro-
duce a series of educational activities to illuminate the
role of Hispanic culture in shaping American history.

Rounding out the department’s activities in 1987 were a
variety of well-established programs, such as the Cham-
ber Music Series, Jazz in the Palm Court, Palm Court

132

Cameos, Bandstand Concerts, and America on Film.
These programs continued to attract large, enthusiastic
audiences.

Behind the Scenes

In any museum, offices seldom in the public view per-
form invaluable, painstaking work that is absolutely es-
sential to the museum’s exhibitions and programs.
NMAH’s Office of the Registrar, for example, supported
the processing and receipt of twenty-four thousand new
accessions and more than twenty-two hundred loans for
special exhibitions at the museum. In addition, the office
tracked the eleven hundred objects that NMAH loaned to
other museums and institutions in 1987. To support col-
lections management, general information retrieval, and
scholarly research, the office and the curatorial divisions
developed the Museum Information Retrieval and Docu-
mentation System (MIRDS). Completed last year, the
MIRDS handbook culminated a fifteen-year effort.

The Office of the Registrar continued its analysis of
space needs in accordance with the museum’s long-term
plans for reinstalling exhibitions and renovating the
building. At the museum’s storage complex in Silver Hill,
Maryland, work progressed in the asbestos-removal pro-
ject, as well as in rehousing and conserving objects and in
renovating the 16,000-square-foot facility to create a safe
environment for sensitive NMAH collections. Integrated
into these varied activities are specialized training activi-
ties—internships, workshops, tours, and individual con-
sultations—for students and museum professionals. Six
high school students from Washington, D.C., partici-
pated in a special youth employment program designed
to introduce them to museum work. Finally, registrar
Martha Morris led a workshop in Port of Spain, Trini-
dad, on the care of collections, and assistant registrar
Katherine Speiss lectured and led workshops in the
United States and abroad.

The Division of Conservation surveyed more than fif-
teen hundred objects in the collections and treated about
four hundred in support of exhibitions and loans. Sur-
veys conducted over the last several years have classified
some four hundred thousand artifacts in the museum’s
collections as high priority for treatment. Textiles and
costumes received special attention in 1987. Surveys of
flags, uniforms, and other textile collections documented
conservation needs that exceed present resources. This
disparity raised concerns among members of a visiting
team of conservators, who recommended conservation-
directed improvements in exhibits and gave high priority
to measures for preserving the gowns in the First Ladies
Hall. To address this important need, the museum plans
to build a laboratory for treating and safeguarding the
gowns and the more than forty thousand costumes, tex-
tiles, and fragile organic artifacts in other collections.

In 1987, Scott Odell, head conservator, taught a one-
week course on the care and conservation of folk art
and crafts collections at the Museo Nacional de Artes e
Industrias Populares in Mexico City, and he was elected
president of the Washington Conservation Guild. Ann
Craddock, paper conservator, spoke on safe materials for
exhibits and storage cases at the annual meeting of the
American Association of Museums. Deputy head conser-
vator Martin Burke helped the Minnesota Historical Soci-
ety evaluate its collections.

The NMAH Computer Services Center concentrated
on expanding the museum’s central computer system to
support collections, communications to other Institution
bureaus and to outside organizations, word processing,
electronic mail, and other administrative applications.
Following the addition of a second minicomputer to its
system, the museum made its first efforts in electronic
publishing. Software for computer-aided design was in-
troduced to evaluate its usefulness in exhibition design,
conservation, building renovation, and design of storage
areas. Program staff developed software to support the
Afro-American Index Project, philately collections, textile
collections, the Chamber Music Program, and a variety
of other programs and activities.

Staff Changes and Appointments

Tom Crouch was named chairman of the Department of
Social and Cultural History, succeeding Gary Kulik, who
was appointed assistant director for academic programs.
The museum’s new Program in Hispanic American His-
tory is directed by Luz Maria Prieto, who succeeded Pau-
line Nunez-Morales. Elizabeth Sharpe was appointed
deputy assistant director for public programs.

National Museum of
Natural History / National
Museum of Man

A fossil preparator at the National Museum of Natural History
chips away at a rock filled with dinosaur bones. (Photograph by
Doc Dougherty)

The National Museum of Natural History/ National
Museum of Man houses the largest and most valuable
natural history and anthropological collections in the
world—more than 118 million specimens of plants, ani-
mals, fossils, rocks, minerals, and human cultural arti-
facts. At the disposal of the nation’s scientific
community, these vast, extensively documented holdings
support research on virtually all aspects of the natural
world. In 1987, more than two thousand visiting scholars
from all over the world used the museum’s collections.
To acquire new information and specimens for ongo-
ing research projects, the museum’s 173 scientists and 125
resident research associates conduct research all over the
globe. In 1987, approximately eight hundred thousand
specimens were added to the collections by these expedi-
tions, as well as by gifts, purchases, and deposits by
affiliated federal agencies (the U.S Department of Agri-

133
culture, the National Marine Fisheries Service, the U-S.
Fish and Wildlife Service, the National Institutes of
Health, and the U.S. Geological Survey).

The museum shares the results of its research through
exhibitions, educational programs, and the nearly five
hundred books, scientific papers, and articles published
annually by its staff. In addition, staff-organized sympo-
sia and workshops foster the exchange of knowledge
among researchers. The museum’s exhibitions and com-
plementing public programs, designed to encourage un-
derstanding, appreciation, and enjoyment of the natural
world, attracted more than eight million visitors in 1987,
a record-breaking year.

Highlights of the museum’s research, management, and
educational activities are described below.

Management Study

In March 1987, after an intensive, six-month study of the
museum, McKinsey & Company, Inc., submitted a re-
port analyzing the museum’s strengths, weaknesses and
organizational effectiveness. The report, A Management
Agenda, recommended changes in strategic planning, de-
velopment, communication, and organization. The man-
agement firm’s recommendations are being used to help
define the museum’s goals for the next decade and to
establish a management plan to accomplish these goals.
Museum Director Robert S$. Hoffmann appointed eleven
task forces to develop specific recommendations for im-
plementing the report’s findings, including the establish-
ment of a development office and a national advisory

board.

Inventorying Tropical Biodiversity

Amazonia is the most biologically diverse area on Earth.
But this ecological treasure is diminishing, threatened on
all sides by human encroachment. Scientists and conser-
vationists fear that vast numbers of plant and animal spe-
cies will be destroyed before researchers can even identify
them, let alone study them for their potential value to
humanity.

In 1987, the museum began a systematic inventory of
the rich crescent of tropical and subtropical plant and
animal life in the western and northern reaches of Ama-
zonia, from the flanks of the Andes to the Guianas. A
multidisciplinary team of Smithsonian scientists and their
host-country colleagues are focusing initial efforts in the

134

Biodiversity Program on two large expanses of virgin
subtropical Amazonian forest—the Beni Biosphere Re-
serve, Bolivia, and the Manu Reserved Zone, Peru. The
biodiversity project is supported by funds from the U.S.
Congress and by grants from the U.S. Agency for Inter-
national Development, the World Heritage Program, and
the Man and Biosphere Program of the United Nations
Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organization.

Led by museum entomologist Terry Erwin and project
manager Francisco Gomez-Dallmeir, the biotic inventory
is expected to identify thousands of yet-to-be-discovered
insect species, hundreds of new plant species, and dozens
of still-unknown animal species. This accounting of Ama-
zonia’s flora and fauna is likely to yield new sources
of food, biological control agents, and germplasm
resources.

Over the next decade, the museum plans to initiate
similar inventory projects in several other locations in
Amazonia, including sites in Ecuador, Colombia, and
Venezuela. As the program expands, hundreds of stu-
dents and young professionals will receive scientific
training in conjunction with inventories in their own
countries.

Two other long-standing museum projects in Latin
America complement the Biodiversity Program. In one,
the museum and five other sponsoring organizations are
engaged in a multinational effort to analyze the plant life
of Surinam, Guyana, and French Guiana—a region of
tropical America that has received little botanical atten-
tion. Under the direction of botanist Laurence Skog,
more than a dozen museum scientists are participating
in the project, which also involves scientists from the
Guianas, the Berlin Botanical Garden, the Musée Na-
tional d’Histoire Naturelle in Paris, the University of
Utrecht in the Netherlands, and the French research
agencies in French Guiana. One of the project’s aims is to
determine which areas in the Guianas merit protection on
the basis of their biotic diversity.

In the other Latin American research project, museum
scientists are studying biotic diversity in Brazil’s Atlantic
forests and in its tropical lowlands of the Amazon basin.
Over the past decade, the researchers have been deter-
mining what plant and animal species inhabit the regions,
as well as the origin, distribution, and relationships of
these species. The studies are being coordinated with ar-
chaeological investigations of early human culture in
Amazonia. In connection with these efforts, the Smith-
sonian and the Brazil Academy of Sciences organized a
workshop on “Neotropical Biotic Distribution Patterns,”
which was held in Rio de Janeiro in January 1987. Mu-
seum scientists who presented papers at the workshop
were Erwin, anthropologist Betty Meggers, and zoolo-
gists Richard Vari, W. Ronald Heyer, Stanley Weitzman,
and Marilyn Weitzman.

American Indian Outreach Program

Anthropologist JoAllyn Archambault joined the Depart-
ment of Anthropology in 1987 as director of the mu-
seum’s activities in the new interbureau Native American
Program. This program is designed to make Smithsonian
resources more accessible to Native Americans and to in-
crease their involvement in the Institution’s programs,
particularly those related to Native American history and
culture. As one of her first outreach projects, Archam-
bault organized an exhibition that explored the relation-
ships between nineteenth- and twentieth-century Plains
Indian art.

New Ethnographic Series

Museum anthropologists William L. Merrill and Ivan
Karp have begun a new Smithsonian Institution Press se-
ries devoted to publishing analyses of societies through-
out the world. By the end of 1987, seven works were
published in the series. Upcoming publications will in-
clude a treatise by Merrill on knowledge and social proc-
esses among the Raramuri Indians of northern Mexico.
The Press also will publish a collection of essays, edited
by Karp, on African concepts of power and authority and
the manifestation of these concepts in rituals, cosmology,
and cults.

In related endeavors, museum ethnologist Mary Jo
Arnoldi studied the role that drama plays in shaping the
identities of youths in Mali’s community of Bamana peo-
ple. As part of her research, Arnoldi is documenting the
changes that Mali youth drama has undergone in both
form and content over the last century. Her examination
of the characters in the dramas of the colonial and post-
colonial eras has identified key issues of past and present
generations.

Exploring a Unique Atoll
Remote and uninhabited Henderson Island, a day’s voy-

age away from Pitcairn Island of Mutiny on the Bounty
fame, is the only elevated South Pacific atoll that remains

eT
senisttny
wr

National Museum of Natural History Director Robert S. Hoff-
mann and Assistant Director Stanwyn Shetler presenting car-
toonist Gary Larson with the museum poster for the Larson
exhibition.

essentially undisturbed by humans. Surrounded by verti-
cal and undercut cliffs and supporting a nearly impene-
trable forest, the small atoll has been visited by only a
handful of scientists.

In April 1987, a Smithsonian-sponsored expedition
conducted a nine-day reconnaissance of Henderson Is-
land. The visit was a particularly timely one. Pressure to
develop the atoll is increasing, adding urgency to calls to
protect the tiny land mass as an “Island for Science.” The
Smithsonian team, which included museum entomologist
Wayne Mathis and museum ornithologist Gary Graves,
conducted the first survey of the island’s unique flora and
fauna. The researchers gathered the preliminary data
needed to formulate a proposal for a full-scale ecological
survey to document the case for the atoll’s preservation in
its undisturbed condition.

Museum staff members were involved in several other
international expeditions in 1987. In March, the museum
mounted its fifth research mission to Aldabra Island, an
atoll in the Western Indian Ocean. Studies were con-
ducted by zoologists Brian Kensley and Kristian Fauchald
and museum specialists Marilyn Schotte and Janice
Clark. Before the expedition, an international workshop
was held at the museum to update scientists and conser-
vationists on the museum’s work on the island, which is
a sanctuary for unique plant and animal species, includ-
ing the only surviving colony of the Indian Ocean giant
tortoise.

On the coast of central Labrador in eastern Canada, a
museum archaeological survey led last June by anthropol-
ogist William Fitzhugh discovered Eskimo and Indian
sites occupied at various times between eight thousand
and two hundred years ago. Studies of these sites are
expected to shed new light on the complex cultural his-
tory of this northern maritime region.

In February and March, botanist Robert W. Read con-
ducted field studies in the Hawaiian Islands to determine
the status of several endangered species of the palm genus
Pritchardia. Of the eighteen species believed endemic to
the islands, Read found two in immediate danger of ex-
tinction in the wild. He determined that the greatest
threat to the survival of most of the endemic palm species
is the destruction of seeds and seedlings by rats and pigs.

Museum Director Robert S$. Hoffmann, who in August
was appointed assistant secretary for research, effective
January 3, 1988, and research associate Dr. Richard M.
Mitchell participated in a United States—Chinese survey
of mammals and birds of the Tibetan Plateau. The expe-
dition, a cooperative venture involving the museum, the
Chinese Academy of Sciences, and the American Ecology
Institute, was focused on a remote region that has been
explored scientifically only once—at the turn of this cen-
tury. Among the highlights of the survey was Dr. Hoff-
mann’s rediscovery of a rare species of shrew, known
previously from a single documented specimen.

In Kenya, physical anthropologist Richard Potts con-
tinued excavations at the 700,000-year-old Olorgesailie
Lake basin. The area has yielded numerous stone tools
and animal bones, which some anthropologists believe
are markers of hominid “home bases.” Potts excavated
the skeleton of a now-extinct form of elephant. Nearby
stone axes suggested that the skeleton was found at the
site where the elephant was butchered.

Catastrophic Extinctions Investigated

Concern over the potential for a massive decline in biotic
diversity wrought by tropical deforestation has prompted
scientists to study how terrestrial ecosystems have re-
sponded to catastrophic changes in the past. The mu-
seum’s newly organized Evolution of Terrestrial
Ecosystems Program—coordinated by paleoanthropolo-
gist Richard Potts and paleobiologists Anna K. Behrens-
meyer, John D. Damuth, William A. Dimichele, and

136

Scott L. Wing—is addressing this question by gathering
data on the disruption and continuity of ecosystems from
four hundred million years ago to the present. As a first
step toward assessing current understanding of ancient
terrestrial ecosystems, the museum convened an interna-
tional conference in May 1987. Thirty-five paleoecolo-
gists from the United States, Canada, England, and West
Germany participated in the meeting, the first ever de-
voted to this subject. The data assembled by this long-
term program will add a much-needed historical perspec-
tive to the museum’s ongoing biodiversity studies.

Punctuated-Equilibrium Model of Evolution

Past studies of rates of evolution focused on changes in
single morphologic characters, such as body size, or on
tracing the persistence of species through geologic time.
Today, thanks to the combination of computers and mul-
tivariate statistical techniques, numerous characters can
be evaluated simultaneously to assess evolutionary
changes in overall structure and form of organisms.
Museum paleobiologist Alan H. Cheetham is using this
powerful combination of tools to study evolutionary pat-
terns in bryozoans that lived in the Caribbean region dur-
ing the Miocene and Pliocene epochs, seven million to
thirty-eight million years ago. He examined fossils of the
small aquatic animals in closely spaced strata, averaging
about 150,000 years apart over an interval of about 4.5
million years. Cheetham found that within each of the
nine species of the bryozoan genus Metrarabdotos,
changes in overall morphology were too slow and too
discontinuous to account for the emergence of distinct
species. The results of Cheetham’s study provide addi-
tional evidence in support of the punctuated-equilibrium
model of evolution, which holds that periods of geologi-
cal history are marked by events that induced rapid evo-
lutionary change and the emergence of new species,
followed by other long periods of little or no change.

Volcano Studies

To commemorate the seventy-fifth anniversary of the Ha-
waiian Volcano Observatory, the museum republished
the complete series of The Volcano Letter, a historic,
hard-to-find reference published by the observatory from
1925 to 1955. The fifteen-hundred-page volume contains
definitive reports on many Hawaiian eruptions and vol-
‘ yt ,

\ A Wl ay
Bull Moose, a painting by Robert Bateman, was exhibited at the National Museum of Natural History along with numerous other
works by the artist.

canic activity around the world over the the thirty-year
life of the letter.

In 1987, museum studies of volcanic phenomena in-
cluded an ongoing investigation of how debris ejected by
a submarine volcano sinks to the sea floor. Museum vol-
canologist Dr. Richard Fiske and his colleagues from the
University of Tokyo and Princeton University are con-
ducting the study.

To test his theory of how particles erupting from sub-
marine volcanoes settle, Fiske designed a 30-foot-long,
scuba-operated settling tube with trays at the bottom.
Preliminary experiments conducted with this apparatus at
the Smithsonian Marine Station at Link Port, in Fort
Pierce, Florida, confirmed Fiske’s theory—particles falling

Ah
ie }
iY a

to the sea floor tend to be partitioned into deposits of
telltale texture containing dense rock fragments that are
only about one-tenth the size of the associated low-den-
sity pumice. Ongoing field research in Japan is also prov-
ing that submarine rocks with such characteristic textures
are common in the geologic record.

Quincentenary Activities

Distinguished scientists from the United States and Can-
ada debated the issues and controversies arising from
questions concerning the first human occupation of the
Americas. The occasion for the debate was the public
symposium “Americans before Columbus: Ice Age Ori-
gins,” organized by the museum and the Smithsonian In-
ternational Center. The September symposium was the
first of six Quincentenary symposia to be held through
1992 to promote scholarly and public understanding of
significant issues related to Columbus’s first voyage to the
Americas. In conjunction with the program, the museum
featured a special exhibit on the work of museum anthro-
pologist Dennis Stanford, who is investigating the ori-
gins, spread, and development of early humans in the
New World.

In addition to the symposia, the museum’s Quincenten-
ary activities, coordinated by museum historian Herman
Viola, director of Quincentenary Programs, will include
“Seeds of Change,” a major exhibition scheduled to open
in 1991.

Collections Management

The museum continued to give high priority to develop-
ing a fully automated Collections Information System. In
1987, a prototype system was set up in the museum’s Fish
Division. The result is more efficient use of the division’s
collections, aiding scholarly research and increasing the
ability of managers to maintain accountability over
collections.

National Cancer Institute Agreement

As a result of a 1987 agreement with the National Cancer
Institute (NCI), the Smithsonian Oceanographic Sorting
Center, which is administered by the museum, will house
and curate a voucher collection of nearly ten thousand
marine plant, invertebrate, and fish specimens. Dupli-
cates of those being tested by NCI for anticancer sub-
stances, the specimens will be housed in the sorting
center’s collection at the Smithsonian’s Museum Support
Center. They will be available for study by scientists
from the museum and other institutions.

Plans for Marine Station Laboratory

A long-term lease agreement was signed in June 1987 by
Seward Johnson, Jr., chairman of the board and presi-
dent of the Harbor Branch Oceanographic Institution,
Inc., and Smithsonian Secretary Robert Adams. Leasing
of the 1.2-acre plot clears the way for museum plans to

138

seek private funds to support construction of a new labo-
ratory at the Smithsonian Marine Station at Link Port in
Fort Pierce, Florida. The new building, which will in-
clude living quarters for scientists and will be built en-
tirely with contributions from private donors, is badly
needed and will increase the range of studies undertaken
at the facility.

Exhibitions

“Portraits of Nature: Paintings by Robert Bateman” (Jan-
uary 17—May 17) led off the museum’s 1987 special exhi-
bition schedule. This major retrospective of works by the
Canadian painter, regarded as one of the world’s fore-
most wildlife artists, featured more than one hundred
paintings that celebrate nature’s diversity. Many had
never been exhibited in the United States. Organized by
the museum, the exhibition drew more than 275,000 visi-
tors to the Thomas M. Evans Gallery during its four-
month run and was a major factor in the museum’s rec-
ord-breaking attendance in 1987.

In conjunction with the Bateman exhibition, the Smith-
sonian Institution Press published Portraits of Nature:
Paintings by Robert Bateman, by museum botanist and
assistant director Stanwyn Shetler. Illustrated with many
of the works that appeared in the exhibition, the book
interprets Bateman’s paintings from the perspective of a
naturalist and explains why his work has become a pow-
erful influence on the worldwide conservation movement.

“Ebla to Damascus: Art and Archaeology of Ancient
Syria,” a major exhibition organized by the Smithsonian
Institution Traveling Exhibition Service in cooperation
with the Syrian Directorate of Antiquities, opened on
July ro in the Thomas M. Evans Gallery for a five-month
run. On display were 281 statues, inscriptions, mosaics,
jewelry, and other artifacts uncovered by recent archaeo-
logical research. The objects demonstrate the cultural sig-
nificance of the region that comprises present-day Syria
and shed light on the region’s influence on the develop-
ment of Western civilization.

“American Bird Sculpture: Decoys to Decoratives”
(January 29—April 30) traced the development of a dis-
tinctive North American art form, featuring one hundred
bird carvings from the North American Wildfowl Art
Museum of the Ward Foundation in Salisbury, Mary-
land. During the exhibition, award-winning decoy carv-
ers from Maryland and Virginia gave demonstrations of
their craft.

“The Far Side of Science” (April 9—May 31) displayed
five hundred of Gary Larson’s best “Far Side” newspaper
cartoons. Poking fun at a wide range of natural history
topics—from evolution to prehistoric man—these works
offered hilarious and insightful twists on both human be-
havior and the human view of the natural world.

Preparing dinosaurs for museum display has been a
Smithsonian specialty for nearly a century. In 1987, the
museum opened an exhibition that, for the first time,
shows the public how the ancient animals are assembled
from fossilized remains. Through a window, technicians
in a laboratory can be seen chipping away a Io-ton slab
of rock that contains the bones of Coelophysis, a small
220-million-year-old dinosaur. Over the next two years,
a complete skeleton of the two-legged reptile with a bird-
like skull will be removed from the block of New Mexi-
can sandstone and mounted in a lifelike pose. A closed-
circuit camera equipped with a zoom lens allows visitors
to view details of the work on TV monitors.

Artistic renderings of dinosaurs were presented in two
of the museum’s exhibitions in 1987: “Dinosaurs Past and
Present” and “Dinosaurs, Mammoths and Cavemen, The
Art of Charles R. Knight.” Other exhibitions included
“From Love of Nature,” which featured paintings of
plants and animals in Brazilian forests by Etienne, Rosa-
lia, and Yvonne Demonte; “Mountain Light,” a display
of Galen Rowell’s color photographs of some of the
world’s highest peaks and of the human and wildlife in-
habitants of these rugged areas; and “On China: Photo-
graphs by Hiroji Kubota.”

“The Magnificent Voyagers,” the museum’s acclaimed
1985-1986 exhibition, began a three-year tour of major
museums and historical societies across the United States.
An educational packet containing information about the
exploring expedition—a landmark in the annals of sci-
ence and U.S. naval history—is being distributed to
schools nationwide. In addition, the Office of Education
prepared a fifty-two page, slide-illustrated instructional
guide to the exhibition.

Also in conjunction with “The Magnificent Voyagers,”
the museum commissioned and premiered two one-act
plays about famous American explorers. Stormy Petrel
was a portrait of Captain Charles Wilkes, and A Brave
Man’s Part focused on John C. Fremont and his wife,
Jessie.

During 1987, the Office of Education presented a vari-
ety of other programs for students, families, and teach-
ers, as well as for museum visitors in general. Under the
office’s direction, an instructional kit, The Living Arts of
India, was completed and distributed to secondary
schools, universities, and museums in the United States

and, through the United Nations Children’s Emergency
Fund, in India. The kit consists of a three-hundred-page
teachers’ manual, four supplemental manuals, a video-
tape, and three audiotapes.

Special museum programs commemorated Black His-
tory Month and Hispanic Heritage Week. A special exhi-
bition, “Micronesia: New Islands in a Vast Sea,” was
developed as part of the museum’s observance of Asian-
Pacific American Heritage Week.

Members of the Office of Education organized more
than three dozen workshops for teachers and museum
educators in Washington, D.C., and in communities
across the nation. Moreover, the staff made presentations
to more than five thousand students in Washington,
D.C., area schools.

The Discovery Room, a special exhibit area where visi-
tors can touch and examine natural history objects,
hosted more than one hundred thousand visitors in 1987.
The Naturalist Center, which celebrated its tenth anni-
versary, was visited by seventeen thousand amateur scien-
tists, students, teachers, artists, and collectors. Thirty-
nine film programs and seventeen lectures were featured
in the Office of Education’s Friday film and lecture series.

“Butterflies and Their Flowers,” the fifth in a series of
charts on plant and animal identification, was published
in collaboration with the National Zoological Park. The
educational charts are used in classrooms, clubs, nature
centers, libraries, and homes.

139
National Portrait Gallery

The National Portrait Gallery chronicles America’s past
through artists’ portrayals of the nation’s leaders in poli-
tics, the arts and letters, and business; noted scientists;
folk heroes; sports greats; and the many others—the cele-
brated and the unjustly forgotten—who have left their
imprints on U.S. history. Through its permanent collec-
tion and its special exhibitions, the museum offers the
American public a fascinating look at the people who
have shaped their country.

Exhibitions

A major reinstallation of the National Portrait Gallery’s
permanent collection was completed in 1987. As a result,
the museum’s galleries are arranged more logically and
many recently acquired portraits have been placed on
permanent view for the first time. The first floor is now
home to portraits of notable actors, singers, musicians,
and writers of the twentieth century. The mezzanine level
is devoted to the Civil War era, and the second floor
features the Galleries of Notable Americans from 1600 to
present. These period galleries surround a central area
where portraits of contemporary artists and writers are
placed.

Upon completion of the reinstallation in May, the mu-
seum opened the special exhibition “Stage Portraits: Pho-
tographs of Mathew Brady from the Frederick Hill
Meserve Collection.” “TIME: Man of the Year,” which
also opened during the past year, was the latest in a se-
ries of shows based on original artwork donated to the
gallery by the magazine. “The Art of Henry Inman,” or-
ganized by guest curator Dr. William Gerdts, featured
more than one hundred works, the first such exhibition
of Inman’s paintings since his death in 1846. Included
among the works was the artist’s portrait of Angelica Sin-
gleton Van Buren, never before exhibited outside the
White House.

“Portraits from the American Academy and Institute of
Arts and Letters” displayed images of key figures in the
worlds of art, music, and literature from the collections
of the academy, which will show the exhibition in fall
1987 at its New York City headquarters. As an expres-
sion of its ongoing interest in caricature art, the gallery
also featured “Like and Unlike: Caricature Portraits by
Henry Major and Herman Perlman.” The exhibition
showcased amusing likenesses of many celebrities and
leaders from the period between the two world wars.
Two exhibitions of recent acquisitions were also mounted
in 1987.

140

The American Art/Portrait Gallery Library continued
its modest, but active, exhibition program in 1987. Nota-
ble among last year’s efforts was “Highlights from the
Downtown Gallery.” The exhibition commemorated the
sixtieth anniversary of the founding of New York City’s
Downtown Gallery, well known for its emphasis on
bringing the work of living American artists to the
people.

The museum’s staff devoted much time and effort to
creating an exhibition of about fifty paintings represent-
ing the last one hundred years of American portraiture.
The exhibition was commissioned by the U.S. Informa-
tion Agency as part of a cultural accord between the Peo-
ple’s Republic of China and the United States. The
showing in China, however, was canceled as the result of
a disagreement between the two governments. The exhi-
bition is now scheduled for a showing in Hong Kong
and, possibly, Japan.

In 1987, nearly two hundred items from the museum’s
collection were on temporary or long-term loan to insti-
tutions across the country and to other Smithsonian
bureaus. Major loans were made to the Library of Con-
gress and the Daughters of the American Revolution Mu-
seum in Washington, D.C.; the New York Public
Library; and the Huntington Galleries in West Virginia.

Acquisitions

The most important painting added to the collection in
1987—and, indeed, one of the most significant acquisi-
tions in the museum’s twenty-five-year history—is the
splendid portrait of Benjamin Franklin painted by J. S.
Duplessis in 1785. The portrait was a gift from the Mor-
ris and Gwendolyn Cafritz Foundation. Other significant
gifts to the gallery included portraits of Admiral and
Mrs. George Dewey by Theobald Chartran; nine original
plaster busts by Jo Davidson; paintings of David Sarnoff,
William B. Astor, George F. Bristow, and John Howard
Raymond; and a sculptured head of Gardner Cox.
Through purchase and gift, the gallery procured a por-
trait of James Jones by Bernard Childs and a portrait of
Rubens Peale by his brother Rembrandt Peale. The mu-
seum’s portrait collection was also enhanced by purchases
of several significant paintings, including portraits of Wil-

George Dewey by Theobold Chartran, oil on canvas. Bequest
of Frederick McLean Bugher to the National Portrait Gallery.
(Photograph by Eugene Mantie)
liam Pitt Fessenden, by Constantino Brumidi; of Dr. He-
len Lynd, by Alice Neel; and of Patience Wright, the first
American woman sculptor. The presidential portrait se-
ries benefited from the purchase of a life portrait of An-
drew Johnson by Washington Bogart Cooper.

The gallery received a major gift of 107 drawings by
Samuel J. Woolf, which was enhanced with purchases of
the renowned portrait illustrator’s drawings of Justice
Louis Brandeis, Charles Lindbergh, and Dr. Alexis Car-
rel. Watercolors purchased include Thomas Nast’s ren-
dering of President Ulysses $. Grant and one of Edwin
Austin Abbey by “Spy” (Sir Leslie Ward). In the area of
caricature, the museum acquired four early works by Al
Hirschfeld, a drawing of John Dos Passos by Adolf
Dehn, three drawings by William Sharp, and three paint-
ings by Thomas Nast, which included a representation of
poet William Cullen Bryant. Posters representing Buster
Keaton, Rita Hayworth, and Rudolph Valentino—made
in France, Italy, and Belgium, respectively—were pur-
chased, as were an American six-sheet poster of James
Cagney and an exceptional image of Buffalo Bill Cody.

Major purchases of photographs included vintage por-
traits of Gertrude Stein by Man Ray, Dwight David Ei-
senhower by Richard Avedon, Jack Kerouac by Robert
Frank, and Walter Philip Reuther by Josef Breitenbach,
as well as a unique calotype negative of Matthew Cal-
braith Perry by an anonymous photographer and a da-
guerreotype of Franklin Pierce by Albert Sands
Southworth and Josiah Johnson Hawes. Among gifts to
the museum were a hitherto unknown daguerreotype of
Jefferson Davis and a collection of original manuscript
materials relating to the final years and death of Mathew
Brady. The museum also initiated the transfer, from the
Dibner Library, of a major album of salt-print portraits
of President James Buchanan, his vice-president and cabi-
net, and the leading members of the U.S. Congress dur-
ing Buchanan’s administration. The album is an
extremely important pictorial document of American
politics on the eve of the Civil War.

Research and Education

Work on the museum’s Catalog of American Portraits, an
expansive computerized collection of portrait data, pro-
gressed in 1987. Staff members added major collections in
Richmond, Virginia, and New York City. Progress also
was reported in the transcribing, researching, and anno-
tating of selected letters and documents of Charles Will-
son Peale and his sons, Raphaelle, Rembrandt, and

142

Rubens. The series’ second volume, Selected Papers of
Charles Willson Peale and His Family: The Artist as Mu-
seum Keeper, 1771-1810, will be published by Yale Uni-
versity Press in December 1987. The manuscript for the
third volume, The Artist in Retirement, 1810-1820, is
scheduled to be delivered to Yale in spring 1988.

In conjunction with its exhibition schedule, the mu-

seum published catalogues for “The Art of Henry Inman”

and “Portraits from the American Academy and Institute
of Arts and Letters.” Brochures were produced for “Like
and Unlike: Caricature Portraits by Henry Major and
Herman Perlman” and “TIME: Man of the Year.”

The museum’s public education program continued to
combine a daily schedule of tours with an array of out-
reach programs for elementary and secondary schools
and for senior citizens. Continuing programs produced
by the Education Department include “Portraits in Mo-
tion” and its spinoffs, “Portraits in American Jazz,” “Por-
traits in American Song,” and “American Voices.” In
collaboration with the Resident Associate Program, the
department organized “Six Evenings with America’s Pre-
mier Authors and Artists.” Now well established, the
Lunchtime Lecture series and Speakers Bureau services
attract large audiences.

The curator of education and the curator of prints
combined their efforts to produce a valuable teachers’
guide. Published in 1987, Private Lives of Public Figures
introduces a new audience to a popular nineteenth-cen-
tury portrait tradition.
Office of Exhibits Central

The Office of Exhibits Central supports the Smithson-
ian’s exhibition programs by providing exhibit-related
services throughout the Institution. In 1987, the office
completed more than three hundred projects, serving
nearly every unit in the Institution. Services ranged from
exhibition design and script writing and editing to pro-
ductien of entire exhibitions, involving such tasks as
woodworking, model making, bracketing, taxidermy,
packing, and silk screening. The projects highlighted be-
low illustrate the diversity of the office’s activities.

Among the nearly twenty exhibitions the office pro-
duced for the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibi-
tion Service (SITES) was “Russia, The Land, The People:
Russian Painting, 1850-1910.” Under the supervision of
Russian conservators, office staff removed each of the
sixty-five paintings from their frames, added a spacer to
the stretcher, and then reframed the artworks under
Lexan. Staff members also developed accompanying
graphics and installed the exhibition at the Renwick Gal-
lery. Other projects accomplished for SITES in 1987 in-
cluded design, editorial, and production work for
“Gauguin and His Circle in Brittany: The Prints of the
Pont-Aven School,” “The Golden Age of Dutch Painting
from the Collection of the National Gallery of Ireland,”
and “Child to Child: American-Soviet Children’s Art
Exchange.”

The Model Shop was especially busy during the past
year. For the National Museum of American History’s
exhibition “Field to Factory,” six life-size, fully detailed
mannequins were created from shop-made lifelike casts of
faces, hands, and feet. The shop also built a 6-foot scale
model of the fernery at Philadelphia’s Morris Arboretum.
Created for the Smithsonian Office of Horticulture, the
model—replete with miniature ferns—was exhibited at
the Philadelphia Flower Show and at the Chelsea Flower
Show in London, England.

Applying its expertise in conservation, the office’s
Graphics Unit mounted, matted, and framed original
works on paper for the SITES exhibitions “Child to
Child: American-Soviet Children’s Art Exchange” and
“John Held’s America: Flappers, the Jazz Age, and Be-
yond.” The unit also silk-screened text panels and labels
for these and other exhibitions.

The Fabrication Unit was involved in nearly every of-
fice project, constructing panels, vitrines, and customized
shipping containers. In addition, the unit built thirty-five
pedestals for the National Portrait Gallery and replaced
damaged vitrines for the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculp-
ture Garden.

One of the office’s more novel projects in 1987 was the

exhibition “Roads to Liberty: From the Magna Carta to
the Constitution.” Working through the Office of the
Secretary and in support of the Commission on the Bicen-
tennial of the U.S. Constitution and the U.S. Constitu-
tion Council, the office designed, produced, and installed
the exhibition in a customized tractor-trailer truck. The
exhibition was seen in 134 cities, ending its tour in Phila-
delphia on the anniversary of the signing of the
Constitution.

143
Office of Horticulture

The Office of Horticulture is responsible for a full range
of horticultural services, including maintenance of the
grounds around the museums, interior plantings, and ed-
ucational activities such as tours, lectures, and seminars
to local, national, and international groups.

Notable among the office’s accomplishments during the
past year was the completion and opening, on May 21,
1987, of the 4.2-acre Enid A. Haupt Garden, the verdant
crown atop the Institution’s new underground museum
complex. True to the wishes of the garden’s donor and
namesake, Enid Annenberg Haupt, the office’s staff
achieved a “mature” look, planting tree specimens as tall
as 25 feet. Interspersed among beech and weeping cherry
trees, saucer magnolias, boxwoods, thornless hawthorns,
yews, American hollies, and other trees and shrubs are
about one hundred cast-iron garden benches, settees,
urns, and chairs from the office’s collections. The garden
was featured in the July 1987 issue of Smithsonian maga-
zine and has attracted considerable attention from other
publications.

Also in 1987, the Office of Horticulture participated in
flower shows in New York City, Philadelphia, and
Washington, D.C., and received awards for exhibits of
exceptional value. At the Philadelphia Flower Show, for
example, the office’s scale model of the nineteenth-cen-
tury fernery on the grounds of Philadelphia’s Morris Ar-
boretum won a special award for exceptional merit. The
fernery, made in collaboration with the Office of Exhib-
its Central, was loaned to the Morris Arboretum for its
exhibition at the Chelsea Flower Show in London, Eng-
land. The office again organized the annual “Trees of
Christmas” exhibition, now in its tenth year. The suc-
cessful exhibition benefited greatly from the efforts of
hundreds of volunteers—families, crafts groups, and indi-
viduals from around the nation—who contributed their
handmade ornaments.

Supplementing its educational programs for the public,
the office began developing a program of docent-led
tours of the Smithsonian’s gardens and grounds, the
greenhouse-nursery, and the office’s exhibits. In 1987, the
office provided training for seven student interns, and it
cosponsored two lectures and demonstrations. One fea-
tured Joseph Smith, who demonstrated Western-style
flower arranging. In the other, Akihiro Kasuya gave a
presentation on Ikebana, or Japanese-style flower
arranging.

For the Office of Product Development and Licensing
(OPDL), James R. Buckler, director of the Office of Hor-
ticulture, served as editor of Gardener’s Journal, a publi-
cation highlighting monthly activities in indoor and

144

Opening ceremonies for the Smithsonian’s new museum and
garden complex on the Mall, September 28, 1987. Visitors
flank the Enid A. Haupt Garden, which boasts a Victorian par-
terre, shown here planted with thousands of pansies. (Photo-
graph by Jim Wallace)

outdoor gardening. In addition to his other duties, Mr.
Buckler gave lectures to groups around the nation.

The office’s holdings benefited from the donation of a
unique collection of 250 bouquet holders and related hor-
ticultural memorabilia, a gift from Mrs. Frances Jones
Poetker of Cincinnati, Ohio.

In other activities, the director and Mrs. Kathryn Mee-
han, museum specialist working with OPDL, engaged in
negotiations with Brown-Jordan, a firm interested in
manufacturing reproductions of furniture in the Smith-
sonian’s indoor and outdoor gardens. In May, the office
hosted a reception for the Garden Club of Bavaria,
Germany.
Office of Museum Programs

The Office of Museum Programs is an outreach arm of
the Smithsonian, offering a growing array of professional
development services to museums in the United States
and throughout the world. The director of the office is
Jane R. Glaser.

More than five hundred museum professionals partici-
pated in office-organized workshops that were held at the
Institution in 1987. Coordinated by James Quinn, the se-
ries of in-depth workshops addressed a total of twenty-
seven topics essential to museum operations, as presented
by office staff members and by experts from other Smith-
sonian bureaus and from other organizations. New in
1987 was a five-day pilot program that focused on im-
proving teaching skills. Participants were Smithsonian
staff members.

The office also presents workshops at other institu-
tions, which are organized by Patricia Barrows in collab-
oration with state, regional, national, and international
groups. Among the fifteen on-site workshops held during
the past year were model training programs offered in
Trinidad/Tobago and Costa Rica, which were cospon-
sored by the Organization of American States.

Through its Internships in Museum Practices Program,
directed by Bruce Craig, the office placed more than fifty
U.S. and foreign students and museum professionals in
Smithsonian bureaus, where the participants were trained
in collections management, curatorial tasks, and other
museum duties. An additional one hundred museum
professionals participated in the program’s short-term
training sessions. Special seminars on museum practices
were organized for visiting groups from Spain, France,
and the People’s Republic of China. In addition, staff
members continued their involvement in two successful
annual programs. With the U.S. Information Agency,
program staff coordinated the fourth annual project on
Museum Management, which attracted twelve museum
directors, representing nine European nations. Thirty-
four museum interns attended the seventh annual “Mu-
seum Careers Seminar,” an eight-week program in which
professionals from the Smithsonian and other Washing-
ton, D.C., area museums serve as instructors and discus-
sion leaders.

The Audiovisual Program, which produces and distrib-
utes instructional videotapes and slide-cassette programs,
neared completion of several important teaching materi-
als. Productions soon to be released are Connoisseurship
in the Visual and Decorative Arts: The Educated Eye,
Horticulture in a Museum Setting, Museum and Commu-
nity, and More than Meets the Eye. The program, which
is coordinated by Laura Schneider, also began distribut-

ing a videotape and handbook on services for disabled
museum visitors, which was prepared by the Smithsoni-
an’s Office of Elementary and Secondary Education.

Now a decade old, the Native American Museums Pro-
gram, headed by Nancy Fuller, the office’s assistant di-
rector, continued to support the efforts of American
Indians, Inuits, and Aleuts to preserve their heritage
through the creation of tribal museums and cultural cen-
ters. The program offers internships, provides technical
assistance, and publishes instructional materials. In con-
junction with the International Research and Exchanges
Board, the office coordinated a three-week trip by four
museum specialists, two of whom are American Indians,
to East Germany, where they studied and documented
Native American artifacts in the collections of eight
museums.

The office also coordinated the awarding of $500
grants to twenty-six minority museum professionals. The
awards supported the recipients’ attendance at office-
organized workshops and allowed the professionals to
spend an additional week in residence at the Institution.

With the Toledo Museum of Art, the Kellogg Project—
the office’s special program to expand the educational
role of museums—cosponsored a workshop on interpre-
tive labeling for art museums. Two-member teams from
ten museums attended. In 1987, the project broadened its
Museum Professionals Program, making all senior-level
employees eligible for ten-day residencies at the Smith-
sonian. Nearing completion at the end of 1987 was the
book Museums and Adult Education, which will be pub-
lished jointly by the Kellogg Project and the National
University Continuing Education Association. Under the
direction of coordinator Philip Spiess, the project’s staff
also produced Museum and Community, a soon-to-be-
released film that focuses on four museums that have de-
veloped outstanding public education programs.

The Museum Reference Center, a branch of the Smith-
sonian Institution Libraries, responded to more than five
thousand inquiries in 1987. The center also published sev-
eral new bibliographies: Children in Museums, Gifted
Children in Museum Programs, Marketing of Museums,
and Disaster Planning. In addition, chief librarian Cath-
erine Scott and her staff revised twelve bibliographies and
resource guides in the center’s series, which by the end of
the year contained seventy-six publications.

145
Office of the Registrar

The Office of the Registrar is responsible for overseeing
management of the Institution’s vast collections. It plays
a central role in developing the Smithsonian Collections
Information System (CIS), and it works closely with indi-
vidual bureaus to improve the care of their holdings.
Through the Office of Museum Programs and the Regis-
trar’s Council, the Office of the Registrar provides train-
ing Opportunities.

Through the Registrar’s Council, Smithsonian person-
nel interested in collections management stay abreast of
new developments and address issues of mutual concern.
At the council’s monthly informational meetings, which
are held at various sites within the Institution, presenta-
tions are given by Smithsonian staff members and outside
experts, such as insurance and customs brokers and auto-
mation and planning specialists.

At the initiative of the Registrar’s Committee, a sepa-
rate body was formed in 1987 to assess the need for creat-
ing security copies of records for all of the Institution’s
collections. The Records Preservation Committee will be-
gin its task in 1988 with a thorough analysis of the acces-
sion records of the National Museum of American
History. The analysis will evalute various duplicating al-
ternatives—such as microfiche and magnetic media. Fac-
tors to be considered in the evaluation, which will be
conducted with the aid of an outside analyst, are storage
methods, accessiblity, and volume of use.

In June, the office’s formal review of its operations and
programs was presented to the Smithsonian Institution
Management Committee. As stated to the Management
Committee, the goals of the Office of the Registrar are to
ensure efficient, timely access to accurate, complete infor-
mation on the national collections; to ensure appropriate
physical care of the national collections, which include
objects, specimens, documents, and data; to lead, train,
and motivate Smithsonian registration and collection-
management personnel; and to strengthen management
philosophy and quality of collection care at the Smithson-
ian and throughout the wider museum community. These
goals address the four major aspects of collection work:
intellectual collections, physical collections, personnel de-
velopment, and service to the profession, respectively.

Also in 1987, the office initiated a program to survey
museums worldwide for information on automation pro-
jects related to collections management. This program is
being undertaken in cooperation with the Documentation
Committee of the International Council of Museums.

146

Smithsonian Institution
Traveling Exhibition Service

The Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service
(SITES) began 1987 by relocating its offices from the Arts
and Industries Building to the new museum complex, and
it ended the year with the inaugural exhibition in the
adjacent International Gallery.

“Generations,” the inaugural exhibition, presented the
ties that bind not only parent and child, but also all the
peoples of our planet, who, despite cultural differences,
share similar hopes for coming generations. Tapping the
Institution’s vast collections and scholarly resources, the
exhibition was supported with funding provided by the
Smithsonian Special Exhibition Fund, the Smithsonian’s
International Center, and SITES. An extensive program
of films, symposia, and family events is planned through
the exhibition’s six-month showing, and a companion
book, Generations: A Universal Family Album, was pub-
lished by SITES and Pantheon Books.

“Russia, The Land, The People: Russian Painting,
1850-1910,” an exhibition featuring paintings from the
collections of the State Tretyakov Gallery in Moscow and
the State Russian Museum in Leningrad, opened at the
Renwick Gallery in October 1986. The show marked the
first exhibition exchange with the Soviet Union since the
signing of a cultural agreement in November 1985. Shown
also at the Smart Gallery of the University of Chicago,
Harvard University’s Fogg Art Museum, and the Los An-
geles County Museum of Art, the exhibition drew
250,000 visitors during its ten-month tour. The SITES
exchange exhibition, “New Horizons: American Painting,
1840-1910,” will open in Moscow in November 1987.

About a third of the eighteen new exhibitions produced
by SITES in 1987 were cooperative efforts involving other
Smithsonian bureaus. These included “Fields of Grass”
and “Magnificent Voyagers: The U.S. Exploring Expedi-
tion,” with the National Museum of Natural History;
“Rhythm and Blues,” with the National Museum of
American History; and “Vietnam Veterans Memorial: A
National Experience,” with the Office of Printing and
Photographic Services. “Generations” was the product of
collaboration with many Institution offices. In addition,
the development of “Diversity Endangered,” a new poster
exhibition published with support from the National Sci-
ence Foundation, benefited from the expertise of a com-
mittee of curators from several bureaus.

SITES continued to collaborate with other museums in
developing new exhibitions. Among these exhibitions
were “Savory Suppers and Fashionable Feasts: Victorian
Dining in America” (Strong Museum, Rochester, New
York); “Impressions of a New Civilization: The Lincoln
Kirstein Collection” (Metropolitan Museum of Art, New
The Monument to Peter I on Senate Square in Petersburg, 1870, by V. 1. Surikov, was one of sixty-four paintings lent by the State
Russian Museum and the State Tretyakov Gallery for SITES’ exhibition “Russia, the Land, the People: Russian Painting, 1850—
HOMO:

York City); “Diamonds Are Forever: Artists and Writers
on Baseball” (New York State Museum, Albany); “Hoo-
ray for Yiddish Theater in America!” (B’nai B’rith Klutz-
nick Museum, Washington, D.C.); “Daughters of the
Desert: Women Anthropologists and the Native Ameri-
can Southwest, 1880-1980” (New Mexico State Univer-
sity Museum, Las Cruces); and “Dutch Paintings of the
Golden Age” (National Gallery of Ireland).

Two SITES exhibitions had international bookings
during the past year. “Kings, Heroes, and Lovers” toured
six Canadian museums, as well as one in Puerto Rico.
“People of the Forest” was presented at a museum in Rot-
terdam, The Netherlands.

SITES received a significant grant from the MacArthur
Foundation—the largest ever awarded to the Smithsonian
for an exhibition. The grant is supporting development
of “Tropical Rain Forests: A Disappearing Treasure” and
of educational programs for the major exhibition, which
will open in the International Gallery in May 1988. Also
scheduled to open next spring is “King Herod’s Dream:
Caesarea on the Sea.” SITES is organizing this exhibition
in cooperation with the University of Maryland Center
for Mediterranean Archaeology, the Caesarea Ancient
Harbor Excavation Project, the Joint Expedition to Cae-
sarea Maritima, and Israel’s Department of Antiquities
and Museums.

147
Eileen Rose, associate director for programs, was
named acting director of SITES, replacing Director Peggy
A. Loar, who resigned in July 1987 to head the Wolfson-
ian Foundation in Miami.

Exhibition Summary

SITES exhibitions during fiscal year 1987 are listed

below.

“Child to Child: American-Soviet Children’s Art”

“Daughters of the Desert: Women Anthropologists and
the Native American Southwest, 1880-1980”

“Diamonds are Forever: Artists and Writers on Baseball”

“Diversity Endangered”

“Dutch Paintings of the Golden Age”

“Fields of Grass”

“Generations”

“Haiti: The First Black Republic and Its Monuments to
Freedom”

“Hooray for Yiddish Art in America!”

“Impressions of a New Civilization: The Lincoln Kirstein
Collection”

“Italy: One Hundred Years of Photography”

“Magnificent Voyagers: The U.S. Exploring Expedition”

“Polished Perfection: The Art of Turned Wood Bowls”

“Remaking America: New Uses, Old Places”

“Rhythm and Blues”

“Russia, The Land, The People: Russian Painting, r850-
1910”

“Savory Suppers and Fashionable Feasts: Victorian Din-
ing in America”

“Vietnam Veterans Memorial: A National Experience”

Summary of SITES Exhibition Tours in Fiscal Year 1987

Number of bookings 396
Number of states served* 46
Estimated audience 10,000,000
Exhibitions listed in last Update 122,
New exhibitions produced 18

“Includes Washington, D.C.
"Catalogue of SITES exhibitions.

148
PUBLIC SERVICE

Ralph C. Rinzler, Assistant Secretary for Public Service

149
National Demonstration
Laboratory for
Interactive Educational
Technologies

The National Demonstration Laboratory for Interactive
Educational Technologies (NDL) was established in Feb-
ruary 1987 to help realize the full potential of one of the
most powerful teaching tools of the Information Age.
The first U.S. facility to focus entirely on research and
demonstration of interactive video technology, NDL is a
joint project of the Smithsonian and the Interactive Video
Consortium, a group of public television stations.

Through computer control of a recordlike disc “read”
by a laser beam, large amounts of audio, video, and tex-
tual information can be manipulated in ways limited, es-
sentially, only by the imagination of the user. Beyond
educational applications, the technology presents new op-
portunities for organizing, storing, retrieving, and archiv-
ing information. In addition to the Smithsonian, other
museums, and public broadcasting stations, the technolo-
gy’s potential beneficiaries include schools—elementary
through college—government agencies, and the home
user.

The NDL features an extensive array of hardware—
nearly all of it on extended loan from manufacturers—
and software, donated by the industry. Contributions
from industry also provide prinicipal support for the la-
boratory’s activities. NDL visitors, who numbered more
than five hundred during the first three months after the
laboratory’s opening, can evaluate this large collection of
interactive equipment and software in a noncommercial
atmosphere.

Projects

The NDL quickly established itself as a resource for
Smithsonian offices and bureaus. It advised staff of the
Visitor Information and Associates’ Reception Center on
planning a videodisc-based orientation system for the
Smithsonian Information Center, scheduled to open in
1989. The NDL made contacts with IBM, which also has
provided considerable assistance in designing and devel-
oping the videosystem.

Again acting as a technical adviser and intermediary,
the laboratory consulted with staff members of the Uni-
versity of the Air project, which is developing a twenty-
six-hour public television series, as well as videotapes and
videodiscs, on the intellectual and cultural history of the
twentieth century. The NDL also arranged a meeting of
prospective underwriters for the project and solicited
technical assistance from outside experts affiliated with
the laboratory.

In 1987, American Interactive Media, one of several

150

Nancy Barbour of APCO Associates enthusiastically describes
interactive technologies to a guest at the opening reception for
the National Demonstration Laboratory.

firms associated with the laboratory, agreed to fund the
planning and design of an interactive compact disc ver-
sion of Treasures of the Smithsonian, a book published
by the Smithsonian Institution Press. The company and
Smithsonian representatives are exploring other applica-
tions of the technology.

As part of its efforts to introduce the many and varied
units of the Institution to the new educational technol-
ogy, the NDL arranged for several Smithsonian staff
members to attend a ten-day IBM training course on in-
teractive videodisc planning, design, and production. The
computer firm provided free registration. Also through
NDL, Apple is donating ten advanced workstations to
the Smithsonian. The workstations will allow selected re-
searchers and curators to experiment with multimedia
computer programming. With the Smithsonian Institution
Press, the NDL organized a group of Smithsonian staff
members involved in publishing and production to exam-
ine the requirements and opportunities for tandem pro-
duction of printed works and interactive videodisc
programs.
National Science
Resources Center

Concern over the state of science and mathematics educa-
tion in the nation’s elementary and secondary schools led
to the establishment in 1985 of the National Science Re-
sources Center (NSRC). A joint undertaking of the
Smithsonian and the National Academy of Sciences, the
NSRC’s mission is to improve the teaching of precollege
science and mathematics by establishing a science and
mathematics curriculum resource center and information
data base, developing resource materials for teachers, and
offering a program of leadership-development activities.

Initial Projects

A primary aim of the NSRC is to identify, develop, test,
and disseminate scientifically up-to-date teaching materi-
als that stimulate student interest. Building on the lessons
learned from past efforts to improve science curricula and
on the experiences of school systems with exemplary sci-
ence programs, the center is concentrating initially on the
improvement of science teaching in elementary schools.
The goal of the NSRC’s first major project, “Science and
Technology for Children,” is to make young children
aware of the power of science in helping them solve
problems and understand their surroundings. During the
next four years, project staff, collaborating with research
scientists, teachers, and science-curriculum experts will
design a set of hands-on units for grades one through
six—simple scientific investigations intended to develop
children’s problem-solving and critical-thinking skills and
to broaden their understanding of important concepts.
Design, field testing, and dissemination of the units will
be accomplished in cooperation with a growing network
of school systems, state departments of education, science
museums, and research scientists. The development of
this network began with the NSRC’s National Confer-
ence on the Teaching of Science in Elementary Schools,
which was held in 1986.

In July 1987, the center sponsored a four-week materi-
als-development workshop, held in the Learning Center
of the National Museum of Natural History. Represent-
ing a broad range of school districts, including two Na-
tive American communities, more than seventy scientists,
teachers, science-curriculum specialists, and science-mu-
seum educators participated. The combined efforts of the
participants resulted in promising teaching activities in
such areas as microbiology, electrical circuits, the chemis-
try of liquids, plant growth, and insects. During the
1987-88 school year, the staff of the Science and Tech-
nology for Children Project will develop these activities

further and organize them into the first set of teaching
units. Elementary school teachers in urban, rural, and
suburban school systems will field-test the units, which
will then be revised, published, and distributed to school
systems throughout the country.

Fifth-grade students investigate the microscopic world of one-
celled organisms as part of the National Science Resources Cen-
ter’s Science and Technology for Children Project. (Photograph
by M. D. Bird)

151
Office of the Committee for

A Wider Audience

Established in 1986, the Office of the Committee for a
Wider Audience (OCWA) seeks to extend the reach of
the Smithsonian’s programs to segments of the public
that traditionally have been underrepresented at these ac-
tivities. The office evolved from the recommendations of
an ongoing committee of fourteen Smithsonian managers
and community representatives, formed in 1983 to help
the Institution’s bureaus and offices devise measures that
ensure participation of more diversified audiences.

In 1987, the office continued to support the work of
the Committee for a Wider Audience, and it added new
functions aimed at expanding the Smithsonian’s outreach
programs. These duties are carried out in conjunction
with other units of the Institution. With the Office of the
Assistant Secretary for Public Service, for example, the
OCWA coordinates the meetings and programs of the
Smithsonian Cultural Education Committee, a public ad-
visory group to the Institution’s senior-level management.
Across the Smithsonian, the OCWA advises bureaus and
offices on their programs to recruit minority profession-
als. It also assists in efforts to attract members of under-
represented ethnic groups to serve as volunteers and to
join the Institution’s local and national membership or-
ganizations. The OCWA provides additional support by
building and sustaining relationships with minority
communities.

Exposure to the Smithsonian is an essential ingredient
of measures to attract new audiences. The OCWA at-
tempts to ensure participation of minority groups at re-
ceptions and other special events, such as the opening of
the new museum complex in 1987. In addition, it organ-
ized a reception to mark the creation of the Cultural Ed-
ucation Committee and to commemorate the birthday of
Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. On a broader scale, the
OCWA, the Office of Public Affairs, and Smithsonian
magazine developed and launched a nationwide public
awareness campaign. Television and radio public service
announcements and advertisements on local buses and
subways are designed to acquaint minorities with the In-
stitution’s ethnic programs and services. Ads and articles
written for publications that serve black audiences also
are planned. Also, the committee, working with the Resi-
dent Associate Program, organized the “Brazilian Show-
case,” which was part of the Washington, D.C.,
International Filmfest.

In collaboration with the education staffs of the Na-
tional Museum of African Art, Sackler Gallery, and In-
ternational Center, the OCWA organized a series of
“open houses” to introduce students from Washington,
D.C., public schools to the new museums. The visits

152

James Brown, a docent at the National Museum of African Art,
discusses with sixth-grade students a Dandai mask in the “Afri-
can Art in the Cycle of Life” exhibition. (Harrison Eiteljorg
Collection. Photograph by Jeffrey Ploskonka)

were designed to complement classroom instruction on
world cultures and on the Eastern Hemisphere.

Finally, the office and the Program in Black American
Culture at the National Museum of American History
sponsored a conference of scholars and museum profes-
sionals, who examined museum programs that have suc-
cessfully integrated the cultures and histories of ethnic
groups generally neglected by traditional museums.

Office of Elementary and
Secondary Education

The Office of Elementary and Secondary Education
(OESE) works with other Smithsonian education offices
to help schools reap the full instructional value of mu-
seums. To achieve the potential of museum objects as
educational resources, the OESE offers a variety of publi-
cations and local and national programs.

An important aim of the office’s symposia and courses
for teachers is to demonstrate how to teach by using a
museum-oriented approach. During 1987, the office col-
laborated with education departments around the Mall to
organize eleven courses for teachers from the Washing-
ton, D.C., area and one graduate-level course for instruc-
tors from around the country. In addition, the OESE’s
Regional Worskhop Program conducted three day-long
sessions in Jackson, Michigan; Waterloo, lowa; and Phil-
adelphia, Pennsylvania. Concomitantly, the OESE
Teacher Internship Program built on the work of the Re-
gional Workshop Program by training high school teach-
ers to serve as liaisons between their local museums and
schools.

The office also organizes special programs that focus
on important events and issues. In 1987, the OESE spon-
sored the symposium “Teaching the Constitution,” which
attracted 150 elementary and secondary school teachers
and administrators from throughout the mid-Atlantic re-
gion. Presentations focused on social issues in the context
of the Constitution, while workshops addressed matters
related to classroom instruction on the nation’s founding
document. Also in conjunction with the Bicentennial of
the Constitution, the September issue of Art to Zoo, the
office’s quarterly publication with a national circulation
of seventy thousand, was devoted to teaching the concept
of individual rights and responsibilities of citizenship.

The OESE also continued to publish Let’s Go to the
Smithsonian, a newsletter distributed to about twelve
thousand teachers in and around Washington, D.C. The
periodical alerts teachers to events at the Smithsonian.

In collaboration with the Smithsonian Institution Press
and the Office of Telecommunications, the OESE’s Spe-
cial Education Program published a manual and video-
tape designed to help museum docents work more
effectively with disabled visitors. The materials will be
used at the Institution and at museums throughout the
country.

On July ro, the office convened the first meeting of the
Smithsonian Advisory Council on Education. Appointed
by Secretary Adams, the council is charged with helping
the Institution establish its priorities in museum-based ed-
ucational activities and in outreach programs.

Through teacher training programs, publications, spe-

cial education programs, and precollege training for
young people, OESE continues to help teachers and stu-
dents effectively use museums as educational resources.

One of forty interns in the Office of Elementary and Secondary
Education’s High School Intern Program, Susan Van Gundy
works in the National Museum of Natural History’s Coral Reef
exhibition. (Photograph by Christopher Haze)
Office of Folklife Programs

Folklife refers to the traditional social processes, cultural
patterns, and material products of tribal, familial, ethnic,
regional, and occupational groups. Folklife embodies the
creative strength of a diverse humanity. It is the accumu-
lated traditional wisdom and aesthetics of uncounted cul-
tural groups throughout the world, and it is the way in
which people establish continuity with the past. Today,
the integrity and continuity of the folklife traditions of
many communities are endangered. The Office of Folklife
Programs engages in cultural conservation activities—
scholarly research, professional advocacy, and public pro-
grams—that encourage continuity, integrity, and equity
for traditional cultures in the United States and abroad.

Festival of American Folklife

For two weeks each summer since 1967, the Mall be-
comes a “museum without walls,” a venue for presenting
living cultural exhibitions on American and international
folk traditions. The festival provides needed national visi-
bility for traditional cultures and exposes the general
public to the skills, knowledge, and aesthetic expressions
of diverse peoples. Cosponsored by the National Park
Service, the twenty-first annual festival (June 24-28, and
July 1-5) featured Michigan folklife, a program on the
nation’s multilingual heritage, music of the cultural com-
munities of the Washington, D.C., area, and evening
dance parties.

In celebration of Michigan’s 150th anniversary as a
state, craftspeople, musicians, fishermen, cooks, and
auto workers demonstrated the state’s regional, ethnic,
and occupational traditions. The program highlighted the
role of natural resources—especially waterways—and the
importance of migration in shaping the cultural expres-
sions of Michigan’s population.

“Cultural Conservation and Languages: America’s
Many Voices” featured songs, music, crafts, oratory, and
ceremonies, as presented by participants from Chinese-,
Lao-, Mexican-, and Anglo-American communities from
around the nation. The presentations illustrated the im-
portant roles languages play in preserving cultural
heritage.

In the first in a continuing series of annual programs,
musicians from the varied communities of metropolitan
Washington, D.C., introduced thousands of festival visi-
tors to the musical traditions of their native cultures. The
musicians represented the area’s African, Afro-American,
Anglo-American, Asian, Carribean, and Latin American
communities.

154

Folkways Archives

When the Institution acquired Folkways Records, the
best-known commercial publisher of folk and tribal mu-
sic in the United States, it also became custodian of an
extensive collection of unreleased material—field tapes
and ethnographic documentation—that is likely to be of
great value to researchers. The Folkways Archives in-
cludes books, audiotapes, original glass disks, field re-
ports, historical correspondence, and art works. In 1987,
staff members began developing systems for storing, ac-
cessioning, and cataloguing the archives. In concert with
other bureaus and outside organizations, the office also
began defining policies for managing the collection and
for continuing production of Folkways Records.

With the Smithsonian Institution Press, the office will
have ultimate responsibility for Folkways Records. Poli-
cies governing continued record production also are being
developed in concert with other bureaus and outside
experts.

Research

Work on monographs and accompanying films in the
Smithsonian Folklife Studies series continued in 1987. Es-
tablished in 1978, this innovative series uses book-length
monographs and complementary ethnographic films to
document and analyze particular traditions to a level of
detail unachievable when either medium is used alone.
The monograph The Korean Onggi Potter by Robert
Sayers, Department of Anthropology, California Acad-
emy of Sciences, with Ralph Rinzler, assistant secretary
for public service, was published during the past year.
Also in 1987, the office initiated studies of Massachu-
setts folklife, and it began formulating plans for research
on the family farm, Native American and Afro-American
traditions, and the cultural traditions of Southeast Asian
immigrants. International undertakings included planning
for collaborative studies in Latin America, China, Pakis-
tan, Indonesia, the Soviet Union, and the Arab Gulf States.

Special Projects

The Office of Folklife Programs began planning for sym-
posia, exhibitions, and other programs that will com-
memorate the Columbus Quincentenary in 1992. With
Radio Smithsonian, the office produced a pilot program
‘NN

ia

Los Matachines de Ladrillero, sacred processional dancers from Laredo, Texas, perform the ritual dance that venerates the legend of

Santa Cruz, the Holy Cross, at the Festival of American Folklife.

on international music, which could develop into a
weekly broadcast. During the past year, Radio Smithson-
ian featured music recorded at the 1986 Festival of Ameri-
can Folklife and, in collaboration with the office, devel-
oped programs on the cultural consequences of migration
and on the role of language in preserving traditional
cultures.

In cooperation with the Smithsonian Institution Travel-
ing Exhibition Service, the office curated the exhibition
“The Grand Generation: Memory, Mastery, Legacy,”
which documents the role that older people play in pre-
serving and passing down traditional culture from gener-
ation to generation. The exhibition opened in November
1987 in Fort Lauderdale, Florida, and will tour for two
years.
Office of Interdisciplinary
Studies

The Office of Smithsonian Symposia and Seminars
changed its name in December 1986 to communicate
more clearly its mission: exploring gaps in knowledge
and delivering new results of scholarship in the humani-
ties and the physical, natural, and human sciences. The
office seeks to strengthen integrative learning inside and
outside the Institution. Its programs gather practitioners,
patrons, and users of research, as well as interested mem-
bers of the general public. These activities demonstrate
that increasing and diffusing knowledge—the terms of the
Smithsonian’s mandate—are interdependent parts of the
same process.

Appropriately, the Smithsonian’s ninth International
Symposium focused on the Constitution. Held May 18-
23, in Charlottesville, Virginia, and Washington, D.C.,
“Constitutional Roots, Rights, and Responsibilities” was
the scholarly centerpiece of the nation’s observance of the
Bicentennial of the Constitution. Representing twelve
countries, the sixty-eight symposium participants in-
cluded Lord Hailsham, Lord High Chancellor of Great
Britain, and Robert Badinter, president of the Conseil
Constitutionnel de France. Among the participants from
the United States were Warren E. Burger, former Chief
Justice of the United States; Supreme Court Justice Wil-
liam J. Brennan, Jr.; Judith Shklar, Harvard University
professor of government; Cornell University historian
Michael Kammen; Derrick A. Bell, Jr., Harvard Univer-
sity professor of law; psychiatrist and educator Robert
Coles; consumer advocate Ralph Nader; Joyce Oldham
Appleby, University of California at Los Angeles histo-
rian; and Ernest L. Boyer, president of the Carnegie
Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching.

Thought-provoking discussions punctuated the pro-
ceedings, which attracted students and others from
around the country. Parts of the symposium were broad-
cast by C-Span, Voice of America, and Worldnet. Essays
based on the event will be published in a forthcoming
volume, edited by the symposium chairman, A. E. Dick
Howard, University of Virginia. In addition, the office is
producing “Rights at Risk: The Responsibilities of Citi-
zenship,” a half-hour video documentary for high school
students.

Also as part of the bicentennial commemoration, the
office is organizing “Afro-Americans and the Evolution of
a Living Constitution,” scheduled for March 1988. Or-
ganized with the Joint Center for Political Studies, the
symposium will examine how the struggles of black
Americans for full citizenship have influenced constitu-
tional law and how they have affected other domestic
groups.

156

An academic procession from the National Museum of Ameri-
can History to the Departmental Auditorium opened the ninth
international Smithsonian symposium in Washington. Led by
pipers, General Counsel Peter Powers served as marshal, and
Regent Jeannine Smith Clark carried the Smithsonian mace.

To mark the opening of the Arthur M. Sackler Gallery,
the office organized “Recreations with the Muses,” a
symposium on creativity in the arts and sciences. At the
all-day event, held September 11 at the National Acad-
emy of Sciences, accomplished individuals in a variety of
fields described the underlying elements and processes to
which they attributed their moments of inspiration.

At the close of the year, the office completed prepara-
tions for “Science, Ethics, and Food,” an international
colloquium devoted to global food issues. M. S. Swami-
nathan, architect of India’s “green revolution,” was
scheduled to receive the first General Foods World Food
Prize at the meeting, slated for October 6-7, 1987.

The office continued to develop a series of intramural
seminars intended to foster a greater sense of intellectual
community among Smithsonian staff members and fel-
lows and to bridge institutional boundaries that may
hamper fruitful collaborations in related areas of interest.
The first of the “Ways of Knowing” seminars was sched-
uled for fall 1987.

Office of Public Affairs

The public learns about much of the Smithsonian’s re-
search, exhibitions, permanent collections, and programs
through accounts appearing in newspapers and maga-
zines and airing on television and radio. In their efforts
to portray the Smithsonian, the news media request the
assistance of the Office of Public Affairs, which provides
news releases, backgrounders, publications, photographs,
videotapes, and logistical support. The office also over-

sees Institution-wide information and advertising programs.

The office coordinated the massive publicity program
for the opening of the Smithsonian’s new museum, re-
search, and education complex on September 28. This
program involved working with hundreds of media out-
lets in the United States and abroad. The office produced
press kits and photographs, radio and television public
service announcements, a special supplement of the em-
ployee newspaper, advertisements in national newspapers
and magazines, and an exhibition for the Martin Luther
King, Jr., Library in Washington, D.C.

A press preview in September attracted the largest sin-
gle-day press draw in the Institution’s history. Nearly
three hundred people attended the all-day event, repre-
senting ninety-eight different print-media organizations
and nineteen broadcast outlets. In-depth coverage of the
Sackler Gallery, National Museum of African Art, and
International Gallery appeared in major national news
media, including the Washington Post, New York Times,
Associated Press, UPI, Reuters, Wall Street Journal,
Christian Science Monitor, Chicago Tribune, Miami
Herald, and Philadelphia Inquirer, as well as overseas
publications. The museums were covered by national and
international television and radio.

During the year, the Office of Public Affairs updated
and revised its visitor brochures, including the popular
“Welcome” brochure distributed at all visitor information
desks. The brochure was prepared in French, Spanish,
German, Japanese, and, for the first time, Chinese and
Arabic. The office also published a revised edition of “A
Guide for Disabled Visitors,” as well as a flyer and com-
memorative brochure about the new museum complex.

As part of its ongoing commitment to reach an ever-
wider audience, the office expanded its Hispanic Out-
reach Program. During the year, the office increased its
contact with the Hispanic media and began distributing a
monthly calendar of events in Spanish. The Hispanic edi-
tion of the Smithsonian News Service, supported by a
grant from the Educational Outreach Program, continued
to be popular with more than one hundred Hispanic pub-
lications. A briefing for Hispanic media on the Columbus
Quincentenary attracted twenty-nine journalists.

A press preview of the Smithsonian’s new museum complex at-
tracted the largest single-day press draw in the Institution’s his-
tory as 300 journalists came to hear Secretary Robert McC.
Adams and other officials and to view the Arthur M. Sackler
Gallery, the National Museum of African Art, and the Interna-
tional Gallery. (Photograph by Dane Penland)

Accomplishments in the office’s Black Outreach Media
Program included preparation of backlit posters for dis-
play in Metro subway stations, advertisements for Black
History Month, and radio public service announcements.
The office also updated “Explore Your Heritage,” a bro-
chure highlighting Smithsonian programs of interest.

The office issued more than five hundred news releases
on Smithsonian activities and also provided publicity as-
sistance to other bureaus and offices in the Institution. It
planned and implemented major publicity campaigns for
the acquisition of Folkways Records, the reopening of the
Anacostia Museum, the formation of the National Dem-
onstration Laboratory for Interactive Educational Tech-
nologies and the National Science Resources Center, the
groundbreaking of the Tupper Research and Conference
Center in Panama, the opening of the Enid A. Haupt
Garden, and the Ninth International Symposium on Con-
stitutional Roots, Rights, and Responsibilities. The office
organized a media luncheon to introduce the Smithsoni-
an’s Cultural Education Committee, which is aimed at
helping to increase wider audience visitation.

The office’s publications, including its three-times-a-
year periodical Research Reports, were recognized for ex-
cellence by the Society for Technical Communications.
The Torch, a monthly newspaper for the Smithsonian
staff, received honors from the National Association of
Government Communicators, and Smithsonian News
Service stories received awards from both organizations.

1$7
Office of

Telecommunications

In collaboration with the Institution’s scientists and histo-
rians, the Office of Telecommunications produces films,
radio shows, and television programs that present the
fruits of the Smithsonian’s wide-ranging activities to the
American public. Winners of numerous awards, the of-
fice’s productions have introduced many Americans to
their national museums.

In December 1986, Nazaret Cherkezian retired after
serving twelve years as director of the Office of Telecom-
munications. Associate director Paul Johnson was named
acting director, and a smooth transition enabled staff
members to move forward on a wide range of projects.

During the past year, the Smithsonian Television, Film,
and Radio Communications Council was established to
develop strategies and priorities for future initiatives in
electronic media. The office is working closely with the
council to lay specific plans for its operation and for me-
dia projects that convey the full range of research and
scholarship in the Institution’s bureaus.

The office continued to produce two major program
series that highlight research, exhibitions, and perform-
ances at the Institution. “Here at the Smithsonian,” a se-
ries of short television features, launched its sixth season,
airing on 180 subscribing stations that serve more than
half of the prime-time viewing audience in the United
States. “Radio Smithsonian,” a weekly, thirty-minute se-
ries, reaches a potential audience of three million people.
In 1987, the office began exploring the possibility of pro-
ducing a weekly, one-hour radio show for nationwide
distribution. Featuring a much wider sampling of the In-
stitution’s music and performance programs, the show
would succeed “Radio Smithsonian.” Production of a pi-
lot show, in cooperation with public radio station
WETA-FM, could begin in early 1988.

Thirteen film and video projects were completed by the
office in 1987. From Reliable Sources, a film produced at
the request of the Archives of American Art, chronicles
the unique role of the archives in documenting the history
of American art. Disabled Museum Visitors: Part of
Your General Public, a training tape for docents, was
produced in cooperation with the Office of Elementary
and Secondary Education. The video Diversity Endan-
gered complements a poster-panel exhibition, produced
by the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Serv-
ice. The video and exhibition examine how human activi-
ties are jeopardizing biological diversity in tropical
forests. Field to Factory, produced in conjunction with
the National Museum of American History (NMAH) ex-
hibition of the same name, details the migration of blacks
from the rural South to urban North between rors and

158

1940. Also for NMAH, the office produced a video epi-
logue to the exhibition “Engines of Change,” which ex-
plores the nation’s transformation into an industrial
power.

Projects nearing completion at the end of 1987 included
Magnificent Voyagers, a half-hour film on the U.S. Ex-
ploring Expedition of 1838-1842. The film is being pro-
duced for the National Museum of Natural History’s
Office of Education. Another nearly completed film,
Building a Biosphere, focuses on the effort of the Smith-
sonian’s Marine Systems Laboratory to create models of
the Chesapeake Bay and Florida Everglades ecosystems.

For the Visitor Information and Associates’ Reception
Center, the office began work on a comprehensive video-
tape that will be used at the new information center be-
ing built in the Castle. The office also will help produce
interactive video programs that will allow visitors to
summon specific information about the museums.

The office continued to develop quality video and au-
dio programming for children and to explore new educa-
tional opportunities for young audiences. The pilot for
“Smithsonian Quest,” a planned television series for chil-
dren between the ages of nine and twelve, was well re-
ceived by education specialists, and the office began
seeking an appropriate coproducer. The office also began
initial research to develop a potential series of audio cas-
settes for classroom use in the fifth and sixth grades.
Smithsonian Institution Press

The Smithsonian Institution Press each year produces
more than one hundred books, monographs, and record-
ings relating to the Institution’s collections and research
interests. In 1987, the Press continued on a path of steady
growth and increased productivity, and initiated impor-
tant changes that promise additional enhancements in
performance and service. For example, the Press devel-
oped several new series—from reprints of “Old West”
classics to new titles on American cultural history—and
quadrupled its sales force. The Press also reorganized its
fulfillment service for University Press books, and contin-
ued to build the staff of acquisitions editors. At the same
time, the Press expanded activities on the international
publishing scene, in both marketing and editorial mat-
ters, and furthered efforts to develop a continuity series
in the Direct Mail Division. Publishing projects tailored
to juvenile and general markets continued to progress.
Several of these developments are discussed in more de-
tail below.

University Press Division

In the University Press Division, the federally funded
Contributions and Studies Series program neared its goal
of complete electronic processing of all manuscripts.
With all the components of the desktop publishing sys-
tem in place, program staff members edited and typeset
all manuscripts on computer. This development elimi-
nated all charges to bureau sponsors for typesetting and
page makeup. Estimated savings to the Institution during
the past year covered the cost of the equipment for the
electronic system. Moreover, Series editors now have
greater control over production details and offer authors
greater typographic flexibility than was previously
possible.

Some of the new Contributions and Studies titles pub-
lished in 1987 were “The Allende Meteorite Reference
Sample,” by Eugene Jarosewich, et al. (Smithsonian Con-
tributions to the Earth Sciences, no. 26); “A History and
Annotated Account of the Benthic Marine Algae of Tai-
wan,” by Jane E. Lewis and James N. Norris (Smithson-
ian Contributions to the Marine Sciences, no. 29);
“Biology of Freshwater Fishes of the Bermuda Ocean
Acre,” by Robert H. Gibbs, Jr., and William H. Krueger
(Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology, no. 452); “The
Korean Onggi Potter,” by Robert Sayers with Ralph Rinz-
ler (Smithsonian Folklife Studies, no. 5); and “A Brief
History of Geomagnetism and a Catalog of the Collec-
tions of the National Museum of American History,” by

Robert F. Multhauf and Gregory Good (Smithsonian
Studies in History and Technology, no. 48).

New titles published by the University Press Division
spanned a broad range of subjects. The lead title on the
1987 spring list was The Music Men: An Illustrated His-
tory of Brass Bands in America, 1800-1920, by Margaret
Hindle Hazen and Robert M. Hazen. Announced at the
American Booksellers Association Convention in May,
the book has received laudatory reviews. Fred Starr, pres-
ident of Oberlin College, said: “This glorious volume
evokes the last era before what Sousa dubbed ‘canned
music’; and it does so with scholarly diligence, sympathy,
thoroughness, and imagination. A charming book.”

The division also inaugurated the new Smithsonian Se-
ries in Archaeological Inquiry with the publication of The
Archaeology of Western Iran, edited by Frank Hole. The
Smithsonian Series in Ethnography, which debuted in
1986, issued The Passion of Ansel Bourne: Multiple Per-
sonality in American Culture, by Michael Kenny, and Pil-
grims of the Andes, by Michael Sallnow. Two new
volumes on twentieth-century art were produced in coop-
eration with the National Museum of American Art:
Modern American Realism: The Sara Roby Foundation
Collection, by Virginia M. Mecklenburg, and Gene
Davis: A Memorial Exhibition, by Jacquelyn D. Serwer.
New books on aviation history included Rebels and Re-
formers, by R. E. G. Davies, and Another Icarus: Percy
Pilcher and the Quest for Flight, by Philip Jarrett. Among
the Press’s new titles in the sciences were Mercury: The
Elusive Planet, by Robert G. Strom, and The Tanagers:
Natural History, Distribution, and Identification, by
Morton and Phyllis Isler. Animal Intelligence: Insights
into the Animal Mind, edited by R. J. Hoage and Larry
Goldman, was issued in the National Zoological Park
Symposia for the Public Series.

Service to Other Bureaus

The September 28 opening of the new museum complex
was preceded by a crush of publishing activity. For the
Arthur M. Sackler Gallery and National Museum of Afri-
can Art, the Press handled production and distribution of
four catalogues: Asian Art in the Arthur M. Sackler Gal-
lery: The Inaugural Gift; African Art in the Cycle of Life;
Royal Benin Art: Selections from the National Museum
of African Art; and Patterns of Life: West African Strip-
Weaving Traditions. The Press also handled production
of invitations and announcements for the opening. In ad-
dition, the Press conceived, developed, and published A

159
New View from the Castle, written by Edwards Park,
with Jean Paul Carlhian, chief design architect of the
complex. The volume is an illustrated account of the
complex’s architecture and personae.

Recordings Division

The Recordings Division produced and released three
new albums under its Smithsonian Collection label, each
with extensive liner notes in an accompanying book. The
largest of these was the updated, redesigned edition of
the division’s first release, The Smithsonian Collection of
Classic Jazz, originally issued in 1973. Programmed and
annotated by Martin Williams, the new edition features
seven records or five cassettes. Singers and Soloists of the
Swing Bands, programmed by Martin Williams and an-
notated by Mark Tucker, was released in August in six-
record and four-cassette formats. The third release,
Jimmie Rodgers on Record: America’s Blue Yodeler—
available as a set of two records or cassettes—featured a
booklet by Nolan Porterfield, Rodgers’s biographer. The
Folklife Center of the Library of Congress included the
release in its 1987 Selected List of new recordings. Hon-
ors also were accorded to the booklet accompanying last
year’s release Virtuosi. Written by music critics Richard
Freed and Peter Eliot Stone, the booklet was nominated
for a 1987 Grammy Award for Best Album Notes and
received the ASCAP-Deems Taylor Award for distin-
guished writing on the subject of music.

Smithsonian Books

Published in 1987, The Smithsonian Book of Flight, by
former National Air and Space Museum Director Walter
J. Boyne, was distributed to the Smithsonian Associates
by direct mail and to the retail book trade by Crown
Publishers. In addition, the Book-of-the-Month Club of-
fered the 256-page volume as a dividend selection. Con-
taining more than three hundred illustrations and
photographs, The Smithsonian Book of Flight has re-
ceived uniformly good reviews, and sales have exceeded
expectations.

Other Developments

To accommodate continued growth, the Press contracted
with sixteen commissioned sales representatives, a four-

160

fold increase over the previous year. Sales representation
in the United States is now on a par with the largest of
the university presses. Overseas, sales representation re-
mains the same: Eurospan in the United Kingdom and
continental Europe; Scholarly Book Services in Canada;
UBS in India; Feffer and Simons and also Maruzen Com-
pany, Ltd., in Japan; Cambridge University Press in Aus-
tralia; and Feffer and Simons in the rest of the world.
The Press has become increasingly active in foreign mar-
kets. In 1987, representatives journeyed to publishing or-
ganizations in the Far East and Western and Eastern
Europe. The Press hosted a delegation representing
China’s university presses, a Chinese scientific publica-
tions group, and a delegation from Yugoslavia.

Awards and honors continue to enhance the status of
the Press’s lists and staff. Among the the more notewor-
thy accolades in 1987 were the design award of the Art
Directors Club of Washington to Gene Davis: A Memo-
rial Exhibition; the Phi Beta Kappa Award in science to
Fred L. Whipple’s The Mystery of Comets; and the
Book-of-the-Year Award of the Wildlife Society South-
eastern Section for Paul B. Hamel’s Bachman’s Warbler.

Finally, for the eighth consecutive year, the Press’s net
gain resulted in a substantial contribution to the Institu-
tion’s unrestricted general trust funds. The net gain for
1987 exceeded the Press budget by 117 percent.
Smithsonian Magazine

Smithsonian is the official magazine of the Institution. To
many of its primary audience of four million and pass-
along audience of an additional three million, it provides
their only experience with the Institution. Smithsonian
has the largest circulation of any museum-affiliated mag-
azine in the world. The Institution’s educational message
is evident in the monthly magazine’s regular coverage of
every subject area of the Smithsonian museums: art, his-
tory, science, and technology.

Although it deals directly with the Institution every
month through columns such as the Secretary’s “Smith-
sonian horizons,” Ted Park’s “Around the Mall and be-
yond,” and “Smithsonian highlights,” the magazine is not
a house organ in the usual sense—nor was it ever in-
tended to be. Its mandate is not only to represent the
Smithsonian explicitly, but also to examine subjects in
which the Institution is interested.

Subscribers receive discounts on books and records
from the Smithsonian Institution Press and on educa-
tional items available in the museum shops and through a
catalogue produced by the Business Management Office.
Subscribers are also eligible to participate in tours, re-
gional events, and other activities sponsored by the Na-
tional Associate Program.

The magazine provides a constant flow of new mem-
bers to the Contributing Membership, the Resident Asso-
ciate Program, and the Cooper-Hewitt Museum Associate
Program. For these programs, the magazine is the princi-
pal benefit of membership.

During 1987, Smithsonian magazine presented a varied
menu of stories about the sciences, the arts, and history.
Beyond covering Smithsonian activities in regular columns,
the magazine published articles on the John La Farge exhi-
bition (National Museum of American Art), the “Field to
Factory” exhibition (National Museum of American His-
tory), the dinosaur exhibition (National Museum of Natu-
ral History), the acquisition of Folkways Records, and the
rhinoceros relocation project in Nepal (Smithsonian/ Nepal
Terai Ecology Project). To mark the openings of the
Haupt Garden, the Sackler Gallery, and the Museum of
African Art, the magazine ran one cover and twenty-six
editorial pages, much of which was reproduced in a spe-
cial reprint. In addition, three related stories paid particu-
lar attention to issues concerning tropical forests. One
examined the conflict between the long-range benefits of
forest conservation and the immediate needs of Central
Americans who are trying to wrest a living from the land.
The two other stories discussed ongoing Smithsonian re-
search projects in Latin America. Smithsonian recognized

the Constitution’s bicentennial with major stories on the
Constitutional Convention and on James Madison.

In 1987, Smithsonian articles were widely reprinted in
commercial publications and in educational and nonprofit
journals. The magazine also received recognition from
peers in the publishing world in the form of a special
award for excellence from the American Society of Jour-
nalists and Authors.

Financially, the magazine experienced its best year. In
keeping with the generally low inflation rate, costs were
under control. While the number of advertising pages was
down during the first half of the year, the number during
the second half was up compared with the previous year.
Circulation was stable at 2.3 million.

161
“Smithsonian World”

“Smithsonian World,” the prime-time public television se-
ries coproduced by the Institution and WETA, completed
a highly successful third season. Since it began in January
1984, the series has aired seventeen one-hour specials,
hosted by David McCullough, and it has quickly evolved
into one of the most popular offerings of the Public
Broadcasting Service.

In its third season, “Smithsonian World” featured five
cultural documentaries that examined American institu-
tions and the forces that have shaped them. The series,
created under the leadership of executive producer Ad-
rian Malone, was awarded a Primetime Emmy in the cat-
egory of Outstanding Informational Series.

The season premiered in November 1986 with the air-
ing of “The Wyeths: A Father and His Family,” and crit-
ics responded with high praise, citing the program, in the
words of one, as a “compelling example of what televi-
sion does best.” Geof Bartz was nominated for a News
and Documentary Emmy in the category of Outstanding
Individual Achievement for Film Editing. The four other
specials that aired in 1987 were “Voices of Latin Amer-
ica” (April), “The Elephant on the Hill” (May), “The
Promise of the Land” (June), and “Islam” (July). A special
screening of “Voices” was held at the National Museum
of American History, and the Egyptian Embassy hosted a
screening of “Islam,” which was enthusiastically received
in the Middle East.

In addition to the Primetime Emmy for 1987, “Smith-
sonian World” received the American Film Festival Red
Ribbon, a CINE Golden Eagle award, and a Clarion
award for excellence in communication.

Syndication and cassette rights for programs airing
during the first and second seasons of “Smithsonian
World” were sold to LBS Communications. The pro-
grams are being repackaged as one- and two-hour spe-
cials to be aired on local commercial stations.

162.

Visitor Information and
Associates’ Reception Center

The Visitor Information and Associates’ Reception Cen-
ter (VIARC) is the Institution’s central point for provid-
ing information, assistance, and membership services to
the public, Associate members, staff, volunteers, and in-
terns. Offering many of its services seven days a week,
the center coordinates and directs the efforts of large
numbers of volunteers, who are an integral part of the
Institution’s public information programs and its behind-
the-scenes activities.

In 1987, the Institution completed a resoundingly suc-
cessful private fund-raising campaign for the $2.7 million
Smithsonian Information Center, which will be located in
the Smithsonian Institution Building. Major gifts were re-
ceived from the PEW Memorial Trust, The Kresge Foun-
dation, and the Morris and Gwendolyn Cafritz Founda-
tion. The Smithsonian Contributing Membership, the
National Board, and the James Smithson Society also
made generous contributions.

VIARC’s proposed Institution-wide exterior graphic in-
formation system moved forward with the endorsement
of the color scheme, logo, typography, and base material
by the Commission of Fine Arts.

The Museum Information Desk Program was ex-
panded to include services for the National Museum of
African Art, Arthur M. Sackler Gallery, and the kiosk of
the S. Dillon Ripley Center. Eighty volunteer information
specialists underwent a special, comprehensive training
program to provide services in the new museum complex.
In addition, some 188 volunteers assisted the staff in pre-
paring for the many special events preceding the public
opening of the complex.

The center’s Telephone Information Program recorded
some 406,000 inquiries during the year. Record traffic
days included February 23, the date of one of the winter’s
major snowstorms, when 1,263 telephone inquiries were
received. Over the April 15 weekend, the date of the
Washington Craft Show and the Paul E. Garber Facility
Open House, more than two thousand calls were an-
swered. During the summer, the hottest in years, the Mo-
bile Information Service provided full out-of-doors
information assistance, operating seven days a week from
Memorial Day to Labor Day.

The Behind-the-Scenes Volunteer Program, whose re-
cruitment and activities are coordinated by the center,
continued to provide invaluable support to the Institu-
tion’s offices and bureaus. More than twelve hundred
volunteers assisted in independent projects, and the pro-
gram’s popular translation service expanded to include
twenty-eight languages.

Written requests continued to arrive in significant vol-
ume. The Public Inquiry Mail Unit answered some forty-
seven thousand requests for information, and it also
began accessing the Smithsonian Institution Bibliographic
Information Service. The Information Outreach Program
initiated and coordinated several new projects. Highlights
included: presentations for Voice of America and a cable
television station’s travel almanac; coordination of script
and visual materials for Washington-at-a-Touch, a local
company producing interactive information videos for
use in Washington-area hotels and tourist attractions;
participation in the National Tour Association market-
place, which netted contacts with more than fifty tour
and travel companies; and oversight of a survey in Mall
museums to assess the effectiveness of membership pro-
motion activities. The survey was conducted through par-
ticipation in the Management Analysis Office’s summer
Management Assistance Program.

Concerted efforts to increase the participation of mi-
norities in the center’s volunteer programs met with suc-
cess. Seventeen percent of the 150 volunteer information
specialists recruited in 1987 were members of minority
constituencies. To meet the needs of the growing His-
panic community in Washington, D.C., the center pro-
vided taped information in Spanish during Hispanic
Festival Week in July and during Hispanic Heritage Week
in September. The center offered Smithsonian Orienta-
tion Programs in Spanish at the Adams Morgan Neigh-
borhood Hispanic Festival and at the Tarde Hispana
Celebration.

Results of the center’s annual Institution-wide volun-
teer survey indicated that 5,244 volunteers contributed
457,243 hours of service to the Smithsonian in 1987.
Sypsest :
\
lhe ee el
} 5 a
© DAs ho) iu
tm,
nv ih) CATS
Bay '
ee
”
os)
ia

vim rie, « wt ANG
: apn le ahi ee
> “ oll rh » be ce

re
ADMINISTRATION

John F. Jameson, Assistant Secretary for Administration

165
Administrative and Support
Activities

Largely hidden from public view, the Institution’s admin-
istrative and technical support offices provide services es-
sential to the success of the Smithsonian’s scholarly and
public activities. These units are also responsible for cen-
tral oversight, ensuring accountability in the use of finan-
cial, personnel, and physical resources. Fourteen offices
and their numerous divisions carry out activities that
span the Institution and range from budget formulation
to building security.

Central administration costs, exclusive of those related
to the care of facilities, remained relatively low in 1987,
accounting for 7 percent of the Institution’s federal and
trust operating budget.

Office of Programming and Budget

On the basis of its review of the Institution’s planning
and budget processes, the Office of Programming and
Budget (OPB) adopted new, integrative procedures. The
OPB assumed responsibility for coordinating all planning
activities and for preparing the Smithsonian’s Five-Year
Prospectus. Other changes, which were enacted with
preparation of the federal budget request for the 1989
fiscal year and the 1988 and 1989 budgets for nonappro-
priated funds, foster greater discussion about plans and
priorities. As a result, bureaus and offices now have more
opportunities to identify common interests and promising
areas for collaboration. The OPB increased its use of
computers and other automation technology in develop-
ing budgets and the Prospectus. This translated into
greater efficiency in processing and assembling budget
submissions for the Office of Management and Budget.
Moreover, detailed program and financial information is
now more easily accessible, aiding decision making
within the Institution and tightening the relationship be-
tween short- and long-range planning.

Office of Information Resource Management

The five-year-old Office of Information Resource Man-
agement (OIRM) continued its transition from a central
data processing unit to a leader of distributed informa-
tion management. In the evolving distributed system,
bureaus and offices increasingly will use mini- and micro-
computers that are linked to each other and the OIRM
mainframe computer. An important component of this
integrated arrangement is the Collections Information

166

System now under development. In 1987, the OIRM im-
plemented a prototype system in the Division of Fishes at
the National Museum of Natural History.

In a collaborative effort involving OIRM, the Office of
Accounting and Financial Services, and the Office of Per-
sonnel Administration, the Institution’s personnel and
payroll system was successfully transferred to the Na-
tional Finance Center, which is operated by the U.S. De-
partment of Agriculture. This new arrangement will
result in more comprehensive and more accessible infor-
mation, and it will improve internal controls.

The OIRM also began augmenting the capabilities of
the Smithsonian Institution Bibliographic Information
System. Efforts focused on adding archival and research
files, such as the Inventory of American Sculpture, a na-
tional data base being developed by the National Mu-
seum of American Art.

With the creation of a Communications Services Divi-
sion, responsibility for telephone communications was
transferred to the OIRM from the Office of Plant Serv-
ices. Merging of data and telephone communications in
the new division has resulted in improved coordination of
these closely related activities.

The OIRM’s Information Resource Center continued
to expand its curriculum of computer and software
courses, as well as its consultation services. The Institu-
tion-wide long-range information resource management
plan, completed in 1986, was reviewed and updated. An
important component of the planning effort was a study
involving a wide range of Smithsonian staff, who helped
define information needs in areas such as research, collec-
tions management, and public programs.

Office of Personnel Administration

The Office of Personnel Administration devoted much ef-
fort to implementing two major legislative acts—the over-
haul of the Federal Employees Retirement System, which
included establishment of the new Thrift Savings Plan,
and the Immigration Reform and Control Act. Staff
members also reviewed trust fund benefits for employees
and scheduled changes that will be effective in fiscal year
1988. In addition, the office began contract negotiations
in early fall 1987 with Local 400 of the United Food and
Commercial Workers, which holds exclusive bargaining
rights for unionized employees in the Business Manage-
ment Office.
Office of Equal Opportunity

The Office of Equal Opportunity continued special ef-
forts to recruit minorities, women, and disabled persons
for positions in all employment categories. For profes-
sional, administrative, and technical positions, employ-
ment goals for minorities and women were established
for each organizational level within the Institution. The
proportion of professional and administrative positions
filled by these two groups rose to 20.5 percent in 1987,
and employment of disabled persons continued to in-
crease. Additional gains are likely, as the office places a
strong emphasis on outreach activities to inform target
groups and their advocacy organizations of Smithsonian
programs, exhibitions, and career opportunities. The in-
terest and work of the Committee for a Wider Audience
and of the Cultural Education Committee will enhance
these efforts.

In 1987, the office conducted programs on sexual ha-
rassment for the majority of civil service and trust fund
personnel. Sessions focused on defining and identifying
sexual harassment in the workplace and on the responsi-
bilities of managers, supervisors, and employees.

Office of Printing and Photographic Services

Taking, processing, and preserving photographs—in sup-
port of research and publications, for museum collec-
tions, for documenting the Institution’s history, and for
the needs of the public—are the primary responsibilities
of the Office of Printing and Photographic Services. In
addition, the office is the focal point of in-house printing
activities at the Smithsonian.

The office operates a cold storage facility for archiving
photographs. One of the most successful of its kind in
the nation, the five-year-old facility is the respository for
an enormous photographic collection that is growing at a
rate of sixteen thousand to twenty thousand photographs
annually. Plans for expanding the facility were initiated
in 1987. Also during the past year, staff members tested a
new toning solution that could eliminate a suspected car-
cinogen from laboratory processing. Additional tests are
scheduled for 1988.

For the National Museum of American History, the
office produced a videodisc of the Division of Transpor-
tation’s Pullman Collection, Chaney Collection, and
selected subjects related to railroads. The office also pro-
duced two videodiscs containing its files of 35-millimeter
color slides. To stay abreast of new technology, the office

is experimenting with still video systems—to ascertain the
equipment’s value for collection management and to ac-
quaint staff members with electronic still imaging.

In addition to its annual exhibition, “The Year in Pic-
tures: As Seen from the National Museum of American
History,” the office mounted “The Vietnam Veterans
Memorial: A National Experience.” Created for the
Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service, the
exhibition features seventy black-and-white photographs
that capture the powerful and somber presence of the
Vietnam Veterans Memorial in Washington, D.C. It will
be on tour through mid-1989, and a second copy of the
exhibition was produced to meet demand. In addition,
the office prepared the book Reflections on the Wall: The
Vietnam Veterans Memorial, which was published by
Stackpole Press and is in its second printing.

Other Significant Activity

The Office of Procurement and Property Management
provides technical services to ensure timely and cost-ef-
fective acquisitions essential to Smithsonian projects. In
1987, the office’s staff supported such projects as con-
struction of the terrace restaurant at the National Air and
Space Museum, purchases of furnishings and interior
work for the new museum complex in the Quadrangle,
construction of the Tupper Research and Conference
Center at the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute,
and the transfer of the Institution’s personnel and payroll
system.

Besides assessing the impact of new federal laws and
programs on the Smithsonian, the Office of Congres-
sional Liaison helped steer several important Institution-
related initiatives through the legislative process. As the
year drew to a close, an emerging proposal that would
affiliate the Museum of the American Indian and the
Smithsonian was the subject of increasing legislative
activity.

The Management Analysis Office continued to identify
and promote actions to strengthen internal controls. The
office conducted several reviews of Institution units and
activities, including those that might realize cost savings
and efficiency improvements by hiring outside contrac-
tors to perform commercial-type functions traditionally
carried out by Smithsonian staff. It also coordinated the
placement of graduate and postgraduate students in busi-
ness administration, who worked on important manage-
ment projects at the Museum Shops, Visitor Information
and Associates’ Reception Center, and the Office of In-

167
formation Resource Management. The Management
Analysis Office continued to publish a biweekly employee
bulletin, which covers important and timely administra-
tive matters.

As the principal unit responsible for organizing Institu-
tion-wide events and programs, the Office of Special
Events coordinated several hundred activities in 1987, in-
cluding a concentrated series of programs that celebrated
the openings of the Sackler Gallery, the National Mu-
seum of African Art, and the Ripley Center. The office
received nearly one thousand requests from outside or-
ganizations seeking to use Smithsonian facilities, granting
only those that pertained to events closely related to the
Institution’s exhibition and education programs.

The Smithsonian Ombudsman, a position created in
1977, continued to assist employees with job-related
problems, concerns, and complaints. During the past
year, the ombudsman aided about 160 employees with
problems ranging from work-environment concerns to
personnel or payroll matters.

Helping Smithsonian employees and consultants ar-
range the most efficient and economical travel plans is
the responsibility of the Travel Services Office. The office
made travel arrangements for the 1987 Festival of Ameri-
can Folklife, as well as for participants in the growing
number of symposia, conferences, and workshops organ-
ized by the Institution.

The Contracts Office handled negotiations for special-
ized contracts related to trust-funded operations and
helped obtain federal grants and contracts for special
programs and projects. The Office of Audits and Investi-
gations, which reports to the under secretary of the
Smithsonian, performs all internal and external audits
and investigates any suspected fraud, waste, abuse, or
white-collar crime by Institution employees or contrac-
tors. Carried out on a recurring basis, internal audits ex-
amine both federally funded and trust-funded activities.
External audits conducted by the office scrutinize claims,
cost proposals, and cost and pricing data pertaining to
contracts, grants, and other financial agreements.

For the Office of Facilities Services, 1987 highlights
included completion of design and construction of the
Haupt Garden, the interior of the new Quadrangle
museum complex, and numerous exhibits. Under the di-
rection of the Office of Design and Construction, con-
struction of the $15 million terrace restaurant at the
National Air and Space Museum was begun. The office
also awarded the contract for construction of the Tupper
Research and Conference Center at the Smithsonian
Tropical Research Institute, concluded the first phase of

168

the master plan for a base camp to serve the Fred L.
Whipple Observatory, and started the final phase of the
restoration of the exterior of the Arts and Industries
Building.

The Office of Plant Services continued to refine auto-
mated systems to increase staff efficiency. The installa-
tion of a local area computer network has provided the
capability to standardize forms, reports, and maintenance
data for the various divisions. The office also made
strides in its energy conservation programs, reduced
backlogs in requests for trades and crafts services, and
completed analyses of the property records for all build-
ings owned or leased by the Smithsonian. Office staff
members completed building inspections of six museums,
allowing management to set maintenance and repair pri-
orities. The automated facilities-monitoring program pio-
neered by the office continued to attract widespread
attention, and it was the impetus for visits by numerous
directors and conservators from museums around the
United States.

In 1987, the Smithsonian Institution Proprietary Secu-
rity System was fully established, completing a long-term
effort by the Office of Protection Services. With the new
system, the Institution owns all of the security devices in
its facilities, improving control over information about
alarm signals. As part of its efforts to safeguard the Insti-
tution’s personnel, collections, and buildings, the Office
of Protection Services assumed responsibility for all park-
ing programs and developed plans for installing access
controls at major facilities, which will save manpower
and improve security. In other activities, the office spon-
sored successful employee-health programs on smoking
cessation and on Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
It also hosted and coordinated the 1987 International
Conference on Museum Security. The 250 participants
represented 175 U.S. museums and 35 foreign museums.
The conference featured fifty speakers, who addressed
topics ranging from art theft to construction security. A
week-long postconference tour visited museums between
Washington, D.C., and New York City.

Reorganized in January 1987, the Office of Environ-
mental Management and Safety (formerly the Office of
Safety Programs) contains three major divisions: fire pro-
tection, occupational and visitor safety, and environmen-
tal management. During the past year, the office placed
emphasis on measures to ensure compliance with the
growing number of regulations regarding air and water
quality, hazardous waste management, and industrial hy-
giene. It expanded its safety training program for Smith-
sonian employees, while continuing work on asbestos
abatement; improvement of the Institution’s fire-protec-

tion, detection, and supression systems; and elimination

of safety hazards in the physical plant. Also in 1987, the

Office of Environmental Management and Safety began

planning a major outreach program to share its expertise
in museum safety.

The Office of Architectural History and Historic Pres-
ervation completed its catalogue of the architectural
drawings of the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Gar-
den. It also finished its investigation of the architectural
history of the National Zoological Park, which dates
back to 1930. The office oversaw refurbishment of the
Meeting and Regents rooms in the Smithsonian Institu-
tion Building, and it conducted “Perspectives on Preserva-
tion” seminars to acquaint Smithsonian staff with
preservation practices. A major accomplishment of the
office in 1987 was the restoration of the South Tower
Room of the Smithsonian Institution Building. Originally
conceived as a “children’s museum” by former Smithson-
ian Secretary Samuel P. Langley in 1901, the room was
designed by Grace Lincoln Temple, Washington’s first
woman interior designer.

Smithsonian Institution
Women’s Council

Established in 1972, the Smithsonian Institution Women’s
Council identifies and studies the concerns of employees,
advises management on women’s issues, and strives to
improve working conditions. Chaired by Carolyn Jones
and composed of twenty members elected by Smithsonian
staff, the council is particularly concerned with ensuring
the equal treatment of women at the Institution. It holds
open meetings on the second Wednesday of each month
in the Regents Room of the Castle.

Four standing committees—Benefits and Child Care,
Newsletter, Outreach, and Programs—carry out most of
the council’s tasks. Ad hoc committees are created as
needed to further council goals. In 1987, the council con-
tinued its efforts toward establishment of child care cen-
ters at the Smithsonian for the children of Institution
employees. The council cooperates with the newly
formed Child Care Advisory Board, and two members
serve on the board. The council also continued to de-
velop the Women in Museums Network. In addition, the
council redesigned its newsletter, “Four Star,” and revised
its constitution and bylaws.
Smithsonian Internship
Council

Six years old in 1987, the Smithsonian Internship Council
provides a forum for Institution staff working with in-
terns, who number about five hundred annually. Made
up of at least one member from each bureau and office,
the council works to set common standards for internship
programs and to improve coordination of these programs
throughout the Institution.

The council has produced several publications, which
are periodically updated, to assist staff members, interns,
and fellows. Internships and Fellowships lists the major-
ity of internship and fellowship opportunities at the
Smithsonian. The Handbook for Smithsonian Interns de-
scribes procedures to be followed by interns, contains in-
formation about Smithsonian facilities, and lists services
and activities available to interns. Housing Information
for Interns and Fellows lists short-term housing available
in the Washington, D.C., metropolitan area.

The council’s staff assistant registers all interns and
provides identification credentials and orientation. The
assistant also regularly prepares reports about interns and
their respective programs. These services are performed
for both the Institution and the Woodrow Wilson Inter-
national Center for Scholars.

At the beginning of the year, Ralph Rinzler, assistant
secretary for public service, became the council’s spokes-
person to the Smithsonian’s Management Committee.
Also in 1987, the council revised its originating charter,
Office Memorandum 820, to reflect current internship-
program policies and procedures at the Institution. The
council’s Staff Orientation Committee made presentations
to the Joseph Henry Papers project, Smithsonian Institu-
tion Archives, and Office of Architectural History and
Historic Preservation.

The council formed the Intern Information Review
Committee to review and develop standardized materials
describing internship opportunities at the Smithsonian.
An Outreach Committee also was formed. The commit-
tee is developing a central mailing list of universities, ca-
reer centers, community centers, and related
organizations, and it is exploring ways to attract mem-
bers of groups that are underrepresented in Smithsonian
internship programs.

170

Members of the council developed the agenda and
served as instructors for the Office of Museum Programs
workshop “Developing and Managing Effective Intern-
ship Programs,” which was held in April. In July, interns
from various Smithsonian offices were invited to discuss
their experiences and impressions with the council. The
interns’ concern about inadequate financial support un-
derscored the importance of the council’s continuing ef-
forts to establish a central stipend to help support
interns.
DIRECTORATE, OF
INTERNATIONAL
ACTIVITIES

John E. Reinhardt, Director
Directorate of International
Activities

An array of programs monitor, coordinate, and seek to
enhance the Smithsonian’s many and varied international
endeavors. While aimed at furthering cultural and scien-
tific exchanges between the United States and other
nations, International Activities* programs are not con-
fined to endeavors undertaken in other countries. A
major emphasis is to broaden the American public’s
understanding of the histories, cultures, and natural envi-
ronments of regions throughout the world. These efforts
were greatly strengthened in 1987 with the opening of the
International Center in the S. Dillon Ripley Center of the
Smithsonian’s new museum complex. The International
Center’s new home contains the 5,200-square-foot Inter-
national Gallery and conference rooms.

The center’s debut and notable accomplishments of the
Institution’s international activities are described below.

International Center Programs

The new International Center occupies an important
niche in the Institution, bringing to the public the fruits
of Smithsonian research and expertise in explicating the
world’s cultural and natural diversity. A tandem goal of
the center’s programs, planned by center staff in coordi-
nation with other Smithsonian bureaus, is to foster two-
way relationships with scholars and museum profession-
als in other nations. Staff pursue these goals through ex-
hibitions, performances, film showings, lectures,
conferences, seminars, and workshops.

“Generations,” the inaugural exhibition in the Interna-
tional Gallery, exemplifies the aims of the new center’s
programs. Developed with the insights and expertise of
many Smithsonian scholars and featuring specimens from
numerous Institution collections, the provocative exhibi-
tion explains how various societies welcome and nurture
their newborns. An ideal vehicle for demonstrating the
diversity of cultures worldwide, the exhibition explores
the arts, rituals, and folklore of birth and infancy from
ancient times to the present.

Beginning in 1987, a series of public forums, “Face to
Face with the Next Generation,” builds on the themes of
the exhibition. Featuring international experts, these fo-
rums examine the future of the world’s children, address-
ing such issues as health concerns and the role of families
in the education and development of the young. Film

*After Dr. Reinhardt’s retirement on July 31, 1987, the Directorate
became the Office of International Activities reporting to the Assistant
Secretary for Research.

172

programs and participatory activities for families were
also planned.

Another major exhibition, “Tropical Rain Forests: A
Disappearing Treasure,” will open in the International
Gallery in May 1988. The exhibition will focus attention
on the Earth’s most biologically diverse habitat, now be-
seiged by forces of destruction. Organized by the Smith-
sonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service, “Rain
Forests” will be cross-disciplinary, drawing upon and il-
lustrating the research programs of several Smithsonian
bureaus and outside organizations. Like “Generations,”
this exhibition will be complemented by an array of edu-
cational programs while at the International Gallery and
at the twelve other sites on its scheduled tour. Funding
from the MacArthur Foundation will support exhibition
development, as well as educational programs at the
Smithsonian and tour sites.

Fittingly, “Rain Forests” will open during an unprece-
dented research effort that promises to increase under-
standing of the critically important ecosystem. In 1986,
the International Center, the National Museum of Natu-
ral History, and the Man and the Biosphere Program of
the United Nations Educational, Scientific, and Cultural
Organization launched an ambitious program to inven-
tory the flora and fauna of Amazonia. In September
1987, fifteen Smithsonian and eighteen Latin American
scientists began work in the Beni Biosphere Reserve, a
135,000-hectare expanse of subtropical forest near La
Paz, Bolivia. This project and the others to follow will
provide the methodology for inventorying and studying
the millions of plant and animal species, many of them
unknown, that are threatened with extinction because of
development pressures. An important component of the
program is training of biologists, other scientists, and
students from other countries. The first workshops were
held in Bolivia and Peru during the fall of 1987.

International Exchanges and the Smithsonian
Foreign Currency Program

In the second year of the Smithsonian’s new International
Exchange Program, nine projects—workshops, training
courses, and other short-term activities—were initiated,
involving a total of five Smithsonian bureaus and scho-
lars from eleven countries. Moreover, the Suzanne Lie-
bers Erickson memorial fund supported a second year of
exchange visits between Smithsonian staff members and
Danish scholars, museum professionals, and students.
Awards from the Smithsonian Foreign Currency Pro-
gram in 1987 supported research in Burma, Pakistan, Yu-
goslavia, and India. In some countries, the United States
held blocked currencies derived from past sales of agri-
cultural commodities under Public Law 480; in others,
post-Public Law 480 programs made local currencies
available. Since 1965, the Smithsonian has administered
the disposition of blocked currencies to support studies
by researchers from the Smithsonian and other U.S. insti-
tutions. Research supported last year included studies of
Indian drumming theory, archaeological and paleontolog-
ical exploration in India and Pakistan, and anthropologi-
cal investigations of Yugoslavia’s island populations.

Office of Service and Protocol

The role of the Office of Service and Protocol (OSP) is to
attend to the formal and logistical details involved in in-
ternational exchanges between the Smithsonian and for-
eign governments and institutions. For example, the
office assisted in the preparation of formal protocols of
cooperation between the Institution and governmental
agencies of the Soviet Union and Iraq—both signed dur-
ing the past year.

The OSP also provides a variety of services to Smith-
sonian bureaus. In 1987, it arranged visits to the Smith-
sonian for 149 foreign officials and scholars and provided
documentation and guidance to 150 foreign exchange
visitors. The office also obtained ninety-six passports and
1,117 foreign visas for Smithsonian staff members and
grant recipients. As part of its responsibilities, the OSP
carried out a variety of immigration-related services to
the Institution, including implementation of personnel
procedures mandated by the Immigration and Reform
and Control Act of 1986. In addition, the office devel-
oped procedures for emergency evacuation of personnel
from field research sites.

The second edition of the OSP’s Profile of the Interna-
tional Activities of the Smithsonian was prepared in 1987.
Twice as large as the first edition, the new volume de-
scribes the Institution’s foreign research and exchange ac-
tivities during 1985 and 1986.

The office served as the Institution’s liaison in planning
for several major international projects. It began prepara-
tions for the Smithsonian’s possible participation in the
1990 U.S. Festival of Indonesia, and it participated in
government-level discussions concerning the Bicentennial
of the 1787 U.S.—Morocco Treaty of Peace and Friend-
ship. The OSP also continued to coordinate Smithsonian
activities related to the 1988 Australian Bicentennial, as

well as those stemming from Secretary Adams’s initiatives
for exchange programs with Japan and the Soviet Union.

Exchanges and cooperative programs with the Soviet
Union increased during the past year, and the number is
likely to grow. In November 1986, the exhibition “Rus-
sia, The Land, The People: Russian Painting, 1850-1910”
opened at the Renwick Gallery. During an April 1987 trip
to Moscow, Secretary Adams signed a protocol of negoti-
ation with the Soviet Ministry of Culture. The OSP as-
sisted in concluding arrangements for the upcoming
exhibition “Crossroads of Continents,” which will feature
cultural objects from the Soviet Union, Canada, and the
United States. The Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture
Garden and other Smithsonian bureaus are exploring op-
portunities for cooperative exhibitions with the Soviet
Union.

In addition to the Soviet Union, Secretary Adams vis-
ited Israel, Japan, and Mexico as part of an effort to
develop long-term exchange programs with those
nations. Japanese officials followed up with a visit to the
Smithsonian in September 1987.

Also during the past year, the OSP collaborated with
the Office of Interdisciplinary Studies in planning an in-
ternational colloquium on “Science, Ethics, and Food,”
which took place at the Smithsonian in October 1987.

Office of Publications Exchange

Since it was established by Joseph Henry, the first Secre-
tary of the Smithsonian, the Office of Publications Ex-
change (OPE) has been an important link between
scholarly communities in the United States and those in
other countries. The office sends books, journal articles,
and other scholarly materials published in the United
States to interested foreign agencies and organizations,
which, in turn, send their materials to OPE for distribu-
tion here. In 1987, OPE handled 104,720 packages from
149 domestic institutions for transmission abroad and
25,200 packages from 220 foreign institutions for distri-
bution in the United States.

Columbus Quincentenary Planning

Observance of the five-hundredth anniversary of Colum-
bus’s first voyage to the New World in 1492 will span the
entire Institution and will include contributions from
countries on both sides of the Atlantic Ocean. Rather
than celebrating the anniversary of the “discovery,” the

173
Institution’s commemoration will highlight five centuries
of experience in the Western Hemisphere from the per-
spective of continuing encounters between peoples.
Through a broad array of exhibitions and programs for
the general public and scholars, a much more complex
picture of the relationships that evolved between indige-
nous peoples of the Americas and European groups will
be provided.

Although the anniversary is five years away, planning
for the observance progressed significantly in 1987.
Bureaus, which are developing their own programs
within broad outlines established by the Institution and
the Quincentenary Program, have already announced the
themes of their exhibitions and related programs, a few
of which are briefly described below.

Through a permanent exhibition, temporary exhibits,
and related programs, the National Museum of American
History will explore the social and economic relation-
ships between European and indigenous populations dur-
ing the seventeenth century and the early part of the
eighteenth century. The National Museum of Natural
History has begun work on a major temporary exhibi-
tion, “Seeds of Change,” that will examine exchanges of
plants, animals, and even diseases between countries and
hemispheres. The Smithsonian Institution Traveling Ex-
hibition Service is developing a traveling exhibition on
the iconography of Christopher Columbus, and the Na-
tional Air and Space Museum is planning a world atlas
composed of photographs taken by satellites. The Coop-
er-Hewitt Museum plans to illustrate the influence of Na-
tive American design on European and American
decorative arts through an exhibition of ceramics, tex-
tiles, metalwork, and architectural designs.

Programs planned for the International Center will
concentrate on the cultures of past and present peoples of
Latin America. Beginning in 1987 and continuing through
1993, the International Center will organize scholarly
seminars and conferences, as well as symposia, lectures,
exhibitions, and performances for the general public.
During the past year, planning began for the first in a
series of Quincentenary conferences intended to foster
understanding of Latin American cultures, which will
guide development of public programs for the anniver-
sary observance. The initial conference, on “Music of the
Americas,” will examine themes of exploration and en-
counter expressed in music as it evolved after 1492.

In September 1987, the National Museum of Natural
History and the International Center sponsored “Ameri-
cans before Columbus: Ice Age Origins,” a public sympo-
sium focusing on the first human migrations to the New

174

World. With the Office of Public Affairs, the center also
sponsored a press briefing to acquaint Hispanic journal-
ists with the Smithsonian’s Quincentenary plans. In addi-
tion, an International Center reception honored visiting
members of the Spanish and Italian Quincentenary com-
mission and of the United States Christopher Columbus
Quincentenary Jubilee Commission.

Other Events

Several interdisciplinary conferences addressing issues of
international concern were held in 1987. One Smithson-
ian-sponsored conference examined “commons” of South
Asia. Representatives of the Smithsonian, Social Science
Research Council, and American Council of Learned So-
cieties discussed a long-term program for studying the
human and ecological dynamics of South Asia’s commu-
nally owned tracts. Participants decided to begin with a
case study of the Sundarbans of Bangladesh, a well-stud-
ied area. A follow-up workshop, to be held in November
1987, will review the current knowledge of the Sundar-
bans and assess the potential for a cooperative field
project.

Planning of an international conference on studies of
the material cultures of Africa progressed. Funding from
the Rockefeller Foundation was secured. Scholars from
sub-Saharan Africa, North America, and Europe will
meet in Bellagio, Italy, in May 1988 to explore the study
of material products in relation to the societies, politics,
and cultures in Africa.

Final details were completed for a series of small exhi-
bitions to be held in the International Center’s conference
rooms. The first, a photographic show sponsored with
the Council of American Overseas Research Centers, will
be “Sojourners and Settlers: Yemeni Workers at Home
and Abroad,” opening in October 1987.
MEMBERSHIP AND
DEVELOPMENT

James McK. Symington, Director
Office of Membership and
Development

The Office of Membership and Development is responsi-
ble for fund-raising activities that support Institution-
wide projects, and it assists bureaus as they mount pro-
grams to achieve their individual development goals.
While some bureaus use the full range of the office’s serv-
ices, others are evaluating their private funding needs and
have begun recruitment of their own development offi-
cers, continuing a pattern of decentralization begun sev-
eral years ago. The National Museum of Natural
History, for example, conducted a comprehensive man-
agement review and has organized several task forces to
implement the study’s recommendations, including sev-
eral related to fund raising; and the National Zoological
Park selected a development officer, the first hired by a
Smithsonian bureau.

In 1987, as a new initiative, all bureaus and offices
prepared annual development plans, detailing their pri-
vate funding needs and goals. For the Smithsonian’s
Management Committee, these plans will permit more
systematic evaluation of the entire Institution’s funding
needs from both federal and private sources. This infor-
mation also will assist the Development Committee,
which was formed in 1986, in setting fund-raising priori-
ties, and it will help the Office of Membership and De-
velopment coordinate activities across the Institution.

Accomplishments of selected development efforts in
1987 are detailed below.

Highlights

The year ended with a grand series of events marking the
opening of the new museum complex. The celebratory
activities highlighted a major milestone in the Institution’s
development and provided another opportunity to thank
the more than thirty-eight thousand individual, founda-
tion, and corporation donors whose contributions made
the complex a reality. The National Museum of African
Art, Arthur M. Sackler Gallery, S$. Dillon Ripley Center,
and Enid A. Haupt Garden greatly enhance the Institu-
tion’s service to the public and are impressive reminders
of the importance of private donors to furthering the
Smithsonian’s goals.

The past year also marked the successful completion
of the campaign to fund construction of the new Visitor
Information Center. The Pew Memorial Trust awarded a
grant of $1 million and the Kresge Foundation issued a
challenge grant of $500,000. Contributing Members and
the National Associate Board—together with the Morris

176

and Gwendolyn Cafritz Foundation and the James Smith-
son Society—responded generously with gifts and pledges
exceeding $1.6 million. Construction of the center will
begin in fall 1987.

With major grants from the John D. and Catherine T.
MacArthur Foundation, the Smithsonian Institution
Traveling Exhibition Service will mount an exhibition
that focuses on the alarming demise of tropical rain for-
ests. Scheduled to open in May 1988, the exhibition will
be the second to open in the International Gallery of the
new Ripley Center and, afterward, will tour the country.
Aid from the foundation also is supporting development
of local educational programs.

Ongoing efforts to obtain private funding for two ma-
jor exhibitions on information technology—“The Infor-
mation Revolution” at the National Museum of
American History and “Computers and Flight” at the Na-
tional Air and Space Museum—reaped major contribu-
tions. Principal new donors included EDS, the Digital
Equipment Corporation, Unisys, Intelsat, the Xerox Cor-
poration, and Molex.

Programs and exhibitions in the arts also were the ben-
eficiaries of private gifts and donations. The Cigna Cor-
poration is supporting “American Colonial Portraits:
1700-1776,” a major exhibition scheduled to open in Oc-
tober 1987 at the National Portrait Gallery. Credit Suisse
and the Xerox Corporation will help fund a major exhi-
bition on Swiss sculptor and painter Alberto Giacometti
at the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden. A ma-
jor grant from the Andrew Mellon Foundation will fur-
ther efforts by the Archives of American Art to produce a
retrospective catalogue of its collection. Contributions
from the Armand Hammer Foundation have fostered a
program for the exchange of art exhibitions between the
United States and the Soviet Union. The initial phases of
the National Museum of American Art’s project to inven-
tory all American sculpture are being supported by the
Henry Luce Foundation. In addition to underwriting pro-
duction of an orientation film for the new Visitor Infor-
mation Center, the Cafritz Foundation continued its
long-time support for the Institution by contributing to
the purchase of a 1785 portrait of Benjamin Franklin for
the National Portrait Gallery.

The Clark-Winchcole Foundation, another long-time
benefactor, awarded a grant to aid development of the
planned Smithsonian Child Care Center. The Martin-
Marietta Corporation completed its three-year pledge of
support for the Space History Chair at the National Air
and Space Museum. “A Material World,” a major exhibi-
tion scheduled to open at the National Museum of Amer-
ican History in April 1988, will benefit from a major
grant from the DuPont Corporation.

Among the new corporate donors in 1987 was All Nip-
pon Airways, which supported the exhibition of Gary
Larson cartoons at the National Museum of Natural
History and underwrote part of the new “Invertebrate
Exhibit” at the National Zoological Park. The Smithson-
ian’s symposia commemorating the Bicentennial of the
Constitution are made possible by grants from a number
of corporations and foundations. Organized by the Office
of Interdisciplinary Studies, one symposium was held in
May 1987; another is scheduled for March 1988.

Largely because of the retirement of Cooper—Hewitt
Museum Director Lisa Taylor, the capital campaign to
fund expansion of the New York City museum was sus-
pended temporarily, resuming when a new director is ap-
pointed. Meanwhile, work progressed on a fund-raising
campaign to support acquisitions by the National Mu-
seum of African Art.

Staff Changes

In 1987, the office increased its research and recordkeep-
ing staff by two, an expansion that will broaden support
for development activities undertaken by Smithsonian
bureaus. The staff's efforts will benefit from a new com-
puterized recordkeeping system that the office is
implementing.

Ilene Rubin resigned from her position as development
officer assigned to the Archives of American Art. Devel-
opment officer Salvatore Cilella, Jr., resigned to become
director of the Columbia Museum in South Carolina.

James Smithson Society

Founded in 1977 as the highest level of the Contributing
Membership of the Smithsonian Associates, the James
Smithson Society has given more than $2 million to sup-
port Institution projects. In 1987, the contributions of
Annual Members allowed the society to make awards to-
taling $265,217, which advanced the efforts of bureaus
and offices throughout the Smithsonian. Projects benefit-
ing from these awards are listed at the end of this section.

Annual Meeting

The Smithson Society’s annual meeting was held on Sep-
tember 26 in conjunction with the fall meeting of the
National Board of the Smithsonian Associates. Society
and board members were given special tours of the Ar-
thur M. Sackler Gallery, National Museum of African
Art, and Enid A. Haupt Garden, followed by a luncheon
held in their honor at the official residence of Japanese
Ambassador H. E. Nobuo Matsunaga.

At a formal dinner at the National Air and Space Mu-
seum, the Smithson Society Founder Medalists were an-
nounced. Herbert R. Axelrod, scientist and publisher of
pet and music books, was recognized for his major con-
tributions to the National Museums of American History
and Natural History, which included creation of the
Leonard P. Schultz Fund in support of ichthyology,
republication of the rare nineteenth-century Atlas Ich-
thyologique, and the long-term loan of the Axelrod
Stradivarius quartet for special performances. Founder
Medals also were awarded to Phillip and Patricia Frost,
of Miami Beach, Florida, for the gift of their extraordi-
nary collection of American abstract art to the National
Museum of American Art. Medalist Herbert Waide Hem-
phill, Jr., a founder of the Museum of American Folk Art
in New York City, was honored for the gift of his out-
standing collection of American folk art to the Museum
of American Art.

Awards

In 1987, the Smithson Society awarded grants to support
the following projects.

National Museum of African Art: Acquisition of an ak-

ua’ba figure by the Asante people of Ghana.

Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden: Purchase of

projectors and screen.

National Portrait Gallery: Purchase of a portrait by Gil-
bert Stuart.

177
Office of the Committee for a Wider Audience: Paid and
public service advertising aimed at groups underrepre-
sented at Smithsonian programs.

Smithsonian Institution Press: Production of A New View
of the Castle by Edwards Park.

National Air and Space Museum: Purchase of a prefabri-
cated structure for storage of Movietone footage and
transfer of aerospace films to videotape.

Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory: Production of an
introductory videotape on the Whipple Observatory and
conversion of a three-dimensional map of the galaxies
from videotape into graphics.

National Museum of Natural History: Development of a
computerized inventory of the Department of Anthropol-
ogy’s North American ethnology collections; continued
operation and staffing of the “Paleo Prep Lab”; produc-
tion of a mural-size oil painting for the exhibition on
micro-ecosystems; and production of an introductory
film for the exhibition “Crossroads of Continents,”
scheduled to open in September 1988.

National Zoological Park: Study of the “Smokey the
Bear” exhibit to identify ways to improve the welfare and
exhibitry of bears in zoos.

Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute: Reopening of a
road to Soberania National Park, providing needed ac-
cess for researchers.

178

National Board of the
Smithsonian Associates

Offering points of contact with the Institution’s broad
constituency, the National Board of the Smithsonian As-
sociates promotes the Institution’s research and educa-
tional activities and its acquisition programs. The
National Board meets semiannually for an update on
Smithsonian activities and on issues confronting the
Institution.

At its spring meeting, held in Tucson, Arizona, the
board toured the Smithsonian’s Whipple Observatory on
Mount Hopkins. Staff members gave a thorough briefing
on the observatory’s programs and demonstrated its mul-
timirror telescope. Earlier, members toured Biosphere II,
a project directed by Ed Bass, son of board member
Perry Bass. Business matters included a discussion with
Smithsonian Secretary Adams to learn more about cur-
rent issues and election of new members. Elected to the
board were Mrs. Cummins Catherwood, Bryn Mawr,
Pennsylvania; the Honorable Ulric St. Clair Haynes, Jr.,
New York City; Mr. John W. Morrison, Minneapolis,
Minnesota; Mrs. John D. Rockefeller, 1V, Washington,
D.C.; and Mr. T. Evans Wyckoff, Seattle, Washington.
Following the meeting, several members joined Secretary
Adams on a study tour of the Southwest. In Phoenix,
Arizona, the first tour stop, the group was hosted at a
dinner at the Heard Museum by board members Mr. and
Mrs. Jack S. Parker, Mrs. Gay F. Wray, and the Honor-
able and Mrs. John R. Norton III.

The National Board’s autumn meeting, traditionally
held in Washington, D.C., featured a preview tour of the
National Museum of African Art and the Arthur M.
Sackler Gallery on September 26. Japanese Ambassador
H. E. Nobuo Matsunaga hosted a post-tour luncheon for
members of the board and James Smithson Society. At
the annual National Board—Smithson Society dinner, held
in the National Air and Space Museum, board members
viewed a display describing projects recently funded by
the society.

The following day’s activities included discussions with
Secretary Adams at the National Portrait Gallery, provid-
ing an opportunity for members to become better ac-
quainted with the Smithsonian. Finally, the members
attended the Regents black-tie reception celebrating the
official opening of the new museum complex.

Smithsonian National
Associate Program

Serving more than two million members, the Smithsonian
National Associate Program, begun in 1970, offers inno-
vative educational opportunities throughout the nation,
expanding the boundaries of the Institution to encompass
all fifty states. The program’s far-flung membership is
kept abreast of the Institution’s activities through Smmith-
sonian magazine. This continuing awareness and oppor-
tunities for personal involvement with the Institution
through the diverse range of activities organized by the
program in cooperation with other bureaus have fostered
a strong national constituency for the Smithsonian’s
work.

A sampling of the activities and accomplishments of
the program’s three units is presented below.

Contributing Membership

The Contributing Membership provides unrestricted
funds to support Smithsonian research, education, and
outreach programs. This financial support is a combina-
tion of annual membership dues and corporate matching
funds. In addition, Contributing Members have re-
sponded generously to special fund-raising appeals to
support specific projects. Participation is through six lev-
els of annual membership: Supporting ($60; available
only to members who live outside the Washington, D.C.,
metropolitan area); Donor ($125); Sponsoring ($300);
Sustaining ($600); Patron ($1,200); and the James Smith-
son Society ($2,000).

Since it was established in 1976, the Contributing
Membership program has grown steadily, counting
44,800 members in 1987, or 8 percent more than the pre-
vious year. Eighty-nine percent of this total reside outside
the Washington, D.C., area. Total membership income
also continues to increase. The $3.6 million in net gain to
the Institution in 1987 topped the 1986 total by 61 per-
cent. More than $1 million of the 1987 total came from
Contributing Members’ strong response to a special ap-
peal for funds to support construction of the new Visitor
Information Center in the Castle.

The Institution expresses its appreciation to the Con-
tributing Membership through a variety of benefits and
special programs. In 1987, members were invited to at-
tend ten exhibition previews and receptions, including
“Engines of Change: The American Industrial Revolu-
tion, 1790-1860,” at the National Museum of American
History; “Portraits of Nature: Paintings of Robert Bate-
man,” at the National Museum of Natural History;
“Modern American Realism: The Sara Roby Collection”

Contributing Members of the Smithsonian National Associate
Program enjoy the Michigan gospel singers’ performance during
the special membership evening at the Michigan Program of the
1987 Festival of American Folklife, July 1, 1987.

and “John La Farge” at the National Museum of Ameri-
can Art; “American Art Deco,” at the Renwick Gallery;
and “Berlin 1900-1933: Architecture and Design,” at the
Cooper-Hewitt Museum. Among the other special events
held for Contributing Members were private tours of the
Arthur M. Sackler Gallery, National Museum of African
Art, and International Gallery, as well as a “Victorian
Evening” in the Enid A. Haupt Garden.

Contributing Members also received several compli-
mentary books in 1987, in addition to the Smithsonian
Engagement Calendar. Those who live within the Wash-
ington, D.C., area are automatically enrolled in the Resi-
dent Associate Program. Members in outlying regions
receive Smithsonian Institution Research Reports, pub-
lished three times a year by the Office of Public Affairs to
highlight special research and education projects under-
way. And in 1987, for the first time, members outside
metropolitan Washington received a Smithsonian poster
as a new membership benefit.

Members again participated in the annual “Smithson-
ian Treasures” tour, an exclusive, behind-the-scenes visit
to the Institution. The five-day tour was designed by the
Associates Travel Program. Other benefits are offered in
conjunction with the Lecture and Seminar Program,
which organizes activities in communities across the na-

179

tion. Contributing Members are offered priority registra-
tion, complimentary tickets to one lecture, and often an
invitation to an informal reception following the lecture.

Lecture and Seminar Program

The Lecture and Seminar Program, twelve years old in
1987, brings the Smithsonian’s research and its collections
to the National Associates and to interested members of
the general public in about twenty U.S. communities
each year. Lectures, seminars, and hands-on workshops
are led by Smithsonian curators, scientists, and research
associates.

During the past year, more than 630,000 families were
invited to attend activities organized by the program.
Events were held for the first time in Fort Worth and
Lubbock, Texas; Jacksonville, Florida; Lake County,
Illinois; Marin and Sonoma counties and Los Angeles,
California; Topeka, Kansas; Madison, Wisconsin; Pleas-
antville, New York; and Greenwich, Connecticut. Build-
ing on the successes of previous years, the program
returned to Midland and Houston, Texas; Gainesville,
Florida; Boone, North Carolina; Oshkosh Wisconsin;
and Oakland, California. In four communities—T opeka,
Boone, Oshkosh, and Madison—mayoral proclamations
were issued in honor of the visit by Smithsonian
representatives.

The success of activities organized by the Lecture and
Seminar Program depends in part on collaborations with
local and national organizations. In 1987, the program
collaborated with 127 local organizations, including mu-
seums, universities, zoological parks, and botanical gar-
dens. National groups that cosponsored activities
included United Airlines; the National Trust for Historic
Preservation; the American Association of Retired Per-
sons; Sigma Xi, the Scientific Research Society; and the
World Wildlife Fund.

In cooperation with other bureaus, the program devel-
oped thirty-two new lectures and seminars for 1987.
Among these were “Living and Working in Space,”
taught by Lillian Kozloski, research assistant in the Space
Science and Exploration Department of the National Air
and Space Museum; “Roots of Afro-American Culture,
1780-1820,” taught by Fath Davis Ruffins, historian in
the Department of Social and Cultural History at the Na-
tional Museum of American History; and “Civil War
America,” taught by two National Portrait Gallery staff
members—William Stapp, curator of photographs, and
Wendy Wick Reaves, curator of prints.

180

Several intensive week-long seminars, an activity begun
in 1986, were held during the past year. Examining topics
ranging from the past and future of space exploration to
Native Americans in U.S. history, these in-depth pro-
grams were held in Oshkosh, Wisconsin, and at Appala-
chian State University in Boone, North Carolina, and the
University of Wisconsin—Madison.

Toronto, Canada, was the site of the program’s 1987
international series. In celebration of the Royal Ontario
Museum’s seventy-fifth anniversary, the program offered
a five-day series of activities. Future international pro-
grams include a return to Tokyo, Japan, scheduled for
October 1987. The program, which follows a successful
debut in 1985, is being cosponsored by the MYC Cultural
Exchange Institute of Japan. Events during the coming
year are also planned for Australia and Denmark.

Other facets of the program included several week-long
seminars held in Washington, D.C. In these seminars,
Associates from throughout the United States study with
Smithsonian curators and participate in behind-the-scenes
tours of the museums. Topics explored in the twelve sem-
inars offered in 1987 ranged from post-World War II avi-
ation to photojournalism.

Associates Travel Program

The Associates Travel Program organizes educational
tours that mirror the many and varied interests of the
Institution. In 1987, a total of 7,000 National Associates
participated in the ror foreign and domestic tours offered
by the program. And since the program’s inception in
1975, more than 73,000 Associates have embarked on
program-organized journeys. The educational value of
each outing is enhanced by carefully chosen study lead-
ers. One or more Smithsonian staff members also are
present on each trip.

Foreign Study Tours span the globe, offering a wide
variety of destinations and many unique learning experi-
ences. For example, a tour focusing on the performing
arts of Russia and featuring back-stage visits was one of
the new program offerings in 1987. Also introduced dur-
ing the past year was a tour of national parks in Kenya
and Tanzania, where Associates observed African wild-
life, met with animal researchers, and discussed conserva-
tion efforts; and a tour of Malaysia, Singapore, and
Borneo examined the islands’ history, arts, flora, and
fauna, and included a stay in a longhouse in Sarawak.

Associates also retraced historic sea routes and learned
about early explorations as they sailed on the four-
masted barque Sea Cloud on her first Pacific voyage. On
their journey, Associates traveled through the Panama
Canal en route to the Galapagos archipelago and then
embarked on an eight-day sail to Easter Island, where
they studied the mystical colossal figures that date back
to ancient times. In another Pacific expedition, partici-
pants traveled on the cruise ship I/liria from Papua, New
Guinea, to the Solomon Islands, the New Hebrides, and
Fiji. The tour featured lectures on the region’s natural
and cultural history and on World War II battles fought
in the area.

On other study voyages, Associates explored history
and geology while visiting Iceland, Greenland, and Cana-
da’s Maritime Provinces, and during a cruise on the
Rhone River, they learned about French art and litera-
ture. A trip from Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, around Cape
Horn, and to Santiago, Chile, examined the history and
current politics of Latin America.

Among the thirteen tours offered in China were the
popular “China by Train,” “Decorative Arts and An-
tiques in China,” and “Hiking China’s Sacred Peaks.” As-
sociates also explored Tibet on a tour that included an
overland trip to Nepal. Other travelers flew to Japan,
cruised to the Soviet Union and then boarded the Trans-
Siberian Express for a trip to Moscow, with a stop in
either Outer Mongolia or Soviet Central Asia.

A Contributing Member of the Smithsonian National Associate
Program studies objects included in the exhibition “Engines of
Change: The American Industrial Revolution, 1790-1860,”
during a special membership evening at the National Museum
of American History, December 1, 4, and 7, 1986.

Countryside programs in 1987 offered the opportunity
to live in small towns in Hungary, England, Italy, Switz-
erland, Austria, or France. Residential seminars included
programs on Austrian history and art in Vienna and Salz-
burg, as well as on Japanese art, music, and culture in
Kyoto. And at the ninth annual Oxford/Smithsonian
Seminar, Associates could choose from a variety of spe-
cially designed courses in the arts and sciences.

The forty-four Domestic Study Tours offered in 1987
provided Associates with numerous opportunities to ex-
perience the natural wonders and regional heritage of
America. Of the two new domestic cruises, which in-
creased the total number of offerings to five, one featured
visits to historic ports between Philadelphia, Pennsyl-
vania, and Savannah, Georgia, and the other, led by Por-
ter Kier, former director of the National Museum of
Natural History, introduced Associates to marine biology
on a voyage to the Virgin Islands.

Trips on land covered virtually all parts of the United
States. One of the most popular destinations was Santa
Fe, New Mexico, the site of two different programs on
Spanish and Indian cultures. Secretary Adams led a group
of members of the National Board of Smithsonian Asso-
clates on a study tour of the Southwest.

Tours of National Parks, which in 1987 included
Bryce, Zion, Arches, and Canyonlands, remained popu-
lar. A novel offering was a journey on horseback over a
stretch of the Lewis and Clark trail in Idaho, which was
led by Herman Viola, director of Quincentenary Pro-
grams at the National Museum of Natural History.

Special weekend programs at the Institution—including
the fifteenth annual “Christmas at the Smithsonian Week-
end”—were organized for National Associates and Na-
tional Air and Space Associates. In addition, more than
three thousand associates participated in the “Washing-
ton Anytime Weekend,” organized in cooperation with
the Visitor Information and Associates’ Reception Cen-
ter. The program includes a behind-the-scenes tour of the
Castle and offers guidance and information to visiting
associates.

181
Smithsonian Resident
Associate Program

Emulated by museums and universities in the United
States and throughout the world, the Smithsonian Resi-
dent Associate Program (RAP) directly involves residents
of the Washington, D.C., area in the activities and inter-
ests of the Institution. Through the program’s activities,
the individuals and families comprising RAP’s fifty-eight
thousand memberships and other members of the public
can partake more fully in the many cultural and educa-
tional opportunities afforded by the national museums.
The program’s collaborations with international, na-
tional, and local organizations enhance the quality of its
diverse offerings, and through arrangements with the
C-SPAN network, Voice of America, and WORLDNET,
many RAP activities are made available to growing na-
tional and international audiences.

In 1987, RAP offered nearly 1,800 innovative activi-
ties—performances, lectures, films, tours, and others—
that were attended by a total of more than 260,000 peo-
ple. Also during the past year, the program moved its
offices to the new S. Dillon Ripley Center, where it has
access to the Education Center’s classrooms and audito-
rium, which RAP manages for the Institution. And in
September 1987, The Associate, the monthly publication
that describes upcoming RAP activities, was redesigned,
completely changing its fifteen-year-old look.

RAP continued to boast a high membership retention
rate. Despite a dip during the first five months of the year
because of suspension of parking privileges, nearly 80
percent of Resident Associates renewed their membership
in 1987. Almost entirely self-supporting, the program re-
ceived small subsidies from the Institution for Discovery
Theater and performing arts activities. In addition, grants
from local and national foundations and corporations en-
abled RAP to carry out special activities and outreach
projects that would not have been possible otherwise.

To commemorate the opening of the new Smithsonian
museum complex, RAP commissioned Washington,
D.C., artist Sam Gilliam to create a silk-screen serigraph
poster celebrating the new facility. Proceeds from sales of
the limited-edition serigraph will help support “Discover
Graphics,” the annual program for area art students and
teachers.

Cooperation within the Institution

Program members meet regularly with the representatives
of other Smithsonian bureaus and offices, as well as the
Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars, to

discuss concepts for new activities. From these collabora-

182

Roberta Peters at the Smithsonian in a stunning performance
marking National Arts Week. (Photograph by Robert deMilt)

tions comes a rich variety of programs in history, the
arts, and the sciences. In 1987, RAP cosponsored activi-
ties with all museums and many other units of the
Smithsonian.

Several examples reveal the diversity of these coopera-
tive undertakings. With the National Museum of Ameri-
can History, RAP organized four chamber music series.
RAP and the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden
cosponsored the 20th Century Consort and three lec-
tures—“An Evening with Nancy Graves,” “Morris Louis:
25 Years Later,” and “An Evening with Gene Siskel and
Roger Brown.” Two concerts and a lecture were devel-
oped to complement exhibitions at the Renwick Gallery,
and a lecture by James Rosenquist enhanced an exhibi-
tion of the artist’s work at the National Museum of
American Art. A course jointly sponsored by the program
and the National Portrait Gallery featured lectures by six
noted American artists and authors.

At the National Air and Space Museum, cooperative
endeavors included a lecture by U.S. Senator and former
astronaut John Glenn and a presentation by Dick Rutan
and Jeana Yeager, pilot and copilot of the Voyager, the
only aircraft to circle the globe without refueling. A vari-
ety of activities is planned and carried out with the Na-
tional Museum of Natural History, including lectures and
courses for adults and classes and tours for children. Res-
ident Associates’ collaborations with the Smithsonian En-
vironmental Research Center in Edgewater, Maryland,
resulted in several naturalist tours of the Chesapeake Bay
and coastal forests. In addition, RAP and the Office of
Horticulture organized several tours of the Enid A.
Haupt Garden, and with the Arthur M. Sackler Gallery,
a special viewing of the gallery’s inaugural exhibitions
was offered to Resident Associates.

RAP Director Janet Solinger continued to serve as sen-
ior adviser to the Kellogg Project of the Office of Mu-
seum Programs, and she spoke frequently at the office’s
workshops. Collaborations with the Museum Shops in-
cluded special “shopping parties” for RAP members, as
well as book-signing receptions following lectures.

Outreach

Through scholarships and special projects, RAP actively
seeks to broaden the audience it serves, involving groups
traditionally underrepresented in Smithsonian activities.
The annual “Discover Graphics” program, for example,
provides free etching and lithography training on Smith-
sonian presses for nearly two hundred talented art stu-
dents and their teachers, all from Metropolitan Area
public high schools. The program culminates with a jur-
ied exhibition of the students’ prints at the National Mu-
seum of American History. In 1987, the Gene Davis
Printmaking Studio, the new home of Discover Graphics,
officially opened in the Arts and Industries Building.

Scholarships to Young Associate and adult courses
were awarded, through the public school system, to
sixty-one children and forty-nine adults who live in the
inner city. Under the auspices of the Smithsonian Career
Awareness Program, twenty inner-city youths served as
teacher assistants at the Young Associate Summer Camp.

Programs designed to appeal to the older citizens, who
are contacted through retirement centers and other or-
ganizations for senior citizens, include “Tuesday Morn-
ings at the Smithsonian,” a weekly lecture series,
complete with continental breakfast. In 1987, twenty-
eight lectures by Smithsonian scholars attracted sixty-
eight hundred participants.

RAP continued its series of “Singles Evenings” at the
Grand Salon of the Renwick Gallery. Widely publicized
and widely emulated, the series featured lectures by
Smithsonian scholars, followed by champagne and hors
d oeuvre receptions. More than thirty-five hundred peo-
ple attended the series.

The annual Kite Festival was again successful. The
twenty-first festival, open to members and the general

public, attracted twelve hundred participants and specta-
tors to the Mall in March.

Outside Collaborations

Nearly eight thousand people learned about conservation
and wildlife matters in the fourteenth annual lecture se-
ries cosponsored by RAP, the Audubon Naturalist Soci-
ety of the Central Atlantic States, and the Friends of the
National Zoo. In 1987, RAP collaborated with a variety
of other organizations and institutions, with the aim of
developing innovative educational programs. Collaborat-
ing organizations included the National Geographic Soci-
ety; National Gallery of Art; Organization of American
States; Filmfest, D.C.; Meridian House International;
Washington, D.C., Chapter of the American Institute of
Architects; Urban Land Institute; American Society of In-
terior Designers; American Architectural Foundation; St.
Elizabeth’s Hospital; Council for the Advancement and
Support of Education; Washington Project for the Arts;
Levine School of Music; and major museums in New
York, Baltimore, Philadelphia, and Texas.

With AMTRAK and CSX, the program produced a
very popular series of railroad tours, and The New
Yorker magazine underwrote the enormously successful
course “The Best of The New Yorker.”

Foreign organizations that collaborated with RAP in
1987 included the Embassy of Argentina, for the film se-
ries “Emerging Argentine Cinema,” and the Japan Infor-
mation and Culture Center, for “Children’s Day at the
Embassy of Japan.” The embassies of Turkey, Yugosla-
via, and Brazil and the Office of the Commissioner for
Hong Kong Commercial Affairs cosponsored RAP
courses.

Programs

During the past year, RAP offered programs tailored to
interests ranging from art to zoology at sites as varied as
antebellum mansions, trains, and coastal marshes. Some
courses focused on the ancient past, as revealed by ar-
chaeological research, while others contemplated the fu-
ture of the universe, as deduced from the studies and
theories of some of the nation’s leading physicists and
astrophysicists.

Courses. Over the four terms during the year, RAP
offered more than two hundred lecture courses for
adults. Attendance at single lectures in 1987 totaled more

183
A trophy-winning participant at the twenty-first annual Kite
Festival on the mall, which attracted 1,200 persons. (Photo-
graph by Jeff Tinsley)

than sixty-three thousand, a better than ro percent in-
crease over the previous year. “The Best of The New
Yorker” and several other courses attracted especially
large audiences. “Telling the Story: An Inside Look at
How News Is Created” featured such noted media profes-
sionals as National Public Radio’s Susan Stamberg and
Daniel Zwerdling and New York Times health reporter
Jane Brody. Also popular were “The Origins of the
World: A Quest for Answers,” with Smithsonian Secre-
tary Adams as the final speaker; “Architecture for a New
Century,” saluting the one hundredth anniversary of the
Washington, D.C., Chapter of the American Institute of
Architects; and “Connoisseurship in the Visual Arts,”
taught by National Portrait Gallery Director Alan Fern,
National Gallery of Art curator Arthur Wheelock, and
Stuart Dennenburg, president of Dennenburg Fine Arts in
San Francisco.

Studio Arts. Traditional and contemporary arts and
crafts were examined in 250 courses and workshops, en-
hanced by studies of Smithsonian collections. Nearly six-
teen thousand people took advantage of these offerings.
The new, state-of-the-art photography laboratory and

184

studio arts rooms in the Ripley Center have enabled RAP
to expand its curriculum to include color photography
techniques and to add a variety of hands-on workshops
and courses. Guest instructors in 1987 included Canadian
wildlife artist Robert Bateman, New Zealand potter
Barry Brickell, Japanese woodcut master Unichi Hirat-
suka, and American woodturner Palmer Sharpless.

Lectures, Seminars, and Films. Single lectures, inten-
sive one- and two-day seminars, and scholarly sympo-
sia—all featuring presentations by recognized
authorities—addressed a wide range of current cultural
and scientific topics. Several films made their United
States or Washington debuts at RAP-sponsored
showings.

Notable speakers who appeared at these activities in
1987 included artist Julian Schnabel, designer Mary Mc-
Fadden, art collector Leonard Andrews, composer and
jazz historian Gunther Schuller, filmmaker and naturalist
Sir David Attenborough, novelists Nicholas Gage and
Toni Morrison, Pulitzer Prize-winning poet Henry Tay-
lor, legal scholar Archibald Cox, oceanographer Robert
Ballard, physicist John Schwartz, and conservationist
Russell Peterson.

A total of 31,400 people attended 126 lectures during
1987. Some 1,700 people participated in 14 all-day semi-
nars, which included “Art of Biography,” “Contemporary
Life in a Chinese Village,” “Maya Civilization: Lords of
the Jungle,” “The Constitution: Great Issues of Today
and Tomorrow,” and “Psychotherapy Today.”

The fifty-five films shown in 1987 attracted an audi-
ence totaling fourteen thousand. The Washington pre-
miere series “Cinema from the Soviet Republics” drew
national acclaim and was attended by Elem Klimov, pres-
ident of the Soviet Filmmakers Union; a delegation of
Russian filmmakers; and Soviet Ambassador Yuri Dubi-
nin. RAP also featured the American premieres of two
Czech films—A Thousand- Year-Old Bee and Forbidden
Dreams—and the Washington premiere of The Mission.

Performing Arts. In its fourth season of sponsoring
ticketed events in the performing arts, RAP presented
more than one hundred shows that were attended by
twenty-eight thousand people. Highlights were perform-
ances by Metropolitan Opera soprano Roberta Peters,
performer-musicologist Max Morath, the Leningrad Dix-
ieland Jazz Band, cabaret singer Michael Feinstein, folk
musician Doc Watson, and pianist-singer Shirley Horn.
An outstanding jazz series saluted influential small en-
sembles and early big bands. The series was assembled
and narrated by Martin Williams, jazz expert and spe-
cial-projects editor at the Smithsonian Institution Press.
Study Tours. More than 18,300 people participated in
the nearly six hundred tours organized by the program in
1987. Kept small to foster in-depth learning, RAP tour
and field-study groups received first-hand experiences in
the fields of art, architecture, archaeology, history, indus-
try, and science. Activities included walking tours of
Washington neighborhoods, visits to historical sites and
private collections, and a three-day cruise on a clipper
ship from Washington, D.C., to Annapolis, Maryland.
Further afield, RAP members went on an overnight tour
of art collections in the Texas cities of Dallas, Forth
Worth, and Houston; others spent three days studying
the architecture of Chicago, and a geology field trip to
Shenandoah National Park included a campout. Tours
commemorating the Bicentennial of the Constitution
traveled to Philadelphia, the home and environs of James
Madison, and the homes of noted Virginia
antifederalists.

Young Associate and Family Activities. In 1987, RAP
offered more than 150 workshops, classes, free films, per-
formances, lectures, and other activities designed for
young audiences—children between the ages of four and
fifteen—and families. In all, more than twelve thousand
children and parents participated. Those who attended
the annual “Family Halloween Party,” held in the Na-
tional Museum of American History, came disguised as
their “favorite American.” Other annual events included a
film and reception held in conjunction with the “Trees of
Christmas” exhibition at the National Museum of Ameri-
can History, the “Evening Picnic at the Zoo,” the “Story-
telling Festival,” and a family program during “Children’s
Book Week.”

Discovery Theater. Live theater performances for
young people and their families are presented each year
from October through June. Nearly 67,000 people at-
tended 234 performances during the past year; 85 percent
of the total audience consisted of groups from area
schools. In April, Discovery Theater produced an enthu-
siastically received original performance about the life
and music of Duke Ellington. Complementing the city’s
month-long celebration of the great musician and band
leader, Take the “A” Train was partly funded by the
Washington Post.

Volunteers. Nearly four hundred volunteers provided
invaluable assistance to the program, monitoring activi-
ties and performing vital office tasks. The hours of work
contributed by these volunteers were equivalent to that of
nineteen full-time staff members. Office volunteers were
honored for their contributions at a luncheon in April.

Women’s Committee of the
Smithsonian Associates

Celebrating its twentieth anniversary in November 1986,
the Women’s Committee of the Smithsonian Associates
continued to support the mission of the Institution
through fund-raising, special project awards, and
hospitality.

As part of its annniversary celebration, the Women’s
Committee honored its founder, Mrs. S. Dillon Ripley,
and first chairman, Mrs. Robert D. van Roijen, with
twenty-year volunteer-service pins, the first awarded at
the Smithsonian. The past year was also notable for the
extensive contributions of the committee’s sixty-three ac-
tive resource members, who gave a total of more than
seven thousand hours to the Institution, and for the com-
mittee’s successful fund-raising efforts. Net proceeds from
the committee-organized 1986 Christmas Dinner Dance
and 1986 Washington Craft Show were used to support
fifty-seven projects in twenty museums and bureaus. In
all, the committee awarded $162,000 in amounts ranging
from $500 to $20,000.

The inherent variety of the Smithsonian was reflected
in the projects funded by the Women’s Committee. A
partial listing illustrates this diversity. Awards from the
committee were used to support a new brochure and the
“Family Day Program” celebrating the opening of the
new Anacostia Museum; summer internships for college
students at the Cooper-Hewitt Museum; an educational
guide to the permanent collection of the Hirshhorn Mu-
seum and Sculpture Garden; a National Museum of Afri-
can Art symposium on “Design and Color Symbolism in
West African Strip-Woven Cloth”; the purchase of a por-
trait of Kahil Gibran by Rose O’Neill for the National
Portrait Gallery; and the creation of a biographical index
of women artists represented in the collections of the Na-
tional Museum of American Art.

The Women’s Committee also awarded grants for the
recording and distribution of an educational cassette
package on American Indian history and culture; the de-
sign and construction of exhibition facilities for the
Stradivarius Quartet instruments; the purchase of a set of
NASA news releases from 1958 to the present; support of
a seminar on the care and organization of audiovisual
collections; purchase of a sound recording of “Jump for
Joy,” a 1941 revue with music by Duke Ellington; the
duplication of documents detailing nineteenth-century
British trading activities in the Isthmus of Panama; and
the support of the video production The Smithsonian In-
stitution: Airplanes to Zoos.

The National Museum of Natural History received
funding for its “Living Ecosystem” exhibition, the cura-

185
tion of bird fossils from the Hawaiian Islands, and the
purchase of two significant collections of flies and wasps.
The National Zoological Park received grants to produce
a video program on the Golden Lion Tamarin Conserva-
tion Project, to support doctoral students working on re-
search to improve captive breeding, and to design and
construct an exhibit on avian extinction. In addition, an
award to the National Museum of American Art will cre-
ate a special fellowship in honor of the late Adelyn Brees-
kin, a long-time Smithsonian curator and committee
member.

In November, three committee members generously
opened their homes to ninety Contributing Members,
who were visiting Washington, D.C., for a special be-
hind-the-scenes weekend at the Smithsonian. The six-
teenth annual Christmas Dinner Dance, held in the
National Museum of American History, enhanced the
gala event’s standing as a Smithsonian tradition and,
again, was a tremendously successful fund-raiser.

One hundred artist craftspersons from twenty-eight
states participated in the fifth annual Washington Craft
Show, which is acknowledged as one of the best in the
nation. In conjunction with the April show, a preview
reception and silent auction were again organized to raise
funds for the Smithsonian. In addition, renewed emphasis
was placed on the High School Craft Competition. This
portion of the show recognizes and encourages young ar-
tisans from local school districts and offers them contact
with some of the country’s finest craftspeople.

186
UNDER SEPARVEE
BOARDS/OF
TRUSTEES
John F. Kennedy Center
for the Performing Arts

Roger L. Stevens, Chairman

The John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts was
conceived and serves as the national cultural center, a
role that carries certain responsibilities. It operates every
day of the year in the nation’s capital and presents the
finest music, dance, and theater. It gives American ac-
complishments in the performing arts the national recog-
nition they deserve by bringing programs from all over
the United States to its stages. It gives millions of Ameri-
cans a chance to learn about and receive inspiration from
live performing arts, both through its presentations and
its nationwide education programs. The center also en-
courages young and lesser-known fine artists by giving
them opportunities to perform at the center through na-
tional competitions to give them recognition.

To citizens and government leaders in this country, vis-
itors from abroad, and members of the largest diplomatic
community in the world, the center symbolizes our na-
tion’s regard for the performing arts and its dedication to
the cultural enrichment of the United States.

Created by an act of Congress in 1958 as a self-sustain-
ing bureau of the Smithsonian Institution, the Kennedy
Center has two parts: It is the presidential memorial un-
der the aegis of the Department of Interior, and it is a
privately supported performing arts center directed by a
board of trustees whose thirty citizen members are ap-
pointed by the President of the United States. Six con-
gressional representatives and nine designated ex officio
representatives of the executive branch complete the
board membership. This annual report covers the activi-
ties and programming presented by the performing arts
center, not only in its six theaters but also around the
nation through its touring and education programs.

The Kennedy Center is specifically directed by its au-
thorizing legislation to develop and present a broad array
of performing arts programming—including theater, mu-
sic, opera, ballet, dance, and educational and public serv-
ice activities—in Washington, D.C., and across the
country to provide the greatest public access. Since virtu-
ally no direct federal appropriations are provided for
performing arts programming, fulfillment of this congres-
sional mandate is made possible by earned income, pri-
marily from ticket sales, and by the contributions of
millions of dollars from the private sector. In 1987,
earned income provided 71.2 percent of the center’s total
revenue, and government grants 7.1 percent. The Ken-
nedy Center’s future and long-range artistic programming
are only partially secured financially through endowment
funds. An ongoing campaign to increase this endowment
began in 1985.

Two administrative milestones occurred during fiscal

188

year 1987. By the end of 1986, the Kennedy Center and
the National Symphony Orchestra completed an adminis-
trative affiliation designed to help ensure the orchestra’s
long-range financial future and continued artistic excel-
lence, while enhancing the Kennedy Center’s national
mandate; and in July 1987, Kennedy Center Chairman
Roger L. Stevens and the board of trustees announced the
appointment of Ralph P. Davidson as the center’s presi-
dent and chief executive officer, effective February 1988.

Performing Arts Programming

The 1986-87 season drew 1,340,007 people to perform-
ances in the Kennedy Center’s Opera House, Concert
Hall, Theater Lab, and Eisenhower and Terrace theaters.
An additional 67,771 people attended free performances
presented by the center through its Education Program,
Holiday Festival, Cultural Diversity Festival, Friends of
the Kennedy Center Open House, and other activities.
Also, 68,000 people attended films presented by the
American Film Institute (AFI) in the AFI Theater.

Several extraordinary events—in all areas of the per-
forming arts—punctuated the center’s season. Fall fea-
tured the world premiere of Gian Carlo Menotti’s new
opera, Goya, starring Placido Domingo. In winter, the
center presented the American premiere of the interna-
tional hit musical Les Misérables. The all-star gala cele-
bration of Mstislav Rostropovich’s sixtieth birthday
highlighted the spring, and in summer, the mighty Bol-
shoi Ballet returned to the Kennedy Center after an ab-
sence of more than a decade.

Drama and Musical Theater

Few theatrical events have been as eagerly anticipated
and enthusiastically received as Les Misérables. Based on
Victor Hugo’s epic novel, the musical had its American
premiere at the Opera House in December 1986, begin-
ning an eight-week run that set a box-office record. The
theater season opened and closed with musicals as well.
Queenie Pie, the last theater work of the legendary Duke
Ellington, launched the season, coming to the center
fresh from its world premiere in Philadelphia. The sea-
son’s dazzling finale was the twentieth-anniversary pro-
duction of the Tony Award-winning Cabaret. In
between, there were prominent revivals, including the
American comedy classic Arsenic and Old Lace, Robert
Anderson’s moving I Never Sang for My Father, the

The students at the barricade scene from the American premiere of the International hit musical Les Misérables, at the Kennedy
Center Opera House.

award-winng A Raisin in the Sun, and Gilbert and Sulli-
van’s delightful Mikado.

The theater year also featured a variety of new works:
the jazzy musical Satchmo, based on the life of Louis
Armstrong; the riveting one-woman drama My Gene; the
mystery Sherlock’s Last Case; the poignant comedy
Opera Comique; the Acting Company production of
Mark Twain’s The Gilded Age; and the powerful histori-
cal drama Citizen Tom Paine.

Also of note was a two-week engagement of the inter-
national hit Tango Argentino. A unique double bill pre-
sented George Gershwin’s politically inspired Of Thee I
Sing and Let ‘Em Eat Cake. For the open-ended run of
the comedy Shear Madness, the Theater Lab was trans-
formed into a cabaret.

Among the outstanding performers who appeared on
the Kennedy Center’s stages during the 1986-87 season

were Colleen Dewhurst, Donal Donnelly, Jack Gilford,
Harold Gould, Joel Grey, Anne Jackson, Larry Kert,
Frank Langella, Terrence Mann, Larry Marshall, Do-
rothy McGuire, Esther Rolle, Marion Ross, Jean
Stapleton, Richard Thomas, Daniel J. Travant, Eli
Wallach, and Colm Wilkinson.

Dance

The 1986-87 season saw the long-awaited, sold-out re-
turn engagement of the Bolshoi Ballet and the Washing-
ton debuts of the Pacific Northwest Ballet and the
National Ballet of Canada.

Last appearing in Washington in 1976, the Bolshoi Bal-
let treated Kennedy Center audiences to two full-length
works—The Golden Age and Raymonda—and to a daz-

189
zling program of divertissements. The National Ballet of
Canada presented The Merry Widow, a full-length per-

formance, as well as the city’s premiere of Glen Tetley’s

Alice.

Appearing in the Opera House, Ballet West and the
Pacific Northwest Ballet demonstrated the lively quality
of dance in other regions of the nation. In the Eisen-
hower Theater, the Washington Ballet gave its first Ken-
nedy Center performance. For its engagement, the
American Ballet Theatre presented its sumptuous new
production of The Sleeping Beauty. Other highlights in-
cluded performances by the Joffrey Ballet, which pre-
sented Frederick Ashton’s La fille mal gardée and six
other Washington premieres, and a two-week engage-
ment of the Dance Theatre of Harlem.

Dance America, jointly sponsored by the Kennedy Cen-
ter and the Washington Performing Arts Society, comple-
mented the ballet offerings by bringing to the center some
of the country’s most celebrated and influential modern-
dance ensembles. Ethnic dance was represented in a spec-
tacular way with the return of the Soviet Union’s colorful
Moiseyev Dance Company.

Music

In its first season as an affiliate of the Kennedy Center,
the National Symphony Orchestra achieved several tri-
umphs, including the memorable celebration of Music
Director Mstislav Rostropovich’s sixtieth birthday. The
orchestra also recorded its concert performance of Mus-
sorgsky’s Boris Godunov, performed at the week-long
Casals Festival in San Juan, Puerto Rico, and held its
annual series of concerts on the Capitol grounds.

An impressive lineup of international stars and promis-
ing young performers delighted audiences at the Terrace
Concerts. In addition to piano and vocal recitals and per-
formances by chamber ensembles and orchestras, the
Terrace Theater hosted the International Series, the U.S.
Information Agency’s Artistic Ambassador Series, the
Young Concert Artists Series, and Music from Marl-
boro—a three-evening program devoted to the music of
American composer George Perle. Pianist Malcolm Fra-
ger, the Guarneri String Quartet, soprano Arleen Auger,
and the Royal Swedish Chamber Orchestra were among
the artists and performing groups appearing at the thea-
ter during the 1986-87 season.

The annual Kennedy Center Friedheim Award, de-
signed to recognize and encourage the creation of new

190

American music, was awarded to Gunther Schuller for
his String Quartet No. 3.

The Theater Chamber Players of the Kennedy Center,
the Choral Arts Society of Washington, and Oratorio So-
ciety of Washington, and the Paul Hill Chorale returned
to the center for their annual subscription concerts. And
the popular Mostly Mozart Festival again offered a sum-
mer agenda of preconcert recitals and exquisite concerts
featuring the Festival Orchestra and a host of premier
soloists. Accenting this year’s festivities were a colorful
tent and preconcert supper.

Pop events were as numerous as ever, particularly dur-
ing the summer, which featured performances by singer
Tom Jones, the Chinese Dragon Acrobats, three young
comics from television’s “Saturday Night Live,” and other
entertainers.

The Kennedy Center’s long-running Handel Festival
came to a triumphant close after eleven consecutive sea-
sons of concert operas, oratorios, and “best of” potpour-
ris. Performances of Joshua, Deidamia, and Hallelujah
Handel IV highlighted the finale of the series.

As always, the center offered a multitude of free
events—many featuring performers from the Washington,
D.C., area. Free performances were offered in conjunc-
tion with the Holiday Festival in December and with
“Inside/Out,” the center’s third annual open house.

Kennedy Center Associate Organizations

The Kennedy Center’s two artistic associates—the Ameri-
can Film Institute and the Washington Opera—produce
many activities and programs for local audiences. During
the past year, AFI presented classic and foreign films,
independent features, and contemporary video works in
its 224-seat theater. The Washington Opera scored an
international coup this past season when it and the Ken-
nedy Center produced the world premiere of Gian Carlo
Menotti’s latest work, Goya, which was subsequently
televised by PBS.

In addition, the Washington Performing Arts Society
presented a grand array of musicians and dancers from
around the world in its diverse annual series.

Public Service Programming
As directed by Congress, the Kennedy Center carries out

a broad range of educational and public service pro-
grams. These include the National Program for Cultural
Diversity, which encourages—through its sponsorship of
performances, commissions, workshops, conferences, in-
ternships, and advisory and technical services in arts ad-
ministration—artistic activities that reflect the nation’s
cultural and ethnic variety. With the exception of some
financial aid from the U.S. Department of Education,
these programs are supported by funds privately raised
by the Kennedy Center. In 1987, $2,321,000 was allo-
cated from the center’s private contributions to support
national education programs and cultural-diversity activi-
ties and to subsidize theater, music, and dance presenta-
tions. These subsidies enabled the Kennedy Center to
offer many free and low-price performances and events
that were enjoyed by more than a million people in
Washington, D.C., and around the country. In addition,
18,059 people visited and used the Performing Arts Li-
brary, which is a joint project of the Kennedy Center and
the Library of Congress.

Education Programming

As the national cultural center, the Kennedy Center has
responsibility for advancing all arts in the education of
the nation’s youth. Responding to this challenge, the cen-
ter’s Education Program sponsored performances and
other events in 1987 that reached more than three million
people nationwide. These activities were carried out
through the Alliance for Arts Education, the American
College Theater Festival, the National Symphony Orches-
tra Education Program, and Programs for Children and
Youth. Each of these four components works closely
with Very Special Arts, an educational affiliate of the
Kennedy Center.

The Education Program, through its Program for Chil-
dren and Youth (PCY), provided more than two hundred
free performances and events to Kennedy Center audi-
ences totaling more than sixty thousand in 1987. Reflect-
ing its commitment to developing new works for young
people, the center commissioned three new works in
1987, bringing the total since 1977 to twenty-eight. PCY
also continued to offer performance opportunities to
Washington-area youths through its Teen Acting Ensem-
ble and Summer Drama Workshop. In addition, some
560 students, ages five through eighteen, received training
in acting, puppetry, playwriting, and technical theater.

The Alliance for Arts Education (AAE) is a national
network of forty-seven volunteer committees, based in
states and special jurisdictions, that develops and pro-
motes the arts in local school systems across the United

Leslie Carothers and Phillip Jerry in the Joffrey Ballet produc-
tion of Gerald Arpino’s Light Rain at the Kennedy Center.

States. In 1987, seven educators were awarded Kennedy
Center Fellowships for Teachers of the Arts, and thirty-
three principals and superintendents were cited for foster-
ing the arts in their schools and school districts. AAE
also sponsored the first phase of a major cultural ex-
change between the United States and Australia. Activi-
ties in the program, Arts Dialogue—Australia, are
designed to commemorate the country’s bicentennial in
1988. Nationwide, AAE welcomed the participation of
about five hundred thousand young people, families, and
teachers to Imagination Celebration festivals, which were
held at thirty sites in twelve states, the District of Colum-
bia, and two foreign nations.

For the nineteenth year, the American College Theater
Festival (ACTF) combined the efforts of theater educators
and professionals to recognize and celebrate the finest
and most exciting works produced in university and col-
lege theater programs. In 1987, more than fifteen thou-

IOI
sand students and two thousand faculty members
presented nearly seven hundred college theater produc-
tions representing almost five hundred schools. Victori-
ous in local and regional competitions, five finalist
productions were brought to the Kennedy Center for
ACTF’s national festival in April. Nationwide, produc-
tions entered in the 1987 festival drew audiences totaling
one million people. The nineteenth festival also marked
the first year of a three-year corporate gift to the pro-
gram by the National Broadcasting Company. Also in
1987, ACTF cosponsored numerous awards programs in
playwriting, design, criticism, acting, and theater
administration.

As a result of the new affiliation between the National
Symphony Orchestra (NSO) and the Kennedy Center, the
Education Program was expanded to include NSO’s edu-
cational activities. Since its beginning in 1931, the orches-
tra has presented specially designed concert programs to
help further the music education of students and adults in
the Washington metropolitan area. During the past year,
the orchestra performed Young People’s Concerts for
more than forty thousand elementary school students. It
also presented a “Meet the Orchestra” concert for high
school students, Encore Concerts for Families, Young So-
loists’ Competitions for high school and college musi-
cians, and numerous individualized programs for high
school students interested in pursuing careers in music.

All components of the Education Program are sup-
ported by the Kennedy Center’s Educational Services Di-
vision, which uses the center’s performing arts resources
as the basis for workshops and other educational activi-
ties designed for students, teachers, and the general pub-
lic. More than twenty-two hundred teachers, some
eighteen hundred other adults, and more than forty-three
hundred high school students participated in these activi-
ties during the past year.

In 1987, the Education Program gave the Frances
Holleman Breathitt Award for Excellence to Bob Keeshan
(“Captain Kangaroo”) for his contributions to the arts
and to children. Rounding out its activities, the Educa-
tion Program sponsored the International Children’s
Choir Festival, which brought to the center more than
one hundred young choristers from Bangkok, Beijing,
Hong Kong, and San Juan to promote world peace and
goodwill through music.

Specially Priced Ticket Program

Since it opened in September 1971, the Kennedy Center
has maintained a Specially Priced Ticket Program in con-

192

junction with performances produced and presented at
the center. The largest of its kind in the nation, the pro-
gram makes half-price tickets available to students, per-
sons with permanent disability, senior citizens, low-
income groups, and military personnel in grades E-1
through E-4. The attendant costs, in terms of administra-
tive overhead and reduced revenue potential, are borne
by the Kennedy Center. During the past year, combined
sales of half-priced tickets to Kennedy Center and inde-
pendent productions totaled $75,907. The sale of these
tickets at full value would have resulted in total addi-
tional gross income of $1,131,913 to the center and inde-
pendent producers.

Funding

The Kennedy Center is essentially a privately funded or-
ganization. It receives limited government funding for its
programming. Presentation costs for nearly all its pro-
grams are such that the center depends on the financial
assistance of individuals and corporate and foundation
sponsors to make them feasible.

The National Park Service provides funding through
annual appropriations to maintain and secure the build-
ing as a presidential memorial; the performing arts opera-
tion is charged its pro rata share, which totals more than
$x million annually. Meanwhile, the Kennedy Center’s
board of trustees is wholly responsible for the cost of
maintaining and improving the theaters, backstage, and
office facilities at a cost of $300,000 annually.

Artistic programming and day-to-day performing arts
operations are almost entirely privately supported—with
more than $31.5 million in earned income and more than
$9.6 million in private sector fund-raising in 1987.

The nation’s business community plays an important
role in this effort through the Corporate Fund, estab-
lished in 1977 by a group of national corporate leaders.
Under the leadership of Corporate Fund Chairman Theo-
dore F. Brophy, chairman of the GTE Corporation, the
1987 Corporate Fund contributed more than $2.3 million
from nearly three hundred businesses. The contribution
supported the production of new or seldom-performed
works, programs to develop new talent, development of
musical theater productions, and other efforts.

In recent years, only 7 percent of the annual operating
budget of the Kennedy Center and National Symphony
Orchestra has come from government sources. Most of
these funds have come from the U.S. Department of Edu-
cation for the center’s national education programs,

which are carried out at the request and with the ap-
proval of the department.

In 1985, the Kennedy Center launched a campaign to
build a permanent endowment to help achieve the finan-
cial stability needed to sustain and increase the quality
and variety of programming. As a result of the center’s
administrative affiliation with the National Symphony
Orchestra, a joint campaign with a national goal of $50
million is now under way to build an endowment for the
two institutions. By September 1987, nearly $18 million
had been raised, bringing the total endowment to $25
million. Included in this total is a $1 million challenge
grant for the center endowment from the National En-
dowment for the Arts. In addition, the center has re-
ceived $4.7 million in gifts for working capital to help
support programming while the endowment grows.

The Kennedy Center Honors

The Kennedy Center Honors were first awarded by the
board of trustees in 1978 to recognize the outstanding
cultural contributions of the nation’s finest performing
artists. An annual event, the Honors Gala is the center’s
most important fund-raising benefit; the 1986 Honors
Gala raised more than $1 million in net proceeds to sup-
port programming. The Honors recipients were Lucille
Ball, Ray Charles, Hume Cronyn and Jessica Tandy,
Yehudi Menuhin, and Antony Tudor.

Friends of the Kennedy Center

The Friends of the Kennedy Center is a nationwide or-
ganization providing financial, administrative, volunteer,
and community-relations assistance. Founded in 1966 to
raise grass-roots support among private citizens for the
construction of the national cultural center, the Friends
organization counted more than thirty thousand donor
members and more than seven hundred volunteers in
1987.

Revenues from the Friends’ membership program,
fund-raising events, and gift shops help support the over-
all operations of the center, as well as a number of na-
tional and community projects. For the last three years,
the organization has sponsored “Inside/Out,” an all-day
festival of free performances and activities which, in
1987, drew more than fifty thousand people. Other pub-
lic service programs receiving financial support from the
Friends of the Kennedy Center included the Specially

Priced Ticket Program, the national 4-H program, the
American College Theater Festival, and the Imagination
Celebrations held around the country.

The organization’s volunteers—whose total contribu-
tion of more than sixty thousand hours of free service in
1987 had an estimated value of about $250,o00o—con-
ducted free tours for more than two hundred thousand
people, staffed the gift shops and information center,
provided assistance to disabled visitors, and administered
the Specially Priced Ticket Program.

The Friends of the Kennedy Center also administered
the membership and activities of the National Symphony
Orchestra Association and of the Friends Assisting the
National Symphony (FANS), including the annual Radi-
othon and ro-kilometer run. Although the majority of the
Friends of the Kennedy Center live in the Washington,
D.C., area, the organization has members in all fifty
states. In 1987, the first state chapter was established in
Texas.

193
National Gallery of Art

J. Carter Brown, Director

The National Gallery of Art, although formally estab-
lished as a bureau of the Smithsonian Institution, is an
autonomous and separately administered organization. It
is governed by its own board of trustees, the ex officio
members of which are the Chief Justice of the United
States, the Secretary of State, the Secretary of the Trea-
sury, and the Secretary of the Smithsonian. Of the five
general trustees, Franklin D. Murphy continued to serve
as chairman of the board, and John R. Stevenson as the
gallery’s president. Also continuing on the board were
Ruth Carter Stevenson and Robert H. Smith. In May, the
general trustees accepted with regret Carlisle H. Humel-
sine’s decision to retire from the board. Alexander M.
Laughlin, of Tucker, Anthony and R. L. Day, Inc., in
New York, was elected to fill the vacancy, and Mr.
Humelsine was named trustee emeritus.

During the year, visitors entering the two gallery build-
ings totaled 6,986,465. Distinguished visitors included
Foreign Minister Giulio Andreotti of Italy; Prime Minis-
ter Turgutozal of Turkey; Her Royal Highness Princess
Alexandra of Great Britain; and President Mario Soares
of Portugal.

Exhibitions

The year began with an exhibition of American furniture
dating from the pre-Revolutionary period to the mid-
nineteenth century. Featuring items from the collection of
Linda and George M. Kaufman, the exhibition presented
more than one hundred chairs, desks, tables, and high
chests from the William and Mary, Queen Anne, Chip-
pendale, Federal, and Empire periods, and it traced
trends in the major regional style centers of Boston, New
York, Philadelphia, Newport, and Charleston.

An exhibition of sculptures by Alexander Archipenko,
a leading figure of the cubist movement, celebrated the
one hundredth anniversary of his birth. Many of the
works were representative of the artist’s early career and
revealed his wit and superb sense of color. Coinciding
with the Washington Opera’s world premiere perform-
ance of Gian Carlo Menotti’s opera, Goya, the gallery
supplemented its own major Goya collection with a selec-
tion of paintings and drawings from Spanish and Ameri-
can private collections.

“The Age of Sultan Sileyman the Magnificent” was the
first major exhibition in the United States of treasures
from the Golden Age of the Ottoman Empire and
marked the first time in more than twenty years that
Turkish art has traveled to this country. On display were

194

more than two hundred sixteenth-century objects, includ-
ing illustrated manuscripts, drawings, paintings, textiles,
inlaid wood pieces, ceramics, and imperial items made of
precious metals and semiprecious stones studded with
gemstones. Items for the exhibition were borrowed from
the Topkapi Palace Museum’s collection of Turkish na-
tional treasures in Istanbul and from private and public
collections in the United States and Europe.

“The Age of Correggio and Carracci: Emilian Painting
of the 16th and 17th Centuries” featured nearly two hun-
dred paintings by fifty artists from the principal Italian
artistic centers of Parma, Ferrara, and Bologna. The ex-
hibition focused on the stylistic innovations of the Car-
raccis around 1600 in the context of the styles that
preceded and followed these very influential painters in
the Emilian region of Italy.

An exhibition of paintings by Henri Matisse was the
first to be devoted exclusively to the artist’s career be-
tween 1916 and 1930. During this span, Matisse lived in
the south of France, lured by the intense light, brilliant
colors, and exotic subject matter on the Cote d’Azur. In-
cluded were 169 works, almost one-third of which had
seldom or never been on public view.

More than seventy modern sculptures from the collec-
tion of Patsy and Raymond Nasher were installed
throughout the East Building’s public spaces. These im-
portant additions highlighted concentrations of work by
diverse modern masters of the figurative and construc-
tivist traditions, as well as the minimal, pop, and post-
modern movements.

“The Age of Bruegel,” the first exhibition in the United
States devoted solely to the sixteenth-century Dutch and
Flemish drawings, consisted of more than one hundred
works loaned by major museums and private collections
in Europe and the United States. The works surveyed the
wide range of styles and subject matter representative of
the age, and they followed the development of the Neth-
erlandish school from the influence of the late Gothic
style to the assimilation of Italian Renaissance and man-
nerist styles. Another exhibition of works on paper
brought more than sixty Italian old master drawings
from the British Royal Collection, ranging from the Re-
naissance through the baroque periods. Among the works
on view were seven drawings by Leonardo da Vinci, four
by Michelangelo, and three by Raphael.

Madonna and Child by Dirck Bouts. Netherlandish, circa
1415/1420-1475. National Gallery of Art, Washington, D.C.
Patron’s Permanent Fund.
Twentieth-century American draftsmanship was exam-
ined in two concurrent exhibitions. “Selections from the
Whitney Museum of American Art” traced major schools
of American art, such as regionalism, early abstraction,
and figurative modes from the traditional to the surreal.
The exhibition focused on diversity and innovation in a
wide range of subject matter and media, including graph-
ite, watercolor, pastel, gouache, collage, and stamp-pad
ink. The second exhibition probed realism in American
art through drawings, watercolors, and temperas by An-
drew Wyeth. The 140 works depicted the artist’s neigh-
bor, Helga Testorf, in Chadd’s Ford, Pennsylvania. The
exhibition offered a rare opportunity to follow a single
artist’s creative process, concentrating on and revising a
single subject over a period of fifteen years.

The close of the year brought a major retrospective of
the work of impressionist painter Berthe Morisot, which
included many works that had not been seen by the pub-
lic since the artist’s memorial exhibition in 1896. In some
sixty oil paintings, as well as a selection of pastels, water-
colors, and colored-pencil drawings, the artist’s virtuoso
brushwork and extraordinary use of color were vividly
demonstrated. A small but exquisite exhibition of a selec-
tion of some of the most beautiful works by American
impressionist William Merritt Chase was shown concur-
rently with the Morisot show. Paintings done between
1891 and 1902 depicted Chase’s family, summer home,
and studio, and the many moods of the surrounding
landscape at Shinnecock, Long Island. It was the first in
a planned series of three closely focused exhibitions of
masters and masterpieces of American impressionism.

Education Programs

According to the gallery’s annual survey conducted dur-
ing August, visitors from forty-eight states and fifty-four
foreign countries stopped to make inquiries at the three
information desks. These desks are staffed by more than
ninety volunteers, who have been trained by members of
the gallery’s Education Department. To help them locate
works of art and provide information about specific
items, volunteers use the gallery’s computer system.
Among the many diverse programs offered by the pro-
fessional staff were three art history courses, consisting of
four to eight slide lectures. One was a two-part survey of
“The History of Western Art from Egypt to the Present,”
and the others—“Matisse: Master of Color” and “The
Arts in Europe and the Near East at the Time of Suley-
man the Magnificent”—provided background informa-

196

tion for two temporary exhibitions at the gallery. In
addition, the gallery continued its very popular discussion
groups, each session meeting at least four times to ex-
plore particular aspects of art history.

Five recorded tours of temporary exhibitions were of-
fered to the public, as was an updated and revised “Di-
rector’s tour” of the permanent collection in the West
Building. Educational packets were prepared for area
teachers, who used the classroom materials to prepare
students for a visit to the Suleyman exhibition. During
their visit to the gallery, students were treated to demon-
strations by a calligrapher and illuminator of traditional
Turkish styles and to a slide presentation on the design
and installation of the exhibition. The gallery also of-
fered family programs on Saturdays during the school
year. The programs featured a storyteller, tours, films,
concerts, and the ballet performance After Miro.

The gallery continued its successful series of Sunday
afternoon lectures. The twenty-nine guest speakers dur-
ing the past year included Sir Lawrence Gowing, the 1987
Kress Professor; H. Nichols B. Clark, director of the La-
mont Gallery of the Phillips Exeter Academy; Wendy A.
Cooper, director of The DeWitt Wallace Decorative Arts
Gallery in Colonial Williamsburg; Richard S. Field, cura-
tor of prints, drawings, and photographs at the Yale Uni-
versity Art Gallery; Louise W. Mackie, curator in charge
of the Textile Department of the Royal Ontario Mu-
seum; Terisio Pignatti, professor of art history at Wake
Forest University; Jane Roberts, curator of the Royal Li-
brary Print Room in Windsor Castle; and Katharine Wat-
son, director of the Bowdoin College Museum of Art.

The Extension Program’s audience in the United States
and sixty other countries increased to an estimated 180
million viewings of gallery-produced films, videotapes,
and slide programs, exceeding the previous year’s total by
about ten million. Several gallery-produced films, such as
the ones on Peto and Audubon, won awards in interna-
tional film festivals in Italy, Belgium, Greece, Poland,
and Czechoslovakia. The film Winslow Homer: The Na-
ture of the Artist, produced by the Education Depart-
ment in 1986, won a CINE Golden Eagle award and was
aired throughout
Europe via the U.S. Information Agency’s Worldnet.

The department continued to produce new slide pro-
grams, films, and videotapes that examined either the
gallery’s collections or its temporary exhibitions. One set
of visual programs focused on the etchings by James
McNeill Whistler in the collection, while two others fo-
cused on the life and art of George Inness and William
Merritt Chase, whose works were displayed in temporary
exhibitions. In addition, a new videocassette explored the
behind-the-scenes efforts that produced “The Treasure
Houses of Britain,” the gallery’s major exhibition in 1986;
another videocassette produced in 1987 examined the
preparations for the past year’s exhibition of works by
Matisse.

The gallery’s Film Program continued to expand, offer-
ing five feature-film series in 1987. In conjunction with
the exhibition “Goya Paintings from Spanish Private Col-
lections and the National Gallery of Art,” the gallery pre-
sented the last eight films by the great Spanish filmmaker
Luis Bunuel, and during the Matisse exhibition, avant-
garde silent films made in France during the 1920s were
shown. A seven-part series of Soviet films of the 1920s,
organized by Center for Advanced Study in the Visual
Arts senior fellow Annette Michelson, complemented the
Archipenko exhibition. “Figures in a Landscape,” a
twelve-part film and lecture series, was organized to coin-
cide with the exhibitions of American twentieth-century
drawings and watercolors. Finally, a fourteen-film retro-
spective of the work of Italian filmmaker Luchino Vis-
conti attracted nearly sixteen thousand viewers.

Two gallery-produced films—Matisse in Nice and Su-
leyman the Magnificent—were aired nationally by the
Public Broadcasting System, and they are being distrib-
uted internationally in a videocassette format. Suleyman
the Magnificent, coproduced with the Metropolitan Mu-
seum of Art and funded by the Turkish government and
the Mobil Oil Corporation, was also sold to a London
television station.

Acquisitions

Among the artworks purchased during the year were Ma-
donna and Child, a small, but extremely rare, painting
by fifteenth-century Netherlandish painter Dierck Bouts,
and the brilliantly colored painting God the Father by
seventeenth-century Italian artist Francesco Albani.
Sower, a sculpture by Seymour Lipton, was purchased
from the late artist’s estate. Several eighteenth-century
English and Italian works were secured for the graphics
collection, including a watercolor landscape by Thomas
Girtin and a tiny Guardi cappriccio. A lovely Vuillard
watercolor, Four Ladies with Fancy Hats, also was added
to the collection. Among the prints purchased were two
rare Constable etchings, both in first states, and three
important woodcuts—a Madonna and Child Enthroned
by an unknown fifteenth-century Augsburg printmaker, a

Baldung Salome with the Head of John the Baptist, and
Christoffel Jegher’s Susanna Surprised by the Two Elders.
On the ground floor of the West Building, a new gal-
lery was opened to display Armand Hammer’s collection
of old master drawings, which is on permanent deposit in

the gallery as a promised bequest. In addition, the new
display includes the full-scale cartoon by Raphael for his
painting La Belle Jardiniére, the purchase of which was
made possible by Dr. Hammer. Dr. Hammer also gave
nine more drawings, including a Durer pen sketch, The
Centaur Family, and a double-sided sheet of studies by
Veronese.

Another exceptional gift to the Graphics Department’s
drawings collection was a small but exquisite group of
old master and modern works given by Mrs. Lessing J.
Rosenwald. The donated works included a red-chalk
drawing of an old man by Rembrandt and an album by
sixteenth-century Flemish artist Joris Hoefnagel of 277
watercolors of mammals, insects, reptiles, fish, and birds.
The department’s small collection of English drawings
was enhanced by a gift of twenty-one late eighteenth- and
early nineteenth-century works. A collection of works by
John Marin—127 watercolors, drawings, and pastels, as
well as sixteen sketchbooks and twenty etchings—was
donated by the artist’s son. The contemporary graphics
collection was expanded with a gift of thirty-four prints
and multiples published by Gemini G.E.L., including ma-
jor works by Johns, Rauschenberg, Oldenburg, Kelly,
Lichtenstein, and Borofsky.

Outstanding among the gifts of individual drawings
were two early seventeenth-century works—a large
Vinckboons drawing of an elegant garden party and a
life-size Head of a Siren by Goltzius. Other notable gifts
of drawings included a beautiful fifteenth-century Floren-
tine study of St. John, a Poussin landscape sketch, a Vad-
der landscape, a Bellows nude, a Steinberg collage, and a
large watercolor—Field Hand—by Andrew Wyeth.

Among the prints donated to the gallery in 1987 were
five Kirchner lithographs, which included two of his fin-
est color lithographs, Russian Dancers (1909) and Three
Bathers by Stones (1913).

River Landscape with Cows, a major painting by sey-
enteenth-century Dutch artist Aelbert Cuyp, also was re-
ceived as a gift. In addition, the collection of twentieth-
century American paintings was enhanced by a gift of
two handsome portraits by Robert Henri of Mr. and
Mrs. George Cotton Smith, a vibrant New York, Febru-
ary, 1911 by George Bellows, and the gallery’s first oil
painting by John Marin, which was given by Mr. and
Mrs. John Marin, Jr.

197
The year was also highlighted by the publication of
Early Netherlandish Painting, the first volume of the
scholarly systematic catalogue of the gallery’s collections,
a project begun five years ago. Another publication pro-
duced in 1987, Summary Catalogue of European Paint-
ings, marked an important publishing milestone; the
catalogue was typeset directly from the gallery’s comput-
erized art information data base. Begun in 1982, the data
base now contains basic records for every object in the
gallery’s collections, as well as information on every artist
represented there. In all, records for more than fifty-two
thousand objects and more than eight thousand artists
have been entered into the data base.

Temporary Exhibitions

“Gifts to the Nation: Selected Acquisitions from the Col-
lection of Mr. and Mrs. Paul Mellon.” Continued from
the previous fiscal year to October 19, 1986. Coordinated
by John Wilmerding and Charles F. Stuckey.

“Renaissance Master Bronzes from the Kunsthistorisches
Museum, Vienna.” Continued from the previous fiscal
year to November 30, 1986. Coordinated by C. Douglas
Lewis. Supported by Republic National Bank of New
York and Banco Safra, $.A., Brazil, and the Federal
Council on the Arts and the Humanities.

“American Furniture from the Kaufman Collection.” Oc-
tober 12, 1986—April 19, 1987. Coordinated by John
Wilmerding.

“Henri Matisse: The Early Years in Nice, 1916-1930.”
November 2, 1986—March 29, 1987. Coordinated by Jack
Cowart. Supported by GTE Corporation and the Federal
Council on the Arts and the Humanities.

“The Age of Bruegel: Netherlandish Drawings of the Six-
teenth Century.” November 7, 1986—January 18, 1987.
Coordinated by John Hand. Supported by Shell Compa-
nies Foundation, Inc.; Unilever, United States, Inc.; and
the Federal Council on the Arts and the Humanities.

“Goya Paintings from Spanish Private Collections and the
National Gallery of Art.” November 16, 1986—January 4,
1987. Coordinated by Charles F. Stuckey. Supported by
Pacific Telesis Foundation and the Federal Council on the
Arts and the Humanities.

198

“Alexander Archipenko: A Centennial Tribute.” Novem-
ber 16, 1986—February 16, 1987. Coordinated by Jack Co-
wart. Supported by the Federal Council on the Arts and
the Humanities.

“The Age of Correggio and the Carracci: Emilian Paint-
ing of the 16th and 17th Centuries.” December 19, 1986-
February 16, 1987. Coordinated by Sydney J. Freedberg.
Supported by Montedison Group, Alitalia, and the Fed-
eral Council on the Arts and the Humanities.

“The Age of Sultan Stileyman the Magnificent.” January
25—-May 17, 1987. Coordinated by D. Dodge Thompson.
Supported by Philip Morris Companies, Inc., and the
Federal Council on the Arts and the Humanities.

“Italian Master Drawings from the British Royal Collec-
tion.” May 1o—July 26, 1987. Coordinated by Andrew
Robison. Pan American World Airways was designated
the official carrier of the exhibition.

“American Drawings and Watercolors of the Twentieth
Century: Selections from the Whitney Museum of Ameri-
can Art.” May 24-September 7, 1987. Coordinated by
Ruth Fine. Supported by the Du Pont Company.

“American Drawings and Watercolors of the Twentieth
Century: Andrew Wyeth, the Helga Pictures.” May 24-
September 27, 1987. Coordinated by John Wilmerding.
Supported by the Du Pont Company.

“A Century of Modern Sculpture: Selections from the
Patsy and Raymond Nasher Collection.” June 28, 1987—
January 3, 1988. Coordinated by Nan Rosenthal. Sup-
ported by Northern Telecom.

“William Merritt Chase: Summers at Shinnecock, 1891-
1902.” August 23-November 29, 1987. Coordinated by
Nicolai Cikovsky, Jr. Supported by Bell Atlantic.

“Berthe Morisot.” September 6—November 29, 1987. Co-
ordinated by Charles F. Stuckey. Supported by Republic
National Bank of New York and Banco Safra, S.A., Bra-
zil; and the Federal Council on the Arts and the
Humanities.

“Repose” (Portrait of Berthe Morisot by Eugene Manet).
September 6—November 29, 1987.

Reading Is Fundamental, Inc.

Mrs. Elliot Richardson, Chairman
Ruth Graves, President

Marking its twenty-first year in 1987, Reading Is Funda-
mental, Inc. (RIF) began as a small pilot project in the
nation’s capital. The aim was to cultivate a love of read-
ing among the young by making good books available to
them. Over the past two decades, RIF has grown to en-
compass more than thirty-one hundred projects that serve
2.1 million young people in all fifty states, the District of
Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, and Guam.

Today, RIF boasts a volunteer network of some eighty-
six thousand citizens whose grass-roots efforts continue
to build literacy programs for young people. The sites of
their efforts are not only schools and libraries, but also
Indian reservations, housing projects, migrant-worker
camps, hospitals, centers for the handicapped, juvenile
detention centers, and day-care centers.

The results have been significant. Volunteers consis-
tently report improvement in children’s reading habits:
Young participants are checking out more books from
libraries and many have increased their reading compre-
hension; parents have become more involved in their chil-
dren’s education; and community support for reading
programs has grown. These gauges of success are corrob-
orated by recent studies of effective techniques to encour-
age reading, the results of which affirm the soundness of
RIF’s approach.

Both the public and private sectors share credit for
these accomplishments. In 1987, the U.S. Department of
Education again contracted with RIF to carry out the
department’s Inexpensive Book Distribution Program
(IBDP), a program created by Congress in 1976 and mod-
eled on the RIF approach. The federal program enables
RIF to match local funds allocated for purchasing books.

At the local level, RIF projects are supported by some
six thousand businesses and organizations that donate
funds, goods, and services. Projects also receive substan-
tial discounts on books as well as other services from
some 350 publishers and distributors. In addition, over
the last sixteen years, the broadcast and print media have
contributed an estimated $50 million worth of free
advertising for RIF projects.

Since 1966, RIF’s broad base of support has enabled
the organization to distribute seventy-eight million books
to young people.

1987 Highlights
RIF celebrated its twentieth anniversary in November

with a gala party at the Washington, D.C., Convention
Center. The festivities included a tribute to the organiza-

=

Two boys immersed in reading their new books distributed by
Reading is Fundamental, Inc. (Photograph by Rick Reinhard)

tion’s longest-serving volunteers. The twenty people hon-
ored had contributed a combined total of more than 27
years of service. Mrs. George Bush, a member of the RIF
board, presented each volunter with a plaque commemo-
rating his or her efforts.

The celebration also featured entertainment by “Ses-
ame Street’s” Kermit Love and his puppet “Snuggle the
Bear,” who performed for some four hundred Washing-
ton-area youngsters. Each of the young guests also re-
ceived a free book and another to pass along to a needy
friend.

At the Metropolitan Life Gallery in New York City,
the winning posters in RIF’s 1986 contest were exhibited
along with a drawing contributed by Charles Schulz, cre-
ator of the famous “Peanuts” cartoon. Donated to RIF’s
annual “In Celebration of Reading” campaign, Schulz’s
drawing featured the “Peanuts” gang and a space for gal-
lery visitors to write the titles of their favorite books.

Some four hundred thousand children participated in
the second annual RIF poster contest, sponsored by Hall-
mark Cards, Inc. The winner, Dominic D’Aleo, of Blau-
velt, New York, received a $500 U.S. Savings Bond,
books, prizes, and a trip for him and his family to Wash-
ington, D.C., during Reading Is Fun Week.

“In Celebration of Reading,” sponsored by the Metro-

199

politan Life Foundation, again attracted hundreds of
thousands of participants from around the nation. The
campaign offers a variety of incentives to encourage
young people to read during their leisure time. All
youngsters who participate in the campaign are eligible
for selection as local RIF Readers, who are then entered
in a national drawing. In a ceremony held at the Martin
Luther King, Jr., Library in Washington, D.C., Mrs.
George Bush drew the name of Heather Bell, of St.
Louis, Missouri, who became the National RIF Reader.

Since 1966, RIF projects have involved hundreds of
thousands of parents in volunteer efforts to encourage
children’s reading. In 1984, RIF began to serve parents
directly by initiating a Parent Services Program. Several
foundations and corporations, including the General
Electric Foundation, the John D. and Catherine T.
MacArthur Foundation, and Beatrice, Inc., have pro-
vided strong financial support for the program. The Gen-
eral Electric Foundation, for example, has sponsored
twenty-three parent workshops since 1984. These work-
shops feature nationally recognized speakers, small-group
sessions led by reading experts, take-home advisory mate-
rials, and a book distribution for parents. During the
past year, workshops were held in Hartford, Connecti-
cut; Somersworth, New Hampshire; Boston, Massachu-
setts; Lansing, Michigan; Holmen, Wisconsin; and
Poway, California.

In 1987, RIF received a second major grant from the
John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation that
enabled it to begin expanding its Parent Services Program
to include publications for Spanish-speaking parents and
to develop pilot literacy and reading projects to reach
disadvantaged families.

During the last week of April, millions of children
across the country celebrated Reading Is Fun Week with
balloon launches, young author fetes, and parades featur-
ing book characters. At the Washington, D.C., Armory,
the Ringling Bros. and Barnum & Bailey Circus joined
RIF in launching the national celebration. Complete with
a clown performance of “Reading Is Three Rings of
Fun,” the circus program made the kickoff a memorable
success for the audience, which included four hundred
Washington-area youngsters. The spotlight, however,
was on the National RIF Reader and the winner of the
RIF poster contest, who were honored at the event.

A RIF Family Reading Fair, held in Washington, D.C.,
drew a large crowd of children and their parents. Hosted
by the convention of the American Booksellers Associa-
tion, the fair was sponsored by the Bantam/Doubleday/
Dell Publishing Group. Several children’s authors—Jill

200

Krementz, Tomie dePaola, Betsy Haynes, Lois Lowry,
and Francine Pascal—were on hand to autograph books.
The fair also featured games, reading crafts, storytellers,
a dance historian, a riddle-maker, a puppet theater, and
a country-western band. The activities ended with a RIF
book distribution.

The annual Waldenbooks Golf and Tennis Tourna-
ment to benefit RIF was held once again at the Sleepy
Hollow Country Club in Scarborough-on-Hudson, New
York. The tournament attracted more than 200 publish-
ing executives and other members of the book commu-
nity, who paid to compete in the benefit event.

Mrs. Elliot Richardson, RIF chairman, was honored
by WETA Broadcasting Company and the Library of
Congress for her outstanding contribution to encourage
reading and improve literacy among children. Mrs.
Richardson was cited for her efforts at a ceremony held
in the Children’s Literature Center of the Library of
Congress.

The Women’s National Book Association (WNBA)
named RIF President Ruth Graves winner of one of the
WNBA Book Women Awards, the first given by the or-
ganization. On its seventieth anniversary, WNBA hon-
ored seventy outstanding women “who have made a
difference in bringing authors and their readers together.”

To mark RIF’s twentieth anniversary, the Reader’s Di-
gest Foundation sponsored a RIF survey of public figures,
celebrities, RIF volunteers, and youngsters, all of whom
were asked to name their favorite books. The Associated
Press ran an account of the replies received from Presi-
dent Reagan, cabinet members, and a host of politicians,
columnists, entertainers, sports stars, writers, and artists.
The widely circulated story helped bring national atten-
tion to RIF and its activities. The survey results were
then published by RIF under the title When We Were
Young: Favorite Books of RIF Kids, RIF Volunteers, and
Readers of Renown to commemorate the Year of the
Reader in 1987.

RIF also continued to publish materials designed to
foster reading by youngsters. With grants from the Geral-
dine R. Dodge Foundation and the Xerox Company, RIF
published three new “tips” brochures for parents. And in
April, Doubleday and Company published The RIF
Guide to Encouraging Young Readers, which is based on
the organization’s twenty years of experience and the
contributions of thousands of volunteers, and describes
more than two hundred activities for parents and
children.
Woodrow Wilson International
Center for Scholars

James H. Billington, Director*

The man who has the time, the discrimination, and the
sagacity to collect and comprehend the principal facts
and the man who must act upon them must draw near to
one another and feel that they are engaged in a common
enterprise.

Woodrow Wilson

The Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars
was created in 1968 by special act of the U.S. Congress as
a memorial to President Woodrow Wilson, “symbolizing
and strengthening the fruitful relation between the world
of learning and the world of public affairs.” An inde-
pendent entity in the Smithsonian Institution housed in
the Castle building, the center is governed by its own
presidentially appointed board of trustees and funded
from both public and private sources.

During fiscal 1987, the Woodrow Wilson International
Center for Scholars drew together eighty fellows; eighty-
five guest scholars, research scholars, and short-term
grantees; and 1,100 additional scholars, government poli-
cymakers, and leaders from corporate and professional
life who joined the center’s twenty-three major confer-
ences of the year. Another 210 shorter conferences and
formal meetings, many of which were open to the public,
involved hundreds more participants in the substantive
dialogues and discussions of the center. Fellows, selected
by open international competition, spent four to twelve
months at the center doing research on independent pro-
jects; other resident scholars undertook research for
briefer periods. All contributed in various degrees to the
center’s almost daily agenda of discussions. Center re-
search, whether a fellow’s independent project or the re-
sult of a conference, proceeded under the auspices of one
of the center’s eight programs. These programs allow the
center to organize an encyclopedic range of interdiscipli-
nary research in the humanities and social sciences by
world region—Asia, the Soviet Union, Eastern Europe,
Western Europe, the United States, Latin America—or by
transregional issues appropriate to the History, Culture,
and Society program or the International Security pro-
gram. In fiscal 1987, four programs combined the
strengths of staff and fellows for three joint conferences,
further integrating and enlarging the “common enter-

*James H. Billington, director of the Wilson Center for fourteen years,
departed the center in fiscal 1987 to become the thirteenth Librarian of
Congress. Prosser Gifford, formerly deputy director of the center, was
named acting director, effective August 1987, by the chairman of the
center’s board of trustees, William J. Baroody, Jr., until a new perma-
nent director is appointed.

prise” of the center to advance knowledge, illuminate val-
ues, and improve choices in world leadership.

Outreach

Wilson Center fellowships and guest scholarships have
accounted for at least 375 books since 1970. In 1986-87,
thirty-three books were published as a result of center
research, including Military Withdrawal from Politics: A
Comparative Study, by Talukder Maniruzzaman; Capi-
talism and Antislavery: British Mobilization in Compara-
tive Perspective, by Seymour Drescher; and Beauty,
Health, and Permanence: Environmental Politics in the
United States: 1955-1985, by Samuel P. Hays with Bar-
bara D. Hays.

To this record, the center in recent years has added a
successful category of conference volume publishing.
These books are integrated, edited collections of original
essays and papers of the center. In fiscal 1987, seven con-
ference volumes were published: The “Special Relation-
ship”: Anglo-American Relations since 1945; Strategic
Defenses and Soviet-American Relations; Russia’s Ameri-
can Colony; Spain in the 1980s; Superpower Competition
and Security in the Third World; Security in the Middle
East; and The Search for Peace and Unity in the Sudan.

The center took several major steps forward in the
1986-87 year to match its growth in conference activity
with appropriate resources for publication and dissemina-
tion of Wilson Center scholarship. In April the center
appointed its first assistant director for publishing, Shaun
Murphy. On June 3, The Wilson Center Press was estab-
lished. On July 3, The Wilson Center published the first
book to carry its imprint: The Search for Peace and
Unity in the Sudan. Wilson Center Press publications are
distributed in North America by UPA, Inc. Distribution
outside North America is arranged on a title-by-title basis
with foreign publishers considered most effective for
translation and dissemination. By September 30, the pub-
lishing program had fifteen manuscripts in editing and
production as hardcover and paperback books.

During this period, the center also developed an ar-
rangement with Cambridge University Press for a Wilson
Center Series. Approximately six books annually will be
published by Cambridge under the joint colophon of The
Wilson Center and Cambridge University Press. Thus,
books of particularly strong international interest will be
able to benefit from the most extensive distribution sys-
tem currently available to books, reaching an estimated
154 countries.
Two other actions strengthened the center’s outreach
strategy. The center purchased the Xerox Ventura desk-
top publishing system to develop newsletters, and opened
discussions in May with the United States Information
Agency for representation of Wilson Center books and
periodicals in USIA exhibits worldwide. An active work-
ing relationship developed in the following months, with
The Wilson Center providing publications for display at
the Moscow Book Fair, September 8-14, and becoming a
prominent participant in USIA’s newly expanded and re-
designed national exhibition at the Frankfurt Interna-
tional Book Fair, held immediately after the 1987 fiscal
year, October 6-12.

In June 1987, the Smithsonian Institution Press pub-
lished Scholars’ Guide to Washington, D.C., for Cartog-
raphy and Remote Sensing Imagery, the twelth volume in
the center’s reference book series directing scholars to
Washington, D.C., research resources.

The Wilson Quarterly, with paid circulation of more
than 108,000, continued in its eleventh year to attract the
largest number of subscribers of any scholarly journal in
the nation.

Conferences and Meetings

Of the 233 conferences and meetings sponsored by the
center in fiscal 1987, some deserve special mention.
Among the first conferences of the year was “Japan, Asia,
and the Western Cultural Imagination,” which explored
Japanese cultural relations with other Asian nations and
how these ties are perceived by Western scholars. Speak-
ers included John W. Hall, emeritus professor of history
at Yale University; Robert E. Ward, director of the Cen-
ter for Research in International Studies at Stanford Uni-
versity; Albert Craig, professor of history at Harvard
University; Marius B. Jansen, professor of history at
Princeton University; Mark Peattie, professor of history
at the University of Massachusetts, Boston; Ben-Ami
Shillony, professor of history at the Hebrew University of
Jerusalem; Thomas R. H. Havens, director of Asian
Studies at Connecticut College; Ronald A. Morse, secre-
tary of the Asia Program at the Wilson Center; and Daik-
ichi Irokawa, professor of intellectual history at Tokyo
University of Economics.

U.S. Secretary of State George Schultz was among the
speakers at a three-day conference in November that
commemorated the fortieth anniversary of the Fulbright
scholar program. Entitled “Minds without Borders: Edu-
cational and Cultural Exchange in the Twentieth Cen-

202

tury,” the conference was cosponsored by the Wilson
Center, the U.S. Information Agency, the Board of For-
eign Scholarships, and the Smithsonian Institution, which
hosted a reception for participants at the National Air
and Space Museum.

Another conference held in November, “The European
Neutrals,” focused on the dual challenge confronting
Austria, Finland, Sweden, Ireland, and Switzerland:
maintaining a credible armed neutrality in a complex
strategic environment and upholding political neutrality
when economic conditions require international collabo-
ration. Speakers included Paavo Vayrynen, foreign minis-
ter of Finland; Rozanne Ridgway, U.S. assistant secretary
of state for European and Canadian affairs; Gerald Hin-
teregger, secretary-general of the Austrian Foreign Minis-
try; and Edouard Brunner, state secretary of the Swiss
Federal Department for Foreign Affairs.

China’s purchases of U.S. technology have been in-
creasing, and U.S. manufacturers are finding it easier to
do business in the world’s most populous nation, as
lower-level Chinese enterprises exert more authority over
their purchasing decisions. That consensus was one of
several reached at an April conference on “Technology
Transfer to China in Comparative Perspective.” Speakers
at the meeting were Otto Schnepp, professor of chemistry
at the University of Southern California; Roy Grow, pro-
fessor of political science at Carleton College; William
Fischer, professor of operations management at the Uni-
versity of North Carolina, Chapel Hill; Martha Harris,
senior analyst at the Office of Technology Assessment,
U.S. Congress; Marshall Goldman, professor of econom-
ics at Wellesley College; and Denis Simon, assistant pro-
fessor of management and technology at the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology.

President Mario Soares of Portugal was one of the
many participants in the center’s four-day conference on
“Portugal: Ancient Country, Young Democracy.” Discus-
sions at the May conference centered on the country’s
ongoing modernization and its broad cultural renais-
sance, as well as the broad range of views that character-
ize Portuguese politics. In addition to President Soares,
speakers included Senator Claiborne Pell of Rhode Is-
land; Congressman Tony Coelho of California; then-
National Security Adviser Frank Carlucci; Vitor Constan-
cio, secretary-general of the Socialist Party, Portugal;
Jodo Mota Amaral, president of the Regional Govern-
ment of the Azores; and Alberto Jodo Jardim, president
of the Regional Government of Madeira.

At an October dinner meeting, Saburo Okita, former
foreign minister of Japan and former Wilson Center fel-
low, focused on his country’s international leadership
strategy for the next decade. Other activities included the
dinner discussion “Reflections on Russia and the Rus-
sians” (November), by George F. Kennan, former U.S.
ambassador to the Soviet Union, and the evening dia-
logue on “Drugs in America: What Have We Learned
from Old Battles? What Can We Do in Future Battles?”
(January). Participants were David F. Musto, professor
of psychiatry and history at Yale University; Daniel X.
Freedman, professor of psychiatry and pharmacology at
the University of California, Los Angeles; and Louis
Dupré, professor of religious studies at Yale University.

The ambassadors of five South Asian nations to the
United States engaged in the Wilson Center seminar on
“New Dimensions of Regional Cooperation in South
Asia” (February). The diplomat participants were
A. Z. M. Obaidullah Khan, of the People’s Republic of
Bangladesh; B. K. Kaul, of India; Bishwa Pradhan, of
Nepal; Jamsheed K. A. Marker, of Pakistan; and Susanta
De Alwis, of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri
Lanka. A few days later, attention shifted to West Ger-
many, as Hildegard Hamm-Brticher, a member of the
West German Bundestag, appraised the state of democ-
racy in her country after four decades.

“American History: Black and White” (May) was the
topic of an evening dialogue led by John Hope Franklin,
emeritus professor of history at Duke University, and C.
Vann Woodward, emeritus professor of history at Yale
University. Marking the twentieth anniversary of the As-
sociation of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN), a Wilson
Center gathering in May evaluated the future of regional
cooperation in that area of the world. Participants in-
cluded Phan Wannamethee, former secretary-general of
the ASEAN Secretariat; Robert O. Tilman, professor of
political science at North Carolina State University, Ral-
eigh; and Donald K. Emmerson, director of the Asian
Studies Center at the University of Wisconsin, Madison,
and a former guest scholar at the center.

A dinner discussion examined “Lessons from the Fall
and Rise of Nations: The Future of America” (June);
among the participants were Paul M. Kennedy, professor
of history at Yale University; Richard Rosecrance, pro-

fessor of international and comparative studies at Cornell
University and then a Wilson Center fellow; Richard
Lamm, former governor of Colorado; and Clyde Pres-
towitz, former counselor to the U.S. Secretary of Com-
merce and a former Wilson Center fellow. Smithsonian
Institution Secretary Robert McC. Adams was joined by
Beatrice Medicine, professor of anthropology at the Uni-
versity of Calgary, and Alphonso Ortiz, professor of an-
thropology at the University of New Mexico, to discuss
“Sacred Objects: To Whom Do They Belong?” (June).

Fellows

The Wilson Center’s fellows in fiscal 1987 came from
countries all over the world, as well as from all regions of
the United States. Fellows’ research projects encompassed
a wide array of questions in the spheres of scholarship
and policymaking. Among the 1987 fellows were Marx
W. Wartofsky, distinguished professor of philosophy at
the City University of New York, who studied the genesis
and development of human cognition; Rhys L. Isaac, La-
trobe University, Australia, who conducted research on
the American Enlightenment; Miao Li, of the Institute of
American Studies of the Chinese Academy of Social Sci-
ences, who studied the role of the mass media in Ameri-
can society; Leslie Bethell, professor of Latin American
history at the University of London and editor of the
Cambridge History of Latin America, who examined
events in Latin America during 1945 and 1946; José Man-
uel Donoso, writer from Santiago, Chile; Gabriel Goro-
detsky, senior research fellow at Tel Aviv University,
who concentrated on the origins of the Cold War; José P.
Leviste, Jr., vice-chairman and secretary-general of the
Pacific Futures Development Center, the Philippines;
Richard Newton Rosecrance, Walter S. Carpenter Profes-
sor of International and Comparative Studies at Cornell
University; Jadwiga Staniszkis, adjunct professor of soci-
ology at the University of Warsaw; William Armistead
Christian, Jr., writer, Las Palmas, Spain; and Timothy
Garton Ash, foreign editor of the Spectator, London.
John F. Kennedy Center
for the Performing Arts

Woodrow Wilson
International Center
for Scholars

|
|
| National Gallery of Art
|
|

4

SMITHSONIAN

BOARD OF REGENTS

SECRETARIAT* THE SECRETARY*
Office of UNDER SECRETARY*
AUDITS AND

INVESTIGATIONS

TREASURER*

Business Management Office
Concessions
Mail Order Division
Office of Product Licensing
Smithsonian Museum Shops

Office of Accounting and
Financial Services

Office of Financial Management
and Planning

Office of Risk Management

Assistant Secretary for
RESEARCH*

Joseph Henry Papers
National Zoological Park
Office of American Studies
Office of Fellowships and Grants
Office of International Activities **
International Center
Office of Publications Exchange
Office of Service and Protocol
International Environmental Science Program
Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory
Smithsonian Environmental Research Center
Smithsonian Institution Archives
Smithsonian Institution Libraries
Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute

*Secretary’s Management Committee.
** As of August 1, 1987.

204

GENERAL COUNSEL*

Assistant Secretary for
MUSEUMS*

Anacostia Museum

Archives of American Art

Arthur M. Sackler Gallery and

Freer Gallery of Art

Conservation Analytical Laboratory

Cooper-Hewitt Museum

Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden

National Air and Space Museum

National Museum of African Art

National Museum of American Art
Renwick Gallery

National Museum of American History

National Museum of Natural History/
National Museum of Man

National Portrait Gallery

Office of Exhibits Central

Office of Horticulture

Office of Museum Programs

Office of the Registrar

Smithsonian Institution Traveling
Exhibition Service
INSTITUTION

Archives of American Art
Board of Trustees

Arthur M. Sackler Gallery
Visiting Committee

Board of Fellowships and Grants
Committee for a Wider Audience

Cooper-Hewitt Museum
Advisory Council

Cultural Education Committee

BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS

Hirshhorn Museum and
Sculpture Garden Commission
Board of Trustees

National Portrait Gallery

Horticultural Advisory Committee | Commission

Joint Sponsoring Committee for Office of Museum Programs
National Advisory Committee

the Papers of Joseph Henry

National Air and Space Museum Smithsonian Council

Advisory Board

Smithsonian Institution
Women’s Council

National Board of the
Smithsonian Associates

National Museum of American Art

Folklife Advisory Council

Freer Visiting Committee

Assistant Secretary for
PUBLIC SER VICE*

National Science Resources Center
Office of the Committee for a Wider Audience
Office of Elementary and Secondary Education
Office of Interdisciplinary Studies
Office of Folklife Programs
Office of Public Affairs
Office of Smithsonian Symposia and Seminars
Office of Telecommunications
Smithsonian Institution Press
Smithsonian Magazine
Visitor Information and Associates’
Reception Center

September 1987

National Museum of African Art

Smithsonian Institution
Internship Council

Women’s Committee of the
Smithsonian Associates

Director of
MEMBERSHIP AND DEVELOPMENT*

Office of Membership and Development
Smithsonian National Associate Program
Smithsonian Resident Associate Program

Assistant Secretary for
ADMINISTRATION*

Office of Congressional Liaison*
Contracts Office
Management Analysis Office
National Demonstration Laboratory for Interactive
Educational Technologies
Office of Equal Opportunity
Office of Facilities Services
Office of Architectural History
and Historic Preservation
Office of Design and Construction
Office of Environmental Management and Safety
Office of Plant Services
Office of Protection Services
Office of Information Resource Management
Office of Personnel Administration
Office of Printing and Photographic Services
Office of Procurement and Property Management
Office of Programming and Budget
Office of Special Events
Office of Supply Services
Travel Services Office
Cover: View of S. Dillon Ripley Center and
Enid A. Haupt Garden.
(Photograph by Nick Wheeler)

Frontispiece: Aerial view of the Enid A. Haupt Garden in
front of the Smithsonian Institution Building (the “Castle”).
(Photograph by Jeff Tinsley)

For sale by the Superintendent of Documents,

U.S. Government Printing Office, Washington, D.C. 20402
(paper cover)

Stock number: 047-000-00405-5

206
a
| HW
Hn Fete ael

Be aoe vet

eal Shi oe
ao) '
: ‘
stedtetel tabche z petite f : u s ee ie
iba ite i G 4 i : .
fs ttt Fad :
hee ”

“auiyactouineticd :
otgoemeene cuareis ae
veqdihanatetoned
ahieaiat tue

iad tedad i sf ( : fe Herd
Shalt pee i : Rasahe fi , f 3 ‘ af
atubaten,

dete : ee ‘ at
sitisnuhcoasbebea Vane ; 2a
saa Eeetats be

HDs Fae Bestee : ; eal
Seep F % i

ieesegtatarge
eat
tetas
Baareeariay
Pare hes
REA
re TAs
SEs RSs sae
We\runpracirgeprassieueety ss
aes
Valttedty arent :
Suite :
ar aesat py ‘ :
rtety te :
ECE. '
SEES MG ue ei’
yt ee it Lhe
ne
caus i < ’ ; : '
yatarge : ’ on vay.
raroemueireat gt ’
tise ‘ Seis >
vate reat Y ‘ 4 Neue! % i ‘ : : y
ere aye! viet ‘ 5 ; . : wh
Viner ye yuanee ye Rare ! : ’
ea ptetnt at tyre! EE ees ie “ ’ i
rerwee Roe 5
eee te ty

ay,
yeatatacu ue 3 ciy (i Y

curren y oe ' *

otea oreratuste ne a

ry vary ara
w
Ed

§

me

F
,
ra ‘ ee =
Pes 3 = pe
as Bed wo _
es # Y
on

y 1s & _

A] & ee

—— -

