bis
pate
ee mT
pi (Aen,
a
meastig meme
Z sa
a 7
Ea an:
Sa: aan

‘epoerg,

= wookal

ai aor,
a Hl =
ot
Pa aes
oer
ree Pineal

one
one to

a0

ont

™
na)
Pie tate? of Ree ee Ba
rote 2.

Sage thet ls as
Patt iu tremedetin Me tonite

Sate he
nr eden

a
But Wille Oatad

Wi bees
Fa dn butted det
an Pat ot
Mp es ON amin I Es

ete

PO ae

ath Beth othe as othe

0 aad AIR cnn at NM Bebe
neha Mo b Pet Nallad iets Mote rei
Mee buted ont Hermlte dato @
Pa tated aie Putty am Solon tials
athe,
races
Sree ean See

pre Time "
pleat Oe ears
ey

tn ened
a leet tube ta
Sein te baton on

obate
rote!

te one

ree a stale deeb Ah
~ ws

eke tee Mes
pate tele, ie eletints
ita

|

BOSTON PUBLIC LIBRARY

i

|

corer
wee

ref etre tho
cs

o ~
de 8? he oe Feeds he
pate ae

Malt Ode ti

LOA em Ay Ba ely

Be oe the Shatin teen ma
ttre ; Sone Be

paper ort er On
are ee Oe

npr ey Wer
Fara
rer eons

oes
erate anise

He ook OM ae “
oe eH, Mow
Tce 0 48 ON AE oh a ahh

ath ve me ee ae dd 08 Uh an bag
7

Se tee Bevin dl
MRI ed
Am wee
eh PH eh Pe
hm ote thes

Petey oe
%; Ciaran

‘iad OY te

mada ante bet

Prerare sce for g

hey eee

ANS AD

fore RAAB be nt PN A ete IN REE oh TEN

a ot.

aes
ees Fm kh a

here ett
bie Lot bn fa
ape at th he

ASS gnes Fre arth.
Annmae

ere to
en eee ead

es tes

mee
ry

Ay, A dR 2
ein tha on Me
rwren

ad ab AR me A
tom th

eh Heakat
Rah A 0 ay Ml

canny
cai ih A ah

rer
renee
eee nw eee

ey Man oS 5
NE ay DANA A
RA
kA Rela that Paattaltlar
ak Sette

*
hoe anes eke gabe Shot AD Ssh ane
het oben
ornate wae
aie te

feria er, Pre ont. ©) Pera
Nal ther lk 4,

cymes
MAM wt ee
eer Sey

—

Aa
Ronee rs

ARR

ae eet

ras
Aroma e Balts toh.
So ato tow beaten a 0 al
ST Ragan ee een tet

phe A
ec 8 Maat ar

NaF hts Senile agains Wotan
Se
Rae

neces ey teas Neg atm

Aone

SMITHSONIAN ©
YEAR.
1965
ay
Sree

nee

rar a Hi are

pi i
ee icra
Drie re H

\ ny mae Suva untae : Rae ot
ff nu i
pty i ie a Ne an asd ee
| ut a i i Py ea Nhe alta di |
vid nit Lie ba | io - ; A i i
yoen By: Mn it a te
. | i ae aa Wiens lath
\ Mist

it
a

ih he

Smithsonian Year
1965

ANNUAL REPORT OF THE
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION FOR THE YEAR
ENDED JUNE 30, 1965, INCLUDING THE
PINANCIAL REPORT, OF .THE , EXECUTIVE
COMMITTEE OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
Washington 1965
With this, the first issue of the Annual Report of the Secretary of the Smith-
sonian Institution to appear under the general title THE SMITHSONIAN
YEAR, certain changes have been instituted in the procedures pertaining to
Smithsonian annual reports:

1. The Annual Report of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution (now
THE SMITHSONIAN YEAR) will no longer be followed by the green-
bound volume containing the General Appendix of articles in the sciences
and the arts. The last of the old series is that for 1964.

2. The objectives of the General Appendix, according to present plans, will be
met by an annual volume in the nature of a Smithsonian yearbook, an
anthology of distinguished and important contributions to the sciences and
the arts written by authorities in their fields and presented for the general
reader. The first of these yearbooks will appear in the spring of 1966 and
may be purchased. It will contain the eleven addresses delivered at the
scholarly sessions of the Smithson Bicentennial Celebration held in Wash-
ington in September 1965.

3. The Report of the United States National Museum will no longer be issued
initially as a separate document but incorporated in THE SMITH-
SONIAN YEAR together with the reports of the other branches of the
Smithsonian. Reprints of each of the agency reports will be available.

SMITHSONIAN PUBLICATION 4648
Contents

BREE AOMABERE, sie) adi i soeedl Joel weak Vy «
ae suatnsonian Institution):; o-:iisms0- senel.rawtl. . .
Siatement by the, Secretary: ;. |. ves ed) simi ON EL rons
United States National Museum ...........
Museum of Natural History. ...........
Research and-Publications;::,9.. j.ownl:2 A nie)
Whe Collections 47) 3.) S-agsin4 Seal ovens
Exhibltsse;irsived sia vecisviak Sacanal eee
Museum of History and Technology ........
Research and‘ Publications 02 . <4. Geass .v4
ahe Collections), of. :!éekt Jos miseso4 6 naa sre
eee) ose Ue eae ee. et, Wecsle> -
BeEEOTASELVICCS <<. : Puce aes iia) «ec
International Exchange Service... .........
MmationalAoclogical Parts... 0) Secomyane aederisiey ers
Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory ........
manonal Collection of Fine Arts. <0. 5.0%. «> « «
ROARS MMCEUO SEES Lg tothe Deh cel Choe? (9a) oNegel an
matical Galleryor Art 10/5050 ie AOR Lies Ao
@anal Zone Biglogieal Area). 2fi2i OM wT
Dational AicMaeseums!. desc! 2 sesrar ape) aeel ter sos
John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts
Geatemaieorirat Gallery, ... iscie. « « sms syn spe
micedion biolosy Laboratory i. 50 0 af ena fe eg get ets
Metter Patormation Exelange y 27... |. ee le ee
National Armed Forces Museum Advisory Board
Seaitnsonian Museum Service . bo..0 4 Js 4s + ahs
Saathsonian Institution Library ....... s.........
Euplicationsiand Information |...) -acie.wy. wees.
Report of the Executive Committee of the Board of Regents

Staff of the Smithsonian Institution . .

oe see ee beh ee
The Establishment

Lynpon B. Jounson, President of the United States
Husert H. Humpurey, Vice President of the United States
EARL WarREN, Chief Justice of the United States
Dean Rusk, Secretary of State
Henry H. Fow ter, Secretary of the Treasury
Rosert S. McNamara, Secretary of Defense

NIcHOLAS DE B. KaTzENBACH, Attorney General
Joun A. Gronouski, Postmaster General
Stewart L. UDALL, Secretary of the Interior
OrvIt_LE L. FREEMAN, Secretary of Agriculture
Joun T. Connor, Secretary of Commerce
W. WILLARD WirTz, Secretary of Labor
ANTHONY J. CELEBREZZE, Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare

The Smithsonian Institution was created by act of Congress in
1846, in accordance with the terms of the will of James Smithson,
of England, who in 1826 bequeathed his property to the United
States of America ‘“‘to found at Washington, under the name
of the Smithsonian Institution, an establishment for the increase
and diffusion of knowledge among men.” In receiving the
property and accepting the trust, Congress determined that the
Federal Government was without authority to administer the
trust directly, and, therefore, constituted an ‘‘establishment,”’
whose statutory members are ‘‘the President, the Vice President,
the Chief Justice, and the heads of the executive departments.”
The Smithsonian Institution

Presiding officer ex officio
Chancellor

Regents of the Institution

Executive Committee

Secretary
Assistant Secretaries

June 30, 1965

Lynpon B. Jounson, President of the United
States

EARL WarrEN, Chief Justice of the United
States

Ear~t WarrREN, Chief Justice of the United
States, Chancellor

Husert H. Humpurey, Vice President of the
United States

Cuinton P. ANDERSON, Member of the Senate

J. Witutam Futsricut, Member of the Senate

LEVERETT SALTONSTALL, Member of the Senate

Frank T. Bow, Member of the House of
Representatives

MIcHAEL J. Kirwan, Member of the House of
Representatives

GeorcE H. Manon, Member of the House of
Representatives

Joun Nicuotas Brown, citizen of Rhode Island

WituiaM A. M. Burben, citizen of New York

RosBert V. FLEMING, citizen of Washington,
DC:

CRAWFORD H. GREENEWALT, citizen of Dela-
ware

Caryt P. Haskins, citizen of Washington, D.C.

JEROME C. HuNSAKER, citizen of Massachusetts

Rosert V. Fieminc, Chairman, Ciinton P.
ANDERSON, CARYL P. HASKINS

S. Ditton RIPLEY

James Brab ey, Assistant Secretary (Admin-
istration)

T. Dae Stewart, Acting Assistant Secretary
(Science)
a

ponn ea! sreiuabarlatrtr® il

cdg) er anu

‘Mahia dad what Tee
ition’ } ons Wwauabhiorl aici Ps doce ty, 1 eae
| . eae ap
Baia ode Yo sbinnte Fehr Ahaowatnibbctio sh
esha seta yy OP Tae

Royviens aly ta edi Seika » lado payin tard Ural

qullnccatO), ArmBwrrer is a af
det ies. sarah tg a ORE hee satan Fiat Pe stern

‘Weed? Danian of Aah i
at ree) ee Aamir 4 ecreurgty ‘ms lae
since sult Fo toda he Vera oad OE syey a Entice
<a eA Stns Balan ree eerc sian Dt tis
ln’ gegalt off la Feds wet T shen

x ’ '
aiecyae, qy3

soy eines TA. mi
io sneha NeatyAN sodas ih eure Gzamente by oo
‘ _ ile saints bevel o i

in apeniiel ait A per ghd, neat J uae, opt :

Ee SRY MRS: | “
4 yk tAuThs 7 | , j

baited aie: i ip ee a va
shy weet Vn Weenie” eerctanath Sah alent
cake dap Te nes waa st ov iorechiele SN ty
ni myn We MARIE Ue

eal peainip, eas ‘inverse bE Sy iat: nts re |

a roraniitnW te éssitia hakeanD. q 459
Houma Me costly “wamenatTH eee

 sagisee tletasind!D’: ‘pictie. 28 ea, CRU LN
amseadd Sve), noensanclt

Paste msi

“eioabA) eaclnass vA COTA BRM,

; Creed asta :

wad salah mab itawaré SOE
baaaxese: a an

Statement by the Secretary
7
|

yisionsed Si) yd ter

2

fj e«

Pa

-

Music on the Mall for summer visitors to Washington and the Smithsonian

is heralded by tower music—trumpets playing on the north portico of the
Smithsonian Building.

An audience of 12,000 at a Music on the Mall concert in summer 1965 heard
the National Symphony Orchestra, under Howard Mitchell, play Aaron
Copeland’s Lincoln Portrait. ‘The late Ambassador to the United Nations,

Adlai E. Stevenson, was narrator.

Statement by the Secretary

S. Ditton RieLey

In presenting this report in the year 1965, which marks the two-
hundredth anniversary of the birth of James Smithson, it is
appropriate to turn back to some of the thoughts of Joseph
Henry, the first Secretary, who labored to make the Institution
truly a center for “enlarging the bounds of human thought.”
This year it has been my privilege, representing the Institution,
to testify before a Congressional Subcommittee on Science,
Research, and Development on the subject of the National
Science Foundation. One of the topics of that testimony was
the increasing need for supporting basic rather than applied
research. In 1854 Professor Henry was much concerned about
the state of the increase of knowledge in America, one of the
foundation stones of James Smithson’s famous will. Joseph
Henry felt that comparatively little encouragement was being
given to the “‘increase”’ of knowledge. As he wrote: “As soon
as any branch of science can be brought to bear on the neces-
sities, conveniences, or luxuries of life, it meets with encourage-
ment and reward. Not so with the discovery of the incipient
principles of science. The investigations which lead to these
receive no fostering care from government, and are considered
by the superficial observer as trifles unworthy the attention of
those who place the supreme good in that which immediately
administers to the physical necessities or luxuries of life.”

As he further stated, the Institution has “two fundamental
maxims . . . to do nothing with its funds which can equally
well be done by other means; and, second, to produce results
which, as far as possible, will benefit mankind in general”
(hence our interest in basic research). What then are the ac-
tivities with which the Smithsonian staff feels it can primarily
concern itself and what have been some of the results in the past
year?

789-427—_66——_3
2 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965

In the science field noteworthy activities of the Museum of
Natural History staff included the following:

In a paper to be published in a forthcoming issue of Deep Sea
Research the first occurrence of a deepwater coral structure out-
side of the North Atlantic is recorded. ‘This structure was dis-
covered by Dr. Donald F. Squires in the Sub-Antarctic Islands
of New Zealand while he was cooperating with the New Zealand
Oceanographic Institute’s oceanographic program in that region.
Coupling his knowledge of living coral structures of the eastern
coast of the United States with study of the deepwater fossil
structure in New Zealand, Dr. Squires was able to postulate
sequences in the development of the coral structure. Stages of
development lead from a colony of coral up to several meters in
diameter through the accumulation of dead skeletal material and
living animals in distinctive communities to form a coral bank
several kilometers in diameter and as high as 50-60 meters.
Intermediate stages of development, termed “thicket”? and
“coppice,” have been identified in the fossil record.

Several important scientific discoveries were made by the
department of mineral sciences during the past year. These
include the discovery by Dr. Kurt Fredriksson, division of
meteorites, of a glass with inclusions of metallic nickel-iron in
the Chainpur chondrite. This discovery, which was studied in
detail with the division’s new electron microprobe, is of funda-
mental importance in determining the origin of chondrules and
of chondritic meteorities in general.

As part of a cooperative study with Woods Hole and Scripps
Oceanographic Institutions, Dr. William G. Melson of the divi-
sion of petrology discovered metabasalts in ocean dredge
samples from the Mid-Atlantic Ridge. Such rocks may require
modifications of existing theories about the origin of the Mid-
Atlantic Ridge, and about processes of rock formation beneath
the sea floor.

While participating in the Bredin-Archbold-Smithsonian
Biological Survey of Dominica, entomologist Paul Spangler dis-
covered for the first time the presence on the island of the snail
Planorbina glabrata (Say), the intermediate host of the principal
helminthic disease of man, schistosomiasis.
STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY 3

In a study of yucca moths, Dr. Donald R. Davis has proved
beyond doubt the close relationship between agave and yucca
through the habits of the moths. The two genera of plants have
always been placed in two families, but the evidence concerning
the moths suggests that the two genera of plants should be
associated in one.

In a study of material collected on the mid-Pacific Island of
Rapa, Dr. J. F. Gates Clarke has found that an ancient connec-
tion between the fauna of Rapa with those of Australia, New
Zealand, and South Africa is apparent.

In the area of anthropology Dr. K. V. Flannery’s preliminary
research in the Valley of Oaxaca, southern Mexico, has verified
the presence in many of the caves and rockshelters of abundant
perishable remains of human occupation, and has determined
that the corn cobs, cactus fruits, fragments of squash, etc., and
associated artifacts came from the period 6500-2500 B.C.
During this time the development of domesticated plants and
of techniques for growing them provided the basis of the all
important change to settled village life, rapid population growth,
and increasingly complex socioeconomic and religious systems.
Thus Oaxaca joins a few other localities in Mexico in developing
the prerequisities of civilization as we presently are inclined to
describe it.

Dr. W. H. Crocker continued his field work among the Canela
Indians of Brazil. He found that under the pressure of expand-
ing non-Indian settlement and the destruction of their simple
way of life, they were experiencing a messianic movement, led
by a prophetess whom he was able to study at first hand. Rarely
has a social scientist been able to observe at close quarters the
social, psychological, and ecological revolution that a people
undergoes with the impact of shattering external contacts—a
microcosm of much of the upheaval today throughout the
world’s developing nations.

For more than 19 years the Smithsonian has administered the
Panama Canal Zone Biological area, whose scientists are engaged
primarily in behavioral and ecological studies. Four Smith-
sonian staff members are currently employed. Dr. Martin
Moynihan is investigating the evolution of behavior in New
World primates and passerines, particularly the evolution of
4 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965

social signal systems. Dr. Robert Dressler is continuing his
work on the pollination relationships among the New World
orchids. Dr. Neal Smith is studying the evolution and genetics
of egg-mimicry in parasitic cuckoos, and has initiated a study of
avian species diversity in tropical grasslands. The newest
member of the staff, Dr. Stanley Rand, is continuing his studies
on the ecology of iguanid lizards and has begun investigating
the role of vocalizations in the social organization of certain
neotropical frogs.

The Institution’s Radiation Biology Laboratory investigates
the direct effects upon, or the indirect control of the functions of,
living organisms by radiation. One of the significant achieve-
ments has been the development of instrumentation to measure
the spectral quality of sunlight, in 100-millimicron bands, from
sunrise to sunset throughout the year. The data that are being
accumulated by means of this instrumentation have been cited
as urgently needed by biologists who deal with light as an
environmental factor. Advances have been made in other areas
of the research program, such as additional information toward
determining the chemical structure of polyphosphate com-
pounds in marine organisms and algae, the light-stimulated
metabolism of sugars in plant development, and improved
techniques for removing radioactive radon from carbon-dating
samples so that samples may be counted without the 30-day
delay previously necessary.

During the past year’s work at the Smithsonian’s Astrophysical
Observatory satellite-tracking data from the Baker-Nunn
cameras at the 12 astrophysical observing stations were used to
make more accurate determinations of the gravitational poten-
tial of the earth, and of the station positions. Analyses of
atmospheric drag on satellites and the atmospheric variations
deduced from it have been completed for half a solar cycle from
the maximum of solar activity during the International Geo-
physical Year through the minimum during the International
Year of the Quiet Sun. Baker-Nunn photographs of comets
are being reduced in studies of tail motions and brightness as a
function of solar activity. ‘The camera network also continues to
observe flare stars. The Prairie Network of automatic cameras
for simultaneous photography of very bright meteors went into
STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY 5

full operation this year and has already collected significant
data. The Harvard-Smithsonian Meteor Radar Network has
been improved to achieve greater sensitivity and accuracy.
Observations of artificial meteors launched from Wallops
Island have been made, and the data are being reduced. New
measurements of radioactive and stable isotopes in meteorites
and in dust samples from the Greenland Ice-Cap and elsewhere
have been carried out. In theoretical astrophysics, studies of
stellar atmospheres and of very massive and very dense systems
continue. Of the observatory’s flight experiments, the proto-
type of Project Celescope is undergoing environmental testing
while flight hardware is being constructed, a spark-chamber for
detection of gamma rays during balloon flights has been fabri-
cated and is now being tested and calibrated.

In American studies, a wide variety of techniques were
employed in field, laboratory, and library to advance the research
program of the Museum of History and Technology. Among the
year’s accomplishments have been the perfection of underwater
surveying and measuring methods by Mendel L. Peterson in
exploring a late 16th-century shipwreck off Bermuda; the use
of tape recorder and camera by Mr. and Mrs. C. Malcolm
Watkins in recording the survival of folk potterymaking in
Moore County, North Carolina; and the completion of a 700-
page manuscript, The Origins of Chemistry, based upon studies of
archival and printed sources, by Dr. Robert P. Multhauf. In
addition, John C. Ewers has prepared a book, Arizsts of the Old
West, profusely illustrated with reproductions in black-and-white
and color of historically significant drawings and paintings
from museum collections of the United States, Canada, and
Europe.

A hallmark of the Smithsonian’s research enterprise is that it
draws upon a highly diverse community of scholars whose con-
certed efforts can transcend narrow disciplinary approaches to
learning. It undertakes to pursue those courses of investigation
uniquely suited to its institutional character, especially those
which illuminate the ways in which diverse areas of knowledge
are interdependent. An example of this lies in the character
and collections of the Freer Gallery of Art. As always, research
has been the primary activity. Man’s history and culture; the
6 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965

organization of life; the nature of the universe: these are time-
less questions. For more than a century they have been the
central concerns of Smithsonian research.

The major joint effort this past year, occupying three Freer
staff members, has been devoted to the final stages of the cata-
logue of Chinese ceremonial bronzes which has been in prepara-
tion for some time. Individual projects range through such
diverse fields as History of Pigments and Coloring Materials,
Biographical Studies of Chinese Painters, Buddhist Wall Paint-
ings in Afghanistan, Yamatoe Painting and Design in Japan,
Dionysiac Elements in Sasanian Art, and Early Distribution
of Chinese and Japanese Porcelain in World Trade. The
traditional close collaboration with the University of Michigan
in the teaching of oriental art has been maintained; and two
curators have taught regularly scheduled courses at the New York
University and Johns Hopkins University. A Freer staff member
has been active on the American committee planning the great
exhibition to be sent to this country by the Japanese Govern-
ment in the coming year and has also supervised the preparation
of the catalogue.

The preceding are all examples of research in which part of
the staff happen to be concerning themselves. Much of this
research depends upon collections of objects which already
belong to the Smithsonian, those 57 million objects so often
referred to, that vast accretion. Some, like the original Wilkes
Exploring Expedition collections arrived fortuitously and were
thrust upon the Institution. Some, like insects from the Island
of Dominica recently collected, have been eagerly sought
after by Smithsonian scientists as evidence of the principles of
evolution. It should never be forgotten that the collections of
the Institution are intended for original investigation. The
Nation has no need of an attic as such, nor should any curator be
charged simply with housekeeping or janitorial tasks.

In our efforts to maintain the levels of excellence to which the
Smithsonian justly lays claim we must demonstrate to the Nation
and to international scholarship our valid and continuing stew-
ardship of these collections through research. The technical
and learned staff of the Smithsonian cannot perform this notable
task alone. This is why this year we have issued the first ‘‘Re-
STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY 7

search Opportunities” pamphlet, listing some of the many pos-
sibilities in undergraduate and summer programs, in graduate
studies, and in postdoctoral research available to the Nation’s
students and scholars for study here. In this cause we are selfish.
We wish to replicate ourselves, to exhibit to others how many and
how intriguing are the avenues to the increase of knowledge
which lie within our doors. What greater pleasure could we
as scholars afford than to exhibit our collections, our objects as
source material for study? ‘To open avenues to this study
should be our primary objective. To study objects is to return
to the original wellsprings, like the documents and manu-
scripts preserved in a library. The objects are our archives.
From them we can construct concepts about the very nature of
man himself and that “invisible wall which bounds the prison
of our knowledge.”

Without such a positive attitude toward our collections not
only will we never be through curating them but we will never
have properly evoked the knowledge which lies within our
grasp in their constructive study. Anthropologists know this.
The dwindling realms of primitive peoples, people who live on
a different scale and time from ourselves, have yielded up vast
storehouses of ethnography, some of which has revealed truths
about patterns of human life to students from the days of Powell
and Morgan to the more contemporary, Boas, Malinowski, and
Mead. Present-day anthropology is in a quandary about peoples
and social organization. How right were some of the earlier
theorists? Should the theories not be reexamined? One way
to do it, one way to reillumine the scene with vigor and new
intellectual clarity would be to reexamine the objects themselves.
The objects at least still exist, and most of the documents,
journals, and accounts that go with them. Social anthropolo-
gists of the future will be derelict in their duty to the whole
realm of social psychology and cultural evolution if they do not
turn again to the objects, the life formulae, which can speak to
them as surely as to any artist or sculptor.

There is a relation, not tenuous, between the objects and the
thoughts they evoke and the most basic principles of education.
Somewhere in this unrealized, metaphysical half-world there
8 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965

may lie a key to the present baffling phenomenon to educators,
the problems of how to interest anyone in anything.

Today, with our national hopes and goals in education, there
is a sense of urgency in this. As part of the President’s war on
poverty and the Youth Opportunity and United Planning Or-
ganization campaigns, the Smithsonian has taken on over 100
youths in various summer programs of training opportunities.
In addition we have undertaken a voluntary Teacher Institute
for 50 social science instructors from a poverty area in order to
train these instructors in how to use the museums as teaching
tools. These are the areas of interest with which the Smith-
sonian should experiment. It may be that the Institution, as
well as museums in general, is especially qualified to develop
interests and technical skills in many young people who do not
respond to more conventional educational techniques.

We hope that this year of the observance of the bicentennial of
James Smithson’s birth will mark a reawakening of under-
standing of the role and the utility of the Smithsonian Institu-
tion in many areas little known to our people, in areas of re-
search, of the study of conservation, of knowledge of nature and
the atmosphere, of those dwindling populations of men whose
adjustment to their environment is radically different from our
own, of those dwindling populations of species of animals and
plants the world around that are becoming extinct often because
of relentless pressures unleashed by man himself. Finally, in the
world of creative art and expression the Smithsonian plays a
role in which historical studies become one, with recurring pat-
terns, with those which help to lay bare the mysteries of the
universe, and the life processes which make it up. The Smith-
sonian as it has grown and as it exists lays open a simple present
truth. There are no “‘two cultures.” We are all, scientists and
historians, concerned with a common intellectual process, not
merely with concepts of it, involving a morphology of forms and
in the end a similar testimony to “the increase of knowledge.”

The Board of Regents

The membership of the Board of Regents remained unchanged
except for the new Vice President of the United States, the
Honorable Hubert H. Humphrey, who became an ex officio
STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY 9

member on January 20, 1965, filling the seat formerly occupied
by President Lyndon B. Johnson. The roll of Regents at the
close of the fiscal year was as follows: Chief Justice of the
United States Earl Warren, Chancellor; members from the
Senate: Clinton P. Anderson, J. William Fulbright, Leverett
Saltonstall; members from the House of Representatives: Frank
T. Bow, Michael J. Kirwan, George H. Mahon; citizen mem-
bers: John Nicholas Brown, William A. M. Burden, Robert V.
Fleming, Crawford H. Greenewalt, Caryl P. Haskins, Jerome C.
Hunsaker.

The customary informal dinner meeting, preceding the annual
meeting, was held on January 27, 1965, in the reception room of
the Museum of History and Technology. Dr. Richard S.
Cowan spoke on ‘““The Smithsonian Institution’s Bredin-Arch-
bold Biological Survey of Dominica”; Mendel L. Peterson on
“New Methods of Surveying Ancient Shipwrecks”; and Dr.
I. E. Wallen on “Oceanography in the Smithsonian.”

The annual meeting was held on January 28, 1965, in the
conference room of the Museum of History and Technology.
The Secretary presented his published annual report on the
activities of the Institution. The chairman of the Executive
and Permanent Committees of the Board, Dr. Robert V.
Fleming, gave the financial report for the fiscal year ended
June 30, 1964.

The spring meeting of the Board of Regents was held on
May 19 in the conference room of the Smithsonian building.
An informal dinner followed in the newly decorated Regents’
room.

Finances

A statement of finances, dealing particularly with Smithsonian
private funds, will be found in the report of the Executive Com-
mittee of the Board of Regents, page 401.

Funds appropriated to the Institution for its regular operations
for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1965, totaled $15,540,000 and
were obligated as follows:

Astrophysical Observatory $1, 247, 610
Bureau of American Ethnology 114, 648
10 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965

Canal Zone Biological Area $179, 640
International Exchange Service 113, 330
National Air Museum 319, 601
National Armed Forces Museum Advisory Board 75, 302
National Collection of Fine Arts 158, 971
National Portrait Gallery 75, 004
United States National Museum 5, 838, 639
Office of the Secretary 395, 052
Buildings Management Department 5, 322, 564
Administrative Services 1, 677, 888
Unobligated Zt io

Besides this direct appropriation, the Institution received
funds by transfer from other Government agencies as follows:
from the District of Columbia for the National Zoological Park,
$1,738,565; from the National Park Service, Department of the
Interior, for the River Basin Surveys, $237,000.

Lectures

Stella Mary Newton, formerly consultant on historic dress
and adviser to the Restoration Department of the National
Gallery, London, England, delivered an illustrated lecture,
“Social Implications in the Costumes in Hogarth’s Paintings,”
in the auditorium of the Museum of History and Technology on
the afternoon of October 27, 1964.

Vice Admiral Friedrich O. Ruge, GN (Ret.), gave an illus-
trated lecture on ““Rommel and the Invasion of Western Europe
in 1944” in the auditorium of the Museum of Natural History
on the evening of November 23, 1964. This lecture was spon-
sored jointly by the Smithsonian Institution and the Naval
Historical Foundation.

Paul MacKendrick, professor of classics at the University of
Wisconsin, lectured on “‘Athenian Aristocracy: Archaeological
Evidence,” in the auditorium of the Museum of History and
Technology on the evening of February 11, 1965. This illus-
trated lecture was sponsored jointly by the Smithsonian Institu-
tion and the Archaeological Institute of America.

Scott Symons, assistant curator-in-charge of the Canadiana
collections, Royal Ontario Museum, Toronto, Canada, gave an
STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY 11

illustrated lecture, ‘‘French Canadiana Versus the American
Dream,” in the auditorium of the Museum of History and
Technology on the evening of February 16, 1965.

The second Edwin A. Link Lecture, ‘“The United States and
the Oceans,” was delivered by Lt. Cmdr. Don Walsh, U.S.N.,
in the auditorium of the Museum of Natural History on the eve-
ning of February 17,1965. This series of lectures, made possible
by a grant from the Link Foundation, is administered by the
Smithsonian Institution in cooperation with the U.S. Office of
Education.

Dr. A. G. W. Cameron, senior scientist, Goddard Institute
for Space Studies, Columbia University, gave the 30th Annual
James Arthur Lecture on the Sun on the evening of March 10,
1965, in the auditorium of the Freer Gallery of Art. His subject
was ““The Early History of the Sun.”

Several lectures sponsored by the Freer Gallery of Art and the
National Gallery of Art are listed in the reports of these bureaus.

Visitors

Visitors to the six buildings comprising the Smithsonian com-
plex on the Mall this year again surpassed all preceding records
with a total of 13,153,713, which was 2,340,518 more than in
fiscal 1964. August 1964, with 2,517,672, was the month of
largest attendance, and July 1964 was second with 2,250,105.
The greatest number of visitors for a single day was 109,839 on
April 19, 1965. The tabulation on page 12 gives a summary of
attendance records for the six buildings. The National
Zoological Park had an estimated 4,536,256 visitors during the
year. This figure, added to the attendance in the Institution’s
buildings on the Mall, and to the 1,253,102 recorded at the
National Gallery of Art, brings the total Smithsonian attendance
for fiscal 1965 to 18,943,071.

New Offices

Mindful of the widening horizons and varied opportunities
facing the Institution, the Smithsonian established three new
offices in the past year:
SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965

12

CL ‘ESt ‘EL

87L ‘STS ‘T
962 ‘LOE ‘TE
6Cr “619 ‘T
68 ‘6b9
v16 ‘C8
G99 ‘6SE
lvl ‘16€
8Sr ‘E19
LSI ‘6L9
689 ‘CLL
ZL9 ‘LIS ‘Z
SOL ‘0Sz ‘Z
1910T,

OLL ‘160 ‘S

0zL ‘719
78S ‘OES
9€9 “E19
ZOL ‘E1Z
056 ‘I8I
br “PST
Crs ‘99L
BES ‘897
8E7 ‘LLZ
€16 “LIE
98L ‘8h6
200 ‘908
dgojouysa J.
pup «4038177
fo unasnpy

226 ‘O1Z

GLO ‘TE
9€7 “SZ
¥9S “67
6S ‘OL
699 ‘L

9€0 ‘9

98¢ ‘L

90S ‘OL
Chr ‘LL
$87 ‘EL
802 “OE
160 ‘82

uy fo Cap

40947

€89 ‘SOL ‘T

9€8 ‘OIZ
696 ‘8S1
O19 “b0Z
708 ‘19
0€6 ‘IS
LOS ‘SE
LOL ‘Tv
L60 ‘OL
vlZ ‘EL
0SS “68
698 ‘LOE
9S “SHE

Surpying
a00g9 pun 1p

ZLb ‘TSO “€

7ST ‘OEE
85S “60€
848 ‘SOE
¥S6 ‘97
ZEL ‘LET
98¢ ‘L8

68¢ ‘L6

816 “SEI
Sp ‘LSL
$88 ‘891
189 ‘ISS
OIL ‘FOr
Furpying
dL0gStE7

josnjoyr

GLI ‘820 “%

7SL ‘€@
76E “OLT
LLL ‘192
G7S ‘LL
Ir ‘99
POL “Sr
189 ‘OS
Z0S ‘SL
br9 ‘ZOL
Ivl ‘OL
ILE ‘87h
156 “80+
surpying
Satsjsnpu if
pun sqip

S961 ‘og eunf-p96r ‘Tt Ajnf

$9 ‘S90 ‘T [eI0],

€SZ ‘LOL ounf
€9S ‘OOT Ary
0L0 ‘prt Judy
L16 ‘6¢ yore
90S “LE Areniqo,q
801 ‘IE Axenuef
6EL ‘LZ Joqui200q
L68 ‘6v JOqUIZAON
801 “LS 12q019O
ELeaes Joquia}dag
19L ‘961 jsnsny
96€ “L6L Atnf
Furpying yquoy

upiuosyjiMs

$961 UVAA TVOSIA ONIYNG SHYOLISIA JO GUYOOAA
STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY 13

SMITHSONIAN OFFICE OF ANTHROPOLOGY.—On February 1,
1965, the Bureau of American Ethnology and the Department
of Anthropology of the Museum of Natural History were com-
bined to form the new Smithsonian Office of Anthropology
under the Museum of Natural History. This consolidation
unites the efforts and resources of the Institution in modern
programs in ethnology, linquistics, archeology, and physical
anthropology. Dr. Richard B. Woodbury was appointed its
acting head. Activities of the new office as well as the bureau’s
accomplishments in the past year are given on pages 39-53 of
this report.

Division OF EDUCATION AND TRAINING.—Recognition of the
Smithsonian’s responsibilities and opportunities in research and
higher education led to the establishment in October 1964 of
the Division of Education and Training. Effective July 1, 1965,
Dr. Charles Blitzer was appointed its director. The objective
of this new division is to bring about the fullest use of the Insti-
tution’s resources—both its collections and its distinguished staff
of scientists and scholars—and to make these resources available
to the scientific and scholarly community at large. This objec-
tive is being pursued through a variety of programs.

Under one of these programs the Smithsonian entered into
agreements with a number of universities for cooperation in
postgraduate education. Typically, such agreements contem-
plate use of the Smithsonian collections by Ph. D. candidates
with the supervision of Smithsonian staff members; often, closer
ties are developed between Smithsonian scholars and the
universities’ graduate departments. During the year under
review, cooperative programs were established with the Uni-
versity of Kansas for graduate training in botany and pale-
ontology, with the University of Pennsylvania for graduate
training in the history and philosophy of science, and with the
George Washington University for graduate training in
American Studies, in museum techniques, and in sedimentology.
At the end of the year negotiations were in progress for similar
cooperative programs in anthropology, botany, field biology,
the fine arts, the history of art, and marine science.

The results of these programs—already measurable in those
that have been operating for some time—will be the develop-
14 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965

ment of highly trained specialists in areas of the sciences, the
humanities, and the arts in which the Smithsonian traditionally
has been involved, as well as the enhancement of research
activities by the Institution’s permanent staff as it is brought
into closer contact with colleagues in the academic world.

The Division of Education and Training also conducted two
programs through which undergraduates and beginning grad-
uate students are brought to the Smithsonian during the summer
as junior research associates. Of the 53 students appointed
under this program, 16 were supported by a grant to the Smith-
sonian from the National Science Foundation’s Undergraduate
Research Participation Program. Appointments were based
on academic achievement and potential for research, and con-
siderable care was taken to ensure that each student’s experi-
ence would contribute significantly to his education.

With a view toward extending the Smithsonian’s services to
the local research community, the Division of Education and
Training conducted a survey of the educational activities of
Federal research centers, private research centers, and uni-
versities in and around the District of Columbia. Results of
this study were made available to those concerned with the
development of the area’s potential for higher education.

The division also arranged for the holding of a special summer
institute for 50 social science teachers from the public schools
of the District of Columbia. The purpose of the institute was
to develop with the teachers ways of using the museums on the
Mall as major educational resources for their classes.

Throughout its history the Smithsonian has welcomed scien-
tists and scholars from colleges, universities, and other research
institutions in this country and abroad. Their use of the Smith-
sonian’s collections, and their association with its professional
staff, clearly contribute to the purposes for which the Institution
exists. Their presence testifies to the importance of the Smith-
sonian’s resources for research and, at the same time, serves to
enliven the scholarly atmosphere of the Institution.

To encourage the use of the Smithsonian’s resources by out-
side investigators, and to ensure that their visits will prove as
fruitful as possible both from the point of view of advancing
human knowledge and from the point of view of the special
STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY 15

concerns of the Smithsonian, the Division of Education and
Training is developing a number of programs for visiting re-
search associates. Funds, both public and private, are being
. sought for these programs.

OFFICE OF SPECIAL PRoyects.—The Office of Special Projects
was established this year with Robert N. Cunningham in charge.

The primary concern of the office thus far has been the detailed
and thorough preparation for the formal commemoration of the
birth of the Institution’s founder, James Smithson. The year
1965 marks the 200th anniversary of his birth, and Congress
designated September 17 and 18 as special days to honor Smith-
son’s memory. In addition to honoring the _ Institution’s
founder, the stated aims of the Bicentennial Celebration are:

1. To pay tribute to the distinguished past of the Smith-
sonian and affirm to its members and Regents, to scholars,
scientists, and kindred institutions, and to the general public,
the Smithsonian’s intent to fulfill a vital and useful role in
society ; and

2. To examine the nature of knowledge and creative dis-
covery as conceived by Smithson and as understood today.

The Office of Special Projects has also been laying the ground-
work for the establishment of a Smithsonian Society of Associates,
an organization seen as a national association with several types
of membership, which would seek to diffuse knowledge of the
Institution as widely as possible in order to enlarge understand-
ing and support of its activities—thereby increasing the scope
and depth of the Smithsonian’s scientific, cultural, and educa-
tional contributions to mankind.
ae “Spe ei
ra i parernt A

sabe ae, fi
Porter y pics 5 sea sung
Pua avere pear AE cS SAG eb fo)

* ’
ip. top ete wT ¢ } +:
i
ye} Oh : Lit ni
lt %
; eae ee || is 44 is
Pi
os
> a ’
RO eee Oot IO Peas RY ; \ e
‘ \ .7 f f ~
¢ eee Ae) qoht
em ne ks
H eta A
f
“oe ‘ 4 ei »
hi tie } ii 38 | ‘Bi i

: od e MM? Fao OU
ai. oto foleags bag ate Ba a

‘
r : : Pwr bet PED Te eo
‘
ah yees ie 7.)
;
Pie | j y ; : i .
A Re PT RAN PS tS ea eth SNS were ef PA, on. |

. Heh ; ;
m TTA Ee es PEC eG en WER Geis > bah ites we ‘a

"i am » The » Z Z “we ‘“ ream y ; y } * ‘ f : ~
whanceiegryent eres! oer tee IS UND 2 | cee 1 ean

SAL ODe Nth) se tad Tape 1S EG NEE | er eh erat sr) an ee at 4 fat ai }
"

woauho bes: spain: oes , painen al a at

rhe i) te abe pe

WAR: TE" See

sii (lable dai: eae aren

CUR att ae Neath SRP els ey Cea rmtad ts dV vai dase
ee, : i)
, : Om sae ei aid ¥
\ : ea
i, 0
iy
hes ae Gan oe
"
4  y 7 ; AVG 4
Be Na haat)
New flight cage at National Zoological Park was shown to distinguished

guests by Secretary and Mrs. S. Dillon Ripley at formal opening in February
1965.
United States National Museum

789-427—66——-4
- <= ¥ f ‘
i } i a

7 ;

; '

pane :

: wn \
a wy ;
4 © y,
f A
: I j
.
i a
- if,
rs" im
= : ;
4 fer :
uf :
f.
j
j z
'
4

musa lenis, esteie: | |

rs : a
United States National Museum

FRANK A. TayLor, Director

The annual reporting procedures of the U.S. National Museum have
been changed to take cognizance of the broadening scholarly horizons
of the Smithsonian Institution and of the enlarged scope of the Museum
of History and Technology resulting from the move to its new building.

In order that its message reach a wider audience, the full report of
the U.S. National Museum, rather than the condensed version pre-
viously given, will be carried in Smithsonian Year. Within the Museum
Report, henceforth, the work of the component Museums of Natural
History and of History and Technology will be treated separately.
Furthermore, the contents of each report are rearranged to emphasize
the fact that research and publication are the foundations from which
arise the other activities and services of the Museum. To this end,
also, a bibliography of staff publications is appended to the research
report of each office and department. A full list of the publications
issued by the Museum appears in the report on publications, on pages
392-395,

Those activities heretofore found under the Bureau of American
Ethnology in the Annual Report of the Smithsonian Institution are
reported by the Museum on pages 39-53, under the Smithsonian Office
of Anthropology, into which office the Bureau has been merged.

The consolidated Annual Report formerly issued by the U.S. National
Museum is discontinued. Instead, separates of the reports of its com-
ponent Museums appearing in Smithsonian Year will be available for
those accustomed to receive the consolidated Annual Report. To each
separate report will be appended a full list of the donors to that
Museum.

Conservation

To serve the various museums of the Smithsonian Institution, a con-
servation research laboratory has been established under the United
States National Museum. Directed by Charles H. Olin, its offices are
located in the Museum of History and Technology.

The conservation research laboratory began the installation of
equipment for physical and chemical analysis. This includes in-

19
20 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965

strumentation for x-ray spectrography and x-ray diffraction, equipment
for preparing, examining, and photographing cross-sections of metals,
an infrared spectrophotometer, and accessory equipment.

In the area of x-ray spectrography, qualitative spectra were used to
identify the composition of metal alloys in objects from the Freer
Gallery and from the divisions of archeology, numismatics, mechanical
and civil engineering, medical sciences, and physical sciences of the
Museum of History and Technology. Approximately one-fourth of
the time devoted to x-ray analyses involved the establishment of
sampling methods and standards. In quantitative analysis, an in-
vestigation was begun into the method of sampling whereby drillings
of the sample are pressed into a pellet. X-ray diffraction was used
for the identification of corrosion products and pigments for the
National Collection of Fine Arts and for the divisions of cultural
history and archeology.

Of 134 requests for analyses and conservation received, the laboratory
completed 52 analyses and furnished the services required in 54 of
the conservation requests. Advice was furnished on requirements
for collection preservation involving air conditioning and the control
of light and dust. Conservation treatment was performed on objects
of bronze, glass, hide, ceramics, and wood; and also on paintings,
prints, feathers, photographs, and archival materials, even though the
facilities of the laboratory are designed for analysis and conservation
research and not for treatment.

The problem of providing an abstracting service for the fields of
conservation and archeological chemistry was studied for the laboratory
by Dr. Seymour Lewin, Conservation Center, New York University.
His report, which evaluated the problem and outlined a program, is now
being used to secure support for a proposed abstract journal. Professor
Cyril Smith, who visited the laboratory for one week, prepared reports
on the organization of the laboratory and on the metallographic
examination of objects from Ecuador.
Museum of Natural History

<
nthe fu lt ,
3 Forte SOF 1h

an

it

Pree aetny dere

each) Eee Cyt A

)
‘ he
Alea Von
' ati eee , sete Sta hs
mf
oo ee 7 Pe f 5
sieiad inh us ihe tz ixbives
j te ¥ ¥
r #4 i \ oe oi paw ct a
9 ala wr109 ed emis Torn
: ¥,
oh ae ik
; pie a Se
om eres ay
‘mare | d 7% ;
5 + {
mn 3 rei
e
; fine

.
d al 5) a
Museum of Natural History

T. DALE STEWART, Director

The trend toward specialization in science hasreached the point where
few museum curators can be considered broad naturalists in the sense of
some of their predecessors. Botanists more than ever concentrate on a
portion of one plant family and disclaim anything but a general knowl-
edge of other families. Vertebrate paleontologists work with larger
assemblages, such as groups of reptiles, fishes, or mammals, but often
in a single geographical area or geological epoch. Anthropologists
study man from the standpoint either of some part of his physique or
of his culture, and the latter only in its historic or its prehistoric aspect.
And much the same holds for other specialties. For this reason, and
also because more money is available for research than ever before,
research projects in which many people from a number of disciplines
participate have become customary.

The Museum of Natural History finds itself involved in some large-
scale projects of this sort. Mention has been made in previous reports,
for example, of the Bredin-Archbold-Smithsonian Biological Survey of
Dominica. Since January 1964 when it was initiated, 24 specialists
representing 10 disciplines have spent varying periods of time on this
Caribbean island. The Smithsonian African Mammal Project has had
altogether about 15 collectors in the field since 1961, giving attention
not only to the mammals but to their ectoparasites. Also, the
International Indian Ocean Expedition has included in its numerous
cruises 11 specialists from the Museum representing 6 different fields,
with a large back-up group in the Museum’s Sorting Center hastening
the preparation of the resulting collections.

But the project which surpasses all others in number of personnel and
size of the geographical area covered is the Pacific Ocean Biological
Survey Program, described in the following section by its principal
investigator.

23
24 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965

An Ecological Survey of the Central Pacific

The Smithsonian Institution is engaged in an ecological survey
of a central Pacific area comprising some four and a third million
square miles of open ocean, dotted here and there with clusters and
strings of islands and atolls. The major goals of this survey are to
learn what plants and animals occur on the islands in this vast region
and the seasonal variations in their numbers and reproductive activities,
and in addition to learn more about the factors which determine the
distribution and abundance of the birds of the open ocean in that
environment.

The survey is designed to accumulate in a few years sufficient data
on the plants and animals, on the pelagic birds at sea, and on climatic
and oceanographic variables, to permit broad ecological conclusions
to be drawn.

To initiate the survey, the Smithsonian sent several small field parties
to the Hawaiian Leeward and Phoenix Islands. As the survey grew
in scope, other institutions and government agencies joined the effort,
and today the Smithsonian alone has a combined field and laboratory
staff of about 40 intensively studying the plants and animals of 33
islands. .

The main area of interest (see map), which represents only a small
fraction of the total Pacific Ocean, was more or less arbitrarily delimited
to include a wide variety of island groups and oceanic conditions. It
spans the Equator, extending from latitudes 30° N. to 10° S., and it
includes islands and island groups from longitudes 150° to 180° W.
Most of the islands are products of coral construction on worn-off
volcanic upheavals—the tops of the submarine mountain ranges which
spring up from the ocean floor 15,000 to 18,000 feet below. The
Hawaiian Islands stretch for 1,578 miles across the northern end of the
study area. Johnston Atoll, an isolated surface indication of the vast
mid-Pacific mountain range, lies 450 miles south of the Hawaiian ridge.
Farther south and to the east, the Line Islands stretch in a long chain
across the Equator. In the southwestern corner of the study area
Howland and Baker lie just north of the Equator, the Phoenix Islands
are clustered 3° to 5° south of it, and the Tokelaus lie 5° farther south.

Except for the main Hawaiian Islands and certain of the Line and
Phoenix Islands, this whole area is characterized by low rainfall. The
majority of the low-lying coral islands have desert climates. Their
sparse vegetation consists of a few grasses, herbs, and dwarf shrubs.

A few species of terrestrial mammals and reptiles, some of them
introduced by man, occur on several of the islands, but across this vast
central-Pacific area, oceanic birds are the dominant terrestrial verte-
Pacific Ocean Biological Survey party landing on Lisianski Island, Hawaii.
Below: Campsite on Phoenix Island.

Banding a blue-faced booby at Gardiner pinnacles, Hawaiian Islands. _ Below:
Sooty-tern colony on Laysan Island. Background vegetation is bunch grass
(Eragrostis variabilis) and escaped cultivated tobacco. (See pp. 26-27.)

MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY—INTRODUCTION 25

*” JOHNSTON—SAND

« HOWLAND

Area of Pacific Ocean Biological Survey spans the Equator, extending from
latitudes 30° N. to 10° S. and from longitudes 150° to 180° W. (See p. 24.)

789-427—66—_6
26 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965

brates. Apart from the endemic and introduced birds on the
main Hawaiians and certain of the Hawaiian Leeward and Line
Islands, about 90 species occur as migrants, accidentals, or nesting
birds. On islands of the area, 28 species of oceanic birds are known to
nest, and an additional 21 species occur as regular migrants or
accidentals.

The ecology of oceanic birds is a curious hybrid between the ter-
restrial ecology of islands and the ecology of the sea (more often called
oceanography), in that the surrounding ocean provides food for the
island avifauna and affects the climate of the island as well. The
ecology of the oceanic birds under study, moreover, is affected not only
by conditions on and around the islands, but by conditions in regions
remote from the central Pacific.

Present conditions on these islands reflect the introduction of many
species of plants and animals over the years by man, who has also made
major changes in the distribution and abundance of soils and other
surface materials by his guano mining during the latter part of the
19th century. Hence, to understand the disturbed conditions on many
of the islands, it has been necessary to delve deeply into the history of
man’s activities in the central Pacific.

Fortunately, the extensive file of published and unpublished reports,
diaries, and other records pertaining to the area, organized by Edwin
H. Bryan, Jr., manager of the Pacific Scientific Information Center at
the Bernice P. Bishop Museum, and the extensive files of Dr. F. Ray-
mond Fosberg of the U.S. Geological Survey have been placed at
the service of the Smithsonian. From these and other sources can be
learned the extent to which man has disturbed the ecology of some of
these Pacific islands. For example, over a period of about two decades
during the latter part of the 19th century, approximately 125,000 tons
of guano were removed from Howland, a remote desert island only
eight-tenths of a square mile in area. In the 1930’s this island was
colonized, and three airplane runways, each 150 feet wide, were built,
preempting 7 percent of its total area. And in the early years of
World War II it was shelled or bombed at various times.

On islands of the nearby Phoenix group from which the human popu-
lations have been moved out, a legacy remains of introduced plants
and mammals, of which the domestic cat is surely the most destructive
influence. Phoenix and McKean Islands are free of cats and support
16 species of nesting birds including petrels, shearwaters, boobies,
frigatebirds, tropicbirds, and terns. Howland and Baker Islands both
had cat populations. At that time Howland supported only 5 nesting
species of birds, numbering fewer than 3,000 individuals, and Baker
MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY—INTRODUCTION 27

but one nesting species, the noddy tern, with a population of fewer
than 100.

One year later all cats on Howland and Baker were finally extermi-
nated. Almost immediately the number of species present and nesting
increased. Coincidentally, on Baker Island the house mouse became
superabundant, with its population estimated to number in the hun-
dreds of thousands, where in the previous year it had been extremely
rare. Thus, even though man’s actions have drastically modified many
of the islands, changing the vegetation and in some cases exterminating
some of the animals, the sea-bird populations are able to recover swiftly
when predators are eliminated through effective conservation.

Although the ecology of plants and animals of all kinds is the concern
of the Smithsonian survey, most of the field effort has been devoted to
the birds and arthropods, which are the most abundant terrestrial
organisms in the central Pacific. In the two and one-half years that the
survey has been under way, enormous quantities of data have been
collected and are being organized, but as yet any attempt at synthesis
would be premature. New data and new ideas are appearing at such
a rapid rate that it will be some time before a first level of organization
and synthesis is completed and ecological conclusions can be drawn.

An example of the survey’s data-collecting efforts is the study of
bird distribution in the central Pacific by means of banding. This
banding program is designed to provide answers to such questions as:
What contribution do the bird populations of each island make to the
avifauna of the open sea? What is the pattern of dispersal of birds from
any given island—where do they go after the nesting season? It is also
designed to provide new facts concerning the biology and behavior of
the population of birds on any given island, and on the origins of the
migratory birds which pass through or winter in the area. To provide
this information enormous numbers of birds must be banded. Up to
April 1965, Smithsonian field parties had attached U.S. Fish and
Wildlife Service bands to the legs of over 425,000 birds of 44 species.
Although most of these birds were banded on islands in the area of
interest, programs were also undertaken in the Marshalls and Gilberts,
on Wake Island, and on St. George Island in the Pribilofs.

For most of the resident species in the area of interest, it is the hope
to band over 50 percent of entire populations. For species such as the
sooty tern, the populations of which number in the millions, this is
clearly impossible, but for species with populations numbering in the
tens of thousands, the Smithsonian has been able to band over half the
entire breeding population. The blue-faced booby illustrates this
point: over 25,000 individuals have been banded in the study area, and
28 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965

of this number more than 500 have been recaptured at sea or at other
islands. ‘The data from interisland returns of banded birds now make
it possible to state in quantitative terms the differences between age
groups and nesting and nonnesting birds in their amount of wandering
at different times of the year. As additional data of these kinds ac-
cumulate, it will be possible to determine the amount of interisland
mixing, the composition of roosting flocks, age at first nesting, longev-
ity, mortality curves, and so on.

The effectiveness of the Smithsonian banding program in the central
Pacific has been largely due to the enthusiastic cooperation of the U.S.
Fish and Wildlife Service Bird Banding Laboratory. Without this
organization and its system of maintaining and processing data, the
program could never have gotten underway.

In order to increase the rate of recovery of banded birds throughout
the Pacific world, the Smithsonian has sent out thousands of copies of
a notice soliciting reports of banded or color-marked birds. Printed
in five languages, these have been distributed to 19 countries and 21
major island groups, where the notice has been further translated
into Korean, Malay, Samoan, Gilbertese, Ponapean, and other
languages, and has been reprinted in newspapers, magazines, and vari-
ous commercial and official or semiofficial government reports. The
notice has formed the basis for lectures to school children, clubs, and
professional groups, and it has been distributed to vessels in various
commercial fishing fleets and shipping lines, and to the U.S. Navy,
Merchant Marine, and Coast Guard. The Smithsonian also issues a
newsletter which is sent to all cooperators in the Pacific-wide bird
banding program. This publicity effort, in addition to increasing the
recovery of banded birds, heightens public interest in problems of
conservation in the Pacific area.

Although most of the field work in the central Pacific is being under-
taken by a Smithsonian field staff under director Charles A. Ely,
whose offices are in Honolulu, the success of the program depends
most heavily on the generous cooperation of numerous collaborating
institutions and individuals.

An agreement between the Institution and the U.S. Department of
the Interior has resulted in a free exchange of information and services,
particularly with respect to the Hawaiian Leeward Islands, where
mutual interest and exchange of information further enhances the
status of these islands as wildlife refuges or sanctuaries. The Smith-
sonian has received enthusiastic cooperation from the State of Hawaii
Division of Fish and Game, which represents the interest of the State in
ecology, management, and conservation.
MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY—INTRODUCTION 29

BLACK-FOOTED ALBATROSS

LESSER FRIGATEBIRDS

RUDDY TURNSTONES

Recoveries of birds banded under Pacific Ocean Biological Survey Program

1

ae bare shown by hatched areas. (See p. 28.)

The effectiveness of Smithsonian studies of the distribution of
pelagic birds at sea is almost entirely dependent upon the Department
of the Interior, Bureau of Commercial Fisheries, in Honolulu. This
agency has generously provided not only ship support for bird censuses,
but also a body of oceanographic data which, when combined with the
ornithological data, will make a unique contribution to our understand-
ing of the oceanographic factors affecting their distribution.

Modern transportation and communication facilities are essential
for the coordination of a large-scale biological survey over such a
vast region. The Smithsonian maintains permanent field parties on
two islands through the courtesy of the U.S. Coast Guard, which also,
from time to time, very kindly grants opportunities for Smithsonian
personnel to visit various islands during the course of regular Coast
Guard trips. In addition, the U.S. Navy has generously permitted
Smithsonian personnel to carry out at-sea observations on its vessels.
Never before has it been feasible to visit most of the islands in this
area three or four times a year, or to carry out monthly at-sea surveys
over a period of years to collect data on pelagic bird distribution and
on various physical oceanographic factors.
30 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965

Studies of the distribution and ecology of terrestrial plants on islands
of the central Pacific, in which Dr. Charles Lamoureaux and Mr.
Robert Long, of the University of Hawaii, are collaborating with the
Smithsonian Institution, are important not only in developing an
inventory of plants on each of the islands and a history of plant intro-
ductions, but also to an understanding of the factors affecting the
distribution and abundance of terrestrial animals.

Perhaps the most important practical accomplishment of the Smith-
sonian survey will be the delineation of the environment over a relatively
short period of time. This will provide a baseline of comparison
for biologists concerned, 10 or 20 years from now, with measuring the
effects of man-made modifications of the environment on natural
populations of organisms. The need for such a baseline is most
urgent today, when man, in his struggle to advance himself, is changing
the face of the earth at an appallingly rapid rate, and is subjecting
the total environment—water, atmosphere, and living tissues—to
physical and chemical influences which need to be measureeg gw and
in the future. For unless these fundamental changes in his environ-
ment are properly assessed, man himself, through ignorance, may fall
victim to his own progress.

Puitip 8. HUMPHREY
Chairman, Department of Vertebrate Zoology
Research and Publications

SYSTEMATICS

The Office of Systematics was established early in 1965 to provide a
focal point for systematic interests both within the Museum of Natural
History and outside it. Although nearly all the professional staff
engage in systematic research, interdisciplinary needs increasingly
occur which can be met best by a non-discipline-oriented office.
Typical of these needs are research problems requiring joint attack
by several disciplines.

In long-range terms, the most important project which transects
all disciplinary lines involves data processing by computer. As the
number of specimens in natural history collections increases, a stage is
reached at which the specimen-attached. data become difficult or
impossible to organize and recover by “manual” methods. A central
file of such data from our own millions of specimens, and ultimately
including those of other museums, will provide the means by which
many permutations of these data can be performed almost instantly.
Moreover, bibliographic, karyologic, genetic, ecologic, and biochemi-
cal data can be inserted in sucha data bank and retrieved in various
new combinations with other data. Such a facility will provide the
researcher with a means by which an almost limitless number of data
configurations can be programed to meet his needs.

Such vast files of information require any available device which
facilitates their organization into retrievable form; the binomial borne
by each species of plant or animal is the means by which the most
diverse sort of information can be organized, stored, and retrieved.
But 30 million names are difficult and prohibitively expensive to use
directly in an information system. Under way is the development of
a code to express names in machine-readable form, free of hierarchical
implications and completely open-ended. Support from several sources
is being sought to complete the code and begin the accumulation of data.

The International Biological Program will begin field operations
in January 1967, and those studying the biota of Africa will have in
hand a field guide to the mammals. This is the objective of a project
receiving Institutional support through the Office of Systematics. One
of the foremost mammalogists in southern Africa is writing various
parts of the manual, and he is securing the contributions of mammal
specialists over the world.

The National Institutes of Health have provided contractual support
for a project to search among our collections for tumors of invertebrates

31
32 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965—-MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY

and cold-blooded vertebrates. ‘There is reasonable hope that the
phylogeny of some of the animal groups, as well as that of tumer
diseases, may be elucidated by this project.

An ad hoc committee consisting of representatives from archeology,
paleobotany, and modern plant systematics has participated in present-
ing the need for a pollen laboratory and staff. Pollen grains are highly
resistant to destruction and are so distinctive as to permit the specialist
to reconstruct reasonably accurately the former vegetation of an area
and the environmental conditions under which the plants grew.
Likewise, the pollens of primitive man’s crop plants persist in the refuse
of his habitations and reveal much about the kinds of things he grew
and under what conditions. The student of recent plants uses paly-
nological data to reconstruct the evolutionary history of plant groups
and to clarify phylogenetic relationships. Funds have been set aside
for the equipping of the laboratory, and it is hoped that a research
palynologist can be employed by the end of the next fiscal year.

A new publication, “Smithsonia,”’ planned for next year, is dis-
tinctive in that it is a series of which each unit is devoted to the descrip-
tion of a new species or redescription of an old one. Such a format
will permit progressive revision of genera and other taxa by the pub-
lication of groups of descriptions. |

Initial planning has begun toward convening at the Smithsonian in
1966 an international symposium on systematics, jointly sponsored
by the National Science Foundation, the National Academy of Sciences,
and the Smithsonian Institution. Outstanding systematists from
abroad will participate with prominent American ones in a one-day
session on principles of systematics and a second day on methodologies.
It is hoped that future conferences can be held on important questions
related to the training of both technical researchers and scientific aides
for systematics. Such meetings satisfy an important responsibility of
the Office—to represent systematics at all levels, to urge the incorpora-
tion of taxonomic data in otherwise non-systematic studies, and to
broaden the base of current systematics to include information from as
many ancillary sources as possible.

ECOLOGY

Man has learned, to a very large extent, how to escape, through
control of his environment, the pangs of hunger, the rigors of un-
favorable weather, and the anxieties of individual preservation, as op-
posed to group protection. In the process, however, man has so
greatly modified his surroundings that the human species, as its popula-
RESEARCH & PUBLICATIONS—-ECOLOGY 33

tions expand apace, stands in very real danger of losing control over
its own destiny. To focus research effort, while there is yet time, on
important problems of environmental biology, plans were completed
for establishing, on July 1, 1965, an Office of Ecology. Selected as
its head, and assistant director for ecology, is Helmut Buechner, who
will continue his own researches in the behavior of certain ungulate
mammals.

Since the systematic research produced by the professional staff has
generally included ecological data, the program represents not a
beginning of Institutional interest but a means to focus staff attention
on the subject and to facilitate cooperation between the Smithsonian
and other Federal agencies and educational organizations.

In January an informal conference of outstanding biologists discussed
research trends and opportunities in environmental biology, including
ecology, genetics, behavior, and the study of wild populations under
natural conditions. Participants were requested specifically to con-
sider (1) what contributions might be made by environmental studies
in the New World Tropics, (2) the desirability of undertaking studies of
soil ecology, and (3) the projected field stations on Chesapeake Bay.

Several planning sessions were devoted to organizing the Center for
Field Biology, on land at the head of Chesapeake Bay, in summer of
1965. As its first director, Kyle Barbehenn will be in charge of the
Center and its program development. Sharing the Center with
Smithsonian research personnel will be biologists from the Johns
Hopkins University, the University of Maryland, and, to a limited
extent, from the National Institutes of Health, who will study captive
animals, as well as native and migrating ones, and their possible inter-
action with the environment.

Consideration has been given to undertaking a research program
on soil biology in which will be investigated the nature of the inter-
actions of soil organisms on each other and with their environment.
Although applied studies of soil organisms are under way in various
research laboratories, little or no attention has been devoted to the
ecological aspects of this problem.

Since the International Biological Program is strongly oriented toward
environmental biology, the Office of Ecology will also be a focal point
for staff participation in this program.

OCEANOGRAPHY

Although the Smithsonian Institution has been engaged in studies of
marine organisms since Spencer F. Baird joined its staff more than
34 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965—-MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY

100 years ago, the active involvement of the Institution in a National
Oceanography Program has made it necessary for the Institution to
reexamine its interests and capabilities for studying the world ocean.

This reexamination has rested comfortably within the context of the
traditional operations of the Museum of Natural History; that is to say,
the Smithsonian’s marine operations are principally concerned with
collecting marine natural-history objects in order to determine the
kinds, distributions, and populations of organisms and sediments in
the world ocean. These studies are oriented toward systematics; the
available data are exploited, however, for additional information
concerning the ecology, biogeography, and evolution of the specimens
collected. Because proper study of these specimens is not feasible
without an active program to gather material from areas not repre-
sented in the national collections, Smithsonian scientists continue to
seek collections from chartered vessels and from ships of many public
and private agencies.

In addition to these research responsibilities, the Smithsonian has
always provided limited service to other governmental and non-
governmental scientists by making identifications of natural-history
objects. As a part of its expansion in the National Oceanography
Program, the Institution has now developed an increased capability
for the accomplishment of such service by establishing the Smithsonian
Oceanographic Sorting Center for the separation of bulk collections
into groups which may be studied effectively by individual scientists.

The magnitude of effort required for this involvement in the National
Oceanography Program is evidenced by the nearly 80 U.S. oceano-
eraphic vessels of assorted sizes that are gathering marine specimens,
many of which may end up at the Smithsonian Institution: 10 private
U.S. oceanographic institutions use 22 ships for oceanographic col-
lection of data and specimens; 22 Coast Guard vessels collect data and
specimens on ocean stations; and many large and small vessels of the
Navy, the Coast and Geodetic Survey, the Bureau of Commercial
Fisheries, and other government agencies obtain data and collections
from the ocean. Impetus recently has been given to a so-called
‘ships of opportunity” effort which could use for biological collections
many of the estimated 6,000 civilian and military ships which may be
at sea on any one day in the North Atlantic alone. The backlog of
biological research information waiting to be uncovered is scarcely
realized, even within the Museum.

The oceanography plans of the Institution have been developed in
continuous consultation with scientists of the United States in all
fields of biological oceanography. Hence, a large portion of this
RESEARCH & PUBLICATIONS—-OCEANOGRAPHY 35

program involves cooperation with many other agencies. Since
1962 the Institution has maintained membership in the Interagency
Committee on Oceanography (ICO), and the assistant director for
oceanography of the Museum of Natural History is chairman of its
research panel. In addition to support from Congress, joint research
projects, with funds from both organizations, have been undertaken by
the Smithsonian and each of the Atomic Energy Commission, the Office
of Naval Research, the Department of State, the Bureau of Commercial
Fisheries, the National Science Foundation, the Naval Oceanographic
Office, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, the
Interagency Committee on Oceanography, and one state agency—the
Maryland Fisheries Commission. Also, joint research projects have
been undertaken by staff members of the Institution with support from
the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution, the Lamont Geological
Observatory, the Marine Biological Laboratory of Woods Hole, the
University of Maryland, Duke University, the University of Kansas,
Johns Hopkins University, the University of Michigan, the University
of Minnesota, the University of Miami, the University of Southern
California, Yale University, Florida State University, the University
of Washington, and others.

Regional industrial and professional groups, foundations, and in-
dividuals also have provided support and specimens to the Institution’s
oceanography program. These include International Business Ma-
chines, Inc., the American Institute of Biological Sciences, the Link
Foundation, the National Geographic Society, the American Chemical
Society, the Guggenheim Foundation, the Hong Kong Fisheries
Research Station, the Inter-American Tropical Tuna Commission,
the Guinean Trawling Survey, the Indian Ocean Biological Center,
the National Oceanographic Data Center, General Ed Schwengel,
Jeanne Schwengel, and Edwin A. Link.

Specimens have been identified for the Naval Oceanographic Office,
the Coast and Geodetic Survey, the Coastal Engineering Research
Center, the Bureau of Sport Fisheries and Wildlife, the Bureau of
Commercial Fisheries, the National Science Foundation’s Antarctic
Research Program, and a large number of other Federal and private
organizations.

Field support has been provided to members of the oceanography
staff by ships of the Bureau of Commercial Fisheries, the Woods Hole
Oceanographic Institution, the Coast and Geodetic Survey, the
National Science Foundation, Stanford University, the University of
Southern California, the Marine Biological Laboratory of Woods
Hole, Mass., the University of Miami, and the National Aeronautics
36 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965—-MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY

and Space Administration. Vessels also have been chartered specifi-
cally for use by the Institution.

Projects that have been supported by other agencies have been in the
areas of marine systematics and ecology, the processing of specimens,
the keeping of records of natural-history specimens, and the publication
of appropriate documents, as well as the establishment of an oceano-
graphic exhibit in the Museum of Natural History.

In doing research on the biological and geological natural history
of the oceans, members of the staff of the Smithsonian Institution have
functioned to study existing collections of the Museum of Natural
History and other museums; to take additional collections in unique
areas; to describe organisms in relation to their environment; to report
unusual natural history features, such as the presence of cancer and
other abnormalities, in order that biological and physiological studies
might be pursued elsewhere; to formulate theories with regard to the
evolution of organisms; to provide explanations of the intra- and inter-
relationships of organisms; to develop field guides for the easy identifica-
tion of marine specimens; to develop and test basic collecting gear for
use in studying marine organisms; to provide an urgently needed
identification service; to assemble, maintain, and provide access to the
national collections; to provide a collecting staff for use in unique
areas; to develop curating and preservation techniques, and other
handling advice and experience; and to provide for proper storage of
collections in appropriate facilities.

A natural outgrowth of the National Oceanography Program has
been an ever-broadening involvement of the Institution in collections
from the routine operations as a part of the world ocean survey, from
research cruises and expeditions of other agencies, and from special
international programs such as the International Indian Ocean Expe-
dition and the International Cooperative Investigations of the Tropical
Atlantic. The Institution has found it desirable to be involved as
closely as possible in the planning of various expeditions and has en-
deavored to produce labels and specimen-handling information on a
continuing basis, so that collections can be maintained in better con-
dition for ultimate study and so that adequate environmental infor-
mation is available to provide broad interpretation of the biological
data resulting from the studies.

Perhaps the most obvious of the changes in the first three years of the
Smithsonian’s research effort in oceanography has been a large increase
in staff involvement in biological and geological oceanography activi
ties. Not only has the number of scientists involved in the oceanog-
raphy program tripled in these three years, but the number of organi-
Photomicrography of phytoplankton samples at the Smithsonian Oceano-
graphic Sorting Center. Below: Zooplankton laboratory houses many
activities, including recording and verifying data, splitting and _ relabeling
samples, sorting aliquots to 52 taxonomic categories, and packaging and
shipping invoiced specimens to specialists. (See pp. 37-39.)

Top, left: Bird stomach, received at the Sorting Center from Pacific Ocean
Biological Survey, is opened for examination of contents; right: small
bottom invertebrates are separated and retrieved by sieving. Below:
Tagged grouper being placed in monel-lined tank containing 75% ethyl
alcohol. (See pp. 37-39.)

5

RESEARCH & PUBLICATIONS—-OCEANOGRAPHY 37

zational units included in the program also has tripled. Whereas
before, the Institution had extremely restricted capability to treat the
nearly 100 major groups of marine organisms, selective recruiting has
resulted in the addition of capabilities to examine and carry out research
on groups which could not be included in earlier oceanographic efforts.

The expansion of staff within the Museum of Natural History has
been almost entirely in the systematics area. Additional groups of
marine organisms may now be studied, and in this fiscal year, capabili-
ties have been added to carry out research in such marine groups as
ostracodes, amphipods, nematodes, macroalgae, coralline algae, and
plankton. New personnel include a senior electron microscopist, a
sedimentologist, and a petrologist interested in marine rocks.

The principal new activity within the oceanography program is the
Smithsonian Oceanographic Sorting Center, conceived by A. C. Smith,
former Assistant Secretary for Science, and organized in January 1963
to receive bulk samples from governmental and private sources; to
separate them into appropriate taxa for identification by specialists; to
obtain and coordinate the station data to provide maximum environ-
mental information with the specimens; to experiment with preserva-
tion, labeling, accessioning, shipping, and storage of specimens; to
train technicians for all aspects of specimen handling; and to provide
information and forms helpful to oceanographic investigations by
insuring that consideration be given to the maximum collection of
environmental data.

More than five million specimens have been sorted by the Center, and
more than three million of these have been shipped to specialists for
study. In spite of this productivity, the Center has a tremendous back-
log of specimens which have been given it for processing, and a sub-
stantial expansion in its staff is needed to work on the specimens.

The Sorting Center uses a series of seven advisory groups, each con-
sisting of five members with differing research specialties. The advice
of these committees is sought with regard to the assignment for study
of specimens processed by the Center and for recommendations of
permanent depositories of identified specimens. In addition to these
continuing groups, the Center has sought specific advice from John
Wickstead of the British Plymouth Laboratory; from Ruth Patrick of
the Philadelphia Academy of Natural Sciences; from Allan Bé of the
Lamont Geological Observatory; from E. C. Jones of the Bureau of
Commercial Fisheries Laboratory in Hawaii; from Saul Saila of the
University of Rhode Island; and from Isabel Farfantes Canet. In
addition, assistance and advice is given by the several hundred sci-
entists visiting the Center. Such guidance is continually sought
through correspondence with the above and other persons.

789-427—66-——7
38 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965—-MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY

Of special note is project support for strong involvement of the Sort-
ing Center in the U.S. Antarctic Research Program of the National
Science Foundation (NSF). With NSF support, the Center lists
specimens taken from all past U.S. efforts in the Antarctic, and it sorts
and maintains records of specimens now being taken from the Ant-
arctic. In addition, the photographs of the ocean bottom taken from
the NSF research vessel Eltanin are duplicated and distributed to
scientists.

Also noteworthy are collections made available for study by the Na-
tional Science Foundation through the International Indian Ocean
Expedition, by the Bureau of Commercial Fisheries, and by the Inter-
governmental Oceanographic Commission’s International Cooperative
Investigations of the Tropical Atlantic. Other collections have come
to the Sorting Center from the Pacific Halibut Commission, the Inter-
American Tropical Tuna Commission, the Guinean Trawling Survey,
the Geological Survey, the Coast Guard, the Naval Oceanographic
Office, the Coast and Geodetic Survey, the Coastal Engineering Re-
search Center, the Laboratory of Radiation Biology of the University
of Washington, the University of Michigan, the Atomic Energy
Commission, and the Government of Chile.

Through the Sorting Center, technician Jack Rudloe was employed
to make special collections as a professional collector during the Inter-
national Indian Ocean Expedition; T. Peter Lowe worked as a tech-
nician in lieu of a scientist on the Anton Bruun; and Mrs. LaNelle Peter-
son and Mrs. Cynthia Stoertz participated as professional collectors in
a cruise of the Eltanin in the Antarctic in early 1965.

Special labels and other collecting materials and forms were devel-
oped for, and provided to, the International Indian Ocean Expedition,
the International Cooperative Investigations of the Tropical Atlantic,
and the U.S. Antarctic Research Program. Duplication and distribu-
tion of these labels, as well as the provision of a central receiving and
processing facility, have resulted in increasing the effective results of
natural history expeditions by providing for better maintenance of more
collections for study.

The Sorting Center has served as a unifying influence in the system-
atics of marine organisms by providing specimens and information con-
ing the stages of their processing, together with information on the
commitments of specialists scattered throughout the world. Visiting
scientists may find working space in the Center. As a result of the
activities of the Center, an increasing number of the individual speci-
mens from multiple bulk collections are being processed for their re-
search value, and the results may be fitted together more effectively.
RESEARCH & PUBLICATIONS—-OCEANOGRAPHY 39

It is anticipated that this flourishing activity will go on from its healthy
beginning to do much to meet the challenge of man’s expansion into
the ocean.

As the most recent new effort of the Smithsonian, an oceanographic
vessel has been acquired from Navy surplus and modified slightly for
use in an investigation of coralline algae of the North Atlantic Ocean.
This vessel, the Phykos, is a converted small freighter, 133’9’’ length,
30’ beam, 650-ton displacement, which will be used principally as a
platform for SCUBA diving and for the operation of a small undersea
vehicle. It is anticipated that a crew of six or seven will be able to
operate the vessel for a scientist to collect these algae from shallow
depths around the margin of the North Atlantic. The Phykos began
operation during this year and will operate throughout the next.

ANTHROPOLOGY

The Smithsonian Office of Anthropology was created on February
1, 1965, to renew and expand the Smithsonian’s role in anthro-
pology. Uniting the separate activities of the Bureau of American
Ethnology and of the Department of Anthropology of the Museum
of Natural History, it includes all the personnel of both former units,
and its head is also an assistant director of the Museum of Natural
History. The Office consists of a division of cultural anthropology and
a division of physical anthropology, and it administers the Smith-
sonian River Basin Surveys. It also includes the archives and library
of the Bureau of American Ethnology, a conservation laboratory, and
a section for illustrations. It maintains the only set, in the vicinity of
Washington, of the Human Relations Area Files, a comprehensive,
systematic inventory of data on a worldwide sample of cultural groups.
Renovation of its office space, work areas, and storage sections in the
Museum of Natural History provides excellent space for SOA’s activ-
ities, and offices for the newly merged professional and subprofessional
staffs. Thus, for the first time since the 19th century, all the anthro-
pological personnel of the Institution is under one roof, and the foun-
dation has been laid for carrying on past activities efficiently and
initiating new anthropological programs of several types.

Publication of the Bulletins of the Bureau of American Ethnology,
which began in 1887, will cease with Bulletin 200, and henceforth
anthropological papers and monographs will appear in the new series
“Smithsonian Contributions to Anthropology,” which has a new format
and increased page size that present more effectively such material as
illustrations, tables, and maps. Unlike the Bulletins, the new series
40 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965—-MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY

will include material dealing with the Old World as well as the New.

Research in the Old World was conducted in a few widely scattered
areas. Olga Linares de Sapir, who was appointed a collaborator in
January 1965, began archeological research in Senegal with a post-
doctoral fellowship from the National Science Foundation. This
portion of Africa is one of the least-known archeologically of any part
of the world, and the establishment of a firm sequence of prehistoric
events will be of great importance.

In June, J. Lawrence Angel left for an extended investigation of
human skeletons excavated from Neolithic and other sites in Greece
and Turkey. His work, supported by the American Philosophical
Society and the Wenner-Gren Foundation, continues research in physi-
cal anthropology in Greece, carried on for many years, into the
social biology of culture change.

Field work in the Far East was carried out by William C. Sturtevant,
who from October 1963 to October 1964 was in Burma investigating
the forms, functions, and symbolism of modern Burmese dress. Prior
to returning he visited London to examine archival material on
Burmese dress.

From August 29 to October 30, Richard B. Woodbury examined in
Spain, Libya, Egypt, Pakistan, and Israel a great variety of ancient
and modern water-control systems, especially cisterns, irrigation ditches,
and terraces, for comparison with the New World techniques studied
in the Western United States and in Mexico. The trip, supported by
the National Science Foundation, included visits to abandoned Roman
irrigation works in Libya, modern farms in the Fayum using traditional
water systems, Mohenjo-Daro, a center of intensive irrigation in the
Indus Valley five millennia ago, and the restored Nabatean terraced
farms of the Negev in Israel.

Eugene I. Knez continued research on several aspects of Korean and
Japanese culture, working particularly on a bibliography of Korean
anthropology with emphasis on Asian literature, and on a study of
Japanese ceramic materials in this Institution. He is seeking to relate
the ceramics chronologically to traditional kiln sites in Japan. Knez
also visited several museums to study material aspects of Korean culture
in connection both with future exhibits and a monograph on Korean
village life that he is preparing.

William H. Crocker continued field work with the Canela of Brazil,
with whom he worked in 1963. This small tribe, living in relative
isolation and supporting themselves by a simple pattern of hunting,
gathering, and rudimentary farming, is now undergoing rapid changes
due to the pressure from Brazilian settlers in adjacent areas. Prior to
RESEARCH & PUBLICATIONS—-ANTHROPOLOGY 41

his arrival in the field in July 1964, the Canela had been moved from
their savannah habitat to a forested reservation, providing radically
different surroundings, different resources, and a serious challenge to
the continuation of their way of life. Six months before this, a Canela
woman had announced that she was receiving messages transmitted by
the motions of her unborn child. These messages were thought to be
instructions from the Canela culture hero who announced in this way
that when the child was born he would transform the Canela world
into a city with all the comforts and machines necessary to make life
easy. In accordance with his directions, this prophetess proceeded to
bring together several scattered villages, create a new pattern of danc-
ing, order the selling of personal belongings to buy goods, and direct
the stealing of cattle from neighboring settlers for consumption during
festivals. Although her child was stillborn in May, she managed to
redirect the movement into new rites adopting Catholic elements.
Shortly after this the Canela were attacked, and several were killed and
others wounded by the settlers whose cattle they had been stealing.

The prophetess, Maria, had predicted the enemy bullets would all
miss their mark because the culture hero would protect them. With
the total failure of her predictions and the death of several Canela, her
power and her cult movement became discredited. In 1963 the Canela
had been resettled, and when Crocker and his wife arrived in the field
they were able to study firsthand the effects of this drastic sequence of
events to which the Canela had been subjected. He is analyzing his
data in terms of three approaches: social, psychological, and ecological.
Socially, the Canela have been little affected by this traumatic move,
since their social system continues to function in their new external
social environment, to which they have adjusted with their usual and
remarkable flexibility. Psychologically, however, there is evidence of
a great deal of suppressed hostility which is likely to find an outlet in
the near future, both against themselves and against neighbors. So
far this hostility has affected in only minor ways their motivations and
outlook, but some Canela already are preferring helplessness and an
admission of failure to the creating of a new life. They blame their
predicament on civilization and not themselves.

Ecologically the problems are much greater: because they have not
adjusted to the necessities of forest living and its greater need for sani-
tation, disease rates, especially tuberculosis, have risen sharply; having
failed to learn to hunt in the forest, they suffer from a scarcity of meat
and considerable undernourishment; and because many materials
available in the savannah, and needed to carry out their customary
practices or to keep certain taboos, are unavailable in the forest, a
42 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965—-MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY

number of practices and related beliefs are rapidly being lost and con-
fidence and faith in their old traditions are being weakened. Crocker
has supplemented these field observations with extensive linguistic
work and kinship analysis, and a substantial series of photographs. His
field work, supported by the National Science Foundation and the
Wenner-Gren Foundation for Anthropological Research, is expected to
result in a major monograph.

The opportunity for Crocker to make on-the-spot observations of
these rapid and traumatic changes is almost unique, as anthropologists
have so often been forced by circumstances to rely on secondhand
accounts or on interviews with survivors of such rapid changes, made
years after the events took place. His results will be of importance far
beyond any interest we have in the fate of this small group of Brazilian
Indians, as they will make clearer the processes by which human groups
respond to, adjust to, or break down under the impact of sudden,
overwhelming changes imposed from outside sources. Since much of
the world today is in the midst of rapid and unprecedented change,
any of his conclusions will have very wide significance.

A very different type of field work is represented by the trip of Clifford
Evans and Betty J. Meggers to Brazil from October 5 to November
22,1964. The teaching aspects of this trip, supported by the Fulbright
Commission, are described on page 50. In addition, they were able
to make an extensive inspection tour of departments of anthropology
at various universities and museums throughout Brazil in order to
determine needs and potentials for archeological research programs.
By becoming familiar at firsthand with the collections and facilities,
and, even more importantly, with the personnel, of Brazilian institutions,
they were able to lay a groundwork for a long-term cooperative program
in Brazilian archeology in which they will have the support and co-
operation of a large proportion of the promising younger Brazilian
scholars. Such a coordinated program will make possible the securing
of data under carefully planned conditions, strictly comparable and
useful to scholars elsewhere in Brazil and throughout the world.

During the Brazilian trip, Evans and Meggers worked with Mario
Sim6es at the Museu Paraense Emilio Goeldi, Belém, Para, on sherds
from stratigraphic excavations at a locality on Marajé Island, not
investigated by them in their 1948-49 excavations there. The new
material could be interdigitated into the previously published sequence,
and they extended it back to earlier time periods with a substantial
amount of material. This new work is of special importance because
carbon samples were secured by SimGes and his coworker Napoleao
Figueiredo, to be tested at the carbon-dating laboratory of the Smith-
sonian’s Radiation Biology Laboratory. The results, it is hoped, will
RESEARCH & PUBLICATIONS—ANTHROPOLOGY 43

provide the first absolute dates for the archeology of Marajé Island, a
key locality in the prehistory of the entire South American lowlands.

A pre-doctoral fellowship from the Wenner-Gren Foundation for
Anthropological Research made it possible for Yoshio Onuki, of the
University of Tokyo Andes Expedition, to spend six months at the
Museum analyzing and studying a large collection of potsherds, received
from the University of Tokyo Andes Expedition through the courtesy
of its director, Professor Seiichi Izumi. It includes type specimens for
the entire range of Formative Period materials from the site of Kotosh
in the Department of Huanuco, Peru, and is of particular importance
for comparative purposes in view of the interest of Meggers, Evans, and
Flannery in the Formative Period of Mesoamerica and South America.

From January to April 1965, Robert M. Laughlin was in Zinacantan,
Chiapas, Mexico, with support from the National Institute of Mental
Health, continuing his study of the Tzotzil Indians, one of the surviving
Maya-speaking descendants of the famous prehistoric Maya Indians of
Central America. He has concentrated on the elicitation, through
systematic procedures, of the entire vocabulary of the Tzotzil language,
both as a basis for a Tzotzil dictionary and, even more important, as a
means of determining the ideas, concepts, and attitudes that lie behind
the more visible and material segments of Tzotzil culture. Prior to
this field work, he continued the analysis of myth and dream material
previously collected, as a means of determining the values implicit in
Tzotzil culture. Both of these approaches are significant means of
securing data on the more intangible and frequently ignored aspects
of a primitive culture.

Kent V. Flannery, who joined the staff on July 8, 1964, continued
research on both the Old and the New World with parallel programs
dealing with the beginnings of domestic plants and animals in two key
localities—southwestern Iran and central and southern Mexico. From
July through September he was at Rice University studying more than
10,000 identifiable bone fragments from prehistoric caves and villages
in the Deh Luran valley, Khuzistan, Iran. Shedding light on the
important problem of the beginnings of domestication of sheep, goat,
cattle, and the dog, these came from three archeological sites which
spanned the time from about 7900 B.C. through the beginnings of town
life about 4500 B.C. to the threshold of urban civilization about 3800
B.C. Among the important conclusions he reached is that agriculture
began in this region with the very small-scale, almost incidental,
growing of wheat and barley in forms closely related to their wild ances-
tors, and that only later were the techniques added by which farming
became the mainstay of life. He also concluded that goats were domes-
44 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965—-MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY

ticated substantially earlier than sheep, the latter apparently being
imported from distant areas after their domestication there. The
botanist Hans Helbaek, working with the expedition, has shown through
the study of details of the flax seeds that irrigation of at least this crop,
and presumably of wheat and other crops as well, began some six
millennia before the Christian era in this region—much earlier than
had heretofore been suspected.

In December 1964, with the cooperation of Mexican authorities,
and particularly of Ignacio Bernal, director of the Museo de Antro-
pologia in Mexico City, Flannery was able to visit many of the 200
already-located sites in the valley of Oaxaca. These will provide the
basis for a major archeological study of the beginnings of agriculture in
this area and of prehistoric human ecology during the centuries which
span the beginnings of village life and the growth of villages into towns,
and which led to the foundation of civilization in Mexico. Numerous
caves or rock shelters, appearing to cover the period from 6500-2500
B.C., were found. These assure abundant perishable archeological
materials such as corncobs, fragments of squash, cactus fruits, twine,
and so on. When plans now complete are carried out next year, the
study will parallel the important Tehuacan Project in which Flannery
and Richard B. Woodbury have both participated in previous years.
The intensive archeological study of key areas in such regions as Middle
America, through cooperative programs with botanists, zoologists,
archeologists, and others, is providing far fuller and more meaningful
data than have heretofore been available. Both in Flannery’s Iranian
work, now nearing completion, and in the contemplated work in Oaxaca,
close collaboration with other specialists within the Museum of Natural
History is proving extremely rewarding, as a result of the generosity
with which they make available their particular talents in a variety of
fields.

Gus W. Van Beek made substantial progress on his study of South
Arabic ceramic technology and architecture in conjunction with the
preparation of his final report on the excavations at Jahar Bin Humeid.

Before and after the meeting of the 7th International Congress of
Anthropological and Ethnological Sciences which he attended in
Moscow, August 3-10, Henry B. Collins studied museum collections
in Copenhagen, Stockholm, Helsinki, Moscow, Leningrad, and
Tblissi. Saul H. Riesenberg, who attended the same mectings, also
studied Pacific collections in several of the same museums.

As part of a larger genetical study in conjunction with blood-group
researches on Pacific populations by the U.S. National Institutes of
Health and the Australian Commonwealth Serum Laboratories,
Ethnologist William Crocker in the
field with an adopted Canela Indian
brother. (See pp. 40-42.)

Below: Work and study room, divi-
sion of cultural anthropology. On
table in foreground are ethnological
and archeological specimens being
cataloged into the permanent records
of the Museum of Natural History.

*
~

Exhibits dealing with political authority, music, and signaling were among
those added to the African section of the hall of cultures of Africa and Asia.
Others treated such subjects as weapons, clothing, control of the super-
natural, various hand-skills, and special ethnic groups. (See p. 98.)

River Basin Surveys party screening debris at Bottleneck Cave, a small rock
shelter in the upper Yellowtail Reservoir, Bighorn River, Montana. (See
p. 47.) Below: The remains of two circular earth lodges excavated by a
RBS field party at Fort George Village, an 18th-century site in the Big Bend
Reservoir of central South Dakota. (See pp. 46-49.)

RESEARCH & PUBLICATIONS—-ANTHROPOLOGY 45

Riesenberg completed his research on migrations and movements of
people in Micronesia. He also carried forward his research projects
on Ponapean political organization and folklore.

Gordon D. Gibson continued his researches on African material
culture as part of the preparation of new exhibits in the hall of African
cultures.

J. Lawrence Angel continued, for the third and final year, his re-
study of senior medical students whom he first studied as freshmen
at the Jefferson Medical College in Philadelphia. Changes in body
composition, blood serum make-up, body measurements, and external
appearance recorded in this study will clarify the process of differential
aging in man.

Lucile E. Hoyme visited the Department of Anatomy, Washington
University Medical School, St. Louis, in November and December
1964, to make observations on about 175 human pelves of known
age and sex, to supplement data already recorded on U.S. Negro
pelves at Howard University and American Indian and Eskimo
specimens at the Museum of Natural History.

Waldo R. Wedel continued research in the Plains during July and
August 1964, with support from a National Science Foundation grant.
Accompanied in the field by George S. Metcalf and Edgar W. Dodd,
his survey had two objectives: to clarify the relationships among
several late prehistoric and early historic Indian groups—those defined
for the Central Plains, for the upper Rio Grande area of New Mexico,
and the southern plains of Oklahoma; and to assess the nature of
ecological adjustments made by pre-white peoples in the transitional
zone where the subhumid eastern prairie plains environment gives
way to a semiarid short-grass or steppe environment on the west.
The area of study was selected because hitherto it has been little ex-
amined but is adjacent to better known areas providing material for
comparative study and cross dating. From a base camp in Kansas
at the Meade County State Game Farm, dune and blowout localities
along the Cimarron River and its tributaries as far west as the Colorado
line were checked. Visits were also made to the Crooked Creek
Valley and to localities on the Medicine Lodge River and on the Salt
Fork of the Arkansas River.

In the western part of this area, where the Cimarron crosses the
High Plains, pottery-bearing sites were small and scarce, often with
little but a few sherds and flints. Grinding stones, however, and some
of the many chipped-stone tools suggest aboriginal occupation ranging
in time from the Archaic period of several thousand years ago to his-
toric times, the latter represented by iron arrow points. Fluted or
46 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965—-MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY

lanceolate blades, indicative of Clovis and Folsom or of the Eden
and Scottsbluff complexes, respectively, were extremely scarce.
Non-pottery sites, marked by quantities of stone artifacts and refuse
and by clusters of hearth stones, were, however, surprisingly numerous,
apparently coming to light wherever the sandy soils along the Cimarron
have been blown away to expose former ground surfaces.

Farther east, pottery-bearing sites with an inferred semihorticultural
subsistence basis included several that merit further study. These had
pottery identifiable as belonging to the Woodland period before about
A.D. 900, to the Central Plains complex of about 1000-1450, and to
the Dismal River complex of about 1650-1750. Pottery-bearing sites
tended to occur in the immediate vicinity of springs or other depend-
able surface water supplies, some of which have almost totally dried
up in the past 50 years, thus materially changing the appearance
of the landscape and its apparent potential for farming occupants.
Potsherds originating from the Pueblo settlements on the upper Rio
Grande were seen in local collections and were coliected from a number
of sites visited; these are being examined by experts in New Mexico
for identification and dating.

The general impression from the summer’s work is that semiseden-
tary, probably horticultural settlements, more closely related to late
prehistoric cultures of central Oklahoma than to the Central Plains
cultures north of the Arkansas River, occurred at least as far west as
Meade County. Farther west were more transient economies based
primarily on seasonal hunting and gathering, with springs and ponds
as foci of human interest and with winter residence elsewhere than in
these treeless, windswept, inhospitable steppe lands.

Special attention by aerial and ground reconnaissance was given to
the vicinity of Englewood, Kans., where traces remain of fairly extensive
irrigation systems no longer in use. Persistent local traditions and
archeological reports of the 1930’s specify that these are, in part, of
prehistoric Indian origin. No evidence was found, however, either in
the remaining ditches themselves or in the scanty archeological sites of
the locality, to support the view that there was ever a prewhite popu-
lation sufficiently numerous, settled, or advanced technologically, to
have constructed such irrigation works as are now visible.

River Basin Surveys

As in previous years, by far the most extensive field activities in
archeology for the Smithsonian Institution were carried on by the
River Basin Surveys in the Missouri River Basin. This was their 19th
RESEARCH & PUBLICATIONS—-ANTHROPOLOGY 47

year of continuous operation and again included large-scale excavation,
surveys of lesser known areas, processing and analysis of specimens from
excavations, and the preparation of reports of results. During the year
23 field parties worked within the Missouri Basin, of which 11 were
in the field in July, August, or September 1964, in the following places:

1. The Sommers Site, Upper Big Bend Reservoir, S. Dak., one of
the largest in the reservoir area, with at least 50 house depressions but
unfortunately with heavy overburden, requiring the use of drag line
and bulldozer to reach house floors.

2. The Fort George Site, a small fortified earth-lodge village near
Pierre, S. Dak. Both the pottery and the objects of glass, iron, and
brass suggested occupation in the first half of the 18th century, probably
by the protohistoric Arikara.

3. The Chapelle Creek Site, 20 miles downstream from Pierre,
where previous disturbance by amateur excavators and the rise of
water resulting in waterlogging, limited severely the extent of excavation.

4. Anumber of sites on the right bank of the Missouri in the Upper
Big Bend Reservoir in which extensive test excavations suggested occu-
pation from the Middle Missouri period through the time of the
modern Dakota Indians.

5. The Davis Site and the Larson Site near Mobridge, S. Dak.
At the latter, skeletons on the floors of the most recently occupied
houses and associated musket balls and copper arrow points indicated
clearly that occupation extended from prehistoric times into historic.

6. The Stelzer Site, near Mobridge, the largest known Woodland
burial and occupation site along the middle Missouri.

7. Calamity Village, also near Mobridge, a small site protected by
moats and palisades and located on a small spur of land overlooking
the river.

8. Some 30 sites, either newly found or tested in accordance with
recommendations from previous years, in the Yellowtail Reservoir on
the Big Horn in southern Montana and northern Wyoming. The
most important of these was Bottleneck Cave, a deep rock shelter
containing at least five prehistoric occupations extending back to the
paleo-Indian time level.

9. Several new sites were found on a shoreline survey of the west
bank of the Fort Randall Reservoir, S. Dak. The degree of damage
to surviving archeological sites by bank erosion was evaluated, and the
need for additional testing or excavation was determined.

10. A survey in the Rathbun Reservoir on the Chariton River,
Iowa, with emphasis on the revisiting of previously known sites, par-
ticularly six major mound groups overlooking the flood plain. Exten-
48 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965—-MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY

sive tests yielded stratigraphic information but no cultural material
serving to identify the mounds with a known complex or to date them.
11. A brief reconnaissance of sites in the Upper Oahe Reservoir to
assess the needs for future excavation.
In April, May, and June, 1965, 12 additional field parties undertook
field work, as follows:

1. Survey of three reservoirs in eastern Kansas: the Onaga Reser-
voir on the Vermillion River, the Hillsdale Reservoir on the Osage
River, and the Garnett Reservoir on Pottawatomie Creek.

2. A short reconnaissance of several Missouri River mainstem reser-
voirs: Gavins Point, Fort Randall, and Oahe, with special attention to
sites being actively eroded.

3. The beginning of test excavation and large-scale work at a site
near Fort Yates in the Oahe Reservoir area.

4. A 1965 continuation of work at the Sommers Site designed
especially to clear additional long rectangular houses, to test non-
residential areas, and to examine possible evidence of a defensive
perimeter.

5. Excavations in the Upper Oahe Reservoir at another site with
large, long, rectangular houses.

6. Work at Fort Manuel, an important fur-trade post in northern-
most South Dakota.

7. A continuation in the Rathbun Reservoir, Iowa, of work begun
in the fall of 1964.

8. Further work in the Upper Big Bend Reservoir where sites had
been damaged by recent construction or threatened by recreational
development of the area.

9. Work in the Garrison Diversion Project of North Dakota, begun
late in the fiscal year to survey and test selected sites.

10. A revisit to the Upper Yellowtail Reservoir to obtain palyno-
logical and soil samples from selected locations.

11. Work at the Aycock Site in the Oahe Reservoir.

12. Work in the Upper Big Bend Reservoir.

In addition to the field parties from the Lincoln office of the River
Basin Surveys, a number of institutions cooperated in 1964 in carrying
out significant field work in the Missouri Basin; these included Iowa
State University, Kansas State Historical Society, the University of
Missouri, the University of Nebraska, the Science Museum of the St.
Paul Institute, Minnesota, the State Historical Society of North Dakota,
and the State University of South Dakota. Each of these had field
parties carrying on salvage excavations or survey work in areas of
immediate concern to them. At the end of the fiscal year five cooper-
RESEARCH & PUBLICATIONS—-ANTHROPOLOGY 49

ating institutions again had field parties in the Missouri Basin: the
University of Nebraska excavating in the Glen Elder and Milford
Reservoirs of Kansas; the University of Kansas working in the Perry,
Clinton, and Kirwin Reservoirs of Kansas; the Kansas State Historical
Society, also excavating in the Perry Reservoir; the University of Mis-
souri, continuing work in the Kaysinger Bluff and Stockton Reservoirs of
Missouri; and the State Historical Society of North Dakota, excavating
at the Shermer Site in the Oahe Reservoir.

One of the important undertakings of the River Basin Surveys has
been the Missouri Basin Chronology Program which recently has in-
cluded, by cooperative agreement with the U.S. National Park Service,
a review of dendrochronological data on the Plains area, being carried
out by the Tree Ring Laboratory of the University of Arizona. Initial
indications are encouraging for the future development of dendro-
chronology in the Plains as a supplement to other less precise chrono-
logical systems.

Other Scientific Activities

Henry B. Collins continued to serve as a member of the Board of
Governors of the Arctic Institute of North America, which he helped
to found in 1945, and as chairman of the directing committee of its
comprehensive “‘Arctic Bibliography,” in which are indexed and sum-
marized the contents of publications in all fields of science and all Jan-
guages pertaining to the Arctic and sub-Arctic regions of the world.
Volume 12, prepared for publication during the year, will contain ab-
stracts in English of 7,270 papers and monographs, 94 percent of which
were published between 1960 and 1962. Of these, approximately half
are in English, almost as many in Russian, and the majority of the re-
mainder are Scandinavian, German, and French. Collins also con-
tinued as chairman of the advisory committee of the Institute’s Rus-
sian Translation Project, which he organized in 1960. With a grant
from the National Science Foundation, the editing of the fifth volume
of the series, ““The Archeology and Geomorphology of Northern
Asia: Selected Papers,” was completed for publication by the Univer-
sity of Toronto Press in 1964; and a sixth volume, consisting of papers
on Siberian archeology, was expected before the end of 1965. Prior
to the merger of the Bureau of American Ethnology into the Smith-
sonian Office of Anthropology, Collins served for a year and a half
as Acting Director of the Bureau.

W. H. Crocker continued as a contributing editor for South Amer-
ican ethnology for ‘‘The Handbook of Latin American Studies” of
50 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965—-MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY

the Hispanic Foundation of the Library of Congress. In that capacity
he surveyed about 800 articles or books published from 1960 to 1964
in this particular field and prepared critical abstracts of over 400 of
the items for use in the Handbook.

At the invitation of the Fulbright Commission of Brazil, C. Evans
and B. J. Meggers received travel grants in order to give in Brazil
an intensive training course on archeological method and interpre-
tation to a select group of Brazilian archeologists at the University
of Parana. This program, conducted October 5-30, 1964, was held
at the Museu Paranaguense de Arqueologia e Artes Populares in
Paranagua and at the Department of Anthropology at the Univer-
sity of Parana in Curitiba. It was held in seminar form, six days a
week. Mornings were devoted to lectures on archeological theory and
a review of the latest information on New World archeology. After-
noons were devoted to practical workshop sessions with specimens in
order to show methods of classifying pottery, of seriating sequences,
of writing pottery type descriptions, of reconstructing regional se-
quences, and of determining the cultural history of aboriginal
Brazil. Evenings were devoted to discussions of general problems
in Brazilian archeology, the planning of field research, and the or-
ganizing of common themes for study and presentation at the 1966
International Congress of Americanists to be held in Argentina.

The seminar was highly successful, both in training and developing
the interest of a group of able young Brazilian archeologists, and in
providing the Smithsonian Institution with new contacts and an aware-
ness of current research in this region. The seminar also made possible
the planning of a comprehensive, long-range research program for
key areas of Brazil hitherto neglected or investigated only by outmoded,
inadequate methods that produce results not comparable with those
of other areas. The young scholars participating, it is hoped, will
be able to collaborate with Smithsonian archeologists in this program,
both carrying on their own research in Brazil and visiting the Museum
of Natural History for short periods for conferences and additional
training programs, and for comparative study of collections not avail-
able in Brazil.

Publications by the Statf
July 1964 through June 1965

ANGEL, J. LAWRENCE. Prehistoric man. Jn S. H. Engle, ed., New
perspectives in world history. 34th Yearbook, National Council
for the Social Studies, Washington, D.C., ch. 6, pp. 96-117, 1964.
RESEARCH & PUBLICATIONS—-ANTHROPOLOGY 51

Osteoporosis: thalassemia? Amer. Journ. Phys. Anthrop.,
n.s., Vol. 22, no. 3, pp. 369-374, 1 pl., September 1964.

BAKER, Pau. T., and ANGEL, J. LAwrence. Old age changes in
bone density: Sex and race factors in the United States. Human
Biology, vol. 37, pp. 104-121, 1965.

Cor, MicuHaet D., and FLANNERY, Kent V. The pre-Columbian
obsidian industry of El Chayal, Guatemala. Amer. Antiquity, vol.
30, no. 1, pp. 43-49, 3 figs., July 1964.

Co.uins, Henry B. Recent trends and developments in Arctic archae-
ology. Actes du VI Congres International des Sciences Anthro-
pologiques et Ethnologiques, Paris, 1960. Tome II (premier
volume), pp. 373-377, 1963.

Paleo-Indian artifacts in Alaska: An example of cultural

retardation in the Arctic. Anthrop. Pap. Univ. Alaska, vol. 10,

no. 2, pp. 13-18, 1963.

Man in the Arctic. Jn The Arctic basin. Arctic Inst. North

America, pp. 191-195, 1963.

The Arctic and Subarctic. Jn Jesse D. Jennings and Edward

Norbeck, eds., Prehistoric man in the New World. Univ. Chicago

Press, pp. 85-114, 1964.

Introduction. Jn Franz Boas, The Central Eskimo. Bison

Book Ed., Univ. Nebraska Press, pp. v—xi, 1964.

. James Louis Giddings (1909-1964) [Obituary]. Arctic, vol.
18, no. 1, pp. 66-67, 1965.

Crocker, WittiaM H. Conservatism among the Canela: an analysis
of contributing factors. In Actas y Memorias, XXXV Congreso
Internacional de Americanistas, Mexico, 1962, vol. 3, pp. 341-346,
1964.

EsTRADA, Emitio; Meccers, Betty J.; and Evans, CuiirForp. The
Jambeli culture of south coastal Ecuador. Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus.,
vol. 115, no. 3492, pp. 483-558, 1964.

Evans, Cuirrorp, and Meccers, Betty J. British Guiana archaeol-
ogy: A return to the original interpretations. Amer. Antiquity,
vol. 30, no. 1, pp. 83-84, 1964.

FLANNERY, Kent V. The middle formative of the Tehuacan valley:
its pattern and place in Mesoamerican prehistory. 224 pp. +
appendices (128 pp.), 34 illus., Univ. Chicago Microfilms, 1964.

. The ecology of early food production in Mesopotamia.
Science, vol. 147, no. 3663, pp. 1247-1256, March 12, 1965.

Hoe, FRANK; FLANNERY, Kent V.; and NEELy, JAMEs. Early agri-
culture and animal husbandry in Deh Luran, Iran. Current
Anthrop., vol. 6, no. 1, pp. 105-106, February 1965.

52 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965—-MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY

Meccers, Betty J., and Evans, Ciirrorp. Especulaciones sobre rutas
tempranas de difusién de la ceramica entre Sur y Mesoamerica.
In Hombre y Cultura, Revista del Centro de Investigaciones
Antropoldégicas de la Universidad Nacional, tomo I, no. 3, pp. 1-15,
December 1964.

STEPHENSON, Rosert L. Quaternary human occupation of the plains.
In Quaternary of the U.S., eds. H. E. Wright and David G. Frey.
Princeton Univ. Press, pp. 685-696, 1965.

Stewart, T. D. Shanidar skeletons TV and VI. Sumer, vol. 19, nos.
1-2, pp. 8-26, 14 pp. of figs., 1963.

Ale§ Hrdlicka, pioneer American physical anthropologist.
In The Czechoslovak Contribution to World Culture, ed. Miloslav
Rechcigl, Jr. Mouton & Co., The Hague, pp. 505-509, 1964.

STURTEVANT, WILLIAM C. Studies in ethnoscience. Jn Transcultural
studies in cognition, eds. A. K. Romney and R. G. D’Andrade.
Amer. Anthrop., vol. 66, no. 3, part 2, pp. 99-131, 1964 (spec.
publ.).

Mutilations and deformations. Encyclopaedia Britannica,

vol. 16, pp. 1106-1107, 1965.

Tattooing. Encyclopaedia Britannica, vol. 21, p. 834, 1965.

, DriAmonD, STANLEY, and Fenton, W. N. Memorandum

submitted to subcommittees on Indian affairs of the Senate and

House of Representatives. Amer. Anthrop., vol. 66, no. 3, pp’

631-633. (Also in “Kinzua dam,” 88th Cong., 1st Sess., H.R.,

Comm. on Int. and Ins. Affairs, Comm. print ser. 6, pp. 504-505,

1964, and “‘Kinzua dam,” 88th Cong., 2d Sess., Senate, Comm.

on Int. and Ins. Affairs, Comm. print, pp. 109-111, 1964.)

, FAIRBANKS, CHARLES H., and Rouse, Irvine, eds. Indian and
Spanish: Selected writings by John M. Goggin. Univ. Miami
Press, Coral Gables, 329 pp., 1964.

Van Beek, Gus W. Frankincense and myrrh. Jn The Bibilical Archae-
ologist Reader 2. Anchor Book A250b, pp. 99-126, 1964. (Re-
printed from Biblical Archaeologist, vol. 23, no. 3, 1960.)

, Cote, GLEN H., and JAmme, A. An archeological reconnais-
sance in Hadhramaut, South Arabia—a preliminary report. In
Ann. Rep. of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian
Institution, 1963, pp. 521-545, 1964.

WEDEL, WALDO R. Primitive man. Jn Hugo G. Rodeck, ed., Natural
history of the Boulder area. Univ. Colorado Museum, leaflet no.
13, pp. 90-96, 1964.

. Visit to Caribou, 1963. Colorado Magazine, vol. 41, no. 3,

pp. 247-252, 1964.

RESEARCH & PUBLICATIONS—VERTEBRATE ZOOLOGY 53

Woopsury, Ricuarp B., and Wooppury, NaTHALIE F. $8. The chang-
ing pattern of Papago land use. Jn Actas y Memorias, XXXV
Congreso Internacional de Americanistas, Mexico, 1962, vol. 2,
pp. 181-186, 1964.

[Review]. Handbook of Middle American Indians, vol. 1,

ed. Robert C. West. Science, vol. 148, pp. 798-800, 1965.

VERTEBRATE ZOOLOGY

Although the horizons of research in vertebrate zoology are con-
tinually expanding, this does not reduce the importance of taxonomic
studies at the “‘alpha”’ level in many groups, nor does it eliminate the
continuing need for field collecting, particularly in less well-known
parts of the world, such as the tropics.

Fishes are taxonomically the least well-known vertebrates, and re-
search on this group involves to a great extent the description of new
forms and revisions at the generic and higher levels. Victor G.
Springer is carrying out revisionary studies of blennioid fishes and re-
cently completed the examination of material for a world revision of
the genus Entomacrodus. ‘This work is one of the few intensive studies
of a circumglobal genus of marine shore fishes based on abundant
material.

William R. Taylor is studying speciation, relationships, morphology,
and distribution of several families of marine and freshwater catfishes.

Stanley H. Weitzman’s current and projected research includes
studies on the morphology and evolution of stomiatoid fishes, especially
the deep-sea fish families Astronesthidae, Melanostomiatidae, and
Gonostomatidae. He is also continuing work on the morphology,
evolution, and classification of the large South American and African
suborder of freshwater characi fishes, Characoidei.

Robert H. Gibbs, Jr., and several colleagues are studying the bathy-
pelagic fishes collected on two north-south transects in the western
Indian Ocean during two cruises of the International Indian Ocean
Expedition. The relationship of the distribution of species to physico-
chemical and biological properties of the oceans is receiving much
attention. Gibbs also neared completion of an ecological analysis of
pelagic oceanic fishes, collected 1956-1960 from the M/V Delaware,
and continued study of Atlantic Ocean flyingfishes.

Ernest A. Lachner recently completed a study of certain North
American barbel minnows. Robert E. Jenkins, graduate student,
Cornell University, and Robert Ross, professor at Virginia Polytechnic
Institute, over the past several years have amassed thousands of speci-

789-427 66——_9
54 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965—-MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY

mens from central Appalachia using electric shocking devices. Jenkins
and Lachner have analyzed the river populations of these nest-building
chubs (genus Hybopsis, subgenus Nocomis). ‘Their studies concern the
ecology, distribution, origin, and dispersal of the several species and
their infraspecific populations in relation to preglacial and postglacial
stream captures and avenues of dispersal.

In the division of reptiles and amphibians a major manuscript on
the frogs of Colombia was completed by Doris M. Cochran in collabo-
ration with Coleman J. Goin of the University of Florida.

James A. Peters is studying the systematics and ecology of the reptiles
and amphibians of Ecuador, including analysis of the results of six
ecological transects made through the Subalpine, Transition, Cloud
Forest, Subtropical, and Tropical Zones of the eastern slopes of the
Andes. The area, almost totally unknown ecologically, is an evolution-
ary microcosm, with striking examples of barrier formation and accom-
panying speciation, altitudinal zonation, ecological indicator species,
populational and community differentiation, and micro-faunules.
Field studies in Ecuador of comparative cardiac physiology (with
Robert Mullen, supported by the National Institutes of Health) re-
sulted in the first known electrocardiograms of caecilians, the rare
legless amphibians, and a large series of electrocardiograph records of
Ecuadorian snakes and lizards, which will ultimately provide a contri-
bution to physio-ecological studies of phylogenetic relationships.

Peters also published a dictionary which contains over 3500 words
and terms descriptive of the biology of the reptiles and amphibians,
including material drawn from such other disciplines as behavior,
genetics, ecology, physiology, and pathology, as well as systematics
and morphology.

Research on birds has a strong ecological orientation, with empha-
sis on sea birds in four of the world’s oceans and land birds in Latin
America.

George E. Watson has developed a cooperative research program
with the Bureau of Commercial Fisheries to study the distribution,
abundance, and behavior of sea birds in association with fish schools in
the tropical Atlantic Ocean. He participated in a cruise aboard the
Bureau ship Geronimo in the Gulf of Guinea in August and aboard the
Woods Hole research vessel Atlantis IJ off northern South America from -
October to December. These resulted in the production of an illus-
trated preliminary identification manual designed to facilitate collection
of reliable data on the distribution of pelagic birds. With J. Phillip
Angle as assistant, Watson is working on a similar manual for Antarctic
birds on a grant from the National Science Foundation. They gathered

RESEARCH & PUBLICATIONS—-VERTEBRATE ZOOLOGY 55

data aboard the aircraft carrier Croaton, used as a mobile launch facility
by NASA, off the west coast of South America in April. Frank B. Gill,
research assistant, returned to the United States after 15 months on the
International Indian Ocean Expedition.

The Pacific Ocean Biological Survey Program, of which Philip S.
Humphrey is the principal investigator, reached the end of its first
phase of general survey work at the end of June 1965. An inventory of
the terrestrial organisms and seasonal variations in their distribution
and abundance has been made in the study area, and preparation has
begun for a series of survey reports on an island-by-island basis.

Humphrey’s other research activities during the year mostly con-
cerned studies of the distribution and ecology of Latin American birds.
He continued field studies of the ecological and seasonal distribution
of birds and arboviruses in the tropical rain forest in cooperation with
Robert E. Shope of the Belém Virus Laboratory in Brazil under a grant
from the Rockefeller Foundation. During the dry season they gathered
comparative ecological data in the same study area used during the
rainy season in 1963. Humphrey also continued his research on
Patagonian birds, assisted by David Bridge.

Paul Slud, a specialist in tropical ecology, joined the staff in July 1964
and left almost immediately for a year of field work in Costa Rica.
He is part of a team working on a bioecological classification for mili-
tary environments supported by the Army Research Office. An im-
portant objective has been to study a variety of habitats in detail in
order to classify and predict plant formations and the distribution of
birds.

Alexander Wetmore continued his studies of birds of the Isthmus of
Panama and was in the field from January through March.

Richard L. Zusi made considerable research progress in functional
anatomy and adaptation, completing in collaboration with Robert W.
Storer of the University of Michigan one manuscript comparing head
and neck anatomy in the pied-billed grebe with that of the rare giant
pied-bill, and another on the mechanism of kinetics in the bird skull.
His other studies in progress include adaptive radiation in shorebirds,
for which he obtained useful data and motion pictures during field
work in Kansas and Florida. He is working on a joint study of the
evolution of the woodhewers, a group of tropical American tree-trunk
climbing birds, with Paul Slud, who has contributed specimens and field
observations from Costa Rica.

In mammals, research is oriented mostly toward studies of tropical
faunas which are far less well-known than those of temperate areas.
Much of this work is done in cooperation with specialists of other
56 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965—-MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY

disciplines. For example, Henry W. Setzer works extensively with
parasitologists in his faunal studies, supported by the Office of the
Surgeon General, Department of the Army. This year he conducted
field work in Mozambique in July and August, and throughout the
year he supervised a field team working in Iran and Pakistan and two
others working in Mozambique and Bechuanaland, each including
entomologists as well as mammalogists.

In cooperation with Vernon Tipton, Brooke Army Medical Center,
Fort Sam Houston, Tex., Charles O. Handley, Jr., began work on a
study of the distribution and ecology of mammalian ectoparasites,
arboviruses, and their hosts in Venezuela, with support by the Office
of the Surgeon General. On the project staff are 11 parasitologists, a
virologist, and an ecologist. With support from the National Science
Foundation, Handley also directed field work in Panama and in the
southeastern United States.

David H. Johnson is studying some of the Far Eastern species of the
genus Rattus as a part of a comprehensive study of the mammals of
southeastern Asia.

Publications by the Staff
July 1964 through June 1965

Cocuran, Doris M., and Gorn, CoLtEMAN J. Description of a new frog
of the genus Phyllobates from Colombia (Amphibia, Ranidae, Den-
drobatinae). Senck. Biol., vol. 45, pp. 255-257, 1 fig., December 1,
1964.

CotiettTe, Bruce B., and Grsss, Rosert H., Jr. Thunnus South, 1845
(Pisces): proposed validation under the plenary powers. Z.N.(S.)
1652. Bull. Zool. Nomencl., vol. 21, no. 6, pp. 442-443, 1964.

Dricnan, Hersert G. A new race of the Alpine accentor, Prunella
collaris, from Formosa. NAMRU-II Res. Rep. MR005.09-
1601.3.26, 3 pp., June 1964.

Birds of the Arnhem Land expedition. In Records of the

American-Australian scientific expedition to Arnhem Land, vol.

4 (zoology), pp. 345-425, October 1964.

Parrotbill (1). Jn A new dictionary of birds, ed. Sir A. Lans-
borough Thomson. Nelson, London, pp. 602-603, 1964.

—-—. Notes on the nomenclature of the whistling-thrushes. Bull.
Brit. Orn. Club, vol. 85, pp. 3-4, January 1965.

FRIEDMANN, Herpert. Evolutionary trends in the avian genus
Clamator. Smithsonian Misc. Coll., vol. 146, no. 4, pp. 1-127,
October 30, 1964.

RESEARCH & PUBLICATIONS—-VERTEBRATE ZOOLOGY 57.

Garrick, J. A. F.; Backus, RicHArD H.; and Gipgs, Roserr H., Jr.
Carcharinus floridanus, the silky shark, a synonym of C. falciformis.
Copeia, 1964, no. 2, pp. 369-375, 5 figs., 1964.

Gress, Rosert H., Jr. Family Astronesthidae. In Fishes of the
western North Atlantic. Sears Found. Mar. Res., Mem. I, part 4,
pp. 311-350, 15 figs., 1964.

———. Family Idiacanthidae. In Fishes of the western North
Atlantic. Sears Found. Mar. Res., Mem. I, part 4, pp. 512-522,
4 figs., 1964.

Humpurey, Pure 8. The swallows. Jn Song and garden birds of
North America, by Alexander Wetmore and other ornithologists,
National Geographic Society, Washington, pp. 121-130, 1964.

Jenkins, Ropert E., and Lacuner, Ernest A. The distribution and
dispersal of the cyprinid fishes of the subgenus Nocomis (genus
Hybopsis) in the central Atlantic states. Abstr. Pap. Pres. 44th
Ann. Meet. Amer. Soc. Ichthy. and Herp., p. 20, 1964.

Jounson, Davin H. Mammals of the Arnhem Land expedition. Jn
Records of the American-Australian scientific expedition to Arn-
hem Land, vol. 4 (zoology), pp. 427-515, pls. 3-16, October 1964.

Jones, J. Knox, Jr., and Jounson, Davin H. Synopsis of the lago-
morphs and rodents of Korea. Univ. Kansas Publ., Mus. Nat.
Hist., vol. 16, no. 2, pp. 357-407, February 12, 1965.

LacuneErR, Ernest A., and JENKINS, RopertT E. New cyprinid fishes
(genus Hybopsis, subgenus JVocomis) of eastern United States. Abstr.
Pap. pres. 44th Ann. Meet. Amer. Soc. Ichthy. and Herp., p. 23,
1964.

Morrow, JAMES E., JR., and Gipgs, Rospert H., Jr. Family Melano-
stomiatidae. Jn Fishes of the western North Atlantic. Sears
Found. Mar. Res., Mem. I, part 4, pp. 351-511, 45 figs., 1964.

Peters, JAMEs A. Dictionary of herpetology. Hafner Publ. Co.,
New York and London, pp. xi and 292, 30 figs., 1964.

. The lizard genus Ameiva in Ecuador. Bull. Southern

California Acad. Sci., vol. 63, part 3, pp. 57-67, 1964.

Supplemental notes on snakes of the subfamily Dipsadinae
(Reptilia: Colubridae). Beitr. zur Neotropischen Fauna, vol. 4,
no. 1, pp. 45-50, 1964.

ScuuLtz, Leonarp P. ‘Three new species of frogfishes from the
Indian and Pacific oceans with notes on other species (family
Antennariidae). Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., vol. 116, no. 3500, pp.
171-182, pls. 1-3, September 1, 1964.

Family Sternoptychidae. Jn Fishes of the western North

Atlantic. Sears Found. Mar. Res., Mem. I, part 4, pp. 241-273,

1964.

58 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965—-MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY

Suort, Lester L., JR., and Banks, R. C. Louisiana waterthrush in
Baja California. Condor, vol. 67, p. 188, 1965.

Sup, Paut. The birds of Costa Rica. Distribution and ecology.
Bull. Amer. Mus. Nat. Hist., vol. 128, pp. 1-430, 3 maps, 1964.

[Review]. Seasonal activity and ecology of the avifauna of
an American equatorial cloud forest, by Alden H. Miller. Auk,
vol. 81, pp. 444-446, 1964.

SPRINGER, Victor G. A revision of the carcharhinid shark genera
Scoliodon, Loxodon, and Rhizoprionodon. Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus.,
vol. 115, no. 3493, pp. 559-632, 1964.

[Review]. Revised classification of the blennioid fishes of

the American family Chaenopsidae, by J. S. Stephens, Jr.

Copeia, 1964, no. 3, pp. 591-593, 1964.

and Garrick, J. A. F. A survey of vertebral numbers in sharks.

Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., vol. 116, no. 3496, pp. 73-96, 1964.

and RosENBLATT, RicHARD H. A new blennioid fish of the
genus Labrisomus from Ecuador, with notes on the Caribbean
species L. filamentosus. Copeia, 1965, no. 1, pp. 25-27, 1965.

TayLor, WILLIAM R. Comment on the proposed rejection of Curzmata
Walbaum, 1792. Bull. Zool. Nomencl., vol. 21, pp. 260-261,
1964.

Fishes of Arnhem Land. Jn Records of the American-
Australian scientific expedition to Arnhem Land, vol. 4 (zoology),
pp. 45-307, 73 figs., October 1964.

Watson, GeorcE E. Preliminary Smithsonian identification man-
ual: seabirds of the tropical Atlantic Ocean. Smithsonian Insti-
tution, xxvii + 108 pp., 12 pls., 1965.

WEITzMAN, STANLEY H. One new species and two redescriptions of
catfishes of the South American callichthyid genus Corydoras.
Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., vol. 116, no. 3498, pp. 115-126) 1964:

Fishes of subfamilies Lebiasininae and Erythrininae with
special reference to subtribe Nannostomina. Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus.,
vol. 116, no. 3499, pp. 127-170, 1964.

WETMORE, ALEXANDER, with other ornithologists. Song and garden
birds of North America. National Geographic Society, Washing-
ton, pp. 1-400, 550 illus., 1964.

Aves. In New Paris No. 4: A Pleistocene cave deposit in

Bedford County, Pennsylvania, John E. Guilday, Paul S$. Martin,

and Allen D. McCrady. Bull. Nat. Speleol. Soc., vol. 26, p. 134,

October 1964.

Screamer. Jn A new dictionary of birds, ed. Sir A. Lans-

borough Thomson. Nelson, London, pp. 718-719, 1 fig., 1964.

RESEARCH & PUBLICATIONS—INVERTEBRATE ZOOLOGY 59

Seriema. Jn A new dictionary of birds, ed. Sir A. Lans-
borough Thomson. Nelson, London, p. 724, 1964.

Tody. Jn A new dictionary of birds, ed. Sir A. Lansborough
Thomson. Nelson, London, pp. 824-825, 1 fig., 1964.

Aves. In L. S. B. Leakey, Olduvai gorge 1951-61, vol. 1,
ppt 72.,. 1965.

INVERTEBRATE ZOOLOGY

Invertebrate animals are still so little known with respect to their kinds
and diversity, their distributions, and the mechanisms that control these
distributions, that much research in invertebrate zoology is necessarily
fundamental and exploratory. It is still preoccupied with “alpha”
taxonomy—the exploratory phases of systematics. The range of this
research exploration extends from the Antarctic to the Arctic and
includes all of the oceans of the world. Some of the activities de-
scribed below illustrate the nature of the department’s research and
predict the far-reaching conclusions which someday may follow these
preliminary studies.

The International Indian Ocean Expedition, concluded this year, has
provided a unique opportunity for American zoologists to cooperate in
a full-time biological! effort in one of the least known areas of the world.
Many members of the department have participated. Joseph Rose-
water completed a study of the tridacnid clams of the Indo-Pacific, in
part based upon the collections made during participation in Te Vega
Cruise A and earlier observations made at Eniwetok Atoll. He is now
considering the littorinid snails of the Indo-Pacific region, using these
same collections and others from western Malaysia, Thailand, and the
islands south of Sumatra. Charles E. Cutress, Jr., who collected exten-
sively along the Indian coast in 1963, has been describing certain of the
sea anemones.

Louis S. Kornicker, aboard Te Vega for Cruise B during early 1964,
collected from Ceylon to the Maldive Islands. He returned in Novem-
ber and December to cruise the East African coast and the coral reefs
of the western Indian Ocean aboard Anton Bruun on Cruise 9. The
myodocopid ostracods he obtained will provide the nucleus for study
of these little-known forms in the Indian Ocean. To provide com-
parative materials for his studies, Kornicker also collected from
the Bahamas and other areas from which few reference materials exist
in most museum collections.

Museum technician T. Peter Lowe made important and significant
collections of deep-water corals from south of the Malagasy Republic.
60 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965—-MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY

These specimens provide an index to the northern boundary of the
Southern Ocean fauna under study by Donald F. Squires. Although
temperatures at great depths in the ocean are quite low, there appears
to be a clear-cut faunal demarcation between a “deep-water tropical
fauna” and the deep-water corals of the Southern Ocean. Lowe also
collected reef corals from some of the more southerly coral reefs during
stops at ports in the Malagasy Republic.

Among the many intriguing studies of marine invertebrates are those
concerned with planktonic faunas, for these organisms live throughout
their lives in a medium in motion and therefore are dynamic both
spatially and temporally. Thomas E. Bowman, in his analysis of the
planktonic copepod crustaceans, has been considering the striking zona-
tion of species which occurs in an inshore-offshore progression. ‘The
zones appear to represent a series of communities which replace each
other from shallow neritic to deeper oceanic waters. Each of these
faunas inhabits water masses having potentially definable physical
characteristics; therefore, they are indicators of these water bodies.
Studies made on the distribution of two species of a genus of planktonic
shrimp indicate that these striking and easily identifiable forms could
be used for very rapid identification of some of these water bodies.
The results of this study have potential importance in understanding
the ecological basis of the fisheries off the southeastern coast of the
United States. Incidental to this research, Bowman has been con-
sidering the distribution of certain aquatic cave isopods from various
regions of the Americas, and he presented a paper on the evolution of
these forms to the Society of Systematic Zoology.

Western Atlantic stomatopods, which may become important as a
food source, were subjected to further study by Raymond B. Manning,
who is concluding his monographic treatment of this group. An ex-
tension of these studies to the eastern Atlantic was made possible by his
participation, both this year and last year, in cruises to the Gulf of
Guinea aboard the University of Miami research vessel Pillsbury. His
studies include investigations of the planktonic larvae of the stomato-
pods. In conjunction with his field-based studies, Manning completed
a revision of the Australian and New Zealand stomatopods.

Other studies of the invertebrates of the eastern United States region
were carried out by Meredith L. Jones, Marian H. Pettibone, and W.
Duane Hope. Jones, who continues his long-range program of research
upon the tropical polychaete faunas, engaged in field work in the area
of Margarita Island, Venezuela, and off Key West, Fla. He also com-
pleted an analysis of the spatial distribution of some marine benthic
invertebrates in San Francisco Bay, Calif. Such an analysis, made
Specimens lent for study by other scientists in the United States and abroad are
either sealed in cans or placed in plastic bags before being boxed. Below:
Well-illuminated, accessible shelves for storage of wet collections of marine
invertebrates have white vinyl lining to increase effective illumination at
all levels. (See p. 88.)

In Tonga, members of the biology class of Tonga College were recruited by
Curator Harald Rehder to collect mollusks from the flat behind the raised
Ha’ateiho Reef on Tongatapu. Below: In the laboratory, Rehder makes
initial identifications of mollusks collected in the Pacific islands. (See
p. 62.)

RESEARCH & PUBLICATIONS—INVERTEBRATE ZOOLOGY 61

upon collections taken with a special sampling device, permits a better
understanding of the community structure of small organisms and may
ultimately give us insight into some aspects of their behavior, but
it can be carried out only in those areas where the organisms are
sufficiently well known to permit identifications.

It is toward this higher level of understanding that research such as
that of Pettibone is directed. She continues her detailed studies of the
polychaetes of the New England region, extending from Nova Scotia
south to Cape Hatteras, and is preparing another in her series of mono-
graphs on this fauna. Polychaete worms, which constitute a large pro-
portion, by mass, of animals in many marine environments, are poorly
known and difficult to study. It is only through long-range projects
resulting in monographic taxonomic treatments for the identification
of these animals that other biological studies can progress.

Revisional studies are often possible only after long experience with
the fauna of a region or with a smaller group of organisms with which
one has had vast experience. The summary of a lifetime of work with
such a group is the objective of research associate Waldo L. Schmitt,
who is studying the New World species of pinnotherid crabs. This
study, in which Schmitt brings together what is known of the diversity
and distribution of these crabs, will permit a better understanding of
their position in the evolution of the crustacea and make possible mean-
ingful studies of their ecology and their role in the marine environment.

The work of systematics often extends beyond descriptive analyses of
species. W. Duane Hope has been considering seasonal distribution of
marine nematode worms in the Woods Hole, Mass., region. The nema-
tode fauna reflects the variable seasonal environments, as well as local,
stable habitats which might be due to a single aberrant ecological
parameter, such as the sediment type. A description of a fauna such
as the nematodes, in this region, requires, therefore, a knowledge of
distribution mechanisms, as well as of the methods by which the indi-
vidual species may be recognized. This program of research has been
underway since September, when Hope joined the departmental staff,
and is being conducted in cooperation with the Systematics-Ecology
Program of the Marine Biological Laboratory of Woods Hole.

J. Laurens Barnard, whose association with the Smithsonian began
in August, has continued his studies of the benthic amphipods of the
California coast, particularly those of the intertidal zone from Monterey
Bay, Calif., to Bahia de los Angeles in Baja California. Upon comple-
tion of this study, which is expected early next year, Barnard will
commence investigations of the benthic Antarctic amphipods.

Broad-scale zoogeographic studies such as that to be commenced by
Barnard are already underway in the Antarctic region, or more

789-427—66——11
62 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965—-MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY

properly in the Southern Ocean (the southern portions of the Atlantic,
Pacific, and Indian Oceans), by David L. Pawson and Donald F.
Squires. Pawson has been concerned with the systematics and distri-
bution of holothuroids (sea cucumbers) and echinoids (sea urchins),
particularly those of the New Zealand and Australian regions. Squires’
long-range program on Southern Ocean corals likewise has been con-
centrated in the above regions. But both investigators expect to ex-
tend their area of interest into the Southern Pacific, which is virtually
unknown biologically. The emphasis on the New Zealand and Aus-
tralian regions is not accidental, for New Zealand lies athwart the
boundary between the subtropical and sub-Antarctic faunas, and the
relationship between the faunas of New Zealand and those of the
Antarctic sheds light on the paths of migration of these faunas and on
their history.

It is well known that faunas are most diverse toward the center of
their distribution but become attenuated or less diverse near the periph-
ery. Only the more hardy species can live in the often marginal
ecological conditions which exist in peripheral regions. ‘The applica-
tion of this principle to the molluscan faunas of the marginal tropical
Pacific areas is the subject of research by Harald A. Rehder. The
immensely diverse molluscan faunas found in the tropical coral reefs
of the Pacific Ocean become less diverse in the island groups on the
edge of the coral-reef area. The diminution of these faunas reflects
their isolation, as well as their more severe environments; knowledge of
the diversity and composition of the faunas is essential for an under-
standing of the causes of such diminution. ‘To accumulate the data for
his studies, Rehder spent four months in southeastern Polynesia and
supervises a continuing program of field collection.

Although the major interest of the department is in the marine forms
of life, there has been some activity toward better understanding of
freshwater and terrestrial species. Horton H. Hobbs, jr., who has
been engaged in studies of the evolutionary history of crayfish and their
commensal entocytherid ostracods, has engaged in a project on the
freshwater and terrestrial decapods of the Antillean Islands. A report
being prepared jointly with Fenner A. Chace, Jr., deals with the fauna
of Dominica, surveyed as a part of the Bredin-Archbold-Smithsonian
biological survey of Dominica. ‘This work is a continuation of studies
of the North American crayfishes and those of the Mexican region
which have doubled the known species of these important organisms,
used frequently in experimental and behavioral studies. In connection
with his taxonomic studies, Hobbs conducted field work in the south-
eastern United States, particularly in Louisiana.
RESEARCH & PUBLICATIONS—INVERTEBRATE ZOOLOGY 63

Joseph P. E. Morrison, who continues work upon brackish-water
mollusks, also collected in the southeastern United States and the U.S.
Virgin Islands. Mrs. Mildred Stratton Wilson, who has been mono-
graphing the freshwater calanoid copepod crustaceans of North Amer-
ica, in an attempt to develop a geographic and physiographic index to
the faunal composition of individual bodies of water, had her work
delayed as a result of damage to her laboratory and library in the
Alaskan earthquake of 1964.

Publications by the Staff
July 1964 through June 1965

Bowman, THomas E. Mysidopsis almyra, a new estuarine mysid crus-
tacean from Louisiana and Florida. Tulane Studies in Zool.,
yoled2. no: 1, pp. 15—18,: 1964:

Antrolana lira, a new genus and species of troglobitic cirolanid

isopod from Madison Cave, Virginia. Internat. Journ. Speleol.,

vol. 1, parts 1-2, pp. 229-236, pls. 50-57, 1964.

An arostrate population of the copepod Acartia lilljeborgii

Giesbrecht (Calanoida: Acartiidae) from St. Lucia, West Indies.

Crustaceana, vol. 8, part 2, pp. 149-152, 1965.

A bloom of the planktonic blue-green alga, Trichodesmium
crythraeum, in the Tonga Islands. Limnology and Oceanography,
aaa p..291—293, 1965.

Ciark, AirsA M. On the identity of Clypeaster rosaceus (Linnaeus). . . .
Bull. Zool. Nomencl., vol. 21, pp. 297-302, 1964.

Hosss, Horton H., Jr. A new cave-dwelling crayfish from the Green-
brier drainage system, West Virginia (Decapoda, Astacidae).
Proc. Biol. Soc. Washington, vol. 77, pp. 189-194, 10 figs., 1964.

and Bepincer, M.S. A new troglobitic crayfish of the genus

Cambarus (Decapoda, Astacidae) from Arkansas with a note on

the range of Cambarus cryptodytes Hobbs. Proc. Biol. Soc. Washing-

ton, vol. 77, pp. 9-15, 11 figs., 1964.

and VILLALOBos, ALEJANDRO. Los cambarinos de Cuba.
Ann. Inst. Biol. Univ. Nac. Mexico, vol. 34, nos. 1-2, pp. 307-366,
5 maps, 50 figs., 1964.

Kornicker, Louis S. A seasonal study of living Ostracoda in a Texas
bay adjoining the Gulf of Mexico. Jn Publ. Zool. Stat. Naples,
1965, vol. 33, suppl., pp. 45-60, 1965.

Ecology of Ostracoda in the northwestern part of the Great

Bahama Bank. Jn Publ. Zool. Stat. Naples, 1965, vol. 33, suppl.,

pp. 345-360, 1965.

64 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965—-MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY

Kornicker, Louis S. and Kinc, CHARLES E. A new species of lumi-
nescent Ostracoda from Jamaica, West Indies. Micropaleontology,
vol stikines leipp: LOS 10M 65:

NortucotTe, T. G.; Witson, Mitprep S.; and Hurn, D. R. Some
characteristics of Nitinat Lake, an inlet on Vancouver Island,
British Columbia. Journ. Fish. Res. Board Canada, vol. 21, no. 5,
pp. 1069-1081, 3 figs., September 1964.

Pawson, D. L. The Holothuroidea collected by the Royal Society
expedition to southern Chile, 1958-1959. Pacific Sci., vol. 18, no.
4, pp. 453-470, 1964.

The echinoid genus Caenopedina in New Zealand. ‘Trans.

Roy. Soc. New Zealand (zool.), vol. 5, no. 5, pp. 63-66, 1 pl., 5 figs.,

1964.

A new cidaroid from New Zealand waters. Trans. Roy. Soc.
New Zealand (zool.), vol. 5, no. 6, pp. 67-70, 1 pl., 4 figs., 1964.
New sea-cucumbers from New Zealand waters. Rec. Do-
minion Mus. Wellington, vol. 5, no. 11, pp. 75-82, 19 figs., 1965.

Some echinozoans from north of New Zealand. Trans. Roy.
Soc. New Zealand (zool.), vol. 5, no. 15, pp. 197-224, 1965.

and Fett, H. Barractoucu. A revised classification of the
dendrochirote holothurians. Breviora, no. 214, pp. 1-7, 1965.

Reuper, Haratp A. A further note on Homalocantha. Hawaiian Shell
News, vol. 12, no. 10, p. 2, 1964.

ROSEWATER, JOSEPH. The family Tridacnidae in the Indo-Pacific.
Indo-Pacific Mollusca, vol. 1, no. 6, pp. 347-396, pls. 263-293,
1965.

SgurrEs, DonALpD F. Biological results of the Chatham Islands 1954 ex-
pedition. Part 6. Scleractinia. New Zealand Dept. Sci. and
Industr. Res. Bull., vol. 139, no. 6, 29 pp., 4 pls., 1964.

Deep waiter corals as fish food. Nature, vol. 203, no. 4995,

pp. 663-664, 1964.

Fossil coral thickets in Wairarapa, New Zealand. Journ.

Paleont., vol. 38, no. 5, pp. 904-915, pls. 147-148, 1964.

New stony corals (Scleractinia) from northeastern New Zea-

land. Rec. Auckland Inst. and Mus., vol. 6, no. 1, pp. 1-9, 1 pl.,

1964.

The Southern Ocean: A potential for coral studies. Ann.
Rep. Smithsonian Inst., 1963, pp. 447-459, 4 pls., 1964.
A new species of Pliobothrus, a hydrocoral, from the Oli-

gocene of New Zealand. Trans. Roy. Soc. New Zealand (geol.),
Voll 3019), DP!2o—25, ple Go.

RESEARCH & PUBLICATIONS—ENTOMOLOGY 65

Sgurres, DonAtp F. Neoplasia in a coral? Science, vol. 148, no.
3669, pp. 503-505, 1965.

STEVENS, BELLE A., and CHAcE, FENNER A., Jr. The mesopelagic
caridean shrimp Wotostomus japonicus Bate in the northeastern Pacific.
Crustaceana, vol. 8, part 3, pp. 277-284, 4 figs., May 1965.

ENTOMOLOGY

Throughout the department there has been marked activity in the
field and in basic research this year. Paul J. Spangler completed his
study of Peruvian water beetles for the Academy of Natural Sciences
of Philadelphia. Both larvae and adults were included in this work,
which included the description of two new genera and 12 new species,
all represented by 129 illustrations. Spangler also continued his
studies toward a revision of the important water-beetle genus Tropr-
sternus. Members of this Western Hemisphere genus have been shown
to be intermediate hosts of several important internal parasites, notably
a tapeworm cysticercoid and the thorny-headed worm, both affecting
swine in Puerto Rico. Certain species are implicated in the trans-
mission of botulism to waterfowl. Other species of Tvropzsternus are
host to many species of fungi being studied by mycologists. One of
the most significant of Spangler’s accomplishments was his discovery
of the snail Planorbina glabrata (Say)—the intermediate host of the
principal helminthic diseases of man, schistosomiaisis—on the island of
Dominica while he was participating in the Bredin-Archbold-Smith-
sonian biological survey of Dominica.

Oscar L. Cartwright is continuing his research on the scarab-beetle
genus Ataenius, which consists of about 300 described species; he spent
two months studying types in the British Museum (Natural History)
and the Muséum d’Histoire naturelle, Paris.

Research associate Doris H. Blake continued her study of the Chrys-
omelidae of the Western Hemisphere. She completed two papers and
is presently revising the genus Glyptoscelis. Mrs. Blake devoted five
weeks to research at the Science Museum, Institute of Jamaica, and
on several field trips there she acquired new material for the national
collection.

Richard C. Froeschner completed a revision of the cactus plant
bugs (family Miridae) which makes available names to be used in
ecological studies of insects important to the culture and control of
cacti. Clarification of the nomenclature of the burrower bugs (Cyd-
nidae) was accomplished by the fixation of correct names.
66 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965—-MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY

Research associate Carl J. Drake continued his investigations of the
lacebugs (Tingidae) of Madagascar, the Congo, and the Americas, but
the publication of his 634-page catalog, Lacebugs of the World, is the
most significant contribution to the knowledge of this group of insects that
has ever appeared and is the culmination of a lifetime of research and
investigation. [Active to the last, Carl J. Drake died October 2, 1965.]

Donald R. Davis conducted biological investigations of yucca and
agave moths, emphasizing differences in life histories, host specificity,
and other factors. His published work will be replete with illustrations
demonstrating his findings. Davis is also engaged in a study of the
New World Incurvariidae, small moths belonging to the superfamily
Tineoidea. In April 1965 he joined the Bredin-Archbold-Smithsonian
biological survey of Dominica for field work which will emphasize
investigations of the Tineoidea.

W. Donald Duckworth has made significant progress with his research
on the New World Stenomidae. Particularly important in this con-
nection have been the field investigations carried on in El Salvador,
Costa Rica, and Panama. These investigations have resulted in the
accumulation of much material which will contribute to our knowledge
of the ecology and zoogeography of the group. Further advances in
the research on the Stenomidae were made by his study of the extensive
collections of typical and ordinary material at the British Museum
(Natural History); also the type material from the Naturhistorisches
Museum, Vienna.

William D. Field continued his research on the butterflies of the
genera Thecla and Vanessa and initiated studies of the butterflies and
larger moths of Dominica. The latter project will include the moth
families Arctiidae, Ctenuchidae, and Sphingidae.

J. F. Gates Clarke furthered his long-term project of elucidating the
Meyrick types of Microlepidoptera. Volume 5 of this series appeared
in March 1965. The solutions to several problems and the revision of
several groups of Neotropical Microlepidoptera have been accom-
plished. The research on the moths of this area is another long-term
project greatly facilitated by a grant from the National Science Founda-
tion. Concurrently, Clarke is continuing research on the Micro-
lepidoptera of Rapa, Micronesia, and other Pacific Islands.

Oliver S. Flint, Jr., in his research on the Trichoptera (caddisflies)
of the Nearctic and Neotropical regions, has concentrated on those of
the West Indies, with the result that major papers on the Trichoptera
of Jamaica and the Lesser Antilles are nearly complete.

Research associate Thomas E. Snyder continued work on the second
supplement to his notable “Annotated, Subject-Heading Bibliography
of the Termites.”
RESEARCH & PUBLICATIONS—-ENTOMOLOGY 67

Research associate K. C. Emerson completed several projects on the
taxonomy of the Mallophaga or biting lice. In the course of his
investigations he has studied major collections of lice from birds from
Uruguay, New Guinea, the Congo, and the Pacific Ocean.

Ralph E. Crabill, Jr., is continuing several projects, mostly begun
several years ago. Among them are a monograph of the New Zealand
chilopods, a revision of the genus Strigamia, and a revision of the
Mecistocephalidae. He is also preparing several articles on the dolicho-
cephalic Geophilomorpha. Work on two projects, a monograph and
a checklist of North American Chilopoda, is suspended because of the
unavailability of certain type specimens. From May 18 to September
8, 1964, Crabill studied critical collections in London, Munich, Vienna,
Hamburg, and Frankfurt. In order to augment our material, Crabill
undertook several field trips in north, central, and southern Germany
and in the Tirol and Vorarlberg areas of Austria.

Publications by the Staff
July 1964 through June 1965

BLAKE, Doris H. Twelve new species of chrysomelid beetles from the
West Indies (Coleoptera: Chrysomelidae). Amer. Mus. Novit.,
no. 2217, pp. 1-13, 14 figs., March 1965.

CarRIKER, M. A., Jr. Mallophaga de México y Centro America
(Insecta). Rev. Soc. Mexicana Hist. Nat., vol. 24, pp. 49-67,
18 figs., December 1963.

On the genera “‘Cinconiphilus” and “Ardeiphilus” with descrip-
tions of six new species (Mallophaga, Menoponidae). Rev. Brasi-
leira Biol., vol. 24, pp. 95-108, 27 figs., June 1964.

CARTWRIGHT, O. L. Lectotype designations and new synonymy in the
genus Ataenius (Coleoptera: Scarabaeidae). Coleopterists’ Bull.,
vol. 18, pp. 101-104, December 1964.

CLARKE, J. F. Gares. A new genus and species from the Juan Fernan-
dez Islands (Lepidoptera: Blastodacnidae). Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash-
ington, vol. 77, pp. 125-126, June 1964.

Neotropical Microlepidoptera, VI. Genera Orsotricha Mey-

rick and Palinorsa Meyrick (Gelechiidae, Oecophoridae). Proc.

U.S. Nat. Mus., vol. 116, no. 3502, pp. 197-204, 4 figs., 1 pl.,

November 1964.

Catalogue of the type specimens of Microlepidoptera in the

British Museum (Natural History) described by Edward Meyrick,

vol. 5, pp. 1-581, 283 pls., March 1965.

68 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965—-MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY

CRrABILL, RatpH E., Jr. A revised interpretation of the primitive
mecistocephalid genus, Arrup, with redescription of its type-species.
Proc. Biol. Soc. Washington, vol. 77, pp. 161-170, October 1964.

Untersuchung tiber die Charaktere und Verwandtschaft
von Turkophilus. Opuscula Zoologica, nr. 76, pp. 1-6, December
1964.

Drake, Caru J. The Australian genus Euaulana Drake (Hemiptera:
Tingidae). Proc. Roy. Soc. Queensland, vol. 75, pp. 37-38,
1 fig., October 1964.

and Catiey, A. An unreported gall-producing lacebug in

New Guinea (Papua) (Hemiptera: Tingidae). Pacific Insects,

vol. 6, pp. 229-230, 4 figs., August 1964.

and HERRING, Jon L. The genus Nidicola (Hemiptera: Antho-

coridae). Proc. Biol. Soc. Washington, vol. 77, pp. 53-64, 5

figs., June 1964.

and Hm1, B. G. Some Ethiopian lacebugs (Hemiptera:

Tingidae). Great Basin Naturalist, vol. 24, pp. 83-92, 3 figs.,

December 1964.

and Quapri, M. A new species of lacebug from Pakistan

(Hemiptera: Tingidae). Proc. Biol. Soc. Washington, vol. 77,

pp. 247-250, 1 fig., December 1964.

and Runorr, Florence A. Genus Plerochila (Hemiptera:

Heteroptera, family Tingidae). Institut Parcs Nat. du Congo

et Rwanda, fasc. 44, pp. 101-113, 3 figs., December 1964.

Lacebugs of the world: a catalog (Hemiptera: Tingidae).
U.S. Nat. Mus. Bull. 243, pp. 1-634, 57 pls., March 1965.

Duckwortu, W.D. Neotropical Microlepidoptera, 1V. Anew genus
of Stenomidae with descriptions of four new species (Lepidoptera:
Gelechioidea). Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., vol. 116, no. 3497, pp.
97-114, 8 figs., September 1964.

North American Stenomidae (Lepidoptera: Gelechioidea).

Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., vol. 116, no. 3495, pp. 23-72, October

1964.

North American moths of the genus Swammerdamia (Lepi-
doptera: Yponomeutidae). Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., vol. 116,
no. 3507, pp. 549-556, 3 figs., May 1965.

Emerson, K. C. A new species of Mallophaga from Natal. Ann.
Mag. Nat. Hist., ser. 13, vol. 6, no. 72, pp. 717-718, 3 figs., Decem-
ber 1963.

A new species of Mallophaga from the Philippine Islands.

Journ. Kansas Ent. Soc., vol. 38, pp. 68-69, 4 figs., January 1965.

RESEARCH & PUBLICATIONS—-BOTANY 69

Emerson, K. C. The Vernon L. Kellogg Mallophaga type material
in the Cornell University collection. Proc. Ent. Soc. Washington,
vol. 67, pp. 46-50, April 1965.

and Sroyanovicu, C. J. A new species of Mallophaga from
the Mikado pheasant. Ent. News, vol. 75, pp. 256-258, 4 figs.,
December 1964.

Fut, OLtver S., Jr. The caddisflies (Trichoptera) of Puerto Rico.
Univ. Puerto Rico Agr. Exp. Sta. Techn. Pap. 40, pp. 1-80,
19 figs., December 1964.

FROESCHNER, RicHArD C. Larinocerus balius, a new genus and new
species of plant bug from the United States (Hemiptera: Miridae).
Ent. News, vol. 76, pp. 85-89, 1 fig., April 1965.

BOTANY

The vast forests, plains, tablelands, and islands of the New World
tropics are a reservoir of countless species of plants still to be understood
and described. For over 75 years botanists of the U.S. National
Herbarium have spent a large share of their research time exploring for
plants in these regions and in making them understood to the scientific
community through their publications.

This tradition of specialization in the New World tropics has con-
tinued into the present time. During the past year Lyman B. Smith
spent six months collecting plants in Santa Catarina and adjoining
States of Brazil in preparation for a flora of the former area. This
work is being pursued in collaboration with Brazilian botanists Padre
Raulino Reitz and Roberto M. Klein of the Herbario “Barbosa
Rodrigues,”’ Itajai, Santa Catarina. The grasslands of Brazil’s Mato
Grosso and other parts of the planalio were explored by Thomas R.
Soderstrom in association with his studies on the grasses of Brazil.
Soderstrom accompanied botanists of the New York Botanical Garden
and first collected plants around Brasilia, an area surprisingly unknown
botanically. Later, poorly known parts of the States of Mato Grosso
and Goids were visited, including a wide variety of habitats on the
Serra do Caiapé which support a rich and varied flora and made for
collections of excitingly different plants. Antillean plants were sampled
by Dan H. Nicolson, who spent six weeks on Dominica in conjunction
with the Bredin-Archbold-Smithsonian biological survey of that Carib-
bean island.

Keen interest has prompted the Smithsonian Institution to participate
actively in an international program for the preparation of a ‘Flora
Neotropica.” To this end, research associate José Cuatrecasas was
70 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965—-MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY

appointed by the ‘Organization for a Flora Neotropica” as one of
two scientific directors. For his work with the Organization, the Smith-
sonian has given him laboratory and office space to help him carry out
his responsibilities. Besides continuing his own investigations of New
World plants, Cuatrecasas will act as liaison officer, especially with
Latin American botanists, to stimulate research clarifying the taxonomic
complexities occurring in the Western Hemisphere tropics. Production
of a tropical flora for the New World is a Herculean undertaking
because of the great number of species, the shortage of sufficiently
trained botanists, and the still difficult access to many outlying regions.
It will be the labor of generations of botanists; the present hope is to
lay a sound foundation for the research of years to come.

A smaller, but nonetheless significant, project also begun this year
is the production of a flora for the Island of Dominica. Actually, this
island falls within the range of the ‘“‘Flora Neotropica,” of which the
information set forth will form a fragment. ‘The scientific aspects of
this venture are under the direction of Dan H. Nicolson, who is being
aided by fellow Smithsonian scientists as well as those from other
botanical institutions in the United States and abroad.

Mason E. Hale, Jr., carried his research on the cosmopolitan lichen
genus Parmelia to the Far East this past year under the auspices of the
National Science Foundation and the Government of Japan. He made
extensive general collections of lichens in Hawaii, Sabah, Sarawak, the
Philippines, and Japan; and through his work the Museum will have
the world’s most extensive Malaysian and Philippine lichen collections.
Hale was based at the National Science Museum in Tokyo for the
greater part of his studies abroad, collaborating there with Syo
Kurokawa.

As the facts accumulated by intensive study of plants become over-
powering in their numbers and increasingly more difficult to consult,
it becomes evident that means must be found for the rapid storage and
retrieval of these data so that they can conveniently be used for further
investigations. Presently, searches for data are subject to the vagaries
of abstracting and indexing journals and to human shortcomings, and
therefore a large body of pertinent data relative to current research
projects might easily be overlooked. Machine storing of data does not
automatically confer accuracy or reliability, since the system is only as
good as the confirmed data stored in it; but the data are always re-
trievable in their entirety, and automatic data processing, moreover,
provides ways objectively to manipulate facts in a manner not pre-
viously possible.

Botanists are realizing that data processing devices and computers
may be important tools in the treatment of botanical facts; thus, David
RESEARCH & PUBLICATIONS—BOTANY 71

B. Lellinger has completed research on the generic relationships of the
fern subfamily Adiantoideae, a taxon of 45 genera. The study was
the first of its kind to use a large digital computer to apply neo-typologi-
cal methods to evolutionary classification. The computer employed
models of character-state distributions, and chose those characters which
were most probably important to an evolutionary classification of the
taxa in Adiantoideae. Machine-made computations enabled Lellinger
to construct dendrograms illustrating the most probable evolution of
the genera. Among the resultant taxonomic conclusions which he
drew were the division of the subfamily into six tribes and the segrega-
tion of several genera. ‘These separations were made on the basis of
probability, rather than intuition. The computer proved to be a val-
uable adjunct to, but not a replacement for, conventional taxonomic
methods.

In taxonomic studies it is important to consider all evidence which
may assist in elucidating problems in plant classification and evolution
and to be concerned with all parts of the plant body, with the influence
of environment, and with pertinent chemical processes. Accordingly,
it is noteworthy that Richard H. Eyde is continuing his investigations
into the anatomy and morphology of the genus Corokta which has been
allied to the Cornaceae in most taxonomic treatments. Eyde’s data,
based partially on specimens of Corokia gathered by Smithsonian ento-
mologist J. F. Gates Clarke from the remote South Pacific island of
Rapa, permit the confident exclusion of the genus from Cornaceae.

Research on the cytology and pollen morphology of Campanula ameri-
cana has been completed by Stanwyn G. Shetler. He is preparing a
paper in collaboration with James Matthews of the University of North
Carolina on the taxonomic affinities of this species within the genus
Campanula. Along a similar vein, Wallace R. Ernst began a cytotax-
onomic survey of selected West Indian plants. ‘This will be the first
study of its kind on many of these tropical plants. Although associated
studies such as those described above may never completely replace
traditional morphological taxonomic research, they provide new win-
dows through which plant systematics can be viewed, and they present
other methods of approach to taxonomic problems.

Publications by the Staff
July 1964 through Fune 1965
AYENSU, Epwarb S., and STERN, WiLL1IAML. Systematic anatomy and

ontogeny of the stem in Passifloraceae. Contr. U.S. Nat. Herb.,
vol. 34, part 3, pp. 45-73, August 1964.
GZ SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965—-MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY

Concer, Pau S. Anew species of marine pennate diatom from Hono-
lulu Harbor. Smithsonian Misc. Coll., vol. 146, no. 7, pp. 1-5,
10 figs., October 1964.

Cuatrecasas, José. Cacao and its allies—a taxonomic revision of the
genus Theobroma. Contr. U.S. Nat. Herb., vol. 35, part 6, pp. 379-
614, 11 maps, 12 pls., 44 figs., August 1964.

Miscelanea sobre flora neotrépica I. Ciencia (Mexico),

vol. 23, pp. 137-151, 4 figs., October 1964.

Studies on Andean Compositae VI. Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash-

ington, vol. 77, pp. 127-158, 8 figs., October 1964.

Theobroma. In A. Robyns, Sterculiaceae, Flora of Panama.
Ann. Missouri Bot. Gard., vol. 51, pp. 89-97, November 1964.

CuLperson, Wiitu1AM L., and Hate, Mason E., Jr. Pyxine caesio-
pruinosa in the United States. Bryologist, vol. 68, no. 1, pp. 113-
11651965.

Ernst, WALLACE R. The genus Eschscholzia in the South Coast Ranges
of California. Madrofio, vol. 17, no. 8, pp. 281-294, 4 figs.,
October 1964.

Evusesio, Mario A., and Stern, Witt1AML. Preservation of herbarium
specimens in the humid tropics. Philippine Agriculturist, vol. 48,
pp. 16-20, 1964. :

Eypr, Ricuarp H. Inferior ovary and generic affinities of Garrya.
Amer. Journ. Bot., vol. 51, no. 10, pp. 1083-1092, November-—
December 1964.

Hate, Mason E., Jr. The Parmelia conspersa group in North America
and Europe. Bryologist, vol. 67, no. 4, pp. 462-473, 1964.

A monograph of Parmelia subgenus Amphigymnia. Contr.

U.S. Nat. Herb., vol. 36, part 5, pp. 193-358, April 1965.

and Kurokawa, Syo. Studies on Parmelia subgenus Parmelia.
Contr. U.S. Nat. Herb., vol. 36, part 4, pp. 121-191, August 1964.

Lronarp, E. C., and Smiru, Lyman B. Sanchezia and related American
Acanthaceae. Rhodora, vol. 66, no. 768, pp. 313-343, 5 figs.,
January 1965.

Morton, C. V. The nomenclature of a Madagascarian Platycertum.
Baileya, vol. 12, no. 2, pp. 36-38, June 1964.

New combinations in Lycopodium. Amer. Fern Journ., vol.

54, no. 2, pp. 71-73,-June)1964.

A new Jamaican Cyathea. Amer. Fern Journ., vol. 55, no. 1,
pp. 30-32, March 1965.

Nicorson, Dan H. Proposal to conserve the generic name Montr-
chardia Criiger (1854) against Pleurospa Rafinesque (1838). Regn.
Veg., vol. 34, p. 55, 1964.

The scrubby vegetation of the Brazilian planalto provides a variety of plant
species new to science. op left: A native collector gathers material of a
leguminous shrub for preservation. Right: Members of a Smithsonian-New
York Botanical Garden expedition arrange newly collected plants in papers
prior to drying. Below: An important step in successful plant collecting
in the humid tropics is the prevention of specimen deterioration through
rapid drying. Plant presses are filled and arranged over drying racks,
heated by gasoline stoves placed under them. Hot air passing through the
presses carries off the moisture of the succulent plant parts. (See p. 69.)

Modern stacks of fireproof and pest-
proof cabinets are used at the Lamont
Street quarters of the department of
‘entomology. Below: Fragile speci-
mens are restored by introducing a
relaxing agent into the vial. Tri-
sodium phosphate is used on such
arthropods as ticks, millipedes, and
spiders. (See p. 89.)

a ee ee ee ee

RESEARCH & PUBLICATIONS—BOTANY 73

Collecting Araceae. Regn. Veg., vol. 39, pp. 123-126, 1965.
Rosinson, Harotp E. A small collection of bryophytes from upper
Assam, India. Journ. Hattori Bot. Lab., no. 27, pp. 124-130, 1964.

A synopsis of the Dolichopodidae (Diptera) of the south-

eastern United States and adjacent regions. Misc. Publ. Ent. Soc.

Amer., vol. 4, no. 4, pp. 103-192, 1964.

Two new genera of Dolichopodidae from Mexico (Diptera).

Proc. Ent. Soc. Washington, vol. 66, no. 4, pp. 245-252, 1964.

New taxa and new records of bryophytes from Mexico and

Central America. Bryologist, vol. 67, no. 4, pp. 446-458, 1964.

Notes on Leucobryaceae in Central America. Bryologist,

vol. 68, no. 1, pp. 89-93, 1965.

A new species of Plagiochila from Venezuela. Bryologist,

vol. 68, no. 1, pp. 93-94, 1965.

Discopygiella, a new genus of Dolichopodidae from Mexico
(Diptera). Proc. Ent. Soc. Washington, vol. 67, no. 1, pp. 51-55,
1965.

——-— and HERMANN, FREDERICK J. Notes on American Grimmias.
Bryologist, vol. 67, no. 2, pp. 170-174, 1964.

Rupp, VetvA E. Nomenclatural problems in the Acacia cornigera
complex. Madrofio, vol. 17, pp. 198-201, April 1964.

SHETLER, STANWYN G. Plants in the arctic-alpine environment.
Ann. Rep. Smithsonian Inst., 1963, pp. 473-497, 12 pls., 1964.
Komarov Botanical Institute, Leningrad. Plant Sci. Bull.,

vol. 11, no. 1, pp. 1-3, April 1965.

SmirH, Lyman B. Bromeliadata of the month, no. 8: Abromeitiella.
Bromeliana (Greater New York Chapt. Bromel. Soc.), vol. 1, no. 8,
pp. 2-4, 1 fig., June 1964.

Bromeliaceas nuevas o criticas del Peru—I. Publ. Mus.

Hist. Nat. “Javier Prado,” ser. B (Bot.), no. 16, pp. 1-6, 11 figs.,

1964.

Notes on Bromeliaceae, XXII. Phytologia, vol. 10, no. 6,
pp. 454-488, 2 pls., October 1964.

Vriesea marnier-lapostollei. Bromel. Soc. Bull., vol. 14, no. 6,
pp. 108 and 109, 2 figs., 1964.

Letter. Bromeliana (Greater New York Chapt. Bromel.
Soc.), vol. 1, no 11, pp. 2-5, 10 figs., December 1964.

Letter. Bromeliana (Greater New York Chapt. Bromel.
Soc.), vol. 2, no. 5, pp. 26-29, 16 figs., May 1965.

Restoration of two Domingan Tillandsias. Bromel. Soc.
Bull., vol. 15, no. 1, pp. 3, 4, 2 figs., 1965.

74 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965—MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY

and Downs, Rosert J. Notes on the Solanaceae of southern
Brazil. Phytologia, vol. 10, no. 6, pp. 422-453, 12 pls., October
1964.

and Downs, Rosert J. Aleinodendron, novo género de

euforbiareas. Sellowia, no. 16, pp.175—178, 1 fig., December 1964.

and ScHUBERT, BERNICE G. Nuevas especies peruanas de la
familia Begoniaceae. Publ. Mus. Hist. Nat. “Javier Prado,” ser.
B (Bot.), no. 17, pp. 1-11, 4 pls., 1964.

SoDERSTROM, THOMAS R., and Decker, Henry F. Reederochloa, a
new genus of dioecious grasses from Mexico. Brittonia, vol. 16,
no. 3, pp. 334-339, 13 figs., July 1964.

STERN, WiLi1AM L., and Zamuco, Ismro T. Identity of “‘tiaong”’
(Dipterocarpaceae). Brittonia, vol. 17, pp. 35-46, January 1965.

SWALLEN, JASON R. Species of Jchnanthus in South America related to
I. ichnodes (Griseb.) Hitchc. & Chase. Phytologia, vol. 11, no. 2,
pp. 73-80, December 1964.

New South American Ichnanthus. Phytologia, vol. 11, no. 3,

pp. 145-151, December 1964. |

Two new genera of Olyreae from South America. Phyto-

logia, vol. 11, no. 3, pp. 152-154, December 1964.

and Tovar, Oscar. The grass genus Dissanthelium. Phyto-
logia, vol. 11, no. 6, pp. 361-376, March 1965.

Wurpack, JOHN J. Melastomataceas novas do Estado do Parana.
Papeis Avulsos Herbario Hatschbach, no. 4, 3 pp. (unnumbered),
1 fig., December 1963.

Melastomataceas nuevas Venezolanas. Bol. Soc. Vene-
zolana Cienc. Nat., vol. 25, no. 107, pp. 211-216, 1 fig., June 1964.

———. Botanical exploration of the Marafién rainforests. Gard.
Journ. New York Bot. Gard., vol. 14, no. 4, pp. 143-146, 8 figs.,
July-August 1964.

A Peruvian bromeliad trove. Bromel. Soc. Bull., vol. 14,

no. 6, pp. 110-116, 7 figs., November—December 1964.

Certamen Melastomataceis IX. Phytologia, vol. 11, no. 6,

pp. 377-400, March 1965.

PALEOBIOLOGY

Continuing his studies of the Permian Brachiopoda of West Texas,
G. Arthur Cooper, in collaboration with Richard E. Grant of the U.S.
Geological Survey, completed a manuscript of 4000 pages. The illus-
trations are yet to be made. With J. T. Dutro of the U.S. Geological
Survey, Cooper spent a month in New Mexico completing a study of
the stratigraphy of the Devonian of that State.
RESEARCH & PUBLICATIONS—-PALEOBIOLOGY 75

Investigation of the Lower Devonian fossil flora of eastern Canada by
Francis M. Hueber is demonstrating that this is a more diversified flora
than previously anticipated. Hueber visited nine European museums
and universities to obtain data, for comparison with the Canadian flora,
from their collections of Devonian plants from classic European local-
ities. He observed a striking similarity of occurrence and composition _
between the western European and Canadian floras. His paper “New
data on the morphology of Devonian Psilopsida and Lycopsida,”’ em-
bodying much of the new information gained from his studies of the
Canadian Lower Devonian flora, was presented at the Symposium on
Earliest Records of Plant Life, during the Tenth International Botanical
Congress at Edinburgh, Scotland.

Walter H. Adey extended his studies of crustose coralline algae
northward from the Gulf of Maine'along the coasts of Nova Scotia, the
Gulf of St. Lawrence, to Newfoundland and Labrador. His northern-
most station was at latitude 60°6’N. A collection of 3010 specimens
was assembled. Preparation and examination proceeded as the col-
lecting schedule progressed during summer, and was completed during
winter and spring with the help of museum aide Mary Cochran.
Through a rare opportunity, the sexual development of a species of the
coralline Lithothamnium was recorded and worked out. Work has pro-
ceeded in plotting of the bathymetric and geographic distribution of the
crustose coralline species in the regions where collections were obtained.

C. Lewis Gazin is investigating the morphology of the Eocene con-
dylarthran mammal Hyopsodus. He completed a study of a “‘fossil
brain” of the middle Eocene primate Smilodectes, the first well-preserved
endocranial cast of a Tertiary primate reported from this country. He
also completed a study of a series of early Eocene mammalian faunas
and their environments in the vicinity of the Rock Springs uplift.

Field work last summer by Gazin and Franklin L. Pearce of the
laboratory of vertebrate paleontology yielded rare Paleocene mammals
from the Puerco and Torrejon horizons of the San Juan Basin in New
Mexico, and early Eocene and Oligocene mammals from the Wind
River Basin in central Wyoming.

David H. Dunkle continued studies of new and poorly known fossil
fishes from Middle and Upper Devonian strata of Ohio, Ontario, and
Michigan. Accompanied by museum technician Gladwyn B. Sullivan,
he made a second trip to Tijeras, Bernalillo County, N. Mex., where
in 1963 a unique assemblage of marine fishes was discovered in the
Late Paleozoic Madera Formation. There, two types of sharks, a
paleoniscoid, an osteolepid, and a probable lungfish were collected.

Nicholas Hotton III, starting in September 1963, spent a year in a
field study of the stratigraphy and environment of the Permo-Triassic
76 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965—-MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY

Beaufort Series of South Africa, 10,000 feet thick. Preliminary study
indicates more overlap between supposedly distinct faunal zones than
hitherto suspected, and suggests that some of the lower zones may rep-
resent contemporaneous environmental facies rather than temporal
sequences.

A collection of the abundant mammal-like reptile fauna of the Beau-
fort was also made, with emphasis on the herbivorous suborder Anomo-
dontia. Knowledge of the anomodonts is vital to understanding of
Beaufort stratigraphy and paleoecology because of their abundance
and variety and because of their basic position in the food pyramid of
Permo-Triassic times.

Publication of Clayton E. Ray’s research on later Cenozoic mammals
included three papers on Antillean faunas. <A survey of fossil walruses
of the eastern states is in progress.

With museum specialist John E. Ott, Ray spent two weeks in Florida
collecting a partial skeleton of a mammoth discovered by a Boy Scout
troop. The specimen was donated to the Institution by Explorer Post
410 of Wauchula, Fla. Ray is also studying Pleistocene musk oxen
referred to him by Virginia Polytechnic Institute.

Research associate Remington Kellogg continued investigating the
developmental history of the Cetacea with special reference to the
Mysticeti. A study of a Calvert Miocene sirenian was completed.

Richard S. Boardman and research associate John Utgaard completed
a major restudy of some genera of Paleozoic Bryozoa. Their paper
includes an interpretative section on the budding of most incrusting
forms, illustrated by 3-dimensional cutaway drawings by scientific
illustrator Lawrence B. Isham. Boardman has begun an investigation
of living species of cyclostome Bryozoa considered closely related to
Paleozoic forms. Microstructure of the calcareous walls of individuals
in the colonies is being studied jointly with Kenneth M. Towe, using
the electron microscope.

In other research on Bryozoa, museum specialist Frederick J. Collier
finished a detailed taxonomic study of two Devonian genera that will
be the nucleus for a larger publication on rhomboporoid genera.

Richard H. Benson, professor of geology at the University of Kansas,
joined the staff in July 1964 to work on Recent and fossil ostracodes.
He spent his first five months in the western Indian Ocean as a member
of the scientific party on the R/V Anton Bruun. He collected thousands
of specimens off Africa and Madagascar and has begun to sort and de-
scribe them. Benson is also completing a survey of the effects of the
formation of Bering Strait on the ostracodes of the North Pacific and
Arctic Oceans.
RESEARCH & PUBLICATIONS——PALEOBIOLOGY AT

Martin A. Buzas completed a manuscript on a multivariate analysis
of some species of Elphidium. He is currently applying the same ca-
nonical analysis to the distribution and abundance of Foraminifera off
Texas. In addition, he has been surveying the Foraminifera in Chesa-
peake Bay as part of a preliminary sampling program which will be
followed by an ecological study of the Foraminifera in the Bay. In
cooperation with the Marine Biological Laboratory at Woods Hole,
Mass., Buzas has also been studying the distribution and abundance of
Foraminifera in Hadley Harbor, Mass.

Richard Cifelli continues his studies of planktonic Foraminifera from
the north and equatorial Atlantic in a cooperative program with the
Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution that includes the detailed sur-
vey and sampling of portions of the Mid-Atlantic Ridge. Last year
the R/V Chain surveyed around latitude 22° N., and many cores,
bottom samples, and dredges were collected from the crest and flank
of the Ridge. Several samples yielded chunks of cemented foraminif-
eral oozes associated with basalt and basaltic weathering products.
The oozes are all late Tertiary, but represent at least two and possibly
three distinct ages. From the relationships between the oozes and the
basalts, it appears that the latter were deposited during the late Miocene
or early Pliocene.

Erle G. Kauffman continues to study the Mesozoic pelecypod groups
Inoceramidae, Ostreidae, and Thyasira. A morphologic and supra-
specific taxonomic revision of the Inoceramidae and a study of the
Caribbean Cretaceous inoceramids were completed. Significant prog-
ress was made on study of the Upper Cretaceous Inoceramidae of
North America. A study of American Cretaceous Thyasira and three
studies dealing with the Ostreidae are completed or in progress. Work
was initiated on a major revision of early Upper Cretaceous stratigraphy
in Colorado and Kansas, and several local biostratigraphic studies in
Colorado and New Mexico are in progress. Kauffman was in the field
for three months’ work on Cretaceous paleontology and stratigraphy of
the Rocky Mountains, and he conducted two weeks of research in
Trinidad.

In an effort to understand the living habits of fossil echinoids, Porter
M. Kier three years ago started a study of the echinoids living off the
Florida Keys. Using scuba gear, he and Richard E. Grant of the U.S.
Geological Survey mapped the distribution of 17 species found between
the shore and a depth of 110 feet seaward of the reef. Particular atten-
tion was paid to the relationship of the echinoids to the bottom, vegeta-
tion, depth, and nearness to shore. Most species were restricted to a
78 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965—-MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY

narrow depth range and to a particular type of bottom. The species
living on sand were only rarely found on rock or coral.

Kenneth M. Towe, who joined the staff on October 1, 1964, is in
process of setting up a laboratory for research with the electron micro-
scope. His principal interests include calcification and shell structure,
and clay and colloid mineralogy.

Research associate Wendell P. Woodring spent two months in Central
America collecting Tertiary mollusks for a continued study of the
paleontology and stratigraphy of Panama, Costa Rica, and adjacent
areas. He is currently in the field collecting faunas from the classical
Tertiary localities of Italy and France. Research associate Franco
Rasetti completed one phase of study on a new Lower Cambrian tri-
lobite fauna from the Taconic region of New York. And research
associate Axel A. Olsson continues his studies of South American
Tertiary Mollusca.

Publications by the Staff
July 1964 through June 1965

ApvEy, WALTER H. The genus Phymatolithon in the Gulf of Maine.
Hydrobiologia, vol. 24, nos. 1-3, pp. 377-420, September 1964.

Benson, RicHARD H. Recent cytheracean ostracodes from McMurdo
Sound and the Ross Sea, Antarctica. Univ. Kansas Paleont.
Contr., art. 6, pp. 1-36, pls. 1-4, figs. 1-25, 1964.

Photography of microfossils. Zn Handbook of paleontological

techniques, eds. B. Kummel and D. Raup, sect. F, pp. 433-446,

W965:

Recent podocopid and platycopid ostracodes of the Pacific.
In Ostracods as ecological and paleoecological indicators. Publ.
Staz. Zool. Napoli, suppl. 33, 40 pp., 1965.

—w- and Manppocks, R. F. Recent ostracodes of Knysha estuary,
Cape Province, Union of South Africa. Univ. Kansas Paleont.
Contr., art. 5, pp.1—39, pls. 1-6, figs. 1-22, 1964.

and Tatro, J. O. Faunal description of Ostracoda of the
Marlbrook Marl (Campanian), Arkansas. Univ. Kansas Paleont.
Contr., art. 7, pp. 1-32, pls. 1-6, figs. 1-15,-1964.

BoaRDMAN, RIcHARD S., and UTGAARD, JOHN. Modifications of study
methods for Paleozoic Bryozoa. Journ. Paleont., vol. 38, no. 4,
pp. 768-770, 1964.

Buzas, Martin A. Foraminifera from late Pleistocene clay near
Waterville, Maine. Smithsonian Misc. Coll., vol. 145, no. 8,
20) pps, (5 plss, 1965.

RESEARCH & PUBLICATIONS—PALEOBIOLOGY 79

CIFELLI, RicHArD. Planktonic Foraminifera from the western North
Atlantic. Smithsonian Misc. Coll., vol. 148, no. 4, 36 pp., 9 pls.,
1965.

, SAcHs, K. N., Jr., and Bowen, V. T. Ignition to concen-
trate shelled organisms in plankton samples. Deep-Sea Res., vol.
11, pp. 621-622, 1964.

Cooper, G. ARTHUR, and GRANT, RicHARD E. New Permian strat-
igraphic units in Glass Mountains, West Texas. Amer. Assoc.
Petrol. Geol. Bull., vol. 48, no. 9, pp. 1581-1588, 2 figs., September
1964.

DunkLe, Davin H. Preliminary description of a paleoniscoid fish from
the Upper Devonian of Ohio. Scient. Publ. Cleveland Mus.
Nat. Hist., n.s., vol. 3, no. 1, pp. 1-16, 3 pls., 5 figs., October 1964.

The presumed holocephalan fish Pseudodontichthys whitei
Skeels. Scient. Publ. Cleveland Mus. Nat. Hist., n.s., vol. 3,
no. 3, pp. 1-10, 1 pl., 2 figs., May 1965.

Gazin, C. Lewis. A study of the early Tertiary condylarthran mammal
Meniscotherium. Smithsonian Misc. Coll., vol. 149, no. 2, 98 pp.
Pippis., 9 tigs., 1965.

Hooyer, D. A., and Ray, CLtayton E. A metapodial of Acratocnus
(Edentata: Megalonychidae) from a cave in Hispaniola. Proc.
Biol. Soc. Washington, vol. 77, pp. 253-258, December 1964.

Horton, Nicuoxas, III. Tetrapods. In: Handbook of paleontological
techniques, eds. B. Kummel and D. Raup, 1965.

HvugBer, Francis M. The Psilophytes and their relationship to the
origin of ferns. Mem. Torrey Bot. Club, vol. 21, no. 5, pp. 5-9,
November 1964.

Jounson, J. H., and ApEy, WALTER H. Studies of Lithophyllum and
related algal genera. Quart. Colorado Sch. Mines, vol. 60, no. 2,
o7 pp., 21 pls., April 1965.

KAUFFMAN, ERLE G. Costellacesta, a new subgenus of Lima from the
Cretaceous of the Gulf and Atlantic Coast Province. Tulane
Stud. Geol., vol. 2, no. 3, pp. 89-101, 1 pl., 3 figs., 1964.

The Upper Cretaceous Jnoceramus of Puerto Rico (published

abstract and 30-page mimeographed copy of manuscript). Abstr.

4th Caribbean Geol. Conf., Trinidad, p. 1, 1965.

Collecting in concretions, nodules, and septaria. Handb.
Paleont. Techn., sect. A, pp. 175-184, 1965.

Kier, Porter M. Fossil echinoids from the Marshall Islands, U.S.
Geol. Surv. Prof. Pap. 260-—GG, pp. 1121-1127, pl.-32,; figs: -328=
331, 1964.

80 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965—-MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY

, GRANT, RicHarp E., and YocHELson, Exxis L. Whitening
fossils. Handb. Paleont. Techn., sect. F., pp. 453-456, 1965.
McAtEsTER, A. L.; SPEDEN, I. G.; and Buzas, Martin A. Ecology of
Pleistocene molluscs from Martha’s Vineyard—A reconsideration.

Journ. Paleont., vol. 38, pp. 985-991; 1964.

RaseEtT1, FRANco. New Lower Cambrian trilobite faunas of north-
eastern Tennessee. Smithsonian Misc. Coll., vol. 148, no. 3, 127
pp. 2iepl.,) 1965:

Ray, CLtayTon E. A small assemblage of vertebrate fossils from Spring
Bay, Barbados. Journ. Barbados Mus. and Hist. Soc., vol. 31,
no. 1, pp. 11-22, November 1964.

The relationships of Quemisia gravis (Rodentia: ?Heptaxo-

dontidae). Smithsonian Misc. Coll., vol. 149, no. 3, 12 pp.,

1 pl., April 1965.

and Lipps, Lewis. An assemblage of Pleistocene vertebrates
and mollusks from Bartow County, Georgia (abstr.). Bull. Georgia
Acad. Sci., vol. 23, no. 2, p. 67, April 1965.

Sout, Norman F., and KAurFrMAn, ERLE G. Giant Upper Cretaceous
oysters from the Gulf coast and Caribbean. U.S. Geol. Surv.
Prof. Pap. 483—-H, 22 pp., 5 pls., 3 figs., 1964.

MINERAL SCIENCES

The department of mineral sciences completed its first full year as
a separate department on October 15, 1964. Kurt Fredriksson joined
the staff in July 1964 to head the division of meteorites and to implement
a research program supported by the National Aeronautics and Space
Administration. Later in the year Brian Mason joined the meteorite
group, and in August 1964 William G. Melson joined the staff to head
the division of petrology.

The division of meteorites now operates a modern and complete elec-
tron microprobe laboratory. Emission and x-ray fluorescence spec-
troscopy and x-ray diffraction facilities have also been added. The
optical microscopy and photographic equipment has been upgraded
and extended. The chemical laboratory has obtained modernized
equipment for sample preparation and spectrophotometry.

The electron microprobe is an instrument for nondestructive ele-
mental analysis of extremely small (~ 1 micron) particles of material
or areas. In operation, a polished sample, such as a petrographic thin
section, is bombarded with a finely focused electron beam. The
elements present in the sample then emit their characteristic x-ray
Electron probe x-ray microanalyzer in the division of mete-
orites. To the right are high-voltage and _ electron-lens
power supplies and vacuum controls. The main tank has the
electron gun (top), a microscope, sample chamber with
access door and sample stage, and three spectrometers. ‘To
the left of the operator are beam-scanning controls and display
oscilloscopes with camera. The recording unit at the left
contains detector and control-voltage supplies, strip-chart
recorders, and x-ray counting devices (scalers) connected to
the automatic typewriter (far left). The instrument was
obtained under a grant (NsG—688) from the National Aero-
nautics and Space Administration for meteorite research
now in progress. (See p. 80-81.)
cee

Uncut diamond crystal of extraordinary size (253.7 carats) and unusually
perfect form was taken from the Dutoitspan mine, near Kimberley, South
Africa. Given by Harry Winston, Inc., in memory of Sir Ernest Oppen-
heimer, Chairman of the Board of De Beers Consolidated Mines, Ltd.,

9 until his death in 1957. (See p. 97.)

RESEARCH & PUBLICATIONS—MINERAL SCIENCES 81

spectra that are analyzed with three focusing spectrometers, and the
elements determined. Quantitative analysis is obtained by comparing
the intensity of a specific spectral line emitted by the sample to a
standard of known composition. The sensitivity of the method is
usually better than 0.1 percent, and since the sample weight can be of
the order of 10°” grams, it may be possible to detect 107 grams of an
element. The electron beam can be made to sweep the area of the
sample synchronously with an oscilloscope on which the light intensity
is modified by the x-rays emitted from the sample. By means of
this technique a “map” can be obtained illustrating semiquantita-
tively the distribution of all elements heavier than lithium in areas
from about 10 x 10 to 500 x 500 microns.

The acquisition of an x-ray diffraction unit, used for identifying and
estimating abundances of different phases in meteorites, has filled a
long-time deficiency in the department’s facilities. Also acquired was
an x-ray fluorescence unit which attaches to the diffractometer. This
is used for routine survey analyses of meteorites and rocks before
deciding if more costly wet-chemical analysis is warranted. Newly
acquired emission spectrographic equipment makes it possible to
perform semiquantitative spectrographic analyses, particularly for the
first survey of an unknown sample when only a small amount, a
milligram or less, is available.

Although the new laboratory has been operating for only six months,
an intensive program of meteorite research has been pursued, the
scope and variety of which is indicated by the publications that have
ensued.

Edward P. Henderson and Brian Mason collected tektites and
meteorites in the interior of Australia for approximately six weeks.
A number of fine specimens, including one unique form, were found,
and the material is presently being studied in detail as to morphology
and material loss during the flight through the atmosphere. This
work is being carried out in cooperation with scientists from the NASA
Ames Research Center, Moffett Field, Calif. Significant evidence for
the fall of tektites in defined “streaks”? was obtained.

Henderson’s study of hexahedrites shows that the world-wide dis-
tribution is suggestive of showers rather than individual falls.

Mason published a fundamental study of the distribution of plagi-
oclase in chondrites. ‘The presence or absence of this mineral is related
to the olivine composition and the type of pyroxene present. From
these observations it was concluded that most chondrites have under-
gone solid-state recrystallization and that the amount of plagioclase and
orthopyroxene may be a measure of the intensity of this metamorphism.

789-427 6613
82 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965—-MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY

With H. B. Wiik, Mason published new descriptions of four meteorites,
and he was also coauthor of a paper describing a peculiar new
mineral “‘sinoite,” silico oxynitride (Si,N,O), found in several enstatite
chondrites.

Another new mineral was described by Fredriksson and Henderson
(1965). It was first found in enstatite chondrites but is also present in
a stony-iron (Mount Egerton) and an iron meteorite (Horse Creek).
The findings indicate a close relationship between these different classes
of meteorites. Together with K. Keil of the Ames Research Center,
Fredriksson published a microprobe analysis of olivine and pyroxene
of 90 chondrites, and also a detailed study of the Murray carbonaceous
chondrite. These data, as well as the discovery of glass enclosing
metallic nickel-iron in the Chainpur chondrite by Fredriksson and
Reid, make it possible to set rather rigid boundary conditions for the
formation of chondrules and chondrites. ‘There is exceedingly strong
evidence for the supposition that chondrules are quenched droplets and
that the nickel-iron in chondrites is cogenetic with the main part of
the silicates olivine and pyroxene.

From an investigation of the mineral phases in the Orgueil carbona-
ceous meteorite and their equilibrium relations, completed by Fredriks-
son and Kurt Bostrom, University of California, San Diego, it could be
shown that the minerals in Orgueil are not in equilibrium but represent
at least three different temperature stages. ‘The last formed minerals
indicate the presence of an external source of oxidation, possibly water
dissociated by ultraviolet radiation.

E. Olsen and Fredriksson described iron phosphates from iron
meteorites. ‘Thermodynamic calculations of the system metallic iron,
iron phosphide, and iron phosphate indicate that the degree of oxida-
tion of fine octahedrites is approximately the same as in ordinary
chondrites and considerably higher than in enstatite chondrites.

Roy S. Clarke, Jr., completed analyses of two iron meteorites, Bogou
and Angelica, and one stony meteorite, Harleton. Eugene Jarosewich
analyzed the Bonita Springs chondrite and is working on two of the
unequilibrated chondrites, Semarkona and Sharps. An investigation
of the distribution of gallium and germanium in iron meteorites and
stony-irons is in progress. Tektite studies, particularly relating to the
Martha’s Vineyard and Georgia tektites, are continuing. Clarke is
working on this project cooperatively with colleagues at the Corning
Glass Works and the U.S. Geological Survey. He also continues
cooperative work with Rutherford J. Gettens of the Freer Gallery on
iron-oxide corrosion products associated with antique bronze objects.

Paul Ramdohr, professor emeritus, University of Heidelberg, and
temporarily on the staff of the Geophysical Laboratory, made micro-
RESEARCH & PUBLICATIONS—-MINERAL SCIENCES 83

scopical investigations of a large number of polished sections of
meteorites.

In the division of mineralogy, George S. Switzer worked on a group
of rare ammonium-sulfate minerals, and on a description of one of these,
letovicite, from the Geysers, Sonoma County, Calif. He found that
published composition of letovicite is given correctly as (NH,)3H(SO,).,
but that the crystallographic data for letovicite given in standard
reference works are for the artificial compound NH,HSO,, not known
as a mineral. Work on this poorly described group of minerals is
continuing.

In spring of 1965 Switzer spent several weeks in South Africa visiting
diamond mines. Of particular interest were the “pipe”? mines where
diamonds are found in their original matrix of the ultramafic rock
kimberlite. Collections were made of kimberlite from several mines in
the Republic of South Africa and in Tanzania, and of the eclogite
inclusions in these pipes. A detailed mineralogical study of these
collections has been started, an extension of work done some time ago
on similar rocks occurring in California. A closely related long-range
study underway is the composition of garnet from rocks of all types,
and in particular from eclogite, as a first phase of the study.

Paul E. Desautels continued work on a suite of radioactive minerals
from a new occurrence in Mexico. John S. White, Jr., continued work
on a first description of the crystallography of natural crystals of platt-
nerite. During the year Desautels and White spent two weeks in
Oaxaca, Mexico, examining an area of pegmatites containing an in-
teresting suite of minerals, including scapolite crystals of very large
(up to two feet) size.

The origin of the ocean basins is a subject of speculation largely
because very little is known concerning the rocks which compose them.
The geologic contrast between the igneous and metamorphic rocks of
the continents and ocean basins is only poorly known. Rocks obtained
during recent deep-sea dredgings have demonstrated particularly that
important modifications are required in current theories about the
origin of the ocean basins and about processes of rock formation be-
neath the sea floor.

During the past year in the division of petrology W. G. Melson began
a cooperative study with Vaughan T. Bowen and Tjeerd van Andel of
the Woods Hole and Scripps Oceanographic Institutions, respectively,
concerning rocks from the Mid-Atlantic Ridge. This study, which
began when Melson visited Woods Hole in March, resulted in the
discovery of metabasalts in the Mid-Atlantic Ridge. Such rocks may
require modification of existing theories about the origin of the Ridge.
84 | SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965—MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY

The study of these rocks, nearly completed during the pastyear, is
scheduled for completion before December 1965.

In conjunction with Bowen, Melson began a second study, con-
cerning a large group of ultramafic rocks collected from St. Pauls
Rocks and from the surrounding sea floor. St. Pauls Rocks, situated
on the central portion of the Mid-Atlantic Ridge, is believed by
many petrologists to be an upthrusted portion of the earth’s mantle
and is thus particularly worthy of a detailed petrologic study. This
study to date has resulted in electron microprobe analyses of an amphi-
bole which has a composition approximating basalts, and is of interest
in connection with the origin of basalts. A preliminary publication on
this amphibole and associated rocks should be completed by the end
of 1965.

Melson has manuscripts in press on phase equilibria in calc-silicate
hornfels, Lewis and Clark County, Mont., and on plagioclase-spinel-
eraphite zenoliths in metallic iron-bearing basalts, Disko Island,
Greenland, and he has completed a manuscript on the geology and
mineral deposits of the Lincoln area, Lewis and Clark County, Mont.
Additional field and laboratory studies of the latter topic are planned.
He also began a long-term study of the igneous and metamorphic rocks
of west central Montana.

Short-term studies begun during the past year include: (1) high-
magnesium chlorites, Natural Bridge, N.Y. (cooperatively with Mar-
garet Foster of the U.S. Geological Survey); (2) corundum-bearing
gneisses, Montana (cooperatively with George S. Switzer); (3) pumice
from the South Pacific Ocean (with George E. Watson of the division
of birds); and (4) magnetic particles from the Red Sea floor (with
Sidney Knott, of the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution, and
Charles Fiori).

Publications by the Staff
July 1964 through Fune 1965

ANDERSEN, C. A.; Ker, K.; and Mason, Brian. Silicon oxynitride:
a meteorite mineral. Science, vol. 146, pp. 256-257, 1964.

DESAUTELS, Paut E. The gemstone collection of the U.S. National
Museum. Lapidary Journ., vol. 19, no. 1, pp. 4-11, 14, 18, 22,
and 26-28, April 1965.

FREDRIKSSON, K., and ANDERSEN, C. A. Electronprobe analysis of
copper in meneghinite. Amer. Mineral., vol. 49, pp. 1467-1469,
September—October 1964.
RESEARCH & PUBLICATIONS—MINERAL SCIENCES 85

; DE Cart, P. S.; Pepin, R. O.; TuRNER, G.; and REYNOLDs,
J. H. Shock emplaced argon in a stony meteorite. Journ.
Geophys. Res., vol. 69, no. 7, pp. 1403-1411, 1964.

and Henperson, E. P. The Horse Creek, Baca County,

Colorado, meteorite (abstr.). Trans. Amer. Geophys. Union,

vol. 46, p. 121, 1965.

and Kem, K. The Fe, Mg, Ca and Ni distribution in co-
existing minerals in the Murray carbonaceous chondrite. Meteor-
itics, vol. 2, pp. 201-207, 1964.

HENDERSON, E. P. Hexahedrites. Smithsonian Misc. Coll., vol. 148,
no. 5, 41 pp., 1965.

and Dore, H. M. The Port Orford meteorite. Ore Bin,
vol. 26, no. 7, pp. 113-130, 1964.

Kei, K., and Freprixsson, K. The iron, magnesium, and calcium
distribution in coexisting olivines and rhombic pyroxenes of chon-
drites. Journ. Geophys. Res., vol. 69, pp. 3487-3515, 1964.

; Mason, B.; Wux, H. B.; and Freprixsson, K. The Chainpur
meteorite. Amer. Mus. Novitates, no. 2173, 28 pp., 1964.

Mason, Brian. The meteorite and tektite collection of the American
Museum of Natural History. Amer. Mus. Novitates, no. 2190,
40 pp., 1964.

Meteority [Russian transl. of Meteorites (Wiley, 1962)].

Mir Publ., Moscow, 305 pp., 1965.

Feldspar in chondrites. Science, vol. 148, p. 943, 1965.

The chemical composition of olivine-bronzite and olivine-

hypersthene chondrites. Amer. Mus. Novitates, no. 2223, 38 pp.,

1965.

and Wuxk, H. B. The composition of the Forest City, Tenn-
asilm, Weston, and Geidam meteorites. Amer. Mus. Novitates,
no. 2220, 20 pp., 1965.

Otsen, E., and Freprixsson, K. Iron phosphates in iron meteorites
(abstr.). Trans. Amer. Geophys. Union, vol. 46, pp. 121-122,
1965.

Switzer, G. Thirty-ninth annual report on the diamond industry
1963. Jewelers’ Circular-Keystone, Philadelphia, 70 pp., 1964.

; CLARKE, Roy S., Jr.; SmInKANKAS, JOHN; and WorTHING,

Hevten W. Fluorine in hambergite. Amer. Mineral., vol. 50,

pp. 85-95, January-February 1965.

The Collections
CARE AND CONSERVATION

SPECIMENS ACCESSIONED, IDENTIFIED, AND DISTRIBUTED—
FISCAL YEAR 1965

Accessions Trans- Lent for
(transac- ferred to study to
tions) Exchanged other Gov- investigators
1965 Received with other ernment and other Specimens
Departments (new) on loan institutions agencies institutions identified
Anthropology . . 108 18 81 84 3, 637 4,139
Invertebrate Zool-

Opty: SS eh 368 661 1, 544 0 16,158 32, 625
Vertebrate Zool-

Opy\ ase) el ales 210 6, 748 1,120 1 10,545 20, 834
Entomology. . . 523 0 3, 908 57 165,220 9, 107
Botanvee eee 315 439 20,209 1,811 28,534 12, 641
Paleobiology . . 156 853 Pd BE) 0 6, 412 45, 890
Mineral Sciences . 289 6 1, 907 244 1, 444 ae1d5

sotaliyy sar. 1, 969 8,725 31,142 2,197, 1319505 1265S 5

ANTHROPOLOGY

Physical renovation of office and storage space in the Office of Anthro-
pology, and the administrative reorganization of the Office, have both
necessitated and made possible extensive rearrangements and improve-
ments in storage facilities and in procedures for processing, accessioning,
and cataloging new specimens. The 5000 drawers of skeletal material
were placed in an alphabetical arrangement of states and foreign
countries, with a special placing of the Huntington collection of early
20th-century Americans (largely born abroad). This work was skill-
fully supervised by Donald Ortner. The African collections were
placed in a systematic, geographical arrangement, and within each
major area many objects formerly arranged by type were rearranged
by tribe. The Old World archeological collections were rearranged.
And the Smithsonian’s sizable collection of Japanese ceramics was
classified according to geographic regions and to the kilns of Japan.
Objects resulting from acculturation, whether made for export or for
sophisticated local use, were placed apart from the traditional specimens.
Rearrangement and reidentification of the Japanese ceramics were
greatly facilitated by the assistance of Mr. and Mrs. Victor Hauge.

The American Foundation for the Study of Man has loaned the
Museum all its archeological material from southern Arabia, the
finest and largest such collection in the world, and except for selected
specimens to be used in the new hall of Old World archeology, this will
be maintained as a separate study collection.

86
THE COLLECTIONS—CARE AND CONSERVATION 87

All the paintings that were made by Europeans or other non-native
artists and that were in the former division of ethnology have been
transferred on a long-term loan to the National Collection of Fine Arts.
This includes, particularly, the extensive series of Indian paintings by
George Catlin and the excellent facsimiles of the paintings of John
White.

The archives formerly part of the Bureau of American Ethnology
are now a part of the Office of Anthropology and continue to serve
anthropologists and other scholars throughout the world. Several
extensive collections of photographs were cataloged, particularly
covering the years from 1890 to the early 1900’s and mainly recording
details from tribes of the Plains and Southwest, but also including the
Maya and Seminole.

Most significant were the creation of a single processing laboratory for
archeological and ethnological materials, and the institution of im-
proved procedures for handling incoming collections and the constant
outgo of materials for loans, identifications, and study by visitors.
Management of the six Museum aides, technicians, and specialists
engaged in this work is a responsibility of Clifford Evans.

A. Joseph Andrews continued his repair, restoration, and casting
work with the limited facilities thus far available for the conservation
laboratory. Among the items handled were two elaborately painted
wooden doors from India; a marimba from Guatemala; pottery from
China, Egypt, Libya, Brazil, and the Pima, Acoma, and Zuni Indians;
and a Sioux tobacco pipe.

The illustrating staff, consisting of Edward G. Schumacher, aided
part-time by G. Robert Lewis and Marcia Bakry, prepared for the
publications of the research staff a large number of scientific drawings
and maps.

VERTEBRATE ZOOLOGY

The end of the year saw all divisions of the department, except
fishes, in new quarters and the reorganization of their collection man-
agement and research facilities in process or completed.

To improve management of the fish collections, the ledger-type
catalog books were replaced by a 3- by 5-inch card file. This new
system provides complete data in the jar with each cataloged lot;
it automatically provides duplicate cards for cross-reference purposes,
and it is adaptable to automatic recorders and to data processing
systems.

Since color discrimination is important in systematic research on
birds, the problem of supplying reproducible light conditions has been
88 | SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965—-MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY

solved by the installation of banks of new Examolite fixtures over the
five permanent work surfaces in the bird range. These generate a
light spectrum very near that of natural sunlight.

INVERTEBRATE ZOOLOGY

The long-awaited move of the marine-invertebrate collections to
new quarters in the west wing was made in March and April of this
year. Its accomplishment in somewhat less than four weeks was made
possible only by the complete cooperation of all staff members, and
especially by the coordination of all aspects of the move by museum
specialist Henry B. Roberts, who devoted much of the year to the
manifold details necessary for the transfer of over 450,000 bottles of
specimens and their rearrangement in the process of transfer.

Normal curatorial activities continued, nonetheless. Marian H.
Pettibone arranged for the acquisition of the Berkeley collection of
Polychaeta, traveling to Nanimo, British Columbia, to supervise
its labelling and packing. David L. Pawson, having assessed the
requirements of the echinoderm collection, instituted an international
exchange program with 30 institutions in more than 20 countries to
broaden the scope of the collection and enhance its value as a reference
tool. And Joseph Rosewater completed an index to the uncataloged
collections of mollusks, which include over 1100 miscellaneous acces-
sions; these specimens, only generally available previously, are now
more readily accessible and may be incorporated into the general
collection more rapidly.

ENTOMOLOGY

Under grants from the National Science Foundation more than 10,000
water beetles and 14,133 specimens of Ataenius have been prepared for
critical study. The transfer of Hemiptera collections into the unit
tray system was completed this year. Carl J. Drake continued to
improve the Drake collection so that now the combined Museum and
Drake material contain more than 80 percent (1491) of the 1820 species
of the family Tingidae (lacebugs). Research associate Carl F. W.
Muesebeck and members of the Department of Agriculture staff have
added to the collection of Hymenoptera large deposits of specimens
from biological studies. Approximately 20,000 newly acquired
specimens of Lepidoptera were prepared and sorted by Mrs. Joan
M. Ledbetter, and approximately 2500 North American chrysaugine
moths were consolidated and reorganized by summer intern E. D.
Cashatt. The New World Glyphipterygidae were reclassified and
THE COLLECTIONS—-CARE AND CONSERVATION 89

properly arranged as was much of the large collection of Brassolidae.
Approximately 3000 newly acquired Microlepidoptera were prepared
for critical examination.

An important achievement concerns the enormous F. C. Bishopp col-
lection of ticks, of which, when it was received, practically all of the
specimens were dried out. During the past year Mrs. Sophie G.
Lutterlough restored 35,000 specimens by treating them with trisodium-
phosphate solution and then reintroducing them into alcohol. The
gradual introduction of trisodium-phosphate solution into the vials of
dried specimens by means of a large syringe avoids disturbing the
specimens and thus prevents damage. Ralph E. Crabill and Mrs.
Lutterlough have restored, relabeled, and rehoused 3000 myriapods
and arachnids, among which 40 unsuspected type specimens were
found. In addition, 1118 microscope slides were cleaned and sorted,
and 14,600 specimens from the Hopkins collection were treated.

PALEOBIOLOGY

Because of increased need for space, the division of paleobotany
was assigned to new quarters in the recently completed west wing of
the Natural History Museum. For the first time, the entire paleobo-
tanical collections of the Museum and those of the U.S. Geological
Survey housed in the Museum are located in a single area. The collec-
tions are arranged in order of stratigraphic occurrence and further
arranged alphabetically by State under each age category. Foreign
collections are maintained as a separate unit categorized first by strati-
graphic occurrence and then alphabetically by country. The type
collections are housed separately. The work of segregating specimens
and preparing a type-specimen catalog by museum specialist James P.
Ferrigno has been interrupted by the move.

Museum specialist Louis R. Purnell completed a card file of type
specimens in the Paleozoic ammonite collection of invertebrate paleon-
tology. Three major-type collections have now been fully curated and
manuscript lists prepared for the publication of a series of catalogs of
type specimens which will supersede the 1905 catalog in part.

Research associate Remington Kellogg undertook a major reorgani-
zation of the extensive study collections of fossil marine mammals.
This involved identification and the completing or furnishing of catalog
data. The segments of the national collection of fossil fish, involving
the scales, otoliths, agnathans, acanthodians, and placoderms were
trimmed, cleaned, completely reorganized in storage, and their docu-
mentation revised by David H. Dunkle with the aid of summer intern
James McKenney.
90 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965—-MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY

GIFTS AND ADDITIONS

SPECIMENS IN THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS MAY 31, 1965

DEPARTMENT OF ANTHROPOLOGY ..... 1s dipioyie yep ance Ee eee 1, 000, 010
PAT CHE OLO RY, 1 co ot ca sof foe Bue oie list eum cag 773, 562
Ethnology .. . anor Oe AE Cheol wots 188, 645
Physical Aathropology hited Nernst as ab thee tee Pires 37, 803
DEPARTMENT OF INVERTEBRATE ZOOLOGY. ........ .. . 411,962,150
Marine: Invertebrates saree eae eciaritcn orem memes 2.113365
Molltsks 2250) SYS ROR, Bette ey ee ONES oO ORB 4A SN Om
DEPARTMENT OF VERTEBRATE ZOOLOGY .......... nt 219355396
Mammals **\0 456 ote Pie ® OR aD, ear 825; 746
(Bindsren. (Hr PME OY ePOREN Weal ocho} Gy SPN 6 514, 209
Reptiles and Aranbibiare aieiestpe: Zhe! cleasetouns 161, 564
IB ishes! state heen. ict Taeibe V ecege! ShaNa aby A uaibeide Galil 1, 7915877
DEPARTMENT OF ENTOMOLOGY .. . ye) hs free) S regrenteae . 16, 489, 253
(Former Division of Insects total, 1963 Seok. cee 159 78ers)
@oleopterayw gery ave ss AS CAA ay ene 134, 085
Hemiptera 25/00) Ac. mu MA 132, 880
Lepidoptera. . PD Tote Mea ata oe 121, 595
Myriapoda and atae i [Bak iets) af eter ecamieay Gaeta te 23, 238
INeuropteroids ished; \eeras hy seeek, BAe Stead sees 98, 942
DEPARTMENT OF BOTANY apn eule wee ey Semen ee eee aa ; 3, 118, 587
Phanerogams) en es ian aut Matin Aeteindc ee Mi fy. ol 963, 362
Rernsia dt, Kae pita & Ee DIG OOd Pee S119 Paes 2372 Vit
Grasses a) AA reaibyie, Sager ee fet fob 387, 269
Crypto mains iaeasc nA tlie ace Wen Es el he pic lal Sh 486, 881
Blane AN Atomiyiis ac dies dea la bth bok couse io) asus 43, 898
DEPARTMENT OF PALE OBIOLOGY) s:\}tac) aelisl syasfe hyyee «macy eel Oo alo:
Invertebrate Paleontology; oo... «hice cen, Mon deamon
Vertebrate Paleontology sins pint htc ty at hed 48,055
Paleobotanyy train cs ie enim oi ed ete 2, 914
DEPARTMENT OF MINERAL SCIENCES . .. 1... . 1 ss ee 422, 541
Mineralogy Sc "Petralogy te 20 ee lores hana 417, 212
INTEC ORILESE es etn Re ee re: eR en Ta Ne 5, 329
Tora Naturau History COLLECTIONS .......... 48, 965, 103
ANTHROPOLOGY

To the physical-anthropology collections were added a series of 24
skeletons from Buena Vista, Ecuador, excavated by Emilio Estrada.

In connection with the preparation of new African ethnological
exhibits, a collection of 69 items from Libya and a collection of ten
specimens from Zambia were secured.
THE COLLECTIONS—GIFTS AND ADDITIONS 91

Among the outstanding ethnological Asian materials received and
accessioned are the Tokyo National Museum collection, with 54 speci-
mens including rural tools and basketry; the Government of the Ryukyu
Islands collection, with 71 items emphasizing the wide range existing in
traditional textile production; the Beue Tann collection, with 49
objects related to Chinese calligraphy; 16 exceptional examples of
Japanese folk art, from Mr. and Mrs. Victor Hauge; 23 Nepalese
carvings, from Paul Rose; and 37 Jewish ritual objects made by well-
known Israeli craftsmen, from Dr. and Mrs. Abraham Kanof.

The large series of Paleo-Indian artifacts from the Lindenmeier Site
in Colorado, excavated by Frank H. H. Roberts, Jr., from 1935 through
1940, was the most important archeological material accessioned. In
addition, a large collection of potsherds was received from the Uni-
versity of Tokyo Andes Expedition, through the courtesy of its director,
Professor Seiichi Izumi; type specimens are included for the entire
range of formative period materials from the site of Kotosh in the
Department of Huanuco, Peru. Archeological accessions included a
large collection from the Brooks Range, Alaska, covering the time span
from the earlier human occupations to the modern Eskimo, excavated
by research associate John M. Campbell. An important collection
from the Hostermann Site in South Dakota was also received by trans-
fer from the River Basin Surveys.

VERTEBRATE ZOOLOGY

Fishes totaling about 15,000 specimens were received from three
critical geographic areas: Victor G. Springer collected nearly 10,000
specimens of the inshore marine fish fauna of Dominica during October
and November 1964 as a participant of the Bredin-Archbold-Smith-
sonian biological survey of Dominica. These will be especially useful in
monographic studies of western Atlantic fishes, for no comparable
collections have been made in this area. Several thousand well-
preserved fishes from islands of Oceania were received from the Smith-
sonian Institution Pacific Ocean Biological Survey Program. Rich in
representative species of the tropical, inshore reef habitat, they fill
many geographic gaps from which few or no specimens are in the
national collections.

From the exploratory fisheries research activities of the U.S. Fish
and Wildlife Service, several thousand specimens of pelagic and deep
sea fishes were received. Taken mainly from the Caribbean area, these
represent some of the best scientific collections ever obtained in the
region. Collections in the Western Atlantic, resulting from the Fish
92 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965—-MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY

and Wildlife Service Exploratory Program, have contributed impor-
tantly to the great success of the Sears Foundation for Marine Research
monographic studies of the fishes of the western North Atlantic.

Three major collections from the New World tropics came as gifts to
the collection of reptiles and amphibians from Wilmot A. Thornton,
Albert Schwartz, and C. J. Marinkelle. An important collection of
amphibians from East Africa was given by Margaret Stewart. And 587
specimens of reptiles and amphibians were collected in Iran for the
Museum by Robert G. Tuck and John Neal of the division of mammals.

Birds accessioned this year include important new material from
little-known regions. The first major collection in the United States of
specimens from Socotra and Abd-el-Kuri in the northern Indian
Ocean was obtained by an expedition carried out by Alex Forbes-
Watson. An important collection of oceanic birds from islands in the
Central Pacific, obtained by the Smithsonian Pacific Ocean Biological
Survey Program, documents many new distribution and nesting
records. Some of the islands visited during the field work had never
before been surveyed for birds. Three collections of Latin American
birds totaling over 2000 skins and almost. 400 anatomical specimens
were accessioned during the year. These include specimens collected
in Dominica by Richard L. Zusi, in Brazil by Philip S. Humphrey, and
in Panama by Alexander Wetmore, whose years of field work there have
brought the Museum an unparalleled collection of Panamanian birds.
By transfer from the Fish and Wildlife Service 1033 skins and 111
skeletons of North American birds were received.

In 1965 over 8000 specimens of mammals were accessioned. The
largest increment came from Africa and the Middle East through the
efforts of Henry W. Setzer. Particularly noteworthy were 5700
mammals from South Africa, Mozambique, and Iran, collected on
grants from the Department of the Army; 1228 mammals from Pakistan
collected by Robert Traub and the Department of Microbiology,
University of Maryland; and a superb collection of 542 bats from
Kenya, presented by Russel E. Mumford.

A number of important accessions were of mammals from tropical
America: 185 bats from northeastern Brazil, collected by Philip S.
Humphrey and R. E. Shope; 185 mammals from the interior of
British Guiana, obtained from Stanley E. Brock; Colombian bats from
José Borrero and C. J. Marinkelle; 436 Panamanian mammals,
mostly from Isla Cébaco, collected by E. L. Tyson on a National
Science Foundation grant; and 218 Nicaraguan mammals from the
University of Pennsylvania, through L. G. Clark.
THE COLLECTIONS—GIFTS AND ADDITIONS 93

A number of individual specimens of unusual interest was received:
a skull and complete skeleton of the rare Pacific right whale from the
Whales Research Institute, Tokyo, through the generosity of its
Director, Hideo Omura; a frozen specimen of the rare Ross seal from
the National Science Foundation, Office of Antarctic Programs; a
frozen head of a pigmy sperm whale from Marineland Research
Laboratory; and a skull of the rare rough-toothed porpoise Steno breda-
nensis, from the University of Florida. The trend toward deposit of
types in the National Museum continues; holotypes of the new sub-
species of mink Mustela vision and of the bat Chiroderma salvini were
contributed by the Alaska Department of Game and Fish and the
University of Arizona, respectively.

INVERTEBRATE ZOOLOGY

Perhaps the largest and most significant addition to the invertebrate
zoology collections this year was the more than 10,000 specimens of
Polychaeta collected by Edith and Cyril Berkeley of the Pacific Bio-
logical Laboratory at Nanaimo, British Columbia. This collection
represents the accumulation of over 40 years of work, most of it having
been the subject of study and scientific publication by this team. The
significance and content of the collection have been described by
Marian H. Pettibone in a paper soon to be published. The deposition
in the Museum of an important collection such as this assures its per-
manent availability to students.

By exchange, 212 specimens of isopods were obtained from the
Zoological Institute, Leningrad, U.S.S.R.; and 500 specimens of mol-
lusks, from Tonga and the subantarctic islands of New Zealand, were
obtained from the Dominion Museum, Wellington, New Zealand.
Purchased through the Chamberlain fund were 3290 marine shells
from North Borneo, collected by Mrs. Mary Saul, and 610 from Muscat,
Oman, by Donald T. Bosch.

Colleagues in other institutions and universities often deposit their
study collections in the national collections when their researches are
complete. In this manner 2354 specimens of copepods collected by
Arthur Humes of Boston University were donated to the Museum.
They were obtained during Humes’ researches at Nosy Bé, Malagasy
Republic, as a part of the Indian Ocean Expedition.

ENTOMOLOGY

The largest, and perhaps most outstanding, contribution made to
the entomological collections this year, that obtained in the western
94 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965—-MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY

Mexican states by Paul Spangler and his family, consisted of 50,850
specimens, of which 32,000 were water beetles. Spangler also donated
7000 specimens from his personal collection. J. F. Gates Clarke and
his wife contributed 11,674 specimens from the remote island of Rapa,
obtained with the aid of a grant from the Office of Naval Research, and
2622 specimens from Arkansas. Ronald W. Hodges presented 3000
Coleoptera through the U.S. Department of Agriculture. Oliver S.
Flint contributed 2062 beetles from the West Indies, and 2000 beetles
of the subfamily Aphodiinae were obtained from Argentina.

To the Hemiptera collections were added 5000 specimens from George
F. Knowlton, 1169 specimens from George E. Bohart, and 651 speci-
mens from Oliver S. Flint, Jr. To the Lepidoptera collections were
added a notable number of small but important contributions, con-
spicuous among which were the more than 3900 specimens collected
in the Malagasy Republic by E. D. Cashatt and K. I. Lange; 791
butterflies from Greece collected by J. G. Coutsis; 1300 New Zealand
moths contributed by T. H. Davies;,632 Hydrelia flies from D. L. Donier
and J. L. Laffoon; 5000 specimens collected in Florida by Ronald W.
Hodges; 495 European flies from D. L. Knutson; 890 Alaskan flies
from K. M. Sommerman; and 2336 flies collected by George C.
Steyskal, primarily in Egypt and North America.

Donald R. Davis contributed over 5000 specimens from Arizona and
New Mexico; W. Donald Duckworth and his wife obtained 10,125
moths and flies from Panama; Oliver S. Flint, Jr., contributed 1887
Lepidoptera and Diptera from the West Indies and the United States;
and Waldo L. Schmitt presented 458 flies collected by him in Antarctica
and New Zealand.

Particularly important additions to the collection of biting and sucking
lice were made by K. C. Emerson who deposited 1160 slides, including
33 holotypes, of these insects. In addition, he was responsible for the
transfer of 919 slides of these important ectoparasites from the Depart-
ment of the Army. Ralph E. Crabill, Jr., presented 402 European
myriapods, almost all the species of which were previously unrepre-
sented in the collections. Yu Hsi Moltze Wang presented 107 identi-
fied Formosan myriapods, none previously represented in the col-
lections. Waldo L. Schmitt presented 2383 mites from New Zealand
and Antarctica, noteworthy because of the paucity of material in the
collections from this part of the world.

BOTANY

Noteworthy among the wide diversity of botanical research materials
from various areas of the globe added to the collections was a group
THE COLLECTIONS—GIFTS AND ADDITIONS 95

of 1330 herbarium specimens of flowering plants received by exchange
through the Botanical Institute of the Academy of Sciences of the
U.S.S.R. A group of 1250 microscope slides of cleared strobili of
Selaginella was received as a gift from Northwestern University. These
slides document published research of Howard J. Arnott and Harry T.
Horner, based largely on collections in the National Herbarium, on the
disposition of mega- and microspores in this genus. The historically
valuable diatom collection of M. L. Walsh, received as a gift from Mrs.
Walsh of Baltimore, included 920 microscope slides, 350 samples of
diatomaceous earth, and 385 bottles of liquid-preserved diatom-
bearing materials. These represent careful collections from almost
all the known diatom deposits in southern Maryland, many of which
have now been exhausted or otherwise obliterated. Conrad V.
Morton added 2595 photographs of fern types prepared in European
herbaria. A collection of 150 ferns constituting three series of ‘‘Filices
Japonicae Exsiccatae,” prepared by M. Tagawa and K. Iwatsuki, was
accessioned. ‘These specimens contain isotypes of several new fern
species. Two collections of African grasses were added to the grass
herbarium: 385 specimens of Digitaria gathered by A. J. Oakes in West
Africa, and a miscellaneous assortment from R. R. Martenson, a mis-
sionary in Northern Cameroun. A large set of Mexican grasses was
accessioned through A. Robinson of Kansas Wesleyan University, who
identified them during a visit to the National Herbarium. Three
groups of wood specimens were accessioned from Southeast Asia: a
small but rare set from Cambodia, received on exchange from the
French Centre Technique Forestier Tropical; 120 specimens from
Thailand, donated by Robert M. King; and 220 woods from the
Philippines, from William L. Stern. The latter two accessions com-
prise excellent research materials, since the identifications of all speci-
mens are corroborated by herbarium vouchers. Other important
accessions included 330 specimens of European mosses received on
exchange from the University of Helsinki and 635 lichen specimens
from southeastern United States, collected by Mason E. Hale, Jr.

PALEOBIOLOGY

Among the specimens accessioned by the division of paleobotany,
those of major importance include the 142 type or figured specimens
received as gifts, of which a few examples are: the Goucher collection
of cycadeoid trunk sections, representing the finest collection of de-
scribed specimens from the Lower Cretaceous of Maryland, from
Goucher College; the earliest described specimen of an American
cycadeoid, from Johns Hopkins University; and, among the microfossils,
96 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965—-MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY

12 holotypes of Maestrichtian and Danian calcareous nannoplankton
from Alabama, Arkansas, France, and Denmark, from M. N. Bramlette
and E. Martini. From the Walcott fund was purchased 1000 pounds
of selected Rhynie chert. This quantity of material constitutes the
largest single collection in the United States of this classic Middle
Devonian plant-bearing material. From the Roland W. Brown fund
was purchased an excellent exhibit specimen of the Lower Cretaceous
cycadeoid Cycadeoidea marylandica, found near Laurel, Md. Also pur-
chased was a collection of fossil plants from the Eocene of Bolca, Italy.
Exchange with the Paleobotaniska Avdelning, Naturhistoriska Riks-
museets in Stockholm, Sweden, brought in 89 specimens of Chinese
Permo-Carboniferous plants and 44 Swedish Rhaeto-Liassic plants.

A collection of amphibians and therapsid reptiles from the Permo-
Triassic of the Karoo region in South Africa, outstanding in being
probably the best documented Beaufort collection to date, was made
by Nicholas Hotton under a grant from the National Science Founda-
tion and with the help of J. W. Kitching of the Bernard Price Institute
in Johannesburg. It includes about 312 specimens consisting of skulls,
partial and complete skeletons, and identifiable fragments, and is
particularly strong in the herbivorous anomodonts. A collection of
about 550 specimens of early mammals was made by GC. L. Gazin,
assisted by Franklin L. Pearce, under a grant from the National Science
Foundation. The greater part, about 320 specimens, consisted of jaws
and maxillae of a variety of rare Paleocene mammals from Puerco and
Torrejon horizons of the Nacimiento formation in New Mexico. The
remaining portion of the collection was obtained principally from the
Lysite early Eocene and Chadronian Oligocene of the Wind River
Basin, Wyo., greatly increasing our representation of the smaller
mammals of these horizons.

David H. Dunkle, assisted by Gladwyn B. Sullivan, during the latter
part of the summer season made a collection of about 115 specimens
of vertebrate and invertebrate animals under support from the Walcott
fund. Of these specimens, 81 were fossil fish secured from a clay pit
in the upper Madera formation near Tijeras, N. Mex. Particular
mention may be made of unusually complete skeletons of acanthodian
and a variety of palaeoniscoid fishes, as well as the fragmentary remains
of several sharks and a caelacanthine.

An outstanding addition to the invertebrate-paleontology collections
was made possible by the Walcott fund: during the winter of 1963-64,
Richard E. Grant, of the U.S. Geological Survey, accompanied by
Ali N. Fatmi, of the Geological Survey of Pakistan, made an extensive
collection of Permian fossils from the Productus Limestone of the Salt,
Khisor, and Surghar Ranges of West Pakistan; these consist of an
Specimens of the feather-duster worm Sabellastarte magnifica photographed
alive in Puerto Rico. ‘This photograph, in color, is being used by modelmaker
Alfred Strohlein seen (below, left) discussing with Curator Charles Cutress
the early stages of a model for exhibition.

Line of visitors waiting to see exhibit of the Dead Sea Scrolls of Jordan in the
foyer gallery of the Museum of Natural History. Such lines were common,
and during the 22 days the Scrolls were on display over 200,000 persons
were recorded entering the gallery.
THE COLLECTIONS—GIFTS AND ADDITIONS 97

estimated 35,000 specimens and an additional undetermined number
that will be freed from limestone blocks by dissolution in hydrochloric
acid. This collection, which is to be shared by the Geological Survey
of Pakistan, will provide a basis for direct comparison of American
Permian specimens with those from the best known Permian sequence
in Asia, since the Productus Limestone of the Salt Range is a standard
for reference and correlation of Permian rocks of all parts of the world,
and its fauna must be considered in connection with Permian studies
everywhere. The Pakistan collection, a valuable addition to the
national collections under any circumstances, is especially valuable
in view of the extensive program of Permian studies now under way.

The Walcott fund also supported field work which resulted in several
other important additions to the collections, each of several thousand
specimens. These include Devonian invertebrates from southern
New Mexico, collected by G. Arthur Cooper and J. T. Dutro; Ordo-
vician Bryozoa from measured sections and type localities in north-
eastern New York, by Richard S. Boardman and Olgerts Karklins;
and invertebrates from the Middle Ordovician at Paquette Rapids,
Ont., by Ellis Yochelson.

MINERAL SCIENCES

To the collections were added 11 meteorites not previously repre-
sented, as well as 2066 grams of tektites received from the Ames
Research Center of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.

A major effort is being made to acquire for the petrographic reference
collections specimens of rocks that have been described and chemically
analyzed. About 100 such rocks were acquired during the year, most
of them by transfer from the U.S. Geological Survey.

Of the many important additions to the mineralogy collections,
three were of outstanding importance: Harry Winston, Inc., presented
to the Smithsonian in memory of Sir Ernest Oppenheimer, former
Chairman of the Board of De Beers Consolidated Mines, Ltd., a
magnificent gem-quality diamond crystal weighing 253.7 carats,
from the Dutoitspan Mine, Republic of South Africa; John B. Jago
of San Francisco donated his collection of minerals, numbering nearly
4000 specimens and generally considered to be the finest contemporary
private collection in the United States; and Mr. and Mrs. Lennart
Erickson of Palo Alto, Calif., donated three outstanding gems: a 117-
carat emerald cabochon brooch, a 126-carat aquamarine, and a 50.5-
carat rubellite tourmaline.

789-427—_66——_14
Exhibits

ANTHROPOLOGY

An exhibit of Dead Sea Scrolls from Jordan was shown in the foyer
gallery of the Museum of Natural History from February 27 through
March 21. Negotiations for loan of the specimens and accompanying
photographs, conducted by Gus W. Van Beek and the Department of
State, had been in progress since 1960 with the Government of Jor-
dan, which generously loaned the material for the Smithsonian ex-
hibit. One of the most popular ever presented in the Museum,
the exhibit was kept open Friday, Saturday, and Sunday evenings;
and during its 22 days 209,643 persons were recorded as visiting it.
The exhibition provided a synopsis of the story of the Dead Sea Scrolls
in four sections: first, the discovery; second, the Essenes, the people
of the Scrolls, and their community; third, the Scrolls themselves and
their significance for historical and religious studies; and fourth, the
techniques of Scroll research and publication. Van Beek was assisted
in preparation of the exhibit by a number of internationally known
scholars and by Rolland O. Hower, of the Smithsonian’s exhibit
staff, who was chief designer. The imaginative and effective arrange-
ment, created for temporary traveling display, will eventually ac-
company the material back to Jordan, where it will become part of the
permanent Palestine archeological exhibits. The material was sched-
uled for display in Philadelphia, Berkeley, Claremont, Omaha, and
Baltimore, and will then go to Canada and England before its return
to Jordan. This exhibit is an outstanding example of how much
can be done to associate the meaning and significance of a group of
objects with the objects themselves, stressing ideas in the exhibit
rather than merely presenting specimens.

Substantial progress was made in the African hall, in the hall of
physical anthropology, and in the hall of Old World archeology.
In the preparation of African materials, it was fortunately possible
to undertake extensive restoration, cleaning, and repair of important
specimens—some of them old and unique. A special crew, under
contract, in the course of the year treated 288 separate items, of which
the largest number were spears and swords and among the most
important were wood carvings and masks, some of them among the
oldest surviving from parts of Africa. They similarly treated over 100
specimens for exhibit in the hall of Old World archeology.

A significant achievement was made by the plastics laboratory of the
Office of Exhibits in the making of new casts of important works of

98
EXHIBITS 99

sculpture. Previously such casts have been made of plaster, and re-
sulted in heavy, fragile specimens requiring considerable maintenance,
including frequent repainting. Under the supervision of John C.
Widener, old plaster casts are now being replaced with casts made of
plastic. This involves cleaning and repairing the plaster cast, making
a rubber mold of it, and then casting a reinforced, colored plastic
duplicate. These new duplicates are light in weight, strong, and resis-
tant to damage; they have the color built in and can be maintained
by an occasional washing with detergent and water. A number of
monochrome plastic casts have been made of reliefs from Zinjirli,
Persepolis, and Nineveh. Much more ambitious was the copying in
plastic of a large Egyptian red-granite lion, utilizing techniques devel-
oped by Walter G. Sorrell. Using a fragment of Egyptian red granite
as a guide, he made thin sheets of plastic reproducing the colors of the
different crystals in the granite. These sheets were then broken into
chips of various sizes, distributed over the surface of the mold, and a
pink plastic matrix poured over them. The result is a magnificent
cast which so nearly approximates the original stone that a fragment of
the red granite placed against the plastic cast becomes lost in its back-
ground. These techniques hold considerable promise for newer
museums that are no longer able to acquire original sculptures from
abroad.

Work continued on the preparation and installation of the remaining
few exhibits in the Asian hall, and collections already in the Museum
were augmented with eight contemporary objects donated by Dr. and
Mrs. Abram Kanof through the Jewish Museum in New York, and
three specimens given by the Embassy of Israel.

Installation of the Hall of Physical Anthropology approached its
final stages with sections on man as a primate, on human biological
variation, on pathology, and on the populations of the world, being
produced. The section of exhibits on fossil man and a panel on mech-
anisms of evolution are the only portions remaining for future prepara-
tion. The world map showing body-build silhouettes of various popu-
lations and accurate face masks of individuals from all parts of the world,
has turned out to be particularly impressive and informative.

On May 25, 1965, fire caused by a faulty electrical circuit gutted
two cases in the Indian hall, one exhibiting Zuni and Hopi kachina
figures, some of them collected as early as 1870 by such early explorers
and scholars as Burke, Powell, Wheeler, Palmer, Cushing, and Steven-
son, and the other, objects from the Spanish Mission period of the
southwestern United States, illustrating the transition from Indian
religious concepts to Catholicism. Nearly all of the objects in these
100 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965—-MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY

two exhibits were a total loss, although a few of the kachina figures can
still be used for scientific study though not for exhibition. An ad-
joining case illustrating the life of the Cocopa Indians was somewhat
damaged by water and flames, but all of the material was saved.

VERTEBRATE ZOOLOGY

A model of a giant-sized black marlin, Makaira indica, captured by
the donor, Alfred C. Glassell, Jr., provided a spectacular addition
to the hall of life in the sea. ‘The marlin, a world record for rod and reel,
was captured off Cabo Blanco, Peru, and measured 14}, feet in length
and weighed 1560 pounds.

Members of the curatorial staff participated in the planning and de-
sign of the hall of osteology, which opened during the year, and the
hall of cold-blooded vertebrates. ‘The latter is in process of construc-
tion, and considerable progress has been made in obtaining material
for the topical and habitat cases.

The freeze-dry method of preserving reptiles continues to be highly
satisfactory and efficient. Freeze-drying of amphibians often brings a
whitish wax to the surface, which is easily painted out by a thin coat of
oil paint.

On the basis of his experience in Chile and Antarctica last year,
George E. Watson provided scripts for three cases in the temporary
exhibition “Image of Chile,” on display in fall of 1964.

INVERTEBRATE ZOOLOGY

Work on the hall of life in the sea progressed slowly throughout the
year, with no additional exhibits opened. For alcove cases depicting
reproduction and parental care, many models have been completed
and work on others begun under the direction of Charles E. Cutress,
Thomas E. Bowman, and David L. Pawson. In these exhibits an
attempt is being made to show, by enlarged models, some of the many
fascinating ways and devices by which marine invertebrates repro-
duce their kind and provide protection for their eggs and young.
Methods of reproduction, ranging from simple asexual splitting to the
complex courtship behavior associated with sexual reproduction in a
fiddler crab, and examples displaying parental care have been selected
from as wide a range of animals as possible, so that these cases will also
serve to illustrate the great diversity of form and structure in inverte-
brate animals.

With the assistance of summer intern Durbin Dixon, coral specimens
were produced for inclusion in the coral-reef life group, but significant
EXHIBITS 101

progress on this exhibit awaits construction of viewing ports and
supporting steel work.

Accompanied by Kjell B. Sandved, Cutress collected selected in-
vertebrates and took over 1200 color photographs of living animals in
Puerto Rico during August and September 1964. These, together
with detailed notes, will form the basis for the construction of the models
required for adequate representation of many of the minute and deli-
cate invertebrate forms. Among the many specimens photographed
was the large Caribbean feather-duster worm Sabellastarte magnifica,
selected to represent a polychaete annelid and a particular feeding
mechanism. A model maker will construct with plastics and waxes an
enlarged representation of this organism, working from the preserved
specimens, notes, and photographs. Cutress continued to supervise
the construction of models, for which data were obtained during a
similar trip to the Hawaiian Islands in the previous year.

PALEOBIOLOGY

Clayton E. Ray was heavily occupied in developing plans for the
hall of Quaternary vertebrates in collaboration with designer Lucius
E. Lomax, of the Office of Exhibits. The laboratory of vertebrate
paleontology made progress in mounting skeletons for exhibition in
this hall of a Rancho La Brea group that includes the sabre-tooth cat
Smilodon californicus, the ground sloth Paramylodon harlani, and the horse
Equus occidentalis. Restoration has been completed preparatory to
mounting the 4-horned antelope Stockoceros onusrosagrus from the
Pleistocene of Arizona, received in an exchange from the Frick Lab-
oratories at the American Museum in New York. Much progress also
has been made in restoring the two giant ground sloths Eremotherium
rusconit, secured by C. Lewis Gazin from the Pleistocene of Panama,
which are to serve as the central display in the hall.

MINERAL SCIENCES

Construction was completed for new physical geology, meteorite,
and jade exhibits, and for a major enlargement and revision of the
gem exhibit. Paul E. Desautels wrote scripts for all the gem exhibit
cases, the design was completed by Mrs. Dorothy Guthrie, and rein-
stallation begun. When the gem exhibit was closed for revision in
January 1965, a temporary exhibit was set up in the adjacent mineral
hall. Edward P. Henderson and William G. Melson began writing
scripts for the meteorite and physical geology exhibits, and the design
and production of these will be started as soon as the gem and jade
rooms are completed and reopened to the public in summer 1965,
 eipbert edtto avlioy nexooodtheied achiun nos Lp

dows is hit itod | okies eral ae nie it ogee

aspen peice Peathedoen 4 if PEO 3 Ls ‘Nophy tes OPUS Adee hd

a eaimiegaig Doce fon ae SOLS ONE ia r

ow” Poin - bai « % ive sit ont ES

splptaniees eaten: nga weer. wh on.

1z Ke Ye aet s9) i's: i Pi h mens ants rye Ay tae aa $ 7. 4

x

bet aie: asian ae ENON] dH ces were ara
Hat ek) OATES bay Fhe ees alas,
“fi nbaskonive Sbensatic gesreis,. O chav bited names sph pikes ;
ey abit ave | aabril: Voninetit sircamcdpenoie Cita i dann i
svenedt 0 PR) 7 a qogiiatese brs pita adhubls a

Sis bas orucits ods to. nasen ip Hen Alans ony pies: OT
; é As carey
badaumatens COGS BOS. ecg “ori eo hos
nittesh nlite) wus: hilo etend plier a) tee
ug iam heey satis ky Artiesonne acoxa leat sie Isto
berrinaome oct Thine amide coneiceso ei) le (ne
S Pea ie.

if

meee sith BySast fete Sie sly nate FA Gonna
stepmiausbrnnaigesile ct ebyy vii hose toraein

Ai) hoaheik saa Seta ee ORI

waa
’ ; Ge ra eat Uta
atlas a ere qe) 3 a PY yu ee yn ivesd Uaioe 23
Tongisob cite. chiteracaiog tr EpTASIIOY

io oe

ssheeged Srv to re and innit’ TAK mod

. ; ;
fit Gl Nidides x t-enoisisds yotoasts at BIRO UG

tea ours Mina Wh pba ist MYO. sod sf Ons

oes Sil} Bre hotvnit “pabaleyeast Hole t Davo, opp Rs:
i

Say eh TCA HORS maya Cae ‘onpolayscas boarodlt Je

“edged alot ot coat cpaedtiany Ady ‘cit’ ho iasan Nada

Cali, pagTROn Te Ea. ak own eet on se agree)

WAGE Ps,
Rrrnenttrsatst “aro hinwiny Herts Owe sg pga rt

iiss Sf to ands ataety ody mr chet) iw 0) es

slynih ESO, nal 28
i a Sain

y

‘dupe | ae eR CUE sR A an

mn

eds oe ay Bowens ‘eee Eh Ase ee

we Ue PAS Te Hh aM us

sidan od tes: mae catia
econ bag. poser Sst
Museum of History and Technology

oe
, <
5 Pied T
4 nel
, ~ 4 ‘Mi
i j = 2
me ; i t i
i
t A Live
! he " hg ale f r
= ‘ - eae = ‘
i Ay
:
A Aa <2
t =
- ’ thle Ee
“ i
4 e ;

+ \ : r : >
“tet 7 Pb
oe
; wee
re L
TS GI
;
y= " A
5
: We
~ \
+
ry y re j

’

 weoloaiiie

,

i bot |
Mrs. Lyndon Johnson during inspection of plans for Music on the Mall at the
Museum of History and Technology. Secretary Ripley, left, is showing her a
bass ophecliede from the collection of musical instruments. Below: Part of
audience of over three thousand at concert of band music of the 1860s,
played on restored Civil War-period instruments (see p. 109).

Specially constructed device used for
taking off exact measurements of
hulls of sunken ships. Here it is
being used to measure tmbers on a
ship believed to be late 16th-century
Spanish, sunk off Bermuda. (See
pp. 105-107.)

Museum of History and Technology

Joun C. Ewers, Director

The Museum Historian as Scholar

The academic historian relies upon the printed page and the written
document for his primary source materials in reconstructing and
interpreting history. The resourceful museum historian, however, is
not limited to verbal sources. He knows that history is written in
objects as well as in words. He seeks to recover the sights and sounds
as well as the descriptions of history. In field and laboratory he
seeks to employ the tools and methods of modern technology to obtain
a more precise understanding of how people lived in the past. He is
limited only by his ingenuity in making the most effective uses of
these resources.

The current research program of professional historians at the
Museum of History and Technology provides numerous examples of
this broader, more ingenious approach to history. I cite only a few
examples.

Buried treasure—whether it is in the ground or under the sea—
has excited the curiosity of generations of Americans. In recent years
the technical perfection of light diving gear has made undersea treas-
ure hunting an increasingly popular pursuit. But under the leadership
of Mendel L. Peterson, chairman of the Museum’s department of
armed forces history, underwater exploration in the Western Hemi-
sphere has evolved from mere treasure hunting into systematic under-
water archeology. In solving historical problems it combines with
field exploration of underwater sites the study of written records of
shipping and shipwrecks, and of the manufacture and uses of artifacts.
It results in the recovery, preservation, and identification of dated
artifacts which help to document the progress of the introduction of
European culture into the New World, routes and cargoes in colonial
trade, and the development of ships, and of their armament and other
equipment.

At underwater sites off Bermuda this year Peterson has conducted
research in the techniques of surveying, measuring, and recording
undersea remains. ‘Three new instruments for measuring in plan and
elevation were used in exploring the timber remains of a ship believed

789-427—66——16 105
106 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965

se CRN aR]
Sse ———— ee
a 111/01.
ROS il: a
ETT
Joost SE

i be ETM:

RAR RUrn anaes

Half plan and elevations of timber remains, measured by the method described
on the opposite page. Shape of the keel is conjectural.

to be Spanish and of the late 16th century. An ingenious camera
stand for photographing the remains in plan was built in the form of
a brass tower adjustable in height. Carrying a 35-mm. camera at
the top, the tower is set over the timber remains which have been
marked with numbered ‘“‘tacks”’ in a grid pattern. The photographs,
taken in succession as the tower is moved over the site, later are as-
sembled in a photographic mosaic which becomes a valuable guide
to the artist making the finished drawing of the remains.

Two instruments for measuring remains in elevation proved to be
very successful. The first, a simple sighting device, is settled in the
middle of the site and leveled. With this instrument, a theoretical
MUSEUM OF HISTORY AND TECHNOLOGY—INTRODUCTION 107

plane is established, and at each corner of a square encompassing the
site datum rods are then set in the sea bottom, clear of the timber
remains. With this sighting device, targets are set on the datum rods
and securely fastened. These remain in place throughout the measuring
operation.

After the theoretical plane is established, a measuring frame con-
sisting of heavy aluminum beams is placed on steel stanchions set
vertically on the keelson of the timber remains. The frame is then
secured to the stanchions at the plane established by the sighting device.
Attached to this frame is a rack in which ride—at 6-inch intervals—
measuring rods scaled in inches. Over each ship’s timber in turn,
starting at one end and progressing along the remains, the rack is set,
leveled with the beam, and anchored at the outer end. The measuring
rods are then lowered to contact the frame, and readings are taken
directly from them. In this manner the curvature of each of the ship’s
frames is established. From these data, recorded with a grease pencil
on white plastic sheets, an accurate elevation of the remains can be
drawn.

Techniques for preserving objects recovered from underwater sites
meanwhile are being perfected through research in the Museum
laboratory. These studies include the perfection of a more rapid
method for dehydrating organic materials, and the uses, for wood
specimens, of preservatives that penetrate and strengthen the specimens.

Peterson’s History Under the Sea: A handbook for underwater exploration,
published in 1965, provides the first handbook on this subject ever
printed. This pioneer text and its 56 plates cover the surveying of
underwater sites, field preparation of materials recovered from these
sites, laboratory techniques for preserving artifacts from underwater
explorations, and photographic reproductions of selected metal, glass,
and pottery specimens recovered from underwater sites and processed
in the laboratory.

Eugene Ostroff, associate curator of photography, employed modern
technology in pioneering another field of historical research. Recog-
nizing that image discoloration and fading was making old photo-
graphs in the collections useless for reference or exhibition, he investi-
gated the causes of this deterioration and explored the practicality of
restoring the image. With some of the earliest photographs made by
W. H. F. Talbot of England, who in 1839 invented the photographic
negative, he obtained strikingly successful results. Faded prints in
which the image was not visible to the eye were irradiated with neutrons
in a reactor at the Brookhaven National Laboratories. This converted
some of the image silver into radioactive isotopes. When an unexposed
sheet of x-ray film was placed in contact with the original for a short
108 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965

time, then processed, a clearly visible restored image corresponding to
the original appeared on the x-ray film.

Old photographs can be important historical documents. It is
expected that the historian of the future will be indebted to Ostroff for
his discovery of a means to recover the lost images on these faded
documents.

The use of the modern tape recorder in gaining knowledge of the
past from living informants has proved an effective method of research
in a variety of historical projects. Edwin A. Battison, associate cur-
ator of mechanical and civil engineering, obtained from the surviving
inventor, J. Frank Duryea, information on the construction of the
Duryea automobile built in 1892-93, one of the first gasoline-powered
automobiles built in the United States and the oldest in our collection.
On the basis of these interviews with the inventor it was possible to
restore missing details of the vehicle. The recorded data also pro-
vided some of the information for Donald H. Berkebile’s account of its
construction, The 7893 Duryea Automobile, published by the Smithsonian
Institution this year.

C. Malcolm Watkins, curator of cultural history, carried a tape
recorder to rural Moore County in North Carolina to record surviving
folk-pottery traditions in an area where country folk have made
red earthenware and salt-glazed pottery since before the American
Revolution. There Ben Owen charmingly recalled how his grand-
father had made pottery and described how he himself carried on
the family tradition—from the digging of the clay to the removal of the
fired pot from the kiln. Mrs. Joan Watkins supplemented the oral
account with an extensive series of color photographs of this potter’s
shop and of the stages in his making of pottery. Examples of this
pottery were obtained for the Museum collections.

In the mountains of Virginia and North Carolina last fall Jay Scott
Odell, museum specialist in the section of musical instruments, recorded
traditional folk songs of the Appalachian Highlands played on the
dulcimer and banjo, and descriptions of the making and use of these
instruments from the lips of their makers or the musically talented
descendants of makers. At the same time he photographed the playing
of a dulcimer, made about 1875, which he later obtained for the na-
tional collections. Such thorough documentation will be appreciated
by the historian of future years.

The sounds of history were sweet indeed in the series of concerts
arranged by Mrs. Cynthia Adams Hoover, associate curator of musical
instruments, during the year. The November 11, 1964, concert of
Gustav Leonhardt, harpsichordist, playing on the Museum’s restored
MUSEUM OF HISTORY AND TECHNOLOGY—INTRODUCTION 109

1754 Dulcken harpsichord, and Frans Brueggen, recorder player,
was considered one of the highlights of the Washington musical year.
At popular request, a program of the music of the 1860’s, played on
brass instruments of that period from the collections, was repeated
in an open-air concert on the Mall in June. The musical arrangements
were taken directly from bandbooks of the Third New Hampshire
Regiment of the 1860’s. These and other concerts, played upon the
kinds of instruments for which the music was written, not only delight
those in attendance but are recorded for the study of musicians and
historians.

Surely the museum historian is no less concerned with written his-
tory than is the academic historian—but he consults a greater variety
of sources. He reads history not only in letters and documents, but
also in illustrated trade catalogs, magazine and newspaper advertise-
ments, plans, drawings, paintings, prints, and photographs, and in
three-dimensional objects as well.

The museum historian has the same dedication to detailed accuracy
as does the scholar in the natural sciences. He requires the same
precision in restoring a hundred-year-old machine tool or a two-hun-
dred-year-old highboy as does the paleontologist in his restoration
of a hundred-million-year-old dinosaur.

In his field work the museum historian’s methods resemble those
successfully employed by the anthropologist, be he an archeologist
exploring a prehistoric site occupied by a little-known primitive people,
or an ethnologist obtaining from an aged American Indian informant
verbal information on tribal customs of six decades ago. Historic-
site archeology—on land and under the sea—offers the historian oppor-
tunities to recover plans of ships and of domestic, industrial, and
military structures about which little information is available in written
sources, as well as possibilities of recovering dated artifacts which will
help to document other undated ones. The oral testimony of elderly
men and women provides previously unrecorded details about inven-
tions, manufacturing and crafts processes, and the disappearance or
survival of traditional arts and crafts.

In his dealings with the objects he studies and admires, the mature
museum historian’s interests extend far beyond their aesthetic quali-
ties and beyond the tracing of technological developments per se. Like
the anthropologist, he is concerned with the broader implications of
objects—the roles they played in the cultures which produced them
and the social implications of technological change. He will continue
to employ a variety of techniques and to consult a wide range of
sources in his quest for answers to the problems of history.
Research and Publications
SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY

A number of major works by members of the department of science
and technology were published or are in press this year. Silvio A.
Bedini, in his Museum Bulletin Early American Scientific Instruments and
their Makers, brought together a wealth of facts and photographs that
has stimulated wide interest in this subject. As a result, enough new
information has been elicited to warrant a revised and enlarged edition,
on which he is working at present. Bedini also has assembled data and
illustrations documenting the scientific instrument as it appears in
American archeology. His purpose is a study of the scientific back-
ground of the exploration and early settlement of the North American
continent up to about 1700, for a book-length work completed in first
draft. The American Philosophical Society now has in press his
Mechanical Universe.

In his Museum Bulletin Bark Canoes and Skin Boats of North America,
Howard I. Chapelle brought order and meaning to the inchoate
50-year accumulation of notes and portions of manuscript left by the
senior author and authority on canoes, Edwin Tappan Adney. This
monograph, carried to completion through the generosity of the
Mariner’s Museum, which supported Chapelle in his work on the
Adney paper and his preparation of the numerous line drawings it
contains, represents a high order of cooperation in museum research,
and makes available information which otherwise might have remained
forever buried in museum archives.

Sami K. Hamarneh’s Bzbliography on Medicine and Pharmacy in Medieval
Islam was published in Stuttgart by the Internationalen Gesellschaft ftir
Geschichte der Pharmazie. And the Early Engineering Reminiscences
(1815-40) of George Escol Sellers, which Eugene S. Ferguson edited and
annotated while he was curator of engineering, appeared as a Museum
Bulletin.

Three other book-length manuscripts are in press: Robert P. Mul-
thauf, The Origin of Chemistry, Uta C. Merzbach (with Garrett Birk-
hoff), Source Book in Classical Analysis, and John H. White, Jr., The
Cincinnati Locomotive Builders. And among the total of 35 publications
listed by the staff this year were a group of historical and analytical
articles on museums of science and technology making up the December
1964 issue of Technology and Culture (vol. 6, no. 1).

A number of publications appeared as a result of research directed to
the documentation of collections. Donald H. Berkebile’s study of the
Duryea automobile exploits a series of tape-recorded interviews with

110
RESEARCH & PUBLICATIONS—SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY 111

the surviving inventor J. Frank Duryea, initiated and conducted here
in 1956 and 1957 by Edwin A. Battison. The Duryea automobile,
built in 1892-93, is the oldest in our collection and one of the first
gasoline-powered automobiles constructed in the United States.
Only through these interviews was it possible to restore missing details
of the vehicle.

White’s article on the Pioneer documents a locomotive built in 1851
by Seth Wilmarth in South Boston, Mass., and used primarily on the
Cumberland Valley Railroad in Pennsylvania. The machine was
given to the Museum in 1960 by the Pennsylvania Railroad Company.

Bedini’s study of an 18th-century astronomical clock deals with a
timepiece designed, in the words of its inventor, Father Francesco
Borghesi (1723-1802), ‘‘so that I might contemplate leisurely, both
during the day and in the night, the true face of the heavens and of the
seas unobscured by clouds, even though I had no astronomical equip-
ment.” This clock, for which the faculty of eclipse prediction was also
claimed, was presented upon its completion in 1764 to the Empress
Maria Theresa of Austria. It was acquired by the Museum in 1958.

An article by Edwin S. Battison on screw-thread cutting by the
master-screw method is based upon a study of one of the oldest extant
screw-cutting machines, signed ‘‘Manuel Wetschgi, Augspurg’”’ and
dated from the end of the 17th century or the beginning of the 18th.
The machine was received from the Yale and Towne Company in 1959.

Some other research papers published this year were inspired by
work in connection with exhibits. Chapelle’s paper on Robert Fulton’s
“Steam Battery” is one of a series of articles he has based on his design
reconstructions of historically important ships. The subject of the
article, the first steam-powered warship, was designed during the War
of 1812. The reconstruction of this historic ship is based upon plans
located by Chapelle in the Danish Royal Archives in Copenhagen.

A paper on early electromagnetic instruments was published in
connection with the design of the exhibits in electricity by Museum
consultant Robert Chipman. ‘The problem which inspired this paper
was the reconstruction for exhibit of “Schweigger’s multiplier” of
1821, popularly regarded as the progenitor of the galvanometer. In
the course of this work Chipman found that several other instruments
of the same type were developed in the same year by Johann C. Pog-
gendorf and James Cumming. The consequence was an exhibit, in
which five reconstructed instruments are shown, and the present paper,
in which his findings are exposed.

Robert M. Vogel has produced three papers in connection with the
design of the hall of civil engineering. His paper on the engineering
112 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965—-MUSEUM OF HISTORY & TECHNOLOGY

contributions of Wendel Bollman arose in the dual problem of repre-
senting the work of Bollman in the exhibit of bridge building and of
evaluating an actual bridge, which had been brought to our attention
as the last surviving example of Bollman’s work. Because of the
interesting and unique problems arising during the design and con-
struction of the hall, Vogel has presented the results of his experience
in two papers that describe the manner in which objects and docu-
ments are utilized to produce exhibits which will be both attractive to
a general audience and informative to the specialist.

Walter F. Cannon, who spent part of 1962 and 1963 in London on a
National Science Foundation research grant for the study of science in
England in the 19th century, published the results in two papers,
‘History in Depth: the Early Victorian Period,” and “Scientists and
Broad Churchmen: an Early Victorian Intellectual Network.” He is
now working on a biography of John Herschel.

Hamarneh spent the period June 29 through October 17, 1964, in a
research tour of ten Middle Eastern countries and Spain. In addition
to assembling manuscript data for a history of medicine in medieval
Islam, he collected data for indexing the medical manuscripts in the
Zahiriyah National Library, Damascus.

Edwin A. Battison arranged for and supervised the translation of two
Russian books through the Israel Program for Scientific Translations:
S. V. Tarasov, Technology of watch production (Moscow, 1956), and A. S.
Britkin and S. S. Vidonov’s biography of the machine builder A. K.
Nartov. These translations, which have been completed, will be
published with introductions by Battison.

Publications by the Staff
July 1964 through June 1965

AvnEy, Epwin T., and CHApPELLE, Howarp I. The bark canoes and
skin boats of North America. (U.S. National Museum Bulletin 230),
246 pp., 224 figs., 1964.

Battison, Epwin A. Screw-thread cutting by the master-screw
method since 1480. Paper 37 in Contributions from the Museum of
History and Technology (U.S. National Museum Bulletin 240),
pp. 105-120, 23 figs., 1964.

Bepint, Strvio A. Early American scientific instruments and their makers.
(U.S. National Museum Bulletin 231), 184 pp., 85 figs., 1964.

—. The Borghesi astronomical clock in the Museum of History

and Technology. Paper 35 in Contributions from the Museum of

History and Technology (U.S. National Museum Bulletin 240), pp.

29-16, 55 figs:, 1964;

U.S. Army communications satellite ““Courier’” (see p. 135) in newly opened
hall of electricity.

A section of hall of electricity tracing development of early lighting systems
and the telephone.
Special exhibit of early modern scientific instruments from the collection
of David H. H. Felix of Philadelphia. Above: 17th- and 18th-century
Persian and Italian astrolabes and armillary spheres. Below: Gregor-
ian telescopes by Watson and Nairne, planetarium by Jones.

American merchant marine hall was opened November 13, 1964. Its many
rigged models trace the evolution of American ships for over two centuries.
Above: model of Santa Maria, built in Museo Maritimo, Barcelona, as
reconstructed for New York World’s Fair. Gift of Lawrence H. M. Vineburg.
(See p. 129.)

Installing 12-ton piston assembly of Interborough Rapid ‘Transit Co. engine
in the hall of heavy machinery. Engine from which it was removed was
one of eight that drove the generators supplying power to New York’s first
subway, opened in 1904. ‘These principal moving parts convey a sense of
the size of the reciprocating steam engine at the peak of its development,
before it was displaced by the steam turbine for this use. ‘The piston is
7 feet in diameter and with its rod weighs 6 tons. The crosshead being
screwed on lower end of the piston rod, below, guides the rod when the
engine is in operation.

RESEARCH & PUBLICATIONS—SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY 113

Bramante e l’astrario del de’ Dondi: Memorie della Acca-
demia Patavina di Scienze. JLettere ed Arti (Padua, 1964), vol. 34,
pp. 286-290.

. Johann Wolfgang Gelb of Ulm, 17th century clock and

instrument maker. Physics (1964), vol. 6, pp. 245-258, 6 illustr.

Time and light, the history of combined utensils for lighting
and timekeeping. La Suissee Horlogére (internat. ed.), (Winter
1964), vol. 78, pp. 486-502; (Spring 1965), vol. 79, pp. 54-76.

——. A Renaissance lapidary lathe. Technology and Culture (Summer
1965), vol. 6, no. 3, pp. 1-9, 10 pls.

The evolution of science museums. Technology and Culture
(Winter 1965), vol. 6, no. 1, pp. 1-29, 2 figs.

BERKEBILE, DonaLtp H. The 1893 Duryea automobile. Paper 34 in
Contributions from the Museum of History and Technology (U.S. National
Museum Bulletin 240), pp. 1-28, 29 figs., 1964.

Cannon, WALTER F. History in depth: The early Victorian period.
History of Science (1964), vol. 3, pp. 20-38.

The role of the Cambridge movement in early 19th century

science. Pp. 317-320 in Proceedings of the 10th International Congress

of the History of Science. Paris: Hermann, 1964.

. The normative role of science in early Victorian thought.

Journal of the History of Ideas (October-December 1964), vol. 25,

no. 4, pp. 487-502.

—. Scientists and broad churchmen: An early Victorian intel-

lectual network. Journal of British Studies (November 1964), vol.4,

no. 1, pp. 65-88.

William Whewell, F.R.S., Part II: Contributions to science
and learning. Notes and Records of the Royal Society of London (Decem-
ber 1964), vol. 19, no. 2, pp. 176-191.

CHAPELLE, Howarp I. Fulton’s ‘Steam Battery’: Blockship and
catamaran. Paper 39 in Contributions from the Museum of History
and Technology (U.S. National Museum Bulletin 240), pp. 137-176,
20 figs., 1964.

CurpMaNn, Ropert A. The earliest electromagnetic instruments.
Paper 38 in Contributions from the Museum of History and Technology
(U.S. National Museum Bulletin 240), pp. 121-136, 8 figs., 1964.

FARBER, Epuarp. History of phosphorus. Paper 40 in Contributions
from the Museum of History and Technology (U.S. National Museum
Bulletin 240), pp. 177-200, 23 figs., 1965.

YEercuson, Eucene S., Edit. Early engineering reminiscences (1815-40)
of George Escol Sellers. (U.S. National Museum Bulletin 238),
203 pp., 83 figs., 1965.

114 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965—-MUSEUM OF HISTORY & TECHNOLOGY

Technical museums and international exhibition. Tech-
nology and Culture (Winter 1965), vol. 6, no. 1, pp. 30-46.

Finn, BERNARD S. The new technical museums. Museum News
(November 1964), vol. 43, no. 3, pp. 22-26.

The science museum today. Technology and Culture (Winter

1965), vol. 6, no. 1, pp. 74-82.

HaMARNEH, SAMI K. Origin and functions of the hisbah system in
Islam and its impact on the health professions. Sudhoffs Archiv fiir
Geschichte der Medizin und der Naturwissenschaften (June 1964), vol. 48,
HO. 2, SOPs oleioe

The pharmacy museum at Krakow. American Journal of

Hospital Pharmacy (June 1964), vol. 21, pp. 266-273, 12 illustr.

Bibliography on medicine and pharmacy in medieval Islam.
Internationalen Gesellschaft fiir Geschichte der Pharmazie (Stuttgart, 1964),
n.s., vol. 25, 184 pp., 5 illustr.

———. History of the division of medical sciences. Paper 43 in
Contributions from the Museum of History and Technology (U.S. National
Museum Bulletin 240), pp. 269-300, 24 figs., 1964.

Medicine U.S.A. . . . Damascus international fair. ournal

of the American Pharmaceutical Association (January 1965), n.s., vol. 5,

no. 1, pp. 28-29, 3 illustr.

Surgical developments in medieval Arabic medicine. View-
points (April 1965), vol. 5, no. 4, pp. 13-18, 6 illustr.

LENZEN, Victor F., and MuttHaur, Ropert P. Development of
gravity pendulums in the 19th century. Paper 44 in Contributions
from the Museum of History and Technology (U.S. National Museum
Bulletin 240), pp. 301-348, 34 figs., 1965.

MUuLTHAUF, Rosert P. The ancient natural philosopher as a chemist.
Pp. 815-818 in Proceedings of the 10th International Congress of the
History of Science. Paris: Hermann, 1964.

Engineering in Philadelphia, 1775-1825: Pennsylvania’s

contributions to the professions. Pp. 60-67 in Proceedings of the

Second Rose Fill Seminar. 1964.

A museum case history. Technology and Culture (Winter 1965),
vol. 6, no. 1, pp. 47-58.

VocEL, Rosert M. Tunnel engineering, a museum treatment.
Paper 41 in Contributions from the Museum of History and Technology
(U.S. National Museum Bulletin 240), pp. 201-240, 44 figs., 1964.

The engineering contributions of Wendel Bollman. Paper 36

in Contributions from the Museum of History and Technology (U.S.

National Museum Bulletin 240), pp. 77-104, 24 figs., 1964.

RESEARCH & PUBLICATIONS—SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY 115

Smithsonian Institution opens a new hall of civil engineering.

Civil Engineering (July 1964), pp. 84-85, 4 illustr.

Assembling a new hall of civil engineering. Technology and
Culture (Winter 1965), vol. 6, no. 1, pp. 59-73, 9 figs.

Waite, Joun H. The ‘‘Pioneer’’—light passenger locomotive of 1851.
Paper 42 in Contributions from the Museum of History and Technology
(U.S. National Museum Bulletin 240), pp. 241-268, 30 figs., 1964.

Alexander Latta as a locomotive designer. Bulletin Cincin-

nati Historical Society (April 1965), vol. 23, no. 2, pp. 128-135, 3

illustr.

ARTS AND MANUFACTURES

The new curator of agriculture and forest products, John T. Schle-
becker, took up his duties on June 14, 1965. Since 1959 associate
professor of history at Iowa State University, he is a member of the
executive committee of the Agricultural History Society and an im-
portant contributor to agricultural history studies. His History of
Dairying in the United States 1607-1964 is in press, and he has in progress
a much-needed general history of American agriculture.

Paul V. Gardner spent six weeks in Europe examining 22 museum
and private collections for the purpose of verifying attributions and
preparing material for a definitive catalog of the unique collection of
18th-century European porcelains received from Dr. Hans Syz. In
the same connection and with the support and cooperation of the
Ceramica Stiftung of Basel, Switzerland, arrangements were made by
Dr. Syz for consultation in Washington with Dr. Rainer Riickert, Ober-
konservator of the Bayerisches Nationalmuseum, Munich, Germany,
who spent the period April 19 through June 14, 1965, working with
Dr. Syz and the staff on special problems.

Dr. Syz, who on April 27, 1965, was appointed an honorary fellow
of the Smithsonian Institution in recognition of his scholarly contri-
butions to the history of ceramics, continues to spend several days every
month on the project.

Gardner, who has spent a major portion of his time revising the
script for the new hall of ceramics to include the Syz collection, has
nearly completed his biography of Frederick Carder, founder of Steuben
Glass Works. While in Europe, he visited London and the English
Midlands in search of material concerning Carder’s early training and
experience. J. Jefferson Miller II was also heavily involved in the
revision of the hall of ceramics script to include recent important
116 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965—-MUSEUM OF HISTORY & TECHNOLOGY

acquisitions in the Syz and Sutherland collections. He has contributed
extensively to the material for the Syz catalog.

Jacob Kainen continued his study of the Dutch engraver Hendrick
Goltzius (1558-1617).

Eugene Ostroff has developed a new technique to restore faded
photographic images through neutron irradiation. This work, de-
scribed on page 107, is the subject of a paper, ‘Early Fox Talbot
Photographs and Restoration by Neutron Irradiation,” to be published
by the Journal of Photographic Science (London). Ostroff is continuing
his research into Talbot’s experimental procedures. As part of his
investigation he examined four Talbot work diaries, and he uncovered
a group of Talbot’s photographic experiments which has been brought
back to Washington for study. He also found what may prove to be
the earliest negatives on a transparent flexible-base material. These
photographs by Nevil S. Maskelyne were made, ca. 1860, on very thin
sheets of mica. At the invitation of Beaumont Newhall, director of
George Eastman House, Ostroff presented a paper describing this work
at the Symposium on the History of Photography and served as modera-
tor of a panel on the preservation of photographic materials.

A project idea originated by Mr. Ostroff has resulted in a unique
photograph of the United States. This consists of an unbroken aerial
color photograph of the United States from the east to the west coast,
and, as a result, the longest panoramic picture in the world was pro-
duced. The project involved the cooperation of the United States
Navy, North American Aviation, Chicago Aerial Industries, and Gen-
eral Aniline and Film Corporation.

Museum technician David Haberstitch, who joined the staff in
November 1964, has investigated the history of the section of photogra-
phy. His report concerning its establishment and early activities
reveals that the Smithsonian Institution was probably the first museum
in the United States to collect material related to the history of
photography.

Philip W. Bishop worked on studies of early drilling methods and has
documented the procedure used by Colonel Drake in drilling the first
commercial oil well. A study of depreciation methods and _ their
influence on the process of innovation, especially during the period
1870-1914, is also in progress.

Research concerned with the preparation of scripts for the halls of
nuclear energy, petroleum, iron and steel, and general manufacturing,
has required continuous consultation with the technical staffs of in-
dustrial firms and scientific laboratories and has resulted, incidentally,
in a number of substantial gifts to the Museum. John N. Hoffman,
RESEARCH & PUBLICATIONS—SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY 117

who entered on duty July 12, 1964, as associate curator of manufac-
tures and heavy industries, has developed a design for the hall of coal.
He has begun a study of the significance of the canal in the develop-
ment of Pennsylvania’s coal resources in the early 19th century.

Mrs. Grace Rogers Cooper continued her research on the spinning
wheel and its use in America from the Colonial era through the 19th
century.

Rita J. Adrosko made progress in her work on American coverlets and
began two short-term projects: one on Jacquard-woven silk pictures
and Jacquard imitation tapestries, and the second on the use of natural
dyes in 18th- and 19th-century American textiles.

Museum specialist Doris M. Bowman located a number of excellent
examples of early machine-made net of the late 18th and early 19th
century for her study of that article. Her catalog of the Museum’s
excellent collection of sewing birds and similar clamping devices is also
further advanced.

Publications by the Staff
July 1964 through Fune 1965

AnpDROSKO, Rira J. Restoring an old loom. Handweaver and Craftsman
(Summer 1964), vol. 15, no. 3, pp. 16-18, 4 figs.

Cooper, Grace R. Sewing machines, unusual styles of the 1850’s.
Spinning Wheel (a national magazine about antiques), (July-August
1964), vol. 20, nos. 7-8, pp. 20-21, 5 figs., cover illustr.

. John Kay. Jn vol. 13 of Encyclopedia Britannica, 1965.

Moire. In vol. 15 of Encyclopedia Britannica, 1965.

Miter, J. JEFFERSON u. Transfer printed English earthenware for
the American market. Apollo (January 1965), n.s., vol. 81, no. 35,
pp. 46-50.

Early Meissen tea canisters. Country Life (Feb. 4, 1965),

vol. 130, no. 3544, pp. 222-223.

Transfer printed American scenes on Staffordshire wares.

In Annual Catalog of the Johns Hopkins Hospital Carriage House Antique

Show (May 1965).

CIVIL HiSTORY

Documentation of an important and extensive collection of over
350 examples of American folk art, the Eleanor and Mabel Van
Alstyne collection, which came to the museum in December, partly
118 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965—MUSEUM OF HISTORY & TECHNOLOGY

by gift and partly on loan from Mrs. Fred Dana Marsh of Woodstock,
N.Y., was undertaken by Peter Welsh and Anne Castrodale. This
collection includes rare examples of the late 18th century and extends
to the early 20th century. Carved animals from carousels, circus
wagon figures, and shop and tavern signs abound in the group, which
also includes paintings, calligraphy, weathervanes, ships’ ornaments,
and small carved birds and animals.

The original interior appearance and furnishings of the Smithsonian
building have been the subject of an extensive research project ini-
tiated by Richard H. Howland. In this he has been assisted by
Rodris C. Roth. This nationally significant architectural landmark
was designed in the 1840’s by the noted architect James Renwick,
and the long-range plan of renovation is intended to produce an
interior that is in harmony with the exterior, and yet can serve use-
fully as offices and exhibit areas. The research is nearing completion:
renovation of the Regents’ room and the Secretary’s offices has been
completed to reflect the period of the third quarter of the 19th century,
the epoch of Joseph Henry’s secretaryship; and considerable work
has already been accomplished on the renovation of the great hall,
which will serve as an exhibit area and visitors’ lounge. Welsh has
collaborated in choosing for it exhibits that reflect the significant
research accomplishments of the museums and major bureaus of the
Smithsonian.

Museum specialist Jay Scott Odell made two field trips to the south-
ern Appalachian mountain country, primarily in Virginia and North
Carolina, to search for American folk instruments for the collections
and to record the present traditions of musical performance in those
areas.

Concerned with interrelated objectives of research and exhibits,
C. Malcolm Watkins and Mrs. Joan Pearson Watkins, research col-
laborator, during October sought a post-Gold Rush period ranch
house kitchen in northern California to install in the Museum’s hall of
everyday life in the American past. One was found in a long-aban-
doned house, built about 1862 at the foot of Mount Shasta, which
exemplifies both the transfer of traditional Eastern folk concepts of
farm-house architecture and the adaptation of design to new Western
conditions. With the cooperation of George H. Watson, specialist
in restoration of old structures, the house was thoroughly analyzed
and measured, and its plans were drawn. Mrs. Watkins made a
detailed photographic study of it, and interviewed descendants of the
builder, a gold-miner-turned-rancher named George Washington
Arbaugh, and others.
RESEARCH & PUBLICATIONS—-ARTS AND MANUFACTURES 119

Mr. Watkins is also engaged in research relative to a frame “‘salt
box” house built in 1853 in Half Moon Bay, San Mateo County.
Embodying ideas from 18th- and early 19th-century Eastern proto-
types as well as adaptive features typical of California, the house is
rich in implications of cultural transfer and cultural change.

Mrs. Elvira Clain-Stefanelli published her Select Numismatic Bibli-
ography, a compilation of 4962 titles, arranged by subject, that sum-
marize research in numismatics during the past two centuries, including
the study of medals and decorations, and a history of prices and related
economic and historical problems.

Vladimir Clain-Stefanelli, in addition to his publications, gave two
lectures, ““The Future of United States Coinage” and “Historical
Notes on Some Coinage Metals,” that attracted wide press coverage
because their themes touched on the impending shortage of silver for
United States coinage.

Publications by the Staff
July 1964 through Fune 1965

BortTuwick, Doris E. Outfitting the United States Exploring Expe-
dition: Lieutenant Charles Wilkes’ European assignment, August—
November, 1836. Proceedings of the American Philosophical Society
(June 1965), vol. 109, no. 3, pp. 159-172, 7 illustr.

CLAIN-STEFANELLI, ELvirA. Medallic art at the Cleveland convention:
Exposition des médailles 4 la convention de Cleveland. Médailles
(Paris, December 1964), vol. 27, no. 1, pp. 2-5.

. Select numismatic bibliography. xiv, 406 pp. New York:
Stack’s, 1965.

CLAIN-STEFANELLI, VLADIMIR. A new quarter shekel of the first year
of the Jewish war. Israel Numismatic Journal (1964), vol. 2, p. 7,
pl. 6.

The future of United States coinage. Numismatist (1964),

pp. 1673-1675; (1965), pp. 39-41.

The silver crisis in the United States coinage system. Central
Economic Letter (Central National Bank of Cleveland, 1965), vol. 4,
pp. 1-4.

Coxuins, Hersert R. Political campaign torches. Paper 45 in
Contributions from the Museum of History and Technology (U.S. National

Museum Bulletin 241), pp. 1-44, 1964.

Red Cross ambulance of 1898. Paper 50 in Contributions

from the Museum of History and Technology (U.S. National Museum

Bulletin 241), pp. 165-176, 1965.

120 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965-—MUSEUM OF HISTORY & TECHNOLOGY

Hoover, CyntHis ApaAms. The slide trumpet of the nineteenth
century. Brass Quarterly (Summer 1963), vol. 6, no. 4, pp. 159-178,
7 pis.

How .anD, RicHarp H., and Forses, JoHn D. The society of archi-
tectural historians. Pp. 77-81 in Report of the Commission on the
Humanities. New York: American Council of Learned Societies,
1964.

What is past is prologue. Museum News (November 1964),

vol. 43, no. 3, pp. 34-39.

Echoes of a gilded epoch. Arts in Virginia (Fall 1964),
vols 5;;nO) eh ppa2a9)

KLAPTHOR, MARGARET Brown. Southern Maryland during the War
of 1812. The Record (Quarterly Journal of the Historical Society
of Charles City, Md., 1965), pp. 1-6.

(ed. of historical text). The First Ladies’ Cook Book: Favorite
Recipes of all the Presidents of the United States. Pp. 1-224. New
York, 1965.

ME LDER, KeirH E. Bryan the campaigner. Paper 46 in Contributions
from the Museum of History and Technology (U.S. National Museum
Bulletin 241), pp. 45-80, 1965.

The beginnings of the women’s rights movement in the
United States, 1800-1840. 500 pp. University Microfilms, 1965.

Murray, ANNE W. ‘The elegant handkerchief. Antiques (June 1965),
pp720—-125.

Rotu, Ropris. The colonial revival and ‘‘centennial furniture.”
Art Quarterly (1964), vol. 27, no. 1, pp. 57-81, 24 figs.

SCHEELE, CaArL H. A new home for the Smithsonian’s philatelic and
postal history collections. Congress Book (Thirtieth American
Philatelic Congress, 1964), pp. 11-14, 1 pl.

A philatelic new look at the Smithsonian. Society of Philatelic

Americans Journal (September 1964), vol. 47, no. 1, pp. 13-18,

3 figs.

Philately and postal history at the Smithsonian Institution.
Scandinavian Scribe (March 1965), vol. 1, no. 4, pp. 67-71.

WasHBuRN, Witcomsp E. A Roman sarcophagus in a museum of
American history. Curator (December 1964), vol. 7, no. 4, pp.
296-299

[Introduction to facsimile edition of] History of the Indians of

Connecticut from the earliest known period to 1850, by John W. De Forest,

Archon Books, 1964 [20 pp.].

Law and authority in Colonial Virginia. Pp. 116-135 in

Law and Authority in Colonial America, edit. George A. Billias; Barre,

Mass., 1965.

From this two-room frame house, built about 1862 by George Washington
Arbaugh in Siskiyou County, California, came the western frontier ranch
kitchen, shown below, which has been installed in the hall of everyday life
in the American past. (See pp. 118, 138.)

This faded photograph of a table setting, taken circa 1841 by W. H. F. ‘Talbot
of England, who in 1839 invented the photographic negative, was exposed

to radiation in the pile at Brookhaven ‘National Laboratories.

When the treated original was then placed in contact with x-ray film, the
(See pp.

radioactive isotopes of some image silver produced this picture.

107-108.)
RESEARCH & PUBLICATIONS—-ARMED FORCES HISTORY 121

Natural light and the museum of the future. AJA Journal

(January 1965), vol. 43, no. 1, pp. 60-64.

. The museum and Joseph Henry. Curator (May 1965), vol. 8,
Hee pp? 35~54-

WELSH, PETER C. Tanning in the United States to 1850: A brief history.
(U.S. National Museum Bulletin 242), 108 pp., 28 illustr., 1964.

The decorative appeal of hand tools. Antiques (February

1965), vol. 87, no. 2, pp. 204-207, 15 illustr.

United States patents, 1790 to 1870. Paper 48 in Contribu-

tions from the Museum of History and Technology (U.S. National

Museum Bulletin 241), pp. 109-152, 57 illustr., 1965.

ARMED FORCES HISTORY

Underwater exploration, with its related activities, continued to be
a major element in the program of Mendel L. Peterson. Research on
the techniques of surveying and measuring underwater remains pro-
ceeded on Bermuda sites. Three new instruments for measuring in
plan and elevation were tested on the timber remains of a ship believed
to be Spanish of the late 16th century. Their use is described in detail
and illustrated on pages 105-106.

Research on techniques of preserving organic materials recovered
from underwater sites was continued with substantial results by museum
specialist Alan B. Albright. The following investigations were carried
on:

1. The devising of a rapid method of dehydration, using heated
alcohol.

2. Tests using acetone as a dehydration agent.

3. Experiments using various heat ranges in attempting to speed
up the penetration of PEG 4000 in dehydrated wood.

4. Experiments in the use of PEG 6000 in the place of PEG 4000
where the greater inherent strength of the higher weight PEG would
be useful in restoring very fragile organic objects.

5. Research into the use of fiberglass resin as a wood preservative.

6. Continued research in the problem of the preservation of iron
recovered from under water; research into the use of high temperatures
and wax impregnation under vacuum in an attempt to eliminate the
long process involved in the use of electro-chemical baths.

7. Restoration of ceramic materials.

The results of these researches were published by Peterson this year in
his History under the Sea: A Handbook for Underwater Exploration.
7894276618
122 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965—MUSEUM OF HISTORY & TECHNOLOGY

In the division of military history Edgar M. Howell and museum
specialist Donald E. Kloster completed in draft the first volume of a
comprehensive descriptive and critical catalog on United States Army
dress to include uniforms, headgear, and footwear. In connection
with this work, they actively assisted the Department of the Army in
research which resulted in the adoption of a new-type headgear.
Howell continued his work on contemporary graphics relating to the
role of the Army in the opening of the West, publishing a second
monograph on the subject. Kloster completed as partial requirement
for the degree of master of arts a thesis, ““The United States Uniform
from 1832 to 1851, from Romance to Practicality.”

In the division of naval history Philip K. Lundeberg broadened his
long-range study of modern commerce warfare, completing a survey of
“The Impact of Undersea Warfare upon Allied Strategy during the
First World War,” which he presented at the annual convention of the
American Historical Association. Delivered at a session sponsored by
the American Military Institute on the influence of technology upon
strategy in World War I, this paper re-examined the maritime con-
flict in terms of the downfall of Imperial Russia, as well as Imperial
Germany. Notwithstanding the fact that undersea operations utterly
failed Germany, their most ardent protagonist during the First World
War, submarine and mine warfare exerted a profound influence upon
Great Britain’s peripheral strategy, repeatedly frustrating her attempts
to achieve effective maritime collaboration with her isolated eastern
ally.

Melvin H. Jackson continued his study of naval muzzle-loading
ordnance of the 18th and 19th centuries. A field trip to Europe, which
covered the coastal region from Sweden to Spain and included southern
France and England, produced from naval museums and archives
basic information which will enrich material contained in a manu-
script on muzzle-loading ordnance prepared by the late Colonel
Carey Tucker. At the Legersmuseum in Leiden, a series of 50 draw-
ings concerning brass cannon founding in the 18th century was
brought to Jackson’s attention. These drawings by Pieter Verbruggen
(who, with his father Jan, was master-founder of the Royal Brass
Foundry at Woolwich, England, from 1770 to 1800) proved of such
interest, from both the point of view of ordnance and the history of
technology, that plans are under way for their publication. Jackson’s
manuscript “Caribbean Vortex, 1793-1801,” a maritime history of the
Wars of the French Revolution in the Caribbean was completed and is
under consideration by a university press. His lecture at the Walter
Library, University of Minnesota, Salt, Sugar and Slaves: The Dutch in
RESEARCH & PUBLICATIONS—-ARMED FORCES HISTORY 123

the Caribbean, was published by the Associates of the James Ford Bell
Collection.

Publications by the Staff
July 1964 through June 1965

Goins, Crappock R., Jr., Lorenzoni repeating system. P. 151 in
Encyclopedia of Firearms, 1964.

. John H. Hall and Hall breech-loading arms. Pp. 157-158 in

Encyclopedia of Firearms, 1964.

Edward Maynard. P. 218 in Encyclopedia of Firearms, 1964.

Pump action. Pp. 249-250 in Encyclopedia of Firearms, 1964.

Repeating arms. Pp. 254-256 in Encyclopedia of Firearms,

1964.
HoweE.., Epcar M. A special artist in the Indian Wars. Montana,
the Magazine of Western History (1965), vol. 15, no. 2, pp. 2-23, 23 pls.
Jackson, Mervin H. Salt, sugar and slaves: The Dutch in the Caribbean
(No. 2 in James Ford Bell Lectures). Minnesota: Associates of the
James Ford Bell Collection, 1965.
PeTerRsON, MENDEL L. History under the sea: A handbook for underwater
exploration. Smithsonian Publication 4538, 108 pp., illustr., 1965.
—. Preservation of material recovered from water. 20 pp. Washing-
ton: Office of the Chief of Naval Operations, Division of Naval
History, 1965.
. The Spanish plate fleet. Pp. 162-169 in Proceedings of the
Fifth Annual Convention of the Underwater Society of America. Mexico
City, 1965.

The Collections
CARE AND CONSERVATION

SPECIMENS ACCESSIONED, IDENTIFIED, AND DISTRIBUTED—
FISCAL YEAR 1965

Accessions Trans- _—_ Lent for
(transac- ferred to study to
tions) Exchanged other Gov- investigators
1965 Received with other ernment and other Specimens
Departments (new) on loan institutions agencies institutions identified
Science and Tech-

TONER Gb 6c 254 g 2 0 92 112
Arts and Manu-

HAGUURESHes een 266 2 4 334 181 1, 150
Civil History . . 744 1,393 0 50 1,460 145, 834
Armed Forces His-

HOLY) futsts 5 Js 128 0 0 0 22 950

Dotaly ic .* 2 1,392 1, 398 6 384 1,755 148, 046

SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY

The receipt of a large collection often poses a problem in cataloging
and documentation. Such collections sometimes come to the Museum
because their processing has been beyond the capacity of other museums
or private collectors. The extant records may be incomplete, and
their rehabilitation and full documentation may require years. Three
large collections were handled this year: the Hirsch collection of water
meters (96 items), the Read collection of phonographs (93 items), and
the Arthur collection of timekeeping devices (about 2600 items).
Processing them called for a special effort in which summer interns and
outside consultants assisted Deborah Mills in their cataloging.

A program to make operable the majority of machines to be exhibited
in the hall of heavy machinery was undertaken by William Henson
and Marion Jarboe. The latter also began occasional demonstrations
of the machine tools in the hall of tools. An alarm system devised by
Elliot Sivowitch and Roy LaRoche of the division of electricity has
been installed experimentally for the protection of several objects not
cased.

ARTS AND MANUFACTURES

A new technique for restoring faded photographs through neutron
irradiation was devised by Eugene Ostroff (it is described in detail on
page 107). A small selection of the most valuable photographs in the
collection is now being treated by this method.

124
THE COLLECTIONS—CARE AND CONSERVATION 125

Museum specialist Elliott Hawkins continued a long-range program
of increasing the collections of periodicals, monographs, and books
devoted to motion pictures.

The cleaning of George Washington’s headquarters tent, a major
conservation project, was jointly undertaken by the divisions of textiles
and military history. With plans for its permanent exhibition, this
Revolutionary War tent, which had been carefully stored for 75 years
in the military history collections, was carefully examined. It was
found basically in sturdy condition, but the metal hooks and eyes
used to fasten the sidewalls to the top had rusted and had stained and
deterioriated the linen fabric, leaving it in an acid condition. The
tent was also mud stained and generally dusty. After consultation, it
was decided that for safe preservation, the tent, of single ply, z-twist,
plain-woven, unbleached linen, should be cleaned to neutralize the
acid condition which is very harmful to cellulose fibers.

Stretched out, the sidewalls measured 82’3’’ long and between 6'4’’
and 5/1%’’ high. The top measured 34’ by 20’8’’ and was edged
with a valance trimmed in a narrow woven red wool-twill tape of 2-ply,
s-twist worsted yarns. Before work could be started, the 171 rusty
hooks and eyes were removed to prevent further deterioration from
rust. The tent parts were then protected with fiberglass screening
and carefully vacuumed with a hand-type, low-suction vacuum cleaner
to remove all loose dust and dirt.

Although neutralized distilled water would have been preferred,
the quantity required made it more economical to use de-ionized water
with a non-ionic detergent. To handle the two portions of the tent,
a wooden frame 11’x7’ by 7’’ deep was constructed to support a con-
tainer made of two layers of polyethylene sheets that could be clamped
and unclamped to the frame as required.

The sidewall portion was folded into eight layers, placed on fiber-
glass screening of suitable size, and lowered into a bath of 180 gallons of
neutral, de-ionized water at room temperature, where it was soaked
for 65 hours. This removed the large water-mark stains on the tent
and some of the soil. Supported on the screen, the sidewall was re-
moved from the bath, the soiled water pumped out, and the dirt film
was wiped off and rinsed from the polyethylene bath liner, after which
the bath was refilled with a wash solution consisting of 4 oz. of non-
ionic detergent to each gallon of de-ionized water, the detergent
first having been dissolved in beakers of water over low heat. When
the entire bath was at room temperature, the sidewall was lowered into
it and remained there for 3% hours. The only mechanical action used
was a gentle pushing and smoothing movement by hand to eliminate
air bubbles that formed between the layers of tent. After being re-
126 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965—-MUSEUM OF HISTORY & TECHNOLOGY

moved from the detergent solution, the sidewall was rinsed four times.
Each rinse solution was tested for pH, and the final reading was a very
satisfactory 7.1.

After removal from the final rinse, the sidewall was allowed to drain
on the screening until excess moisture was eliminated. It was then
laid on a polyethylene film placed over a terrazzo floor and carefully
smoothed flat while damp. The linen adhered to the plastic and
dried smooth overnight. White absorbent towels, laid along the full
length, took up excess moisture and protected the linen from dust.
It was then rolled until the case was completed for exhibition.

The top was treated in the same manner, except that, because of the
shaped construction, it was dried on a frame stretched with fiberglass
screening and supported two feet from the ground to allow a good
circulation of air and to keep drying time at a minimum. At installa-
tion it was lightly sprayed with distilled water and smoothed to the
shape of its contour support structure.

The entire project, under the general supervision of Mrs. Grace R.
Cooper, was carried out by museum technician Maureen Collins of the
textile laboratory, assisted by museum technician Lois Vann of the
division of textiles and museum specialist Donald Kloster of the division
of military history.

CIVIL HISTORY

A new, well-equipped conservation laboratory designed by museum
specialist Jay Scott Odell, has facilities for the restoration of all types
of musical instruments and includes a “‘go-bar deck,” an adaptation of
an 18th-century device for gluing bridges on harpsichord sound boards.
With the completion of this laboratory, most of the restoration work
can now be done at the museum under controlled conditions. Once
the collections are in order, this shop will also be used for experiments
in the building of modern reproductions of medieval, Renaissance, and
Baroque instruments.

Specially designed metal storage racks, installed for keyboard instru-
ments, are cantilevered to allow for storage flexibility. The keyboard
instruments, with their legs removed, are mounted on wooden pallets
and lifted into place by a fork-lift truck. This system permits ready
examination of the instruments, and is efficient enough to store a major
portion of the Smithsonian’s collection of more than 200 keyboard
instruments.

Under the guidance of museum technician Mrs. Betty J. Walters,
considerable progress was made in assembling data on certain phases
of the collections for use in a Termatrex data-retrieval system. Ulti-
mately, it is expected that major portions of the collections, with their
THE COLLECTIONS—GIFTS AND ADDITIONS 127

associated catalog records, can be made useful in a variety of ways
hitherto impossible by visual or manual means.

More than 95 percent of the entire reference collection of philatelic
items was moved from the old Arts and Industries building into the
new museum within two days, and the move was completed without
damage to any of the 9,800,000 specimens handled.

ARMED FORCES HISTORY

Experiments were begun to test the effectiveness of a commercial
rust-inhibitor formula C.R.C., which appears to be most effective and
requires less work than is presently required in applying a wax formula.

GIFTS AND ADDITIONS

SPECIMENS IN THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS MAY 31, 1965

DEPARTMENT OF SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY. .... . 84, 405
Physical Scieaces® >.) |.) AFP, a. 4, 453
Mechanical and Civil Ene <2 {Tf BNO? 11, 091
Be CERICLOVErEES FIs sMNs OS 2 MOU AT ERE RE. 1 ee
sires POLLALION) 20 pel oes Botts) ais abl se eis 25, 783
Medical Sciences . . . SI SE EAT pa 35, 745
DEPARTMENT OF ARTS AND Manuc acne. HUT Aer ee 149, 808
HextalestiiiYs D4! ABLIOUE §BVIOLS EIS LRT. 35,172
CerannesandnGlass teri ()t %, «teu it th. Pare al fy SIT
EAB IGIATES Fai eet ymipye\ cost 3 Jules Sp ate stir hens 51, 714
Manufactures and Heavy Industries. ..... . 35,214
metemiiiee and Porest Products 9. -.. + + = « « 10, 551
WMPAREMENT OF Civit: ELISTORY 9. ss ss es lhe LOST 963735
Polticeal History... 2) 19.) PUPS TERE SMS 48, 350
Cultural History . . Ae a ae emir conchae 23, 688
Philately and Postal Elistauy, ay eb aeash oy eee sea Sooo AA POL
INUEMISMALICSY .. 6 5 ss) ss sued: Fol. or aoe ane 179, 760
DEPARTMENT OF ARMED FORCES rpetey CIES aah rsa eee 53, 303
Minitanvaroee —ahessccagise ass se hecernerecS - 41, 249
RAM mete iee SPARE SOE. COLND ARTES ee 1 BOLE LIND 12, 054
PROIGATHMEEE ST ers a Coe ete, hikes slender 4 10, 484, 251

SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY

A number of notable collections were acquired this year by the
department of science and technology. Among them are the Arthur
collection of timekeeping devices, the Read collection of phonographs,
a rare early American woodworking shop, a collection of wood-
carvings, and the “first generation’? of communications satellites.
128 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965—-MUSEUM OF HISTORY & TECHNOLOGY

The first, assembled by James Arthur, who also endowed the Arthur
lectures at the Smithsonian, is especially remarkable for Japanese
and early American clocks and for American watches. It was re-
ceived on permanent loan from New York University. The Read
collection was received from Oliver Read, co-author of the book
From Tinfoil to Stereo. It contains such rarities as the Edison coin-
operated phonograph of 1897, and it more than doubles the size of
the Museum’s phonograph collection. The woodworking shop, from
Mansfield, Conn., contains an up-and-down sawmill, water turbines,
and, among other machines, one of the earliest extant lathes with a
completely intact automatic feed. It also contains a very important
gage attachment for woodturning with handtools, which allows
‘‘automatic”’ sizing of the work.

The wood carvings, gift of Joel Barlow, include a number of ship
half-models, which augment our already strong collection, and also
decorative ship carvings and figureheads, of which we have heretofore
had very few. And in a highly successful example of systematic
collecting of pioneer apparatus in a particular field, Bernard S. Finn
succeeded in acquiring from five different donors, for a special ex-
hibition of “‘communications in space,’”’ actual examples of the first
eight communication satellites.

Among the important individual specimens added to the collections
were the following:

A Chinese monumental equatorial sundial of the Ming dynasty.
This instrument, 52 inches in height, is the only sundial of its type
known to exist in the Western world. Its construction is of native
copper gilded by the mercury process. The 25-inch dial is designed
to be read on both sides, with the shadow marking the hours on the
upper side during the summer months and on the lower side during
the winter.

The second ammonia-beam maser apparatus, designed in 1955
by Charles Townes of Columbia University, a joint gift of Townes
and the University. The maser is an outstanding development of
20th-century quantum physics for which the inventor shared the Nobel
Prize in 1964.

An early American-made Schmidt telescope, built in the 1930's
by C. A. and H. A. Lower of San Diego, Calif., was received from
San Diego State College.

A White Motor bus of 1917, received from the Baltimore Transit
Co., the first commercial transit motor vehicle in the collection.

A model, to the scale of 1” equals 1’, of the famed ‘“‘Louisville
pumping engine,” one of the masterpieces of Erasmus D. Leavitt,
builder of the most efficient steam engines of the 19th century. Before
Washing George Washington’s headquarters tent (see pp. 125-126). Here
the 82-foot sidewall is being rinsed.

Ie

Soest a ee

aloe ae

Sidewall is carefully smoothed onto polyethylene film for drying and is covered
with towels to absorb excess moisture and to protect it from dust.
Indian silhouette weathervane, one of many examples of American folk art in
the Eleanor and Mabel Van Alstyne collection, gift of Mrs. Fred Dana
Marsh.

<——_——

Chinese equatorial sundial, recently obtained for the national collections
(see p. 128), is 52 inches high and measures 48 inches in overall length.
The diameter of the dial is 25 inches. It is constructed of almost pure
native copper assembled with wide dovetail joints, hammered into surface
smoothness from the interior, and soldered. The decorative motifs are
chiseled and engraved from the outside, and the whole is covered with
heavy fire gilt. The dial is read on both sides—on the upper surface during
summer and on the lower surface during winter.

Early 15-passenger motor bus with solid-rubber tires, gift of Baltimore Transit
Co., was built in 1917 by the White Motor Company. ‘The body was made
by J. G. Brill, the famous streetcar builder. Below: Bow view of model of
the United States revenue cutter Bear, as she appeared in the late 19th
century, acquired for new hall of naval history.

THE COLLECTIONS—GIFTS AND ADDITIONS 129

the original engine was scrapped jin 1962, this fully operating model
was begun by the builder and donor, Mr. Harry H. Catching of
Lexington, Ky.

A model of Columbus’ flagship of 1492, Santa Maria, constructed
at the Museo Maritimo in Barcelona, under the supervision of its
director, José Ma. Martinez-Hidalgo y Teran. This model, presented
by Lawrence H. M. Vineburgh, was built in connection with the
full-sized reconstruction of the Santa Maria for the New York World’s
Fair. The project was directed by Sr. Hidalgo, as the leading authority
on the ships of Columbus, with the advisory participation of Howard I.
Chapelle.

ARTS AND MANUFACTURES

With the cooperation of the Fine Hardwoods Association and
specialist manufacturers some 200 panels of foreign and domestic
woods were presented for incorporation into a decorative screen,
designed by the exhibits laboratory, that will provide the hall of forest
products with an encyclopedic account of available timbers. For the
agriculture collections a fine contemporary model of the first field
pick-up hay baler (1932) was received from Mr. Leslie R. Tallman,
son of the inventor.

The ceramics collections continued to receive support from previous
donors, notably Mrs. William A. Sutherland and Robert H. McCauley.
Dr. Hans Syz formally donated 16 extremely valuable items of that
part of his collection still on loan to the Museum. Other major gifts
were those of Dr. Lloyd Hawes who presented 23 pieces of 18th-
century English earthenware, including some excellent examples of
polychrome salt glaze; and of Mr. and Mrs. Edward M. Pflueger,
whose gift included an extremely fine pair of Chinoiserie busts from
the Bow Factory (ca. 1755).

The Holmegaards Glasvaerk of Denmark and the N. V. Koninklijke
Nederlandsche Glasfabriek ‘“‘Leerdam” of Holland added to the
collections of contemporary glass some fine pieces which it was possible
to include in the present exhibition area. Ray Winfield Smith’s
collection of ancient glass was lent to the Museum for installation in
the glass gallery in September 1964, and during the year ten pieces
from this collection were acquired.

A splendid set of 31 Venetian views by Antonio Canal (1697-1768),
commonly called Canaletto, constituting the entire body of his etchings,
was received from Mrs. Francis P. Garvan of New York City. Among
other important acquisitions were outstanding examples of German
Expressionist printmaking including work by Max Beckmann, Ernst

789-427—66——20
130 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965—MUSEUM OF HISTORY & TECHNOLOGY

Ludwig Kirchner, Erich Heckel, Franz Marc, and Max Pechstein;
one of the earliest known lithographs Landscape with Men in Armor
(1803) by Joseph Fischer; and the aquatint Green Clown with Boy
by Georges Rouault. American contributions were represented by the
etching Woolworth Tower (1913) by the pioneer modernist John Marin,
and the color woodcut View from Taormina by Carol Summers.

The A. B. Dick Company of Chicago presented an early model (ca.
1885) of the Edison mimeograph, an important pioneer example of
duplicating equipment.

To the collection of historic photographic equipment were added
the first Polaroid-Land camera to be produced (1948); a prototype of
the first Leica camera, invented by Osker Barnack (1912) and marketed
by Leitz in 1924; and two examples of the Technicolor Corporation’s
3-step color motion-picture cameras associated with the introduction
of high-quality color motion pictures in 1930.

Colonel and Mrs. Burnett Brown of Lacock Abbey, Wiltshire, the
home of W. H. F. Talbot, gave a rare copy of Part VI (April 1846)
of the latter’s publication The Pencil of Nature, the first book to be
illustrated with photographs.

Dr. Zoltan Bay of the National Bureau of Standards deposited the
original electron-multiplier developed by him (1938) at the Institute
of Atomic Physics of the Royal Hungarian University, Budapest.
This apparatus, to be included in the hall of nuclear energy, repre-
sented a turning point in the development of instruments for counting
elementary particles. An equally critical stage in the study of nuclear
physics is represented by the million-volt Van de Graaff accelerator
(1931) given by Merle A. Tuve of the Carnegie Institution’s Division
of Terrestrial Magnetism. Among other achievements, this machine
brought protons close enough to atomic nuclei to overwhelm the inher-
ent electrical repulsion, and so demonstrated the existence of the short-
range nuclear force. Pioneer work among elementary particles was
commemorated by Professor Conversi of the Universita degli Studi,
Rome, Italy, in the form of a replica of his experiment with Piccioni
and others (1941-1943) demonstrating the noncapture of mu mesons.

A number of substantial gifts were received from industry for the
iron and steel hall. Ford Motor Company Fund and U.S. Steel
Corporation are supporting the construction of large models of a
foundry and of an integrated steel plant, respectively. The Allis-
Chalmers Company gave a model of a pelletizing plant, Bausch and
Lomb a bench metallograph, and the Tinius Olsen Company a display
of hardness-testing equipment.

The coal industry contributed a variety of miners’ tools, while a
THE COLLECTIONS—GIFTS AND ADDITIONS 131

further portion of a collection of tinware, previously on loan, was
converted to a gift.

Plans for the hall of petroleum were virtually completed by agreement
with the engineers of various firms for demonstrations of oil production
techniques to accompany the actual machinery. A group of oil men
in and around Tulsa, Okla., have contributed, through Mr. W. H.
Helmerich, a 57-foot mural describing the oil industry. This mural,
now being painted by Mr. Delbert Jackson, staff artist of the Pan
American Petroleum Corporation, will embellish the entrance to the
hall of petroleum.

The Austrian Imperial bridal veil, an outstanding example of Brus-
sels Point de Gaze lace, was presented to the textile collections by Mrs.
Marjorie Merriweather Post. The veil was worn by Princess Stephanie
of Belgium for her wedding to Crown Prince Rudolph in 1881. Scat-
tered over the Brussels needlepoint réseau, sheerest of all lace grounds,
are garlands and sprays of ferns and flowers of many kinds. The crown
of the veil is powdered with tiny rosebuds, while the double-headed
eagle of Austria dominates the center back. The arms of the provinces
of Austria and Belgium form the border, with the arms of Belgium at
the center.

Also added to the textile collections were nine fragments of Egyptian
tapestry-woven fabric, woven between the third and eighth centuries,
A.D. These interesting examples of early tapestry-weaving technique
will be incorporated into the expanded area of tapestry weaving in
the new textile hall.

CIVIL HISTORY

The collections were enriched in a variety of ways. The Honorable
David K. E. Bruce presented numerous objects of French and English
decorative arts and furniture. Mrs. Gustave A. Murman gave the
woodwork of a Federal-period parlor from a house in Martha’s Vine-
yard, Mass. This room is remarkable for the primitive landscape
painting that appears in an oval cartouche in the rectangular over-
mantel panel above the fireplace. The room, with contemporary
furniture, will be installed in the hall of everyday life in the American
past. It was moved from its site by the Museum’s restoration specialist,
George H. Watson. The Eleanor and Mabel Van Alstyne collection,
containing outstanding examples of folk art of the United States, was
given by Mrs. Fred Dana Marsh. In addition to the kitchen of the
George Washington Arbaugh ranch house in Siskiyou County, Calif.,
discovery of which is described on pages 118 and 138, the collections of
132 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965—-MUSEUM OF HISTORY & TECHNOLOGY

Californiana were greatly enriched by a unique figure of a hunter,
carved of redwood, holding a gun in one hand and a partridge in the
other. The wheeled platform on which it stands and its costume both
confirm the traditional belief that it was carved, in about 1850, as a
sign for a gun shop in San José.

A handsome bass viola da gamba was acquired for the collection of
musical instruments. This fine instrument, made in London, 1718, by
Barak Norman, who is regarded as the Stradivarius of the viola da
gamba, is richly carved with floral designs and an elaborate monogram
on the back and sides. A carved male figure appearson the head. In
excellent condition, this instrument, when not in use in Museum
concerts, will be on exhibit.

At a ceremony on December 18, 1964, Mrs. Lyndon B. Johnson
contributed to the First Ladies collection a most significant addition,
the satin evening dress worn by her at a state dinner at the White
House in December 1964. Presented by Mrs. Gladys P. Lehmann
was one of a group of 188 arm chairs ordered in 1818 by Henry Clay
and used in the United States House of Representatives until 1857.
The chair, upholstered in its original black horsehair, bears the label of
the maker, T. Constantine and Company of New York City. The
Honorable John W. McCormack, Speaker of the House, presented the
Museum with the flag flown at the Capitol during the time the body of
President Kennedy was lying in state.

Among the pieces of unusually fine jewelry given by Mrs. Merri-
weather Post are a necklace of diamonds and oriental emeralds and a
ring set with a large oblongemerald. Herdaughter, Mme. Léon Barzin,
gave a pair of pear-shaped diamond earrings once owned by Marie
Antionette; another daughter, Mrs. Augustus Riggs IV, presented a
seed-pearl bag with platinum frame set with rubies, emeralds, and
sapphires.

Remarkable during the past year was the increased number of
institutions and private individuals from abroad contributing to the
growth of the numismatic collections. Among them were the Hermit-
age in Leningrad; the mints of Australia, the Netherlands, Norway,
Nationalist China, and Pakistan; the banks of Guatemala, New Zea-
land, and Venezuela; the Deutsche Bundesbank; the Bayerische
Hypotheken- und Wechsel-Bank; the Australian Numismatic Society;
as well as engravers and medallic art companies from Denmark and
Italy. Frederick Hauck donated an impressive collection of 2478 gold
coins, among them 1918 United States pieces which filled many gaps
in the branch-mint issues in the national collections, and 560 foreign
gold and platinum coins as well as medals encompassing the entire
THE COLLECTIONS—GIFTS AND ADDITIONS 133

world. Other additions to the United States series came from Mrs.
F. C. C. Boyd, who gave 934 United States tokens and medalets.

From the Stack family in New York came many donations, among
which should be noted particularly a group of trial impressions of
United States coins and pay orders signed in 1795 by David Ritten-
house, first Director of the United States Mint. Mr. Willis H. du Pont
added to his previous gifts of Russian coins, formerly owned by the
Grand Duke G. Mikhailovitch, a group of 923 coins and medals in
silver and bronze encompassing the period from Catherine II to
Alexander I, Mrs. Wayte Raymond contributed over 2000 foreign
coins struck during the 19th and 20th centuries. A well-rounded
collection of coins of Nepal from the 17th through the 20th century was
presented by Mr. Paul W. Rose.

Outstanding among the philatelic objects acquired is a unique cover
and its enclosure, carried by John Wise in his balloon Jupiter, August
17, 1859, from Lafayette, Ind., on the first attempt to carry American
mail by air under authority of postal officials. ‘The cover was pur-
chased through the Charles and Rosanna Batchelor fund and the
Milton A. Holmes Memorial fund. A specialized collection of 2392
stamps of various nations commemorating Rotary International was
received from Dr. Joseph H. Kler of New Brunswick, N.J. Portions
of this collection, important for its scope and completeness, were
exhibited at a special ceremony in Washington, D.C., held to observe
the issuance of new Rotary commemorative stamps by the Republic
of China. An additional 80,000 postage stamps, with perforated
initials, were given by Mr. and Mrs. Victor J. Van Lint of Riverside,
Calif., and additional essays, proofs, and photographs of the stamps of
China were given by Mr. and Mrs. R. O. D. Hopkins of Contoocook,
N.H.

ARMED FORCES HISTORY

Significant additions to the national collection of historic warship
models, being installed by the division of naval history in the new hall
of armed forces history, include an attractive admiralty-style model
of the 44-gun H.M.S. Boston, a vessel constructed for the Royal
Navy in 1748 by Yankee shipwrights; a superb model of the United
States Revenue cutter Bear, representing that historic vessel under sail
during her late 19th-century service in Alaskan waters; and impressive
models of the nuclear submarine George Washington, the nuclear frigate
Bainbridge, and the U.S. Coast Guard cutter Vigilant.

A remarkable group of maps and nautical charts, located at Ellicott
City, Md., by Philip K. Lundeberg, includes an early hydrographic
134 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965—-MUSEUM OF HISTORY & TECHNOLOGY

survey (ca. 1828) of the harbor of Annapolis, Md.; pre-construction
maps of the proposed Chesapeake and Potomac Canal and the Erie
Canal; early 19th-century nautical charts of North American waters,
retailed by Edmund Blunt; and, most significant for the history of
exploration, a series of four manuscript charts of the southern coast of
South America prepared during the Malaspina Expedition, an official
survey conducted by the Spanish Navy in that quarter from 1798 to
1799.

The Medal of Honor and other decorations, orders, and service
medals awarded Major George G. McMurtry for conspicuous gallantry
in action with the “Lost Battalion” in World War I were presented by
Mrs. McMurtry. The Medal of Honor is the only example of this
unique decoration from the modern period, during which it has been
rarely awarded, in the national collections. From the Patent Office
came an important group of ordnance patent models that supplement
the already extensive and unique collection in the division of military
history. A rare Confederate cutlass was received from Douglas
R. Williams.

The collections of materials from underwater sites were increased
substantially during the year through field activity in Bermuda during
July and August 1965. A large collection of sherds from the Spanish
site, believed to be late 16th century, were acquired. From these frag-
ments some 15 individual shapes of redware pottery probably can be
reconstructed. A significant collection of ordnance materials recov-
ered from the site of L’Herminie, a French frigate which sank in 1838,
includes a device which may be a pill-lock firing mechanism for the
heavy guns. If this identification proves to be correct, the device will
be a very rare specimen, as this type of lock was transitional and in use
for only a brief period.

An early 18th-century iron naval cannon came to the collections as a
gift from the DACOR Corporation through its vice president, Mr.
D.L. Davison. This piece was recovered from a site, as yet unidentified,
lying on Banner Reef south of Jamaica, West Indies.
Exhibits

SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY

Two major exhibition halls were opened in their entirety, and two
others in part. The hall of civil engineering was dedicated on July 8,
1964, and the hall of American merchant shipping, on November 12,
1964. In September 1964, the refrigeration and diesel sections of
the hall of heavy machinery were opened, and in February 1965,
that portion of the hall of electricity representing communications,
power, and electrical measurement.

The division of electricity undertook a notable program of special
exhibitions. In July 1964, the exhibition “Communications in Space”
brought before the Museum’s visitors the story of communications
satellites from its beginning in 1958. The exhibit is based upon
eight operable satellites received from the American Telephone and
Telegraph Co. (Telstar I), National Aeronautics and Space Adminis-
tration (Echo I, Relay I, and Syncom II), Department of the Army
(Score and Courier), U.S. Air Force and the Lincoln Laboratory of the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology (Westford), and the American
Radio Relay League (Oscar). The exhibit is completed by an ani-
mated diorama illustrating the variety of modern communications
systems and by an exhibit relating to the Satellite Communications
Corporation. For this exhibit, which is scheduled for a 2-year showing,
an illustrated brochure was prepared.

Special exhibits were opened on the history of electrical transformers,
on early modern scientific instruments, and on the Verrazano-Narrows
bridge. The exhibit of transformers, in October 1964, was occasioned
by the loan of two historic transformers of 1885 by the Budapest
Historical Museum. Through the courtesy of the Hungarian Gov-
ernment Peter Asztalos of the Ganz Electrical Works of Budapest
presented two lectures here in connection with this exhibit. The
exhibit of early modern instruments consisted of a collection, chiefly of
17th- and 18th-century instruments, owned by David H. H. Felix
of Philadelphia.

A showing in March and April 1965 of 43 drawings and paintings
by Lili Réthi recorded the construction of the Verrazano-Narrows
bridge, 1961-65. Also shown in March 1965 was a collection of
prints from the civil engineering collections, to be circulated by the
Smithsonian traveling exhibition service.

135
136 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965—MUSEUM OF HISTORY & TECHNOLOGY

ARTS AND MANUFACTURES

In September the halls of hand and photomechanical graphic-arts
processes were opened. To the collections and exhibits transferred
from the old building were added new cases and redesigned displays,
among them a handsome free-standing installation of the diorama on
Japanese woodcutting. The first special exhibition, “Sporting and
Western Lithographs by Currier & Ives,’? was shown in the special
exhibition hall, April through May 1965. The exhibit of photographs
by Sam Falk, installed June 1964 in the exhibit hall in the Arts and
Industries building, was extended through the year.

Installation of the Tuve Van de Graaff accelerator in the hall of
nuclear energy was virtually completed. This machine was dismantled
at the division of terrestrial magnetism of the Carnegie Institution
under the supervision of M. A. Tuve and Louis Brown. ‘The supporting
columns were redesigned by the staff. The reinstallation by exhibits
specialist Abraham Richards and museum technicians John Carter
and Francis Gadson has required meticulous measurements and the
fitting of a complicated mass of instrumentation in an area difficult
of access. |

Plans were advanced for extension of the demonstration program of
the division of textiles to include spinning as well as weaving. In
January demonstrations of tapestry weaving started on an experimental
basis in the Arts and Industries building. These “‘live’”’ exhibits, even
on their present limited scale, continue to draw local residents as
well as tourists, who actively participate by asking questions.

Examples of contemporary and 19th-century hand-weaving and
needlework were lent to the Instituto de Cultura Hispanica for a
special exhibition in Madrid, “Arte Popular de America y Filipanas.” In-
cluded were a 20th-century afghan, poncho, stole, guest towel, and
overshot coverlet, as well as a 19th-century overshot coverlet, a silk
slumber throw of 1883, and an applique album quilt of 1847.

Preparation for the reopening of the textile hall in the Museum of
History and Technology is under way. One area of the new hall
will be reserved for special changing exhibits drawn from the collections
and from temporary loans.

Part of the glass gallery was opened September 18, 1964. A special
exhibition of 65 contemporary glass objects chosen by the curator and
given by Leerdam factory in Holland is being installed in it. The
opening of the ceramic hall, in production throughout the year, is
scheduled for early spring, 1966.

The popular beehive unfortunately had to be closed down during
Gallery of glass, opened October 1964, traces the history of glassmaking from
about 1500 B.C. to the present.

Installing the Tuve Van de Graaff accelerator in the future hall of nuclear
energy.
EMMA E. BAT( HELOR
AIRMAIL COLLECTION

History of the posts exhibit in newly opened hall of philately and postal history,
Museum of History and Technology. Below: ‘Transportation of the mails
exhibit.

ANS

REGS AAs, VEY

yo

tri yee La!
nrweeh (As

Die transfer press, used by the Bureau of Engraving and Printing for the
preparation of printing plates, is exhibited in the stamp production section.
Below: Country-store post office of about 1880, furnished with original
equipment, is a principal exhibit in the new hall.

BRS

Nineteenth-century screw coining press in the new hall of monetary history
and medallic art. ‘This type of press, known as early as the 16th century,
was widely used between 1700 and 1830. In the background, display of
United States coins. Below: The Honorable John W. Snyder, former
Secretary of the Treasury, and Director of the Mint Eva Adams examine
display of currencies circulated in Colonial America.

EXHIBITS 137

the winter because the colony proved too small for survival. It is
hoped to modify the hive and install a larger colony during the current
season.

CIVIL HISTORY

The numismatic displays in the Arts and Industries building were
moved to the new Museum of History and Technology, where the hall
of numismatics was opened Friday, October 23, 1964. While the
layout differs in many respects from that previously used, the general
character of the exhibit remains the same. The exhibits trace the
evolution of money within a sequence of significant historical events
and show it as an integral part of the cultural development of human
society. Additional features are the world’s largest collection of gold
coins on display and the famous United States Mint collection, which
had its inception in the late 18th century.

Among the special numismatic displays were “The Kennedy Half
Dollar,” with original mint models and designs made available by the
United States Mint; ‘‘The Austrian Empire and Its Currencies,” an
historical exhibit made possible by a recent donation from Mortimer
and Anna Neinken; and “‘A Selection of Contemporary Artistic Medals
from Europe,” featuring prominent artists from France, Germany,
Greece, and Italy.

The Reifenberg collection, illustrating Israel’s ancient history through
its coins, was displayed from November 1964 through January 1965.
Starting with two exceedingly rare pieces struck in Judaea under
Persian rule, the exhibit, featuring a virtually complete series of ancient
Judaean coins, was made possible through the cooperation of Mrs.
Esther Reifenberg of Jerusalem, and Mr. M. Avida, Director, Cultural
Relations Department of the Ministry for Foreign Affairs, Jerusalem,
Israel. .

A temporary display, arranged through the courtesy of the Argentina
Mint, illustrated coins and paper currencies of Argentina and included
master hubs for the silver peso of 1881, Argentina’s first national coin;
the original model for the Liberty-head appearing on many of its
coins; a wooden block for the 1000-peso banknote—the first issue made
at the Buenos Aires Mint in 1889; as well as color proofs for projects
of banknotes.

The first international numismatic display ever held in the United
States was organized by V. Clain-Stefanelli in August 1964, on the
occasion of the convention of the American Numismatic Association
in Cleveland. The displays from 20 countries represented contribu-
tions from 41 exhibitors.
138 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965—-MUSEUM OF HISTORY & TECHNOLOGY

The hall of philately and postal history was opened September 18,
1964, after ceremonies at which more than 500 guests were addressed
by assistant postmaster general Ralph Nicholson and James Conlon,
chief, currency and stamp manufacturing, Bureau of Engraving and
Printing. The new exhibits include more than 70 major units dealing
with the history of the world’s posts, United States stamp production,
transportation of the mails, United States and foreign postal stationery,
and the history of revenue stamps and stamped paper. Among them
are a comprehensive selection of stamps of the world from the national
collection, exhibited in 473 pull-out frames; the re-creation of a country-
store post office, ca. 1880, furnished with original equipment and fix-
tures; 15th- and 16th-century correspondence carried by the posts of
the Republic of Venice; papyrus letters from Egypt; and a cover with its
enclosure, carried by John Wise in his balloon Jupiter in 1859 from
Lafayette, Ind., on the first attempt to transport mail by air under
authorization of postal officials. The new hall, developed under
former curators George T. Turner and Francis J. McCall and the pres-
ent associate curator in charge, Carl H. Scheele, is the only permanent
exhibition in the United States which presents a comprehensive and
large-scale survey of postal history and stamp production.

A special exhibition of stamps from the Federal Republic of West
Germany was opened in April 1965 by His Excellency Heinrich
Knappstein, the German Ambassador. Postal issues of the recent
post-war period displayed included stamps honoring the late John F.
Kennedy and the German resistance to the Nazis during World War II.

Inclusion of a California post-gold-rush ranch-house kitchen in the hall
of every day life in the American past became possible when an appro-
priate room was found in Siskiyou County, Calif. Remarkable for never
having been disturbed since it was constructed about 1862, and for
bearing its original blue paint, the kitchen of tongue-and-groove
boards was dismantled by George H. Watson, specialist in the restora-
tion of old structures, and his assistant, Charles H. Rowell. Not only
was the interior woodwork removed, but also the peeled cedar post
rafters and pine roofers from the roof overhead and the heavy pine
floor joists and stone piers supporting them. All were reconstructed in
the exhibit hall by Watson and his crew so that the visitor views the
room with its structure above and below, as though looking into a
cross-section of the house. The kitchen is equipped with furnishings
and utensils of the period collected in California and originally used
there. On the other side of the kitchen is a temporary exhibit, “The
Chinese in California,’ and nearby are prints and paintings lent by
Joan Pearson Watkins. The kitchen and its associated exhibits, con-
EXHIBITS 139

ceived and planned by C. Malcolm Watkins, were opened on May 7,
1965, with a ceremony and reception sponsored jointly by the Cali-
fornia State Society of D.C. and the Smithsonian. For this occasion,
the historic gold nugget found by James Marshall at Sutter’s Mill,
which inspired the great California gold rush, was specially exhibited.

An exhibit of furniture from the Surrender Room of the McLean
House at Appomattox, Va., marked the 100th anniversary of the
surrender on April 9, 1865. An exhibition, opened May 29, 1965,
marking the 200th anniversary of the Virginia Resolves against the
Stamp Act, includes sections on the passage of the Stamp Act, the
colonial reaction to it, and its eventual repeal. The exhibit will con-
tinue into the bicentennial years of these events, through 1965 into
1966.

“The Victorian American,” a temporary exhibit of prints from the
Harry T. Peters lithography collection, was organized by Peter C.
Welsh to illustrate the national character of Americans during the
Victorian era.

ARMED FORCES HISTORY

Completion of exhibits for the armed forces halls has occupied the
entire staff of the department.

The preparation of General George Washington’s headquarters tent,
a unique specimen in an excellent state of preservation, considering its
age, proved an unusual and exacting task (cleaning, repairing, and
preparing the tent itself for exhibition are described on p. 125). An
undertent of unchemically treated linen was constructed and mounted
over a chemically inert metal frame. The original tent was then placed
over the whole with no resultant stress on any seams or fibers. One
end of the tent was opened to present a period-room display using con-
temporary camp furniture and objects. The whole was enclosed in a
glass case.

Completion of the extensive exhibit of the Continental gondola
Philadelphia marked a memorable stage in the long history of that re-
markable relic of the American Revolution. A system of ramps and
protective railings enables visitors to view this heavily armed gunboat
from all elevations, while ensuring her physical security. Nearby are
cases of artifacts recovered from the Philadelphia site on Lake Champlain,
as well as a series of maps illustrating Benedict Arnold’s Northern Cam-
paign of 1776, in which this historic man-of-war served.
Visitor Services

An important and extensive program for utilizing the Museum’s
ancient instruments in a series of concerts was initiated by Mrs. Cynthia
Adams Hoover. In these activities she has been assisted by museum
specialist Jay Scott Odell.

Winter concert activities included a program of music of the 1860’s
played on brass instruments of that period from the collections. The
musical arrangements were taken directly from the band books of the
Third New Hampshire Regiment of the period (at popular request,
this music was played again in a concert on the Mall). The English
Consort of Viols played at the Smithsonian in November. The con-
cert by Frans Brueggen, recorder, and Gustav Leonhardt, playing on
the Museum’s restored 1745 Dulcken harpsichord, was considered by
local music critics as one of the highlights of the Washington musical
year. In December, the Smithsonian and the Library of Congress
were hosts to the national meetings of the American Musicological
Society and the College Music Society, for which a concert featuring
Carissimi’s Oratorio “‘Jonas” was arranged.

Music on the Mall was initiated in May on the Museum’s terrace
with the National Symphony Orchestra. ‘The Honorable Adlai Steven-
son, Ambassador to the United Nations, narrated Aaron Copland’s
“Lincoln Portrait,’ and the young pianist André Watts played Saint-
Saens’ Concerto No. 2. Tower music was a weekly feature in summer.
Played by five wind musicians from the top of the north portico of the
Renwick-designed Smithsonian building, it began the summer ‘Tuesday
evening music series in early June. These new developments have
materially changed the atmosphere of the Mall lying between the
Smithsonian’s buildings. Mrs. Hoover collaborated in the extensive
research leading to the design and construction of a new music platform
and background shell for the outdoor concerts on the terrace.

Several lectures and forums were sponsored in the department of
civil history. Stella Mary Newton, advisor to the restoration depart-
ment of the National Gallery, London, gave a lecture ‘‘Social Impli-
cations in the Costumes in Hogarth’s Paintings.”” John Harris, keeper
of drawings of the Royal Institute of British Architects, lectured on
‘William Kent.’ Scott Symons, formerly assistant-curator-in-charge
of the Canadiana collections, The Royal Ontario Museum, lectured
publicly on “French Canadiana Versus the American Dream” and
gave an intramuseum seminar on the same subject. (Mr. Symons also
spent three weeks in residence as a visiting scholar studying the
Museum’s furniture collections.)

140
VISITOR SERVICES 141

In association with the Naval Historical Foundation, the division
of naval history inaugurated an annual series of lectures on naval and
maritime history. In November 1964, the noted German naval
historian Vizeadmiral Friedrich C. Ruge presented an illustrated
lecture, “Rommel and the Invasion of Western Europe, 1944,” before
a capacity audience of military and naval historians. As former
naval advisor to the colorful field marshal, Ruge described Rommel’s
dogged but unsuccessful efforts to concentrate German armored
strength on the Normandy coast on the eve of Operation ‘“‘Overlord.”
In March 1965, the division again joined with the Foundation in
sponsoring a lecture, ‘““The Defense of Trade in World Wars I and
II,”’ by the distinguished British historian, Captain Stephen W. Roskill,
R.N. Drawing not only upon his voluminous official history, The
War at Sea, but also on his recent researches on British naval policy
between the wars, Roskill analyzed the nigh-disastrous Allied under-
estimation of a renewed U-boat threat in 1939 and presented a critical
evaluation of the role once again played by the convoy system in
safeguarding Allied sea communications.
| «
ih Bat nate 14, OTIELy,
1 Lilie Read

HORNED wat: Mortelesan Te air ser3. leore Vi -octt titnve i

hab ix torr tecohwes (canine ine Deine
“fever! anwar’ bated coe Pawn aacksyayh a Dae x 2

DART barker gpl tbe ober he teal
syd! AAO P Coctoms reat W Jo cols vel ant bere ae
wairot ad win oine Tea ee, easel ten
wiser Wadtinaeeh) nai baler flee lwitzoloot®
‘ewe et Hevea aries of ape ipigaes
Sibaoliv™ oni To ayes) ito! wanes othr rane
ab mobobsrny orb alse baniog alee) aie Rashi
bea T eae! DROVE Wh Beil’ Yoana eth? BIS ho’
MimOSE SAP qonkytre: aisren) reracsuitl Heiaiytt biti eee

CANT KBE Pelee’ econ lenutooceiil Hee eR ae
otlog Tevet Helite iy excorkiet 399) ail ao ‘ook a
Sisbad boiiA aioueiaih-rale ole Deaehie ee
“PROBING S DASA TET hah Rh Cf i yeeros iL bare
ceo) ay towstoo ee yet bey alep aingay Sorrotehers

ecorsBabitserl non 89% be
j ggn' A 7 AK) | ty Rigi a ve uty ig NW

i cy

t } aa} i. Od
1h R ;
; ; ak ‘bY Wet
\ q ‘
pu lig ¢
A ;
‘
? ae "
\ i} "4
i
ny
;
i tT Wt tle A |
. d ‘4 @ t
:
7 x ry an oo
eg i : ‘i, ¥ , "1 * ie 2
fai i Wh » § OLA RED LW FT Ey ; ; niih tty
~ | aa ;
eRe) te Ge ia) APOE thy ee Lvs ee
aah Merial COTE: SRAM, HET ee

ee, batrletinnyn gratle thea wane Riya BTN e yx
pattie ae (Neat? ‘i pcan Veins, she . Nth
pave py pact Ruri REG a) tanh aay inne hie wu es phate | A Cy :
puntay’ {tna iat ee omen Ait We a eae 3
Who's ie carly else) Ne ki hi

International Exchange Service

i”

fyi

soiviee syasioxd isnoisi
International Exchange Service
J. A. Cotiins, Chief

The original plan of organization of the Smithsonian Institution
provided for a system of exchange of current publications which would
afford the Smithsonian Institution the most ready means of entering
into friendly relations and correspondence with all the learned societies
in the world and of enriching the Smithsonian library with the current
transactions and proceedings of foreign institutions.

When the first of the Smithsonian’s long series of scientific publica-
tions was issued, copies were sent to scientific and learned institutions
abroad. In return, the Smithsonian Institution received many
valuable publications from foreign institutions. To continue this de-
sirable international exchange of scientific information, the Smithso-
nian Institution appointed agents in a number of foreign countries to
distribute the publications received from the Smithsonian Institution
and to forward to the Smithsonian Institution the publications received
from the foreign institutions.

In 1851 the privilege of transmitting publications through the
Smithsonian Institution to other countries, and of receiving publica-
tions from foreign institutions in return, was extended to other insti-
tutions in the United States. This opportunity to distribute their
publications abroad was eagerly accepted and the system grew so
rapidly that today most Government agencies, many universities,
and scientific organizations representing every State in the Union
utilize the International Exchange Service.

Among the many colleges and universities transmitting publications
through the Service during the past fiscal year were the following:
University of California, Columbia University, Cornell University,
Harvard College, University of Illinois, Indiana University, University
of Kansas, University of Michigan, University of Oregon, University
of Pennsylvania, Princeton University, University of Texas, University
of Virginia, and Yale University.

In fiscal year 1965, the International Exchange Service received for
transmission 989,779 pounds of publications from foreign and domestic
sources. This was a slight decrease from the preceding year. Of the
amount received, 115,537 pounds were from foreign sources for dis-
tribution to addressees in the United States. A strike of the long-
shoremen on the east coast of the United States affected the operation

145
789-427—66——21
146 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965

THE NUMBER AND WEIGHT OF PACKAGES RECEIVED FROM
FOREIGN AND DOMESTIC SOURCES FOR TRANSMISSION
THROUGH THE INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGE SERVICE FISCAL
YEAR 1965.

Received by the

For transmission abroad Smithsonian for
by the Smithsonian distribution in the
Classification United States

Number of | Weight in | Number of | Weight in
packages pounds | packages | pounds

U.S. parliamentary documents re-

ceived for transmission abroad . . 823,051 | 340, 275 — —
Publications received from foreign

sources for U.S. parliamentary

AC CGTESSEES Vn ta eto eens —_ —_ 8, 344 12, 081
U.S. departmental Acaimens re-

ceived for transmission abroad . . 315, 841 | 290,775 — —
Publications received from foreign

sources for U.S. departmental

AG GTESSEESy ey eieM enna es ‘ —_ —_ 7, 005 20, 933
Miscellaneous scientific and heerary

publications received for trans-

mission abroad ..... : 169, 558 | 243,192 — —
Miscellaneous scientific and erat

publications received from abroad

for distribution in the United

Statestee ete secant eee ene — — 47, 514 82, 523
rrotallwwe’., 200 0M. . .| 1,308,450 | 874, 242 62, 863 115, 537
Total packages received . . .| 1,371, 313 = — —
Total pounds received .. . — — = 989, 779

of the Service from the middle of December 1964 until March 1965.
Another strike in June by the Maritime unions against some of the
steamship lines delayed the forwarding of publications to many countries.

Publications were received from more than 350 different organizations,
institutions, Government bureaus, Congressional committees, agricul-
tural experiment stations, and individuals during the year for trans-
mission to more than 100 different countries.

Publications weighing 624,125 pounds, 70 percent of the total
weight received for transmission abroad, were forwarded by ocean
freight at a cost to the Smithsonian Institution of $36,856, or approx-
imately 5.9 cents per pound.
INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGE SERVICE 147

Addressed packages of publications are mailed directly to the intended
addressees in the countries that do not have exchange bureaus. During
the past fiscal year packages of addressed publications weighing 259,354
pounds—30 percent of the total weight received for transmission
abroad—were mailed to the intended addressees at a cost to the Smith-
sonian Institution of $61,039, or approximately 23.5 cents per pound.

Listed below are the names of the foreign exchange bureaus to which
the International Exchange Service forwards addressed packages of
publications for distribution to the intended recipients.

List OF EXCHANGE SERVICES

Austria: Austrian National Library, Vienna.

Betcium: Service des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque Royale de
Belgique, Bruxelles.

Cutna: National Central Library, Taipei, Taiwan.

CzECHOSLOVAKIA: Bureau of International Exchanges, University Library,
Prague.

Denmark: Institut Danois des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliothégque Royale,
Copenhagen.

Ecypr: Government Press, Publications Office, Bulaq, Cairo.

Finuanp: Library of the Scientific Societies, Helsinki.

FRANCE: Service des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque Nationale, Paris.

Germany (Eastern): Deutsche Staatsbibliothek, Berlin.

Germany (Western): Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft, Bad Godesberg.

Huncary: Service Hongrois des Echanges Internationaux, Orszagos Széchenyi
Konyvtar, Budapest.

Inp1A: Government Printing and Stationery Office, Bombay.

Inpones!A: Minister of Education, Djakarta.

IsRAEL: Jewish National and University Library, Jerusalem.

Iraty: Ufficio degli Scambi Internazionali, Ministero della Pubblica Istruzione,
Rome.

Japan: Division for Interlibrary Services, National Diet Library, Tokyo.

Korea: National Central Library, Seoul.

NETHERLANDS: International Exchange Bureau of the Netherlands, Royal Li-
brary, The Hague.

New Soutu Wates: Public Library of New South Wales, Sydney.

New ZEALAND: General Assembly Library, Wellington.

Norway: Service Norvégien des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque de
P Université Royale, Oslo.

Puiwippines: Bureau of Public Libraries, Department of Education, Manila.

Potanp: Service Polonais des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque
Nationale, Warsaw.

PortuGAL: Servico Portugués de Trocas Internacionais, Biblioteca Nacional,
Lisbon.
148 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965

QuEENSLAND: Bureau of International Exchange of Publications, Chief Secre-
tary’s Office, Brisbane.

Repusiic oF SourH ArFricA: Government Printing and Stationery Office,
Cape Town.!

Rumania: International Exchange Service, Biblioteca Centrala de Stat,
Bucharest.

Soutu AusTRALIA: South Australian Government Exchanges Bureau, Govern-
ment Printing and Stationery Office, Adelaide.

Spain: Servicio National de Canje de Publicaciones, Biblioteca Nacional,
Madrid.!

SweDEN: Kungliga Biblioteket, Stockholm.

SWITZERLAND: Service Suisse des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque
Centrale Fédérale, Berne.

Tasmanla: Secretary of the Premier, Hobart.

Turkey: National Library, Ankara.

Union oF Soviet Soctauist Repustics: Bureau of Book Exchange, State Lenin
Library, Moscow.

Victoria: State Library of Victoria, Melbourne.

WESTERN AUSTRALIA: State Library, Perth.

Yucostavia: Bibliografski Institut FNRJ, Belgrade.

FOREIGN EXCHANGE OF GOVERNMENTAL DOCUMENTS

The Smithsonian Institution received during the fiscal year 719,901
publications weighing 257,355 pounds for transmission to the recipients
of full sets of official U.S. Government publications, and 92,512 publi-
cations weighing 36,488 pounds for transmission to the recipients of
partial sets. The recipients of full sets receive copies of all of the official
publications, while the recipients of partial sets receive a selected list of
the official publications.

RECIPIENTS OF THE FULL SETs

ARGENTINA: Divisién Biblioteca, Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores y Culto,
Buenos Aires.

AusTRALIA: National Library of Australia, Canberra.
New Souty Wates: Public Library of New South Wales, Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Parliamentary Library, Brisbane.
SoutH AusTRALIA: Public Library of South Australia, Adelaide.
TAsMANIA: Parliamentary Library, Hobart.
Victoria: State Library of Victoria, Melbourne.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: State Library, Perth.

1 Change in name.
INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGE SERVICE 149

Austria: Administrative Library, Federal Chancellery, Vienna.
Beucium: Service Belge des Echanges Internationaux, Bruxelles.
Brazi.: Biblioteca Nacional, Rio de Janiero.
Burma: Government Book Depot, Rangoon.
Canapa: Library of Parliament, Ottawa.
Manirosa: Provincial Library, Winnipeg.
Ontario: Legislative Library, Toronto.
Quesec: Library of the Legislature of the Province of Quebec.
SASKATCHEWAN: Legislative Library, Regina.
Cryton: Department of Information, Government of Ceylon, Colombo,
CHILE: Biblioteca Nacional, Santiago.
Cura: National Central Library, Taipei, Taiwan.
National Chengchi University, Taipei, Taiwan.
Cotompia: Biblioteca Nacional, Bogota.
Costa Rica: Biblioteca Nacional, San José.
Cusa: Direccién de Organismos Internacionales, Ministerio de Relaciones
Exteriores, Habana.
CzECHOSLOVAKIA: University Library, Prague.
DeEnmMARE: Institut Danois des Echanges Internationaux, Copenhagen.
Ecypt: Bureau des Publications, Ministére des Finances, Cairo.
FINLAND: Parliamentary Library, Helsinki.
France: Bibliothéque Nationale, Paris.
GERMANY: Deutsche Staatsbibliothek, Berlin.
Free University of Berlin, Berlin-Dahlem.
Parliamentary Library, Bonn.
Great BRITAIN:
British Museum, London.
London School of Economics and Political Science. Depository of the
London County Council.)
Inp1a: National Library, Calcutta.
Central Secretariat Library, New Delhi.
Parliament Library, New Delhi.
InponesIA: Ministry for Foreign Affairs, Djakarta.
IRELAND: National Library of Ireland, Dublin.
IsRAEL: State Archives and Library, Hakirya, Jerusalem.
Iraty: Ministero della Pubblica Istruzione, Rome.
Japan: National Diet Library, Tokyo.?
Mexico: Secretaria de Relaciones Exteriores, Departamento de Informacion
para el Extranjero, México, D.F.
NETHERLANDS: Royal Library, The Hague.
New ZEALAND: General Assembly Library, Wellington.
Norway: University Library, Oslo.
Peru: Seccién de Propaganda y Publicaciones, Ministerio de Relaciones
Exteriores, Lima.
Puiiprines: Bureau of Public Libraries, Department of Education, Manila.

2 Receives two sets.
150 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965

PorTUGAL: Biblioteca Nacional, Lisbon.

REPUBLIC OF SouTH Arrica: State Library, Pretoria, Transvaal.

Spain: Biblioteca Nacional, Madrid.

SWEDEN: Kungliga Biblioteket, Stockholm.

SWITZERLAND: Bibliothéque Centrale Fédérale, Berne.

Turkey: National Library, Ankara.

Union oF Soviet SoctAuistT Repustics: All-Union Lenin Library, Moscow.
Unitep Nations: Library of the United Nations, Geneva, Switzerland.
Urucuay: Oficina de Canje Internacional de Publicaciones, Montevideo.
VENEZUELA: Biblioteca Nacional, Caracas.

Yucostavia: Bibliografski Institut FNRJ, Belgrade.”

RECIPIENTS OF THE PARTIAL SETs

AFGHANISTAN: Library of the Afghan Academy, Kabul.
Be.cium: Bibliothéque Royale, Bruxelles.
Bo.ivia: Biblioteca del Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores y Culto, La Paz.
Brazit: Minas Gerats: Departmento Estadul de Estatistica, Belo Horizonte.
BritisH GuIANA: Government Secretary’s Office, Georgetown, Demerara.
Campopia: Les Archives et Bibliotheque Nationale, Phnom-Penh.
CanapDA: ALBERTA: Provincial Library, Edmonton.
BritisH Co.tumpsia: Provincial Library, Victoria.
New Brunswick: Legislative Library, Fredericton.
NEWFOUNDLAND: Department of Provincial Affairs, St. John’s.
Nova Scotia: Provincial Secretary of Nova Scotia, Halifax.
Dominican Repus.ic: Bibloteca de la Universidad de Santo Domingo, Santo
Domingo.
Ecuapor: Biblioteca Nacional, Quito.
Ex Satvapor: Biblioteca Nacional, San Salvador.
Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, San Salvador.
GREECE: National Library, Athens.
GuATEMALA: Bioblioteca Nacional, Guatemala.
Harti: Bibliothéque Nationale, Port-au-Prince.
Honpuras: Biblioteca Nacional, Tegucigalpa.
Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Tegucigalpa.
IcELAND: National Library, Reykjavik.
INDIA:
Bompay: Sachivalaya Central Library, Bombay.
Brnar: Revenue Department, Patna.
KERALA: Kerala Legislature Secretariat, ‘Trivandrum.
UTTAR PRADESH:
University of Allahabad, Allahabad.
Secretariat Library, Lucknow.
West BencAt: Library, West Bengal Legislative Secretariat, Assembly
House, Calcutta.

2 Receive two sets
INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGE SERVICE 151

Iran: Imperial Ministry of Education, Tehran.

IrAQ: Public Library, Baghdad.

Jamaica: Colonial Secretary, Kingston.
University College of the West Indies, St. Andrew.

Lesanon: American University of Beirut, Beirut.

LisERIA: Department of State, Monrovia.

MataysiA: Federal Secretariat, Federation of Malaysia, Kuala Lumpur
National Library, Singapore.!

Matta: Minister for the Treasury, Valletta.

Nicaracua: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Managua.

PakisTAN: Central Secretariat Library, Karachi.

Panama: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Panama.

Paracuay: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriors, Seccién Biblioteca, Asuncién.

PuitipPines: House of Representatives, Manila.

ScotLanp: National Library of Scotland, Edinburgh.

Supan: University of Khartoum, Khartoum.!

TuatLanp: National Library, Bangkok.

Viet-Nam: Direction des Archives et Bibliothéques Nationales, Saigon.

INTERPARLIAMENTARY EXCHANGE OF THE OFFICIAL
JOURNALS

There are being sent on exchange through the International Ex-
change Service 110 copies of the daily issues of the Congressional Record
and 88 copies of the daily issues of the Federal Register. Listed below
are the names and addresses of the recipients of the official journals.

RECIPIENTS OF THE CONGRESSIONAL RECORD AND FEDERAL REGISTER

AucEriA: Direction de la Documentation, Ministére de l’Orientation, Algiers.‘ 5
ARGENTINA: Biblioteca del Poder Judicial, Mendoza.?
Direccién General del Boletin Oficial e Imprentas, Buenos Aires.
Camara de Diputados Oficina de Informaciédn Parliamentaria, Buenos
Aires.
AusTRALIA: National Library of Australia, Canberra.
New Soutu Watgs: Library of Parliament of New South Wales, Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Chief Secretary’s Office, Brisbane.
Victoria: State Library of Victoria, Melbourne.’
WEsTERN AusTRALIA: Library of Parliament of Western Australia, Perth.
Be.crum: Bibliothéque du Parlement, Palais de la Nation, Brussels.*
Braziu: Biblioteca da Camara dos Deputados, Brasilia, D.F.+
Biblioteca do Senado Federal, Brasilia.! 4

1 Change in name. 3 Federal Register only. 4 Congressional Record only.
5 Added during the year.
152 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965

Burunp!: Département des Affaires Juridiques et de Contentieux, Secrétariat
d’Fitat a la Justice, Bujumbura.? 5
Cameopia: Ministry of Information, Phnom-Penh.
Cameroon: Imprimerie Nationale, Yaoundé.®
Canapa: Clerk of the Senate, Houses of Parliament, Ottawa.
Library of Parliament, Ottawa.
Cryton: Ceylon Ministry of Defense and External Affairs, Colombo.
Cute: Biblioteca del Congreso Nacional, Santiago.*
Cuina: Legislative Yuan, Taipei, Taiwan.
Taiwan Provincial Assembly, Taichung, Taiwan
Cupa: Biblioteca Publica Panamericana, Habana.®
CzecHosLovakiA: Ceskoslovenska Akademie Ved, Prague.*
Ecuapor, Archivo-Biblioteca del Poder Legislativo, Quito. 3 §
Ecypt: Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Egyptian Government, Cairo.‘
Fintan: Library of the Parliament, Helsinki.‘
France: Bibliothéque Assemblée Nationale, Paris.
Bibliothéque Conseil de la République, Paris.
Library, Organization for European Economic Cooperation, Paris.‘
Bibliothéque du Conseil de Europe, Strasbourg.4
Service de la Documentation Etrangére Assemblée Nationale, Paris.‘
GaBson: Secretary General, Assemblée Nationale, Libreville.‘
Germany: Amerika Institut der Universitat Mtinchen, Miinchen.
Archiv, Deutscher Bundestag, Bonn.
Bibliothek des Instituts fiir Weltwirtschaft an der Universitat Kiel,
Kiel-Wik.
Bibliothek Hessischer Landtag, Wiesbaden.
Deutsches Institut fiir Rechtswissenschaft, Potsdam-Babelsberg II.?
Deutscher Bundesrat, Bonn.‘
Deutscher Bundestag, Bonn.!
Hamburgisches Welt-Wirtschafts-Archiv, Hamburg.
Staatsbibliothek der Stiftung Preussischer Kulturbestiz, Berlin-
Dahlem.! 4 6
Great Brirain: Department of Printed Books, British Museum, London.
House of Commons Library, London.
N.P.P. Warehouse, H.M. Stationery Office, London.’ 7
Printed Library of the Foreign Office, London.
Royal Institute of International Affairs, London.*
GreEECE: Bibliothéque Chambre des Députés, Hellénique, Athens.
GuaATEMALA: Biblioteca de la Asamblea Legislativa, Guatemala.
Hartt: Bibliothéque Nationale, Port-au-Prince.
Honpuras: Biblioteca del Congreso Nacional, Tegucigalpa.
Huncary: Orszagos Széchenyi Konyvtar, Budapest.

1 Change inname. 3 Federal Register only.
4 Congressional Record only. 5 Added during the year.
6 Three copies. 7 Two copies.
INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGE SERVICE 153

Inp1: Civil Secretariat Library, Lucknow, United Provinces.*
Jammu and Kashmir Constituent Assembly, Srinagar.‘
Legislative Assembly, Government of Assam, Shillong.‘
Legislative Assembly Library, Lucknow, United Provinces.
Kerala Legislature Secretariat, Trivandrum.*
Madras State Legislature, Madras.!
Parliament Library, New Delhi.
Gokhale Institute of Politics and Economics, Poona.‘
IRELAND: Dail Eireann, Dublin.‘
IsRAEL: Library of the Knesset, Jerusalem.
Iraty: Biblioteca Camera dei Deputati, Rome.
Biblioteca del Senato della Republica, Rome.
International Institute for the Unification of Private Law, Rome.
Periodicals Unit, Food and Agriculture Organization of the United
Nations, Rome.’
Ivory Coast: Chef des Services Legislatifs, Assemblee Nationale, Abidjan.*
Japan: Library of the National Diet, Tokyo.
Ministry of Finance, Tokyo.
Jorpan: Parliament of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, Amman.+*
Korea: Library, National Assembly, Seoul.
Kying Hee University, Seoul. + §
LuxemsBourc: Assemblée Commune de la C.E.C.A., Luxembourg.
Mexico: Direcci6n General de Informacién, Secretaria de Governacidén,
México, D.F.
Biblioteca Benjamin Franklin, México, D.F.
AcuascALIENTEs: Gobernador del Estado de Aguascalientes, Aguas-
calientes.
Baja Ca.irornia: Gobierno del Estado de Baja California, Mexicali.
CAMPECHE: Gobernador del Estado de Campeche.
Cutapas: Gobernador del Estado de Chiapas, Tuxtla Gutiérrez.
Cutnuanua: Gobernador del Estado de Chihuahua, Chihuahua.
CoauuILa: Periddico Oficial del Estado de Coahuila, Palacio de
Gobierno, Saltillo.
Coxima: Gobernador del Estado de Colima, Colima.
Guanajuato: Secretaria General de Gobierno del Estado, Guanajuato.
Jautsco: Biblioteca del Estado, Guadalajara.
México: Gaceta del Gobierno, Toluca.
Micuoac&n: Secretaria General de Gobierno del Estado de Michoacan,
Morelia.
More vos: Palacio de Gobierno, Cuernavaca.
Nayarit: Gobernador de Nayarit, Tepic.
Nuevo LE6n: Biblioteca del Estado, Monterrey.
Oaxaca: Periddico Oficial, Palacio de Gobierno, Oaxaca.*
Puesta: Secretaria General de Gobierno, Puebla.
QueRéTARO: Secretaria General de Gobierno, Seccién de Archivo,
Querétaro.
StnaLoa: Direccién del Periddico Oficial ‘El Estado de Sinaloa, Culiacan.
154 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965

Sonora: Gobernador del Estado de Sonora, Hermosillo.
TAMAULIPAS: Secretaria General de Gobierno, Victoria.
VeRAcRUZ: Gobernador del Estado de Veracruz, Departamento de
Gobernacién y Justicia, Jalapa.
YucatrAn: Gobernador del Estado de Yucatan, Mérida.
NETHERLANDS: Koninklijke Bibliotheek, ‘The Hague.3
New ZEALAND: General Assembly Library, Wellington.
NicERIA: Office of the Clerk of the Legislature, Enugu.+*
Office of the Western Nigeria Legislature, Ibadan.*
Clerk to the Regional Legislature, Mid-West Region, Benin City. 3 5
Norway: Library of the Norwegian Parliament, Oslo.
PakIsTAN: Secretary, Provincial Assembly West Pakistan, Lahore.+*
National Assembly of Pakistan, Rawalpindi. * 5
Panama: Biblioteca Nacional, Panama City.*
PuitipPines: House of Representatives, Manila.
Po.anp: Kancelaria Rady Panstwa, Biblioteka Sejmowa, Warsaw.
RepusLic oF SourH AFrica: Cape of Good Hope: Library of Parliament,
Cape Town.
Transkei: Legislative Assembly, Umtata. * 6
Transvaal: State Library, Pretoria
RuopesiA: Legislative Assembly, Lusaka. ! 3
Rumania: Biblioteca Centrala de Stat RPR, Bucharest.
Rwanpa: Service de la Législation, Cabinet du Président, Kigali. 3
SENEGAL: Secrétaire-Général, Assemblée Nationale, Dakar.*
SreRRA LEONE: Office of the Clerk, House of Representatives, Freetown.+*
Spain: Boletin Oficial del Estado, Presidencia del Gobierno, Madrid.*
SwEDEN: Universitetsbiblioteket, Uppsala.
SwIrzERLAND: International Labour Office, Geneva. * 7
Library, United Nations, Geneva.
Tancanyika: Library, University College, Dar es Salaam.+*
Toco: Ministére d’Etat, de l’Interieur, de |’ Information et de la Presse, Lome.
Ucanpa: National Assembly of Uganda, Parliament House, Kampala.*
Union oF Soviet Sociauisr Repusrics: Fundamental’niia Biblioteka
Obshchestvennykh Nauk, Moscow.
Upper Votta: Président de la Commission des Affaires Sociales et Culturelles,
Assemblée Nationale, Ouagadougou.*
Chef de Cabinet, Présidence, Ouagadougou.?
Urucuay: Diario Oficial, Calle Florida 1178, Montevideo.
Yucostavis: Bibliografski Institut FNRJ, Belgrade.’

Libraries, scientific societies, educational institutions, and individuals
may transmit publications through the International Exchange
Service to other countries if they are being sent on exchange or as gifts.
The publications must be packaged and addressed to the intended re-
cipients. Transportation charges to the Smithsonian Institution must

Footnotes: see p. 152.
INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGE SERVICE 155

be prepaid. There is no charge to the sender for the transportation
charges from the Smithsonian Institution to the intended addressees.

Packages of publications are accepted for transmission to addressees
in all countries except to the mainland of China, North Korea, and
Communist-controlled areas of Viet-Nam. Packages of publications
from domestic sources intended for addressees in the United States or
in a territory subject to the jurisdiction of the United States are not
accepted for transmission.

The work of the International Exchange Service serves as a means of
developing and executing, in part, the broad and comprehensive
objective of the Smithsonian Institution—“‘the diffusion of knowledge.”
Over the years the Service has played a proud role in helping to
promote the rapid growth of science by facilitating the international
exchange of ideas. Libraries and learned institutions through-
out the world have been enriched by the publications received through
the Service from many institutions in the United States, and, in turn,
the libraries and learned institutions of the United States have bene-
fited from the publications received from the institutions in other
countries.
a MOLVA, aR aE

HOMAGE ON), atthe nabtroe al’ oy mae a
pia bbs bobmadah opi omarion, aeinte oils | i
mnnnibbsot us cigehwanei i cbataaan 306" scobsnoildbl
bits. .mababuls ot: (sli, tol bpaleigns adi aot sq0088
anonsoliling jo wumios' cmeMeery We adore ae
“HS ese hotter LP onlt Hi eSeSIHHS + Jt bSbASiny ase eis
od OMe? aosaid bait Psa by Aoltstbenn Coty of ioajelard
Se a } Tcnaiiat, Rae aki sit
lo Lecter 24 Yay iss saiv198. Spain Iaaide cap a
Ceara s hag baord, 24d} S18 Oi, ergo}
ou bol won to mn fact ods —inninitent nstqnecl int
ot gaigiad af sles birors 4, bovalq.esd vsoivrese ooh
Innofinarsisti.ady mcinssiliont, eG: oane@ios 1a: cworg BE qa
sigwords ssotuiitniti-~n borvepal dortdy waked ET
“gvoid? bavises ettornndliciny oi ty ed bail trissmed S
ynetat basse? betta Deh ni iaotudienl veBe
ened tend ataiZ b otic! T ods Io emoijutiteat boersal §
tdi ai wlomustnea? a Paitertt borisoas cniltag

Poe eth |

Ptah arst wt [ Ohi Lobe habe ere hi pes lt

Chg: ahewiie Conia chs eee Yee LN ee a
‘ a sews ed dd Prather, Coarse Gea Peete, K ait
Spares Watitit | tne Wie ses Peg oe AT APL pticbvadlly:,| 1 alee

; . d ¢
7 et a ve CH cil id de Tu fee oven

Pi Mai iret Cathoi) abet ir 126, Pefindonidy det < pone ‘Si,
GFA iu llogted, Gp _
dante torn, Dagearl At £3 ee et TAAL
Neen
nye. ty eee vhs ; eM Pwe TS: ete
i veri tay Sonar MA Pee vera needs
7 ici Ears iota, Yo Niko Daa
ny hye eaVis7 Ti het © i FA ta + ete
elu tyne ety Nixib, dada a
Ripe Whee Pyptadinnt ha be Cone eaesint Li Ae ely die
Ric ehh Mitral (yp genreste Leienar 4 Fs
AHO phen discs bakes hiding Tw siren a2 et
NEA Maine Waly Co a ayn 1978 Di onecviclesy, i
Oa Ve Pats Pode we aia: SIA}: Beekyr mis, a e 4 re

os ie
bibs hey, Nedhens4 hfe chee hey oe capt or
uy ‘Great COST Ome (Cire ta I 2)
Searace ot ether obey ia ole ane bean peal or &
Le ne anit ee her

National Zoological Park

dis. IssigolooX Lsnort |
National Zoological Park

THEoporE H. ReEeEp, Dzirector

With the completion of the remodeled birdhouse (December 4, 1964),
efforts of the National Zoological Park were turned to restocking the
avian collection, which had dwindled during the time that there was
little exhibition space for birds. When the house opened to the public
on February 14, 1965, many new species were on view in addition to
the ones that of necessity had been kept behind the scenes during the
rebuilding.

PURCHASES

The major part of purchases for the year consisted of birds, but a
number of interesting mammals were also added to the collection.

Most important of these was a young female gorilla, Femelle, bought
as a mate for Leonard, the male born at the National Zoo on January
10, 1964. Femelle and Leonard were not compatible, however, and
the new female was put with Tomoka, a 3%-year-old male, also born
at the Zoo. This pairing has worked out most amicably.

A pair of siamangs was obtained from a dealer. Twelve tenrecs
were bought from a collector who had obtained them in Madagascar.
These rare little insectivores had not been exhibited at the Zoo since
1910, and the Park was fortunate in securing two species: Hemicentetes
semispinosus, the streaked tenrec, and the so-called common tenrec,
Tenrec ecaudatus.

Another interesting acquisition was a small-eared dog (Atelocynus
microtis) purchased as a mate for one secured last year.

For many years the Zoo had only one ostrich, an elderly male. Six
young specimens of this interesting bird were obtained and are now
on exhibit in a yard near the birdhouse.

Other purchases were:

1 flat-headed cat (Felis planiceps) 6 honeycreepers

1 owl monkey ; 3 Inca jays

29 chipmunks 4 black-eared golden tanagers
8 flying squirrels 1 azure jay

1 bushbaby 2 green Inca jays

1 female jaguar 2 San Blas jays

159
160 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965

2 troupials 1 rufous motmot

4 Australian crested bronze-winged 10 masked crimson tanagers
doves 2 quetzals

2 American band-tailed pigeons 4 violaceous jays

2 pied mynahs 3 Inca terns

2 spectacled mocking thrushes 2 blue-eared pheasants

2 black-headed orioles 2 common bronze-winged doves

4 blue rock thrushes

2 white-winged trumpeters
1 Curtis python

6 mud puppies

1 Texas lined snake

2 black-necked screamers

5 black-bellied glossy starlings

2 pagoda mynahs

2 necklaced laughing thrushes

2 gold-headed mynahs

2 gray-headed mynahs
assorted finches

10 turacos

18 hummingbirds 4 pancake tortoises

3 cocks-of-the-rock 1 prairie king snake
2 black-headed sugarbirds 1 eastern hog snake

6 blue-shouldered mountain tanagers 1 black-necked garter snake

BIRTHS

The number of animals born and hatched in the Zoo during the
past year was gratifying. Reproduction of their kind is evidence that
animals have adjusted well to the necessarily artificial conditions of
captivity. The pygmy hippopotamuses for which the Zoo has long
been famous continue to breed. Offspring of the original male were
all named Gumdrop, but with the advent of the new sire progeny
were given the names of Greek letters, and the eight young ones, two
of which were born this year, bear names running from Alpha to Iota.
The Nile hippopotamuses also had another baby.

Birds in the new house took to nest-building almost immediately
upon their transfer there. Of especial interest were the kookaburras
and the Indian moorhens. By June 30 three pairs of kookaburras, all
hatched at the National Zoological Park, were nesting.

Following the procedure of previous years, all births and hatchings
are listed below, whether or not the young were successfully raised. In
many instances, the record of animals having bred in captivity is of
interest.
“Archie” is the splendid adult orangutan Elf owls (Micrathene whitney)
obtained by exchange with the Toronto were obtained from the Ari-
Zoo on June 2, 1965. zona-Sonora Desert Museum

by exchange.

Aldabra tortoise with leg in
cast as a result of a spiral
oblique fracture of the right
humerus. Unable to walk on
three legs, it soon learned to
propel itself when put on a
trucker’s dolly.

Forty-two anacondas born from one female on February 15, 1965. The
young were approximately twenty inches long and one inch in diameter at
birth.
The new great outdoor flight cage, shown here just after completion and
before the birds were moved in, may be entered from a walk leading through
the deer area, or by way of a bridge from the upper level of the birdhouse.

Typical of the new exhibition concept in the renovated birdhouse is such a
grouping of birds as shown here in their natural habitat.

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK

Common name
MAMMALS

Opossum
Ring-tailed lemur
Spider monkey
Black spider monkey
Pygmy marmoset
Rhesus monkey
Barbary ape
Vervet X grivet guenon
Green guenon
Chimpanzee
Two-toed sloth
Prairie dog
Patagonian cavy
Chinchilla

Common jackal
Gray fox

European brown bear
Grizzly bear
Neumann’s genet
African water civet
Leopard

Black leopard
California sea-lion
Hyrax

Grant’s zebra
Collared peccary
Nile hippopotamus
Pygmy hippopotamus
Llama

Reindeer

Reindeer X caribou
Cape buffalo
Brindled gnu

Number
of births
and
hatchings

*

ONNRPRPN PRP NY RPP RR

*Stillborn, or died shortly after birth.

789—427—66——22

Common name

161

Number
of births
and
hatchings

MamMaAts—Continued

Dorcas gazelle
African pygmy goat
Aoudad

Barbary sheep
Big-horn sheep

Birps

Double-crested cormorant
Black-necked swan
Canada goose

Wood duck

Mallard duck

Black duck

Cayenne wood rail
Indian moorhen

Nanday parrot
Kookaburra

REPTILES

Common snapping turtle
Common box turtle
Painted turtle
Yellow-bellied turtle
Red-eared turtle

Tokay gecko

Fence lizard

Blue spiny lizard
Anaconda

Ribbon snake

mw bd ~I
162 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965
GIFTS

The Zoo received a bequest from the Gordon Gaver estate, consisting
of a large number of reptiles, 25 mammals, and 3 birds. Mr. Gaver,
who died in August 1964, had for many years owned and operated a
roadside snake exhibit near Thurmont, Md. At his death, his entire
collection came to the National Zoological Park and made a note-
worthy addition. In some instances there were more specimens than
the Zoo could exhibit, and these were of great value as exchange
material with other zoos.

The Montana Fish and Game Department sent two pronghorn
antelopes; the Japanese Embassy gave the Zoo a collection of 40
especially fine goldfishes which had been part of the exhibit at the
Japanese pavilion at the New York World’s Fair.

Space does not permit listing all gifts received during the year, but
a complete list of Mr. Gaver’s collection, and other gifts of interest,
follows:

ANIMAL REscuE LEAGUE, Washington, D.C., great black hawk.

Back, Mrs. ALLAN N., Kensington, Md., boa constrictor.

BLoMELEY, Dr. CHARLES P., Takoma Park, Md., cedar waxwing,
mourning dove.

BoEHM, Epwarp MarsHALL, Trenton, N.J., 3 white-cheeked turacos.

BRYAN, JOHN R., Bethesda, Md., 2 boa constrictors.

Capps, Mrs. Caro, Washington, D.C., Chinese macaque.

CarrROL, RoBERT, Springfield Va., timber rattlesnake.

CuHar.es, Mrs. R. H., Washington, D.C., 2 ring-necked doves, albino
ring-necked dove.

Cocuran, Dr. Doris, Washington, D.C., 2 tropical coral snakes.

Cooper, Witi1AM I., Washington, D.C., blue-faced toucan.

DeEPrato, Mario, Washington, D.C., barking tree frog, 2 paradise
fish.

Drxon, Linpon, Fairfax, Va., pine vole.

Eaton, Rev. CHARLES E., Washington, D.C., 2 Congo pygmy frogs.

Epmunps, W. W., Oxon Hill, Md., 2 sparrow hawks.

Fow se, Mrs. MArcaret, Bethesda, Md., 4 strawberry finches, orange
weaver, 2 cut-throat weavers, 2 African fire finches, Bengalee finch,
7 zebra finches, 2 red-eared waxbills.

GatTI, STEVE, Silver Spring, Md., Eleonora’s falcon.

GavER, Gorpon, Thurmont, Md., chimpanzee, woolly monkey, 9
rhesus monkeys, weeping capuchin, 3 capuchins, 2 green guenons, 2
sooty monkeys, 3 spider monkeys, 1 burro, 2 domestic goats, yellow-
and-blue macaw, 3 Pekin ducks, cantil, Mexican beaded lizard, gila
monster, African black cobra, Indian python (light phase), 2 coral
NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK 163

snakes, 2 Cook’s tree boas, 2 banded kraits, 11 Russell’s vipers, emerald
tree boa, Gaboon viper, ball python, 27 Indian cobras, king cobra,
regal python, 2 sand boas, 5 many-banded kraits, 6 star tortoises, 4
black tegus, 2 anacondas, South American boa, Indian python (dark
phase), 4 American alligators, American crocodile, 2 chicken snakes,
6 pilot black snakes, corn snake, 59 common water snakes, timber
rattlesnake, 6 eastern diamondback rattlesnakes, 36 western dia-
mondback rattlesnakes, 55 cottonmouth moccasins, Galapagos tor-
toise, red-footed tortoise, 8 northern copperheads, indigo snake, 3
Philippine cobras, 2 Indian cobras, 22 miscellaneous water snakes.

Gray, Dr. Ciinton, Alexandria, Va., 2 cockatiels.

GREENHALL, PAuL, Washington, D.C., 4 tropical hermit crabs, fresh-
water eel, tree frog, 2 giant toads.

GriFFIN, RoBERT DALE, McLean, Va., pileated woodpecker.

Grimmer, J. LEAR, Washington, D.C., 14 West Indian anoles, 2 fence
lizards, higatee turtle, 5 Grand Cayman water snakes, lazy snake,
Grand Cayman racer.

HaceEn, CLEmens O., Fairfax, Va., double yellow-headed parrot.

Harman, Mrs. Ann, Washington, D.C., Asiatic quail.

Hema, ALton W., U.S. Consul General, Guayaquil, Ecuador, Gala-
pagos tortoise.

KEEFER, Lonny, Mt. Rainier, Md., canyon tree frog.

KeEsE, RoBERT, Rockville, Md., boa constrictor.

Laxicu, GEorGcE, Jacksonville Beach, Fla., 3 natterjack toads, 2 green
toads, sand lizard.

LocxE, Orro Martin, New Braunfels, Tex., 8 collared lizards, 3 Texas
alligator lizards, 25 blue spiny lizards, prairie kingsnake, Great
Plains rat snake, Texas lined snake, eastern hog-nosed snake, eastern
black-necked garter snake.

Matong, Cot., U.S. Army, Arlington, Va., 5 chameleons.

Marcus, Dr. LEonARD, Washington, D.C., 2 scorpions, whiptail, 2
western swifts.

Martin, JAMES, Norfolk, Va., 2 water moccasins.

Martin, W. H., Leesburg, Va., slender glass lizard, peninsula cooter.

May, Lonniz G., Laurel, Md., timber rattlesnake.

McCrae, GLEN, Littleton, Colo., bullsnake, Sonora gopher snake,
western milk snake, California striped racer, Great Basin gopher
snake.

McGreevy, Dr. J., Arlington, Va., coatimundi.

MeckstroTH, Lt. Cou. L. E., Davidsonville, Md., red-headed conure.

Miter, Miss CHRISTINE, Bethesda, Md., civet.

Morrison, Mrs. A., Washington, D.C., double yellow-headed parrot.

Mourpuy, Miss Gwen, Arlington, Va., half-moon conure.
164 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965

NATIONAL AQUARIUM, Dept. of Commerce, Washington, D.C., piranha,
2 diamond-backed terrapins.

POoHLMAN, GUNTHER, Neuwied/Rhn., West Germany, 22 newts.

Preston, Mrs. Lois, Riverdale, Md., Chinese macaque.

Quintan, Mr. G. J., Washington, D.C., squirrel monkey.

Racan, Miss Donna, Washington, D.C., 18 western painted turtles.

REEVES, Mrs. CiypE P., Arlington, Va., lesser hill mynah.

Riwer, V. D., Warrenton, Va., alligator.

Ripe.ey, S. Ditton, Washington, D.C., rosy-billed pochard, 2 falcated
teal.

Rosey, Mrs. R. W., Silver Spring, Md., weeping capuchin.

Rosinson, Mrs. WiLxiAM S., Seat Pleasant, Md., ocelot.

RonnNINGEN, Miss Karen, McLean, Va., white-winged parakeet.

Rowan, Mrs. Micuaet B., Silver Spring, Md., 2 ‘Texas tortoises.

SCHWARTZBECK, DonAtp F., Washington, D.C., snapping turtle
(32 Ibs.).

Scott, JAMEs F., Falls Church, Va., pig-tailed macaque.

SEIBEL, HitpA, Chevy Chase, Md., cockatiel.

SHARPE, BRIAN, and ERECKSON, WILLARD, Washington, D.C., European
racer.

SmiTH, Mrs. J. B., Arlington, Va., peach-faced lovebird.

SmiTH, Mr. and Mrs. Ray, Falls Church, Va., western flying squirrel,
Abyssinian cavy.

SMITHSONIAN InsTITUTION, DivisIon oF Brirps, Washington, D.C., 3
sooty terns, 6 Laysan albatrosses, 6 black-footed albatrosses.

Stack, Dick, Linthicum Heights, Md., diamondback terrapin.

TERBORGH, Dr. JoHNn, College Park, Md., New Guinea tree snake.

TrscHAN, Lr. Cot. P. E., Chevey Chase, Md., Florida king snake.

Teunis, Mrs. ExizABsETH, Washington, D.C., red-and-blue macaw.

U.S. Fish and WILDLIFE SERVICE, Cambridge, Md., 2 whistling swans.

WasHIncTon, H., Washington, D.C., American bittern.

Wess, Vick, Alexandria, Va., sulphur-breasted toucan.

Witiiams, Mrs. NE, Hyattsville, Md., lesser hill mynah.

Winn, Cot. C. G., McLean, Va., white-handed gibbon.

EXCHANGES

The National Zoological Park participates in a continuing program
of exchanging surplus animals with other zoos. This year Leonard,
a young male gorilla born in the Zoo, was sent to Riverside Park Zoo
in Toronto, Canada, in exchange for a 10-year-old male prangutan,
a proven sire. Archie, the new orangutan, is being introduced to
NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK 165

the Zoo’s two females, and it is hoped that eventually young ones

will be born here. The National Zoo has bred gorillas, chimpanzees,

and gibbons, but never orangs.

Through the offices of U.S. Senator Karl Mundt, the Zoo received
3 pairs of ring-necked pheasants from South Dakota. In exchange
a hybrid macaque and 2 parrots were sent to the Great Plains Zoo
in Sioux Falls, S. Dak.

Animals obtained through exchange were:

Arizona-Sonora Desert Museum, Tucson, Ariz., 2 elf owls.

Baltimore Zoo, Baltimore, Md., elephant trunk snake.

Calgary Zoo, Calgary, Alberta, Canada, 2 American martens, 1
coyote, 1 coatimundi, 1 lynx.

Cheyenne Mountain Zoo, Colorado Springs, Colo., 1 musang.

Crowder, R. L., Stuart, Fla., 1 pygmy rattlesnake, 1 indigo snake.

El Pinar Zoo, Caracas, Venezuela, 2 troupials, 2 blue tanagers, 2
brown tanagers, 15 saffron finches, 10 scarlet ibises.

Gans, Carl, Buffalo, N.Y., 1 saw-scale viper.

George’s Pet Shop, Hyattsville, Md., 2 South American foxes, 1 tayra,
1 rhinoceros iguana, 1 Indian otter, 1 South American green lizard,
1 capybara, 1 golden tamandua, 2 speckled agoutis, 2 caimans,
1 14%-foot anaconda.

Honolulu Zoo, Honolulu, Hawaii, 1 Nene goose.

Kerfess, Cdr., John F., Alexandria, Va. Mohave diamondback rattle-
snake, 2 banded geckos, 2 faded snakes.

Memphis Zoo, Memphis, Tenn., 1 African porcupine.

Portland Zoo, Portland, Oreg., 7 California ground squirrels.

Rider, V. D., Warrenton, Va., 2 siamangs, 3 blood pythons, 1 gila
monster, 1 beaded lizard, 1 galago.

San Antonio Zoo, San Antonio, Tex., 4 scaled quail, 2 roadrunners,
2 wattled guans, 3 roseate spoonbills, 5 Cuban flamingos, 2 glossy
ibis, 2 green-winged teal, 2 least tinamous.

San Diego Zoo, San Diego, Calif., 4 double-yellow-headed parrots, 2
white-fronted Amazon parrots, 2 yellow-winged lorikeets, 1 eclectus
parrot, 4 Beebe parakeets, 2 lorikeets.

Southeast Pet Shop, Washington, D.C., 2 rhesus monkeys, 1 sooty
mangabey. ‘

Tote-Em-In Zoo, Wilmington, N.C., 2 brown water snakes, 2 house
snakes, 2 green chicken snakes, 1 canebrake rattlesnake, 1 Nile
crocodile, 1 European badger.

The following animals were sent to other zoos and to private col-
lectors in exchange:

Alipore Zoo, Calcutta, India, 1 pair red-and-blue macaws, 1 pair blue-
and-gold macaws, 1 pair red, blue, and yellow macaws, 6 pairs wood
166 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965

ducks, 2 pairs Canada geese, 2 Mexican beaded lizards, 2 gila mon-
sters, 4 caimans.

Baltimore Zoo, Baltimore, Md., 1 king cobra, 3 baby anacondas.

Bates Wood Zoo, New London, Conn., 1 European brown bear cub.

Buffalo Zoo, Buffalo, N.Y., 2 water civets.

Chicago Zoo, Brookfield, Ill., 4 baby anacondas.

Cincinnati Zoo, Cincinnati, Ohio, 2 llamas.

Cleveland Zoo, Cleveland, Ohio, 4 prairie dogs, 1 kookaburra.

Crowder, R. L., Stuart, Fla., 1 baby anaconda.

Department of Recreation and Parks, Richmond, Va., 2 peacocks.

Detroit Zoo, Royal Oak, Mich., 1 Morelett’s crocodile.

Edinburg Zoo, Edinburg, Scotland, 4 raccoons, 19 chipmunks.

Griffin, James, Key Biscayne, Fla., 4 pairs wood ducks.

Lincoln Park Zoo, Chicago, Ill., 4 blossom-headed parakeets.

London Zoo, London, England, 1 coatimundi.

Palmer, Harold C., Douglasville, Ga., 1 American bison, 1 white fallow
deer, 2 aoudads, 1 chimpanzee, 1 leopard, 1 Patagonian cavy, 2 ar-
madillos, 1 douroucouli monkey, 1 black swan, 2 caimans, 3 boa
constrictors, 1 regal python, 4 snapping turtles.

Philadelphia Zoo, Philadelphia, Pa., 1 woolly monkey.

Portland Zoo, Portland, Oreg., 5 baby anacondas, 2 blossom-headed
parakeets.

Pretoria Zoo, Pretoria, South Africa, 4 flying squirrels, 6 chipmunks.

Rider, V. D., Warrenton, Va., 1 chimpanzee, 1 black leopard.

San Antonio Zoo, San Antonio, Tex., 2 llamas, 2 dorcas gazelles.

Topeka Zoo, Topeka, Kans., 2 baby anacondas.

Tote-Em-In-Zoo, Wilmington, N.C., 2 spider monkeys, 4 capuchin
monkeys, 9 rhesus monkeys, 2 sooty mangabeys, 2 green monkeys,
3 Pekin ducks, 15 copperheads, 53 water moccasins, 4 American
alligators, 1 timber rattlesnake, 25 western diamondback rattlesnakes.

STATUS OF THE COLLECTION, June 30, 1965

Species or

Class Orders Families subspecies Individuals
Mammals ihe) 50 231 643
Birds’ - Pape 69 432 921
Reptiles 4 27 204 716
Amphibians 2 10 31 107
Fishes 5 11 26 156
Arthropods 3 3 4 55
Mollusks 1 1 1 30

Total 50 171 929 2, 628
N

ATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK

167

In the following lists of mammals and birds, sex is given where
known; 1.0 indicates one male, 0.1 indicates one female, 1.1 indicates
one male and one female.

ANIMALS IN THE COLLECTION ON JUNE 30, 1965

MAMMALS
Family and common name Scientific name
MaARSsUPIALIA
Didelphidae:
Common opossum ..... Didelphis marsupialis. . . . .
Phalangeridae:
Sugar glider . PetaurussOVCOCEPS ic = te ne ne Bim stin®
equmrel glider... . Petaurus norfolcensis . . 1...
Phascolomidae:

Hairy-nosed wombat
Mainland wombat

Macropodidae:
Rat kangaroo

Tenrecidae:

Lasiorhinus latifrons
IPhascolomts RivSutuss aa eeun a Seee

Potorous tridactylus ......

INSECTIVORA

Commonitenrec 2... . UICHNEGIECOUGOLUS ee

Streaked tenrec
Erinaceidae:
European hedgehog

TICIICENTELES’ BPs ss se

Erinaceus CuropaeusS 2 «sc cane

CHIROPTERA
Pteropodidae:
Genereuih bats.) .. .. iis Pieropus.eiganteus..  . .Y 20 Sant
PRIMATES
Lemuridae:
Ring-tailed lemur ..... WT RIOT! CS ee er OO are
Browmlemur 9 5... TAMUE JULDUS? ke gs
Lorisidae:
Tickell’s slow loris ..... Nycticebus coucang tenasserimensis . .
BEREALIEALAC ON oo ok Galago crassicaudatus. . . ....
AES i FS ceo a hae Galago senegalensis zanzibaricus

Common potto .

ye RMS ers PerOUsChICHS POH So. ones’ sayn main ©

Number

1.0

3.4

1.2
1.0

0.1
0.1
21
0.1
168

Family and common name

Cebidae:
Douroucouli, or night monkey.
deere bi V 121 <2 Linge Oe ae a
White-faced saki monkey
Capuchin AS 724} At-). 7
Weeping capuchin
Squiurelsmonkey 5 "22." :
Black spider monkey
Spider monkey -t4 er el:
Woolly monkey. .
Callithricidae:
Pyoemy marmoset< iss). Gi
Geoffroy’s marmoset
Cottontop marmoset
Hybrid. marmoset) 3 25 6 1.
Moustached tamarin
Cercopithecidae:
Toque, or bonnet monkey . .
Philippine macaque
Crab-eating macaque. .
Hybrid macaque. .... .
Pig-tailed macaque . .
Chinese macaque
Rhesus monkey e(cir-4,; “sth:
Formosan monkey
Red-faced macaque
Wanderoo, or lion-tailed
monkey.
Barbary ape . .
Moor macaque .
Crested macaque, or Celebes
ape.
Gray-cheeked mangabey
Agile mangabey
Golden-bellied mangabey
Red-crowned mangabey. . .
Sooty mangabey
Crested mangabey
DDritl se Sh ss sh
Olive baboon
Chacma baboon
Gelada baboon
Wervet Suenon: ta <7
Grivet guenon, color variant .
Hybrid guenon, color variant.
Moustached monkey

CrniCes STIS 6

oy Lah; letseveys ne

SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965

Scientific name

Aotus trivirgatus

Saimiri sciureus .
Ateles fusciceps
Ateles geoffroyt
Lagothrix sp

Cebuella pygmaea
Ocdipomidas spixt .
Saguinus oedipus

Macaca sinica, 2. eee
Macaca philippinensis
Wacaca (us =. 2 eee
M. philippinensis XM. irus

Macaca nemesirina . . . OG
Macaca lasiotis.... 2) ee
Macacamulattas. 42. 35 ae
Macacaccyclopis . 2.0... Se
Miacata speciosa; << =) ae

Macaca silenus

Macaca sylvanus
Macaca maurus

Cercocebus albigena
Cercocebus galeritus
Cercocebus g. chrysogaster
Cercocebus torquatus

Cercocebus aterrimus
Mandrillus leucophaeus
Papio anubis

Papio comatus
Theropithecus gelada

C. a. pygerythrus X C. a. aethiop
Cercopithecus cephus

Cacajao rubicundus. . .....
Pithecia pithecia... . 2. eee
Cebus capucinus 2.2). Ay. AIAG
Cebus oristus. | 2

Pe MCieets OO
Ce er FS
se Se. el) Sel ems

ey rat eM te er en vameme mete

S. atdas XS. oedipus sana
WALUNUS MYStaX . =.

si oy a) loca Savoie,
6 Qh, Se) (ei rep eee Rete

Cercocebus fuliginosus. . . ...

Cercopithecus aethiops . . . .. .
Cercopithecus aethiops... ....
NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK

Family and common name
Diana monkey .
Roloway monkey. .
DeBrazza’s guenon .
White-nosed guenon
Allen’s swamp monkey
Patas monkey
Dusky langur
Langur . :
Crested entellus

Pongidae:
White-handed gibbon .
Wau-wau gibbon .
Hybrid gibbon. .
Siamang gibbon
Borean orangutan.
Sumatran orangutan
Chimpanzee . .
Lowland gorilla

Myrmecophagidae:
Giant anteater .
Tamandua, or collared ant-
eater.
Bradypodidae:
Two-toed sloth. .
Dasypodidae:

Nine-banded armadillo

Sciuridae:
European red squirrel .
Gray squirrel, albino
Western fox squirrel
Southern fox squirrel .
Tricolored squirrel .
Formosan tree squirrel.
Woodchuck, or groundhog
Hoary marmot . :
Prairie-dog :
California ground au
Washington ground squirrel
Antelope ground squirrel
Golden-mantled ground

squirrel.

Round-tailed ground squirrel.

Scientific name

Cercopithecus diana

Cercopithecus diana roloway.

Cercopithecus neglectus
Cercopithecus nictitans

Allenopithecus nigroviridis .

Erythrocebus sp .
Presbytis obscurus
Presbytis entellus

Presbytis cristatus

HAylobates lar .
Hylobates moloch.

Hi. lar X H. sp .
Symphalangus sureties
Pongo pygmaeus . :
Pongo pygmaeus abel. .
Pan satyrus

Gorilla gorilla

EDENTATA

Myrmecophaga tridactyla. . .

Tamandua tetradactyla

Choloepus didactylus
Dasypus novemeinctus .
RODENTIA

Sciurus vulgaris .
Sciurus carolinensis .
Sciurus niger .
Sciurus niger .
Callosciurus prevosti
Callosciurus erythraeus .
Marmota monax
Marmota caligata .
Cynomys ludovicianus .
Citellus beecheyt . .
Citellus washingtont
Citellus sp .

Citellus lateralis .

Citellus tereticaudus

169

Number

3.0

1A

1.1
0.2
1.0
0.1
0.1
tA
0.1
ii

28
0.2
0.1
1.0
0.1

1.0
170 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965

Family and common name
Eastern chipmunk ... .
Eastern chipmunk, albino . .
Yellow pine chipmunk. . .
Siebold’s chipmunk. . . .

Eastern flying squirrel
Heteromyidae:

Kangaroo rat
Castoridae:

Beaver

Pedetidae:

ephiifel oe cet te. ) Felst ie

Cape jumping hare. . . .

Cricetidae:

Fat-tailedigerbilvue 3.3.5 7%

White-footed mouse

East African maned rat . .

Muridae:

Egyptian spiny mouse. .

Egyptian spiny mouse .
Negev spiny mouse .
Giant forest rat

Slender-tailed cloud rat .

Gliridae:
Garden dormouse
Hystricidae:
African porcupine
Brush-tailed porcupine
Palawan porcupine . .
Cavidae:

Abyssinian guinea pig. . . .

Patagonian cavy . .
Dasyproctidae:

Hairy-rumped agouti . .

Speckled agouti

ACOUCDY:# ss nee es

Chinchillidae:
Mountain viscacha . .

Hydrochoeridae:

Capybata a. 4 3 sos eke

Canidae:
Dingo

Common jackal

(GOS 0. ae emt oe EY Oe

dimber wolk-s) 4050 > ee

Scientific name

Tamias striatus . .
Tamas striatus . .

Eutamias amoenus . . .

Eutamias sibiricus
Glaucomys volans .

Dipodomys sp. .
Castor canadensis.
Pedetes capensis . .
Pachyuromys duprast
Peromyscus sp

Lophiomys ibeanus
Acomys cahirinus .

Acomys dimidiatus .
Acomysispiinpricme

oY Set tbek ld ve

ee le | en hoe

0) 16. | su eRe Myre eeeratn are

Ce Oe OO. oO

Teme «NO! FO

6 | Se) « ce) @ el en eie iene

Cricetomys gambianus . .

Phloecomys cumingit

Eliomys quercinus .

HHystrix‘cristata 2...) .) eee

Atherurussp .. .
Thecurus pumilus .

Cavia porcellus . .
Dolichotis patagonum

oe) |) ‘eo meme

@ ce (ey Tex cel Minene

se; ce yeh Xen) Seen

Dasyprocta prymnolopha. . . .. .

Dasyprogta punctata
Myoprocta acouchy .

Lagidiumsp. .. .

e\ 8, vel) Sey 0 kee arene

© “ese, Jew hem ennanre

Hydrochoerus hydrochaerus . . . . .

CARNIVORA

Canis familiaris dingo
Canis latrans . . .
Canis aureus . . .
Canis lupus .. .

Cin Rig @8 bd eee

1.0

1.2
11
Ld
1.3
NATIONAL

Family and common name
Texas red wolf . .
Pennec
Gray fox
Red fox .

Raccoon dog

South American fox
Small-eared dog
Cape hunting dog
Ursidae:

Spectacled bear
Himalayan bear
Japanese black bear
Korean bear .
European brown bear .
Iranian brown bear
Grizzly bear. .
Kodiak bear .
Black bear

Polar bear

Hybrid bear .

Malay sun bear

Sloth bear. .
Procyonidae:

Cacomistle

Raccoon.

Raccoon, albino
Raccoon, black phase .
Coatimundi .. .
Peruvian coatimundi
Kinkajou

Olingo . .
Mustelidae:

Fisher

Marten . wee
Yellow-throated marten .
British Guiana tayra
Grison

Zorilla

Wolverine .

Ratel .

Eurasian, or common badger.
Golden-bellied ferret badger .

Common skunk.
River otter. .

ZOOLOGICAL PARK

Scientific name
Canis niger rufus.
Fennecus zerda
Urocyon cinereoargenteus .
Vulpes fulva
Noyctereutes procyonoides .
Dusicyon culpaeus
Atelocynus macrotis .
Lycaon pictus .

Tremarctos ornatus .
Selenarctos thibetanus .
Selenarctos t. japonicus
Selenarctos t. ussuricus.
Ursus arctos
Ursus arctos
Ursus horribilis . :
Ursus middendorffi . . .
Euarctos americanus
Thalarctos maritimus .
Thalarctos maritimus X Ursus
middendorffi.
Helarctos malayanus
Melursus ursinus

Bassariscus astutus .
Procyon lotor .
Procyon lotor .
Procyon lotor .
Nasua nasua .
Nasua n. dorsalis
Potos flavus
Bassaricyon gabbi

Martes pennanti .
Martes americana

Martes flavigula henrict .
Tayra barbara poliocephala
Gallictis allimandi .
Ictonyx striatus

Gulo gulo

Mellivora capensis .
Meles meles

Melogale moschata .
Mephitis mephitis

Lutra canadensis

171

Number
0.1
11
1.2
1.0
0.1
i |
1B
et

1.0
0.1
1.0
f.4
2.2
et
yA
1.0
1.1
1:2.
2.1

0.2
41

t1
0.1
0.1
1.0
2.2
1.2
2
|

0.1
1.2
411
1m
1.0
1.0
0.1
1.0
0.1
itt
0.1
2.0
172 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965

Family and common name

Viverridae:
Genet Ads etal
Formosan spotted civet
Linsang .
African palm civet
Masked civet
Binturong .
African water civet .
Cusimanse

White-tailed mongoose

Black-footed mongoose
Hyaenidae:
Striped hyena
Felidae:
Bobcat
Canada lynx
Jungle cat .
Serval cat .
Fishing cat.
Leopard cat .
Golden cat.
Flat-headed cat.
Ocelot
Jaguarondi
Puma
Leopard
Black leopard
Lion :
Bengal tiger .
Bengal tiger, white .
ty EAU CTA Peano bias
Clouded leopard .
Cheetah

Otariidae:
California sea-lion .
Patagonian sea-lion .
Phocidae:

iEtarboriscalaaeeee

Orycteropodidae:
Wardvark 9".

. . . .

seibert cheese ‘evel es

wie. fot sj)" ‘es: - \e

Scientific name

Genelia genetia. . . . .
Viverricula indica
Prionodon linsang
Nandinia binotata .

Paguma larvata. . . .

. . .

Arctictis binturong . . .
Atilax paludinosus . .

Crossarchus fasciatus . .
Ichneumia albicauda . .
Bdeogale sp. .

Hyaenahyaena ....

Vynerufus cig 4.
Lynx canadensis . . . .
Felis chaus .
Felis serval

. . . .

Felis viverrinus

Felis bengalensis . . .
Felis aurata

Felis planiceps. .
Felis pardalis .
Felis yagouaroundd . . .
Helissconcolots. 5 5 ss
Panthera pardus. . . .
Panthera pardus. . . .
Panthera leo

Panthera tigris . . . .
Panthera tigris

Pantheraonca ....
Neofelis nebulosa. . . .
Acinonyx jubata .

PINNIPEDIA

Kalophus californianus .
Otaria flavescens. . . .

Phoca vitulina

. . . .

‘TUBULIDENTATA

Orycteropus afer .

oc. eet em (alate

Ce Sa

eh hie e eth bad ve

. . . .

eh? afl let thet? te

o- (a) ie ecaie

o Linzi sis Jfes be

©, Le) eer

fe TePR ee te

2s 8 e oth

0 Ate) Lael es oh hae

oe 8 (eR Ee

CU el a |

Number

1.0
NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK

Family and common name

Scientific name

PROBOSCIDEA

Elephantidae:
African elephant . .
Forest elephant
Indian elephant

Loxodonta africana .
Loxodonta cyclotis
Elephas maximus

HyYRACOIDEA
Procaviidae:
Rock hyrax Procavia capensis .
PERISSODACTYLA
Equidae:
Mongolian wild horse Equus przewalski
Grevy’s zebra Equus grevyt .

Grant’s zebra
Burro .
Tapiridae:
Brazilian tapir .
Rhinocerotidae:
‘One-horned Indian rhinoceros.
African black rhinoceros
White, or square-lipped
rhinoceros.

Equus burchelli .
Equus asinus .

Tapirus terrestris
Rhinoceros unicornis

Diceros bicorns .
Ceratotherium stmum .

ARTIODACTYLA

Tayassuidae:
Collared peccary . .
Hippopotamidae:
Hippopotamus
Pygmy hippopotamus. .
Camelidae:
Peabianicamel.. 5. . . . 4 »
Bactrian camel .
Llama
Alpaca
Cervidae:
AIEEE. 5 sw vs 6 RAR
Red deer . .
Sika deer
Amenicamueliyas, «3 2
Pére David’s deer
Forest caribou
PREMIGCET: es eth es
Hybrid reindeer

Sear y eyere) fe. § tem ite

Tayassu tajacu

Hippopotamus amphibius
Choeropsis liberiensis .

Camelus dromedarius .
Camelus bactrianus .
Lama glama

Lama pacos

Axis axis

Cervus elaphus. .
Cervus mppon .
Cervus canadensis . » sapbe
Elaphurus davidianus . .

Rangifer caribou

Rangifer tarandus

R. tarandusX R. caribou

*On deposit at another zoo or sanctuary.

173

Number

“1.4
“1.7
*1.0

4.10
174 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965

Family and common name Sctentific name Number
Giraffidae:
Masai giraffe Giraffa camelopardalis 1.2
Antilocapridae:
Pronghorn antelope. . . . . Antilocapra americana 1.0
Bovidae:
Sitatunga Tragelaphus speki . 1.0
Yak. Poephagus grunniens 29
Gaur . Bibos gaurus (one on desea +20)
Cape buffalo. Syncerus caffer 1.4
Anoa . Anos depressicornis . . 1.1
Brindled gnu Connochaetes taurinus . . . ... 4.7
Maxwell’s duiker . Cephalophus maxwellt ..... . 1.0
Dorcas gazelle . Gazella dorcas. . . 3.5
Saiga antelope . Saiga tatarica #01
Rocky Mountain goat Oreamnos americanus . . . .... 0.1
Himalayan tahr Hemitragus jemlahicus. . 0.1
African pygmy goat Capra hircus 3 4.3
Ibex Capra then... eo 1.0
Aoudad . Ammotragus lervia. .... . 0.1
Bighorn sheep . Oovis\canadensts 8 et ee ual
Dall sheep . Oois dalle. te ta =O.1
BIRDS
SPHENISCIFORMES
Spheniscidae:
King penguin Aptenodytes patagonica . . . .. . *3
Adelie penguin Pygoscelts adeliae . . «2a *]
STRUTHIONIFORMES
Struthionidae:
Ostrich . Struthtovcamelus . . . 2 ~ lopeeeeme 7
RHEIFORMES
Rheidae:
Common Rhea... . Rhea americana sons. 2 ee 0.1
CASUARIIFORMES
Casuariidae:
Double-wattled cassowary . . Casuarius bicarunculatus . ... . 1.1
Dromiceiidae:
Emu Dromiceius novaehollandiae ihe

*On deposit at another zoo or sanctuary.
NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK

Family and common name

Scientific name

TINAMIFORMES

Tinamidae:
Spotted tinamou .
Tataupa tinamou

Nothura maculosa
Crypturellus tataupa

. . .

PROCELLARIIFORMES

Diomedeidae:
Black-footed albatross... .

Diomedea nigripes .

PELECANIFORMES

Pelecanidae:
Old world white pelican
American white pelican . .
Brown pelican
Dalmatian pelican

Phalacrocoracidae:
Double-crested cormorant .
Great cormorant .

a a ae a |e}

Pelecanus onocrotalus .
Pelecanus erythrorhynchos .
Pelecanus occidentalis .
Pelecanus crispus

Phalacrocorax auritus .
Phalacrocorax carbo.

CICONIIFORMES

Ardeidae:
Common egret
Black-crowned night heron
American bittern . sia
Bare-throated tiger bittern .

Balaenicipitidae:
shocbill . . |.

Ciconiidae:

American wood ibis
White stork
White-bellied stork .
Black-necked stork
Painted stork ;

Threskiornithidae:
White ibis. .
Scarlet ibis.
Black-faced ibis
Glossy ibis
Black-headed ibis
Roseate spoonbill

Phoenicopteridae:
Chilean flamingo .
Greater flamingo .
Greater flamingo... .

Casmerodius albus .

Nycticorax nycticorax .
Botaurus lentiginosus
Tigrisoma mexicanum

Balaeniceps rex

Mycteria americana
Ciconta ciconia 5 3
Sphenorhynchus abdimu .
Xenorhynchus asiaticus
Ibis leucocephalus

Eudocimus albus
Eudocimus ruber .
Theristicus caudatus
Plegadis falcinellus

. . .

Threskiornis melanocephala

Ajaia ajaja

Phoenicopterus chilensis .
Phoenicopterus ruber
Phoenicopterus ruber roseus

bey bh
176 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965

Family and common name Scientific name Number
ANSERIFORMES
Anhimidae:
@rested screamer. ,; . ayes Ghaunaltorquata, . . . Geen E 3
Black-necked screamer. . . . Chaunachavaria ........ ie
Anatidae:
Coscoroba swan... . . 2M Coscorabaicescoroba =... "ee 2.2
Mute swan : Cygnus olor .. ; 1.1
Black-necked swan . Cygnus melancoriphus. . . 1... . ‘el
Wikhistline swam “2. Gan Cygnus columbianus. . . . . . aie 1
Whooping swan Olor,eyenus 39... . (se Pass
Trumpeter swan . Olor buccinator. . . . see 1.1
Black swan Gyenusatratus . cecil ahr 2.2
Egyptian goose Alopochen aegyptiacus. . . . ... 4
White-fronted goose Auseralbifrons |... “<n 4
Bar-headed'poosey > ~. - jay: Anserendicus |... ene 2.2
Emperor goose . Anser canagicus. °. . J. see tA
Snow goose ae Apser Gagriulescens, ws eae 2
Snow goose, blue ts Wie. Anser caerulescens 6
Ross’s snow goose Anser rossi 2
Nene, or Hawaiian goose Branta sandvicensis 2.0
Red-brested goose Branta ruficollis . 2.2
Canada goose we Branta canadensis ; 13
Canada goose Xsnow goose, Branta canadensis X Anser cnehitesten® 1
hybrid.

Canada goose Branta canadensis parvipes . . . . . 4
Canada goose Branta canadensis maxima. ... . a5
Canada goose Branta canadensis minima... . . il
Fulvous tree duck Dendrocyena bicolor’ : : 2 eee 0.1
Wood duck 5. dl aliceRan nt MAUR PONSCs os ha. 8:70) ea eee 30
Mandarin duek: : - . “ie Aealenculata : : . 3 ee i. 1
Common pintail Anasacuta ; : :.2 3.2 2a 1.0
Green-winged teal NURYTESYCTeECG =) = ¢ 3 |; a 2.0
€hestnut-brested teal Or" > ina castanea * <5 2 | ee 1.0
European widgeon or Wnas penelope: ss : 6. 2.0

baldpate. i
American widgeon . . Anasamericana . 5 ss + 3s 2 OE 5.0
Spot-billed duck ...... Anas poecilorhyncha. . . . . ... 1.2
Mallard. . : ; . 5 ees Anas platyrhynchos. . . . .. 50
American black duck . . Anas fubripes . 2 ss 2 5 + SIM 3.2
Philippine duck Anas luzonica I
Greater'scaup: Yaiavin « Aythya manila’... 4s . CROOGR SG 2.0
Lesser scaup . Aythya affintss . . . . 2ROSsT 3.1
Ring-necked duck Apthyavcbllatis sia tn Cisne 6.0
Rosy-billed pochard Wettaipeposaca... - . + QQ Sail
Red-crested pochard iNetmrufina, . « . > « OSOIRIS 1.1
NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK

Family and common name Scientific name
DEK he we Sarkidiornis melanotos ......
ucey speiduck .-. « .). « Tiadorna feryuginea «2 ns se

FALCONIFORMES
Cathartidae:
muaeanecondor .... >. Valter oryphus. oss hfe he
ome wulture’ 2.92. 6 a Sarcoramphus papa. . ......
Sagittariidae:
meeretarymird - . 1 i as Sagittarius serpentarius . .....
Accipitridae:
iogded vulture. : . ....-\.% Necrosyrtes monachus... ....
Griffom’vulture 2. oe es Gypsfuleus os. do & gageeades bo
Rasppell’s vulture - 3,....<)<.. CypssUppllt (conn tcstsosasy dc
Red-tailed hawk ...... Buble gaMatcenstS so we viirety eles Ye
Swainson’shawk ...... Buteo spansont 2. 3) ste
Red-shouldered hawk . . . . Buteolineatus .........
Ornate hawk-eagle . ... . Spizuetus ormnmaius. . . ~ hwo: ster
Long-crested hawk-eagle Lophaetus occipitalis . . 1...
eaidememle 2 2. 1 ais Aquila chrysaetos. . . . . .
Meaperiabeagle: 2 ose se ne Agpi ATU ACG pe Rainis cox} a2 527-4
White-bellied sea eagle Haliaeetus leucogaster. . . . . .
Pallas’s fishing eagle. . .. . Haliaeetus leucoryphus . .....
(2.2) G00 Haltaeetus leucocephalus. . . .. .
REMUS so i Terathopius ecaudatus ......
Lammergeier, or bearded Gypartus barbatus 20. 2s Ss
vulture.
Falconidae:
American kestrel or American Falco sparverius. .......-.
sparrowhawk.
Peregrine falcon or duckhawk. Falco peregrinus. . .......
Piconotas falcon. . .-. < . GID CUROTOROE Gee fe) oY en ce
Red-footed falcon. ..... GLC DESPA Sk skew
Bemgensidleonet.. . . . . - SINEDIBAGEAUSIONIS. oo ss ew oe
Collared forest falcon . . Micrastur semitorquatus. . ... .
Minested) catacara . 2)... «.. POlyPorgs PIGRCUS: oo sb go at
White-throated caracara. . . Phalcoboenus albogularis. . . .. .
GALLIFORMES
Megapodiidae:
MAYUEMRELIOEGY ooo oe os ed ALECIUG ANIA. 5) wa, Ba aca
Cracidae:
Red-wattled curassow . ERI I in
Cirecee 1 Penelope purpurascens... . 1...
White-crested piping guan . . Pipilecumanensis . . ......

789-427—_66—_23

177

Number
22
3

—
.
ro

a ee OO, ee ro

0.1

S
RB po NHN RF FF Re

1.0
2.0
178

Family and common name

Phasianidae:
Common quail .
Rain quail...) <
Scaled quail . .
Gambel’s quail .
California quail. .
Argus pheasant. .
Golden pheasant

Silvervpneasalitin oui) allen.
Ring-necked pheasant. .
Blue-eared pheasant. . .
Napoleon peacock-pheasant
Gray, or chinquis peacock-
pheasant.

Indian*peafowl = 2.2 <2 -
Red jungle fowl
Chukar: 4 6 oa) eke

elfen Wer kee te

Painted parthiGseyecs eet
Island chukar gray partridge .

Greek chukar black wood
partridge.
Numididae:

Vulturine guinea fowl. .

Gruidae:
Asiatic white crane .
Sandhill crane .
Common crane. .

Sarus crane
Crowned crane. .
Demoiselle crane .

Psophiidae:
White-winged trumpeter .

Rallidae:

Cayenne wood rail .
White-throated crake .
Common gallinule
Purple gallinule

Eurypygidae:
Sun bittern

Cariamidae:
Crested seriama

Black-breasted Kalij pheasant.

ae aNe. Menthe) Mya ae

SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965

Scientific name

Coturnix coturnix. . .
Coturnix coromandelica
Callipepla squamata
Lophortyx gambeli. .
Lophortyx californicus
Argusianus argus .
Chrysolophus pictus .
Lophura leucomelana .
Lophura nycthemera
Phasianus colchicus .
Crossoptilon auritum
Polyplectron emphanum
Polyplectron bicalcaratum

Pavo cristatus .

Gallus gallus .

Alectoris chukar .
Francolinus pictus
Francolinus pondicerianus
Melanoperdix nigra

Acryllium vulturinum .

GRUIFORMES

Grus leucogeranus
Grus canadensis .
Grus grus

Grus antigone .
Balearica pavonina .
Anthropoides virgo .

Psophia leucoptera
Aramides cajanea
Laterallus albigularis .

Gallinula chloropus . .
Porphyrula martinica .

Eurypyga helias .

Garwamatcnstata = ee

Chie ky es yO

e. |/e; Je c+ al) el Steyn ee

at lots! | gay el ate

Number

0.1
8

4
1.0
1
1.0
0.1
Ta
10)
6.4
1.0
Pl
waht

3.3
1.0
v1
1.0
ied
a2

0.1

ey =e ONe

ile

EP Ar wD
NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK

Family and common name Scientific name

Otididae:
Kori bustard
Senegal bustard

Ardeotis kort .
Eupodotis senegalensis .

See. felt iet Ce sia: | Ov Ble

oy wt pel eat) a) a)

CHARADRIIFORMES
Jacanidae:
Pheasant-tailed jacana Hydrophasianus chirurgus
Charadriidae:

Konifer tricolor
Pluvialis dominica .
Belonopterus chilensis .

Banded plover . .
American golden plover .
Southern lapwing

Glareolidae:

Eeypitam ployer . -« sw anae. Pluvianus aegyptius .
Recurvirostridae:

Black-necked stilt. . Himantopus mexicanus
Laridae:

Larus delawarensts .
Larus atricilla. .

Ring-billed gull
Laughing gull

Silver gull. . . Larus novaehollandiae . .

Sooty tern. . Sterna fuscata .

Inca tern Larosterna inca
COLUMBIFORMES

Columbidae:

Speckled pigeon ayhs Columba guinea .

Band-tailed pigeon . . Columba fasciata.

Green imperial pigeon Ducula aenea .

Crested bronze-wing pigeon Ocyphaps lophotes

Orange-breasted green pigeon. Treron bicincta

Common bronze-wing pigeon. Phaps chalcoptera

Blue ground dove ..... Claravis pretiosa ;

Ruddy ground dove Columbigallina talpacoti .

BMICTAIGAGVE Vos -  Syycrys Chalcophaps indica .

Streptopelia risoria .
Kenaidura macroura

Ringed turtle dove
Mourning dove.

PsITTACIFORMES
Psittacidae:
Kea
Black cockatoo
Solomon Islands cockatoo . .
Sulphur-crested cockatoo

Nestor notabilis .

mR elane h gew sep hlataje, 'w, (sey) to Ve

eh ce. epee! “(0

‘akatoe ducrops .
Kakatoe galerita .

Calyptorhynchus magnificus .

Bare-eyed cockatoo. .
Rose-crested cockatoo .
Leadbeater’s cockatoo
Cockatiel

Kakatoe sanguinea .
Kakatoe moluccensis
Kakatoe leadbeateri
Nymphicus hollandicus

179

Number

2.0
1.0

« wi Rie foaht

Nook WwW Ww he bp

j=)

rh
180 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965

Family and common name Scientific name Number
Yellow and blue macaw. . . Ara ararauna . 2
Red-and-green macaw. . . . Ara chloroptera 3
Scarlet macaw . . . iwsitslayeot Araymacao . . 3
Red-and-blue macaw . |... Aramaracana 5. “se eee tA
Cherry-headed conure parrot. Aratinga erythrogenys. . .... . 1
Brown-throated conure . . . Aratinga pertinax 5
Petzs conure): .7 2". = as Arannee cancnlarss > ae 3
Dusky-headed conure . . . . Aratingaweddellit. ....... 1
Nanday or blackheaded Nandayus nanday .. . . ; PONE 6

conure.
Chilean conure .... . . Microsittacae ferruginea . 1
Yellow-winged conure. . . . Brotogeris versicolurus 1
Monk parakeet. . «4 Whptopsitta monachus . . 2¥0N> RE 4
Double-yellow-headed Amazona ochrocephala ...... *1
Amazon parrot.
Single-yellow-headed Amazon Amazona ochrocephala ...... 3
parrot.
Yellow-naped Amazon parrot. Amazona ochrocephala ...... 1
Yellow-fronted Amazon Amazona ochrocephala ..... 3 1
parrot.
Red-lored Amazon parrot . . Amazona autumnalis . 1
White-fronted Amazon parrot. Amazona albifrons . 2
Festive-Amazon parrot... Amazona‘festiva . ._. = See 1
Black-headed caique . . . . Ptonites melanocephala 1
Budgerigar or warbling grass  Melopsittacus undulatus... .. . 0.1
parakeet.
Blue-rumped parrotlet . . . Forpus cyanopygius. ....... Due
Princess parrot: . = . 2°22 > Poljtelis' alexandraa)| 22° see 2.0
Rosy-faced lovebird .. . . Agapornis roseicollis . . ..... 1
African grey parrot . . .!))s2) “Psuttacus erithacas'). 10 2 ee 1
Red-sided eclectus parrot .. Loris roratus . . . 2. 2 oN 1.0
Alexandrine parakeet . . . . Psittaculaeupatria. . ...... 3.2
Rose-ringed parakeet . .. .  Psittaculakramert . . . . 01... 18
Moustached parakeet . . . . Psittaculaalexandn. . ...... 1.0
Blossom-headed parakeet . . Psittacula cyanocephala ..... . (me)
Blue-winged parakeet . . . . Pstttacula columboides ...... 1
CUCULIFORMES
Musophagidae:
White-bellied go-away bird . Corythaixoides leucogaster . ... . 1
White-cheeked turaco. . . . Tauraco leucotis . “See
Purple-crested turaco . . . . Gallirex porphyreolophus. . ... . 3
Cuculidae:
Greater roadrunner. . . . . Geococcyx californianus . ..... 0.2

*On deposit at another zoo or sanctuary.
NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK

Family and common name Scientific name Number
STRIGIFORMES
Tytonidae:
Common barnowl ..... Syanaa se 5 a OSA be 1
Strigidae:
eectacleaowl. . . . . . Pulsatrix perspicillata ...... 2
Siowyawl ss 5. eer NOY WNyeieascandiaca’® 4). UE OUOL EN 4
BAtreQiOWl. 3. . Siipvanials ss 6 o. A ROUORD 4
Brown wood-owl ...... Strix leptogrammica. . . 2. 2s. 1
Burrowing owl . . .. . 2. Speotyto cuncularia ....... 1
PEW) ow 2 ee wt BU OROUUO eae as Je ee ty Tet aie ae a 1
Se Ee oe eee oks: Micrathene whitney . 2. 2 ws. 2
APODIFORMES
Trochilidae:
White-throated amazilia Amariiaamaziua =. 5 « a 6 4 2
hummingbird.
COLIIFORME
Coliidae:
eea-mced oly” ee thy COMASTMTEUS Nested ehyah epee) 2
CORACIIFORMES
Alcedinidae:
Kookaburra or laughing Diarelogigas. 3 sw wn NOE 13
jackass.
White-breasted kingfisher . Halcyon smyrnensis . 2 1. ee 1
Momotidae:
Blue-crowned motmot Momotus momota ........ it
Great rufous motmot . Baryphthengus ruficapillus . . . . . 1
Coraciidae:
Lilac-breasted roller Goractas caudatass 2 6. J eee 2
Patianwoller a0 .\ssniarr\wre Coracias benghalensis . . . . 1... 2
Bucerotidae:
Concave-casqued, or great IBUCEIUS GICUIIES es ie “Td
pied, hornbill.
Indian pied hornbill Anthracoceros malabaricus . ... . 2
Malabar pied hornbill Anthracoceros coronatus ...... 1
Wrinkled hornbill. . ... . Rhyticeros corrugatus . . ..... 1
Wreathed hornbill .... . Rhyticeros undulatus... 1... 0.1
Yellow-billed hornbill . . . . Yockus flavirostris . . ...... 0.1
Abyssinian ground hornbill. . Bucorvus abyssincus . ...... led
Leadbeater’s ground hornbill. Bucorvus leadbeatet . ..... . 1.0
182 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965

Family and common name

Capitonidae:
Lineated barbet
Great hill barbet .

Ramphastidae:
Swainson’s toucan
Keel-billed toucan
Channel-billed toucan
Razor-billed aracari

Picidae:

Scientific name

PICIFORMES

Megalaima lineata .
Megalaima virens .

Ramphastos swainsonit
Ramphastos sulfuratus
Ramphastos vitellinus .
Pteroglossus castanotis

Pileated woodpecker Dryocopus pileatus .
PASSERIFORMES
Cotingidae:
Peruvian or scarlet cock-of- Rupicola peruviana .
the-rock.
Tyrannidae:
Kiskadee Pitangus sulphuratus .
Dicruridae: :
Greater racket-tailed drongo . Dicrurus paradiseus
Oriolidae:
Maroon oriole . Oriolus trailli
Corvidae:
Magpie-jay Calocitta formosa
Green jay . Cyanocorax yncas .

Violaceus jay.

San Blas jay

Bushy-crested jay

Himalayan tree pie .

Common jay.

Blue jay

Hunting icissae cee...

Red-billed blue magpie .

Formosan blue pie

Pied crow .

Common raven
Paridae:

Greapatee:
Timaliidae:

Slaty-headed scimitar babbler.
White-crested laughing thrush.

Necklaced laughing thrush .
Nilgiri or rufous-breasted,
laughing thrush.

Cyanocorax violaceus
Cisstlopha sanblasiana .

Cissilopha melanocyanea .

Dendrocitta formosae .
Garrulus glandarius .
Cyanocitta cristata .
Cissa chinensis
Urocissa erythrorhyncha
Urocissa caerulea.
Corvus albus

Corvus corax

Parus major

Pomatorhinus schisticeps .

Garrulax leucolophus .
Garrulax monileger .
Garrulax cachinnans

Number

1.0

0.1

NNAWAP RP RP PNY BROOK

—

Nn are
NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK

Family and common name Scientific name
Black-capped sibia .... . Heterophasia capistrata
Silver-eared mesia .... . Leothrix argentaunis . . . . . .
ice-belledieiothrix,. . . . . Letothrxlutea... . ..°. 3. -
Pycnonotidae:
Black-headed bulbul . . . . Pycnonotus atriceps. .... . Seis
Red-vented bulbul .... . PHC NORIES COPCTR LE. 04 5. ots tats ota
Red-whiskered bulbul. . . . Pycnonotus jocosus . . ee ee
White-throated bulbul . . . Criniger flaveolus ........
Irenidae:
Gold-fronted chloropsis or leaf Chloropsts aurifrons. . . 2... ..
bird.
Troglodytidae:
WVEOECEMWEEH:. 2-5 5. wks Troglodytes troglodytes
Turdidae:
American robin .... . . YTurdus migratorius
American robin, albino . . . Turdus migratorius ......
Momletemish.,  . . . . . . Lurdus viscidorus . . wk.
Gia Chat <a cik . . .  Lhamnolaea cinnamomeiventris
phama thrash. |... . . . . Copsychus malabaricus. . . .
Orange-headed ground Koothera citrina . . .
thrush.
Bombycillidae:
Cedar waxwing. ... . sutier DOMpycHla cedrofiim. «2. ceypsht aes
Sturnidae:
ieaayaaston 2 2. kw DOSEN OSES.
Purple glossy panting . . . .  Lamprotornis purpureus .
Greater glossy starling . . . Lamprotornis australis
Ninlensearting .°.. ..ghecane Cinnyricinclus leucogaster. . . . .
Jungle mynah. . . .. wor Acridotheres fuscus o> 2°. PERC:
iitemynan 2. ee Gzacula:religiosa: "QU
Pied mynah . . . . « Se inStarmuscontra, ... YVAWO) & Yomi
Gray-headed Ea : ov Sturnas malabaricus: 2202089 HE:
Black-headed, or Brahmi Sturnus pagodarum. ......
mynah.
Black-winged mynah . . . . Sturnus melanopterus . . . . . . .
Common starling. . . . . . Sturnus vulgaris... 2... :
Rothschild’s mynah  . . . . Leucopsar rothschildd . .. . . .
Gold-crested mynah .. . . Ampeliceps coronatus . . . 1... .
Black-bellied glossy starling. . Lamprotornis corruscus ..... .
Nectariniidae:
Sidcazre sinpird ©. +e MIN PN Nestarmta tacazze. ee oe
Zosteropidae:

Oriental white-eye .... . Aosterops palpebrosa . . 1... .

NY WOR Re PR RP RM

NNN PRP BRP ee

aN nN = Ww
184

Family and common name

Coerebidae:

Green honeycreeper

Purple or yellow-legged
honeycreeper.

Plocidae:

Red-collared widowbird .

Jackson’s whydah

Masked weaver

Red bishop birdy") ne

Common silverbill or white-
throated Munia.

Bengalese finch (domesticated
form of striated mannikin=
white-backed Munia).

Black-headed Munia or
chestnut mannikin.

Nutmeg mannikin or spotted
Munia.

Cut-throat finch

Strawherry finch); . 1.) =: 4;

Common waxbill. .

Orange-cheeked waxbill .

Zebraginchve wh). as =

Java rice finch

Icteridae:

Proupial) 4 ee se eR

Yellow-headed marshbird

Giant icowbird . . .oVintisa ©

Shiny cowbird | 3° -~Sinsoa’ us

Colombian red-eyed cowbird.

Bronzed: cowbird . .- <n

Brown-headed cowbird

Red-winged blackbird

Purple grackle .

Thraupidae:

Blue tanager . Luts

Yellow-rumped tanager .

Masked crimson tanager

Flame-rumped tanager

Blue-winged mountain tana-
ger

Boddaert’s tanager

Fringillidae:

Black-chinned siskin

Screaming seedeater. .

eo fe fot tell® fay a

Cy Om One CR OMN OMe OC

ee es ee

SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965

Scientific name

Chlorophanes spiza .
Cyanerpes caeruleus

. .

Euplectes ardens .
Euplectes jacksont
Ploceus velatus . . . .
Euplictes orix . . .
Lonchura malabarica

Lonchura striata .

Lonchura malacca .. .

Lonchura punctulata

Amadina fasciata

a) st ti de Eke

eter) BOM yc

. . .

Estrilda amandava. . . .

Estrilda astrild . . . .
Estrilda melpoda

Poephila castanotis
Padda oryzivora

Tctenusgcterusiias - cS
Agelaius icterocephalus
Scaphidura oryzivora .
Molothrus bonariensts
Tangavius armenti .
Tangavius aenus
Molothrus ater .
Agelaius phoeniceus

we fel) Sein Retain)

. . . .

<< gor ees ee

Quiscalus quiscula . .. .

Thraupis virens . . . .
Ramphocelus icteronotus .
Ramphocelus nigrogularis

Ramphocelus flammigerus. .

Compsocoma flavinucha .

Tachyphonus rufus

Spinus barbatus .
Sporophila caerulescens

. .

Re
OrRFNF ORF RP RP WY

—=
NES Co

—
BO

rare
i=)
NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK

Family and common name
Ruddy-breasted seedeater . .
Chestnut-bellied seed finch
Buff-throated saltator . . . .
Blue-black grassquit
Ortolan bunting
Red-headed bunting

Scientific name
Sporophilaminuta ........
Oryzoborus angolinsis
Saltator maximus
Volatinia jacarina
Emberiza calandra
Emberiza brumiceps

@ ie a) a) ie his) ie

oir 8), © 48, Viele id) le le

a) te, 816) a ge See is

‘L2o 77 i a neon ie SSETEMUS CORATUUG (a5 oc oo) btn) os gl
Yellow-grass finch ..... MN SEMIES NUECOL OL ote a nha ORs
REPTILES
LoRICATA
Alligatoridae:
“DTC en ee Carmancsclerops. (yuo a sil st ot eye

Black caiman
American alligator
Chinese alligator
Crocodilidae:
Broad-nosed crocodile. . .
Aaricamcrocodile . . 5 ats
Narrow-nosed crocodile . .
Salt-water crocodile
American crocodile
Morelett’s crocodile
Gavialidae:

Indian gavial

ei fat, ie le! fd ee
of 0) gen Je L.'s

OA SOU et aR

ee oe a oe |

Chelydridae:
paappine tUrtle. . . . sins
Alligator snapping turtle
Kinosternidae:
Stinkpot
Mud turtle
Tropical mud turtle :
Central American mud turtle.
Emydidae:
Tropical American pointed-
nosed turtle.
Box turtle
Florida box turtle
Ornate box turtle
Kura kura box turtle . . .
Diamondback terrapin ‘
Ra tortie. a. ss Copia

Bil cease). (a: Jas" 6. et ve, Fe

Melanosuchus mger . ......
Alligator mississipiensis . . . 1...
Allepalay SINCTSES Sn), Ge tees ae

Osteolaemus tetraspis
Crocodnlus' nsloticus <5) =. alecree
Crocodylus cataphractus
Crocodylus porosus
Crocodylus acutus
Crocodylus moreletit

sl evopeks: | \eacyey ie;
Ory (othe ALE INIED of eNe
© 68 ere eae Ser yey ce oe

Cg 8) HHO yee eee Gere

Gavialis gangeticus

o ‘« © © (Fe) By Maree

CHELONIA

Chelydra serpentina .......
Macrochelys temminckii . .... .
Sternotherus odoratus

Kinosternon subrubrum
Kinosternon spurrelt . 2... ws.
Kinosternon cruentatum

s e.valtisi ® isife

Geoempda punctuaria .......
Terrapene carolina
Temahene 6. OUUrE ais \ rie ayes yi'enisi fs
Terrapene ornata ornata
Cuora amboinensis . . . . we es
Malaclemys terrapin

Graptemys geographica

SB DO RK RK & PO

i)

SB OoOWr Um
186

Family and common name
Barbour’s map turtle
Mississippi map turtle .
Painted turtle
Western painted turtle. .
Southern painted turtle .
Cumberland turtle .
South American red-lined

turtle.
Yellow-bellied turtle
Red-eared turtle .
Red-bellied turtle
Cooter ita
Peninsula cooter .. .
Florida red-bellied ‘urtle’
Central American turtle .
Cuban water turtle .
Higatee turtle
Chicken turtle .
Spotted turtle
Wood turtle .
Iberian pond turtle .
European water terrapin
European pond turtle .

Blanding’s or semibox turtle .

Reeves’ turtle: . 20.8

Testudinidae:

Duncan Island tortoise

Galapagos tortoise

Galapagos tortoise

Giant Aldabra tortoise.

South American tortoise .

Starstortoiseee, canstants,

Mountain tortoise.

Texas tortoise

Soft-shell tortoise .

Pelomedusidae:

African water turtle

African black mud turtle.

Amazon spotted turtle

Chelydidae:

South American side-necked
turtle.

Australian snake-necked
turtle.

Matamataturtle......
Small side-necked turtle . . .

SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965

Scientific name Number
Graptemys barbouri . . . , 4
Graptemys pseudogeographica fone ‘ 3
Chrysemys p. pitta’. «ee 10
Chrysemys p. belli. . . . . Laine 17
Chrysemys p. dorsalis . . . 1... . 1
Pseudemys scripta troosta . . . . . 7
Pseudemys s.\callirostris >.) yee 2
Pseudemyss:iscriptay) .. |) ene ‘ 18
Pseudemys’ Sielegans) 1). eee 36
Pseudemys rubriventns . . . . . 6
Pseudemys floridana 6
Pseudemys f. peninsularis 1
Pseudemys nelsoni 2
Pseudemys ornata 2
Pseudemys decussata 1
Pseudemys rugosa 1
Deirochelys reticularia Z
Clemmys guttata . . 2
Clemmys insculpta . 6
Clemmys leprosa . . 5
Clemmys caspica nivulata .... . 13
Emysorbicularts’=) 2 7. “See fi
Emys blandingit . 2
Chinemys reeves? . .. -. >) ee 4
Testudo ephippium. ...... 1
Testudo e. elephantopus . 1
Testudo elephantopus vicina 2
Testudo gigantea Mier 4
Testudo denticulata ...... 5
Teéstudovelegans . 6.) rae 5
Testudo emys . si) 3 t
Gopherus berlandiert . . . 2... 1
Malacochersus torniert . . 2... 4
Pelomedusa sinuata 2
Pelustos subniger 0, SOQMEES, 1
Podocnemes unifilis . 242 . “Ee 5
Batrathemys nasuia® < .- 7 sae 1
Chelodina longicollis . ...... 3
Ghelis finbriatay 4) cy os. oe 1
Hydromedusa tectifera ...... 2
NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK

Family and common name
Large side-necked turtle .
Krefft’s turtle
Murray turtle

South American gibba turtle .

Flat-headed turtle
Trionychidae:
Spiny softshell . .
Texas softshell .
African softshell

Gekkonidae:

(eakay PeckO. . 4... -

Day gecko

Banded gecko
Agamidae:

peamid lizard : .. . .

Blood-sucker lizard . .
Iguanidae:

Common iguana . .

Basilisk lizard

Rhinoceros iguana

Carolina anole. .

West Indies anole

Fence lizard . .

Blue spiny lizard . :

West Indies fence lizard .

Pheazard «5 3...
Scincidae:

Mourning skink. . . .

White’s skink. .

Four-lined skink

Five-lined skink

Great Plains skink

Stump-tailed skink .
Gerrhosauridae:

African plated lizard

Madagascar plated lizard

Plated lizard ste
Lacertidae:

European lizard

Sand lizard’ 5; <ronenies .

Teeidae:
Caiman lizard .

Ameiva lizard

Screntific name
Phrynops hilaru .
Emydura kreffti
Emydura macquarrit
Mesoclemmys gibba
Platemys platycephala .

Trionyx ferox .
Trionyx f. emoryt
Trionyx triunguts

SAURIA

Gekko gecko
Phelsuma sp
Coleonyx variegatus

Agama stellio .
Calotes versicolor

Iguana iguana
Basiliscus sp .
Cyclura cornuta

Anolis carolinensis .
Anolis conspersus
Sceloporus undulatus
Sceloporus cyanogenys .
Letocephalus varius . .

Pica plica .

Egernia luctuosa .
Egernia whitet
Eumeces tetragrammus
Eumeces fasciatus
Eumeces obsoletus
Tiliqua rugosa

AONOSGUTUS SD). ayiheaorn os

Konosaurus madagascariensis .

Gerrhosaurus major

Lacerta strigata trilineata
Lacerta agilis. . .

Dracaena guianensis
Ameiva ameiva praesignis

187

Number

mB hm WH WH ~)

hwo RK oO

26

Leal
TRS ey Ce

—_— SS Re eS PO
188

Family and common name

Black tegu :

Spotted whiptail .
Cordylidae:

South African spiny lizard .

African spiny lizard
Varanidae:

Komodo dragon .

Dumeril’s monitor

Malayan monitor
Helodermatidae:

Gila monster Neues Wee

Mexican beaded lizard . .

Beaded lizard, black phase
Anguidae:

European glass lizard, or slow

worm.

Slender glass lizard

European glass lizard . . . .

Texas alligator lizard . .

Boidae:
Common anaconda
Trinidad tree boa
Cook’s tree boa
Boa/constrictor - : 2 .
Emperor boa
Sand boa
Sand boa .
Sand boa
Indian python . .
Regal python
Blood python
African python

Acrochordidae:
Elephant trunk snake .

Colubridae:
New Guinea tree snake
Eastern kingsnake. . . . . .
Speckled kingsnake
California kingsnake
Florida kingsnake
Sonoran kingsnake .
Scarlet kingsnake
Tropical kingsnake
Eastern milk snake

Moe rele Me lal ve!

OF Oy, ON OMI BPE Sire

etree. ie) uven isle

ey eh Gall ea eleven te

ar), ptt ce! Miler ie

PheaOrpetle Ate 9 OP a

. . ° . e

SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965

Scientific name
Tupinambis nigropunctatus. . . . .
Cnemidophorus gularis . .....
Cordylus vandami perkoensis
Cordylus polyzonus. . . .....
Varanus komodoensis .

Varanus dumerili. .

Varanus;saluator . . . -\ioietiee
Heloderma suspectum
Heloderma h. horridum
Heloderma h. alvernensis

Anous fragilis... = 1 ne
Ophisaurus attenuatus

Ophisaurus apodus . ;
Gerrhonotus liocephalus infernalis

e (¢ Ssh ellie ome

SERPENTES

Eunectes murinus

Epicrates ford .
Corallus enydris cooki .
Constrictor c. constrictor
Constrictor ¢. imperator
Eryx johni
Eryx jaculus
Eryx conica

Python molurus
Python reticulatus
Python curtis
Python sebae

©: | jay (lem ne ree!
ee ee ere Mo! GS
®, 10. |\e) | Ottemmre,
«a. je: (on feluns
o), =) 16) | feetwene,
Cae wee eC ee ue CT Oo
ete) jes ie! pls. fo; © Sivas!
Ce er me LC

Ce en Cie Ps Om
o.oo te eee
ee ot fe ie Ae te orete ens

eee: Vel) fe)” Ge” a ee

Acrochordus javanicus
Bugairmegulans’ ;_ Po Sa eme
Lampropeltis getulus getulus
Lampropeltis g. holbrooki
Lampropeltis g. californiae
Lampropeltis g. floridana
Lampropeltis g. splendida
Lampropeltis doliata doliata oe
Lampropeltis d. polyzona. . . .. .
Lampropeltis d. triangulum

OR Ws BO sence or)

Number

a

Se ff Dee Re Re Oe fp uo

—_

NFP RP RP WOOD WR
NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK

Family and common name
Coastal Plain milk snake
Western milk snake. . .
PPraiie kingsnake . . .. . .
Biolemnake 6. 2 6 eo. sels
Texas lined snake
Eastern garter snake
Eastern black-necked garter

snake.
Ribbon snake
Eastern hog-nosed snake
Common water snake. . .
Broad-banded water snake .
Red-bellied water snake . .
Blotched water snake ... .
Diamond-backed water snake.
Brown water snake .... .
Grand Cayman water snake .
Eastern indigo snake
Texas indigo snake .... .
Diackwat snake ... . 2 «
Black rat snake, albino ae
Yellow ratsnake.. .....
Texas rat snake. .
Corn snake
Great Plains rat snake
Asiatic striped rat snake .
Japanese ratsnake .....
Chinese rat snake
Aesculapian snake
African house snake
Banded rat snake. . .
European racer
Northern black racer ... .
European racer
Pink coachwhip
Northern ringneck snake
Eastern worm snake
Brown’s snake . ES
Great Basin gopher snake
Eamisackenee et fil ee
ener o.oo a eo ee a
MME SHAKE: ys Kee ky ss
ven Stakes: 53 5 TIA ka
Green-headed tree snake

Slaswsnakee Sse a ss

oo een a. 18

el et et a Ae) a)! daw:

elk ot jsp ae re

siete nite, et ie

Scientific name

Lampropeltis d. temporalis .
Lampropeltis d. gentilis .

Lampropeltis c. calligaster . . . .

Lampropeltis c. rhombomaculata .
Tropidoclonion lineatum texanum .
Thamnophis sirtalis sirtalis

Thamnophis cyrtopsts ocellata. . . .

Thamnophis sauritus . . ... .
Heterodon platyrhinos platyrhinos. . .

Natrix s. sipedon. . . . .

Natrix s.confluens .. .. .

Natrix erythrogaster erythrogaster

Natrix et ansversa. we sn
Natnxeahombifera . «ss 3s
Nairn taxispilote, os aie

Tretanorhinus variabilis lewisi

Drymarchon corais coupert . . . .

Drymarchon c. erebennus

Elaphe obsoleta obsoleta . . . . .

Elpahe o. obsoleta . . .
Elaphe o. quadrivittata
Elaphe o. lindheimeri . .

Elaphe guttata guttata. . . ...

Elaphe g. emoryi

i te ae ee

PSGREATRE Eo 3 SS ak

Elaphe climacophora
Elaphe carinata .
Elaphe longissima .
Boaedon fuliginosus
Dinodon rufozonatum .
Coluber viridiflavus .

Coluber constrictor constrictor . . . .

Coluber jugularis caspius .
Masticophis flagellum testaceus

Diadophis punctatus edwardsit. . . .
Carphophis amoenus amoenus . . . .

Storeria dekayt
Pituophis catentfer deserticola . .
Pituophis c. say .

Pituophis sp

Stmocephalus capensis .

Lycodon flavomaculatum . . .. .

Leptophis mexicanus
Abia CePANs <3 Fe ee

*On deposit at another zoo or sanctuary.

. . . .

bie, Sw) i | s

. . . .

189
Number

= ee rR he eR

ArePPR PRP RPP ORR

%
_

Deere NP RPP PRP RP RP RP AD NN FP UP ADHD AL
190 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965

Family and common name

Elapidae:

Indian cobra

Taiwan cobra

African black cobra

King cobra wee

Many-banded krait .

Banded krait
Viperidae:

Gaboon viper

Russell’s viper .

Saw-scale viper
Crotalidae:

Copperhead . . :

Southern copperhead .

Northern copperhead . . .

Broad-banded copperhead .

Cottonmouth.

Western cottonmouth .

Cantil ;

Pygmy rattlesnake

Green palm viper

Green viper .

Mamushi .

Habu .

Western diamondback rattle-

snake.
Timber rattlesnake .
Canebrake rattlesnake
Mohave diamondback rattle-
snake.

AMPHIBIANS
CAUDATA
Cryptobranchidae:
Giant salamander Megalobatrachus japonicus . .
Amphiumidae:
Congo eel . ats Amphiuma means
Ambystomatidae:

Tiger salamander .
Spotted salamander
Salamandridae:
Japanese red-bellied newt
Red-spotted newt
Broken-striped newt
European newt

Scientific name

Naja naja .

Naja n.atra .
Naja melanoleuca
Ophiophagus hannah
Bungarus multicinctus
Bungarus fasciatus .

Bitis gabonica
Vipera russell
Echis carinatus

Ancistrodon contortrix .
Ancistrodon ¢. contortrix .
Ancistrodon c. mokeson
Ancistrodon c. laticinctus
Ancistrodon p. piscivorus
Ancistrodon p. leucostoma
Ancistrodon bilineatus .
Sistrurus miliarus

Trimeresurus gramineus .

Trimeresurus sp.
Trimeresurus elegans .
Trimeresurus flavoviridis
Crotalus atrox

Crotalus h. horridus .

Crotalus h. atricaudatus .
Crotalus scutulatus .

Ambystoma tigrinum
Ambystoma maculatum

Diemictylus pyrrhogaster .

Diemictylus viridescens viridescens
Diemictylus viridescens dorsalis

Triturus sp.

ANP NR RP RPP RheYPNYN NY ND

—_ —
NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK

Family and common name Scientific name Number
European newt .... . AEGELUTUS SPE ic: (enon oe ih vo Ke ey) 4
Fire salamander Salamandra salamandra. . . . . 6

Proteidae:
Mudpuppy SNCCHIFUS STS. enh tot Serta fe 2
SALIENTIA
Bufonidae:
American toad. ... . Bufo terrestris americanus 1
Howlerstdad' . : . : .*} Bufo woodhousei fowleri. . . . . . 1
Blomberg’s:toad .- 20-2. Bufo blombergi 1
Grmbtead.-.... . . mney Bufotmarinus fool Wigton 6, LUA 8
NWatenaex toad. . . . won Wg ONCGIAMtta i ks wo 1
G@eeemrigpad- << 2 2 2 2 ee Bufo rds. 26s Ss © See 1
Wobawitoagd. 2. 2. ty Bufo peltocephalus . . . 5
Crested tropical American Bufo typhonius 2
toad.
Colorado River toad Bus Oraloariys2 0 Bc no 2 eae 2
Western'toad. ... .. Bajo borease, os. 3 SP 1
Pipidae:
Surinam toad IDM RIBACRS 57) a8 jhers bool 4
African clawed frog. . . . . AGNOPUS MAES ws a, ss 3
Congo pygmy frog Efymenochius spe. 5s. +, = vs 2
Hylidae:
Sravaincearoe 2% 2 i... Tia casio = 5 2 a Pe 8 1
fivece mom srs 2s Hyla rubra. 1
Canyon tree frog... ... Hyla arenicolor 1
Green tree frog Fiplaveinerea 6. Ch 8 1
arkinpiree frog. ... . Hyla gratiosa . 1
Microhylidae:
Narrow-mouthed toad Miucrohyla carolinensis . ..... 2
Ranidae:
American bull frog . . Rana catesbeiana .... . 1
(E020 ih) Rana clamitans melanotta . ... . 1
Reopard frog, ; <2 ios Rana pipiens . 25
FISHES
NEOCERATODONTOIDEI
Protopteridae:
EMMOMSHR ict. so 53. .ctnbtes week PAO PTAMS SP. ot. ikl ae 1
ENCHELYCEPHALOIDEI
Teleostidae:
reshiWaper Cel os. ca SSPOBIAMGNEUS SDs 5. oi ah estat ait 1
192

SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965

Family and common name Scientific name
OsTARIOPHYSOIDEI
Characidae:
Parana se cnceeeaist  ee 3 es Serrasalmus'natiert . a i eee
Blackstettae goku Se ele Sis Gymnocorymbus ternetzi. . . 2.
Metynnis, or silver dollar Metynnis maculatus. . . =)
Cyprinidae:
LebraGanio ws) i eeaew ei. Brachydanio rerio . . . : sememe
iger shar by is esd) "a So ee Barbus partipentagona . .....
White Cloud Mountain fish Tanichthys albonubes . . 1... .
Goldfish gis 4 50) a ee Carassius auratus. . . . .DBOE ROB:
Loricariidae:
South American sucking Hypostomus plecostomus . . ... .
catfish.
Black’ bullheade Pere Tcfalurus:melas’ "2 3 eee
Electrophoridae:
Bilertric Chis jay stsenie tehaen tone Electrophorus electricus . .....
CyPRINODONTOIDEI
Poeciliidae:
Flag-tailed guppy ..... Lebistes veticulatus . . . : “soa
Guppy ise. Js ye baat Lehistesveticulatus . . .. 1 eae
Black mollie 20. 20.3. 2 ag Mollienesia latipinna. ......
Platy,.or moonfish,. 5 455 Atphophorus maculatus ......
Green swordtail.....\... . - & Xiphopherus sp ...0. - SOGIE
Red iswordtatlondiask gale. Xiphophorus sp... . » sa50aae
PERCOMORPHOIDEI
Anabantidae:
Kissing gourami ..... . Helostoma temmincki . ......
Paradisecfishiinher. 3 2. se Macropodus opercularis . .....
Centrarchidae:
Common bluegill. . .... Lepomis macrochirus . ......
Cichlidae:
Peacockicichlid (9.2.25 he Astronotus. ocellatus . . . “iam
Jack Dempsey fish’. ss: Cichlasoma biocellatum ......
African mouthbreeder Pelmatochromis guentheri .... .
Angelfish iui. i) See Pierophyllum eimeketa . . 2... .
Gobiidae:
Bumblebee fish ©.) 5 5 2 °*,. Brachygobius doriae. . . .....

Number

ead

= = bP

— = Sd pe
NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK 193

ARTHROPODS
DECAPODA
Family and common name Scientific name Number
Cenobitidae:
Land hermit crab ..... Coenobita clypeatus. . . . 1... 6
Key West hermit crab . . . Coenobita diogenes . . ...... 13
ARANEIDA
Aviculariidae:
Warantula 4.65 aff. sec Eysypelmassp,sleiys -stlte pores 1
ORTHOPTERA
Blattidae:
Tropical giant cockroach . . Blaberus giganteus. ......-. 35
MOLLUSKS
PULMONATA
Planorbidae:
[EC Sc) a on he Flelisoma tridalvis ys. aloe a at oe 30

REPORT OF THE VETERINARIAN

The posterior paralysis of Nikumba, the male lowland gorilla, has
been mentioned in both the 1963 and 1964 reports of the veterinarian.
In order to complete the record of his illness, it should be mentioned
that mating has been observed on several occasions, and apparently
he has made a complete physical and physiological recovery.

The Komodo dragon, whose infection was discussed in last year’s
report, has completely recovered. Fecal cultures were made monthly,
and in no instance were amoebae or flagellates indicated.

The operation of the veterinary section was greatly facilitated by
the construction of a one-story addition on the rear of the hospital,
making it possible to remove animal holding cages from the building
and to place them in the new addition. Within the additional space,
it was also possible to provide an autopsy room with outside access,
thus eliminating the transport of dead animals and birds through the
hospital proper.

Several interesting developments strictly within the field of veterinary
medicine occurred during the past year. On July 4, 1964, the male
Grevy zebra was observed to have a dangling left hind foot. The

789-427-6624
194 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965

stud was immobilized, and X-rays taken in the corral showed a double
transverse fracture of the third metacarpal bone. While the animal
was under anesthesia a plaster cast with a walking stirrup was applied,
permitting relatively normal movement of the zebra. The cast was
not disturbed for 12 weeks; following its removal, gradually increasing
amounts of weight were placed on the foot. —Two months later the
animal was moving normally and had made a complete recovery.

On June 7, 1965, a 400-pound Aldabra tortoise was found lame in
the right front leg. X-rays taken in the enclosure revealed the presence
of an oblique spiral fracture of the right forelimb, and a cast was
applied. To assist in necessary movement, the tortoise was secured
on a mover’s dolly with ropes across its back. The cast as originally
applied was lost the following weekend, and it was decided to immo-
bilize the leg by using a part of the dolly as a splint. Relaxation of
the right forelimb was much more pronounced, and a cast was applied
that completely immobilized the fracture site. This cast will remain
approximately 8 weeks, and further X-rays will be taken. The
tortoise is separated from its cage mates, moves around effortlessly,
and takes full advantage of the wheels on the dolly to support its
weight.

Cultural studies made on buccal and enteric infections in snakes
and lizards in the reptile collection revealed a pure culture of Pseudo-
monas aruginosa which was chlorotetracycline sensitive. A prophy-
lactic program was established in which all snakes and lizards receive
chlorotetracycline (soluble aureomycin) in their drinking water for
5 days, followed by 9 days of clear water. Since initiation of this pro-
gram in mid-January 1965, deaths from necrotic gingivitis and necrotic
enteritis in the reptile collection have been reduced to one or two
specimens a month.

An informal agreement was reached with the veterinary pathology
section of the Armed Forces Institute of Pathology, Walter Reed
Army Medical Center, involving the assignment, on a weekly basis,
of a staff member to perform autopsies and to observe the clinically
ill animals in the collection. This collaboration has been extremely
beneficial both to the AFIP, because of their interest in comparative
micropathology, and to the veterinary section, because of the Zoo’s
interest in having a more definitive statement as to the cause of deaths
in the collecton.

The staff of the veterinary section was increased by one medica
technologist, Mrs. Janet Davis, who joined the section on March 1
She is a graduate of Oregon State University and has had a broad
range of experience in Hawaii and more recently at George Wash-
ington Hospital.
NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK 195

The veterinary section procured the temporary services of three
university students through the summer months. They are assisting
in the routine operation of the veterinary hospital, as well as in animal
care and treatment.

The veterinary section was fortunate in having the cooperation and
assistance of various specialists in the field of clinical investigation and
medicine. Among these are Dr. A. G. Carlson of the Mayo Clinic in
Rochester, Minn.; Dr. F. R. Lucas, director of the Livestock Sanitary
Laboratory in Centerville, Md.; Dr. Anthony Morris of the National
Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Md.; Gen. Joe M. Blumberg and Col.
F, M. Garner and their staff of the Armed Forces Institute of Pathology.

The following papers were prepared for publication in the Inter-
national Zoo Yearbook, volume 6 (London Zoological Society): Use of
a Walking Cast in a Third Metatarsal Fracture in the Zebra, by Clinton W.
Gray, D.V.M.; Amoebiasis in the Komodo Dragon (Varanus komodoensis),
by Clinton W. Gray, with Leonard C. Marcus, V.M.D. of the Armed
Forces Institute of Pathology, W. C. McCarten, consultant in enteric
microbiology, and Thomas Sappington, M.D.; Treatment of Pseudo-
monas Infections in the Snake and Lizard Collection at the National Koological
Park, by Clinton W. Gray, Janet Davis, and W. G. McCarten.

The veterinarian attended a meeting of the American Veterinary
Medical Association in Chicago and a seminar on biomedical telemetry
at San Francisco. He visited zoos in San Francisco and San Diego
and the Penrose Research Laboratory in Philadelphia.

Two specimens that died during the year may have established
longevity records: (1) A Malay porcupine (Acanthion brachyura), col-
lected in the vicinity of Pematang Siantar, Sumatra, by the National
Geographic-Smithsonian Institution Expedition to the East Indies,
was received on September 28, 1937. It died on January 12, 1965,
after 27 years 3 months and 15 days in the Zoo. (2) An African
lungfish (Protopterus annectens), received on June 10, 1942, as a gift from
Dr. Thomas Barbour, director of the Museum of Comparative Zoology,
Harvard University, was collected in Uganda in 1937. It fed on meat,
liver, hearts, frogs, and tadpoles and had many ailments throughout
the years, but through use of mud baths managed to pull through. It
was in the mud bath for a month prior to its death on September 25,
1964. It had been at the Zoo for 22 years 3 months 15 days and is
known to have been in captivity for 5 years previously.

Following are autopsy statistics for the mortality which occured at the
National Zoological Park during the past fiscal year, and a table of
comparison with the past 6 years:
196 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965

AUTOPSY STATISTICS, 1959-65

Mortality, fiscal year 1965

Total mortality
Rep- Meas past 7 years
Cause tiles* Birds mals
No autopsy, not enough remains,
Otten s IUD) Wake, sine aks es 150 40 i A 1S a a 2
Attrition (within 14 days after
ALLIVAl)e Mra ayn des wean 5 64 15s|2 1960: Se S2
Systemic) disorders j: i244 29450: 51 71 33 q)51961565) oly
Infectiousidiseases s wy-nisylsys eee 0 6 Sol 1 962k age Os:
Injuries, accidents, killed by cage
TIALES, MObISATIOS .\haits cil. plone 14 71 21.,| 196328.) ¢2 coo
Huthanasia ys Nes wee Vea pees) 0 2 12)\ WS GAeee ee Oe
Miscellaneous (parasites, stillborn,
shock) itt. Wy sCh, D4 ec REIT 6 1 LO) ws eoeeeeeeciane
INokcanse determined) oy5 oan.) 45 44 iL 4s] poate resale cairo
Mota Mal sgusawey tel senses 269 299 117\| £965. 05.9 5653

*Included with reptiles are amphibians, fishes, insects.

VISITORS

In August 1961 a planned attendance survey was begun at the Zoo
under the direction of Albert Mindlin, statistician of the Management
Office, District of Columbia, and was carried out by the police division.
The following figures give the total estimated numbers of visitors who
remained in the Zoo for at least an hour:

{96 MD) OOS sed. tir Beeb ehebns kolo aes
dope SiO Ol sor Lay hover haghwuln Iga
PEArRyEqa\N”) Witlnayhh she wNdalib Reo ae Rien
WO6HRIL LV TECT Wi abane La) Belgsiied eed. eee

Visiting hours at the Zoo were lengthened for the summer months.
Beginning July 1, 1964, buildings remained open until 6 p.m.

Thirteen groups of handicapped children and 24 busloads of patients
from St. Elizabeth’s Hospital were escorted through the Zoo by various
police officers throughout the year. Six busloads of children from
Junior Village also visited the Zoo this year. On May 8 a total of
7,398 School Safety Patrol children, transported in 205 buses, visited
the Park.
NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK 197

Seventy members of the Virginia Herpetological Society met in the
reptile house on January 9. Films were shown, and snakebite and its
treatment were discussed. —The Washington Biologists’ Field Club held
its annual meeting in the reptile house on April 9. The Maharajah
of Mysore visited the Zoo on January 9 especially to see the Indian
elephant, Ambika, that was given largely through his efforts to the
children of America, from the children of India in 1961.

ESTIMATED NUMBER OF VISITORS FOR FISCAL YEAR 1965

Daly (1964) ie 780,400 January (1965). ..... 40, 065
PUNEAIE A we Pgh (el etl Sis os |e 823\47/5iteHebruary = 62 <4, ale 6 : 206, 200
SepECEADEL. | eet epee S45 S75 wo March 303 sheets yel  vaas 312, 990
Wistabece | tals ces se 297. S56) ADEN gto ci ns Cpe mbar 562, 640
November 4... - = + - BOS NOS. UW May ays Sela Lies a) an Ae 708, 485
Mecemper isa, <9. + +s Se” | EDEN ar ta aes, apaoema is 490, 427

otal SVS Sea pee 4, 536, 256

About 2 p.m. each day the cars parked in the Zoo are counted and
listed according to the State or country from which they come. This
is, of course, not a census of the cars coming to the Zoo but is valuable
in showing the percentage of attendance by States of people in private
automobiles. Many District of Columbia, Maryland, and Virginia
cars come to the Zoo to bring guests from other States. The tabulation
for fiscal year 1965 is as follows:

Percentage Percentage
Marylanidi ts. ss + +, +, + 3559 oe CONTIECHICUE sett. t-0,-) awe ures i
oe ee a oar 26: 5o South: Carolma. 2925.3 20% 6
District of Columbia .... . 15.8; California... 02420.) =. dio .6
Rennsvivanial ol.) 3 5° CSRs) Oe Res ee ea ge CeO AN Se | .6
Se 2G) WHELEoAMT Soe 3 eels 26
forth Carolina .... ./.. Zn) hennessee: ell 0-10-) eee 75
LOS" |S a ai PeGr A vlimnoicw es eee ee nee lars a2
CURIE >) cya: Ac ie Sea (Georpiay es A as a LAE 25
WEStNMINPERIAnc ol afsleos « ie Spst Delaware cox! LAwk kad oflees .4
Bleraat| ON CsFy AT ON FI, MPRdaHAaIOR (2. ADIT TeIOD on)
Massachusetts: <9: cep ieyis\G 8 Totalmicos tastonsv ¢ 97.2

The cars that made up the remaining 2.8 percent came from the
remainder of the United States as well as foreign countries. _

On days of even small attendance there are cars parked in the Zoo
representing foreign countries, territories, and other States.
198 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965
NUMBER OF BUS GROUPS VISITING THE ZOO IN FISCAL YEAR 1965

Number of Number in

Locality groups groups

Alabamag hie tarbd es CH ae Bs ST te 12 485
Arkansasw4. aces rch alhdivernce Ocuaqartme? se Gok < 1 38
Gonnecticut.-veuieie ee) te ae cee ane a : 9 332
WDSLA WATE apc: ee-balcleteupcuine kW usenin ic mene pha BaKoune re Site 31 139
Wistrictiol Columabiay ssi) sy -cved oy eee tn te ee ers 1, 098 21,355
BlOnicateoye WAAR SEAR SF TRA aD io) hos Pouce) oon rok eee 111 3, 875
Georeiae sR Bean MRNAS Setar, MSE, F, Ohaek cea eee 63 PoP xeiTh
ATE A PL ee WE ESE eo ie Bs ale co eae 10 318
leary Saad so acid Loundt dn Oo boOn 0 CeO Simos Oo: 0 4 135
OWA eS ea ead heh aie. ES) Seated) erepen ciot Bataat dette dls 5 207
Keasas et Biotaieeriss ater ten scitoultcy to ed cemeecr si temic, Meu uteeieutelcs 2 80
eeritackyn a acta tal ee atoms Meee Day ete ic! catia Saverio eee Pai) 837
IVETE Nf ee tee a Vette Moe Moo eh tea Nene, ie ise Neuere Sinetetets 8 331
Neary lets te: Beetle tea es Non Na) Veet ol ry Mires Notler Sewn ate tener 1, 684 61, 818
IVET CEI ATIN MS, opie cent ce Nema e Meh volte) Nininite, Get ial sol dte| aia 9 325
IMbivIETNN Gg 6 doo 6 OM os c Sanity ion arealeean ttt 3 110
AVATSEIRSIHOPOI eRe alee rey rete ta) Pel eh oie Pe AA Ee bay ane ge 3 110
Montana ttt ts oie, wake. Wet Seeet realy, coche irene, Wises 2 79
iNew Jerse yas wiely. Cepielis ST ere) WUC ee 42 1, 641
New, (MexI60 4c} sini oomed > oi) Oo pearges Sreeh me Peis esi Be 1 35
INEWay Orkin seo) ene aera open lear See, Cree a 285 10, 017
INORth Caroling |) ios) c's ap) eons pa hel mtobach aah ie rede 522 9, 882
INorthaDakotare cu myer cee mom snren ouacrmc ats Sahin sire! 1 M3
Ohio MET GO OTA, TA PO, Ne BOIS eae, We 19 617
Pennsylvania! <<) © Je. so sete a yee ot Ne Oe Bene 936 16, 090
South*@arolina’ 75 7. cuectes eo) lo ener eared esl eee = hae 46 1, 662
SWennesse@aied 2 kits, & ed he ed eRe ee) eee 70 2, 726
SOXAS: | 53.45 450 fansite. yo Aer Mee Soe OR olny otic Jott pt ohne 4 AS Y7
VALPINIA 4. f.066. Me, te pha eee? Seaniiee Ls Galt, anata A 1, 414 53, 303
Wrest Virginia ts to 45 25 <c:r otek etait co eee ot st 104 S,oat
Wiscomsinls te te foe to. We Ne es RO PE a a 1 37
Oreign PrOUPS <<) f. 4 4 0s tee ee Men Ariane 536

otal =. 6 tS sh ete Cela ame 6, 520 194, 456

New construction in connection with the redevelopment program
for the National Zoological Park includes provision for parking areas.
New parking areas have been completed under this program and during
the next fiscal year more spaces with greater accessibility to display
areas will be available to the public.

FINANCES

Funds for the operation of the National Zoological Park are appro-
priated annually under the District of Columbia Appropriation Act.
NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK 199

The operation and maintenance appropriation for fiscal year 1965
totaled $1,739,250, which was $141,894 more than for the preceding
year. The increase consisted of $24,255 to cover salary increases for
general-schedule employees in accordance with Public Law 88-426;
$49,995 to cover salary increases for wage-board employees; $31,580
for within-grade salary advancements for both general-schedule and
wage-board employees; $3,504 for annualization of one position
established in fiscal year 1964; $4,300 to establish one position; $6,197
for employee’s compensation; $7,000 for animal food; $10,000 for the
purchase of animals; $1,600 for the replacement of guns; and $3,463
for miscellaneous supplies and equipment.

Of the total appropriation, 85 percent ($1,478,641) was used for
salaries and related personnel costs and 15 percent ($259,924) for the
maintenance and operation of the Zoo. Included in the latter figure
were $88,450 for animal food; $31,140 for fuel and heating; $23,280 for
materials for building construction and repairs; $15,500 for electricity;
$18,700 for the purchase of animals; $6,900 for telephone, postal, and
telegraph services; and $6,735 for veterinarian equipment and supplies.
The balance of $69,219 in operational funds was expended for other
items, including freight, sundry supplies, uniforms, gasoline, road re-
pairs, equipment replacement, and new equipment.

POLICE DIVISION

New construction and general facelifting throughout the Park have
thrown an extra burden on the police division. Patrolling in areas
where trucks and bulldozers are working is important for the safety of
the visitors. Shifts have been changed and additional police assigned
to these areas.

For the first time in 35 years, new 38-calibre pistols were bought and
issued to every man. Under the watchful eyes of the pistol instructors
(Lt. Wolfe, Sgt. Grubbs, Pvts. Porter and McGoldrick) the officers are
showing a marked improvement in their scores. Each man has been
awarded a badge to be worn on his uniform, denoting his qualification.

One new scooter was added to the police division’s motor vehicles,
and others are available from the garage when needed.

Refresher courses in first aid were again conducted by Sgt. A. L.
Canter and Pvt. D. R. Bowman.

Pvts. H. M. Bell, N. Bowe, V. T. McGoldrick, 8. L. Middleton, and
F. E. Reilly attended Juvenile School sponsored by the Metropolitan
Police Department. This was an 8-week course, and all received
certificates at its completion.
200 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965

During the year the police handled 1,141 traffic violations, 31 auto-
mobile accidents, 123 juvenile arrests, 83 truancy cases, 37 criminal
arrests, 177 miscellaneous complaints, and 149 police investigations.
Sixty-nine adults and 278 children were either reprimanded or re-
moved from the Park for misbehavior. The first-aid unit treated 716
cases, most of them minor.

Through the efforts of Lt. J. R. Wolfe, blood procurement officer,
the American Red Cross Blood Bank received 41 pints of blood from
Zoo employees during the year, making a total of 829 pints reserved
for them in the Blood Bank. Twenty-three pairs of eyeglasses and
sunglasses, found and unclaimed, were donated to the D.C. Chapter of
the Society for the Prevention of Blindness. Fifteen bags of clothing
and miscellaneous articles, found and unclaimed, were turned over to
the Goodwill Industries.

During the year a total of 10,837 visitors stopped at the police station
requesting information or assistance.

SAFETY SUBCOMMITTEE

The National Zoological Park Safety Subcommittee held monthly
meetings to suggest and discuss recommendations to the director for
safety improvements.

An emergency alarm system was installed in the reptile house to be
used in the event of snakebite. Under the direction of the safety officer,
this system is under constant surveillance to assure proper functioning,
and test drills are held periodically.

Arrangements were made with the General Services Administration
to have employees receive training in firefighting and fire control.
GSA fire inspectors made the annual fire inspection of the Zoo, along
with members of the safety subcommittee, and their cooperation was
very much appreciated.

Members of the subcommittee periodically inspected all buildings,
grounds, and equipment and made a careful examination of the newly
renovated birdhouse area prior to its opening to the public; hazards
were reported and corrective action was recommended.

Routine inspection of roads, walkways, steps, and public areas has
continued as a safeguard to employees and visitors.

MAINTENANCE, CONSTRUCTION, GROUNDS

The mechanical division was occupied with the routine task of
maintaining the buildings and facilities of the National Zoological
NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK 201

Park. Interspersed with routine were such unusual jobs as building a
hydroponics room for growing grass and enlarging the room where
worms and insects are raised for animal food.

An addition was made to the building serving as veterinary hospital.
Two old storerooms in the administration building were cleared out
and completely remodeled to serve as offices for the director. The
entire mechanical force joined in readying the remodeled birdhouse
for its opening.

New construction necessitated preparing quarters for many of the
animals. A barn and paddock at the Garvin Tankersley farm in
Boyds, Md., were made suitable for the zebras quartered there while
their new Zoo enclosures were being built.

Painting is a never-ending task. This year the interiors of the lion,
monkey, reptile, and small-mammal houses were painted.

The mechanical force made 190 new park benches and set them up
throughout the Park for the comfort and convenience of visitors. The
electrician installed a much-needed fluorescent lighting system in the
puma house.

Work of the grounds division included the planting of 93 trees, 400
evergreens, 700 azaleas, 1,000 bulbs, and 3,500 annuals.

Trees were planted along the creek banks near the pistol range, the
restaurant patio, behind the small mammal building, and along the
sidewalk at the crosswalk. Azaleas were planted between the restaurant
and the police station, around the elephant house guard rails, elephant
house hill, birdhouse, and at the crossroads. Various bulbs and annuals
were used in the flowerbeds, new and old, throughout the Park, extend-
ing color in the beds from early spring well into winter. Lightning
protection on two large trees near the administration building was
installed.

The grounds department removed dead wood from 100 trees over
walks, roads, and public areas: felled 35 trees that were dead or in bad
condition or considered noxious to animals; filled cavities and traced
wounds on badly damaged trees; removed stumps from lawns; cut
numerous perches for bird and animal cages, and cut foliage to be used
as food for animals.

Major projects included assisting in the preparation of the birdhouse
for opening, setting out 2,000 new plants, installing large perches,
scouting the wooded areas for old logs and stumps and placing them
around the inside cages.

Gifts of plants were received from the District Waterworks, Botanical
Gardens, National Bureau of Standards, Glendale Nursery, Walter
Reed Hospital, Naval Hospital, and the management of the annual
Flower and Garden Show.
202 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965
COOPERATION

At all times special efforts are made to maintain friendly contacts
with other Federal and State agencies, private concerns and individuals,
and scientific workers for mutual assistance. As a result, the Zoo
receives much help and advice and many valuable animals, and in turn
it furnishes information and, whenever possible, animals it does not
need.

Special acknowledgment is due William Taback and John Pulaski,
in the office of the Dispatch Agent in New York City, and Stephen E.
Lato, Dispatch Agent in San Francisco, who are frequently called upon
to clear shipments of animals coming from abroad, often at times of
personal inconvenience.

When it is necessary to quarantine animals coming into this country,
they are taken to the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s station in
Clifton, N.J. During the past year, Dr. H. A. Waters and Andy
Goodel, two of the officials stationed there, were most cooperative in
keeping the National Zoological Park informed as to the well-being of
animals and birds being held there for quarantine.

Animals that died in the Zoo are offered to the U.S National Museum.
If the Museum does not need them as study specimens or as exhibits,
they are sent on request to research workers in other institutions.
Specialists at the Museum are always willing to be of help in identifying
rare specimens acquired at the Zoo.

On May 7, 1965, under the auspices of the U.S. Forest Service,
Smokey Bear, living symbol of forest fire prevention, received a certifi-
cate and gold-medal award. These awards were presented by Lassie,
star collie of the Lassie television series.

Through the generosity of Stuart T. Saunders, chairman of the
board, Pennsylvania Railroad Co., and John K. Murphy, public
relations director, the Zoo received on June 23, 1965, a large carved
granite eagle, one of 22 which graced the Pennsylvania Railroad
Station in New York City from 1910 to 1965. At the demolition of
the building, it was given to the National Zoo. Designed by the ar-
chitectural firm of McKim, Mead & White, it weighs 5,700 pounds
and stands 5 feet 4 inches high. It is now facing the plaza in front of
the birdhouse.

The National Zoological Park cooperated with the National Capital
Parks and lent small animals to Park naturalists and to the Nature
Center in Rock Creek Park for demonstration.

The U.S. Army, Cameron Station, Va., again lent the grounds
department a stump chipper, to be used in clearing unsightly stumps
from Zoo lawns.
NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK 203

On April 24, Sgt. Canter of the police force took six boxes of Crotalidae
antivenin to Children’s Hospital for a patient who had been bitten
by a snake. These boxes were replaced by Children’s Hospital the
next day.

Vultures were made available to Betsy Garrett Bang, School of
Hygiene and Public Health, Johns Hopkins University, for her studies.
Results of her research were published as The Nasal Organs of the
Black and Turkey Vultures; a Comparative Study of the Cathartid Species
in the Journal of Morphology, vol. 115, No. 2, September 1964.

FRIENDS OF THE NATIONAL ZOO

The Friends of the National Zoo held their annual meeting on
October 7 in the Zoo cafeteria. This was followed by an inspection
tour of the birdhouse area. On the evening of February 11 many of
the Friends attended the formal opening of the remodeled birdhouse.

Friends of the National Zoo continued their publication of a quarterly
newsletter entitled Spots and Stripes. Members of the Zoo staff collab-
orate in the preparation of the material, but the newsletter is financed
and distributed by the Friends. They have also continued to work
on plans for an educational program to be aimed at various levels,
with the purpose of making the Zoo more meaningful to the schools.

INFORMATION AND EDUCATION

The major activity of the information and education section was
the continuation of signing, relabeling, and graphic-arts services and
support. During the year a total of 481 animal identification labels
were completed, and an additional 115 are in production. Also pro-
duced were 218 supporting informational signs (safety signs, building
information signs, directional maps, construction signs, etc.) and 188
other visual information projects such as maps, charts, graphs, draw-
ings, and publication layouts. Two scale models were also produced
in conjunction with the renovation plans for the Zoo.

Additional activities during the year included dissemination of
animal information by telephone and correspondence; library and
photograph file maintenance; and 23 special guided tours for groups
of handicapped children, visiting schools and colleges, visiting personnel
from other zoos, and foreign guests and dignitaries.

The zoologist participated in two television programs for the edu-
cational channel WETA. One was filmed in the studio using three
204 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965

live animals, and the other was filmed directly at the Zoo, the first
show to be taped by WETA’s mobile unit.

The zoologist also taped a 15-minute radio program on the Zoo for
the Armed Forces Radio, Military District of Washington Information
Office.

A paper was prepared for the International Zoo Yearbook, vol. 6,
(London Zoological Society) on Behaviour and Development of a Hand-
Reared Two-Toed Sloth (Choloepus didactylus), by Marion P. McCrane,
zoologist.

PERSONNEL

Donald R. Dietlein, formerly medical entomologist with the U.S.
Navy, was appointed special assistant to the director in September.
Kerry Muller, formerly senior keeper in the birdhouse at the San Diego
Zoo, became manager of the bird division here in May; and Robert
H. Artis was appointed as personnel management specialist in May.

J. Lear Grimmer, associate director of the Zoo since 1957, resigned
on April 15, 1965, to engage in private research. Michael A. Brown,
senior animal keeper, retired on December 19 after 45 years of service;
Ralph B. Norris, head animal keeper, retired on the same date after 34
years at the Zoo.

In fiscal year 1965 the Zoo had 212 authorized positions, as follows:
Office of the Director, 12 (an increase of 1 special assistant to the di-
rector by reallocation from the operations and maintenance depart-
ment); operations and maintenance department, which includes the
mechanical division, police division, grounds division, and services
division, 122 (an increase of 1 authorized laborer and a reallocation of 1
labor position to the office of the director); animal department, 76
(a reallocation of 1 position to the scientific research department);
scientific research department, 2 (an increase of 1 visual aid specialist
by reallocation of an animal keeper position).

The Smithsonian Institution named three persons as honorary col-
laborators in recognition of their contributions to the National Zoologi-
cal Park. These were Jean Delacour, world-renowned ornithologist,
for his help and advice in stocking the new birdhouse, suggesting which
species of birds should be exhibited, and giving valuable counsel in
regard to suitable plants; J. Lear Grimmer, former associate director of
the National Zoological Park, in recognition of hisscientific and manage-
ment contributions; and Mrs. Constance P. Warner, who has been
associated with the Zoo for the past 8 years, working with the collection
as an animal photographer. Mrs. Warner has generously allowed the
Zoo to use freely any of her beautiful transparencies for labels and
publications.
NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK 205

The director attended the annual meeting of the American Associa-
tion of Zoological Parks and Aquariums in Houston, Tex.; the midyear
Zoo Directors Conference in Colorado Springs, Colo.; and the Western
Regional Zoo Conference in Calgary, Alberta. The director was
present at the opening of the new aquatic birdhouse in the New York
Zoological Park on September 24 and at the formal dedication cere-
monies of the new rare mammal house in the Philadelphia Zoological
Gardens on May 1. On May 20 the director attended a conference,
held at the New York Zoo, to discuss problems resulting from large-
scale importations of primates for medical research. Lectures during
the year included groups at the Cosmos Club and the University Club
in Washington, D.C., the Metropolitan Chapter of the American
Institute of Architects, and a meeting of the Dakota Zoological Society
in Bismarck, N. Dak.

Donald R. Dietlein, special assistant to the director, made official
visits to Philadelphia, New York, St. Louis, and Chicago for the pur-
pose of studying zoo problems and maintenance.

Charles Thomas, senior keeper, left on June 11 for Liberia, escorting
a shipment of animals for President Tubman’s farm at Totota. He
is expected to return about the end of July bringing with him some
African animals.

A biweekly newsletter, Tiger Talk, was started on November 24.
This is solely for distribution to Zoo employees and serves to let each
department know what other sections are doing.

REORGANIZATION

To meet more adequately the 1890 Congressional mandate to the
Zoo for ‘‘the advancement of science and the education... of the
public” a reorganization of the Zoo’s personnel and functions was
effected during the year. There was created a department of scien-
tific research to be headed by a resident scientist (reallocated associate
director position) who will develop and direct the program within
the Zoo. Also, by reallocation from the animal department, a staff
scientist position was created and a secretary was reallocated from
the operational services program. The scientific research department
will develop into one of the Zoo’s major functions.

The engineer and draftsman positions were moved from the opera-
tions and maintenance department to a staff function of the director’s
office. The complexity of the construction program necessitated
constant technical supervision.

The information and education program was transferred from the
former scientific research division to a staff position in the office of the
206 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965

director. The staff has been increased by reallocating a position from
the operational services program and a position from the protective
services to create a docent and a visual information specialist. In
addition to the signs and labels, the responsibilities of public relations,
development of publications, and maintenance of libraries have been
assigned to information and education.

A position of divisional animal manager for each of the four divisions
in the animal department has been created. As time and staffing
permit, these positions will be filled by zoologically educated and
experienced animal managers.

It is felt that this reorganization will increase the potential for a
higher level of animal care and increased scientific investigations.

CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS

In fiscal year 1965 the Smithsonian Institution Appropriation Act
contained an item of $1,525,000 for the capital improvement program
at the National Zoological Park. A portion of this is being used for
the planning of the hospital and research complex and the service
buildings—mechanical shop, automotive garage, property supply
building, and greenhouse. The architect was selected for the planning
of buildings in Phase IV of the new Zoo construction. At the sug-
gestion of the Fine Arts Commission a landscape architect was engaged
to assist in coordinating the entire plan and to make whatever adjust-
ments in the master plan are necessary. Planning of the multiclimate
house has been delayed until its siting is approved. The construction
money was used for the hardy and delicate hoofed-stock areas and for
the sewerage system.

On July 21 work was started on the deer area, which consists of 8
paddocks, 3 single shelters, and 2 double shelters on the previously
undeveloped hill between the Connecticut Avenue entrance and the
birdhouse. The anticipated completion date is early fall 1965.

On the same date, construction was started on parking lots A and B,
located beside the new perimeter road between the elephant house and
the Connecticut Aveune gate. This work was finished on May 30.
These lots are designed for automobiles only, and accommodate 258 cars.

At the same time, construction work began on a fenced-in property
yard and access road directly west of the Holt mansion. This con-
struction eliminated the old carriage barn. It is anticipated that
completion will be in the early fall of 1965.

In October the relief interceptor sewer mentioned in last year’s
annual report was completed. Stone riprap was placed on the west
NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK 207

bank of Rock Creek, which had been straightened, and willow and
mulberry trees were planted. Ina few years the austere vista will be a
refreshing green and covered with foliage.

On December 4 final inspection of the remodeled birdhouse was made
and the building accepted from the contractor. The next 2 months
were spent in feverish activity of planting, decorating the cages, assem-
bling the birds, and developing new routines of management. On the
evening of February 11, there was an invitational black-tie opening,
sponsored by the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution. Minibuses
were hired to carry the guests from the elephant house parking lot to the
birdhouse. Fort Belvoir engineers furnished lights to illuminate the
uncompleted great flight cage, and the Marine Corps furnished a jazz
ensemble to brighten the party. The guests had a wonderful time and
seemed to derive pleasure from being served canapes in the birds’
kitchen. Two days later there was an invitational opening for the
Friends of the National Zoo and employees of the Smithsonian Institu-
tion. On February 14 the birdhouse was opened to the general public
and has been a tremendous success ever since. A paper on The Remod-
eled Bird House and New Great Flight Cage at the National Zoological Park
by Theodore H. Reed, D.V.M., will appear in volume 6 of the Inter-
national Zoo Yearbook, published by the London Zoological Society.

On April 22 the construction of the hardy and delicate hoofed-stock
areas was begun.

On May 10 work started on a new transformer station for the Zoo
at the Hawthorne Street gate back of the birdhouse, which will step
down 13.2 kv. to 4.16 kv. for distribution throughout the whole Park.
Installation of a new gas-fired boiler for the remodeled birdhouse
was also started.

In the middle of June the great flight cage was given final inspection
and accepted. Again there is a period of feverish activity in getting
the plants and other last-minute adjustments ready for a mid-July
opening. The great flight cage received a citation for excellence in
design from the American Iron and Steel Institute.

On June 21 contractors began work on parking lot F, located behind
the restaurant between Beach Drive and Rock Creek. When com-
pleted, this parking lot will accommodate 24 buses and 270 automobiles.

National Capital Parks, Department of the Interior, has lined the
tunnel under administration hill (mentioned in last year’s report)
and installed electric facilities, and is constructing the portals and a
bridge across Rock Creek at the lower end.

During the year, the designs for the Zoo’s internal sewerage system
were completed and construction will start early next fiscal year.
RDS | ake dibolodsaavarren

“irks eed {sy hive horetgieny pase’ bel adh aden ) ae
eS scone dl hal y oriole oie ES wate aL Oo piel iw! ie
we si hy CSO a lo ae piste oie ts
age ais hae slip Bulohostide er Te HobSodEar
“aul irsaiet S" px! Soe egies Buy ea bandas
Sneboedts PUN I AY ah saddens aie lrette to ih yUOE t
a Ree! rina enbare Ye! ise wou
Sg itnsge Sits Std LShi A ae sieve Sie gee
Medel entire rece freetisdyectts ites fi te viaoeae
SAF Os JOY winched) oethosd tmvideats iF Mom aeoUy ont
any Serine CP eo” Barish adease ‘ovis
hy Batahit enrol) actin a3 ‘Hing Seyi 5S Ae
oor, oukky tiie ebnow's Sul sesie od sec arly aor
‘Shch ora). gi riketinae reat | Qin’ ~omncent, Ceapenlge
Siy wl ghinege lénous Tviti B RBNE Soil “yy cd a
-pittent panmortine® oat Weehdyeicpess fina vod ised
niiciiicrdewasigvaet ct Hodiqomawicpenred Etich oad ts Bet
shormah wi one! Tiny Met dinialaa ro) eat alse stb ag neta
thanch;knigeloo Slaten te ag tga lAete anit i
emt ond ley diesottulioy aioesacpetaclli i. i Gab 2
wine? leotaolooS) soko tds ech bolle gqponed:
eonaee boosts 2) silala brs mater oitnad arene )

Nef

Pda mY

egies tom Wry ‘ attr Et a

wos tori me pan nea ene: aw esau
eta, ive okie ead budcott dosed Bey, tecma
ghia) slodien ait taodduend! gotiniingelb inohyaleet A
heastbelaina onsen Sy) dota nukiqe! beah-eag! tsa
shi '
cit ey te de enee neared whi fl eset odo meus iy ie
vtyetehiing: "cat RN! saittgercit Jay koto i lake orton ete ay
% ios Dime! 40. vbrow-eiinted ihe oa Reh ione
wcoheanehta SE wah: emai et ete eee of
Lavy) abt. waleigrel vad Rb pores quite OM
fishes yiagasincat yh solcayeciel navty’ apo ahreer int aia oak-a ite . una
apneic ike alswreD aloo.Sh cin ea celdvesth onaeavedenelaiie
Hank oungcat eae NE ines toate! + Svontigendanton wlhive
ad uncer ech pei nar

ayt

pipe catng “a

iene Pent AIL Reda baa

Astrophysical Observatory

789-427—66——_25
YIOIsy 19x © {soley © (s)

he uh

Beatie?

VAAL 48

My ata i j

ray ll os ° ce wid) eis A, . 7 rae le

Astrophysical Observatory
Frep L. WurppeLe, Director

The research achievements of the Observatory derive significantly
from its ability to obtain data from its field installations and laborato-
ries and to combine these with theoretical investigations.* ‘To illustrate
and emphasize this point, the results summarized in subsequent para-
graphs are traced back to their origins in observational data. During
the past year, the diversity of the data and the number of sources have
been increased. That diversity is typified by the variety of observa-
tions that now come from the Baker-Nunn cameras at the Observa-
tory’s field station. In recognition of this fact, their name has been
changed from Satellite Tracking Stations to Astrophysical Observing
Stations.

RESEARCH BASED ON DATA FROM
ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVING STATIONS

Gathering observational data on artificial satellites is still the major
activity of the stations. During this past year, 52,528 observations of
55 different satellites were made. Successful cooperation with the Air
Force Baker-Nunn camera stations resulted in a series of observations
linking the two networks. In addition, the Observatory has conducted
a joint project with the Royal Radar Establishment, Malvern, England,
using their 24-inch f/1 cameras to track bright passive satellites for
geodetic objectives.!

An important new development under the direction of Carlton G.
Lehr has been the experimental use of a laser beam to track satellites,
a technique that permits the measurement of the range of the orbiting
object from the observing site.

Satellite tracking data continue to yield significant advances in our
knowledge of the upper atmosphere. From an analysis of satellite drag

* Unless otherwise noted, research is supported from Federal funds appropriated
to the Smithsonian Institution. The Observatory, by paying scientists’ salaries,
shares in the support of all research. Support from outside sources is detailed in
footnotes 1-25 on this and the following pages.

1 Supported by grant NsG 87/60 from the National Aeronautics and Space
Administration.

211
212 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965

data gathered between sunspot maximum (1958) and minimum (1964),
Dr. Luigi G. Jacchia has derived new atmospheric models based on
diffusion equilibrium. With the collaboration of Dr. Max Roemer
and Jack Slowey, he has computed densities of the neutral atmosphere
starting from a fixed set of boundary conditions at 120 km. and follow-
ing empirical temperature profiles defined by exponential functions
of height. These models have been adopted by the U.S. Committee
on the Extension of the Standard Atmosphere for inclusion in the U.S.
Supplemental Atmospheres, together with the appended formulas
which give the variations of temperature with solar, geomagnetic,
and geographic parameters.

A significant new result is the discovery that a seasonal effect exists
at middle and high latitudes at all heights up to at least 600 km. An
analysis of observations of 14 satellites, including two 12-foot balloon
satellites (1963 53A and 1964 76A) launched specifically for this
research, has revealed that at any given height above 200 km., the
atmosphere has a maximum density in winter and a minimum in
summer.

Dr. Jacchia and Mr. Slowey have also investigated the relation
between exospheric temperature and geomagnetic indexes and con-
cluded that the former varies with the solar plasma velocities in a
nearly linear fashion.

Dr. Manfred Friedman has developed a set of equations to describe
the structure of the upper atmosphere. The analysis based on these
equations will include effects of thermal conductivity, radiative trans-
fer, and diffusion of the different constituents.

A new estimate has been made by Dr. Franco Verniani of the total
mass of the earth’s atmosphere. The result is (5.136-+0.007) X10”!
grams.

Data from satellite tracking have also been used in the study of the
geopotential. From precisely reduced observations of nine satellites
with inclinations between 28 and 95 degrees, Dr. Yoshihide Kozai has
derived new values for the coefficients of the zonal harmonics of the
earth’s gravitational field through J,,. Treating these zonal har-
monics as known quantities, Imre Izsak used more than 26,000 obser-
vations of 11 satellites with inclinations between 33 and 96 degrees to
compute a new set of tesseral harmonics through the sixth degree.
Since independent determinations give reasonable agreement on the
total contribution of the nonzonal terms to the geopotential, the main
features of the geoid seem to be well established.

Basing his work on the results of Dr. Kozai and Mr. Izsak, E. M.
Gaposchkin has improved the treatment of perturbations in the Ob-
ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY 213

servatory’s computer program for differential orbit improvement and
is now extending the program for determining the tesseral harmonics.

The shapes for the surfaces of the constant potential and constant
gravitation are being studied by Dr. Walter Kohnlein.

Studies of the geophysical significance of satellite gravity results
continue. From an analysis of zonal harmonics, Dr. Chi-Yuen Wang
has suggested that the load of the last continental ice sheets, which per-
sisted some 50,000 years near the end of the Pleistocene, may have de-
formed the earth, flattening it near the poles and causing a bulge near
the equator. Since the ice sheets retreated only some 11,000 to 15,000
years ago, there has been too little time for a complete isostatic recov-
ery of the earth, and the residual of this deformation therefore remains
in the earth’s ellipticity. Using different approaches, Dr. William
Strange and Dr. Wang have been investigating the possible relations
between heat-flow and the gravity results.

The Baker-Nunn camera system of the Observatory is a principal
source of data for the NASA Geodetic Program begun this year, and
studies in these fields by Observatory scientists have been and will con-
tinue to be an important part of the program.?

The rate of accumulation, reduction, and analysis of data from simul-
taneous photography of satellites by two or more Baker-Nunn cameras
was increased considerably during the year. A cooperative program
was initiated with the Air Force to use Baker-Nunn cameras at Oslo,
Norway; Cold Lake, Canada; and Johnston Island, Pacific Ocean.’
These stations were used to provide data to strengthen the solutions
for the coordinates of the SAO Baker-Nunn stations by providing a
triangular network of stations in North America and Europe and by
decreasing the distance between intervisible stations in the Pacific
Ocean. From this network of 15 stations, we now have data of inter-
condition that enhances the precision of the resultant geodetic infor-
mation. About 800 intervisible arcs were precisely reduced during the
year, compared to a total of 200 in the previous 3 years. Dr. George
Veis, assisted by Leendert Aardoom and Antanas Girnius, analyzed
these data to determine more precise station coordinates.

A companion program employed in the Observatory’s geodetic
studies determines not only the tesseral harmonic coefficients for the
geopotential but also improves station coordinates from an analysis of
data of orbit dynamics. Mr. Izsak determined a set of more accurate
station coordinates at the same time as he solved for the tesseral har-
monic coefficients.

2 Supported by contract NSR 09-015-018 with the National Aeronautics and
Space Administration.
214 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965

A procedure was developed by Dr. Kohnlein to combine the results
of the intervisible (geometric) method and those of theorbital (dynamic)
method to determine still more accurate station coordinates and the
tesseral harmonics through the fourth order. It was gratifying to
learn that the geometric and dynamic methods of determining station
coordinates were in good agreement. Until this comparison, it was
not known whether there might be a difference in the two results due
to some unrecognized factor.

The Astrophysical Observing Stations also gather data for the study
of comets. Nine of the Baker-Nunn cameras have been equipped with
a plastic defocusing device; measurements of the image density of
photographs made through these optics reveal the total brightness of
a comet. A total of 303 sequences of photometric observations of
four comets, particularly of Ikeya and Everhart, have thus far been
obtained.’

Dr. Richard B. Southworth analyzes these films for correlations
with solar phenomena and for indications of the physical behavior
of comets. As a necessary part of this work, Dr. Southworth is con-
ducting an initial study to solve the problem of transferring observed
stellar magnitudes to the Baker-Nunn color system. For the deter-
mination of the spectral sensitivity of the Baker-Nunn optics, a catalog
of published spectrophotometric data on standard stars has been
compiled, and microdensitometer measurements have been made on
films taken with the camera.

To answer the question whether streams of solar particles reaching a
comet play a significant role in its activity, Daniel Malaise, at P Uni-
versité de Liége, is investigating the apparent motion of bright streamers
in comet tails, using Baker-Nunn photographs.4 He is also studying
the pseudoperiodic variation of the apparent angle between the comet
tail and the radial direction from the sun. More than 200 photographic
sequences of tail motion are being reduced and analyzed.

For another line of investigation, the Astrophysical Observing Sta-
tions obtain photographs of flare stars, which are characterized by
sudden, nonperiodic increases in brightness. On a predetermined
schedule, the stations repeatedly photograph a known flare star that
is simultaneously being observed by one of the cooperating radio
telescopes. Presently we cooperate in this program with the 250’
Jodrell Bank telescope at Manchester, England, the 210’ telescope
at Parker, N.S.W, Australia, and the 1000’ Cornell instrument at
Arecibo, Puerto Rico. The resultant records permit a study of the

3 Supported by grant GP 2999 from the National Science Foundation.
4 Sponsored by fellowships from Fonds National de la Recherche Scientifique,
Belgium, the European Preparatory Commission for Space Research, and NASA.
ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY 215

relationship between optical and radio emissions. During this year,
approximately 270 hours of optical observations have been logged,
the data from which are analyzed by Leonard Solomon. The India
cooperating agency, the Uttar Pradesh Observatory, has joined the
program for observing flare stars and is using a photoelectric
photometer in its research.

Astrophysical Observing Stations have in past years made photo-
metric observations to determine the earth’s albedo.® In a continuing
program, Dr. Fred A. Franklin is testing improved techniques and
instrumentation to measure the earthshine on the dark portion of
the moon’s surface before first quarter and after last quarter. Sun-
light reflected from the earth faintly illuminates this part of the moon
and can therefore indicate how reflective the earth is.

METEORS

Ground-based photographic and radar instruments provide data
on the meteor process as a fragment of matter plunges into the earth’s
atmosphere from space.®

The automatic camera stations that make up the Prairie Network
are providing data on bright meteors that will enable scientists to
determine their orbits. In addition, there is the hope that some of
the bodies photographed by the network will survive their journey
and will be recovered on the earth’s surface. Such freshly fallen
meteorites can provide valuable data on the history of the objects
in space. Dr. Richard E. McCrosky continues to supervise operations
and to analyze photographs taken by the network’s cameras.

In the 11 months from May 1964 to April 1965, the period for which
complete results are available, the network photographed 34 multiple-
station meteors. Of these observations, 20 to 22 were of adequate
quality for reduction to orbits. Because meteorite falls might have
occurred, four of these were on a high priority basis. Subsequent
analysis showed that a substantial fall certainly resulted from one of
these events but not from the other three. For the one fall, Observa-
tory personnel thoroughly searched a 1-square-mile section of Marshall
County, Kans., but failed to find the object. However, the local popu-
lace has been alerted to the fall and there still remains the possibility
that a recovery may be made in a cultivated area.

Personnel of the Astrophysical Observing Stations have also been
requested to watch for meteoritic material that might be of interest to

5 Supported in part by grant Y/8.11/236 from the National Science Foundation.
6 Supported by grant NsG 291-62 from the National Aeronautics and Space
Administration.
216 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965

Observatory scientists. Robert Citron at the South Africa station has
recovered meteoritic specimens and added to our knowledge of the
Gibeon meteorite fall.

In the study of ionized meteor trails, electronic techniques play an
important role. In Havana, Ill., a radar installation jointly operated
with the Harvard College Observatory, and under the direction of Dr.
Gerald S. Hawkins and Dr. Southworth, has yielded observations of
some 10,000 meteor trails.” ‘These have been electronically measured
and reduced. Since they are of both sporadic and stream meteors,
they will provide a substantial body of data for research into the astrono-
my and physics of meteor particles? Dr. Southworth has been
planning and supervising the improvement of the system so that it will
be able to achieve greater accuracy of observations and to observe more
and fainter meteors.

Dr. Verniani and Dr. Hawkins have revised the ionization proba-
bilities involved in the meteor process, thus permitting new estimates
of the mass and density for a large sample of faint radio meteors. The
mean density from this determination is 1 gm. cm.~%, and the mass
distribution corresponds to that of the brighter photographic meteors
observed with Super-Schmidt cameras.

In cooperation with Dr. William G. Elford of the University of
Adelaide, Australia, Dr. Hawkins has found the flux of meteors more
massive than 10~® gm. to be 40 km. @ hr.7?.

Together with Dr. Hawkins and Dr. Verniani, Dr. Southworth has
computed the ablation coefficient, which represents the rate of loss of
mass by a meteor moving through the atmosphere. With Dr. Elford
and Dr. Hawkins, he has determined the distribution of the radiants of
sporadic meteors.

To gather data on high-altitude wind velocities and directions, Dr.
Mario D. Grossi has designed the necessary modifications of the Havana
equipment.*®

The extensive analysis of the atmospheric trajectories of 413 pre-
cision-reduced Super-Schmidt meteors, which Dr. Jacchia conducted
with the collaboration of Dr. Verniani and Robert E. Briggs, has been
completed and is presented in Special Report No. 175. The analysis
confirms the importance of fragmentation in the meteor phenomenon
and the individual physical characteristics of meteors in different
showers, on which Dr. Jacchia reported in past years. From the fact

7 Supported by contract NASr—158 between the National Aeronautics and Space
Administration and Harvard University.

8 Supported in part by contract NAS 9-4873 with the NASA Manned Space
Center.

® Supported by contract AF 19(628)-3248 with the U.S. Air Force.
Radar observing sites (trough-type antenna as shown) for measuring the
speed, trajectory, and flux of micrometeoroids entering the earth’s atmosphere
are maintained in several locations by the Smithsonian Astrophysical and
Harvard College Observatories. Information concerning these particles
is of vital interest to spacecraft designers preparing for the hazards of future

space flights.
Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory headquarters, Cambridge,
Massachusetts.

The Baker-Nunn camera, designed to the specifications of Smithsonian Astro-
physical Observatory scientists, is a special satellite-tracking camera first
put into operation in 1957 in time to photograph Sputnik I less than two
weeks after launch. Since then, SAO’s Baker-Nunn’s have taken more than
150,000 photographs of objects in space.
ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY 21:7

that some meteors suddenly break up completely at a point for which
pv? is a constant (p=atmospheric density, v=meteor velocity) we
infer that heat transfer rather than dynamic pressure is the trigger
mechanism in the breakup; this leads to the picture of a meteor body
so porous that air molecules can penetrate to its core. Larger meteors
do not break up so suddenly and completely, apparently because of
the shielding effect of the outer layers of the meteor body.

To complement the study of natural meteors, a radar system similar
to that in Havana has been built and put into operation south of
Wallops Island, Va., to detect the reentry of artificial meteors.’ The
first records were obtained from this installation when a nickel-iron
slug and an iron sphere were fired into the atmosphere with a velocity
of approximately 10 km. sec.~!_ This simulation is of great importance
in testing the ionization and luminosity hypotheses that have been
used in estimates of meteor masses. This work is closely correlated
with that of a network of three cameras for photographing the arti-
ficial meteors. Drs. Hawkins, Southworth, and McCrosky direct the
scientific aspects of this investigation. NASA furnishes and fires the
artificial meteors and the rockets. The Smithsonian field operations
of both systems are under the management of Cliff Marsh.

LABORATORY ASTROPHYSICS

Laboratory investigations of the Observatory involve meteoritics,
the atmosphere, comets, and exobiology.

The sources of data for the Observatory’s program in meteoritics
are collections of meteorites, meteoritic fragments, and dust particles,
and their analysis in the laboratory.

Collaborating with Chester C. Langway, Jr., of the Army Cold Re-
gions Research Laboratory, Dr. Edward L. Fireman is collecting dust
samples from melted snow deep within the Greenland ice sheet. Several
years ago unwanted heat from a power installation in Greenland was
dissipated by a radiator in the ice. The heat melted out a cavern
about 110 feet in radius that is now slowly refreezing. Dr. Fireman
and Mr. Langway have installed a pump and filters which retrieve
from the water the dust that was imbedded in the snow and ice before
they were melted. This collection technique is an improvement over
that employed in previous years when a filter was used in the camp
water supply, which was also derived from melted glacial ice. Using
previous collections, an analysis of particles collected from the melting

10 Supported by grant NsG 536 from the National Aeronautics and Space Ad-
ministration.
218 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965

of millions of liters of ice and snow shows the presence of cobalt-60 but
not of aluminum-26 or argon-39 radioactivities in the dust. On the
basis of the decay characteristics of cobalt-60, Dr. Fireman and his
collaborators tentatively ascribe this activity to iron-60 produced by
cosmic rays. James C. DeFelice has developed a high-pressure geiger
counter that is particularly useful in this work.

Dr. Fireman wrote the 3-year summary article on meteorites for
the commission on meteors and meteorites of the International Astro-
nomical Union for 1965.

Dr. David Tilles has made mass spectrometric studies of rare gases
extracted from Pacific sea sediments and from the Greenland materials
collected by Dr. Fireman and Mr. Langway." From his analysis he
has confirmed the anomalous argon isotope ratios (an Ar*/Ar® ratio
below 200 compared with the atmospheric ratio of 295) of argon re-
leased at high temperatures from a magnetic fraction of Pacific sediment
previously reported by Dr. Craig M. Merrihue. He has also found
similar argon anomalies in a separated high-density fraction of Green-
land dust, demonstrating that these anomalies are a worldwide
phenomenon.

Dr. Merrihue developed a new technique for studying meteorites.
It consists of doing mass spectroscopy on the noble gases from neutron-
irradiated samples. With this technique he obtained a number of
important results: First, the chondrules in meteorites are systematically
enriched in radiogenic xenon-129, and are depleted in primordial
xenon. ‘This is evidence for an early high-temperature origin. Second
the matrix materials in meteorites, on the other hand, show evidence of
being formed at a lower temperature in equilibrium with solar gas.
Third, the variations in the xenon-129/xenon-132 ratios as a function
of temperature prove that the radiogenic xenon-129 results from in situ
decay of iodine-129. Fourth, since both the xenon and the xenon-129
are highest in minerals with the highest diffusion constants, there
appears to be negligible xenon diffusion since the decay of iodine-129.
Fifth, the chondrules show spallation-type anomalies in krypton and
xenon that cannot be attributed to recent cosmic rays and may be
evidence for a primordial irradiation by high-energy protons. In
addition, the mass spectroscopy of noble gases from neutron-irradiated
meteorite samples provides information on the abundances of iodine,
bromine, selenium, and tellurium and is an interesting method for
potassium-argon dating. ‘This method for potassium-argon dating
offers two important advantages over conventional methods. First,
potassium and argon are simultaneously determined by a single

11 Supported in part by grant G—16067 from the National Science Foundation.
ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY 219

measurement on the same sample. Second, the absolute abundances
of neither the potassium nor the argon are required.

Dr. Merrihue also built the rare-gas extraction and sample prepara-
tion system for the Observatory’s mass spectrometer, thus aiding studies
of rare gases from dust samples." And he initiated a program for the
analysis of halogens in meteorites and separate fractions of meteorites.

With James C. D’Amico, Dr. Fireman is measuring radioactivities in
recently fallen chondritic meteorites, using a gamma-gamma coinci-
dence spectrometer. Studying sodium-22 and aluminum-26 in par-
ticular, they find evidence that there may be a slight variation in the
radioactivities of these two isotopes that is related to the orbits of bodies
in space.

A new iron-silicate mineral containing essential potassium was found
by scientists at the Air Force Cambridge Research Laboratories and
was analyzed by Mrs. Ursula B. Marvin.” ‘The X-ray determinations
showed that the mineral, which occurs in the Meso-Madaras chondrite,
has the same structure as a synthetic potassium-magnesium silicate
and is the first meteoritic mineral known to concentrate potassium. It
was named Merrihueite.

In collaboration with scientists at the General Electric Research
Laboratory in Schenectady, N.Y., Mrs. Marvin investigated meteoritic
minerals by the fission-trace method. Data indicate that uranium is
not dispersed in meteorites, as was formerly believed, but rather con-
centrated in certain minor accessory minerals, particularly whitlockite
and zircon. These can contain up to 4,000 parts per million, but
uranium is essentially absent from other minerals, including both olivine
and quartz. The data also reveal that many meteoritic minerals
contain excess fission tracks resulting from the spontaneous decay of
some element other than uranium-238. The element may be extinct
plutonium-244, which contributed to the track density early in the
history of the universe.

Dr. Whipple and Dr. Fireman have analyzed data on the cosmic-ray
exposure ages of meteorites and have found evidence for space erosion
of meteoroids. The estimated erosion rate is approximately 1078 cm.
per year for irons and 10 for stones.

Dr. Matthias F. Comerford has conducted preliminary laboratory
experiments to determine the relative erosion rates of different meteoroid
classes. His early results indicate that a simple weighting technique
will provide an adequate measure of mass loss, at least for brittle ma-
terials. His work is proceeding in cooperation with Dr. H. Mark at
NASA’s Lewis Research Center.

22 Supported in part by grant NsG 282-63 from NASA to Dr. Clifford Frondel of
Harvard University.
220 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965

Dr. Comerford has also begun making microstructural studies and
measurements of annealing kinetics in metals and alloys to help
explain recovery and recrystallization phenomena and to identify
the processes involved. Such information is fundamental to a proper
interpretation of the structures observed in iron meteorites.

Dr. Paul W. Hodge and Dr. Frances W. Wright have completed
surface analyses, by the electron-beam microanalyzer technique, of
about 270 dust particles that probably are primarily cosmic in origin.
To substantiate that probability, they are now working on similar
analyses of the interiors of 23 spherules that had previously been sub-
ject to surface analyses. To establish finally whether or not a volcanic
origin is possible for the majority of spherules recovered in arctic ice
deposits, they are continuing their investigation of volcanic spherules;
results to date make a volcanic origin extremely unlikely.

Dr. Joseph Goldstein redetermined the Fe-Ni phase diagram at
temperatures above 500°C. The new phase diagram can be extrap-
olated to 300°C. and suggests that the a/a -+ y boundary bends
back to lower Ni concentrations above 400°C. He also measured the
interdiffusion coefficients for the Fe-Ni system at 1 atm. and 40
kilobar pressures. With the newly determined phase diagram and
diffusion coefficients he calculated the concentration gradients in
meteoritic kamacite. The results show a Ni depletion in the kama-
cite near the a/y interface below 450°C. because the kamacite cannot
remain in equilibrium at low cooling temperatures and because of a
number of other features of the kamacite phase. Electron-probe
measurements on several metallic meteorites when compared to his
predicted features of the kamacite phase agree with cooling rates of
small bodies, indicating a low-pressure formation.

Basing his work on a broad range of observational data, Dr. G.
Colombo has conducted a theoretical investigation of the dynamics of
dust particles orbiting in the vicinity of the earth. He and his co-
workers, Dr. Don Lautman and Irwin Shapiro of the M.I.T. Lincoln
Laboratory, conclude that more observational data from ground,
rocket, and satellite experiments are much needed.

Under the direction of Dr. Nathaniel P. Carleton and Dr. Charles
H. Dugan, laboratory studies of electron impact excitation of metastable
levels in atoms and molecules of atmospheric interest have been per-
formed. Studies were also made of the chemical reaction of certain
of these metastable atoms and molecules. The atmospheric applica-
tion of this work concerns the partition of energy supplied to the

18 Supported by contract AF 19(628)—4203 with the U.S. Air Force.
ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY 224

atmosphere by various mechanisms, particularly photoionization and
heating by electric currents in the ionosphere.

To understand more fully the phenomena of comet nuclei, Dr.
Charles A. Whitney, Dr. Charles A. Lundquist, and Douglas T.
Pitman are continuing laboratory experiments simulating conditions
on the surface of a nucleus.

Dr. Carl Sagan’s laboratory for research in prebiological organic
chemistry and related exobiological problems is now in operation.
The basic process in the synthesis of organic compounds is the appli-
cation of energy, chiefly ultraviolet radiation, to a mixture of molecules
simulating features of the primitive environment of the earth or of
contemporary planetary environments. Techniques of autoradio-
graphic paper chromatography, thin-layer chromatography, and
electrophoresis are applicable to these investigations. Some prelimi-
nary results on nucleoside and nucleotide synthesis have been obtained.

Dr. Sagan, working with J. P. Phaneuf and M. Ihnat of the Avco
Corporation, has compared the ultraviolet, visible, and near-infrared
reflection spectra of the Martian bright areas with corresponding
laboratory reflectivities of a variety of minerals.* Except at short
visible wavelengths, where the effects of the Martian blue haze are
prominent, pulverized limonite matches the shape and amplitude
of the Martian Russell-Bond albedo within experimental and obser-
vational error.

FLIGHT OPERATIONS

Observations made from experiments high in the atmosphere or
beyond it can yield information that is impossible to obtain from ground
stations. The Observatory is broadening its efforts to obtain such data.
To support the activities of these experiments, a new department of
flight operations headed by John J. Burke has been established.

Within this department work is progressing on a variety of flight
instruments. Under the supervision of Dr. Giovanni G. Fazio and
Dr. Henry F. Helmken, a spark-chamber detector to search for primary
gamma rays has been built and is being tested.1® A balloon flight is
scheduled for next year. Dr. Fazio and Dr. Comerford are investigating
detectors to measure polarization of celestial X-ray sources.

The purpose of Project Celescope is to construct an accurate photo-
metric map of the sky in each of four ultraviolet wavelength bands.'®

144 Research sponsored by a fellowship from the Alfred P. Sloane Foundation.

15 Supported by contracts NAS5—3255 and NAS5-9769 with NASA Goddard
Space Flight Center.

16 Supported by contract NAS5-1535 with NASA Goddard Space Flight Center.
222 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965

This program, under the scientific direction of Dr. Robert J. Davis,
requires the use of sophisticated television techniques and the establish-
ment of an accurate absolute standard of spectrophotometric sensitivity
as a function of wavelength between 1000 and 3000 angstroms. The
Celescope experiment has been rescheduled for installation aboard
the third Orbiting Astronomical Observatory satellite, to be launched
in 1967. Preliminary experiments may also be conducted from balloons
and rockets.

Under Harvard auspices, Dr. Leo Goldberg and his group have
designed and partially constructed a spectrometer-spectroheliometer
which will be flown on the Orbiting Solar Observatory D satellite.”
This instrument is an improved version of the earlier OSO-BII experi-
ment, which failed early in 1965 during its first orbits. Its purpose is to
investigate the structure of the sun’s outer atmosphere and to study the
physical processes occurring in solar flares.

STELLAR AND PLANETARY OBSERVATIONS

Using several observational facilities, including the Kitt Peak National
Observatory, Dr. Goldberg has been dealing with astrophysical im-
plications of autoionization in atomic spectra. A considerable number
of previously unobserved and unidentified features have been found in
the solar spectrum. The profiles of the Ca I triplet near ) 6350, recently
identified by Mitchell and Mohler, have also been traced at various
points along the solar radius and are being studied with the aid of
absolute f-values measured by Mr. Gerald Newson in the Shock Tube
Laboratory.!8

A project has been established under the general direction of Dr.
Stephen Strom and the specific direction of David W. Latham to de-
velop instrumentation for obtaining highly accurate stellar continuous
spectra. A prototype photomultiplier cooling package with careful
temperature control has been designed by Thomas E. Hoffman and
is being constructed. A data reduction scheme has been formulated
by Mr. Latham, a semiautomatic data acquisition system has been
perfected, and a monochromator is being built.

The Observatory has supported the design and preliminary construc-
tion of an infrared camera for Dr. Sagan’s group. The camera is
intended to obtain photographs of the moon and planets at several
narrow-band wavelength intervals in the photographic infrared. The
system is planned to be flexible for adaptation to a variety of large

17 Supported by contract NASw-184 between NASA and Harvard University.
18 Supported by grant NsG 438 from NASA to Harvard University.
ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY 223

telescopes and will accommodate six interference filters on a filter
wheel.

Dr. Fazio and Dr. Helmken have used the large (28-ft. square)
parabolic mirror system at the U.S. Army Natick Laboratories to detect
air cerenkov light from cosmic-ray particles striking the atmosphere
and producing charged particle showers. Significant improvements in
detection ability were achieved during the year.

One major result of observational work has been the preparation of
an atlas of the Large Magellanic Cloud by Dr. Hodge and Dr. Wright.
The atlas includes a historical account of research on the Cloud,
together with a summary of current knowledge; a complete bibliog-
raphy of papers on this subject from 1925 through 1964; and 167
photographic charts on which have been identified known variable
stars, star clusters, and emission nebulae. When the work is pub-
lished, it should serve as a “clearing house” for information on these
phenomena.

Dr. Whitney and his group working in theoretical astrophysics
have developed two observational programs:

1. Use of existing equipment and other optical observatories
under guest investigator programs. Dr. Strom, Mr. Latham, and
Dr. Whitney obtained spectrographic data at the McDonald Observa-
tory, the Kitt Peak National Observatory, and the Mt. Wilson Ob-
servatory. Dr. Strom and Mr. Latham have developed extensive
computer programs to handle the reduction of these data.

2. Development of auxiliary equipment for the measurement of
stellar spectra. As the first step in this program, Mr. Latham and Mr.
Hoffman are constructing the photoelectric spectrometer mentioned
earlier. Under this program they envisage the continuing develop-
ment of various optical detectors to elucidate empirical questions
raised by the theoretical program and to explore new avenues of
observation.

Dr. Sagan, Steven Kilston of Harvard College, and R. R. Drummond
of the Goddard Space Flight Center undertook a search for life on
Earth at km. resolution using photographs obtained by the Tiros and
Nimbus meteorological satellites. Of several thousand photographs
of essentially cloudless terrains taken by Nimbus I, two objects were
found that were indicative of intelligent life on Earth: a jet contrail
and a recently constructed interstate highway. One rectilinear
feature was found on the Moroccan coast; it was not, however, due
to the works of man. No signs of seasonal variation of vegetation
could be found, although one rectilinear array due to the activities

19 Supported by grants GP-940 and GP—4318 from the National Science Founda-
tion.
224 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965

of Canadian loggers was discovered on a Tiros II photograph. It
appears that several thousand photographs of the Earth, each with a
resolution of a few tenths of a km., are required before any sign of
intelligent life can be found with some reasonable reliability. An
equivalent Mariner IV system—taking 22 photographs of the Earth
with a resolution of several km.—would not detect any sign of life on
Earth, intelligent or otherwise.

THEORETICAL ASTROPHYSICS

In a paper presented before the Thirteenth International Astro-
physical Symposium organized by l'Institut d’Astrophysique of the
University of Liége in Belgium, the director and Diarmaid H. Douglas-
Hamilton of the Harvard College Observatory corrected visual bright-
ness estimates of Comets Encke and Faye for telescope aperture and
reduced them to absolute magnitude. A secular decrease in absolute
brightness is indicated for both. On the assumption of a linear de-
crease with time in the diameter of an icy nucleus, they calculated
death dates of 1991 to 2000 for Comet Encke, and 1978 to 1985 for
Comet Faye.

They find no correlation between the brightness variations of the
two comets and solar activity. On the other hand, for Comet Encke
they find that the observed occurrence of a tail is strongly correlated
with increased solar activity and with the observed presence of a
distinct sharp nucleus. They suggest that variations in the solar
wind may produce these effects.

The director presented before the Symposium on Unmanned Ex-
ploration of the Solar System, held by the American Astronomical
Society in Denver, Colo., a description of cometry phenomena and of
the probable basic nature of comets, and offered proposals for further
investigations by improved classical astronomical methods, by labora-
tory studies, by observations from balloons, by artificial comet ex-
periments in space, by observations from space platforms, and by
space probes passing near comets. ‘These techniques should add signifi-
cantly to our knowledge of the cometry nucleus and of possible cometary
hazards to spacecraft, as well as to the possibility of using comets as
fuel sources for interplanetary operation and exploration.

From time to time a comet nucleus is observed to break into several
pieces. Sometimes two or more comets are thus formed which sub-
sequently follow nearly identical orbits. At other times the original
comet simply vanishes, leaving only the suspicion that its nucleus
fragmented. Dr. Whipple and Robert P. Stefanik have been conduct-
ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY 225

ing a study of 12 such split comets. The fact that these appear to be
‘‘new” rather than periodic comets leads to the suggestion that early
in its life each of these fragmented comets was a large dirty snowball
containing a source of heat in radioactive atoms. Planetary encounters
eject the comet far out of the solar system and into interstellar space
where sublimation of the more volatile materials depletes the core
over a long time interval. Diffusing outward through the nucleus,
the gases recrystallize in the extreme cold near the comet’s surface to
form an external shell that is brittle and a structurally weakened core.
During its long stay in interstellar space, the comet is affected by
virtually no external physical forces. Thus on its first close approach
to the sun, exposure to strong external radiation may result in the
formation of heat shock that causes the comet to split.

Before the Third International Symposium on Bioastronautics
and the Exploration of Space, held at San Antonio, Tex., the director
revised historically the predictions of meteoroid penetration of space
vehicles near the Earth’s orbit and then compared the predictions with
observational data from satellites. He concluded that the hazard is
far less than it was thought to be several years ago.

Prof. Prabhu L. Bhatnagar of the Indian Institute of Science was a
distinguished visiting scientist at the Observatory during the summer
and fall of 1964. He directed his attention to the problem of deriving
a precise theory of the radiation transfer problem in the lunar surface,
in which the lunar surface density is constant, varies linearly with
depth, and varies exponentially with depth. The methods are being
programed for utilization of infrared and radio observations, both
throughout a lunation and during eclipses. The director cooperated
in this research.

Research in cosmology and general relativity proceeded along several
paths. Dr. James P. Wright and Dr. Sachiko Tsuruta evaluated the
pulsation periods of relativistic objects, paying particular attention to
neutron stars where the whole star may pulsate in 0.001 second. The
stability of superdense stars was studied using conventional trial
functions corresponding to homologous oscillation, and further work
indicates the need to use more elaborate trial functions. Dr. Wright
also investigated the role of rotation in a particular relativistic model
of the universe.

Dr. Tsuruta evaluated the neutrino energy loss from stars through the
so-called URCA (uniform rapid contraction) process for ordinary and
dense matter in the temperature range T = 10° °K to T= 5 X 10°
°K and of the density range p = 105 grams-cm.® to 3 X 10" grams-
cm.*. This energy loss rate is highly sensitive to temperature, and
above a temperature of 2 to 3 X 10° °K the nuclear URCA process

789-427—66——_26
226 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965

exceeds the energy loss by the plasma-neutrino process; therefore the
URCA process must be taken into account in detailed calculations of
stellar evolution at high densities and temperatures. Dr. Tsuruta
finds that inclusion of this new process does not significantly alter her
earlier conclusions concerning the rate of cooling of neutron stars.
She has found that stars of medium and heavy mass retain temperatures
exceeding 2 X 10° °K for times of the order of 10* to 105 years, so such
stars should be considered as candidates for some of the observed
X-ray sources.

Dr. Henri E. Mitler has made considerable progress in his study of
neutron activation of nuclei in meteoroids from solar and galactic
cosmic rays. He has found a relatively simple analytical method for
obtaining the total number of neutrons, protons, and heavier particles
evaporated from excited nuclei and has obtained an improved neutron
production spectrum. He has also solved the problem of spallation
production of nuclei in spherical meteoroids by cosmic rays and will
apply this as a test of the space erosion theory by Dr. Whipple and Dr.
Fireman.

Dr. William M. Irvine completed a study of local irregularities in
cosmological models according to general relativity. Conditions were
derived for the validity of Newtonian gravitational theory on a local
scale in such a universe, and it was shown that such models satisfy
Mach’s principle. The energy of the irregularities in such a universe
is not conserved, a fact of significance to cosmogony.

Research in stellar atmospheres, under the general supervision of
Dr. Whitney, now comprises perhaps the strongest theoretical program
of its kind in the world.’ To supplement this theoretical work, the
observational program previously mentioned was initiated this year.
An event of particular note was the second Harvard-Smithsonian con-
ference on stellar atmospheres, held at the Observatories in January.”
This meeting was organized by Dr. Whitney, Dr. Eugene H. Avrett,
and Dr. Owen J. Gingerich; the proceedings, published as Special
Report No. 174, contained over 450 pages summarizing 3 days’ dis-
cussion of problems of the formation of spectrum lines. This conference
series has clearly been adopted as an ‘“‘Institution”’ by the astronomical
community.

The theoretical work of the Observatory’s group was aimed primarily
at uncovering the effects of departures from local thermodynamic equi-
librium on the formation of spectrum lines and the continuous spectra

20 Supported in part by grant NONR(G)0031-65 from the Office of Naval
Research.
ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY 22h

of stars. Also, accurate and powerful techniques for spectrum analysis
have been brought to bear on problems of stellar composition.

Dr. Avrett has made considerable progress in the calculation of strong
absorption at emission lines formed in the outermost layers of stellar
atmospheres and has completed an investigation of ‘‘source function
equality’? in multiplet lines. This study is part of a larger project
involving radiative transfer calculations of spectra from complex atoms
with applications to solar chromospheric lines. In collaboration with
Dr. Robert W. Noyes, he is making a detailed analysis of the solar H
and K lines of ionized calcium and of magnesium.

The group devoted a major effort toward examining the validity of
model atmosphere techniques and extending these theories and tech-
niques to a practical analysis of the spectra of “‘real”’ stars. Dr. Wolf-
gang Kalkofen continued his investigations of the influence of departures
from local thermodynamic equilibrium on the structure of model
atmospheres.” This theoretical work, done in collaboration with Dr.
Avrett, promises to have an important bearing on the quantitative
analysis of stellar spectra, as evidenced by recent work of Dr. Strom and
Dr. Gingerich.

Dr. Strom and Dr. Gingerich have nearly completed an analysis of
the spectra of Sirius and Vega, two bright stars whose surface tempera-
tures are about 10,000°K. This will be the most thorough study ever
performed for any star other than the sun. Two principal results have
emerged from this study. In the first place, it is quite clear that Sirius
has a metal content similar to that of metallic-line A stars and much
higher than that of Vega. Second, there were significant discrepancies
in the results in the analyses which were removed when the departures
from local thermodynamic equilibrium for the second and third levels
of neutral hydrogen were explicitly included. The magnitude of this
effect will be appreciated when it is noted that the new models alter
the estimates of surface temperature for these stars by about 1,000°K,
and may indicate that there will be a significant revision of the stellar
temperature scale.

Dr. Whitney’s theoretical work was aimed at providing insight into
dynamical properties of stellar atmospheres and the general problem
of gas dynamic flow in the presence of radiative transfer.

Dr. Noyes continued his theoretical and observational studies of the
solar atmosphere. He and Dr. Whitney organized an informal
symposium on “motions in the solar atmosphere” to which a small
number of specialists throughout the country were invited.

+1 Supported in part by contract AF 19(628)—3877 between the U.S. Air Force
and Harvard University.
228 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965

Dr. George B. Rybicki derived radiative transfer equations for a
medium with small stochastically defined opacity and energy fluctua-
tions. The theory is shown to provide a description of the solar
atmosphere which has statistically defined inhomogeneities due to an
underlying convection zone. An unexpected result is that long-range
correlations in the emergent intensity may appear that are not directly
related to the correlation scales in the energy fluctuations. Rather,
they are related to the depth of the zone in which the energy fluctua-
tions occur, even if this is large in comparison with a radiation mean-
free path.

Dr. Irvine pursued his fundamental studies of scattering phenomena
in planetary atmospheres. He developed a new approach to the
study of the formation of absorption bands in a scattering atmosphere
through equations for the probability distribution of photon-optical
paths. Also, radiative transfer in layers of large particles (dust or
clouds) was invesitgated with an explicit evaluation of the influence
of the large forward lobe in the scattering pattern. Dr. Irvine com-
puted the cross sections for extinction, scattering, and radiation pressure
for both dielectric and absorbing particles and included the contribu-
tion of surface waves to the scattering. As an aid to the study of
planetary cloud and dust layers, he evaluated the albedo and asym-
metry factor of water droplets and sand spheres.”

Analyzing recent passive and active radio observations of Mars, Dr.
Sagan and Dr. James B. Pollack have found a significant correlation of
radar reflectivity enhancements with the Martian dark areas Cerberus-
Trivium Charontis, Nepenthes, and Syrtis Major.

They have also continued their study of the physical environment of
the planet Venus. They have estimated surface thermometric tem-
peratures to be as follows: mean disk, 700°K; subsolar point, 1000°K;
antisolar point, 610°K; pole, 470°K. They have shown that the
Venus limb-darkening detected by Mariner II can be explained
consistently either by an absorbing cloud or by scatterers nonuni-
formly distributed through the atmosphere. Reconsidering the Venus
greenhouse effect, they find that cloudless atmospheres, either in
convective or in radiative equilibrium, require, to explain the high
surface temperatures, integrated infrared optical depths much larger
than is realistically expected from the constituents of the Venus atmos-
phere. If the Venus clouds are made of water, many of the cloud
parameters can be derived from the observations; such clouds play
a major role in maintaining the high surface temperatures of Venus.

22 Supported in part by grant NsG 89/60 from NASA to Harvard University.
ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY 229
HISTORICAL ASTRONOMY

Dr. Hawkins has developed a computer program in astroarcheology
that determines the position on the celestial sphere that is marked by a
chosen line on the ground. The stones, stone holes, and archways at
Stonehenge in England revealed a surprising fit with the extreme
positions of sunrise, sunset, moonrise, and moonset. Also, the circle of
56 holes is exactly the number required to predict the swing of the
moon and the occurrence of eclipse seasons. ‘This observatory-com-
puter is a remarkable achievement for circa 2000 B.C. Similar align-
ments and computer possibilities were found from the stone rows and
rings at Callanish, on the Isle of Lewis, Scotland. The program has
been made available to other scientists, and already investigations
using it have been made in IIlinois, in Mexico, and elsewhere.

Dr. Gingerich has undertaken an extensive study of Kepler’s
Astronomia Nova that should ultimately result in the first English
translation of and commentary on this classic treatise. This work is an
outgrowth of a previous computer study that indicated Kepler’s
work on the orbit of Mars was greatly impeded by his frequent nu-
merical errors. Dr. Gingerich has also been examining, with the aid
of a computer, Kepler’s Rudolphine Tables of 1627 to determine the
internal consistency of the calculations and their accuracy for pre-
dicting planetary positions.”*

INTERNATIONAL BUREAUS

Recognizing the Observatory’s active and productive program in
geodesy, the International Union of Geodesy and Geophysics invited
the Observatory to establish a Central Bureau of Satellite Geodesy.
The Bureau is now in operation, with Dr. Whipple as director and
Jan Rolff as executive director.?4

On January 1, the Central Bureau for Astronomical Telegrams was
transferred to the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory from the
Copenhagen Observatory, where it had operated since 1922. The
Bureau’s responsibilities include the rapid dissemination of astronomical
information both by telegraph and by printed circulars, as well as the
nomenclature of comets. Under the direction of Dr. Gingerich, the
Bureau had issued 30 circulars by the end of the year.”°

%3 Supported in part by Harvard University.
4 Supported in part by the International Association of Geodesy.
25 Supported in part by the International Astronomical Union.
230 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965

STAFF CHANGES

The Observatory staff was increased during the year by physicists
Dr. Wolfgang Kalkofen, Dr. Anthony Lee, Dr. James Pollack, Dr.
George Rybicki, Dr. Sachiko Tsuruta, Dr. Franco Verniani, and Dr.
James Wright; astrophysicist Dr. Max Roemer; geodesist Dr. William
Strange; and mathematician Dr. Manfred Friedman. John Burke
joined the staff as flight operations manager, William Hirst as chief
of Moonwatch, Thomas Hoffman as staff engineer, John Hsia as chief
of station operations, and Raymond Watts, Jr., as chief of editorial
and publications.

The computations, data, and photoreduction divisions became the
data processing department under Dr. Richard Haefner. Edward
Gaposchkin and Leonard Solomon joined research and analysis, and
Jerome Cherniack became chief of computations and Robert Martin
chief of data. E. Nelson Hayes became editor-in-chief. Jan Rolff
was appointed executive director of the Central Bureau for Satellite
Geodesy.

Consultants to the Observatory during the year were Dr. G.
de Vaucouleurs, Dr. William Kaula, Dr. Colin Keay, Daniel
Malaise, Dr. Shambhu Sinvhal, Dr. George Veis, Dr. John Wood,
and Costas Papaliolios.

Metallurgist Dr. Joseph Goldstein transferred to Goddard Space
Flight Center. Physicist Jack Tech transferred from and returned
to the National Bureau of Standards during the year. Moonwatch
chief Richard Vanderburgh and physicists Dr. Morton Davies and
Dr. William Elford resigned.

As of June 30, 1965, the Observatory employed 468 persons.

Death took two young Observatory scientists in 1965.

Dr. Craic M. MeErRRIHUE, physicist, and associate of Harvard
University, died in a mountain-climbing accident March 14, 1965.
Born in Schenectady, N.Y., July 8, 1933, he was awarded the B.A.
degree from Harvard University in 1956 and the Ph.D. from the
University of California at Berkeley in 1964. He lived in Cambridge
with his wife Sandra and their son Jeffrey. In his short career, he
demonstrated an unusual combination of theoretical skills and ex-
perimental aptitude and made important contributions to science,
particularly in the analysis of radioisotopes in meterorites. He was a
quiet, modest, unassuming man with intense enthusiasm for life.
He was deeply involved in the public problems of his time, taking an
active interest in conservation, civil liberties, and political issues. He
was concerned alike for the individual and for society. A skillful
mountain climber, he had led an expedition to the Andes, had climbed
ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY 231

in British Columbia and in the Karakoram in Pakistan, and was
planning an expedition to the Hindu Kush in Afghanistan. While he
and Daniel Doody, a member of the American Everest Expedition,
were climbing on the side of Mt. Washington, they both fell and were
killed. Because of his theoretical interests and practical skills as a
scientist, and because of his experience as a mountain climber, Dr.
Merrihue was a conspicuous candidate for the position of scientist on
America’s first manned expedition to the Moon.

On April 21, 1965, Imre Izsax, chief of satellite research and analysis,
and lecturer at Harvard University, died of a heart attack at the age
of 36. He was in Paris attending a COSPAR symposium on tra-
jectories of artificial celestial bodies as determined from observations.
In the brief years of his scientific career, he had established himself
as a preeminent authority on geodesy and had made significant con-
tributions to the study of celestial mechanics. His death is both a
deep personal tragedy and an irreparable loss to the scientific com-
munity. Born in the small town of Zalaegerszeg, some 200 miles
from Budapest, Izsak attended the University of Budapest, where he
worked in astronomy under the late Karoly Lassovszky (who also
later joined the Smithsonian) and specialized in the study of variable
stars and galactic clusters. Fleeing Hungary during the 1956 revolt,
he began studies of solar physics at the Zurich Observatory in Novem-
ber of that year. Two years later he emigrated to the United States
and, after a brief priod at the Observatory of the University of Cincin-
nati, joined the staff of the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory.
On February 24, 1964, he became a citizen of the United States.
He lived in Cambridge with his wife Emily and an infant son Andrew.
Izsak was a warm, charming, witty, gentle person. He gained not
only the deep respect but also the spontaneous affection of his col-
leagues. His association with them was one of mutual inspiration.

PUBLICATIONS

The following papers by staff members of the Astrophysical Observa-
tory were published or presented as indicated:

AarpooM, L.; Girnius, A.; and Vris,G. Determination of the absolute
space directions between Baker-Nunn camera stations. Presented
at the Second International Symposium on the Use of Artificial
Satellites for Geodesy, Athens, April 1965.

Averett, E. H., and Srrom, S. E. Comparison between model atmos-
pheres and spectra from early-type stars. Ann. d’Astrophys., vol.
Zipp. 161—195, 1964.

See also Kalkofen and Avrett; Strom and Avrett.

232 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965

CarR.ETON, N. P. Excitation and change of charge in ion molecule
collisions in the adiabatic region. In M. R. C. McDowell, ed., Atomic
Collision Processes, J. Wiley & Sons, Inc., New York, pp. 652-660,
1964.

Car.eTOoN, N. P.; OLDENBERG, O.; and SHERIDAN, W. F. Secondary
effects in electron excitation of some nitrogen bands. In M. R. C.
McDowell, ed., Atomic Collision Processes, J. Wiley & Sons, Inc.,
New York, pp. 440-442, 1964.

Car.eTOoN, N. P., and Roacu, J. R. Spectroscopic observation of a
midlatitude red auroral arc. Journ. Geophys. Res., vol. 70, pp.
1262-1265, 1965.

Cotomso, G., and Fiocco, G. Reply to “Note on Kazer detection of
atmospheric dust layers’? by D. Deirmendjian. Journ. Geophys.
Res., vol. 70, p. 746, 1965.

Cotomgo, G.; LauTMAN, D. A.; and SHapiro, I. I. Dynamics of small
particles in the solar system. Presented at the annual meeting of
Trans. Amer. Geophys. Union, Washington, April 21, 1965.

DeFeE.ice, J. See Fireman and DeFelice; Fireman, DeFelice, and
Langway.

Dotan, J. F., and Fazio, G. G. Gamma-ray spectrum of the sun.
Rev. Geophys., vol. 3, pp. 319-343, 1965.

E.Forp, W. G., and Hawkins, G. S. Meteor echo rates and the flux
of sporadic meteors. Harvard Radio Meteor Project Research
Report No. 9, November 1964.

E.rorp, W. G.; Hawkins, G. 8.; and SourHwortu, R. B. The dis-
tribution of sporadic meteor radiants. Harvard Radio Meteor Proj-
ect Research Report No. 11, December 1964.

Fazio, G.G. A vidicon spark chamber system for use in artificial earth
satellites. Proc. Symp. on Filmless Spark Chamber Techniques and
Associated Computer Uses. CERN, Geneva, pp. 95-103, 1964.

See also Dolan and Fazio; Pollack and Fazio.

Fireman, E. L., and DEFEttcE, J. Multiple fall of Pribram meteorites
photographed 7. The tritium and argon-39 in the Pribram meteorite
(abstract). Bull. Astron. Insts. Czech., vol. 15, p. 113, 1964.

Fireman, E. L.; DEFEvicE, J.; and LAncway, C. C., jr. Greenland
dust: radioactivity studies (abstract). Trans. Amer. Geophys. Union,
vol. 46, p. 117, 1964.

Fireman, E. L., and Lancway, C. C., jr. Search for aluminum-26
in dust from the Greenland Ice Sheet. Geochim. et. Cosmochim.
Acta, vol. 29, pp. 21-27, 1965.

See also Schaeffer, Stoenner, and Fireman.

FLEISCHER, R. L.; NAEsER, C. W.; Price, P. B.; WALKER, R. M.; and
Marvin, U. B. Fossil particle tracks and uranium distributions in

ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY 233

minerals of the Vaca Muerta meteorite. Science, vol. 148, pp.
629-632, 1965.

FRANKLIN, F. A. See Wright, Hodge, and Franklin.

FrieEpMAN, M. P. A description of a computer program for the study
of atmospheric effects on sonic booms. NASA CR-157, February
1965.

GincERIcH, O. Laboratory exercises in astronomy—spectral classifi-
cation. Sky and Tel., vol. 28, pp. 80-82, 1964.

Laboratory exercises in astronomy—the rotation of Saturn

and its rings. Sky and Tel., vol. 28, pp. 278-279, 1964.

Translation of Introduction to Astrophysics: the Stars,

by J. Dufay. Dover Press, New York, 1964.

2 e7 *49,8¢

GincericH, O.; Minaras, D.; Matsusumma, S.; and Strom, S. An
archetype non-gray stellar atmosphere. Astrophys. Journ., vol.
141, pp. 316-319, 1965.

See also Strom, Gingerich, and Strom.

Girnius, A. See Aardoom, Girnius, and Veis.

Go.pBERG, L. The origin of the emission reversals in the Fraunhofer
H- and K-lines. Astrophys. Journ., vol. 140, pp. 384-386, 1964.

GoLpBERG, L., and Noyes, R. W. Origin of emission cores in lines of
ionized Ca and Mg (abstract). Astron. Journ., vol. 69, p. 542, 1964.

GoLpBERG, L.; PArkinson, W. N.; and Reeves, E. M. Carbon mon-
oxide in the ultraviolet solar spectrum. Astrophys. Journ., vol.
141, pp. 1293-1295, 1965.

Go psTEw, J. I.; HANNEMAN, R. E.; and Ocitiviz, R E. Diffusion in
the Fe-Ni system at 1 atm. and 40 kbar pressure. Trans, AIME, vol.
233, pp. 812-820, 1965.

Haerner, R. R. The simultaneous observation program of the
Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory. Presented at the Second
International Symposium on the Use of Artificial Satellites for
Geodesy, Athens, April 1965.

Precise reduction of Baker-Nunn films at the Smithsonian
Astrophysical Observatory. Presented at the Second International
Symposium on the Use of Artificial Satellites for Geodesy, Athens,
April 1965.

Hawkins, G. S. Interplanetary debris near the earth. Ann. Rev.
Astron. Astrophys., vol. 2, pp. 149-164, 1964.

Letter to the Editor. Physics Today, vol. 17, p. 56, 1964.

———. Secret of Stonehenge. Harpers, pp. 96-99, June 1964.

———. Meteors, comets, and meteorites. McGraw-Hill, Inc., New
York, 1964.
234 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965

Hawkins, G. S. The sun and its planets. Holt, Rinehart, Winston,
New York, 1964.

Hawkins, G. S., and Frieszn, D. A note on the grid of the ortho-
graphic atlas of the moon. Planet. Space Sci., vol. 12, pp. 318-319,
1964.

Hawkins, G. S.; LinpBLAp, B.-A.; and SourHwortu, R. B. The
velocity of faint meteors. Smithsonian Contr. Astrophys., vol. 8,
pp. 133-139, 1964.

Hawkins, G. 8.; SouTHwoRTH, R. B.; and RosENTHAL, S. Prelimin-
ary analysis of meteor radiants and orbits. Harvard Radio Meteor
Project Research Report No. 7, August 1964.

Hawkins, G. S.; SourHworTH, R. B.; and VERNIANI, F. On the
ablation-coefficient of meteors. Harvard Radio Meteor Project
Research Report No. 10, December 1964.

Hawkins, G. S., and VERNIANI, F. On the ionizing efficiency of
meteors. Harvard Radio Meteor Project Research Report No. 5,
1964; also in Astrophys. Journ., vol. 140, pp. 1590-1600, 1964.

See also Elford and Hawkins; Elford, Hawkins, and South-
worth; Verniani and Hawkins.

Hetmken, H.F. See Kraushaar, Clark, Gamire, Helmken, Higbie, and
Agogino.

Hopce, P. W. The Henbury meteorite craters. Smithsonian Contr.
Astrophys., vol. 8, no. 8, pp. 199-213, 1965.

Hopce, P. W.; Wricut, F. W.; and Lancway, C. C., Jr. Studies of
particles for extraterrestrial origin. 3. Analyses of dust particles
from polar ice deposits. Journ. Geophys. Res., vol. 69, pp. 2919-
2931, 1964.

See also Wright, Hodge, and Franklin.

IrnvinE, W. M. Local irregularities in an expanding universe. Ann.
Phys., vol. 32, pp. 322-347, 1965.

Light scattering by spherical particles: radiation pressure,
asymmetry factor, and extinction cross section. Journ. Opt. Soc.
Amer, Vol. 55, pp. 16-21, 1965.

IrvinE, W. M.; Pikoos, C.; CHARON, J.; and Lecrome, G. Effect of
high voltage on spectral sensitivity for two photomultipliers. Astro-
phys. Journ., vol. 140, pp. 1629-1631, 1964.

Izsax, I. G. A new determination of non-zonal harmonics by satel-
lites. Presented posthumously at the Second International Sym-
posium on the Use of Artificial Satellites for Geodesy, Athens,
April 1965.

Izsax, I. G.; GeRarp, J.; and BARNetr, M. P. Mechanization of
tedious algebra. Communications of the ACM, vol. 8, pp. 27-32,
1965.

ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY 235

JAccuta, L. G. The temperature above the thermopause. Jn P.
Muller, ed., Space Research V, North-Holland Publ., Amsterdam,
pp. 1152-1174, 1965.

Jaccuia, L. G., and SLowey, J. Temperature variations in the
upper atmosphere during geomagnetically quiet intervals. Journ.
Geophys. Res., vol. 69, pp. 4145-4148, 1964.

KALKOFEN, W., and AvretT, E. H. Departures from L.T.E. in a
model atmosphere (abstract). Astron. Journ., vol. 69, p. 546, 1964.

KOHNLEIN, W. Determination of station coordinates from optical
observations of artificial satellites. Presented at the Second Inter-
national Symposium on the Use of Artificial Satellites for Geodesy,
Athens, April 1965.

Koza, Y. New determination of zonal harmonics coefficients of the
earth’s gravitational potential. Publ. Astron. Soc. Japan, vol. 16,
pp. 263-284, 1964.

New values for the zonal harmonics. Presented at the

Second International Symposium on the Use of Artificial Satellites

for Geodesy, Athens, April 1965.

Summary of numerical results derived from satellite obser-

vations. Presented at the Second International Symposium on the

Use of Artificial Satellites for Geodesy, Athens, April 1965.

Long range analysis of satellite observations. Presented at
the Second International Symposium on the Use of Artificial Satel-
lites for Geodesy, Athens, April 1965.

KRAUSHAAR, W.; CLARK, G.; GAMIRE, G.; HELMKEN, H. F.; Hicsr,
P.; and Acocino, M. Explorer XI experiment on cosmic gamma
rays. Astrophys. Journ., vol. 141, pp. 845-863, 1965.

Lancway, C. C., Jr., and Marvin, U. B. Some characteristics of
black spherules. Ann. N.Y. Acad. Sci., vol. 119, pp. 205-223, 1964.

Lancway, C. C., jr. See also Fireman and Langway; Fireman,
DeFelice, and Langway.

LautMan, D. A. See Colombo, Lautman, and Shapiro.

Lunpguist, C. A. Orbital mechanics. Part IV of E. Stuhlinger and
G. Mesmer, eds., Space Science and Engineering. McGraw-Hill
Book Co., New York, 1965.

Marvin, U. B., and KLein, C., jr. Meteoritic zircon. Science, vol.
146, pp. 919-920, 1964.

See also Fleischer, Naeser, Price, Walker, and Marvin;
Langway and Marvin.

MERRIHUE, C. M. Rare gas evidence for cosmic dust in modern
Pacific red clay. Ann. N.Y. Acad. Sci., vol. 119, pp. 351-367, 1964.

McCrosky, R. E., and BoEscHENSTEIN, H. yr. The Prairie Meteorite

236 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965

Network. Journ. Soc. Photo-Opt. Instr. Engrs., vol. 3, pp. 127-
132, 1965.

Mirter, H. E. Origin of light elements. Phys. Rev., vol. 136, pp.
298-320, 1964.

Noyes, R. W. See Goldberg and Noyes.

Po.uack, J. B., and Fazio, G. G. Nuclear interactions of cosmic rays
as the source of the synchrotron radiating particles of our galaxy.
Astrophys. Journ., vol. 141, pp. 730-744, 1965.

Po.tiack, J. B., and Sacan, C. Polarization of thermal emission from
Venus. Astrophys. Journ., vol. 141, pp. 1161-1183, 1965.

The microwave phase effect of Venus. Icarus, vol. 4, pp.

62-103, 1965.

See also Sagan and Pollack.

RosENTHAL, S. See Hawkins, Southworth, and Rosenthal.

Rysicki, G. Transfer of radiation in stochastic media. Dissertation,
Harvard University, 1965.

Sacan, C. The atmosphere of Venus. InP. J. Brancazio and A. G. W.
Cameron, eds., The Origin and Evolution of Atmospheres and
Oceans, J. Wiley & Sons, Inc., New York, pp. 279-288, 1964.

Primordial ultraviolet synthesis of nucleoside phosphates.

In 8. W. Fox, ed., The Origins of Prebiological Systems, The Aca-

demic Press, New York, pp. 207-219, 1965.

Is the early evolution of life related to the development of the
earth’s core? Nature, vol. 206, p. 448, 1965.

SAGAN, C., and CoLteman, S. Spacecraft sterilization standards and
contamination of Mars. Astron. Aeronaut., vol. 3, pp. 22-27, 1965.

Sacan, C.; Hanst, P. L.; and Younc, A. T. Nitrogen oxides on
Mars. Planet. Space Sci., vol. 13, pp. 73-88, 1965.

SAGAN, C.; PHANEvF, J. P,; and Innat, M. Total reflection spectro-
photometry and thermogravimetric analysis of simulated Martian
surface materials. Icarus, vol. 4, pp. 43-61, 1965.

SAGAN, C., and Poxtiack, J. B. Spacecraft observations of Venus.
Ann. d’Astrophys., vol. 28, pp. 229-233, 1965.

Sacan, C., and Swan, P. R. Martian landing sites for the Voyager
mission. Journ. Spacecraft and Rockets, vol. 2, pp. 18-24, 1965.

See also Pollack and Sagan.

SCHAEFFER, O. A.; STOENNER, R. W.; and FiremMan, E. L. Rare gas
isotope contents and K-Ar ages of mineral concentrates from the
Indarch meteorite. Journ. Geophys. Res., vol. 70, pp. 209-213,
1965.

SLowEy, J. See Jacchia and Slowey.

SouTHworRTH, R. B. The size distribution of the zodiacal particles.
Ann. N.Y. Acad. Sci., vol. 119, pp. 54-67, 1964.

ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY 237

. See also Elford, Hawkins, and Southworth; Hawkins, Lind-
blad, and Southworth; Hawkins, Southworth, and Rosenthal;
Hawkins, Southworth, and Verniani.

Strom, S. E., and Avrett, E. H. Detailed examination of a non-grey
stellar atmosphere (abstract). Astron. Journ., vol. 69, p. 559, 1964.

. The temperature structure of early-type model stellar
atmospheres. I. Details of a representative model. Astrophys.
Journ., vol. 140, pp. 1381-1390, 1964.

Strom, S. E.; Gincericu, O.; and Strom, K. M. Metal abundance
determinations for Vega and Sirius (abstract). Astrophys. Journ.,
vol. 70, p. 148, 1965.

. See also Avrett and Strom; Gingerich, Mihalas, Matsushima,
and Strom.

Tries, D. Atmospheric noble gases: solar wind bombardment of
extraterrestrial dust as a source mechanism. Science, vol. 148, pp.
1085-1088, 1965

. Anomalous argon isotope ratios in particles from Greenland
ice and Pacific Ocean sediments (abstract). Tirans. Amer. Geophys.
Union, vol. 46, p. 117, 1965.

TsuruTA,S. Neutronstar models. Dissertation, Columbia University.
New York, 1964.

TsuruTA, S.; WricuT, J. P.; and Cameron, A. G. W. Oscillation
periods of neutron stars. Nature, vol. 206, pp. 1137-1138, 1965.
Ves, G. On the optimum use of satellites for geodesy. COSPAR
Information Bulletin No. 20, November 1964; also in Bull. Géodésique,

No. 74, pp. 283-290, December 1964.

Establishment of a European satellite tracking network.

Presented at the Symposium on the Smithsonian Astrophysical

Observatory Tracking Network, Paris, December 1964.

. Le réseau de tracking de lobservatoire de Smithsonian et

les résultats géodésiques. Presented at a colloquium following the

Symposium on the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory Tracking

Network, Paris, December 1964.

. The deflection of the vertical of major geodetic datums and

the semimajor axis of the earth’s ellipsoid as obtained from satellite

observations. Jn Space Research V, P. Muller, ed., North-Holland

Publ., Amsterdam, pp. 849-875, 1965.

See also Aardoom, Girnius, and Veis; Whipple and Veis.

VERNIANI, F. On the density of meteoroids. II: The density of faint
photographic meteors. Il Nuovo Cimento, vol. 33, pp. 1173-1184,
1964.

. Densita e struttura delle meteore. Ric. Sci., vol. 34, pp.

5-12, 1964.

238 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965

VERNIANI, F. On the luminous and ionizing efficiencies of meteors
(abstract). Astron. Journ., vol. 69, p. 561, 1964.

Aspetti attuali della fisica e dell’ astronomia delle meteore.

Ric. Sci., vol. 45, pp. 377-415, 1964.

—. On the luminous efficiency of meteors. Smithsonian Contr.
Astropyhs., vol. 8, pp. 141-172, 1965.

VERNIANI, F., and Hawkins, G. S. Masses, magnitudes and densities
of 320 radiometeors. Harvard Radio Meteor Project Research
Report No. 12, March 1965.

See also Hawkins and Verniani; Hawkins, Southworth, and
Verniani.

WuirepLe, F. L. The history of the solar system. Proc. Nat. Acad.
Sci., vol. 52, pp. 565-594, 1964.

Evidence for a comet belt beyond Neptune (abstract).

Astron. Journ., vol. 69, p. 563, 1964.

Astronomy from the space stations and meteor problems

and photographs of the Perseids. ‘Jn T. Page and L. W. Page, eds.,

Wanderers in the Sky, Macmillan Co., New York, pp. 119-121, 1965.

Meteor problems and photographs of the Perseids. In T.
Page and L. W. Page, eds., Wanderers in the Sky, Macmillan Co.,
New York, pp. 203-206, 1965.

Wurpe es, F. L., and Veis,G. Erdvermessung mit Satelliten. Bild der
Wissenschaft, No. 5, pp. 397-404, 1965.

Wuitney, C. A. Gas dynamics of stellar atmospheres. Presented at
the Workshop on the Interdisciplinary Aspects of Radiative Trans-
fer, J.I.L.A., Boulder, Colo., Feb. 11, 12, 1965.

Wricut, F. W.; Hopce, P. W.; and FRANKLIN, F. A. The differences
between meteoritic and volcanic spherules. Presented at the Amer.
Astron. Soc. Meeting, University of Kentucky, March 16, 1965.

See also Hodge, Wright, and Langway.

Wricut, J. P. General relativistic instability . Phys. Rev., vol. 136,
pp. 288-289, 1964.

———. Solution of Einstein’s field equations for a rotating, stationary
and dust-filled universe. J. Math. Phys., vol. 6, pp. 103-105, 1965.

See also Tsuruta, Wright, and Cameron.

The Special Reports of the Astrophysical Observatory distribute
catalogs of satellite observations, orbital data, and preliminary results
of data analysis prior to journal publication. Numbers 157 through 180,
issued during the year, contain the following material:

No. 157, July 1, 1964
Atmospheric densities and temperatures from the drag analysis of the
Explorer 17 satellite, by J. Slowey.
ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY 239

No. 158, July 10, 1964
Satellite orbital data: Satellites 1959 a1 (Vanguard 2), 1959 » (Van-
guard 3), 1960 12 (Echo 7 rocket), and 1961 61 (Explorer 9), for July
1—Dec. 31, 1962; Satellites 1961 01 (Transit 4A) and 1961 02
(Injun 3) for July 19-Dec. 31, 1962; Satellite 1961 a61 (Midas 4) for
Mar. 13—Dec. 31, 1962; and Satellite 1962 ae1 (Telstar 7) for July
17—Dec. 31, 1962, prepared by I. Izsak.
No. 159, July 17, 1964
Satellite orbital data: Satellites 1958 a (Explorer 7), 1959 a1 (Vanguard
2), and 1959 (Vanguard 3) for Apr. 1—July 1, 1963; Satellite 1959
ul (Explorer 7) for Apr. 1-Sept. 2, 1963; Satellite 1960 11 (Echo 7),
1960 £1 (Explorer 8), and 1961 61 (Explorer 9) for Apr. 1—July 1, 1963,
prepared by I. Izsak.
No. 160, July 27, 1964
Satellite orbital data: Satellites 1958 a (Explorer 7), 1959 a1 (Vanguard
2), 1959 » (Vanguard 3), 1960 £1 (Explorer 8), 1961 61 (Explorer 9),
1962 ael (Telstar 1), 1962 Bul (Anna 7B), 1962 Br2 (Injun 3), and
1962 Bel (Relay 71) for July 1-Oct. 1, 1963; Satellite 1960.1 (Echo 7)
for July 1—-Sept. 30, 1963; Satellite 1963 9A (Explorer 77) for Apr.
3-Oct. 15, 1963; Satellite 1963 13A (Telstar 2) for May 7—Oct. 1,
1963; and Satellite 1963 26A (Geophysics Research) for July 9—Oct. 1,
1963, prepared by B. Miller.
No. 161, August 3, 1964
Differential orbit improvement (D@I-3), by E. M. Gaposchkin.
No. 162, August 14, 1964
Measures of the earthshine, by G. Bakos.
No. 163, September 11, 1964
Coated metallic grains as a source of interstellar absorption lines, by
C. A. Whitney.
No. 164, October 1965
Analytical development of the planetary disturbing function on a
digital computer, by I. G. Izsak, B. Benima, and S. B. Mills.
No. 165, November 2, 1964
New determination of zonal harmonics coefficients of the earth’s
gravitational potential, by Y. Kozai.
No. 166, November 30, 1964
Thermal effect on the rotational period of an artificial satellite,
by G. Colombo and P. Higbie.
No. 167, December 21, 1964
Proceedings first Harvard-Smithsonian conference on stellar atmos-
pheres.
No. 168, March 19, 1965
Catalog of precisely reduced observations: Satellite 1962 yl
240 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965

(Anna 1B passive) for Nov. 1, 1962—Aug. 31, 1963; Satellite 1962
Bui (Anna 7B flash) for Nov. 1, 1962,—Apr. 30, 1963, and for
Aug. 1-31, 1963, prepared by P. Stern and J. MacDonald.
No. 169, March 24, 1965
Satellite orbital data: Satellites 1958 a@ (Explorer 7), 1959 al
(Vanguard 2) 1959 » (Vanguard 3), 1960 11 (Echo 7), 1960 £1
(Explorer 8), 1961 61 (Explorer 9), 1962 ael (Telstar 7), 1962 Bul
(Anna 7B), 1962 Br2 (Injun 3), 1962 Bv1 (Relay 7), 1963 13A
(Telstar 2), and 1963 26A (Geophysical Research) for Oct. 1—Dec. 31,
1963; and Satellite 1963 30D for Oct. 30-Dec. 31, 1963.
No. 170, December 30, 1964
Static diffusion models of the upper atmosphere with empirical
temperature profiles, by L. G. Jacchia.
No. 171, March 26, 1965
Densities and temperatures from the atmospheric drag on six
artificial satellites, by L.G. ajaechta and J. Slowey.
No. 172, April 28, 1965
The volcanic dust sampling program of the Smithsonian Astro-
physical Observing Stations, by F. W. Wright and P.W. Hodge;
based on field reports by A. Oakes, R. La Count, and S. Tishler.
No. 173, May 24, 1965
The Prairie Meteorite Network, by R. E. McCrosky and H. Boe-
schenstein, Jr.
No. 174, May 17, 1965
Proceedings of the second Harvard-Smithsonian conference on
stellar atmospheres.
No. 175, April 23, 1965
An analysis of the atmospheric trajectories of 413 precisely reduced
photographic meteors, by L. G. Jacchia, F. Verniani, and R. E.
Briggs.
No. 176, May 17, 1965
Some results at Smithsonian Observing Stations, by P. Brand, L.
Solomon, J. Mazzotta, R. Proctor, J. Latimer, and E. Monash.
No. 177, May 3, 1965
Catalog of satellite observations: Satellites 1958 a1 (Explorer 7),
1959 a1 (Vanguard II), 1959 41 (Vanguard III), 1960 11 (Echo J),
and 1960 12 (Echo I rocket) for July 1—Dec. 31, 1963, prepared
by B. Miller.
No. 178, May 5, 1965
Catalog of satellite observations: Satellites 1960 ¢1 (Explorer VIII),
1961 61 (Explorer IX), 1961 01 (Transit 4A), 1961 02 (Jnjun Solar
Radiation 3), and 1962 ael (Telstar 7), for July 1—-Dec. 31, 1963;
Satellite 1962 11 (Cosmos 3) for Aug. 15-18, 1963; Satellite 1962
ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY 241

01 (S57/UKT) for Dec. 1-5, 1963; Satellite 1962 af1 (Cosmos 8)
for Aug. 3-16, 1963; and Satellite 1962 Bal (Alouette) for Oct.
15-31, 1964, prepared by B. Miller.
No. 179, May 7, 1965
Catalog of satellite observations: Satellites 1962 Bui (Anna 7B),
1962 Br (Injun 3); 1962 Bv1 (Relay 7), and Satellite 1963 13A
(Telstar 2) for July 1-Dec. 31, 1963; Satellite 1963 9A (Explorer
XVII) for July 1-Nov. 6, 1963; Satellite 1963 10A (Cosmos 74)
for July 31-Aug. 30, 1963; Satellite 1963 26A (Geophysics Research)
for June 29—Dec. 31, 1963; and Satellite 1963 30D for Oct. 30—
Dec. 31, 1963.
No. 180, June 4, 1965
Transfer of radiation in stochastic media, by G. B. Rybicki.

789-427— 66——27
Bs | sueaaAOies my

{f sia i) Pim Sih aailionn CO asin eon
sath oe Aims Re ‘We na tspailionac «baie, TEER ef Bits
Be Ne ts, ieee Hs Seng inlay ERAS eed fowaey
1 Saat st Coot
, - sig, foe ' ined  eamolgesenle
cee Le) prduars ma apanth)y i ath Baek. a
stare nea he: iu > ble ee
(he isan) uke | ! as Py Aeon’ fy

il te nnoytayaly ase ar bene D Was | Rieae Weed, 4"
“iE sek mi EOS: f beak. eta baa feal ytitia

(Sh

Ab bry.) y bd i F i ,
h A can aces TARe. SMe | wa
Sitvidclin Oh Se dee ee { wit) ie ib ray vy i a: 7
bic a Mi HERE, Re EN RRR EL EE 52 TE at hak BASSE fo
, } % ; U ie ' 7
ar } " oe Fi i : he ,
Fea oa mL MEATY Ne Oc aad oe Bs Ge AY, whe
“puts ? ; (one
ML ey eae Lng i ee oe yee oe ee a
‘ ti fe
ni Oy 9
i by : et hol
ith te ' ‘ bia
et § Aa oe he 8 Tah ee Vrs WER BE,
ATs
r J ‘Bt Pn dre aa * Cl fe iy
i wy
aut Ga | 4 TV iy AY. itu t Pe
. 4 * y
it a .
‘
f * : *
bt yee be | ory i RG " v i” *
i rh {
re
yi ' Baty ;
tigl
yl ijt ‘ pre | a lee
av iy a
me i , i
BPO R YG Reb Rew
‘ r
Pt Oe ha ane jaya Ms TY ih.
A ie r

ae hac
UNE
sy

bers Oe, Soha 82h

\ ; ' a an ean / eh ~ yi a? at

sp gukne ae he at P a A batinlt ane CLO, oy

yin! wey J, CRORE, if, tae: Cae iH Me

By ea a a ia hk

mf isu ait RN ee tt ct tart ueeaives fer

hay eh ee ie Ai Wd, KM date Ay

‘peat LOOM: Omit Piss Eat Sieh
hy 8, Bile Ec Se an

National Collection of Fine Arts

National Collection of Fine Arts
Davip W. Scott, Director

The past year was one of dramatic developments for the National
Collection of Fine Arts. The physical aspect of the Collection has
changed in many ways, and its nature and plans have been no less
affected.

Physically, the Collection is administered from a new group of
offices; it boasts a remodeled library and art hall; it is developing a
large staging area on 24th Street, and it is engaged in very active
planning in connection with the current remodeling of the Old Patent
Office Building. Its planning during the past year extended even
further, to include considerations for the development of display areas
on the Mall, in the old Court of Claims Building, and in the John F.
Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts.

The staff nearly tripled in size within the year. Beginning with 8
regular employees in July 1964, it had doubled by January and reached
22 by the end of June. The administrative side was greatly strength-
ened by the establishment of two administrative officers and corre-
sponding supporting staff. On the professional and curatorial side,
a department of exhibits and a department of painting and sculpture
were established.

A central concern of the staff has been the care and development of
the collections. The preliminary catalog listings have been completed
through the categories of painting, scultpure, drawings, and prints.
The Gellatly Collection was removed from the art hall so that ex-
tensive conservation could be undertaken. An increasing number of
donations of works of art has augmented the study, loan, and perma-
nent collections. The purchase of a John Marin watercolor inaugu-
rated a modest but vitally important program for rounding out the
survey of American art.

The wide expansion of the Collection’s activities had been inspired
and guided by the far-sighted legislation of May 17, 1938, and the
competition program which followed that legislative encouragement
for a gallery of modern and American art. The plans formulated
during the past year were based on such directives as those instructing
the bureau ‘“‘to encourage the development of contemporary art and to
effect the widest distribution and cultivation in the matters of such

245
246 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965

art”? and “‘to consider its province to be the cultural life of the com-
munity all over the United States and... its obligation to be the
encouragement of a high standard of quality among artists in the
fields of both the fine and practical arts.”

Bearing in mind these goals and others, including the Smithsonian’s
traditional role in research and the Collection’s function as a repository |
for Government art, the director has developed policy guidelines in
such studies as ““The Mission and Projects of the National Collection
of Fine Arts.”’ Specific plans and projects have followed: community
and educational exhibit proposals (including artmobiles); maintenance
of Government-owned art (for instance Works Progress Administration
[WPA] paintings); cooperative ventures with the Area Redevelopment
Administration, the Office of Education, the Art-in-Embassies program,
and the White House (Arts Festival); and a number of others. Gradu-
ate programs and research facilities are being developed.

A number of these projects are already bearing fruit. Probably the
Collection’s outstanding achievement of the year in support of American
art was the organization and presentation of the Stuart Davis Memorial
Exhibition, together with a catalog. This extensive exhibit (opened by
Mrs. Lyndon B. Johnson) was most effectively presented in the re-
modeled Art Hall. It may be said to reflect the high standards of
presentation and scholarship of the NCFA and also the determination
of the National Collection to present the great achievements of American
art to the nation and the world.

SMITHSONIAN ART COMMISSION

The 42d annual meeting of the Smithsonian Art Commission was held
in Washington on Tuesday, December 1, 1964. Members present
were Paul Manship, chairman; S. Dillon Ripley, secretary; Gilmore D.
Clarke, Page Cross, David E. Finley, Lloyd Goodrich, Walker Hancock,
Bartlett H. Hayes, Wilmarth S. Lewis, Henry P. McIlhenny, Ogden M.
Pleissner, Edgar P. Richardson, Charles H. Sawyer, and Stow Wengen-
roth. Also present were James Bradley, Assistant Secretary of the
Smithsonian Institution; David W. Scott, director of the National Col-
lection of Fine Arts; Donald McClelland, acting assistant to the director;
Richard P. Wunder, curator of paintings and sculpture; and Harry
Lowe, curator of exhibits.

Recommendations were made for the reappointment of Edgar P.
Richardson, Charles Sawyer, and David E. Finley for the usual 4-year
period. Dr. Richardson was elected chairman of the Commission
replacing Paul Manship, who had served as chairman for many years
and who had requested that he not be reelected.
A view of the Stuart Davis Memorial Exhibition as it was shown in the National
Collection of Fine Arts’ Art Hall. The exhibition, organized by NCFA,
was shown in the Art Hall from May 28 through July 5, 1965, before going
on for exhibition at the Art Institute of Chicago, the Whitney Museum of
American Art in New York City, and the Art Galleries of the University of
California at Los Angeles. There were 127 works by Stuart Davis in the
exhibition; the one prominently shown in this photograph is a mural, titled
Allée, lent to the show by Drake University of Des Moines, Iowa.
John Marin’s The Sea, Maine, 1927, a watercolor and charcoal, 1643 X 19%
inches. A new acquisition of the National Collection of Fine Arts.
NATIONAL COLLECTION OF FINE ARTS 247

The following officers were elected for the ensuing year: Edgar P.
Richardson, chairman; Gilmore D. Clarke, vice chairman; and S.
Dillon Ripley, secretary.

The following were elected members of the Executive Committee for
the ensuing year: David E. Finley, chairman; Gilmore D. Clarke,
Ogden M. Pleissner, and Henry P. McIlhenny, with Edgar P. Richard-
son and S. Dillon Ripley, ex officio.

Mr. Ripley commented on the National Collection of Fine Arts and
the appointment of Dr. Scott as the Collection’s new director. He said
that the current atmosphere in Washington appears to be suitable for
the enhancement of the National Collection and that we can look for-
ward with hope and great enthusiasm.

Mr. Bradley remarked on current status of plans on remodeling of
the Old Patent Office Building. He said that construction had already
begun and that completion was expected in about 22 months’ time.

Events of the past year and for the future were briefly outlined by
Dr. Scott and commented upon by members of the Commission.

The Commission discussed the need to stimulate gifts and donations
to the Collection.

The Commission then reviewed works of art presented for their study
and recommended the acceptance or rejection of these works as a part
of the Collection.

ACCESSIONS

The Collection was increased by 1,243 new acquisitions from 27
donors during the year. These include 209 paintings and drawings,
7 pieces of sculpture, 1,025 graphics, and 2 decorative art objects.
Significant among these accessions are a pair of portraits attributed to
Jacob Eicholtz (1776-1842), Fane Evans Tevis and Joshua Tevis, given
by the Misses Emily and Nanny Chase; two early 19th-century
portraits of Margaret Schley Goldsborough and Edward Yerbury Goldsborough
by an undetermined artist, given by Miss Mary L. Schaff; a painting,
Farmyard in the Snow, by the Ash-Can School painter James Preston
(1873-1962), given by Mrs. Chester Browne; two murals by Ezra
Winter (1886-1949), the gift of Mrs. Winter; representative examples
of the work of Frank C. Kirk (1889-1963), given by Mrs. Kirk; a
mural by Griffith Baily Coale (1890-1950), given by the United
States ‘Line; two ‘other works by Coale, gifts of the artist’s widow;
a study of an unexecuted equestrian monument, Work Horse, given by
the artist Anna Hyatt Huntington (born in 1876); a large abstract
painting by Charles Green Shaw (born 1892), given by the artist;
1,000 19th-Century engravings, the gift of Joseph V. Reed; and a
248 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965

watercolor, The Sea, Maine, 1927, by John Marin (1870-1953), acquired
by purchase.

The U.S. Department of Labor transferred 150 paintings executed by
various American artists under the auspices of the Works Progress
Administration during the 1930’s. Included among these are works by
Morris Graves (born 1910), Ivan Albright (born 1897), and Jerome
Myers (1867-1940). In addition, the department of zoology, Museum
of Natural History, transferred two paintings by James Henry Moser
(1854-1913), The Still Hunt and Where the Millions Have Gone.

A group of 20th-century paintings and drawings was made available
for the Collection’s lending service through the generosity of Olin Dows.

THE CATHERINE WALDEN Myer FuNpD

The following was purchased from the Myer fund (established to
secure first-class works of art for the use and benefit of the NCFA):

1964-2-1 watercolor. The Sea, Maine, 1921,
by John Marin (1870-1953).

THe Henry WarRpD RANGER FUND

According to a provision of the Henry Ward Ranger bequest,
paintings purchased by the Council of the National Academy of
Design from the fund provided by the bequest and assigned to American
art institutions may be claimed during the 5-year period beginning
10 years after the death of the artist represented. The following
painting was considered for action by the Smithsonian Art Commission
at its meeting December 1, 1963:

No. 64. The Chief’s Canoe, oil by Belmore Browne (1880-1954),
was accepted to become a permanent accession.

ALICE PikE BARNEY MEMORIAL FUND

Additions to the principal during the year amounting to $2, 305. 10
increased the total invested sums in the Alice Pike Barney Memorial
Fund to $47,014.08.

Tue AuicE PrKreE BARNEY MEMORIAL LENDING COLLECTION

Forty-three works of art were loaned through the year, and 23
works were returned.

Fifty-six paintings were examined, and priorities were established
for the restoration of paintings and frames. Seven works are now in the
process of restoration.
NATIONAL COLLECTION OF FINE ARTS 249

Harold Colborn of Washington, D.C., donated to the collection
Madame R. by Alice Pike Barney.

THE COLLECTION

LoANns TO OTHER INSTITUTIONS

Amon Carter Museum of Western Art, Fort Worth, Tex.
Archives of American Art, Detroit, Mich.

Arts Council of Great Britain, London, England

Direzione Belle Arti, Venice, Italy

Gallery of Modern Art, New York, N.Y.

Los Angeles County Fair Association, Pomona, Calif.
Marycrest College, Rock Island, Il.

Museum of Fine Arts, St. Petersburg, Fla.

Newark Museum, Newark, N.J.

Staddtisches Museum Haus Koekkoek, Kleve, Western Germany
University of California Art Gallery, Santa Barbara, Calif.
University Gallery, Gainesville, Fla.

University Museum, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pa.
University of Wisconsin Art Gallery, Madison, Wis.
Yellowstone County Fine Arts Center, Billings, Mont.

Total

ew

—

&
—s

Works oF ART ON LOAN TO THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT

Bureau of Internal Revenue

Bureau of the Budget

Federal Aviation Agency

Interstate Commerce Commission

National Science Foundation

Office of Economic Opportunity

Smithsonian Institution

U.S. Civil Service Commission

U.S. Department of Justice

U.S. Department of Labor

U.S. Department of Treasury

U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia

U.S. Senate

White House

White House (Office of the Vice President)

White House (Office of Special Assistant to the President)

White House:
(Office of S.R. for Trade Negotiations)
(Plans for Progress)

Total 230

_—

ol

—=
POUR ATAN NO MNYW KK YD OF © Lo

= =)

wo

250 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965

RESTORATION

During the year 10 paintings were restored by Harold F. Cross, 2
by Ben B. Johnson, 1 by H. Stewart Treviranus, and 1 by Janice W.
Hines. In addition, Mr. Cross examined paintings in the collections
for condition, so as to establish a priority program for restoration
preliminary to reinstallation in the Old Patent Office Building.
Sixteen paintings by Albert Pinkham Ryder were examined by Sheldon
Keck in anticipation of a special restoration project on these works.

SPECIAL EXHIBITIONS

The following chronological summary of the past year’s special
exhibitions reflects the NCFA’s new awareness of its responsibility
and potential as the Federal Government’s primary agent for the
recognition and encouragement of the Nation’s artists.

Jury 24-Aucusr 13, 1964. FourtH ALLt-Army Art EXHIBITION
The 20 final prize-winning works—4 each in the categories of oil,
watercolor, printmaking, drawing, and mixed media—selected
after a series of competitive exhibitions held at Army installations
around the world, comprised the exhibition.

Juty 25-Aucust 13, 1964. Poromac APPALACHIAN TRAIL CLUB
The Club’s exhibition followed the ‘Trail—through photo-
graphs—its whole length, showing the opportunities for enjoyment
and study of nature. A full program of talks, demonstrations, and
slide showings was presented in the Natural History Building’s
auditorium throughout the period of exhibition.

Aucust 22—-SEPTEMBER 10, 1964. SrxTH BIENNIAL CREATIVE CRAFTS

EXHIBITION
The Creative Crafts Council of Washington, representing seven
local craftsmen’s associations, sponsored this exhibition of a wide
variety of craftwork by their members. Among other crafts the
show included original designs in ceramics, textiles, metalwork,
and weaving.

SEPTEMBER 20—OcToBER 8, 1964. ANCIENT Rock PAINTINGS AND

ENGRAVINGS
The exhibition contained 26 panels composed of photographs,
casts, original surface prints, and drawings which surveyed pre-
historic painting and carving in areas all over the world. The
emphasis of the selection was on recent discoveries in the Great
Lakes region of the United States. Circulated by the Smith-
sonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service.
NATIONAL COLLECTION OF FINE ARTS 254

SEPTEMBER 20—OcTOBER 8, 1964. THE CapiraAL AREA ArT EXHIBI-

TION SPONSORED BY THE LANDSCAPE CLUB OF WASHINGTON, D.C.

A wide variety of representational subject matter was included in

the 122 paintings, graphics, and sculptures selected for the show by
the Club’s jury.

OcroBerR 17—NoOvEMBER 5, 1964. 71st ANNUAL EXHIBITION, SOCIETY

OF WASHINGTON ARTISTS
Ninety-seven paintings and sculptures by artists from the Washing-
ton area were selected by the Society.

OcToser 17—NoveMBER 5, 1964. WILDLIFE PAINTINGS OF BasIL EDE
Fifty-one watercolor paintings of birds by the contemporary
British artist Basil Ede comprised the exhibition. The showing was
jointly sponsored by the British Embassy, the English Speaking
Union, and the Audubon Society of the Central Atlantic States.

NovEMBER 14—DEcEMBER 3, 1964. WATERCOLORS By ‘‘PopP’’? HART
The exhibition contained 30 observations in watercolor of the life
and peoples of North Africa, the West Indies, Mexico, and the
South Seas by the colorful American artist George Overbury Hart.
Circulated by the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition
Service.

NovemBer 14—DeEcEMBER 13, 1964. One HuNnpRED Books FROM

FINLAND
The exhibition, organized by the Finnish Publishers’ Association,
displayed a large selection of recent volumes from several popular
presses of Finland. NCFA’s presentation added several antique
books, fabrics, and artifacts from Finland.

DeEcEMBER 13, 1964—JANuARY 3, 1965. 27TH ANNUAL AMERICAN ART

LEAGUE
The American Art League’s annual exhibition included 126
paintings, graphics, and sculptures by area artists.

DecemsBer 15, 1964—January 5, 1965. VASES FROM THE ETRUSCAN

CEMETERY AT CERVETERI
Fifty antique ceramics, primarily dating from the 6th and 5th
centuries, B.C., comprised the exhibition. The material was lent
from an Italian collection. Circulated by the American Federation
of Arts.

JANUARY 9-28, 1965. OpERATION PALETTE II—TuHeE Navy Topay
The exhibition, sponsored by the Department of the Navy, was
drawn from its large collection of paintings and drawings commis-
sioned as a record of the Navy’s activities and personnel. One
hundred and twenty works were shown.

FEBRUARY 9-22, 1965. SwepisH FoLk ART
Nearly 400 objects, mostly of 18th- and 19th-century date, were
252 SMITHSONIAN YEAR—1965

selected for exhibition by the Nordiska Museet of Stockholm.
Kitchen implements and farm tools, as well as major pieces of
furniture and objects connected with ceremonial events such as
weddings, displayed a deep-rooted concern for the quality of every-
day surroundings and a refinement of design that is characteristic
of the Scandinavian manufacture. Circulated by the Smithsonian
Institution Traveling Exhibition Service.

FEBRUARY 28—Marcu 21, 1965. THE DEAD SEA SCROLLS OF JORDAN
Fourteen scrolls and scroll fragments were the main feature of the
exhibit, but it included objects excavated from the religious com-
munity which produced and preserved them. Explanatory maps,
photographs, and charts coordinated the archeological treasures
into a unified presentation of the story of the scrolls’ discovery,
the people and culture which produced them, and their contempo-
rary importance to researchers in history, theology, and archeology.
Circulated by the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition
Service. .

Marcu 8—Aprit 5, 1965. DanisH ABsTRACT ART
This selection of work, ranging in date from 1938 through 1964 by
10 of Denmark’s pioneering painters and sculptors, presented an
ample experience of the development of contemporary abstract
artistic expression in Denmark. Circulated by the Smithsonian
Institution Traveling Exhibition Service.

Aprit 28—May 16, 1965. MEDIEVAL FRESCOES FROM YUGOSLAVIA
This exhibition of approximately 90 full-sized facsimiles of frescoes
from Yugoslavian churches offered a rare opportunity to view
monumental, Byzantine-style painting of the 11th through 14th
centuries. The copies of the originals were made under the super-
vision of the Gallery of Frescoes in Belgrade, which organized
the exhibition, and were of very fine quality. For NCFA the
presentation of this exhibition had an added significance—it
inaugurated the remodeled Art Hall. By combining the Foyer
Gallery and Art Hall display areas, the NCFA was able to present
the largest display of the murals in the United States. The
NCFA and Yugoslav Embassy cooperated in playing host to the
Dumbarton Oaks Byzantine Symposium in connection with this
exhibition. Circulated by the Smithsonian Institution Traveling
Exhibition Service.

May 28-Juty 5, 1965. Sruarr Davis MEmMorRIAL EXHIBITION
The Stuart Davis Memorial Exhibition was certainly one of the
the most important exhibitions in NCFA’s history. The show was
intended as a memorial tribute to one of the commanding figures
in 20th-century American painting, This evaluation of the status
NATIONAL COLLECTION OF FINE ARTS 253

of Stuart Davis could be defined by bringing together representative
works from the whole range of his artistic lifetime as well as con-
centrating on presentation of paintings of outstanding excellence.
One hundred and twenty-seven of Davis’s works—from an early
watercolor portrait of 1911 to several canvases left unfinished at
his death in 1964—were lent at NCFA’s request from 50 private
and museum collections.

NCFA coordinated the exhibition’s tour to the Art Institute of
Chicago, the Whitney Museum of American Art in New York,
and the Art Galleries of the University of California at Los Angeles.
The exhibit was opened by Mrs. Lyndon B. Johnson, and dis-
tinguished guests included Mrs. Stuart Davis, her son Earl, and
Mrs. Edith Halpert.

June 5-17, 1965. “Draw, Cur, Scratcu, ErcHo—PrintT!”’
Fifty prints by American artists, in all major graphic media and
dating from the early 19th century to the present, made up this
exhibition, circulated by International Business Machines.

June 5-27, 1965. MoTuHer AND CHILp In MopERN ART
The exhibition was made up of 20 paintings, 20 prints and draw-
ings, and 7 sculptures, all related to the theme of maternity.
Display of the works of 47 artists produced a great range of style
and points of view. Circulated by the American Federation of
Arts.

SPECIAL PROJECTS

WurrE Houst CHANGING EXHIBITIONS

The first in a series of exhibitions of modern American painting and
prints has been hung in the Executive Wing of the White House under
the supervision of the director and with the assistance of Adelyn
Breeskin and Donald McClelland. The rotating exhibition presently
consists of 38 paintings and 53 prints by outstanding American artists
of the 20th century and has been made possible by loans from a number
of museums, collectors, and galleries.

Wuire House FESTIVAL OF THE ARTS

The director and Mrs. Breeskin served as art advisers for the first
White House Festival of the Arts held on June 14, 1965. The
Festival was concerned with both the visual and performing arts and
presented the best of our art today. The paintings selected ranged
from the realism of Andrew Wyeth to the “op art” of Richard
254 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965

Anuszkiewicz. The painting exhibition was designed and installed by
Harry Lowe, curator of exhibits.

JosepH HENRY STATUE

In preparation for the Smithson Bicentennial Celebration, Harry
Zichterman coordinated the task of cleaning and refinishing the Joseph
Henry statue in front of the Smithsonian Building. Before restora-
tion was initiated the metal and corrosive deposits of the statue were
analyzed by the Conservation Research Laboratory of the Smithsonian
Institution.

ART-IN-EMBASSIES PROGRAM

The State Department’s Art-in-Embassies program, under the
direction of Mrs. Nancy Kefauver, has been assisted by the National
Collection of Fine Arts. ‘The program’s purpose is to bring American
art to our embassies and in turn to improve our cultural image abroad.
The National Collection now serves as a repository and clearinghouse
for the Project’s collection of paintings, prints, sculpture, and other
objects prior to sending these works abroad. Dr. Scott also serves as
a member of the Executive Committee for this important program.

EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH PROJECT

The National Collection of Fine Arts, the American Association of
Museums, the Graduate School of Education, Harvard University,
and the Arts and Humanities Branch of the Office of Education are
sponsoring a survey study, conducted by Bartlett Hayes, Jr., director of
the Addison Gallery, the purpose of which is to investigate the scope
and effectiveness of existing museum programs of educational art
exhibits in the United States, in order to determine how these programs
may be extended, supplemented, coordinated, and strengthened.

AREA REDEVELOPMENT ADMINISTRATION

The National Collection of Fine Arts entered in a contract with the
Area Redevelopment Administration to provide professional evalua-
tions of proposals the latter receives in the fields of arts and crafts.
This involves determination of quality, acceptability, and the potential
of items produced under the proposal to sustain a livelihood for crafts-
men and their associates. A study of private and governmental
NATIONAL COLLECTION OF FINE ARTS 255

activities in this field is being made under the supervision of the
director and staff by Charles Counts (special consultant), who is pri-
marily concerned with this project.

LIBRARY OF THE NATIONAL COLLECTION OF FINE
ARTS AND THE NATIONAL PORTRAIT GALLERY

Ending a 12-year period when no full-time staff member was assigned
to the library, regular operation was resumed in November 1964.
The library now serves the National Portrait Gallery as well as the
National Collection of Fine Arts.

Although some new books and journals were acquired during the
period mentioned, there were omissions of many important books and
exhibition catalogs of the past decade; concentrated ordering of some
of the most important of these has been a top priority project.

The most important aspects of renewed activity during the year were
the addition of a second staff member, the library assistant, in January
1965, and the move of the library collection to more spacious and
attractive temporary quarters in April. The arrival of the library
assistant provided the resources needed to give proper attention to the
bureau library’s own acquisitions and loan records as well as to the
physical collection itself, and also enabled the reestablishment of
reference service to the Institution’s growing staff.

During the year the library ordered 334 titles and 167 titles were
cataloged. The slide collection was augmented by the addition of 181
slides, 46 of which were of the work of Albert Pinkham Ryder.

Notable gifts received by the library during the year were: The
Graphic Work of Mary Cassatt; a Catalogue Raisonné, by Adelyn D.
Breeskin, New York, 1948, gift of the author; six catalogs of con-
temporary art, by Roman Norbert Ketterer, Lugano, Switzerland,
gift of the author; Portraits in Delaware, 1700-1850, published by the
National Society of Colonial Dames of America, Delaware Chapter,
Wilmington, 1951, gift of the Society; and The Arts in Early American
History, by Walter Muir Whitehill (bibliography by Wendall and Jane
Garrett), Chapel Hill, 1965, gift of the Institute of Early American
History and Culture, Williamsburg, Va.

The library must continue to build its strength as a general art
reference collection. The following areas of concentration, however,
are to be developed in depth to serve the special interests of the spon-
soring bureaus: American painting and sculpture; portraits in all
media, especially American portraits; American biography and
history; and the 20th-century art of all countries.
256 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965
PUBLICATIONS

Publications issued by the National Collection of Fine Arts are as
follows:
Preliminary Catalogue listing of Paintings, Drawings, and Sculpture, 127 pp.,
no. 41449-64.
Preliminary Catalogue Listing of Prints, 73 pp., no 44625-64.
Stuart Davis, 98 pp., 63 ills. (Smithsonian Publication 4614).

Four catalogs of the Traveling Exhibition Service were issued:

Medteval Frescoes from Yugoslavia, 32 pp., 31 ills. (Smithsonian Publi-
cation 4594).

American Primitive Watercolors, 10 pp. text, 5 ills. (Smithsonian Publi-
cation 4591).

Sketches by Constable, 32 pp. text, 56 ills. (Smithsonian Publication 4610).

Traveling Exhibitions 1965-66. 61 BE: ., 19 ills. (Smithsonian Publi-
cation 4609).

Leaflets were published in connection with the following Traveling
Exhibition Service exhibitions:
Watercolors by Pop Hart (Smithsonian Publication 4607).
Brazilian Tapestries (Smithsonian Publication 4592).
Old Master Prints.
Brass Rubbings from England.
Eugene Berman: New Stage Designs.

Other publications by staff members:
Richard P. Wunder, Architectural and Ornament Drawings of the 16th to
the Early 19th Centuries in the Collection of the University of Michigan
Museum of Art, 106 pp., Ann Arbor, 1965.

ADDITIONS TO THE STAFF

During the past year the following were added to the staff: Abigail
Booth, museum technician; Adelyn Dohme Breeskin, special consultant;
Waunita E. Franz, secretary; Kenneth R. Despertt, aide; James G.
Duggin, photographer; Shirley Harren, library assistant, NCFA-NPG;
Chris Karras, information specialist; Harry Lowe, curator of exhibits;
Edith T. Martin, clerk-typist; Ronald D. Miller, aide; Priscilla B.
Porter, museum technician; Jesse R. Price, clerk; Louise W. Robinson,
administrative officer; William H. Truettner, assistant curator, painting
and sculpture; Bayard Underwood, on contract as architectural con-
sultant; William Walker, librarian, NCFA-NPG; Richard P. Wunder,
NATIONAL COLLECTION OF FINE ARTS 257

curator, painting and sculpture; Marjorie S. Zapruder, registrar;
Harry W. Zichterman, administrative officer.

STAFF ACTIVITIES

Members of the staff devoted considerable time to the study of the
collections and new accessions. Research projects were carried out
in fields represented by the collections. Staff members also served
as jurors for a number of art exhibitions both locally and nationally.
Advice was given with respect to 515 works of art brought to the Collec-
tion for expert opinion by the curatorial staff. In addition, several
thousand requests for information were received by mail and telephone.

David W. Scott, director, represented the Smithsonian Institution
at the opening of the Los Angeles County Museum of Art; served as
juror at the Huntington Gallery of Art (Huntington, W. Va.); served
as guest lecturer and critic at Pennsylvania State College; published
*“A Restoration of the West Portal of Saint Sernin of Toulouse” in the
Art Bulletin, Fall, 1964; spoke on ‘“Traveling Exhibitions” for the annual
meeting of the Arts Councils of America, held in Washington; served
on the Executive Council of the Art for Embassies program of the
Department of State.

Mrs. Adelyn D. Breeskin, special consultant for Fine Arts, was a
member of the jury for the Carnegie International Exhibition, Pitts-
burgh, Pa.; a member of the Board for the Print Council of America;
lectured as an American Specialist throughout the Orient for the
Department of State; and lectured at the Newark Museum on “The
Rise of Women Artists.”

Donald McClelland, assistant to the director, lectured on Albert
Pinkham Ryder at the University of Chicago and at the National
Gallery of Art; served as member of the Board for the Mackinac
Historical Society; and acted as a consultant for Fine Arts to the
National Headquarters of the Episcopal Church.

Richard P. Wunder, curator of painting and sculpture, served as
director of the Drawing Society; was an adviser to the Museum of
Early American Folk Art, New York, and the Olana Preservation
Committee.

Harry Lowe, curator of exhibits, represented NCFA and the Ameri-
can Association of Museums at the opening of the St. Petersburg, Fla.,
Museum of Art; lectured at the annual meeting of the Tennessee Asso-
ciation of Museums; lectured on ‘“‘The American Tate” for the
Centennial Club of Nashville, Tenn., and on “‘What Makes the
Difference in Art?’ for the National Conference of the Society of
Technical Writers and Publishers.

789-427—66——28
258 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965

Rowland Lyon, curator of the lending collection and information
service, exhibited in two print exhibitions; acted as a consultant to
the Society of Washington Artists and the Landscape Club of
Washington.

Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service

The National Collection of Fine Arts was instructed (PR 95 of the 75th
Congress, 1938) to present exhibits throughout the United States in
order ‘‘to foster . . . a growing appreciation of art, both of past and
contemporary time.” ‘The Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibi-
tion Service (SITES), a unit of the National Collection of Fine Arts,
serves to implement the legislative mandates given to the National
Collection of Fine Arts. SITES circulates exhibitions of cultural and
educational value throughout the United States and Canada as a
service to museums, galleries, colleges, libraries, and their public. The
negotiations, preparations, and organization of these circulated exhibi-
tions are undertaken by the Traveling Exhibition Service, a self-sup-
porting nonprofit organization financed through its rental fees.

The year 1964-1965 was one of great changes for the Traveling
Exhibition Service. Mrs. Dorothy Van Arsdale assumed the position
of chief, Mrs. Nancy Padnos, assistant chief; Miss Barboura Flues
became registrar and then exhibits coordinator, and Mrs. Louis Rose
became registrar. Additions to the staff during the year are Mrs.
Michael Taylor, exhibits coordinator; Mrs. Sarah McGurgan, typist;
Herbert Hodge, clerk; Mrs. Sadie Curtin, accounting technician.

With these changes the staff for the next year includes, besides the
chief and assistant chief, four exhibits coordinators, an accounting clerk,
a registrar, a typist, and file clerk. As soon as space is found, an
administrative secretary will be added, and SITES will be in a much
improved position to expand its offerings and service.

TRAVEL

In November 1964, Mrs. Van Arsdale visited three museums in San
Francisco, one in Portland, Oreg., two in Seattle, one in Denver, one
in Omaha, and one in Minneapolis. Mrs. Van Arsdale, Mrs. Padnos,
and staff members also visited museums and collections along the eastern
seaboard.

Mrs. Padnos left for Europe the early part of June to visit museums
and galleries in England, France, Italy, Switzerland, and Germany.
NATIONAL COLLECTION OF FINE ARTS 259

EXHIBITIONS

The Service has initiated 41 new shows this year and continued 81
from previous years. It has negotiated an exhibition of Treasures from
Turkey. Among exhibitors are 106 public schools and 57 libraries,
community centers, etc. The Service has made a total of about 586
bookings this past year and, with a total budget of approximately
$200,000, has had an estimated 1,000,000 viewers.

1956-57:
1957—58:

1956-50:

1959-60:

1960-61:

1961-62:

1962-63:

1963-64:

EXHIBITS CONTINUED FROM PRIOR YEARS

Japan II by Werner Bischof.
The American City in the 19th Century; Theatrical Posters of the
Gay Nineties.
Advertising in 19th Century America; Religious Subjects in Modern
Graphic Arts.
Brazilian Printmakers; Images of War; Portraits of Greatness by
Yousuf Karsh; Paintings by Young Africans; Japan I by Werner
Bischof.
The America of Currier and Ives; American Art Nouveau Posters;
The Spirit of the Japanese Print; Americans—A View from the
East; Mies van der Rohe; Irish Architecture of the Georgian Period;
Brasilia—A New Capital; Designed for Silver; American Textiles;
The Image of Physics; The Beginnings of Flight; Tropical Africa I;
Tropical Africa II; Symphony in Color; Paintings and Pastels by
Children of Tokyo; Hawaiian Children’s Art.
Physics and Painting: UNESCO Watercolor Reproductions;
Caribbean Journey; The Swedish Film; The Story of a Winery;
Contemporary Italian Drawings; Contemporary Swedish Prints;
Japanese Posters; The Face of Viet Nam; Le Corbusier—Chapel
at Ronchamp; The Hidden World of Crystals; Children Look at
UNESCO; My Friends.
Eskimo Carvings; Holland; The New Generation: John Sloan;
American Prints Today—1962; Contemporary American Drawings
I; Eskimo Graphic Art II; Pakistan Stone Rubbings: Contemporary
Canadian Architecture; Twelve Churches; Today’s American
Wallcoverings; Craftsmen of the City; The Tradition of French
Fabrics; A Child’s World of Nature; West German Students’ Art;
Historic Annapolis; The Old Navy.
Alvar Aalto; Albers: Interaction of Color; Africa, Antarctica,
the Amazon; American Kindergarten Art; Contemporary American
Landscape Architecture; Fifty Years of American Prints; Recent
American Synagogue Architecture; Birds of Asia; The Bird that
Never Was; Prints by Mary Cassatt; Craftsmen of the Eastern
260 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965

States; Finnish Rugs and Tapestries by Oili Maki; Antonio
Frasconi 1952-63; Graphics 163; Hearts and Flowers; Indian
Miniatures; 7,000 Years of Iranian Art; The Nile; Treasures from
the Plantin-Moretus Museum; Religious Themes by Old Masters;
Eero Saarinen; Swedish Design Today; Swedish Folk Art; Swiss
Posters; Turner Watercolors; Washington—My City.

EXHIBITIONS INITIATED IN 1965

Archeology

Dead'Sea\Scrolls iin... . 7.08 sak Government of Jordan, Smithsonian Insti-
tution, Dr. Gus W. Van Beek.

Paintings and Sculpture

American Primitive Watercolors. Abby Aldrich Rockefeller Folk Art Collec-
tion, Williamsburg, Va.

Arte Programmata ...... Olivetti Corporation, New York City.
DanishyAbstract/Artyeojs sucess Danish Artists’ Committee; Danish
Embassy.

Watercolors by Pop Hart .. . Miss Jeanne O. Hart, Kew Gardens, N.Y.

Pueblo Indian Paintings . . . . Riverside Museum, New York City.

Modern Watercolors from Swedish Institute, Stockholm; Swedish
Sweden. Embassy.

The Art of the Yoruba ... . Dr. Lawrence Longo, University of

Pennsylvania.

Medieval Frescoes from Gallery of Frescoes, Belgrade; Embassy of

Yugoslavia. Yugoslavia.

Drawings and Prints

Contemporary American Norfolk Museum of Arts and Sciences,
Drawings IT. Norfolk, Va.
William Blake; Poet, Printer, William Blake Trust, London; Trianon
Prophet. Press, Paris.
Bridges, Tunnels, and Water- Smithsonian Institution, Division of Civil
works. Engineering, Robert M. Vogel.
Prints by Jacques Callot . . . . National Gallery of Art, Washington, D.C.;
Lessing J. Rosenwald; Robert L. Baumfeld.
Sketches by Constable . ... . Victoria and Albert Museum, London,

Graham Reynolds.
Contemporary Fine Presses in The Philadelphia College of Art.
America.
NATIONAL COLLECTION OF FINE ARTS 261

Eskimo Graphic Art III . . . . Eskimo Art, Inc., Ann Arbor, Mich.,
Eugene Power.
The Fabulous Decade ..... Free Library of Philadelphia; Miss Dorothy

Hale Litchfield.
Kokoschka: King Lear, Apul- Marlborough Fine Arts, London.
ian Journey, Hellas.
Prints from the Mourlot Press. . Mourlot Imprimeurs, Paris.
Mild Master Prints’ . . . . . . National Gallery of Art, Washington, D.C.;
Lessing J. Rosenwald.

Decorative Arts

American Costumes ...... Index of American Design, National

Gallery of Art, Washington, D.C.
minercan furniture ot. Index of American Design, National

Gallery of Art, Washington, D.C.
Eugene Berman: New Stage De- Artist; M. Knoedler and Company, New

signs. York City.
Brazilian Papesiries ..... Senor Genaro de Carvalho, Bahia, Brazil.
Masters of Ballet Design . . . . Spreckels Collection, California Palace of
the Legion of Honor, San Francisco, Calif.
MuralsinIuace . . . ..: . . Museum of Contemporary Crafts, New
York City; Collection Mme. Luba Krejci,
Czechoslovakia.
story
wheyAmericean Flag... .. . Library of Congress, Washington, D.C.
Be MepGucst), «5 se ss se Library of Congress, Washington, D.C.
Brass Rubbings from England . Mrs. Lewis Purnell, Jamaica, B.W.I.
NVGEICHEITS 0 3 wk we we Library of Congress, Washington, D.C.

Children’s Art

Paintings by Young Balinese . . Collection of Mrs. Gordon Wiles, Encino,
Calif.

Paintings by Mexican Children . The Phoenix Art Museum.

National High School Prints . . F. Louis Hoover, Normal State University,

Normal, Ill.

Natural History and Sctence

Ancient Rock Paintings and En- Cranbrook Institute of Science, Cranbrook,
gravings. Mich.
262 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965

Colors and Patterns in the Animal
Kingdom.

The Eskimo in a Changing
World.

The Stonecrop Family; Variations
on a Pattern.

CIBA Corporation, Basle, Switzerland;
Prof. Dr. A. Portmann.
Charles Gimpel, Gimpel Fils, London.

San Diego Museum of Natural History, Dr.
Reid Moran.

Photography

African Folkways of Angola and
Mozambique.
The Coloriof Water... . = «

The Eloquent Light «cry. 12 6-444

National Geographic Society; Museum of
Primitive Art, New York City.

Jeanette Klute, Photographer; Eastman
Kodak Company, Rochester, N.Y.

Mrs. Nancy Newhall, George Eastman
House, Rochester, N.Y.; Ansel Adams,
Carmel, Calif.

Architecture

Pier) Luigi Nervite!.) roimaliol) «

American Institute of Architects, New
York City.
Freer Gallery of Art
GiRe 1 CRE NT RR ORE

TTS eat Prakoenctla hey tiie LAAN Aoi | THEN
‘ Aaah Wey) th. } i it: Miah Dy My yb NA aur

er EE la Pi aR aR TMT dpsed Mae Oe a A

4

Wiggers CANA CEA SS RPA RORARLARRY Reels SG RROD AE

By Ph ibe,
dive Hi ALE Wp AUR ig NH:

sep

White, Putin el: Aumann coined Piper berann | aptiins Ahi nie
Pn OM heer is Putinnae Anek. yeaa Wve ball

bees eye i lice sale * hat bate: Wi bce F Ah) al

Pia Tatvle Wee,
Freer Gallery of Art

Joun A. Pore, Director

THE COLLECTIONS

Twenty-five objects were added to the collections by purchase as
follows:

GLASS

65.16. Egyptian (Roman period), possibly from Alexandria. Bowl of
purplish translucent matrix; ribbed on the outside with
opaque distorted spirals in millefiori technique. Slightly
iridescent. Said to have been found in northwest Iran.
Height: 0.052; diameter: 0.175.

METALWORK

64.10. Persian, Sasanian, 4th century A.D. Bowl, shallow, silver, on
low ring foot, with a Bacchanalian triumphal scene in flat
relief against a gilded background; in the exergue, a panther
drinking from a vase, flanked by a musician on either side.
Small areas of dirt accretions in interior; reverse oxidized
and partly covered with earthy accretions. Height: 0.041;
diameter: 0.219; weight: 1 lb. 140z. (Illustrated.)

PAINTINGS

64.9. Chinese, Sung, 13th century. ‘“‘Chien-tzu with a Shrimp Net.”
Kakemono, ink on paper. Inscription and one seal on the
painting. Height: 0.746; width: 0.279. (Illustrated.)

65.9. Chinese, Sung, 13th century, attributed to Hu Chih-fu. ‘“‘Saky-
amuni Emerging from the Mountains.” Hanging scroll, ink
on paper. Inscription and two seals on the painting. Height:
0.920; width: 0.317.

265
266

65.10.

65.13:

64.8.

64.11.

64.12.

64.13.

Od. L:

65.6.

65.2.

65.3.

SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965

Chinese, Ch’ing, dated 1759, by Chin Nung (1687-after 1764).
Plum blossoms. Ink and color on paper. Written label with
one seal on outside mounting; inscription and three seals on
the painting. Height: 1.302; width: 0.282.

Chinese, Ch’ing, 17th century, by Hung-jen. Landscape.
Hanging scroll, ink on paper. Artist’s inscription and seal,
and three collectors’ seals, on the painting. Height: 0.838;
width: 0.419.

Japanese, Edo, Nanga school, by Uragami Gyokudo (1745-
1820). ‘‘San Chu Dankin.’”? Landscape in ink, on paper.
Height: 1.286; width: 0.515.

Japanese, Edo, 18th century, Nanga school, by Ikeno Taiga
(1723-76). Landscape: “Red Cliff.’ Ink and color on
paper. Height: 1.308; width: 0.568.

Japanese, Edo, 18th century, Nanga school, by Ikeno Taiga
(1723-76). Landscape: ‘“‘Yo-yang Tower.” Ink and color
on paper. Height: 1.304; width: 0.568. (Ilustrated.)

Japanese, Namboku Cho—Ashikaga, 14th century, Yamatoe
school. Portrait of Kasuga Wakamiya. Ink, color and gold
on silk. Height: 0.853; width: 0.396.

Japanese, Ashikaga, 15th century, Yamatoe school. Portrait
of Fujiwara-no-Kamatari (A.D. 614-669), accompanied by
two sons. Ink, color and gold on silk. Height: 0.845; width:
0.381.

Japanese, Edo, Kano school, by Kano Naonobu (1607-50).
“Genji Monogatari’’—Tales of Genji, Ukifune, Chapter LI.
Ink and color on paper. One of a pair of screens: 65.5-65.6.
Height: 1.537; width: 3.526.

Japanese, Edo, Kané school, by Kand Naonobu (1607-50).
“Genji Monogatari”—Tales of Genji, Yugao, Chapter IV.
Ink and color on paper. One of a pair of screens: 65.5—-65.6.
Height: 1.537; width: 3.526.

POTTERY

Chinese, Ming, mid-15th century. Jardiniere with footed base
attached, and quatrefoil rim. Clay: fine white porcelain,
thick. Glaze: transparent, faintly bluish, streaky in some
areas. Decoration: in underglaze blue, a different flower
spray on each side (lotus, peony, -?- and camellia); small sprays
on base and foot. Height: 0.140; width: 0.260. (Illustrated.)

Chinese, Six Dynasties. Small dish on high footrim
with lip cut in quatrefoil form. Clay: transparent, creamy
FREER GALLERY OF ART 267

white, fine. Glaze: transparent, glossy, faintly bluish in
droplets. Decoration: none. Height: 0.045; diameter: 0.133.

65.4. Chinese, Ming, MHsiian-te period (1426-35). Dish with
slightly flaring plain rim. Clay: fine white porcelain. Glaze:
transparent. Decoration: five-clawed dragons among clouds
in overglaze iron red inside and out; six-character Hstian-te
mark in under-glaze blue on base. Height: 0.037; diameter:
0.190.

65.8. Chinese, T’ang. Rhyton in the shape of a duck. Clay: soft
light buff pottery. Glaze: transparent lead glaze with fine
crackle streaked with green and orangey brown; base unglazed.
Decoration: carved in relief for the wings and tail feathers of
the bird and to show floral motifs around the cup. Height:
0.124; length: 0.172.

65.11— Chinese, T’ang, Hsing ware. Five-lobed shallow bowls with

65.12. low foot. Clay: hard, fine-grained grayish buff stoneware.
Glaze: transparent, showing slightly bluish in thick areas;
base only partially glazed by accident. Decoration: a floral

device stamped inside center of bowl. Height: 0.045; diam-
eter: 0.127; diameter of base: 0.057 (65.11) and 0.054 (65.12).

65.14. Chinese, T’ang. Ovoid jar with flaring foot and three loop
handles at the neck. Clay: whitish buff stoneware. Glaze:
transparent, slightly creamy stopping unevenly short of base.

Decoration: none. Height: 0.165; diameter: 0.133.

65.15. Chinese, T’ang. Hemispherical bowl with flaring foot and

thickened, turned-over rim. Clay: whitish buff stoneware.
Glaze: transparent, slightly creamy, stopping unevenly short
of base; unglazed inside. Decoration: none. Height: 0.092;
diameter: 0.159.

65.7. Japanese, Edo, 17th century, Imari. Shallow dish with plain
rim. Clay: white porcelain. Six spur marks on_ base.
Glaze: transparent. Decoration: underglaze blue; a stylized
pine tree and clouds. Outside, continuous scroll pattern.
Imitation Ming Ch’eng-hua mark badly written on base.
Height: 0.060; diameter: 0.298.

65.17. Japanese, Edo, 17th century, Imari. Shallow dish with
rounded rim. Clay: white porcelain. Five spur marks on
base. Glaze: transparent, slightly grayish with some black
specks. Decoration: underglaze blue, floral border, and in
center, stylized pine tree leaning over a small plant. Out-
side, two stylized lotus scrolls. Imitation Ming Ch’eng-
hua mark badly written on base. Height: 0.070; diameter:
0.374.
268 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965

65.18. Japanese, Edo (ca. 1700), Imari. Hexagonal vase or sake
bottle with small flaring mouth. Clay: white porcelain.
Glaze: dark coffee brown around bottom with white run-
ning unevenly down from the top. Decoration: on white
glaze at shoulder and upper part, two eagles and branches
of trees in colored enamels and gilding. Height: 0.224;
diameter: 0.127.

Woop SCULPTURE

65.19. Japanese, Kamakura, late 13th century. jizo. Decorated
with kirigane; head, hands, and necklace separate; ear lobes
and some beads missing; partial repair. Height: 0.355;
width: 0.120.

Repairs To THE CoLLecTION

Thirteen Chinese and Japanese paintings and screens were restored,
repaired, or remounted by Mr. Sugiura, Oriental picture mounter,
who also made a large number of rubbings of Chinese bronzes and
sculptures. F. A. Haentschke, illustrator, remounted 91 Persian and
Indian paintings. Ben Johnson, professional painting restorer, worked
for some months at the Gallery, cleaning, repairing, and otherwise
restoring 21 American paintings.

Mr. Sugiura has also been working on a group of 11 Chinese and
Japanese paintings and screens belonging to the Philadelphia Museum
of Art, 6 of which have been completed; this work is being done in
exchange for a Chinese bronze ting which has been incorporated into
the Study Collection. In addition, he has completely cleaned, re-
paired, and retouched three Far Eastern screens belonging to the
Department of State.

Cuances In EXuIBITION

Changes in exhibitions amounted to 39, which were as follows:
American art—paintings 36
Chinese art—pottery 1
Near Eastern art—metalwork
FREER GALLERY OF ART 269
LIBRARY

The library has been well used during the year, both by the staff and
by students doing reference work. It also remains a continuing
source of information for casual visitors wanting less scholarly material
on the objects displayed in the galleries.

The slide collection has been greatly expanded, with the acquisition
of over 2,000 slides. Use of this resource has nearly tripled in the
past year, as indicated by the number of slides borrowed by both staff
members (73 percent) and by outside lecturers (27 percent). Most of
the slides were provided by the photographic laboratory.

During the year, 452 items were acquired by the library and inte-
grated into the collection; 257 of these were by purchase, and 195
were by exchange and gift. In addition, 286 photographs were added
to the study files. The year’s cataloging projects totaled over 1,000
entries; 488 analytics were made, and 3,022 cards were added to the
catalog.

There were 330 requests for information by telephone and letter.
Visitors were frequent: 670 scholars and students who were not
members of the Freer staff used the library resources, 4 saw and studied
either the Herzfeld archives or the Washington Manuscripts, and 3
came to see the library installation.

The following gifts deserve special mention because of their out-
standing quality. The Ellen Bayard Weedon Foundation has made
it possible to purchase the following items: Pelliot, Paul— Toumchoug
(Paris, 1961-64, two volumes); and Ota Ryo—Seishi kakei dai-jiten:
Great dictionary of family names and family lines (Tokyo, 1963 reprint, three
volumes). The library is receiving from the Felix and Helen Juda
Foundation the volumes from the Hiraki collection of Ukiyoe prints
currently being published in Tokyo, as well as a copy of Shin Saziki-ki:
New accounts of Chinese Turkestan—the journal of the Otani expedition
(Tokyo, 1937). Richard P. Gale has also presented a set of 125 slides
taken from his excellent collection of Japanese paintings. The gener-
osity which makes these acquisitions possible is greatly appreicated.

PUBLICATIONS

New editions of two publications were issued by the Gallery as
follows:

Freer Gallery of Art Occasional Papers, Volume I, Number 4: James
McNeill Whistler, A Biographical Outline Illustrated from the
Collections of the Freer Gallery of Art, by Burns A. Stubbs (Smith-
sonian Institution Publication 3994), originally published in 1950.
270 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965

Hokusai: Paintings and Drawings in the Freer Gallery of Art, by Harold P.
Stern (Smithsonian Institution Publication 4419), originally

published in 1960.

Publications of staff members were as follows:

CAHILL, JAMES F’.

ETTINGHAUSEN, RICHARD.

GETTENS, R. J.

“Ti Kung-lin”. In: Encyclopedia of World
Art. New York, McGraw-Hill, 1964.
Vol. 9; pp. 247-251, pls. 13210.

Introduction to: Chang Dat-chien; exhibition
of paintings Oct. 22—Nov. 2, 1963. New
York, Hirschl & Adler Galleries, Inc.,
1963, 27 pp., illus.

Review of “Chinese Art: Painting, Callig-
raphy, Stone Rubbing, Wood Engrav-
ing,’ by Werner Speiser, Roger Goepper,
and Jean Fribourg. In New York Review
of Books (June 3, 1965), vol. 4, no. 9,
pp. 23-24.

Review of “‘A History of Far Eastern Art,”
by Sherman E. Lee. In Saturday Review
(Dec. 12, 1964), vol. 47, no. 50, p. 45,
illus.

Review of “‘Cairo, City of Art and Com-
merce,’ by Gaston Wiet, translated by
Seymour Feiler. In Middle East, Wash-
ington, D.C. (spring, 1965), vol. 19, no. 2,
p. 243.

“The Corrosion Products of Metal Antiqui-
ties.’ In Smithsonian Annual Report for
1963, Washington, 1964, pp. 547-568,
10 plates.

Review of special issue (vol. 64, no. 1) of
Museums Journal. In Studies in Conserva-
tion (February 1965), vol. 10, no. 1,
pp: 20-97.

Review of “‘Orichalcum and Related An-
cient Alloys: Origin, Composition and
Manufacture with Special Reference to
the Coinage of the Roman Empire,” by
Earle R. Caley. In American Journal of
Archaeology (January 1965), vol. 69, No. 1,
p. 86.

Review of “Technical Supplements” in
FREER GALLERY OF ART aris!

Museum News. In Studies in Conservation
(February 1965), vol. 10, No. 1, p. 36.
STERN, Haro_p P. Interview: “Nihon Kobijutsu Junkai Ten;
the Traveling Exhibition of Ancient Japa-
nese Art.” In Nihon Byutsu, Tokyo (Jan-
uary 1965), No. 34, pp. 70-71, illus.
TROUSDALE, WILLIAM. ‘The Minaret of Jam; a Ghorid Monument
in Afghanistan.” In Archaeology (June
1965), vol. 18, No. 2, pp. 102-108, illus.

PHOTOGRAPHIC LABORATORY; SALES DESK

The photographic laboratory made 12,688 items during the year as
follows: 7,816 prints, 966 negatives, 3,642 color slides, 171 black-and-
white slides, and 93 color sheet films. At the sales desk 71,436 items
were sold, comprising 6,004 publications and 65,432 reproductions
(including postcards, slides, photographs, reproductions in the round,
etc.). These figures indicate a marked increase in the work of both the
photographic laboratory and sales desk over that of previous years.

BUILDING AND GROUNDS

The exterior of the building appears to be sound, with the exception
of the roof, which has continued to blister. There is, however, no
noticeable damage to date; the condition is being kept under close
surveillance. A new bronze handrail was installed at the south
entrance; during installation, the steps were damaged, and two pieces
of granite had to be replaced.

The sidewalk at the south entrance is in poor condition, and its
improvement is under discussion; the installation of a driveway to
remedy the dangerous condition at the receiving entrance is also under
consideration.

In the interior, new types of cases are being installed in Storage Room
2 for folding screens and outsize pictures; the latter in the past had no
adequate storage space. All window sills and trims have been touched
up and put into good condition.

The work in the cabinet shop was divided among numerous jobs,
including making and repairing furniture and equipment as the need
arose. Attribution of man-hours for this year: 80 percent to installation,
preservation, and restoration; 20 percent to building maintenance.

Seasonal plantings in the courtyard were made and have flourished,
and flower beds, first of bulbs and then of petunias, were made on the
north side of the building.
272 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965
ATTENDANCE

The Gallery was open to the public from 9:00 to 4:30 every day
except Christmas Day. The total number of visitors to come in the
main entrance was 211,104, an increase of approximately 25 percent
over that of the preceding year. The highest monthly attendance was
in June—31,015.

There were 2,856 visitors who came to the Gallery office for various
purposes—for general information, to submit objects for examination,
to consult staff members, to take photographs or sketch in the galleries,
to use the library, to examine objects in storage, etc.

AUDITORIUM
The series of illustrated lectures was continued as follows:
1964
October 73. Dr. Eleanor Consten von Erdberg, of the Rheinisch-

Westphdlische ‘Technische Hochschule, Aachen,
West Germany: ‘“T“ao-t‘iceh and Tao in Early
Chinese Art’’; attendance, 94.

November 70. Dr. George C. Miles, of the American Numismatic
Society, New York: ‘“Unknotting the Knotted
Column in Byzantine Architecture’; attendance,

125.
1965
January 72. William B. Trousdale, Freer Gallery of Art: “The
Archaeological Exploration of Afghanistan”; attend-
ance, 277.

February 23. Dr. Sherman E. Lee, of the Cleveland Museum of
Art, Cleveland, Ohio: “‘Nuances and Connoisseur-
ship in Chinese Painting”; attendance, 274.

March 23. Dr. David Talbot Rice, University of Edinburgh,
Scotland: “Two Rare Arabic Manuscripts in the
Edinburgh Library”; attendance, 119.

April 20. P. R. Ramachandra Rao, Critic of Indian Art,
Hyderabad, India: ‘“‘The Buddhist Sculpture of
Southeast India’’; attendance, 222.

The auditorium was also used by ten outside organizations for 31
meetings, with a total attendance of 5,070.
Silver bowl. Persian metalwork, Sasanian, 4th century A.D, 64,10,
Freer Gallery of Art.

Jardiniere. Chinese pottery, Ming dynasty, mid-15th century A.D.
65.2, Freer Gallery of Art.
Left, Landscape: Yo-yang Tower. Japanese painting, Edo period, 18th century
A.D., Nanga school, by Ikeno Taiga (1723-1776). 64.12, Freer Gallery of
Art. Aight, Chinese painting, Chien-tzu with a Shrimp Net. Sung dynasty,
13th century A.D. 64.9, Freer Gallery of Art.
FREER GALLERY OF ART 273
STAFF ACTIVITIES

The work of the staff members has been devoted to the study of new
accessions, of objects contemplated for purchase, and of objects sub-
mitted for examination, as well as to individual research projects in
the fields represented by the collection of Chinese, Japanese, Persian,
Arabic, and Indian materials. In all, 10,627 objects and 1,499 photo-
graphs were examined, and 781 Oriental language inscriptions were
translated for outside individuals and institutions. By request, 36
groups totaling 798 persons met in the exhibition galleries for docent
service by the staff members. Eight groups totaling 144 persons were
given docent service by staff members in the storage rooms.

Among the visitors were 188 distinguished foreign scholars or per-
sons holding official positions in their own countries, who came here
under the auspices of the Department of State to study museum admin-
istration and practices in this country.

TECHNICAL LABORATORY

Mrs. Elisabeth W. FitzHugh, assistant in technical research since
1956, resigned in December. This position has been temporarily filled
by student-intern William T. Chase of the Conservation Center, Insti-
tute of Fine Arts, New York University.

Reports were made on a total of 89 objects that passed through the
laboratory. Among these, 30 Freer objects, exclusive of paintings,
were examined and/or treated. Twenty-one paintings, mostly by
James McNeill Whistler, were cleaned, repaired, and resurfaced.
Among these, two were relined and eight were put on new stretchers.
Twenty objects and paintings being considered for purchase were
examined. Eighteen objects owned privately and by other museums
were examined and/or repaired. ‘Thirty-six identifications were made
by X-ray diffraction analysis. Forty-one inquiries were answered by
letter and numerous inquiries by telephone.

Technical studies continued on Chinese bronzes in preparation of
a forthcoming catalog on Ancient Chinese Bronze Ceremonial Vessels in
the Freer Gallery of Art. Further studies were made on the corrosion
products of metal antiquities. The editing of [JC Abstracts, published
by the International Institute of Conservation of Historic and Artistic
Works, London, was continued.

789-427—66——29
274

SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965

LECTURES BY STAFF MEMBERS

By invitation, the following lectures were given outside the Gallery
by staff members (illustrated unless otherwise noted):

1964
August 20.

October 8.

October 9.

October 72.

October 72.

October 29.

November 8.

November 73.

November 74.

December 3.

December 3.

December 70.

1965

January 29.

January 30.

Dr. Ettinghausen, in Denver, Colo., at the Denver Art
Museum: “*7,000 Years of Iranian Art’’; attendance, 500.

Mr. Gettens, in Spoleto, Italy, at the International
Symposium on the Problems of Conservation of Bronze
and Nonferric Metals: “The Corrosion Products of
Copper Alloys and other Non-Ferrous Metal Antiqui-
ties”; attendance, 75.

Mr. Gettens, in Spoleto: ““The Construction of Chinese
Bronzes’’; attendance, 75.

Dr. Ettinghausen, at the University of Pennsylvania,
Philadelphia: ““Man and Nature in Islam’’; attendance,
80.

Dr. James Cahill, at a Faculty Seminar, Skidmore College,
Saratoga Springs, N.Y.: “‘Confucianism, Taoism and
Buddhism in Chinese and Japanese Painting’; at-
tendance, 75.

Dr. Cahill, at the Hermitage Foundation, Norfolk, Va.:
“Chinese and Japanese Art in the Freer Gallery’;
attendance, 120.

Dr. Ettinghausen, at the William Rockhill Nelson Gallery
of Art, Kansas City, Mo.: ‘‘Persian Art of the Islamic
Period: Tradition and Change”’; attendance, 300.

Dr. Cahill, at the University of California, Berkeley:
**Yiian Chiang and His School’’; attendance, 70.

Dr. Cahill, at Mills College, Oakland, Calif., and at the
Society for Asian Art, San Francisco: ‘“The Expressive
Means of Later Chinese Painting’; attendance, 85 and
40, respectively.

Dr. Pope, at a meeting of the Archaeological Institute of
America at the Freer Gallery of Art: ““Early America and
the Far East’’; attendance, 38.

Dr. Cahill, at a meeting of the Sino-America Cultural
Society, Washington, D.C.: “‘A Photographic Expedition
to Taiwan’’; attendance, 200.

Dr. Ettinghausen, at the Foreign Service Institute, Wash-
ington, D.C..: “Culture of the Near East’’; attendance, 17.

Dr. Ettinghausen, at the University of Chattanooga,
Chattanooga, Tenn.: “Tradition and Change in Iranian
Art of the Islamic Period’’; attendance, 200.

Dr. Ettinghausen, at the University of Chattanooga:
“The Main Types of Iranian Architecture, Their Origin
1965

January 30.

January 30.

February 1.

February 16.

February 24.

February 26.

February 28.

March 3.

March 70.

March 72.

April 2.

April 5.

April 5.

April 6.

April 29.

FREER GALLERY OF ART 275

and Most Important Examples’, and: ‘Painting in the
Islamic World (Arabic, Persian, Turkish, and Indian)”’;
attendance, 14 at each lecture.

Dr. Pope, at the College Art Association meetings, Los
Angeles County Museum of Art, Los Angeles, Calif.:
“Preliminary Observations on the Use of Landscape
Decoration on Japanese Porcelain”; attendance, 150.

Dr. Stern, at the College Art Association meetings, Los
Angeles County Museum of Art: ‘fA Self-portrait of
Moronobu”’; aitendance, 150.

Dr. Cahill, at the Cosmos Club, Washington, D.C.:
“Works of Art of the Palace Museum Collection in
Formosa”; attendance, 150.

Dr. Cahill, at Brown University, Providence, R.I.: “The
Expressive Means of Later Chinese Painting’; at-
tendance, 350.

Dr. Ettinghausen, at the Department of State, Washington,
D.C.: “Iran, Turkey and Pakistan: The Affinity of
Their Civilizations”; attendance, 750.

Dr. Ettinghausen, at the Cleveland Museum of Art:
“The Islamic Phase of Iranian Art: Tradition and
Change”’; attendance, 150.

Dr. Stern, at the Minneapolis Institute of Arts; “‘Popular
Painting of Tokugawa Japan’’; attendance, 150.

Mr. Gettens, at the Museum of Natural History, Smith-
sonian Institution: “Minerals in Art and Archaeol-
ogy’; attendance, 678.

Dr. Pope, at Oxford University, England (William Cohn
Memorial Lecture): “Some Historic Collections and
Collectors in China”’; attendance, 160.

Dr. Pope, at the Percival David Foundation of Chinese
Art, London, England: ‘“‘Chinese Porcelain in Early
America’; attendance, 125.

Dr. Pope, at the Cleveland Museum of Art: “The Rise and
Fall of Angkor’’; attendance, 150.

Dr. Ettinghausen, at the Art Museum, University of
Michigan, Ann Arbor: ‘“‘Dionysian Elements in Sasanian
Art’’; attendance, 40.

Dr. Stern, at Skidmore College, Faculty Seminar on Far
Eastern Art and Culture: “Japanese Paintings, Prints,
and Decorative Arts”; attendance, 25.

Dr. Stern, at Skidmore College, student group: ‘“‘ Japanese
Paintings, Prints, and Decorative Arts’’; attendance, 300.

Mr. Trousdale, at Maryland Institute, Baltimore: “The
Archaeological Exploration of Afghanistan”; attendance,
150.
276

1965
May 71.

May 22.

SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965

Dr. Ettinghausen, at the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston:

‘‘Dionysiac Scenes in Sasanian Art’’; attendance, 121.

Dr. Pope, at the Frick Collection, New York: ‘‘Chinese

Porcelains in Early America’’; attendance, 175.

OFFICIAL TRAVEL

Members of the staff traveled outside Washington on official busi-

ness as follows:
1964
May 18-JFuly 7.

June &-September 2.

July 16-18.

July 28.

August 13-17.

August 15-
December 77.

September 17-78.

October 1--2.

October 7-23.

Mr. R. C. Mielke completed a trip through the Mid-
western States, where he saw the building installations
in the Dayton Art Institute, Cincinnati Art Museum,
John Herron Art Institute (Indianapolis), City Art
Museum of St. Louis, William Rockhill Nelson
Gallery of Art:(Kansas City, Mo.), Art Institute of
Chicago, Detroit Institute of Arts, Toledo Museum of
Art, and Cleveland Museum of Art.

Dr. Pope, in Europe, visited numerous museums and
saw private collections in Geneva and Basel, Switzer-
land; Paris, France; and in and near London, England.

Dr. Stern, in Philadelphia, examined numerous objects
at the Philadelphia Museum of Art and one private
collection.

Dr. Cahill, in Baltimore, examined numerous Chinese
paintings at the Walters Art Gallery.

Dr. Stern, in New York, attended the Exhibition of
Nepalese Art at Asia House, and examined Far
Eastern objects at a dealer.

Mr. Trousdale, in the Near East, participated in the
University of Michigan’s archeological excavation at
Qasr al-Hayr al-Sharqi, Syria; visited archeological
sites and architectural monuments, and examined
museum and private collections in Istanbul and
Ankara, Turkey; in Damascus, Syria; in Tehran, Qum,
Isfahan, Arbaquh, Yazd, Kirman, Bam, the Sistan
area, Kishmar, Mashhad, and Robat Sharaf, Iran;
and in Cairo and Alexandria, Egypt.

Dr. Cahill, in Ann Arbor, Mich., attended a special
committee meeting to plan for the Palace Museum
Photographic Archive.

Dr. Pope, in New York, examined numerous Far
Eastern objects at the Metropolitan Museum of Art
and at several dealers.

Mr. Gettens, in Italy, attended an International
Symposium on the Problem of Conservation of Bronze
October 16-
December 77.

November 5-7.

November 13-14.

December 8-72.
1965

January 2.

January 9.

January 9.

January 9.

January 13-14.

January 25-30.

FREER GALLERY OF ART 277

and Nonferric Metals held at Spoleto, October 5-15;
examined numerous bronzes and historical sites in
Perugia, Venice, Ravenna, Ancona, and Rome,
including Vatican City.

Dr. Stern, in Japan, attended conferences with the
Commission for the Protection of Cultural Properties
of the Ministry of Education of the Government of
Japan as participating member of Negotiations,
Selection, and Cataloging Committees of the America-
Canada Participating Museums for the Memorial
Exhibition, ‘“‘Masterpieces of Japanese Art,” 1965-
1966. Discussions were also held with the Cultural
Attache of the U.S. Embassy on plans for the next
Japan-America Cultural Conference. Examined
numerous objects in the Kyoto and Tokyo National
Museums, at the National Institute of Art Research,
various temples and private collections, and at dealers.

Dr. Cahill, in New York, attended a meeting of the
Committee on Studies of Chinese Civilization,
A.C.L.S.; and examined numerous objects at several
dealers.

Dr. Ettinghausen, in New York, attended the annual
meeting of the American Research Center in Egypt;
and examined objects at several dealers.

Dr. Pope, in New York, examined numerous objects
at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, in a private
collection, and at several dealers.

Dr. Ettinghausen, in Winchester, Va., examined Indian
miniatures in a private collection.

Dr. Pope, in New York, attended a meeting of the
Advisory Committee, Asia House Gallery.

Dr. Cahill, in New York, attended a meeting of the
Advisory Committee, Asia House Gallery; and
examined objects at several dealers.

Dr. Ettinghausen, in New York, attended a meeting of
the Advisory Committee, Asia House Gallery; and
examined objects at several dealers.

Dr. Ettinghausen, in Houston, Texas, visited the
Museum of Fine Arts and the Exhibition of Mythologi-
cal Animals, Demons, and Monsters at the University
of St. Thomas; and in Dallas, visited the Museum of
Fine Arts.

Dr. Stern attended, as chairman, the College Art
Association meetings held at the Los Angeles County
Museum of Art; and examined numerous objects at
several museums, private collections, and dealers.
278

1965
January 26-
February 2.

February 1-2.

February 72.

February 12-14.

February 16-20.

February 25-
March 2.

February 28-
March 24.

March 6.
March 20.

March 31-
April 70.

SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965

Dr. Pope, in Los Angeles, attended meetings of the
College Art Association, including a meeting of the
Board; and examined Chinese and Japanese objects
at the Los Angeles County Museum of Art. In San
Francisco, he examined Chinese paintings and bronzes
for the U.S. Collector of Customs; and at the M. H. de
Young Memorial Museum, numerous Chinese blue-
and-white porcelains in the Roy Leventritt Collection
and Chinese bronzes in the Avery Brundage Collection.

Dr. Ettinghausen, in Hudson, N.Y., examined objects in
a private collection; and in New York, visited the
Institute of Fine Arts, New York University.

Dr. Stern, in New York, examined numerous objects in
a private collection and at a dealer.

Dr. Pope, in New York, attended meetings of the joint
ACLS/SSRC Committee on Grants for Research on
Asia; attended an exhibition of Indian sculpture at the
Metropolitan Museum of Art; and examined objects
at several dealers.

Dr. Cahill, in Providence, R.I., attended the exhibition
of Oriental Arts at the Rhode Island School of Design
Museum; in New York, attended a meeting at New
York University to plan a summer seminar in Chinese
Art; and visited the “‘Relics of Ancient China in the
Singer Collection’? at Asia House and the exhibition
of Indian sculpture at the Metropolitan Museum of
Art; examined objects at several dealers; in Princeton,
N.J., attended a meeting of the Chinese Art Subcom-
mittee of the Committee on the Study of Chinese
Civilization at Princeton University; and examined
objects in private collections and at several dealers.

Dr. Stern, in Minneapolis and Mound, Minn., examined
numerous objects at the Minneapolis Institute of
Arts, and in a private collection.

Dr. Pope, in Oxford and London, England, examined
Far Eastern objects in several museums and private
collections.

Dr. Ettinghausen, in New York, examined objects at
several dealers.

Dr. Ettinghausen, in New York, met with Miss Marjorie
Kevorkian of the Kevorkian Foundation; and ex-
amined objects at several dealers.

Dr. Stern, in Philadelphia, attended meetings of the
Catalog Committee for the forthcoming Japanese
Exhibition; in New York, attended a committee
meeting of the Archives of American Art, and one for
April 2-6.

April 12-15.

April 16-17.

April 19-23.

April 23-24.

May 1-3.

May 7-14.

May 8-10.

May 14-15.

May 19-217.

May 20-25.

FREER GALLERY OF ART 279

the Restorer Training Program, Institute of Fine Arts
Conservation Center; also visited several exhibitions,
and examined numerous objects at museums and at a
dealer.

Dr. Ettinghausen, in New York, examined objects for a
dealer; and in Ann Arbor, Mich., examined objects at
the Art Museum, University of Michigan.

Dr. Pope, in Chicago, attended a meeting of the Ameri-
can Oriental Society, and examined objects at the Art
Institute and at a dealer; in Denver, Colo., examined
objects in the office of the U.S. Attorney.

Dr. Ettinghausen, in New York, examined objects at
several dealers.

Mr. Gettens, at Harbor Island, Kure Beach, N.C., did
research at the Sea Horse Institute (International
Nickel Company); in Richmond, Va., visited the W.J.
Barrow Research Laboratory for Paper at the Virginia
Historical Society, and at the Virginia Museum of
Fine Arts examined Chinese bronze ceremonial vessels.

Dr. Ettinghausen, in New York, examined objects at
several dealers.

Dr. Cahill, in Cambridge and Boston, attended a con-
ference on projects for the Committee on Studies of
Chinese Civilization; and examined objects at the
Fogg Art Museum and the Museum of Fine Arts,
including the Hobart Collection.

Dr. Ettinghausen, in New York, assisted in giving a
doctoral examination at Columbia University; and
examined objects in private collections and at dealers.

Dr. Cahill, in Kansas City, examined Chinese paintings
in the William Rockhill Nelson Gallery of Art, in-
cluding the Nii Wa Chai Collection.

Dr. Cahill, in New York, attended a meeting of the
Committee on Studies of Chinese Civilization; visited
the exhibition of Far Eastern art at the Metropolitan
Museum of Art; and examined objects in a private
collection and at several dealers.

Mrs. West and Mrs. Quail, in New York, attended
meetings of the Museum Sales Association, at the
Metropolitan Museum of Art, the Museum of the
City of New York, and the Museum of Modern Art.

Dr. Pope, in New York, attended a meeting of the
Advisory Council of Asia House Gallery, and examined
objects at several dealers; at Winterthur, Del.,
attended meetings of the Association of Art Museum
Directors.
280 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965

1965

May 21-22. Dr. Cahill, in New York, attended meetings of the
Advisory Council, Asia House Gallery; and examined
objects in a private collection and at several dealers.

Dr. Ettinghausen, in New York, attended a meeting

of the Advisory Council, Asia House Gallery; and
examined objects at a dealer.

May 24-26. Mr. Gettens, in Philadelphia, met with the Executive
Council of the IIC—AG; visited the Science Center for
Archaeology, University Museum; and examined
objects at the Philadelphia Museum of Art.

May 26-28. Mr. Mielke, in Philadelphia, attended meetings of the
American Association of Museums, and visited the
Philadelphia Museum of Art and the University
Museum.

June 2-4. Mr. Gettens, in Columbus, Ohio, attended the dedica-
tion of the new Chemical Abstracts Building, Ohio
State University; and in Oberlin, visited staff members
at Oberlin College.

June 10-20. Mr. T. Katsuki, in Boston, New Haven, and New York,
examined numerous Far Eastern objects at several
galleries and museums, and at dealers.

Members of the staff held honorary posts, received recognition, and
undertook additional duties outside the Gallery as follows:

Dr. Pore: Research Professor of Oriental Art, Department of the
History of Art, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor. Chairman,
Editorial Board of Ars Orientalis, University of Michigan. Chair-
man, Louise Wallace Hackney Scholarship Committee, American
Oriental Society. Member, Board of Management, Cosmos
Club, Washington, D.C. Member, Board of Directors, College
Art Association. Member, Association of Art Museum Directors.
Member, Board of Advisors of the Dumbarton Oaks Research
Library and Collection. Chairman, ACLS/SSRC Joint Com-
mittee for Grants for Research on Asia. Member, Advisory
Committee, Asia House Gallery, New York, N.Y.

Dr. STERN: Member, Art Committee, Cosmos Club, Washington,
D.C. Advisor, City of San Francisco, for selection, artistic
appraisal, and cataloging of Japanese and Korean objects in
the Avery Brundage Collection. Member, ad hoc Committee
for a planning program for the conservation of Far Eastern
artistic and historic works, Freer Gallery of Art and New York
University. Member, International Editorial Advisory Board,
Japanese Ukiyoe Society, Tokyo, Japan. Member, - Research
Committee, Smithsonian Institution. Chairman, Program Com-
FREER GALLERY OF ART 281

mittee, Far Eastern Section, College Art Association. Member,
Negotiations, Selection, and Cataloging Committees, America-
Canada Participating Museums for Memorial Exhibition
“Masterpieces of Japanese Art,” 1965-66.

Dr. ETTINGHAUSEN: Honorary member, German Archaeological In-

stitute, Berlin, Germany. ‘Trustee, American Research Center in
Egypt, New York. Adjunct Professor of Fine Arts, Institute of
Fine Arts, New York University. Research Professor of Islamic
Art, University of Michigan. Member of Executive Committee,
Trustee, and Chairman of the Accessions Committee, Textile
Museum of the District of Columbia. Member, Editorial
Board, Art Bulletin, College Art Association of America, New
York. Member, Consultative Committee, Ars Orientalis, Uni-
versity of Michigan. Governor, Washington Society of the
Archaeological Institute of America, Washington, D.C. Mem-
ber, National Committee, Iran Foundation, Inc., for the Ad-
vancement of Health and Education in Iran, N.Y. Member,
Board of Directors, American Iqbal Society, Washington, D.C.
Member, Board of Governors, Middle East Institute, Washington,
D.C. Member, Editorial Board, Kairos, Salzburg, Germany.
Foreign Member, Society of Iranian National Monuments,
Teheran, Iran. Member, Administrative Committee of the
International Society for Oriental Research, Istanbul, Turkey,
and Frankfurt, Germany. Member, Board of Directors, Iran-
America Society, Washington, D.C. Associate Member, Institut
d’Egypte, Cairo, Egypt. Member, Advisory Committee, Asia
House Gallery, New York. Member, Advisory Board, Fairfax
County Cultural Association, Inc.

Dr. Cantu: Adjunct Professor, Oriental Art, American University,

Washington. Trustee, Japan-America Society, Washington.
Member, Board of Directors, Sino-American Cultural Society,
Washington. Member, Advisory Council, Asia House Gallery,
New York. Chairman, Subcommittee on Chinese Art, Com-
mittee on Studies of Chinese Civilization, American Council
of Learned Societies.

. TRousDALE: Member, Oriental Languages Honor Society,

University of California, Berkeley. Member, American Oriental
Society. Member, Archaeological Institute of America. Mem-
ber, Iran-America Society.

Mr. GetTENs: Section Editor, I-History, Education and Documen-

tation, Chemical Abstracts. Member, Board of Consulting Fellows,
Conservation Center, Institute of Fine Arts, New York Univer-
sity. Assistant Editor, TJC Abstracts: Abstracts of the Technical
282

Mrs.

SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965

Literature of Archaeology and the Fine Arts, London, England.
Vice President, Council of the International Institute for Con-
servation of Historic and Artistic Works (IIC), London, England.
Member, Executive Committee, IIC, American Group. Mem-
ber, International Council of Museums (ICOM), Committee
on Museum Laboratories. Member, Advisory Board, Inter-
museum Conservation Association, Oberlin College. Member,
Art Committee, Cosmos Club, Washington, D.C. Member,
Standing Committee for Commercial Standard CS 98-62
(Artists’ Oil Paints), Commodity Standards Division, U.S.
Department of Commerce. Member, Committee to Advise on
the U.S. National Museum Conservation Laboratory.
FirzHucu: Editor, LIC Abstracts: Abstracts of the Technical Literature
of Archaeology and the Fine Arts, London, England. Member,
Board of Governors and Assistant Secretary, Washington Society
of the Archaeological Institute of America.

Mr. SucrurA: Member, ad hoc Committee for planning program for

conservation of Far Eastern artistic and historic works, Freer
Gallery of Art and New York University. Member, Kokuho
Shuri Soken, Senmei Kai (Japan).

PERSONNEL
1964
July 13. Miss Barbara Bernhard reported for duty under the
Intern Program and completed her internship
August 21.
July 24. Miss Laura Schneider resigned as_ secretary-sten-
ographer.
Miss Doreen Gee completed her research under a
University of California scholarship.
September 4. Miss Kumi Sugiura resigned as apprentice to the
Oriental picture mounter.
Robert Maeda completed his term as a Hackney
Scholar.
September 8. Miss Susan Campbell resigned as clerk-typist.
September 9. Mrs. Susan Redding reported for duty as clerk-typist.
September 14. Leslie Benji Nerio reported for duty as a Hackney
Scholar.
September 27. Ben B. Johnson started work on the restoration of

some of the Whistler paintings (contract worker)
and completed his work on June 25, 1965.
1964
October 9.

October 72.
October 79.

November 9.

November 75.
December 4.
December 7.

1965
February 7.

February 26.
March 7.

June 7.

Fune 16.

FREER GALLERY OF ART 283

Leslie Benji Nerio completed his term of duty as a
Hackney Scholar.

Mrs. Blanche A. Shuler resigned as secretary-sten-
ographer and reported for duty as library assistant
on October 12.

Miss Sarah M. Wilson reported for duty as secretary-
stenographer.

Miss Marianne G. Melton reportedfor duty as
secretary-stenographer.

David J. Heflin reported for duty (contract worker)
during the absence of Thomas Goetting, museum
technician (Art).

A. R. Kruik reported for volunteer duty as an observer
of Mrs. Sugiura’s work methods.

Mrs. Elisabeth W. FitzHugh resigned as assistant in
technical research (chemist, analytical).

Miss Daphne Campbell reported for duty to work on
the “Bronze Book”? manuscript (contract worker).

William T. Chase, III, reported for duty as assistant
in the technical laboratory (contract worker).

Mrs. Susan Redding resigned as clerk-typist.

Miss Katherine E. Jernberg reported for duty as
clerk-typist.

Miss Susan Lyles reported for duty under the Intern
Program.

Miss Priscilla Parsons reported for a 3-month term of
study under a grant from the New York University,
in the Near Eastern field.
CRS | PRA ROR EA aa
ELAS a aed ts aad ery fae She ae ce i tir PP ary i Cri Pha 3.10 2) Ok, adh

& es Ni ee shark hw sale dy PPO: iar ta aileADe ft
Poe Mieke AE AMT Te pinsthrs ene

AITO RIOTIN “85 pres ede oh Seon “any
firs peed shinies ? we Anes “it tin ode bts lq ae
\ enon: A tecoher aa

Sy ee tak oe (08 a Paine nine AOL Haden dns “
" te). ite nena DR
eis. yaihy sao Hoa bat O ieeeeabyedl ig ala
ER Te Ae vor Oe

(rade t3 Ahh eT Boh rcpt HPL SP a
iit ty soukel se Say prneute
7 paar ye Serhan dh
rye BND Wis Re WRAY 197 tintin’ wok bt Aiea Se ae
Pie OOH Sree cari e leaks

fi teste dis Doreinsy dow Pirets vy Manesede ei
OU OA Re Ln daira) heard dts

tie Oa Ha Gel betnger tek AF ecu lOC gT
(radteriv! Nt eOO) repitshtyt ir ok icin ale

fi ? a 4

statues | aerteid seh

& \
at 4 we ¢ b : a!

jtuntaikes ae ytubh tok sai fea nent?) ‘a cont
if encoun joe'naoD) wiotanode! Ieaiiidsst ‘olga
Jricqyahels as beibiah giibbald asm fot ie
ue tit: tak botoget pec A soheissA call
Hi: tise, Shama Belt cary dabeaalosloir « Lge
pin eel soba yee =) sans aoiyil coansnoentlVl: fy! Bs
Nagy tagmgorh © i
Select dicorn€ he nee Eoeasiesiehivelt oe
inci in asoY waldiaditrron wsrg, 8 zoe ‘basta
| | Mins praaialk; ee ar,
zy a st vend ts fh Mand ea <a "ane
Rlronibies di: Popa « BS kines PARROT rome yeh ge HEN ‘
| CMR, CART OREN SG eee
Rolo Mice nae hig hi

eee n str vai se
Baprtaie ier By Miele Satan, Cano benetmed
mn pringnitear 4.9} Miss. Susety Byndstinge se portad ea
risen Hei iLeai¢ line nei minute! mh

AW
sry
National Gallery of Art

National Gallery of Art

Joun WALKER, Director

ORGANIZATION

The statutory members of the Board of Trustees of the National Gallery
of Art are the Chief Justice of the United States, the Secretary of State,
the Secretary of the Treasury, and the Secretary of the Smithsonian
Institution, ex officio. On May 6, 1965, Paul Mellon was reelected a
general trustee of the National Gallery of Art to serve in that capacity
for the term expiring July 1, 1975. The four other general trustees
continuing in office during the fiscal year ended June 30, 1965, were
John Hay Whitney, John N. Irwin II, Dr. Franklin D. Murphy, and
Lessing J. Rosenwald. On May 6, 1965, Paul Mellon was reelected by
the Board of Trustees to serve as president of the Gallery, and John
Hay Whitney was reelected vice president.

The executive officers of the Gallery as of June 30, 1965, were as
follows:

Chief Justice of the United States, Earl Warren, chairman.
Paul Mellon, president.

John Hay Whitney, vice president.

Huntington Cairns, secretary-treasurer.

John Walker, director.

Ernest R. Feidler, administrator.

Huntington Cairns, general counsel.

Perry B. Cott, chief curator.

J. Carter Brown, assistant director.

The three standing committees of the Board, as constituted at the
annual meeting on May 6, 1965, were as follows:

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE

Chief Justice of the United States, Earl Warren, chairman.
Paul Mellon, vice chairman.
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, S. Dillon Ripley.
John Hay Whitney.
Franklin D. Murphy.

287
288 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965
FINANCE COMMITTEE

Secretary of the Treasury, Henry H. Fowler, chairman.
Paul Mellon.

Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, S. Dillon Ripley.
John Hay Whitney.

John N. Irwin II.

ACQUISITIONS COMMITTEE

Paul Mellon, chairman.
John Hay Whitney.
John N. Irwin II.
Lessing J. Rosenwald.
John Walker.

PERSONNEL

At the close of fiscal year 1965, full-time Government employees on
the permanent staff of the National Gallery of Art numbered 304.
The U.S. Civil Service regulations govern the appointment of employ-
ees paid from appropriated funds.

APPROPRIATIONS

For the fiscal year ended June 30, 1965, the Congress of the United
States, in the regular annual appropriation, and in a supplemental
appropriation required for pay increases, provided $2,227,000 to be
used for salaries and expenses in the operation and upkeep of the
National Gallery of Art, the protection and care of works of art acquired
by the Board of Trustees, and all administrative expenses incident
thereto, as authorized by the basic statute establishing the National |
Gallery of Art, that is, the Joint Resolution of Congress approved
March 24, 1937 (50 Stat. 51), U.S. Code, title 20, secs. 71-75.

The following obligations were incurred:

Personnel compensation and benefits $1, 966, 805. 00
All other items 260, 154. 56

Total obligations $2, 226, 959. 56
NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART 289
ATTENDANCE

There were 1,253,102 visitors to the Gallery during fiscal year 1965.
There was, therefore, an increase of 16,947 over fiscal year 1964. The
average daily attendance was 3,421.

ACCESSIONS

In all, 1,722 accessions were received by the Gallery as gifts, loans,
or deposits during the fiscal year. While this quantity was substan-
tially below the accessions in the preceding year, when the large and
important gift by Lessing J. Rosenwald of graphic-arts materials
swelled accessions to over 5,000, the gifts set forth below indicate
that rarely in the Gallery’s history have the accessions included so
many outstanding paintings.

GIFTS

From the bequest of Chester Dale, New York, N.Y., the Gallery
received 245 paintings, chiefly of the Impressionist School, including
major works by Cézanne, Corot, Degas, Gauguin, van Gogh, Manet,
Matisse, Monet, Picasso, and Toulouse-Lautrec. [n addition, the
following gifts or bequests were accepted by the Board of Trustees:

PAINTINGS
Donor Artist Title
Avalon Foundation, Heade Brazilian Seascape
New York, N.Y.
Do. Twachtman Winter Harmony
Col. and Mrs. Edgar W. West Dr. Samuel Boudé
Garbisch, New York, N.Y.
Do do Mrs. Samuel Boudé
Do Unknown Vase of Flowers
Do do Watermelon
Do Hicks The Cornell Farm
Do Field ‘*He Turned Their Waters
into Blood”
Do Chandler Captain Samuel Chandler
Do do Mrs. Samuel Chandler

789-427—66——30
290

Donor
Ernest Iselin, New York, N.Y.
Patrick T. Jackson, Jr.,
Cambridge, Mass.

National Gallery of Art,
Ailsa Mellon Bruce Fund

Do

Do

Do
Arthur Sachs, Cannes, France

James C. Stotlar, Bethesda,
Md.

Donor

Chester Dale, New York, N.Y.

Do

Do
Do
Do

Do
Do
National Gallery of Art,
Ailsa Mellon Bruce Fund
Do

Mrs. George Matthew Adams,

New York, N.Y.

Artist
Sargent
Trumbull

Sithium

Largilliére
Guardi

do
French School,
XV century
Wyant

SCULPTURE

Artist
Despiau
Gauguin

do
Houdon
Kisling
Modigliani
Renoir

Lehmbruck

Maillol

Grapuic ARTS

Whitney
(after
Legros)

Chester Dale, New York, N.Y. Various

Ella Fillmore Lillie, Danby,
Vt.

Mrs. John E. Lodge,
Washington, D.C.

John E. Thayer, Milton,
Mass.

Ukrainian Art Academy,
U.S.S.R.

Lillie

Various

Audubon

Various

SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965

Title
Mrs. Adrian Iselin
Patrick Tracy

The Assumption of the Virgin

Elizabeth Throckmorton

Carlo and Ubaldo Resisting
the Enchantments of
Armida’s Nymphs

Erminia and the Shepherds

A Knight of the Golden
Fleece

Peaceful Valley

Title
Maud Dale
‘“‘Pére Paillard” (Father
Lechery)
Pair of Wooden Shoes
Voltaire
Death Mask of Amedeo
Modigliani
Head of a Woman
Coco
Standing Woman

Venus

Portrait of a Man

21 prints and drawings
10 lithographs

12 prints

Salt Water Marsh Hen

7 contemporary Russian
prints
NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART 291
EXCHANGE OF Work OF ART

Portrait of Martin Luther, an engraving by Cranach, was exchanged for a superior
impression of the same work.

OTHER GIFTS

In the fiscal year 1965 gifts of money were made by the Charles
Ulrick and Josephine Bay Foundation, Avalon Foundation, Samuel H.
Kress Foundation, Old Dominion Foundation, Mrs. Cordelia S. May,
Calouste Gulbenkian Foundation, J. I. Foundation, Inc., Mr. Edwin
Binney III and the Lila Acheson Wallace Fund.

Mrs. Mellon Bruce contributed additional funds for the purchase of
works of art for the National Gallery of Art and for educational purposes
related to works of art.

WORK OF ART ON LOAN

Portrait of a Man in a Fur-lined Coat by Rembrandt was received on loan
from the Fuller Foundation, Boston, Mass.

WORKS OF ART ON LOAN RETURNED

The following works of art on loan were returned during the fiscal
year:

To Artist Title
Col. and Mrs. Edgar W. Phillips Philip Slade
Garbisch, New York, N.Y.
Jerome Hill, New York, N.Y. Delacroix The Arab Tax
Do do The Fanatics of Tangiers
Claiborne Pell, Washington, Bingham The Jolly Flatboatmen
Dic.
S. Dillon Ripley, Washington, Audubon Washington Sea Eagle
DIG:

PAINTINGS TRANSFERRED TO NATIONAL
PORTRAIT GALLERY

Thirty-five portraits were transferred to the National Portrait Gallery.
292 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965

WORKS OF ART LENT

The following loans were made during the fiscal year:

To Artist
Blair House, Washington, D.C. Stuart
Do do
Do do
do
Do Earl
Do Sully
Do Unknown
California Palace of the Quidor
Legion of Honor, San
Francisco, Calif.
Do Unknown
Musée du Petit-Palais, Paris, | Homer
France
Do Cooke .
Do Unknown
Do Bauman
Museum of Fine Arts, St. West
Petersburg, Fla.
Smithsonian Institution, Pine
Museum of History and
Technology, Armed Forces
History Hall
Do Polk
Smithsonian Institution, Jarvis
Museum of History and
Technology, Presidential
Reception Room
Do do
Do Healy
Do Peale
Do Sully
Munson-Williams-Proctor Audubon
Institute, Utica, N.Y.
Vancouver Art Gallery, Pseudo
Vancouver, B.C. Antonio
da Brescia
Do do
Do Master
IO.F.F.
Do Moderno

Title
Ann Barry
Mary Barry
A Gentleman of the Ashe
Family
Andrew Jackson
John Quincy Adams
Portrait of a Young Lady
The Return of Rip Van
Winkle

Columbia
Breezing Up

Salute to General Washing-

ton in New York Harbor
Burning of Charles ‘Town
U.S. Mail Boat
Self-Portrait

General William Smallwood

General Washington at
Princeton
Commodore John Rodgers

DeWitt Clinton
Daniel Webster
Robert Coleman
Major Thomas Biddle
Arctic Hare

Abundance and Satyr
Jason (or Apollo) and the
Dragon

Judgment of Paris

David and Goliath
NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART 293

To Artist Title
Virginia Museum of Fine Homer Right and Left
Arts, Richmond, Va.
The White House, Sully Andrew Jackson

Washington, D.C.
EXHIBITIONS

The following exhibitions were held at the National Gallery of Art
during the fiscal year 1965:

7000 Years of Iranian Art. Continued from the preceding fiscal year
through July 19, 1964.

Prints by Whistler from the National Gallery of Art Collection. Continued
from the preceding fiscal year through July 23, 1964.

Selected Renderings from the Index of American Design. July 2, 1964,
through October 1, 1964.

French 18th Century Color Prints from the Widener Collection. July 30, 1964,
through October 1, 1964.

Exhibition of Watercolors by Perkins Harnley from the Index of American
Design. August 12, 1964, through November 3, 1964.

15th and 16th Century German Prints from the National Gallery of Art Collection.
October 2, 1964, through December 6, 1964; January 11, 1965,
through February 11, 1965.

Drawings of the 15th and 16th Centuries from the Wallraf-Richartz Museum.
October 4, 1964, through November 1, 1964.

Blake’s Engravings of Dante’s Inferno and The Book of Fob from the W. G:
Russell Allen Collection. October 22, 1964, through January 10, 1965.

William Blake: Poet, Printer, Prophet. October 25, 1964, through No-
vember 22, 1964.

Prints by Alidorfer, Diirer, Lucas van Leyden, and Schongauer from the National
Gallery of Art Collection. October 26, 1964, through December 15,
1964; January 14, 1965, through April 22, 1965.

Piranesi Etchings of Prisons and Views of Rome from the National Gallery of
Art Collection. November 4, 1964, through April 18, 1965.
294 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965

Designs for the Grave of the Late President John F. Kennedy. November 17,
1964, through December 13, 1964.

1964 Christmas Card Subjects from the Graphic Arts Collection. December 7,
1964, through January 10, 1965.

The Watercolor Drawings of John White. January 31, 1965, through
February 22, 1965.

Landscape Prints by Rembrandt and Other Dutch Artists from the Rosenwald
Collection. February 12, 1965, through May 19, 1965.

Eyewitness to Space—sponsored by the National Aeronautics and Space
Administration. March 14, 1965, through May 23, 1965.

Rosenwald Miniatures and Widener French 18th Century Books. April 24,
1965, through May 2, 1965.

The Chester Dale Bequest. May 6, 1965, to continue into the next fiscal
year.

Graphic Arts from the Chester Dale Collection. May 6, 1965, to continue
into the next fiscal year.

Exhibition Illustrating Richard Bales’ Index of American Design Suite No. 4.
May, 20, 1965, to continue into the next fiscal year.

Exhibition of Rembrandt's Portrait of the Artist's Son Titus on loan from the
Norton Simon Foundation. May 26, 1965, to continue into the next
fiscal year.

Sketches by Constable from the Victoria and Albert Museum. June 6, 1965, to
continue into the next fiscal year.

White House Festival of the Arts Exhibition. June 18, 1965, to continue
into the next fiscal year.

Exhibitions of recent accessions: Tiberius and Agrippina by Rubens,
November 29, 1964, through December 20, 1964; A Knight of the
Golden Fleece, French School, XV Century, December 22, 1964,
through February 5, 1965; Portrait of a Man in a Fur-lined Coat by
Rembrandt, lent by The Fuller Foundation, from January 8, 1965;
The Cornell Farm by Edward Hicks, Captain Samuel Chandler and Mrs.
Samuel Chandler by Winthrop Chandler, February 6, 1965 through
February 14, 1965; Watson and the Shark by Copley, February 21,
NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART 295

1965, through April 4, 1965; Carlo and Ubaldo Resisting the Enchantments
of Armida’s Nymphs and Erminia and the Shepards by Francesco and Gian
Antonio Guardi, April 4,1965, through April 27, 1965; The Assumption
of the Virgin by Miguel Sithium, from April 18, 1965; Mrs. Adrian Iselin
by Sargent, Winter Harmony by Twachtman, and Brazilian Seascape by
Heade, May 16, 1965, through June 8, 1965.

TRAVELING EXHIBITIONS

Special exhibitions of graphic arts from the National Gallery of Art
collections were circulated during the fiscal year to 61 museums,
universities, schools, and art centers in the United States and abroad.

Index of American Design. Thirty-four traveling exhibitions of material
from the Index were circulated to 17 States, the District of Columbia,
and one foreign country, for 62 showings.

CURATORIAL ACTIVITIES

Under the direction of chief curator Perry B. Cott, the curatorial
department accessioned 324 gifts to the Gallery during the fiscal year
1965. Advice was given with respect to 1,740 works of art brought to
the Gallery for expert opinion, and 28 visits to collections were made
by members of the staff in connection with other gifts. About 6,189
inquiries, many of them requiring research, were answered verbally
and by letter.

Assistant chief curator William P. Campbell served as a member of
the Special Fine Arts Committee of the Department of State.

Curator of painting H. Lester Cooke continued as consultant to
NASA with duties of organizing and supervising commissions to
artists for paintings of themes relating to the Space Program. He also
acted as judge for the Tri-State Exhibition, Evansville, Ind., and ‘“The
Plains,”’ a local art exhibit, during the fiscal year.

The Richter Archives received and cataloged 485 photographs on
exchange from museums here and abroad; 1,328 photographs were
purchased, and about 500 reproductions have been added to the Rich-
ter Archives. Five hundred photographs have been added to the
Inconographic Index.

RESTORATION

Francis Sullivan, resident restorer of the Gallery, made regular and
systematic inspection of all works of art in the Gallery and on loan to
296 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965

Government buildings in Washington and periodically removed dust
and bloom as required. He relined, cleaned, and restored 10 paintings
and gave special treatment to 42. Thirty-seven paintings were x-rayed
as an aid in research. He continued experiments with synthetic
materials as suggested by the National Gallery of Art Fellowship at
the Mellon Institute of Industrial Research, Pittsburgh, Pa. Tech-
nical advice was given in response to 252 telephone inquiries. Special
treatment was given to works of art belonging to Government agencies,
including the U.S. Capitol, Treasury Department, the White House,
U.S. Coast Guard Academy, and the Freer Gallery of Art.

PUBLICATIONS

The volume by Gallery director John Walker entitled National
Gallery of Art, Washington, D.C., published by Harry N. Abrams, Inc.
in 1963, was translated and published in Germany, France, and
Spain in the respective languages. It was also published in London,
United Kingdom, by Thames & Hudson.

All the curatorial staff cooperated in the preparation of the three-
volume definitive catalog covering the entire Chester Dale Collection—
Eighteenth and Nineteenth Century Paintings and Sculpture of the French
School, Twentieth Century Paintings and Sculpture of the French School, and
Paintings Other Than French.

The senior fellow of the National Gallery of Art Research Project
at the Mellon Institute in Pittsburgh, Pa., Dr. Robert L. Feller,
published several articles related to the important scientific research
which he has been conducting. They are Control of the Deteriorating
Effects of Light on Museum Olyects in Museum, September 1964 issue;
Whats in a Name: Dammar in The Crucible, October 1964 issue; The
Use of an Electrically-Conducting Glass Panel as a Heating Surface (with
Jeanne L. Kostich) in Bulletin American Group—IIC, October 1964
issue; and Critical Pigment Volume Concentration and Chalking in Paints
(with J. J. Matous) in Bulletin American Group—IIC, October 1964
issue.

H. Lester Cooke, curator of painting, wrote an article for Art in
America, April 1965 issue, entitled ‘A Plunger in the Market: Chester
Dale and His Collection.’’

Richard Field, assistant curator of graphic arts, prepared the catalog
for the Pennsylvania State University exhibition Selected 15th Century
Prints from the Lessing F. Rosenwald Collection, National Gallery of Art.

Michael Mahoney, museum curator, wrote an article for the Min-
neapolis Institute of Arts Bulletin, September 1964 issue, entitled “Salvator
Rosa’s Saint Humphrey.”
NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART 297

In April 1965 the Gazette des Beaux-Arts published an article entitled
“Some Later Works of Piero di Cosimo,” by Everett P. Fahy, Jr.,
National Gallery of Art Finley fellow.

PUBLICATIONS FUND

In fiscal year 1965 the Publications Fund placed on sale five new
publications. These were: the Pantheon Story of Art for Young People,
illustrated almost exclusively from the National Gallery of Art Col-
lection; two books illustrated from subjects in the Rosenwald Col-
lection—The Bite of the Print and George Rouault’s Miserere; American
Crafts and Folk Arts, based on the Index of American Design; and
101 Masterpieces of American Primitive Painting from the Collection of Edgar
William and Bernice Chrysler Garbisch. In addition, three new catalogs
of the Chester Dale Collection were published; these were made
available to the public with the opening of the Chester Dale Bequest
exhibition. Thirty-nine new 11- by 14-inch color reproductions
were published which brought the total subjects on sale to 277.
Twenty-eight new postcard subjects were added, which results in 224
subjects now being available to the public. Four new large repro-
ductions were published with Gallery assistance: Poussin—The
Assumption of the Virgin; Sassetta and Assistant—Saint Anthony Leaving
His Monastery; Turner—The Dogana and San Giorgio Maggiore; and
Monet—Rouen Cathedral, West Fagade, Sunlight.

EDUCATIONAL PROGRAM

The program of the educational department was carried out under
the direction of Raymond S. Stites, curator in charge of education,
and his staff. Lectures, conducted tours, and special talks were given
on the works of art in the Gallery’s collections.

Attendance for the general tours was 18,905—an increase of 1,500
over last year. Attendance for all regularly scheduled general tours,
tours of the week, and picture-of-the-week talks amounted to 36,843.

In a new series, the Radio Picture of the Week, 22 discussions of
individual paintings in the Gallery’s collections were prepared by the
educational department and broadcast during the intermissions of
the Gallery’s Sunday evening concerts each week from October 4
through February 28. A listener was able to subscribe on a monthly
basis and follow the discussions with a color reproduction before him.
Subscriptions so entered numbered 1,245. From replies to a question-
naire, it is estimated that many subscriptions were utilized by complete
298 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965

families or assigned to school classes. On the basis of radio audience
ratings, it is estimated that the total number of listeners to the series
was approximately 400,000.

Special tours, lectures, and conferences (a total of 467) were arranged
to serve 16,310 persons. These special appointments (which increased
by seven over 1964) were made for Government agency groups, the
Foreign Service Institute, the Foreign Students Council, the Armed
Forces, club and study groups, religious organizations, conventions,
museum officials, hospital representatives, and school students and
faculty members from various parts of the country.

The program of training volunteer docents continued, and special
instruction was given to 126 ladies from the Junior League of Wash-
ington and the American Association of University Women. By
arrangement with the public, private, and parochial schools of the
District of Columbia and of the surrounding counties in Maryland
and Virginia, these two organizations conducted tours for 2,654 classes
from the Metropolitan area of Washington. The 75,934 children in
these classes represented an increase of 7,098 over last year. These
volunteer docents also guided 794 Safety Patrol girls from Atlanta,
Ga., on tours of the Gallery.

Forty-four lectures were given on Sunday afternoons in the audi-
torium. Of these, 26 were delivered by guest lecturers, 8 by members
of the staff, and 5 were full-length film presentations. The distin-
guished Sir Isaiah Berlin delivered the 14th annual series of the A. W.
Mellon Lectures in the Fine Arts on six consecutive Sundays beginning
March 14, 1965, on the general subject ‘‘Sources of Romantic Art.”

Attendance at the above-mentioned Sunday afternoon programs in
the auditorium totaled 12,569. This was lower in fiscal year 1965
than in 1964 inasmuch as the number of Sunday programs dropped
from 52 to 44. However, there was a 10.4 percent increase in average
attendance per Sunday.

The slide library of the Educational Department has a total of
48,951 slides in its permanent and lending collections. During the
year, 1,327 slides were added to the collections. Altogether, 317 per-
sons borrowed a total of 8,603 slides, and it is estimated that these
slides were seen by 19,671 viewers.

Members of the staff participated in outside activities which included
lecturing at various schools, clubs, and Government agencies.
Two members of the staff taught evening courses at local institutions.
Staff members prepared and recorded scripts for the Lectour and
radio talks, and prepared material for the school-tour program and
picture-of-the-week texts which are sold with reproductions of the
picture.
NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART 299

The project undertaken two years ago in connection with the “‘Widen-
ing Horizons” program, designed by various Government agencies to
introduce high school students to career opportunities offered in Wash-
ington, was continued. Mr. Stites gave six briefing lectures and six
tours to the volunteers conducting this program. These tours and
lectures were attended by 1,570 persons—an increase of 755 over the
previous year.

A printed calendar of the programs and events of the Gallery was
prepared and distributed to a mailing list of an average of approxi-
mately 7,500 names.

EXTENSION SERVICES

The office of extension services, under the direction of Grose Evans,
circulated to the public traveling exhibitions, films, slide lectures with
texts, film strips, and other educational materials.

Traveling exhibits are lent free of charge except for shipping expenses.
The total number of exhibits in circulation was 104. These were cir-
culated in 844 bookings, an increase of 445 over the preceding year’s
total of 399.

Twenty-eight prints of two films on paintings in the National Gallery
of Art were circulated in 316 bookings, an increase of 145 over last year.

A total of 2,150 slide lecture sets was circulated in 5,717 bookings, an
increase of 2,282 over the previous year.

Based on the conservative average audience estimates per booking
used for the past four years, the audience served by the traveling
exhibitions circulated by the Gallery was approximately 422,000; for
films the estimated audience was 94,800; and for slide lectures and
film strips, the audience was an estimated 343,020.

In addition, 64 exhibits were circulated by three outside groups,
a national church organization, the New York State school system,
and the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service. These
exhibits were seen by an estimated 111,243 viewers.

It is estimated, therefore, that the extension services reached approx-
imately 971,063 people during fiscal year 1965 as against 549,524 in
fiscal year 1964.

Mr. Evans prepared texts for new slide lectures and traveling ex-
hibitions, made recordings of the texts for three slide lectures, and
supervised the translation into French and recording of a lecture
that will be circulated for the use of French language teachers. Five
new subjects were added to the slide lectures and seven new subjects
to the traveling exhibitions. Mr. Evans attended conferences to
300 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965

demonstrate the extension services and to keep abreast of new develop-
ments in the audiovisual field.

LIBRARY

During the year the library, under the supervision of Ruth E.
Carlson, accessioned 5,919 publications obtained by gift, exchange,
or purchase. A total of 2,313 photographs, acquired by exchange or
purchase with private funds, was added to the photographic archives.

During the year 1,895 publications were cataloged and classified;
6,686 cards were filed in the main catalog and the shelf-list. Library
of Congress cards were used for 574 titles; original cataloging was
done for 419 titles. Periodicals recorded were 3,129, periodicals
circulated were 10,591, and 3,725 books were charged to the staff.
There were 5,852 books shelved in regular routine.

During the past fiscal year the library borrowed 1,242 books and
received 6 photographic copies on the interlibrary loan program.

The exchange program was continued and the library distributed
298 National Gallery of Art publications, and received 790 catalogs
under this program.

The library is a depository for black-and-white photographs of works
of art in the Gallery’s collections. These are maintained for use in
research by the staff, for exchange with other institutions, for repro-
duction in approved publications, and for sale to the public. Approx-
imately 9,111 photographs were added to the stock in the library
during the year, and 1,504 orders for 6,663 photographs were filled.
There were 425 permits for reproduction of 1,003 subjects processed
in the library.

INDEX OF AMERICAN DESIGN

Under the supervision of Grose Evans, the Index of American
Design circulated, in addition to the traveling exhibitions referred to
above (page 295), 133 sets of Index material color slides (6,536)
throughout the United States, and 254 photographs of Index subjects
were used for exhibits, study, and publication. The file of photographs
was increased by 44 negatives and 84 prints. Fourteen permits to
reproduce 114 subjects from the Index were issued. Approximately
271 visitors studied the Index material for research purposes and to
collect material for publication and design. Special exhibitions were
arranged of Index material, including one for the USIA for circulation
overseas.
NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART 301

The curator of the Index held special conferences with a number of
persons and lectured to several groups about the Index. He also
attended the Alexandria Antiques Forum.

MAINTENANCE OF THE BUILDING AND GROUNDS

The Gallery building, mechanical equipment, and grounds have been
maintained throughout the year at the established standards.

The renovation of the skylight on the west wing of the building has
been completed, and considerable progress has been made on the east
wing. When completed, this renovating is expected to give the Gallery
building a completely watertight skylight for the first time in its history.

Six new gallery rooms were completed for the exhibition of the
Chester Dale Collection of paintings.

The Gallery greenhouse continued to produce flowering and foliage
plants in quantities sufficient for all decorative needs on holidays, for
special openings, and for day-to-day requirements of the Garden Courts.

Contracts were entered into for the installation of special security
devices for the protection of the cases containing Renaissance jewelry
and other art objects in Gallery G—-2. This is in the nature of a pilot-
plant installation which, if it fulfills its promise, will be extended to
other areas.

LECTOUR

During the fiscal year 1965 Lectour, the Gallery’s electronic guide
system, was used by 58,121 visitors.

MUSIC PROGRAM

Forty Sunday evening concerts were given during the fiscal year in
the East Garden Court. Thirty-three of the concerts were sponsored
by funds bequeathed to the Gallery by William Nelson Cromwell.
The 22d American Music Festival of seven concerts was sponsored by
the Guibenkian Foundation, Inc. The National Gallery Orchestra,
conducted by Richard Bales, played nine concerts at the Gallery during
the season. T'wo of these orchestra concerts were made possible in part
by a grant from the Music Performance Trust Fund of the American
Recording Industry.

The National Gallery of Art strings, conducted by Mr. Bales, fur-
nished music during four of the Gallery’s openings. The orchestra
program on October 25, 1964, was played in honor of United Nations
302 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965

Day, and the concert on January 17 featured Mr. Bales’s ““The Repub-
lic”? and was played in honor of the inauguration of the President and
Vice President of the United States.

Seven Sunday evenings, April 25 through June 6, were devoted to the
Gallery’s 22d American Music Festival. All concerts were broadcast
in their entirety by WGMS-AM and FM. Washington music critics
continued their regular coverage of the concerts. During the inter-
mission periods of the Sunday evening broadcasts, members of the
educational staff spoke on art matters, and Mr. Bales discussed the
musical programs. Mr. Bales appeared as guest conductor at various
places throughout the country and taught a class in composition. The
Gallery orchestra played a number of concerts at schools and churches
in nearby towns and cities.

Two hour-long television programs of the National Gallery of Art
orchestra with Mr. Bales conducting were taped by WITOP-TYV, and
these, together with two previous programs which were repeated, were
telecast during the winter and spring.

Mr. Bales completed and performed two new works, one of which
was commissioned by the Kindler Foundation of Washington. He also
participated in the Civil War Centennial celebration and received an
award for the National Gallery of Art. The Gallery orchestra and Mr.
Bales also received a certificate of award from the American Association
of University Women for an outstanding cultural and educational
contribution to the community through the television programs. This
is the third year that the Gallery has been so honored.

OTHER ACTIVITIES

J. Carter Brown, assistant director, served in an advisory capacity to
the White House in the organization and installation of the art in the
White House Festival of the Arts, June 14, 1965. He was assisted by
H. Lester Cooke, curator of painting, and other members of the Gallery
staff. At the request of the President, the National Gallery of Art
provided lunch for the 200 guests of the White House Festival of the
Arts.

Also at the request of the White House, the Gallery was opened
especially for the National Conference of the Arts Councils of America,
June 18, 1965. The delegates and guests of the International Pub-
lishers Association spent an evening at the Gallery on June 4, 1965,
during their convention.

The Gallery provided facilities for the ceremony held by the Post
Office Department on December 2, 1964, in honor of the first-day issue
of a stamp dedicated to the Fine Arts.
NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART 303

In response to requests, 41,766 copies of “‘An Invitation to the Gal-
lery” and 2,100 information booklets were sent to Senators, Repre-
sentatives, and various organizations for distribution.

Henry Beville, head of the photographic laboratory, and his assistants
processed 62,378 items including negatives, prints, slides, color trans-
parencies, and color separations.

A total of 196 permits to copy works of art in the National Gallery
of Art and 92 permits to photograph were issued during the fiscal year.

During the 1965 inaugural ceremonies, the Trustees were pleased to
make the Gallery available for the Reception of Distinguished Ladies
on January 18, 1965. Over 6,500 invited guests were received in the
two Garden Courts and viewed the collections. Both the First Lady,
Mrs. Johnson, and the wife of the Vice President, Mrs. Humphrey,
assisted in the receiving lines.

AUDIT OF PRIVATE FUNDS OF THE GALLERY

An audit of the private funds of the Gallery will be made for the
fiscal year ended June 30, 1965, by Price Waterhouse & Co., public
accountants. A report of the audit will be forwarded to the Gallery.
ee (eta tO) See. ARMOR | |

thee, aid oh roltasayek A? Jowsinea dO RE ti
isis aronsrind:as \tse.onows eteblood: te
ccevient & osvditetbet, ew fessor
atistnine Spikes seroasodal oinqprgorosia sada
cared toloy: akon i saat sahara sible
e , )cl ertois
potas ieealeales silk oa tek is AMIOW WOD OF SHE
orien bsogth alt gavtiub boleh ono aga voterg.ohm ore
od bortalen biawoReteis Tools perigee) beg 208
esti bocaipenisich, lo dobepssdh ose ok oka i
oiit- at hovisoapasoive: aleoug doaieak OD8La eS Gag,
Shad jel ont itctl.2enisooliboed hovern bas
sarong wii tieohinen) sot¥  sdld Toya oct £

Pa ie {37 Ee. Bh

btu 47) ped <i
(ADELA. Sut: 40 Pavatct ATAVING
a, Rey

edt ots sEyenet mp His ee cemstieg) ie au ebstiiha
siiduq, 00 2 dauodipW poll, eel, haet, per
Mobs ED ene te Pee wrk ath Hinstibus . ‘Ao tae

cn Sree oe

‘ .
Kee y Hie vi Waele ee Raat as Telia
eae ae ae UheheAr cited) alee Fars Ldn
\

“ree Beaten anode epee ie eed peed cr ea
pute 1s: eri Bink’
sits tive oF -aa. try uae We nat osiigeatlll

} ;
ee a ahi ae Eee e y AB, # B Ag CREO a Nk L. a

iw rs Mii Dre ree Ae aera wii 4 ‘
e h ie, ( a ie oN
Aine OC Che Wee HE tbe TA ete dee ‘ee j |

wipe JURY Goan te IN tte Ce er nes ee a athe ;
see RA ER Flee hae alias anne veda! eid aa i
LAR: PAE eM rie Aerts ah le” ag iting Pa ee
Car tine CPT Ue eee
'f We 43 aie yi fae’ 2 Tai, Patahncy, tise a ots
Comes Tinsanta bent cis RNabteatimmt ae ist ie
By Dies clench a na ihe The, Axi.
Senoty gS

Girl with a Hoop by Auguste Renoir (1841-1919). Canvas 49% inches X
30% inches. Chester Dale Collection, 1962. National Gallery of Art.
Canvas 8%
inches X 6! inches. Ailsa Mellon Bruce Fund. National Gallery of Art.

Mademoiselle Malo by Edgar Degas (1834-1917). Canvas 31% inches X 2
inches. Chester Dale Collection. National Gallery of Art.

A Knight of the Golden Fleece. Flemish School, 15th century, circa 1495. 2634

SS

* 21% inches. Gift of Arthur Sachs. National Gallery of Art.
ie

A Corner of the Moulin de la Galette by Henri de Toulouse-Lautrec. 3914 X 35%
inches. Chester Dale Collection. National Gallery of Art.
Patrick Tracy by John Trumbull (American, 1756-1843). Canvas
91% X 52% inches. Gift of Patrick T. Jackson, Jr., 1964. National
Gallery of Art.
ne . “ni

Carlo and Ubaldo Resisting the Enchantments of Armida’s Nymphs by Gian Antonio
(1699-1760) and Francesco Guardi (1712-1793). Canvas 98% xX 181
inches. Ailsa Mellon Bruce Fund. National Gallery of Art.
<—

Still Life by Paul Cézanne (French, 1839-1906). Canvas 26 X 32% inches.
Chester Dale Collection, 1962. National Gallery of Art.
Canal Zone Biological Area

789—427—66——32
Canal Zone Biological Area
Martin H. Moyninan, Director

The Canal Zone Biological Area, a bureau of the Smithsonian Insti-
tution, is responsible for maintaining Barro Colorado Island in Gatun
Lake, Canal Zone, as a biological preserve. The island is approxi-
mately 3,600 acresin area. Itis almost completely covered by “‘tropical
monsoon forest’? (see tabulations on the annual rainfall below) and
contains a rich fauna. One of the few places in the American tropics
close to large centers of human population, yet largely unaffected by
recent human activities, it is particularly suitable and convenient for
research on many aspects of tropical biology and the tropical environ-
ment.

The Canal Zone Biological Area also has authority to use a large
tract of land on the adjacent mainland near Gamboa, Canal Zone.
This mainland territory is covered by various types of second-growth
vegetation and patches of forest which are more humid than the
forest on Barro Colorado Island.

The bureau maintains a laboratory on Barro Colorado Island, with
attached library and living quarters, available for use by scientists and
students from all over the world.

The bureau’s scientific staff conducts research on several groups of
animals and plants on Barro Colorado itself, in adjacent regions of the
Canal Zone and the Republic of Panama, and in other parts of
Central and South America.

RESEARCH ACTIVITIES

One hundred and nine scientists and students, representing 14
nations, worked on Barro Colorado Island for at least several days,
and used research facilities on the mainland. This represents a marked
increase over previous years. These researches dealt with a wide
range of disciplines. Fields receiving particular attention were behav-
ioral studies of insects, fishes, amphibians, birds, and mammals; sys-
tematics of insects and arachnids; communication systems of moths,
birds, and primates; and the ecology of species diversity in vertebrates
and higher plants. The General Electric Corporation, on behalf of
the U.S. Army, conducted extensive investigations of the acoustical
properties of the island forest.

307
308 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965

Dr. Austin Stanley Rand, a herpetologist, was added to the staff
last year, bringing the total of senior staff scientists to four.

Dr. Robert L. Dressler continued his studies of orchids and orchid
pollination, supported by the National Science Foundation. In con-
nection with this project, he made brief trips to Brazil, Peru, several
U.S. museums, and a longer trip to Costa Rica.

Dr. Neal G. Smith continued his field studies on the evolution and
genetics of egg-mimicry in parasitic cuckoos, the behavior of oropen-
dolas, and initiated an experimental study of avian species diversity
in tropical grasslands. He visited museums in Washington, New York,
Ithaca, and Boston.

Dr. Rand attended the Lizard Ecology Symposium in Kansas City,
Mo., and the meeting of the American Association of Ichthyologists
and Herpetologists in Lawrence, Kan. He also visited the Chicago
Natural History Museum, Harvard University, and the University of
Pennsylvania for consultation on his continuing research on the evolu-
tion of the West Indian Anoles, and on concepts and techniques of
bioacoustics.

Dr. Martin H. Moynihan continued research on the communication
systems and social behavior of New World primates and various groups
of passerine birds. A study of geographic variation in social behavior
among Andean birds is being supported by a grant from the National
Science Foundation. In connection with this work, Dr. Moynihan
made several field trips to Colombia and Venezuela, and visited
laboratories in London, Oxford, Cambridge, Paris, and New Orleans.
He also delivered a paper in the symposium on social interactions
among primates at the American Association for the Advancement
of Science meeting in Montreal.

The following papers by staff members of the Canal Zone Biological
Area appeared in various publications:

DressteR, R. L. Eneyclia trachycarpa refound. American Orchid Soc.
Bull., vol. 33, pp. 587-588. 1964.

Nomenclatural notes on the Orchidaceae II. Taxon 13,
pp. 246-249. 1964.

Moyniuan, M. Some behavior patterns of platyrrhine monkeys I.
The Night Monkey (Aotus trivirgatus). Smithsonian Misc. Coll.,
vol. 146(5), pp. 1-84. 1964.

Ranp, A. S. An observation on Dracaena guyanensis foraging under
water. Herpetologica, vol. 20, p. 207. 1964. :

Ecological distribution in anoline lizards of Puerto Rico.

Ecology, vol. 45, pp. 745-752. 1964.

Inverse relation between temperature and shyness in the

lizard Anolis lineatopus. Ecology, vol. 45, pp. 863-864, 1964.

CANAL ZONE BIOLOGICAL AREA 309

On the frequency and extent of naturally occurring foot
injuries in Tropodurus torquatus (Sauria: Iguanidae). Papeis Avul-
sos do Departamento de Zoologia, Sao Paulo, Brazil, vol. 17,
pp. 225-228. 1965.

BUILDINGS AND EQUIPMENT

An electrical cable system from the mainland to Barro Colorado
Island was installed, providing the island with well-regulated 60-cycle,
120-volt single-phase and 220-volt single- and three-phase power.
Electrical power capacity was increased by a factor of 5, enabling the
use of more sensitive instruments than was possible previously when
erratic generators provided the electricity. The internal electrical
wiring system also was revised to provide a larger margin for future
power requirements.

The laboratory building was extensively remodeled, permitting more
efficient use of available space. A soundproof room has been installed
to facilitate acoustical investigations.

Radio transmitters for communication between Barro Colorado and
the mainland were installed and are available for use at any time of
the day or night in case of emergencies.

The island’s extensive trail system was cleared and trail markers
replaced.

Expansion of the library continued, and the bureau now has more
than 4,700 volumes and receives 84 periodicals. In all probability,
this is the largest and best general biological library in the American
tropics. It is frequently used by members of other scientific and educa-
tional organizations in the Canal Zone and the Republic of Panama,
as well as by the scientists and students conducting research on Barro
Colorado itself.

New animal cages were constructed, and many of the older cages
were repaired.

Normal maintenance activities were carried on as usual. The
launches required extensive repairs as they age rapidly. Living
quarters were repaired and modified.

FINANCES

- In addition to $179,640 appropriated to the Smithsonian Institution
by Congress for the regular operations of the Canal Zone Biological
Area, trust funds for the maintenance of the island and its living facil-
ities are obtained by collections from visitors and scientists, table
subscriptions, and donations.
310 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965

The following institutions continued their support of the laboratory
through the payment of table subscriptions: Eastman Kodak Co.,
New York Zoological Society, and the Smithsonian Institution.
Donations also are gratefully acknowledged from Dr. Eugene Eisen-
mann, C. M. Goethe, and E. F. Morris.

PLANS

It is anticipated that limited facilities on both sides of the isthmus
will soon be available for marine research. Dr. Ira Rubinoff, a marine
biologist, will join the staff next year.

Five research assistantships were made available this year, and the
following predoctoral students were chosen:

Michael Robinson, Oxford University, will study the behavior of
leaf and stick mimicking insects. Nicholas Smythe, University of
Maryland, is interested in the behavior and ecology of agoutis and
pacas. Eugene Morton will investigate the effects of physical factors
in the environment on the kinds and forms of vocalizations given by
various animals. Martin Naumann, University of Kansas, will study
neotropical social wasps. John Oppenheimer, University of Illinois,
will initiate a long-term study of the social organization of the
White-Faced Monkey (Cebus capucinus).

A program has been established with the Organization of American
States providing support for scientists and students, especially Latin
Americans who do not have access to many other sources of support.
Applications are now being reviewed by the Organization of American
States.

It is hoped to continue the expansion of the scientific staff and the
research activities of the bureau, and to attract larger numbers of visit-
ing scientists and students.

ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

The Canal Zone Biological Area can operate only with the excellent
cooperation of the Canal Zone Government and the Panama Canal
Company. Thanks are due especially to the Customs and Immigration
officials; the Police Division; the Division of Sanitation; and the Elec-
tronics Section of the Electrical Division. Also deeply appreciated
are the advice and assistance provided by the Gorgas Memorial Lab-
oratory, the Inter-American Geodetic Survey, the Division of Veteri-
nary Medicine, Dr. W. John Smith of Harvard University, and R. A.
Botzenmayer, chief engineer, Southern Command Network.
CANAL ZONE BIOLOGICAL AREA 311

ANNUAL RAINFALL, BARRO COLORADO ISLAND, CANAL ZONE,

1925-64

Total Station Total Station
Year inches average Year inches average
1925 104. 37 1945 120. 42 109. 84
1926 118. 22 13556 1946 87. 38 108. 81
1927 116. 36 114. 68 1947 77. 92, 107. 49
1928 101. 52 114.35 1948 83.16 106. 43
1929 87. 84 106. 56 1949 114. 86 106. 76
1930 7.37 101. 51 1950 114. 51 107. 07
1931 123. 30 104. 69 EO5t 12572, 107. 28
1932 113. 52 105. 76 1952 97. 68 106. 94
1933 101. 73 105. 32 1953 104. 97 106. 87
1934 122. 42 107. 04 1954 105. 68 106. 82
1935 143. 42 110.35 £955 114. 42 107. 09
1936 93. 88 108. 98 1956 114.05 107. 30
1937 124. 13 110.12 1957 97.97 106. 98
1938 117.09 110. 62 1958 100. 20 106. 70
1959 115. 47 110. 94 1959 94. 88 106. 48
1940 86. 51 109. 43 1960 140. 07 107. 41
1941 91.82 108. 41 1961 100. 21 106.95
1942 111.10 108. 55 1962 100. 52 107. 07
1943 120. 29 109. 20 1963 108. 94 107. 10
1944 111. 96 109. 30 1964 113.25 107. 28

COMPARISON OF 1963 AND 1964 RAINFALL, BARRO COLORADO

ISLAND

[In inches]
Accumu-

Total 1964 lated

a TE Years of excess or or excess
Month 1963 1964 average record deficiency deficiency
January 7.94 a2. 2. 24 39 —2.02 —2.02
February 3.14 .25 135 39 —1.08 —3.10
March 1.65 ail ia20 39 —.99 —4.09
April 6. 38 4.56 3), 55) 40 +1.01 — 3.08
May 9.08 15.82 11.02 40 +4. 80 +1.72
June BAG) 9s 25 10. 91 40 +8. 34 +10. 06
July 125 CS lee 4. ils 72 40 +5.71 +15.77
August 18.87 8. 56 12. 50 40 — 3.94 +11. 83
September 8/06) 9 11e41 10. 32 40 +1.09 +12.92
October HOU WES BY 13.97 40 +2.90 +15. 82
November 21.60 16.04 17.90 40 —1. 86 +13. 96
December 3. 24 2. 62 10. 61 40 —7.99 +5. 97
Year 108.94 113.25 107.28 +5. 97
Dry season 19.11 5. 24 8. 32 —3. 08

Wet season 89.83 108.01 98. 96 +9.05
y 4 eth POSER TOL SAROS Lee
ti Fivestae us 7 8 wv ;
[4 ‘
{Hey ER WATS UPA EU ERAS) (ee et
_ : bia . ’ oi | ‘y é
Ponta © apa Pellghy

totes) 5) Pa f)
parse hatte oT
nye wits By Se Tah
Phy A) Eh

. ne 02 She 9 ge eit
‘} Cy? Re ht
y one me at a
' ot as a oa f rs
¢ ‘ I Cpe wor
4 ' Gade °3 ht
t ! - I . J ‘ -
aS rev oe peat a
O-wéeie + ony oa as
4 \.Gb) | pre Et a3 aa!
OGL 1 Ged regs eet) Se
OAT hb eagt eh PT,
~~ ry
; ’ at) BET a2? ‘ aH °
BO at bees Cpe Fay EP
° hy ee
(Y). /O04 yh ARG an ab Sect s
Pr AS Ms CARE lee ORES.

ba Sos TOO Sh Nant day oy
At.o0t 1S OT ed am

0 UY | ce Oar oef )- eeseuN
OF Fat ee Bit Ped ma al $ 4
eee! A Paar Fe SER

CRA ROLLIE EAA LLATiE NUE eet vA, rs 70%
/ CPT ABE bie ek),

(datos as} a: tase lay

SRD BS = a r : i
sun Ne wii PL ee Kbyte -
Suites senate “0 syrrds EAN Sh
ke : .

C0: ..< ie OF, PSS oy SO ahs Le
Of e- bOrkes |. Re oe ee
he int hy i

gOe ra)

ie oa
oie

;
oe cnr | ue foe eat ae Oe
i

itt OR + Me SO .tt Saal oe

gO 00) HO Sor (ie hod) ZR AP
; | | ay

Wee eae AOR OH ea

ER PL ys ae ae Oh Tae | aa eat

28 SI tne cael eae ¥

SP ate 1 Mota he 7A

ye eth WS sia > eae asi LAs Ry Zia

Serre eee inet GR MaRS) yh UD ee 0 artsy
i ie PeNed Uedgiin tha Devin ee Se

Kako ncvedh nr i rhe, SE benete saa TOK yi AER ; 7
rer Les GHVIEd Bt aie URIS PEON sheen ay ne hes on
ti. ; he ante fh. Aneraigineh hs Longe it ‘ } ey “Tt Y abe. ;

bois apr nie kee WL hs rgeaaet © ae eee hs

ibe rey, | tut ‘e wprnnes Supa :
Dr. Neal Smith, staff zoologist, examining eggs of parasitic cuckoos in the
main laboratory building, Barro Colorado Island, Canal Zone.

Vocalization of frogs being recorded by Dr. Stanley Rand, staff zoologist,
outside the main animal house, Barro Colorado Island, Canal Zone.
View of laboratory clearing from dock area, Barro Colorado Island, Canal
Zone.

Laboratory clearing at Barro Colorado Island, looking E.N.E. across Gatun
Lake. An insect trap is located in right foreground.
National Air Museum

' , i | Ly it;
tf pha TLE RAD a ‘ier a4 BERT $i ‘ igi) Weal, ited: ’ OCHO Le y, Muley
Mi Chalet Vian acne: “lei: a hoigiktanl tek iene nae Ts)

National Air Museum
S. Pau Jounston, Director

Fiscal year 1965 was a period of transition for the National Air
(and Space) Museum. Not only did long-term plans for the new fa-
cility to house the museum’s collections come into clearer focus, but all
museum programs were subject to critical reexamination.

Orientation toward the ‘famous first” which had long dominated
museum thinking was subordinated in favor of programs designed to
yield scientific information and education tailored to fit the needs of
our potential audiences in this period of rapidly advancing aerospace
technology.

1. For the masses who are expected to visit the new facility yearly,
our displays must present in clear and understandable fashion a bal-
anced story of aerospace development—not only of where we have
been and where we are but also where we are headed.

2. For the relatively small group of serious researchers in aerospace
technology and/or history, the museum must reorganize its already
extensive research resources and make them more readily available.

3. For those whose need-to-know includes the actual examination
of aerospace hardware, the NAM study collection at Silver Hill, Md.,
must be better documented and better housed. All these matters re-
quired detailed review.

One of the first actions of the present director on taking office in
September 1964 was to assemble a group of outside consultants to take
an objective look at the over-all problem. None of these advisers
were museum people as such, but each had a long background in some
aspects of aerospace science and technology. Their collective exper-
ience covered the entire range of air and space development. All
were sufficiently senior to have broad personal historical perspective.
They were asked to avoid any consideration of the placement of specific
items of hardware in specific locations in a projected building, but
rather to concentrate on such broad questions as ‘‘What is the purpose
of an aerospace museum in the nation’s capitol?””—‘‘What sort of story
should it tell?”—and “To whom does it speak?”

The results of this exercise are contained in a report entitled “‘Pro-
posed Objectives and Plans for the National Air and Space Museum,”
dated January 15, 1965. The report was considered and approved
(with minor modifications) by the National Air Museum Advisory

315
316 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965

Board at its meeting on January 26, 1965. It was subsequently ap-
proved by the Secretary and now constitutes the basic planning docu-
ment for the future. A condensed version of this report was given wide
distribution through one of the publications of the Aerospace Industries
Association.

The practice of seeking outside advice and assistance on museum
problems was followed throughout the year. Individuals and groups
knowledgeable and experienced in matters in which NAM is interested
(e.g., aero and space medicine, meteorology, flight safety, lighter-than-
air flight, etc.) were recruited to serve as advisers in developing useful
and accurate presentations for the new facility. A great deal of interest
in the museum has been engendered in this manner. It is evident that
there will be no lack of enthusiastic volunteer support for NAM
activities.

In addition to such informal arrangements, contracts were made with
certain specialized consultants (1) to make a study of NAM’s organiza-
tion and management problems in’ the preservation and restoration
division at Silver Hill, (2) to make preliminary studies of the organiza-
tion of our documentary and other research material, and (3) to advise
on matters relating to flight control displays and similar operations.

Although, in the past, a certain number of space artifacts had been
collected and were on display, little in the way of space-oriented
programs or scientific or technological capability existed. To remedy
this difficulty, two major steps were undertaken.

First, to alleviate the “space vacuum,” an astronautics department
under the direction of Frederick C. Durant III was established. Mr.
Durant came into the museum in October 1964 as one of the members
of the planning group. He joined the staff as assistant director of
astronautics in January 1965. His long background and broad expe-
rience in rocketry and space technology have greatly strengthened
NAM’s position. Under his direction a curatorial staff specializing in
space vehicle design, launch and propulsion technology, auxiliary sys-
tems development, and life support techniques will be developed.

Second, close working relationships were established with NASA,
not only through the activities of NASA’s Artifacts Committee
(which deals primarily with the disposition of important NASA-
developed hardware) but also with the scientific and technical staffs
of NASA. Administrator James Webb, Dr. Hugh Dryden, Dr. Robert
Seamans, and their associates supplied strong and continuing support
to NAM’s plans and programs. In turn, NAM provided public
exhibition space for NASA displays of current interest. Concurrently
with the completion of such programs as the Gemini flights, the
Ranger Moon shots, and the Mariner Mars exploration, the associated
NATIONAL AIR MUSEUM 317

equipment, explanations of the programs, and the achieved results
were put on display in the rotunda and in the west hall of the Arts
and Industries Building. Public interest and NASA’s favorable
reaction to these activities have been high.

In addition to the establishment of a separate astronautics depart-
ment as mentioned above, the organic structure of the staff was re-
studied and lines of responsibility clarified. As now constituted,
five major departments exist: aeronautics, astronautics, information
and education, exhibits, and administration.

As soon as conditions permit, an assistant director of aeronautics
(as an “opposite number” for Mr. Durant) will be selected. During
the year the work of the department was ably forwarded by the present
curatorial staff: Louis Casey for aircraft, Robert Meyer for power
plants and propulsion, and Kenneth Newland for auxiliary systems
and devices.

The information and education department, headed by chief
historian Paul E. Garber, maintained a constant service to correspond-
ents and visitors in connection with their studies on flight and flight
technology. Steps were initiated to improve the sorting and cataloging
of the Museum’s collection of research material. The services pro-
vided by Mr. Garber and his assistants contributed greatly to the
preparation of many articles for publication, television, and other
programs. Among his many activities, Mr. Garber gave 47 formal
lectures on various aspects of the history of flight, conducted 14 lecture
tours to museums, and participated in 6 radio and television programs.

The exhibits department, under the direction of James Mahoney,
in addition to maintaining close and continuous contact with the
architects of the new facility, made considerable progress in temporarily
refurbishing certain of the older NAM exhibit areas. Recognizing
that NAM has an obligation to maintain acceptable exhibits for
public display during the interval before any new building is available,
several areas in the Arts and Industries Building (opened up by the
removal of exhibits to the Museum of History and Technology) are
being redeveloped for NAM’s temporary use. These include the
southeast hall for display of aircraft and engines primarily for pri-
vate flying use, and the former power machinery hall for aerospace
art works, including paintings, drawings, and prints from our own col-
lections and on loan from NASA. As mentioned earlier, the west
hall has been in active use for temporary NASA displays of current
interest.

' Specimen preservation and restoration requirements for the preser-
vation and restoration division at Silver Hill were the subject of con-
siderable study and review in early 1965. The relationship between
318 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965

the curatorial staff and the division was clarified and codified. Under
Walter Male’s direction, in spite of severe personnel limitations, work
progressed on the restoration of such major items as the NC-4 and
the Loeing Amphibian, previously scheduled. It is expected that the
studies now under way by consultants will provide a more stable base
for future programing of the work of the division. Meanwhile, a
complete inventorying and cataloging of all NAM specimens at Silver
Hill was accelerated during the midsummer of 1965.

In the late spring of 1965 the first floor of the facility at 24th Street,
formerly occupied by the Museum of History and Technology was
turned over to the NAM exhibits department. The space was cleaned
and repainted and will be developed into an exhibits facility for the
Air Museum. The entire NAM collection of aircraft models was
moved into 24th Street to permit long-needed cataloging and evaluation
and also to make available more room at Silver Hill for preservation
and restoration work.

Under funds appropriated by the Congress, the architectural and
engineering work on the new facility made excellent progress in the
past year. Close and frequent contact was maintained with the archi-
tects, Hellmuth, Obata & Kassabaum in St. Louis and their associates,
Mills, Petticord, & Mills in Washington. Gyo Obata was in active
personal charge of the project during the entire year. In the spring
he moved a part of his St. Louis design staff to Washington to facilitate
close cooperation with NAM and GSA. By the end of the year prac-
tically all major design problems were resolved, and the architect
reported that the complete construction drawings will be available by
the end of August 1965. Although Congress has not yet given final
approval of the project, planning work is going forward as rapidly as
time and personnel permit. The target date for completion of the new
Air and Space Museum is now estimated sometime during fiscal 1970,
and all budgeting is being drawn on that basis.

Among the important staff-generated publications which appeared
during the year were the National Aeronautical Collections, 10th edition, by
Paul E. Garber, and the first two publications in the new Smithsonian
Annals of Flight series, The First Nonstop Coast-to-Coast Flight and the
Historic T—2 Airplane, by Louis S. Casey and The First Airplane Diesel
Engine: Packard Model DR-980 of 1928, by Robert B. Meyer. Several
other papers by staff personnel are in preparation. Also, the production
of a definitive biography of Samuel Pierpont Langley was started in
collaboration with the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory at
Cambridge.
President Johnson seen viewing a model of the proposed new Air and Space

Museum. At left are S. Paul Johnston, Director of the Museum, and
Secretary Ripley.

A sketch of the interior of the proposed new Air and Space Museum.

eo

ee

A model of the Smithsonian’s proposed new Air and Space Museum showing
the main entrance facing the Mall. The Wright Brothers’ plane can be
seen in the center background.
NATIONAL AIR MUSEUM 319

Accessions to the Museum, both in hardware and in research material,
are listed below. Special mention, however, should be made of certain
major items received in the past 12 months:

Agena B Flight Test Vehicle, USAF

Vertol VZ-—2 Helicopter, AMC/USA

McDonnell XHV-1 Convertiplane, USA

Prototype Ion Thruster, Electro Optical Systems, Inc.

Bell Model 30 Helicopter, Franklin Institute

Laboratory Glassware—Ion Experiment, Mrs. Robert H. Goddard
Besler Aero Steam Engine, Rear Admiral John K. Leydon
SPIRE Inertial Guidance System, M.I.T.

Prototype TIROS Satellite, NASA

ACCESSIONS

Additions to the National Aeronautical and Space Collections, re-
ceived and recorded during the fiscal year 1965, totaled 324 specimens
in 67 separate accessions, as listed below. Those from Government
departments are entered as transfers unless otherwise indicated; others
were received as gifts or loans.

Arr Force, DEPARTMENT OF THE: Flight test vehicle (Agena B) (NAM
1546).

Arr Force, DEPARTMENT OF THE (MontTeEiTH, Maj. Gen. D. O.,
AMARILLO AIR Force Base, TEx.): General Electric I-A Turbojet
Engine (1942), first American-made jet engine (NAM 1503).

Air Force, DEPARTMENT OF THE, SYSTEMS CoMMAND, Los ANGELES,
CauiF.: Unmarked ball 16-inch diameter made of BSTM-B265/
58T. Outer shell oxidized. This specimen reentered atmosphere
over Australia and is part of the Agena (NAM 1535).

ARMED Forces INSTITUTE OF PATHOLOGY, WASHINGTON, D.C.: Cutaway
of ejection seat and accessory components from an F-86A—5 aircraft
(NAM 1497).

ARMY, DEPARTMENT OF THE, ARMY MATERIEL COMMAND, Fort Eustis,
Va.: Vertol VZ-2, S/N 56-6943, tilt-wing VTOL aircraft (NAM
1536).

ARMY, DEPARTMENT OF THE, DIRECTOR OF PROGUREMENT, WASHINGTON,
D.C.: McDonnell XHV-1 convertiplane combining feature of
fixed-wing and rotary-wing (NAM 1537).

ARNOLD, Maj. Davin L., ArtincTon, Va.: AAF summer uniform,
worn during time immediately preceding death of Gen. H. H.
Arnold (NAM 1549).
320 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965

BasrorpD, G. M., Co., NEw York, N. Y.: Cutaway model of Hensoldt
binoculars, similar to those used by John Glenn on his space
flight (NAM 1494).

BRICHACEK, J. F., Euvcimw, Onto: Model of 1914 Burgess-Dunne
hydroplane-swept wing biplane, 1:16 size (NAM 1540).

CocHRAN, JACQUELINE, NEw York, N_ Y.: One medal and two
awards given to the donor for outstanding achievements in aviation
(NAM 1490).

Dickson, SipNEY H., Easton, Mp.: World War I, fleece-lined leather
flying boots, purported to have been used by Col. William Thaw
(NAM 1493).

Doo.trTLe, GEN. JAMES H., REponpo BEACH, Ca.ir.: Bronze Antarctica
Service Medal presented to donor by U.S. Navy (NAM 1517).

ELectro OpticaL SysTeMs, INc., PASADENA, CALIF.: Ion Thruster,
marked with label reading “in part developed by Dr. A. T. For-
rester, Electro Optical Systems, Inc.”” This specimen is operational
duplicate of Thruster used in suborbital shot (NAM 1545).

ExcHANGE Cius, MErpIAN, Miss.: Curtiss P-40E fighter WW II
(NAM 1506).

FRANKLIN INSTITUTE, PHILADELPHIA, Pa.: Bell model 30 helicopter
(NAM 1504).

GENERAL Dynamics, Fort WortH, TEx. Desk model approximately
1:80 size of the Convair F 111A. Model has variable swept
wing (NAM 1541).

GENERAL SERVICES ADMINISTRATION, WASHINGTON D.C.: LR-79 Rocket
Engine (NAM 1534).

GEORGETOWN CABINET & Finisuinc Co., Inc., WAsHtncTon, D.C.:
Model of Vlaicu monoplane (1910) (NAM 1498).

GENERAL Motors Corp., AC Exectronics Division, MILWAUKEE,
Wis.: An incomplete inertial guidance system for a Thor rocket
booster, plus nose cone and first station of Thor (NAM 1526).

Gopparp, Mrs. Rosert H., Worcester, Mass.: Equipment used
to test the flash visibility range of several mixtures of metal powders
(NAM 1552). Suitcase used by Dr. Robert H. Goddard (NAM
1551). Glassware used by/or under the supervision of Dr. Goddard
in experimental investigations of the behavior of ions (NAM 1550).

Goopricu, B. F. Co., Wasuincton, D.C.: Polaris rocket chamber
(sectionalized) showing filament winding technique (NAM 1553).

Hamitton, R.B., Jr., BALTIMORE, Mp.: Wright airplane stabilizer parts,
1913; exact-scale reproductions of the impeller and pendulum
units (Contract) (NAM 1527).
NATIONAL AIR MUSEUM 521

HAMMERSLEY, Cot. Howarp, Jr., ROANOKE, Va.: AAF summer
flight suit used in Mediterranean theater of operations during
World War II (NAM 1548).

Hartwick, Hersert D., Cayucos, Caxir.: Model of 1914 Burgess
flying boat, 1:16 size; model of Curtiss N, circa 1913-14, Trainer;
1:16 size; model of the Wright B-1, circa 1912, U.S. Navy Air-
craft, 1:16 size (NAM 1519).

INSTITUTE OF AERONAUTICAL SCIENCE, NEw York, N. Y.: A periodic
compass, World War I, German. Designed for use in aircraft
(NAM 1495).

Lreypon, REAR Apo. Joun K., WasHincTon, D.C.: Besler aeronautical
steam engine of 1956 (120 h.p.) designed to power Fairchild M 224,
four-engine airplane (NAM 1514).

LOcKHEED AIRCRAFT Corp., BURBANK, Ca.ir.: Wing section to illus-
trate the thermal deicing system of aircraft wings (NAM 1539).

LocKHEED-GEorGIA Co., Marietta, Ga.: Lockheed Jetstar Corp.
transport, 1 : 16 size, circa 1964 (NAM 1522).

Lowe A. W., St. Louis, Mo.: Early type of static-line parachute
(NAM 1509).

MacpoweL., Kart P., Fatrrax, VA.: 1928 airline ticket for trip,
London to Paris, issued to donor (NAM 1508).

MASSACHUSETTES INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, CAMBRIDGE, Mass.:
SPIRE inertial guidance system used on the first successful inertially
guided transcontinental flight, Feb. 8, 1953 (NAM 1511).

Matt, Pau R., Tempe City, Cauir., Model of Curtiss HA fighter,
circa 1919; first Navy fighter type (NAM 1516).

McDONNELL AIRCRAFT Corp., St. Louis, Mo.: One-third scale model
of Gemini spacecraft. This model represents the spacecraft which
will be used in the U.S. Manned-Space Program (NAM 1513).

MixesH, Maj. Rosert C., San Francisco, Cauir.: Model of Douglas
DST bearing registration and livery of first of DC-3 production
series (NAM 1523).

Mowawk ArrRLINES, Utica, N. Y.: Nine scale models representing
aircraft used by Mohawk Airlines (NAM 1554).

NATIONAL AERONAUTICS AND SPACE ADMINISTRATION, WASHINGTON,
D.C.: Prototype satellite Tiros, one of original five such craft
built. Basic configuration that of Tiros II (NAM 1544).

NATIONAL AERONAUTICS AND SPACE ADMINISTRATION, FLicHT RESEARCH
CENTER, Epwarps, Cauir.: Model North American X—15-3, model
1:16 size S/N 66672 (NAM 1518).

Navy, DEPARTMENT OF THE (MARINE Corps Scuoot, U.S.), QUANTICO,
Va.: Japanese copy of a Type 92, 7.7 mm. Lewis machinegun for
aircraft (NAM 1525).

7894276633
322 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965

Navy, DEPARTMENT OF THE, LAKEHURST, N. J.: Wooden propeller
(NAM 1524).

Navy, DEPARTMENT OF THE, MECHANICSBURG, Pa.: A collection of
Japanese and German World War II aircraft instruments (NAM
1502).

Navy, DEPARTMENT OF THE, BUREAU OF NAVAL WEAPONS, WASHING-
TON, D.C.: Michell-crankless aeronautical engine, 12 cylinder,
liquid-cooled barrel, approximately 200 h.p. at 2,000 r.p.m. (NAM
1538).

NEuMANN, C., TuusA, OKLA.: Collection of early airborne radio and
radar equipment plus descriptive manuals (NAM 1492).

NorTHWEST AIRLINES, MINNEAPOLIS, Minn.: Scale model of DC-8
transport (NAM 1529).

OpsAHL, ALVIN B., MINNEAPOLIS, Minn.: Wright J 4-B engine built
April 2, 1926 by Wright Aeronautical Corp. (NAM 1528).

PaTEeNnT Orrice, U.S., WAsHincTon, D.C.: Patent model in support of
patent claim for R. J. Spaulding Flying Machine, Mar. 5, 1889,
patent no. 398984 (NAM 1521).

PATTERSON, Mr. & Mrs. JEFFERSON, WASHINGTON, D.C.: Military
uniform belonging to ist Lt. Frank Stuart Patterson (1918) in whose
honor Patterson Field (later Wright-Patterson AFB, Dayton, Ohio)
was named (NAM 1499).

PERKIN-ELMER CORPORATION, NORWALK, COoNN.: 1:16 scale model of
the Stratoscope II telescope used in high altitude experimental
telescopic photography (NAM 1500).

PIASECKI, FRANK, PHILADELPHIA, Pa.: Piasecki PV2, 3-blade rotor
helicopter (NAM 1505).

ROBERTSON, CLIFFORD, ST. PETERSBURG, FLA.: Portion of fabric from
the French airplane ‘“‘Question Mark,” which made first Paris to
New York flight, autographed by pilots Coste and Bellonte (NAM
1547).

RYAN, Pror. JAmMEs J., St. PAut, Minn.: Ryan Flight Recorder Exhibit
unit which contains the components of the Recorder, showing its
development and uses (NAM 1507).

ScALE Crart Mopets, MassiLLon, Onto: Model 1:16 size of Fabre
Hydro “Avion” Canard 1910 first hydroaircraft; Curtiss ‘“Tan-
ager’—Winner of Guggenheim Safe Flight Contest (1929) 1:16
size; and model of Wright Model “F,” 1:16 size (NAM 1543).

SCHOENBERG, Mr., Lone IsLanp, N.Y.: 1:4 size model of a New
Standard D-25A ‘“‘Pride of Patterson’ and a Curtiss-Reed propel-
ler, circa 1925 (NAM 1489).
NATIONAL AIR MUSEUM Gy)

SmiTH, J. C., Massitton, Onto: Lockheed XC-35 aircraft, 1:16 size
model of first transport airplane with pressurized cabin (NAM
1520).

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, UNKNOWN: Model 1:49 size of North Ameri-
can F-100C Super Sabre aircraft (NAM 1515).

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, FounD In NAM Co t tection: Small brass
fitting, check valve; attributed to Robert Goddard (NAM 1530).
Nose cone of small rocket with ejection mechanism attributed to
Robert Goddard (NAM 1531). Tail section of small rocket attrib-
uted to Robert Goddard (NAM 1532). Five pairs of World War
I radio headsets (NAM 1496). Four pairs of World War I, U.S.
Army radio earphones (NAM 1501). Life-size painting of Maj.
Gen. George O. Squier (NAM 1491).

SPERRY GyroscoPpE Co., Division oF SPERRY-RAND CorP., GREAT
Neck, N.Y.: A collection of 60 early aircraft instruments, most of
which were developed and manufactured by the Sperry Gyroscope
Co. (NAM 1488).

VaeETH, J. Gorpon, WASHINGTON, D.C.: Copy of first Tiros Nephanaly-
sis (cloud map) signed by James B. Jones and J. H. Conover (NAM
1533).

VirciniA PoLyTECHNIC INSTITUTE, BLAcKsBURG, VA.: J44—-R-12 Fair-
child cutaway turbojet engine (1952-59) (NAM 1512).

WATERMAN, WALDO, SAN Dieco, Cauir.: Full-size reproduction of the
1909 Popular Mechanics glider (NAM 1542).

Wis, J. L., SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA: Two fine examples of native-made
Australian boomerangs (NAM 1510).

ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
The cooperation of the following persons and organizations in

providing reference materials for the Museum’s Historical Flight
Research Center is sincerely appreciated and acknowledged:

Air Force, U.S., Wright-Patterson
AFB, Ohio.

Air Force, U.S. Kelly AFB, Texas.
All-Woman_ Transcontinental Air
Race, Inc., Teterboro, N.J.
American Institute of Aeronautics and
Astronautics, New York, N.Y.
Aviation Week and Space Tech-

nology, New York, N.Y.

Bagley, J. A., Farnborough, Hants,
England.

Bell Aerosystems Company, Buffalo,
N.Y:

Boeing Co., Seattle, Wash.

Bradford, R. W., Don Mills, Ontario,
Canada.

Bronte, Emory B., Honolulu, Hawaii.

Brunner, Calyton J., Troy, Ohio.
324

Campbell, Mark (estate of) through
Kenn C. Rust) Glendale, Calif.
Cathcart, Donald G., Hermosa Beach,
Calif.

Chamberlain,
Park, Mich.

Coast Guard, U.S., Washington, D.C.

Coombs, Charles I., Los Angeles,
Calif.

Experimental Aircraft
Hales Corners, Wis.

Fahey, James C., Falls Church, Va.

Federal Aviation Agency, Washing-
ton, D.C.

General Dynamics/Fort Worth, Fort
Worth, Tex.

Gratz, Charles Murray, Greenwich,
Conn.

Hart, John T. (through William
MacCracken), St. Louis, Mo.

Herr, Otto, Hanover, Germany.

Hodous, Mrs. Charles J., Jr., Fairview
Park, Ohio.

Holt, Ken, Washington, D.C.

Hooper, Harold, Vienna, Va.

Hunsaker, Dr. J. C., Cambridge,
Mass.

Hutchinson, Capt. J. D., Denver,
Colo.

Jacobs, Col. Stanley F., USAF Ret.,
Arlington, Va.

Kaman Aircraft Corp., Bloomfield,
Conn.

Kines, Ronald L., Hyattsville, Md.

Knell, K. A., Cambridge, England.

Koster, William C., Evanston, Ill.

Kulp, Mrs. Jeanne, Reisterstown,
Md.

Lockheed Aircraft Corp., Burbank,
Calif.

Lea, John, Washington, D.C.

Ralph G., Lincoln

Association,

SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965

Lockheed Aircraft Corp., Washing-
ton, D.C.

Lazarus, William C. (thru A. B.
McMullen), Washington, D.C.

Marshall, Mrs. Shirley, Tucson, Ariz.

Matt, Paul R., Temple City, Calif.

Merkle, Gustave John, Greenbelt,
Md.

Messer, Glenn E., Birmingham, Ala.

Meyer, Jerome B., Ormond Beach,
Fla.

Murray, J. J., West Hollywood,
Calif.

National Aeronautics and Space Ad-
ministration, Goddard Space
Flight Center, Greenbelt, Md.

National Aeronautics and Space Ad-
ministration Washington, D.C.

Navy, U.S., Washington, D.C.

Navy, U.S., Philadelphia, Pa.

Ninety Nines, Inc., El Paso, Tex.

North American Aviation, Inc.,
Washington, D.C.

Nye, Willis L., Hayward, Calif.

New York Port Authority, New York,
IN, YX;

Rolls-Royce, Ltd., Derby, England.

Shell Companies Foundation, Inc.,
New York, N.Y.

Sivel, Dr. W., San Francisco, Calif.

Smith, Mrs. Joan Merriman, Long
Beach, Calif.

Stearns, Raymond L., Raleigh, N.C.

Thompson Ramo Wooldridge, Inc.,
Cleveland, Ohio.

Townson, George, Meadowbrook, Pa.

Turner, Thomas, Washington, D.C.

Wigton, Don C., Detroit, Mich.

Williams, Warren W., Douglasville,
Pa.

United Air Lines, Chicago, III.

Philip S. Hopkins, director of the National Air Museum since 1958,
whose efforts during the past few years laid the groundwork for the
magnificent new NASM facility-to-be, retired as of August 1, 1964.
Paul E. Garber served as acting director for the month of August
and the present incumbent took office on September 1, 1964.
John F. Kennedy Center for the
Performing Arts

vi Ki Coe ny JF
Voris (us "4
i
<
Ni BS oa 1
38)
FF biel Sg nl y Fin
Si 4or BAe? Vhomte.
~ , a ane } ¢T
TEAS ee tORs es
‘J
; Ye eee Wh Neen
ae,
oT ay Pa reas,
‘ api % rear es - iM
va ; n ad
i
r ba
f
tt PREY Pew Cie e nat dyrornes Ts TG» f
Be een : ‘ i i ares vt Mey pig al: Pew:
VPs ato v ate aaa 7 rat gc} ay = vedi i ti ie
rey oe eas alienate 1 ioe, ae
sahe! 5 “ aur aan rein x i
eke, Nii: A nea Oa Warn, aan

, Lats ‘ va i
‘he Dts. Wate mgt . ita. i . ', mc er ine

Pager cans ‘Shu sadioy ; ie mand HA Niavia ne
inchs: ead, oy ae the eer, if % yey Jt Aa
aL wide anette, INN Bo wpe a aga
Wee aie bias: pos: ‘a hgh, cerning
Caphalia ess winnie A ostmect: ta, Se

vi
John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts

Rocer L. STEVENS
Chairman, Board of Trustees

The past 12 months have seen greater strides toward the creation of
the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts than any previous
period since inception of the original idea. Funds have been raised to
match the full Federal appropriation. The ground-breaking has taken
place. The Metropolitan Opera National Company, jointly spon-
sored and underwritten by the Center and the Metropolitan Opera
Association, is areality. Final architectural plans are being prepared,
and the letting of contracts will begin in September. A year from now
the superstructure of the Center should be rising on the banks of the
Potomac. It is a year in which the Center has graduated from the
realm of hopes, plans, and dreams to actuality, detail, and promise.

ORGANIZATION

The National Cultural Center was established by an Act of Congress
in September 1958. This Act which terminated in 5 years was ex-
tended for 3 more years until September 1966, and specified that the
money for the Center’s construction must be raised by voluntary
contributions. Congress authorized a nationwide fund-raising
campaign for this purpose.

Following the death of President Kennedy there was a spontaneous
movement throughout the country to make the Cultural Center, in
which he had taken such a close personal interest, his sole official
memorial in the Nation’s capital. President Johnson sent an Admin-
istration request to Congress in December 1963; the measure was
passed with full bipartisan support and signed into law by the President
on January 23, 1964 (Public Law 88-260).

Under the bylaws of this Act, and pursuant thereto, the Board of
Trustees have held three meetings during the past 12 months, and the
members of the Executive Committee met five times during the same
period.

i
328 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965

ADMINISTRATIVE ACTIONS

BoARD OF TRUSTEES

At the present time the membership of the Board of Trustees of the
John F. Kennedy Center is as follows:

Richard Adler* Sol M. Linowitz+*
Howard F. Ahmanson Harry C. McPherson, Jr.+-*
Floyd D. Akers George Meany

Robert O. Anderson -+* L. Quincy Mumford
Ralph E. Becker + Edwin W. Pauley*

K. LeMoyne Billings+ Arthur Penn*

Mrs. Thomas W. Braden* Mrs. Charlotte T. Reid
Ernest R. Breech Richard S. Reynolds, Jr.
Edgar M. Bronfman Frank H. Ricketson, Jr.
Mrs. George R. Brown* S. Dillon Ripley, II+
Ralph J. Bunche Richard Rodgers*
Anthony J. Celebrezze Leverett Saltonstall
Joseph S. Clark Arthur Schlesinger, Jr.*
Abe Fortas* Mrs. Jouett Shouse-++

J. William Fulbright Mrs. Jean Kennedy Smith*
Mrs. George A. Garrett Roger L. Stevens+
Leonard H. Goldenson* Frank Thompson, Jr.
George B. Hartzog, Jr.+ Walter N. Tobriner+
Mrs. John F. Kennedy + William Walton+
Robert F. Kennedy +* William H. Waters, Jr.
Francis Keppel Edwin L. Weisl, Sr.*
Mrs. Albert D. Lasker + Robert W. Woodruff*
Erich Leinsdorf-+* James C. Wright, Jr.

Mrs. Lyndon B. Johnson, Mrs. John F. Kennedy
and Mrs. Dwight D. Eisenhower continue to
serve as honorary cochairmen of the Center

The elected officers of the Center are as follows:

Roger L. Stevens, chairman Philip J. Mullin, assistant secretary
Robert O. Anderson, vice chairman and administrative officer

Sol M. Linowitz, vice chairman Herbert D. Lawson, assistant treasurer
Ralph E. Becker, general counsel Kenneth Birgfeld, assistant treasurer
Daniel W. Bell, treasurer Paul Seltzer, assistant treasurer

K. LeMoyne Billings, secretary L. Corrin Strong, chairman emeritus

*Denotes a new member appointed by the President since June 30, 1964
+ Denotes a member of the Executive Committee
KENNEDY CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS 329

JFK Center/GSA Liaison COMMITTEE

The General Services Administration is serving as the Center’s
agent for design and construction. The JFK Center/GSA Liaison
Committee was formed to work on final plans and specifications
and all future phases of building the Center. It held 18 meetings
throughout the fiscal year. These meetings bring together represent-
atives of the Center, General Services Administration, and the archi-
tect and make determinations with respect to planning, contracting,
and construction. The committee also serves as a coordinating
group among the various agencies of the Government having inci-
dental interest or jurisdiction in the planning and construction of
the project. This includes the government of the District of Colum-
bia, the National Park Service, and the various security and police
jurisdictions.

In addition to Mr. Stevens, chairman ex officio, trustees and offi-
cers of the Center serving on the committee are:

Ralph E. Becker, general counsel
Mrs. Jouett Shouse

S. Dillon Ripley

George B. Hartzog, Jr.

Philip J. Mullin, administrative officer

PROGRAM COMMITTEE

Arthur Schlesinger, Jr., was appointed chairman of the Center’s
Program Committee. Serving with him will be Mrs. Thomas W.
Braden, Harold Clurman, Richard N. Goodwin, August Heckscher,
Mrs. John F. Kennedy, Senator Robert F. Kennedy, Goddard
Lieberson, Oliver Smith, and George Stevens, Jr. The Program
Committee will make recommendations for the maximum effective
use of the Center’s facilities to comply with the law and the intent
of the Congress and will also suggest candidates for the position of
program director as well as guidelines respecting the duties of this
office. The Board of Trustees in turn will act on these recommen-
dations and define the policy with respect to the Center’s operations.

MEMORIAL COMMITTEE

The John F. Kennedy Center Memorial Committee, responsible
for selecting a suitable and appropriate memorial to President Kennedy
for inclusion within the Center complex, has met and has made a
preliminary report on its recommendations to the trustees.
330 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965

FinE Arts ACCESSIONS COMMITTEE

The Fine Arts Accessions Committee appointed a subcommittee
to assist it in preliminary consideration and screening of all works
of art offered to the Center. The subcommittee is made up of leading
authorities in the fine arts residing in the Washington area. Serving
on the subcommittee are: David W. Scott, National Collection of
Fine Arts, as chairman; J. Carter Brown, National Gallery of Art;
Mrs. Marjorie Phillips, The Phillips Gallery; Edward Durell Stone;
Hermann W. Williams, Jr., Corcoran Gallery of Art; and Karel Yasko,
General Services Administration. The list of gifts tendered and offi-
cially accepted thus far (not including those from foreign governments)
comprise the following items:

Portrait of President Kennedy by Carlos Andreson. Gift of the artist.
Steinway grand piano. Gift of Mrs. Edward Sloane.
Mural painting by Mark Rothko. Gift of Mrs. Albert Lasker.

Japanese BYOBU folding two-panel screen. Gift of a group of
Japanese ladies.

Recording of Enesco’s 1st and 2d Rumanian rhapsodies conducted
by the composer. Gift of Donald H. Gabor.

PROGRESS IN FUND RAISING

As of June 30, 1965, pledges and contributions to the John F. Ken-
nedy Center for the Performing Arts exceeded $15.5 million—the
amount necessary to qualify for the full matching Federal grant.
Included in that sum was a gift of $500,000 from the Joseph P. Kennedy,
Jr., Foundation and a $5-million grant from the Ford Foundation
which had been contingent on two-to-one matching terms as originally
stipulated in April 1964.

LanpD GIFT

The two daughters and the son of the late Mr. and Mrs. Christian
Heurich, Sr., deeded to the Center, as a gift, a plot of land appraised
at $150,000. It is situated within the boundaries of the Center’s
site. This gift, which was made in memory of Mr. and Mrs. Heurich,
Sr., completed the acquisition of their property without the necessity
for any condemnation action by the National Capital Planning
Commission.
KENNEDY CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS 331

ForEIGN GIFTS

In addition to the previously reported gifts of marble from the
Italian Government and a Waterford chandelier from Ireland, four
other foreign governments have made contributions to the Center
in the past year. The Danish Government agreed to supply the
furniture valued at $155,000 for the Grand Foyer. The West German
Government will donate sculptured bronze panels for the entrance of
the Center with a minimum value of $250,000. A magnificent hand-
woven red silk curtain, accented with gold, will hang from the proscen-
ium of the Opera House as a joint gift from the Government of
Japan and the America-Japan Society of Tokyo. Because of the time
and skills required, the donors expect the cost to exceed $140,000.
Twelve crystal chandeliers, designed by the noted Norwegian glass
designer Jonas Hidle, will enhance the Concert Hall as Norway’s
contribution to the Center. The architect estimates that to procure
or duplicate this gift which is being fabricated by the Christiania
Glasmagasin, near Oslo, would cost in excess of $15,000 each.

DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE

With Robert O. Anderson as chairman, the Development Com-
mittee will continue to prevail upon the trustees to assist the Center
through their own individual gifts and by additional solicitation of
foundations and individuals for major contributions. In addition,
approaches to and from foreign governments will be further pursued.

The Washington Area Special Gifts Committee and its subcommit-
tees, having completed their work, ceased operation as a fund-raising
adjunct of the Center.

WASHINGTON COMMITTEE THEATER SEAT Priority PLAN

A maximum of 100 seats, at $3,000 each, will be allocated in the
theater for sale by the Washington Committee under the Theater
Seat Priority Plan. Each endowment will include priority privileges
for opening-night performances for a period of 25 years. To become
effective a minimum of 80 seats had to be sold. This number has
already been subscribed.

SEAT ENDOWMENT PLAN

To date, 30 boxes and 270 seats have been officially designated by
donors in the Center. A considerable amount of funds remains in
the reserve account awaiting final disposition.
332 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965

SousA MEMORIAL

Orginally conceived in the form of a band shell to be erected on
the roof terrace, this endowment, owing to changes in the utilization
of the roof area, will provide the stage and acoustical sound reflectors
in the Concert Hall. An appropriate plaque will designate this as
a gift in the name of John Philip Sousa from John Philip Sousa Memo-
rial, Inc. This group is made up largely of high school and college
band masters whose bands are presenting concerts and other musical
events: the proceeds from these events are being contributed toward
the fulfillment of their $100,000 pledge. Nearly half of the pledged
amount has been received by the Center. Bands and orchestras
participating will be appropriately recognized by inscription on the
memorial plaque.

Girts OF MATERIALS

Interest has been shown by several domestic industries in supplying
American-produced materials as gifts to the Center. The Reynolds
Metals Co. has donated aluminum ingots valued at $75,000 which
will be fabricated to meet the specifications of the architect. The
Martin Marietta Corp. has given the Center 13,000 barrels of cement,
which reduces the amount required for purchase in the building con-
tract by more than $50,000. It is possible that other gifts of this type
will be received before the invitations to bid go out to the general
contractors.

FuTuRE NEEDS

With the monies obtained from public contributions, the Federal
grant, and the Treasury bonds, there are, according to the General
Services Administration, sufficient funds on hand to proceed with the
construction of the Center. However, it should be recalled that in
the John F. Kennedy Center Act (Public Law 88-260), Congress
stated that the Center shall, among other activities, “develop programs
for children and youth and elderly (and for other age groups as well)
in such arts designed specifically for their participation, education
and recreation.”” No previous provision has been made for the finan-
cial support of such activities. In view of this the trustees have dis-
cussed the need and plans for a program development fund to insure
that the mandate of Congress will be appropriately and fully realized.
KENNEDY CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS 353

ARCHITECTURAL DEVELOPMENTS

Stupio Firm THEATER

Final drawings are about complete for the 500-seat Studio Film
Theater to be located on the roof of the Center above the 1,100-seat
main theater. Proscenium-type screen facilities will provide for the
projection of 16 mm., 35 mm., and 70 mm. motion pictures while the
theater also will be available for dramatic offerings, concerts, dance
recitals, and lectures. When desirable or appropriate, this auditorium
can also be converted into a theater-in-the-round.

FURTHER REFINEMENTS

Although the shape of the Opera House has been altered, it still
maintains the circular effect originally envisioned.

The Concert Hall now is in a rectangular form in the interest of
better acoustics. Provision also has been made for the installation of
an Aeolian-Skinner concert organ which was given to the Center by
Mrs. Jouett Shouse. It has been designed for use either as a solo
instrument or as part of an orchestra.

In the theater more balcony seats have been added and some orches-
tra seats removed to provide a more intimate atmosphere.

There also will be a 200-seat tourist center and cinema on the ground
level for the showing of documentary films and for orientation sessions
in conjunction with tours of the Center.

LAND DEVELOPMENTS

Steps have been initiated for the condemnation of the Watergate
Inn and surrounding area.

On the property adjacent to the site of the Center there is under
construction a project known as the Watergate Towne Development.
Four buildings are contemplated in this undertaking and it is known
that Building No. 1, which is designated as stage 4 of the development,
will rise to a height 41 feet above the main roof of the Center. As long
ago as last November 25, 1964, the Center’s general counsel went on
record before the Board of Zoning Appeals to express the trustees’
opposition to the proposed height of this building. Thus far the Board
has not handed down a ruling on this matter. The developer of the
334 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965

Watergate project, however, indicated no intention of altering his
blueprints. It was, therefore, resolved by the trustees that the officers
and general counsel of the Center take all legal measures to oppose
vigorously the construction of Building No. 1 to any height not sub-
stantially below the cornice line of the Kennedy Center.

DEVELOPMENT OF THE SITE

On May 8, 1964, the National Capital Planning Commission (NCPC)
which is the central planning agency for the Federal and District of
Columbia Governments, reaffirmed its approval of the site. On July
23, 1964, the National Capital Planning Commission approved the
site plan in lieu of zoning. These latter actions were taken after ex-
tensive study by a task force composed of representatives of the NCPC,
the General Services Administration, the National Park Service, the
District of Columbia Department of Highways and Traffic, and the
Center’s architect.

CONSULTANTS

To assure that the Center will have the benefit of the finest technical
knowledge and experience in the many diverse fields connected with
the performing arts, the architect and General Services Administration
have made extensive use of consultants. Specialists in lighting, seating,
acoustics, audiovisual equipment, stage design and equipment, and
theater planning have been retained. Working together they will af-
ford the Center the finest technical competence available in all phases
of opera, musical comedy, drama, ballet, symphony orchestra, and
motion picture presentations.

Included in the list are two of the Nation’s leading acoustical ex-
perts—they have been consulting, advising, and working closely with
the architect, General Services Administration, and the Center to
insure that the acoustical characteristics of the Kennedy Center will
be the finest and most nearly perfect of any of the performing-arts
halls in the world.

RESTAURANT FACILITIES

A 10-year agreement was entered into with the Restaurant
Management Division of Automatic Canteen Company of America to
cover the operation of all restaurant facilities in the Center. Auto-
matic Canteen has recently designed the Metropolitan Opera’s new
facilities at Lincoln Center. They will be responsible for catering and
Architect’s model of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts,
showing the facade facing the Potomac River.

Architect’s conception of the entrance plaza of the John F. Kennedy Center for
the Performing Arts in the Nation’s Capital.
Model of the

*
e
-
&
4

g Re

grand foyer for the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts.
KENNEDY CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS 335

servicing the main restaurant which will seat approximately 275 per-
sons, a dual-purpose cafeteria/buffet seating approximately 245, and
a coffee shop with a capacity of about 100 persons. In addition, there
will be other refreshment areas in the Grand Foyer. Income accruing
to the Center from this contract is expected to be sizable.

CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE

The architect reported that his final plans would be ready by Sep-
tember 30. It will then take approximately 8 weeks for General
Services Administration to review the plans and prepare the necessary
documents for bidding. Thus, it would be about December 15, 1965,
before the bids will have been received and evaluated. Prior to that
time demolition of all remaining buildings on the site will have been
completed and the necessary relocation of Rock Creek Parkway should
be finished.

SPECIAL EVENTS

GROUND-BREAKING CEREMONY

At noon on December 2, 1964, President Lyndon B. Johnson broke
ground for the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts
before an audience of more than 1,000 persons, including members
of the Kennedy family, the Congress, the Diplomatic Corps, the Supreme
Court, the Cabinet, the Center’s trustees, and distinguished perform-
ing artists. The program for the ceremony included the following:

Invocation by the Most Reverend Philip Hannan, Auxiliary Bishop
of Washington.

Introduction by the Chairman of the Board of Trustees of Sir John
Gielgud who delivered a passage from Shakespeare’s Henry V.

A hymn by the choral group of the U.S. Navy Band.

The reading by Jason Robards, Jr., of quotations from the speeches by
President Kennedy concerning the arts.

Remarks by Senator-elect Robert F. Kennedy.
Address by the President of the United States.

Swearing in of the Center’s new trustees by Justice White of the
Supreme Court.
336 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965

Following the ceremony a liuncheon was held in the diplomatic
reception rooms of the State Department for some 400 distinguished
guests. Speakers at the luncheon were Vice President-elect Humphrey,
Edward Durell Stone, and Roger L. Stevens.

Joun F. Kennepy CENTER-METROPOLITAN OPERA
NATIONAL COMPANY

As an indication of his great and personal interest in the project,
President Kennedy himself announced, at the White House on October
11, 1963, the formation of the Metropolitan Opera National Company
under the joint auspices of the Metropolitan Opera Association and the
Center. At that time he fully endorsed the purpose of the Company
to “fill a long-felt need in our musical life . . . (and to)... give
opportunity to the young talent with which this country abounds.”

It was of increasing concern to the trustees of the Center that during
the period of planning and construction it was vitally necessary to
emphasize and give active affirmation to the national character of the
Center. The Metropolitan Opera Association’s concept of a truly na-
tional opera company that would bring this art form to cities and
citizens throughout this land seemed to present an ideal and timely
project for furtherance of the trustees’ efforts in this direction.

Not only does the Company fulfill a specific provision of our Congres-
sional mandate—to present classical and contemporary opera—but it
also provides simultaneously a means of training and participation for
talented young Americans. It seems particularly fitting that this first
presentation under the cosponsorship of the Center should be one that
was so close to the late President to whom the Center is a memorial.

In the middle of July the Company is scheduled to assemble on the
campus of Butler University in Indianapolis, Ind., for an intensive
8-week rehearsal period prior to launching their first nationwide tour
on September 20 at Clowes Memorial Hall in Indianapolis. Their
season will extend through May 1966 and include some 70 North
American cities.

(On the evening of May 3, 1965, the Metropolitan Opera National
Company appeared in the Department of State Auditorium as part of
a series of Cabinet presentations.)
KENNEDY CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS 5a.

New York Wor.tp’s FAIR

One of the new exhibits in the Federal Pavilion at the 1965 New
York World’s Fair is a handsome display of the John F. Kennedy Center
for the Performing Arts in which a model of the Center is the highlight.
Surrounding it are color enlargements of interior and exterior photo-
graphs of the model together with quotations from President Kennedy’s
speeches concerning the importance of the arts in our society as well
as pertinent statements of President Johnson. This exhibit is located
at the end of the panoramic ride in the Federal Pavilion which last
year had 5% million visitors.

THE FUTURE

Never before in the history of the Nation’s capital have the prospects
for a truly national center for the performing arts looked as bright as
they do today. From incoming mail, press comments, and general
interest expressed in numerous ways, the country at large is aware of,
in support of, and eager for the reality of the Kennedy Center. We
have successfully hurdled the two initial stages: the preparation of firm
and detailed groundwork and planning; and, the conclusion of the
campaign to secure the necessary funds for construction. Ahead of us
lies the construction itself and then utilization of the Center’s facilities
in compliance with the mandate of Congress. In the ensuing 12
months major strides should be made in the building of the Center and
progress will continue in planning for its projected operations.

Finally, it cannot be stressed too greatly that the development of the
Center to the stage herein described would not have been possible
without the unceasing support and encouragement that has been
received from the Smithsonian Institution, the General Services Admin-
istration, the many other Government agencies who have been at all
times helpful and understanding, the members of Congress whose faith
and trust in our undertaking have eased many burdens and problems,
all of the members of President Kennedy’s family whose active interest
has been a constant source of inspiration, and the enthusiasm and
support of President and Mrs. Johnson.

789-427—66——34
338 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965

FINANCIAL REPORT, JULY 1, 1964, THROUGH
JUNE 30, 1965

July 28, 1965
To THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE
Joun F. Kennepy CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS
Washington, D.C.

Gentlemen:

We have examined the books and records of the JOHN F. KENNEDY
CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS for the period July 1, 1964,
through June 30, 1965, and submit our report herewith as follows:

Exuisir A—Balance Sheet as of June 30, 1965.
Exuizir B—Statement of Income, Expenses and Fund Balance for the
Year July 1, 1964 Through June 30, 1965.
Exutsir B-I—Statement of Expenses for the Year July 1, 1964 Through
June 30, 1965.

Our examination was made in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards and accordingly included such tests of the accounting records and
such other auditing procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances.

In our opinion the accompanying report presents fairly the financial position
of the JOHN F. KENNEDY CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS
at June 30, 1965 and the results of its operation for the period then ended in
conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.

Respectfully submitted,

(S) Joun J. ADDABO

Certified Public Accountant

EXHIBIT A

BALANCE SHEET, JUNE 30, 1965

ASSETS
CURRENT ASSETS
Cash in banks
Generalaccounts. $2,146, 615. 19
Time deposits
and savings

ACCOUNTS, css 1O2015 13200774 ~ S127 1614935296

Notes receivable—due within one

EAI ETRE, SRL eer ac 125, 000. 00
INGO RETINA. coosccacesane 9,219.18
Accrued interest receivable....... 164, 369. 20
Rettyicasi fume sary eis eeeione 400. 00
Deposit with airlines 2.0).0.. «06 425. 00

Stock, bonds, and property re-
CEIVED 518. bicelols ainuin aie Hl ies 268, 659.00 $12, 730, 008. 34
KENNEDY CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS 339

PLEDGES RECEIVABLE

National General Account......... : $10, 000. 00
National Seat Reserve Account..... 600. 00
President’s Business Committee..... 26, 500. 00
Washington Area Building Fund—

OP PTO eer 6, 100. 00
Washington Area Building Fund—

Berio Cc: 8 ford Sale woh the ws «saa 0s 10;523717
Washington Area Seat Reserve Ac-

I TCLTE SS ae! 5, 350. 00
Washington Area Federal Employee

MORAN i hte aie ato woh ws is slate 1, 884. 50
Washington Area Federal Employee

Drive—Seat Endowment......... 45.00
Washington Area Tangible Property. 35, 000. 00 $96, 002. 67

REAL ESTATE FIXED ASSETS AND OTHER
TANGIBLE PROPERTY

Cost of land—advanced to NCPC.. $146, 000. 00
GGASEGIGHON COSTS «ic 60022 os 6 oe 2s 926, 784. 20
Furniture and equipment—book

“a NS Sy Ao ee 5, 343. 88
Land and other property donated... 414, 750. 00

Gifts from foreign nations.......... 1, 787, 000. 00 3, 279, 878. 08

OTHER ASSETS
Notes receivable—due later than one

Waser s ia vo ecole e ogee mare sie.da $350, 000. 00
Prepaid expenses—Creative America. 56, 425. 00 406, 425. 00
Pet AL ASSE US 5 6-1.P ror. ietate weet as De See. a eels $16, 512, 314. 09
LIABILITIES AND NET WORTH
LIABILITIES
Payroltaxes withheld 920225, POPPI, <2h2t Ee $1, 082. 34
NET WORTH
Pledites PECeIVa Dl si. 62 o0s5 ce. een $96, 002. 67
Fund balance—June 30, 1965...... 16,415, 229.08 16, 511/231. 75

otal abilities! and: net: worthy, 06). 5 06 05.6 ecco $16, 512, 314. 09

——————— es
340 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965
EXHIBIT B

STATEMENT OF INCOME, EXPENSES, AND FUND BALANCE
FOR THE YEAR JULY 1, 1964, THROUGH JUNE 30, 1965

CONTRIBUTIONS AND PLEDGES PAID IN GEN-
ERAL ACCOUNTS

National General Account........... $6, 255, 553. 36
President’s Business Committee...... 1, 361, 406. 36
Washington Area Building Fund..... 661, 169. 01
Washington Area Federal Employee
1D Farhan te cen areata lari sds iter 8 1, 888. 63
Interest Incomets ase ee oe aeeeooe 314, 054. 93
National Tangible Property......... 1, 787, 000. 00
Special Theatre Glube oo. co..n)s- ee 189, 614. 45
Total generalsaccoumts crete iscsi os secs age ees $10, 570, 686. 74
RESERVE ACCOUNTS
National Reserve Account........... $104, 233. 98
National Seat Reserve Account...... 161, 272. 78
Washington Area Building Fund..... 603, 113. 94
Washington Area Seat Reserve Ac-
COUNC. Cc noe Me REE es cael aa 209, 126. 63
Washington Area Federal Employee
Drive—Seat Endowment.......... 3, 449. 63
School Children’s Reserve Fund..... 1, 207. 46
Totalireserve accounts: <2)... some gnpsth- cas qa 1, 082, 404. 42
PE OtA AN COME saervccsestorennespod eee Ue tt Neioi= eye lara coke eee $11, 653, 091. 16
Mectuctiexpenses—exhibit Bato eo eee 392, 811. 61
Excess'of receipts’ over’expenses-}- (F354. 22 71/,- ec) -1- tee $11, 260, 279. 55
Fund balance—-begimning of year...) <.j)55 cee eae ce els 4,815, 154. 08
Expenses prior to July 1, 1964, capitalized as construction
COSTS: BOAR ess 1S ale eon eee emma er les ce eee ae 339, 795. 45

Funp ;BALANcE=—June 30; 1965.46 22... .2aG¢8 06 rsd $16, 415, 229. 08
KENNEDY CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS

341

EXHIBIT B-1

STATEMENT OF EXPENSES FOR THE YEAR JULY 1, 1964,

THROUGH JUNE 30, 1965

SEULIVES «5 2s Sata eye Ree ee eR Ge na Ocoee $76, 236. 04
VEER, (0S 05 27 eR eg gn 3,818.77
Pepreciation—furniture and equipment...................- 868. 34
Pqlpaieat rental and repaits...... 2... - ees ee ete 2, 398. 01
SESE LOTS . 2 od DA SRR RRR ea a ee 4, 453. 23
Wiicemmpplies aNd POstages..cm. esos eee de ee ences vane ees 3, 491. 54
POCA PRCA ICTISES AEs Joye, u, f12)55 2 shops ie eo. 6,(E oie a Alem shi and aia re Ganse 6, 624. 17
PEM PRAM DUDUCICY:.< ks ce ee eee se ee came aw cee sues 233. D1
LP SEUEI@)) CODD Uae SS) 2 See a eed ee oe oe Oe 32, 107. 83
Rpt ANIN MS IAI ec one hoe logs, Os Alas nial Wa new ke wwe 948. 60
ee piseNe ARO TOLEREADM. oo... a shcwe coder te eee cde eyes 6, 863. 44
CPEWYEL oe Ao ela ea EP cc 17,022. 29
Mics ayo and Civil service... Gaseaes - oe des ys ck eee 4,925. 18
JRE 200 AS, Ae” (55. 58)
ceommimaiatiel audit fees. Wi.) tse as sath. ee ce ees 4, 600. 00
LOE N58) dod A Ae eo i 350. 00
Era fceemE MPI Re erect c 4%, loc 5 Sena sg, an Gok od eis CARTE 1, 768. 93
Buble teiations and fund raising feés..:.............600...-- 68, 637. 50
Preicemicumusmess Committeé............0...6. cues seen 45,371.92
CIGIEES 81) "2210 10.25 150, 000. 00
Paaueuralball-——-N.Y. World’s Fair..........60. 65250-00005 313.15
LADES ED SDS Eo a oh BOG 5 te le eae eee ecco eee Om ee neat Pie 1, 427. 50
“is OUTIL nc. ay AOS EN DM Bia eS ee am ry rere eS $432, 410. 37
es—allacated to Construction COStS.........6.0enceee cess (-39, 598. 76)
CHEER, ESSESTERS OS: Gg sea oa $392, 811. 61
he POSE CHATRASE CATR RE SPUR OE yuauyam
LigIH sa

OSH PMA (AA AEE: AP rE ay
my Ebi ee 4 RAO OF fs Tend) HOOARE fu
ie

t i a

hee dete Creiesas 4) it nomiqanyer Hee ulti
egyh. aii cea EE Srabhal erin bith
wr ; 50
be TORae oe aes nity" bane

“7 ’ AD Ph Met i eee

bh Foe al : pee

RE BED TO : ail

4 3 4 O-

BP ages t Bee ‘sitio aout
(HE Way eas A, AR PMI? 650.,.13 te eee
OO Veer watos. A . Meares, Ab, .. es
UD 028 . | eS

Le Bor A OPUL YE Uh Stra one tes na) 6
UESFSa Bs ie ae ei wadetec baler team £
Se STE Ae MMA cpr isss a

C0 GO 0! IM, CRANE ied RE

Ai
-

et ere cheat ehs eee bho: YB
Oe - Ve aha) iodeee wn. . en ee oS i
hope irwe Praia ean FU He eased HY

FE OTR ARERS yin i Oh oe aL ae OF He
(AT eBOAT CEA om. Cee IDM W ak Ly os BOO MOU IOTANGS CRE

1) Wipinetiwmticsectaguatpanoell Wrens rh phasor eA Sh

ty ae $8 ORS ates TF ni’, , » (penta Loe iw alles) ee lt “ ‘aah oy jabs
Ve ASS ME eS ‘

National Portrait Gallery

aif
i
.

»

National Portrait Gallery
CHARLES NAGEL, Director

The National Portrait Gallery Commission is composed of the
following members: Catherine Drinker Bowen, Julian P. Boyd, John
Nicholas Brown, Lewis Deschler, David E. Finley, Wilmarth Sheldon
Lewis, Richard H. Shryock, and Frederick P. Todd. Ex officio mem-
bers of the Commission are Chancellor of the Smithsonian Institution,
Earl Warren, Chief Justice of the United States; Director of the Na-
tional Gallery of Art, John Walker; and Secretary of the Smithsonian
Institution, S$. Dillon Ripley. The Commission met three times during
the fiscal year: on September 23, 1964, January 27, 1965, and May 19,
1965. The director also attended these meetings.

Final bids were received on the alteration of the Fine Arts and Por-
trait Gallery Building, and work on it began on December 31, 1964.
Happily, new construction is proceeding satisfactorily. The director
and Victor Proetz have been working on plans for the exhibition areas
that will be coordinated with the structural drawings prepared by
the architects.

In addition, John Frazer is pursuing a research project under con-
tract in the Frick Art Reference Library, and Mr. Proetz is under
similar contract for architectural studies of the exhibition areas of the
Gallery’s new building.

The staff of the Gallery is being augmented as rapidly as funds
permit and qualified personnel can be recruited. The director entered
on duty July 1, 1964. At the end of the year neither the position of
associate director nor that of historian-biographer had been filled,
but prospects seemed good for obtaining outstanding men for these
positions and for getting the archival programs of the Gallery organized
and underway. Staff members appointed during the year include
Robert G. Stewart, associate curator; William Walker, librarian;
Mrs. Shirley Harren, library assistant; Barnard Lebowitz, museum
aide; Mrs. Genevieve Kennedy, museum specialist; Jean T. Adamonis,
secretary; Carol Hutchinson and Barbara Bolling, clerk-typists.

Meanwhile, preparations are being made for a temporary gallery
in the Arts and Industries Building in which to display some of the
present holdings until such time as the move into the new building
is consummated.

During the year the director visited the National Portrait Galleries
of Dublin, Edinburgh, and London, where he found directors who

345
346 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965

were all most cordial and willing to share the benefits of their experi-
ence. He also visited the Historical Museum in Mexico City to study
the use of dioramas in connection with historical material.

During the year the accessions listed on pages 346-348 came as gifts
to the collections of the Gallery. Of these, the 34 likenesses transferred
to our collection by the National Gallery of Art as a gift from the late
Andrew Mellon constitute an outstandingly important accession during
the Gallery’s initial year of operation. An additional portrait of John
James Audubon by his son was the gift of the Avalon Foundation.
For other gifts, such as the portrait of John Jordan Crittenden by
George P. A. Healy from Silas B. McKinley and that of Charles Lee
from Mrs. A. D. Pollack Gilmour, the Gallery is particularly grateful.
These portraits come to us as gifts from descendents of the sitters, the
ideal but no longer, unfortunately, the usual way of objects being added
to the collections.

The four original drawings of Americans, a gift from the trustees of
the National Portrait Gallery of London, were particularly welcome
as evidence of the interest in our Gallery on the part of our great
precursor.

In addition, the archives has acquired nearly 20,000 portrait prints
through the Metropolitan Museum from the Joseph V. Reed Collection
and from the Robbins Print Collection.

PORTRAITS ACCEPTED BY THE NATIONAL PORTRAIT
GALLERY FOR FISCAL YEAR 1964-65

SUBJECT ARTIST DONOR
*Aubudon, John James John Woodhouse Au- Avalon Foundation
dubon
*Buchanan, James George P. A. Healy Andrew Mellon
*Calhoun, John Rembrandt Peale (att.) Andrew Mellon
*Clay, Henry John James Aubudon Andrew Mellon
(att.)
*Clay, Henry George P. A. Healy Andrew Mellon
*Clinton, DeWitt John Wesley Jarvis Andrew Mellon
Crittenden, John Jordan George P. A. Healy Mr. & Mrs. Silas
McKinley
Douglas, William Orville Oskar Stoessel David E. Finley
Eisenhower, Dwight John Groth Arnold Roston
David
*Eisenhower, Dwight Thomas E. Stephens Anonymous
David
Finley, David E. Oskar Stoessel David E. Finley

*Portraits transferred to the National Portrait Gallery from the National Gallery
of Art.
NATIONAL PORTRAIT GALLERY

347

PORTRAITS ACCEPTED BY THE NATIONAL PORTRAIT
GALLERY FOR FISCAL YEAR 1964-65—Continued

SUBJECT
Ford, Henry
*Forrestal, James Vincent
*Foster, Stephen
*Fuller, George

Greeley, Horace

*Harrison, Benjamin, Jr.
*Harrison, William Henry
Harte, Francis Bret

*Hawthorne, Nathaniel
*Hemingway, Ernest
*Howells, Mildred and
William Dean
*Howells, William Dean

*Jackson, Andrew
*Laurens, Henry
*Laurens, Henry

Lee, Charles

*Lincoln, Abraham
*Mac Veagh, Wayne
*Marshall, George C.
*Marshall, John
*McCloskey, John Car-
dinal

*Men of Progress
*Monroe, James

Moody, Dwight Lyman

*Moultrie, William
*Muir, John

Pershing, John J.
*Pierce, Franklin

*Pocahontas
Ripley, S. Dillon

ARTIST

H. Wollner
Albert K. Murray
Thomas Hicks
George Fuller

Thomas Nast

Charles Willson Peale
James Reid Lambdin
Sir Leslie Ward

Emanuel Leutze
Rene Bolz
Augustus Saint Gaudens

John Quincy Adams
Ward

Ralph E. W. Earl

John Singleton Copley

J. S. Copley (eng. by
Green)

Cephas Thompson

George P. A. Healy
Augustus Saint Gaudens
Thomas E. Stephens
James Reid Lambdin
George P. A. Healy

Christian Schussele
John Vanderlyn
Carlo Pellegrini

Charles Willson Peale
Edwin Keith Harkness

Leopold Seyfert
George P. A. Healy

British School
Robert White

DONOR

Henry Ford II

Anonymous

Andrew Mellon

Mrs. Augustus Vincent
Tack

Trustees, London
N.P.G.

Andrew Mellon

Andrew Mellon

Trustees, London
N-P.G.

Andrew Mellon

Anonymous

Miss Mildred Howells

Miss Mildred Howells

Andrew Mellon
Andrew Mellon
Andrew Mellon

Mrs. A. D. Pollack
Gilmour

Andrew Mellon

Eames MacVeagh

Anonymous

Andrew Mellon

Miss Elizabeth McClos-
key Cleary

Andrew Mellon

Andrew Mellon

Trustees, London
N.P.G.

Andrew Mellon

Miss Ione Bellamy
Harkness

Mr. and Mrs. Dudley
Cooper

Andrew Mellon

Andrew Mellon

S. Dillon Ripley

*Portraits transferred to the National Portrait Gallery from the National Gallery

of Art.
348 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965

PORTRAITS ACCEPTED BY THE NATIONAL PORTRAIT
GALLERY FOR FISCAL YEAR 1964-65—Continued

SUBJECT ARTIST DONOR
*Rochambeau, Comte de Joseph Desire Court Andrew Mellon
Roosevelt, Franklin D. Oskar Stoessel David E. Finley
Sankey, Ira David Carlo Pellegrini Trustees, London
N.P.G.
Stone, Harlan Fiske Oskar Stoessel David E. Finley
Thayer, Abbott Gladys Thayer Reasoner Roger C. Fenn
*Truman, Harry S. Augustus Vincent Tack Mrs. Augustus Vincent
Tack
*Tyler, John Jacob Eichholtz Andrew Mellon
*Washington, George Rembrandt Peale Andrew Mellon
*Webster, Daniel George P. A. Healy Andrew Mellon
*Whistler, James Abbott Sir Joseph Edgar Albert E. Gallatin
McNeil Boehm

*Portraits transferred to the National. Portrait Gallery from the National
Gallery of Art.

The National Portrait Gallery Commission, after some discussion,
came to the conclusion that fine color photographs would be the ideal
medium in which to present to the public the likenesses of the current
holders of office in the Cabinet, Supreme Court, Senate, and the House
of Representatives. Some 556 pictures at the present moment are
involved, and the project would probably cost about $85,000 with
the photographs framed. Once the project is completed it would
take relatively little in the way of funds to keep it up to date, and
those members of Government who were replaced would automatically
become part of the iconographical archive with new photographs
simply inserted in the frames to replace them. It was thought wise,
because of the uncertainties of the lasting qualities of color, that both.
a color and a black-and-white print of each photograph be supplied
for record purposes.

The Gallery is making a late start and consequently is at a disad-
vantage in the matter of securing what objects there are available.
Purchase funds for the National Portrait Gallery are a must under
present conditions and every effort should be made to obtain them from
both public and private sources. Funds are vitally necessary to get
important objects that suddenly come on the market, and the National
Portrait Gallery should be in a competitive position to obtain such
objects for its collection.

Meanwhile, all the portraits received from whatever source are
being checked to determine their condition and a conservation pro-
gram is being embarked upon which will include a number of new
frames.
NATIONAL PORTRAIT GALLERY 349

LIBRARY

During the year the library accessioned 40 titles for the Gallery,
17 of these having been obtained through exchange or gift. William
Walker, though a member of the staff for less than a year, is making
excellent progress in building up the joint library for both the National
Portrait Gallery and National Collection of Fine Arts. He is seeing to
it that books are assigned to each bureau according to its greater need
and that a minimum of duplication is involved. It should be kept in
mind that what is purchased for the National Collection of Fine Arts is
available to the National Portrait Galllery and vice versa. At present,
we have a small but most valuable reference library in our temporary
offices in the Arts and Industries Building.

At the May 1964 meeting, the Commissioners adopted the following
criteria for the Proposed Library Research and Publication Program
of the Gallery:

The Library research and publication program of the National Portrait
Gallery must be conceived in broad terms if the Gallery is to make significant
contributions to education.

To achieve this end, extensive biographical, archival, and iconographic
materials are essential, as is also a skilled and ample staff of librarians and
scholars who will engage in their own research as well as assist professional
visitors. Publication should also be provided for, since it is by publication that
the influence of the National Portrait Gallery will be most widely felt.

The persons represented in the Library by drawings, prints, and photographs
should be far more numerous than those represented in the Gallery and should
include relatively minor figures as well as those of national significance.
Biographical information on such figures should be assembled for the use of
qualified scholars.

If this program is carried out, the National Portrait Gallery will become a
national biographical and iconographical research center. Such a center
would include all standard reference works such as:

. General biographical dictionaries.
. Specialized dictionaries relating to regions, occupations, etc.
. Guides to and studies of biography as such.
. Critical and historical studies of American painting and other visual
arts.
5. National, state, and local histories.
6. Files of journals devoted to American histories (national, regional,
and state).
7. Guides to collections of American manuscripts.
8. Encyclopedias and bibliographies of American history.
9. American biographies and memoirs.
One of the Library’s tasks would be the establishment of a national union
catalogue of likenesses germane to the basic purposes of the National Portrait
Gallery in public and private possession.

-& © bo
350 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965

In closing I should like to quote from a letter written by Thomas
Carlyle to David Lang in 1854 concerning a project of a National
Exhibition of Scottish Portraits. It puts forward in powerful fashion
the need for and the value of the portrait and, where possible, accom-
panying documentation. To the searcher after truth in the study of
people who have made a significant contribution to the history and
culture of their country, collections of such material are invaluable.

In all my poor historical investigation it has been, and always is, one of the
most primary wants to procure a bodily likeness of the personage inquired after;
a good PORTRAIT, if such exists; failing that, even an indifferent if sincere one.
In short, any representation, made by a faithful human creature, of that Face
and Figure, which he saw with his own eyes, and which I can never see with
mine, is now valuable to me, and much better than none atall. This, which is
my own deep experience, I believe to be, in a deeper or less deep degree, the
universal one; and that every student and reader of History, who strives
earnestly to conceive for himself what manner of FACT and MAW this or the
other vague Historical NAME can have been will, as the first and directest
indication of all, search eagerly for a Portrait, for all the reasonable portraits
there are; and never rest till he have made out, if possible, what the man’s
natural face was like. Often . . . I have found that the Portrait was as a small
lighted candle by which the Biographies could for the first time be read, and
some interpretation made of them; the Biographical Personage no longer an
empty impossible Phantasm, or distracting aggregate of inconsistent rumors—
in which state, alas his usual one, he is worth nothing to anybody ... Next
in directness are a man’s genuine Letters, if he have left any, and you can read
them to the bottom; of course a man’s actions are the most complete and
indubitable stamp of him; but without these aids of Portraits and Letters, they
are in themselves so infinitely abstruse a stamp, and so confused by foreign
rumor and false tradition of them, as to be oftenest undecipherable with
certainty.

This letter, written more than 100 years ago with all the quaintness
of phrase, punctuation, and capitalization characteristic of a letter
written by a great author about a field where his competence could be
considered as no more than ancillary, is yet a definitive statement of
the value to scholars of the collections we are belatedly endeavoring to
assemble for the National Portrait Gallery in Washington.
Abraham Lincoln by George P. A. Healy. Oil on canvas, 74% X 54%
Gift of Andrew Mellon to the National Portrait Gallery.

Pri ice
als) Virgima

; pe ; rE t
¥ le od peta baphized i m hk Cy

Wife io the wor" M" Tho: Ko

Pocahontas, British School. Oil on canvas, 30 X 25 inches. Gift of Andrew
Mellon to the National Portrait Gallery.
Henry Laurens, attributed to John Singleton Copley. Oil on canvas, 54%
40% inches. Gift of Andrew Mellon to the National Portrait Gallery.
Henry Ford, by H. Wollner. Bronze bust, 16 inches high. Gift of the Henry
Ford Trade School Alumni Association to the National Portrait Gallery.

Radiation Biology Laboratory

¥
Radiation Biology Laboratory
W. H. Kein, Director

On February 16, 1965, the Radiation Biology Laboratory was estab-
lished out of the Division of Radiation and Organisms as an inde-
pendent unit separate from the Astrophysical Observatory and
reporting directly to the Secretary through the Assistant Secretary for
Science. The laboratory will continue its emphasis upon three general
areas: regulatory biology, solar radiation measurements, and carbon
dating. The specific areas of biological research pursued during the
year include mechanisms of control of regulatory responses by non-
ionizing radiation such as phototropism, photomorphogenesis, the
induction of photosynthetic activity, and the interaction of ionizing
radiation such as X-rays with synthetic and morphological systems.

A study has been completed of the composition of a water-soluble
chloroplast protein fraction extracted from etiolated bean leaves
greened in the presence and absence of chloramphenicol. The proteins
of the water-soluble chloroplast fraction were analyzed by assessing
the reaction to antisera of chloramphenicol treated and untreated
plastids, by column chromatography, and by zone electrophoresis on
acrylamide gel.

Chloramphenicol caused an accumulation of a water-soluble chloro-
plast protein fraction. This accumulation resulted from a decrease
in the amount of some proteins found in the water soluble fraction
and an increase in others. It had previously been found that chloram-
phenicol partially inhibited light-dependent formation of chloroplast
protein and lamellae. Therefore, it was concluded that chloram-
phenicol inhibited the formation of some protein needed for building
lamellae, resulting in accumulation in the soluble fraction of lamellar
protein whose synthesis is insensitive to chloramphenicol.

Experiments have been initiated to determine the effects of illumina-
tion on the ability of chloroplasts isolated from etiolated bean leaves
to synthesize proteins 2n vitro.

In the area of polyphosphate structure, model phosphorus compounds
such as trimetaphosphoimidate were chemically synthesized. Natural
polyphosphate and model compounds were compared as to hydrolysis
properties, infrared spectra, and phosphorus-to-nitrogen ratios.

353
789-427—66——35
354 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965

A study of the products of various chemical and enzymatic hydrolyses
of natural polyphosphates was concluded. The results indicated that
natural ‘‘polyphosphates” are really not linear phosphate anhydrides
and, therefore, are not true polyphosphates.

Polyphosphates were also isolated from uniformly C-labeled
Chorella cells and shown to be free from radioactivity. ‘Thus, for
the first time, the polyphosphate from Chorella has been shown to be
truly inorganic.

The study of the biochemical events occurring between an etiolated
plant’s first exposure to radiant energy and the manifestation of the
light-induced morphological changes has been continued. The
demonstration of the significant role of the endogenous reducing and
nonreducing sugars has led to a detailed study of the incorporation,
distribution, and utilization of exogenously supplied radioactive
substrate.

Glucose in solution applied to etiolated leaf tissue is incorporated
almost entirely as sucrose. In light-treated samples the primary
effect during the first few hours is an increased disappearance of
sucrose. However, after an extended dark development period, the
light response is reflected as loss of fructose. In general, results ob-
tained substantiated the fact that the photomorphogenic response is
dependent upon endogenous carbohydrate levels.

Of particular significance is the inverse relationship between the
disappearance of C™ from the ethanol soluble fraction and the accumu-
lation of C™* in the cellulosic residue. These changes were easily
determined during the first few hours following photomorphogenic
induction. Significant changes were also observed in the basic (amino
acids) and acidic (organic acids) fractions obtained through ion ex-
change techniques. Identification of the specific compounds involved
is now being pursued.

In vivo spectrophotometric measurements of the phytochrome pigment
controlling photomorphogenesis in 6-day-old dark grown bean seedlings
indicate that the disappearance of the active form of the pigment after
formation by red light is a pseudo second order reaction. Thus a plot
of the reciprocal of the pigment concentration versus time gives a
straight line. This fact allows for the interpolation and extrapolation
of pigment concentrations at any time after inductive exposures and
allows for the calculation of the amounts of inactive red-absorbing form
of the pigment present at any time. Such calculations indicate little or
no dark reversion of the 730-absorbing form to the 660-absorbing form
and very little, if any, dark synthesis of the 660-absorbing form.

A comparison of growth in three environmentally controlled areas,
with light quality the variable factor, indicates that the direction of
RADIATION BIOLOGY LABORATORY 355

change in day length has marked influences on physiological responses
in the day neutral plant, Black Valentine Bean. As day length increases
there is a pronounced increase in dry weight, stem elongation, number
of flowers and fruit set. These are reduced quite sharply with decreas-
ing day lengths even though the total day length is relatively long.
These differences in growth are most pronounced in the areas where
there are large amounts of far-red radiation present.

Data obtained from Wintex barley, a long-day plant, agrees with
the dry-weight determinations for bean, indicating the influence of
seasonal change in photosynthetic periods. Although the critical photo-
period for Wintex barley is 14.5 hours, flower induction occurs in older
plants planted in November when the maximum day length is 10.5
hours. Also plants grown under sources containing longer wavelengths
produce a marked increase in the number of elongated internodes as
compared with plants grown in the absence of longer wavelengths.
No significant differences have been observed between the different
environmental conditions for fresh weights of shoots and roots or
chlorophyll concentrations.

The light-sensitive sporangiophore of Phycomyces has been demon-
strated to respond to mechanical stimuli in much the same manner as
to light. After a pressure increase in the cell there is a decrease in
growth rate, and after a decrease in pressure there is an increase in
growth rate. The time course of these responses is the same as for the
light-induced growth responses. The interaction between the light-
and mechanically-induced responses is not yet known.

Near normal growth rates have been achieved in sporangiophores
immersed in aerated water in which the osmotic pressure is about 3.4
atmospheres using either glucose or inorganic salts. Using such an
aqueous system it was demonstrated that materials can be taken up
selectively by the light-sensitive growing zone, since the fluorescent dye
phloxine was incorporated only into the wall of the growing zone.
A number of other fluorescent dyes were examined, but none was
incorporated.

Approximately 100 samples of archeologic and geologic interest were
dated by carbon-14 techniques. A new system was developed for
quantitatively removing radon from samples by passing carbon dioxide
through an activated charcoal trap at —40°C. This method now
makes it possible to count radiocarbon samples immediately without
the 30- or 45-day delay which was previously necessary.

Water samples from the saline lake at the head of Antonette Bay,
Ellesmere Island, were analyzed, and the data indicate that the lake
was cut off from the fiord by glacial advance about 3,000 years ago.

A survey of marine deposits on the east coast between Washington,
356 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965

D.C., and Myrtle Beach, S.C., did not indicate that the sea was above
its present level in the last 50,000 years. The age of the Pamlico
formation is greater than 45,000 years.

Measurements of total sun and sky radiation have continued using
an automatic system sampling once every 3 minutes for 100 my band
widths throughout the visible. Because of slight variations in calibra-
tion constants indicated to be the result of the geometry of the standard
pyranometer, a new square receiver pyranometer was designed to
eliminate these variations. The total energy received upon a hori-
zontal surface varies markedly, with weather conditions as expected,
and spectral quality does change. For example, the energy received
for a series of days in the month of November varied from 343 langleys
for a clear day to 70 langleys for a cloudy day with some snow. Simi-
larly, the ratio of the 0.6—-0.7 micron band to 0.7-0.8 micron band
changed from 3.4 to 1.6.

OTHER ACTIVITIES

The laboratory staff participated in a number of scientific meetings
during the year.

In July Dr. Klein collaborated with representatives of the Division
of Biology and Medicine, U.S. Atomic Energy Commission, to deter-
mine the feasibility of making a prospective population genetics study
in Iceland; he also surveyed sites near Keflavik, Iceland, to evaluate
the possibility of establishing a field station for measuring solar radia-
tion in high northern latitudes. In August Dr. Klein attended the
Fourth International Photobiology Congress in Oxford, England, and
participated in a symposium on phytochrome research.

In June and July Dr. Shropshire consulted with investigators in
photobiology and biophysics at Gif-Sur-Yvette, Zurich, Tiibingen,
Freiburg, Eindhoven, Wageningen, Amsterdam, Copenhagen, Uppsala,
and Stockholm. During this trip he presented a lecture at Le Phyto-
tron, Gif-Sur-Yvette, entitled ““Phytochrome Controlled Responses”
and one at the Max-Planck Institut fiir Biologie, ‘Tubingen, entitled
“Light-Induced Biochemical Changes and High Intensity Range
Responses of Phycomyces.”’ In August he attended the Photobiology
Congress at Oxford and presented a symposium lecture, “‘Photoresponses
in Phycomyces Sporangiophores,”’ at the 10th International Botanical
Congress in Edinburgh.

In August the American Institute of Biological Sciences meeting in
Boulder, Colo., was attended by Dr. Correll, Mr. Edwards, Dr. Klein,
Dr. Loercher, Dr. Margulies, and Dr. Mitrakos. Dr. Correll presented
a paper on “‘Alkali-Stable RNA Fragments from Chlorella,” and Mr.
RADIATION BIOLOGY LABORATORY 357

Edwards and Dr. Klein presented recent data on ‘‘Relationship of
Phytochrome Concentration and Physiological Responses.”

Dr. Klein participated in the executive committee sessions of the
American Society of Plant Physiologists.

Mr. Harrison attended the Advanced Seminar for Scientific Glass-
blowers held in August at the State University of New York, Alfred,
N.Y:

In March Dr. Klein attended the meetings of the Solar Energy
Society in Phoenix, Ariz., and in April he was a participant in the
18th Annual Research Conference in Gatlinburg sponsored by the
Biology Division of the Oak Ridge National Laboratory.

Also in March Dr. Correll was invited to present a seminar, ““RNA
Polyphosphate in Algae,” to the Department of Botany, University of
California, Berkeley, and Dr. Shropshire was invited to present a
lecture on “Phycomyces Research” to the Department of Biology of
the University of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia.

In March Dr. Shropshire consulted with Dr. Cairns of the Cold
Spring Harbor Laboratory of Quantitative Biology to make arrange-
ments for cooperatively offering, with Dr. Dennison of Dartmouth and
Dr. Delbriick of the California Institute of Technology, an intensive
course to be supported by the National Science Foundation on sensory
physiology and the photoresponses of Phycomyces.

In April Dr. Correll attended the meetings of the American Chemical
Society held in Detroit, Mich., and Mr. Long attended the annual
meetings of the American Geophysical Society in Washington, D.C.

Dr. Margulies presented a paper entitled “‘Effect of Chloramphenicol
on Structure and Protein Composition of Bean Chloroplasts” to the
Washington Area Section of the American Society of Plant Physiolo-
gists, held at the University of Maryland in May.

Dr. Shropshire was an invited participant at the Thirtieth Cold
Spring Harbor Symposium on Quantitative Biology held in June on
sensory receptors.

In May Mr. Long visited the Lamont Geological Observatory in
Palisades, N.Y., to use their mass spectrograph for C'® analysis. He
also attended the carbon dating conference held at Washington State
University in June and presented a paper, ‘““Techniques of Methane
Preparation for Carbon Dating.”

STAFF CHANGES AND VISITING SCIENTISTS

Scientists who joined the staff during the year are Dr. Bernard Nebel,
plant physiologist, and Dr. Robert Rogers, cytogeneticist. Dr. Kon-
358 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965

stantinos Mitrakos, visiting plant physiologist from Athens, Greece,
and Dr. Adolf Steiner, visiting plant physiologist from the University
of Freiburg, continued their work on carbohydrate metabolism.

On June 30, 1965, the laboratory staff consisted of 33 persons.

PUBLICATIONS

CorrELL, Davw L. Sialic acid-containing glycopeptide from Chlorella.
Science, vol. 145, pp. 588-589, 1964.

Alkali-stable RNA fragments from Chlorella.
Phytochemistry, vol. 4, pp. 453-459, 1965.

LoERCHER, Lars, and LivErRMAN, JAMES L. Influence of cobalt on
leaf expansion and oxidative phosphorylation. Plant Physiol., vol.
39. pps 20-125. 1964.

Marcu res, Maurice M. Effect of chloramphenicol on light-depend-
ent synthesis of proteins and enzymes of leaves and chloroplasts of
Phaseolus vulgaris. Plant Physiol., vol. 39, pp. 579-585, 1964.

Relationship between red light mediated glyceraldehyde-3-
phosphate dehydrogenase formation and light-dependent develop-
ment of photosynthesis. Plant Physiol., vol. 40, pp. 57-61, 1965.

SHROPSHIRE, W., JR.; Kiern, W. H.; and Epwarps, J. L. Photomor-
phogenesis induced by flavin-mononucleotide fluorescence. Physiol.
Plantarum, vol. 17, pp. 676-682, 1964.

Science Information Exchange

wetiiige Viliae: mire airy Eire aa

Ww ; . iu Pt Vist ‘ avi T\} oy Ui reves a J)
ba 4 Phe 7 i t a pies.

Teer err ey bigeeotny ated

: ; mn

yi
J we
b hig SNE t ie { ah }
taeti i (oo. Toes
- : THs) . * ey 4 "
Lomo Sorte dR. NOMSATTON SOE
et era aR PCL CAMS EE RE RPE I Pare adr a
; ‘ic

Science Information Exchange
Monroe E. FREEMAN, Director

The Science Information Exchange (SIE) receives, organizes, and
disseminates information about scientific research in progress. Its
mission is to assist the planning and management of research activ-
ities supported by Government and non-Government agencies and
institutions by promoting the exchange of information that concerns
subject matter, distribution, level of effort, and other data pertaining
to current research in the prepublication stage. It helps program
directors and administrators to avoid unwarranted duplication and
to determine the most advantageous distribution of research funds.
It serves the entire scientific community by informing individual
investigators about who is currently working on problems in their
special fields.

The Exchange is concerned only with research actually in progress
in order to cover the 1- to 3-year information gap between the time
a research project is proposed or started and the time the results
become generally available in published form. Thus, the Exchange
complements, rather than duplicates, the services of technical libraries
and established documentation centers.

Information is received by the Exchange from all available sources,
specifying who supports a research task, who does it, where it is being
done, and a 200-word technical summary of what is being done.
These basic data are cast into a one-page record, the Notice of Re-
search Project (NRP), that serves as the major input and output of
the Exchange. These records are analyzed, indexed, processed, and
stored in computer and manual files in such a way that a wide variety
of questions about any of these items or any combination of items can
be quickly retrieved or compiled.

The acquisition of research task records and the output of infor-
mation services have continued to increase throughout the year.
Registration of unclassified research by the Federal agencies is now
approaching comprehensive proportions with registration including
more than 95 percent of all federally sponsored research in the life,
medical, biological, agricultural, and behavioral sciences, and with
more than 60 percent of basic research in the physical sciences. Inter-
est and participation by non-Federal research groups have shown a

361
362 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965

slow but steady increase particularly in state programs in agricul-
ture, natural resources, and conservation, a trend that will probably
continue over the years for these relatively smaller and widely scat-
tered research programs. A number of associations, widely varying
in scope, such as the American Sociological Society and the American
Chemical Society’s Petroleum Research Fund, have arranged for
increased input and participation. Discussions with many others
are under way.

The demand for information services, on the other hand, has increased
substantially, rising from 34,000 information requests in fiscal year
1964 to an estimated 43,000 in 1965. Especially significant has been
an increasing demand from Federal agencies for the retrieval and
organization of research records covering broad fields of national
interest, such as all current research on water resources, pesticides,
and oceanography, or the organization of records covering broad
agency programs. About 18 of these major tasks involving the scien-
tific staff and data-processing specialists have been completed or are in
various stages of planning and development, compared with 6 such com-
pilations in 1964. These compilations, such as the Water Resources
Research Catalog, are often published and widely disseminated by the
sponsoring agency. In connection with this particular catalog, SIE
was designated by the President, in October 1964, as the national
cataloging center for current and projected scientific research in all
fields of water resources.

The expanding services of SIE have been noted and commended
in the past year by the President’s report, War on Waste; in the report
of the Select Committee on Government Research, House of Repre-
sentatives; and by Senator Clinton P. Anderson in reference to the
Water Resources Research Catalog. Recognizing that the comprehensive
collection of current research records serves little purpose unless used
to the maximum by scientists and engineers throughout the scientific
community, SIE has made increasing efforts to make these services
known and available to all eligible and potential users. More than
60 articles, news notes, and briefings about SIE have been presented
to scientific groups or published in a wide variety of scientific journals.
Thirty thousand descriptive brochures were distributed, mostly on
request. An information exhibit was set up at the national meeting
of the Association for Clinical Research. Over the year, almost 800
visitors came to SIE to study and explore its programs, including
35 visitors from foreign countries.

An increased interest in SIE has been exhibited by many foreign
visitors, especially in regard to the future possibility of exchange
arrangements. This has been seconded by a rising interest from
SCIENCE INFORMATION EXCHANGE 363

American agencies whose research interests and responsibilities do not
necessarily stop at international boundaries.

As a result of a 2-year program to increase efficiency and economies,
substantial savings over anticipated needs have been realized. Al-
though workloads generally increased in some activities as much as
20 to 25 percent, the total staff was increased by only 2}; percent
while nonprofessional personnel decreased from 115 to 108. In illus-
tration of the effectiveness of new systems, the registration cost of
70,000 projects was reduced 16 percent, the registration cost of
research proposals was reduced 50 percent, and the production cost
of investigator reports was reduced 20 percent over fiscal year 1964.

In addition to the continued effort to improve its present system,
SIE is conducting a number of studies of more general relevancy to
the field of information. From the vantage point of a current aware-
ness program unique in terms of breadth of science areas covered,
experience, and methods of approach, SIE professional staff were
engaged in the systematic study of the following problems:

1. The use of current scientific research information for adminis-
trative purposes.

2. The evaluation of performance in retrieval by cooperative
study with participating Federal programs.

3. The development of new indexing systems for publication pur-
poses as program management tools, also of value at the bench
level.

4. Information yield as a function of the depth of indexing.

5. The study of education and experience requirements for the
recognition of scientific content and context.

6. The economics of computer storage and retrieval, as part of
a broader study on optimal combinations of human and
computer resources.
.
ae TOMAR MOTTAN a EME Apu ata

Hom ohyaniiigt: nodeox has, Ratalnictlo nS te aeO ett
be si a) oe vataetunce, Lacan Remoter tas
ob osinaro?’ + LE = gonaiattis eh rath sn mater etek ae Aw eh
rbAk), dbasilaas seer aes yboan. Pokecio aie. tan hate
BE 0 FAIA CA PRTC, COR: at bee esnge) sae
SnD A Se MIAO» Yat heagmond akweeade Lehr: eld all Bf .
amsleoh: Od, order? mort bsranigob sina aaitibi ingen al Bit
doe tepaneeheeaey an inadeva wan io eons wwioshs Say
lors trod. tot SeiIoR Oelh ci Maagy OT be canbe itt
$20 ccobomlx qin bonny ,feeoo nag AR Ie aay aacobe slgeckae
ACL seen dooal-rwvo. caagieg, OS bon bor. ame eas

snpiaye dane iq. Ba owo wp) OF Holy howe atin
ot yaravoles Lermaepypmncn dio, eatbine te ninged Bote
SAW Ii aro 6 10) SEL Wr Fi) DEY seit niot, etn 2
HII OA) AGI soning 1d,.< baad hor ering bi OME

pray. G3 Be Lgaaize: homqud iA ulsaamian: Wr outs
arandow Rah Gulch ont te ybel? CBatoe

smile be 102 cui creae PAKS snide pases ae ‘a a

i } e eon eile
SWifa tendo yc | fWeAST Me Seca they 480 sie
PO THN OEY eee tae bet inaisient oem

uney Holi ql SeioleetiebHE won 19a ols
revi oe 18 sates oui soo dgunan inti ite

tics Verh ak

spaebind te ites Silt To 2OiHY a GR" rer. Sf

ee
vals Ts) a aasnesiupe iggnsiadns “bad oii oars ‘ Sebi:

ot <<) CO mShHOd Bis aS TAOS SAN Aisa Ve ton
wise se CAVoRYeP Dap Sots 107 Hothsepethcs' $a" eo tense
bie *nsiinl Yo eotsnidinbs Ls: mage oe bia Seo

igs Mele Sta Ate; Te © msi
woe thee Ok er bin. ey a hey ei Le ‘tats Gy he
isan ty aang ak at bite 4 DE ie BG erie y:
sitiCce. cw acces Wl. OIA RL PLY? UF xe er have ie
ith OOM fyi rye) OM i hig 15a 1 WSN AL py eat aah ine he J
Phirty iboapent: eet Aes TCE SES, due ae 7

te A lefGera errant on hi wad bot Wee thee

of tye duecwation las Cian, worn, ‘wer iN aa

visite Bits | ten, BEER ute solar mad: PION, ihe: f 4
Sivjat Gun irra aon penne behets yeh a ae
a prereeancd intent Sua SUM Bias renee | tar

ile Seana omnia: ih Pegeghaee ube Rute:

ahaa Ae ek: Heap Ltn *,

National Armed Forces Museum
Advisory Board

pana & eee isang ids
basodl ViosivbA
National Armed Forces Museum Advisory Board
Joun H. Macruper III, Director

At its fourth meeting, on January 12, 1965, the National Armed
Forces Museum Advisory Board recommended to the Board of Regents
that—

1. The Smithsonian Institution’s facilities be expanded under the
provisions of Public Law 87-186 to include a National
Armed Forces Museum.

2. Provisions be made in a reorganization plan of the President
or by legislation to transfer to the Smithsonian Institution
such authority as is necessary to enable it to administer and
maintain Fort Washington as a site for the National Armed
Forces Museum.

3. The Smithsonian Institution be directed by legislation to
pursue the planning, development, and construction of a
National Armed Forces Museum and that such sums be
appropriated by the Congress to the Smithsonian Institution
as may be necessary for these purposes.

These recommendations were based on a detailed study completed
by the Advisory Board with the assistance of its coordinating staff,
headed by Col. John H. Magruder III, U.S. Marine Corps. Later
in the year the Board’s study was published under the title A Study
Relating to the Establishment of a National Armed Forces Museum (Smith-
sonian Publication 4611).

On January 28, 1965, the Board of Regents approved the foregoing
recommendations subject to the condition that the legislation to be
sought would authorize only the planning of a National Armed Forces
Museum, not construction, at this time. The Board of Regents
further approved the submission of a request for an initial appro-
priation not to exceed $100,000 for planning. Subsequently, the
Smithsonian Institution, in compliance with the provisions of Public
Law 87-186, undertook preliminary consultations with the Commis-
sion of Fine Arts, the National Capital Planning Commission, and the
General Services Administration, preparatory to submitting formal
recommendations to the Congress with respect to the establishment
of a National Armed Forces Museum and the acquisition of a site.

Throughout the year the staff of the National Armed Forces Museum
Advisory Board carried on negotiations with various agencies of the
Armed Forces and the General Services Administration in regard to

367
368 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965

the transfer to the Smithsonian Institution of military and naval
objects appropriate for the collections of the proposed National Armed
Forces Museum. As a result, a numerous and most varied assortment
of objects was added to the collections. For example, there were
acquired from the Department of the Army two now-rare Model
1903 6-inch coast defense guns complete with disappearing carriages;
from the Department of the Navy a 5-inch deck gun with fire-control
equipment from the World War II submarine U.S.S. Scabbardfish;
from the U.S. Marine Corps the prototype of the M50 ONTOS
self-propelled antitank vehicle; and from the General Services Admin-
istration a valuable series of wind tunnel models used in the develop-
ment of the U.S. Army Nike Ajax and Nike Hercules guided missiles.
Among objects designated for eventual transfer to the Smithsonian,
the Department of the Army, with the cooperation of the Depart-
ment of Defense, set aside a most comprehensive array of components
of the Nike Ajax, Lacrosse, Corporal, Redstone, and SS—10 missile
systems. :

The staff, in cooperation with the Smithsonian Library, continued
to acquire from Armed Forces historical agencies and elsewhere
numerous publications in the field of military and naval history, to
serve as a nucleus of the study center library of the National Armed
Forces Museum.
Smithsonian Museum Service

VAN

Gay

Pa

789-427— 66—— 36
A ‘ fea w
: i 7 +
; TN Fas hy A 1 PRYAAS }
4
we eae ? Le } vs % i he
% 4
ha 4 ue k
\
P f, ari H j ye > ]
guiten 5 OB) the .
# ‘i } € i
Vos
ea i
k ' , 7
/ F
|
ag
iNet eh f
i i 7 1
‘
yh ‘ / re my
ep ere ae . Ww Peg ee
OPM NFS a ETE PEAY GE PIS
t . mi) } i ’ } 4 : 4 La ” ‘i ’ see Fi
vy -

o nyt a ,
os Cian Pik) Me

Smithsonian Museum Service
G. Carroii Linpsay, Curator

The Smithsonian Museum Service expanded both the variety and
quantity of its services in accepting the challenge of serving the
nearly 19 million visitors who came to the Smithsonian in fiscal 1965.
Moving forward at a quickened pace, the Smithsonian Museum Ser-
vice established new programs designed to interest a public growing
more knowledgeable and sophisticated each year.

One of the most successful new programs was a series of free film pres-
entations, known as the Smithsonian Free Film Theater. The Theater
presents unusual films that are entertaining as well as educational.
Showing is augmented by brief introductory remarks from noted scien-
tists and specialists whose work often is seen in the films. The enormous
response to this new program from museum visitors is further proof of
the great potential of the Smithsonian as a practitioner of the special
art of museum education. This program was organized and operated
by audiovisual specialist Mary Ann Friend and Mrs. Linda Gordon,
docent in zoology.

The Smithsonian Museum Service continued its role of interpreting,
through various educational media, the work and collections of the
Smithsonian in the fields of science, history, and art.

For the eleventh consecutive year the Junior League of Washington
continued its volunteer docent program, conducting school classes
from the greater Washington area through the Smithsonian. The
program was carried out through the cooperation of G. Carroll Lindsay,
curator of the Smithsonian Museum Service, with Mrs. Arnold B.
McKinnon, chairman of the League’s docent committee, and Mrs.
Joseph Smith, Jr. co-chairman. Mrs. Smith will serve as chairman for
the forthcoming year, with Mrs. Gilbert Grosvenor as co-chairman.

During the 1964-65 school year 33,821 children were conducted on
1,161 tours, an increase of over 50 percent above the preceding year’s
participation.

Tours were conducted for grades 3 through 6 in the Halls of Every-
day Life in the American Past, Mammals, Indians and Eskimos, Native
Peoples of the Americas, and Textiles, and for grades 5 through
junior high school, in the Halls of Gems and Minerals, and Prehistoric
Life. The resumption this year of tours in the popular Early American

orl
572 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965

Hall, now in the Museum of History and Technology, alone accounted
for 13,016 children participating in 438 tours.

Tours were conducted from October 12, 1964, through May 28,
1965. This year, tours were able to proceed during the month of
April, with the aid of compact portable amplifiers which enabled the
docent to be heard even when the hall was massively crowded with
tourists.

In addition to Mrs. McKinnon and Mrs. Smith, the members of the
League’s guided tour committee were: Mrs. Roger Block, Mrs.
Thomas A. Bradford, Jr.. Mrs. Reginald Bragonier, Mrs. Keith A.
Carr, Mrs. Challen E. Caskie, Mrs. Thomas R. Cate, Mrs. C. A.
Child, Mrs. F. David Clarke, Mrs. Steven Conger, Mrs. Phillip
Dearborn, Mrs. Henry M. deButts, Mrs. James L. Dooley, Mrs.
Robert T. Foley, Mrs. George Gerber, Mrs. Gilbert Grosvenor, Mrs.
Franklin Hart, Mrs. William Henry, Mrs. Scott Heuer, Mrs. Walter M.
Johnson, Jr., Mrs. Vernon Knight, Mrs. Lansing Lamont, Mrs.
James H. Lefeaver, Miss Robbin Liggett, Mrs. Dickson R. Loos,
Mrs. James Mailliard, Mrs. John Manfuso, Jr., Mrs. Ernest May,
Mrs. H. Roemer McPhee, Jr., Mrs. James E. Miller, Mrs. William
Minshall, Jr., Mrs. R. Kendall Nottingham, Mrs. Edward Outlaw,
Mrs. Jack Osburn, Jr., Mrs. Robert Point, Mrs. L. Edgar Prina,
Mrs. W. James Sears, Mrs. E. Tilman Stirling, Mrs. William R.
Stratton, Mrs. Charles Turner, Mrs. John 8S. Voorhees, Mrs. Richard
Wallis, Mrs. Keith Wheelock, Mrs. Mark White, and Mrs. Kennedy
Wilson.

The Institution values most highly the proficient endeavors of
these volunteers. Their services to the schools of the Washington
area do much to make the Smithsonian museums effective educational
resources.

The staff of the Museum Service also provided tours of the exhibits
for a large number of individuals and groups. These tours for visitors
from all over the United States as well as abroad were given in a foreign
language for those who were unfamiliar with English. Among the
many distinguished visitors were Her Royal Highness Princess Christina
of Sweden and Her Royal Highness Princess Benedikte of Denmark.

In addition to offering such services as tours, members of the staff of
the Museum Service gave lectures to groups both at the Smithsonian
and outside.

To assist the large number of museum visitors, the Museum Service
maintained information aides at the entrances of the museum buildings
during the summer. About 100 young men from the National Capitol
Council of Churches’ Neighborhood Youth Corps assisted with this
activity, as did a local Girl Scout troop.
SMITHSONIAN MUSEUM SERVICE 373

The Audioguide system in the Museum of Natural History continued
in operation, offering visitors general as well as detailed information
about the exhibits, through tape-recorded lectures.

Mrs. Linda Gordon, docent in zoology, and Mrs. Marjorie Halpin,
docent in anthropology, responded to requests for services and informa-
tion in their special fields. They also assisted members of the scientific
staff with the training of the Junior League volunteer guides, and
prepared bibliographies for use in responding to inquiries from the
public. Mrs. Gordon, in conjunction with her responsibilities to the
Free Film Theater, wrote several film reviews. Mrs. Halpin wrote and
revised information leaflets and prepared a manuscript for an illustrated
booklet on George Catlin’s Indian paintings.

Audiovisual programs continued under the direction of Mary Ann
Friend, the audiovisual specialist. A large number of slides were sold
or lent to individuals and groups for educational purposes. Photo-
graphs and films also were distributed in the same manner. These
audiovisual aids are provided as educational aids to persons who are
not able to visit the Smithsonian. Many slides and photographs also
were used by various communications media to publicize the work and
activities of the Smithsonian.

The second edition of the Brief Guide to the Museums in the Washington
Area was published. Reproductions of two paintings by Stuart Davis
were published in conjunction with the Stuart Davis Memorial
Exhibition.

Many publications interpreting the exhibits were made available at
the Museum Shops, and visitors may browse at shops in the Museum
of History and Technology, Museum of Natural History, and the Arts
and Industries Building. Each area emphasizes self-service to allow
visitors the greatest freedom in making their selections. In addition to
publications, reproductions of objects in the collections are available,
and prints, slides, and postcards also are sold.

During the past year receptions were held in connection with openings
of temporary exhibits and halls, presentations, and on other special
occasions. —The Museum Service arranged for the preparation of
invitations, for the greeting and directing of guests, for catering services,
and for other related functions. Among the important special events
was a luncheon for the Medal of Freedom recipients which was held at
the Smithsonian in conjunction with the inauguration of the President
of the United States. Particular attention was given also to details of
special meetings and conferences held here.

The Urban Service Corps, as in the past, held several summer sessions
at the Smithsonian. Mrs. Linda Gordon organized the classes at the
museums, providing speakers, films, and tours.
374 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965

Members of the staff made trips to various cities to attend and
participate in conferences, seminars, and scholarly sessions, to confer
on and to observe sales and audiovisual operations, and to study and
discuss museum connoisseurship.

William Grayson, consultant on television, film, and radio broad-
casting, worked on programs to expand the Smithsonian’s use of the
mass media of broadcasting and film. Under his supervision, broad-
cast coverage increased, and groundwork was laid for further activity
in this area. Arrangements also were made for radio and television
coverage of Smithsonian exhibits and events, and special announce-
ments of such events were sent to a large number of radio and television
stations.

The Museum Service also prepared a monthly Calendar of Events
of lectures, concerts, and temporary exhibits at the Smithsonian.
Notices of these events were sent to newspapers, magazines, and other
publications. In the spring the format of the Calendar was revised
to facilitate mailing and to make the Calendar serve as an official invi-
tation to the public to attend Smithsonian activities.

Mrs. Paul Scott made a study of a membership program for the
Smithsonian. She visited other museums and spoke and corresponded
with persons well known for their work in this area. Her report
encompassed not only operation of such a program but also activities
and publications offered to the members—activities and publications
designed to attract further interest in the Institution.
Smithsonian Institution Library
Ae

y ; . Pn . Ne ta , Ni un . ou
visidia: sorminent tare Li ion
\ ' yi Ri 9 er Paty, rl ) . he ,

s

- ~ oe
: a hee }
2
|

oS eee
=?)

+
ie ONT | “
™ Seeds e AN ad
r ee ee ’ ae

ce
‘

Mere

ra
1
Smithsonian Institution Library
Mary A. HurFrer, Acting Librarian

During the year emphasis has been placed upon improving services
and strengthening the collections. The Library Committees have been
active in advising and assisting the Library in formulating an acquisi-
tions policy. During the summer a physical count and analysis of all
materials under the Library’s jurisdiction was made. For the first time
in many years there is an accurate picture of the size and distribution
of the various collections under the Library’s administration, as well
as the degree of bibliographic control exercised over them. Over
the years the book collections have been acquired and added to the
Library but never fully classified or cataloged, even though in some
instances they are among the most heavily used and valuable portions
of the Library’s collections. Although the Library has maintained an
active weeding program, it has not always counted the discarded or
transferred material or adjusted the statistics. A summary of the data
from the count is given in table 1; the official count given in table 2
in the Summarized Statistics at the end of this report excludes all
material not fully classified and cataloged, and all unbound pieces of
serial material. Trade catalog literature and technical reports,
because of the special manner in which they are processed, are listed
separately. The official count will quickly climb back to the level of
totals previously reported, as the partially cataloged and classified
materials are processed in the reclassification program.

TasLtE 1.—SUMMARY COUNT OF LIBRARY MATERIALS CATA-
LOGED AND UNCATALOGED*, SEPTEMBER 1964

Cataloged Uncataloged Totals

Dulas TSS OE oe Ebi on. ane wees cay eo 88, 921 104, 028 192, 949
Sertallsa(DOuUn icssrpcta cc: cc's oie oie suse sis c.6 ere 85, 312 45, 506 130, 818
Sermaly (unbound) 6). 20808 tke ce Se 19, 738 22, 444 42, 182
Mvade Statalogstis,. oO ea tindens 2 3, 923 216, 241 220, 164
weehnicalReports: . 5. . - .cristieeiscta eles S QOD SE cars anal s, <2- 8, 000

MOtalsit Pence okie eee oe ease 205, 894 388, 219 594,113

*Partially cataloged material was counted as uncataloged for purposes of this survey.
**By estimated number of bound volumes.

789-427— 66: 37 377

378 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965

Of major significance was the decision in March to begin to classify
all incoming materials according to the Library of Congress classi-
fication scheme and start a divided catalog. A full-scale reclassification
program is planned as soon as staff becomes available; in the meantime,
however, materials handled under this new system are moving appreci-
ably faster through the cataloging process and into the hands of the user.
Another significant development was the work begun in the acquisitions
section to make use of the IBM 1440 computer in all applicable phases
of its work. Coding and programing have proceeded to the point
where early in fiscal 1966 all accounting and ordering procedures
concerning monographic materials will be handled by the computer.
Studies are continuing within the Library concerning possible future
computer applications.

After the creation of the Smithsonian Office of Anthropology in
March 1964, Mary L. Horgan, who had been appointed Bureau of
American Ethnology librarian in September, was designated librarian
of the newly created Smithsonian Office of Anthropology Branch
Library. She has spent a considerable amount of time planning the
consolidation and move of the former Bureau of American Ethnology
and Department of Anthropology libraries into new quarters on the
third floor of the Natural History Building.

Material submitted this year for translation on the Special Foreign
Currency Science Information Program, formerly called the P.L. 480
translation program, consisted of 5 volumes in Russian, totaling 3,119
pages. Translation of several important sets is gradually being effected:
G. P. Dement’ev’s Birds of the Soviet Union, 6 volumes, and S. I.
Osgnev’s Mammals of USSR and Adjacent Countries, 9 volumes, each
lack only 1 volume to be submitted for completion of the set. Four
volumes of the 30-volume Flora USSR are in process or finished and
progress is being made on other sets. At present there is a list of
164 volumes totaling over 63,000 pages, requested by Smithsonian
research staff, waiting for translation from Russian into English.

An event which will continue to have great impact on the Library
was the establishment within the past year of the Federal Library
Committee to improve coordination and planning among research
libraries of the Federal Government. The acting librarian is serving
on the Task Force on Acquisition of Library Materials and Correlation
of Federal Library Resources of this committee.

As an additional service and aid to keep staff members informed
of all newly acquired materials, the Library began on October 31 to
issue on a biweekly basis a new-book list. ‘Twenty-three lists have
been issued to date.
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION LIBRARY 379

While its primary purpose is service to the Museum staff, the Library
has become over the years an important center of research for other
scholars and students. During the past year numerous visitors from
throughout the United States and the world came to use the Library’s
facilities and to seek the help of its staff.

During fiscal 1965 the reference staff contributed and assisted in
the construction of the Central Pacific Reference File. This file,
patterned on the concept used in organizing the Human Relations
Area Files, came about in response to the need of the staff on the
Pacific Program to have ready access to all the information that could
be located in domestic and foreign sources on a group of islands in
the Pacific Ocean for which an intensive biological survey is under way.
The file is proving to be a time saver for the scientist. One scholar
came half way around the world to see the wonderful tool that had
responded so promptly and well to his query for information.

BRANCH LIBRARIES

Trade-catalog literature of approximately 200,000 volumes received
from Columbia University was unpacked and placed on shelves, and
later in the year the trade-catalog collection from the Baker Library,
Graduate School of Business Administration, Harvard University, was
processed (2,573 pieces) and made available. The addition of these
two collections to the trade-catalog literature already held by the
Institution makes the Smithsonian Library holdings in this field most
comprehensive if not preeminent. The Library is grateful to the
Columbia and Harvard Libraries for their gifts. In January the
installation of a Xerox 914 machine in the Museum of History and
Technology Branch Library led to improved and speedier service.

The Patent Office Library continued to be generous in transferring
valuable back files of serials and materials for historical research to the
Museum of History and Technology Branch Library. The outstand-
ing item in the transfer this year is the Académie des Sciences’ Descrip-
tion des Arts et Méters (Paris, 1761-89, 45 vols.), one of two complete
sets in existence.

On October 18, 1964, after 12 years during which there was no
full-time librarian, William B. Walker was appointed librarian of the
National Collection of Fine Arts/National Portrait Gallery Branch
Library. The most important aspects of renewed activity during the
year have been the addition of a second staff member, the library
assistant, in January 1965, and the move of the library collection to
more spacious and attractive quarters in April.
380 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965

The Entomology Branch Library has been without a librarian since
A. James Spohn’s transfer to the Central Reference Staff in October.
Carl J. Drake presented to the Library his personal collection of approx-
imately 1,000 books plus assorted journals and reprints, mainly on
Hemiptera, which he collected over a span of more than 50 years.

STAFF ACTIVITIES AND CHANGES

Ruth E. Blanchard, librarian of the Smithsonian for the past 7 years,
was appointed special assistant to the Secretary for Library of Congress
and Smithsonian matters on November 16, 1964.

Mrs. Mary A. Huffer was designated acting librarian, and Jean
Chandler Smith transferred from the Department of the Interior
Library on January 18, 1965, to become assistant librarian. Mrs.
Mary C. Quinn was appointed to the new position, secretary to the
librarian, on February 21, 1965.

Janet Dickson, chief of the catalog section since October 1959,
transferred to the Library of the Department of Health, Education, and
Welfare on November 21, 1964. Clarice M. Barker has been acting
chief of the catalog section since that time. Mrs. Vija Karklins was
appointed senior cataloger in April 1965 to replace Mrs. E. C. Bach-
rach, who transferred to the National Agricultural Library in Decem-
ber. Mrs. Angeline Ashford was appointed junior cataloger in
February to fill the vacancy created when Salavador Waller left to
become librarian at the D.C. General Hospital in January. Mrs.
Maria Bazylewicz transferred in April 1965 from the section of numis-
matics in the Museum of History and Technology to fill the position
of library assistant. Carol B. Boyd was appointed library assistant
on September 9, 1964.

In the reference and circulation section the following staff changes
took place during the past year: Mrs. Gloria Mauney resigned August
28, 1964, after being with the library for 9 years, to take a position with
the D.C. School System. A. James Spohn, entomology librarian, was
detailed part time.and later transferred full time to the Central Library
reference staff. Mrs. Sue Chen was appointed on August 15, 1964, to
the newly created position of reference librarian. Thomas Harper
was appointed on June 27, 1965, as loan-desk librarian to replace
Thomas Wilding, who had transferred to the acquisitions section.

Mildred D. Raitt was promoted to assistant chief of the acquisitions
section on February 28, 1965. Mrs. Shirley S. Harren transferred to
the National Collection of Fine Arts/National Portrait Gallery staff
on January 3, 1965, and, to fill the vacancy thus created, Thomas
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION LIBRARY 381

Wilding was made exchange librarian on March 28, 1965. Mrs,
Jeannette L. Mills was appointed clerk-typist on September 5, 1964.
All the vexing problems associated with so many personnel changes
and vacancies, as can be seen from reading the above, have plagued
the Library during the past year.

The staff continued to attend special courses and seminars for growth
and development. Participation was active in professional organiza-
tions and in attendance at the annual conferences of the Special
Libraries Association and American Library Association.

The following papers by staff members of the Library appeared in
various journals:

Goopwin, JAcK S., compiler.
Current Bibliography in History and Technology (1963). Technology and
Culture, 6: 346-374, 1965.
SMITH, JEAN CHANDLER.
Bibliography on the Metabolism of Endoparasites Exclusive of Arthropods,
1951-1962. Experimental Parasitology 16: 236-290, 1965.

NOTABLE GIFTS, FISCAL YEAR 1965

Académie des sciences, Paris. Descriptions des arts et métiers faites approuvées
par messieurs de ?Académie. 1761-89. 45 vols. Transfer from Patent
Office Library.

Blatchley, Willis S. On the coleoptera known to occur in Indiana. 1910, from
Mrs. Lewis H. Weld, Arlington, Va.

Breeskin, Adelyn D. The graphic work of Mary Cassatt; a catalogue raisonné.
N.Y., 1948. Gift of the author.

Brewster, David. The life of Sir Isaac Newton. 1831, and 33 other volumes
on engineering, art, history, and many other subjects, from Mrs. Carolyn
Edwards, Glen Echo, Md.

Brinkley F. The art of Japan. 2 vols. 1901, from Mrs. Herbert Campbell,
Washington, D.C.

Bushell, Stephen W. Chinese art. 1914, from Mrs. Herbert Campbell.
Washington, D.C.

A collection of about 2,573 trade catalogs, post 1900, from the Baker Library,
Harvard University, Graduate School of Business Administration.

A collection of catalogs, covering about 400 different concerns, primarily
heating and plumbing, filling about 75 linear feet of shelf space and number-
ing in the thousands, from Clifford T. L. Cryer, Denville, N.J., and
John Gordon L. Cryer, Newark, N.J.

A collection of eleven books on covered bridges from Mrs. Samuel Reed,
Peoria, Ill.

A collection of 79 books on numismatics of the 17th, 18th, and 19th centuries
from Dr. and Mrs. Vladimir Clain-Stefanelli, Washington, D.C.

A collection of yearbooks, handbooks, and journals on various sports, numbering
about 1,000 from the estate of Stephen Mahoney. Gift of Mrs. Stephen
Mahoney, Washington, D.C.
382 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965

Comstock, John N. The wings of insects. 1918, from Mrs. Lewis H. Weld,
Arlington, Va.

du Pont and allied families. 1965, from Pierre S. du Pont, Wilmington, Del.

Goldwater, Barry Morris. The face of Arizona. 1964, from Senator Barry M.
Goldwater, Scottsdale, Ariz.

Hattori, H. Myxomycetes of Nasu District. Revised edition, 1964, from Em-
peror Hirohito through the Ambassador of Japan to the United States.

Hirohito, Emperor of Japan. Flora Nasuensis, additions and emendations.
1963, from Emperor Hirohito through the Ambassador of Japan to the
United States.

Kalakaua. The legends and myths of Hawaii, edited by R. M. Daggett.
1888, from Mrs. Herbert Campbell, Washington, D.C.

Ketterer, Roman Norbert. 6 catalogs of contemporary art. Gift of the author.
Lugano, Switzerland.

National Society of Colonial Dames of America. Delaware Chapter. Portraits
in Delaware, 1700-1850. Wilmington, 1951. Gift of the Society.

Reynolds, G. William. New World heroes, Lincoln and Garfield. 1892, from
Miss Elizabeth Spratt, Sydney, Australia.

Roebling, John A. Report on the Niagara Railway Suspension Bridge. 1855,
from Mrs. Milburn Truitt, Fort Wayne, Ind.

Viereck, Henry L. Hymenoptera of Connecticut. 1916, from Mrs. Lewis H.
Weld, Arlington, Va.

Whitehill, Walter Muir. The arts in early American history. (Bibliography
by Wendell and Jane Garrett.) Chapel Hill, 1965. Gift of the Institute
of Early American History and Culture, Williamsburg, Va.

Williston, Samuel W. Manual of North American diptera. 3d ed. 1908,
from Mrs. Lewis H. Weld, Arlington, Va.

SUMMARIZED STATISTICS OF ACTIVITIES

ACQUISITIONS
Items (pieces) received: 1963-064 1964-65
Exchange and purchase 69, 584
Gift and transfer 9, 656
Miscellaneous 3, 260

Total pieces 120,008 82,500
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION LIBRARY

Disposition of items (pieces) not retained:
Library of Congress
National Library of Medicine
National Agricultural Library
U.S. Book Exchange
Other Federal libraries and agencies

Total pieces

New material procured:
Books purchased
Subscriptions placed
New exchanges arranged
Specific publications requested as gifts or exchange

Total pieces

CATALOGING
Volumes cataloged:
Smithsonian Main Library including Museum of Natural
History Branch
Bureau of American Ethnology (SOA after March 1, 1965)
Department of Entomology
Museum of History and Technology
National Air Museum
National Armed Forces Advisory Board
National Collection of Fine Arts
National Portrait Gallery
National Zoological Park
Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory
Smithsonian Office of Anthropology
Smithsonian Radiation Biology Laboratory

Total (full cataloging)

Trade catalogs (Museum of History and Technology)
Simplified cataloging

Total new material cataloged
Volumes recataloged

Total volumes cataloged

Catalog cards filed
Number of serials recorded

Binding and repair:
Volumes bound
Volumes repaired in the Library

*Figure adjusted.

60, 977
2, 245
1, 406
3, 014

389

68, 031

4,498
1, 284

81
1, 064

6, 927

7963-64

4,544
257

3, 530
184

179
@
Sith

562

TE

9, 437

478
1 137

*11, 052

205

L257,

34, 718
35, 042

if

5,175
1, 859

1964-65

3, 982
112
106

5, 080
245

16
178
12
74
414
79
99
384 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965
CIRCULATION STATISTICS

Smithsonian books circulated:
Central Library
Museum of History and Technology
Entomology
Smithsonian Office of Anthropology
National Collection of Fine Arts/National Portrait Gallery
Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory

Total

Library of Congress books circulated by:
Central Library
Museum of History and Technology

Total

Interlibrary loan books circulated by:
Central Library
Museum of History and Technology
Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory

Total

Total books circulated

REFERENCE SERVICES
Reference searches:
Questions received in person or by telephone
Central Library
Museum of History and Technology
Entomology
Smithsonian Office of Anthropology
National Collection of Fine Arts/National Portrait
Gallery
Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory

Total

Questions received by mail:
Central Library
Museum of History and Technology
National Collection of Fine Arts/National Portrait
Gallery

Total

Total reference requests handled

*Bureau of American Ethnology.

1963-64

12, 960
11, 957
985
#924

2, 045

28, 871

2, 095
1, 218

Sy ails)

1,051
413

1, 464

33, 648

21, 129
12, 496
996
#697

3} 135

38, 453

148
33

181

38, 634

1964-65

21, 018
12, 345
924

1, 125
416

2, 231

38, 059

2, 699
1,517

4,216

1,619
475
451

2, 545

44, 820
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION LIBRARY 385

TABLE 2.—CATALOGED ACCESSIONS TO THE LIBRARY IN FISCAL

YEAR 1965
Cataloged Total
volumes Cataloged cataloged
as of volumes volumes as
October added of July
Library 1964 1964-65 1965
Smithsonian Central Library 56, 289 3, 601 59, 890
Branch Libraries:
Museum of Natural History Libraries 15127, 373 15, 500
Museum of History and Technology 42, 693 5, 080 47,773
Trade Catalog Collection 4,154 1, 433 5, 587
Smithsonian Office of Anthropology (formerly
Bureau of American Ethnology and Depart-
ment of Anthropology, U.S.N.M.) 35,677 305 35, 982
Entomology 3, 390 106 3, 496
Radiation Biology Laboratory (formerly Radia-
tion and Organisms) 1, 640 Shs) 2 ye)
National Air Museum 1, 897 245 2,142
National Collection of Fine Arts 6, 698 178 6, 876
National Portrait Gallery 78 12 90
National Armed Forces Museum Advisory Board 1S) 16 29
National Zoological Park 1, 097 74 il TTA
Canal Zone Biological Area 3, 178 HE 3, 178
Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory
Cambridge, Mass. 35055 414 3, 469
Washington, D.C. 2, 378 2, 378
Miscellaneous Collections 2, 018 + 2, 018
Total 179,382; ~ 11,936, #1992318
Technical Report Collection—S.A.O. Cambridge,
Mass. 8, 000 8, 000

*No longer includes uncataloged or unbound serials.
**Figures not available.
ried i, 1A HONE TUE NSE i OTT

A; Ovi bees oth «oO |
SORT MAAY

AILS. VAL MITA RATS

ts \ 0 esha mmnamn A a
hanes BS sist MAY |, NRA OG
wi ase (papas ee ore" Ate
Saupe Pea Navan) weenie
CaN} fen es!

Gee sete veo Raia Artes PS actly wl, MO aR

race

ONE OF THESE es ee . tolreidtil one teenie
Ne Hae. 2 OA a yvrologdaet hie yon
Chea fiero Reha a nameck Dy noise 3 ra
rrawen Y vypoloyoutiaA fe
Tiehtey alael oi Suit ive Ygolontt vanioondal
One te eOE Tin ee Sy Rue mes exologt if6
jth Ee woo? OEE ;
sie vbw} \ sche 9
Rey Bees irony by Bhat inet Ey (acu
SCRA ee = TRA pneu
SVALA we Mie ReAKy Cocalo sytAy oct Vor a
ie Badihonttas Avubaiivalcal Chnswvstids ° , yetlet
eh of et based vtdaivisht ceil ape ;
ITE ot Fa Ve0.t dunt taotgnte
ae We RTE pont Tesi
bong hy fir CD Lie Say Werahicy eng Gs inolayiqad rte

‘ eerie, f

eye E Ric Ren 8
Hr0 S A SBE RUINS) GSD eee
ht ee a wii ata, sth ne . 2
CEE eRe Re RE ORs, 1a cay Nee

Arvissiiin, ol Rana hen tanita? OB Bes avila
oy) Br ty iN DM (ee) 2

PA NAR Ren ‘ echt ie ee | ry tg ; 1

ihe aa eth ‘yaniras, poauoday

, pare? Ty PN MA * ie eAY Ay pia y i¥
lies

Ty ' f hd? Wi en c¥ by eres

oy ee

Lab det \. alae Sky $y inl cy thera hi

‘te

CH epee:

Pare pita m

tah:

Siegen 00d" A arta ACAI inuselg ‘a
Publications and Information

notiscmoinl bas enoitsoild
Publications and Information
Pau. H. Okuser, Chief and Public Relations Officer

The editorial and publications division expanded its operations in
fiscal 1965 in full support of the Institution’s newly defined emphasis
on research and education. As the Smithsonian continues to fulfill
its mission of “diffusing knowledge,” the publishing arm of the Insti-
tution plays a vital role in communicating research results to the world.
Operating as the Smithsonian Press, responsibilities and activities of
the editorial and publications division moved forward in four main
programs:

1. Editing, designing, and publishing of scholarly books and
reports on explorations and research by staff members and collabora-
tors of the Institution in the fields of science, history, and art, along
with publications of a more popular nature, such as museum guide-
books, information leaflets, and art catalogs.

2. Control and distribution of Smithsonian publications.

3. Day-to-day dissemination of information to the press and to
the inquiring public.

4, Printing of materials of a current and emergency nature, such
as museum labels and invitations and announcements of Smithsonian
events, by a branch of the Government Printing Office located at the
Institution for this purpose.

PUBLICATIONS PROGRAM

One hundred and thirty publications appeared under the Smith-
sonian imprint during the past year in its various series, as listed
below. These publications are issued partly from federally appropri-
ated funds (Smithsonian Reports and publications of the National
Museum, the Bureau of American Ethnology, the National Air
Museum, and the Astrophysical Observatory) and partly from private
endowment funds (Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections, publi-
cations of the Freer Gallery of Art, and some special publications).
The Institution also publishes under the auspices of the Freer Gallery
of Art the series Ars Orientalis, which appears under the joint imprint
of the University of Michigan and the Smithsonian Institution, In

389
390 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965

addition the Smithsonian also publishes for sale to visitors guidebooks,
information pamphlets, postcards, folders, and popular publications
on scientific and historical subjects related to its important exhibits
and collections.

SMITHSONIAN MiIscELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS

In this series, under the immediate direction of Mrs. Nancy Link
Powars, the following papers were issued:

VOLUME 145

No. 8. Foraminifera from late Pleistocene clay near Waterville, Maine, by
Martin A.Buzas. 30pp. 5pls. 4figs. (Publ.4596.) March1,1965. ($1.)

VOLUME 146

No. 4. Evolutionary trends in the avian genus C/amator, by Herbert Friedmann.
127 pp. 14 figs. (Publ. 4532.) October 30, 1964. (§2.)

No. 5. Some behavior patterns of platyrrhine monkeys. 1. The night
monkey (Aotus trivirgatus), by M. Moynihan. 84 pp. 22 figs. (Publ.
4533.) October 23, 1964. ($1.25.)

No. 6. A revision of the American vuliures of the genus Cathartes, by Alexander
Wetmore. 18 pp. (Publ. 4539.) August 14, 1964. (50 cents.)

No. 7. A new species of marine pennate diatom from Honolulu Harbor, by
Paul S. Conger. 5 pp. 1 pl. (Publ. 4593.) October 23, 1964. (40 cents.)

VOLUME 148

No. 1. A new theory identifying the locale of Columbus’s light, landfall, and
landing, by Ruth G. Durlacher Wolper. 41 pp. 12 figs. (Publ. 4534.)
September 11, 1964. (75 cents.)

No. 2. The brachiopod superfamily Stenoscismatacea, by Richard E. Grant.
192 pp. 24 pls. 34 figs. (Publ. 4569.) April 1, 1965. ($4.50.)

No. 3. Upper Cambrian trilobite faunas of northeastern Tennessee, by Franco
Rasetti. 127 pp. 21 pls. 2 figs. (Publ. 4598.) June 10, 1965. ($3.)

No. 4. Planktonic Foraminifera from the western North Atlantic, by Richard
Cifelli. 36 pp. 9 pls. 4 figs. (Publ. 4599.) February 23, 1965. ($1.)

No. 5. Hexahedrites, by Edward P. Henderson. 41 pp. 4 pls. 8 figs. (Publ.
4601.) June 14, 1965. ($1.)

VOLUME 149

No.1. The distribution and abundance of Foraminifera in Long Island Sound,
by Martin A. Buzas. 89 pp. 4 pls. 22 figs. (Publ. 4604.) May 25, 1965.
($1.50.)

No. 2. A study of the early Tertiary condylarthran mammal Meniscotherium,
by C. Lewis Gazin. 99 pp. 11 pls. 9 figs. (Publi. 4605.) May 10, 1965.
($2.)
PUBLICATIONS AND INFORMATION 391

No. 3. The relationships of Quemisia gravis (Rodentia: ?Heptaxodontidae), by
Clayton E. Ray. 12 pp. 1 pl. 2 figs. (Publ. 4606.) April 28,1965. (50
cents.)

SMITHSONIAN ANNUAL REPORTS
REPORT FOR 1963

The complete volume of the Annual Report of the Board of Regents
for 1963 was received from the printer on December 7, 1964.

Annual Report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution showing
the operations, expenditures, and condition of the Institution for the year
ended June 30, 1963. xii+595 pp., illustr. (Publ. 4530.)

The general appendix contained the following papers (Publ. 4570-
4589):

The solar system, by Sir Bernard Lovell.

Advances in astronomical technology, by Aden B. Meinel.

The analysis of starlight, by Bernard Pagel.

Astronomical photography from the stratosphere, by Martin Schwarzchild.

The Smithsonian’s satellite-tracking program: Its history and organization—
part 2, by E. Nelson Hayes.

The neutrinos, by Melvin Schwartz.

The antibiotics from a botanical viewpoint, by Kenneth L. Jones.

Atomic and other wastes in the sea, by I. Eugene Wallen.

What is cybernetics?, by Donald M. MacKay.

The use of the electron microscope in the study of fossils, by William W. Hay.

Color changes in animals, by D. B. Carlisle.

History of the Corbin Preserve, by Richard H. Manville.

The Southern Ocean: A potential for coral studies, by Donald F. Squires.

The promise of underwater archeology, by George F. Bass.

Plants in the Arctic-Alpine environment, by Stanwyn G. Shetler.

Concerning whales and museums, by A. E. Parr.

Tropical subsistence agriculture in Latin America: Some neglected aspects and
implications, by Raymond E. Crist.

An archeological reconnaissance in Hadhramaut, South Arabia—A preliminary
report, by Gus W. Van Beek, Glen H. Cole, and Albert Jamme, W. F.

The corrosion products of metal antiquities, by Rutherford J. Gettens.

Religious art East and West, by Benjamin Rowland.

REPORT FOR 1964

The report of the Secretary, which will form part of the 1964 Annual
Report of the Board of Regents, was issued January 28, 1965.
Report of the Secretary and the financial report of the Executive Committee of

the Board of Regents for the year ended June 30, 1964. xiii+293 pp.
14 pls. (Publ. 4595.)
392 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965

SPECIAL PUBLICATIONS

James Means and the problem of manflight during the period 1882-1920, by
James Howard Means, M.D. xi+143 pp. 29 pls. 15 figs. (Publ. 4526.)
July 21, 1964. ($3.)

Communications in space. 23 pp., illustr. (Publ. 4568.) August 13, 1964.
(50 cents.)

Masters of space, by Philip S. Hopkins. 32 pp., illustr. (Publ. 4590.) October
23, 1964. (50 cents.)

Research opportunities. 65 pp. (Publ. 4603.) December 9, 1964. (50 cents.)

Training by simulation, by Alan B. Shepard, Jr. 13 pp. (Publ. 4597.) Janu-
ary 8, 1965. (25 cents.)

Opportunities in oceanography, by E. John Long. 33 pp. 46 figs. (Publ.
4537.) July 29, 1964. (50 cents.)

A study relating to the establishment of a National Armed Forces Museum.
23 pp., illustr. (Publ. 4611.) April 15, 1965.

History under the sea, by Mendel Peterson. 108 pp. 56 pls. (Publ. 4538.)
April 26, 1965. ($3.)

The national aeronautical collections, by Paul E. Garber. 10th ed. 168 pp.,
illustr. (Publ. 4255.) May 27, 1965. ($2.)

Smithsonian Institution directory. 99 pp. (Publ. 4638.) June 30, 1965.

REPRINTS

A biographical sketch of James Smithson. 20 pp., illustr. (Publ. 2276.)
October 21, 1964. (50 cents.)

The gown of Mrs. John F. Kennedy. [Supplement to “The Dresses of the
First Ladies of the White House,” by Margaret W. Brown, published by
the Smithsonian Institution in 1952. (Publ. 4060).] September 25, 1964.
(50 cents.)

Smithsonian physical tables. Prepared by William Elmer Forsythe. Ninth
revised edition, third reprint. (Publ. 4169.) March 1, 1965. ($10.)
Lichen handbook, by Mason E. Hale, Jr. 178 pp. 20 pls. 58 figs. (Publ.

4434.) August 18, 1964. ($4.)

Brief guide to the museums in the Washington area. 39 pp., illustr. (Publ.
4528.) August 25, 1964. (25 cents.)

Opportunities in oceanography, by E. John Long. 33 pp. 46 figs. (Publ.
4537.) Revised edition, April 1965. (50 cents.)

The Smithsonian Institution. 55 pp. (Publ. 4600.) Revised edition, Decem-
ber 24, 1964. (50 cents.)

Unirep States NATIONAL Museum PUBLICATIONS

The editorial work of the National Museum continued during the
year under the immediate direction of John S. Lea, assistant chief of
the division. The following publications were issued:
PUBLICATIONS AND INFORMATION 393

REPORT

The United States National Museum annual report for the year ended June 30,
1964. Pp. viii+215, illustr., January 28, 1965.

BULLETINS

161, part 4 (end of volume). The Foraminifera of the tropical Pacific collec-
tions of the “Albatross,” 1899-1900, by Ruth Todd. Pp. v+139, 28 pls.,
January 26, 1965.

230. The bark canoes and skin boats of North America, by Edwin Tappan
Adney and Howard I. Chapelle. Pp. xiv+242, 224 figs., September 8,
1964.

231. Early American scientific instruments and their makers, by Silvio A.
Bedini. Pp. xii+184, 86 figs., August 14, 1964.

238. Early engineering reminiscences (1815-40) of George Escol Sellers, edited
by Eugene S. Ferguson. Pp. xix+203, 84 figs., February 15, 1965.

239. The Recent Mollusca of Augustus Addison Gould, by Richard I. Johnson.
Pp. v +182, 45 pls., July 28, 1964.

240. Contributions from the Museum of History and Technology: Papers
34-44, by members of the staff and others.

Paper 34. The 1893 Duryea automobile, by Don H. Berkebile. Pp. 1-28,
30 figs., October 13, 1964.

Paper 35. The Borghesi astronomical clock, by Silvio A. Bedini. Pp.
29-76, 35 figs., November 13, 1964.

Paper 36. The engineering contributions of Wendel Bollman, by Robert
M. Vogel. Pp. 77-104, 24 figs., November 13, 1964.

Paper 37. Screw-thread cutting by the master-screw method since 1480,
by Edwin A. Battison. Pp. 105-120, 23 figs., October 29, 1964.

Paper 38. The earliest electromagnetic instruments, by Robert A. Chip-
man. Pp. 121-136, 8 figs., November 13, 1964.

Paper 39. Fulton’s “steam battery”: Blockship and catamaran, by
Howard I. Chapelle. Pp. 137-176, 20 figs., November 24, 1964.

Paper 40. History of phosphorus, by Eduard Farber. Pp. 177-200, 23
figs., March 8, 1965.

Paper 41. Tunnel engineering—a museum treatment, by Robert M.
Vogel. Pp. 201-240, 44 figs., October 29, 1964.

Paper 42. The “Pioneer”: Light passenger locomotive of 1851 in the
Museum of History and Technology, by John H. White. Pp. 241-268,
30 figs., November 17, 1964.

Paper 43. History of the Division of Medical Sciences, by Sami Hamarneh.
Pp. 269-300, 24 figs., November 24, 1964.

Paper 44. Development of gravity pendulums in the 19th century, by
Victor F. Lenzen and Robert P. Multhauf. Pp. 301-348, 34 figs., May
14, 1965.

241. Contributions from the Museum of History and Technology: Papers
45-51, by members of the staff and others.

789-427—_66——_38
394 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965

Paper 45. Political campaign torches, by Herbert R. Collins. Pp. 1-44,
95 figs., December 22, 1964.
Paper 46. Bryan the campaigner, by Keith Melder. Pp. 45-80, 19 figs.,
May 6, 1965.
Paper 48. United States patents, 1790 to 1870: New uses for old ideas,
by Peter C. Welsh. Pp. 109-152, 57 figs., May 5, 1965.
Paper 50. Red Cross ambulance of 1898 in the Museum of History and
Technology, by Herbert R. Collins. Pp. 165-176, 8 figs., April 14, 1965.
242. Tanning in the United States to 1850: A brief history, by Peter C. Welsh.
Pp. ix+99, 28 figs., December 21, 1964.
243. Lacebugs of the world: A catalog (Hemiptera: Tingidae), by Carl J.
Drake and Florence A. Ruhoff. Pp. viiit634, 57 pls., 6 figs., March 8,
1965.

CONTRIBUTIONS FROM THE NATIONAL HERBARIUM

From volume 34—

Part 3. Systematic anatomy and ontogeny of the stem in Passifloraceae, by
Edward S. Ayensu and William L. Stern. Pp. 45-74, 12 pls., August 21,
1964.

From volume 35—

Pari 6 (end of volume). Cacao and its allies, a taxonomic revision of the genus
Theobroma, by Jose Cuatrecasas. Pp. 379-614, 12 pls., 44 figs., August 21,
1964.

From volume 36—

Part 4. Studies on Parmelia subgenus Parmelia, by Mason E. Hale, Jr., and Syo
Kurokawa. Pp. 121-192, 9 pls., 1 fig., August 26, 1964.

Part 5. A monograph of Parmelia subgenus Amphigymnia, by Mason E. Hale, Jr.
Pp. 193-358, 16 pls., 29 figs., April 8, 1965.

PROCEEDINGS

From volume 114—

No. 3475. Moths of the family Acrolophidae in America north of Mexico
(Microlepidoptera), by Frank F. Hasbrouck. Pp. 487-706, 219 figs.,
October 15, 1964.

From volume 115—

Title page, table of contents, and index. Pp. i-v+633-654, March 1, 1965.

No. 3492. The Jambeli culture of south coastal Ecuador, by Emilio Estrada,
Betty J. Meggers, and Clifford Evans. Pp. 483-558, 12 pls., 42 figs.,
September 25, 1964.

No. 3493. A revision of the carcharhinid shark genera Scoliodon, Loxodon, and
Rhizoprionodon, by Victor G. Springer. Pp. 559-632, 2 pls., 14 figs.,
September 1, 1964.

From volume 116—

No. 3494. A review of the ophidioid fish genus Oligopus with the description of
a new species from West Africa, by Daniel M. Cohen. Pp. 1-22, 5 pls.,
October 13, 1964.
PUBLICATIONS AND INFORMATION 395

No. 3495. North American Stenomidae (Lepidoptera: Gelechioidea), by W.
Donald Duckworth. Pp. 23-72, 4 pls., 45 figs., October 27, 1964.

No. 3496. A survey of vertebral numbers in sharks, by Victor G. Springer and
J. A. F. Garrick. Pp. 73-96, 1 pl., October 16, 1964.

No. 3497. Neotropical Microlepidoptera, IV. A new genus of Stenomidae
with descriptions of four new species (Lepidoptera: Gelechioidea). Pp.
97-114, 5 figs., September 11, 1964.

No. 3498. One new species and two redescriptions of catfishes of the South
American callichthyid genus Corydoras, by Stanley H. Weitzman. Pp.
115-126, 6 figs., October 13, 1964.

No. 3499. Osteology and relationships of South American characid fishes of
subfamilies Lebiasininae and Erythrininae with special reference to subtribe
Nannostomina, by Stanley H. Weitzman. Pp. 127-170, 10 figs., October
13, 1964.

No. 3500. Three new species of frogfishes from the Indian and Pacific Oceans
with notes on other species (family Antennariidae), by Leonard P. Schultz.
Pp. 171-182, 3 pls., September 1, 1964.

No. 3501. Neotropical Microlepidoptera, V. Synopsis of the species of the
genus Proeulia from central Chile (Lepidoptera: Tortricidae), by Nicholas S.
Obraztsov. Pp. 183-196, 9 pls., October 29, 1964.

No. 3502. Neotropical Microlepidoptera, VI. Genera Orsotricha Meyrick and
Palinorsa Meyrick (Gelechiidae, Oecophoridae), by J. F. Gates Clarke.
Pp. 197-204, 1 pl., 4 figs., November 23, 1964.

No. 3503. Contributions to the knowledge of the Hemerobiidae of western
North America (Neuroptera), by Waro Nakahara. Pp. 205-222, 1 pl.,
4 figs., January 26, 1965.

No. 3504. A contribution to the study of the genus Sphaerocera Latreille in
Central and South America (Diptera: Sphaeroceridae), by O. W. Richards.
Pp. 223-242, 28 figs., April 5, 1965.

No. 3505. Herpetology of the Zuni Mountains region, northwestern New
Mexico, by Frederick R. Gehlbach. Pp. 243-332, 4 pls., 10 figs., February
26, 1965.

No. 3506. Review of the genus Cerceris in America north of Mexico (Hymenop-
tera: Sphecidae), by Herman A. Scullen. Pp. 333-548, 1 pl., 182 figs.,
May 25, 1965.

No. 3507. North American moths of the genus Swammerdamia (Lepidoptera:
Yponomeutidae), by W. Donald Duckworth. Pp. 549-556, 3 figs., May
25, 1965.

BuREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY PUBLICATIONS

The editorial work continued under the immediate direction of Mrs.
Eloise B. Edelen. The following publications were issued:
ANNUAL REPORT

Eighty-first Annual Report of the Bureau of American Ethnology, 1963-1964.
iit+31 pp. 1965.
396 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965

BULLETINS

Bulletin 191. Anthropological Papers Nos. 68-74. iii+--425 pp., 104 pls., 55
figs., 13 maps. 1964.
No. 68. The prehistory of Panama Viejo, by Leo P. Biese.
No. 69. The language of Santa Ana Pueblo, by Irvine Davis.
No. 70. Observations on certain ancient tribes of the Northern Appa-
lachian Province, by Bernard G. Hoffman.
No. 71. El Limén, an early tomb site in Coclé Province, Panama, by
Matthew W. and Marion Stirling.
No. 72. Archeological notes on Almirante Bay, Bocas del Toro, Panama,
by Matthew W. and Marion Stirling.
No. 73. The archeology of Taboga, Uraba, and Taboguilla Islands,
Panama, by Matthew W. and Marion Stirling.
No. 74. Iroquois masks and maskmaking at Onondaga, by Jean Hendry.
Bulletin 192. Archeology of the Yakutat Bay area, Alaska, by Frederica de
Laguna et al. xi-+245 pp., 19 pls., 25 figs., 7 maps. 1964.
Bulletin 193. Archeological investigations in the Parita and Santa Maria
zones of Panama, by John Ladd. xii-+291 pp., 25 pls., 68 figs., 2 maps,
14 charts. 1964.

ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY PUBLICATIONS

Publication during the year in the series Smithsonian Contributions
to Astrophysics follows:
VOLUME 8

No. 4. The velocity of faint meteors, by Gerald S. Hawkins, Bertil-Anders
Lindblad, and Richard B. Southworth. Pp. 133-139, 3 figs., September
2, 1964.

No. 5. On the luminous efficiency of meteors, by Franco Verniani. Pp.
141-172, 8 figs., June 17, 1965.

No. 6. Second catalog of hourly meteor rates, by Charles P. Olivier. Pp.
171-180, May 11, 1965.

No. 7. Meteor geomagnetic effects, by Sydney Chapman and Attia A. Ashour.
Pp. 181-197, 4 figs., June 9, 1965.

No. 8. The Henbury meteorite craters, by Paul W. Hodge. Pp. 199-213, 17
figs., April 20, 1965.

NATIONAL AiR MusEuM PUBLICATIONS

The following monographs were issued during the year in the new
series Smithsonian Annals of Flight:

VOLUME 1

No. 1. The first nonstop coast-to-coast flight and the historic T—2 airplane,
by Louis S. Casey. Pp. x-+1-90, 44 figs., December 17, 1964.
PUBLICATIONS AND INFORMATION 397

No. 2. The first airplane diesel engine: Packard model DR-980 of 1928, by
Robert B. Meyer. Pp. vii+48, 38 figs., April 30, 1965.

NATIONAL COLLECTION OF FINE ARTs PUBLICATIONS

The following catalogs were issued during the year:

Stuart Davis memorial exhibition. 98 pp., illustr. (Publ. 4614.) 1965.

Traveling Exhibitions Catalog, 1965-1966. 61 pp., illustr. (Publ. 4609.)
1965.

Sketches by Constable from the Victoria and Albert Museum. 79 pp., illustr.
(Publ. 4610.) 1965.

Medieval frescoes from Yugoslavia. 32 pp., illustr. (Publ. 4594.) 1965.

Brazilian tapestries of Genaro de Carvalho. 4 pp. (Publ. 4592.) 1964.

American primitive watercolors. 16 pp. (Publ. 4591.) 1964. (25 cents.)

Watercolors by Pop Hart. 4 pp. (Publ. 4607.) 1964.

Old master prints. 4 pp. 1964.

Brass rubbings from England. 4 pp. 1964.

Eugene Berman: New stage designs. 4 pp. 1964.

FREER GALLERY OF ART PUBLICATIONS

Hokusai paintings and drawings in the Freer Gallery of Art. 38 pp. 35 figs. +
2 color. (Publ. 4419.) Revised edition, 1965. ($1.)

James McNeill Whistler: A biographical outline, illustrated from the collections
of the Freer Gallery of Art, by Burns A. Stubbs. 29 pp. 28 pls. Freer
Gallery of Art Occasional Papers, vol. 1, No. 4. (Publ. 3994.) 1965
(reprint of 1950 edition). ($1.)

AMERICAN HisTorRIcAL AssOCcIATION REPORTS

The annual reports of the American Historical Association are trans-
mitted by the Association to the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institu-
tion and are by him communicated to Congress, as provided in the act
of incorporation of the Association. The following reports were issued
during the year:

Annual report of the American Historical Association for the year 1963. Vol. 1.
Proceedings. xxvii+302 pp. December 15, 1964.

REPORT OF THE NATIONAL SocrETY, DAUGHTERS OF THE AMERICAN
REVOLUTION

In accordance with law, the manuscript of the 67th annual report
of the National Society, Daughters of the American Revolution, was
transmitted to Congress on March 19, 1965.!

1D.A.R. reports are published as Senate documents and are not available from the Smithsonian
Institution.
398 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965
DISTRIBUTION PROGRAM

Requests for publications and information showed a substantial
increase during the year. The Publications Distribution Section, under
the immediate supervision of Mrs. Eileen M. McCarthy, received
41,014 requests for publications from foreign and domestic libraries,
universities, research institutions, educational establishments, and
individuals throughout the world.

A total of 1,082,479 publications, miscellaneous items, and informa-
tion leaflets were distributed during fiscal 1965.

The following titles were issued and sent to libraries as a result of the
Institution’s participation in the National Science Foundation translation
program:

Bere, L. S.

Freshwater fishes of the U.S.S.R. and adjacent countries, vols. 2 and 3.
Borutsku, E. V.

Freshwater Harpacticoida. Fauna of U.S.S.R., Crustacea, vol. 3, No. 4.
BYALYNITSKII-BIRULYA, A. A.

Scorpions. Fauna of Russia and adjacent couniries, Arachnoidea, vol. 1.

Arthrogastric Arachnids of Caucasia. Part 1, Scorpions.
JERZMANSKA, ANNA.

Ichthyofauna from the Jasto Shales of Sobniow. Acta Palaeontologica

Polonica, vol. 5, No. 4.
MiscHEnko, L. L.

Locusts and grasshoppers. Fauna of U.S.S.R., Orthoptera, vol. 4, No. 2.
Nixov’sxn, A. M.

Ophidia. Fauna of Russia and adjacent countries, reptiles, vol. 2.
Tarasov, S. V.

Technology of watch production.
TELENGA, N. A.

Braconidai. Fauna of the U.S.S.R., Hymenoptera, vol. 5, No. 4.
Suisuxin, B. K., editor.

Flora of the U.S.S.R., vol. 3.

INFORMATION PROGRAM

With the growth of the Institution and the inauguration of many
new programs, the day-to-day business of keeping the press and other
communications media informed concerning the Smithsonian became
highly accelerated. So much so that on July 20, 1964, a full-time
press officer, George Berklacy, joined the staff. During the year
stepped-up information activities included:

1. Issuance of more than 100 press releases on noteworthy events
and scientific researches.
PUBLICATIONS AND INFORMATION 399

2. Distribution of 10 news features to specialized media.

3. Answering some 500 written inquiries and more than 1,500
telephone calls for specific information.

4. Arranging and holding press conferences in advance of major
exhibitions or activities.

5. Giving information to approximately 300 visitors, many of them
newsmen and writers, who sought knowledge concerning the work,
facilities, history, and resources of the Institution.

6. Installation of ‘“‘Dial-a-Satellite’’ service. ‘This tape-recorded
message was inaugurated as a public service to furnish listeners within
a radius of 150 miles of the Smithsonian with up-to-date information
on the location of satellites and other astronomical phenomena.
More than 700 individuals dialed daily for the message.

PRINTING PROGRAM

The Smithsonian Print Shop, a branch of the Government Printing
Office under the immediate supervision of Murray C. Ballard, operated
at more than maximum capacity during the past year, completing
704 individual printing jobs, or approximately 28 percent more than
the preceding year These assignments included labels, forms, invita-
tions, programs, leaflets, flyers, announcements, and other printing of
a current and emergency nature.

OTHER ACTIVITIES

For the first time the Smithsonian participated with a publications
exhibit at the annual meeting of the American Association for the
Advancement of Science in Montreal, December 27-30, 1964. The
exhibit also encompassed the work of the Smithsonian in general with
particular emphasis on its research and museum programs. Not only
did the chief of the division attend the Montreal meeting, but he and
two editors in the division represented the Institution at the annual
meeting of the Association of American University Presses held the
latter part of May in Lexington, Ky.

The Smithsonian Institution and T.F.H. Publications, Inc., of Jersey
City, N.J., in May 1963 entered into an agreement to establish a re-
stricted fund to be known as the “T.F.H. fund for the increase and
diffusion of knowledge concerning fishes suitable for home aquaria.”
T.F.H. will donate to the Smithsonian Institution reprinted books to
be sold by the Institution at not less than cost. The money derived
400 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965

from such sales will be earmarked for research, collection or purchase
of fish specimens, explorations, and publication of scientific reports
related to aquarium fishes. The second reprint under this agreement
was published March 29, 1965; it is The Fresh-Water Fishes of Stam, or
Thailand, by Hugh M. Smith, Bulletin 188 of the U.S. National
Museum, originally issued in 1945.

STAFF CHANGES

Three new editors were added to the staff of the division during the
past year: Harriet T. Douty on July 13, 1964; Ernest E. Biebighauser
on August 2, 1964; and Mrs. Joan B. Horn on September 8, 1964.

On July 20, 1964, George J. Berklacy was appointed press officer,
and on January 17, 1965, Crimilda Pontes joined the staff as assistant
in the design department.

Mrs. Dorothy M. Watson was, appointed clerk-stenographer on
March 31, 1965, following the resignation of Sue D. Wallace on
January 29, 1965.
Report of the Executive Committee of the
Board of Regents of the Smithsonian
Institution

For the Year Ended June 30, 1965
SHEET PERC Oe ORC MA FES

pes water’ wal TE sek etline (ape banal ean pelea a Be ee

LETC) Wi etek thy Ye WiRCOUL CACY Mity REO eats Py bis ae | rif Ca
Weir eet elt RENT os Rea Bam dean | CON ORE, pia ‘al
. nirdttiationd Moh! oO. TORR. fe: ta eee
ie MM COR ATT ly na Seon: Race Lett. Daa ae

7
‘ whi A C3 im 141 ;
1 7 gp: '
‘ ’ ( Mo 404 ale '
4 " J i]
LD 46 F ! Pah &@

J Tt Lists t bar y ‘aye ar fa,

ols ‘to pa ae 5 rineoenthes
with sinioad cng arid to nee
Mest ee einen, “protisienl a Sa

2a@t Of anul. bobrdl 10 aes
Report of the Executive Committee of the Board of
Regents of the Smithsonian Institution

For the Year Ended June 30, 1965

To THE BOARD OF REGENTS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION:

Your executive committee respectfully submits the following report
in relation to the funds of the Smithsonian Institution, together with a
statement of the appropriations by Congress for the Government bu-
reaus in the administrative charge of the Institution.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

PARENT FUND

The original bequest of James Smithson was £104,960 8s 6d
($508,318.46). Refunds of money expended in prosecution of the
claim, freight, insurance, and other incidental expenses, together
with payment into the fund of the sum of £5,015, which had been
withheld during the lifetime of Madame de la Batut, brought the
fund to the amount of $550,000.

The gift of James Smithson was “‘lent to the United States Treasury,
at 6 per centum per annum interest” (20 U.S.C. 54) and by the Act
of March 12, 1894 (20 U.S.C. 55) the Secretary of the Treasury was
‘“‘authorized to receive into the Treasury, on the same terms as the
original bequest of James Smithson, such sums as the Regents may,
from time to time see fit to deposit, not exceeding, with the original
bequest the sum of $1,000,000.”

The maximum of $1,000,000 which the Smithsonian Institution
was authorized to deposit in the Treasury of the United States was
reached on January 11, 1917, by the deposit of $2,000.

Under the above authority the amounts shown below are deposited

403
404 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965

in the United States Treasury and draw 6 percent interest:

Unrestricted
Donor funds Income 1965
James Smithson je ey3 cee shocye ee sree i tere $727, 640 $43, 658. 40
TENS 6 ANU L Chee CA aU CR TOI Gl Osa oer atc 14, 000 840. 00
bane a ites cea ae aaties Bates aaverepe eters fas 500 30. 00
Etamiltorn ae sero emes AOC ea eerie 2, 500 150. 00
Hodgkins: (General)). 01.2 2292.) MAE 116, 000 6, 960. 00
IPOOTE Hide seat Ge tigers Ocoee 26, 670 1, 600. 20
RUDE eSiaeerere ata reraycreler sires e satel siome te (ceatene: te taereNte 590 35. 40
Samlorq ye sped Wacee late see elle ave tote caters oeae as 1, 100 66. 00
$889, 000 $53, 340. 00
Restricted
funds
Hodgkins (Specific) «...45 <2 )00,4¢ my 44 bis $100,000 6,000. 00

GROLG oa)o0t ie rete ee ee tame aus oe cre Oplane one 11,000 660. 00
111,000 6,660. 00

$1,000,000 $60,000. 00

In addition to the $1,000,000 deposited in the Treasury of the United
States there has been accumulated from income and bequests the
sum of $7,314,088.20 which has been invested. Of this sum,
$6,232,813.25 is carried on the books of the Institution as the Con-
solidated Fund, a policy approved by the Regents at their meeting
on December 14, 1916. The balance is made up of several small
funds.
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE

CONSOLIDATED FuND

[Income for the unrestricted use of the Institution]

Fund Investment 1965

munGrey. Ls opecial is. 2 .. Sessa. anon $24, 420. 96
*Avery, Robert S..and Lydia ........ 64, 746. 08
BorrestRObDert Wee, . . . . SRI IG, ory, 1, 771, 443. 93
Gifts, royalties, gain on sale of securities. . . . 452, 590. 06
Hachenberg, George P., and Caroline .... 6, 592. 34
Bit araMrOn, JaTies OCS SO ee ee 661. 65
Aare eEaViIs Ee wf} STteRER IIE CBr 798. 37
Memiveeamine . . . . 2 5 Sty Wer JOIG oy 1, 982. 44
Henry, Joseph and Harriet A... ...... 80, 353. 01
Higbee, Harry, Memorial Fund. ...... 19, 211. 07
*Hodgkins, Thomas G. (General). . ..... 49, 654. 39
Morrow, wirht W.. . . wei PO fete 126, 754. 98
imineiaerra A, . . ss HATE, jay 1, 314.17
'Poore,, Lucy Ttiand George W....... - 266, 780. 80
bometiremry tirke . . . . | (itm Mle Jo Sy 469, 448. 21
eRe WEA PORES) cg 5 wn ow tw fo te! ww 775. 49
SSaibreemGeorre tl, . . « . alt tern pny 1, 459.13
SCORERS. 2 5. ss CUT ST SORT Ty 2,001.15
PRES OAT RRM ATESSED Sot cows et a fee “0! “0 *s 586. 25
Watherspoon, Thomas A. .-. 8.) $0 96% by 211, 535. 38
LIN lee aoe ec ene eee ID $3, 553, 109. 86

*In addition to funds deposited in the United States Treasury.

405

Income 1965

$1, 197.
3, 174.
86, 855.
22, 190.
323.

32.

Be
ay!
- 70
¥95
BES
. 84

$174, 210.

37
52
18
56
24
44
406 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965

CONSOLIDATED FUND

{Income restricted to specific use]

Fund
Abbott, William L., for investigations in biology .
Armstrong, Edwin James, for use of Department of
Invertebrate Paleontology when principal
amounts toys5!000300) <3, -. ce. coientente
Arthur, James, for investigations and study of the
sun and annual lecture on same............
Bacon, Virginia Purdy, for traveling scholarship
to investigate fauna of countries other than the
inited! States Osis ise ea! ee yego. ays tysweds ue syeneacts
Baird, Lucy H., for creating a memorial to Secre-
tary (Bard). Ge PBs Pho ioccce crspciaye isc sovsqsvewseuers
Barney, Alice Pike, for collection of paintings and
pastels and for encouragement of American
ANEISHC (CNGEAV OM) cielo cielo) ol toper ere a ckey>) acicae ke
Barstow, Frederick D., for purchase of animals for
Folopical Parigy Se: oi... isis 5, chage speage sue nye tgsseaees
Brown, Roland W., endowment fund—study, care,
and improvement of the Smithsonian paleo-
potanicalicallections crear eee
Canfield collection, for increase and care of the
Canfield collection of minerals.............
Casey, Thomas L., for maintenance of the Casey
collection and promotion of researches relating
ta"Coleopteras sac.ivs. ccs cole sme eae s
Chamberlain, Francis Lea, for increase and pro-
motion of Isaac Lea Collection of gems and
FOMUSKS sche occ ceases crater ee Siete eae
Dykes, Charles, for support in financial research. .
Eickemeyer, Florence Brevoort, for preservation
and exhibition of the photographic collection
of Rudolph Hickemeyer, [res .255-- 224
Guggenheim, David and Florence, Foundation for
a commemorative Guggenheim Exhibit, an
annual Daniel Guggenheim Lecture, and
annual Guggenheim Fellowships for graduate
students for research at the National Air

Hanson, Martin Gustav and Caroline Runice, for
some scientific work of the Institution, prefer-
ably in chemistry or medicine..............

2,370:

65,556.

82,123.

60,098.

47,014.

1,638.

SRO Ss

62 ,693.

20,546.

46,159.
70,572.

17,816.

252018

14,572.

Investment 1965
$170, 887. 51

64

00

80

06

08

70

25

53

94

29

05

110.

3,214.

4,026.

2,946.

2,205:

80.

2 Glue

3,073:

1,007.

20a
3,460.

873.

1,238.

714.

Income 7965
$8, 378. 65

78

24

62

10

33

89

90

08

417e

REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE

CONSOLIDATED _Funp—continued

Fund

Higbee, Harry, income for general use of the
Smithsonian Institution after June 11, 1967. .
Hillyer, Virgil, for increase and care of Virgil
Hillyer collection of lighting objects........
Hitchcock, Albert S., for care of the Hitchcock
Agrostological Library... 05002522 202 225,
Hrdlicka, Ales and Marie, to further researches in
physical anthropology and publication in
Ecuncction therewith, .... 2:03.00 7B ae
Hughes, Bruce, to found Hughes alcove..........
Johnson, E. R. Fenimore, research in underwater
PUUROOEADAY I sr C8 Se cas a via DESEO YALA
Loeb, Morris, for furtherance of knowledge in the
SUL SOC) eae rs
Long, Annette and Edith C., for upkeep and preser-
vation of Long collection of embroideries, laces,

SEC) LECUSLISS) s DU ee
Maxwell, Mary E., for care and exhibition of Max-
Wit OMECHOIG.!.sreuiiySE pas Ao cin srwer,y dat
Myer, Catherine Walden, for purchase of first-class
works of art for use and benefit of the National
Collection of. Pine “Arts sh. ses cen anes. .

Noyes, Frank B., for use in connection with the col-
lection of dolls placed in the U.S. National
Museum through the interest of Mr. and Mrs.
IESE N on as ed apn » home

Pell, Cornelia Livingston, for maintenance of
Alfred Duane Pell collection..............

Petrocelli, Joseph, for the care of the Petrocelli col-
lection of photographic prints and for the en-
largement and development of the section of
photography of the U.S. National Museum. .

Rathbun, Richard, for use of division of U.S. Na-
tional Museum containing Crustacea......

*Reid, Addison T., for founding chair in biology,
im memory of Asher Tunis. ...............

Roebling Collection, for care, improvement, and
increase of Roebling collection of minerals. . .

mocblne Solar Research. ........-.<..02s.s.

Rollins, Miriam and William, for investigations in
pliysies and chemistry ....). 0.0... 00.240. 00 0.

Smithsonian employees’ retirement.............

Investment 7965

$873. 99
10,772. 90
2,586.50
95,007. 12
31,375. 95
13,168. 61

142,858. 52

890. 02

32,151. 01

33,109. 66

39,014. 44

1,574.79

125150,22

12,151.68
17,434. 18
29,156.18

197,828. 71
41,104. 53

250,459. 26

37,471. 48

*In addition to funds deposited in the United States Treasury.

407

Income 1965

$40.

528.

126.

4,440.
1,538.

615.

7,004.

Dane

595.

854.
1,429.

9,699,
2,015.

11,986.
1,853.

31

21

83

48

39

47

So

. 63

5 aie

. 88

21

72

. 81

77

53

58
33

20
35
408 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965

CONSOLIDATED FuNnp—continued

Fund Investment 1965 Income 1965

Smithsonian Institution and THF............. $7 ,543. 98 $216. 66
Springer, Frank, for care and increase of the

Springer collection and library............ 29 ,394. 98 1, 441. 22
Strong, Julia D., for benefit of the National Collec-

tion of Fine Arts). so (62% 68 daprabaase waka ae 16,389. 20 803. 56

Walcott, Charles D. and Mary Vaux, for develop-
ment of geological and paleontological studies

and publishing results of same............. 787 ,543. 04 38 ,574. 76
Walcott, Mary Vaux, for publication in botany. . 94,883. 87 4,652.19
Younger, HelenjWaleote. 0... <1. nes rte 127,107. 05 6,737.52
Zerbee, Francis Brincklé, for endowment of

AQUAYIA oc Se fete carmel mete a nie nianets savoury oranets 1,554. 86 76. 22

WBOtal oe Battie c= sce pvols oie cuss wore sactne $2 ,806,250.73 $137,370. 95

FREER GALLERY OF ART FUND

Early in 1906, by deed of gift, Charles L. Freer, of Detroit, gave to
the Institution his collection of Chinese and other Oriental objects of
art, as well as paintings, etchings, and other works of art by Whistler,
Thayer, Dewing, and other artists. Later he also gave funds for con-
struction of a building to house the collection, and finally in his will,
probated November 6, 1919, he provided stocks and securities to the
estimated value of $1, 958, 591. 42 as an endowment fund for the oper-
ation of the Gallery. The fund now amounts to $11, 345, 500. 73.

REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE

SUMMARY OF ENDOWMENTS

Invested endowment for general purposes ......... $5, 278, 509. 86
Invested endowment for specific purposes other than Freer en-

CICIIUMEC 2. GP is 6S ar ease secs el te ene Se eae ‘ 3, 035, 578. 34

Total invested endowment other than Freer .... . 8, 314, 088. 20

Freer invested endowment for specific purposes . . .... . 11, 345, 500. 73

409

Total invested endowment for all purposes . . ... . $19, 659, 588. 93

CLASSIFICATION OF INVESTMENTS

Deposited in the U.S. Treasury at 6 percent per annum, as

authorized in the U.S. Revised Statutes, sec. 5591 ..... $1, 000, 000. 00

Investments other than Freer endowment (cost or market value
at date acquired):

Darks 3° 3 Gisaeee ee nea en $2, 869, 467. 95
Sale: 5 34 (SSeS eee 3, 416, 006. 37
Real estate and mortgages ...... 951, 406. 00

Dimsavestca capital, 2 be Gs e 6. 77, 207. 88 7, 314, 088. 20

Total investments other than Freer en-

COW TCTIE CW eM Fyfe ls) fc) ea: ale els 6) aah bye 8, 314, 088. 20

Investments of Freer endowment (cost or
market value at date acquired):

Trike . ee $6, 270, 238. 91

SHOEES 18 VS RA One) a oe . 4,869, 718. 34

Pramvested capital... cue. 2 4 8 ee 205, 543. 48 11, 345, 500. 73
MietaleeryestinentS) ic. sctoy eye se) 2 nS em. ws $19, 659, 588. 93

789--427—_66——-39
410 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965

Current funds:
General:
Cash:
United States Treasury
current account
Inbanks and on hand

Investments—stocks and
bonds (quoted market
value $1,418,400. 00)
(note)

Travel and other advances

Total general funds
Restricted:
Cash:
United States Treasury
current account
In banks
Investments—stocks and
bonds (quoted market
value $1, 695, 875. 00)
(note)

Total restricted
funds

Total current funds

Assets

SMITHSONIAN

BALANCE SHEET OF PRIVATE

$1, 662, 558. 56
112, 511. 03

Us HS Use), SY)

1,459, 651.17
20, 262. 26

3, 254, 983. 02

$583, 587. 85
40, 549. 99

1, 695, 540. 60

2, 319, 678. 44

5, 574, 661. 46
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 411

EXHIBIT A

INSTITUTION
FUNDS, JUNE 30, 1965

Fund Balances
Current funds:
General:
Unexpended funds—
unrestricted

(Exhibit B) $3, 254, 983. 02

Total general
funds 3, 254, 983. 02

Restricted (Exhibit C):
Unexpended income from
endowment $1, 351, 543. 59
Funds for special
purposes:
Gifts 615, 908. 71
Grants 613, 902. 20
Contracts (261, 676. 06)

Total restricted
funds 2, 319, 678. 44

Total current
funds 5. 574. 661. 46
412 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965

Assets—Continued
Endowment funds and funds
functioning as endowment:
Investments:
Freer Gallery of Art:
Cash $205, 543. 48
Stocks and bonds
(quoted market

value
$17,276,105. 00)
(note) 11, 139, 957. 25
11, 345, 500. 73
Consolidated:
Cash $77, 207. 88

Stocks and bonds
(quoted market value
$7,852,739.00) (note) 6,155, 605. 37

6;'232,,013-25
Loan to United States
Treasury 1, 000, 000. 00
Other stocks and bonds
(quoted market value
$177,204.00) (note) 129, 868. 95
Real estate 951,406.00 8, 314, 088. 20

Total endowment
funds and funds
functioning as
endowment 19, 659, 588. 93

$25, 234, 250. 39

——SSSSSSSSS==

Note: Investments are stated at cost or appraisal value at date of gift.
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 413

Fund Balances—Continued

Endowment funds and funds
functioning as endowment

(Exhibit D):
Freer Gallery of Art $11, 345, 500. 73
Other:
Restricted $3, 035, 578. 34

General 5, 278, 509. 86

8, 314, 088. 20

Total endowment
funds and
funds function-
ing as endow-
ment

195659; 586-93

$25, 234, 250. 39
ZO “€86 ‘Srz ‘E¢

ZO “€86 “Sz ‘e$
svat
f0 pua 0 aounjog

SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965

d@ LIGIHXd

414

IL ‘ove “E80 ‘ZI$ LO “6Sr “689$

¥S “SOS ‘F08 ‘Z
67 “€€8 ‘Lez ‘9

69 ‘E19 “6rE Dodoo O00 Osean OO
G9 “96¢ ‘189 ‘7TH LO“6S+r “6894
(Z ajnp2y2s) 4ay10)
SPUIWMASANGSUT

(L anpayrg) 81422904

Ov 6L9 ‘TLE ‘TIS 09 “C6I ‘LLZ ‘7H
¥S “SOS “F08 ‘Z
67 ‘€¢8 ‘LPT ‘9

OO O00 Gro td Oo% OOo

€9 5G 19 “60S Ce CC)
00 “L2Z ‘696 ‘%$ = 09 “E61 “LLZ ‘eS
S4afsuds J. vat fo

suuursag 7D auDjvg

S961 ‘O€ ANN GAGNA UVAA

AONV IVE GNOA TVYANAD LNAWANO NI SHONVHO JO LNANGALV.LS

NOILNLILSNJ NVINOSHLING

$19e1]U0+D
sqUeID)
an)
suonei0dg
415

REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE

+7 “LO “998 ‘“bT €€ 12e ‘bhO ‘€

€€ “826 “SEO “ZL €8 “€06 ‘Les ‘€

OL ‘08S “FI

b9 “SSI ‘€07

v8 °L66 ‘6SP ‘TI
Br ‘07S ‘Or

L9 “€L9 ‘L16

+9 ‘OZ “PLT
L9 "8ST ‘OFT
9€ “POE ‘26S

COC e CCC nat bax Tai) Oc

—_—

16 ‘880 “o¢z ‘c¢ (0S ‘789 “€6z$)
1°90, S79D4]U0')

- tr

06 ‘298 ‘86S ‘8 78 “EFL “S96 Gl “682 ‘LSz ‘Z
LI “LbO “Z8E ‘ZL LZ ‘CIS ‘OSr 90 "S9P “S96

Sr wate: (oe) b) Sire) 8) eel ay ee G8 Tevere 16) S83 GE a

Se S oe thin otk $9 “SST “COZ Aa ange ee
LI ‘Lb ‘Z8E ‘ZL b8 "179 ‘TET 00 “SZ ‘2

6: .a0,0. pe) @) 850) éb eld. aoa s +6 GLC oT 6S aca) “6¢

Clee ese Oe ee ee aa Rh | M6 J0lcel by isiiés 6.16 Ye) ein alse L9 “E19 ‘L16

Sed ¢ One eka ee ee. ce. © fis Ye\ivle) 0) 1h; 6. (616 [6% o0 pe bh 19 0) 4 ‘yLI

CUO Cet OC De ete Ord Of OO Caco. ty O00 mo Oar L9 "SSI ‘Orl

SUG) se el ene Te cleve| Lens Wee ssiel aewel eles eh a) le-let bs 16 9¢ POc ‘L6S

€L S18 ‘91Z ‘I$ §=— SS “169 ‘bISd
SjUuDL) sufi

sasoding porsads sof spun

€l ‘vce “Zor ‘1$
auioour

papuadxauy

KG)
SUOTIIGIYXS SuIpAeIT,
sjueis pur syig
suoneorqnd jo aeg
JUSWIMOPUD WTO. 9UIOIUT [e107

spunj po}d14jso1u
spuny pajorjsor 19I1Q
wy jo Alayey s941,7
‘JUSIMOpUS WOI, BUIODUT
PPV.

Jeo Jo Sutuutsaq ie voueypeg

S961 ‘O€ UNO GHGNA UVGA “AONVIVA GNOA GaALOTYLSAY LNIUVUAD NI SHONVHOD AO LNAWALV.LS

O LIGIHX4

SQNNad ALVATYd

NOILNLILSNT NVINOSHLING
SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965

416

br 89 “ole ‘7H = (90 99 ‘19Z)$ 0Z ‘206 “E194 IL 806 ‘S19$ 6S “Crs ‘1SE ‘1H Jeak Jo pus je sourjeg

08 “SEE ‘OVS “ZL 6€ *L68 “SOE ‘E OL 096 ‘P86 “L IL “SEZ “6rE 09 “Sv “906 suonyjonpep [eo J,
16 ‘OLY “SGI Sere) sys! sl iene 6 we ceee 16 ‘OLY cGGT oe She 6 wane hk washsded 4 Ve 2 Wie Ge 6 0 0 fc 0.» «6 5 popuedxoun saeok Jord jo punjoy
68 ‘198 ‘06¢ ‘ZL 6€ *L68 “SOE ‘€ 6L ‘€8r “678 ‘L IL “SEZ ‘“6rE 09 “Stz “906 SIajsuer} [RIO T,
Cv ‘281 ‘6t (6L “LLZ ‘T1) G/U LEGaEL (ZS “8Z¢) S6 ‘09S ‘“6L
oe).e) ee elu sl acele elesane GEaatp) 6LPLEEVT Daets ova wroveret es) «6 Cat ee ad Ye. a) a da et $}]9V.1]}U09 OF,
je ecco ie «)-ehis, te eke © © 0) 6 © elles Biebh,"e Vetin, ofe siele Per STMSERRND S05 2 COG) ZS BLE SYIs OF,
$9 ‘ILI AD; wie af s\le\s, af'e! a, wah wine, « ite. o cal ime ute de 40 BSD fe = eee Pelleits cha fe ip sale 6 $9 AAD ads UOUIISOAUI IO} spunj POITISOL OT,
6L ‘OL0 ‘ZL Gite & we) a6: (@ 6 e le ache, w Reife is enlibe| 06. esi 6.e: 8. |) lun 6 nis) 6» 616 6lereMs' 6L ‘O10 ain jedioursd 01 poppe ouIOdUT
IYO
Or “6L9 ‘ILE “CI 81 ‘SLI “LIE “¢ 00 ‘907 ‘818 ‘Z €9 “€19 ‘“6bE G9 “¥89 “988
68 ‘Orr “IE Olle! /e)rs) plist) «eset s ed Bilbice as eilp.6ceke iis espe, — Leics pie elm tee elie ena 63 ‘Orr ‘TE SUIOOUI popucdxoup,
CE ‘TO *€80 oa +9 699 ALG IL "CLE ‘OLS oT einanie eel pie iele is . ee renee Be elle sia 6 ® pesy19AO
OF "7S6 “LOP ‘6 vS "SOS ‘V08S 6c CEB ‘L¥c°9 C9 "ETD ‘OPE aH CEA ae 83809 91
+9 ‘O1Z ‘DLL CML Ly CL. tan yoryeCh ry Sik) oue® | >) (@: ee a). ets. o)-ee) @icetln) an e ROke spies). eee eeree . 19 ‘O1Z ‘DLL spunj Poq1I1js910
80 'Sr8 ‘IZL PsP Uplhice CSC Cy Ose Cl) . CECE Ch Cette ice THO eee eke cto lets ese 1s oe © a) 8 80 *b9 “TZ spuny po}0TIso1 110
OL “SSL ‘6SS ore ee wee ae Bo afeceis, ele shoud ® setele ele « wc Rew eke leks) p chia temp oe ad OL ‘S8I ‘6SS yy jo Asoqyex) JOO,
: 9MI09UI JUOTING OL
:SIOfSUeLT,
Jonpygd
7210 T, SJIDAQUO) SJUDIN) Ufty auLojur
sasoging yorads sof spumy papuagxauy

penunuo)—sSaNna aLyATdd
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

PRIVATE FUNDS

EXHIBIT

STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN PRINCIPAL OF ENDOWMENT
FUNDS AND FUNDS FUNCTIONING AS ENDOWMENT

YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 1965

Balance at beginning of year

Add:
Income added to principal as prescribed by donor
Transfer from unexpended income for investment
Net gain on investments

Balance at end of year

Balance at end of year consisting of:
Freer Gallery of Art
Other:
Restricted
General

$19, 220, 868.
12, 010.
TAT.

419, 537.

19, 659, 588.

11, 345, 500.

3, 035, 578.
5, 278, 509.

$19, 659, 588.

417

D

62
79
64
88

93

13

34
86

93
SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965

418

€G “BEI ‘190 ‘el$
LO 6S¢ “689

98 “09€ “OE
00 ‘OOT ‘TE
ZO ‘OIS ‘E94
61 ‘88h “FOL

Ov 629 ‘ILE ‘ZI
€3 Orr ‘IE
+9 699 ‘ZIS
TL ‘GLE “OLS I

9b TS6 ‘LOF ‘6
v9 ‘OI ‘PLT
80 ‘878 “IZ
OL “Sgt ‘oss$
[210],

lL @INGYHOS

¥S “SOS ‘08 ‘ZH

¥S “SOS ‘708 ‘Z

vS “SOS ‘P08 ‘z$

549D14UO!)

67 ‘€€8 ‘Lz ‘9$

67 “€£8 ‘LeT ‘9

67 “€€8 ‘Lez ‘9$

€9 “€19 “6re$ L0 ‘981 ‘659 ‘e$

LO ‘6S¥ “689

a) (oire: e)-0) fe) shi) (eo) ellareire .@ 98 09¢ “oc
moomoo o ob loo 00 ‘001 BiG
Cech Doda Oe O O CC ZO ‘OIS ‘COP
SOU 5 Opodo oo OOO 61 *O8p ‘DOL

€9 “€19 ‘“6rE 00 “LZZ “696 ‘Z
3 A ei 0 OO De, On 8 ‘Orr “NG
niewal wiLemalnelteltel’s).ecinl sae, +9 699 SZALG
wilcelsiselisisolisiselistio’ iiiaice IZ SHAG ‘OLS ay
€9 ‘€L9 “ores 0, ole) iene) oe) 8.16 V/s 1s wile e
yoetiermt) Cx) Petr ch dO +9 ‘O1Z ‘PLL

yor) Cerca Cleon 80 ‘8r8 SAL

ep ralce—mceika) uiraetie? bl er éxKe OL “SBI “6ss¢

sty suoyv1ag Q

s96t ‘og ANOL GAGNaA UVAA
SLdIgOaN GNOA INAMAND AO ATNGAHOS

NOILOLIILSNT NVINOSHLING

sydtaoa1 [e1Oy,
sjd19901 19430 [2107

SNODULT[IOSTAY
SID
sydeisojoyd pue suonvoyqng
DUIOOUT JUDUTASIAT]
syd1s921 19410

sioJsued} [210],

autoour popusdxaug
s.oe.UOTF
squRIy

:PEIYIZAQ,

S09 1991IP—s}IV.QUOD PUB sJUeIS ‘SyTD
poe1oi.yso1u
spuny pojoWysar 19y1O
yay jo Aroyeg 19917

:QUIODUT JUIUIMOpUT

Spun] 19710 UIOI, PoIoJsues T,
419

REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE

Bee at city ee ae opi tl Cahners ah ro ec ee 6€ '8¢8 ‘Shb sydvisojoyd pue uoneorqng
SUMicos ae MP gees clos. ss) Roe oe ee ne 85 ‘978 JIyIO
€€ “€£9 ‘1SG SS “ESP ‘b9 Cr “€60 ‘bb LE ‘O77 ‘TT 86 $99 ‘IZ speizojyeur pue soyddns 19439
86 “b€6 ‘LLE €L °€92 “bl LL ‘LOZ ‘TLZ 69 “ELL ‘Tt 6L 689 ‘OE 4jddns pue juourdinby
97 ‘ZL8 ‘LIT 8L ¥S6 ‘bL €Z 880 ‘18 €L 6vE ‘LI ZS ‘OLY “b ssury) jo uonesodsuesy,
Ip ‘788 ‘Sor CE OLb ‘bel 81 PL6 ‘£97 Gb Shs “6S Cr 988 ‘LE suosiod jo uonejsodsuey pur joarry,
:sosuodxa 9A] BI)
-SIUTUI pe pe} Plor pue uo1ne10jdxa pue SOYIIBIIY
ror) AHS ‘C67 SUORC HELEN 6 Py aw sie.  Wi'wed: o> qulefiedeubh by elu.) 6 GS 186 62 Sr ‘LOE “697 UO1}Da][09 IO} oseyoing
6S ‘ZIT ‘OZS ‘S 1S 988 ‘vOS LO “v10 “895 “¢ 61 ‘919 ‘98 78 “S6S ‘O9E ‘T SOMERS [230 J,
+0 ‘9b “Ezz LE “1L8 ‘81 CGROCE NOG = Wi mr oe tecpwe al: PL “80 “VS syyousq sadodurgq
68 “LS8 ‘89 94 °9L9 ‘OL CORUEV IOC cece ae oes ee 06 “£00 ‘ZE IO
0S ‘6LS ‘€Z0 “bv BE BEE ‘OIE 68 ILI ‘LLE ‘€ 61 919 ‘984 v0 “€Sb ‘06 yoreasay
Ol 6S7Z ‘b0Z ‘T¢ WELWN ie Uniins usa: em en elveleiaute cr 8tr “Oz¢ wisn: /¢euie Wn ef piusmeivel 6) 61 *e vL 0E8 rated | “TH 9ATJE.SIUTUIpY
]2j0 L SJIDAZUO!) SJUDAL) sift) suonvseg gC sSOTIe[eg

S961 ‘og ANN GAGNA UVAA
SINGNISUNASIG GNNA INAWAND AO AINaGTHDS

NOILALILSN] NVINOSHLING
¢ TINGAHOS
SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965

420

IL “6vE “€80 ‘71S

8Z “P76 “SEZ
G6 °29S

60 958 ‘LI
€r 19¢ ‘Tl
16 8¢6 ‘COT
G8 09¢ ‘*€
69 *L08 ‘tz

¥S “pr0 ‘80r ‘T
G8 ‘198 ‘LOL ‘T
1S ‘16h ‘OTL

Lv ‘091 “619

68 19T ‘S

O€ “682

89 “Z0S ‘ecg
1919,

pS SOS ‘p08 ‘ZH = 67 “EE8 ‘LHZ ‘OS

88 “£07 ‘BT v1 ‘vO? ‘L8T
7 Ibe ‘€ IL €vl ‘8Z
¥6 ‘TG ‘EST Er ‘Ors “908
G3 198 ‘LOL ‘T eeoeceec eee eee eee
LL ‘99S ‘71 66 “VIS ‘6L
+6 “€S9 ‘SCs zz 9SL ‘“Sos¢
. 6 Teds egete ie s sie . Z9 ‘7£0 ‘ct
579D1]U0) SJUDIN)

€9 E19 “ores

ZO “86S ‘€

59 “96¢ ‘189 ‘“c$

v7 ‘816 ‘97
G6 ‘29S

60 ‘958 “LI
Cr 19 “IL
O€ “1S0 ‘TE
G3 ‘09¢ ‘E
69 ‘L08 “tz

19 696 ‘69

GL ‘60r ‘SI

0S “Lz¢ “LL

68 ‘19L ‘S

O€ *68L

90 OL ‘O¢$
su01jos1agQ)

s}UsMIsINsIp JUILINS [BIO],

ydeisaja} pue ‘ouoydeye? ‘aseysog
soyddns soyjo pue Artau0neIg
Sysop sa[eS
Areiqry
suononpoidei pue sunulig
$91njIo'T
s}iqiyxo yeroods ‘ssunosy[
:sosuadxa pue sorddng
SOOTAIIS IOYIO
syoesjyuOIqnsg
aoynduror
:SQOIAJOsS [eN}IeIQUOT)
sontfian pue sysy
Aro} e10ge] [edTUYy 99 J,
QoULUDUIeU spuNnois puke WNOD
suo eTTeSsUI pue ssuIpTIng
:spunois pue “uourdmboe ‘ssurpring

penuljuoO—S, LNAWaASUNASIG GNONA LNAWANO AO AINGAHOS
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 421

The practice of maintaining savings accounts in several of the Wash-
ington banks and trust companies has been continued during the past
year, and interest on these deposits amounted to $4,017.04.

Deposits are made in banks for convenience in collection of checks,
and later such funds are withdrawn and deposited in the United States
Treasury. Disbursement of funds is made by check signed by the Secre-
tary of the Institution and drawn on the United States Treasury.

The Institution gratefully acknowledges gifts and grants from the
following:

Ernest L. Abernathy, a gift to the Satellite General Program.

American Heritage Publishing Company, a gift for the purchase of historical
materials for the National Air Museum.

American Petroleum Institute, a grant for research entitled ““The Crustose
Corallines of the North Atlantic.”

American Philosophical Society, a grant to defray expenses for expedition to
Greece and Turkey.

Anonymous donor, a gift for the Department of Botany.

Anonymous donor, a gift to the Smithsonian Institution Bicentennial Ceremony.

Anonymous donor, a gift for the restoration of the Belmont furniture.

Appalachian Power Company, a grant for the survey of the areas on the New
River in Virginia and North Carolina.

Archbold Foundation, a grant for the support of research entitled ‘Biological
Survey of Dominica Project.”

Atomic Energy Commission, a grant for research entitled ““A Study of the
Biochemical Effects of Ionizing and Nonionizing Radiation on Plant Metab-
olism During Development.”

Bredin Foundation, a grant for the support of research entitled “Biological
Survey of dominica Project.”

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Campbell, a gift to the Zoo Animal Fund.

Joanne Toor Cummings, a gift for the purpose of acquiring ceramics and glass.

DeBeers Consolidated Mines, Ltd., a gift to defray travel expenses to South
Africa.

Department of Agriculture, a grant toward the purchase of the J. Douglas Hood
Collection of thrips.

Department of Air Force:

Grant for the support of research entitled “Study of Atomic and Electronic
Collision Processes which occur in the Atmosphere at Auroral Heights.”
Grant for studies directed toward the development of a technique for measur-

ing wind speed and direction at heights using ionized paths generated by
meteors.
Grant for the purpose of training personnel in tracking space object #388.
Grant for the purpose of the observation in tracking space object #388.
Grant for the purpose of training 8 personnel on the Baker-Nunn.
Grant to provide optical satellite tracking support for two flights for program
162:
Grant for thesupport ofresearch entitled “‘Researches—Molecular Collisions.”
422 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965

Grant for the support of research entitled ‘Compilation of a Subject Index
and Cross Reference Listing for the 1964 OAR-AFRR.”

Department of Army:

Grant for the support of basic research entitled ‘Potential Vectors and
Reservoirs of Disease in Strategic Overseas Area.”

Grant for the support of research entitled ‘Mammals and Their Ectoparasites
from Iran.”

Grant for support of research on the analysis of bird migration in the
Pacific Area and the study of the ecology of birds and mammals on one or
more Pacific Islands.

Grant for the support of research entitled ‘“The Mosquitoes of Southeast
Asia.”

Department of Interior:

Grant for the support of research entitled ““Bird Guide.”

Grant for the support of research entitled ““Tropical Fishes.”

Grant for the purpose for the preparation of camera-ready copy of research
data suitable for photocopying and printing as a current Water Resources
Research Catalog.

Department of Navy, a grant for the support of the Careers in Oceanography
Fund.

James M. Doubleday, a gift to the Historic Dresses. Fund.

Carl Dry, a gift for support of Smithsonian Institution’s participation in an
around the world cruise by Thomas Kurth and party.

Ford Motor Co., a gift in support of the model foundry for the Iron and Steel
Hall.

General Motors Corporation, a gift to defray expenses in connection with
International Council of Museums Committee for Museums of Science and
Technology.

Mrs. Robert H. Goddard, a gift for the Robert H. Goddard Memorial Fund.

R. M. Griffin, a gift to the Zoo Animal Fund.

E. P. Henderson, a gift for the support of research entitled “‘Meteorite and
Tektite Research Fund.”

Historical Society of Montana, a contribution for the support of the Smithsonian
Institution.

Ethel R. Holmes, a gift for the Milton A. Holmes Memorial Fund
*“Numismatics.”

Ethel R. Holmes, a gift for the Milton A. Holmes Memorial Fund “Philately.”

International Association of Geodesy, a gift for the support of operation of
Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory’s Central Bureau of Geodesy.

International Astronomical Union, a gift for the support of the Central Bureau
for Astronomical Telegrams.

Felix and Helen Juda Foundation, a gift to the Freer Gallery of Art for the
purchase of collections.

Joseph H. Kler, a gift for the Delaware Log House Exhibit.

H. P. Kraus, a gift to the Freer Gallery of Art Library Fund.
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 423

Edwin A. Link, a gift for the support of the Oceanography Program of the
Smithsonian Institution.
Link Foundation:
Grant for the support of the Second Annual Edwin A. Link Lecture.
Grant for the preparation of a leaflet about the Oceanographic Sorting
Center.
Eugene and Agnes Meyer Foundation, a gift for the James Smithson Bicen-
tennial Celebration.
J. Jefferson Miller II, gift for the Gardner-Miller Ceramics and Glass Fund.
Kathryn and Gilbert Miller Fund, Incorporated, gift for the support of the
National Portrait Gallery.
Jacques Minkus, gift for the purchase of Eleanor Roosevelt’s eyeglasses and
chain.
Ambrose Monell Foundation, gift for the James Smithson Bicentennial
Celebration.
National Aeronautics and Space Administration:
Grant for the procurement of photoreduction equipment for Satellite Track-
ing Program.
Grant for the support of research entitled “Optical Satellite Tracking
Program.”
Grant for the support of research entitled ““Textures of Meteorites.”’
Grant for research of the systematic recovery of meteorites and the photog-
raphy of meteorites in flight.
Grant for the support of basic scientific research entitled “Physical and
Chemical Investigations of Tektites and Related Glassy Materials.”
Grant for research studies in the recovery and analysis of space fragments.
Grant for the scientific and engineering study for instrumenting an orbiting
telescope.
Grant for research entitled “Computation of Data Reduction of S-16 High
Energy Gamma-Ray Experiment.”
National Geographic Society:
Grant for support of research entitled “‘Investigation of the Crustose Coralline
of North America.”
Grant for support of an aerial survey of Stonehenge and Callanish.
Grant for support of meteorite-tektite studies in Australia.
National Lead Company, gift for the design and furnishing of an exhibit on
drilling mud.
National Science Foundation:
Additional grants for the support of research projects entitled as follows:
‘Early Tertiary Mammals of North America.”
‘Earth Albedo Observations.”
“Revisionary Study of Blattoidea.”
“Rare Gases in Meteorites.”
“Morphology and Paleoecology of Permian Branchiopods of the Glass
Mountain, Texas.”
424 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965

‘South Asian Microlepidoptera, particularly the Philippine Series.”

“Photoresponse and Optical Properties of Phycomyces Sporangiophores.”

“Taxonomy of Bamboos.”

“Lower Cretaceous Ostracoda of Israel.”

*“Marine Mollusks of Polynesia.”

“Tertiary Echinoids of the Eastern United States and the Caribbean.”

*““Zoogeography of Southern Ocean Sclearactinian Coral Faunas.”

*“The American Commensal Crabs of the Family Pinnotheridae.”

**Indo-Australian Vespidae sens. lat. and Specidae.”

“Support of publication of an English translation of Flora of Japan, by
Jisaburo Ohwi.”

**Revision of Genera of Paleozoic Bryozoa.”

‘‘Monographic Studies of the Tingidae of the World.”

‘Study of Type Specimens of Ferns in European Herbaria.”

**Polychaetous Annelids of New England.”

**The Phanerogams of Colombia.”

*‘Monograph of Parmelia Subgenus Xanthoparmelia.”

**Revision of Scarab Beetles of the Genus Ataenius.”

“Systemic Studies of the Archidaceae, Subtribe Epidendrinae.”

**A Monograph of the Stomatopod Crustaceans of the Western Atlantic.”

“Recording of Data for Specimens Collected During the U.S. Antarctic
Program.”

“Distribution of North America Calanoid and Harpacticoid Copepoda.”

**Magalithic Structures of Panope.”

‘Collection of Meteorites and Tektites in Australia.”

‘Installation of powerline to Barro Colorado from Mainland.”

‘“‘Upper Cretaceous Inoceraminae in North America and Western Europe.”

“Environment of Permo-Triassic Reptiles of the Order Therapsida in
South Africa.”

**Taxonomic and Biological Studies of Neotropical Water Beetles.”

**Evolution and Distribution of Parmelia in Eastern Asia and Pacific.”

“Sorting of U.S. Antarctic Research Program Biological Collections.”

“Taxonomic Studies of the Family Stenomidae in Neotropical Region.”

**Pre-Industrial System of Water Management in Arid Region.”

“Effects of Displacement.”

“Revisionary Studies in the Chilopoda.”

*‘Photographic Investigations of Comets.”

**Purchase of the Hood Collection of Thrips.”

**Archeological Survey of Southwestern Kansas.”

‘Taxonomic and Biological Studies on Central American Caddisflies.”

“Undergraduate Research Participation Program.”

“Identification Guide to Antarctic Birds.”

‘Ostracoda of the Indian Ocean.”

“Sorting of Collections from the U.S. Antarctic Research Program.”

‘Sorting of Collections from the International Indian Ocean Expedition.”
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 425

“Systematic of the Antarctic and Sub-Antarctic Gammaridean
Amphipods.”
“Eltanin Cruise Participations.”
‘*Stellar Atmospheres.”
“Comparative Study of Molluscan Faunas of Tertiary Stages.”
‘““The Mammals of Panama.”
“Systematics of Stomiatoid Fishes.”
“Cooperative Systematics Studies in Antarctic Biology.”
Neinken Foundation, a gift for defraying the cost to Europe in order to investi-
gate collections.
H. F. O’Brien, grant for work in marine archeology to be known as the O’Brien
Marine Archeology Fund.
Office of Naval Research:
Grant for the purpose of conducting a conference on ‘‘The Formation of
Spectrum Lines.”
Grant to perform aeronautical research studies.
Grant to provide expert consultants to advise the Navy Advisory Committee.
Grant for the purpose of conducting systematic zoological research on the
marine fauna of Tropical Pacific Area.
Grant to perform psychological research studies.
Grant for the support of research entitled ‘Information of Shark Distribution,
and Distribution of Shark Attack all over the World.”
Grant for studies concerning the development of a proposal for an institute for
Laboratory of human performance standards.
Grant for research entitled ‘‘Behavior of Animals Associated with Coral
Reefs.”
Grant for research entitled ““Microlepidoptera of the Island of Rapa.”
Grant for support of research entitled “Studies of the Ecology, Distribution
and Classification of South American Birds.”
Research Corporation, grant for its convocation of prominent scholars and
scientists in recognition of the Smithson Bicentennial Celebration.
Bernard T. Rocca, Sr., gift to purchase a very fine gold nugget from Colombia.
Bernard T. Rocca, Sr., gift to the Rocca Fund.
Rockefeller Foundation, grant for support of research entitled ‘Relationship
of Birds to Arthropod Transmitted Virus Disease.”
S and H Foundation, grant to help defray the expense of the Bicentennial
Celebration of the birth of James Smithson.
Frank R. Schwengel, grant to the Jeanne Schwengel Memorial Fund.
Montgomery Scott Company, grant to the Burleigh Rock Drill Fund.
Shell Oil Foundation, grant for the purchase of photographs of World War I.
Sidney Printing and Publishing Company, grant for the purchase of U.S. coins.
Alfred P. Sloan Foundation, grant for support of the observance of the 200th
anniversary of the birth of the founder of the Smithsonian Institution.
E. R. Squibb and Sons, grant for the purpose of enriching the Squibb Ancient
Pharmacy.
St. Petersburg Shell Company, grant for the St. Petersburg Shell Company
Fund.
789-427—_66——-40
426 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965

For the purpose of the Smithson Bicentennial Ceremony:

Anonymous Alexander C. Liggett

Laura D. Barney Henry P. McIlhenny

John Nicholas Brown Paul Mellon

Mrs. Henry Cook Mrs. Paul Moore

David and Margey Finley Mrs. William Morden
Crawford H. Greenwald Marjorie Merriweather Post
Wilmarth Lewis Thomas Watson

United States Steel Company, grant to defray the cost of a model of an in-
tegrated steel plant.

University of Michigan, a contribution to the Freer Gallery of Art for the ARS
ORIENTALIS Fund.

I. E. Wallen, a grant to provide for underseas vehicle experience by the
Smithsonian Institution staff.

C. Malcolm Watkins, a grant for the purchase of New York State pottery.

Ellen Bayard Weedon Foundation, gift to the Freer Gallery of Art for the
Library Fund.

Wenner-Gren Foundation, a grant to.aid steady and analysis of skeletal ma-
terial from Near Eastern sites.

Wenner-Gren Foundation, a grant to aid attendance of non-U.S. anthropolo-
gists at the Bicentennial celebration of the birth of James Smithson.

Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution, grant to permit the participation in
the International Indian Ocean Expedition.

Charles M. Wormser, grant to provide acquisitions for the Division of
Numismatics.

The following appropriations were made by Congress for the Govern-
ment bureaus under the administrative charge of the Smithsonian
Institution for the fiscal year 1965:

Salaries and Expenses, $320.0 cagg ego 3) oe ys, 0 ode «a
National Zoological Park . ... . ermrermmens  Geisior anol!
The appropriation made to the N inal Galery ite ae (which is a

bureau of the Smithsonian Institution) was ...... . . $2,176,000. 00

In addition, funds were transferred from other Government agencies
for expenditure under the direction of the Smithsonian Institution as
follows:

Working funds, transferred from the National Park Service,

Interior Department, for archeological investigations in river
basins throughout the United States. . . .....+5+-.+.-: $237, 000. 00

The Institution also administers a trust fund for partial support of the
Canal Zone Biological Area, located on Barro Colorado Island in the
Canal Zone.

ct na a
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 427

AUDIT

The report of the audit of the Smithsonian Private Funds follows:

THE BOARD OF REGENTS,
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20560

We have examined the balance sheet of private funds of Smithsonian Insti-
tution as of June 30, 1965, and the related statement of current general private
fund receipts and disbursements and several statements of changes in funds
for the year then ended. Our examination was made in accordance with
generally accepted auditing standards, and accordingly included such tests of
the accounting records and such other auditing procedures as we considered
necessary in the circumstances.

Except for certain real estate acquired by gift or purchased from proceeds
of gifts which are valued at cost or appraised value at date of gift, land, build-
ings, furniture, equipment, works of art, living and other specimens and certain
sundry property are not included in the accounts of the Institution; likewise,
the accompanying statements do not include the National Gallery of Art, the
John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts and other departments,
bureaus and operations administered by the Institution under Federal Appro-
priations. The accounts of the Institution are maintained on the basis of cash
receipts and disbursements, with the result that the accompanying statements
do not reflect income earned but not collected or expenses incurred but not paid.

In our opinion, subject to the matters referred to in the preceding paragraph,
the accompanying statement of private funds presents fairly the assets and funds
principal of Smithsonian Institution at June 30, 1965; further, the accompany-
ing statement of current general private fund receipts and disbursements and
several statements of changes in funds, which have been prepared on a basis
consistent with that of the preceding year, present fairly the cash transactions
of the private funds for the year then ended.

Washington, D.C. PEAT, MARWICK, MITCHELL & CO.
October 8, 1965

Respectfully submitted:
RosertT V. FLEMING
Cary P. Haskins
CLINTON P. ANDERSON
Executive Committee.
%

Che

ay
Tae Soe eVEMOD a Mate sdebogar aM iy 4 THOS T ee a:
“ib

‘
ae Tah

a ia JA

Vee ; AyS5nchh 4 ee ESRD

! \ hy he he
neal capsoen) uric, lo, uborugs} sieving bo teorla 9 said ‘old age
she ving. ip toro NEST ws ta toseraiess betgion a nae
s lartvee bas anomeensaee:

is

ebay! mi exgneds To abmroine
di Sonebibood “nt oDider Baw iroifsaionexs wo *
1 Seay Gay bobulsad danibiorx.e bee ebssbaste gripes
‘iSbiktion ow eh eohoooiy guido Hilo itive bak whaod
ie
ebdaooe aie betsd ind so slia yd Houpos ote Lisanne
Blind orist Tihy 18 Se te stitey b ig 1 $209 Ts balay
nistisy bie shieiniasee adto big gutyil ss akvow Mesberegieg
“dnwostt SuGtaent sd} Falareaoboe He ai bSbsiode we . ‘ied
tA Yo Pistige) laaui ul4 ect abulon? too ab alr omaiste g Ae a
naam taqab! tortto” Bie et ghana ‘ot tof “om Some
~ongayh {isbo'T Shas to! Gidiieel oda yd bovieinieabhs enoitsa
Hees 16" sed 2dt ao WeaTsroista ss nolan teh oe 16 ame
enidttiotsis gaivasqaro36s sift! sarty Sheed Sit fiw ins
‘Slag for td betiisitiekn sx Geinslics iis sud Bethe,
eperaeisey grifysdone Mort tte OF berntyt wiorifein orl of sonics
shatil Bine drseek Sad Grist atinertg diet hyyEny We tases
“inne ys ‘gfg radial :2aet OF snut, 36 soltutiten! conkeos it
bus atnomaeudeth bas eiqia7 brut staving, Issengg torr,
siend a nb boreqeig nas wen": A5ihy aban a eat ee ones
enon ioaewaniy eso st christ faster bor “aitib: sith “nly We 2800 8
BSobao cot assy ott sol obra

09'S IARSTIM AOL HAM, TAGS

ivy ‘Me
lhe aprotirats . at TV “se PaR ry re tA
beishieay ot the See LEE ee A Pen
lov SOY raat’ trandforied Trac oO

avapeneh UE grdaD the direction ex tne Sant
yieasaué 4 vorvnid tit
pyaar d, sha fered: Sraeti antes, satis ce Sania
Jetenign Departaninet, Fat anemic) (Mar emn ger Te

bisim Unouehcut the Dau Dias whee ian a

en

The Tnatiotionalee Ue Eee Capel for te
Carat Zone Biological Aree, Tete ty Bore Gaile i
Canal Zones) a

Til ep ayy na

nhl “

‘hae ar bale my j

STAFF OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Office of the Secretary

Special Assistants

Executive Assistant
Treasurer

General Counsel

Editorial and Publications
Education and Training
Library

Library of Congress Liaison
Fine Arts Special Project
Special Projects

Smithsonian Museum
Service
Personnel
Buildings Management
Supply Division
Photographic Services Division

June 30, 1965

THEODORE W. Tay or, Assistant to the Secre-
tary

Puitie C, RITTERBUSH, scientific matters

Witiiam W. WARNER, international activities

Joun WHITELAW, research staff

Rosert W. Mason

Otis O. MarTIN

PETER G. Powers

Paut H. Oruser, Chief

JeRoLD RoscuHwa cs, Assistant Director

Mrs. Mary A. Hurrer, Acting Librarian

RutH E. BLANCHARD

Tuomas M. Beccs

RoBERT N. CunniINGcHAM, Director, Smithson
Bicentennial Celebration

G. Carrot LinpsAy, Curator

J. A. Kennepy, Director

ANDREW F. MicHaets, JR., Director
A. W. Witp1nc, Chief

O. H. Greeson, Chief

Honorary Smithsonian Fellows, Associates, Collaborators, Custodians
of Collections, and Honorary Curators

Anthropology

Vertebrate Zoology

Joun M. Campsett (Archeology), Sister InEz
Hitcer (Ethnology), C. G. HoLianp (Arche-
ology), Nem M. Jupp (Archeology), Oca
LINARES DE Sapir (Archeology), Betry J.
Meccers (Archeology), Frank H. H.
Roserts, JR. (Archeology), MaTrHew W.
Stiriinc (Archeology), WALTER W. TayLor,
Jr. (Anthropology), Witr1am J. Tosin
(Physical Anthropology), NATHALIE F. S.
Woopsury (Archeology)

Joun W. Avpricu (Birds), Oxtver L. Austin
(Birds), LEONARD CARMICHAEL (Psychology
and Animal Behavior), Hersert G. DeIc-
NAN (Birds), Roperr W. Ficken (Birds),
HERBERT FRIEDMANN (Birds), LAURENCE
Irvine (Birds), E. V. KomareK (Mammals),
RicHARD H. MANVILLE (Mammals),
MicHAEL Patmteri (Birds), Dioscoro S.

429
430

Invertebrate Zoology

Entomology

Botany

Paleobiology

Mineral Sciences

Science and Technology
Arts and Manufactures
Civil History

SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965

Rasor (Birds), Lester L. Suort (Birds),
RoserRT TRAuB (Mammals), ALEXANDER
WETMORE (Birds)

Wittarp W. Beckitunp (Helminthology),
J. Bruce Brepin (Biology), Aisa M. CLark
(Marine Invertebrates), ALLEN MclIntosu
(Mollusks), J. Percy Moore! (Marine In-
vertebrates), Watpo L. Scumirr (Marine
Invertebrates), BENJAMIN ScHWARTz (Hel-
minthology), Mrs. MiILtprReD STRATTON
Witson (Copepod Crustacea)

Doris H. BiakE (Coleoptera), MELBOURNE
A. CARRIKER, JR.2. (Mallophaga), Cart J.
Drake? (Hemiptera), K. C. Emerson (Mal-
lophaga), Frank M. Hutt (Diptera),
Witu1am L. JevLyison (Siphonaptera, Ano-
plura), Cart F. W. Muesepecx (Hy-
menoptera), THomAs E. Snyper (Isoptera)

CuesTER R. BENJAMIN (Fungi), José CUATRE-
casas (Flora of Tropical South America),
Francis R. Fossperc (Pacific Floras), EMERY
C. Leonarp (Acanthaceae), ELsert L.
LirtLeE, Jr. (Dendrology), Froyp A.
McCuure (Bamboos), Kirrr F. PARKER
(Compositae), Joun A. STEVENSON (Fungi),
EcBerT H. WALKER (Myrsinaceae, Eastern
Asian Floras), WitLt1am N. Watkins (Woods)

C. WyTHE Cooke (Invertebrate Paleontology),
J. Tuomas Durro (Invertebrate Paleon-
tology), Remincton KeELiocc (Vertebrate
Paleontology), AxEL A. Otsson (Inverte-
brate Paleontology), Franco Raserti (In-
vertebrate Paleontology), WENDELL P.
Wooprinc (Invertebrate Paleontology)

GuNNAR KuLLERUD (Meteorites), WALDEMAR
T. ScHALLER (Mineralogy)

DEREK J. DE SOLLA PRICE

Hans Syz (Ceramics)

Mrs. ArTHUR M. GrEENWoop (Cultural
History), Ermer C. Herser (History),
Ivor NoEL Hume (Cultural History), Frep
W. McKay (Numismatics), Mrs. Emery
May Norwes (Numismatics), R. HENRY
Norwes (Numismatics), Mrs. JoAN PEAR-
son Watkins (Cultural History)

1 Deceased March 1, 1965. 2 Deceased July 27, 1965. 3 Deceased October 2, 1965.
STAFF OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION 431

Armed Forces History WILLIAM REA FuRLONG, FREDERIC C. LANE,
Byron McCANDLEssS

Exhibits W. L. Brown (Taxidermy)

Smithsonian Astrophysical CHARLES G. ABBOT

Observatory

Freer Gallery of Art OLeG GraBaR, GRAcE DuNHAM Guest *, Max
LoEHR, KATHERINE N. RHOADES

National Air Museum FREDERICK C. CRAWFORD, ALFRED V. VER-
VILLE

National Zoological Park E. P. WALKER

Canal Zone Biological Area C. C. Soper

UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM

Director FRANK A. TAYLOR
Registrar HELENA M. WEIss
Exhibits Labels Editor GEORGE WEINER

Office of Exhibits Joun E. Ancuim, Chief

Natural History Laboratory A. GILBERT Wricut, Assistant Chief
Juxius TRetick, Production Supervisor

History and Technology BenjAMIN W. Law ess, Chief
Laboratory Witi1aM M. Crark, JR., Production Super-
visor

Conservation Research Laboratory CHARLES H. OLIN, Chief
Mrs. JACQUELINE S. OLIN, Chemist

MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY

Director T. Date STEWART

Assistant Director for RicHarpD S. Cowan
Systematics

Assistant Director for Oceanog- 1. EUGENE WALLEN
raphy

Smithsonian Oceanographic H. Aparr FEHLMANN, Supervisory Museum

Sorting Center Specialist

Administrative Officer Mrs. MaBet A. Byrp

Smithsonian Office of RicHarp B. Woopsury, Acting Head
Anthropology Mrs. M. Braker, Archivist

Henry B. Co .tins, Senior Scientist

Wa .po R. WEDEL, Senior Scientist

JosEpH ANDREws, Exhibit Specialist
Cultural Anthropology Saut H. RiesenBerc, Curator in Charge

CLIFFORD Evans, JR., Associate Curator

WiuraM H. Crocker, Associate Curator

Kent V. FLANNERY, Associate Curator

‘Deceased July 7, 1964.
432

Physical Anthropology

River Basin Surveys
Vertebrate Zoology

Fishes

Reptiles and Amphibians

Birds

Mammals

Invertebrate Zoology
Marine Invertebrates

Mollusks

Entomology
Neuropteroids

SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965

Gorpon D. Grtsson, Associate Curator

Eucene I. Knez, Associate Curator

Rosert M. Laucuuin, Associate Curator

Wiu1aM C. STtuRTEVANT, Associate Curator

Gus W. Van BEEK, Associate Curator

J. Lawrence ANGEL, Curator in Charge

Lucite E. Hoye, Associate Curator

Rosert L. STEPHENSON, Acting Director

Puitip S. HumpuHrey, Chairman

LEONARD P. ScHULTz, Senior Scientist

Watson M. Perryco, Chief of Specimen Prep-
aration Laboratory

Ernest A. LAcHNER, Curator in Charge

Vicror G. SPRINGER, Associate Curator

WiiurAM R. Taytor, Associate Curator

STANLEY H. WeE!ITzMANn, Associate Curator

Rosert H. Gisps, Jr., Associate Curator

LEONARD P. ScHuttz, Senior Scientist

Doris M. Cocuran, Curator in Charge

James A. Peters, Associate Curator

GeorcE E. Watson, Acting Curator in Charge

RicHaArpD L. Zusi, Associate Curator

Pau. Sup, Associate Curator

Cuarces O. HANDLEY, JR., Curator in Charge

Henry W. SeETzER, Associate Curator

Davin H. Jounson, Research Curator

Donatp F. Squires, Chairman

Raymonp B. Manninc, Acting Curator in
Charge

Tuomas E. Bowman, Associate Curator

CHARLES E. Cutress, JR., Associate Curator

Marian H. Pettisone, Associate Curator

Davip L. Pawson, Associate Curator

MEREDITH L. JONES, Associate Curator

Louis S. Kornicker, Associate Curator

J. Laurens BARNARD, Associate Curator

W. Duane Hope, Associate Curator

RoceEr F. Cresszy, JR., Associate Curator

FENNER A. CHACE, JR., Senior Scientist

Horton H. Hoss, Jr., Senior Scientist

JosepH Rosewater, Acting Curator in Charge

JosepH P. E. Morrison, Associate Curator

Haratp A. REHDER, Research Curator

J. F. Gates CLarke, Chairman

Ouiver S. Fuint, Jr., Associate Curator in
Charge
STAFF OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION 433,

Lepidoptera

Coleoptera
Hemiptera

Myriapoda and Arachnida
Botany
Phanerogams

Ferns
Grasses

Cryptogams

Plant Anatomy

Fungi

Paleobiology

Invertebrate Paleontology

Vertebrate Paleontology

Paleobotany

Sedimentology

Dona.p R. Davis, Curator in Charge

W. DonaLp Duckwortu, Associate Curator

Wiu1AM D. Fietp, Associate Curator

Oscar L. CartwricuT, Curator in Charge

Paut J. SPANGLER, Associate Curator

RicHarD C. FROESCHNER, Associate Curator
in Charge

RavpH E. CraBILL, JR., Curator in Charge

WILLIAM L, STERN, Chairman

Lyman B. SmirH, Curator in Charge

WALLACE R. Ernst, Associate Curator

Dan H. Nicotson, Associate Curator

STANWYN G. SHETLER, Associate Curator

VELVA E. Rupp, Associate Curator

Joun J. Wurpack, Associate Curator

Conrap V. Morton, Curator in Charge

Davin B. LELLINGER, Associate Curator

Tuomas R. SopERsTRoM, Curator in Charge

Jason R. Swa..en, Research Scientist

Mason E. Hate, Jr., Curator in Charge

Pau S. Concer, Associate Curator

Harotp E. Rostnson, Associate Curator

E. YALE Dawson, Curator

Wi.u1aM L, STERN, Acting Curator in Charge

RicuArD H. Eype, Associate Curator

CuHEsTER R. Benjamin, Honorary Research
Associate in Charge

Joun A. Stevenson, Honorary Research Asso-
ciate

G. ArtHuR Cooper, Chairman

RicHARD S. BOARDMAN, Curator in Charge

Porter M. Kiser, Associate Curator

RICHARD CIFELLI, Associate Curator

Erte G. KaurrMan, Associate Curator

Martin A. Buzas, Associate Curator

RicHArD H. Benson, Associate Curator

Kennetu M. Towe, Associate Curator

C. Lewis Gazin, Curator in Charge

Davin H. DunkKLE, Associate Curator

Nicuo.as Horton III, Associate Curator

CLAYTON E. Ray, Associate Curator

Francis M. Hueser, Curator in Charge

WALTER H. Apey, Associate Curator

Jack W. Pierce, Curator in Charge
434

Mineral Sciences
Meteorites

Mineralogy

Petrology

SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965

GeorcE S. Switzer, Chairman

Kurt FRrepRIksson, Curator in Charge

Epwarp P. HENDERSON, Curator

Roy S. CLarkeE, JR., Chemist

Pau E. DesauTets, Associate Curator in
Charge

WiLt1amM ME :son, Associate Curator in Charge

MUSEUM OF HISTORY AND TECHNOLOGY

Director

Assistant Director
Liaison Editor
Administrative Officers
Science and Technology

Physical Sciences

Mechanical and Civil
Engineering

Electricity
Transportation

Medical Sciences

Arts and Manufactures
Manufactures and Heavy
Industries
Agriculture and Forest
Products
Textiles

Ceramics and Glass

Joun C. Ewers

Sitvio A. BEDINI

RocER PINEAU

WILLIAM E, BoyLe, VIRGINIA BEETS

Rosert P. Muttuaur, Chairman; in Charge
of Sections of Chemistry and Meteorology

DexzoraH J. MILts, Assistant Curator

WaL.TeR F. Cannon, Curator in Charge;
Sections of Astronomy and Physics

Ura C. Merzsacn, Associate Curator, Sec-
tions of Mathematics and Antique Instru-
ments

Rospert M. Voce, Associate Curator in
Charge; Sections of Heavy Machinery, Tools,
and Civil Engineering

Epwin A. Batrtison, Associate Curator, Sec-
tions of Light Machinery and Horology

BERNARD S. Finn, Curator

Howarp I. CuHAPELLE, Curator in Charge;
Section of Marine Transportation

KENNETH M. Perry, Associate Curator

Joun H. Wuire, Jr., Associate Curator, Sec-
tion of Land Transportation

Sami K. HaMARNEH, Curator in Charge;
Sections of Medical and Dental History and
Pharmaceutical History and Health

Puitie W. BisHop, Chairman

Puiuie W. Bisuop, Acting Curator

Joun N. Horrman, Associate Curator

Joun T. ScHLEBECKER, Curator

Mrs. GRACE RoGErRs Cooper, Curator
Rira J. ApRosko, Associate Curator

Pau. V. GARDNER, Curator

J. JEFFERSON MILxeER II, Associate Curator
STAFF OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION 435

Graphic Arts

Civil History

Political History

Cultural History

Philately and Postal History
Numismatics

Armed Forces History
Miltary History

Naval History

Jacos KaInen, Curator

EuceNnEe Ostrorr, Associate Curator, Section
of Photography

RicHARD H. How.anp, Chairman

PETER C. WELsH, Curator

Mrs. Doris E. Bortuwick, Assistant Curator

ANNE CASTRODALE, Assistant Curator

Witcoms E. Wasupurn, Curator

Mrs. MarcGaretT B. Kuapruor, Associate
Curator

KeirH E. MELpDER, Associate Curator

Mrs, ANNE W. Murray, Associate Curator

HERBERT R. Co..ins, Assistant Curator

Mrs. CiaupiA B. KIpweELt, Assistant Curator

C. Matcotm Watkins, Curator

Howarp M. Brown, Associate Curator

Mrs. CyntTHt1A A. Hoover, Associate Curator

Ropris C. Rotu, Associate Curator

Caru H. ScHEELE, Associate Curator in Charge

VLADIMIR CLAIN-STEFANELLI, Curator

Mrs. EtvirA CLAIN-STEFANELLI, Associate
Curator

MENDEL L. PETERSON, Chairman

Epcar M. Howe zt, Curator

Crappock R. Goins, JR., Associate Curator

Puitip K. LuUNDEBERG, Curator

MeE-vin H. Jackson, Associate Curator

INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGE SERVICE

Chief

J. A. CoLiins

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK

Director
Office of the Director

T. H. Reep

TrRAvis E, FAUNTLEROY, Assistant to the Direc-
tor

Marian McCrane, Zoologist

Cuinton W. Gray, Veterinarian

SMITHSONIAN ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY

Director
Office of the Director

Publications and Information

Frep L. WHIPPLE

Car.ton W. TiLuincnast, Assistant Director
(Administration)

Cuartes A. Lunpguist, Assistant Director
(Science)

Leon CamMPBELL, JR., Executive Director

R. N. Watts, J. CORNELL
436

Astronomers

Chemist
Engineers
Geodesists

Geologists
Geophysicists
Mathematicians

Physical Metallurgist
Physicists

RADIATION

Director
Assistant Director
Biochemists

Geochemist
Plant Physiologists

Electronic Engineer
Instrument Engineering

Technicians
Physicist

SMITHSONIAN

YEAR 1965

G. Cotomso, L. GoLpBERG, Y. HAGIHARA,

G. S. Hawkins, Y. Kozar, R. Martin,
J. Stowey, L. Sotomon, F. W. WricHT

D. A. Pitman
T. E. Horrman, C. G. Lenr, Y. Nozawa
L. Aarpoom, W. Kou tein, J. Rotrr, W. E.

STRANGE, G. VEIS

O. B. Marvin, J. Woop
E. M. Gaposcuxin, C. Y. WANG
R. W. Briccs, M. P. FriepMaAn, D. A. Laut-

MAN

M. F. ComMERFORD
E. Averett, P. L. Boatnacar, N. P. CARLE-

Ton, A. F. Coox, R. J. Davis, J. De FEtice,
C. H. Ducan, G. G. Fazio, E. L. FrremMAn,
F,. FRANKLIN, O. GiINncERICH, M. GnrossI,
R. R. Haerner, H. F. HetmxKen, P. V.
Hopcrt, W. M. Irvine, L. G. Jaccia, W.
KaALKoFEN, A. R. Lez, D.. J. MALaisE,
R. E. McCrosxy, H. Miter, R. W.
Noyes, J. B. Pottack, A. G. Posen, M.
Roemer, G. B. Rysicki, C. E. Sacan, R. B.
SoutHwortH, 8S. E. Strom, D. TILzzs,
S. Tsuruta, F. F. VERNIANI, C. A. WHITNEY,

J. P. WRicuT

BIOLOGY LABORATORY

W. H. Kein

W. SHROPSHIRE, JR.

D. L. CorreL_i

M. M. MArcuLies

A. Lone

V. B. Exstap, K. Mirrakos,
L. Price, A. M. STEINER

J. H. Harrison

D. G. TALBERT.

B. GOLDBERG

NATIONAL GOLLECTION OF FINE ARTS

Director

Assistant to the Director
Special Consultant

Curator (Exhibits)

Curator (Painting and Sculpture)

Davin W. Scorr

DonaLp R. McCLeLLAND
Mrs. ADELYN DOHME BREESKIN
Harry Lowe

RicHarD P. WuUNDER
STAFF OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION 437

Curator (Information and
Lending)

Librarian

Smithsonian Traveling
Exhibition Service

Smithsonian Art
Commission

Members

Members Emeritus

Row.tanp Lyon

WiLt1aM WALKER

Mrs. DorotHy VAN ArRSDALE, Chief

Mrs. Nancy Curtis PApnos, Assistant Chief

EpcaAr RIcHARDSON, Chairman

GitmoreE D. CLARKE, Vice Chairman

S. Ditton Riptey, Secretary

GitmorE D. CLARKE, PAGE Cross, Davin E.
FInLEyY, Litoyp GoopricH, WALKER HAan-
cock, BartLtetr H. Hayes, Jr., WILMARTH
S. Lewis, Paut Mansuip, Henry P.
McitHenny, Paut MELLon, Ocpen M.
PLEIsSNER, EDGAR RIcHARDsON, S. DILLON
Riptey, CuHartes H. Sawyer, Stow
WENGENROTH, ANDREW WYETH

LEONARD CARMICHAEL, ALEXANDER WETMORE

FREER GALLERY OF ART

Director

Assistant Director

Head Curator (Near Eastern
Art)

Associate Curator (Chinese Art)

Head, Technical Laboratory

Joun A. Pore
Harotp P. STERN
RICHARD ETTINGHAUSEN

WILLIAM TROUSDALE
RUTHERFORD J. GETTENS

NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART

Trustees

President

Vice President
Secretary- Treasurer
Director
Administrator
General Counsel
Chief Curator
Assistant Director

EARL WarreEN, Chief Justice of the United
States, Chairman

Dean Rusk, Secretary of State

Henry H. Fow er, Secretary of the Treasury

S. Ditton Riprey, Secretary of the Smith-
sonian Institution

Paut MELLon, JoHN Hay Wuitney, Joun N.
Irwin II, Lessinc J. RosENWALD, FRANKLIN
D. Murpuy

Paut MELLON

Joun Hay WuitNEy

HUNTINGTON CAIRNS

Joun WALKER

ERNEST R. FEIDLER

HunTINcTon CAIrns

Perry B. Cotr

J. Carter Brown
438 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1965

NATIONAL AIR MUSEUM

Director S. Pau, JOHNSTON
Assistant Director FREDERICK G. DURANT
(Astronautics)
Assistant Director (Education Pau, E. GARBER
and Information)
Visual Information Officer James A. MAHONEY
Flight Craft Louts C. Casey, Curator in Charge
Flight Materiel KENNETH E. NEWLAND, Curator in Charge
Flight Propulsion Rosert B. Meyer, Curator in Charge
Preservation and Restoration WALTER M. Mate, Facilities Manager

CANAL ZONE BIOLOGICAL AREA

Director M. H. Moyninan
Biologists Ropert L. Dresster, A. STANLEY RAanp,
NEAL G. SMITH

JOHN F. KENNEDY CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS

Chairman Rocer L. STEVENS

Officers Rosert O. ANDERSON, Vice Chairman
Sot M. Linowrtz, Vice Chairman
RA.puH E. Becker, General Counsel
DaniEL W. BELL, Treasurer
K. LEMoyne Bittinecs, Secretary
Puwip J. Muttuin, Assistant Secretary and

Administrative Officer

HERBERT D. Lawson, Assistant Treasurer
KENNETH BIRGFELD, Assistant Treasurer
Pau. SELTZER, Assistant Treasurer
L. Corrin Stronc, Chairman Emeritus

NATIONAL PORTRAIT GALLERY

Director CHARLES NAGEL
Associate Curator Rosert G. STEWART
Commission CATHERINE DRINKER Bowen, JULIAN P. Boyp,

Joun Nicuotas Brown, Lewis DESCHLER, ~
Davin E. FINLEY, WILMARTH SHELDON
Lewis, RicHARD H. SuHryock, Col. FREDE-
rick P. Topp
Ex Officio CHIEF JUSTICE OF THE UNITED STATES
SECRETARY, SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Director, NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART
STAFF OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION 439

SCIENCE INFORMATION EXCHANGE

Director
Deputy Director
Associate Directors

Assistant Directors

Executive Officer

Monroe E. FREEMAN

Davin F. HERsEY

Wiuis R. Foster, Life Sciences

FRANK J. Kreysa, Physical Sciences
Wiu1AM H. Firzparrick, Special Projects
Harvey Marron, Operations

Epwarp H. Koun

NATIONAL ARMED FORCES MUSEUM ADVISORY BOARD

Director

Assistant Director
Museum Specialist
Chairman

Ex Officio

Members

Col. Joan H. Macruper III

James S. HuTcHIns

Col. Ropert M. CaLLanp

Joun NicHoLas BRowNn

SECRETARY OF DEFENSE, SECRETARY, SMITH-
SONIAN INSTITUTION

CHIEF JUSTICE OF THE UNITED STATES, SECRE-
TARY OF ARMY, SECRETARY OF Navy,
SECRETARY OF AIR Force, Davin Lioyp
KREEGER, HENRY BRADFORD WASHBURN, JR.,
WILu14M H. PERKINS, JR., JAMES H. CasseELt,

JR:
oe VORMUTILSE HAIMA TMS Gh 0D aA Tee

AMANO AS: KOUTAM IQ 1k GO ee

vausaed GZ goavokh.
at varan £4. mall
i ROSSI SED ATO 1 auntie
“ep stoe dpnievtt ,aecan | anda “
aiord Lumsqe XOLTAGST OD WE MaALtEVe
! ZG s TKO PWD SAA VX RATS

WitOnal BS Bid gd

HACK YHORIVGA MUGEUM et god (Gan

sratve ste VND anstua onl) Ne ie Plo Abs, Fac aia
avanti (& ean i.

aiteiicacs CRE raion tee ak
Awoal 2 reagan vino]
Wind vaavastone aru) a) Pangaea

nonrusial FAMGS Boe ”
-"nse warare? darn sar wo adhead] warm

Tas, “A 4c N“aAruaiad 2 ruare OO <YRAT
cvesit) arvath pashan tee pela ones 7 Lie ee
a| wtueeayy ca0gdard YaHyait aoa .
Treen? Hi aesl. al erat eed ee

| Ll 4
Al a ¥ i ae is Ww
‘ f b>

j eG we AP
Pst ee \ Ver at OND a ee ees ere pe;

RA ie NN i a adh ‘he

Tabi itd Doi a

“f a AG Mera © Ses

RAE By: aa |

bh (MMcke me (alae. Taney eee ‘jira
het aa Sere

aad, Moqearieya, MSA

| SP ee OR PREM AR UT Onis S
tf : i Mf yea i ; a Ay Hy eat Hn f 4 4
Pe ee: Hie ye

\ ims Ny oN :
ap

a hi

fh) i ,
di bya. Y
ei me fi
a
v ie fi
is ey ;
i) Li Ds Pe Oh Aw ' | ey:
en ? ni ¥ etd ik

is er
sy
vi ‘)
i, ‘
ini Fiet He
Ae ee

wrens
Sqeareey 28
Pe ated

Oe a4
Sem ae eee

Ny mete wt (2 SESE mene
htm a Wee Ape Ses ST

ate ew

i . . p a ~ eres 4
" 1 ; a 3 . : t af y : : a Se tha oe ee sneer ie ere
eum" 4 < 2 & : a4 nae perks . : : : 3 Se RN On Rie AA EA ES
sone: eae" 2 7 5 in % vn : : cares oN > Sag nica nae Sa eee
* eet ¢ so Seth oe rire te se “ ee : Py q : ‘ 3s
in eS . Pao

eo y=
ene pti ae ene eS
ONO ee eit

Sate aw ates
nae

Wee eo ws A A wi Me * 4 * ashing en Ee ONE 8.
eee ae r A a “ eH

este ."
a aes
Pe cme

am
| i pats itary
é ‘ : ae

oe

ee 4
ery
io

ete ie
sian uenn nines

es

Pee
Tyre Mt A ae FO Ae Sa
Uae MP Ret SY MAME EM NGOS § ATEN SED
Coe eee ee tans dy 08: 4d gp Siete tye AEE NTN Ue
A oR a a: a © es Gees es | ‘al Ea. §
“hey te halatatatalatatelataletatetetaieiata es!

atetantate
hatatataatete® i“ Soo alate! fe

a4
eee ae os

aa Sheth lelatet ately é

cn “a « ek a ew
ew . ¢ q)
ve een Se ae fant

at ¢ 404 @ 4 gta’, feaeece .
« ie Af

“a. x i, 4 ‘f “ v “ae fete

‘ af 14, ht i tes ane ¢ res ‘i Pe oy

cites Vee ekg’ ian @ 3 Lh Reed Me ee
¢ a 8 nt Aad a8 OM

x, ate A tet 13 ae atetatatets® Cececas txt

shatghate" CMe hk Coren ted

hh

save
at

a8 ot o if
jy teeth! ae’ ne va’ tie late: _*,
ee Oe ee ee eee @
ree b ehs ‘< weet “qo 4 e 4's
4 @ | ~ ‘li ara ks ¥ ee at ‘GS nae 4
648 € # ate aa ae ee
he a in 0% hate's 4 Parsee
aq
te

jhe
Pay
fs
oP,

Bs ve ; : : { a
, s 7 ile i
NY wg

ve

Pak a ee 8 a ¢ Ae £
tt « a rr? i 4, ona ig rs « i‘. co
e

oo 5B! — a
cs an : A
i 4 ‘ i * 5 a Qo ; % ; : & a *s

ony c? Seeatetete 43 eae ee fof Ay a, ~

cat eg

3 sae
Pa .

tat

a ria!

a (or :
at Pe 2 “3h a,
xs oe 2p
* ough = hay a: we “aS
; set Re ae i
Be Be she Ow, ao on
a Ca Ue Tee)
ra BS TR
si gi ORS ie: eke oar 2 we ee ‘ey, we us
re i ae: ue: § ie : es Jae oi ‘ae
SS & £8 ee ee Se
. OME gr SR er B “
i 5 “eS, iy SS Pia i ey
rf aes: Pe as Re:
t t

oD gees

: toa i is Rit fee we ad at
4 7 " me es Ps " + ah 3 * x + A 6 he: a Py it ab “oA “at ay oA — ae ee wae », arg, SS ; A " a a ;
eu op XO A a o (34 ho A AL a A, cr ie oe
ann ar } : ee es ty gh ee ake Ee
OS Oe Oe es Oe a Ae oe * “2 4G le eS af 8 8 a ok au ro

uy > ty are ay ay 7 a, t/ +4 yen hy 7 fe oY ne: ” a? |) ae Seer? cas 7 2

near

