oP
SRS

BOSTON
PUBLIC
LIBRARY

Ms Me
: . a :
aa |
ow Ve
‘ a
q 7 i
1 vo
i
n “4 c . a
, on
“een S
n
rr
1p. 7 ih

j ee ee) ere
:

-=-_

a

| «a

Rae Vw Ay f Loe

A) “' , ryt Ts ‘ éf
aioe)

- ae a ek: i wi) uF :
” pal Ae i i yak

il) Sa ea ie i" a Ur oe bay
aCe yi, 1 i nee

|

|

j
j

Regi yg tg he

Geet
he

SMITHSONIAN

YEAR
1908
Smithsonian Year
1968

ANNUAL REPORT OF
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 JUNE 1968

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
City of Washington 1968

For sale by the Superintendent of Documents, U.S. Government Printing Office
Washington, D.C. 20402 - Price $2.75
The Smithsonian Institution

The Smithsonian Institution was created by act of Congress in 1846,
in accordance with the terms of the will of James Smithson, of England,
who in 1826 bequeathed his property to the United States of America
“to found at Washington, under the name of the Smithsonian Institu-
tion, an establishment for the increase and diffusion of knowledge
among men.” In receiving the property and accepting the trust, Con-
gress determined that the Federal Government was without authority to
administer the trust directly, and, therefore, constituted an “‘establish-
ment,” whose statutory members are “‘the President, the Vice President,
the Chief Justice, and the heads of the executive departments.”

Tue ESTABLISHMENT

Lynpvon B. Jounson, President of the United States
Husert H. Humpurey, Vice President of the United States
Eart WarreEN, Chief Justice of the United States
DEAN Rusk, Secretary of State
Henry H. Fow ter, Secretary of the Treasury
CLarK CLiFForD, Secretary of Defense
Ramsey Ciark, Attorney General
W. Marvin Watson, Postmaster General
Stewart L. Upatt, Secretary of Interior
OrviL_e L. FreEMAN, Secretary of Agriculture
GC. R. Smiru, Secretary of Commerce
W. WIiLtarp Wir7z, Secretary of Labor
Wixpur Couen, Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare
Ropert C. WEAveR, Secretary of Housing and Urban Development
Atan S. Boyp, Secretary of Transportation
Board of Regents and Secretary

Presiding Officer ex officio
Chancellor

Regents of the Institution

Executive Committee

The Secretary

Assistant Secretaries

30 June 1968

Lynpon B. Jounson, President of the
United States

EARL WARREN, Chief Justice of the
United States

EARL WARREN, Chief Justice of the
United States, Chancellor

Husert H. Humpurey, Vice President
of the United States

CLINTON P. ANDERSON, Member of the
Senate

J. Witu1aM Futsricut, Member of the
Senate

Hucu Scott, Member of the Senate

FRANK T. Bow, Member of the House of
Representatives

MicHAEL J. Kirwan, Member of the
House of Representatives

GrorcE H. Manon, Member of the
House of Representatives

Joun Nicuotas Brown, citizen of
Rhode Island

WrtuiAM A. M. BurDEN, citizen of New
York

CRAWFORD H. GREENEWALT, citizen of
Delaware

Cary P. Haskins, citizen of Washing-
ton, D.C.

JEROME C. HunsAKER, citizen of Massa-
chusetts

CuLiInTON P. ANDERSON, Cary. P.
HAsKINS

S. Ditton RIPLEY

James BRADLEY, Assistant Secretary

SIDNEY R. GALLER, Assistant Secretary
(Science)

CHARLES BuiTzeEr, Assistant Secretary
(History and Art)

WitiiaM W. Warner, Acting Assistant
Secretary (Public Service)

A listing of the professional staff of the Smithsonian Institution, its
bureaus, and its offices, appears in Appendix 7.
The annual report of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution appears
under the general title Smithsonian Year.

It contains the reports of the bureaus and branches of the Institution, including
that of the United States National Museum. This report on the activities of its
component Museums of Natural History and of History and Technology,
was last issued as a separate publication for fiscal year 1964, appearing in 1965.
Issuance of the annual report of the Secretary is no longer followed by appear-
ance of a greenbound volume containing a General Appendix of articles in
the sciences and the arts. The last of the old series is that for 1964.

Reprints of each of the bureau reports are available. To some of them are
appended tabulated, statistical, and other information of primary interest to
those concerned with the particular field covered, and which for reasons of
space can no longer be carried in this volume.

SMITHSONIAN PUBLICATION 4760
Contents

The Establishment
The Smithsonian Institution

STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY .
Office of Academic Programs .

SMITHSONIAN ACTIVITIES—PUBLIC SERVICE AND INFORMATION .

Office of International Activities
Smithsonian Institution Press .
Smithsonian Institution Libraries
Information Systems Division .
Science Information Exchange
International Exchange Service .
Office of Public Affairs

Division of Performing Arts
Smithsonian Associates
Smithsonian Museum Shops
Belmont Conference Center

SMITHSONIAN ACTIVITIES—SPECIAL MusEUM PROGRAMS

Office of Exhibits . :
Smithsonian Institution siraveling Betton cence
Conservation-Analytical Laboratory .

Office of the Registrar .

SMITHSONIAN ACTIVITIES—HIsTORY AND ART .

American Studies Program . :
MuserEuM OF History AND TacHNOLoGy 3
Research and Publication
Science and Technology .
Arts and Manufactures
Civil History . hele
Armed Forces History .
The Collections .
Educational Activities .
Exhibits . be
NATIONAL AIR AND SpxeE Maaun : :
NATIONAL ARMED Forces MusEuM NevitORy BOARD :
FREER GALLERY OF ART ?
NATIONAL COLLECTION OF FINE eae 3
NATIONAL PoRTRAIT GALLERY

JosepH H. HirsHHORN MusEuM AND Seerenies Ganon :

NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART . ‘ ag
Joun F. KENNEDY CENTER FOR THE Beene REiNG hee :

101
103

105

107
109
117
UW,
119
123
128
135
151
155
161
171
175
189
207
219
227,
247
SMITHSONIAN ACTIVITIES—NATURAL SCIENCES .

Center for the Study of Short-lived Phenomena :
Office of Oceanography and Limnology
Office of Ecology .

Museum OF NatuRAL History

Research and Publication
Systematics
Anthropology
Botany
Entomology
Invertebrate Zoology
Mineral Sciences
Paleobiology .
Vertebrate Zoology .
The Collections .
Exhibits . ee wc
Papers Delivered, Lectures anid Seminars

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK Be, WGP
SMITHSONIAN TROPICAL RESEARCH INSTITUTE .
RapDIATION BroLocy LABORATORY

- SMITHSONIAN ASTROPHYSICAL On anaro

Introduction .

The Earth .

The Moon .

The Other Baer
Comets and Meteors
Meteorites and Cosmic Dust
Celestial Mechanics .
The Sun and Beyond
Historical Astronomy
Central Bureaus
Staff Changes

Staff Publications .
Special Reports .

ADMINISTRATIVE AND MANAGEMENT SERVICES .

APPENDIX

. Report of the Executive eens of the Board of Rewene :
. Smithsonian Foreign Currency Program Grants .
. Publications of the Smithsonian Institution Press
. Smithsonian Associates

Members of the Smithsonian Gnanel

. Research Participation Programs, Appointments
. Staff of the Smithsonian Institution

Page
259
262
267
283

291

299
299
300
319
325
333
343
351
367
377
399
397
403
419
433
445
445
451
456
457
458
463
465
466
476
477
477
478
487

491

497

339/83)
509
513
525
527
533
541
Statement by the Secretary
i

ya

Statement by the Secretary

S. Ditton RIPLEY

N A YEAR OF CONVULSIVE IMPACT on the people of America, one
theme, I think, has been borne in upon the Smithsonian Institution.
This theme is that the Institution has a moral responsibility to consider
its exhibits for the effect that they may have upon all sorts and condi-
tions of people. Many of our exhibits are directly involved with
history—the history of people and their machines and their material
culture. The teaching of history itself has changed radically in a genera-
tion. Traditionally most historians simply taught “the facts,”
they were, attempting to relate them without bias, as best they under-

whatever

stood them. Gradually this concept of history as factual chronicle has
been shown to be in effect not rigidly and exactly true. At present his-
tory is coming to be thought of as social science. History indeed is now
interpreted and is represented as a distillation of ideas. This change has
been difficult, indeed painful, but it is here to stay.

The Museum of History and Technology is one of the first of its
kind in the world. It is in effect a teaching museum. Most museums
that present historical collections tend to be petrified. The reasons for
this are various, but essentially revolve around people and money as
might be expected. Historical collections have a strong personal bias.
They have been brought together by individuals out of possessive love
and the collector’s passion. Such collections frequently are steeped in
myth. The provenance of the objects is seldom called into question. Thus,
the average historical museum or collection tends to have labels bearing
information supplied by the donor and including his name. If the donor
or the donor’s family are anywhere around it seems tactless to put into
question “the facts” as presented at the time of acquisition.

The second problem is money. Even if years later it becomes appar-
ent that the information on the label is wrong, there is the expense of
changing the label, or indeed of reordering the exhibit. Thus historical
museums tend to become fossilized. Entrance into these “cemeteries” is
considered by historians not only a bore but a trial. Sensible historians
tend to shun museums in principle, for it is known that the exhibits are
exhibits merely of objects presented as memorials of “‘the facts.” They

1
2 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1968

cannot speak or tell anything, and besides the chances are that the infor-
mation that they are intended to convey is faulty. In addition to all this
the objects, having been collected in a random manner, ', Prope do not
even represent an ordered chronology.

The Museum of History and Technology should be a revelation for
modern historians, though whether it is or not is another matter. In
the first place, it is the only historical museum in this country with a
staff of major proportions comprised of historians. This staff is the
equivalent of a full-fledged university department of the history of
science; it also includes historians in the fields of political, cultural, mili-
tary, and social history. Thus there are ample resources in qualified peo-
ple to interpret the exhibits. The staff is trained in research and is
concerned with presenting “the facts” to the best of its ability. There is
also an exhibits department which is probably the best in the Nation
through which facts and ideas can be restated when research has shown
the emphasis to be at fault. These two elements—continuing research on
the objects and history itself, and a staff ready to shift or change the ex-
hibits—go a long way toward creating what is an unique situation.
This has resulted in a teaching museum in the best sense, geared to
research and flexible about changing exhibits and exhibition objectives.

It has become apparent, however, that even such a wonderful mu-
seum as our own Museum of History and Technology might fall into
the preservation trap. Even a curator trained as a research historian
can become infected with a special virus which makes him prey to this
trap. When objects are preserved they become shiny and new looking.
They also become nice. Some might say “all gussied up.” Everything
becomes pretty and nice, and history itself becomes a storybook ex-
perience. In this country, everyone in history was romantic and dashing
and lived in a genteel manner. A famous example of this perversion was
the burning by a zealous librarian years ago of some of George Wash-
ington’s off-color letters. Many: exhibits pander to this myth that all
our ancestors were upper middle-class Protestant whites who lived like
ladies and gentlemen. The preservation trap is beautifully illustrated
in the average historical restoration projects around the country. From
the restoration of colonial cities on to the historic house with formal
garden, there is an unfailing tendency for “the facts” to be tidied up,
and everything to be restored to such a degree that reality and truth
long since have flown out the window. Public taste accepts this for the
most part and seems to appreciate the myth—witness the enormous
popularity of towns and old houses or the awed visits to (preferably
eighteenth century) restoration projects. The eighteenth century, being
farther away, is even more genteel than the nineteenth.
STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY 3

This past year has demonstrated to us at the Smithsonian as never
before the need to “‘tell it like it is.’ As the nation’s museum of history,
the Institution has a moral responsibility to do so. Inheritor of objects
and charged with the obligation to perform research and to teach, to
educate, it is the solemn responsibility of the Smithsonian to reveal the
social history of our nation. More than ever before our exhibits have
a potential value for education and it is our moral responsibility to see
that they do educate.

The principal facts of the history of our nation revolve around the
cultural pluralism of our people. We are not all as one and we are
certainly not all nice and “gussied up,” nor have we ever been. Our
museums, among them the Museum of History and Technology, should
be concerned with this theme of presenting truth in a social context.
Far too little has been done to delineate the history of the ethnic minori-
ties of our country or to single out and describe their achievements. In
the preservation trap, it appears as if innovation and intellectual and
technological achievement were either racially anonymous or were
the prerogative of Anglo-Saxons from western Europe, essentially Prot-
estant of course. American Indians, along with Chinese or Mexican
Indians find their culture and their mode of life discussed in the Natural
History Museum as curious subjects for anthropological research, re-
lated somehow to zoology and other parts of the world of nature. Afri-
can history is similarly discussed and recorded in depth in the halls of
African technology and anthropology. Here and there in the historical
museum there may be a reference to slavery or to wars against the
Indians, but for the most part our ethnic subcultures, our minority
groups, come off very badly indeed. It is obvious that the Smithsonian
as a whole has a splendid tradition of research into a multitude of scien-
tific and cultural subjects, but it is also true that our exhibits policies
have not delineated history as a social science, or as the distillation
of ideas.

__ Part of the Smithsonian’s problem has been lack of money. A generous
Congress has awarded money for buildings, but the annual budgets
for installation and research have not kept up with the obligations
created by the buildings. Since the Museum of History and Technology
was opened in January 1964, it has been on a near-starvation diet.
In the ensuing years, wars and necessary domestic programs have swal-
lowed up the federal dollar. The educational and research needs of
the Smithsonian, the need to change exhibits and to improve their
teaching quality and character, have received a low priority. The urgent
needs to develop cultural and social history in our museums are hard
to meet. But the need is there. We have failed to give the true historical
4 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1968

picture, to describe the whole panorama of our cultures. Young people
representing Negroes, Indians, Spanish, Chinese, Japanese and other
subcultures are not given the evidence that they are part of the stream of
history of the United States with a noble past, a vital present, and an
unlimited future. If our Institution is to play a valid role in the Bicen-
tennial of the American Revolution in 1976, we should be prepared to
correct what is in effect a series of oversights in history, the history
of our country and of the multiplicity of our peoples.

One of the ways that we can do this is to emphasize in our exhibits
the people and especially the ordinary, everyday people who built the
railroads, sailed the ships and drove as well as created the machinery
and instruments we exhibit. Many of these people, the very stuff of our
basic concern, will be revealed to belong to a wide variety of subcultures
and of ethnic minorities, quite as well as various sorts of poor whites.
For these purposes we do not simply have museums of history, or of
art, or of natural history so much as we have museums for and about
men, either man’s way of looking at the world of nature, or man’s way
of coping with the world of nature. And in some art museums we have a
clue perhaps to the varieties of means by which man looks at himself.

This year of 1968 has marked the opening of a new museum in this
Institution, the refurbished, revitalized National Collection of Fine
Arts, for long the Institution’s stepchild, and it has seen the final prep-
aration for the opening of a second new museum, the National Portrait
Gallery.

The opening of the National Collection in the remodeled old Patent
Office building was a stunning success. Years of effort by David Scott
and his devoted staff culminated on May third in a splendid evening
event, graced by President and Mrs. Johnson and some 3,000 guests
who roamed the elegant, sometimes classic, sometimes modern halls,
the lower sculpture room reminiscent of an Egyptian catacomb, the
third-floor Lincoln Gallery so sublimely cool, chaste, and immense with
its tight arches, the touch of the iron strapwork, the marble columns
restored to a nacreous sheen thanks to the efforts of our hero of the
occasion, Mr. Royal Murphy, the marble restorer. For Washington,
it was an evening to be remembered.

The National Portrait Gallery is essentially a trial balloon. There
has never been a National Portrait Gallery in this nation, and it is
still unclear to many what purpose such a gallery will serve. If the United
States had thought it as worthwhile to develop a memorial collection
of likenesses of great men and women as it delights in writing their
biographies, there might by this date in history be a great national col-
lection of portraits of the great and near great alike. No such thing
The Lincoln Gallery on the opening night of the National Collection of Fine
Arts, 3 May 1968. (Photo: Ralph Crane, LIFE magazine.)

occurred, however, and thus there is no hope that our National Por-
trait Gallery can rival in quality or character, the elegant, charming,
and beautifully furnished portrait galleries of the United Kingdom
and Ireland. There is only one sensible way to look at the matter then,
to recognize that our new National Portrait Gallery must turn its back
on precedent and chart a new path.

The implication of a portrait gallery, by the very title, is that it will
consist of a galleria full of elegant, solemn, and somnolent halls lined
with splendid portraits of the great of America, makers and shakers
all, who have found a secure niche in the Dictionary of American Bi-
ography for their accomplishments if not for their virtues, and preferably
Horatio Alger heroes all—to whom oncoming generations, pausing in
the corridors, can look up to with awe, on tiptoe as it were.
6 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1968

The fact is, of course, that lacking the impedimenta of a large finished
collection of important portraits and sculpture, the Portrait Gallery
must perforce delineate people rather than memorialize the dead.
By seeking to re-create the world in which famous people lived through
every device known to exhibits technicians including photographs, film
strips, tapes, and various kinetic devices, and by surrounding these
famous people with the flavors of the everyday people on whom they
depended—soldiers, farmers, tradesmen, Indians, slaves, actors, gam-
blers, politicans and all the hurly-burly, the stuff of life—the Portrait
Gallery might become a theater of history. It could be a pantomime of
American doings which would convey a vital meaning to the visitor,
unencumbered by the dust on the old oils and marble. May it be so
and may this museum too, as well as the others, try to “tell it like it is,
and was.”

As James Reston commented recently, our political leaders today are
overwhelmed by events beyond our ken—the culmination of years of
relentless pressures decried only by Gassandras—by

the fertility of the ordinary people, and the movement of the people
into cities, and the fertility of the human and particularly the scien-
tific mind, which is changing the world faster than the politicians
in any country can change their societies. Look at Washington, or
London, or Paris, or Moscow—all the so-called “great men” are
overwhelmed by the convulsive events of the human mind and
body.

One false panacea which has become pandemic is more education
for everyone, but immediately education, as such, en masse defies the
meaning of the word. The assumption is that everyone, in order to be
“educated,” must be educated in precisely similar ways, through books,
drilled by rote to pass exams. Such antilogies are pronounced by pro-
fessional persons who make entire careers as experts out of telling people
what is good for them. Time is catching up with many of these learned
sophists.

Convinced that objects are of basic importance to many people, even
peradventure to modern-day historians, the Smithsonian has been ex-
perimenting with a neighborhood museum. Here is a chance to work
with non-didactic museum tools geared to creating interest and excite-
ment in minds not interested for the most part in books, Run-down
urban areas are the single most important problem for human environ-
mental study in the world today. To anyone interested in what I have
called “social biology,” the linking in a common cause for research of
modern biologists, especially ecologists, and sociologists, the so-called
STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY 7,

slums are the areas ripe for studies cut in a new fashion and tailored
to new dimensions.

To a large extent people from run-down neighborhoods tend to stay
there. They tend to be immobile, not to move much out of their district,
except in a transient sense from slum to slum. Such people, referred to
by slogan phrases like “disadvantaged,” are likely never to go into any
museum. Indeed such people, if badly dressed or ill at ease, may feel
awkward going out of their district. They may easily feel lost wending
their way along an unfamiliar sidewalk toward a vast, monu-
mental marble palace. They may even feel hostile. In Washington, D.C.,
a city where 262,000 people, or about one-third of the total popu-
lation, live just above subsistence level, it is hardly to be expected
that large numbers of the poor can afford the bus fare for a trip to
a museum, or the clothes either. In connection with a recent PTA
program in Washington to sponsor trips for children and_ their
parents to local attractions, a number of parents in one low-income
neighborhood objected to the program. The parents, it was learned, felt
that they did not have the proper clothing for such a venture; rather
than face the possible humiliation of conceivably being denied admission
to places they might want to visit, they preferred not taking part. If this
is true, then the only solution is to bring the museum to them. For of
all our people these are the ones who most deserve the fun of being in a
museum. Should any museum director today not feel this way then he
should speak up. Although private collectors may wish to keep their
collections private, the person in charge of a museum, no matter how
recondite or esoteric or aesthetically rarefied his collection, must oc-
casionally have at least a twinge of educational esprit, the merest modi-
cum of egalitarianism or desire to improve the lot of his fellowman.

It is obvious, however, that in the case of a museum in a rundown
neighborhood, the bookmobile concept won’t do. Involvement is what is
wanted, and a bookmobile museum in a slum implies something for
nothing from rich folks somewhere else, a kind of charity, a handout—
largesse in white gloves. Involvement can be created only if it is their
museum. It must be on the spot, participated in by the people who live
there. This was our principle in 1966 when the Smithsonian started look-
ing about for a neighborhood which might want its own museum. Our
one guideline was that the area must have stability and not be too full of
transients or of the migratory unemployed. We looked for a site, per-
haps an abandoned movie theater or grocery store, preferably on the
block with a laundromat—that symbol of daytime neighborhood in-
volvement—rather than too many bars.
8 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1968

We found the district in Anacostia, one of the areas of Washington
which had changed a good deal since the days of the distinguished
Frederick Douglass. Consultations with the Southeast Neighborhood
House in Anacostia revealed an instant enthusiasm on the part of the
local residents. With their help we decided to try, and set out to rent
an unoccupied theater which, by chance, was on the same street as a
local school, and in the same block as a laundromat.

The auguries seemed good. A community advisory council was formed
early in 1967, chaired by Mr. Alton Jones, chairman of the Greater
Anacostia Peoples, Inc., Mr. Stanley Anderson, later to become one of
the first members of the new City Council of Washington, Mrs. Marion
Hope, Mr. Ben Davis, and a good number of willing volunteers, in-
cluding a sergeant of the 11th Police Precinct, Andrew Salvas. My col-
league, Charles Blitzer was active from the beginning and we depended
heavily on the advice of Mrs. Caryl Marsh, who had worked with
neighborhood social problems in Washington. Our Smithsonian exhibits
department, led by John Anglim and Ben Lawless, was keen to rush in
and remodel the small 400-seat movie theater, and Robert Shelton was
assigned by them to draw up a design. Long and prayerful meetings
(most of them in a local church) with the advisory council ensued be-
fore they decided the framework of the exhibits, their focus, and the
degrees to which a variety of exhibits might appeal to local residents. By
June 1967, we had selected a Director, Mr. John Kinard, a thirty-year-
old, Washington-born youth worker who had worked in the Neighbor-
hood Youth Corps and the Office of Economic Opportunity. Under
John Kinard, who is vigorous and decisive, the exhibit plans were com-
pleted and the work began. The seats were removed and a flat floor was
installed with two single steps at intervals to take care of the slope. Six
modules were constructed along the sides of the seating area, two to a
section of the floor, so that each single step marked the partition be-
tween the modules. The exhibits resulted from a vast number of sug-
gestions, primarily from the advisory council, but also from Smithsonian
guards and staff curators. A complete general store of the 1890s—just
as it was in Anacostia—occupies one corner. In it there is a post office
(for which we hope to get a license to operate), old metal toys, a butter
churn, an ice-cream maker, a coffee grinder, and a water pump, all of
which work, and any number of other objects of the period from kero-
sene lamps to flat irons, to posters and advertisements. There is another
do-it-yourself area for plastic art, with, at present, class instruction by
volunteers. There are skeletons of various kinds, some of which can be
put together or disassembled. There is space for temporary art shows.
Entrance to the Anacostia Neighborhood Museum; below, a do-it-yourself art
area and, right, Director John Kinard talking with Washington Mayor Walter
Washington, Councilman Stanley Anderson, and Charles Blitzer of the Smith-
sonian in the general store and post office which occupies a corner of the museum.

There is a TV monitor system on the stage. One of the modules is oc-

cupied by a live zoo with green monkeys, a parrot, and a miscellany of
animals on loan from the National Zoological Park. A great success is
a shoe-box museum in an A-frame structure, filled with wooden shoe
boxes containing bird skins (in celluloid tubes), mammal skins, shells,
fossil specimens, and pictures. There are slide projectors for intensive
handling and study. A behind-the-scenes museum exhibit of leaf-making,

315-997 O-69 -2
Smithsonian Secretary S. Dillon Ripley
and friends with “Uncle Beazley,” the
dinosaur hero of the story, The Enormous
Egg, who made a temporary visit to the
Anacostia Neighborhood Museum. Be-
low, nearby fence painted for the opening
by a local group of Trail Blazers, and a
classroom area in the museum.

silk-screen techniques, casting and modeling, gives an additional outlet

for instruction. All this—to the tune of crashing hammers, scraping saws,
and slapping paint brushes—took form in two and a half months.

The grand opening attended by an 84-piece band, two combos, and a
block party with speeches and klieg lights took place on 15 September
1967. A local group of Trail Blazers had painted the nearby fence, which
separates the museum from the next property, with a stylish “primitive”
mural of African life. The desolate surrounding lots were spruced up,
and one of them was decorated temporarily with “Uncle Beazley,” the
dinosaur hero of the story, The Enormous Egg. One of the striking
by-products of the opening was the improvement in the appearance of
the block. Several store fronts and houses were newly painted. The local
utility company branch, with friendly and unexpected solicitude, was
hastily painted and landscaped with shrubbery which greatly enhanced
STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY fi

the previously dreary-looking brick premises. The whole place began to
look almost as smart as the swagged bunting draped on the old theater
marquee, now rechristened as the Anacostia Neighborhood Museum.

The financing for all of this had to be raised from private sources,
for the federal government is, presumably quite rightly, only rarely
interested in innovations of a sociological nature. This was an ex-
perimental project; for a museum or for the sedate Smithsonian, it
could be described as “off-beat.” We estimated that for the first year
we would need to raise between $60,000 and $75,000 and by the fall
of 1967 we had about $75,000 in hand, mostly from three foundations,
the Carnegie Corporation, the Anne S. Richardson Fund, and the Eu-
gene and Agnes E. Meyer Foundation. When in early 1968 we realized
that all this would cost more, we received a challenge grant from the
Irwin S. Miller Foundation,,and small private contributions from in-
terested citizens have been slowly but steadily coming in. At this juncture
my colleagues and I estimate that once it is under way a neighborhood
museum can run on something under $125,000 a year, with a flexible
staff of four full-time employees as well as volunteers and contract or
volunteer work from exhibits specialists. Changing exhibits are of the
first importance, for any new experience, such as a museum, tends to
pall in time.

The results so far in mid-1968 are hard to assess. Anacostia has a
known population of nearly 65,000 persons, 41 percent under eighteen,
78 percent non-white. The median family income compiled from cen-
sus records is $3,430. In the first five and a half months some 25,000
visits had been clocked into the museum, a building about 100 feet long
and 60 feet wide with a tiny mezzanine floor for offices in the former
projection booth area. Obviously something is happening. School classes
are being taught there. A local business man has donated a school bus
to drive children over to the main Smithsonian buildings for Saturday
morning classes. These are, of course, children who would never other-
wise enter the vast marble mausolea on the Mall. Interestingly, at the
Anacostia museum there has been no vandalism. Not a feather or a
fossil has been stolen. And best of all there are no guards. What is the
mystery of this equation: no guards = no losses and no vandalism? The
only valid answer of course is, “because it is their museum, not ours,
and they can be proud of it.”’

Public service has many forms. One of these has been the degree to
which the Smithsonian can involve people in its activities. Through the
Folk Festival, the second of which was held over the 1968 Fourth of
July weekend, with a great outpouring of public interest and an attend-
ance of over 500,000, to the other events which bid fair to become
Anall Charles Ives program by the Gregg Smith Singers received critical acclaim
when it was presented on 24 October in the rotunda of the Arts and Industries
Building for the Smithsonian Associates. At right, Bessie Jones and the Georgia
Sea Island Singers performing at the Festival of American Folklife on the Mall.

annual ones, such as the April First party for the summer hours open-
ing, the Mall is increasingly an involved and active place, full of vitality
and, it might be said, joy. As one newspaper remarked after the first
day of the Fourth of July Folk Festival, “it’s such an unexpected pleasure
to see 100,000 people gathered together in the middle of Washington,
all smiling.”

The Associates’ activities continue to increase both in numbers and in
enthusiasm and programs. By the end of June 1968, membership in
the Associates stood at 7,000, representing around 15,000 persons. The
variety of programs is tremendous, thanks to the heroic and dedicated
work of Lisa Suter and her colleagues, ranging from field trips in fossils
and archeology to Japanese drama (Kyogen and Noh), from fashion
lectures to craft workshops in batik, mosaic, raku, from chamber music
concerts to behind-the-scenes tours of paleobiology labs, as well as lec-
tures, films, and art tours of various cities. The Ladies Committee of
of the Associates, active in the Washington area, has a number of im-
portant programs of aid to constituent museums and in public affairs.

Particularly interesting has been the expansion of the Museum Shops
under the imaginative direction of Carl Fox. Aside from books, pam-
phlets, and cards, Mr. Fox has been concerned to demonstrate the
vitality of the folk art tradition, and to encourage museum visitors to

realize that they themselves are part of a continuing tradition of crafts-

manship and craft work. Several special exhibits have been sponsored
by the shops during the year ranging from “Childrens’ Embroideries
from Peru” to “19th-Century Japanese Prints and Drawings,” from
“Eskimo Sculptures and Prints,’ to “Traditional American Crafts,”
from “Toys around the World” to “Henry Evans Botanical Prints.”

One of the bases on which this Institution stands is the exchange of
information—the “diffusion” of knowledge. For a number of years,
14 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1968

the Smithsonian has pioneered in developing a Science Information
Exchange, directed by Monroe Freeman, and supported principally by
the National Science Foundation. More recently, we have been ap-
proaching our collections of things as if they were library books, seeking
to encode and store information on them for instant retrieval. Without
such ability the collections become meaningless. With such ability the
collections may be used as tools, interwoven into the fabric of knowledge
in such a way that specific questions may be asked of a philosophic,
demographic, or biomedical nature which perhaps could not otherwise
be answered. Much of the data buried in collections in the arts, social
sciences, and sciences already found in our museum collections is of
such a fundamental nature, that if we could collate it properly and ask
the appropriate questions we could penetrate Sibylline mysteries and
embark upon total environmental prediction including problems of food
supply, stress, pollution, and population. Our new Division of Informa-
tion Systems, under the direction of Nicholas Suszynski, is perhaps no
oracle at present, but the seeds are there. In time, I am convinced that
an evolved union catalogue of such diverse sorts as complete holdings in
art across the country, of the assemblage of all aspects of marine biology,
and other crucial resources may, when properly interpreted, teach us
more than we presently know about ourselves and lead us to an objec-
tive form of wisdom out of which true planning for the future may
emerge.*

In connection with our plans for mobilizing information in the
Smithsonian, our library must occupy a paramount place. To a library-
minded curator like myself, no single part of the Institution can yield
primacy of place to our library and to our library-like resources which in
essence are the collections. Since the days of Professor Charles Jewett,
the Smithsonian library has grown slowly, largely presenting the accre-
tions in books to the Library of Congress, an ideal scheme initially, but
a course which lack of proper information retrieval-techniques rendered
crippling to research within the Institution over the years. The appoint-
ment this year of Russell Shank to the post of Librarian of the Institu-
tion will go far toward remedying this gap, and we are all heartened by
his bold and imaginative approach toward our problems.

In his design for the Institution, Joseph Henry elaborated schemes

*Tncreasing interest in this problem is indicated by an important symposium
at the 1967 (New York) meeting of the American Association for the Advance-
ment of Science. ‘““The Role of Museums in Modern Communication,” sum-
marized in Science, (9 August 1968), vol. 161, pp. 548-551.

STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY 1

both for what, today, would be called scholarly and popular publica-
tions. In respect to the former, he put the emphasis squarely on basic
research. This has been adhered to in the serial reports which have
flowed from the Smithsonian for 120 years without interruption. The
mandate for popular publications was met more fitfully—the most vigor-
ous effort being the Smithsonian Scientific Series begun in 1929. More
recently, the immense popularity of the Smithsonian museums has led
to the issue of a number of pamphlets and booklets which convey in-
formation about the museums and their exhibits. But the Smithsonian
remained apart from the commercial book publishing industry, al-
though in 1964 it became a member of the Association of American
University Presses whose other members had, in the main, vigorously
adopted the techniques of commercial publishers. In the past two years,
under a new name and management, it has become an active producer
and distributor of books. It is thus, now, a full-fledged university press,
but different from any other university press by virtue of the variety of
its output. The Smithsonian Institution Press publishes more special
scholarship in our serials than do other presses, and in this we more
resemble a museum publisher. On the other hand, no other university
press publishes such popular items as our museum guides, pamphlets,
and even juvenilia, for unlike our fellow academic publishers we are in
daily contact with the lay masses. And, in the current fashion of uni-
versity presses, we publish both scholarly monographs and semipopular
works in the book trade with as much professional book-publishing
expertise as we can apply.

While we give great emphasis to our imprint and continually seek
to improve it, the Smithsonian is also alert to the possibilities of collabo-
rating with commercial publishers. The Smithsonian Library, the new
joint venture with American Heritage Publishing Company, is one of
our greatest successes in the area of public education. The three books
already published have avoided the fault common to popularizations
of science—of being “all about” a subject, and overawing the lay reader
with an array of incontestable facts which mislead him as to the nature
of scholarly inquiry and thus widen the understanding gap. Instead, the
authors have succeeded in communicating the hows and whys of re-
search and development in science and technology. These volumes are
The Evolution of the Machine by Ritchie Calder The Forging of Our
Continent by Charlton Ogburn, Jr., and The Evidence of Evolution by
Nicholas Hotton, ITI.

Although much of the activities in our museums has been severely
hampered by curtailed funds, it is heartening to record that our staff has
continued to produce more published research than in any previous
16 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1968

year. In the natural history areas, a discernible concern for the inter-
pretive aspects of problems has begun to emerge. This is a welcome
addition to descriptive science and the infusion of broad evolutionary
principles in such study is always to be desired. In the realm of air
and space, although construction for that museum is at present off
our agenda, the development of research studies in this subject con-
tinues, notably monographs on the development of Professor Langley’s
engines of 1900-1903, a comprehensive history of the early years of
air mail in the United States, studies on air pioneers like Glenn Curtiss,
on the 19th-century rockets of Congreve and Hale, and on the National
Air and Space Administration’s contributions to modern rocketry and
space flight. With aid from the Admiral DeWitt Ramsey Fund, research
is proceeding on naval aviation during the post World War I decade.

During the past year the National Armed Forces Museum Advisory
Board held a conference at Belmont, the Smithsonian’s enormously
useful conference center. Under the chairmanship of Regent John
Nicholas Brown, the conference produced two recommendations ap-
proved by the Board of Regents at their January 1968 meeting. These
included:

Early appointment of a senior scholar to serve as chairman of study
center activities, responsible for establishing the nucleus of a staff
and organizing initial programs. In addition, this scholar could
assist in planning the role the museum and study center would
play in commemorating the Bicentennial of the American
Revolution.

Establishment of a committee of eminent scholars in the field of
military history to provide a closer link between the Smithsonian
and the academic world. Such a group would complement the
functions of the Advisory Board by enlisting the active partici-
pation of the intellectual community.

In the law setting up the Armed Forces Museum and Board the
Smithsonian has a unique opportunity to escape the constraining evo-
lutionary patterns of the past. Rather than be cursed as many museums
of today are by the possession of collections which tend to dominate
whatever efforts are made to establish a meaningful raison d’étre for
the museum, the Armed Forces plan provides for separating museum
and study center. The museum itself can be planned to contain only
highly meaningful artifacts based on a reasoned intellectual objective.
The Institution has an opportunity at present to study the problems
of military historical collections throughout our bureaus with the pur-
pose of achieving effective unity in their curation. The question of the

STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY 17

Belmont, the Smithsonian Institution’s Conference Center near Elkridge,
Maryland.

study center should probably be aligned with the subject of our aca-
demic programs.

Charles Blitzer, who joined the Smithsonian as the first Director of
the Office of Education and Training in July 1965, was named As-
sistant Secretary for History and Art in February 1968. In somewhat
less than three years, he has demonstrated lasting accomplishments as
an educator. Programs of visiting research appointments have been
inaugurated, initially in the sciences in cooperation with the National
Academy of Sciences, and then extended to include the fields of history
and art, in cooperation with the American Council of Learned So-
cieties. These programs have now grown to a level where thirty or
more visiting scholars and scientists at the postdoctoral level come
annually to the Institution for periods of six months to a year to pursue
chosen research topics in consultation with members of the Smithsoni-
an’s professional staff. Through these and other programs, the Smith-
sonian has emerged as a national center of research training in the
disciplines of primary interest to its staff. In a descriptive science such
as systematic biology or anthropology the Ph.D. degree usually repre-
sents little more than an initial exposure to subject matter areas. Within
the Smithsonian a young scholar may increase his mastery of their stub-
born factualness and many subtleties with guidance and help from a
mature investigator.

The Office of Education and Training inaugurated a program of
fellowship awards to promising graduate students who pursue the re-
search required for the award of the Ph.D. under the supervision of a
18 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1968

Smithsonian scientist or scholar. Fifty-three Ph.D.s, awarded by the
students’ home universities, were earned within the Smithsonian in
the year under review, twenty-five of them at the Smithsonian Astro-
physical Observatory which enjoys a close cooperative relationship with
Harvard University. Indeed, the appointment of Fred L. Whipple as
Phillips Professor of Astronomy at Harvard, coincident with new tenure
appointments for Charles Whitney and Owen Gingerich, was welcome
evidence of the strength of the bond which links these two institutions.

With the support of the National Humanities Endowment the Office
of Education and Training inaugurated a program to train future
museum scholars. With help from Eugene Wallen and Richard Wood-
bury, the Office sought and successfully obtained financial aid from
the National Science Foundation for a program of summer research
assistantships for outstanding undergraduates. Nathaniel R. Dixon, one
of the most accomplished and innovative educators in the field of pri-
mary and secondary education, left his position as principal of Scott-
Montgomery Elementary School in the District of Columbia to join the
Office of Education and Training as Associate Director and head of a
newly established Division of Primary and Secondary Education in July
of 1967. Mr. Dixon succeeded in redesigning the duties of that division’s
staff of five instructors in a way that forged a most effective instrument
for placing the resources of the Smithsonian at the disposal of the na-
tion’s schools. Through the efforts of the Institution’s scholarly staff and
with the help of its Office of Education and Training, the Bureau of
Graduate Education proposed in 1901 for the Smithsonian by the
predecessor of the Association of Land-Grant Colleges and by other
prominent educators has at long last become a reality.

Our Office of Education and Training has been reconstituted as the
Office of Academic Programs under Mr. Blitzer’s successor, Philip C.
Ritterbush. The change of name signifies the Smithsonian’s desire to
continue its development as an auxiliary of academic institutions at
every level, while perhaps reminding us that education in its broad
popular sense is a much more widely diffused function of the entire
Institution in its public service role. The initial objective of the Office
in its new guise is to expand formal instructional activity: seminars, sur-
vey courses, and tutorials. The President’s Office of Science and Tech-
nology has proposed, in a very welcome series of recommendations
which Mr. Ritterbush helped originally to formulate, that the unique
research facilities of the federal government be made available to uni-
versities to the maximum practical extent. Expanded programs of visit-
ing research appointments and further increases in our educational
activities have been underscored as national policy objectives which
STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY 19

“The Familiars” by Paul Klee. This 1927 ink drawing was in an exhibition of
biological imagery in modern art, about which subject Philip Ritterbush wrote
a book-length essay entitled The Art of Organic Forms.

are most happily in concert with these recent trends in the Institution.

The Smithsonian Council met in October and April, serving admira-
bly in its role as a forum for the discussion of the development of pro-
grams in higher education and research. One recommendation was that
the Institution come to a full recognition of the professional value of
teaching activities in its evaluation of the professional accomplish-
ments of staff members. Another recommendation was that certain
special exhibits, especially interdisciplinary or experimental exhibits,
be regarded as illustrations or iconography for books that should be
written at the same time. Not only would this result in a richer yield of
books and exhibits, but it would permit exhibits to be reviewed as
scholarly statements by our professional staff members. In response to
this suggestion Mr. Ritterbush undertook to write a book-length essay
about an exhibit which was mounted under his direction in the Museum
of Natural History in June. A display of biological imagery in modern
art, the exhibit evoked the esthetic dimension of the diversity of natural
forms in the setting of a museum of natural history. The book, The Art
of Organic Forms, was dedicated to our colleague, G. Evelyn Hutchin-
son, Sterling Professor of Zoology at Yale University and a member
of the Smithsonian Council.
20 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1968

Signing of an agreement transferring administration of Cooper Union Museum
to the Smithsonian Institution. To be known as the Cooper-Hewitt Museum, the
name honors the founders, who were granddaughters of Peter Cooper and
daughters of Abram S. Hewitt. Participating in the signing are, left to right,
Henry F. duPont, chairman, and Albert Edelman, legal counsel, of the Cooper
Union Museum Charitable Trust; Smithsonian Secretary S. Dillon Ripley; Dr.
Richard F. Humphreys, president, and Daniel Maggin, chairman of the Board
of Trustees, of Cooper Union; and Smithsonian legal counsel Peter Powers.

Another theme for discussion in meetings of the Council has been how
best to organize our efforts in research and exhibition in order to take
full advantage of interdisciplinary opportunities. The potential in-
herent in our collections can rarely be seen in entirety from the vantage
point of a single discipline. Coins fascinate the metallurgist, the his-
torian of economics and trade, and the student of social customs, as
well as the specialized collector. The Council has conducted extensive
discussions of the Anacostia Neighborhood Museum, of proposed pro-
grams in folklife and American studies, and of projects still in the
planning stage, including the National Air and Space Museum and the
National Armed Forces Museum. During the year Professor Elting
Morison of Yale University, André Schiffrin of Pantheon Books, and
Dr. Gordon Ray of the John Simon Guggenheim Memorial Foundation

STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY 21

accepted invitations to serve on the Council, where their advice will be
greatly valued.

In this year the Smithsonian acquired a new museum, received con-
tract authorization and an initial appropriation to construct a second,
and acquired the largest collection of gold coins ever assembled by one
person. The new museum is the Cooper-Hewitt Museum of Design in
New York City, the first museum created to be entirely devoted to the
decorative arts in this country. The continued existence of the museum
had come into question in 1963 when the Trustees of its parent insti-
tution, Cooper Union, decided that the growing costs of providing free
tuition to its schools of art, architecture, and engineering made it im-
possible to afford to retain the museum. A survey of the possibilities for
the museum’s future was undertaken by the American Association of
Museums assisted by the New York State Council on the Arts. As a
result, the Smithsonian Institution was suggested as the organization best
suited by the nature of its founding philosophy to act to retain the very
important collections of the museum intact and available to those in-
terested in the study of all aspects of design in the human environment.

Shortly after the museum’s future came into question a committee
of citizens was formed, which is called the Committee To Save the
Cooper Union Museum. The committee was extremely active in bring-
ing about the present addition of the museum to the Smithsonian or-
ganization, and has pledged itself to the financial support of the museum.
On 9 October an agreement was signed by Mr. Daniel Maggin, Chair-
man of the Board of Trustees of Cooper Union, and the Secretary of the
Smithsonian Institution that administration of the museum would be
transferred to the Smithsonian. On 14 May 1968 the Supreme Court
of the State of New York ruled that this transfer could be accomplished
and the museum is now legally an entity within the Smithsonian
Institution.

The museum’s collections include a large and outstanding group of
design drawings—primarily French and Italian—from the sixteenth cen-
tury to the present, textiles, wallpaper, ceramics and glass, metalwork,
furniture and ephemera, as well as drawings by American and Euro-
pean artists. Richard Wunder as an Assistant Director of the National
Collection of Fine Arts and a former curator at the Cooper Union, has
been appointed the first Director, and a Board of Advisers has been
formed under the Chairmanship of Henry F. du Pont who has been
a primary supporter of the Cooper Union Museum for many years.

The Joseph H. Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden moved a
step closer toward fulfillment with the enactment by the 90th Congress

of the necessary legislation to guarantee its construction within the next
22 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1968

three years. Ground breaking for the new structure should take place
in January 1969.

In its first Smithsonian year the Hirshhorn Museum, under Director
Abram Lerner, moved with accelerated momentum toward three related
goals: the acquisition of new paintings and sculptures, the development
of plans and programs for the new museum on the Mall being designed
by architect Gordon Bunshaft, and the continuation of its services to
scholars and institutions involved in the history of modern American
and European art. Mr. Hirshhorn’s generosity led in 1968 to the ac-
quisition of more than five hundred new paintings and sculptures, rang-
ing historically from antiquity to the works of today’s young creators.
To its renowned group of European and American sculpture of the nine-
teenth and twentieth centuries, the collection in 1968 added significant
works of Bourdelle, Chryssa, di Suvero, Dubuffet, Gabo, Lachaise,
Lichtenstein, Miré, Pevsner, Rodin, Smith, and von Schlegell.

The collection’s paintings focus on the twentieth century. From the
works of precursors such as Thomas Eakins and Winslow Homer to the
canvases of today, the course of painting in America is covered in depth.
Complementing the American section is a strong selection of paintings
by modern and contemporary European masters. Notable paintings
added to the collection in 1968 included works by: Agam, Diller, Du-
buffet, Ernst, Frankenthaler, Mir6é, Mondrian, Pollock, Ruscha, Still,
Vasarely, and Zox.

For the past decade Mr. Hirshhorn has been known as one of the
nation’s most generous lenders and the collection is a major source for
museums and art historians preparing retrospective exhibitions, biogra-
phies, and catalogues raisonnés of twentieth-century artists. In 1968
more than fifty queries were received weekly for research information,
loans, photographs, or permission to view specific works. Although, due
to limited physical facilities, only two hundred visiting scholars, artists,
and officials could be greeted at the collection office and warehouse in
New York, more than five hundred paintings and sculptures from the
collection were loaned to museums and galleries throughout the world,
notably to the Dada exhibition at New York, Chicago, and Los Angeles,
to the de Kooning, Hooper, and Hepworth retrospectives, the Pittsburgh
International, to three exhibits at the Smithsonian galleries in Wash-
ington, and to the Tovish Retrospective in New York.

The Josiah K. Lilly Collection of gold coins came to the Smithsonian
as the result of bills introduced by Congressman William G. Bray (H.R.
12940) and Senator Birch Bayh (S. 2409) of Indiana, passed by the
Congress and signed by the President on 4 June 1968. The collection
STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY 2a

comprises some 6,125 coins valued at $5,534,808, and has been de-
scribed as surpassing any other known hoard of gold coins amassed by
one person. The United States section, in which the Smithsonian had
been woefully deficient, is in itself of surpassing importance, being vir-
tually complete. There is no museum in the Western World which has
a comparable collection. Although the Lilly estate is paying a federal
estate tax and an Indiana state tax on the collection, the preservation of
the collection intact for the nation was deemed sufficiently important
that congressional action was requested to sequester in this manner the
Lilly coins which otherwise would have been dispersed. No provision
under Mr. Lilly’s will existed which could be invoked to keep intact his
numismatic treasure. The lawyers of the Lilly estate deserve the greatest
credit for their foresight in securing this collection for the nation.

This year has seen considerable expansion in the Institution’s inter-
national activities which have passed under the direction of David
Challinor. William Warner, first director of this office, has moved to
become Acting Assistant Secretary for Public Service. In the four years
that he has served in international activities, Mr. Warner has served
the Smithsonian brilliantly; his prior knowledge gained from the De-
partment of State and the Peace Corps has proved invaluable in re-
asserting the Smithsonian’s traditional interest in international research
services and specialized cultural exchange.

In this year the Smithsonian, in collaboration with the National
Academy of Sciences has been able to be of some value to the Depart-
ment of Defense in providing advice on the subject of the relative value
of fragile and unique natural environments such as the island of Aldabra
in the Indian Ocean. In addition, we have helped to work toward set-
ting up a continuing ad hoc advisory committee on ecological change,
an area historically of primary concern to the Institution. This century
may see the inception of the largest, most critical experiment conducted
by man in altering the environment, the trans-isthmian sea-level canal
connecting the Caribbean and the Pacific Ocean. This is the reopening
of a barrier closed for the last fifteen million years, with presently in-
calculable potential changes in marine and associated conditions around
the Caribbean basin and the eastern Pacific. Although its resources are
limited, the Smithsonian has not only initiated interest and concern in
the problems throughout the biological community, but also has under-
taken with the approval of the Atlantic-Pacific Interoceanic Canal Com-
mission, the first studies in marine ecology, including sample hybridiz-
ing experiments at its Tropical Research Station in Panama.
24 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1968

President Bourguiba of Tunisia
at the Smithsonian luncheon in
his honor, 17 May 1968, with
Secretary Ripley and Chancellor
Earl Warren.

Under David Challinor’s energetic leadership, the Office of Inter-
national Activities has initiated preliminary scientific and cultural
agreements with several countries, notably with Tunisia and Iran. In
addition Mr. Challinor’s special interests in forestry and conservation
have enabled him to negotiate agreements with the United Fruit Com-
pany and the Organization for Tropical Studies for the development of
the Lancetilla, Honduras, station of United Fruit Company, as an
ecological research center, and to develop an agreement with the United
States Bureau of Sport Fisheries and Wildlife for ecological research on
St. Vincent Island off the west coast of Florida.

Tropical research already engages several of our bureaus. To these
must be added the National Zoological Park which in this past year
has developed increasing concern for the problems of the preservation
of rare and endangered species. Working closely with the Survival Serv-
ice Commission of the International Union for the Conservation of
Nature (of which Assistant Director John Perry is a member) the
Zoological Park has undertaken to initiate studies of the preservation
and breeding of rare species. Aided by a much-valued grant from the
National Geographic Society, the Director, Theodore H. Reed, will
head an expedition to Kenya to study bongo antelope in the Aberdare
mountains, and to attempt their capture and transport to the Zoo.
The Zoo’s resident scientist, John F. Eisenberg, has continued his work
in Ceylon, aided by our veterinarian, Clinton Gray, working with the
Ceylon government in immobilizing techniques with elephants, as part of
a three-year study of the ecology of this threatened form.

As part of our mandate to develop research in the American tropics,
the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute continues its valuable
studies under Martin Moynihan’s perceptive direction. The central
theme of these studies is to obtain information which will explain why
tropical biotas and environments are different from those of other parts
STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY ah

of the world. We are still very far from answering this question, but
the question is important and becoming urgent. The answers (and they
will certainly be multiple) will not only be interesting from a theoretical
scientific point of view, but should also provide base-line information
for intelligent planning of human activities and for management of the
environment in large parts of the world.

Gamma-ray astronomy is the observing of the effects of gamma radia-
tion, which is the electromagnetic radion in the high-frequency range
of the spectrum. Because of its high penetration through galactic and
intergalactic matter, its direct and simple relationship to nuclear reac-
tions that act as fundamental energy sources, and its direct relation-
ship to high-energy electrons and protons, gamma radiation is a particu-
larly important probe for cosmological studies. Measurement of the flux,
energy spectra, and arrival direction of gamma rays can help us solve
some of the fundamental problems of cosmology, such as the origin
of cosmic rays, the density of cosmic radiation in the galaxy and in
intergalactic space, the density and composition of galactic and inter-
galactic matters, the presence of antimatter in the universe, the hypoth-
esis of the continuous creation of matter, and the strength of galactic
and intergalactic magnetic fields.

The Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory’s large optical reflector
for the detection of cosmic gamma-ray sources has been installed on
Mount Hopkins in Arizona. This 34-foot-diameter, altitude-azimuth
mounted instrument consists of 252 hexagonal mirrors focused on an
array of photomultiplier tubes. The direct detection of cosmic gamma
rays is generally not feasible. Now, however, electronic techniques allow
the counting of light pulses, of very short duration and low intensity,
that are created in our atmosphere by bombarding gamma rays. It is
this indirect effect—called Cerenkov radiation—that is to be observed
at Mount Hopkins with the large reflector.

The Observatory is operating at Mount Hopkins a new prototype
laser satellite-tracking system. Correlated with the erection of this new
instrument, the nearest Baker-Nunn satellite tracking camera has
been moved from New Mexico, and a more advanced system installed
at Mount Hopkins. The new system consists of a ruby laser that illumi-
nates with high-energy light pulses retroreflector-equipped satellites. The
reflected pulse is observed with a 20-inch telescope mounted on the same
pointing pedestal and parallel with the laser. The time interval between
laser firing and the receipt of the reflection provides a value of the
range.

Depending upon the evaluation of this model, several other systems
will be set up at selected Smithsonian astrophysical observing stations

315-997 O-69 - 3
Installation of the new 84-foot
radio antenna of the Smithso-
nian-Harvard observatories was
completed early in 1968.

located around the world. These range observations, combined with
photographic observations, will substantially increase the capability of
the satellite-tracking network, thereby opening new horizons of inves-
tigation, particularly with respect to geophysical-dynamical processes
within the earth. When applied to satellite geodesy, this new ranging
technique should produce an accuracy in the measurement of continen-
tal distances to about one meter and eventually an accuracy sufficient
for possible observations of continental drift.

Early in 1968, installation of the new 84-foot radio antenna at
Agassiz station in Harvard, Massachusetts, was completed. The dish —
was acquired from the Army Materiels Command in Huntsville, Ala-
bama. A joint undertaking of the Smithsonian and Harvard observa-
tories, this facility provides a more accurate surface, larger area, and
improved instrumentation over the dish previously available. The instru- |
ment already is being used for major investigations of atomic and molec-
ular constituents in the interstellar medium.

A new analysis of observations by the observatory’s Prairie Network
shows that the mass flux of relatively large meteoroids exceeds, by
several orders of magnitude, both that inferred from meteorite falls
and that estimated from an extrapolation of small-meteor data. The

STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY Qi.

Classes conducted for members of the
Smithsonian Associates give them first-
hand knowledge of the materials and
methods of science. Above, botany;
right, oceanography.

earlier suggestion that this material is either fragile or of low density
has been reinforced by recent observations.

Each year that passes brings us to a keener realization of the finite
qualities of our earth and solar system and also the need for refining
our observations and developing new criteria for critical measure-
ments. To no men are given God-like powers. We do not as yet have
the wisdom to observe every leaf that falls or to know the fate of every
living organism. Rather we come to an increasing awareness of the
continuing crudity of our measurements, and the need for continuing
study, and for alertness to minute symptoms of environmental change.
In this connection, using the facilities and interests of several of our
member bureaus, a Center for the Study of Short-Lived Phenomena
has been established by the Smithsonian Institution. Its purpose is to
assist Our scientists in their investigation of short-lived phenomena and
to provide a reporting and information service for the scientific com-
munity. The Center is serving as a clearinghouse for the receipt and
dissemination of information concerning rare natural events that might
otherwise go unobserved or uninvestigated, such as remote volcanic
eruptions and earthquakes, the birth of new islands, the fall of meteorites
and large fireballs, and sudden changes in biological systems.

The Board of Regents of the Smithsonian recorded with deep sorrow
the death on 28 November 1967 of Robert Vedder Fleming, Regent
since 1947 and Chairman of the Executive Committee of the Board
of Regents since November 1947.
28 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1968

Dr. Caryl P. Haskins was appointed Chairman ad interim of the Ex-
ecutive Committee (Permanent Committee). The present membership
of the Board is given on page ii. The Board approved the appoint-
ment during the year of Charles Blitzer as Assistant Secretary for His-
tory and Art; William W. Warner as Acting Assistant Secretary for
Public Service; Russell Shank as Director, Smithsonian Institution Li-
braries; T. Ames Wheeler as Treasurer; Leonard B. Pouliot as Director,
Personnel Division; and Frederic M. Philips as Director, Office of Pub-
lic Affairs.

For their confidence in the role of the Smithsonian, I as Secretary
am deeply grateful to these men and their many colleagues. If the
Institution is to succeed in its curious mission, to make relevant its col-
lections, to delineate truths derived from them and to make clearer
our arduous path upon this planet, then all must bind themselves in
a common cause, for never has our task seemed more formidable, its
horizons vaguer, its parameters less clear. We live in an uncertain
world plagued by doubts, full of strident voices calling out. Which
voices should we heed? Certainty is not measured by decibels, nor is
certainty greatly aided by sight, for often black is white, white is black,
and only gray remains. If sound and sight so betray us, there is at
least a magic certainty in touch. Somehow in a time of change and
convulsion we cling to objects, seeking in them a sense of continuity,
a validation of the past and some support in thoughts upon the future.

THE BOARD OF REGENTS

The annual meeting of the Board of Regents was held on 25 January
1968 in the Fine Arts and Portrait Galleries Building at 9th and G
Streets NW. The Board toured the restored building and previewed -
exhibitions being prepared for the formal opening of the building in |
May 1968. Dr. David Scott, Director of the National Collection of Fine
Arts, and Charles Nagel, Director of the National Portrait Gallery,
described their respective collections and galleries.

The spring meeting of the Board of Regents was held on 8 May 1968
on board the Presidential yacht Honey Fitz at the invitation of the Vice
President.

STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY 29

SMITHSONIAN MEDALS

Dr. David E. Finley, first Director of the National Gallery of Art, on
19 July 1967 was awarded the Smithsonian’s Henry Medal. Vice Presi-
dent Hubert H. Humphrey, who made the presentation at ceremonies
in the Great Hall, cited him for his distinguished service to the city of
Washington and the nation over thirty years as “an arbiter of taste, a
moulder of form, and a conservator of all that is eclectic.”

The Henry Medal—created in honor of Joseph Henry, distinguished
for his discoveries in electromagnetism and first Secretary of the Institu-
tion (1846-1878) —was designed by William Barber, Engraver of the
United States Mint, and his son, Charles E. Barber, following Secretary
Henry’s death. Dr. Finley is the first individual to be awarded the Medal
by vote of the Regents of the Institution, though the first few struck were
presented to Henry’s friends and associates in 1879 on the first anniver-
sary of his death.

The Henry Medal was also awarded to Frank A. Taylor, who has
served the Smithsonian with distinction under five of its eight Secretar-
ies. In making the presentation on 5 June 1968, Senator Claiborne Pell
cited Taylor as—

A man in whose breast the word ‘“‘museum”’ has never struck terror, for

forty-seven years a sturdy pillar of the Smithsonian, your persistence and

imagination guided the Museum of History and Technology from drawing

board to final completion against all odds, creating in the process the first
evolutionary history museum with research programs and changing exhibits.

Vice President Humphrey, Smithsonian Secretary Ripley, and Dr. David E.
Finley, first director of the National Gallery of Art at the July ceremonies during
which the Vice President presented the Smithsonian’s Henry Medal to Dr. Finley.
Right, Senator Claiborne Pell presents the Henry Medal to Frank A. Taylor of
the Smithsonian in June.
30 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1968

The Smithson Medal, the Smithsonian Institution’s highest award,
was presented by Secretary Ripley on 3 May 1968 to Edgar P. Richard-
son for helping “to shape the course of art scholarship in this country,
interweaving the two streams of history and of men into effective unity.”

Secretary Ripley termed Dr. Richardson—formerly Director of the
Detroit Institute of Arts and the Henry Francis du Pont Winterthur
Museum and Chairman of the Smithsonian Art Commission until the
end of 1967—an “historian of American art without peer,” and said:
“Your contributions to the unravelling of the mysteries of the conduits,
channels, bypasses and rivulets of the watershed of art history in its
tangled skeins across the map of America have been fundamental to our
understanding.”

Dr. Richardson is the second Smithson Medal winner. Established in
1965, the medal was first awarded to the Royal Society of London dur-
ing ceremonies marking the 200th anniversary of the birth of James
Smithson.

FINANCES

The Institution derives its financial support from both federal and
private sources. These include annual appropriations from Congress for
operating expenses of the various Smithsonian museums, its educational
and research centers, and its separate program of academic grants for
overseas research projects finariced from “excess” foreign currencies.
Federal appropriations are also received for construction programs and,
through the government of the District of Columbia, for support of the
National Zoological Park. Substantial funding is received also from
federal agencies and private institutions in the form of research
grants and contracts, of which a large part goes to the Smithsonian
Astrophysical Observatory in Cambridge, Massachusetts. Finally, pri-
vate endowments and gifts support the Freer Gallery and numerous
other specifically identified exhibition, educational, and research areas
and provide relatively small but highly important added financing of
new, innovative programs which have led to forward-looking improve-
ments for the whole range of Smithsonian activities.
STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY 31

For the year ended 30 June 1968 financial support for Smithsonian
operations was received as follows:

Federal appropriations:

Salaries and expenses—normal activities $24, 535, 000

Special foreign currency program 2, 316, 000
District of Columbia: operation of National Zoo-

logical Park 2, 348, 000

Research grants and contracts (federal and private) —_11, 303, 000
Private funds:

Gifts (excluding gifts to endowment funds) 469, 000
Income from endowments and current fund

investments 1, 238, 000

Total $42, 209, 000

A federal appropriation of $3,082,000 was also made to the National
Gallery of Art (a bureau of the Smithsonian Institution under a separate
Board of Trustees) for operating salaries and expenses. Finances of the
National Gallery of Art and the John F. Kennedy Center for the Per-
forming Arts are discussed in their separate sections of Smithsonian Year.

Federal appropriations to finance construction projects were received
as follows:

National Zoological Park $400, 000
Restoration and renovation of buildings 1, 125, 000

Toward construction of Joseph H. Hirshhorn Mu-
seum and Sculpture Garden 803, 000
Total $2, 328, 000

Additional information concerning the private funds of the Institu-
tion, including a statement of gifts received in the current fiscal year
and the auditor’s financial report, is shown in Appendix 1.

As outlined in these appended statements of private funds, Smith-
sonian endowments have a total year-end book value of about
$24,750,000 (market value—$33,220,000). This was an increase during
the fiscal year of $1,678,000 in book value (mainly $632,000 from gifts
and $687,000 from gain realized on sale of securities) ; market value in-
creased by $3,041,000. Roughly one-half of these endowment funds is
dedicated to support of the Freer Gallery and another one-quarter is
designated for support of other valuable endeavors in specific fields of
research and education. The remaining quarter (about $6,200,000) is
32 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1968

unrestricted as to use of income; together with other investments in
current fund accounts it produces about $350,000 of income annually.

These private funds permit the Smithsonian to introduce improve-
ments in exhibit techniques, experimental museum programs, and mod-
ernizations such as the use of computer operations. Additional private
funds are needed to expand these efforts beyond the necessarily limited
steps which can be taken with federally appropriated monies. They
would permit, for example, the development of information-retrieval
systems for library and museum collections, added research studies in
such newly developing fields as oceanography, ecology, and radiation
biology, and added emphasis upon museum training and education. The
results would be disseminated to the benefit of other museums and
educational institutions throughout the nation.

Thus renewed attention will be given to the securing of additional
private funds in order to make possible valuable specific projects of
interest to contributors and to the Smithsonian. Such funds will support
further innovation and add new strengths and vitality to established
Smithsonian operations.
Office of Academic Programs

Puitie C. RitrerBUSH, Director

HE BEST SIGN OF PROGRESS IN EDUGATION is change in the curricula
aT of instruction, which must not be permitted to settle into final form.
Patterns of knowledge constantly change and students discover rele-
vance in differing ways. During this academic year the Smithsonian
inaugurated a division of elementary and secondary education to draw
upon collections, exhibits, audo-visual materials, and other Smithsonian
resources to augment and improve curricula for the nation’s schools.
Under the learership of Nathaniel R. Dixon, Associate Director of the
Office of Academic Programs (he was formerly principal of Scott-Mont-
gomery Elementary School), the Institution has embarked upon a
purposeful exploration of new kinds of educational experience for
students at all levels of primary and secondary education.

Up to this year and continuing, we hope, for the future the Institu-
tion’s principal services for schools have been escorted tours for school-
children, made possible by financial support and volunteer members
from the Junior League of Washington, the Smithsonian Associates, and
other organizations, who this year conducted visits for 30,352 children
totaling 1,010 hours of instruction in Smithsonian museums and gal-
leries. Throughout the week these ladies are to be found in the halls of
the museums explaining the story of exhibits to enthralled groups of
children. It is a pleasure to acknowledge the assistance of the chairman
of Smithsonian volunteers, Mrs. George C. Gerber, and those members
listed on page 38, who were presented certificates of accomplishment at a
special recognition ceremony on 26 June.

Instructors from the Division staff help to train volunteer docents
and they also write, for educational visits, guides which develop broad
themes beyond the confines of any one exhibit hall. How cultural dif-
ferences reveal different modes of adaptation to man’s physical en-
vironment was the subject of one such guide developed this year for
the Museum of Natural History, while in the Museum of History
and Technology teaching guides were prepared on the war for American
independence and the industrial revolution. Special new courses on
Negro history and the relation of animal to human behavior were tested
by instructors of the Division in summer 1968 under the guidance of

33
34 OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY

Mrs. Marjorie Halpin. The second annual holiday lectures for Wash-
ington area schoolchildren were given by Professor Vincent Scully of
Yale University, a noted authority on the history of art and architecture
and a compelling teacher. The public schools of the District of Co-
lumbia have cooperated enthusiastically, even assigning teachers to
summer work at the Smithsonian, where they have written, for use in
museums, special course materials on such topics as the biology of re-
production and the opening of the American west, as these may be
studied through exhibits in the Museum of Natural History. An un-
usual exhibition—conceived in the days following the assassination of
Martin Luther King—presented children’s drawings of the civil dis-
turbances which occurred, accompanied by their own words about the
events of that trying period. The exhibit was prepared by the Division
staff under the guidance of Michael Sands, a talented designer from
the Education Development Center of Cambridge, Massachusetts, who
captured something of the stark feeling of social conflict by mounting
the drawings on a simple backdrop of cardboard cartons. The exhibit
helped to demonstrate the value of engaging schoolchildren in confron-
tations with situations of social stress, from which the schools could not
in any event have insulated them.

The Division also works to produce special audio-visual materials
such as film strips, teaching films, and various kinds of kits and models.
By producing exhibits for schools it may be possible to introduce into
the classroom qualities of spontaneity and delight which inhere in the
best exhibits. Much the same should be done for community colleges
and other institutions of higher education, in ways which would involve
cooperative undertakings uniting students, faculty, and Smithsonian
staff. Such exhibits should embody changing features and content
contributed by the host institution, in a setting conducive to the free
exchange of ideas. In its relationship to academic institutions the
museum Can serve as an experimental theater of learning devoted to a
wide variety of subjects.

PROGRAMS OF HIGHER EDUCATION AND RESEARCH TRAINING

The Office of Academic Programs awarded 138 fellowships and asso-
ciateships in the course of the year to investigators conducting research
in Smithsonian facilities. These appointments, listed in Appendix 6,
are the basis for a wide variety of associated activities in higher educa-
tion. The development of programs of higher education and research
training, spanning the final years of graduate school and post-doctoral
work directly following, is the responsibility of the Division of Fellow-

ACADEMIC PROGRAMS 35

ships. In June Peter H. Wood joined the staff to supervise these activities.
He has been associated with research enterprises in many contexts, in-
cluding his own research on geography and environmental sciences,
management experience with the Arctic Committee for the Interna-
tional Geophysical Year and the Arctic Institute of North America, and
a study of the institutional structure of western European research
organizations. Cooperation in higher education occurs within a complex
institutional setting which requires constant study of university pro-
grams, especially in the Smithsonian’s immediate geographical setting,
the nation’s capital, where since 1965 the Institution has conducted
special studies of the relationships among institutions in research and
higher education. As Assistant Director for Institutional Research Mr.
Wood will oversee a wide range of surveys and special studies to guide
planning for higher education within the Smithsonian. Appointments
and associated instruction will be conducted in accord with nine pro-
grams of higher education and research training, whose activities for
academic year 1967-1968 are summarized in the following sections:

In AmMerRIcAN StupiEs, the program conducted by historians from
the Museum of History and Technology, the National Portrait Gallery,
and the National Armed Forces Museum Advisory Board, a total of
37 credit hours (equivalent) of instruction was offered. The graduate
survey course in American material culture, conceived and designed by
Wilcomb E. Washburn and Robert H. Walker, Professor of American
Civilization at George Washington University, was offered for the third
consecutive year with an enrollment of fourteen. Several students con-
ducted their independent research assignments out in the field as proj-
ects in historic-site archeology, such as a survey of the Seneca quarry
or a study of the early history of the Potomac canals. Six graduate stu-
dents enrolled for graduate-level tutorials for academic credit, princi-
pally in military history and political history, and a total of seven Ph.D.s
and one master’s degree were earned under the supervision of Smith-
sonian historians. Three post-doctoral associates and three Ph.D. can-
didates held visiting appointments from the Office of Academic Pro-
- grams, while three members of the Smithsonian staff held some form
of university appointment.

In ANTHROPOLOGY AND CULTURAL StuptIEs a total of 18 credit hours
(equivalent) of instruction was offered, primarily as supervision of
undergraduates. One post-doctoral associate held a visiting appointment
from the Office of Academic Programs and one Ph.D was earned. Six
members of the professional staff held some form of university
appointment.
36 OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY

In ENVIRONMENTAL Brotocy the Institution has a wide array of
facilities and professional staff interests, including the Radiation Biology
Laboratory, the Office of Oceanography and Limnology, the Office of
Ecology with the Chesapeake Bay Center for Field Biology, and the
National Zoological Park. Twenty credit hours (equivalent) of instruc-
tion was offered, including a twelve-week graduate-level survey course
offered for the second consecutive year in cooperation with the D.C.
Consortium of Universities. This year’s topic, which drew an average
evening attendance in excess of two hundred students, was the biology
of developmental processes at the supra-molecular level. The Secretary
conferred a special award upon Walter Shropshire for his imaginative
work in developing this unusually successful survey course. One post-
doctoral associate held a visiting appointment from the Office of Aca-
demic Programs. One master’s degree and one Ph.D. were earned under
the supervision of Smithsonian staff members, of whom seven in this
field held some form of appointment at universities.

In EvoLUTIONARY AND BEHAVIORAL BroLocy (Tropical Zones) the
staff of the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute maintained a high
level of educational activity, 45 credit hours (equivalent) with a staff
of seven. A weekly course on animal behavior was offered for graduate
students and other resident investigators, of whom two post-doctoral
associates and six Ph.D. candidates were on visiting appointments from
the Office of Academic Programs. Seven Ph.D.s were earned and three
members of the staff held appointments at universities.

In EVOLUTIONARY AND SYSTEMATIC BioLocy, comprising the biologi-
cal research departments of the Museum of Natural History, the Smith-
sonian employs a professional staff of 74 investigators of whom 26 hold
university appointments. One master’s degree and twelve Ph.D.s were
earned under their supervision in 1967-68. The total level of instruction
offered, including such supervision and thirteen tutorials, was the equiv-
alent of 74 credit hours. Seven post-doctoral associates and eight
Ph.D. candidates held visiting appointments from the Office of Aca-
demic Programs.

In the History or Art no appointments were made by the Office of —
Academic Programs and no degrees were earned. The National Collec- |
tion of Fine Arts is now established in adequate quarters and looks for- |

ward to participating in programs of higher education and research
training as its staff expands. Members of the staff of the National Col-
lection of Fine Arts participated in 8 credit hours (equivalent) of in-
struction, principally in supervising visiting students.

In the History oF ScIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY fourteen members of
the Smithsonian staff offered 28 credit hours (equivalent) of instruc-

|

ACADEMIC PROGRAMS 7,

tion. Dr. Uta Merzbach spent the fall term and Edwin Battison the
spring term teaching at the University of Pennsylvania under the co-
operative program in this field. Three Ph.D.s were earned. Nathan
Reingold, editor of the Joseph Henry Papers, conducted an informal
seminar on nineteenth-century topics. Two post-doctoral associates and
three Ph.D. candidates held appointments from the Office of Academic
Programs.

In Museum StupieEs six members of the Smithsonian staff offered
6 credit hours (equivalent) of instruction in museum techniques. Much
additional training was offered, although not for academic credit. For
some years students in the graduate program in art history at George
Washington University have enrolled for additional practical museum
experience under the supervision of Smithsonian staff members, after
taking a prerequisite course on museum operations offered by Robert
Stewart of the National Portrait Gallery. This pattern of cooperative
studies will be extended in coming years to offer wider opportunities
for the study of museum principles to qualified graduate students from
universities both here and abroad.

In PuysicaAL ScIENCES, comprising the Department of Mineral
Sciences of the Museum of Natural History and the Smithsonian Astro-
physical Observatory, 79 credit hours (equivalent) of instruction was
offered, almost entirely at the Astrophysical Observatory. Fred L.
Whipple, its Director, was named Phillips Professor of Astronomy at
Harvard this year, while Owen Gingerich and Charles Whitney both
received tenure appointments, bringing to 42 the number of university
appointments held by the Observatory staff. Two members of the staff of
the Department of Mineral Sciences hold academic appointments at
universities. Two post-doctoral associates and one Ph.D. candidate held
visiting appointments from the Office of Academic Programs this year.
Five master’s degrees and 23 Ph.D.s were earned, while a total of 47
tutorials was offered.

PROGRAMS OF ADVANCED STUDIES

In May the noted British ecologist, Charles Elton, was named a
Fellow of the Smithsonian Institution. This appointment enables him to
conduct studies in animal ecology in Washington, but also at the special
Area de Pesquisas Ecologicas do Guama field station near Belém,
Brazil, operated with partial support from the Institution. Dr. Elton
has retired as Director of the Bureau of Animal Population, which he
founded in 1932, and has been Reader in Animal Ecology at the Uni-
versity of Oxford.
38

Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.

OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY

VOLUNTEER DOCENTS

Mrs. Ernest N. May, Jr., Chairman, Volunteer Advisory Board
Mrs. John F. Forstmann, Assistant Chairman of Docents

Thomas A. Bradford, Jr.

Warren E. Brockett
Alfred Brummel
Jonathon Bulkley
Ernest Chase

Colby A. Child
Joseph D. Chisholm
Donald B. Christman
Norman Cole

James L. Dooley

W. Kent Ford, Jr.
Rockwood H. Foster
John J. Fox, Jr.
George Fuller
David Gibson

Cary T. Grayson, Jr.
Robert M. Griswold
Francis L. Harmon
John Hart

Rutledge P. Hazzard
Clyde E. Herring
William A. Hessick, III
John Hill

Robert Hodges
Edgar W. Holtz

Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.

Daniel F. Johnson
Ardon B. Judd
Clyde V. Kelly, Jr.
Robert M. Kimzey, Jr.
Charles Klopf
Joseph P. Lorenz
Keith Magnus

John A. Manfuso, Jr.
Craig Mathews
Robert J. McEachern
John Munhall, III
Frederick North, Jr.
John E. Packard, III
Steuart Pittman
Barefoot Sanders
Richard F. Shryock
John A. Simmons
Richard B. Smith
John F. Snyder
Edwin F. Stetson
William R. Stratton
Larry Temple
Charles W. Turner
David Wysong
Smithsonian Activities

Public Service and Information
Office of International Activities

Davip CHALLINOR, Acting Director

ee pee Activity of this Office during the year reflects the growth

in the Smithsonian’s overall interests around the world. The pri-
mary role of the Office of International Activities remains one of coordi-
nating and, where appropriate, initiating international programs and
activities related to the interests of the Smithsonian.

Representative of the kinds of government agencies and public and
private organizations concerned with international matters with which
the Office, as the Smithsonian’s point of liaison, regularly keeps in touch
are the Organization of American States, some of the uNEsco bodies,
and the Institute of International Education. The Acting Director con-
tinues to represent the Smithsonian formally or informally with such
groups as the Department of State’s Committee on International Edu-
cation, the Southeast Asia Development Advisory Group, the American
Subcommittee of the International Committee on Monuments, and
similar groups.

In February 1968 William W. Warner, the first director, who had
successfully organized and guided the Office’s activities, was appointed
the Smithsonian’s Acting Assistant Secretary for Public Service. He is
succeeded by Acting Director David Challinor, who had originally joined
the Office as Mr. Warner’s deputy.

Foreign Currency Program

At the end of the third year of operations for the Smithsonian For-
eign Currency Program, more than one hundred research grants had
been awarded, benefiting the research programs abroad of more than
forty American institutions of higher learning. The Program also con-
tinued as a major source of support for the overseas work of the members
of the Smithsonian’s own scientific staff through grants to the Smith-
sonian Research Foundation. The Program’s appropriation of United
States-owned “excess currencies” abroad, arising from the sale of agri-
cultural commodities under Public Law 480, remained at the level
of the previous year, or $2,316,000 in foreign currencies. The countries
where the Program continues to support research with foreign cur-

4ril

315-997 O-69-4
42 PUBLIC SERVICE AND INFORMATION

rencies are: Burma, Ceylon, Egypt, Guinea, India, Israel, Pakistan,
Poland, Tunisia, and Yugoslavia, with Morocco scheduled to be added
in July 1968. Active projects are now going on in almost all of these
countries and the lively interest of the American scientific community
has resulted in the allocation of the entire appropriation to research
grants.

The scholarly focus of the Program is on disciplines of interest to the
Smithsonian, notably anthropology in all its major aspects (although
the Program began originally, as successor to a similar program within
the State Department’s Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs,
with authority to award grants in archeology only) and systematic and
environmental biology, especially those aspects related to the Interna-
tional Biological Program (1BP). Together these disciplines comprise
perhaps the broadest segment of the Smithsonian’s institutional scien-
tific interests. Under a broader authority from the Congress to award
grants for “Museum Programs and Related Research,” however, the
Program has also begun making modest awards for work in other
Smithsonian fields such as astrophysics, radiation biology, history, art,
and museology. A major recommendation, by a policy committee con-
vened to advise the Program, was that there be formed to decide on
awards three new Advisory Councils patterned on the model of the
Program’s existing Advisory Council for Anthropology, which is com-
posed of some of America’s most distinguished scholars. These new
panels would be composed of rotating members from the American
scholarly community at large in the fields of earth and space science, the
biological sciences, and history and art.

The major geographical focus continued to be Egypt, Tunisia, India,
Yugoslavia, Ceylon, and Israel where major programs are in progress.
A list of grants awarded is contained in Appendix 2. In Egypt, Smith-
sonian-funded work (including several archeological excavations and
the epigraphic survey of the University of Chicago’s Oriental Institute)
was carried on despite the lack of diplomatic relations between the
United States and the United Arab Republic. In Tunisia the Mediter-
ranean Marine Sorting Center, under a new director, Neil C. Hulings,
consolidated its operations as a major new factor in international co-
operation in the marine sciences in the Mediterranean area.

The number of archeological excavations sponsored by the Program
in Yugoslavia increased from one last year—a salvage archeology proj-
ect in the Trebisnjica Basin—to five, including sites as interesting and
diverse as a prehistoric site in Obre, Bosnia, and an excavation inside
the ancient walls of the enormous villa of the Roman Emperor Diocletian
at modern Split.
INTERNATIONAL ACTIVITIES 43

In Ceylon, the broad program sponsored by the Smithsonian’s Office
of Ecology was expanded to include botanical studies that will lead to
a revision of Trimen’s definitive Flora of Ceylon.

Israel—because of its unparalleled archeological riches and also be-
cause of its high degree of scientific competence—has accomplished sig-
nificant research in a diversity of disciplines including both marine
and terrestrial biology, radiation biology, archeology, and astrophysics.

India, where the largest amount of P.L. 480 funds exists, is now de-
veloping as the major country for research under the Program, which
from the beginning has financed there in conjunction with the John D.
Rockefeller III Fund an institute for research in art-history and arche-
ology called the American Academy of Benares. Since then projects
as diverse as studies of the flora of the Hassan District and of the marine
animals of the Bay of Bengal have developed. In April 1968 Program
Director Kennedy B. Schmertz spent several weeks in India establish-
ing procedures for projects to be carried out; the pattern is one of joint
Indo-American collaborative research, with the Indian collaborator
responsible for securing Indian approvals of proposed research and the
American collaborator responsible for bringing forward viable proposals
for consideration by the Smithsonian Advisory Councils. This pattern,
employed in a number of countries, was first developed on a cooperative
project in paleontology, between Yale University’s Peabody Museum
and the Punjab University, that has already resulted in important dis-
coveries bearing upon the ancestors of man.

While in South Asia the Program Director visited Pakistan, where
previously only survey work had been accomplished, and there was en-
couraged to submit for review by the Pakistani government a pilot co-
operative research proposal in marine biology involving the University of
Karachi and the Smithsonian.

Secretary Ripley’s visit to Tunisia in November, where he person-
ally extended an invitation to President Bourguiba to visit the Smithso-
nian, led to a major step forward in extending the Program’s scope in
that country. During President Bourguiba’s visit in June, Dr. Ripley
announced the acceptance by the Smithsonian of its role in a Tunisian-
American research agreement soon to be signed by their governments.

Foreign Visitor Program

An important task of the Office of International Activities is to coordi-
nate the travel and research plans of foreign scholars visiting the Smith-
sonian. Among distinguished visitors received last year were museum
directors from Uruguay, Honduras, Kenya, Sweden, Rumania, Ceylon,
44 PUBLIC SERVICE AND INFORMATION

India, and Peru; forestry and conservation officials from Ecuador, Peru,
Bourguiba of Tunisia, during his visit here, at which the host was Chief
of State’s Office of Protocol, the Office arranged a luncheon for President
Bourguiba of Tunisia during his visit here, at which the host was Chief
Justice Warren, Chancellor of the Smithsonian.

Cooperative Programs

The Office served as coordinator in negotiations between the Depart-
ment of Defense, the National Academy of Sciences, and the British
Royal Society in establishing the Indian Ocean island of Aldabra
as an international conservation area. Similarly, the Office worked out
an agreement for long-term ecological research at the new wildlife
refuge on St. Vincent Island, Florida, and cooperated with the Depart-
ment of Commerce in planning for the Federal Building at Hemisfair
in San Antonio, Texas.

This year also saw the fruition of almost two years of negotiations
between the United Fruit Company, the Organization for Tropical
Studies (a consortium of twenty-two universities and the Smithsonian) ,
which resulted in the setting up of formal courses at the Lancetilla
(Honduras) Botanical Gardens. A course in tropical forestry for twelve
forestry faculty members was held there in January and February;
this will be followed by regularly scheduled courses in tropical biology.

The Office contributed to the Smithsonian’s participation in the
work of the International Biological Program (inp) both through
Foreign Currency Program support for such 1Bp-sponsored projects as
the conference on conservation of arid lands, held at Hammanet, Tuni-
sia, in April 1968, and through the participation on the Interagency
Committee for the 1pp. It assisted in planning the United States role
in the forthcoming UNEsco conference on the Biosphere, to be held
in Paris in September 1968.
Smithsonian Institution Press

ANDERS RiIcHTER, Director

N THE COURSE OF THE PAST YEAR, the Smithsonian Institution Press
completed its formal development as a university press by concluding
arrangements for a full marketing program in domestic and foreign
areas. Under terms of a distribution contract executed with Random
House, Inc., effective 1 January 1968, the Random House sales force
has begun exclusive representation of Smithsonian books to the retail,
library, and institutional trade in the United States and Canada. The
backlist has been pared to 36 titles that justify commercial rep-
resentation, and seven new titles were announced for the Spring 1968
season. In addition, the revised Press catalog of private publications for
sale includes a number of softcover popular booklets and exhibit cata-
logs which are excluded from the Random House trade agreement but
are sold directly by the Press to the Smithsonian Shops and other cus-
tomers. A large part of the Press inventory of privately funded books
was transferred to the Random House distribution center in West-
minster, Maryland, where order fulfillment and shipping services are
provided. The Press business office and warehouse has retained a
portion of inventory from which to fill orders received from the
Smithsonian Shops, Smithsonian employees, the Smithsonian Associates,
and from foreign customers. On 7 March 1968, a contract was executed
with Feffer and Simons, Inc., a foreign sales agency in New York City,
for representation of Smithsonian publications in all foreign markets
except Canada.

The Press supported these new sales arrangements with an expanded
advertising and promotion program. Blanchard Associates of Washing-
ton, D.C., was commissioned as advertising agency, while the Press con-
tinued its own management of direct mail advertising. The year’s larg-
est campaign was a Christmas promotion of art books in a brochure
mailed to 36,700 names. A total of 25 space advertisements appeared
in the New York Times Book Review, Washington Post, Choice, Ento-
mological Society of America Bulletin, Art in America, Publisher's
Weekly, Library Journal, Book World, Museum News, Centaur Guide
to University Press Books, Smithsonian Journal of History, and Harness
Horse. As a result of the combined sales and advertising program, the

45
46 PUBLIC SERVICE AND INFORMATION

volume of publications sold increased to $100,678 from $41,563 in the
previous year, a gain of 142 percent.

The titles of 151 publications issued under the Smithsonian imprint
during fiscal 1968 are listed in Appendix 3. Production costs of 121
of these were funded by federal appropriation in the amount of $345,867 ;
25 were supported by Smithsonian private funds in the amount of
$179,723; and 1 publication was subsidized by grant in the amount of
$925. Press output has increased from 87 works published in fiscal 1966
to 130 in fiscal 1967 to 151 in the past year with no increase in Press
staff (28 employees were on the roll on 30 June 1968, the same number
as two years earlier). The growth in output will be arrested in the fu-
ture, however, by the inadequacy of federal funds appropriated for
Press expenditures. By the end of January 1968, the Press had obligated
all of its federal funds allocated to printing expenses in fiscal 1968 and,
for the succeeding three months, declared a moratorium on submission
of new manuscripts for publication at government expense. On 1 May
manuscripts were again accepted for editorial preparation, to be printed
in the following fiscal year. At the close of the year, a backlog of 36
manuscripts totaling 7,500 pages was editorially in progress or on hand
awaiting printing funds.

Included in the year’s issues were works of major importance. With
Sao Paulo 9, the Press inaugurated its publication of the two biennial
series of catalogs produced for the Venice and Sao Paulo international
art exhibitions, under the auspices of the National Collection of Fine
Arts. The record of the United States representation in alternate years
at these two preeminent exhibitions will be a chronicle of the develop-
ment of modern American art. The Press also issued the long-awaited
guide to the Museum of History and Technology as a service to visitors
of the most popular Smithsonian museum. Among the research mono-
graphs and papers appearing in the Smithsonian series were two which
epitomize the monumental character of scholarship which has repeatedly
distinguished the imprint. Following publication of Volume 1, Part 5, of
A Monograph of the Existing Crinoids, by Austin H. Clark and Ailsa
McGown Clark, H. B. Fell of Harvard University wrote: “There can be
no question that it is the one outstanding publication on echinoderms
in 1967, and also it is obvious that it will be the standard work on the
subject for at least the next hundred years.” The appearance of this Part
(Volume 2 remains uncompleted) terminates an undertaking initiated
by A. H. Clark in 1915 and halted by his death in 1954. An even larger
monument to scholarship was likewise concluded by publication of Life
Histories of North American Cardinals, Grosbeaks, Buntings, Towhees,
Finches, Sparrows, and Allies, in three parts. This publication completes
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION PRESS 47

a series covering the life histories of all North American birds in 23
volumes. Conceived by Arthur Cleveland Bent in 1910, the first of these
was published in 1919, and by the time of his death in 1954 at the age of
89, Bent had seen through the press 19 volumes, covering the life
histories of diving birds, gulls, terns, petrels, pelicans, wild fowl, marsh
birds, shore birds, Gallinaceous birds, birds of prey, woodpeckers,
cuckoos, goatsuckers, hummingbirds, flycatchers, larks, swallows, jays,
crows, titmice, nuthatches, wrens, thrashers, thrushes, kinglets, wagtails,
shrikes, vireos, and wood warblers. His literary executor, Wendell Taber,
carried the series through the twentieth volume, including blackbirds,
orioles, tanagers, and allies, before he died in 1960. The mantle then
descended on Oliver L. Austin, Jr. who, with extraordinary energy and
judgment, has updated, corrected, and edited the manuscripts submitted
by the several contributors to the final three volumes, and has given
this magnificent work its fitting culmination.

In the course of the past year, the director and managers of the Press,
believing that the older Smithsonian series no longer conform to the
organizational structure and program strengths of the Institution,
conferred at length with members of the major Bureaus involved in
regard to reorganization of the serials. Recommendations were drawn,
discussed with, and endorsed by the Editorial Policy Committee, and
finally approved by the Secretary. It was determined to discontinue the
United States National Museum Bulletins (inaugurated 1875), the
Proceedings of the United States National Museum (inaugurated 1878),
and the Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections (inaugurated 1858). In
their places will appear three new series: the Smithsonian Contributions
to Zoology, the Smithsonian Contributions to Paleobiology, and the
Smithsonian Contributions to the Earth Sciences. Finally, the existing
subseries Contributions from the United States National Herbarium
(inaugurated 1890) and Contributions from the Museum of History
and Technology (inaugurated 1959) will be established as independent
series under new titles: the Smithsonian Contributions to Botany and
the Smithsonian Studies in History and Technology. The Smithsonian
Contributions to Astrophysics (inaugurated 1956), and Smithsonian
Annals of Flight (inaugurated 1964), and Smithsonian Contributions
to Anthropology (inaugurated 1965) will continue unchanged.

The first two volumes of the Smithsonian Library, published by the
American Heritage Publishing Company under a cooperative agreement
with the Institution, appeared in early 1968. The Evolution of the
Machine by Ritchie Calder and The Forging of Our Continent by
Charlton Ogburn, Jr., carry out admirably, in their qualities of exposi-
tion and illustration, the objective of illuminating for the public at large
48 PUBLIC SERVICE AND INFORMATION

the process of the development of science. By the end of the year, eight
other books were under contract and in preparation or production for
the series.

Early in the fiscal year, over a period of several weeks, the business
office and warehouse were moved to the second floor of 1242 Twenty-
fourth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. The integration of the office
personnel and warehouse stock in a single location has improved the
efficiency of distribution, but the warehouse space afforded is barely
adequate for present needs and inadequate for future needs. Despite
the difficulties of the move, followed by the completion of transferring
stock to Random House, the business office and warehouse were able to
distribute 308,972 publications during the year. Random House, in
addition, distributed 8,773 books, for a grand total of 317,745.

The Press continues to administer a small branch of the Government
Printing Office which exists to serve immediate printing needs. The
print shop, with a staff of two journeymen, completed 868 jobs.

The director was again the Smithsonian’s representative on the Inter-
Agency Book Committee, and also served on the Education and Train-
ing Committee of the Association of American University Presses. As a
result of his proposal to the aAup Committee on Governmental and
Foundation Programs that the Association give particular attention to
the problems of scholarly publication in the fields of art and architecture,
the Smithsonian was host at its Belmont Conference Center to a meeting,
4-6 April 1968, convened by the aaup through a grant from the Na-
tional Endowment for the Humanities. He attended the meeting in com-
pany with other university press directors and a contingent of prominent
historians of art and architecture, whose frank appraisal of neglected |
areas of scholarly publication in these fields should furnish the Endow-
ment with guidance for future action.

In May, the director appeared on the NBC television and radio panel
series, “Georgetown Forum,” in a program sponsored by Georgetown
University entitled “Publishers, Who Needs Them?” The panel debated
the professional and social roles of publishing.

Managing editor Roger Pineau completed his editing of the unpub-
lished diary maintained by Commodore Matthew C. Perry during his |
Japan Expedition of 1852-1854. Pineau presented a number of il-
lustrated lectures on the Perry Expedition and undertook the assembly
of various objects for a future Smithsonian exhibit on the subject. He
took leave in July-August 1967, on commission of Reader’s Digest, for
research in Japan on the Russo-Japanese War of 1904-1905.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION PRESS 49

W. H. Auden, detained by a blizzard, finally reaches Washington for the recep-
tion that followed the ceremony during which he was awarded the National
Medal for Literature.

Managing designer Stephen Kraft taught a year’s course in ad-
vanced graphic design techniques at The American University. On 11
June 1968, by invitation of the American Association of State and Coun-
ty Historical Societies, he conducted a seminar for its members on the
design and production of printed materials at Nashville, Tennessee.
Press designer Crimilda Pontes again achieved the signal honor of plac-
ing her work among the 25 best university press book designs of the
year through selection by the aaup jury of her design for Swiss Drawings.

Perhaps nothing better expressed recognition of the Institution’s
role as a publisher than the National Medal for Literature ceremony
held at the Smithsonian on 30 November 1967. Following the Press
director’s informal offer of a Smithsonian site for the event, Secretary
Ripley’s invitation was accepted by the sponsoring National Book Com-
mittee. A buoyant group of publishers, literati, and government admin-
istrators beat its way to the Museum of History and Technology through
a Washington blizzard to celebrate presentation by National Book
Committee chairman William I. Nichols of the medal to W. H. Auden

50 PUBLIC SERVICE AND INFORMATION

for lifetime contributions to literature. Speeches were made by Smith-
sonian Secretary S. Dillon Ripley, by Secretary of Health, Education,
and Welfare John W. Gardner, and by Deputy Librarian of Congress
John Lorenz. Leo Rosten read the acceptance speech of Mr. Auden, who
was detained by the weather but who appeared later in the evening
at an enthusiastic reception. Mr. Ripley remarked, “We are
not daunted by this occasion, though I know that some people today
question whether all the muses are, or should be, welcome in a mu-
seum—the very institution that bears their name. I can think of no
better place and no better time to state my belief that they most cer-
tainly do belong. The literary character of the Smithsonian was im-
pressed on us by Joseph Henry, whose lively intellect translated the
word ‘diffusion’ in our credo to ‘publication.’ The Institution was, in
fact, begun as a publishing house as well as a center for advanced re-
search, has continued as such without interruption, and remains so
today through its Smithsonian Institution Press.”
The following papers were published by the staff:

Pineau, Rocer. “Okinawa.” In volume 6, no. 12 (pp. 2549-2554) of History
of the Second World War. London: Purnell and Sons, Ltd., 1968.

“Dr. Beishu Hara, A Living Cultural Treasure.” Japan Reader’s Di-

gest (February 1968), p. 131.

Smithsonian Institution Libraries

RuSSELL SHANK, Director

UTWARDLY, THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION LIBRARIES performed

much as in previous years, with no major changes in collections.
With the appointment of a new Director in September 1967, however,
the Libraries had taken a major step in the change of the library function
within the Institution. Rather than passively responding to the demands
of individual bureaus and divisions with disparate collections of litera-
ture, the library program aims to create an innovative and totally
responsive integrated system of Libraries and services capable of serving
the goals of the Institution directly through research, education, and
service programs of its own, as well as secondarily through its support
of the work of the Institution’s professional staff.

The work of the office of the Director focused on a survey of the
library activity within the Institution, and on an examination of deci-
sions relating to their daily operations for relevance to the functioning of
the Libraries as a system. By year’s end a program statement was taking
form that will describe, at least in a broad and general view, a modern,
visible, serviceable, and creative library enterprise at the Smithsonian.

Library materials continue to be acquired at a rate too rapid to allow
their processing completely according to the highest standards of intel-
lectual analysis and bibliographical control. The Libraries concentrated
on adding materials to the cataloged collections for which Library of
Congress cards were readily available. The collection of uncataloged
material, for which only a minimum inventory control is maintained,
continues to grow. The net result is an increase in the average time re-
quired for an order for new library material to be converted to a book on
the shelves fully ready for use.

A new concept of operation and related technology is required that
will provide hierarchies of control for access to the collections, each tail-
ored to different requirements for speed and precision of subject ap-
proach. Preliminary steps were taken to establish better control of
access by users to new materials before they are completely cataloged.
Late in the year, at the request of the Director of Libraries, the In-
formation Systems Division developed a technique for creating a

51
52 PUBLIC SERVICE AND INFORMATION

frequent in-process report, using the computer-based records of pur-
chased materials. That report, under test at the close of the year, will
be an important device, both to notify the Smithsonian’s professional
staff of the status of the processing of books and journals they have had
ordered for the Libraries, and to the Libraries’ technical service staff
for management control of the various stages of processing. The Librar-
ies will be able to improve the quality of acquisitions services through
the analysis of the same basic record in order, for example, to measure
vendors’ performance in terms of speed and cost of fulfillment of orders.

The amount of library material available for acquisition by research
libraries has expanded in recent years far beyond the capacity of any
research library to acquire it all, and thus to become self-sufficient.
Cooperative acquisitions, shared cataloging on both a national and
international basis, interlibrary lending, and the opening of otherwise
restricted resources for reasonable use by all qualified scholars, are tech-
niques that have assumed commanding importance in the manage-
ment of research library enterprises. At the Smithsonian, for example,
the circulation during the year of materials borrowed from other librar-
ies increased at a greater rate than the circulation of the Libraries’ own
material. The Library of Congress remains the single most important
outside source for these materials.

The informal networks that have been created among research
libraries for interlibrary lending and shared cataloging have prospects
of becoming more formal, and of increasing the power of their inter-
actions through the recent development by the Library of Congress of
a machine-readable format with which to distribute among libraries
cataloging information on computer tapes. The first tapes to be dis-
tributed by the Library of Congress will be available in 1968. Because
they will communicate information, at first only for a limited number of
English language titles, for which the Smithsonian Institution Libraries
now receive free printed Library of Congress cards, the Libraries have
begun to examine carefully their service requirements in order to assess
tradeoffs, while making administrative decisions with regard to the,
introduction of computer-based services.

Problems of developing and managing the library collection assumed
early and high priority in the office of the Director. Hitherto, library
materials have been acquired haphazardly in response to the immediate
and urgent needs of individual professional staff members, and in re-
sponse to the offerings of agencies and individuals throughout the world |
in exchange for Smithsonian publications. The Institution now faces’
the task of examining the basis for decisions on the selection of library
materials, of coordinating the efforts of the scientists and curators in
the selection processes, and of providing mechanisms to assure the

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION LIBRARIES 53

availability of comprehensive, basic, research collections in general
areas of concern to the Smithsonian. Our goal is to give the Libraries the
ability to respond quickly to specific program changes within the In-
stitution, and to modifications of bureau and departmental organization.

Dialogues were begun in midyear with the librarians of several major
branches to search for the fundamental issues that will serve as a basis
for the subsequent preparation of policy statements on collection devel-
opment. Miss Jean C. Smith, formerly assistant director of libraries,
rejoined the staff to serve as a special assistant to the Director for
biological science programs, with major emphasis on matters relating
to the collections. Work was begun by a special task group on revi-
talizing the collections of the branch that serves the Office of
Anthropology. Duplicates and material that is out of scope are being
discarded. The whole collection will be integrated through recataloging
according to the Library of Congress classification. This project is an
outstanding demonstration of the manner in which the serviceability of
the rest of the Institution’s library facilities can be improved.

The Libraries have increased their service, both to other libraries
and to the community of scholars, responding to more than 66,000
visitors, phone calls, and reference letters requesting information and
publications, an increase of about five percent over the previous year.
The potential for federal and related libraries to work together to serve
their missions more fully continues to be enhanced by the work of the
Federal Library Committee. The Smithsonian Institution Libraries in-
creased their involvement with the Committee to include representation
on task forces studying the role of libraries and information centers, and
the problems of education for federal librarianship. The Committee’s
task force on library education, chaired by the Director, assisted the
graduate library school at Catholic University in its sponsorship of an
institute for library school faculty members on federal librarianship.
The task force led the way for the establishment of a curriculum devel-
opment study for training federal librarians. During National Library
Week the Smithsonian served as the platform for a public forum on
library service in urban slum areas. A children’s art exhibit, prepared
with the assistance of William Walker, librarian of the National Col-
lection of Fine Arts/National Portrait Gallery branch library, was pre-
sented in the Arts and Industries building. Secretary Ripley was key-
note speaker at the annual banquet.

Most large research libraries are conducting research and develop-
ment in the application of computers to what is loosely called library

utomation. Computers will ultimately play a large role in supporting
he information services of the Smithsonian’s library system. Informa-
tion science and technology, however, is far from being capable of sus-
54 PUBLIC SERVICE AND INFORMATION

taining the operation of any fully automated, large-scale, broad subject-
based research library.

As resources become available, the Smithsonian Libraries will join
the national movement among libraries to develop applications of com-
puters to the intellectual aspects of library service. A major goal is the
creation of literature-based information services that will be linked to
the new data-processing systems being developed for the management
and analysis of the collections of specimens and objects in the museums.
Meanwhile, automation efforts aim at raising the level of quality and the
economy of operation of basic housekeeping operations such as book
ordering and accounting, process control, and serials inventory. Recent
projects supporting this goal are mentioned elsewhere in this report.

The capability of the Libraries to capitalize on the new technologies
affecting library service continues to be strengthened by the involve-
ment of its staff in substantive activities of the library world in which the
technologies are developing. The Director served during the year as
vice president of the information science and automation division of
the American Library Association, during which time the division estab-
lished a new research journal on this subject and approved several na-
tional standards for computer-aided cataloging. Carol Raney, the head
of the Libraries’ cataloging division, was elected vice president and
president-elect of the resources and technical services division of the
American Library Association. That division developed the ALA cata-
loging code which serves as the basis for the Anglo-American rules for
cataloging used by research libraries throughout the world. William
Walker worked on the revision of the fine arts section of the Library
of Congress classification system and assistant director Mary Huffer
continued to lead the way in identifying processes in the libraries that
were immediately amenable to automation.

The Libraries’ year may thus be characterized as one of continued
offerings of service at a higher level of output, of improving performance
capability through an upgrading of automation effort, and of analysis
of future directions for a modern museum research library enterprise.

The following papers were presented or published by the staff:

Goopwin, J. “Current Bibliography in the History of Technology (1966).”
Technology and Culture, vol. 9, pp. 277-327, 1968.

SHANK, R. Regional Access to Scientific and Technical Information: A pro- |

gram for Action in the New York Metropolitan Area. New York: New
York Reference and Research Library Agency, 1968.

posium on national library services to the public, Eastern College Librarians

Conference, November 1967, Columbia University, New York, N.Y.]
Wacker. W. “Another Part of the Iceberg: Art Library Resources at the

Smithsonian Institution.” D.C. Libraries, vol. 38, pp. 70-75, 1967.

“The Smithsonian Institution Libraries.” [Paper presented at a sym- |

|

Information Systems Division

NicHoLas J. SuSzyYNSKI, JR., Director

N ANNOUNCING THE OFFICIAL OPENING of the new Smithsonian In-
formation Systems Division Computer Center, Secretary Ripley said:
No product of modern technology has as much potential for social,
economic and cultural benefits as does the digital computer. As
an instrument of social change, the computer provides both the
impetus behind the information explosion and it also offers the
means for containing and recalling information when needed for
the solutions of specific problems.
The Information Systems Division serves as an interpreter and a
diagnostician of information problems within the Smithsonian
Institution, and to the extent that its resources permit, it provides
automatic data processing and systems engineering expertise to the
museum community in general.
In its research role, the Information Systems Division engages in
experimentation leading to better information retrieval techniques
and better understanding of the man-machine interaction, par-
ticularly as applied to multicomputer tele-processing and multi-
programming environment.

By September 1968, the Smithsonian Information Systems Center,

on the third floor of the Arts and Industry building’s southwest court,
will have:

A Honeywell-1250 computer with 131,000 positions of memory.
Six high-speed magnetic tape transports (devices for “writing” and “read-
ing” of information on magnetic tapes, analogous to a tape recorder).
Five magnetic disc drives (with 45 million positions for directly accessible
data storage. )

Card punch (for recording data on cards)

Card Reader (for transferring data from cards into a computer or to tape
or to a printer)

High-speed printer (950 lines, or 100,000 characters, per minute)

Data plotter manufactured by the Electronic Associates Inc.

In addition to equipment, the Center will have a telecommunication

access to the CDC-—6400 computer at the Smithsonian Astrophysical Ob-
servatory in Cambridge, Massachusetts (see Year 1967, p. 204). Also,

55
56 PUBLIC SERVICE AND INFORMATION

Honeywell—1250 computer installation in the Computer Center.

additional computing capabilities on an IBM 360/30 computer are
available at the Smithsonian Science Information Exchange, in Wash-
ington, D.C., and on a UNIVAC 1108 at the Center for Computer
Sciences and Technology at the National Bureau of Standards in
Gaithersburg, Md.

The Honeywell-1250 computer operates continuously, on the basis
of three eight-hour shifts daily, and as a part of its facilities, the Center
offers daily data preparation, tabulating, and card punching services.

The Information Systems Center is comprised of an information re-
trieval section, a mathematical computation section, and a management
systems section. The Center, in addition to providing systems analysis,
programming, and computer time, has been established for the purpose
of planning, coordinating and directing the preparation of systems, pro-
grams, and uses of automatic data processing equipment for the Institu-
tion. It is responsible for the overall review of automatic data process-

ing (ADP) and source data automation requirements of the various
Smithsonian activities and for recommending policies and programs to,

meet these requirements.

The information retrieval section is concerned with information sys- |

tems used for indexing and data retrieval. A continuing program of
research and development in these techniques is carried out to bring to

the Institution a spectrum of indexing and retrieval systems that pro- |
vide maximum capability and utility at minimum cost. Various tech- |
niques for randomizing, set theory recovery, hardware-independent }

INFORMATION SYSTEMS DIVISION By

Sine
ATS

CDC 6400 (SAO)
CAMBRIDGE, MASS,

A]
HONEYWELL 120 * - ore
ROCHESTER, N.Y. ing= is
HONEYWELL 200 * (sao)
CAMBRIDGE, MASS,

== 18M 360/30 (SIE)
RN WASHINGTON, D.C,
cS) (BACKUP FACILITY
UNIVAC 1108 (NBS) NOT IN THE NETWORK)
GAITHERSBURG, MD, (PLANNED) is
[eS Se
pany 5 ce
Ss
aS HONEYWELL 1250 (|NFORMATION SYSTEMS)
iaSsiis WASHINGTON, D, C,

.
.
|

HONEYWELL DATA STATION
(BUREAU OF MINES)
ARLINGTON, VA, (PLANNED)

ZN OPERATES USING DIAL-UP SYSTEM TO AND FROM HONEYWELL 1250,

“ OPERATES USING DIRECT-ACCESS LINES TO THE CDC COMPUTER,

Smithsonian Institution computer-communications network.

query, synonymy rectification, coordinate indexing, concordance compi-
lation, and dynamic significance redefinition, and for providing global
reference denominators are made available to Smithsonian museums
and, where possible, to the museum community in the United States
and abroad. For example:

An information-retrieval system to cross-index any collection by
200 key categories was developed.
A concordance index containing up to one hundred chapters of

key terms and providing cross-reference indexing to any collection of
jspecimens, artifacts, or printed records was implemented. The system

315-997 O-69-5
58 PUBLIC SERVICE AND INFORMATION

indexes key-words and displays fragments of text (portraying context of
use) in its index.

A digital code with associated procedures was developed that per- —

mitted phylogenetic sequencing of biological data as processed by a
computer. The system solved problems associated with synonymy and
is capable of hierarchical data retrieval.

The significance of data parameters often changes as preliminary
computer output is reviewed. Research with the copoL (Common
Business Oriented Language) compilation system provided insight into
techniques for dealing with this problem. As a result of this experi-
mentation, a procedure was developed which permits dynamic redefini-
tion of parameters of interest for query and is independent of parameters
used in describing input data.

Several generic systems were developed for the storage and retrieval
of data. They are flexible enough to be of specific utility to particular
requirements and are general enough to have many applications
throughout the Institution. The retrieval techniques vary with the re-
quirements and with the structure, content, and orientation of the data
file to be processed.

The mathematical computations section provides mathematical
analysis and computer programming to aid Smithsonian scientists in
presenting and interpreting their research data. The analysis ranges
from simple correlation and regression analysis to complex multivariate

statistical analysis, and from simple formula evaluation to the building —

of mathematical models to simulate biological phenomena. Systems
design and computer programming are also provided to perform mathe-
matical computations to process raw data, and to tabulate and graphi-
cally present the results. For example:

A common denominator code was devised to interrelate the dis-
parate but traditional conventions used in expressing locations of the
globe. Latitude-longitude coordinates, Marsden quadrangles, and politi-
cal and geographic names are all transformed into a common code
which facilitates retrieval of data.

Computer programs were developed to perform data reduction and
statistical analysis dealing with neutron activation experiments (for the
Conservation Analytical Laboratory) to determine the amount of trace
elements present in the archeological artifacts, thereby establishing if
the artifact is native to the area of discovery.

Statistical analysis employing distance coefficients, cluster analysis,
and analysis of variance was performed for the Department of Paleobi-
ology in the Museum of Natural History.

INFORMATION SYSTEMS DIVISION 59

ForTRAN computer programs were implemented to perform time-
series analysis of the prices of commodities in the trade-historical data
for the Museum of History and Technology.

Computer programs were developed to read data from punched
paper tape containing data quantifying the intensity of solar radiation
over broad frequency bands. This data is edited for completeness and
correctness, and then is reduced, plotted, and returned to the Radiation
Biology Laboratory.

The management systems section provides support to the adminis-
trative, curatorial, and research activities that require automatic data
processing of business or fiscal data. In addition, it provides maintenance
support for business or accounting systems already in operation. During
the year, systems were developed and initiated in a number of areas.
For example, the Institution’s accounting offices were provided with
completely new accounting and reporting systems. A coordinated system
was developed to handle all payrolls. A property management system
was developed to satisfy the needs of both the supply division and the
fiscal offices, and action was initiated to develop a research property
system that will provide scientists with cataloged information as to the
availability of research equipment. For the Smithsonian Oceanographic
Sorting Center, a specimen inventory system was developed to provide
an up-to-date inventory of specimens collected or distributed. For the
Office of Public Affairs a consolidated central mailing system was devel-
oped to provide labels for mass mailings from the Institution.

The staff of the Information Systems Center contains experts in vari-
ous areas of information processing who participate in symposia, tech-
nical panels, professional conferences and present papers as time permits.
This group provides synergistic cross-fertilization which makes each indi-
vidual stronger and more valuable than each would be alone. The
recently developed “Global Reference Index” is an example of such
collaboration, for the techniques used are not those usually associated
with the natural sciences. To produce this index required a knowledge
of Boolean Algebra, of algorithm structure, and of computer techniques
combined with a knowledge of the traditional means of identifying a
point on the globe.

During the year, the Center offered several training programs in
computer programming, it provided self-study material for the sci-
entific and curatorial staff, and established a library of statistical pro-
grams. Under preparation is a brooklet describing in detail the facilities
of the Center and relating their capabilities to the activities and needs
of the Institution.

60 PUBLIC SERVICE AND INFORMATION

At the symposium on Information Problems in Natural Sciences,
held in Mexico City in December 1967, Creighton, Crockett, and
Suszynski delivered papers, and Suszynski chaired one session. They
also provided the symposium’s films, as well as educational materials
for its “Computer Theater.”

Canadian, British, Mexican, and United States Museums and uni-
versities expressed interest in the technological aspects of data processing
and information storage techniques developed at the Center. Technical
information was provided to the following:

Canada: National Museum of Canada. England: Sedgwick Mu-
seum, The Royal College of Art, British Museum, H. M. Treasury, and
Office for Scientific and Technical Information. Mexico; Centro de
Calculo Electronico, Mexico, D.F. Sweden: Historiska Museet,
Narvavagen, and Upsala Universitet. United States: The American
Museum of Natural History, Colorado School of Mines, Museum Com-
puter Network (a consortium of primarily New York City museums for
thé purpose of establishing a computerized information network), Sys-
tems Development Corporation, and U.S. Geological Survey.

Experts from the Center were requested to visit and consult with staff

members of the National Museum of Canada and the Metropolitan —

Museum of Art, and the Royal College of Art in England (the last
invitation had to be declined for lack of funds).
The following papers were presented by the staff:

CreicHTon, Recinatp A. An Information Storage and Retrieval System for
Biological and Geological Data, Design Consideration. Presented at the

Symposium Sobre Problemas de Informacion en Ciencias Naturales, Mexico, —

D.F., December 1967.

AuumaDaA, S., G. G. SHETLER, and JaMEs J. Crockett. An Automated Bibliog-
raphy for the Flora of North America. Presented at the Symposium Sobre
Problemas de Informacion en Ciencias Naturales, Mexico, D.F. December
1967.

SuszynskI, NIcHOLAs J., Jk. Telécommunication and On-line Access to Com-
puters. Presented at the Symposium Sobre Problemas de Informacion en
Ciencias Naturales, Mexico, D.F., December 1967.

Computer Installation Planning. Presented at the International Data

Processing Management Association Conference in Washington, D.C., June

1968.

Science Information Exchange

Monroe E. FREEMAN, Director

BREE SISERATION WITH THE SCIENCE INFORMATION EXCHANGE Of cur-

rent research projects from government and nongovernment
research reached a total of over 97,000 during the year. Over 8,000
questions were answered for individual scientists. Over 300,000 copies of
individual research summaries were made available to the national
scientific community during the year.

A major innovation recently implemented by the sm was the
establishment of a randomly accessible data bank which contains all
information pertinent to the research notices received by the Exchange.
It represents another in a continuing series of steps to realize the bene-
fits which the modern computer has made available and to provide
a highly integrated man-plus-machine information system capable of
expeditiously yet inexpensively fulfilling the s1z mission.

Many general improvements were provided with the initial version of
the system. Previously the files of ste had been updated twice monthly.
Now they are updated daily and are thus able to provide more timely
information. Internally the new system has reduced the elapsed time
required for documents to flow through various stages of input proc-
essing. Capabilities for changing, adding, or deleting data fields have
been improved. Input and indexing functions have been simplified and
the keypunch operations have been significantly reduced. Three stages
of input editing have been replaced by a single one which actually assures
more accurate data on file. Finally the system provides the capacity to:
(1) Input and store the full research abstract in machine-readable form,
which will provide improved service to users of the Exchange; (2) pro-
vide online access to all str data through the use of video display units, an
ultimate objective of the Exchange system; and (3) to quickly generate
research catalogs from str data at significantly lower cost for federal
agencies.

This improved system required some eight man-years of effort and
was put into production within one month of the target date, predicted
and scheduled over 18 months previously.

The Exchange will begin putting the full text of its research notices
in machineable form in July 1968, via an 1mm administrative terminal

61
62 PUBLIC SERVICE AND INFORMATION

Director Monroe Freeman of the Science Information Exchange
presses the “start’’ button for the data bank’s first run in May.

system. When all the information is in machineable form, sIE can
provide full text records for government agencies and for the govern-
ment-wide inter-agency Exchange.

The Exchange has continued to increase its coverage of research
in urban planning. A compilation of current studies in urban planning
provided to the Office of Intergovernmental Relations and Urban
Programs Coordination was well received by urban specialists. It is
hoped that increased registration of projects in this most important
and timely area will be encouraged.

As the national cataloging center for water resources research, SIE
prepared volume 3 of the Water Resources Research Catalog for the
Office of Water Resources Research, Department of the Interior.

Outdoor Recreation Research—A Reference Catalog—1967 was
also prepared for the Bureau of Outdoor Recreation, Department of the
Interior.

A new concept for compiling and tabulating information about cur-
rent research activity in broad research programs was designed and
developed. The principle advantage is the display of condensed infor-
mation in the form of distribution charts for the more convenient

SCIENCE INFORMATION EXCHANGE 63

inspection, review, and analysis of broad subject fields. Test models are
now in the hands of industrial and government research program
administrators and managers for their comments and suggestions. If
favorable, the process can be highly automated and made widely avail-
able at nominal cost.
The following papers were presented or published by the staff.

FrEEMAN, M. E. “Panel on The Role of Federal Government Programs.”

Presented before Conference on Technology Utilization and Economic

Growth. Sponsored by Aerospace Research Applications Center at Indiana
Memorial Union, Bloomington, Indiana, 31 July—4 August 1967.

“National Information Needs for Urban Transportation Management

Decision Making.” Presented before Engineering Foundation Research
Conference, Proctor Academy, Andover, New Hampshire, 14-16 August.
1967.

“The Science Information Exchange: A Registry of Research in
Progress.” Presented at California Institute of Technology (sponsored by
NASA-SBA), 12 October 1967.

“Information Strategy of Research Management.” Research Man-
agement, vol. 11, no. 2 (March 1968).

“Science Information Exchange.” Presented before the 52nd Con-
ference for Eastern College Librarians, Harkness Theater, Butler Library,
Columbia University, New York, New York, 25 November 1967.

“Scientific Information Storage and Retrieval System.’ Presented
before National Council of University Research Administrators, Mayflower
Hotel, Washington, D.C., 20 November 1967.

“SIE—A National Inventory of Research in Progress.” Presented
before First Annual ARISTOTLE Symposium sponsored by National Security
Industrial Association, Washington, D.C., 7 December 1967.

. “The Science Information Exchange as a Source of Information.”
Special Libraries, February 1968, pp. 86-88.

“Science Information Exchange.” Military Medicine, vol. 133, no.
3 (March 1968), pp. 223-225.

“Scope and Objectives of the Science Information Exchange.” Pre-
sented before members of Science and Technology Committee, Chamber of
Commerce of the United States, Sheraton-Carlton Hotel, Washington, D.C.,
25 January 1968.

“Science Information Exchange.” Presented before Technology Util-
ization Conference at Miami University, Oxford, Ohio. Sponsored by
representative Donald LuKens (Ohio) and arranged by NASA, 1 April
1968.

“Science Information Exchange of Smithsonian Institution Offers New
Services to Navy Managers.” Navy-Management Review, April-June 1968.

Hersey, D. F. “Information Exchanges and the Research Community.” Pre-
sented to the Information Retrieval Workshop, University of Wisconsin,
Madison, Wisconsin, 21-22 September 1967.

“Chemistry of Viruses.”” Presented before the American Institute of
Chemists Meeting of the D.C. Chapter, 16 January 1968.

64 PUBLIC SERVICE AND INFORMATION

“The Role of the Science Information Exchange in the Nuclear
Technology Field.” Presented before Conference on Technology Utiliza-
tion, Seattle, Washington, 25 April 1968.

“Breaking the Information Barrier.” Presented before the Small
Business Administration Training Center, Small Business Administration,
Silver Spring, Maryland, 19 June 1968.

Lone, Birt L. “A National Cataloging Center for Water Resources Research.”
Journal American Water Works Association, vol. 59, no. 8 (August 1967),
pp. 930-934.

International Exchange Service

J. A. Coxuins, Director

ik FACILITATE THE DISTRIBUTION of Smithsonian publications in other

countries, the Institution established the International Exchange
Service. Agents were appointed in a number of countries to distribute
Smithsonian publications and to receive in return publications from the
foreign organizations for transmission to the Smithsonian Institution.
This method proved so satisfactory that other non-profit organizations in
the United States were permitted to utilize the Service, and later Con-
gress designated the Smithsonian Institution as the agency through
which the official United States publications would be exchanged for the
official publications of other countries.

Libraries, scientific societies, educational institutions, and individuals
in the United States wishing to exchange their publications with similar
organizations in other countries, send addressed packages of publica-
tions to the Smithsonian Institution, where they are sorted according
to countries of destination and are forwarded to one of the 37 exchange
bureaus in other countries for distribution, or are sent directly to the
addressees by mail. In return the Service receives addressed packages
of publications from the foreign exchange bureaus for similar distri-
bution in the United States.

Addressed packages of publications weighing 844,413 pounds were
received during the year from more than 350 colleges, universities,
learned societies, and other organizations in the United States for trans-
mission to some 100 countries. In return 105,861 pounds of addressed
packages of publications were received from the foreign bureaus for
distribution in the United States.

Packages of publications were accepted for transmission to all coun-
tries except the mainland of China, North Korea, and North Viet-Nam.

During the year the United States official publications were sent to
105 organizations in other countries in exchange for their official docu-
ments. A partial set of United States publications is now being sent to
the Central National Library, Seoul, Korea, in exchange for the official
documents of Korea.

The daily issues of the Federal Register and the Congressional Record

65
66 PUBLIC SERVICE AND INFORMATION

were sent to 136 foreign libraries in exchange for their parliamentary
journals.

The Service moved to new quarters during the year, and is now
located at 1242 Twenty-Fourth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20037.

PACKAGES RECEIVED FOR TRANSMISSION FROM FOREIGN AND
DOMESTIC SOURCES, FISCAL YEAR 1968

Received by the

For transmission abroad Smithsonian for :
by the Smithsonian distribution in the
Classification United States

Number of — Weight in Number of Weight in
packages pounds packages pounds

U.S. parliamentary documents |

received for transmission

abroad eat aes eae sere eee 817, 236° 3733537 - -
Publications received from foreign

sources for U.S. parliamentary

AGGLESSCES eerie ha iar Peek - - 95389 10, 045
U.S. departmental documents re-

ceived for transmission abroad. 272,552 254, 828 = =
Publications received from foreign

sources for U.S. departmental

AGGrESSCES rh eee ree ae — - 14,118 NZ, US30/
Miscellaneous scientific and

literary publications received

for transmission abroad........ 150, 081 216, 048 = =
Miscellaneous scientific and

literary publications received |

from abroad for distribution in

thesWnited States: «= 45.2: .445 - - 45, 409 78, 079
‘Rotaliina eee fetter Seer oe 1,239,869 844, 413 68, 916 105, 861

Total packages received.... 1, 308, 785
Total pounds received...... = = = 950, 274

Office of Public Affairs

Freperic M. Puiips, Director

ihe OFFICE OF PUBLIC AFFAIRS, in its first year of existence as an
organizational entity, devoted its energies to broadening and enrich-
ing the many channels of communication through which the Smith-
sonian serves both its visitors and the public at large.

The major operating premise of this Office is that a great and unique
national institution such as the Smithsonian fully performs its function
only when it broadly informs and communicates with the nation’s
public by all practical means. The Office is organized to this end.

With the cooperation of the Office of Public Affairs, television net-
works, local TV stations, USIA, Westinghouse Broadcasting Company,
the British Broadcasting Corporation, Japan Broadcasting Company
and others produced film reports concerned whole or in part with
Smithsonian activities. NBC presented the documentary “Man, Beast
and the Land” on the work of Smithsonian conservationists Marty and
Lee Talbot—the ecology of East Africa—and on conservation of wildlife
in the Serengeti plains. The NBC Children’s Theater presented “The
Enormous Egg,” the story of a dinosaur who comes to the Smithsonian.
Agreements were reached with producers for further documentary
specials for television.

Radio activities were carried forward through such programs as
“Master Control,” twelve programs on Smithsonian activities for broad-
cast in the United States and foreign countries, prepared by the
Radio Commission of the Southern Baptist Convention, the concert series
“Music From the Smithsonian” on station WAMU, and broad partici-
pation in interviews, discussions, and panel shows.

Attendance at the Smithsonian Film Theater, which presents weekly
educational films from October through May, increased more than
fifty percent, with a total attendance of 18,100. The slides, slide lectures,
and films available on loan to educational institutions, constantly in
demand, continued to be fully booked far in advance. Special film
shows were arranged throughout the year.

Inauguration of a TV film-clip service broadened the Office’s news
and photography programs. In more traditional news activities, 206

67
68 PUBLIC SERVICE AND INFORMATION

Public affairs activities. A: George Berklacy at teletype machine; B: Margaret
Dress dispensing leaflets; C: Mary Krug working on the Torch, the Smithsonian
employees newspaper; D: Fredric M. Philips and Mrs. Morris Cafritz with model
of a Calder sculpture during presentation ceremony.

news releases, 11 in-depth news features, and 35 radio releases covering
all areas of Smithsonian activities were issued. Major events requiring
sustained effort included the first annual Folklife Festival in July, the
opening of the Anacostia Neighborhood Museum in September, and
the opening of the National Collection of Fine Arts in May. Nineteen
press previews and conferences were held.

The Torch and the Associate, two monthly news publications, have
a combined circulation of 10,000. The Smithsonian Calendar of Events,
which now features a new and expanded press, is issued to more than

20,000 persons monthly.
PUBLIC AFFAIRS 69

William Grayson and Ann Rushforth, on left, screening a film; center, President
Johnson, former Senator William Benton, and Secretary Ripley being greeted by
Meredith Johnson, chief, special events; on right, Marilyn Danner and Mary Ann
Friend posting a performance at the Smithsonian film theater.

Up-to-the-minute information on daily events and exhibits was pro-
vided to 60,250 callers on the recorded telephone service Dial-A-
Museum. With information furnished by the Smithsonian Astrophysi-
cal Observatory, the Dial-A-Satellite service provided 135,250 indi-
viduals with information enabling them to view artificial satellites as
well as other celestial bodies.

Smithsonian special events, another element of office responsibility,
covered a wide area of presentations, lectures, openings, musical pro-
grams, conferences, movies and receptions. In all, a total of 624 special
events were organized and conducted during the year. In addition Secre-
tary Ripley was host to the diplomatic corps, co-host with Vice Presi-
dent Humphrey at a luncheon honoring the President of Iceland, and
co-host with the Chief Justice at luncheon for the President of Tunisia.
Smithsonian facilities are becoming increasingly popular for use by
other government agencies for special activities that this year included
official farewells to both Assistant Secretary of State Frankel and Secre-
tary of Health, Education and Welfare Gardner in the Museum of
History and Technology. Other diverse events included celebration of
the 200th anniversary of the Encyclopaedia Britannica, in which Presi-
dent Johnson participated; presentation by the Italian Ambassador, for
the City of Genoa, of a medal to the Vice President; induction of the
officers of the Women’s National Press Club; and presentation of the
National Medal for Literature to Wystan Hugh Auden. Photographic
coverage is provided for all special events.

In the field of visitor services, weekend tours of the Museum of History

and Technology were organized through the generous cooperation of
70 PUBLIC SERVICE AND INFORMATION

the Junior League of Washington. Building guides and informative leaf-
lets were provided to the Institution’s millions of visitors. The process
of computerizing the Institution’s mailing lists to facilitate providing
information to the public was advanced considerably. In addition, the
Office responded to an average of 250 telephone inquiries a day.
Division of Performing Arts

James Morris, Director

‘bee NEW DIVISION OF PERFORMING ARTS was formed on 1 July 1967

to manage and produce programs which increase the educational
experience of the museum visitor. The “lively arts” are vitally important
as means of cultural transmission, and the selection of presentations is
largely determined by the need for illustrating both popular and little-
known aspects of human expression. Such presentations contribute
significantly to the greater understanding by American and foreign
visitors of the esthetic traditions and developments of our national
culture. The staff of the new division was drawn largely from members
of the former museum services division.

The first annual Festival of American Folklife was developed and
presented in July 1967. The initial program drew heavily on the accu-
mulated field research and experience of Ralph Rinzler, Director of
Field Programs for the Newport Foundation. It drew some 431,000
people to the Mall for a living exhibition of folk culture with demon-
strations by craftsmen of pottery, basketry, toy making, carving, and
weaving; and by live performances of traditional folk music and dance.
Rinzler remained on the staff during much of the year and was respon-
sible for developing new research programs in numerous areas of the
United States, including exploration into several areas which had previ-
ously been ignored and unrecorded. During the year, he and Director
James Morris were consulted regarding development of an international
jazz festival in New Orleans, Louisiana, a folk culture center in Mt.
View, Arkansas, and other programs in Virginia, North Carolina, Texas,
Alaska, Washington State, and Pennsylvania. Extensive effort was de-
voted to the development of the second annual Festival of American
Folklife with emphasis on little-known craft processes and Indian and
Negro culture. Ten speakers, including members of the Smithsonian
staff and scholars from abroad, were brought together for a 10-week
course in American Folk Culture that was presented for members of the
Smithsonian Associates in spring 1968.

During the fall and winter season several programs were developed
and presented for the Smithsonian Associates. Among them was a con-
cert by the Gregg Smith Singers presenting the vocal music of Charles

71
72 PUBLIC SERVICE AND INFORMATION

Scene from the Prague mario-
nette theater, performed in the
new Smithsonian puppet theater.

Ives, one of America’s greatest, yet least-known, composers. It was
hailed by local critics as one of the most significant musical events of the
season. Other programs included traditional music, chamber music, a
dramatized reading of the death of Socrates—featuring the renowned
actor Walter Abel—and presentation of the Kyogen Theater of Japan
on its visit to the United States. During the Christmas season, a produc-
tion of Masques, Mimes and Miracles, a traditional English mummers
play of 16th-century England, was offered as a means of understanding
a past culture which ultimately manifested great influence on the
English-speaking people of the new world.

Sound and Light, a production featuring the recreation of history by
means of sounds, voices, and highly developed lighting techniques con-
tinued in its preproduction stages, with final presentation scheduled for
1969. Also offered as a means of enlivening the total environment of
the museums and the surroundings were a variety of summer outdoor
programs which included a series of Wednesday evening concerts, Fri-
day evening barbershop singing, and such special events as a perform-
ance by the Fife and Drum Corps of Basel, Switzerland, and a modern
dance program by the American choreographer Erick Hawkins. Two
weeks of puppet theater, offered audiences an opportunity to experience
the art of Jacques Chesnais Puppet Theater of Paris and the Czech
Puppet Theater. The overwhelming popular success of these appear-
ances encouraged the formation of the Smithsonian Puppet Theater,
which offered daily performances all summer in a gaily colored tent
theater on the Mall.

In March the division produced the second annual Rites of Spring,
an occasion celebrating the opening of the museums during the evening
and increased public service to the visitor. The program offered examples
of the use of the outdoor environment for city parks and recreation
centers and included balloon flights, exhibitions, demonstrations of poster
painting and collage construction, music, carousel rides, and athletic
PERFORMING ARTS 73

The Aylords, a rock-and-roll group, performing at the second annual Rites of
Spring held on the Mall.

demonstrations. Congressman Andrew Jacobs of Indiana commented in
the Congressional Record (2 April 1968) on the “. . . genuine sense of
community, a thriving sense of involvement in the heart of this great city.
The huge crowd was friendly and polite, reflecting an attitude which
comes from sharing common pleasures. . . . The Institution seems to
understand that culture is a total way of life of a people, not merely a
treasure house for academicians or a plaything for the elite.”

The cultural activities events of the National Park Service’s “Summer
In The Parks” program were also conceived and mounted by this divi-
sion. Mobile art demonstrations, jazz and folk concerts, puppet theater,
and a film theater were held in 20 parks during a 10-week period
throughout Washington.

A total of 604,500 people attended the 26 Smithsonian productions of
this year, and additional hundreds of thousands attended the “Summer
In The Parks” programs.

Programs Presented

1-4 July Festival of American Folklife

5 July ‘Music on the Mall,’’ Washington Ballet

7 July Barbershop Concert, The Historyland Chorus and the
Manassanaires

315-997 O- 69-6
74

PUBLIC SERVICE AND INFORMATION

Masques, Mimes, and Miracles, a mummers play of the Stuart Restoration period
relating the story of St. George and the Dragon, was performed during the
Christmas season.

12 July
14 July
19 July
21 July
23-28 July
26 July
28 July

29 July—5 August
2

August
4 August
9 August
9 August
18 August
26 August
15 September
24 October
7 November
27 December—
6 January
27 February
1 March
26 March
30-31 March
21 May

‘Music on the Mall,” Jacob Barkin, soloist

Barbershop Concert, Arlingtones, and the Marylandaires
“Music on the Mall,’’ Opera and Operatta

Annual Barbershop Chorus of the Potomac

Puppet Theater, Jacques Chesnais’ ‘“Comediens de Bois”
“Music on the Mall,’ The Summer Symphony Orchestra
Barbershop Concert, The Singing Capital Chorus

Puppet Theater, The Prague Marionette Theater

“Music on the Mall,”’ Concerto Night

Barbershop Concert, The Counts

“Music on the Mall,”’ Jazz Concert

Fife and Drum Hour, Olympia Society from Basel, Switzerland
Barbershop Concert, The Jubil-aires

Erick Hawkins Dance Company

Jazzmobile

Gregg Smith Singers

A concert of “Folksong and Style in Southeastern America”
Masques, Mimes and Miracles

Victory of Socrates—Walter Abel

Kyogen Japanese Comic Theater

Smith College Choir and Trinity College Glee Club
Rites of Spring

Chamber Music Concert

Smithsonian Associates

Lisa SuTER, Program Director

OM MEASURE OF THE SUCCESS of a museum is its ability to excite,
delight, and involve its visitors. Through the Smithsonian Associ-
ates, the Institution has been able to transform spectators into partici-
pants and to reach the public in a new and personal way. During the past
year 15,000 members (represented by 6,500 individual and family mem-
berships) have participated regularly. Perhaps their enthusiasm for
Smithsonian activities has been reflected best in their phenomenally high
renewal rate of 89 percent.

The membership program was expanded in depth and breadth. A
wide selection of activities were offered—dozens of lectures, demonstra-
tions, choral, folk and chamber concerts, exhibition previews, films,
drama, field trips, tours, mixed media, and other happenings. The Kite
Carnival, the Zoo Night, and the Potomac Cruise were repeated by
popular request. New Film and Producer, Young Composers, and Cre-
ative Persons series were established. Among many distinguished guests
were Charles Eames, Constantinos Doxiadis, Walter Abel, and Pauline
Trigere, who designed a garment for her spring collection on the stage.
Lecture shows by Donald Brooks, Bill Blass, and Emanuel Ungaro were
presented in cooperation with the Washington Fashion Group.

Highlights of the junior program were the “Pied Piper of Hamelin”
and “Rapunzel” puppet shows by Rod Young; Chekov’s The Marriage
Proposal by the Garrick Players; brass, string, and woodwind concerts
by The Dupont Circle Consortium ; “An Introduction to Modern Dance”
by the Washington Dance Theatre; a “chalk talk” by Robert Baldwin,
creator of “Freddy”; “A Journey to the Planets’ at the Rock Creek
Nature Center, and a sketch-in at the Zoo. Experimental programs for
tiny tots continued. Sea life workshops followed the popular Zoo Morn-
ing Talks on “What is a Reptile? A Bird? A Mammal?” Tickets for
children’s programs were regularly distributed to local orphanages.

More than 6,000 young people and adults were enrolled in Associ-
ates’ seminars, lectures, and workshops, in which 168 courses were of-
fered in 54 subjects, ranging from antiques to zoology. The curriculum
was expanded to include creative arts workshops—drawing, painting,
design, drama, photography, puppet-and-film making. Almost 500

75
76 PUBLIC SERVICE AND INFORMATION

Smithsonian Associates mammals workshop where members learn to prepare
study skins.

scholarships were made available through the kindness of the Ladies
Committee, the National Space Club, and members of the Smithsonian
staff. The techniques of a variety of age-old crafts and their potential
for contemporary use were demonstrated through “Ancient Crafts Re-
vived” workshops on stained glass, bookbinding, raku, mosaic, and batik.

Two special week-end seminars were presented by former members of
the Smithsonian staff—‘“Connoisseurship” by G. Carroll Lindsay of the
New York State Museum and “The Inca State” by John V. Murra of
Cornell University.

The Associates and the Japan-America Society of Washington
brought twelve “national treasures” to this country for a Japanese Drama
Festival, which featured an art exhibition, lectures, films and perform-
ances of Kyogen and Noh drama.

Over 2,300 members attended Luncheon Talks on the Arts, Sciences
and Humanities and Tea Talks on American Arts and Ideas. The pro-
ceeds of these events were used to send Smithsonian speakers to hospi-
tals, orphanages, and old-age homes and to provide senior citizens with
transportation to programs here.

SMITHSONIAN ASSOCIATES TM

Smithsonian curator Paul Desautels lectures on minerals at an Associates
luncheon.

The Associates and the Museum Shops co-sponsored an author’s
reception and eight sales exhibition previews. Members were invited to
the grand opening of the National Collection of Fine Arts as well as a
number of other exhibitions.

A modest travel program, in which 3,500 Associates participated,
was started in fall with Walking Tours of Washington. These were
followed by visits to significant museums, historic houses and private col-
lections in Baltimore, Richmond, Annapolis, Winterthur, Philadelphia,
Charlottesville, New York, and Boston. Guided tours were arranged of
Hillwood, the Lindens, the Anacostia Neighborhood Museum and the
Smithsonian buildings on the Mall. Also included were camping and
field trips—mushroom, rock collecting and fossil hunts, shore strolls,
insect, geology and botany walks, industrial and salvage archeology
expeditions.

The Program Director presented three broadcasts on the Smithsonian
over Voice of America, wrote an article, ““A Museum in Transition,” for
the summer 1967 issue of Museologist, and talked on “The Concept of
78 PUBLIC SERVICE AND INFORMATION

a Living Museum” at the American Association of Museum meetings in
New Orleans. For the latter, she directed and produced a short film on
Associates activities.

~ oe

Smithsonian Museum Shops

Cart Fox, Director

ihe FIRST YEAR Of the reorganized Smithsonian Museum Shop pro-

gram saw the construction of a shop in the Museum of Natural
History at the Constitution Avenue entrance and a book shop at the
Mall entrance, the installation of a temporary display in the first floor
rotunda of the Museum of History and Technology, and the comple-
tion of a book shop and sales exhibition gallery in the National Collec-
tion of Fine Arts. Plans were completed for redesign and construction of
the Arts and Industries building shop and a book shop at the National
Portrait Gallery for early summer and fall of 1968.

In addition to the customary presentation materials selected by the
Director of Museum Shops, sales exhibitions were held in three buildings
and on the Mall. Visitors to the Arts and Industries building saw molas
by the Cuna Indians of San Blas Islands, Panama; 19th-century Japa-
nese prints and drawings, children’s embroideries from Peru, and Eski-
mo prints and sculpture.

79
80 PUBLIC SERVICE AND INFORMATION

_ Opening of the new museum shop in the Arts and Industries building.

During the first annual Folklife Festival on the Mall traditional
American crafts were offered from many parts of the nation.

At the Museum of History and Technology, special exhibitions in-
cluded a Christmas showing of toys of the world, Appalachian crafts,
Track and Road: The American Trotting Horse (publication by Peter
Welsh) , Botanical Prints of Henry Evans, Japanese arts and crafts, and —
publications by Howard Chapelle. |

The first exhibition in the new galleries of the National Collection of
Fine Arts was a collection of posters assembled by Mrs. Albert List.
Belmont Conference Center
Davw B. Cuase, Director

aT HE CONFERENCE CENTER, which is now in its second year of operation,

has been the setting for forty conferences sponsored by thirty priv-
ate organizations and federal commissions and agencies. Requests for
bookings during the more popular months exceeded the capacity of the
center and a number of groups which were late in applying had to be
turned down. With a large number of advance bookings already re-
ceived, it appears likely that the center will be operating at capacity
throughout most of the coming year.

Smithsonian groups which held conferences at Belmont include the
Secretariat and Bureau Heads, the National Armed Forces Museum
Advisory Board, the Smithsonian Council, and the Foreign Currency
Advisory Council. Several groups of Smithsonian Associates visited Bel-
mont on guided tours.

Belmont provides a facility which is unique in the Washington area.
It affords an opportunity for small conference groups to enjoy exclusive
occupancy of a comfortable and well-equipped center. The 340-acre
property provides complete seclusion for the center in an attractive set-
ting of rolling fields and woods. Only forty-five minutes by car from the
center of Washington, Belmont is easily accessible from the city, and its
situation close to Friendship International Airport makes it a convenient
center for people coming from all parts of the country as well as from
abroad.

Improvements to the center continue to be made. Additional air
conditioning has been installed, and recording, slide projection, and
duplicating equipment have been acquired. Plans have been completed
for the installation of two new bathrooms and an additional bedroom
in the main house during the coming year and for the renovation of
two smaller houses on the property.

81
|
\

Smithsonian Activities

Special Museum Programs
Special Museum Programs

FRANK A. Tay tor, Director General of Museums

a? YEARS AGO CONGRESS PASSED the National Museum Act. Today,

requests for assistance from museums in the United States and
abroad have increased by more than 300 percent. The Smithsonian now
responds to requests for advice and aid on museum projects and the
training of museum personnel at the rate of more than 1500 a year.
If, to this are added the requests for advice on preparing and conduct-
ing special exhibition programs and for the loan of exhibits, the total
approaches 5,000 inquiries a year.

Many requests are from small museums which frequently are the
only cultural activities in their communities. Others are from public
spirited individuals seeking help to start museums to bring intellectual
activities to their towns or inner-city neighborhoods. Many wish to en-
rich the education of their children through learning experiences be-
yond the classroom, or to give their senior citizens opportunities for
intellectual, cultural, and social development through the continuing
education programs which modern museums provide. Community
colleges, for example, have sought advice on loan exhibits, on college
museums, and on the content of museum technical courses, as well as
on museum-based programs of service to their community.

By far the greatest rate of increase has been in requests from estab-
lished museums, including some of the largest in the United States and
abroad. They seek advice on new programs as well as consultation on
cooperative solutions of continuing problems of administration, con-
servation, and collections management. These requests have been stimu-
lated in part by the Museum Act, but they are much more the result of
the favorable notice of the Smithsonian’s successful experience in de-
veloping new museum opportunities. The Institution’s pioneer experi-
ence with the Neighborhood Museum, its folklife programs of research
and festivals, its traveling exhibition program, its leadership in studies
of computerized cataloging and collections management, its Associates
programs, including curator-conducted instruction for adults and chil-
dren, its experiments with exhibits incorporating combinations of media
appealing to all the senses, its programs of higher education and of
cooperation with the schools, and its developing competence in the

85
86 SPECIAL MUSEUM PROGRAMS

preservation of art and museum objects, have attracted many requests
for detailed advice, for the training of museum personnel, and for co-
operative studies of opportunities and problems.

Universities have sought advice on the reorganization of their mu-
seums but even more basically on the experience of research museums
in bringing students and scholars together with the reference materials
required for their studies. They also are interested in the use of exhibi-
tions to stimulate and demonstrate interdepartmental involvement with
questions of national concern which call for university-wide attention.
On the other hand, the large independent research museums which are
affiliated with universities supplying teachers, facilities, essential collec-
tions, thesis supervision, and examination of candidates for advanced
degrees, consult on how to convince foundations and granting agencies
that, as institutions of higher education, they are equally entitled to
direct financial support.

Smithsonian directors, curators, exhibits designers, conservators, edu-
cation specialists, counsel, and administrative officers have responded
to requests from practically every state and from more than a score of
foreign countries. They have traveled to Georgia, California, New York,
Michigan, Washington, West Virgina, Vermont, Texas, Kentucky, New
Jersey, Virginia, Ohio, and many other states to consult with museum
directors on their plans for museum development. Their advice has
been sought by international organizations such as UNESCO and the
International Council of Museums, and by governments or govern-
ment institutions of such countries as Canada, the Republic of Korea,
Thailand, the Republic of the Philippines, Okinawa, several African
nations, Israel, Tunisia, and Ceylon. The subjects of the requests in-
clude advice and guidance on administering complexes of national
museums, on planning the initial installations of large new museums,
and for assistance in circulating significant collections of national
treasures. |

The needs of the museums for the services represented in these re-
quests were recently reaffirmed by the conferees assembled to provide
answers to the letter of 20 June 1967 addressed by President Johnson
to Secretary Ripley as Chairman of the Federal Council on the Arts and
Humanities (see 1967 Annual Report, pages 14-15). Of the needs
identified by the museum directors and public conferees meeting for this
purpose, all have been addressed at times to the Smithsonian. The
study of all these needs and their solutions, as well as the financial
support of training and conservation services, are embraced in the con-
cept of the National Museum Act. The conferees urged that the Act
be extended and substantially funded.
OFFICE OF EXHIBITS 87

OFFICE OF EXHIBITS

The Office of Exhibits—under the direction of chief of exhibits John
E. Anglim and assistant chief Benjamin W. Lawless—developed new
and diverse techniques in 1968 to present both the continuing and the
dynamic new programs of the Smithsonian Institution.

In addition to acquitting its public-information and educational
responsibilities to design, produce, and install permanent and special
exhibitions, the Office responded to the needs of the Institution’s grow-
ing scholarly programs by creating many-faceted exhibits supplements—
notably in the audiovisual, motion-picture, and special-devices realms.
For the most part, these new activities have been staffed from existing
organizational units: Eugene F. Behlen has directed the audiovisual
program; Karen Loveland, motion-picture production; Rolland O.
Hower and James C. Nyce, special-devices research and development;
and Carroll B. Lusk, lighting and special effects.

The Office completed 73 new units in 8 permanent exhibition halls
and produced 42 special exhibitions, ranging from single-case presenta-
tions of specialized material to entire galleries. Among the special
exhibitions that had international impact were “Peruvian Silver,”
“Colonial Art from Ecuador,’ “The Art of Organic Forms,’ and
“Photography and the City: The Evolution of an Art and a Science.”
The latter—an extraordinary documentary on the development of the
camera and its effects on society (especially urban life) —was designed
by Charles Eames at the request of Vice President Hubert H. Humphrey
and was produced jointly by the Eames staff and the exhibits staffs of
the Museum of History and Technology and the Museum of Natural
History. The great wealth of visual material in this exhibit, opened in
May 1968, was appropriate to the facilities of the revitalized Arts and
Industries building, which last year became the Institution’s exposition
hall for exhibits not specifically related either to natural history or to
history and technology.

For the Traveling Exhibition Service the Office designed several
traveling exhibits and edited and provided printed labels for 24
Others. The Exhibits staffs also prepared exhibits requested by the
Offices of Education and Training, of International Activities, and of
Public Information, the Smithsonian Associates, Museum Shops, and
the Smithsonian Institution Press. With industry, the Office of Exhibits
also worked cooperatively, as for example, the special computer ex-
hibit done jointly with International Business Machines Corporation.

In the many special operations within the Office—including the
horticultural section, the conservation laboratories, the freeze-dry labo-
ratory, the plastics shops, the model shops, and the silk-screen facili-
b

(wom \

a
i

’

“Photography and the City: The Evolution of an Art and a Science,’
exhibit designed by Charles Eames, opened in the Arts and Industries building
on 6 June. It depicts the development of the camera and its effects on society.

a major —

al
URBAN STRL RE
—— fs!

A focal point of the photography and the city exhibit was the 30-foot balloon in
the rotunda of the Arts and Industries building, demonstrating how the first aerial
photograph in the United States was taken. Nearby, the photograph of Boston,
which was the first, is being rigged into position. Below, left: Charles Eames
organizes photographic materials during the preparation stage; right, exhibits
specialists Joan Nicholson and Frank Caldwell working with one of Charles
Eames’ designers.

ties—scores of persons were trained in techniques that could be adapted
to their local needs. Many of these students were museum professionals.
Among the foreign countries from which trainees came were Australia,
Ceylon, Denmark, Ghana, Nepal, and Nigeria. The Office also worked
extensively with disadvantaged young adults to help orient them to the
business and professional worlds, and is continuing this program on

an even broader scale.

Among the non-Smithsonian museums assisted by the Office of Ex-
hibits last year was the Children’s Museum and Planetarium of Charles-
town, West Virginia, where a workshop seminar was conducted by
designer Mrs. Deborah Bretzfelder, special projects supervisor Eugene
F. Behlen, and exhibits specialist Frank Y. Caldwell.

315-997 O-69-7
90 SPECIAL MUSEUM PROGRAMS

Assistance was also given to the orientation courses conducted by
the Department of State for overseas exhibits coordinators, and to the
design and installation of a foreign crafts fair at the Department of
Commerce. ;

The exhibits editor’s office, under its new chief, Mrs. Constance
Minkin, in addition to its primary functions of editing exhibits labels
and overseeing their typography and printing, participated in such
exhibits-related activities as preparing the scripts for the audiovisual
program, and prepared or assisted with such items for the visiting
public as five exhibition brochures, a guide map to the Museum of Natu-
ral History, and a comprehensive Smithsonian-wide exhibits direc-
tory—all published last year—and completing the manuscript for a
guidebook to the hall of philately. Also, work was begun on a guide-
book for the Museum of Natural History. Of the 7,614 labels edited,
5,880 were printed for 90 exhibitions in 24 permanent and 66 tempo-
rary halls. ‘The remainder awaits printing.

To other Smithsonian museums—the National Collection of Fine
Arts, the National Portrait Gallery, the National Armed Forces Museum
Advisory Board, the National Air and Space Museum, the John F.
Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts—the Office contributed
services ranging from consultation and advice to actual production
assistance, as for the National Collection of Fine Arts, which opened in
May its new galleries in the renovated Old Patent Office building.

The year’s most significant and gratifying challenge was perhaps the
development of the Anacostia Neighborhood Museum in Southeast
Washington. Opening in September 1967, this very special museum
was the outgrowth of Secretary Ripley’s statement to museum direc-
tors, “We ought to try taking museums to the people.” The Office
of Education and Training, the curatorial staffs, and the Office of
Exhibits joined with neighborhood leaders to provide appealing, learn-
ing exhibits to members of the Anacostia community, many of whom
rarely participated in Smithsonian activities in downtown Washing-
ton. Designer James Gerald Shelton, created eight stimulating science
and history exhibits calculated to appeal to the young residents of
Anacostia.

Since the opening of the museum, many modifications have oc-
curred both in methods of presentation and in the subject material
exhibited, as both the community and the Exhibits Office learn how
best to communicate exciting ideas and concepts in science and
history. The Exhibits Office quickly discovered that what appealed
to a typical museum visitor did not necessarily strike a responsive
note in Anacostia and adjusted its approach to the requirements

OFFICE OF EXHIBITS 91

of the neighborhood community. Included in the change of emphasis
were a more personal participation and classes in such subjects as clay-
modeling, painting, and casting. A pottery wheel was installed and
instruction given in the field of ceramics. Plans are well along to
instruct adults and children in gem stone cutting. The equipment for
this operation has been already acquired, and classes will soon be
started.

While these activities may not be considered standard museum
approaches, they were initiated in response to the expressed desires
of the community. Exhibits on art, history, and African culture con-
tinue the more typical aspects of a museum, and in the planning
stage is a large and ambitious exhibit on Negro history in the United
States.

The experiences in Anacostia may well serve as guideposts for
other neighborhood museums to follow.

History and Technology Laboratory

The exhibits staff assigned to the Museum of History and Technology,
under the direction of Benjamin W. Lawless, continued its work in
the permanent-exhibition program, but diverted most of its manpower
and resources in 1968 to a series of special exhibition and exhibits-
related activities dealing with science, history, and technology.
Special exhibits rarely require more than four weeks to prepare and
rarely last more than six weeks. These aspects—plus the fact that the
exhibits can be mounted at relatively low cost per square foot of in-
stalled space—make special exhibits ideal experimental vehicles. They
can return far more than their original investments in evaluating the
teaching effectiveness of various types of presentations and in further
understanding the special relationships of exhibit specimen, curator,
designer, and museum public. Significant special exhibitions were
“Three Centuries of Peruvian Silver” and “Copp Textiles,” both de-
signed by Robert B. Widder, coordinator of special exhibits. Prior to the
former, little of the superb viceregal silverwork had been seen outside
Peru. The work reflected Spanish hammering, etching, and chasing
techniques, employed in traditional European forms but transmuted
by native craftsmen into distinctively Peruvian designs. Religious, do-
mestic, and equestrian pieces were displayed in settings suggesting the
ornate cathedrals and the dark, cool interiors of well-to-do Peruvian
homes. The Copp textiles, a vast collection of colonial and early 19th-
century household furnishings retained by several generations of the
Copp family of Stonington, Connecticut, ranged from furniture to
92 SPECIAL MUSEUM PROGRAMS

kitchen utensils. In settings reminiscent of colonial Connecticut white
clapboard houses, the bedding, table linens, and handsome needlework
were displayed. Among the magnificent fabrics in the exhibition was
an indigo-dyed cotton coverlet, quilted in the traditional pineapple
pattern. |

Introductory exhibits were installed in the hall of musical instruments |
and in the nuclear energy area. Designed by the new chief designer
Richard Virgo the musical instruments exhibition (open for special
concerts and meetings) featured primarily 17th- and 18th-century in-
struments. An ancillary, but striking, feature was the use of stereophonic
lounge chairs in which visitors could hear music recorded from the:

instruments on exhibit. |

Alfred McAdams, also new to the design staff, developed several.
exhibit units that will ultimately become part of the permanent hall
of nuclear energy.

Permanent exhibition halls in progress have continued to reflect ex-
perience gained from the special exhibits program. Six permanent halls:
were designed and—under the guidance of design-office manager and
construction contracts were ready to:

contracts supervisor John Brown

be let for two of them.
Production facilities are under the direction of William M. Clark,

assisted by Stanley M. Santoroski; Robert L. Klinger supervises the

model shop.
SPECIAL EXHIBITS

Exhibit Location Designer
Copp Textiles Museum of History Robert Widder
Peruvian Silver and Technology Robert Widder
Masques, Mimes and Miracles 2 Eugene Behlen
Mexican Prints " Kenneth Young
Enrico Fermi . Alfred McAdams
Computers 22 Nadya Kayaloff

Chicago Architecture
Political Cartoons
Tractor Jubilee
Presidential Pastimes
Father Point’s Paintings
Excellence in Engineering
Scan-O-Groves

Comic Art

Bye Watercolors

Danish Glass

Celestial Globe

Robert Widder
Kenneth Young
John Clendening
Barbara Fellows
Robert Widder
Benjamin Lawless
James Shelton
John Clendening
Kenneth Young
Kenneth Young
Nadya Kayaloff
Exhibit

Honeywell-Emmett Computer

Musical Instruments

Israel Philately

Historic Sewing Machines

American Medallic Art

Explorer’s New Zealand

N.C.F.A. Opening

“Golden Spike” Railroad
Exhibit

Resolute Desk

Recent Acquisitions, I

Italian-American Show

Baltimore Dental Collection

Folk Art (Cafeteria)

Halem Ceramics

Organ Making

Appalachian Poverty

Recent Acquisitions, II

German Posters

Photos of Iran

Erie Canal

Metal: Germany

NAFMAB Art

Children’s Art

Photography and the City

Paintings by Tuculescu
(Romanian)

Rhode Island Recreation

Finnish Graphics

Hirshhorn Museum Model

Brooks-Beason Exhibition

World Craft Fair

PERMANENT EXHIBITS

Hall

Autos and Coaches
Textiles

Electricity, IT
Physics, II
Photography
Musical Instruments
Nuclear Energy
Wood Technology

OFFICE OF EXHIBITS

Location

Museum of History

and Technology

33

Arts and Industries
Building

Smithsonian Building

Old Senate Office
Building

Department of
Commerce

Location

Museum of History

and Technology

Designer

Nadya Kayaloff
Richard Virgo
John Clendening
James Shelton
Steve Makovenyi
Kenneth Young
Robert Widder
Kenneth Young

Nadya Kayaloff
Robert Widder

John Clendening
Benjamin Lawless
Kenneth Young
Barbara Fellows
Benjamin Lawless
Kenneth Young
Steve Makovenyi
Robert Widder and
Kenneth Young
Kenneth Young
Kenneth Young
John Clendening
Barbara Fellows
Charles Eames
Kenneth Young

Barbara Fellows
Kenneth Young
Kenneth Young
William Haase

Benjamin Lawless

IN PROGRESS

Designer

John Clendening
William Haase
Nadja Kayaloff
John Clendening
James Shelton
Richard Virgo
Alfred McAdams
Benjamin Lawless
94. SPECIAL MUSEUM PROGRAMS

Museum of Natural History Laboratory

The Museum of Natural History Exhibits staff, under the direction
of John E. Anglim, assisted by Gilbert A. Wright, completed the cul-
tures of Africa and Asia hall, which was fully opened to the public in
August 1967. Designed by Lucius Lomax, the final section of the hall
included a Lundi life group depicted in an initiation dance; the realistic
foreground was prepared by the models, dioramas, and accessories sec-
tion under the supervision of John Babyak. Another fascinating, inno-
vative feature was a life group in a kitchen setting—complete with
kitchen scents facsimilated by the research and development section—
under Rolland O. Hower’s direction.

In the adjoining peoples of the Pacific and Asia hall, a new life group
of New Guinea was installed. The background was developed by chief
illustrator Christopher Reinecke, and the figures by John Weaver.

A newly acquired spectacular gold chalice was added to the gem hall
(to be shown intermittently, by arrangement with the donor). A new
complex of gem cases was planned by designer Dorothy Guthrie, and
special exhibits were installed for the mammoth Lesotho diamond,
twinned diamond crystals, a 31-carat heart-shaped blue diamond, and
a collection of jade carvings. Nearly half of the exhibits have been com-
pleted for the hall of physical geology, designed by Mrs. Guthrie and
produced and installed under the direction of Frank Nelms, chief of
the production section, and assistant chief Charles W. Mickens.

Work continued in new sections of the cold-blooded vertebrates hall,
designed by James Speight, and on the balcony of the dinosaur hall,
where a large diorama depicting Cretaceous reptile life was completed
by Jay Matternes. A new exhibit on restorations of the skull and soft
parts of prehistoric Zinjanthropus was added to the hall of physical
anthropology. For the future hall of Quaternary vertebrates, designed
by Lucius E. Lomax, Vernon Rickman completed reduced-scale sculp-
tures of two sloths, a mammoth, an American elk, and an American
bison. A life-sized figure for the Cocapa Indian group, in the hall of
American Indians, was also completed.

Peter Farb and designer Joseph Shannon have further developed the
expanded concept of the discovery of natural history hall, which will
be far more comprehensive than the originally planned insect hall,
embracing basic biologic principles underlying the development of life
on earth. Biologic films for the hall were made by Kjell Sandved during
two months at the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute on Barro
Colorado Island.

Among the many dramatic special exhibitions produced by the
Natural History Laboratory staff was ““The Art of Organic Forms,” de-

OFFICE OF EXHIBITS 95

William Roberts employs a
rapid sediment analyzer in his
research in paleobiology. This
instrument for scientific research
was built in the plastics labor-
atory of the Office of Exhibits,
Museum of Natural History.

signed by Lomax; an exhibition on the religious art of Ecuador, de-
signed by Mrs. Guthrie; “Data-Processing in Systematic Zoology,” de-
signed by Speight; and “Artwork by School Children of Brasilia,”
which was prepared for the Anacostia Neighborhood Museum and later
circulated in District of Columbia schools.

Much of the material was completed for the huge endangered species
exhibit, which will open shortly in the foyer. Designed by Speight, the
exhibit was coordinated by Joseph C. Britton, assistant to Richard S.
Cowan, Director of the Museum of Natural History; Britton served for
much of the year as the liaison between the exhibits staff and the cura-
torial and administrative staff.

The varied resources of the plastics laboratory section, supervised by
John Widener, contributed importantly to the exhibits programs. As-
sisting other museums as well as serving the Museum of Natural His-
tory, this laboratory produced faithful replicas of irreplaceable museum
specimens such as meteorites, plant fossils, and rare bones of prehistoric
animals, as well as of intricately carved ivory chess sets; and fabricated
intricate scientific instrumentation; and it made durable casts of sculp-
tured sloths and of human forms (including manikins for the first
ladies’ hall in the Museum of History and Technology), and plaques
of Assyrian bas-reliefs.

SPECIAL EXHIBITS

Exhibit Location Designer
Encyclopaedia Britannica Museum of History and Commercial designer
Technology Stowe Myers, with

assistance from
Lucius Lomax
Early Religious Art of Museum of Natural Dorothy Guthrie
Mexico History
Art of Organic Forms 2 Lucius Lomax
96 SPECIAL MUSEUM PROGRAMS

Exhibit Location Designer
Museum Data Processing Baltimore Civic Center James A. Speight
Using the Freeze-dry University of Maryland Rolland O. Hower
Technique for Museum
Exhibition

Art Work of School Anacostia Neighborhood James A. Speight
Children of Brasilia Museum

Flora and Fauna of Chesapeake Bay Center Morris Pearson
Chesapeake Bay for Field Biology

PERMANENT EXHIBITS

Hall Location Designer
African-Asian Ethnology Museum of Natural Lucius Lomax
(14 exhibits) History
Pacific-Asian Ethnology se Lucius Lomax
Gems (4 exhibits) 2 Dorothy Guthrie
Life in the Sea (1 exhibit) a2 Lucius Lomax
Physical Anthropology 2 Joseph Shannon
(2 exhibits)
North American Indians ? Morris Pearson

(1 exhibit)

TRAVELING EXHIBITION SERVICE

In 1968 the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service com-

pleted its seventeenth year of operation. From a beginning of touring |

exhibitions generally limited to the fine arts, it has gradually enlarged its
scope to include design and crafts, photography, architecture, history,
and science.

Exhibitions circulated by sires are assembled from many sources in
this country and abroad—from museums, institutions public and pri-
vate, and collectors—and each year more of these lending sources
accept SITES as a means of sharing their treasures with a wider public.
At the same time, under the Director General of Museums, sITES is
increasing its ability to aid public museums, community colleges, science
museums, libraries and other educational institutions in developing pro-
grams for using their temporary exhibition space. One result of this has
been that the current catalog lists 19 more exhibitions than were in
last year’s issue.

Notable among those requesting assistance are school systems project
officers conducting educational exhibitions programs funded under
Title III of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965. In
Lock Haven, Pennsylvania, for example, sires provided 13 exhibitions
for periods of one to three months, to be circulated within the Title III
area. These exhibitions, it is estimated, went to 40 schools and were

|

;
t

a
SMITHSONIAN TRAVELING EXHIBITION SERVICE 97

Ps

—
. ,C2ale deine

Two foreign exhibitions shown at the Smithsonian and later circulated by the
Smithsonian Institution traveling exhibition service were, above, “140 Years of
Danish Glass,” and, below, ‘‘Metal: Germany,” with Frank A. Taylor, Director
General of Museums, Dorothy Van Arsdale, Chief of the Smithsonian Travel-
ing Exhibition Service, and German Ambassador Heinrich Knappstein viewing
a metal candelabra.

viewed by 90,000 students. And more and more the State Arts Coun-
cils are taking over the task of circulating exhibitions within their states.

The Council on Leaders and Specialists has referred many foreign
museum specialists to stres for briefings on its operation, and requests
from these people for loans of exhibits prepared from Smithsonian col-
lections represent a potential widening of the services now offered, pro-
vided funds could be obtained for preparing the exhibits. The requests
A special exhibit of the colonial art of Ecuador was opened on 15 April in
the Museum of Natural History by the Smithsonian Institution traveling exhibi-
tion’ service in collaboration with the government of Ecuador. Entrance to the
exhibition hall is shown on left.

predominantly seek science, history, and technological materials, dem-
onstrating that areas of human endeavor and accomplishment other
than fine arts play a major role in cultural exchange programs.

Increasing support from the Department of State and other federal
agencies has been received in the form of consulting services, leader
grants to visiting curators, and general liaison assistance. In return
sITES has reciprocated by exhibiting the Tuculescu paintings from
Romania at the Smithsonian and subsequently in Ohio and California,
as called for in a cultural exchange agreement between Romania and
usiA. Another exhibition, “Tapestries from Yugoslavia,” is now cir-
culating and the next will probably be of naive paintings from Yugo-
slavia, due in winter 1968; this latter is the third under a five-year
proposal.

About a third of sires’ exhibitions are lent by foreign countries.
Among them, “Art Treasures of Turkey,” “Swiss Drawings,” and
“Henry Moore” were returned. “Tunisian Mosaics” continues for
another year, and Ecuador has launched its first United States traveling
exhibition, “Colonial Art from Ecuador.” Other foreign exhibitions
now circulating are “140 Years of Danish Glass,” “Popular Art from
Peru,” and “Metal: Germany.”

Dorothy Van Arsdale and program assistant Frances Smyth, were
official guests of the governments of Switzerland, Romania, and Czecho-
slovakia for discussions of new exhibitions for the United States, and

Colonial art of Ecuador.

Donald McClelland of the National Collection of Fine Arts organized
other exhibitions for stres while traveling in Ceylon and India.

Cooperation with uNIcEF in New York resulted in two exhibitions
there, with a third scheduled for fall 1968, and cooperation with
UNESCO in Paris resulted in one exhibition currently on tour and another
scheduled for fall 1968. The two-year-old ‘Abu Simbel” exhibition will
be updated and continued on tour.

Once again sITEs was honored by the American University Presses;
its catalog Swiss Drawings, produced by Frances Smyth and designed
by Crimilda Pontes, was selected as one of the top 25 publications of
the year. Other catalogs published this year are Finnish Graphics Today,
100 SPECIAL MUSEUM PROGRAMS

Colonial Art from Ecuador, 140 Years of Danish Glass, Graphic Art
from Yugoslavia, and Yugoslavian Tapestries.

An increasing number of sires shows open at Smithsonian Museums.
This year they included “German Posters,” “Finnish Graphics Today,”
“Metal: Germany,’ “Colonial Art from Ecuador,’ “140 Years of
Danish Glass,” and “The Explorer’s New Zealand.” Installation of all
these shows was by the Office of Exhibits, under the direction of John E.
Anglim. “Swiss Drawings” opened at the National Gallery of Art.

Carried over from prior years were 68 exhibitions; 29 were initiated,
and 42 were dispersed. The 1968-1969 catalog, published in May 1968,
lists 116 exhibitions.

Exhibitions Initiated in 1968

Painting and Sculpture

Radius 5; Colonial Art from Ecuador; The American Landscape: A Living
Tradition; Eyewitness to Space, II; Contemporary Art of India and Iran; Isleta
Pueblo Paintings; Swiss Drawings.

Drawings and Prints

Antique Maps; Contemporary American Drawings, III; Cross-section of Con-
temporary Graphics: American, European, and Japanese; Finnish Graphics
Today; Master Prints of the 15th and 16th Centuries: Contemporary Mexican
Prints; Ornamental Pen Drawings.

Architecture

The Grand Design; Ten Italian Architects; The Stencil Ornaments of Louis
Sullivan.

Design and Crafts

Metal: Germany; 140 Years of Danish Glass; Wood Turnings from India;
Kaleidoscope Orissa: Folk Art from India; Popular Art from Peru; Yugo-
slavian Tapestries.

History

The Carvings of Sanchi.

Children’s Art
Paintings by Children of Many Lands, II; Tunisian Children’s Art.

Natural History and Science
Transformation of Space.
Photography

A Photographer Looks at Africa; Australia: The Sunburnt Country; Laos: The
Land and the People.
CONSERVATION-ANALYTIGAL LABORATORY 101

Exhibitions Continued from Prior Years

1966-1967: Islamic Art from the Collection of Edwin Binney 3rd; Henry
Moore; Sources for Tomorrow: 50 Paintings from the Michener Collection; Naive
Art from Haiti; Tunisian Mosaics; Italian Architectural Drawings; Graphic Art
from Yugoslavia; Graphics ’67; Albers: Interaction of Color; Cape Dorset: The
Arts of an Eskimo Community; Empire Profile; Fiber, Fabric and Form; German
Posters; Living with Wood; Victorian Needlework; Color and Light in Painting;
The Explorer’s New Zealand; The People’s Choice; Les Enfants de Paris; Paint-
ings by Children of Many Lands, I; Things and Other Things; Tokyo Children
Look at the Olympic Games; Animal Behavior; Minerals Magnified; Prehistoric
Paintings of France and Spain; Ten in Focus.

1965-1966: Eyewitness to Space; Action-Reaction; Contemporary Dutch
Graphics; Polish Graphic Art; Six Danish Graphic Artists; Art in Urban Archi-
tecture; Early Chicago Architecture; Folk Toys from Japan; Jazz Posters; Posters
from Denmark; Rugs from the McMullan Collection; Early Monuments and
Architecture from Ireland; Danish Children Illustrate Hans Christian Andersen;
Embroideries by Children of Chijnaya; Museum Impressions; The Preservation
of Abu Simbel; New Names in Latin American Art.

1964-1965: Bridges, Tunnels and Waterworks; Eskimo Graphic Art III; Pier
Luigi Nervi; American Costumes; American Furniture; The American Flag;
Colors and Patterns in the Animal Kingdom; The Stonecrop Family: Variations
on a Pattern; The Color of Water.

1963-1964: Alvar Aalto; Contemporary American Landscape Architecture;
Birds of Asia; Hearts and Flowers; Religious Themes by Old Masters, I and II;
Eero Saarinen; Swiss Posters.

1962-1963: Craftsmen of the City; Paintings by Young Africans.

1961-1962: Physics and Painting; uNEsco Watercolor Reproductions; Con-
temporary Italian Drawings; The Face of Viet Nam; Le Corbusier; Robert Capa:
Images of War.

CONSERVATION-ANALYTICAL LABORATORY

The productive activities of the Conservation-Analytical Laboratory
were directed toward both conservation and analysis in proportion to the
manpower available.

Conservation consisted largely of providing information, advice, and
tested materials to various departments engaged in safeguarding their
own collections, together with emergency action in connection with spe-
cial exhibitions.

One minor activity contributing to the welfare of the collections was
surveillance of the relative humidity in various areas of the Museum of
History and Technology by means of 25 continuously recording hygro-
thermographs. Close cooperation with the engineers responsible for air
conditioning resulted in a reasonably stable environment at levels suited
to the various materials.

Materials tested for compatibility with museum objects included
paper, board, adhesives, and plastic foils intended for mounting graphic
102 SPECIAL MUSEUM PROGRAMS

art; paint for the decoration of rooms in which silver objects are stored ;
and insecticide for use in rooms containing metal objects.

Emergency action was taken to deal with wood borers and flying
termites originating from exhibits in special exhibitions.

About 150 objects received various forms of treatment, and analysis
was undertaken on some one hundred objects of wide variety, including
ancient Chinese bronze ceremonial vessels and belt hooks, gold coins,
slag from an archeological dig, and a corrosion product found to be
hindering operation of one of the Museum’s working models.

Most of these analyses were spectrographic, made on ten-milligram
samples, and were semiquantitative in nature, but some of them were
made with greater precision by x-ray fluorescence analysis. Identifica-
tion of minerals that occur in the gesso on easel paintings, in artists’ pig-
ments, and as corrosion products on buried or sunken objects have been
made by x-ray diffraction analysis. Artists’ pigments have also been char-
acterized by infrared absorption spectrophotometry which has served
additionally to identify organic materials such as the adhesives used on
commercial binding tapes suggested for use in mounting, the finish
applied in earlier times to a celestial globe that was recently acquired,
and the varnish found on political campaign buttons in the collection.

Another investigation, still in progress, was of the use of neutron-
activation analysis for the characterization of sources of English and
American pottery from the colonial period found here. A technique for
the elemental analysis of small samples—less than 100 micrograms in
weight—by use of the electron microprobe is being refined in conjunction
with the division of meteorites. This method, applied to ink, may prove
to be useful in investigations involving the attribution of old documents.

Aside from directly productive activity, the Laboratory was engaged
in reorganization of its procedures and in filling minor gaps in equip-
ment with a view to increasing its effectiveness in handling the many
and varied tasks presented from six museums, each having different types
of collections. As subsidiary gains, this reorganization is expected to
facilitate access by other members of the Smithsonian staff to technical
literature on conservation available in the laboratory and to the testing
equipment that has been acquired for the purpose of monitoring and
facilitating conservation treatments carried out in other laboratories in
the Smithsonian museum complex.

OFFICE OF THE REGISTRAR 103

OFFICE OF THE REGISTRAR

The energetic pursuits of the many branches and organizations under
the Smithsonian have had their impact on the Office of the Registrar
this year. Mail volume increased about forty percent over 1967, offering
concrete evidence of increased staff activity and the heightened public
awareness of the Institution and its varied programs. In the words of one
correspondent, they are “unavoidably interested in . . . , send me ANY
information.”

Eight clerks handled more than 1,492,000 pieces of mail. Daily,
approximately 800 deliveries are made in the four buildings on the
Mall, and two truck deliveries service the seven buildings in other parts
of the city.

A branch mail-shipping office was set up this year to service the newly
opened Fine Arts-Portrait Gallery building and was amply justified by
the timely service provided in receiving and shipping large exhibits in
connection with the establishment and opening of the building. Total
shipping activity, is shown below:

Pieces Pounds
Freight (surface and air) 15, 366 1, 740, 705
Express (surface and air) 1, 724 89, 829
Parcel Post (surface and air) 1, 184 10, 358

The nations of the Middle East and Africa, particularly North and
East Africa, drew an increasing number of travelers. For all countries
they totaled 297 and required the processing of 745 passports and other
documents.

An important role played by the Office of the Registrar primarily for
the benefit of the scientific and professional staff of the Museums of
Natural History and of History and Technology is the recording of
accessions to the collections and maintaining and searching the central
files. The statistical tables showing the totals and distribution of speci-
mens are given on pages 149 and 392-393.
te)

Smithsonian Activities

History and Art

315-997 O-69-8
\
American Studies Program

THE AMERICAN STUDIES PROGRAM of the Department of American
Studies was carried on in cooperation with universities in the local area.
For the third consecutive year an orientation seminar was given in the
spring semester, this time organized around the theme of life in the
period of the American Revolution. It was taught by staff members
of various Smithsonian museums, with nine graduate students from
George Washington University and four from the University of Mary-
land participating. In addition, two graduate students from George
Washington University and three from the University of Maryland took
individual reading courses with staff members of the Museum of History
and Technology and the Museum of Natural History. Portions of com-
prehensive examinations were written and graded for three graduate
students, and doctoral dissertation direction was carried out for two
students.

The chairman prepared a paper on “Speech Communication and
Politics” for an Interdisciplinary Colloquium on Speech Communica-
tion, in 10-12 October 1967, sponsored by the Speech Association of
America and the United States Office of Education in cooperation with
the Johnson Foundation. He participated in a conference at Austin,
Texas, sponsored by the American Association of University Presses
and the National Endowment for the Humanities, to identify areas in
the history of exploration and discovery in need of support for research
and publication. He also participated in meetings: the Commandant’s
Advisory Committee on Marine Corps History 22-27 July 1967; the
Society for Historical Archaeology; the Organization of American His-
torians; and the International Commission for the History of Parlia-
mentary and Representative Institutions.

Continuing his research in various areas of American history, he saw
published during the year the following:

WASHBURN, Witcoms E. “The Smithsonian’s Graduate Program in American
Civilization.” Smithsonian Journal of History, vol. 2, No. 2 (Summer
1967), pp. 64-67.

“Indian Removal Policy: Administrative, Historical and Moral Cri-

teria for Judging its Success or Failure.” Ethnohistory, vol. 12, No. 3

(Summer 1965), pp. 274-278. [This issue of Ethnohistory did not appear

in published form until 1967. ]

“Joseph Henry’s Conception of the Purpose of the Smithsonian Insti-

tion.” Pages 106-166 in A Cabinet of Curiosities: Five Episodes in the

Evolution of American Museums. Charlottesville: The University Press

of Virginia, 1967.

107
eng Fin gener
* oo
Cia

‘ e Cay

The Amoskeag millyard, Manchester, New Hampshire. Aerial view made from
a helicopter loaned by the state National Guard. Such views are of far greater
value than conventional aerial photos which of necessity must be taken from
much higher altitudes. Here, the relationship between the various mill buildings,
the river, the power canal, and the corporation housing, is made clear in a way
that would be possible by no other means. The Amoskeag complex expanded
steadily from 1838 until construction of the last major mill in 1915.
Museum of History and ‘Technology

Rosert P. MuituHaur, Director

uN PRACTICALLY EVERY SUBJECT FIELD embraced by the Mu-

seum of History and Technology, beyond those of object and
manuscript-material collection which conventionally occupy the profes-
sional staff, there are vast areas that could lend themselves to exploration
by the curator. The most pressing of these, in terms of rapidly disappear-
ing historical evidence is the area of physical remains. While of less im-
portance and incidence in areas where the end objects themselves are
small and easily collectible—coins, stamps, the artifacts of domestic and
craft culture—most engineering and technological objects generated by
man’s ingenuity and construction are large, uncollectible, and with few
exceptions, not susceptible to a formalized preservation process except on
their own foundations. Thus, it becomes the technological historian’s
obligation to devote as much energy to the direct study of the material
remains of original structures in the field—the primary documents—as to
the analysis of that development on the basis of essentially secondary,
paper documents, for each provides understanding of the other. Acutely
aware of this, historians in the Museum of History and Technology have
turned their attention to industrial archeology.

INDUSTRIAL ARCHEOLOGY AT THE SMITHSONIAN

Because of its traditional orientation toward historical interpretation
based almost wholly upon objects and documents that could conven-
iently be gathered within its walls, the Smithsonian’s Museum of His-
tory and Technology has been relatively late in embracing the field of

industrial archeology—the on-site investigation of physical remains of

109
110 MUSEUM OF HISTORY AND TECHNOLOGY

C. P. Bradway Machine Works, West —
Stafford, Connecticut, employed a_
group of standard machine tools, some
built or drastically modified on the
premises and none made after 1900, to —
manufacture water turbines. Except
for the lighting fixture and chain —
hoists, the scene is typical of any one
of a dozen small late 19th-century —
shops in the industry. The works, now
moribund, will probably be razed
shortly.

factory-based manufacturing, processing, and extractive industries, the
works of civil engineering, and the less-mobile structures of the mechani-
cal engineer such as stationary power-producing machinery, canal locks,
and the like, but excluding those objects and areas conventionally treated
in and by museums. The industrial archeologist, because of the relative
immobility of the structures in his domain and the fact that a few paper
records have survived, is primarily a field investigator.

Interest in industrial archeology has existed in this country for about
thirty years, primarily among a small group of dedicated buffs and on —
an organized level in the National Park Service. As a result of their
efforts such significant industrial sites have been acquired and restored
as the 18th—19th-century ironworking complex at Hopewell, Pennsyl-
vania; more recently the Edison Laboratories in East Orange, New
Jersey; and the right-of-way and remaining structures of the famed
Allegheny Portage Railway.

In this field the Smithsonian Institution, because of its organizational
structure, for the present can best concentrate on the recording aspects of
industrial archeology. This is an important contribution, however, be-
cause only a small portion of the finest and most important of industrial
monuments stand a chance of being preserved. Unlike residential build-
ings, where adaptive use is feasible, it is only the rare industrial struc-
ture—bridge, canal, or mill building—that can easily be adapted for a
purpose other than that for which it was originally intended, and if
it occupies a valuable site or is large and expensive to maintain, which

INTRODUCTION 111

it usually is, demolition is almost certain once it has become uneconomic.
Thus, while a detailed graphic record may be a poor substitute for the
object, it is better than no record at all.

Formal recording of industrial structures in the United States began
in the Great Depression when the wea established the Historic Ameri-
can Buildings Survey, under which unemployed architects were hired to
make accurate measured drawings and photographs of a large group of
significant buildings. Although established as a purely architectural
project, HABS also recorded a number of bridges, small mills, and fac-
tories. Today it continues this work under the National Park Service,
with an increasing attempt to document industrial remains.

About three years ago the Smithsonian’s division of mechanical and

civil engineering, aware that the rate of abandonment and demolition
was increasing as a result of obsolescence, urban sprawl, highway con-
struction, and other disruptive economical and physical factors, under-
took a series of recording surveys to increase the breadth of this direct
documentation of American industrial survivals. In the first survey, in
July 1965, the C. P. Bradway Machine Works was thoroughly recorded.
This small Connecticut factory had just ceased the manufacture of
water turbines. Its buildings, production machinery, and—most im-
portantly—its manufacturing methods were an unusual survival of a
typical late-19th-century machine manufactory, for since its founding in
1889, few of its major physical or operational elements had been
drastically altered. The three-man party that surveyed it in one week
made complete measurements of the building and its contents. With a
tape recorder and 35-mm. camera, they produced a step-by-step account
of the entire turbine-manufacturing sequence as recounted by Mr.
Bradway, the elderly owner and son of the firm’s founder. It was
virtually a craft process, and most of the dimensional and manufacturing
information existed nowhere but in Mr. Bradway’s memory, an ex-
tremely common method of record keeping in the early days of the
turbine and other light, limited-production machine industries.

Summer 1966 saw a similar survey made of Dudley Shuttles, Inc.,
a small shop in Wilkinsonville, Massachusetts, which still manufactures
wood shuttles for power looms. In 1900 this was an industry of perhaps
thirty manufacturers, but today the bulk of the business is concentrated
in the hands of two or three large firms, with the Dudley firm as the
sole remaining small producer. The firm’s significance lies in the fact
that much of its production machinery was designed and built on the
premises, some as early as 1885, and thus represents an unusual example
of a manufacturer’s own ingenuity being used to meet his requirements

for a group of highly specialized, largely single-function machines.
112 MUSEUM OF HISTORY AND TECHNOLOGY

”

Finished survey drawing of one of the specialized, “homemade,” shuttle-manu-
facturing machines at Dudley Shuttles, Inc. The machine’s function is to round
off the ends of the rough shuttle blanks to permit smooth passage through the
warp threads in the weaving process.

Here, as in the Bradway survey, it should be noted, is exhibited
one of the basic principles for determining priorities in industrial
archeology—the threat of extinction—for the advent of the high-speed,
shuttleless loom, will in several decades make the shuttle largely obsolete.

In the Dudley survey, in which Hass cooperated, the buildings were
fully measured. The greatest part of the work, however, was devoted
to recording the unique production machinery and the manufacturing
process. The Dudley-built machines were measured and fully photo-
graphed and the sequence of production photographed and described,
from the raw persimmon-wood block to the finished shuttle—which 1s
a deceptively simple looking but highly sophisticated device.

During this 1965-1966 period a number of minor surveys were also
conducted by the division. Most of these covered a series of iron bridges
of the era 1850-1875 when the development of shop-built, prefabricated
iron railway and highway bridges was in its infancy. Of the thousands
of those spans that once existed, very few remain, and, with one or two
exceptions, these are in anything but secure positions.

These beginning efforts culminated, in summer 1967, in the New Eng-
land Textile Mill Survey, organized by the division of mechanical and
INTRODUCTION 113

The Crown Mill, North Uxbridge,
Massachusetts. A strikingly handsome
building, built in 1823 during a period
of enormous growth of the cotton tex-
tile industry in New England, it is
diminutive in comparison to the huge
brick mills in the urban textile centers
like Lowell and Manchester. The
Crown is typical of the hundreds built
along the region’s lesser rivers and
‘streams, and is one of very few which
have survived unaltered. The site is
shared with a twin mill, the Eagle,
built in 1827. As their fate at the
moment is in doubt, the urgency of
their recording by the New England
Textile Mill Survey is clear.

civil engineering and co-sponsored by Hass and the Merrimack Valley
Textile Museum of North Andover, Massachusetts. Goal of the survey
was to produce a full-scale graphic record of a selected group of early
textile-mill buildings in New England, the cradle of the industry in
America.

As the first industry in this country to be systematically organized on
the factory system—with all operations from raw material to finished
roduct carried out under one roof—it seemed to be the logical starting
point for a series of “industry” surveys, for while the machinery and
operational aspects of the industry have been analyzed and the artifacts
preserved, little has been done to determine how the physical plant that
housed the machinery evolved from its late-18th-century beginnings to
about 1900, by which time mill design had become practically
standardized.
The survey team consisted of five architectural students, from univer-
sities around the country and as far away as Hawaii, who both measured
114 MUSEUM OF HISTORY AND TECHNOLOGY

wr ORIGINALLY SLATE

——— SHEET METAL ——
= SS Ss
= aos o <— W :
— 3-414°X 4s
————— WOOD COLUMNS

| =
|

|

ar eae a ——% eo | ™ Ti

™——— CAST IRON CAPS

| 7 CAST IRON PINTLE =| =
\/

— 2/2" PLANKING WI = =
%' WOOD WEARING =| == =

| SURFACE & = =
| WOOD BEADED =} =
CEILING =

SA GRANITE BLOCK ~. SPLIT GRANITE
MS &

(FORMER) MAIN — BRICK CENTER » B

SHAFT PIERS COLUMNS
>
— ¢ MAIN SHAFT

48 SECTION ELEVATION

Sectional drawing through one of the Lawrence mills covered by the 1967 New
England Textile Mill Survey project. The Pemberton, built in 1860-61 as a
cotton mill, remains in use today as a plumbing supply warehouse, and has a
fairly high probability of long life. A change in the economics of either the
industry or the particular firm, however, could result in the building’s obso-
lescence and demolition overnight.

the buildings and produced the finished drawings. One of the students
also acted as photographer. Much of summer 1967 was devoted to
recording a number of mills in the Manchester, New Hampshire, com-
plex of the former Amoskeag Manufacturing Company, once the larg-
est textile producer in the United States on a single site. Most of the
Amoskeag buildings remain as they were at the time the company was
liquidated in 1936, and are now occupied by a wide variety of other
industries. The Amoskeag site, the earliest buildings of which date from
1838, is important as the only one of the half-dozen major New England

INTRODUCTION 115

textile centers that remains largely intact. Others such as that at Lowell
have been ravaged by urban renewal and highway projects which
destroyed much of their value as total records, and even the Amoskeag
complex is now threatened by an urban-renewal scheme—the main
reason for beginning the survey there.

A group of large mills at Lawrence, Massachusetts, was similarly
recorded, as were two small rural mills in Rhode Island and southeastern
Massachusetts—a type fully as important in the development of the
textile industry as the great mills clustered in the major centers. The
50 drawings and approximately 500 photographs produced by the 1967
survey have been permanently deposited in the Hazs collections in the
Library of Congress, where they are available for study and use.

In summer 1968 the survey is being continued among a group of
mills remaining in the once-important textile cities of Fall River, Massa-
chusetts, and Woonsocket, Rhode Island. These will be treated as
individual structures rather than as parts of a unit complex, as was
done at Manchester. In addition, it is planned to record as completely
as possible the entire small mill village of Harrisville, New Hampshire, a
remarkable survival of the company town, that peculiar American
industrial-economic-social phenomenon which characterized a large
segment of the textile industry in New England throughout most of its
active history. Few remain as cohesive units, but in Harrisville, the
woolen mill is still in operation, with most of the village dependent upon
it. As in the previous summer’s work, use will be made of such tech-
niques as low-level aerial photography from a helicopter for recording
interrelationships between buildings and site elements, and of aerial
photography from higher flying planes where building details are
inaccessible or complex.

With this documentation of the textile industry in hand it will be
possible to achieve an overall view of a single class of structure which,
regardless of the geographical location or time of construction, was
designed to meet a specialized requirement, and by this means to ob-
serve changes in the relationship between the functions served and the
structural solutions to the problems these changes presented.

As we noted, only a few states and private institutions are actively
investigating industrial remains within their own provinces. It is a
source of regret that interest in such activity is not more widespread,
for the present effort is not enough to keep pace with the accelerating
destruction of even the most important industrial monuments.

Some encouragement is to be found in the increasing number of grad-

uate courses in material culture being offered by American universities,
A team of Smithsonian staff members, George Washington University graduate
students, and “friends of the Museum” on a preliminary survey of the remains
of the early 19th-century iron works at Principio Furnace, Maryland, in April
1968. A major survey is planned of 18th-century workings on the site in conjunc-
tion with the Museum’s participation in historical studies connected with the
Bicentennial of the American Revolution.

particularly in the Middle Atlantic States. In at least three universi-
ties—George Washington, Delaware, and Pennsylvania—these courses
strongly emphasize fieldwork that can and often does include work in
industrial archeology.

The Smithsonian, by means of its interdisciplinary-cooperative pro-
gram with George Washington University, has been able to influence
in this direction, a small but avid group of students who, over the past
year or so, have taken part in several of our formal surveys and have
conducted several of their own under Museum staff guidance, making
it possible to record a number of sites and structures in the Washing-
ton area which otherwise could have been lost. It is in such methods
that the greatest hope lies for interesting, encouraging, and training the
coming generation of historians to have a proper perspective of the work-
ing relationship that should exist between the physical and paper docu-
mentation of American technology.

Rosert M. VoceEL, Curator

Division of Mechanical and Civil Engineering
8

Research and Publications

OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR

Robert P. Multhauf spent a part of the past year on sabbatical leave at
Heidelberg where he continued his research on the history of the con-
cept of specific gravity and on the development of industrial chemistry
from 1750 to 1850.

A book-length history of early American navigational instruments, en-
titled The Sign of the Quadrant, by Silvio A. Bedini, was completed for
the press. This is the first of a three-volume study in preparation on early
American mathematical practitioners. During the past year several of
his papers on scientific instruments and experiments with the measure-

ment of time have appeared in American and Italian publications.

The research efforts of the section of mathematics this year were
concentrated on the development of the modern computer. With the sup-
port of the American Federation of Information Processing Societies, the
section, under Uta C. Merzbach’s direction, intensified its efforts in
this field, embarking on a long-range study with special emphasis
on the period 1935 to 1955. This year’s activities centered about the de-
velopment of relay computers and mechanical differential analyzers.

Supplementing its overall research efforts in the history of mathe-
matical instruments, the section greatly expanded its bibliographical ref-

_ erence file on mathematical instruments. A chronological file covering

the period from 1890 to 1945 is now available to scholars.

SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY

Jon Eklund joined the staff as assistant curator of chemistry and Audrey
Davis as assistant curator of medicine. Eklund is working on early 19th-
century experimental techniques; Mrs. Davis is studying the develop-
ment of medical chemistry in the 17th century. Deborah Warner was
appointed assistant curator of astronomy and meteorology and is con-
tinuing her research on late-19th-century astrophysics. Assistant curator
Sandra Herbert worked on new methods of presenting the history of
science in exhibits.

The department’s activities in graduate training this year reached a
point at which the need for a somewhat more organized program be-
came apparent. Hopefully this can be arranged without losing the in-

117
118 MUSEUM OF HISTORY AND TECHNOLOGY

formality of curator-student relations in a matrix of course credits and
organized seminars. In addition to having curators act as the principal
academic advisers for graduate projects, the department sponsored a
one-day Atlantic Coast conference, primarily for graduate students, orga-
nized by Bernard Finn; it was well received and will be repeated next
year. The division of medical sciences will be host next year for the well-
established mid-Atlantic seminar on the history of medicine. The Amer-
ican Academy of the History of Dentistry met here in October.

Our program of visiting professors at the University of Pennsylvania
continues ; Bernard Finn was in residence in Philadelphia during the fall
semester, and Edwin Battison during the spring. Melvin Jackson and
Sami Hamarneh will go to Pennsylvania next year. Several members
of the staff participated in the teaching program in American Studies.

Both the history of theoretical science and the history of technology
have aroused student interest, the former more especially with Univer-
sity of Pennsylvania students and the latter in the industrial archeologi-
cal_projects directed here by Robert Vogel. Any coordinated program
will have to face the problem of whether these very different subjects
can be put together meaningfully for students, or if indeed they should
be.

A beginning, at least to the point of bringing the history of theory
and experiment together, has been made in the division of electricity.
Finn continued his experiments on the actual performance of historic
telephone and radio equipment. John Miller spent the year as a pre-
doctoral fellow studying the work of Henry Rowland, including tests
on the Rowland apparatus here. This is a very distinct way, albeit a
methodologically difficult one, in which Museum collections can offer
areas of historical research which are not available to most university
scholars. Several other curators are discussing similar possibilities in their
subjects.

In the growing area of industrial archeology, several field projects
were conducted or sponsored by the division of engineering. Vogel spent
the summer of 1967 directing an architectural survey of a representative
group of early New England textile mills, preparing graphic records
which will survive the now rapid demolition of such buildings. Re-
cording the material remains of a particular industry rather than those
of a specific area is a relatively new practice in the United States. The
survey was jointly sponsored and funded by the Smithsonian through its
Research Foundation, by the Historic American Buildings Survey of the
National Park Service, and by the Merrimack Valley Textile Museum
of North Andover, Massachusetts. The survey will continue in the
summer of 1968.

RESEARCH AND PUBLICATIONS—-ARTS AND MANUFACTURES 119

In winter the cutting building of an early quarry at Seneca, Mary-
land, was measured and documented by a group of students; the results
have been deposited in the HABs archives at the Library of Congress.
A student recorded a fine grist mill in the area. Several staff members
made a preliminary survey of the Principio Furnace site in Cecil County,
Maryland, preparatory to more extensive work. Vogel chaired sessions
on industrial archeology at meetings of the Society of the History of
Technology and the Society for Historical Archaeology; and in October
he was appointed by Governor Spiro Agnew of Maryland to the Gov-
ernor’s Consulting Committee on Historic Landmarks. He is a con-
sultant to American Heritage for their Smithsonian Series book on
American bridges, canals, and tunnels.

An impressive scholarly publication is John White’s American Loco-
motives, An Engineering History 1830-1880, being published by the
Johns Hopkins Press. This large, handsome book (528 pages and 240
illustrations) is the climax of ten years of research by White and is
the most comprehensive work on the subject yet published. Articles by
Finn and Cannon in the Smithsonian Journal of History illustrate the
breadth of our research interests in the history of the physical sciences.

Sami Hamarneh returned from a year of sabbatical leave during
which he studied Arabic manuscripts on medicine and pharmacy,
principally in Egypt. His paper delivered at the International Symposium
on the History of Medical Education in Los Angeles offered a significant
reinterpretation of the role of some major Islamic scientists.

The division of transportation has revised its railroad hall leaflet and
produced a new vehicle hall leaflet. A recording of the sounds of the
1401 locomotive, made with the assistance of a grant from the Southern
Railway, is available at the Museum Shops. The descriptive catalog of
the automobile and truck collection was revised and expanded by Don
Berkebile, and will soon be available to the public. Melvin Jackson is

| working with the Office of Exhibits on an educational film, “The

Workings of the Wind Ships.”

ARTS AND MANUFACTURES

| Chairman Philip W. Bishop continued research into the distribution of

economic resources in the United States prior to the Civil War as back-
ground to the development of manufacturing technology. An educational
booklet was prepared to provide visitors to the hall of petroleum with

_ ageneral context for the exhibits.

As a member of the government-industry committee organized by the
Bureau of Mines to celebrate the centennial of the discovery of helium,
120 MUSEUM OF HISTORY AND TECHNOLOGY

Demonstrations in the spinning area were an important part of the “Copp Family
Textiles” exhibit which opened in March.

Bishop developed the design for a commemorative exhibit and or-
ganized the collection of material to be sealed into the time columns of
the Amarillo memorial structure.

During the year, the research on “Living Historical Farms,’ conducted
under a grant from Resources for the Future and in cooperation with the
Department of Agriculture and the Department of the Interior, was
completed by the professional research staff of the division of agriculture
and forest products. A technical report, ‘““The Past in Action,’ was
prepared in November and an illustrated report will be published by the
Smithsonian Institution Press in the coming year.

In October a gathering of scholars representing both the biological
sciences and the humanities attended a three-day symposium at the
Smithsonian to exchange information on the topic, “Eighteenth-Century
Agriculture: Science, Technology, Life, Customs, and Politics.” The
symposium was jointly sponsored by the Smithsonian Institution, the

Agricultural History Society, and the Accokeek Foundation. Scientists

and historians from both the United States and Europe delivered papers
dealing with a number of aspects of 18th-century agriculture. The
symposium papers will be published in the coming year as a special issue
of the Agricultural History Journal.

In cooperation with Clyde T. Lowe of the Department of Agriculture,

RESEARCH AND PUBLICATIONS—-ARTS AND MANUFACTURES 121

At the “Copp Family Textiles” exhibit, Mrs. Helene Bress, a local weaver, dem-
onstrates how a blue and white check linen was made. At right, fringes and
the implements used in their making.

the division is attempting to provide working plans of 19th-century
agricultural implements that would be suitable for introduction into the
more primitive agricultural areas of Thailand. This is an informal pilot
project which the division hopes will pave the way for more ambitious
projects in the future.

Research continues on a general history of American agriculture,
1607-1967. In anticipation of the Bicentennial of the American Revolu-
tion, the division is undertaking a major study of American agriculture
during the period 1775-1783 with particular reference to the impact
of the Revolution on American agriculture.

The professional staff of the division of ceramics and glass concen-
trated on several major research programs. Paul V. Gardner, curator,
completed the manuscript for his biography of Frederick Carder,
founder of the Steuben Glass Works. He spent six weeks in Europe
studying ceramic and glass objects in museums and private collections,
checking data on Carder’s early life in England, and making preliminary
arrangements for an exhibition of Carder glass at Pilkington’s Glass
Museum to coincide with the publication of the Carder biography. He
spent a week in mid-December at the University of Wisconsin acting as
advisor to graduate students in glass technology and ceramics.

315-997 O-69-9
122 MUSEUM OF HISTORY AND TECHNOLOGY

Associate curator J. Jefferson Miller II completed his research on
ceramics from the 18th-century site of Fort Michilimackinac, Michigan.

Gardner and Miller continued work on the catalog and research on
objects in the Hans Syz collection of 18th-century European porcelain.
As board members of the Wedgwood International Seminar, both as-
sisted in the 13th Wedgwood International Seminar held at Charlotte,
North Carolina. They also chaired ceramic and glass sessions at Penns-
bury Manor Americana Forum, Morrisville, Pennsylvania.

Elizabeth Harris, who had been a consultant in the division of graphic
arts since 1966, was appointed assistant curator in November and has
continued to work on a catalog of the photomechanical collection. In
collaboration with museum technician James Spears, she has been
studying the construction of old wooden printing presses and preparing
the plans of a working model for a future exhibit.

On his return from a research trip to Lacock Abbey, England, an-
cestral home of William Henry Fox Talbot, curator of photography
Eugene Ostroff began work on an illustrated catalog of the large
Lacock Abbey collection of photographs and other items related to the
work of Fox Talbot. He is also writing a monograph on this scientist
and his photographic and photomechanical inventions. Under a Smith-
sonian Research Foundation grant, two special assistants worked full
time with Ostroff on these extensive projects. He also continued his
studies on the preservation and restoration of photographs, including
the earliest processes, and summarized the care of all types of photo-
graphs in his article “Preservation of Photographs,’ in The Photo-
graphic Journal.

Associate curator of manufactures and heavy industries John N. Hoff-
man continued his research on the history of canal transportation in rela-
tion to the development of the coal industries of Pennsylvania, and the
mechanization of the coal industry.

Associate curator of textiles Rita J. Adrosko continued her research
on shawls and European folk origins of American coverlets with one
month’s official leave in England, Scotland, Belgium, Germany, and
The Netherlands. She also examined important manuscripts on weaving
and dyeing in Pennsylvania collections. Mrs. Grace R. Cooper, curator,
examined numerous spinning wheels in New England collections in
her research on the spinning wheel in America. She also initiated work
on a second volume on the history of sewing machines; this one to
continue the history from 1875 to 1925. Museum specialist Doris M.
Bowman was on one month’s official leave researching the collections
and libraries of New England in her continuing study of lace and
needlework.
RESEARCH AND PUBLICATIONS—CIVIL HISTORY 123

CIVIL HISTORY

This year has been marked by the increasing integration of research,
education, exhibition, and collecting. There has been a broadening,
also, of such recently innovative research techniques as historical arche-
ology and data-retrieval systems. Involvement with graduate-level edu-
cation programs; development of improved methods of communicating
to the public, such as by musical performances, television, radio, or
film; and participation in social-action programs, such as the Anacostia

Neighborhood Museum and activities on the Mall, have exemplified

the Smithsonian’s response to changing contemporary needs.

The advancement in April of Richard H. Howland to the position
of Special Assistant to the Secretary left vacant the position of chairman.
This had been filled on an acting basis by C. Malcolm Watkins, curator
of cultural history.

Watkins returned from a sabbatical leave, during which he studied
American folk pottery under a grant from the Smithsonian Research
Foundation. In a collaborative project related to these studies, Mrs.
Jacqueline Olin, research chemist in the conservation analytical lab-
oratory, has been at the Brookhaven National Laboratory conducting
neutron-activation analysis of sherds from certain historic sites.

Salvage archeology, continued in Alexandria, Virginia, by arche-
ological aide Richard J. Muzzrole, has been extended to two sites in the
District of Columbia—the Third Street freeway tunnel across the Mall
and the area being excavated for the FBI building on Pennsylvania
Avenue. The recovery in the latter site of a copper box revealed a
minor historical event regarded as important in an earlier, more inno-
cent Washington. The box, containing old newspapers and other docu-
ments, was bulldozed from the cornerstone of the long-forgotten
Temperance Hall on E Street, NW., and retrieved by Muzzrole. Re-

search by him and by students in the Smithsonian graduate program
_ in American Studies has disclosed that the dedication of this cornerstone
and its contents on 4 July 1843, was the occasion of parades, speeches,
naval gun salutes, and the joining of white and free Negro associations
in a great celebration. The recovery of the box exemplifies the arche-
_ ologist’s capacity to resurrect the immediacy and reality of the past in
_ small fragments which can be joined together in a meaningful, historical
mosaic.

Associate curator Richard E. Ahlborn conducted intensive studies in
areas of Spanish-American cultural history. After collecting specimens
in Peru for the exhibition, “Three Centuries of Peruvian Silver,’ he
traveled to California and New Mexico to study Spanish colonial col-

|

124 MUSEUM OF HISTORY AND TECHNOLOGY

abt

ree
Sy

ROcty
SRS

Sate!

Above left, entry to exhibition of “Three Centuries of Peruvian Silver” held in
November; right, associate curator Richard Ahlborn of the Smithsonian, Sra. Sara
de LaValle, curator of the Museo del Arte in Lima, and collector Sr. Constante
Larco Hoyle of Peru unpack and catalog the more than 200 pieces for the exhibit.
Below, a portion of the silver exhibit.

RESEARCH AND PUBLICATIONS—CIVIL HISTORY 125

Museum technician Betty Wal-
ters posting cards on the Terma-
trex machine for a multi-index
file, part of cultural history divi-
sion’s Termatrex data-retrieval
system.

lections in museums and churches. His resources have been increased
by Mrs. Otto Pike’s generous gift of her card-file notes on the material
culture of Puerto Rico.

Mrs. Betty Walters completed a manuscript on patented desks and
other specialized office furniture made in the third quarter of the
19th century. The Termatrex data-retrieval program, which she has
furthered, now covers more than 5,900 objects, permitting the use of
this system to provide immediate information in many combinations.

Associate curator Rodris Roth continued her investigations of fur-
niture shown at the Centennial Exhibition in Philadelphia, while
collaborator Joan Pearson Watkins added many new photographs to
her pictorial document of California vernacular architecture.

Curator Peter C. Welsh completed an introduction for David Mac-
bride’s 1778 essay “An Improved Method of Tanning Leather,” which
will be reprinted in The Smithsonian Journal of History. He continued
his research on the subject of American folk art and on the Harry T.
Peters lithography collection with special focus on the political prints
of Henry Robinson. For the Cooperstown graduate program in history,
museum training, and American folk culture, Welsh conducted a six-
week course on “Material Aspects of Naive Art.” In August, Welsh
was appointed editor of The Smithsonian Journal of History. He was
a member of the program committee for the 1968 annual meeting of
the American Association for State and Local History and served as
a consultant for the Franklin Delano Roosevelt Warm Springs Museum
and Little White House. In January he began a year’s sabbatical leave.

Assistant curator Anne C. Golovin completed a paper “Daniel Trotter,
126 MUSEUM OF HISTORY AND TECHNOLOGY

Eighteenth-Century Philadelphia Cabinetmaker,” which has been ac-
cepted for publication in the Winterthur Portfolio. She continued her
research on the Harral-Wheeler House of Bridgeport, Connecticut, and
its gothic-revival furnishings. /

Museum technician Anne Marie Serio pursued her study of the 1848
national convention of the Free Soil Party and related political carica-
tures in the Harry T. Peters lithography collection.

Associate curator Keith E. Melder continued research on women’s
status in the United States and on educational reform in the 19th cen-
tury. His major investigations centered on events between 1765 and
1770 leading up to the American Revolution and on the general cultural
and technical history of the Revolutionary period. Associate curator
Margaret B. Klapthor did additional research on White House history,
particularly on the study of china from all administrations. She and
assistant curator Herbert R. Collins progressed in their joint research
on presidential inaugurations. Collins continued his study of American
political campaign bandannas and kerchiefs and began research on
campaign headgear.

An important contribution to numismatic studies was made by cura-
tor V. Clain-Stefanelli, who completed research on the ancient gold
coinages of Kallatis. The results of this project were read by associate
curator Elvira Clain-Stefanelli in August to the International Numis-
matic Congress in Copenhagen. The paper will be published in Museum
Notes of the American Numismatic Society.

In October Mrs. Clain-Stefanelli participated as United States rep-
resentative in the 12th Congress of the International Federation of
the Medal in Paris and arranged for an exhibit at the Paris Mint of
medals engraved by 38 American artists in the period 1960-1967.
Her proposal to publish “Medailles” as a bilingual periodical with French
and English texts, thus contributing to a larger distribution in English-
speaking countries, was adopted by the Congress. The first bilingual
issue is in preparation. .

John Fesperman, curator of musical instruments, produced an arti-
cle describing the Smithsonian collections and musical program for
the spring issue of Current Musicology. He is continuing his research
on organs in Guanajuato and Mexico City, and on the four chamber
organs of John Snetzler in the United States. Associate curator Cynthia
A. Hoover is completing a paper on a trumpet battle at Niblo’s Pleasure
Gardens to be read at the national American Musicological Society
meetings at Yale University in December 1968. Conservator Scott Odell
RESEARCH AND PUBLICATIONS—CIVIL HISTORY 127

is working on a description of the restoration of the Stehlin harpsichord.
Carl H. Scheele, associate curator in charge of philately and postal
history, continued research on devices for handling and _ processing
developed and adopted by the Post Office Department, touching upon
the pneumatic-tube service, the Chicago tunnel system, canceling ma-
chines, office-building mail chutes, and wagon and automobile services.
In May he participated in Washington meetings held in connection
with the fiftieth anniversary of the United States airmail system. Dur-
ing the winter he prepared a commentary based on original research
for the President’s Commission on Postal Organization.
Scheele was appointed chairman of the committee to select the best
article to be published in the forthcoming Thirty-Fourth American
Philatelic Congress Book for the Walter McCoy memorial award. He
served as a juror for selecting the design of the 1968 migratory bird
hunting stamp issued by the Department of the Interior, and lectured
locally on rare stamps in the division’s collection.
Assistant curator Reidar Norby continued his study of postal con-
nections between the United States and Scandinavian countries during
the 19th century and began research on the counterfeited Kansas and
Nebraska overprinted United States postage stamps, in cooperation
with the Bureau of Engraving and Printing.
Claudia B. Kidwell, assistant curator in charge of the section of Ameri-
can costume, pursued a study of 19th-century dressmaker’s drafting
tools as well as continuing her research on 19th-century costume
accessories.
There has been increasing participation by research grantees and
outside investigators. Frederick Fried, an authority on American folk
sculpture in wood, provided a detailed report and analysis of folk carv-
ings in the collections. Mrs. Maureen Cole, a member of the staff of
the Henry Francis duPont Winterthur Museum, spent most of the year
photographing and recording 18th-century objects for the Winterthur
Museum’s nationwide index of American decorative arts. Research
fellow Carroll Greene participated in the research and exhibition pro-
gram commemorating the American Revolution and collaborated in
planning exhibits on Afro-American culture.
Associate curator Margaret B. Klapthor advised the White House on
the design and production of the new Johnson White House china.

Many staff members participated in seminars and orientation lec-
tures in the Smithsonian graduate program in American Studies, as
well as counseling reading students in the program.

128 MUSEUM OF HISTORY AND TECHNOLOGY
ARMED FORCES HISTORY

Research in underwater exploration techniques and documentation of
historical underwater sites continued as the major project of chairman
Mendel Peterson. Under a grant from the Explorers Research Corpora-
tion, an intensive electronic survey of Bermuda waters was made in
cooperation with the government of Bermuda and Edward Tucker.
Large areas of the outlying reefs and fringing coral reefs were swept
with a late-model proton magnetometer.

On the south coast of the islands a new deposit of material from the
Virginia Merchant was discovered. This ship, bound for the Virginia
colony, was dashed on the rocks and sunk in 1660. The same search pro-
cedures were employed in Castle Harbor in a search for the Warwick
which sank in a violent storm in 1619. After several days of sweeping, a
strong impulse indicating deposits of iron was received from an area
lying on the south shore of the harbor near the property of Clay Frick.
Subsequent exploration of the site with the airlift proved that the
Warwick remains had been found and that they lay in deep silt in twenty
feet of water. A permit to explore the site was issued and it is hoped that
funds will be forthcoming to explore the remains of the vessel in the
fall of 1968.

Peterson continued research into the marking and decoration of
muzzle-loading guns and other armament recovered from underwater
sites. He completed two chapters for a book on marine archeology to
be published by unEsco in Paris, a chapter on marine archeology in
a general work on oceanography to be published in the winter of 1968,
and a chapter on early shipping in the New World for a book on man
and his seafaring which is being edited by George Bass of the University
of Pennsylvania.

Museum specialist Alan B. Albright continued his investigation of
methods of preservation of materials recovered from underwater sites.
The appointment of Joseph M. Young as laboratory assistant has aided
this project.

Curator of military history Edgar M. Howell and museum specialist
Donald E. Kloster of the division of military history continued work
on a multivolume, descriptive, critical, and documentary catalog of
United States Army dress to include uniforms, headgear, and footwear.
The first volume of this project, United States Army Headgear to 1854,
is scheduled for publication in September 1968. Much of the research
and writing for the second and third volumes—United States Army
Uniforms to 1857 by Kloster and United States Army Headgear, 1855
to Date by Howell—is complete and work is continuing. This project is
RESEARCH AND PUBLICATIONS—-ARMED FORCES HISTORY 129

Dana M. Wegner, a summer intern,
taking the hull lines off a half-model
of an unidentified monitor.

eae . oa
ALANA ast
.

ee
SAAS
ak

being performed in conjunction with a comprehensive recataloging and
documenting of the uniform collections. It is a highly significant under-
taking in that the uniform collections of the division are the most
comprehensive in America. In connection with the project, Kloster
performed research in the New York Historical Society and the Museum
of the City of New York.

Howell continued his study of contemporary military graphics and
completed an article on the combat art of Harvey Dunn for publication
in The Smithsonian Journal of History.

Associate curator Craddock R. Goins, Jr., concentrated on the prepa-
ration of a detailed documentary catalog of patent models in the firearms
collection, assembling patent drawings, specifications, affidavits, and
other documentary material from the National Archives and the
Patent Office.

In support of the American Studies Program, Howell lectured on the
Revolutionary Army.

Naval curator Philip K. Lundeberg published an extended article
in which he demonstrated that mine and submarine warfare during
World War I exerted a crippling influence upon the Allies’ peripheral
strategy, frustrating Western efforts via the Dardanelles and the Baltic
130 MUSEUM OF HISTORY AND TECHNOLOGY

to establish a common maritime front with Tsarist Russia. He also pub-
lished a study on the United States response to tonnage warfare.

Museum specialist Howard P. Hoffman continued work on a superbly
detailed model of the Continental gondola Philadelphia, plans of which
will appear in a forthcoming publication on Benedict Arnold’s Cham-
plain squadron. Besides assisting the Japanese television industry in
preparing footage for a centennial series commemorating the Mejii
Restoration, the division of Naval History sponsored a lecture by Rear
Admiral John D. Hayes on “Sea Power in the Civil War and Today:
the Du Pont Letters,” in cooperation with the Naval Historical Founda-
tion and the American Military Institute.

Staff Publications

OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR

Bepin1, Sttvio A. “The Aerial Telescope.” Technology and Culture, vol. 8,
~ no. 3 (July 1967), pp. 395-401, 1 pl.

“Galileo Galilei and the Measure of Time.’ Pages 1—40 (13 illustr.)
in Saggi Su Galileo Galilei (Comitato Nazionale per le Manifestazioni
Celebrative del IV Centenario della Nasciti di Galileo Galilei). Florence:
G. Barbera, 1967.

. “The Perspective Machine of Wentzel Jamnitzer.” Technology and
Culture, vol. 9, no. 2 (April 1968), pp. 197—202, 2 pls.

. “The Instruments of Galileo Galilei.’ Chapter 13 (pp. 256-292) in
Galileo, Man of Science. Edit. Ernan McMullin. New York: Basic Books,
Ines 19685 7 “pls:

SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY

CANNON, WALTER F. “P. S. If I Find Out What Truth Is, I'll Drop You a
Line.” Smithsonian Journal of History, vol. 2, no. 2, (summer 1967), pp.
1-24.

“Darwin’s Vision in On The Origin of Species.” Pages 154-173 in
The Art of Victorian Prose. edit. George Levine and William Madden. New
York: Oxford Univ. Press, 1968.

CHAPELLE, Howarp I. Search for Speed Under Sail, 1700-1855. New York:
W. W. Norton & Co., Inc., 1967. 453 pp., illustr.

Finn, BERNARD S. “Alexander Graham Bell’s Experiments with the Variable-
Resistance Transmitter.” Smithsonian Journal of History (Winter 1967),
vol. 1, no. 4, pp. 1-16.

———. “Electronic Communications.” Chapter 19 (pp. 293-309) in Technol-
ogy in Western Civilization.

“Thomson’s Dilemma.” Physics Today (September 1967), vol. 20,
pp. 54-59.

HAMARNEH, Sami K. History of Arabic Medicine and Pharmacy. 88 pp.
(English text), 112 pp. (Arabic text). Cairo: al-Mahasin Press, 1967.

STAFF PUBLICATIONS 131

“Modern historiography and medieval Arabic pharmaceutical litera-

ture.” Pharmaceutical Historiography, Proceedings of a Colloquium Spon-

sored by the American Institute of the History of Pharmacy, pp. 53-69,

124-126, 1967.

. “The National Library at Cairo, the greatest center of learning of its
kind in the Middle East.” Mid East, vol. 7, no. 8 (October 1967), pp.
11-16.

VocEL, Rospert M. “Industrial Archaeology at the Smithsonian Institution:
An Interim Report.” Technology and Culture, vol. 8, no. 3, 6 illustr., 1967.

“Tndustrial Archaeology—A Continuous Past.’ Historic Preservation,

vol. 19, no. 2, pp. 68-75, 4 illustr., 1967.

“The New England Textile Mill Survey.” Historical Archaeology,
vol. 1, no. 1, pp. 34-36, 1968.

Warner, DesorAu J. “The American Photographical Society and the Early
History of Astronomical Photography in America.” Photographic Science
and Engineering, vol. 11, no. 5 (September—October 1967), pp. 342-347.

Waite, JoHn H. ‘Septimus Norris and the Origins of the Ten Wheel Loco-
motive.” Technology and Culture, vol. 9, no. 1 (January 1968), pp. 55-62.

“Old Ironsides, Baldwin’s First Locomotive.” Bulletin 118 of the

Railway and Locomotive Historical Society (April 1968), pp. 85-87.

. “The Janus: A Locomotive’s History Revised.” American Railroad

Journal, vol. 2 (1967-1968), pp. 8-15. (Reprinted from Journal of Trans-

port History, pp. 9-15.)

ARTS AND MANUFACTURES

Avrosko, Rita J. Natural Dyes in the United States. (U.S. National Museum
Bulletin 281), 159 pp. Washington: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1968.

Cooper, Grace R. The Invention of the Sewing Machine. U.S. National
Museum Bulletin, no. 254, 162 pp. Washington: Smithsonian Institution
Press, 1968.

Harris, EvizaABeTH M. “Sir William Congreve and his Compound-Plate Print-
ing. Paper 71 in Contributions from the Museum of History and Tech-
nology (U.S. National Museum Bulletin, no. 252), pp. 69-88. Washington:
Smithsonian Institution Press, 1967.

HorrMan, Joun N. “Anthracite in the Lehigh Valley of Pennsylvania, 1820-
45.” Paper 72 in Contributions from the Museum of History and Tech-
nology (U.S. National Museum Bulletin, no. 252), pp. 91-141. Wash-
ington: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1968.

McHucu, Maureen C. “Conservation Challenge: A Seventh-Century Linen
Handkerchief”. Museum News, vol. 46, no. 6 (February 1968), p. 47-51.

MILteEr, J. JEFFERSON IJ. ‘A Tournay Portrait Bust.” Smithsonian Journal of
History, vol. 2, no. 1 (Spring 1967), p. 67.
_Ostrorr, Eucene. ‘Preservation of photographs.” The Photographic Jour-

nal, vol. 107, no. 10 (October 1967), pp. 309-314.
PETERSON, Gate E. “The Discovery and Development of 2, 4D.” Agri-
cultural History (July 1967), vol. 41, pp. 243-253.
“Living Historical Farms: A Feasibility Study.’ Smithsonian Journal
of History, vol. 2, no. 2 (Summer 1967), pp. 72-76.

132 MUSEUM OF HISTORY AND TECHNOLOGY

SCHLEBECKER, JOHN T. “Agrarianism.” Handbook of World History. New
York: Philosophical Library, 1967.

“Gild system.” Handbook of World History. New York: Philo-

sophical Library, 1967.

“Populism.” Handbook of World History. New York: Philosophical

Library, 1967.

“Agriculture in Western Nebraska, 1906-1966.” Nebraska History

(Autumn 1967), vol. 48, p. 249-266.

“Henry Ford’s Tractor.” Smithsonian Journal of History, vol. 2, no. 2
(Summer 1967), pp. 63-64.

WEssEL, THomAs R. “Agrarian reform.” Handbook of World History. New
York: Philosophical Library, 1967.

“Squirearchy.” Handbook of World History. New York: Philo-

sophical Library, 1967.

“The Honey Bee.” (Smithsonian Information Leaflet 482) 16 pp.,

1967.

“Commerce.” Handbook of World History. New York: Philosophi-
cal Library, 1967.

CIVIL HISTORY

AHLBORN, RicHARD E. ‘Death Cart.” Smithsonian Journal of History, vol. 2,
no. 1 (Spring 1967), pp. 74—76.

“Robards Collection of Retablos.” Smithsonian Journal of History,

vol. 2, no. 2 (Summer 1967), pp. 67-69.

Three Centuries of Peruvian Silver. Exhibition catalogue. Edited

catalogue, provided title article and checklist of objects, pp. 33-36, 41-62.

Lima, Peru. November 1967.

“The Pentente Moradas of Abiquia.”’ Paper 63 in Contributions

from the Museum of History and Technology (U.S. National Museum Bul-

letin, no. 250), pp. 121-167. Washington: Smithsonian Institution Press,

1967.

“Survivals of Spanish Crafts in New Mexico.” Pages 13-14 in 1968
Festival of American Folklife. Washington: Smithsonian Institution, 1968.

CLAIN-STEFANELLI, Etvira. “The United States, Canada, Central and South
America.’ Pages 210-217 in vol. 3 of A Survey of Numismatic Research
1960-1965. Copenhagen, 1967.

“Etats-Unis.” Pages 97-114 in Exposition internationale de la
medaille actuelle. Paris, 1967.

CLAIN-STEFANELLI, VLADIMIR. ‘“‘Numismatics Re-Examined.” The Canadian
Numismatic Journal, pp. 361-364, 1967. Reprinted with minor changes in
Coin and Medal News (Johannesburg), 1967, pp. 9-11; and the Australian
Coin World, 1968, pp. 97-100.

“Coins and Coin Collecting.” Pages 374-375 in The New Book of
Knowledge. New York: Grolier.

FESPERMAN, JoHN T. “Report from Washington.” Current Musicology
(Spring 1968), no. 6, pp. 63-65.

GoLovin, ANNE C. ‘William Wood Thackara, Volunteer in the War of 1812.”
The Pennsylvania Magazine of History and Biobgraphy, vol. 91, no. 3, pp.
299-325, 1967.

STAFF PUBLICATIONS 133

Gorpon, Leo. “Early Russian Periodicals at the Smithsonian Institution.”
The Journal of Rossica Society of Russian Philately, no. 72, pp. 58-62,
(1967).

Hoover, Cyntuia ApAms. “Barak Norman Viol.” Journal of the Viola da
Gamba Society of America, vol. 4, pp. 50-52, 3 pl., 1967.

. “Music at the Smithsonian.” Smithsonian Journal of History, vol. 2,
no. 1 (Spring 1967), pp. 55—66, 13 illustr.

KuapTuor, Marcaret B. “Maryland’s Presidential First Ladies from Calvert
County.” 17 pp. Calvert County (Maryland) Historical Society, 1967.

“White House China of the Lincoln Administration.” Paper 62 in
Contributions from the Museum of History and Technology (U.S. National
Museum Bulletin, no. 250), pp. 109-120. Washington: Smithsonian
Institution Press, 1967.

Me tper, Keiru E. ‘“Forerunners of Freedom: the Grimke Sisters in Massa-
chusetts.” Essex Institute Historical Collections, vol. 103, pp. 223-249,
July 1967.

“Ladies Bountiful: Organized Women’s Benevolence in Early 19th
Century America.” New York History, vol. 48, pp. 231-254, July 1967.

Norsy, Remar. ‘Norwegian “Local’’ Stamps—on Madagascar.” The Post-
horn, vol. 24, no. 3 (July 1967), pp. 41-50. Reprinted in Society of
Philatelic Americans Journal, vol. 30, no. 4 (December 1967), pp. 221-231.

“Finnish ‘Colonists’ in Sweden.” The Posthorn, vol. 24, no. 4

(September 1967), p. 72.

“An Answer to the Stamp Theft Problem.” The Posthorn, vol. 25,

no. 1 (February 1968), pp. 1-6.

“The Swedish Lbr Cancellations.” Scandinavian Scribe, vol. 4, no. 4

(March 1968), pp. 64-65.

“‘Norway—Coat of Arms Issue, 1863-66: One Original Drawing for

all Denominations.” The Posthorn, vol. 25, nos. 1 and 2 (February and

April 1968), pp. 7-18, 31-42.

. “The Scandinavian Stamp Lexicon.” Scandinavian Scribe, vol. 3,
(1967), pp. 173-176, 195-198; vol. 4 (1968), pp. 7-10, 27-30, 47-50,
89-92.

Ove, J. Scorr. ‘The Appalachian Dulcimer.” Pages 30-31 in 1968 Festival
of American Folklife. Washington: Smithsonian Institution, 1968.

Rory, Ropris. Floor Coverings in 18th-Century America. Paper 59 in Con-
tributions from the Museum of History and Technology (U.S. National
Museum Bulletin, no. 250), pp. 1-64. Washington: Smithsonian Institution
Press, 1968.

“A Room from Martha’s Vineyard at the Smithsonian Institution.”
The Dukes County Intelligencer, vol. 9, no. 1 (August 1967), pp. 1—22.
SCHEELE, Cart H. The First Air Mail. Smithsonian Journal of History, vol. 1,

no. 4 (Winter 1967), pp. 74—75.

“On the ‘Wilderness’ of Philatelic Scholarship.” Pages 13-21 in

Thirty-Third American Philatelic Congress Book, 1967.

Owney, Mascot of the Railway Mail Service. Smithsonian Informa-

tion Leaflet 506, 7 pp., 1967.

“The National Postage Stamp Collection: Smithsonian Institution.”

Minkus Stamp Journal, vol. 2, no. 3, pp. 3-10, 1967.

134 MUSEUM OF HISTORY AND TECHNOLOGY

Wartxins, C. Matcotm. “The Cultural History of Marlborough, Virginia.”
United States National Museum Bulletin, no. 253, 225 pp., 1968.

“The Historic Roots of American Folk Life.” Pages 10-11 in 1968
Festival of American Folklife.. Washington: Smithsonian Institution, 1968.

Watkins, C. Matcotm, and Ivor No—~EL Hume. “The Poor Potter of York-
town.” Paper 54 in Contributions from the Museum of History and
Technology (U.S. National Museum Bulletin, no. 249), pp. 73-112.
Washington: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1967.

WeEtsu, Peter C. Track and Road. 200 pp., illustr. Washington: Smith-
sonian Institution Press, 1967.

ARMED FORCES HISTORY

LUNDEBERG, Puiuip K. ‘“‘Undersea Warfare and Allied Strategy in World War I”
(Part II: 1916-1918). Smithsonian Journal of History, vol. 2, no. 4
(Winter 1966-1967), pp. 49-72.

“Japanese Prints of Perry Expedition.”” Smithsonian Journal of His-

tory, vol. 2, no. 1 (Spring 1967), pp. 70-74.

“The USS Constitution.” Pages 153-158 in The Great Age of Sail,

edit. J. Jobé. Lausanne, 1967.

‘La Réplique des Etats-unis 4 la guerre au tonnage.” Revue d’His-

toire dela Deuxiéme Guerre Mondiale (January 1968), pp. 67-96.

The Collections

CARE AND CONSERVATION—GIFTS AND ADDITIONS

Mathematical items added to the collections, aside from miscellaneous
single mathematical instruments, consisted mainly of documentary ma-
terial related to digital computers. Among various individuals and cor-
porations who donated materials, Grace Murray Hopper provided a
variety of important items related to the history of programming, and
the Rand Corporation contributed a large quantity of technical manuals
and other descriptive materials.

Science and Technology

In medical sciences, new additions were: an early Julius H. Hess infant
oxygen unit for premature infants; a rare Egyptian sacred amulet
with multiple eyes (about 600 B.C.), gift from E. R. Squibb & Sons,
Inc.; an original prototype dermatone for cutting skin grafts in the
treatment of severe wounds and similar injuries, invented by George J.
Hood in cooperation with Earl C. Padgett; a 1925 Tycos recording
sphygmomanometer for measuring blood pressure in the arteries; an
original stapling apparatus for small blood vessels invented by Dr.
Julian A. Sterling; and about 45 Japanese medical, pharmaceutical, and
dental antiques from the Tokugawa Shogunate period (1603-1867).
A handsome oil painting by J. Shreeve in about 1855, showing two
firemen of the Northern Liberties Fire Company of Philadelphia, was
given to the Museum for the division of transportation by the Society
of Oldest Inhabitants of Washington, D.C. Reynolds Metals Company
presented a fine scale model of an aluminum hopper car which illus-
trates the novel design and construction of the modern freight car. The
marine collection was enriched by a half-model of the famous clipper
ship Flying Cloud, a gift of Henry G. Currier.
Notable additions to the collections in engineering were: the Bathe

Collection of steam-engine models, literature, and manuscript material ;
the Willans high-speed steam engine and generator, circa 1880, the
_ first and most widely used engine for direct coupling to electric genera-

tors; 15 watercolors of American railroad stations by Ranulph Bye;
_an oil painting, “Harlequin,” by Lili Rethi, showing the Verrazano-

| 135
y

Three Red Lines, by George
Warren Rickey, at west end of
the Museum of History and
Technology. Kinetic sculpture
of welded stainless steel, painted.
The blades, 32 feet long, taper
in width from 8 inches to 34
inch. From the Joseph H. Hirsh-
horn Collection.

Narrows Bridge under construction; a 17th-century striking and alarm
clock with Gothic decorative elements; a Massachusetts shelf clock by
Aaron Willard; and a very unusual lighthouse clock patented by Simon
Willard.

As the opening of the hall of electricity appeared to be drawing nearer,
increased emphasis was placed on obtaining objects that would fill im-
portant gaps in the collections. Of particular note was a collection of
tubes and notebooks from his early work received from television pioneer
Philo T. Farnsworth. Another item was a 1939 Scott FM radio receiver
from Charles A. Curtze which will be used in a demonstration to help
illustrate, through actual operation, the relative merits of AM versus
FM broadcasting at the time FM was introduced. In June, curator
Finn made a field trip to Newfoundland to investigate the early tele-
graph equipment still extant in the Atlantic-cable landing stations.
THE COLLECTIONS—SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY 137

Meggers infra-red spectrograph,
from the Bureau of Standards.

Below, 18th-century British the-
odolite by J. Sisson. This prob-

Philo Farnsworth in about 1934, ably documents a development
holding a_ dissector-multiplier toward smaller size for greater
tube like one in a group given stability.

to the Smithsonian.

Eighteenth-century circumfer-
entor by Thomas Wright, a
standard British surveying in-
strument.

These stations have recently been taken out of service, and Western
Union International has indicated its desire to make some of the equip-
ment available to the Museum.

There were significant accessions in the physical sciences in the field of
spectroscopy. The Meggers infrared spectroscope has just been retired
to us by the Bureau of Standards. It is scheduled to be an impressive
operating exhibit of the precision equipment used by a modern phys-
icist. Two spectroscopes used by the pioneer American astrophysicist

315-997 O- 69 - 10
138 MUSEUM OF HISTORY AND TECHNOLOGY

Charles A. Young in his studies of the sun were donated by the Princeton
University Observatory. One, made by Alvan Clark and Sons in 1877,
is equipped with a diffraction grating ruled on a Lewis M. Rutherford
engine; the other, holding up to six prisms, was made by Grubb of
London.

Two 18th-century English surveying instruments, a theodolite by J.
Sisson, and a circumferentor by Thomas Wright, were acquired. It
seems likely that study of the former will lead to significant results with
respect to the development of basic surveying instruments.

The division of physical sciences is making a serious effort to acquire
works of art related to science. Pride of place goes to the contemporary
art form called “Astralite III’ donated by the artist, Adam Peiperl,
which features ever-changing colors floating in a globe. A number of
18th-century prints and engravings were also acquired.

Arts and Manufactures

John Deere Company of Moline, Illinois, presented a John Deere gar-
den tractor. A 1908 Fitzhenry-Guptill power sprayer was given by the
Department of Agriculture; a 1921 truck and 1921 tractor seat by
Bostrom Corporation, Milwaukee, Wisconsin; a one-way disk plow
by Francis Angell, Plains, Kansas; and a 1961 experimental gas-turbine
tractor by the International Harvester Company, Chicago, Illinois.
To the ceramics and glass collections came 20 pieces of 18th-century
European and Oriental porcelain from Dr. Hans Syz; especially note-
worthy was a fine Chantilly bowl, circa 1740, decorated in Kakiemon
style. Mrs. Florence E. Bushee donated 27 rare 19th-century European
and American paperweights, and The Academy of Natural Sciences of
Philadelphia donated a splendid collection of sixty 20th-century porce-
lain birds manufactured by Edward Marshall Boehm, Trenton, New
Jersey. The latter collection, originally given to the Academy of Natural
Sciences of Philadelphia by Mr. and Mrs. Morris Gastwirth, was trans-
ferred to the Smithsonian Institution with their kind permission.
From Mrs. Harold G. Duckworth came a unique collection of 720
19th-century American pressed-glass cup plates which comprise an index
collection and are most important in documenting the history of the
American glass industry. From Eugene D. Buchanan, five important
18th-century ceramics were received, including an extremely interesting
Leeds cream-colored earthenware teapot; and from Mr. and Mrs.
Edward M. Pflueger, five pieces of 18th-century European porcelain
and faience. Outstanding in this gift is a Hochst porcelain, Italian
comedy figure dating about 1755. From Mrs. Nathan Cummings came
a most unusual English Jackfield jug, circa 1750, beautifully painted
THE COLLECTIONS—ARTS AND MANUFACTURES 139

English salt-glazed stoneware drinking
vessel in the form of a bear, shown
above. At right, English cream-colored
earthenware figure of a musician,
Neale & Company, about 1790.

with birds and flowers; from Dr. Lloyd E. Hawes, 16 pieces of English
earthenware and stoneware dating from the 18th and early 19th cen-
turies; from Dr. and Mrs. Laverne G. Wagner, five pieces of Carder
Steuben glass; from Mrs. William A. Sutherland, 8 pieces of 18th-cen-
ture English porcelain, including an especially fine Worcester pitcher
painted with exotic birds; from Samuel L. Zeigen, a splendid pair of
Meissen figures with baskets, circa 1740; from Marshall Zeigen, a very
important set of three Bow vases, circa 1755; from Lyle N. Perkins, a
fine, large reduction-fired slab pot.

A long-range program of cataloging and cross-referencing the print
collection by subject matter was begun in the division of graphic arts.

Accessions included the Scan-A-Graver 559, one of the first electronic
halftone engraving machines, the gift of Fairchild Graphic Equipment;
and a set of printing-roller casting equipment dating from around 1900.
Among additions to the print collection were 28 bound volumes of
cartoons by Martin Branner, from the artist; some 300 original cartoon
drawings by contemporary artists from the Newspaper Comics Council;
prints by Saul Steinberg, Anders Zorn, John Sloan, Nalle Werner, Rune
Pettersson, Jean-Henry Marlet, Gordon Grant, and Ralph Nankivell;
and photoglyphic etchings by William Henry Fox Talbot.
140 MUSEUM OF HISTORY AND TECHNOLOGY

Museum technician Horace
Randolph operates a densitom-
eter in order to determine if arti-
ficial aging has altered the
transmission density of a photo-
graphic negative.

Notable additions to the history of photography collection included
an autograph letter of 1852 from W. H. Fox Talbot to Abbe Moigno,
defending his priority in the invention of paper photographic prints;
and an autograph letter from the scientist Sir John Herschel to the
photographer Julia Margaret Cameron, and a group of graphic arts
prints and watercolors depicting early photography.

In England, Eugene Ostroff procured materials related to the life
and work of W. H. Fox Talbot, for display in a reconstruction of ‘Tal-
bot’s laboratory in the new hall of photography. These items include
photographic apparatus, furniture, and a walking stick owned and used
by Talbot.

Gifts of special interest were a tricolor “one-shot” Color-Scout camera
from Fairchild Graphic Equipment; an early Ives Kromskop three-
color stereoscopic viewer with a set of Kromogram color-separation
slides, from Mrs. Herbert E. Ives; and four cameras built for specialized
applications in high-speed photography, from their designer, a pioneer
in the field of high-speed photography, J. S. Courtney-Pratt. The pho-
tographer Daniel Farber also donated a group of his dye-transfer color
prints, and five prints were acquired from the photographer John Brook.

David Haberstich, museum specialist, continued his project of clas-
sifying and arranging the history of photography collection, recatalog-
ing specimens when necessary and performing background research
in order to expand specimen records. He revised the classification and
cross-indexing system for the collection, and produced a guide to cata-
loging and other aspects of the section’s work in order to standardize
procedures. With museum technician Horace Randolph, who joined
THE COLLECTIONS—ARTS AND MANUFACTURES 141

“Orpheus and the Animals” on linen
damask napkin, shown above, with
mythological scenes in border, was
woven in Haarlem, Holland, about
1650. At right, 18th-century linen
press.

the staff in 1967, Haberstich supervised the repair and restoration of
apparatus specimens intended for the hall of photography. In addition,
Randolph rearranged the section’s apparatus storage areas to produce
greater accessibility, and inventoried and rearranged all photographic
items stored at the Silver Hill facility, and started making photographic
records of previously unphotographed specimens, indexing with photo-
graphs and diagrams the location of all items.

A number of important textile items were located and acquired for
exhibition in the new hall of textiles. Among these were a collection of
17th- and 18th-century damask napkins from the C. A. Burgers collec-
tion, weavers’ pattern and account books, an 18th-century linen press,
loom and weaving accessories from Deerfield, New Hampshire, 18th-cen-
tury quilt and canvas embroidery, several excellent printed textiles of
the 18th and 19th centuries, and a number of textile implements.

The staff continued the cleaning, repairing, and special mounting
of textiles for both a special exhibit on Copp family textiles and the
142 MUSEUM OF HISTORY AND TECHNOLOGY

Weaver’s pattern book, early 19th century.

forthcoming permanent hall. Ellen Rae Best, an undergraduate research
assistant completed the initial phase of a project on adhesives for mount-
ing fragile textiles. The limitations of this type of mounting were clearly
demonstrated in her study. Numerous requests for advice on these prob-
lems are answered by the staff each year.

The division of manufacturers and heavy industries received a fine
full-scale reconstruction of “Lady Godiva,” a small prompt-burst reac-
tor which was developed at Los Alamos Scientific Laboratory of the
University of California. This nuclear reactor is authentically unique,
historically significant, and a comprehensive symbol of nuclear energy.
Kiwi-A, the prototype of the nuclear engines being developed for space
transportation, was presented for inclusion in the nuclear-energy col-
lections. An important group of brewmaster instruments was received
as well as a substantial library on the art of brewing. Engineering draw-
ings representing anthracite mining activities in Pennsylvania, a gift
from the trustees of the Tench Coxe estate, were added to the coal-
mining reference collections. Also, several other small donations of
coal-mining tools, safety lamps, and photographs were received.
THE COLLECTIONS—CIVIL HISTORY 143

Civil History

Important broadening of the scope of the collections has resulted from
associate curator Richard E. Ahlborn’s research in Spanish colonial
areas. The gift by Mrs. Otto Pike of 47 religious figures by the Puerto
Rican folk sculptor, Pedro de Arce, enriched a group of nearly 100 other
Puerto Rican carved santos also acquired this year. From New Mexico
came several examples of native religious sculptures and Penitente cult
objects, including a 19th-century death cart used in Penitente cere-
monies. Staff members of the Museum of New Mexico restored several
retablos and a rare 18th-century Franciscan hide painting of San An-
tonio that has been in the Smithsonian collections for nearly a century.
These additions and upgradings of our Spanish colonial materials are
significant of the Smithsonian’s increasing recognition of America’s
cultural diversity.

Mrs. Marjorie Merriweather Post’s gift of a gold chalice encrusted
with more than 1,350 diamonds, made in St. Petersburg by Iver Winfeldt
Buch in 1791 for Catherine the Great, belongs among the Museum’s
most splendid rarities. In connection with curator C. Malcolm Watkins’
research numerous examples of 19th-century American folk pottery,
including many decorative stoneware pieces from New York State, were
acquired for the collections by collaborator Joan Pearson Watkins. A
group of contemporary baskets showing residual African culture traits,
made at John’s Island, South Carolina, was collected by research fel-
low Carroll Greene.

In November the false-front facade of a Victorian butcher shop in
Olema, California, was acquired for future exhibit installation. The

False-front facade of Victorian butcher shop in California before and during
dismantling for future Smithsonian exhibit.
144 MUSEUM OF HISTORY AND TECHNOLOGY

WE

Archeological aide Richard Muzzrole completing the restoration
of a Queen’s ware pitcher of about 1800, one of many specimens
recovered from salvage work in Alexandria, Virginia.

dismantling at the site was conducted by contractor George H. Watson
and his carpenter Charles H. Rowell, under supervision of curator
Watkins. The painstaking process of dismantling was filmed by the Uni-
versity of California Extension Media Film Unit, under the direction
of Ernest Rose. In Washington, collaborator Joan Pearson Watkins
working with the Smithsonian exhibits department’s film unit, began
filming the subsequent preparation and re-erection of the facade in
the Museum. The completed film will demonstrate Watson’s unique
skills and the Smithsonian’s standards of accurate restoration.

Archeological aide Richard E. Muzzrole advised “Ancient Pema-
quid,” an organization engaged in excavating the site of the 17th-century
settlement of Pemaquid, Maine, in setting up an archeological labora-
tory, and conducted a training course at Pemaquid in the conservation
and restoration of artifacts.

Among numerous items associated with the Wheeler family of Bridge-
port, Connecticut, donated by Miss Ellen Wheeler, were nine impor-
tant architectural drawings for the Harral-Wheeler House by the 19th-
century architect Alexander Jackson Davis. Two side chairs and a sofa
in the gothic-revival style from this house were given by Mrs. William
P. Finney:
THE COLLECTIONS—CIVIL HISTORY 145

Ralph E. Becker and assistant curator Herbert R. Collins looking
at a portion of the Ralph E. Becker collection of political Amer-
icana which Mr. Becker has been donating to the Smithsonian

since 1960.

The collection of American costume was enhanced by the addition
of 204 specimens, and work was begun on a project directed by assistant
curator Claudia Kidwell to catalog and mount an extensive collection
of 19th-century fashion plates.

Ralph E. Becker of Washington, D.C., continuing his generous contri-
butions to the political-history collections, gave a gold pocket watch,
tie chain, and poker chips used by Franklin D. Roosevelt. Other dona-
tions of Presidential memorabilia were a black woolen shawl worn by
Abraham Lincoln, gift of Mrs. Shirley Wood; a book of trout flies
used by Grover Cleveland, given by his son Richard Cleveland; and a
cup and saucer used by William McKinley just before his assassination
in 1901, gift of Mrs. Louis Antonsanti. From the Society of the Oldest
Inhabitants of Washington, D.C., came an original 1819 desk used in
the House of Representatives and a double desk of the House of Repre-
sentatives designed by Thomas U. Walter in 1857. Other objects in-
cluded a gold lorgnette and vanity case owned by Mary Todd Lincoln,
gift of Lincoln Isham; a dress worn by Harriet Lane Johnston, niece and
hostess for James Buchanan, 1857-1861, gift of the Misses Elizabeth
Gray, Juliana Paca, and Margaret Beverly Taylor; and the brooch “Our
Mineral Heritage,” given by the executive committee of the 1967
146 MUSEUM OF HISTORY AND TECHNOLOGY

National Gem and Mineral Show. A portrait of Emily Donelson, hostess
for Andrew Jackson, by R. E. W. Earle, was lent by Mrs. Charlton
Henry, and a portrait of Maria Monroe Gouverneur, daughter of
James Monroe, by an unknown artist, was lent by Mr. and Mrs. Harris
Ee Kirk, Ju:

Portraits of James and Dolley Madison and of Mrs. Catherine Crop-
per were restored, and the recording of dresses of the First Ladies con-
tinued with the completion of patterns, muslin models, and sewing
instructions for the dresses of Mrs. Ellen Wilson and Mrs. Edith
Roosevelt.

Among important musical instruments acquired this year were an
18th-century English violin and bow made by John Marshall and John
(Kew?) Dodd respectively, and a 19th-century Chickering square piano.
A harpsichord by Benoist Stehlin, made in Paris and dated 1760, was
restored by conservator Scott Odell with the help of museum specialist
Robert Sheldon, and members of the restoration laboratory staff in the
National Collection of Fine Arts, who assisted with cleaning the lid
painting and case.

The restoration of a small church organ, made by Jacob Hilbus about
1811-12 for Christ Church, Alexandria, was completed in the shop of
C. B. Fisk of Gloucester, Massachusetts. The first organ in the collec-
tions to be restored to playing condition, it is used periodically for con-
certs and informal demonstrations in the hall of musical instruments.

The continued interest of Willis H. duPont in the numismatic collec-
tions was generously expressed in his gift of an authoritative series of
coins struck during the reign of Tsar Alexander II of Russia from 1855
to 1881. Significant additions to the section of ancient coins include a col-
lection of 206 Greek bronze pieces from Asia Minor donated by the
Messrs. Stack and three rare fractional silver coins from Lydia and Per-
sia contributed by Harvey Stack, who also has acquired recent foreign
issues for the collections. The Messrs. Stack also filled gaps in our mod-
ern foreign series through the gift of 1,609 pieces.

The receipt from Mr. Jon Holtzman of a hoard consisting of 1,502
early 15th-century Ottoman akchehs was one of the determining factors
in establishing a special Islamic section with the help of Raymond
Hebert.

Significant additions to the United States series included a collection
of 109 Connecticut 18th-century cents (dated 1785-1788) donated by
Theodore L. Craige. Mrs. F. C. C. Boyd gave a rare gold-assay ingot
of Knight and Company, Marysville, California, bringing to three the
number of American ingots in the Smithsonian collections.
THE COLLECTIONS—CIVIL HISTORY 147

Organ made by Jacob Hilbus of
Washington, D.C., for Christ
Church in Alexandria about
1811-12. Restored to playing
condition in 1967.

{i
‘
3
tt
fy

J. B. Longacre’s original design of 1861 for a double eagle with the
motto, “Our Trust is in God,” as well as other related documentation for
the introduction of the motto, “In God We Trust,” on our coinage, was
a most important gift from the Messrs. Stack, as was an original artist’s
working model of a proposed design for the Washington-head quarter
dated 1932. Harvey Stack presented trial impressions on cardboard of
dies prepared by United States Mint engraver Charles E. Barber for
commemorative gold dollars.
Mr. and Mrs. Mortimer Neinken donated 58 mostly very rare 19th-
century treasury bills issued by German states and banking institutions as
well as 112 notes which formerly circulated in German colonies and a
specialized collection of 968 German post-World War I “pegged-value”’
currency issues, which are of great importance to students of financial
history.

One of the earliest bank notes issued in the Western World, a Swedish

148 MUSEUM OF HISTORY AND TECHNOLOGY

Embossed revenue stamp issued
by the colonial government of
Massachusetts, applied to a doc-
ument on the first effective day
of the act, 1 May 1755.

certificate of credit for 25 dalers in silver issued in 1666 by the Stock-
holm Bank, was given by Joseph B. Stack.

From the Library of Congress were obtained 685 medals and badges
and 194 medals, and 511 dies were given by the Gorham Corporation,
illustrating the contributions to American medallic art made during
nearly one century by this company. The National Commemorative So-
ciety (Philadelphia) and the Société Commémorative de Femmes Celeé-
bres (Wynnwood) gave an impressive series of 18 platinum strikings of
the medals issued by them. Through a donation received from Willis
H. duPont, the series of Russian medals was increased by 287 silver and
bronze pieces of the 19th and 20th centuries.

The tasks of identifying and cataloging numismatic material in the
custody of the division continued as a matter of routine, although
frequently interrupted by construction and installation of devices to
improve security.

In the areas of philately and- postal history, the Reverend Floyd S.
Leach’s collection of 1,454,604 stamps and covers was acquired as a
bequest from the estate of Mrs. Harriett M. Leach. It includes three
volumes of rare American Expeditionary Force covers from North
Russian and Siberia, 1918-1920; a significant group of covers carried by
balloons during the siege of Paris, 1870-1871, together with three
rare “pellicules’—microfilm messages—carried by pigeons during the
siege; and a very extensive collection of United States stamps and postal
markings. John F. Rider, again enriching the European postal-history
portion of the collections, donated a letter posted in Barcelona in 1344.
An embossed revenue stamp issued by the colonial government of Mas-
sachusetts, applied to a document on the first effective date of the act—
THE COLLECTIONS—CIVIL HISTORY 149

1 May 1755—was a gift from the Milton A. Holmes Memorial Fund
and E. M. Moore.

Assistant curator Reidar Norby, museum specialists Francis E. Welch
and Victor H. Weill, and museum technician Frank Berek were all

SPECIMEN TRANSACTIONS—FISCAL YEAR 1968

Accessions Trans- Lent for
(transac- ferred to study to
tions) Exchanged other Gov- investigators
1968 Received with other — ernment and other Specimens
Departments (new) onloan institutions agencies institutions identified
Science and

Technology. . . 120 1 69 0 181 3
Arts and Manu-

FAGLULES an. - 195 80 0 0 56 3, 205
Civil History . . . 525 96 6 2 2,388 13,821
Armed Forces

MIStGry) 540s 1s. 89 1] 0 2 63 875

otalie . . 929 188 75 4 2,688 17,904

SPECIMENS IN THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS, 31 MAY 1968

DEPARTMENT OF SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY. .........-. 105, 865
Physical Sciences . . . ae ices eral 4, 732
Mechanical and Civil Bnpineerag ee ee 125767
PCCEEIC IU gME Merc cnet Soa) sem eg ne ec deme 8, 227
sBcansportation' y=. OI). "see OD Ae ees 43, 186
Medical Sciences .. . ear are 36, 953

DEPARTMENT OF ARTS AND Rian sero S Hehe Mm rs ae 157, 150
Whextiles) 40.8 cu % Pea Stet-A0 Ser ear eee Pe AS 36, 603
Ceramics and ieee RY ae oe Le 5 ee 19, 253
Graphic Arts ... . seta i dae 54, 167
Manufactures and Heavy Taaeeres sae fre 36, 436
Agriculture and Forest Products . ....... 10, 691

DEPARTMENT OF Civit History... . : ee es al 206899

(Section of American Costume count sedarated
from Political History this year)

Folitical History’. . s-) 6. 6 6s eee 37, 023
Cultural History . . Se OS Re sen LO nie 46 26, 604
Philately and Postal Fistocy~ ectrh othe cet a Ul 6 583056
Musiealsinstrumentss. 6 46 6 6.6 6 6 2 eee 57
INUMISTMAtiCSmeew ih ies ais ed an Sue ie ee os 327-2
American Costume .. . Porm snes? a2 13, 038
DEPARTMENT OF ARMED FORCES EeroRe SPAS tg i eee wR 59, 060
NAilitanysEAIStOLy 6, oy es: yas elo oe, ee me ee 45, 225
IN ceva SET IStOLY ate etese goes Gye, 6) eS hoe ee 13, 835

STR) TA Tee ee RNR eT. 8 es anc 4a eta nna s Ue arse 12, 383, 974
150 MUSEUM OF HISTORY AND TECHNOLOGY

engaged in reorganizing and cataloging the philatelic collections, so
that the tremendously widespread interest of the public can be efficiently
served.

Work continued on the information-retrieval system which is being
developed for the United States cover collection. Improved security
was provided for the reference-collection area.

Armed Forces History

The laboratory for the preservation of underwater finds continued
treatment of materials from underwater sites. These processes included
treatment of organic materials with polyethylene glycol, the direct-cur-
rent reduction of iron artifacts, and reconstruction of ceramic vessels.

Most important accessions to the underwater collections were organic
materials recovered from the sites of the Warwick and the Virginia
Merchant in Bermuda.

An unusually comprehensive collection of shoulder-sleeve insignia
were received from David N. Epstein. Also received were a rare Revolu-
tionary-period cartridge box and an unusually fine example of a Brown
Bess musket marked “29th Regt,” elements of which unit participated
in the “Boston Massacre.”

Notable additions to the national collection of naval uniforms in-
cluded a white service dress uniform, worn by Seaman Harry T. Ben-
nett during the Civil War. Enlisted men’s uniforms of the Spanish-
American War era were received from Mrs. Caroline W. Budinger,
Mrs. James E. Ross and Herbert L. Crook. Mrs. Ethel R. Edson donated
the uniforms of Major General Merritt A. Edson, USMC.

The national collection of warship models was enriched by the dona-
tion of an original half-model (alternate lift style) of a Passazc-class
monitor by Thomas A. Burdick and family.

Naval history continued restoration of navigation instruments in the
Weems collection and prepared a series of uniforms for exhibit in the
hall of the armed forces.
Educational Activities

The thrust of the Smithsonian in recent years has been toward involve-
ment with a wider range of people in a wider area of activities. Specifi-
cally, this has brought the Smithsonian and the staffs of its museums
into closer cooperation with the academic world, both teaching and
student, and with the visiting public, principally Washington area
residents and the Smithsonian Associates.

This activity has supplemented the ongoing program of lectures,
symposiums, seminars, workshops, concerts, and recitals that have
brought the public to the Museum, often during periods when it nor-
mally would have been closed.

Staff members have also been increasingly active in the presentation
of lectures and scholarly papers to groups of their colleagues in cities
and universities both in this country and abroad.

Listed below are some of the more important of these events and
their participants.

Avrosko, Rita J. “Early European and American Handlooms.” The New
England Weavers’ Seminar, held on 10 July at the University of Massa-
chusetts, Amherst, Massachusetts.

AHLBORN, Ricuarp E. “Spanish New Mexican Crafts.” Paper delivered in
April at Third Annual Symposium for Historic Preservation (The Southern
Frontier), co-sponsored by Houston Baptist College and National Trust for
Historic Preservation.

“Ecclesiastic Silver of Colonial Mexico” and ‘Domestic Silver of

Colonial Mexico.” Two papers delivered in March at the Fourteenth

Annual Winterthur Conference on Museum Operation and Connoisseurship.

“Silver in Colonial Peruvian Life.” Paper delivered in January at
the Museum of History and Technology on the occasion of the special
exhibition, “Three Centuries of Peruvian Silver.”

Battison, Epwin A. “Repair vs. Restoration” Lecture delivered in June to
the National Association of Watch and Clock Collectors, Philadelphia,
Pennsylvania.

“Water Turbines and Machine Tools,” consultant to New York State
Council on the Arts and Jefferson County Historical Society. May 1968.

Brooks, Puiip C., Jr. “Political Campaign Exhibits at Presidential Libraries
and at the National Archives.” Paper delivered in June at the Twelfth
Annual Institute of Pennsylvania Life and Culture, Lancaster, Pennsylvania.

Cannon, WALTER F. “In Which Charles Lyell is Permitted to Speak for Him-
self.” Paper delivered in September at the White Mountain Conference
on the History of Geology.

151
152 MUSEUM OF HISTORY AND TECHNOLOGY

“The Scientist and the New Civil Servant: John Herschel at the Mint,
1851-1854.” Paper delivered in December at the History of Science Society
annual meeting.

CuHAPELLE, Howarp J. “Colonial Ship Building.” Paper delivered in July
at the Munson Institute, Mystic, Connecticut. :

“Maritime Museums.” Paper delivered in February at the New

Orleans Propeller Club.

“Small Sailing Craft on the Bay.’ Paper delivered at Washington
Coast Guard, April; Maryland Historical Society, May; and Annapolis Yacht
Club, May.

CLAIN-STEFANELLI, ExvirA. “L’evolution artistique de la medaille dans les
Etats Unis.” Paper read 18 October in Paris, at the 12th International
Congress of the ‘Federation Internationale de la Medaille.”

CLAIN-STEFANELLI, Vuapimir. ‘Ancient Gold Coinage of Kallatis.” Paper
read 29 August by Mrs. Clain-Stefanelli at the International Numismatic
Congress, Copenhagen.

“Numismatics Re-Examined.” Official address given in September

at Canadian Numismatic Association Convention and Centennial Celebra-

tion, Ottawa.

; “The Importance of the Study of Numismatics, Gold as a Coinage
Metal, and the Josiah K. Lilly Collection of Gold Coins.” Statement on
27 September before Subcommittee No. 2 of the House Committee on the
Judiciary on H.R. 12941, and identical bills, “For the relief of the estate
of Josiah K. Lilly.” (A 32-page research paper. )

Cotus, Hersert R. “The Lust for Office—The Remains.” Paper and
seminar in June organized for the Twelfth Annual Institute of Pennsylvania
Life and Culture, Lancaster, Pennsylvania.

HaMARNEH, SAmi. ‘‘Medical Education and Practice in Medieval Islam.”
Paper delivered 5 February at the International Symposium on the History
of Medical Education, Los Angeles, California.

Jackson, Mervin H. Project 400 D. C. Education Department—a series of
weekly lectures on marine history as part of the curriculum-enrichment
program.

“Naval Arms and Armament of the Revolution.” Lecture delivered in
March for the American Studies program.

KiaptTHor, Marcaret B. “The First Lady Image.” Paper presented in May to
the History Department, Mount Holyoke College.

MerzpacH, Uta C. “Leibniz and Nineteenth-Century Mathematics.” Col-
loquium lecture presented in April at Yale University.

Norsy, Remar. “The Smithsonian Institution and its Role in Philately.” Lec-
ture delivered 17 July to the Philadelphia Scandinavian Collectors Club,
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.

“The Smithsonian Institution and its Role in Philately.” Lecture

delivered in October to the National Institutes of Health Stamp Club,

Bethesda, Maryland.

“The Smithsonian’s Philatelic Treasures.’ Lecture delivered 24

October to the Washington Scandinavian Collectors Club, Washington, D.C.

“Project Smithsonian.” Lecture delivered 16 November to the North

Jersey Scandinavian Collectors Club, Upper Montclair, New Jersey.

EDUCATIONAL ACTIVITIES 153

“The Smithsonian Institution and its Role in Philately.” Illustrated
lecture delivered 12 June to the Wilmington Stamp Club, Wilmington,
Delaware.

OstrorF, Eucene. “The Invention of Photomechanical Reproduction.” Paper
presented 24 May at the American Association of Museums meeting, at New
Orleans, Louisiana; scheduled for publication in Museum News.

“The Photomechanical Image and Its Origin.” Paper presented 23
April to the Society of Photographic Scientists and Engineers, at Washington,
D.C.

PETERSON, MenveL L. “Techniques of Underwater Exploration and Research.”
Series of four lectures delivered in February under the sponsorship of the
University of Texas at El Paso.

RotH, Ropris. ‘Centennial Taste: American Furniture at the 1876 Phila-
delphia Exposition.” Paper delivered in September at Pennsbury Manor
Americana Forum, Pennsbury Manor, Morrisville, Pennsylvania.

SCHEELE, Cart H. “The Post Office Department and Urban Congestion, 1893—
1953.” Paper presented in December at the Eighty-Second Annual Meet-
ing of the American Historical Association, Toronto, Canada.

VoceL, Ropert M. The New England Textile Mill Survey. Paper delivered
in July at the Manchester Rotary Club, Manchester, N.H.

“Prelude to Progress—Victorian Manchester and the Future.” First

session of series, November, sponsored by the Manchester Historic Associ-

ation and the Currier Gallery of Art, “The Dark Satanic Mill,’ Manchester,

New Hampshire.

“Industrial Archeology, the Off Side of the American Heritage.”

Paper delivered in November at the Society of Architectural Historians,

Washington Chapter, Washington, D.C.

“The Place of Industrial Archeology.” Paper delivered in January at

the Society for Historical Archeology, Williamsburg, Virginia.

“Industrial Archeology: A New Field of History.” Paper delivered
in April at the Virginia History Federation, Fairfax, Virginia.

WetsH, Perer C. “A Century of Technological Change, 1750-1851.” A
series of lectures delivered at the 1967 Annual Seminars on American Cul-
ture sponsored by the New York State Historical Association.

Wuirtr, Joun H. “Cincinnati Incline Planes and Hilltop Houses.” Paper
delivered in December before the Cincinnati Historical Society.

Musical Events

The division of musical instruments is distinguished uniquely from
other units of the department in its ability to communicate aurally as
well as visually. As in previous years, its musical performances and dem-
onstrations of early instruments have added a dynamic dimension to the
exhibit function. During the course of the year, the following concerts
were performed:

Tower Music, weekly—July through August (evening performances

on brass instruments from the crenelated roof of the main portico
of the Smithsonian Building).

315-997 O-69 - 11
154 MUSEUM OF HISTORY AND TECHNOLOGY

Amsterdam Baroque Trio—14 July 1967.
Frans Brueggen, recorder—25 October 1967.
Baroque Players of New York—14 November 1967.
Alan Curtis, harpsichord—5 December 1967.
Jean Hakes, soprano; John Fesperman, organ—18 January 1968.
Sonya Monosoff, violin; James Weaver, harpsichord—12-13 Febru- |
ary 1968.
Albert Fuller, harpsichord—16 April 1968. |
Flore Wend, soprano; Frank Bowen, flute; James Weaver, harpsi-_
chord—14 May 1968. |
Tower Music, weekly—3-—24 June. Augmented by tympani. |
Each concert, except for Tower Music, was preceded by a lecture’
relating to instruments, repertoire, and performance conventions heard
in the performance. |

|

|
|

Exhibits

A special mathematical exhibit on the development of the modern
computer opened in late August. This opening was timed to coincide
with the twentieth annual meeting of the Association of Computing
Machinery, which convened in Washington, D.C. The exhibit featured
representative historic items in the digital and analog field, as well as
a “reading table” at which visitors were able to study at leisure codes
and programs of the late 1940s and early 1950s.

A special exhibit was shown between October and April on the
telephone experiments of Alexander Graham Bell. This drew in large
part on the researches published by curator Bernard Finn; the exhibit
concentrated on the year 1876, showing the progress of the inventor
through his experimental equipment, his notebook entries, and his later
courtroom testimony.

In February, the division of engineering sponsored a showing of
American artist Ranulph Bye’s watercolors of 19th-century railroad
stations. Mr. Bye has presented 15 of the paintings to the Museum. They
are not only accurate architectural documents, but of great artistic
merit as well. An outstanding spring event was the joint sponsorship by
the division and the Society of Architectural Historians (Washington
chapter) of a lecture: “Industrial Archeology—Whose Benefit, Whose
Responsibility?” by Kenneth Hudson of the Bath University of Tech-
nology. The lecture was followed by a joint Smithsonian-Historic Amer-
ican Buildings Survey show of drawings and photographs titled “Recent
Projects in Industrial Archeology.”

Two special shows were completed during the year. The Nautical
Research Guild’s 25th-anniversary ship-model show was held in the
hall of American merchant shipping. The Winton transcontinental auto-
mobile panel was installed in the front hall of the museum.

In cooperation with the committee on the history of dentistry of the
American Dental Association, an exhibition on “Early American Den-
tistry” was installed at the medical gallery, featuring the original denture
set of President George Washington, paintings, certificates, tools, and
dental equipment from the collection of the University of Maryland,
College of Dentistry, in Baltimore.

The 75th anniversary of the invention of the internal-combustion
tractor was marked in 1967. A special exhibit, depicting the growth

155

156 MUSEUM OF HISTORY AND TECHNOLOGY

ae me;

ies

A special exhibit marked the 75th anniversary of the invention of the internal-
combustion tractor.

and technological changes in the internal-combustion tractor and the
significance of the tractor to American agriculture, was displayed for
six weeks in September and October.

From 2 March through 15 April the ceramics of Judith and Henry
Halem—a talented husband-and-wife team of ceramists from Fred-
ericksburg, Virginia—were shown in the Museum. From 12 April
through 2 June the products of the Kastrup-Holmegaard Glassworks
were displayed in an exhibition entitled “140 Years of Danish Glass.”
This exhibition featured the finest works of a major Scandinavian glass
factory and documented the evolution of design and technique from
traditional forms to advanced concepts in glassmaking.

Regular demonstrations of 19th-century hand printing have been
started at the Columbian press in the hall of graphic arts. It is planned
to expand the demonstrations to show printing at an 18th-century
wooden press and a late-19th-century platen press.

A traveling exhibition of prints by Mexican artists had its inaugural
showing in the graphic arts gallery from December 1967 to February
1968. Original cartoon drawings selected from the Newspaper Comics
EXHIBITS LD

Museum technician James Spears demonstrating hand printing at the 1865
Columbian press in the hall of graphic arts.

Council’s gift to the Smithsonian were shown from November to De-
cember 1967.

Planning for the permanent hall of photography was greatly acceler-
ated, and consequently no new temporary displays were scheduled dur-
ing the year.

The section of photography assisted and advised Charles Eames in
the preparation of the special exhibition “Photography and the City,”
which opened 5 June in the Arts and Industries Building. Numerous
photographs, cameras, and other items from the photography collection
were included in the display.

With the assistance of Alfred McAdams, the temporary exhibit of
nuclear-energy equipment was modified to provide a better sample of
some of the significant items. Work was commenced on the erection
of the full-scale model, a part of CP-1, the first nuclear reactor devel-
oped by Enrico Fermi at Chicago in 1942.

“The Copp Family Textiles,’ a special six-month exhibition, was
opened on 15 March. The collection from the Copp family of Stoning-
158 MUSEUM OF HISTORY AND TECHNOLOGY

Mrs. Alice Roosevelt Longworth, daughter of President Theodore Roosevelt, and
assistant curator Herbert R. Collins at the opening of the “Pastimes of the
Presidents” exhibit, 15 September 1967. In the foreground is a Nile Lechwi, a
type of antelope, brought down by Theodore Roosevelt during a Smithsonian
expedition to Africa.

ton, Connecticut, was presented to the Museum in 1896, and includes
a rare cross-section of the types of household and furnishing textiles
used by one New England family from 1750-1850. Daily demonstra-
tions of the processing of flax and wool fibers and of weaving checked-
linen bed furnishings are given by Mrs. Helene Bress, a local craftsman,
and Mrs. Lois Vann of the division staff.

A one-unit exhibit on “American Sewing Machines,” a brief introduc-
tion to the Museum’s collection, was opened in the first-floor rotunda
in May. |

Work with the designer on the layouts and graphics for the permanent
hall of textiles continued, and the hall is scheduled to open in January
1970:

A notable special exhibition, ““Three Centuries of Peruvian Silver,”
brought to the Smithsonian 210 pieces of ecclesiastic, domestic, and
equestrian silver of the 17th, 18th, and 19th centuries never before
seen in the United States. Opened on 19 December and continuing
until 15 February, the exhibition was made possible through the cooper-
ation of El Patronato del Peru, El Museo del Peru, and the Peruvian
Embassy in Washington, Antonio Lulli, Minister Counselor.
EXHIBITS 159

Mir

Webb C. Hayes III, great-grandson of President Rutherford B. Hayes, Smith-
sonian Secretary S. Dillon Ripley, and William Howard Taft III, great-grandson
of President William Howard Taft, at the opening of the “Resolute” desk exhibit,
16 November 1967. The desk was given to President Hayes in 1880 and deposited
in the Smithsonian Institution by the White House.

In January a period room from Martha’s Vineyard, Massachusetts,
was installed under the direction of associate curator Rodris Roth in
the hall of everyday life in the American past. Once the parlor of Ed-
mund and Deliverance Crowell’s house in Vineyard Haven, it bears the
date of its construction, 1808, and features a remarkable primitive land-
scape painting built into the paneling over the fireplace mantel.

One of the exhibit highlights of the year was the “Pastimes of the
Presidents,’ opened in September, which depicted leisure-time and rec-
reational activities of the Presidents from George Washington to Lyndon
B. Johnson. Using original associational objects, the content of the
exhibit ranged from John Quincy Adams’ original poetry, philatelic
interests of Franklin D. Roosevelt, and horseback riding by several
Presidents, to the strenuous sports indulged in by Abraham Lincoln,
John F. Kennedy, and others. Portions of the “Pastimes” exhibit were
later shown at the Anacostia Neighborhood Museum. The Resolute desk,
160 MUSEUM OF HISTORY AND TECHNOLOGY

given by Queen Victoria to President Rutherford B. Hayes and last
used by President John F. Kennedy, was placed on exhibition in Novem-
ber. Its deposit in the Smithsonian Institution as a historic object was
authorized by President Lyndon B. Johnson.

Another in a series of special exhibits pormmernaue ine events leading
up to the American Revolution and opened in June, was “The Glorious
Cause of Liberty,” dealing with American colonial resistance to the
Townshend Acts in the years 1767-69, and featuring original documents
and objects from the period.

In January an exhibit of photos and artifacts dealing with 18th- and
19th-century organbuilding was presented in conjunction with a concert
and a lecture by Miss Barbara Owen. An experimental temporary
exhibit representative of musical instruments from the collection marks
the beginning of a docent program and of trials for several new exhibit
techniques. These include the use of chairs equipped with stereophonic
speakers through which concert tapes are played.

A. radio series broadcast for 13 weeks over educational station
WAMU-FM began on 4 June. These programs consist of tapes made
during Smithsonian concerts.

The “Retrospective Exhibit of the American Medal,” sponsored by
the Medallic Art Company in New York, set up under the direction of
Mrs. E. Clain-Stefanelli, marked the celebration of the 75th anniversary
of the National Sculpture Society.

Ephraim Evron, Minister of the Embassy of Israel, and Moshe Cohen,
Director of Philatelic Services in Jerusalem, participated in the formal
opening of a one-month special exhibit of postage stamps on 20 May
to commemorate the 20th anniversary of the founding of the State of
Israel. Also, during the same month, the rare 24-cent United States
airmail issue of 1918, with inverted vignette, together with certified
proofs from the two plates which were used to produce that issue, were
placed on special exhibition in the Arts and Industries Building during
the week which marked the 50th anniversary of the United States air-
mail service.

Planning and design of the hall of armed forces history, 1865 to date,
occupied the staff during the year. Particular emphasis was placed on
two period rooms to be installed.

Exhibits specialist Donald Holst constructed five finely detailed mili-
tary figures for the model of the Continental gondola Philadelphia being
built by Howard P. Hoffman.

National Air and Space Museum

S. PauL JoHNsToN, Director

| Diae FOR OPTIMUM UTILIZATION of the authorized (1966) but as yet

unbudgeted National Air and Space Museum are under constant
review, and a special NAsM Task Group meets periodically to assess
programs for the education and inspiration of the American people
concerning the past accomplishments, present attainments, and future
potentials of flight.

In this respect, the Museum is now less concerned with displays of
“famous firsts” in air and space than with the continuously changing
presentations of the impact of man-flight on the cultural life of Amer-
ica, and is envisioned as part of a great public educational facility in
which visitors may gain new knowledge of the world around them and
clues as to what the future may hold.

For these reasons, planning for NAsm during the past years has
concentrated on two major areas: On the development of creative
and stimulating exhibits which reveal to the layman and the specialist
where we have been, why we are here, and where we are going in man’s
quest for mastery of the air and of space; and on pioneering in the
history of flight, both as a branch of the history of science and tech-
nology and as a determinant in the history of man as a social animal.
Despite current budgetary limitations and personnel restrictions,
a number of programs were initiated or continued which are designed
to provide firm foundations for future development in these areas.

161
Main reference files and indexes
of photographic and film col-
lections are readily available for
researchers.

Great progress was made in the
physical arrangements and the
consequent utility of the muse-
um’s research center. A large
backlog of unsorted material |
still exists, but the bulk of the
most needed documentary and
photographic material is shelved
and readily retrievable.

Thousands of bound volumes
include complete files of re-
search and periodical aero-
space technical and historical
literature from all over the
world.

Drawings, technical litera-
ture, photographs, and bibli-
ographic files are maintained
in readily available form.

Historical Research

Progress was made by curator Robert B. Meyer on his monograph on
the development of Professor Langley’s remarkable engines of 1900-
1903, and by assistant director Paul E. Garber and George Conner on
their comprehensive history of the early years of air mail in the United
States. Curator Louis C. Casey continued his research on the contribu-
HISTORICAL RESEARCH 163

tions of Glenn Curtis to aviation, and assistant director Frederick C.
Durant III his in-depth studies on NAsm’s contributions to modern
rocketry and space flight and on the development of Congreve’s and
Hale’s 19th-century rockets. The latter brought to the Museum copies
of archival material on these two pioneers.

Research and editorial support was furnished to a number of au-
thors whose books ‘are scheduled for publication during 1968. Support
was also rendered to others on such diverse research as 16th-century
studies of rocketry and 19th-century lifesaving and whaling rockets.

As a result of participation in the organization of international sym-
posiums on the history of rockets and astronautics, a series of thirteen
memoirs, presented at Belgrade in 1967, are being edited by the astro-
nautics department and prepared for publication by the Smithsonian
Institution Press.

An in-depth study of naval aviation development during the first
decade after World War I, focusing on the contributions of Admiral
William Moffett and DeWitt C. Ramsey, is being undertaken by his-
torian Richard K. Smith. This is the first historical research project
to be supported by the Admiral DeWitt C. Ramsey memorial fund,
which came to the National Air and Space Museum in the form of a
substantial bequest from Mrs. Ramsey’s estate.

The Guggenheim project, under a grant from Harry Guggenheim,
was established in August. Guggenheim Fellow Alexis Doster is inves-
tigating the impact of the Guggenheim-founded aeronautical labora-
tories and schools during the 1920s and 1930s on the subsequent de-
velopment of air and space technology.

Research files were established containing biographies of over six
hundred graduates and faculty members of the seven schools founded
by the Guggenheim Fund for the promotion of aeronautics. Of these,
twenty who made outstanding contributions to the advancement of
aeronautics and space technology were chosen as representative of
those who have been influenced by the Guggenheim schools, and
the contributions of each will be described and evaluated.

The oral history project of the NAsm research center, under the
direction of E. W. Robischon, added new tape recordings, bringing
the total recordings to the tape bank to 180. Notable among those
people recorded were Floyd L. Thompson, Director of the NASA
Langley Laboratory; Admiral Edwin C. Parsons, USN, (Ret.) , member
of the Lafayette Escadrille in World War I; Arthur E. Raymond,
designer of the Douglas DC-1 transport; and Waldo Waterman, an
early aviation designer. A program of interviews on a nationwide scale
was inaugurated to insure inclusion of all remaining pioneers who have
made important contributions to aviation and space flight.
Paul Garber discussing kites after his lecture 11 March on the nationalities, types,
practical uses, and the role of kites in the development of aircraft. Sponsored by
the Smithsonian Associates, the lecture was followed later by a workshop, a
prelude to the second annual Smithsonian kite carnival. Kite on left is a type
used in Bermuda; center, a traditional newspaper kite; and, right, copy of an
early American kite shown in a book printed in 1836.

Educational Activities

Assistant director Paul E. Garber made a major contribution to the
education program through his lecture program to school groups and
outside organizations, in which he gave 95 talks on aeronautical history
and allied subjects to an estimated 12,500 persons.

The information and education department, working with the Federal
Aviation Administration in its teacher workshop programs for elementary
and secondary schools, is presently developing a new program for
teacher education in which Louis S. Casey and Robert B. Meyer, Jr.,
have been active. A program for secondary school students is being
developed at the nasm facility at Silver Hill, where students may have
actual contact with significant air and space artifacts.

In conjunction with the Smithsonian Institution office of academic
programs, a three-day tour and seminar was conducted for a group
of fifteen students from St. Albans School. A docent educational program
is planned for the near future.

At weekly lunch-box seminars, held in the NAsm conference room,

EDUCATIONAL ACTIVITIES—THE COLLECTIONS 165

staff members are apprised of information on subjects related to air
and space technology by speakers from industry, private corporations,
and other government agencies.

Local chapters of the following organizations met on a regular
basis at the Historical Research Center (figures in parentheses indicate
the number of meetings held): Antique Airplane Association (4),
American Aviation Historical Society (9), International Plastic
Modelers Society (3), Experimental Aircraft Association (1), Ninety-
Niners (3). The Center staff served a total of 966 visitors and answered
5,760 telephone and letter requests during the year.

The Collections

EXHIBITS AND SPECIAL EVENTS

The following exhibits and special events took place at the Smithsonian
(or elsewhere, as indicated) during the year:

Lockheed ‘“‘Vega”’ aircraft used by Amelia Earhart, on the occasion of the 40th
anniversary of her round-the-world flight (July).

Charles and Anne Lindbergh’s “Sirius” (Dulles Airport, National Aviation Day,
August).

Exhibit on Santos-Dumont; paintings by John McCoy, “Painting Aviation
History” ; DeHaviland DH—4 (Langley Research Center) and Langley aero-
drome model (National Academy of Science) (September).

Installation of 1mm and NAsA “Gemini” exhibit, and ‘Paris Air Show” and
NASA “Project Mercury” exhibits (October). ,

At the opening of a one-man show of John McCoy’s historical painting, Paul
Garber, right, discusses the original Wright flight at Kitty Hawk with the artist
and Astronaut John Glenn.
166 NATIONAL AIR AND SPACE MUSEUM

Vt 4
mut 8

Part of the growing collection of
spacecraft and related material
now in the museum’s custody
under an agreement with NASA.
(Photo courtesy United Press
International, Inc.)

Paintings by John Desatoff of TRW, Inc., “U.S. and Foreign Spacecraft’; and
presentation of Kennedy family plane Caroline (November).

Huff-Daland crop duster aircraft (January).

“Bios II’ satellite and paintings by Henry Farré, “Sky Fighters of France”
(February).

Rocket motors from Aerojet General Corporation; McDonnell F-—4A aircraft,
Gemini 7 spacecraft, and Bell H—13 helicopter (on the Mall) (April).

Presentation of the Collier Trophy, ceremony for 50th Anniversary of the Air
Mail, rebuilt DH-—4 installed United States Air Force exhibit, F9F aircraft
installed at Anacostia playground (May).

Scientific balloon payloads and Air Force exhibit (June).

The Silver Hill facility under the supervision of Donald K. Merchant,
transported, relocated, or prepared for shipment to exhibitions in the
United States and Europe some 25 full-size aircraft, spacecraft, or their
major components.

The visual presentations division at the 24th Street facility, under
the supervision of Harry Hart, completed the installation of photo-
graphic, silkscreen, and carpenter shops and supported more than 19
temporary exhibits and special activities.

CARE OF COLLECTIONS

A new warehouse was accepted by the Nas and designated for speci-
mens of the astronautics department. The first installation of efficient,
heavy-duty storage racks was completed. Specimens are being stored
there on an instant-retrievability basis. On acceptance of the new build-
ing, NASM vacated two similar warehouses which have been assigned
to other Smithsonian activities.

The preservation and restoration crew also handled several hundred

EDUCATIONAL ACTIVITIES—THE COLLECTIONS 167

additions to the collections which were stored at Silver Hill. New speci-
mens of all types received at Silver Hill totaled 229,136 pounds.

Museum specialist Winthrop S. Shaw, made great progress in identify-
ing, cataloging, and warehousing specimens at the 24th Street facility.
The model collection is now in good order and progress was made in
organizing the artwork and memorabilia, medals, and miscellaneous
artifacts.

ACCESSIONS

Implementation of the agreement on artifacts between the National
Aeronautics and Space Administration and the museum brought to the
latter title to and responsibility for preservation and exhibit of 15 Mer-
cury and 8 Gemini spacecraft, as well as astronaut space suits and hun-
dreds of significant space-related items. Some spacecraft were placed on
long-term loan for display at NASA centers, others were exhibited for
short periods in the United States and Europe. Still others are under-
going restoration and preparation for exhibit. Other spacecraft acces-
sions include flight items and engineering mock-ups of Surveyor, Lunar,
Orbiter, and Ranger. Liaison with nasa field centers continued, and the
NASA contract covering this work was extended an additional year, with
no increase in funds.

Additions to the collections received and recorded during the year to-
taled 636 specimens in 93 separate accessions, as listed below. Those
from government departments are entered as transfers; others were
received as gifts.

AEROJET GENERAL Corp.: Wyld rocket motor; paintings, “The Earth from
Space” and “Portrait of T. von Karman” (NAsm 1833). Liquid propellant
rocket engines: 25 ALD World War II unit, LR 63—AJ—1 unit, Aerobee thrust
chamber, Nike thrust chamber, YLR-63—AJ—3 and YLR-—45—AJ-1 thrust
chambers, 15 KS 1000 smokeless unit, 12 NS 250 Junior jATo unit, Genie
motor, Delta with gimbal unit, F—86 unit propulsion tank, Apollo chamber and
injector, first American JATO (Boushey flight), 14 AS 1000 unit, miscellaneous
tubing (NAsm 1940). Injectors from the Apollo service module engine
(nAsM 1871). Fuel turbopump rotating assembly (NAsM 1952).

Arr Force, UniTep StTAaTEs: Ballistic Missile Division: Photo of earth and stars;
Atlas missile (NAsm 1837). Hill AFB, Ogden, Utah: Rocket engine assembly,
experimental model (NAsmM 1847). Hollman AFB, New Mexico: Rocket sled
(nwAsM 1813). Rocket sled and Tarzon bomb (NAsmM 1814). Air Materiel
San Bernardino, California: Titan I first stage rocket engines (NASM 1805).

Army, UniTeED States, Ft. Meade, Maryland: Jupiter propulsion system trainer
(nAsM 1843). Depot, Anniston, Alabama: Nike-Zeus target reentry vehicle
(nAsM 1804) ; Ft. Wingate, Gallup, New Mexico: Rocket sled (NAsm 1815).

Breecu ArrcraFtT Corp.: Model Beechcraft King Air A 90 (NAsM 1877).

Bett AEROSysSTEMS Co.: Minuteman II post-boost propulsion system (NASM
1949).
168 NATIONAL AIR AND SPACE MUSEUM

Pilot-constructor William Hack-
barth turns over DH-4 mail
plane “Old 247” to NASM
director S. Paul Johnston at the
fiftieth-anniversary ceremony of
the United States airmail serv-
ice.

Cxiark Co., Davin: Astronauts’ clothing patterns (NAsm 1824 and nAsm 1825).

Cu iver, Mrs. PAut: Magnetic compass and map of D.C.—Norfolk, Virginia;
used by Paul Culver in flying the mail, 1918 (Nasm 1941).

DELTA ArrtinEs: Huff-Daland aircraft (NAsm 1839).

De WELDON, FE.Ix: Bust of John Glenn (NAsm 1927).

Forp Moror Co. Aeronutronic Division: Far side rocket (NASM 1811).

GENERAL ELeEcTRIC Co.: Biosatellite mock-up (NAsm 1950). Model of Nimbus
II, meteorological satellite (NAsm 1834). Engine, cutaway, GE turbosuper-
charger, Type B—2 (NAsm 1800).

GUGGENHEIM, Harry: Collection of 174 aeronautical cartoons and prints
(NAsM 1827).

HackBARTH, WILLIAM: Airplane, reproduction of DH—4 mailplane (NAsM
1942).

HeErcuLeEs, Inc.: Rocket motor assembly (X—259) (NAsm 1844). Vanguard
rocket motor (NASM 1951). Rocket engine mock-up of BE-3-—Bl (NaAsm
1850).

Ken-Arr, Inc.: Convair 240, John F. Kennedy’s campaign aircraft Caroline
(NASM 1840).

Macuapo, Mrs. ANEsIA PINHEIRO: Memorabilia of Santos Dumont (NASM
1836).

MALINA, FRANK J.: Kinetic painting, “Polaris I” (NAsm 1830).

MartTIN Co.: Space tools (NASM 1820).

McDonneLtt Douctas Corp.: Spacecraft batteries (NAsM 1849). Miscella-
neous hardware, Gemini program (NASM 1943 and NAsm 1944). Apollo heat-
shield, service module beams, barometric pressure indicator (NASM 1945).
Digital elapsed time clock, manual data readout unit, attitude director indi-
cator (NASM 1946). Mirror assembly for installation in GI—10 (Nasm 1864).
Heat-shield remains and storage batteries from Gemini 8 (NAsm 1955). Storage
batteries from Gemini 9 (NAsm 1956). Log books for spacecrafts 9 and 10
(NAsM 1948).

Meyer, Rosert B., Jr.: Aero engine, Continental A-40, series 4 (NASM 1873).

MIkeEsH, Major Rosert C.: Vietnamese birds kite (NASM 1841).

MINNESOTA MINING AND MANUFACTURING Co.: Paintings, “Tiros,” “Mariner,”
and “Polaris” (NAsm 1835).

EDUCATIONAL ACTIVITIES—-THE COLLECTIONS 169

NATIONAL AERONAUTICS AND SPACE ADMINISTRATION: Static test module
(nasm 1812). Accutron clock and whip antenna for Gemini 9 (Nas 1819).
Digital computer (NAsM 1821). Gemini crew station mock-up (Nasm 1954).
Spacecraft Gemini 10 (NAsm 1857). Model of Surveyor spacecraft (NASM
1867). Ellington AFB, Texas: Spacecraft Mercury 17 and Mercury 19 (NASM
1947). Langley Research Center, Virginia: Spacecraft Mercury 18 (NASM
1851). Manned Spacecraft Center, Houston, Texas: Gemini hand con-
troller (NAsmM 1832). Ventilation unit for space suit (NAsM 1826).
Mercury spacecraft 5 and chimpanzee couch, ballistic flight, “Ham” aboard
(wasm 1854). Mercury spacecrafts 15, 9, 10, 8 and 128; Mercury spacecraft
wiring mock-up, Mercury spacecraft “Big Joe”; instrument mock-up, static
test article #2, drop test vehicle, adapter sections, storage tank, heatshield
and retro package; Gemini parachute and couch parts (NAsm 1845). Space
suit and helmet of astronaut Collins (NAsm 1865). Space suits and helmets of
astronauts Cernan, Schirra, Stafford, Cooper, Lovell, Conrad, Armstrong, and
Grissom (NAsM 1866). Chimpanzee couches, Mercury retro rocket package,
Gemini systems demonstrator, Mercury abort engine and nozzle, Mercury
rendezvous and recovery section, decompression chamber, procedural trainer
couch assemblies for astronauts Cooper, Shepard, Glenn, Slayton, and Car-
penter (NAsm 1859). Space helmet and suit of astronaut Young (NAsM 1861).
Gemini spacecraft 7, water gun, astronaut food, Eva gear, helmet of John
Glenn, hatch cover and periscope cover from Friendship 7 (NASM 1858).
Astronaut Borman’s space suit, parachute, helmet, boots, visor cover and gloves
(wasm 1818). Spacecraft hatches (NAsmM 1823). Personnel parachutes, non-
flight (NAsm 1855). Marshall Space Flight Center, Alabama: Internal com-
bustion engine, Jupiter missile (NAsM 1808). Rocket engines RL—10 and H-1
(wasm 1810). St. Louis Missouri: Orbit attitude and maneuvering system
(wasm 1846). Gemini spacecraft 11 with tilting cradle (NAsm 1848). Gemini
spacecraft 6 and 12 (NAsm 1853). Computer Gemini 8 (NAsM 1852). Inertial
maneuvering unit (NAsm 1856). Indeterminate hardware, nonflight items
(nAsm 1862).

Navy, UnitTep States: Bat missile, Rigel missile, two Gorgon missiles and JATO
bottle (NAsm 1831). Mechanicsburg Defense Depot, Pennsylvania: Petrel
missiles (NASM 1822). Naval Air Development Center, Johnsville, Pennsyl-
vania: Human centrifuge, used in training astronauts (NAsM 1869). Naval
Air Station, Point Mugu, California: Terrier missile with rails (NAsmM 1953).
Navy Yard, Washington, D.C.: Vanguard launch vehicle (NAsm 1806).
USNCBC, Port Hueneme, Calif.: Corporal missile (NAsm 1809).

Nortu AMERICAN RocKWELL Corp.: Apollo heatshield, service module beams,
barometric pressure indicator (NASM 1945).

Pace, Mrs. STANLEY H.: Control wheel with column, lever and collection of
spark plugs; from the Page Flying Boat, 1918-1923 (Nasm 1870).

Penpray, G. Epwarp: Propellant valve, section of Shesta four-nozzle rocket;
World War I helmets (NASM 1828).

PurRDUE UNIVERSITY: Walter rocket engine (NAsM 1801).

RopENBERRY, GENE: Pilot film of television program “Star Trek” (NAsM 1838).

Rotis-Royce, Lrp.: Rolls-Royce RB-108 direct lift turbojet engine (NASM
1878).

RoyaL ARTILLERY INsTITUTE: Hale and Congreve rockets (NASM 1816).

SICARD, PIERRE: Painting “‘Départ du Missile’ (NAsM 1829).

315-997 O- 69 - 12
170 NATIONAL AIR AND SPACE MUSEUM

SMITHSONIAN INstTITUTION: United States National Museum: Bronze head of
Charles A. Lindbergh (NAsM 1872).

Sperry WatcH Co.: Full-scale model of Sergeant missile (NAsm 1802).

STEVENSON, Gorpon: Letter and envelope from Hiram Maxim to Edward
Hewitt dated 28 June 1892 (Nasm 1842). :

TuiokoL CHEMICAL Corp.: Ars test stand (NAsM 1817).

Unirep ArrcRAFT CorporATE SYSTEMS CENTER: Reentry vehicle (Nasm 1807).

Waters, CoLoneL Don: Machine gun, Lewis .303 caliber, 1914 (Nasm 1879).

We su, E. C.: Oil portrait of Edward Christy Welsh by Hoessein (NAsM 1863).

The Museum’s Historial Research Center was greatly enriched during
the year with valuable research materials. The cooperation of the follow-
ing persons and organizations in providing this material is gratefully
acknowledged:

Aerospace Industries Association Mirkil, Mrs. Beatrice

Aero Publishers Molson, Kenneth M.

Baldwin, Leonard National Aeronautics and Space Ad-
Beilstein, Christian W. ministration, AP/2 and FAD-2
Bent,- John T. Newhouse, Raymond R.

Bentley, J. Roger Ninety Nines, Inc., The

Bermuda News Bureau Oleson, C. P.

Bleecker, M. B. Parrish, Robert L.

Blue, Allen Pettit, H. H.

Boeing Company, The Protzman, Lee

Bueschel, Howard A. REA Express

Caproni, Giovanni Robischon, Ernest W.

Culver, Mrs. Paul H. Rockefeller, W. C.

Czechoslovakia, Embassy of Rockwell, W. F.

Dean, C. Thomas Rust, Robert E.

Delta Air Lines, Inc. Scott, Shelia

Diehl, William Smith, Richard K.

Edelson, Burton I. Spader, Daniel L.

Gathmann, Mrs. Elam Spare, Leland P.

General Precision, Inc. Towle, Tom

Generales, C. D. J., Jr. Townshend, Jesse F., Jr.

Creer, RD, Jr. .  Trauger, Robert

Hall, Mrs. Wesley C. United Aircraft Corp., Pratt and Whit-
Hartung, Walter M. ney Division

Hay, N. W. United States Navy, Aviation Safety
Hickey, John E. Center, Norfolk, Virginia

Hiller, Stanley, Sr. United States Navy, Naval Air Facility,
Hirsch, R. S. Norfolk, Virginia

Hunsaker, J. C. Vilar, Mrs. Yvonne

Johnson, Jesse G. Wieczarek, Leonard H.

Lech, Andrew F. Wiesley, Keith

Lindbergh, Mrs. Charles A. Wilford, Burke

Ludholm, Joseph G., Jr. Wilkinson, Paul H.

Miller, W. Tom Zapelloni, Fererico

Miller, Warren C.

National Armed Forces Museum
Advisory Board

Colonel Joon H. Macruper mI, usMc, Director

Rees ONAL ACTION IS PENDING on legislation which would au-
thorize the Smithsonian Institution to acquire necessary land
for the site of the proposed National Armed Forces Museum Park in the
Fort Foote area of Prince George’s County, Maryland. Pursuant to a
recommendation by the Board of Regents on 25 January 1967, identical
bills for this purpose—Senate Bill S. 2510 and House Bill H.R. 14853—
were introduced, respectively, by Smithsonian Regents Senator Clinton
Anderson (for himself and Senator J. William Fulbright) on 6 October
1967 and Representative Michael J. Kirwan on 25 January 1968.
Under the broad concept expressed in Public Law 87-186, the
National Armed Forces Museum Park is to consist, in part, of a study
center for scholarly research into the meaning of war and its effect on
civilization. Addressing this subject, the Advisory Board during the year
sought the advice of academicians and museologists in an effort to define
objectives and programs of the study center and to determine its rela-
tionship with the museum proper. On 4-6 December 1967 the Board
sponsored a conference of distinguished historians to consider and make
specific recommendations regarding these matters. The group, which met
at the Belmont Conference Center under the chairmanship of Smith-
sonian Regent John Nicholas Brown, permanent chairman of the
Advisory Board, consisted of Philip A. Crowl, chairman, Department of
History, University of Nebraska; Colonel Trevor N. Dupuy, USA
(Ret.), president and executive director, Historical Evaluation and
Research Organization; Archibald Hanna, Jr., curator, Yale Collection

171
General Leonard F. Chapman, Jr., Commandant of the United States Marine
Corps, and Colonel John H. Magruder III, USMC, director of the Smithsonian’s
National Armed Forces Museum Advisory Board, view John Groth’s painting
““Stampeded” at the February opening of the art exhibition, “The Armed Forces
of the United States as seen by the Contemporary Artist.”

of Western Americana, Yale University; Richard M. Leighton, professor
of national security affairs, Industrial College of the Armed Forces;
Louis Morton, professor of history, Dartmouth College; Harold L.
Peterson, chief curator, National Park Service, Department of the
Interior; and Theodore Ropp, professor of history, Duke University.

The recommendations of the Belmont group, approved by the
Advisory Board and the Board of Regents on 25 January 1968, called

for —

Early appointment of a senior scholar to serve as chairman of study
center activities, responsible for establishing the nucleus of a staff
and organizing initial programs, and to assist in planning the role
the museum and study center would play in commemorating the
Bicentennial of the American Revolution, and

Establishment of a committee of eminent scholars in the field of
military history to provide a closer link between the Smithsonian
Institution and the academic world. Such a group would comple-
ment the functions of the Advisory Board by enlisting the active
participation of the intellectual community.

From 2 February through 9 March 1968, in the rotunda and south
hall of the Arts and Industries building, the Advisory Board—in cooper-
ation with the Army, Marine Corps, Navy, Air Force, and Coast
Guard—presented an exhibition of art entitled ““The Armed Forces of

neem

<a

General surface view of dredging operations at the site of the sunken Civil War
monitor USS Tecumseh, in Mobile Bay, Alabama, on 13 July 1967. A suction
dredge removes mud and sand from around Tecumseh’s bow. Small diving barge
in center foreground is moored to the monitor’s stern. The dark pentagonal
structure close to the beach is Fort Morgan, the batteries of which constituted

a major obstacle to Rear Admiral David G. Farragut’s entry into the bay on
5 August 1864.

the United States as Seen by the Contemporary Artist.” The exhibition
drew primarily upon the collections of the Armed Forces but also
included selections from holdings of several Smithsonian bureaus and
outside establishments such as the Library of Congress and the Libraries
of Princeton and Yale universities. Comprised of 196 art works in
almost all media, representing the work of 85 artists, and pro-
viding a kaleidoscopic view of Armed Forces activities present and past,
the exhibition attracted much favorable comment, including a four-
page pictorial presentation in U.S. News and World Report of 18 March
1968.

During July 1967 a team composed of staff members of the Advisory
Board and of the Office of the Supervisor of Salvage, Department of the
Navy, conducted an engineering examination of the Civil War monitor
U.S.S. Tecumseh, lying capsized and almost wholly buried under mud
and sand on the bottom of Mobile Bay, Alabama, where she was lost in
battle in 1864. With the aid of a suction dredge, a considerable portion
of Tecumseh’s hull was uncovered, enabling divers to remove samples
of the iron plating. Subsequent laboratory analysis by the Navy estab-
lished that the historic ship retains enough of her structural strength
to permit her salvaging intact and, after restoration, her eventual display

> need

fos noe
eS
= a
174 ARMED FORCES MUSEUM ADVISORY BOARD

in the proposed Armed Forces Museum Park. Artifacts recovered in
the course of the examination include one of Tecumseh’s one-ton
anchors and—brought out of a partially open wardroom hatch—several
pieces of dinnerware, a bronze floor ventilator, and part of a pewter
cruet holder.

Battle damage uncovered during the examination disposed of a
century-old controversy regarding the circumstances of Tecumseh’s loss,
namely, whether she was sunk by the explosion of an underwater “tor-
pedo” (mine) or by gunfire from shore batteries as claimed by some
Confederate eyewitnesses. Divers, inspecting the bottom of the hull
directly beneath the turret, found an area of depressed plates about
five feet wide by seven feet long. Here the explosion of a “torpedo”
ruptured several seams and forced one plate inward, leaving an opening
approximately two feet wide by three feet long—ample to send Tecumseh
with almost all her crew beneath the waves in something like a minute.

Through the year, the Advisory Board staff acquired from various
agencies of the Armed Forces, from the General Services Administration,
and others, a wide variety of military and naval objects desired for
the collections of the proposed National Armed Forces Museum Park.
Two major components—the float and the Krupp-made gondola—of
the bathyscaphe Trieste I, acquired from the Department of the Navy,
arrived in the Washington, D.C., area (the gondola via Expo-67) from
the Naval Electronics Laboratory, Point Loma, San Diego, California.
As the year ended, plans were being made for temporary outdoor exhi-
bition of the bathyscaphe in the vicinity of the Mall, preliminary to her
eventual display in the Armed Forces Museum Park. In cooperation
with the Smithsonian library, the Advisory Board staff continued to
acquire from Armed Forces historical agencies and elsewhere military
and naval historical publications for use in current studies and to serve
as a nucleus of the study-center library of the Museum Park.

Freer Gallery of Art

Joun A. Pope, Director

ie IN PAST YEARS, the Freer Gallery of Art, continues to function as

a research center for the civilizations of Asia and to add objects of
significant quality, whenever they become available, to its collection of
Oriental art. The staff members are engaged in research projects which
relate to the cultural origins of the objects in the collection. To further
this, they travel at home and abroad to see collections and study related
material and exchange views with colleagues working on similar proj-
ects. Established scholarship programs exist, and students of Oriental
art are encouraged and assisted in working with objects in the
collection.

Gifts and Grants

The Freer Gallery of Art received a grant from the Ford Foundation
to assist in the publication of volume 1 of The Freer Chinese Bronzes.
The Felix and Helen Juda Foundation contributed travel funds to be
used in the technical research area. The Ellen Bayard Weedon Foun-
dation provided a grant for library purchases. Kevorkian Foundation

Jade, Chinese, Chou dynasty (late Eastern). 5th—-3rd century B.C. (68.38).
75
176 FREER GALLERY OF ART

Hu, with cover, Chinese bronze,
Han dynasty, 2nd—1st century
B.C. (67.27).

funds given in March 1967 were used again toward the purchase of Near
Eastern art volumes.

The Collection

Among the many objects of exceptional quality added to the collection
were, in Chinese art, a fine jade incised blade dating from the Late East-
ern Chou dynasty (68.38), presented by Mrs. Eugene Meyer in ac-
cordance with the will of Charles Lang Freer, and a bronze hu of the
Han dynasty (67.27). In Japanese art were added an unusual pair of
paintings of mynah birds by the Nanga school artist Yosa Buson (1716—
1783) (67.18-67.19) and a large, shallow dish, an exceptional example
of Kutani ware, dating from the Edo period, 17th century (68.13) ; and
in Near Eastern art, a rare pair of Persian bowls from Kashan, early
13th century, with representations of a king and queen (67.24—-67.25).

Under the terms of paragraph 4 of the first codicil to the last will and
testament of the late Charles Lang Freer, the following 40 objects were
presented by Mrs. Eugene Meyer:

BRONZE
Chinese, Chou dynasty. Kuei, on high foot ring, two handles with rams’ heads;
greenish patina. (68.28)
Chinese, Chou dynasty. Kuei, on high foot ring, four handles with deer head
masks; greenish patina with malachite crust. (68.29)

ads SWS
\y
oo
ee

Sy
mi
‘

7

M
2
«
a
z
©
4

ay
‘
\
Vz
‘
.
%

Mynah birds and plum tree. Japanese painting, Edo
period, 18th century, Nanga School, by Yosa Buson
(1716-1783). (67.18). One of a pair: 67.19.
178 FREER GALLERY OF ART

Dish, Japanese pottery, Edo period, 17th century, Kutani
(68.13).

Bowl, Persian pottery, Kashan, early 13th century A.D.
(67.24). One of a pair: 67.25.

THE COLLECTIONS 179

Chinese, Chou dynasty. Hu, with lid, on high foot ring; round body, tapering
tall broad neck; decorated with abstract motifs (Changsha). (68.32)
Chinese, Chou dynasty. Bowl, on high foot ring, two mask handles holding

loose rings. (68.33)
Chinese, Chou dynasty. Vessel, on three high legs, in form of abear. (68.34)
Chinese, Chou dynasty. Hu, square, with lid, two mask handles. (68.35)
Chinese, Han dynasty. Expanding open-work foot of a po-shan-lu with dragons;
gilded. (68.49)

JADE

Chinese, Shang dynasty. Tsung, plain, brownish black nephrite square with
open cylindrical center. (68.24)

Chinese, Shang dynasty. Battle-axe pi disc, buff colored jade with darker
mottling. (68.48)

Chinese, Chou dynasty. Tsung, brownish gray nephrite square with open cylin-
drical center. (68.30)

Chinese, Chou dynasty. Tsung, brownish buff patina, square body with open
cylindrical center; corners notched. (68.36)

Chinese, Ch’ing dynasty. Form of stylized tiger, both sides identically engraved,
reddish brown jade with translucent greenish spots. (68.37)

PAINTING

Chinese, T’ang style, attributed to Ho Chen. Winter landscape; two groups of
figures, “Calling on a Friend with a Harp.” Painted in polychrome on
silk. (68.17)

Chinese, T’ang dynasty, by Wang Wei. Landscape after a snowfall. Mountainous
background with large valley, hamlet, and flights of geese. On silk.
(68.27)

Chinese, Sung dynasty, by Li Kung-lin. Scene depicting a tipsy monk with as-
sistants. Ink and light colors on paper. (68.18)

Chinese, Sung dynasty, attributed to Li Kung-lin. Manifestation of the Arhats
depicting seven mudras of Buddha and various Lohans and guardians.
Painting on paper. (68.19)

Chinese, Sung dynasty, attributed to Li Kung-lin. Hunting scene. Ink on
paper. (68.20)

Chinese, Sung dynasty, by Li Kung-lin. ‘“Laotze Delivering His Canons.” Ink
on paper. (68.21)

Chinese, Sung dynasty, by Su Shih (Su Tung-p’o). Depicts bamboo. Ink on
silk. (68.25)

Chinese, Sung dynasty, attributed to Li Kung-lin. “The Eighteen Lohans:
Cho-Se Shih-Pa Lo-Han T’u.” Ink and colors on paper. (68.26)

Chinese, Sung dynasty, by Ma Yiian. Mountainous landscape, rocks and trees.
Painting on silk. (68.43)

Chinese, Sung dynasty, by Chii-jan. ‘‘T’ao YuUan-ming Returning to Secluded
Life.” Painting on silk. (68.47)

Chinese, Sung dynasty, attributed to Mi Fei. “Mist and Rain on the Ch’u
River.” Ink on silk. (68.52)

Chinese, Yiian dynasty. “Nymph of the Lo River.’ (Copy of early version, cf.
Sung dynasty 14.53.) Ink on paper. (68.12)

Chinese, Ming dynasty. “Ladies in Concert.” Ink and color on paper. (68.23)
180 FREER GALLERY OF ART

Chinese, attributed to Chia Kue. Mountainous landscape on misty morning.
Ink on silk. (68.44)

Chinese, attributed to Lu T’an-Wei. ‘‘The Return of Duke Wen of Chin to
His Own State.” Ink on paper. (68.22)

Chinese, copy of “Prince Tung Tan’s Return to Tartary.” Unsigned. Colophon
by Ju Yen dated 1424. Painting on silk. (68.46)

Japanese, Edo period, 17th century. Embossed flower chariot under willow
trees of gold leaf. Six-fold screen; one of a pair: 68.40. (68.39)

Japanese, Edo period, 17th century. Embossed flower chariot under willow
trees on gold leaf. Six-fold screen; one of a pair: 68.39. (68.40)

POTTERY

Chinese, Wei dynasty. Terra-cotta flat brick, tomb lining; two men and un-
mounted horse; high relief. (68.55)

Chinese, T’ang dynasty. Standing warrior, head turned to right; one of a
pair: 68.42. (68.41)

Chinese, T’ang dynasty. Standing warrior, head turned to left; one of a pair:
68.41. (68.42)

Chinese, Sung dynasty, Tz’u-chou ware. Jar; floral sprays, black gackground.
(68.16)

Chinese, Sung dynasty, Tz’u-chou ware. Vase with ovoid body, short neck,
everted lip rim. (68.31)

Chinese, Yiian dynasty, Tz’u-chou ware. Vase on expanding foot ring; high
bulbous shoulder, short, wide neck; figures and floral decoration. (68.50)

STONE SCULPTURE

Chinese, Wei dynasty. Seated Buddha and two standing bodhisattvas; dragons,
tigers, and men on side; high relief. (68.53)

Chinese, Wei dynasty. Standing Buddha and two bodhisattvas; floral motif; high
relief. (68.54)

Chinese, Northern Ch’i dynasty, Standing bodhisattva, high crown, head raised,
long-lobed ears, holding lotus bud; dark gray granite. (68.45)

TEXTILE

Chinese, Ch’ing dynasty. Jehol cut velvet hanging tapestry; swastikas, flowers
and dragons, large peonies and foliage on blue ground; K’ang-hsi. (68.51)

Purchased for the collection were:

LACQUER

Chinese, Sung dynasty, 960-1280. Dish with round base and cavetto, flattened
rim with small vertical lip of chrysanthemum shape, flat countersunk base ;
brownish red. (67.13)

Chinese, Sung dynasty, 960-1280. Dish with five-lobed base, cavetto, rim and
foot; thin brass binding on lip; brownish black. (67.14)

Chinese, Sung dynasty, 960-1280. Shallow dish with six-lobed rim bound in
metal, low foot; brownish red, dark brown inside foot and on base.
(68.14)

THE COLLECTIONS 181

METALWORK

Japanese, Kamakura, ca. 1300. Iron kettle with lid; Ashiya type; design of
pine trees, shells, and beach. (67.20)

PAINTING

Japanese, Edo period, Ukiyoe school, by Hokusai, 1760-1849. Nobleman and
party. “Hyakunin Isshu Ubaga Etoki” series poem by Ki-no-Tsurayuki. Ink
on paper. (68.56)

Japanese, Edo period, Ukiyoe school, by Hokusai, 1760-1849. Workmen
hauling tree through a gate. “Hyakunin Isshu Ubaga Etoki” series poem by
Ise Taiyu. Ink on paper. (68.57)

Japanese, Fujiwara period, 900-1185. Buddhist sutra, the Kan Fugen Kyo.
Gold and silver on paper. (68.60)

POTTERY

Chinese, Southern Sung dynasty, 1127-1280, Tzu-chou ware. Deep cup-
shaped bowl, low foot ring; gray stoneware, transparent glaze over white
slip ; vertical fluting two thirds of the way down. (67.28)

Chinese, Annamese type, 13th century. Bowl with compressed, thin, slightly
flaring rim; flat, slightly concave base; fine grain, buff stoneware; thin
yellowish green celadon glaze; crackle. (68.59)

Japanese, Momoyama period, 16th century, Shino ware. Water pot with
arching handle, spout and cover; coarse gray stoneware fired reddish in
spots; grayish semi-opaque glaze; crackle; trellis, ivy motif, ferns on cover.
(67.16)

Japanese, Momoyama period, 16th century, Mino-Karatsu ware. Water jar;
uneven cylindrical shape with turned-in lip, two horizontal loop handles;
coarse dark brownish gray stoneware; unevenly mottled gray and tan glaze;
willow and cherry trees in brown slip. (67.17)

Japanese, Momoyama period, 16th century, Oribe ware. Tray, square with
vertical sides, arching diagonal handle, four loop feet; coarse buff stone-
ware; transparent white and green glaze; curtain design underglaze in
brown and white slip. (67.21)

Japanese, Momoyama period, 16th century, Hagi ware. Shallow bowl with
arching handle and high foot with two notches; coarse, buff stoneware
fired reddish; opaque grayish white glaze; uneven crackle. (68.15)

Japanese, Edo period, 17th century, Kutani ware. Large, deep dish with wide,
flaring rim; white porcelain; milky white glaze; overglaze enamels of “‘tor-
toise shell’? pattern on rim, each scale framing an object, bird in landscape
in octagonal frame in center, floral scrolls outside. (67.15)

Japanese, Edo period, 17th century, Banko ware. Dish with arching handle and
everted foliate lip; buff stoneware fired reddish on foot rim; light tan glaze;
crackled; overglaze enamels of bird on a hydrangea branch, red ‘‘dewdrop”
pattern on rim, red lines and clouds on handle. (67.22)

Japanese, Edo period, 17th century, Kutani ware. Large, shallow dish with
plain rim, flat brown lip; coarse whitish porcelain fired brownish; mustard
yellow, green, aubergine, lavender glaze; chrysanthemums and bird on yel-
low ground, lavender foreground and brown scrolls inside. (67.23)
182 FREER GALLERY OF ART

Japanese, Edo period, 18th century, Nabeshima ware. Dish on high foot, flat-
tened rim; fine white porcelain; transparent glaze; underglaze blue and
overglaze enamel colors; outside three “‘six-coin” groups, comb pattern on
foot; rocks and peonies inside center. (68.58)

Persian, probably Gurgan, 13th century. Elephant with howdah and two fig-
ures; fine, buff-colored earthenware; clear turquoise glaze with silvery
iridescent decay ; painted in cobalt blue underglaze. (67.26)

The Gallery was able to acquire by purchase, and through the kind
offer of Professor Alban G. Widgery of Winchester, Virginia, the fol-
lowing paintings from his collection:

Burmese, 18th century. Royal personage with four attendants. Painted in col-
ors and gold on paper. Inscriptions in black nasta’liq script. (68.5)

Indian, set of 20 paintings mounted in glass. Signs of the zodiac and planets.
Painted in colors on paper. Inscriptions in black. (68.1)

Indian, Deccani, late 18th century. Seated ruler with four attendants. Painted
in colors and gold on paper. Inscription. (68.7)

Indian, Deccani, early 18th century. Lady with attendants on terrace. Painted
in colors and gold on paper. Worn inscription in black. (68.9)

Indian, Mughal, 18th century. Ascension of the Prophet (on horseback) sur-
rounded by angels. Painted in colors and gold on paper. Text and inscrip-
tions in red and gold nasta’liq script. One of a pair: 68.3. (68.2)

Indian, Mughal, 18th century. The Higher Regions of Paradise and Heaven.
Painted in colors and gold on paper. Text and inscriptions in red and gold
nasta’liq script. One of a pair: 68.2. (68.3)

Indian, Mughal, 18th century. The Iranians under Rustan defeating the
Turanians under Afrasiyab. Painted in colors and gold on paper. Text
and inscriptions in black and gold nasta’liq script. (68.4)

Indian, Mughal, 18th century. The Virgin Mary and the Miracle of Changing
Water into Wine. Painted in colors and gold on paper; European style.
(68.10)

Indian, Mughal, 18th century. Amatory scene with three figures. Painted in
color and gold on paper. Painting unfinished. (For reverse, see 68.1 1a.)
(68.11b)

Indian, Rajput, early 18th century. Krishna with gopis. Painted in color
and gold on paper. (68.6)

Persian, 17th century, style of 16th century. Shah Tahmasp I seated on rock,
holding bottle and cup; a goat dancer in the background. Painted in
gold and black on paper. (For reverse, see 68.11b.) (68.11a)

Turkish, 17th century. Abraham in the fire watched by Nimrud. Painted in
colors and gold on paper. Calligraphy in gold, blue, and black. (68.8)

Care of the Collections

The technical laboratory examined, cleaned, and repaired, as necessary,
137 Freer objects. In addition, 20 objects under consideration for pur-
chase were examined and 33 objects were examined or repaired for
other museums and individuals.

CARE OF THE COLLECTIONS——CURATORIAL ACTIVITIES 183

Takashi Sugiura, the Gallery’s mounter of oriental pictures, and an assistant,
Mrs. Kumi Kinoshita, select a mounting cloth for a Japanese painting.

Ten Chinese and Japanese paintings and screens were restored, re-
paired, or remounted by Takashi Sugiura and his assistant Makoto
Souta. Illustrator F. A. Haentschke remounted 22 Burmese, Persian,
Indian, and Turkish paintings.

Museum specialist Martin Amt made 250 exhibition changes: 42
were American, 72 Chinese, 35 Christian, 85 Japanese, and 16 Near
Eastern. All the necessary equipment for these changes was provided
by the cabinet shop under the direction of building superintendent
Russell C. Mielke, who has also maintained the building in its usual
immaculate and sound condition.

Curatorial Activities

Director John A. Pope, in collaboration with Robert B. Fox, chief
archeologist of the Philippine National Museum, organized the Manila
Trade Pottery Seminar which took place in Manila 18-25 March 1968.
Some thirty of the leading authorities on Chinese ceramics from Amer-
ica, Europe, China, and Japan were invited to participate and funds
184 FREER GALLERY OF ART

were raised to transport them to Manila. The combined knowledge
and experience of these scholars was brought to bear on the problem of
identifying and classifying some 40,000 fragments and whole pieces of
Chinese pottery that have been excavated in the Philippines over the
last half century. Members of the seminar visited the Museum and the
private collections in Manila and some of the archeological sites where
this material had been found. Plans are underway to publish the
proceedings.

Officials of the National Palace Museum in Taiwan invited members
of the seminar to Taipei, where they took part in another seminar
dealing with some of the problems relating to the Imperial wares in
that collection. The opportunity to study such a wide variety of export
wares and the finest existing collection of Imperial wares within a short
period of time was a rare one, and all agreed that the two seminars
together were a most worthwhile undertaking.

On the way to Manila, Pope visited the East African countries of
Kenya and Tanzania. In medieval times their seacoasts were largely
inhabited by Arabs who built large cities and mosques and imported
great quantities of Chinese porcelains for decorative purposes and, also,
apparently for daily use. Thousands of fragments of this porcelain and
a few whole pieces have come to light in the past twenty years or so as
British archeologists have excavated and reconstructed these early Arab
cities. Most of the material is divided among the British Institute for
History and Archaeology in East Africa at Nairobi, the Museum at
Dar es Salaam, and Fort Jesus at Mombasa. The material studied in
these places will form the basis of an important chapter in the history
of the early trade in Chinese porcelain and also throw new light on the
function of the Indian Ocean as an early trading area.

On the way home, Pope spent a month in Japan, continuing his
study of the early history of Japanese porcelain and again visiting mu-
seums and private collections, as well as many of the early kiln sites in
Saga Prefecture on the island of Kyushu.

Pope was appointed by the Trustees for Harvard University a mem-
ber of the Board of Advisors of Dumbarton Oaks Research Library
and Collection.

Assistant Director Harold P. Stern continued his work as a member
of the United Nations Educational Scientific and Cultural Organiza-
tion Expert Committee for the Preparation of an Exhibition and Album
on Mutual Influences of Japanese and Western Art following his par-
ticipation at the meeting in Paris in June 1967. The exhibition and
publication will be a major attempt to show the cross-cultural art ex-

CURATORIAL ACTIVITIES 185

change between East and West and the project should reach fruition in
1968, the Meiji Centennial year.

From September until January Stern studied Japanese paintings and
drawings in European and British collections and initiated a survey of
early Japanese lacquer as utilized in European furniture. Special em-
phasis was given to the work of the Ukiyoe and Yamatoe schools and
the artists Katsushika Hokusai and Kawanabe Gydsai. (The Freer Gal-
lery has the world’s most extensive holdings of Hokusai.) In addition
he attended the International Institute for Conservation of Historic
and Artistic Works London Conference and assisted Takashi Sugiura,
of the Freer staff, in presenting a session devoted to Far Eastern paper-
conservation techniques.

Plans continued to move forward for the Master Prints of Japan
Exhibition to be held at the University of California at Los Angeles in
April 1969, sponsored by the Art Council. Stern was asked to organize
the exhibition, select the prints, and write the book which will ac-
company it. The show will be the largest and most comprehensive early
Japanese woodblock print exhibition ever held on the West Coast. He
also was called upon in April by the Department of State to organize,
for the delegates to the United States-Japan Conference on Cultural
and Educational Interchange, an exhibition of Meiji period art to be
displayed at the Smithsonian Institution Museum of History and
Technology.

Progress was made on his study of the Gallery paintings of the Ukiyoe
school, with their publication the object. In addition Stern was selected
a trustee of the Japan-America Society of Washington and was asked
to serve on the executive committee.

Head curator Rutherford J. Gettens of the technical laboratory
devoted his major effort to the continued preparation of volume 2 of
The Freer Chinese Bronzes, now in galley proof.

In July 1967, at the invitation of René Sneyers, deputy director of the
Institut Royal du Patrimoine Artistique, he spent the summer in Brus-

¢

sels as “visiting specialist’ observing practices in technical study and
conservation in Belgium, and in writing and editing three articles on
the identification of pigments, to be published in Studies in Conserva-
tion. He also gathered further material in Europe for the pigment
identification series and participated in the one-week conference of
International Council of Museums Committee on Conservation in
Brussels. At the International Institute for Conservation of Historic
and Artistic Works Conference on Museum Climatology, in London, he
was honored as the Forbes Prize lecturer.

315-997 O-69 - 13
186 FREER GALLERY OF ART

In addition to being appointed coordinator of the working group on
“reference materials” for the com Committee on Conservation, Gettens
was elected in March 1968 to a three-year term as president of the mc.

Assistant conservator W. Thomas Chase of the technical laboratory
continued to assist Rutherford J. Gettens in the preparation of the
manuscript for the forthcoming publication on technical studies of
Chinese bronze vessels and his manuscript on two Chinese bronze weap-
ons with meteoritic iron blades. He also carried forward his investiga-
tion of Chinese bronze belt-hooks for a projected future publication.

Chase assisted Professor Oleg Grabar of the University of Michigan
in organizing the Sassanian Silver Conference held at the Freer 28-29
February 1968.

Assistant curator of Chinese art Thomas Lawton was concerned with
a complete reexamination of all objects in the Chinese collection. Colo-
phons, seals, and inscriptions on paintings were studied and new infor-
mation added to the Gallery’s research materials. His organization of
information and selection of representative objects from the collections
for a Gallery handbook are now well under way.

Staff Changes

The Gallery regretfully announced, on 30 April 1968, the retirement
of Rutherford J. Gettens as head of the technical laboratory after seven-
teen years at the Gallery. He will continue to serve as a consultant.

In August 1967 Donald Kelman and Yoshiaki Shimizu completed
their summer intern studies at the Gallery.

William Trousdale resigned as associate curator of Chinese art in
September 1967 to accept a position in the Office of Anthropology,
Museum of Natural History. Thomas Lawton reported for duty as as-
sistant curator of Chinese art.

In May 1968 Morris Rossabi reported for a one-year predoctoral
research internship.

Library

Library acquisitions this year included 337 volumes, 2,338 photographs,
and 2,928 slides.

A total of 296 scholars, students, and visitors used the library for
research, and 10 graduate library students interviewed the librarian
for information on the administration and organization of the library.

Through the generosity of the Weedon Foundation, the library was
able to acquire additional material, among which were:

Toyozo Arakawa. Shind. Osaka, 1967.

Idemitsu Bijutsu Sensho. Tokyo: Idemitsu Bijutsukan, 1966-1968.
Wang Shih-chieh (compiler). Garland of Chinese Painting. Hong Kong, 1967.

LIBRARY—PUBLIC SERVICES 187

Books purchased from the Kevorkian Foundation grant included:

Louis Frederic. Art of India: Temples and Sculptures. New York, 1959.
Kanwar Lal. Immortal Khajuraho. Delhi, 1965.

Public Services

The Gallery was open to the public daily, except Christmas, from 9:00
a.m. to 4:30 p.m. A total of 169,533 individuals visited the exhibits
(the August attendance of 28,652 was the highest of any month) of
which 2,417 visited the office for general information, to submit objects
for examination and inscriptions for translation, to consult with staff
members, to take photographs or sketch in the galleries, to study in the
library, and to examine objects in storage. Members of the staff examined
7,685 objects and 652 photographs, and translated 788 Oriental lan-
guage inscriptions for individuals and institutions. Objects in storage
were shown to 506 persons. By request, 45 groups, totaling 921 persons,
were given docent tours through the exhibition galleries, and 8 groups
of 105 individuals were given docent service in the storage areas. Among
the visitors were 255 distinguished scholars in Far and Near Eastern
art or persons holding official positions who came here to study museum
administration and practices; of this number, 138 were from other
countries.

On 26 October 1967, a ceremony celebrating the coronation of His
Imperial Majesty Mohammad Reza Pahlavi, Shahanshah of Iran, and
Her Imperial Majesty The Empress Farah Diba was held in the audi-
torium. Vice President Hubert H. Humphrey and Ambassador of Iran
and Mrs. Ansary attended, along with many other distinguished guests.
Following this, a special exhibition of Iranian art was opened in the
galleries.

The auditorium was used by 12 outside organizations for 22 meetings
with a total of 3,447 individuals attending.

The fifteenth annual series of illustrated lectures, held in the audi-
torium, included:

“Ceramic Wares of Siam.’ Dr. Charles N. Spinks, American University
(October 1967).

“The Artistic Program of Ajanta.” Professor Walter-M. Spink, The University
of Michigan (November 1967).

“A Newly Discovered Medieval City in the Syrian Desert.’ Professor Oleg
Grabar, University of Michigan (January 1968).

“Musicial Instruments in Japanese Art.’’ Professor David B. Waterhouse, Uni-
versity of Toronto (February 1968).

“Indian and Iranian Elements in Early Japanese Art.’ Professor Benjamin
Rowland, Harvard University (March 1968).

The photographic laboratory, under the supervision of Raymond
Schwartz, processed a total of 17,061 items during the year of both
188 FREER GALLERY OF ART

Freer Gallery objects and those submitted from other sources; these in-
cluded negatives, photographs, color slides, color-sheet films, polaroid
prints, and album and registration prints.

The sales desk sold 113,154 items consisting of 5,353 publications and
107,801 reproductions (including postcards, slides, photographs, and
reproductions in the round).

Publications

GETTENS, RUTHERFORD J. ‘Joining Methods in the Fabrication of Ancient
Chinese Bronze Ceremonial Vessels.” Pages 205-217 in Proceedings of
the Seminar on Application of Science in Examination of Works of Art.
Boston, September 1965.

GETTENS, RUTHERFORD J., HERMANN KuuHN, AND W. T. CHASE. “Lead
White.” Studies in Conservation, vol. 12, no. 4, pp. 125-139, 1968.

LAWTON, ‘THOMAS, AND CHu-TsING Li. ‘The New Chinese Landscape.” Art
Journal, vol. 27, no. 2 (Winter 1967-1968), pp. 142-150.

Pore, Joun A., RUTHERFORD J. GETTENS, JAMES CAHILL, AND NOEL BARNARD.
The Freer Chinese Bronzes. Vol. 1, catalogue. Washington: Freer Gal-
lery of Art (Smithsonian Institution Publication 4706), 1967.

SterRN, Harotp P. Moonlight Revelry. Text for a Springbok Puzzle.
Thompsonville, 1968.

“Traditional Japanese Art.” Asahi Evening News, Tokyo., March

1968.

|

National Collection of Fine Arts

Davw W. Scott, Director

HE NEW GALLERY OF THE National Collection of Fine Arts was

opened in the belief that what it has to offer is profoundly needed
at this time. It is both a resource and a force. As a resource it plays a
vital role, never more important than during an age of rapid change
and reassessment. When we are struck, as we are so vividly today, by
the realization that change is of the essence, we tend to forget the
opposite and equal truth that continuity, as well, is of the essence. One
of the most profound maladies of our time is our emphasis on change
itself, to the exclusion of continuity, as a life principle. This overvalua-
tion strikes at the foundations of orderly growth and evolution. The
arts record the spiritual voyage of our nation and tell us whence we
have come and what values and beliefs have guided and sustained us,
in short—who we are. As a major, continuing repository for significant
American Art, the National Collection is thus a vitally important
resource.

And the Collection is a force. In the terms of today’s activists, it
represents the march of the American spirit. It reflects our inquiry and
our energy, our doubt and our affirmation. Enormous strength, courage,
and faith emanate from the monumental building, from the paintings
in its halls, from the sculpture in its court. Here we see process and
creativity, discipline and imagination, the bridging from the past and
from the present toward the future, the formulation of change, the con-
frontation with and embracing of the new.

And this action operates not only within the walls of the building—
although works of art from all over the country and visitors from all
over the world meet in this arena. The National Collection and the

189
190 NATIONAL COLLECTION OF FINE ARTS

President Lyndon B. Johnson dedicates the nation’s newest, and oldest, museum,
the National Collection of Fine Arts, on 3 May in the sculpture court of the
renovated Old Patent Office Building. Below, the 8th and G Streets entrance
ablaze with light for the 3,318 guests who attended the formal dedication
ceremonies.

OPENING THE NEW GALLERIES 191

exhibits it assembles project their effects outward—to the schools of
the District of Columbia, to the White House, to small libraries and
community colleges throughout the land, and to the nation’s largest
museums. Throughout Latin America, Europe, Africa, and Asia the
National Collection’s International Art Program sends exhibits and
curators, and it co-sponsors art workshops. The Collection communicates
through lectures, slides, prints, publications, periodicals, radio, and
television. It encourages scholarship and trains museum technicians. It
is a lively part of that great national university, the Smithsonian Institu-
tion. Its aim is to project and to share the American experience as a
fundamental part of the universal experience. Its faith is founded on a
belief in the creative energies of man and the ultimate integrity of the
human spirit.

Opening of the New Galleries

The dedication ceremony for the new galleries of the National Collec-
tion of Fine Arts took place at 9:30 p.m., 3 May. Seated under the elms
in the courtyard on that warm spring evening were 3,318 guests. The Sec-
retary, having recounted the history of the National Collection, intro-
duced President Johnson, who characterized himself as feeling “‘very
much like a proud uncle to the National Collection.” He added, “If I
will never be remembered as a patron of the arts, I should be delighted
to be known as an uncle of the arts . . ..one who doesn’t visit often but
likes his relatives to do well.” Then the President and Mrs. Johnson
were escorted through the galleries by the Secretary and Mrs. Ripley.
The red-coated Marine Corps Band played for the moonlit courtyard
ceremony, and, during the reception following the formal dedication,
the New England String Quartet played in the assembly room.

On the following morning, a scholarly symposium was held on the
topic, “Directions for the.National Collection of Fine Arts.” Charles
Sawyer, Chairman of the Smithsonian Art Commission, served as mod-
erator. The three principal speakers, all distinguished members of the
Smithsonian Art Commission, were: Edgar P. Richardson, who com-
mented on research in art history, Bartlett Hayes, Jr., on art education,
and Lloyd Goodrich, on the subject of government encouragement of
the arts. Discussants were Wayne Andrews of the Wayne State Univer-
sity, and John B. Hightower, executive director of the New York State
Council of the Arts. A prepared statement was also read by Alfred
Frankenstein, San Francisco art critic and art historian.

The new galleries—which display some 600 examples of American
painting, graphic arts, and sculpture—opened to the public on Monday,
6 May. They have already enjoyed widespread popular and critical
192 NATIONAL COLLECTION OF FINE ARTS

success. The National Collection presents both continuing and chang-
ing exhibitions in some fourteen halls and galleries, with more exhibit
areas to open subsequently. It shares with the National Portrait Gallery
an extensive library and conservation laboratory established as centers
for training and research.

Response to the opening has been most gratifying. Widespread
Smithsonian support provided essential assistance and a boost to the mo-
rale of the Collection’s staff. All the major national news and art peri-
odicals, press services, and television information services covered the
event, which was also carried by such media as special displays and a
unique poster program sponsored by the List Foundation. Interest in the
new museum brought ten thousand visitors in the first five days of
operation.

Smithsonian Art Commission

At the forty-fifth annual meeting of the Smithsonian Art Commis-
sion, held in Washington on 5 December recommendations were made
for the reappointment of Page Cross, Lloyd Goodrich, Walker Han-
cock, and Bartlett H. Hayes, Jr. for the usual four-year term. The fol-
lowing officers were elected: Charles H. Sawyer, chairman; Walker
Hancock, vice-chairman; and S. Dillon Ripley, secretary. Appointed to
the executive committee were: David E. Finley, chairman; Ogden M.
Pleissner, Henry P. McIlhenny, Charles H. Sawyer (ex officio) , Walker
Hancock (ex officio), and S. Dillon Ripley (ex officio). The resigna-
tion of Gilmore D. Clarke was regretfully accepted.

Under provisions of the revised bylaws, which were approved by the
Smithsonian Board of Regents in January, the following new members
were announced at the spring meeting of the Commission on 3 May:
William A. M. Burden, Regent of the Smithsonian Institution and art
collector; Martin Friedman, Director of the Walker Art Center;
Thomas Howe, Director Emeritus of the Palace of the Legion of Honor;
Mrs. J. Lee Johnson, President of the Board of the Amon Carter Mu-
seum of Western Art; Samuel C. Johnson, business executive, collector,
and patron; and Mrs. Otto L. Spaeth, writer, collector, and patron.
The resignations of Paul Mellon and Stow Wengenroth were also an-
nounced at the special spring meeting.

At both the December and May meetings, Commission members
reviewed works of art which had been submitted during the year and
recommended their acceptance or rejection for the National Collection
of Fine Arts.

The immediate past Chairman of the Commission, Edgar P. Richard-
son, was the honored recipient of the second Smithson Medal, formally
Survey of American Art exhibited in the Lincoln Gallery which served as a
Civil War hospital and was the setting for President Lincoln’s second inaugural
ball and banquet.

presented 3 May at a ceremony in the great hall of the Smithsonian
Institution building.

The Collections

An outstanding gift to the National Collection was that of Emil J.
Arnold, which included works by Jacob Epstein, Louis Eilshemius, Karl
Knaths, and Louise Nevelson. Orrin Wickersham June donated works
by Bierstadt, Kroll, Kensett, and other artists. Following the death of
William Zorach, the artist’s children deposited with NcFA an important
group of sculptures, paintings, and drawings by this artist as a nucleus
by which his life work may be studied in depth.

Received as a transfer from the Harmon Foundation were more than
eleven hundred paintings, watercolors, drawings, and prints by the
Negro artist W. H. Johnson. These were cataloged and photographed
under curator Adelyn D. Breeskin’s direction. Fifty pieces were selected
to be retained by Ncra as a nucleus of the artist’s best works, and the
principal Negro colleges and the Museum of African Art each selected
a dozen of this artist’s works for their art and educational programs.

The most important purchase of the year was the entire surviving
contents of the studio—in Florence, Italy—of the eminent 19th-century
American sculptor Hiram Powers. It comprises 160 pieces of sculpture
and over six thousand letters between the artist and major British and
American personalities—including three United States Presidents—on
Top, left: Hiram Powers (1805-1873), Eve Tempted, modeled 1839; pur-
chased in memory of Ralph Cross Johnson. Top, right: Frederick MacMonnies
(1863-1937), Bacchante and Infant Faun, bronze, 1894. Below, left: Alexander
Archinenko (1887-1964). Kino Salamop, hranze _1QR8+ pift ch Banas fp phi
chased in memory of Ralph Cross Johnson. Top, right: Frederick MacMonnies
(1863-1937), Bacchante and Infant Faun, bronze, 1894. Below, left: Alexander
Archinenko (1887-1964). Kino Salamop, hranze _1QR8+ pift ch Banas fp phi
chased in memory of Ralph Cross Johnson. Top, right: Frederick MacMonnies
(1863-1937), Bacchante and Infant Faun, bronze, 1894. Below, left: Alexander
Archinenko (1887-1964). Kine Salamon, hranze 1983+ wife cf Banners Ach!
