new
baal
pw

oa

Me
ork

dod
=

—
a
* a t

I i j ! }
} } j } } )
| } )
= } } } }
I } J } i
} } } } ) j

val 2 4 ; “i a wa oa 4 of 4 “a “3, ¢

] j be <4 ” veal _ q “\ 4 | aa os BS 33 o 7}

RULE —
C0.

. y ' : yews
e, w . . edt Ne
" F %
5 Dies 2S
.@ < 7s
pote \
a!

INSTITUTIO
Ssaiyuvdd
INSTITUTIC
INSTITUTIC

NVINOSHLIWS SMITHSONIAN

S3JIYVUSIT_LIBR

NVINOSHLINS SaIuVvya
NVINOSHLINS S3IYNWY

NVINOSHLIWS
SMITHSONIAN
SMITHSONIAN

S31NWYGIT LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILOLILSNI NVINOSHLINS S3I¥¥YSIT

S

LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN

NOILNLILSNI
LIBRARIES

INSTITUTION NOILNLILSNI_NVINOSHLINS S3I¥vVuaii LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN
.

SJIYVYRSITLIBRARIE
INSTITUTION NOILNLILSNI
INSTITUTION NOILNLILSNI

saiuvual
INSTITUTION

Sadluvugi

VINOSHLINS S3tuvVuaIT_LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILNLILSNI

NV¥INOSHLIWS
SMITHSONIAN
NYINOSH.LIWS
SMITHSONIAN

NVINOSHLIWS

INSTITUTION NOILNLILSNI LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN

NOILALILSNI
LIBRARIES
NOILALILSNI

NOILNLILSNI

VINOSHLINS SZIMVUEIT LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILNLILSNI NVINOSHLINS SAZINVUSIT

S3IYVYSIT LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN

Salyuvudii
INSTITUTION
INSTITUTION

INSTITUTION

INSTITUTION NOILNLILSNI NYINOSHLINS S3IYVYUSIT_ LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN

NVINOSHLINS S3I1YVUdtIT LIBRARIES

SMITHSONIAN
NVINOSHLINS
SMITHSONIAN
NVINOSHLINS
SMITHSONIAN

IWINOSHLINS S31uVvy LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILOLILSNI

LIBRARIES
NOILNLILSNI
LIBRARIES

SMITHSONIAN_INSTITUTION  NOILNLILSNI_ NVINOSHLINS S31YVYSI7 LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN

INSTITUTION NOILNLILSNI

INSTITUTION NOILNLILSNI

S3alyvyugi

INSTITUTION

Satuvugit_LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILOLILSNI_NVINOSHLINS S31uYyvuaIt

NVINOSHLINS S3IYVYdgit
NVINOSHLINS S3IYVYUGITLIBRARIES

SMITHSONIAN

NVINOSHLIWS
SMITHSONIAN

INSTITUTION NOILNLILSNI LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN

VRIES SMITHSONIAN

ARIES
LILSNI
LILSNI
VRIES

oO wo

= pa)

=)

= 5

me =

z ms

J INSTITUTION NOI
2G 45
Zz \ =

So WSs Na =
zZNQY 8

= >

[?p) ra

LIBRARIES
NOILNLILSNI

INSTITUTION NOILN I

s’saluvyai
INSTITUTION

NVINOSHLIN
N
SMITHSONIAN

S Saiavugit

Yyy,

INSTITUTION NOILAL

NOILALILSNI

w”
Ww
[og
<x
(ne
a
- 4a
LIBRA
= | aoe
S) o
-
=) >
-
= es)
i —
z
wn
=
—
x=.
ep)
fe)
=
>
=

SMITHSONIAN

SaIYVNSIT. LIBRAI

NOILNLILSNI

INSTITUTION NOILNM

GIT LIBRARIES

INSTITUTION

Sil

NVINOSHLIWS
SMITHSONIAN

INSTITUTION NOILA

LILSNI
eC
Sy
ARIES
saluvud
INSTITUTI
INSTITUTIL
saiuvua
INSTITUT!
SaIYVUE
INSTITUTI

Zi
ly
NVINOSHLINS S31uv¥d

NOSHLINS S31YVYEIT_ LIBRARIES NOILNLILSNI Saluvudiq_LIBRARI
n = Kea = (7) = n Zz ee
= < x < = = = Ppiee \S
= Z WN \ z a ra S yf fg = WS
= gE QX S A § 5 GY 2
THSONIAN _INSTITUTION NOILNLILSNI_NVINOSHIINS S3IMVYSIT_LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN _INSTITUTION NOILNLIL
= rie = ae uw az w Fe w
g @ WX = g er =
= ao =— AX oa — x. Wb ttf = o
c < ER NS < a LY 4 a <
S oc S CQ ce S  pedy  S oe
an S 5 a 5 =o “We 3 =
= z a ra ewe ra at ze 4
NOSHLIWS [S31YVYGIT LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILMLILSNI_NVINOSHLINS | S31YVYSIT_LIBRAR
- ’
° = ° a fe) = ° =
AN = w - Uy w = ie] ° ra @
\N = 2 5 1p, 2 Es x Iw = 7
WE : © ML E 2 WE :
S WS = —_ = . a ier _ = — . \ r —
SNS 2 a ere e m Y m YW Gg m
oNS = wo = w = n” heate = w
BSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILALILSNI_ NVINOSHLIWS, Satuvaaia LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILNLIL
8 P * IX
ae = : <x = < = < =
= — _— = —_ — = — Yr :
= \, = z 4 z = z \, ea 4)
8 NAG 8 = 5 : a Sa >
oo YS fo) ooo es (es) =i (2) ae YN SN (2) VY Me
E Vv Z, i Zz a z E Sw 27 ”
= >" = >" = > = os >"
a oe S a Fa 2) 2 ” Zz

NOSHLINS S3I¥YVYSI1T LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILOALILSNI_ NVINOSHLINS sa1uvugi LIBRARI

i) = 7) = ” S no =

: = a wl a w a w a
ce = ne oa & A WG = =

r ft pcs a a ae =< a NS p= =
WY E = a. = = 5 Q's 5
aS = ° = 3 = ° SN = )

— z a 2 =i 2 7 >
ITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILNLILSNI NVINOSHLINS S3IYVYYSIT LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILNLIL
Ply = a ° ies] = «oO 2)

a = i= ee) = tf Seg oD =
5 e = E : a4 = E

Ly fa eX cs = a - Wiy ae E
Mj a z re 2 iM a / a 2
= a) . = wo — 2) =
INOSHLINS SAINVYEIT_LIBRARIES, SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION , NOILOLILSNI_ NVINOSHLINS Sa1NVUdIT_LIBRAR
= S Ss = ZS. = Z SF
=| ew SS a S . SU re ae = N
= = Sees = > 4 Ve Ss > =
= 2 pee a 2 a 2 a

ITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILNLILSNI NVINOSHLINS S3IYVYaIT LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN _INSTITUTION NOILN111

= (77) = Tp) = 72) — ”
z iT = ot z 2
77) Ks uw ul : 2” a
a = 3 AS = = Se es z
: : eWK : 2 2G If 2 :
S te cs *< YQ te c x “iy S Pe
5 za 5 = 5 a “@ 3 z
Za a z Vem z =I 2 a
LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN _INSTITUTION NOILNLILSNI_NVINOSHLINS _S3!IYVYGIT_ LIBRAR
5 BS = tees = oie S a
= Ty =
oO _ LY iss] —_ jee] S ies]
: : 5 by: : = Nya 5 :
e > & It)? = a Se 2
= 2 = YG fi > = 2 NYS c =
n” = aor 7? Ww Y S\N (2)
on Zz m z HA rad a AN ra us
— Yn cand a oe
ITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILALILSNI_ NVINOSHUWS Saluvugi7 LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILMLIJ
Zale on” ; "e Zz‘.
<x + — xt = J <x = =< : =
z X 5 G4j.2z = Ws = = z X =
2 \n i Gi 2 YY, 2 = e Ny :
na “a 8S SS n Wie py ” Yn ys, a B an * QE wn
<= x ESN (eo) YG Cf 7! =< 2) Se id = ae AK AY oO
EN 2,°° 4 E 2 = = E WY’ 2.
AS 5 2 ae aie ze
INOSHLINS S31uvualy SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILNLILSNI_ pod AV a aI T_LIBRAR
= EN ally ta ig Kastan = oa
We = FAM) = = SMR a c

Smithsonian Year 1989 Supplement

Chronology and Appendixes

Smithsonian Institution Press
Washington, D.C.
Smithsonian Year 1989 Supplement

Chronology and Appendixes

Smithsonian Institution Press
Washington, D.C.
en
ey
it

it tae
Peas

Contents

Chronology

Appendix 1.

Appendix 2.

Appendix 3.

Appendix 4.

Appendix 5.

Appendix 6.

Appendix 7.

Appendix 8.

Note. The arrangement of bureau listings within the individual appendixes is not alphabetical but

Members of the Smithsonian Councils, Boards,
Commissions, September 30, 1989

Visitors to Smithsonian Institution Museums in
Fiscal Year 1989

Academic, Research Training, and Internship Appointments
in Fiscal Year 1989

Publications of the Smithsonian Institution Press in
Fiscal Year 1989

Publications of the Staff of the Smithsonian Institution
and Its Subsidiaries in Fiscal Year 1989

The Smithsonian Institution and Its Subsidiaries,
September 30, 1989

Donors to the Smithsonian Institution in Fiscal Year 1989

Contnbuting Members of the Smithsonian Institution in
Fiscal Year 1989

rather follows the organization of the Smithsonian Institution as shown on the next page.

The pages of this Supplement were photomechanically reproduced from typescmpt provided by the

bureaus and the offices.

41

55

D7

133

258

314

416

We
Smithsonian Insttution

Establishment, Board of Regents,
Executive Committee, and the Secretary
Office of the Secretary
Office of the Under Secretary
Office of the Inspector General
Office of the General Counsel
Office of the Treasurer
Research
International Center
Joseph Henry Papers
National Zoological Park
Office of American Studies
Office of Fellowships and Grants
Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory
Smithsonian Environmental Research Center
Smithsonian Institution Archives
Smithsonian Institution Libranes
Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute
Museums
Anacosua Museum
Archives of American Art
Arthur M. Sackler Gallery
Conservation Analytical Laboratory
Cooper-Hewitt Museum
Freer Gallery of Art
Hirshhorm Museum and Sculpture Garden
National Air and Space Museum
National Museum of African Art
National Museum of Amencan Art
National Museum of American History

National Museum of Natural History/National Museum

of Man

National Portrait Gallery

Office of Exhibits Central

Office of Horticulture

Office of Museum Programs

Office of the Registrar

Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition
Service

Public Service
National Demonstration Laboratory for
Interactive Educational Technologies
National Science Resources Center
Office of Elementary and Secondary Education
Office of Folklife Programs
Office of Interdisciplinary Studies
Office of Public Affairs
Office of Telecommunications
Smithsonian Institution Press
Smithsonian Internship Council
Smithsonian Magazine
“Smithsonian World”
University of the Air
Visitor Information and Associates’ Reception
Center
External Affairs
Office of Membership and Development
Women’s Committee of the Smithsonian Associates
Smithsonian National Associate Program
Smithsonian Resident Associate Program
Office of Special Events
Office of Congressional Liaison
Institutional Initiatives
Administration
Administrative and Support Activities
Smithsonian Institution Women’s Council
Under Separate Boards of Trustees
John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts
National Gallery of An
Reading Is Fundamental
Woodrow Wilson International Center for
Scholars
Smithsonian Year 1989
Chronology

The following is a representative selection of Smithsonian events and milestones
during the fiscal year 1988-89.

October

Outreach: The Office of Public Affairs produced a panel exhibit for the National
Indian Education Association conference in Tulsa, Oklahoma. This was the
Institution’s first participation in this national conference and included a

booth and presentation by Secretary Adams and other Smithsonian staff as part of
the program.

October

Visitor: Nigerian artist Sokari Douglas Camp spent three weeks at the museum
(into November) overseeing the installation of the exhibition "Echoes of the
Kalabari: Sculpture by Sokari Douglas Camp."

October

Federal Appropriations: The Institution established a no-year federal account in
the fiscal year 1989 budget to facilitate the development and acquisition of
major scientific instrumentation. Initial funds will go to the development of

the Astrophysical Observatory’s submillimeter telescope and the conversion of the
multiple-mirror telescope.

October

Publication: Smithsonian Institution Equal Opportunity Report, October 1988
was published by the Office of Equal Opportunity as the first in a series of
semiannual reports to the congressional appropriations committees.

October

Publication: Crossroads of Continents, by William Fitzhugh and Aron Crowell,
based on the Smithsonian exhibition of the same name, was published. The book
became the best-selling title of fiscal year 1988-89 for Smithsonian Institution
Press’ University Press Division.

October
Publication: Best Addresses, by James Goode, was published. This book

garnered much critical praise and became the first Smithsonian Institution Press
book to appear on the Washington Post best-seller list.
October

Seminar: The Office of Interdiscipinary Studies presented a seminar called
"Metascience, Ethoscience--What Is Science Anyway?" as part of its "Ways of
Knowing" series of interdisciplinary discussions for staff and fellows.

October

New Design: A new landscape plan with furnishings was developed for the north
front of the Smithsonian Institution "Castle" Building by the Office of
Horticulture.

October

Album Release: Smithsonian/Folkways completed its first album, "Folkways: The
Original Vision.". The album includes original recordings by Woody Guthrie and
Leadbelly from the Columbia Records album "Folkways: A Vision Shared," plus other
selections.

October 1

Milestone: The Office of Public Affairs launched its comprehensive Native
American Media Outreach Program with the arrival of an American Indian intern,
supported by the Smithsonian Educational Outreach Program. The program is
designed to carry information both to and from American Indian communities.

October 1

High School Project: A pilot project, "African Art for High School Students,"
brought together dynamic students from throughout the city for instruction in the
arts and culture of Africa. The ten-week project was funded by a grant from the
Women’s Committee of the Smithsonian Associates.

October 3

Milestone: A ribbon-cutting ceremony marked the official dedication of the
Smithsonian’s first child care center, in which thirty-five children between the
ages of two and five were enrolled. A scholarship pool was established to assist
low-income parents.

October 4-5

Colloquium: The Smithsonian’s Office of Interdisciplinary Studies, together with
the General Foods Fund and Winrock International, sponsored a colloquium ttled
"Completing the Food Chain: Strategies for Combating Hunger and Malnutrition."
The event was held in conjunction with the awarding of the World Food Prize.

October 7
Exhibition: "On the Air: Pioneers of American Broadcasting,” a major exhibition

reflecting the history of early radio and television through portraiture, opened
at the National Portrait Galery.
October 8

Exhibition: The Arthur M. Sackler Gallery’s first acquisition of Japanese art, a
spectacular late eighteenth- to early nineteenth-century ceremonial palanquin,
was placed on public display, along with the gallery’s first acquisition of
Japanese paintings, a pair of seventeenth-century six-panel screens.

October 13

Exhibition: "Portraits of the American Law," the first exhibition of the history
of the American poltical system through portraits, opened at the National
Portrait Gallery.

October 14-29

International Tour: The Cooper-Hewitt Museum conducted an architectural study
tour to historic and contemporary landmarks in Hungary, Austria, Czechoslovakia,
and Germany, providing an in-depth survey of Central European contributions in
architecture and design.

October 18

Acquisition: The Zoo’s Conservation and Research Center in Front Royal,
Virginia, received three male and three female black-footed ferrets. The center
was one of two picked by the Wyoming Game and Fish Department to receive the
nearly extinct ferrets for the purpose of starting a breeding program.

October 24

Appointment: After a wide-ranging search, Dr. Milo C. Beach was named director
of the Arthur M. Sackler Gallery and the Freer Gallery of Art. Dr. Beach, a
distinguished scholar of the painting of India, was acting director of both

museums for a year prior to the appointment. He served as assistant director of
the Sackler Gallery from 1984 to 1987.

October 25

Special Project: The Smithsonian Institution Libraries introduced automated
circulation with borrowers’ cards and bar-coded books. The African Art Branch
was the first to go on line. The automated circulation data base improves
accountability and security and provides accurate data about the use of the
Libraries’ collections.

October 27
Exhibition: "To Color America: Portraits by Winold Reiss," a major exhibition of

images of African Americans and American Incians, as well as some Asians and
Mexicans, opened at the National Portrait Gallery.
October 28

Symposium: "Alberto Giacometti: An International Symposium," at which four
leading American and European scholars explored aspects of the renowned Swiss
sculptor’s life and work, was held at the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden.
The symposium was cosponsored by the Smithsonian Resident Associate Program.

October 31

Reintroduction: Fifteen endangered golden lion tamarins left the National Zoo
for reintroduction into Brazil. This was the fourth release since 1984. To
date, sixty-one tamarins have been returned to the wild.

October 31

Milestone: The New York offices of the Archives of American Art moved to the
newly constructed Equitable Center complex at 1285 Avenue of the Americas. In
celebration of the move, an opening preview of the new spaces was held, along
with an exhibition of original Archives material related to the 1913 Armory

Show.

October 31

Milestone: The Cooper-Hewitt Museum officially welcomed newly appointed director
Dianne H. Pilgrim. Mrs. Pilgrim was formerly chairman of the Department of
Decorative Arts at the Brooklyn Museum in New York.

November

Acquisition: The Walt Disney Company donated six of the earliest drawings of
Mickey Mouse to the National Museum of American History. The drawings are from
the first completely synchronized sound cartoon, "Steamboat Willie,” first shown

in 1928.

November

Milestone: The James Smithson Society launched a new program, the Secretary’s
Circle, to assist with membership recruitment nationwide. This special volunteer
group of members of the Society and of the National Board of Smithsonian
Associates consists of forty-eight representatives throughout the United States.

November

Appointment: Joseph Carper was appointed director of the Smithsonian National
Associate Program.

November
Microfilming Project: Filming started for "Books of the Fairs," with a selection

of some two thousand books from the collections of the Smithsonian Institution
Libraries. The microfilmed set will be accessible to scholars worldwide.
November

Research: An Institute for Theoretical Atomic and Molecular Physics was
established at the Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics in Cambridge,
Massachusetts, under a grant from the National Science Foundation.

November

Agreement: The Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service entered into
an agreement with the USSR Ministry of Culture for the development, organization,
and travel of "Moscow: Treasures and Traditions," an exhibition of two hundred
objects produced by artisans and craftsmen from the sixteenth to early twentieth
centuries. It will be on view in the United States beginning in June 1990.

November 1

Premiere: Discovery Theater’s original production of "Rosa Parks: Speaking Out"
made its debut. The show explored the life of a black woman who helped spark the
civil rights movement in the United States in the 1960s. The production was also
noteworthy for its incorporation of American Sign Language. Fiscal year 1989
represented the highest registration ever achieved by Discovery Theater.

November 2

Lecture: The Smithsonian Institution Libraries presented a public lecture titled
"E pluribus unum. Do the Washington Metropolitan Area Universities Need A
Super-Library?" Paul Vassallo, executive director of the Washington Research
Library Consortium, was the speaker.

November 3

Special Event: A black tie dinner was held in the New York City Equitable Center
complex to honor Archives of American Art Trustee Benjamin D. Holloway, who was
responsible for securing office space for the Archives in this new complex.

Proceeds from the evening benefited the Archives’ New York Regional Center.

November 14

Exhibition and Publication: Co-organized by the Cooper-Hewitt Museum and the
Carnegie Museum of Art in Pittsburgh, "Courts and Colonies: The Wiliam and Mary
Style in Holland, England and America" opened in New York under the gracious
patronage of Her Royal Highness Princess Margriet of the Netherlands. The show
celebrated the 300th anniversary of the Glorious Revolution. Assembled by an
international team of curators, it included more than 250 works of art,

architectural prints, drawings, furniture, ceramics, and silver from the late

seventeenth and early eighteenth centuries.

November 14

Meeting: Andrei Sakharov, renowned Soviet dissident, member of the Presidium of
the USSR Academy of Sciences, and a deputy to the USSR Congress of People’s
Deputies, spoke at a meeting organized by the Kennan Institute for Advanced
Russian Studies of the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars.

Sakharov died December 14, 1989.
November 19-23

Special Event: One hundred and eighty Smithsonian Contributing Members
participated in a weekend program during which they visited selected exhibits
with museum directors and curators. A similar program was held May 3-7.

November 20

Exhibition: "A Jeweler’s Eye: Islamic Arts of the Book" showed 160 works from
the Henri Vever collection of Persian and Indian paintings and manuscripts at the
Arthur M. Sackler Gallery. This was the first public display since its purchase

in 1986.

December

Kudos: Giacometti, by Valerie Fletcher, which is based on a Hirshhorn Museum
and Sculpture Garden exhibition, was called "the most elegant art book of the
year" by National Public Radio.

December

Exhibition: The Smithsonian Resident Associate Program’s first exhibition of its
commissioned art, "RAP Commission Art," opened in the Escalator Galery of the S.
Dillon Ripley Center. The exhibition celebrated special Smithsonian and citywide
events. It featured sixteen lithographs, serigraphs, and posters by many well-

known artists, including Alexander Calder, Gene Davis, Nancy Graves, Sam Gilliam,
Larry Rivers, Robert Indiana, Richard Haas, and Willem De Looper.

December

Grants: The Smithsonian Institution Libraries received two grants from the
Atherton Seidell Endowment Fund. One grant supports publication of the Libraries
lecture, "Alchemical Death and Resurrection: Alchemy in the Age of Newton," by
Professor B. J. T. Dobbs of Northwestern University. The second grant supports
the publication of Books of the Fairs, a comprehensive reference guide, to a
microfilm set of some two thousand books on international expositions.

December

Acquisition: The Henry and Ludmila Shapiro Collection of Soviet Porcelains,
comprising more than 250 examples of tablewares and figural porcelains from the
time of the Russian Revolution to the present, was purchased with assistance from
the Regents’ Collections Acquisitions Fund and matched by funds raised by the
Cooper-Hewitt Museum’s Decorative Arts Association.

December
Special Events: The Anacostia Museum sponsored a month-long series of programs

celebrating Kwanzaa, the African American holiday based on African harvest
celebrations.

Io
December

Dedication: A tree was planted in front of the Arts and Industries Building and
dedicated in memory of Joseph Coudon VII, special assistant to the secretary of
the Smithsonian.

December

Exhibition: The Smithsonian held its twelfth annual "Trees of Christmas"
exhibition.

December 2

Exhibition and Symposium: "Perpetual Motif: The Art of Man Ray" opened at the
National Museum of American Art. This major retrospective of the works of one of
the founding fathers of modernism, a pioneer of both dada and surrealism,

included 268 paintings, works on paper, photographs, films, and objects. In an
all-day symposium, an international panel of scholars, artists, and critics

discussed the importance of these avant-garde movements.

December 5

Endangered Species: Survey findings were released by the Center for Plant
Conservation indicating that more than 250 species of America’s plants may become
extinct in the next one to five years. The announcement was made at a news
conference at the Smithsonian, which conducted the first such survey in 1973.

December 12

Designation: In a small ceremony, the 280-seat Hirshhorn auditorium was named
the Marion and Gustave Ring Auditorium, in acknowlegement of a recent significant
donation of art from the collection of this late Washington, D.C., couple.

December 14

Exhibition: "Gerhard Richter," a major retrospective honoring one of Europe’s
leading avant-garde artists, opened at the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden
in its only East Coast showing. The exhibition was co-organized by the Art
Gallery of Ontario in Toronto and the Museum of Contemporary Art in Chicago.

December 17

Special Event: As a special winter holiday event, Camille Saint-Saens’ "Carnival

of Animals" was performed in the National Zoo’s Education Building Auditorium by
pianists Ann Joseph and Natalie Ross.

December 21

Acquisition: The USSR donated an eight-foot model of a Proton launch vehicle to

the National Air and Space Museum. The Proton rocket has launched all the Soviet
space stations and planetary probes since 1965.

aie
January

Renovation: The Smithsonian Institution Libraries completed the last stages of
its renovation project begun in 1986.

January

New Project: The Smithsonian Institution Press launched a twelve-volume
continuity series, The Smithsonian Guides to Historic America, which was
developed in association with an outside publisher and the National Museum of
American History. It is the first multivolume project undertaken by Smithsonian
Books, the direct mail arm of the Smithsonian Institution Press.

January

Nomination: "“Hoagy Carmichael," an album released by the Recordings Division of
the Smithsonian Institution Press, received two Grammy nominations.

January

Publication: The three-volume study The Great Tzotzil Dictionary of Santo
Domingo Zinacantan, with Grammatical Analysis and Historical Commentary, by
Robert M. Laughlin with John B. Haviland, was published in Smithsonian
Contributions to Anthropology, a federally funded monograph series.

January

Record Release: "American Musical Theater," a boxed set of recordings that
chronicles the development of this distinctively American art form, was released
by Smithsonian Institution Press and received broad national attention.

January

Radio Project: Joining with the Native American Public Broadcasting Consortium,
the Office of Telecommunications received a planning grant from the Corporation
for Public Broadcasting to begin work on a thirteen-part series for the Columbus
Quincentenary to explore this event from the Native American perspective.

January

Special Event: The secretary hosted a dinner at the National Portrait Gallery to
celebrate the inauguration of the Smithsonian Quincentenary Program.

January
Special Event: The secretary and the Smithsonian Cultural Education Committee

hosted a lecture, performance, and reception at the National Museum of Natural
History to celebrate the birthday of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.

12
January

Planning: The Board of Regents approved the Five Year Prospectus, Fiscal Years
1990-1994. The Prospectus calls for several programs: increased emphasis on
identifying and pursuing construction and facilities repair priorities in future
years, further attention to selected programmatic needs in areas such as
scientific instrumentation and other technical forms of support, and the
successful organization and conduct of events surrounding the forthcoming
Columbus Quincentenary commemorations.

January

Special Event: The Presidential Inaugural Ball and the Vice-President’s
pre-inaugural reception were held at the National Air and Space Museum and the
National Museum of American History, respectively. The Office of Protection
Services, in close cooperation with the Secret Service, provided protection

services for both events.

January

Community Training: In its ongoing commitment to work with museum educators and
staff in the planning and collaboration of exhibition-related community programs,

the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service conducted workshops in
Florida, Mississippi, Michigan, and Washington, D.C., in conjunction with the
exhibitions "Field to Factory: Afro-American Migrations, 1915-1940"; "Frank Lloyd
Wright: Preserving an Architectural Heritage"; and "Inside Active Volcanoes:

Kilauea and Mount St. Helens."

January

Publication: Contemporary Indian Tradition: Voices on Culture, Nature, and the
Challenge of Change was published by Smithsonian Institution Press in the United
States and by Oxford University Press in India. The book is based on the 1985
Festival of India symposium, "The Canvas of Culture: Rediscovery of the Past As
Adaptation for the Future."

January 4

Milestone: At approximately 3:15 p.m., the majestic linden tree that dominated
the Enid A. Haupt Garden behind the Smithsonian Castle Building fell, a victim of
old age and high winds.

January 5

Construction: A three-year construction and renovation project began at the
Freer Gallery of Art to expand conservation and collections storage space and
allow passage between the Freer and the Sackler Galleries by connecting
underground gallery space.

January 10
Special Event: The Office of Quincentenary Programs and the Office of the

Secretary jointly hosted a dinner for the Ibero-American cultural attaches to
inaugurate the Smithsonian’s collaboration with Ibero-American embassies.
January 11

Award: The ninth Charles Lang Freer Medal was awarded to Alexander Coburn Soper

Ill of the Institute of Fine Arts, New York University. Dr. Soper is an
educator, writer, and editor widely recognized for his prolific contributions to
the field of Asian art history.

January 15

Exhibition: "Inspiration, 1961-1988," featuring the works of local artists,
opened at the Anacostia Museum. The exhibition included a variety of films and
videos on African American art and artists.

January 16

Event: The Office of the Assistant Secretary for Public Service sponsored the
third Smithsonian observance of the birthday of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Jack
Tchen, director of the Asian Pacific Studies Center, Queens College, and
cofounder of the New York Chinatown History Project was the featured speaker.

January 24

Exhibition and Publication: "American Drawings from the Cooper-Hewitt Museum:
Training the Hand and Eye" began its national tour in New York. The exhibition
presents seventy-five drawings, watercolors, and ou sketches dating from the

1830s to the 1930s. Accompanied by a catalogue of the same title, the exhibition
will travel under the auspices of the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Service
through the fall of 1990.

January 27

Appointment: Rep. Jamie L. Whitten (D-Miss.) was appointed a member of the
Smithsonian Board of Regents.

January 30

Press Conference: Secretary Adams announced a television series focusing on
Latin American culture, which will be the centerpiece of the Institution’s

Columbus Quincentenary program. Mexican author Carlos Fuentes will write and
narrate the programs. The press conference was organized by the Office of Public
Affairs.

February
Space Flight: A high-resolution camera proposed by a team of Smithsonian
scientists and engineers was selected as one of three focal-plane instruments for

the National Aeronautics and Space Administration’s Advanced X-ray Astrophysics
Facility now scheduled for launch in the mid-1990s.

14
February

Service: An international astronomical data base operated by the Smithsonian
Astrophysical Observatory, with support from the National Science Foundation and
the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, became operational. The data
base is for North American users.

February

Reorganization: The new director of the Smithsonian Institution Traveling
Exhibition Service, Anna Cohn, introduced a staff reorganization based on teams
for exhibition organization, interpretation, production, and registration.

Additional support is provided by SITES service groups: publications, public
relations, scheduling, and administration.

February

Collection: The collection of the late John M. and Lucy McLuckie of Coal City,
Ulinois, of more than 2,500 Paleozoic Era specimens of coal-swamp flora and
fauna was donated to the National Museum of Natural History by the McLuckie
children. Most of the material is of exceptional quality and spectacular size,
including several one-of-a-kind and rare imprints.

February

Publication: History of Indian-White Relations, volume 4 in the National
Museum of Natural History’s encyclopedic Handbook of North American Indians,
was published. The book traces the history of Indian and white relations in
North America from Colonial days to the present and includes political, military,
economic, and religious issues.

February

Broadcast: Through the auspices of the Office of Interdisciplinary Studies,

Radio America aired an eight-part series of programs based on the March 1988
symposium "Afro-Americans and the Evolution of a Living Constitution." The
program was distributed to more than three hundred radio stations nationwide and
won an award from the Bicentennial Leadership Project.

February

Radio: Radio commercials were produced by the Office of Public Affairs and
placed on two Washington, D.C., radio stations with predominantly African
American audiences. The ads offered information on the Smithsonian and its Black
History Month activities and, in cooperation with the Metropolitan Transit
Authority, a free subway farecard to visit the Smithsonian.
February 1

Lecture Series: Daniel Buren, the French conceptual artist, discussed his newly
completed Hirshhorn WORKS project and other commissions in the inaugural talk in
a new "Focus" series. Providing a monthly forum for artists and curators

involved with Hirshhorn exhibitions, the "Focus" series later featured artists

Ericka Beckman, Buster Simpson, Mel Chin, Houston Conwill, Keith Sonnier,
Director James T. Demetrion, and Ned Rifkin, chief curator for exhibitions.

February 3

Milestone: The development of a collaborative program in conservation studies
involving Japanese and U.S. scientists was announced by the Smithsonian and the
Japanese Agency for Cultural Affairs.

February 10

Visit: Members of the Donetsk State Opera and Ballet Theater visited the
National Air and Space Museum. Secretary Adams hosted a reception for the troupe
in the Castle building.

February 16

Concert: An evening of Persian music on the tar and setar by Dariush Dolat-shahi
was the first event in a free, public two-month celebration of Persian art and
culture cosponsored by the Arthur M. Sackler Gallery and the Foundation for
Iranian Studies. Also included in the celebration were calligraphy and

illumination workshops, lectures, and an evening of reading from the tenth-

century Persian epic poem, the Shahnama.

February 17

Exhibition: "The Art of Paul Manship" opened at the National Museum of American
Art. The exhibition was illuminated by a book on Manship by National Museum of
American Art curator Harry Rand. The exhibition will tour to seven locations over
the next three years, concluding at the Metropolitan Museum in New York.

February 19

Black History Month: As part of a series of public programs at the National
Museum of American Art, the Howard University Jazz Ensemble presented a concert
that was followed by a lecture on the influence of jazz on twentieth-century art.

The lecture was given by Gwen Everett of the museum staff. Later in the month,
E. Ethelbert Miller, director of the Afro-American Resource Center at Howard
University, gave a reading of his poems, and Dr. Regenia A. Perry, professor of

art history at Virginia Commonwealth University, lectured on masterworks by
Afro-American artists in the museum collection.

16
February 20

Workshop: A field workshop on the “Reconstruction of Precolumbian Subsistence in
the Humid American Tropics" for Latin American archaeologists was held at the
Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute from February 20 through April 2. The
seminar was coordinated by institute archaeologist Richard Cooke. Participants
came from Panama, Colombia, Costa Rica, Ecuador, Honduras, Nicaragua, and
Venezuela.

February 21-24

Conference: The Office of Protection Services hosted the twelfth Annual National
Conference on Museum Security. The conference identified many shared concerns
and problems in the area of museum security and served as a forum for
participants to share solutions to those problems.

February 24

Benefit: The preview reception for USArt, an annual San Francisco exhibition and
sale of eighteenth- to twentieth-century American art, benefited the West Coast
Regional Center of the Archives of American Art.

March

Grants: The Smithsonian Institution Libraries received funds awarded by the
Women’s Committee of the Smithsonian Associates to support two projects:
conservation of a fifteen-volume set of nineteenth-century Indian textile samples
now in the collections of the Cooper-Hewitt Branch and assistance with the
publication of an illustrated lecture, "Alchemical Death and Resurrection:
Alchemy in the Age of Newton," by Professor B. J. T. Dobbs of Northwestern
University.

March

Restoration: The Smithsonian Institution Libraries Book Conservation Laboratory
began restoring James Smithson’s personal library that consists of about one
hundred surviving books of the Institution’s founder.

March

Symposium: "The World of Samuel Beckett" was explored in a three-day symposium
cosponsored by the Smithsonian Resident Associate Program, the Forum of
Psychiatry and the Humanities, the Washington School of Psychiatry, the Forum for
the Psychoanalytic Study of Film, and the Visual Press, University of Maryland.
Highlights of the symposium were the video premieres of "Waiting For Godot" and
"Krapp’s Last Tape," which was recently performed in Paris with the involvement
and imprimatur of Beckett himself.
March

Glasnost: The Smithsonian Resident Associate Program opened the Glasnost Film
Festival series, which featured the American premiere of new Soviet
documentaries. The series was introduced by Leonid Gurevich, chairman,
Documentary Film Section, USSR Union of Cinematographers. Gurevich led a
delegation of Soviet filmmakers and directors to the premiere evening.

March

Publication: Jeremy B. C. Jackson, Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute
marine scientist, and F. K. McKinney published the book Brozoan Evolution,
which presents complete descriptions of major patterns of evolution of bryozoan
colony forms. The book contains much new data on the implications of the
evolutionary changes adopted by bryozoans and will serve as an important
reference source for specialists in the fields of paleontology, marine ecology,
and invertebrate zoology.

March

Season Premiere: "Here at the Smithsonian," the Institution’s series of short
television features, began its seventh season. Nationwide, 175 television
stations subscribe.

March 2

Special Celebration: The National Zoo celebrated its one-hundredth birthday with
a parade through the Zoo grounds, birthday greetings from civic leaders, and the
cutting of a centennial cake by First Lady Barbara Bush.

March 7

Anniversary Celebrations: President George Bush addressed participants at the
twentieth anniversary celebration of the Woodrow Wilson International Center for
Scholars. Other speakers included Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, who was
involved in the original planning of the Center and served as vice chairman of

its Board of Trustees from 1971 to 1976; Secretary of State James Baker,
currently a member of the Board of Trustees; William J. Baroody, Jr., chairman of
the Board of Trustees; and Charles Blitzer, director of the Center.

March 12

Seminar: The Office of Interdisciplinary Studies organized a seminar at the
Library of Congress titled "Patterns in History and the Rise and Fall of
Nations."

March 15

Acquisitions: The opening of the exhibition "Recent Acquisitions: 1986-1988" at
the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden showed for the first time newly
acquired works by Daniel Vladimir Baranoff-Rossine, Ernst Barlach, Sandro Chia,
Lucian Freud, Nancy Graves, Oto Gutfreund, Jasper Johns, Martin Puryear, Yves
Tinguely, and others. Not included in the exhibition, but also acquired during
fiscal year 1989, were important works by Sigmar Polke and Anish Kapoor.

18
March 19

Special Event: Seal Day, with special talks and demonstrations to increase
public awareness of the need to conserve seals, was held at the National Zoo.

March 20

Product Licensing: Smithsonian announced a licensing agreement with Century
Furniture Co. of Hickory, North Carolina, that allows reproductions of
eighteenth- and nineteenth-century furniture selected from the Smithsonian
collections.

March 23-26

Symposium: The Office of Folklife Programs sponsored a symposium titled "Seeds
of Commerce: Cultural and Economic Exchange in the Caribbean." It is the second
in a series of three Quincentenary symposia. Held in Santiago de Cuba under the
auspices of the Casa del Caribe, presentations examined the impact of Colonial
plantation systems on the development of folklife and culture in Caribbean

societies.

March 29-30

Exhibition: "L’Art de Vivre: Decorative Arts and Design in France, 1789-1989"
opened at the Cooper-Hewitt Museum with a preview on March 29 and a public
opening the following day. The landmark exhibition, which celebrates the
bicentennial of the French Revolution, was funded by a generous grant from the
Comite Colbert. It was the first exhibition since 1976 to fill the entire

museum; it was accompanied by a publication of the same title.

April

Program: Nobel] Laureate Dr. James D. Watson spoke to a capacity audience on
"Mapping the Human Genome." The event was sponsored by the Smithsonian Resident
Associate Program.

April

Performances: The Duke Ellington Festival at the National Museum of American
History presented more than thirty-five performances of Ellington’s music by
renowned jazz artists; the festival also included films and a symposium.

April

Video Release: "The Magnificent Whales," the first video production from the
Smithsonian Institution Press, was released through Smithsonian Books.

April

Research: Nearly two decades after the Apollo astronauts returned the first
samples of lunar soil, a Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory geologist has
identified a rock type--cordierite--not previously seen in any of the lunar soil
samples.
April

Instrumentation: A fifth Automatic Photoelectric Telescope was installed at the
Smithsonian’s Whipple Observatory in Arizona, where it will be used in
cooperative programs to observe variable stars.

April

Laboratory: The National Museum of Natural History’s new Laboratory of Molecular
Systematics became fully operational, providing a powerful new thrust to the
museum’s programs in systematic and evolutionary biology and making possible
biochemical and molecular genetic studies of DNA and proteins. The laboratory,
located at the Museum Support Center in Suitland, Maryland, is directed by Dr.
Michael Braun.

April

Installation: The Office of Horticulture installed a recently restored
nineteenth-century fountain titled "Boy With Sword" in the rotunda of the Arts
and Industries Building.

April

Latino Outreach: "Descubra e] Smithsonian," an Office of Telecommunications
pilot series of two-minute capsules for Spanish-language television, premiered at
the National Hispanic Media Conference in Puerto Rico.

April

Endowment: The Global Environmental Endowment Fund was created to support
research, conservation, training, and public education in the field of global
environmental studies at the Smithsonian, including biological diversity, faunal

and floral conservation, protection of endangered species, and biotic adaptation

to global change.

April

Special Event: The assistant secretary for public service and the National
Cancer Institute hosted an awards presentation and reception in the Arts and
Industries Building in observance of National Minority Cancer Awareness Week.

April

Move: The Office of Personnel Administration moved to new quarters at L’Enfant
Plaza.
April

Publication: Global Volcanism 1975-85: The First Decade of Reports from the
Smithsonian Institution’s Scientific Events Alert Network (SEAN) was published.

Edited by National Museum of Natural History researchers Lindsay McClelland, Tom
Simkin, Marjorie Summers, Elizabeth Nielsen, and Thomas C. Stein, this 672-page
book is the most complete record ever assembled of all known volcanic events in
the world--both major and minor--during a ten-year period.

April 5

Grant: The National Portrait Gallery received a grant from the Smithson Society
and Mrs. J. Paul Austin to purchase the Richard Avedon portfoho of seventy-three
photographs.

April 5

Visit: President George Bush and Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir toured
the National Air and Space Museum and later saw "To Fly!" the museum’s ever-
popular IMAX film about the history of flight.

April 6

Exhibition: "The Ceremonial Court," a new permanent exhibition, opened at the
National Museum of American History. The entrance recreates the front corridor
of the White House as it looked during the administration of Theodore Roosevelt.
The exhibition includes a number of original elements from the White House.
Galeries within hold first ladies gowns, presidential artifacts, jewelry,

pottery, and other objects from collections throughout the museum.

April 7

Exhibition: "The Boat Show: Fantastic Vessels, Fictional Voyages" opened at the
Renwick Gallery of the National Museum of American Art. The exhibition included
eighteen three-dimensional objects by fifteen contemporary artists who drew upon

a legacy of maritime imagery and symbolism. The public was invited to watch five
artists assemble their large-scale works from such diverse materials as wood,

glass, metal, hay, and twine.

April 10

Installation: "The Daguerre Monument," Jonathan Scott Hartley’s large sculpture
honoring Louis Daguerre, the French pioneer of photography, was unveiled and
placed on view on the Seventh Street side of the National Portrait Gallery and
the National Museum of American Art.

April 15

Exhibition: "Isamu Noguchi Portrait Sculpture," the first retrospective of a
major Japanese American sculptor, opened at the National Portrait Gallery.
April 16

Donation: The National Air and Space Museum accepted the promise of a supersonic
Concorde airplane from Air France as part of the commemoration of the

bicentennial of the French Revolution. The airplane will become part of the
museum’s collection after it has been retired from active service.

April 19

Exhibition: A full-scale structural and dynamic test vehicle for the Hubble

Space Telescope was installed in the National Air and Space Museum’s Space Hall.
The Space Telescope, the largest orbiting observatory ever built, will provide

deep space images with ten times the clarity and fifty times the light

sensitivity of the best ground-based telescopes.

April 19-22

Hispanic Media Conference: The Office of Public Affairs, in conjunction with the
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Public Service, coordinated the preparation

of an exhibit for the Seventh Annual National Hispanic Media Conference in San
Juan, Puerto Rico, along with a reception and the appearance of Secretary Adams
as a keynote banquet speaker. Twelve hundred reporters attended the conference.
A new bilingual brochure on Latino resources at the Smithsonian, produced by the
Office of Public Affairs, was distributed at the conference.

April 22

International Conference: "New Approaches to Persian Art and Culture" explored
the significant themes that have emerged from recent scholarly research in
Persian art and culture. The day-long event featured five papers and a panel
discussion by internationally known scholars of Persian art, culture, and

languages.

April 27

Exhibition: Organized by the National Museum of American Art, "The Photography
of Invention: American Pictures of the 1980s" opened in celebration of the 150th
anniversary of photography. The exhibition included recent works by ninety

artists (six works were especially created for the show) emphasizing the new
versatility and inventiveness of the medium. The exhibition later traveled to
Chicago and Minneapolis.

April 27

Announcement: The National Air and Space Museum announced plans for a major new
large-format IMAX film on space that will focus on the beauty of the Earth and

the fragility of its environmental systems. "Blue Planet," produced in

cooperation with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, will feature

scenes shot on several space shuttle flights by astronauts trained to use the

IMAX camera.

bh
P
April 28

Award: Dr. Edward J. Nygren, director of the Smith College Museum of Art, was
selected as the first recipient of the Charles C. Eldredge Prize for outstanding
scholarship in American art. Established by the American Art Forum, a patron’s
support organization of the National Museum of American Art, it is given in honor
of the museum’s former director, who founded the forum in 1985.

April 29

Film: The opening of the third Washington, D.C., International Filmfest was held

at the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden. The filmfest was sponsored by the
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Public Service, and the Asian Pacific

American Heritage Committee served as host.

May

Space Flight: The Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory received a four-year,
$17 million contract to build and operate the Submilimeter Wave Astronomy

Satellite, which will study how molecular clouds in the Milky Way collapse to

form stars and planets.

May

Exhibition: "Men and Women: A History of Costume, Gender, and Power" opened at
the National Museum of American History. The exhibition chronicles the history

of costume and fashion in American history while probing the changing--and, in

some cases, unchanging--standards of appearance and behavior for men and women.

May

Appointment: Edgardo Maravi was appointed the first development officer for the
Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute. Mr. Maravi trained as an agronomist at
the Universidad Agraria in Tingo Maria, Peru.

May

Program: National Museum of Natural History Director Frank Talbot hosted a
reception for thirty guests at the Smithsonian’s Barney Studio House to introduce
the museum’s new Director’s Circle, a high-level membership program designed to
introduce individuals to behind-the-scenes activities at the National Museum of
Natural History.

May

Special Event: Secretary Adams and the Ambassador of France hosted a reception
to celebrate the display in the Arts and Industries Building of the historic
documents the Declaration of the Rights of Man and the Constitution of 1791 in
conjunction with the bicentennial of the French Revolution.

PP

ies)
May

Donation: The Smithsonian received five watercolor paintings of orchids by
Barbara Todd Kennedy, donated to the Office of Horticulture by the artist.

May 1

Public Service Announcement: Japanese American actor Pat Morita, who served as
on-camera narrator, appeared with twenty local children in a filmed public

service announcement produced for television by the Office of Public Affairs in

its continuing efforts to reach culturally diverse audiences.

May 2

Video Premiere: “Democracy and Rights: One Citizen’s Challenge," a documentary
for high school students jointly produced by the Office of Interdisciplinary

Studies and the CloseUp Foundation, was screened. The video featured Ernest
Green and Justice William J. Brennan, Jr. and was narrated by Justice Sandra Day
O’Connor. It is based on the 1987 international symposium, "Constitutional

Roots, Rights, and Responsibilities."

May 2-3

Conference: The Forum on Global Change and Our Common Future was cosponsored by
the Smithsonian Institution and the National Academy of Sciences for the purpose

of communicating to the public and policymakers the current scientific

understanding of the broad range of issues related to global environmental

change.

May 3

Grant: The National Portrait Gallery received a grant from the Cafritz
Foundation for the purchase of the portrait of Bishop George Berkeley by John
Smibert.

May 3

Exhibit: The Wetlands/Waterfow] Exhibit opened at the National Zoological Park,
and the Zoo’s Conservation Medal was awarded to Sir Peter Scott. Smithsonian
Secretary Emeritus S. Dillon Ripley presented the medal to Sir Peter, who cut a
ribbon to open the exhibit.

May 4-7

Workshop: The Smithsonian Institution/Man and the Biosphere Program conducted a
demonstration workshop on research methods for biological inventory, cosponsored

by the National Park Service, at the Great Smoky Mountains Biosphere Reserve in
Tennessee.

May 5-6
Symposium: A symposium titled "Violence and Resistance in the Americas: The

Legacy of the Conquest," sponsored by the Office of Quincentenary Programs and
coordinated by the Office of Conference Services, was held.
May 8

Milestone: Secretary Adams signed a Memorandum of Understanding with the Museum
of the American Indian, Heye Foundation, in New York City, under which the Heye
Foundation’s American Indian objects will be transferred to the Smithsonian. The
signing ceremony, part of a major press conference organized by the Office of

Public Affairs, involved American Indian representatives, Smithsonian regents,

members of Congress, and other dignitaries.

May 11-12

Conference: The Office of International Relations, in coordination with the U.S.
Agency for International Development, held a conference titled "Incentives and
Constraints: Macroeconomic Policy Impacts on Natural Resource Utilization."

May 12

Exhibition: The computer revolution in aerospace was the subject of a major new
gallery at the National Air and Space Museum. "Beyond the Limits: Flght Enters
the Computer Age" was organized into seven exhibit areas, each featuring hands-on
interactive computer terminals so that visitors can see for themselves the kinds

of tasks that computers perform.

May 15-19

Special Event: In recognition that a healthy work force is one of the
Smithsonian’s most valuable assets, the Office of Protection Services expanded
the Institution’s occupational health program by initiating employee wellness
activities. During "Fit Week," hundreds of employees participated in such
programs as health assessment, on-site exercise classes and a weight-control
program, and special screening activities (including blood pressure monitoring,
cholesterol screening, and mammography).

May 19

Meeting: In a meeting at the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars,
Bronislaw Geremek discussed Poland’s upcoming elections that were to result in
Eastern Europe’s first noncommunist government since World War II. Geremek, a
medieval historian and former fellow of the Woodrow Wilson Center, was elected to
Poland’s parliament in the June 1989 elections and became Solidarity’s floor

leader in the lower house.

May 21

Grant: The Peter Krueger-Christie’s Fellowship was established for advanced
research in design and decorative arts at the Cooper-Hewitt Museum. Mr. and Mrs.
Harvey Krueger joined with Christie’s to make possible the fellowship in memory

of their son, Peter A. Krueger, former vice-president of French and Continental
Furniture at Christie’s and one-time intern at the Cooper-Hewitt Museum.

ie)
in
May 21

Exhibition: "The Real McCoy: African American Invention and Innovation, 1619-
1930," which traces the important role played by African American inventiveness,
opened at the Anacostia Museum. The exhibition included a wide range of
educational programs focusing on inventiveness and creativity for the museum’s
diverse audiences.

May 23

Milestone: The Cooper-Hewitt Museum purchased the landmark townhouse adjacent to
its current facilities. The building is a major element of the museum’s master

plan to develop a coherent public facility, equipped with a study center for
three-dimensional objects, an auditorium for lectures, conferences, and other

programs, and adequate space for collection storage, a loading dock, and a

receiving area.

May 23

Special Event: In conjunction with Reading Is Fundamental and ABC-TV’s "Good
Morning America" show, the National Zoological Park provided support for a
special broadcast to encourage literacy. First Lady Barbara Bush took part in
the program, which was aired from the Zoo’s Education Building Auditorium.

May 24-June 7

Expedition: A Smithsonian Research Expedition titled "Documenting Our Veterans’
Memorials" was conducted in Washington, D.C., to capture on film the preparation,
commemoration, and aftermath of Memorial Day for the Smithsonian’s photographic
archives and for the National Museum of American History’s Division of Armed
Forces.

May 25

Special Event: Friends of the National Zoo’s ZooFari, a gala evening event to
raise funds for the Zoo’s Theodore H. Reed Animal Acquisition Fund, attracted
hundreds of participants. The fund supports the propagation of rare and
endangered species at the National Zoo.

June

Publication: A book, The Bishop’s Boys: A Life of Wilbur and Onille Wright,

written by Tom D. Crouch, chairman of the Department of Social and Cultural
History at the National Museum of American History, was published by W. W. Norton
and Company.

June

Lecture: Internationally recognized author, lecturer, teacher, photographer, and
scholar Beaumont Newhall spoke on "The Birth of Photography" in an evening
marking the 150th anniversary of photography and complementing the National
Gallery of Art exhibition "On the Art of Fixing a Shadow: 150 Years of
Photography." The evening was cosponsored by the Smithsonian Resident Associate
Program.
June

Exhibition: "Great American Comics: 100 Years of Cartoon Art" received generous
funding from King Features’ Syndicate. In the centennial year of American comic
strips, this exhibition, which will travel, examines the social and political

impact and artistic heritage of cartoons in our culture.

June

Special Event: National Museum of Natural History anthropologist Ives Goddard
and colleague Dr. Kathleen Bragdon presented copies of their newly published
study, "Native Writings in the Massachusett Language" (American Philosophical
Society), to representatives of the Wampanoag Tribal Councils of Mashpee and Gay
Head (Massachusetts). This two-volume work contains the first translation ever
made of the body of known surviving manuscripts written by Christian Indians in
southeastern Massachusetts during the Colonial period.

June

Research: Speckle interferometry observations of Supernova 1987A by a
Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory team revealed a displacement in the
supernova’s center of brightness with respect to its suspected pre-explosion
progenitor star. This suggests that the star may have been part of a binary
system and that one component survived the massive explosion.

June

Program: The National Museum of Natural History added a major component to its
biodiversity program by taking over administrative responsibility for the Minimum
Critical Size of Ecosystems project from the World Wildlife Fund, which initiated

it. The project, located in Manaus, Brazil, has made a significant contribution

to tropical forest conservation by demonstrating that species disappear from a

land area in inverse relation to its size.

June

Phone System: To handle the Institution’s half million annual public inquiries
more efficiently, a new phone system was installed in the Visitor Information and
Associates’ Reception Center.

June

Startup: The Office of Folklife Programs initiated a startup of the on-demand
cassette fulfillment distribution of Folkways titles not commercially available.

June
Publication: The Office of Interdisciplinary Studies’ brochure titled "The

Wholeness of Knowledge," detailing the history and purpose of the office, was
published.
June

Publication: "Science Education: A Challenge for Excellence in America’s
Future," proceedings of a May 1988 colloquium organized by the Office of
Interdisciplinary Studies and the Achievement Rewards for College Scientists
Foundation, was published.

June

New Unit: Smithsonian Institution Libraries Director Barbara J. Smith approved
an earlier agreement between John R. Kinard and Vija L. Karklins that stated that
the Anacostia Museum Library be included in the Smithsonian Institution

Libraries’ History and Art Unit. The library collections will be incorporated in

the Museum of American History Branch of the Smithsonian Institution Libraries.

June 1

Television Series: At a ceremony presided over by Luis Gomez-Acebo, Duque de
Badajoz, and the Smithsonian Institution’s representative in Spain, the Sociedad
General de Television, S.A., the Sociedad Estatal para la Ejecucion de Programas
del Quinto Centenario, and the Smithsonian Institution signed an agreement to
produce a six-part, bilingual television series, "The Buried Mirror."

June 1

Dedication: The Charles McC. Mathias Laboratory at the Smithsonian Environmental
Research Center was dedicated to the former Maryland senator in recognition of

his very active role in Chesapeake Bay environmental issues.

June 3

Exhibition: The exhibition "Caribbean Festival Arts," organized by the St. Louis
Art Museum, opened to the public in the International Gallery.

June 4

Book Signing: Alice Walker, author of The Color Purple and The Temple of My
Familiar, gave a Smithsonian Resident Associate Program lecture and appeared
later at a book signing reception.

June 4

Program: The fourteenth annual High School Summer Intern Program began its first
session under the auspices of the Office of Elementary and Secondary Education.
Each summer, this program brings forty high school graduates from around the
country to the Institution for a five-week learning/service experience.

June 5

Family Days: The first of four family days planned to support the "Caribbean
Festival Arts" exhibition was held. These events had broad appeal and involved
community participation from local West Indian communities. Each event attracted
an audience of approximately 10,000. Other family days were held on July 8,
August 5, and September 2.

28
June 6

Tribute: In a small ceremony, the reflecting pool of the Hirshhorn Museum and
Sculpture Garden was named the Jacob and Charlotte Lehrman Foundation Pool in
acknowledgement of a generous grant to the museum from that foundation.

June 9

Lecture: The first offering in the Joseph Fletcher, Jr.. Lecture Series was

delivered by Glenn D. Lowry, curator of Near Eastern art at the Arthur M. Sackler
Gallery and the Freer Gallery of Art. The three-part series focused on various

aspects of Persian art and architecture and was held to coincide with the Sackler
Gallery exhibition "Timur and the Princely Vision: Persian Art and Culture in

the Fifteenth Century." The remaining two lectures in the series were delivered

by John Woods of the University of Chicago and Lisa Golumbek of the Royal Ontario
Museum in Toronto, Canada.

June 9

Workshop: A workshop for bureau office directors and central managers was held
to identify ways to improve the planning process at the Smithsonian. The

workshop was sponsored by the Office of Planning and Budget and conducted by the
National Center for Higher Educational Management Systems.

June 13

Special Event: The second annual Smithsonian Garden Party honoring the new
members of the Board of Regents, Vice President Quayle and Rep. Jamie Whitten,
and members of the 101st Congress was held in the Enid A. Haupt Garden.

June 14-17

Triennial Meeting: The Museum of African Art hosted the Eighth Triennial
Symposium on African Art organized by the Arts Council of the African Studies
Association and sponsored by ACASA, Shel Companies Foundation, Inc., the
National Museum of African Art, and the National Museum of Natural History.

June 15

Symposium: In conjunction with the Cooper-Hewitt Museum’s exhibition "L’Art de
Vivre," a symposium titled "A Taste for History: Furnishings and Fashion in
19th-Century France" was held. The all-day symposium included three scholarly
lectures about the evolution of the interior, the art of the table, and the art

of fashion during the period, followed by a roundtable discussion with curators,
editors, and important French design industry executives.

June 16

Exhibition: “Aeropittura Futurista: Images of Flight in Italian Art from 1913

to 1942" opened at the National Air and Space Museum. The exhibition emphasized
a style of futurism that embraced technology as its subject matter and glorified

the airplane as a symbol of the modern age. Some seventy works of art and forty
documents were on display for the three-month exhibition.
June 16

Summer Hours: Extended hours for the National Museum of American History, the
National Museum of Natural History, and the National Air and Space Museum began.
This year, they included an extra half-hour in the morning, as well as evening

hours. Hours were 9:30 a.m. to 7:30 p.m. and continued through Labor Day,
September 4.

June 17

Celebration: The Anacostia Museum held a "Juneteenth Day" celebration
commemorating the day that Texan slaves first learned of their emancipation. The
holiday observance, traditionally held on June 19, was the occasion for quilting
demonstrations, storytelling, musical performances, and the display of Texan folk
art at the museum.

June 20

Distinguished Guest: Wang Yani, the 14-year-old Chinese girl who became the
youngest artist ever to have a one-person exhibition at the Smithsonian, traveled
from China for the opening of "Yani: The Brush of Innocence" at the Arthur M.
Sackler Gallery. At the press preview held on this day, she demonstrated her
painting to an enthusiastic audience of representatives from the print and
electronic media. The exhibition drew twice as many visitors to the gallery
during July and August as it had had the previous year.

June 21

Exhibition: "Robert Moskowitz," the first museum retrospective for this
54-year-old artist who has been increasingly recognized for his distinct
contribution to contemporary American painting opened its national tour at the
Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden.

June 23-27; June 30-July 4

Festival of American Folklife: The twenty-third annual Festival of American
Folklife featured Hawai'i folklife; oral traditions and crafts of communities in
France and French-speaking North America; access to cultural, social, and natural
resources among American Indians; and cultural encounters throughout the
Caribbean, highlighting Haiti, Jamaica, Puerto Rico, and Cuba.

June 22

Open House: An all-day centennial community celebration at the National Zoo was
held. Activities included the opening of a special exhibit of historical Zoo
photographs, performances by musical groups, animal demonstrations, and animal
keeper talks and tours.

June 24
Special Event: As part of the Festival of American Folklife, the Hawai’i program
presented a pa’u parade featuring flower-adorned horses and riders. The parade

was led by Governor and Mrs. John Waihee of Hawai’i and Representative David K.
Akaka.

30
June 26

Seminars: The Office of Elementary and Secondary Education began its 1989 series
of summer seminars for teachers. This year the program included eight seminars
for local teachers from the Washington, D.C., area and one graduate course for
teachers around the United States.

June 29-July 13

Institute: The Office of Folklife Programs’ Folklore Summer Institute for
Community Scholars hosted thirteen individuals, who have been involved in
collecting, preserving, and presenting folklore in their home communities, for
training and information exchange. The participants represented a variety of
cultural and geographic regions of the United States.

July

Award: Dr. Bernice Johnson Reagon, curator in the Division of Community Life at
the National Museum of American History, received a $275,000 fellowship to pursue
work of her choice from the John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation.

July

Expansion: Smithsonian Institution Press expanded its international distribution
capabilities significantly by joining a marketing consortium with university

presses from Harvard, Yale, MIT, the Brookings Institution, and the University of
Chicago.

July

New Directions: The release of the book titled Just Before Jazz: Black Musical
Theater in New York, 1890-1915 signals the expansion of the Smithsonian
Institution Press’ list-building efforts in books about music and American
cultural history.

July

Program: The National Museum of Natural History’s Office of Education began a
program that brings storytellers, musicians, dancers, and artisans to the museum
setting from tribes throughout the United States and Canada to demonstrate the
cultural heritage of Native Americans that is still thriving in many different

forms throughout North America. Among the participants was Vanessa Morgan, an
Oklahoma Kiowa, whose skill at bead working made her a 1989 recipient of a
National Heritage Award from the Folk Art Program of the National Endowment for
the Arts.

July

Workshop: The first joint Mexican and American workshop on the taxonomy and
natural history of the bees of Mexico was held in Mexico. Organized by Mexican
and United States scientists with funding provided by the Smithsonian’s Office of
International Relations through its International Exchanges Program, the workshop
was the outgrowth of a cooperative program on the bees of Mexico.
July and September

Acquisition: Two important collections of extraordinary utilitarian objects
primarily from East and Southern Africa were acquired by the Museum of African
Art.

July 2

Milestone: Alice Burnette was named assistant secretary for institutional
initiatives, the first woman to be appointed as an assistant secretary in the
Institution’s senior management staff.

July 2

Workshop: The Smithsonian Institution/Man and the Biosphere Program, in
cooperation with Liga de Defensa del Medio Ambiente, the Academia de Ciencias
Naturales, and the Universidad Mayor de San Andres, conducted the program’s third
annual workshop in Bolivia titled "Conservation of Natural Resources and the
Management of Protected Areas, Flora, and Fauna in Bolivia." The program
continued to August 1.

July 3

Exhibition: The Smithsonian Institution Libraries opened an exhibition on
stratigraphy titled "Stratigraphy’s Golden Age: Murchison and his Silurian

System." The exhibition was curated by Ellen B. Wells and commemorated the 150th
anniversary of a landmark in stratigraphy. The show, which was accompanied by an
illustrated brochure, was coordinated with the 28th International Geological

Congress, which met in Washington, D.C.

July 5

Appointment: Barbara J. Smith was appointed director of the Smithsonian
Institution Libraries. Dr. Smith was assistant dean of libraries at Pennsylvania
State University. She succeeds Robert Maloy, who left the Smithsonian
Institution Libraries in October 1987.

July 6

Exhibition: "Inside Active Volcanoes: Kilauea and Mount St. Helens" opened and
drew 514,979 visitors during its twelve-week run, the highest attendance ever
recorded for a National Museum of Natural History Evans Gallery exhibition. The
exhibition will travel for three years to eleven major cities.

July 6

Research Grant: The National Museum of American Art received $850,000 from the
Pew Charitable Trusts in Philadelphia for a national inventory and condition
assessment of American sculpture. The money was awarded jointly to the projects
cosponsor, the National Institute for the Conservation of Cultural Property, in
Washington, D.C.
July 10-22

Program: The National Science Resources Center launched its first Elementary
Science Leadership Institute in the S. Dillon Ripley Center with forty-five
representatives from fifteen of the largest school districts nationwide.

Participants attended workshops on the benefits of hands-on science learning and
formulated plans to implement improvements in their local elementary science
education programs.

July 11

Reception: The Smithsonian Institution Libraries cohosted a reception with the
History of Earth Sciences Society for attendees of the 28th International
Geological Congress in the Dibner Library of the History of Science and
Technology.

July 14-16

Regional Event: The Smithsonian National Associate Lecture and Seminar Program
presented a weekend of lectures and workshops in conjunction with the California
Museum of Science and Industry, Los Angeles, California, to celebrate the
twentieth anniversary of the Apollo 11 moon landing. Staff from the National Air
and Space Museum presented programs, including "The History of Manned Space
Flight" and "A Spacecraft Tour of the Solar System."

July 20

Special Event: The National Air and Space Museum, along with the National
Aeronautics and Space Administration, celebrated the twentieth anniversary of the
first manned landing on the moon. A morning public ceremony held on the steps of
the museum included participation by President George Bush, Vice President Dan
Quayle, and the Apollo 11 crew. A free lunar landing party held later that

evening attracted thousands of area residents and visitors and featured films,

tours, education programs, and other special activities. The Office of

Protection Services, in close cooperation with the Secret Service, the U.S. Park
Police, and local law enforcement authorities, provided protection services for

the celebration.

July 27-28

Advisory Council: The Office of Elementary and Secondary Education convened the
third annual meeting of the Smithsonian Advisory Council on Education. Appointed
by the secretary, the council is charged with the task of helping to stimulate

and shape Smithsonian-wide priorities and directions in education.

August
Search Committee: A search committee, chaired by Smithsonian Undersecretary Dean

Anderson, was announced to nominate a director for the proposed National Museum
of the American Indian.
August

Research: An X-ray instrument called the Large Area Modular Array of Reflectors
developed at the Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics was selected as one
of fourteen scientific experiments to be attached to the Space Station during its
assembly.

August

Information System: Phase three of the Visitor Information and Associates’
Reception Center’s exterior graphic information system--the redesign and
refurbishment of the Mall general information directories (a joint project of the
Smithsonian Institution and the National Park Service)--was completed.

August

Awards: Four Golden Eagle (first place) awards from the Council on International
Non-theatrical Events were announced for Smithsonian productions. The winners
were "Magnificent Voyagers," "Reel Jungle" ("Tropical Rainforest" exhibit), "From
Reliable Sources," and "The Smithsonian Institution," an interactive video for

the Visitor Information Center. "Magnificent Voyagers" went on to represent the
United States in the International Maritime Festival in Toulon, France. A record
number of awards and citations from the broadcast and film industry were received
during the year by the Office of Telecommunications.

August

Publication: Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute entomologist David W.
Roubik published Ecology and Natural History of Tropical Bees, which presents a
synthesis of the ecology, natural history, and evolution of tropical bees around
the world, including their interaction with human populations.

August 10

Symposium: “Art and Controversy: Historical Perspectives, Current Issues," a
four-speaker program that offered diverse opinions and discussions of this timely
topic, was held at the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden. The event,
cosponsored by the Washington Project for the Arts, was moderated by Richard
Andrews, former director of the Visual Arts Program of the National Endowment for
the Arts.

August 15

Liaison: The Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute established a new liaison
office in the Arts and Industries Building in order to provide more effective and
timely interaction between the institute and the Smithsonian’s Washington

offices.
August 15-22

Expedition: A Smithsonian Research Expedition, "The Legacy of the Horse in Crow
Culture," was conducted at the annual Crow Fair in Billings, Montana. Team
members helped document the fair through written descriptions and photographs.
The information gathered will be used in the National Museum of Natural History’s
upcoming "Seeds of Change” exhibition.

August 18

Exhibition: The first professionally designed and produced exhibition of the
Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, "Parting the Green Curtain: The
Evolution of Tropical Biology in Panama," opened at the National Museum of
Natural History. The bilingual exhibition, in Spanish and English, then traveled
to Panama, where it was installed in the new Tupper Auditorium.

August 19

Meeting: Secretary Adams met in Santa Fe, New Mexico, with leaders of American
Indian communities, museum professionals, and collectors of Native American art
to share perspectives on the proposed National Museum of the American Indian.

August 23

Appointment: Dr. Forrest McGill, a specialist in the art of South and Southeast
Asia, was named assistant director of the Arthur M. Sackler Gallery. Dr. McGill
came to the Smithsonian from his post as director of the Museum of Art and
Archaeology at the University of Missouri in Columbia.

August 30

Appointment: Dr. Elizabeth Broun was selected as director of the National Museum
of American Art. An American art scholar, Broun served as assistant director and
chief curator at the museum from 1983 until August 1988, when she was appointed
acting director following the resignation of Dr. Charles C. Eldredge.

September

Research: The highest resolution X-ray images of a solar flare and the solar
corona ever obtained were made by a Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory/IBM
telescope aboard a National Aeronautics and Space Administration sounding rocket
launched from White Sands Missile Range in New Mexico.

September

Education: An activity book for high school students containing some two dozen
hands-on experiments drawn from astronomy was developed at the Harvard-
Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics by Project STAR in cooperation with staff
science advisors.
September

Continuing Project: Progress continued on the Visitor Information and
Associates’ Reception Center exterior graphic information system with the
installation of out-of-doors directional signs to the Anacostia Museum.

September

Transfer: The Intern, Orientation, and Registration Program was transferred from
the Visitor Information and Associates’ Reception Center to the Office of Museum
Programs.

September

Program: The National Science Resources Center entered into a working
partnership with twenty-one public schools in twelve districts around the country
(plus the Department of Defense Dependents’ School, Clark Air Base, in the
Philippines) to field-test elementary science curriculum units under development
by the Science and Technology for Children project.

September

Publication: Hirshhom WORKS 88 was published by the Hirshhorn Museum and
Sculpture Garden, launching what is hoped to be an ongoing series of yearbooks on
WORKS projects. Included were essays and photographs on the four site-specific
projects by Sol LeWitt, Kate Ericson/Mel Ziegler, Vernon Fisher, and Krzysztof
Wodiczko, respectively, executed between November 1987 and October 1988.

September

Film Series: The Museum of African Art launched the premiere of a thirteen-part
film series, "Things Fall Apart," based on the highly acclaimed novel by Nigerian
author Chinua Achebe. Lectures featuring prominent black scholars were offered
in conjunction with the film.

September

Publication: The Office of Interdisciplinary Studies completed a publication
called Completing the Food Chain: Strategies for Combating Hunger and
Malnutrition, Neil G. Kotler and Paula M. Hirschoff, editors. The book is
second in a series of world food colloquia publications.

September

Milestone: The Office of Public Affairs prepared its first extensive publicity
campaign in Spanish for Hispanic Heritage Month, including both newspaper and
radio advertisements.

September

Videodisc: "The Smithsonian Institution,” a state-of-the-art interactive video,

was completed for the new Smithsonian Information Center to provide visitors with

detailed information about the museums, activities for children, special tours,
and restaurants.

36
September

Film: "The Earth in Our Hands,” a one-hour film narrated by Robert Redford for
national broadcast, was completed and premiered at the Second International
Conference on Ecological Closed Systems in Krasnoyarsk, USSR.

September

System: The Office of Planning and Budget, in concert with other offices,
completed a requirements statement, design, and initial development of the new
personnel cost projection system. Software development was completed and an
employee training manual was released. Two orientation sessions were held for
bureau and office staff throughout the Institution.

September

Opening: The Office of Horticulture participated in the opening of the Louis
Comfort Tiffany exhibition at the Renwick Gallery. Plant arrangements were
planned to reflect those shown in Tiffany’s glass creations and to establish the
feeling of his home and the period of his work.

September

Acquisition: The Office of Horticulture purchased the important J. W. Fiske
fountain, known as Centennial Fountain, with figures of children under an
umbrella.

September 1

Birth: Giant Panda Ling-Ling gave birth to an undersized cub at the National
Zoo. The cub was retrieved from its mother, who was being treated for a
urinary/genital tract infection. Zoo veterinarians administered antibiotics and
immune globulins to the cub to help it fight infection. Unfortunately, the cub
died forty hours after birth.

September 3-17

Workshop: The Smithsonian Institution/Man and the Biosphere Program conducted
its first training workshop in Ecuador. The lead coordinator in Ecuador was the
Charles Darwin Foundation.

September 7

Acquisition: The National Museum of American Art acquired Louis Comfort
Tiffany’s "Market Day Outside the Walls of Tangier," a gift from the American Art
Forum. One of the artist’s most ambitious combinations of exotic ancedote,
ethnographic detail, and sensuous color, this painting helped establish Tiffany’s
reputation in 1873 as a skilled observer of the Near East.
September 8

Conversation with Artists: Four artists whose works were included in the
National Museum of American Art exhibition "The Patricia and Phillip Frost
Collection: American Abstraction 1930-1945" discussed the development of
American abstraction and its birth in a time of economic chaos, international
upheaval, and the cataclysm of world war.

September 12

Press Conference: The Office of Public Affairs participated in the production of

a press conference held at the Capitol with Secretary Adams, Senator Daniel
Inouye, and Representative Ben Nighthorse Campbell on the Smithsonian’s policy on
repatriation of American Indian skeletal remains.

September 13-15

Workshop: The Office of Environmental Management: and Safety, in coordination
with the Smithsonian’s Office of Museum Programs, conducted a three-day workshop
geared specifically to small museums and other educational and cultural

institutions located worldwide. This unique workshop addressed program
development and problem-solving in the areas of fire protection, disaster

planning, occupational safety and health, and environmental management.

September 14-15

Conference: The Office of External Affairs organized a conference titled "The
Global Environment: Are We Overreacting?" to present an overview of global
environmental issues to the leadership of the U.S. news media and to explore the
roles of the news media and scientists in interpreting and disseminating
environmental information to the general public.

September 15

Dialogue: The Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars collaborated with
the project office for the "Caribbean Festival Arts" exhibition to present the

first of four scholarly dialogues titled "The Importance of Carnival in Caribbean
Culture."

September 16

Seminar: One hundred one Associates participating in the Smithsonian Associates
Travel Program’s eleventh annual Oxford/Smithsonian Seminar, led by Smithsonian
Regent Jeannine Smith Clark, departed for England.

September 16

Demonstration: Five nationally recognized furniture makers demonstrated their

skills and special techniques in an all-day Smithsonian Resident Associate
Program seminar made possible by a grant from the Hechinger Foundation.

38
September 19

Seminar Series: The Office of Interdisciplinary Studies presented a seminar,
"Oceans, Icons, and Genes: Ownership at Issue," as part of the "Ways of Knowing"
series.

September 20

Publication: The Archives of American Art published The Papers of African
American Artists, which describes the Archives’ holdings of personal papers,
sketchbooks, scrapbooks, and tape-recorded interviews of African American
artists. The Archives holds papers of more than fifty African American artists
dating from the late nineteenth century to the present.

September 20

Celebration: In celebration of Hispanic Heritage Month, the Smithsonian Resident

Associate Program hosted the Washington premiere of one of of the most respected
bands from Central America, Yolocamba I Ta, who performed for an audience that
included many members of the Hispanic community of Washington, D.C.

September 22-23

Special Event: The James Smithson Society’s annual weekend was held in
conjunction with the fal meeting of the National Board of the Smithsonian
Associates. Gay F. Wray, chairman of the National Board, announced the projects
recelving 1989 Society grants and awarded the Society’s Founder Medal to Mercer
Ellington for his donation of the Duke Ellington Collection to the National
Museum of American History.

September 25

Acquisition: A bust of President George Bush, sculpted by Marc Mellon, was
unveiled in the National Portrait Gallery’s Hall of Presidents by Mrs. Vincent
Melzac, who, with her husband, donated the bust to the gallery.

September 27

Special Event: The New England Regional Center of the Archives of American Art
held an open house in the early nineteenth-century home that houses the

Archives’s Boston office. Tom L. Freudenheim, Smithsonian assistant secretary

for museums, spoke at a seminar titled "The Impact of the Archives of American
Art on the American Art World."

September 28
Film Series: The Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden’s highly acclaimed free

film program began the 1989-1990 season with screenings of art documentaries,
independent or experimental productions, and animated shorts.
September 28

Lecture and Film Series: In preparation for a major exhibition and book on
strategic bombing, the National Air and Space Museum launched a 16-month series
of public lectures, symposia, and films--all dedicated to exploring the history

and legacy of strategic bombing. The first speaker in the series was Phillip
Morrison, a physicist on the Manhattan Project and a member of the first
scientific team to visit the bombed city of Hiroshima in 1945.

September 29

Symposium: Cooper-Hewitt staff led a symposium sponsored by the Decorative Arts
Association of the Cooper-Hewitt Museum and titled "Explorations: Interior

Fabrics of the 1990s," which included lectures and a panel discussion by five
internationally recognized designers, architects, and experts--Jack Lenor Larsen,
Murray Bartlett, Hugh Hardy, Patricia Conway, and Pierre Paulin. The subject of
the discussion was the role of fabrics in the design of public and private

interiors in terms of issues and trends for the coming decade.

September 29

Exhibitions: Two new exhibitions in the Sea-Air Gallery of the National Air and

Space Museum opened--"Carrier War in the Pacific" and "Squadron Ready Room." The
first chronicles the six major carrier battles fought by the United States and

Imperial Japanese navies during World War I. The second simulates a ready room
for flight crews abroad an aircraft carrier.

September 30

Special Event: As part of an ongoing effort to strengthen ties between museums

and schools across the United States, the Office of Elementary and Secondary
Education conducted a Regional Workshop in Amarillo, Texas. The workshop brought
together representatives from 33 museums, historic sites, and nature centers, as

well as 450 teachers from the area.

40
Appendix I

Members of the Smithsonian Councils, Boards, and Commissions, September 30, 1989

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION BOARD OF REGENTS

Honorable William H. Rehnquist, The Chief Justice of the United States,
Chancellor, ex officio

Honorable J. Danforth Quayle, the Vice President of the United States,
ex OLETCHO

Honorable E. J. (Jake) Garn, Senator from Utah
Honorable Daniel P. Moynihan, Senator from New York
Honorable James R. Sasser, Senator from Tennessee

Honorable Silvio 0. Conte, Representative from Massachusetts
Honorable Norman Y. Mineta, Representative from California
Honorable Jamie L. Whitten, Representative from Mississippi

Honorable David C. Acheson, Citizen of the District of Columbia
Honorable Anne L. Armstrong, Citizen of Texas

Dr. William G. Bowen, Citizen of New Jersey

Mrs. Jeannine Smith Clark, Citizen of the District of Columbia
Honorable A. Leon Higginbotham, Jr., Citizen of Pennsylvania
Mr. Samuel C. Johnson, Citizen of Wisconsin

Mr. Barnabas McHenry, Citizen of New York

Vacancy

Vacancy

SMITHSONIAN COUNCIL

Neil Harris Miguel Leon-Portilla
Chairman Robert M. May
Johnnetta B. Cole Matthew S. Meselson

Michael A. Dorris
Martin Friedman
Paul Fussell
Robert Garfias
Dorothy Gilliam
James W. Head, III
John P. Holdren
Thomas P. Hughes
Alice S. Ilchman

Sidney W. Mintz
Frederick W. Mote
David F. Musto
Jaroslav J. Pelikan
Peter H. Raven
Jaime E. Rodriguez
Alan Shestack

Emily D. T. Vermeule
Thomas G. Wicker

41
SMITHSONIAN CULTURAL EDUCATION COMMITTEE

Mr. Frank Newton, Chairperson
Dr. Margaret Batchelor-White, Co-Chairperson

Ms. Jo Allyn Archambault Mr. Mike M. Masoaka

Mrs. Peggy Cooper Cafritz Mrs. Elizabeth Fagg Olds
Mr. James (Biff) Carter Hon. Ricardo M. Urbina
Mrs. Robert Reed Gray Mr. W. Ricahrd West, Jr.
Ms. Suzan Harjo Ms. Patricia Zell

Mrs. Esther G. Kee

JOINT COMMITTEE OF THE SPONSORING INSTITUTIONS OF THE PAPERS OF
JOSEPH HENRY

Robert McC. Adams Robert S. Hoffmann
Whitfield J.. Bell,= Jr. David J. E. Saumweber
Charles C. Gillispie Frederick Seitz, Chair
Mrs.

Mr.

Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.

Mr.

Mrs.

ARCHIVES OF AMERICAN ART BOARD OF TRUSTEES

Otto L. Spaeth, Chairman Emeritus
Richard J. Schwartz, President
Robert F. Shapiro, Vice President
Francis de Marneffe, Vice President

John N. Rosekrans, Jr., Vice President

Abbott K. Schlain, Treasurer

Dana M. Raymond, Secretary

Joel S. Ehrenkranz, Officer-at-Large
Miss Julienne M. Michel, Officer-at-Large
Keith S. Wellin, Honorary Officer

Miss Caroline R. Alexander

. Max N. Berry

Eli Broad
Ivan Chermayeff
Gilbert S. Edelson

. Ahmet M. Ertegun
. Arthur A. Feder
. Miles Q. Fiterman

Daniel Fraad
Bernard A. Greenberg

- Hugh Halff, Jr.

Benjamin D. Holloway
John K. Howat
Helen Jessup

Founding Trustees

. Lawrence A. Fleischman
. Edgar P. Richardson
. Edsel B. Ford

Ex OffTCiO

Robert McC. Adams

. Milton Brown

Tom L. Freudenheim
Harley P. Holden

Mrs.

Mr.

Mrs.
. Alan E. Schwartz
. A. Alfred Taubman

Dr.
Mie

Mrs.

Henry C. Johnson
Gilbert H. Kinney

. Alan D. Levy

Howard W. Lipman
Meredith J. Long
Richard Manney
Richard A. Manoogian

. Alexander R. Mehran

Mayer Mitchell
Richard Roob

John Wilmerding

R. Frederick Woolworth
Honorary Trustees

Irving F. Burton

Russell Lynes
William L. Richards
ARCHIVES OF AMERICAN ART ADVISORY COMMITTEES

Southeast Regional Center

Marc J. Pachter, Chair
Edmund Berkeley
Elizabeth Broun
Lorraine Brown

Paul Chestnut

Nicolai Cikovsky

Alan Fern

Lois Fink

New York Regional Center

Milton Brown, Chair
William C. Agee
Thomas N. Armstrong
Anne d'Harnoncourt
John Dobkin

Linda S. Ferber
William Gerdts
Eugene Goossen

John Howat

James Humphry III

New England Regional Center

Harley P. Holden, Chair
Winslow Ames

Georgia B. Barnhill
David S. Brooke

Robert Cardinale
Theresa Cederholm

Anne Farnam

Charles Ferguson
Wolfgang Freitag

Hugh Gourley

Elton W. Hall

Patricia Hills

Sinclair Hitchings

John Kirk

Elizabeth M. Kornhauser
William Lipke

44

William Homer
Charles F. Hummel
Bernard Mergen
Christina Orr-Cahall
Rick Powell

John Vlach

Judith Zilczer

Abram Lerner

Russell Lynes

Porter McCray

Barbara Novak

Clive Phillpot

Jules D. Prown
William B. Walker

H. Barbara Weinberg
John Wilmerding
William E. Woolfenden

Laura C. Luckey

Paul Master-Karnik
Eva Moseley

Elliot Offner

James O'Gorman
Ronald Onorato

James M. O'Toole
Stephen Riley

Daniel Rosenfeld
David Ross

Theodore E. Stebbins,
Susan Strickler
Katharine Watson
Michael Westworth
Margret Craver Withers
West Coast Regional Center

Whitney Chadwick, Chair

Gerald Bolas
Herschel Chipp
Wanda Corn

John Dillenberger
Charles Eldredge
Albert Elsen
Harvey Jones

John Lane

Southern California Regional Center

Constance Glenn,
E. Maurice Bloch
Ruth Bowman

Bram Dijkstra
Beatrice Farwell
Noriko Fujinami
Henry Hopkins
Josine Ianco-Star

Chicago Documentation Project

Dennis Adrian

Don Baum

Jack Brown, ex of
Courtney Donnell
Richard Gray

Neil Harris

Diana Haskell
Judith Kirshner

Chair

rels

fico

Connie Lewallen
Margaretta Lovell
Harry S. Parker III
Moira Roth

Peter Selz

Marc Simpson
Patterson Sims
Donald L. Stover
Ian McKibbin White

Christopher Knight
Richard Koshalek
Amy Meyers

Earl A. Powell III
Michael Quick
Maurice Tuchman
Richard V. West
Cecile Whiting

Katharine Lee
Archibald Motley
Franz Schulze
David Sokol
James Wells

Wim de Wit

John Zukowsky
ARTHUR M. SACKLER GALLERY
Visiting Committee

Robert McC. Adams, Ex Officio
Thomas L. Freudenheim, Ex Officio
Robert S. Hoffmann, Ex Officio
Thomas E. Lovejoy, Ex Officio

Dr. Charles Blitzer, Chair
Professor Kwang-chih Chang

Mrs. Cynthia Helms

Mr. Porter A. ‘McCray

Ambassador George McGhee

COOPER-HEWITT ADVISORY COUNCIL

August Heckscher, Chairman
Joanne du Point, Vice Chairman
Karen Johnson Boyd

Donald J. Bruckmann

Joan K. Davidson

Harmon Goldstone

Russell Lynes

Kenneth Miller

Arthur Ross

Robert Sarnoff

Marietta Tree

Robert McC. Adams, Ex Officio
Tom Freudenheim, Ex Officio

FREER GALLERY OF ART
Visiting Committee

Robert McC. Adams, Ex Officio

Thomas L. Freudenheim, Ex Officio

Robert S. Hoffmann, Ex Officio

Thomas E. Lovejoy, Ex Officio

Mrs. Jackson Burke, Chair

The Honorable Norman Y. Mineta,
Vice Chair

Professor Kwang-chih Chang

Mr. Willard G. Clark

46

Mr. Henry Millon

The Honorable Norman Y. Mineta
Mrs. Cynthia Polsky

Professor Edith Porada

Mrs. Arthur M. Sackler

H.H. Prince Sadruddin Aga Khan
Professor Yoshiaki Shimizu
Professor Seymour Slive

Mr. Michael Sonnenreich

Professor Marvin Eisenberg
Mr. John G. Ford

Mrs. Katharine Graham

Dr. Sherman E. Lee

Professor Frederick W. Mote
Professor Martin Powers
Professor John M. Rosenfield
The Honorable Hugh Scott
Professor Priscilla Soucek
HIRSHHORN MUSEUM AND SCULPTURE GARDEN BOARD OF TRUSTEES

Chairman
Vice Chairman

Sydney Lewis,
Jerome Greene,
Charles Blitzer
Robert T. Buck
Agnes Gund
Robert Lehrman
Robert Rosenblum
Leonard C. Yaseen

Robert McCormick Adams,
William Hubbs Rehnquist,

(term ended June 30,

19'8'9')

BX JO£fFTE16
EX O£LL1C16

NATIONAL ATR AND SPACE MUSEUM ADVISORY BOARD

Robert McC. Adams, Chairman
V/Admiral Richard F. Dunleavy, USN
Samiel W. Keller, NASA

V/Admiral Clyde T. Lusk, Jr., USOG
Lt/General Donald S. Pihl, USA

Lt/General C.H. Pitman, USMC
Jacqueline Ponder

Peter F. Schabarum

Bernard E. Smith, Jr.
General Larry D. Welch, USAF

NATIONAL ATR AND SPACE MUSEUM RESEARCH ADVISORY COMMITTEE

Dr. Lew Allen

Dr. Daniel J. Boorstin
Professor Freeman Dyson
Admiral Noel Gayler
Professor James R. Hansen

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AFRICAN ART

Robert H. Nooter, Chairman

Frances Humphrey Howard,
Vice-Chairman

Charles B. Benenson

John Conyers, Jr.

David C. Driskell

John A. Friede

James L. Hudson

Colbert I. King

Helen Kuhn

Dr. John Logsdon
Professor Otto Mayr

Dr. Harrison H. Schmidt
Professor William R. Sears
Dr. Joan Warnow

Robin B. Martin

Frank E. Moss

Frieda Rosenthal

Michael R. Sonnenreich

Donald M. Stewart

Robert Farris Thompson

Walter E. Washington

Robert McC. Adams, ex officio
Tom L. Freudenheim, ex officio
NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART COMMISSION

Mr. David S. Purvis, Chairperson
Mr. Wilbur L. Ross, Vice Chairperson

Mr. Ronald Abramson Mrs. Caroline Hume

Mr. Norman Bernstein Mr. R. Crosby Kemper, Jr.
Mrs. Elizabeth Brooke Blake Mr. Myron Kunin

Mr. Thomas S. Buechner Mr. Jacob Lawrence

Dr. Mary Schmidt Campbell Mr. Melvin Lenkin

Mr. Wendell K. Castle Mr. Jacques E. Lennon
Prof. Wanda M. Corn Mr. Owen M. Lopez

Mr. Barney A. Ebsworth Mrs. Nan Tucker McEvoy
Mrs. Patricia Frost Mr. Charles Parkhurst
Mrs. Margaret Dodge Garrett Mrs. Sharon Percy Rockefeller
Mr. August Heckscher Mrs. Caroline Simmons

Mr. Robert McC. Adams, ex officio
Mr. James T. Demetrion, ex officio

Mr. Walker Hancock, Emeritus
Mr. Charles H. Sawyer, Emeritus

NATIONAL PORTRAIT GALLERY COMMISSION

Jeannine Smith Clark (Chairperson)

Michael Collins

Thomas Mellon Evans

Stephen Jay Gould

Marta Istomin

W. John Kenney

David Levering Lewis

R. W. B. Lewis

Robert L. McNeil, Jr.

Robert Morgan

Barbara Novak

Frank Stanton

J. Carter Brown, Director, National Gallery of Art, ex officio
William H. Rehnquist, Chief Justice of the United States, ex officio
Robert McC. Adams, Secretary, Smithsonian Institution, ex officio

48
NATIONAL SCIENCE RESOURCES CENTER ADVISORY BOARD

Albert Baez
Hubert Dyasi
James Ebert
Elsa Feher
Robert C. Forney
Robert Fuller
Samuel Gibbon
Jack Goldstein
Harry Gray
Charles Hardy
Robert Hoffman
Ann Kahn

Amie Knox
William McCune

Phyllis Marcuccio

Lynn Margulis

Ted Maxwell

Philip Morrison

Phylis Morrison

Jerome Pine

Peter Raven

Robert Ridky

Irwin Shapiro

David Sheetz

Melvin Webb

Carolyn Wilson

Karen Worth

Ralph Rinzler, ex officio
Philip M. Smith, ex officio

OFFICE OF ELEMENTARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION

Smithsonian Advisory Council on Education

Claudine Brown

Peggy Cole

Anna Cross
Frances Haley

Carolyn Howard

Yolanda M. Lopez
Eliot Wigginton

FOLKLIFE ADVISORY COUNCIL
Richard Bauman, Chairman
Roger Abrahams
Henry Glassie
Rayna Green
John Langston Gwaltney
Charlotte Heth

SMITHSONIAN/ FOLKWAYS ADVISORY

Michael Asch
Marilyn Averett
Ossie Davis
Mickey Hart
Pete Seeger

Assistant Director, Government
and Community Relations,
Brooklyn Museum

Director, Division of Museum
Programs, New York Hall of
Science

Independent Consultant
on Youth and Museums

Executive Director, National
Council for the Social Studies

Instructor, Literary and Media
Arts, Duke Ellington School of
the Arts

Visual Artist and Art Educator

Director, Foxfire

Adrienne Kaeppler

Ivan Karp

Bernice Johnson Reagon
John Tchen

Carlos Velez-Ibanez

BOARD

49
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION INTERNSHIP COUNCIL

Harry Jackson
Co-Chairperson

Julia Langdon
Co-Chairperson

Grace Tull

Staff Assistant to the Council

Lorie Aceto
Martha Anderson
Donna Ari

Vicki Avera
Joanna Banks
Arthur Breton
Betty Belanus
Dee Bennett
Dorothy Blaska
Mary Case

Linda Chick

Pat Chieffo
Diane Cook-Lee
Ginny Cornett
William Cox
Bruce Craig

zed David
Georgina de Alba
Betty Derbyshire
Mary Dyer

Fran Feldman
Zora Felton
Cynthia Field
Karen Fort

Tom Freudenheim
Cristina Garcia
Amy Gearin

Mary Gooden

Elaine Heuman Gurian

Ruth Hill
Jo Hinkel
Judith Houston

SMITHSONIAN COMMUNICATIONS COUNCIL

Adrian Malone, Chairman
Ann Bay

Edward Bastian

Robert Dierker

Jane Glaser

Madeleine Jacobs

Paul Johnson

Jeffrey LaRiche

50

Harry Jackson
Teresa Johnson
Eileen Jones
Peter Kibbee
Julia Langdon
Betty Lathern
Ted Lawson

Hilde Lee

Tom Lowderbaugh
Eleanor McMillan
John Meehan
Carolyn Mills
Susan Mond
Lauranne Nash
Lucia Pierce
Alan Postlethwaite
Argelis Roman
John Rumm
Barbara Russell
Magda Schremp
James Sims

Lisa Stevenson
Theodore Taranovski
Cheryl Taylor
Rae Thompson
Marjorie Turgel
Wilcomb Washburn
Jeanne Zanke

Felix Lowe
Arthur Molella
Marc Pachter
Bernice Reagon
Ralph Rinzler
Michael Robinson
Stanwyn Shelter
Janet Solinger
Tom Wolf
THE WOMEN'S COMMITTEE OF THE SMITHSONIAN ASSOCIATES

Chairman

Vice Chairman
Secretary

Assistant Secretary
Treasurer

Assistant Treasurer

Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.

James M. Beggs

Denton Blair

Mario H. Boiardi
Philip S. Bowie
Clarence Brown

I. Townsend Burden, III
George Bush

Thomas J. Camp, Jr.
Erank B.-Clay
Lloyd.£E.,.Cilayton
Richard Cobb

Robert Collier

Thomas Edward Crocker
Philip S. Dickson
Adrian Fisher

Dielle Fleischmann
Rockwood Foster
Orville L. Freeman
John W. Gill

William. T.. Hamilton, : Jr.

Walter J. Hodges
Walter Innis

Donald W. Jeffries
Clinton W. Kelly, III
William Kent

Robert H. Koehler
Monroe Leigh

Wendell Lund

Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.

Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Ms.

Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.

1988-1989

Robert Reed Gray
Domenico De Sole
George W. Jones

James K. Mitchell
John Schenck Voorhees
Lucien Kinsolving

William S. Mailliard
Alexander M. Maish
Forrest Es. Mars, Jr.
David E. McGiffert
David H. McKillop
Donald Notman
Lawrence Bruce Olds
Daniel Oliver

Dudley Owen

Thomas J. Owen

James R. Patton, Jr.
John Pflieger

Thomas Malcolm Price
S. Dillon ‘Ripley
Robert E. Rogers

Peter Talbot Russell
Guy Thomas Steuart, II
William S. Stuckey, Jr.

Harriet H. Sweeney

Robert D. van Roijen
Robert M. Waggaman
Charles Swan Weber
Edmund Wellington, Jr.
Richard T. West

T. Ames Wheeler

Byron R. White

Philip C. White
Robert S. Wilkinson
Thomas B. Wilner

51
NATIONAL BOARD OF THE SMITHSONIAN ASSOCIATES

Mrs. Gay F. Wray, Chairman
Mr. Philip F. Anschutz

Mr. George B. Bingham, Jr.

Mr. W. J. Bowen

Mr. Charles L. Brown

Mr. Dan W. Burns

Mr. Frank T. Cary

Mrs. Cummins Catherwood, Jr.
Mr. Ivan Chermayeff

Mr. Jeffrey A. Cole

Mr. Thomas G. Cousins

Mr. Charles D. Dickey, Jr.
Mrs. George C. Dillon

Mrs. Robert Donner

Mr. James H. Evans

Mrs. Robert Reed Gray

Mr. Peter E. Haas

Hon. Ulrice-St. Clair Haynes,

Mr. Gerald D. Hines

Mr. Frank W. Hoch

Mr. S. Charles Kemp
Honorary Members

Mr. William S. Anderson

Mr. Richard P. Cooley

Mr. Joseph F. Cullman III

Hon. Leonard K. Firestone

Mr. Alfred C. Glassell, Jr.

Mr. W. L. Hadley Griffin
Hon. William A. Hewitt
Mr. James M. Kemper, Jr.

Jr.

Mr. Thomas M. Keresey

Mr. Robert V. Lindsay

Mr. Howard M. Love

Mr. Alexander K. McLanahan

Mr. Antony M. Merck

Mrs. Anne Murray Morgan

Mr. John W. Morrison

Mr. Charles H. Murphy, dr.
Mr. Jack S. Parker

Mr. Thomas J. Pritzker

Dr. Alvin N. Puryear

Mrs. John D. Rockefeller IV
Mr. Lloyd G. Schermer

Mr. Charles W. Schmidt
Dr. Ivan Selin

Mr. A. Alfred Taubman
Mrs. James M. Walton
Mr. John C. Whitehead
Mr. T. Evans Wyckoff
Mr. Seymour H. Knox III
Mr. Lewis A. Lapham
Hon. George C. McGhee

Justice Sandra D. O'Connor
Mr. S. Dillon Ripley

Mr. Francis C. Rooney, Jr.
Hon. Thomas J. Watson, Jr.

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION WOMEN'S COUNCIL

Ellen Sprouls
Chairperson
Janice Kaplan
Vice-Chair
Lauranne Nash
Secretary
Ann Kaupp
Treasurer
Mariam Weissman
Historian
Kathleen Baxter
Liz Bettis

Ann Bissell

John Cobert
Montrose Cones
Stephanie Deeley
Nancy Fuller
Freida Hancock
Johanna Humphrey
Frances Jones
Margaret Santiago
Katherine Sprague
THE JOHN F. KENNEDY CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS

BOARD OF TRUSTEES

HONORARY CHAIRMEN

Mrs. George Bush

Mrs. Ronald Reagan

Mrs. Jimmy Carter

Mrs. Gerald R. Ford
OFFICERS

Ralph P. Davidson, Chairman

Senator James A. McClure,
Vice Chairman

Leonard L. Silverstein,
Vice Chairman

Henry Strong, Vice Chairman
Jean Kennedy Smith,
Secretary

MEMBERS APPOINTED BY THE

Joe LB. Allbritton
Philip F. Anschutz

Mrs. Bennett Archambault
Mrs. Howard H. Baker, Jr.
Mrs. William Cafritz
Ralph P. Davidson

June Oppen Degnan

Kenneth Duberstein

James H. Evans

Robert Fryer

Mrs. Joseph B. Gildenhorn
Mrs. William Lee Hanley,
Caroline Rose Hunt

Mrs. Earle M. Jorgensen
Donald M. Koll

Melvin R. Laird

Jit

Mrs. Richard M. Nixon
Mrs. Lyndon B. Johnson
Mrs. Aristotle Onassis

Charlotte Woolard,

Assistant Secretary

Henry Strong, Acting Treasurer
Harry ‘C:’ McPherson; (Ir. ;
General Counsel

William Becker,

Associate Counsel

PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES

Mrs. J. Willard Marriott
Dina Merrill

Joan Mondale

Gerald M. Rafshoon

Mrs. Abraham A. Ribicoff
Leonard L. Silverstein
Jean Kennedy Smith

Roger B. Smith

Dennis Stanfill

Roger L. Stevens

Mrs. Theodore H. Strauss
Henry Strong

Lew R. Wasserman

Charles Z. Wick

MEMBERS EX OFFICIO DESIGNATED BY ACT OF CONGRESS

Louis Sullivan, Secretary

of Health and Human Services
Lauro F. Cavazos, Secretary

of Education
Bruce Gelb, Director,

U.S. Information Agency
Senator Edward M. Kennedy
Senator James A. McClure
Representative Joseph

M. McDade
Representative Charles Wilson

Representative Sidney R. Yates

Marion.:S. Barry,.. Mayor,
District of Columbia

Robert McC. Adams, Secretary,
Smithsonian Institution
James H. Billington,
Librarian of Congress

J. Carter Brown, Chairman,
Commission of Fine Arts

James M. Ridenour, Director,
National Park Service
Senator George J. Mitchell

FOUNDING CHAIRMAN
Roger L. Stevens

HONORARY TRUSTEES
Mrs. Albert Lasker
Ralph E. Becker
Mrs. Jouett Shouse

Paul Woodard, Director, D.C.
Department of Recreation

Mrs. Je Cliftord Folger
J. William Fulbright

NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART BOARD OF TRUSTEES

General Trustees

Franklin D. Murphy, Chairman
John R. Stevenson

Ruth Carter Stevenson

Robert H. Smith

Alexander M. Laughlin

Trustees Ex Officio

William H. Rehnquist, Chief Justice of the United States
James A. Baker III, Secretary of State

Nicholas F. Brady, Secretary of the Treasury

Robert McCormick Adams, Secretary, Smithsonian

Institution

Honorary Trustee, Paul Mellon

WOODROW WILSON INTERNATIONAL CENTER FOR SCHOLARS

Board of Trustees

William J. Baroody, Jr., Chairman
Dwayne O. Andreas, Vice Chairman
Robert McC Adams

James A. Baker, III

Theodore C. Barreaux

James H. Billington

Lynne V. Cheney

Bruce S. Gelb

54

Gertrude Himmelfarb
Max M. Kampelman

J. Willard Marriot, Jr.
John S. Reed

Louis W. Sullivan

John H. Sununu

Robert H. Tuttle

Don W. Wilson
ir

9r6'L00'I €L9'L CLO'8Z 0 LISI bs CCL OPE 966't8 0 joquiaidas
TZ¢'006'I 6S9'8 LST8E 0 P6L'8rO'l 9L9'CL9 Se6 OE 0 : isndny
CLUb67'7 Csr {rece 0 LL8'ES7'I 181878 687'F9I 0 Ainge
€7h'169'T 666 01 TLO'TE 0 CLb‘906 Corso TIP‘LZI 0 oune
8r0'9L9'T 8s0'7I PLO'CE 0 PLe'ZI8 7S8'O0L OELIl 0 Ae;
PSULI6'T 860'LI I89'1T€ 0 C7h'EL6 TIS PL 8er'0sl 0 judy
71S S8S'T 999'6 709'9Z 0 CI8'S7L 1€9°669 86L'tZ1 0 yoey]
8ZL'SLO SOPr'L CELE 0 8C8'88Z OL8'88Z €78'8¢ 0 Avenigo.
6IZ TOL trL'9 brO'be 0 CCC 90 9Lb'867 pe9o'cs 0 Asenueg
6861
969'098 9b7'6 €7r'9r 0 LLUCLE OL8‘6bE 088'78 0 JIqQUadI]
686'S90'T £c0'OI aaas 0 L7S'86P Chr 6cb 797'S6 0 JaquidAON
€LS‘O€E'T L711 OOT6E 0 Thb'699 I8ULLb 6LS‘CEl 0 19Q019O
RR
Maye

WesJjodg Wy jo lunosnyy duping suIpying sulpying

Mayen pue wiv Aaye9 aoeds ALONSI salysnpuy uonnnsuy
s[eIOL, yoImuay uDdOWYy IOI] pue ary jenjen pue siy UBIUOSYIIUIS = YUOPy

OXOl TIVO [BIST UL SUTMOSTYAY uOnmMySUy] UPTUOS Qt OV SIOUSTA

c xipuoddy
‘UONNINSU] URIUOSYNWS IYI OF SIOUSIA [ENPIAIPUL JO JaquINnU yeNnjoe ay) UEY) JOYsIY st pue ‘syUNOD JONSIA UNIsNU JO dJedaIdde OY)
siuasaidas ‘as0josay) ‘JeIO) pueId BYP “SOW JeJDAIS poyUNOD aie Ay) ‘skep AINNIaSUOD JeJZAIS UO SWNISMU sNOeA O} Od JO ‘ARJUN Joy) UO
wnasnw 9U0 UeYy) BOW IpNyoU! SIONISIA AUB DOUIG “WNISNW WeYI OF SJOPISIA JENPIAIPUL JO JOQUINU BY) WIYos WnosnW YdeI JOJ SIO. “ALON

69L'889'PZ WLOL GNVYD

Z6b'bSb 090°LZ LOC'TL 6LL' Ib ZL9‘9Z S8B'PLZ Lv8's 7887 saquiaidas
ZLE‘678 66U' UP S7E OO! SULTS 78S‘LE 661'9LS trr's £08'S isndny
PBL'TSO'T 8LS‘6b BIZ IZ €L6'b9 OLB'IS OS7'6PL 9716 69L'S Aine
£9L'EL8 OOTP 776 101 ELS'LE SOLU COP‘6L9 78791 OLI'b oune
LOU'Ur8 LLUUW Los 1 £99'tp 996'S I 9£9'019 gsr'ol 9LE'T kewl
906'786 ZS1'8b LIT 7 BSP 0S 6LE PZ ELU PIL L79'€7 0 \yidy
6E£'S99 60E'SE 880'16 SOC TE BI7'81 £16 98b 180'% Z9E youey|
PIL'OE BLS‘SZ €S7'8P 1Zp'lZ LLE'El CIB‘I7Z 877'L 760°C Areniqa.J
b09'brE 60S'97 cev' ES €1S'7 O7L'I1 078617 £9t'6 prr'l Arenue
6861
L96' bbb 766'S7 BSL'IS £06°€Z L7S‘8E 699'S6Z 67P'6 £6 Joquis00q
pI9'EEs 68L'LZ ZS'bL OvZ7'LZ 907'6S LSL'SEE LU6 ere JIQUIIAON
6LI'819 P9E‘67 LOL'€6 180'67 ILL‘OS 687 COP £th's pLr'c J9QOVO
a ne es ee
JOIUT)D wnosnp wnhosny] Whosny
wnosny wnosnyy Asaye Kaydiy AJONSIHY WIMoH = pooLOqudIaN
SjeioL Wy ubLyy WIOYYSHH Jayyoes uoIIG ‘S ubNLOWYy -19d009 elsooeuy = YU

\o

(Val
Appendix 3

Academic, Research Training, and Internship Appointments in Fiscal Year 1989

Listed immediately below in the first section of this Appendix, under the heading “‘Aca-
demic and Research Training Appointments,” are Predoctoral and Postdoctoral Fellows,
Graduate Student Fellows, Visiting Scientists or Scholars, and other special awardees and
participants in special programs. This list was compiled by the Office of Fellowships
and Grants. Interns, other academic appointees, and scholarly visitors are listed in the
second section under the heading “Internships and Other Appointments.” These entries
were submitted by the Visitor Information and Associates’ Reception Center.

ACADEMIC AND RESEARCH TRAINING APPOINTMENTS

The Smithsonian offers, through the Office of Fellowships and Grants, research and
study appointments to visiting scientists, scholars, and students. The appointees are
provided access to the Institution’s facilities, staff specialties, and reference resources.
The persons—listed by bureau or office—in this Appendix began their residencies
between October 1, 1988, and September 30, 1989, and have been in residence for
three months or longer. Predoctoral and Postdoctoral Fellows, Visiting Scientists or
Scholars, and other special awardees and participants in special programs are so listed.
The institution where each received, or expects to receive, a degree or the home
university or institution is listed for each Fellow or Visitor. A brief description of the
project undertaken at the Smithsonian is included where appropnate. The Fellow’s or
Visitor’s Smithsonian advisor is also listed.

OFFICE OF INSTITUTIONAL STUDIES

Hilde'Hein, Visiting Scholar, ‘University of Michigan.“ "The
Museum Experience: Reflections on Literature and Reality,"
with Zahava Doering, from September 1 to December 15, 1989.

JOSEPH HENRY PAPERS

Sandra Herbert, Senior Postdoctoral Fellow, Brandeis University.
"Charles Darwin's Geology," with Marc Rothenberg and Arthur
Molella, from February 1, 1989 to January 31, 1990.

Hugh Slotten, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Wisconsin,
Madison. “Reform, Patronage, and Politics in American
Science: Alexander Dallas Bache and the U.S. Coast
Survey," with Marc Rothenberg and Nathan Reingold, from
september 1, 1989 toc:August 312; 1990.
NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK

G. Agoramoorthy, Visiting Scientist,, University ‘of Jodhpur) aiA
Field Study to Investigate the Social Interactions within
Invaded Groups of Red Howler Monkeys (Alouatta seniculus)
in Venezuela," with Rudy Rudran, from April 15 to September
307, L9/89-.

Charles Menzel, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of California,
Davis. “Experiments on Spatial Orientation in
Leontopithecus Group," with Benjamin Beck, from September
LyrikSe97 tovAugust:3b, 1990.

Brian Miller, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Wyoming.
"Predator Avoidance and Hunting Ability Behavior for
Reintroduction of Captive-Raised Black-Footed Ferrets,"
with Christen Wemmer, from June 1, 1989 to May 31, 1990.

William Rall, Research Development Fellow, State University of
New York, New Paltz. "Basic and Applied Studies on the
Cryopreservation of Gametes and Embryos from Endangered
Wild Animals," with David Wildt, from March 1, 1989 to
Maren. 1 4 1992.

Steven Thompson, Research Development Fellow, University of
California, Irvine. "Evolution and Variation of Endothermy
in Mammals: Thermoregulation, Locomotion, and Reproductive
Consequences," with Devra Kleiman, from January 1, 1989 to
July 1, 1990.

John Thorbjarnarson, Visiting Scientist, University of Florida.
"Population Ecology of the Spectacled Caman on Hato
Masaguaral, Venezuela," with Dale Marcellini, from January
1 to July 31, 1989.

Samuel Wasser, Research Development Fellow, University of
Washington. "“Excreted Steroids in Mammalian Feces," with
David Wildt, from January 1, 1989 to January 1, 1991.

Eric Wikramanayake, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of
California, Davis. “Thermal and Reproductive Biology of
Varnus Salvator and Varnus Bengalensis," with John
Seidensticker, from January 1, 1989 to January 1, 1990.

SMITHSONIAN ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY

Javier Alcolea, Visiting Student, Universidad Autonoma de Madrid.
"Circumstellar Envelopes of Stars and SiO Masers," with
James Moran, from July 15 to October 31, 1989.

Gerald Bottrell, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Georgia.
"Investigations of the Adiabatic Approach and its
Application to Other Systems," with Alexander Dalgarno,
from September 1, 1989 to August 31, 1990.

58
Andre Crusius-Watzel, Visiting Scientist, University of Bonn.
"Radiative Transfer in Relativistic Plasma," with James
Moran, from August 15, 1989 to September 30, 1990.

Ilya Fabrikant, Visiting Scientist, Latvian State University.
"Low-Energy Electron Scattering by Highly Polarizable
Targets and Photodetachment of Negative Ions in the

Presence of External Fields," with Alexander Dalgarno, from

Aprin’ i to July, 31.7 31969:

Daniel Gomez, Postdoctoral Fellow, Universidad de Buenos Aires.
"Dynamical Processes in the Solar Corona," with Petrus
Martens, from September 1, 1989 to August 31, 1990.

Xiaofeng Han, Predoctoral Fellow, Harbin Institute of Technology.

"Measurements and Analysis of Unknown Atomic and Molecular
Data, | with Irwin Shapiro, from October 2, 1989 to
September 30, 1990.

Andreas Heithausen, Visiting Scientist, University of Bonn.
"Galactic Cirrus Clouds: A New Class of Interstellar
Clouds?" with Patrick Thaddeus, from-February 1 to
September 30, 1989.

WilliamsHofimann, “Visiting Scientist. "interpretation "of
Spectral Line Data: A Probe of the Physical Conditions in
Circumstellar Material and Star Forming Regions," with
Giovanni Fazio, from February 1 to June 15, 1989.

Pawan “Kumar, Visiting Scientist) California Institute. of
Technology. "The Detection of Stellar and Solar
Oscillations," with Robert Noyes, from October 1, 1988 to
March 11, 1989.

Juan Muzzio, Senior Postdoctoral Fellow, La Plata University.
"The Disintegration of Satellite Galaxies," with Myron
Lecar; fromJanuary 1 to March 31-,*:1989:.

Birgitta Nordstrom, Visiting Scientist, Copenhagen University
Observatory. “Investigations of the Structure of the

Galactic Disk," with David Latham, from December 1, 1988 to

June30;/-19'89'.

Marco Romoli, Visiting Scientist, University of Firenze. "The
Development of Instrumentation for the Smithsonian
Astrophysical Observatory's UVCS/Sotto Project," with John
Kohl from April "3, "2969 to October 2, 1990

Shen Wei, Visiting Scientist, Shaanxi Astronomical Observatory.
“Hydrogen Maser Frequency Standards," with Robert Vessot,
from January 1 to September 30, 1989.

Andrzej Soltan, Visiting Scientist, Warsaw University. "An
Investigation of X-ray Properties of Extra-Galactic
Objects," with Harvey Tananbaum, from July 1 to November
14 1989.

59
John Stanford, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Georgia. "A
Study of the Scattering of Heavy Ion Projectiles by Atoms,"
with Alexander Dalgarno, from September 1, 1989 to August
31y7,91990;- :

Tang Guoqiang, Visiting Scientist, Chalmers University of
Technology. "Differential VLBI Measurements of the Quasar.
4039.25," with Irwin Shapiro, from June 15 to September 28,
1989.

Sanjay Wagh, International Exchange Visitor, University of Poona.
"CCD Studies of Active Galaxies and Quasars," with Martin
Elvis, from March 15 to September 15, 1989.

John Wardle, Visiting Scientist, University of Manchester. "Dual
Wavelength, Polarization Sensitive VLBI Experiment," with
James Moran, from May 1 to September 30, 1989.

Ann Zabludoff, Visiting Student, Massachusetts Institute of
Technology. “The Complex Dynamics of Large Structures,
Clusters of Galaxies, and Superclusters," with M.J. Geller,
from October 1, 1988..to -August. 31,1989.

SMITHSONIAN ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH CENTER

Shiyue Cai, International Exchange Visitor, Zhejiang Agricultural
University. "The Impact of Acid Atmospheric Deposition in
the Physiology of the Root Hairs of Higher Plants," with
David Correll, from March 29 to September 28, 1989.

Felix Dapare Dakora, Visiting Scientist, University of Western
Australia. "The Effect of Elevated CO2 Concentration in
Nitrogen Metabolism of Marsh Plants in Natural Ecosystems
of the Chesapeake Bay," with Bert Drake, from December 1,
1989 to November 30, 1990.

Lucia Dillenburg, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Maryland.
“Physiological Ecology of Vine and Tree Competition," with
Dennis Whigham, from November 14, 1988 to May 13, 1990.

Joseph Dineen, Jr., Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Maryland.
“Investigation of Barnacle Larval Settlement Relevant to
Adult Zonation in the Chesapeake Bay," with Anson Hines,
from October 1, 1989 to September 30, 1990.

Anna Dittel, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Delaware.
"Microhabitat Selection for Molting by Blue Crab Juveniles
(Callinectes sapidus) in the Rhode River Estuary,
Chesapeake Bay," with Anson Hines, From September 10, 1989
to September 9, 1990.

60
David Lawlor, Senior Postdoctoral Fellow, University of London.
“Effects of Elevated Carbon Dioxide on the Structure,
Composition, and Photosynthetic Function of Scirpus in a
Salt Marsh Community," with Bert Drake, from April 1 to
October 31, 1990).

Junda Lin, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of North Carolina,
Chapel Hill. "Effects of Food Supply on Macoma Balthica's
Feeding Mode, and Its Subsequent Susceptibility to
Predation," with Anson Hines, from August 14, 1989 to
AUGUSTE 7.019910:

Nancy Staub, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of California,
Berkeley. "Patterns of Sexual Dimorphism and their
Ecological Consequences in Plethodontid Salamanders," with
James Lynch, from April 3, 1989 to April 2, 1990.

Panchabi Vaithiyanathan, Postdoctoral Fellow, Jawaharlal Nehru
University, India. "Factors Controlling the Release of
Phosphorus from Sediments to Water in the Estuarine Region:
A Case Study of the Rhode River Estuary," with David
Correll, from September 1, 1989 to August 31, 1990.

Joseph T. A. Verhoeven, Senior Postdoctoral Fellow, University of
Nijmegen, The Netherlands. "Nitrogen Cycling along an
Environmental Gradient: Mineralization in Relation to
Litter Quality and Redox Conditions,“ with Dennis Whigham,
from January 15 to December 15, 1989.

Lisa’ K. Wagner, Visiting Scientist, University of California,

Berkeley. "Regulation of Fruit and Seed Production in
Hibiscus moscheutos (Malvaceae): Role of Resources and
Predation,” with Dennis Whigham, from June 14 to September
12, L9ES.

Zhigang Wang, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Cambridge.
"Population Ecology of Epifagus Virginiana," with Dennis
Whigham, from October 1, 1989 to September 30, 1990.

Jess Zimmerman, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Utah. "The
Function of-Storage ‘Organs’in theiOrchid ‘Tipularia
iscolor," with Dennis Whigham, from August 1, 1989 to July
ae a IC os

SMITHSONIAN TROPICAL RESEARCH INSTITUTE

Jacqueline Belwood, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Florida.
"The Role of Tremulation in the Mating Behavior of
Neotropical Pseudophylline Katydids (Insecta: Orthoptera:
Tettigoniidae);" “with Eqbert Leivgh,.“from March 2, 1989 to
February 28, 1990.

ol
Jeffrey Brawn, Postdoctoral Fellow, Northern Arizona University.
"The Influences of Physical Isolation on Geographic
Variation within Selected Bird Species on Panama's Pearl
Islands," with Harilaos Lessios, from January 1, 1989 to
January 1, 1990.

Laurel Collins, Postdoctoral Fellow, Yale University. "Effects
of Environmental Change on the Shallow-Water Benthic
Foraminifera of Panama," with Jeremy Jackson, from October
1, 1988 to May 30, 1990.

Timothy Collins, Postdoctoral Fellow, Yale University. "Rates of
Molecular Evolution in Marine Gastropods," with Harilaos
Lessios, from May 25, 1989 to May 24, 1990.

Kevin Hogan, Visiting Scientist, University of Illinois.
"Ecophysiology of Geographic Ally Wide-Ranging Plant
Species," with Alan Smith, from December 1, 1988 to January
32.7. 19'90.

Roberto Ibanez, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Connecticut.
"Synchronized Calling in Centronella granulosa and
Smilisca sila (Amphibia, Anura)," with A. Stanley Rand,
from September 1, 1989 to December 31, 1990.

Kenneth Johnson, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Iowa.
“Testing for Natural Selection on Corals: Patterns of
Skeletal Morphology, Fertility, and Genetic Variation in
Natural Populations of Manicina Areolata (Scleractinia),"
with Nancy Knowlton, from October 1, 1989 to September 30,
1990.

Kaoru Kitajima Okada, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Illinois.
"A Community-Wide Study of Tropical Tree Seedlings: the
Ecological Consequences of the Structure/Physiology
Relationships of Cotyledons," with Alan Smith, from June l,
1989 to May 31, 1990.

Noris Salazar, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Alberta. "A
Systematic Revision of the Neotropical Species of
Octoblepharum, a Pantropical Moss Genus with Ecological and
Reproductive Biology Studies of Two Species in Panama,"
with Alan Smith, from March 1, 1989 to March 1, 1990.

Ellen Smith, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Washington. "The
Evolution of Parental Care: A Multidisciplinary Approach
in Some Dendrobatid Frogs,” with A. Stanley Rand, from June
i, M1989) to.May 31,1990.

Hugh Sweatman, Visiting Scientist, Macquaire University. "An
Investigation of Sea Grass Beds as Habitats for Coral Reef
Fishes," with Ross Robertson, from November 15, 1988 to
September 30, 1990.
Ernesto Weil, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Texas, Austin.
"Morphologic and Genetic Variation of Porites (Anthozoa,
Scleractinia) Across the Isthmus of Panama," with Nancy
Knowlton, from June 1, 1989 to May 31, 1990.

ARTHUR M. SACKLER GALLERY

Massoud Azarnoush, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of California,
Los Angeles. "1l) Excavations at Hajibad, the Final Report,
2) Pre-Islamic Architecture of Iran, and 3) the Chronology
of the Kusann-Sasanians," with Ann Gunter, from August l,
ESS CoOn July 30) uO

Akiko Murakata, Senior Postdoctoral Fellow, George Washington

University. "Charles L. Freer and Japanese Art," with
Wilcomb Washburn and Ann Yonemura, from July 1 to September
30), 1989’.

Wheeler Thackston, Jr., Rockefeller Fellow, Harvard University.
Research on Old and New English Translation of Chaghatay
Turkish and Persian Texts of the Emperor Babur's Memoires,
with Milo Beach, from June 1 to September 1, 1989.

CONSERVATION ANALYTICAL LABORATORY

Stephen Collins, Postgraduate Conservation Intern, John F.
Kennedy University. “Changes in Crystallinity of
Constrained Fibers Due to the Presence of Moisture,"
with Mary Ballard, from August 15, 1989 to August 14, 1990.

Robert Henrickson, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Toronto.
“Organization of Ceramic Production in the Godin III
Tradition of Central Western Iran, 2600-1400 B.C.," with
M. James Blackman and Pamela Vandiver, from September 15,
1989 to December 14, 1990.

Julie Lauffenburger, Postgraduate Conservation Intern, Buffalo
State College. "The Effects of Past Treatments on Metal
Objects and How it Has Affected the Analysis of Museum
Objects," with Carol Grissom, from September 18, 1989 to
September 17, 1990.

Janet Schrenk, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Minnesota.
"Technical Analysis of Benin Bronzes in the National Museum
of African Art,“ with David Von’ Endt,: from April 1; 1989 .to
March 32) *~19'9°0'.

Yoonjoo L. Strumfels, Postgraduate Conservation Intern,
University of Delaware. "Conservation Problems with Paper
and Photographs," with Antoinette Dwan, from January 3,
1989 to January 2, 1990.
Aslihan Yener, Postdoctoral Fellow, Columbia University. "The
Archaeometallurgy of Ancient Anatolia," with Martha
Goodway, from January 1 to December 31, 1989.

COOPER-HEWITT MUSEUM

Sarah Dove, Postgraduate Conservation Intern, Newcastle
Polytechnic. "The History of Use, Manufacture, and Other
Factors that Contribute to the Uniqueness of an Object
and/or Problems of Deterioration,” with Konstanze Bachmann,
from guly® 1, °21989 to..June’ 30,,..1990'.

Esther Methe, Postgraduate Conservation Intern, University of
Alberta. “Analysis of a Select Group of Sixth to Tenth
Century Middle Eastern Textiles," with Lucy Commoner, from
October 3, 1988 to October 2, 1989.

HIRSHHORN MUSEUM AND SCULPTURE GARDEN

Lynne C. Cooke, Postdoctoral Fellow, University College.
"Developments in American Sculpture c. 1968-1988," with Ned
Ritkin, ‘from October 1,°1989.to March, 31, 1990;

Roberta Tarbell, Senior Postdoctoral Fellow, University of
Delaware. “The Sculpture of Seymour Lipton: Aesthetic,
Iconographic, Contextual, and Technical Considerations,"
with Valerie Fletcher, from January 3 to June 3, 1989.

NATIONAL AIR AND SPACE MUSEUM

Tami Davis Biddle, Predoctoral Fellow, Yale University. "Air
Power Doctrine, Strategic Bombing, and the Development of
Air Force Strategy from the Interwar Years to the Early
Cold War Years," with Dominick Pisano, from January 1 to
December 31, 1989.

Ron Dick, International Fellow, Royal College of Defence Studies.
"Fifty Years of Jet Aviation," with Martin Harwit and Von
Hardesty, from October 1, 1988 to September 30, 1990.

Daniel Ford, A. Verville Fellow, University of New Hampshire.
"Japanese Army Air Operations in Burma and Western China,
December 1941 - July 1942," with Donald Lopez and Robert
Mikesh, from July 10, 1989 to July 9, 1990.

Randall Forsythe, Senior Postdoctoral Fellow, Columbia
University. "Tectonic Studies in the Martian Equatorial

Transition Zone: A Search for Ancient Lithospheric
Mobility," with James Zimbelman, from May 15, 1989 to June
30,1990.

David Hallam, International Fellow, Canberra College of Advanced
Education. "The State of Modern Metal Corrosion and the
Conservation of Large Aircraft," with Robert Mikesh, from
February 1 to November 1, 1989.

64
Takehiko Hashimoto, Guggenheim Fellow, Johns Hopkins University.
"The Origin of Aerodynamics: A Comparative Approach," with
John Anderson and Howard Wolko, from June 1, 1989 to March
31),.- LOSIOX

Lee Kennett, Lindbergh Fellow, University of Virginia. "The
History of Military Aviation in World War I," with Donald
Lopez, from September 1, 1989 to August 31, 1990.

David Naylor, Visiting Scientist, The University of Calgary.
“Laboratory Development of a Metal Mesh Testing Facility,"
with Howard” Smith) fromuguly 25° 1969: to: July 1) 29907

Michael Neufeld, Postdoctoral Fellow, Johns Hopkins University.
“Peenemunde and Wernher von Braun," with Joseph Tatarewicz,
from August 15, 1989 to February 14, 1990.

Yuri Salnikov, International Fellow, Soviet State Cinema
Institute. "The History of Soviet-American Relations in
Aviation," with Von Hardesty and Cathleen Lewis, from
February 3 to November 2, 1989.

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AFRICAN ART

Mary Nooter, Predoctoral Fellow, Columbia University. "Luba Art
and Statehood: Political Symbols and Strategies in a
Central African Kingdom," with Roy Sieber, from May 15,
1989 to May 14, 1990.

Nkiru Nzegwu, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Ottawa.
"Looking Through African Eyes," with Roy Sieber, from
January=15 "tor April 15,1969".

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART

Karen Blair, Postdoctoral Fellow, State University of New York,
Buffalo. "American Associations of Women Painters, 1870-
1930," with Lillian Miller, from October 3, 1988 to
September 2, 1989.

Nicholas Capasso, Predoctoral Fellow, Rutgers University. "The
National Vietnam Veterans Memorial and the Impact of Post-
Minimalism on American War Memorials," with George Gurney,
from June “1989 “to May —31,'"1990:.

Jane Clark, Visiting Scholar, University of London. "Landscape
and National Identity: A Comparative Study of Painting in
Nineteenth Century America and Australia," with Lois Fink,
from* May 1, °1989 to June”15,°1990.

Nancy Corwin, James Renwick Senior Fellow, Kansas City Art
institute:  “A-Critical’ History of Fiber Art as Part of the
Post World War II Crafts Revival in America," with Michael
Monroe, from October 1, 1988 to September 30, 1990.

65
Eleanor Jones, Predoctoral Fellow, Yale University. "The
Language of Art: Landscape Oil Sketches in America, 1830-
1870," with William Truettner, from October 1, 1988 to
September 30, 1989.

Matthew Arvid Kangas, Senior Postdoctoral Fellow, Oxford
University. "Two Aspects of American Ceramics: Sculpture,
Text," with Michael Monroe, from October], (1989 .to May..3ly
1990.

Jonathan Katz, Predoctoral Fellow, Northwestern University.
"Sexuality in the Art of Jasper Johns and Robert :
Rauschenberg, 1957-1962," with Virginia Mecklenburg and
Harry Rand, from February 1 to December 9, 1989.

Patricia Malarcher, James Renwick Graduate Fellow, New York
University. "An Investigation of Critical Approaches to
Art in Craft Materials," with Michael Monroe, from January
1 to September 30, 1989.

Janet Marstine, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Pittsburgh.
“Themes of Labor and Industry in American Mural Painting,
1893-1914," with Richard Murray, from March 1, 1989 to
February 28, 1990.

David McCarthy, Visiting Student, University of Delaware.
"Compromised Positions: Situations for the Nude in American
Art of the 1960s and 1970s," with Virginia Mecklenburg,
from September 1, 1989 to August 31, 1990.

Frederick Moffatt, Senior Postdoctoral Fellow, University of

Chicago. "George G. Barnard's Bronze Statue of Abraham
Lincoln," with Lois. Fink, from July 1, 1989 to. June. 30;
1990.

Michael Plante, Predoctoral Fellow, Brown University. “American
Painting and Postwar Paris, 1945-1956," with Harry Rand,
from Aprid 25,. 1989. to April 14,1990.

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AMERICAN HISTORY

Kimn Carlton-Smith, Predoctoral Fellow, Rutgers University.
"Cultural Democracy and Constructions of Community," with
Charles McGovern and Barbara Melosh, from July 1, 1989 to
June 30, 1990.

Melinda Chateauvert, Predoctoral Fellow, University of
Pennsylvania. “Marching Together: Woman of the
Brotherhood of Sleeping Car Porters,” with Edith Mayo, from
September 1, 1989 to May 31, 1990.

Marsha Darling, Faculty Fellow, Duke University. "The Evolution

of Images of Black and White Women in Hollywood Cinema,"
with Spencer Crew, from June 1 to September 30, 1989.

66
Kathryn Fuller, Predoctoral Fellow, Johns Hopkins University. "A
Nation of Movie-Goers: The American Middle Class Movie
Audience, 1914-1934," with Charles McGovern, from September
11, 1989 to September 10, 1990.

Stuart Goosman, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Washington.
"The Ethnomusicology of Black Group Vocal Harmony, 1945-
1960," with Bernice Reagon, from July 1, 1989 to June 30,
1990.

Robert La Bret Hall, Postdoctoral Fellow, Florida State
University. “The Atlantic Slave Trade and the Genesis of
American Culture, 1526-1807," with Spencer Crew, from June
e969 to May: 3a"): 1990".

Delores Harvey, Faculty Fellow, University of Maryland. "A Study
of the Lesser Known Abolitionists in Northeastern Cities,"
with Spencer Crew and James Horton, from June 15 to
September 14, 1989.

Katherine Jellison, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Iowa.
"Choice and Change in the Heartland: Farm Women and
Technology, 1913-1963," with Pete Daniel, from June 1 to
November 30, 1989.

Jeffrey Lena, Predoctoral Fellow, University of California,
Berkeley. "Noah Webster and the Development of American
Culture in the Early Republic," with Keith Melder, from
October. 1) -1968 (to:.June 30,1989.

Mary Beth Pudup, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of California,
Berkeley. "Rural Resources and Subsistence Livelihoods in
Appalachia,” with Pete Daniel, from August 15, 1989 to
August 14, 1990.

Thompson Smith, Predoctoral Fellow, Yale University. “Ecological
and Cultural History of the Flathead Indian Reservation
Area, 1850-1940," with Rayna Green, from September 1, 1989
to August 31, 1990.

Rudi Volti, Senior Postdoctoral Fellow, Rice University. "The
Development and Triumph of the Four-Stroke Internal
Combustion Engine: Two Studies," with Robert Post, from
September 1, 1989 to June 30, 1990.

Shirley Wajda, Graduate Student Fellow, University of
Pennsylvania. "Dramatis Personae: The Re-Presentation of
American Victorians in Turn-of-the-Century Comic and Genre
Stereoviews," with Pete Daniel, from October 10, 1988 to
March; 15-,719892

Kimberley Webber, University of Sydney. "The American Influence
on the Social Construction of the Australian Kitchen, 1850-
1930," with Rodris Roth, from January 1 to December 31,
1989.
Xiao-huang Yin, Predoctoral Fellow, Harvard University. "Dreams
from Gold Mountain: Chinese American Literature and its
Socio-Cultural Context," with Gary Kulik, from September 1
to November 30, 1989.

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY

Cleber Alho, Short-Term Visitor, University of North Carolina,
Chapel Hill. "The Vertebrate Scientific Collection of the
University of Brasilia and its Science Museum," with
Charles Handley, from April 1 to July 31, 1989.

Julie Ambler, Visiting Scientist, Texas A&M University. "Life
History of Dioithona oculata Occuring Near Red Mangrove
Prop Roots," with Frank Ferrari, from December 1, 1988 to
June: 15, 1989.

Altair Barbosa, Visiting Scientist, Universidade Catolica de

Goias. "The Pre-Ceramic Period of the Central Brazilian
Plains," with Betty Meggers, from June 1, 1989 to May 31,
1839:9'25

Paula Bienenfeld, Visiting Scientist, State University of New
York, Binghamton. "Analysis of the Community Structure of
a Prehistoric Chiefdom in Eastern North America," with
Bruce: Smith, from August -1,,.1989 to duly.31) 4298.1.

Juliet Brodie, Postdoctoral Fellow, University College, Galway.
"An Investigation into the Systematics and Life History of
Members of the Genus Liagora (Rhodophyta) from the
Caribbean," with James Norris, from September 18, 1989 to
September 17, 1990.

Robyn Burnham, Visiting Scientist, University of Washington.
"Seeing the Forest in the Litter: A New Method of
Inferring the Structure of Extinct Vegetation from
Fossils," with Scott Wing, from January 1 to December 31,
1989.

Jeanne Chaussonnet, Predoctoral Fellow, Institut d'Etudes
Politiques de Paris. "Ethnic Processes and Political
Development Among Siberian and Northern Canadian Peoples in
the Twentieth Century," with William Fitzhugh, from
September 1, 1989 to August 31, 1990.

James Clark, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Chicago.
"Phylogenetic Relationships of Eusuchian Crocodylians,"
with Nicholas Hotton, from April 10, 1989 to April 9, 1990.

James Cobb, Visiting Scientist, St. Andrews University. "An
Electrophysiological and Behavioral Investigation of the
Ophiuroid Photoreceptor System," with David Pawson, from
February .1 to :May (1, -1989:.

68
Bryan Danforth, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Kansas.
"Phylogeny of the Macrotera Group of Perdita (Hymenoptera:
Andreneidae) with Special Reference to the Evolution of
Male Head Allometry," with Ronald McGinley, from March l,
1989 to.April..30)) 199.0).

Ferial Deer Skye, Academic Intern, University of South Dakota.
Menominee Tribal Catalogue, with JoAllyn Archambault, from
July- 3 to October 27,1989.

A. Dilly Devi, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Delhi. "The
Evolution of Culture in an Island Society: An Ecological
Approach," with Paul :-Taylor, from: June.1.,, 1989 to; May 31,
9IS;0%

Walentina De Weerdt, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of
Amsterdam. “Taxonomy, Phylogeny, and Cladistic
Biogeography of Caribbean Chalinidae (Porifera,
Haplosclerida)," with Klaus Ruetzler, from October 10, 1988
to; January) -7,. 1990).

Joseph Dishta, Native American Community Scholar, Pueblo of Zuni
Job Training Partnership. A Tribal Catalogue of Zuni
Manuscripts, with JoAllyn Archambault, from March 20 to
November 10, 1989.

Karen Dohm, Postdoctoral Fellow, Washington State University.
"Predicting Population from Architectural Nucleation and
House Size for Pueblos in the Southwestern United States,"
with Dennis Stanford, from December 1, 1988 to November 30,
1989.

Maria Louella Dolar, Short-Term Visitor, James Cook University.
"The Biology of Philippine Marine Mammals," with James
Mead, from February 1 to May 15, 1989.

George Effman, Native American Community Scholar, United South
and Eastern Tribes, Inc. A Tribal Catalogue of Klamath
Artifacts, with JoAllyn Archambault, from March 20 to
November 10, 1989.

Aaron Ellison, Visiting Scholar, Brown University. "Potential
Facilitations Between Sponges and Red Mangroves (Rhizophora
mangle)," with Klaus Ruetzler, from January 1 to May 15,
179'8:97.

Per. Ericson, Visiting’ Scientist, University of:Stockholm. « “The
Fossil Bird Presbyornis and its Significance to the
Evolution and Systematics of Birds,” with.Storrs Olson,
from September 1, 1989 to August 31, 1990.

Raymond Forster, Senior Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Otago,
New Zealand. “Review of the Spider Superfamily
Araneoidea," with Jonathan Coddington, from July 15 to
December 15, 1989.

69
Amnon Freidberg, Visiting Scientist, Tel Aviv University.
"Systematic Research on Old World Fruit Flies, Especially
Important Pest Species of the Genera Ceratitis and Dacus,"
with Wayne Mathis, from October 3, 1988 to October 2, 1989.

Ronald™“Pritzsche; Visiting: Scientist: University of Californiay
San Diego. "Survey of the Ichthyo Fauna of Twin Cays,
Belize," with G. David Johnson, from November 1, 1988 to
May 25, 1989.

Jon Gelhaus, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Kansas.
"Systematics and Biogeography of the Tipula (Lunatipula)
yergete Species Group (Diptera: Tipulidae)," with Wayne
Mathis, from January 16, 1989 to January 15, 1990.

Marian Hansson, Visiting Scholar, University of Oklahoma. "The
Kiowa at the Smithsonian or Getting the Collection Back to
the People," with William Merrill, from December 1, 1988 to
August 31, “1989.

Valerie Haskins, Predoctoral Fellow, Washington University.
"Health and Disease of the Archaic Shell Mound Inhabitants
along the Green River, Kentucky," with Donald Ortner, from
March 2, 1989 to February 28, 1990.

Peter Heaney, Postdoctoral Fellow, Johns Hopkins University. "X-
Ray Powder Diffraction of Microcrystalline Silica
Varieties," with Jeffrey Post, from July 24, 1989 to July
23, 1990.

Gordon Hendler, Visiting Scientist, The University of
Connecticut. "An Electrophysiological and Behavioral
Investigation of the Ophiuroid Photoreceptor System," with
David Pawson, from February 1 to May 1, 1989.

Teruaki Ishii, Senior Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Tokyo.
“Petrological and Mineralogical Studies of Modern and
Ancient Submarine Arc-Volcanism and Arc-Evolution along the
Hakone-Izu-Ogasawara Arc," with Richard Fiske, from June l,
1989 to March 31, 1990.

Paul Koch, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Michigan. "The
Effects of Weathering on the Carbon and Oxygen Isotope
Composition of Bone," with Anna Kay Behrensmeyer, from
September 18, 1989 to September 17, 1990.

Carey Krajewski, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Wisconsin,
Madison. "A Molecular Systematic Study of the Extinct
Tasmanian Wolf (Marsupialia: Thylacinidae)," with Michael
Braun, “from August 1,’ 1989 ‘to: July 31; 19901:

Kim Lanphear, Postdoctoral Fellow, State University of New York,
Albany. “The Health of Southern Slaves Compared to that of
the Laboring Population of the Northeastern U.S.," with
Douglas Owsley, from September 1, 1989 to August 31, 1990.

79°
Brian ‘Lapoint, Visiting: Scientist, University ‘of South. Florida.
"The Nutrient Status and Physiological State of Macroalgae

from Low Nutrient Mangrove Ecosystem versus a High Nutrient

—

Mangrove Ecosystem," with Mark Littler, from January 1 to
March 15, 29.8.9).

Li zhen-yu, Short-Term Visitor, Institute of Botany, Academia
Sinica. “A Study of Gesneriaceae and Identification of
Lentibulariaceae and Cactaceae," with Laurence Skog, from
July 1 to September 30, 1989.

Richard Lowell, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Alberta.
"Induced Biomechanical and Chemical Responses of Marine
Macroalgae to Herbivore Damage," with Mark Littler, from
October 1, 1988 to September 30, 1989.

Gregory Mayer, Postdoctoral Fellow, Harvard University.
"Phylogeny, Geographic Variation, and the Origin of
Ecomorphs in Jamaican Lizards of the Genus Anolis," with
George Zug, from March 20, 1989 to March 19, 1990.

Lucile McCook, Postdoctoral Fellow, Cornell University.
"Phylogenetic Analysis of Cypripedioid and Apostasioid
Orchids: A New Approach to a Major Conflict in Orchid
Systematics," with Vicki Funk, from February 1, 1989 to
January, 31, ,1990.

Richard, Modlin, Visiting Scientist,. University: of: Connecticut.
"Swarming Dynamics and Ecology of Mysidium Species," with
Frank Renranl, from January. 1 to: July cis i 1989).

Susan Nahwoosky, Visiting Scholar, Keuka College. Comanche
Tribal Catalogue, with JoAllyn Archambault, from May 22 to
October 6,.1989.

Yun Sil Park, Postdoctoral Fellow, Duke University.
"Phylogenetic Study of Lichen Family Parmeliaceae," with
Mason Hale, from: March, 1,.. 1989, to, February, ).28.):,.1990..

Thomas Parsons, Visiting Scientist, University of Washington.

"Phylogenetic Analysis of Extinct Birds Based on Nucleotide

Sequence Comparison," with Michael Braun, from January l,
1989 to- September 30, 1990.

Manuel L. Pescador, Faculty Fellow, Florida State University.
"Systematics of the Cool-Adapted Mayflies (Ephemeroptera)
of South America," with Oliver Flint, from June 12 to
September 12, 1989.

Thomas Plummer, Predoctoral Fellow, Yale University.
“Paleoecology and Site Formation of Kanjera, Kenya," with
Richard Potts, from January 1 to December 31, 1989.
Dan Polhemus, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Utah.
“Systematics and Zoogeography of Neotropical Rhagovelia
(Insecta: Hemiptera: Veliidae)," with Richard Froeschner,
from December 1, 1988 to November 30, 1989.

Kenneth Rasmussen, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of North
Carolina, Chapel, Hill... "Marine, Biolithic, Hardgrounds. of
Northern Great Bahama Bank: Genesis, Development, and
Geological Significance,“ with Ian MacIntyre, from
September 1, 1989 to August 31, 1991.

Susan Rasmussen, Postdoctoral Fellow, Indiana University. "A
Balancing Act: Artistic Form and Sociopolitical Power in
Tuareg Aesthetics and Cosmology," with Mary Jo Arnoldi,
Prom June 1, ° 29389: to May 31. 2990.

Cynthia Rebar, Short-Term Visitor, Kansas State University. "A
Study of Relative Brain Size in the New World Family of
Rodents, Heteromyidae," with Don Wilson, from January 1 to
May 15, 1989.

Janet Reid, Senior Postdoctoral Fellow, North Carolina State
University. "Copepoda (Crustacea) from Semiterrestrial
Habitats in Central Brazil," with Thomas Bowman, from
October 1, 1988 to September 30, 1989.

Judith Rhymer, Postdoctoral Fellow, Florida State University.
"Evolutionary Relationships in the Mallard Complex Using
Restriction Enzyme Analysis of Nuclear DNA," with Michael
Braun and Eugene Morton, from September 1, 1989 to August
Sly AIO L

Clive Roberts, Postdoctoral Fellow, Victoria University,
Wellington, New Zealand. "A Survey of the Ctenoid Scale
Morphology in Percomorph Fishes and Analysis of its
Phylogenetic Significance," with G. David Johnson, from
March 1, 1989 to February 28, 1990.

Jorge Rodriguez, Visiting Scientist, Universidad Nacional de La
Plata. “Relations between Precolumbian Cultures of North
Eastern Argentina and the Tropical Lowlands to the North,"
with Betty Meggers, from May 1, 1989 to April 30, 1990.

Gene Sattler, Visiting Student, University of Maryland.
"Breeding Introgression in Chickadee Contact Zones," with
Michael Braun, from January 1, 1989 to December 31, 1990.

Patricia’ Sawaya, Visiting Student,,. University of. Cincinnati:
“A Molecular Investigation of Speciation in the Chickadees

Parus carolinensis and. Parus atricapillus," with Michael
Braun, from November 14, 1988 to June 13, 1990.

Ziang-qing Shao, Short-Term Visitor, Fudan University. "A
Comparative Study of Crania at the Neolithic Stage in the
Xinjian Uygur Autonomous Region with American White Crania
and other Crania," with Douglas Ubelaker, from June 5 to
September 5, 1989.

Anthony Shelton, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Oxford. "A
General Ethnography of the Huichol of Northwest Mexico,"
with William Merrill, from March 20, 1989 to March 19,
1990's

Penelope Shepard, Visiting Student, University of Victoria. "The
Presence of Chemoautotrophic Endosymbiotic Bacteria in
Lucinid and Solemyid Bivalues and the Relationship of the
Symbiosis to Available Sulfur Species in Sea Grass and
Mangrove Habitats," with Klaus Ruetzler, from January 1 to
September 30, 1989.

John “Stevely, Visiting Scientist, University of, South Florida.
"Survey of the Commercial Sponge Resources of Belize," with
Klaus Ruetzler, from March 1 to September 30, 1989.

Wolframe-Tertschnig, Visiting: Scientist, University .of sienna.
"Distributional Ecology and Nutrition of two Sea Urchin
Species in Thalassia Testudinum Sea Grass Beds at the Twin
Cays Mangal System and the Adjacent Lagoon," with Klaus
Ruetzler, from January 1 to March 1, 1989.

Elisabeth Tooker, Senior Postdoctoral Fellow, Radcliffe College.
"The Smithsonian and the Anthropological Community in the
Nineteenth Century," with William Sturtevant, from
September 1, 1989 to February 28, 1990.

Charles Wahle, Visiting Scientist, Johns Hopkins University.
"The Functional Morphology of Octocoral Spicules at Carrie
Bow Cay," with Klaus Ruetzler, from February 1 to September
3077 1989'.

Banyue Wang, Senior Postdoctoral Fellow, Institute of Vertebrate
Paleontology and Paleoanthropology, Academia Sinica, China.
“The Intercontinental Relationships between the Holarctic
Oligocene," with Robert Emry, from September 13, 1989 to
September 12, 1990.

Susan Weller, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Texas.
"Revision of Dasylophia and Betola with an Assessment of
Phylogenetic Relationships within the Subfamily
Notodontinae (Lepidoptera: Noctuoidea: Notodontidae)," with
Mary Mickevich and Robert Robbins, from September 1,
191389" Cor August 731,’ 1990.

Richard Werbner, Senior Postdoctoral Fellow, Manchester
University. "Person, Knowledge, and Evil in Divination,"
with William Merrill, from September 1, 1989 to August 31,
1990.
Brian Wiegmann, Curatorial Fellow, University of Maryland. "A
Phylogenetic Revision of the Family Atelestidae with a
Proposed Origin of the Cyclorrhaphous Diptera," with Wayne
Mathis, from October 1, 1988 to September 30, 1990.

Colin Woodroffe, Visiting Scientist, Cambridge University.
"Mapping of Central Belize Barrier Reef from Satellite
Imagery," with Klaus Ruetzler, from January 1 to September
30:7; L989.

Rose Wyaco, Native American Community Scholar, Zuni Archives
Program. Zuni Tribal Catalogue, with JoAllyn Archambault,
from October 31, 1988 to October 18, 1989

Qui-Yun Xiang, Short-Term Visitor, Chongshan University of
Gwangzhou. "A Comparative Study of the Cornus Species of
Asia and the Cornus Species of North America," with Richard
Eyde, from April 1 to June 30, 1989.

Man-Miao Yang, Curatorial Fellow, University of Maryland.
"Problems in the Evolution of Behavior in the Homoptera,"
with Jonathan Coddington, from October 1, 1988 to September
30, 1990.

Melinda Zeder, Visiting Scientist, University of Michigan.
"Powers Phase: Faunal Analysis," with Bruce Smith, from
August 14, 1989 to August 13, 1990.

Karen Zeller, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Cincinnati. "The
Phylogenetic Relationship of Humans and the Higher
Primates," with Michael Braun, from January 1, 1989 to
December 31, 1990.

NATIONAL PORTRAIT GALLERY

Robert Janson-La Palme, Visiting Scholar, Princeton University.
“Annotations for Publication of Complete Autobiographical
Manuscript of Charles Wilson Peale," with Lillian Miller,
from May 22, 1989 to January 31, 1990.

OFFICE OF FOLKLIFE PROGRAMS

David Brown, Postdoctoral Fellow, Yale University. "Topics in
Black Atlantic Culture and Creolization," with Nicholas
Spitzer, from January 15 to November 30, 1989.

Christopher Lornell, Postdoctoral Fellow, Memphis State
University. "Folk Music -- American Music and the Folkways
Collection," with Anthony Seeger, from November 1, 1988 to
Judy 31, 1990.
OTHER BUREAU APPOINTMENTS

CONSERVATION ANALYTICAL LABORATORY

Jorge}Guni; Fulbright: Scholar.*.‘"1) ” Encaustic Painting, Roman,
Greek and Modern and 2) Solvent Effects on Picture
Cleaning," with Jia-Sun Tsang and David Erhardt, from
September 25, 1989 to August 24, 1990.

FREER GALLERY OF ART

Kathleen Emerson-Dell, Freer Fellow, University of Michigan.
Research on Japanese Ceramics, from November 1, 1988 to
June 30, 1989.

SMITHSONIAN TROPICAL RESEARCH INSTITUTE
Short-Term Fellowships in Tropical Biology

Ranjit J. Daniels, Short-Term Fellow, Indian Institute of
Science. "Landscape Heterogeneity: Patch Size,
Organization, and Vertebrate (Birds and Reptiles)," with
Dr. A. Stanley Rand, from September 25 to December 18,
1989.

Emmett Duffy, Short-Term Fellow, University of North Carolina.
"The Dynamics of Commensalism in Reef Invertebrates," with
Nancy Knowlton, from October 1 to December 20, 1988.

Brian Fisher, Short-Term Fellow, University of Utah.
"Interaction Between Pachychondyla and Cecronia," with
Donald M. Windsor, from August 10 to November 20, 1989.

Matthew Gompper, Short-Term Fellow, University of Tennessee.
"The Social Structure of the Coati (Nasua narica): Genetic
Structure, Relatedness, and Causes of Gregariousness and
Apparent Altruism," with Nicholas Smythe, from August 1 to
December 31, 1989.

Jonathan Losos, Short-Term Fellow, University of California,
Berkeley. "Ecology, Behavior, and Performance of Anolis
Lizards," with A. Stanley Rand, from November 17 to
December 12, 1988.

Simon Nemtzov, Short-Term Fellow, State University of New York at
Stony Brook. "“Ecotypic Variation in the Social System and
Mating Behavior of Caribbean Razorfish," with D. Ross
Robertson, from June 1 to August 31, 1989.

Risa Rosenberg, Short-Term Fellow, University of Stockholm.
"Butterfly Flight Height Stratification,“ with Donald M.
Windsor, from February 19 to May 19, 1989.
Dayid..zeh, Short-Term, Fellow.,.Universitywof Arizona.* ."Studysor
Sexual Selection in Pseudoscorpions," with William
Eberhard, from October 1, 1988 to September 30, 1989.

Latin American and Exxon Fellowships

Jorge Alejandro Ahumada, Short-Term Fellow, Universidad de los
Andes. "A Study of the Social Behavior of the Black Handed
Spider Monkey (Ateles geoffroyi) at Barro Colorado Island,"
with Katherine Milton, Neal G. Smith and A. Stanley Rand,
from October 14, 1988 to January 15, 1989.

Gloria Almanza, Exxon Fellow, University of Panama. "“Inventario
Herpetologico de la Serrania del Tute," with A. Stanley
Rand and V. Martinez, from October 10, 1988 to March 31,
1989.

Emerita Borace, Short-Term Fellow, Universidad Autonoma de
Mexico. "Inventory and Feeding Habits of Acaros
Canestrimidae in 15 Species of Chrysomelidae-Cassimidae
(Insecta)," with Donald M. Windsor, from July 3 to
September 30, 1989.

Rosana Dosman, Exxon Fellow, Universiy of Panama. "“Variacion
Genetica de la Poblacion de Hydrilla verticillata (L.F.)
Royle en el Lago Gatun," with Harilaos Lessios and Jorge
Briceno, from October 10, 1988 to January 10, 1989.

Idalia Fernandez, Exxon Fellow, University of Panama. “Nutricion
de’ Larvas de Mitrax spinosissimus," with John Christy, from
January 2 to November 15, 1989.

Natalia Gomez, Exxon Fellow, University of Bath. “Chemically
Mediated Morphogenesis and Army Ant Raid Pattern," with
Hindrik Wolda and Egbert G. Leigh Jr., from June 22 to
September 30, 1989.

Alejandro Farji, Short-Term Fellow, University of Buenos Aires.
"Dinamica Espacial de la Busqueda y Explotacion de Parches
Nuevos en Atta cephalotes," with Donald M. Windsor, from
August 1 to October 31, 1989.

Carlos Fitzgerald, Short-Term Fellow, Hunter College, City
University of New York. "Analisis Zooarqueologico de
Muestras de El Cano, Panama Central," with Richard Cooke,
from January 1 to June 30, 1989.

Juan Dieqo Lopez, Short-Term Fellow, Universidad Javeriana.
“Predatory Fishes Trophyodynamics of Crab Larvae
(Brachyura) on Rock Intertidal and Estuarine Environments,"
with D. Ross Robertson, from April 1 to September 30, 1989.
Martin E. Mitre, Exxon Fellow, University of Panama.
"Descomposicion y Relacion Longitud-Peso de Hydrilla
verticillata en Poblaciones de la Isla de Barro Colorado,
Lago Gatun," with Mireya Correa, from October 10, 1988 to
Uy sh eS

Abdiel Rodriguez, Exxon Fellow, University of Panama.

"Inventario Herpetologico de la Serrania del Tute," with A.

Stanley Rand and V. Martinez, from October 10, 1988 to
Marnchins ls 1989).

Pedro Zapata, Exxon Fellow, University of Panama. “Nutricion de
Larvas del Mithrax Spinossisimus," with John Christy, from

February 1 to November 15, 1989.

INTERNSHIPS AND OTHER APPOINTMENTS

The Smithsonian offers internships and other appointments to visiting undergraduate
and graduate students and museum professionals. The interns—listed by bureau or
office—in this Appendix began their appointments between October 1, 1988, and Sep-
tember 30, 1989. Holders of special awards and participants in special programs are so
listed. Where possible, the institutions attended, a brief description of the project under-
taken, and the duration of the appointment are given for each intern.

BUSINESS MANAGEMENT OFFICE

Colleen McCracken, Bachelors Candidate, James Madison University. Product

Development/Licensing, assisted in market research and product development,
May 15, 1989 through August 18, 1989

Alessandra Yi, Bachelors Candidate, James Madison University. Product

Development/Licensing, conducted collections research for product
development, May 30, 1989 through August 18, 1989.

INTERNATIONAL CENTER

Mark Bartley, Bachelors Candidate, Howard University. Caribbean Festival Arts

exhibition, assisted with graphics design and installation of the exhibition, April
17 through June 2, 1989.

Michael Bruchmann, Bachelors Degree. Foreign Affairs, reviewed and synthesized

information on interrelationship of environmental and economic issues,
September 18, 1989 through December 31, 1989.

Angela Erdrich, Bachelors Degree. Quincentenary Planning Office, conducted

research for the American Indian Outreach Project, March 13, 1989 through
June 7, 1989.

Julia Gomez, Bachelors Candidate, Dartmouth College. Quincentenary Program,

performed research; assisted with newsletter, March 27, 1989 through June 9,
_ 1989.
Sarah Joseph, Bachelors Candidate, Howard University. Caribbean Festival Arts

exhibition, assisted with graphics design and installation of the exhibition, May
15 through June 2, 1989.

Christopher McIntyre, Bachelors Degree. Quincentenary Program, assisted in the
production of the Quincentenary Program newsletter, July 10, 1989 through
September 1, 1989.

Rudolph Mendes, Bachelors Candidate, Howard University. Caribbean Festival Arts
exhibition, assisted with graphics design and installation of the exhibition, May
15, through June 2, 1989.

Vincent Miller, Bachelors Candidate, Howard University. Caribbean Festival Arts
exhibition, assisted with graphics design and installation of the exhibition, May
15, through June 2, 1989.

Wendy Mingin, Bachelors Candidate, Virginia Polytechnic Institution and State
University. Quincentenary Planning Office, assisted work with databases and

with various Quincentenary projects, February 6, 1989 through April 28, 1989.
Brenda Mveng, Masters Candidate, Howard University. Caribbean Festival Arts

exhibition, assisted with graphics design and installation of the exhibition, April
17, through June 2, 1989.

Heidi Nielsen, Bachelors Candidate, Ohio State University. Man and the Biosphere
Program, assisted in developing the program newsletter, June 12, 1989 through
September 1, 1989.

Michaela Pilar-Brown, Bachelors Candidate, Howard University. Caribbean Festival
Arts exhibition, assisted with graphics design and installation of the exhibition,
May 15, through June 2, 1989.

Angela Puig, Bachelors Degree. Quincentenary Program, assisted the Quincentenary

Program with photo archive and library research, July 5, 1989 through August
31551989.

Nadia Rabesahala, Bachelors Candidate, George Mason University. Office of
International Relations, developed programs and guidelines to support the data

base_project_and developed background for the Madagascar programs, August
2, 1989 through December 15, 1989.

Rodney Reynolds, Bachelors Candidate, Howard University. Caribbean Festival Arts

exhibition, assisted with graphics design and installation of the exhibition, May
15, through June 2, 1989.

James Sharper, Bachelors Candidate, Howard University. Caribbean Festival Arts

exhibition, assisted with graphics design and installation of the exhibition, May
15, through June 2, 1989.

JOSEPH .HENRY PAPERS
Cassandra Kniffin, Bachelors Candidate, Yale University. Conducted research for

current and future volumes of The Papers of Joseph Henry, June 6, 1989
through July 26, 1989.

78
NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK

Ilze Berzins, PhD. Pathology, received training in Pathology, June 19, 1989 through
September 30, 1989.

Agustus Bosley, Jr., Bachelors Candidate, Howard University. Department of
Mammalogy, conducted ethno-botany research, October 17, 1988 through
April 1, 1989.

Kyra Caspary, High School Graduate. Golden Lion Tamarin Project, participated in
"Intern ’89," the Office of Elementary and Secondary Education’s national
summer internship program, July 10, 1989 through August 11, 1989.

Caron DeLancy, Bachelors Candidate, Howard University. Department of
Mammalogy, conducted ethno-botany research, October 17, 1988 through
April 1, 1989.

Jennine Gardiner, Bachelors Candidate, Northern Virginia Community College.
Office of Design and Exhibits Planning, assisted with photographic archival
preservation, November 1, 1988 through December 31, 1988.

Renita Jagan, Masters Candidate, Hood College. Invertebrates, assisted with the

cuttlefish breeding program and daily operations of department, January 1,
1989 through February 28, 1989.
Robert Lee, Bachelors Candidate, Georgetown University School of Medicine.

Worked on developing artificial insemination techniques in the domestic ferret

which can be used to enlarge the population of the rare black-footed ferret,
June 5, 1989 through August 25, 1989.

Natalie Marine, Bachelors Candidate, American University. Office of Design and
Exhibits Planning, organized and archived photo collection using proper
preservation techniques, February 27, 1989 through January 31, 1990.

Nancy McCorpin, High School Graduate. Small Mammal House, participated in
"Intern ’89," the Office of Elementary and Secondary Education’s national
summer internship program, July 10, 1989 through August 11, 1989.

Wayne Salvador, Jr., High School Graduate. Department of Animal Health,

participated in "Intern ’89," the Office of Elementary and Secondary

Education’s national summer internship program, June 5, 1989 through July 7,
1989.

Mark Stickney, High School Graduate. Small Mammal House, participated in
"Intern 789," the Office of Elementary and Secondary Education’s national
summer internship program, June 5, 1989 through July 7, 1989.

Melissa Thornley, High School Graduate. Publications Office, participated in
"Intern ’89," the Office of Elementary and Secondary Education’s national
summer internship program, June 5, 1989 through July 7, 1989.

Shawn Tolman, High School Graduate. Golden Lion Tamarin Project, participated in
"Intern 89," the Office of Elementary and Secondary Education’s national
summer internship program, June 5, 1989 through July 7, 1989.

Eric Van Kirk, High School Graduate. Primate House, participated in "Intern ’89,"

the Office of Elementary and Secondary Education’s national summer
internship program, June 5, 1989 through July 7, 1989.
Dianna Yankee, High Schoo] Graduate. Invertebrate Exhibits, participated in

"Intern ’89," the Office of Elementary and Secondary Education’s national
summer internship program, July 10, 1989 through August 11, 1989.

SMITHSONIAN ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH CENTER

Sarah Barnum, Bachelors Degree. Studied interactions between plants and mammals
in_a forest ecosystem, August 28, 1989 through March 23, 1989.

Denise D’Abundo, Bachelors Degree. Conducted research on the effects of rising
carbon dioxide concentrations on vegetation and ecosystem_ processes,
September 11, 1989 through December 15, 1989.

Elizabeth Dolph, Bachelors Candidate, Whitman College. Conducted research on
microzooplankton grazing on flourescently labeled algea, May 22, 1989 through
July 28, 1989.

Heather Lair, Bachelors Candidate, Miami University. Studied acid deposition and its
impact upon geochemistry, May 15, 1989 through August 25, 1989.

Mary Lammert, Bachelors Candidate, Yale University. Lead participants on nature
trails through forest, field and marshland and canoe tours of Muddy Creek and
surrounding wetlands. Also assisted teachers in conducting activities that teach
basic ecologic concepts., May 22, 1989 through August 4, 1989.

Earl Larson, Bachelors Degree. Conducted research on "Estuarine Fish Biology",
February 13, 1989 through May 10, 1989.

Eugene Mei, Bachelors Candidate, University of California, Berkeley. Studied the
forest canopy to understand the biota environment and ecology of the tree
tops, September 11, 1989 through December 22, 1989.

Corinne Miles, Bachelors Degree. Documented floristic and structural changes in

vegetation during forest development, August 28, 1989 through October 13,
1989.

Stacey Morgan, Bachelors Candidate, Arizona State University. Studied the
community structure and population dynamics of phytoplankton in a estuary,
June 5, 1989 through August 11, 1989.

Mary Poteet, Bachelors Candidate, North Carolina State University. Examined
complex interactions within a model food web containing representative fishery

species and common forage species, May 8, 1989 through August 25, 1989.
Mark Van Oorschot, Bachelors Degree. Studied nitrogen and phosphorus miner-

alization in mparian ecosystems, April 3, 1989 through August 18, 1989.

Ana Villegas, Bachelors Degree. Conducted research on the effects of rising carbon

dioxide concentration on vegetation and ecosystem processes, April 17, 1989
through July 7, 1989.

Wendy Wagner, Bachelors Candidate, Drew University. Studied habitat utilization by
migratory warblers, June 5, 1989 through August 25, 1989.

James Watkins, Bachelors Degree. Studied the release of nutrients from subtidal
sediments, June 5, 1989 through September 15, 1989.

80
Pamela Westgate, Bachelors Candidate, Hampshire College. Studied the forest

canopy to understand the biota, environment and ecology of the tree tops, May

29, 1989 through September 1, 1989.
Steven Wu, Bachelors Candidate, Harvard College. Studied ecological factors

regulating abundance and distribution of juvenile blue crabs as a limiting life

stage for the fishery in upper Chesapeake Bay, June 5, 1989 through
September 8, 1989.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION ARCHIVES

Lisa Carlucci, Masters Candidate, University of Maryland. Arranged and described

the Division of Mammals Biographical Files and other collections, October 3,
1988 through May 19, 1989.

Elizabeth Joffrion, Masters Degree. Conducted research on the Oral History Project
and Video History Project, July 10, 1989 through September 15, 1989.
Monica Von Drasek, Bachelors Candidate, University of Maryland. Photo Survey

Project, completed an archival project to rehouse, arrange and describe

architectural drawings from the collections, January 9, 1989 through
September 30, 1989.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION LIBRARIES

Zoe Lindsay, High School Graduate. Museum Reference Center, participated in
"Intern 789," the Office of Elementary and Secondary Education’s national
summer internship program, July 10, 1989 through August 11, 1989.

Robert McBride, Masters Candidate, George Mason University. Special Collections,

created an inventory of Audubon matenals, November 8, 1988 through
February 1, 1989.

SMITHSONIAN TROPICAL RESEARCH INSTITUTE

Denise Alvarez, Bachelors Degree. Barro Colorado Island, analyzed the ecological

consequences of structure-physiology relationships of cotyledons through

comparison of various tropical woody species, July 3, 1989 through
September 25, 1989.

Fernando Arosemena, Bachelors Degree. Barro Colorado Island, monitored

population dynamics and habitat use in birds and ecology of vertebrates of

forest undergrowth on BCI and Gigante Peninsula, July 24, 1989 through
October 15, 1989.
Sandra Bos, Bachelors Degree. Ancon, assisted with the population genetics and
avian extinction Tropical Forest Isolate project, May 1, 1989 through

Ewa Nowacka Chian, Bachelors Degree. Archaeology Laboratory, cleaned, mended
and measured human skeletons from two archaeological sites in Central
Panama, October 17, 1988 through January 9, 1989.

Roberto Cordero, Bachelors Degree. Barro Colorado Island, assisted with a study
measuring photosynthesis, respiration and transpiration of tropical forest plants,
January 1, 1989 through March 31, 1989.

Janna Ellingson, Phd Candidate, University of Texas. Gamboa, assisted in a study of
reproductive behavior and communication in physalaemus pustulosus, June 30,
1989 through August 31, 1989.

Yolanda Gamarra, Bachelors Degree. Gamboa, assisted in a project to study the
evolution of sexual dimorphism in Neotropical pseudoscorpions, January 16,
1989 through April 16, 1989.

Pedro Lozada, Bachelors Degree. Entomological Laboratory, assisted with the
taxonomic study of Cicadellinae project, May 1, 1989 through July 31, 1989.
July 31,° 1989:

Viterbo Rodriguez, Bachelors Degree. Ancon and Barto Colorado Island, conducted
research on the reproductive biology of Chelymorpha alternans, July 3, 1989
through September 25, 1989.

Oris Sanjur, Bachelors Candidate, Universidad de Panama. Naos Marine Laboratory,
assisted with the protein electrophoresis of fish, sea-urchins, isopods and
gorgonians project, May 1, 1989 through July 24, 1989.

Cibeles Marla Somarriba, Bachelors Degree. Ancon, assisted with the functional

morphology of male and female reproductive systems as it relates to the
mechanism of sperm precedence in the tortoise beetle, Chelymorpa alternans,
January 16, 1989 through April 14, 1989.

Mario Sousa, Bachelors Degree. Ancon, assisted in a study involving Urania moths

and their larval food plant, Omphalea diandra, January 15, 1989 through April
15, 1989.

Jesus Armando Ugalde, Bachelors Degree. Assisted with research on the precedence
of spermatozoids of two species of Altica, September 1, 1988 through
December 1, 1988.

Paolino Velotti, Bachelors Degree. San Blas Field Station, assisted with research on
environmental variation in colony morphology and behavior of Manicina
areolata (Linneaus), October 7, 1988 through December 31, 1988.

Luis Manuel Vargas, Bachelors Candidate, Universidad de Panama. Barro Colorado

Island, provided research support for preparation of illustrated flora of

seedlings of Panamanian moist forest with emphasis on Barro Colorado, April
3, 1989 through July 10, 1989.

ANACOSTIA MUSEUM

LaNeysa Harris, Masters Candidate, University of Washington, Seattle. Education,
developed audio tape and conducted educational activities for "The Real
McCoy: African-American Inventors and Innovator, 1619-1930" exhibition, June
12, 1989 through August 18, 1989.

Tressa Wood, High School Graduate. Education, participated in "Intern ’89," the
Office of Elementary and Secondary Education’s national summer internship
program, June 5, 1989 through July 7, 1989.

ARCHIVES OF AMERICAN ART

Jenny Hoffman, Bachelors Candidate, Emory University. Prepared descriptions of
Archives’ collections containing information about the inter-relationship between

French and American art, as preparation for a guide to be published in 1990,
June 20, 1989 through August 11, 1989.

Frederick LaManna, Bachelors Candidate, American University. Studied collections
and prepared description for inclusion in a guide to French-American sources
in the holdings, September 15, 1989 through December 12, 1989.

Amy McIntyre, Bachelors Candidate, American University. Prepared descriptions of
Archives’ collections containing information about the inter-relationship between

French and American art, as preparation for a guide to be published in 1990,
February 2, 1989 through April 30, 1989.

Kathryn Nowicki, Bachelors Candidate, Gettysburg College. Studied collections and
prepared description for inclusion in a guide to French-American sources in the
holdings, September 15, 1989 through December 15, 1989.

Olga Ulloa-Herrera, Masters Degree. Prepared descriptions of Archives’ collections
containing information about the inter-relationship between French and

American art, as preparation for a guide to be published in 1990, May 10, 1989
through August 25, 1989.

ARTHUR M. SACKLER GALLERY AND FREER GALLERY OF ART

Sandra Antholt, Bachelors Candidate, Mount Holyoke College. Office of Public
Affairs, prepared an archive on "A Jeweler’s Eye: Islamic Arts of the Book
from the Vever Collection" exhibition, January 3, 1989 through
January 24, 1989.

Susan Antholt, Bachelors Candidate, Mount Holyoke College. Office of Public
Affairs, archived publicity for "Timur and The Prncely Vision: Persian Art and
Culture in the 15th Century" and other exhibits, May 24, 1989 through
August 15, 1989.

Cristina Firouz, Bachelors Candidate, Corcoran School of Art. Design and
Production, assisted in production of graphic artwork and illustration for special
exhibitions, July 5, 1989 through September 1, 1989.

Linda Kleeman, Bachelors Candidate, Oberlin College. Chinese Art, assisted with
collection management and research, January 5, 1989 through January 30, 1989.

Elizabeth Krebs, Bachelors Candidate, College of William and Mary. Chinese Art,
assisted in basic research on Chinese Art collections and in answering public
inquiries, May 15, 1989 through July 2, 1989.

Lorna Kundert, Masters Candidate, University of Maryland. Library, gained
experience in cataloging, September 5, 1989 through December 12, 1989.

Andrew Leung, Masters Candidate, New York University Institute of Fine Arts.
Assisted with Gellatly Collection and Kizil Frescof fragments, June 6, 1989
through September 8, 1989.

Jodi Lox, Bachelors Candidate, Yale University. American Art, researched Peacock
Room decoration, Whistler’s design and decoration’s influence on Anglo-
American decorative arts, June 6, 1989 through August 14, 1989.

Sharon Misik, Masters Candidate, George Washington University. Education
Department, studied museum interpretation, January 9, 1989 through April 20,
1989.

Shaalini Ranasinghe, Bachelors Candidate, McGill University.

Prepared materials for school and public programs held in association with The
The Noble Partch exhibition, June 5, 1989 through August 18, 1989.

Beng-Meng Sun, Masters Candidate, University of Maryland. Library, assisted with
cataloging duties, September 11, 1989 through December 1, 1989.

Ching-Ming Tzu, Masters Candidate, University of Maryland. Library, assisted with
library administration, January 31, 1989 through May 10, 1989.

Kim Umemoto, Bachelors Candidate, Tufts University. Office of Public Affairs,
assisted in preparation of press material and mailing list for "Yani: The Brush
of Innocence," May 20, 1989 through June 23, 1989.

Eunice Verstegen, Bachelors Candidate, University of Washington. Public Affairs,

assisted with archiving exhibits and with media contacts, September 11, 1989
through December 15, 1989.

CONSERVATION ANALYTICAL LABORATORY

Priscilla Anderson, Bachelors Candidate, Yale University. Surveyed, treated and
conducted research on paper collections, June 16, 1989 through August 11,
1989.

Carrie Beyer, Masters Candidate, George Washington University. Surveyed, treated
and conducted research on paper collections, June 16, 1989 through July 28,
1989.

Andrea Bowes, Bachelors Candidate, Sir Sandford Fleming College. Textile
Conservation, received practical training on various topics including exhibition

preparation, cleaning, dyeing for restoration and dye analysis, September 1,
1989 through April 30, 1990.

84
John Childs, Bachelors Degree. Conducted research on consolidants for plaster
archaeological objects, October 31, 1988 through June 30, 1989.
Shannon Elliott, Bachelors Degree. Worked on the Flag Preservation Project:

examined, cataloged, restored, treated and conducted research on wool flags
from 19th Century, June 5, 1989 through August 11, 1989.

LaTasha Harrtis, Bachelors Candidate, Philadelphia College of Textiles and Science.
Conservation, worked in the Textile Conservation Laboratory in conjunction
with the wool flag project, June 5, 1989 through August 25, 1989.

Philippe Lafargue, Masters Candidate, Ecole Boulle. Characterized materials

pertinent to the discipline of furniture conservation and application of this
theoretical knowledge to that discipline, June 1, 1989 through August 31, 1989.
Muhammadin Razak, Visiting Museum Professional, National Museum of Indonesia.
Textiles, prepared dyes for Schweppe Dye Analysis Course, June 1, 1989
through September 15, 1989.
Helen Young, Masters Candidate, University of Delaware. Surveyed, treated and

conducted research on paper collections, June 16, 1989 through August 11,
1989.

COOPER-HEWITT MUSEUM OF DESIGN AND DECORATIVE ARTS

Lisa Agosto, Bachelors Degree. Library, assisted with collection maintenance and

reviewed and itemized collection of auction catalogs, July 5, 1989 through
August 25, 1989.

Jennifer Bahssin, Bachelors Candidate, State University of New York at Purchase.

Drawings and Prints, assisted with inventory and cataloging of collection,
September 11, 1989 through December 21, 1989.

Assunta del] Priore, Bachelors Degree. Edinburgh University. Director’s Office,
researched the Carnegie Mansion and the history of 19th century art historical

teaching in Amencan and performed archival work for new introductory gallery,

June 12, 1989 through August 18, 1989.

Sarah Dove, Masters Degree. Paper Conservation, performed research project in
Paper conservation, July 1, 1989 through June 30, 1989.

Fennemiek Gommer, Bachelors Candidate, Academie voor Beeldende Kunsten.
Exhibition Design, assisted with exhibition installation, October 3, 1988 through
December 14, 1988.

Ingrid Kummer, Museum Professional, Museum Fur Angewandte Kunst.
Development Office, conducted research for "L’Art de Vivre" exhibition
November 7, 1988 through April 24, 1989.

Ann Leibowitz, Bachelors Degree. Decorative Arts, conducted research for "L’Art de
Vivre" exhibition, November 9, 1988 through April 1, 1989.

Gwen Loeffler, Bachelors Candidate, Adelphi University. Development Office,
conducted fundraising activities, January 3, 1989 through May 1, 1989.

Susanne Loomis, Bachelors Degree. Drawings and Prints, assisted with
collection management, January 3, 1989 through May 31, 1989.

,
85
Esther Methe, Masters Degree. Textiles, assisted with textile conservation, October 3,
1988 through October 1, 1989.

Sandee Miller, Bachelors Degree. Paper Conservation, assisted in
paper conservation, June 12, 1989 through August 18, 1989.

Caroline Naphegyi, Bachelors Candidate, Ecole du Louvre. Decorative Arts,

Conducted research in cataloging collection and exhibitions, July 10, 1989
through August 31, 1989.

Monika Platzer, Bachelors Degree. Drawings and Prints, assisted installation planning
of "Views of Rome" exhibition, researched Wiener Werkstatte Textile

Collection, and assisted in archival cataloguing and collection management,
June 12, 1989 through August 18, 1989.

Ann Portell, Bachelors Candidate, University of Pennsylvania. Textiles and Library,

conducted textile research and assisted library management, June 5, 1989
through July 28, 1989.

Alison Prendiville, Bachelors Degree. Director’s Office, researched Calder sculpture
in New_York for exhibition brochure, May 7, 1989 through September 8, 1989.

Tricia Rose, Bachelors Degree. Library, organized museum’s vertical file of clippings
and pamphlets, June 12, 1989 through August 18, 1989.
Tamara Schlesinger, Bachelors Candidate, Columbia University.

Decorative Arts, assisted with collections management, January 3, 1989 through
January 20, 1989.

Laura Shoaf, High School, Miss Porters School. Textiles and Library, assisted with

photography of collection and library management, January 4, 1989 through
February 2, 1989.

Jomo Simmons, Bachelors Degree. Library, assisted with collections maintenance and

reviewed and itemized collection of auction catalogs, July 5, 1989 through
August 25, 1989.

Nancy Turrell, Bachelors Candidate, New York University. Development Office,

conducted fundraising research, January 24, 1989 through May 31, 1989.
Craig Van Blarcom, Bachelors Candidate, St. Olaf College. Development Office,

researched funding prospect_and assisted with membership services,
June 12, 1989 through August 18, 1989.

HIRSHHORN MUSEUM AND SCULPTURE GARDEN

Michelle Arkin, Bachelors Candidate, Bryn Mawr College. Education, performed
various tasks such as working with docents, assisting in the development of

educational materials and learning to give tours, June 5, 1989 through
August 11, 1989.

Veronique Bernard, Masters Degree. Education, worked on tours and all aspects of
the Department of Education, July 6, 1989 through August 15, 1989.

Christina Hough, Bachelors Degree. Public Information, assisted in writing press
releases, working openings, and helping with a seminar on museum work and
training, June 12, 1989 through August 18, 1989.

86
Bonnie Kramer, Bachelors Degree. Exhibits, assisted in arranging and exhibiting

works of art_ and learned about labelling methods and dry mounting,
June 19, 1989 through August 18, 1989.

Brenda Plakans, Bachelors Candidate, University of Iowa. Curatorial Department,
assisted curators Valerie Fletcher and Judith Zilczer with research on
permanent collection archives, June 12, 1989 through August 18, 1989.

Christine Splinter, Masters Candidate, University of Bonn. Education,
assisted with teaching docents, February 22, 1989 through April 15, 1989.

NATIONAL AIR AND SPACE MUSEUM

Richard Boyd II, Associates Candidate, Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University.

Preservation/Restoration Division, assisted with preservation/restoration

projects in support of museum’s collections management program, January 17,
1989 through August 18, 1989.

Stefanie Brachfeld, Bachelors Candidate, University of Rochester. Center for Earth
and Planetary Studies, researched origin of modern surface features from
Viking orbiter data, June 12, 1989 through August 11, 1989.

Robert Brazzle, Bachelors Candidate, Bucknell University. Laboratory for
Astrophysics, assisted in analysis of astronomical data on star formation and
active galaxies and participated in laboratory tests using infrared _and optical
techniques, June 5, 1989 through August 11, 1989.

Kristine Conner, Bachelors Candidate, University of Pennsylvania. Public Affairs,

prepared weekly news digest and assisted with promotion of new exhibition

openings and Apollo 11 Twentieth Anniversary activities,
June 5, 1989 through August 11, 1989.

Timothy Cronen, Bachelors Candidate, Belmont Abbey College. Information

Management Division, assisted with standardization of NASM’s computer
database for videodisc photographs of aerospace personalities and aircraft and

with NASM’s special subject collections, June 5, 1989 through August 11, 1989.
Christopher Damrosch, Bachelors Candidate, University of Maryland. Aeronautics

Department, worked with data on the NASM aircraft model collections , June
5, 1989 through August 11, 1989.

Guillaume de Syon, Masters Candidate, George Washington University. Aero-
nautics Department, assisted with obtaining, accessioning, preserving, and

storing artifacts such as flight clothing, memorabilia, and armament, January 17,
1989 through April 18, 1989.

John Eckstine, Masters Candidate, George Washington University. Collections
Maintenance, assisted with a reconciliation of the Registrar’s records with the
artifact inventory records, January 3, 1989 through March 31, 1989.

Kelly Evans, Bachelors Candidate, Texas A&M. Archives, reviewed and repaired
microfilm, cross-checked indexes, reorganized and rehoused drawings collections
and prepared processing plans, September 11, 1989 through November 20,
1989,
Robert Flanagan, Bachelors Degree. Exhibits, designed and produced posters,
publications, and general signage, September 11, 1989 through December 11,
1989.

Kristin Gannett, Bachelors Candidate, Wartburg College. Information Management,
assisted in standardization of NASM’s computer database for videodisc

photographs of aerospace personalities and aircraft and special subject
collection, June 5, 1989 through August 11, 1989.

Renee Geary, Bachelors Candidate, Gallaudet University. Photography Laboratory,
assisted daily operations, January 23, 1989 through May 2, 1989.

Lily Giordano, Bachelors Candidate, Yale University. Aeronautics Department,
assisted with research on WWI aircraft collection, particularly French aircraft,
June 5, 1989 through August 11, 1989.

Terry Hammond, Masters Degree. Art Unit, researched copynght status of NASM’s
art collection, July 5, 1989 through August 11, 1989.

Christy Hesby, Bachelors Candidate, Mary Washington College. Information
Management Division, assisted in the accessioning of donations to the
Museum’s collections, January 17, 1989 through April 24, 1989.

Gaochang Huang, Masters Candidate, George Mason University. Office Automation
and Information Management, assisted with inventory of software and hardware
and with novel network installation, June 5, 1989 through August 11, 1989.

Sir Johnson, High School, Crossland High School. Collections Maintenance, assisted
with artifact inventory and restoration of artifacts, July 11, 1989 through
August 22, 1989.

Victoria Johnson, Associates Candidate, Embry-Riddle Aeronautics University.

Preservation/Restoration Division, assisted_in restoration and preservation of air

and spacecraft in NASM collections, May 22, 1989 through August 18, 1989.
Francis Kiger III, Bachelors Candidate, West Chester University. Center for Earth

and Planetary Studies, mapped tectonic features of the floor of the Olympus

Mons Caldera and constructed a digital mosaic using high-resolution Viking
orbiter images, June 5, 1989 through July 28, 1989.

Lutz Koppen. Bachelors Candidate, George Washington University. Collections
Maintenance Division, worked with data on the NASM aircraft model
collections, June 5, 1989 through August 11, 1989.

Robert Leach, Bachelors Degree. Exhibits Production, applied graphic art_matemals
to_exhibits areas and structures, January 17, 1989 through March 2, 1989.

Rebecca Leake, Bachelors Candidate, Virginia Polytechnical Institute and State

University. NASM Archives, assisted with repair and preservation of microfilm,
and review of Wright Field Collections, June 5, 1989 through August 11, 1989.
Allison Levy, Bachelors Candidate, Tulane University. Office of Education, Produced
artwork for various projects, including slide sets, brochures and workshop
packages, June 12, 1989 through July 31, 1989.
Michael Liu, Bachelors Candidate, Cornell University. Space History and Center for

Earth and Planetary Studies, researched the technology of satellite design and

mapped tectonic features of the floor of the Olympus Mons Caldera,
June 5, 1989 through August 11, 1989.

88
Mark Lott, Bachelors Candidate, Gallaudet University. Archives, assisted with repair
and preservation of microfilm and reorganization of aircraft drawings,
June 5, 1989 through August 12, 1989.

Timothy Maloy, Masters Candidate, University of Maryland. Restoration/Preservation

Division, assisted with preservation and restoration program, assembly of air

and spacecraft artifacts, installation of artifacts and machining, welding, fabric
work and chemical cleaning, June 5, 1989 through August 11, 1989.

Ellen Mansfield, Masters Candidate, Gallaudet University. Exhibits Production and

Design, designed sign system for Arts and Industries Building and assisted with

installation of new gallery and silkscreening for interpretive panels, January 17,
1989 through August 11, 1989.

Trina Maslowski, Bachelors Candidate, Corcoran School of Art. Department of

Exhibits, assisted in typesetting label scripts, proofreading galleys, updating

computer records and making photostats, June 5, 1989 through
August 11, 1989.

John McGinnis, Bachelors Candidate, Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University.
Preservation/Restoration, performed tasks of a technical nature, September 11,
1989 through December 11, 1989.

Kevin McKeon, High School Graduate. Preservation/Restoration, participated in

!

‘Intern ’89," the Office of Elementary and Secondary Education’s national

summer internship program, July 10, 1989 through
August 11, 1989.

Richard Murphy, Bachelors Candidate, Centenary College. Archives, assisted in repair
and preservation of microfilm, reorganization of aircraft drawings and review of
Wright Field Collections, June 5, 1989 through August 11, 1989.

Michael O’Campo, High School Graduate. Office of Plant Services, participated in

‘Intern ’89," the Office of Elementary and Secondary Education’s national
summer internship program, July 10, 1989 through August 11, 1989.

Scott Ortman, Bachelors Candidate, Stanford University. Collections Maintenance,
assisted with preservation of NASM aircraft engine and collections,

June 19, 1989 through September 19, 1989.

Carol Patt, Masters Candidate, University of Maryland. Library, assisted with
evaluation of the quality and value of the Library collection, January 17, 1989
through May 5, 1989.

Daniel Pendick, Bachelors Candidate, State University of New York at Binghamton.

Office of Museum Programs, researched appropriate films for NASM’s

Strategic Bombing Program and the Space Fiction Film Series, June 5, 1989
through August 11, 1989.

Radhika Philip, Bachelors Candidate, Smith College. Collections Management,
prepared label text for artifacts at the Paul E. Garber Facility, January 4, 1989
through February 1, 1989.

Thomas Ratcliffe, High Schoo] Graduate. Space History Department, participated in

‘Intern ’89," the Office of Elementary and Secondary Education’s national
summer internship program, June 5, 1989 through July 7, 1989.
William Robie, Masters Candidate, East Carolina University. Aeronautics, prepared

Morehouse Geographics for publication, September 11, 1989 through December
11, 1989.
Thomasina Sai-Yee Seah, Bachelors Candidate, Gallaudet University. Exhibits
Department, designed brochures, programs, and posters, January 17, 1989
through May 2, 1989.

Laurence Shear, Bachelors Candidate, George Washington University. Office
Automation, wrote DBaselll code for museum projects and assisted personal
computer users, October 11, 1988 through May 5, 1989.

Alex Spencer, Masters Candidate, Pennsylvania State University. Aeronautics, worked
on Sherman Fairchild Archives and upgraded aerial photographic archives,
September 11, 1989 through November 20, 1989.

Kevin Sturgill, High School Graduate. Preservation/Restoration, participated in
"Intern ’89," the Office of Elementary and Secondary Education’s national
summer internship program, June 5, 1989 through
July 7, 1989.

Leikun Teferra, Masters Candidate, University of Maryland. Science and Exploration,
conducted research on the space history of the Soviet Union, February 6, 1989
through December 11, 1989.

Lori Vermaas, Bachelors Candidate, University of Texas at Austin. Space History
Department, assisted in evaluating and modifying software for interactive

computer programs for the "Beyond the Limits" Gallery, June 5, 1989 through
August 11, 1989.

Steven Weidenkopf, High Schoo] Graduate. Archival Support Center, participated in
"Intern 89," the Office of Elementary and Secondary Education’s national
summer internship program, June 5, 1989 through July 7, 1989.

Richard Wirz, Bachelors Candidate, Montreat-Anderson College.
Preservation/Restoration, performed tasks of a technical nature, September 11,
1989 through November 20, 1989.

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AFRICAN ART

Agbenyega Adedze, Masters Degree. Curatorial Department, researched the social
function and aesthetic appreciation of Ewe Textiles, June 12, 1989 through
August 18, 1989.

Indra Caudle, Bachelors Candidate, Howard University. Curatorial Department,
conducted object-orient research on the permanent collection, September 11,
1989 through December 31, 1989.

Karen Fountain, Bachelors Degree. Public Affairs, assisted in promoting educational
activities, organizing special events and developing affairs campaigns, June 5,
1989 through August 4, 1989.

Kendall LaMontagne, Bachelors Candidate, Wellesley College. Archives, Processed
and catalogued vintage postcard collection, June 14, 1989 through
August 31, 1989.

Nuria Madrid, Masters Candidate, George Washington University. Department of

Education Department, conducted research and development of guided tours,
January 17, 1989 through April 21, 1989.

9°
Dafton Njuguna, PhD Candidate, University of California at Los Angeles. Curatorial
Department, reviewed literature on form and phenomena in nomadic
transhumance architecture in sub-saharan Africa, June 19, 1989 through
September 8, 1989.

Heidi Overing, Bachelors Degree. Curatorial Department, conducted research and

prepared materials for future exhibition, February 8, 1989 through June 30,
1989.

Gretchen Primack, Bachelors Candidate, Oberlin College. Department of Education,

conducted research on a single or group of instruments for future exhibition,
December 4, 1988 through January 27, 1989.

Sally Shelburne, Masters Candidate, University of Maryland. Curatorial Department,
conducted research on African art, January 23, 1989 through May 30, 1989.

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART

Dean Adkins, Masters Candidate, George Washington University. Intern Programs,
participated in advanced Jevel museum training program, September 8, 1989
through April 20, 1990.

Stephen Best, Masters Candidate, Williams College. Intern Programs, participated in
advanced level museum training program, September 8, 1989 through April 20,
1990.

Susan Bollendorf, Bachelors Degree. Intern Programs, participated in advanced level
museum training program, September 8, 1989 through April 20, 1990.

Judy Chang, Bachelors Candidate, University of California at Santa Cruz. Graphic
Arts, performed collection management tasks including cataloguing prints and
drawings, reorganizing art works, and archival storage and handling,

June 19, 1989 through September 8, 1989.

Kimberly Cody, Bachelors Degree. Intern Programs, participated in advanced level
museum training program, September 8, 1989 through December 8, 1989.

Ethan Cohen, Bachelors Candidate, Yale University. Design and Production Office,
assisted the Design and Production Office, June 5, 1989 through July 28, 1989.

Mayra Corral, Bachelors Candidate, Georgetown University. Design and Production
Office and Office of Museum Programs, divided time between Design and

Production Office and Office of Museum Programs, June 5, 1989 through
August 25, 1989.

Karen Fix, Bachelors Degree. Office of Research Support, conducted research for
the Inventory of American Paintings, September 25, 1989 through December 1,
1989.

Catherine Groos, Masters Candidate, University of Southern California. Curatorial
Division, assisted the Curatorial Division, January 9, 1989 through April 21,
1989.

Anne Hudson, Bachelors Degree. Library, assisted in general aspects of the Library,
June 5, 1989 through July 28, 1989.

Nina Hval, Bachelors Degree. Intern Programs, participated in advanced level
museum training program, September 8, 1989 through December 31, 1989.
Susannah Jacobson, Bachelors Candidate, Hartwick College. Curatorial Division,
assisted the Curatonal Division, January 9, 1989 through February 3, 1989.

Jacqueline Kodner, Bachelors Degree. Intern Programs, participated in advanced
level museum training program, September 8, 1989 through April 20, 1990.

J’Laine Krueger, Bachelors Degree. Intern Programs, participated in advanced level
museum training program, September 8, 1989 through April 20, 1990.

Margaret Lee, Masters Candidate, University of Texas at Austin. Graphics, assisted
in general aspects of the Department of Graphic Arts collection, June 5, 1989
through July 28, 1989.

Joseph Lucchesi, Masters Degree. Administration, assisted in all aspect of
Administration Division, June 5, 1989 through July 28, 1989.

Catherine Lusheck, Bachelors Degree. Intern Programs, participated in advanced
level museum training programs, September 8, 1989 through April 20, 1990.

Althea Malloy, Bachelors Candidate, College of William and Mary. Registrar,

assisted Rights and Reproduction work, June 5, 1989 through August 25, 1989.
Julie Mann, Bachelors Candidate, Stanford University. Museum Programs, assisted in

developing interpretive materials, June 5, 1989 through August 31, 1989.

Michelle Mead, Bachelors Degree. Curatorial Division, assisted in general aspects of
the Curatorial Division, June 5, 1989 through July 28, 1989.

Kathleen Mosier, Bachelors Candidate, Hiram College. Research Support, assisted in
Development of an inventory of American sculpture, June 5, 1989 through
July 28, 1989.

Marina Moskowitz, Bachelors Candidate, Yale University. Curatorial Division,
assisted in all aspects of the chief curator’s research, June 5, 1989 through
July 21,1989.

Grace Murray, Bachelors Candidate, Wake Forest University. Publications, assisted in
all aspects of the Publications Division, June 5, 1989 through July 28, 1989.

Knistin Norell, Bachelors Candidate, University of Kansas-Lawrence. Curatorial
Division and Museum Programs Division, divided time between the Curatorial
Division and the Museum Programs Division, January 9, 1989 through April 21,
1989.

Stephanie Rieke, Bachelors Candidate, Kenyon College. Curatorial Division, assisted
in_ general aspects of the Curatorial Division, June 5, 1989 through July 28,
1989,

Lesley Roberts, Bachelors Candidate, University of California at Los Angeles. Office
of Research Support, assisted the Office of Research Support, January 9, 1989
through March 24, 1989.

Leisa Rundquist, Bachelors Degree, University of Illinois. Curatorial Division,
assisted in research for newly arrived Mephill collection, June 5, 1989 through
July 28, 1989.

Lynne Schaffer, Masters Candidate, George Washington University. Public Programs
Division, assisted the Public Programs Division, January 9, 1989 through
April 21, 1989.

Martina Schenke, Masters Candidate, Goethe University. Intern Programs,

Participated in advanced level museum training program, September 8, 1989
through April 20, 1990.
Leslie Tate, Masters Candidate, American University. Intern Programs, participated
in_ advanced level museum training program, September 8, 1989 through Apmil
20, 1989.

Anne Walker, High School Graduate. Office of the Registrar, participated in “Intern

>

89," the Office of Elementary and Secondary Education’s national summer
internship program, July 10, 1989 through August 11, 1989.

Nancy Wickham, Bachelors Degree. Public Programs, assisted with development of
public brochures and tours, June 5, 1989 through July 28, 1989.
Stuart Wolffe, Bachelors Candidate, Seton Hall University. Registrar, assisted in

various aspects of the Registrar’s office, June 5, 1989 through July 28, 1989.

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AMERICAN HISTORY

Erin Ackerman, Bachelors Candidate, Smith College. Academic Affairs, conducted
research on the history of representations of New England, September 5, 1989
through December 15, 1989.

Cynthia Agustin, Bachelors Candidate, Smith College. Archives Center, assisted with
the Duke Ellington exhibit, September 5, 1989 through December 15, 1989.

Leanne Albert, Bachelors Candidate, St. Olaf College. First Ladies, conducted
research on two First Ladies, September 21, 1989 through December 15, 1989.

Mary Appel, Bachelors Degree. Archives Center, assisted with the Underwood and
Underwood glass stereograph collection, September 5, 1989 through September
1, 1990.

Michelle Appel, Bachelors Candidate, California State University at Chico.
Conservation, assisted with conservation of Men and Womens exhibit, June 1,
1989 throughAugust 18, 1989.

Paula Artal-Isbrand, Bachelors Degree. Conservation, assisted with rehousing project,
September 12, 1989 through May 15, 1990.

Donna Avedisian, Bachelors Candidate, Tufts University. Registrar, compiled
information about 18th and 19th century pianos, June 6, 1989 through
July 31, 1989.

Myrna Barriatos, Museum Professional. National Museum of the Philippines. Office

of the Registrar, performed collections management including records systems,

object handling and processing and computerization of information, July 10,
1989 through October 15, 1989.

Samuel] Batzli, Masters Candidate, George Washington University. Printing and
Photographic Services, assisted with George Tames collection of photographs,
September 1, 1989 through August 31, 1989.

Tanika Beamon, Bachelors Candidate, University of Pennsylvania. Assisted research

by head of audience research and helped prepare preview gallery for the "The

Information of People, Information and Technology" exhibit, June 5, 1989
through August 11, 1989.

Dana Belcher, Bachelors Candidate, Gettysburg College. Numismatics, rearranged

coins and currency of Alexandria, Egypt from Greek imperial times in Asia
Minor and Asia Proper, September 12, 1989 through December 15, 1989.

Sheri Belcher, Bachelors Candidate, George Mason University. Computers
Information and Society, assisted with the "Information Age" exhibition,
February 7, 1989 through September 1, 1989.

Suzanne Bell, Bachelors Candidate, University of California at Berkeley. Domestic
Life Division, researched youth subcultures in 20th century American and
American home life, June 1, 1989 through August 1, 1989.

Paul Bellis, Bachelors Candidate, College of Wooster. History of Science and
Technology, assisted in research on exhibit dealing with history of science in the

U.S., stressing the social implications of scientific research, June 5, 1989
through August 4, 1989.

Mike Berman, Bachelors Candidate, University of Wisconsin. Social and Cultural
History, performed research, script writing and exhibit maintenance for "Land

of Promise: America in the 19th century,” May 23, 1989 through August 18,
1989.

Amy Bix, PhD Candidate, Johns Hopkins University. History of Science and
Technology, researched and planned for new exhibit "Science in America,"
June 14, 1989 through August 31, 1989.

Laura Blake, Bachelors Candidate, American University. Department of Public

Programs, assisted research and collection of photos, American Sampler

programs, and archiving and cataloging of materials, January 27, 1989 through
May 5, 1989.

Heidi Boncher, Bachelors Candidate, University of Michigan. Electricity and Modern
Physics, collected data for card catalog, prepared photographs and assisted in
conservation tasks, June 1, 1989 through July 31, 1989.

Kourtney Braff, Bachelors Degree. Internship Office, assisted with Desktop
Publishing Intern Newsletter and Pendulum Perspectives, June 6, 1989 through
July 6, 1989.

Laura Branstetter, Bachelors Candidate, New College of U.S.F. Transportation
Division, assisted with exhibit design and construction of Bicycle exhibit, June 5,
1989 through August 10, 1989.

Elizabeth Broadrup, Bachelors Candidate, Williams College. Community Life

Division, performed graphic and bibliographic research for exhibit on children

and the Cold War Era and assisted with exhibit maintenance, cataloguing and
accessioning, June 19, 1989 through August 31, 1989.
Christina Broberg, Bachelors Candidate, Corcoran School of Art. Publications,

assisted in graphic design and production of booklets, flyers, and programs

required by the Department of Public Programs, February 21, 1989 through
May 12, 1989.

Jeffrey Brodie, Bachelors Candidate, University of California, Berkeley. Science and

Technology, assisted with research of various science _and technology projects

using the Smithsonian Archives, the National Archives and the Library of
Congress, May 24, 1989 through August 3, 1989.

Melissa Brown, Bachelors Candidate, Alma College. Office of Public Affairs, acted _as
liasion with curators and exhibit designers, met with film crews, answered calls

and reviewed periodicals and newspapers for information pertinent to the
museum, February 2, 1989 through April 28, 1989.

94
Betsy Buchanan, Bachelors Candidate, Emory and Henry College. Numismatics,
created photographic files including identification check and typing of labels,
March 7, 1989 through May 1, 1989.

Christopher Bunce, High School Graduate. National Numismatics Collection,
participated in "Intern ’89," the Office of Elementary and Secondary

Education’s national Summer internship program, July 10, 1989 through
August 11, 1989.

David Burgevin, Masters Candidate, Virginia Commonwealth University.
Photographic History, assisted with collection management, August 28, 1989
through December 8, 1989.

Kim Butler, Masters Degree. Public Programs, researched and planned for 1990
conference on the African diaspora, June 5, 1989 through August 25, 1989.

Michele Cappelle, Masters Degree. Textiles, researched the patent models of
carpeting in the Dot collection, July 7, 1989 through September 22, 1989.

Lage Carlson, Masters Candidate, Buffalo State College. Conservation Division,
assisted with conservation/preservation of paper objects, March 6, 1989 through
August 11, 1989.

James Carpenter, Bachelors Candidate, Central Wesleyan College. Transportation,
served as research and collections management assistant, September 11, 1989
through December 18, 1989.

Marie Carter, Bachelors Degree. Publications, served _as editorial and production
assistant working on entire publications process, September 25, 1989 through
June 30, 1990.

David Cebula, Masters Candidate, West Virginia University. Transportation, compiled
an index of marine steam engine builders in New York from 1840 through
1860, January 23, 1989 through March 17, 1989.

Sulhee Chung, Bachelors Candidate, Smith College. Science and Technology,

conducted research on the impact _and influence of technological development

on the intellectual history of the United States, September 5, 1989 through
December 15, 1989.

Greta Climer, Bachelors Candidate, Mount Holyoke College. Internship Office,
assisted in coordination and research for the Landmark ’90 conference and the
February Black History Month Conference, June 12, 1989 through
August 4, 1989.

Leslie Clovis, Masters Candidate, Northeastern University. Internship Office,
organized "brown bag" series of weekly lectures and events for interns, June 5,
1989 through September 1, 1989.

Lisa Clyde, Bachelors Candidate, Smith College. Archives Center, conducted research

on the history of advertising, September 5, 1989 through December 15, 1989.
Anna Coatsworth, Bachelors Candidate, Mount Holyoke College. Internship Office,
assisted Internship and Fellowship Coordinator, July 3, 1989 through
August 25, 1989.
Jared Cohen, Bachelors Candidate, American University. Education, assisted with

"Field to Factory" Education outreach kits, January 24, 1989 through April 24,
1989.
Hope Connors, Masters Degree. American Indian Program, maintained "The Way to

Independence" exhibition, established "suitcase" a traveling exhibition of native

plants and medicinal plants and assisted with Folklife Festival and Public
Programs Education Coordination, June 12, 1989 through October 17, 1989.

Rebecca Cureton, Masters Candidate, George Washington University. Education,
assisted with projects relating to the Hands on History Room, January 9, 1989
through April 20, 1989.

Colleen Curry, Masters Candidate, George Washington University. Registrar’s Office,
assisted with variety of tasks including administrative functions, off-site storage

and central cataloguing of the 1876 exhibition, May 8, 1989 through June 30,
1989.

Amy Jo Dale, Bachelors Candidate, University of Redlands. Public Affairs, studied
administrative systems necessary for an effective public affairs program,
September 21, 1989 through December 15, 1989.

Daniel Dalrymple, High School Graduate. Archives Center, participated in "Intern

oJ

89," the Office of Elementary and Secondary Education’s national summer
internship program, June 5, 1989 through July 7, 1989.

Margarita Decierdo, Bachelors Degree. Department of History and Department of
Agriculture, researched and transcribed information on Southern agriculture,
June 12, 1989 through September 1, 1989.

Lies] Dees, Bachelors Degree. Musical History, assisted with the Duke Ellington
collection, September 5, 1989 through August 5, 1990.

Margherita Desy, Masters Candidate, George Washington University. Political

History, worked on decorative art objects for the "Ceremonial Court" exhibition

and performed conservation and design work on the First Ladies Case,
January 11, 1989 through May 1, 1989.

Cynthia Dickinson, Bachelors Candidate, Princeton University. Electricity and
Modern Physics, performed basic collections management and preparation of a
historic photo file, June 19, 1989 through August 18, 1989.

Debra Dunbar, Bachelors Candidate, University of California, Davis. Exhibit Design,
served as design assistant for the "Women in the Progressive Era” exhibition,
September 5, 1989 through December 20, 1989.

David Edwards, Bachelors Candidate, Holy Cross College. Academic Affairs, assisted
in preparation of a histonography of the literature about the Pumritans,

January 17, 1989 through May 5, 1989.

Hazel Ervin, Bachelors Candidate, Howard University. American Quarterly, assisted
with editing and layout for American Quarterly, June 5, 1989 through
August 25, 1989.

Lura Erwin, Bachelors Candidate, American University. Exhibit Design, designed scale

drawings for "From Parlor to Politics” exhibition, February 1, 1989 through
April 28, 1989.

96
Marisol Espina-Ruiz, Museum Professional, National Museum of Anthropology of
Mexico. Exhibits, assisted in the design and preparation for an exhibition on
television, January 1, 1989 through May 15, 1989.

Francesca Fazzari, Bachelors Candidate, University of Toronto. History of Science
and Technology, assisted with research in Manast perspective of developmental

technology and with technology exhibit preparation, May 15, 1989 through
August 18, 1989.

Kathleen Fenton, Masters Candidate, George Washington University. Internship
Office, served as assistant internship and fellowship coordinator, January 9,
1989 through March 31, 1989.

Jocelyn File, Bachelors Degree. Armed Forces Division, worked with prints and
photographs in the Division’s collection and helped to maintain the
"A More Perfect Union" exhibition, June 5, 1989 through September 1, 1989.

Amber Finney, High School Graduate. Division of Medical Sciences, participated in
"Intern 789," the Office of Elementary and Secondary Education’s national
summer internship program, July 10, 1989 through August 11, 1989.

Delya Ghosh, High School Graduate. Programs in Popular American Music,

participated in "Intern ’89," the Office of Elementary and Secondary

Education’s national summer internship program, June 5, 1989 through
July 7, 1989.

Leslie Gilltum, High School, Thomas Jefferson High School for Science and
Technology. Political History, assisted with research and organization for
"Women in the Progressive Era” exhibition, June 28, 1989 through July 29,
1989.

Joanne Gipson, Bachelors Degree. Medical Sciences, performed research and

inventory in preparation for the manuscript "Engendering Culture: Manhood

and Womanhood in 1930s Murals, Sculptures, and Theater, June 8, 1989
through August 1, 1989.

Randi Gordan, Bachelors Candidate, Washington State University. Department of

Science and Technology, assisted in a special project for military headgear, a

project for uniforms and in developing a national collection of women’s military
uniforms, May 22, 1989 through August 12, 1989.

Christine Griffin, Bachelors Candidate, Baldwin Wallace College. Internship Office,
assisted Internship and Fellowship Coordinator, June 19, 1989 through
September 1, 1989.

Peter Gustafson, Bachelors Candidate, Houghton College. Political History, identified,
marked, located, and rearranged collections, February 2, 1989 through
April 28, 1989.

Jeffrey Hamley, PhD Candidate, Harvard University. American Indian Program,
researched photographic history of federal Indian boarding school education

during the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries, June 5, 1989 through
August 25, 1989.

Brooke Hartzog, Bachelors Candidate, Smith College. Photography, assisted in the
production of a videodisc concerning the Underwood and Underwood glass
stereographs collection, September 5, 1989 through December 15, 1989.

Katherine Hersperger, Bachelors Candidate, Syracuse University. Publications
Division, assisted in design and editing, production and inventory control of
publications, May 22, 1989 through July 28, 1989.

Elizabeth Heydt, Bachelors Candidate, Purdue University. Electricity and
Modern Physics, assisted in collections management, working with a project to

rehouse specimens collected in the Division of Electricity and Modern Physics,
May 15, 1989 through August 11, 1989.

Julie Hickman, Bachelors Candidate, Baylor University. Public Programs, assisted the
Intern Coordinator, May 15, 1989 through June 16, 1989.

Carrie Higgins, Bachelors Candidate, Gettysburg College. Electricity and Modern
Physics, worked in conservation collection management, exhibit design and on-
line computer data entry, September 21, 1989 through December 15, 1989.

Michelle Ho, High School Graduate. Division of Political History, participated in
"Intern ’89," the Office of Elementary and Secondary Education’s national
summer internship program, July 10, 1989 through August 11, 1989.

Cynthia Holloman, Bachelors Candidate, Auburn University. Armed Forces History,
Participated in special projects to document, photo and rehouse head gear,and

in development of the collection of women’s military uniforms,
June 15, 1989 through August 18, 1989.

Kathleen Horwedel, Bachelors Candidate, Bowling Green State University. Social and
Cultural History and Division of Community of Life, assisted with research and
exhibitions, June 5, 1989 through August 9, 1989.

Erin Hoyt, Bachelors Candidate, Spring Hill College. Education, assisted with
preparation of a new interpreter’s manual for the school tour program,

May 30, 1989 through August 10, 1989.

Maureen Hurley, Bachelors Candidate, University of New Hampshire. Public
Programs, assisted with production of publications, February 2, 1989 through
April 28, 1989.

Elizabeth Joffrion, Masters Degree. Agriculture and Natural Resources, transcribed,
indexed and created finding aide for a series of oral histories conducted with
Southern sharecroppers and farm tenants, September 25, 1989 through June 30,
1990.

Su Kao, Bachelors Candidate, Bryn Mawr College. History of Science and
Technology, catalogued and accessioned approximately 200 over-the-counter
medicines collected in China last year, June 1, 1989 through August 11, 1989.

Mary Kenyon-Sterling, Bachelors Degree. Columbus Quincentenary,
assisted with research and preparation of exhibits, June 19, 1989
through June 1, 1990.

Mark Kessler, Bachelors Degree. Assisted with research for Common Agenda,

June 27, 1989 throug August 25, 1989.

98
Lene Klit, Visiting Professional, Danish National Museum. Conservation Department,
served as assistant to the photographers learning latest photographic, studio
and lab equipment, November 1, 1988 through January 31, 1989.

Lisa Kranthal, Bachelors Degree. Conservation, learned conservation techniques,
September 18, 1989 through June 30, 1990.

Angela Krueger, Bachelors Candidate, Gettysburg College. Armed Forces Division,
Participated in a special project for military headgear and helped to develop a

national collection of women’s military uniforms, May 22, 1989 through
July 28, 1989.

Sanghmitra Kundu, Masters Candidate, Texas Tech Museum. History and
Technology Collections Management, assisted with reinstallation of exhibits
removed for building renovation, May 15, 1989 through August 15, 1989.

Martha La Mason, Bachelors Candidate, Christopher Newport College. Political
History, assisted with final organization and installation of the "Ceremonial
Court" exhibition, January 9, 1989 through March 7, 1989.

Jill Lavigne, Bachelors Candidate, Duke University. Office of Printing and
Photographic Services, assisted with various work in the office, May 30, 1989
through August 4, 1989.

Maureen Lenehan, Bachelors Degree. Numismatics, reorganized the Numismatic
Library photographs, June 5, 1989 through September 1, 1989.

Jennifer Loesel, High Schoo] Graduate. Early Enrichment Center, participated in
"Intern ’89," the Office of Elementary and Secondary Education’s national
summer internship program, July 10, 1989 through August 11, 1989.

Bridget Maley, Bachelors Candidate, Salem College. Ceramics and Glass, assisted in
accessioning a collection of recently acquired ceramics, January 3, 1989 through
January 27, 1989.

David Manning, Bachelors Candidate, Portland State University. Museum Programs,
assisted with publicity for American Sampler, All-American Music and Palm
Court programs, September 12, 1989 through November 30, 1989.

Daniel McCarthy, Bachelors Candidate, University of Oregon. Internship Office,
researched and produced an Internship Catalogue; researched and wrote for
the Newsletter to former interns, April 3, 1989 through June 23, 1989.

Daniel McClure, Bachelors Candidate, Wesleyan University. Archives Center,

conducted a research project with the Duke ae Collection, June 5, 1989
through August 25, 1989.

Laura McGlasson, Bachelors Candidate, American University. Armed Forces History,
updated catalog records on Womens Uniform Collection, January 31, 1989
through May 15, 1989.

Bronwyn McNeill, Bachelors Candidate, Trinity College, University of Dublin.
Military History and Regent’s Fellow, assisted with rehousing, conservation and

collections management of Recruitment Posters in military history, June 19,
1989 through October 1, 1989.

99
Cheryl Megerdigian, Bachelors Degree. Archives Center, archived materials from
various collections, June 7, 1989 through August 4, 1989.

Vicki Meier, Bachelors Candidate. Armed Forces History, participated in a special
project to document, photograph and rehouse military headgear and assisted
with reorganization of uniform collection, May 9, 1989 through August 25, 1989.

Dana Middents, Bachelors Candidate, American University. History of Science and
Technology, assisted with entering graphics into on line catalog and with an
interactive display, June 12, 1989 through July 28, 1989.

Nancy Mitchell, Bachelors Degree. History of Science and Technology, assisted with
Native American Culture resource management, June 26, 1989 through
August 25, 1989.

Todd Mohink, Bachelors Candidate, University of Maryland. Department of Social
and Cultural History, assisted with cataloguing movie objects and with the Men
and Women exhibit, June 19, 1989 through August 11, 1989.

Monica Moore, Bachelors Degree. Division of Musical Instruments, researched black
periodicals to discover black perception of Ellington, June 12, 1989 through
September 1, 1989.

Alexandra Morris, Bachelors Candidate, Cambridge University. Division of Science
and Technology, assisted with arrangement of graphics for communications
exhibit, July 5, 1989 through September 1, 1989.

Matthew Mulcahy, Bachelors Candidate, Macalester College. Division of Community
Life, researched historically black land grant college, May 30, 1989 through
August 31, 1989.

John Murph, Bachelors Degree. Studied Afro-American music and jazz with

emphasis on Duke Ellington’s international tours, June 5, 1989 through August
25% 1989.

Kevin Murphy, Masters Degree. Domestic Life, conducted research of 20th century
American home life and youth culture and assisted with maintenance of current
exhibits and collections, June 1, 1989 through August 31, 1989.

Laura Narcizo, Bachelors Candidate, George Washington University. Internship and
Fellowship Office, served as assistant internship and fellowship coordinator,
September 6, 1989 through December 6, 1989.

Jessie Nicoll, High School, Pittsford Mendon High School. Exhibits Production,
assisted with graphics production, July 17, 1989 through August 31, 1989.
Sylvia O’Macauley, Bachelors Degree. Archives Center, assisted with Duke Ellington

project, June 19, 1989 through September 1, 1989.

Allison Paddlety, Bachelors Candidate, Institute of American Indian Art. Armed
Forces History, assisted staff with daily office work, October 7, 1988 through
December 22, 1988. Graphic Arts, assisted with various work in the division
June 26, 1989 through August 11, 1989.

Sunae Park, Phd. Textiles, Completed descriptions of newly-acquired objects,

continued survey of early 20th-Century fabrics, assisted mounting a Case-of-the |
Month exhibit, April 10, 1989 through July 3, 1989.

100
Pamela Paulien, Bachelors Degree. Exhibits Design, assisted in developing models
and drawings for sections of the "From Parlor to Politics” exhibition,
June 5, 1989 through July 28, 1989.

Stephen Perciful, High School Graduate. Division of Armed Forces, participated in
"Intern ’89," the Office of Elementary and Secondary Education’s national
summer internship program, June 5, 1989 through July 7, 1989.

Lisa Pertillar, Bachelors Candidate, Smith College. Division of Community Life,
assisted in editing and writing annotated bibliography for a gospel music
anthology, June 5, 1989 through August 24, 1989.

Diana Plumer, Bachelors Candidate, Case Western Reserve University. Political
Documents, performed duties as research assistant, June 26, 1989 through
August 4, 1989.

Sarah Prown, Bachelors Degree. Community Life, conducted research and collections
management for an exhibition on the early history of Rock and Roll,
September 5, 1989 through August 31, 1990.

Amanda Quandt, Bachelors Candidate, Taylor University. Public Programs,
obtained film_and video excerpts used in video presentations for two special
exhibitions, January 23, 1989 through May 4, 1989.

Dwandalyn Reece, Masters Degree. Musical History, conducted research for the
Duke Ellington Collection, January 5, 1989 through May 31, 1989.

Sharon Reynolds, Bachelors Candidate, Smith College. Archives Center, assisted with
the Duke Ellington exhibition, September 5, 1989 through December 15, 1989.

William Roche, III, Bachelors Candidate, University of Notre Dame. Design Division,

assisted in research and scale drawing for the "Sesame Street" and the

‘Manufacturing of the M9 Service Handgun," May 31, 1989 through
August 20, 1989.

Janet Rockne, Bachelors Degree. Division of Domestic Life, assisted with research in
20th Century youth subcultures, and with cleaning and numbering of exhibits,
August 1, 1989 through August 1, 1990.

Ivonne Ross, Bachelors Candidate, Montgomery College. Medical Sciences, assisted

in cataloguing accessioning, photographing and entering into computer data

medical objects to be transferred to other locations, June 19, 1989 through
August 18, 1989.

Darren Rydstrom, Bachelors Candidate, Biola University. Agriculture and Natural
Resources, served as research and collections management assistant, September
11, 1989 through December 18, 1989.

Jacqueline Schraud, Masters Candidate, Armed Services
History, catalogued women’s uniforms and studied women on frontier army
posts, June 1, 1989 through August 1, 1989.

Susan Schroeder, Bachelors Candidate, Colorado State University. American Indian
Program, assisted with the American Indian collection, May 8, 1989 through
July 28, 1989.
Nicole Senecal, Masters Candidate, George Washington University. Exhibit Design,
researched, designed and executed specific elements of the "Who Wears the
Pants?" exhibition, January 10, 1989 through April 14, 1989.

Eileen Shapiro, Masters Degree. Political History, researched moving pictures and
other film sources at the National Archives and the Library of Congress for the

"Women in Progressive Era" exhibition, July 10, 1989 through
September 30, 1989.

Cheryl Simmons, Masters Degree. Archives, researched African-American Diaspora,
May 15, 1989 through November 11, 1989.
Jolie Simmons, Bachelors Candidate, West Virginia University. Publications and

Exhibit Design, assisted in design, production and inventory control with special

emphasis on the design and production of printed materials, September 11,
1989 through June 1, 1990.

Sara Smith, Bachelors Candidate, Northwestern University. Political History,
conducted research and photographic identification on slavery and free blacks
in 19th Century America, September 19, 1989 through December 15, 1989.

Suzanne Smyrl, Masters Candidate, University of Maryland. Division of Political

History, assembled and reorganized portions of the Division’s photographic

collections into useful categories or descriptors for the use of researchers,
May 30, 1989 through July 28, 1989.

Rebecca Sokolovsky, Bachelors Candidate, Williams College. Musical History, assisted
with research to develop a bibliographic and vertical research file on Duke
Ellington and _his associates, June 5, 1989 through August 31, 1989.

Linda Song, Bachelors Degree. Assisted with research

for paper on Afro-Americans who remained in the South during the Great

Migration and acted as curatorial assistant for the "Parlor to Politics" exhibition,
June 5, 1989 through August 18, 1989.

Christopher Stadnyk, High Schoo] Graduate. Department of Exhibits, participated in
"Intern ’89," the Office of Elementary and Secondary Education’s national
summer internship program, June 5, 1989 through July 7, 1989.

Evan Stoddard, Bachelors Candidate, Miami University, Ohio. Electricity and
Modern Physics, organized card catalogue system and photographs and acted as
curatorial assistant, May 23, 1989 through August 1, 1989.

Yoonjoo Strumfels, Masters Degree. Paper Conservation, completed an advanced
internship in conservation, January 3, 1989 through January 2, 1990.

Pamela Sturmer, Bachelors Candidate, Yale University. Division of Community Life,
researched and developed an exhibit on children of the Cold War,

May 30, 1989 through July 21, 1989.
Miriam Thaggert, High School Graduate. Program in Black American Culture,

participated in "Intern 89," the Office of Elementary and Secondary

Education’s national summer internship program, July 10, 1989 through
August 11, 1989.

102
Jennifer Theiss, Bachelors Candidate, University of Michigan Art School. Design,

performed basic graphic and typographic work for exhibits, June 8, 1989
through August 8, 1989.

Phillip Thomas, Bachelors Degree. Internship and Fellowship Office, served as
assistant internship and fellowship coordinator, September 9, 1989 through
December 1, 1989.

Kiley Timperley, High School Graduate. Office of Printing and Photographic
Services, participated in "Intern 89," the Office of Elementary and Secondary

Education’s national summer internship program, June 5, 1989 through July 7,
1989.

Christine Truoiolo, Bachelors Candidate, American University. Public Programs,
assisted with the production of a scholarly meeting, a public symposium and a
small exhibition, January 24, 1989 through May 5, 1989.

Ann Wagner, Bachelors Candidate, Wheaton College. Musical History, assisted with
the Duke Ellington project, January 3, 1989 through January 27, 1989.

Stephanie Wahl, Bachelors Candidate, George Mason University. Armed Forces
History, assisted with women’s uniform collection, September 6, 1989 through
December 15, 1989.

Chris Walsh, Bachelors Candidate, Georgetown University. Academic Affairs, assisted
Copy Editor of the American Quarterly, January 12, 1989 through
June 1, 1989. ;

Eric Ward, Bachelors Candidate, Coe College. Public Affairs, coordinated and
supervised film crews for press conferences on the Inventors and Innovators
exhibit, September 13, 1989 through December 8, 1989.

Janis Weiher, Masters Candidate, George Washington University. Office of the
Registrar, assisted with all major functions of the Office of the Registrar,
January 10, 1989 through April 20, 1989.

Jodi Westrum, Bachelors Candidate, University of Iowa. Public Programs, served as
permissions editor for Columbus Quincentenary book, September 5, 1989
through December 15, 1989.

Heather Wilcox, High School, Pennridge High School. Transportation, catalogued
Pullman train photos on computer, June 5, 1989 through August 11, 1989.

Cynthia Williams, Masters Candidate, James Madison University. Social and Cultural
History and Politica] History, assisted with photographic collection and with the
"Parlor to Politics" exhibition, June 5, 1989 through August 18, 1989.

Nicole Williamson, Bachelors Degree. Public Programs, conducted research for 1992
Africa Diaspora Conference and served as production assistant for the 1990
African AMerican Aesthic Conference, September 25, 1989 through December
d 31989.

Heather Woodcock, Bachelors Degree. Center for Advertising History and the
Archives Center, assisted with research on food, cosmetic and public interest

advertising including soft drink, cigarette and over-the-counter medicine ads,
June 26, 1989 through August 18, 1989.

Sun Kyung Yoon, Bachelors Candidate, George Mason University. Computers and

Information in Society, assisted with the "Information Age" exhibition,
February 2, 1989 through September 1, 1989.

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY

John Alroy, Bachelors Degree. Paleobiology, compiled information on Terrestrial
Ecosystem Evolution, July 4, 1989 through June 30, 1990.

Abigail Armstrong, Bachelors Candidate, Oberlin College. Anthropology, assisted
with inventory, repair and process of a historic film collection, June 7, 1989
through August 18, 1989.

Kristina Arnold, Bachelors Degree. Anthropology, researched Plains Indian sundance
and contemporary Plains Indian art, May 31, 1989 through August 18, 1989.

Anne Baird, Bachelors Candidate, Salem College. Naturalist Center, reviewed, edited
and updated Learning Laboratory in Human Osteology, January 3, 1989
through January 27, 1989.

Jennifer Baum, Bachelors Candidate, George Washington University. Anthropology,
worked with classical archaeology, May 26, 1989 through August 30, 1989.

Timothy Bernardis, Masters Degree. Little Big Horn College. Anthropology,
researched and wrote for Crow tribal catalog, July 17, 1989 through August 11,
1989.

Kathryn Bohling, Masters Candidate, George Washington University. Education,
prepared educational component for exhibition in the North American Mammal
Hall, January 9, 1989 through May 4, 1989.

Leah Bowanko, Bachelors Candidate, James Madison University. Botany, conducted
research on the flora of the Guianas, December 19, 1988 through
January 6, 1989.

Heather Briggs, Bachelors Candidate, George Washington University. Wertebrate
Zoology, worked with systematics of nine-banded armadillos, June 5, 1989
through August 11, 1989.

Kyllan Brooke, High School Graduate. Department of Exhibits, participated in
"Intern ’89," the Office of Elementary and Secondary Education’s national
summer internship program, June 5, 1989 through July 7, 1989.

Scott Brown, Masters Candidate, George Washington University. Anthropology,
assisted with preliminary research for Hall of Human Origins, January 9, 1989
through May 12, 1989.

Kenneth Michael] Cameron, Bachelors Degree. Botany, conducted research on the
flora of the Guianas, December 19, 1989 through January 2, 1989.

Mariel Campbell, Bachelors Candidate, University of New Mexico. Vertebrate

Zoology, worked with catalogue of American Amphibians and Reptiles

specifically systematics of Sonora Leaf-Nosed snakes, June 5, 1989 through
August 11, 1989.

Elizabeth Cates, Bachelors Candidate, George Mason University. Anthropology,
assisted in the laboratory analyzing bones from the Lamb Spring archaeological
site, December 19, 1988 through May 15, 1989.

James Chandler, Bachelors Degree. Mineral Sciences, worked with computer
specialist in the Global Volcanism Program, May 22, 1989 through August 31,
1989.

Monique Chretien, High School Graduate. Vertebrate Zoology, participated in
"Intern 89," the Office of Elementary and Secondary Education’s national
summer internship program, July 10, 1989 through August 11, 1989.

Susan Cierebiej, High School Graduate. Marine Systems Laboratory, participated in
"Intern 89," the Office of Elementary and Secondary Education’s national
summer internship program, July 10, 1989 through August 11, 1989.

Eileen Collins, Bachelors Candidate, Louisiana Tech University. Vertebrate Zoology,
and Herpetology, studied age and size relationships in an Arboreal snake,
June 5, 1989 through August 11, 1989.

Marcia Connor, Bachelors Candidate, Thomas Nelson Community College.
Mammalogy, assisted with curating genets, January 23, 1989 through
May 15, 1989.

Jill Crook, Bachelors Candidate, Mount Holyoke College. Anthropology, compiled
data on Pacific Collection donors and performed a bibliographic search on
Preznisian art, June 5, 1989 through July 28, 1989.

Mary Droutsas, Bachelors Candidate, Gallaudet University. Film Archives, organized,

processed, repaired and prepared archival motion picture collections for

preservation, duplication and storage, January 31, 1989 through April 28, 1989.
Randy Emery, Bachelors Candidate, Haskell Indian Junior College. Anthropology,

assembled information relevant to American Indian collections in Smithsonian
museums and photocopied all Zuni photographs, June 5, 1989 through
August 5, 1989.

David Ernstes, Bachelors Candidate, Texas A&M University. Botany, assisted with

processing Dr. Elbert Little’s Collection, May 30, 1989 through August 4, 1989.
Neil Fallon, High School, Seneca Valley High School. Anthropology, conducted

research in a skeletal biology laboratory, February 2, 1989 through
June 15, 1989.

Jean Fang, Bachelors Degree. Anthropology, assisted with Central Plants Collection
in_ bone analysis and inventory, June 5, 1989 through August 15, 1989.

Darcie Faucher, Bachelors Candidate, LIU Southampton College. Marine Systems

Laboratory, participated in field project in Goodland, Florida, August 30, 1989
through December 23, 1989.
Carolyn Ferrell, Bachelors Candidate, University of Minnesota. Vertebrate Zoology,
worked with Mammalian Species Account, June 5, 1989 through August 11,
1989.

Lisa Fritzler, Bachelors Candidate, Montana State University. Anthropology,
photographed Crow Artifact Collection for catalog, July 10, 1989 through
September 8, 1989.

Suzanne Furesz, Bachelors Candidate, St. Mary’s University. Botany, assisted with
Living Forest project_and its application to paleobotanical field work,

May 30, 1989 through August 11, 1989.

Eric Galm, Bachelors Degree. Anthropology, re-catalogued Afncan drums in the
collection, analyzed and notated field performance tapes and worked with the
Folklife Festival, June 8, 1989 through August 25, 1989.

Jania Garcia, Masters Candidate, University of Washington. Anthropology, arranged
and described the papers of Helen L. Peterson (Executive Director, National

Congress of American Indians, 1953-1961), April 3, 1989 through
June 30, 1989.

Antoinette Geoly, Bachelors Candidate, James Madison University. Mineral Sciences,
worked with powder x-ray diffraction studies of minerals, June 13, 1989 through
August 18, 1989.

Gary Gillis, Bachelors Candidate, Pacific Lutheran University. Vertebrate Zoology,
worked with Fish Osteology and Systematics, June 5, 1989 through August 11,
1989.

Jason Grant, Bachelors Candidate, University of Alaska at Fairbanks. Botany, worked
with Bromeliad Floristics, May 30, 1989 through August 30, 1989.

Jennifer Gray, Bachelors Candidate, Rhodes College. Vertebrate Zoology, worked
with Fossil Birds, June 5, 1989 through August 11, 1989.

Terry Gray, Bachelors Candidate, State Gleska College. Anthropology, worked on a
photo survey, June 12, 1989 through August 11, 1989.

Timothy Griffith, High School Graduate. Botany, participated in "Intern 89," the
Office of Elementary and Secondary Education’s national summer internship
program, June 5, 1989 through July 7, 1989.

Susan Grupp, Bachelors Degree. Entomology, illustrated anatomical dissections to
assist research on Lepidoptera (moths), December 19, 1988 through
March 30, 1989.

William Haigler, Bachelors Candidate, University of Wisconsin at Stevens Point.
Botany, assisted with Graminae curation and with the cytology of Mulhenbergia,
May 30, 1989 through August 15, 1989.

Margaret Halloran, Bachelors Candidate, Beloit College. Anthropology, abstracted
scholarly articles in preparation for conference on Museums and their
Communities, helped to prepare bibliography on Niger and northern Nigeria
for_a research project on the history of theater and drama in this region, and

worked with research project on socialization of youth in to adult society,
May 22, 1989 through August 20, 1989.

Brian Harvey, Bachelors Candidate, Gettysburg College. Anthropology, assisted in
classical archeology section, May 25, 1989 through August 20, 1989.

Hilde Hein, Visiting Professional, College of the Holy Cross. Education, conducted
audience research in the museum and assisted in the development of public
programming during the summer, April 10, 1989 through September 1, 1989.

David Hiltz, Jr., Bachelors Candidate, College of the Atlantic. Marine Systems
Laboratory, developed and operated living ecosystems for the Space Biosphere
Venture Project, January 2, 1989 through March 3, 1989.

Bruce Hoffman, Bachelors Candidate, Humboldt Sate University. Botany, prepared
manuscript on useful and medicinal plants of the Tuianas and processed plant
specimens from the Tuianas, May 30, 1989 through August 4, 1989.

Claudia Holland, Bachelors Degree. Anthropology, collected and assembled

accession, catalogue, and pertinent information to establish the provenance of

African-Caribbean and African-Hispanic objects located in the Ethnological
Collections, August 7, 1989 through September 22, 1989.

Eleanor Holland, Bachelors Degree. Entomology, produced scientific illustrations for
publication in research papers, September 5, 1989 through September 30, 1989.
Kathryn Hoppe, Bachelors Degree. Mineral Sciences, assembled post-1986 reports

for successor to recently published Global Volcanism 1975-1985, gathered

information about geophysical events and helped to prepare reports for the
Scientific Event Alert Network Bulletin, June 12, 1989 through

August 4, 1989.

Natasha Iskander, High School, Madeira School. Exhibits, assisted with the Volcano
Egyptian and Nomads exhibitions and conducted photography research for
educational programs, September 20, 1989 through June 1, 1990.

Laurie Jeffers, Bachelors Candidate, State University of New York. Botany,
photographed using the Scanning Electron Microscope, January 3, 1989 through
January 13, 1989.

Katherine Jones, Bachelors Candidate. Invertebrate Zoology, drew scientific
illustrations for Mollusk_ Department, including carbon dusting, stipple and
sketches, June 12, 1989 through August 31, 1989.

Miranda Kahn, Bachelors Candidate, Oberlin College. Botany, performed anatomical
studies of Commelinaceae, May 30, 1989 through August 4, 1989.

Lawrence Kelly, Bachelors Candidate, California Polytechnic State University. Botany,
worked on composite of the Guyanas, June 12, 1989 through August 11, 1989.

Laurie Klingensmith, Bachelors Candidate, New Mexico State University. Botany,
archived botanical illustrations from the department, rematting and creating
database, May 30, 1989 through August 4, 1989.

Francis Koh, High School, Walt Whitman Senior High School. Marine Systems

Laboratory, assisted in maintaining systems laboratory project, June 26, 1989
through August 31, 1989.

Nicole Lemon, Bachelors Candidate, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill.
Anthropology, conducted research, September 18, 1989 through December 8,
1989.

Mia Lerner, Bachelors Candidate, University of Wisconsin at Madison. Naturalist
Center, organized and catalogued fossil mollusks and developed scientific
illustration skills, June 19, 1989 through August 12, 1989.

Marcy Levy, Bachelors Candidate, College of William and Mary. Anthropology,
assisted in developing a bibliography in relation to the Conte Collection of
West African textiles from Niger and Nigeria, organized twenty years of
correspondences concerning the Lamb Collection of West African textiles and
worked with the Dan collection of passport masks and developed a picture
library according to ethnic programs, June 1, 1989 through August 11, 1989.

Danny Maria, Bachelors Candidate, Fort Lewis College. Anthropology, worked as a
computer programmer and with the Navajo History section, May 29, 1989
through August 4, 1989.

Kim Meadow, Bachelors Degree. Vertebrate Zoology, worked with Mammalian
Species Account, June 5, 1989 through August 11, 1989.

Carol Mears, Bachelors Candidate, Youngstown State University. Botany, studied,

processed and identified marine algae, May 30, 1989 through August 4, 1989.
Corinne Miles, Bachelors Degree. Paleobotany, conducted fieldwork of Eocene

Period in Big Horn Basin, Wyoming and processed data, July 6, 1989 through
September 6, 1989.

Kimberly Moeller, Bachelors Candidate, Stockton State College. Anthropology,
assisted in the Conservation Laboratory, February 6, 1989 through May 13,
1989.

Brad Moon, Bachelors Degree. Vertebrate Zoology, conducted research on the

variation in South Pacific island populations of the parthenogenetic and sexually

reproducing gecko Nastus pelagicus,
October 17, 1988 through March 30, 1989.

Susan Nahwoosky, Bachelors Candidate, Keuka College. Anthropology, catalogued
Comanche collection, May 22, 1989 through August 22, 1989.

James Nieh, Bachelors Candidate, Harvard College. Vertebrate Zoology, studied
Allometry in Squirrels, June 5, 1989 through August 11, 1989.

Andrea Nix, Bachelors Candidate, Duke University. Botany, documented two data
base programs and updated current genus lists and labels, June 9, 1989 through
August 18, 1989.

James Nix-Gomez, High School, Thomas Jefferson High School for Science and

Technology. Anthropology, worked with The Powers Phase Project,
computerizing information about artifacts from two sites in Missouri_using
DBase and Autocard programs, June 26, 1989 through September 4, 1989.

Virginia Norcross, Bachelors Candidate, University of California at Los Angeles.
Anthropology, researched for brochure, July 17, 1989 through September 30,
1989.

Anna Nowicka, Bachelors Candidate, University of Warsaw. Anthropology, analyzed
historic pottery from the northern Great Plains with special emphasis on the
Arikara Indians, September 5, 1989 through September 1, 1990.

Sue Oesterreich, Bachelors Candidate, University of Wisconsin at Stevens Point.
Botany, worked on various lab duties including describing pollen ultrastructure,
May 30, 1989 through August 4, 1989.

Monika Palunas, Bachelors Candidate, Wittenberg University. Paleobiology,
performed paleobotanical laboratory work and field work, June 9, 1989 through
August 25, 1989.

Sunae Park, PhD. Anthropology, improved documentation of the Korean ethnology

collections, especially the early textile collection, August 1, 1989 through
January 15, 1990.

Alonso Perez, High School, San Gabriel High School. Botany, assisted in Gramineae
curation, July 3, 1989 through August 31, 1989.

Patricia Petrivelli, Masters Candidate, University of Alaska, Fairbanks. Anthropology,
conducted research in the Aleut collections, April 13, 1989 through
June 2, 1989.

Jennifer Phipps, Bachelors Candidate, Muskingum College. Botany, worked on
bibliography and update of negatives for Gesneriaceae projects, May 30, 1989
through August 4, 1989.

Arifin Pramono, Museum Professional, National Museum of Indonesia. Anthropology,
learned and practiced archival techniques to be applied to the Dorothy Pelzer
collection, January 16, 1989 through January 28, 1990.

Scott Rawlins, Masters Degree. Anthropology, drew artifacts for publication, and
helped to prepare anthropological/archaeological visual materials for publication
in the Handbook of North American Indians, July 27, 1989 through August 25,
1989.

Rebekah Resnick, Bachelors Candidate, College of the Atlantic. Marine Systems
Laboratory, developed and operated living ecosystems for the Space Biosphere

Venture Project, January 2, 1989 through March 3, 1989.

Michael Richardson, High School Graduate. Insect Zoo, participated in "Intern ’89,"
the Office of Elementary and Secondary Education’s national summer
internship program, July 10, 1989 through August 11, 1989.

Leslie Sagle, Bachelors Degree. Special Exhibits, assisted with conservation and
preparation of ethnographic objects for the "Java Seas" exhibit, June 5, 1989
through September 1, 1989.

Patricia Sansone, Bachelors Degree. Naturalist Center, developed and implemented
the "Behind the Scenes in a Natural History Museum" exhibition, October 11,
1988 through December 30, 1988.

Christine Skelly, Bachelors Degree. Vertebrate Zoology, studied patterns of bird
variation, June 5, 1989 through August 11, 1989.

Ferial Deer Skye, PhD. Anthropology, catalogued articles for the Menominee Indian
archives project, July 3, 1989 through October 31, 1989.
Denise Slack, Masters Degree. Naturalist Center, performed vanous duties including
working with the general public, conducting school group programs,
participating in teacher workshops and developing skills on developing hands-on

activities for secondary school science students, July 7, 1989 through
August 2, 1989.

Alton Straub, Bachelors Candidate, Harvard College. Vertebrate Zoology, studied
Fish Osteology and Systematics, June 5, 1989 through August 11, 1989.

Ashley Straupe, Bachelors Candidate, Harvey Mudd College, assisted
with carrying out survey of visitor interest and attitudes towards exhibit on

human origins and with refurbishing physical anthropology exhibits, June 19,
1989 through September 1, 1989.

Stephanie Tannert, Bachelors Candidate, Louisiana State University. Anthropology,
assisted with survey data collection and editing to develop an exhibition on

human evolution and assisted in skeletal biology research, June 2, 1989 through
July 31, 1989.

Amanda Taylor, High School Graduate. Office of Special Exhibits, participated in
"Intern "89," the Office of Elementary and Secondary Education’s national
summer program, June 5, 1989 through July 7, 1989.

Suroojnauth Tiwari, Bachelors Degree. Botany, studied bio-diversity of the guiana,
May 31, 1989 through August 4, 1989.

Gerald Tom, High School Graduate. Insect Zoo, participated in "Intern ’89," the
Office of Elementary and Secondary Education’s national summer internship
program, June 5, 1989 through July 7, 1989.

Claudia Walks Along, Bachelors Candidate, Montana State University. Anthropology,
photographed Crow Indian Collection for catalog, July 10, 1989 through August
17; 1989.

Courtney Williams, Bachelors Candidate, American University. Education, assisted
with education packets, materials, tours, public programs and teacher’s
workshops, February 2, 1989 through April 30, 1989.

Virginia Wong, Bachelors Candidate, Tarleton State University. Mineral Science,
assisted in translation of Banasa Malayora in the Global Volcanism Program,
June 5, 1989 through August 25, 1989.

Lili Xie, Bachelors Degree. Wertebrate Zoology, assisted in translation of scientific
articles to English from Chinese_and assisted with SI joint Sino-American

Ecological Survey of Xinjiang Province, China, December 16, 1988 through
December 16, 1989.

Tana Yarano, Masters Candidate, George Washington University. Education, assisted
in_preparation and coordination of educational materials and public programs
for the "Crossroads of Continents" exhibition, January 10, 1989 through April
28, 1989.

Christine Zimmerman, High School, Senneca Valley High School. Anthropology,

analyzed animal bones from archaeological sites in Turkey and Syma,
February 6, 1989 through May 31, 1989.

IIo
NATIONAL PORTRAIT GALLERY

Christi Barnes, Bachelors Candidate, University of Maryland. Catalog of American

Portraits, matched photographs of American portraits from major American

public and private collections with appropnate catalog information,
February 21, 1989 through May 31, 1989.

Tasha Bassett, Bachelors Candidate, Evergreen State College. Design and
Production, assisted with museum graphics, March 27, 1989 through August 31,
1989.

Brad Bynum, High School, School without Walls. Library, assisted with library duties,
October 4, 1988 through January 18, 1989.

Tracey Campbell, Bachelors Candidate, American University. Education, developed a

proposal to create a puppet show to serve families on weekends and developed

the February program for the Museum Education Roundtable, September 14,
1989 through December 15, 1989.

Anna Choo, Bachelors Candidate, University of California, Berkeley. Education

Department, assisted in planning for public programs series, reviewed scripts
and tapes, recommended feasibility of programs and assisted in the
administrative, technical and logistical aspects of producing public programs

highlighting the permanent collection, June 5, 1989 through July 28, 1989.
Amy Commito, Bachelors Candidate, Smith College. Collections, conducted research

on Chicago World’s Exposition, September 5, 1989 through December 15, 1989.

Vandy Cook, Bachelors Candidate, Portland State University. Office of Exhibition,
computerized exhibition history and assisted with an exhibition, September 11,
1989 through December 1, 1989.

Curtis Cox, High School, School without Walls. Library, assisted with library duties,
February 22, 1989 through June 14, 1989.

Jennifer DeSena, High Schoo] Graduate. Office of the Historian, participated in
"Intern 789," the Office of Elementary and Secondary Education’s national
summer internship program, July 10, 1989 through August 11, 1989.

Alice Earle, Bachelors Candidate, American University. Design and Production,
assisted with production management tasks, September 21, 1989 through
December 16, 1989.

Marie Friendly, Masters Candidate, George Washington University. Painting and

Sculpture, assisted with research for upcoming exhibition featuring a selection
of American paintings and sculpture shown at the World’s Columbian
Exposition, May 8, 1989 through July 31, 1989.

Jennifer Gentry, Bachelors Candidate, University of Virginia. Library, worked with
Vertical File material, stack inventory, auction catalogs and performed
bibliographic searching, May 30, 1989 through August 30, 1989.

Sarah Goldsmith, High School Graduate. Catalog of American Portraits, organized

phonographs and portrait data, entered data on computer for artist authority
file and researched and verified artist data, June 13, 1989 through August 11,
1989.

Katherine Gould, Bachelors Candidate, Harvard College. Painting and Sculpture,
assisted with research on group of 18th century Amencan and English portraits
and assisted with research for an exhibition on American art shown at the 1893
World’s Columbian Exposition, June 19, 1989 through August 6, 1989.

Ellen Grayson, Masters Candidate, George Washington University. Curator’s Office,
wrote labels for painting and sculpture for reinstallation of the Hall of
Presidents, September 1, 1989 through December 30, 1989.

Shaunga Hoffler, High School, School without Walls. Exhibition Office, incorporated
pending file photographs into permanent files, February 8, 1989 through
May 24, 1989.

Bridget Hughes, Bachelors Candidate, Pratt Institute. Exhibit Design, assisted in
preparing exhibit layout and working drawings, production schedules and work

requests, contracting and purchasing, September 25, 1989 through January 1,
1990.

Kern Irvine, Bachelors Candidate, Queens University. Library, assisted in operations

of the library including filing, bibliographic checking and shelving, May 5, 1989
through September 1, 1989.

Ellen Keiter, Bachelors Candidate, Muhlenberg College. Design and Production,
assisted in preparation of scheduling and graphics production work for
exhibitions, January 30, 1989 through May 15, 1989.

Judith Kloss, Bachelors Degree. Publications, prepared illustrations and captions for

book on the work of Winold Reiss and assisted with other publications,
July 17, 1989 through October 17, 1989.

Jessica Kohen, Bachelors Candidate, University of California, Los Angeles. Catalog
of American Portraits, assisted work of Career Awareness Program including
Artist Authority Database, Southern States Portraits, Portraits of Native
Amenicans, and Photographs and published reproductions, June 19, 1989
through September 15, 1989.

Chery] Kramer, Bachelors Degree. Office of the Historian, researched contemporary
newspapers, journals and books (1815-1845) for references to portraits of
Andrew Jackson, April 4, 1989 through June 11, 1989.

Naomi Kukoff, Bachelors Candidate, Wheaton College. Catalog of American
Portraits, performed basic research and verified information on portraits from

public and private collections in California and entered data on computer data
base, June 26, 1989 through August 11, 1989.

Carey Leue, Bachelors Candidate, University of California at Santa Barbara. Curator
of Paintings and Sculpture, assisted in research on late eighteenth century
Amenican portraits by Copley, West, Stuart, Peale and others that are being

studied for a publication of the National Gallery of Art paintings collection,
June 19, 1989 through August 11, 1989.

I1I2
Camilo Marmolejos, High School, School without Walls. Library, assisted with
classification projects, filing and checking bibliographies, September 19, 1989
through December 15, 1989.

Elizabethine McClure, Bachelors Candidate, Duke University. Public Affairs,

performed research in preparation for the Winold Reiss exhibition, developing
press contracts, preparing information for background piece for press kits,

handled routine responses to calendar listings and updated scrapbooks,
May 15, 1989 through August 18, 1989.

Amy Metsch, Bachelors Candidate, American University. Education Department,

developed a proposal for Cultures in Motion Creative Exchange, a series of
museum programs and workshops designed to encourage handicapped and non-

handicapped persons interested in Portraiture, June 13, 1989 through
July 28, 1989.

Elsa Mezvinsky, Bachelors Degree. Prints, assisted the curatorial staff of the Prints
and Drawings collection in the original cataloguing of acquisition, June 19, 1989
through August 25, 1989.

Vittorio Scala, Bachelors Candidate, Bloomsburg University. Public Affairs,

performed background research on "Portraits of the American Law" exhibition
in order to target audience, press contacts, invitees for opening reception and

assisted in sending press information to calendar listings, May 22, 1989 through
August 11, 1989.

Crystala Sewell, High School, School without Walls. Education Department, assisted
with clerical duties, February 17, 1989 through May 5, 1989.

Dina Smith, Bachelors Candidate, Vanderbilt University. Curator’s Office, assisted in
writing and augmenting research for new labels for paintings and sculpture in
the Hall of Presidents, June 12, 1989 through August 11, 1989.

Tracy Stewart, High School, School without Walls. Catalog of American Portraits,
assisted in maintaining and updating the portrait files, February 13, 1989
through June 16, 1989.

Shiyana Thenabadu, Bachelors Candidate, Scripps College. Education Department,

developed a series of programs and workshops designed to encourage

handicapped and non-handicapped persons interested in portraiture, September
21, 1989 through December 14, 1989.

Claire Tieder, Masters Candidate, George Mason University. Curatorial Department,

conducted research for exhibition on American painting and sculpture at the

World’s Columbian Exposition in Chicago in 1893, September 11, 1989 through
December 8, 1989.

Lucile Walker, Masters Candidate, George Washington University. Painting and

Sculpture, wrote new labels for all paintings and sculpture for the reinstallation
of the Hall of Presidents, February 6, 1989 through April 30, 1989.

113
Isabella Wiedersich, Freie Universitat Berlin. Catalog of American Portraits,

catalogued collections and performed other vanous tasks including data entry,
labeling and filing photographs, assigning names to Artists’ File using D-Base

III_and creating files using auction catalogs, July 17, 1989 through August 11,
1989.

Marianna Williams, Bachelors Candidate, Northern Virginia Community College.
Catalog of American Portraits, assisted staff with verifying photographic data,

labeling, integrating information into master file and conducting research,
February 15, 1989 through June 30, 1989.

Laura Woodson, Bachelors Candidate, Smith College. History of American Culture,
conducted research on Peale family letters, September 6, 1989 through
December 15, 1989.

Karen Yoder, High Schoo] Graduate. Library, participated in "Intern ’89," the Office

of Elementary and Secondary Education’s national summer internship program,
June 5, 1989 through July 7, 1989.

OFFICE OF EXHIBITS CENTRAL

James Baergen, High School Graduate. Fabrication Unit, participated in "Intern ’89,"
the Office of Elementary and Secondary Education’s national summer
internship program, June 5, 1989 through July 7, 1989.

Linley Logan, Bachelors Degree. Specimen Packing and Handling Laboratory,
packed and crated "Plains Indian Arts: Continuity and Change" traveling
exhibit, July 31, 1989 through October 20, 1989.

David Sheldon, Masters Candidate, University of Maryland. Model Shop, made

molds and casts in fiberglass for the World War I mannequins for NASM
exhibition, September 25, 1989 through December 1, 1989.

OFFICE OF HORTICULTURE

Joseph Padilla, High Schoo] Graduate. Office of Horticulture, participated in

"Intern ’89," the Office of Elementary and Secondary Education’s national
summer internship program, July 10, 1989 through August 11, 1989.

OFFICE OF MUSEUM PROGRAMS

Heather Baker, Bachelors Degree. Curriculum Programs, assisted in development
and implementation of career seminars for interns and assisted in development

of resources for Instructional Resources Program and Curriculum Program,
May 30, 1989 through September 1, 1989.
Wahida Mohideen, Museum Professional, National Museums of Kenya. Internships,
compiled information on internship programs and opportunities at the
Smithsonian Institution and edited material into publication: Internship

Opportunities at the Smithsonian, 1989-1991, January 30, 1989 through
June 30, 1989.

Elena Maria Neira-Sarmiento, Visiting Professional, Communidad Autonoma de
Madrid. Performed in depth analysis of structures and systems of management
at science and technology museums and centers and researched development

and implementation of exhibits and public programming in science for all age
levels, July 10, 1989 through July 1, 1990.

Nancy Rasenti, Bachelors Degree. Curriculum and Instructional Programs, assisted in
development and implementation of museum training workshops and the

identification, compilation and dissemination of wntten materials to support the
programs, June 5, 1989 through August 11, 1989.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION TRAVELING EXHIBITION SERVICE

Beth Campbell, Bachelors Candidate, College of Wooster. Program, provided
research support for "Views from Space” exhibit, February 2, 1989 through
April 28, 1989.

Lawrence Delclos, Bachelors Degree. Program, assisted with the "Inside Active
Volcanoes exhibition, April 24, 1989 through September 29, 1989.

Evelyn Figueroa, Masters Candidate, George Washington University. Education,
assisted in research for education resource materials to accompany the

"Contrasts: 40 Years of Change and Continuity in Puerto Rico” exhibition, July
21, 1989 through September 9, 1989.

Melissa Hallman, Bachelors Candidate, Trinity College. Program, assisted in research
and administration for the advance matemals sent to exhibitors of SITES
exhibitions of British and Irish watercolors and drawings and for an exhibition
of the work of Austrian Secessionists, June 12, 1989 through August 25, 1989.

Zuraidah Hashim, Bachelors Candidate, George Washington University. Assisted in
the SITES press office in a variety of duties including compiling press
notebooks for exhibitions which are no longer traveling, preparing press kits for
upcoming SITES exhibitions and helping at press reviews and the opening
reception for "Inside Active Volcanoes," June 12, 1989 through July 28, 1989.

Rachel Heller, Bachelors Candidate, Brandeis University. Program, provided research

support for travelling version of "Field to Factory" exhibition, February 2, 1989
through April 28, 1989.

Desiree Humphries, Bachelors Degree. Exhibition Production, assisted in research

and administration for the "Tropical Rainforests: A Disappearing Treasure"
exhibition, June 19, 1989 through August 18, 1989.

Karen Nichols, Bachelors Degree. Program, provided project assistance for the
Tropical Rainforest exhibition, November 14, 1988 through February 3, 1989.

Susie Schnell, Bachelors Candidate, Texas Christian University. Program, provided
research support for marketing exhibitions, February 2, 1989 through April 28,
1989.

Becky Sewell, High School, Garrison Forest School. Program, assisted the
Publications Director with a variety of projects, February 21, 1989 through
March 17, 1989.

Christopher Shrum, Bachelors Candidate, North Arizona University. Scheduling and
Exhibitor Relations, provided marketing assistance for the traveling exhibition
"Athletes and Heroes,” May 22, 1989 through September 1, 1989.

Katherine Swartz, Bachelors Candidate, Marietta College. Public Relations, assisted

in SITES press office in a variety of duties including updating press mailing
lists, compiling publicity notebooks for exhibitions ending national tours and

compiling press materials for upcoming SITES exhibition, June 13, 1989
through August 4, 1989.

NATIONAL DEMONSTRATION LABORATORY

Patrick Boley, Bachelors Candidate, Carleton College. Worked with and researched

educational applications of interactive technologies and assisted in the

compilation of a database of information on the technologies, June 15, 1989
through August 15, 1989.

Cynthia Plue, Bachelors Candidate, Gallaudet University. Worked with and

researched educational applications of interactive technologies and assisted in

the compilation of a database of information on the technologies, May 30, 1989
through July 21, 1989.

Daniel Prince, Bachelors Candidate, Carleton College. Worked with and researched

educational applications of interactive technologies and assisted in the
compilation of a database of information on the technologies, July 6, 1989
through July 28, 1989.

Willis Smith, Masters Degree. Obtained an overview of videodisc/CD-ROM in-
structional technology, October 18, 1988 through January 15, 1989.

Ashley Suhler, Bachelors Candidate, George Washington University. Worked with

and researched educational applications of interactive technologies and_assisted

in the compilation of a database of information on the technologies, June 5,
1989 through August 1, 1989.
OFFICE OF ELEMENTARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION

Sushama Austin, High School, Georgetown Visitation High School. Participated in
the Career Awareness Program at the National Museum of African Art, June
26, 1989 through August 31, 1989.

Leta Bennafield, High School, Roosevelt Senior High School. Participated in the
Career Awareness Program at the National Air and Space Museum, October 3,
1988 through December 31, 1989.

Rebeccah Bennett, High School, Banneker Senior High School. Participated in the
Career Awareness Program at the National Museum of Natural History, June
26, 1989 through August 31, 1989.

Victor Bibbins, Bachelors Candidate, Morgan State University. Participated in the
Career Awareness Program at the Office of Elementary and Secondary
Education, June 26, 1989 through August 31, 1989.

Rena Brooks, High School, Roosevelt Senior High School. Participated in the Career
Awareness Program at the National Air and Space Museum and the Office of
Folklife Programs, October 3, 1988 though August 31, 1989.

Shadonne Brown, High School, Academy of Notre Dame. Participated in the Career
Awareness Program at the National Air and Space Museum, June 26, 1989
through August 31, 1989.

Maurice Chesley, High School, Roosevelt Senior High School. Participated in the
Career Awareness Program at the National Air and Space Museum, June 26,
1989 through August 31, 1989.

Edward Christian, High School, Ballou Senior High School. Participated in the
Career Awareness Program at the National Museum of American History,
October 3, 1988 through August 31, 1989.

Linda Curfman, Bachelors Candidate, University of Iowa. Special Education

Program, assisted in the development of two issues of a monthly newsletter for
adults with limited reading abilities, May 30, 1989 through July 28, 1989.

Debbie Defoe, High School, Banneker Senior High School. Participated in the
Career Awareness Program at the National Portrait Gallery, June 26, 1989
through August 31, 1989.

Eric Dyson, High School, Roosevelt Senior High School. Participated in the Career
Awareness Program at the National Museum of Natural History, June 26, 1989
through August 31, 1989.

Sharon Edwards, High School, McKinley Senior High School. Participated in the
Career Awareness Program at the National Air and Space Museum, June 26,
1989 through August 31, 1989.

Lanesia Evono, High School, Roosevelt Senior High School. Participated in the

Career Awareness Program at the Archives Center, Museum of American

History and at the Office of Equal Opportunity, October 3, 1988 through
August 31, 1989.
Chandanie Girdharry, High School, Roosevelt Senior High School. Participated in the
Career Awareness Program at the Arthur M. Sackler Gallery, October 3, 1988
through December 31, 1989.

LaTanya Inman, High School, Banneker Senior High School. Participated in the
Career Awareness Program at the National Demonstration Laboratory, June
26, 1989 through August 31, 1989.

Janelle Irick, High School, Banneker Senior High School. Participated in the Career
Awareness Program at the National Zoological Park, June 26, 1989 through
August 31, 1989.

Niambi Jarvis, High School, Banneker Senior High School. Participated in the Career
Awareness Program at the National Museum of Natural History, June 26, 1989
through August 31, 1989.

LaShawn Jones, High School Graduate. Participated in the Career Awareness
Program at the National Museum of American Art and the National Portrait
Gallery, June 26, 1989 through August 31, 1989.

Nichole Jones, High School, Banneker Senior High School. Participated in the
Career Awareness Program at the National Museum of Natural History and
the National Museum of American Art, June 26, 1989 through August 31, 1989.

Sean Landwing, High School, School Without Walls. Participated in the Career
Awareness Program at the National Air and Space Museum, October 3, 1988
through May 31, 1989.

Che-Wah Lee, High School, Banneker Senior High School. Participated in the
Career Awareness Program at the National Museum of Natural History, June
26, 1989 through August 31, 1989.

Deidre Lee, High School, Banneker Senior High School. Participated in the Career
Awareness Program at the National Zoological Park, June 26, 1989 through
August 31, 1989.

Sharon Lee, High School, Academy of Notre Dame. Participated in the Career
Awareness Program at the National Air and Space Museum, June 26, 1989
through July 15, 1989.

Quentin Mitchell, High School, Roosevelt Senior High School. Participated in the
Career Awareness Program at the National Museum of Natural History,
October 3, 1988 through November 30, 1988.

Tracie Mitchell, High School, Banneker Senior High School. Participated in the
Career Awareness Program at the National Museum of Natural History, June
26, 1989 through August 31, 1989.

Nicole Morton, High School, Kelly Miller Jr. High School. Participated in the Career
Awareness Program at the Office of Folklife Programs, June 26, 1989 through
August 31, 1989.

Lisa Myers, High School, School Without Walls. Participated in the Career

Awareness Program at the National Museum of American History, June 26,
1989 through August 31, 1989.
Taylora O’Bryant, High School, Banneker Senior High School. Participated in the
Career Awareness Program at the Office of the Registrar, June 26, 1989
through August 31, 1989.

Elianna Ortiz, High School, School Without Walls. Participated in the Career
Awareness Program at the National Air and Space Museum, October 3, 1988
through May 31, 1989.

Gregory Owens, High School, Roosevelt Senior High School. Participated in the
Career Awareness Program at the Arthur M. Sackler Gallery, October 3, 1988
through December 31, 1989.

Semone Reddock, High School, Roosevelt Senior High School. Participated in the
Career Awareness Program at the Office of Folklife Programs, June 26, 1989
through August 31, 1989.

Adam Reichman, High School, Edmund Burke High School. Participated in the
Career Awareness Program at the National Air and Space Museum, June 26,
1989 through August 31, 1989.

Deirdre Simon, High School, Roosevelt Senior High School. Participated in the
Career Awareness Program at the National Air and Space Museum, October 3,
1988 through August 31, 1989.

Kori Spriggs, High School, School Without Walls. Participated in the Career
Awareness Program at the National Air and Space Museum, October 3, 1988
through August 31, 1989.

Tracey Thomas, High School, Banneker Senior High School. Participated in the
Career Awareness Program at the National Museum of American History, June
26, 1989 through August 31, 1989.

Melanie Wilcox, Bachelors Candidate, Kutztown University. Participated in the
Career Awareness Program at the National Museum of Natural History, June
26, 1989 through August 31, 1989.

April Williams, High School, Banneker Senior High School. Participated in the
Career Awareness Program at the National Museum of American History, June
26, 1989 through August 31, 1989.

Lisa Williams, High School, Eastern Senior High School. Participated in the Career

Awareness Program at the National Museum of American History, October 3,
1988 through August 31, 1989.

OFFICE OF FOLKLIFE PROGRAMS

Denise Cronin, Bachelors Candidate, George Mason University. Conducted research
on the 25th anniversary of the Festival of American Folklife cookbook
September 25, 1989 through December 20, 1989.

Julia Eisenberg, Bachelors Candidate, University of California, Berkeley. Served as

Chief Volunteer Coordinator in the French-American program for the 1989
Festival of American Folklife, June 14, 1989 through July 14, 1989.

Carmelita Hotz, Bachelors Degree. Researched craft items available for sale at the

Festival of American Folklife Museum Shop and developed descriptive labels
for these items to inform the public, April 17, 1989 through June 16, 1989.
Catherine Johnson, Masters Candidate, George Washington University. Compiled and

annotated a collection of key documents and discussion notes related to the
planning and management of the Festival of American Folklife and assisted in

the coordination of a Festival program, February 13, 1989 through
September 10, 1989.

Daniel Lopez, Bachelors Candidate, Prescott College. Conducted research on Native

American History focusing on the Tohono O’Odham Tne, July 13, 1989
through August 9, 1989.

Tammy Pertillar, Bachelors Candidate, Mount Holyoke College. Conducted research
on ethnic historical document for the "The Hispanic American Festival: The
Latino Community in the Making" exhibition and supervised Puerto Rican area

of Caribbean Program of the 1989 Festival of American Folklife , June 5, 1989
through August 18, 1989.

Kaota Saepharn, Bachelors Candidate, University of California at Berkeley.
Conducted research on the verbal dueling of the Iu Mien of Laos and

participated in the Folklore Summer Institute, June 19, 1989 through August
17,51989:

Cynthia Thorn, Bachelors Candidate, San Francisco State University. Assisted with
the Hawaiian Program, Festival of American Folklife and the Folklore Summer
Institute, June 19, 1989 through July 15, 1989.

Camille Tomlin, Bachelors Candidate, University of California at Los Angeles.
Conducted research, September 18, 1989 through November 17, 1989.

Natalie Weathers, Bachelors Candidate, Wassar College. Coordinated documentation
of ritual dance and musical performances and workshops presented in the

Caribbean Program, Festival of American Folklife, June 12, 1989 through
August 25, 1989.

OFFICE OF INTERDISCIPLINARY STUDIES

Sheri Foley, Bachelors Candidate, Mary Baldwin College. Assisted with daily
operations of the office, April 21, 1989.through May 30, 1989.

OFFICE*OF PUBLIC AFFAIRS

Orlando Campos, High School Graduate. Participated in "Intern ’89," the Office of

Elementary and Secondary Education’s national summer internship program,
June 5, 1989 through July 7, 1989.
Leslie Logan, Bachelors Degree. Developed a public relations outreach program to
the Native American population, October 3, 1988 through September 22, 1989.

William Price, Bachelors Candidate, St. Peter’s College. News Bureau, assisted with
all aspects of the News Bureau, September 5, 1989 through December 15,
1989.

Cardinal Rieger, Bachelors Candidate, Washburn University. Assisted in all areas of
the News Bureau, May 22, 1989 through August 4, 1989.

Carol Tang, Bachelors Candidate, University of California at Berkeley. News Bureau,

assisted in press releases, press conferences and other duties and assisted in

developing Outreach to Asian American community, June 5, 1989 through
August 4, 1989.

OFFICE OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS

Ward Elwood, High School Graduate. Participated in "Intern ’89," the Office of
Elementary and Secondary Education’s national summer internship Program,
July 10, 1989 through August 11, 1989.

Dennis Foley, Bachelors Candidate, George Washington University. Developed
technical skills in audio production for broadcast, September 18, 1989 through
December 22, 1989.

Curt Lukowski, Bachelors Candidate, University of Maryland. Served as Production

Assistant for "Here at the Smithsonian” and other office video projects,
March 3, 1989 through May 15, 1989.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION PRESS

Susanne Boeller, Masters Candidate, University of Stuttgart. Acquisitions Division,
conducted research on outstanding photographs for Duerer’s Animals by Colin
Eisler, September 21, 1989 through December 15, 1989.

Margaret Bradford, Bachelors Candidate, Oberlin College. Collection of Recordings,
conducted research, wrote, edited and proofread matemals related to recording
projects, January 3, 1989 through January 30, 1989.

Leezie Kim, High School Graduate. Recordings Division, participated in "Intern ’89",
the Office of Elementary and Secondary Education’s national summer
internship program, June 5, 1989 through July 7, 1989.

Henry Lincoln, Bachelors Candidate, Yale University. Smithsonian Books Division,

conducted research, wrote, edited and proofread materials on two publications,
IMAGES and BIRDS, June 5, 1989 through August 25, 1989.

SMITHSONIAN MAGAZINE

Mark LeGolvan, High School, St. Johns High School. Production Department,

received an overview of the production department of a commercial magazine,
May 15, 1989 through June 2, 1989.

NATIONAL ASSOCIATE PROGRAM

Angela Cox, Bachelors Candidate, University of the District of Columbia.
Contributing Membership, worked with James Smithson Society contributors,
July 10, 1989 through September 1, 1989.

Marybeth Reilly, Bachelors Candidate, Northern Virginia Community College. Travel
Program, assisted in arranging Southeast Texas Bird and Big Bend Tours,
September 5, 1989 through December 14, 1989.

Deborah Robinson, Bachelors Candidate, University of Virginia. Travel Program,

assisted with mailings, data entry, and registration for programs, May 22, 1989
through June 30, 1989.

RESIDENT ASSOCIATE PROGRAM

Jill Abbott, Bachelors Candidate, Kalamazoo College. Public Affairs, assisted with
daily office duties; prepared and disseminated publicity and information on
RAP events; assisted with execution of RAP events, March 27, 1989 through
June 2, 1989.

Marisol Espina-Ruiz, Museum Professional, National Museum of Anthropology of
Mexico. Studio Arts, identified resources and developed programs on Latin
American studio arts and crafts, January 1, 1989 through May 15, 1989.

Alyssa Gasperow, High School, Churchhill High School. Young Associates Program,
compiled information to write grant proposals for RAP projects, conducted

audience research study, explored co-sponsorship of programs with non
Smithsonian museums, January 31, 1989 through May 30, 1989.

Carol Lillienstein, Bachelors Candidate, State University of New York at Binghamton.
Adult Courses, assisted with course development and management and
Participated in the planning and management of a major museum continuing
education program, June 5, 1989 through August 4, 1989.

Douglas Mossman, Masters Candidate, University of Akron. Public Affairs, prepared
publicity and information on all RAP events and disseminated information to
media and community, September 5, 1989 through December 1, 1989.

Salina Muellich, Bachelors Degree. Public Affairs, performed various tasks including
archiving, preparation of publicity and information on RAP events,
dissemination of information to the media and the community and actual
execution of PR at RAP events, May 29, 1989 through August 25, 1989.

Christine Multra, Bachelors Candidate, Gallaudet University. Discovery Theater,

assisted with reservations, development of learning guides, preparation of

promotional materials and assisted performers for Deaf Way Festival and other
Discovery Theater, May 22, 1989 through August 18, 1989.

Phoebe Sloane, Bachelors Degree. Public Affairs, archived, prepared publicity and
information on RAP events, disseminated information to media community

executed public affairs at RAP events, January 9, 1989 through May 12, 1989.

OFFICE OF ARCHITECTURAL HISTORY & HISTORIC PRESERVATION

Filiz Buckley, Bachelors Degree. Drew blueprints of Smithsonian buildings on the

Mall for Archives and for use in publication, March 6, 1989 through June 6,
1989.

Abigail Goldberg, Bachelors Candidate, Smith College. Assisted with a catalog

raisonne of the architectural history of the National Zoological Park,
September 5, 1989 through December 15, 1989.

OFFICE OF INFORMATION RESOURCES MANAGEMENT

Pui Sang, High School Graduate. Participated in "Intern ’89," the Office of

Elementary and Secondary Education’s national summer internship program,
July 10, 1989 through August 11, 1989.

OFFICE OF PRINTING AND PHOTOGRAPHIC SERVICES

Diane Curry, Bachelors Candidate, University of Maryland, Baltimore. assisted with
studio, location, and historic documentation photography, September 15, 1989
through December 8, 1989.

Rachel Gilmore, Bachelors Candidate, Goucher College. Photographic Services,
assisted with studio, location and historic documentation photography, June 5,
1989 through August 25, 1989.

Lene Kiit, Visiting Professional, Danish National Museum. Served as assistant to the
photographers becoming familiar with latest photographic, studio and lab
equipment, November 1, 1988 through January 31, 1989.

Kirsten Levisen, High Schoo] Graduate. Office of Printing and Photographic Services,
participated in "Intern ’89," the Office of Elementary and Secondary

Education’s national summer internship program, July 10, 1989 through
August 11, 1989.
OFFICE OF PROTECTION SERVICES

Arnold Lemmon, Visiting Professional, Bingham Young University. Training, acquired

hands-on experience in electronic protection systems, guard operations,
protection management, and investigations, May 1, 1989 through June 30, 1989.
Appendix 4
Publications of the Smithsonian Institution Press in Fiscal Year 1989
During the fiscal year, the Smithsonian Institution Press published a total of 263

publications, including tradebooks, catalogs, brochures, and pamphlets. The following
are highlights.

TRADEBOOKS

Berkeley, Ellen Perry, editor. Architecture: A Place for Women, June 1989.

Bleeker, Pieter, Atlas Ichthvologique des Indes Orientales Neerlandaises (Atlas of
Fishes of the Dutch East Indies) Vol IX. May 1989.

Borden, Carla M. editor. Contempor jan ition: Voi n r

Brooks, Peter W. Cierva Autogiros: The Development of Rotary-Wing Flight.
October 1988.

Broun, Elizabeth. Albert Pinkham Ryder, September 1989.
Christman, Margaret C.S., The First Federal Congress, 1789-1791. March 1989.

Crouch, Tom D. A Dream of Wings: Americans and the Airplane, 1875-1905.
March 1989.

Easton, Elizabeth Wynne. The Intimate Interiors of Edouard Vuillard September
1989.

Ernst, Carl H., and Roger W. Barbour. Turtles of the World, June 1989.
Fitzhugh, Wiliam W., and Aaron Crowell, editors. Crossroads of Continents:

iberi . October 1988.
Friedl, Erika. Women of Deh Koh: Lives in an Iranian Village. May 1989.
Goode, James M. ; f j n’
Apartment Houses. November 1988.

Grove, Nancy. Isamu Noguchi: Portrait Sculpture, May 1989.

Hart, C.W., Jr. and Janice ra me eae ‘ear nary oe of Freshwater
: an 2 Aristo 35. April

Henderson, Amy. On the Air: Pioneers of American Broadcasting. October 1988.

Higgins, Robert P., and Hjalmar Thiel. Introduction to the Study of Meiofauna.
October 88.

Hirschoff, Paula M., and Neil G. Kotler, editors.
Strategies for Combatting Hunger and Malnutrition. aes 1989.
Johnsgard, Paul A. North American Owls, October 1988.

Keil, Harmut, editor. r. : j i i
October 1988.

Kidwell, Claudia Brush, and Valerie Steele, editors. Men and Women: Dressing the
Part. March 1989.

Lemay, Brian W.J., editor. Science, Ethics, and Food, (Papers and Proceedings of a
Colloquium Organized by the Smithsonian Institution). November 1988.

Lentz, Thomas W., and Glenn D. Lowry. Timur and the Princely Vision, May 198.
Lopez, Donald S.. National Air and Space Museum: A Visit in Pictures, March 1
Needell, Allan, editor. The First 25 Years in Space. June 1989.

Park, Edwards. Nanette: Her Pilot’s Love Story, July 1989.

Rand, Harry. Paul Manship, January 1989.

Riis, Thomas L. Just Before Jazz: Black Musical Theater in New York, 1890 to 25
September 1989.

Sweeting, C. G. Combat Flying Equipment: U.S. Army Aviators’ Personal
Equipment, 1917-1945, May 1989.

Thomas, David Hurst, editor. Columbian Consequences, Vol, 1: The Californias,
Texas, and the South western Heartland, April 1989.

Washburn, Wilcomb E., volume editor. yi
History of Indian-White Relations: Vol. 4, April 1989.

New Directions in American Art Series

Manthorne, Katherine Emma. Tropical Renaissance: North American Artists
Exploring Latin America, 1839-1879 September 1989.

Archaeology/Anthropology Series

Archaeological Inquiry

Dillehay. Ver Plei lement i hil
Paleoenvironment a Site Context, aay 1989.

Sampson, Garth C. Stylistic Boundaries among Mobile Hunter-Foragers, November
1988.
Ethnographic Inquiry

Allen, Catherine J. The L
Community, October 1988.

Fardon, Richard. Raide
October 1988.

Merrill, Wiliam L. Ra ir}
Mexico, November 1988

Peacock, games L., ane, Ruel Ww. ey Jr. Filgrims_of Paradox: Calviniem and

Weiner, Annette B., and Jane Schneider, editors. Cloth and Human Experience,
August 1989.

Werbner, Richard P. Ritual Passage, Sacred Journey: The Form, Process, and
Organization of Religious Movements, June 1989.

Classics of Smithsonian Anthropology
Mindeleff, Victor. Introduction by Peter Nabakov. l j

la Bureau of American Ethnology, 8th Annual Report
(Reissue). July 1989.

Smithsonian Library of the Solar System
Wentzel, Donat G. The Restless Sun, March 1989.

DISTRIBUTION ONLY

Newman, Debra L., compiler. Black History: A Guide to Civilian Records,
February 1989.

COPUBLICATIONS

With Airlife

Jackson, Robert. Canberra: The Operational Record, May 1989.

Penrose, Harald. An_ Ancient Air: A Biography of John Stringfellow of Chard.
February 1989.

With Air Research

Brett, R. Dallas. History of British Aviation 1908-1914, June 1989

Parry, Simon W. Intruders over Britain: The Luftwaffe Night Fighter Offensive
1940-45, June 1989.
With Conway Maritime
Andersson, Hans G.. Saab Aircraft since 1937, May 1989.

Swanborough, Gordon, and Peter M. Bowers. United States Military Aircraft since
1909, May 1989.

DIRECT MAIL, Smithsonian Books

Goodwin, Joe, editor. Images of America, June 1989.

Kennedy, Roger, editor
mith ri
The Dee South, June 1989
The Great Lakes, August 1989
The Mid-Atlantic States, July 1989
Northern New England, May 1989

The Pacific States September 1989
Kopper, ae The Smithsonian Book of North American Indians before the
Coming of the Europeans, February 1989.

Lewin, Roger. In the Age of Mankind: A Smithsonian Book of Evolution, June
1989.

Page, Jake, and Eugene Morton. Introduction by S. Dillon Ripley. Lords of the
ni August 1989.

Copublished with Marine Mammal Fund

Minasian, Stan. The Magnificent Whales and other Marine Mammals of North
America, April 1989.

Copublished with Clarkson N. Potter, Inc.
Schick, Ron. lew : j Astr' 2-1972
1988.

Copublished with Stewart Tabori & Chang

Kennedy, Roger, editor. mith
July 1989.
Kennedy, Roger, editor. The Smithsonian Guide to Historic America: Southern
New England, July 1989.

128
DIRECT MAIL, Smithsonian Recordings

relli: ] j . Performed by
Smithsonian Chamber Piayers. Single compact disc, No. ND 035. April 1989

h j i Performed by the Castle Trio. Single compact disc,
No. ND 036. April 1989

j i j f ical j Various performers.
Five compact discs, No. RD 033. April 1989

American Musical Theater: Shows, Songs & Stars. Various performers. Four
compact discs, four cassettes, or six LPs, No. RD 036. January 1989

Jazz Piano. Various performers. Four compact discs, four cassettes, or six LPs, No.

RD 039. July 1989
FEDERAL SERIES

Contributions to Anthropology

31. Laughlin, Robert M. "The Great Tzotzil Dictionary of Santo Domingo
Zinacatan with Grammatical Analysis and Historical Commentary." December
1988.

Contributions to Botany

67. Palmer, Patricia G. "A Scanning Electron Microscope Survey of the Epidermis
of East African Grasses, V, and West African Supplement." November 1988.

68. Judziewicz, Emmet J. "Morphological, Anatomical, and Taxonomic Studies in
and Streptochaeta (Poaceae: Bambusoideae)." March 1989.

69. Soderstrom, Thomas R. "A Revision of the Genus Olyra and the New
Segregate Genus Parodiolyra (Poaceae: Bambusoideae: Olyreae)." June 1989.

70. Funk, V.A. "A Bibliography of Plant Collectors in Bolivia." January 1989.

72. Soderstrom, Thomas R. "The Woody Bamboos (Poaceae: Bambuseae) of Sri
Lanka: A Morphological-Anatomical Study." December 1988.

Contributions to the Earth Sciences
28. Marvin, Ursula B., editor. "Field and Laboratory Investigations of Meteorites

from Victoria Land and the Thiel Mountains Region, Antarctica, 1982-1983
and 1983-1984." February 1989.
Contributions to the Marine Sciences

34. Phillips, Ronald C. "Seagrasses." December 1988.

Contributions to Paleobiology

65. Cooper, G. Arthur. "Jurassic Brachipods of Saudi Arabia." gay 1989.

66. McDonald, Jerry N. "The Autochthonous North American Musk Oxen
heri and Gidleva (Mammalia: Artiodactyla: Bovidae)." June
1989.

Contributions to Zoology

466.Chace, Fenner A., Jr. "The Caridean Shrimps (Crustacea: Decapoda) of the _
Albatross Philippine Expedition, 1907-1010, Part 5: Family Alpheidae.”
December 1988.

467. Kornicker, Louis S. "Bathyal and Abyssal Myodocopid Ostracoda of the Bay
of Biscay and Vicinity." August 1989.

469. Balouet, Jean Christophe. "Fossil Birds from Late Quaternary Deposits in
New Caledonia." January 1989.

470. Kornicker, Louis S. "New Ostracoda (Halocyprida: Thaumatocyprididae and
Halocyprididae) from Anchialine Caves in the Bahamas, Palau, and Mexico."
February 1989.

471. Vari, Richard P. "A Phylogenetic Study of the Neotropical Characiform
Family Curimatidae (Pisces: Ostariophysi)." February 1989.

472. Flint, Oliver S., Jr. "Studies of Neotropical Caddisflies XXXIX: The Genus
Smicridea in the Chilean Subregion (Trichoptera: Hydro psychidae)."
February 1989.

473. Manning, Raymond B. "The Pinnixa cristata Complex in the Western
Atlantic, with a Description of Two New Species (Crustacea: Decapoda:
Pinnotheridae)." August 1989.

475. Kornicker, Louis S. "Ostracoda (Myodocopina, Cladocopina, Halocypridina)
Mainly from Anchialine Caves in Bermuda." May 1989.

476. Kenk, Roman. "Revised List of the North American Freshwater Planarians
(Platyhelminthes: Tricladida: Paludicola)." January 1989.

482. Abele, Lawrence G. "The Decapod Crustaceans of the Panama Canal."
March 1989.

483. Kornicker, Louis S. "Troglobitic Ostracoda (Myodocopa: Cypridinidae,

Thaumatocyprididae) from Anchialine Pools on Santa Cruz Island, Galapagos
Islands." February 1989.

130
490. Vari, Richard P. "Systematics of the Neotropical Characiform Genus Pseudo
curimata Fernandez-Yepez (Pisces: Ostariophysi)." September 1989.

494. McGinley, Ronald J. "A Catalog and Review of Immature Apoidea
(Hymenoptera)." August 1989.

Studies in History and Technology

49. Janssen, Barbara Suit. "Technology in Miniature: American Textile Patent
Models 1819-1840." February 1989.

50. Vogel, Robert M. "Vertical Transportation in Old Back Bay, A Museum Case
Study: The Acquisition of a Small Residential Hydraulic Elevator."
December 1988.

MUSEUMS, BUREAUS, AND RELATED ORGANIZATIONS

American Historical Association
American Historical Association Annual Report, 1987, October 1988.

Anacostia Museum

Hutchinson, Louise, and Gail Lowe. Kind Regards of Solomon G, Brown, June
1989. Exhibition catalog.

James, Portia. Th M _ African-Ameri Invention Innov
1619-1930, October 1989. Exhibition catalog.

Arthur M. Sackler Gallery
Arthur M. Sackler Calendar of Events, Brochure, issued bimonthly.

Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden
HMSG Calendar of Events, Published three times a year.

National Air and Space Museum
Archival Videodisc 6 (Lunar Mission Imagery). September 1989.

National Museum of African Art
Calendar of Programs and Exhibitions, Published three times a year.
Barley, Nigel. f 2 h } iew
Ancestral Screens. November 1988. Exhibition catalog.
National Museum of Natural History
Atoll Research Bulletin 312-320. March 1989.

Office of Elementary and Secondary Education
Let’s Go to the Smithsonian. Quarterly newsletter.
Art to Zoo, Quarterly newsletter.

Office of Environmental Management and Safety
Brochures:
rtable P r ]
Ground Fault Circuit
Materi lin
Lockout
Welding, Cutting, Brazing
Respiratory Protection

Office of Fellowships and Grants

Smithsonian Opportunities for Research and Study, October 1988.
Fellowships-in-Residence at the Smithsonian Institution, Poster.

Office of the Secretary
Bylaws of the Board of Regents. Brochure. April 1989.

Invitation to annual garden party. May 1989.

INSTITUTIONAL REPORTS

Smithsonian Year, 1988, April 1989.
ithsoni (Microfiche edition). August 1989.

132
Appendix 5
Publications of the Staff of the Smithsonian Institution
and Its Subsidiaries in Fiscal Year 1989

JOSEPH HENRY PAPERS

Rumm, John C. "Working Through the Records: Using Business Records to Study
Workers and the Management of Labour." Archivaria 27 (Winter 1988-89):
67-96.

Theerman, Paul H. "Edinburgh" and ''Physics" in Victorian Britain: An
Encyclopedia, ed. Sally Mitchell (New York: Garland Publishing, 1988).

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK

Animal Exhibit Departments

Beck, B.B. and M. Power. 1988. Correlates of sexual and maternal competence
in captive gorillas. Zoo Biology 7:339-350.

Bronikowski, E.J., B.B. Beck and M. Power. 1989. Innovation, Exhibition and
Conservation: Free-ranging Tamarins at the National Zoological Park.
Annual Conference.

Brown, J.L., D. E. Wildt, L.G. Phillips, Jr.,J. Seidensticker, S.B.U.
Fernando, S. Miththapala and K.L. Goodrowe. 1989. Adrenal-pituitary-
gonadal relationships and ejaculate characteristics and in captive
leopards (Panthera pardus kotiya) isolated on the island of Sri Lanka.
Journal of Reproduction and Fertility 85:605-613.

Crissey, S., E.F. Stephens, F. Cusimano and S. Derrickson. 1989. A
submersible diet for ducks to control disease and cost. Journal of Zoo
and Wildlife Medicine 20(1):68-72.

Hitchcock, P., J. Seidensticker and Effendy Sumardja. 1988. Dumoga-Bone
National Park: conservation for development in North Sulawesi. A
report from the Indonesia 1982-1986 Conservation for Development
Pogrammme, World Wildlife Fumd, Bogor. 65 pp.

Marcellini, D.L. and T.A. Jenssen. 1989. Thermal ecology of the tropical
iguanid lizard, Leiocephalus schreibersi. American Midland Naturalist
122:44-50.

Miththapala, S., J. Seidensticker, L.G. Phillips, Jr., S.B.U. Fernando and
J.A. Smallwood. 1989. Identifying individual leopards (Panthera pardus
kotiya) using spot pattern variation. Journal of Zoology, London

218:527-536.
Seidensticker, J. 1988. From the ridge of the fan. ZooGoer 17(6):27-30.
-—----. 1989. Bat cave. ZooGoer 18(4):20-21.

Xanten, W.A., D.S. Kessler and J. Grumm. 1988. Breeding and Management of
Prevost squirrel Callosciurus prevosti at the National Zoological Park..
International Zoo Yearbook, Vol. 27 pp. 283-286.
Office of Public Affairs

Bretzfelder, Marc 1989. Artificial Reproduction: A "last hope" for some
endangered species. Smithsonian News Service, February.

----- , Marc 1989. Panda’s pseudopregnancy reveals valuable information.
Smithsonian Institution Research Reports, No. 56 (Winter)

Gibson, Margaret F. 1989. F.B.I. investigates tamarins. Zoogoer V. 18(4):25.

Hoage, Robert J. 1989 Perceptions of animals in American culture. JZoogoer V.
18(4):31.

Morgan, Michael M. 1989. William Temple Hornaday: Visionary of the National
Zoological Park. Smithsonian News Service, February. >

Department of Animal Health

Andrews, J.C., J.G. Howard, G.D. Bavister and D.E. Wildt. 1989. Use of salt-
stored zonae pellucidae for evaluating sperm capacitation in the
domestic cat. Proceedings: Serono Symposium on Fertility in Mammals p.
72.

Brown, J.L., M. Bush, D. Jannsen, C. Packer, A. Pusey, S. Monfort and D.E.
Wildt. 1989. Influence of age and gender on reproductive and endocrine
characteristics in free-ranging East African lions. Proceedings:
Society for the Study of Reproduction, Biology of Reproduction,
Supplement 1,40:158.

Howard, J.G., S.L. Hurlbut and M. Bush. 1989. Compromised zona binding and
penetration of homologous oocytes by spermatozoa from teratospermic
domestic cats. Proceedings: Society for the Study of Reproduction,
Biology of Reproduction Supplement 1,40:161.

-----, S.L. Hurlbut, C. Morton, F. Morton, M. Bush and D.E. Wildt. 1989.
Pregnancies in the domestic ferret after laparoscopic artificial
insemination with frozen-thawed spermatozoa. Proceedings: American
Society of Andrology, Journal of Andrology 10:135.

----- , S.L. Hurlbut, M. Bush and D.E. Wildt. 1989. Sperm function in leopard
cats (Felis bengalensis) as measure by in vitro penetration of zona-free
hamster ova and zona-intact domestic cat oocytes. Proceedings: Serono
Symposium on the Fertility of Mammals p. 79.

Johnson, L.A., A.M. Miller, S.J. O’Brien and D.E. Wildt. 1989. Culture
medium and protein supplementation influence in vetro fertilization and
embryo development in the domestic cat. Serono Symposium on the
Fertility of Mammals p. 79.

------ , S.J. O’Brien and D.E. Wildt. 1989. In vitro maturation and
fertilization of domestic cat follicular oocytes. Proceedings:
International Embryo Transfer Society, Theriogenology 31:207.

Miller, A.M., L. A. Johnston, S.L. Hurlbut and D.E. Wildt. 1989.
Intrafollicular domestic cat oocytes and later corpus luteum function
are sensitive to the timing of gonadotropin stimulation. Proceedings:
Society for the Study of Reproduction, Biology of Reproduction
Supplement 1,40:96.

--—---, M.E. Roelke, K.L. Goodrowe, J.G. Howard and D.E. Wildt. 1989. Oocyte
recovery, maturation and fertilization in vitro in puma (Felis
concolor). Proceedings: International Embryo Transfer Society,
Theriogenology 31:228.

Monfort, S.L., K.D. Dahl, N.M. Czekala, L. Stevens, M. Bush and D.E. Wildt.
1989. Monitoring ovarian function and pregnancy in the giant panda
(Ailuropoda melanoleuca) by evaluating urinary bioactive follicle-
stimulating hormone and steroid metabolities. Journal of Reproduction
and Fertility 85:203-212.

Pontbriand, D., J.G. Howard, M.C. Schiewe, L.D. Stuart and D.E. Wildt. 1989.
Effects of cryoprotective diluent and method of freeze-thawing on
survival and acrosomal integrity of ram spermatozoa. Cryobiology
26:341-354.

Rall, W.F., M.C. Schiewe, M. Bush and D.E. Wildt. 1989. Cryopreservation of
oocytes and embryos collected from wildlife species. Proceedings:
Annual Meeting of the Society of Cryobiology abstract 80.

Rideout, B.A., R. J. Montali, R.S. Wallace, M. Bush, L.G. Phillips, Jr., T.T.
Antorovych and S.G. Sabnis. 1989. Renal medullary amyloidosis in

Doreas gazelles. Veterinary Pathology 26:129-135.
Schmidt, P.M., S.L. Monfort and D.E. Wildt. 1989. PMSG source influences

fertilization and fresh or thawed embryo development but the effect is
genotype-specific. Gamete Research 23:11-20.

Tear, J.A., B.L. Raphael, M. Bush. 1988. Pharmacokinetics of intravenous and
intramuscular gentamicin in Markhor (capra falconeri). Journal of zoo
Animal Medicine 19(3):110-115.

Wasser, S.K., L. Risler and R.A. Steiner. 1988. Excreted steroids in primate
feces over the menstrual cycle and pregnancy. Biology of Reproduction

39:862-872.
Wildt, D.E. and U.S. Seal. 1988. Editors for monograph, Research Priorities
for Single Species Conservation Biology. National Science Foundation,

Washington, D.C.

----- . 1989. Strategies for the practical application of reproductive
technologies to endangered species. Zoo Biology supplement 1:17-20.

----- and K.L. Goodrowe. 1989. The potential for embryo technology in the
black-footed ferret. In: Conservation Biology and the Black-Footed
Ferret, U.S. Seal, E.T. Thorme, M.A. Bogan and S.H. Anderson, eds. Yale
University Press, New Haven, pp. 160-176.

-----, J.G. Howard, M. Bush and W.F. Rall. 1989. Strategies for
cryopreservation of spermatozoa from wildlife species. Proceedings:
Annual Meeting of the Society of Cryobiology abstract 79.

-----, M. Bush, C. Morton, F. Morton and J.G. Howard. 1989. Semen
characteristics and testosterone profiles in ferrets kept in long-day
Photoperiod, and the influence of hCG timing and sperm dilution on
pregnancy rate after laparoscopic insemination. Journal of Reproduction
and Fertility 86:349-358.

Department of Pathology

Armstrong, D.L., R.J. Montali, A.B. Doster and K.R. Kazacos. 1989.
Cerebrospinal Nematodiasis in Macaws due to Baylisascaris procyonis.

Montali, R.J. and K. Kelly. 1989. Pathological survey and review of diseases
of captive Maned Wolves (Chrysocyon brachyurus) and Bush Dogs (Speothos
venaticus). Proceedings of the International Symposium of Diseases of
Zoo Animals, pp. 35-43, Dortmund, Germany.

--—-, R. Wallace, L.G. Phillips, Jr., M. Bush, M. Roberts, S. Crissey, K.
Warnell, O. Oftedal, T. Shaugnessy and L. Rabin. 1989. Hepatopathy and
hypercholesterolemia in red pandas associated with a diet change. In:
Red Panda Biology pp 31-40, SPB Academic Publishing, The Hague.
Munson, L., S.K. Chandler and D.H. Schlafer. 1988. Cultivation of bovine
fetal and adult endometrial epithelial cells. Journal of Tissue Culture
Techniques 11:129-133.

----- , S.K. Chandler and D.H. Schlafer. 1988. Long-term culture of bovine
trophoblastic cells. Journal of Tissue Culture Techniques 11:123-128.

-----, C.A. Wiley, W.P. Heuschele and D.L. Janssen. 19889. Tremors due to
hypomyelinization in a herd of Angolian springbok (Antidorcas
marsupialis angolensis). In Proceedings: American Association of Zoo
Veterinarians, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

----- and R.J. Montali. 1989. Diseases and Pathology of Great Apes at the
National Zoological Park. Proceedings of meeting on "Fertility in Great
Apes", Atlanta, Georgia.

Nichols, D.K., M.J. Wolff, L.G. Phillips, Jr., and R.J. Montali. 1989.
Coagulopathy in Pink-backed Pelicans (Pelecanus rufescens) Associated
with Hypervitaminosis E. Journal of Zoo and Wildlife Medicine 20(1) pp.

57-61.
Partington, C.J., C.H. Gardiner, D. Fritz, L.G. Phillips, Jr. andR. J.
Montali. 1989. Atoxoplasmosis in Bali Mynahs (Leucopsar rothschildi).

Ramsay, E.C., R.J. Montali, M. Worley, C.B. Stephensen and K. Holmes. 1989.
Callitrichid Hepatitis: Epizootiology of a Fatal Hepatitis in Zoo
Tamarins and Marmosets. Journal of Zoo and Wildlife Medicine 20(2) pp.
178-183.

Rideout, B.A., R.J. Montali, R.S. Wallace, Bush, M., L.G. Phillips Jr., T.T.
Antonovych, S.G. Sabnis. 1989. Renal Medullary Amyloidosis in Dorcas
Gazelles. Veterinary Pathology 26(2), pp. 129-135, 1989.

Schiller, C.A., M.J. Wolff, L. Munson, and R.J. Montali. 1989. Streptococcus
zooepidemicus Infections of Possible Horsemeat Source in Red-Bellied
Tamarins and Goeldi’s Monkeys. Journal of Zoo and Wildlife Medicine
20(3) pp. 322-327.

Department of Conservation

August, P.V., S.G. Ayvazian and J.G.T. Anderson. 1989. Magnetic orientation
in a small mammal: Peromyscus leucopus. Journal of Mammalogy 70:1-9.

Berger, J. 1989. Female Reproductive Potential and Its Apparent
Discrimination by Male Mammals. Journal of Mammalogy 70:347-358.

------ and M. Kock. 1989. Type I and Type II Errors in the Real World.
Journal of Wildlife Diseases 25(3).

Collins, L., C. Wemmer and J. Smith. 1988. The Small Animal Facility at the
Conservation and Research Center of the National Zoological Park.
International Zoo Yearbook 27:327-334.

Dinerstein, E., C. Wemmer and H. Mishra. 1988. Adoption in Greater One-
horned Rhinoceros Rhinoceros unicornis. Journal of Mammalogy 69:813-
814.

----- » 1988. A review of Wild Horses of the Great Basin by Joel Berger.
Journal of Mammalogy 69:206-208.

——=— and C. Wemmer. 1988. Fruits Rhinoceros eat: dispersal of Trewia
nudiflora in lowland Nepal. Ecology 69:1768-1774.

----- ,» C. Wemmer and H. Mishra. 1988. Adoption in greater one-horned
rhinoceros (Rhinoceros unicornis). Journal of Mammalogy 69(4):813-814.

Gold, A., S. Tso, P.V. August and W. Wright. 1989. Aquifer delineation using
soil surveys. Journal of Soil and Water Conservation 44:232-234.

136
Haig, S., J. Ballou and S. Derrickson. 1988. Evaluation of Management
Options for Guam Rails Using Pedigree Data. Proceedings of the American
Association of Zoological Parks and Aquarium Annual Conference 507-510.

Holzenbein, S. and G. Schwede. 1989. Activity and movement patterns of
female white-tailed deer during the rut. Journal of Wildlife Management
53:219-223.

LaBash, C., D. Walters, P. August and C. Smith. 1989. Standardizing a GIS
data base. Proceedings of the Environmental System Research Institute
Conference, Redlands, CA.

Lehmkuhl, J.F., R.K. Upreti and U.R. Sharma. 1988. National parks and local
development: grasses and people in Royal Chitwan National Park, Nepal.
Environmental Conservation 15:143-148.

McCann, A., J. Lemmyon, L. Thompson, and P. August. 1989. A geographic
information system study of Block Island soils. Rhode Island
Cooperative Extension, University of Rhode Island.

McShea, W.J. and D.M. Madison. 1989. Measurements of reproductive traits in
a field population of meadow voles. Journal of Mammalogy 70(1):132-141.

----- , 1989. Reproductive synchrony and home range size in a territorial
microtine. Oikos 56:1-5.

----- , L. Hartman, J. Blew and S. Mabey. 1989. Breeding bird census: Tulip
tree-hickory forest. Journal of Field Ornithology Supplement, 60:32.

Schwede, G. H. and Hendrichs. 1989. Mother-infant relations in white-tailed
deer (Odocoileus virginianus). Abstracts of posters and papers. Fifth
International Theriological Conference, 2:834-835.

----- , 1989. A fawn’s life. Zoogoer 18:26-27.

----- , 1989. Rote Chorknaben. Das Tier 61-63.

Smith, C., L. Thompson and P. August. 1989. Error in spatial data: A
practical view. Proceedings Environmental System Research Institute
Conference, Redlands, CA.

Stuwe, M. and K. Scribner. 1989. Low Genetic Variability in Reintroduced
Alpine Ibex (Capra ibex ibex) Populations. Journal of Mammalogy
70(2):370-373.

Walters, D.H., P. August and W. Wright. 1989. Legal issues in GIS database
development and distribution. Proceedings of the Environmental System
Research Institute Conference, Redlands, CA.

Wemmer, C. and R. Montali. 1988. Latrine use and the subcaudal gland of the
brow-antlered deer, Cervus eldi thamin. Journal of Mammalogy,
69(4):815-818.

----- and C. Grodinsky. 1988. Reproduction in Captive Female Brow-antlered
Deer (Cervus eldi thamin). Journal of Mammalogy 69(2):389-393.

-----, T. Halverson, M. Rodden and T. Portillo. 1989. The Reproductive
Biology of Female Pére David’s Deer (Elaphurus davidianus). Zoo Biology
8:49-55. ;

----- and M. Sunquist. 1988. Felid Reintroductions: Economic and Energetic
Considerations. Proceedings of the Fifth International Snow Leopard
Symposium, Srinagar, India, October, 1986. Edited by Helen Freeman, pp.
193-205.

----- and V. Krishnamurthy. 1989. Methods for taking standard measurements
of live domestic Asiatic elephants. Symposium on Ecology, Biology,
Management and Diseases of the Asian Elephant. Mannuthy, Trichur,
Kerala, India, January 16-19, 1989.

137
Department of Zoological Research

Allen, M.E. and O.T. Oftedal. 1989. Dietary manipulation of the calcium
content of feed crickets. Journal of Zoo and Wildlife Medicine 20:26-
33.

Ballou, J.D. 1989. Inbreeding and outbreeding depression in the
captive propagation of black-footed ferrets (Mustela nigripes). In U.S.
Seal, E.T. Thorne, M.A. Bogan and S.H. Anderson (eds): Conservation
Biology and the black-footed Ferret. New Haven, CT, Yale Univ. Press,
Pp. 49-68.

Beissinger, S.R.,.B.T. Thomas and S.D. Strahl. 1988. Vocalizations, food
habits, and nesting biology of the slender-billed kite with comparisons
to the snail kite. Wilson Bulletin 100:604-615.

Boness, D.J., W.D. Bowen and O.T. Oftedal. 1988. Evidence of polygyny from
spatial patterns of hooded seals (Cystophora cristata). Canadian
Journal of Zoology 66:703-706.

Boness, D.J. 1989. Review of "American fur seal diplomacy: The Alaskan fur
seal controversy," By James Thomas Gay. Journal of Wildlife Management
5S(L)2272-21 3%

Brownell, R.L., Jr., K. Ralls and W.F. Perrin. 1989. The plight of the
"forgotten" whales. Oceanus 32:5-9.

Chaudhuri, M., D.G. Kleiman, D.E. Wildt, M. Bush, E.S. Frank and
R.B. Thau. 1988. Urinary steroid concentrations during natural and
gonadotrophin-induced oestrus and pregnancy in the giant panda
(Ailuropoda melanoleuca). Journal of Reproduction and Fertility 84:23-
28.

Crissey, S.D., E.F. Stevens, F. Cusimano and S. Derrickson. 1989. A
submersible diet for ducks to control disease and cost. Journal of
Zoological Wildlife Medicine 20(1):68-72.

Derrickson, K. 1988. Variation in repertoire presentation in northern
mockingbirds. Condor 90:592-606.

------ . 1988. Review of "Voices of all the mockingbirds, thrashers and their
allies - Family Mimadae." Auk 105:822-823.

aan - 1989. Review of "The birder’s handbook: A field guide to the natural
history of North American birds." ZooGoer 18:28-29.

------ - 1989. Bigamy in Northern mockingbirds: circumventing female-female
aggression. Condor 91:728-732.

Domingues, R.A.P, H.R.L. Pugialli and J.M. Dietz. 1989. Densidade e
diversidade de fauna fitotelmata em bromelias de quatro tipos de
florestas degradadas. Review Brasil Biology 49(1):125-129, Fevereiro -
Rio de Janeiro, RJ.

Foose, T.J. and J.D. Ballou. 1988. Population management: theory and
practice. International Zoo Yearbook 27:26-41.

Gittleman, J.L. and S.D. Thompson. 1989. Energetics and animal behavior.
American Zoologist 28:813-814.

SoS » and S.D. Thompson. 1989. Energy allocation in mammalian
reproduction. America Zoologist 28:863-676.

Glatston, A. and M. Roberts. 1988. The current status and future prospects
of the red panda (Ailurus fulgens) studbook population. Zoo Biology
7:47-59.

Gradwohl. J. and R. Greenberg (eds.). 1988. Saving the tropical forests.
Earthscan Press.

—----- and R. Greenberg. 1989. Migratory non-game bird programs of the Fish
and Wildlife Services. Audubon Wildlife Reports.

Greenberg, R. 1988. Seasonal plumage dimorphism in the swamp sparrow.
Journal of Field Orinthology V. 59(2):149-154.

Haig, S.M., J.D. Ballou and S.R. Derrickson. 1988. Demographic analyses of
Guam rails using pedigree data. Proceedings of the American Association
of Zoological Parks and Aquariums Pp. 507-510.

------, J.D. Ballou and S.R. Derrickson. 1988. Demographic analyses of Guam
rails using pedigree data. Proceedings of the American Association of
Zoological Parks and Aquariums Pp. 507-510.

Kleiman, D.G., R.-J. Hoage and K.M. Green. 1988. The lion. tamarins, Genus
Leontopithecus. In: Ecology and behavior of neotropical primates,
Vol. 2., pp. 299-347. R. Mittermeir, A.B. Rylands, A.F. Colmbra-Filho
and G.A.B. de Fonseca, eds. World Wildlife Fund, Washington, D.C.

Kleiman, D.G., B. Beck, J. Dietz, L. Dietz and J.D. Ballou. 1988. Locals
help to save tamarins. On the Edge 34:4-5.

------ . 1989. Reintroduction of captive mammals for conservation:
guidelines for reintroducing endangered species into the wild.
BioScience, 39:152-160.

McDonald, M.V. 1989. Fumction of song in Scott’s seaside sparrows Ammodramus
maritimus peninsulae. Animal Behaviour 38(3)468-485.

----- . 1989. Technical status survey of two Florida seaside sparrows, and
taxonomic review of the seaside sparrow assemblage. Report 32. In:
Report to the Endangered Species Office, U. S. Fish and Wildlife
Service.

Morton, E.S. 1988. The truly long termed trend in populations of the purple
martin. Purple Martin Update 1: 20-22.

------ . 1988. Dawnsong of the purple martin. Atlantic Naturalist 38: 38-48.

------ - 1988. "Innate": Outdated and inadequate or linguistic convenience?
Brain and Behavioral Sciences 11: 642-643.

------ and N. Tsipoura. 1988. Song-type distribution in a population of
Kentucky warblers. Wilson Bulletin 100: 9-16.

------. 1989. Purple dawn. Purple Martin Update 2:10-13.

------ . 1989. Female hooded warbler plumage does not become more male-like
with age. Wilson Bulletin 101: 460-462.

------ and R. Greenberg. 1989. The outlook for migratory songbirds: "Future
shock" for birders. American Birds 43:178-183.

Montali, R., R. Wallace, L. Phillips, M. Bush, M. Roberts, S. Crissey, K.
Warnell, O. Oftedal, M. Edwards and L. Rabin. 1989. Hepatopathology
and hypercholesterolemia in red pandas associated with a diet change.
Pp. 31-41 in Red panda biology, A. Glatston, ed. SPB Academic
Publishing, The Hague.

Oftedal, O.T. and J.G. Gittleman. 1989. Patterns of energy output during
reproduction in carnivores. Pp. 355-378 in: Carnivore behavior,
ecology and evolution. J. G. Gittleman (eds.), Cornell University
Press, Ithaca, N.Y.

------ and R. Jenness. 1988. Interspecies variation in milk composition
among horses, zebras and asses (Perissiodactyla: Equidae). Journal of
Dairy Research 55:57-66.

------ ,» D.J. Boness and W.D. Bowen. 1988. The composition of hooded seal
(Cystophora cristata) milk: an adaptation to postnatal fattening.
Canadian Journal of Zoology 66:318-322. ;

Ralls, K. and R.L. Brownell, Jr. 1988. Sperm competition in the grey whale.
Nature 336:116-117.
------. 1989. A semi-captive breeding program for the baiji, Lipotes
vexilifer: genetic and demographic considerations. In: Biology and
conservation of the river dolphins, pps. 150-156. W.F. Perrin, R.L.
Brownell, Jr., Zhou Kaiya and Liu Jainkang (eds.). IUCN Species
Survival Commission Occasional Paper No. 3.

----—--. 1989. Review of "Sounds of silence" by G.B. Schaller. Animal
Behaviour 37:1059.

------ and R.L. Brownell, Jr. 1989. Protected species: research permits and
the value of basic research. BioScience 39:394-396.

Roberts, M. 1988. The great umwatched - urban wildlife in the zoo. ZooGoer
Lis 13

------ , K. Thompson and J. Cranford. 1988. Reproduction and growth in the
punare (Thrichomys apereoides; Rodentia:Echimidae) of the Brazilian
Caatinga with reference to the reproductive strategies of the
Echimyidae. Journal of Mammalogy 69:542-552.

------ - 1989. A survey and analysis of management practices in the North
American red panda SSP. In: Red panda biology pps. 129-153. A.
Glatston, ed. SPB Academic Publishing, The Hague.

------ . 1989. The North American regional program. In: The red or lesser
panda studbook, number 5, pps 23-25. The Royal Rotterdam Zoological and
Botanical Gardens, Rotterdam.

------ , L. Phillips and F. Kohn. 1989. The common ringtail possum
(Pseudocheirus peregrinus) as a management model for the
Pseudocheiridae: reproductive scope, behavior and biomedical values on a
browse-free diet. Zoo Biology 8:1-20.

Snyder, N.F.R., S.R Beissinger and M.R. Fuller. 1989. Reproduction and
demography of the Florida (Everglades) kite. Condor 91:300-316.

—————= , §.R. Beissinger and M. R. Fuller. 1989. Solar radio-transmitters on
snail kites in Florida. Journal of Field Ornithology 60:171-177.

Thompson, S.D. 1989. Thermoregulation in the water opossum (Chironectes
minimus): an exception that proves a rule. Physiological Zoology
61:450-60.

Warnell, K.J., S.D. Crissey and O.T. Oftedal. 1989. Utilization of bamboo
and other fiber sources in red panda diets. In: Red panda biology,
pps. 51-56. A.R. Glatston, ed. SPB Academic Publishing, The Hague.

Wilson, N., J.M. Dietz and J.O. Whitaker, Jr. 1989. Ectoparasitic Acari Found
on Golden Lion Tamarins (Leontopithecus rosalia rosalia) from Brazil.
Journal of Wildlife Diseases 25:433-435.

140
OFFICE OF AMERICAN STUDIES

Washburn, Wilcomb E. “It's Not the Name 'Redskins' That Maligns

Indians," Washington Post, April 23, 1988.

"The Possibilities of the Columbian
Quincentennial," Ideas '92, 1 (2) (Spring 1988): 29-41
[Expanded version of Washington Post article cited in 1987
co-authored with Joan R. Challinor].

"The Academic Profession and Contemporary
Politics," Minerva: A Review of Science, Learning and
Policy, 26 (3) (Autumn 1988): 392-415.

""Vexatious Oral Exchange': A Talk to the
Dartmouth Class of 1948," Academic Questions, 2 (1), (Winter
1988-89) [Full text of article entitled "Liberalism versus
Free Speech" in the National Review, September 30, 1988].

RS ep es NS “Introduction to ‘Context section) of

L'Indianite: Contextes et Perspectives, Revue Francaise
d'Etudes Americaines, (Presses Universitaires de Nancy,
13 (38) (November 1988): 319-322.

Handbook of North American Indians, Vol. 4,
Indian-White Relations, (editor), (Washington: Smithsonian
institution, 198s) 3 838 pp.

"The First European Contacts with the
American Indians," in Revista da Universidade de Coimbra,
Vol. XXXIV (Lisboa: Instituto de Investigacao Cientifica
Tropical, 1988), serie separatas 208: 439-446.

"Anthropological Advocacy in the Hopi-
Navajo Land Dispute," American Anthropologist 91 (3)
(September 1989): 738-743.

Keynote Address, Scholarship and Museums:
Roles _ and Responsibilities, Proceedings of the Ninth Museum
Studies Conference, University of Delaware, April 9, 1988,
edited by Bryant F. Tolles, Jr. (Newark: University of
Delaware, 1989): 7-17.

141
SMITHSONIAN ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY

Aaronson, M.; Bothun, G.; Cornell, M.; Dawe, J.; Dickens, R.; Hall, P.; Sheng,
H. M.; Huchra, J.; Lucey, J.; Mould, J.; Murray, J.; Schommer, R.; and
Wright, A. E. “Large Peculiar Velocities in the Hydra-Centaurus Supercluster.”
Astrophysical Journal 338 (1989): 654.

Adams, F.; Freese, K.; Levin, J.; and McDowell, J. C. “Spectral Distortions of the
Cosmic Microwave Background.” Astrophysical Journal 344 (1989): 24.

Alpert, Y. L.; Fligel, D. S.; and Yaraslavtsev, A. A. “Spectra and Geomagnetic
Pulsations of Complex Shape and Simulation of their Generation Process.”
Planetary and Space Science 37 (1989): 391.

Andersen, J.; Lindgren, H.; Hazen, M. L.; and Mayor, M. “The Pre-Main-Sequence
Binary System AK Scorpii.” Astronomy and Astrophysics 219 (1989): 142.
Anderson, J. D.; Borderies, N. J.; Campbell, J. K.; Dunne, J. A.; Ellis, J.; Hellings,
R. W.; Lau, E. L.; Preston, R. A.; Traxler, M. R.; Williams, J. G.; Yoder,
C. F.; Chandler, J. F.; Reasenberg, R. D.; Shapiro, I. I.; Berthias, J. P.;
Blamont, J.; Linkin, V. M.; Kerzhanovich, V. V.; Akim, E. L.; and Ivanov,
N.M. “Testing General Relativity with Landers on the Martian Satellite Phobos.”

Advances in Space Research 9(9) (1989): 71.

Anglada, G.; Rodriguez, L. F.; Torrelles, J. M.; Estalella, R.; Ho, P. T. P.; Canté,
J.; Lépez, R.; and Verdes-Montenegro, L. “Ammonia Observations of Outflow
Regions.” Astrophysical Journal 341 (1989): 208.

Arnett, W. D.; Bahcall, J. N.; Kirshner, R. P.; and Woosley, S. E. “Supernova 1987A.”
Annual Review of Astronomy and Astrophysics 27 (1989): 629.

Avrett, H. H., and Fontela, J. M. “Hydrogen Ionization and Energy Balance in the Solar
Transition Region.” In SMM Workshop on non-LTE Radiative Transfer and
Energy Balance, ed. S. A. Drake, p. 2-11. Greenbelt, Maryland: Goddard
Space Flight Center, 1988.

Babb, J. F., and Spruch, L. “Retardation (Casimir) Effect for a Multielectron Core
System and a Rydberg Electron.” Physical Review A 40 (1989): 2917.

Babcock, R. W.; Marshall, H. W.; Reasenberg, R. D.; and Reasenberg, S. “Full Aper-
ture Metrology for High Precision Astrometry.” In Topical Meeting on Space
Optics for Astrophysics and Earth and Planetary Remote Sensing, 1988 Techni-
cal Digest Series, vol. 10, p. 22. Washington, D.C.: Optical Society of Amer-
ica, 1988.

Bailyn, C. D.; Garcia, M. R.; and Grindlay, J. E. “Outflow from the Outer Lagrangian
Point: Observations and Models of 4U 2127+12 in M15.” Astrophysical Journal
344 (1989): 786.

Baliunas, S. L. “Call for Participation in a Global Network of Automatic Telescopes.”
International Amateur Professional Photoelectric Photometry Communications
35 (1989): 12.

“World-Wide Network of Automatic Telescopes.” In Automatic Small

Telescopes, eds. R. Genet and D. S. Hayes, p. 125. Mesa, Arizona: Fairborn

Press, 1989.

142
. “A State of Astrophysics at Mount Wilson Observatory.” In Report to Mount
Wilson Institute Board of Directors. Pasadena, California: Mount Wilson
Institute, 1989.

. “Dedication of the 0.75 m APT: Brightness Variations and Magnetic Activity

in Cool Stars.” In Automatic Small Telescopes, eds. R. Genet and D. S. Hayes,

p. 83. Mesa, Arizona: Fairborn Press, 1989.

. “Starspot Cycles and Climatology.” In Foundation for Study of Cycles, Pro-

ceedings of the 1989 Annual Conference, p. 45. Irvine, California: Foundation

for the Study of Cycles, 1989.

. “Long-Term Magnetic Activity Variations of Lower Main Sequence Stars.” In
Formation and Evolution of Low Mass Stars, Proceedings of NATO Advanced
Study Institute, eds. A. K. Dupree and M. T. V. T. Lago, p. 319. Dordrecht,
Holland: Kluwer Academic Publishers, 1988.

Baliunas, S. L.; Genet, R.; and Hayes, D., eds. Selected Papers on Global Network of
Automatic Telescopes, Remote Access and Automatic Telescope Instruction Set.
Mesa, Arizona: Fairborn Press, 1989.

Baliunas, S. L.; Pyper-Smith, D.; and Genet, R. L. “Automatic Photoelectric Telescope
Service Summer Workshop III.” International Amateur Professional Photoelec-
tric Photometry Communications 34 (1988): 37.

Barnes, P. J.; Crutcher, R. M.; Bieging, J. H.; Storey, J. W. V.; and Willner, S. P.
“Orion B (NGC 2024). I. VLA and IR Observations of the H II Region.”
Astrophysical Journal 342 (1989): 883.

Bartel, N.; Rupen, M. R.; and Shapiro, I. I. “VLBI Observations of SN1986J: A Super-
nova with an Elongated Radio Brightness Distribution.” Astrophysical Journal
(Letters) 337 (1989): L85.

Bates, D. R., and Victor, G. A. “Alexander Dalgarno: Life and Personality.”
Advances in Atomic and Molecular Physics 25 (1988): 1.

Benson, P.J., and Myers, P.C. “A Survey for Dense Cores in Dark Clouds.”
Astrophysical Journal Supplement 71 (1989): 89.

Bevilacqua, F.; Merlina, P.; Lorenzini, E. C.; Cosmo, M.; and Bergamaschi, S.
“Tethered Gravity Laboratories Study: The Center-of-Gravity Management
Concept.” In Tethers in Space Toward Flight, p. 249. Washington, D.C.:
American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics, Inc., 1989.

Biretta, J.; Owen, F.; and Cornwell, T. “A Search for Motion and Flux Variations in
the M87 Jet.” Astrophysical Journal 342 (1989): 128.

Blair, W. P.; Raymond, J. C.; Danziger, J.; and Matteucci, F. “The Ultraviolet
Spectrum of an Oxygen-Rich Supernova Remnant in the Small Magellanic
Cloud.” Astrophysical Journal 338 (1989): 812.

Bloemhof, E. E.; Danchi, W. C.; Townes, C. H.; and McLaren, R. A. “High Spatial
Resolution 10 Micron Imaging of IRC+10216.” Astrophysical Journal 333 (1988):
300.

Bloemhof, E. E.; Reid, M. J.; and Moran, J. M. “Proper Motions of the OH Masers
in W3(OH).” In The Physics and Chemistry of Interstellar Molecular Clouds,
Lecture Notes in Physics No. 331, eds. G. Winnewisser and J. T. Armstrong, .
p. 228. Berlin: Springer-Verlag Publishing Company, 1989.

Bodo, G.; Kalkofen, W.; and Massaglia, S. “Methods for 2D Radiative Transfer in

Magnetic Flux Tubes.” In Supercomputing in Astrophysics, ed. F. Vagnetti, p.
56. Astronet Special Publication 88/1. Trieste, Italy: Osservatorio Astronomico
di Trieste, 1988.

Bodo, G.; Rosner, R.; Ferrari, A.; and Knoblock, E. “On the Stability of Magnetized
Rotating Jets: The Axisymmetric Case.” Astrophysical Journal 341 (1989): 631.

Bopp, B.W.; Saar, S. H.; Ambruster, C.; Feldman, P.; Dempsey, R.; Allen, M.;
and Barden, S. “The Active Chromosphere Binary HD 17433 (VY Ari).”
Astrophysical Journal 339 (1989): 1059.

Bregman, J., and David, L. P. “Alternative Models of Cooling Flows.” Astrophysical
Journal 341 (1989): 49.

Brissenden, R.,; Tuohy, I.; Bicknell, G.; Remillard, R.; and Schwartz, D. “A Multi-
Wavelength Study of X-Ray Selected AGN.” In Active Galactic Nuclei, Proceed-
ings of IAU Symposium No. 134, eds. D. E. Osterbrock and J. S. Miller, p. 199.
Dordrecht, Holland: Kluwer Academic Publishers, 1989.

Bronfman, L.; Nyman, L.; and Thaddeus, P. “The Largest Molecular Cloud Complexes
in the Southern Milky Way.” In The Physics and Chemistry of Interstellar Mo-
lecular Clouds, Lecture Notes in Physics No. 331, eds. G. Winnewisser and J. T.
Armstrong, p. 139. Berlin: Springer-Verlag Publishing Company, 1989.

Bruning, D. H., and Saar, S. H. “Line Asymmetries in Late-Type Dwarf Protospheres.”
In The NATO Advanced Research Workshop on Solar and Stellar Granulation,
eds. R. Rutten and G. Severino, p. 145. Dordrecht, Holland: Kluwer Academic
Publishers, 1988.

Budd, W. F.; Andrews, J. T.; Finkel, R. C.; Fireman, E. L.; Graf, W.; Hammer,
C. U.; Jouzel, J.; Raynaud, D. P.; Reeh, N.; Shoji, H.; Stauffer, .; and
Weertman, J. “How Can an Ice Core Chronology be Established?” In
The Environmental Record in Glaciers and Ice Sheets, eds. H. Oeschgers and
C. C. Langway, Jr., p. 177. New York: Wiley-Interscience Publication, 1989.

Caldwell, N., and Phillips, M. M. “Star Formation in NGC 5253.” Astrophysical Jour-
nal 338 (1989): 789.

Caldwell, N., and Schommer, R. A. “Cepheid Variables in the Phoenix Galaxy and
IC 5152.” In The Extragalactic Distance Scale, eds. S. van den Bergh and C. J.
Pritchet, p. 77. Provo, Utah: Astronomical Society of the Pacific, 1988.

Campbell, D. B.; Harmon, J. K.; and Shapiro, I. I. “Radar Observations of Comet
Halley.” Astrophysical Journal 338 (1989): 1071.

Campbell, A., and Willner, S. P. “Shocked Molecular Hydrogen in NGC 4038/4039,
‘the Antennae’.” Astronomical Journal] 97 (1989): 995.

Carleton, N. P. “The Iota Project.” In Proceedings of the NOAO-ESO Conference on
High-Resolution Imaging by Interferometry, ESO Conference and Workshop
Proceedings No. 29, ed. F. Merkle, p. 939. Garching bei Munchen, FRG: Euro-
pean Southern Observatory, 1989.

Carney, B. W.; Latham, D. W.; Jones, R. V.; and Beck, J. A. “The Distances and Ages
of Globular Clusters.” In Calibration of Stellar Ages, ed. A. G. Davis Philip, p.
31. Schenectady, New York: L. Davis Press, 1988.

Carney, B. W.; Latham, D. W.; Jones, R. B.; Beck, J. A.; and Laird, J. B. “Is There an
Age Spread in the Galactic Halo?” In The Abundance Spread Within Globular
Clusters: Spectroscopy of Individual Stars, eds. G. Cayrel de Strobel, M: Spite,

144
and T. Lloyd Evans, p. 87. Paris: Observatoire de Paris, 1989.

Carney, B. W.; Latham, D. W.; and Laird, J. B. “A Survey of Proper-Motion Stars.
VIII. On the Galaxy’s Third Population.” Astronomical Journal 97 (1989): 423.

Catura, R. C., and Golub, L. “XUV Multilayered Optics for Astrophysics.”
Revue de Physique Appliqtiee 23 (1988): 1741.

Cawley, M. F.; Fegan, D. J.; Hillas, A. M.; Kwok, P. W.; Lamb, R. C.; Lewis, D. A.;
Macomb, D. J.; Porter, N. A.; Reynolds, P. T.; Vacanti, G.; and Weekes, T. C.
“Observation of TeV Gamma-Rays from the Crab Nebula Using the Atmospheric
Cherenkov Imaging Technique.” Astrophysical Journal 342 (1989): 379.

Cernicharo, J.; Gottlieb, C. A.; Guélin, M.; Thaddeus, P.; and Vrtilek, J. M. “Astro-
nomical and Laboratory Detection of the SiC Radical.” Astrophysical Journal
(Letters) 341 (1989): L25.

Chance, K. V.; Johnson, D. G.; and Traub, W. A. “Measurement of Stratospheric
HOCI]: Concentration Profiles, Including Diurnal Variation.” Journal of Geo-
physical Research 94 (1989): 11059.

Chandler, J. F.; Babcock, R. W.; and Reasenberg, R. D. “POINTS: A Stringent Test
of General Relativity.” In Topical Meeting on Space Optics for Astrophysics and
Earth and Planetary Remote Sensing, 1988 Technical Digest Series, vol. 10, p.
19. Washington, D.C.: Optical Society of America, 1988.

Cheung, A. S.-C.; Yoshino, K.; Freeman, D. E.; Friedman, R. S.; Dalgarno, A.; and
Parkinson, W. H. “The Shumann-Runge Absorption Bands of !®0!8O in the
Wavelength Region 175-205 nm and Spectroscopic Constants of Isotopic Oxygen
Molecules.” Journal of Molecular Spectroscopy 134 (1989): 362.

Cheung, A. S.-C.; Yoshino, K.; Freeman, D. E.; and Parkinson, W. H. “Wavelength
Measurements and Analysis of the Schumann-Runge Bands of 180, in the Region
175-205 nm.” Journal of Molecular Spectroscopy 131 (1988): 96.

Chlebowski, T. “X-Ray Emission from O-Type Stars: Parameters Which Affect It.”
Astrophysical Journal 342 (1988): 1091.

Chlebowski, T.; Harnden, F. R., Jr.; and Sciortino, S. “The Einstein X-Ray
Observatory Catalog of O-Type Stars.” Astrophysical Journal 341 (1989): 427.

Churchwell, E., and Wood, D. O. S. “The Population and Distribution of Massive Stars
Embedded in Galactic Molecular Clouds.” In The Physics and Chemistry of
Interstellar Molecular Clouds, Lecture Notes in Physics No. 331, eds. G. Winne-
wisser and J. T. Armstrong, p. 87. Berlin: Springer-Verlag Publishing Company,
1989.

Coker, R.; Madore, B.; Mould, J.; Oke, J. B.; Picard, A.; Huchra, J.; and Latham, D.
“The Radii of Long Period Cepheids.” Publications of the Astronomical Society
of the Pacific 101 (1989): 594.

Collura, A.; Sciortino, S.; Serio, S.; Vaiana, G. S.; Harnden, F. R., Jr.; and Rosner,
R. “Variability of X-Ray Emission from OB Stars.” Astrophysical Journal 338
(1989): 296.

Cooper, D. L., and Kirby, K. “Theoretical Study of the (3s@) Il] Rydberg State of
CO.” Chemical Physics Letters 152 (1988): 393.

Cornell, J. C. (editor). Bubbles, Voids, and Bumps in Time: The New Cosmology.
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1989.

Coyle, L. M., and Mattison, E. M. “A Microcomputer-Based Adaptive Data Logging

145
System.” In Proceedings of the 35th International Instrumentation Symposium,
p. 285. Research Triangle Park, North Carolina: Instrument Society of America,
1989.

Cudworth, K., and Peterson, R. “Astrometric Distances of Globular Clusters.”
Publications of the Astronomical Society of the Pacific 100 (1989): 1219.

Cutri, R. M.; Low, F. J.; Kleinmann, S. G.; Olszewski, E. W.; Willner, S. P.; Campbell,
B.; and Gillett, F. C. “SSC 08546+1732: A Faint, Dust-Enshrouded Carbon Star
at High Galactic Latitude.” Astronomical Journal 97 (1989): 866.

da Costa, L. N.; Pelligrini, P. S.; Willmer, C.; de Carvalho, R.; Maia, M.; Latham,
D. W.; and Geary, J. G. “The ON-CfA Redshift Survey of the Southern
Hemisphere.” Astronomical Journal 97 (1989): 315.

da Costa, L. N.; Pelligrini, P. S.; Willmer, C.; and Latham, D. W. “A First Glimpse of
a Southern Redshift Slice.” Astrophysical Journal 344 (1989): 20.

Dame, T. M. “A Composite CO Survey of the Entire Milky Way.” In Molecular Clouds
in the Milky Way and External Galaxies, Lecture Notes in Physics No. 315, eds.
R. Dickman, R. L. Snell, and J. S. Young, p. 309. Berlin: Springer-Verlag
Publishing Company, 1988.

. “A Complete CO Survey of the Large Magellanic Cloud.” In The Physics and
Chemistry of Interstellar Molecular Clouds, Lecture Notes in Physics No. 331,
eds. G. Winnewisser and J. T. Armstrong, p. 245. Berlin: Springer-Verlag
Publishing Company, 1989.

David, L. P., and Bregman, J. “The Effects of Magnetic Fields on the Growth of
Thermal Instabilities in Cooling Flows.” Astrophysical Journal 337 (1989): 97.

de Lapparent, V.; Geller, M.; and Huchra, J. “The Luminosity Function for the CfA
Redshift Survey Slices.” Astrophysical Journal 343 (1989): 1.

DiPippo, S.; Grossi, M. D.; and Lorenzini, E. C. “The Use of SPIDER in Conjunction
with TSS.” In Tethers in Space Toward Flight, p. 418. Washington, D.C.:
American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics, Inc., 1989.

Ebstein, S. M.; Carleton, N. P.; and Papaliolios, C. “Speckle Imaging of NGC
1068 and NGC 4151 in the [OIII] 5007 A Line and Nearby Continuum.”
Astrophysical Journal 336 (1989): 103.

Elgered, G.; Davis, J. L.; Herring, T. A.; and Shapiro, I. I. “The Effects of WVR
Data from Onsala on the Repeatability of Baseline Length Determination.” In
Proceedings of the 6th Working Group Meeting on European VLBI for Geodesy
and Astrometry, ed. P. Tomasi, p. 95. Bologna: Consiglio Nazionale delle
Ricerche, Instituto di Radioastronomia, 1988.

Elvis, M.; Lockman, F. J.; and Wilkes, B. J. “Accurate Galactic Nq Values Toward
Quasars and AGN.” Astronomical Journal 97 (1989): 77.

Elvis, M.; McDowell, J.; and Wilkes, B.J. “The Infrared and X-Ray Continuum of
Quasars: Is There a Connection?” In Active Galactic Nuclei, IAU Symposium
No. 134, eds. D. E. Osterbrock and J. S. Miller, p. 184. Dordrecht, Holland:
Kluwer Academic Publishers, 1989.

Escalante, V.; Rodriguez, L. F.; Moran, J. M.; and Canté, J. “The Asymmetrical Profile
of the H76a Line Emission from MWC349.” Revista Mexicana de Astronomia y
Astrofisica 17 (1989): 11.

Esser, R., and Withbroe, G. L. “Line of Sight Effects on Spectroscopic Measurements

146
in the Inner Solar Wind Region.” Journal of Geophysical Research 94 (1989):
6886.

Estes, R. D. “Ionospheric Wave Propagation From An Electrodynamic Tethered Satel-
lite System.” In Proceedings of the National Radio Science Meeting USNC/
URSI, p. 81. Boulder, Colorado: URSI, 1989.

. “Calculating the Electromagnetic Field on the Earth due to an Electrodynamic
Tethered System in the Ionosphere.” In Tethers in Space Toward Flight, p. 41.
Washington, D.C.: American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics, Inc.,
1989.

Fabbiano, G. “Low-Activity Nuclei in Spiral Galaxies.” In Active Galactic Nuclei, Pro-
ceedings of IAU Symposium No. 134, eds. D. E. Osterbrock and J. S. Miller, p.
517. Dordrecht, Holland: Kluwer Academic Publishers, 1989.

“X-Rays from Normal Galaxies.” Annual Review of Astronomy and Astro-
physics 27 (1989): 87.

Fabricant, D. “The Decaspec: A Fiber Optic Manipulator for Multi-Object Spec-
troscopy.” In Fiber Optics in Astronomy, Astronomical Society of the Pacific
Conference Series, ed. S. C. Barden, vol. 3, p. 170. San Francisco: Astronomical
Society of the Pacific, 1988.

Fabricant, D.; Kent, S. M., and Kurtz, M. J. “A Combined Optical/X-Ray Study of
the Galaxy Cluster Abell 2256.” Astrophysical Journal 336 (1989): 77.

Fegan, D. J.; Cawley, M. F.; Gibbs, K.; Lamb, R. C.; Lewis, D. A.; Porter, N. A.;
Reynolds, P. T.; Smyth, G.; and Weekes, T. C. “Search for a 12.59 ms Pulsar in
Cygnus X-3.” Astronomy and Astrophysics 211 (1989): Ll.

Feller, W. B.; Cook. L. M.; Fraser, G. W.; Pearson, J. F.; Murray, S. S.; and Garcia,
M. R. “Low Noise Microchannel Plates.” In Image Intensification, Proceedings of
SPIE, vol. 1072, ed. I. P. Csorba, p. 138. Bellingham, Washington: Society of
Photo-Optical Instrumentation Engineers, 1989.

Field, G. B. “Recent Developments in Cosmology.” In Niels Bohr: Physics and the
World, Proceedings of the Niels Bohr Centennial Symposium (American Acad-
emy of Arts and Sciences), eds. H. Feshback, T. Matsui, and A. Oleson, p.
157. New York: Harwood Academic Publishers, 1988.

Field, G. B., and Walker, T. P. “Radiative Decays of Massive Relic Particles and the
Submillimeter Background.” Physical Review Letters 63 (1989): 117.

Fireman, E. L. “Uranium Series Dating of Tephra-Banded Allan Hills Ice.” In
Proceedings of the 13th Symposium on Antarctic Meteorites, ed. K. Yanai, p.
1. Tokyo: National Institute of Polar Research, 1988.

. “Ice Chronology at Meteorite Stranding Sites, Antarctica.” Antarctic Journal
of the United States Annual Review Issue (1988): 75.

Fireman, E. L., and Beukens, R. P. “Carbon-14 Production by 155 Mev Protons in
Meteorites.” In Lunar and Planetary Science Conference XX, p. 291. Houston,
Texas: Lunar and Planetary Science Institute, 1989.

Fleming, T. A.; Gioia, I. M.; and Maccacaro, T. “The Relation between X-Ray Emission
and Rotation in Late-Type Stars from the Perspective of X-Ray Selection.”
Astrophysical Journal 340 (1989): 1011.

. “X-Ray Selected Candidates for the RS CVn and W UMa Classes of Binary

Stars.” Astronomical Journal 98 (1989): 692.

147
Franklin, F. A.; Lecar, M.; and Soper, P. “Note on the Original Distribution of the
Asteroids.” Icarus 79 (1989): -223.

Garay, G.; Moran, J. M.; and Haschick, A. D. “The Orion-KL Super Water Maser.”
Astrophysical Journal 338 (1989): 244.

Garcia, M. R.; Bailyn, C. D.; Grindlay, J. E.; and Molnar, L. A. “Is 4U2129+47 (=
V1727 Cygnus) a Triple System?” Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 341 (1989):
L75.

Garcia, M. R.; Chappell, J. H.; Murray, S. S.; Feller, W. B.; and Fraser, G. W. “Low
Noise Microchannel Plate Detectors for X-Ray Astronomy.” In X-Ray Instru-
mentation in Medicine and Biology, Plasma Physics, Astrophysics, and Syn-
chrotron Radiation, Proceedings of SPIE, vol. 1140, ed. R. Denattar, p. 101.
Bellingham, Washington: Society of Photo-Optical Instrumentation Engineers,
1989.

Gardner, L. D.; Kohl, J. L.; Savin, D. W.; and Young, A. R. “Experiment on Electron
Impact Excitation and Dielectronic Recombination at Harvard-Smithsonian.”
Journal de Physique 50 (1989): C1-405.

Gavazzi, G., and Trinchieri, G. “Near-Infrared Observations of Galaxies in the Coma
Supercluster.” Astrophysical Journal 342 (1989): 718.

Geller, M. “Mapping the Universe: Redshifts and Standard Candles.” In Bubbles,
Voids, and Bumps in Time: The New Cosmology, ed. J. Cornell, p. 50.
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1989.

Geller, M. J., and Huchra, J. P. “Galaxy and Cluster Redshift Surveys.” In
Large Scale Motions in the Universe, eds. V. Rubin and G. Coyne, p. 3.
Princeton: Princeton University, 1989.

Gingerich, O. “Sacrobosco as a Textbook.” Journal for the History of Astronomy 19
(1988): 269.

. “Introduction to John Bevis.” In Atlas Celeste. Norfolk, England: Archival

Facsimiles, Ltd., 1987.

. “J. L. E. Dreyer and His NGC.” Sky and Telescope 76 (1988): 621.

. “A Scholarly Partnership with the Book Trade.” AB Bookman’s Weekly 82

(1988): 2447.

. “Reflections on the Role of Archaeoastronomy in the History of Astronomy.” In
World Archaeoastronomy, Proceedings of Second Oxford Conference on Ar-
chaeoastronomy, ed. A. F. Aveni, p. 38. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press, 1989.

Gioia, I. M.; Maccacaro, T.; Morris, S. L.; Schild, R. E.; Stocke, J. T.; and
Wolter, A. “X-Ray Selected AGN from the Extended Medium Sensitivity Survey.”
In Active Galactic Nuclei, Proceedings of IAU Symposium No. 134, eds. D. E.
Osterbrock and J. S. Miller, p. 203. Dordrecht, Holland: Kluwer Academic
Publishers, 1989.

Golub, L., and Herant, M. “Analysis of the 23 June 1988 Flare Using Normal Incidence
X-Ray Telescope Multilayer X-Ray Images.” In X-Ray/EUV Optics for Astron-
omy and Microscopy, Proceedings of SPIE, vol. 1160, ed. R. B. Hoover, p. 629.
Bellingham, Washington: Society of Photo-Optical Instrumentation Engineers,
1989.

Goodman, A. A.; Crutcher, R. M.; Heiles, C.; Myers, P. C.; and Troland, T. H.

148
“Measurement of Magnetic Field Strength in the Dark Cloud Barnard 1.”
Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 338 (1989): L61.

Goodman, A. A., and Myers, P. C. “Magnetic and Virial Equilibrium in Molecular
Clouds.” In Molecular Clouds in the Milky Way and External Galaxies, Lecture
Notes in Physics No. 315, eds. R. Dickman, R. L. Snell, and J. S. Young, p. 128.
Berlin: Springer-Verlag Publishing Company, 1989.

Goodman, A. A.; Myers, P. C.; Crutcher, R. M.; Heiles, C.; Kazés, I.; and Troland,
T. H. “Measurement of the Magnetic Field in the Molecular Cloud Bl.” In The
Physics and Chemistry of Interstellar Molecular Clouds, Lecture Notes in Phys-
ics No. 331, eds. G. Winnewisser and J. T. Armstrong, p. 182. Berlin: Springer-
Verlag Publishing Company, 1989.

Gorenstein, M. V.; Cohen, N. L.; Shapiro, I. I.; Rogers, A. E E.; Bonometti, R. J.; Falco,
E. E.; Bartel, N.; and Marcaide, J. M. “VLBI Observations of the Gravitational
Lens System 0957+561: Structure and Relative Magnification of the A and B
Images.” Astrophysical Journal 334 (1988): 42.

Gottlieb, C. A.; Vrtilek, J. M.; and Thaddeus, P. “Laboratory Measurement of the
Rotational Spectrum of SiCC.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 343 (1989): L29.

Graessle, D. E.; Prager, S. C.; and Dexter, R. N. “Tokamak Magnetic Turbulence Over
the Safety-Factor Range 0.6 j; q ; 3.” Physical Review Letters 62 (1989): 535.

Green, D. W. E. (editor). International Comet Quarterly 10 (1988).

. (editor). International Comet Quarterly 11 (1989).

Grindlay, J.; Bailyn, C.; Mathieu, R. D.; and Latham, D. W. “Radial Velocity Study of
NGC 6712.” In Globular Cluster Systems in Galaxies, Proceedings of IAU Sym-
posium No. 126, eds. J. E. Grindlay and A. G. D. Philip, p. 659. Dordrecht,
Holland: Kluwer Academic Publishers, 1988.

Grossi, M. D. “Computer-Aided Data Acquisition System for Experiments on the
Detectability of Weakly-Interacting Particles.” In Proceedings of the National
Radio Science Meeting USNC/URSI, p. 99. Boulder, Colorado: URSI, 1989.

. “Spaceborne Tethers as High-Power Orbiting Radiators of E.M. Waves from

ULF to VLF.” In Proceedings of the National Radio Science Meeting USNC/

URSI, p. 82. Boulder, Colorado: URSI, 1989.

“A New Class of Large-Size, Spaceborne Antennas Based on Tether Tech-

nology.” In NSF Workshop on Future Directions in Electromagnetic Research,

Progress In Electromagnetic Research Symposium (PIERS), p. 330. Cambridge,
Massachusetts: PIERS Office, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 1989.

Grossi, M. D., and Lorenzini, E. C. “One-Dimensional Tethers and Two-Dimensional
Tethered Structures as Spaceborne Antennas for Radio Communications in the
Bands ULF-to-VLF.” In Proceedings of the 27th Aerospace Sciences Meeting,
paper AIAA 89-0676. Washington, D.C.: American Institute of Aeronautics
and Astronautics, Inc., 1989.

Gullahorn, G. E. “Spatial Density Variations in the Lower Thermosphere from Tethered

Satellite Drag.” EOS, Transactions, American Geophysical Union 69 (1988):
1345.

“Atmospheric Density Variations via Tethered Satellite Drag.” In
Tethers in Space Toward Flight, p. 130. Washington, DC: American Institute
of Aeronautics and Astronautics, Inc., 1989.

Guth, A. H. “Starting the Universe: The Big Bang and Cosmic Inflation.” In
Bubbles, Voids, and Bumps in Time: The New Cosmology, ed. J. Cornell, p.
105. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1989. Also published as “The
Birth of the Cosmos.* In Origins and Extinctions, eds. D. E. Osterbrock and
P. H. Raven, p. 1. New Haven: Yale University Press, 1988.

Guth, A. H., and Steinhardt, P. J. “The Inflationary Universe.” In The New Physics,
ed. P. Davies, p. 34. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1989.

Gwinn, C. R.; Cordes, J. M.; Bartel, N.; Wolszczan, A.; and Mutel, R. L. “VLBI
Observations of a Pulsar’s Scattering Disk.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 334
(1988): L13.

“VLBI Observations of the Scattering Disk of Pulsar 1933+16.” In
Radio Wave Scattering in the Interstellar Medium, eds. J. M. Cordes, B. J.
Rickett, and D. C. Backer, p. 129. New York: American Institute of Physics,
1988.

Gwinn, C. R.; Moran, J. M.; and Reid, M. J. “Interstellar Scattering of Radiation from
H»)O Masers in W49 and Sgr B2.” In Radio Wave Scattering in the Interstellar
Medium, eds. J. M. Cordes, B. J. Rickett, and D. C. Backer, p. 106. New York:
American Institute of Physics, 1988.

Gwinn, C. R.; Moran, J. M.; Reid, M. J.; Schneps, M. H.; Genzel, R.; and Downes,
D. “Proper Motions of Hj>O Masers in W49(N) and the Distance to the Galactic
Center.” In The Center of the Galaxy, Proceedings of IAU Symposium No. 136,
ed. M. Morris, p. 47. Dordrecht, Holland: Kluwer Academic Publishers, 1989.

Habbal, S. R.; Ellman, N. E.; and Gonzalez, R. “Synthesis Mapping of a Solar
Type I Storm Simultaneously at 90 and 20 Centimeters with the VLA.”
Astrophysical Journal 342 (1989): 594.

Harmon, J. K.; Campbell, D. B.; Hine, A. A.; Shapiro, I. I.; and Marsden, B. G. “Radar
Observations of Comet IRAS-Araki-Alcock (1983d).” Astrophysical Journal 338
(1989): 1071.

Harnden, F. R., Jr., and Seward, F. D. “The X-Ray Environment of the Precursor of
SN1987A.” In Supernova 1987A in the Large Magellani¢ Cloud, Proceedings of
the Fourth George Mason Astrophysics Workshop, eds. M. Kafatos and A. G.
Michalitsianos, p. 408. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1988.

Harris, D. E. “Bremsstrahlung from Radio Source Electrons.” In Proceedings of the
Gamma Ray Observatory Science Workshop, ed. W. Neil Johnson, p. 4.
Greenbelt, Maryland: Goddard Space Flight Center, 1989.

Hartigan, P. “The Visibility of the Mach Disk and the Bow Shock of a Stellar Jet.”
Astrophysical Journal 339 (1989): 987.

Hartmann, L., and Kenyon, S. J. “Accretion Disks Around Young Stars.” In
Formation and Evolution of Low-Mass Stars, eds. A. K. Dupree and M. T. V. T.
Lago, p. 163. Dordrecht, Holland: Kluwer Academic Publishers, 1988.

Hartmann, L.; Kenyon, S. J.; Hewett, R.; Edwards, S.; Strom, K. M.; Strom, S. E.;
and Stauffer, J. R. “Pre-Main Sequence Disk Accretion in Z Canis Majoris.”
Astrophysical Journal 338 (1989): 1001.

Hartmann, L., and Raymond, J. C. “Wind-Disk Shocks Around T Tauri Stars.”
Astrophysical Journal 337 (1989): 903.

Hartmann, L., and Stauffer, J. R. “Additional Measurements of Pre-Main Sequence

150
Rotation.” Astronomical Journal 97 (1989): 873.

Ho, P. T. P.; Turner, J. L.; Fazio, G. G.; and Willner, S. P. “Excess 10-1m Emission
in Extragalactic Nuclei.” Astrophysical Journal 344 (1989): 135.

Huchra, J. P. “On Infall Into the Virgo Cluster.” In The Extragalactic Distance Scale,
eds. S. van den Bergh and C. J. Pritchet, p. 257. Provo, Utah: Astronomical
Society of the Pacific, 1989.

“Redshift Surveys and the Description of Clustering in the Universe.” In
Large Scale Structure and Its Relation to Clusters of Galaxies, ed. J. Dickey, p
41. Provo, Utah: Astronomical Society of the Pacific, 1989.

Hughes, J. P. “The Mass of the Coma Cluster: Combined X-Ray and Optical Results.”
Astrophysical Journal 337 (1988): 21.

Hughes, J. P.; Schwartz, D. A.; Worrall, D. M.; and Zombeck, M. V. ”Derivation of
Requirements for Calibrating the Advanced X-Ray Astrophysics Facility (AXAF)
Telescope.” In X-Ray Instrumentation in Astronomy IJ, Proceedings of SPIE,
vol. 982, ed. L. Golub, p. 380. Bellingham, Washington: Society of Photo-
Optical Instrumentation Engineers, 1988.

Ito, K.; Ueda, K.; Namioka, T.; Yoshino, K.; and Morioka, Y. “High-Resolution Absorp-
tion Spectrum of Ne I in the Region of 565-595 A.” Journal of the Optical Society
of America B 5 (1988): 2006.

Jaye, D.; Tresch-Fienberg, R.; Fazio, G. G.; Gezari, D. Y.; Hoffmann, W. F.; Lamb,
G. M.; Shu, P. K.; and McCreight, C. R. “Images of the 10-Micron Source in the
Cygnus Egg.” Astronomical Journal 97 (1989): 809.

Jones, R. V.; Carney, B. W.; and Latham, D. W. “The Baade-Wesselink Method and
the Distances to RR Lyrae Stars. VI. The Field Stars RS Bootis, TW Herculis,
VY Serpentis, and UU Virginis, and the Absolute Magnitudes of RR Lyrae Stars.”
Astrophysical Journal 332 (1988): 206.

Kalkofen, W.; Bodo, G.; Massaglia, S.; and Rossi, P. “2D Flux Tube in Radiative
Equilibrium.” In Solar and Stellar Granulation, eds. R. J. Rutten and G.
Severino, p. 571. Dordrecht, Holland: Kluwer Academic Publishers, 1989.

Kallman, T.; Krolik, J.; and Wilkes, B. “Quasar Emission Line Profile Modelling.”
In Active Galactic Nuclei, Proceedings of IAU Symposium No. 134, eds. D. E.
Osterbrock and J. S. Miller, p. 131. Dordrecht, Holland: Kluwer Academic
Publishers, 1989.

Karovska, M.; Koechlin, L.; Nisenson, P.; Papaliolios, C.; and Standley, C. “Evidence
for Asymmetries in SN 1987A.” In Highlights in Astronomy, ed. W. Liller, vol.
8, p. 352. Dordrecht, Holland: Kluwer Academic Publishers, 1989.

“Measurements of the Diameter of the LMC Supernova SN1987A.”
eases Journal 340 (1989): 435.

Kent, S. M., and Falco, E. E. “A Model for the Gravitational Lens System 2237+0305.”
Astrophysical Journal 96 (1988): 1570.

Kenyon, S. J. “The Cool Components of Symbiotic Stars II. Infrared Photometry.”
Astronomical Journal 96 (1989): 337.

Kenyon, S. J., and Garcia, M. R. “Spectroscopic Orbits II]. TX Cvn.” Astronomical
Journal 97 (1989): 194.

Kenyon, S. J., and Hartmann, L. “High Resolution Infrared Spectra of FU Orionis
Variables: Keplerian Rotation and Mass Loss.” Astrophysical Journal 342 (1989):

1134.

Kenyon, S. J.; Hartmann, L.; Imhoff, C. L.; and Cassatella, A. “Ultraviolet
Spectroscopy of Pre-Main Sequence Accretion Disks.” Astrophysical Journal 344
(1989): 925.

Kim, D.-W.; Gahathakurta, P.; van Gorkom, J. H.; Jura, M.; and Knapp, G. R.
“HI Observations of the Elliptical Galaxies NGC 2974 and NGC 5018.”
Astrophysical Journal 330 (1988): 684.

Kirby, K., and Cooper, D. L. “Theoretical Study of Low-Lying 15+ and !II States of
CO. I. Transition Dipole Moments, Oscillator Strengths and Radiative Lifetime.”
Journal of Chemical Physics 90 (1989): 4895.

Kirby, K., and van Dishoeck, E. F. “Photodissociation Processes in Diatomic Molecules
of Astrophysical Interest.” Advances in Atomic and Molecular Physics 25 (1988):
437.

Knapp, G. R.; Sutin, B. M.; Phillips, T. G.; Ellison, B. N.; Keene, J. B.; Leighton,
R. B.; Masson, C. R.; Steiger, W.; Veidt, B.; and Young, K. “CO Emission from
Evolved Stars and Protoplanetary Nebulae.” Astrophysical Journal 336 (1989):
822.

Koch, D. G.; Melnick, G. J.; Fazio, G. G.; Rieke, G. H.; Low, F. J.; Hoffmann, W.;
Young, E. T.; Urban, E. W.; Simpson, J. P.; Witteborn, F. C.; Gautier, T. N.,
III; and Poteet, W. “Overview of Measurements from the Infrared Telescope on
Spacelab-2.” Astrophysical Letters and Communications 27 (1988): 211.

Kohl, J. L.; Noci, G.; Hartmann, L. W.; Raymond, J. C.; van Ballegooijen, A. A.;
Weiser, H.; Withbroe, G. L.; Antonnuci, E.; Geiss, J.; Gloeckler, G.; Hollweg,
J. V.; Huber, M. C. E.; Livi, S.; Rosner, R.; and Tondello, G. “‘UVCS’ —- An Ultra-
violet Coronograph Spectrometer for SOHO.” In The SOHO Mission — Scientific
and Technical Aspects of the Instruments, European Space Agency Special
Publication 1104. Paris: European Space Agency, 1989.

Kozai, Y.; Marsden, B. G.; Roemer, E.; Arlot, Y.; and Millis, R. “IAU Commission
20.” In Reports on Astronomy, vol. XXA, ed. J.-P. Swings, p. 195. Dordrecht,
Holland: Kluwer Academic Publishers, 1988.

Krolik, J. H., and Raymond, J. C. “Measuring Hp and qg with X-Ray Lines from
Galaxy Clusters.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 335 (1989): L39.

Kwok, P. W.; Cawley, M. F.; Fegan, D. J.; Gibbs, K. G.; Hillas, A. M.; Lamb, R. C.;
Lewis, D. A.; Macomb, D.; Porter, N. A.; Reynolds, P. T.; Vacanti, G.; and
Weekes, T. C. “Observation of TeV Gamma-Rays from the Crab Nebula.” In
Cosmic Gamma Rays, Neutrinos and Related Astrophysics, Proceedings
of the NATO Advanced Study Institute, eds. M. M. Shapiro and J. P. Wefel,
vol. 270, p. 245. Dordrecht, Holland: Kluwer Academic Publishers, 1989.

. “Observation of TeV Gamma Rays from the Crab Nebula and PSR0531.”
In Timing Neutron Stars, Proceedings of the NATO Advanced Study Institute,
eds. H. Ogelman and E. P. J. van der Heuvel, vol. 262, p. 375. Dordrecht,
Holland: Kluwer Academic Publishers, 1989.

Lacasse, M. G., and Traub, W. A. “Glass Compensation for an Air Filled Delay Line.”
In Proceedings of the NOAO-ESO Conference on High-Resolution Imaging

by Interferometry, ESO Conference and Workshop Proceedings No. 29, ed. F.
Merkle, p. 959. Garching bei Munchen, FRG: European Southern Observatory,

152
1989.

Lacey, C. G. “Gravitational Instability in a Primordial Collapsing Gas Cloud.”
Astrophysical Journal 336 (1989): 612.

Laird, J. B.; Rupen, M. P.; Carney, B. W.; and Latham, D. W. “The Halo Metallicity
Distribution Function.” In The Abundance Spread Within Globular Clusters:
Spectroscopy of Individual Stars, eds. G. Cayrel de Strobel, M. Spite, and T.
Lloyd Evans, p. 37. Paris: Observatoire de Paris, 1989.

“A Survey of Proper-Motion Stars. VII. The Halo Metallicity Distribution
Function.” Astronomical Journal 96 (1988): 1908.

Latham, D. W.; Mazeh, T.; Carney, B. W.; McCrosky,.R. E.; Stefanik, R. P.; and
Davis, R. J. “New Orbital Solutions for Spectroscopic Binaries in the Halo
and the Prospects for a New Determination of the Age of the Galaxy.” In
Calibration of Stellar Ages, ed. A. G. Davis Philip, p. 185. Schenectady, New
York: L. Davis Press, 1988.

Latham, D. W.; Mazeh, T.; Stefanik, R. P.; Mayor, M.; and Burki, G. “The Unseen
Companion of HD114762: A Probable Brown Dwarf.” Nature 339 (1989): 38.

Laughlin, C., and Victor, G. A. “Model-Potential Methods.” Advances in Atomic and
Molecular Physics 25 (1988): 163.

Lazaref, B.; Castets, A.; Kim, D.-W.; and Jura, M. “Discovery of CO Emission from
NGC 1275.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 336 (1989): L13.

Lee, C. W.; Mathieu, R. D.; and Latham, D. W. “Two Spectroscopic Binaries in the
Open Cluster M11 and Their Implication for the Cluster Distance Modulus.”
Astronomical Journal 97 (1989): 1710.

Lepp, S., and Dalgarno, A. “Heating of Interstellar Gas by Large Molecules or Small
Grains.” Astrophysical Journal 335 (1988): 769.

Lightman, A. P. “Discovering the Universe: An Introduction.” In Bubbles, Voids,
and Bumps in Time: The New Cosmology, ed. J. Cornell, p. 1. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press, 1989.

Lightman, A. P., and Press, W. H. “Surfaces of Constant Redshift in an Inflationary
Universe.” Astrophysical Journal 337 (1989): 598.

Leisawitz, D.; Thaddeus, P.; and Bash, F. “A CO Survey of Regions around 34 Open
Clusters.” Astrophysical Journal Supplement 342 (1989): 1214.

Lindstrom, M. M.; Marvin, U. B.; Holmberg, B. B.; and Mittlefehldt, D. W.
“Geochemistry and Petrology of Recrystallized Gabbroic Breccias from the Apollo
15 Site.” In Lunar and Planetary Science XX, p. 576. Houston, Texas: Lunar
and Planetary Institute, 1989.

Lindstrom, M. M.; Marvin, U. B.; and Mittlefehldt, D. W. “Apollo 15 Mg-
and Fe-Norites: A Redefinition of the Mg-Suite Differentiation Trend.”
In Proceedings of the 19th Lunar and Planetary Science Conference, p. 245.
Houston, Texas: Lunar and Planetary Institute, 1989.

Lorenzini, E. C. “Novel Tether-Connected Two-Dimensional Structures for Low Earth
Orbits.” Journal of the Astronautical Sciences 36(4) (1988): 389.

Lorenzini, E. C.; Cosmo, M.; Vetrella, S.; and Moccia, A. “Dynamics and Control of the
Tether Elevator/Crawler System.” Journal of Guidance, Control, and Dynamics
12(3) (1989): 404.

Lorenzini, E. C.; Grossi, M. D.; and Cosmo, M. “Low Altitude Tethered Mars Probe.”

In Proceedings of the 39th Congress of the International Astronautical Federa-
tion, paper IAF 88-400. Washington, DC: American Institute of Aeronautics
and Astronautics, Inc., 1988.

Low, F.; Cutri, R.; Kleinmann, S.; and Huchra, J. “The Properties of Infrared Color
Selected Quasars.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 340 (1989): L1.

Maccacaro, T.; Gioia, I. M.; Morris, S. L.; Schild, R. E.; Stocke, J. T.; and Wolter, A.
“BL Lac Objects from the Einstein Extended Medium Sensitivity Survey: Their
Surface Density.” In Proceedings of the Meeting on BL Lac Objects: 10 Years
After, eds. L. Maraschi, T. Maccacaro, and M.-H. Urlich, p. 222. Berlin:
Springer-Verlag Publishing Company, 1989.

Maccagni, D.; Garilli, B.; Gioia, I. M.; Maccacaro, T.; Vettolani, G.; and Wolter, A. “A
Red Envelope around a Dominant Elliptical Galaxy in an X-Ray Selected Poor
Cluster.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 334 (1989): L1.

Magri, C.; Haynes, M. P.; Forman, W.; Jones, C.; and Giovanelli, R. “The Pattern of
Gas Deficiency in Cluster Spirals: The Correlation of H 1 and X-Ray Properties.”
Astrophysical Journal 333 (1988): 136.

Maia, M. A. G.; da Costa, L. N.; and Latham, D. W. “A Catalog of Southern Groups
of Galaxies.” Astronomical Journal Supplement 69 (1989): 809.

Maraschi, L.; Maccacaro, T.; and Urlich, M.-H. (editors). Proceedings of the Meet-
ing on BL Lac Objects: 10 Years After. Berlin: Springer-Verlag Publishing
Company, 1989.

Marsden, B. G. “What Amateurs Should Be Doing.” Sky and Telescope 76 (1988):
462.

. “Amateur Astronomers and the JAU Central Bureau for Astronomical Tele-

grams and Minor Planet Center.” In Stargazers, Proceedings of IAU Colloquium

No. 98, eds. S. Dunlop and M. Gerbaldi, p. 64. New York: Springer-Verlag Pub-

lishing Company, 1988.

“Observations — Concluding Remarks.” In Stargazers, Proceedings of IAU

Colloquium No. 98, eds. S. Dunlop and M. Gerbaldi, p. 225. New York:

Springer-Verlag Publishing Company, 1988.

. (editor). Minor Planet Circulars Nos. 13635-14072, 1988.

. (editor). Minor Planet Circulars Nos. 14073-15120, 1989.

Marsden, B. G., and Green, D. W. E. (editors). International Astronomical Union Cir-
culars Nos. 4658-4696, 1988.

. (editors). International Astronomical Union Circulars Nos. 4697-4868, 1989.

Martens, P. C. H., and Kuin, N. P. M. “A Circuit Model for Filament Observations
and Two-Ribbon Flares.” Solar Physics 122 (1989): 136.

Martens, P. C. H., and Young, A. “Proton Acceleration in Solar Flares and in the
Geomagnetic Tail: A Comparison.” In Nonlinear Effects in Vlasov Plasmas, ed.
F. Doveil, p. 381. Les Ulis Cedex, France: Editions de Physique, 1989.

Marvin, U. B. “Impact, and Its Implications for Geology” (abstract). Conference on
Global Catastrophes, Volcanism, and Mass Mortality, LPI Contributions, vol.
673, p. 115. Houston, Texas: Lunar and Planetary Institute, 1988.

“Meteorite Distributions at the Allan Hills Main Icefield and the Pairing

Problem.” In Smithsonian Contributions to the Earth Sciences, eds. U. B.

Marvin and G. J. MacPherson, vol. 28, p. 113. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian

154
Institution Press, 1989.

“Meteorite Impact and Its Consequences for Geology.” (abstract). In Pro
ceedings of 28th International Geological Congress, vol. 2, p. 381. Washington,
D.C.: International Geological Congress, 1989.

Marvin, U. B.; Carey, J. W.; and Lindstrom, M. M. “Cordierite-Spinel Troctolite, a
New Mg-Rich Lithology from the Lunar Highlands.” Science 243 (1989): 925.

Marvin, U. B.; Kring, D. A.; and Boulger, J. D., Jr. “Petrography of Impactite from
New Quebec Crater.” Meteoritics 23 (1989): 287.

Marvin, U. B., and MacPherson, G. J. (editors). Field and Laboratory Investigations
of Meteorites from Victoria Land and the Thiel Mountains Region, Antarctica.
Smithsonian Contributions to the Earth Sciences, vol. 28. Washington, D.C.:
Smithsonian Press, 1989.

Massaglia, S.; Bodo, G.; Kalkofen, W.; and Rosner, R. “The Equilibrium Structure
of a Thin Magnetic Flux Tube. III. The Effect of Molecular CO Absorption.”
Astrophysical Journal 333 (1988): 925.

Masson, C. R. “The Structures of NGC 7027 and a Determination of its Distance by
Measurement of Proper Motions.” Astrophysical Journal 336 (1989): 294.

“The Structures of and Distances to BD+30°3639 and NGC 6572.”
Astrophysical Journal 336 (1989): 294.

Mathieu, R. D.; Walter, F. M.; and Myers, P. C. “The Discovery of Six Pre-Main-
Sequence Spectroscopic Binaries.” Astronomical Journal 98 (1989): 987.

Mattison, E. M. “Ultra-Stable Clocks for Use in Space.” Advances in Space Research
9(9) (1989): 13.

Mattison, E. M., and Coyle, L. M. “Phase Noise in Direct Digital Synthesizers.” In
Proceedings of the 42nd Annual Symposium on Frequency Control, IEEE Cata-
logue No. 88CH2588-2, p. 352. New York: Institute of Electrical and Electronics
Engineers, 1988.

Mattison, E. M., and Vessot, R. F. C. “Time and Temperature Stability of Silver-
Coated Ceramics for Hydrogen Maser Resonant Cavities.” In Proceedings of the
20th Annual Precise Time and Time Interval Applications and Planning Meet-
ing, p. 313. Washington, D.C.: U.S. Naval Observatory, 1988.

Mauche, C., and Gorenstein, P. “X-Ray Halos around Supernova Remnants.”
Astrophysical Journal 336 (1989): 843.

Mauche, C. W.; Raymond, J. C.; and Cordova, F. A. “Interstellar Absorption Lines in
High Resolution IUE Spectra of Cataclysmic Variables.” Astrophysical Journal
335 (1989): 829.

McClintock, J. E. “Transient X-Ray Sources with Late-Type Companions.” In
Timing Neutron Stars, eds. H. Ogelman and E. P. J. van den Heuvel, p. 209.
Dordrecht, Holland: Kluwer Academic Publishers, 1989.

McIntosh, G. C.; Predmore, C. R.; Moran, J. M.; Greenhill, L. J.; Rogers, A. E. E.;
and Barvainis, R. “VLBI and Polarimetric Observations of the SiO Masers in
R Cassiopeia.” Astrophysical Journal 337 (1989): 934.

Melnick, G. J. “Observations of Atomic Species in Dense Clouds.” In Molecular Astro |
physics, ed. T. W. Hartquist, p. 273. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press,
1989,

Melnick, G. J.; Koch, D. G.; Fazio, G. G.; Rieke, G. H.; Low, F. J.; Hoffmann, W.;

Young, E. T.; Urban, E. W.; Simpson, J. P.; Witteborn, F. C.; Gautier, T. N.,
II; and Poteet; W. “Overview of Measurements from the Infrared Telescope on
Spacelab-2.” Astrophysical Letters and Communications 27 (no. 3) (1988): 211.

Menten, K. M., and Batrla, W. “Observations of Various Methanol Maser Transitions
towards the NGC6334 Region.” Astrophysical Journal 341 (1989): 839.

Menten, K. M., and Melnick, G. J. “Hot Water Around Late-Type Stars: Detection of
Two MM-Wave Lines from the v» Vibrationally Excited State.” Astrophysical

Journal (Letters) 341 (1989): L91.

Menten, K. M.; Reid, M. J.; Moran, J. M.; Wilson, T. L.; Rohneteny K. J.; and Batrla,
W. “VLBI Oneewanene of 12 Gigshents Methanol Masers.? Antrophysical Jour-
nal (Letters) 333 (1988): L83.

Menten, K. M.; Walmsley, C. M.; Wilson, T. L.; and Henkel, C. “Interstellar Methanol
towards Galactic HII Regions.” In Molecular Clouds in the Milky Way and Ex-
ternal Galaxies, Lecture Notes in Physics No. 315, eds. R. Dickman, R. L. Snell,
and J. S. Young, p. 261. Berlin: Springer-Verlag Publishing Company, 1989.

Michel, A., and Huchra, J. “Redshifts of Galaxies in the Winter Plane.” Publications of
the Astronomical Society of the Pacific 100 (1988): 1423.

Moran, J. M. “Imaging with Very Long Baseline Interferometry.” In Highlights of
Astronomy, Proceedings of the IAU 20th General Assembly, ed. D. McNally, p
553. Dordrecht, Holland: Kluwer Academic Publishers, 1989.

. “Introduction to VLBI” In Techniques and Applications of Very Long Base-

line Interferometry, eds. M. Felli and R. E. Spencer, p. 27. Dordrecht, Holland:

Kluwer Academic Publishers, 1989.

“The Effects of Propagation on VLBI Observations.” In Techniques and

Applications of Very Long Baseline Interferometry, eds. M. Felli and R. E.

Spencer, p. 47. Dordrecht, Holland: Kluwer Academic Publishers, 1989.

“Water Vapor Masers and the Cosmic Distance Scale.” In Newsletter of the

Astronomical Society of New York, Vol. III, No. 6, ed. A. G. Davis Philip, p. 9.

Schnectady, New York: L. Davis Press, Inc., 1989.

. “Masers in the Envelopes of Young and Old Stars.” In Molecular Astrophysics,
ed. T. Hartquist, p. 397. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1989.

Moran, J. M.; Hewitt, J. N.; and Lo, K. Y. (editors). Gravitational Lenses. Berlin:
Springer-Verlag Publishing Company, 238 pages, 1989.

Mrkos, A., and Marsden, B. G. “IAU Commission 6.” In Reports on Astronomy, vol.
XXA, ed. J.-P. Swings, p. 13. Dordrecht, Holland: Kluwer Academic Publishers,
1988.

Murray, S.S., and Chappell, J. H. “Advanced X-Ray Astrophysics Facility High Resolu-
tion Camera.” In X-Ray Instrumentation in Astronomy IJ, Proceedings of SPIE,
vol. 1160, ed. L. Golub, p. 48. Bellingham, Washington: Society of Photo-
Optical Instrumentation Engineers, 1988.

Myers, P.C. “Molecular Cloud Structure, Motions, and Evolution.” In Molecular Astro-
physics, ed. T. Hartquist, p. 328. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1989.

. “Physical Conditions in Dark Clouds.” In The Physics and Chemistry of

Interstellar Molecular Clouds, Lecture Notes in Physics No. 331, eds. G. Winne- ~

wisser and J. T. Armstrong, p. 38. Berlin: Springer-Verlag Publishing Company,

1989.

156
Nesci, R.; Gioia, I. M.; Maccacaro, T.; Morris, S. L.; Perola, G. C.; Schild, R. E.;
and Wolter, A. “A Cooling Flow in a High Redshift X-Ray Selected Cluster of
Galaxies.” Astrophysical Journal 344 (1989): 104.

Nesci, R.; Perola, G. C.; Gioia, I. M.; Maccacaro, T.; Schild, R. E.; and Wolter, A.
“A Distant X-Ray Selected Cluster with a Cooling Flow: 1E0839.9+2938.” In
Proceedings of the International Conference on Large-Scale Structures
and Motions in the Universe, eds. M. Mezzetti, G. Giuricin, F. Madirossian and
M. Ramella, p. 413. Dordrecht, Holland: Kluwer Academic Publishers, 1989.

Neufeld, D. A., and Dalgarno, A. “Fast Molecular Shocks I. Reformation of Molecules
behind a Dissociative Shock.” Astrophysical Journal 340 (1989): 869.

Nisenson, P. “The Knox-Thompson Method.” In European Space Observatory Con-
ference on High Resolution Imaging by Interferometry, Proceedings of the
National Optical Astronomy Observatories, ed. F. Meukle, p. 491. Garching
bei Munchen: European Southern Observatory, 1988.

. “Speckle Imaging with PAPA Detector and the Knox-Thompson Algorithm.”

In Diffraction-Limited Imaging with Very Large Telescopes, Proceedings of a

NATO Advanced Study Institute, eds. D. M. Alloim and J.-M. Mariotti, p. 157.

Dordrecht, Holland: Kluwer Academic Publishers, 1989.

. “Knox-Thompson Imaging at Low Light Levels.” In Quantum Limited Imag-
ing and Information Processing, Technical Digest Series, vol. 13, p. 48. Wash-
ington, D.C.: Optical Society of America, 1989.

Noci, G., and Kohl, J. L. “Il Coronografo Spettrometro Ultravioletto per la Missione
Spaziale SOHO.” Atti della Fondazione Giorgio Ronchi 1 (1989): 353.

Noyes, R. W. “The Sun.” In The New Solar System, revised, ed. K. Beatty, p. 25.
Cambridge, Massachusetts: Sky Publishing Company, 1989.

. “The Sun.” In The World Book Encyclopedia, vol. 18 p. 974. Chicago,
Illinois: World Book Inc., 1989.

Nyman, L.-A.; Bronfman, L.; and Thaddeus, P. “A CO Survey of the Southern
Coalsack.” Astronomy and Astrophysics 216 (1989): 185.

Okumura, Y.; Tsunemi, H.; Yamashita, K.; Matsuoka, M.; Koyama, K.; Hayakawa,
S.; Masai, K.; and Hughes, J. P. “TENMA Observations of the X-Ray Spectra
of the Coma, Ophiuchus, and Perseus Clusters of Galaxies.” Publications of the
Astronomical Society of Japan 40 (1988): 639.

Olano, C. A.; Harju, J.; Menten, K. M.; and Walmsley, C. M. “The Immediate Sur-
roundings of B335-IR and L1551-IRS5.” Astronomische Gesellschaft Abstract
Series 1 (1988): 32.

Ostriker, E. C.; Huchra, J. P.; Geller, M. J.; and Kurtz, M. J. “The Kinematics and
Dynamics of the Rich Cluster of Galaxies Abell 539.” Astronomical Journal 96
(1988): 1775.

Owocki, S. P.; Castor, J. I.; and Rybicki, G. B. “Time-Dependent Models of
Radiatively Driven Stellar Winds. I. Nonlinear Evolution of Instabilities for a
Pure Absorption Model.” Astrophysical Journal 335 (1988): 914.

Padin, S.; Sargent, A. I.; Mundy, L. G.; Scoville, N. Z.; Woody, D. P.; Leighton, R. B.;
Masson, C. R.; Scott, S. L.; Seling, T. V.; Staplefeldt, K. R.; and Terebey, S.
“Interferometric C!8O Observations of DR21(OH) and L1551-IRS5 at \ = 1.4

Millimeters.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 337 (1989): L45.

Papaliolios, C.; Karovska, M.; Koechlin, L.; Nisenson, P.; Standley, C.; and Heathcote,
S. “Asymmetry of the Envelope of SN1987A.” Nature 338 (1989): 565.

Pasquini, L.; Schmitt, J. H. M. M.; Harnden, F. R., Jr.; Tozzi, G. P.; and Krautter,
J. “X-Ray and Optical Observations of LDS 587.” Astronomy and Astrophysics
218 (1989): 187.

Peres, G.; Reale, F.; Collura, A.; and Fabbiano, G. “Time Variability of the X-Ray
Sources in M33.” Astrophysical Journal 336 (1989): 140.

Peterson, R. “The Mass-to-Light Ratios of Extragalactic Globular Clusters.” In
Dynamics of Dense Stellar Systems, ed. D. Merritt, p. 161. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press, 1989.

Peterson, R. C., and Latham, D. W. “The Radial Velocity and Velocity Dispersion
of the Remote Globular Cluster Palomar 15: Constraints on the Mass of the
Galaxy.” Astrophysical Journal 336 (1989): 178.

Petre, R.; Szymkowiak, A. E.; Seward, F.; and Willingale, R. “A Comprehensive Study
of the X-Ray Structure and Spectrum of IC 443.” Astrophysical Journal 335
(1988): 215.

Phillips, J. D., and Reasenberg, R. D. “Point-to-Point Laser Metrology for POINTS.” In
Topical Meeting on Space Optics for Astrophysics and Earth and Planetary Re
mote Sensing, 1988 Technical Digest Series, vol. 10, p. 22. Washington, D.C.:
Optical Society of America, 1988.

Pineau des Foréts, G.; Flower, D. R.; and Dalgarno, A. “Theoretical Studies of Shocks.”
Monthly Notices of the Royal Astronomical Society 235 (1988): 621.

Press, W. H., and Rybicki, G. B. “Fast Algorithm for Spectral Analysis of Unevenly
Sampled Data.” Astrophysical Journal 338 (1989): 277.

Prolss, G.W.; Roemer, M.; and Slowey, J. W. “Dissipation of Solar Wind
Energy in the Earth’s Upper Atmosphere: The Geomagnetic Activity Effect.”
Advances in Space Research 8(5) (1988): 215.

Ramella, M.; Geller, M. J.; and Huchra, J. P. “Groups of Galaxies in the Center for
Astrophysics Redshift Survey.” Astrophysical Journal 344 (1989): 57.

Ramos, R.; Hing, $.M.; Leidich, C. A.; Fazio, G.; Houck, J. R.; and Rieke, G. “Space
Infrared Telescope Facility (SIRTF) Science Instruments.” Proceedings of the
Society of Photo-Optical Instrumentation Engineers 973-02 (1988).

Reasenberg, R. D. “On the Threshold: Astrometric Optical Interferometry in Space
with POINTS.” In Topical Meeting on Space Optics for Astrophysics and Earth
and Planetary Remote Sensing, 1988 Technical Digest Series, vol. 10, p. 13.
Washington, D.C.: Optical Society of America, 1988.

Reasenberg, R. D.; Babcock, R.W.; Chandler, J. F.; Gorenstein, M. V.; Huchra,
J. P.; Pearlman, M. R.; Shapiro, I. I; Taylor, R. §.; Bender, P.; Buffington,
A.; Carney, B.; Hughes, J. A.; Johnston, K. J.; Jones, B. F.; and Matson,
L. E. “Microarcsecond Optical Astrometry: An Instrument and Its Astrophysical
Applications.” Astronomical Journal 96 (1988): 1731.

Reasenberg, R. D.; Babcock, R. W.; Chandler, J. F.; and Shapiro, I. I. “Testing Gen-
eral Relativity with POINTS, a Space-Based Astrometric Optical Interferome-
ter.” In Proceedings of International Symposium on Experimental Gravitational
Physics, ed. P. F. Michelson, p. 3. Singapore: World Scientific Publishing Com-
pany, 1988.

158
Reasenberg, R. D., and Vessot, R. F. C. (editors). Proceedings of Symposium 15
of the COSPAR 27th Plenary Meeting, “Relativistic Gravitation,” Advances in
Space Research, vol. 9(9). Oxford: Pergamon Press, 1989.

Regos, E., and Geller, M. J. “Infall Patterns Around Rich Clusters of Galaxies.”
Astronomical Journal 98 (1989): 755.

Reid, M. J. “The Distance to the Galactic Center: R,.” In The Center of the Galaxy,
Proceedings of IAU Symposium No. 136, ed. M. Morris, p. 37. Dordrecht,
Holland: Kluwer Academic Publishers, 1989.

Reid, M. J.; Biretta, J. A.; Junor, W.; Muxlow, T. W. B.; and Spencer, R. E.
“Subluminal Motion and Limb Brightening in the Nuclear Jet of M87.”
Astrophysical Journal 336 (1989): 112.

Reitsema, H. J.; Delamere, W. A.; and Whipple, F. L. “Active Polar Regions on the
Nucleus of Comet Halley.” Science 241 (1989): 198.

Rodriguez, L. F.; Cantd, J.; and Moran, J. M. “The Bipolar HII Region NGC 63344.”
Astrophysical Journal 333 (1988): 801.

Roncin, J. Y.; Launay, F.; and Yoshino, K. “Vacuum Ultraviolet Emission from Highly
Excited States of Molecular Nitrogen.” Journal of Molecular Spectroscopy 134
(1989): 390.

Rosenkrantz, M. E., and Kirby, K. “Theoretical Study of Low-Lying 1y>~ and !A States
of CO.” Journal of Chemical Physics 90 (1989): 6528.

Rosner, R., and Tucker, W. H. “On Magnetic Fields, Heating and Thermal Conduction
in Halos, and the Suppression of Cooling Flows.” Astrophysical Journal 338
(1989): 761.

Rubio, M.; Garay, G.; Dame, T. M.; and Thaddeus, P. “A CO Survey of the Large Mag-
ellanic Cloud.” In Molecular Clouds in the Milky Way and External Galaxies,
Lecture Notes in Physics No. 315, eds. R. Dickman, R. L. Snell, and J. S. Young,
p. 423. Berlin: Springer-Verlag Publishing Company, 1988.

Rybicki, G. B. “Dawson’s Integral and the Sampling Theorem.” Computers in Physics
3 (No. 2) (1989): 85.

Ryden, B.S. “Collapse of Density Peaks in a Gaussian Random Field.” Astrophysical
Journal 333 (1988): 78.

. “The Area of Isodensity Contours as a Measure of Large Scale Structure.”

Astrophysical Journal] (Letters) 333 (1988): L41.

“The Area of Isodenity Contours in Gaussian and non-Gaussian Fields.”
Publications of the Astronomical Society of the Pacific 100 (1988): 1360.

Ryden, B. S.; Melott, A. L.; Craig, D. A.; Gott, J. R., II]; Weinberg, D. H.; Scherrer,
R. J.; Bhavsar, S. P.; and Miller, J. M. “The Area of Isodensity Contours in
Cosmological Models and Galaxy Surveys.” Astrophysical Journal 340 (1989):
647.

Saar, S. H. “The Magnetic Fields on Cool Stars and Their Correlation with Chro-
mospheric and Coronal Emission.” In The NATO Advanced Study Institute on
Hot Thin Plasmas in Astrophysics, ed. R. Pallavicini, p. 139. Dordrecht, Hol-
land: Kluwer Academic Publishers, 1988.

Sahai, R.; Claussen, M. J.; and Masson, C. R. “The Centimeter Radio Continuum
from IRC+10216 and Other Late-Type Stars with Mass Loss Envelopes.”
Astronomy and Astrophysics 220 (1989): 92.

I§9
Sargent, A. I.; Beckwith, S.; Keene, J. B.; and Masson, C. R. “Small-Scale Structure of
the Circumstellar Gas around L1551 IRS 5.” Astrophysical Journal 333 (1989):
936.

Schild, R., and Weir, N. “The Optical Nebulosity Around the T Tauri Star RNO 91 in
the L43 Dense Molecular Core.” Astronomical Journal 97 (1989): 1110.

Schrijver, C. J.; Coté, J.; Zwaan, C.; and Saar, S. H. “Relations between the
Photospheric Magnetic Field and the Emission from the Outer Atmospheres of
Cool Stars I. The Solar Ca II K Line-Core Emission.” Astrophysical Journal 337
(1989): 964.

Schwartz, D. A.; Qian, Y.; and Tucker, W. H. “The Shape of Soft X-Ray Spectra of
Quasars.” In Active Galactic Nuclei, Proceedings of IAU Symposium No. 134,
eds. D. E. Osterbrock and J. S. Miller, p. 175. Dordrecht, Holland: Kluwer
Academic Publishers, 1989.

Seitzer, P.; Peterson, R.; and Cudworth, K. “The Dynamics of M15.” In
Dynamics of Dense Stellar Systems, ed. D. Merritt, p. 153. Dordrecht, Holland:
Kluwer Academic Publishers, 1989.

Seward, F. D. “The Crab-Like Supernova Remnants.” Space Science Reviews 49
(1989): 385.

. “X-Rays from G54.1+0.3.” Astronomical Journal 97 (1989): 481.

Shapiro, I. I.; Reasenberg, R. D.; Chandler, J. F.; and Babcock, R. W. “Measurement
of the de Sitter Precession of the Moon: A Relativistic Three-Body Effect.”
Physical Review Letters 61 (1988): 2643.

Slane, P., and Fry, W. F. “Anomalous Periodicity in the Very High Energy Gamma-Ray
Sources.” Astrophysical Journal 342 (1989): 1129.

Slane, P.; McLaughlin, E. R.; Schwartz, D. A.; Van Speybroeck, L. P.; Bilbro, J. W.;
and Nerren, B. H. “Measurement of the Effects of Particulate Contamination
on X-Ray Reflectivity.” In Reflective Optics II, Proceedings of SPIE, vol. 1113,
ed. D. Korsch, p. 12. Bellingham, Washington: Society of Photo-Optical
Instrumentation Engineers, 1989.

Slowey, J. W. “The Impact of Tether on Atmospheric Science.” In Tethers in Space
Toward Flight, p. 127. Washington, D.C.: American Institute of Aeronautics and
Astronautics, Inc., 1989.

Spiller, E.; Grebe, K.; and Golub, L. “Filters for Soft X-Ray Solar Telescopes.” In
X-Ray/EUV Optics for Astronomy and Microscopy, Proceedings of SPIE, vol.
1160, ed. R. B. Hoover, p. 66. Bellingham, Washington: Society of Photo-
Optical Instrumentation Engineers, 1989.

Stacy, J. G.; Bitran, M. E.; Dame, T. M.; and Thaddeus, P. “Wide-Line Molecular
Clouds and the Gamma-Ray Deficit Toward the Galactic Center.” The Center of
the Galaxy, Proceedings of IAU Symposium No. 136, ed. M. Morris, p. 157.
Dordrecht, Holland: Kluwer Academic Publishers, 1989.

Stacy, J. G.; Myers, P. C.; and de Vries, H. W. “A Search for Dense Cores in
High-Latitude Molecular Clouds.” In Molecular Clouds in the Milky Way and
External Galaxies, Lecture Notes in Physics No. 315, eds. R. Dickman, R. L.
Snell, and J. S. Young, p. 38. Berlin: Springer-Verlag Publishing Company,
1988.

. “Dense Cores Associated with Diffuse, High Latitude Molecular Clouds.” In

160
The Physics and Chemistry of Interstellar Molecular Clouds, Lecture Notes
in Physics No. 331, eds. G. Winnewisser and J. T. Armstrong, p. 117. Berlin:
Springer-Verlag Publishing Company, 1989.

Sternberg, A., and Dalgarno, A. “The Infrared Response of Molecular Hydrogen Gas to
Ultraviolet Radiation: High Density Regions.” Astrophysical Journal 338 (1989):
197.

Sternberg, A.; Dalgarno, A.; and Rouef, E. “The Bowen Mechanism and Charge
Transfer.” Comments on Astrophysics 13 (1988): 29.

Stocke, J. T.; Hartigan, P. M.; Strom, S. E.; Strom, K. M.; Anderson, E. R.; Hartmann,
L. W.; and Kenyon, S. J. “A Detailed Study of the Lynds 1551 Star Formation
Region.” Astrophysical Journal (Supplement) 68 (1988): 229.

Stockés’3J.9 Ts); Morrisi: S.''L.: Gioia; “1... M.;;""Maccacaro, 1 -s.-Schild, oR: .B.:
and Wolter, A. “The Optical and Radio Properties of X-Ray Selected BL
Lacertids.” In Proceedings of the Meeting on BL Lac Objects: 10 Years After,
eds. L. Maraschi, T. Maccacaro, and M.-H. Ulrich, p. 242. Berlin: Springer-
Verlag Publishing Company, 1989.

Strong, A. W.; Bloemen, J. B. G. M.; Dame, T. M.; Grenier, I. A.; Hermsen,
W.; Lebrun, F.; Nyman, L.-A.; Pollock, A. M. T.; and Thaddeus, P.
“The Radial Distribution of Galactic Gamma Rays IV. The Whole Galaxy.”
Astronomy and Astrophysics 207 (1988): 1.

Tananbaum, H. “The Advanced X-Ray Astrophysics Facility.” In Hot Thin Plasmas
in Astrophysics, ed. R. Pallavacini, p. 379. Dordrecht, Holland: Kluwer
Academic Publishers, 1988.

Tang, G.; Ronnang, B.; and Baath, L. “Radio Source Structure from Geodetic VLBI
Observations: Evolution of the Quasar 3C345 at 8 GHz.” Astronomy and Astro-
physics 216 (1989): 31

Terebey, S.; Vogel, S. N.; and Myers, P. C. “High Resolution CO Observations of Young
Low-Mass Stars.” Astrophysical Journal 340 (1989): 472.

Thaddeus, P. “Galactic Molecular Surveys: The Role of Small Telescopes.” In
The Physics and Chemistry of Interstellar Molecular Clouds, Lecture Notes
in Physics No. 331, eds. G. Winnewisser and J. T. Armstrong, p. 14. Berlin:
Springer-Verlag Publishing Company, 1989.

Thorstensen, J. R.; Brownsberger, K. R.; Mook, D. E.; Remillard, R. A.; McClintock,
J. E.; Koo, D. C.; and Charles, P. A. “Optical Observations of the X-Ray Binary
V1727 Cygni (=4U2129+47) during a Low State: Some Unexpected Results.”
Astrophysical Journal 334 (1988): 430. ,

Thorstensen, J.; Wegner, G.; Hamwey, R.; Boley, F.; Geller, M.; Huchra, J.; and Kurtz,
M. “Redshifts for a Sample of Fainter Galaxies in the First CfA Survey Slice.”
Astronomical Journal 98 (1989): 1143.

Torrelles, J. M.; Ho, P. T. P.; Rodriguez, L. F., and Canté, J. “Ammonia Observations
of the AFGL 2591 Region: A Possible Cavity in the Molecular Cloud.”
Astrophysical Journal 343 (1989): 222.

Traub, W. A. “Polarization Effects in Stellar Interferometers.” In High Resolution
Imaging by Interferometry, ESO Conference Proceedings No. 29, ed. F. Merkle,
p. 1029. Garching bei Munchen, FRG: European Southern Observatory, 1988.

Traub, W. A., and Lacasse, M. G. “Laboratory Measurements of Visibility Using
Dispersed Fringes in Wavenumber Space.” In High Resolution Imaging by Inter-
ferometry, ESO Conference Proceedings No. 29, ed. F. Merkle, p. 947. Garching
bei Munchen, FRG: European Southern Observatory, 1988.

Trinchieri, G.; Fabbiano, G.; and Bandiera, R. “Far-Infrared Emission and Star
Formation in Spiral Galaxies.” Astrophysical Journal 342 (1989): 759.

Turnshek, D. A.; Wolfe, A. M.; Lanzetta, K. M.; Briggs, F. H.; Cohen, R. D.; Foltz,
C. G.; Smith, H. E.; and Wilkes, B. J. “Damped Lyman-Alpha Absorption by
Disk Galaxies with Large Redshifts. III. Intermediate-Resolution Spectroscopy.”
Astrophysical Journal 334 (1989): 567.

Ungerechts, H., and Thaddeus, P. “A CO Survey of the Giant Molecular Cloud Complex
Toward Cas A.” In The Physics and Chemistry of Interstellar Molecular Clouds,
Lecture Notes in Physics No. 331, eds. G. Winnewisser and J. T. Armstrong,
p. 213. Berlin: Springer-Verlag Publishing Company, 1989.

Unwin, S.; Cohen, M.; Biretta, J.; Hodges, M.; and Zensus, J. “Superluminal Motion
in the Quasar 3C 279.” Astrophysical Journal 340 (1989): 117.

Vacanti, G.; Cawley, M. F.; Fegan, D. J.; Gibbs, K. G.; Hillas, A. M.; Kwok, P. W.;
Lamb, R. C.; Lewis, D. A.; Macomb, D.; Porter, N. A.; Reynolds, P. T.;
and Weekes, T. C. “Search for Pulsed TeV Emission from PSR0531+21.” In
Cosmic Gamma Rays, Neutrinos, and Related Astrophysics, Proceedings of the
NATO Advanced Study Institute, vol. 270, eds. M. M. Shapiro and J. P. Wefel,
p. 245. Dordrecht, Holland: Kluwer Academic Publishers, 1989.

Vacanti, G.; Cawley, M. F.; Fegan, D. J.; Hillas, A. M.; Kwok, P. W.; Lamb,
R. C.; Lang, M. J.; Lewis, D. A.; Macomb, D. J.; Reynolds, P. T.;
and Weekes, T. C. “TeV Gamma-Ray Astronomy in the GRO Era.” In
Proceedings of the Gamma-Ray Observatory Workshop, ed. W. N. Johnson, p.
4-40. Greenbelt, Maryland: Goddard Space Flight Center, 1989.

van Ballegooijen, A. A. “Magnetic Fields in the Accretion Disks of Cataclysmic
Variables.” In Magnetic Fields and Accretion Disks in Astrophysics, ed. G.
Belvedere, p. 99. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1989.

van Ballegooijen, A. A., and Martens, P. C. H. “Formation and Eruption of Solar
Prominences.” Astrophysical Journal 343 (1989): 971.

Van Speybroeck, L.; Reid, P.; Schwartz, D.; and Bilbro, J. “Predicted and Prelimi-
nary Evaluation of the X-Ray Performance of the AXAF Technology Mirror As-
sembly.” In X-Ray/EUV Optics for Astronomy and Microscopy, Proceedings of
SPIE, vol. 1160, ed. R. B. Hoover, p. 94. Bellingham, Washington: Society of
Photo-Optical Instrumentation Engineers, 1989.

Vessot, R. F. C. “Hydrogen Maser Clocks and Deep Space Systems Involving Clocks.”
In Proceedings of International Symposium on Experimental Gravitational
Physics, ed. P. F. Michelson, p. 14. Singapore: World Scientific Publishing
Company, 1988.

. “Clocks and Spaceborne Tests of Relativistic Gravitation.” Advances in Space
Research 9(9) (1989): 21.

Vessot, R. F. C.; Mattison, E. M.; Walsworth, R. L.; and Silvera, I. F. “The Cold .
Hydrogen Maser.” In Frequency Standards and Metrology, ed. A. DeMarchi;
p. 88. Berlin: Springer-Verlag Publishing Company, 1989.

Vetrella, S.; Moccia, A.; Lorenzini, E. C.; and Cosmo, M. “Attitude Dynamics

162
of the Tether Elevator/Crawler System for Micro-Gravity Applications.” In
Tethers in Space Toward Flight, p. 323. Washington, D.C.: American Institute
of Aeronautics and Astronautics, Inc., 1989.

Walsh, D. E. P.; Knapp, G. R.; Wrobel, J. M.; and Kim, D.-W. “Interstellar
Matter in Early Type Galaxies. JI]. Radio Emission and Star Formation.”
Astrophysical Journal 337 (1989): 209.

Weekes, T. C. “Gamma-Ray Astronomy at the Highest Energies.” Nuclear Instruments
and Methods (Proceedings of the 4th International Conference on Radiation
Physics, Sao Paulo, Brazil), A280 (1989): 349.

. “TeV Gamma Ray Astronomy.” Nuclear Physics B 10B (1989): 41.

Whipple, F. L. “Comets in the Space Age.” Astrophysical Journal 341 (1989): 1.

Wilkes, B. J.; Elvis, M.; and McDowell, J. “Is There a Relation between Optical Emis-
sion Line Strengths and Continuum Shapes.” In Active Galactic Nuclei, IAU
Symposium No. 134, eds. D. E. Osterbrock and J. S. Miller, p. 187. Dordrecht,
Holland: Kluwer Academic Publishers, 1989.

Willette, G. T. “The Formation of Tangential Discontinuities in Line-Tied Force-Free
Fields: Topological Heating of the Solar Corona.” Senior Thesis, Astronomy
Department, Harvard University (1988).

Wilson, T. L.; Johnston, K. J.; Henkel, C.; and Menten, K. M. “The Distribution of
Hot Thermal Methanol in Orion-KL.” Astrophysical Journal 214 (1989): 321.

Winkler, P. F.; Kirshner, R. P.; Hughes, J. P.; and Heathcote, S. “A Second Supernova
Inside Puppis A.” Nature 337 (1989): 48.

Withbroe, G. L. “The Solar Wind Mass Flux.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 337
(1989): L49.

Wolter, A. “Properties of a Large Sample of X-Ray Selected Active Galactic Nuclei
from the Einstein Observatory Medium Sensitivity Survey.” In Active Galactic
Nuclei and Supernova, Proceedings of the 20th Yamada Conference on Big
Bang, eds. S. Hayakawa and K. Sato, p. 175. Tokyo, Japan: Universal Academy
Press, Inc., 1989.

Wood, D. O. S., and Churchwell, E. “The Morphologies and Physical Properties of
Ultracompact H II Regions.” Astrophysical Journal Supplement 69 (1989): 831.

“Massive Stars Embedded in Molecular Clouds: Their Population and
Distribution in the Galaxy.” Astrophysical Journal 340 (1989): 265.

Wood, J. A., and Hashimoto, A. “Effects of Redox State on Stable Mineral Assemblages
in the Solar Nebula” (abstract). In Proceedings of the 28th International Geolog-
ical Congress, vol. 3, p. 380. Washington, D.C.: International Geological
Congress, 1989.

Woodward, D. R.; Pearson, J. C.; Gottlieb, C. A.; and Thaddeus, P. “The Radio
Spectrum of the C4D Radical.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 333 (1988): L29.

Worrall, D. M. “Spectral Components of BL Lac Objects and Other Compact Ex-
tragalactic Radio Sources.” In Proceedings of the Meeting on BL Lac Objects:
10 Years After, eds. L. Maraschi, T. Maccacaro, and M.-H. Ulrich, p. 305.
Berlin: Springer-Verlag Publishing Company, 1989.

Worrall, D. M., and Wilkes, B. J. “A Comparison of the X-Ray Spectra of Quasars
and BL Lac objects.” In Active Galactic Nuclei, Proceedings of IAU Symposium
No. 134, eds. D. E. Osterbrock and J. S. Miller, p. 197. Dordrecht, Holland:

Kluwer Academic Publishers, 1989.

Wu, C.-C.; Panek, R. J.; Holm, A. V.; Raymond, J. C.; Hartmann, L. W.; and Swank,
J. “Ultraviolet Spectrophotometry and Optical and Infrared Photometry of the
Old Nova GK Persei.” Astrophysical Journal 339 (1989): 443.

Yoshino, K.; Cheung, A. S.-C.; Esmond, J. R.; Parkinson, W. H.; Freeman, D. E.;
Guberman, S. L.; Jenouvrier, A.; Coquart, B.; and Merienne, M. F. “Improved
Absorption Cross Sections of Oxygen in the Wavelength Region 205-240 nm of
the Herzberg Continuum.” Planetary and Space Science 36 (1988): 1469.

Yoshino, K.; Freeman, D. E.; Esmond, J. R.; Friedman, R. S.; and Parkinson, W. H.
“High Resolution Absorption Cross Sections and Band Oscillator Strengths of
the Schumann-Runge Absorption Bands of Isotopic Oxygen, 180,, at 79K.”
Planetary and Space Science 36 (1988): 1201.

. “High Resolution Absorption Cross Sections and Band Oscillator Strengths of
the Schumann-Runge Absorption Bands of Isotopic Oxygen, 169189 at 79K.”
Planetary and Space Science 37 (1989): 419.

Zombeck, M. V. “Imaging at Soft X-Ray Wavelengths with Microchannel Plates.” In
X-Ray Instrumentation in Medicine and Biology, Plasma Physics, Astrophysics,
and Synchrotron Radiation, Proceedings of the SPIE, vol. 1140, ed. R. Denat-
tar, p. 58. Bellingham, Washington: Society of Photo-Optical Instrumentation
Engineers, 1989.

Zygelman, B.; Dalgarno, A.; Kimura, M.; and Lane, N. F. “Radiative and Non-
Radiative Charge Transfer in He+ + H Collisions at Low Energy.” Physical
Review A 40 (1989): 2340.

164
SMITHSONIAN ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH CENTER

Correll, D. Le. (1989). The nature of solar radiation and its spatial and
temporal variation on the earth's surface. pp. 19-21. In: A.
Moshell (ed.), Sunlight, Ultraviolet Radiation, and the Skin. NIH
Concensus Development Conference. U.S. Government Printing Office,
Washington, D.C.

Curtis, P. S.; B. G. Drake; and D. F. Whigham. (1989). Nitrogen and
carbon dynamics in C3 and C4 estuarine marsh plants grown under
elevated C0., in situ. Qecologia 78: 297-301.

Curtis, P. S.; B. G. Drake; P. W. Leadley; W. J. Arp and D. F. Whigham.
(1989). Growth and senescence in plant communities exposed to
elevated CO, concentrations on an estuarine marsh. Oecologia 76:

2
20-26.
Drake, B. G. (1989). Photosynthesis of saltmarsh species. Aquatic Botany
34: 167-180.

Drake, B. G.; P. W. Leadley; W. J. Arp; D. Nassiry and P. S. Curtis.
(1989). An open top chamber for field studies of elevated atmospheric
ay concentration on saltmarsh vegetation. Functional Ecology 3:
363-371.

Hines, A. H. (1988). Fecundity and reproductive output in two species of
deep-sea crabs, Geryon fenneri and G. quinquedens (Decapoda:
Brachyura). Journal of Crustacean Biology 8: 557-562.

Hines, A. H. (1989). Geographic variation in size at maturity in
Brachyuran crabs. Bulletin of Marine Science 45: 301-327.

Hines, A. H.; M. H. Posey and P. J. Haddon. (1989). Effects of adult
Suspension- and deposit-feeding bivalves on recruitment of estuarine
infauna. The Veliger 32: 109-119.

Leck, Me2A.cg Ro LarSimpson;. D.°F «Whigham: and C.)\Fo ‘Leck. (1988)... Plants
of the Hamilton Marshes: A Delaware River freshwater tidal wetland.
Bartonia 54: 1-17.

Monk, C. D.; D. W. Imm; R. L. Potter and G. G. Parker. (1989). A classi-
fication of the deciduous forest of eastern North America. Vegetatio
80: 167-181.

Parker, G. G. (1989). Are currently available statistical methods
adequate for long-term studies? pp. 199-200. In: G. E. Likens
(ed.), Long-term studies in ecology, approaches and alternatives.
Springer Verlag, New York.

Pearse, J. S. and A. H. Hines. (1987). Long-term population dynamics of
sea urchins in a central California kelp forest: rare recruitment and
rapid decline. Marine Ecology Progress Series 39: 275-283.

Rublee, P. A. and C. L. Gallegos. (1989). Use of fluorescently labelled
algae (FLA) to estimate microzooplankton grazing. Marine Ecology
Progress Series 51: 221-227.

Whigham, D. F.; B. Palmer and C. Chitterling. (1988). The impacts of
freshwater wetlands and water quality: a landscape perspective.
Environmental Management 12: 663-671.

Whigham, D. F. and J. O'Neill. (1988). The importance of predation and
small scale disturbance to two woodland herb species. pp. 243-252.
Ins; Ms, Js As-Werger,. Peds Me wan der Aart, H.. ds, During and:J. T./A.

Verhoeven (eds.), Plant form and vegetation structure: adaptation,

plasticity and relation to herbivory. SPB Academic Publishers, The
Hague, The Netherlands.
Weller, D. Ej. (1987). Self-thinning exponent correlated with allometric
measures of plant geometry. Ecology 68: 813-821.

Weller, D. Ej (1987). A reevaluation of the -3/2 power rule of self-
thinning. Ecological Monographs 57: 23-43.

Weller, D. E~ (1989). The interspecific size-density relationship among
crowded plant stands and its implications for the -3/2 power rule of
self-thinning. American Naturalist 133: 20-41.

Wolcott, T. G. and A. H. Hines. (1989). Ultrasonic biotelemetry of muscle
activity from free-ranging marine animals: a new method for studying

foraging by Blue Crabs (Callinectes sapidus). Biological Bulletin
176: 50-56.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION ARCHIVES

Bain, Alan L. "Guide to the Records of the National Zoological
Park, 1887-1965, and undated." Guides to Collections in the
Smithsonian. _Archives; no. .:10. Archives and Special
Collections of the Smithsonian Institution. Washington, D.C.:
Smithsonian Archives, 1989.

Shoemaker, Rebecca V. "Guide to the Papers of Robert E.
Silberglied, 1946-1984, and undated." Guides to Collections
in the Smithsonian Archives, no. 9. Archives and Special

Collections of the Smithsonian Institution. Washington, D.C.:
Smithsonian Archives, 1989.

Vogt-O'Connor,: Diane L. "The American Album." In Images of
America. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press,
1989.
Smithsonian Institution Libraries

Silvio A. Bedini, Thomas Jefferson, Statesman of Science. New
York: Macmillan, 1989.
Nancy E. Gwinn. "Libraries and Scholarly Communication in the

United States, the Historical Dimension: A Summary",
Libraries & Culture. A Journal of Library History 23, No. 4
(Fall 1988): 499-506. Reprinted from the Library of
Congress Information Bulletin 47: 16.

- "The Smithsonian Institution Libraries: Afoot in
Three Camps," College & Research Libraries 50, No. 2 (March
1989): 206-214.

Kay A. Kenyon. "National Zoological Park Library", Sci-Tech
Libraries Serving Zoological Gardens, Ellis Mount, ed.
Science and Technology Libraries 8 (4): 1-8. New York: The
Haworth Press, 1988.

. Directory of Zoo and Aquarium Libraries. Intro.,
Table of Contents, Index. 41 pp. Washington, D.C.:
SmithsonianInstitution Libraries, (June) 1989.

Karen Preslock, "Pest Control in Museums (1986): A Partially
Annotated Bibliography," A Guide to Museum Pest Control.
Lynda:A. Zycherman and John Richard Schrock, eds. pp. 177-
98. Washington, D.C.: Foundation of the American Institute
for Conservation of Historic and Artistic Works and the
Association of Systematics Collections, 1988.

Joyce M. Rey-Watson. "Online Bibliographic Resources in
Astronomy and Astrophysics". Harvard-Smithsonian Center for
Astrophysics Preprint Series No. 2758 (3 pp.), October,
1988. To appear in Proceedings of IAU Colloquium No. 110,
"Library and Information Services in Astronomy", G. Wilkins
and S. Stevens-Rayburn, eds.

"It's All in One Place with SIMBAD", Information
Systems Newsletter, Issue 15 (Dec. 1988): 22-24. OSSA: NASA
Office of Space Science and Applications.

and Roger Hauck. "SIMBAD". Data Systems Users

Working Group (DSUWG) Proceedings, October 24-26, 1988.
Anaheim, California. Edited by Valerie L. Thomas and James
L. Green. pp. 103-109. Greenbelt, Maryland: NASA NSSDC,
1989.

with others. SIMBAD's User's Guide (English version),
1989.

with Carol Rhodes and Michael Kurtz. An Astronomical
Software Documentation Collection at the Smithsonian

Astrophysical Observatory. Center for Astrophysics Preprint
Series No. 2728 [{i, 10]. Harvard-Smithsonian Center for

Astrophysics, 1988.

Martin A. Smith and Susan S. Mottu, eds., Encyclopedia of
Physical Sciences and Engineering Information Sources.
Detroit: Gale Research, Inc., 1989.

Janet L. Stanley. Review: Honey from the lion: an African
journey, by Wendy Belcher. Library Journal (New York) April
1, 1988.

- Review: Mande blacksmiths: knowledge, power, and art
in West Africa (1988) by Patrick R. McNaughton. In Art

167
documentation (Tucson) 7 (4): 172 (Winter 1988).
Review. "South African music encyclopedia (1969-
1986). African Book Publishing Record 14 (2): 108 (1988).
Ellen B. Wells. "Horse History Books," in National Sporting
Library Newsletter, No. 25: [5-7].

- "Wood, John George (1827-1889)." In Victorian Britain:
an Encyclopedia. p. 871. New York: Garland Publishing,
1988.

"Stratigraphy's Golden Age: Murchison and His
Silurian System" (illustrated exhibition catalogue),
Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Libraries, 1989.
SMITHSONIAN TROPICAL RESEARCH INSTITUTE

Abele, Lawrence G. and Kim, Won. "The Decapod Crustaceans of the Panama Canal.”
Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology 482: 1-50 (1989).

Aide, T. Mitchell. "Herbivory as a Selective Agent on the Timing of Leaf Production in a
Tropical Understory Community." Nature 336 (6199): 574-575 (1988).

Ainly, D.G., Carter, H.R., Anderson, D.W., Briggs, K.T., Coulter, M.C., Cruz, J.B., Valle,
C.A., Fefer, S.I., Hatch, $.A., Schreiber, E.A., Schreiber, R.W., and Smith, N.G.
"Effects of the 1982-83 El] Nifio - Southern Oscillation on Pacific Ocean Bird
Populations. In: Proceedings of the International Omithological Congress, Otawa,
Canada 1986: 1747-1758 (1989).

Aiello, Annette. "A Field Guide to Coastal Wetland Plants of the Northeastern United
States," by Ralph W. Tiner Jr." (Book review). Library Journal 112 (2): 71 (1987).

"Bites and Stings: The World of Venomous Animals, by John Nichol
(Book review). Library Journal (July 1989).

"Enduring Seeds: Native American Agriculture and Wild Plant
Conservation, by Gary Paul Nabhan" (Book review). Library Journal (March 1989).
. "New Generation Guide to the Wild Flowers of Bntain and Northern

Europe, by Alistair Fitter" (Book review). Library Journal 112 (13): 116 (1987).

"The RHS Encyclopedia of House Plants Including Greenhouse Plants, by
Kenneth A. Becket with Royal Horticultural Society" (Book review). Library
Journal 112 (16): 86 (1987).

"The Smithsonian Guide to Seaside Plants of the Gulf and Atlantic Coasts
from Louisiana to Massachusetts, Exclusive of Lower Peninsular Florida, by Wilbur
H. Duncan and Marion B. Duncan" (Book review). Library Journal 112 (11): 78
(1987).

"

Plantwatching: How Plants Remember, Tell Time, Form Partnerships and
More, by Malcolm Wilkins" (Book review). Library Journal 113 (18): 101 (1988).

"Wily Violets and Underground Orchids, by Peter Bernhardt" (Book
review). Library Journal 114 (10): 138, 140 (June 1989).
. "The World of Northern Evergreens, by E. C. Pielou" (Book review).
Library Journal 113 (6): 92 (1988).

Aiello, Annette and Brown Jr., Keith S. "Mimicry by Illusion in a Sexually Dimorphic,
Day-Flying Moth, Dysschema jansonis (Lepidoptera: Arctiidae: Pericopinae)."
Journal of Research on the Lepidoptera 26 (1-4): 173-176 (1988).

Alverson, William S. "Quararibea (Bombacaceae): Five New Species from Moist and Wet
Forests of Costa Rica and Panama." Bnittonia 41 (1): 61-74 (1989).

Andrews, Robin M. "Conservation Biology: The Science of Scarcity and Diversity, edited
by Michael E. Soule" (Book review). The Journal of Heredity 78 (1): 62 (1987).

. "Demographic Correlates of Variable Egg Survival for a Tropical Lizard."
Oecologia 76 (3): 376-382 (1988).

Angehr, George R. Descorriendo la Cortina Verde: Evolucién de la Biologia Tropical en
Panam4. Parting the Green Curtain: The Evolution of Tropical Biology in Panama.
Published in conjunction with the exhibition Parting the Green Curtain: The
Evolution of Tropical Biology in Panama, the occasion of the opening of the Tupper
Research and Conference Center of the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute,
Panama City, Panama. (Anaconda Press, 1989).

169
Aparicio Méndez, Rolando. Determinacién de Trazas de Cobre en Muestras de Corales y
Auga de Mar Cercanas a Bahia Las Minas. Tesis, Escuela de Quimica, Facultad de
Ciencias Naturales y Exactas (Panama: Universidad de Panama, 1988).

Arias, T.D., Inaba, T., Cooke, Richard G. and Jorge, L.F. "A Preliminary Note on the
Transient Polymorphic Oxidation of Sparteine in the Ngawbé Guaymi Amerindians:
A Case of Genetic Divergence with Tentative Phylogenetic Time Frame for the
Pathway." Clin Pharmacol Ther 44 (3): 343-352 (1988).

Augspurger, Carol K. "Impact of Pathogens on Natural Plant Populations” in Plant
Population Ecology, The 28th Symposium of the British Ecological Society, Sussex
1987: 413-433. Edited by A.J. Davy, M.J. Hutchings and A.R. Watkinson (Oxford:
Blackwell Scientific Publications, 1988).

"Plant Populations and Pathogens", Book review of Diseases and Plant
Population Biology, by Jeremy J. Burdon. Ecology 69 (2): 552 (1988).

Augspurger, Carol K. and Franson, Susan E. "Input of Wind-Dispersed Seeds into
Light-Gaps and Forest Sites in a Neotropical Forest." Journal of Tropical Ecology 4
(3): 239-252 (1988).

Avise, John C., Arnold, Jonathan, Ball, R. Martn, Bermingham, Eldredge, Lamb, Trip,
Neigel, Joseph E., Reeb, Carol A. and Saunders, Nancy C. "Intraspecific
Phylogeography: The Mitochondrial DNA Bridge Between Population Genetics and
Systematics." Annual Review of Ecology and Systematics 18: 489-522 (1987).

Ball Jr., R. Martin, Freeman, Scott, James, Fraces C., Bermingham, Eldredge and Avise,
John C. "Phylogeographic Population Structure of Red-Winged Blackbirds Assessed
by Mitochondrial DNA." Proceedings of the National Academy of Science 85:
1558-1562 (1988).

Baumgartner, Donald L. and Roubik, David W. "Ecology of Necrophilus and Filth-
Gathering Stingless Bees (Apidae: Meliponinae) of Peru." Journal of the Kansas
Entomological Society 62 (1): 11-22 (1989).

Becker, P., Erhart, D.W. and Smith, A.P. "Analysis of Forest Light Environments Part I.
Computerized Estimation of Solar Radiation from Hemispherical Canopy
Photographs." Agricultural and Forest Meteorology 44: 217-232 (1989).

Belwood, Jacqueline J. "Foraging Behavior, Prey Selection, and Echolocation in
Phylostomine Bats (Phyllostomidae)." In Animal Sonar: 601-605. Edited by Paul
E. Nachtigall and Patrick W.B. Moore (New York: Plenum, 1988).

The Influence of Bat Predation on Calling Behavior in Neotropical Forest
Katydids (Insecta: Orthoptera: Tettigoniidae). Ph.D. dissertation (Gainesville:
University of Florida, 1988).

"Sounds of Silence". Bats 6 (2): 5-9 (1988).

Blake, J.G. "Birds of Primary Forest Undergrowth in Western San Blas, Panama." Journal
of Field Ornithology 60 (2): 178-189 (1989).

Brawn, Jeffrey D. "Selectivity and Ecological Consequences of Captivity Nesters Using
Natural vs. Artificial Nest Sites." The Auk 105 (4): 789-791 (1988).

Brawn, Jeffrey D. and Balda, Russell P. "The Influence of Silvicultural Activity on
Ponderosa Pine Forest Bird Community in the Southwestern United States" in Bird
Conservation 3: 3-21. Edited by Jackson, Jerome A. The International Council for
Bird Preservation, United States Section: The University of Wisconsin Press (1988).

Briceno, Jorge and Eberhard, William G. "Functional Morphology of Cerci in Male
Earwigs." Proceedings of the XVIII International Congress of Entomolo

Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada: 208 (1988).

Brucher, Heinz. Useful Plants of Neotropical Origin (New York: Springer-Heidelberg,
1989).

Bush, Mark, Piperno, Dolores, and Colinvaux, P. "A 6,000 Year History of Amazonian
Maize Cultivation." Nature 340: 303-305 (1989).

Camargo, J.M.F., Moure, J.S. and Roubik, David W. "Melipona yucatanica New Species
(Hymenoptera: Apidae: Meliponinae); Stingless Bee Dispersal Across the Caribbean
Arc and Post-Eucene Vicariance." Pan-Pacific Entomologist 64 (2): 147-157 (1988).

Castro, Gonzalo. Ecophysiology of Sanderlings Migrating to Four Different Latitudes.
Ph.D. dissertation, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia (1988).

Castro, Gonzalo and Castro, J.S. "A Dovokie at Island Beach State Park." Cassinia 62:
61-62 (1988).

Castro, Gonzalo and Myers, J.P. "Snowy Plover (Charadrius alexandrinus) Records from
Panama.” American Birds 42 (3): 374 (1988).

Christy, John H. "Attractiveness, Mate Choice and a Sensory Trap in the Fiddler Crab
Uca beebei" (Abstract). American Zoologist 28 (4): 133A (1988).

Cole, Kathleen S. "Predicting the Potential for Sex-Change on the Basis of Ovarian
Structure in Gobiid Fishes." Copeia 1988 (4): 1082-1086 (1988).

Coley, Phyllis D. “Interspecific Variation in Plant Anti-Herbivore Properties: The Role of
Habitat Quality and Rate of Disturbance." New Phytologist 106 (Suppl.): 251-263
(1987).

"Effects of Plant Growth Rate and Leaf Lifetime on the Amount and Type
of Anti-Herbivore Defense." Oecologia 74: 531-536 (1988).

Coley, Phyllis D. and Aide, T. Mitchell. "Red Coloration of Tropical 3 Young Leaves: A
possible Antifungal Defense?" Journal of Tropical Ecology 50: 293-300 (1989).

Cooke, Richard G. "Some Ecological and Technological Correlates of Coastal Fishing in
Formative Pacific Panama” in Diet and Subsistence: Current Archaeological
Perspectives: 127-140. Edited by Brenda V. Kennedy and Genevieve M. LeMoine
(The Archaeological Association of the University of Calgary, 1988).

Cooke, Richard G. and Bush, Mark. "Out-of-Season Red-Necked Phalaropes in Central

Panama." Journal of Field Omithology 60 (1): 39-42 (1989).
Cooke, Richard G. and Ranere, Anthony J. "Hunting in Pre-Columbian Panama: A

Diachronic Perspective" in The Walking Larder. Patterns of Domestication,
Pastoralism, and Predation: 295-315 (1989)).

Craig, Catherine L. "The Significance of Spider Size to the Diversification of Spider-Web
Architectures and Spider Reproductive Modes." American Naturalist 129 (1): 47-68
(1987).

"Spider Webs, Behavior and Evolution, edited by W.A. Shear" (Book
Teview). American Scientist 76 (1): 83-84 (1987).
. "Insect Perception of Spider Orb Webs in Three Light Habitats." Functional
Ecology 2 (3): 277-282 (1988).

D’Croz, Luis. "Survey and Monitoring of Marine Pollution in the Bay of Panama." Co-
operation for Environmental Protection in the Pacific. UNEP Regional Seas Reports
and Studies, No. 97: 115-123 (1988).

D’Croz, Luis, Wong, Luis, Justines, Gustavo and Gupta, Mahabir. "Prostaglandins and
Related Compounds from the Polychaete Worm Americonuphis reesei Fauchald as
Possible Inducers of Gonad Maturation in Penaeid Shrimps." Revista de Biologia
Tropical 36 (2A): 331-332 (1988).

De Leén M., Israel Antonio. El] Distrito de San Francisco: La Estructura Agraria y la
Produccion Agricola. Tesis, Escuela de Geografia, Facultad de Humanidades
(Panama: Universidad de Panama, 1989).

De Nevers, Gregory C. “Bactris divisicupula and Bactris fuscospina Reexamined." Annals
of the Missoun Botanical Garden 75 (3): 1151-1152 (1988).

De Nevers, Gregory C. and Henderson, Andrew. "A New Calyptrogyne (Palmae:
Geonomeae) from Panama." Systematic Botany 13 (3): 428-431 (1988).

DeVries, Philip J. "The Larval Ant-Organs of Thisbe irenea (Lepidoptera: Riodinidae) and
their Effects Upon Attending Ants." Zoological Journal of the Linnean Society 94
(4): 379-393 (1988).

. "Stratification of Fruit-Feeding Nymphalid Butterflies in a Costa Rican
Rainforest." Journal of Research on the Lepidoptera 26 (1-4): 98-108 (1988).
"The Use of Epiphylls as Larval Hostplants by the Neotropical Riodinid

Butterfly Sarota gyas." Journal of Natural History 22 (6): 1447-1450 (1988).
DeVries, Philip J. and Dudley, Robert. "The Lives of Butterflies, by Matthew M. Douglas”

(Book review). Journal of the New York Entomological Society 96 (2): 248-251
(1988).

Dosman, Rosana. Wariaciédn Genética de las Poblaciones de Hydrilla verticillata (L.F.)
Royle, en el Lago Gattin. Tesis, Escuela de Biologia, Facultad de Ciencias
Naturales y Exactas. (Panama, Universidad de Panaméd, 1989).

Dressler, Robert L. and Cook, Summer L. "Conical Silica Bodies in Ena javanica."
Lindleyana 3 (4): 224-225 (1988).

Eberhard, William G. "“Aspectos Ecoldgicos del Manejo Integrado de del Seminario sobre
Manejo Integrado de Plagas, San José, Costa Rica. Serie Técnica. Informe Técnico
No. 81: 22-23 (1988).

. "Behavioral Flexibility in Orb Web Construction." Journal of Arachnology

16: 295-302 (1988).

"Combing and Sticky Silk Attachment Behaviour by Cnibellate Spiders and
Its Taxonomic Implications." Bulletin of the British Arachnological Society 7 (8):
247-251 (1988).

"Effect of Horizontal vs. Vertical Onentation of Orb Webs on Prey
Retention." Bulletin of the British Arachnological Society 7: 247-251 (1988).

"Group Nesting in Two Species of Euglossa Bees." Journal of the Kansas
Entomological Society 61: 406-411 (1989).

"Paradoxical Post-Genitalic Contact Courtship in the Fly Himantigera
nigrifemoralis (Diptera: Stratiomyidae)." Psyche 95: 115-122 (1988).

“Why Do Plasmids Carry Some Genes and Not Others?" Plasmid. 21: 167-
174 (1989).

Feener Jr., Donald H. "Size-Selective Oviposition in Pseudacteon crawfordi (Diptera:
Phoridae), a Parasite of Fire Ants." Annals of the Entomological Society of
America 80 (2): 148-151 (1987).

Feener Jr., Donald H., Lighton, John R.B. and Bartholomew, George A. "Curvilinear
Allometry, Energetics and Foraging Ecology: A Comparison of Leaf-Cutting Ants
and Army Ants." Functional Ecology 2 (4): 509-520 (1988).

"Energetics Costs of Foraging: A Comparison of Leaf-Cutting Ants and
Army Ants" (Abstract). Proceedings of the XVIII International Congress of
Entomology, Vancouver, British Colombia, Canada: 233 (1988).

Fisher, Bnan Lee and Zimmerman, Jess K. "Ant/Orchid Associations in the Barro
Colorado Nature Monument, Panama." Lindleyana 3 (1): 12-16 (1988).

Fleishman, Leo J. "Sensory and Environmental Influences on Display Form in Anolis
auratus, a Grass Anole from Panama." Behavioral Ecology and Sociobiology 22
(5): 309-316 (1988).

. "Sensory Influences on Physical Design of a Visual Display." Animal
Behaviour 36 (5): 1420-1424 (1989).

Foster, Robin B. "Tropical America: Stll an Unknown Termitory." Tropicus 3: 4, 7
(Spring 1988).

"Vegetation of the Beni." Onion (Summer 1989): 39.

Foster, Susan A. "Acquisition of a Defended Resource: A Benefit of Group Foraging for
the Neotropical Wrasse, Thalassoma Jucasanum.” Environmental Biology of Fishes
19 (3): 215-222 (1987).

. "The Relative Impacts of Grazing by Caribbean Coral Reef Fishes and
Diadema: Effects of Habitat and Surge." Journal of Experimental Marine Biology
and Ecology (1987).

Fraga, Rosendo M. "Arboles de Nidificacién y Tamafio de Colonia en la Oropéndula
Psarocolius montezumae." Programa y Publicacién de Resiimenes, W Reunion
Iberoamericana de Conservacién y Zoologia de Vertebrados: Comunicacién a
Simposio No. 8 (Montevideo, 1988).

. "Colony Sizes and Nest Trees of Montezuma Oropendolas in Costa Rica."
Journal of Field Ornithology 60 (3): 289-420 (1989).

. "Nest Sites and Breeding Success of Baywinged Cowbirds (Qublothms
badius)." Journal fur Omithologie 129 (2): 175-184 (1988).

Franks, Nigel. "Army Ants: A Collective Intelligence." American Scientist 77: 138-145
(1989).

Fullard, James H. and Belwood, Jacqueline J. "The Echolocation Assemblage: Acoustic
Ensembles in a Neotropical Habitat" in Animal Sonar: 639-643. Edited by P.H.
Hachtigall and P.W.B. Moore (New York: Plenum, 1988).

Garcia J., Milton N. Biologia Reproductiva del Escorpiédn Centruriodes margaritatus
(Gervais), Buthidae. Tesis, Escuela de Biologia, Facultad de Ciencias Naturales y
Exactas. Panama: Universidad de Panama (1988).

Garwood, Nancy C. "Seed Bank Dynamics in Tropical Forests." American Journal of
Botany 74 (5): 635 (1987).

Garwood, Nancy C. and Tebbs, Margaret. "An Illustrated Seedling Flora of Panama with
Special Emphasis on Barro Colorado Island BCI Panama” (Abstract 17).
International Botanical Congress: 455 (1987).

Glynn, Peter W. "El Nifio-Southern Oscillation 1982-1983: Nearshore Population,
Community, and Ecosystem Responses." Annual Review of Ecology and
Systematics 19: 309-345 (1988).

Gonzalez, Eric Edgardo. Quantitative Distribution of Soft-Bottom Intertidal Fauna of Some
Beaches in Panama City, Panama. A Thesis, Presented to the Department of
Biology, for the Degree of Master of Science (Long Beach: California State
University, 1988).

Gradwohl, Judith and Greenberg, Russell. Saving the Tropical Forests. London:
Earthscan Publications (1988).

Graham, Alan. "Studies in Neotropical Paleobotany. V. The Lower Miocene Communities

of Panama - The Culebra Formation. Annals of the Missoun Botanical Garden 75
(4): 1440-1466 (1988).
"Studies in Neotropical Paleobotany. WI. The Lower Miocene Communities
of Panama - The Cucaracha Formation. Annals of the Missouri Botanical Garden
75 (4) 1467-1479 (1988).

Grayum, Michael H. and De Nevers, Gregory C. "New and Rare Understory Palms from
the Peninsula de Osa, Costa Rica, and Adjacent Regions." Principes 32 (3): 101-
114 (1988).

Greene, Harry W. "Antipredator Mechanisms in Reptiles" in Biology of the Reptilia: 1-
153. Edited by Carl Gans (New York: Alan R. Liss, 1988).

Greenfield, Michael D. "Interspecific Acoustic Interactions Among Katydids
Neoconocephalus: Inhibition-Induced Shifts in Diel Periodicity." Animal Behavior
36 (3): 684-695 (1988).

Gupta, Mahabir, Solis, Pablo, Miranda, Carmen, Montenegro, Orlando, Martinez, Régulo,
Varela, Luis A. and Correa, Mireya. “Actividad Antmicrobiana en Plantas
Medicinales de Panama." Revista Médica de Panama 13: 79-84 (1988).

Gutiérrez, Patricia C. "The Ecology and Behavior of the Mangrove Periwinkle, Littorina
angulifera." Biotropica 20 (4): 352-356 (1988).

Guttman, S.J. and Weight, L.A. "Electrophoretic Evidence of Relationships among Quercus
(Oaks) of Eastern North America." Canadian Journal of Botany 67: 339-351 (1989).

Guzman, Héctor M. "Distnbucién y Abundancia de Organismos Coralivoros en los
Arrecifes Coralinos de la Isla del Cafio, Costa Rica. Revista de Biologia Tropical
36 (2A): 191-207 (1988).

. "Feeding Activity of the Corallivorous Gastropod Quoyula monodonta
(Blanville)." Revista de Biologia Tropical 36 (2A): 209-212 (1988).
"Primer Informe de un Coral Acropérido para el Pacifico Oriental: Critica
a Prahl y Mejia." Revista de Biologia Tropical 36 (1): 163-166 (1988).

Guzman, Héctor M. and Cortés, Jorge. "Growth Rates of Eight Species of Scleractinian
Corals in the Eastern Pacific (Costa Rica)." Bulletin of Marine Science 44 (3):
1186-1194 (1989).

. "Coral Reef Community Structure at Cafio Island, Pacific Costa Rica."
Marine Ecology 10 (1): 23-41 (1989).

Guzman, Héctor M. and Obando, Vilma L. "Diversidad y Abundancia Diaria Estacional
del Zooplancton Marino de la Isla del Cafio, Costa Rica." Revista de Biologia
Tropical 36 (1): 139-150 (1988).

Guzman, Héctor M. and Robertson, D. Ross. “Responses of a Corallivorous Pufferfish to
Mass Mortalities of Eastern Pacific Corals" (Abstract 155). Sixth International
Coral Reef Symposium Abstracts: 39 (1988).

"Population and Feeding Responses of the Corallivorous Putterfish Arothron
meleagnis to coral mortality in the Eastern Pacific. Marne Ecology 55 (2-3): 121-
131 (1989).

Herre, Edward Allen. "Coevolution of Reproductive Characteristics in 12 Species of New

World Figs and Their Pollinator Wasps." Experientia 45: 637-647 (1989).
"Theoretical Studies on Sex Ratio Evolution by Samuel Karlin and Sabin
Lessard" (Book review). Journal of Genetics 66 (2): 159-161 (1987).

Hogan, Kevin P. "Photosynthesis in Two Neotropical Palm Species." Functional Ecology
2 (3): 371-377 (1988).

Holness Carrasco, Daniel. Estimacién de la Biomasa y la Productividad de Hydmilla
verticillata (L.f.) Royle, en Dos Sitios de la Isla de Barro Colorado. Tesis, Escuela
de Biologta, Facultad de Ciencias Naturales y Exactas (Panama: Universidad de ©
Panama, 1989).
Howard, Jerome J. "Leafcutting Ant Diet Selection: The Role of Nutrients Water and
Secondary Chemistry." Ecology 68 (3): 503-505 (1987).

. “Leafcutting Ant Diet Selection: Relative Influence of Leaf Chemistry and
Physical Features." Ecology 69 (1): 250-260 (1988).

Howard, Jerome J., Cazin Jr., John and Wiemer, David F. "Toxicity of Terpenoid
Deterrents to the Leafcutting Ant Atta cephalotes and its Mutualistic Fungus."
Journal of Chemical Ecology 14 (1): 59-70 (1988).

Howden, Henry F. "A New Genus and Four New Species of New World Trichiinae
(Coleoptera: Scarabaeidae)." The Coleopterists Bulletin 42 (3): 241-250 (1988).

Howe, Henry F. "Scatter and Clump-Dispersal and Seedling Demography = Hypothesis
and Implications.". Oecologia 79 (3): 417-426 (1989).

Jackson, Jeremy B.C. “Does Ecology Matter?" Book review of Evolution and Escalation:
An Ecological History of Life, by Geerat J. Vermeij. Paleobiology 14 (3): 307-312
(1988).

Jackson, Jeremy B.C., Guzman, Héctor M. and Weil, Emesto. "Effects of a Major Oil
Spill on Subtidal Reef Corals along the Caribbean Coast of Panama” (Abstract 203).
Sixth International Coral Reef Symposium Abstracts: 51 (1988).

Jackson, J.B.C., Cubit, J.D., Keller, B.D., Batista, V., Burns, K., Caffey, H.M., Caldwell,
R.L., Garrity, $.D., Getter, C.D., Gonzdlez, C., Guzman, H.M., Kaufman, K.W.,
Knap, A.H., Levings, S.C., Marshall, M.J., Steger, R., Thompson, R.C. and Weil, E.
"Ecological Effects of a Major Oil Spill on Panamanian Coastal Marine
Comunities." Science 243 (6 January, 1989): 37-44.

Jiménez Mufioz, Yolanda del Carmen y Timm Peralta, Eyda Julieta. Estudio
Bacterioldgico de Playas de Anidacién de la Tortuga Marina Lepidochelys olivacea.
Tesis, Escuela de Biologia, Facultad de Ciencias Naturales y Exactas (Panama:
Universidad de Panama, 1989).

Joly, L.G., Guerra, S., Séptimo, R., Solis, P.N., Correa, Mireya, Gupta, M., Levy, S. and
Sandberg, F. "Ethnobotanical Inventory of Medicinal Plants Used by the Guaymi
Indians in Western Panama. Part I." Journal of Ethnopharmacology 20: 145-171
(1988).

Karr, James R. "Birds" in Tropical Rain Forest Ecosystems: 401-416. Edited by H. Lieth
and M.J.A. Werner (Amsterdam: Elsevier Science Publishers, 1989).

Keller, Bnan D. "On Evaluating Ecological Effects of a Major Oil Spill on the Caribbean
Coast of Panama" in Oil Spill Conference, Proceedings of the 20th Anniversary
Conference, February 13-16, 1989: 578 (Washington, D.C.: American Petroleum
Institute, Publication 4479, 1989).

Kilar, John A. and Norris, James N. "Composition, Export, and Import of Drift Vegetation
on a Tropical, Plant-Dominated, Fringing-Reef Platform (Caribbean Panama)." Coral
Reefs 7 (2): 93-103 (1988).

Kitajima, Kaoru and Augspurger, Carol K. "Seed and Seedling Ecology of a Monocarpic
Tropical Tree, Tachigalia versicolor." Ecology 70 (4): 1102-1114 (1989).

Kite, Geoffrey C., Fellows, Linda E., Fleet, George W.J., Liu, Paul S., Scofield, Anthony
M. and Smith, Neal G. "a - Homonojirimycin [2,6 - Dodepxy - 2,6 - Imono - D -
Glycero - L - Gulo - Heptitol] from Omphalea diandra L.: Isolation and
Glucosidase Inhibition." Tetrahedron Letters 29 (49): 6483-6486 (1988).

Knowlton, Nancy. "Coral Bleaching in Panama and Considerations for the Future." Mass
Bleaching of Coral Reefs in the Caribbean: A Research Strategy, National Undersea
Research Program Research Report 88 (2): 35-37 (1988).

. "A Coral Reef Directory" (Book review). Trends in Ecology and Evolution
4 (10): 305-306 (1989).

Knowlton, Nancy, Lang, Judith C. and Keller, Brian D. "Predation on Caribbean Staghorn
Coral - Threshold Models and Their Implications” (Abstract 220). 6th International
Coral Reef Symposium Abstracts: 55 (1988).

Kursar, Thomas A. "Evaluation of Soil Respiration and soil CO, Concentration in a
Lowland Moist Forest in Panama." Plant and Soil 113: 21-29 (1989).

Laguna, Jorge E. "“Euraphia eastropacensis (Cirripedia, Chthamalodea), A New Species of
Barnacle from the Tropical Easter Pacific: Morphological and Electrophoretic
Comparisons with Euraphia rhizophorae (deOliveira) from the Tropical Eastern
Atlantic and Molecular Evolutionary Implications." Pacific Science 41 (1-4):
132-140 (1987).

Lamela Apolayo, Deisa Piedad y Vivero Hamilton, Enc. Macroinvertebrados Asociados a
Hydrmilla verticillata en el Lago Gatin. Tesis, Escuela de Biologta, Facultad de
Ciencias Naturales y Exactas (Panama: Universidad de Panama, 1989).

Leigh, Jr., Egbert Giles. "The Evolution of Individuality, by Leo W. Buss" (Book review).
The Condor 91 (1): 223-225 (1989).

. "Foraging Theory, by D.W. Stephens and J.R. Krebs" (Book review). The
Condor 91 (1): 222-223 (1989).
. "Natural Selection in the Wild, by John A. Endler" (Book review). The
Condor 90 (1): 279-284 (1988).
Lessios, Harilaos A. "Effects of Caribbean Echinoids on Coral Recruitment and

Survivorship" (Abstract). 6th International Coral Reef Symposium: 62 (1988).
"Mass Mortality of Diadema antillarum in the Caribbean: What Have We

Learned?" Annual Review of Ecology and Systematics 19: 371-393 (1988).
"Population Dynamics of Diadema antillarum (Echinodermata: Echinoidea)
Following Mass Mortality in Panama." Marine Biology 99: 515-526 (1988).

Liesner, Ronald L. and D’Arcy, William G. "Two New Species of Inga Leguminosae)
from Panama." Annals of the Missouri Botanical Garden 75 (1): 385-388 (1988).

McKinney, F.K. and Jackson, Jeremy B.C. Bryozoan Evolution (Boston: Unwin Hyman,
1989).

McMillan, Calvin. "Seed Germination and Seedling Development of Halophila decipiens
Ostenfeld (Hydrocharitaceae) from Panama." Aquatic Botany 31: 169-176 (1988)

"The Seed Reserve of Halophila decipiens Ostenfeld (Hydrocharitaceae) in
Panama." Aquatic Botany 31: 177-182 (1988).

McMillan, Calvin and Soong, Keryea. "An Annual Cycle Flowering, Fruiting and Seed
Reserve for Halophila decipiens Ostenfeld (Hydrocharitaceae) in Panama." Aquatic
Botany 34: 375-379 (1989).

McPherson, Gordon. "A New Species of Vantanea (Humiriaceae) from Panama." Annals
of the Missoun Botanical Garden 75 (3): 1148-1149 (1988).

. "New and Noteworthy Taxa from Panama." Annals of the Missouri
Botanical Garden 75 (1): 373-378 (1988).

May, M.L. and Knoff, K.W. "Neocordulia campana Spec. Nov., A New Species of
Dragonfly from Panama (Anisoptera: Corduliidae)." Odontologica 17 (1): 33-44
(1988).

176
Miller, David L., Leonard, Paul M., Hughes, Robert M., Karr, James R., Moyle, Peter B.,
Schrader, Lynn H., Thompson, Bruce A., Daniels, Robert A., Fausch, Kurt D.,
Fitzhugh, Gary A., Gammon, James R., Halliwell, David B., Angermeier, Paul L.
and Orth, Donald J. "Regional Applications of an Index of Biotic Integrity for Use
in Water Resource Management." Fisheries 13 (5): 12-20 (1988).

Miller, James S. "A Revised Treatment of Boraginaceae for Panama." Annals of the
Missouri Botanical Garden 75 (2): 456-521 (1988).

Milton, Katharine and Jenness, Robert. "Ascorbic Acid Content of Neotropical Plant Parts
Available to Wild Monkeys and Bats." Experientia 43 (3): 339-342 (1987).

Mitchell, J., Bort, John and Sabella J. "Children’s Perceptions of Aging Adults: An
Exploration of Differences in Caribbean Panama." Journal of Cross-Cultural
Gerontology 2 (4): 297-320 (1987).

Morin, James G. and Cohen, Anne C. "Two New Luminescent Ostracodes of the Genus
Vargula (Myodocopida: Cypridinidae) from The San Blas Region of Panama."
Journal of Crustacean Biology 8 (4): 620-638 (1988).

Morton, Eugene S. and Greenberg, Rusell. "The Outlook for Migratory Songbirds:
"Future Shok"” for Birdirs.". American Birds 43 (1): 178-183. (Spring 1989).

Padilla, Diana K. “Algal Structural Defenses: Form and Calcification in Resistance to
Tropical Limpets.” Ecology 70 (4): 835-842 (1989).

Paz S., Nicolas. "Ecologia: y Aspectos del Comportamiento en Linothele sp. (Araneae,
Dipluridae)." Journal of Arachnology 16 (1): 5-22 (1988).

Piperno, Dolores. "The Application of Phytolith Analysis to Paleoethnobotany and
Paleoecology in the American Tropics” (Abstract). Annual Meeting of the Society
for American Archaeology (1989).

. "Human Paleoecology in the Humid Tropics of Panama" (Abstract). First
Joint Archaeological Congress. (Baltimore, Maryland, 1989).

"Non-Affluent Foragers: Resource Availability, Seasonal Shortages and the
Emergence of Agriculture in Panamanian Forests" in Foraging and Farming: The
Evolution of Plant Exploitation: 538-554. Edited by D. Harris and G. Hillman
(London: Unwin-Hyman, 1989).

"The Occurrence of Phytoliths in the Reproductive Structures of Tropical
Angiosperms and Their Significance in Tropical Plaeocology, Paleoethnobotany, and
Systematics." Review of Palaeobotany and Palynology (1989).

. "The Ongins and Development of Food Production in Pacific Panama” in
Development of Hunting-Fishing-Gathering Societies on the Central and South
America Pacific Coast. Edited by Michael Blake. Proceedings of the Circum
Pacific Prehistory Conference (Washington: Washington State University Press,
1989)

Pratt, Stephen C. "Recruitment and Other Communication Behavior in the Ponerine Ant
Ectatomma ruidum."” Ethology 81: 313-331 (1989).

Pringle, C.M., Naiman, R.J., Bretschko, G., Karr, James R., Oswood, M.W., Webster J.R.,
Welcomme, R.L. and Winterbourn, M.J. "Patch Dynamics in Lotic Systems - The
Stream as a Mosaic." Journal of the North American Benthological Society 7 (4):
503-524 (1988).

Ragland, H.C. and Fischer, Eric A. "Internal Fertilization and Male Parental Care in the
Scalyhead Sculpin, Artedius barringtoni." Copeia 1987 (4): 1059-1062 (1987).

Rand, A. Stanley, Font, Enrique, Ramos, Diniz, Werner, Dagmar I., and Bock, Brian C.
"Home Range in Green Iguana (Iguana iguana) in Panama.” Copeia 1989 (1): 217-
221 (1989).
Reed, Jonathan R. "Inca Terms in the Bay of Panama During the 1982-1983 El] Nino
Event." American Birds 42 (2): 172-173 (1988).

Robertson, D. Ross. "Settlement and Population Dynamics of Abudefduf saxatilis on Patch
Reefs in Caribbean Panama" (Abstract 350). Sixth International Coral Reef
Symposium Abstracts: 88 (1988).

. "The Surgeonfish Acanthurus lineatus grows hedgerows of Macroalgae."
Reef Sites (1989).

Robertson, D. Ross and Brawn, Jeffrey D. "Variation in Settlement by Caribbean
Damselfishes: How Much Due to Variation in Larval Production?" (Abstract 351).
Sixth International Coral Reef Symposium Abstracts: 88 (1988).

Rodda, Gordon, Bock, Brian, Burghardt, Gordon and Rand, A. Stanley. "Techniques for
Identifying Lizard Individuals at a Distance Reveal Influences of Handling." Copeia
1988 (4): 905-913 (1988).

Rose, Gary B., Zellick, Randy D. and Rand, A. Stanley. 1988. “Auditory Processing of
Temporal Information in a Neotropical Frog is Independent of Signal Intensity."
Ethology 77: 330-336 (1988).

Roubik, David W. "Biogeography and Taxonomy of Honey Bees, by Friedrich Ruttner”
(Book review). American Scientist 77: 82 (1989).

. Ecology and Natural History of Tropical Bees. (New York: Cambridge
University, Press, 1989) 514 pp.

Rubinoff, Ira. "Prdlogo/Preface" in Descornendo la Cortina Verde: FEvolucié6n de la
Biologia Tropical En Panama. Parting the Green Curtain: The Evolution of
Tropical Biology in Panama, by G.R. Angehr: ili-iv. Panama, Smithsonian Tropical
Research Institute (Anaconda Press, 1989).

. "Tax Rich Nations, Save the Jungle." International Wildlife 18 (3): 24
(1988).

"The Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute." Environment 31 (5) (1989).

Ryan, Michael J. "Constraints and Patterns in the Evolution of Anuran Acoustic
Communication" in The Evolution of the Amphibian Auditory System, Chapter
Twenty Eight: 637-677. Edited by Bernd Fritzsch, Michael J. Ryan, Walter
Wilczynski, Thomas E. Hetherington and Wolfgang Walkowiak (New York: John
Wiley and Sons, 1988).

Ryan, Michael J. "Energy, Calling, and Selection.’
(1988).

Schuup, Eugene W. "Factors Affecting Post-Dispersal Seed Survival in a Tropical Forest."
Oecologia 76 (4): 525-530 (1988).

Schuup, Eugene W., Howe, Henry F., Augspurger, Carol K. and Levey, Douglas J.
"Arrival and Survival in Tropical Treefall Gaps." Ecology 70 (3): 562-564.
Siemens, Alfred H., Hebda, Richard J., Navarrete Hernandez, Mario, Piperno, Dolores R.,
Stein, Julie K. and Zold Baez, Manuel G. "Evidence for a Cultivar and A
Chronology from Patterned Wetlands in Central Veracruz, Mexico." Science 242

(4875): 105-107 (1988).

Silva F., Jorge. “Martin y Cuervo en Extrafas Interacciones." La Estrella de Panama
(Marzo 14, 1989): B1.

Smith III, Thomas J., Chan, Hung T., McIvor, Carole C. and Robblee, Michael B.
“Comparisons of Seed Predator in Tropical, Tidal Forests from Three Continents."
Ecology 70 (1): 146-151 (1989).

Smythe, Nicholas. "Seed Survival in the Palm Astrocaryum standleyanum: Evidence for
Dependence Upon its Seed Dispersers." Biotropica 21 (1): 50-56 (1989).

American Zoologist 28: 885-898

178
Steger, Rick. "Effects of Refuges and Recruitment on Gonodactylid Stomatopods, A Guild
of Mobile Prey." Ecology 68 (5): 1520-1533 (1987).

Sternberg, L. da S.L., Mulkey, S.S. and Wright, S. Joseph. "Ecological Interpretation of
Leaf Carbon Isotope Ratios: Influence of Respired Carbon Dioxide." Ecology
70(5): 1317-1324.

Sweatman, Hugh. "Field Evidence that Settling Coral Reef Fish Larvae Detect Resident
Fishes Using Dissolved Chemical Cues." Journal of Experimental Marine Biology
and Ecology 124 (4): 163-174 (1988).

Tanaka, Seiji. "Field Work in Panama, Central America - On Adult Diapause in
Stenotarsus rotundus (Endomychidae) - 1." Insectarium 25: 222-231 (1988).

"Field Work in Panama, Central America - On Adult Diapause in
Stenotarsus rotundus (Endomychidae) - 2." Insectarium 25: 256-265 (1988).

"Field Work in Panama, Central America - On Adult Diapause in
Stenotarsus rotundus (Endomychidae) - 3." Insectarium 25: 282-294 (1988).

"Field Work in Panama, Central America - On Adult Diapause in
Stenotarsus rotundus (Endomychidae) - 4." Insectarium 25: 330-338 (1988).

"Field Work in Panama, Central America - On Adult Diapause in
Stenotarsus rotundus (Endomychidae) - 5." Insectarium 25: 356-362 (1988).

"Tropical Seed Bugs (Ropalidae) Dropping Effects from the Canopy of
Forest in Panama." Insectarium 25 (5): 148-153.

Tanaka, Seiji, Denlinger, David L. and Wolda, Henk. "Seasonal Changes in the
Photoperiodic Response Regulating Diapause in a Tropical Beetle, Stenotarsus
rotundus." Journal of Insect Physiology 34 (12): 1135-1142 (1988).

Trainer, Jill M. "Behavioral Associations of Song Types During Aggressive Interactions
Among Male Yellow-Rumped Caciques." The Condor 89 (4): 731-738 (1987).

"Cultural Evolution in Song Dialects of Yellow-Rumped Caciques in
Panama.” Ethology 80: 190-204 (1989).

Van der Weff, Henk. "Eight New Species and One New Combination of Neotropical
Lauraceae." Annals of the Missoun Botanical Garden 75 (2): 402-419 (1988).
Vollrath, Fitz. "Spider Growth as an Indicator of Habitat Quality." Bulletin of the British

Arachnological Society 7 (7): 217-219 (1988).

Weislo, William T., West-Eberhard, Mary Jane and Eberhard, William G. "Natural History
and Behavior of a Prmitively Social Wasp, Auplopus semialatus, and Its Parasite,
Irenangelus eberhardi (Hymenoptera: Pompilidae).". Journal of Insect Behavior 1
(3): 247-260 (1988).

Weinberg, James R. and Starczak, Victoria R. "Morphological Differences and Low
Dispersal Between Local Populations of the Tropical Beach Isopod, Exciolana
braziliensis.” Bulletin of Marine Science 42 (2): 296-309 (1988).

Weidenfeld, David A. Ecomorphology and Foraging Behavior of the Yellow Warbler
(Dendroica petechia). Ph.D. dissertation, College of Arts and Sciences. The Florida
State University (1988).

Wellington, Gerard M. and Victor, Benjamin C. "Variation in Components of Reproductive
Success in an Undersaturated Population of Coral-Reef Damselfish: A Field
Perspective." The American Naturalist 131 (4): 588-601 (1988).

Wells, Kentwood D. "Vocal Communication in a Neotropical Treefrog, Hyla ebraccata:
Responses of Males to Graded Aggressive Calls." Copeia 1989 (2): 461-466 (1989).

West, Lani. "Prey Selection by the Tropical Snail Thais melones: A Study of
Interindividual Variation." Ecology 69 (6): 1839-1854 (1988).

West-Eberhard, Mary Jane. “Kin Recognition in Animals." Evolution 43 (3): 703-705
(1989).

"Observations of Xenorphynchium nitidulum (Fabricius) Hymenoptera,
Eumeninae), A Primitively Social Wasp." Psyche 94 (3-4): 317-323 (1987).

. "Phenotypic Plasticity and "Genetic" Theories of Insect Sociality" in
Evolution of Social Behavior and Integrative Levels: 123-133. Edited by E. Tobach
and G. Greenberg (Hillsdale, N.J.: Erlbaum Press, 1988).

"Phenotypic Plasticity and the Ongins of Diversity." Annual Review of
Ecology and Systematics 20: 249-278 (1989).

"Scent-Trail Diversion, a Novel Defense Against Ants by Tropical Social
Wasps." Biotropica 21 (2) (1989).

West-Eberhard, Mary Jane and Eberhard, William G. "Sexual and Social Selection and the
Species-Specificity of Insect Signals." Proceedings of the XVII International

ss of Entomolo Vancouver, Bnitish lombia, Canada: 205 (1988).

Wheeler, Diana E. and Levings, Sally C. "The Impact of the 1983 El Nifio Drought on
the Litter Arthropods of Barro Colorado Island, Panama," in Advances in
Myrmecology, Chapter 19: 309-326. Edited by Trager, James C. New York: EJ.
Brill (1988).

Williams-Linera, Guadalupe. Development of Tropical Forest Edge Vegetation. Ph.D.
dissertation, (Gainesville: University of Florida, 1989).

Wilczynski, Walter and Ryan, Michael J. "Microgeographic Variation in the Acoustic
Communication System of the Cricket Frog" (Abstract, 13). 17th Annual Meeting of
the Society for Neuroscience, New Orleans, Louisiana, November 16-21, 1987: 869
(1987).

. "The Amphibian Auditory System as a Model for Neurobiology, Behavior,
and Evolution" in The Evolution of the Amphibian Auditory System, Chapter One:
3-12. Edited by Bernd Fnitzsch, Michael J. Ryan, Walter Wilczynski, Thomas E.
Hetherington and Wolfgang Walkowiak (New York: John Wiley and Sons, 1988).

Williams, Norris H. and Whitten, W. Mark. "Stanhopea panamensis, A New Species from
Central Panama (Orchidaceae)." Lindleyana 3 (1): 9-11 (1988).

Windsor, Donald M., Morrison, D.W., Estribi, M.A. and De Leén, B. "Phenology of Fruit
and Leaf Production by ’Strangler’ Figs on Barro Colorado Island, Panama."
Experientia 45: 647-653 (1989).

Wolda, Henk. "Energy Requirements of Tropical Insects During an Adverse Season."
Nutnoonal Ecology of Insects and Environment: 1-9 (1989).

. "Insect Seasonality, Why?" Annual Review of Ecology and Systematics 19:
1-18 (1988).

Zeh, David W. “Aggression, Density, and Sexual Dimorphism in Chernetid
Pseudoscorpions (Arachnida: Pseudoscorpionida)." Evolution 41 (5): 1072-1087
(1987).

. "Sexual Selection" (Book review of Testing the Alternatives, by J.W.
Bradbury and M.B. Andersson, eds.). American Scientist 77: 181-182 (1989).

Zeh, David W. and Zeh, Jeanne A. "Condition-Dependent Sex Ormaments and Field Tests
of Sexual-Selection Theory." American Naturalist 132 (3): 454-459 (1988).

Zeh, David W., Zeh, Jeanne A. and Smith, Robert L. "Ovipositors, Amnions and Eggshell
Architecture in the Diversification of Terrestrial Arthropods." The Quarterly Review
of Biology 64 (2): 147-168 (1989).

180
Zimmerman, Jess K. and Aide, T. Mitchell. "Patterns of Flower and Fruit Production in
the Orchid Aspasia principissa Reichb.". American Journal of Botany 74 (5): 661
(1987).

Zimmerman, Jess K., Roubik, David W. and Ackerman, James D. "Asynchronous
Phenologies of a Neotropical Orchid and its Euglossine Bee Pollinator.". Ecology 70
(4): 1192-1195 (1989).

ANACOSTIA MUSEUM

Dorsey, William, Delilah W. Pierce, and Peter L. Robinson, Jr.
Inspiration, 1961-1989. Smithsonian Institution Press, 1989.

ARCHIVES OF AMERICAN ART

Brown, Robert F. "Regional Office Report--New England." Archives of
American Art Journal, 27(4); 28(1-3).

Karlstrom, Paul. "Archives of American Art: The Memory of Art in America."
The Newsletter of the American Federation of Arts, 2(2). Summer 1989.

[Exhibition catalogue] The Spirit in the Stone: The

Visionary Art of James W. Washington, Jr. University of Washington
Press and Bellevue Art Museum, 1989.

{Exhibition catalogue] "Introduction." USArt 1989.
"Regional Office Report--West Coast." Archives of American
Art Journal,” 17:(4).* -28(1=3)))<

Kirwin, Liza. The Papers of African American Artists. Archives of
American Art, Smithsonian Institution, 1989.

"Regional Office Report--Southeast." Archives of American
Art Journals. (274 )3° 28(-1=3)).
Kirwin, Liza and Margaret Kinzer. "Drawings and Sketchbooks in the
Collection of the Archives of American Art." Drawing, (Jan-Feb 1989):

97-102".
McNaught, William. "Regional Office Report--New York." Archives of
American Art Journal, 27(4); 28(1-3).
Pacini, Marina. "The Philadelphia Arts Documentation Project." Archives of
American Art Journal, 27(4):2-4.
"Who but the Arts Council." Archives of American Art
Journal, 27(4):9-23.
Regional Office Report--Philadelphia." Archives of American
Art Journal, 27(4); 28(1-3).
Stover, Catherine. "James L. Claghorn, Philadelphia Collector." Archives
of American Art Journal, 27(4).
ARTHUR M. SACKLER GALLERY and FREER GALLERY OF ART

Beach, Milo C., “Art in Context," Humanities, March 1989.

"The Mughal Artist." In Making Things in South Asia (Michael
Meister, ed.), Philadelphia: University of Pennsylvania Press, 1989.

Chase, W. Thomas, III. “Lacquer Examination and Treatment at the Freer
Gallery of Art: Some Case Histories," in Urushi; Proceedings of the
Urushi Study Group, June 10-27, 1985, Tokyo, Getty Conservation In-
stitute, Marina Del Rey, California, 1988.

; Jett, Paul; Koob, Stephen P.; and Norman, Jane. "The Treatment of a
Chinese Red Lacquer Stationery Box." Preprints of the 1988 TIC Confer-
ence on Far Eastern Art, London: IIC, 1988.

, and Veloz, Nicolas, "Methods for Cleaning Outdoor Sculptures,"
Technology and Conservation, 1989.

Cort, Louise, "The Changing Fortunes of Three Archaic Japanese Textiles," in
Cloth and Human Experience. Studies in Ethnographic Inquiry.
Washington: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1989.

, "The Role of the Potter in South Asia,” in Making Things in South
Asia: The Role of Artist and Craftsman. Proceedings of the South Asian
Seminar 1985-86, University of Pennsylvania. Philadelphia: University
of Pennsylvania Press, 1989.

, "Looking with the Heart," Studio Potter, vol. 17, no. 1 (Winter 1988).

FitzHugh, Elisabeth West, "Study of Pigments on Selected Paintings from the
Vever Collection," in Glenn D. Lowry and Milo C. Beach, An Annotated and
Illustrated Checklist of the Vever Collection, Arthur M. Sackler
Gallery, Washington, D.C., and University of Washington Press, Seattle
and London, 1988, pp. 425-432.

Fu, Shen C.Y., “Chang Dai-chien’s Figure Paintings of Chinese Opera
Characters," Hsiung Shih Art Monthly, Taipei, no. 218 (April 1989), 56-
61.

, "Discussing the Paintings of Fu Chuang-fu on His 80th Birthday,"
Hsiung Shih Art Monthly, Taipei, no. 217 (March 1989,), 109-118.

Gunter, Ann C., “Sculptural Dedications at Labraunda,” in Architecture and
Society in Hecatomnid Caria. Proceedings of a conference in Uppsala and
Stockholm, October 1987. Acta Universitatis Upsaliensis. Boreas:
Uppsala Studies in Ancient Mediterranean and Near Eastern Civilizations,
1989.

Jett, Paul, “The Examination and Treatment of Ancient Silver," Papers of the

Cultural Property. Tokyo: Tokyo National Institute of Cultural
Property, 1989.
"An Example of the Use of Brass in Chinese Lacquer Ware," Archives of

Asian Art, 1989.

Kecskes, Lily, “Ink: A Scholar’s Tool and Work of Art," Calligraphy Review,
vol. 6, no. 2 (Winter 1988). ee

Koob, Stephen, "The Conservation and Restoration of Red-figure Stampos No. 48-
30-3," Expedition, Vol. 30, no. 2, 1988, pp. 29-30.

Lawton, Thomas. “Review of Xu Bangda, Gu shu hua wei e kao ban [Examination
and identification of the forging of ancient calligraphy and painting}."

Ars Orientalis, XVII (1988).
Lowry, Glenn D., "The House of Timur," Asian Art II (Spring, 1989).

, with Milo C. Beach, An Illustrated and Annotated Checklist of the
Vever Collection, Washington, D.C.: Arthur M. Sackler Gallery; and

Seattle and London: University of Washington Press, 1988.
, and Susan Nemazee, A Jeweler’s Eye: Islamic Arts of the Book from the

Vever Collection. Washington, D.C.: Arthur M. Sackler Gallery, and
Seattle, Wash.: University of Washington Press, 1988.

, and Thomas W. Lentz, Timur and the Princely Vision: Persian Art and

Culture in the Fifteenth Century. Washington, D.C.: Arthur M. Sackler
Gallery, and Los Angeles: Los Angeles County Museum of Art, 1989.

Nielsen, Kim. A photograph in Visions and Prophecy from the Time-Life Book
Series, Mysteries of the Unknown.

Nishio, Yoshiyuki, "Japanese Natural Pigments," in New Directions of in Paper
Conservation: Postprints of the Institute of Paper Conservation tenth
annual conference, 1986 (Oxford, England, 1989)

Snyder, Janet G., “Appendix 10: Study of the Paper of Selected Paintings from
the Vever Collection," in Glenn D. Lowry and Milo C. Beach, An Annotated

Gallery, Washington, D.C., and University of Washington Press, Seattle

and London, 1988, pp. 433-440.

Stuart, Jan. "Bats of Good Fortune," Zoogoer, vol. 18, no. 4, July-August,
1989, p. 19, to celebrate the reopening of the bat cave at the National
Zoological Park.

Winter, John, and Emile Joel, "‘Lead White’ in Japanese Paintings (II) --
Measurements of Lead-Isotope Ratios," Kobunkazai no Kagaku, vol. 33,

1988, pp. 33-44.
Yonemura, Ann, "Art and Authority: A Tokugawa Palanquin,” Asian Art vol. 2,

no. 1 (Winter, 1989).
, "Splendour and Supremacy: Lacquer for the Tokugawa," in The Tokugawa

Collection: The Japan of the Shoguns. Montreal, Canada: The Montreal
Museums of Fine Arts, 1989.
CONSERVATION ANALYTICAL LABORATORY

Arah, C.O., D.K. McNamara, H.M. Hand, and M.F. Mecklenburg. "The
Correlation Between Adhesive Stress Relaxation and Joint
Performance," in Tomorrow's Materials Today, Science of

Advanced Materials and Process Engineering Series 34, p.
1434, Society for the Advancement of Materials and Process

Engineering, 1989.
- "The Correlation Between Adhesive Stress Relaxation
and Joint Performance," SAMPE Journal 25(4) (1989):11-14.
Arah, C.0., H.M. Hand, D.K. McNamara, and M.F. Mecklenburg,
"Techniques for Screening Adhesives for Structural
Applications," Journal of Adhesion Science and Technology
3(4) (1989) :261.
Ballard, Mary W., and Virginia Pledger. "Mannequins: A Re-
examination," American Institute for Conservation of
Historic and Artistic Works, Abstracts of Papers Presented

at the Seventeenth Annual Meeting, p. 29, Cincinnati, May
31-June 4, 1989.

Baker, M.T., D. van der Reyden, and N. Ravenal. "Analysis and
Characterization of Some Paper Coatings by FTIR-
Microspectroscopy," American Institute for Conservation of
Historic and Artistic Works, Abstracts of Papers Presented

at_ the Seventeenth Annual Meeting, p. 54, Cincinnati, May
31-June 4, 1989.

Bishop, Ronald L., and Hector Neff. "Compositional Data Analysis
in Archaeology," in Archaeological Chemistry IV, ed. Ralph
O. Allen, pp. 57-86, Advances in Chemistry Series 220,
American Chemical Society, Washington DC.

"Multivariate Analysis of Compositional Data in
Archaeology," in Archaeological Chemistry IV, ed. Ralph O.
Allen, pp. 576-586, Advances in Chemistry Series 220,
American Chemical Society, Washington, D.C., 1989.

Bishop, R.L., A. Demarest, and R.J. Sharer. "Chemical Analysis
and the Interpretation of Late Preclassic Intersite Ceramic
Patterns in the Southeast Highlands of Mesoamerica," in New
Frontiers in the Archaeology of the Pacific Coast of
Southern Mesoamerica, eds. F. Bove and Lynette Heller, pp.
135-146. Arizona State University Anthropological Research
Papers, No. 39, 1989.

Bishop, R.L., V. Canouts, S. De Atley, A. Qoyawayma, and C.W.
Aikins. "The Formation of Ceramic Analytical Groups: Hopi
Pottery Production and Exchange, A.D. 1300 - 1600," Journal
of Field Archaeology 15(1988) :317-338.

Blackman, M. James, Sophie Mery, and Rita Wright. "Production
and Exchange of Ceramics on the Oman Peninsula from the
Perspective of Hili," Journal of Field Archaeology,

16(1) (1989): 61-78.

Brostoff Malikayil, Lynn, and Timothy Vitale. "A Study into the
Effects of Solvents on Paper," American Institute for
Conservation of Historic and Artistic Works, Abstracts of

Papers Presented at the Seventeenth Annual Meeting, p. 57,
Cincinnati, May 31-June 4, 1989.

184
Erhardt, David, and Jia-Sun Tsang. "Oil Painting: History vs.

Technology," American Institute for Conservation of Historic

and Artistic Works, Abstracts of Papers Presented at the
Seventeenth Annual Meeting, p. 38, Cincinnati, May 31-June
4, 1989.

Erhardt, David.

Abbey Newsletter 13(3) (1989) :38-39.

"Paper Degradation: A Comparison of Industrial and

Archival Concerns," in TAPPI Proceedings: 1988 TAPPI
Preservation Symposium, pp. 83-91, TAPPI Press, Atlanta,

1988.

Goodway, Martha, and Robert M. Fisher. "Phosphorus in Low Carbon

Lron':

Its Beneficial Properties," Historical Metallurgy,

22(1988):21-23.
Goodway, Martha. "History of Casting," Metals Handbook, 9th
edition, volume 15, pp. 15-23, Casting, Metals Park, OH.

"Materials Choices for the Statue of Liberty," ASM

News 20(6) (1989) :6.

"News of Archaeometallurgy," Society for

Archaeological Sciences Newsletter 11(2) (1988) :5-6.

"News of Archaeometallurgy," Society for

Archaeological Sciences Newsletter 11(3) (1988) :6-7.

"News of Archaeometallurgy,™" Society for
"News of Archaeometallurgy," Society for

Archaeological Sciences Newsletter 11(3) (1988) :6-7.

"News of Archaeometallurgy,™" Society for
"News of Archaeometallurgy," Society for

Archaeological Sciences Newsletter 11(3) (1988) :6-7.

"News of Archaeometallurgy,™" Society for
"News of Archaeometallurgy," Society for

Archaeological Sciences Newsletter 11(3) (1988) :6-7.

"News of Archaeometallurgy,™" Society for
"News of Archaeometallurgy," Society for

Archaeological Sciences Newsletter 11(3) (1988) :6-7.

"News of Archaeometallurgy,™" Society for
"News of Archaeometallurgy," Society for

Archaeological Sciences Newsletter 11(3) (1988) :6-7.

"News of Archaeometallurgy,™" Society for
"News of Archaeometallurgy," Society for

Archaeological Sciences Newsletter 11(3) (1988) :6-7.

"News of Archaeometallurgy,™" Society for
"News of Archaeometallurgy," Society for

Archaeological Sciences Newsletter 11(3) (1988) :6-7.

"News of Archaeometallurgy,™" Society for
"News of Archaeometallurgy," Society for

Archaeological Sciences Newsletter 11(3) (1988) :6-7.

"News of Archaeometallurgy,™" Society for
"News of Archaeometallurgy," Society for

Archaeological Sciences Newsletter 11(3) (1988) :6-7.

"News of Archaeometallurgy,™" Society for
"News of Archaeometallurgy," Society for

Archaeological Sciences Newsletter 11(3) (1988) :6-7.

"News of Archaeometallurgy,™" Society for
"News of Archaeometallurgy," Society for

Archaeological Sciences Newsletter 11(3) (1988) :6-7.

"News of Archaeometallurgy,™" Society for
"News of Archaeometallurgy," Society for

Archaeological Sciences Newsletter 11(3) (1988) :6-7.

"News of Archaeometallurgy,™" Society for
"News of Archaeometallurgy," Society for

Archaeological Sciences Newsletter 11(3) (1988) :6-7.

"News of Archaeometallurgy," Society for

"Relationship of Reaction Rates to Temperature,"
