arene
eat

i
}

i
Gilt

Ma
CUTE TETTVEATTE

SS aa a
Ye

FS

illness,

~ Smithsonian Year

1975
Smithsonian Year - 1975
Visitors to the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden in June not only
saw Aristide Maillol’s Nymph but also this wild mallard duck, proudly swim-
ming with her young. A pair of mallards surprisingly had made the garden
their home.

Smithsonian Year - 1975

ANNUAL REPORT OF THE
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
FOR THE YEAR ENDED
JUNE 30, 1975

Smithsonian Institution Press + City of Washington: 1975
Smithsonian Publication 6111

Library of Congress Catalog Card Number 67-7980

For sale by the Superintendent of Documents, U.S. Government Printing Office
Washington, D.C., 20402—Price $8.30 (paper cover) Stock Number: 047—000—00335-1

Smithsonian Year + 1975
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

The Smithsonian Institution was created by act of Congress in 1846
in accordance with the terms of the will of James Smithson of Eng-
land, who in 1826 bequeathed his property to the United States of
America “to found at Washington, under the name of the Smith-
sonian Institution, an establishment for the increase and diffusion
of knowledge among men.” After receiving the property and accept-
ing the trust, Congress incorporated the Institution in an “establish-
ment,” whose statutory members are the President, the Vice
President, the Chief Justice, and the heads of the executive depart-
ments, and vested responsibility for administering the trust in the
Smithsonian Board of Regents.

THE ESTABLISHMENT

Gerald R. Ford, President of the United States
Nelson A. Rockefeller, Vice President of the United States
Warren E. Burger, Chief Justice of the United States
Henry A. Kissinger, Secretary of State
William E. Simon, Secretary of Treasury
James R. Schlesinger, Secretary of Defense
Edward H. Levi, Attorney General
Stanley K. Hathaway, Secretary of Interior
Earl L. Butz, Secretary of Agriculture
Rogers C. B. Morton, Secretary of Commerce
John T. Dunlop, Secretary of Labor
Caspar W. Weinberger, Secretary of Health, Education and Welfare
Carla A. Hills, Secretary of Housing and Urban Development
William T. Coleman, Jr., Secretary of Transportation
Board of Regents and Secretary * June 30, 1975

REGENTS OF THE
INSTITUTION

EXECUTIVE
COMMITTEE

THE SECRETARY

UNDER SECRETARY

ASSISTANT
SECRETARIES

TREASURER
GENERAL COUNSEL

Warren E. Burger, Chief Justice of the United States, Chancellor
Nelson A. Rockefeller, Vice President of the United States
Frank E. Moss, Member of the Senate

Henry M. Jackson, Member of the Senate

Hugh Scott, Member of the Senate

George H. Mahon, Member of the House of Representatives
Elford A. Cederberg, Member of the House of Representatives
Sidney R. Yates, Member of the House of Representatives
John Paul Austin, citizen of Georgia

John Nicholas Brown, citizen of Rhode Island

William A. M. Burden, citizen of New York

Robert F. Goheen, citizen of New Jersey

Murray Gell-Mann, citizen of California

Caryl P. Haskins, citizen of Washington, D.C.

A. Leon Higginbotham, Jr., citizen of Pennsylvania

Thomas J. Watson, Jr., citizen of Connecticut

James E. Webb, citizen of Washington, D.C.

Warren E. Burger, Chancellor (Board of Regents)
William A. M. Burden

Caryl P. Haskins

James E. Webb (Chairman)

S. Dillon Ripley
Robert A. Brooks

David Challinor, Assistant Secretary for Science

Charles Blitzer, Assistant Secretary for History and Art
Paul N. Perrot, Assistant Secretary for Museum Programs
Julian T. Euell, Assistant Secretary for Public Service

T. Ames Wheeler

Peter G. Powers

vi

i19
130
132
142
152
156

167

171
173
t77
181
181
188
189
190
195
215
218
220

Smithsonian Year * 1975

CONTENTS

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
BOARD OF REGENTS AND SECRETARY
STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY
FINANCIAL REPORT

SCIENCE

Center for the Study of Man

Chesapeake Bay Center for Environmental Studies
Fort Pierce Bureau

National Air and Space Museum

National Museum of Natural History

National Zoological Park

Office of International Programs

Radiation Biology Laboratory

Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory
Smithsonian Science Information Exhange, Inc.
Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute

HISTORY AND ART

Archives of American Art

Cooper-Hewitt Museum of Decorative Arts and Design

Freer Gallery of Art

Hillwood

Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden
Joseph Henry Papers

National Armed Forces Museum Advisory Board
National Collection of Fine Arts

National Museum of History and Technology
National Portrait Gallery

Office of Academic Studies

Office of American Studies

vii
223

227
230
232.
234
238
239
240
243

249

Zoi
255
2ST,
260
265
269
273
283
285

289

289
303
310
310

313

318
33k
339

MUSEUM PROGRAMS

Conservation-Analytical Laboratory

National Museum Act Program

Office of Exhibits Central

Office of Museum Programs

Office of the Registrar

Smithsonian Institution Archives

Smithsonian Institution Libraries

Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service

PUBLIC SERVICE

Anacostia Neighborhood Museum

Division of Performing Arts

Office of Elementary and Secondary Education
Office of Public Affairs

Office of Smithsonian Symposia and Seminars
Reading Is Fundamental, Inc.

Smithsonian Associates

Smithsonian Magazine

Smithsonian Institution Press

ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT

Support Activities
Financial Services
Office of Audits

Smithsonian Women’s Council

WOODROW WILSON INTERNATIONAL CENTER FOR
SCHOLARS

JOHN F. KENNEDY CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS
NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART
APPENDICES

Vili
Smithsonian Year - 1975

STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY
Nineteenth-century lithograph of the original Smithsonian Building, frequently
referred to as the “Castle.”
Limits to Growth?

S: DILLON. RIPLEY

IT IS APPROPRIATE these days to attempt to guess what amount of
growth is prudent in an organization. In the United States growth
and development have been synonymous with “good” for lo these
many years. “Growth” stocks, corporate “growth,” “growth” in-
dustry—all have been phrases on the side of the angels. And indeed
growth is natural, a symbol of animate being. “Growth is the only
evidence of life,” as a Dr. Scott said to Cardinal Newman a cen-
tury or so ago.

If then growth of some sort is natural—a condition of being—
how can it be measured? At what level is it healthy as in arithmetic
growth? At what stage does it become out of control, raging, and
cancerous, as in exponential growth? A few years ago all growth
was said to be good, but with discussions on natural resources re-
flecting our new environmental consciousness frame of mind, peo-
ple the world over have been made aware of the finite quality of
certain stores of natural objects, such as oil or minerals, on the one
hand, and of the worldwide problem of human population growth
on the other. The book, Limits to Growth, presaged a levelling off
and decline of standards of living based on development, growth,
and concomitant expectations within a hundred years, accompanied
along the way by a series of small crashes as various raw materials
became nonexistent or economically unexploitable. Given these
prospects, no matter how much debate centers around the details or
the time schedule, the planners of the world, taking stock of the
wars and oil embargoes in the Middle East, have grown in-
creasingly uncertain of the future, and hesitate nowadays to sub-
scribe to the prognoses of pre-October 1973.
In this uncertain climate it seems appropriate to take stock and
measure our own Smithsonian growth over the past decade. In
approximate terms the annual federal budget for salaries and ex-
penses (nearly 80 percent of our total federal budget each year is
for operations) has increased from a bit over $17 million in fiscal
year 1965 to nearly $71 million in fiscal year 1975. At first glance
this addition of about $53.5 million over the period seems a striking
proportional increase, especially looking back over the previous
ten years.

However, roughly $23.5 million of the $53.5 million net increase
in the period, or about 44 percent of the total increase, is for un-
avoidable costs. For example, nearly $20 million of the net increase
in the period is for unavoidable payroll costs, such as legislated pay
increases, applying both to staff employed in fiscal year 1965, and
for additional employees subsequently authorized by the Congress.
(Even if applied just to fiscal year 1965 employment alone, the
cumulative effect of these pay increases would have raised our
operating costs by more than $15 million; since fiscal year 1965, pay
raises alone have raised the pay of salaried employees nearly 70
percent and wage employees an estimated 83 percent.) During this
same period, inflationary increases for items such as utilities, sup-
plies, travel, etc., have further increased costs to the Institution by
$3 to $4 million. Thus, well over 40 percent of the “growth” of the
Smithsonian in the past ten years has been due simply to rises in
the cost of living.

If this is so, then what of the roughly $30-million increase that
makes up the rest of our total of $53.5 million? Where has this
been spent and how? Of this real increase nearly $4 million has
been for major national events in celebration of the American
Revolution Bicentennial, a program which is temporary in nature
and which will phase out gradually over the next two years. The
other $26 million was authorized for the establishment of new
activities and for the growth of existing bureaux and offices, in-
cluding new staff, in the past ten years, but exclusive of their
legislated pay increases. Of this $26 million, more than $6 million
has been for new activities such as the Hirshhorn Museum, the
Anacostia Neighborhood Museum, the National Museum Act, the
Office of Computer Services, and some fifteen other new bureaux
and offices. The remaining $20 million has gone to strengthening

4 / Smithsonian Year 1975
i)
ac}
H
iss}
UO
ic)
Lol
3
2
=
|
17)
a
ae]
S|
o
g
3
i?)
wn
s
c
Lal
°
S
ie
Ww
I
aD
vo
SS
~
a
o
a
“ia
oP
Z

existing activities and programs in order to keep up with ap-
propriate standards for the museums and laboratories in our care.
A highly visible and representative illustration is the Air and Space
Museum, which has experienced large increases in staffing and
funding as it has prepared for operations in its new building au-
thorized by Congress. Less conspicuous has been a concerted effort
to make our vast natural history collections more accessible for
research by the application of computer technology and the de-
velopment of a more adequate level of technician support.

With the growth of state and federally supported university
laboratories, as well as the newer support for museums across the
land, it ill behooves the Smithsonian to fail to keep up, either in
salaries or in support activities. Otherwise our national obligations
would be severely jeopardized. Skilled and specialized people in
the museum and laboratory world are at a premium. There is
intense competition for their services, just as there is high demand
for particularly skilled teachers in the academic marketplace.

It is perhaps worthwhile to cast a glance at the directions toward
which our $6 million for new activities has been steered. In the
museum field, new activities cover a broad range. In art, the In-
stitution has added an entire new museum, the Hirshhorn, filling a
recognized gap in the Smithsonian’s offerings for public exhibit, a
need which had been identified since as far back as 1938 but never
previously acted upon. Thus, by acquiring the Hirshhorn collection
and the museum to house it, the Institution took one giant step
forward in a tangible intellectual sort of growth by adding a new
dimension of aesthetic appreciation to the Nation’s Capital. Al-
ready in the first nine months of its existence, the Hirshhorn has
lived up to its promise by receiving 1,620,540 visitors, making it
one of our most popular museums in Washington.

The Cooper-Hewitt collections of decorative arts in New York, a
most significant and growing department, has been added to our
art-related collections. The Anacostia Neighborhood Museum, a
new experiment in community relations and the fostering of tech-
nical museum training and art appreciation in a largely black
community, has been extremely successful and is now the recipient
of nearly a half-million dollars of annual federal operating funds.
The Archives of American Art is a new responsibility of the art
curatorship of the Institution, bringing to the Smithsonian a com-

6 / Smithsonian Year 1975
prehensive documentation of the papers and life histories of
American artists. Finally, the Smithsonian Traveling Exhibition
Service now receives federal support enabling it to present, in 1975,
498 exhibitions in forty-five states and seen by approximately four
million visitors.

In the realm of the sciences, environmental study receives sup-
port through the newly created Chesapeake Bay Center as well as
through the Environmental Sciences Program which, together with
the Research Awards Program, represent annual expenses of more
than $1 million. Additionally, the social sciences are represented
for the first time in the field of social anthropology through the
Center for the Study of Man. (History in the Museum of History
and Technology includes, of course, research in what could be
described as humanistic study as part of the social sciences.)

Finally, international programs, public information and orienta-
tion services, and equal opportunity and other important adminis-
trative services make up the rest. Thus of our $6 million for new
activities, 36 percent has gone to the arts, 20 percent to the sci-
ences, and about 33 percent to administering various services. The
remainder, nearly 11 percent, is accounted for by the technical
training grants program of the National Museum Act. This pro-
gram serves other museums and perhaps should not thus be re-
garded as support for the Smithsonian itself.

The private funds of the Institution have also grown sub-
stantially during this ten-year period, from a budget of $12.1 million
in fiscal year 1965 to $35.9 million in fiscal year 1975. As with our
federal appropriations, however, inflation of approximately 70
percent in the past ten years has cut heavily into the purchasing
power of the 1975 dollars, and again our real growth here has been
far less than it would seem. In 1965, for example, the Smithsonian
spent $9.1 million of federal grant and contract awards on various
research projects; in 1975 federal grant and contract expenditures,
once again exclusive of administrative expenses, were approxi-
mately $10.1 million. Deflated to 1965 dollars, however, it appears,
in real terms, the Smithsonian this year had available $3.2 million
less from these sources than ten years ago.

Aside from these grants and contracts, the private funds budget
has grown from $3.0 million to $25.7 million. This growth, al-
though also substantially diminished by inflation, does reflect the

Statement by the Secretary / 7
greater flexibility of private funds to begin new activities as op-
portunities arise—specifically it has allowed the expansion of the
Institution’s education “out reach” program through the National
Associates, spreading the values of our knowledge, research, ex-
hibits, and collections to citizens throughout the Nation. It has
allowed improvements also in services to area residents and to our
visitors to the Nation’s Capital. Included in these improvements are
a first experiment in a neighborhood museum, an enormously suc-
cessful annual Festival of American Folklife on the Mall, as well
as fully financed activities in oceanographics and the acquisition
of major collections.

In all of this we feel that our growth has been a logical outcome
of expressed needs of the Institution for further appropriate sup-
port, and for the addition of new activities to supplement and
buttress what we are already trying to do. Fortunately, as the
critic Hilton Kramer has pointed out in the New York Times (May
25, 1975), where we have added museum collections of real magni-
tude or differing theme, we have been able to house them in
separate buildings rather than having to expand an ever-growing
single roof, or balloon out on a single ever more vast building. In
my own opinion the days of combining all the world’s spectrum
of art—produced in all the continents from pre-classical to con-
temporary times, ranging in style from the Old Masters to “ethno-
art” or tribal arts—under a single roof in a multicellular building
are over. Museum fatigue can be akin to twisting the dial too
rapidly on a television set. A kaleidoscope of impressions in-
evitably brings on premature symptoms of brain damage. In a
vast collection like the Metropolitan Museum of Art, only rigorous
discipline will allow the practiced museum-goer or guided student
to focus on a single exhibit or period of time in cultural history on
a single visit, presumably one of many. The average museum-goer
has no such opportunity. A single visit can only produce a kind of
cosmorama or phantasmagoria so that the etiology of museumitis
is assured.

But if we attempt to make the Institution’s growth selective,
how do we select? In the past two years the Smithsonian has em-
barked on a series of priorities studies, using our administrative
resources to marshal bureau directors, our distinguished Smithson-
ian Council, our National Associates Board, and our Development

8 / Smithsonian Year 1975
Office, to focus on where our real needs remain. A seminar among
our science bureaux last February at Front Royal, Virginia, was
another example of our reassessment of our own progress.

It is quite clear from all these discussions that the future growth
of the Institution should consist of two parallel and distinct types
of activity. Physically, as far as existing needs are concerned, we
have reached a sort of plateau of new growth. We need desperately
a consolidated Museum Support Facility to house, curate, and con-
serve collections, in an off-campus setting, away from the Mall.
The public exhibition facilities on the Mall should not be further
cramped by the increasing pressures of storage and curation.

We already possess the land and some of the facilities at Suit-
land, Maryland, to expand appropriately. We need to create a new
way of looking at collections, working with them, and training
conservators as a prototype for a national conservation school.
Surely the Smithsonian must accept the responsibility for conserva-
tion of objects. We curate and store hundreds of thousands of
objects made by man, just as the Library of Congress and the
National Archives curate and store millions of documents, records,
manuscripts, and books. Only recently has it been realized that the
legacy of man-made objects is just as valuable historically and
philosophically as the testament of the written word. Present
efforts to conserve these objects are still in their infancy, carried
on spottily throughout museums and historical collections all over
the country by about two hundred trained persons. The training of
conservationists and the study of conservation techniques are of
the highest priority. Unless the Smithsonian can develop a Museum
Support Facility, outside the District of Columbia but still available
for curation and training, we shall be shirking our national re-
sponsibility, the outline of which was laid down in our original
charter of 1846 to be the “keeper of the national collections.”

Additionally, of course, we must renovate, repair, and refurbish
our old buildings and their surroundings. This task of keeping level
with decay and over-use is a fearsome one which never ceases. It
is a task occasioned not so much by growth as by the need to main-
tain our installations at many levels—physical, aesthetic, and in-
tellectual. Lack of attention to these concerns brings more expense
and trouble. Our surroundings directly affect their own mainte-
nance. It is easy enough to note that run-down lawns, neglected

Statement by the Secretary / 9
bushes or flower beds have just as direct an effect in increasing
untidyness and litter, as do shabby interiors, torn rugs, or broken
furniture.

One of the sadnesses of some contemporary architecture today
is contrived drabness. I recall sitting on an austere stone bench
(very new and stark) in the lower lobby of a brand new building
at Yale University, whose extruded aggregate wall and studied
terrazzo and cement floors conveyed all the style of a World War II
European concentration camp. A graduate student having finished
a soft drink bottle taken from a vending machine near the door to
the library, simply hurled it into the corner to smash and add to
the litter rather than place it in the handy rack for empties. This
was not an isolated gesture but rather a symbolic act. When in
Bedlam or in Belsen by all means behave like the other inmates—
or the guards?

The positive aspect of maintenance may be summed up: to
preserve is also to improve. And so the tasks of conservation,
curation, and storage go hand-in-hand with the tasks of keeping up,
of refurbishing, and of redoing our exhibits—whether in the Na-
tional. Zoo, or the museums—and of refining our laboratory
facilities. These tasks are not those having to do with growth but
rather those pertaining to prudent management.

The final, most important task which involves taking care of
what we already have is how to utilize the objects. With the in-
crease in collected objects comes an increasing responsibility for
growth in depth. Communication between bureaux and between
museums concerning collections, understanding what it is that we
possess, where it is, and how to retrieve the pertinent data, becomes
a new priority. Like libraries, museums suffer from bigness. Often
one department does not know what another has or where it is or
how to find it. Cataloguing and retrieval of museum information
are still miles behind the universality of present library techniques.

Here is an area where the Smithsonian has an opportunity to
provide national and international leadership in handling the trans-
mittal of information on collections; where they are, who knows
about them, and what more remains to be found out? We still have
no mechanism to correlate our cataloguing information with the
records of our registrar, who is concerned with logging objects in
or logging them out. We have no compatibility in systems, no

10 / Smithsonian Year 1975
agreed-upon vocabulary, no way of meshing in objects data with
library data, even though we know the basic principles for carrying
out these procedures. Thus the work of finding out how to use and
how to exchange information on our objects is in its prehistoric
stages. And yet as we are the caretakers of a finite set of things
for posterity, we must not only conserve them but we must pro-
vide the memory bank to let our successors know that we even
knew we had them and, as well, what we thought about them.

Finally, the second parallel and distinct type of activity of an
institution such as ours is indeed growth. “Ah ha,” the gentle reader
will say, “truth will out. We always suspected the worst’!

It is true that museums as such are concerned with growth. I
often think that today’s museums are the only legitimate growth
industry left. It is the nature of a museum to acquire objects, al-
though today the acquisition process is highly refined. As I noted
earlier, the Club of Rome study intimated that certain natural re-
sources, oil or copper for example, are finite in quantity in the
world and may run out. In the same way, museum keepers know
that the supply of objects, whether made by man, or great natural
objects, such as whales or pandas, are finite in number and will
inevitably run out in due course. So endangered man-made objects
must be preserved and collected with the same zeal and care needed
for endangered living species, end-products of the miracles of
evolution, that they may be preserved alive in some manner for
the future. How curious that a museum or zoo ends up being both
a growth industry and an instrument of conservation? What a
paradox to find a growth industry which is not at the same time a
consumer of resources?

Equally, for better or worse, the Smithsonian is constantly in-
volved in turning down potential gifts. Such gifts may range from
buildings to vast or small things. Thus we recently have turned
down the San Francisco Mint, the Saint Louis Post Office, and the
liner S.S. United States. Additionally we have politely rejected the
largest collection of ceramics from Thailand ever offered to any
museum in the United States (because we could not prove they
were legally imported).

But of course the Smithsonian accepts things especially where
the things in some way interdigitate with other things we already
have, or represent lacks in closely related subjects. For example, the

Statement by the Secretary / 11
Institution possesses a good deal of basic railroading material and
documentation of the history of railroad evolution in the United
States, but we lack a “donkey,” a particular small shunting engine
of a type long since dismantled and now only rarely found in the
Southern States used as a power take-off for temporary logging or
lumber mills set up in pine forests. But how to find one? How to
seek out that rarity, that sadly unrecognized relic, beneath whose
dirt and greasy squalor lies the “impassioned beauty of a great
machine.” Oh Georgia-Pacific, Oh Weyerhauser, where is thy
benison? Where in some neglected forest glade lies maundering
that rusting hulk?

Another area in which our collections have strength is in the
history of porcelain-making in Europe. Oriental hard-paste por-
celains were greatly admired in the West, but it was not until the
early eighteenth century, under the aegis of Augustus the Strong,
Elector of Saxony, that hard-paste porcelain was successfully pro-
duced in Europe at Augustus’s Meissen factory. Through the
benefactions of a few donors, notably Dr. Hans Syz, our Museum
of History and Technology possesses an important collection of
European hard-paste porcelains as well as a fascinating exhibit of
many Oriental prototypes in design and pattern.

But of the equally significant soft-paste porcelains, especially
from French factories of the late seventeenth and the early eight-
eenth centuries, such as Rouen, Saint Cloud, Mennecy, Chantilly,
and Sevres, we are woefully deficient. To demonstrate the develop-
ments in ceramic history and technology in Europe and the United
States, gaps such as this must be filled. And so, collectors, know
that the Smithsonian would indeed welcome gifts, not only of
French soft-paste porcelain, but of many other types of European
and American ceramics dating from about 1700 to the present. For
this is only prudence on our part. If we are to preserve such objects,
they must be en suite, to make the collection comprehensive and
historically more worthwhile for study. In this pursuit there should
be no impediment.

But the question of collecting is fraught with complication. As
I have pointed out, the objects are finite in number, like rare natural
resources. They may be fought over by rival directors or keepers
with ferocious or Machiavellian zeal. Or again they may be already
possessed by one institution or other and unavailable for further

12 / Smithsonian Year 1975
acquisition. This is all right if the objects are well taken care of,
documented, or conserved. It is also all right if they are available
for outside study or loan. Here the Metropolitan Museum of Art
in New York has recently been pioneering most farsightedly in
loan collections exchange so that objects of great rarity, not other-
wise available for collecting nor thus for viewing or studying,
may be exchanged temporarily or for a longer term, to benefit
others.

In such cases of higher need or high policy, the broad vision of a
director or a group of trustees may well exceed the imagination and
vision of a particular curator. Some curators are objective and full
of vision, ample in their comprehension of the needs of museums
in general as well as of the possibilities of education for the public,
but others may still have a long way to go in the area of posses-
sions. Like members of a family trying to divide up a parent’s
possessions after the funeral, curators sometimes let their human-
ness show. They may not always be willing to lend, exchange
where possible, or otherwise make objects available for study.

Perhaps this is where the attic image for museums makes its
appearance. People are possessive but not for scholarship. They
want to own things but not for posterity. They are proud of pos-
sessions, but not careful of their provenance or thoughtful of their
future. After a time they have possessed, as they have loved, and,
the embers growing cold, they could not care less what happens to
the objects. So send them up to the attic or send them to the local
historical society or museum! What's left anyway? And that’s how
museums often inherit their collections. No wonder then that the
curator, mindful of how this careless largesse has been acquired,
becomes jealous, or secretive or unsharing, bound that his superior
knowledge and his possessions will carry their secrets with them
to the grave. Such is the very antithesis of rational curation, con-
servation, and care for posterity. Surely no curator worth his salt
can fail to admit that some of these unworthy thoughts have passed
through his own head.

Thus museums are a growth industry give or take a few years.
Selective as they may be, “growth is the only evidence of life.”
But such growth is difficult to plan, notwithstanding established
priorities. Maybe we will never get a shunting engine or a perfect
collection of “soft-paste’” china, but there are other targets of

Statement by the Secretary / 13
opportunity along the trail. If an opportunity should come for the
Institution to acquire a collection of portraits of native Americans
similar in quality to those secured in the late 1870s painted by
George Catlin, should we say no because such an unexpected event
is not listed among our priorities? Fortunately, museum curators,
knowing that no one really cares about posterity except themselves
and librarians, would not be so pedantic. At such a moment a
proper curator throws caution to the winds and acts as decisively
and coolly as James Bond with one minute to solve the fate of the
world. The curator knows as surely as “007” that in acquiring
certain things from time to time, there is no priority. There is only
the urgent necessity. Equipped with such powers of discretion,
sureness, and authority, curators may act as coolly and shrewedly
as any great intelligence operative, knowing that what they are
after may represent one of the world’s only legacies for the future.

Thus the Smithsonian will continue to grow, and to conserve
prudently and to refurbish what it possesses, mindful of the keen-
ness of perception and judgment required along the way. It is an
honorable task, and an onerous one, not easy, for the world finds
such skills difficult to understand, their worth hard to evaluate,
and there is no school in which to learn except that of experience.
And yet this is a task of high priority, for collectors remain one of
the only means we have to help the long train of understanding,
of communication between generations which is the very stuff of
history. If history is transmitted in an institution such as ours
then this reinforces and instructs the present and casts a glimmer
of light into the murky shades shrouding the future.

I have referred in the past to a museum as a social planetarium
where past may be delineated, present experienced, and future
postulated, the latter deriving from both the others. We hope that
an additional natural development for the Smithsonian will be the
creation of a flexible area adjacent to the National Air and Space
Museum, where some presentiment of the future may be exhibited.
We would show some of the results of our known technologies,
both newly acquired, as well as re-use of old, for solar energy,
water conservation, food resources—in general, all that we know
or can perceive about life support systems. As we near the end of
our Bicentennial it is well to look ahead to our Tricentennial, and
in the process demonstrate to our citizens some of the implications
contained in the concept limits to growth.

14 / Smithsonian Year 1975
Limits to growth in this sense is not a real phrase. It is merely
symbolic and in proposing it the authors of the Club of Rome
study were suggesting a riddle. Mankind cannot exist without
growth but we would be wise to accustom ourselves to an outlook
which stresses the interdependence of our existence as humans on
the planet. While nationalism and independence are taken for
granted today, the world economy, the use of resources, the inter-
locking systems by which we live are inevitably becoming supra-
national.

Paradoxically, just as events in the world at large having to do
with available resources, food, and overpopulation should be re-
minding the statesmen of the world of our interdependence, our in-
ternational political institutions such as those associated with the
United Nations are increasingly threatened by neo-nationalism,
tribal and ethnic factionalism, and irrational social behavior. Per-
haps we need some practical demonstrations, such as those related
to how we are going to have to share in the future in order to exist
at all, to remind us that we should impose societal discipline upon
ourselves rather than have it superimposed upon us by events be-
yond our control.

As the Institution looks back over the past year one priority
clearly emerges. Along with evaluation of our procedures and our
growth should come an examination of ways to make ourselves
more self-reliant. Only in this fashion can we carry through our
objectives in a businesslike and timely fashion. I have always felt
that the Congress encourages us to act in such a responsible fashion
and indeed they have. The fact that we are filling in the West Court
of the Museum of Natural History using funds that the Institution
has raised privately so as to improve the facilities for our visitors,
school classes, tourists, and Associates alike, as well as to produce
restaurant accommodations for their comfort, has reminded our
Congressional committees that we have an obligation to do this.
We can act independently and prudently as we are chartered to do,
using private support to achieve goals related to the education and
convenience of our visitors. This is a facility which would have
taken far longer to achieve using the normal budget review and
Congressional appropriations procedures and would, therefore,
have been inevitably far more expensive. We can be thankful that
our charter gives us such flexibility.

Statement by the Secretary / 15
Such a development could not have come about without the
support the Associates have given us. At every level, locally and
nationally, there is a new awareness of the Smithsonian abroad.
This has come about largely because of Associates’ activities which
bring them a new understanding of our work and concerns. The
local programs of the Associates in Washington now involve some
70,000 people. Our national membership now stands at over
900,000. This means that for the first time Americans in a measur-
able proportion across the land have a feeling of belonging to the
Smithsonian and are in the process of understanding more clearly
their own heritage. For in this awareness they will realize that
the Smithsonian belongs to them.

This past year has seen the birth of two additional forms of
Institution outreach, one popular and of questionable impact from
our own point of view, the other of more immediate educational
interest to ourselves. The first was an apparently highly successful
series of three television hour specials on prime time, on the
Columbia Broadcasting System network, produced by David
Wolper, the celebrated independent producer, and sponsored by
du Pont. The three programs were light, somewhat frothy, and
varied from sensational to charming and nostalgic. I enjoyed them
as entertainment, as nearly fifty million Americans seemed to do,
and I hope they will be produced again. As entertainment they can
remind the public that the Smithsonian is fun and not merely “good
for one,” like castor oil or blackstrap molasses. Of course the more
we can remind people that learning is fun, and that the Smith-
sonian is fun, the better.

The second event has been the release of the first of our Encyclo-
paedia Britannica filmstrips for schools. We hope these will spread
across the land and increase the accessibility of our collections to
everyone in the same way that we hope to enlarge our Traveling
Exhibition Service of objects ranging from prints and pictures to
decorative objects or historic objects illustrating crafts and tech-
nology.

This past year has included several important appointments. Mr.
Stephen Weil has come to us from the Whitney Museum of Ameri-
can Art in New York to assume the post of Deputy Director of the
Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden. Dr. James Billington has
become Director of the Woodrow Wilson International Center for

16 / Smithsonian Year 1975

Scholars after a trial year’s leave from Princeton. Dr. Forrest C.
Pogue was appointed Director of the Eisenhower Institute for His-
torical Research in the National Museum of History and Tech-
nology. Mr. Lawrence Laybourne has joined the Smithsonian as
Coordinator, Office of Membership and Development, after work-
ing as a Vice President for Government Affairs of Time Incorpor-
ated for a number of years in Washington. Mr. Howard Toy has
come to us as Director of Personnel from the Office of Economic
Opportunity. We are honored and pleased with these significant
additions to our staff, and honored also that Francis S. L. William-
son, Director of the Smithsonian’s Chesapeake Bay Center for
Environmental Studies, has taken a year’s leave of absence to serve
as Commissioner of Public Health and Social Services in the
Cabinet of Governor Jay S. Hammond in the state of Alaska.

Two retirements after many years’ service of particular im-
portance this year were those of Dr. George S. Switzer and Mr.
Jeremiah Collins. Dr. Switzer was in the Department of Geology
from 1948, and in the Department of Mineral Sciences from 1963,
and Chairman of that Department from 1968 until his retirement.
Mr. Collins has retired after nineteen years of service with the
Smithsonian’s International Exchange Service during seventeen of
which he was head of that Service, which each year on behalf of
the Library of Congress and government agencies ships many
tons of published works from the United States to libraries abroad.

Death claimed several of our men in the Smithsonian service in-
cluding the untimely loss of Mr. L. Wardlaw Hamilton of the Gen-
eral Counsel’s office in a motor accident and Mr. Jesse E. Merida,
a museum specialist in geology, of a heart attack. Howard I.
Chapelle, an internationally known marine historian and author,
who was Historian of Marine Architecture on the staff of the Na-
tional Museum of History and Technology until 1971, died on
June 30, 1975. He had been a prominent member of the Smith-
sonian staff since 1957.

For a mere nine months of the past year, our visitors to the
Smithsonian buildings in Washington, excluding the Zoo, comprised
13,128,000 people, a considerable increase over the preceding year.
However, among our problems with this continual growth of visitor
interest has been the limited space for circulation, as well as our
pitifully limited funds for renovation of the space we possess.

Statement by the Secretary / 17
Among the six major museums of natural history in the United
States from the West Coast to the East, the Smithsonian’s Natural
History Museum ranks last in space for exhibits, 166,000 square
feet, close to a third in size of the largest of those museums (the
Field Museum in Chicago), but with visitor attendance three times
as large as that of the larger museums. The resulting wear and
tear makes critical our need for renovation funds as well as for a
new support facility for research, conservation, and off-Mall
curation of collections. We are doing our best, as I have noted
earlier in this report, to match federal funds with private support
in renovation in that particular museum, but the obligation to
serve the public subsumes a similar obligation for help from the
public sources that support our museums for the public good.

Our labors would be incomplete without the many gifts which
the Institution has received over the year in funds or in kind. The
principal acquisition during the year has been the formal decision
by Mr. Bern Dibner to transfer to us his extraordinary library and
collection of artifacts in the history of science. This collection has
been referred to elsewhere in our annual report of this year and
last, but it helps to place our departmental work in the history of
science and technology in a new context. I could say with some
confidence, primus inter pares.

Gifts to the Institution are also listed elsewhere, but among them
of special note are the two outstanding Bicentennial donations of
a million dollars each from American Airlines and General Foods
for support of our Festivals of American Folklife of 1975 and 1976,
and the gift of the Summa Corporation of funds for the Howard
Hughes “Racer” plane and its exhibit in the National Air and Space
Museum. We are most grateful to the Eppley Foundation for sup-
port of fellowships at the Radiation Biology Laboratory and its
work on ozone concentration. Finally we should not overlook the
gift from eight third-grade boys at the Onate Elementary School
in Albuquerque, New Mexico, who set up a research project on
mythology and organized a classroom museum exhibit, charging
one cent in admission. From this they donated their entire pro-
ceeds to the Smithsonian, $6.08. We are grateful indeed for their
wholehearted enterprise.

For the first time an ad hoc committee of members of the
National Board of the Smithsonian Associates worked together in

18 / Smithsonian Year 1975

the review of a Smithsonian project. The Chancellor appointed
two members of the Board of Regents and two members of the
National Board whose interest in oceanography and the environ-
ment were germane to the review of the Fort Pierce Bureau. It is
expected that in the future similar projects will be reviewed by
such ad hoc combined efforts.

Board of Regents

THE BOARD OF REGENTS held its customary three meetings in fiscal
year- 1975.

At the Fall Meeting of September 24, 1974, the Board welcomed
Dr. Gell-Mann as a recently appointed Regent. It was noted with
great satisfaction that Mr. Burden and Dr. Haskins had been re-
appointed, by acts of Congress.

The financial report was summarized for the Board and the
Board congratulated the Secretary for the good financial position of
the Institution. In the Financial Report presented in this report,
there will be found a full discussion of the finances of the Institu-
tion, including comment on the market value of current funds, en-
dowment funds, and plant funds.

The Board accepted with pleasure the gift of Mr. Bern Dibner
consisting of the major resources of the Dibner Library of the His-
tory of Science and Technology.

The Cooper-Hewitt Museum was discussed at some length and
the Board resolved to continue all efforts to bring the Museum into
active operation.

Hillwood Museum was found to continue in financial distress,
due to the investment market, and will remain in a holding status.
A public opening will depend on a satisfactory long-term solution
to financing of operating expenses.

The agreement with the Marriott Corporation for construction of
a three-story building to contain a restaurant, office space, and

Statement by the Secretary / 19
public education areas in the West Court of the National History
Building was ratified. This is a joint venture using Marriott funds
and Smithsonian private funds.

The Congress reauthorized the National Museum Act in accord-
ance with the recommendation of the Regents. It was noted that
the construction programs for the National Air and Space Museum
and the National Zoological Park were progressing satisfactorily.
It was further noted that additional steps should be taken by the
National Park Service and the D.C. Department of Highways and
Traffic to provide automobile parking for traffic, especially during
the Bicentennial year.

The Regents were assured that the Comptroller General had
examined a number of legal questions raised by a Senator and had
found no evidence that the Hirshhorn matter had been illegally
consumated in any particular.

The Regents complimented the Secretary on being appointed as
an Officer of the Ordre Francais des Arts et des Lettres. The meet-
ing was followed by a pre-opening tour of the Hirshhorn Museum
and Sculpture Garden.

The traditional Annual Meeting of the Board was held on January
24, 1975.

The financial report was summarized and presented. The new
federal fiscal year beginning on October 1 and ending on Sep-
tember 30 was adopted by the Board.

After hearing an explanation by the Treasurer of the need for
additional costs for the projected three-story building for the West
Court of the National Museum of Natural History, together with
an urgent plea from Director Porter Kier for the improvement, the
Regents approved proceeding with the project.

On the basis of an historical review of some six years of ocean-
ographic research based at Fort Pierce, Florida, the Secretary pro-
posed and the Regents agreed to a review for future guidance of
the corporate and program relationship with the donors, J. Seward
Johnson and Edwin A. Link. A Smithsonian ad hoc committee com-
prising several Regents and members of the Smithsonian’s Board
of National Associates was proposed. Mr. Johnson and Mr. Link
concurred.

Mr. John Nicholas Brown, Chairman of the National Armed
Forces Museum Advisory Board, reviewed for the Regents the long

20 / Smithsonian Year 1975
history of the unsuccessful actions taken to establish an outdoor
military museum. The combined difficulties of acquiring a riparian
site to accommodate naval as well as land-based exhibits and the
acquisition of a site with automobile access without disrupting the
adjoining residential subdivisions had defeated our numerous
efforts. The Regents recognized these barriers to an outdoor
museum in the environs of Washington. They received with favor
the description of the potential of the Eisenhower Institute in the
National Museum of History and Technology to develop future
programs to portray the historic contributions of the Armed
Forces of the United States. The Regents then directed that the
report of the Advisory Board be transmitted to the Congress
pursuant to the provisions of Public Law 87-186.

The Regents considered the six-year history of efforts to obtain
Congressional authorization of a museum support facility to
relieve the crowding of objects of historical, scientific, and artistic
significance into corridors and exhibition space. The Regents re-
solved to request the Congressional Members to reintroduce legisla-
tion to authorize planning of the support facilities, to be located off
the Mall but in a location as near as possible.

The Regents considered favorably a proposal for legislation to
reserve for the Smithsonian’s public service purposes the last re-
maining building site on the Mall, between Third and Fourth
Streets, Maryland and Independence Avenues, and Jefferson Drive.

The Board considered and approved the actions taken by the
National Collection of Fine Arts Commission, primarily the ac-
ceptance of works presented for accessions.

To assist the National Portrait Gallery in carrying out its basic
functions, the Board authorized the Secretary to request the Con-
gress to amend the founding act of April 27, 1962, so as to add to its
programs the collection and display of prints and photographs.
The Regents approved the actions of the National Portrait Gallery
Commission at its meetings on May 8 and November 11, 1974,
primarily relating to accessions.

The Regents were given further status reports on construction
projects at the National Air and Space Museum, the National Zoo-
logical Park, and the Arts and Industries Building, and accepted with
great pleasure the gift of Mr. William A. M. Burden of ballooning
artifacts, including books and furniture with a ballooning motif.

Statement by the Secretary / 21
A motion was adopted to designate the education building at the
Chesapeake Bay Center as the Jean C. Schmidt Environmental
Education Building in honor of Miss Schmidt’s development of an
environmental awareness program before her untimely death.

The Spring Meeting of the Board was held on May 14, 1975.

The Chancellor warmly welcomed Vice President Rockefeller and
Senator Frank E. Moss, who were attending their first meeting of
the Board. Senator Moss of Utah succeeds Senator J. William Ful-
bright. It was noted that on January 28, 1975, the Speaker of the
House of Representatives had reappointed Congressman George
H. Mahon as a member of the Board, and had appointed Repre-
sentative Elford A. Cederberg and Representative Sidney R. Yates,
each for a term of two years.

The Regents were presented a summary of the Federal-Budget of
$79,408,000 for operations and $17,892,000 for other special
projects including construction, and the reconstruction of the
Egyptian Temple at Philae. The status of the nonfederal funds of
the Institution were presented in detail. The Board approved the
budget of the private funds for fiscal year 1976.

The Investment Policy Committee Report was presented on be-
half of the Chairman, Mr. Burden.

In accordance with the governing statute, the Board submitted
recommendations to the President for appointment to the National
Armed Forces Museum Advisory Board.

The Regents received the report from the ad hoc committee on
Fort Pierce, Florida. The study included a tour of the facilities and
talks by members of the scientific staff. The principal programs
are the Indian River Study, the Life Histories Studies, and the
Submarine Exploration of the East Florida Continental Shelf. These
and other research programs were considered by the Smithsonian
staff to be worthwhile and should be continued. Dr. Murray Gell-
Mann of the review committee concluded in its report that the
present arrangements for accomplishing the scientific objectives at
Fort Pierce should be continued on substantially the same lines,
with a yearly review of objectives. The Regents approved.

Several bills introduced by Congressional Regents had been
favorably reported by the Subcommittee on Library and Memorials
of the Committee on House Administration. Included were a bill to
authorize planning of a museum support facility in Suitland,

22 / Smithsonian Year 1975
From left to right: Mrs. John Nicholas Brown, Secretary and Mrs. S. Dillon
Ripley, and the Honorable John Nicholas Brown, Regent and Chairman of the
National Armed Forces Museum Advisory Board, Smithsonian Institution, in
the Great Hall, Smithsonian Institution Building, evening of May 14, 1975, at
the conclusion of a reception and dinner given by the Board of Regents and the
NAFMAB in Mr. Brown’s honor, on the occasion of the dedication of the
Dwight D. Eisenhower Institute for Historical Research. The Board of Regents
bestowed the Henry Medal on Mr. Brown on this occasion.
Maryland; a bill to reserve the last remaining building site on the
Mall for the Institution’s use; and bills for the reappointment of
Regents Brown and Watson.

The Board expressed its continued support for the position that
automobile parking at R. F. K. Stadium is not an adequate alterna-
tive to the present parking on the Mall and the additional visitor
parking expected in 1976. The Smithsonian has proposed parking
at the Jefferson Memorial, Tidal Basin, West Independence Avenue,
and the old Polo Grounds. No action has been taken by the National
Park Service.

The current status of various construction projects was given;
details will be found in Appendix 4 of this report.

After discussion with several art curators and architects, artists
Richard Lippold and Charles Perry were given study contracts to
develop scale models for the entrance to the National Air and Space
Museum. Outside financial support would be most welcome.

The agreement with the Summa Corporation regarding the giant
aircraft ““HK-1” was reviewed by the Secretary for the information
of the Regents. Because of the substantial costs involved in provid-
ing a suitable building, transporting the aircraft, and maintaining
so exceptionally large a museum display, it has been agreed that
Summa will continue to maintain the craft for one year. If it is
decided to dismantle the plane rather than to attempt to donate the
craft for display, the Smithsonian will have the right to take por-
tions of the plane.

The Secretary called attention to the comprehensive appraisal
by Dr. Crawford Greenewalt of the Smithsonian Tropical Research
Institute (str1) in Panama, circulated to the Board.

Mr. Goheen stated that he would like to know periodically the
progress of the Institution in equal employment opportunity. The
Secretary referred to a report which was given to the Regents on
the Civil Service Commission’s survey of 1973.

The Regents then joined their wives and guests for a reception
and dinner honoring Dr. John Nicholas Brown on the occasion of
the dedication of the Dwight D. Eisenhower Institute for Historical
Research, at which Dr. Caryl Haskins presented the Henry Medal
to Regent John Nicholas Brown for his devoted service to the In-
stitution and the Nation.

The Board of Regents have encouragingly expressed their in-

24 / Smithsonian Year 1975
terest and concern for our measured growth, our assessment of
priorities consonant with that, and at the same time the growth
of our own awareness of staff and personnel problems. They
realize our concern for equal employment opportunity, for upward
progress in jobs, for the consensus of opinion on ratios in employ-
ment, minority representation, and equal employment opportunities
for women.

With this we welcome their support of the appropriate training
help to nourish our resolve to make museum careers attractive to
people in this country who before might have been quite unaware
of such opportunities. If we can raise the consciousness of people
in general about museum work, and its opportunities for self-en-
lightenment, for jobs, and for the fascination and fun involved, we
will have justified many times over the conviction that here is
indeed a legitimate growth industry.

Statement by the Secretary / 25
of Mae

>
we.
The Commons Restaurant in the Smithsonian “Castle” serves a buffet luncheon
to visiting Smithsonian Associates and to the Smithsonian staff.
Smithsonian Year * 1975

FINANCIAL REPORT

T. AMES WHEELER, TREASURER

SMITHSONIAN'S FISCAL YEAR 1975 may be summarized as one of con-
tinued sound financial progress, even though financial needs con-
tinued to increase. In part, this need was to meet further large
inflation-bred increases in salaries and wages, utilities, and other
operating costs. In addition, new activities, including the opening on
October 1, 1974, of the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden
and the continued step-up in preparations for the 1976 Bicentennial
and next year’s scheduled opening of the new National Air and
Space Museum, required further substantial support. Fortunately,
the Smithsonian received federally appropriated funds to cover a
large part of these added needs. Federal appropriations also pro-
vided a major increase in funding for construction at the National
Zoological Park at a rate designed to achieve completion of its
master plan renovation over a ten-year period. Despite the generous
increase in appropriations, however, tight budgeting of these funds
and curtailment or postponement of a number of worthwhile
projects was necessary. Formal management reviews of the In-
stitution’s priorities have been beneficial in directing our efforts
toward the best uses of these available resources.

At the same time, our private trust funds were strengthened
further during the year, despite the need to meet from our own
resources the same types of inflationary cost increases as affected
federally funded expenses. Private fund income derived from in-
vestments, gifts, the Smithsonian Associates programs, museum
shops, concession fees, and other revenue-producing activities in-
creased substantially in fiscal year 1975. Gifts, largely for specific

27
projects, such as Air and Space exhibits and the Bicentennial
Festival of American Folklife, more than doubled those of the
previous year.

These private trust funds have normally been used principally
to take care of administrative expenses, to fund programs specified
by donors, and to assist in a modest way a variety of our Bureaux’
endeavors, such as small research efforts, publications, or the
acquisition of collection items for which federal funds have not
been available. In fiscal year 1975, larger private revenues made it
possible to initiate a long-sought program of adding to the In-
stitution’s present meager unrestricted-purpose endowment funds.
Increased private fund resources also made it possible to finance
improvements to our Museum Shops and, assisted by foundation
grants and other donations, construct a new training building for
the Chesapeake Bay Center for Environmental Studies and start the
renovation of the Cooper-Hewitt Museum’s new quarters (toward
which we are still seeking another $1,000,000 of outside support).
Continued success of the Institution’s self-help efforts, which
also play a major role in bringing the Institution’s educational
values to a wider audience throughout the Nation, will enable us
to continue the strengthening of our endowment funds, the alloca-
tion of additional support to our bureaux in areas not covered by
federal funding, and the construction of improved facilities for our
visiting public and Smithsonian Associates already underway in
the West Court of the National Museum of Natural History.

Overall Sources and Application of Funds

In Table 1 there is shown a comparative listing of all of the In-
stitution’s sources of financial support for the past four years.
Federal appropriations totaling $74,511,000 provided 76.3 percent
of the $97,623,000 of overall operating funds in fiscal year 1975.
Grants and contracts at $12,292,000 equaled 12.6 percent, and
nonfederal (private trust funds) sources accounted for 11.1 per-
cent of the total; the proportions provided by both of these sources
rose in the past year, gains which are in line with the Institution’s

28 / Smithsonian Year 1975
TaBLe 1. Overall Sources of Financial Support

[$1,000’s]
Sources FY 1972 FY 1973 FY 1974 FY 1975
OPERATING FUNDS
Federal appropriation:
Salaries and expenses ...... $44,701 $51,633 $58,868 $70,706
Smithsonian Science
Information Exchange .... 1,600 1,600 1,695 1,805
Special Foreign Currency
IPTOGTAMY 22 fale so ore io eiele ee 3,500 3,500 4,500 2,000
GHpLOrallst icici eters $49,801 $56,733 $65,063 $74,511
Research grants and contracts . . 8,088 8,996 9,996 12,292
Nonfederal funds:
Gifts (excluding gifts to
endowments)
Restricted purpose ....... 1,598 2,901 1,970 ANT,
Unrestricted purpose ..... 26* 33* 2756 253u
Income from endowment and
current funds investment
Restricted purpose ....... 1,573 7362" 1,750 1,724
Unrestricted purpose ..... 334 436 747 953
Revenue-producing activities
cori, 7 ae (141) 170 1,770 2,308
Wirseellaneousie..- cia siaie.« os 482 1,069 1,110 1,405
Total nonfederal funds .. 3,872 6,345** 7,622 10,820

Total Operating Support $61,761 $72,074 $82,681 $97,623

CONSTRUCTION FUNDS

Federal Construction Funds:

National Zoological Park ... $ 200 $675 $ 3,790 $ 9,420
National Air & Space Museum 1,900 13,000 17,000 7,000
Hirshhorn Museum ........ 3,697 —0- —0- —0-
Restoration & Renovation of
Buildings Ree icity ata ccerer eke. (5 - 550 5,014 1,070 1,490
Total Federal Construction
IEG AO c. 5 sre Ge -.Ss) oee ae $ 6,347 $18,689 $21,860 $17,910
Private Plant & Land Acquisition
Funds:
Cooper-Hewitt Museum .... $ 700 $ 106 $ 262 $ 162
Hirshhorn Museum ........ — = 1,000 —
Chesapeake Bay Center .... 386 149 70 15
Anacostia Neighborhood
INITISCCIENINA Shas ores ele ees = - - 10
Total Private Plant and
Acquisition Funds ..... $ 1,086 $ 255 $ 1,332 C3 alGy/

* Excluding gifts to Associates (included under Revenue-Producing Activities).
** Includes $225,000 of fiscal year 1973 income transferred from Endowment Fund
No. 3 for this purpose in fiscal year 1972.

Financial Report / 29
TABLE 2. Source and Application of Operating Funds for
Year Ended June 30, 1975

(Excludes Special Foreign Currency Funds, Plant Funds, and Endowments)
[In $1,000’s]

Funds

Fed-
eral

funds

Nonfederal funds
Unrestricted Restricted
Total Reve-
non- nue  Spe- Grants
fed- pro- cial and
eral Gen- duc- pur- Gen-_ con-
funds eral ing pose eral _ tracts

FUND BALANCES—

AS uly OFA, Nts recta toss

FUNDS PROVIDED

Federal Appropriations ...
Investment Income.......
Grants and Contracts ....
(Gibtsialiaaceat arcu na peetays

Total Provided ....
Total Available ....

FUNDS APPLIED

Science:
Environmental Science ...
Natl. Museum of Nat.

ISIS WOFAY! a dige-ociblee ad ceo.
Natl. Zoological Park ....
Fort Pierce Bureau .......
Science Info. Exchange* .
Smithsonian Astrophysical

Observatory see:
Radiation Biology Lab. ....
Smithsonian Tropical

Research Institute ......
Interdisciplinary Communi-

cations Program .......
Natl. Air and Space

IMMUISEGIO necocodsuocbce
©ther Science s,s. enn.

History and Art:

Natl. Portrait Gallery .

Natl. Collection of
ineweAttsS ery ea. tiirers

Freer Galleryinn-.aercio

Natl. Museum of History
and Technology ........

Cooper-Hewitt Museum ..

$ -0O- $ 6,792 $3,477 $ -O- $ 460 $2,802 $ 53

$72,511
$ 2,677 $ 950 $ Sy e) Gil ne. & —
12,344 = - = =p lasaa
4,577 46 147° | 2070 Apia =
18,866 =. (118655), soe = =
1,194 228 — |, 3304 5n6s6 -
$72,511 $39,658 $1,224 $18,802 $ 751 $6,537 $12,344
$72,511 $46,450 $4,701 $18,802 $1,211 $9,339 $12,397
$ 12775 371 $ §30$ —~¢$ 5 $. 4655 200
9,260 1,338 84 = 44 216 994
5,429 87 39 = 1 40 7
= 648 = = 1 "G47 -
1,805 at 1 = = = =
3,501 7,918 65 = 28° Laie) 74706
1,727, 87 - = 3 7 77
1,205 110 sl = 87 22: =
Sahay 23 = = 15, “16206
3,947 366 4 = 88 a nna 132
1272) 079 8 - 15° 7 100 946
29,423) 13)249) 255 = | 272 1364) daesss
1,499 244 10 = 16 180 38
2,046 66 10 = 43 i 2
380 =1,088 = = =) 088 =
4,992 660 50 — 82, 467 61
209 482 2 = =) 208 182
TaBLe 2. Source and Application of Operating Funds for
Year Ended June 30, 1975—continued

[In $1,000’s]

Nonfederal funds

Unrestricted Restricted
Total Reve-
non- nue  Spe- Grants
Fed- fed- pro- cial and
eral eral Gen- duc-  pur- Gen-_ con-
Funds funds funds eral ing pose eral _ tracts
Archives of American
NTE. ah@iktg Bi CRE RRO 279 214 — = = 212 72
Bicentennial of the
American Revolution ... 3,855 10 10 - - - -
STU eee a5 Sao eee eae - ily - ~ —- 512 ~
Hirshhorn Museum ...... 1,541 110 96 - 8 - 6
Other History and Art ... 363 473 32 ~ 50) 2511 140
W@ralmeye 2/28 2 cased 15,164 3,859 210 = 199 3,019 431
Public Service:
Revenue-Producing Activities
Smithsonian Press ..... 586 361 - 361 - - -
Performing Arts ....... 482 1,205 27 558 = 303 317
(OHI os 5 Sip Bee eee — 15,600 2255155579 2, = 1
Anacostia Museum ...... 403 42 20 - = 12 10
Other Public Service ..... 862 299 95 - i 203 -
Total 9 age sane Perel; IB Uy/ 164 16,494 3 518 328
Museum Programs:
eilbrantesmeeree oo... soan% 1,564 - - - - - -
ladon ics o Jp oo Cea 936 10 ~ = 8 = 2
Natl. Museum Act Pgms. .. 802 - - - - - -
Other Museum Programs .. 1,867 B25 32 - 4 126 161
UGTA ere eee 5,169 B55 32 = 12 126 163
Buildings Management and
Protection Services ..... 15,840 38 19 - 19 - -
NGministratione. 22%. < eis 4,582 4,100 889 621 18 407 2,165
Overhead Recovered ... — (3,644) (433) (621) (18) (407) (2,165)
Transfers for Designated
Purposes—Out or (In) .. = 1,691 (202) 2,308 (365) (62) 12,

Total Funds Applied $72,511

$37,133 $ 934 $18,802 $ 140 $4,965 $12,292

FUND BALANCES—
2X0), |fibtg a esa eercene Bie ene $ -O- $ 9,317 $3,767 $ -O- $1,071 $4,374 $ 105

* Figures do not include revenues to SSIE from other sources of approximately $800,000.
TaBLe 3. Application of Federal Appropriations
Fiscal Year 1972 through Fiscal Year 1975

(Excluding Special Foreign Currency Program)
[In $1,000’s]

Area FY 1972 FY 1973 FY 1974 FY 1975
Scien certian slot bie Mono olaenerse $18,365 $20,329 $24,884 $29,423
History ANGHAT Ean ener ere 6,285 8,022 T2130 15,164
RublictSenviceimeo cee eee 2,093 2253 2,696 2,333
Museum’ Programs) 3.424455 5,881 6,660 4,321 5,169
Aaministrationteneaee oreo 3,235 3,987 4,693 4,582.
Building Maintenance and
Protection ie cco eens 10,442 11,982 11,839 15,840
MOA eee eee oe $46,301 $53,233 $60,563 $72,511

goal of restoring a better balance between federal and nonfederal
support. Construction funds totaling just over $18,000,000 in fiscal
year 1975 continue to be provided almost exclusively by federal
appropriations.

The application in fiscal year 1975 of all of these funds (exclud-
ing Special Foreign Currency funds, Plant funds and Endowment
funds) to Smithsonian’s diverse activities is set forth in Table 2.
Detailed discussion of the various types of income and their uses
follow.

FEDERAL OPERATING FUNDS
For fiscal year 1975, Congress provided $70,706,000 of appropriated
funds for the Smithsonian’s normal operating purposes (“salaries
and expenses”), a generous increase of $11,838,000 over the pre-
ceding year.

Of this increase, $6,500,000 was devoted primarily to furthering
the three high-priority program objectives followed in fiscal year
1974, namely: (1) continued preparation for opening of the new
National Air and Space Museum in July 1976; (2) development of
Bicentennial activities; and (3) further strengthening of the many
services needed for the protection, care, and cataloguing of col-
lections and support for related research. The remaining 45 percent,

32 / Smithsonian Year 1975
TaBLe 4. Special Foreign Currency Program
Fiscal Year 1975 Obligations
[In $1,000’s]

System-
atic & Astro-
Environ- physics Grant
Arche- mental & Earth Museum Adminis-

Country ology Biology Sciences Programs tration Total
igrelicien eee eee $ 196,206 $ 69,740 $ 34,900 $ 48,472 $ 96,631 $ 445,949
ype a. Sete sis") 1,322,685 16,796 LOW25 17,900 1,800 1,369,306
alkciStamyewen. ctevs os 101,901 94,390 = 3,948 435 200,674
olandurga sci. sc 4,826 68,497 165,449 185,728 = 424,500
SUGINNTST a ork css ss 326,175 459,231 2,431 622 1,473 789,932
VOI Aue ess) «.6)°% = = = 36 = 36

Total .... $1,951,793 $708,654 $212,905 $256,706 $100,339 $3,230,397

or about $5,300,000, plus an estimated $2,000,000 more used for
other purposes last year, was required to meet the costs of
legislated and other uncontrollable increases in federal salaries,
severe increases in utility and rental rates, and the inflationary rise
in prices of other materials and services. An additional $1,805,000
was provided for the work of the Smithsonian Science Information
Exchange, a separately incorporated organization, engaged in re-
cording, classifying and furnishing information on a wide variety
of on-going research projects in such fields as water resources and
medical and environmental studies. Its scope and usefulness has
been expanding rapidly in recent years. The allocation of these
federal operating funds among major categories of Institutional
endeavor may be found in Table 3.

Additional appropriated funds for Smithsonian’s Foreign Cur-
rency Program were greatly reduced in fiscal year 1975 to
$2,000,000, of which $1,000,000 was reserved for the second of
four equal payments to cover the United States’ participation in
UNESCO’s international campaign to preserve archeological monu-
ments on the Island of Philae in Egypt. Remaining amounts of these
blocked foreign currencies allocated to the Smithsonian are awarded
to universities and similar United States organizations to conduct
research studies in a number of foreign countries (see Table 4).

Financial Report / 33
FEDERAL CONSTRUCTION FUNDS

Federal appropriations for construction purposes in fiscal year 1975
amounted to $10,910,000 plus $7,000,000 more toward continued
payments for the new National Air and Space Museum under con-
tract authority provided in fiscal year 1973. The advisability of
completing, over about a ten-year period, the phased renovation of
the National Zoo in accordance with its approved master plan was
given strong recognition in the boost to $9.4 million in funds for
this purpose. This fiscal year 1975 allotment will go toward con-
struction of the new elephant and bird house environs and an
education and administration building. The $1.5 million granted
toward restoration and renovation of buildings will, among other
things, provide for installation of fire control systems, repairs to
the old Arts and Industries Building, and improvements to the
unsightly grounds south of the “Old Castle” Building.

GRANTS AND CONTRACTS

In recent years a major portion of the research projects of the In-
stitution have been funded by grants and contracts from federal
agencies, and in fiscal year 1975 this contribution increased signif-
icantly to more than $12 million. As detailed in Table 2, the sci-
ence programs of the Institution benefited in largest measure; the
Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory accounted for more than
one-half of these funds, receiving support from the National
Aeronautics and Space Administration for such projects as a Dop-
pler tracking experiment for the Apollo-Soyuz project, meteor
studies, and the satellite tracking program. Other awards to the
Smithsonian covered such diverse programs as investigations on
endangered plant species and a study of international oil spills to
research on the ethnic origins of man in America and abroad, and
a compilation of the papers of the artist Charles Willson Peale. A
breakdown of the major granting agencies to the Smithsonian,
together with the funds expended over the past four years, is shown
in Table 5.

PRIVATE GRUST, FUNDS

From 1846, the year in which Congress passed legislation establish-
ing the Smithsonian Institution, until 1858, when the first federal

34 / Smithsonian Year 1975
TABLE 5. Grants and Contracts
[In $1,000’s]

Federal Agencies EY ISA EYOHO73: OEY 1974) EY 1975
Atomic Energy Commission ........... $73 $ 76 $ 672 $ 84
Department of Commerce ............. 392 203 184 242
Mepartimentiol Defense 0s. ...60)20 50. 916 969 872 799
Department of Health, Education
aim WWIGUEIGs sels hake heen a ort ee 411 306 261 219
Departmentiof Interior ....5.55....6.¢- 247 230 283 246
Mepariment @f Labor <2... .....0.6 ee: a6! 51 163 87
WenartmentyobeState) . 45.2450 bases s 195 593 1,066 1,549
National Aeronautics and Space
PRSMENISEEARION 6 6 op njoyn 5 eens aungeus oo 4,605 4,923 5,308 7,670
National Endowments for the Arts
MAIS OIMMANILICS 25... 2 eee ees ca ee 35 58 102 420
National Science Foundation ........... 560 957 690 502
QUYINGIE a cies ot GOS OR eRe 643 630 995 474
Pleo tall PI Be coho cha, c.g c- sye sh gtoriciavon’s $8,08 $8,996 $9,996 $12,292

operating funds were appropriated for the use of the Institution
($4,000), the current needs of the Smithsonian were met from the
investment income of James Smithson’s bequest to the American
people. As Congress entrusted additional responsibilities to the
Smithsonian, however, together with the annual appropriations to
fulfill them, the federal portion of the Institution’s budget grew,
exceeding $1,000,000 in 1927 and $10,000,000 in 1963. While the
private resources have also grown substantially since these early
days, the maintenance of the uniquely federal-private nature of the
Smithsonian requires constant efforts to increase our private
sources of income.

In fiscal year 1975, these efforts again met with success, and the
total private funds income to the Institution from gifts, investment
income, revenue-producing activities, fees, and other revenues
totaled $11,007,000 compared to the prior year’s level of
$8,954,000. The private trust funds provided 11 percent of the
total operating support of the Institution, up from 9 percent last
year. In addition, gifts and fund-raising efforts provided $187,000
for plant improvements, principally for the Cooper-Hewitt Museum
(see Table 6).

Financial Report / 35
TaBLeE 6. Total Private Funds Income Fiscal Year 1975
[In $1,000’s]

Unrestricted Purposes

General &
Revenue- Special Restricted
Revenue Sources producing purposes* purposes Total
FOR OPERATING PURPOSES:
Investmentsimere aoc cee Oe. $ 950 $ 3 $1,724 $ 2,677
STU e eoaenevorartne GANAS GID meee olor a sere clcrare 46** 207 4,177 4,430
Revenue-Producing Activities ........ 2,308 - ~ 2,308
Concessions and Miscellaneous ...... 228 541 636 1,405
Total Operating Funds ........ $3,532 $751 $6,537 $10,820
FOR PLANT: at
Gifts—
Anacostia Neighborhood Museum .. $ ~— $ - $ 10 Se apie)
Chesapeake Bay Center ............ ~ - 15 15
Cooper-Hewitt Museum ........... - - il 51
TotaliGikts: Wee ache pisce eeeriacen = $20 $76 Sere
Miscellaneous—
Cooper-Hewitt Museum ........... $ - $ - $ 111 Gh Tiga
Totals Plant, a. weet ser oy Oil $ 187 Sih 187
GrandTotalh yy ier cians eae. $3,532 $751 $6,724 $11,007

* Represents unrestricted income designated by management to be used only for specific
purposes.

** Excluding $145,000 gifts to Associates and $2,000 gifts to Press (included under Revenue-
Producing Activities).

Unrestricted Private Funds

In fiscal year 1975 the Institution was able to continue last year’s
pattern of generating unrestricted income excess to its immediate
operating needs. While administrative expenses grew, along with
the number of research and museum projects dependent on these
unrestricted funds, it was nevertheless possible to take a major step
toward our goal of building the Institution’s endowments by a
transfer of $1,442,000 from current into unrestricted endowment
funds. It is our intention to make similar transfers annually to the

36 / Smithsonian Year 1975

extent compatible with current needs, in order to strengthen the
Institution’s private resources for the future.

As shown in Table 7, total unrestricted income rose 20 percent
this past year to a record level of $3,532,000. Despite a propor-
tionately large rise in administrative expense due to salary in-

Taste 7. Unrestricted Private Funds
General and Revenue-Producing Activities

(Excluding Special Purpose Funds and Gifts to Endowment)
[In $1,000’s]

Item FY 1972 FY 1973 FY 1974 FY 1975
INCOME
General Income:
RESKE SEMACTIES Be liye mise snc’ gs, wuss. Gauss 3 $ 334 $ 436 $ 744 $ 950
Gibe + ets le ee rere 26 33 151 46
Concessions and Miscellaneous. . 197 374 284 228
Total General Income ...... 557 843 184279 1,224
Revenue-Producing Activities:
PCE OCIALCS EES. 0 ie ita oe ek: 76 287 1,590 1,968
SSTES jo oye Rae eee 19 47 226 417
Zou: a) a (111) (109) (89) (96)
Rerrorming Arts! 3..o0i% 2.554... (50) (65) 104 (79)
Product Development .......... - 69 37 218
rer VNCHVItIES: <4). 2-5 sees ose « (75) (59) (98) (120)
MotaleNctivities: ...-. +... << (141) 170 LTO 2,308
MoatalsinGome oo sco ose. 416 1,013 2,949 es ye eA
EXPENDITURES
Administrative Expense .......... 2,956 3,097 3,957 4,780
Less Administrative Recovery ..... 2,639 DEG? 3,345 3,644
Net Administrative Expense .... 317 325 612 1,136
Net Gain (Loss) Before Transfers .. 99 688 25337 2,396
Less Transfers:
Siow cata takes ke ciclecor 2 ave. e.cve(e Sato - - 1,134 97
Moamendowment scoens.ss o56- 21 alt 121 1,463
TRE CG en eee Aa 17 124 307 546
Net Gain (Loss) After Transfers ... 61 543 775 290
Examine, Aaldnce . ... 3. wos a sp oes $1,781 $2,292* $3,477* $3,767

* Adjusted to reflect reclassification to Plant Funds of $32,000 net investment in
capitalized equipment in fiscal year 1974 and $410,000 reclassification from Plant
Funds to Current Funds in fiscal year 1975.

Financial Report / 37
creases, other inflationary pressures, and a greater number of
allotments to Smithsonian bureaux for special needs, the net gain
before transfers for special purposes was nevertheless higher than
last year. These transfers, described below, also exceeded those of
the prior year, but left some $290,000 to be added to the un-
restricted fund balance at year’s end, raising it to $3,767,000, a
level more compatible with the Institution’s working capital needs.

Investment income, partly from unrestricted endowment and
partly from short-term investment of current funds, increased to
$950,000 this past year; of this income, however, approximately
$190,000 was transferred to Smithsonian bureaux as interest on
their restricted-purpose fund balances. Unrestricted gift income
decreased, indicating once again the difficulty of obtaining support
for general purposes. As has been the case in the prior two years,
the major contributors to the Institution’s unrestricted budget were
the educational and revenue-producing activities, which have
proven able, not only to cover their costs in extending Smithsonian
programs beyond the geographical limits of Washington, but also
to generate funds to supplement other research and museum pro-
grams of the Institution.

The Associates program, now ten years old, offers its various
categories of members such benefits as tours, lectures, exhibit
openings, special restaurant facilities, courses of study, discounts
on Museum Shop merchandise, and, of course, the Smithsonian
magazine. This program, with a membership in excess of 900,000
at year’s end, is enabling the Smithsonian to subsidize important
research projects for which funds would not otherwise be available,
as well as to improve our educational services to the public. Due
in large measure to the success of this program, the Institution will
be able to construct special facilities in Washington during the
Bicentennial year to welcome the ever-increasing number of visitors
to our museums.

Substantial investments of time and money in the Museum
Shops, to improve the quality and relevance of the merchandise as
well as the physical design of the shops themselves, has resulted
in a further gain in net income, to a level of $417,000. One-third of
these gains ($139,000) was transferred directly back to the in-
dividual museums in which the shops are located for public educa-
tion programs and purchases for the collections. The Product

38 / Smithsonian Year 1975
Development Program received net royalties of $218,000 from the
sale by outside manufacturers of licensed products developed in
concert with Smithsonian staff and related to the national collec-
tions. As with Museum Shops’ gains, distributions were made to
participating bureaux totaling $83,000. Detail on these and other
activities is shown in Table 8.

From the net gain of $2,396,000, transfers were made as noted
above to Endowment ($1,442,000 to Unrestricted, and $21,000 to
Restricted Endowment), and to the Bureaux from Revenue-Pro-
ducing Activities ($222,000). In addition, transfers were made for
land acquisition at the Chesapeake Bay Center ($97,000), operation
of the Cooper-Hewitt Museum ($34,000), special research grants
to Smithsonian scientists ($102,000), payment of interest to bureaux
on their restricted and special purpose funds ($194,000), and
miscellaneous incoming transfers of $6,000.

TABLE 8. Revenue-Producing Activities for Fiscal Year 1975
[In $1,000’s]

Smith-
Mu- Smith-  sonian Per- Product
seum sonian  Asso- forming Devel-
Item Total Shops Press*  ciates Arts opment Other**
Sales and Revenues .. $18,459 $3,211 $189 $13,524 $436 $302 $797
Less Cost of Sales ... 8,310 1,802 169 5,977: 68 = 294
Gross Income . 10,149 1,409 20 7,547 368 302 503
‘Gut! yoo seen eee 147 - 2 145 = - =
Other Income ...... 196 10 74 Al 43 — 28
Total Income . 10,492 1,419 96 aoe All 302 ei
EX DEMSCSES os.. « accpe.c.0 « 7,563 902 180 5,352 442 79 608
Administrative Costs 621 100 Al, 413 48 5 43
Income (Loss) Before

inanSteLs wi... > + 2,308 417 (96) 1,968 (79) 218 (120)
Less Transfers ...... 219 139 5 _ — 83n5% (3)

Net Income (Loss) .. $ 2,089 $278 $(96) $1,968 $(79) S135) 5 S (L107)

* The privately funded activities of the Press as opposed to the federally supported publica-
tion of research papers.

** Includes Traveling Exhibitions, Belmont Conference Center, Photo Sales, ‘“Commons”
Restaurant, Center for Short-Lived Phenomena, Special Publications and Television
Programs.

*** Allocations to the Smithsonian bureaux participating in this program.

Financial Report / 39
Special Purpose funds are set out separately in Table 6 as well
as in Table 2. These moneys include unrestricted gifts to particular
bureaux ($207,000) and receipts from various bureau enterprises
($541,000), such as parking at the National Zoological Park or sale
of commemorative envelopes at the National Air and Space
Museum, which are then reserved for improvement of facilities or
exhibits. The balance of these funds at June 30, 1975, was
$1,071,000, compared with $460,000 in 1974. This substantial in-
crease, despite the use of more than $500,000 of such funds for
numerous bureaux as shown in Table 2, reflects both the income
noted above as well as the transfers from Revenue-Producing
Activities and the payment of interest on fund balances.

Restricted Private Funds

The Institution also received $6,537,000 in fiscal year 1975 for a
wide variety of specified, or “restricted,” operating purposes, as
compared to $4,266,000 in fiscal year 1974. This total includes
gifts and grants of $4,177,000, endowment income of $1,724,000,
and miscellaneous revenues of $636,000; a partial breakdown show-
ing the principal recipients appears in Table 9.

Endowment income provided the major operating support for
the Freer Gallery of Art and the Fort Pierce Bureau, with the re-
mainder of the endowment funds (outlined below) benefiting
projects throughout the Institution. The gifts and grants to the
Institution are far too numerous to describe fully, although a
partial listing of donors follows this report. Their support to the
restricted funds, however, provided the greater portion of the
operating budgets of the Cooper-Hewitt Museum of Decorative
Arts and Design and Hillwood, the former estate of Mrs. Marjorie
Merriweather Post. Major support was provided to the National
Air and Space Museum by gifts from the Summa Corporation for
general exhibits purposes and from the German Federal Republic
for construction and equipping of its new Spacearium; these gifts
are of immense value to the Institution in its commitment to open
this museum on July 4, 1976. Another Bicentennial project which
received important funding was the Division of Performing Arts

40 / Smithsonian Year 1975

SR oe Se nan a A Se ga |

re eo ee
TABLE 9. Restricted Operating Private Funds,* Fiscal Year 1975
[In $1,000’s]

Teenie Netin- Fund
Trans- crease balance
Invest- Miscel- Total Deduc-fersin (de- end of
Fund ment Gifts laneousincome tions (out) crease) year
Archives of American Art ...... Sipiy4 1S) 122) 1$26391S" 289) ($i. 212), $39) 6 a6) $ 321
National Museum of History
and Technology:
American Banking Exhibit .... ~ 115 ~ 115 111 ~ 4 272
American Maritime Hall ...... - 182 - 182 179 16 19 185
Cooper-Hewitt Museum:
PEKAHONS fijccc cas oe yee wees 6 74 27 107 228 121 - -
Funds for Collections
and other
Special Purpose Funds ........ - 283 5 288 70 6 224 806
Division of Performing Arts .... - 707 ~ 707 303 3 407 342
Eortebierce) BULCAU ..a...06+65%% 525 - 1 526 645 (68) (187) 5
Freer Gallery BRN Uclavers stele: cxetornien ae 839 12 169 1,020 1,088 Zz (66) 125
len keoaral "S46 es eee ere ae = 517 15 532 512 (1) 19 98
National Air & Space Museum .. - 814 30 844 142 AS 717 780
Woodrow Wilson Center** ..... ~ 448 2 450 198 8 (5) 247 241
CUR so Season eee 350 1,003 124 1,477 1,339 (66) 72 1,199
Total Restricted Funds ... $1,724 $4,177 $636 $6,537 $5,027 $62 $1,572 $4,374

* Excluding Grants and Contracts shown in Table 5 and also Restricted Plant Funds included in Table 6.
** Included herein even though federal funds of the Center are not a part of this report, since the Smith-
sonian is by legislative act the official recipient and custodian.

which plans an extended Festival of American Folklife in the
summer of 1976; grants from General Foods Corporation and
American Airlines are reflected in Table 9, with further payments
from these corporations expected in fiscal year 1976. Generous
support received from inland waterways transportation firms is
making possible further progress toward the building of an
exciting new American Maritime Hall in the National Museum of
History and Technology.

The Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars re-
ceived substantial grants both for on-going projects as well as for
the establishment of the new Institute for Advanced Russian
Studies, announced during this past year.

Miscellaneous receipts from the Freer Gallery sales desk and

Financial Report / 41

special fund-raising activities of the Archives of American Art
gave significant assistance to those programs.

As mentioned on page 35, another $187,000 of restricted funds
was also received for plant construction purposes, principally for
renovation of the Carnegie Mansion, new home of the Cooper-
Hewitt Museum. An additional $1,000,000 for this purpose is still
being sought.

Endowment Funds

The Smithsonian endowment funds had a market value on June
30, 1975, of $41,939,000. They consist of the Freer Fund, whose
income is used solely by the Freer Gallery of Art; Endowment
Fund No. 3, which supports oceanographic research at the Fort
Pierce Bureau in Florida; other restricted funds, maintaining a
large number of research projects; and unrestricted funds. As of
July 1, 1974, all Smithsonian endowment funds, exclusive of
$1,000,000 held in perpetuity in the U. S. Treasury, and some
$72,700 of miscellaneous securities, were pooled into the Con-
solidated Endowment Fund in order to facilitate investment man-
agement; separate accounting and administration continues, how-
ever, to be maintained on each fund in this pool. Table 10 shows
the market values of these funds since 1971, reflecting additions
from donations and reinvestment of income, limited withdrawals,
and changes in securities valuations.

The investment of the endowment funds of the Institution is
managed by three professional advisory firms, under the close

Taste 10. Market Value of Endowment Funds
[In $1,000’s]

Fund 6/30/71 6/30/72 6/30/73 6/30/74 6/30/75
ETeer terse oe oer $18,805 $21,973 $18,279 $14,250 $15,744
Endowment No. 3 ...... 12,331 14,641 13,196 11,128 isa
Unrestricted funds ..... 4,404 5,102 4,759 3,906 5,654
Restricted funds ....... 7,066 8,185 7,634 6,266 7,148

otal 2 scree acke $42,606 $49,901 $43,868 $35,550 $40,867

42 / Smithsonian Year 1975

surveillance of the Investment Policy Committee and the Treasurer,
and subject to policy guidelines set by the Smithsonian’s Board of
Regents. In 1972 the Board of Regents adopted the total return
policy, under which the income paid to each endowment fund in
the subsequent fiscal year is determined each March 31 by com-
puting 442 percent of the running five-year average of market
values, adjusted for additions or withdrawals of capital. By select-
ing a fixed rate of return, regardless of what the actual yield may
be, the investment advisors may select securities for growth as
well as present yield, without being limited by the need to achieve
a specified dividend and interest income level.

One of the goals of the Smithsonian administration has been to
increase our endowment funds, particularly those for unrestricted
uses, which are still minimal in relation to the size of the Institu-
tion, providing only a small fraction of one percent of the total
operating income. Due to the unrestricted current funds surplus
achieved for fiscal year 1975, it was possible, as described above, to
transfer $1,422,000 into the unrestricted endowment funds, and
further such transfers will be a major priority in future years.
Table 11 reflects the changes in the endowment funds this past
year due to this transfer, reinvestment of income in certain re-
stricted funds, donations, and stock market action. The substantial
increase in market values over the year of $3,930,000 is attribu-

TaBLeE 11. Changes in Endowment Funds for Fiscal Year 1975
[In $1,000’s]

Gifts Interest Increase
Market and and Income in Market
value trans-  divi- paid Sub- market value
Fund 6/30/74 fers dends* out total value 6/30/75
Enagr lirimvel sooo. $14,250 $ — $ 663 $ 839 $14,074 $1,670 $15,744
Endowment
INOW) Genes iD AAS 68 539 S25 11,210 Aga GLA SAIL
Unrestricted
fumasteey.c tae ks 3,906 1,442 186 203 5,331 323 5,654
Restricted
ETN Geena Ose. elow: 6,266 84 316 344 6,322 826 7,148
Miofall’..0ss\. 2 $35,550** $1,594 $1,704 $1,911 $36,937 $3,930 $40,867**

* Income earned less managers’ fees.
** Not including Endowment Funds of $1,000,000 held in U.S. Treasury, carrying 6 percent
interest, nor minor amount of miscellaneous securities treated separately.

Financial Report / 43
TABLE 12. Consolidated Endowment Funds
June 30, 1975

Principal Income
Unex-
Market 1975 pended

Funds participating in pool Book value value Net income balance

|B) RY SH CRUD aAU GATTO RO 6 SIN AUT CORN TA Hur $15,324,967 $15,743,612 $ 839,354 $123,631
ENDOWMEN TINO sie ee ene ae. 12,249,146 12,320,695 525,114 =
UNRESTRICTED FUNDS ....... 5,848,197 5,654,142 203,373 =
RESTRICTED FUNDS:
IAD bOE AV Nlliam tle eee eee 201,567 207,532 10,020 DQ
Archives of American Art* ..... _ - 1,024 -
Armstrong, Edwin James ........ 4,129 3,678 173 -
INNO, EBTOS 6500500000000 000 008 58,605 77,876 3,760 1,563
Bacon, Virginia Purdy ..... 2.25 - 176,767 161,967 7,820 16,532
Baird, Spencer Fullerton ........ 53,885 69,613 3,361 45
Barneys AlicemPikey.% se ecraan ee 42,032 55,806 2,695 7,725
Barstow bredericu Die etter 1,932 1,987 96 1,902
Batcheloremm amie nnee 64,533 Sy) v/s) 2,787 8,854
Beauregard, Catherine

Memontalizundiee aera rear: 73,964 I fo 3,745 4,133
Beckers Georgeuk: teeter awae 303,620 280,334 13,536 307
BoM, IRollerel Wh bb sho oadeonns 48,642 53,224 2,570 8,865
GantireldvwEredericki AVN. 3 een ee 55,035 85,801 4,143 1,893
GaseyA thomas lkincolnijemcieee 24,241 25,001 1-207, 3,063
Ghamiberlains Enancesiileausnancae 41,269 54,794 2,646 5,959
Cooper, G. Arthur, Curator’s Fund 3,144 3,003 130 -
Cooper-Hewitt Museum ........ 5 225i 134,564 6,497 =
lOxeeamiale, TPapll TE. Woodeobeads de 11,645 12,627 198 -
Div. of Mammals Curator Fund. .. 3,205 3,182 154 1,382
Div. of Reptiles Curator Fund ... 959 941 45 141
Draken iGarliyounes sere icatrs eae 277,202 262,355 12,508 30,209
Dykes, Gharlesita sa center ire 83,258 85,827 4,144 16,622
Eickemeyer, Florence Brevoort ... 15,930 2ileAD, 1,021 3,315
Guggenheim, David and Florence .. 228,910 199,823 9,648 -
Hanson, Martin Gustav and

Garolinem@Runicel see eeee ee eee 17,192 7722, 856 E27,
Henderson, Edward P.,

Meteoritemeundaen eee ee 590 692 33 33
Hillyer, Virgil Suh een ennsy eden saneene ede 12,711 13,111 633 3,402
laterals, sll’ Sy ooonodooane 2,308 3,119 151 236
Hrdlicka, Ales and Marie ....... 90,934 96,952 4,681 5,606
Hughesn Bruceiwevos.. shee ak 28,046 37,288 1,800 24,096
Johnson; Es Ro Eenimorel.. eo. 15,706 ale) all 634 5,366
Kellogg, Remington, Memorial ... 46,668 38,189 1,835 3,278
Lindsey jessie Hamann. sine ace 560 548 26 1,030
Moeb, wMOrrist.. seven. krone 168,848 175,769 8,487 437
Long, Annette E. and Edith C. ... 794 1,085 52 284
Lyons, Marcus “Ward 3255252223 8,424 7,084 342 -
Maxwell) Mary, Eo js) c:s-uaee ye eit 28,741 38,205 1,845 7,806
Myer, Catherine Walden ........ 39,074 40,283 1,945 3,625

44 / Smithsonian Year 1975

TABLE 12. Consolidated Endowment Funds
June 30, 1975—continued

Principal Income

Unex-

Market 1975 pended

Funds participating in pool Book value value Net income balance
Nelson, Edward William ....... SoFISS 43,264 2,089 2,089
Moves t rtank B. =... 2.00.25. es 1,874 2,030 98 1,335
| Pell, Cornelia Livingston ....... 14,349 14,871 718 3,067
| Petrocelli, Joseph, Memorial .... 10,858 14,491 700 7,883

Ramsey, Admiral and Mrs.

WewWatteGlinton. 3.4. <5 <0. «+; 507,359 430,685 20,759 26,237
Rathbun, Richard, Memorial .... 20,584 21,308 1,029 11,785
Reta AG GISOM ‘Tis jo. eke ee « 34,396 35,456 abla 2,323
Roebling Collection ............ 176,974 233,713 11,284 -
Roebling Solar Research ....... 47,877 45,813 2212 -
Rollins, Miriam and William ... 290,173 337,235 16,078 956
IRemriberthal Mo cc secee voces cs 61,253 51,136 2,469 3,599
Smithsonian Agency Account .... 200,933 173,087 7,891 —
Sprague, Joseph White ......... 2,128,377 2,028,893 96,734 25,405
Spon eyeres L209) ee ee ee 26,282 34,875 1,684 21,810
SEEVENSONPAVONMwWA.. 15.26 <.06 << 9,052 9,475 458 458
Strong, |pelitizy TDs eee een 19,348 20,023 967 4,726
ereeebublications Inc. ...+..... 16,793 L6;213 eS 7,894
WalcottGhanless D2... 2200863 os. 185,976 210,940 10,057 5,149
Walcott, Charles D. and

Mary IWicl CIS Pee PENA ooh o0a%s 674,384 894,812 43,205 11,417
Walcott Botanical Publications ... 85,193 108,546 5,241 2,643
Herbee serancis brinckle’......... 1,392 1,833 89 1,807

Total Restricted Funds .... $ 6,935,901 $ 7,148,221 $ 343,437 $312,296
Total Consolidated
Endowment Funds ........ $40,358,211 $40,866,670 $1,911,278 $435,927

* Transferred to Current Funds 6/30/75; Book Value $20,925, Market Value $21,106.

table primarily to the sharp upswing in the stock market, and the
Smithsonian funds performed somewhat better during this period

than the generally accepted market indexes.

Income of $1,911,000, net of managers and custodial fees, was
paid out during the year under the total return policy, which was
$207,000 in excess of actual dividend and interest yield. A break-
down of the income to the various funds participating in the Con-
solidated Endowment Funds is shown in Table 12, together with

Financial Report / 45
the book and market values of those funds. Table 13 provides
detail on the types of securities held by the Institution. A listing
of the individual investments held in the Consolidated Endowment
Funds at June 30, 1975, may be obtained upon request to the
Treasurer of the Institution.

Taste 13. Endowment and Similar Funds Summary of Investments

Book value Market value
Accounts 6/30/75 6/30/75

INVESTMENT ACCOUNTS

Consolidated Endowment Funds:

GashtandvEgquivalemts....5cceet sete asics 2 ee $ 1,108,888 $ 1,108,888
BOTS Siar re ins et hc ate PON ae 0s ig. Skee 8,072,361 7,717,817
GonvertiblesBondseeeee eee ener eee 2,579,706 2,446,265
SEOGK SWE Setotg cite sre tnear untae Unser UMP RD ene cet Wi eantt ane 28,597,256 29,593,700
"HO Gall i.st5 Sty Rene erace te Se ace ee $40,358,211 $40,866,670
Miscellaneous:
(ETS aig ey ee Nts te le alent $ 731 $ 731
| BLO} qs (fart ee ARNG eh SUBD dts LO Uy ARAN CRT Ue Ue 9,769 9,600
Common’ Stocks eee eae er a aes 3,572 13,987
LR Beall ene de oc tO POP Se ceo MPM oh $ 14,072 $ 24,318
otaleinvestmentsmAccountsme aan eee $40,372,283 $40,890,988
Other Accounts:
INotes Receivable sceienis) apn eee wil rerocie eke $ 48,354 $ 48,354
Koan) tonW:5S) dreasuny, in) Rerpetuity 4-6 e- - ee ee 1,000,000 1,000,000
otalk@thenwNccountsmeee eee eee eee $ 1,048,354 $ 1,048,354
Total Endowment and Similar Fund Balances ..... $41,420,637 $41,939,342

Accounting and Auditing

The Private Trust Funds of the Institution, as well as the accounts
of Smithsonian Science Information Exchange, Inc., the Smith-
sonian Research Foundation, and Reading Is Fundamental, Inc., are
audited annually by independent public accountants. Their report
for fiscal year 1975 on the Smithsonian is contained in the fol-
lowing pages, including a comparative balance sheet and a state-
ment of changes in the various fund balances.

46 / Smithsonian Year 1975

The Defense Contract Audit Agency annually performs an audit
on grant and contract moneys received from federal agencies. In
addition, the federally appropriated funds of the Institution are
subject to audit by the General Accounting Office. The internal
audit staff continues to conduct audits throughout the wide range
of Smithsonian activities and contributes greatly to smooth ad-
ministrative and financial management.

Gifts and Bequests to the Smithsonian ;

The Smithsonian Institution gratefully acknowledges gifts and
bequests received during fiscal year 1975 from the following:

$100,000 or more:

Hillwood Trust

S. C. Johnson & Son, Inc.

Mobil Foundation, Inc.

The Marjorie Merriweather Post
Foundation of D. C.

Summa Corporation

American Bankers Association
American Airlines, Incorporated
Anonymous

Federal Republic of Germany
General Foods Corporation

$10,000 or more:

American Commercial Barge Line
Company

American Telephone and Telegraph
Company

The Arcadia Foundation

Atlantic Richfield Foundation

The Brown Foundation

The Morris & Gwendolyn Cafritz
Foundation

CBS Foundation, Inc.

Charron Foundation

Continental Grain Company

Mrs. David Craven

Crowley Maritime Corporation

Doubleday & Company, Inc.

The Henry L. and Grace Doherty
Charitable Foundation, Inc.

The Charles Engelhard Foundation

The Eppley Foundation for Research

The T. M. Evans Foundation

Exxon Corporation

Firestone Foundation

The Ford Foundation

The General Electric Foundation

Mary L. Griggs and Mary G. Burke
Foundation

The Hillman Foundation, Inc.

Interdisciplinary Communication
Associates, Inc.

The J. M. Kaplan Fund, Inc.

Lake Carriers’ Associations

The Robert Lehman Foundation

Howard and Jean Lipman
Foundation, Inc.

Mr. Vasco McCoy, Jr.

State of Mississippi

Mobil Oil Corporation

National Geographic Society

New York State Council on the Arts

Edward John Noble Foundation

Financial Report / 47
$10,000 or more—continued

Mr. and Mrs. David Packard

Pepsi Cola Company Foundation, Inc.

Phelps-Dodge Corporation

Marjorie Merriweather Post
Foundation u/a dated July 20, 1956

The Relm Foundation

Rockefeller Brothers Fund

Estate of Gertrude Sampson

Sears, Roebuck and Company

St. Lawrence Seaway Commission

Surdna Foundation, Inc.

The Allie L. Sylvester Fund, Inc.

The Tobacco Institute, Inc.

United Seamen’s Service

Dr. and Mrs. Jeremy P. Waletsky

Matilda R. Wilson Fund

The Women’s Committee of the
Smithsonian Associates

World Wildlife Fund

Xerox Corporation

$1,000 or more:

The Ahmanson Foundation

Alcoa Foundation

American Can Company Foundation

Allied Chemical Foundation

American Express Foundation

American College of Dentistry

American Institute of Marine
Underwriters

American Institute of Merchant
Shipping

American Law Institute

American Metal Climax
Foundation, Inc.

American National Standard Institute

American Studies Association

Amoco Foundation, Inc.

The Annenberg School of
Communications

Anonymous

Miss Amelia E. Anthony

Arthur-Smith Corporation

Ashland Oil, Inc.

AVCO Corporation

The Barra Foundation, Inc.

Mrs. Frederic C. Bartlett

The Bass Foundation

Bath Iron Works Corporation

Battelle Laboratories

The Bedminster Fund, Inc.

Beneficial Foundation

Bethlehem Steel Corporation

Miss Helen Bissell

Dr. and Mrs. Arthur Bloom

Mrs. Beulah Boyd

Mr. Daniel J. Boorstin

The Boswell Oil Company

48 / Smithsonian Year 1975

The Bundy Foundation

Dr. and Mrs. I. F. Burton
Canal Barge Company, Inc.
Cargo Carriers, Inc.

Carter Hawley Hale Stores, Inc.
Caterpillar Tractor Company
Mrs. David Challinor

Chase Manhattan Bank

Mr. Peter B. Clark

The Coca Cola Company
Community Funds, Inc.
Continental Oil Company
Mrs. Adolph Coors III
Copernicus Society

Corning Glass Works

Dr. William H. Crocker

Dr. and Mrs. Burrill Crohn
Dana Corporation Foundation
Mr. Paul L. Davies

Deere & Company

Mr. and Mrs. Henry H. Dewar
Dow Chemical U.S.A.

Elsie DeWolfe Foundation
Dixie Carriers, Inc.

Mr. Joseph W. Donner

Ms. Ann Dreyfuss

Mr. John A. Dreyfuss

Earhart Foundation

The Ferdinand Eberstadt Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. Joel S. Ehrenkranz
Miss Edith Ehrman

E] Paso Natural Gas Company
Mr. Alfred U. Elser, Jr.

Milton S. Erlanger, Trust

Esso Middle East

Farrell Lines, Inc.
$1,000 or more—continued

Fieldcrest Mills, Inc.

First National Bank in Palm Beach

Mr. and Mrs. Benson Ford

Mrs. Edsel Ford

Mr. and Mrs. Walter B. Ford II

Ford Motor Company Fund

General Telephone & Electronics
Foundation

Sumner Gerard Foundation

The Gilman Foundation

Gladders Barge Line, Inc.

Mr. Alfred C. J. Glassell, Jr.

Josephine Graf Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Rudolph F. Greiser

Mr. Chaim Gross

Mr. M. D. Guiness

Hallmark Educational Foundation

Mrs. Anne B. Harrison

Mr. and Mrs. John Davis Hatch

Mrs. Enid A. Haupt

The Hecht Company

Mr. Henry J. Heinz II

Mr. C. Heurich, Jr.

Mr. Louis W. Hill, Jr.

Hiram Walker & Sons, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. James Stewart Hooker

Imperial Embassy of Iran

The Institute for Intercultural
Studies, Inc.

Institute of Psychiatry & Foreign
Affairs

Interstate Oil Transport Company

International Association of Plant
Taxonomy

International Council for Bird
Preservation Pan American Section

Mr. James E. Jarnagin

Mr. and Mrs. C. S. Justman

Edgar J. Kaufmann Charitable
Foundation

Mrs. Harold J. Kersten

Samuel H. Kress Foundation

Mrs. Morris A. Levy

Mr. Harold F. Linder

The Link Foundation

Mrs. Kathleen S. Louchheim

S. C. Loveland, Co., Inc.

Mrs. Percy C. Madeira, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Edward P. Maffitt

Maritime Overseas Corporation

Mr. Lawrence K. Marshall

Mr. and Mrs. William A. Marsteller

Chauncey and Marion Deering
McCormick Foundation

Honorable and Mrs. George McGhee

McGraw Hill, Inc.

Mrs. Nancy M. McNeil

Mr. Robert L. McNeil, Jr.

Merck & Company

Mrs. Margaret Carnegie Miller

Mrs. Irene Morden

National Bank of Detroit

National Steel & Shipbuilding
Company

Newport News Shipbuilding

Olin Corporation Charitable Trust

Mr. and Mrs. Dan Oppenheimer

Optimus Productions Ltd.

PACCAR Foundation

J. C. Penney Company, Inc.

James C. Penney Foundation, Inc.

Philip Morris Incorporated

The Pioneer Foundation, Inc.

Propeller Club, Port of New York

Mr. and Mrs. William L. Richards

Anne S. Richardson Fund

Josephine C. Robinson Foundation

Estate of Berenice Schwieder

Security Storage Company of
Washington

Misses Elsie and Dorothy Shaver

Mr. and Mrs. Alger Shelden

Shipbuilders Council of America

The Sidney Printing and Publishing
Company

Mr. Charles Simons

Mrs. Frances F. Smith

Mr. and Mrs. James K. Smith

Standard Oil Company of California

Mrs. Shirley Watkins Stein

Mr. and Mrs. Mark Stevens

The Symonds Foundation

Tauber Oil Company

Mr. and Mrs. Bertrand L. Taylor III

Time Incorporated

Trust Company of Georgia
Foundation

T.R.W. Foundation, Inc.

Financial Report / 49
$1,000 or more—continued

UNESCO

Union Mechling Corporation
University of Michigan

University of Washington

Walco National Corporation

Mr. Richard W. Weatherhead
Ellen Bayard Weedon Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Weinstein
Mr. Royce S. Weisenberger, Jr.
Westinghouse Electric Corporation

WGBH Public Broadcasting, Boston

Ms. Gail D. Wilson

Woodward and Lothrop, Inc.

Woolworth and Woolco Stores

Worthington Sales Company

Charles W. Wright Foundation of
Badger Meter, Inc.

Young Men’s Christian Association

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Zell

$500 or more:

Mr. and Mrs. Philip W. Amram
Mr. Thomas D. Anderson
Anonymous

Arizona Historical Society

Mr. and Mrs. James C. Barbour

Mr. and Mrs. Bernhard G. Bechhoefer

Mr. and Mrs. Roger K. Becker
Mr. and Mrs. John M. Begg

Mr. and Mrs. Spencer M. Berger
Mr. and Mrs. J. Pierre Bernard
Mr. Frank E. Bevens, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. C. William Bliss
Bloomingdale Brothers

Mrs. Neville J. Booker

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph E. Brown
Dr. Erika Bruck

Dr. and Mrs. Curt F. Buhler

Mr. and Mrs. Edward P. Bullock
Mr. Hugh Bullock

Campbell Barge Line, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. William F. Cassidy
Mr. and Mrs. Blair Childs
Copley Newspapers

Mr. Julien Cornell

Mr. and Mrs. F. W. Corwin

Mr. and Mrs. George L. Craig
Mr. and Mrs. B. W. Crain, Jr.
Mrs. Allerton Cushman

Mr. and Mrs. Ray H. Davies
Dr. and Mrs. B. N. Desenberg
Dr. and Mrs. Lowell R. Ditzen
Mr. and Mrs. Leonard G. Doak
Mr. and Mrs. Edward Edgar
Mr. and Mrs. Herbert R. Elsas
Mr. and Mrs. Ralph W. Farr
First National Bank of Boston

50 / Smithsonian Year 1975

Mr. and Mrs. Sebastian Gaeta

General Agents and Managers
Conference of N.A.L.V.

Mr. and Mrs. W. T. Gillham

Mr. Herbert R. Glaser

Reverend and Mrs. C. Leslie Glenn

Mr. Frederick R. Goff

The B. F. Goodrich Company

Mr. and Mrs. William A. Gordon

Mr. Gilbert Greenway

Mr. and Mrs. T. R. Grosvenor

Mr. and Mrs. William A. Henry

Mrs. Maxine Harrison

Estate of Calvin Hathaway

Mr. and Mrs. Curtis L. Hillyer

Mr. and Mrs. Albert G. Hoffman

Mr. and Mrs. Hugh H. Honnen

Mr. and Mrs. Samuel G. Houghton

Miss Dora Ide

Mr. and Mrs. Frank N. Ikard

Irving One Wall Street

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph D. Isaacson

Mr. William Jamison

Mr. and Mrs. B. F. Jones

Atwater Kent Foundation, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Morris Ketchum

Mr. and Mrs. Edward F. Knight

Mr. and Mrs. Peter Knowles

Mr. and Mrs. Paul Laurenson

Mr. and Mrs. Owen S. Lindsay

Mr. and Mrs. Martin L. Loftus

James A. MacDonald Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. John P. Mackinnon

Mrs. Frances D. Martyn

Maxon Marine Industries, Inc.

Mr. Donald Mayer
$500 or more—continued

Mr. and Mrs. John Mayer

Mr. D. F. McClathey

Mr. James R. McCredie

Dr. and Mrs. Leo A. McNalley
Mr. and Mrs. Harold W. Metz
Mr. and Mrs. William J. Milton
Dr. and Mrs. Charles Morgan
Mr. and Mrs. James H. Morgan
Mr. and Mrs. James D. Munro
Ogden Marine Inc.

Mr. Robert S. Pace

Mr. and Mrs. Pierre Palmentier
Miss Blanche Parseghian

Mr. and Mrs. Chester R. Paulson
Mr. and Mrs. H. M. Peterson
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph F. Porter
Presentation Studios

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Probst
Miss Elsie H. Quinby

Miss Margaret Rathbone

Miss Caroline S. Reed

Mr. and Mrs. John S. Reese
Mr. and Mrs. Sargent Reynolds
Miss Esther M. Ridder

Mr. and Mrs. Eugene Roberts
Mr. and Mrs. Daniel Rogers

Mr. and Mrs. John L. Rogers
Saks Fifth Avenue, Chevy Chase
Miss Frances Van Schaich

Mrs. Alice S. Schwabe

The Schiff Foundation

Seamen’s Bank of Savings

Mr. and Mrs. H. L. Selinsky

Mr. Sidney N. Shure

Mr. and Mrs. L. T. Sloane

Mr. and Mrs. Page W. Smith
Mr. and Mrs. William D. Snyder
Sons of the Revolution

Mr. and Mrs. Harry Stevens
Stroheim & Romann

Dr. Walter A. Stryker

Mr. and Mrs. Alfred E. Tarr
Mr. and Mrs. Bela C. Tifft

Mrs. Arthur M. Tode

Mr. John B. Trevor, Jr.

Dr. Herman J. Viola

Mr. and Mrs. Albert C. Wall
The Raymond John Wean Foundation

We also gratefully acknowledge other contributions in excess of
$400,000 received from more than 5,000 contributors in fiscal

year 1975.

Financial Report / 51
The 1975 Smithsonian Catalogue (foreground) offers a wide variety
of Smithsonian Museum Shop merchandise by mail.
PEAT, MARWICK, MITCHELL & CO.
CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS

1025 CONNECTICUT AVENUE, N. W.
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20036

The Board of Regents
Smithsonian Institution:

We have examined the balance sheet of the Private Funds of Smith-
sonian Institution as of June 30, 1975 and the related statement of
changes in fund balances for the year then ended. Such statements
do not include the accounts of the National Gallery of Art, the John
F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts, nor other departments,
bureaus and operations administered by the Institution under
Federal appropriations as detailed in note 2 to the financial state-
ments. Our examination was made in accordance with generally
accepted auditing standards, and accordingly included such tests
of the accounting records and such other auditing procedures as we
considered necessary in the circumstances.

In our opinion, the aforementioned financial statements present
fairly the financial position of the Private Funds of Smithsonian
Institution at June 30, 1975 and the changes in its fund balances
for the year then ended, in conformity with generally accepted
accounting principles applied on a basis consistent with that of the
preceding year.
PEAT, MARWICK, MITCHELL & CO.
September 5, 1975

Financial Report / 53
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION—PRIVATE FUNDS

Balance Sheet

June 30, 1975
(with comparative figures for 1974)

1974
Assets 1975 (note Ib)
CURRENT FUNDS:
Cash:
Ine WS re asury, irae cc wig states cuevheuse ares! aesienaike $ 543,741 139,352
Inubanksrancduonehanduare ener 234,479 651,485
Motalicas hie. sea eo eae lena) oaks 778,220 790,837
Investmentss(note.3) sce ease geerau cocina wee omar 10,149,875 8,298,318
Receivables:
Accounts, less allowance for doubtful accounts
of $340,000 ($200,000 in NOTA) Psa hn Weiceie wai 1,882,057 1,247,671
Advances—travel and other) 1.252. c5eon eae. 454,775 203,705
Reimbursement—grants and contracts, net ..... 2,271,060 2,261,103
Due from agency tundsy sige lacie setae ee 246,032 136,151
Motaléreceivablesnisn nen oh oh ee 4,853,924 3,848,630
TnVentOTLeSisicese 5 ee One eee cl See 1,118,688 780,054
Prepatd(-expenses aan nee sata ced eee ae aoe 462,278 420,272
Deferred expenses tis scrsreu tan eeg tres einer a elses 1,749,229 1,208,561
Capitalized improvements and equipment, used in
income producing activities, net of accumulated
depreciation and amortization of $537,538
($4097 830) in PT:974) oe ser area seintaneic cemesrareie cree. 597,610 293,974
MotalectinrentittinG sem eae ie $19,709,824 15,640,646
ENDOWMENT AND SIMILAR FUNDS:
Cash, net of receivables and payables on securities
ELANIS ACTIONS eects ersten aurora oieuema aie cnmealereraiceoets 41,063 506,035
Notes? receivables acento cic nine 48,354 49,966
Dae Bron Chrsale [ANGI Soca dandoococenecaonsane 316,043 239,967
Investments moter) wars cence ae e ee eats oleate eeetcTs 40,015,177 40,043,593
Loan to U. S. Treasury in perpetuity at 6% ....... 1,000,000 1,000,000
Total endowment and similar funds ....... $41,420,637 41,839,561
PLANT FUNDS:
IDywa {Foren Cera INC sao cweoccotasonooudoour 461,266 1,626,468
Realestate (mote sa) rssicon nolaiciens Rewari steuseneusnie 6,230,034 4,790,921
Total plant funds, “iyo tacseusds nl sec ae $ 6,691,300 6,417,389
AGENCY FUNDS:
ImVEStIMEMES aa rein raters auce we eis eae one eaadc chee arene a Cheatsercthats 10,000 10,000
Dtessrommcinnentte htc Sarre ae iin inte ieioiete 386,507 213,100
Votaleacency, funds 0) 40 see qerisne scans ace $ 396,507 223,100

See accompanying notes to financial statements.
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION—PRIVATE FUNDS

Balance Sheet
June 30, 1975

(with comparative figures for 1974)

Liabilities and Fund Balances

CURRENT FUNDS:

Note payable—secured (note 4) ...........-.0055
Accounts payable and accrued liabilities .........
Biremtemmlant LUNGS 6.) 5 ic es ee eee vane we
Bimeee APNE FUNG: oc. ck ose ts wees dawn oes
Due to endowment and similar funds ............
Deferred income:

MacazinelsubScriptiOns) =. 0c... esse ine «oe ©

LOTTE 2 a Sth @egcaeea aC oe eer arora

Morale@liahilities: <2 osceis as ccs acne oe Oe

Fund balances:

Unrestricted:
eMneramULpOSe .sis See. awns ees wares ones
BPA OMIT EOS Ouse le's oc. siatsue ae ana @ nva “us agcnevae

Moralerunnrestricted ean cacao eae

NES DRIGEGC EN sc nuste tate ms Oe ee ae

Maralmtundmehalancesie occ sc cciaerae ie) oe

Matalacur4rent fUNGS 65-0 arsine ers vaamere

ENDOWMENT AND SIMILAR FUNDS:

Fund balances:
[EPROM ORIRGINE a4 SA ope ig cae Blt Dine rec home enc cnc apc
Quasi-endowment:

IRESERIGIGO Mts Soick AO Aa holon teas See
Unrestricted

are abate iawere te ei) 8 afiese’ ee) @) eae janet elena) lai'm

Total quasi-endowment ..................

Total endowment and similar funds .......

PLANT FUNDS:

Mortgage notes payable (note 5) ................
PUMP NMEA EELS care. acs: co eagainhet bec iere\oietee fel allecs! aoe’
Fund balances:

Acquisition fund:

Minrestrctedsciaac ses ie ie ae oe Doe inate

IREGERICLOG Fitri acc here cers araiaeein oak ae roterenonckane

RMMSEMIENE I PUA: a e.cisie Sains <enuxi= seers ees 9's eave

sPatalalantarunas) 1 )s0c 54 scat cases as Aas dae
AGENCY FUNDS:

Pte FE CURCONE LEMS I. 8 visiice=e vipie wen laly, a0 2 ora alls
Deposits held in custody for others ..............

Watalarency funds 2.0004 6440500055565 oe es

1974
1975 (note 1b)
95,920 191,843
3,261,791 2,596,331
461,266 1,626,468
386,507 213,100
316,043 239,967
ByAlsyste il 3,645,757
655,955 334,955
10,393,013 8,848,421
3,767,375 3,476,776
107155 460,544
4,838,530 3,937,320
4,478,281 2,854,905
9,316,811 6,792,225
$19,709,824 15,640,646
33,354,530 34,999,970
2,224,323 2,286,057
5,841,784 4,553,534
8,066,107 6,839,591
$41,420,637 41,839,561
269,718 349,617
10,120 36,832
379,827 625,610
71,319 964,026
451,146 1,589,636
5,960,316 4,441,304
$ 6,691,300 6,417,389
246,032 136,151
150,475 86,949
396,507 223,100

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION—PRIVATE FUNDS
Statement of Changes in Fund Balances
Year ended June 30, 1975

Total Total
current unrestricted
funds funds
REVENUE AND OTHER ADDITIONS:
Auxiliarysenterprisessrevente oo. 2 vasa eee nook outa $18,866,324 18,866,324
Federal crantsnanducontracts 1. ee eae ee eee 12,344,540 -
Investment income (net of $91,886 management and
CustodianvGees Weare nome else ey erate nies 2,396,696 951,143
Gains (losses) "onusalevofs securities s/n vel on de sees aoe oe (14,909) (14,909)
Gifts, bequests, and foundation grants ............2.0..s000- 4,576,523 399,725
Additions tovequity in realyestatene awa teecee ose oulenei eee - -
Rentals teesmanaucommiSSiOnsSmeiiiT a eine ate ee 745,708 745,708
OPM Sr <M SERA eee Nees Sree ee Caen Ca cH ae rem Para OI teh A tra wea Se 881,228 244,626
Motallreventerandiotheradditionsss eee eee eee eee 39,796,110 21,192,617
EXPENDITURES AND OTHER DEDUCTIONS:
Research and educational expenditures ..................... 15,617,194 1,003,767
Administrativesexpendituresi .cty.c:Aa-cnc ae oes eis aa aes 4,099,594 1,528,091
Auxiliary enterprises: expenditures) .......2.2¢os0.0%600+000+0- 16,035,738 16,035,738
Expended for real estate and equipment .................... 123,000 -
RetinementTotmindebtednessmen eee eee ce Cree ene - -
InterestionmInGdebteaness aris cess ancieve a arniaine ar ahe weep alee = ~-
Total expenditures and other deductions ............... 35,875,526 18,567,596
TRANSFERS AMONG FUNDS—ADDITIONS (DEDUCTIONS):
Mandatory—principal and interest on notes ................. (96,894) (96,894)
Portion of investment gain appropriated .................... 295,084 17,078
Income added to endowment principal .................20000. (141,677) -
Appropriated as quasi-endowment ...............ceeeeeeees (1,473,436) (1,463,151)
For designated, purposes sine Sule 2... herd st cteeta wel emionortcherete st = (180,844)
Endowmentuireleased) etycbeqntin sy seo <i ies eerie ie wna ies 20,925 -
INeGtsInecreasexinvaChiVitles alas apsvae uc oeisia eaten eee elie ani aiomroeres - -
Total transfers among funds—additions (deductions) ... (1,395,998) (1,723,811)
Net increase:(decrease) for the year 22. 20:5 .206%.6/s.<5e000,5 060% 2,524,586 901,210
Fund balances at June 30, 1974, as restated (note 1b) .......... 6,792,225 3,937,320
Eundebalancesrzatyune: SOO Setar einer aseie $ 9,316,811 4,838,530

See accompanying notes to financial statements.

56 / Smithsonian Year 1975
Current funds

Unrestricted
Endowment Plant funds

General Special and similar Investment

purpose Activities purpose’ Restricted funds Acquisition in plant
— 18,655,293 211,031 - - = -
= = —- 12,344,540 = = =
948,318 = 2,825 1,445,553 = = =
(14,909) = = = (1,718,330) = =
45,625 146,929 207,171 4,176,798 302 76,443 =
= = = = a = 1,519,012
617,851 = 127,857 - = - -
42,846 = 201,780 636,602 = 110,696 =
1,639,731 18,802,222 750,664 18,603,493 (1,718,028) 187,139 1,519,012
679,405 = 324,362 14,613,427 = = =
888,878 620,700 18,513 2,571,503 = = =
—l5)873,713 162,025 - - = =
= = = 123,000 = 1,316,112 =
= = = - = 79,899 =
= = = = = 26,512 =
1,568,283 16,494,413 504,900 17,307,930 - 1,422,523 =
(96,894) = = = = 96,894 =
17,078 ~ - 278,006 (295,084) - =
- = = (141,677) 141,677 = =
(1,463,151) = = (10,285) 1,473,436 = =
(326,604) (219,087) 364,847 180,844 = = -
= = = 20,925 (20,925) = =
2,088,722 (2,088,722) = = = = =
219 AS (2,307,809) 364,847 327,813 1,299,104 96,894 =
290,599 = 610,611 1,623,376 (418,924) (1,138,490) 1,519,012
3,476,776 — 460,544 2,854,905 41,839,561 1,589,636 4,441,304
= 1,071,155 4,478,281 41,420,637 451,146 5,960,316

3,767,375

Financial Report / 57
Newly renovated Museum Shop in the National Museum of
History and Technology opened to the public in March 1975.
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION—PRIVATE FUNDS
Notes to Financial Statements
June 30, 1975

1. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

a. Accrual Basis—The financial statements of Smithsonian Institution—Private
Funds (note 2) have been prepared on the accrual basis, except for
depreciation of plant fund assets as explained in note 1(h) below, and are
in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles included in
the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants Audit Guide “Audits
of Colleges and Universities.”

b. Current funds include capitalized improvements and equipment used in
income producing activities having a net carrying value of $597,610 and
$293,974 at June 30, 1975 and 1974, respectively. Such assets together with
funds held for additions and liabilities on acquisitions, which were pre-
viously included in plant funds, were reclassified to current unrestricted
funds at the beginning of the 1975 year to better reflect assets and liabilities
used in current operations. Figures for 1974 have been reclassified in the
accompanying balance sheet at June 30, 1974 to put them on a comparable
basis with 1975, resulting in an increase in the current unrestricted fund

balance and a decrease in the plant funds balance of $410,182 at June 30,
1974.

Current funds used to finance the acquisition of plant assets and for
provisions for debt amortization and interest are accounted for as transfers
to the plant fund.

c. Fund Accounting—In order to ensure observance of limitations and re-
strictions placed on the use of the resources available to the Institution,
the accounts of the Institution are maintained in accordance with the
principles of “fund accounting.” This is the procedure by which resources
for various purposes are classified for accounting and reporting purposes
into funds that are in accordance with activities or objectives specified.
Separate accounts are maintained for each fund; however, in the accom-
panying financial statements, funds that have similar characteristics have
been combined into fund groups. Accordingly, all financial transactions
have been recorded and reported by fund group.

Within each fund group, fund balances restricted by outside sources are so
indicated and are distinguished from unrestricted funds allocated to specific
purposes by action of the governing board. Externally restricted funds may
only be utilized in accordance with the purposes established by the source
of such funds and are in contrast with unrestricted funds over which
the governing board retains full control to use in achieving any of its
institutional purposes.

Endowment funds are subject to the restrictions of gift instruments re-
quiring in perpetuity that the principal be invested and the income only be
utilized. Also classified as endowment funds are gifts which will allow the
expenditure of principal but only under certain specified conditions.

Financial Report / 59
While quasi-endowment funds have been established by the governing
board for the same purposes as endowment funds, any portion of such
funds may be expended. Restricted quasi-endowment funds represent gifts
for restricted purposes where there is no stipulation that the principal be
maintained in perpetuity or for a period of time, but the governing board
has elected to invest the principal and expend only the income for the
purpose stipulated by the donor.

All gains and losses arising from the sale, collection, or other disposition
of investments and other noncash assets are accounted for in the fund
which owned such assets. Ordinary income derived from investments,
receivables, and the like, is accounted for in the fund owning such assets,
except for income derived from investments of endowment and similar
funds, which income is accounted for in the fund to which it is restricted
or, if unrestricted, as revenues in unrestricted current funds.

All other unrestricted revenue is accounted for in the unrestricted current
fund. Restricted gifts, grants, endowment income, and other restricted
resources are accounted for in the appropriate restricted funds.

d. Investments are recorded at cost or fair market value at date of acquisition
when acquired by gift.

e. Inventories are carried at lower of average cost or net realizable value.

f. Income and expenses in respect to the Institution’s magazine and asso-
ciates’ activities are deferred and taken into income and expense over the
applicable periods and are reported in the activities section of the current
unrestricted funds.

g. The Institution utilizes the “total return” approach to investment manage-
ment of endowment funds and quasi-endowment funds. Under this ap-
proach, the total investment return is considered to include realized and
unrealized gains and losses in addition to interest and dividends. In ap-
plying this approach, it is the Institution’s policy to provide 442% of the
five year average of the market value of each fund (adjusted for gifts and
transfers during this period) as being available for current expenditures;
however, where the market value of the assets of any endowment fund is
less than 110% of the historic dollar value (value of gifts at date of
donation) the amount provided is limited to only interest and dividends
received.

h. Capitalized improvements and equipment used in income-producing activ-
ities purchased with Private Funds are capitalized in the current unre-
stricted fund at cost (see note 1(b)), and are depreciated on a straight-line
basis over their estimated useful lives of five to ten years. Depreciation
expense of $130,525 for 1975 is reflected in the expenditures of the current
funds.

Real estate (land and buildings) are recorded in the plant fund at cost, to
the extent that restricted or unrestricted funds were expended therefor, or
appraised value at date of gift, except for gifts of certain islands in

60 / Smithsonian Year 1975

2.

Chesapeake Bay, Carnegie Mansion, and Hillwood Estate which have been
recorded at nominal values. Depreciation on buildings is not recorded.

All the other land, buildings, fixtures and equipment (principally acquired
with Federal funds), works of art, living or other specimens are not
reflected in the accompanying financial statements.

The agency funds group consists of funds held by the Institution as
custodian or fiscal agent for others.

Pension Costs—All pension costs are funded as accrued.

The Institution has a number of contracts with the U. S. Government,
which primarily provide for cost reimbursement without fee to the
Institution. Contract revenues are recognized as expenditures are incurred.

Related Activities

The Private Funds reflect the receipt and expenditure of funds obtained
from private sources, from Federal grants and contracts and from certain
business activities related to the operation of the Institution.

Federal appropriations, which are not reflected in the accompanying
financial statements, provide major support for the operations and ad-
ministration of the educational and research programs of the Institution’s
many museums, art galleries and other bureaus, as well as for the main-
tenance and construction of related buildings and facilities. In addition,
land, buildings and other assets acquired with Federal funds are not
reflected in the accompanying financial statements.

The following Federal appropriations were received by the Institution for
the fiscal years ended June 30, 1975 and 1974:

1975 1974
RSireacrianag, AGIOS ool gre asc Mcbse3 « bes. ctsts aotalaw » droid <1 $72,511,000 60,562,900
Special foreign currency program ............. 2,000,000 4,500,000
Carnerennelivorn {arta Be Sea ne Mos CiseP aoe 17,910,000 21,860,000

$92,421,000 86,922,900

. Investments

Quoted market values and carrying values of investments (all marketable
securities) of the funds indicated were as follows:

June 30, 1975 June 30, 1974
Carrying Market Carrying Market
value value value value
Garrenkandsease ooo os ee $10,149,875 10,083,444 8,298,318 7,971,088
Endowment and
siren Gre {abeqrel 4 Saab aaace 40,015,177 40,532,249 40,043,593 34,822,438
Totalinvestments .. $50,165,052 50,615,693 48,341,911 42,793,526

Financial Report / 61
Total investment performance is summarized below:

Net gains (losses)

Endowment
Current and similar
funds funds Total
Unrealized gains (losses):
NEN SO} MOT Si sits, a cee a eeu $ (66,431) 517,072 450,641
Junes30) 19740 eae ay (327,230) (5,221,155) (5,548,385)
Unrealized net gains for year 260,799 5,738,227 5,999,026
Realized net losses for year ........ (14,909) (1,718,330) (1,733,239)
Total net gains for year ...... $ 245,890 4,019,897 4,265,787

Substantially all of the investments of the endowment and similar funds
are pooled on a market value basis (consolidated fund) with each individual
fund subscribing to or disposing of units on the basis of the value per unit
at market value at the beginning of the calendar quarter within which the
transaction takes place. Of the total units each having a market value of
$102.61 ($84.60 in 1974), 333,155 units were owned by endowment, and
62,239 units by quasi-endowment at June 30, 1975.

The following tabulation summarizes the changes in the pooled investments
during the year ended June 30, 1975:

Carrying Market value
value Market per unit
junler3O/; O75. cr eta $40,063,092 40,569,918 102.61
Jamie3 OPO 7Ay atin rahi a ano np ninety, 11,845,384 10,195,872 84.60
Increase: ys tua is Aer n $28,217,708 30,374,046 18.01

The increase in pooled investments during the year ended June 30, 1975
resulted primarily from the addition of certain endowment funds to the
pooled investments.

. Note Payable

The note payable in the principal amount of $95,920 ($191,843 in 1974),
which is noninterest bearing, is secured by computer equipment and is
payable in monthly installments of $7,993 to June 30, 1976.

. Mortgage Notes Payable

The mortgage notes payable are secured by first deeds of trust on property
acquired in connection with the Chesapeake Bay Center. The details of the
mortgage notes payable are as follows:

1975 1974

Mortgage note, payable in semiannual installments

of $13,300, plus interest at the prevailing prime

rate at the due date of the installment payment

but not less than 8%, due hel yee TOSO BE. 28: pate $146,300 172,900
6% mortgage note payable, due in monthly install-

ments of $451 including interest, due November 1,

1 Toke tines aan ied Gu har? he a hilt es dota hr Rare ia ee aia ar ag Uy el 33,418 36,717

62 / Smithsonian Year 1975
6.

a

8.

6% mortgage note, payable in semiannual install-
ments of $10,000, plus interest, due November 7,

EDT etter Nice chicysin) sieves? wy alone 'susy:s):breverre. bee b) Sietieters) sie evepalte 90,000 110,000
7% mortgage note, payable in annual installments of
$30,000, plus interest, due November 1, 1974 ..... — 30,000

$269,718 349,617

Pension Plan

The Institution has a contributory pension plan providing for the purchase
of retirement annuity contracts for those employees meeting certain age
and length of service requirements who elect to be covered under the plan.
Under terms of the plan, the Institution contributes the amount necessary
to bring the total contribution to 12% of the participants’ compensation
subject to social security taxes and to 17% of the participants’ compensa-
tion in excess of that amount. The total pension expense for the year was
$815,304 ($729,068 in 1974).

Management Fees

The Institution provides financial and management services to certain
affiliated organizations. In 1975 the Institution charged fees for such
services as follows:

Srithsonianekesearch seoundation® «4cl-2 2 see oe ee ee $125,000
Smithsonian Science Information Exchange ...............-. 130,000
ReAdiaememeInaamental, INC) Ait sons acces snes d cde esenee 38,000

Sonteretone NatiinalleATeasimeerets acc ss nce Seco ee cence 24,000

Income Taxes

The Institution has been recognized as exempt from income taxes as a
nonprofit organization described in Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal
Revenue Code. It is the opinion of the Institution that it is also exempt
from taxation as an instrumentality of the United States as described in
Section 501(c)(1) of the Code. Formal recognition of this dual status will
be sought from the Internal Revenue Service. Should the Institution’s
position not prevail, income taxes might be imposed on certain income
of the Institution, under provision of the Internal Revenue Code dealing
with unrelated business income as defined therein.

Commitments

The Institution has entered into a contract for construction of a West Court
facility within the National Museum of Natural History at a total estimated
cost of $3,000,000 which is to be financed by a $1,100,000 construction loan
with the remainder being financed from the unrestricted general fund
balance.

Financial Report / 63
Ge eS Een
ets»

pa es Ot Ke eae
peek eh eee

BO ae gk ee
ey ce Le

By Fi a8

Ee ARs be ee

oe,

Visitors to the annual Mount Hopkins Observatory Open Day take a daytime look
at the planet Venus through one of the many telescopes at the mountain-top facility.
Photo: Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory.
Smithsonian Year - 1975

SCIENCE

DAVID CHALLINOR, ASSISTANT SECRETARY

THE QUALITY OF SCIENCE at the Smithsonian and its diversity were
closely examined this past year. Some new ways were used to assess
the progress and promise of science at the Institution—most nota-
bly a seminar held at Front Royal in February.

At the Front Royal Seminar scientists from each of the bureaus
had an opportunity to describe their research to each other and to
discuss the future direction of science in general. This gathering
enabled the assembled researchers to learn about the work being
undertaken in the various bureaus and to consider the relationship
which that work might have to their own endeavors. A number of
recommendations made at this meeting addressed concerns already
on the minds of administrators while other recommendations
pointed to potential areas of investigation.

Maintenance and improvement of the quality of research were
pinpointed as the major priority of Smithsonian science by those
present. The maintenance of the highest standards of research
coupled with increased resources is the desired goal. It was clear
from the remarks of the participants that size is a major concern
to all, and the uppermost question was how or to what degree can
or should growth be limited. The Smithsonian’s current size allows
flexibility and the concomitant ability to respond quickly. This
characteristic reflects the unique quality of our Institution’s opera-
tion and is one that separates us from many of the federally funded
research institutions. Freedom from the ephemeral nature of efforts
to overcome specialization and its trappings sets us apart from most
universities. This approach allowed us to convene the seminar at

65
Front Royal in the form of an interdisciplinary dialogue, an achieve-
ment which would not have been possible in a bureaucratic environ-
ment.

Once again the threat of nascent anti-intellectualism appeared
this year with challenges to the type of basic research which the
Smithsonian performs or sponsors. While this kind of basic research
will always be subject to ridicule because of esoteric titles, the
scientist-administrators must continue to defend and promote basic
research as perhaps the most important part of their job.

When quantum leaps are made in the space sciences or medicine,
no one pauses to realize that these advances have come about only
through years of unspectacular basic research. The Smithsonian is
unigue in the federal structure for its concentration on basic
research, indeed it is one of our most fundamental premises. The
knowledge and information gained from such work has furnished
the base from which the mission agencies produce practical results.

We shall continue to seek preeminence in our research areas by
better utilizing our resources, by retaining the process of peer
review, and by exploiting our unique flexibility to respond to the
significant challenges of the future, while always maintaining our
existing strengths.

Center for the Study of Man

The Center for the Study of Man has continued research activities
in the human sciences throughout fiscal year 1975. Following its
successful conferences at the International Congress of Anthropo-
logical and Ethnological Sciences in 1973, the Center administered
and edited the publications which resulted from those meetings.
Forthcoming and in press are the following:

1. Volumes in the World Anthropology Series, published by
Mouton. The Anthropological Study of Education, edited by Craig
J. Calhoun; Toward a General Theory of Education, edited by
Frederick Gearing and Lucinda Sangree; Population and Social
Organization, edited by Moni Nag; Population, Ecology and Social
Evolution, edited by Steven Polgar; Cross-Cultural Perspectives on
Cannabis, edited by Vera Rubin; Cross-Cultural Approaches to the
Study of Alcohol, edited by J. Waddell, M. Everett, and D. Heath.

66 / Smithsonian Year 1975

2. Conference Reports: The Cultural Consequences of Population
Change, report on a Seminar held in Bucharest, Romania, August
14-17, 1974. (Edited by the Center, includes edited versions of
papers prepared for the Seminar.)

From August 14 to August 17, 1974, the Center, in conjunction
with the Romanian Academy of Sciences and the Population Com-
mission of the International Congress of Anthropological and
Ethnological Sciences, hosted a meeting on the cultural implications
of population change at Bucharest, Romania. The meetings were
held prior to and in conjunction with the World Population Confer-
ence. In addition to the sixteen third world persons representing
the Philippines, Indonesia, Bangladesh, India, Sri Lanka, Nigeria,
Kenya, Ghana, Mexico, and Venezuela, there were Margaret Mead,
Sol Tax, Steve Polgar, and Moni Nag from the United States, and
Sam Stanley and William Douglass representing the Smithsonian
Institution.

The meetings accomplished a number of related objectives. Rep-
resentatives from third world countries had an excellent oppor-
tunity to exchange views about the present condition of the human
sciences with nonthird world colleagues. The members of the
Seminar had an opportunity to review each other’s papers and also
the documents put out by the World Conference on Population of
the United Nations, 1974. Most importantly, they were able to
advance their own views on the draft World Plan of Action for the
World Population Year. As a result there was specific input from
the Seminar to the World Plan of Action. They pointed out that
the document ought to recognize that all humans are members of
social groups which are smaller than nations. They also urged the
United Nations to begin to develop a global ethic on population
with which any nation-state may evaluate its own performance.

The Urgent Anthropology Small Grants Program continued to
function during the fiscal year. Grants were made for urgent
research in North America and Africa.

During the past fiscal year the Center began research on sur-
viving American Indian groups in the Eastern and Southern parts
of the United States. This modest program has yielded some inter-
esting results. From preliminary investigation it would appear that
more Indian groups have survived than previously estimated,
though much additional work remains to be done.

Science / 67
From the Study of Child Behavior and Human Development in Cultural Iso-
lates of the National Anthropological Film Center, visual data on typical
child-handling practices has been abstracted for a number of studies: Among
the Fore people of New Guinea, infants and toddlers must take some of the
responsibility for remaining safely on the backs of those carrying them. Al-
though the carrier often holds the hands of a carried infant and sometimes
shuffles a sagging child back to a more secure position, the responsibility
for staying on falls to a significant degree to the infant, who must manage
for himself while his carrier negotiates difficult trails or darts and cavorts in
play. Facing page: in contrast, Cora Indian infants and toddlers can remain
relaxed and passive tied to the backs of their older siblings.

Another part of the American Indian Program is concerned with
learning more about the transition period between what is gathered
from ethnology and from archeology. This work is also valuable
for the forthcoming encyclopedic Handbook of North American
Indians. It is anticipated that several volumes of the Handbook,
under the general editorship of William C. Sturtevant, will begin
appearing in 1976.

68 / Smithsonian Year 1975

RESEARCH INSTITUTE ON IMMIGRATION AND ETHNIC STUDIES

The work of the Research Institute on Immigration and Ethnic
Studies for the fiscal year 1975 involved a wide-range of activi-
ties: special lectures and participation in professional meetings on
ethnicity and immigration; publications in professional journals;
supervision of graduate fellows in ethnic studies; and rendering
consultation services to other sectors of the Smithsonian Institution.
Under the directorship of Roy S. Bryce-Laporte, a comparative
sociologist, Rm1ES obtained internal support for a bicentennial project
on new immigration to the United States. The project being coordi-
nated by Ms. Dolores Mortimer takes the form of a series of
seminars on various aspects of the new immigration which will
culminate in a national conference and publication. Various con-
sultation visits and advisory seminars in Washington, D.C., Cali-
fornia, Florida, and the Virgin Islands, have been carried out by
rues staff and it has contracted for data surveys on special immi-
grant populations. Lecture presentations by the Director of RtES
were made at Howard University, the Caribbean Studies Associa-
tion, and the International Studies Association.

Science / 69
THE NATIONAL ANTHROPOLOGICAL FILM CENTER

The National Anthropological Film Center was established this year
to take fuller advantage of the scholarly potential of film as a tool
of inquiry into the vanishing and changing ways of life and cul-
tures of the world. Like its parent discipline, anthropology, the
Center will bridge both science and the humanities, dealing with
the full range of the human condition. Strictly scientific studies
will be balanced by more humanistic interests dealing with the arts,
historical process, and cultural values.

Physically, the Center will serve as a research facility and reposi-
tory for visual studies in much the way that museums obtain and
preserve important objects and materials for continued study and
to support findings. The Center will also provide cultural informa-
tion to peoples who have little written history, thereby helping
fulfill their need for information related to their own development.

Projects have been started which involve filming a number of
cultural survivals. The Center is giving special attention to the few
remaining small, isolated cultural groups of the world which have
evolved independently over thousands of years, and to other small
social enclaves which represent vanishing unique expressions of
human organization and behavior. It also collaborates with docu-
mentary film projects sampling the range of better known, more
stable cultural variation, including traditional folk cultures, as well
as selected aspects of our changing modern society.

Presently being planned is a research film library in which film
prints will permit review, study, and scholarly assembly, leaving
original films undamaged to take advantage of future advances in
the copying technology. The basic collection is being developed so
that access will ultimately be possible via cable connecting a cen-
tral automated videotape library with study centers and museum
displays.

The Center has been able to develop collaborative projects with
scholars in various parts of the world; and it has been able in a
few crucial areas to provide raw film stock, film processing, equip-
ment, and guidelines to anthropologist-filmmakers interested in
preparing scholarly visual documents as a permanent research
resource. Experimental field studies are also underway in an effort
to develop and improve visual sampling methods and equipment.

70 / Smithsonian Year 1975

fan? *

A
4 i
gre

—

¥

Affectionate play among children of different ages is characteristic among
the Fore of New Guinea. Knives or other potentially dangerous objects are
also part of the play environment experienced by young children. One of the
findings coming from the Study of Child Behavior and Human Development
in Cultural Isolates is that such aspects of child handling have a direct in-
fluence on the behavior patterns developed as children grow older.

With Mr. John Marshall, world-famous anthropological filmer
of the Kalahari Bushmen, the Center has begun assembling and
annotating his film record, the most extensive ever made of a tradi-
tional hunting-gathering society, and preparing research films for
deposit in the National Anthropological Film Center.

Although facilities to store film have not yet been completed, the
Center has begun its search for existing anthropological film foot-
age of research value which may be in danger of deterioration or
loss. Film historian Emilie de Brigard has agreed to join the staff

Science / 71
for a short period to apply her extensive knowledge of work already
done in anthropological film.

With the cooperation of Dr. Norman Miller, Director of the
American Universities Field Staff Film Project, the Center has now
accessioned 126,800 feet of research filmed material of human
adaptation in three modernizing cultures: a Tadjik-Pashtoon-Uzbek
agricultural village in northern Afghanistan, a highlands Aymara
subsistence agricultural community in Bolivia, and a cattle-herding
Boran nomadic group in Kenya. The Afghanistan footage has
already been annotated by anthropologist Dr. Louis Dupree. The
others are now being prepared for annotation. The Center cele-
brated its formal opening with premier showings of several educa-
tional films prepared by the American Universities Field Staff from
this research filmed material.

With anthropological filmmakers Asen Balikci of the University
of Montreal and Timothy Asch of Harvard University, and the
collaboration of Professor Bayazid Atsak of Kabul University, the
Center has begun a research film study of the Pashtoon Nomads of
Afghanistan, whose way of life is now rapidly disappearing.

At the invitation of the Premier of the Cook Islands, Sir Albert
Henry, and with a grant obtained from the National Geographic
Society, the Center is preparing to document representative tradi-
tional dances from each of the three major Polynesian culture areas
comprised by the Cook Islands.

As part of the Study of Child Behavior and Human Development
in Cultural Isolates and with the support of the Instituto Nacional
Indigenista of Mexico, the Center is proceeding with a long-term
film study of traditional Huichol Indian life in the San Andres
region of Mexico. Dr. Kalman Muller, an anthropological filmmaker
now resident in this region, has been participating as chief ethno-
cinematographer.

With Dr. William Crocker of the Department of Anthropology,
the Center is collaborating in a research film study of child behavior
and human development among the relatively unacculturated
Canela Indians of Brazil.

In collaboration with Dr. Kalman Muller, the research film study
of remaining surviving traditional Melanesian cultural groups in
the New Hebrides Islands is continuing. This footage is now being
prepared as annotated research films at the Center.

72 / Smithsonian Year 1975

Research film studies of naturally occurring human behavior in different
parts of the world not only make possible comparative studies of play and
child interaction but also of such culturally variable characteristics as gait.

In an effort to devise methods by which film footage shot by
educational filmmakers may also be prepared as a research resource,
the Center is exploring a variety of strategies with filmmakers from
the American Universities Field Staff, the University of Montreal,
Harvard University, the University of Illinois, Bellevue Community
College, the University of California, Indiana University, the Uni-
versity of Pennsylvania, Delhi University (India), and the Anthro-
pology Film Center (Santa Fe).

Science / 73
Chesapeake Bay Center for Environmental Studies

In January 1975, Dr. Francis S. L. Williamson, after six years as
Director of the Chesapeake Bay Center for Environmental Studies,
resigned to accept an appointment as Commissioner of Health and
Social Service for the state of Alaska. Dr. J. Kevin Sullivan assumed
the position of Acting Director.

Dr. Williamson and his colleagues conceived of the Rhode River
Program, which is the core of the Center’s research effort. This
project is a study of the interaction of the Rhode River estuary
with its watershed and man’s impact on this system. The comple-
tion during fiscal year 1975 of a full year of monitoring material
entering the estuary from land runoff and other non-point sources
and the initiation of a Forest Ecology Program are steps toward
understanding how man’s use of land affects this ecosystem. The
Forest Ecology Program is part of the Smithsonian’s Environmental
Sciences Program (ESP).

The watershed of the Rhode River is composed of many small
basins, some of which drain into discrete creeks. As part of the non-
point sources study, the Center constructed instrumented weirs
(notched dams) to monitor the runoff from eight of these basins.
The weirs record the volume of water discharged while taking
volume-integrated samples. These samples are analyzed for sedi-
ment and nutrient concentrations.

Each drainage basin contains a different proportion of five land-
use types: cultivated cropland; wet areas such as ponds, swamps,
and marshes; pasturelands; natural areas such as forest and brush-
land; and residential areas including dwellings and roads. The total
area being monitored is 2100 acres.

Data gathered have been used to determine mathematically the
area loading rates to the Rhode River from each of the five land-use
categories at different times of the year. These rates are applicable
to predicting the effects of land-use changes upon the turbidity and
nutrient loading of an estuary on a seasonal basis.

Stream samples were also taken at times of known water dis-
charge and analyzed for total and fecal coliform bacteria as indi-
cators of pollution with human pathogens. Analyses revealed high
correlations between fecal coliform levels and water runoff rates
for each watershed. At times of heavy runoff, contamination of the

74 / Smithsonian Year 1975

Rhode River estuary with bacteria of fecal origin was a serious
problem. As the volume of the Rhode River increased toward the
mouth, fecal coliform bacteria were diluted and the higher salinity
levels further contributed to their decline in numbers.

The non-point sources study is funded by NsF-RANN (National
Science Foundation-Research Applied to National Needs) through
the Chesapeake Research Consortium. It is the most extensive study
of its kind currently underway on an estuarine system in the United
States. Investigators from the University of Maryland and the
Johns Hopkins University are working with Smithsonian scientists
on this project. Dr. David Correll is coordinating the Rhode River
Research Program.

In addition to the land runoff studies, scientists at cBcEs partici-
pated in the development of a Forest Ecology Program. This Pro-
gram has as its objective the monitoring of species succession
among primary producers at sites which have been subjected to
various land uses. Studies of small mammals, birds, insects, soils,
and minerals are coordinated with the studies of vegetational
succession.

Eight forest ecology study sites have been identified in the Java
Farm area. They include sites which have been undisturbed for
several hundreds of years (Hog Island) and others intensively culti-
vated until abandonment in the 1940s. A wide disparity exists
between plant communities at these sites, even in those which have
had the same land use. csces scientists hope to determine the fac-
tors controlling species succession in the forest community. Base-
line data collected in this study will also be used to predict the
impact of man’s perturbations on the forest ecosystem.

EDUCATION

With the addition of a full-time Program Director this past year,
education activities were restructured and several new starts were
made. A large-scale model field trip program in outdoor education
at the cBces was initiated. These teacher-led experimental tours,
which occur daily during the spring and fall, are designed to satisfy
specific curriculum requirements in science education in Anne
Arundel and other nearby counties.

Efforts were also made to develop a model Outdoor Environ-
mental Education Program for Adults. The caces played an active

Science / 75
Facing page, above: In order to measure land runoff and other non-point
sources of pollution, csces investigators have instrumented the Rhode River
watershed’s key tributary streams with a system of wiers—notched dams
that permit water to flow through. The wiers record volume and velocity of
flow while automatically collecting samples at intervals determined by flow
rates. The samples are collected weekly and analyzed for nitrogen, phos-
phorus, particulate load, total and fecal bacteria and pathogens.

Facing page, below: With the aid of sweepnets and plastic bags, students
are exploring the variety of insects and spiders that live in a forest com-
munity. This field activity was developed by Dr. John Falk, cpces Education
Director, as part of the opis (Outdoor Biology Instructional Strategies) Pro-
gram. It is one of many osis activities which are designed to promote the
understanding of ecological relationships by youngsters from eleven to fifteen
years of age.

Below: A major new facility—the Jean C. Schmidt Environmental Education
Building—was completed at the Chesapeake Bay Center for Environmental
Studies in March 1975. This building is divided into two sections: a visitors’
area which contains an auditorium seating 200 people and a dormitory area
which houses twelve and includes a kitchen, a study room, and a lounge. The
visitors’ area will serve as a center for workshops on environmental educa-
tion, for meetings of citizen groups, and for conferences on environmental
research. The dormitory will be quarters for college students on work/study
projects and visiting scientists.

leadership role in the formation of a coalition for Adult Environ-
mental Education in cooperation with the National Park Service
and the National Audubon Society and several adult groups partici-
pated in trial programs during the fall and spring.

The csces was the recipient of a National Science Foundation
(NSF) grant designed to implement opis (Outdoor Biology Instruc-
tional Strategies) within out-of-school community institutions. In
addition, cBcEs was designed as an opis National Field Center.

opis is an outdoor biology program that gives young people
between the ages of eleven and fifteen years the experience of
observing and investigating organisms and events in the out-of-
doors. Under the nsr grant, the Center is conducting instructional
workshops on osis activities for elementary and junior high school
teachers, summer day camp directors, and high school students.

For the second year, a Summer Ecology Program for children in
grades three through twelve was operated at csces. The objective
of this program is to train college students in outdoor education
techniques and is aimed at future elementary and secondary school
teachers. In addition, the Center continued its successful Speakers
Bureau Program in which Center staff present talks on environ-
mental subjects to a variety of local and regional groups.

INFORMATION TRANSFER

Funded with a grant from the Edward John Noble Foundation, the
Information Transfer Program has as its goal the translation of
scientific results into forms which can be used by planners, govern-
ment officials, and resource managers who make decisions which
affect the Bay. In addition, the program makes environmental
information available to organizations and individuals.

Projects undertaken this year include a study on the opportuni-
ties for citizen participation in the water quality planning process.
An information specialist identified and evaluated these major areas
for citizen participation in the state of Maryland: Public Advisory
Councils on river basin planning, public informational meetings
and hearings on basin plans, and hearings on discharge permits
and the state’s Priority List for construction of sewage treatment
plants. The study resulted in recommendations for improving citi-
zen participation in the planning process and many of the recom-
mendations were adopted.

78 / Smithsonian Year 1975
Over the past year, the Center greatly expanded its informa-
tional services to management agencies, citizen organizations, and
the general public. News releases summarizing on-going research
activities at cBces were distributed to resource managers, environ-
mental leaders, and other interested groups and individuals. cBces
staff also developed information on specific environmental issues
such as land use, solid waste disposal, and off-shore energy tech-
nology for citizen groups and government officials.

The Center provided support in the form of staff time and exper-
tise to a number of local citizen organizations. Support activities for
these groups included organizing workshops and conferences,
researching environmental issues and planning public programs.

cpces helped organize two workshops on Maryland’s Coastal
Zone Management Program (czmp). The first workshop focused on
major environmental problems affecting Maryland’s coastal zone;
the second explored citizen participation alternatives in Maryland’s
CZMP.

PAGTEFTIES

The Jean C. Schmidt Environmental Education Building was com-
pleted in March 1975. The brick building is divided into two sec-
tions. The visitor area contains an auditorium seating 200 people.
Movable storage dividers convert it into smaller rooms. This area
will be used for meetings and workshops and as a reception center
for visiting groups and individuals.

The dormitory area houses twelve and includes a kitchen, a study
room, and a lounge. It will be quarters for college students on
work/study projects and visiting scientists.

STAFF

The Center’s full-time staff numbered approximately forty-five at
the close of the fiscal year. Over one-half of these employees are
private employees. Additions to the permanent federal staff in-
cluded Dr. James Lynch, zoologist, and Mr. Gary Chirlen, bio-
logical systems analyst.

Some thirty additional researchers are actively engaged in proj-
ects at the Chesapeake Bay Center, including principal investigators
for the Rhode River Research Program from the Johns Hopkins
University, the University of Maryland, and the United States
Geological Survey.

Science / 79
Aerial view of Link Port, location of the Smithsonian’s Fort Pierce Bureau in Florida.
Fort Pierce Bureau

The scientific objectives of the Smithsonian Institution’s Fort Pierce
Bureau for the next five to ten years was approved on a year-to-year
basis in a Resolution by the Board of Regents during its meeting in
May. The Fort Pierce Bureau has three long-range and interrelated
programs which are designed to understand the estuarine and
marine environments along the east coast of Florida and adjacent
continental shelf and to establish baseline information for measur-
ing natural and man-caused stresses and changes. These are the
Indian River Study, Life Histories Studies, and Submarine Explora-
tion of the East Florida Continental Shelf.

The Indian River Study is a ten-year joint program with the
Harbor Branch Foundation, Inc., to obtain baseline information on
the biota in the Indian River lagoon, environmental quality and
sources of pollution, and a predictive capability of natural and man-
induced changes. Quantitative benthic sampling at seagrass (Halo-
dule wrightii) stations has resulted in almost 50,000 specimens,
which will provide information on community structure. Effects of
predation on the seagrass-associated benthos have been studied by
using field enclosures (cages). A checklist of over 500 fishes from
the Indian River region has been completed, based on 100 con-
tinental-shelf trawling stations and 1000 estuarine seine collec-
tions, along with a literature survey. Fifteen percent of the fishes
sampled have not been recorded previously. Twelve cruises of the
houseboat research laboratory have measured chemical parameters
of the water column along the estuary for fluctuations of major
nutrients, heavy metals, phytoplankton composition, and standing
crop. Indian River Study data from 1383 biological stations, 521
chemical stations, and 75 physical oceanographic stations have been
stored in the Smithsonian’s s—ELGEM data management system in
Washington, D.C., from the remote computer terminal on the
laboratory barge at Fort Pierce.

Objectives of the Life Histories Studies are to obtain baseline
information on reproduction, developmental patterns, and larval
development of common marine organisms in the Indian River and
offshore oceanic waters in the vicinity of Fort Pierce. The knowledge
of these critical phases of development, essential to survival and
dispersal of species, is to be utilized as part of the consortium effort

Science / 81
in the understanding of marine ecosystems and the assessment of
environmental stresses. During the past year studies have con-
centrated on two groups of benthic invertebrates, which form
prominent communities in the Fort Pierce area, sipunculans and
sabellariids. Twenty-four sipunculans have been collected in the
Indian River and adjacent continental shelf, five of which appear
to be previously undescribed species. Observations have been made
on the spawning and breeding seasons of nine species of sipuncu-
lans, including the unusual self-fertilizing hermaphrodite, Themiste
lageniformis, which occurs in densities as great as 500 per square
meter in the Fort Pierce Inlet. Developmental patterns of local spe-
cies vary from direct development with no larval stage, through
those with short-lived swimming larval stages to sipunculans with
long-lived planktonic larval stages. Electron microscopy of larval
cuticle has revealed distinguishing patterns of structure which can
serve to identify planktonic larvae to species. An investigation is
also underway on the role of various substrates in inducing meta-
morphosis of sipunculan larvae.

The Submarine Exploration of the East Florida Continental Shelf
is intended to build an inventory bank of continental-shelf orga-
nisms correlated with environmental and ecological information
with a precision heretofore unavailable by conventional sampling
methods. It is being carried out by the Harbor Branch Foundation.

National Air and Space Museum

The grand event of fiscal year 1975 for the National Air and Space
Museum was the move of the staff from the Arts and Industries
Building to the new museum on Independence Avenue, between
Fourth and Seventh Streets. Construction of the building is com-
plete, and it has been transferred from the General Services Admin-
istration to the Smithsonian. The first aircraft, the Douglas World
Cruiser ‘“Chicago’”’ was moved into the museum in April. The task
is now to fill the museum with educational and interesting exhibits
and artifacts. This assignment, though formidable, will be possible
as a result of a successful Arts and Industries Building exhibits trial
program, which marked the beginning of a most ambitious design
and fabrication program. The program, to provide approximately

82 / Smithsonian Year 1975
Smithsonian’s floating laboratory barge which currently is the headquarters for the
Indian River study. Below: A portion of the Indian River study reference collections
on the floating laboratory barge which now houses about 1000 lots of fishes, 2400 lots
of decapods, and 1000 lots of other miscellaneous invertebrates.

Tl

200,000 square feet of exhibit space in two calendar years, was
undertaken for a building not to be completed until midway through
the program. To date, the program is on schedule. The July 4, 1976,
targets are: to have all major galleries open and to have between
40 and 50 percent of this space filled with long-term or “core”
exhibit units.

The major exhibits program tasks completed during fiscal year
1975 were:

1. Conclusion of a successful Arts and Industries Building ex-
hibits research and development program toward exhibitions for
the new naso. This included review and subsequent revision of the
exhibit “Air Traffic Control’ to strengthen and to improve its
understandability by unification of design elements and rewriting
of the labeling. The completion of an outside evaluation of the
exhibit “Life in the Universe” resulted in a report which indicates
a high degree of success in terms of public acceptance and under-
standing of the material presented.

2. Exhibits Division design for twenty projects (twelve gallery
exhibit designs and eight exhibits-related designs). Establishment of
standard specifications for contract design of exhibits and for sepa-
rate contracts for fabrication and installation.

3. Evaluation and resulting award of twelve contracts for exhibit
design and four contracts for exhibit fabrication and installation.

4. Research and resulting concept design for the world’s first
museum automatic central control system which led to the award
of a contract to install the highly innovative five megabit multi-
plexing system currently being produced on schedule.

5. Initiation of two functions vital to the long-range exhibits
program and the Bicentennial opening of the new NASM:

a. Provision for basic label production and photoprocessing
of silk screen materials for the Exhibits Division Production Unit,
located at Silver Hill.

b. Establishment of a Media Unit in the Exhibits Division
responsible for presentation of the “message” for overall exhibits.
The tasks include creative writing, film storyboarding, and accom-
panying narratives, film production, all exhibits editorial functions,
and illustration required in all facets of museum exhibits. This Unit
will bridge the gap between the curatorial research and information
input and the design of environmental aspects of exhibits.

84 / Smithsonian Year 1975
Douglas A-1E Skyraider being moved from Dahlgren, Virginia, Naval Weap-
ons Test Center, to Nasm’s Silver Hill Facility in Suitland, Maryland.

The first artifact to be moved into NAsM’s new museum was the Douglas
World Cruiser, “Chicago,” in April 1975.

Frat naer

ho

HISTORICAL RESEARCH

The research performed by the staff during the year was directed,
for the most part, toward the planning and preparation of exhibits.
The Department of Science and Technology completed scripts for
numerous exhibits including:

“Benefits from Flight’’—this major exhibit portrays the complex
and diverse ways in which air and space flight have affected our
civilization, from important technological developments to broad
cultural changes.

The Department of Aeronautics completed scripts for:

“Air Transportation’”’—this exhibit covers the development and
growth of air transportation, both United States and foreign.

“General Aviation’’—the various facets of general aviation in-
cluding the many types of aircraft and the vast airport network
are featured here.

“Sea-Air Operations’—the hangar deck and other areas of an
aircraft carrier will be recreated in this gallery.

“Balloons and Airships’’—the history of lighter-than-air craft,
including both balloons and airships, is told in this gallery. One
feature is a 30-foot model of the dirigible ““Hindenburg.”

“Exhibition Flight’’—the glamour and excitement of barnstorm-
ing, aerobatics, and air racing are featured in this gallery.

The Department of Astronautics completed scripts for:

“Apollo to the Moon’’—this exhibit depicts United States manned
space flight and lunar exploration; Mercury, Gemini, and Apollo
missions.

“Life in the Universe’’—this exhibit considers the possibility that
life exists beyond the Earth.

“Rocketry and Space Flight’’-—this is an exhibit of the history
and evolution of rocket propulsion, rocket engines, and space suits.

RESTORATION

During fiscal year 1975 the Silver Hill Shops restored nine major
aeronautical artifacts and two major space artifacts—the Jupiter C
and Vanguard Launch Vehicles. In addition, 175 other space arti-
facts were removed from storage, and inspected for exhibit. Twenty
were selected and the necessary restoration was performed.

Over twenty volunteers worked with the regular staff in the
restoration process.

86 / Smithsonian Year 1975
PRESENTATIONS AND EDUCATION DIVISION

During the year the division acquired three additional staff mem-
bers, two of them in the Education Unit and the third in the Space-
arium Unit. Activities centered on planning for the new building in
all of the areas of responsibility: Education, Theater, and Space-
arium.

Education Unit

Two nasm-subject-matter guided school activities were developed
and used to gain experience for the future. One of these titled
“The History of Flight,” a study of the evolution of flight, was
presented to 103 groups. The other, “Space Age,” combined a
planetarium lesson and examination of selected space artifacts. The
planetarium lesson, “The Lunar Experience,” was written and pro-
duced by the division and presented in the Experimentarium located
in the Air and Space Building. This combination of planetarium
lesson and specimen examination proved to be very popular and
received excellent response by the 415 groups involved, verifying
the model of combinations of Spacearium, Theater, and gallery
activities planned for the new museum. In all, approximately 9000
students participated in the guided events.

The Education Unit staff also gained experience in going out to
school classrooms in conjunction with studies related to Nasm. They
also provided special programs of activities at Nasm for Fairfax
County high school students participating in a summer space science
institute, for Civil Air Patrol Cadets, and for 150 elementary school
teachers from California.

NasM’s first Holiday Lecture Series was presented at the Car-
michael Auditorium on December 26, 27, and 28, with about 250
high school students attending each session. The general topic of
the series was “Life in the Universe,” and the speakers were Von
Del Chamberlain of nasm, Cyril Ponnamperuma of the University
of Maryland, and Richard Berendzen of The American University.
The lecture series received enthusiastic response, encouraging its
continuation.

NASM Theater

As the year draws to a close, the nasm Theater nears completion.
The 50-foot by 75-foot screen has been installed, 485 seats have
been attached to the risers, an max projector has been ordered and

Science / 87
scheduled for installation in early 1976, and the sound system is
being described for contract purposes. In addition, the first imax
film for showing to NASM visitors is under production by Francis
Thompson, Inc., of New York City with funding by the Continental
Oil Company. The facility promises to become one of the major
features of public interest on the Mall. It will be used to help tell
the aerospace story to millions of people who visit the Smithsonian.

Spacearium Unit

Public use of the Experimentarium in the Air and Space Building
has ended. Attendance for the year was about 43,000. The facility
will be used for the next few months in developing the first Space-
arium show. The planetarium projector and projection dome will be
removed and used in an exhibit in the new building. Other Experi-
mentarium equipment will be used in the Spacearium.

In June 1975, the Government of the Federal Republic of Ger-
many announced the gift to the American people of a Zeiss Model
VI planetarium projector and funds for an associated automation
system. This equipment is given in honor of the Bicentennial of
the American Revolution, and will reside in the Spacearium of the
National Air and Space Museum. It will help millions of Americans
and visitors from many other countries begin to comprehend the
significance of what they see above the landscape and to judge for
themselves their own relationship to the universe.

The Spacearium theater is rapidly taking form. The seventy-foot-
diameter projection dome is being erected, the lift for the plane-
tarium projector is being completed, and the sound system is being
designed as fiscal year 1975 ends.

Plans are proceeding for the first Spacearium show to be pre-
sented for general visitors. Additional programs are being written
for visiting school classes.

CENTER FOR EARTH AND PLANETARY STUDIES

During its second year of operation, Nasm’s Center for Earth and
Planetary Studies has engaged in several space research projects.
The basic research material is a complete collection of photographs
of the Moon taken both by unmanned probes and by Apollo astro-
nauts. This photographic library was increased by the addition of
a large library of photographs of the Earth taken from orbit. The

88 / Smithsonian Year 1975
Center is also acquiring photographs of Mars and Mercury. Its
research collection will be one of the most complete for compara-
tive planetology in the world.

The major research project of the year was related to the Apollo-
Soyuz Test Project (astr). Dr. Farouk El-Baz, Research Director of
the Center for Earth and Planetary Studies, is Principal Investigator
for “Earth Observations and Photography” on this mission. His
research team is comprised of thirty-four experts in the fields of
geology, oceanography, desert study, hydrology, meteorology, and
environmental studies. The purpose of the experiment is to use the
capabilities of the trained astronauts in obtaining scientific data
while in Earth orbit.

The lunar photographic collection of the Center for Earth and
Planetary Studies was used in the selection of photographs for an
Atlas of the Moon to be published by the National Aeronautics
and Space Administration. As material for scientific research, the
collection was used in global studies of the Moon as well as detailed
investigations of some surface features. The global studies included
mapping of all occurrences of the relatively dark volcanic rock
(basalt) on the Moon to study its distribution and reasons of local-
ization. Also a synthesis was performed of geochemical and geo-
physical data on the east side of the Moon to correlate those with
photogeologic interpretations. A detailed study of sinuous rilles
near the crater Prinz was performed using topographic data. This
study concluded that these rilles emanate from circular depressions
on top of a dome and meander in lower terrain, supporting the idea
that they originated as lava channels.

In cooperation with the National Aeronautics and Space Admin-
istration the lunar topographic collection was used in connection
with the lunar mapping program to: (1) select areas to be topo-
graphically mapped; (2) select photographs to be used in the mak-
ing of the maps; (3) assign the production priorities based on scien-
tific value and interest; and (4) define the exact borders of map
sheets. The maps which are being produced by the Defense Map-
ping Agency, Topographic Center, are important in both global
studies of the Moon (1:250,000 scale maps) and detailed studies of
particular surface features (1:50,000 and 1:10,000 scale maps).

As a member of the Task Group on Lunar Nomenclature of the
International Astronomical Union, Dr. El-Baz is responsible for

Science / 89
the selection of features to be named on the Moon. Much of the
work necessary for the revision of the lunar nomenclature system
is being made at the Center for Earth and Planetary Studies. The
Research Director was also appointed by the Secretary of the
Interior to membership on the Advisory Committee on Extraterres-
trial Features of the United States Board of Geographic Names.

Dr. Farouk El-Baz made a trip to India and the Middle East to
lecture on “Scientific Findings of the Apollo Missions” and “Earth
Observations and Photography on ASTP.”

While in Egypt, he conferred with officials of the Academy of
Scientific Research and the Ministry of Higher Education and Scien-
tific Research concerning a joint project with the Smithsonian. This
project will deal with the ‘Geological Characteristics of the Deserts
of Egypt” and will be based at the Geology Department of the
University of Ain Shams in Cairo. During the ten-day visit, Dr.
El-Baz was received by President Anwar Sadat, who encouraged
the project and emphasized the importance of scientific research in

Egypt.

ART

During fiscal year 1975 a Curator of Art was appointed. Steps were
taken to commission two major pieces of sculpture to be shown
outside the new nasm building at both the Mall and Independence
Avenue entrances. The sculptors, Richard Lippold and Charles
Perry, were selected after an extensive search, which involved rep-
resentatives of the National Gallery of Art and the National Col-
lection of Fine Arts, as well as the Architect and the General
Services Administration.

Arrangements have been made with artists Robert McCall, Eric
Sloane, and Keith Ferris to paint large murals in the NasM. Robert
McCall will depict the Space Flight Environment, Eric Sloane the
Earth Flight Environment and Keith Ferris will render in nearly
full size a portrait of a B-17 Bomber in flight as part of the World
War II exhibition.

During this reporting period, NAsm was offered and accepted the
NASA collection of art which documents many space program activi-
ties. Delivery of hundreds of sketches, drawings, watercolors,
paintings, and sculpture was made and the cataloguing process
started. A selection of pieces from this collection, as well as pieces

90 / Smithsonian Year 1975

. ‘.
aT

; q

be s \
. % ~ aa

\ ¥ \q 4 UL,

S<Ow

President Anwar Sadat of Egypt examines the feature named Al-Qahira
Vallis (Cairo Valley) on a globe of Mars presented him by Dr. Farouk El-Baz
during a recent visit. The name Al-Qahira Vallis was recommended by El-Baz
to the International Astronomical Union because the city of Cairo was
originally named after the planet Mars.

from other sources, will be exhibited in the art gallery of the Nas.
This documentary art, along with many other drawings and paint-
ings commissioned by the military services and spanning several
decades, provides a unique record of man’s activities in developing
his ability to fly through air and space. The art work displayed on
opening day will provide a record for the future of some of the
greatest moments of the present through a medium that is as old
as our recorded past—this intimate, human medium of the artist’s
eye and hand.

Science / 91
National Museum of Natural History

The National Museum of Natural History’s service to the public
is a continual commitment that goes back to its founding. The
Museum is proud of its efforts during the past year to keep this
tradition strong and vital. Major projects are underway that will
bring the Museum closer to the people by making its exhibits more
stimulating and informative and by creating a friendly and com-
fortable atmosphere in which the three and a half million visitors
who walk through the Museum every year can find the answers
to their questions about the natural world and their relationship
tO it.

With this end in mind, the Museum’s Exhibits Committee in
February 1975 finished drawing up a long-range plan for the recon-
struction and refurbishment of virtually all of the present halls of
the Museum over the next twenty years. The schedule is for at least
one or two major openings every year. The first of these new halls,
Ice Age Mammals and the Emergence of Man, opened in October
1974. This exhibit’s thematic rigor, cool esthetic ambiance, rich
cross-disciplinary scientific content, and logical positioning of ob-
jects, sets a standard for exhibits that will follow. It is not a hall
dominated by audiovisual techniques or long textual labels; its
message and excitement are in the realism of its objects: the huge
reconstruction of the woolly mammoth that once roamed the
Alaskan tundra, the saber-toothed tiger depicted attacking a giant
ground sloth at the LaBrea tar pits, and the archeological sites
where we see evidence of man’s biological and cultural evolution
during the Ice Age—from a crude circle of rocks constructed almost
two million years ago at Olduvai Gorge in East Africa to the flutes
and ceramic art created 30,000 years ago at Dolni Vestonice in
Central Europe.

Future exhibits will deal with such topics as the dynamics of
organic evolution, cultural adaptation to differing environments,
diversity of life, the evolution of the earth, origin of Western civil-
ization, and evolution of man. Broad concepts of natural history,
most of them related in their content to the major theme of organic
and inorganic evolution, will be constructed in axial halls—the
building’s major architectural spaces. These large halls will be
designed to serve as the public’s major passageways into and
through the Museum.

92. / Smithsonian Year 1975

Woolly mammoth in “Ice Age Mammals and the Emergence of Man,” a new
exhibition in the National Museum of Natural History. Below: Ice Age
archeological sites reconstructed in the exhibition “Ice Age Mammals and

the Emergence of Man.”

The Museum foyer’s Bicentennial exhibit, ‘““Our Changing Land,”
is the first of these axial halls to be developed. It does not deal
directly with evolution but will form a base for the understanding
of a projected hall of the Dynamics of Organic Evolution above it
on the first floor. General principles of ecology will be illustrated
in the Bicentennial exhibit by depicting environmental changes that
took place over 10,000 years in a single geographical area of the
country—the Potomac Valley. An escalator is being cut through
the ceiling at the south end of this hall to take the crowds coming
in the Constitution Avenue entrance up into the Rotunda.

The smaller peripheral halls on the Museum’s first and second
floors will be used to provide more detailed information about the
broad conceptual exhibits, as a space for temporary exhibits, and
for a variety of exhibit halls on specific topics. One of these cur-
rently under development and scheduled for opening in the fall of
1975 is a hall devoted to South American anthropology, entitled
South America: Continent and Cultures.

NEW WEST COURT BUILDING

Ground was broken in 1974-1975 on the first major addition to
the Museum building since its east and west wings were added in
the late 1950s and early 1960s. The three-story structure—adding
48,324 square feet of space to the Museum building—will be built
in the Museum’s west courtyard. When it is completed in mid-
1976, there will be a new and enlarged Museum Shop, which will
house a natural science bookstore and a sorely needed public cafe-
teria, that will seat 400 persons.

In the middle level of the new building will be a specimen refer-
ence library that will have natural history collections that can be
handled and studied by interested hobbyists and students. Staffed
by trained volunteer docents, it will serve to bridge the gap that
now exists between the exhibits and the research collection area.

An important facility on the new building’s ground floor, in addi-
tion to staff and Associates cafeterias, will be a school tour recep-
tion and classroom area operated by the Museum’s Office of Educa-
tion. School groups coming into the Museum will go directly to this
area where there will be a lounge to check their coats and bag
lunches. The docent can then give them a brief orientation lecture
before taking them out into the Museum on their tour.

94 / Smithsonian Year 1975
Looking over the foundation work for the National Museum of Natural
History’s new west courtyard addition were (left to right) Dr. Porter Kier,
NMNH Director; Richard O. Griesel, Smithsonian’s Business Management
Office Manager; Richard W. Kernan, Group Vice President of the Marriott
Corporation; Ames T. Wheeler, Treasurer of the Smithsonian; Paul N. Perrot,
Smithsonian’s Assistant Secretary for Museum Programs; and James F. Mello,
NMNH Assistant Director.

During the 1974-1975 year the Office of Education introduced a
number of new programs at the Museum. With the help of a grant
from the Smithsonian Women’s Committee, it instituted programs
that will make many of the Museum’s exhibits, films, and lectures
more enjoyable to the deaf and the blind. Cassette tape players and
embossed maps were made available to the blind and braille labels
were installed in the Museum’s Discovery Room. Interpreters for
the deaf were provided for many of the Museum’s Friday films and
lectures in Baird Auditorium.

Science / 95
Blind visitors have an opportunity to touch and explore a sculpture of a woolly mammoth.

A group of children watch Mrs. Isabell Deschinny (right), a Navaho from Houck,
Arizona, and the daughter of a world-famous weaver, give demonstrations during
April at the National Museum of Natural History. She is being assisted by docent Fran
O'Leary. This is the first in a series of NMNH Office of Education demonstrations
that show traditional ways in which items in the museum’s exhibitions were used.

Ao ~

ae

had
Rey >.

Isabell Deschinny
Navaho Weaver

Weaving Demonstration
wersday, Friday, Saturday Mornings in Aprit
10:30 AM ~ 12.30 Pm
—

PLANS FOR A MUSEUM SUPPORT FACILITY

In February 1975, three of the Museum’s staff, Donald W. Duck-
worth, Frederick J. Collier, and Dieter C. Wasshausen, made a tour
of a number of major European museums to gather information
about methods of modern, high-density storage technology. The
trip was part of a preliminary planning effort being made by the
Museum to prepare for the long-range storage of part of its collec-
tions in the proposed off-Mall Museum Support Facility at the
Smithsonian’s Silver Hill facility, located in the Suitland Federal
Center, Suitland, Maryland. This building will be of immense
future importance to the Museum. It would provide space for ex-
panding collections—which for the past two decades have been
growing at the rate of one million objects and specimens a year—
and it would free valuable space within the Museum for badly
needed exhibits and research functions.

DEPARTMENT OF ANTHROPOLOGY

The prehistory of the Labrador coast was long obscured by a be-
wildering melange of Indian and Eskimo archeological remains that
defied clarification. But now the National Museum of Natural His-
tory’s Dr. William W. Fitzhugh has worked out a framework for
7000 years of that region’s prehistory. He believes that to under-
stand its shifting cultural patterns one must take into account strong
environmental influences that overrode other events.

Dr. Fitzhugh’s first few years of Labrador field work testing this
hypothesis focused on an area along the central coast. The results
were published in Environmental Archeology and Cultural Systems
in Hamilton Inlet, Labrador. During the past two years he has
shifted his attention northward.

The basic cultural adaptions to the Labrador environment are
at times subject to disruptive cultural-historical and ecological
pressures—especially the latter. Climatic controls, operating through
changes in the prevalence of forest fires, winter icing of caribou
feeding grounds, and shifts of sea-ice distribution have caused
ecological crises.

For the Indians in the interior, the icing over of the barren
ground lichen cover or its destruction by fire means the starvation
of the herds of caribou upon which they are dependent. It takes
many years for the caribou herds to rebuild when this happens and

Science / 97
— _— ery : ‘ : .
et bcd ee, Oe a sa .
Dr. William Fitzhugh at work excavating a two-family Dorset Eskimo (ca. A.D. 400)

semi-subterranean winter house in northern Labrador. Below: Dr. Fitzhugh holding
Indian and Eskimo artifacts up to a map to show where they were found in Labrador.

EE ee

—z—>
fe)

ENTRYWAY

2m

KOLIKTALIK 1 HdCg -2

DORSET WINTER HOUSE PLAN

-KEY-

ROUNDED ROCKS

FLAT ROCKS

3s
KITCHEN >:

a APRURINE, LAMP

Plan and cross section of Dorset Culture winter house, northern Labrador
(ca. A. D. 400)

the Indian populations starve because they cannot sustain them-
selves on a year-round basis by hunting other animals and fishing.

Dr. Fitzhugh says that there is evidence that this drastic caribou-
Indian population collapse—which we know occurred in both the
nineteenth and early twentieth centuries—was a fairly common
occurrence in the prehistory of the Labrador-Quebec peninsula. The
consequence for the famine stricken Indians was often cultural
extinction. Eventually the caribou herds would reestablish, Indian
hunters would drift upward into Labrador from Quebec, and a cul-
ture would form and the cycle would repeat itself.

Labrador’s Eskimo populations were dependent on a diverse ma-
rine ecology that was much more stable than conditions in the
interior. But during very cold periods, when ice pack conditions in
the north made it difficult to hunt along the coast, their populations
shifted southward. This happened most recently in 800-100 B.c.

Science / 99
(the Little Ice Age) when the Eskimo Dorset culture displaced the
Indians from their important fishing territories in southern Labrador.
There was tension and perhaps warfare between the Indians and
Eskimos during this period. The Eskimos would have been at a
tactical disadvantage. The Indian was nomadic and highly mobile
and the permanent Eskimo settlements would have been an easy
target, especially as the Eskimos extended themselves farther and
farther down the coast.

African Ethnology

The Himba are a pastoral cattle-keeping people that live in a harsh
and remote mountainous area of Angola and South West Africa.
Dr. Gordon D. Gibson, the National Museum of Natural History’s
specialist on African ethnology, is studying the life of these people.
Demographic information is one part of this life but it is not easily
accessible because the Himba, like most preliterate peoples, do not
count the years of their lives or the years passed since critical
events. Their time chronology is based on important events or
“epochs” in the region in which they live. Thus, if an investigator
asks a Himba when he was born, he might reply that it was during
the epoch of the locust invasion as readily as we would reply to the
same question with a numerical year, like 1923.

Dr. Gibson found that drought and famine, which are common
to southwestern Angola and South West Africa, are the events
most frequently memorialized in epoch names. Seasons of plentiful
rain are also recalled, as well as pestilences (animal rather than
human), plagues of insects and vermin, wars, problems brought by
administration, magicians, problems (other than wars) concerning
relations with other tribes, acculturative changes, deaths of impor-
tant people, and the abundance of certain wild fruits.

Some events that brought neither bad nor good to the Himba but
were merely remarkable are also found as names of years; for
example, an airplane disaster in the region, a rainy season with
many lightning storms, an abundance of red velvet mites, and the
occasion when the chief of the Ngambwe asked the Himba to kill
a rhinoceros so that he could have shoes made of rhino hide.

Most adult Himbas that Dr. Gibson questioned were able to pro-
vide a sequence of epoch names relating to specific events in their
region, but before a number of these could be combined into a

100 / Smithsonian Year 1975
»
‘

2 RRe gy eee ee re
o et? gage peeet
see? ater et

Dr. Gordon Gibson holding an example of the hair ornament shown

in the

enlarged photograph next to him. Below: Dr. Gibson interviews some of the

Himba people.

Plants,
190. are
endanger

Are
flowers

endangered
next?

These Plants, and fd
More May Soon Be Extinct

Avena siretec. We Roper

3,200 American ed by Extinction
‘ Smithsonian Urges Action to Save Rare Orchids and Cacti

SLE ERE i ae
~

/

Flo way. - -
commends that special areas

© where plants live in the wild be preserved
oe INT

4 30 s, ecies of orchids top plants
en‘t the only things on &

aé oxepel eer NS 4"
3 fe aelage. Peay oe 8 me

fous

weet Pitcher Plant
in Carolina marshlands

The Plants We
Destroy Could
Save Our Lives

ee
Man's growth
tramples

wild flowers

Things,
Out

o Worry About Such

Some People t
cure Plants fre Dying

Ins Hard for
But a Report Says Many Obs

i

i

i

ail

ii

i

‘
5

$13
t

: Spoloo erga
7 n en
\

Fare Laveaha Towne, bivoming i the Cancacie eather
ews oy take se 8 Sorin.

Rare plants may be doomed many

ose © 0 ver

88 Northwest species threatened

Se ae meme

Few Havens Left

atened With Extinction ~
>

Plants Thre

cast tons arse
2 toe ae mor Se
We ong
A Sasgee tind Ire IM

sae ene Nn OE

correctly ordered master list and correlated with European years,
some troublesome obstacles had to be overcome.

Dr. Gibson found that persons from the same area who claim to
be able to recite the names of the years in continuous order gen-
erally do not agree completely, either in the order they give them
or the names of the year included. Names often differed from place
to place also, some having widespread usage while others were very
localized; and there were many synonyms as well as some homon-
ymous year names among the more than 300 epochal names Dr.
Gibson collected.

In spite of these problems, Dr. Gibson was eventually able to
come up with a well-supported sequence for his master list of
epochs. By consulting archival sources he then documented several
of the epochs in the list, so that “tie points” to the Christian years
are not separated by more than about five years. With this list he
can determine with a good degree of approximation Himba indi-
viduals’ current ages and their ages at life crises—data important
for certain kinds of sociological research.

DEPARTMENT OF BOTANY

Cactus plants, once plentiful in desert areas of the United States,
are being hunted and sold in plant shops for large sums of money—
rarer species fetching as much as $300 apiece. As a consequence
botanists fear that they may soon become extinct. They are among
a growing list of native American plants that are vanishing because
of exploitation or because the areas in which they grow are being
destroyed by development. Scientists estimate that about 10 percent
of the total flora in the United States is either endangered or
threatened.

In September 1974, Dr. Edward S. Ayensu, Chairman of the
National Museum of Natural History’s Botany Department, con-
vened an international meeting of botanists and administrators
at American Horticultural Society headquarters, Mount Vernon,
Virginia. He was acting in accordance with Congress’ 1973 En-
dangered Species Act, which requested that the Secretary of the
Smithsonian, in conjunction with other affected organizations, begin
reviewing the species of plants which are now or may become
endangered or threatened and methods of adequately conserving
such species.

Science / 103
Attending the meeting were representatives of the Departments
of Interior and Agriculture, Council on Environmental Quality,
National Science Foundation, Nature Conservancy, and a number
of universities and botanical gardens. Foreign representatives were
also present, including Dr. J. K. Morton of Canada, chairman of
the committee on Rare and Endangered Species in the Canadian
Flora, and Grenville Lucas, Royal Botanic Gardens, England,
Threatened Plant Committee, Secretary, International Union for
Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources.

Nine recommendations, compiled under Dr. Ayensu’s super-
vision, were subsequently submitted to Congress in a report by
Secretary Ripley. Sent to Congress with the recommendations was
a list of about 750 endangered and 1200 threatened plants in the
mainland United States. A separate list of over 1000 endangered
or threatened kinds for Hawaii was also included. These species,
either very rare or with local or limited distribution, are subject to
threats, or are heavily depleted by destruction of habitats or by
commercial or private collectors.

The report was the first organized attempt to produce a list of
threatened and endangered species for the entire United States.
Museum of Natural History botanists realize that this is only a
start, but a continued program is proposed to review and assess
natural areas that contain endangered and threatened plant species.

Pollen Research

Dr. Joan W. Nowicke, whose speciality is the study of pollen
grains, is part of an international group which is gathering scien-
tific data on one of the most unusual and controversial groups of
flowering plants, the Order Centrospermae. This Order has at least
10,000 species distributed among eleven families including the
cactus, pokeweed, four-o’clock, cockscomb, and carnation families
and several others. Studies have shown that nine of this Order’s
eleven families have a unique red pigment, the nitrogen-containing
betacyanins which substitute for the anthocyanin pigments found
in other flowering plants.

Part of the controversy is over whether the two families without
betacyanins should be included in this Order. In examining the
pollen grains of more than 200 species Dr. Nowicke has found that
the vast majority of the grains in the betacyanin families and the

104 / Smithsonian Year 1975

Pollen Grains in the Order Centrospermae. Top left: a grain from the carnation
family which illustrates the common type found in the betacyanin families and the
two disputed anthocyanin families. Top right: a specialized grain from the cockscomb
family. Middle left: a specialized grain in the cactus family. Middle right: a very
unusual grain, cube shaped, and found in a small tropical family, the Basellaceae.
Lower left: the pollen grain of Bougainvillea, a member of the four-o’clock family.
Lower right: another member of the carnation family, but a specialized type. All of
the above pictures are highly magnified scanning electron micrographs.
Dr. Terry Erwin studying ground beetles that have moved into the trees

on Barro Colorado Island.

Artist: George Venable. Loricera rotundicallis.

Calosoma alternana.
two disputed families have the same surface patterns. Thus pollen
morphology supports a close tie between the betacyanin families
and the two anthocyanin families. Using the result of the study as
a base, Dr. Nowicke is surveying the pollen surface patterns of
families which are thought to be related or derived from the Cen-
trospermae, and thus far it appears that no other flowering plants
branched off from the Centrospermae group.

DEPARTMENT OF ENTOMOLOGY

“Where Have All the Ground Beetles Gone?” was the title of a
lecture given last year by Dr. Terry Erwin at the National Museum
of Natural History. Only a handful of scientists in the world are
as well qualified as he is to address such a question even though
the ground beetle family (Carabidae) is the third largest family of
beetles (40,000+ species).

Dr. Erwin’s field observations at the Smithsonian Tropical Re-
search Institute’s (str1) Barro Colorado Island have given him evi-
dence that ground beetles moved from tropical wetlands—the “‘boil-
ing pot” for their evolution—in an ecological progression from the
wetlands onto the forest floor, then into the forest undercanopy,
and finally upward into the treetops. He has pioneered in tracing
the specialized tropical life cycles developed by the beetles on the
forest floor and undercanopy and plans future work at str1 and
elsewhere that will eventually take him on eighty-foot-high cat-
walks so that he can study life in the treetops. There is an urgency
to this project because when the forests are cut, as is happening in
Latin America, hundreds of these forest top species are irretrievably
lost.

The National Museum of Natural History has a half-million
ground beetles in its collections, making it probably second in size
only to the British Museum. When Dr. Erwin came to NMNH in
1971 he found these collections poorly organized because no ground
beetle specialist had ever been employed at the Museum before.
He has since sorted all of these specimens to tribe level, and many to
generic and species level. The wealth of data available in the col-
lections and the opportunity to work at str1 launched him into a
massive systematic study of the ground beetles of Central America.

When completed, this study will cover more than 2000 species,
probably 40 percent of them undescribed in scientific literature.

Science / 107
All of the natural history and geographical information on each
species is being computerized by Dr. Erwin’s wife La Verne, who
is a full partner in the project and will co-author the six-volume
study. Heretofore, projects one-third this size have taken from
twenty-five to thirty years but computerization will enable them to
finish it in a fourth of the time.

The computer will be able to generate ground beetle distribution
maps and keep them updated as new material is acquired; and make
it possible to correlate faster than ever before such specimen-
related data as altitude, range, plant association, parasites, and so
on. Up to sixty categories of data are being fed into the computer
for each newly acquired specimen, as compared to an average of
only fifteen recorded for older specimens.

The Erwins have designed each volume to be a systematic study
with much natural history data included which can be used by
amateurs or mathematical ecologists to simply identify specimens
or to seek geographical and ecological data. And from volume six,
the all-important faunal analysis, people will be able to learn where
all the ground beetles have gone.

DEPARTMENT OF INVERTEBRATE ZOOLOGY

At the National Museum of Natural History a great deal of
interest in Ascension Island’s invertebrate animals has been stimu-
lated by a field trip made there in 1971 by Dr. Raymond B. Man-
ning, a specialist in decapods (an order of crustaceans that includes
shrimps, lobsters, and crabs). Like earlier scientists, he was inter-
ested in Ascension’s land crabs. But casting his net over a wider
area, he took the opportunity to make an intensive survey of the
marine life in the Island’s lava tidal pools and shallow shore waters.

Because of Ascension’s isolation and relative geological youth—
estimates of its age make it no older than one million years—it is
an excellent natural laboratory on which one can study where its
marine animals originated, how this life was dispersed and carried
to Ascension by currents and other means, and what adaptions it
has made to its environment since its arrival.

An example of the Island’s puzzling fauna, collected by Dr.
Manning in two tidal pools on the western edge of the Island,
were two unusual shrimps, one unique in being clawless and lack-
ing sexual modifications. In the report on the two shrimps, written

108 / Smithsonian Year 1975
Clawless Shrimp Procaris ascensionis. x7. Drawing by Dr. Fenner Chase.

Dr. Raymond Manning examines an Ascension crab.

j g = a

Glomar Challenger. Below: Dr. William Melson and colleague, Dr. Fabrizio Aumento,
examining core samples aboard Glomar Challenger.

with his colleague Dr. Fenner A. Chase, Jr., Two New Caridean
Shrimps, One Representing a New Family, from Marine Pools on
Ascension Island, the NMNH scientists noted that one of the shrimps
had relatives living in subterranean fresh water habitats in the West
Indies and Galapagos Islands whereas the other one had no obvious
close relatives. Within a year a relative of the latter shrimp was
found in a similar habitat, a saltwater pool in a lava flow, in Hawaii.
How two very similar species of the same genus came to occupy
the same habitats in such widely separated areas remains an in-
triguing mystery.

Drs. Manning and Chace are now engaged in completing their
study of the more than forty other species of decapods collected
by Dr. Manning on Ascension, based on samples taken from a
variety of shallow-water habitats there. Dr. Joseph Rosewater has
recently published a survey of the Ascension mollusks collected by
Dr. Manning An Annotated List of the Marine Mollusks of Ascen-
sion Island, South Atlantic Ocean, and Dr. David L. Pawson is
studying the echinoderms Dr. Manning brought back. The deep-
water fauna off Ascension remains poorly known.

DEPARTMENT OF MINERAL SCIENCES

“The ocean is almost like a mirror today—almost glassy smooth,
like a great quiet lake. An intense morning—looking at our longest
core so far—core 44—7.1 meters of gloriously interesting material.
All is well! All is delightful for Leg 37” so wrote Dr. William
Melson, Chairman of the NMNH Department of Mineral Sciences,
who spent part of last year on board the U. S. Research Vessel
Glomar Challenger, the ship that for six years has been circling
the earth, relentlessly drilling and coring the ocean floor for scien-
tific purposes.

This notation in his log was written the day the drill reached 563
meters (about 1800 feet) on its way to an historic 1910-foot pene-
tration of the ocean floor.

It was to be the deepest of five borings made during Leg 37 in
1600 feet of water at sites off the Azores near the Mid-Atlantic
ridge. Each of the five holes—measuring 333, 405, 1102, 1092, and
1912 feet—exceeded the previous record penetration into the vol-
canic rocks beneath the ocean floor. The five borings yielded more
than 3000 core samples of igneous and sedimentary rock, which

Science / 111
are now undergoing laboratory analysis at the Smithsonian and
other major research centers in the United States, Union of Soviet
Socialist Republics, Canada, France, Germany, and Great Britain.

Earlier legs of the Glomar Challenger had only sought to bring
up cores of the sediment layers that overlie the hard rocks of the
ocean floor. These have given an immense amount of paleonto-
logical information about the early history of the earth. On Leg 37,
however, the Glomar Challenger had for the first time directed its
capabilities at the ocean’s basement rock.

Its probes made it possible to study how crust forms during sea
floor spreading. The data from Leg 37’s sites confirmed that the sea
floor is spreading from the Mid-Atlantic rift at the rate of 1.1
centimeters a year a few hundred miles south of the Azores. The
scientists were also able to see what is happening deep inside the
earth’s mantle, locate mineral and oil deposits in the oceanic crust,
and study the origin of the magnetic strips below the earth’s ocean
basins and past reversals of the earth’s magnetism.

Dr. Melson was cruise co-chief scientist with Dr. Fabrizio
Aumento of Dalhousie University, Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada.
Assisted by information provided by the thirteen other scientists
comprising the international crew, they made such critical decisions
as the exact location of the drill sites.

DEPARTMENT OF PALEOBIOLOGY

In late January 1975 in the cattle ranching country of northern
Queensland, Australia, paleobotanist Dr. Francis Hueber pried out
of a low sandstone ledge the fossilized remains of a 360-million-
year-old Devonian plant. It was the best preserved specimen found
of this Devonian genus and for Dr. Hueber it was a major stride
forward on a project that began seventeen years ago.

Back in 1958 he had collected four or five isolated fragments of
the same genus in New York’s Catskill Mountains. Unfortunately,
the fragments, which, oddly, were starshaped in cross section, were
not large and complete enough to indicate much about the plant.
More fossil material was needed. Because it was unlikely that any
more would turn up in New York, Australia seemed to be the best
place to look, since a piece of the same genus had been found
there in the nineteenth century at a site on the Fanning River in
northern Queensland.

112 / Smithsonian Year 1975
It was nine years before Dr. Hueber was able to get to Australia.
When he did it was to collect fossil material in the State of Victoria
connected with research he was doing on other Devonian plants.
But he took the opportunity to go north for a few days and locate
the site on the Fanning River. In Devonian times the area appar-
ently had been a great river delta near the ocean,and trees and other
plants had floated down river and sunk into the delta sands and
muds. Dr. Hueber hastily surveyed the area’s sandstone formations
and was encouraged when he found more scraps of the fossil. The
material that he was able to collect turned out to be rather poorly
preserved but revealed the fact that the plant instead of being
herbaceous of habit was in truth a tree. But another problem arose
—were the star-shaped strands of wood the tree’s roots or branches?
The anatomy of the trunk was of a complex nature and did not give
clear evidence for orientation of the specimens. Therefore, which
way was up?

In 1970, Dr. Hueber returned to northern Queensland after Don
Wyatt, an Australian geologist, wrote that high water in the Fan-
ning River area had cleared a mudstone layer in which two masses
of the fossilized tree he was looking for were exposed. The geolo-
gist had interpreted the fossils as the tops of the trees with their
branches spread out through the matrix. Dr. Hueber collected a
considerable amount of the fossil material but when he got it back
to the Museum found it useless in solving the problem. The tree
fragments had so badly rotted before fossilization that it was im-
possible to determine clearly the orientation of the specimens.

It was on his third trip in 1975 that Dr. Hueber and Don Wyatt
discovered the key 8-inch by 11-inch chunk of log weathering out
of the sandstone ledge. Though it has not yet been cut into sections
at the Museum and studied, Dr. Hueber is reasonably certain that
the anatomy of the specimen is intact and that the orientation of
the specimen indicates that the star-shaped strands are the tree’s
roots.

Importantly in tracing the early evolution of the plant kingdom
this discovery marks a point in geologic time at which roots can be
defined as an integral part of the plant body. Most land plants
during the Devonian Period (which began 395 million years ago)
relied upon the absorptive abilities of their stems which trailed
along or were partially buried in the muds and swampy soils of the

Science / 113
a

= “
‘a aae:

*

iy
\

«

8) bia BY

ade <i am

&

d-

below:
: Site of Dr. Hueber’s study of Devonian

ied out of a san

in his office. Facing page,

ear-old Devonian plant pr

above: Dr. Francis Hueber at work

The fossilized remains of a 360-million-y

stone ledge in Australia by Dr.

Facing page,

¢
zm
i=)
=)
Ww
3
<x
ae}
c
nore
ae
a)
a)
cae
OO
o
fe)
7)
3
a

plant fossils near the Fanning River,

ancient river deltas and coastal swamps. The root was gradually
evolved over a period of about twenty-five million years and the
plant Dr. Hueber is studying represents one of those very early
plants in which the differentiation of the plant body into stem and
root was achieved. It marks an important step in the history of the
plant kingdom.

DEPARTMENT OF VERTEBRATE ZOOLOGY

Dr. Richard Thorington continued his studies on troops of howler
monkeys on Barro Colorado Island at the Smithsonian Tropical
Research Institute. The monkeys usually can be located by their
strong smell and noisy chorus. A troop’s eighteen monkeys move
slowly along through the treetops, feeding on the fruit of fig and
hog plum trees and roaring and howling at any stranger who dares
invade their territorial area.

Many studies of the social behavior of the Barro Colorado howl-
ers have been made, dating back to the work of Dr. C. R. Carpenter
in the 1930s, but Dr. Thorington is the first scientist to undertake
a study of their long-term population dynamics and the factors that
influence it.

An anesthesia dart-gun is used to get the monkeys out of the
trees. When they wobble and fall they are caught in a net and then
morphological measurements, toothcasts, fingerprints, blood sam-
ples, and biopsies are quickly taken. Before they are released white
bands are freeze branded on their tails so that they can be identi-
fied in the future for recapture. More than forty howlers have been
marked in this way since 1972, when the study began.

The project has already yielded interesting information. Chromo-
some analysis of tissue cultures sent to Dr. Ma and Dr. Jones at
Harvard’s New England Regional Primate Research Center, shows
that there is an odd translocation of a Y chromosome in the male
howler over to one of the (nonsex bearing) autosomes. This gives
the female 54 chromosomes to the male’s 53; and the patterning
of footprints, fingerprints, and tailprints of the Barro Colorado
howlers and those of Costa Rica have been found to be curiously
different. Dr. Thorington and Dr. Jefferey Froehlich (at that time,
a postdoctoral student) are studying this patterning to see if there
is any basic genetic difference in the two monkey populations.

116 / Smithsonian Year 1975

_
One of the howler monkeys in a troupe on Barro Colorado Island studied by
Dr. Richard Thorington. Below: Dr. Thorington measuring the circumference
of one of the trees where the howler monkeys feed. Such data is used in the
study which correlates productivity of the forest with fluctuations in the
monkey population.

Most of Dr. Thorington’s findings will come in over a much
longer term because howler monkeys live for a long time, perhaps
twenty years. Gradually he is documenting life spans, death rates,
and the frequency of births to different aged females.

By marking and mapping the trees in the forest that the monkeys
use—and studying the trees’ flowering, fruiting, and leafing cycles
—Dr. Thorington hopes to obtain indices of the annual produc-
tivity of the forest and find what impact its fluctuations have on
the monkey population.

Results of the research have indicated a long-term stability of
food resources. In 1955 there was a study of where the monkeys
moved and where they fed. Many of the trees are the exact same
ones in which the howlers feed today. Over a twenty-year period
the distribution of resources appears to have changed little. This is
an important factor in the social life of these monkeys, as well.

But there are gradual inexorable changes occurring in the mon-
keys’ habitat. Botanists who have examined the Island’s fig and hog
plum trees for Dr. Thorington have noted that the trees do not
seem to be producing seedlings, which leads him to believe that the
main food supply of the howlers is going to become less and less
abundant in the years ahead.

Yellow fever has the potential of causing a swift and devastating
impact on the monkey population. Dr. Thorington in collaboration
with the Middle American Research Unit (Maru) has been able to
establish that howlers do not have antibodies to this disease. In
1949, the last time yellow fever swept through the Central Ameri-
can forests, it killed up to 75 percent of the Island’s monkeys.
Since then the Island howler population has increased from 250 in
1951 to 800 in 1959 and in the last eight years has risen to 1500.
But in 1974-1975 yellow fever cases have been reported again in
the forest, spreading toward the Canal Zone, and Dr. Thorington
is afraid that an epidemic could strike Barro Colorado Island.

118 / Smithsonian Year 1975
National Zoological Park

In the Orient, this is the year of the hare. The past year at the
National Zoological Park could be well called the year of the cater-
pillar—tractor that is. The highest visible sign of activity to the
visitors and the staff has been the construction program throughout
the Zoo. One-third of the exhibition areas have been in the process
of renovation. The lion and tiger exhibits have grown from a hole
in the ground to a recognizable structure. One can now see the
outline of the walls, moats, and the viewing areas. Internally, the
quarters for the big cats are evolving in an orderly fashion from
the beginning of seeming chaos. Delays from strikes and weather
have occurred but it is now hoped that occupancy and dedication
will take place about Easter of 1976.

The occupants of the elephant house suffered the most incon-
venience for they were confined to their quarters almost the entire
year while their outside yards were being enlarged by a factor of
three. The visitor has had on display the lumbering antics of bull-
dozers, backhoes, cranes, and cement trucks accompanied by their
frantic hard-hatted keepers. They have pushed their work so that
the giraffes were returned to their outside yard five months ahead
of the contract completion date. When the outside doors were
finally opened, the giraffes gazed out on their new yards, which are
five times larger than their previous inadequate space, for three
days. Finally, the late afternoon the third day the young colt which
had been born in late spring ventured out and was quickly followed
by his mother and the other giraffes. For the first time in the history
of the Zoo, the giraffes have enough space to run, kick up their
heels, and frolic. The sight of these graceful animals cantering is
indeed a reward for the months of planning, contract negotiations,
confinement, and general inconvenience to the visitors. The giraffes
are viewed behind a low moat. The path around the yard extends
up on a low hillock to the north of the building so that the visitors
actually have a giraffe eye-level view of these graceful animals.
Also completed were the new pygmy hippopotamus yards which
are the same size as previously but have a new moat system and
outside pools. It is anticipated that shortly the Indian elephants will
have the use of their new yard with its much enlarged bathing
pool and that by Thanksgiving of 1975 the hippopotamuses,

Science / 119
African elephant, and Indian rhinoceroses will be enjoying spacious
outside quarters.

The level plaza surrounding the bird house is being completely
redeveloped for three new duck ponds in front of the building,
crane yards on the left, new flamingo pool, and exhibit behind in
additional small cages scattered throughout the area. The project
has been divided into two phases. Roughly half of the work is to be
completed before the second half starts so that the birds are not
completely removed from their homes. Visitors arrive at the side
entrance to the bird house after passing the old eagle cage on the
right and the new waterfowl pond construction on the left. The
breeding pair of American bald eagles rather disdainfully super-
vised the work in progress. They did take time off to build a nest
and lay two eggs but, unfortunately, the eggs did not hatch. With
good luck and fair weather the project will be completed about
Thanksgiving of 1975.

Remodeling of the 1904 monkey house, as described in Smith-
sonian Year 1974, was completed early in the winter and the
cage decorations were assembled. Because it is so difficult to dup-
licate natural trees in such a manner that the animals cannot
destroy them with their ingenious minds and busy fingers, it was
decided that the timbers developed in the past few years for chil-
dren’s playground equipment would be used. The monkey habits,
whether they be climbing, jumping, leaping, or swinging were taken
into consideration and a specific design was made for each species.
The swinging monkeys, such as the spider monkey, have plenty of
ropes to swing from while the leaping monkeys, like the colobus,
have platforms on which to bounce back and forth. Altogether it
has produced a very active exhibit which is pleasing to the visitors.
Zoo personnel are highly pleased that the monkeys accepted their
new furniture with joyous abandon. Despite an aggressive, com-
petent, supple minded, and knowledgeable staff, it is with trepida-
tion that we attempt to predict the behavior of animals. It is very
heart warming to have the monkeys’ approval of our plans and
efforts.

The first Smithsonian Associates Women’s Committee auction
in mid-May of this year marked the official dedication and opening
of the monkey house. Following a delightful meal served in the
newly refurbished center of the old building, items and services

120 / Smithsonian Year 1975
Giraffes in the new yards at the National Zoo. In the foreground can be
seen a section of the Indian elephants’ yard under construction. Below: Giraffe
in its new yard at the National Zoo enjoys “people watching.”

Asi a
hare

ye EE
A view of one of the redecorated cages in the renovated Monkey House at
the National Zoo. The “furniture” inside the cage was specially designed for
these spider monkeys. The logs are solid oak. The ropes, simulating lianas,
are two-inch thick manila rope. All the cages in the Monkey House have
been designed with special features for the specific monkeys involved.

pertaining to the various bureaus of the Smithsonian Institution
were spiritedly bid for by a distinguished company of humans. One
of the elderly and distinguished colobus monkeys was heard to com-
ment that even for the sake of education he would never make a
human out of himself. All in all,the monkeys seemed to enjoy the
evening with slightly blase tolerant amusement. The visiting public
has expressed great pleasure in the “new” old monkey house, com-
menting that the lowered cage floors give good visibility to small
children and that the plateglass does not obstruct the viewing. The
monkeys are appreciative of the fact that they no longer have to
smell human beings.

In addition to the three major pieces of construction all through
the Zoo there have been smaller jobs being accomplished prepara-
tory for the Bicentennial year. At the year’s end, one dozen projects
were underway and on target, with twice as many due to be active

122 / Smithsonian Year 1975

by late fall. Work is now in progress on ramps for the small
mammal house and reptile house. When these are completed, all
exhibits will be accessible to wheel chairs and baby carriages.

Since the Zoo has changed its contracting practices to one of
direct contracting rather than, as formerly, through the General
Services Administration, the workload has increased tremendously.
The Zoo was fortunate in having Mr. Robert C. Engle join the staff
as engineer and Mr. Fred Barwick as Zoo contracting officer.

CONSERVATION AND RESEARCH CENTER,
FRONT ROYAL, VIRGINIA

On June 22, 1975, the General Services Administration transferred
some 3100 acres of magnificent fields, forest, pasture, springs, and
farm structures to the Smithsonian Institution, thus making official
and legal the Zoo’s tenancy at the old cavalry remount station at
Front Royal. Previously, the Zoo had been occupying and develop-
ing this area under a use permit. Dr. Christen M. Wemmer, who
joined the Zoo staff from the Brookfield Zoo in Chicago, heads up
the Center ably and is enthusiastically assisted by fifteen employees,
some of whom were previously state or federal agricultural em-
ployees and are continuing their long careers at the site. Together
they have established successful farming, maintenance, and animal
management programs. Last year two large pastures were enclosed
and one of the old horse barns refurbished. This year two addi-
tional horse barns were refurbished and four more large pastures
were enclosed. Now in residence are Felds deer, bongo, kangaroo,
zebra (two foals born), bactrian camels, rheas, as well as the scimi-
tar horn oryx and Pere David deer which were established last
year. In cooperation and conjunction with the newly formed Minne-
sota State Zoological Garden at Minneapolis, eight bactrian camels
were secured and are now in residence at the Center. Maria, our
female bactrian camel, returned to us from Cleveland bringing her
consort, Jimmy. Early this spring one of the new females produced
a lovely, if somewhat grotesque, calf.

Dr. D. Kleiman planned a facility at one of the barns in the cen-
tral part of the Center’s campus for a comparative canid behavior
study. The cages for maned wolves, bush dogs, and crab-eating
foxes have been constructed and presently two pairs of maned
wolves are in residence and under study. These animals were

Science / 123
secured through the cooperation of Brazilian officials and Dr. Mario
Autuori of the Sao Paulo Zoo. The study of these animals, with
particular emphasis on their social and reproductive behavior, will
continue for several years.

Besides maintaining the present facility and producing 300 tons
of hay for general Zoo use, exciting plans and programs are being
formulated for the Center’s future development.

OFFICE OF ANIMAL MANAGEMENT

The most notable event for the Office of Animal Management was
the hatching of a kiwi chick early in the year. This is the first time
that this New Zealand bird has hatched outside of New Zealand
and Australia. The incubation period is uncertain although reported
to be fifty days. The male, who incubates the egg, hid the egg for
a time, and the office was only aware of its presence for the twenty
days prior to its hatching. Great consternation prevailed since there
was no knowledge of how to feed the young chick; finally it was
decided to double the amount of feed being fed to the adults and
hope for the best. Fortunately, the male instructed the young chick
in the proper methods of feeding and under this regimen it has
thrived and grown mightily. The female pays little or no attention
to either the egg or her offspring, leaving everything after egg-
laying entirely up to the cock.

The lesser pandas produced a litter of four kits, which means
that these animals are now breeding into the second generation.
It is hoped a strong breeding colony of this charming Asiatic animal
can be established.

The nene geese, inspired by the example of the previous years,
decided to outdo themselves this year. Between February and March
nineteen goslings were hatched from the eggs of three laying pairs.
At one time the Zoo’s exhibit consisted of twenty-eight of this
highly endangered Hawaiian state bird.

The Utah prairie dogs produced ten babies this year. The Office
of Animal Management completed its studies of these animals and
contemplates sending them to the University of Utah for additional
observations.

The white tiger cubs, reported last year at Cincinnati, continue to
thrive. They are straight-legged, big-boned, husky young cubs, and
are expected to be returned to Washington, D.C., next Easter.

124 / Smithsonian Year 1975

The first kiwi ever hatched and reared outside of its native New Zealand, except for
Australia, was an outstanding event for the National Zoo. After the female lays the
egg she has no further interest in it and the egg is incubated for a period of 75-80
days by the male. The chick was named Toru, the Maori word for “three.” Photo:
Washington Post.

Growing at the rate of two pounds a day, the first born bactrian camel at the Front
Royal Conservation and Research Center brings the National Zoo’s camel herd up to
eleven, the largest herd in North America. The baby was named “Number One.”
Photo: Leo Slaughter.

In keeping with the Zoo’s plans and responsibility toward the
animal kingdom, animals continue to be paired by sending them
out on breeding loan to other zoos. At the present time thirty-two
mammals, eight reptiles, and numerous birds are deposited in other
zoos. Cooperation among all zoos in the United States is growing.
More and more emphasis is being placed on replacement of zoo
stock by zoo breeding and interexchange of animals.

The Office of Animal Management, under general curator Jaren
Horsley, is continuing efforts to enrich contributions to animal-
keeping and to broaden representation in the ranks with the hiring
of ten women animal-keepers. Curatorial involvement in animal-
exhibit planning resulted in excellent cage furnishing of the monkey
house. Research activities increased in the office with two papers
given by animal-keepers at professional meetings and with the
addition to the staff of a herpetologist, Dr. Dale Marcellini, who will
develop the research programs based on the collection.

The most distressing death during the year was that of the large,
old male komodo dragon, Kalana, who had been in residence for
five years. During the past few months he failed noticeably, losing
weight, and decreasing in activity. It was finally determined that
euthanasia would be best for the animal. Post mortem revealed
that he had a growth on the heart valve which produced a valvular
insufficiency, with the associated backup of blood and circulatory
deficiencies common in this condition.

The giant pandas, Ling-Ling and Hsing-Hsing, continue to be a
main visitor attraction. This past April the young female came into
heat for the third year. As reported last year, expectations of having
a successful breeding were high. Unfortunately, the male was still
not physically mature during this meeting. We hope the next meet-
ing in April will prove successful.

OFFICE OF ZOOLOGICAL RESEARCH

The year for the Office of Zoological Research has been most pro-
ductive. Previous programs and studies have continued with some
major additions. In the fall of 1974, final plans were made with
Venezuelan scientists to inaugurate a program of field studies in
vertebrate behavior and ecology in conjunction with Venezuelan
researchers and students. Dr. G. G. Montgomery visited Venezuela

126 / Smithsonian Year 1975

in June and July and radio-tracked both the giant anteaters and
golden anteaters on the ranch of a Venezuelan collaborator, Sr.
Tomas Blomh. In January Dr. Eisenberg and Dr. Marcellini under-
took preliminary field investigations on herpetological and mam-
malian studies. In March Dr. Eisenberg and Dr. Eugene Morton
continued the field research undertaken in January by Dr. Eisen-
berg. In June Dr. Eisenberg and two graduate students spent con-
siderable time in the field working on the general problems and
specifically that of the small mammals. It is anticipated that the
work in Venezuela will continue for several years and should prove
extremely fruitful.

Dr. Devra Kleiman of the research staff has started a study in
the communications and reproduction behavior of South American
canids. This animal group provides a variety of social organization
(e.g., the maned wolf is a solitary animal, the crab-eating foxes
live in pairs, and the third individual to be studied, the bush dog,
lives in family groups or small packs); a difference in physical size;
and a separation in geography. Cage facilities have been con-
structed at the Front Royal Conservation and Research Center and
two pairs of maned wolves are now in residence and under study.

Dr. Eugene Morton joined the Office of Zoological Research this
past fiscal year as staff ornithologist. Dr. Morton has previously
worked at Smithsonian facilities in Panama and the Chesapeake
Bay Center on behavior and vocalization of avifauna. Currently,
Dr. Morton is working in Venezuela and at Front Royal, where he
has initiated studies on bluebirds and turkey vultures.

W. P. Dittus received his Ph.D. in August 1974 on work done
in Sri Lanka on the tocque macque. Dr. Dittus, at that time a mem-
ber of the research department staff, is presently continuing his
work in Sri Lanka under the auspices of the Max Planck Institute.

In April, Victoria Guerrero received her Ph.D. degree on studies
concerning the hormone control of courtship behavior in the green
acouchi. All of her investigative work was done at the Zoo.

In May 1975, Dr. Montgomery chaired a conference on arboreal-
folivore at Front Royal. The conference gathered together thirty
international scientists to discuss the impact of vertebrate and
invertebrate feeding on the leaves of the tropical forest and the
co-evolution of animals and plants in the tropical forest. The pro-

Science / 127
ceedings of the conference will be published later as part of the
Smithsonian series.

Under the joint auspices of the National Zoological Park and the
National Institutes of Health, about forty scientists participated in
a conference on the behavior and neurology of lizards held at Front
Royal in May 1975.

OFFICE OF ANIMAL HEALTH AND PATHOLOGY

Work in this department has continued with daily treatment and
disease investigation throughout the Zoo. Studies described in last
year’s annual report have continued. Dr. Robert M. Sauer resigned
as pathologist and has been replaced by Dr. R. Montali, from Johns
Hopkins University.

Of interest was the initiation of a cooperative study with Dr.
U. S. Seal, of the Veterans Hospital in Minneapolis, on contraceptive
techniques in lions and other cats. Dr. Gray and Dr. Bush have
participated in this project, most of the work being done at the Lion
Country Safari at Doswell, Virginia. The study will continue for the
next several years.

A veterinary intern position was established. This will be a fif-
teen-month appointment with the purpose of giving practical
clinical experience to young veterinarian graduates wishing to
specialize in exotic animal medicine. Dr. P. K. Ensley has been
appointed to fill the first internship.

The program of seminars, as described in last year’s annual
report, continues with growing success and participation by veter-
inarians associated with exotic animal medicine in the eastern region
of the United States.

Probably the most noteworthy activity for the Office of Animal
Health and Pathology occurred this late spring and early summer
when there was a sudden outbreak of duck viral enteritis in the
waterfowl ponds. An early diagnosis was made in cooperation with
the Wildlife Disease Laboratories of the United States Department
of Interior. Through the cooperation and assistance of the United
States Department of Agriculture and the Cornell School of Veter-
inary Medicine, vaccine was obtained and promptly administered.
The outbreak was held to a loss of some forty birds. There has
been no recurrence since the waterfowl collection was completely
vaccinated. It is perhaps too soon to feel that all danger is over;

128 / Smithsonian Year 1975
however, it does appear that this disease has been brought under
control by the alert veterinary staff, the early diagnosis, and the
preventative vaccination of the entire collection.

VISITOR SERVICES

The recently created Office of Education and Information is build-
ing into the Zoo’s visitor programs new dimensions in visitor
learning and is guiding the Friends of the National Zoo in their
active volunteer guide and docent program.

The Office of Graphics and Exhibits undertook a wide-ranging
program, highlighted by developing a new standard identification
label and the counseling of designers on the new graphics master
plan for the Zoo. This plan will go into production in 1976 with
a unique trail system for visitors.

In the Office of Protective Services a new health and safety unit
was formed to focus on Zoo needs for improved visitor and em-
ployee safety. New leadership of the police unit has emphasized
officer training and service to visitors.

In the central support group, the Office of Facilities Management
continued to advance the skill levels of employees. A helpers’ train-
ing program was put into effect under capable management, giving
unskilled employees an opportunity to progress in mechanical
abilities, thereby enabling them to compete for positions as skilled
tradesmen in the future. Maintenance programs were expanded,
with the custodial force assuming responsibility for cleaning the
public areas in the animal exhibit buildings; this action released the
keepers for attention to the collections. Great credit must be given
to the skill and devotion of the excellent trade and craft employees,
who maintained the Zoo in an orderly fashion despite the disrup-
tion caused by the construction program.

ADMINISTRATION

At the core of the Zoo’s administrative operation is a small but
highly effective management services unit. The main emphasis of
this office is to help develop administrative control and understand-
ing within each Zoo office by assisting with good central informa-
tion and guidance. There was an overall step-up in staff education
efforts with more than a threefold increase in employee participa-
tion in training over fiscal year 1973. During the year, 118 em-

Science / 129
ployees accomplished 191 educational improvement experiences.
Major emphasis is being made to increase knowledge and skill by
wider participation in this educational program through all areas
of the Zoo. Such noteworthy successes in management, throughout
the Zoo, left the Office of the Director free to concentrate on the
broader problems of guidance and overall management.

As noted earlier in this report, construction was visually domi-
nant within the Zoo in fiscal year 1975. Plans are proceeding for
construction next year in the peripheral areas of the Zoo and the
eventual complete modernization of the entire Zoo. Despite the
turmoil, 1975 has been a busy and exciting year with many notable
advances. The Zoo is anticipating a Bicentennial year that is mean-
ingful and educational for all its visitors.

Office of International Programs

The Office of International Programs provides support to United
States institutions of research and higher learning, including the
Smithsonian, through Foreign Currency Program grants; provides
for the rapid communication of data on natural and environmental
phenomena of short duration through the Center for Short-Lived
Phenomena; provides assistance to Peace Corps environmental and
natural resources programs; and provides liaison services and
assistance in foreign affairs for other offices of the Smithsonian.

SMITHSONIAN FOREIGN CURRENCY PROGRAM

The Smithsonian Foreign Currency Program (srcp) awards grants
to support the basic research interests of American institutions,
including the Smithsonian, in those countries where the United
States holds blocked currencies derived largely from past sales of
surplus agricultural commodities under Public Law 480. The Pro-
gram is active in countries where the Treasury Department deems
United States holdings of these currencies to be in excess of normal
federal requirements, including at present India, Pakistan, Egypt,
Tunisia, and Poland. The Smithsonian received a fiscal year 1975
appropriation of $2 million in “excess’’ currencies which was used
to grant support to over seventy-five projects in the disciplines of

130 / Smithsonian Year 1975
archeology and the anthropological sciences, systematic and en-
vironmental biology, astrophysics and earth sciences, and museum-
related fields. Since its inception in fiscal year 1966, the srcp has
awarded more than $26 million in foreign currency grants to some
eighty-seven institutions in thirty-two states and the District of
Columbia. Within the framework of the program, the Smithsonian
this year made a second contribution of $1 million in support of
international efforts to save the submerged temples at Philae, Egypt.
The srcp participated in interagency negotiations leading to the
establishment of a United States-Polish Joint Board to fund scien-
tific and technical cooperation. This Joint Board, similar in purpose
to the United States-Yugoslav Joint Board, makes it possible to
extend the period for which Polish funds will be available for
research under the srcp.

INTERNATIONAL LIAISON SECTION

The International Liaison Section (11s) provides liaison and assist-
ance to individuals and units of the Smithsonian in dealing with
the Department of State and with foreign governments. It handles
international matters involving travel and research abroad, and
foreign participation in domestic programs of the Smithsonian. 11s
provides passport and visa services for Smithsonian staff, and
assists in research arrangements for foreign visitors. 11s has been
working closely with the Division of Performing Arts in arranging
Bicentennial-related foreign participation in the Festival of Ameri-
can Folklife, and has been involved with foreign participation in
other special Bicentennial activities of the Institution.

CENTER FOR SHORT-LIVED PHENOMENA

The Center operates a worldwide electronic alert system for rapid
communication of scientific data on phenomena of short duration
involving significant changes in biological, ecological, and geo-
physical systems, including rare or unusual animal migrations,
population changes, major floods, forest fires, volcanic eruptions,
earthquakes, landslides; pollution events such as oil and chemical
spills, gas and radioactive substance leaks; and occasional astro-
physical events such as meteorite falls and fireballs. During the
year, the Center reported 235 short-lived events that occurred in
forty-five countries, islands, and ocean areas. Scientific field teams

Science / 131
investigated 160 of the events. The reporting network consists of
2874 scientists, scientific research institutions, and field stations in
185 countries, and is augmented by an International Environmental
Alert Network of 60,000 secondary school and university students
in 691 schools in the United States and twenty-three other coun-
tries.

PEACE CORPS ENVIRONMENTAL PROGRAM

The Smithsonian-Peace Corps Environmental Program provides
assistance in two general areas. It develops Peace Corps projects
and assignments dealing with environmental and natural resource
problems in the developing countries, and it recruits and places
applicants skilled in the environmental biological sciences. Over
800 applications were received in fiscal 1975, and 203 volunteers
with environmental skills were assigned to twenty-six countries.
Within the framework of Peace Corps agreements, host govern-
ments assigned these environmental sciences volunteers to scien-
tific and natural resource conservation programs.

Radiation Biology Laboratory

Sunlight is important for the maintenance of life on the earth. The
energy from sunlight is used by biological systems in two principal
ways: either the energy is converted to food,or the energy is used
to regulate growth and development.

In order for the sunlight to be used in these two ways it must be
absorbed by pigments. A large portion of the laboratory research
this year has been directed toward research on plant pigments
involved in these processes.

Specifically, the laboratory has continued its investigations in:
(a) regulatory processes of plants, such as membrane synthesis and
pigment synthesis; (b) environmental processes and energy flow in
biological systems, such as photosynthesis and phosphorus metabo-
lism; (c) the measurement of the amount, duration and color quality
of sunlight present in the environment; and (d) the age estimation
of biological artifacts based upon their radioactive carbon content.

132 / Smithsonian Year 1975

REGULATORY BIOLOGY

As they evolved, aerobic photosynthetic organisms adapted to the
environment in various ways. In order to harvest a maximum
amount of light from the sun, many organisms evolved pigments
in addition to the principal photosynthetic pigment, chlorophyll a.
These additional pigments absorb sunlight in regions in which there
is only partial absorption by chlorophyll a. Thus, these accessory
pigments extend the range of light available for growth and confer
a survival advantage upon the organisms where they are present.

In the red and blue-green algae, for example, these accessory pig-
ments are packaged in structures known as phycobilisomes. The
phycobilisomes are light-harvesting aggregates of protein pigments
and are arranged on membranes in such a fashion that energy
caught by them from sunlight is transferred to chlorophyll for
photosynthesis.

These phycobilisomes can be seen in electron micrographs of red
and blue-green algae, and methods for isolating and purifying them
have been developed in our laboratory. Analyses of the purified
phycobilisomes have been made by electron microscopy, immuno-
chemistry, fluoresence and absorption spectra, and selective disso-
ciation in various ionic strength buffers over a wide range of pH.
These measurements led to a detailed structural model for light-
harvesting antennae in the red alga, Porphyridium cruentum.

It was found that the physical dissociation, i.e., the sequential
release, of the phycobiliprotein pigments corresponded directly
with the decreased activity of the aggregate in energy transfer. The
phycobilisome, in confirmation of the previously proposed model,
is structured for maximum light energy absorption and unidirec-
tional transfer of this energy to the chlorophyll, where it is utilized
for photosynthesis.

The pathway discovered is a transfer of energy from the shorter
wavelengths of sunlight toward the long wavelength absorption
maximum of chlorophyll a in the following sequence: phycoerythrin
to R-phycocyanin to allophycocyanin to chlorophyll a, which is
attached to the photosynthetic membranes of the algae.

The biosynthesis of the photosynthetic membranes of chloro-
plasts is also being studied, using a polyribosome-membrane com-
plex isolated from the green alga Chlamydomonas reinhardtii. A
principal component of biological membranes is protein. Proteins

Science / 133
are synthesized on ribosomes, some of which are tightly attached to
the photosynthetic membranes. These membrane-bound ribosomes
contain incomplete proteins, that is, proteins in the process of being
made. If synthesis of these incomplete proteins is artificially ter-
minated, for example, by inhibitors, the prematurely completed
protein chains remain with the membrane and not with the ribo-
somes as might be expected. This observation has led us to con-
clude that ribosomes attached to the photosynthetic membranes
make membrane proteins that become part of the membrane as the
proteins are made. This system probably is part of the process by
which the total amount of photosynthetic membrane is increased.
It may also apply to the formation of other biological membranes.

Another pigment system investigated this year is the carotenoids.
Carotenoids are found in all families of both plants and animals.
For example, they are responsible for the yellow-orange, and red
colors of carrots, tomatoes, leaves in autumn, starfish, flamingos and
other birds. We have been investigating the biosynthesis of carote-
noids in an orange bread mold, Neurospora crassa. This organism
has the interesting property of requiring blue light to initiate syn-
thesis. At least eight different carotenoids are produced after the
light treatment.

Considering the temperature requirements and the effects of
various inhibitor compounds, we have proposed that an inducer
used to activate a gene is produced by the light reaction. The
genetic code contained in the activated gene is used to specify the
amino acid sequence of an enzyme required for carotenoid syn-
thesis. The hypothesis was proposed that this enzyme is absent in
dark-grown cultures. However, the interesting possibility remains
that a whole series of genes is activated by light, and, as a result,
more than one enzyme is produced.

Two approaches are being used to test this hypothetical model:
genetic and biochemical. The genetic study involves the use of
ultraviolet light to mutate wild type Neurospora. Using this muta-
gen, we have obtained four different types of strains. These are
albinos that do not make pigment even in the presence of light,
yellow-orange mutants that synthesize a different distribution of
pigments, mutants in which the sensitivity of carotenoid synthesis
to temperatures above 6C has been reduced, and mutants that can
make pigment in the dark. We are in the process of determining the

134 / Smithsonian Year 1975
location of these mutants on the seven chromosomes of Neuro-
spora.

From a biological standpoint, phytoene, a colorless compound
which accumulates in dark-grown Neurospora, is a likely precursor
of the carotenoid pigments. Since phytoene can be synthesized by
Neurospora in the dark, it is predicted that light induces the syn-
thesis of enzymes for the conversion of phytoene to the carote-
noids. Furthermore, one might predict that the level of enzymes
involved in phytoene synthesis itself would be unaffected by a light
treatment. However, preliminary results using radioactive pre-
cursors of phytoene indicate that a blue light exposure of two
minutes does induce in vivo the de novo synthesis of one or more
of the enzymes involved in phytoene synthesis. Thus, blue light
may affect both the synthesis of phytoene, as well as the synthesis
of carotenoids from phytoene.

The single-celled fungus, Phycomyces blakesleeanus, demon-
strates a phenomenon known as light-dark adaptation. That is, it
has the ability to change its sensitivity to light stimuli, depending
upon the previous history of light exposure it has received. The
nature of the pigment receiving the light stimuli in the cells is as
yet unknown. However, by measuring the bending responses of
these cells to unilateral light stimuli of varying irradiance (in-
tensity), it is possible to measure the time constants of the dark-
adaptation rate after very high intensity blue light exposures
(> imWw-cm~*).

Experimentally, it is found that the cell can adapt to a new,
lower intensity at the rate of a factor 2 in intensity about each four
minutes, in agreement with previous data from light-growth re-
sponse measurements. Surprisingly, it has also been found that in
the range of intensities so large that no responses can be observed
physiologically, such as bending or light-growth responses, the
adaptation mechanism still functions. This was demonstrated by
adapting the cell to intensities many fold higher than it can respond
to and then measuring the time it takes for the cell to become
sensitive to a standard lower intensity in the responsive range.
Even for intensities not effective in producing responses, the cell
has a method for evaluating the intensity. We conclude that these
data indicate that a photobleaching of the pigment itself is oc-
curring, which is used by the cell for intensity measurement, and

Science / 135
that the sensitivity changes of the cell in light-dark adaptation are
not simply due to limitations in the capacity of responding systems.

ENVIRONMENTAL BIOLOGY

From a photosynthetic standpoint salt marshes are thought to be
among the world’s most productive plant communities. It is also
thought that this productivity (excess carbon matter after neces-
sary growth and maintenance) is exported from the marsh to be
utilized by consumers living in the estuary subtended by the marsh.
One of our objectives has been to understand the capacity of the
marsh to utilize light. We have studied carbon dioxide assimilation
in the light and dark in sections of salt marsh communities that
were enclosed in a plexiglass chamber of approximately one cubic
meter. A system for monitoring the in situ rate of CO» exchange
which utilizes an infra-red gas analysis system has been constructed
in the marsh. During the night, metabolism of organisms in the
community evolves CO:, but when there is sufficient light, the
green plants and algae on the surface of the marsh assimilate CO2
at a rate that exceeds CO: evolution and is dependent on light
intensity. Figure 1 shows results of measurements of net COsz ex-
change in the light over a two-hour period in a community that
includes approximately 60 percent of one species, a sedge Scripus
olneyi, and approximately 40 percent of a mixture of the two
grasses Spartina patens and Distichlis spicata.

Analysis of many such records (Fig. 2) has shown that the com-
munity light saturation for net CO. exchange occurs near four
moles of quanta m-* h~! (about 5/7 of full sunlight intensity),
suggesting that the community is adapted to utilize rather high
light intensity. Efficiency of the light utilization (the ratio of energy
received to energy stored in carbon compounds) is about 60 percent
of that of agricultural crops, such as corn and potatoes, and this
adds to the earlier evidence that salt marshes are highly productive
and, therefore, valuable natural resources.

Plants have also evolved special mechanisms to enable them to
survive harsh environments of temperature extremes. During the
past year, studies of the effects of chilling on the photosynthetic
apparatus of leaf cells were continued. It has been found that it is
possible to isolate from whole leaves cells which, by two criteria,
are able to carry on photosynthesis independently of the leaf struc-

136 / Smithsonian Year 1975
Community type: Sedge (Scirpus olneyi, Spartina patens , Distichlis spicata )

ic ral role 7 Mol ee a ea i
|

0.5

Photosynthesis
(gC m?hr')

__— Instrument Zeroing aN

3.0

Irradiance 400-700 nm
(moles quanta m~“hr7!)
Ss
re) fo)
eee [gee eee (ee | pla

0 = BS. ee oe ee Sie
1430 1500 1530 1600 1630

Hour

August 3, 1974

Irradiance of photosynthetically active radiation (400-700 nm) and photo-
synthetic uptake of CO: in a section of a sedge community contained within
a plexiglass chamber on the Rhode River, Maryland. The photosynthesis
record is interrupted periodically to establish an instrument baseline. The
instrument measuring irradiance responds in a few milliseconds but the sys-
tem for measuring net photosynthesis requires several minutes to respond.

1.0
9
Peace ben 05 | iS
o-~ fe.
32 ok
£EQ05 Sas
= =
Ey Li
3 & 4 Grass
2
Be /
ae

(Solar Maximum

O 2.0 4.0 6.0 7.0 10} 2.0 4.0 6.0 7.0

Irradiance (400-700 nm) (moles quanta m-2 hr-!)

The dependence of net photosynthesis in two salt marsh communities in the
Rhode River, Maryland, upon irradiance of photosynthetically active radiation
during August 1974. The maximum solar irradiance during this time of year
is 7.2 moles quanta m® hr’. The grass community is a mixture of Spartina
patens and Distichlis spicata, and the sedge community is approximately 40
percent of this grass mixture and 60 percent of the sedge Scirpus olneyi.

Science / 137
ture. They evolve oxygen and assimilate CO: in the light in the
absence of artificial electron donors or acceptors. The conditions for
obtaining such a preparation of cells are that a high molecular
weight compound, polyvinylpyrolidone (40,000), be included in the
initial medium in which the leaves are bathed during the brief (35
sec) grinding, and that the pH be controlled by a buffer (at
7.0 = 0.2 pH units). Whole and broken cells are separated by mild
centrifugation. Using this method to obtain active cells from whole
leaves that have been exposed to a succession of cool (5°C) nights,
we were able to show that the reduction in oxygen evolution occurs
at the same time and to the same extent as does the loss in capacity
for carbon dioxide assimilation in whole leaves. Rates of oxygen
evolution with this cell system are of the order of 25 percent of
those for carbon dioxide assimilation in whole leaves. It has been
suggested by some workers that the plant hormone abscisic acid
(ABA), which is known to effect photosynthetic CO: assimilation
by closing the stomata of leaves, may also have a direct effect on
the photosynthetic apparatus within the leaf. However, we could
find no immediate effect of abscisic acid on oxygen evolution in
whole green cells separated from the leaf by our methods.

As part of the studies investigating the flow of energy in the Bay
area, the relationship is being investigated between land use prac-
tices on lands in Maryland adjacent to the Chesapeake Bay and the
composition of the runoff waters flowing from these lands into the
estuary. The water discharge rates and volume-integrated concen-
trations of nutrients (nitrogen, phosphorus, and organic carbon)
were monitored for a year on five watersheds. The watersheds were
mapped in detail with respect to land use, and the nutrient data
were analyzed to give mean seasonal area yield loading rates for
each of five land use categories (cultivated cropland, pastureland,
forest, swamps and freshwater marshes, and residential). Rainfall
was also monitored for amount and nutrient composition. It was
found to contain high levels of both nitrate and organic nitrogen.
A quantitative analysis was computed of the sources of organic
matter, nitrogen, and phosphorus in the Rhode River, a subestuary
of Chesapeake Bay. Rainfall and the exchange of water masses
with Chesapeake Bay proper were found to be the principal sources
of nitrogen, while residential areas and cultivated cropland were
the largest sources of phosphorus. In the case of organic matter,

138 / Smithsonian Year 1975

less than one percent was derived from the watersheds and air-
shed, and the greatest source was primary production by phyto-
plankton in the estuary.

Studies were also conducted of phosphate uptake by bacteria
and phytoplankton in the Rhode River. Uptake was closely cor-
related with cell biomass, but bacterial uptake rates were between
10* and 10° times higher per biomass. Thus, although bacterial
biomass was usually much lower than phytoplankton biomass, bac-
teria usually accounted for over 90 percent of total planktonic
phosphorus uptake.

Phosphorus compounds which are biologically important are
polymers of phosphate commonly called polyphosphates. In the
laboratory these polyphosphates have been isolated from syn-
chronously dividing Chlorella cells. Two classes of polymer have
been characterized. The first, a, is formed in large amounts during
the cell expansion phase of the cell cycle and then decreases rapidly
in amount. The second, 8, increases when a decreases. Radioisotope
labeling studies have shown that a is labeled twice as fast initially,
but both become labeled with the same specific activity as the
medium within two cells’ cycles.

Neither class of polymer is homogeneous with respect to mo-
lecular weight, but a has a molecular weight range of 50,000—
125,000, while 8 has a range of 5000—25,000. A true polyphos-
phate is inert to alkaline hydrolysis, but both a and f give the same
size product upon alkaline hydrolysis, a smaller more homogeneous
polymer of about 5000 daltons. Both a and £ release about 80-85
percent of their phosphorus as orthophosphate upon mild acid
hydrolysis under conditions which give 100 percent orthophosphate
from true polyphosphates. The molecular structures of a and 8, as
well as their degradation products, are unknown but are currently
under investigation.

SOLAR ENERGY

One of the pigments which controls a wide range of diverse bio-
logical responses from flowering to seed germination is phyto-
chrome. Phytochrome is a photochromic pigment which can exist
in two major absorbing forms (wavelength maxima in the red or in
the far red regions of the spectrum). It is believed that many sea-
sonal phenomena in plants are regulated through this pigment. If

Science / 139
only the far red form is physiologically active, then plants having
this pigment would be sensitive to subtle changes in the naturally
occurring amounts of red and far red light from sunlight.

We know from laboratory experiments that changes in red and
far red do cause marked developmental responses when all other
conditions of the environment are maintained constant. Therefore,
measurements of sun and sky light have been made, and the ratio
of the amounts of red and far red light occurring naturally deter-
mined. The data from the monitoring stations for the years 1968 to
1973 have been published in tabular form showing the amount of
energy in each spectral region, as well as the percentage of the
total energy.

Ozone is a naturally occurring trace gas of the earth’s atmos-
pheric envelope. It is concentrated primarily in the stratosphere be-
tween fifteen and thirty-five kilometers altitude. Ozone is also
formed near the earth’s surface from man-made and _ naturally
occurring sources. Ozone concentration in the stratosphere varies
with latitude from about 2.4 mm at standard temperature and
pressure (stp) at the equator to about 4.5 mm at high latitudes.
There are also seasonal and geographical variations. This layer of
ozone is the principal absorber of ultraviolet radiation from the sun
for wavelengths of 320 nm down to about 225 nm and serves as a
shield for terrestrial organisms.

In view of the recent concerns about ozone and ultraviolet radia-
tion and the admitted uncertainties that now exist, the Radiation
Biology Laboratory has developed and recently installed at several
monitoring sites ultraviolet measuring instruments to measure
energy in narrow bands from 280 nm to 320 nm.

In the skin of mammals there are a number of pigments present.
One of these, as yet not clearly identified, is involved with the
reddening of skin (erythemal response) and is associated in some
way with the induction of skin cancer. Previously, the short wave-
length limit of ultraviolet light, reaching the earth, which produces
these responses was thought to be about 290 nm. During the past
year, we have detected energy below 290 nm at the surface of the
earth on a relatively consistent basis, using the rBt radiometer.

CARBON DATING

All living organisms are in equilibrium with atmospheric carbon
dioxide until death, when radioactive *Carbon begins to decay. By

140 / Smithsonian Year 1975
measuring present '*Carbon activity in dead biological specimens,
it is possible to determine the age, or time of death, of those orga-
nisms, and thus provide chronologies necessary for the researches
of archeologists, geologists, palynologists, etc. A small portion of
the research time of the Carbon Dating Laboratory is devoted to
basic research of the method itself, such as the development of
chemical pretreatments to extract the most representative and reli-
able fractions of sample materials. Major efforts, however, are
devoted to providing chronologies for the research staff of the
Smithsonian Institution, to the investigation of the relationships
between environmental change and cultural change, and to the
problem of the early occupations of the Americas.

In collaboration with the Smithsonian Institution staff, as well as
cooperative research with some twenty other institutions and uni-
versities, the laboratory has been engaged in such studies as late-
glacial and post-glacial sea-level rise along the Middle Atlantic
coast, cultural change in response to environmental change along
the New England and Labrador coasts, and the early occupations
of coastal Labrador some 8000 years ago.

Recent discovery of sea current reversal at the Strait of Gibraltar
about 10,000 years ago conjures up visions of drastic environmental
and cultural changes within the Mediterranean Basin, and studies
are continuing to determine the extent of such changes throughout
the basin. To the south, the dating of ancient lake levels at Alex-
andersfontein near Kimberley, South Africa, has led to the study
of climatic changes in that area and their possible correlation with
Middle and Late Stone Age occupations around the lake.

A cooperative sampling program by United States and Union of
Soviet Socialist Republics scientists has involved the laboratory in
a joint dating effort with Russian laboratories in the investigation
of late-glacial and post-glacial climates of east-central Siberia. A
joint U.S.S.R.-U.S. expedition provided the laboratory with samples
confirming a continuous occupation of the Aleutian chain beginning
some 8000 years ago, and the dating of materials from several sites
in southeastern Alaska indicates initial occupations there by 10,000
years ago.

The most striking project recently undertaken is the dating of
materials from the Meadowcroft Rockshelter in western Pennsy]l-
vania. Several samples from hearths in the lowest occupation levels
of the site indicate that man was already in northeastern North

Science / 141
America by 16,000 years ago. Since the most recent, and generally
accepted, entry to North America by way of the Bering land bridge
could have taken place only between 14,000 and 17,000 years ago
when land was exposed there, the '*Carbon dates from Meadow-
croft suggest that man’s entry must date to the prior land bridge,
some 25,000 to 30,000 years ago. Archeologists are now quickly
revising their estimates of man’s antiquity in the New World as a
result of this project.

Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory

Since 1973, the related research activities of the Smithsonian Astro-
physical Observatory (sao) and the Harvard College Observatory
(Hco) have been coordinated under a single director. This coopera-
tive venture, combining the facilities of both observatories in a
Center for Astrophysics at Cambridge, Massachusetts, has as its
primary goal “the conduct of excellent astrophysical research in a
variety of interdependent subfields.”

Recognizing the limitation to the amount of resources currently
available as well as to the potential growth in these resources, a
plan has been drawn up, covering the next five years, for utilizing
the available resources effectively in attaining scientific goals and
objectives. In brief, this plan calls for specific steps to strengthen
the research in each division, by provision of new staff and re-
sources, as Well as by phasing out programs which are of less scien-
tific interest or could not contribute directly to the overall goal.
They also call for greater effectiveness in the administrative opera-
tion of the observatories.

During 1974, major new research appointments were made in
high-energy astrophysics, theoretical astrophysics, planetary sci-
ences, and solar physics. New programs were started in x-ray
astronomy. A major objective for the next few years is the pro-
vision of institutional funds to undergird these new programs and
other ongoing programs deemed to be excellent.

Certain scientific programs have been instituted at the Center,
including a Visiting Scientist program and a Center Postdoctoral
Fellowship program. Under the latter program, six fellows were

142 / Smithsonian Year 1975
Three views of the solar surface as seen in different wavelengths by the Extreme
Ultraviolet Spectroheliometer on the Apollo Telescope Mount aboard the Skylab. A
team of Harvard and Smithsonian scientists are now analyzing data from this experi-
ment to understand the physical processes at work in the solar body. Photo: Harvard
College Observatory.

The Skylab 3 Satellite photographed from the command module prior to docking.
Harvard experiments aboard the Apollo Telescope Mount (located just above the main
docking port) have provided data for research on solar processes now underway by
Harvard and Smithsonian scientists at the Center for Astrophysics. Photo: National
Aeronautics and Space Administration.

appointed in July 1974 for a two-year period, to pursue research
of their choosing. It is expected that four more fellows will be
appointed in July 1975, with interests in radio astronomy, solar
physics, and theoretical astrophysics.

More detailed discussion of the current research objectives of
each of the Center’s eight divisions follows.

ATOMIC AND MOLECULAR PHYSICS

This division embraces the spectroscopy laboratory at Hco and the
theoretical atomic physics group, largely at sao. Experimental work
includes the measurement of photoionization cross sections and
oscillator strengths for species of astrophysical interest. Theoretical
work covers the calculation of atomic and molecular structure and
the associated cross sections for interaction with radiation, using
such techniques as model-potential methods. The resulting data are
being used in studies of processes in the upper atmosphere and in
interstellar clouds.

Future directions include the development of an ion-beam ap-
paratus to measure the interaction of multiply-charged ions with
electrons and radiation; currently supported by sao.

GEOASTRONOMY

This division utilizes a worldwide network of tracking stations to
observe precise positions of artificial satellites (using optical tele-
scopes and laser ranging) and employs the resulting data to extract
information about the earth’s shape and gravitational field. Previous
results have been summarized in a publication called “The Smith-
sonian Standard Earth.”

The French Startette satellite, placed in orbit in March 1975,
and the Geos-c satellite, launched in April 1975, are being tracked
now; it is planned to analyze radar altimeter data from the latter
satellite to determine the ocean geoid. Laceos, a satellite conceived
by the group, is expected to be launched in February 1976. Using
laser ranging to its corner reflectors, it is hoped that 2-cm range
accuracy can be achieved. The resulting data will be used, as part
of nasa’s Earth and Ocean Physics Application Program (EOPAP),
to deduce basic information about the earth, including the direct
measurement of continental drift. Emphasis will be placed on
dynamics of the earth, including plate tectonics and the response to
loading by tides and glaciation.

144 / Smithsonian Year 1975

STARLETTE, a satellite designed specifically for research in geodesy and geo-
dynamics and launched in February 1975, is currently being tracked by the
worldwide laser and camera network operated by the Smithsonian Astro-
physical Observatory. STARLETTE is a solid sphere with an extremely low
area-to-mass ratio which minimizes all non-gravitational effects on its orbit.
Extremely precise ranging from ground stations is facilitated by the complex
laser array on the satellite. The resultant orbital data should allow study of
long-period perturbations of gravitational origin as well as provide precise
positional determination of the ground stations for tectonic purposes. Photo:
CNES/GRGS, France.

Another project in this division is to fly an extremely precise
hydrogen maser clock in a high-altitude rocket probe to check
Einstein’s prediction that such a clock will “tick” faster than an
identical clock on the earth. This prediction, fundamental to the
theory of relativity, has so far been verified at the 1 percent level;
this experiment should be one hundred times more accurate.

Finally, the division is conducting an experiment aboard the joint
usa-ussr Apollo-Soyuz Test Project scheduled for launch in July
1975. One of the very few experiments selected for this flight, it
will permit accurate determination of gravitational anomalies by
extremely precise monitoring of the distances between the United
States and Soviet spacecraft.

Science / 145
Future directions include a long-term commitment to the EOPAP
program, and further work aimed at increasing the stability of
hydrogen maser clocks beyond the current 10~*° level with a num-
ber of possible applications in astronomy.

The twenty-year Moonwatch program involving an international
network of volunteer visual satellite observers was disbanded at the
end of June 1975. Since the first observations of Sputnik I in 1957,
the network has made approximately 400,000 observations of
artificial satellites in support of the federal space program.

HIGH-ENERGY ASTROPHYSICS

In 1967, sao started a small group working with a novel Cerenkov
detector at Mt. Hopkins Observatory to detect gamma rays of
1011-10!” eV from celestial sources. This project succeeded in de-
tecting gamma rays from the Crab pulsar, placing severe constraints
on theoretical models. More recently, the group has used equip-
ment in Australia to demonstrate that the Centaurus-A radio source
(NGc 5128) also emits high-energy gamma rays.

In 1973, a major new program of x-ray astronomy, using rocket-
and satellite-borne detectors, was added at sao. This group is
analyzing the data acquired by the uHuRU x-ray instrument. Many
stellar x-ray sources have been discovered, which appear to be
associated with collapsed stars orbiting normal stellar companions.
Black holes are predicted by Einstein’s theory of relativity, but they
had never been observed before.

Extragalactic sources were also found, including many clusters
of galaxies. The source of x-rays in clusters appears to be extremely
hot gas, whose origin and heating may be connected with basic
processes in cosmology.

Current projects include rocket flights and participation in ex-
periments aboard the Astronomical Netherlands Satellite, launched
in August 1974. Observations of increased x-ray activity in the
object Cygnus X-1 between May 1 and May 5 by the Smithsonian
experiment aboard that satellite sparked a series of ground-based
searches leading to the detection of increased radio emissions by
astronomers at the National Radio Astronomy Observatory (NRAO).
The corresponding activity in two wavelengths confirms observa-
tions of dual intensity changes from Cygnus X-1 first seen four
years earlier, thus supporting the contention that the object is a

146 / Smithsonian Year 1975

black hole and suggesting physical mechanisms unique to such
stellar systems.

Investigators at the Center are also involved in the experiments
aboard Sas-c an x-ray observatory launched in May 1975. A
laboratory facility for the design and calibration of x-ray detectors
and telescopes is being built at the Center.

Future plans heavily emphasize participation in a program of
High-Energy Astronomy Observatories (HEAO), with major effort
going into the design of a large x-ray telescope on HEAO-B, which
will have a resolution better than two arcseconds. This experiment
will be launched in 1978. Instruments to be placed at the focus of
this telescope are being designed by various groups around the
country, including the one at the Center.

OPTICAL AND INFRARED ASTRONOMY

In addition to using Harvard’s 61-inch reflector at Agassiz Station
and Smithsonian’s 60-inch reflector at Mt. Hopkins, observational
astronomers in this group enjoy guest privileges at a number of
observatories in the United States and abroad. They also use a
40-inch balloon-borne telescope developed jointly by Hco, sao, and
the University of Arizona for observations in the far infrared. This
division utilizing numerous facilities has made observations of
comets and asteroids, planets, stars, x-ray sources, nebulae, inter-
stellar clouds, pulsars, quasars, and galaxies. Some recent high-
lights include the study of halos of spiral galaxies at one-micron
wavelength, discovery of high winds in the atmosphere of Venus,
high-resolution mapping of the Orion nebula in the far infrared, a
demonstration that the brightest x-ray source in the sky (Sco X-1)
exhibits regular light variations with a period of approximately
nineteen hours, and the discovery that for a brief period the quasar
3C 279 exceeded the luminosity of 100 trillion suns.

The future activities of this division are heavily oriented toward
the completion of the Multiple-Mirror Telescope, which is being
constructed jointly by sao and the University of Arizona on Mt.
Hopkins. A telescope of novel design based on altitude-azimuth
mounting of six lightweight 72-inch mirrors, the mot will have an
equivalent aperture of 175 inches, and an optical resolution better
than 0.7 arcsecond; it will be optimized for operation in the infra-
red. The mnt is scheduled to draw first light in 1976; some of the

Science / 147
major components are already complete and await assembly, while
others are in various stages of construction. However, full-scale
operation will not take place until 1977. A high priority for this
project is its successful observation of faint optical and infrared
objects, especially extragalactic ones.

PLANETARY SCIENCES

In this division observations of the smaller bodies in the solar
system—comets, meteors, asteroids, and satellites—are empha-
sized, as are studies of meteoritic and lunar material. Theoretical
work centers on the origin of the solar system and of various bodies
within it. Recent studies include a campaign to study stellar occulta-
tions by Eros, which led to new estimates of the size and shape of

that asteroid. Mutual occultations of the satellites of Jupiter are

leading to better estimates of their sizes. Theoretical work indi-
cates that the obliquity of the earth may increase dramatically in
the future, and that the presence of resonance gaps in Saturn’s rings
implies that the particles making up the rings must be of the order
of ten meters across.

Several research programs involving lunar and meteorite samples
are continuing, including mineralogical and petrological studies on
a complex brecchia boulder from the Apollo 17 site and on particles
from the Allende carbonaceous chondrite, as well as isotopic in-
vestigation of lunar material. In a related program, inexpensive
detectors to determine the neutrino fluxes from various cosmic
sources have been developed. The Prairie Network, a ten-year
project to photograph fireballs, is being discontinued.

Future directions will probably emphasize further the origin of
the solar system, including cosmochemistry and theoretical analysis.

In spring 1975, a new asteroid discovered by two members of
this division using the telescope at Agassiz Station was named
“Whipple” in honor of the former director of sao, Dr. Fred L.
Whipple.

RADIO ASTRONOMY

This group is comprised of both uco and sao scientists. The Cen-
ter’s efforts include the Harvard Radio Astronomy Station at Ft.
Davis, Texas, where studies of extragalactic radio sources and of
solar radio bursts are made. Center scientists are also heavily

148 / Smithsonian Year 1975
Several hundred Southern Arizona astronomy buffs take advantage of the
annual Mount Hopkins Observatory Open Days each year to visit the varied
facilities at the 7600-foot level of the mountain site, including the large
10-meter gamma-ray detector shown above. Photo: Smithsonian Astrophysical
Observatory.

involved in studies of the interstellar medium and maser sources at
microwave and millimeter wavelengths. Observational facilities at
Agassiz, Haystack, nrao, and the Texas Millimeter Wave Observa-
tory are used in this work.

Recent studies include the detection of ethanol (grain alcohol) in
interstellar clouds and CH in Comet Kohoutek. Isotopic abundances
were studied in the Orion nebula, and heavy ions were identified
in the recombination-line spectrum of H I clouds. Evidence has been
presented both from visi and single-dish measurements that milli-
gauss magnetic fields exist in Orion. If confirmed, this would imply
energy densities a million times greater than in the typical inter-
stellar medium, suggesting interesting new effects.

A new program has been initiated in response to the recent find-
ing that chlorinated hydrocarbons released into the atmosphere
may, via a series of photochemical reactions, attack the ozone in
the earth’s upper atmosphere, with potential dire consequences for
living things. Experiments in Texas have demonstrated the feasi-
bility of detecting some of the key molecules in the stratosphere
by their millimeter lines.

Science / 149
The 84-foot dish used at Agassiz Station, Massachusetts, in the joint
Harvard-Smithsonian program of radio astronomy. Photo: Harvard
College Observatory.

The Fort Davis (Texas) Radio Astronomy Station, with 28-foot and
85-foot antennas, operated by the Harvard College Observatory as
part of the joint Harvard-Smithsonian program of research in radio
astronomy. Photo: Harvard College Observatory.

Emphasis in future research will be placed on short millimeter
and submillimeter wavelengths, where good work can be done at
a more moderate cost. This spectral range is rich in molecular fea-
tures of prime interest to various groups at the Center.

SOLAR AND STELLAR PHYSICS

This division comprises the uco Solar Satellite Project, an Hco
solar x-ray group, and a variety of studies, many of them theo-
retical, at sao. The Solar Satellite Project is deeply involved in the
analysis of the large amounts of solar ultraviolet data gathered on
Skylab. All the evidence points to strong magnetic control of the
chromosphere and corona, evidenced by prominent arch structures
and bright points. Recent work has developed evidence for wave
propagation from lower to upper layers; if expectations are fulfilled,
the long-sought heating mechanism for the corona will be found.

Starting in 1974, the ultraviolet data at the Center have been
complemented by x-ray observations from the same spacecraft
obtained by a group that joined uco last year. Among the more
striking findings is confirmation of the fact that ‘coronal holes,”
regions where the coronal density and temperature are low, appear
to be the source of streams of solar wind. Further work concerns
the high densities and temperatures along magnetic coronal arches.
This work will lead to a better understanding of the solar corona,
and how the solar wind originates in it.

Theoretical work among the sao members of the division con-
tinues on a variety of problems involving non-.tTE radiative transfer.
This work is being applied to models of the chromosphere and
corona and, in particular, to the analysis of the region of the tem-
perature minimum.

Stellar research is being carried out using orbiting ultraviolet
telescopes such as the Princeton instrument aboard Copernicus.
A recent finding is that Capella, a nearby star of solar type, may
have a stellar wind. By applying the analytical tools developed for
the sun, we hope to infer the properties of this wind. In the future,
the division expects to participate in the International Ultraviolet
Explorer and Large Space Telescope missions of NASA.

Finally, there is increasing interest in solar-terrestrial relations,
based on recent studies that seem to show correlation between
indices of solar activity and meteorological changes. Because of the

Science / 151
Center’s involvement with research on the sun and the upper at-
mosphere, it may be possible to make significant contributions to
this controversial but exciting field.

THEORETICAL ASTROPHYSICS

Members of this division are engaged in a wide variety of theo-
retical studies, ranging from stellar atmospheres to cosmology. Re-
cent work has included studies of the equilibrium and stability of
galaxies and clusters of galaxies, novel methods of integration of
the equation of transfer, molecular processes in interstellar clouds,
weak interactions in supernova explosions, the heating of the inter-
galactic medium, the physics of neutron stars and pulsating white
dwarfs, deuterium production in supernovae, and tidal effects in
binary systems.

Smithsonian Science Information Exchange, Inc.

The Exchange has experienced a considerable expansion of its
activities during the year, both with regard to an expansion of the
services provided and in terms of internal improvements designed
to enhance the value of its services to users and to incorporate the
latest technological improvements which distinguish the Exchange
as a major scientific and technological information center.

The Exchange undertook a series of projects for various Federal
Agencies which were directed toward meeting national needs in
major areas of research interest. Among these were the designation
of ssre as the Current Cancer Research Project Analysis Center
(ccrespac) by the National Cancer Institute as a part of its Inter-
national Cancer Research Data Bank (1crps) Program. In its role
as such a center, the Exchange will be involved in the collection,
storage, and retrieval of comprehensive information about current
research projects in cancer and cancer-related fields from both
national and international sources; transfer of this information to
the National Cancer Institute for use through CANCERLINE (an on-
line computerized file searchable through the MEDLINE network)
which will make this information available to thousands of users
engaged in research or the management of cancer projects and

152 / Smithsonian Year 1975
programs. In addition, the Exchange will be developing new vocabu-
lary tools for the indexing and retrieval of such information and
will prepare a number of catalogues for publication by the National
Cancer Institute intended for dissemination on a worldwide basis.
The ss1e will also be providing direct search services to investigators
in the cancer field who do not have access to remote terminals.
This activity is expected to continue and expand over the next
several years and could serve as a prototype for future international
centers of ongoing research information in selected areas.

In the field of energy research the Exchange has engaged in a
major effort to expand its data base in this field. New input has
been obtained from state governments as well as industry. At the
international level the Exchange has negotiated arrangements with
five European countries and Canada to obtain information in whole
or in part on their ongoing energy research projects for input into
the system. A directory of international research in energy will be
produced during 1975 under a grant from the National Science
Foundation, at the request of the Intergovernmental Committee on
International Cooperation in Energy Research and Development.
The information collected is expected to be helpful in the review
and planning of new international efforts in this area.

With support from the National Science Foundation and in an
effort to expand United States knowledge of other ongoing research
information systems worldwide, and to facilitate the exchange of
information, sste has taken a series of steps designed to identify
and subsequently expand its coverage in selected areas of major
national interest. As an important part of this effort the uNISIST
Program of uNnEsco in conjunction with ssre has organized a three-
day International Symposium on Information Systems and Services
in Ongoing Research in Science to be held in Paris in October 1975.
Dr. Hersey has been designated as symposium chairman and head
of the program committee, which has outlined the purpose of the
symposium as threefold:

1. To expand international understanding of the need and uses
for information about research in progress,

2. To stimulate the development of improved data collection and
dissemination,

3. To encourage worldwide exchange among national and inter-
national systems working in this field.

Science / 153
Speakers from all over the world will be representing their organi-
zations and countries. More than forty papers will be presented in
addition to two panel sessions involving discussions on problems
of operating such systems and meeting user needs.

In addition to the International Symposium, the Exchange has
begun discussions with a number of countries which now have, or
are in the process of developing, information systems of ongoing
research, with the possibility of developing bilateral agreements for
the exchange of information in selected areas. These discussions
involve problems of compatibility, language, indexing techniques,
and the economics of exchange methods. It is particularly note-
worthy that an increasing number of countries are developing data
bases comparable to ss at the national level. The Exchange, which
had its inception some twenty-five years ago, is providing other
countries with information about its experience gained over that
period of time regarding the problems and pitfalls which can be
encountered in the operation of such a system. It is expected that
the Exchange’s discussions in this area will result in making infor-
mation about ongoing research more widely available not only to
United States users but throughout the world in consonance with
the Smithsonian’s raison d’etre, “the increase and diffusion of
knowledge among men.”

Among other activities designed to increase the availability of
information to the research community, the Exchange completed
an agreement with the System Development Corporation of Cali-
fornia to make its data base available for remote interrogation
throughout the country for on-line searching. The new spc/ssIE
service is designed to give quick, easy, and economical access from
remote computer terminals to a file of over 125,000 summaries of
ongoing research projects in the life and physical sciences.

spc’s retrieval program, called orbit, permits subscribers to con-
duct extremely rapid searches through two-way communication
terminals located in their own facilities. Searchers may specify their
search information inquiry by subject terms, names of researchers,
performing organizations, or a number of other access points, or
by any combination of these.

After examining the preliminary results of inquiries, searchers
will be able to refine their questions further to make them broader
or narrower in scope. This interaction between searcher and com-
puter is conducted in simple, English-language statements.

154 / Smithsonian Year 1975
The spc system is tied into a nationwide communications net-
work, so that most subscribers can link their terminals to the com-
puter through the equivalent of a local telephone call. The spc
Search Service is the world’s largest with over five million items
(mostly bibliographic) on file for daily use. Users of other spc
services are expected to find access to ssIE an important adjunct to
their regular bibliographic searches of such data bases reinforcing
the importance of ongoing research information as well as biblio-
graphic information in the overall research management process.

In other major research program activities, the Exchange has com-
pleted a number of directories of ongoing research for several
federal agencies designed to support research management in such
areas as water resources, pesticides, and disaster-related technology.
This latter project is particularly noteworthy since it combined
information about both ongoing research and abstracts of published
technical reports. The Exchange has also developed in conjunction
with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration the first
federal semimonthly publication containing both ongoing research
and bibliographic information. The inclusion of ongoing research
in this publication has been well received and is expected to be
continued for another year.

The Exchange has continued to develop new techniques in data
processing in order to achieve optimum utilization of its staff and
equipment. Several of these, such as machine-aided indexing, have
already been published and may prove useful to information sys-
tems on an international level. The sste also produced during the
current year several output products in computer output microfiche
which may open a whole new approach to improving the use of
the Exchange’s information. It remains to be seen what kind of
user acceptance this type of output receives from the science com-
munity. Improved internal operational methods have allowed the
Exchange to accomplish its largest input ever, over 130,000 research
projects in fiscal year 1975, with only minimal increases in staff.
Improved computer programming changes have not only reduced
processing costs but increased the speed with which information is
now processed through the system. Overall demand for the Ex-
change’s services continues to rise as greater realization of the use-
fulness of ongoing research information in the research process
becomes evident to both governmental and nongovernmental
organizations.

Science / 155
In summary, the Exchange has taken a major leadership role in
the awareness of ongoing research information, not only in terms
of developing and testing a variety of new modes to enhance use
of the data collected but in the international area of scientific
research in selected special areas. The identification of and ex-
changes of information which are expected to come from these in-
ternational activities are expected to benefit not only the United
States but the entire worldwide research community as well.

Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute

Research at the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute (sTRI) is a
multi-faceted compound of the individual efforts of the scientific
staff, research fellows, and associates. A deliberate policy of bring-
ing together a community of permanent staff, who are intrigued
and fascinated by the complexity of tropical biotas, has achieved
a unity of purpose in seeking to explain this intricacy at all levels
of biological organization. They have found the interactions of a
variety of disciplines to be a powerful aid to studies of the eco-
logical and evolutionary adaptations of tropical organisms. In a
field as relatively unexplored as tropical biology, the work of
analysis and synthesis can go on more or less simultaneously; this
is certainly the case with the str1 research. This simultaneous
approach is illustrated by a sampling of our studies, here reported
in brief outline.

The complexity of systems of sexual reproduction and sexual
behavior are fundamentally important to organic evolution. Among
vertebrates the greatest diversity of patterns of sexual reproduction
occurs in the fishes, where several types of hermaphroditism have
evolved. Two groups of marine fishes, common on the Caribbean
coasts of Panama,are protogynous hermaphrodites (i.e., individuals
are first functional females and then become functional males).
These fishes, the wrasses and parrotfishes, have been intensively
studied by a multidisciplinary group of str scientists and fellows.
D. R. Robertson, R. W. Warner, D. Diener, and S. Hoffman have
conducted extensive field and laboratory research into the behavior,
ecology, and physiology of these fishes and E. Leigh has worked

156 / Smithsonian Year 1975

with them to develop mathematical models of the evolution of
protogyny and protandry. Models of protogyny have been tested
by studying the mating system of one species in great detail. Alto-
gether eighteen species of protogynus hermaphrodites have been
the subject of str1 comparative studies. These studies have revealed
that there is a great deal of variability in the population structures
of the hermaphrodites; in sex ratios, sexual color-phase ratios, and
in the proportions of hermaphroditic and nonhermaphroditic indi-
viduals present. Alongside studies of the ecology and behavior of
free-living fishes, studies have been made of the role of hormones
in the process of sex change and also of their role in the equally
interesting process of color-phase change. These investigations
show that there is much variation between species in the effects of
hormones on these two processes and that, in fact, the two processes
are often independent.

These studies of hermaphroditism have already yielded an ac-
cumulation of basic information on the many aspects of the phe-
nomenon that were previously unknown and at the same time they
have led to syntheses of comparative data that permit evolutionary
generalizations. Off the coasts of Panama another kind of her-
maphroditism is found in the relatively abundant groupers. These
fishes are synchronously hermaphroditic, individuals may be male
and female at the same time. Work is already in progress on the
possible adaptive value of this type of system and E. Fischer will
shortly begin a year’s pre-doctoral study.

A really basic question about tropical ecology is being asked,
and studied, by H. Wolda. He is concerned about fluctuations in
the abundance of insects in tropical forests. Many scientists have
argued that since tropical forests are extremely complex they should
be ecologically much more stable than forests of temperate regions,
and insect populations should, accordingly, fluctuate less than in
the temperate zone. Wolda’s work suggests strongly that this is not
true. His data are derived from studies of two separate groups of
insects, lepidopterans and homopterans. In the first case, Wolda
studied the caterpillars feeding on a tropical violaceous plant and
others feeding on figs. Over a period of four years the populations
of caterpillars in the Barro Colorado forest showed very consider-
able fluctuations. One species reached outbreak densities—plague
proportions—during two of the study years. Data from homopteran

Science / 157
catches at light traps shows that the lepidopterans are not merely
exceptional cases that prove the general rule of constancy and sta-
bility. Wolda has taken data from light traps operated at the same
sites on Barro Colorado for several years and calculated ratios that
highlight changes in abundance from year to year. Data from 110
species have presently been converted to ratios of annual variability.
These can be compared with data on temperate insects that are
already available in the ecological literature. The results of this
comparison are very striking indeed. The variability in the insects
in tropical forest is of the same order of magnitude as that for the
various groups of insects from the temperate zone. Further studies
of other groups on tropical insects are in progress. In these studies
Wolda is collaborating with specialists in the groups concerned. He
recently communicated his findings at the symposium on Tropical
Ecology held at Lubumbashi, Zaire.

Work on adaptive aspects of plant morphology is a comparatively
recent focus of tropical biology. At str1, Alan P. Smith is actively
pursuing researches into several problems where preliminary studies
of morphological patterns lead directly into quantitative studies of
life history and physiological adaptations. Smith is studying adap-
tive aspects of leaf form in tropical lowland forests, the support
systems of tropical trees and has embarked on a long-term study
of the life form and life history of tropical alpine plants belonging
to the genus Espeletia. Three aspects of leaf form are being studied:
the elongation of leaf tips into characteristic “drip tips’’—long
believed to be correlated with the heavy rainfall occurring in tropi-
cal forest, lateral asymmetry in leaf shape, and variegation in leaf
color. In the latter case, Smith is testing the hypothesis that varie-
gation may be a defense against the leaf-eating larvae of insects,
that it may function to deter insects from laying their eggs on the
leaf by simulating the effects of insect attack. Smith’s studies of
Espeletia species are being carried out in the Andes of Venezuela
and Colombia where the plants are a conspicuous feature of the
alpine regions. It is distinguished by a large-leaved rosette sup-
ported by a central unbranched or little-branched stem. Beneath
the rosette of hairy living leaves the plant accumulates dead leaves
as growth takes place. The dead leaves are retained around the stem
and persist for many years. This bizarre growth form has evolved
repeatedly in tropical alpine areas but is absent in alpine areas to

158 / Smithsonian Year 1975

the north and the south. It is thus an ideal subject for studies aimed
at determining the selective forces that operate in tropical alpine
environments. Smith has initiated long-term studies of Espeletia
species, concentrating on growth form and demography. His studies
include species with unbranched stems and rosettes of leaves,
branched stems and rosettes of leaves, and forms that are simply
arborescent. Early results are revealing exciting correlations between
growth form, life history, and environmental constraints.

Most studies of animal communication have involved visual and
acoustic signaling systems. These are certainly the types of signals
most readily understood, and studied, by humans. Michael and
Barbara Robinson are studying the courtship and mating behavior
of web-building spiders where the signals involved are almost
entirely tactile or vibrational. In a broad comparative study they
have so far investigated over thirty species in detail. Their aim is
to understand the types of signals involved in the contact between
male and female, the functional significance of the signals used,
and to elucidate the evolutionary stages through which the court-
ship of spiders has passed. The Robinsons’ studies have already
shown that early generalizations about spider courtship, based on
data from temperate regions, were inaccurate and premature. As in

Espeletia timotensis (Compositae) at 4200 m in the Venezuelan Andes,
specialized plants under study by Alan Smith.

all tropical studies, the overwhelming impression from this investi-
gation is that of staggering complexity. The courtship behavior of
the male spider has two very important functions; he has to iden-
tify himself as nonfood and then stimulate the female into accept-
ance of his mating attempts. This twofold function of courtship
has led to some bizarre behavioral adaptations. In one case the male
spider leads the female out onto a line that is directly connected
with his silk-producing organs, and, as she rushes towards him he
pays out silk so that she never quite catches him. Eventually the
female abandons the futile pursuit and either accepts a mating or
goes back to her web. While in New Guinea the Robinsons cen-
sused all the trap-building spiders in 200 square meters of coffee
plantation. With the census data and the results of their previous
studies on the prey-consumption of tropical spiders they were able
to work out an estimate of the insecticidal effect of the spiders in
a hectare of coffee. They calculate that the spiders consume a mini-
mum of forty million insects per hectare annually. This suggests
that spiders have an important ecological role and may be of con-
siderable economic importance.

During the past year, Jeffrey Graham was a visiting investigator,
for two months, at the National Marine Fisheries Service Labora-
tory in La Jolla, California. There he collaborated with John L.
Roberts of the University of Massachusetts in a study of red and
white muscle temperatures and electromyograms of fast-swimming
scombrid fishes. Roberts and Graham perfected a technique for
surgically implanting thermocouples in fish swimming muscles to
enable them to measure muscle temperatures as the fish swam at
controlled speeds in a respirometer. In addition, while at La Jolla,
Graham completed his study of the types and distribution of retial
countercurrent heat exchangers in scombrid fishes. This study has
shown that for the seven known species of tuna (Thunnus) there
is a relationship between the level to which the body temperature
is raised and both the type of heat exchanger and the latitudinal
distribution of a species. Tropical and subtropical tunas and skip-
jacks have the most primitive arrangement of heat exchangers, they
have small central heat exchangers, and, in some cases poorly de-
fined lateral ones. On the other hand the three high latitude tuna
species have lost central heat exchangers, but have highly developed
lateral systems.

160 / Smithsonian Year 1975
Other work on fishes has been carried out by stri postdoctoral
fellow Donald Kramer. Kramer has studied the ecology and be-
havior of freshwater fishes in Panama, concentrating on detailed
studies of feeding behavior and feeding strategies. He has also
carried out cooperative studies with Graham on air-breathing fresh-
water fishes. Graham and Kramer have discovered a phenomenon
that they call “synchronous air-breathing.” Fishes that exhibit syn-
chronous air-breathing rise together in groups to break the water
surface and breathe in air. They break the surface either simul-
taneously or in rapid succession. Graham and Kramer believe that
synchronicity of air-breathing constitutes an antipredator adapta-
tion. Graham, Kramer, and E. Pineda (a graduate fellow from the
University of Panama) have recently discovered populations of the
characin Piabucina festae which is an air-breather and are studying
this species and the closely related Piabucina panamensis, which is
not an air-breather.

The str1 program on human adaptations to tropical areas began
this year with an exciting week-long seminar at Barro Colorado
Island, where a number of distinguished anthropologists and biolo-
gists were invited for informal discussions of new research and
recent methodology. Representing the Instituto Venezolano de
Investigaciones Cientificas were Dra. Erika Wagner, and Dra.
Alberta Zucchi, who is working on the ridgefield systems of the
Venezuelan Llanos. From Colombia came Drs. Gerardo and Alicia
Reichel-Dolmatoff, well known for their pioneering work on the
archeology of northern Colombia, and on the ethnology of various
Colombian Indian groups. Representing the biological disciplines
were Dr. C. Earle Smith of the University of Alabama, and Dr.
Alan Covich of Washington University, who together discussed
the dynamics of plant domestication and their interaction with
faunal communities in the tropics.

Besides holding discussions with the stri staff and graduate stu-
dents, as well as with Panamanian professionals, the visiting scien-
tists were taken on a tour of archeological sites in the central
provinces. On hand to discuss his own research on the transition
from hunting-gathering to agriculture on the Isthmus was Dr.
Anthony J. Ranere, a str1 associate, who led the group to show
them the Aguadulce preceramic rockshelter, where he is continuing
excavations this year. A second morning was spent visiting the

Science / 161
——; WPCUBMARINE ~~.

/PEEF HUNTER

Martin Moynihan and Arcadio Rodaniche entering a “wet’’ submarine used
in studying the behavior of pelagic squid.

Laborides dimidiatus fighting at the mutual border of their territories on the
Great Barrier reef of Australia, where they were studied by Ross Robertson.

site of Sitio Sierra, being excavated at the time by Dr. Richard
Cooke, a University of London archeologist and one of stri’s post-
doctoral fellows.

Sitio Sierra began as a small prehispanic maize-growing village
located on the shores of the Santa Maria river, Coclé province,
during the first centuries after the Christian era (circa A.D. 200).
Despite having to work one step ahead of bulldozers ready to level
off the mounded area in order to plant sugarcane, Dr. Cooke was
able to recover an impressive sample of the faunal and floral re-
sources exploited by the riverine group in the drier section of the
Isthmus during pre-Sitio Conte days. This was accomplished by
fine-screening, excavating housefloors, and concentrating on the
horizontal exposure of activity areas. Comparisons of the Sitio
Sierra materials with those excavated by Dra. Olga F. Linares of
sTRI, and members of her research team, is resulting in a volume
on the evolution of differential adaptations to the wet versus the
seasonal tropics of Panama.

STRI makes an important contribution to interbureau cooperative
science programs at the Smithsonian through its support of the Esp
(Environmental Sciences Program) Tropical Projects. These are
being conducted at stri facilities, with str logistic and technical
support, and involve several stri scientists. The appearance of the
465-page report Environmental Monitoring and Baseline Data—
1973—Tropical Studies in December 1974 marked a major step in
the development of the esp program in Panama.

The esp is a long-term study of natural fluctuations in several
contrasting environments on Smithsonian-controlled preserves. The
tropical projects are sited in the Canal Zone, on a coral reef at
Galeta Point, and in forest on Barro Colorado Island.

Even the proverbially stable tropics are not unchanging but are
in dynamic rather than static equilibria. They undergo considerable
and important fluctuations within each year and also from year to
year. To understand the magnitude and impact of these fluctuations
careful and repeated measurements must be made at different times
of the year and for a number of years. The most valuable results
of these studies will not come until a number of years have been
studied and the data analysed and compared. The data that have
already been collected and published are valuable both to investi-
gators working at the esp sites and to ecologists studying other
environments elsewhere in the world.

Science / 163
Dr. Richard Cooke and assistant excavating at Sitio Sierra,
Coclé Province, Panama.

The report for 1973 is intended as the first in a series of annuals
which will make available the results from a wide range of en-
vironmental measurements. These include solar radiation, me-
teorological, hydrological, botanical, and zoological variables. These
data, particularly those collected by the core, or baseline, monitor-
ing programs of N. Smythe on Barro Colorado Island, and D. Meyer
and C. Birkeland at Galeta,are presented in considerable detail for
1973 and also summarized in various ways to facilitate comparisons
with other years and places. Though the report concentrates on
measurements that will be repeated in successive years, it also in-
cludes other kinds of baseline data such as maps and species lists.

In this first report the editor, R. Rubinoff, put strong emphasis
on developing a format that would allow direct comparison between
the tropical marine and terrestrial environments under study, as
well as with the temperate Esp projects being conducted at cBCES.
A second in the series of annual reports, that for 1974, is currently
in preparation.

Investigators from the Smithsonian Institution involved in the
EsP Tropical Projects during fiscal year 1975 included: W. Klein,
RBL; T. Erwin, M. Hale, C. Handley, R. Heyer, R. Thornington, and

164 / Smithsonian Year 1975
G. Zug, all of mnu; G. Montgomery, NzpP; as well as C. Birkeland,
E. Leigh, D. Meyer, S. Rand, R. Rubinoff, N. Smythe, and H.
Wolda, stri. Several investigators from outside the Smithsonian
were partially supported by esp, particularly R. Foster, University
of Chicago, and J. Lawrence, Harvard University. A number of
students and visiting scientists at str1 have also made important
contributions to the projects.

During April, Drs. Glynn and Birkeland accompanied by Martin
Wells of Cornell University made an expedition to the Galapagos
Islands where a survey of the coral reefs was initiated in coopera-
tion with G. M. Wellington of the Charles Darwin Research Station.
Through the cooperation of the cprs and the Ecuadorian National
Park Service, about twenty species of corals were identified, at least
three of which are new to science, and a preliminary analysis of
the distribution and ecology of Galapagos corals was begun.

Based upon a visit to Papua, New Guinea, by Rubinoff and Rand,
the Smithsonian became a sponsoring member of the Wau Ecology
Institute. With support from the International Environmental Pro-
gram and the Fluid Research Fund, stri sent Dr. Tyson Roberts to
initiate an ecological investigation of the fishes of the Fly River
and Dr. Alan Smith to begin studies of tree ferns on Mt. Wilhelm
in Papua, New Guinea.

Our program of providing short-term fellowships to introduce
students to tropical research was continued with grants from the
Henry L. and Grace Doherty and the Edward John Noble founda-
tions. More than twenty-four students from the United States,
Panama, Colombia, Canada, and the Virgin Islands participated in
the program during fiscal year 1975.

Dr. D. R. Robertson, a fish behaviorist, has accepted an appoint-
ment as our newest staff member. He will continue his work on the
sexual behavior of fishes.

During 1975, major rebuilding was begun on the main laboratory
on Barro Colorado Island. When completed, the building will in-
clude a series of centrally air-conditioned individual laboratories,
a classroom, instrument room, and dark room. The first phase of
the Tivoli laboratory has been completed. The first wing includes
space for the herbarium which occupies what we hope will be its
final home. A contract has been awarded for the second phase of
the Tivoli renovation.

Science / 165
The opening on October 1, 1974, of the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden was a
major event of fiscal year 1975. The view above is from the Mall.
Smithsonian Year - 1974

HISTORY AND ART

CHARLES BLITZER, ASSISTANT SECRETARY

IN HIS RECENT VOLUME of reminiscences, charmingly and most ap-
propriately titled Self-Portrait with Donors, the former Director of
the National Gallery of Art laments a change he has observed in
the thinking of museum directors. “Until recently the directors of
European and American museums have had the same basic phi-
losophy,” John Walker writes. ‘Their primary interest has been
the acquisition of masterpieces.” Of late, he observes, this interest
has been subordinated to a concern for “relevance” and for rather
vaguely defined programs of “social service.” Mr. Walker leaves no
doubt where his sympathies lie: “I fervently hope my colleagues
will regain faith in their original mission, which once was to as-
semble and exhibit masterpieces.”

Despite the survival in the art museum world of a few individual
directors who compete flamboyantly for the title of Grand Acquis-
itor, Mr. Walker’s characterization is evidently correct for the
profession as a whole. In a survey conducted last year for the Na-
tional Endowment for the Arts, a national sample of museum
directors was asked to evaluate in order of importance ten specified
functions of museums. In the resulting list, “acquiring works or
specimens” was rated fifth by the respondents; art museum di-
rectors rated acquisition as fourth in importance, history museum
directors rated it as fifth, and art/history museum directors rated
it as fifth.1 Exhibitions, conservation, the education of children, and

1 Museums USA, published by the National Endowment for the Arts, 1974,
page 28.

167
service as a “scholarly and information resource” were all deemed
to be more important. The current attitudes of the public seem to
reflect a similar skepticism about the overwhelming importance
of acquisitions. Understandably, a would-be visitor who finds his
favorite museum closed due to financial difficulties is apt to be less
than enthusiastic when that same museum purchases a multimillion
dollar object or collection; and he is not very interested in talk of
restricted endowments and earmarked purchase funds.

Granting that Mr. Walker’s explicit emphasis on the acquisition
of “masterpieces” severely limits the generality of his message,
which is primarily addressed to the directors and trustees of great
and wealthy art museums, there does seem to be an element of
paradox in the results of the Arts Endowment survey. For the fact
is that each of the functions regarded as more important than the
acquisition of collections presupposes the existence of collections.
One is reminded of a similar paradox that at least used to exist in
colleges and universities: the marriage of a faculty member and
a student tended to be viewed with great pleasure in the com-
munity, but the courtship of a student by a faculty member was
generally thought to be improper if not positively indecent. Simi-
larly, it is assumed that museums have collections, but there is
some uneasiness about the notion that they should get collections.

In all fairness one must admit that attitudes in the museum world
are no less pendulum-like than those in other areas of human en-
deavor. The results of the Arts Endowment survey mirror a rather
recent shift of emphasis from the goal of acquiring objects to the
goal of preserving and using them. Mr. Walker himself applauds
the development of long-term loan programs, through which mu-
seums with vast collections in storage can help to fill the galleries
of less fortunate museums. The growing concern for conservation of
museum objects should undoubtedly lead to a welcome redis-
tribution of museum resources. Similarly, a persuasive case can
be made for the variety of activities designed both to widen and to
deepen the use of objects that museums already have in their col-
lections. The Smithsonian is proud of having participated in each of
these developments, and intends to continue to do so.

But perhaps the pendulum has swung a trifle too far? Perhaps we
should heed Mr. Walker’s advice and regain faith in our original
mission of acquiring? To do so, to maintain an active interest in

168 / Smithsonian Year 1975

acquisitions, would seem to be required as part of our obligation to
posterity, to the future generations who will then be able to use
what we have collected as we use what earlier generations
collected.

Various branches of the Smithsonian Institution illustrate in very
concrete terms some of the forms this obligation can assume. The
case of the National Zoological Park is admittedly unique, for here
the mortality of living animals absolutely requires constant re-
plenishment of the collections. But the case of a museum of con-
temporary art is not so very different; the necessity of keeping
abreast with interesting and important new artistic developments
is absolute if such a museum is to fulfill its role. Similarly, unless
we assume that the history of American art and the history of
technology are somehow going to come to a halt, museums devoted
to these subjects must continue to acquire objects of historical sig-
nificance in their fields. A national gallery of portraiture, repre-
senting men and women who contribute to the development of our
Nation, must assume that such men and women will continue to
appear on the scene, although their likenesses may increasingly be
photographs, films, and videotapes rather than paintings and
sculptures. Even in museums less obviously committed to keeping
up with new developments, the case for filling the gap in the record
of the past is powerful indeed. It is precisely because we are con-
cerned with the use of our collections that we feel so strongly the
need to make them more useful, which more often than not means
making them more complete. And this, of course, is what acquisi-
tion is.

The Smithsonian can also serve to illustrate, however, the fact
that acquiring does not necessarily mean purchasing. Again the case
of the National Zoo is unique, for its collections have the happy
ability to reproduce themselves—an ability that will presumably be
enhanced by the Zoo’s new breeding farm. In many other cases,
notably those covered by the rubric Natural History, objects are
typically acquired by scientific expeditions. But, in the arts, and to
a very large extent in the various fields of history, the usual options
are gifts (including bequests) and purchases. Throughout its his-
tory, the Smithsonian has relied overwhelmingly upon gifts in
forming the national collections, and it continues to do so. The fact
that virtually every imaginable sort of object is now avidly col-

History and Art / 169
lected by someone, and the fact that the prices of things that are
collected rise at a rate considerably in excess of the general rate
of inflation, have combined to make our reliance upon gifts and
bequests more important than ever. The day when the knowledge-
able and energetic curator could find objects of museum quality
in attics or rubbish heaps, or could purchase them for a pittance
because they were out of fashion, is surely gone and will not return.

The Smithsonian’s dependence upon gifts, and its very notable
success in attracting them, is surely not unrelated to its performance
in using what it has been given. In a sense, then, we are led to
another paradox, one which perhaps resolves the apparent conflict
between acquisition and use. Donors, who should not be assumed
to be any less intelligent and sensitive than other people, want to
know that what they give to museums will be cared for, will be ex-
hibited, and will be used by scholars and perhaps even school
children. Thus acquisitions may well be the result of other activities,
not an alternative to them. If the age of sheer acquisitiveness, of
acquisitiveness for its own sake is over, museum officials must not
react to its excesses by turning their attention away from a prudent
and measured program of acquisitions, acquisitions for use.

In the case of the Smithsonian, this will involve several things
apart from encouraging our Zoo animals to reproduce and our
natural historians to collect in the field. It will involve continuing
efforts to demonstrate that what we acquire is properly cared for
and imaginatively used. It will involve continuing requests for funds
to be used in the acquisition of objects that are urgently needed to
fill gaps in our collections, objects that complete the historical record
or make possible an important exhibition, which might never come
to us if we were to rely solely upon the uncertainties of gifts and
bequests. It means also that we will continue to hope for a change
in the tax laws that will once again encourage artists to donate their
own works to musuems. To the extent that these efforts are suc-
cessful and this hope is realized, future generations will be able
to build upon our achievements as we endeavor to build upon those
of our predecessors.

170 / Smithsonian Year 1975
Archives of American Art

That research in American art is a thriving activity is clearly re-
flected in the growing use of documentary resources at the Archives
of American Art. During the past year students and more advanced
scholars made 1750 visits to consult Archives holdings at the five
regional offices in Boston, New York, Washington, D.C., Detroit,
and San Francisco, an increase of more than 400 over the number
in 1974. Researchers in thirty-two states and three foreign coun-
tries borrowed 550 rolls of microfilm through interlibrary loans.

In serving the needs of art historians, the Archives continues
to seek out and assemble the records of artists, dealers, critics, and
art societies. Over 250 collections were accessioned this year,
some of them of major significance for investigations of American
art in the nineteenth and twentieth centuries. The papers of the
contemporary sculptor Joseph Cornell, the largest single group
received, include quantities of notes, correspondence, clippings,
and the objects and artifacts that comprised the elements of
Cornell’s work. Other especially useful collections were the papers
of the art historian William Seitz; of the painters Philip Evergood,
Abraham Rattner, and Moses Soyer; of the dealers Martin Birn-
baum and Betty Parsons; of the architect Albert Kahn; and of the
photographer Imogen Cunningham. Diaries kept by the painter
Robert Henri over a fifty-year period were lent for microfilming,
as were important groups of letters from Frederick Remington,
Charles Burchfield, Frank Duveneck, and Bernard Berenson.

“From Reliable Sources,” the first exhibition of letters, photo-
graphs, and other documents selected from Archives holdings,
commemorated the Archives’ twentieth anniversary. Installed in
an attractively designed room made available by the National
Portrait Gallery, the exhibition opened in November to enthus-
iastic acclaim from both press and public. An illustrated catalogue
published for the occasion includes transcripts of the documents
shown, together with introductory essays on the Archives and on
the significance of historical papers.

The Archives staff devoted much effort during the year to the
preparation of a comprehensive checklist of Archives holdings.
Over 3000 entries incorporate information on quantity, inclusive
dates, and forms of documentation. The checklist will be pub-

History and Art / 171
ee ee ee

q

| i
*\

2a

a?

*

s

*

* ig
3 ig

Robert Henri whose diaries, covering 1881-1928, were microfilmed by the
Archives of American Art.

lished for distribution to libraries and art history departments on a
national basis. The Archives continues to bring its resources to the
attention of the scholarly community through its quarterly Journal,
which carries articles based on Archives holdings and describes
recent acquisitions. In another move to inform students of useful
research material at the Archives, the Area Directors instituted a
series of talks at university art history departments in Massachu-
setts, Michigan, and California.

The Archives Oral History Project carried on its work of
recording reminiscences and thoughts of persons involved in
American art. Taped interviews with two elder statesmen of the
museum world, Bartlett Hayes and William Milliken, provide

172 / Smithsonian Year 1975
detailed information on their careers. Among artists interviewed
during the year were Andrew Dasburg, Jimmie Ernst, Robert
Motherwell, Isama Hoguchi, and Claes Oldenburg.

More than fifty books, articles, exhibition catalogues, disserta-
tions, and theses completed in 1975 acknowledged assistance from
the Archives. These included published monographs on Albert
Bierstadt, Ward Lockwood, and Everett Shinn, catalogues on Cecilia
Beaux and David Smith, articles on Raphael Peale and Benjamin
West, and dissertations on Alexander Calder and Max Weber.
Articles on the Archives appeared in the New York Times and
several art periodicals, including three published in California.

Cooper-Hewitt Museum
of Decorative Arts and Design

Renovation was begun in the summer of 1974 on the Andrew
Carnegie Mansion—future home of the Cooper-Hewitt Museum
of Decorative Arts and Design—at 91st Street and Fifth Avenue
in New York City. Work is scheduled for completion by October
1975 at which time the Museum will install its collections, library,
and exhibitions for a March 1976 opening. The opening exhibition
is being designed by architect Hans Hollein, with significant inter-
national participation. In conjunction with the main exhibition,
the Museum is organizing thirty satellite exhibitions in museums,
libraries, and universities in New York—lending collections which
are particularly suited to those institutions. The satellite exhibitions
will serve as an “homage” to the Cooper-Hewitt.

The Museum organized the first full-scale exhibition of Winslow
Homer drawings, water colors, and paintings to appear in Europe.
The exhibition opened at the Victoria and Albert in London in
November 1974 to great acclaim. Other exhibitions of Cooper-
Hewitt material during the year were ‘““Thomas Moran: Drawings
of the West,” “Frederic E. Church Oil Sketches and Drawings,”
“Italian Drawings and Master Printmakers,” and “Prints by
Whistler, Hassam, and Moran.” In addition, the Cooper-Hewitt
participated in exhibitions at twenty museums and galleries.

A first in a series of exhibitions outside the Museum’s walls took
place in June. The exhibition “Immovable Objects” invited visitors

History and Art / 173
to view objects in Lower Manhattan—buildings, plazas, piers,
parks, street furniture—either for their intrinsic architectural
quality or for their effect on the design of the city. A catalogue
was published which served as a guide to the objects and which
listed a series of events—parades, tours, special exhibitions—in
the area.

The Museum accepted 886 gifts for the collections and 39,317
items for the library. Among the most important were a large
group of designs by Simon Lissim for porcelain, silver, playing
cards, and screens; an eighteenth-century altar frontal embroidered
in China for the Western market; and seventeen pieces of art
deco and Tiffany glass and metalwork. In addition, McDonnell
Aircraft Company has donated equipment necessary to establish
a holography laboratory. An Advisory Committee for the
Museum’s Holography Program is headed by Dr. Denis Gabor,
the Nobel Laureate.

174 / Smithsonian Year 1975

_——
Facing page:

Red Grooms and helpers adjusting the
Customs House which he constructed
for the “Immovable Objects’ parade.

Right:

John Dobkin, Administrator of the
Cooper-Hewitt, in the Singer Building,
constructed by Peter Wilson of the
architectural firm of Hardy Holzman
and Pfeiffer. The parade inaugurating
the “Immovable Objects” exhibition
moved from City Hall to Chase
Manhattan Plaza at noon on June 18,
1975.

During the year, the Museum has given five objects to the
Metropolitan Museum of Art, twenty to the Royal Ontario
Museum, and twenty-three objects were transferred to the
National Collection of Fine Arts.

A second annual benefit auction was held in May in the Museum
garden, with Mrs. Gerald Ford as honorary patron. Proceeds of
the auction, approximately $125,000, were contributed to the
renovation of the Carnegie Mansion. In addition, the Museum re-
ceived major grants from the New York State Council on the Arts,
the National Endowment for the Arts, and the Mobil Foundation.

Two members have been added to the staff: as Librarian, Mr.
Robert Kaufmann, former librarian of the Art and Architecture
School at Yale; and, as Curator of Decorative Arts, Mr. J. Stewart
Johnson, former curator of decorative arts at the Brooklyn Museum.
Sadly, we must report that Mrs. Mary Blackwelder, Museum
Registrar for eighteen years, died in April, after a long illness.

History and Art / 175
Gala night at the Freer Gallery of Art as an exhibition of Islamic art—Art of the
Arab World’—is opened. The Freer Gallery of Art was assisted in arranging this
exhibition by a grant from the Mobil Oil Corporation.

Dr. Esin Atil, Associate Curator, Near Eastern Art, Freer Gallery of Art, shows Mobil’s
President William P. Tavoulareas (on the right) the unique decoration on one of the
eighty objects of art displayed in the “Art of the Arab World” exhibition.

Freer Gallery of Art

Recent international developments continue to stimulate interest
in the cultures of the Near and the Far East. Understandably, that
interest is reflected in the increasing number of visitors to the Freer
Gallery of Art. In addition, members of the curatorial staff have
noted a sharp increase in requests for information relating to the
Near and Far Eastern collections during fiscal year 1975.

Members of the Freer curatorial staff served as consultants in
the organization of the Exhibition of Archaeological Finds of the
People’s Republic of China, which was shown at the National
Gallery of Art from December 13, 1974, through March 30, 1975.
The Chinese curators who accompanied the exhibition made a
number of lengthy visits to the Freer Gallery of Art, studying
Chinese art objects in the galleries and in storage. Attendance at
the Freer Gallery of Art increased significantly during the period
of the Chinese exhibition. To meet the unusually large number of
requests for docent service, the Gallery added a new docent to
the staff thereby supplementing the existing educational program
by offering gallery tours on a regular basis.

For many years the Technical Laboratory of the Freer Gallery
of Art has been engaged in research relating to metal corrosion.
W. T. Chase, Head Conservator, was asked by the John D. Rocke-
feller III Fund to survey the major conservation facilities and
bronze collections in Asia and to recommend ways in which some
of the more pressing problems of bronze conservation might be
alleviated. Mr. Chase strongly advised that an organized program
of bronze treatment and care be established in Thailand to prevent
the further deterioration of the extraordinary number of objects
infected with bronze disease. At the same time, a project was
also begun on an exhibition to be shown in Bangkok which would
demonstrate the importance of a national conservation program
in Thailand. Mr. Chase assisted in the selection, planning, and
organization of the exhibition. He also wrote the text used in
the catalogue.

Dr. Esin Atil, Curator of Near Eastern Art, organized a special
exhibition entitled, ““Art of the Arab World.” In the catalogue
written by Dr. Atil, each of the eighty objects included in the
exhibition is illustrated in color and discussed in detail. Approxi-

History and Art / 177
mately 1000 people attended the opening of the special exhibition
on May 8. A grant from Mobil Oil Corporation helped defray the
costs of the exhibition.

The large collection of American paintings is among the most
important included in the original Charles Lang Freer bequest.
The numerous works by James McNeill Whistler make the Gallery
a focal point for any study of that artist. Dr. Susan Hobbs joined
the Smithsonian Institution during fiscal year 1975, serving as
Joint-Curator of American Art both in the Freer Gallery of Art
and in the National Collection of Fine Arts. Dr. Hobbs is cur-
rently reviewing the entire American collection in the Gallery
preparatory to writing the catalogue for a special exhibition of
American paintings scheduled for 1976. Dr. Hobbs is also pre-
paring entries on a select group of American paintings to be
illustrated in the Freer handbook.

The Oriental painting mounting studio at the Freer Gallery of
Art has been in operation since the Gallery opened to the public
in 1923. For many years, the Freer studio was the only such
facility in the United States. The three mounters who constitute
the present staff are among the delegates who will attend the
Japan-America Cultural Conference at the Freer Gallery of Art
in August 1975. The purpose of the meeting is to discuss ways of
improving mutual exchange of exhibitions, especially as relates
to the proper conservation of art objects.

In the course of fiscal year 1975, the collections were expanded
by the accession of twenty-two objects. Of those, several fine items
were acquired by gift from Mr. and Mrs. Province Henry of
McLean, Virginia. Over 300 volumes, catalogues, reports, period-
icals, bulletins, and notebooks were given to the library by Mrs.
Rutherford J. Gettens, Colonel F. B. Hoffman, and Mr. and Mrs.
Province Henry.

The Cultural Department of the Imperial Embassy of Iran and
the Freer Gallery of Art presented a series of four lectures on
“The Art and Civilization of Iran.” A lecture on Japanese culture,
jointly sponsored by the Embassy of Japan and the Freer Gallery
of Art, was included in the Gallery’s 22nd Annual Series of
“Illustrated Lectures on Oriental Art.”

178 / Smithsonian Year 1975

eS
Right:

Japanese wood sculpture; Kamakura
period, a.p. 1185-1333. Zocho-ten
(one of the set of Shitenno); poly-
chrome. Height 311 inches. Freer
Gallery of Art.

Below left:

Chinese bronze ritual vessel of the
type yu; Shang dynasty, ca. 1523-1028
p.c. Height: 12%/2 inches. Freer
Gallery of Art.

Below right:

Persian metalwork; Achaemenid
period, fifth century B.c.; made for
Artaxerxes, the son of Xerxes, grand-
son of Darius. Silver Phiale with
repousse decoration representing
radiating stems and lotus flowers.
Inscription on the rim: Artaxerxes,
the Great King, King of Kings, King
of Countries, son of Xerxes the King,
of Xerxes (who was) son of Darius
the King, in whose royal house this
silver saucer was made. Height:

1% inches; diameter: 115 inches.
Freer Gallery of Art.

~. NS

Opening night speech by Mr. Hirshhorn, October 1, 1974.

Distinguished visitors admire lighted fountain in the inner circular court of the
Hirshhorn Museum on opening night, October 1, 1974.

Hillwood

Although the status of Hillwood remained that of an unopened mu-
seum during the past fiscal year, much activity was taking place
behind the scenes. The several thousand objects contained in the
Marjorie Merriweather Post collections were classified and recorded
by the staff.

Records were made of all objects of art after checking the estate
inventory, and polaroid pictures were taken of all objects which
had not been previously photographed. A large number of gifts,
notably those from members of the Post family, were recorded.

The assistant curator established a special system for assigning
accession numbers to the objects in the art collection. Since this
collection consists predominantly of the decorative arts, the system
is based on the materials out of which the objects are made, e.g.,
gold, porcelain, wood, etc. A card file, arranged according to these
categories, is being prepared with the assistance of a part-time
volunteer. Another card file records the location of the object.
Thus far, approximately 2200 cards have been made for objects in
Mrs. Post’s bequest of September 1973.

Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden

A major contribution to the cultural life of both Washington and
the Nation was marked by the opening of the Hirshhorn Museum
and Sculpture Garden on October 1, 1974.

In the first six months of its operation, over one million visitors
were attracted to this new national museum of contemporary art.
The substantial percentage of repeat visitors indicated that this
enthusiastic public response comes from an interest far deeper than
mere curiosity about the Smithsonian Institution’s newest museum
on the Mall.

During the Museum’s first six months, the following public
services were initiated:

(1) A thrice weekly film program, including evening presenta-
tions and Saturday matinee special features for children;

(2) A monthly Sunday lecture series given by outstanding art
historians, critics, and scholars;

History and Art / 181
Left: Sculpture removal by helicopter from Greenwich, Connecticut, in August 1974, for
placement in the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden. Right: Installation of Two

Disks by Alexander Calder, August 1974, at the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden.
Below: Hirshhorn Sculpture Garden as seen from the Mall.

Outer court of the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden.
(3) A special four-part lecture series supported by a grant from
the National Endowment for the Humanities;

(4) A guide program utilizing 135 specially trained docents,
providing regularly scheduled special tours for the public, as well
as tours for visiting national and international dignitaries;

(5) A series of concerts of contemporary music presented in
collaboration with the Smithsonian Institution’s Division of Per-
forming Arts;

(6) Two intern programs, one of which provides an opportunity
for university-enrolled students to earn applicable credits at the
graduate level and the other of which establishes a summer
program for a group of five undergraduate students.

The transfer to Washington of the Museum’s collection of more
than 6000 works of art from storage in New York, Toronto, and
the Hirshhorn estate in Connecticut was completed in September
1974. Painting and sculpture not included in the Inaugural
Exhibition were unpacked, examined, and stored in the painting
and sculpture study-storage areas, located on the fourth floor
and lower level of the Museum, respectively. Many aspects of
this move, as well as of the installation of the Inaugural Exhibition,
were captured in a film entitled A Life of Its Own.

A catalogue of the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden’s
Inaugural Exhibition was published in both hard cover and paper-
back editions at the time of the opening. This volume, now in its
second edition, includes 1019 reproductions—290 in color—of
paintings and sculpture in the Museum’s collection. Also included
is a foreword by S. Dillon Ripley, Secretary of the Smithsonian;
an introduction by Abram Lerner, Director of the Hirshhorn
Museum; and essays by six outstanding art scholars. The docu-
mentation of 1001 works of art was supervised by Curator Cynthia
J. McCabe. A souvenir booklet, An Introduction to the Hirshhorn
Museum and Sculpture Garden, was also published for the opening.

Since the opening, the Museum’s Department of Painting and
Sculpture has actively continued its research on the Museum’s
collection. An archive on the collection has been set up under the
supervision of Curator Inez Garson; material in the archive will
be available to scholars in the field. In addition, basic information
on the collection has been entered in the Smithsonian Institution’s
computer.

184 / Smithsonian Year 1975
Coinciding with the Museum’s public opening, a loan exhibition,
“Sculptors and Their Drawings: Selections from the Hirshhorn
Museum Collection,” opened at the Lyndon Baines Johnson Library
of the University of Texas in Austin. A catalogue was published
for this exhibition, which was viewed by 95,000 visitors between
October 4, 1974, and January 5, 1975.

Other loans from the museum collection included a Man Ray
painting to the Delaware Art Museum; three paintings by Arthur
B. Davies to the Knoedler Gallery; two paintings by Thomas Eakins
and one by Ernest Lawson to the National Collection of Fine Arts;
two paintings by Yasuo Kuniyoshi to the University of Texas Art
Museum in Austin; and three paintings by Ralph Albert Blakelock
to the University of Nebraska Art Galleries. In addition, twenty-
two paintings were loaned to the White House for use in the
Executive Offices and the Residence.

From December 15, 1974, to January 13, 1975, an exhibition of
works honoring the ninetieth birthdays of sculptor José de Creeft
and painter Ben Benn was held in the Hirshhorn Museum’s lower-
level lobby.

“Artist-Immigrants of America 1876 to 1976,” the Museum’s
Bicentennial exhibition, is being organized by Curator Cynthia
J. McCabe. It will consist of more than 230 works by approxi-
mately 70 foreign-born painters, sculptors, architects, photog-
raphers, and filmmakers. The exhibition, which will open in May
1976, will be shown in the second-floor exhibition galleries and on
the outdoor plaza.

Also in preparation are the two exhibitions that will inaugurate
the Hirshhorn Museum’s program of temporary exhibitions:
“Soto: A Retrospective Exhibition,” September 25 to November 9,
1975, and “The Sculpture and Drawings of Elie Nadelman,”
December 18, 1975, to February 15, 1976.

The personnel of the new Conservation Laboratory began to
prepare condition reports on the over 6000 works of art in the
Museum, and at the same time planned and developed an overall
laboratory layout, which will provide the necessary facilities for
a program of professional conservation and preservation of the
permanent collection.

Since the official opening last October, the Department of Ex-
hibits and Design has been conducting a systematic program of

History and Art / 185
Curving sculpture hall in the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden rings
inner circular court.

daily gallery inspection and maintenance. In addition, the Depart-
ment is supervising the repainting of gallery walls and pedestals,
as well as the installation of Plexiglas vitrines, as deemed necessary
for the protection of paintings and sculpture.

The Education Department of the Hirshhorn Museum has the
task of interpreting the collections of the Museum to a broad and
varied public. Programs initiated by the Education Department in-
cluded a series of docent tours for school groups, organized adult
groups, and walk-in visitors; the preparation of printed material
for museum visitors; and the installation of Telesonic electronic
guided tours.

Fifty-five volunteer docents completed the first docent training
given between January 15, 1974, and the opening of the Museum;
guided tours in the Museum’s galleries commenced on October 7,
1974. During the nine-month period through June 1975, the
following tours were given:

186 / Smithsonian Year 1975

Elementary Schools 229 tours 10,018 students

Secondary Schools 105 tours 4,876 students

Adult Groups 385 tours 13,775 adults

General (unscheduled) 789 tours 12,084 adults/children
Total 1,508 tours 40,753 visitors

During this period, the Museum’s docents gave over 4500 hours of
volunteer service.

To meet the increasing needs for additional docents, particularly
during the Bicentennial year, the Museum undertook a second
docent training program. Two hundred and fifty applications were
received and ninety persons were selected for this second program,
which began on January 7, 1975, and continued through April 15.
Seventy-six docents successfully completed this second course. At
the present time, the Museum has a total of 131 docents available
for touring.

Prior to the Museum’s opening in October, work was completed
on five special illustrated leaflets for free public distribution
throughout the Museum. To date, over half a million of these
brochures have been distributed to Museum visitors. Also under
the auspices of the Education Department was the Museum’s
auditorium program of films, lectures, and concerts. Through April
a total of sixty-seven film programs were presented. Ten lectures
on art were given between November 1974 and June 1975. In-
cluded among the lecturers were Dore Ashton, Irving Sandler,
Anne Hanson, Milton Brown, Daniel Robins, and Walter Rosen-
blum. A special series of four lectures on Twentieth-Century Art
was given by Professor Robert Rosenblum of New York Uni-
versity: “Sexism: Picasso as a Male Chauvinist,” “High Art Versus
Low Art: Cubism as Pop,” “War: Art From Sarajevo to Hiro-
shima;” and “Religion: The Deities in Abstract Art.”

As an adjunct to the film program, talks on film as an art
medium were given by Derek Lamb, Rosalind Schneider, Doris
Chase, Robert Breer, John and Faith Hubley, Frank Mouris, and
Lillian Schwartz.

Among the major new American works performed in the
auditorium concert series were “Four Butterflies’ by Morton
Subotnick, “Black Angels’’ by George Crumb, and “Conflicts ’74”
by Lloyd Ultan.

History and Art / 187
Joseph Henry Papers

Volume two of The Papers of Joseph Henry, now in the hands of
the Smithsonian Press, will appear in print in December 1975.
Documented in this volume are Henry’s first three years at Prince-
ton (1832-1835), where his systematic pursuit of earlier discoveries
in electromagnetic induction brought him increased prominence
and into direct rivalry with his great British contemporary, Michael
Faraday. The volume includes extensive selections from personal
and professional correspondence, detailed laboratory notes, and
lengthy diary entries on the contemporary scientific scene. Publica-
tion ceremonies are being planned for Princeton in December.

The next installment of The Papers of Joseph Henry series is
now in progress, tracing Henry’s career at Princeton through mid-
1838. Of paramount interest in volume three are diary entries on
Henry’s first European tour in 1837. With his usual curiosity and
candor, Henry compares European and American science and
culture. Especially noteworthy are detailed observations on Euro-
pean technological installations, such as lighthouse systems, that
foreshadow Henry’s later involvement with comparable American
projects. In addition to preparing the letterpress series, the Henry
Papers’ staff continues to work toward a special volume of Henry’s
lectures and addresses, designed to reach both a scholarly and
popular audience.

During the last year, the Institution received title to the surviv-
ing library of Alexander Graham Bell, a major section of which
comprises the Joseph Henry Library, which had been on loan to
the Henry Papers project for over five years. An inventory of the
Bell books revealed about 150 additional Henry volumes. The
entire collection, amounting to some 2800 volumes, will be formally
installed at the Smithsonian as the Bell-Henry Library. Major
steps have been taken toward developing a publishable catalogue
of the Henry Library, with the use of a computer index. An index
to the Henry annotations contained in the books and pamphlets
has also been prepared. Bell’s valuable collection of scientific books
will also be indexed by computer.

The appearance, in 1972, of the first volume in The Papers of
Joseph Henry series has made scholars increasingly aware of the
Henry Papers as an important data resource for the history of

188 / Smithsonian Year 1975
science. Copies of the vast bulk of private manuscripts relating to
Henry’s career are now on hand at the project and indexed by
computer. The collections have attracted numerous students and
outside scholars to work at the Henry Papers over the past year;
research topics included studies of the French physicist Ampere,
of the American explorer and naturalist Kennicott, and of the
geologist G. K. Gilbert. The nineteenth-century seminar, sponsored
by the Henry Papers, continues to draw scholars from both within
and outside the Institution.

National Armed Forces Museum Advisory Board

At its meeting on December 16, 1974, the National Armed Forces
Museum Advisory Board approved a report to the Board of
Regents of the Smithsonian Institution concerning its participation
in an investigation and survey of lands and buildings in and near
the District of Columbia suitable for the display of military collec-
tions, pursuant to the provisions of Section 3(a) of the Act of
August 30, 1961 (75 Stat. 414, 20 USC 80-80d), which established
the Board.

The Advisory Board noted that its participation in the investiga-
tion and survey was lengthy and thorough, extending from 1962
to 1974. During those years, with the assistance of the Advisory
Board and with the approval of the Board of Regents, the Smith-
sonian Institution made a series of efforts, without success, to
acquire a suitable site on which to establish a National Armed
Forces Museum as a separate entity with facilities as were sug-
gested in Section 3(b) of the Act of August 30, 1961. The Advisory
Board recommended that, in view of recent history, the Smithsonian
not renew such efforts until circumstances materially change.

The Advisory Board expressed its satisfaction at the establish-
ment, in the National Museum of History and Technology, of the
study center—known as the Dwight D. Eisenhower Institute for
Historical Research—authorized under Section 2(a) of the Act of
August 30, 1961. The Board stated its conviction and recommended
that this study center, working in concert with the curatorial and
exhibits components of the National Museum of History and

History and Art / 189
Technology, can and should play a vital part in the development
of future Smithsonian programs toward portrayal of the historic
contributions of the Armed Forces of the United States to American
society and culture.

The Advisory Board recommended further that the Smithsonian
act (1) within the National Museum of History and Technology
and (2) in concert with the Department of the Interior, at Fort
Washington, Maryland, to carry out to the fullest extent possible
the purposes of Section 2(a) of the Act of August 30, 1961, which
calls for the creative display of military artifacts to further the
public’s understanding of the role of the military forces in our
national life. The Advisory Board stated its readiness to advise and
assist the Board of Regents toward the furtherance of all programs
to carry out this goal.

National Collection of Fine Arts

Over the years, from the very beginning of the Smithsonian, the
collection which is now the National Collection of Fine Arts has
acquired a wide and representative range of American art, including
not only works by the acknowledged great, but also those by artists
who were acclaimed in their time but ignored by succeeding genera-
tions. Now numbering over 17,000 works, the NcFA continues
to be concerned with all aspects of American art. It searches for
works to fill areas poorly covered in the past and acquires a broad
cross section of contemporary material. It is rare, however, that it
has the pleasure of adding to the Collection such masterpieces as
the two superb portraits by Ralph Earl, painted in 1792, acquired
by purchase and partial gift this year. According to the descendant
from whom the works were acquired, the stern-faced Mrs. Mary
W. Alsop took over the family importing business on the death of
her husband, using her helpful mother, the subject of the other
portrait, as a kind of watchful lieutenant. The carefully specific
landscapes in the backgrounds are among Earl's finest.

Notable among the other 995 paintings, graphic works, and
sculpture added to the Collection this year were Charles Willson
Peale’s portrait of Mathias and Thomas Bordley, probably his most

190 / Smithsonian Year 1975
Ralph Earl, Portrait of Mrs. Mary W. Alsop,
1792, National Collection of Fine Arts.

Gertrude Stein by Red Grooms,
National Collection of Fine Arts.
important miniature painting; William Rimmer’s evocative little
painting, At the Window; Roger Brown’s World’s Tallest Disaster
(from the “Made in Chicago” exhibition); and many fine twentieth-
century prints and drawings including Red Grooms’s three-dimen-
sional print of Gertrude Stein. Special attention has been given to
graphic works from the 1920s and 1930s, a period in which the
NCFA has a particular interest, such as its Louis Lozowick’s 1928
lithograph Crane.

Since many paintings acquired by the collection or shown in its
exhibitions represent forgotten aspects of American art, they often
have suffered physical neglect and must be restored before they
regain their rightful historical content. NcFA’s conservation staff—
a conservator of paper was added this year—is kept busy not only
maintaining the health of the works of art but revealing the true
appearance of the past. Many brown-tinged paintings selected for
the “American Art in the Barbizon Mood” exhibition emerged
fresh and brilliant in hue, forcing a reevaluation of some historical
assumptions. A large percentage of the works in the exhibition
“Academy” were cleaned for the first time in many years and again
could dazzle the eye as they originally did.

The physical space and context in which works of art are seen
is of major concern to the ncra. All exhibitions, including those in
the Renwick Gallery, are mounted so that the individual works
can have the space, color, and general atmosphere necessary for
their full appreciation. The temporary exhibitions that were pre-
sented this year in the large third-floor gallery were especially
striking, from the shadowy motel-like complex of ‘Made in
Chicago,’
of his choice, to the rich soft colors and free flowing space of
“American Art in the Barbizon Mood,” and finally to the formal
dignity of “Academy: the Academic Tradition in American Art,”
with its effect of an atrium with diffused light and four surrounding
galleries painted in colors sympathetic to works from the periods
they represented. All designs were by Val Lewton of the Depart-
ment of Exhibition and Design, who also held a one-man exhibition

J

in which each artist had a room painted with the color

of his paintings in June. This year’s temporary exhibitions at the
Renwick were just as dramatic, ranging from the rather sombre
dignity of “The Goldsmith,” to the sprightly and irreverent ‘Figure
and Fantasy,” and to the elegantly proportioned display of “A

192 / Smithsonian Year 1975

Modern Consciousness,” showing the furniture introduced over
the years by D. J. Dupree and Florence Knoll. These installations
were designed by Renwick Curator Michael Monroe.

In all, eighteen exhibitions were produced by the ncra during the
year, including sculptures and drawings by ‘““Chaim Gross’’; works
by “Ilya Bolotowsky” (produced with the Guggenheim Museum);
“Two Decades of American Prints: 1920-1940”; paintings by the
little-known “Horatio Shaw (1847-1918)”; “Art for Architecture,”
photographs and studies of murals from the turn of the century
in Washington; ‘Pennsylvania Academy Moderns,” showing early
twentieth-century modern painters from Philadelphia; and the
“24th National Exhibition of Prints,” a juried print exhibition
sponsored jointly with the Library of Congress.

Exhibitions from abroad shown in the Renwick included ““Con-
temporary Nigerian Art: Craftsmen from Oshogbo” and ‘Con-
temporary Textile Art from Austria,” the latter produced in
association with the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition

Exhibition view, “Academy: The Academic Tradition in American Art,”
National Collection of Fine Arts.

Service. Exhibitions sent to other countries through ncra’s Office
of Exhibitions Abroad included Catlin’s paintings of American
Indians shown in the Middle East, ‘“Calder’s Circus” sent to the
Far East, and “Variations on the Camera’s Eye,” an exhibition of
recent paintings, circulated in South and Central America. ““Made
in Chicago,” which circulated in South America, returned after a
very successful showing in Mexico City and, expanded and pro-
vided with a new catalogue, was shown in Washington and
Chicago.

Two exhibitions highlighted the year: ‘““American Art in the
Barbizon Mood” and “Academy.” The first, directed by Dr. Peter
Bermingham, Curator of Education, who wrote the authoritative
publication accompanying the show, explored the work of those
late nineteenth-century American painters who painted with the
French painters in Barbizon or were attracted by the “Barbizon
Mood.” This, the first thorough look at these painters, who were
shown here side by side with their French colleagues, proved reveal-
ing in both quality and variety.

The exhibition, “Academy,” directed by Dr. Lois Fink, Curator
of Research, and commemorating the founding of the National
Academy of Design in 1825, was produced with the extensive co-
operation of that institution. The 271-page publication, Academy:
The Academic Tradition in American Art, is based on a new study
of the Academy’s records, which have now been microfilmed. Many
paintings from the Academy’s collection, unseen for years, were
restored for the show.

The staff also has participated in professional activity outside the
Museum. Several have juried exhibitions in various parts of the
country and presented lectures either on the museum or in their
special field. Mrs. Edith I. Martin of the Renwick Gallery was
active in both the local and national organization of the National
Conference of Artists. Miss Abigail Booth, who heads the Bicen-
tennial Inventory of American Painting Before 1914, met with
volunteer groups in many cities who are actively studying works
in local collections at the behest of the Inventory. The Inventory
is in touch with some 2500 individuals and agencies, and has now
registered descriptions of 150,000 paintings. The museum’s educa-
tional activities have been much studied by professionals from here
and abroad, and, in August, Miss Margery Gordon of the education

194 / Smithsonian Year 1975
staff spoke at the International Conference on Art Education in
Split, Yugoslavia. Mr. Walter Hopps, Curator of Twentieth-
Century Painting and Sculpture, lectured in Paris and Vienna and
served on the jury of the Paris Biennial. Mr. Lloyd Herman,
Director of the Renwick Gallery, spent several weeks in Europe
visiting craft museums and discussing the possibility of future
exhibition exchanges. Dr. Taylor lectured in various cities, con-
ducted museum workshops in the Northwest, and spent two
weeks in Caracas, Venezuela, lecturing and advising on the forma-
tion of a new gallery of national art.

National Museum of History and Technology

The collections of the National Museum of History and Tech-
nology, which touch on virtually every aspect of American life and
history, have led the Museum in many directions as it prepares to
commemorate the Nation’s Bicentennial. In five major exhibits, two
of which were recently opened, more than 22,000 objects will be
displayed for visitors as part of the national celebration. Four of
the exhibits will be on view in the Museum, and one, “1876: A
Centennial Exhibition,” will occupy the four bays and central
rotunda of the Arts and Industries Building.

“Suiting Everyone,” the Museum’s first Bicentennial exhibition,
was launched in September 1974. It chronicles the democratization
of clothing in America through 200 years of evolution and revolu-
tion in design, production, and marketing. Demands for a traveling
exhibit on the theme were so great that five duplicate copies were
made, each now on a two-year tour. The range of the exhibition
was further extended by an illustrated catalogue, written by
Claudia Kidwell and Margaret Christman, and a handbook on
costume conservation by Karyn Harris.

The project was a multidisciplinary effort, based upon two years
of research by Mrs. Kidwell, coordinator of the exhibit, assisted
by Donald Kloster, Assistant Curator of Military History, and
Grace Cooper, Curator of Textiles. An Apparel Advisory Group
made up of fashion designers, clothing manufacturers and retailers,
and fashion editors assisted curators in the selection of the con-
temporary fashions shown. Some of the clothing on display was

History and Art / 195
acquired through a nationwide appeal for period clothing, which
drew responses from 4500 Americans from California to Maine.

The exhibition is in four sections. The first, ““Clothing for Some-
body,” contrasts the elegant fashions of wealthy eighteenth-
century Americans with the simple, utilitarian homespuns worn by
the majority of the people. The second and third sections, ““Cloth-
ing for Anybody” (1800-1860) and “Clothing for Everybody”
(1860-1920), trace the development of the “ready-made” clothing
industry made possible by the Industrial Revolution. The last
section, “Something for Everybody,” presents the variety of cloth-
ing, textiles, and styles available to Americans over the past
fifty years.

In addition to the clothing displayed, the early tools of textile
manufacture and of the ““ready-made” dress trade are shown, includ-
ing Samuel Slater’s original spinning frame and a model Eli
Whitney made about 1800 showing minor adjustments to his
original cotton gin. Later and more sophisticated machines, which
speeded up production of textiles, fabrics, and designs, as well as
factory machines for sewing, cutting, and pressing, are included.
By the turn of the century, the American consumer was able to
rely upon the “ready-to-wear” market for clothing for his entire
family.

In early April, ‘“Suiting Everyone” served as the focus for a two-
day symposium on early American clothing manufacture, spon-
sored by the Costume Society of America.

With introspection befitting the Nation on its two-hundredth
birthday, the Museum’s second Bicentennial exhibition, ““We The
People,” which opened on June 4, takes a reflective look at the
American people and their government. Its title derived from the
Constitution, the exhibit’s three major sections explore the mean-
ing of Lincoln’s phrase, “government of the people, by the people,
for the people.” “Of the People’ asks who we are as a people;
“By the People” asks how we have governed ourselves; and ‘For
the People” asks what we as citizens have asked of our government.

Seeking first to define Americans as a Nation, the exhibition
opens with an exuberant display of symbols by which the United
States is recognized around the world. “Of the People” also looks
at the tools of census by which Americans have defined themselves

196 / Smithsonian Year 1975

statistically since 1790. With the growth of the United States came
stature as a nation among nations. Gifts presented to American
presidents by many nations, on view in “Of the People,” range
from a pair of muskets inlaid with coral and gold presented to
President Jefferson by the Emperor of Morocco to the famous
“Resolute Desk” used at the White House by every president from
Hayes through Kennedy.

The section on “By the People” illuminates the struggles of the
disenfranchised for the right to vote. The pre-Civil War era saw
voting by American immigrants, and the Civil War brought voting
by Union soldiers and freed slaves, and resulted in the temporary
disenfranchisement of Southern whites. Dramatizing the right to
petition is a painted view of the East Capitol Steps, in front of
which protestors march petitioning the Nation’s legislators for
social, economic, and political change. Its life-size scale makes
visitors feel a part of historic protest movements. The first major

“We the People,” a Bicentennial exhibit at the National Museum of History
and Technology. View of the East Capitol Steps, in front of which protestors
march petitioning the Nation’s legislators for social, economic, and political
change.

WOMEN'S A
PEACE UNION a ay. . ar

r - i r
‘ p LW ~ 2 hor
ae tlc media’ ah , } ww sat NO * _[heatny JT!
EMISPHERE ive y aes ees ty pines?
i> | =a

ae NOW!
cor THEW ¢ childern

i Jiving thing i
= : Hf
ond, + pes

history in artifacts of the right to petition, the exhibit displays such
present-day symbols of protest as a canvas-and-plywood hut from
Resurrection City and a Vietnam War Veterans Against the War
banner, with the familiar red shawl of women’s rights advocate
Susan B. Anthony, John Quincy Adam’s abolitionist cane, and,
from the Revolutionary era,a Stamp Act box which once carried
the King’s seals.

The Preamble to the Constitution, which broadly defines areas of
responsibility the American people wished their government to
assume, provides the basis for the final section, ‘For the People.”
Nineteenth-century America saw steady territorial expansion
beyond the original states, beginning with the acquisition of the
Louisiana Territory. The panoramic painting ‘“Grand Canyon of
the Yellowstone’’ by landscape artist Thomas Moran, suggests the
vastness of the wilderness which awaited nineteenth-century
settlers. Various objects tell the story of government exploration
of new lands and government programs for settlement, culminat-
ing with twentieth-century explorations, exemplified by a lunar
sample box which carried rocks collected on the moon’s surface
by Apollo 11 astronauts.

“We The People” was funded with a special appropriation from
the Congress, and was researched and produced by Margaret Klap-
thor, Curator-in-Charge, and Herbert Collins, Curator, assisted by
the able staff of the Division of Political History and the NMHT
Office of Exhibits. The Hall was designed by the Washington firm
of Staples & Charles. A catalogue accompanies the exhibit.

Three remaining Bicentennial exhibitions have been progressing
rapidly, with the majority of the Museum staff redirected toward
these endeavors. “American Banking,” the Museum’s first major
exhibit on this vital aspect of American life, will open on September
17, 1975. This exhibition, made possible by a grant from the
American Bankers Association, is being prepared under the direc-
tion of Dr. Vladimir and Mrs. Elvira Clain-Stefanelli, Curators of
Numismatics, and designed by the firm of Joseph A. Wetzel of
Stamford, Connecticut. The exhibit will be installed in the
Museums third-floor special exhibits gallery.

Almost 5000 objects—from buttons to buildings—have been
assembled for inclusion in “A Nation of Nations,” opening early
in 1976. One of the largest exhibits ever produced by the Smith-
sonian, ‘“A Nation of Nations” will tell of the early settlers and

198 / Smithsonian Year 1975
later immigrants who populated the United States, making it a
nation of many nations whose peoples created a diverse cultural
heritage. Two period buildings have been installed and work has
been started on two others. With the exhibit area already through
structural alterations, work on individual exhibit cases is now
underway. The design has been completed for approximately two-
thirds of the exhibit. “A Nation of Nations” will impart a full
array of museum experiences—original three-dimensional objects,
graphics, posters, moving exhibits, music and sound effects, and
audiovisual presentations. A team of twenty-two museum staff
members are actively engaged in the development of the project
under the direction of a committee chaired by Carl H. Scheele,
Division of Philately and Postal History, and including Richard
E. Ahlborn, Division of Ethnic and Western Cultural History;
Grace R. Cooper, Division of Textiles; Harold D. Langley, Division
of Naval History; Otto Mayr, Division of Mechanical and Civil
Engineering; C. Malcolm Watkins, Department of Cultural History;
and John H. White, Jr., Division of Transportation. The exhibit
is being designed by the New York firm of Chermayeff and
Geismar.

In 1975 virtually all collecting and design was completed for
“1876: A Centennial Exhibition’”—Nnmut’s microcosmic recreation
of the Philadelphia Centennial slated for the restored Arts and
Industries Building. Well over half the curatorial staff has been
involved in “1876,” with overall planning delegated to a com-
mittee comprised of Robert M. Vogel, Curator-in-Charge; Benjamin
Lawless, the Museum’s Assistant Director for Design and Produc-
tion; William Miner, Project Manager; Nadya Makovenyi, De-
signer; and Robert Post, Historian. In February, Jon D. Freshour,
formerly Registrar at the National Portrait Gallery, joined “1876”
as Collections Manager.

Having completed restoration of an impressive array of century-
old machine tools, the NMut Technical Laboratory turned to a
diversity of other large objects for “1876.” Among the major
projects were several field pieces from NAFMAB, and two Rodman
Guns—one with a 15-inch barrel weighing nearly 25 tons—that
once defended Chesapeake Bay; a Nasmyth forging hammer 22
feet high; a sorghum mill, grist mill, and wooden windmill; and a
Brayton Ready Motor, an oil-burning, flame-ignition engine
patented in 1874.

History and Art / 199
One of several projects ably handled by a group of volunteers
headed by Lieutenant Commander Stanley Stumbo, U.S.N., was
the restoration of an Otis steam elevator engine. A period freight
platform is being rigged to operate in the West Hall of the Arts and
Industries Building, thanks to a generous donation by the Otis
Company in New York.

Important restoration projects include a steam locomotive built
in 1876 by the Baldwin Locomotive Works for the Santa Cruz
Railroad in California. Its acquisition ends a fifteen-year search
by Curator of Transportation John H. White for an authentic
American-type locomotive (4-4-0 wheel arrangement). Formerly
owned by O. Roy Chalk, who had it on exhibit in a Washington
playground, it was exchanged with a newer steam locomotive in
May 1975. Refurbishing, under the direction of John Stine, in-
cludes fabrication of a new wooden pilot and cab.

A less awkward but equally difficult project was the restoration of
hundreds of dental tools, surgical instruments, prosthetic devices,
and pharmaceutical specimens undertaken by Michael Harris and
Everett Jackson of the Division of Medical Sciences. In many
instances, displays of these objects will be faithful replicas of
Philadelphia exhibits a century ago.

A variety of objects representing foreign nations has been
located by Anne Golovin. Herbert Collins and Peggy Bruton
showed great resourcefulness in putting together exhibits repre-
sentative of the states of the union, as did Deborah Warner in
developing a miniature version of the Women’s Pavilion. All in all,
“1876” may well be the most diversified, evocative, and colorful
exhibition the Smithsonian has ever done, and its opening next
May is expected to be one of the outstanding events of our
Bicentennial year.

Between major hall openings the Museum has produced a num-
ber of important temporary exhibits. Notable among these was the
first showing anywhere of a selection of original folios from the
long-lost Madrid Manuscripts of Leonardo da Vinci, on loan from
the Spanish government. Arrangements for the loan and exhibition
of these important manuscripts were initiated and carried forward
by the Deputy Director of the Museum, Silvio A. Bedini. The manu-
scripts formed a portion of two volumes once part of the private
collection of King Philip V of Spain. Codex Madrid I includes
Leonardo’s sketches of devices that were not to find application for

200 / Smithsonian Year 1975
The National Museum of History and Technology has acquired a ninety-nine-
year-old “American type” steam locomotive whose kind dominated the
Nation’s railways in the nineteenth century. Built in Philadelphia in 1876 as a
wood burner, the engine is one of about 25 in existence today of the approxi-
mately 25,000 manufactured. The engine will be exhibited in “1876: A Centen-
nial Exhibition.”

many years, or that were to be reinvented centuries later. In this
notebook, Leonardo also developed a systematic analysis of the
concepts and elements of machines. Codex Madrid II is more of a
daily notebook, with sketches and remarks covering a multitude
of topics.

The manuscripts on display were written in Leonardo’s curious
“mirror” or reverse script. A number of objects from the Museum’s
collections were shown, together with several models, based on
Leonardo’s drawings, produced by International Business Machines.
The exhibit was opened with a lecture by Professor Ludwig M.
Heydenreich of Munich on “Visualized Knowledge,” an interpreta-
tion of the Madrid codices. Following display at the Museum, the
exhibition was loaned to the American Museum of Natural History
in New York City for a brief showing at the American Association
for the Advancement of Science meetings.

In “America Set to Music,” a selection of songsheets from the
collection of Mr. Lester S. Levy of Pikesville, Maryland, were dis-
played with objects in the Museum’s collections suggested by the
musical scores. The sheet music evoked vivid pictures of nine-
teenth-century American life, ranging in theme from national issues
and politics to romance, fashion, parlor games, and popular sports
for men and women. Some of the sheet music related to American

History and Art / 201
technological achievements, from the first drilling for oil to the
invention of Bell’s ““Wondrous Telephone” and “Edison’s phono-
graph.” Notable cover illustrations were a striking lithography of
two girls, orphaned by the Boston fire of 1872, pictured on the
cover of “Homeless To-night, or Boston in Ashes;” humorous
portrayals of the latest fashions; and a political cartoon for the
song “Inflation Galop” which depicted a despondent President
Grant in 1874 watching political opponents fill a huge balloon.

From January to May, the nMut was host to “Steuben, Seventy
Years of American Glassmaking,” a traveling exhibition, organized
by the Toledo Museum of Art, featuring more than 100 of Steuben’s
greatest accomplishments since 1903. Highlighted in the exhibit
were major pieces which had served as gifts of state, such as the
“Great Ring of Canada,” America’s gift to the people of Canada
on that nation’s centennial in 1967, and the “Merry-Go-Round
Bowl” which President and Mrs. Truman presented to Queen
Elizabeth II at her marriage in 1947.

Finally, construction was begun on the Hall of American Mari-
time Enterprises in which will be told the story of America’s inter-
action with the sea from the colonial period to the Nation’s
emergence as a major sea power. The first exhibit for the new
Hall, the 3-ton triple expansion steam engine of the United States
Coast Guard tender Oak, was restored, rebuilt, and placed in the
Hall, where it will provide the Museum visitor with an engineer’s
view of a ship’s operating powerplant.

The Museum’s popular Van Alstyne Collection of American Folk
Art, which was removed from the second floor to make room for
the “A Nation of Nations” exhibit, has been installed in new space
on the first-floor rotunda and opened in time for the Festival of
American Folklife.

A modest but unusual exhibit installed with virtually no cost,
which drew impressive press and public comment, was the
“Whatsit” case, a continuing display of a variety of objects, the
identity of which had not been positively established by the
Museum staff. These items had been assembled from the Museum’s
collections over a period of years, and comments solicited from the
public led to positive identification of several of the objects.

The popular Frank Nelson Doubleday Lectures, Frontiers of
Knowledge, continued to draw on the world’s leading thinkers and

202 / Smithsonian Year 1975

At the exhibition “Steuben, Seventy Years of American Glassmaking,” Paul N.
Perrot (right), National Museum of History and Technology’s Assistant Secre-
tary for Museum Programs, and Paul V. Gardner (left), Curator, Division of
Ceramics and Glass, National Museum of History and Technology, admire
The Great Ring of Canada (height: 40 inches), a unique creation of Steuben
artists. Inscribed ‘For the People of Canada on the Centenary of Canada’s
Nationhood from the People of the United States of America,” it was presented
in 1967 to Prime Minister Lester Pearson by President Lyndon B. Johnson.

shapers of events to speak on themes reflecting the broad concerns
of the National Museum of History and Technology. This year’s
series, “The Modern Explorers,” looked at explorations made
possible by twentieth-century advances in technology, from expedi-
tions to the last untouched regions of earth to probes of the
galaxies and, in some senses, the past. Speakers were New Zealand
explorer Sir Edmund Hillary, British astronomer and mathematician
Sir Fred Hoyle, a leading theoretician on the origin and nature of
the universe, and Nobel Prize-winning American chemist Willard
Frank Libby, discoverer of the radiocarbon dating technique. Bio-
chemist and science fiction writer Isaac Asimov ended the series
with a look at explorations yet to come, his topic being ‘The
Moon as Threshold.”

A special lecture sponsored by the Division of Electricity on

History and Art / 203
“Superconductive Energy Storage For Large Electric Power Sys-
tems” featured Professor H. A. Peterson who holds the Electric
Utilities Chair in Power Engineering at the University of Wisconsin,
Professor W. C. Young, and Professor R. W. Boom, all of the
University of Wisconsin.

The continuing philatelic lectures presented in cooperation with
the United States Postal Service featured four stamp issues;
Greever Allan on “The Universal Postal Union 1874-1974”; Dr.
Keith E. Melder on ‘’The Chautauqua Centennial”; and Mr.
Sinclair H. Hitchings on “Currier and Ives, and Their Art.’”” Subse-
quent lectures looked at the stamp series ‘Contributors to the
Cause,” with speakers Dr. Lillian B. Miller and Mr. Rodney H. C.
Schmidt, and finally the quartet of stamps issued by the Postal
Service depicting ‘Military Uniforms of the American Revolution.”
Edward T. Vebell, designer of the stamps, was the evening’s
speaker.

The National Museum of History and Technology’s one o’clock
Tuesday Presentations offered a wide range of free films for the
visiting public, as well as occasional lectures. Especially popular
films included the prize-winning “Rube Goldberg . . . Or Doing It
the Hard Way,” produced by the Museum in conjunction with a
past exhibit, and Charles Eames’s shorts, ‘Tops’ and “Toccata for
Toy Trains.” Lectures ranged in theme from “Women Astronomers
in America” and ‘‘The Evolution of the Drug Store” to “Restora-
tions for the Smithsonian’s Centennial Exhibition,” about the
readying of heavy machinery from America’s early industrial age
for viewing in the Bicentennial retrospective, “1876: A Centennial
Exhibition.”

The National Museum of History and Technology’s Division of
Public Information and Education recently completed its first year
of independent existence following decentralization of the Smith-
sonian’s Office of Elementary and Secondary Education. Respon-
sible for educating and informing the public about the Museum,
the Division has continued regular school tours and greatly ex-
panded its offerings of prescheduled and walk-in programs for
other museum visitors.

During the 1974-1975 school year (October through May), 155
volunteer docents specializing in varied interest areas such as
Colonial Experience, Energy, Transportation, and Needlework con-

204 / Smithsonian Year 1975

ducted school tours for 26,855 students, 212 Outreach programs
in area schools, and 1557 tours for general visitors. In addition,
another group of docents conducted 380 Highlights Tours for
weekend visitors. In all, more than 60,000 people had the oppor-
tunity to participate in the Museum’s docent-conducted educa-
tional program.

New tours in “Suiting Everyone” have been added and other
tours, such as “Newsmaking,” ‘Medical Sciences,” and “Techno-
logical Change,” have been modified to appeal to the walk-in
audience.

A new feature of the Educational Program has been the Spirit of
1776 Discovery Corner located in the Armed Forces Hall. Within
this area docents offer short presentations while encouraging
visitors to touch and handle artifacts relating to the common
soldier in the American Revolution. This exhibition served 3395
visitors in 178 sessions during its first six weeks of operation.
Other “discovery corners” are planned to bring the visitor into
contact with the Museum’s wide-ranging collections.

During the summer of 1974, the Division and the nmnu’s Office
of Education participated with the D. C. Public Schools in a Title I
enrichment program designed to bring museum experiences into
the classroom. Museum-trained high school students presented
“touch-it” talks relating to colonial America and natural history
to elementary school students, giving children the opportunity to
handle and examine related objects.

The Division also worked with the Office of Elementary and
Secondary Education to provide workshops for area teachers. From
these programs have come greater cooperation and understanding
of the needs of the local schools.

This year the Museum was called upon to repair the ceremonial
mace of the House of Representatives. Under the supervision of
Mr. Robert M. Organ of the Conservation-Analytical Laboratory,
the historic mace was examined and repaired by Mr. Robert Klinger
and Mr. Donald Holst of the Office of Exhibits Model Shop. The
mace, not originally designed to stand upright, when first presented
to the House of Representatives 133 years ago, was altered so
that it could stand upon a marble base when the House was in
session. In the course of the years the tenon fitting into the
marble had loosened. Repair included replacing the original wooden

History and Art / 205
Robert Klinger with ceremonial mace of the House of Representatives which
was repaired in NMHT’s Office of Exhibits Model Shop.

core with a bronze rod. None of the structural repairs altered the
outer appearance of the mace, which was further cleaned and re-
furbished, and shortly returned to the House.

Additions to the collections of the National Museum of History
and Technology were numerous and varied, ranging from thirty-
seven grain testing devices for the Division of Agriculture, an 1898
single truck street car and 1892 cable car trailer for the Division
of Transportation, to an early nineteenth-century orchestral horn
by Courtois of Paris and a gourd fiddle from St. Mary’s County,
Maryland, for the Division of Musical Instruments. The Division
also arranged for a long-term loan of a harpsichord by Joseph
Johannes Couchet, dated 1679.

In the Division of Political History, the generous gift of ap-
proximately 15,000 more objects relating to political campaigning
from Mr. Ralph E. Becker brings together the entire Becker collec-
tion. Combined with more than 4000 objects from the Honorable
Michael V. Disalle and 665 objects from the estate of the late

206 / Smithsonian Year 1975
Presentation of Rush Tray to the Smithsonian, February 1975, in the Secretary’s
Parlor, Smithsonian Institution Building. Left to right, Colonel Benjamin Rush
III, Curator Anne Golovin, Curator James M. Goode, and Mrs. Benjmain
Rush II.

William F. and Edith R. Meggers, the Museum’s collection of
political campaigning memorabilia becomes not only the largest
but the most important in the country. A large number of these
new acquisitions are featured in the exhibit, “We the People.”

Among the most important single items acquired was a Chinese
export porcelain bowl decorated with the insignia of the Order of
the Cincinnati from the set purchased by General George Wash-
ington in 1786. Continuously owned by Washington’s descendants
to the present, the bowl has been on loan to the Museum since
1916.

The Division also acquired an engraved silver platter inscribed
to Dr. Benjamin Rush in 1798 for his services to Philadelphia’s City
Hospital during that year’s yellow fever calamity. America’s lead-
ing physician until his death in 1813, Dr. Rush, signer of the
Declaration of Independence, was Surgeon General during the
American Revolution. His son, Richard, who inherited the platter,
was Minister to France and England, and was instrumental in ob-

History and Art / 207
Chinese export porcelain bowl, decorated with the insignia of the Order of
the Cincinnati, from the set purchased by General George Washington in 1786,
acquired by the Division of Political History, National Museum of History and
Technology.

taining the bequest which established the Smithsonian Institution.
The tray is the work of Philadelphia silversmith John Myers, and
was donated to the Museum by Mrs. Benjamin Rush and the late
Mr. Rush, a sixth generation descendant of the doctor.

Among the 331 pieces of ceramics and glass acquired by the
Division of Ceramics and Glass were two extremely rare pieces
of early Chelsea porcelain, 1745-1752, an American porcelain
vase made for the Philadelphia Centennial Exposition of 1876, and
rare pressed glass made in Wheeling, West Virginia, late in the
nineteenth century.

Notable acquisitions for the Department of Cultural History
include a pair of painted Hepplewhite-style side chairs of a Phila-
delphia type predating 1800, an Empire-style wardrobe of the
1830s with the label of Joseph Meeks and Sons of New York
City, and two fine eighteenth-century side chairs from New York.

An important addition to the Museum’s Warshaw Collection of
Business Americana was a gift of the New York advertising firm,
N. W. Ayer ABH International, of more than 400,000 proofs of
advertisements published in newspapers and periodicals between
1889 and 1960, including the firm’s first advertisements of the

208 / Smithsonian Year 1975
A rare American porcelain vase, of a type especially produced for the 1876
Centennial by the Union Porcelain Works of Greenpoint, Long Island. Height:
21%4 inches. National Museum of History and Technology.
Model A Ford. A selection of early telecommunications and com-
puting devices and electronic components was presented to the
Division of Electricity by Akio Morita, founder and president of
Sony Corporation, among them the first transistor radio manufac-
tured in Japan and the world’s first transistorized portable video-
tape recorder.

The Division of Medical Sciences obtained a large collection of
obstetrical forceps representing two centuries of development, and
a large variety of American dental office equipment and tools as
well as a homeopathic pharmacy including fixtures. The Division
of Electricity and Modern Physics acquired a nuclear adiabatic
demagnetization apparatus and an atomic beam apparatus, soon to
be exhibited, while the Division of Mechanical and Civil Engineer-
ing’s acquisitions ranged from Helen Keller’s gold touch watch
to a collection of approximately 14,000 drawings from the former
Southwark Machine Works of Philadelphia, representing that firm’s
activities as a major nineteenth-century machine builder from
circa 1880 to 1910.

During the past year, the Museum has branched out more
actively into academic realms with the establishment of new
centers of learning and fellowship opportunities designed to make
it a living museum. With the decentralization of the staff of the
National Armed Forces Museum Advisory Board, two of its
members have joined the staff of the recently established Dwight
D. Eisenhower Institute for Historical Research, which has spon-
sored several important conferences and meetings.

In April the Institute served as host at the Smithsonian for a
conference with representatives of various Federal agencies and
services to establish the historic vessel, Monitor, as a marine
sanctuary. In April a meeting sponsored by the Institute and held
in the Museum brought together representatives of the Ford
Foundation, leading television corporations, telecommunications ex-
perts, historians, representatives of the Library of Congress, the
National Archives, and the National Education Association. The
purpose of the meeting, which was chaired by Dr. Eric Barnow,
was to suggest guidelines for preserving television footage which
would save vital materials for future historical purposes.

The Institute will sponsor the annual meeting of the Interna-
tional Commission of Military History, to be held at the Smith-

210 / Smithsonian Year 1975
Helen Keller’s gold touch watch and case.
National Museum of History and Technology.

sonian in August 1975. Dr. Pogue, chairman of the committee on
organization that wrote the constitution of the United States
Commission, has served as a member of the executive committee,
and was one of the trustees to sign the charter for the United States
Commission in the spring of 1975.

The Institute has announced plans for three conferences on
United States occupation policies to be held under its sponsorship
at the MacArthur Memorial Library, in Norfolk, Virginia; the
Marshall Research Foundation of Lexington, Virginia; and at the
Smithsonian Institution. Dr. Pogue has been working with planning
committees of the cooperating institutions.

A new position of Visiting Scholar was created to bring to the
Museum a succession of eminent historians and individuals of dis-
tinction in the museum world to pursue their own research and to

History and Art / 211
serve the Museum in an advisory capacity. The first appointee was
Dr. A. Hunter Dupree, on sabbatical leave from Brown University,
where he has been the George L. Littlefield Professor of History
since 1968. Prior to his appointment to the Brown University
faculty, Dr. Dupree was a Fellow of the Center for Advanced Study
in the Behavioral Sciences at Stanford, California, and previously
in the History Department of the University of California at
Berkeley. Author of Science in the Federal Government (1957) and
of a biography of Asa Gray (1959), Dr. Dupree is Secretary of the
American Academy of Arts and Sciences. During his six-month
appointment at the Museum, Dr. Dupree continued his research
on the history of premetric measurement, and served as an advisor
on the Museum’s plans for a new Hall of American Science.

In 1974 Dr. Robert P. Multhauf, former Director of the Museum
and presently Senior Scientific Scholar, was elected by the National
Academy of Sciences to chair the American delegation to the XIVth
International Congress of the History of Science held in Tokyo
and Kyoto, Japan, in August.

Seven Smithsonian fellows were appointed in the National
Museum of History and Technology during fiscal year 1975, and
developed research on various projects related to the Museum’s
interests. Among the predoctoral candidates, James A. Borchert
of the University of Maryland conducted research on American
mini-ghettoes, alleys, alley dwellings and alley dwellers in Wash-
ington during the period from 1850 to 1970. Mark Lindley of
Columbia University has been at work on organological aspects of
keyboard temperament, and Philip T. Rosen of Wayne State Uni-
versity conducted a study on the search for order: radio broadcast-
ing in the 1920s. The postdoctoral fellows included Stanley Gold-
berg of Harvard University who is conducting research on the
social character of science in Germany and America in the late
nineteenth and early twentieth centuries; Kenneth J. Hagan of
Claremont College who worked on American naval diplomacy
1845-1861; and Bernard Mergen of the University of Pennsylvania
whose work is on shipbuilding and shipbuilding labor 1917 to
1933. William J. Simon of the City University of New York devel-
oped a study of the Ferreira Expedition in Brazil and its contribu-
tions on the natural history of Brazil in the late eighteenth century.

A Committee on Academic Activities, under the chairmanship

212 / Smithsonian Year 1975

of Walter F. Cannon, has been established and is charged with
responsibility for developing the Museum’s Fellowship program
and plans for a variety of professional relationships, including
teaching activities by staff members in colleges and universities,
scheduling of seminars in the Museum, and staff exchange pro-
grams with other museums.

One of the most important academically related events was the
gift to the Museum of the Dibner Library of the History of Science
and Technology. This collection contains from 20,000 to 25,000
published works, including a great number of rare books, more
than 300 incunabula, and a large number of historic manuscripts
and letters of important scientists. Included also in the gift are
approximately 800 portraits in the form of prints and engravings,
as well as collections of science medals and scientific instruments
and apparatus.

The Dibner Library will be temporarily housed in a special
facility under construction on the Museum’s first floor, where it
will be used by visiting scholars and students and the Museum
staff. The Museum foresees future expansion of the Dibner Library
as other collections in specialized aspects in the history of science
and technology are acquired. The Dibner Library represents the
major holdings of the Burndy Library in Norwalk, Connecticut,
which will continue to function as a resource for study for the
Connecticut-New York region with a full collection of research
materials, consisting primarily of duplicates presently in the collec-
tion and copies of the more important materials transferred to the
Museum.

The core of the collection consists of the 200 books which were
epochal in the history of the physical and biological sciences, and
which proclaimed new truths or hypotheses which redirected
scientific thought, brought understanding of natural laws, and at
times introduced industrial change. Notable among the treasures
are a manuscript copy, circa 1385, of the Physics of Aristotle,
several manuscripts of Sir Isaac Newton’s including a quarto on
chemistry, and a large manuscript leaf of Darwin’s Origin of
Species, one of only ten that have survived. The copy of Coper-
nicus’s Narratio Prima (1540) sent by Rheticus to Schoener is
featured in the collection, as well as a copy of Pliny’s Historia
Naturalis (Venice 1469), which was the first book on science to

History and Art / 213
be printed. Among the treasures are also a manuscript of Cecco
d’Ascoli dated 1461 presenting his views on the natural history
of the world, an autograph letter from Galileo Galilei to Nicolas
Claude de Peiresc dated 1635 describing the invention of a mag-
netic water clock, and forty letters written by Michael Faraday.
Included also is the Armin Weiner Collection of more than 1000
manuscripts and correspondence of many of the world’s foremost
scientists, including Regiomontanus, Kepler, Boyle, Euler, Priestley,
Frauenhofer, Mach, and Planck. Featured is a collection of more
than 100 of Louis Pasteur’s own copies of his publications, numer-
ous autographed scientific notes and letters, and his laboratory
microscope.

The donor of the Library, Dr. Bern Dibner, founded the Burndy
Corporation in 1924 and the Burndy Library in 1936. He has long
been recognized as a leading collector of source material on the
history of science, and, as Director of the Burndy Library since its
founding, has patiently assembled the more than 40,000 works
which form its collections and which make it one of the largest
single collection of books in this subject field.

214 / Smithsonian Year 1975
Facing page:

Rembrandt Peale, Martha Washington
and George Washington, ca. 1853, oil
on canvas. Height: 36 inches; width: 29
inches. Gift of an anonymous donor to
the National Portrait Gallery.

Right:

Elisha Hammond, Frederick Douglass,
oil on canvas. Height: 26 inches;
width: 174 inches.

National Portrait Gallery.

National Portrait Gallery

The affairs of the National Portrait Gallery (npc) revolve around
acquisitions and exhibitions. Although the Gallery’s permanent
collection (which now includes more than 800 portraits) has grown
significantly since acquisitions were first actively pursued a decade
ago, the primary objective of the Gallery continues to be the
building of a collection worthy of this Nation’s history.

During the past year, sixty portraits came to the Gallery by gift
and purchase. Clearly the most important of the gifts were ‘‘port-
hole” portraits of George and Martha Washington (so-called be-
cause they were painted within trompe l'oeil architectural ovals)
by Rembrandt Peale, presented by an anonymous donor. Also
worthy of special mention are a pastel portrait of Gouverneur
Morris by James Sharples, given by Miss Ethel Turnbull; an oil
sketch of Cyrus McCormick by Charles Loring Elliott, the gift of
The Chauncey and Marion Deering McCormick Foundation and
Mrs. Anne B. Harrison; and a bust of William Lloyd Garrison by
Anne Whitney, presented by Lloyd Kirkham Garrison.

History and Art / 215
The most noteworthy acquisitions by purchase were portraits of
two great Chief Justices of the United States; a three-quarter-
length oil of John Jay, begun by Gilbert Stuart and finished by
John Trumbull; and a small, cabinet-size canvas of John Marshall
by William J. Hubard. The Gallery also acquired by purchase one
of only two known life portraits of Frederick Douglass. The por-
trait was painted in 1844 by Elisha Hammond, a member of a
utopian community in Florence, Massachusetts, visited by Douglass.
Extraordinarily evocative life masks of Helen Keller and her
teacher Ann Sullivan Macy, made in 1916 by the sculptor Onorio
Ruotolo, also were acquired by purchase.

The Gallery’s exhibition program focused primarily on the Bi-
centennial with two extensive displays, “In the Minds and Hearts
of the People, 1760-1774” and “‘The Dye is Now Cast, 1774-
1776,” each containing some 250 portraits and objects of other
kinds. Full-scale catalogues (of 240 and 344 pages, respectively)
accompanied each of these exhibitions, and materials specially in-
tended for secondary school students were prepared by the
Gallery’s Education Department. The Gallery also mounted a
special exhibition for the Archives of American Art entitled “From
Reliable Sources,” consisting of letters, documents, and photo-
graphs from the Archives’ collections. The 761 St.-Memin portrait
engravings given the Gallery last year by Mr. and Mrs. Paul
Mellon were installed in a gallery permanently set aside for the
collection. A number of small exhibitions were also mounted, in-
cluding one on John Brown and two devoted to the centennials of
the births of Herbert Hoover and Winston Churchill.

A replica by Gardner Cox of his portrait of Dean Acheson in the
State Department was presented to the Gallery by Secretary Ache-
son’s former law partners. Secretary of State Kissinger and
Averell Harriman were among the speakers on that occasion.

The long-anticipated work on the Papers of Charles Willson
Peale and his Family was begun this year under the editorship of
Dr. Lillian B. Miller and with an initial two-year grant from The
National Endowment for the Humanities.

Finally, through the generosity of an anonymous donor, the
Gallery acquired a British double-decker bus, which transports
visitors to the National Portrait Gallery from the front door of the
National Museum of History and Technology on the Mall, hourly,
seven days a week.

216 / Smithsonian Year 1975
Stuart Trumbull, John Jay, oil on canvas. Height: 5042 inches; width:
41¥/2 inches. National Portrait Gallery. Below: Secretary of State Henry
Kissinger addressing the guests on the occasion of the presentation of
Gardner Cox’s portrait of Dean Acheson to the National Portrait Gal-
lery, September 17, 1974. The portrait is the gift of Covington & Burling
to the Gallery.

Office of Academic Studies

The Office of Academic Studies, with policy direction of the Insti-
tution’s Board of Academic Studies, develops and administers
Smithsonian programs in higher education. These programs are
designed to provide a regular flow of ideas and information be-
tween the research faculty of the Institution and the international
academic community. Students at all postsecondary levels are
offered the opportunity to receive individual training and guidance
in the Smithsonian’s research centers.

Predoctoral and postdoctoral fellows are appointed to pursue
advanced research training in those scientific and _ scholarly
disciplines studied by the faculty of the Smithsonian. They bring
with them a provocative and stimulating enthusiasm, providing a
constant leaven in the intellectual life of the Institution. Pre-
doctoral fellows usually spend one year consulting the faculty
and collections while completing dissertations for the doctorate.
Postdoctoral fellows study closely with their advisors to expand
and strengthen their university training. During the year 1974—
1975, twenty-two predoctoral and twenty-three postdoctoral
fellowships were awarded to advance the Institution’s research
and the intellectual development of the fellows.

Graduate and undergraduate fellowships are awarded each year
to students who require an opportunity to spend two to three
months of directed research at the Institution. These shorter term
fellowships are awarded primarily to graduate students who have
not yet begun work on a dissertation. A period of consultation and
exposure to research methods allows students to comprehend the
broader discipline within which they are studying and to focus
their interests toward individual research projects. In 1974-1975,
seventeen students were awarded fellowships under this program.
Three of these students were supported under a grant from the
National Science Foundation.

An increasing number of colleges and universities recognize the
value of off-campus study at the undergraduate level. This recogni-
tion is most often given in the form of academic credit awarded at
the completion of a successful work project. Students conducting
such projects are able to learn fundamental principles of scholarly
and scientific disciplines while working under the direction of a
Smithsonian staff member. The mutual benefit of such an ex-

218 / Smithsonian Year 1975

periential education program attracts a growing number of students
each year. In 1974-1975, twenty students from across the country
studied under this Museum Study Program at the Smithsonian.

To complement these programs the Office of Academic Studies
attempts to assist other individuals who desire a shorter period
of study at the Institution. A Short-Term Visitor Program offers
modest financial support to visitors at all academic levels who wish
to consult staff members for a few days or weeks in the pursuit of
their research problems. By offering this modest support to supple-
ment the visitor’s own resources, this program provides many
opportunities for individuals to conduct necessary research at the
Institution. In 1974-1975, twenty-seven visitors were offered sup-
port under this program. Additionally, a Seminar Program offers
Smithsonian research faculty the opportunity to organize seminars
at the Institution. These seminars are designed to bring together
distinguished scientists and scholars and students from around the
world to discuss ideas and concepts of common interest. During
fiscal year 1975 two such seminars were supported. Dr. Olga
Linares conducted a seminar on Barro Colorado Island on the social
transition from hunting-gathering to agriculture in the tropics as
inferred from present-day replication experiments. The ten partici-
pants included two scientists from Venezuela and one from
Colombia. Dr. Richard Baumann, entomologist at the National
Museum of Natural History, organized and chaired The Fifth
International Symposium on Plecoptera. The thirty participants in-
cluded visitors from Germany, Canada, Norway, New Zealand,
Yugoslavia, India, and Japan.

In addition to Institution-wide programs in higher education
described above, the Office of Academic Studies frequently assists
in planning and administering programs developed by the research
bureaus of the Institution to meet their special needs, and offers
advice on a wide range of higher education matters.

A decade has passed since the inception of these formal educa-
tion programs. During this exciting formative period some 950
students have been appointed to study in the Institution’s research
centers. Many more have been supported for short-term research
and seminar participation. The impact of these students upon the
intellectual life here is evidenced by the continuing professional
relationships which have developed. Undergraduate and graduate
students have frequently returned to the Institution both formally

History and Art / 219
and informally. Many predoctoral and postdoctoral fellows have
established a close collaborative relationship with their Smithsonian
colleagues, often co-authoring papers with them and spending
extended periods of research at the Smithsonian. These on-going
collaborative efforts have assisted in the continuing expansion of
the Institution’s international network of scientific and scholarly
communications.

Office of American Studies

The American Studies Program continued its association with The
George Washington University, the University of Maryland, and
other institutions in the Washington area. Twenty-five graduate
students participated in the fall seminar in “Material Aspects of
American Civilization,” taught by the Director with the assistance
of Arthur Townsend, Executive Secretary of the Maryland Histor-
ical Trust, and Smithsonian staff members.

In the spring semester, twelve graduate students enrolled in the
seminar in “Vernacular Architecture of Colonial America” taught
by Smithsonian Research Associate Cary Carson, Coordinator of
Research and Architectural Historian of the St. Mary’s City Com-
mission; nine students enrolled in the seminar in “Early American
Decorative Arts” taught by Research Associate Patrick Butler;
seven students enrolled in “Studies in American Art and History”
taught by Lillian B. Miller, Smithsonian Historian and Editor of the
Charles Willson Peale Papers; and five students enrolled in “The
Art and Architecture of Washington, D. C., 1791-1929” taught by
Michael Richman of the National Trust for Historic Preservation.

As in past years, a Work-Study Program in Historical Archeol-
ogy, offered by the St. Mary’s City Commission in cooperation
with the American Studies Program of the Smithsonian Institution,
The George Washington University, and St. Mary’s College of
Maryland, was held from June 16 to August 22, 1975. In addition
to these formal seminars, supervision of individual reading and
research projects, thesis direction, and preparation of comprehen-
sive examinations were undertaken by the Director and cooperating
Smithsonian staff members.

220 / Smithsonian Year 1975
i

ates:
oy Sr pies a LET .

Students in Dr. Cary Carson’s American Studies Program class, “Material
Aspects of American Civilization: Vernacular Architecture,” taking measured
drawings of the Smithsonian Institution’s Belmont House during weekend
field trip, March 21-23, 1975.

The Director spent the month of February as Regents’ Lecturer
at the University of California, Riverside. While in California, he
presented a paper on “The Clash of Morality in the American
Forest’”” at a conference on “The First Images of America: The
Impact of the New World” at the 21st Annual Meeting of the
Renaissance Society of America which was held at the University
of California, Los Angeles.

History and Art / 221
The bronze portrait statue of Secretary Joseph Henry as it appeared about 1885, shortly
after it was erected in front of the west wing of the Smithsonian “Castle” in the Insti-

tution’s park. The Conservation-Analytical Laboratory is concerned with the problems
of combatting the deterioration of such statues.
Smithsonian Year * 1975

MUSEUM PROGRAMS

PAUL N. PERROT, ASSISTANT SECRETARY

Ir HAS BEEN A TEMPTING CLICHE in the last few years to refer to the
changing roles of museums and to suggest, by inference, that
somehow museums in the past, if they had not betrayed their con-
temporary public, at least had been woefully deficient in providing
a meaningful service to society. True, since World War II, museums
have gone through a period of tremendous growth. Their numbers
have proliferated, their audiences have doubled, redoubled, and
doubled again, and they have been called upon to provide new and
different services to the general public. They have become increas-
ingly aware of the key and unique role they can and indeed do
have within the educational fabric of society. Through increasingly
flexible programs they have been able to reach segments of our
population for whose forefathers museums were often unapproach-
able monuments. Increasingly, they have become vehicles in which
the self-motivated can explore new horizons, and refresh dim
memories of early school days. They now provide building blocks
for an understanding of new relationships between ideas, things,
phenomena, and facts. In the most meaningful sense, museums
have become the ideal vehicles for continuing education. They
create a milieu in which, with no other compulsion than curiosity
and delight, new meanings can be found for the commonplace
and where a constantly shifting society can somehow graft itself
to a historic continuum which bridges the centuries and spans
hemispheres.

Hence we can commend ourselves for the progress that museums
have made and the acceptance they are receiving from society, but

223
as we do so it is easy to overlook that unless museums continue to
be museums in the most traditional sense of the word their ability
to provide these other services will atrophy.

What then is a museum? In essence it is an institution which
collects and studies the tangible remains of the past, presents and
interprets them for the information and delectation of the present,
and conserves and transmits them for the future. If this definition
is accepted, it follows that the museum is above all an institution
concerned with the past whose primary relevance to the present is
that it makes the past come to life in such a way that the present
will leave a richer legacy for the future.

The capacity of the museum to transmit this legacy is predicated
on a variety of factors: (1) the manner in which it cares for its
collections; (2) the system it develops for their registration, for
assembling and cross-referencing the information that is either
contained in the objects or which has been accumulated about
them; (3) the care with which it houses them, researches their
material nature and develops the necessary conservation measures
designed to mitigate the unavoidable effects of time; (4) the re-
search and interpretive materials that bolster these investigative
processes, i.e., libraries and archives; and (5) the steps it takes to
present the collections in the most successful way so as to educate
the largest public to the importance of a past, which enriches the
present for the benefit of the future. .

It is to these more traditional, but indispensable, aspects of
museum management that the Office of Museum Programs is
dedicated.

In virtually all areas the task is monumental. The Smithsonian
has huge collections, virtually all of which are important not only
because they are good but because they are large—their variety
enables the scholar, in many cases, to study the varients and char-
acteristics which are key elements in developing scientific classifi-
cations, and in understanding stylistic evolutions. The larger the
collections, the greater are the problems of conservation, classi-
fication, retrieval, study, and storage and the larger the task for
those units that provide the tactical or logistic support.

Yet in their areas of prime concern, Office of Museum Program
units, in spite of budgetary leanness, have made progress. Fiscal
year 1975 was marked by improved cataloguing, ordering, and

224 / Smithsonian Year 1975
retrieval procedures in the Libraries. This has resulted in shrinking
a backlog accumulation of several years’ duration. A program was
developed to care more efficiently for rare books and plans were
made to house the scholarly rich and visually spectacular Dibner
Collection.

The Smithsonian Archives have developed plans to attain and
maintain intellectual control over the tremendous outpouring of
documents which must be retained for historical purposes. Oral
history has become part of the data-gathering arsenal and im-
portant personal insights have been gained by interviews of senior
Smithsonian personnel.

The Conservation-Analytical Laboratory, still facing thousands
of man-years of work, has been given additional, if still inadequate,
space, and has recruited actively additional conservators from the
very few that come into the profession annually. The foundations
are laid for smoother and more speedy output in 1976.

The Smithsonian Traveling Exhibition Service virtually doubled
in size and is readying about fifty new exhibitions a year in addition
to coordinating an important series of exhibitions being lent to the
United States under the “International Salute to the States” pro-
gram, funded by the American Revolution Bicentennial Admin-
istration. By 1976 over two hundred exhibitions of all kinds will
be in circulation to museums and other organizations throughout
the Nation and it is expected that the number and quality will con-
tinue to grow as demands and needs from all parts of the country
show no sign of abating.

The Office of Exhibits Central, after a time-consuming re-
organization, was consolidated in new facilities, without substantial
loss of productivity, and from its specialized facilities made major
contributions to the exhibit efforts of NMHT, NMNH, SITES, and
nearly all bureaus. The Motion Picture Unit again received awards
for the excellence of its productions.

The Office of Museum Programs strengthened its coordinating
and training capabilities by adding a highly experienced member to
its staff. Mrs. Jane Glaser, former Director of the Charleston (West
Virginia) Children’s Museum, was named Manager of Training
Activities. Under her direction the workshops on museum manage-
ment will be expanded, and special training programs will be de-
veloped, with emphasis on the special needs of the Indian com-

Museum Programs / 225
munity. This office will also serve as the focus for rendering
assistance to museum professionals who seek guidance and/or
training from the Institution. The long announced series of slide-
tape lectures on conservation practice were put successfully into
circulation and the finishing touches completed on over one-half
of the series of video-taped lectures on the chemistry of conserva-
tion by Dr. Robert Organ, Chief of the Conservation-Analytical
Laboratory.

A study on visitor orientation at NMHT, conducted by Dr. Gary H.
Winkel, of the City University of New York, with staff assistance,
was completed, and the first part of an analysis of The National
Museum of Natural History as a Behavioral Environment by staff
member Robert Lakota was readied.

The renovation of the Arts and Industries Building entered in its
decisive phase during the year. An extensive air-conditioning plant
was installed and work started on restoring the main halls to the
colorful, uncluttered appearance they had when the building opened
in 1871. Simultaneously the nmut staff completed the design of the
special exhibition commemorating the Philadelphia Centennial Ex-
position of 1876, and which is expected to open in the Arts and
Industries Building on May 10, 1976. Both the building and the
exhibition will give visitors a unique opportunity to gain an insight
into the boundless energy and happy exuberance which char-
acterized the Centennial and the following decades.

The well-known architect, Hugh Newell Jacobsen, was retained
as consultant for the aesthetic aspects of the renovation.

The National Museum Act administrative staff was reorganized
and new procedures developed to better serve a growing number of
applicants and grantees. The strengthened program in conservation,
research, and training was well received. As in years past, the num-
ber of applications found worthy of funding was considerably
larger than the funds available. The increasingly large numbers of
reports and research papers produced by grantees were examined
and, wherever this seems of use to the museum community, the
results will be issued in summary form. New and more explicit
guidelines were prepared to announce the 1976 grant programs.

From an administrative standpoint, a major and felicitous event
occurred in the Office of Museum Programs when Mr. William N.
Richards became Executive Assistant to the Assistant Secretary.

226 / Smithsonian Year 1975
Mr. Richard’s long experience in museum and governmental matters
as Director of the Bureau of Museums for the State of Pennsyl-
vania has, in the short time he has been with this office, already
proved invaluable, and his guidance has been especially helpful in
developing the revised procedures for the National Museum Act.

In the management of the activities reported on above and in
others, the Assistant Secretary for Museum Programs participated
actively. In addition, he served as the Institution’s designee on the
Advisory Council for Historic Preservation, as Vice President of
the American Association of Museums, Vice President of the Inter-
national Council on Museums, and Vice President of the Interna-
tional Centre for Conservation in Rome and United States Delegate
to its General Assembly.

Conservation-Analytical Laboratory

The activities of the Conservation-Analytical Laboratory (cAL) sup-
port conservation and research in many areas of the Smithsonian.
An average of thirty Divisions in any one year call on cat for
conservation and analytical services. This year these services have
been severely hampered by construction work in the Laboratory
and by delays in refining new computerized methods for more
expeditious usage.

A joint project with the Brookhaven National Laboratory has re-
solved a long-standing analytical difficulty in radiocarbon dating
from small samples.

Equipment for thermoluminescence dating of ceramics has been
acquired and a scientist is being sought to operate it.

A large variety of projects were carried out. A few examples
follow. For the National Museum of Natural History: A string
of eleventh-century a.p. marbled beads said to be from Mauritania,
was found to be made of pyroxene mineral when examined by
x-ray diffraction and other techniques.

For the National Museum of History and Technology: Mortar
from a brick cookstove of the privateer brigantine Defense, a war-
ship of the period 1776, was analyzed by microscopy and infrared
spectroscopy to determine its composition for comparison with
mortars found in other comparable ships.

Museum Programs / 227
Careful restoration is returning the interior of the Arts and Industries Building
to its original 1881 appearance, preparatory to the recreation of the Phila-
delphia Centennial as a Smithsonian exhibition celebrating the Bicentennial of
our Nation’s birth.

ee

fh “bt :
‘ ||
| « y

A

am)s

®

4

A major phase of the restoration work in the Arts and Industries Building is

go forward for the Bicentennial exhibition, “1876: A Cen-

tennial Exhibition,” which will be shown there.

completed as plans
Analytical studies of pottery from Spanish Colonial sites and of
medieval glass by neutron activation methods, evaluated by multi-
variate statistical analysis, are still in progress.

Activities in conservation have been numerous. Methods for the
cleaning and consolidation of the ceremonial mace of the House
of Representatives were recommended, and a considerable contribu-
tion was made toward the cleaning, polishing, and preparation of
over thirty bronze and marble sculptures for the opening of the
Hirshhorn Museum.

An imitation bronze plaster cast sculpture, donated in 1919 by
the Yugoslav artist Branko Oeskovic (1883-1939) to President
Woodrow Wilson, has been restored for the National Collection
of Fine Arts. As a good-will gesture, it is soon to be given by the
United States Government to the town in Yugoslavia where the
artist lived.

In collaboration with the Conservation Coordinators of the
National Museum of History and Technology and others, work is
continuing on innumerable objects—documents and furniture—for
their several Bicentennial exhibits.

National Museum Act Program

The National Museum Act, a specially funded grant program
administered by the Smithsonian Institution, is intended to provide
assistance to museums and their professional organizations, and
to colleges, universities, and institutions of higher learning who
wish to develop curricula in museum management or offer oppor-
tunities for professional enhancement. The Act also funds research
in museum management, conservation, exhibitions, and teaching
techniques which can enable museums to render more effective
service to the public and better protect that part of the national
heritage which is in their care.

Authorized in 1966, the Act was first funded in 1972. In 1975
it was reauthorized for another three years. Grant applications
from individuals or organizations are reviewed by an Advisory
Council consisting of museum professionals from various parts

230 / Smithsonian Year 1975
of the country and representing different aspects of the museum
field: art, science, history, education, conservation, and exhibition.

Council members in 1975 were:

William T. Alderson, Director,
American Association for State and Local History
Joseph M. Chamberlain, President, American Association
of Museums, and Director, The Adler Planetarium
W. D. Frankforter, Director, Grand Rapids Public Museum
Lloyd Hezekiah, Director, Brooklyn Children’s Museum
Philip S. Humphrey, Director,
Museum of Natural History, University of Kansas
Lawrence J. Majewski, Chairman, Conservation Center,
Institute of Fine Arts, New York University
Taizo Miake, Director of Programs, Ontario Science Center
Arminta Neal, Curator of Graphic Design,
Denver Museum of Natural History
Bonnie Louise Pitman, Curator of Education,
New Orleans Museum of Art
Barnes Riznik, Vice President for Museum Administration,
Old Sturbridge Village
Mitchell Wilder, Director, Amon Carter Museum of Western Art
Paul N. Perrot, Chairman, National Museum Act,
Assistant Secretary for Museum Programs, Smithsonian Institution

In 1975 available funding amounted to $802,000. A total of 149
applications were received, and the Advisory Council recommended
funding for 56. They are divided as follows:

The Travel/Exchange Program, intended to assist younger
museum professionals to broaden their knowledge of the museum
field by visiting other institutions and studying their methods: 16.

Stipend Support for Graduate/Professional Training and Fellow-
ships: 7.

Seminar/Workshop Training Program organized by professional
museums or history-related organizations in various communities
across the Nation: 15. These will be attended by approximately
1210 persons.

Special Studies and Research Program: 7.

Professional Assistance Program, which includes consultation
services and technical training, especially in conservation: 10.

Museum Programs / 231
In the second half of fiscal year 1975 the administrative structure
of the National Museum Act was reorganized and most operating
procedures were refined. This will result in more expeditious
handling of grant applications. New programs will be announced
in the Guidelines for fiscal year 1976, which will be distributed in
September 1975.

Office of Exhibits Central

More varied and more complete participation in the exhibition and
exhibit-related programs of its clients, more international awards
for its motion-picture productions, and the relocation and consoli-
dation of most of its shops highlighted fiscal year 1975 for the
Office of Exhibits Central (orc). Shops formerly located at the
24th Street facility and in the Natural History building are now
in full operation at the new Smithsonian Institution Service Center
at 1111 North Capitol Street. The move, efficiently planned and
executed in coordination with other Smithsonian staff, promises
greatly improved working conditions and increased productivity.
Early in fiscal year 1976 certain design staff will relocate from the
Arts and Industries building to the Service Center. The consolida-
tion of the Design and Production staffs will improve the super-
vision of personnel and the coordination of work in progress; the
consolidation of shop spaces, equipment, supplies, etc., will allow
more efficient and economical management.

The Exhibits Motion Picture Unit of the orc was awarded a Gold
Plague at the Chicago International Film Festival for its original
three-screen motion picture, “Survival Depends on Man’s Use of
the Earth,” produced for the National Museum of Natural History.
A 30-second television “spot,” developed by Karen Loveland,
Director of the Unit, for the Smithsonian Resident Associates re-
ceived a cLio award. The work of okc’s inhouse film unit has now
been recognized by thirteen awards for a variety of museum-
oriented film presentations.

The Editor’s Office of the orc received an award from the
National Museum of History and Technology for its efforts on the
exhibition “We the People.” This office had a most active year

232 / Smithsonian Year 1975
3 QNIVVANA N3HM__ dil 31S SiH

a ed

Bicentennial exhibition, “In the Minds and Hearts,” being crated for travel in
the United States. The original exhibition, at the National Portrait Gallery, was
translated into a traveling version by the Office of Exhibits Central Editorial
and Design Staff; then six copies were produced in orc shops. The exhibit is
being circulated by the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service.
The photo appeared in a special article on the bicentennial in U.S. News and
World Report and is reproduced here through its courtesy.

working on traveling exhibitions and the special exhibits associated
with the Festival of American Folklife. orc designers, Smithsonian
Institution Traveling Exhibition Service exhibit coordinators, and
cognizant curatorial staff cooperated on translating two exhibits
presented in Smithsonian galleries into traveling exhibitions to be
reproduced in multiple copies. These were “In the Minds and
Hearts,” a Bicentennial presentation of the National Portrait
Gallery, and “News Reporting,” a permanent exhibit at the
National Museum of History and Technology.

Museum Programs / 233
The Museum Lighting Unit, in addition to working on new in-
stallations and maintenance, participated in energy conservation
planning. Recommendations which included important modifica-
tions in architectural and exhibition lighting have resulted in con-
siderable energy savings and, in some instances, in improved
lighting effects.

Planning and preliminary production work for the Bicentennial
programs of several Smithsonian museums and offices were carried
out and this work will continue through fiscal year 1976. In 1975
the orc participated in 106 projects small and large, long range
and short. Programs completed in fiscal year 1975 in which the otc
contributed heavily included “In the Minds and Hearts” (npG/
siTEs), ““News Reporting” (NMuT/siTES), ““We the People” (NMuT),
“Ice-Age Mammals and the Emergence of Man” (nmnu), “Blacks
and the Westward Movement” (anm/siTEs), ‘“Zoo/100” (nzpP/
siTEs), “Pandas” (Nnzp), “Bicycles” (sites), and signs and learning
centers for the Festival of American Folklife. orc staff have also
participated in a successful series of workshops run by the Office
of Museum Programs and consulted with and for several govern-
ment and private museums and exhibiting organizations.

Office of Museum Programs

The Office of Museum Programs is primarily responsible for
coordinating a variety of activities relating to training in museum
management, disseminating information on conservation principles
and practices, and developing methods to assess the effectiveness
of the museum as a learning environment. To achieve these aims,
three distinct departments have been formed.

The Museum Workshop Series takes advantage of the unique
human resources of the various museums and research depart-
ments of the Institution. The training office coordinates lectures,
seminars, and workshops on various aspects of museum manage-
ment. This program, which has been in existence for a number of
years, has been reorganized in the past few months and will be
presenting more frequent and a larger choice of offerings. Under
the direction of Mrs. Jane R. Glaser, former Director of the

234 / Smithsonian Year 1975

Children’s Museum in Charleston, West Virginia, new subjects
will be introduced, and a special program will be developed to
meet the needs of special constituencies, and particularly to offer
training opportunities for the personnel of the various museums
and cultural centers which are now under development in Indian
communities.

This training department will also coordinate programs specially
tailored to the individual needs of foreign museum personnel who
wish to acquaint themselves with the methods in use at the Smith-
sonian Institution and at other museums in the United States.

The Conservation Information Program prepares, in cooperation
with the Smithsonian Institution Conservation-Analytical Labora-
tory, and with the assistance of other museum laboratories and
research organizations when required, video tapes and slide pro-
grams intended to demonstrate the basic principles of chemistry
that apply to conservation and up-to-date methods in the handling
of artifacts. Seventeen slide presentations, accompanied by taped
narrations, have been announced, and others are in various stages
of completion. These slide/tape presentations are available free-of-
charge to museums, historical societies, training and research
organizations throughout the United States and abroad. Editing
has been completed on a series of eighty video-taped lectures, a
half-hour to an hour in duration, presented by Dr. Robert M.
Organ, Chief of the Conservation-Analytical Laboratory. Copies of
these will be available in cassettes or reel-to-reel form. They
present a unique panorama of the basic principles of chemistry
and of conservation practice. The first twenty are now being
distributed, and it is expected that the entire series will be available
by the fall of 1975.

A constant riddle to museum directors and their senior staffs
has been the evaluation of exhibits and their effectiveness with the
visiting public. The fact that museums are key elements in the
learning apparatus of an enlightened citizenry is no longer ques-
tioned, but there is still much uncertainty concerning the quantifi-
cation of their effectiveness. Museums are experimenting with a
wide variety of new exhibition techniques. These often combine
sound, moving images, push buttons, and various other devices
intended to attract the attention of the visitor and, in many cases,
physically engage him in an interactive mode. How these new

Museum Programs / 235
“Tray Mo

}
CVA ELAINE

\

: iS ZVILEHTLE ZEEE LL) UZ

Gita LCA
BL TL ah Ah. a fthilogy, Of

The story told by the letters on this and the facing page is indicative of a
growing nationwide interest in and support of the Smithsonian. The concern
and generosity of these children at Onate Elementary School, Albuquerque,
New Mexico, gives encouragement to the Institution as it attempts to carry
out its many programs.

techniques add to the learning quotient, and which are most effec-
tive in transmitting information, is still a matter of considerable
puzzlement.

In an attempt to provide museum administrators with more
precise information upon which to base their decisions, the Office
of Museum Programs has embarked on a multi-year psychological
study of “The Museum as a Learning Environment.” A small
resident staff of professionals and para-professionals has been
supplemented by expert consultants who have cooperated in
developing new testing methods. Professor Chandler Screven, of
the University of Wisconsin, Milwaukee, completed a study on
the effectiveness of various audio devices in enriching the contents
of what was an entirely visual presentation. The results of his

236 / Smithsonian Year 1975
SS —y ’
of = y Sa ae grr te Med phe dl
a oc y;) 4
Ce dA oe oe, SL: R eres JIL 2 Ton
fA Aan Aly sua GO tO
KR LE yates ee YE ee art Be
ritan. dn hilitieR__ | 2 see anette
Ae Vy Sag tl 9 olor pe ys
Tower cok Ti. warmed (OTe
pro L- ees VILL, Tih fae” gorda
Fecumee ee WVIEZiYawy >
Gn é

Yue

oe Avs ee

Ss

Pertie, apol offwe gv
/ di ‘ 4
AES eee ag hs Liaw fear.
tu, hepynled . oe Tit Scilla >: u Lhe,
CQ STW Te te, Hii G
bind kop Gone Ee 900 ,

A aM,
ATL DLE CA Gace O<t2
ao UNaN 2. Vtopeed , oF mae

Fahy FL GN
experiments with “The Glass of Frederick Carder” exhibition at
the Renwick Gallery are soon to be published in a professional
journal. His major monograph, The Measurement and Facilitation
of Learning in the Museum Environment: An Experimental
Analysis, announced in 1974, will be printed and available for dis-
tribution in early October 1975.

Dr. Gary H. Winkel, Associate Professor, Environmental Psy-
chology Program, City University of New York, was retained as a
special consultant to study the visitor flow and orientation patterns
at the National Museum of History and Technology. His study,
completed in June 1975, will be carefully analyzed prior to the
introduction of new orientation devices at the National Museum
of History and Technology. Other studies conducted in the last
few months are attempting to gauge the effectiveness of nonuni-
formed attendants in providing information and security in an art
museum environment. Studies of Visitor Behavior in Museums and
Exhibitions: An Annotated Bibliography of Sources Primarily in
the English Language, by Dr. Ross J. Loomis, of the University of
Colorado, and Miss Pamala Elliott, was also completed.

Office of the Registrar

Registration is an important aspect of the overall care and docu-
mentation of the national collections. Each museum within the
Smithsonian complex has, or is developing its own registration capa-
bility, responsive to the peculiar needs of that bureau. The Central
Registrar and the Council of Registrars provide coordination of
registration activities. The Council also provides a forum for pro-
fessional discussion.

During 1975, the Office of the Registrar focused its attention on
the information management aspect of collections management on
the Institutional level. Special attention was given to problems of
development of Institution-wide information systems for access to
the national collections. As each museum develops its registration
and cataloguing information system, an Institutional system must
emerge which provides information on related specimens wherever
they may exist within the Smithsonian. Development of off-Mall

238 / Smithsonian Year 1975
buildings for care of specimens emphasizes the requirements for
coordinated registration systems. Beyond this lies the potential for
intermuseum computer networks.

A major information management effort by the Registrar’s Office
began in the summer of 1975. A study of existing information
systems, computerized and manual, was undertaken as a pilot
project to test application of information science techniques to
the Smithsonian on an Institutional level. A report resulting from
this study will be submitted to the Assistant Secretary for
Museum Programs during fiscal year 1976.

Meanwhile, the Office of the Registrar continued its traditional
function of registrar for the National Museum of History and
Technology and the National Museum of Natural History. More
than 2400 accession and 4500 transactions, involving the movement
of about 550,000 specimens or objects, were processed during fiscal
year 1975. The Shipping Office dispatched and received shipments
for NMNH and nMut and for several other bureaus as well.

The Council of Registrars met regularly during fiscal year
1975. Major topics included: insurance, packing, security during
exhibits, intra-Smithsonian movement of objects, cataloguing pro-
cedures throughout the Smithsonian, decentralization of the
Central Registrar’s Office, computerization of registration processes
in several Smithsonian bureaus, development of forms, and Silver
Hill and other storage facilities.

The Council also reevaluated its own functions and objectives,
with the result that its members now have a better sense of the
common goals to be pursued to improve registration at the
Smithsonian.

Smithsonian Institution Archives

During fiscal year 1975 the Smithsonian Archives continued its
effort to gain intellectual control of archives spread throughout
the Institution. Work on the archives of natural history continued
as did work with records of the National Museum of History and
Technology. The computer index, which gives name and subject
access to all processed collections in the Archives and to some

Museum Programs / 239
materials that have remained in the National Museum of Natural
History, was completed.

A major effort was made to establish archival programs for the
Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory and the National Collec-
tion of Fine Arts. Two archivists spent a week at the Astrophysical
Observatory in December surveying records, and a large accession
from that bureau resulted. In addition, researchers from the
National Aeronautics and Space Administration are finding old
Astrophysical Observatory data, housed in the Archives, valuable
for their current atmospheric research. Records of the National
Collection of Fine Arts are being processed and serviced by
Archives staff, but are remaining in the custody of the National
Collection of Fine Arts.

The Archives’ Oral History program was continued through a
series of interviews with distinguished curators on the staff of the
National Museum of Natural History. During fiscal year 1975 the
program concentrated on documenting the history of the National
Museum of Natural History.

Arrangement and microfilming of the accession records
continued.

Smithsonian Institution Libraries

Nineteen hundred and seventy-five was notable because of the sig-
nificant increase in the Libraries’ staff. Priority in new personnel
assignments was placed upon on-site service to users. New posi-
tions were added to the bureau libraries in the National Air and
Space Museum, the National Museum of History and Technology,
and to the teams that serve the National Museum of Natural
History, the Radiation Biology Laboratory, and the National
Zoological Park. The key positions of bureau librarians for the
National Museum of Natural History and the Cooper-Hewitt
Museum were established, and the Libraries assumed responsi-
bility for funding the personnel assigned to the Smithsonian
Tropical Research Institute library. The creation of the rare book
cataloguing and the hand binding positions testify to the im-
portance of collection preservation and management as a vital
library service.

240 / Smithsonian Year 1975
This increase in staff size, and the concomitant growth of service
responsibilities and funding for collection development heightened
the need to attend to management issues. Implementation of the
recommendations of the Management Review and Analysis Pro-
gram (mMrRap), begun in the preceding year, continued, under the
watchful eye of an Implementation Assessment Group composed
of Libraries’ staff members. Special studies were conducted of the
Libraries Technical Services operation, and a survey of users’
services was begun. The Libraries’ experiences continued to be
shared with several other major research libraries undergoing the
MRAP process, chiefly through seminars and lectures given by
Dr. Elaine Sloan, chairperson of the team that conducted the
Smithsonian’s study. The Libraries also conducted a one-day work-
shop in cooperation with the Consortium of Universities in
Washington and the Association of Research Libraries Office of
Management Studies on the issues and problems of implementation
of management change. In addition, the Director was appointed to
the Management Commission of the Association of Research
Libraries under whose aegis MRAP was developed. As part of the
implementation process, the Administrative Conference of the
Libraries, composed of the managers of library units and Libraries’
administrative staff, met at regular intervals to exchange informa-
tion and to discuss management and operational concerns. A
program was established to document policies and procedures for
library management.

For the first time the Libraries were funded sufficiently well to
establish a base for a continuing budget for the acquisition of
library materials, although the gains were somewhat muted by the
severe inflation of book prices. The most significant event in
collection development, however, was the acquisition by gift of
the major titles in the Burndy Library devoted to the history of
science and technology. The collections in this noted research
library have been gathered by Dr. Bern Dibner, a manufacturer of
electrical products in Norwalk, Connecticut. The Dibner collection
matches precisely the programs of research in the National
Museum of History and Technology and will be housed in that
bureau. Mr. William Leugoud was recruited from the staff of the
Rare Books Department of the Library of Congress to be the
librarian of the collection. The Libraries received other important

Museum Programs / 241
gifts from Smithsonian staff members and other friends, many of
which are listed in Appendix 13.

The experiment in cooperative cataloguing with other federal
libraries, spearheaded by the Smithsonian Institution last year, was
extended for a second year. Approximately 65 percent of the titles
catalogued for the Libraries were processed through this system,
which is based on computer facilities and machine-readable biblio-
graphic records at the Ohio College Library Center (octc) in
Columbus. By year’s end twenty-eight federal libraries with thirty-
six computer terminals were joined in the network. An evaluation
of the experiment, conducted for the Federal Library Committee,
clearly indicates that the octc system does decrease the rate of
rise of the cost of processing library materials, and that preorder
searching for bibliographic information and the location of titles
for interlibrary loan are important byproducts of the system. A
small group of federal libraries, including the Smithsonian Institu-
tion, has begun to examine additional products that might be
obtained through cooperation in automation.

The Libraries’ contribution to the library profession included in-
volvement of the staff in local, national, and international activities.
Catherine Scott continued her service as a member of the National
Commission on Libraries and Information Science. The Commis-
sion’s program statement for national library information service
was completed during the year. The Director represented the
Smithsonian Institution as an observer at the unesco Conference
on national planning of library, archive, and documentation serv-
ice in Paris. The Smithsonian Institution held a reception for the
nearly 1000 delegates of the International Federation of Library
Associations at its first United States meeting. The National Copy-
right Conference, convened by the Register of Copyrights and the
Chairman of the National Commission on Libraries and Informa-
tion Science, met twice at the Smithsonian Institution as pub-
lishers and librarians attempted to resolve issues raised by the
proposed copyright law revision. The Director was elected to the
Board of Directors of the Association of Research Libraries and the
Executive Board of the American Library Association, and assumed
the office of President of the United States Book Exchange of which
the Institution is a sponsoring member. Dr. Elaine Sloan served
as a consultant to the American Library Association’s Collection

242 / Smithsonian Year 1975
Development Committee and as a member of a joint American
Library Association/Association of American Publishers Task
Force on the Selection of Library Materials. William Walker be-
came National Chairman of the Art Library Society of North
America and served as program chairman for the Society’s annual
conference in Washington, D. C. Jack Goodwin was Chairman-
Elect of the Museum, Arts and Humanities Division of the Special
Libraries Association, and editor of the Division’s Bulletin.

Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service

Major expansion characterized the twenty-third year of the
Smithsonian Traveling Exhibition Service’s (sires) program. New
services were made possible by Bicentennial funds awarded by
Congress and by the American Revolution Bicentennial Adminis-
tration. These funds, together with income from rental fees, grants,
and contracts, have:

1. Developed a department for the coordination of Bicentennial
Exhibitions drawn from the Smithsonian and other United States
sources.

2. Initiated an ‘International Salute to the States” program of
exceptional exhibitions loaned by other nations to honor our 200th
birthday as a republic.

These two additions have greatly enriched sites’ diverse offerings
of science, history, and art exhibitions; doubled the number of its
staff; and greatly increased sites’ ability to serve an ever-growing
constituency.

The planning of a program to interpret sites’ exhibitions was
completed this year. Two full-time, and two part-time program
coordinators, and three interns are now assisting exhibitors of
sites shows in making the viewing experience more meaningful to
their visitors. The programs take many forms and vary from small
give-away brochures, to grant-assisted lecturers. These efforts
have helped in keeping sites focused on the needs of their
audiences.

A new format was developed to improve the usefulness of the
reports received in Washington from exhibitors. The comments on

Museum Programs / 243
tt ci ae |

: peommeneses “tr
e * -*

“Ride On!” The bicycle exhibit was viewed for the first time at the First Na-
tional City Bank of New York, December 16, 1974, to January 12, 1975. “Ride
On!” was made possible by a grant to sires from the Charles E. Merrill Trust.

exhibition quality and the summaries of interpretive programs
undertaken by borrowers, as well as their audience-building efforts,
provide a base for determining future directions for sITES

Fiscal and administrative systems were improved. siTEs’ registrar
was joined by an assistant to cope with ever-enlarging responsi-
bilities. An audit by the Smithsonian’s Office of Audits produced a
more consistent method for determining exhibition rental fees.

Staff travel to important museum meetings and in the develop-
ment of shows continued. A workshop on the circulation of exhibi-
tions was sponsored by sites at the annual meeting of the American

244 / Smithsonian Year 1975

Dr. Henry E. Wenden lectures on coverlets at the University of Cincinnati
in December. “American Coverlets” is the prototype for siTES’ information
core shows—shows that are expressly designed for the addition of local arti-
facts. sites will produce no less than fifty exhibitions for the Bicentennial,
several in multiple copies.

Association of State and Local History. sites’ representatives at
several regional meetings and at the national meeting of the
American Association of Museums gained important insights of
the concerns of museums and galleries. Staff members traveled to
Yugoslavia, Italy, Austria, Norway, Finland, Sweden, Denmark,
Great Britain, Egypt, Cyprus, and Australia to work on the devel-
opment of new shows originating in those countries. Most foreign
trips were taken to implement the “International Salute to the
States” program announced to Washington’s diplomatic corps at
a reception in the Smithsonian Building’s Great Hall in October.

Museum Programs / 245
At year’s end, six exhibitions in this program were committed for
tours beginning in 1976. Twenty additional nations are participat-
ing in negotiations that will most likely result in tours of other
unique shows created for United States audiences.

sites’ plan to place fifty exhibitions relating to the Bicentennial
(many in several copies) on tour made great progress. It appears
that this number will be exceeded.

There are two types of Bicentennial exhibition: (1) those that
contain original objects and (2) panel shows. Exhibitions with
original objects are made up and borrowed for tour from the
Smithsonian, other United States lenders, and from collections in
other countries. Panel exhibitions are of two types: (1) those that
stand alone—without the addition of artifacts (e.g., ‘Blacks in the
Westward Movement,” beginning its tour this year); and (2) the
so-called “information core” exhibitions—shows that prompt ex-
hibiting institutions to add objects from collections in their area,
thus providing a conceptual framework which can be fleshed out
from local resources. Information core exhibitions (e.g., “Suiting
Everyone,” beginning its tour this year) are a new dimension in the
travel of shows. They save transportation costs and begin a new
era of cooperation between the Smithsonian and museums through-
out the United States.

Year-End Totals

NumberxofeBookingst 27% saat. wiyarries.. 8. eae 498
Numibervof States’ Served’ aa 0:48..4n yy pace Gen eee 45
Estimated. Audiencety dve.3. ontnt A ae ue ee ee 3,984,000
Institutions Receiving Data on Show Availability ....... 3,700
Exhibitions (including copies) listed in last UPDATE

(catalogue /of sires exhibitions) 5.5 44g 08 ane 199
Exhibitions Produced for Tour During the Year ........ 53
Exhibitions Refurbished for Extended Tour ............ 4

Exhibitions Beginning Tours in Fiscal Year 1975

American Dolls

Australia Goes Metric

The Black Presence in the Era of the American Revolution,
1770-1800 (6 copies)

Blacks in the Westward Movement (5 copies)

Contemporary Textile Art from Austria

246 / Smithsonian Year 1975
Delacroix and the French Romantic Print

Edwin Janss, Jr., Underwater Photography

Egyptian Tapestries from the Workshop of Ramses Wissa Wassef,
an Experiment in Creativity

Folk Baroque in Mexico: Mestizo Architecture Through the Centuries

Graphics by Rolf Nesch

In the Minds and Hearts of the People: Prologue to the
American Revolution, 1760-1774 (6 copies)

Jack Tar: Profiles of American Merchant Seafarers, 1794-1803 (3 copies)

Lion Rugs from Fars

The Magnificent West: American Heritage (2 copies)

Manuscripts of the American Revolution (5 copies)

New Zealand: A Nation’s History in Stamps

Population: The Problem Is Us (4 copies)

The Poster in Puerto Rico

Revival!

Ride On! The Bicycle Exhibit (original version with artifacts)

Ride On! The Bicycle Exhibit (3 copies)

Stephen Parrish: 19th-Century Picturesque

Suiting Everyone (5 copies)

Zoo/100

Exhibitions Refurbished for Extended Tours
Indian Images (2 copies)

Story of a Goblet
Victorian Needlework

Museum Programs / 247
Mr. Joseph H. Hirshhorn being interviewed by WITG’s Channel 5 newscaster Maury
Povich (left) and Frank Getlein (right), art critic of the Washington Star.

Smithsonian Year * 1975

PUBLIC SERVICE

JULIAN T. EUELL, ASSISTANT SECRETARY

Over the past year the activities of the Smithsonian’s public service
bureaus reached out to an unprecedentedly numerous and far-flung
audience. In terms of statistics, several of our programs were im-
mensely successful. By the end of the year, however, the Assistant
Secretary for Public Service and his staff were engaged in a careful
reassessment of where these successes were leading us in terms of
the Smithsonian mandate for the diffusion of knowledge, and to
what extent the Public Service bureaus were equipped and organized
to sustain such a level of activity. The experience gained from this
first year of the popular Smithsonian Television Specials, profes-
sionally produced and presented on prime time with the backing of
a major sponsor, revealed to us clearly the extent to which ““knowl-
edge” must be diluted in favor of “entertainment” to make it ap-
pealing to the millions of viewers whom sponsors and networks
require to justify their major investments in time and money. The
three programs presented fulfilled these requirements. The first
Smithsonian Special drew the highest audience rating ever achieved
by a television “documentary”—over 50 million viewers—and the
second and third programs maintained gratifyingly high appeal by
commercial television standards.

Many Smithsonian curators and staff members, however, were
disturbed over the content of the shows—feeling that they did little
to inform or educate their audiences as to what the Smithsonian
was really about. Similarly, it was found necessary during the year
to make a thorough reappraisal of some of the highly popular

249
Resident Associates’ offerings, and to refocus the lecture programs,
in particular, away from the purely popular and toward topics
more directly relevant to Smithsonian collections and interests.

In the same context, the Secretary has asked the Assistant Secre-
tary for Public Service and the Director of the Division of Per-
forming Arts to consider carefully the post-Bicentennial future of
our very popular summer Folklife Festival on the Mall, which will
reach a crescendo in popular appeal with the elaborate eight to
twelve weeks of presentations during the summer of 1976. These
folklife programs are carefully and academically researched and
designed by the Division of Performing Arts staff to deliver a
thoughtful, cultural message, but again there is legitimate concern
that the majority of the people who attend them regard them
primarily as free public entertainment, and perhaps absorb little
of the “knowledge” they are planned to convey.

The educational efforts of other public service bureaus have been
more fruitful in a less sensational way. The central Office of Ele-
mentary and Secondary Education has made great strides forward
this year in bringing the educational value of Smithsonian exhibits
and collections to the attention of teachers throughout the greater
Washington area through well-attended workshops and a strong
publication program. The Resident Associate Program has devel-
oped an adult education effort which has become a model for
universities and colleges in the area. Over 7778 participants were
enrolled in Resident Associates’ classes, workshops, and seminars
during the year. The Smithsonian Visitor Information and Asso-
ciates’ Reception Center continues to improve our ability to pro-
vide invaluable guidance to the millions of visitors to our museums
and galleries, thanks to capable staff direction and the dedication
of the 250 volunteers who participate in the program.

Construction of the Anacostia Neighborhood Museum’s Ex-
hibits and Design Laboratory building was completed during the
year and it will open in the fall of 1975. The Anacostia staff
focused on equipping and staffing the Laboratory in order to pre-
pare for the museum’s exhibit needs in its Bicentennial program,
which includes developing and conducting a Ford Foundation-
sponsored design and exhibits training program for minority young
people. The Anacostia Neighborhood Museum also scored a major
popular success during the early months of 1975 with the exhibit

250 / Smithsonian Year 1975

entitled “Blacks in the Westward Movement.” The success of this
exhibit too gave pause for thought. Is it appropriate for the Smith-
sonian Institution, as our national museum complex, to continue a
museum operation, essentially focused on one local community,
when public interest is so clearly responsive to far broader exami-
nations of the national experience of American racial and ethnic
minority groups?

Continuing deficits on the trade book side of the Smithsonian’s
publishing efforts stimulated the Publications Review Board to
recommend to the Secretary early in 1975 a careful survey of pub-
lishing operations at the Smithsonian by a very reputable firm of
management consultants. The consultants’ report, in turn, gen-
erated a major reappraisal of the Smithsonian’s publishing effort,
including a reorganization of the Smithsonian Institution Press,
itself. A major decision taken by Secretary Ripley toward the end of
fiscal year 1975 was to terminate, for the present, private-side pub-
lishing, and to confine the work of the Press to publication of fed-
erally funded series and nonseries manuscripts produced or directly
sponsored by a Smithsonian museum or gallery. This policy will
be adhered to pending appointment of a new Publications Director-
Coordinator with substantially broadened responsibilities.

In sum, fiscal year 1975 has been a year of success and of experi-
ment and appraisal in the public service area. We have walked in
the bright glare of the popular spotlight, and learned the price
for the applause of a huge, but not necessarily discriminating
audience. In the coming year we must draw on this experience to
determine what manner and what level of public appeal best fulfills
the Smithsonian mandate for the diffusion of knowledge.

Anacostia Neighborhood Museum

Anacostia Neighborhood Museum on September 15, 1975, will
have completed eight years of service, education, and special pro-
gramming for the Anacostia community. In that time span, this
museum, which began as a “store-front’’ operation in the com-
munity of Anacostia with particular emphasis on neighborhood in-
volvement and on the history and culture of its immediate environs,

Public Service / 251
has grown into a nationally recognized center of black history and
culture. Indeed, visitors have come from art communities in Africa
and Europe to learn more about this unique center.

Over thirty-five major exhibitions have been produced by the
Anacostia Neighborhood Museum since its inception. The variety
of these shows is typified by the five exhibits produced this past
year.

The first was an exhibition of over one hundred pieces of art in
various media, including oil, watercolor, silk screen, etching,
ceramics, stitchery, clay, and papier mache, by students in the
elementary, junior, and senior high schools of the District of
Columbia. For most of the participants, it was the first time their
work had been displayed. The next exhibition, ““The Message
Makers,” concerned the communication media—television, radio,
newspaper, and film. It examined the decision-making process uti-
lized by the media in determining the selection of a message and
in its influence on the lives of people in general, and black people in
particular.

The fifth annual exhibition of works by members of the D.C. Art
Association was presented in November. These art exhibitions not
only celebrate the creative efforts of members of the Washington
community but also encourage young artists who view the exhibi-
tion. With this in mind, the last exhibit this fiscal year was “East
Bank Artists,” a display of work by student, nonprofessional, and
professional artists living east of the Anacostia River. Many of the
sixty participating artists, representing a wide variety of talent and
background, were exhibiting in a public museum for the first time.

In celebration of this year’s Black History Week, the Museum
opened its first Bicentennial exhibition, ‘Blacks in the Westward
Movement.” This exhibition tells the story of the blacks who ex-
plored, conquered, and settled the western portion of America, a
story of interest to every citizen of the United States, but one that
has long been neglected. Five copies of this rich and colorful ex-
hibit are traveling throughout the United States under the auspices
of the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service. Three
other Bicentennial exhibitions: ““The Frederick Douglass Years,”
a traveling show only; “The Black Woman,” to open at the Museum
in January 1976; and “The Anacostia Story,” to open at the
Museum in July 1976, will also be traveling throughout the Nation
under the auspices of sITEs.

252 / Smithsonian Year 1975
John Kinard, Director of the Anacostia Neighborhood Museum, gives a talk for visiting
members of the international museum community. Below: Mr. Kinard greets visitors
from Togo. Shown (from left) are Kikou Mathias Aithnard, Director of Culture and
Scientific Research; William Adojyi, Cultural Attache, Togo Embassy; Agbenowossi
Kodjo Koffi, Minister of Youth, Sports, Culture and Scientific Research. The Togolese
officials were interested in the role of the Smithsonian in the cultural life of the United
States and Washington, particularly in seeing how the neighborhood museum works
with young people.

Roy Slade, Director of the Corcoran Gallery of Art, and Peggy Cooper, founder
of Workshops for Careers in the Arts-High School for the Arts, look over a
work of art they are judging for the Anacostia Neighborhood Museum’s D.C.
Art Association Exhibition 1974-1975.

During fiscal year 1975 nearly 70,000 persons visited or were
served by the Museum and its Mobile Unit. Most of these were
either scheduled tour groups or participants in the education
department’s sponsored programs and activities, but many were
scholars, museologists, and representatives of organizations such
as the International Council of Museums, Congressional Wives, and
Resident Associates. Highlights of these sponsored programs
included the arrival of Santa Claus in Anacostia, witnessed by over
3000 children, and the eighth annual Young People’s Festival of
the Arts, a program that included performances by local school
groups as well as by the United States Navy Band-Port Authority,
the Howard University Children’s Theatre, the Dance Project, and
Jones-Haywood School of Ballet.

An exciting cultural achievement this year was the creation of
the Anacostia Historical Society. With a membership of 140 con-

254 / Smithsonian Year 1975

cerned citizens, the Society is interested in promoting community
pride through the study and appreciation of Anacostia’s history.

In the coming year Anacostia Neighborhood Museum looks
forward to producing its Bicentennial exhibitions in the new Ex-
hibits Design and Production Laboratory to be opened in the fall
of 1975.

Division of Performing Arts

Carrying out the Institution’s role as cultural conservator, the
Division of Performing Arts is responsible for planning, producing,
and presenting performing arts events, with an emphasis on pro-
grams that relate to and enhance the Institution’s collections.

The Division has achieved national outreach and international
participation with several of its programs: the eighth annual Festival
of American Folklife, the Smithsonian Collection of Classic Jazz,
and an extensive winter concert program. In addition, the Division
of Performing Arts shares the American experience in its many
creative forms with people across the Nation through touring per-
formances of its concert series, and tours of ethnic performers
from the Festival.

The winter concerts, organized around nine different series, made
a statement about musical diversity. Jazz, Chamber Music, Ameri-
can Popular Song, and Women in Country Music were some of the
themes. The cultural contributions of a number of leading Ameri-
can artists were honored at Smithsonian presentations including
Dizzy Gillespie, John Raitt, Jan DeGaetani, Margaret Whiting,
Randy Weston, and Maybelle Carter. The Jazz Heritage concert
series and free public workshops, offered for the third year under
the direction of Martin Williams, continued at the Baird Audi-
torium; a new Jazz Connoisseur series was added at the Hall of
Musical Instruments. A new series of contemporary music inaugu-
rated the auditorium of the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture
Garden. “Man and His Culture,” a new series at the Museum of
Natural History, presented Malaysians, Sri Lankans, and Japanese
in performances related to the anthropological collections. With
the Division of Musical Instruments, a dozen events featured rarely

Public Service / 255
A Scandanavian broom dance in the Old Ways in the New World area was a featured
presentation at the Festival of American Folklife. Below: Calf-herding techniques were
also a lively part of the Mississippi presentation at the Festival.

es

KS Be

performed music played on original instruments from one of the
world’s largest collections. More than 15,000 persons attended the
more than fifty-five events offered.

The Touring Performance Service during the 1974-1975 season
sent fifty-four performances of folk music, puppets, and theater on
tour to twenty-one cities in twelve states. The Smithsonian Resi-
dent Puppet Theatre attracted 3000 people to the premiere of ‘The
Book of Three” as well as 3000 to a new musical version of the
classic Treasure Island.

Enlivening the mall area, the Division continued to operate an
old-time popcorn machine and an authentic carousel.

Celebrating the cultural vitality of America’s traditional culture,
the Division presents the annual Festival of American Folklife. The
1974 Festival brought 900 performers from Tunisia, Greece, Ni-
geria, Trinidad, Norway, Sweden, and Finland, fifteen Indian tribes,
nine unions and organizations representing ‘“Workers in Com-
munications,” and the state of Mississippi. More than one million
visitors attended the ten-day Festival, co-presented by the Na-
tional Park Service.

Office of Elementary and Secondary Education

The Office of Elementary and Secondary Education (OESE) is
charged with giving assistance, upon request, to the education
offices of the various Smithsonian museums and public service
bureaus.

A primary responsibility of oEsE is to encourage cooperation
and exchange of information among the Smithsonian education
offices and between those offices and the District of Columbia area
schools. Toward this end, a number of efforts are currently under-
way. Two publications—a monthly newsletter, Let’s Go, and an
annual brochure, Learning Opportunities for Schools—inform
teachers of Smithsonian programs and other activities of interest to
young people and contain suggestions for using museums as edu-
cational resources. The publications are sent free of charge to over
1300 area schools. In addition, an annual ““Teacher’s Day” brings
teachers and education staff members together for an informal

Public Service / 257
program of conversation and special activities. In 1975, more than
seventy Washington-area educators took part in this event, which
featured a preview of Smithsonian Bicentennial plans and a walking
tour of the Mall.

Teachers are reached also through an ogse workshop and seminar
program, now in its fourth year. During fiscal year 1975, a total of
2200 teachers participated in seventy workshops and seminars, in-
cluding a summer (1974) course enabling the development of cur-
riculum units, based on Smithsonian resources, for use in the
school classroom. Among the diverse projects in art, history, and
science that resulted from the course was a unit on Colonial Life,
developed by a fourth-grade teacher from Montgomery County
Public Schools. Through visits to period rooms in the National
Museum of History and Technology and a variety of home and
classroom activities—such as washing and carding wool and
making old-fashioned gingerbread and sassafrass tea—students
taking part in the unit were able to discover at first hand some
of the hardships and pleasures of colonial living. The culminating
activity was a “Colonial Day” festival, for which the youngsters,
dressed in period costumes, shared the results of their labors with
their schoolmates.

In fiscal 1976, an increasingly varied selection of teacher train-
ing and orientation programs will be offered, including a special
Bicentennial series, ““Tuesdays at the Smithsonian,” a seminar on
museum teaching methods; and a three-week in-service course
sponsored in cooperation with the Fairfax County Park Authority
and the Fairfax County Public Schools.

For the past five years, a learning-service experience for teenage
volunteers has been provided through the oese ““Summer Info Pro-
gram.” In 1974, twenty-seven Washington-area high school stu-
dents, selected and trained by okse, conducted visitors through the
National Air and Space Museum and the National Museum of His-
tory and Technology.

In June, July, and August 1975, a pilot program for summer
interns, sponsored by oes, will carry the Info idea a step farther.
Twenty-one promising high school seniors from rural and inner-
city communities as far away as Maine and North Carolina will
engage in learning-service projects in various parts of the Institu-
tion under the guidance of curatorial and other professional staff

258 / Smithsonian Year 1975

—— —)
Montgomery County fourth graders use old-fashioned implements to card and
spin wool as part of a unit on “Colonial Life,” developed by their teacher under
the auspices of the orsE teacher workshop program.

members. A grant from the DeWitt Wallace/Reader’s Digest Schol-
arship Fund has made this effort possible.

Other important OESE services include: (1) a resource center,
which loans to both paid and volunteer education workers through-
out the Institution, printed and audiovisual materials relating to
museum education and (2) a Docent Roundtable, established in
1974. Through monthly meetings and other activities sponsored by
the Docent Roundtable, the volunteer guides (docents) from the
various Smithsonian museums are able to learn of the work of
their colleagues and to discuss matters of common concern.

In fiscal 1976, ose will further expand its services through a
program of workshops and materials designed to meet the needs
of a national teacher audience. As a first step in this direction, a
booklet on the educational uses of museums is in progress. In addi-
tion to offering advice on such mundane matters as lunchtime
arrangements and scheduling buses, the publication will contain
suggestions for ways of structuring museum visits to fit the school
curriculum at various stages and grade levels.

Public Service / 259
Through workshops, publications, and related activities, the
Office of Elementary and Secondary Education will continue to
serve the Smithsonian’s education offices, while seeking to meet a
growing commitment to foster the educational uses of museums in
the Washington area and throughout the Nation.

Office of Public Affairs

The central mission and continuing priority of the Office of Public
Affairs are to support and augment various Smithsonian programs
concerned with the increase and diffusion of knowledge so that
there will be a greater public understanding of the Institution’s
activities. Basically, the Office of Public Affairs’ main functions are
those of popular education and visitor orientation through the use
of diverse media. News releases, radio and television productions,
brochures, periodicals, filmstrips, and code-a-phones are among
the techniques appropriately employed to reach the many audi-
ences to which the Institution seeks to address itself. In addition,
the staff devotes a considerable amount of its time and skills
to employee communication in a daily effort to keep the Institution’s
curatorial and administrative leadership aware of media develop-
ments, cultural criticism, museum innovations, and other societal
trends that might affect Institutional planning.

One satisfying and rewarding result deriving from the Office of
Public Affairs’ efforts is the apparent deeper etching of the
Smithsonian’s name in academic and museum communities around
the world as a preeminent center of intellectual and cultural activi-
ties. Smithsonian is a familiar word in the libraries and the living
rooms of America. More and more public attention is being re-
ceived by research programs, informative exhibits, and special
academic events at the Smithsonian, a byproduct of the Institution’s
continued growth and further encouragement of significant and
exciting areas of scholarship by its professional staff.

During the year, the Institution moved forward on several fronts
in the expanding field of telecommunications, including television,
film, and radio. Through a trio of special programs, the Smithsonian
made an outstanding showing in prime-time commercial network
television. Presented on the Columbia Broadcasting System’s net-

260 / Smithsonian Year 1975

Nazaret Cherkezian, Telecommunications Coordinator, Smithsonian Office of Public
Affairs, and Paul E. Desautels, Smithsonian Curator of the Division of Mineralogy,

with the Hope Diamond. The famed gem was the subject of a television special on
March 27, 1975.

At the Smithsonian Institution to commemorate the fifth anniversary of the First
Landing on the Moon, Buzz Aldrin, Mike Collins, and Neil Armstrong stand in front
of Command Module Columbia, July 20, 1974.
work as part of the DuPont Cavalcade of Television, the programs
concerned the natural sciences and flight. The programs were
titled: “Monsters! Mysteries or Myths?;” ‘Flight: The Sky’s the
Limit,” a look at flight through the eyes of teenagers; and the
“Legendary Curse of the Hope Diamond,” portraying some of the
legends behind the Institution’s most popular artifact. It should be
noted that the initial program, which sought to use the scientific
method in analyzing the worth of myths concerning the Abominable
Snowman, the Loch Ness Monster, and the Bigfoot Expeditions,
scored the highest rating for a documentary heretofore presented
on American television.

With the approach of the Bicentennial, film-makers, television
producers, audiovisual companies, and radio stations have increased
their already heavy demands for Smithsonian participation. Pro-
grams such as the National Broadcasting Company’s “Today” show
and the American Broadcasting Company’s “AM America” origi-
nated “live” film and videotape reports from the Institution. They
covered a variety of topics ranging from the life of America’s giant
pandas, Hsing-Hsing and Ling-Ling, at the National Zoological
Park, to the National Museum of History and Technology’s popu-
lar ““Whatsit” exhibit.

In addition, the Telecommunications Staff coordinated Smith-
sonian participation in productions by many outside companies
and agencies including the United States Information Agency for
overseas distribution, the Armed Forces Radio Network, and the
Congressional radio-television group.

As part of the Institution’s “outreach” effort, the Telecom-
munications Staff worked with the Encyclopaedia Britannica Edu-
cational Corporation in the development and introduction of the
first five in a series of educational filmstrips entitled ‘““Museums
and Man.” Designed for students from middle-school level up, the
filmstrips provide a colorful, richly informative overview of the
world of museums. Additional filmstrips in the series, relating to
other Smithsonian interests, are being prepared.

A forty-five-minute film covering the Institution’s many bureaus
and activities was produced by the telecommunications staff for use
by Smithsonian representatives speaking to outside audiences. The
silent film was specifically designed for use with the speaker’s own
narration.

262 / Smithsonian Year 1975

“Radio Smithsonian” continued to present half-hour weekly
programs cutting across the full range of Smithsonian interests. As
the year ended, the program was being carried by sixty radio
stations across the Nation as well as on the “Voice of America”
overseas. The “Radio Smithsonian” staff also assisted in coordi-
nating audio records of significant events at the Smithsonian as part
of an effort to develop an oral archive. In this area, planning was
started with the National Air and Space Museum on the develop-
ment of an oral history program concerning the development of
flight around the world.

The Office of Public Affairs' Publications Section continued to
mirror activities at the Smithsonian through the pages of the
monthly Smithsonian Torch. The quarterly, Smithsonian Institution
Research Reports, was expanded to provide an improved outlet for
news of research in various disciplines—in the humanities as well
as in the natural sciences—underway in the “back room” labora-
tories and libraries of the Institution. Research Reports now have
an expanding international circulation which includes both the aca-
demic community and the general public. The section has worked
with the Bicentennial coordinator to produce a new general leaflet
about the Smithsonian which incorporates information about
Bicentennial exhibitions and events. This leaflet is being translated
into several languages for foreign visitors. Millions of copies of
both the English and foreign language versions will be printed for
the Bicentennial visitors.

The following leaflets were issued by the Office of Public Affairs
in fiscal year 1975:

Identification

Number

References to North American Silver and Silver-Plated 74-7

Wares
References to Fireplaces and Ovens 74-8
Bibliography on Folk Instruments 74-9
American Carousels 74-10
References to Woodenware 74-11
Bibliography of the Civil War 74-12
Machines and Models in Suiting Everyone 74-13
References on North American Indian Clothing 75-1
References on Present Day Conditions Among 75-2

U.S. Indians

Public Service / 263
References on Indian War and Warfare 75-3

References on Seminole Indians 75-4
Textiles in Suiting Everyone 75-5
Bibliography on Indian Lore, Crafts 75-6
North American Indian Periodicals 75-7
18th Century Clothing in Suiting Everyone 75-8
18th Century Garments—Black and White Photos 75-9
The Bermuda Triangle 75-10
Unidentified Flying Objects 75-11
Caring for Wild Birds 75-13
The Hope Diamond 75-14

NOTE: None issued under # 75-12.

The Publications Section also has been concerned with the re-
search and editing required by numerous reference book publishers
planning to include mention of all or some of the Smithsonian’s
activities in their various publications. Both private publishers and
governmental agencies are represented in the inquiries for ref-
erence book research.

Major events such as the opening of the Hirshhorn Museum and
Sculpture Garden, the Festival of American Folklife, dedications of
new exhibits, the television series, and pre-Bicentennial planning
occupied much of the time of the News Bureau. During the year,
340 news releases were issued, twenty-two of which concerned
Bicentennial events, and thirty-nine were about the Hirshhorn’s
first year of operation. In staffing, the effort toward decentraliza-
tion continued with the National Collection of Fine Arts, the Na-
tional Museum of History and Technology, and the National
Museum of Natural History taking on the public affairs duties
within their bureaus. Meantime, an increased effort to gain public
notice for scientific research activities at the Institution was under-
taken with the cooperation of the Assistant Secretary for Science.

The Special Events Staff assisted in the planning, preparation,
coordination, and completion of approximately 675 special events
during the year. These included lectures, presentations, con-
ferences, symposia, meetings, openings of permanent or tem-
porary exhibitions, concerts, coffees and teas, luncheons, dinners
and receptions, dances, and miscellaneous events. In addition, the
Staff also distributed some 600 Smithsonian-oriented posters

264 / Smithsonian Year 1975

throughout the Institution and to various information booths op-
erated by the National Park Service. The office supervised the
production and distribution of about 75,000 printed pieces, includ-
ing invitations, announcements, programs, and acceptances. A
major event was the formal opening of the Hirshhorn Museum
and Sculpture Garden, at which 15,000 guests were received over
a four-day period. Among those in attendance at the various events
at the Hirshhorn were Secretary and Mrs. Ripley, Ambassador
Daniel P. Moynihan, Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Hirshhorn, and Mayor
and Mrs. Walter Washington.

Special tours were arranged during the year for the Empress of
Iran, Mrs. Nelson Rockefeller and her sons, and many other dis-
tinguished visitors. During the Festival of American Folklife, special
tours were conducted for representatives of the People’s Republic
of China, George Meany of the AFL-CIO, and several groups of
diplomats posted in Washington. Secreatry of State Henry Kissinger
was the host at a luncheon at Hillwood for the Shah and Empress
of Iran. Secretary and Mrs. Ripley were the hosts at a luncheon for
the Empress of Iran at the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture
Garden and at a luncheon for Sir John and Lady Llewellyn, and a
dinner for the Duke of Gloucester.

The Special Events Staff also worked closely with the Woodrow
Wilson International Center for Scholars, the Senate of Scientists,
and the Office of Museum Programs in arranging various special
events throughout the year.

The ‘Free Film Theatre” continued its weekly offers of motion
pictures relevant to Smithsonian interests with heavy attendance
during the peak periods of visitation. Films that were presented
generally concerned themes in the fields of history, art, and the
natural sciences. The theater program was held in cooperation with
the National Museum of History and Technology and the National
Museum of Natural History.

Office of Smithsonian Symposia and Seminars

The Office of Seminars, formerly responsible for the Institution’s
advanced studies program established in 1967, was renamed the
Office of Smithsonian Symposia and Seminars to reflect its pan-

Public Service / 265
Institutional activities and outreach. Under its new name it con-
tinues to develop broad educational programs and to serve as a
resource facility for governmental and private organizations, as
well as for universities and scholars.

Administration of the Smithsonian’s international symposia
series program in 1975 included publication of The Nature of
Scientific Discovery, based on the fifth symposium developed in
association with The National Academy of Sciences as the major
American tribute to Nicolaus Copernicus celebrating in 1973 the five
hundredth anniversary of his birth. Edited by Owen Gingerich,
astrophysicist at the Smithsonian’s Astrophysical Observatory
and professor of astronomy and of the history of science at Har-
vard University, the book comprises three major sections: the
papers presented at the symposium, summaries of the adjunct
collegia, and the Copernican festival. Supported by the National
Science Foundation, the National Endowment for the Humanities,
the Copernicus Society of America, and Exxon and other corporate
contributors, the symposium provided a fresh examination of those
elements conducive to scientific achievement, focusing on the
Renaissance and on contemporary science and technology. The book
is but one educational product extending the life and audience of the
original activities of Copernicus Week.

Continuing its function as a Smithsonian resource facility, the
office organized for the National Aeronautics and Space Admin-
istration a one-week seminar on the ‘Outlook for Space,” designed
to provide insight into the social-political-economic-cultural en-
vironment foreseen for the remainder of this century, to assist in
planning future space research and exploration. Some thirty guest
discussants and twenty-five scientists and astronauts from NASA
participated in the meetings at Hammersmith Farm, the summer
estate of Mr. and Mrs. Hugh D. Auchincloss at Newport, Rhode
Island. As a result of the seminar, the office has been approached
by the Preservation Society of Newport County and other civic
groups and leaders to advise on ways and means to take advantage
educationally of the architectural resources of their community for
seminar and symposium activities. For example, the office is assist-
ing in the planning of a Bicentennial symposium on the history of
religious toleration and freedom in the United States which will
make use of Touro Synagogue, Trinity Church, and other historic
structures as settings for scholarly dialogues.

266 / Smithsonian Year 1975
a) ime

Participants in the “Outlook for Space” seminar take a break to enjoy the bracing
October air at Hammersmith Farm, overlooking Narragansett Bay.

Owen Gingerich, editor of The Nature of Scientific Discovery, and His Excellency
Witold Trampczynski, Ambassador of the Polish People’s Republic, exchange felicita-
tions at the May pre-publication party in the National Academy of Science’s Great Hall.

Joining with the Institute of Psychiatry and Foreign Affairs and
the State Department’s Foreign Service Institute, the office de-
veloped a special series of seminars preparing a group of American
doctors and medical specialists for an extended visit to the People’s
Republic of China, in which members of the Chinese Delegation to
the United States participated. (In 1972 the three organizations
were hosts to a medical group visiting the United States from
China.)

Other seminars during the year were: a cooperative seminar on
the Declaration of Independence, in association with Bryn Mawr
College as part of the college’s 1976 studies program for high-
school newspaper editors throughout the United States, wherein
students examined the language used in the document, relating it
to the Revolutionary period and evaluating their own, present-day °
sense of it; ““The Preconditions for Voluntarism,” with discussion
led by Robert A. Goldwin, special consultant to the President; and
“Health Services and Community Participation: Comparisons in
Two Cultures” (the United States and the United Kingdom),
featuring Julian Knox, distinguished specialist in international
health care.

The office also collaborated with the American Universities Field
Staff in presenting a series of new films on human cultural adapta-
tion, “Faces of Change,” to the Smithsonian’s new National Anthro-
pological Film Center. The series was developed by aurs in con-
sultation with the Center and contains 126,000 feet of research
material.

Planning continued toward the Bicentennial symposium, “Kin
and Communities: The Peopling of America,” sixth in the Smith-
sonian’s symposia series. Scheduled for 1977, a series of seminars,
papers, films, workshops, and other activities will reflect on the role
of family institutions and communities in shaping the Nation during
its first two hundred years and as continuing links to African, Euro-
pean, Asian, and other cultures (including those of the American
Indian) which have enriched American civilization. The Department
of History, American University, is assisting in program planning
and is developing a related project of gathering information on indi-
vidual family histories for computer banking and data retrieval in
subsequent studies by historians, anthropologists, and other
scholars, as well as for stimulating self-knowledge on the part of
those writing their family histories.

268 / Smithsonian Year 1975
An international conference on‘“’The United States in the World,”
is being developed jointly by the Smithsonian, the American Coun-
cil of Learned Societies, and the American Studies Association as a
contemporary study of American influence in other societies. The
conference will focus on how we have affected—or not affected—
others in science and technology, in politics and society, and in the
arts and media. About two hundred specialists from other countries
are being invited to come to Washington in September 1976 to par-
ticipate in the meetings and associated activities, along with an equal
number from the United States. A number of those from abroad are
being asked to present analytical and objective papers, no attempt
being made to solicit manuscripts arguing a particular point of view.
The conference’s goal is to find out just what differences two hun-
dred years of American civilization have made in other parts of the
world.

Reading Is Fundamental, Inc.

Reading Is Fundamental, Inc. (r1F) will celebrate its tenth anni-
versary during the Bicentennial year. Founded by Mrs. Robert S.
McNamara as a national, nonprofit, tax-exempt organization, its
program is designed to motivate children to read.

Its goals are: (1) to demonstrate that books—in the home as well
as in the classroom—are essential to a child, and that books should
be available to all children to own, borrow, and buy, and (2) to
educate the American public to the fact that at the present time
this is not the case and to show through rir programs the exciting
and cohesive force produced when educators and communities,
parents and children, organize their resources and efforts to pro-
duce a more literate society.

The program is unique in that it stimulates the interest of children
in books by letting them choose from a wide variety of attractive,
inexpensive paperback books that appeal to them, and by letting
them keep the books as their own.

The growth of interest and tastes are clearly evident as RIF pro-
grams go on from year to year. Faced with a wide choice of books
at their first distribution, youngsters tend to pick up what is familiar

Public Service / 269
—comic books, for example, like Batman. But in a very short time,
they are to be seen browsing, not snatching at whatever comes to
hand. In one project years back, the children all selected a popular
comic. But a year and a half later, the majority of them were read-
ing Charlotte’s Web.

One of the more interesting discoveries was the enjoyment by
young children of well-illustrated Bible stories. A project director
commented, “It’s not surprising. After all, stories like David and
Goliath, Joshua at the Battle of Jericho, and others are really
exciting. The children love them.”

Since its founding in 1966, more than two million children have
received five million paperback books. Presently, 367 RIF programs
are operating in forty-six states (including Alaska and Hawaii).
They are locally operated and funded through either private
sources or moneys for books from federally funded supplementary
programs. Seven thousand parents and community leaders have
been mobilized as volunteers to implement rir programs. Teachers
report children are reading more, exchanging books with their
friends, and building home libraries. Both school and public library
circulations have increased markedly where rir operates. Parents are
actively involved in r1F programs and are buying books for their
children, reading to them and reading themselves.

The impact of rir on libraries alone was clear this year and
last when the New Mexico State Library Commission sponsored
the first RIF project to be funded by a state library.

After the 1974 summer project, the Commission, in a survey
to determine riF’s impact, found that “each library involved with
RIF indicated a registration increase among their children.”

The survey also showed that “other benefits from the program
have included a better working relationship between libraries and
schools; increased interest in the library by parents; expanded par-
ticipation of children in other library programs.”

Public demand for rir’s program increased dramatically during
the past year. In fiscal year 1974 there were 12,000 requests for
RIF'S services, and by May 1975 more than 25,000 such requests.
The number of riF projects increased from 292 in fiscal year 1974
to 367 as of June 1975.

RIF projects range in size from the big New York City program
that gets books to almost 80,000 youngsters to a small one for

270 / Smithsonian Year 1975

eg aes LG
«ef U0
Nos,

This photograph is eloquent proof of the success of RIF’s summer Bookmobile
Program in the District of Columbia. (Photo: Courtesy the Washington Star).

130 Indian youngsters in Mandaree, North Dakota. Sister Patricia
Carroll, of Mandaree School District #36, reported, ‘R1r has been
an agent of joy to our school. The teachers have been so en-
thusiastic and grateful for the program and the children con-
stantly beg for another rir day. We have been happier people
because of RIF.”

With the prevailing economic situation, r1F reduced its budget
by approximately 25 percent. To meet the paradoxical situation of
a reduced budget while maintaining quality service to an increasing
number of projects, RIF undertook two major steps. A national
corporate fund drive was successfully developed and, to serve new
programs, RIF initiated an expanded leadership development and
training program, thus assuring the most economic use of time
of its small field staff while helping to multiply their effectiveness
and field coverage. Volunteers were trained in group cluster meet-
ings to develop new rir project leaders. In May 1975, 125 program

Public Service / 271
directors, parents, and community volunteers from twenty-one
states and the District of Columbia attended rir’s second National
Workshop for leadership training and development.

RIF'S program was endorsed by the United States Commissioner
of Education, Dr. Terrel H. Bell, and it continued its cooperative
activities with the United States Office of Education’s Right to Read
program. The United States Office of Education awarded rir a grant
of $80,000 for the establishment of a National Resource and
Training Center for reading-motivational programs.

RFS Board of Directors, under the leadership of its current
Chairman, Mrs. Robert S. McNamara, and President, Dr. Sidney
Nelson, are planning a special Bicentennial program which has been
endorsed by the American Revolution Bicentennial Administration.
Its goal is to double the number of rir projects by 1977, enabling
it to serve five million children who will have received twenty-five
million books.

Vice President Nelson A. Rockefeller will participate in the
official launching of rir’s Bicentennial Program which will be held
on Citizenship Day, September 17, 1975, at the National Archives.
Children from various ethnic backgrounds who have made sig-
nificant progress through rir reading motivational programs and
their parents will be invited to attend and read portions of the
Declaration of Independence, the Constitution, and the Bill of
Rights.

A unique book entitled, Our Collective Gift to this Nation, will
be published for r1r by Doubleday. Eliot Wigginton, President of
the Board of the Foxfire Fund, Rabun Gap, Georgia, will direct the
project and edit the book. It will be composed of interviews con-
ducted by hundreds of high school students representing most of
the cultural groups in this country. The subjects for their inter-
views will be older people—in many cases their relatives—who
live in their communities. Mr. Wigginton describes the book as an
opportunity for our grandparents to speak from their special per-
spective—“a forum where men and women from every culture can
come together to express, through their grandchildren, their hopes
and fears for us as a nation, and their dreams for us as a world.”

RIF will also publish a Bicentennial r1r Guide to Book Selection
which will offer a comprehensive list of annotated paperback books
selected from the offerings of approximately one hundred pub-
lishers.

272 / Smithsonian Year 1975
Appropriate Bicentennial programs will be undertaken by the
local r1F projects throughout the country to underscore the im-
portance of education and to highlight the significance of reading
achievement in securing that education.

Reading Is Fundamental is based in the Smithsonian Institution
with offices at L’Enfant Plaza. The Smithsonian acts as ruF’s fiscal
agent.

Smithsonian Associates

The Institution’s membership program of the Smithsonian Asso-
ciates was essentally designed for Washington area residents until
the spring of 1970 when publication of the Smithsonian began.
As a principal benefit of membership, the monthly magazine so
stimulated interest in the program as to increase the Smithsonian
Associates to more than 900,000 members across the country.

SMITHSONIAN NATIONAL ASSOCIATE PROGRAM

A developing activity for Associates is the travel program. Dur-
ing fiscal year 1975, more than 1400 members took a foreign
charter or domestic study tour arranged by the Associates travel
office, and some 12,500 were interested enough in the plans to
ask for details.

In this country there were group visits to such places as Death
Valley to study the geology of the national monument, Arizona to
study the Hopi and Navajo cultures, and to Mississippi to tour
antebellum houses in Vicksburg, Port Gibson, and Natchez. In Janu-
ary the Washington “Anytime” Weekend was added to the travel
program as a new benefit, and was designed to give National
Associates the opportunity to visit Washington and the Smith-
sonian any weekend during the year.

The Smithsonian Associate Foreign Charter Program was estab-
lished in fiscal year 1975. One charter flight was sent to England
and two flights went to the Soviet Union. In the Union of Soviet
Socialist Republics, members attended lectures with curators at the
Hermitage and Pushkin museums as well as the Tretyakov Gal-
lery before breaking into small guided tours of the facilities. Addi-

Public Service / 273
tionally, members participated in many small group discussions at
the Leningrad-Tallinn and Moscow Houses of Friendship. In Eng-
land members enjoyed seminar visits at the Greater Council of
London, a variety of museums, and a number of the great houses
and archeological sites.

Another innovation of the year, in January, was the first regional
programming for the benefit of Associates in their own places of
residence. In collaboration with the University of Houston, 7500
Associates from the Houston and Bellaire areas were invited to see
a display of the French royal jewels from the collection of the
National Museum of Natural History. Nearly 3100 members turned
out for the program, and Curator Paul E. Desautels lectured four
times instead of the scheduled two to accommodate the unex-
pected crowd.

Later in the spring, a similar exhibit was presented on the
premises of the First National Bank in Palm Beach, Florida. Several
hundred Associates inspected the gems and were guests at a recep-
tion for Secretary and Mrs. Ripley.

On the strength of the interest shown in these events a series
of others were planned for Associates in various parts of the
country.

The system of discounts on purchases from the Smithsonian
Museum Shops and the Smithsonian Press continued to be widely
used by the Associates.

VISITOR INFORMATION AND ASSOCIATES’
RECEPTION CENTER

The Center’s Information Volunteers continue to act as the Institu-
tion’s special emissaries of goodwill, providing the human interface
between the Smithsonian and visitors or potential visitors to the
national collections seven days a week. Whether by phone, in per-
son, or by mail, Volunteers have cheerfully applied themselves to
the task of providing the most explicit and thorough directions,
information, and/or data requested.

This year 119 new Volunteers were recruited and trained, thirty-
eight of whom were given special instruction to serve the new
Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden. Three major museums
on the Mall (mut, MNH, HMsG) now rely on the Information Volun-
teer Desks to serve as the place where individuals with staff ap-

274 / Smithsonian Year 1975
pointments may have their appointments confirmed and be issued
the required security badges. This procedure, as well as being the
liaison for tour groups and docents, is in addition to assisting the
hundreds of thousands of visitors seeking aid. Increased duties
as well as preparation for the Bicentennial year have demanded
double- and triple-staffing numerous Desks. The overall percentage
of Desk coverage for all Mall museums (with the exception of the
Freer and the inclusion of the off-campus Renwick) has been 90
percent for the past year.

Telephone traffic continues to escalate, up 38,000 or 30 percent
over 1974’s 125,000 calls.

Mail handled through the Center also reflects a substantial in-
crease—33,500 pieces processed over last year’s 22,000. National
Associates’ mail still accounts for approximately 50 percent of all
that is received. Subject matter is usually multiple in nature, taking
a substantial amount of time to research and answer properly. All
special book offerings for Associates were also channeled through
the Center, as well as maintenance of the Smithsonian Calendar
of Events file.

The first foreign-language informational tape system was in-
stalled at both entrances of the Museum of History and Technology
and the Mall entrance of the Museum of Natural History. The
three-and-one-half-minute orientation is available in German,
French, and Spanish as indicated by color-coded phones.

A visitor-orientation slide-show with captions in English, Ger-
man, French, and Spanish was installed in the Great Hall of the
Smithsonian Institution Building. This visual aid is intended to give
visitors a directional sense of the Smithsonian’s Washington
complex.

Volunteer Certificates of Appreciation and Service Pins were
distributed through the Center for museums or galleries requesting
them for their Volunteers. The most impressive program by far was
that of the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory with over 300
International Moonwatch Volunteers, some of whom have been
working since 1956.

Some 10,300 National Members registered in the Center this
year, a figure that is somewhat misleading in terms of the actual
number of member families served. Our space for the majority of
the year was so restricted that many Associates simply picked up
their informational literature and went on their way. This situation

Public Service / 275
has been relieved with the present renovation of the Smithsonian
Institution Lounge as an Associates’ rest and relaxation area.

The Commons, at long last, was opened for Associates on week-
ends, and is operating quite successfully.

A docent program was established to provide National Members
participating in the Washington Weekend trip package an exclusive
tour of the “Castle.” The Weekend package and the tours have
proven extremely popular, with an average of thirty families per
weekend.

Membership registrations were not as numerous as expected,
primarily due to the new Resident processing procedure which
eliminates on-the-spot processing in the Center. The Center handled
721 new National and 1207 new Resident memberships.

A handsome informational brochure for visiting Associates was
introduced this year.

The Museum Reference Service is concentrating on the compila-
tion of material relative to the thirteen original colonies for use by
Associates traveling the Eastern Seaboard.

The employee National membership and gift file continues to
flourish.

Independent Volunteer placement has experienced significant
growth, resulting in some 250 placements for 42,000 hours of
service.

Official recognition of individual Volunteer service throughout
the Institution appears this year for the first time in this report;
see appendix 14.

SMITHSONIAN RESIDENT ASSOCIATE PROGRAM

The Smithsonian Resident Associate Program was established in
1965 by Secretary Ripley to provide the opportunity for residents
of the Greater Washington area to participate in the life of the
Institution. Through its educational activities, for adults and young
people, it has attracted a local membership of 33,500 through May
1975 as compared with 22,000 in May 1974, and over four times the
membership of May 1972. The membership figure represents over
75,000 individuals. The purpose of the Program, as defined by
Secretary Ripley, is to “serve as a link between what the Institu-
tion does, whether in museum or laboratory or art gallery pro-

276 / Smithsonian Year 1975

Ora Van Beek, Deputy Director of the Smithsonian Archeological Expedition
Dig at Tell Jemmeh teaching a Young Associates archeology class.

grams or research and publications, and what the public in the
Washington area can do to participate.” It seeks to achieve this
goal with classes in arts, sciences, humanities, and crafts; study
tours within the Smithsonian bureaus and nearby complementary
facilities; special lectures; seminars; film series; exhibition previews;
outdoor festivals; art poster projects; and performing arts events.

In recent months, increased cooperation with Smithsonian
bureaus has enabled the Resident Associate staff to conceive and
execute a program broad enough to accommodate its rapidly ex-
panding membership with differing interests and aspirations. The
Associate, the monthly newsletter sent to all members, continues
to serve effectively as the Program’s communication vehicle.

In proportion to the membership growth, the staff has grown
from twenty-six at the end of fiscal year 1974 to thirty-one by the
end of fiscal year 1975, primarily in support personnel. The Pro-
gram continues to make a sizable contribution to the unrestricted

Public Service / 277
Noted violinist Yehudi Menuhin, a Resident Associate lecturer, discussing a
composition with James M. Weaver, Associate Curator of the Smithsonian’s
Division of Musical Instruments.

private funds of the Institution while the membership dues and
activity fees have remained constant. With the reallocation of space
in the Arts and Industries Building, the Resident Associate Pro-
gram has moved to new and more spacious quarters, refurbished
with its own funds. Further, to replace the unsightly wooden struc-
tures where most studio classes have been held in previous years
and which are to be razed in the summer of 1975, three new multi-
purpose classrooms for Resident Associate classes only were desig-
nated in the Arts and Industries Building. The National Museum of
Natural History will be sharing with the Program four other new
classrooms now under construction. These new spaces should en-
able the program to offer instruction in more attractive and appro-
priate surroundings.

278 / Smithsonian Year 1975

During fiscal year 1975 the Program embarked upon a number of
new projects or continued special projects recently undertaken.
With the cooperation of the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture
Garden, the Resident Associate Program commissioned and pub-
lished a series of two serigraphs and four posters commemorating
the opening of that Museum. Sold through the membership, the
magazine Smithsonian, the Museum Shops, and government agen-
cies that distributed the art works throughout the world, the enter-
prise is successful financially and esthetically, and is a good method
of furthering public awareness of the Hirshhorn Museum and
Sculpture Garden.

From the proceeds of this project, (1) 415 scholarships were
awarded, on the basis of need and interest, to inner-city children,
enabling them to attend Associate classes free of charge; (2) free
tuition was provided for forty docents from six Smithsonian
museums to attend classes in the field of their special interests;
and (3) a generous contribution was made to the Hirshhorn Acquisi-
tion Fund.

The Program sponsored a three-day festival in Video Art assisted
by a grant from the National Endowment for the Arts. It con-
ducted a four-day seminar at the request and under the sponsorship
of the Office of Smithsonian Museum Programs on “Developing a
Museum-Oriented Curriculum for Adults and Children,” for
twenty-three museum staff members from museums _ located
throughout the United States. Follow-up evaluation indicated that
the participants found the experience particularly valuable.

A television public service announcement was conceived by the
staff, produced by the Smithsonian’s Exhibits Motion Picture Unit,
and released in August 1974. Widely shown on local television, it
was declared a finalist in the CLIO awards competition of the
American TV and Radio Commercials Festival. The Second An-
nual Photography Contest attracted 125 entries from members in
three categories: Adult, Teen, Under 12. The subject matter was
limited to Smithsonian buildings or collections; the judges were
appropriate members of the Smithsonian curatorial and photo-
raphic staffs. Three prizes were awarded in each category.

The number of lecture classes for adults in the arts, sciences,
and humanities increased substantially over 1974. Taught by
Smithsonian and visiting scholars, 105 classes in these areas were

Public Service / 279
scheduled in the four terms this fiscal year. A total of 215 adult
classes, including studio classes, photography, and workshops, were
scheduled for adults during the fiscal year, with an enrollment of
7778 students, as compared with 179 classes with 6405 students
in fiscal 1974. Of the lecture classes, those in anthropology, arche-
ology, architecture, and graphic and interior design were the best
attended. Classes in photography surpass all other studio classes
in enrollment.

Through the Trips and Tours section of the Program, members
greatly enjoyed scholarly tours of Smithsonian exhibitions and
visits to nearby cultural, historical, or scientific locales. This year
there were 354 on-site learning experiences, 100 of which, with
6275 attendees, carried no fee. A total of over 17,000 members par-
ticipated in these activities led by Smithsonian or other qualified
scholars. Among the most popular tours were those that enabled
members to explore facets of the Institution: a “Behind the Scenes”
tour in the National Museum of Natural History attracted over
1500 members; 400 members took guided tours of the “Hearts and
Minds of the People” exhibition at the National Portrait Gallery;
125 enjoyed luncheon-hour talks at the Freer Gallery of Art, and
386 were guided through the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture
Garden. All tours are limited in size; many have to be repeated
as often as twenty-four times to accommodate requests.

The Special Events component of the Program includes lectures,
seminars, and symposia conducted by distinguished Smithsonian
and visiting scholars. Outdoor festivals, film series, and performing
arts are also integral. During fiscal year 1975, seventy-three special
events were attended by over 18,000 people. The Program has de-
veloped a new cooperative series of symposia with the Woodrow
Wilson International Center for Scholars, scheduling four per year.
It is also offering film programs in cooperation with the National
Anthropological Film Center, illustrated lectures in cooperation
with the Audubon Naturalist Society, and opportunities for mem-
bers to increase their appreciation of the performing arts at the
John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts, through special
lectures arranged in conjunction with performances. Twenty special
events were offered free to members only.

The Young Associate programs extend the resources of the Insti-
tution to members’ children (as well as the scholarship children

280 / Smithsonian Year 1975
A popular learning trip of the Resident Associate Program is a walking tour
of Georgetown.

noted above) through classes and special activities. The programs
offer learning experiences appropriate for specific age groups; the
students’ ages range from four years to eighteen. Over twenty
classes are offered each of the four academic terms. This year the
Program, in a cooperative venture with the National Museum of
Natural History, underwrote a Junior Science Club, open equally
to members’ children and public school scholarship participants.
The club meets weekly to work intensively on projects at the
Museum under the supervision of a curator. Each month the new
Career Workshops offer the opportunity for high-school-age mem-
bers to learn about museum careers. Younger Associates enjoy
the monthly free films and other performing arts programs as well

Public Service / 281
as courses and workshops. The annual holiday party attracted over
1000 youngsters. Over 11,000 young people have participated in
the Young Associate activities this past year.

There are over 4500 family memberships, and special activities
are regularly geared to family participation. The annual Zoo nights,
and the Boomerang and Kite Festivals are eagerly anticipated in
addition to mushroom hunts, train trips, fossil digs, visits to Chesa-
peake Bay Center for Environmental Study, Silver Hill, farm
excursions, and other appropriate indoor and outdoor tours. Forty-
four family events were scheduled in fiscal 1975, not including spe-
cial activities for the children of family members.

In addition to the activities mentioned above, members are
offered many intrinsic benefits. During fiscal 1975, the opening of
the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden provided the oppor-
tunity for two gala special Associate openings. Two other special
exhibition viewings were held at the National Collection of Fine
Arts and the National Museum of History and Technology. A free
lecture given by a Smithsonian curator is offered monthly, as well
as other free special lectures. Over 42,000 attendees were re-
corded at free membership events in fiscal 1975. The Smithsonian
magazine, the monthly newsletter the Associate, and the Smith-
sonian calendar are membership benefits, as well as the privilege of
eating in the Commons of the “Castle,” discounts in the Museum
Shops, and parking in the Smithsonian parking lots on weekends,
holidays, and evenings. Members obtain reduced fees on all
activities.

Two hundred and eighteen Volunteers work for the Resident
Associate Program on a regular basis. Their responsibilities vary
from office duties to monitoring classes. This June these Volunteers
were feted at a reception, to express appreciation of their work on
behalf of the Program and the Institution. Certificates were
awarded.

During fiscal year 1975 staff members of the Program received
Certificates of Award from the Institution in “official recognition,
and appreciation of exceptional services rendered in the perform-
ance of duty.”

282 / Smithsonian Year 1975

Smithsonian Magazine

The magazine Smithsonian celebrated its fifth year of publication
with the issue of March 1975. The extent to which the reading
public and the advertising community have responded to the
unique offering of scientific and cultural articles which Smith-
sonian presents have made it the fastest growing of all monthly
magazines in the country, according to recent articles in the
Wall Street Journal and The New York Times. Circulation during
the year increased from 600,000 to 900,000; advertising pages in-
creased from 450 to 600. Thanks to this growth, the magazine
again made a substantial contribution to the unrestricted private
funds of the Institution.

In a recent issue of The New York Times, Philip H. Dougherty
in his media column pointed out that Smithsonian was among the
top six of 100 national consumer magazines to show an increase
of more than 10 percent in advertising pages during the first six
months of 1975 over the year earlier period. To quote Mr.
Dougherty:

Thomas H. Black, ad director of Smithsonian, a publication of
the Smithsonian Institution, is accustomed to being asked ““How
come you're doing so good?” because the magazine has been
growing steadily since it started in 1970 and is up 47.8 percent
in the first half.

Asked to give a speech on the subject last January, he chose
for his title, “It’s amazing what happens when you go back to
the basics.”

“The basic basic,” he said the other day in his office, is a
good editor and he is convinced his magazine has a great one,
Edward K. Thompson, previously managing editor of Life.

“First the editor does his job well,” Mr. Black said. “Then
the circulation department does its job well. And then the adver-
tising department does its job well, and you can’t speed up
that function.”

His pitch and the pitch of the rest of the six-person New York
sales team is that the 900,000 or so who buy the magazine
monthly have an average annual income of $33,793 and are
responsive.

Among the editorial innovations of the year were a pair of two-
part articles. The first of these, by Russell Lynes, celebrated the

Public Service / 283
“Barro Colorado is a

student Gary Martini climbing a gigantic

Don Moser,

shows college

uw
,

1
me)
oS
v
SG
i*p)
%
Gc
©
we
3
~~
xs
wn
c
RS
&
1S)
=I
a
@
wn
v
~
_—
re
—
Qo.
lo)
i
onl
c
Ae
c
lo)
Wn
G
me
&
Sp)
a
ov
e}
c
a
1S)
~
i? 9)
@
i]
ie}
Sq
‘0 |
aT
a
3
°
S
wv
v
iol
a
%
a
D
1)

quarters on Barro Colorado Island in the Panama Canal. (Photo: Courtesy George Silk)

An illustration from Smithsonian magazine article by

Noah’s ark in the rain forest

opening of the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden. The
second, by Tom Alexander, was an up-to-date report on the revolu-
tion in geology stemming from the theories of plate tectonics and
continental drift. Elaborately illustrated with maps and diagrams
created especially for Smithsonian by Richard Edes Harrison and
Antonio Petrucelli, this two-part article has been combined into
a single twenty-four-page pamphlet and made available to schools,
libraries, and the general public.

The magazine’s prelude to the Bicentennial, the monthly column
called “200 years ago,” ended with the eruption of the revolution
in Concord and Lexington. The eighteen installments of the column
have also been combined into a booklet for sale to the public, and a
new regular feature inaugurated: A monthly column, ‘On the Mall
and Beyond,” which takes readers to behind-the-scenes events in
the Institution’s many bureaus here and abroad.

Spectacular color photographs of Scythian gold objects were
made in the Soviet Union by Lee Boltin in order that a Smithsonian
article could appear just before the collection went on display in the
Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York. In another international
effort, Photographer Ernst Haas traveled to remote Bhutan to show
the historical aspect of the coronation of its teenage king.

The magazine continued its coverage of the related subjects of
energy, environment, and technology. An earlier article on solid-
waste management—particularly the currently controversial subject
of bottle-and-can recycling—won first prize in the media awards of
the National Association of Recycling Industries. A discussion of
waterless water closets stirred up a small flood of response from
readers. A timely and balanced story on ozone, its effects in the
atmosphere and on the earth’s surface, helped guide readers through
the later conflicting governmental and press reports on the subject.

Smithsonian Institution Press

Since the mid-1950s, the proliferation of Smithsonian publishing
activities has enjoyed a Topsy-like growth. In 1965 the Press’ work
drew from twenty separate bureaus and departments; by 1975,
seventy-one units were availing themselves of editorial and pro-

Public Service / 285
duction services for everything from simple folders to catalogues
and monographs of several hundred printed pages. This increase
in demand for Press services has been welcomed as an indication
of the Smithsonian’s growing role in the diffusion of knowledge,
but it has inevitably led to problems of overtaxing the Press’
capacity to perform to everyone’s satisfaction. Over the years,
more and more Smithsonian staff members have been publishing
independently of the Press, while at the same time the annual
deficit for privately funded Press publications has increased. Under
the chairmanship of the Assistant Secretary for Public Service, the
Publications Review Board—overseers of Press policy—began fiscal
year 1975 determined to take a hard look at where we are and
where we are going. It hired the management consulting firm of
Boutwell Crane Moseley Associates, specialists in publishing man-
agement, to come in and survey the workings of the Press and the
Institution’s publishing programs.

Boutwell Crane Moseley Associates’ major conclusions, reported
in late spring after three months of intensive study, are:

1. All publishing activity within the Institution needs to be co-
ordinated.

2. The Smithsonian Institution Press is not staffed or funded ade-
quately to conduct a financially profitable trade-book publishing
program.

3. The Smithsonian should be making available to its visitors
and the general public a much wider diffusion of information per-
taining to its collections and research, and this should be accom-
plished through attractively presented, moderately priced publica-
tions. Since the Press is not organized or funded to produce such
materials, arrangements should be initiated for partnership agree-
ments with interested commercial publishers who have the capa-
bility and the interest to carry out these possibilities.

4, The Smithsonian Institution Press should confine its activity
to providing design, editing, production, warehousing, and dis-
tribution services for federally funded manuscripts (serials and
general publications) that are sponsored by Smithsonian museums
and galleries.

Within the next fiscal year, the Press will be reorganized to re-
flect these recommendations. An anticipated move of quarters into
the Natural History Building will take place during the summer,

286 / Smithsonian Year 1975

with office space allotted in conformance with overall plans for new
staffing requirements.

In the year just past, the Press continued to provide editorial,
design, and production services for a wide range of publications.
The output, listed in Appendix 5, represents 9 trade books, 16 art
and exhibition catalogues, 84 booklets, pamphlets, and folders, plus
58 monographs published in the scientific and technical series.

Favorable critical reviews—an all-important factor in a book’s
success—have contributed to sell-out first editions of The Outdoor
Sculpture of Washington, D.C. (paperback) by James M. Goode,
Curator, Smithsonian Institution Building, and The Peoples and
Cultures of Ancient Peru by Luis G. Lumbreras, translated by Dr.
Betty Meggers of the Department of Anthropology, National Mu-
seum of Natural History.

Further recognition of the Press’ role in its publications has
come again in annual awards for editing and design. For the second
year in a row, Smithsonian publications were among the top win-
ners in awards presented by the Federal Editors Association. Ap-
propriate certificates for differing categories were presented to
Nancy Link Powars for The Outdoor Sculpture of Washington,
D.C. and A Standard of Excellence by David G. Finley; Hope
Pantell for Suiting Everyone: The Democratization of Clothing in
America by Claudia Kidwell and Margaret C. Christman (National
Museum of History and Technology); Joan Horn for The Peoples
and Cultures of Ancient Peru; John S. Lea for First Steps Toward
Space by Frederick C. Durant (National Air and Space Museum) ;
and Mary Frances Bell for The Burrowing Sponges of Bermuda by
Klaus Ruetzler. Smithsonian Year, 1974, designed by Crimilda
Pontes, won special recognition in the American Association of
University Presses 1975 Book Show; also in the show was Stein-
berg at the Smithsonian, designed by Stephen Kraft.

During the year, production costs of 176 publications were
funded by federal appropriations in the amount of $298,000; 9
trade publications were supported wholly by Smithsonian private
funds in the amount of $130,100. The Press and the Superin-
tendent of Documents shipped, on order and subscriptions, a total
of 166,873 publications and 104 records. In addition, 10,000 art
catalogues and miscellaneous items were distributed.

Public Service / 287
Five greenhouses leased from the United States Soldiers’ and Airmen’s Home by
the Horticultural Services Division, Office of Plant Services, Support Activities.
Smithsonian Year * 1975

ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT

UNDERLYING THE success of the many projects and programs of the
Smithsonian Institution is a vast network of supportive activities
and general administrative functions. The timely and efficient
execution of these undergirding operations enables the Institution
to fulfill its mandate to increase and disseminate knowledge. The
following reports for fiscal year 1975 of the organizations which
make up “Administrative Management” encompass an impressive
array of on-going activities.

Support Activities

This past year Support Activities progressed steadily toward its
goal of providing timely and quality support for all Smithsonian
programs. The year brought the first significant increase in budget
resources allocated to Support Activities units, in line with recom-
mendations developed at the first Institutional Priorities Conference
held at Belmont in February 1973. Management studies begun
in fiscal year 1974 continued this year in the central support units,
to determine whether the organization, functions, systems, and
procedures of these units are structured to provide the desired
service. Management studies were initiated and/or completed in
the Office of Supply Services, Office of Printing and Photographic
Services, Office of Personnel Administration, Travel Services Office,
and the Office of Computer Services (formerly Information Sys-
tems Division). In addition, special direction and attention were
provided the Office of Facilities Planning and Engineering Services

289
and the Office of Plant Services in completing the establishment of
their units as a result of the reorganization of the former Buildings
Management Department in fiscal year 1974.

In summary, fiscal year 1975 saw Support Activities ap-
praising and redefining itself in order to find new and better
methods to build on its traditional strengths. The success of the
Smithsonian in 1975 in meeting its mission “to increase and
diffuse knowledge” is an indication that Support Activities is meet-
ing its goal of providing timely and quality support.

The central support group is comprised of the following twelve
organizations: Management Analysis Office, Office of Equal Oppor-
tunity, Office of Computer Services, Office of Facilities Planning
and Engineering Services, Office of Personnel Administration,
Office of Plant Services, Office of Printing and Photographic Serv-
ices, Office of Protection Services, Office of Supply Services, Con-
tracts Office, Travel Services Office, and the International Exchange
Service. Brief summaries of the major activities and accomplish-
ments of these organizations are given below.

MANAGEMENT ANALYSIS OFFICE

The Management Analysis Office provides: (1) research and
analysis of policy and procedures and administration of man-
agement improvement programs; (2) a central point for the
operation of a system of review, control, and coordination of
management issuances before and after publication; and (3) eco-
nomical and efficient management and acquisition of printed forms.

A commendable number of significant projects completed or
initiated during the year included publishing new staff handbooks
on correspondence, automatic data processing, and identification
credentials, and a second edition of the requisitioning handbook. At
year’s end, the handbook on travel is in final draft with publication
anticipated early next fiscal year.

In March, one of the two management analysts available in the
Office for special management studies was assigned to work with
the Office of Audits on a review of the system for purchasing,
receiving, and paying for goods and services. This effort is expected
to continue into the next fiscal year.

The Administration’s concern regarding reports management
caused an appreciable increase in the Office’s work, which was

290 / Smithsonian Year 1975

particularly evident in the areas of reports required by federal
agencies and the Congress, as well as in Smithsonian reports in-
volving members of the public.

During the year, the Management Analysis Office gave careful
scrutiny to all management materials to assure their compliance
with the Freedom of Information and the Privacy Acts of 1974.

These activities, accomplished without an increase in staff, are
indicative of the continued expansion of the work load and re-
sponsibilities of the Office.

OFFICE OF EQUAL OPPORTUNITY

The Equal Employment Opportunity Program continued to grow
over the past year. Clear visibility was maintained by distributing
and posting the new eco Plan of Action, EEo publications, informa-
tion about training programs, and memoranda about various EEO
matters, including rights and remedies existing under the 1968
Fair Housing Act. A capstone was reached when the United States
Civil Service Commission’s Director of Federal Equal Employment
Opportunity congratulated the Smithsonian Institution Equal
Opportunity Office on the 130-day average processing time of
complaints and noted “. . . the timeliness of your complaints
processing.” The federal average for processing was 21 days
above the prescribed 180-day limit. The complaints system has
been highly responsive to employee needs. Some 200 inquiries were
handled in 1974, with 8 formal complaints being filed.

Upward Mobility Programs now are operating in the Freer
Gallery of Art, National Air and Space Museum, National Museum
of Natural History, the Office of Plant Services, and two are at
National Museum of History and Technology. These programs give
participating employees the opportunity to achieve their highest
potential and productivity.

Seven new counselors were appointed—one at the National
Collection of Fine Arts, two at the National Museum of History
and Technology, two at the National Zoological Park, and two at
the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory. Eight new E«o officers
were appointed which brings to eighteen the number of individuals
responsible for the respective eighteen major organizations. All of
the officers received one full day of concentrated training at a
seminar conducted by the Office of Equal Opportunity and the

Administrative Management / 291
Office of Personnel Administration. Since May 1973, over 168
supervisors have received training pointed toward a better under-
standing of their respective EEO responsibilities.

The Women’s Program continued its uninterrupted growth. The
Smithsonian Institution Women’s Coordinator was appointed as
Smithsonian representative to International Women’s Year, a
United Nation’s observance, and the Institution held its second
successful Women’s Week in August 1974. The Women’s Council
elected and had appointed its first and second males to member-
ship.

A new Sixteen-Point Program Coordinator was appointed and
trained to serve as the focal point for advising Smithsonian man-
agement and the Director of Equal Opportunity on the special
concerns of our Spanish-speaking staff. Assistance was provided
in assessing the Smithsonian Institution Spanish-surnamed employ-
ment situation, and information about participation in eliminating
systemic barriers for Spanish-speaking citizens was promulgated.

The first federal female supergrade was appointed. There were
other appointments of minority and female managers and super-
visors, as well as other key staff persons. A total of 1094 racial
minorities, employed at the end of June 1973 out of a work force
of 3050, increased to 1252 by the end of March 1975, out of a work
force of 3584. Racial minorities and women each currently com-
prise over one-third of the Smithsonian Institution’s work force.
Women comprise 12.1 percent of all Smithsonian Institution em-
ployees at GS-13 and IS-13 and above, and this is far above the
government average. Minorities, however, comprise 4.5 percent of
all employees at that level, and this is slightly below government
averages. Of 361 permanent professional core positions of Curator
or Curator equivalent (Anthropologist, Biologist, Zoologist, etc.),
only 13 are minority (3.6 percent).

OFFICE OF COMPUTER SERVICES

The Information Systems Division has been renamed the Office of
Computer Services (ocs). While both designations are applicable
in the area of automatic data processing and its associated services,
the new designation will define more accurately the responsibilities
and functions of that office within the Institution.

Progress continues to be made through the use of computer

292 / Smithsonian Year 1975
technology in the areas of administration, management of the
national collections, and scientific research.

ocs recently installed a computer communications-processor to
give the Institution the capability of remote job entry processing
to and from various locations. A remote terminal was installed at
the Fort Pierce Bureau to service their data-processing needs for
scientific research. Plans are underway to expand this remote
terminal capability to the National Museum of Natural History.

Several key-to-disk video terminals were installed during the
year to be used primarily for interactive data conversion. The use
of optical reading devices and services continues to expand as
another way to reduce the data conversion problem.

The Smithsonian’s automated collections management system
called seLGEm continues to arouse attention within and outside the
Institution because of its potential as a standard for computerized
management of collections. Fifty data managers use it to process
more than 200 various Smithsonian collections and about 110
persons at 40 other museums or universities also use it. The ocs
publishes information about the seLtceM system in its technical
bulletin Smithsonian Institution Information Systems Innovations.
The Innovations series acquaints the reader with automated
systems and procedures specifically designed to solve collection and
research problems in museums and herbaria.

Individual research assistance to curators and scientists continues
to be expanded and broadened as they become more aware of the
feasibility of applying mathematical/statistical analysis and com-
puter technology to their research problems.

OFFICE OF FACILITIES PLANNING AND ENGINEERING SERVICES
Fiscal year 1975 marked the first full year of operation for the
Office of Facilities Planning and Engineering Services (orpres). A
major effort was made to improve staff capability in the architec-
tural and engineering disciplines to meet the increasing demand for
professional services. Improvements were made in contract ad-
ministration, estimating, and planning functions.

Based on construction dollar value, office services in fiscal year
1975 increased over fiscal year 1974 by 100 percent. Project
volume showed a 38 percent increase over the preceding fiscal year.
Several major projects started or constructed during the year in-

Administrative Management / 293
cluded: Carnegie Mansion renovation; Natural History Building’s
West Court facility and East Court Osteology Laboratory; Ana-
costia Neighborhood Museum Exhibit Production Laboratory;
dormitory facilities at the Chesapeake Bay Center for Environ-
mental Studies; Natural History Building’s escalator and North
Foyer alterations; Arts and Industries Building renovation; major
fire detection systems for five museums; Jefferson Island bulk-
heading; Buildings #24 and #25 at the Silver Hill facility; South
Yard development; and Third Floor renovation at the Fine Arts
and Portrait Galleries. In addition, orres provided consulting and
professional services for eighty-five projects, including major
exhibit installations.

Preliminary action has been taken to initiate long-range planning
studies for the Chesapeake Bay Center for Environmental Studies
in Maryland, the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute in
Panama, and the Mt. Hopkins Observatory in Arizona. Efforts also
were directed to assisting in basic planning for the Museum Sup-
port Facility to be located at Suitland, and consideration was given
to the needs of the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden and
the National Air and Space Museum. A continuing effort also was
made with program units to develop procedures tailored to their
special needs.

With the substantial demands for services, orres is directing its
efforts to improving communication with museums and bureaus
and to providing more effective management of its activities.

OFFICE OF PERSONNEL ADMINISTRATION

The Office of Personnel Administration is responsible for recruit-
ment and placement, position classification, training and career
development, employee relations, labor-management relations, and
equal opportunity as it relates to personnel management. The
Office also has the responsibilities for implementing new laws and
policies and making contributions to Smithsonian-wide efforts,
such as reducing personnel costs.

Activity increased in virtually every program. More than 1200
recruitment requests and 8000 job inquiries and applications were
received, and 1789 accessions and 1342 separations processed.

Negotiations with the United States Civil Service Commission
resulted in the issuance of a police officer examination announce-

294 / Smithsonian Year 1975

ment for the Smithsonian Institution. This announcement—a new
method of announcing recurring vacancies—significantly reduced
the time lag between advertising vacancies and filling the posi-
tions.

As a result of the implementation of the formal position classi-
fication program, position descriptions for the Institution were
reviewed and new descriptions were prepared where necessary.

Labor-management relations continued to reflect mutual respect
and cooperation. Negotiations for a multi-unit labor agreement
were concluded after difficult bargaining, and consultations were
held with the unions on a number of subjects in accordance with
existing agreements. Also, formal grievance and complaint pro-
cedures were utilized in several instances, and these problems were
resolved subsequently.

Ten new courses were offered by the Training Office for both
professional and support staff. These courses ranged from Labor
Management Relations to English Usage Refresher and Filing for
Secretaries. In addition, courses of a more general nature were
offered, such as General Education Development (leading to a High
School Equivalency Certificate), and, for female employees, the
Sexual Assault Prevention Program was conducted by the Smith-
sonian Office of Protection Services. Another new course was the
Career Planning Workshop which was open to professionals and
nonprofessionals alike. These courses, coupled with the regular
courses, enabled us to offer training to 1433 employees in the last
year: 591 in courses offered in-house, 828 in courses outside of the
Smithsonian, and 14 in executive development courses.

The Office of Personnel Administration initiated action to
develop a Guide for Private-Roll Personnel Management. Policies
are being assembled and updated, personnel procedures and prac-
tices reviewed, and the needs and problems of the various activities
identified and evaluated. The objective is to promote more effective
personnel program operations by providing a comprehensive source
of authentic information and guidance on private-roll personnel
management and administration.

OFFICE OF PLANT SERVICES

The Office of Plant Services (opLants) has basic responsibility
for the operation and maintenance of Smithsonian physical plant

Administrative Management / 295
and associated utilities distribution systems; support of bureau re-
search, exhibition, and educational programs; local and long dis-
tance telephone and teletype communications; transportation of
personnel, freight, museum specimens, and art requiring special
handling; off-Mall storage of the Smithsonian collections; grounds
and pavement maintenance; landscaping and greenhouse opera-
tion in the development of horticultural exhibit areas; housekeep-
ing services and building management for various off-Mall owned
and leased facilities. OPLANTS is responsible for requisitioning, pro-
curing, shipping, receiving, and warehousing custodial and indus-
trial supplies, materials, and equipment for building manager and
Craft Shops operations. It provides program support and plant
services annually for the Festival of American Folklife. It dissemi-
nates advice, guidance, plans, methodology, and standards to all
major offices and bureaus of the Smithsonian and monitors the
quality of accomplishment in the area of its responsibilities.

A new division, Management Services Division, was established
in the Office of Plant Services in June 1974. A major program
initiated during 1974 was the compilation of utilities bills for past
years and year-to-date and the comparison with known degree day
(heating and cooling) information from the United States Depart-
ment of Commerce National Climatic Center. This information has
proved invaluable in formulating budget data and will be used in
future utilities cost projections.

A work management program was developed to increase pro-
ductivity of work force by the application of industrial engineering
techniques. To bolster this program a highly specialized training
course in use of engineering performance standards was attended
by the planner-estimators in the Work Coordination Branch.

An app system, reflecting the flow of work requests through the
Work Coordination Branch, was developed. Printouts showing
status of all work requests are provided on a weekly basis.

A work request priority procedure, developed by the Manage-
ment Services Division, assists in the timely accomplishment of
urgent work in support of museums’ exhibition programs. The
Division established optants’ supply controls to include ordering,
inventory, supply levels, reorder points, and proper storage
techniques.

Custodial maintenance inspections were conducted by the new
Inspections Branch. This inspection program is designed to assure

296 / Smithsonian Year 1975
high standards of cleanliness throughout all Smithsonian museums.

The Crafts Services Division completed the following major
projects during the year: constructing a health unit in the Natural
History Building and a retention room for the safekeeping of
artifacts to be exhibited in the History and Technology Building;
assisting in the three-day opening of the Hirshhorn Museum and
Sculpture Garden; and providing support to the Festival of Ameri-
can Folklife. The Division also undertook maintenance of the
Anacostia Neighborhood Museum.

A preventive maintenance program was implemented in February
1975 in the Fine Arts and Portrait Galleries building, the Hirshhorn
Museum and Sculpture Garden, the Renwick Gallery, and the
Freer Gallery of Art. The preventive maintenance administration
system was implemented by the Preventive Maintenance Branch of
this division. The system is geared to maintain physical plant
equipment in an economical manner and an operational condition
consistent with the age of each machine. It is the intention of
OPLANTS to extend this program to other museum buildings.

An 18M System 7, a computerized electrical demand and con-
sumption monitoring and control system, was placed in operation
in January 1975. This system, designed to reduce utilities consump-
tion/demand while maintaining vital temperature and humidity
levels in museum buildings, was installed and implemented by
operating engineers of the Crafts Services Division. Early indica-
tions are that substantial savings in energy demand and consump-
tion will exceed expectations.

The mission of the Communications and Transportation Services
Division continued to expand as the responsibility for the manage-
ment of the Smithsonian parking program was delegated to this
unit in December 1974. In addition, the Division began operation
of an authentic, vintage, double-decker London bus in early May.
This vehicle, operated seven days a week, transports visitors to
various museums and galleries and has proven to be immensely
popular.

Division personnel successfully conducted a program to raise the
level of mail consciousness of Smithsonian staff. Particular em-
phasis was placed on: proper classification and preparation of mail,
postal cost reductions, and realistic pickup and delivery schedules.
Over 500 persons attended two sessions of a mail-consciousness
program, which has resulted in a reduction in postage costs.

Administrative Management / 297
Red double-decker London bus (an anonymous gift to the National Portrait
Gallery) transports visitors between the Gallery at its off-Mall location and
the National Museum of History and Technology on the Mall.

On January 1, 1975, the Horticultural Services Division leased
a greenhouse-nursery complex from the United States Soldiers’
and Airmen’s Home, Washington, D.C. This area consists of: five
production houses with a total of 24,000 square feet, a 400-square-
foot propagation house, and over an acre of nursery space. This
greenhouse-nursery will supply much needed space for production
and rotation of plant material for various educational, scientific, and
display projects. This complex also provides a location for produc-
tion of summer annuals and seasonal plantings.

The Horticultural Services Division undertook the landscaping
of various museum buildings in 1975. Major projects included the

298 / Smithsonian Year 1975
Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, Cooper-Hewitt Museum
in New York, and the G Street entrance to the National Collection
of Fine Arts. The division also installed 35,000 summer annuals,
8000 fall chrysanthemums, 100,000 tulips, and holiday decorations
in most museums.

In an effort to consolidate several off-Mall offices and ware-
houses, the Smithsonian leased a four-story building at 1111 North
Capitol Street. The Warehousing Services Division commenced
the move of material in December 1974. By the end of the month
the entire contents of Building #3 warehouse in Alexandria were
transferred to the Smithsonian Institution Service Center (sisc).
Space now is provided for various Smithsonian units and the
building is approximately 40 percent occupied at present.

The Metro Group Branch of the Warehousing Services Division,
based at the sisc, provides building manager services to off-Mall
buildings and to the sisc. Building manager supplies are being
warehoused at the sisc. The Receiving and Shipping Branch, which
handles office moves and freight transfers for Smithsonian units,
now is located at the sisc.

OFFICE OF PRINTING AND PHOTOGRAPHIC SERVICES
The pattern of growth by the Office of Printing and Photographic
Services continued during the year with the implementation of ex-
panded capabilities and services both to the Institution and the
public.

In the Duplicating Branch, the purchase of additional equipment
allowed the Branch to maintain its position of providing responsive
reproduction services to the Institution. A new tandem-head press
was placed in operation, enabling simultaneous printing of both
sides of a page. This not only saves time in printing but also allows
for better utilization of paper supplies during this period of rising
costs. New collating and binding equipment also was added during
the year.

In the area of Photographic Services, the Color Laboratory be-
came fully operational during the year, processing approximately
120,000 35mm color slides and duplicates, as well as high quality
4” x 5” and 8” x 10” color transparencies. The personnel and
equipment utilized in this operation have made it one of the best
color units in the Washington area.

Administrative Management / 299
The Black and White Photographic Laboratory produced more
than 200,000 prints during the year, the vast majority of which
were to meet requirements of Institution staff. Of this figure,
slightly more than 10,000 prints were produced to fill requests from
the public.

Recognizing the need to continue providing photographic sup-
port to the public, the Customer Services Branch developed a num-
ber of black-and-white print and 35mm color slide sets represent-
ing the most popular areas for which requests are received.
Through mass production, these sets now can be offered to
teachers, museum associates, and others at costs below that
charged for individual orders. For the first time, the availability of
these sets was advertised in the Smithsonian magazine with a good
response.

Sets produced to date include prints of popular American Indian
photographs from the Smithsonian Institution National Anthro-
pological Archives and slide sets on Postal Rarities, the First Ladies
Gowns, and the Suiting Everyone exhibit. Coupled with this was
the production of slide sleeves with highlights from the National
Museum of History and Technology and the National Museum of
Natural History. Slides also were produced for the National Collec-
tion of Fine Arts and the National Portrait Gallery. All these mate-
rials now are available for sale through the Museum Shops.

A slide lecture on Musical Instruments of the Baroque and Early
Classical Eras is being prepared under a grant from the Women’s
Committee of the Smithsonian Associates. Final approval, produc-
tion, and distribution are anticipated during the coming year.

During 1975, final tests were completed on the app program for
cataloguing photographic caption data. Input was begun on an
initial catalogue of approximately 10,000 photographs covering all
aspects of the Institution. This catalogue will be available for world-
wide distribution to educators, scientists, publishers, and other
interested parties.

OFFICE OF PROTECTION SERVICES
The Office of Protection Services began operating a sentry dog
program in the spring. Six dogs, donated to the Smithsonian Insti-
tution by private citizens, and six canine handlers, selected from the
existing protection force, completed a comprehensive, 14-week

300 / Smithsonian Year 1975

training program. The training was conducted primarily at Andrews
Air Force Base, through the cooperation of the United States Air
Force. Supervising this training program was a member of our
training unit in the Protection Division, who formerly was a K-9
trainer for the Metropolitan D. C. Police Department. Use of the
K-9 teams started on April 14, 1975, primarily to patrol the
grounds around our Mall facilities, the interior of areas such as the
Silver Hill Facility, Lamont Street, the new Service Center on North
Capitol Street, and to provide a limited amount of internal patrol
in the Natural History Building during nonpublic hours. Dogs are
kept on leash by their handlers throughout patrol duty.

A significant reduction was realized in the rate of increase in
crimes during 1974. Whereas the rate of increase was 90 percent
in 1972 over 1971 and 51 percent in 1973 over 1972, the rate rose
by only 4 percent in 1974 over 1973. Much of the credit for reduc-
ing the rate of increase belongs to our expanded plainclothes
operations in our Mall facilities.

A new health unit, opened in 1974 in the new Hirshhorn
Museum and Sculpture Garden, serves employees of our south
Mall facilities. The unit also provides first aid treatment for the
public. Present plans include another health unit in the new Na-
tional Air and Space Museum when it opens to the public next
year.

A new operational element was established to provide protection
and security for the new nas. The first increment of protection
officers was placed in the Museum in the spring, with plans for
operation to reach full strength as the Museum nears completion
and readies for public opening.

OFFICE OF SUPPLY SERVICES

The Office of Supply Services processed approximately 20 percent
more procurement and contract actions this year than in fiscal
year 1974. This was accomplished with no increase in personnel
while the Institution continues to expand its facilities and activities.

The Receiving and Storage Sections were consolidated and moved
to larger quarters at the Smithsonian Institution Service Center.
The new facility provides for much needed working space to re-
ceive, inspect, inventory, and store items until they are delivered.
Standard forms and printed paper items are the only items stored

Administrative Management / 301
in the stock room in the Natural History Building. All other items
are purchased by the organization units through the General Serv-
ices Administration Self-Service Stores. This has freed supply
personnel to form inventory teams and to insure that proper in-
ventories are taken by the organization units, thus accounting for
all accountable personal property.

Participation in the Government Property Utilization Program
brought to the Smithsonian Institution the Humphrey Diamond,
valued at more than $100,000 and the sound and electronic equip-
ment from EXPO 74, Spokane, Washington, which will be installed
in the new National Air and Space Museum with a savings of over
$150,000 to the Smithsonian.

RAN BET SERVIGCES OEEIGE

The Travel Services Office (ts0), responsible for the accomplish-
ment and coordination of the travel plans for the Smithsonian In-
stitution throughout the United States and to all areas of the world,
again this year experienced growth in all its major activities such
as air and rail reservations and travel itineraries.

In addition to furnishing travel services, advisory services and
detailed planning, data were provided for the annual Festival of
American Folklife; for national and international conferences; and
for meetings and archeological expeditions in Yugoslavia, Israel,
Morocco, and Tunisia.

Of particular interest this year, in connection with the Eighth
Annual Festival of American Folklife, tso assisted in planning for
and providing tickets to foreign participants from Greece, Nigeria,
Scandinavia, and Tunisia, including a tour of the United States.

Working closely with the Accounting Division, the Travel Serv-
ices Office participated in the implementation on October 16, 1974,
of the new Automatic Payment Procedure System for the purchase
of airline tickets. Also working with the Accounting Division, Tso
initiated plans for a similar system for the payment of certain rail-
way tickets, and implementation of these procedures will occur
early next fiscal year.

Close liaison was maintained with the airlines to accomplish con-
tinuing complex travel arrangements performed for the Foreign
Currency Program of the Office of International Programs.

302 / Smithsonian Year 1975

INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGE SERVICE
The International Exchange Service is the one program bureau
included in the Support Activities group. Since 1851 the Service
has provided the means whereby learned societies in the United
States can exchange their scholarly publications for those of foreign
institutions.

During the year publications were received from approximately
250 organizations representing every state in the Union for trans-
mission to over 100 countries. Publications were forwarded by
ocean freight to 38 exchange bureaus in 32 countries. Where there
are no exchange bureaus, the publications were mailed.

Approximately 100,000 packages were received from foreign
institutions for distribution in the United States.

Despite the rising cost of shipping and supplies, service was
maintained at the level of the previous year.

Events of note for the period were the retirement of J. A. Collins
as Director after nineteen years with the International Exchange
Service and forty-two years with the Smithsonian Institution, and
the move of the Service to new quarters.

Financial Services

The Treasurer has overall responsibility for the financial assets of
the Smithsonian Institution. Such responsibility includes the bud-
geting and accounting of federal appropriations, the fiscal adminis-
tration of grants and contracts, and the monitoring of revenue-
producing activities. Further detail on these activities is given in
the following five reports by the Office of Programming and
Budget, the Accounting Division, the Investment Accounting Divi-
sion, the Grants and Insurance Administration Division, and the
Business Management Office.

Working closely with the Investment Policy Committee of the
Board of Regents, the Treasurer oversees the management of the
endowment funds of the Institution by three professional advisory
firms, and is also responsible for the short-term investment of
current funds excess to immediate operating needs. Details on these
funds and the other financial resources of the Institution can be
found in the Financial Report at the front of this volume.

Administrative Management / 303
OFFICE OF PROGRAMMING AND BUDGET

The Office of Programming and Budget participates in program
planning for the Institution and, to carry out these plans, formu-
lates, presents, implements, and reviews operating and construction
budgets of appropriated and nonappropriated funds. About $100
million from many different sources were involved this year.
Details on these sources and on the application of the funds may
be found in the Financial Report. The Office works closely with all
operating and managerial levels of the Institution and participates
in presenting Federal budgets to the President’s Office of Manage-
ment and Budget and to the Congress.

During the year, detailed operating budgets and staffing plans
were developed with some seventy-five organization units ranging
from the major program activities, such as museums, research
laboratories, and the magazine Smithsonian to the supporting ser-
vice and staff offices. Separate budgets also were prepared on a
large number of restricted fund projects primarily of a research and
collections management nature. Construction budget matters called
for frequent work with the Office of Facilities Planning and
Engineering Services and with the National Zoological Park.

Several actions were initiated during the year to aid in the devel-
opment and execution of the budget processes. Planning statements
and detailed information on the amounts and uses of currently
available financial resources were requested from all operating
units for review prior to their submission of proposals for fol-
lowing year budgets. Using information supplied by the bureaus
and offices, current allocations of staff and dollar resources from
all sources of funds to Smithsonian functions, such as research,
conservation of collections, and exhibitions, were compiled to show
areas of strength and weakness. The purpose of this effort was to
allow more time for the top managers of the Institution to review
program directions, goals, and resource adequacies before decisions
needed to be made on future budgets. The third annual meeting to
review and agree on Institution goals and priorities was held at the
Chesapeake Bay Center in June 1975 to lay the groundwork for
fiscal year 1977 and subsequent planning.

Steps were taken to develop a computer-assisted system for the

304 / Smithsonian Year 1975
Auction held at the National Zoo by the Women’s Committee, May 22, 1975.
Mrs. S. D. Ripley places a bid on the flower prints by Mary Vaux Walcott.
Below: View of the supper held in the Monkey House during the auction at
the National Zoo held by the Women’s Committee, May 22, 1975.

preparation and update of annual organization unit employment
plans (showing positions, names of incumbents, salaries, and bene-
fits) which are used as a key ingredient to the development of each
operating budget. In addition to reducing the heavy manual work-
load now required to produce these plans for about 4,000 em-
ployees, such an automated system will allow future costs of pro-
posed employment actions and government-wide legislated salary
increases to be determined and assessed. The system may also
allow the coding of the functional purposes served by staff and,
thus, give more accurate base-analysis data for review.

ACCOUNTING DIVISION
The Accounting Division regularly handles and accounts for all
funds of the Institution, both federal and nonfederal, including
payrolls, payments for materials and services, and receipts from
a great variety of sources, and in addition provides over 600 finan-
cial reports monthly to Institutional managers at unit and head-
quarters levels.

Continuing the accounting services program during fiscal 1975,
the accounting staff developed and implemented efficient programs
on the key-to-disk data entry system installed in May 1974. These
programs permit data entry from the business document and have
reduced the clerical copying and transfer of data from one docu-
ment to another. As a byproduct, disbursing checks are produced
for private funds and a magnetic tape is produced on federal trans-
actions for automatic payment by the United States Treasury.
Additionally, the Accounting Division completed the implementa-
tion of an optical mark read personnel time-reporting procedure,
and reorganized the voucher-examining routine to speed up
payments.

INVESTMENT ACCOUNTING DIVISION

The Investment Accounting Division is responsible for cash man-
agement and cash forecasting projections for the purpose of insur-
ing maximum investment of temporary surpluses and other
financial management purposes.

The Division supervises the formulation of data and maintenance
of the app mechanized system utilized in the preparation of invest-
ment ledgers, performance evaluation indices on the three invest-

306 / Smithsonian Year 1975
ment managers, commission reports, audit work sheets, and
accruals.

In addition, this Division performs all tasks required in applying
the total return concept of income to the various endowment
income funds, including the initial annual projections to determine
normalized five-year average market valuation and the effect of
total return on historic dollar value of the individual funds.

GRANTS AND INSURANCE ADMINISTRATION DIVISION

The Grants and Insurance Administration Division, responsible for
administration of gifts, grants, and contracts received by the
Institution, administers the Institution’s risk management and in-
surance program. The Division provides administrative, manage-
ment, and financial services to Smithsonian researchers and busi-
ness representatives of granting agencies. It establishes and
monitors systems and procedures to assure that funds are expended
in accordance with appropriate regulations and contract terms.
During the past year the Division continued its financial adminis-
tration of these funds continually exploring various approaches to
providing management information in meaningful and expeditious
forms to meet better the ever-expanding administrative needs of
the bureaus.

The risk management program of the Institution was expanded
through our participation in seminars and workshops. The pilot
seminar and workshop—attended by the staff of various museums,
including the Smithsonian—was designed to expand the knowledge
of museum insurance problems and innovations through the ex-
change of information and proved to be quite successful. Future
seminars are planned to encourage further participation in solving
the complexities of insurance and risk management problems in
museums today.

As in 1974, a considerable savings was realized while arranging
a wide variety of coverages ranging from giraffe mortality insur-
ance to short-term health insurance for the Festival of American
Folklife participants.

BUSINESS MANAGEMENT OFFICE

The Business Management Office has overall responsibility for the
Museum Shops, the Product Development Program, and the Bel-

Administrative Management / 307
mont Conference Center, which are described below. In addition,
it advises other Smithsonian bureaus on the negotiation and moni-
toring of revenue-producing concessions and contracts. During the
past year Business Management assisted in the negotiation of con-
tracts for the construction project in the West Court of the Na-
tional Museum of Natural History, for the parking concessionaire
in the new National Air and Space Museum, and for the expansion
of the cafeteria in the National Museum of History and Technol-
ogy. It also assisted in implementing a number of improvements in
the operation of the Commons dining room.

Museum Shops

Fiscal year 1975 saw further progress in the program of Museum
Shop improvements which began several years ago. The sales area
in the National Museum of History and Technology was redesigned
completely by a leading architectural firm, and opened in March
1975. The new design has resulted in a greater ability to serve the
large number of visitors to this important museum, as well as in
an architectural ambience particularly appropriate to the building.

The opening of a new Museum Shop in the Hirshhorn Museum
and Sculpture Garden in October 1974 brought to seven the num-
ber of Smithsonian buildings with Museum Shop operations.

Financial results for the year were very satisfactory, making it
possible for the Museum Shops for the first time to share a por-
tion of their revenues with the museums for additions to the col-
lections or for other worthwhile projects.

Product Development

The Product Development Program originated in 1972 as a means
to make it possible for men, women, and children who cannot
visit Washington to learn about and enjoy the historical collections
of the Smithsonian, as well as to make it possible for the more
than 20 million tourists who do visit the Smithsonian annually to
take home with them various interpretations and copies of items
in the Smithsonian to share with their neighbors and friends.
As part of this program, the Smithsonian has entered into agree-
ments with several leading United States manufacturers under
which they manufacture and sell, in close coordination with the

308 / Smithsonian Year 1975
Smithsonian, various lines of museum-related products. In October
1974, under one such agreement, the Fieldcrest Company intro-
duced to the public “American Treasures?’ a collection of bed-
spreads, quilts, comforters, blankets, sheets, and towels based on
designs found in the Smithsonian. Public reception has been
especially favorable. Fieldcrest’s second collection, “Nation of
Nations,” featuring Smithsonian designs of foreign origin, was
introduced to the trade in May 1975 and was well received.

Under another agreement, the Stieff Company introduced in
fiscal year 1975 a group of silver and pewter products. Among
these are such items as a reproduction of a punch cup which was
part of a set presented to the commander of Fort McHenry for its
successful defense against the British in 1812, and a reproduction
of George Washington’s wine coaster.

In June 1975, F. Schumacher & Company introduced to the trade
a line of decorative fabrics and wall coverings based on Smith-
sonian designs. Fiscal year 1975 also saw the trade introduction of
three new diorama kits from Tonka, in addition to the four which
were brought out earlier.

A new agreement was reached during the year with Universe
Books, under which Universe will develop several Smithsonian
calendars. Currently in production for 1976 are a desk engagement
calendar and three wall calendars based on the Hirshhorn Museum
and Sculpture Garden, the National Collection of Fine Arts, and
the National Museum of Natural History.

Belmont Conference Center

The Belmont Conference Center, located between the District of
Columbia and Baltimore near Interstate 95, provides an attractive,
secluded, gracious, and exclusive retreat unusual in the Eastern
Corridor. Its easy access to the Baltimore-Washington airports, as
well as to automotive arteries, impresses upon its guests the
enjoyable paradox of a rural setting with the conveniences of
urban proximity but without its complexities. One of the major
advantages of Belmont is its use by only one group at any one
time; schedules are so arranged as to avoid the overlap and
attendant discomforts often encountered in other conference centers
and hotels. Since its opening in 1967, conference operations have
been directed toward the needs of small groups which require a

Administrative Management / 309
location unencumbered by the normal intrusions associated with
offices. The 240-year-old manor house, with 365 surrounding acres
of lawns, forests, and fields, provides a working retreat for the
productive groups which keep returning to the Center.

Belmont can accommodate twenty-four in-house residents, with
facilities for ten to twelve additional guests, speakers, or observers
for meals and meeting sessions. This limiting size factor ensures
that each conference has the undivided and individual attention of
the entire staff, as well as the opportunity for unusually close inter-
action within the meeting group itself. Of the eighty or so meetings
which Belmont hosts in a year, approximately 60 percent are from
federally-funded agencies; the balance include those from founda-
tions and other philanthropic organizations; professional, religious,
and social groups; corporations and private industry; and uni-
versities and colleges.

Office of Audits

During fiscal year 1975, the Office of Audits issued audit reports
on the Special Events Branch, Certain Foreign Gifts Acquired by
the Smithsonian, the Smithsonian Exhibits Program, the Office of
Museum Programs, the Protection Division, and the Accounting
Division Travel Unit. Audit recommendations made in these re-
ports have resulted in dollar savings and improved management
procedures and controls. In addition, various pre-award and post-
audits of contracts and grants were completed.

Smithsonian Women’s Council

Activities of the Smithsonian Women’s Council began successfully
this year with the appointment of a coordinator to develop plans
for a child-care center for Smithsonian employees. With the full
and continuing support of the Secretary and his Executive Com-
mittee, studies now are underway to bring the employee child-care
project to favorable realization.

310 / Smithsonian Year 1975
The Council coordinated and participated actively with the
Office of Personnel Administration and the Office of Equal Oppor-
tunity in a wide variety of special programs, including observance
of Women’s Week in August. The keynote speaker was Wilma
Scott Heide, noted feminist and former Chairperson of the National
Organization for Women. Additional features were seminars,
lectures, films, and an exhibition on women’s achievements in the
arts and sciences in the Pendulum area of the History and Tech-
nology Building. During the week an in-depth workshop on career
planning was inaugurated for Smithsonian employees. The con-
tinuation of these workshops as a regular part of the Smithsonian
personnel program also realizes a goal of the Council to provide
employees with in-house career counseling.

This year the Women’s Council began a permanent column in
the Torch—an important means of communication with Smith-
sonian employees. The column featured articles about Council
activities and other matters, such as the Upward Mobility Program
and career development and training programs.

On March 4, 5, and 6, members of the Women’s Council at-
tended an orientation training program conducted by LaVerne
Love, Smithsonian’s Women’s Program Coordinator. This program
provided an opportunity for the Council members to become
acquainted with women’s programs in government agencies, as well
as those in the Smithsonian.

Films on breast and uterine cancer, sponsored by the Council in
March, were well attended. A physician from the American Cancer
Society was present after the film to answer questions and discuss
the technique of breast self-examination.

A Thursday Seminar series of outstanding speakers was begun
by the Council in May. This series, designed to appeal to all
Smithsonian employees, has featured Euphesenia Foster, Education
and Special Projects Officer, Department of Justice, Bureau of
Prisons, who spoke about her work on sensitizing the public to the
needs of the woman offender; Dr. Estelle Ramey, Professor of
Physiology and Biophysics, Georgetown University Medical School,
whose subject was “Sex Hormones and the GS Rating”; and Mr.
William Blakey, Director of Congressional Liaison for the United
States Commission on Civil Rights. The Thursday Seminar series
has been received enthusiastically by Smithsonian employees.

Administrative Management / 311
A

se Neca Qe? NG

Vis

held at the Center in October 1974.

,

yy
Yi
Ye yy
y ee W/)

wn
oO
7)
7)
oO
&
ae)
eo
iss}
=
(}
a
me)
q
iss}
a
a=)
~
~
S
=
ae)
=
fe}
=
vo
by
a)
H
ss)
—
°
c
S)
Sp)
&
ie)
Se
H
vo
~
=
v
UO
S
S
—

ilson Internat

Wipiilaaees

Mie NestlpthipeE:

conference on the problems of New England

Woodrow W

Smithsonian Year + 1975

WOODROW WILSON
INTERNATIONAL CENTER
FOR SCHOLARS

JAMES H. BILLINGTON, DIRECTOR

LATE IN 1968, the Congress determined that the official national
memorial to the twenty-eighth president of the United States
should be a “living memorial.” This congressional decision to build
a living memorial for a great scholar-president has enabled a new
international center for advanced scholarship to emerge in Wash-
ington. It is well on the way to becoming a place which makes a
difference; a center in which humanistic, Wilsonian connections
are made between intellect and moral purpose, the world of ideas
and the world of affairs.

People, ideas, and communication are the essentials of scholar-
ship. The activity of this Center is a creative mix of all three:
people who can think, ideas that matter, and communication that
gets through.

People

Finding gifted people to investigate important ideas is the main
business of the Center. The principal task is the difficult but stimu-
lating search for men and women with the right combination of
discipline, dedication, and focus.

Happily, there has been gratifying variety among fellows in the
last year. Though their number is small (thirty-five fellows at a

313
time is customary), different backgrounds and cultures are always
present. The past year we have welcomed a marine engineer from
the navy with the world’s record for deep-sea diving; the former
attorney general of the United States; former head of the Chilean
Christian Democratic Party; former presidents of Johns Hopkins
University and of the American Political Science Association;
active leaders of major international studies programs in New Delhi,
Tokyo, and Oxford; distinguished scholars of international law
from Australia, France, Israel, and Poland; and thoughtful journal-
ists writing major books on European-American relations, re-
gionalism in America, and the reporting of news in Washington,
Dre

Program

From the beginning, the Center has sought to reserve some of its
fellowships for certain areas of special emphasis. In May 1974, the
Board of Trustees formally adopted the recommendations of a
committee chaired by Paul McCracken that the Center be organized
into three broadly defined scholarly divisions: Historical and Cul-
tural Studies; Social and Political Studies; and Resources, Environ-
ment, and Interdependence. This arrangement creates no permanent
positions or restrictive barriers within our interdisciplinary body,
but it will enable us to plan for a balanced company of fellows
chosen by panels with relevant disciplinary qualifications.
Historical and Cultural Studies represent the new humanistic
thrust of the Center. There are three special areas of emphasis
within this division. First is a cluster of scholars working on the
period of the American Revolution and the early constitution,
which has given the Center a bicentennial focus well before the
national celebrations are scheduled to begin. Three fellows working
at the Center on projects in the period of the American Revolution
devised and put together on behalf of the Center scholarly mate-
rials and an intellectual framework for a special session of the
House of Representatives on September 25, 1974, commemorating
the 200th anniversary of the First Continental Congress. Jack
Greene compiled the special publication of documents and Martin
Diamond provided the commentary on nationwide public television

314 / Smithsonian Year 1975
for what was, in effect, the opening event in the celebration of the
Nation’s 200th birthday.

In the memorial to an internationalist president it is fitting to
focus special attention on key areas of concern abroad. Thus, the
Board of Trustees established in December 1974, under the leader-
ship of Center fellow George Kennan, a new Institute for Ad-
vanced Russian Studies. Mr. Kennan’s unique stature as the senior
scholar-statesman of Soviet-American relations makes him a
uniquely appropriate chairman of the advisory council for this new
effort within the Center. Assembling a small but superior group of
fellows in this area will permit greater use of the unmatched re-
sources in Washington, and will hopefully serve as a fresh catalyst
for the continuing national effort to understand better the other
great superpower.

A third special area within the Historical and Cultural Studies
division will consider the role of the visual media (film and tele-
vision) in contemporary culture. On the basis of extensive staff
study and the counsel of outside advisors, the Center decided late
in 1974 to encourage applications in this area through the regular
fellowship competition.

Social and Political Studies is the division dealing with areas that
specially interested Woodrow Wilson as both a scholar and states-
man. In response to a Board decision to devote special attention to
the institutions of American government as they enter their third
century, the Center launched a special program in State and Local
Government in 1973. Careful staff study and an outside advisory
group helped devise a program to encourage scholarly studies by
practitioners. By mid-1974 a company of five were pursuing indi-
vidual studies in this area at the Center. Elliot Richardson was the
first fellow in this division and became chairman of the outside
advisory group. Substantial funding for the program was provided
by the Ford Foundation.

Other studies in this division have dealt with government insti-
tutions at the federal level—ranging from philosophical analysis
of proportional representation by a professor from Cologne to an
interview-based study of management techniques in the United
States executive branch by a professor from Glasgow.

Resources, Environment, and Interdependence, the third division
of the Center, includes subjects specially emphasized by the Center

Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars / 315
in its formative early years: uses of the oceans, problems of the
environment, and the prospects for sustainable economic growth.
Significant work has been done at the Center in these areas—
particularly in preparing for international conferences, producing
informed awareness of key problems, and sponsoring public pre-
sentations and meetings at the Center (as well as two conferences
each at Wingspread, Wisconsin, and Ditchley, England). After
reviewing work at the Center in these areas, the Board reaffirmed,
in June 1974, its continued commitment to further study in the
fields covered by this division.

Communication

The determination to communicate is second only in the life of this
Center to the prior, basic need to gather people with something
worth saying. We were gratified that the Congress authorized a
modest increase in the Center’s appropriation for fiscal year 1975
to create a new program of “public service’’-—the main purpose of
which is to share more broadly the fruits of the fellows’ scholarship.

Every fellow at the Center has a major individual project. Publi-
cation of the results of these projects is one of the Center’s major
goals.

There are also other types of publications—some of them more
widely read than traditional scholarly monographs. Scores of major
articles in magazines and dozens of smaller pieces have been
published.

Our desire systematically to disseminate thoughtful, short pieces
by Center fellows led the Board in December 1974 to authorize the
founding of a quarterly journal by the Center. Peter Braestrup, a
distinguished journalist and fellow of the Center, will edit this
new publishing venture, which should begin to appear in 1975.

Another area of planned Center publication lies in the field of
scholarly inventories. The Center followed bibliographical work
in the environmental area with a worldwide survey of research in
progress on the subject of sustainable growth. The first version of
this inventory was rapidly exhausted when it appeared this past
year, and a final revised version will be completed early in 1975.

316 / Smithsonian Year 1975
The Center also plans to begin preparing in 1975 the first of perhaps
several readable guides to Washington resources as a service to the
entire scholarly community.

A basic rule for all meetings at the Center is that they must
assume the form of dialogue. Unlike Universities, where the basic
form of intellectual exchange is still the lecture-monologue, the
Center insists that all public discourse involve more than one
speaker in some form of structured exchange. There are basically
three types of dialogue at the Center:

Pre-luncheon discussions are held every Tuesday and Friday pro-
viding an opportunity for informal, internal discussion among the
fellows and with a variety of distinguished guests. Informal dia-
logue has been notably enriched at the Center during this past year
by the establishment of a new buffet-dining room for Center fellows
in the fourth floor seminar room of the “Castle” building.

Late afternoon colloquia on work-in-progress are generally given
by all fellows at some time in the course of their stay at the Center.
A fellow also serves at some time as the appointed critic of another’s
presentation, focussing discussion on key ideas rather than minor
debating points. Attendance at these sessions is purely optional,
but generally high.

Evening dialogues provide an opportunity, thanks to a generous
grant from the Xerox Corporation, to assemble carefully invited
groups of thirty to thirty-five persons for the sustained discussion
of questions of fundamental importance. These evenings begin with
an uninterrupted dialogue of more than an hour among two or
three specially qualified speakers. After dinner, members of the
public and others join the discussion at a deeper level than is pos-
sible under the pressure of day-to-day work. The evening dialogues
have been taped by Radio Smithsonian and broadcast over public
radio.

Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars / 317
Smithsonian Year « 1975

JOHN F. KENNEDY CENTER
FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS

ROGER L. STEVENS, CHAIRMAN

SINCE SEPTEMBER 6, 1971, when the Kennedy Center opened with
the first preview of Leonard Bernstein’s Mass, more than 4000 per-
formances, nearly 6,000,000 opera-, ballet-, concert-, and theater-
goers, an estimated 12,000,000 sightseers, and a host of national
programs have affirmed the viability of the dual concept of national
cultural center and living memorial.

The Center’s first four seasons have not been without moments
of trial, as might be expected in such a massive and unprecedented
undertaking, but public response has proved extraordinarily favor-
able and support, almost overwhelming. It is particularly satisfying
to note that the Nation’s Capital has gained, at long last, a proper
national and international reputation for the quality of its perform-
ing arts facilities and activities.

The Center’s 1974-1975 season proved the most successful thus
far and set the stage for a series of exciting projects and programs
to come. A total of 1041 performances were presented in the three
major halls from July 1, 1974, through June 30, 1975. These in-
cluded 619 performances of drama and musical comedy, 167 sym-
phony concerts, 30 performances of 14 operas, 98 performances of
dance, 25 recitals, 29 choral concerts, 44 concerts of popular music,
12 chamber concerts, 8 performances of mime, 4 variety, and 5
comedy programs.

The theater season presented a spectacular array of performers
and productions. During the summer months, three musical revivals
—I Do! I Do!, starring Carol Burnett and Rock Hudson, Seesaw,

318
Mstislav Rostropovich acknowledges a thunderous ovation.
Photo: Richard Braaten

with John Gavin and Lucie Arnaz, and Gypsy, with Angela Lans-
bury in her Tony Award-winning role—played to capacity audi-
ences in the Opera House, while in the Eisenhower Theater, Sir
Ralph Richardson starred in William Douglas Home’s delightful
comedy, Lloyd George Knew My Father, and Eva Marie Saint gave
a stunning performance in her third Center production, O’Neill’s
Desire Under the Elms.

In September, the Center welcomed Geraldine Page, Sandy
Dennis, and Richard Kiley in Alan Ayckbourn’s hilarious comedy,
Absurd Person Singular, which has subsequently enjoyed tremen-
dous success on Broadway. The enormously talented John Wood
followed in the title role of the Royal Shakespeare Company pro-
duction of Sherlock Holmes, and the incomparable Donald Sinden
delighted audiences in another Royal Shakespeare production,
London Assurance.

Bernadette Peters and Robert Preston starred in a new musical,
Mack and Mabel, based upon the lives of filmmaker Mack Sennett
and his leading lady, Mabel Normand, and returning as stars of
Terence Rattigan’s moving drama, In Praise of Love, were Rex
Harrison and Julie Harris, who had each appeared previously in the
Opera House.

Deborah Kerr spent her second consecutive Christmas season at
the Center, starring with Barry Nelson in Edward Albee’s new play,
Seascape, and Yul Brynner and Joan Diener played the Opera
House for an unprecedented six weeks in the Center-produced
musical, Odyssey, prior to an eight-month national tour.

The late winter months featured the New Phoenix Repertory
Company’s production of Carson McCuller’s The Member of the
Wedding and Owen's Song, a spirited production presented by
Washington’s Workshops for Careers in the Arts. Elizabeth Ashley
displayed her considerable talent as Maggie in a critically acclaimed,
post-Broadway engagement of Cat on a Hot Tin Roof, and Ingrid
Bergman made a welcome return to the Opera House in Somerset
Maugham’s stylish comedy, The Constant Wife.

Diana Rigg and Alec McCowen starred in a sparkling British
National Theatre production of Moliere’s The Misanthrope, and
James Earl Jones and Kevin Conway subsequently led a fine cast
in John Steinbeck’s shattering drama, Of Mice and Men.

320 / Smithsonian Year 1975

During April, the seventh annual American College Theatre
Festival presented ten outstanding college and university produc-
tions, which were selected during a series of regional festivals in
which over 330 schools participated. Included in this year’s activi-
ties were the presentation of the winning play in the William Morris
Agency’s New Playwriting Award Competition, Medea: A Noh
Cycle Based on the Greek Myth, the annual Irene Ryan Scholarship
program, in which thirteen student actors competed for two $2,000
scholarships provided from a fund established by the late Irene
Ryan, and a series of symposia in playwriting and drama criticism
for students, made possible by a grant from the National Endow-
ment for the Arts. Sponsored by amoco, the Festival is presented
each year by the Kennedy Center, the Alliance for Arts Education,
and the Smithsonian Institution and is produced by the American
Theatre Association.

Douglas Fairbanks, Jr., who scored such a success in the Center’s
1972 production of The Pleasure of His Company, returned to close
the 1975 season with a record-breaking run of Noel Coward’s mar-
velous comedy, Present Laughter.

The musical season was no less spectacular with concerts by
twenty-one major orchestras and appearances by such renowned
artists as Rudolf Serkin, Van Cliburn, Elizabeth Schwarzkopf,
Pierre Cochereau, Marilyn Horne, and Andres Segovia.

A unique five-day festival offered audiences an extraordinary
opportunity to observe and enjoy the multifaceted talents of
Mstislav Rostropovich. During the festival, Rostropovich appeared
in solo cello recital, in his American debut as symphony conductor,
as piano accompanist to his wife, Galina Vishnevskaya, one of the
world’s foremost sopranos, and as chamber-orchestra conductor
and cello soloist. To the delight of all, it was announced shortly
after the close of the festival that Rostropovich would assume
artistic leadership of the Center’s resident National Symphony
Orchestra in 1977.

A Schoenberg-Ives Festival, sponsored by the Alliance for Arts
Education, paid tribute to the two musical giants of the twentieth
century on the occasion of the one-hundredth anniversary of their
births and featured a series of eight free performances by univer-
sity and conservatory orchestras. Each performance was preceded

John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts / 321
by an open symposium, during which the performers and conduc-
tors discussed their programs and exchanged ideas with members
of the audience.

The opera season opened with four Rome Piccolo Opera produc-
tions, [1 Maestro di Cappella, La Cambiale di matrimonio, II Filosofo
di Campagna, and Il Mercato di Malmantile, presented as a part
of the Venetian Festival. This festival, made possible through the
generosity of the Morris and Gwendolyn Cafritz Foundation and
presented in cooperation with the Italian government, featured
many of the most glorious musical works of the Renaissance and
Baroque periods.

As its contribution to the Venetian Festival, the Opera Society
of Washington presented a revival of its much-acclaimed produc-
tion of Monteverdi’s L’Incoronazione di Poppea. The Society sub-
sequently continued its season with productions of Die Walkiire
and Salome.

The New York City Opera paid its annual visit to the Center in
late spring and presented a total of seven productions, including
Bellini’s I Puritani, with Beverly Sills, Manon Lescaut, Madama
Butterfly, Die Fledermaus, La Traviata, Die Tote Stadt, and The
Consul.

A brilliant dance season featured six of the world’s foremost
companies: the American Ballet Theatre, with such artists as Mi-
khail Baryshnikov, Cynthia Gregory, and Natalia Makarova; the
New York City Ballet; the Alvin Ailey City Center Dance Theatre;
the Joffrey Ballet; the Stuttgart Ballet; and the spectacular Bolshoi
Ballet.

One of the most heartening developments over the past four
years has been the phenomenal growth of the Washington dance
audience. Prior to the Center’s completion, major dance companies
were unable to perform in Washington for lack of an adequate
facility. Now, such companies are virtually assured capacity audi-
ences and an exceptionally enthusiastic response.

Obviously, such programming as was presented during the 1974—
1975 season is not without considerable expense. The Center is
solely dependent upon income from theater operations, concession
revenue, and private contributions for its performing arts activities,
and support from the private sector is critically important to the
carrying out of an extensive public service program.

322 / Smithsonian Year 1975
American Ballet Theatre principal dancers, Mikhail Baryshnikov and Gelsey Kirkland.
Photo: Richard Braaten

During the past year, the Center has been the grateful recipient
of a number of major programming grants. Mobil Oil Corporation
generously sponsored the annual holiday festival, “The Twelve
Days of Christmas,” which featured over forty free performances
staged throughout each day of the twelve-day period. One event,
the enormously popular “Messiah Sing-In,” drew a capacity Con-
cert Hall audience and was broadcast to hundreds of additional
listeners in the Grand Foyer.

The Center has also continued to host Mobil’s series of weekly
National Town Meetings, which afford citizens and leaders a fas-
cinating opportunity to debate and discuss topics of major national
interest.

McDonald’s Restaurants, sponsor of the Center’s two previous
Christmas festivals, provided funding for a week-long ‘Spring

y

Festival of American Music,” as the company’s gift to the tens of
thousands of visitors to Washington during Easter week. The
Spring Festival, with a total of thirty-five free performances, drew
over 35,000 people and included music from all periods of American
history. Highlighting the festival, which officially launched the Cen-
ter’s Bicentennial celebration, was a performance of the works of
Aaron Copeland, conducted by the composer himself.

In an extraordinary gesture, Xerox Corporation announced plans
to underwrite the Center’s entire 1975-1976 theater season. Entitled
‘American Bicentennial Theatre,” the season will include ten excit-
ing productions of American plays and will draw upon the talents
of some of the most outstanding performers and directors in the
American theater. With the help of Xerox, the Center will be, for
the first time, in a position to produce an entire theater season
itself.

1BM has very generously provided funding for another major
Bicentennial project, an exhibition entitled “America On Stage:
200 Years of the Performing Arts.” The exhibition, scheduled to
open in December 1975, will be housed on the Center’s roof-terrace
level and will reflect the history and development of the American
performing arts experience.

Exxon has provided a grant for a “bicentennial Parade of Ameri-
can Music,” conceived and produced by the National Music Council
and featuring free concerts by performing groups from each of the

324 / Smithsonian Year 1975
Members of “The Fast-Flying Vestibule” perform during the Spring Festival
of American Music. Photo: Richard Braaten
fifty states and the District of Columbia. In addition, the corpora-
tion has agreed to underwrite three major concerts and two oper-
ettas during the Bicentennial season.

The Prudential Insurance Company of America will sponsor a
cavalcade of American song, dance, and legend, entitled ‘Sing
America Sing.’”” The production, written and directed by Oscar
Brand, will be presented in the Concert Hall during a two-week
period in September.

The Morris and Gwendolyn Cafritz Foundation not only spon-
sored the Venetian Festival but generously provided a grant which
will enable the Center to present the legendary Bolshoi Opera to
Washington audiences during July 1975. The Opera, with a com-
pany of more than 450, will appear only in Washington and New
York.

Not all gifts to the Center during the past year have been pro-
gram-related. In November, the government of Colombia formally
presented a striking metal sculpture, by Colombian sculptor Eduardo
Ramirez, for the south lawn. The Center has also received two
stunning, hand-crafted oil lamps from the government of Sri Lanka
and six magnificent wool carpets from the government of Morocco.
The China Institute in America, Inc., has generously undertaken
the decoration of a Chinese Room on the second tier of the Concert
Hall.

By the very nature of its establishing legislation, the Kennedy
Center is far more than a series of theaters and a tourist attraction,
and its educational responsibilities are keenly felt.

As a part of its educational endeavor, the Center distributed over
140,000 tickets during 1974-1975, through its Specially Priced
Ticket Program. This program, designed to make the Center’s per-
formances accessible to all, regardless of economic circumstances,
enables students, the handicapped, retired persons over the age of
sixty-five, military personnel in the lower grades, and low-income
groups to purchase tickets at half price.

A series of free, daytime programs have been developed in an
effort to provide sightseers with a performing-arts experience dur-
ing their visit to the Center. In addition to festival programming,
there are weekly demonstrations of the workings of the Concert
Hall’s Filene Memorial Organ, with participation by area organists.

326 / Smithsonian Year 1975
These demonstrations are co-sponsored by the Friends of the Ken-
nedy Center and the National Park Service.

During 1974-1975, weekly performing-arts seminars were spon-
sored by the Friends of the Kennedy Center, the National Sym-
phony Orchestra, and the Park Service. The seminars were designed
to provide an additional forum for the brilliant performers who
appear at the Center and an opportunity for local audiences and
the thousands of visitors to gain a deeper understanding and appre-
ciation of the arts through an immediate exchange with these artists.

The Center also welcomed over 50,000 Washington-area school-
children to a series of free concerts, sponsored by the National
Symphony Orchestra and the Washington Performing Arts Society.

The national Alliance for Arts Education, a joint project of the
Department of Health, Education, and Welfare and the Kennedy
Center, was established in 1973 to help the Center fulfill its Con-
gressional mandate ‘‘to develop programs in the arts for children
and youth which are designed specifically for their participation,
education and recreation.”

The aae is concerned with and dedicated to furthering the arts
as a major ingredient in the education of every child and to fostering
cooperation between institutions and programs which are similarly
involved. To achieve its purpose, the aae has established com-
mittees in the District of Columbia, the Bureau of Indian Affairs,
and forty-eight states. These committees are responsible for devel-
oping and assisting in the implementation of comprehensive state
arts programs.

On the national level, the Center provides opportunities for
demonstration programs and representative performance activities
through a National aazt Showcase series. During the summer of
1974, eighteen groups representing theater, music, dance, film, and
aesthetic and perceptual education, visual arts, and arts programs
for the mentally retarded were included in Showcase activities,
which ranged from elementary through college levels. Throughout
the year, the aae also sponsored a number of free performances in
close cooperation with the Friends of the Kennedy Center and the
National Park Service.

In addition to involvement in special programs, the Friends of
the Kennedy Center provide vital support to a myriad of Center

John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts / 327
projects and activities. The Friends, established as the Center’s
auxiliary organization in 1966, now number over 10,000. Volunteer
members have given literally thousands of hours of their time con-
ducting tours, providing information, managing souvenir stands,
and overseeing the Specially Priced Ticket Program.

During 1974-1975, the Friends and the National Park Service
provided information, assistance, and hospitality to over 2.5 million
visitors. The National Park Service, which assumed responsibility
for maintaining the Center as a national memorial in 1972, has
enhanced the operation enormously by carrying out vital main-
tenance, security, information, and interpretation functions. The
Park Service is reimbursed by the Center for the performing-arts
portion of maintenance costs.

Although organizationally a bureau of the Smithsonian Institu-
tion, the Center is administered separately by a forty-five-member
Board of Trustees, composed of thirty members appointed by the
President to ten-year overlapping terms and fifteen members ex-
officio from pertinent government agencies, the Senate, and the
House of Representatives.

During the past year, President Ford reappointed Frank N. Ikard,
Mrs. Stephen Smith, and Ms. Donna J. Stone and also named as
members The Honorable Peter H. B. Frelinghuysen, The Honorable
J. William Fulbright, R. Phillip Hanes, Jr., and The Honorable Mel-
vin Laird. Both Mr. Frelinghuysen and Mr. Fulbright have pre-
viously served as ex-officio members.

The President of the Senate has appointed The Honorable Ed-
ward M. Kennedy to represent the Senate, and The Honorable
Marvin L. Esch has been named by the Speaker of the House to
represent the House of Representatives.

Mrs. Gerald R. Ford has graciously consented to serve as Honor-
ary Chairman of the Center and joins Mrs. Dwight D. Eisenhower,
Mrs. Aristotle Onassis, Mrs. Lyndon B. Johnson, and Mrs. Richard
Nixon in that capacity.

By unanimous vote, the Board of Trustees elected Mrs. George
A. Garrett the Center’s first and only Honorary Trustee, in recog-
nition of her years of dedicated service to the institution. Mrs.
Garrett served as a member of the Board from 1958 until 1975.

Members of the Board of Trustees at the close of fiscal year 1975
are as follows:

328 / Smithsonian Year 1975
Roger L. Stevens, Chairman Mrs. Michael J. Mansfield

Richard Adler Mrs. J. Willard Marriott

Ralph E. Becker Harry C. McPherson, Jr.

Terrel H. Bell Robert I. Millonzi

J. Carter Brown The Honorable Charles H. Percy
Mrs. Edward F. Cox The Honorable John Richardson, Jr.
Ralph W. Ellison The Honorable S. Dillon Ripley II
The Honorable Marvin L. Esch The Honorable Teno Roncalio

Gary E. Everhardt Arthur M. Schlesinger, Jr.

Mrs. J. Clifford Folger Mrs. Jouett Shouse

The Honorable Abe Fortas Mrs. Stephen E. Smith

The Honorable Peter H. B. Frelinghuysen Ms. Donna J. Stone

The Honorable J. William Fulbright Henry Strong

Leonard H. Goldenson William H. Thomas

R. Phillip Hanes, Jr. The Honorable Frank Thompson, Jr.
Mrs. Rebekah Harkness Benjamin A. Trustman

Mrs. Paul H. Hatch The Honorable John V. Tunney
Frank N. Ikard Jack J. Valenti

The Honorable Edward M. Kennedy The Honorable Walter E. Washington
The Honorable Thomas H. Kuchel Lew R. Wasserman

The Honorable Melvin R. Laird The Honorable Caspar W. Weinberger
Gustave L. Levy Mrs. Jack Wrather

John G. Lorenz

John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts / 329
The Repentant Magdalen by Georges de La Tour (detail).
Ailsa Mellon Bruce Fund 1974.
Smithsonian Year - 1975

NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART

J. CARTER BROWN, DIRECTOR

THE NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART, although formally established as a
bureau of the Smithsonian Institution, is an autonomous and sepa-
rately administered organization. It is governed by its own Board of
Trustees, the statutory members of which are the Chief Justice of
the United States, Chairman; the Secretary of State; the Secretary
of the Treasury; and the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution,
all ex officio; and five general trustees. Paul Mellon continued as
president of the Gallery and John Hay Whitney as vice president.
The other general trustees continuing to serve were Carlisle H.
Humelsine, Dr. Franklin D. Murphy, and Stoddard M. Stevens.

During the fiscal year 1975 the Gallery had over 1,827,300
visitors.

A number of important works of art were acquired. By far the
most significant—in fact, the most important single acquisition
since Leonardo’s Ginevra de’Benci in 1967—was Georges de La
Tour’s The Repentant Magdalen (1640), purchased after lengthy
negotiations with the owner and the French government, which in
the end graciously permitted its export.

Seven works of sculpture were added to the collection including
a della Porta bronze of Pope Paul III and Saint-Gauden’s bronze
Diana of the Tower.

Among the 987 works of graphic art acquired were thirty-seven
drawings, among them Guercino’s powerful Fisherman and a
Jordaens watercolor. The 950 prints accessioned included Vuillard’s
Tuileries Garden, Nolde’s Candle-Dancer and several important
works by Piranesi.

331
Eleven exhibitions were shown at the Gallery during the year,
including six important loan shows. By far the most significant in
terms of popular attraction and general historical interest was the
“Exhibition of Archaeological Finds of The People’s Republic of
China” which, in fifteen midwinter weeks, drew 685,000 viewers.
The exhibitions are listed at the close of this section.

From its collections, the Gallery made loans to thirty-eight exhi-
bitions at fifty-three institutions including eight abroad. Included
were forty-eight paintings, two sculptures, and 293 graphics.

A newly created Extension Program Development Department
headed by Joseph J. Reis, former Director of Education at the Mil-
waukee Art Center, began its task of forward planning, production
and revision of the audio-visual programs circulated nationally by
the Gallery. The total number of bookings of Extension Service
materials, film strips, slide lectures and films was 27,088. The total
estimated audience in all fifty states and abroad was nearly three
million. Another educational program, Art and Man, published in
cooperation with Scholastic Magazines, Inc., reached over four
thousand classrooms in every state-

Total attendance at talks given by the Gallery’s Education De-
partment and at the programs presented in the auditorium was
163,728. These included the regularly scheduled auditorium lectures
and films, the Introduction to the Collection, the Tour of the
Week, and Painting of the Week, as well as special introductory
presentations keyed to three of the exhibitions. There were thirty-
three guest lecturers including the twenty-third annual A. W.
Mellon Lecturer in the Fine Arts, H. C. Robbins Landon, who
gave a series of seven lectures with slides and musical excerpts
entitled “Music in Europe in 1776.” Other distinguished scholars
from abroad who lectured included Carl Nordenfalk, Sir John
Pope-Hennessey, and Sir Ellis Waterhouse, the Kress Professor in
Residence.

The Conservation staff had a busy year restoring important
works of art, surveying paintings in the Gallery and on protracted
loans elsewhere, fitting desiccants to many of the cases holding
the treasures in the Chinese archaeological exhibition, as well as
detailed planning for the new and substantially enlarged con-
servation laboratory on which construction is expected to start
in the fall of 1976 in the Gallery’s main building.

332 / Smithsonian Year 1975
The Research Project at Carnegie-Mellon University continues
to provide technical advice on polymers, pigments and illumina-
tion to museums both in the United States and abroad, in the past
year assisting the Library of Congress, the Corning Museum of
Glass, Museum of Modern Art, Art Institute of Chicago, Walters
Art Gallery, Carnegie Museum, and the Society for the Preservation
of New England Antiquities.

In the Library the year was marked by the acquisition from Milan
of the Reti Library, one of the world’s finest collections of material
on Leonardo. More than four thousand other books and pamphlets
were received in addition to 83,260 photographs for the Photo-
graphic Archives.

The Publications Room had a banner year selling over eighty
thousand of the illustrated catalogues of the Chinese exhibition
and handling 498,325 over-the-counter orders and 6891 mail orders.

The Music Program continued to draw enthusiastic audiences
and critical acclaim. Forty Sunday evening concerts were presented,
including five world premieres and seventeen first Washington per-
formances of works by a total of nineteen composers. String en-
sembles from the National Gallery Orchestra played on four other
public occasions. Radio Station wems broadcast each concert, all but
two live.

During the year the main outlines of the new East Building took
form above Pennsylvania Avenue and the Mall. The eastern tower
rose to roof level, and the Study Center construction reached the
seventh of its eight levels above grade. The huge trusses that con-
nect the towers along the Pennsylvania Avenue and Fourth Street
facades were put into place in the autumn. The exterior marble
covered much of the building to the third level and part of the
south wall to the fifth.

The concourse-cafeteria area progressed rapidly once the trace
of Fourth Street was restored to its original alignment. Excavation
and foundation mat were completed, and, by June, this connecting
link between the present building and the new East Building was
almost entirely covered over at plaza level by form-work or com-
pleted pours of concrete.

National Gallery of Art / 333
EXHIBITIONS AT RHE NATION ALTG ALLERY ss OR VARdy
FISGALy WEAK 1975

American Textiles: Watercolors from the Index of American Design
Continued from the previous fiscal year through July 15, 1974.

Recent Acquisitions and Promised Gifts: Sculpture, Drawings, Prints
Continued from the previous fiscal year through August 4, 1974.

African Art and Motion
Continued from the previous fiscal year through September 22, 1974.

M. C. Escher Prints
July 26 through December 30, 1974.

Venetian Drawings from American Collections
September 29 through November 24, 1974.

The Exhibition of Archaeological Finds of The People’s Republic of
China
December 13, 1974, through March 30, 1975.

Rubens, Van Dyck & Jordaens: Prints & Drawings
January 8 through February 19, 1975.

“The Sick Girl,” by Edvard Munch
January 23 through March 6, 1975.

Medieval and Renaissance Miniatures from the National Gallery of Art
January 26 through March 23, 1975.

Lithographs Printed at the Tamarind Workshop, Inc., Los Angeles
February 21 through the end of the fiscal year.

Jacques Callot: Prints and Related Drawings
June 29, 1975, through the end of the fiscal year.

Board of Trustees

EX OFFICIO

The Chief Justice of the United States
Warren E. Burger, Chairman

The Secretary of State
Henry A. Kissinger

The Secretary of the Treasury
William E. Simon

The Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution
S. Dillon Ripley

GENERAL
Carlisle H. Humelsine
Paul Mellon

Franklin D. Murphy
Stoddard M. Stevens
John Hay Whitney

334 / Smithsonian Year 1975
14.

15.

Smithsonian Year * 1975

APPENDICES

Members of the Smithsonian Council, Boards, page 336

and Commissions, June 30, 1975

Smithsonian Special Foreign Currency Program Research
Supported in Fiscal Year 1975

National Museum Act Grants Awarded in Fiscal Year 1975

Progress on Building Construction, Restoration, and
Renovation

Publications of the Smithsonian Institution Press
in Fiscal Year 1975

Bibliography of Research Supported Through the
Facilities of the Smithsonian Tropical Research
Institute Marine Laboratories During Their First
Ten Years, 1965-1975

Publications of the Smithsonian Institution Staff
in Fiscal Year 1975

Selected Contributions of the Smithsonian Institution Staff
in Fiscal Year 1975

Fellows and Guest Scholars of the Woodrow Wilson
International Center for Scholars Since Its Inception,
October 1970, Through June 1975

Academic Appointments, 1974-1975
Staff of the Smithsonian Institution, June 30, 1975
Smithsonian Associates Membership, 1974-1975

List of Donors to the Smithsonian Institution
in Fiscal Year 1975

List of Volunteers Who Served the
Smithsonian Institution in Fiscal Year 1975

Visitors to the Smithsonian Institution in Fiscal Year 1975

335

344

347
350

352

363

373
426

468
470
478

504
514

971

590
APPENDIX 1. Members of the Smithsonian Council, Boards,
and Commissions, June 30, 1975

Smithsonian Institution Board of Regents

Warren E. Burger, Chief Justice of the United States, Chancellor
Nelson A. Rockefeller, Vice President of the United States
Frank E. Moss, Member of the Senate

Henry M. Jackson, Member of the Senate

Hugh Scott, Member of the Senate

George H. Mahon, Member of the House of Representatives
Elford A. Cederberg, Member of the House of Representatives
Sidney R. Yates, Member of the House of Representatives
John Paul Austin, citizen of Georgia

John Nicholas Brown, citizen of Rhode Island

William A. M. Burden, citizen of New York

Robert F. Goheen, citizen of New Jersey

Murray Gell-Mann, citizen of California

Caryl P. Haskins, citizen of Washington, D.C.

A. Leon Higginbotham, Jr., citizen of Pennsylvania

Thomas J. Watson, Jr., citizen of Connecticut

James E. Webb, citizen of Washington, D.C.

Executive Committee, Board of Regents

Warren E. Burger, Chancellor of the Board of Regents
William A. M. Burden

Caryl P. Haskins

James E. Webb, Chairman

The Smithsonian Council

Dr. Roger D. Abrahams. Chairman, Department of English, Professor of Eng-
lish and Anthropology, The University of Texas, Austin, Texas.

Dr. H. Harvard Arnason. Art Historian, River Road, Roxbury, Connecticut
(Honorary Member).

Professor George A. Bartholomew. Department of Zoology, University of Cali-
fornia, Los Angeles, California.

Dr. Muriel M. Berman. Civic, art, and college affairs, “20 Hundred” Notting-
ham Road, Allentown, Pennsylvania (Honorary Member).

Dr. Herman R. Branson. President, Lincoln University, Pennsylvania (Honor-
ary Member).

Dr. Frederick H. Burkhardt. President Emeritus, American Council of Learned
Societies, RFD #1, Bennington, Vermont.

Professor Archie F. Carr, Jr. Department of Biology, University of Florida,
Gainesville, Florida.

Professor Carl W. Condit. Center for Urban Affairs, Northwestern University,
Evanston, Illinois.

336 / Smithsonian Year 1975
Mrs. Camille W. Cook. Assistant Dean, University of Alabama School of Law,
Alabama.

Ms. Anne d’Harnoncourt, Curator, Philadelphia Museum of Art, Parkway at
26th Street, P.O. Box 7646, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.

Professor Fred R. Eggan. Department of Anthropology, University of Chicago,
Chicago, Illinois.

Dr. Donald S. Farner. Chairman, Department of Zoology, University of Wash-
ington, Seattle, Washington (Honorary Member).

Professor Anthony N. B. Garvan. Chairman, Department of American Civiliza-
tion, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania (Honorary
Member).

Dr. Murray Gell-Mann. California Institute of Technology, Pasadena, Cali-
fornia.

Dr. Peter C. Goldmark. Goldmark Communications Corporation, Stamford,
Connecticut.

Dr. Frank B. Golley. Executive Director, Institute of Ecology, University of
Georgia, Athens, Georgia.

Dr. Philip Handler. President, National Academy of Sciences, Washington,
D.C. (Honorary Member).

Dr. David Hawkins. Director, Mountain View Center for Environmental Edu-
cation, University of Colorado, Boulder, Colorado.

Professor Nathan I. Huggins. Department of History, Columbia University,

New York, New York.

Dr. Jan LaRue. Director of Graduate Studies, Department of Music, New York
University, New York, New York (Honorary Member).

Dr. James L. Liverman. Director, Division of Biomedical and Environmental
Research, U.S. Atomic Energy Commission, Washington, D.C.

Dr. Clifford L. Lord. President, Hofstra University, Hempstead, New York
(Honorary Member).

Dr. Giles W. Mead. Director, Los Angeles County, Museum of Natural His-
tory, Los Angeles, California.

Professor Charles D. Michener. Lawrence, Kansas (Honorary Member).

Dr. Peter M. Millman. Ontario, Canada (Honorary Member).

Dr. Ruth Patrick. Chairman of the Board, The Academy of Natural Sciences,
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.

Professor Norman Holmes Pearson. Department of English and American
Studies, Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut.

Dr. Gordon N. Ray. President, John Simon Guggenheim Memorial Foundation,
New York, New York.

Mr. Philip C. Ritterbush. Center for the Study of Popular Education and
Recreation, Wallpack Village, New Jersey (Honorary Member).

Mr. Harold Rosenberg. Art Critic, New Yorker Magazine, New York, New
York.

Professor Carl E. Sagan, Director, Laboratory of Planetary Studies, Space Sci-
ences Building, Cornell University, Ithaca, New York.

Mr. Andre Schiffrin. Managing Director, Pantheon Books, New York, New
York.

Mr. George C. Seybolt. President, Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, Massachusetts
(Honorary Member).

Professor Cyril Stanley Smith. Institute Professor, Massachusetts Institute of
Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts.

Professor John D. Spikes. Salt Lake City, Utah (Honorary Member).

Professor Stephen E. Toulmin. Professor in the Committee on Social Thought,
University of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois.

Mrs. Barbara W. Tuchman. Author, New York, New York.

Appendix 1. Smithsonian Council, Boards, and Commissions / 337
Dr. William Von Arx. Senior Scientist, Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution,
Massachusetts (Honorary Member).

Professor Warren H. Wagner, Jr. Ann Arbor, Michigan (Honorary Member).

Dr. Rainer Zangerl. Chairman, Department of Geology, Field Museum of
Natural History, Chicago, Illinois (Honorary Member).

Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory Visiting Committee

Dean Harvey Brooks, Chairman, Harvard University, Cambridge, Massa-
chusetts.

Mr. Thomas J. Watson, IBM Corporation, New York, New York.

Dr. Murray Gell-Mann, California Institute of Technology, Pasadena, Cali-
fornia.

Dr. Walter Orr Roberts, University Corporation for Atmospheric Research,
Boulder, Colorado.

Mr. Benjamin C. Nash, Nash Engineering Corporation, Norwalk, Connecticut

Anacostia Neighborhood Museum Board of Directors

OFFICERS

Mr. Stanley Anderson, Chairperson

Mr. John Blake, Vice-Chairperson

Mr. Almore Dale, Treasurer

Ms. Iris Harris, Secretary

Mr. Terry Coleman, Corresponding Secretary
Mr. Richard Jones, At-Large (Youth)

Mr. Alton Jones, At-Large

MEMBERS

Rev. James Anderson Mr. Fred Hill

Mr. Donald Ball Mr. Edward Hope

Mr. Percy Battle Mrs. Theresa Howe Jones
Mrs. Carlyn Bingham Mrs. Della Lowery

Mr. Norman Dale Mr. Curtis Magruder

Mr. Nat Dixon Mrs. Caryl Marsh

Mrs. Annette Doolittle Mrs. Francis Mason-Jones
Mrs. Isabella Edwards Mrs. Cecelia Matthews
Hon. John D. Fauntleroy Mr. Russell Paxton

Mr. Robert Fields Dr. Charles Qualls

Mrs. Mildred Jones Fisher Mr. Fred Saunders

Mrs. Mary Gregory Mrs. Lillian Smallwood
Mr. Charles Grimes Mr. Charles Stephenson
Mrs. Mary Hammond Mrs. Esther Sullivan

Archives of American Art Board of Trustees

Mrs. Otto L. Spaeth, Chairman Harold O. Love

Irving F. Burton, President Russell Lynes

Mrs. Alfred Negley, Vice President Abraham Melamed

Mrs. E. Bliss Parkinson, Vice President Mrs. Dana M. Raymond
Henry DeF. Baldwin, Secretary Mrs. William L. Richards
Joel Ehrenkranz, Treasurer Stephen Shalom

Joseph H. Hirshhorn
James Humphry III
Miss Milka Iconomoff
Gilbert H. Kinney
Howard W. Lipman

338 / Smithsonian Year 1975

Stanford C. Stoddard
Edward M. M. Warburg
George H. Waterman III
S. Dillon Ripley, ex officio
Charles Blitzer, ex officio
FOUNDING TRUSTEES

Lawrence A. Fleischman
Mrs. Edsel B. Ford
E. P. Richardson

Archives of American Art Advisory Committee

James Humphry III, Chairman Russell Lynes

Milton W. Brown A. Hyatt Mayor
Frederick Cummings Barbara Novak

Anne d’Harnoncourt Jules Prown

Lloyd Goodrich J. T. Rankin

Eugene C. Goossen Charles van Ravenswaay
James J. Heslin Marvin S. Sadik

John Howat Joshua C. Taylor
Bernard Karpel William B. Walker

John A. Kouwenhoven Richard P. Wunder

Abram Lerner

Center for the Study of Man
National Anthropological Film Center Advisory Council

Dr. Margaret Mead, The American Museum of Natural History, New York.

Dr. Sol Tax, Professor of Anthropology, University of Chicago.

Dr. George Spindler, Professor of Anthropology, Stanford University.

Dr. Jay Ruby, President, Society for the Anthropology of Visual Communica-
tion, c/o Temple University, Philadelphia.

Mr. Carroll Williams, Director, Anthropology Film Center, Santa Fe, New
Mexico.

Dr. Edward Hall, Professor of Anthropology, Northwestern University.

Dr. Gordon Gibson, Curator of African Ethnology, Smithsonian Institution.

Dr. Asen Balikci, Professor of Anthropology, University of Montreal.

Dr. Paul Hockings, Associate Professor of Anthropology, University of Illinois
at Chicago Circle.

Mr. Matthew Huxley, National Institute of Mental Health.

Mrs. Emilie de Brigard, Guest Director, Anthropological Cinema, Department
of Film, Museum of Modern Art, New York.

Dr. William Crocker, Department of Anthropology, Smithsonian Institution.

Dr. Fuller Torrey, National Institute of Mental Health.

Cooper-Hewitt Museum of Decorative Arts and Design
Advisory Board

Thomas E. Murray II, Mrs. Howard Sachs

Chairman Pro Tem Mrs. Emily Stillman
Cass Canfield, Jr. Robert C. Weaver
Albert L. Edelman S. Dillon Ripley, Secretary,
Sidney Gruson Smithsonian Institution, ex officio
Mrs. Matthew A. Meyer Mrs. Margaret Carnegie Miller,
Mrs. Miles Pennybacker Honorary Member

Freer Visiting Committee

The Honorable Hugh Scott, Chairman, United States Senate, Washington, D.C.
Mr. Laurence Sickman, Assistant Chairman, Director, William Rockhill Nelson
Gallery of Art, 4525 Oak Street, Kansas City, Missouri.

Appendix 1. Smithsonian Council, Boards, and Commissions / 339
Mrs. Jackson Burke, 3 East 77th Street, New York, New York.

Professor Kwang-chih Chang, Department of Anthropology, Yale University,
New Haven, Connecticut.

Professor Marvin Eisenberg, Department of the History of Art, University of
Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan.

Mrs. Katharine Graham, Publisher, The Washington Post, 1515 L Street, N.W.,
Washington, D.C.

Mr. Charles A. Greenfield, 150 East 69th Street, New York, New York.

Professor John M. Rosenfield, Fogg Art Museum, Harvard University, Cam-
bridge, Massachusetts.

Mr. John S. Thacher, 1692 Thirty-First Street, N.W., Washington, D.C.

Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden
Board of Trustees

Daniel P. Moynihan, Anne d’Harnoncourt
Chairman* Taft B. Schreiber
George Heard Hamilton, Hal B. Wallis
Vice Chairman* (Term expires 6/30/75)
H. Harvard Arnason Thomas Mellon Evans
Leigh B. Block (Term begins 7/1/75)**

Theodore E. Cummings
Warren E. Burger, Chief Justice of the United States, ex officio
S. Dillon Ripley, Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, ex officio

* Reelected at meeting of the Board of Trustees, April 4, 1975.
** Appointed at meeting of the Board of Trustees, April 4, 1975.

Horticultural Advisory Committee*

S. Dillon Ripley, Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, ex officio.

Dr. Robert Baker, Professor of Horticulture, University of Maryland.

James R. Buckler, Horticulturist, Smithsonian Institution.

Mr. Jimmie L. Crowe, Assistant Director, U.S. Botanic Gardens.

Mrs. Frances Patteson-Knight, Lay Horticulturist, McLean, Virginia.

Dr. Robert Read, Associate Curator, Smithsonian Institution, Department of
Botany.

Dr. Russell Seibert, Director, Longwood Gardens, Kennett Square, Penn-
sylvania.

Mrs. Belva Jensen, Director, Division of Biological Sciences, Charles County
Community College.

Mr. Carlton Lees, Vice President, New York Botanic Gardens.

Mr. Lester Collins, Landscape Architect, Washington, D.C.

* Established by the Secretary in January 1974. Committee meets April and

September of each year except for special meetings.

John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts

Members of the Board of Trustees are given on page 329.
National Air and Space Museum Advisory Board

EX OFFICIO

S. Dillon Ripley, Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, Chairman

340 / Smithsonian Year 1975
Brigadier General James L. Collins, Chief of Military History, Department of
the Army, Washington, D.C.

Major General Edward S. Fris, Deputy Chief of Staff (Air), United States
Marine Corps, Washington, D.C.

Vice Admiral William D. Houser, Deputy Chief of Naval Operations (Air
Warfare), Department of the Navy, Washington, D.C.

Mr. Jefferson W. Cochran, Associate Administrator for Engineering and De-
velopment (FAA), Department of Transportation, Washington, D.C.

Major General M. R. Reilly, Commander, Headquarters Command USAF,
Bolling Air Force Base, Washington, D.C.

Rear Admiral Robert H. Scarborough, Chief, Office of Operations, United
States Coast Guard, Washington, D.C.

Mr. Willis H. Shapley, Associate Deputy Administrator, National Aero-
nautics and Space Administration, Washington, D.C.

CITIZEN MEMBERS

Mrs. O. A. Beech, Chairman of the Board, Beech Aircraft Corporation,
Wichita, Kansas.

Lieutenant General William E. Hall, USAF (Ret), 883 S.W. Meadowbrook
Road, Palm Bay, Florida.

Lieutenant General Elwood R. Quesada, USAF (Ret), 490 L’enfant Plaza East,
S.W., Suite 2207, Washington, D.C.

National Armed Forces Museum Advisory Board

John Nicholas Brown, Chairman

Secretary of the Army

Secretary of the Navy

Secretary of the Air Force

Alexander P. Butterfield

William H. Perkins, Jr.

Secretary of Defense, ex officio

Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, ex officio

National Collection of Fine Arts Commission

H. Page Cross, Chairman Thomas C. Howe
George B. Tatum, Vice Chairman Mrs. Jaquelin H. Hume
S. Dillon Ripley, Secretary David Lloyd Kreeger
Mrs. Elizabeth Brook Blake Abram Lerner, ex officio
Thomas S. Buechner Mrs. Doris M. Magowan
David E. Finley Henry P. Mcllhenny
Martin Friedman Ogden M. Pleissner
Lloyd Goodrich Harold Rosenberg
Walker Hancock Charles H. Sawyer
Bartlett H. Hayes, Jr. Mrs. Otto L. Spaeth
August Heckscher Otto Wittman
HONORARY MEMBERS
Alexander Wetmore Stow Wengenroth
Paul Mellon Andrew Wyeth
National Gallery of Art

Members of the Board of Trustees are given on page 334.

Appendix 1. Smithsonian Council, Boards, and Commissions / 341
National Museum Act Advisory Council

Paul N. Perrot, Chairman Larence J. Majewski*
William T. Alderson Taizo Miake*

Joseph M. Chamberlain Arminia Neal

W. D. Frankforter Bonnie Louise Pitman
Lloyd Hezekiah* Barnes Riznik

Philip S. Humphrey Mitchell Wilder

* Term expires at the end of fiscal year 1975.

National Portrait Gallery Commission

John Nicholas Brown, Chairman Katie Louchheim

Ralph Ellison Barry Bingham, Sr.

David E. Finley Warren E. Burger, Chief Justice of
Wilmarth Sheldon Lewis the United States, ex officio
Robert L. McNeil, Jr. S. Dillon Ripley, Secretary,

Andrew Oliver Smithsonian Institution, ex officio
E. P. Richardson J. Carter Brown, Director,

Robert Hilton Smith National Gallery of Art, ex officio

Office of International Programs,
Smithsonian Foreign Currency Program Advisory Councils

ARCHEOLOGY AND RELATED DISCIPLINES
ADVISORY COUNCIL

Dr. Klaus Baer Professor Henry S. Robinson
Dr. Iwao Ishino Dr. Bernard Wailes
Professor Joseph W. Elder Dr. William Fitzhugh

ASTROPHYSICS AND EARTH SCIENCES
ADVISORY COUNCIL

Dr. Felix Chayes Dr. William Melson

Dr. Henry Faul Professor Thornton Page

Dr. Paul Hodge Dr. Victor Szebehely

Dr. William H. Klein Dr. Louis Walter
BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES ADVISORY COUNCIL

Dr. Edwin Colbert Dr. Jerry F. Franklin

Professor Kenneth W. Cooper Dr. Robert F. Inger

Dr. John F. Eisenberg Dr. Watson M. Laetsch

Professor Peter W. Frank Dr. Duncan M. Porter

NATIONAL MUSEUM ACT ADVISORY COUNCIL

(See listing above under National Museum Act Advisory Council.)

Smithsonian Associates National Board*

Lewis A. Lapham, Chairman Joseph F.-Cullman 3rd
Robert O. Anderson Harry B. Cunningham
Harry Hood Bassett Paul L. Davies
Richard P. Cooley Thomas M. Evans

* This body was created in October 1971 to assist the Institution in the pursuit of
certain of its aims for the decade of the 1970s, particularly in the development of its
relations with industry.

342 / Smithsonian Year 1975
Leonard K. Firestone George C. McGhee

Charles T. Fisher III Mrs. Robert S. McNamara
G. Keith Funston Ruben F. Mettler

Alfred C. Glassell, Jr. Charles M. Pigott

Mrs. David L. Guyer Mrs. Malcolm Price
Henry J. Heinz II Francis C. Rooney, Jr.
William A. Hewitt Merritt Kirk Ruddock
John N. Irwin II Thomas J. Watson, Jr.
Frank Y. Larkin James O. Wright

Smithsonian Science Information Exchange, Incorporated,
Board of Directors

Dr. David Challinor, Chairman of the Board, Assistant Secretary for Science,
Smithsonian Institution.

Dr. Robert A. Brooks, Under Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.

Dr. Lee G. Burchinal, Head, Office of Science Information Service, National
Science Foundation.

Dr. David F. Hersey, President, Smithsonian Science Information Exchange,
Inc.

Mr. S. Dillon Ripley, Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.

Dr. R. W. Lamont-Havers, Acting Deputy Director, National Institutes of
Health.

Dr. Charles W. Shilling, Executive Secretary, Undersea Medical Society, Inc.

Mr. Alan D. Ullberg, Assistant General Counsel, Smithsonian Institution.

Mr. T. Ames Wheeler, Treasurer, Smithsonian Institution.

Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars
Board of Trustees

William J. Baroody, Chairman.

Daniel P. Moynihan, Vice Chairman.

William M. Batten, New York, New York.

Ronald S. Berman, Chairman, National Endowment for the Humanities.
Robert H. Bork, Washington, D.C.

Robert A. Goldwin, Special Consultant to the President.

Bryce N. Harlow, Washington, D.C.

Henry A. Kissinger, Secretary of State.

Paul W. McCracken, Ann Arbor, Michigan.

L. Quincy Mumford, Librarian of Congress.

James B. Rhoads, Archivist of the United States.

S. Dillon Ripley, Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.

Dean Rusk, University of Georgia Law School.

Rawleigh Warner, Jr., New York, New York.

Caspar W. Weinberger, Secretary of Health, Education and Welfare.

Appendix 1. Smithsonian Council, Boards, and Commissions / 343
APPENDIX 2. Smithsonian Special Foreign Currency Program
Research Supported in Fiscal Year 1975

ARCHEOLOGY AND RELATED DISCIPLINES

American Institute of Indian Studies, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Continued
support for administration; research fellowships; Benares Center for Art and
Archeology; documentation of selected ritual art forms as communication sys-
tems of traditional culture; recording and filming an Agnicayana ritual in India.

American Museum of Natural History, New York, New York. Excavation at the
Harappan site of Allahdino in the Malir Area, Karachi District, Pakistan.

American Research Center in Egypt, Princeton, New Jersey. Continued support
for a program of research and excavation in Egypt: support for operation of the
Cairo Center; maintenance of archeological research at the site of Hierakonpolis
(Nekhen) in Edfu District; survey of Arabic scientific manuscripts in Cairo;
maintenance of a stratified pharaonic site in the Egyptian delta at Mendes;
Akhenaten Temple project; research in modern Arabic literature; continuation
of an epigraphic and architectural survey at Luxor by the Oriental Institute;
editing the Nag Hammadi codices; installation and completion of the Luxor
Museum; preparation for publication of a manuscript by the late G. Legrain on
the Late Egyptian sculpture from Karnak in the Cairo Museum; support for
fellowships in Egyptian and Islamic studies.

American Schools of Oriental Research, Cambridge, Massachusetts. Excavations
in salient areas of Punic and Roman Carthage (Tunisia).

Dumbarton Oaks Center for Byzantine Studies, Washington, D.C. A corpus of
the ancient mosaics of Tunisia.

National Museum of Natural History, Department of Anthropology, Washing-
ton, D.C. Ethnotechnology of South Asia: Pakistan project.

Southern Methodist University, Dallas, Texas. Prehistory of the Western Desert,
Egypt.

University of California, Berkeley, California. Archeological excavations at the
Harappan seaport of Balakot, Pakistan.

University of Louisville, Louisville, Kentucky. Research and study of early
medieval Polish archeology.

University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan. A scrutiny of Egyptian gold
coins ...in the collection of the Museum of Islamic Art in Cairo (Egypt).

University of Texas at Arlington, Arlington, Texas. Studies in predynastic
Egypt.

Wayne State University, Detroit, Michigan. Prehistoric studies in the Siwa oasis
region, Northwestern Egypt.

344 / Smithsonian Year 1975
SYSTEMATIC AND ENVIRONMENTAL BIOLOGY
(INCLUDING PALEOBIOLOGY)

Harvard University, Museum of Comparative Zoology, Cambridge, Massachu-
setts. Study of the dentition of Cretaceous mammals of Mongolia (Poland).

National Museum of Natural History, Department of Botany, Washington, D.C.
Revision of Trimen’s Handbook to the Flora of Ceylon; publication of the Flora
of Hassan District (India).

National Museum of Natural History, Department of Entomology, Washington,
D.C. Biosystematic studies of the insects of Ceylon.

National Museum of Natural History, Department of Paleobiology, Washington,
D.C. Comparative study and geography of selected Devonian and Permian
corals in Poland and the United States of America.

Oregon State University, Corvallis, Oregon. Activity budget studies of Passer
populations in Poland.

Smithsonian Institution, Office of the Secretary, Washington, D.C. Indian mi-
gratory bird project.

Smithsonian Oceanographic Sorting Center, Washington, D.C. Mediterranean
Marine Sorting Center (Tunisia) ; study of biological productivity in some tropi-
cal lakes of South India.

Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, Balboa, Canal Zone. Ecology of fresh-
water lakes in Panama (Poland).

Southern Methodist University, Dallas, Texas. Recovery and study of vertebrate
fossils from the Egyptian Western Desert.

The Institute of Ecology, Madison, Wisconsin. Support for international re-
search coordination and synthesis by United States scientists participating in
the International Biological Program (Egypt, India, Poland, Tunisia).

University of Arizona, Tucson, Arizona. Population biology and cytogenetics of
desert mammals.

University of California, Berkeley, California. A biosystematic comparison of
the Siphonocladales (Chlorophyta) (Tunisia); comparative study of Late Cre-
taceous Mongolian and North American mammals (Poland).

University of Colorado, Boulder, Colorado. Paleontological research in Tunisia
and the Western Mediterranean.

University of Hawaii, Honolulu, Hawaii. Investigation of the alpheid shrimp of
Pakistan.

University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan. Systematic studies of the mol-
luscan genus Bulinus in Africa and adjacent regions (Egypt).

University of Wisconsin, Madison, Wisconsin. Integration of ecosystem analysis
with studies of agro-ecosystems.

Utah State University, Logan, Utah. Systems analysis of the Pre-Saharan
ecosystem of Southern Tunisia.

Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut. Preliminary study of the behavioral
biology and ecology of Pakistan’s Himalayan Foothill Rhesus monkeys.

Appendix 2. Smithsonian Foreign Currency Program / 345
ASTROPHYSICS AND EARTH SCIENCES

Duke University, Durham, North Carolina. Studies in Lake of Tunis.

Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory, Cambridge, Massachusetts. Continued
operation of the SAO/Uttar Pradesh State observing station at Naini Tal
(India) ; establishing the position of the Polish latitude observatory at Borowiec
by artificial satellite observations; reference coordinate systems for earth dy-
namics (Poland).

University of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois. Nucleosynthesis and the advanced
stages of stellar evolution (Poland).

University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Geochronology of alka-
line complexes of the Southeastern desert of Egypt.

MUSEUM PROGRAMS

Festival of American Folklife, Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D.C. Old
ways in the New World (Egypt, Poland, Tunisia).

National Archives Trust Fund, Washington, D.C. Preparation of animated edu-
cational film, “What is an archives?” (Poland)

National Museum of History and Technology, Department of Science and Tech-
nology, Washington, D.C. Study of Arabic manuscripts on medicine and phar-
macy in Egypt.

National Portrait Gallery, Washington, D.C. Support of the National Portrait
Gallery Bicentennial exhibit catalogue. (Poland)

National Trust for Historic Preservation, Washington, D.C. The advanced study
of conservation and restoration methods applied to historic monuments and
sites in Poland.

National Zoological Park, Washington, D.C. Preparation of animated educa-
tional film for new Lion-Tiger exhibit. (Poland)

Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory, Cambridge, Massachusetts. Smith-
sonian around the world (India).

Smithsonian Institution, Office of the Assistant Secretary for Museum Pro-
grams, Washington, D.C. Polish-American seminar on organization systems
and methodology for preserving cultural property. (Poland)

Smithsonian Institution, Smithsonian Magazine. Development of educational
articles for Smithsonian Magazine on research abroad supported by the Smith-
sonian Foreign Currency Program (Egypt, Pakistan).

Theater in the Street, Inc., New York, New York. A study of street theater
around the world. (India)

346 / Smithsonian Year 1975
APPENDIX 3. National Museum Act Grants Awarded in
Fiscal Year 1975

TRAVEL/EXCHANGE PROGRAM

The Baltimore Museum of Art, Baltimore, Maryland 21218. Amount: $16,000.00.

Buffalo and Erie County Historical Society, Buffalo, New York 14216. Amount:
$8,000.00.

Art Museum, Indiana University Foundation, Indiana University, Bloomington,
Indiana 47401. Amount: $485.00.

Neversink Valley Area Museum, Cuddebackville, New York 12729. Amount:
$871.00.

Texas A and I University, Kingsville, Texas 78363. Amount: $2,436.00.
Mendocino County Museum, Willits, California 95490. Amount: $880.00.
Fernbank Science Center, Atlanta, Georgia 30307. Amount: $1,163.00.

Oklahoma Science and Arts Foundation, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma 73107.
Amount: $938.00.

Washington Archaeological Research Center, Ozette Archaeological Project,
Neah Bay Laboratory, Neah Bay, Washington 98357. Amount: $3,600.00.*

Saint-Gaudens National Historic Site, Windsor, Vermont 05089. Amount:
$1,819.00.

Junior Arts Center, Los Angeles, California 90027. Amount: $1,040.00.

Huntington Library, Art Gallery and Botanical Gardens, San Marino, California
91108. Amount: $1,500.00.*

Texas Historical Commission, Austin, Texas 78711. Amount: $1,800.00.

The Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York, New York 10028. Amount:
$1,350.00.

Museum of Northern Arizona, Flagstaff, Arizona 86001. Amount: $1,450.00.*

SEMINAR/WORKSHOP TRAINING PROGRAM

American Association of Zoological Parks and Aquariums, Wheeling, West Vir-
ginia 26003. Amount: $11,296.00.

University of Science and Arts of Oklahoma, Chickasha, Oklahoma 73108.
Amount: $11,380.00.

Oregon Historical Society, Portland, Oregon 97205. Amount: $1,600.00.

Texas Historical Commission and Winedale Inn, Austin, Texas 78711. Amount:
$6,107.00.

* Denotes conservation-related projects.

Appendix 3. National Museum Act Grants Awarded / 347
Western Association of Art Museums, Mills College, Oakland, California 94613.
Amount: $20,297.00.
American Association for State and Local History, Nashville, Tennessee 37203.
Amount: $49,450.00.

American Association of Mammalogists, American Museum of Natural History,
New York, New York 10024. Amount: $12,500.00.

American Association of Museums, Washington, D.C. 20007. Amount:
$30,581.00.

New York State Historical Association, Cooperstown, New York 13326. Amount:
$1,500.00.

National Trust for Historic Preservation, Washington, D.C. 20006. Amount:
$12,500.00.

Museums Collaborative, Inc., New York, New York 10021. Amount: $14,138.00.

Association of Science-Technology Centers, Washington, D.C. 20037. Amount:
$10,000.00.

The American Numismatic Society, New York, New York 10032. Amount:
$14,130.00.*

Washington Region Conservation Guild, Washington, D.C. 20003. Amount:
$1,300.00.*

Association of Science-Technology Centers, Washington, D.C. 20037. Amount:
$4,000.00.

STIPEND SUPPORT FOR GRADUATE/PROFESSIONAL
TRAINING AND FELLOWSHIPS

Conservation Center of the Institute of Fine Arts, New York University, New
York, New York 10021. Amount: $42,000.00*

University of Delaware, Newark, Delaware 19711. Amount: $8,000.00.

The George Washington University, Office of Sponsored Research, Washington,
D.C. 20006. Amount: $8,000.00.

New York State Historical Association, Cooperstown, New York 13326. Amount:
$35,000.00.

Museum Associates, Los Angeles County Museum of Art, Los Angeles, Cali-
fornia 90036. Amount: $10,200.00.

University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan 48055. Amount: $18,000.00.

SPECIAL STUDIES AND RESEARCH PROGRAM

Conservation Center, Institute of Fine Arts, New York University, New York,
New York 10021. Amount: $14,000.00.*

Tekart Associates, University of California, San Diego, La Jolla, California
92037. Amount: $8,284.00.*

Museum of the Hudson Highlands, The Cornwall Neighborhood Museum Asso-
ciation, Cornwall-on-Hudson, New York 12520. Amount: $1,500.00.

American Association for State and Local History, Nashville, Tennessee 37203.
Amount: $43,544.00.*

348 / Smithsonian Year 1975

American Association of Youth Museums, Charlotte Nature Museum, Charlotte,
North Carolina 28209. Amount: $25,556.00.

The Heckscher Museum, Huntington, New York 11743. Amount: $23,110.00.*

New York State Historical Association, Cooperstown, New York 13326. Amount:
$5,000.00.

PROFESSIONAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM

AAM/ICOM (American Association of Museums/International Council of
Museums), Washington, D.C. 20007. Amount: $10,000.00.

National Conservation Advisory Council, Greenfield Village and Henry Ford
Museum, Dearborn, Michigan 48121. Amount: $27,282.00.*

American Association for State and Local History, Nashville, Tennessee 37203.
Amounts: $26,418.00 and $35,880.00.

American Association of Museums, Washington, D.C. 20007. Amount:
$29,297.00.

The Association of Systematics Collections, University of Kansas, Museum of
Natural History, Lawrence, Kansas 66045. Amount: $13,589.00.

New England Regional Conference/AAM, c/o Maine State Museum, State
House, Augusta, Maine 04330. Amount: $22,010.00.

National Conservation Advisory Council, c/o Greenfield Village and Henry
Ford Museum, Dearborn, Michigan 48121. Amounts: $6,750.00 and $56,874.00.*

American Association of Museums, Washington, D.C. 20007. Amounts:
$28,349.00 and $3,100.00.

Appendix 3. National Museum Act Grants Awarded / 349
APPENDIX 4. Progress on Building Construction, Restoration,
and Renovation

Anacostia Neighborhood Museum. The construction of the Exhibit Design and
Production Laboratory was completed in April 1975. Additional work for in-
terior partitioning and painting will be initiated in early fiscal year 1976.

Arts and Industries Building. Major phase of restoration work is 65 percent
completed. Scheduled completion is February of 1976. Major roof and window
repairs to be initiated in fiscal year 1976 for completion that year.

Chesapeake Bay Center for Environmental Studies. Construction of the Visitor
Center and Dormitory facility was completed in March 1975.

Cooper-Hewitt Museum of Decorative Arts and Design. Renovation of the
Carnegie Mansion was initiated in September 1974. The major phase of the
work will be completed in October 1975.

History and Technology Building. Museum sales shop was completed in May
1975. Library plans completed with construction to be initiated by June or July
of 1975. Completion scheduled for three months after starting date. Plans for
sixth-floor addition are 60 percent completed. Completion scheduled for latter
part of fiscal year 1976.

National Air and Space Museum. Construction is 99 percent completed. In
April 1975, NAsM started occupancy of several exhibit and administrative areas.
The building is scheduled for public opening in July 1976.

National Zoological Park. Renovation of the Monkey House was completed and
it was opened to the public on May 24, 1975. Also, during fiscal year 1975 con-
struction work continued on the Lion-Tiger Exhibit which will cost nearly
$3 million and will be completed by January 1976. Contracts also were awarded
for reconstruction of exterior yards around the Elephant House and the Bird
House.

Major renovation projects completed during fiscal year 1975 included painting
the Great Flight Cage, replacing glass and painting in the Reptile House, mak-
ing improvements in the Marmoset House, and completing the Cheetah yards.

The architect continued preparation of plans for major Master Plan improve-
ments including the Education-Administration Building; bear exhibits; general
services and parking facility; and exhibits for beavers, sea lions, and wolves.

Natural History Building. The West Court facility is under construction, and
work will be completed by May 1976. North Foyer alterations including installa-
tion of escalator are underway, and work is to be completed by October 1975.
Construction in the East Court of the Osteology Laboratory is progressing, and
work is to be completed by August 1975.

350 / Smithsonian Year 1975
Silver Hill Facility. Construction of Buildings #24 and #25 were completed in
April 1975. Additional work for construction of mezzanine is to be completed by
August 1975.

South Yard. Demolition and first-phase construction of South Yard area to be
initiated in July 1975. Completion scheduled for latter part of fiscal year 1976,
prior to Bicentennial celebration.

Bicentennial Exhibit Construction. The exhibits “Nation of Nations,” “We the
People,” “Centennial 1876,” and “Our Changing Land” are all nearing con-
struction completion in fiscal year 1976.

Appendix 4. Progress on Building Construction / 351
APPENDIX 5. Publications of the Smithsonian Institution Press
in Fiscal Year 1975

GENERAL PUBLICATIONS

TRADE PUBLICATIONS

Peter Bermingham. American Art in the Barbizon Mood. 192 pages, 4 color and
143 black-and-white illustrations. April 30, 1975. Cloth: $20.00.

Wilton S. Dillon, editor. The Cultural Drama: Modern Identities and Social
Ferment. Foreword by S. Dillon Ripley. 328 pages, 13 black-and-white illus-
trations. October 28, 1974. Cloth: $17.50.

Owen Gingerich, editor. The Nature of Scientific Discovery. 616 pages, 110
black-and-white illustrations. June 10, 1975. Cloth: $15.00.

James M. Goode. The Outdoor Sculpture of Washington, D.C. A Compre-
hensive Historical Guide. 632 pages, 516 black-and-white illustrations (cloth);
528 pages, 455 black-and-white illustrations (paper). September 17, 1974.
Cloth: $15.00; paper: $4.95.

Luis G. Lumbreras. The Peoples and Culture of Ancient Peru. Translated by
Betty J. Meggers. vii + 248 pages, 372 black-and-white illustrations. Oc-
tober 10, 1974. Cloth: $15.00.

J. Jefferson Miller II. English Yellow-Glazed Earthenware. xviii + 126 pages,
60 color and 74 black-and-white illustrations. March 18, 1975. Cloth: $20.00.

Lillian B. Miller. “The Dye is Now Cast...” The Road to American Inde-
pendence, 1774-1776. xvi + 328 pages, 166 black-and-white illustrations.
May 30, 1975. Cloth: $17.50.

John R. Swanton. The Indian Tribes of North America. vi + 726 pages, 5
maps. Fourth reprint. May 15, 1975. Cloth: $20.00.

Joshua S. Taylor. To See Is To Think: Looking at American Art. 120 pages,
7 color and 88 black-and-white illustrations. June 24, 1975. Cloth: $10.00;
paper: $4.95.

ANNUAL REPORTS

American Historical Association. Annual Report, 1973. xvi + 166 pages. De-
cember 20, 1974. Paper: $1.90.

National Zoological Park. National Zoological Park 18-Month Report. July 1,
1971-December 31, 1972. vi + 66 pages, 66 black-and-white illustrations, 2
tables. January 13, 1975.

Smithsonian Institution. Smithsonian Year 1974. Annual Report of the Smith-
sonian Institution for the Year Ended June 30, 1974. vii + 500 pages, 117
black-and-white illustrations. January 15, 1975. Paper: $6.65.

Smithsonian International Exchange Service. 1974 Annual Report. 8 pages.
March 12, 1975.

352 / Smithsonian Year 1975

T. Ames Wheeler, Treasurer. Smithsonian Institution Financial Report for
Fiscal Year 1974: As Published in Smithsonian Year 1974. 36 pages. Janu-
ary 15, 1975.

Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars. Annual Report 1973-1974.
iv + 60 pages, 18 black-and-white illustrations. February 10, 1975.

EXHIBITION CATALOGUES
Anacostia Neighborhood Museum

The Barnett-Aden Collection. 192 pages, 15 color and 136 black-and-white il-
lustrations. March 17, 1975. Paper: $10.00.

Exhibition 1974-75. 45 pages, 77 black-and-white illustrations. December 11,
1974. Paper: $1.70.

National Collection of Fine Arts

Peter Bermingham. American Art in the Barbizon Mood. 192 pages, 4 color
and 143 black-and-white illustrations. January 16, 1975. Paper: $7.70.

Lois Marie Fink, and Joshua C. Taylor. Academy: The Academic Tradition in
American Art. 272 pages, 212 black-and-white illustrations. June 4, 1975.
Paper: $7.30.

Chaim Gross: Sculpture and Drawings. 47 pages, 2 color and 27 black-and-
white illustrations. September 19, 1974. Paper: $2.75.

Made in Chicago. 80 pages, 11 color and 46 black-and-white illustrations. No-
vember 15, 1974. Paper: $4.40.

Pennsylvania Academy Moderns: 1910-1940. 40 pages, 2 color and 41 black-
and-white illustrations. May 7, 1975. Paper: $2.00.
National Museum of History and Technology

Cynthia A. Hoover. Music Machines: American Style. 140 pages, 237 black-
and-white illustrations. Reprint. July 16, 1974. Paper: $2.75.

Claudia B. Kidwell, and Margaret C. Christman. Suiting Everyone: The
Democratization of Clothing in America. 208 pages, 59 color and 279 black-
and-white illustrations. September 17, 1974. Paper: $11.05.

Joanna Cohan Scherer. Indian Images: Photographs of North American
Indians, 1847-1928. National Anthropological Archives. 31 pages, 14 black-
and-white illustrations. Reprint. March 4, 1975. Paper: $1.05.

We the People: The American People and Their Government. 164 pages, 6
color and 304 black-and-white illustrations. June 3, 1975. Paper: $1.75.
National Portrait Gallery

Black Presence. 72 pages, 50 black-and-white illustrations. Reprint. July 13,
1974. Paper: $2.05.

Lillian B. Miller. “The Dye is Now Cast...” The Road to American Inde-
pendence, 1774-1776. xvi + 328 pages, 166 black-and-white illustrations.
April 17, 1975. Paper: $11.25.

Renwick Gallery of the National Collection of Fine Arts

A Modern Consciousness: D. J. DePree and Florence Knoll. 32 pages, 30
black-and-white illustrations. June 17, 1975. Paper: $1.80.

Boxes and Bowls: Decorated Containers by Nineteenth Century Haida, Tlingit,

Appendix 5. Publications of the Smithsonian Press / 353
Bella Bella, and Tsimshian Indian Artists. 96 pages, 47 black-and-white illus-
trations. November 22, 1974. Paper: $3.95.

Shaker: Furniture and Objects from the Faith and Edward Deming Andrews
Collections Commemorating the Bicentennial of the American Shakers. 88
pages, 1 color and 66 black-and-white illustrations. Reprint. May 27, 1975.
Cloth: $14.95.

EXHIBITION CHECKLISTS

National Collection of Fine Arts

Eight from California. 18 pages, 8 black-and-white illustrations. January 21,
1975.

Horatio Shaw, 1847-1918. 7 pages, 6 black-and-white illustrations. Septem-
ber 11, 1974.

Ilya Bolotowsky. 4 pages, 1 color and 1 black-and-white illustration. Janu-
ary 14, 1975.

Two Decades of American Prints: 1920-1940. 12 pages, 1 black-and-white
illustration. September 16, 1974.
National Museum of History and Technology

Etching as a Painter's Medium in the 1880's. 4 pages, 2 black-and-white illus-
trations. August 16, 1974.

Lead and Zinc Mining Scenes of the Past: Oil Paintings by Carol Riley. 4
pages, 1 black-and-white illustration. December 17, 1974.

Mr. Audubon and Mr. Bien: An Early Phase in the History of American
Chromolithography. 11 pages, 2 color illustrations. March 14, 1975.
Renwick Gallery of the National Collection of Fine Arts

Paintings in the Grand Salon and Octagon Room of the Renwick Gallery, Lent
by the Corcoran Gallery of Art. 4 pages, 1 black-and-white illustration. Re-
print. March 11, 1975.

BOOKS

Bicentennial Office
The American Experience. Smithsonian Institution American Revolution Bicen-
tennial Program. 88 pages, 20 black-and-white illustrations. February 7, 1975.
Division of Performing Arts
Smithsonian Institution Festival of American Folklife: A Bicentennial Presen-
tation. 44 pages, 8 black-and-white illustrations. June, 1975.
Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden
The Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, Smithsonian Institution. 50
pages. September 19, 1974.
National Museum of History and Technology

A Checklist of Keyboard Instruments at the Smithsonian Institution. Division
of Musical Instruments. viii + 87 pages, 7 figures. May 1, 1975. Paper: $2.00.

Carl H. Scheele. Neither Snow, Nor Rain ... The Story of the United States
Mails. Hall of Stamps and Mails. iv + 100 pages, 86 black-and-white illus-
trations. Reprint. September 6, 1974. Paper: $1.80.

354 / Smithsonian Year 1975
National Museum of Natural History
J. Meester, and H. W. Setzer, editors. The Mammals of Africa: An Identifica-
tion Manual. Fascicle III of V. Parts 1.2, 1.3, 1.4, 1.5, 3, 3.2, 6, 11, and 14. Loose-
leaf Inserts. August 29, 1974. Paper: $5.00.

Office of Academic Studies

Smithsonian Opportunities for Research and Study in History—Art—Science.
141 pages. October 21, 1974.

Office of International and Environmental Programs

Peter H. Freeman: Coastal Zone Pollution by Oil and Other Contaminants:
Guidelines for Policy and Planning. Based Upon a Case Study in Indonesia in
1973. x + 68 pages, 2 figures, 10 tables. May 16, 1975.

The Environmental Impact of a Large Tropical Reservoir: Guidelines for
Policy and Planning. Based Upon a Study of Lake Volta, Ghana, in 1973 and
1974. viii + 88 pages, 6 figures, 7 plates, 6 tables. May 19, 1975.

The Environmental Impact of Rapid Urbanization: Guidelines for Policy and
Planning. Based Upon a Study of Seoul, Korea, in 1972 and 1973. xii + 88
pages, 4 figures, 6 plates, 19 tables. May 19, 1975.

Office of Protection Services
Smithsonian Institution Police and Guard Manual and Regulations for the
Security Force. v + 82 pages. Reprint. December 31, 1974.

Office of Public Affairs
Increase and Diffusion: A Brief Introduction to the Smithsonian Institution. 99
pages, 33 black-and-white illustrations. June 13, 1975.

Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service
Update: Bicentennial News. 48 pages, 86 black-and-white illustrations. May 16,
1975.

BOOKLETS

Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden
Looking at Abstract Art: A Tour To Give Yourself. 7 pages, 6 black-and-white
illustrations. September 30, 1974.

National Air and Space Museum
Otto Lilienthal and Octave Chanute: Pioneers of Gliding. 6 pages, 6 black-
and-white illustrations. January 6, 1975.

National Museum of History and Technology

Audrey B. Davis. The Dentist and His Tools. 11 pages, 29 figures. November 8,
1974. Paper: $0.75.

A Nation of Nations. 8 pages, 2 black-and-white illustrations. November 1,
1974.
National Portrait Gallery

In the Minds and Hearts of the People: Prologue to Revolution, 1780-1774.
A teacher’s guide. 6 pages, 3 black-and-white illustrations. Septemer 19, 1974.
Paper: $1.45.

Appendix 5. Publications of the Smithsonian Press / 355
Office of Museum Programs

Conservation Information. 6 pages. June 16, 1975.

Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service

Update: Bicentennial Special. 28 pages, 51 black-and-white illustrations.
August 12, 1974.

Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars

Fellowship and Guest Scholar Program. 12 pages. March 11, 1975.

FOLDERS

Anacostia Neighborhood Museum

Fifth Annual D.C. Art Association Exhibition Calendar of Events. Novem-
ber 13, 1974.

Chesapeake Bay Center for Environmental Studies

Animal Adaptations: Insects and Spiders. 17 black-and-white illustrations.
September 11, 1974.

Community Comparison: Forest and Old Field. 10 black-and-white illustra-
tions. September 11, 1974.

Seeing the Trees for the Forest: A Census Activity. 8 black-and-white illus-
trations. September 11, 1974.

Division of Performing Arts

The Smithsonian Institution Performance Service. Folder with 9 inserts.
April 4, 1975.

Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden

Highlights from the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden. 11 black-and-
white illustrations. September 30, 1974.

Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, Smithsonian Institution. Floor plan.
6 black-and-white illustrations. February 18, 1975.

The Lower Level. 12 biack-and-white illustrations. September 30, 1974.

Newsletter of the Hishhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden. 6 black-and-white
illustrations. July 29, 1974.

The Plaza. 8 black-and-white illustrations. September 30, 1974.

The Second Floor. 14 black-and-white illustrations. September 30, 1974.
Sunday Lecture Series. 1 black-and-white illustration. February 18, 1975.
Third Floor. 10 black-and-white illustrations. September 30, 1974.

National Air and Space Museum
Amelia Earhart. 4 black-and-white illustrations. January 6, 1975.

Life in the Universe: Holiday Lecture Series for High School Students. 5 black-
and-white illustrations. December 23, 1974.

North American P-51 Mustang. 17 black-and-white illustrations. January 27,
1975.

356 / Smithsonian Year 1975
National Collection of Fine Arts
A Future for Our Past: The Conservation of Art. July 5, 1974.

Bicentennial Inventory of American Paintings Executed before 1914. Reprint.
March 3, 1975.

Calendar of the Smithsonian Institution. Published monthly from July 1974,
through June 1975.

National Collection of Fine Arts: A Museum of the Smithsonian Institution.
Floor plan. 4 black-and-white illustrations. Reprint. January 23, 1975.

The National Collection of Fine Arts, Smithsonian Institution. 6 black-and-
white illustrations, 1 map. January 23, 1975.

The Rise of the American Avant-Garde: 1910-1930. 1 black-and-white illustra-
tion. March 6, 1975.
National Museum of History and Technology
Audrey B. Davis. The Better To Hear You With: Announcing the Greibach
Donation. National Museum of History and Technology. March 3, 1975.
National Museum of Natural History

National Anthropological Archives. 2 black-and-white illustrations. July 5,
1974.

The Islamic Archives. 2 black-and-white illustrations. October 28, 1974.

National Zoological Park
A Guide to the National Zoological Park Library. Smithsonian Institution
Libraries Orientation Leaflet #2. October 23, 1974.

Office of Elementary and Secondary Education

Let’s Go to the Smithsonian: Bulletins for Schools. September 1974 through
Spring/Summer 1975. 29 black-and-white illustrations.

Smithsonian Intern 75. February 18, 1975.

Office of Museum Programs
National Museum Act Program—Fiscal Year 1975. July 5, 1974.

Smithsonian Institution Workshop Series—In Museum Administration, Spring
1975. January 24, 1975.

Smithsonian Institution Workshop Series—In Museum Exhibit Methods—
June, 1975. April 29, 1975.

Office of Public Affairs

Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D.C. Guide map. 2 black-and-white il-
lustrations. Reprint. December 13, 1974.

Radiation Biology Laboratory

A Guide to Smithsonian Institution Radiation Biology Laboratory Library.
Smithsonian Institution Libraries Orientation Leaflet #3. June 20, 1975.

PORTFOLIOS
National Museum of Natural History

Prehistoric Life. 15 pages, 13 black-and-white illustrations. August 19, 1974.
Paper: $1.50.

Appendix 5. Publications of the Smithsonian Press / 357
Traditional African Cultures. 12 pages, 27 black-and-white illustrations. No- |
vember 21, 1974. Paper: $1.50. i

Office of Elementary and Secondary Education

Let’s Go to the Smithsonian: Learning Opportunities for Schools, 1974-75. 24
pages, 28 black-and-white illustrations. August 30, 1974.

POSTERS
Anacostia Neighborhood Museum

Blacks in the Westward Movement. January 30, 1974.

Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden
Inaugural Exhibition. August 16, 1974.

National Collection of Fine Arts

Chaim Gross: Sculpture and Drawings. August 29, 1974.
Contemporary Nigerian Art: Craftsmen from Oshogbo. July 15, 1974.
Portfolio Day, December 7, 1974. November 22, 1974.

National Portrait Gallery
“The Dye is Now Cast...” April 4, 1975.

Office of International and Environmental Programs

There Are Opportunities Overseas Through the Smithsonian-Peace Corps
Environmental Program. November 5, 1974.

Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute
Restricted Area: Warning. March 3, 1975.

SHOWCARDS

Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden
Inaugural Exhibition. August 9, 1974.

National Collection of Fine Arts
High School Graphics IV. March 5, 1975.

INVITATIONS

Anacostia Neighborhood Museum

Blacks in the Westward Movement. January 30, 1975.
D.C. Art Association Exhibition 1974-75. November 8, 1974.

Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden
Art and Culture in the Twentieth Century: Four Interactions. April 4, 1975.

National Collection of Fine Arts
Academy: The Academic Tradition in American Art. May 16, 1975.
Chaim Gross: Sculpture and Drawings. August 29, 1974.
High School Graphics IV. March 27, 1975.
Kaleidoscope: A Day for Children. May 5, 1975.
Made in Chicago. October 9, 1974.

358 / Smithsonian Year 1975
Pennsylvania Academy Moderns: 1910-1940. April 29, 1975.
“Tribute to the Arts in the Americas.” February 26, 1975.

National Collection of Fine Arts and National Portrait Gallery
The Annual Convocation of the College Art Association. January 10, 1975

Renwick Gallery of the National Collection of Fine Arts

A Modern Consciousness: D. J. DePree and Florence Knoll. March 27, 1975.
Contemporary Textile Art from Austria. November 21, 1974.

Craft Multiples. June 16, 1975.

Figure and Fantasy. September 24, 1974.

H. H. Richardson and His Office. March 10, 1975.

MISCELLANEOUS

National Collection of Fine Arts
Some Useful Rules for Handling Works of Art. Flyer. July 5, 1974.
Questions and Comments. Postcard. January 26, 1975.

Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute
Barro Colorado Island. Map. October 7, 1974.

SERIES PUBLICATIONS
SMITHSONIAN ANNALS OF FLIGHT

10. Frederick C. Durant III, and George S. James, editors. “First Steps Toward
Space. Proceedings of the First and Second History Symposia of the Inter-
national Academy of Astronautics at Belgrade, Yugoslavia, 26 September
1967, and New York, U.S.A., 16 October 1968.” viii + 308 pages, 232
figures, 2 tables. August 13, 1974.

SMITHSONIAN CONTRIBUTIONS TO ANTHROPOLOGY

17. William Trousdale. “The Long Sword and Scabbard Slide in Asia.” xii
+ 322 pages, 100 figures, 24 plates, 5 tables. May 8, 1975.

18. Douglas H. Ubelaker. “Reconstruction of Demographic Profiles from
Ossuary Skeletal Samples: A Case Study from the Tidewater Potomac.” xii +
80 pages, 27 figures, 45 tables. August 18, 1974.

SMITHSONIAN CONTRIBUTIONS TO ASTROPHYSICS

_ 16. Cecilia H. Payne-Gaposchkin. “Distribution and Ages of Magellanic
Cepheids.” ii + 34 pages, 8 figures, 15 tables. December 30, 1974.

17. Cecilia H. Payne-Gaposchkin. “Period, Color, and Luminosity for Cepheid
Variables.” ii + 10 pages, 8 tables. December 30, 1974.

SMITHSONIAN CONTRIBUTIONS TO BOTANY

14. Edward S. Ayensu, and Albert Bentum. “Commercial Timbers of West
Africa.” iv + 69 pages, 28 plates, 2 tables. August 8, 1974.

_ 15. Edward S. Ayensu. “Leaf Anatomy and Systematics of New World Vel-
loziaceae.” vi + 125 pages, 24 figures and frontispiece, 51 plates. July 25, 1974.

‘16. Mason E. Hale, Jr. “Morden-Smithsonian Expedition to Dominica: The
Lichens (Theotremataceae).” iv + 46 pages, 20 figures. September 4, 1974.

Appendix 5. Publications of the Smithsonian Press / 359
17. Martin Lawrence Grant, F. Raymond Fosberg, and Howard M. Smith.
“Partial Flora of the Society Islands: Ericaceae to Apocynaceae.” viii + 85
pages, 3 tables. November 20, 1974.

18. Dieter C. Wasshausen. “The Genus Aphelandra (Acanthaceae).” vi +
157 pages, 56 figures and frontispiece. March 5, 1975.

19. Robert W. Read. “The Genus Thrinax (Palmae: Coryphoideae).” iv +
98 pages, 57 figures and frontispiece, 5 tables. March 13, 1975.

20. F. Raymond Fosberg, and Marie-Héléne Sachet. “Flora of Micronesia, 1:
Gymnospermae.” iv + 15 pages, 1 figure. March 13, 1975.

22. F. Raymond Fosberg, M. V. C. Falanruw, and Marie-Héléne Sachet.
“Vascular Flora of the Northern Marianas Islands.” iv + 45 pages, 2 figures.
June 23,1975.

SMITHSONIAN CONTRIBUTIONS TO EARTH SCIENCES

13. Nicolaas A. Rupke, and Daniel Jean Stanley. “Distinctive Properties of
Turbiditic and Hemipelagic Mud Layers in the Algéro-Balearic Basin, Western
Mediterranean Sea.” iv + 40 pages, 21 figures, 8 tables. September 10, 1974.

~15. Daniel Jean Stanley, Gilbert Kelling, Juan-Antonio Vera, and Harrison
Shena. “Sands in the Alboran Sea: A Model of Input in a Deep Marine Basin.”
iv + 51 pages, 23 figures, 8 tables. June 16, 1975.

SMITHSONIAN CONTRIBUTIONS TO PALEOBIOLOGY

22. Adam Urbanek, and Kenneth M. Towe. “Ultrastructural Studies on
Graptolites, 2: The Periderm and Its Derivatives in the Graptoloidea.” iv +
48 pages, 3 figures, 24 plates, 1 table. May 16, 1975.

“23. Storrs L. Olson. “Paleornithology of St. Helena Island, South Atlantic
Ocean.” iv + 49 pages, 10 figures, 6 plates, 8 tables. June 20, 1975.

SMITHSONIAN CONTRIBUTIONS TO ZOOLOGY

162. Terry L. Erwin. “Studies of the Subtribe Tachyina (Coleoptera: Carabi-
dae: Bembidiini), Part II: A Revision of the New World-Australian Genus
Pericompsus LeConte.” iv + 96 pages, 161 figures, 1 table. July 25, 1974.

166. Horton H. Hobbs, Jr. “A Checklist of the North and Middle American
Crayfishes (Decapoda: Astacidae and Cambaridae).” iv + 161 pages, 294 fig-
ures. September 27, 1974.

167. Oliver S. Flint. “Studies of Neotropical Caddisflies, XVII: The Genus
Smicridea from North and Central America (Trichoptera: Hydropsychidae).”
iv + 65 pages, 227 figures. July 15, 1974.

172. William L. Fink, and Stanley H. Weitzman. “The so-called Cheirodontin

Fishes of Central America with Descriptions of Two New Species (Pisces:
Characidae).” iv + 46 pages, 26 figures, 15 tables. September 4, 1974.

173. Louis S. Kornicker. “Ostracoda (Myodocopina) of Cape Cod Bay,
Massachusetts.” ii + 20 pages, 11 figures. September 3, 1974.

175. Meredith L. Jones. “On the Caobangiidae, a New Family of the
Polychaeta, with a Redescription of Caobangia billeti Giard.” iv + 55 pages,
25 figures, 11 plates, 3 tables. September 27, 1974.

177. Victor G. Springer, and Martin F. Gomon. ‘Revision of the Blenniid
Fish Genus Omobranchus with Descriptions of Three New Species and Notes
on Other Species of the Tribe Omobranchini.” iv + 135 pages, 52 figures, 17
tables. April 2, 1975.

360 / Smithsonian Year 1975
178. Louis S. Kornicker. “Revision of the Cypridinacea of the Gulf of
Naples (Ostracoda).” iv + 64 pages, 26 figures. December 30, 1974.

179. Louis S. Kornicker, and Francisca Elena Caraion. “West African Myo-
docopid Ostracoda (Cylindroleberididae).” iv + 78 pages, 43 figures. Decem-
ber 30, 1974.

180. W. Donald Duckworth, and Thomas D. Eichlin. “Clearwing Moths of
Australia and New Zealand (Lepidoptera: Sesiidae).” iv + 45 pages, 50 figures,
6 maps. December 4, 1974.

181. Doris H. Blake. “The Costate Species of Colaspis in the United States
(Coleoptera: Chrysomelidae).” iv + 24 pages, 27 figures. November 12, 1974.

182. D. J. G. Griffin. “Spider Crabs (Crustacea: Brachyura: Majidae) from
the International Indian Ocean Expedition, 1963-1964.” iv + 35 pages, 8 fig-
ures, 6 tables. November 12, 1974.

183. Roman Kenk. “Index of the Genera and Species of the Freshwater
Triclads (Turbellaria) of the World.” ii + 90 pages. December 30, 1974.

184. Terry L. Erwin. “The Genus Coptocarpus Chaudoir of the Australian
Region with Notes on Related African Species (Coleoptera: Carabidae:
Oodini).” iv + 25 pages, 33 figures, 1 table. December 26, 1974.

~186. Stanley H. Weitzman, and J. Stanley Cobb. “A Revision of the South
American Fishes of the Genus Nannostomus Gunther (Family Lebiasinidae).”
iv + 36 pages, 34 figures. March 5, 1975.

187. Gerald Gene Montgomery. “Communication in Red Fox Dyads: A Com-
puter Simulation Study.” iv + 30 pages, 16 figures, 9 tables. December 30,
1974.

189. Joseph Rosewater. “An Annotated List of the Marine Mollusks of
Ascension Island, South Atlantic Ocean.” iv + 41 pages, 24 figures, 3 tables.
May 30, 1975.

190. C. Allan Child. “Pycnogonida of Western Australia.” iv + 29 pages, 11
figures. May 30, 1975.

191. Arthur G. Humes. “Cyclopoid Copepods (Lichomolgidae) Associated
with Alcyonaceans in New Caledonia.” iv + 27 pages, 13 figures, 3 tables.
May 30, 1975.

194. Edward W. Baker, Donald M. Tuttle, and Michael J. Abbatiello. “The
False Spider Mites of Northwestern and North Central Mexico (Acarina:
Tenuipalpidae).” iv + 23 pages, 36 figures. April 28, 1975.

196. Taisoo Park. “Calanoid Copepods of the Family Euchaetidae from the
Gulf of Mexico and Western Caribbean Sea.” iv + 26 pages, 20 figures.
May 30, 1975.

198. William D. Field. “Ctenuchid Moths of Ceramidia Butler, Ceramidiodes
Hampson, and the Caca Species Group of Antichloris Hubner.” iv + 45 pages,
105 figures. May 30, 1975.

200. Victor G. Springer, and Martin F. Gomon. “Variation in the Western
Atlantic Clinid Fish Malacoctenus triangulatus with a Revised Key to the
Atlantic Species of Malcoctenus.” ii + 11 pages, 3 figures, 3 tables. June 20,
1975.

SMITHSONIAN STUDIES IN HISTORY AND TECHNOLOGY

~28. Arthur H. Frazier. “Water Current Meters in the Smithsonian Collections
of the National Museum of History and Technology.” vi + 95 pages, 94
figures. December 30, 1974.

Appendix 5. Publications of the Smithsonian Press / 361
29. Philip K. Lundeberg. “Samuel Colt’s Submarine Battery. The Secret and
the Enigma.” vi + 90 pages, 43 figures. December 30, 1974.

CONTRIBUTIONS FROM THE UNITED STATES
NATIONAL HERBARIUM

Volume 38, Part 7. C. V. Morton. “William Roxburgh’s Fern Types.” Pages
283-396. September 20, 1974.

ATOLL RESEARCH BULLETINS

172-173. In one volume, as follows. December 15, 1974.

172. Marie-Héléne Sachet, and Arthur L. Dahl, editors. “Comparative Investi-
gations of Tropical Reef Ecosystems: Background for an Integrated Coral
Reef Program.” iv + 169 pages, 49 figures, 4 tables.

173. Roy T. Tsuda, and Clinton J. Dawes. “Preliminary Checklist of the
Marine Benthic Plants from Glover’s Reef, British Honduras.” ii + 13 pages.

174. A. Binion Amerson, Jr., Roger B. Clapp, and William O. Wirtz II. “The
Natural History of Pearl and Hermes Reef, Northwestern Hawaiian Islands.”
xiv + 306 pages, 80 figures, 115 tables. December 31, 1974.

175-178. In one volume, as follows. January 15, 1975.

175. A. M. Hitson. “Observations on the Birds of Diego Garcia, Chagos
Archipelago, with Notes on Other Vertebrates.” iv + 25 pages.

176. C. W. Benson, H. H. Beamish, C. Jouanin, J. Salvan, and G. E. Watson.
“The Birds of the Iles Glorieuses.” vi + 34 pages, 2 figures, 1 table.

177. M.D. Webb. “Fulgoroidea from Aldabra, Astove, and Cosmoledo Atolls,
Collected by the Royal Society Expedition 1967-68 (Hemiptera-Homoptera).”
iv + 10 pages, 1 table.

178. John B. Lewis. “A Preliminary Description of the Coral Reefs of the
Tobago Cays, Grenadines, West Indies.” iv + 14 pages, 4 tables, 1 map.
179. Gerald J. Bakus. “Marine Zonation and Ecology of Cocos Island, off
Central America.” iv + 12 pages, 7 plates, 1 table.

180. Harold Heatwole. “Biogeography of Reptiles on Some of the Islands and
Cays of Eastern Papua—New Guinea.” iv + 39 pages, 3 figures, 3 plates, 2
tables, 4 maps.

181. D. R. Stoddart. “Sand Cays of Tongatapu.” iv + 16 pages, 6 plates, 5
maps.

182. F. I. Norman. “The Murine Rodents Rattus Rattus, Exulans, and Nor-
vegicus as Avian Predators.” iv + 13 pages.

183. Harald A. Rehder, and John E. Randall. “Ducie Atoll: Its History,
Physiography and Biota.” iv + 55 pages, 29 figures.

184. George H. Balazs. “Marine Turtles in the Phoenix Islands.” ii + 7
pages, 1 figure.

185. “Island News and Comment.” ii + 40 pages, 4 figures, 1 table.

186. Roger B. Clapp, and William O. Wirtz II. “The Natural History of

Lisianski Island, Northwestern Hawaiian Islands.” x + 196 pages, 52 figures,
47 tables. February 15, 1975.

362 / Smithsonian Year 1975

APPENDIX 6. Bibliography of Research Supported Through the
Facilities of the Smithsonian Tropical Research
Institute Marine Laboratories During Their First
Ten Years, 1965-1975

The summer of 1975 marks the tenth anniversary of the establishment of
a Marine Program at stri. During the summer of 1965 small laboratories
were opened to take advantage of the unique access to two oceans af-
forded by the Isthmus of Panama. The great variety of marine life and
habitats found in the tropical regions of the Caribbean and Eastern Pacific
has attracted many students, fellows, and visiting scientists in addition to
our own staff of marine biologists. These investigators have published
over 180 scientific papers on work performed at stri facilities. These
studies are listed below and include such diverse areas as: the genetics
of fishes, physiology of tuna and sea snakes, the effects of oil on corals,
the ecology and development of coral reefs, the behavior of a variety of
marine organisms including fishes, crabs, sea snakes, starfishes and
squids. Such research has contributed toward establishing a worldwide
reputation for sTRI.

1965

Glynn, Peter W. “Active Movements and Other Aspects of the Biology of
Astochopus and Leptosynapta (Holothuroidea).” Biological Bulletin, volume
129, number 1, pages 106-127.

. “Community Composition, Structure, and Interrelationships in the
Marine Intertidal Endocladia muricata—Balanus glandula Association in
Monterrey Bay, California.” Beaufortia, volume 12, number 148, 198 pages.

Rubinoff, Ira. “Distributional and Ecological Relationships of Panamanian
Shore Fishes.” Year Book of American Philosophical Society, pages 346-349.

. “Mixing Oceans and Species.” Natural History, volume 74, number 7,

pages 69-72.

1966

Mead, Giles W., and Ira Rubinoff. “Avocettinops yanoi, A New Nemichthyid
Eel from the Southern Indian Ocean.” Breviora, number 241, 6 pages.

Rubinoff, Ira. “Gymnothorax galetae, A New Moray Eel from the Atlantic
Coast of Panama.” Breviora, number 240, 4 pages.

1967

Dawson, C. E. “Notes on the Species of the Goby Genus Evorthodus.” Copeia,
number 4, pages 855-857.

Topp, Robert. “An Adjustable Macroplankton Sled.” Progressive Fish Cultural-
ist, volume 29, number 3, page 184.

. “An Internal Capsule Fish Tag.” California Fish and Game, volume 53,

number 4, pages 288-289.

Appendix 6. Bibliography of STRI Research, 1965-1975 / 363
. “A Re-examination of the Osteology of Cheimarrichthys fosteri Haas
1874.” Transactions of the Royal Society of New Zealand, volume 9, num-
ber 16, pages 189-191.

1968

Chesher, Richard H. “Lytechinous williamsi, A New Sea Urchin from Panama.”
Breviora, number 305, 13 pages.

. “Transport of Marine Plankton through the Panama Canal.” Lim-
nology and Oceanography, volume 13, number 2, pages 387-388.

Dawson, C. E. “Meristic and Morphometric Data on the Flatfish Citharichthys
gilberti from Panama.” Gulf Research Reports, volume 2, number 3, pages
325-332.

. “Eastern Pacific Wormfishes, Microdesmus dipus Gunther and Micro-
desmus dorsipunctatus Sp. Nov.” Copeia, number 3, pages 512-531.

Delmonte, Peter J., Ira Rubinoff, and Roberta W. Rubinoff. “Laboratory Rear-
ing through Metamorphosis of Some Panamanian Gobies.” Copeia, number
2, pages 411-412.

Glynn, Peter W. “A New Genus and Two New Species of Sphaeromatid Iso-
pods from the High Intertidal Zone at Naos Island, Panama.” Proceedings
of the Biological Society of Washington, volume 81, pages 587-604.

. “Ecological Studies on the Associations of Chitons in Puerto Rico,

with Special Reference to Sphaeromid Isopods.” Bulletin of Marine Science,

volume 18, number 3, pages 572-626.

. “Mass Mortalities of Echinoids and Other Reef Flat Organisms Coin-
cident with Midday, Low Water Exposures in Puerto Rico.” Marine Biology,
volume 1, number 3, pages 226-243.

Menzies, Robert J. ‘Transport of Marine Life Between Oceans through the
Panama Canal.” Nature, volume 220, number 5169, pages 802-803.

Menzies, Robert J., and Peter W. Glynn. “The Common Marine Isopod
Crustacea of Puerto Rico; A Handbook of Marine Biologists.” Studies on
the Fauna of Curacao and other Caribbean Islands, volume 27, 133 pages.

Rubinoff, Ira. “Central American Sea-level Canal: Possible Biological Effects.”
Science, volume 161, pages 857-861.

Rubinoff, Roberta, and Ira Rubinoff. “Interoceanic Colonization of a Marine
Goby, through the Panama Canal.” Nature, volume 217, number 5127, pages
467-478.

Topp, Robert. “An Estimate of Fecundity of the Winter Flounder, Pseudo-
pleuronectes americanus.” Journal of the Fisheries Research Board of
Canada, volume 25, number 6, pages 1299-1302.

1969

Briggs, John C. “The Clingfishes (Gobiesocidae) of Panama.” Copeia, number
4, pages 774-778.

Dawson, C. E. “A New Eastern Pacifiic Sand Stargazer, Dactyloscopus byersi
(Pisces: Dactyloscopidae).” Copeia, number 1, pages 44-51.

. “A new Seven-spined Goby, Gobiosoma (Austrogobius) polyporosum,
from the Pacific Coast of Panama.” Copeia, number 3, pages 510-514.

Lang, Judith C. “Novel Characters in Coral Taxonomy (abstract).” Association
of Island Marine Laboratories, 8th Meeting, Jamaica.

Rubinoff, Roberta W., and Ira Rubinoff. “Fisch-Austausch zwischen Atlantik
und Pazifik durch den Panamakanal.” Umschau in Wissenschaft und Tech-
nik, number 4, page 121.

. “Observations on the Migration of a Marine Goby through the
Panama Canal.” Copeia, number 2, pages 395-397.

Topp, Robert W. “Interoceanic Sea-level Canal: Effects on the Fish Faunas.”
Science, volume 165, number 3900, pages 1324-1327.

364 / Smithsonian Year 1975

1970

Dawson, C. E. “The Caribbean Atlantic Blenny Lupinoblennius Dispar (Tribe:
Blenniini), with Observations on a Pacific Population.” Proceedings of the
Biological Society of Washington, volume 83, number 26, pages 273-286.

Glynn, Peter W. “Biology of the West Indian Chitons Acanthopleura granu-
lata Gmelin and Chiton tuberculatus Linné: Density, Feeding, Reproduction
and Growth.” Association of Islands Marine Laboratory, 7th Meeting, 2
pages.

. “Growth of Algal Epiphytes on a Tropical Marine Isopod.” Journal

of Experimental Marine Biology, volume 5, number 1, pages 88-93.

. “On the Ecology of the Caribbean Chitons Acanthopleura granulata

Gmelin and Chiton tuberculatus Linné: Density, Mortality, Feeding, Repro-

duction, and Growth.” Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology, number 66,

21 pages.

. “A Systematic Study of the Sphaeromatidae (Crustacea: Isopoda) of
Isla Margarita, Venezuela, with Descriptions of Three New Species.” Me-
moria de la Sociedad de Ciencias Naturales de La Salle, volume 30, number
85, pages 5—48.

Graham, Jeffrey B. “Aspects of Temperature Sensitivity in Some Tropical In-
shore Marine Fishes.” Ph.D. thesis, University of California, 163 pages.
“Preliminary Studies on the Biology of the Amphibious Clinid
Mnierpes macrocephalus.” Marine Biology, volume 5, number 2, pages

136-140.

. “Temperature Sensitivity of Two Species of Intertidal Fishes.” Copeia,
number 1, pages 49-56.

Graham, Jeffrey B., and Richard H. Rosenblatt. “Aerial Vision: Unique
Adaptation in an Intertidal Fish.” Science, volume 168, pages 586-588.
McCosker, John E. ‘“Faunal Investigations of Pacific and Caribbean Reef
Fishes.” Research Reports, Alpha Helix Research Program, (1969-1970),

University of California, San Diego, page 38.

. “A Review of the Eel Genera Leptenchelys and Muraenichthys, with
the Description of a New Genus, Schismorbynchus, and a New Species,
Muraenichihys chilensis.” Pacific Science, volume 24, number 4, pages
506-516.

Robinson, Michael H., L. G. Abele, and B. Robinson. ‘Attack Autotomy: A
Defense Against Predators.” Science, volume 169, pages 300-301.

Rosenblatt, R. H., and J. E. McCosker. “A Key to the Genera of the Ophichthid
Eels, with Descriptions of Two New Genera and Three New Species from
Eastern Pacific.” Pacific Science, volume 24, number 4, pages 495-505.

Rubinoff, Ira. “The Sea-level Canal Controversy.” Biological Conservation,
volume 3, number 1, pages 33-36.

Rubinoff, Ira, and C. Kropach. “Differential Reactions of Atlantic and Pacific
Predators to Sea Snakes.” Nature, volume 228, number 5278, pages 1288-—
1290.

Rutzler, Klaus. “Oil Pollution; Damage Observed in Tropical Communties
Along the Atlantic Seaboard of Panama.” BioScience, volume 20, number 4,
pages 222-224.

Topp, Robert. “Behavior and Color Change of the Rudderfish, Kyphosus ele-
gans in the Gulf of Panama.” Copeia, number 4, pages 763-765.

. “Redescription of Pomacentrus otophorus Poey 1860, a valid species

from the Caribbean (Pisces: Pomacentridae).” Breviora, number 342, 16

pages.

1971

Abele, Lawrence G. “Scanning Electron Photomicrographs of Brachyuran
Gonopods.” Crustaceana, volume 21, part 2, pages 218-220.

Appendix 6. Bibliography of STRI Research, 1965-1975 / 365
Birkeland, C. “Biological Observations on Cobb Seamount.” Northwest Science,
volume 45, number 3, pages 193-199.

. “Grazing Pressure in Benthic Communities on the Caribbean and
Pacific Coasts of Panama.” Bulletin of the Ecological Society of America,
volume 52, number 4, page 50.

Birkeland, C., and F. S. Chia. “Recruitment Risk, Growth, Age, and Predation
in Two Populations of the Sand Dollars Dendraster excentricus (Esch-
scholtz). Journal of Experimental Marine Biology and Ecology, volume 6,
pages 265-278.

Birkeland, C., and B. D. Gregory. Feeding Behavior of a Tropical Predator
Cyphoma gibbosum Linnaeus. In Tektite 2, Scientists in the Sea, edited by
J. W. Miller, J. G. VanDerwalker, and R. A Waller. U.S. Department of the
Interior, Washington.

Birkeland, C., Fu-Shiang Chia, and Richard R. Strathmann. “Development,
Substratum Selection, Delay of Metamorphosis and Growth in the Seastar
Mediaster aequalis Stimpson.” Biological Bulletin, volume 141, pages 99-108.

Dunson, William A. “The Sea Snakes Are Coming.” Natural History, volume
80, number 9, pages 52-61.

Gore, Robert H. “Megalobrachium poeyi (Crustacea, Decapoda, Porcellanidae) :
Comparison between Larval Development in Atlantic and Pacific Specimens
Reared in the Laboratory.” Pacific Science, volume 25, number 3, pages
404—425.

. “Petrolisthes tridentatus: The Development of Larvae from a Pacific
Specimen in Laboratory Culture with a discussion of Larval Characters
in the Genus (Crustacea: Decapoda; Porcellanidae).” Biological Bulletin,
volume 141, pages 485-501.

Graham, Jeffrey B. “Aerial Vision in Amphibious Fishes.” Fauna, number 3,
pages 14-23.

. “Temperature Tolerances of Some Closely Related Tropical Atlantic
and Pacific Fish Species.” Science, volume 172, pages 861-863.

Graham, Jeffrey B., Ira Rubinoff, and M. K. Hecht. “Temperature Physiology
of the Sea Snake Pelamis platurus: An Index of Its Colonization Potential in
the Atlantic Ocean.” Proceedings of the Natural Academy of Sciences,
volume 68, number 6, pages 1360-1363.

Hubbs, Carl L. “Need for Thorough Inventory of Tropical American Marine
Biotas before Completion of an Interoceanic Sea-level Canal.” Symposium
on Investigations and Resources of the Caribbean Sea and Adjacent Regions,
UNESCO/FAO, pages 467-470.

Jones, Meredith L., and Raymond B. Manning. “A Two-Ocean Bouillabaisse
Can Result If and When Sea-level Canal Is Dug.” Smithsonian, volume 2,
number 2, pages 11-21.

Kropach, Chaim. “Another Color Variety of the Sea Snake Pelamis platurus
from Panama Bay.” Herpetologica, volume 27, number 3, pages 326-327.

. “Sea Snake (Pelamis platurus) Aggregations on Slicks in Panama.”
Herpetologica, volume 27, number 2, pages 131-135.

Lang, Judith. “Interspecific Aggression by Scleractinian Corals. 1. The Re-
discovery of Scolymia cubensis (Milne Edwards & Haime).” Bulletin of
Marine Science, volume 21, number 4, pages 952-959.

McCosker, John E. “A New Species of Parapercis (Pisces: Mugiloididae) from
the Juan Fernandez Islands.” Copeia, number 4, pages 682-686.

McCosker, John E., and Ross F. Nigrelli. “New Records of Lymphocystis Dis-
ease in Four Eastern Pacific Fish Species.” Journal of the Fisheries Research
Board of Canada, volume 28, number 11, pages 1809-1810.

Meyer, David L. “The Collagenuous Nature of Problematical Ligaments in
Crinoids (Echinodermata).” Marine Biology, volume 9, number 3, pages
235-241.

Reimer, Amada Alvarez. “Specificity of Feeding Chemoreceptors in Palythoa

366 / Smithsonian Year 1975
psammophilia (Zoanthidea, Coelenterata). Comparative and General Phar-

macology, volume 2, number 8, pages 383-396.

. “Uptake and Utilization of Carbon C14 Glycine by Zoanthus and Its
Coelenteric Bacteria.” In Experimental Coelenteric Biology, edited by H. M.
Lenhoff, L. Muscatine and L. Daves. University of Hawaii Press, Hono-
lulu, pages 209-217.

Rubinoff, Roberta W., and Ira Rubinoff. “Geographic and Reproductive Isola-
tion in Atlantic and Pacific Populations of Panamanian Bathygobius.”
Evolution, volume 25, number 1, pages 88-97.

Todd, Eric. “Respiratory Control in the Longjaw Mudsucker Gillichthys
mirabilis.” Comparative Biochemistry and Physiology, volume 39, number
1A, pages 147-163.

1972

Abele, Lawrence G. “Comparative Habitat Diversity and Faunal Relationships
between the Pacific and Carbbean Decapod Crustacea of Panama.” Ph.D.
thesis, University of Miami.

. “Comparative Habitat Diversity and Faunal Relationships between the

Pacific and Caribbean Panamanian Decapod Crustacea: A Preliminary Re-

port, with Some Remarks on the Crustacean Fauna of Panama.” Bulletin

of the Biological Society of Washington, number 2, pages 125-138.

. “Introduction of Two Freshwater Decapod Crustaceans (Hymenosoma-

tidae and Atyadae into Central and North America.” Crustaceana, volume

23, pages 209-218.

. “A Note on the Brazilian Bromeliad Crabs (Crustacea, Grapsidae).”

Arquivos de Ciencias do Mar, volume 12, number 2, pages 123-126.

. “A Reevaluation of the Neopanope texana-sayi Complex with Notes

on N. packardii (Crustacea: Decapoda: Xanthidae) in Northwestern At-

lantic.” Chesapeake Science, volume 13, pages 263-271.

. “A review of the Ambidexter (Crustacea: Decapoda: Processidae) in

Panama.” Bulletin of Marine Science, volume 22, number 2, pages 365-380.

. “The Status of Sesarma angustipes Dana, 1852, S. trapezium Dana,
1852, and S. miersii Rathbun, 1897, (Crustacea: Decapoda: Grapsidae) in
Western Atlantic.” Caribbean Journal of Science, volume 12, numbers 3 and
4, pages 165-170.

Abele, Lawrence G., and Ian E. Efford. “A New Species of Lepidopa L. dexterae
(Anomura, Albuneidea), from the Caribbean Coast of Panama.” Proceedings
of the Biological Society of Washington, volume 84, pages 501-506.

Dawson, C. E. “A Redescription of Lophogobius cristulatus Ginsburg (Pisces:
Gobiidae) with Notes on L. cyprinoides (Pallas).” Proceedings of the Bio-
logical Society of Washington, volume 84, number 44, pages 371-384.

Dexter, Deborah M. “Comparison of the Community Structure in a Pacific and
Atlantic Panamanian Sandy Beach.” Bulletin of Marine Science, volume 22,
number 2, pages 449-462.

Earle, Sylvia A. “A Review of the Marine Plants of Panama.” Bulletin of the
Biological Society of Washington, number 2, pages 69-87.

Earle, Sylvia A., and J. R. Young, “Siphonoclathrus, A New Genus of
Chlorophyta (Siphonales: Codiaceae) from Panama. Occasional Papers of
the Farlow Herbarium of Cryptogamic Botany, Harvard University, Cam-
bridge, Massachusetts, number 3, figures 1-8, pages 1-4.

Glynn, Peter W. “Isopoda of the Suez Canal. Contributions to the Knowledge
of Suez Canal Migration.” Israel Journal of Zoology, volume 21, pages
275-300.

. “Observations on the Ecology of the Caribbean and Pacific Coasts of

Panama.” Bulletin of the Biological Society of Washington, volume 2, pages

13-30.

Appendix 6. Bibliography of STRI Research, 1965-1975 / 367
. “Rediscovery of Paracerceis edithae Boone (Isopoda, Sphaeromatidae)
with Supplementary Notes on Morphology and Habitat.” Crustaceana, sup-
plement 3, pages 139-147.

Glynn, Peter W., Robert H. Stewart, and John E. McCosker. “Pacific Coral
Reefs of Panama: Structure, Distribution and Predators.” Geologischen
Rundschau, volume 61, number 2, pages 483-519.

Gore, Robert H. “Petrolisthes platymerus: The Development of Larvae in
Laboratory Culture (Crustacea: Decapoda; Porcellanidae).” Bulletin of
Marine Science, volume 22, number 2, pages 336-354.

. “Petrolisthes armatus (Gibbes, 1850): The Development under Labora-
tory Conditions of Larvae from a Pacific Specimen (Decapoda, Porcellani-
dae).” Crustaceana, volume 22, part I, pages 67-83.

Graham, Jeffrey B. “Low-temperature Acclimation and the Seasonal Tempera-
ture Sensitivity of Some Tropical Marine Fishes.” Physiological Zoology,
volume 45, number 1, pages 1-13.

Kropach, Chaim. “A Field Study of the Sea Snake Pelamis platurus (Linnaeus)
in the Gulf of Panama.” Ph.D. thesis, City University of New York, Queens
College.

. “Pelamis platurus as a Potential Colonizer of the Caribbean Sea.” Bul-
letin of the Biological Society of Washington, number 2, pages 267-269.

McCosker, John E., and R. H. Rosenblatt. “Eastern Pacific Snake-Eels of
the Genus Callechelys (Apodes: Ophichthidae).” San Diego Society of
Natural History, Transactions, volume 17, number 2, pages 15-24.

Menzies, R. J. “Experimental Interbreeding between Geographically Separated
Populations of the Marine Wood-Boring Isopod Limnoria tripunctata with
Preliminary Indications of Hybrid Vigor.” Marine Biology, volume 17, num-
ber 2, pages 149-157.

Meyer, David L. “Ctenantedon, A New Antedonid Crinoid Convergent with
Comasterids.” Bulletin of Marine Science, volume 22, number 1, pages 53-66.

Newman, William A. “The National Academy of Science Committee on the
Ecology of the Interoceanic Canal.” Bulletin of the Biological Society of
Washington, volume 2, pages 247-259.

Porter, James W. “Ecology and Species Diversity of Coral Reefs on Opposite
Sides of the Isthmus of Panama.” Bulletin of the Biological Society of Wash-
ington, number 2, pages 89-116.

. “Patterns of Species Diversity in Caribbean Reef Corals.” Ecology,

volume 53, pages 745-748.

. “Predation by Acanthaster and Its Effect on Coral Species Diversity.”
American Naturalist, volume 106, number 950, pages 487-492.

Rosenblatt, Richard H., and Ira Rubinoff. “Pythonichthys asodes, A New
Heterenchelyid Eel from the Gulf of Panama.” Bulletin of Marine Science,
volume 22, number 2, pages 355-364.

Rosenblatt, Richard H., John E. McCosker, and Ira Rubinoff. “Indo-West
Pacific Fishes from the Gulf of Chiriqui, Panama.” Contributions in Science,
number 234, 18 pages.

L973

Abele, Lawrence G. “A new species of Sesarma, S. (Holometopus) rubi-
nofforum from the Pacific Coast of Panama (Crustacea, Decapoda, Grapsi-
dae).” Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington, volume 86,
number 27, pages 333-338.

. “Taxonomy, Distribution and Ecology of the Genus Sesarma (Crusta-
cea, Decapoda, Grapsidae) in Eastern North America, with Special Ref-
erence to Florida.” American Midland Naturalist, volume 90, number 2,
pages 375-386.

Abele, Lawrence G., and Robert H. Gore. “Selection of a Lectotype for Mega-
lobrachium granuliderum Stimpson, 1858 (M. poeyi (Guerin, 1855)) De-
capoda, Porcellanidae.” Crustaceana, volume 25, number 1, pages 105-106.

368 / Smithsonian Year 1975
Abele, Lawrence G., Michael H. Robinson, and Barbara Robinson. “Observa-
tions on Sound Production by Two Species of Crabs from Panama (Deca-
poda, Gecarcinidae and Pseudothelphusidae).” Crustaceana, volume 25, num-
ber 2, pages 147-152.

Bohlke, James E., and John E. McCosker. “Two Additional West Atlantic
Gobies (Genus Gobiosoma) That Remove Ectoparasites from Other Fishes.”
Copeia, number 3, pages 609-610.

Buckman, Nancy S., and John C. Ogden. “Territorial Behavior of the Striped
Parrotfish Scarus coicensis Bloch (Scaridae).” Ecology, volume 54, number 6,
pages 1377-1382.

Colin, Patrick. “Comparative Biology of the Gobies of the Genus Gobiosoma,
Subgenus Elacatinus (Pisces: Gobiidae) in the Tropical Western North
Atlantic Ocean.” Ph.D. thesis, University of Miami School of Marine and
Atmospheric Sciences.

Dawson, C. E. “Occurrence of an Exotic Eleotrid Fish in Panama with Dis-
cussion of Probable Origin and Mode of Introduction.” Copeia, number 1,
pages 141-144.

Glynn, Peter W. “Acanthaster: Effect on Coral Reef Growth in Panama.”
Science, volume 180, pages 504-506.

. “Aspects of the Ecology of Coral Reefs in the Western Atlantic

Region.” In Biology and Geology of Coral Reefs, edited by D. A. Jones and

R. Endean, pages 271-234. New York, Academic Press.

. “Biology of the West Indian Chitons Acanthopleura granulata Gmelin

and Chiton tuberculatus Linné: Density, Feeding, Reproduction, and

Growth.” Association of Island Marine Laboratories of the Caribbean, 8th

Meeting, page 17.

. “Ecology of a Caribbean Coral Reef. The Porites Reef-flat Biotope:
Part I. Meteorology and Hydrography.” Marine Biology, volume 20, pages
297-318.

Glynn, Peter W. “Ecology of a Caribbean Coral Reef. The Porites Reef-flat
Biotope: Part II. Plankton Community with Evidence for Depletion.” Ma-
rine Biology, volume 22, number 1, pages 1-21.

Glynn, Peter W., and Robert H. Stewart. “Distribution of Coral Reefs in the
Pearl Islands (Gulf of Panama) in Relation to Thermal Conditions.” Lim-
nology and Oceanography, volume 18, number 3, pages 367-379.

Gore, Robert H., and Lawrence G. Abele. “Three New Species of Porcellanid
Crabs (Crustacea, Decapoda, Porcellanidae) from the Bay of Panama and
Adjacent Caribbean Waters.” Bulletin of Marine Science, volume 23,
number 3, pages 559-573.

Graham, Jeffrey B. “Aquatic Respiration and the Physiological Responses to
Submersion of the Sea Snake Pelamis platurus.” (Abstract). American
Zoologist, volume 13, number 4, page 1296.

. “Heat Exchange in the Black Skipjack, and the Blood-Gas Relation-

ship of Warm-Bodied Fishes.” Proceedings of the National Academy of

Science, volume 70, number 7, pages 1964-1967.

. “Terrestrial Life of the Amphibious Fish Mnierpes macrocephalus.”
Marine Biology, volume 23, pages 83-91.

Graham, Jeffrey B., and Lawrence Abele. “Panama Bay Fish Kill and Crab
Swarming.” Smithsonian Institution, Event Information Report 354-73,
pages 1618-1619.

Jaén, Antonio L., y Alfred M. Muschett I. “Sobre la Oceanografia Fisica y
Quimica del Golfo de Panama desde Noviembre 1972 hasta Febrero 1973.”
Tésis (Lic.), Universidad de Panama, 70 paginas.

Jones, M. L., and C. E. Dawson. “Salinity-Temperature Profiles in the Panama
Canal Locks.” Marine Biology, volume 21, pages 86-90.

Kropach, Chaim, and John D. Soule. “An Unusual Association between an

Appendix 6. Bibliography of STRI Research, 1965-1975 / 369
Ectoproct and a Sea Snake.” Herpetologica, volume 29, number 1, pages
17-19.

Lang, Judith. “Interspecific Aggression by Scleractinian Corals. 2. Why the
Race Is Not Only to the Swift.” Bulletin of Marine Science, volume 23,
_number 2, pages 260-279.

Lehman, John T., and James W. Porter. “Chemical Activation of Feeding
in the Caribbean Reef-Building Coral Montastrea cavernosa.” Biological
Bulletin, volume 145, pages 140-149.

Meyer, David L. “Distribution and Living Habits of Comatulid Crinoids near
Discovery Bay, Jamaica.” Bulletin of Marine Science, volume 23, pages
244-259.

. “Feeding Behavior and Ecology of Shallow-Water Unstalked Crinoids
(Echinodermata) in the Caribbean Sea.” Marine Biology, volume 22, number
2, pages 105-129.

Ogden, John C., and Nancy S. Buckman. “Movements, Foraging Groups, and
Diurnal Migrations of the Striped Parrotfish Scarus croicensis Bloch
(Scaridae).” Ecology, volume 54, number 3, pages 589-596.

Porter, James W. “Biological, Physical, and Historical Forces Structuring Coral
Reef Communities on Opposite Sides of the Isthmus of Panama.” Ph.D.
thesis, Yale University, 146 pages.

Porter, James W., and Karen Porter. “The Effects of Panama’s Cuna Indians
on Coral Reefs.” Discovery, volume 8, number 2, pages 65-70.

Reimer, Amada Alvarez. “Feeding Behavior in the Sea Anemone Calliactis
polypus (Forskal, 1775).” Comparative Biochemistry and Physiology, volume
44, series A, pages 1289-1301.

Rubinoff, Ira. “A Sea-Level Canal in Panama.” Caribbean Project Papers,
Pacem in Maribus IV, chapter 6, pages 99-112.

. “A Sea Level Canal in Panama.” XVII Congres International de
Zoologie. Theme no. 3. Les consequences biologiques des canaux intero-
ceans, pages 1-13.

Smith, Wayne L. “Investigations of the Biology of the Symbiotic Mysid,
Heteromysis actinae Clark Associated with the Tropical Sea Anemone,
Bartholomea annulata Leseur.” MS thesis, State University of New York at
Stony Brook.

. “Record of a Fish Associated with a Caribbean Sea Anemone.”

Copeia, number 3, pages 597-598.

. “Notes and News, Submersible Device for Collecting Small Crusta-
ceans.” Crustaceana, volume 25, part I, pages 104-105.

Todd, Eric S. “Positive Buoyancy and Air-Breathing: A New Piscine Gas
Bladder Function.” Copeia, number 3, pages 461-464.

. “A Preliminary Report of the Respiratory Pump in the Dactyloscopi-

dae.” Copeia, number 1, pages 115-119.

1974

Abele, Lawrence G. “Species Diversity of Decapod Crustaceans in Marine
Habitats.” Ecology, volume 55, number 1, pages 156-161.

Barnard, L. A., I. G. Macintyre, and J. W. Pierce. “Possible Environmental
Index in Tropical Reef Corals.” Nature, volume 252, number 5480, pages
219-220.

Birkeland, Charles. “The Effect of Wave Action on the Population Dynamics
of Gorgonia ventalina Linnaeus.” Studies in Tropical Oceanography, num-
ber 12, pages 115-126.

. Interaction Between a Sea Pen and Seven of Its Predators.” Ecological
Monograph, volume 44, pages 211-232.

Bortone, Stephen A. “Diplectrum rostrum, A Hermaphroditic New Species
(Pisces: Serranidae) from the Eastern Pacific Coast.” Copeia, number 1,
pages 61-65.

370 / Smithsonian Year 1975
Brattegard, Torleiv. ‘““Mysidacea from Shallow Water on the Caribbean Coast
of Panama.” Sarsia, volume 57, pages 87-108.

Dawson, C. E. “A Review of the Microdesmidae (Pisces: Gobioidea) I. Cerdale
and Clarkichtys with Description of Three New Species.” Copeia, number 2,
pages 409-448.

Glynn, Peter W. “Exosphaeroma crenulatum (Richardson), A Junior Synonym
of Dynamenella perforata (Moore) (Crustacea: Isopoda).” Postilla, number
164, pages 1-8.

. “The Impact of Acanthaster on Corals and Coral Reefs in the Eastern

Pacific.” Environmental Conservation, volume 1, pages 295-304.

. “Rolling Stones among the Scleractinia: Mobile Corallith Communi-
ties in the Gulf of Panama.” Proceedings from the Second International
Symposium on Coral Reefs (Australia), volume 2, pages 183-198. Brisbane,
Great Barrier Reef Committee.

Glynn, Peter W., and C. S. Glynn. “On the Systematics of Ancinus (Isopoda,
Sphaeromatidae) with the Description of a New Species from the Tropical
Eastern Pacific.” Pacific Science, volume 28, number 4, pages 401-422.

Graham, Jeffrey B. “Aquatic Respiration in the Sea Snake Pelamis platurus.”
Respiration Physiology, volume 21, pages 1-7.

. “Body Temperatures of the Sea Snake Pelamis platurus.

number 2, pages 531-533.

. “Heat Exchange in the Black Skipjack and the Yellow Fin Tuna and
the Blood-Gas Relationships of Warm-Bodied Fishes.” In Proceedings of
the XXIV Tuna Conference, National Marine Fisheries Service, La Jolla,
California, pages 15-16.

Lang, Judith C. “Biological Zonation at the Base of a Reef.” American Sci-
entist, volume 62, pages 272-281.

Macintyre, Ian G., and Stephen V. Smith. “X-Radiographic Studies of Skele-
tal Development in Coral Colonies.” Proceedings of the Second Interna-
tional Coral Reef Symposium, Brisbane, pages 277-287.

Macintyre, Ian G., and Peter W. Glynn. “Internal Structure and Develop-
mental Stages of a Modern Caribbean Fringe Reef, Galeta Point, Panama.”
7th Caribbean Geological Conference, Guadeloupe, 14 pages.

Macurda, Donald B., and David L. Meyer. “Feeding Posture of Modern
Stalked Crinoids.”” Nature, volume 247, pages 394-396.

McCosker, John E. “A Revision of the Ophichthid Eel Genus Letharchus.”
Copeia, volume 3, pages 619-629.

Millar, R. H. “A Note on the Breeding Season of the Three Ascidians on
Coral Reefs at Galeta in the Caribbean Sea.” Marine Biology, volume 28,
pages 127-129.

Muschett Ibarra, Daniel M. “Sobre la Composicién Quimica y el Aporte Nu-
tritivo de los Rios y Lluvias Adyacentes al Golfo de Panama.” Tésis (Lic.),
Universidad de Panama, 55 paginas.

Porter, James W. “Community Structure of Coral Reefs on Opposite Sides
of the Isthmus of Panama.” Science, volume 186, pages 543-545.

“Zooplankton Feeding by the Caribbean Reef Building Coral
Montastrea cavernosa.” In Proceedings of the Second International Sym-
posium on Coral Reefs, volume 1, pages 111-124.

Roberts, John L., and Jeffrey B. Graham. “Swimming and Body Temperature
of Mackerel.” (Abstract.) American Zoologist, volume 14, page 125.

Rubinoff, Roberta W., editor. “Environmental Monitoring Baseline Data;
Tropical Studies.” Washington, Smithsonian Institution, 465 pages. Compiled
under the Smithsonian Institution Environmental Science Program.

Spight, T. M., Charles Birkeland, and Al Lyons. “Life Histories of Large and
Small Murexes (Prosbranchia: Muricidae).” Marine Biology, volume 24,
number 3, pages 229-242.

wt

Copeia,

Appendix 6. Bibliography of STRI Research, 1965-1975 / 371
Zucker, Naida. “Shelter Building as a Means of Reducing Territory Size in the
Fiddler Crab Uca terpsichores (Crustacea: Ocypodidae). The American Mid-
land Naturalist, volume 91, number 1, pages 224-236.

UES)

Arroyo C., Dulio A. ‘“Produccién Primaria en el Golfo de Panama Durante el
Afloramiento de 1973-1974.” Tésis (Lic.), Universidad de Panama.

Abele, Lawrence G. “The Macruran Decapod Crustacea of Malpelo Island.”
In “Biological Investigation of Malpelo Island, Colombia,” edited by J. B.
Graham. Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology, number 176, 98 pages.

Bertsch, Hans. “Additional Data for Two Dorid Nudribranchs from the South-
ern Caribbean Seas.” The Veliger, volume 17, pages 416-417.

Birkeland, Charles, David L. Meyer, James P. Stames, and Caryl L. Buford.
“Subtidal Communities of Malpelo Island.” In “Biological Investigation of
Malpelo Island,” edited by J. B. Graham. Smithsonian Contributions to
Zoology, number 176, 98 pages.

Colin, Patrick L. “The Neon Gobies, the Comparative Biology of the Gobies
of the Genus Gobiosoma, Subgenus Elacatinus (Pisces: Gobiidae) in the
Tropical Western North Atlantic Ocean.” T.F.H. Publications, Neptune
City, N.J., 320 pages.

Choat, J. H., and D. R. Robertson. “Protogynous Hermaphroditism in Fishes
of the Family Scaridae.” In Intersexuality in the Animal Kingdom, edited by
R. Reinboth, pages 263-283. Springer-Verlag, Berlin Heidelberg, New York.

Downey, Maureen E. “Asteroidea from Malpelo Island with Description of a
New Species of the Genus Tamaria.” In “Biological Investigation of Malpelo
Island,” edited by J. B. Graham. Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology,
number 176, 98 pages.

Findley, Lloyd Talbott. “A New Species of Goby from Malpelo Island
(Teleostei: Gobiidea: Chriolepis).” In “Biological Investigation of Malpelo
Island,” edited by J. B. Graham. Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology,
number 176, 98 pages.

Glynn, Peter W., D. M. Dexter, and T. E. Bowman. “Excirolana braziliensis, A
Pan-American Sand Beach Isopod. Taxonomic Status, Zonation, and Dis-
tribution.” Journal of Zoology, London, volume 175, pages 211-222.

Graham, Jeffrey B., editor. “Biological Investigation of Malpelo Island, Co-
lombia.” Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology, number 176, 98 pages.

. “Heat Exchange in the Yellow Fin (Thunnus albacares) and Skipjack
(Katsuwonus pelamis) Tunas and the Adaptive Significance of Elevated
Body Temperatures in Scombird Fishes.” Fishery Bulletin 73.

Graham, Jeffrey B., J. H. Gee, and F. S. Robison. “Hydrostatic and Gas Ex-
change Functions of the Lung of the Sea Snake Pelamis platurus.’” Com-
parative Biochemistry and Physiology, volume 50, number 3A, pages 477—
482.

Macintyre, Ian G. “A Diver-Operated Hydraulic Drill for Coring Submerged
Substrates.” Atoll Research Bulletin, number 185, pages 21-25.

Macurda, D. B., and D. L. Meyer. “The Microstructure of the Crinoid Endo-

skeleton.” University of Kansas, Paleontology Contributions, volume 74,
pages 1—22.

McCosker, John E., and Richard H. Rosenblatt. “Fishes Collected at Malpelo
Island.” In “Biological Investigation of Malpelo Island,” edited by J. B.
Graham. Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology, number 176, 98 pages.

Reimer, Amada Alvarez. “Effects of Crude Oils on Corals.” Marine Pollution
Bulletin, volume 6, number 3, pages 39-44.

Warner, Robert R. “Adaptive Significance of Sequential Hermaphroditism in
Animals.” American Naturalist, volume 109, pages 61-82.

“The Reproductive Biology of the Protogynous Hermaphrodite

Pimelometopon pulchrum (Pisces: Labridae).” Fishery Bulletin, volume 73,

pages 262-281.

372 / Smithsonian Year 1975
APPENDIX 7. Publications of the Smithsonian Institution Staff in
Fiscal Year 1975

Publications are by staff members unless otherwise noted.

SPECIAL, PROJECTS, OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY

Goode, James M. The Outdoor Sculpture of Washington, D.C.; a Compre-
hensive Historical Guide. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press,
1974, pages 1-615.

Stann, E. Jeffrey. “Transporation and Urbanization in Caracas, 1891-1936.”
Journal of Interamerican Studies and World Affairs, volume 17 (1975),
pages 82-100.

SCIENCE

CENTER FOR THE STUDY OF MAN

National Anthropological Film Center

Sorenson, E. Richard. “Anthropological Film: A Scientific and Humanistic Re-
source.” In Science, volume 186 (December 20, 1974), pages 1079-1085.

. “Culture and the Expression of Emotion.” In Psychological Anthro-

pology, edited by Thomas R. Williams. The Hague: Mouton, 1975.

“Ecological Disturbance and Population Distribution in the Fore

Region of New Guinea.” In China to the Antipodes, edited by Willis E.

Sibley. The Hague: Mouton, 1976.

. “To Further Phenomenological Inquiry: The National Anthropological

Film Center.” Current Anthropology, volume 16 (June 1975), pages 267-269.

. “Visual Records, Human Knowledge and the Future.” In Principles of
Visual Anthropology, edited by Paul Hockings. The Hague: Mouton, 1975.

Sorenson, E. Richard, and Allison Jablonko. “Research Filming of Naturally
Occurring Phenomena: Basic Strategies.” In Principles of Visual Anthro-
pology, edited by Paul Hockings. The Hague: Mouton, 1975.

Sorenson, E. Richard, and Foster O. Chanock. “Research Films and the Com-
munications Revolution.” In Principles of Visual Anthropology, edited by
Paul Hockings. The Hague: Mouton, 1975.

Vaczek, Nicolas L., and Dirk A. Ballendorf. “Cameras on the World.” Peace
Corps Program and Training Journal, volume 8, number 1 (1975).

Research Institute on Immigration and Ethnic Studies

Bryce-Laporte, Roy. “Crossing out the Cross.” [commentary on Time on the
Cross] Contemporary Sociology, volume 4, number 4 (July 1975), pages
353-361.

. “Dreams and Realities.” Continuities, July 1975.

CHESAPEAKE BAY CENTER FOR ENVIRONMENTAL STUDIES

Beane, Marjorie, Steven A. Dubner, and J. Kevin Sullivan. Citizen Participa-
tion in Maryland’s Continuing Planning Process for Water Quality Man-

Appendix 7. Publications of the Staff / 373
agement, Chesapeake Bay Center for Environmental Studies, Working
Paper No. 3. January 1975.

Beane, Marjorie, and John Ross. The Role of Technical Information in
Decisions on Nuclear Power Plants. Center for Human Systems, Institute
for Environmental Studies, University of Wisconsin, Report 19. Madison,
September 1974.

Falk, John H. “Estimating Experimenter-Induced Bias in Field Studies: A
Cautionary Tale.” Oikos, volume 25 (1974), pages 374-378.

. “Outdoor Biology Instructional Strategies: Development and Evalua-
tion.” The American Biology Teacher, volume 37, number 3 (1975), pages
162-164.

Faust, Maria A. “Micromorphology of Cell Wall of Prorocentrum mariae-
lebouriae (Parke and Ballantine) Nov. Comb.” Journal of Phychology, vol-
ume 10 (1974), pages 315-322.

. “Structure of the Periplast of Cryptomonas ovata var. palustris.”
Journal of Phychology, volume 10 (1974), pages 121-124.

Lynch, James F. ‘Aneides flavipunctatus.” In Catalogue of American Am-
phibians and Reptiles, 158.1-158.2. 1974.

. “Ontogenetic and Geographic Variation in the Morphology and Ecol-
ogy of the Black Salamander (Aneides flavipunctatus).” Ph.D. thesis, Uni-
versity of California, Berkeley, 1974, 430 pages.

Lynch, James F., and N. K. Johnson. “Turnover and Equilibria in Insular Avi-
faunas, with Special Reference to the California Channel Islands.” Condor,
volume 76 (1974), pages 370-384.

Lynch, James F., and D. B. Wake. “Aneides lugubris.” In Catalogue of Ameri-
can Amphibians and Reptiles, 159.1-159.2. 1974.

. “Systematics of the Chiropterotriton bromeliacia Group (Amphibia:

Caudata), with Description of Two New Species from Guatemala.” Los

Angeles County Museum Contributions in Science, number 265 (1975),

pages 1—40.

EORD PIERCE BUREAU

Gore, Robert H. “Biological Results of the University of Miami Deep-Sea Ex-
peditions. 102. On a Small Collection of Porcellanid Crabs from the
Caribbean Sea (Crustacea, Decapoda, Anomura).” Bulletin of Marine Sci-
ence, volume 24, number 3 (1974), pages 700-721.

. “Studies on Decapod Crustacea from the Indian River Region of
Florida. I]. Megalobrachium soriatum (Say, 1818): The Larval Development
under Laboratory Culture (Crustacea; Decapoda; Porcellanidae).” Bulletin
of Marine Science, volume 23, number 4 (1974), pages 837-856.

Gore, Robert H., and Linda J. Becker. “Studies on Stomatopod Crustacea
of the Indian River Region of Florida. I. Rediscovery and Extension of
Range of Heterosquilla Armata (Smith, 1881).” Proceedings of the Bio-
logical Society of Washington, volume 88 (1975), pages 21-27.

Gore, Robert H., and R. E. Grizzle. “Studies on Decapod Crustacea from the
Indian River Region of Florida. III. Callinectes bocourti A. Milne Edwards,
1879 (Decapoda, Portunidae) from the Central East Coast of Florida.”
Crustaceana, volume 27, number 3 (1974), pages 306-308.

Rice, Mary E. “Sipuncula.” Chapter 4 in Reproduction of Marine Invertebrates,
by A. C. Giese and J. Pearse, volume 2, pages 67-127. New York: Aca-
demic Press.

“Unsegmented Coelomate Worms: Sipuncula, Echiura, Priapula.”

Chapter in Light’s Manual of Intertidal Invertebrates of the Coast of

California, edited by R. I. Smith, revised edition, pages 128-134. University

of California Press, 1975.

374 / Smithsonian Year 1975
“Gametogenesis in Three Species of Sipuncula: Phascolosoma
agassizii, Golfingia pugettensis and Themiste pyroides. La Cellule, volume
70, number 2 (1974), pages 1-35.

. [Review] The Phyla Sipuncula and Echiura, by A. C. Stephen and
S. J. Edmonds. Quarterly Review of Biology, volume 49, number 2 (1974),
page 160.

NATIONAL AIR AND SPACE MUSEUM

Bondurant, Russell Lynn. “The Planetarium Artistically Speaking.” Proceed-
ings of the International Society of Planetarium Educators. Special publi-
cation #6 (October, 1974), pages 33-34.

Boyne, Walter J., “Last Fighter From Curtiss.” Airpower.

, “Martin’s Mercenaries.” Wings.

, “The Hall-Aluminum Story.” Airpower.

, ‘The Other Martin.” Wings.

———, “McCook Field Story, Part One.” Wings.

—— , “McCook Field Story, Part Two.” Airpower.

“Rocheville, Imagineer Emeritus.” Aviation Quarterly.

“The Fortunate Fairchild.” Aviation Quarterly.

“Weird Wonderful Warplanes.” Air Force Magazine.

Casey, Louis, and John Batchelor. Naval Aircraft, 1939-1945. London: Phoebus
Publishing Co., 1975.

Chamberlain, Von Del. “The Night Tourist.” Astronomy, volume 3 (1975),
pages 43-47.

. “Stars of Wonder,” Youth News, volume 56 (1974), pages 20-22.

Chamberlain, Von Del, John C. Brandt, Stephen P. Maran, Ray Williamson,
Robert S. Harrington, Clarion Cochran, Muriel and William J. Kennedy.
“Possible Rock Art Records of the Crab Nebula Supernova in the Western
United States.” In Archaeoastronomy in Pre-Columbian America, edited by
A. F. Aveni. University of Texas Press, 1975.

Collins, Michael. Carrying the Fire. Farrar, Straus and Giroux, 1974.

Crouch, Thomas D. “Mason’s Aerial Steamship.” Journal of the American
Aviation Historical Society, volume 19, number 2 (Summer 1974).

Durant, F. C. III, co-editor. First Steps Toward Space. Smithsonian Annals of
Flight, number 10. 1974, vi + 307 pages, illustrated. Presented at the First
and Second Symposia on the History of Astronautics 1967, 1968, Congress
of the International Astronautical Federation.

El-Baz, F. “Orbital Photographs of the Moon—Why We Need More.” In Lunar
Science VI. Sixth Lunar Science Conference, Goddard Space Flight Center,
Supplementary Abstract X-682-75-46. 1975, pages 5-6.

. “A Possible History of the Moon and the Evolution of Its Surface.”

In NASM Center Set Up to Study Apollo Data, by R. Friedman. Smith-

sonian Institution Research Reports, Number 8. 1974, pages 5 and 8.

. “Surface Geology of the Moon.” Annual Reviews of Astronomy and

Astrophysics, volume 12 (1974), pages 135-165.

. [Review] The Moon: Its Past Development and Present Behavior, by
J. H. Tatsch. Sudbury, Mass.: Tatsch Assoicates. Geotimes, volume 19,
number 12 (1974), page 34.

El-Baz, F., and D. A. Mitchell. “Remote Sensing as a Tool for Development.”
First Islamic Conference on Science and Technology, University of Riyad,
Riyad, Saudi Arabia: 1975, pages 1-11.

El-Baz, F., and D. E. Wilhelms. “Photogeological, Geophysical, and Geo-
chemical Data on the East Side of the Moon.” In Lunar Science VI, Lunar
Science Institute, Houston, 1975, pages 239-241.

Mikesh, Robert C. “Art and the Airman.” American Aviation Historical So-
ciety Journal, Winter 1974, pages 324-325.

Appendix 7. Publications of the Staff / 375
. “Bars for the Star.” American Aviation Historical Society Journal,

Fall 1974, pages 205-207.

. “Dinner Key.” Aviation Quarterly, volume 1, number 1 (1974).

. “LTA’s Parasite Sparrowhawk.” Koku Fan, January 1975, pages 90-92,

108-117; February 1975, pages 86-89; 136-138.

. “Messerschmidtt Bf.109G Reborn.” Koku Fan, August 1974, pages

83+.

. “Return of the Ausburg Eagle.” Airpower, November 1974, pages

28—37.

. “A Study of Zero Fighter Serial Sequencing,” Koku Fan, May 1975,

pages 80-83.

. “That Great Hook-Up in the Sky.” Wings, February 1975, pages
16-29.

Strain, P. L., and El-Baz, F. “Sinuous Rilles of the Harbinger Mountains Re-
gion of the Moon.” In Lunar Science VI, Lunar Science Institute, Houston,
1975, pages 786-788.

Winter, Frank H., co-author. “Edward M. Boxer and His Rockets in Peace and
War.” Spaceflight, November 1974.

Wolfe, R. W., and Giese, R. F. “Hydroxyl Orientation and Interlayer Bonding
in Trioctahedral 1:1 Phyllosilicates.” 23rd Annual Clay and Minerals Con-
ference, Cleveland, Ohio, October 1974.

. “Interlayer Bonding in 1-Layer Kaolin Structures.” Clays and Clay
Minerals, volume 22 (1974), page 137.

Zisfein, M. B. “A Home for the National Air and Space Museum.” Virginia
Aviation, January-March 1975.

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY

Department of Anthropology

Angel, J. Lawrence. “Early Neolithic People of Nea Nikomedeia. Fundamenta.
Die Anfange des Neolithikums von Orient bis Nordeuropa.” In Anthro-
pologie, edited by I. Schwidetzky, volume 8, pages 103-112. 1974.

. “Patterns of Fractures from Neolithic to Modern Times.” Anthro-
pologiai Kozlemenyek 18, pages 9-18. Budapest: Akademiai Kiado, 1974.
Evans, Clifford, and Betty J. Maggers. “Introducao. Programa Nacional de
Pesquisas Arqueologicas, Resultados Preliminares do Quinto Ano, 1969-
1970.” Museu Paraense Emilio Goeldi, Publs. Avulsas No. 26, pages 7—10.

Belem, 1974.

Ewers, John C. Ethnological Report on the Blackfeet and Gros Ventres Tribes
of Indians. New York and London: Garland Publishing Company, Inc.,
1974, pages 23-202.

. Ethnological Report on the Chippewa-Creek Tribe of the Rocky Roys

Reservation and the Little Shell Bank of Indians. New York and London:

Garland Publishing Co., Inc., 1974, pages 9-182.

. “The American West as a Theater of Conflict.” Chapter in Frontier

America: The Far West. [Exhibition Catalog] Museum of Fine Arts, Boston,

Massachuetts, pages 78-85. 1975.

. “Horsemen of the Plains.” Chapter in The World of the American

Indian. Washington, D.C.: National Geographic Society, 1974.

. Introduction to Indians of the United States and Canada, a Bibliog-
raphy, edited by Dwight L. Smith, pages xiii-xvi. Santa Barbara, California:
American Bibliographical Center, 1974.

Fitzhugh, William W. “Ground Slates in the Scandinavian Younger Stone Age
with Reference to Circumpolar Maritime Adaptations.” Proceedings of the
Prehistoric Society. 1974.

376 / Smithsonian Year 1975
. “Smithsonian Fieldwork on the Central Labrador Coast.” Canadian

Archeological Association, Bulletin 6. 1974.

. “Comparative Approach to Maritime Adaptations, ICAES Congress,

Chicago, 1973.” In Maritime Adaptations of the Circumpolar Zone. The

Hague: Mouton, 1975.

, editor. Maritime Adaptations of the Circumpolar Zone. ICAES Con-
gress, 1973, Chicago. The Hague: Mouton, 1975.

Hare, P. E., D. J. Ortner, D. W. Von Endt, and R. E. Taylor. “Amino Acid
Dating of Bone and Teeth.” Abstracts with Programs 1974, Annual Meetings
of the Geological Society of America, volume 6 (1974), page 778.

Meggers, Betty J. “Environment and Culture in Amazonia.” In Man in the
Amazon, edited by Charles Wagley, pages 91-110. Gainesville: University
of Florida Press, 1974.

. “The Transpacific Origin of MesoAmerican Civilization: A Prelimi-
nary Review on the Evidence and its Theoretical Implications.” American
Anthropologist, volume 77 (1975), pages 1-27.

Ortner, Donald J. “Porotic Hyperostosis of the Skull in Metabolic Disease.”
[Abstract] American Journal of Physical Anthropologists, volume 42 (1975),
page 321.

. “A Precision Microdissection Procedure for Undecalcified Bone Thin
Sections.” Calcified Tissue Research, volume 17 (1975), pages 169-172.
Riesenberg, Saul M. “Six Pacific Island Discoveries.” The American Neptune,

volume 34, number 4 (1974), pages 249-257.

Rose, Carolyn L. “A New Approach to Archeological Conservation.” Bulletin
of the International Institute for Conservation of Historic and Artistic
Works, 1975.

Stanford, Dennis J. “Preliminary Report of the Excavation of the Jones-Miller
Hell Gap Site, Yuma County, Colorado.” Southwestern Lore, volume 40,
numbers 3 and 4 (1975), page 29.

Stewart, T. D. Human Skeletal Remains from Dzibilchaltun, Yucatan, Mexico,
with a Review of Cranial Deformity Types in the Maya Region. Middle
American Research Institute, Tulane University, Publication 31. National
Geographic Society: Tulane University Program of Research in Yucatan,
1974, pages 199-225.

. “Recent Developments in Understanding the Relationship Between the

Neanderthals and Modern Man.” Chapter 5 in Sir Grafton Elliot Smith, the

Man and his Works, edited by A. P. Elkin and N. M. G. Macintosh, pages

67-82. Sydney: University of Sydney Press, 1974.

. “Perspectives on Some Problems of Early Man Common to America

and Australia.” Chapter 10 in Sir Grafton Elliot Smith, the Man and his

Works, edited by A. P. Elkin and N. M. G. Macintosh, pages 114-135.

Sydney: University of Sydney Press, 1974.

. “Cranial Dysraphism Mistaken for Trephination.” American Journal

of Physical Anthropology, volume 42, number 3 (1975), pages 435-437.

. “Nonunion of Fractures in Antiquity, with Descriptions of Five
Cases from the New World Involving the Forearm.” Bulletin of the New
York Academy of Medicine, second series, volume 50, number 8 (1974),
pages 875-891.

Sturtevant, William C. “Woodsmen and Villagers of the East.” In The World
of the American Indian, edited by Jules B. Billard. Washington: National
Geographic Society, 1974.

. “Huns, Free-Thinking Americans, and the AAA.” History of Anthro-

pology Newsletter, volume 2, number 1 (1975), pages 4-6.

. “Commentary on Papers by TePaske and Tanner.” In Eighteenth-

Century Florida and its Borderlands, edited by Samuel Proctor, pages

40-47. Gainesville: University Presses of Florida, 1975.

Appendix 7. Publications of the Staff / 377
, editor. Boxes and Bowls: Decorated Containers by Nineteenth-Century
Haida, Tlingit, Bella Bella, and Tsimshian Indian Artists. [Exhibition Cata-
logue] Washington: Smithsonian Institution Press for the Renwick Gallery,
1974, 93 pages.

Trousdale, William. “The Long Sword and Scabbard Slide in Asia.” Smith-
sonian Contributions to Anthropology, number 17. 1975.

Ubelaker, Douglas H. “Reconstruction of Demographic Profiles from Ossuary
Skeletal Samples, A Case Study From the Tidewater Potomac.” Smith-
sonian Contributions to Anthropology, number 18. 1975.

Van Beek, Gus W. “Tell Gemmeh.” Israel Exploration Journal, volume 24
(1974).

Von Endt, D. W., and P. E. Hare. “The Chemical Basis for Amino Acid
Dating of Bone.” [Abstract] American Journal of Physical Anthropology,
volume 42 (1975), page 337.

Von Endt, D. W., P. E. Hare, D. J. Ortner, and A. I. Stix. “Amino Acid
Isomerization Rates and Their Use in Dating Archeological Bone.” Proceed-
ings of the Society of American Archeology, volume 66 (1975).

Wedel, Mildred M. “The Benard de la Harpe Historiography on French Co-
lonial Louisiana.” Louisiana Studies, volume 13, number 1 (1974), pages
9-67. Natchitoches.

. “Le Sueur and the Dakota Sioux.” In Aspects of Great Lakes Anthro-

pology, Papers in Honor of Lloyd A. Wilford, edited by Elden Johnson,

pages 157-171. Minnesota Historical Society.

“The Prehistoric and Historic Habitat of the Missouri and Oto
Indians.” In American Indian Ethnohistory, Plains Indians, compiled and
edited by David Agee Horr, pages 25-76. Garland Publishing Co., 1974.

Wedel, Waldo R. “The Prehistoric and Historic Habitat of the Kansa Indians.”
In Pawnee and Kansas (Kaw) Indians, compiled and edited by David Agee
Horr, pages 421-453. Garland Publishing Co., 1974.

. “Some Early Euro-American Percepts of the Great Plains and Their

Influence on Anthropological Thinking.” In Images of the Great Plains,

edited by B. W. Blouet and M. P. Lawson. University of Nebraska Press,

LOTS

Department of Botany

Agostini, Getulio, and Dieter C. Wasshausen. “Tetramerium (Acanthaceae),
Un Genero Nuevo para la Flora de Venezuela.” Acta Botanica Venezuelica,
volume 8, numbers 1-4 (1973), pages 163-166.

Ayensu, Edward S. “Science and Technology in Black Africa.” In World
Encyclopedia of Black Peoples, edited by Keith Irvine, pages 306-317. St.
Clair Shores, Michigan: Scholarly Press Inc., 1975.

. “Beautiful Gamblers of the Biosphere.” Natural History, volume 83,

number 8 (1974), pages 37-45.

. “Endangered and Threatened Orchids of the United States.” American

Orchid Society Bulletin, volume 44, number 5 (1975), pages 384-394.

. “Leaf Anatomy and Systematics of New World Velloziaceae.” Smith-

sonian Contributions to Botany, number 15 (1974), pages 1-125.

. “Plant and Bat Interactions in West Africa.” Annals of the Missouri
Botanical Garden, volume 61, number 3 (1974), pages 702-727.

Ayensu, Edward S., and Albert Bentum. “Commercial Timbers of West Africa.”
Smithsonian Contributions to Botany, number 14 (1974), pages 1-69.

Ayensu, Edward S., and John J. Skvarla. “Fine Structure of Velloziaceae
Pollen.” Bulletin of the Torrey Botanical Club, volume 101, number 5 (1974),
pages 250-266.

378 / Smithsonian Year 1975
Chater, Arthur O., Robert A. DeFilipps, and Vernon H. Heywood. “Report of
a Discussion on the Future of the Flora Europaea Organization.” Boletim da
Sociedade Broteriana, volume 47, Suplemento (1974), pages 409-412.

Cuatrecasas, J. “Miscellaneous Notes on Neotropical Flora VI.” Phytologia,
volume 29, number 5 (1975), pages 369-385.

DeFilipps, Robert A. “Guzmania megastachya (Baker) Mez.” Ashingtonia,
volume 1, number 7 (July 1974), pages 74-75.

. “A New Combination in Platanthera L. C. Rich.” American Orchid
Society Bulletin, volume 44, number 5 (May 1975), page 405.

Fosberg, F. R. “Dr. Raven’s Proposals.’” Taxon, volume 24 (1975), pages 192-
193.

. “Miscellaneous Notes on the Flora of Aldabra and Neighboring
Islands. III.” Kew Bulletin, volume 29 (1974), pages 253-266.

Hale, Mason E., Jr. “Morden-Smithsonian Expedition to Dominica: The Lichens
(Thelotremataceae).” Smithsonian Contributions to Botany, number 16
(1974), 46 pages.

“Bulbothrix, Parmelina, Relicina, and Xanthoparmelia, Four New

Genera in the Parmeliaceae (Lichens).” Phytologia, volume 28 (1974), pages

479-490.

. “Delimitation of the Lichen Genus Hypotrachyna (Vainio) Hale.”

Phythologia, volume 28 (1974), pages 340-342.

. “New Combinations in the Lichen Genus Parmotrema Massalongo.”

Phytologia, volume 28 (1974), pages 334-339.

. “New Combinations in the Lichen Geus Pseudoparmelia Lynge.”

Phytologia, volume 29 (1974), pages 188-191.

. “Notes on Species of Parmotrema (Lichenses: Parmeliaceae) Contain-
ing Yellow Pigments.” Mycotaxon, volume 1 (1974), pages 105-116.

Hermann, F. J., and H. Robinson. “Additions to the Bryophyte Flora of Bo-
livia.” The Bryologist, volume 77 (1974), pages 643-645.

Jenkins, Dale W., and Edward S. Ayensu. “The Nation’s First Census of En-
dangered Plants Finds One-Tenth May be Marked for Extinction.” Smith-
sonian, volume 5, number 10 (1975), pages 92-96.

King, R. M., and H. Robinson. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae).
CXX. Additions to the Genus Koanophyllon in Panama.” Phytologia, vol-
ume 28 (1974), pages 67-72.

. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). CXXI. Additions to the

Genus Fleischmannia.” Phytologia, volume 28 (1974), pages 73-96.

. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). CXXII. A New Genus,

Sartorina.” Phytologia, volume 28 (1974), pages 97-100.

. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). CXXIII. Additions to the

Genus Mikania.” Phytologia, volume 28 (1974), pages 272-281.

. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). CXXIV, A New Genus,

Eitenia.” Phytologia, volume 28 (1974), pages 282-285.

. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). CXXV. Additions to the

Genus Bartlettina.” Phytologia, volume 28 (1974), pages 286-293.

. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). CXXVI. A New Species of

Ageratum.” Phytologia, volume 28 (1974), pages 491-493.

. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). CXXVIII. Four Additions to

the Genus Ageratina from Mexico and Central America.” Phytologia,

volume 28 (1974), pages 494-502.

. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). CXXVII. Additions to the

American and Pacific Adenostemmatinae. Adenostemma, Gymnocoronis

and Sciadocephala.” Phytologia, volume 29 (1974), pages 1-20.

. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). CXXIX. A New Genus, Vit-

tetia.”” Phytologia, volume 29 (1974), pages 121-122.

. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). CXXX. Notes on Campu-

Appendix 7. Publications of the Staff / 379
loclinium, Koanophyllon, Mikania and Symphyopappus.” Phytologia, volume

29 (1974), pages 123-129.

. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). CXXXII. The Genus Pha-

lacraea.” Phytologia, volume 29 (1974). pages 251-256.

. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). CXXXI. A New Genus,

Guevaria.” Phytologia, volume 29 (1974), pages 257-263.

. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). CXXXIII. A New Genus,

Pigeriella.” Phytologia, volume 29 (1974), pages 264-266.

. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). CXXXIV. A New Species of

Sciadocephala from Panama.” Phytologia, volume 29 (1975), pages 343-346.

. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). CXXXV. A New Species

of Ageratina from Panama.” Phytologia, volume 29 (1975), pages 347-350.

. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). CXXXVI. Four New Species

of Neomirandea.” Phytologia, volume 29 (1975), pages 351-361.

. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). CXXXVII. Two New Species

of Neomirandea.” Phytologia, volume 30 (1975), pages 9-14.

. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). CXXXVIII. A New Genus,

Critoniella.’” Phytologia, volume 30 (1975), pages 284—285.

. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). CXXXIX. A New Genus,

Aristeguietia.” Phytologia, volume 30 (1975), pages 217-220.

“Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). CXL. A New Genus

Grosvenoria.” Phytologia, volume 30 (1975), pages 221-222.

. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). CXLI. A New Genus,

Asplundianthus.” Phytologia, volume 30 (1975), pages 223-228.

. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). CXLII. A New Genus,
Badilloa.” Phytologia, volume 30 (1975), pages 229-234.

Lellinger, David B. “The Correct Name of a Lycopodium New to Panama.”
American Fern Journal, volume 64, number 2 (1974), page 64.

. “Publication of the Ferns and Fern-Allies in the “Primitiae Florae
Costaricensis.’’’ American Fern Journal, volume 64, number 3 (1974), pages
77-80.

Maguire, B., J. J. Wurdock, and Y. Huang. “Pollen Grains of Some American
Olacaceae.” Grana, volume 14, number 1 (December 1974), pages 26-38.
Mueller-Dombois, D., and F. R. Fosberg. “Vegetation Map of Hawaii Vol-
canoes National Park (at 1: 52,000).” Technical Report (Cooperative Na-

tional Park Resources Studies Unit), number 4 (1974), pages 1-44.

Nicolson, D. H. Introduction to Flora Idica, by W. Roxburgh (facsimile re-
print of Ist edition, 1820-1824), pages vii-ix. New York: Oriole Editions,
1975.

. “A New Lectotypification of the Genus Xanthosoma Schott (Aca-

ceae).”” Taxon, volume 24 (1975), pages 345-347.

. “Orthography of Names and Epithets: The i/j and u/v Problem.”

Taxon, volume 23 (1974), pages 843-851.

“Orthography of Names and Epithets: Latinization of Personal
Names.” Taxon, volume 23 (1974), pages 549-561.

Nowicke, Joan W. “Three New Species of Tournefortia (Boraginaceae)
from the Andes and Comments on the Manuscripts of E. P. Killip.” Bulletin
of the Torrey Botanical Club, volume 101 (1975). pages 229-234.

Nowicke, Joan W., and John J. Skvarla. “A Palynological Investigation of the
Genus Tournefortia (Boraginaceae).” American Journal of Botany, volume
61 (1974), pages 1021-1036.

Porter, D. M., and J. Cuatrecasas. ‘“Brunelliaceae.” In “Flora of Panama,” by
Robert E. Woodson, Jr., Robert W. Schery and Collaborators, Annals of
the Missouri Botanical Garden, volume 62, number 1 (1975), pages 11-14.

Read, Robert W. “The Genus Thrinax (Palmae: Coryphoideae).” Smithsonian
Contributions to Botany, number 19 (1975), pages iii—98.

380 / Smithsonian Year 1975
Read, Robert W., and G. E. Daniels. “Puya in Costa Rica.” Journal of the
Bromeliad Society, volume 25, number 2 (1975), pages 43-47.

Robinson, H. “Additions to the Genus Taxiphyllum (Hypnaceae, Musci).”
Phytologia, volume 28 (1974), pages 64-66.

. “Notes on the mosses of Juan Fernandez and Southern South

America.” Phytologia, volume 29 (1974), pages 116-120.

. “Studies in the Heliantheae (Asteraceae). III. A New Species of

Schistocarpha.” Phytologia, volume 29 (1974), pages 247-250.

. “Studies in the Heliantheae (Asterasceae). IV. A New Species of

Schistocarpha from Panama.” Phytologia, volume 29 (1975), pages 339-342.

. “Studies in the Senecioneae (Asteraceae). XI. The Genus Arnoglos-
sum.” Phytologia, volume 28 (1974), pages 294-295.

Robinson, H., and F. D. Bowers. “A New Species of Oreoweisia from
Mexico (Dicranaceae, Musci).” Phytologia, volume 29 (1974), pages
114-115.

Robinson, H., and R. D. Bretell. “Studies in the Liabeae (Asteraceae). II.
Preliminary Survey of the Genera.” Phytologia, volume 28 (1974), pages
43-63.

Robinson, H., and D. Griffin III. “A New Species of Rhynchotegiopsis from
Costa Rica (Hookeriaceae, Musci).”” Phytologia, volume 30 (1975), pages
281-283.

Sachet, M.-H. “State of Knowledge of Coral Reefs as Ecosystems.” In “Com-
parative Investigations of Tropical Reefs Ecosystems, Background for an
Integrated Coral Reef Program,” edited by M.-H. Sachet and A. L. Dahl.
Atoll Research Bulletin, number 172 (1974), pages 121-169.

Schubert, Bernice G., and Lyman B. Smith. “Begoniales.” Encyclopedia Bri-
tannica, fifteenth edition. 1974, volume 2, pages 801-804.

Shetler, Stanwyn G. “The Flora North America Generalized System for De-
scribing the Morphology of Organisms.” Museum Data Bank Research Re-
port, number 4 (January 1975).

. “A Generalized Descriptive Data Bank as a Basis for Computer-

Assisted Identification.” In Biological Identification with Computers, edited

by R. J. Pankhurst, pages 197-235. New York and London: Academic Press,

1975.

. “Information Systems and Data Banking.” In Vascular Plant Syste-

matics, by Albert E. Radford, William C. Dickison, Jimmy R. Massey, and

C. Ritchie Bell, revised edition, pages 791-821. New York: Harper and

Row, 1974.

. “Natural History for Everyone.” Audubon Naturalist News, volume 1,

number 4 (1975), page 2.

. “Natural History of the Season: April’s Riot of Wildflowers.”

Audubon Naturalist News, volume 1, number 3 (1975), page 12.

. “Natural History of the Season: March is for the Bluebirds.” Audu-

bon Naturalist News, volume 1, number 2 (1975), page 7.

“Our Vanishing Natural Space.” Atlantic Naturalist, volume 30,

number 1 (1975), page 2.

. “Singing Bushes in Your Garden.” Audubon Naturalist News, volume
1, number 3 (1975), page 2.

Simpson, Beryl B. “Glacial Climates in the Eastern Tropical Pacific.” Nature,
volume 253 (1975), pages 34-36.

. “Glacial Migrations of Plants: Island Biogeographical Evidence.”
Science, volume 185 (1974), pages 698-700.

Skog, Laurence E. “New Peruvian Gesneriaceae.” Phytologia, volume 28,
number 3 (1974), pages 233-240.

Smith, Lyman B. “Bromeliales.” Encyclopedia Britannica, fifteenth edition.
1974, volume 3, pages 323-327.

“Key to the Subfamilies and Genera of the Bromeliaceae.” In

Appendix 7. Publications of the Staff / 381
Bromeliads, a Cultural Handbook, by Mulford B. Foster and others, second

edition, pages 9-11. Arcadia, California: The Bromeliad Society, Inc., 1974.

“Lost Bromeliad Identified.” Journal of the Bromeliad Society,

volume 24, number 5 (1974), page 196.

. “Notes on Bromeliaceae, XXXV.” Phytologia, volume 28, number 1

(1974), pages 24-42.

. “Notes on Bromeliaceae, XXXVI.” Phytologia, volume 28, number 4

(1974), pages 319-333.

. “Tillandsia velickeana.” Journal of the Bromeliad Society, volume 24,
number 6 (1974), page 224.

Smith, Lyman B., and Edward S. Ayensu. “Velloziaceae.” In Flora of Tropical
East Africa, edited by R. M. Polhill, pages 1-8. London: Crown Agents,
OZoE

Smith, Lyman B., and R. J. Downs. “Pitcairnioideae, Bromeliaceae.” Flora
Neotropica, monograph number 14 (1974), pages 1-658.

Smith, Lyman B., and Robert W. Read. “Notes on Bromeliaceae, XXXVII.”
Phytologia, volume 30, number 5 (1975), pages 289-303.

Smith, Lyman B., Harold E. Robinson, and Roberto M. Klein. “Hipocra-
teaceas.” Florula da Ilha de Santa Catarina, fascicle HIPO (1974), pages
1-31.

Solbrig, Otto T., and Beryl B. Simpson. “Components of Regulation of a
Natural Population of Dandelions in Michigan.” Journal of Ecology, vol-
ume 62 (1974), pages 473-486.

Soderstrom, T. R., and C. E. Calderén. “Primitive Forest Grasses and Evolution
of the Bambusoideae.” Biotropica, volume 6 (1974), pages 141-153.

Soderstrom, T. R., and J. E. Vidal. “An Ecological Study of Vegetation of the
Nam Ngum Reservoir (Laos).”” Prepared for the Mekong Committee through
the Smithsonian Office of Ecology (xeroxed). 46 pages.

Stern, William Louis. “The Bond Between Botany and Medicine.” Bulletin of
the Pacific Tropical Botanical Garden, volume 4 (1974), pages 41-60.

. “The Botanist as Sleuth.” Bulletin of the International Wood Col-

lectors Society, volume 27, number 7 (1974), pages 4-9.

. “Comparative Anatomy and Systematics of Woody Saxifragaceae.

Escallonia.” Botanical Journal of the Linnean Society of London, volume 68

(1974), pages 1-20.

. “Development of the Amentiferous Concept.” Brittonia, volume 25

(1974), pages 316-333.

. “Saxifragales.” Encyclopedia Britannica. 1974, volume 16, pages 291-

302.

Steyermark, J. A., and Lyman B. Smith. “A New Drosera from Venezuela.”
Rhodora, volume 76, number 807 (1974), pages 491-493.

Terrell, E. E., and H. Robinson. “Luziolinae, a New Subtribe of Oryzoid
Grasses.” Bulletin of the Torrey Botanical Club, volume 101 (1974), pages
235-245.

Wasshausen, Dieter C. “The Genus Aphelandra (Acanthaceae).” Smithsonian
Contributions to Botany, number 18 (1975), pages 1-157.

Wetmore, Ralph H., Elso S. Barghoorn, and William Louis Stern. “The Harvard
University Wood Collection in the Rejuvenation of Systematic Wood
Anatomy.” Taxon, volume 23 (1974), pages 739-745.

Wurdack, J. J. “Notes on Brazilian Polygalaceae.” Phytologia, volume 28, num-
ber 1 (May 1974), pages 10-14.

. “Certamen Melastomataceis XXIII.” Phytologia, volume 28, number 2

(October 1974), pages 135-151.

Depariment of Entomology

Baumann, Richard W. “What is Alloperla imbecilla (Say)? Designation of a
Neotype, and a New Alloperla from Eastern North America (Plecoptera:

382 / Smithsonian Year 1975
Chloroperlidae).” Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington,
volume 87 (1974), pages 257-264.

Baumann, Richard W., and Arden R. Gaufin. “Relocation of Plecoptera Type
Specimens.” Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Washington,
volume 76 (1974), pages 450-451.

Burger, John F. “Horse Flies of Arizona IV. Notes on the Keys to the Adult
Tabanidae of Arizona, Subfamily Tabaninae, Genus Tabanus (Diptera).
Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Washington, volume 77 (1975),
pages 15-33.

Clarke, J. F. Gates. “The National Collection of Lepidoptera.” Journal of the
Lepidopterists’ Society, volume 28 (1975), pages 181-204.

Davis, Donald R. “A New Species of Paraclemensia from Europe with Com-
ments on the Distribution and Speciation of the Genus (Lepidoptera: In-
curvariidae).” Alexanor, volume 8 (1974), pages 342-348, 12 figures.

. “Two New Species of Bagworm Moths from Venezuela with Special
Remarks on Reproductive Morphology in Psychidae (Lepidoptera: Psy-
chidae).” Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Washington, volume
77 (1975), pages 66—77.

Duckworth, W. Donald, and Thomas D. Eichlin. “Clearwing Moths of Aus-
tralia and New Zealand (Lepidoptera: Sesiidae).” Smithsonian Contributions
to Zoology, number 180 (1974), 45 pages.

Erwin, Terry L. “The Genus Coptocarpus Chaudoir of the Australian Region
with Notes on Related African Species (Coleoptera: Carabidae: Oodini).”
Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology, number 184 (1974), pages 1-25.

. “Studies of the Subtribe Tachyina (Coleoptera: Carabidae: Bembi-

diini), Part II: A Revision of the New World-Australian Genus Pericompsus

LeConte.” Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology, number 162 (1974), pages

1-96.

. “Studies of the Subtribe Tachyina (Coleoptera: Carabidae: Bembi-

diini) Supplement A: Lectotype Designations for New World Species, Two

New Genera, and Notes on Generic Concepts.” Proceedings of the Entomo-

logical Society of Washington, volume 76, number 2 (1974), pages 123-

155.

. [Review] Surtsey, Iceland: The Development of a New Fauna, 1963-
1970, Terrestrial Invertebrates, by Carl H. Lindroth, Hugo Anderson, Hogni
Bodvarsson, and Sigurdur H. Richter. Entomologica Scandinavica, Suppl. 5,
1973. Copenhagen, Denmark: Munksgaard, International Booksellers and
Publishers Ltd.

Field, William D. “Ctenuchid Moths of Ceramidia Butler, Ceramidiodes Hamp-
son and the Caca Species Group of Antichloris Hubner.” Smithsonian
Contributions to Zoology, number 198 (1975), 45 pages.

Flint, Oliver S., Jr. “The Genus Culoptila in the United States with Two New
Combinations (Trichoptera: Glossosmatidae).” Proceedings of the Ento-
mological Society of Washington, volume 76 (1974), page 284.

. “Studies of Neotropical Caddisflies, XV: The Trichoptera of Surinam.”

Studies on the Fauna of Suriname and other Guyanas, volume 14 (1974),

pages 1-151.

. “Studies of Neotropical Caddisflies, XVII: The Genus Smicridea from

North and Central America (Trichoptera: Hydropsychidae).” Smithsonian

Contributions to Zoology, number 167 (1974), 65 pages.

. “Studies of Neotropical Caddisflies, XIX: The Genus Cailloma

(Trichoptera: Rhyacophilidae).” Proceedings of the Biological Society of

Washington, volume 87 (1974), pages 473-484.

. “Studies of Neotropical Caddisflies, XX: Trichoptera Collected by the

Hamburg South—Peruvian Expedition.” Entomologische Mitteilungen aus

dem Zoologischen Museum Hamburg, volume 4 (1975), pages 565-573.

. [Review] Trichoptera (Kécherfliegen), by Hans Malicky, 1973. Pro-

Appendix 7. Publications of the Staff / 383
ceedings of the Entomological Society of Washington, volume 87 (1975),
page 14.

Froeschner, Richard C. “Heteroptera.” Encyclopedia Britannica, fifteenth edi-
tion. 1974, volume 8, pages 845-853.

. “Three New Species of Burrowing Bugs Found in Association with
Ants in Brazil (Hemiptera: Cydnidae).” Journal of the Kansas Entomological
Society, volume 48, number 1 (1975), pages 105-110.

Harrison, Bruce A., and J. M. Klein. “A Revised List of the Anopheles of
Cambodia.” Mospuito Systematics, volume 7 (1975), pages 9-12.

Harrison, Bruce A., J. F. Reinert, S. Sirivanakarn, Y-M, Huang, E. L. Peyton,
and Botha de Meillon. ‘Distributional and Biological Notes on Mosquitoes
from Sri Lanka (Ceylon) (Diptera: Culicidae).” Mosquito Systematics, vol-
ume 6 (1974), pages 142-162.

Huang, Yiau-Min. “Lectotype Designation for Aedes (Stegomyia) chemul-
poensis Yamada with a Note on its Assignment to the aegypti Group of
Species (Diptera: Culicidae). Proceedings of the Entomological Society of
Washington, volume 76 (1974), pages 208-211.

. “A New Species of Aedes (Stegomyia) from the Andaman Islands

(Diptera: Culicidae).” Mosquito Systematics, volume 6 (1974), pages 137—

141.

. “Occurrence of Two Types of Gynandromorphism in a Sibling Series
of Aedes (Stegomyia) craggi (Barraud) (Diptera: Culicidae).’”” Mosquito
News, volume 34 (1974), pages 428-430.

. “A Redescription of Aedes (Stegomyia) pseudoscutellaris (Theo-
bald) with a Note on the Taxonomic Status of Aedes (Stegomyia) poly-
nesiensis Marks (Diptera: Culicidae).” Mosquito Systematics, volume 7
(1975), pages 87-101.

Hurd, Paul D., Jr., Roland L. Fisher, Kenneth L. Knight, Charles D. Michener,
W. Wayne Moss, Paul Oman, and Jerry A. Powell. “Report of the Ad-
visory Committee for Systematics Resources in Entomology.” Bulletin of the
Entomological Society of America, volume 20 (1974), pages 237-242, 1
figure, 1 table.

Hurd, Paul D., Jr., and E. Gorton Linsley. “The Principal Larrea Bees of the
Southwestern United States (Hymenoptera: Apoidea).” Smithsonian Con-
tributions to Zoology, volume 193 (1975), 74 pages, 18 figures, 15 tables.

. “Some Insects Other Than Bees Associated with Larrea tridentata in

the Southwestern United States.” Proceedings of the Entomological Society

of Washington, volume 77 (1975), pages 100-120.

. “The Status of Nomia mesillensis Cockerell (Hymenoptera: Halicti-
dae).” Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Washington, volume 76
(1974), pages 198-199.

Krombein, Karl V. “Supplement to a List of the Wasps of Gebel ‘Uweinat,
Libyan Desert (Hymenoptera: Aculeata).” Revue Zoologique Africaine, vol-
ume 88, number 2 (1974), pages 450-452.

Peyton, E. L. “Uranotaenia srilankensis, A New Species of the Subgenus
Pseudoficalbia from Sri Lanka (Diptera: Culicidae).” Mosquito Systematics,
volume 6 (1974), pages 222-227.

Reinert, John F. “Medical Entomology Studies—I. A New Interpretation of
the Subgenus Verrallina of the Genus Aedes (Diptera: Culicidae).” Con-
tributions of the American Entomological Institute, volume II, number 1
(1974), pages 1-249.

Sirivanakarn, Sunthorn. “Redescription of Culex (Culex) bihamatus Edwards
with a Discussion of its Affinity.” Mosquito Systematics, volume 6 (1974),
pages 259-262.

. “The Systematics of Culex vishnui Complex in Southeast Asia with

the Diagnosis of Three Common Species (Diptera: Culicidae).’”” Mosquito

Systematics, volume 7 (1975), pages 69-85.

384 / Smithsonian Year 1975
Spangler, Paul J. “A Description of the Larva of Hydrobiomorpha casta
(Coleoptera: Hydrophilidae).” Journal of the Washington Academy of
Sciences, volume 63, number 4 (1974), pages 160-164.

Ward, Ronald A. “African Trypanosomiasis.” In Medical Entomology, edited
by Vernon J. Tipton, pages 201-214. Entomological Society of American and
Brigham Young University, 1974.

. [Review] Insects and Disease, by Keith R. Snow, 1974. American So-

ciety for Microbiology News, volume 41 (1975), page 252.

[Review] Man Against Tsetse. Struggle for Africa, by John J.

McKelvey, Jr., 1973. Bulletin of the Entomological Society of America, vol-

ume 20 (1974), page 208.

Department of Invertebrate Zoology

Barnard, J. L. “Evolutionary Patterns in Gammaridean Amphipoda.” Crusta-
ceana, volume 27 (1974), pages 137-146.

“Identification of Gammaridean Amphipods.” In Light’s Manual:
Intertidal Invertebrates of the Central California Coast, pages 314-352.
Berkeley: University of California Press, 1975.

Bayer, Frederick M. “A New Species of Trichogorgia and Records of Two
Other Octocorals New to the Palau Islands.” Micronesica, volume 10,
number 2 (1974), pages 257-271, 3 plates.

Bowman, T. E. “The California Freshwater Isopod, Asellus tomalensis, Re-
discovered and Compared with Asellus occidentalis. Hydrobiologia, volume
44, number 4 (1974), pages 431-441.

. “A New Genus and Species of Troglobitic Cirolanid Isopod from San
Luis Potosi, Mexico.” Occasional Papers, The Museum, Texas Tech Uni-
versity, volume 27 (1975), pages 1-7.

Bowman, T. E., Peter W. Glynn, and Deborah M. Dexter. “Excirolana bra-
ziliensis, a Pan-American Sand Beach Isopod: Taxonomic Status, Zonation
and Distribution.” Journal of Zoology, London, volume 175 (1975), pages
509-521.

Bowman, T. E., and Charlotte Holmquist. “Asellus (Asellus) alaskensis, n. sp.,
the First Alaskan Asellus, with Remarks on its Asian Affinities (Crustacea:
Isopoda: Asellidae).” Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington,
volume 88, number 7 (1975), pages 59-72.

Bowman, T. E., and Helmut Kiihne. “Cymodetta gambosa, a New Sphaeromatid
Isopod (Crustacea) from Australia, with Notes on its Mating Behavior.”
Records of the Australian Museum, volume 29, number 9 (1974), pages
235-244, plate 8.

Bowman, T. E., and George A. Schultz. “The Isopod Crustacea Genus Mun-
nogonium George and Stromberg, 1968 (Munnidae, Asellota).” Proceedings
of the Biological Séciety of Washington, volume 87, number 25 (1974), pages
265-272.

Bowman, T. E., Austin B. Williams, and David M. Damkaer. “Distribution,
Variation and Supplemental Description of the Opossum Shrimp, Neo-
mysis americana (Crustacea: Mysidacea).” Fishery Bulletin, volume 72,
number 3 (1974), pages 835-842.

Chace, Fenner A., Jr. “Cave Shrimps (Decapoda: Caridea) from the Do-
minican Republic.” Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington,
volume 88, number 4 (1975), pages 29-44, 7 figures.

Child, C. A. “Hedgpethius tridentatus, a New Genus and New Species, and
Other Pycnogonida from Key West, Florida, U.S.A.” Proceedings of the
Biological Society of Washington, volume 87, number 43 (31 December
1974), pages 493-500.

. “Pycnogonida of Western Australia.” Smithsonian Contributions to

Zoology, 190 (1975), pages 1-29, 11 figures.

Appendix 7. Publications of the Staff / 385
Cressey, R. F. A New Family of Parasitic Copepods (Cyclopoida: Shiinoidea).”
Crustaceana, volume 28, number 2 (1975), pages 211-219, 22 figures.

. “A Redistribution of Hermilius pyriventris Heller with the First De-
scription of the Male.” Proceedings of the Biological Society of Wash-
ington, volume 87, number 22 (1974), pages 235-244.

Harshbarger, J. C., and Dawe, C. J. “Neoplasms in Feral Fishes: Their Sig-
nificance to Cancer Research.” Chapter 35 in The Pathology of Fishes,
edited by W. E. Ribelin and G. Migaki, pages 871-894. Madison: The Uni-
versity of Wisconsin Press, 1975.

. “Radiation, Neoplasms, Carcinogenic Chemicals, and Insects.” Chap-

ter 8 in Insect Diseases, edited by G. E. Cantwell, pages 377-416. New

York: Marcel Dekker, Inc., 1974.

. “Integumentary Papillomas and Carcinomas in Fish. Symposium No.

43: Environmental Carcinogens in Feral Aquatic Animals.” In Abstracts:

XIth International Cancer Congress, Florence, [Italy], 20-26 October 1974,

volume 1, pages 218-219. Milan: Casa Editrice Ambrosiana, 1974.

. “The Study of Invertebrate and Poikilothermic Vertebrate Neoplasms
by the Registry of Tumors in Lower Animals.” Bulletin of the Society of
Pharmacology and Environmental Pathology, volume 2, number 3 (1974),
pages 10-14.

Hart, C. W., Jr. The Ostracod Family Entocytheridae. The Academy of Nat-
ural Sciences of Philadelphia, Monograph 18. 1974, 239 pages, 49 text
figures, 62 plates.

. Ostracoda: Podocopa: Entocytheridae.” Crustaceorum Catalogus (Den

Haag). 1975, part 4, pages 1-64.

. “Surface Water Pollution Surveys.” In Environmental Engineers Hand-
book, edited by Bela G. Liptak, volume 1, pages 244-253. Philadelphia:
Chilton Co., 1974.

Hart, C. W., and Samuel L. H. Fuller, editors. Pollution Ecology of Freshwater
Invertebrates. New York: Academic Press, Inc., 1974, 389 pages.

Hobbs, Horton H., Jr. “A Checklist of the North and Middle American Cray-
fishes (Decapoda: Astacidae and Cambaridae).” Smithsonian Contributions
to Zoology, 166 (1974). 161 pages, 294 figures.

. “Crayfishes (Decapoda: Astacidae).” In Pollution Ecology of Fresh-

water Invertebrates, by C. W. Hart, Jr., and S. L. H. Fuller, pages 195-214.

New York: Academic Press, 1974.

. “New Entocytherid Ostracods from Tennessee with a Key to the
Species of the Genus Ascetocythere.” Proceedings of the Biological Society
of Washington, volume 88, number 2 (1975), pages 5-20, 2 figures.

Hope, W. Duane. “Nematoda.” In Reproduction of Marine Invertebrates, by
A. C. Giese and J. S. Pearse, volume 1, pages 391-469. New York: Aca-
demic Press Inc., pages 391-469.

. “Deontostoma timmerchioi n. sp., a New Marine Numatode (Lepto-
somatidae) from Antarctica, with a Note on the Structure and Possible
Function of the Ventromedian Supplement.” Transactions of the American
Microscopical Society, volume 93, number 3 (1974), pages 314-324.

Jones, M. L. “On the Caobangiidae, a New Family of the Polychaeta, with a
Redescription of Caobangia billeti Giard.”” Smithsonian Contributions to
Zoology, Number 175 (1974), 55 pages, 25 figures, 11 plates.

. “Brandtika asiatica New Genus, New Species, from Southeastern Asia

and a Redescription of Monroika africana (Monro) (Polychaeta: Sabellidae).”

Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington, volume 87 (1974),

pages 217-230, 4 figures.

. “Gatun Lake as a Freshwater Barrier in the Panama Canal.” [Ab-

stract]. Bulletin of the American Malacological Union for 1973 (1974),

page 46.

386 / Smithsonian Year 1975
Kenk, R. “Index of the Genera and Species or the Freshwater Triclads (Tur-
bellaria) of the World.” Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology, No. 183
(1975), 80 pages.

. “Phagocata cornuta Shishkov, 1903 (Platyhelminthes: Turbellaria):

Request for Suppression under the Plenary Powers Z.N.(S.) 2055.” Bulletin

of Zoological Nomenclature, volume 31, number 1 (1974), pages 62-63.

. “Flatworms (Platyhelminthes: Tricladida).” In Pollution Ecology of
Freshwater Invertebrates, edited by C. W. Hart and Samuel L. H. Fuller,
pages 67-80. New York and London: Academic Press, 1974.

Kornicker, Louis S. “Ostracoda (Myodocopina) of Cape Cod Bay, Massachu-
setts.” Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology, Number 173 (1974), 20 pages,
11 figures.

. “Revision of the Cypridinacea of the Gulf of Naples (Ostracoda).”

Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology, Number 178 (1974), 64 pages, 26

figures.

. “Spread of Ostracodes to Exotic Environs on Transplanted Oysters.”
In Biology and Paleobiology of Ostracoda, Paleontological Research Institu-
tion, pages 129-139, 3 figures. Ithaca, New York, 1975.

Kornicker, Louis S., and F. E. Caraion. ‘West African Myodocopid Ostracoda
(Cylindroleberididae).” Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology, Number 179
(1974), 78 pages, 43 figures.

Muzik, Katherine M. and Frederick M. Bayer. “Rediscovery of Biological
Treasures.” Sea Frontiers, volume 21, number 2 (1975), pages 110-120.

Pawson, David L. “Echinoderms.” Encyclopaedia Britannica, fifteenth edition.
1974, volume 6, pages 178-186.

Perez Farfante, Isabel. “Range Extension of Penaeus (Litopenaeus) occidentalis
Streets, 1871 (Decapoda: Penaeidae) into the Golfo de Tehuantepec.” Crus-
taceana, volume 27, number 3 (1974), pages 316-319, 1 figure.

Rehder, H. A. “Marine Biological Research in Southeastern Polynesia. Na-
tional Geographic Society Research Reports, 1967 Projects, (1974), pages
243-254, 5 figures.

. “Comment on the Request for the Designation of a Type-Species of
Tutufa Jousseaume, 1881. Z.N.(S.) 2021.” Bulletin of Zoological Nomencla-
ture, volume 31, number 1 (1974), pages 11-12.

Rehder, H. A., and J. E. Randall. “Ducie Atoll: Its History, Physiography and
Biota.” Atoll Research Bulletin, No. 183 (1975), 40 pages, 29 figures.

Rice, M. “Gametogenesis in Three Species of Sipuncula: Phascolosoma agas-
sizii, Golfingia pugettensis, and Themiste pyroides.” La Cellule, volume 70,
numbers 2 and 3 (1974), pages 295-313, 7 plates.

. “Sipuncula.” In Reproduction in Marine Invertebrates, edited by

Giese and Pearse, volume 2. Academic Press, 1975.

. “Unsegmented Coelomate Worms: Sipuncula, Echiura, Priapula.” In
Light’s Manual of Intertidal Invertebrates of the Coast of California, edited
by R. I. Smith, revised edition. University of California Press: 1975.

Roper, C. F. E. “The Shell in Cephalopod Phylogeny.” [Abstract] Bulletin of
the American Malacological Union, vol. 40 (1975), pages 71-72.

Rosewater, J. “An Annotated List of the Marine Mollusks of Ascension Is-
land, South Atlantic Ocean.” Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology, 189
(1975), 41 pages, 24 figures.

. 1975. “Mollusks of Gatun Locks, Panama Canal.” Bulletin of the
American Malacological Union for 1974 (1975), pages 42-43.

Ruetzler, Klaus. “The Burrowing Sponges of Bermuda.” Smithsonian Con-
tributions to Zoology, 165 (1974), 32 pages, 26 figures.

. “The Role of Burrowing Sponges in Bioerosion.” Oecologia (Berlin),
volume 19 (1975), pages 203-216.

Sohn, I. G. and L. S. Kornicker. “Variation in Predation Behavior of Ostra-

Appendix 7. Publications of the Staff / 387
code Species on Schistosomiasis Vector Snails.” In Biology and Paleobiology
of Ostracoda, Paleontological Research Institution. Ithaca, New York (1975),
pages 217-223, 2 figures.

Villalobos, Alejandro and Horton H. Hobbs, Jr. “Three New Crustaceans from
La Media Luna, San Luis Potosi, Mexico.” Smithsonian Contributions to
Zoology, 174 (1974), 18 pages, 8 figures.

Williams, Austin B. ““A New Species of Hypsophrys [Decapoda: Homolidae]
from the Straits of Florida with Notes on Related Crabs.” Proceedings of
The Biological Society of Washington, volume 87, number 42 (1974), pages
485-492, 12 figures.

. “The Swimming Crabs of the Genus Callinectes [Decapoda: Portuni-

dae].” Fishery Bulletin, volume 72, number 3 (1974), pages 685-798, 27

figures.

. “Two New Axiids [Crustacea: Decapoda: Thalassinidea: Calocaris]
from North Carolina and the Straits of Florida.” Proceedings of the Bio-
logical Society of Washington, volume 87, number 39 (1974), pages 451-464,
18 figures.

Williams, Austin B., T. E. Bowman and D. M. Damkaer. “Distribution, Varia-
tion, and Supplemental Description of the Opossum Shrimp, Neomysis
americana [Crustacea: Mysidacea].” Fishery Bulletin, volume 72, number 3
(1974), pages 835-842, 5 figures.

Department of Mineral Sciences

Appleman, D. E. “Sedimentary Carbonate Minerals,” [Review], Bulletin of
American Association of Petroleum Geologists, volume 59 (1975), pages
728-729.

Dunn, P. J. “Chromian Spinel Inclusions in American Peridots,” Zeitschrift
fiir Gemmologische Gesellschaft, volume 23, number 4 (1974), pages 304—
307.

. “Elbaite from Newry, Maine,” The Mineralogical Record, volume 6,

number 1 (1975), pages 22-25.

. “Emeralds in the Smithsonian,

number 10 (1975), pages 1572-1575.

. “Gem Spodumene and Achroite Tourmaline from Afghanistan,” The

Journal of Gemmology, volume 14, number 4 (1974), pages 170-174.

. “Guest Editorial: On Guest Speakers and Courtesy,” The Mineralogi-

cal Record, volume 5, number 3 (1974), page 102.

. “Inclusions in Beryllonite from Stoneham, Maine,” The Journal of

Gemmology, volume 14, number 5 (1975), pages 208-212.

. “Inclusions of Albite and Phenakite in Gem Topaz from the Tarryall

Mountains, Colorado,” Gems and Gemology, volume 14, number 11 (1974),

pages 337-340.

. “Personality Sketch: C. Wroe Wolfe,” The Mineralogical Record,

volume 6, number 1, page 13.

. “Personality Sketch: John Stewart,” Rocks and Minerals, April 1975.

. “Wroewolfeite, a New Copper Sulfate Hydroxide Hydrate,” Minera-
logical Magazine, volume 40 (1975), pages 1-5.

Fredriksson, Kurt, A. Dube, E. Jarosewich, J. Nelen and A. Noonan. “The
Pulsora Anomaly: A Case Against Metamorphic Equilibration in Chodrites.”
Smithsonian Contributions to Earth Sciences, no. 14 (1975), pages 44-53.

Fredriksson, Kurt, J. Nelen and A. Noonan. “Al-Ca Rich Chodrules in the
Coolidge Chondrite” [Abstract], Meteoritics, volume 9 (1974), pages 384—
385.

Fredriksson, Kurt, A. Noonan, and J. Nelen. “The Bhola Stone—A True
Polymict Breccia” [Abstract], Meteoritics, volume 9 (1974), pages 338-339.

uy

The Lapidary Journal, volume 28,

388 / Smithsonian Year 1975
Fudali, Robert F. and A. Noonan. “Gobabeb, a New Chondrite from SW
Africa: The Coexistence of Equilibrated Silicates and Unequilibrated
Spinels,” Meteoritics, volume 10, number 1 (1975), pages 31-39.

Jarosewich, E., R. H. Gibbs, Jr., and H. L. Windom. “Heavy Metal Concentra-
tion in Museum Fish Specimens: Effect on Preservatives and Time,” Science,
volume 160 (1974), pages 457-477.

Jarosewich, E., and G. R. Levi-Donati. “The Mills New Mexico Chondrite—A
New Find,” Meteoritics, number 2 (1974), pages 145-156.

Mason, Brian H. “Aluminum-Titanium-Rich Pyroxenes, with Special Reference
to the Allende Meteorite,” American Mineralogist, volume 59 (1974), pages
1198-1202.

. “Compositional Limits of Wollastonite and Bustamite,

Mineralogist, volume 60 (1975), pages 209-212.

. “Elements, Geochemical Distribution of.” Encyclopedia Britannica,

fifteenth edition. 1974, volume 6, pages 700-713.

. “Notes on Australian Meteorites,” Records of the Australian Museum,
volume 29 (1974), pages 169-186.

Mason, Brian H., and P. J. Dunn. “An Unusual Occurrence of Bobierrite at
Wodgina, Western Australia,” Mineralogical Record, volume 5 (1974), page
265.

Mason, Brian H., and E. P. Henderson. “Australian Meteorite Expedition,
1967,” National Geographic Society Research Reports, 1967 Projects (1974),
pages 158-159.

Mason, Brian H., S. Jacobson, J. A. Nelen, W. G. Melson, T. Simkin and G.
Thompson. ‘‘Regolith Compositions from the Apollo 17 Mission,” Proceed-
ings of the Fifth Lunar Science Conference (1974), volume 1, pages 879-
885.

Mason, Brian H., and P. M. Martin. “Major and Trace Elements in the Allende
Meteorite,” Nature, volume 249 (1974), pages 333-334.

Melson, W. G., et al. “Deep Sea Drilling Project: Leg 37—The Volcanic Layer,”
Geotimes, pages 16-18.

Moreland, G., R. Johnson and M. Goodway. “An Improved Technique for the
Presentation of Polished Metallurgical Sections,” Metallography, volume 8,
number 5 (1975).

Noonan, A. F. “The Clovis (no. 1), New Mexico, Meteorite and Ca, Al and
Ti-Rich Inclusions in Ordinary Chondrites,” Meteoritics, volume 10 (1974),
pages 51-60.

. “Glass Particles and Shock Features in the Bununu Howardite,”
Meteoritics, volume 9 (1974), pages 233-242.

Noonan, A. F., R. L. Methot, E. Jarosewich, and A. A. DeGasparis. “The Isna
Meteorite—A C3 Find From Egypt,” Meteoritics, volume 9 (1974), pages
381—382.

Noonan, A. F., R. S. Rajan and A. A. Chodos. “Microprobe Analyses of
Glassy Particles from Howardites,” Meteoritics, volume 9 (1974), pages
385-386.

Simkin, T., and J. Filson. “An Application of a Stochastic Model to a Vol-
canic Earthquake Swarm,” Bulletin and Seismological Record of America,
volume 65 (1975), pages 351-358.

Simkin, T., P. T. Taylor, D. J. Stanley, and W. Jahn, “Gilliss Seamount: De-
tailed Bathymetry and Modification by Bottom Currents,” Marine Geology,
volume 18 (1975).

Switzer, G. S. “Memorial to Victor Ben Meen,
America, 3 pages. 1974.

. “Some Famous Jewels and their History,” In The Great Book of

Jewels, by Ernst A. and Jean Heiniger, pages 281-307. New York Graphic

Society of Boston, 1974.

um

American

um”

The Geological Society of

Appendix 7. Publications of the Staff / 389
. “Levyne-Offretite Intergrowths from Basalt near Beech Creek, Grant
County, Oregon,” American Mineralogist, volume 59 (1974), pages 837-842.

White, John C., Jr. “Collecting Minerals,” Encyclopedia of Earth Science,
Dowden.

. “Encyclopedia of Minerals” [Book Review] Mineralogical Record.

. “Gemstone and Mineral Data Book” [Review] American Scientist.

editor and publishor, Mineralogical Record (bimonthly record).

, editor and publishor. “Glossary of Mineral Species, 1975.”

Department of Paleobiology

Adey, W. H., Tomiataro Masaki, and Hidetsuga Akiota. “Ezo epiyessoense,
a New Parasitic Genus and Species of Corallinaceae.” Phycologia, volume
13 (1974), pages 329-344.

Banks, H. P., S. Leclercq, and F. M. Huebner. “Anatomy and Morphology of
Psilophyton dawsonii, sp. n., from the Late Lower Devonian of Quebec
(Gaspe), and Ontario, Canada.” Paleontographica Americana, number 48
(1975), pages 77-127.

Barnard, L. A., I. G. Macintyre, and J. W. Pierce. “Tropical Coral Reefs: Non-
Carbonate Detrital Indicator.” Nature, volume 252, number 5480 (1974),
pages 219-220.

Benson, R. H. “Preliminary Report on the Ostracodes of Leg 24: Deep Sea
Drilling Project Initial Reports.” Initial Reports of the Deep Sea Drilling
Project, volume 24 (1974), pages 1037-1043.

. “The Origin of the Psychrosphere as Recorded in Changes of Deep-

Sea Ostracode Assemblages.” Lethaia, volume 8, number 1 (1975), pages

69-83.

. “Morphologic Stability in Ostracoda.” In Biology and Paleobiology of
Ostracoda, Symposium University of Delaware, 1972, edited by F. M. Swain,
687 pages. Bulletins of American Paleontology, volume 65, number 282
(1975).

Benson, R. H., and Guilliano Ruggieri. “The End of the Miocene, a Time of
Crisis in Tethys-Mediterranean History.” Annals of the Geological Survey
of Egypt, volume 4 (1974), pages 237-250.

Boardman, R. S. “Taxonomic Characters for Phylogenetic Classification of
Cyclostane Bryozoa.” In Bryozoa—1975: Proceedings of the Third Inter-
national Bryozoology Association Conference, Lyon, France, edited by L.
David. Document Laboratorie Géologique, Faculté des Science, 1975.

Buzas, M. A. “Vertical Distribution of Ammobaculites in the Rhode River,
Maryland.” Journal of Foraminiferal Research, volume 4, number 3 (1974),
pages 144-147.

Cheetham, A. H. “Taxonomic Significance of Autozooid Size and Shape in
Some Early Multiserial Cheilostomes from the Gulf Coast of the United
States.” In Bryozoa—1975: Proceedings of the Third International Bryo-
zoology Association Conference, Lyon, France, edited by L. David, 12 pages,
3 plates. Document Laboratorie Géologique, Faculté des Science, 1975.

Cifelli, R. “Planktonic Foraminifera from the Mediterranean and Adjacent
Atlantic Waters (Cruise 49 of the Atlantis II, 1969).” Journal of Foramini-
feral Research, volume 4, number 4 (1974), pages 171-183.

Cifelli, R., and R. K. Smith. “Distributional Patterns of Planktonic Foramini-
fera in the Western North Atlantic.” Journal of Foraminiferal Research,
volume 4, number 3 (1974), pages 112-125.

Colquhoun, D. J., J. W. Pierce, and D. Comer. ‘Nature of Estuarian Deposits,
Atlantic Coast of North America.” In Proceedings of the Symposium on
International Relations of Estuarine and Continental Shelf Sedimentation,
pages 247-252. Mémoires de I’Institut de Géologie du Bassin d’ Aquitaine,
number 7 (1974).

390 / Smithsonian Year 1975
Dahl, A. L., I. G. Macintyre, and A. Antonius. “A Comparative Survey of
Coral Reef Research Sites.” Atoll Research Bulletin, volume 172 (1974),
pages 37-120.

Got, H., and D. J. Stanley. “Sedimentation in Two Catalonian Canyons,
Northwestern Mediterranean.” Marine Geology, volume 16, number 10
(1974), pages M91—M100.

Grant, R. E. “Methods and Conclusions in Functional Analysis: A Reply.”
Lethaia, volume 8, number 1 (1975), pages 31-33.

Hickey, L. J. “Classification de la Arquitectura de las Hojas de Dicotiladoneas.”
Boletin de la Sociedad Argentina de Botanica, volume 16 (1974), pages 1-26.

. “Earth Science in the New Exhibits Program at the Smithsonian Insti-

tution.” [Abstract] Geological Society of America Abstracts with Programs,

volume 7, number 6 (1975), p. 782.

. “Foliar Venation.” In Vascular Plant Systematics, edited by A. E. Rad-
ford et al., pages 192-198. New York: Harper and Row, 1974.

Hotton, Nicholas, III. “A New Dicynodont (Reptilia, Therapsida) from Cyno-
gnathus Zone Deposits of South Africa.” Annals of the South African
Museum, volume 64 (1974), pages 157-165, 2 plates.

Huang, T. C., and D. J. Stanley. “Current Reversal at 10,000 Years B. P. at
the Strait of Gibraltar—A Discussion.” Marine Geology, volume 17, number
1 (1974), pages M1—M7.

Kauffman, E. G. “Cretaceous Assemblages, Communities, and Associations;
Western Interior United States and Caribbean Islands.” In Principles of
Benthic Community Analysis: Sedimenta IV, edited by A. M. Ziegler et al.,
pages 12.1-12.27. University of Miami Comparative Sedimentology Labora-
tories, 1974.

. “Evolution of Western Interior Cretaceous Paleocommunities and

Faunal Associations.” [Abstract] American Association of Petroleum

Geologists and Society of Economic Paleontologists and Mineralogists

(Rocky Mountain Section) Abstracts with Programs, 1975, page 18.

. “A New Look at Biostratigraphy.” [Abstract] Proceedings of the
Western Interuniversities Geological Conference, 1974, pages 1-3.

Kauffman, E. G., and B. Runnegar. “Atomodesma (Bivalvia), and Permian
Species of the United States.” Journal of Paleontology, volume 49, number
1 (1974), pages 23-51.

Kauffman, E. G., and R. W. Scott. “Basic Concepts of Community and Paleo-
ecology.” [Abstract] Geological Society of American Abstracts with Pro-
grams, volume 7, number 6 (1974), pages 815-816.

Kelling, G., H. Sheng, and D. J. Stanley. ““Mineralogic Composition of Sand-
Sized Sediment on the Outer Margin off the Mid-Atlantic States: Assess-
ment of the Influence on the Ancestral Hudson and Other Fluvial Systems.”
Geological Society of America Bulletin, volume 86, number 6 (1975), pages
853-862.

Kelling, G., and D. J. Stanley. “Sedimentation in Canyon, Slope, and Base-of-
Slope Environments.” In The New Concepts of Continental Margin Sedi-
mentation, II, edited by D. J. Stanley and D. P. J. Swift, pages 741-855.
Washington, D. C.: American Geological Institute, 1974.

Macintyre, I. G. Report of the Harbor Branch Coral-Reef Workshop. Link
Port, Florida, 1974, 101 pages.

. “A Diver-Operated Drill for Coring Submerged Substrates.” Atoll

Research Bulletin, volume 185 (1974), pages 21-26.

. “Some Aspects of Recent Coral-Reef Geological Research.” In Recent
Advances in Carbonate Studies, edited by L. C. Gerhard and H. G. Multer,
50 pages. Special Publication 6, West Indies Laboratory. St. Croix, U. S.
Virgin Islands, 1974.

Macintyre, I. G., and P. W. Glynn. “Internal Structure and Development

Appendix 7. Publications of the Staff / 391
Stages of a Modern Caribbean Fringe Reef, Galeta Point, Panama.” In
Proceedings of the 7th Caribbean Geological Conference, Guadeloupe,
July 1-5, 1974.

Macintyre, I. G., and S. V. Smith. “X-radiographic Studies of Skeletal De-
velopment in Coral Colonies.” In Proceedings of the Second International
Coral Reef Symposium, Great Barrier Reef Committee, pages 277-287.
Brisbane, 1974.

Macintyre, I. G., S. V. Smith, and J. C. Zieman. “Carbon Flux Through a
Coral Reef Ecosystem: A Conceptual Model.” Journal of Geology, volume
82 (1974), pages 161-171.

Pierce, J. W., D. J. Colquhoun, and D. D. Nelson. “Suspended Sediment
Effluent from Charleston Harbor.” In Proceedings of the Symposium on
International Relations of Estuarine and Continental Shelf Sedimentation,
edited by G. P. Allen, pages 95-102. Mémoires de l'Institut de Géologie du
Bassin d’ Aquitaine, number 7 (1974), pages 95-102.

Pierce, J. W., J. B. Southard, and D. J. Stanley. “Shelf Break Processes and
Suspended Sediment Transport on the Outer Continental Margin.” In The
New Concepts of Continental Margin Sedimentation, II, edited by D. J.
Stanley, and D. P. J. Swift, pages 639-740. Washington, D. C.: American
Geological Institute, 1974.

Roberts, W. P., and J. W. Pierce. “Sediment Yield in the Patuxent River (Md.)
Undergoing Urbanization, 1968-1969.” Sedimentary Geology, volume 12
(1974), pages 179-197.

Rupke, N. A., and D. J. Stanley. “Distinctive Properties of Turbiditic and
Hemipelagic Mud Layers in the Algéro-Balearic, Western Mediterranean.”
Smithsonian Contributions to Earth Science, number 13 (1975), 40 pages.

Rupke, N. A., D. J. Stanley, and R. Stuckenrath. “Late Quaternary Rates of
Abyssal Mud Deposition in the Western Mediterranean Sea.” Marine
Geology, volume 17, number 2 (1974), pages M9-M16.

So, C. L., J. W. Pierce, and F. R. Siegel. “Sand Waves in the Gulf of San
Matias, Argentina.” Geografiska Annaler, volume 56, series A (1974), pages
227-235.

Sohl, N. F., E. G. Kauffman, and A. G. Coates. ‘“Macrofossil Biostratigraphy
and Correlation of the Jamaican and Puerto Rican Cretaceous Succession.”
[Abstract] 7th Carribbean Geological Conference, Recueil des Resumes de
Communications, 1974, p. 64.

Stanley, D. J. “Suspended Sediment at the Shelf-Break and on the Slope,
Wilmington Canyon off Delaware Bay.” National Geographic Society Re-
search Reports, 1967 Projects (1974), pages 271-275.

Stanley, D. J., G. Kelling, J. A. Vera, and H. Sheng. “Sands in the Alboran
Sea: A Model of Input in a Deep Marine Basin.” Smithsonian Contributions
to Earth Science, number 15 (1975), 51 pages, 23 figures, 8 tables.

Stanley, D. J., F. W. Mc Coy, and L. Diester-Haass. “Balearic Abyssal Plain:
An Example of Modern Basin Plain Deformation by Salt Tectonism.”
Marine Geology, volume 17, number 3 (1974), pages 183-200.

Urbanek, Adam, and K. M. Towe. “Ultrastructural Studies on Graptolites, 2:
The Periderm and its Derivatives in the Graptoloidea.” Smithsonian Con-
tributions to Paleobiology, number 22 (1975), 24 pages, 24 plates.

Department of Vertebrate Zoology

Ali, Salim, and S. Dillon Ripley. “Flowerpeckers to Buntings.” Handbook of
the Birds of India and Pakistan, volume 10. Bombay, London & New York:
Oxford University Press, 1974.

Allen, Gerald R., and Victor G. Springer. “Amphiprion calliops Schultz, a
Junior Synonym of the Red Saddleback Anemonefish Amphiprion ephippium

392 / Smithsonian Year 1975
(Bloch).” Tropical Fish Hobbyist, volume 23 (April 1975), pages 53-57, 4
figures, 1 table.

Ash, John S. “The Boran Cisticola in Ethiopia.” Bulletin of the British Orni-
thologists’ Club, volume 94, number 1 (20 March 1974), pages 24-26.

Ash, John S., and J. F. Monk. “K. D. Smith.” [Obituary]. The Ibis, volume 116,
number 2 (April 1974), pages 235-236.

Benson, G. W., H. H. Beamish, C. Jouanin, J. Salvan, and G. E. Watson. “The
Birds of the Iles Glorieuses.” Atoll Research Bulletin, number 176 (15 Jan-
uary 1975), pages 1-34.

Delacour, Jean, and S. Dillon Ripley. “Description of a New Subspecies of
White-fronted Goose Anser albifrons.” American Museum Novitates,
number 2565 (1975), 4 pages.

Divoky, George J., James C. Bartonek, and George E. Watson. “The Breeding
of the Black Guillemot in Northern Alaska.” The Condor, volume 76 (25
September 1974), pages 339-343.

Fink, William L., and Stanley H. Weitzman. “The So-called Cheirodontin
Fishes of Central America with Descriptions of Two New Species (Pisces:
Characidae).” Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology, number 172 (4 Sep-
tember 1974), 46 pages, 26 figures, 15 tables.

Heyer, W. Ronald, and M. Judith Diment. “The Karyotype of Vanzolinius
discodactylus and Comments on Usefulness of Karyotypes in Determining
Relationships in the Leptodactylus-complex (Amphibia, Leptodactylidae).”
Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington, volume 87, number 29
(22 October 1974), 10 pages, 3 figures, 1 table.

Kaiser, Makram N., Harry Hoogstraal, and George E. Watson. “Ticks (Ixodio-
dea) on Migrating Birds in Cyprus, Fall 1967 and Spring 1968, and Epidemi-
ological Considerations.” Bulletin of Entomological Research, volume 64,
number 1 (1974), pages 97-110.

Kemp, Graham E., Ottis R. Causey, Henry W. Setzer, and Dorothy L. Moore.
“Isolation of Viruses from Wild Mammals in West Africa, 1966-1970.”
Journal of Wildlife Diseases, volume 10 (July 1974), pages 279-293.

Lachner, Ernest A., and James F. McKinney. “Barbuligobius boehlkei, a New
Indo-Pacific Genus and Species of Gobiidae (Pisces), with Notes on the
Genera Callogobius and Pipidonia.” Copeia, number 4 (31 December 1974),
11 pages, 4 figures, 2 tables.

Ma, N. S. F., T. C. Jones, R. W. Thorington, and R. W. Cooper. ‘““Chromosome
Banding Patterns in Squirrel Monkeys.” Journal of Medical Primatology,
volume 3 (1974), pages 120-137.

Mead, J. G., and R. S. Payne. ““A Specimen of the Tasman Beaked Whale,
Tasmacetus shepherdi, from Argentina.” Journal of Mammalogy, volume
56, number 1 (1975), pages 213-218.

Monath, Thomas P., V. F. Newhouse, Graham E. Kemp, Henry W. Setzer and
Anthony Cacciapuoti. “Lassa Virus Isolation from Mastomys natalensis
Rodents During an Epidemic in Sierra Leone.” Science, volume 185, number
4147 (19 July 1974), pages 263-265.

Olson, Storrs L. “Paleornithology of St. Helena Island, South Atlantic Ocean.”
Smithsonian Contributions to Paleobiology, number 23 (June 1975), 49
pages.

. “An Evaluation of the Supposed Anhinga of Mauritius.” Auk, volume

92 (30 April 1975), pages 374-376.

. “The Fossil Rails of C. W. De Vis, Being Mainly an Extinct Form of

eben mortierii from Queensland.” Emu, volume 75 (April 1975), pages

49-54.

. “Ichthyornis in the Cretaceous of Alabama.” Wilson Bulletin, volume

87 (26 March 1975), pages 103-105.

. “A New Species of Nesotrochis from Hispaniola, with Notes on

Appendix 7. Publications of the Staff / 393
Other Fossil Rails from the West Indies (Aves: Rallidae).” Proceedings
of the Biological Society of Washington, volume 87 (31 December 1974),
pages 439-450.

. “Remarks on the Generic Characters of Bulweria.” Ibis, volume 117

(January 1975), pages 111-113.

. “The South Pacific Gallinules of the Genus Pareudiastes.” Wilson

Bulletin, volume 87 (26 March 1975), pages 1-5, color frontispiece.

. “Telecrex Restudied: A Small Eocene Guineafowl.” Wilson Bulletin,

volume 86 (30 September 1974), pages 246-250.

. [Review] Ascension—The Story of a South Atlantic Island, by D.

Hart-Davis. Frontiers, volume 38 (summer 1974), page 29.

. [Review] Systematics and Evolution of the Gruiformes (Class Aves).
3. Phylogeny of the Suborder Grues, by J. Cracraft. Auk, volume 91 (9
October 1974), pages 862-865.

Orejas-Miranda, Braulio R., and George R. Zug. “A New Tricolor Lepto-
typhlops (Reptilia: Serpentes) from Peru.” Proceedings of the Biological
Society of Washington, volume 87 (1974), pages 167-174.

Ripley, S. Dillon. “Ducks on Your Pond,” In Raising Wild Ducks, edited by
D. O. Hyde, pages 23-25. New York: Dutton, 1974.

. “Endangered Waterfowl of the World,” In Raising Wild Ducks, edited

by D. O. Hyde, pages 288-297. New York: Dutton, 1974.

. [Review] Ecology and Biogeography in India. Science, volume 186

(1974), pages 916-917.

. [Review] The Fowles of Heauen or History of Birdes. Isis, volume 66,

number 1 (1975), pages 137-138.

. [Review] To Ride the Wind. Atlantic Naturalist, volume 29, number
3 (1974), pages 136-137.

Springer, Victor G., and Martin F. Gomon. “Revision of the Blenniid Fish
Genus Omobranchus with Descriptions of Three New Species and Notes on
Other Species of the Tribe Omobranchini.” Smithsonian Contributions to
Zoology, number 177 (2 April 1975), 135 pages, 52 figures, 12 tables.

Springer, Victor G., and John E. Randall. “Two New Species of the Labrid
Fish Genus Cirrhilabrus from the Red Sea.” Israel Journal of Zoology,
volume 23, number 1 (March 1975), pages 45-54, 6 figures, 2 tables.

Thorington, Richard W., Jr. “The Basic Problems: Introductory Remarks [to a
seminar on The Present Status of Primates and Methods for Conservation].”
In Proceedings from the Symposia of the Fifth Congress of the Interna-
tional Primatological Society, 1975, edited by S. Kondo, M. Kawai, A. Ehara,
and S. Kawamura.

. “Conclusions of the Primate Surveys in Colombia and Peru.” In

Primate Censusing in Peru and Colombia, pages 97-99. Pan American

Health Organization, 1975.

. “Report on Primate Conservation Group.” Laboratory Primate News-

letter, volume 13, number 4 (1974), pages 19-21.

. “The Relevance of Vegetational Diversity for Primate Conservation

in South America.” Proceedings from the Symposia of the Fifth Congress

of the International Primatological Society, 1975, edited by S. Kondo, M.

Kawai, A. Ehara, and S. Kawamura.

. “A Summary of Discussions on Primate Conservation.” In Proceed-
ings from the Symposia of the Fifth Congress of the International Primato-
logical Society, edited by S. Kondo, M. Kawai, A. Ehara, and S. Kawamura.

Watson, George E. “Addition to the Application Concerning the Suppression
of Diomedea leptorhyncha Coues, 1866.” Bulletin of Zoological Nomencla-
ture, volume 31 (July 1974), pages 8-9.

. “Charge to the Committee on the Scientific and Educational Use of

Wild Birds.” The Auk, volume 91, number 4 (9 October 1974), pages 347—

368.

394 / Smithsonian Year 1975
. “Observations on Lemche’s Comments on the Proposed Preservation
of Eudyptes sclateri Buller, 1888, and Eudyptes robustus Oliver 1953.”
Bulletin of Zoological Nomenclature, volume 31 (July 1974), page 64.

. “Proceedings of the Ninety-second Stated Meeting of the American

Ornithologists’ Union.” The Auk, volume 92, number 2 (30 April 1975),

pages 347-368.

. “World Check-lists, a Book Commentary.” Atlantic Naturalist, volume
30, number 1 (Spring 1975), pages 18-19.

Watson, George E. and George J. Divoky. ‘Marine Birds of the Western
Beaufort Sea.” In “The Coast and Shelf of the Beaufort Sea,” Proceedings
of a Symposium on Beaufort Sea Coast and Shelf Research, San Francisco,
California, January 7-9, 1974, pages 681-695. Arlington, Virginia: Arctic
Institute of North America, February 1975.

Weitzman, Stanley H. “Fish.” Encyclopaedia Britannica, fifteenth edition.
1974, volume 7, pages 330-345, 6 figures.

. “Osteology and Evolutionary Relationships of the Sternoptychidae,

with a New Classification of Stomiatoid Families.” Bulletin of the American

Museum of Natural History, volume 153, article 3 (26 July 1974), pages

327-478, 113 figures, 1 table.

. “Teleostei.” Encyclopedia Britannica, fifteenth edition. 1974, volume
18, pages 81-82.

Weitzman, Stanley H., and J. Stanley Cobb. “A Revision of the South Ameri-
can Fishes of the Genus Nannostomus Giinther (Family Lebiasinidae).”
Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology, number 186 (5 March 1975), 36
pages, 34 figures.

Wingate, David B. and George E. Watson. “First North Atlantic Record of
the White Tern.” The Auk, volume 91, number 3 (26 July 1974), pages
614-617.

Zug, George R. “Crocodilian Galloping: an Unique Gait for Reptiles.” Copeia,
number 2 (1974), pages 550-52.

“Locomotion.” Encyclopaedia Britannica, fifteenth edition. 1974,
volume 11, pages 15-24.

Zusi, R. L. “An Interpretation of Skull Structure in Penguins.” In The Biology
of Penguins, edited by Bernard Stonehouse, pages 59-84. London: The
Macmillan Press, Ltd., 1975.

. “Charadriiformes.” Encyclopaedia Britannica, fifteenth edition. 1974,

volume 4, pages 33-42.

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK
Office of Zoological Research

Buechner, H. K. “Implications of Social Behavior in the Management of
Uganda Kob.” In The Behaviour of Ungulates and Its Relation to Manage-
ment, edited by V. Geist and F. Walther, pages 853-870. IUCN Publications,
new series, number 24. 1974.

. [Review] Mountain Sheep, by V. Geist. Quarterly Review of Biology,
volume 49 (1974), pages 168-169.

Eisenburg, J. F. “Design and Administration of Zoological Research Programs.”
In Research in Zoos and Aquariums, pages 12-18. Washington, D. C.: ILAR
National Academy of Sciences, 1975.

. “The Function and Motivational Basis of Hystricomorph Vocaliza-
tions.” In The Biology of Hystricomorph Rodents, edited by I. W. Rolands
and B. Weir, pages 211-244. Symposium of Zoological Society of London,
No. 34. 1974.

Eisenberg, J. F. and G. M. McKay (Research Associate). “Comparison of
Ungulate Adaptations in the New World and Old World Tropical Forests

Appendix 7. Publications of the Staff / 395
with Special Reference to Ceylon and the Rainforests of Central America.”
In The Behaviour of Ungulates and Its Relation to Management, edited by
V. Geist and F. Walther, volume 2, pages 585-602. IUCN Publication No.
24. 1974.

Kleiman, D. G. “Management of Breeding Programs in Zoos.” In Research in
Zoos and Aquariums, pages 157-177. Washington, D. C.: ILAR National
Academy of Sciences, 1975.

. “Patterns of Behavior in Hystricomorph Rodents.” In The Biology of
Hysticomorph Rodents, edited by I. W. Rowlands and B. Weir, pages 171—
209. Symposium of Zoological Society of London, 34. 1974.

McKay, G. M. (Research Associate) and J. F. Eisenberg. “Movement Patterns
and Habitat Utilization of Ungulates in Ceylon.” In The Behaviour of
Ungulates and Its Relation to Management, edited by V. Geist and F.
Walther, volume 2, pages 708-721. IUCN Publication 24. 1974.

Montgomery, G. G. “Communication in Red Fox Dyads: A Computer Simula-
tion Study.” Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology, number 187 (1974),
pages 1-30.

Montgomery, G. G. and M. E. Sunquist. “Impact of Sloths on Neo-tropical
Forest Energy Flow and Nutrient Cycling.” In Tropical Ecological Systems:
Trends in Terrestrial and Aquatic Research, edited by Frank B. Golley and
Ernesto Medina, pages 69-111. Ecological Studies 11. New York: Springer-
Verlag, 1975.

Morton, E. S. “Ecological Sources of Selection on Avian Sounds.” American
Naturalist, volume 109 (1974), pages 17-34.

Wilson, S. C. “Juvenile Play of the Common Seal (Phoca vitulina vitulina)
with Comparative Notes on the Grey Seal (Halichoerus grypus).” Behavior,
volume 48 (1974), pages 37-60.

. “Mother-Young Interactions in the Common Seal (Phoca vitulina

vitulina).” Behavior, volume 48 (1974), pages 23-36.

OFFICE OF INTERNATIONAL PROGRAMS

Center for Short-Lived Phenomena

Citron, Robert A., and John R. Whitman, et al., editors Directory of EPA,
State, and Local Environmental Quality Monitoring and Assessment Activi-
ties. United States Environmental Protection Agency, December, 1974.

Feininger, Coman (Research Correspondent). “The La Gasca Debris Flow of
25 February 1975: A Geomorphologic Report.” Quito, Ecuador, April, 1975.

Maina, Shirley L. 1974 CSLP Pollution Review. Smithsonian Institution, 1975.

Maina, Shirley L., and David R. Squires, editors. CSLP 1974, Annual Report
and Review of Events. June 1975.

RADIATION BIOLOGY LABORATORY

Andrews, J. T., R. Stuckenrath, H. Nichols and G. H. Miller. “Radiocarbon
Dates and Pollen Analyses from the Baffin Island National Park.” Parks
Canada, volume 73-66 (1974), 41 pages.

Bender, M. E., and D. L. Correll. “The Rise of Wetlands as Nutrient Removal
Systems.” Chesapeake Research Consortium Publication No. 29 (1974),
12 pages. ¢

Correll, D. L., “Indirect Effects of Tropical Storm Agnes Upon the Rhode
River.” In Symposium on the Effects of Tropical Storm Agnes Upon the
Chesapeake Bay Estuarine System, College Park, Md., May 1974, pages
C47-58. Chesapeake Research Consortium Publication No. 34.

Gantt, Elisabeth, and Claudia A. Lipschultz. “Phycobilisomes of Porphyridium

396 / Smithsonian Year 1975
cruentum: Pigment Analysis.” Biochemistry, volume 13 (1974), pages 2960—
2966.

Gray, Brian H., and E. Gantt. “Spectral Properties of Phycobilisomes and
Phycobiliproteins from the Blue-Green Alga Nostoc sp.” Photochemistry
and Photobiology, volume 21 (1975), pages 121-128.

Harding, Roy W. “The Effect of Temperature on Photoinduced Carotenoid
Biosynthesis in Neurospora crassa.” Plant Physiology, volume 54 (1974),
pages 142-147.

Hayes, Rebecca Gettens, and William H. Klein. “Spectral Quality Influence
of Light During Development of Arabidopsis thaliana Plants in Regulating
Seed Germination.” Plant and Cell Physiology, volume 15 (1974), pages
643-653.

Klein, W. H., and B. Goldberg. Solar Radiation Measurements/1968-1973.
Smithsonian Institution Press, 1975, 76 pages.

Margulies, Maurice M., H. Lee Tiffany, and Allan Michaels, “Vectorial Dis-
charge of Nascent Polypeptides Attached to Chloroplast Thylakoid Mem-
branes.” Biochemical and Biophysical Research Communications, volume 64
(1975), pages 735-739.

Michaels, Allan, and Maurice M. Margulies. “Amino Acid Incorporation Into
Protein by Ribosomes Bound to Chloroplast Thylakoid Membranes: Forma-
tion of Discrete Products.” Biochimica et Biophysica Acta, volume 390 (1975),
pages 352-362.

Mitrakos, K., L. Price and H. Tzanni. “The Growth Pattern of the Flowering
Shoot of Urginea Maritima.” American Journal of Botany, volume 61 (1974),
pages 920-924.

Shropshire, W., Jr. “A Consortium Experiment in Graduate Training in Biol-
ogy: Phase I.” AIBS Education Review, volume 3, no. 3 (September 1974),
pages 1-4.

. “Phototropism—Introductory Lecture. Progress in Photobiology.” In

Proceedings of the VI International Congress on Photobiology, edited by

Giinther O. Schenck, pages 1-5. Frankfurt: Deutsche Gesellschaft fiir

Lichtforschung e.V., 1974.

“Unicellular-Plant Transducers.” In Interdisciplinary Aspects of
General Systems Theory, Proceedings of the 3rd Annual Meeting of the
Middle Atlantic Regional Division. Society for General Systems Research,
pages 50-57. 1975.

Suraqui, S., H. Tabor, W. H. Klein, and B. Goldberg. “Solar Radiation Changes
at Mt. St. Katherine After Forty Years.” Solar Energy, volume 16 (1974),
pages 155-158.

SMITHSONIAN ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY

Aaronson, M., J. H. Black, and C. F. McKee. “A Search for Molecular Hydro-
gen in Quasar Absorption Spectra.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters), volume
191 (1974), pages L53—L56.

Aaronson, M., C. F. McKee, and J. C. Weisheit. “The Identification of Absorp-
tion Redshift Systems in Quasar Spectra.” Astrophysical Journal, volume
198 (1975), pages 13-30.

Aksnes, K. “Short-Period and Long-Period Perturbations of a Spherical
Satellite due to Direct Solar Radiation.” [Abstract] Bulletin of the American
Astronomical Society, volume 7 (1975), page 341.

Aksnes, K., and F. A. Franklin. “Reduction Techniques and Some Results from
Occultations of Europa by Io.” [Abstract] Bulletin of the American
Astronomical Society, volume 6 (1974), page 382.

. “Mutual Phenomena of the Galilean Satellites in 1973. I. Total and

Near-Total Occultations of Europa by Io.” Astronomical Journal, volume 80

(1975), pages 56-63.

Appendix 7. Publications of the Staff / 397
Aksnes, K., and B. G. Marsden. “The Orbit of Jupiter XIII.” [Abstract] Bulle-
tin of the American Astronomical Society, volume 7 (1975), page 342.

Argyle, E., G. Baird, J. Grindlay, H. Helmken, and E. O’Mongain. “Search for
Correlations between Giant Radio-Pulses and 10!! eV Gamma-Rays from
NP 0532.” Il Nuovo Cimento, volume 24 (1974), pages 153-156.

Avrett, E. H. “Formation of the Solar EUV Spectrum.” [Abstract] Bulletin of
the American Astronomical Society, volume 7 (1975), page 360.

Avrett, E. H., R. J. Davis, W. A. Deutschman, K. L. Haramundanis, C. Payne-
Gaposchkin, R. L. Kurucz, E. Peytremann, and R. E. Schild. “Report on the
Celescope Ultraviolet Observations from the OAO-2 Satellite and Asso-
ciated Research at the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory.” In Space
Research XIV, edited by M. J. Rycroft and R. D. Reasenberg, pages 515-521.
Berlin: Akademie-Verlag, 1974.

Ball, J. A. “Reverse-Polish or Algebraic Entry.” Electronic Design, volume 23
(1975), pages 50-52.

Barkat, Z. K., J.C. Wheeler, J—R. Buchler, and G. Rakavy. “Envelope Dynamics
of Iron-Core Supernova Models.” Astrophysics and Space Science, volume
29 (1974), pages 267-283.

Bieniek, R. J. “Semi-Classical Uniform Approximation in Penning Ionization.”
Journal of Physics B: Atomic and Molecular Physics, volume 7 (1974), pages
L266—-L270.

Billiris, H. G., M. D. Papagiannis, C. G. Lehr, and M. R. Pearlman. “Beam
Wavefront Distortions in a Laser Ranging System.” Smithsonian Astro-
physical Observatory Laser Report, No. 7 (1975), 19 pages.

Black, J. H., E. J. Chaisson, J. A. Ball, H. Penfield, A. E. Lilley. “Radiofrequency
Emission from CH in Comet Kohoutek (1973f).” Astrophysical Journal
(Letters), volume 191 (1974), pages L45—L47.

Bokhari, S. H., A. Javed, and M. D. Grossi. “Data Storage for Adaptive
Meteor Scatter Communications.” Institute of Electrical and Electronics
Engineers Transactions on Communications, volume COM-23, number 3
(1975), pages 397-399.

Bottcher, C., and A. Dalgarno. “A Constructive Model Potential Method for
Atomic Interactions.” Proceedings of the Royal Society, London, series A,
volume 340 (1974), pages 187-198.

Brumer, P. “Rotational Excitation and Interference Effects in Atom-Rotor
Collisions.” Chemical Physics Letters, volume 28 (1974), pages 345-351.
Cameron, A. G. W. “Concluding Remarks.” In Physics of Dense Matter, edited
by C. J. Hansen, pages 321-327. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing

Company, 1974.

. “Clumping of Interstellar Grains during Formation of the Primitive
Solar Nebula.” Icarus, volume 24 (1975), pages 128-133.

———. “Cosmogonical Considerations Regarding Uranus.” Icarus, volume 24
(1975), pages 280-284.

. “Hot Vibrating White Dwarf Models of Pulsating X-Ray Sources.”
Astrophysics and Space Science, volume 32 (1975), pages 215-229.

Cameron, A. G. W., and V. Canuto. “Neutron Stfrs: General Review.” In
Astrophysics and Gravitation, pages 221-278. Bruxelles, Belgium: Editions
de l’University de Bruxelles, 1974.

Carleton, N. P., and W. A. Traub. “Observations of Spatial and Temporal
Variations of the Jovian Hz Quadrupole Lines.” Exploration of the Planetary
System, edited by A. Woszczyk and C. Iwaniszewska-Lubienska, pages
345-349. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1974.

Carleton, N. P., W. A. Traub, and J. Noxon. “A Search for Martian Dayglow
Resulting from Ozone Photolysis” [Abstract]. Bulletin of the American
Astronomical Society, volume 6 (1974), page 372.

Carlsten, J. L. “Laser Selective Excitation of a Three-Level Atom: Barium.”

398 / Smithsonian Year 1975
Journal of Physics B: Atomic and Molecular Physics, volume 7 (1974), pages

1620-1632.

. “Photoionization of Barium Clouds via the 23D Metastable Levels.”
Planetary Space Science, volume 23 (1975), pages 53-60.

Carlsten, J. L., and P. C. Dunn. “Stimulated Stokes Emission with a Dye
Laser: Intense Tuneable Radiation in the Infrared.” Optics Communications,
volume 14 (1975), pages 8-12.

Carlsten, J. L., T. J. MclIlrath, and W. H. Parkinson. “Measurement of the
Photoionization Cross Section from the Laser-Populated #D Metastable
Levels in Barium.” Journal of Physics B: Atomic and Molecular Physics,
volume 7 (1974), pages L244—L248.

. “Absorption Spectrum of the Laser-Populated 2D Metastable Levels
in Barium.” Journal of Physics B: Atomic and Molecular Physics, volume 8
(1975), pages 38-51.

Chaisson, E. J. “High-Frequency Observations of Possible ‘Heavy-Element’
Recombination Lines.” Astrophysical Journal, volume 191 (1974), pages
411-414.

. “Microwave Observations of Rho Ophiuchi.” [Abstract] Bulletin of

the American Astronomical Society, volume 6 (1974), page 436.

. “Microwave Observations of the Rho Ophiuchi Dark Cloud.” Astro-

physical Journal (Letters), volume 197 (1975), pages L65—L68.

. “On Nebular Non-Equilibrium Thermodynamics.” United States Na-
tional Committee/International Union of Radio Science Meeting, Boulder,
Colorado, October 1974; Program of Abstracts, page 73.

Chaisson, E. J., and C. A. Beichman. “Magnetism in Dense Interstellar Clouds.”
[Abstract] Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society, volume 6 (1974),
page 336.

Chaisson, E. J., R. I. Ingalls, A. E. E. Rogers, and I. I. Shapiro. “An Upper
Limit on the Radar Cross-Section of Comet Kohoutek.” Icarus, volume 24
(1975), pages 188-189.

Chase, R. C., L. Golub, A. Krieger, J. K. Silk, G. S. Vaiana, M. Zombeck, and
A. F. Timothy. “Temperature and Density Measurements of Coronal
Loops.” [Abstract] Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society, volume
7 (1975), page 346.

Chetin, T., C. J. Forman, and W. Liller. “Optical Characteristics of Candidate
Stars for X-Ray Sources in the Large Magellanic Cloud.” [Abstract] Bulletin
of the American Astronomical Society, volume 6 (1974), page 304.

Chu, S.-I., and A. Dalgarno. “Fine Structure of C* in Collision with Hb.”
Journal of Chemical Physics, volume 62 (1975), pages 4009-4015.

. “The Rotational Excitation of Carbon Monoxide by Hydrogen Atom

Impact.” Proceedings of the Royal Society, London, series A, volume 342

(1975), pages 191-207.

. “Rotational Excitation of CH* by Electron Impact.” Physical Review
A, volume 10 (1974), pages 788-792.

Dalgarno, A. “The Formation of Interstellar Molecules by lIon-Molecule
Reactions.” In Interactions Between Ions and Molecules, edited by P.
Ausloos, pages 341-352. New York: Plenum Publishing Corporation, 1975.

Dalgarno, A., T. de Jong, M. Oppenheimer, and J. H. Black. “Hydrogen
Chloride in Dense Interstellar Clouds.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters),
volume 192 (1974), pages L37-L39.

Dalgarno, A., and M. Oppenheimer. “Chemical Heating of Interstellar Clouds.”
Astrophysical Journal, volume 192 (1974), pages 597-599.

Davis, M. “Television Surface Photometry of the Edge-On Spiral Galaxies
NGC 3987 and NGC 5907.” Astronomical Journal, volume 80 (1975), pages
188-193.

Appendix 7. Publications of the Staff / 399
Davis, M., and D. T. Wilkinson. “Search for Primeval Galaxies at Large
Redshift.” Astrophysical Journal, volume 192 (1974), pages 251-259.

Dickinson, D. F. “Water Vapor in Infrared Stars.” [Abstract] Bulletin of
the American Astronomical Society, volume 6 (1974), page 340.

Dickinson, D. F., and E. J. Chaisson. “An OH Survey of the Hoffmann 100 u
Sources.” Astronomical Journal, volume 79 (1974), pages 938-940.

Dickinson, D. F., J. A. Frogel, and S. E. Persson, “CO Emission Associated
with Sharpless H II Regions.” Astrophysical Journal, volume 192 (1974),
pages 347-350.

Dickinson, D. F., G. Kojoian, and S. E. Strom. “A Strong Water Maser Asso-
ciated with a Herbig-Haro Object.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters), volume
194 (1974), pages L93-L95.

Docken, K. K. “A Test of the R-Centroid Method.” Chemical Physics Letters,
volume 30 (1975), pages 334-336.

Docken, K. K., and R. R. Freeman. “Some Molecular Properties of LiH and
LiD.” Journal of Chemical Physics, volume 61 (1974), pages 4217-4223.
Doyle, H., M. Oppenheimer, and A. Dalgarno. “Bound-State Expansion Method
for Calculating Resonance and Nonresonance Contributions to Continuum
Processes: Theoretical Development and Application to the Photoionization
of Helium and the Hydrogen Negative Ion.” Physical Review, series A,

volume 11 (1975), pages 909-915.

Dupree, A. K. “Ultraviolet Observations of Capella from Copernicus.” [Ab-
stract] Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society, volume 7 (1975),
page 359.

. “Ultraviolet Observations of Chromospheric Emission Lines in G
Stars.” [Abstract] Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society, volume
6 (1974), page 446.

Dupree, A. K., P. V. Foukal, M. C. E. Huber, R. W. Noyes, E. M. Reeves, E. J.
Schmahl, J. G. Timothy, J. E. Vernazza, and G. L. Withbroe. “Extreme
Ultraviolet Solar Spectra from Skylab-Apollo Telescope Mount.” [Abstract]
Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society, volume 6 (1974), page 349.

Elliot, J. L., L. H. Wasserman, J. Veverka, C. Sagan, and W. Liller. “Occulta-
tion of 8 Scorpii by Jupiter. V. The Emersion of 8 Scorpii C.” Astronomical
Journal, volume 80 (1975), pages 323-332.

Fazio, G. G., D. E. Kleinmann, R. W. Noyes, E. L. Wright, and F. J. Low. “A
Balloon—Borne 1—Meter Telescope for Far—Infrared Astronomy.” In Pro-
ceedings of the Symposium on Telescope Systems for Balloon—Borne Re-
search, Ames Research Center, California, NASA TM X-62, 397, pages 38-
50. 1974.

Fazio, G. G., D. E. Kleinman, R. W. Noyes, E. L. Wright, M. Zeilik, II, and
F. J. Low. “A High Resolution Map of the Orion Nebula at Far-Infrared
Wavelengths.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters), volume 192 (1974), pages
L23-L25.

. “High Resolution Maps of H II Regions at Ear-Infrared Wavelengths.
In H II Regions in the Galactic Centre, Eighth ESLAB Symposium, edited
by A. F. M. Moorwood, pages 79-85. Neuilly, France: European Space Re-
search Organization, 1974.

Field, G. B. “Intergalactic Gas.” In Confrontation between Cosmological
Theories and Observational Data, edited by M. S. Longair, pages 13-30.
Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1974.

. “The Physics of Interstellar Matter.” In Highlights of Astronomy,

edited by G. Contopoulos, volume 3, pages 37-50. Dordrecht, Holland: D.

Reidel Publishing Company, 1974.

. “Intergalactic Matter in Clusters of Galaxies.” [Abstract] Bulletin of

the American Astronomical Society, volume 6 (1974), page 275.

. “Interstellar Depletion.” [Abstract] Bulletin of the American As-

tronomical Society, volume 6 (1974), page 262.

”

400 / Smithsonian Year 1975
Fireman, E. L. “Regolith History from Cosmic-Ray-Produced Nuclides.” In
Proceedings of the Fifth Lunar Science Conference, Geochrimica et Cosmo-
chimica Acta, supplement 5, volume 2, pages 2075-2092. New York:
Pergamon Press, 1974.

Fireman, E. L., J. D'Amico, and J. DeFelice. “Solar Wind Tritium Limit from
Surveyor 3.” In Lunar Science VI, pages 266-267. Houston, Texas: Lunar
Science Institute, 1975.

Ford, A. L., K. K. Docken, and A. Dalgarno. “The Photoionization and Disso-
ciative Photoionization of Hz, HD, and D:.” Astrophysical Journal, volume
195 (1975), pages 819-824.

Forman, W., R. Giacconi, C. Jones, E. Schreier, and H. Tananbaum. “Uhuru
Observations of Short-Time-Scale Variations of the Crab.” Astrophysical
Journal (Letters), volume 193 (1974), pages L67—L70.

Foukal, P. V. “The Pressure Balance and Currents in Active Region Loop
Structures.” [Abstract] Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society,
volume 7 (1975), page 346.

. “A Three-Component Concept of the Chromosphere and Transition
Region.” Solar Physics, volume 37 (1974), pages 317-321.

Foukal, P. V., M. C. E. Huber, R. W. Noyes, E. M. Reeves, E. J. Schmahl, J. G.
Timothy, J. E. Vernazza, and G. L. Withbroe. “Extreme Ultraviolet Observa-
tions of Sunspots with the Harvard Spectrometer on ATM.” Astrophysical
Journal (Letters), volume 193 (1974), pages L143-L145.

Franklin, F. A. “Structure of Saturn’s Rings: Optical and Dynamical Con-
siderations.” In The Rings of Saturn, edited by F. D. Palluconi and G. H.
Pettengill, NASA SP-343, pages 3-15. Washington, D. C., 1974.

Franklin, F. A., and A. F. Cook. “Photometry of Saturn’s Satellites: The
Opposition Effect of Iapetus at Maximum Light and the Variability of
Titan.” Icarus, volume 23 (1974), pages 355-362.

Freeman, R. R., E. M. Mattison, D. E. Pritchard, D. Kleppner. “Alkali-Metal
Hyperfine Shift in the Van der Waals Molecule KAr.” Physical Review
Letters, volume 33 (1974), pages 397-399.

Frogel, J. A., and S. E. Persson. “Compact Infrared Sources Associated with
Southern H II Regions.” Astrophysical Journal, volume 192 (1974), pages
351-368.

. “Infrared Emission from OH 284.2-0.8.” Astrophysical Journal, volume
197 (1975), pages 351-353.

Frogel, J. A., S. E. Persson, M. Aaronson, E. E. Becklin, K. Matthews, and G.
Neugebauer. “Stellar Content of the Nuclei of Elliptical Galaxies Determined
from 2.3-Micron CO Band Strengths.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters),
volume 195 (1975), pages L15-L18.

. “Stellar Content of Elliptical Galaxy Nuclei.” [Abstract] Bulletin of
the American Astronomical Society, volume 1 (1974), page 441.

Gaposchkin, E. M. “Earth’s Gravity Field to the Eighteenth Degree and Geo-
centric Coordinates for 104 Stations from Satellite and Terrestrial Data.”
Journal of Geophysical Research, volume 79 (1974), pages 5377-5411.

Garton, W. R. S., and W. H. Parkinson. “Series of Autoionization Resources
in Ba I Converging on Ba II 62P.” Proceedings of the Royal Society, London,
series A, volume 341 (1974), pages 45-48.

Garton, W. R. S., E. M. Reeves, and F. S. Tomkins. ‘Hyperfine Structure and
Isotope Shift of the 6s6p* *Pij2 Level of Tl I.” Proceedings of the Royal
Society, London, series A, volume 341 (1974), pages 163-166.

Gerassimenko, M., J. M. Davis, R. C. Chase, A. S. Krieger, J. K. Silk, and
G. S. Vaiana. “Simultaneous X-Ray Spectra and X-Ray Images of an Active
Region.” [Abstract] Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society, volume
7 (1975), page 347.

Giacconi, R. “X-Ray Sky.” In X-Ray Astronomy, edited by R. Giacconi and

Appendix 7. Publications of the Staff / 401
H. Gursky, pages 155-168. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Com-
pany, 1974.

Giacconi, R., and H. Gursky, editors. X-Ray Astronomy. Dordrecht, Holland:
D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1974.

Gillett, F. C., D. E. Kleinmann, E. L. Wright, and R. W. Capps. “Observations
of M82 and NGC 253 at 8-13 Microns.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters),
volume 198 (1975), pages L65-L68.

Gingerich, O. J. “The Astronomy and Cosmology of Copernicus.” In High-
lights in Astronomy, edited by G. Contopoulos, volume 3, pages 67-85.
Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1974.

. “’Crisis’ Versus Aesthetic in the Copernican Revolution.” Vistas in

Astronomy, volume 17 (1975), pages 85-96.

. “Does Science Have a Future?” In The Nature of Scientific Discovery,

pages 237-245. Washington, D. C.: Smithsonian Press, 1975.

. “E. Reinhold.” In Dictionary of Scientific Biography, volume 11, pages

365-367. New York: Scribner’s, 1975.

. “Kepler’s Place in Astronomy.

(1975), pages 261-279.

. “Laboratory Exercises in Astronomy—Proper Motion.” Sky and Tele-

scope, volume 49 (1975), pages 96-98.

. “Views in Collision.” In Science Year, The World Book Science An-

nual, page 249. Chicago: Field Enterprises, 1974.

, editor. The Nature of Scientific Discovery. Washington, D. C.: Smith-

sonian Press, 1975, 616 pages.

[Introductions] New Frontiers in Astronomy (Readings from The
Scientific American). San Francisco: W. H. Freeman and Company, 1975.
Gingerich, O. J., and B. Welther. “Note on Flamsteed’s Lunar Tables.” British

Journal of the History of Science, volume 7 (1974), pages 254, 257-258.

Goad, J. W. “Kinematic Phenomena in the Nuclear Region of M81.” Astro-
physical Journal, volume 192 (1974), pages 311-317.

Golub, L., A. Krieger, R. Simon, G. Vaiana, and A. F. Timothy. “Temporal
and Spatial Properties of Coronal Bright Points.” [Abstract] Bulletin of the
American Astronomical Society, volume 7 (1975), page 350.

Gorenstein, P. “Interstellar Medium.” X-Ray Astronomy, edited by R. Giac-
coni and H. Gursky, pages 299-319. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publish-
ing Company, 1974.

. “Empirical Relation between Interstellar X-Ray Absorption and
Optical Extinction.” Astrophysical Journal, volume 198 (1975), pages 95-101.

Gorenstein, P., H. Gursky, F. R. Harnden, Jr., A. De Caprio, and P. Bjorkholm.
“Large Area Soft X-Ray Imaging System for Cosmic X-Ray Studies from
Rockets.” Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers Transactions on
Nuclear Science, volume NS-22 (1975), pages 616-619.

Gorenstein, P., F. R. Harnden, Jr., and W. H. Tucker. “Tlte X-Ray Spectra of
the Vela and Puppis Supernova Remnants and the Shock-Wave Model of
Supernova Remnants.” Astrophysical Journal, volume 192 (1974), pages
661-676.

Gorenstein, P., H. Helmken, and H. Gursky. “X-Ray Camera for the Detec-
tion and Localization of Gamma-Ray Bursts.” In The Context and Status of
Gamma-Ray Astronomy, Ninth ESLAB Symposium, edited by B. G. Taylor,
pages 51+ . Noordwijk, The Netherlands: ESRO Scientific and Technical
Branch, 1974.

Gorenstein, P., and W. H. Tucker. “Supernova Remnants.” In X-Ray As-
tronomy, edited by R. Giacconi and H. Gursky, pages 267-297. Dordrecht,
Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1974.

Gottlieb, E. W., E. L. Wright, and W. Liller. “Optical Studies of Whuru Sources.
XI. A Probable Period for Scorpius X-1 = V818 Scorpii.” Astrophysical
Journal (Letters), volume 195 (1975), pages L33—L35.

”

Vistas in Astronomy, volume 18

402 / Smithsonian Year 1975
Grindlay, J. E. “Monte Carlo Calculations of Nuclear Cascades and Associated
Cérenkov Radiation in Extensive Air Showers.” Physical Review, series D,
volume 11 (1975), pages 517-522.

Grindlay, J. E., H. F. Helmken, R. Hanbury Brown, J. Davis and L. Allen.
“Evidence for the Detection of Gamma Rays from Centaurus A at Ey = 3 X
101! eV.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters), volume 197 (1975), pages L9-L12.

Grindlay, J. E., H. F. Helmken, R. Hanbury Brown, J. Davis and L. R. Allen.
“Observations of Southern Sky Gamma Ray Sources at Ey = 3 X 101! eV.”
In The Context and Status of Gamma-Ray Astronomy, Ninth ESLAB Sym-
posium, edited by B. G. Taylor, pages 279-285. Noordwijk, The Netherlands:
ESRO Scientific and Technical Branch, 1974.

Grindlay, J. E., H. F. Helmken, and T. C. Weekes. “Observations of NP 0532
at 1011 — 10!2 eV Gamma Ray Energies.” In The Context and Status of
Gamma-Ray Astronomy, Ninth ESLAB Symposium, edited by B. G. Taylor,
pages 301-306. Noordwijk, The Netherlands: ESRO Scientific and Technical
Branch, 1974.

Grindlay, J. E., E. L. Wright, and R. E. McCrosky. “Search for Optical Emission
from Cosmic Gamma Ray Bursts.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters), volume
192 (1974), pages L113-L114.

Gursky, H., H. Schnopper, E. Schreier, and D. Parsignault. “Preliminary X-Ray
Results from the Astronomical Netherlands Satellite (ANS).” [Abstract]
Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society, volume 6 (1974), page
444, .

Gursky, H., and D. Schwartz. “Observational Techniques.” In X-Ray As-
tronomy, edited by R. Giacconi and H. Gursky, pages 25-98. Dordrecht,
Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1974.

Harvey, J. W., A. S. Krieger, J. M. Davis, A. F. Timothy, and G. S. Vaiana.
“Comparison of Skylab X-Ray and Ground-Based Helium Observations.”
[Abstract] Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society, volume 7 (1975),
page 358.

Hayes, D. S., and D. W. Latham. “A Rediscussion of the Atmospheric Extinc-
tion and the Absolute Spectral-Energy Distribution of Vega.” Astrophysical
Journal, volume 197 (1975), pages 593-601.

Hayes, D. S., D. W. Latham, and S. H. Hayes. “Measurements of the Mono-
chromatic Flux from Vega in the Near Infrared.” Astrophysical Journal,
volume 197 (1975), pages 587-592.

Henry, J. P. “Extreme-Ultraviolet Astronomy.” Ph.D. thesis, University of
California, Berkeley, 1974.

Henry, J. P., R. Cruddace, F. Paresee, M. Lampton, and S. Bowyer. “Large
Area Extreme Ultraviolet Focusing Collector.” Review of Scientific Instru-
ments, volume 46 (1975), pages 355-361.

Hodge, P. W. “Dark Nebulae in the Small Magellanic Cloud.” Publications of
the Astronomical Society of the Pacific, volume 86 (1974), pages 263-266.

. “The Distribution of Star Clusters in the Small Magellanic Cloud.”

Astronomical Journal, volume 79 (1974), pages 860-863.

“Filaments from the Galaxy NGC 1569.” Astrophysical Journal

(Letters), volume 191 (1974), pages L21—L22.

. “Photometry of the Globular Clusters of NGC 185.” Publications of

the Astronomical Society of the Pacific, volume 86 (1974), pages 289-293.

. “The Radial Velocity and Distance of GR8.” Publications of the

Astronomical Society of the Pacific, volume 86 (1974), pages 645-648.

. “The Transparency of the Small Magellanic Cloud.” Astrophysical
Journal, volume 192 (1974), pages 21-27.

Hodge, P. W., and F. W. Wright. “Catalog of 86 New Star Clusters in the
Small Magellanic Cloud.” Astronomical Journal, volume 79 (1974), pages

858-859.
Huber, M. C. E. “Hook-Method Measurements of gf-Values for Ultraviolet

Appendix 7. Publications of the Staff / 403
Fe I and Fe II Lines on a Shock Tube.” Astrophysical Journal, volume 190
(1974), pages 237-240.

Huber, M. C. E., P. V. Foukal, R. W. Noyes, E. M. Reeves, E. J. Schmahl, J. G.
Timothy, J. E. Vernazza, and G. L. Withbroe. “Extreme-Ultraviolet Observa-
tions of Coronal Holes: Initial Results from Skylab.” Astrophysical Journal
(Letters), volume 194 (1974), pages L115-L118.

Huber, M. C. E., R. J. Sandeman, and E. F. Tubbs. “The Spectrum of Cr I
between 179.8 and 200 nm Wavelengths, Absorption Cross Sections, and
Oscillator Strengths.” Proceedings of the Royal Society, London, series A,
volume 342 (1975), pages 431-438.

Huber, M. C. E., P. L. Smith, and W. H. Parkinson. “Measurement of the
Refractive Index of Helium and of Krypton for 1700 A = \ = 2880 A”
(abstract). Bulletin of the American Physical Society, volume 19 (1974),
page 1177.

Jacchia, L. G. “A Search for Lunar Tides in the Thermosphere.” Journal of
Geophysical Research, volume 80 (1975), pages 1374-1375.

Jones, C., R. Giacconi, W. Forman, and H. Tananbaum. “Observations of
Circinus X-1 from Uhuru.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters), volume 191
(1974), pages L71—-L74.

Jones, C., W. Forman, and W. Liller. “X-Ray Sources and Their Optical
Counterparts I.” Sky and Telescope, volume 48 (1974), pages 289-291.

. “X-Ray Sources and Their Optical Counterparts II.” Sky and Tele-

scope, volume 48 (1974), pages 372-375.

. “X-Ray Sources and Their Optical Counterparts III.” Sky and Tele-
scope, volume 49 (1975), pages 10-13.

Jordan, C. “The Measurement of Electron Densities from Beryllium-Like Ion
Line Ratios.” Astronomy and Astrophysics, volume 34 (1974), pages 69-73.

Kahler, S. W., A. S. Krieger, and G. S. Vaiana. ‘General Properties of Soft
X-Ray Flare Images.” [Abstract] Bulletin of the American Astronomical
Society, volume 7 (1975), page 355.

Kalkofen, W., and P. Ulmschneider. “The Theoretical Temperature Minimum.”
[Abstract] Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society, volume 7 (1975),
page 363.

Kellogg, E. M. “Extragalactic X-Ray Sources.” In X-Ray Astronomy, edited by
R. Giacconi and H. Gursky, pages 321-357. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel
Publishing Company, 1974.

. “X-Ray Astronomy in the Uhuru Epoch and Beyond.” Astrophysical
Journal, volume 197 (1975), pages 689-704. [Abstract] Bulletin of the Ameri-
can Astronomical Society, volume 6 (1974), page 321.

Kellogg, E., and S. Murray. “Studies of Cluster X-Ray Sources; Size Measure-
ments.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters), volume 193 (1974), pages L57—L60.

Kinoshita, H. “Formulas for Precession.” Smithsonian ‘Astrophysical Observa-
tory Special Report Number 364 (February 1975).

Kleinmann, D. E., and E. L. Wright. “10-~ Observations of Southern Hemi-
sphere Galaxies.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters), volume 191 (1974), pages
L19-L20.

Knowles, S. H., K. J. Johnston, E. O. Hulburt, J. M. Moran, B. F. Burke, K. Y.
Lo, and G. D. Papadopoulos. “Further Interferometer Observations of the
Water Vapor Sources in W49.” Astronomical Journal, volume 79 (1974),
pages 925-932.

Kohl, J. L., W. H. Parkinson, and E. M. Reeves. ‘Measurements of Solar Line
Profiles Between 1175 and 3200 A.” [Abstract] Bulletin of the American
Astronomical Society, volume 7 (1975), page 360.

Kojoian, G., D. Dickinson, R. A. Sramek, and H. M. Tovmassian. ‘Flux
Density Measurements of Markarian Objects at Centimeter Wavelengths.”
[Abstract] Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society, volume 6 (1974),
page 342.

404 / Smithsonian Year 1975
Kowal, C. T., K. Aksnes, B. G. Marsden, and E. Roemer. “Thirteenth Satellite
of Jupiter.” Astronomical Journal, volume 80 (1975), pages 460-464.

Kurucz, R. L., and E. Peytremann. “A Table of Semiempirical gf Values.”
Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory Special Report Number 362, 4 parts
(February 1975).

Lada, C. J., and E. J. Chaisson. “Observations of Formaldehyde Toward M17.”
Astrophysical Journal, volume 195 (1975), pages 367-377.

Lada, C. J., T. R. Gull, C. A. Gottlieb, and E. W. Gottlieb. “Radio CO and
Optical Ionization Structure of M8.” [Abstract] Bulletin of the American
Astronomical Society, volume 6 (1974), page 426.

Lada, C. J., C. A. Gottlieb, M. M. Litvak, and A. E. Lilley. “Molecular Studies
of Two Dark Nebulae Associated with Herbig-Haro Objects.” Astrophysical
Journal, volume 194 (1974), pages 609-618.

Laughlin, C. “1s?2s 2S,,, — 1s2s2p *P;,. and 1s?2s? 15, — 1s?2s2p °P, Mag-
netic Quadrupole Transitions.” Journal of Physics B: Atomic and Molecular
Physics, volume 8 (1975), pages 842-851.

Laughlin, C., and G. A. Victor. “Multiplet Splittings and 1S,—*P, Intercom-
bination-Line Oscillator Strengths in Be I and Mg I.” Astrophysical Journal,
volume 192 (1974), pages 551-556.

Lautman, D. A. “Perturbations of a Close Earth Satellite Due to Sunlight Re-
flected from the Earth.” [Abstract] Bulletin of the American Astronomical
Society, volume 7 (1975), page 341.

Lecar, M. “Bode’s Law.” In The Stability of the Solar-System and of Small
Stellar Systems, edited by Y. Kozai, page 21. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel
Publishing Company, 1974.

Lecar, M., and F. A. Franklin. “On the Original Distribution of the Asteroids.”
In The Stability of the Solar System and of Small Stellar Systems, edited
by Y. Kozai, pages 37-56. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Com-
pany, 1974.

Liller, W. “Optical Studies of Whuru Sources. X. The Photometric History of
He 2-177 (= 3U 1639-62?).” Astrophysical Journal (Letters), volume 192
(1974), pages L89-L91.

Litvak, M. M. “Coherent Molecular Radiation.” Annual Review of Astronomy
and Astrophysics, volume 12 (1974), pages 97-112.

Lo, K. Y., R. C. Walker, B. F. Burke, J. M. Moran, K. J. Johnston, and M. S.
Ewing. “Evidence for Zeeman Splitting in 1720-MHz OH Line Emission.”
[Abstract] Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society, volume 7 (1975),
page 261.

Mader, G. L., K. J. Johnston, J. M. Moran, S. H. Knowles, S$. A. Mango, and
P. R. Schwartz. “The Relative Positions of the H,O and OH Masers in W49
and W30H.” [Abstract] Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society,
volume 6 (1974), pages 442-443.

Mariska, J. T., and G. L. Withbroe. “Extreme Ultraviolet Solar Limb Brighten-
ing Observations of Lithium-Like Ions.” [Abstract] Bulletin of the American
Astronomical Society, volume 7 (1975), page 354.

Marsden, B. G. Catalogue of Cometary Orbits, second edition. International
Astronomical Union Central Bureau for Astronomical Telegrams, 1975, 83
pages.

. “Joseph Haines Moore.” In Dictionary of Scientific Biography, volume

9, pages 503-504. New York: Scribner’s, 1974.

. “Nongravitational Effects on Comets: A Progress Report.” In Aste-

roids, Comets, Meteoric Matter, edited by C. Cristescu, W. J. Klepczynski,

and B. Milet, pages 181-185. Bucharest: Academiei Republicii, 1974.

“On Following Up Newly-Discovered Earth-Approaching Minor

Planets.” In Asteroids, Comets, Meteoric Matter, edited by C. Cristescu,

W. J. Klopezynski, and B. Milet, pages 73-75. Bucharest: Academiei Re-

publicii, 1974.

Appendix 7. Publications of the Staff / 405
. “Annual Report of the Central Bureau for Astronomical Telegrams.”
International Astronomical Union Information Bulletin Number 32 (1974),
pages 4-5.

. “Central Bureau for Astronomical Telegrams.” Transactions of the
International Astronomical Union, volume XVB (1974), pages 187-191.

. “Comets.” Annual Review of Astronomy and Astrophysics, volume 14
(1974), pages 1-21.

. “Comets in 1973.” Quarterly Journal of the Royal Astronomical So-
ciety, volume 15 (1974), pages 433-460.

. “The Kohoutek Controversy.” Hermes, volume 21 (1974), pages 123-

ut

126.

. “Simon Newcomb.” In Dictionary of Scientific Biography, volume 10,

pages 33-36. New York: Scribner’s, 1974.

. “William Henry Pickering.” In Dictionary of Scientific Biography,

volume 10, pages 601-602. New York: Scribner’s, 1974.

. “Report of IAU Colloquium No. 25.” International Astronomical

Union Commission 20, Circular, number 2 (1975), pages 6-7.

. “Report of Meeting of Commission 6.” Transactions of the Interna-

tional Astronomical Union, volume XVB (1974), pages 75-76.

. “Report of Meeting of Commission 20.” Transactions of the Interna-
tional Astronomical Union, volume XVB (1974), pages 123-126.

Marsden, B. G., and R. F. Griffin. “On the Azimuth of the Sun.” The Observa-
tory, volume 94 (1974), pages 316-318.

Marsden, B. G., and E. Roemer. “Cometary Brightness Predictions.” Inter-
national Astronomical Union Commission 15, Circular Letter, number 3
(1974), page 7.

Marvin, U. B. “Continental Drift.” Encyclopaedia Britannica, fifteenth edition.
1974, volume 5, pages 108-115.

. “Specimen 72235 Documentation.” In Interdisciplinary Studies of

Samples from Boulder 1, Station 2 Apollo 17. Compilation of the Studies

of the Consortium Indomitabile, volume 2, pages A-1 to A-5. 1974.

“Specimen 72215.” In Interdisciplinary Studies of Samples from
Boulder 1, Station 2 Apollo 17. Compilation of the Studies of the Consor-
tium Indomitabile, volume 2, pages B-1 to B-13. 1974.

Marvin, U. B., D. B. Stoeser, and J. Bower. ““Marble-Cake Clast: A Miniature
Rock Complex from the Lunar Highlands.” Meteoritics, volume 9 (1974),
pages 377-379.

. “Niobium and Zirconium-Bearing Minerals of the Civet Cat Lunar
Norite.” Geological Society of America, Abstracts with Programs, volume
6 (1974), page 585.

Marvin, U. B., D. B. Stoeser, R. W. Wolfe, J. A. Wood, and J. Bower. “Petro-
graphic Studies of a Boulder from the South Massif.” [Abstract] In Lunar
Science V, part II, pages 743-745. Houston, Texas: Lunar Science Institute,
1974.

Mather, J. C., and M. M. Litvak. “Vibrationally Excited Silicon Monoxide
Masers with Radiation Trapping.” [Abstract] Bulletin of the American
Astronomical Society, volume 6 (1974), pages 487-488.

Maxwell, A., and R. Rinehart. “Shock Waves Generated by the Intense Solar
Flare of 1972, August 7, 15:00 UT.” Solar Physics, volume 37 (1974), pages
437-442.

Mazurek, T. J. “Chemical Potential Effects on Neutrino Diffusion in Super-
novae.” [Abstract] Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society, volume
6 (1974), page 314.

Mazurek, T. J., R. J. Buchler, and J. W. Truran. “The Afterclap of Degenerate
Carbon Ignition.” Comments on Astrophysics and Space Science, volume 6
(1974).

406 / Smithsonian Year 1975
Mendillo, M., G. S. Hawkins, and J. A. Klobuchar. “A Large-Scale Hole in the
Ionosphere Caused by the Launch of Skylab.” Science, volume 187 (1975),
pages 343-346.

Menzel, D. H. “The Escape of Planetary Atmospheres.” Exploration of the
Planetary System, edited by A. Woszczyk and C. Iwaniszewska-Lubienska,
pages 37-39. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1974.

Mercier, C., and H. Rosenberg. “Type III Solar Radio Bursts Observed at 169
MHz: Height and Relative Positions in Pairs.” Solar Physics, volume 39
(1974), pages 193-206.

Mertz, L. “Applicability of the Rotation Collimator to Nuclear Medicine.”
Optics Communications, volume 12 (1974), pages 216-219.

. “Mode-Locked Maser Theory of Pulsars.” Astrophysics and Space
Science, volume 30 (1974), pages 43-55.

Mitchell, C. J. “Neutral Magnesium: Determination of f-values of Principal
Series and Intercombination Transitions by the Hook Method.” Journal of
Physics B: Atomic and Molecular Physics, volume 8 (1975), pages 25-30.

Mitler, H. E. “Formation of an Iron-Poor Moon by Partial Capture, or: Yet
Another Exotic Theory of Lunar Origin.” Icarus, volume 24 (1975), pages
256-268.

Mohr, P. A. “Mapping of the Major Structures of the African Rift System.”
Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory Special Report number 361, (Oc-
tober 1974).

Moran, J. M., K. Y. Lo, R. C. Walker, B. F. Burke, K. J. Johnston, G. L. Mader,
S. H. Knowles, E. O. Hulburt, and G. D. Papadopoulos. “VLBI Studies of
H2O Maser Sources.” [Abstract] Bulletin of the American Astronomical
Society, volume 6 (1974), pages 436-437.

Nolte, J., A. S. Krieger, D. Webb, G. S. Vaiana, A. J. Lazarus, J. Sullivan, and
A. F. Timothy. “The Coronal Source of Recurrent, High Speed Solar Wind
Streams.” [Abstract] Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society,
volume 7 (1975), page 358.

Noyes, R. W. “The Extreme Ultraviolet Spectrum of Sunspots.” [Abstract]
Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society, volume 6 (1975), page 428.

O’Mongain, E., and T. C. Weekes. “A Search for Radio-Optical Bursts from
Catastrophic Events.” Publications of the Astronomical Society of the
Pacific, volume 86 (1974), pages 470-476.

Onello, J. S. ““(1s)?3s 2S, (1s)23p 2P and (1s)*3d 2D States of the Lithium
Isoelectronic Sequence.” Physical Review, volume 11 (1975), pages 743-748.

Onello, J. S., and L. Ford. “Magnetic Quadrupole Decay of the (1s2s2p)*
P°_ ,.—(1s)?2s S*,,, Transition.” Physical Review, volume 11 (1975), pages
749-752.

Oppenheimer, M. “Comets and Interstellar Masers.’” Nature, volume 254
(1975), pages 677-678.

. “Gas Phase Chemistry in Comets.” Astrophysical Journal, volume 196
(1975), pages 251-259.

Oppenheimer, M., and A. Dalgarno. “The Fractional Ionization in Dense
Interstellar Clouds.” Astrophysical Journal, volume 192 (1974), pages 29-32.

Payne-Gaposchkin, C. H. “Distribution and Ages of the Magellanic Cepheids.”
Smithsonian Contributions to Astrophysics, number 16 (1974), 32 pages

. “Period, Color, and Luminosity for Cepheid Variables.” Smithsonian
Contributions to Astrophysics, number 17 (1974), 10 pages.

Pennypacker, C. R., B. M. Lasker, S. B. Bracker, and J. E. Hesser. “An Upper
Limit on Optical Pulsations from Sanduleak 160.” Astrophysical Journal.
volume 198 (1975), pages 161-162.

Pennypacker, C. R., C. Papaliolios, C. Canizares, and J. McClintock. “Binary
Pulsar.” International Astronomical Union Circular, number 2720 (1974).

Perrenod, S. C., and G. A. Shields. “X-Ray Heating and the Optical Light

Appendix 7. Publications of the Staff / 407
Curve of HZ Herculis.” Astrophysical Journal, volume 198 (1975), pages
153-160. [Abstract] Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society, volume
6 (1974), page 304.

Perri, F., and A. G. W. Cameron. “Hydrodynamic Instability of the Solar
Nebula in the Presence of a Planetary Core.” Icarus, volume 22 (1974),
pages 416-425.

Persson, S. E., and J. A. Frogel. “1.2 » to 3.5 « Photometry of Eight Optical
H II Regions.” Publications of the Astronomical Society of the Pacific,
volume 86 (1974), pages 985-988.

Petrasso, R. D., S. W. Kahler, A. S. Krieger, J. K. Silk, and G. S. Vaiana. “The
Location of the Site of Energy Release in an X-Ray Sub-Flare.” [Abstract]
Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society, volume 7 (1975), page 352.

Peytremann, E., and R. J. Davis. “Ultraviolet Television Data from the Orbit-
ing Astronomical Observatory. II. Stellar Ultraviolet Colors and Interstellar
Extinction.” Astrophysical Journal Supplement, volume 28 (1974), pages
211-246.

Podolak, M., and A. G. W. Cameron. “Further Investigations of Jupiter
Models.” Icarus, volume 25 (1975), pages 627-634.

. “Models of the Giant Planets.” Icarus, volume 22 (1974), pages 123-148.

. “Possible Formation of Meteoritic Chondrules and Inclusions in the
Pre-Collapse Jovian Protoplanetary Atmosphere.” Icarus, volume 23 (1974),
pages 326-333.

Porter, N. A., T. Delaney, and T. C. Weekes. “Observations of the Crab
Pulsar with a Wide Angle Atmospheric Cherenkov System.” In The Con-
text and Status of Gamma-Ray Astronomy, Ninth ESLAB Symposium,
edited by B. G. Taylor, pages 295-299. Noordwijk, The Netherlands: ESRO
Scientific and Technical Branch, 1974.

Reeves, E. M., P. V. Foukal, M. C. E. Huber, R. W. Noyes, E. J. Schmahl,
J. G. Timothy, J. E. Vernazza, and G. L. Withbroe. “Solar EUV Photo-
electric Observations from Skylab.” In Coronal Disturbances, edited by
G. Newkirk, pages 497-500. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing
Company, 1974.

Roig, R., and M. H. Miller. “Relative Transition Probabilities of Cobalt.”
Journal of the Optical Society of America, volume 64 (1974), pages 1479-
1483.

Romanowicz, B. A. “On the Tesseral-Harmonics Resonance Problem in Arti-
ficial-Satellite Theory.” Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory Special
Report number 365 (March 1975).

Rybicki, G., and P. Harrison. ‘Wiener Filtering of Sampled Astronomical
Spectra.” [Abstract] Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society, volume
6 (1974), page 306.

Ryder, G. “A Rationale for the Origins of Massif Anorthosites.” Lithos, vol-
ume 7 (1974), pages 139-146.

Salisbury, W. W., and D. H. Menzel. “Gyron Field-Gravitational Analogue of
Magnetic Force.” Nature, volume 252 (1974), pages 664-665.

Schild, R. E. and F. H. Chaffee. “The Balmer Discontinuities of O9-B2 Super-
giants.” Astrophysical Journal, volume 196 (1975), pages 503-513.

Schmahl, E. J. “Eruptive Prominences in the EUV: Observations with the
Harvard Spectrometer on ATM.” [Abstract] Bulletin of the American Astro-
nomical Society, volume 7 (1975), page 348.

Schmahl, E. J., P. V. Foukal, M. C. E. Huber, R. W. Noyes, E. M. Reeves, J. G.
Timothy, J. E. Vernazza, and G. L. Withbroe. “Solar Prominences in the
Extreme Ultraviolet as Observed from the Apollo Telescope Mount.” Solar
Physics, volume 39 (1974), pages 337-347.

Schnopper, H. W., and J. P. Delvaille. “Radiative Electron Capture and Brems-
strahlung.”” Physica Fennica, volume 9 (1974), pages 19-21.

. “Radiative Electron Capture and Bremsstrahlung.” In Atomic Colli-

408 / Smithsonian Year 1975
sions in Solids, edited by S. Datz, B. R. Appleton, and C. D. Moak, pages
481-498. New York: Plenum Press, 1975.

Schwartz, D. “Comments on the Diffuse X-Ray Background: 2-82 keV.” In
International Conference on X-Rays in Space, edited by D. Venkatesan,
pages 1096-1120. Calgary, Canada: University of Calgary, 1975.

. “Can the Constraint of Finite Mass Smooth Fluctuations in the Back-

ground Radiation?” Astrophysical Journal (Letters), volume 194 (1974),

pages L139-L142.

. “Geomagnetic Background Events Observed by Uhuru.” In Particle
Contamination of Low Energy X-Ray Astronomy Experiments, edited by
S. Holt. Goddard Space Flight Center Publication No. X-661—74-130, pages
131-148. 1974.

Schwartz, D., and H. Gursky. “The Cosmic X-Ray Background.” In X-Ray
Astronomy, edited by R. Giacconi and H. Gursky, pages 359-388. Dordrecht,
Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1974.

Schwartz, D. A., and L. E. Peterson. “The Spectrum of Diffuse Cosmic X-Rays
Observed by OSO-3 between 7 and 100 keV.” Astrophysical Journal, volume
190 (1974), pages 297-303.

Sekanina, Z. “On the Nature of the Anti-Tail of Comet Kohoutek (1973f). I.
A Working Model.” Icarus, volume 23 (1974), pages 502-518.

. “A Study of the Icy Tails of the Distant Comets.” Icarus, volume 25
(1975), pages 218-239.

Shaffer, D. B., and G. A. Shields. “A Search for Additional Radio Sources in
the Kukarkin Variable Star Catalog.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters),
volume 192 (1974), pages L83-L84.

Shields, G. A. “Composition Gradients across Spiral Galaxies.” Astrophysical
Journal volume 193 (1974), pages 335-341.

. “The Underabundance of Gaseous Iron in the Planetary Nebula NGC
7027.” Astrophysical Journal, volume 195 (1975), pages 475-478.

Shields, G. A., and J. B. Oke. “The Emission-Line Spectrum of NGC 1068.”
Astrophysical Journal, volume 197 (1975), pages 5-16.

Silk, J. K., S. W. Kahler, A. S. Krieger, and G. S. Vaiana. “Time Changes in
the Structure and Spectrum of an X-Ray Flare.” [Abstract] Bulletin of the
American Astronomical Society, volume 7 (1975), page 355.

Simon, G. W., P. H. Seagraves, R. Tousey, J. D. Purcell, and R. W. Noyes.
“Observed Heights of EUV Lines formed in the Transition Zone and
Corona. II: NRL Rocket Observations.” Solar Physics, volume 39 (1974),
pages 121-128.

Sistla, G., G. Kojoian, and E. J. Chaisson. “Radio Continuum Measurements
of Planetary Nebulae at 15.5 GHz.” Astrophysical Journal, volume 192
(1974), pages 165-168.

Slowey, J. W. “Earth Radiation Pressure and the Determination of Density
from Satellite Drag.” In Space Research XIV, edited by M. J. Rycroft and
R. D. Reasenberg, pages 143-149. Berlin: Akademie-Verlag, 1974.

. “Systematic Winds at Heights between 350 and 675 km from Analysis
of the Orbits of Four Balloon Satellites.” Planetary and Space Science,
volume 23 (1975), pages 879-886.

Sprott, G. F., H. V. Bradt, G. W. Clark, W. H. G. Lewin, and H. W. Schnopper.
“Limit on X-Ray Emission from a Supernova During Maximum Light.”
Astrophysical Journal, volume 191 (1974), pages 739-742.

Steinbrunn, F., and E. L. Fireman. “Titanium Spallation Cross Section between
30 and 584 MeV and Ar? Activities on the Moon.” In Proceedings of the
Fifth Lunar Science Conference, Geochimica et Cosmochimica Acta, supple-
ment 5, volume 2, pages 2205-2209. New York: Pergamon Press, 1974.

Stephens, T. L., and A. Dalgarno. “Long Range Interactions of Excited Hydro-
gen Atoms.” Molecular Physics, volume 28 (1974), pages 1049-1059.

Appendix 7. Publications of the Staff / 409
Stewart, R. F. “Static Polarizabilities of the Ne, Mg and Ar Isoelectronic Se-
quences.” Molecular Physics, volume 29 (1975), pages 787-792.

. “A Time-Dependent Hartree-Fock Study of the Neon Isoelectronic

Sequence.” Molecular Physics, volume 29 (1975), pages 1577-1584.

. “Time-Dependent Hartree-Fock Theory for Three- and Four-Electron
Atom Systems.” Journal of Physics B: Atomic and Molecular Physics,
volume 8 (1975), pages 1-10.

Stoeser, D. B., Ursula B. Marvin, and Janice Bower. “Petrology and Petro-
genesis of Boulder 1.” In Interdisciplinary Studies of Samples from Boulder
1, Station 2, Apollo 17. Compilation of the Studies of Consortium Indom-
itabile, volume 2, pages III-1 to III-51. 1974.

Stoeser, D. B., G. Ryder, and Ursula B. Marvin. “Lunar Granite Clasts with
Unique Ternary Feldspars.” [Abstract] In Lunar Science VI, pages 780-782.
Houston, Texas: Lunar Science Institute, 1975.

Stoeser, D. B., R. W. Wolfe, Ursula B. Marvin, J. A. Wood, and J. B. Bower.
“Petrology of a Stratified Boulder from South Massif, Taurus-Littrow.” In
Proceedings of the Fifth Lunar Science Conference, Geochimica et Cosmo-
chimica Acta, supplement 5, volume 1, pages 355-377. New York: Pergamon
Press, 1974.

Tilmann, S. E., S. B. Upchurch, and G. Ryder. “Land Use Site Reconnaissance
by Computer-Assisted Derivative Mapping.” Bulletin of the Geological
Society of America, volume 86 (1975), pages 23-34.

Timothy, J. G. “The Relationship between Coronal Bright Points and the
Chromospheric Network.” [Abstract] Bulletin of the American Astronomical
Society, volume 7 (1975), page 350.

Timothy, J. G., R. M. Chambers, A. M. d’Entremont, N. W. Lanham, and
E. M. Reeves. “A Sounding Rocket Spectroheliometer for Photometric
Studies at Extreme Ultraviolet Wavelengths.” Space Science Instrumenta-
tion, volume 1 (1975), pages 23-49.

Timothy, J. G., and E. M. Reeves. “Measurements of the Absolute Solar Flux
at Extreme Ultraviolet Wavelengths from the ATM and ATM Calibration
Rocket Spectroheliometers.” [Abstract] Transactions of the American Geo-
physical Union, volume 56 (1974), page 1156.

Tinsley, B. M., and A. G. W. Cameron. “Possible Influence of Comets on the
Chemical Evolution of the Galaxy.” Astrophysics and Space Science,
volume 31 (1974), pages 31-35.

Traub, W. A., and N. P. Carleton. “Observations of O,, H,O and HD in
Planetary Atmospheres.” Exploration of the Planetary System, edited by
A. Woszczyk, and C. Iwaniszewska-Lubienska, pages 223-228. Dordrecht,
Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1974.

. “Observations of Spatial and Temporal Variations of the Jovian H,

Quadrupole Lines.” [Abstract] Bulletin of the American Astronomical So-

ciety, volume 6 (1974), page 376.

. “A Search for H,O and CH, in Comet Kohoutek.” Icarus, volume 23

(1974), pages 585-589; [Abstract] Bulletin of the American Astronomical

Society, volume 6 (1974), page 389.

. “Spectroscopic Observations of Winds on Venus.” Journal of the
Atmospheric Sciences, volume 32 (1975), pages 1045-1059.

Trombka, J. I., E. L. Eller, R. L. Schmadebeck, I. Adler, A. E. Metzger, D. Gil-
man, P. Gorenstein, and P. Bjorkholm. “Observation of a Cosmic-Ray Burst
on Apollo 16. II. X-Ray Time Profile and Source Location.” Astrophysical
Journal (Letters), volume 194 (1974), pages L27-L33.

Ulmer, M. P. “Galactic X-Ray Sources.” International Conference on X-Rays
in Space, edited by D. Venkatesan, pages 128-146. Calgary, Canada: Uni-
versity of Calgary, 1975.

. “Gamma-Ray Bursts.” International Conference on X-Rays in Space,

410 / Smithsonian Year 1975
edited by D. Venkatesan, pages 163-171. Calgary, Canada: University of

Calgary, 1975.

. “Observations of Six Binary X-Ray Sources with the UCSD OSO-7
X-Ray Telescope.” Astrophysical Journal, volume 196 (1975), pages 827-835.

Ulmer, M. P., W. A. Baity, W. A. Wheaton, and L. E. Peterson. “Upper Limit
to the X-Ray Flux from the Supernova in NGC 5253 above 7 keV from
the OSO-7.” Astrophysical Journal, volume 193 (1974), pages 535-537.

Van Biesbroeck, G., C. D. Vesely, and B. G. Marsden. “Observations of
Comets and Minor Planets.” Astronomical Journal, volume 80 (1975), pages
246-251.

. “Orbit of Comet 1911 VI (Quénisset).” Astronomical Journal, volume
79 (1974), pages 1455-1456.

Van Speybroeck, L. P. “Recent Progress in X-Ray Telescopes at AS&E.” In
Proceedings of the X-Ray Optics Symposium, edited by P. W. Sanford,
pages 31-68. University College, London: Mullard Space Science Laboratory,
1975.

Vernazza, J. E. ““Time Variations in the EUV Line Emission from the Chromo-
sphere and Corona.” [Abstract] Bulletin of the American Astronomical
Society, volume 7 (1975), page 365.

Victor, G. A., and D. B. Slavsky. “Van der Waals Coefficients for Be and Mg.”
Journal of Chemical Physics, volume 61 (1974), pages 3484-3485.

Walker, J. C. G., D. G. Torr, P. B. Hays, D. W. Rusch, K. Docken, G. Victor,
and M. Oppenheimer. “Metastable 2P Oxygen Ions in the Daytime Thermo-
sphere.” Journal of Geophysical Research, volume 80 (1975), pages 1026—
1029.

Walker, R. C., K. Y. Lo, B. F. Burke, J. M. Moran, and K. J. Johnston. “VLBI
Observations of Cygnus A.” [Abstract] Bulletin of the American Astro-
nomical Society, volume 6 (1974), page 461.

Ward, W. R. “Climatic Variations on Mars. 1. Astronomical Theory of Insola-
tion.” Journal of Geophysical Research, volume 79 (1974), pages 3375-3386.

. “Tidal Friction and Generalized Cassini’s Laws in the Solar System.”
Astronomical Journal, volume 80 (1975), pages 64-70.

Ward, W. R., B. C. Murray, and M. C. Malin. “Climatic Variations on Mars.
2. Evolution of ‘Carbon Dioxide Atmosphere and Polar Caps.” Journal of
Geophysical Research, volume 79 (1974), pages 3387-3395.

Weekes, T. C., and N. A. Porter. “Antineutrino Bursts and Cosmic-Ray Air
Shower Experiments.” [Letter] Astronomy and Astrophysics, volume 37
(1974), pages 447-449.

Weekes, T. C., and G. H. Rieke. “The Atmospheric Cherenkov Technique for
Gamma-Ray Astronomy.” In The Context and Status of Gamma-Ray As-
tronomy, Ninth ESLAB Symposium, edited by B. G. Taylor, pages 287-293.
Noordwijk, The Netherlands: ESRO Scientific and Technical Branch, 1974.

Wheeler, J. C., and A. G. W. Cameron. “The Effect of Primordial Hydrogen/
Helium Fractionation on the Solar Neutrino Flux.” Astrophysical Journal,
volume 196 (1975), pages 601-605.

Wheeler, J. C., C. F. McKee, and M. Lecar. “Neutron Stars in Close Binary
Systems.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters), volume 192 (1974), pages L71-L74.

Whipple, F. L. “Do Comets Play a Role in Galactic Chemistry and y-Ray
Bursts?” [Abstract] Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society, volume
7 (1975), page 343.

. “On the Splitting of New Comets.” [Abstract] Bulletin of the Ameri-
can Astronomical Society, volume 6 (1974), page 389.

Whitney, C. A. Whitney’s Star Finder. New York: Alfred Knopf, 1974.

Williamson, M. R., and E. M. Gaposchkin. “The Estimates of 550 km X 550
km Mean Gravity Anomalies.” Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory
Special Report, number 363 (February 1975).

Willson, R. F., and E. J. Chaisson. “Radiofrequency Observations of the

Appendix 7. Publications of the Staff / 411
Trifid Nebula.” [Abstract] Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society,
volume 6 (1974), page 350.

Withbroe, G. L., and D. T. Jaffe. “Polar Transients Observed in the EUV.”
[Abstract] Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society, volume 7 (1975),
page 354.

Wright, F. W. “An Identification Atlas of the Small Magellanic Cloud.” [Ab-
stract] Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society, volume 6 (1974),
page 462.

Wood, J. A. “Lunar Petrogenesis in a Well-Stirred Magma Ocean.” In Lunar
Science VI, pages 881-883. Houston, Texas: Lunar Science Institute, 1975.

Wright, F. W., and P. W. Hodge. “New Variable Stars in the Small Magel-
lanic Cloud.” Astronomical Journal, volume 79 (1974), page 1369.

Zeilik, M. Film Notes for Explorations in Space and Time. Boston, Houghton
Mifflin Company, 1974.

. “A PSI Astronomy Course.” American Journal of Physics, volume 42

(1974), 1095-1100.

. “PSI Astronomy Unit—Astrology: The Space Age Science?” Ameri-
can Journal of Physics, volume 42 (1974), pages 538-542.

Zeilik, II, M., and R. J. Bieniek. “PSI Astronomy at Harvard.” [Abstract]
Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society, volume 6 (1974), page 331.

Zeilik, M., II, and C. J. Lada. “H 92a Recombination Line Observations of
M16.” Astronomical Journal, volume 79 (1974), pages 786-790.

Zeilik, M., II, and E. L. Wright. “Infrared Photometry of Comet Kohoutek.”
Icarus, volume 23 (1974), pages 577-579.

Zuckerman, B., B. E. Turner, D. R. Johnson, F. O. Clark, F. J. ‘Lovas, N.
Fourikis, P. Palmer, M. Morris, A. E. Lilley, J. A. Ball, C. A. Gottlieb, M. M.
Litvak, and H. Penfield. “Detection of Interstellar Trans-Ethyl Alcohol.”
Astrophysical Journal (Letters), volume 196 (1975), pages L99-L102.

Zuckerman, B., B. E. Turner, D. R. Johnson, FE. ©. Clark, E. Jo Lovas; N:
Fourikis, M. Morris, P. Palmer, C. A. Gottlieb, A. E. Lilley, M. M. Litvak,
and H. Penfield. “Ethyl Alcohol Detected in Interstellar Space.” [Abstract]
Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society, volume 6 (1974), page 443.

SMITHSONIAN TROPICAL RESEARCH INSTITUTE

Abele, Lawrence G. “The Macruran Decapod Crustacea of Malpelo Island.”
In “Biological Investigation of Malpelo Island, Colombia,” edited by J. B.
Graham. Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology, number 176, (1975).

Andrews, Robin (Research Associate) and A. Stanley Rand (Staff). “Reproduc-
tive Effort in Anoline Lizards.” Ecology, volume 55, number 6 (1974), pages
1317-1327.

Bertsch, Hans (Fellow). “Additional Data for Two Dorid Nudibranchs from
the Southern Caribbean Seas.” The Veliger, volume 17, number 4 (1975),
pages 416-417.

Birkeland, Charles (Staff), D. L. Meyer (Staff), J. P. Stames (Staff) and
Caryl L. Buford. “Subtidal Communities of Malpelo Island.” In “Biological
Investigation of Malpelo Island, Colombia,” edited by J. B. Graham. Smith-
sonian Contributions to Zoology, number 176 (1975).

Brattegard, Torleiv. ““Mysidacea from Shallow Water on the Caribbean Coast
of Panama.” Sarsia, volume 57 (1974), pages 87-108.

Croat, Thomas B. “A New Species of Myrcia (Myrtaceae) for Panama.”
Annals of the Missouri Botanical Garden, volume 61, number 3 (1974),
pages 886-888.

. “A Reconsideration of Spondias monbin L. (Anacardiaceae).” Annals
of the Missouri Botanical Garden, volume 61, number 2 (1974), pages 483-
490.

Downey, Maureen E. “Asteroidea from Malpelo Island with Description of a

412 / Smithsonian Year 1975
New Species of the Genus Tamaria.” In “Biological Investigation of Malpelo
Island, Colombia, edited by J. B. Graham. Smithsonian Contributions to
Zoology, number 176 (1975).

Dressler, Robert L. “El Genero Hexisea.” Orquidea, volume 4, number 7
(1974), pages 191-196.

. “The Genus Hexisea.” Orquidea, volume 4, number 7 (1974), pages

197-200.

. “Una Notylia Poco Usual del Peru con Comentarios Sobre Algunas
Especies Afines.” Orquideologia, volume 9 (1974), pages 211-218.

Dressler, Robert L. (Staff) and Glenn E. Pollard. El Género Encyclia en
Mexico. Asociacidn Mexicana de Orquideologia, México, 1974, 158 pages.

Eberhard, Mary Jane West (Research Associate). “The Evolution of Social
Behavior by Kin Selection.” The Quarterly Review of Biology, volume 50,
number 1 (1975), pages 1-33.

Eberhard, William G. (Research Associate). ‘The ‘Inverted Ladder’ Orb Web
Scoloderus sp. and the Intermediate Orb of Eustala (?) sp. Araneae:
Araneidae.” Journal of Natural History, volume 9 (1975), pages 93-106.

Elton, Charles S. “Conservation and the Low Population Density of Inverte-
brates Inside a Neotropical Rain Forest.” Biological Conservation, volume 7
(1975), pages 3-15.

Findley, Lloyd T. “A New Species of Goby from Malpelo Island (Teleostei:
Gobiidea: Chriolepis).” In “Biological Investigation of Malpelo Island,
Colombia,” edited by J. B. Graham. Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology,
number 176 (1975).

Gentry, Alwyn H. “Notes on Panamanian Apocynaceae.” Annals of the
Missouri Botanical Garden, volume 61, number 3 (1974), pages 891-900.

Glynn, Peter “The Impact of Acanthaster on Corals and Coral Reefs in the
Eastern Pacific.” Environmental Conservation, volume 1, number 4 (1974),
pages 295-304.

. “Rolling Stones Among the Scleractinia: Mobile Coraliths in the Gulf
of Panama.” Proceedings of the Second International Symposium on Coral
Reefs, volume 2 (1974), pages 183-198.

Glynn, Peter W. (Staff), D. M. Dexter (Fellow), and T. E. Bowman. “Exciro-
lana braziliensis, a Pan-American Sand Beach Isopod. Taxonomic Status,
Zonation, and Distribution.” Journal of Zoology, London, volume 175 (1975),
pages 211-222.

Glynn, Peter W. (Staff), and C. S. Glynn. “On the Systematics of Ancinus
(Isopoda, Sphaeromatidae) with Description of a New Species from the
Tropical Eastern Pacific.” Pacific Science, volume 28, number 4 (1974), pages
401-422.

Graham, Jeffrey B. “Aquatic Respiration in the Sea Snake Pelamis platurus.”
Respiration Physiology, volume 21 (1974), pages 1-7.

. “Heat Exchange in Yellow Fin (Thunnus albacares) and Skipjack

(Katsuwonus pelamis) Tunas and the Adaptive Significance of Elevated

Body Temperatures in Scombird Fishes.” Fishery Bulletin, volume 73 (1975).

, editor. “Biological Investigation of Malpelo Island, Colombia.”
Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology, number 176 (1975), 98 pages.

Graham, Jeffrey B. (Staff), John H. Gee, and Fred S. Robinson. “Hydrostatic
and Gas Exchange Functions of the Lung of the Sea Snake Pelamis platurus.”
Comparative Biochemistry and Physiology, volume 50A (1975), pages 477—
482.

Haines, Bruce (Fellow). “Impact of Leaf-Cutting Ants on Vegetation Develop-
ment at Barro Colorado Island.” In Tropical Ecological Systems: Trends in
Terrestrial and Aquatic Research, edited by F. B. Golley and Ernesto
Medina. New York: Springer-Verlag, 1975.

Hecht, Max K., Chaim Kropach (Fellow), and Bessie M. Hecht. “Distribution
of the Yellow-Bellied Sea Snake Pelamis platurus and its Significance in

Appendix 7. Publications of the Staff / 413
Relation to the Fossil Record.” Herpetologica, volume 30, number 4 (1974),
pages 387-396.

Karr, James R. (Fellow). “Production, Energy Pathways, and Community Di-
versity in Forest Birds.” In Tropical Ecological Systems: Trends in Terres-
trial and Aquatic Research, edited by F. B. Golley and Ernesto Medina.
New York: Springer-Verlag, 1975.

Linares, Olga F. (Staff), Payson D. Sheets, and E. Jane Rosenthal. “Prehistoric
Agriculture in Tropical Highlands.” Science, volume 187, number 4172
(1975), pages 137-145.

McCosker, John E. (Fellow), and R. H. Rosenblatt. “Fishes Collected at Malpelo
Island.” In “Biological Investigation of Malpelo Island, Colombia,” edited
by J. B. Graham. Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology, number 176 (1975).

Macurda, D. B. and D. L. Meyer (Staff). “The Microstructure of the Crinoid
Endoskeleton.” University of Kansas, Paleontological Contributions, volume
74 (1975), pages 1-22.

Milstead, William W., A. Stanley Rand (Staff), and Margaret M. Stewart.
“Polymorphism in Cricket Frogs: an Hypothesis.” Evolution, volume 28,
number 3 (1974), pages 489-491.

Montgomery, Gerald Gene. “Communication in Red Fox Dyads: a Computer
Simulation Study.” Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology, number 187
(1974).

Montgomery, G. G. and M. E. Sunquist. “Impact of Sloths on Neotropical
Forest Energy Flow and Nutrient Cycling.” In Tropical Ecological Systems:
Trends in Terrestrial and Aquatic Research, edited by F. B. Golley and
Ernesto Medina. New York: Springer-Verlag, 1975.

Morton, Eugene S. (Fellow). “Ecological Sources of edie on Avian
Sounds.” American Naturalist, volume 109, number 965 (1975), pages 17-34.

Muschett Ibarra, Daniel M. “Sobre la Composicidn Quimica y el Aporte
Nutritivo de los Rios y Lluvias Adyacentes al Golfo de Panama.” Thesis,
University of Panama, 1974.

Orians, Gordon, J. L. Apple, Neal G. Smith (Staff), and others. “Tropical
Population Ecology.” In Fragile Ecosystems, edited by E. C. Farnsworth and
F. B. Golley, section 2. New York: Springer-Verlag, 1974.

Porter, James W. (Fellow). “Community Structure of Coral Reefs on Opposite
Sides of the Isthmus of Panama.” Science, volume 186, number 4163 (1974),
pages 543-545.

. “Zooplankton Feeding by the Caribbean Reef-Building Coral Mon-
tastrea cavernosa.” Proceedings of the Second International Symposium on
Coral Reefs, volume 1 (1974), pages 111-124.

Ricklefs, Robert E. “Energetics of Reproduction in Birds.” In “Avian Ener-
getics,” edited by R. A. Paynter. Publications of the Nuttall Ornithological
Club, number 15 (1974), pages 152-297.

Roberts, John L. and Jeffrey B. Graham (Staff). “Swimming and Body Tem-
perature of Mackerel.” American Zoologist, volume 14, number 4 (1974),
page 125.

Robinson, Michael H. “The Evolution of Predatory Behavior in Araneid
Spiders.” In Festschrift for N. Tinbergen F. R. S., pages 292-312. Oxford:
Clarendon Press, 1975.

Robinson, Michael H. (Staff) and Barbara Robinson (Research Associate).
“Adaptive Complexity: the Thermoregulatory Postures of the Golden-web
Spider Nephila clavipes at Low Latitudes.” American Midland Naturalist,
volume 92, number 2 (1974), pages 386-396.

Rubinoff, Roberta W., editor. “Environmental Monitoring and Baseline Data;
Tropical Studies.” (Compiled under the Smithsonian Institution Environ-
mental Science Program.) Washington: Smithsonian Institution, 1974, 465

pages.

414 / Smithsonian Year 1975
Smith, Alan P. “Bud Temperature in Relation to Nyctinastic Leaf Movement
in an Andean Giant Rosette Plant.” Biotropica, volume 6, number 4 (1974),
pages 263-266.

Smith, Neal Griffith. “Reproductive Behaviour.” Encyclopedia Britannica,
fifteenth edition. 1974, volume 15, pages 679-690.

. “Spshing Noise’: Biological Significance of its Attraction and Non-
attraction by Birds.” Proceedings of the -National Academy of Sciences,
volume 72, number 4 (1975), pages 1411-1414.

Vollrath, Evelyn. “Barro Colorado Island—eine Biologische Forschungs-station
in Panama.” Zeitschrift fiir Kélner Zoo, volume 109, number 3 (1974),
pages 87-94.

Warner, Robert R. (Fellow). “The Adaptive Significance of Sequential Her-
maphroditism in Animals.” American Naturalist, volume 109, number 965
(1975), pages 61-82.

. “The Reproductive Biology of the Protogynous Hermaphrodite Pime-
lometopon pulchrum (Pisces: Labridae).” Fishery Bulletin, volume 73 (1975),
pages 262-281.

Zaret, Thomas M. and W. Charles Kerfoot. “Fish Predation on Bosmina
longirostris: Body-Size Selection versus Visibility Selection.” Ecology,
volume 56, number 1 (1975), pages 232-237.

HISTORY AND ART

ARCHIVES OF AMERICAN ART

Brown, Robert, editor. History of Easton, Massachusetts, 1886-1974. volume 2.

Karlstrom, Paul. “California and the Archives of American Art.” Los Angeles
Institute of Contemporary Art Journal. December 1974.

McCoy, Garnett. [Review] A New Deal for Artists, by Richard McKinzie,
Art for the Millions, by Francis O’Connor. American Historical Review,
April 1975.

COOPER-HEWITT MUSEUM

Department of Drawings and Prints

Dee, Elaine. (Article on Winslow Homer exhibition in London.) The Antique
Collector.

Textile Department

Sonday, Milton. [Review] Sprang, by Peter Collingwood, Craft Horizons,
December 1974.

Wallpaper Collection

Frangiamore, Catherine. “From the Cooper-Hewitt Collections: Evidence
about Wallpapers Used in America.” In Catalogue, Delaware Antiques
Show, Delaware, December 5-7, 1974.

. “Rescuing Historic Wallpaper: Identification, Preservation, Restora-

tion.” [Technical Leaflet] History News (Nashville, Tenn.: The American

Association for State and Local History), volume 29 (July 1974), number 7.

. “Wallpaper: Technological Innovations and Changes in Design and

Use.” In Technological Innovation and the Decorative Arts, Winterthur

Conference Report, 1973, edited by IMG Quimby and Polly Anne Earle,

pages 277-305. Charlottesville: The University Press of Virginia, 1974.

Appendix 7. Publications of the Staff / 415
PREERNG ALLE RY TOE eA:

Atil, Esin. Art of the Arab World. Washington, D. C.: Freer Gallery of Art,
Smithsonian Institution, 1975. 154 pages, 106 illustrations.

. “Islamic Ceramics.” al-Majal, number 59, 1974, pages 18-20 (in

Arabic).

. “Heritage of Islam.” Pegasus, volume IX (1975), pages 46-53.

, translator. Turkish Miniature Painting, by N. Atasoy and F. Cagman,
Istanbul, 1974.

Chase, W. Thomas, III. “Comparative Analysis of Archaeological Bronzes,”
Chapter 9 in Archaeological Chemistry. American Chemical Society, Ad-
vances in Chemistry Series, No. 138 (1974). Washington, D. C., 1974.

Winter, John. “Preliminary Investigations on Chinese Ink in Far Eastern
Paintings.” In Archaeological Chemistry, edited by C. W. Beck. American
Chemical Society, Advances in Chemistry Series 138 (1974), pages 207-225.

HIRSHHORN MUSEUM AND SCULPTURE GARDEN

Garson, Inez. Willem de Kooning at the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture
Garden. New York: Scala, 1974.

Gettings, Frank. Introduction to Urban Explorations: Paintings and Drawings
by Peter Passuntino. Exhibition catalogue. Trenton: New Jersey State
Museum, March 15—April 27, 1975.

McCabe, Cynthia J. Henry Moore at the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture
Garden. New York: Scala, 1974.

. Sculptors and Their Drawings: Selections from the Hirshhorn Museum
and Sculpture Garden. Exhibition catalogue, 15 pages, 24 illustrations.
Austin, Texas: Lyndon Baines Johnson Library, October 4, 1974—-January 5,
1975.

Millard, Charles W., III “Baron Gros’ Portrait of Lieutenant Legrand.” Los
Angeles Museum of Art Bulletin, volume 20, number 2 (1974), pages 36-45.

. “A Chronology for Van Gogh’s Drawings of 1888.” Master Drawings,

Summer 1974, pages 156-165.

. “Jules Olitski.” Hudson Review, Autumn 1974, pages 401-408.

. “Los Angeles Seen by Reyner Banham. “Art International, December

15, 1974, pages 36-37.

. “Photography’s Problems.” Hudson Review, Winter 1974-75, pages
577-581.

Rosenzweig, Phyllis. Thomas Eakins at the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture
Garden. New York: Scala, 1974.

Ultan, Roslye B. “Women in the Hirshhorn.” Womansphere, volume 1,
number 1 (April-May 1975).

Zilczer, Judith K. “The Aesthetic Struggle in America, 1910-1925: Abstract
Art and Theory in the Stieglitz Circle.” Ph.D. dissertation, University of
Delaware, 1975.

. “Modern Art and Its Sources: Exhibitions in New York, 1910-1925.

A Selective Checklist,” In Avant-Garde Painting and Sculpture in America

1910-1925. Wilmington: Delaware Art Museum, 1975.

JOSEPH HENRY PAPERS

Aldrich, Michele L. “John Strong Newberry,” Dictionary of Scientific Biogra-
phy, edited by Charles Gillispie, volume 10, page 32-33. New York: Charles
Scribner’s Sons, 1974.

. “United States: Bibliographical Essay,” The Comparative Reception

of Darwinism, edited by Thomas Glick, pages 207-226. Austin, Texas:

University of Texas Press, 1974.

”

416 / Smithsonian Year 1975

NATIONAL COLLECTION OF FINE ARTS

BOOKS

Bermingham, Peter. American Art in the Barbizon Mood. Washington, D. C.:
Smithsonian Institution Press. January 1975, 192 pages, 166 black and
white illustrations, 4 color plates.

Fink, Lois M. and Joshua C. Taylor. Academy: The Academic Tradition in
American Art. Washington, D. C.: Smithsonian Institution Press. June 1975,
272 pages, 214 black and white illustrations, 1 color plate.

Taylor, Joshua C. To See is to Think: Looking at American Art. Washington,
D. C.: Smithsonian Institution Press. June 1975, 117 pages, 94 illustrations.

ARTICLES

Breeskin, Adelyn D. Introduction to checklist Ilya Bolotowsky. Exhibition
pamphlet. December 1974.

. Introduction to Ilya Bolotowsky. Exhibition catalogue. The Solomon

R. Guggenheim Foundation. December 1974.

. Foreword to Pennsylvania Academy Moderns. 1910-1940. Exhibition
catalogue. May 1975.

Fisher, Fred. Essay in A Future for Our Past: The Conservation of Art. Ex-
hibition catalogue. June 1974.

Hentzschel, Lois. Essay in A Future for Our Past: The Conservation of Art.
Exhibition catalogue. June 1974.

Herman, Lloyd. A Modern Consciousness: D. J. De Pree and Florence Knoll.
Exhibition Catalogue. June 1975, 48 pages, 30 illustrations.

Lewton, Val E. “Museum Security: Now You See It Now You Don’t.” Wash-
ington Review of the Arts. Volume 1, number 1 (May-June 1975).

McClelland, Donald. Introduction to Lithographs by Emil Weddige. Exhibition
Catalogue. Birmingham, Michigan: Birmingham Gallery, March 1975.

Murray, Richard. Art for Architecture: Washington, D. C., 1895-1925. Ex-
hibition publication. June 1975.

Ratzenberger, Katharine. [Review] Artists USA 1974-1975: A Guide to Con-
temporary American Art, and Canadian Artists in Exhibition 1973-1974.
Art Libraries Society of North America Newsletter, volume 3, number 3
(April 1975).

Taylor, Joshua C. “The Art Museum In The United States.” In On Under-
standing Art Museums. American Assembly, November 1974.

Foreword to Boxes and Bowls: Decorated Containers by Nineteenth-

Century Haida, Tlingit, Bella Bella, and Tsimshian Indian Artists. Exhibition

catalogue. November 1974.

Foreword to Chaim Gross: Sculpture and Drawings. Exhibition

catalogue. September 1974.

Foreword to Made in Chicago. Exhibition catalogue. October 1974.

. Essay in Pennsylvania Academy Moderns. Exhibition catalogue. May
1975.

Taylor, Joshua C., and John G. Lorenz. Foreword to Catalogue of the 24th
National Exhibition of Prints. Washington, D. C.: Library of Congress, May
1975.

Truettner, William H. Introduction to Horatio Shaw (1847-1918) Exhibition
catalogue. August 1974.

. Essay in Frontier America: The Far West. Exhibition catalogue. Boston
Museum of Fine Arts, January 1975.

Walker, William B. “Art Books and Periodicals: Dewey and LC.” Library
Trends. Special issue on “Music and Fine Arts in the General Library”
(January 1975).

Appendix 7. Publications of the Staff / 417
Zabel, Barbara, Editorial Advisor. Modern Sculpture; The New Old Masters,
by H. C. Merillat. New York: Dodd, Mead and Company, 1974.

. “Louis Lozowick and Urban Optimisim of the 1920s.” Archives of

American Art Journal, Spring 1975.

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF HISTORY AND TECHNOLOGY
BOOKS AND MONOGRAPHS

Ahlborn, Richard Eighme. The Sculpted Saints of A Borderland Mission: Los
Bultos de San Xavier del Bac. Tucson, Arizona: Southwestern Mission Re-
search Center, Inc., 1974, 124 pages, 150 illustrations.

Clain-Stefanelli, Elvira, and Vladimir Clain-Stefanelli. The Beauty and Lore
of Coins, Medals and Paper Money. New York: Riverwood Publishers, 1974,
256 pages.

Fesperman, John T. Two Essays on Organ Design. Raleigh: Sunbury Press,
1975, 125 pages.

Gardner, Paul V., Paul N. Perrot and James S. Plant. Steuben, Seventy Years
of American Glassmaking. New York: Praeger Publishers Inc., 1974, 172
pages.

Hindle, Brooke. Introduction to Benjamin Henry Latrobe & Moncure Robinson:
The Engineer as Agent of Technological Transfer, 5 pages. Wilmington,
Delaware: Eleutherian Mills Historical Library, 1975.

Hollis, Helen R. The Piano: A Pictorial Account of Its Ancestry and Develop-
ment. England: David & Charles, Ltd., 1975, 120 pages, 101 illustrations.
Hoover, Cynthia A., editor. A Checklist of Keyboard Instruments at the
Smithsonian Institution, second edition. Washington, D. C.: Smithsonian

Institution Press, 1975, 87 pages.

. Contribution in A Survey of Musical Instrument Collections in the
United States and Canada. Ann Arbor, Michigan: Music Library Association,
1974.

Kidwell, Claudia B., and Margaret C. Christman. Suiting Everyone: The
Democratization of Clothing in America. Washington, D. C.: Smithsonian
Institution Press, 1974, 208 pages, 338 figures.

Klapthor, Margaret B. Official White House China: 1789 to Present. Wash-
ington, D. C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1975. 283 pages, 90 color plates,
78 black and white illustrations.

, Herbert R. Collins, Edith P. Mayo, and Peggy M. Sawyer. We the
People. Exhibition guide. Washington, D. C.: Smithsonian Institution Press,
1975, 162 pages.

Langley, Harold D. Roosevelt and Churchill: Their Secret Wartime Corres-
pondence. New York: Saturday Review Press—Dutton, 1975, 805 pages.

. To Utah With the Dragoons, and Glimpses of Life in Arizona and
California, 1858-1859. Salt Lake City: The University of Utah Press, 1975,
230 pages.

Lundeberg, Philip K. Samuel Colt’s Submarine Battery: The Secret and the
Enigma. Washington, D. C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1974, 90 pages.

Miller, J. Jefferson, II. English Yellow Glazed Earthenware. London: Barrie &
Jenkins; Washington, D. C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1974. 125 pages,
64 color plates, 74 black and white illustrations.

Schlebecker, John T. Whereby We Thrive: A History of American Farming,
1607-1972. Ames: Iowa State University Press, 1975. 350 pages, 51
illustrations.

Watkins, C. Malcolm “Homeland and Handwork.” Chapter 1 in The Crafts-
man in America, pages 8-27. Washington, D. C.: The National Geographic
Society, 1975.

418 / Smithsonian Year 1975
;

ARTICLES, PAPERS, AND DRAWINGS

Battison, Edwin A. “Phase Two of the Industrial Revolution: Interchangeable
Manufacture of Arms.” Proceedings of the XIII International Congress for
the History of Science, Section XI, Moscow, U.S.S.R., 1974, pages 11-15.

Bedini, Silvio A., and L. Reti. “Horology.” In The Unknown Leonardo, pages
240-263. New York: McGraw-Hill Book Co., 1974.

Boorstin, Daniel J. Foreword to Technology and the Frontiers of Knowledge,
pages vii-ix. The Frank Nelson Doubleday Lectures, 1972-73. Garden City,
New York: Doubleday & Co., 1975.

. “Political Revolutions and Revolutions in Science and Technology.”

In America’s Continuing Revolution: an Act of Conservation, pages 161-—

180. Washington, D. C.: American Enterprise Institute for Public Research,

1975.

. “Democratizing the American Diet.” America Illustrated, (Russian

language periodical published by U. S. Information Agency, Washington,

D. C.), number 214 (August 1974), pages 33-35.

. “Overcommunication: Are We Talking Too Much?” New York Times,
July 7, 1974, pages 1-6.

Bruns, Franklin R., Jr. “A Rainbow World.” Pictorial Treasury of U.S. Stamps,
pages 22-25. Collectors Institute.

. Stamp (and coin) weekly syndicated columns, July 7, 1974-June 28,
1975, in the Washington Post, Washington, D.C.; Inquirer, Philadelphia,
Pa.; Post, Denver, Colo.; Times, St. Petersburg, Fla.; Democrat-Chronicle,
Rochester, N.Y.; Post-Standard, Syracuse, N.Y.; Times-Union, Albany, N.Y.;
Star-Ledger, Newark, N.J.; and Patriot-News, Harrisburg, Pa.

Collins, Herbert R. “Brief History of Caroline County.” Fredericksburg Times,
volume 1 (September 1974), pages 23-25.

. “The Candidate Can Target: Attempts on the Lives of Presidential

Hopefuls.” The Standard, Summer 1974, page 15.

. “A Defeated Candidate, A Lost Symbol.” The Standard, Autumn and

Winter 1974-1975, pages 12-16.

. “George Armistead At Fort McHenry, 1814.” Caroline Historical

Society Newsletter, Bowling Green, Virginia, page 4.

. “Men of The Revolution.” Caroline Historical Society Bulletin, volume
4 (1974), pages 5-8.

Cooper, Grace R. “American Textiles in the Nineteenth Century.” The En-
cyclopaedia of Victoriana, London: George Rainbird Limited, 1975, 2,000
words, illustrated.

Davis, Audrey B. “The Dentist and His Tools.” Washington, D. C.: Smith-
sonian Institution Press, 1974, pages 1-12.

. “The Emergence of American Dental Medicine: The Relation of the
Maxillary Antrum to Focal Infection.” Texas Reports on Biology and
Medicine, volume 32 (Spring 1974), pages 141-156.

Forman, Paul. “Industrial Support and Political Alignments of the German
Physicists in the Weimar Republic,” In Industrielles System und politische
Entwicklung in der Weimarer Republic, pages 716-731. Dusseldorf: Droste,
1974.

. “Ornstein, Leonard Salomon.” In Dictionary of Scientific Biography,

volume 10, pages 235-236. New York: Scribners, 1975.

. “Paschen, Friedrich.” In Dictionary of Scientific Biography, volume 10,
pages 345-350. New York: Scribners, 1975.

Golovin, Anne C. “Cabinetmakers and Chairmakers of Washington, D. C.,
1791-1840.” Antiques, volume 107, number 5 (May, 1975), pages 898—
922.

Harris, Elizabeth M. Etching as a Painter’s Medium in the 1880's. Exhibition
guide. Washington, D. C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1974, 4 pages.

Appendix 7. Publications of the Staff / 419
Lundeberg, Philip K. “Information Retrieval within Museums.” The Pro-
ceedings of the First International Congress of Maritime Museums, 1972,
London: National Maritime Museum, 1974, pages 79-84.

. “The Museum Perspective.” Military Affairs, volume 38 (1974), pages

114-116, 159-160.

. “Sea Mines in the Defense of Kiel, 1848-1849.” In Seemacht und
Geschichte: Festschrift .. . Friedrich Ruge. Bonn: Deutsches Marine Institut,
1974.

Marzio, Peter C. Mr. Audubon and Mr. Bien: An Early Phase in the History
of American Chromolithography. Exhibition guide, Washington, D. C.:
Smithsonian Institution Press, 1975, 16 pages.

Klapthor, Margaret B. “Inauguration of a President.” In Dictionary of Ameri-
can History. New York: Charles Scribner’s Sons, 1975.

Merzbach, Uta C. “La Macchina di Scheutz a le Sue Vicende in Europa.” In
Scheutz: La Macchina alle Differenze, ed. M. G. Losano. Milan: Etas Libri,
1974.

Murray, Anne W. “Dress: Colonial America.” Encyclopaedia Britannica,
fifteenth edition. 1974, pages 1029-1030.

. “From Breeches to Sherryvallies.” Waffenund Kostumkunde. Zeit-
schrift der Gesellschaft fur historische Waffen-und Kostumkunde. Pages
87-106. Jahrgang 1974/Sonderdruck. (Printed in English.)

Norby, Reidar. “Denmark’s Mail from 1624—Year by Year.” Scandinavian
Scribe, volume 11, number 3 (March 1975), pages 35-38, 44-46. Translation
and arrangement from Danish original.

. “Denmark’s 350-Year Postal Service.” Scandinavian Scribe, volume 11,

number 2 (February 1975), pages 19-21, 28-30. Translation and arrangement

from Danish original.

“Norge: Vapenutgaven 1863/66—Bare en originaltegning for alle

verdier!” Frimerke Forum (Oslo, Norway), volume 5 (1974), number 2,

pages 27-42; number 3, pages 31-38; number 4, pages 36-45; volume 6

(1975), number 1, pages 38-43.

. “The Scandinavian Stamp Lexicon”. Scandinavian Scribe, volume 10,

numbers 7-11 (1974), pages 103-06, 119-22, 135-38, 149-52, 165-68; volume

11, numbers 1-5 (1975), pages 7-10, 23-26, 39-42, 53-54, 59-60) 71-74.

. “Scandinavian Varieties” Scandinavian Scribe, volume 10 (1974), pages
110, 126, 142, 164; volume 11 (1975), pages 12, 31, 47, 63, 78.

Odell, J. Scott, and Sheridan Germann, “An Andreas Ruckers Quint Virginal
of 1620” Full-sized technical drawing available in paper or mylar print from
National Museum of History and Technology, Division of Musical
Instruments.

Odell, J. Scott, and Norman Sohl, “An Anonymous Fretless Banjo from
North Carolina” Full-sized technical drawing available in paper or mylar
print from the National Museum of History and Technology, Division of
Musical Instruments.

. “An Appalachian Dulcimer by John Richmond of Hinton, West
Virginia, c. 1850” Full-sized technical drawing available in paper or mylar
print from the National Museum of History and Technology, Division of
Musical Instruments.

Ostroff, Eugene. “Conserving and Restoring Photographic Collections: The
Effects of Residual Chemicals.” Museum News, September 1974, pages
40-42, 48.

. “Conserving and Restoring Photographic Collections: Restoration.’

Museum News, November 1974, pages 42-45.

“Conserving and Restoring Photographic Collections: Storage.”
Museum News, December 1974, pages 34-36.

Pogue, Forrest D. “George C. Marshall.” In Encyclopedia of American Bi-
ography, edited by John A. Garraty. New York, 1974.

i

420 / Smithsonian Year 1975
. “George C. Marshall,” Encyclopedia Britannica, fifteenth edition. 1974.

. “Revolutionary Transformation of the Art of War” (revised version
of lecture by the same title). In America’s Continuing Revolution, An Act
of Conservation, Washington. American Enterprise Institute for Public
Policy Research, 1975.

Post, Robert C. “ ‘Carriages Propelled by Steam on Level Rail-Roads’: Benja-
min Dearborn’s Congressional Memorial of 1819.” Railroad History, number
132 (Spring 1975), pages 84-85.

. “Physics, Patents, and Politics: The Washington Career of Charles

Grafton Page, 1838-1868.” Dissertation Abstracts International, volume 35,

number 3 (1974).

, and Robert M. Vogel. Formal Instruction in Industrial Archeology,
History of Technology, and Related Fields in North American Colleges and
Universities. Washington, D. C.: Society for Industrial Archeology, 1975,
4 pages.

Scheele, Carl H. “U. S. Postal History.” Pictorial Treasury of U.S. Stamps,
pages 1-3, illustrated.

Schlebecker, John T. “Keeping the Records: Historical Objects.” Agricultural
History, volume 49 (January 1975), pages 108-110.

. “Stockmen and Drovers During the Revolution.” in Proceedings of the
Pioneer America Society, volume 2, pages 4-15. Falls Church, Virginia:
August 1974.

Turner, Craig J. “The Isthmus of Panama Mail Route.” In 40th American
Philatelic Congress Book, October 1974. Pages 153-165.

. “Asher Brown Durand—Premier Engraver.” S.P.A. Journal, volume 37,

number 1 (September 1974), pages 27-38.

. “Cyrus Durand—Inventive Genius.” Paper Money, volume 13, number

6, Whole Number 54 (November 1974), pages 243-251, [reprinted from

S.P.A. Journal (June 1974), volume 36, number 10, pages 593-605.]

“Early Engravings of Andrew Jackson—Part I.” S.P.A. Journal,

volume 37, number 7 (March 1975), pages 421-434.

“Early Engravings of Andrew Jackson—Part II.” S.P.A. Journal,
volume 37, number 8 (April 1975), pages 497-509.

Vogel, Robert M. Some Industrial Archeology of the Monumental City &
Environs. Washington, D. C.: Society for Industrial Archeology, April 1975.

19 pages.

Walker, Paul E. “An Isma‘ili Answer to the Problems of Worshiping the
Unknowable, Neoplatonic God.” The American Journal of Arabic Studies,
volume 2 (1974), pages 7-21.

. “The Ismaili Vocabulary of Creation.” Studia Islamica, volume 15
(1974), pages 75-85.

Warner, Deborah J. “C. H. F. Peters.” In Dictionary of Scientific Biography,
volume 10, page 543.

. “Edward Walter Maunder.” In Dictionary of Scientific Biography,

volume 9, pages 183-185.

. “Reginald Outhier.” In Dictionary of Scientific Biography, volume 10,

pages 255-256.

. “Seth Barnes Nicholson.” In Dictionary of Scientific Biography, volume
10, page 107.

White, John H., Jr. “The Provisional Railway.” Proceedings of XIIIth Inter-
national Congress of the History of Science, Moscow, 1974. Pages 156-161.

. “Wood to Burn.” American Heritage, Vol. 26, No. 1 (December 1974),

page 78.

. “The Steam Railroad Comes to Cincinnati.” Cincinnati Historical

Society Bulletin, volume 32 (Winter 1974), number 4, pages 177-183.

, editor. Railroad History, Number 131 (Autumn 1974), 144 pages.

, editor. Railroad History, Number 132 (Spring 1974), 128 pages.

uw

Appendix 7. Publications of the Staff / 421
OFFICE OF AMERICAN STUDIES

Washburn, Wilcomb E. The Assault on Indian Tribalism: The General
Allotment Law (Dawes Act) of 1887. Philadelphia: Lippincott, 1975, pages
Want = W/o

. The Indian in America. New York: Harper & Row, 1975, pages xix +

296.

. “The Writing of American Indian History,” in The American Indian,
pages 3-26. (Revision and expansion of article first appearing in Pacific
Historical Review, volume 40 (1971), pages 261-281.) Santa Barbara, Cali-
fornia: ABC Clio Press, 1974.

MUSEUM PROGRAMS

CONSERVATION-ANALYTICAL LABORATORY

Moreland, Grover, Richard Johnson, and Martha Goodway. “An Improved
Technique for the Preparation of Polished Metallurgical Sections.” Metal-
lography, volume 8 (June 1975), pages 253-255.

Olin, J. S., (Staff) and E. V. Sayre. (non-staff). “Neutron Activation Analytical
Survey of Some Intact Medieval Glass Panels and Related Specimens.” In
Archaeological Chemistry, edited by Curt W. Beck, pages 100-123. Advances
in Chemistry Series 138 (1974).

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION ARCHIVES

Richard H. Lytle, issue editor. “Management of Archives and Manuscript
Collections for Librarians.” Drexel Library Quarterly, issue 11.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION LIBRARIES

Goodwin, Jack, editor. Special Libraries Association: Museums, Arts and
Humanities Division, Bulletin, new series, volume 4, number 1 (Fall, 1974);
new series, volume 4, number 2 (Spring 1975).

Ratzenberger, Katharine. [Review] Artists USA 1974-1975: a Guide to Con-
temporary American Art and Canadian Artists in Exhibition 1973-1974.
ARLIS/NA Newsletter, volume 3, number 3 (April 1975), pages S-2-S-3.

Shank, Russell. “CATV and Libraries: Issues and Challenges.” In CATV and
Its Implications for Libraries, pages 81-90. Urbana, Illinois: Graduate
School of Library Science, 1974.

. “Emerging Programs of Cooperation.” Library Trends, volume 23,
issue 2 (October, 1974), pages 287-304.

Walker, William B. “Art Books and Periodicals: Dewey and LC” Library
Trends, volume 23, number 3 (January, 1975), pages 451-470.

PUBLIC SERVICE

ANACOSTIA NEIGHBORHOOD MUSEUM

Barnett-Aden Collection. Catalogue of the Collection, Anacostia Neighborhood
Museum, January 1975. Washington, D. C.: Smithsonian Institution Press,
190 pages, 15 color and 136 black-and-white illustrations.

District of Columbia Art Association: Exhibition 1974-75. Catalogue of tne
exhibition, Anacostia Neighborhood Museum, November 1974. Washington,
D. C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 46 pages, 75 black-and-white illustrations.

422. / Smithsonian Year 1975
DIVISION OF PERFORMING ARTS

Cox, Suzanne, “The Use of Speech at Two Auctions.” Pennsylvania Folklife,
volume 24, number 1 (Fall 1974).

McCarl, Robert (Research Associate). “The Production Welder: Product,
Process and the Industrial Craftsman.” New York Folklore Quarterly,
Volume 30, number 4, pages 243-253.

McNeil, William, “An Annotated Bibliography of Indiana Folklore.” Indiana
Folklore, number 1, 1973.

. [Review] The Art of Ragtime, by William J. Schafter and Johannes

Riedel. Folklore Forum.

. [Review] John Gordon McCurry: The Social Harp, edited by John
Garst and Daniel Patterson. Journal of American Folklore.

Proschan, Frank (Research Associate). “Walter Vinson, 1901-1975,” Living
Blues, number 21 (May-June, 1975).

Rinzler, Ralph, “Bill Monroe,” In Stars of Country Music, edited by Bill
Malone and Judith McCulloch. Urbana, Illinois: University of Illincis Press,
1975.

Taylor, J. R. [Eleven articles on jazz.] Village Voice.

. [Jazz record reviews] University Review, September 1974.

. [Two reviews of jazz performances] Zoo World.

Vennum, Thomas (Research Associate). ‘Ojibwa Origin Migration Songs of
the Mitewiwin,” Sixth Annual Algonquian Conference, Ottawa, Canada.
Williams, Martin. “And What Might a Jazz Composer Do?” Music Educators

Journal, volume 61, number 5 (January 1975).

. “Jazz Music, A Brief History.” USA (published by the Institute of

U.S. Studies of the Academy of Sciences of the U.S.S.R.), October 1974.

. “Scott Joplin, the Ragtime King, Rules Once More.” Smithsonian

Magazine, volume 15, number 7 (October 1974).

OFFICE OF SMITHSONIAN SYMPOSIA AND SEMINARS

Dillon, Wilton S. “Latent and Manifest Messages of Ceremony.” In The Nature
of Scientific Discovery: a Symposium Commemorating the 500th Anni-
versary of the Birth of Nicolaus Copernicus, pages 76-81. Washington,
D. C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1975.

. “Margaret Mead: President-Elect 1974,” Science 26 April 1974, volume

184, number 4135 (26 April 1974), pages 490-493.

. “On Cutting Culture Down to Size,” (essay review of The Interpreta-

tion of Cultures: Selected Essays, by Clifford Geertz. Teachers College

Record, volume 76, (September 1974).

. “History As Comparative Symbology,” [Essay Review] Dramas,

Fields and Metaphors, by Victor Turner. American Scholar, volume 44,

(Summer 1975).

, editor. The Cultural Drama: Modern Identities and Social Ferment.

Washington, D. C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1974, 328 pages.

SMITHSONIAN ASSOCIATES

Lee, Margaret V. (Resident Associate), art director, and Janet W. Solinger
(Resident Associate), producer, “Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden
Commemorative Poster Set.” Original serigraphs by Larry Rivers and
Robert Indiana; poster reproductions of works in the collection by Willem
de Kooning and Kenneth Noland. October 1974.

Appendix 7. Publications of the Staff / 423
NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART

Blanchard, Jeffrey (Summer Intern). “Theater.” In Jacques Callot: Prints and
Related Drawings, exhibition catalogue, pages 57-151. Washington: National
Gallery of Art, 1975.

Bohlin, Diane DeGrazia. “Some Unpublished Drawings by Bertoia.” Master
Drawings, volume 12, number 4 (Winter, 1974), pages 359-367.

Brown, David A. “Further Observations on the Project for a Standard by
Verrocchio and Leonardo.” Master Drawings, volume 12, number 2, 1974,
pages 127-133.

Cain, J. Fred. Introduction to James Davis, exhibition catalogue. Washington:
Middendorf Gallery, 1975.

Carmean, E. A., Jr. “Modernist Art 1960-1970.” Studio International, volume
188 (July-August 1974), pages 9-13.

. Friedel Dzubas, exhibition catalogue. Houston: The Museum of Fine
Arts, 1974.

Collins, Jane. “Cataloguing and Classifying the Exhibition Catalogue.” Special
Libraries, volume 66, number 7 (July 1975), pages 313-320.

Feller, Robert L. (Senior Fellow), Rutherford J. Gettens and Elisabeth West
FitzHugh. “Calcium Carbonate Whites.” Studies in Conservation, volume 19
(1974), pages 157-184.

Ferguson, Carra (Fellow), Compiler (under the direction of Carl Nordenfalk).
Medieval & Renaissance Miniatures from the National Gallery of Art,
exhibition catalogue. Washington: National Gallery of Art, 1975.

Keisch, Bernard (Senior Fellow). “Mossbauer Effect Spectrometry Without
Sampling: Applications to Art and Archaeology.” In Archaeological Chem-
istry, edited by Curt Beck, Advances in Chemistry Series Number 138.
Washington, D. C.: American Chemical Society, 1974, pages 186—206.

. “Mossbauer Effect Studies of Fine Arts.” Colloque Number 6, Supple-
ment to, Journal de Physique, volume 35, Number 12 (1974), pages C6—-151.

Krill, John “Condition and Watermarks.” In Jacques Callot: Prints and Related
Drawings, exhibition catalogue, pages 314-339. Washington: National
Gallery of Art, 1975.

Lehrer, Ruth. Fine “The Janus Press.” The Private Library (quarterly journal
of the Private Libraries Association), second series, volume 7, number 3
(Autumn 1974), pages 91-121.

Lewis, C. Douglas. “Disegni Autografi del Palladio non Pubblicati: Le Piante
per Caldogno e Maser (1548-1549).” Bollettino del Centro Internazionale di
Studi di Architettura volume 15, (1973; published 1975), pages 209-215.

. “A vindication of Vasari: the Rediscovery of Sanmicheli’s Palace for
Girolamo Corner at Piombino.” Architectura, 1975, number 1.

Nordenfalk, Carl (Kress Professor in Residence, 1972-73), Director of com-
pilation. Medieval & Renaissance Miniatures from the National Gallery of
Art, exhibition catalogue. Washington: National Gallery of Art, 1975.

Parkhurst, Charles. “An Appreciation.” In Frasconi Against the Grain, The
Woodcuts of Antonio Frasconi, pages 143-147. New York: Macmillan
Publishing Co., 1975.

. “Art Museums: Kinds, Organization, Procedures, and Financing.” In
On Understanding Art Museums, edited by Sherman E. Lee, pages 3-97,
Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey: Prentice-Hall, 1975.

Robinson, Andrew. “Religious Experience.” In The Logic of God: Theology and
Verification, edited by Malcolm Diamond and Thomas Litzenburg, pages
409-432. Indianapolis: Bobbs-Merrill, 1975.

. [Review] The Etchings of the Tiepolos: Complete Edition by Aldo

Rizzi. The Art Bulletin, volume 56, number 2, pages 295-298.

. [Ten short reviews] Nouvelles de l'estampe and Library Journal.

424 / Smithsonian Year 1975
Russell, H. Diane Jacques Callot: Prints and Related Drawings, exhibition
catalogue. Washington: National Gallery of Art, 1975.

Schaff, David S. (Fellow), Compiler (under the direction of Carl Nordenfalk).
Medieval & Renaissance Miniatures from the National Gallery of Art,
exhibition catalogue. Washington: National Gallery of Art, 1975.

Vikan, Gary (Fellow), editor and compiler (under the direction of Carl
Nordenfalk). Medieval & Renaissance Miniatures from the National Gallery
of Art, exhibition catalogue. Washington: National Gallery of Art, 1975.

Voris, Anna M., compiler. European Paintings: an Illustrated Summary Cat-
alogue. Washington: National Gallery of Art, 1975.

Appendix 7. Publications of the Staff / 425
APPENDIX 8. Selected Contributions of the Smithsonian Institu-
tion Staff in Fiscal Year 1975

SPEGIAL PROJECTS, OFFICE OF THE SECRETARM

LECTURES

Goode, James M. “The Outdoor Sculpture of Washington, D.C.” Radio
Smithsonian, August 19, 1975; Dimock Art Gallery of George Washington
University, September 30, 1974; Smithsonian Associates, September 16,
1974; Radio WAMU-FM of American University, September 20, 1974;
Colonial Dames Chapter of Northern Virginia, October 14, 1974; Rotary
Club, Alexandria, Virginia, November 5, 1974; Colonial Dames Chapter of
the Daughters of the American Revolution, December 3, 1974; and The
Victorian Society in America, New York City Chapter, April 21, 1975.

. “The Architectural History of Society Hill, Washington Square, and

Independence Square, Philadelphia, Pa.” Smithsonian Associates, November

22, 1974, February 15, 21, 1975, March 22, 1975, April 5, 1975, and May 3,

1975.

. “Great Country Houses of Shropshire, Derbyshire, Yorkshire and

Somerset, England.” Smithsonian Associates, January 9, 16, and 23, 1975.

. “The Architectural History of Charlottesville, Virginia.” Smithsonian

Associates, April 26, 1975, May 2, and 10, 1975.

. “The History of the Smithsonian Building,” Princeton Club, May 28,
1975; Phi Beta Kappa chapter of Washington, D.C., March 29, 1975; White
House Fellows, June 12, 1975.

Lehman, Susan N. “The History of the Smithsonian Building.” District of
Columbia Chapter of the American Women’s Business Association, July 8,
1975; Princeton Club of Washington, D. C., May 28, 1975; Smithsonian
Associates, June 10, 14, 17, 21, and 24, 1975.

SCIENCE

CENTER FOR THE STUDY OF MAN

LECTURES AND SEMINARS

Stanley, Sam. “History and Progress of Population Project,” Seminar on The
Cultural Consequences of Population Change, Bucharest, Romania, August
14, 1974.

. “Some Recent Research on American Indian Economic Development.”

Yale University, Department of Anthropology Seminar, New Haven, Con-

necticut, November 1, 1973.

. “The Smithsonian Institution’s Urgent Anthropology Small Grants

Program.” International Meeting on Urgent Anthropology organized jointly

by the Canadian National Committee for ICOM, the Canadian Commission

for UNESCO and the Canadian National Museum of Man, Ottawa, Canada,

December 3, 1974.

426 / Smithsonian Year 1975
. “The Impact of Economic Development on American Indian Com-
munities.” Century Club of Harvard University School of Business, Cam-
bridge, Massachusetts, February 24, 1975.

National Anthropological Film Center

Sorenson, E. Richard. “Social Organization in the Facial Expression of
Emotion.” Conference on Culture and Communication, Temple University,
March 1975.

. “Growing Up As A Fore” (film presentation and lecture) National
Museum of Natural History, April 1975.

Sorenson, E. Richard and Kalman Muller. “Huichol Enculturation, A Pre-
liminary Report.” American Anthropological Association Annual Meeting,
Mexico City, November 1974.

CHESAPEAKE BAY CENTER FOR ENVIRONMENTAL STUDIES

Falk, John H. “Science Education—The Near Future. Turning Classrooms
Inside Out.” AAAS Conference on Science Curricula and Teaching in
Elementary and Junior High Schools, College Park, Maryland. April 1975.

FORT PIERCE BUREAU

SEMINARS

Young, David K. “Indian River Study.” Audubon Society, St. Lucie County,
January 2, 1975.

. “Indian River Study.” National Museum of Natural History, Smith-

sonian Institution, January 9, 1975.

. “Animal-Sediment Relationships.

Hopkins University, March 20, 1975.

. “Seagrass-associated Benthos of the Indian River Estuary, Florida.”

Bermuda Biological Station, May 16, 1975.

. “Seagrass-associated Benthos of the Indian River Estuary, Florida.”

Marine Science Department, University of South Florida, May 23, 1975.

. “Seagrass-associated Benthos of the Indian River Estuary, Florida.”

Harbor Branch Foundation, Inc. May 30, 1975.

”

Chesapeake Bay Institute, Johns

PAPERS

Rice, M. E. “Sipuncula Associated with Coral Communities.” International
Symposium on Indo-Pacific Tropical Reef Biology. Guam and Palau. June
23-July 5, 1974.

. Some Aspects of Larval Development and Metamorphosis in the Sipun-

cula.” American Society of Zoologists, Annual Meeting, Tucson, Arizona,

December 27-30, 1974.

, moderator. (Contributed paper session) Division of Invertebrate
Zoology, American Society of Zoologists, Annual Meeting, Tucson, Arizona,
December 27-30, 1974.

Rice, M. E., and Douglas S. Putnam. “Sipunculan Fauna of a Coral Reef
Community off the Belizean Coast, Caribbean Sea.” International Sym-
posium on Indo-Pacific Tropical Reef Biology. Guam and Palau. June 23-
July 5, 1974.

Young, D. K. and M. W. Young. “Community Structure of the Benthos
Associated with Sea Grasses of the Indian River Estuary, Florida.” Sym-
posium on Ecology of Marine Benthos, Baruch Institute, University of
South Carolina, May 7-10, 1975.

Appendix 8. Selected Contributions of the Staff / 427
NATIONAL AIR AND SPACE MUSEUM

LECTURES AND SEMINARS

Bondurant, Russell Lynn. “The Planetarium—Artistically Speaking.” Annual
Meeting of the International Society of Planetarium Educators, Atlanta,
Georgia, October 10, 1974.

Boyne, Walter J. (Principal speaker) Northern Virginia Flight, Air Force
Association Meeting, Bolling Air Force Base, Washington, D.C., May 20,
1975.

Casey, Louis S. “Conquering the Air.” Smithsonian Associates, Technology
History Series, June 11, 1975.

Chamberlain, Von Del. “The World’s Finest Sky Theaters/Astronomy in
Parks.” 143rd Meeting of the American Astronomical Society, Rochester,
New York, August 22, 1974.

. “Sky Interpretation.” Meeting of the Rocky Mountain and High

Plains Regions of the Association of Interpretative Naturalists, September

27, 1974.

. “Planetarians: Interpreters of the Sky.” Second Annual Meeting of

the International Society of Planetarium Educators, Atlanta, Georgia,

October 10, 1974.

. “Interpreting the Sky,” Horace M. Albright Training Center, Grand

Canyon, Arizona, October 19, 1974.

. “Beholders and Expounders of the Sky.” Armand N. Spitz Lecture,

Annual Meeting of the Great Lakes Planetarium Association, Terre Haute,

Indiana, October 25, 1974.

. “The Sky as an Interpretive Resource.” Interpreters Institute, Texas

A and M University, November 18, 1974.

. “The Stars in Our Lives.” NASM Holiday Lecture Series, Washington,

D. C., December 26, 1974.

“Man: Beholder and Expounder of Heaven.” Keynote address,

Astronomy Workshop, Alexandria, Virginia, January 25, 1975.

. “Man Beholds The Sky.” Fourteenth Annual Meeting of the Associa-

tion of Interpretative Naturalists, April 9, 1975.

. “Introduction To Sky Interpretation.” Seminars presented at the
following National Park Service locations:

Chaco Canyon National Monument, August 12, 1974
*Canyon de Chelly National Monument, August 13, 1974
*Navajo National Monument, August 14, 1974
*Canyonlands/ Arches National Park, August 15-16, 1974
Everglades National Park, December 16, 1974

Rock Creek Park, Washington, D. C., March 12, 1975
Gateway National Recreation Area, May 20, 1975

*Cape Hatteras National Seashore, May 24, 1975
*Shenandoah National Park, June 7, 1975

Cape Cod National Seashore, June 10, 1975

*Assateague Island National Seashore, June 26, 1975

Garber, Paul E. “The International History of Flight.” (To a group of avia-
tion cadets from thirty-six nations) Washington, D.C., August 5, 1974.

. “The Role of Kites in the Development of the Airplane.” Goddard
Space Flight Center, Greenbelt, Maryland, December 9, 1974.

Knight, Eugene M. “The New National Air and Space Museum.”

, “Lets Go Tours.” Montgomery County Public Schools Adult Educa-

tion, Silver Spring, Maryland, March 6, 1975.

, Mens Club, Calvary Methodist Church, Arlington Virginia, April 23,
1975.

Lopez, Donald S. (Principal speaker) Winter Formal Banquet of the Order of

428 / Smithsonian Year 1975

HY
Daedalians, Bolling Air Force Base, Washington, D.C., December 4, 1974.

(Principal speaker) Teterboro Aviation Hall of Fame Dedication
Banquet, Teterboro, New Jersey, April 30, 1975.

Winter, Frank H., “Origins and Development of the Rocket in India.” 14th
Congress of the History of Science, Tokyo, Japan, August 1974.

Zisfein, M. B. “The National Air and Space Museum.” History Teachers
Association of Maryland, Baltimore, Maryland, October 1974.

. “The National Air and Space Museum.” Museum of History and

Technology Curators’ Association, Washington, D. C., March 1975.

. “Life in the Universe.” American Institute of Aeronautics and

Astronautics/Blue Ridge Section, Blacksburg, Virginia, April 1975.

. “Life in the Universe.” Explorers Club Annual Dinner, Washington,

D. C., March 1975.

. “A National Air and Space Museum Progress Report.”” American

Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics/National Capital Section, Wash-

ington, D. C., May 1975.

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY
Department of Anthropology

LECTURES, SEMINARS, PAPERS

Angel, J. Lawrence. Medical-Legal Workshop at Winchester Memorial Hos-
pital, Winchester, Virginia, October 17, 1974.

. Annual Course in Forensic Pathology, Armed Forces Institute of

Pathology, Washington, D.C., November 11, 1974.

. Seminar in Forensic Osteology, National Museum of Natural History,

Washington, D.C., December 2-13, 1974.

. AAPA Annual Meetings, Denver, Colorado, April 10-12, 1975. Paper
on Middle-class Skeletal Differences.

Evans, Clifford. (Organized two symposia based upon Smithsonian-sponsored
research programs in which Research Associate Meggers and Curator
Clifford Evans were involved.) XLI International Congress of Americanists,
Mexico City, September 2-7, 1974.

Ewers, John C. “Indian Views of the White Man Prior to 1850: An Interpreta-
tion.” Viewpoints in Indian History, Colorado State College, Fort Collins,
Colorado, August 1974.

Fitzhugh, William W. “Ice Age Mammals and the Emergence of Man.” Radio
Smithsonian, October 1974.

“Prehistoric Burial Traditions in Northeastern North America.”

Northern Virginia Archeological Society.

. “Museum Anthropology.” Bryn Mawr College field trip to Washing-

ton, April 1975.

. “Pre-Columbian European Contacts in the Northwestern Atlantic.”

Washington Philosophical Society.

. “Curatorial Responsibilities.” George Washington University course in

Museum Studies, February 1975.

. “Arctic Archeology and Anthropology.” School of Arts and Sciences,
Berkeley, California, April 1975.

Gibson, Gordon. (Informal discussion meetings with groups of students.) Hall
of the Cultures of Africa, National Museum of Natural History, Washington,
Bc.

(Illustrated lecture on the Himba of Angola) Baird Auditorium,
National Museum of Natural History, Washington, D.C., May 7, 1975.

Knez, Eugene I. (Guided lecture tour for docents through the permanent
Asian exhibits of the National Museum of Natural History)

Appendix 8. Selected Contributions of the Staff / 429
, Chairman. (Session for traditional culture of Sindhi people) in “Sind

Through the Centuries,” International Seminar, Karachi, Pakistan.

, Interlocutor. (Seminar for the control of national resources) Industrial
College for the Armed Forces, Fort McNair.

Laughlin, Robert M. “El lenguaje como vehiculo a la cultura.” First seminar
of the Instituto de Asesoria Antropolégica para la Region Maya, A.C., San
Cristébal las Casas, November 18-21, 1974.

. “(Por qué no?” Harvard Chiapas symposium “La civilizacién indigena

de Chiapas en el mundo contemporaneo,” in commemoration of the 500th

anniversary of the birth of Fray Bartolomé de las Casas, San Cristdbal las

Casas, August 19-21, 1974.

, commentator. “Myth, Ritual, and Symbolism in the Chiapas Highlands:

Reports on Recent Field Research of the Harvard Chiapas Project.” 8th Spe-

cial Session, History and Ethnohistory, Mexico City, XLI International

Congress of Americanists, September 2-7, 1974.

, moderator. “La civilizacidn indigena de Chiapas en el mundo con-
temporaneo,” Harvard Chiapas symposium in commemoration of the 500th
anniversary of the birth of Fray Bartolomé de las Casas, San Cristobal las
Casas, August 19-21, 1974.

Ortner, Donald J. (Paper on differentiation between diseases based on dif-
ferences in the nature of lesions seen in Museum specimens.) Annual
meeting of the American Association of Physical Anthropologists, April
1975.

Riesenberg, Saul. “Ponapean Kinship.” American Anthropological Association
Meeting, Mexico City, November 20-24, 1974; and Association for Social
Anthropology Meeting, Stuart, Florida, March 26-30, 1975.

, session chairman. Association for Social Anthropology, Stuart, Florida,

March 26-30, 1975.

. Conducted tour of the Pacific Hall, National Museum of Natural
History, Smithsonian Associates.

St. Hoyme, Lucille E. Talks to groups of Docents, school classes, and other
groups visiting the laboratory.

. Introductory Physical Anthropology Course for graduate Orthodontic

students, Georgetown University Dental School.

. “The Human Skeleton.” Classes for the Smithsonian Associates.

. Lectures, Northern Virginia Dental Society.

, co-ordinator. Series of 10 lectures on physical anthropology for
Smithsonian Associates, January—March 1975.

Stanford, Dennis. “A Paleo-Indian Site of the High Plains of Eastern Colorado,
U.S.” XLI Congreso Internacional de Americanistas, September 1974.

. “The Jones-Miller Site, Yuma Co., Colorado.” Denver Archeological
Society, September 1974.

——.. “The Jones-Miller Site: An Example of Hell Gap Bison Hunting and
Processing Strategies.” Plains Conference, November 1974.

. “The Jones-Miller Hell Gap Site.” Maryland Archeological Society,
April 1975.

Stanford, Dennis J., and John Albanese. “El Reparto Site, Tegucigalpa, Hon-
duras: Preliminary Geological and Archeological Report.” (Ms. on file)
Instituto Nacional de Antropolgia e Historia de Honduras, Tegucigalpa.
1975.

Sturtevant, William C. “Museums Acquisition Policies.” Council for Museum
Anthropology, American Anthropological Association annual meetings,
Mexico City, November 21, 1974.

Trousdale, William. Lecture on the work of the Helmand-Sistan Project at
Harvard University, April 1975.

, Maude I. Kerns Distinguished Visiting Professor of Oriental Art.

430 / Smithsonian Year 1975
Seminar on the Islamic architecture of East Iran, Soviet Central Asia, and

Afghanistan. University of Oregon, Eugene, Oregon, May 1975.

. Lecture on the results of the University of Michigan-Harvard Univer-

sity excavations at Qasr al-Hayr al-Sharqi (Syria) 1964-1971, of which he

was Assistant Director. Oregon, May 1975.

. Lecture on recent archaeological and other scientific discoveries in
Afghanistan. Oregon, May 1975.

Ubelaker, Douglas H. “Prehistoric Demography on the Coast of Ecuador.”
Universidad Catolica, Guayaquil, Ecuador, July 1974.

. “Current Research on the Prehistoric Demography of Coastal Ecuador”

and “Microscopic Methods of Determining Age at Death in Human

Skeletons.” XLI Congresso Internacional de Amercanistas, Mexico City,

September 1974.

. “Archeological Inferences from Human Skeletal Remains.” Virgin

Islands Archeological Society, St. Thomas, US Virgin Islands, November

1974.

. “The Significance of Human Skeletons, Recently Recovered from St.

Thomas.” Rotary Club, St. Thomas, US Virgin Islands.

. “Human Skeletons in Archeological Research.” St. Croix Archeological

Society, St. Croix, US Virgin Islands, November 1974.

. “Prehistoric Demography: Techniques and Problems.” Department of

Anthropology, University of Tennessee, Knoxville, November 1974.

. “New World Prehistoric Demography.” Smithsonian Associates,

Washington, D.C., December 1974.

. “Prehistoric Population and Demography: An Appraisal.’” Department

of Anthropology, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, March 1975.

. “Current Research on the Coast of Ecuador.” Northern Virginia
Archeological Society, Falls Church, Virginia, May 1975.

Van Beek, Gus. “The Origin and Development of Near Eastern Architecture,”
(course of ten lectures) Smithsonian Associates, winter term, 1975.

. Seminar on Archaeological Methodology at Tell Jemmeh. Smithsonian

Associates, December 1974.

. Paper on Tell Jemmeh. Annual Meeting of the Archaeological Institute

of America, Chicago, late 1974.

. Lecture on Tell Jemmeh. Senate of Scientists, National Museum of

Natural History, February 1975.

u

Department of Botany

SEMINARS AND LECTURES

Ayensu, Edward S. “Plant and Animal Relations in West Africa—with Special
Reference to Plants and Fruit Bats.’ Oxford University, October 1974.

. “Biology of Orchids.” Oxford University, November 1974.

. “Ten Percent of Our Plant Species May Not Survive.” International

Leadership Seminar, Smithsonian Institution, April 1975.

. “The Endangered Plant Species Program at the Smithsonian.” Annual
Conference of the Garden Clubs of America, The National Arboretum,
Washington, D. C., April 1975.

Eyde, Richard H. “Foibles, Fallacies, and Famous Figures in Floral Morphol-
ogy.” Naturalists’ Forum, Philadelphia Academy of Natural Sciences,
December 1974; and Philadelphia Botanical Club, February 1975.

Fosberg, F. R. “Geography, Ecology and Bio-geography.” “Presidents Program,”
American Association of Geographers, New York, April 1975.

Nowicke, Joan W. “Pollen Morphology as a Tool in Plant Classification.”
Lebanon Valley College, Annville, Pennsylvania, February 1975.

. “Pollen Morphology as a Tool in Higher Order Systematics.” Uni-

Appendix 8. Selected Contributions of the Staff / 431
versity of Maryland, and Botanical Society of Washington, D. C., March

1975.

. “Pollen studies in the Centrospermae.” Missouri Botanical Garden, St.
Louis, March 1975.

Read, Robert W. “Spring Flower Botany,” ten-week course. Smithsonian
Associates, spring 1975.

. “Current Research on Bromeliads at the Smithsonian.” Sacramento
Bromeliad group, California, June 1975.

Shetler, Stanwyn G. “Summer Botany: Summer Wildflowers,” four field
sessions. Smithsonian Associates, August 1974.

. “A General Overview of the Flora of the United States,” seminar on

“Eastern Hardwood Forest” for interpretive personnel of the National Capital
Parks, October 1974.

“Greenspace.” Jaycees of Sugarland Run Community, Sterling,

Virginia, October 1974.

. “The Flora North America Generalized System for Describing the

Morphology of Organisms.” Museum Data Bank Committee, Margaret

Woodbury Strong Museum, Rochester, N.Y., November 1974.

. “Plant Exploration in Alaska,” free film and lecture series. Baird

Auditorium, National Museum of Natural History, March 1975.

. “Pawpaws and Pitcher-Plants: The Pageant of Spring Wildflowers in

the Potomac Valley.” The Cornell Club of Washington, D.C., April 1975.

. “The Landscape in the Ecosystem.” guest lecture in course “Introduc-

tion to Landscape Architecture.” Continuing Education for Women Center,

George Washington University, Washington, D.C., May 1975.

. “Gardening for Wildlife.” Sugarland Run Garden Club, Sterling,

Virginia, May 1975.

. “Pawpaws and Pitcher-Plants: The Pageant of Spring Wildflowers in

the Potomac Valley.’” Rose Hill Garden Club, Alexandria, Virginia, May

1975.

. “Careers in Botany,” Class for high school students. Smithsonian
Associates, May 1975,

Simpson, Beryl B. “Desert Scrub Flowers as a Faunal Resource.” American
Institute of Biological Sciences meeting, Tempe, Arizona, August 1974.
“Breeding Syndromes of Desert Scrub Perennials.” University of

Maryland, November 1974.

. “Convergence of Breeding Systems of Warm Desert Plants.” Uni-
versity of Massachusetts, December 1975, and University of Georgia,
January 1975.

Skog, Laurence E. “Angiosperm Evolution” [in response to animal pollinators.]
Plant Morphology Class, George Mason University, Fairfax, Virginia, May
Ie Asy.

Stern, William L. “The Bond Between Botany and Medicine” (Belk Award
recipient lecture for 1974). Miami University, Ohio, October 1974; and to
Members of the Pacific Tropical Botanic Garden, Honolulu, March 1975.

Tangerini, Alice. “Halftone and Line Techniques on Nylar” and “Methods of
Construction from Herbarium Specimens.” “Nuplementation ’74,” a com-
bined meeting of the Guild of Natural Science Illustrators and the Associa-
tion of Medical Illustrators, New Orleans, October 1974; and Guild of
Natural Science Illustrators of Washington, D. C., November 1975.

Wurdack, John J. “Endangered and Threatened Plant Species of the United
States.” American Rock Garden Society in White Plains, New York, January
1975.

. “South American Plant Geography and Ecology,” Science Division
Colloquium, St. Mary’s College of Maryland, April 1975.

Botany Seminars, 1974-1975, in which various members of the Department of
Botany participated:

432 / Smithsonian Year 1975
October 2, 1974. “Relationships in Madagascar Bignoniaceae.” Dr. Alwyn H.
Gentry, Missouri Botanical Garden, Saint Louis.

October 7, 1974. “Field Observations on Bromeliaceae and other Succulents.”
Professor Werner Rauh, University of Heidelberg, Germany.

December 16, 1974. “Remote Sensing of Vegetation for Environmental Manage-
ment.” Charles A. Dorigan, Biogeographer and Staff Scientist, Earth Satellite
Corporation, Washington, D. C.

February 10, 1975. “Biosystematic Studies in the Basidiomycete Genus Pho-
liota.” Ellen Farr, Bibliographer, Index Nominum Genericorum, Smithsonian
Institution, Washington, D. C.

March 19, 1975. “Dynamics of Epiphyte Populations in Western Oregon.” Dr.
Lawrence H. Pike, Assistant Professor of Biology, George Mason University,
Fairfax, Virginia.

April 15, 1975. “Are There Vascular Plants Older Than Late Silurian (Pri-
dolian)?”” Dr. Harlan P. Banks, Professor of Botany, Cornell University,
Ithaca, New York.

May 7, 1975. “Contemplating Coca.” Dr. James A. Duke, Supervisory Botanist
and Chief, Plant Taxonomy Laboratory, Plant Genetics and Germplasm In-
stitute, U.S.D.A., Beltsville, Maryland.

May 14, 1975. “Botany in Malaysia.”” Dr. Benjamin C. Stone, Department of
Botany, University of Malaya, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.

May 21, 1975. “Variations in Types of Branching in the Palms.” Dr. Jack B.
Fisher, Plant Morphologist, Fairchild Tropical Garden, Miami, Florida.

June 3, 1975. “Meristems, Mobilities and Ecological Strategies.” Dr. P. B. Tom-
linson, Professor of Botany, Maria Moors Cabot Foundation for Botanical
Research of Harvard University at Harvard Forest, Petersham, Massa-
chusetts.

Department of Entomology
LECTURES AND SEMINARS

Erwin, Terry L. “The Role of Ground Beetles in the Tropical Arboreal Eco-
system.” Thomas Hunt School of Biology, University of Kentucky, Lexington,
spring 1973.

. “The Role of Women in Biological Sciences.” National Cathedral

School for Girls, Washington, D. C., spring 1973.

. “The Role of Carabid Beetles in the Arboreal Ecosystem in Middle

America.” California Academy of Sciences, San Francisco, December 20,

1974.

. “The Role of Arboreal Ground Beetles in the Tropical Ecosystem.”

University of Florida, January 8, 1975.

. “The Role of Ground Beetles in the Tropical Arboreal Ecosystem.”

University of Arkansas, December 9, 1974.

. “Where Have All the Ground Beetles Gone? or The Phenomenon of

Checkerboard Distribution in Tropical Lowland Forests.” Senate of Scientists

Sherry Seminar, National Museum of Natural History, Washington, D. C.,

April 30, 1975.

. “The Role of NMNH in Smithsonian Science.” First Smithsonian

Inter-Science Conference, February 6-8, 1975.

. “The Need for Monitoring and Long Range Planning of Personnel

Resources in Systematic Biology.” Panel discussion, 4th Annual Meeting of

Association of Systematics Collections, Ithaca, New York, May 10, 1975.

, Leader “Beginning Hennig—A Workshop Dealing with the Funda-
mentals of Hennigian Systematics Principles,” informal workshop series.
Department of Invertebrate Zoology and Entomology, United States De-
partment of Agriculture, fall 1974.

Flint, Oliver S., Jr. “Studies on Neotropical Trichoptera: A Preliminary Report.”

Appendix 8. Selected Contributions of the Staff / 433
First International Symposium on Trichoptera, Lunz am See, Austria,

September 16, 1974.

. “A Survey of the Caddisflies of Argentina.” Entomological Society of

Washington, November 7, 1974.

. “Habitats of the Andes from Chile to the Antarctic Circle.” University
of Maryland, College Park, Maryland, January 22, 1975.

Hurd, Paul D., Jr. (Lecture) “Users of Taxonomic Research and Services: The
National Plan for Systematics Resources in Entomology and its Meaning to
the User Community,” Symposium, Entomological Society of America
Eastern Branch Meeting, Hershey, Pennsylvania, September 25, 1974.

. (Lecture) “Systematics Resources in Entomology,” Symposium, Ento-
mological Society of America, Annual Meeting, Minneapolis, Minnesota,
December 4, 1974.

Sirivanakarn, Sunthorn. “The Systematics of Culex vishnui Complex in South-
east Asia.” Annual Meeting, American Mosquito Control Association, March
ile}, altar

Ward, Ronald A. “The Medical Entomology Project at the Smithsonian In-
stitution.” Biology Seminar, Notre Dame University, August 7, 1974.

. “African Trypanosomiasis,” Taped lecture. Entomological Society of

America and Brigham Young University, 1974.

Department of Invertebrate Zoology

LECTURES AND SEMINARS

Barnard, J. L. “Evolution in Tropical Amphipoda.” Symposium on Coral Reefs,
Palau and Guam, July 1974.

. “Evolution in Amphipoda,” public lecture. University of Arizona,

Tucson. 1974.

. “Evolution in Amphipoda.” Symposium honoring John S. Garth,
Southern California Academy of Sciences, Los Angeles, May 1975.

Bowman, T. E. “Discovery of the First Alaskan Water-Slater and Its Zoogeo-
graphical Implications.” Department of Invertebrate Zoology seminar series,
1975.

. “Marine plankton.” Smithsonian Associates course in marine biology,
April 1975.

Cressey, R. F. “Marine Biology—Past, Present and Future,’
Smithsonian Associates, January to April, 1975.

Hope, W. D. “Marine Nematology—Past, Present and Future.” Annual meeting
of Society of Nematologists, Riverside, California, August, 1974.

Jones, M. L. “The Invertebrates Fauna of the Locks of the Panama Canal.”
Association of Island Marine Laboratories of the Caribbean, St. Croix,
Virgin Islands, May, 1975.

Pawson, D. L. “Echinoderms of Oceanic Islands.
Australia, Perth, Western Australia, July 1974.

. “Oceanic Islands, Dispersal Mechanisms and Endemism; Studies on

Echinoderms of Bermuda and Ascension Islands.” University of North

Carolina, Chapel Hill, February 1975.

. “Life in the Deep Sea.” Smithsonian Associates course in marine

biology. February 1975.

. “Oceanic Islands, Dispersal Mechanisms and Endemism.” Fort Pierce

Bureau, Smithsonian Institution, March 1975.

. “Swimming Sea Cucumbers.” Department of Invertebrate Zoology

seminar series, May 1975.

. “Echinoderms.” Smithsonian Associates course in marine biology.

June 1975.

,

course of lectures.

wt

University of Western

434 / Smithsonian Year 1975
Rice, M. E. “Some Aspects of Metamorphosis and Larval Development of the
Sipuncula.” American Society of Zoologists, annual meeting. December 1974.

Roper, C. F. E. “Introduction to the Biology of the Cephalopoda,” two lectures.
Smithsonian Associates Adult Science Class, July 1974.

. “The Shell in Cephalopod Phylogeny.” American Malacological Union,

Springfield, Massachusetts, August 1974.

. “Catches of Cephalopods by Various Midwater Trawls.” Workshop

on problems of assessing populations of nekton, Santa Barbara, California,

February 1975.

. “A Survey of the Biology and Diversity of Cephalopods.” Smithsonian

Associates Adult Science Class, Marine Life, May 1975.

. “Studies of Cephalopod Radulae.” American Malacological Union

Annual Meeting, San Diego, California, June 1975.

. “The Distribution of the Epipelagic Octopod Ocythoe tuberculata
Rafinesque.” American Malacological Union Annual Meeting, San Diego,
California, June 1975.

Rosewater, J. “The Natural History and Classification of Mollusks,” two
lectures. Smithsonian Associates course on mollusks. July 1974.

. “Mollusks of Gatun Locks, Panama Canal.” American Malacological

Union Annual Meeting, Springfield, Massachusetts, August 1974.

. “An Expedition to the Moluccas Islands, Indonesia.” National Capital

Shell Club, February 1975.

. “Panamanian Mollusks.” Department of Invertebrate Zoology seminar

series, May 1975.

. “William Healey Dall—the Legacy He Left for Malacology.” American

Malacological Union Annual Meeting, San Diego, California. June 1975.

. “Some Results of the National Museum of Natural History—Smith-
sonian Research Institute Survey of Panama, 1971-1975.” American Malaco-
logical Union Annual Meeting, San Diego, California, June 1975.

Ruetzler, K. “Smithsonian Studies of Coral Reefs.” International Leadership
Seminars, National Museum of Natural History, Foreign Student Service
Council, Washington, D.C., April 1975.

Williams, A. B. “Biological Research at the Smithsonian Institution, with
Special Remarks on Crustacean Studies.” McPherson College, Biology class,
February 1975.

. “Swimming Crabs of the Genus Callinectes.” Woods Hole Ocean-

ographic Institution, noon seminar, April 1975.

. “Systematic Studies on the Genus Callinectes.”” Chesapeake Biological

Laboratories, Solomons, Maryland, June 1975.

Department of Mineral Sciences
LECTURES AND SEMINARS

Appleman, Daniel E. “X-Ray Crystallography and Polytypism of Naturally
Occurring Tridymite, SiOz,” lecture. American Crystallographic Association
Annual Meeting, Penn State, August 1974.

. “The Crystal Structures of Synthetic Lautarite, Ca(IOs)2, Bruggerite,

Ca(IO:)2*H2O and Ca(IO:)2*6H2O,” lecture. American Crystallographic As-

sociation Annual Meeting, Penn State, August 1974.

“Crystal Structure Research,” seminar. Smithsonian Front Royal
Conference.

Banks, Harold H., Jr. “Rocks and Their Stories,” lecture. Cresthaven Elementary
School, Silver Spring, Maryland, September, 1974.

. “Rocks and Their Stories,” 5 Class lectures. Chevy Chase Elementary
School, Chevy Chase, Maryland, October, 1974.

Clarke, Roy S. Jr. “The Allende Mexico Meteorite Shower,” lecture. Philadel-

Appendix 8. Selected Contributions of the Staff / 435
phia Mineralogical Society, Academy of Natural Sciences, Philadelphia,
December 5, 1974.

Desautels, Paul E. Two lectures. California Federation of Gem and Mineral
Societies, San Mateo, California, July 1974.

. Two lectures. Northwest Federation of Gem and Mineral Societies,

Forest Grove, Oregon, August 1974.

. Three lectures. Smithsonian Associates, University of Houston, Texas,

January 1975.

. Lecture. Pacific Micromount Conference, Santa Monica, California,

February 1975.

. Two lectures. Tucson Gem and Mineral Society Annual Meeting,

Tucson, Arizona, February 1975.

. Two lectures. Boston Mineral Society, Boston, Massachusetts, March

1975.

. Two lectures. Second Annual Mineral Conference, Rochester Academy

of Sciences, Rochester, New York, April 1975.

. Banquet Address. Baltimore Mineral Society Annual Banquet, Spar-

row’s Point, Maryland, June 1975.

. Two lectures. Denver Council of Gem and Mineral Societies, Annual

Meeting, Denver, Colorado, June 1975.

. Two lectures. Gem and Mineral Show, Spruce Pine, North Carolina,

July 1975.

. Lecture. Honolulu Gem and Mineral Society, Honolulu, Hawaii, June
1975.

Dunn, Pete J. “Precautions in Gemstone Purchasing,” lecture. General’s Wives
Association, Fort Myer, Virginia, July 1974.

. “New Acquisitions at the Smithsonian Institution,” lecture. Capitol

Mineral Club, Concord, New Hampshire, October 1974.

. “On Royal Jewelry,” lecture. Northshore Rock and Mineral Club of

Massachusetts, October 1974.

—. “On Gems and Gem Materials,” lecture. Nashoba Valley Mineral

Society of Massachusetts, October 1974.

. “On Gems and Jewelry Design,” lecture. Rossmoor Women’s Club,

Wheaton, Maryland, January 1975.

. “The Role of Gems and Jewelry,” lecture. Annual Meeting of Sigma

Chi, Wilmington, Delaware, February 1975.

. “On Royal Jewelry,” lecture. Baltimore Mineral Society, Baltimore,

Maryland, February 1975.

. “On Recent Acquisitions at the Smithsonian,’

County Mineral Club, Maryland, March 1975.

. “On Factors in the Choice of Fine Jewelry,” lecture. The College Club

of Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, May 1975.

. “On Mineral Specimen Classics,” lecture. The New England Gem and

Mineral Show, Topsfield, Massachusetts, June 1975.

. “New England Gem Materials,” lecture. The Eastern Federation of

Gem and Mineral Societies, Annual Meeting, Portland, Maine, June 1975.

. Four lectures on Gemstones. Michigan Geology and Gemcraft Society,
Ann Arbor, Michigan, April 1975.

Fredriksson, Kurt “Petrology and Origin of Chondrites,” lecture. Bonn
University, Germany, November 1974.

. “Chondrite Petrology and Some Terrestrial and Lunar Analogues,”

lecture. Oxford University, England, February 1975.

. “Chondrite Petrology and Some Terrestrial and Lunar Analogues,”

lecture. Manchester University, England, February 1975.

. “Chondrite Petrology and Some Terrestrial and Lunar Analogues,”

lecture. St. Andrews University, Scotland, February 1975.

,

lecture. Frederick

436 / Smithsonian Year 1975
. “Chemical and Petrological Effects of Hypervelacity Impacts,” lecture.

Max Planck Institute, Mainz, Germany, May 1975.

“The Bhola Stone—A Trus Polymict Breccia?” presented paper.
Meteoritical Society Meeting, Los Angeles, August 1974.

Fudali, Robert F. “Meteorite Impact Cratering is a Random Process—Or is it?
Some Examples from Northern Africa,” lecture. Geological Society of Wash-
ington, April 1975.

Jarosewich, Eugene, A. F. Noonan, and A. DeGasparis. “The Isna Meteorite—
A C3 Find from Egypt,” presented paper. 37th Annual Meeting of the
Meteoritical Society, UCLA, July 1974.

Jarosewich, Eugene, and R. T. Dodd. “H Group Xenolith in St. Mesmin
Meteorite,” presented paper. 37th Annual Meeting of the Meteoritical
Society, UCLA, July 1974.

Jarosewich, Eugene and C. Obermeyer and J. Nelen. “Simultaneous Micro-
probe Analysis of Silicates for Nine Elements Using Wavelength Dispersive
System,” presented paper. Microprobe Society Meetings, Ottawa, Canada,
July 1974.

Jarosewich, Eugene, R. H. Gibbs, Jr., and H. L. Windom. “Heavy Metal
Concentration in Museum Fish Specimens: Effects of Preservation and
Time,” presented paper. National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences,
Research Triangle Park, North Carolina, August 1974.

Mason, Brian H. “The Allende Meteorite—Cosmochemistry’s Rosetta Stone?”
lecture. Chemistry Department, University of Virginia, Charlottesville,
Virginia, February 1975.

. “The Allende Meteorite—Cosmochemistry’s Rosetta Stone?” lecture.
National Museum of Natural History Lecture Series, March 1975.

Melson, William G. “Petrology of Oceanic Crust,” series of three lectures.
Lamont-Doherty Geological Observatory, Palisades, New York, October
1974.

. “Petrology of the Juan de Fuca Ridge Spreading Center,” lecture.

Scripps Institution of Oceanography, September 1974.

. “Petrology of the Juan de Fuca Ridge Spreading Center,” lecture.

California Institute of Technology, September 1974.

. “Scientific Returns of the Deep Sea Drilling Project,” lecture. Smith-

sonian Senate of Scientists Dinner Forum, February 1974.

. “Scientific Returns of the Deep Sea Drilling Project,” lecture. National

Museum of Natural History. Public Lecture Series, January 1975.

. “Results of Basement Drilling on the Mid-Atlantic Ridge,” lecture.

Geological Society of Washington, October 1974.

. “Results of Basement Drilling on the Mid-Atlantic Ridge,” lecture.

Scripps Institution of Oceanography, La Jolla, California, December 1974.

. “Results of Basement Drilling on the Mid-Atlantic Ridge,” lecture.

Geological Society of America Meetings, Miami, September 1974.

. “Results of Basement Drilling on the Mid-Atlantic Ridge,” lecture.

Geology Department, Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts,

December 1974.

. “Results of Basement Drilling on the Mid-Atlantic Ridge,” lecture.

State University of New York at Stony Brook, Stony Brook, New York

November 1974.

. “Results of Basement Drilling on the Mid-Atlantic Ridge,” lecture.

Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution, Woods Hole, Massachusetts,

November 1974.

. “Results of Basement Drilling on the Mid-Atlantic Ridge,” lecture.

Graduate School of Oceanography, University of Rhode Island, Kingston,

November 1974.

Appendix 8. Selected Contributions of the Staff / 437
. “Continents in Motion,” series of ten lectures. Smithsonian Asso-
ciates, Spring 1975.

Simkin, Thomas. “Glacial Geology and the Ice Ages—Hall 6,” lecture. Smith-
sonian Institution Docents, September 1974. é

. “Man and Biosphere Conference,” conference. Roland Center, Virginia,

October 1974.

. “Oceanic Volcanism,” lecture and two films. National Museum of

Natural History Public Lecture Series, December 1974.

. “Galapagos Islands Volcanism,” lecture. National Museum of Natural

History Public Lecture Series, January 1975.

. “Galapagos Islands Volcanism,” lecture. Princeton University, Prince-

ton, New Jersey, February 1975.

. “Physical Geology—Hall 20,” Smithsonian Institution Docents, March
1975.

White, John S., Jr. “Mineral Names,” lecture. The Greater Detroit International
Gem and Mineral Show, Detroit, Michigan, October 1974.

. “An Insight into Editing a Mineral Magazine,” lecture. Baltimore

Mineral Society, Baltimore, Maryland, November 1974.

. “Mineralogy,” lecture. Kiwanis Club, Hilo, Hawaii, January 1975.

. “The Mineral and Gem Collections of the Smithsonian,” lecture.

Polynesian Gem Collection of Honolulu, Honululu, Hawaii, February 1975.

. “Visiting Some Contemporary Mineral Localities,” lecture. Cincinnati

Mineral Society Annual Show, Cincinnati, Ohio, April 1975.

. “The Minerals of Mexico,” lecture. National Gem and Mineral Show,

Denver, Colorado, June 1975.

Department of Vertebrate Zoology

LECTURES

um

Ash, John S. “Autumn Migration in Eastern Ethiopia,” 16th International
Ornithological Congress, Canberra, Australia, August 12-17, 1974.

Divoky, George J., and George E. Watson. “The Pelagic and Near Shore Birds
of the Beaufort and Chukchi Seas.” International Symposium on Conserva-
tion of Marine Birds in Northern North America, Seattle, Washington, May
13-15, 1975.

Olson, Storrs L. “New Fossil Evidence of the Origin of Frigatebirds.” 16th
International Ornithological Congress, Canberra, Australia, August 15, 1974.

Watson, George E. “Studies and Control of Crop Damage by Wild Birds.”
Academy of Technical and Scientific Research, Egyptian Zoological Gardens,
Gizah, Egypt, August 6, 1974.

Watson, George E., George M. Jonkel, and F. Graham Cooch. “Dispersal and
Migratory Movements.” International Symposium on Conservation of
Marine Birds in Northern North America, Seattle, Washington, May 13-15,
1975.

Zug, George R. “Reptiles and Amphibians of New Guinea.’
Herpetological Society, April 1975.

,

Washington

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK
Office of Animal Management

LECTURES

Egoscue, Harold. “Care & Management of the Utah Prairie Dog in Captivity.”
Seminar sponsored by National Capitol area branch of the American
Association for Laboratory Animal Science, September 12, 1974.

Marcellini, Dale. “Acoustic Behavior of Lizards.” Symposium on the Behavior
and Neurology of Lizards, Front Royal Conservation Center, May 1975.

438 / Smithsonian Year 1975
. “Some Aspects of the Thermal Ecology of Hemidactylus frenatus.”
American Society of Ichthyologists and Herpetologists meetings, June 1975.

Roberts, Miles, and Larry Collins. “Arboreal Folivores in Captivity: Main-
tenance of a Delicate Minority.” Arboreal Folivore Conference, Front Royal,
Virginia.

SMITHSONIAN ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY

LECTURES AND REPORTS

Aksnes, K. “Properties of Satellite Orbits: Ephemerides, Dynamical Constants,
and Satellite Phenomena.” International Astronomical Union Colloquium
No. 28, Planetary Satellites, Ithaca, New York, August 1974.

. “Short-Period and Long-Period Perturbations of a Spherical Satellite
due to Direct Solar Radiation.” Dynamical Astronomy Division Meeting of
the American Astronomical Society, Tampa, Florida, December 1974.
[Abstract] Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society, volume 7 (1975),
page 341.

Aksnes, K., and F. A. Franklin: “Results of 1973 Occultations of Europa by
Io.” International Astronomical Union Colloquium No. 28, Planetary
Satellites, Ithaca, New York, August 1974.

Aksnes, K., and B. G. Marsden. “The Orbit of Jupiter XIII.” Dynamical
Astronomy Division Meeting of the American Astronomical Society, Tampa,
Florida, December 1974. [Abstract] Bulletin of the American Astronomical
Society, volume 7 (1975), page 342.

Avrett, E. H. “Formation of the Solar EUV Spectrum.” Solar Physics Division
Meeting of the American Astronomical Society, Boulder, Colorado, January
1975. [Abstract] Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society, volume 7
(1975), page 360.

Black, J. H. “A9 cm CH Emission in Comet Kohoutek (1973f).” National
Aeronautics and Space Administration/Marshall Space Flight Center Comet
Kohoutek Workshop, Huntsville, Alabama, June 1975.

Cameron, A. G. W. “Formation of the Outer Planets and Satellites.” The
International Astronomical Union Colloquium number 28, Planetary Satel-
lites, Ithaca, New York, August 1974.

Cameron, A. G. W., and J. B. Pollack. “On the Origin of the Solar System and
of Jupiter and Its Satellites.” Jupiter Conference, Tucson, Arizona, May
1975.

Chaffee, F. H. “Interstellar CH and CH* in Ophiuchus.” Spring Meeting of
the Astronomical Society of the Pacific, May 1975.

. “Application of Electrography to Astronomical Spectroscopy.” Spring
Meeting of the Society of Photographic Scientists and Engineers, Cambridge,
Massachusetts, June 1975.

Chaisson, E. J. “On Nebular Non-Equilibrium Thermodynamics.” 1974 United
States National Committee/International Union of Radio Science Meeting,
Boulder, Colorado, October 1974. [Abstract] Program of Abstracts, page 73.

. “Microwave Observations of Rho Ophiuchi.” 144th Meeting of the
American Astronomical Society, Gainesville, Florida, December 1974.
[Abstract] Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society, volume 6 (1974),
page 436.

Chaisson, E. J., and C. A. Beichman. “Magnetism in Dense Interstellar Clouds.”
143rd Meeting of the American Astronomical Society, Rochester, New York,
August 1974. [Abstract] Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society,
volume 6 (1974), page 336.

Chang, H. T., and M. D. Grossi. “Long Range ULF Propagation in the Earth
Lithosphere.” International Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers/
American Physical Society Symposium and United States National Com-

Appendix 8. Selected Contributions of the Staff / 439
mittee/International Union of Radio Science Meeting, Urbana, Illinois,
June 1975.

Chase, R. C., L. Golub, A. Krieger, J. K. Silk, G. S. Vaiana, M. Zombeck, and
A. F. Timothy. “Temperature and Density Measurements of Coronal
Loops.” Solar Physics Division Meeting of the American Astronomical
Society, Boulder, Colorado, January 1975. [Abstract] Bulletin of the Ameri-
can Astronomical Society, volume 7 (1975), page 346.

Chetin, T., C. J. Forman, and W. Liller. “Optical Characteristics of Candidate
Stars for X-Ray Sources in the Large Magellanic Cloud.” 143rd Meeting of
the American Astronomical Society, Rochester, New York, August 1974.
[Abstract] Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society, volume 6 (1974),
page 304.

Colombo, G., E. M. Gaposchkin, M. D. Grossi, and G. C. Weiffenbach. “Long-
Tethered Satellites for the Shuttle Orbiter.” International Conference on
Technology of Scientific Space Experiments, Paris, France, May 1975.

Cook, A. F., and F. A. Franklin. Saturn’s Rings—A Survey.” International
Astronomical Union Colloquium number 28, Planetary Satellites, Ithaca,
New York, August 1974.

Dalgarno, A. “Model and Pseudopotential Calculations.” Fourth International
Conference on Atomic Physics, Heidelberg, Germany, July 1974.

. “Fluorescence Processes in Molecular Hydrogen.” Perspectives in

Spectroscopy, a Symposium in honor of Dr. Gerhard Herzberg, Montreal,

Canada, September 1974.

. “Molecular Processes in Astrophysics.” Summer Research Conference
on Theoretical Chemistry, Boulder, Colorado, June 1975.

Dickinson, D. F. “Water Vapor in Infrared Stars.” 143rd Meeting of the Ameri-
can Astronomical Society, Rochester, New York, August 1974. [Abstract]
Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society, volume 6 (1974), page 340.

Docken, K. K. “Recent Theoretical Developments in Calculations of Hz:
Photoionization.” Division of Electron and Atomic Physics of the American
Physical Society, Chicago, Illinois, December 1974.

Dupree, A. K. “Ultraviolet Observations of Chromospheric Emission Lines in
G Stars.” 144th Meeting of the American Astronomical Society, Gainesville,
Florida, December 1974. [Abstract] Bulletin of the American Astronomical
Society, volume 6 (1974), page 446.

. “Ultraviolet Observations of Capella from Copernicus.” Solar Physics
Division Meeting of the American Astronomical Society, Boulder, Colorado,
January 1975. [Abstract] Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society,
volume 7 (1975), page 359.

Dupree, A. K., and P. V. Foukal. “Plasma Diagnostics from Solar EUV
Spectra.” International Astronomical Union Colloquium number 27, UV and
X-Ray Spectroscopy of Astrophysical and Laboratory Plasmas, Cambridge,
Massachusetts, September 1974.

Dupree, A. K., P. V. Foukal, M. C. E. Huber, R. W. Noyes, E. M. Reeves,
E. J. Schmahl, J. G. Timothy, J. E Vernazza, and G. L. Withbroe. “Extreme
Ultraviolet Solar Spectra from Skylab-Apollo Telescope Mount.” 143rd
Meeting of the American Astronomical Society, Rochester, New York,
August 1974. [Abstract] Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society,
volume 6 (1974), page 349.

Epstein, R. “Production of the Light Elements in Supernovae.” Presented at
the High Energy Astrophysics Division Meeting of the American Astro-
nomical Society, Gainesville, Florida, December 1974.

Fazio, G. G., D. E. Kleinmann, R. W. Noyes, E. L. Wright, M. Zeilik II, and
F. J. Low. “High Resolution Maps of the Orion Nebula Region and W3 at
Far Infrared Wavelengths.” 143rd Meeting of the American Astronomical
Society, Rochester, New York, August 1974.

440 / Smithsonian Year 1975

Field, G. B. “Heating and Ionization of the Interstellar Medium: Star Forma-
tion.” 1974 les Houches Summer School in Theoretical Physics, Paris,
France.

. “Hot Gas in and between Galaxies.” International Astronomical Union

Colloquium number 27, UV and X-Ray Spectroscopy of Astrophysical and

Laboratory Plasmas, Cambridge, Massachusetts, September 1974.

. “Heating of the Universe by Quasars.” Symposium on the Early Evolu-
tion of the Universe, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, North
Carolina, March 1975.

Fireman, E. L., J. D'Amico, and J. DeFelice. “The Tritium Content of Solar
Wind from Surveyor 3 Material.” [Abstract] American Chemical Society
Meeting, Atlantic City, New Jersey, September 1974.

Foukal, P. V. “The Pressure Balance and Electric Currents of Active Region
Loop Structures.” High Altitude Observatory, Boulder, Colorado, December
1974.

. “The Pressure Balance and Currents in Active Region Loop Structures.”
Solar Physics Division Meeting, American Astronomical Society, Boulder,
Colorado, January 1975. [Abstract] Bulletin of the American Astronomical
Society, volume 7 (1975), page 346.

Frogel, J. A., S. E. Persson, M. Aaronson, E. E. Becklin, K. Matthews, and G.
Neugebauer. “Stellar Content of Elliptical Galaxy Nuclei.” 144th Meeting
of the American Astronomical Society, Gainesville, Florida, December
1974. [Abstract] Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society, volume 6
(1974), page 441.

Gaposchkin, E. M. “LAGEOS.” 18th International COSPAR Meeting, Varna,
Bulgaria, June 1975.

Gaposchkin, E. M., J. Latimer, and G. Mendes. “Station Coordinates in the
Standard Earth III System Derived by Using Camera Data from ISAGEX.”
INTERCOSMOS Symposium on Results of Satellite Observations, Buda-
pest, Hungary, October 1974.

Gerassimenko, M., J. M. Davis, R. C. Chase, A. S. Krieger, J. K. Silk, and G. S.
Vaiana. “Simultaneous X-Ray Spectra and X-Ray Images of an Active
Region.” Presented at the Solar Physics Division Meeting of the American
Astronomical Society, Boulder, Colorado, January 1975. [Abstract] Bulletin
of the American Astronomical Society, volume 7 (1975), page 347.

Giacconi, R. “Her X-1 and Cen X-3 Revisited.” Seventh Texas Symposium on
Relativistic Astrophysics, Dallas, Texas, December 1974.

. “Progress in X-Ray Astronomy.” Thirty-Fourth Richtmyer Memorial
Lecture of the American Association of Physics Teachers, Anaheim,
California, January 1975.

Golub, L., A. Krieger, R. Simon, G. Vaiana, and A. F. Timothy. “Temporal
and Spatial Properties of Coronal Bright Points.” Solar Physics Division
Meeting of the American Astronomical Society, Boulder, Colorado, January
1975. [Abstract] Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society, volume 7
(1975), page 350.

Gorenstein, P., H. Helmken, and H. Gursky. “Localization of Gamma-Ray
Bursts with Wide Field Multiple Pinhole Camera System in Near Earth
Orbit.” COSPAR/International Astronomical Union Symposium on Fast
Transients in X- and Gamma-Rays, Varna, Bulgaria, May 1975.

Grossi, M. D., editor. Selected Papers on OV4-1 Satellite-to-Satellite Long-
Range HF Propagation Experiment. Report ER74-4372, Raytheon Company,
Sudbury, Massachusetts, November 1974.

. “Spacecraft-to-Spacecraft Ionospheric Measurements on Occasion of

the Apollo-Soyuz Test Project (ASTP).” COSPAR Symposium on Beacon

Satellite Investigations of the Ionosphere Structure and ATSF Data, Moscow,

USSR, November 1974.

Appendix 8. Selected Contributions of the Staff / 441
Gursky, H., H. Schnopper, E. Schreier, and D. Parsignault. “Preliminary X-Ray
Results from the Astronomical Netherlands Satellite (ANS).” 144th Meeting
of the American Astronomical Society, Gainesville, Florida, December 1974.
[Abstract] Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society, volume 6 (1974),
page 444.

Gursky, H., and E. Schreier. “The Binary X-Ray Stars—The Observational
Picture.” International Astronomical Union Symposium No. 67, Variables
in Relation to the Evolution of Stars and Stellar Systems, Moscow, USSR,
August 1974.

Harvey, J. W., A. S. Krieger, J. M. Davis, A. F. Timothy, and G. S. Vaiana.
“Comparison of Skylab X-Ray and Ground-Based Helium Observations.”
Solar Physics Division Meeting of the American Astronomical Society,
Boulder, Colorado, January 1975. [Abstract] Bulletin of the American
Astronomical Society, volume 7 (1975), page 358.

Hoegy, W. R., H. G. Mayr, L. H. Brace, G. A. Victor, S. Robertson, and
E. Fontheim. “Local and Non-Local Ionospheric Electron Heating.” American
Geophysical Union Spring Meeting, Washington, D. C., June 1975.

Jacchia, L. G., J. W. Slowey, and U. von Zahn. “Latitudinal Changes of Com-
position in the Disturbed Thermosphere from ESRO 4 Measurements.” 17th
International COSPAR Meeting, Varna, Bulgaria, June 1975.

Jordan, C. “The Intensities of Helium Lines in the Solar EUV Spectrum.”
International Astronomical Union Colloquium number 27, UV and X-Ray
Spectroscopy of Astrophysical and Laboratory Plasmas, Cambridge, Massa-
chusetts, September 1974.

Kahler, S. W., A. S. Krieger, and G. S. Vaiana. “General Properties of Soft
X-Ray Flare Images.” Solar Physics Division Meeting of the American
Astronomical Society, Boulder, Colorado, January 1975. [Abstract] Bulletin
of the Astronomical Society, volume 7 (1975), page 355.

Kalkofen, W., and P. Ulmschneider. “The Theoretical Temperature Minimum.”
Solar Physics Division Meeting of the American Astronomical Society,
Boulder, Colorado, January 1975. [Abstract] Bulletin of the American
Astronomical Society, volume 7 (1975), page 363.

Kellogg, E. M. “X-Ray Astronomy in the Uhuru Epoch and Beyond,” Newton
Lacy Pierce Prize Lecture. 143rd Meeting of the American Astronomical
Society, Rochester, New York, August 1974. [Abstract] Bulletin of the
American Astronomical Society, volume 6 (1974), page 321.

Kohl, J. “Rocket-Spectrometer Observations of the Center and Limb Spectra
of the Sun.” International Astronomical Union Colloquium number 27, UV
and X-Ray Spectroscopy of Astrophysical and Laboratory Plasmas, Cam-
bridge, Massachusetts, September 1974.

Kohl, J. L., W. H. Parkinson, and E. M. Reeves. “Measurements of Solar Line
Profiles Between 1175 and 3200 A.” Solar Physics Division of the American
Astronomical Society Meeting, Boulder, Colorado, January 1975. [Abstract]
Bulletin of the Astronomical Society, volume 7 (1975), page 360.

Kojoian, G., D. Dickson, R. A. Sramek, and H. M. Tovmassian. “Flux Density
Measurements of Markarian Objects at Centimeter Wavelengths.” 143rd
Meeting of the American Astronomical Society, Rochester, New York,
August 1974. [Abstract] Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society,
volume 6 (1974), page 342.

Kozai, Y. “Hybrid Systems Used in Dynamics for Artificial Satellites.” Inter-
national Astronomical Union Colloquium number 26, Reference Coordinate
Systems for Earth Dynamics, Torun, Poland, August 1974.

Kurucz, R. L. “A Progress Report on Theoretical Four-Dimensional Photometry
of F, A, and B Stars.” Conference on Multicolor Photometry and the
Theoretical HR Diagram, State University of New York at Albany, October
1974.

442 / Smithsonian Year 1975

Lada, C. J., T. R. Gull, C. A. Gottlieb, and E. W. Gottlieb. “Radio CO and
Optical Ionization Structure of M8.” 144th Meeting of the American
Astronomical Society, Gainesville, Florida, December 1974. [Abstract]
Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society, volume 6 (1974), page 426.

. “Advances in Instrumentation for Stellar Photometry.” Conference on
Multicolor Photometry and the Theoretical H-R Diagram, Albany, New
York, October 1974.

Latham, D. W. “Conversion for Specular Density to ASA Diffuse Density.”
American Astronomical Society Working Group on Photographic Materials,
Rochester, New York, August 1974.

. “Inexpensive Computer Control of a Microphotometer.” American

Astronomical Society Working Group on Photographic Materials, Rochester,

New York, August 1974.

. “Recent Information on the DQE of Kodak Spectroscopic Plates.”
Topical Meeting on Imaging in Astronomy, Cambridge, Massachusetts, June
1975.

Lautman, D. A. “Perturbations of a Close Earth Satellite Due to Sunlight
Reflected from the Earth.” Dynamical Astronomy Division Meeting, Ameri-
can Astronomical Society, Tampa, Florida, December 1974. [Abstract]
Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society, volume 7 (1975), page 341.

Lecar, M. “Dynamical Friction in the Coma Cluster.” International Astro-
nomical Union Symposium number 69, Dynamics of Stellar Systems,
Besancon, France, September 1974.

Liller, W., E. W. Gottlieb, and E. L. Wright. “A Possible Period for Scorpio
X-1.” 143rd meeting of the American Astronomical Society, Rochester, New
York, August 1974.

Lo, K. Y., R. C. Walker, B. F. Burke, J. M. Moran, K. J. Johnson, and M. S.
Ewing. “Evidence for Zeeman Splitting in 1720-MHz OH Line Emission.”
145th Meeting of the American Astronomical Society, Bloomington,
Indiana, March 1975. [Abstract] Bulletin of the American Astronomical
Society, volume 7 (1975), page 261.

Mader, G. L., K. J. Johnston, J. M. Moran, S. H. Knowles, S. A. Mango, and
P. R. Schwartz. “The Relative Positions of the HO and OH Masers in W49
and W30H.” 144th Meeting of the American Astronomical Society, Gaines-
ville, Florida, December 1974. [Abstract] Bulletin of the American Astro-
nomical Society, volume 6 (1974), pages 442-443.

Mariska, J. T., and G. L. Withbroe. “Extreme Ultraviolet Solar Limb Brighten-
ing Observations of Lithium-Like Ions.” Solar Physics Division Meeting of
the American Astronomical Society, Boulder, Colorado, January 1975.
[Abstract] Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society, volume 7 (1975),
page 354.

Mather, J. C., and M. M. Litvak. “Vibrationally Excited Silicon Monoxide
Masers with Radiation Trapping.” 143rd Meeting of the American Astro-
nomical Society, Rochester, New York, August 1974. [Abstract] Bulletin of
the American Astronomical Society, volume 6 (1974), pages 487-488.

Mazurek, T. J. “Chemical Potential Effects on Neutrino Diffusion in Super-
novae.” 143rd Meeting of the American Astronomical Society, Rochester,
New York, August 1974. [Abstract] Bulletin of the American Astronomical
Society, volume 6 (1974), page 314.

Mertz L. “Heterographic Techniques for Astronomy.” Topical Meeting on
Imaging in Astronomy, Cambridge, Massachusetts, June 1975.

Mohr, P. A. “New Data on Evolution of the Ethiopian Rift.” 56th Annual
Meeting of the American Geophysical Union, Washington, D. C., June 1975.

Mohr, P. A., A. Girnius, J. R. Cherniack, E. M. Gaposchkin, and J. Latimer.
“Recent Crustal Deformation in the Ethiopian Rift Valley.” International

Appendix 8. Selected Contributions of the Staff / 443
Symposium on Recent Crustal Movements, Zurich, Switzerland, August
1974.

Moran, J. M., K. Y. Lo, R. C. Walker, B. F. Burke, K. J. Johnston, G. L. Mader,
S. H. Knowles, E. O. Hulburt, and G. D. Papadopoulos. “VLBI Studies of
H.O Maser Sources.” 144th Meeting of the American Astronomical Society,
Gainesville, Florida, December 1974. [Abstract] Bulletin of the American
Astronomical Society, volume 6 (1974), pages 436-437.

Nolte, J., A. S. Krieger, D. Webb, G. S. Vaiana, A. J. Lazarus, J. Sullivan, and
A. F. Timothy. “The Coronal Source of Recurrent, High Speed Solar Wind
Streams.” Solar Physics Division Meeting, American Astonomical Society,
Boulder, Colorado, January 1975. [Abstract] Bulletin of the American
Astronomical Society, volume 7 (1975), page 358.

Noyes, R. W. “A New View of the Sun from Skylab.” Maria Mitchell Ob-
servatory, Nantucket, Massachusetts, July 1974.

. “The Extreme Ultraviolet Spectrum of Sunspots.” International Astro-

nomical Union Colloquium number 27, UV and X-Ray Spectroscopy of As-

trophysical and Laboratory Plasmas, Cambridge, Massachusetts, September

1974.

. “Implications of Recent Data for Theoretical Solar Physics.” Solar

Theoretical Workshop, Tucson, Arizona, October 1974.

. “The Extreme Ultraviolet Spectrum of Sunspots.” 144th Meeting of

the American Astronomical Society, Gainesville, Florida, December 1974.

[Abstract] Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society, volume 7 (1975),

page 428.

. “Extreme Ultraviolet Spectroscopy of the Sun’s Atmosphere from

Skylab.” Meeting of the Society for Applied Spectroscopy, New England

Section, Lexington, Massachusetts, January 1975.

. “EUV Emission from Sunspots.” Solar Physics Division Meeting,

American Astronomical Society, Boulder, Colorado, January 1975.

. “EUV and X-Ray Observations from Out-of-the Ecliptic.” Symposium

on Scientific Goals and Objectives, National Aeronautics and Space Ad-

ministration Office of Space Science, Columbia, Maryland, April 1975.

. “The Solar Maximum Mission.” Presented at the Symposium on the
Study of the Sun and Interplanetary Medium in Three Dimensions, Green-
belt, Maryland, May 1975.

Oppenheimer, M. “Gas Phase Chemistry in Comets.” International Astro-
nomical Union Colloquium number 25, Study of Comets, Greenbelt, Mary-
land, October 1974.

Oppenheimer, M., A. Dalgarno, K. K. Docken, and G. A. Victor. “Molecular
Densities on the Basis of Atmospheric Explorer Composition Measure-
ments.” American Geophysical Union Winter Meeting, San Francisco,
California, December 1974.

Oppenheimer, M., A. Dalgarno, and H. Doyle. “Bound State Method in
Scattering.” 4th International Conference on Atomic Physics, Heidelberg,
Germany, July 1974.

Oppenheimer, M., H. Doyle, and A. Dalgarno. “A Bound State Method for
Phase Shifts in Elastic Scattering of Electrons from Atoms and Ions.” 4th
International Conference on Atomic Collisions, Heidelberg, Germany, July
1974.

Perrenod, S. C., and G. A. Shields. “X-Ray Heating and the Optical Light
Curve of HZ Herculis.” 143rd Meeting of the American Astronomical
Society, Rochester, New York, August 1974. [Abstract] Bulletin of the
American Astronomical Society, volume 6 (1974), page 304.

Petrasso, R. D., S. W. Kahler, A. S. Krieger, J. K. Silk, and G. S. Vaiana. “The
Location of the Site of Energy Release in an X-Ray Sub-Flare.” Presented
at the Solar Physics Division Meeting of the American Astronomical Society,

444 / Smithsonian Year 1975
Boulder, Colorado, January 1975. [Abstract] Bulletin of the American Astro-
nomical Society, volume 7 (1975), page 352.

Reeves, E. M. “A Solar Observatory in Space: Initial Results and Mission
Assessment.” American Astronautical Society Meeting, Los Angeles, Cali-
fornia, August 1974.

. “ATM Observations: UV Results.” International Astronomical Union

Colloquium number 27, UV and X-Ray Spectroscopy of Astrophysical and

Laboratory Plasmas, Cambridge, Massachusetts, September 1974.

. “Solar EUV Observations from the Harvard ATM Spectrometer.”

Royal Society British National Committee on Space Research Meeting,

London, England, January 1975.

. “A Review of the Harvard Results from Skylab.” Special Colloquium
Series on Skylab Experiments, University of Maryland, Baltimore, Maryland,
March 1975.

Reeves, E. M., J. G. Timothy, P. V. Foukal, M. C. E. Huber, R. W. Noyes,
E. J. Schmahl, J. E. Vernazza, and G. L. Withbroe. “Initial Results from the
EUV Spectroheliometer on ATM.” American Institute of Aeronautics and
Astronautics/American Geophysical Union Conference on the Scientific
Experiments on Skylab, Huntsville, Alabama, October 1974.

Reeves, E. M., J. Vernazza, and G. Withbroe. “The Quiet Sun in the Extreme
Ultraviolet.” Royal Astronomical Society, British National Committee on
Space Research Meeting, London, England, January 1975.

Rybicki, G., and P. Harrison. “Wiener Filtering of Sampled Astronomical
Spectra.” 143rd Meeting of the American Astronomical Society, Rochester,
New York, August 1974. [Abstract] Bulletin of the American Astronomical
Society, volume 6 (1974), page 306.

Schmahl, E. J. “Eruptive Prominences in the EUV: Observations with the
Harvard Spectrometer on ATM.” Solar Physics Division Meeting, Amer-
ican Astronomical Society, Boulder, Colorado, January 1975. [Abstract]
Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society, volume 7 (1975), page 348.

Schmahl, E. J., J. T. Grasling, J. D. Bohlin, A. S. Krieger, and E. Tandberg-
Hanssen. “A Review of Skylab/ATM Observations and Analyses of Coronal
Transients.” 18th International COSPAR Meeting, Varna, Bulgaria, June
ile irfoys

Schnopper, H. W. “Radiative Electron Capture and Bremsstrahlung.” Inter-
national Conference on X-Ray Processes in Matter, Helsinki, Finland, July
1974.

. “Radiative Electron Capture and Bremsstrahlung.” Seminar of the

FOM Institute for Atomic and Molecular Physics, Amsterdam, The Nether-

lands, November 1974.

. “Laboratory Aspects of X-Ray Astronomy.” Centre National de la

Recherche Scientifique Colloquium, University of Paris, Orsay, France,

November 1974.

. “Radiative Electron Capture and Bremsstrahlung.” Colloquium, In-

stitute Marie and Pierre Curie, University of Paris, Paris, France, November

1974.

“The ANS Hard X-Ray Experiment.” Netherlands Astronomical
Association, Groningen, Holland, January 1975.

Schreier, E. J. “The Binary X-Ray Sources.” Seminar at the University of
Amsterdam, The Netherlands, January 1975.

Sekanina, Z. “Progress in Our Understanding of Cometary Dust Tails.”
International Astronomical Union Colloquium number 25, Study of Comets,
Greenbelt, Maryland, October 1974.

. “A Continuing Controversy: Has the Cometary Nucleus been Re-

solved?” International Astronomical Union Colloquium number 25, Study

of Comets, Greenbelt, Maryland, October 1974.

. “Modeling of Motions of Vaporizing Dust Particles in the Solar

Appendix 8. Selected Contributions of the Staff / 445
System.” International Astronomical Union Colloquium number 31, Inter-

planetary Dust and Zodiacal Light, Heidelberg, Germany, June 1975.

. “Predicted Favorable Visibility Conditions for Anomalous Tails of
Comets.” International Astronomical Union Colloquium number 31, Inter-
planetary Dust and Zodiacal Light, Heidelberg, Germany, June 1975.

Silk, J. K., S. W. Kahler, A. S. Krieger, and G. S. Vaiana. “Time Changes in
the Structure and Spectrum of an X-Ray Flare.’ Solar Physics Division
Meeting, American Astronomical Society, Boulder, Colorado, January 1975.
[Abstract] Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society, volume 7 (1975),
page 355.

Smith, B. A., A. F. Cook II, W. A. Feibelman, and R. F. Beebe. “On a Suspected
Ring External to the Visible Rings of Saturn.” International Astronomical
Union Colloquium number 28, Planetary Satellites, Ithaca, New York,
August 1974.

Tananbaum, H. D., and J. B. Hutchings. “Parameters of X-Ray Binaries.”
Seventh Texas Symposium on Relativistic Astrophysics, Dallas, Texas,
December 1974.

Timothy, J. G. “The Relationship between Coronal Bright Points and the
Chromospheric Network.” Solar Physics Division Meeting, American As-
tronomical Society, Boulder, Colorado, January 1975. [Abstract] Bulletin of
the American Astronomical Society, volume 7 (1975), page 350.

. “Photon-Counting Detector Arrays Based on Micro-Channel Array
Plates.” International Conference on Image Processing Techniques in
Astronomy, Utrecht, The Netherlands, March 1975.

Timothy, J. G., and E. M. Reeves. “Preliminary Results from the Harvard
ATM Calibration Rocket Program.” American Institute of Aeronautics and
Astronautics/American Geophysical Union Conference on the Scientific
Experiments on Skylab, Huntsville, Alabama, October 1974.

. “Measurements of the Absolute Solar Flux at Extreme Ultraviolet
Wavelengths from the ATM and ATM Calibration Rocket Spectrohelio-
meters.” American Geophysical Union Winter Meeting, San Francisco,
California, December 1974. [Abstract] Transactions of the American
Geophysical Union, volume 56 (1974), page 1156.

Traub, W. A. “Doppler Velocities in the Venus Atmosphere.” Conference on
the Atmosphere of Venus, Goddard Institute for Space Studies, New York,
October 1974.

Vaiana, G. S. “The X-Ray Corona from Skylab.” Royal Society Meeting, The
Physics of the Solar Atmosphere, London, January 1975.

. “The Solar X-Ray Corona: New Insights from Skylab.” Center for
Astrophysics Colloquium, Cambridge, Massachusetts, April 1975.

Vaiana, G. S., A. S. Krieger, A. F. Timothy, and M. Zombeck. “ATM Obser-
vations, X-Ray Results.” International Astronomical Union Colloquium
number 27, UV and X-Ray Spectroscopy of Astrophysical and Laboratory
Plasmas, Cambridge, Massachusetts, September 1974.

Vernazza, J. E. “Time Variations in the EUV Line Emission from the Chromo-
sphere and Corona.” Presented at the Solar Physics Division Meeting of
the American Astronomical Society, Boulder, Colorado, January 1975.
[Abstract] Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society, volume 7 (1975),
page 365.

Vessot, R. F. C. “Applications of Frequency Standards.” Fifth International
Conference on Atomic Masers and Related Constants, Paris, France, June
1975.

Victor, G. A., and A. Dalgarno. “Theoretical Studies of Transition Probabil-
ities.” International Astronomical Union Colloquium number 27, UV and
X-Ray Spectroscopy of Astrophysical and Laboratory Plasmas, Cambridge,
Massachusetts, September 1974.

446 / Smithsonian Year 1975

Victor, G. A., A. Dalgarno, K. K. Docken, and M. Oppenheimer. “Solar
Ultraviolet Intensities and Atmospheric Parameter.” American Geophysical
Union Winter Meeting, San Francisco, California, December 1974.

Victor, G. A., and C. Laughlin. “Intercombination Oscillator Strengths in the
Be, Mg, and Ca Isoelectronic Sequences.” International Astronomical Union
Colloquium number 27, UV and X-Ray Spectroscopy of Astrophysical and
Laboratory Plasmas, Cambridge, Massachusetts, September 1974.

Walker, R. C., K. Y. Lo, B. F. Burke, J. M. Moran, and K. J. Johnston. “VLBI
Observations of Cygnus A.” 144th Meeting of the American Astronomical
Society, Gainesville, Florida, December 1974. [Abstract] Bulletin of the
American Astronomical Society, volume 6 (1974), page 461.

Weinberg, S. “Problems in Gauge Field Theories.” XVIIth International
Conference in High Energy Nuclear Physics, London, England, July 1974.

. “Astrophysical Implications of the New Theories of Weak Inter-

actions.” Seventh Texas Symposium on Relativistic Astrophysics, Dallas,

Texas, December 1974.

. “Developments in Gauge Theories.” Eastern Theoretical Physics Con-

ference, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, March

1975.

. “Astrophysics and Weak Interaction Theory.
Society Meeting, Washington, D. C., April 1975.

Whipple, F. L. “The Nucleus: Comments.” International Astronomical Union
Colloquium number 25, Study of Comets, Greenbelt, Maryland, October
1974.

. “Do Comets Play a Role in Galactic Chemistry and y-Ray Bursts?”

Dynamical Astronomy Division Meeting, American Astronomical Society,

Tampa, Florida, December 1974. [Abstract] Bulletin of the American

Astronomical Society, volume 7 (1975), page 343.

. “Minor Bodies and Satellites.” American Geophysical Union/American

Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics Symposium on Planetary Ex-

ploration, San Francisco, California, December 1974.

. “Do Comets Play a Role in Galactic Chemistry and y-Ray Bursts?”

Meeting of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration Planetary

Program Principal Investigators Conference, Pasadena, California, March

1975.

. “Comets and Solar Electric Propulsion.” American Institute of Aero-
nautics and Astronautics, New Orleans, Louisiana, March 1975.

Whipple, F. L., and M. Lecar. “Comet Formation Induced by the Solar Wind.”
International Astronomical Union Colloquium number 25, Study of Comets,
Greenbelt, Maryland, October 1974.

Willson, R. F., and E. J. Chaisson. “Radiofrequency Observations of the Trifid
Nebula.” 143rd Meeting of the American Astronomical Society, Rochester,
New York, August 1974. [Abstract] Bulletin of the American Astronomical
Society, volume 6 (1974), page 350.

Withbroe, G. L. “Energy Balance in the Lower Corona. Implications with
Regard to the Solar Wind and Coronal Heating.” Solar Theoretical Work-
shop, Kitt Peak National Observatory, Tucson, Arizona, October 1974.

. “EUV Spectroscopy with the Harvard Skylab Experiment.” Annual
Meeting of the Optical Society of America, Houston, Texas, October 1974.

Withbroe, G. L., and D. T. Jaffe. “Polar Transients Observed in the EUV.”
Presented at the Solar Physics Division Meeting of the American Astro-
nomical Society, Boulder, Colorado, January 1975. [Abstract] Bulletin of
the American Astronomical Society, volume 7 (1975), page 354.

Wood, J. A. “Origin of the Earth’s Moon.” International Astronomical Union
Colloquium number 28, Planetary Satellites, Ithaca, New York, August 1974.

Wright, F. W. “An Identification Atlas of the Small Magellanic Cloud.” 144th

u”

American Physical

Appendix 8. Selected Contributions of the Staff / 447
Meeting of the American Astronomical Society, Gainesville, Florida, Decem-
ber 1974. [Abstract] Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society, volume
6 (1974), page 462.

Zeilik, M. “Personal Experience with PSI.” Earth Science Department Collo-
quium, University of Northern Iowa, Cedar Falls, lowa, August 1974.

. Far Infrared Astronomy of H II Regions.” University of New Mexico,
Albuquerque, May 1975.

Zeilik, II, M., and R. J. Bieniek. “PSI Astronomy at Harvard.” 143rd Meeting
of the American Astronomical Society, Rochester, New York, August 1974.
[Abstract] Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society, volume 6 (1974),
page 331.

Zuckerman, B., B. E. Turner, D. R. Johnson, F. O. Clark, F. J. Lovas, N.
Fourikis, M. Morris, P. Palmer, C. A. Gottlieb, A. E. Lilley, M. M. Litvak,
and H. Penfield. “Ethyl Alcohol Detected in Interstellar Space.” 144th
Meeting of the American Astronomical Society, Gainesville, Florida, Decem-
ber 1974. [Abstract] Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society, volume
6 (1974), page 443.

SMITHSONIAN SCIENCE INFORMATION EXCHANGE, INC.
SEMINARS AND WORKSHOPS

Carlson, W. T. “Grain Sorghum Research Registered at SSIE.” Sorghum-Millet
Information Workshop, AID, Department of State, Washington, D. C., May
ip akey ie yfeoy

. “Agricultural Research Information Retrieval from SSIE.” Department
of Agronomy, University of Nebraska, Lincoln, Nebraska, May 22, 1975.

Harper, Robert. “Solvent Effects in Nucleophilic Displacements on Halogen by
Triphenylphosphine Leading to Alpha-sulfonyl Carbanions.”” Organic Chem-
istry Division Seminar, University of Maryland, College Park, Maryland,
January 28, 1975.

. “Solvent Effects in Nucleophilic Displacements on Halogen by Tri-
phenylphosphine Leading to Alpha-sulfonyl Carbanions.” Physical Chemistry
Division Seminar, University of Maryland, College Park, Maryland, March
26, 1975.

Hersey, D. F. “Role of the Smithsonian Science Information Exchange in the
Collection, Storage and Utilization of Information About Ongoing Research
in Science and Technology.” Meeting of the Association of Records Execu-
tives and Administrators, Washington, D. C., June 17, 1975.

Lucas, Charles W., Jr. “Fermi Motion Corrections to the Pion-Nucleus Optical
Potential.” 1975 Spring Meeting of the American Physical Society, Wash-
ington, D. C., April 30, 1975.

SMITHSONIAN TROPICAL RESEARCH INSTITUTE
LECTURES AND SEMINARS

Dressler, Robert L. “Orquideas de Panama.” Club de Plantas y Flores de
Panama, September.

. “How to Study Orchids Without Any Orchids.” Eighth World Orchid

Conference, Frankfurt, April.

. “Orchids of Panama.” Canal Zone Orchid Society, Balboa, Canal

Zone, October.

, Judge. Annual Flower Show, Club de Jardineria, Panama, R. P. June.

Glynn, Peter W. “Coral Reef Studies in the Eastern Pacific.” Isthmian Chapter,
American Photogramic Society, Balboa, Canal Zone, April.

. “Studies With Air-Breathing Fishes.” Isthmian Scientific Society,

Balboa, Canal Zone, June.

448 / Smithsonian Year 1975
Graham, Jeffrey B. “Heat Exchange in Warm-Bodied Fishes.” San Diego State
University, California, also National Marine Fisheries Service, Honolulu,
Hawaii, October.

. “Adaptations for Diving in Pelamis platurus.” International Congress

of Physiologists, New Delhi and Bhagalpur, India, October.

. “Respiratory Adaptations of Marine Air-Breathing Fishes.” Inter-

national Congress of Physiologists, New Delhi and Bhagalpur, India,

October.

. “Respiratory Adaptations of Marine Air-Breathing Fishes.” Florida
State University, Tallahassee, and University of Massachusetts, Amherst,
February.

Leigh, Egbert G., Jr. “The Theory of Sex Ratio and of Sex Change in Relation
to Male Dimorphism and Sex Change in the Bluehead Wrasse,” lectures.
Princeton University, Universities of Maryland, Michigan, Utah, and Wis-
consin, April and May.

. “Leaf Production, Consumption by Herbivores, and Modes of Regula-

tion of Herbivore Numbers on Barro Colorado Island,” lectures. Colorado

State University; Stanford University; University of California at Berkeley,

Los Angeles, Santa Barbara; University of Chicago. Also at the Arboreal

Folivore Conference, Barro Colorado Island, Canal Zone, April and May.

. “Structure and Physiognomy of Rain Forests, Lowland and Montane,
Around the World, lectures. University of California, Santa Barbara; Scripps
Institute of Oceanography; Colorado State University, April and May.

Linares, Olga F. “The Past and Present Distribution of Swidden Cultivation
in Latin America,” seminar on the ecology of Latin America. University
of California, Los Angeles, November.

. “On the Mode of Production in Two Tropical Societies.” American

Anthropological Society Meeting, Mexico City, D. F., November.

. “Conceptos Ecoldgicos sobre el Periodo Formativo en Centroamérica

y Panama.” V° Symposio Nacional de Antropologia, Arqueologia y Etno-

logia, Universidad de Panama, Panama, R. P., December.

. “Prehistoria y Ecologia en Panama.” Universidad de Santa Maria La

Antigua, Colon, Panama, June.

. “La Arqueologia de Panama.” Colegio América, Panama, R. P., June.

. “La Arqueologia Panamefia y las Cultures Nucleares en el Nuevo
Mundo,” public lecture, organized by the Mexican Embassy in Panama.
June.

Linares, Olga F., with Richard Cooke. “Differential Exploitation of Marine
Resources on the Atlantic vs. the Pacific Coast of Western Panama.” Society
for American Archaeology, 40th Annual Meeting, Dallas, Texas, May.

Macintyre, Ian G., and Peter W. Glynn. “Internal Structure and Develop-
mental Stages of a Modern Caribbean Fringe Reef, Galeta Point, Panama.”
Presented at the 7th Caribbean Geological Conference, Guadaloupe, July 1-5,
1974.

Moynihan, Martin H. “Fluctuations in Neotropical Faunas,” seminar sponsored
by Latin American Center, University of California, Los Angeles. November.

Rand, A. Stanley. “Reptiles as Arboreal Folivores.’” Arboreal Folivore Con-
ference, Barro Colorado Island, Canal Zone, May.

. “The Behavior and Neurology of Lizards.” Arboreal Folivore Con-

ference, Barro Colorado Island, Canal Zone, May.

. “Behavioral Ecology of Lizards.” Arboreal Folivore Conference, Barro
Colorado Island, Canal Zone, May.

Robinson, Michael H. “The Ethology of Web-Building Spiders.” Oxford
University, Oxford, England, February.

Smith, Alan P. “Introduction to Ecology,” Undergraduate lectures for course
taught at University of Pennsylvania, Fall Term, 1974.

Appendix 8. Selected Contributions of the Staff / 449
Smith, Neal G. “Population Explosion in the Day-Flying Moth Urania in the
Neotropics,” lectures. Universities of Texas; California at Berkeley, Davis,
Santa Barbara; British Columbia; and Cornell, Harvard, Princeton, Stanford,
and Washington (St. Louis) Universities. November—January.

. “Strategies and Counter-Strategies by Avian Hosts and Their Para-
sites,” lectures. Universities of Texas; California at Berkeley, Davis, Santa
Barbara; British Columbia; and Cornell, Harvard, Princeton, Stanford, and
Washington (St. Louis) Universities. November—January.

Wolda, Hindrik. “Fluctuations in Abundance of Some Homoptera in a Neo-
tropical Forest.” Third International Symposium on Tropical Ecology,
Lubumbashi, Zaire, April.

Wolda, Hindrik, and Robin Foster. “Zunacetha annulata, an Outbreak Insect
in a Tropical Forest.” Third International Symposium on Tropical Ecology,
Lubumbashi, Zaire, April.

HISTORY AND ART

ARCHIVES OF AMERICAN ART

LECTURES AND SEMINARS

Brown, Robert. “Preservation of Architectural Records.” Society of Archi-
tectural Historians, Boston, April 1975.

Karlstrom, Paul. “American Genre Painting.” Oakland Museum, Oakland,
California, October 1974.

McCoy, Garnett. “Radical Art and Radical Politics, 1910-1930: Some Notes
on American Connections.” University of Delaware, Newark, Delaware,
April 1975.

COOPER-HEWITT MUSEUM

Rohlfing, Christian. “Art Deco-Will It Survive?” lecture. National Home
Fashions League, Plaza Ballroom, New York, November 19, 1974.

, judge. National Student Competition of Textile Design sponsored by

the Sterling Silver Association, May 7-8, 1975.

, judge. National Design Competition of Textile Design sponsored by

Riegel Textile Corporation, May 9, 1975.

, judge. National Competition of Needlework sponsored by Ladies

Home Journal, New York, June 6, 1975.

. Radio interview on Cooper-Hewitt for Municipal Art Society program.

Department of Drawings and Prints

Dee, Elaine. Lecture on Winslow Homer Exhibition in London. Victoria and
Albert Museum, London.

Textile Department

Sonday, Milton. “The Structures of Fabrics,” lecture for conservation students
of the University of Delaware. Winterthur, September 20, 1974.

. “Fabrics of the 20th century,” lecture for the Philadelphia Guild of

Handweavers. November 7, 1974.

. “Fibers in Fabrics and Their Uses,” lecture for the New York School

on Continuing Education. New York University, November 26, 1974.

, consultant. Advice on care and storage of fabrics and other objects in

the Frick collection in the 5th Avenue house of Mr. and Mrs. Henry Clay

Frick.

450 / Smithsonian Year 1975
Wallpaper Collection

Frangiamore, Catherine. “The Paper Revolution.” Historic Deerfield Summer
Series, Deerfield, Massachusetts, July 15, 1974.

. “18th and 19th Century Wallpaper.” Friends of the Mint, Mint

Museum, Charlotte, North Carolina, September 13, 1974.

. “Wallpaper, Fabrics and Needlework in America, 1865-1914.” Mid-

west Antiques Forum, Henry Ford Museum and Greenfield Village, Dear-

born, Michigan, October 9, 1974.

. “The Paper Revolution.” International Garden Club, Bartow-Pell

Mansion, Pelham, New York, October 17, 1974.

. “18th and 19th Century Wallpapers in America.” Evening at Emory

Series, Emory University, Atlanta, Georgia, October 27, 1974.

. “Wallpapers of the 1880’s.”” Victorian Society Workshop, The Victorian

Society in America, Atheneum, Philadelphia, November 1, 1974.

. “The Paper Revolution.” Natchez Antiques Forum, Natchez, Miss-

issippi, November 14, 1974.

PREER GALEERY OF ART
LECTURES

Atil, Esin. “The Islamic Book.” Regional Council for International Education,
Cleveland, Ohio, October 1974.

. “Arab Painting.” United States State Department, Foreign Service

Institute, Arlington, Virginia, February 1975.

. “Firdausi and the Shahname.” American Turkish Association, George

Washington University, Washington, D. C., February 1975.

. “Art of the Book.” Middle East Institute, Washington, D. C., February

1975.

. “Islamic Miniature Painting.”” United States State Department, Foreign

Service Institute, Arlington, Virginia, February 1975.

. “Paintings from Arab Lands.” Welcome to Washington, Freer Gallery

of Art, March 1975.

. “Illustrated Islamic Manuscripts.” The Municipal Art Society of

Baltimore City, Maryland, April 1975.

“Illustrated Turkish Histories.” Center of Near Eastern Studies,

Harvard University, April 1975.

. “Painting in Islam.” United States State Department, Foreign Service

Institute, Arlington, Virginia, April 1975.

. “Ottoman History through the Works of the Court Painters.” Depart-

ment of Art, University of Chicago, Illinois, June 1975.

. “Formative Years of Islamic Art.’” United States State Department,
Foreign Service Institute, Arlington, Virginia, June 1975.

Chase, W. Thomas, III. “Metallographic Samples from Chinese Bronzes.”
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, July 1974.

. “My Trip to China.” Annie Fisher Elementary School, Hartford,

Connecticut, October 1974.

. “My Trip to China.” Bolton Congregational Church, Bolton, Connecti-

cut, October 1974.

. “China—Past and Present.” Group from China Trade Museum and

Essex Institute, Massachusetts, Mayflower Hotel, Washington, D. C.,

February 1975.

. “Examination and Treatment of Chinese Bronzes.” The Winterthur

Program in the Conservation of Artistic and Historic Objects, Delaware,

April 1975.

. “My Trip to China.” The Winterthur Program in the Conservation

of Artistic and Historic Objects, Delaware, April 1975.

Appendix 8. Selected Contributions of the Staff / 451
“Conservation in the People’s Republic of China.” International
Institute for Conservation of Historic and Artistic Works, Stockholm,
Sweden, June 1975.

Hobbs, Susan. “Charles Lang Freer as a Patron of American Art. Part I: The
Art of Thomas Dewing, Abbott Thayer and Dwight Tryon.” Smithsonian
Associates, Freer Gallery of Art, May 1975.

. “Charles Lang Freer as a Patron of American Art. Part II: The Art of
James McNeill Whistler.” Smithsonian Associates, Freer Gallery of Art, May
1975.

Lawton, Thomas. “Neolithic and Shang Art in China.” George Washington
University, Sino-Soviet Institute, Washington, D. C., September 1974.

“Chou Dynasty Bronze Vessels.” George Washington University,

Sino-Soviet Institute, Washington, D. C., September 1974.

. “The Sixtieth Painting: An Ancient Theme Reidentified.” Asian Arts

Society, Washington University, St. Louis, Missouri, October 1974.

. “Chinese Buddhist Art.” George Washington University, Sino-Soviet

Institute, Washington, D. C., November 1974.

. “Zen Art in China.” George Washington University, Sino-Soviet

Institute, Washington, D. C., November 1974.

. “Recent Archaeological Finds in the People’s Republic of China.”

George Washington University, Sino-Soviet Institute, Washington, D. C.,

December 1974.

. “Recent Archaeological Finds in the People’s Republic of China.”

Cosmos Club, Washington, D. C., December 1974.

. “Recent Archaeological Finds in the People’s Republic of China.”

Archaeological Institute of America, Washington, D. C., January 1975.

. “Early Chinese Landscape Painting.” George Washington University,

Sino-Soviet Institute, Washington, D. C., January 1975.

. “Recent Archaeological Finds in the People’s Republic of China.”

National Academy of Science, Washington, D. C., January 1975.

. “Yiian Dynasty Painting.” George Washington University, Sino-Soviet

Institute, Washington, D. C., January 1975.

. “Ming Dynasty Painting.” George Washington University, Sino-Soviet

Institute, Washington, D. C., February 1975.

. “The Sixtieth Painting: An Ancient Theme Reidentified.” Harvard

University, Cambridge, Massachusetts, February 1975.

. “Recent Archaeological Finds in the People’s Republic of China.”

Washington Club, Washington, D. C., February 1975.

. “Reflections on the Chinese Exhibition.” Princeton University, Prince-

ton, New Jersey, March 1975.

. “Ch’ing Dynasty Painting.” George Washington University, .Sino-

Soviet Institute, Washington, D. C., March 1975.

“Chinese Connoisseurship.” George Washington University, Sino-

Soviet Institute, Washington, D. C., March 1975.

. “Reflections on the Chinese Exhibition.” Museum Rietberg, Ziirich,

Switzerland, May 1975.

. “Bronze Ritual Vessels of the Shang and Chou Dynasty.” University
of Missouri, Kansas City, Missouri, June 1975.

Lovell, Hin-cheung. “Chinese Ceramics in the Freer Gallery of Art.” Smith-
sonian Associates, Freer Gallery of Art, October 1974.

Stern, Harold P. “Tokugawa Popular Paintings of Japan.” Museum of Fine
Arts, Boston, Massachusetts, February 1975.

Winter, John. “The Scanning Electron Microscope in the Study of Carbon
Pigments.” The Pacific Conference on Spectroscopy, San Francisco, Cali-
fornia, October 1974.

um

452 / Smithsonian Year 1975
HILLWOOD

Ross, Marvin C. “Russian Art at Hillwood,” talk for group going on a tour of
Russia, organized by the Graduate School of the U. S. Department of
Agriculture, September 1974.

“Russian Porcelains at Hillwood,” lecture. Smithsonian Resident

Associates Program, February 1975.

. “The Hillwood Collections,” lecture. National Collection of Fine Arts

staff, April 1975.

. “The Hillwood Collections,” lecture. Lake Forest (Illinois) Academy

Antique Show Press Party, May 1975.

HIRSHHORN MUSEUM AND SCULPTURE GARDEN

LECTURES AND SEMINARS

Garson, Inez. “The Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden.” Washington,
D. C., NBC-TV, October 19, 1974.

. “Late Nineteenth and Early Twentieth Century American Art.” Polish
Television, December 1974.

Lawson, Edward P. “Principles of Museum Work.” Art History 146, George
Washington University, September 1974—April 1975.

. Series of lectures on the Museum collections. Second Hirshhorn

Museum and Sculpture Garden docent class, January 7, 1975—April 15, 1975.

“Museum Administration,” lecture. Museology-Anthropology 291,

George Washington University, January 29, 1975 and February 26, 1975.

. Talk on Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden with slides, video-

taped by Northeastern Illinois University for production on University

station, March 14, 1975.

. Talk on Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden with slides to

advanced painting class. Northeastern Illinois University, March 15, 1975.

. “The Training of Museum Docents.” Smithsonian Institution Museum

Programs sponsored course, April 4-17, 1975.

. “20th Century Painting and Sculpture, Sculpture 1945-present.” Hirsh-

horn Study Tours, April 12, 19, 21; May 3 and 31, 1975.

, tour leader. Smithsonian Associates Study Tour to Falling Water in
Bear Run, Pennsylvania, October 26, 1974.

Lerner, Abram, and Edward Lawson. “The Hirshhorn Museum,’
cast, WAMU-FM, Washington, D. C., November 25, 1974.
McCabe, Cynthia J. “Museum Curators,” Northeast Museums Conference,

Buffalo, New York, October 30, 1974.
. “The Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden Collection,” lecture.
ARLIS/D.C. Chapter, Washington, D. C., November 6, 1974.
. “AAM Curators’ Committee,” American Association of Museums
Curatorship Seminar, Washington, D. C., January 27, 1974.

“Material Aspects of American Civilization: Immigrant Artists,”
lecture. George Washington University, Washington, D. C., June 18, 1975.
Tighe, Mary Ann. 20 half hour TV programs tracing the history of American

art from colonial times to the present. Art America television series, pro-
duced in conjunction with Northern Virginia Community College’s Extended
Learning Institute and the Instructional Television Cooperative.
. “Contemporary Sculpture in the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture
Garden Collection. Georgetown University Course, January through May.
. “Nineteenth Century Sculpture.” Smithsonian Associates Lectures,
April 12, 1975 and May 31, 1975.
. “Nineteenth Century Painting.” Smithsonian Associates Lectures,
April 17, 1975.

,

radio broad-

Appendix 8. Selected Contributions of the Staff / 453
. “Painting Since 1945.” Smithsonian Associates Lectures, April 21, 1975.

. “Thomas Hart Benton.” Smithsonian Associates Lectures, April 7, 1975.

. “Art in the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Gallery Collection.”
University of Chicago Alumni, January 26, 1975; and Vassar College Alumni,
Fall 1974.

Ultan, Roslye B., and Mary Ann Tighe. “Surrealism.” Smithsonian Associates
Course, Washington, D. C., April-June 1975.

. “The Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden Collection.” Radio
broadcast, Museum Forum, Richmond, Virginia, April 1975.

Weil, Stephen E. The Artist and the Marketplace, panel presentation. Hirsh-
horn Museum and Sculpture Garden, February 26, 1975.

Zilczer, Judith K. “Robert T. Coady: Forgotten Spokesman for Avant-Garde
Culture in America,” lecture. Fifth Annual Symposium on American Art,
cosponsored by the University of Delaware and the National Collection of
Fine Arts, University of Delaware, Newark, April 18, 1975.

. “Art in America: 1900-1925.” Smithsonian Associates Course, Wash-

ington, D. C., April-June 1975.

JOSEPH HENRY PAPERS

LECTURES AND SEMINARS

Aldrich, Michele L. “Science and Politics in Jacksonian New York.” Nineteenth
Century Seminar, Smithsonian Institution, September 25, 1974.

. “Historical Editing,” Panel Discussion on Careers in History Other
Than Teaching. History Department, Columbia University, April 7, 1975.
Hobbins, James M. “The Albany Institute and Vicissitudes in the Learned
Culture,” American Academy of Arts and Sciences’ Symposium on Knowl-

edge in American Society, 1860-1920, Newagen, Maine, June 1975.
Lepley, Beverly Jo. “The Dilemma of Epilepsy.” Virginia Licensed Practical
Nurses Association, March 18, 1975, The Hermitage, Alexandria, Virginia
Molella, Arthur P. “The Origins of Science,” three credit lecture course.
University of Maryland, Fall 1974.
Reingold, Nathan. “World War I: the Case of the Disappearing Laboratory.”
Organization of American Historians, Boston, April 18, 1975.
. National Science Policy in a Private Foundation: the Carnegie In-
stitution of Washington, 1902-1920.” American Academy of Arts and
Sciences’ Symposium on Knowledge in American Society, 1860-1920,
Newagen, Maine, June 1975.
. “Hanged and Electrocuted: Joseph Henry’s Experiments on the Mur-
derer LeBlanc.” Washington History of Medicine Club, November 14, 1974.
. “Preview of Volume Two of the Henry Papers.” Smithsonian Asso-
ciates, September 22, 1974.

NATIONAL COLLECTION OF FINE ARTS

LECTURES AND SEMINARS

Bassing, Allen. “Intra Cultural Conflict, The Ashanti of Ghana—a Case Study,”
lecture. Conference on Working Papers in Culture and Communication,
Temple University, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. March 1975.

. “The Social, Historical and Architectural Background of the Renwick,”

lecture series. Smithsonian Associates, March-April 1975.

, consultant/panelist. “Panel on Elementary and Secondary Education.”

National Endowment for the Arts, Washington, D. C., May 1975.

454 / Smithsonian Year 1975
Bermingham, Peter. “Barbizon Art In America,” lecture. American Studies
Class, Georgetown University, February 1975.

, panelist. “The Future of Art Symposium.” George Washington

University, March 1975.

Introduction and workshop discussion with Foreign Museum Di-
rectors. Sponsored by International Committee of Museums, U. S. De-
partment of State, May 1975.

Breeskin, Adelyn D., judge. “Shreveport Art Guild National Show.” Louisiana,
October 14, 1974.

. “The Cone Collection, lecture. “Baltimore Museum of Art, Baltimore,
Maryland, October 29, 1974.

Fink, Eleanor, panel moderator. “Computers, Information Retrieval, and Art.”
Annual Conference of the Art Libraries Society of North America, January
21975.

. “Computer Cataloging of Slides and Photograph Collections,” lecture.
Slide Librarianship: a Contemporary Survey Seminar. New York City,
May 5-7, 1975.

Flint, Janet, juror. Ninth Print and Drawing Competition. The Dulin Gallery
of Art, Knoxville, Tennessee, March 30—April 1, 1975.

. “The American Painter-Lithographer,” lecture. American Print Con-
ference, American Prints of the Nineteenth Century, Museum of Fine Arts,
Boston, Massachusetts, May 9-10, 1975.

Gordon, Margery. “Mobility in Art: An Innovative Approach to Children’s
Education Programs,” lecture. International Conference on Art Education,
Novi Sad, Yugoslavia, August 1974.

Grana, Teresa. “Unstuffing the Museum,” lecture. Montgomery Junior College,
Silver Spring, Maryland, April 1975.

Herman, Lloyd, juror. Northwest Crafts Show, Henry Gallery, University of
Washington, Seattle, Washington, January 6—7, 1975.

, juror. Craft Multiples Exhibition, Washington, D. C., February 6-9,

1975.

, juror. Design In Steel Awards, American Iron and Steel Institute,

Washington, D. C., February 10, 1975.

, juror. Craftsmen’s apprenticeship applications for the National En-

dowment for the Arts, Washington, D. C., March 15, 1975.

, judge. College Park Art Festival, Orlando, Florida. May 3-4, 1975.

, panelist. “The Crafts Explosion Panel.” Women’s National Democratic
Club, Washington, D. C., May 19, 1975.

Hopps, Walter. “40 Paintings from American Universities.” University Gallery,
University of Florida, Gainesville, Florida, November 24, 1974.

. “New Directions in American Art.” American Cultural Center, Paris,

France, January 16, 1975.

. “The NCFA Collection.” Austro-American Society, Vienna, Austria,

January 20, 1975.

. “Men and Women in Art: Power and Money.” Panel Discussion,

Women’s Caucus for Art Workshop, 63rd Annual Meeting of the College

Art Association of America, Washington, D. C., January 24, 1975.

. “California Art, 1953-1963.” Mount Holyoke College, South Hadley,

Massachusetts, March 5, 1975.

. “Current Art and Its Institutions,” dialogue with Lawrence Alloway.
Associated Students and Academic Affairs of San Francisco State University,
San Francisco, California, May 21, 1975.

Lowe, Harry, juror. “1974 Mid-States Exhibition.” Evansville, Indiana, October
28-29, 1974.

. “James Hampton’s Throne of the Third Heaven of the Nation’s

Appendix 8. Selected Contributions of the Staff / 455
Millenium General Assembly.” Wesleyan College, Macon, Georgia, January

13975:

. “Museums: Their Changing Roles,” panel discussion. Montgomery
College Art League, Montgomery College, Rockville, Maryland, April 15,
1975.

Lyons, Florine E., symposium participant. “Surrealism—A _ Celebration.”
Pennsylvania State University, University Park, Pennsylvania, November
1 OO TA.

Monroe, Michael W., judge. “Third Annual Invitational Crafts Exhibition.”
Norfolk, Virginia, July 5-6, 1974.

, juror. “First National Competition of the Enamelist Guild of Wash-

ington, D. C.,” October 20, 1974.

, juror. “In-Com-Co 1974 Art Show.” Interstate Commerce Commission,

Washington, D. C., November 11, 1974.

. “Tour of the Renwick and Current Programs,” lecture. International

Club. December 5, 1974.

. “Craft Exhibition Installation Techniques,” lecture. Bethesda Potters

Guild, Bethesda, Maryland, February 19, 1975.

. “Careers in Design,” lecture. McLean High School, McLean, Virginia,

April 29, 1975.

. “The History of the Renwick Gallery,” lecture. Vanderbilt University,

Nashville, Tennessee, May 1, 1975.

, judge. “Tennessee Arts and Crafts Association’s 4th Annual Fair,”

Nashville, Tennessee, May 2, 1975.

, juror. “Waterford Weavers Exhibition,” Reston, Virginia, May 5, 1975.

Muhlert, Jan K., judge. “The Washington Post Recreation Association. Third
Annual Arts, Crafts and Photograph Show.” Washington, D. C., December
6, 1974.

, judge. “Second Annual Photography Contest.” Smithsonian Associates,

Washington, D. C., February 26, 1975.

. “The Art Scene in Washington, lecture. Smithsonian Associates Class:

“The Quality of Life in Washington,” Washington, D. C., March 10, 1975.

. “The Rise of the American Avant-Garde: 1910-1930,” lecture. Na-
tional Collection of Fine Arts and Department of Art History, University
of Delaware Symposium, Newark, Delaware, April 18, 1975.

Myette, Ellen M. “Tour of the Renwick and Current Programs,” lecture.
International Club, December 5, 1974.

Taylor, Joshua C. “Mural Painting and the Public Image,” lecture. National
Academy of Design, New York City, November 13, 1974.

—. “Los Problemas de un Museo de Arte Nacional,” lecture. Caracas,

Venezuela, December 1974.

. “El Arte Visual y Valores Literarios,” lecture. Museo de Bellas Artes,

Caracas, Venezuela, December 1974.

. “Que Paso con la Vanguardia?” lecture. Universidad Central, Caracas,

Venezuela, December 1974.

. “The Religious Impulse in American Art,” lecture. Friends of Inde-

pendence National Historical Park Symposium: “Meaning in American Art,”

Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, April 15-17, 1975.

. “What Do You Teach An Artist?” lecture. Union of Independent

Colleges of Art Seminar, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, April 27, 1975.

. “The Art Museum and Its Public,” lecture. Western Association of

Museums Seminar, Portland, Oregon, May 1, 1975; Seattle, Washington,

May 5, 1975.

. “Art and Religious Impulse,” lecture. Society for the Arts, Religion

and Contemporary Culture, Inc., New York City, May 17, 1975.

. “An Environment for the Mind,” lecture. University of Chicago

Library Society, Chicago, Illinois, May 20, 1975.

456 / Smithsonian Year 1975
NATIONAL MUSEUM OF HISTORY AND TECHNOLOGY

LECTURES, SYMPOSIA, REPORTS, CONFERENCES,
INTERVIEWS, PERFORMANCES, AND RESTORATIONS

Adrosko, Rita J. “Nineteenth Century Furnishing Fabrics,” lecture. National
Museum of History and Technology, August 27, 1974.

. “Textiles in Poland,” lecture. Designer-Weaver Group, Washington,

D. C., November 16, 1974.

. “An Introduction to Household Textiles Used in America,” lecture.

Columbia University, New York, April 1, 1975.

. “18th Century American Weavers and Their Looms,” lecture. Textile
Museum Roundtable, Washington, D. C., April 12, 1975.

Ahlborn, Richard Eighme. “The Saints of San Xavier: Examples of Technology
in Spanish Colonial Sculpture.” Grand Quivira Conference, Santa Barbara,
California, October 1974.

. “The Log Grist Mill of Maximiano Cruz at Trampas, New Mexico.”

Grand Quivira Conference, Santa Barbara, California, October 1974.

. “Spanish Traditions in the United States.” The Spanish Heritage

Foundation, New York City, November 1974.

. “Hispanic Artistic Influences in The Southwest.” First in Series of

Lectures on Frontier America, The Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, January

1975:

. “Latin American Art Since Independence,” graduate course in History.

George Washington University, Washington, D. C., March 1975.

. “The Spanish Culture of New Mexico,” graduate course in American
Studies. Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D. C., April 1975.

Battison, Edwin A. “David Wilkinson’s Lathe: Key to Industrialization of the
United States.” XIV Congress for the History of Science, Tokyo, Japan,
August 22, 1974.

Boorstin, Daniel J. “Public Policy Goals for America.” National Legislative
Conference, Albuquerque, New Mexico, August 14, 1974.

. “New Direction in the Arts.” National Town Meeting, Kennedy

Center for the Performing Arts, Washington, D. C., August 21, 1974.

. “The Uses of History.” Brigham Young University Forum Assembly,

Brigham Young University, Provo, Utah, September 24, 1974.

. “Outlook for Space: 1980-2000.” SI-NASA-sponsored seminar at

Hammersmith Farm, Rhode Island, October 4-5, 1974.

. “The American Revolution: Purpose and Fulfillment.” Alma College,

Alma, Michigan, October 24, 1974.

. “A Historian’s Perspective on the U. S.” Association of National

Advertisers, Inc., Hot Springs, Virginia, October 28, 1974.

. “A New Look at American Technology.” Norfolk Forum, Norfolk,

Virginia, November 12, 1974.

. Keynote address at conference on “Youth and Democracy.” Com-

mittee of Seventy, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, November 21, 1974.

. “American Life and the Exploring Spirit.” American Historical

Library, Manila, Philippines, December 17, 1974.

. “What Historians Don’t Write About.” The National Historical Com-

mission, National Library, Manila, Philippines, December 18, 1974.

. “The New Nationalism,” convocation address. University of Santo

Tomas, Manila, Philippines, December 18, 1974.

. “The Educational Challenge in a Democracy.” Videotaped at U.S.1S.,

Manila, Philippines, December 19, 1974.

. “On American Education.” University of the Philippines, Manila,

Philippines, December 19, 1974.

. “New Subjects for Historians.” Chula University, Bangkok, Thailand,

December 27, 1974.

Appendix 8. Selected Contributions of the Staff / 457
. “Education in America.” Chiang Mai University, Chiang Mai, Thai-

land, January 3, 1975.

. “The American at School.” American University Association, Bangkok,

Thailand, January 6, 1975.

. “Thoughts on American History.” NIDA, Bangkok, Thailand, January

7, 1975.

. “On Historical Writing.” Thammasat University, Bangkok, Thailand,

January 9, 1975.

. “Advertising in American Civilization.” American Library Resource

Center, Singapore, January 13, 1975.

. “The Bias of Survival.” University of Singapore, Singapore, January

14, 1975.

. “A New Vocabulary for Historians.” Lincoln Cultural Center, Kuala

Lumpur, Malaysia, January 16, 1975.

. “The Great American Temptation.

Lumpur, Malaysia, January 17, 1975.

. “Art and the American Character.” Penang Museum and Gallery,

Penang, Malaysia, January 21, 1975.

. “The American Spirit of Exploration.

Bombay, India, January 23, 1975.

. “The New Role of Predictability.” Alexandria University, Alexandria,

Egypt, February 15, 1975.

. “The Historian’s Secret Weapon.

February 17, 1975.

. “A New Definition of the Exploring Spirit.” American University,

Cairo, Egypt, February 17, 1975.

. “Two American Transformations.” Association of Teachers of the

Social Studies, New York, February 22, 1975.

. “When Does the Future Begin?”” Museum of Art, Carnegie Institute,

Philadelphia, February 26, 1975.

. “The American Revolution, Promise and Fulfillment,” Harding Lecture.

South Dakota State University, Brookings, South Dakota, March 17, 1975.

. “America: Retrospect and Prospect.” Casper College, Casper,

Wyoming, March 21, 1975.

. “The New Challenge of Technology.” American Marketing Associa-

tion, Chicago, April 15, 1975.

. “Museum Magic: Transforming Things into Objects.” Eleutherian

Mills-Hagley—University of Delaware, Newark, Delaware, April 24, 1975.

. “Discovery of the Unknown.” Yale University, New Haven, June 24,
1975.

Bruns, Franklin R., Jr. “Your National Stamp Collection.” Seashore Stamp
Collectors’ Club, Marlborough-Blenheim Hotel, Atlantic City, N. J., March
dy 1975.

. “The Smithsonian and Its Stamp Collection.” The Collectors Club of

Washington, D. C., May 7, 1975.

. Radio Interviews, WNCN, New York, N. Y. July 14, 1974, with Lester
G. Brookman, “19th Century United States Stamps”; July 28, 1974, with
John Van Emden, “Philatelic Merchandising”; August 11, 1974, with Keith
Melder, “The Chautauque”; August 25, 1974, “Franklin D. Roosevelt—His
Stamps”; September 8, 1974, with Gordon H. Torrey, “The Near East, and
Expertization,” and September 22, 1974, with Donald Moler and John Flawn
Williams, “United States Postal Service and Its Stamp Program.”

Clain-Stefanelli, Elvira, member of the official jury for the selection of designs
for the national bicentennial coinage. Philadelphia, January 8-12, 1974; and
New York, February 28—March 2, 1974.

Clain-Stefanelli, Vladimir. “Numismatics in Israel.” The Israel Numismatic
Society of Maryland, April 3, 1974.

my

Universiti Kegangsaan, Kuala

”

American Cultural Center,

wy

Cairo University, Cairo, Egypt,

458 / Smithsonian Year 1975
Coffee, Barbara J. “We the People, A New Bicentennial Exhibition.” Rockville
American Association of University Women, May 17, 1975.

Cooper, Grace R. “The Machines, Mechanization of Textile and Clothing
Production.” Costume Society of America Symposium on America Dress,
National Museum of History and Technology, Washington, D. C., April 9,
1975.

Dirks, Katherine. “The Care and Preservation of Antique Textiles,” lecture.
County Extension Agents Training Conference, Purdue University, West
Lafayette, Indiana, January 21, 1975.

Davis, Audrey B. “Dentistry and History—Partners in Research.” American
Academy of History of Dentistry, Washington, D. C., November 8, 1974.

. “Medicine and Its Technology: A Retrospective View.” Yale Uni-

versity, Department of History of Science and Medicine, March 23,

1975.

. Microscope Symposium (organized and introduced three speakers),

Washington, D. C., National Museum of History and Technology, May 9,

1975.

. “Dentistry and Medicine: Some Factors in the Evolution of a Pro-

fession.”” Andrews Air Force Base, History of Dentistry Club, May 20, 1975.

. “Thomas Louis J. Auzoux and the Papier Mache Anatomical Model.”
International Conference on Wax Models, Florence, Italy, June 4, 1975.

Fesperman, John T. Organ Recital on 1831 Goodrich organ featuring American
music. Unitarian Church, Nantucket, Massachusetts, August, 1974.

. “Recent Trends in American Organ Design.” Organ Recital and

Lecture, Winston Churchill Memorial, Westminster, Missouri, October 20,

1974.

. “European Influences on American Organ Building.” Organ Recital

and Lecture, Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut, November 15, 1974.

. “Organ Music of Spain, Germany and France.” Organ Recital, Fourth

Annual Meeting, American Musical Instrument Society, New York, April 4,

1975.

. Organ Recital on the first modern American instrument designed in

classic style (1961). Mount Calvary Church, Baltimore, April 27, 1975.

. Organ Recital and Lecture on Organ Design. Community School for
the Arts, Charlotte, North Carolina, May 13, 1975.

Finn, Bernard S. “Historiographic Problems Associated with the Study of 19th
Century Electrical Technology.” Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore,
Maryland, October 18, 1974.

. “The Telegraph: How It Came To Be,” children’s program. KOMO-
TV, Seattle, Washington, February 23, 1975.

Forman, Paul. “Institutionalized Gatherings of Physicists: Forms and Functions
to 1914.” Joint Atlantic Seminar on the History of the Physical Sciences,
New Haven, March 21-22, 1975.

. “Illustrated Observations on the Building of Physical Laboratories at
the Turn of the Century.” Program in History and Philosophy of Science,
Princeton University, April 4, 1975.

Gardner, Paul V. “Reminiscences of Frederick Carder.
Seminar, October 1974.

. “Rarities in Glass.” Christ Child Seminar, Washington, D. C., April

1975.

. “The Glass of Frederick Carder.” Combined meeting of three Mary-
land Early American Glass Clubs, Aspen Hill Library, Maryland, April 18,
1975.

Goins, Craddock R., Seventh Congress of the International Association of
Arms and Military History, Paris, May 4-13, 1975.

Golovin, Anne C. “Collections and the Historian.” Seminar for Historical
Administrators, Williamsburg, Virginia, July 8, 1974.

a”

Corning Museum

Appendix 8. Selected Contributions of the Staff / 459
. “Furniture Makers of Washington, D. C., 1791-1840.” Columbia
Historical Society, Washington, D. C., May 21, 1975.

Haberstich, David E. “The History of Photography,” lecture course. University

_ of Maryland, College Park Campus, Fall Semester, 1974.

Hamarneh, Sami K. “Research Techniques, Historiography and the History of
Pharmacy.” Syrian Pharmaceutical Society, Damascus, Syria, October 23,
1974.

. “Pharmacy and Materia Medica of al-Biruni and al-Ghafigi.” Fourth

Congress of Arab Pharmacists, Cairo, Egypt, October 29-November 1, 1974.

. “Problems of Techno-Scientific Manuscripts from the Arabic Legacy.”

The Arab League, UNESCO, Cairo, Egypt, November 20, 1974.

. “Medicinal Herbs and Origins of Drug Therapy.” The Herb Society of
America, Potomac Unit, Washington, D. C., March 19, 1975.

Hindle, Brooke. “Science and Technology in the American Revolution.”
Adelphi-Hofstra Universities Institute: ““New Viewpoints on the American
Revolution,” Hofstra University, Hempstead, New York, July 31, 1974.

. “The Transfer of Technology and American Industrial Fairs to 1853.”

XIVth International Congress of the History of Science, Tokyo, Japan,

August 1974.

. “Preoccupation with Exhibits.” Museum Studies Conference, Uni-
versity of Delaware, Newark, Delaware, April 19, 1975.

Hoffman, John N. “Mechanization of the U. S. Coal Industry in the 19th
Century,” lecture. U. S. Army Mobilization Detachment, Washington, D. C.,
November 19, 1974. )

“Bicentennial Programs at the Smithsonian Institution,” lecture.

Middletown JayCees, Middletown, Pennsylvania, January 18, 1975.

. “Mining Collections at the Smithsonian Institution,” lecture. Pine

Ford Chapter, D. A. R., Middletown, Pennsylvania, February 10, 1975.

. “Collecting Business History at the Smithsonian,” Middletown Histor-

ical Society, Middletown, Pennsylvania, March 24, 1975.

“Coal—The Energy Source of the Future,” lecture. U. S. Army
Mobilization Detachment, Washington, D. C., May 20, 1975.

Hollis, Helen R. “Musical Instruments of the Baroque and Early Classical
Eras in the Smithsonian Institution,” a set of 56 slides with explanatory
notes and two cassette tapes for educational use (in cooperation with
Customer Services Branch of Photographic Services Division, Smithsonian),
1975.

Hollis, Helen R. Lecture-Demonstration on Musical Instruments (in French)
for Alliance Francaise. Hall of Musical Instruments, National Museum of
History and Technology, February 19, 1975.

. “Some Questions, Some Answers.” Lecture for the International Con-
ference on Musical Iconography, New York, April 26, 1975.

Hoover, Cynthia A, panelist. “Mechanical Instruments As A Source for
Musicological Research.” American Musicological Society, 40th Annual
National Meeting, Washington, D. C., November 2, 1974.

, chairman of session. “19th-Century Musical Instruments.” Fourth

Annual Meeting, American Musical Instrument Society, New York, April 5,

L975:

. “There’s A Good Time Coming! A Re-creation of American Music and

Ballroom Dance 1840-1860,” lecture. Music Teacher’s National Association

National Convention, Denver, April 10, 1975.

. “Music in Museums: The Music Program at the Smithsonian and

Career Opportunities in Museums and in American Music,” lecture. De-

partment of Music, Smith College, May 7, 1975.

. 19th-Century American Ballroom Music. Nonesuch Records, H-71313,

1975. (Record annotations and Smithsonian Coordinator).

um

460 / Smithsonian Year 1975
Jackson, Everett A. “Career Development in the Medical Sciences.” D. C.
Teachers Workshop and Career Development Program, National Museum of
Natural History, August 1, 1974.

. “Colonial Dentistry in America.” Lecture to Smithsonian Docents,

September 25. 1974.

. “The Smithsonian Institution Past and Present.” American Dental

Association, November 11, 1974.

. “Section of Dentistry.” Delegates to the American Academy of the
History of Dentistry, November 8, 1974.

Kidwell, Claudia B. Address on the exhibition “Suiting Everyone” and the
importance of university collections for research and study. Human De-
velopment College faculty, Cornell University, November 1974.

Klapthor, Margaret B. “Victorian Food Service.” Workshop of The Victorian
Society in America, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, November 1, 1974.

. “Charles County—1775.” Annual Meeting. Charles County, Maryland,
May 24, 1975.

Kloster, Donald E. “The Manufacture of Readymade Clothing in the United
States from 1800 to 1850.” Symposium of American Dress held by the
Costume Society of America, National Museum of History and Technology,
Washington, D. C., April 8, 1975.

Langley, Harold D. “Adventures in Flag Hunting,” address, Annual Meeting
of the North American Vexillological Association, Baltimore, Maryland,
October 13, 1974.

. “The Military and American Society,” graduate level course. Catholic

University of America, Washington, D. C., fall semester 1974.

—. “The Diplomatic History of the United States in the Twentieth Cen-

tury,” undergraduate level course. Catholic University of America, Wash-

ington, D. C., spring semester, 1975.

. “The Roosevelt-Churchill Relationship,” Radio interview with Ian
McIntyre. British Broadcasting Corporation, May 13, 1975.

Lundeberg, Philip K. “Shipbuilding in the United Colonies, as Revealed in the
Continental Gondola Philadelphia.” Conference of the International Com-
mission of Maritime History, National Maritime Museum, Greenwich,
London, England, July 6-10, 1974.

. “Time Capsule 1776: The Continental Gondola Philadelphia.” Con-

necticut Historical Society, Hartford, Connecticut, March 3-5, 1975.

. “Time Capsule 1776: The Continental Gondola Philadelphia.” Phila-

delphia Maritime Museum, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, May 7, 1975.

. “Time Capsule 1776: The Continental Gondola Philadelphia.” Historic
Naval Ships Association, Annapolis, Maryland, May 9, 1975.

Marzio, Peter C. “The History of a Democratic Art: From Copley to Pollack.”
Independence Park, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, April 16, 1975.

. “American Political Cartooning.” Popular Culture Association, Hofstra

University, April 17, 1975.

. “The Rise and Fall of the American Chromo: 1840-1940.” American

Print Conference, Boston Public Library, May 10, 1975.

. “Rube Goldberg and the Modern Engineer.” Louisiana Tech University,

April 30, 1975.

. “The American Etching Movement: 1875-1910.” The Martin Luther
King Library, Washington, D. C., May 20, 1975.

Mayo, Edith P. “Contemporary Collecting,” graduate seminar class in museum
education. George Washington University, August 1974.

. “Producing a Bicentennial Exhibit.” The League of Women Voters,
Washington, D. C., October 31, 1974 and January 28, 1975.

Mayr, Otto, “The Dynamics of High Speed Steam Engines.” American Society
of Mechanical Engineers, Annual Meeting, New York, November 19, 1974.

Appendix 8. Selected Contributions of the Staff / 461
, “Charles T. Porter and Steam Engine Dynamics.” Interdepartmental

Colloquium, Ohio State University, April 9, 1975.

, “Theory and Practice in the Engineering Contributions of Charles
Porter.” History Colloquium, University of Delaware, April 28, 1975.

Miller, J. Jefferson, II. “American Ceramic Imports, 1750-1850.” American
Ceramic Society Annual Meeting, Niagara Falls, New York, November 1974.

Norby, Reidar. “Smithsonian, Your Next-door Philatelic Neighbor.” Library
of Congress Stamp Club, Washington, D. C., April 15, 1975.

Odell, J. Scott. Supervision of the restoration (and accompanying docu-
mentation) by Thomas Wolf of the grand piano, John Broadwood & Sons,
London, 1974 in the Smithsonian collection.

, panelist. “Musical Instrument Restoration.” Annual meeting, American
Musical Instrument Society, New York, April 6, 1975.

Pogue, Forrest D. “Early History of Lyon and Crittenden Counties, Kentucky.’
Opening of Symposium, Western Kentucky Bicentennial Celebration, Padu-
cah, Kentucky, July 5, 1974.

. “Soldier as Diplomat—Marshall Mission to China.” Industrial College

of the Armed Forces, October 2, 1974.

. “Techniques of Oral History for the Army Historian.” Conference of

Army Historians, Washington, October 18, 1974.

. “Education of a Biographer.’”” Morehead State University, October 24,

1974,

. “The Oral Interview.” Northern Kentucky College, October 25, 1974.

. “Oral History in the Writing of Biography.” Virginia Commonwealth

University, November 14, 1974.

. “George C. Marshall, Soldier-Statesman.” University of Richmond,

November 15, 1974.

. “Oral History Materials as Part of Library Archives.” Workshop on

Archives, George C. Marshall Research Library, November 21, 1974.

, contributor. Seminar on a study of the Yalta Conference, Lehrman

Institute, New York City, January 14 and February 11, 1975.

. “George C. Marshall, Soldier-Statesman.” Inauguration of Distin-

guished Lecture Series, Murray State University, February 17, 1975.

. “How Marshall and his Staff Dealt with Theater Commanders in

World War II.” Army War College, February 24, 1975.

. “Command Relations Between General Marshall and his Theater

Commanders, Eisenhower, MacArthur and Stilwell.’” Marine Corps Schools,

Quantico, Virginia, February 28, 1975.

. “Program of the Eisenhower Institute,” presidential address. Annual

Meeting of the American Military Institute, April 12, 1975.

. “Program of the Eisenhower Institute.” U. S. Military Academy Cadet

group, Museum of History and Technology, Smithsonian Institution, April

12, 1975.

. “Leadership in World War II.” Distinguished Lecture Series, Air Force

Academy, April 17, 1975.

. “Eisenhower as Military Commander.” Military Historians Discussion

Group of Military Classics, Ft. Myer, Virginia, April 20, 1975.

. “The Value of Oral History.” Symposium on oral history held by

students of the topic from the University of Maryland and George Wash-

ington University, April 24, 1975.

, panelist. “Impact of Korean War on American Foreign Relations.”
Symposium sponsored by the Harry S. Truman Library Institute, Kansas
City, May 2, 1975.

Post, Robert C. “Science & Technology at the New York Crystal Palace, 1853.”
Crystal Palace Symposium, New York, October 25, 1974.

. “From Pillar to Post: The Plight of the Patent Models.” Annual

,

462, / Smithsonian Year 1975
Meeting of the Society for the History of Technology, Chicago, December

29, 1974.

. “The National Museum of History and Technology and the Bicenten-

nial.” Lecture to the Texarkana Historical Society, Texarkana, Texas,

February 28, 1975.

“Patent Statistics, Invention, and Economic Growth: A Caveat,”

visiting lecture. Department of History, University of Delaware, April 21,

1975.

. “1876: The Centennial Celebration.” Symposium on Using and Abusing
the American Past, 1775-1975, Old Sturbridge Village, Sturbridge, Mass-
achusetts, May 4, 1975.

Roth, Rodris. “The Centennial of 1876. Furniture and Other Decorative Arts.”
George Washington University Graduate Seminar, Smithsonian Institution,
Washington, D. C., October 1974.

, contributor and moderator of panel. “Floor Coverings in 18th Century
America.” 1975 Irene Emery Roundtable on Museum Textiles, Textile
Museum, Washington, D. C., April 1975.

Schlebecker, John T. “Agricultural Markets and Marketing in the North,
1774-1777,” paper. Symposium, “Two Centuries of American Agriculture,”
National Museum of History and Technology, April 21, 1975.

. “Standards of Excellence for Living Historical Farms and Agricultural

Museums,” paper. Fourth Annual Conference, Association for Living

Historical Farms and Agricultural Museums, National Museum of History

and Technology, April 24, 1975.

, coordinator for Smithsonian Institution. ““Two Centuries of American
Agriculture,” symposium jointly sponsored by: Smithsonian Institution,
U.S. Department of Agriculture, and Agricultural History Society; National
Museum of History and Technology, April 21-23, 1975.

Sharrer, G. Terry, program manager. Fourth Annual Conference, Association
for Living Historical Farms and Agricultural Museums, National Museum
of History and Technology, April 23-25, 1975.

Sheldon, Robert E. “The History and Sound of the Quinticlave and the
Ophicleide,” lecture and performance with Robert Eliason, Henry Ford
Museum. Fourth Annual Meeting, American Musical Instrument Society,
New York, April 5, 1975.

. 19th-Century American Ballroom Music. Nonesuch Records, H-71313,
1975. (Restoration of brass and woodwind instruments used from the
Smithsonian collection and performance on ophicleide, orchestral horn, and
Saxhorn).

Vann, Lois M. “Spinning and Weaving,” lecture and demonstration. Ana-
costia Museum, Washington, D. C., March 1975.

. “Mounting 2-Dimensional Textiles,” tape, script and slide show. In

cooperation with the Office of Museum Programs, Smithsonian Institution,

1975.

. Spinning and weaving demonstrations and lectures, Textile Hall,
National Museum of History and Technology, weekly September 1974—
May 1975.

Vogel, Robert M. “Building in the Age of Steam.” Architectural Restoration
Class, University of Maryland, October 22, 1974.

. “Industrial Archeology—Its Past and Prospects.” Symposium, “The

Industrial Archeology of Paterson, New Jersey,” October 26, 1974.

. Arranged series of noontime lectures for local section of American

Society of Mechanical Engineering, discussing various aspects of activities

of the National Museum of History and Technology in mechanical engi-

neering. Delivered lectures “Power Machinery” and “Pumping/Refrigera-
tion” in this series.

Appendix 8. Selected Contributions of the Staff / 463
, chairman. Session on preservation and restoration of historic concrete
structures at special historical session of American Concrete Institute An-
nual Meeting, Boston, Massachusetts, April 10, 1975.

, and Peter S. Smith. “The Last Wheel Works,” documentary film.
Premiered “public” version at the Society for Industrial Archeology Con-
ference, Baltimore, Maryland, April 1975.

Walker, Paul E. “Eternal Cosmos and the Womb of History: Time in Early
Ismaili Thought.” 8th Annual Meeting of the Middle East Studies Associa-
tion, Boston, November 9, 1974.

. “The Invention of the Mechanical Clock and the Linear Notion of
History.” Delivered before the Medieval Circle, University of Virginia,
April 22, 1975.

Watkins, C. Malcolm. ‘“Aspects of Historic Restoration.” Annual Meeting,
Johnston House Foundation, Half Moon Bay, California, June 1975.

Weaver, James M. Lecture, Master Classes, Concerts. Faculty of Baroque
Performance Institute, The Conservatory of Music, Oberlin College, July
1-24, 1974.

. Performances (harpsichord) in Monteverdi opera ‘Poppea.” Opera

House, Kennedy Center, Washington, D. C., October 1974.

. Solo Harpsichord Concerts (2), Radio Broadcast (1), Television Per-

formance (1), Caracas, Venezuela, October 1974.

. Harpsichord performance with Michel Piguet, Oboe and Recorder.

Hall of Musical Instruments, National Museum of History and Technology,

November 2, 1974.

. Harpsichord Workshop for the American Musicological Society 40th

Annual National Meeting, Washington, D. C., November 3, 1974.

. Lectures on Baroque performance practice and Solo Harpsichord Con-

certs at Fort Lewis College, Durango, Colorado, and Utah State University,

February 1974.

. Performance (harpsichord) in a Bach cantata and Bach Brandenburg

Concerto IV. Concert Hall, Kennedy Center, Washington, D. C., March

1974.

, visiting lecturer. Lectures, Master Classes, Concerts. Department of

Music, Cornell University, September, November 1974; February, March,

April 1975.

. Solo Harpsichord Concert. New Jersey State College, May 1975.

. Harpsichord performance with Howard Bass, lute and guitar. Phillips

Collection, Washington, D. C., May 11, 1975.

. “Historic Keyboard Instruments,” lecture, and two performances

(harpsichord). Baroque Music at Aston Magna, Great Barrington, Massa-

chusetts, June 20-22, 1975.

. 19th-Century American Ballroom Music. Nonesuch Records, H-71313,
1975. (Musical Director and performances on the square piano, Chickering
& Sons, Boston, 1850).

White, John H., Jr. “Railroad Exhibits at the U. S. Centennial, 1876,” lecture.
Graduate Course in American Studies, September 26, 1974.

. “Smithsonian Railroad Exhibit.” The Arts Club, Washington, D. C.,

October 1974.

. “The Pioneer: Some New Facts about Chicago’s First Locomotive.”

Main address, Railway and Locomotive Historical Society Annual Meeting,

Chicago, May 4, 1975.

,

LECTURES TO SMITHSONIAN ASSOCIATES

Battison, Edwin A. “The Evolution of American Technology.” May 7, 1975.
Clain-Stefanelli, Vladimir. “Fakes: Impostors of the Market Place,” Class
Session. Spring Semester, May 9, 1974.

464 / Smithsonian Year 1975
Collins, Herbert R. “Political Memorabilia in American History,” ten lectures.
April-June, 1975.

Cooper, Grace R. “Textiles.” The Evolution of American Technology series,
May 14, 1975.

Davis, Audrey B. Lecture on the Division of Medical Sciences, National
Museum of History and Technology, June 22, 1975.

Finn, Bernard S. “The Evolution of American Technology, Electric Power.”
May 21, 1975.

Golovin, Anne C. “American Furniture in the Collections of the Department
of Cultural History.” November 5, 1974.

. “American Furniture of the Federal Period.’” November 21, 1974.

Harris, Michael R. Tours of the Pharmacy and Rehabilitation Medicine Halls,
National Museum of History and Technology, June 1975.

Hindle, Brooke. “NMHT Bicentennial Exhibits.” February 11, 1975.

Marzio, Peter C. “The History of American Prints,” ten lectures. October-—
December, 1974.

Mayo, Edith P. “Women in Politics.” May 8, 1975.

Multhauf, Robert P. “America’s Wooden Age.” November 12, 1974.

Post, Robert C. “The Evolution of American Technology.” June 25, 1975.

Vann, Lois M. “Textile Preservation.” May 20, 1975.

White, John H., Jr. “History of the Steam Locomotive.” April 20, 1975.

ILLUSTRATED LECTURES FOR THE PUBLIC

Bruns, Franklin R., Jr. “FDR—Our Stamp Collecting President.” August 6,
1974.

Collins, Herbert R. “Campaigning American Style.” October 1, 1974.

Finn, Bernard S. “Submarine Telegraph, the Grand Victorian Technology.”
July 23, 1974.

Gardner, Paul V. “This Glass Belonged to My Grandmother.” September 17,
1974.

Harris, Michael R. “The Evolution of the Drugstore.” December 17, 1974.

Jackson, Everett A. ‘Recipes, Remedies and Cures for the Teeth.” October 29,
1974.

Jaeschke, Carl H. “Tokens and Counters Man Has Used Throughout History.”
September 24, 1974.

Norby, Reidar. “From Sweden with Love.” March 19, 1974.

. “Sizes, Shapes, and Uses of Postage Stamps.” August 13, 1974.

MUSEUM PROGRAMS

CONSERVATION-ANALYTICAL LABORATORY

LECTURES AND SEMINARS

Angst, Walter. “Conservation of Furniture and Other Objects.” Smithsonian
Associates, June 10, 1975.

Konrad, A. J. “The Museum Conservator: Paintings and Sculpture.” Smith-
sonian Associates, May 13, 1975.

McMillan, Eleanor. “Paper Conservation in the Museum.” Smithsonian As-
sociates, May 13, 1975.

Mishara, Joan W. “The Corrosion of Ancient Metals, Especially Bronzes.”
R. J. Gettens Memorial Seminar, March 21, 1975.

Olin, Jacqueline S. “Chemistry in the Museum.” Chemistry Department, Uni-
versity of Colorado, January 28, 1975.

. “Neutron Activation Analysis of Majolica Ware: Specimens from

Spanish-American Sites.” Symposium on the Application of the Physical

Appendix 8. Selected Contributions of the Staff / 465
Sciences to the Study of Medieval Ceramics, University of California at
Berkeley, March 20, 1975.
Organ, Robert M. Conservation Orientation Series, numbers 1-20, October
17, 1974 through March 27, 1975.
“Principles of Conservation.” Archival Administration students,
Library Science Department, Catholic University, October 18, 1974.
. “Practical Solutions to Providing a Stable Environment.” Annual
Meeting of Association for Preservation Technology, 1974.
. “Science in the Preservation of Art.” National Science Teachers As-
sociation, Annual Meeting, 1974.
. “Problem-Solving at the Smithsonian.” Scientific Advisory Committee
of the Henry Francis du Pont Winterthur Museum, November 1, 1974.
. “Acids in the Museum Environment,” seminar. Students and staff of
the Winterthur Program in the Conservation of Historic and Artistic Works,
November 2, 1974.
. “Science in the Service of Art.” American Association for Advance-
ment of Science Annual Meeting, January 30, 1975.
. Series of twelve lectures. “Fundamentals of Conservation,” course at
International Center, Rome, Italy, April 19-27, 1975.
. “Conservation in the Smithsonian.” Smithsonian Associates, May 6,
1975.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION LIBRARIES

Fink, Eleanor. “Computers, Information Retrieval, and Art,” ARLIS/NA
Annual Conference, January 21, 1975.

. “Computer Cataloging of Slide and Photograph Collections.” “Slide
Librarianship: A Contemporary Survey,” sponsored by the School of Library
Service, Columbia University, in cooperation with the Metropolitan Museum
of Art and ARLIS/NA, New York, New York, May 5, 1975.

Goodwin, Jack. “The 1411 Equivalency Exam; What It Is and What It Isn't.”
Federal Interagency Field Librarian’s Workshop, Arlington, Virginia, October
1, 1974.

Sloan, Elaine F. “Planning for OCLC—An Administrator’s Point of View,”
University of Maryland, College of Library and Information Services,
October, 1974.

. “Sustaining Planned Change: The Implementation of MRAP,” Uni-

versity of Maryland Library Staff Association, December, 1974.

. “Current Issues in Library Management,” University of Maryland,

College of Library and Information Services, May, 1975.

PUBLIC SEK VIGE

ANACOSTIA NEIGHBORHOOD MUSEUM

Kinard, John R. “Great Issues of the American Revolution—The Self Gov-
erning Community, Rights and Responsibilities,’ paper. Great Issues Task
Force, D. C. Bicentennial Commission and Assembly, Washington D. C.,
March 25, 1975.

. “Artistic Directions for the Black Arts.” African Heritage Studies

Association National Conference, Washington, D. C., April 5, 1975.

. “A Reappraisal of the Role of the Professional in Contemporary
Society.” Smithsonian Institution Associates Resident Program, April 10,
1975.

Martin Zora, and several staff members of the Museum’s Education Depart-

466 / Smithsonian Year 1975
ment. Lectures for the Air Force Phase Two Race Relations Training Pro-
gram, twice weekly since August 1974.

DIVISION OF PERFORMING ARTS

Williams, Martin. Seminar in Jazz Criticism. Music Critics Association, Smith-
sonian Institution, Washington, D. C., Sept. 23 through Oct. 2, 1974.

. Jazz, Swing through Modern, class. Smithsonian Associates, Washing-

fons, GC.

. “Some Problems in Jazz History and Musical Analysis,” lecture.

American Musicological Society, Washington, D. C., November 1, 1974.

. “The Fundamentals of Jazz,’ lecture. Music Educators Conference,

Catholic University, Washington, D. C., November 11, 1974.

. “The Fundamentals of Jazz,’ lecture. American Studies Association,

Brooklyn College, Brooklyn, New York, November 22, 1974.

. “Jelly Roll Morton,” lecture. Hunter College, New York, December 19,

1974.

. “Three Solo Pianos,” workshop. Museum of Natural History, Wash-

ington, D. C., January 5, 1975.

. Interview, with Dizzy Gillespie, Museum of Natural History, Wash-

ington, D. C., March 9, 1975.

. “Jazz and American Music,” radio interview. Luncheon at the Kennedy

Center, WGMS, April 23, 1975.

,

OFFICE OF SMITHSONIAN SYMPOSIA AND SEMINARS

Dillon, Wilton S. “Psychological Aspects of the Donor-Recipient Relationship.”
Foreign Service Institute, April 25, 1975.

, participant. “History of the Idea of Religious Toleration and Freedom,”

seminar. Department of Religion, Columbia University, New York, May 6,

1975.

, participant. Conference on Intercultural Transactions for the Future,

East-West Culture Learning Institute, Honolulu, Hawaii, June 22-26, 1975.

RESIDENT ASSOCIATE PROGRAM

Solinger, Janet W., conference participant. “Program Priorities Task Force on
Adult Education,” Corporation for Public Broadcasting, Washington, D. C.,
September 1974.

. Major address. Annual Meeting of Historic Homes Foundation, Inc.,

Louisville, Kentucky. October 9, 1974.

. Major address. Annual Meeting of Grand Rapids Art Museum, Grand

Rapids, Michigan, November 7, 1974.

, consultant on continuing education for the McGraw-Hill Publishing

Company, New York, April 1975.

, developer, director, and leader. “Developing a Museum-Oriented

Curriculum for Adults and Children,” Office of Museum Programs, Smith-

sonian Institution, Washington, D. C., April 7-10, 1975.

, speaker. Intern’s Seminar, National Endowment for the Arts, Wash-

ington, D. C., April 22, 1975.

, Trustee. Fine Arts Museum of the Women’s Interart Center, New

York, 1975.

, Vice-Chairperson. Publications Committee, National University Ex-

tension Association, 1974.

Appendix 8. Selected Contributions of the Staff / 467
APPENDIX 9. Fellows and Guest Scholars of the Woodrow Wilson
International Center for Scholars Since Its Incep-
tion, October 1970, Through June 1975

Elena Aga-Rossi Sitzia
Austin Amissah

R. P. Anand

R. Christian Anderson
German Arceniegas
Robert J. Art
William Bader
Malcolm Baldwin
Daniel Bardonnet
Dennis L. Bark
Numan V. Bartley
M. Cherif Bassiouni
Coral M. Bell

Harry C. Blaney
Francois Bondy
Heraclio Bonilla
Stephen V. Boyden
Zeb Bradford, Jr.
Peter Braestrup
Edward D. Brown
Roland Brown

Roy Bryce-Laporte
Alastair Buchan
Lucius C. Caflisch
Lynton K. Caldwell
Douglas Chalmers
Stanley Coben
Wayne Cole
Chester Cooper
Peggy Cooper

Luiz A. Costa-Pinto
Douglas M. Costle
William Crotty
Aaron L. Danzig
Richard Darman
Rajeshwar Dayal
Lewis A. Dexter
Martin Diamond
Rene Dubos
Roberto Etchepareborda

468 / Smithsonian Year 1975

Jens Evensen
Vladimir A. Fedorovich
Marc Ferro

Alton Frye

Carlos Fuentes
Zewde Gabre-Sellassie
Jackson A. Giddens
John J. Gilligan
Ismet Giritli
Andrew Goodpaster
Lincoln Gordon
Jack P. Greene

Jules Gueron

Shiv Gupta

Barbara G. Haskel
Elizabeth H. Haskell
Ihab Hassan
Moritaka Hayashi
Denis Hayes
Ferdinand Hermens
Hazel Hertzberg
Godfrey Hodgson
Townsend Hoopes
Raymond Hopkins
Donald L. Horowitz
A. E. Dick Howard
Russell W. Howe

E. W. Seabrook Hull
Terry R. Hutchins
M. Shamsul Huq
Charles Hyneman
Vladimir Ibler
Grace Stuart Ibingira
Marian Irish
Lawrence Kaplan
George Kennan
Benedict J. Kerkvliet
Wilfrid F. Knapp
Albert W. Koers
Wilfrid L. Kohl
Friedhelm Kruger-Sprengel
Paul Grimley Kuntz
Sanford Lakoff
Robert E. Lane
Ruth Lapidoth
Hongkoo Lee
Joseph A. LeMay
Reynaldo M. Lesaca
Yuri N. Listvinov
John M. Logsdon
Stuart H. Loory
John L. McHugh
Harald Malmgren
Gerald J. Mangone
Jaro Mayda

Earl Mazo

Dennis and Donella Meadows

Donald E. Milsten
John Milton

Ezra Mishan

K. P. Misra
Christopher Mitchell
Patrick Morgan
James A. Moss

John Mudd

James A. Mulligan
Francis X. Murphy
Claire Nader
Takafusa Nakamura
Joan Nelson
Yves-Henri Nouailhat
Raimi Ojikutu
Mancur Olson

John Owen

Robert A. Packenham
Arvid Pardo
Choon-ho Park
Carole Watts Parsons
Longin Pastusiak
Neal Peirce

Amos Perlmutter
Michla Pomerance
Eugene Rabinowitch

Appendix 9. Woodrow Wilson Center Fellows / 469

Harry Rowe Ransom
P.S. Rao

Raja Rao

Brian Rapp

Earl Ravenal

George Reedy
Taylor Reveley
Elliot Richardson
Richard Rose

Jon Rosenbaum
Robert Rothstein
Peter H. Sand

Lewis C. Sellers
Harold I. Sharlin
Evgeny S. Shershnev
Thomas E. Skidmore
Zdenek J. Slouka
Henry Nash Smith
Jean E. Smith
Richard W. Smyser
Egon Sohman
Athelstan Spilhaus
Kurt R. Spillmann
William B. Spong, Jr.
Robert E. Stein
Julius Stone

Roland N. Stromberg
Hideo Takabayashi
Radomiro Tomic
Eugene Trani
Vernon Van Dyke
Peter Van Ness
Jorge A. Vargas

Kei Wakaizumi
Robert H. Walker
Donald Walsh
Alvin M. Weinberg
Edward Wenk, Jr.
David Wise

Karol Wolfke
Bertram N. Wyatt-Brown
Vitaly V. Zhurkin
APPENDIX 10. Academic Appointments, 1974-1975

Smithsonian Fellows pursue research problems in Smithsonian facilities and
collections in collaboration with professional staff members.

SMITHSONIAN POSTDOCTORAL FELLOWS

Program in American and Cultural History

Kenneth J. Hagan, Ph.D., Claremont College. American naval diplomacy, 1845—
1861, with Harold D. Langley, Department of National and Military History,
from January 1, 1975, through June 30, 1975.

Bernard Mergen, Ph.D., University of Pennsylvania. Shipbuilding and ship-
building labor, 1917-1933, with Melvin H. Jackson, Department of Industries,
from March 1, 1975, through August 31, 1975.

Program in Anthropology

C. Adrian Heidenreich, Ph.D., University of Oregon. Study of Crow Indian cul-
ture and early plains ethnography, with John C. Ewers, Department of Anthro-
pology, from August 15, 1974, through August 14, 1975.

Program in Astrophysics

John B. Hearnshaw, Ph.D., Australian National University. The abundances and
nucleo-synthesis of copper and zinc in stars, with George B. Field, Smithsonian
Astrophysical Observatory, from September 25, 1974, through September 24,
1976.

Frederick H. Seguin, Ph.D., California Institute of Technology. Theoretical
studies of various aspects of the structure and stability of rotating astrophysical
objects, with George B. Field, Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory, from
October 1, 1974, through September 30, 1976.

Program in Earth Sciences

Gary R. Byerly, Ph.D., University of Illinois. Textural variations of oceanic
basalts, with William G. Melson, Department of Mineral Sciences, from Sep-
tember 1, 1974, through August 31, 1975.

Program in Environmental Sciences

Wolfgang P.J. Dittus, Ph.D., University of Maryland. The ecology and behavior
of the toque monkey, Macaca sinica of Sri Lanka, with John F. Eisenberg, Na-
tional Zoological Park, from October 15, 1974, through October 14, 1975.

Bronislaw Z. Drozdowicz, Ph.D., Cornell University. Genetic and biochemical
analysis of light-induced phenomena in Neurospora crassa, with Roy W. Hard-
ing, Radiation Biology Laboratory, from September 1, 1974, through August 31,
1975.

470 / Smithsonian Year 1975
Jessie S. Weistrop, Ph.D., University of Massachusetts. Protein synthesis in
chloroplast membrane bound ribosomes, with Martin M. Margulies, Radiation
Biology Laboratory, from October 1, 1974, through September 30, 1975.

Barbara A. Zilinskas, Ph.D., University of Illinois. Structure-function relation-
ships of phycobilisomes, with Elisabeth Gantt, Radiation Biology Laboratory,
from January 1, 1975, through December 31, 1975.

Program in Evolutionary and Systematic Biology

Raymond W. Bouchard, Ph.D., University of Tennessee. Taxonomy and system-
atics of some members of the crayfish genera Cambarus and Orconectes in the
southeastern United States, with Horton H. Hobbs, Department of Invertebrate
Zoology, from August 26, 1974, through August 25, 1975.

Judith E. Dudley, Ph.D., University of Chicago. Further studies on the feeding
biology of marine ectoprocts, with Richard S. Boardman, Alan H. Cheetham,
and Mary E. Rice, Department of Paleobiology and the Fort Pierce Bureau, from
July 15, 1974, through July 14, 1975.

Theodore L. Esslinger, Ph.D., Duke University. Taxonomy and systematics of
the lichen genus Parmelia, with Mason E. Hale, Department of Botany, from
October 1, 1974, through September 30, 1975.

Richard R. Graus, Ph.D., University of Rochester. Computer modeling of coral
growth, with Ian G. Macintyre, Department of Paleobiology, from September 1,
1974, through August 31, 1975.

Irving L. Kornfield, Ph.D., State University of New York, Stony Brook. Geo-
graphic variation and evolution in Astronesthes indicus, with Robert H. Gibbs,
Department of Vertebrate Zoology, from November 1, 1974, through July 31,
1975.

Wojciech Pulawski, Ph.D., Wroclaw University, Poland. Monograph of the
North American tachysphex, with Karl V. Krombein, from September 1, 1974,
through August 31, 1975.

Steven J. Zehren, Ph.D., University of Chicago. The evolutionary relationships
of zeiform fishes, with Stanley H. Weitzman, Department of Vertebrate Zoology,
from October 1, 1974, through September 30, 1975.

Program in the History of Art

Douglas G. Adams, Th.D., Graduate Theological Union. Humor in popular
religious lithographs of nineteenth-century America; social significance and
artistic parallels, with Janet L. Flint, National Collection of Fine Arts, from
September 1, 1974, through July 31, 1975.

David S. Traxel, Ph.D., University of California, Santa Cruz. The life and times
of Rockwell Kent, with Garnett M. McCoy, Archives of American Art, from
October 1, 1974, through September 30, 1975.

Program in the History of Science and Technology

Stanley Goldberg, Ph.D., Harvard University. The social character of science in
Germany and America in the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries, with
Paul Forman, Department of Science and Technology, from January 1, 1975,
through December 31, 1975.

John A. Hennings, Ph.D., University of California, Berkeley. History and devel-
opment of chemistry in the United States during the nineteenth and twentieth
centuries, with Jon B. Eklund, from January 1, 1975, through June 30, 1975.

Appendix 10. Academic Appointments / 471
Clifford M. Nelson, Ph.D., University of California, Berkeley. Fielding Bradford
Meek, 1817-1876; a scientific biography, with Ellis L. Yochelson, Department of
Paleobiology, from September 1, 1974, through August 31, 1975.

William J. Simon, Ph.D., City University of New York. The Ferreira expedition
in Brasil and its contribution to Brasilian natural history in the late eighteenth
century, with Audrey B. Davis, Department of Science and Technology, from
January 1, 1975, through December 31, 1975.

Program in Tropical Biology

Richard G. Cooke, Ph.D., University of London. The paleoecology of the central
provinces of Panama, with Olga Linares, Smithsonian Tropical Research Insti-
tute, and Clifford Evans, Department of Anthropology, from November 1, 1974,
through October 30, 1975.

Douglas R. Diener, Ph.D., University of California, San Diego. A comparative
study in the endocrine control of sex succession and dichromitism in the genus
Thalassoma, with Jeffrey B. Graham, Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute,
from January 1, 1975, through December 31, 1975.

Donald L. Kramer, Ph.D., University of British Columbia. Studies of the feeding
behavior of detritus- and aufwuchs-feeding freshwater fishes, with Robert L.
Dressler, Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, from November 1, 1974,
through September 30, 1975.

Robert R. Warner, Ph.D., University of California, San Diego. Studies on repro-
ductive strategies of coral reef fishes, with Ira Rubinoff, Smithsonian Tropical
Research Institute, from September 14, 1974 through August 14, 1975.

SMITHSONIAN PREDOCTORAL FELLOWS

Program in American and Cultural History

James A. Borchert, Ph.D. candidate, University of Maryland. American mini-
ghettos; alleys, alley dwellings, and alley dwellers in Washington, D.C., 1850—
1970, with Wilcomb E. Washburn, Office of American Studies, from July 15,
1974, through July 14, 1975.

Shirley Hune, Ph.D. candidate, George Washington University. American atti-
tudes to the Pacific migration; case study, the Chinese, with Roy S. Bryce-
Laporte, Research Institute on Immigration and Ethnic Studies, from Septem-
ber 1, 1974, through August 31, 1975.

Mark Lindley, Ph.D. candidate, Columbia University. Organological factors
bearing on the history of keyboard instruments, with John T. Fesperman and
J. Scott Odell, Department of Cultural History, from April 1, 1974, through
December 31, 1974.

Program in Anthropology

Avery M. Henderson, Ph.D. candidate, University of Colorado. Dental field
theory; an application to human evolution, with Douglas H. Ubelaker, Depart-
ment of Anthropology, from June 1, 1974, through May 31, 1975.

Robert D. Jurmain, Ph.D. candidate, Harvard University. The distribution of
degenerative joint disease in skeletal populations, with Donald J. Ortner, from
July 15, 1974, through July 14, 1975.

Robert F. Maslowski, Ph.D. candidate, University of Pittsburgh. A re-analysis
of Frank M. Setzler’s trans-Pecos Texas collection, with Waldo T. Wedel, De-
partment of Anthropology, from September 1, 1974, through August 31, 1975.

472. / Smithsonian Year 1975
Renato O. Rimoli, M.S. candidate, Universidad Auténoma de Santo Domingo.
A study of the Gerrit S. Miller collection of fauna from archeological sites in
Santo Domingo, 1925-1927, with Clifford Evans, Department of Anthropology,
and Clayton E. Ray, Department of Paleobiology, from April 1, 1974, through
June 30,1975.

Program in Astrophysics

William M. DeCampli, Ph.D. candidate, Harvard University. A statistical me-
chanical approach to galactic dynamics, with A. G. W. Cameron, Smithsonian
Astrophysical Observatory, from September 1, 1974, through May 31, 1975.

Robert W. Leach, Ph.D. candidate, Harvard University. High energy astro-
physics, with Riccardo Giacconi, Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory, from
September 1, 1974, through May 31, 1975.

Robert S. Pariseau, Ph.D. candidate, Harvard University. Galactic dynamics and
galactic evolution, with George Rybicki, Smithsonian Astrophysical Observa-
tory, from September 1, 1974, through May 31, 1975.

Carleton R. Pennypacker, Ph.D. candidate, Harvard University. Infrared pulsar
search astrophysics, with Costas Papaliolios, Smithsonian Astrophysical Observ-
atory, from September 1, 1974, through May 31, 1975.

Kenneth P. Topka, Ph.D. candidate, Harvard University. Analysis of UHURU
data of CYG X-3 and research on the HEAO-A modulation collimator, with
Alexander Dalgarno, Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory, from Septem-
ber 1, 1974, through May 31, 1975.

Ira M. Wasserman, Ph.D. candidate, Harvard University. Applications of weak
interaction theory to astrophysical problems, with Stephen Weinberg, Smith-
sonian Astrophysical Observatory, from October 1, 1974, through May 31, 1975.

Program in Conservation

Sarah C. Riley, M.A. candidate, New York University. Problems in conservation
with special emphasis on restoration of works of art on paper and related ma-
terials, with Robert M. Organ, Conservation and Analytical Laboratory, from
July 15, 1974, through July 14, 1975.

Program in Environmental Sciences

A. Lang Elliott, Ph.D. candidate, University of Maryland. Food hoarding and its
relation to hibernation in the eastern chipmunk, Tamias striatus, with John F.
Eisenberg, National Zoological Park, from August 1, 1974, through July 31,
1979;

Victoria C. Guerrero, Ph.D. candidate, Howard University. The courtship and
copulatory behavior of Myoprocta pratti, with Devra G. Kleiman, National
Zoological Park, from April 1, 1974, through March 31, 1975.

Program in Evolutionary and Systematic Biology

William L. Fink, Ph.D. candidate, George Washington University. Evolution and
systematics of the infraorder Photichthya, deep sea fishes, with Stanley H.
Weitzman, Department of Vertebrate Zoology, from July 1, 1974, through
June 30, 1975.

Peter R. Hoover, Ph.D. candidate, Case Western Reserve University. Paleon-
tology, paleoecology, and taphonomy of the permocarboniferous Palmarito

Appendix 10. Academic Appointments / 473
Formation of the southwestern Venezuelan Andes, with Richard E. Grant, De-
partment of Paleobiology, from September 1, 1974, through August 31, 1975.

Philip D. Perkins, Ph.D. candidate, University of Maryland. Biosystematics of
the New World representatives of the aquatic beetle genera, Hydraena and
Limnebius, with Paul J. Spangler, Department of Entomology, from May 1,
1974, through April 30, 1975.

Deva D. Tirvengadum, Ph.D. candidate, Ecole Pratique des Hautes Etudes. Re-
vision of tribes Gardeniae, Guettardae, and Knoxiae of the Rubiaceae for Sri
Lanka, with Dr. F. Raymond Fosberg, Department of Botany, from December 15,
1974, through December 14, 1975.

Program in the History of Art

George Gurney, Ph.D. candidate, University of Delaware. Olin Levi Warner and
his sculpture, with Lois M. Fink, National Collection of Fine Arts, from
August 1, 1974, through July 31, 1975.

Marc H. Miller, Ph.D. candidate, New York University. The art associated with
Lafayette’s farewell tour of the United States, with Lois M. Fink, National Col-
lection of Fine Arts, from July 1, 1974, through December 31, 1974.

Gerald D. Silk, Ph.D. candidate, University of Virginia. The image of the auto-
mobile in twentieth-century art, with Walter W. Hopps, National Collection of
Fine Arts, July 1, 1974, through June 30, 1975.

Ann Yonemura, Ph.D. candidate, Princeton University. The Ishiyamadera Engi
Emaki, with Thomas Lawton, Freer Gallery of Art, from September 1, 1974,
through May 31, 1975.

Program in the History of Science and Technology

Roy S. Klein, Ph.D. candidate, Case Western Reserve University. Alexander L.
Holley, his contributions to steelmaking and their impact on nineteenth-century
American technology, with G. Terry Sharrer, Department of Industries, from
July 15, 1974, through July 14, 1975.

Alice M. Quinlan, Ph.D. candidate, Johns Hopkins University. A history of
the National Research Council, 1916-1936, with Nathan Reingold, from Sep-
tember 1, 1974, through August 31, 1975.

Philip T. Rosen, Ph.D. candidate, Wayne State University. The search for order;
radio broadcasting in the 1920s, with Bernard S. Finn, Department of Science
and Technology, September 1, 1974, through August 31, 1975.

Program in Tropical Biology

Kenneth L. Heck, Ph.D. candidate, Florida State University. A tropical-temperate
comparison of community structure in estuarine grass bed areas, with Ira
Rubinoff, Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, from July 1, 1974, through
June 30, 1975.

Catherine A. Toft, Ph.D. candidate, Princeton University. Niche overlap and
competition for food in a community of frogs in Panama, with Egbert G. Leigh,
Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, from September 1, 1974, through
August 31, 1975.

UNDERGRADUATE RESEARCH STUDENTS

The following students pursued research supported by a grant from the National
Science Foundation’s Undergraduate Research Participation Program, Grant
GY9734 in Geological Sciences.

474 / Smithsonian Year 1975
Alan H. Cutler, Carleton College. Studies in invertebrate paleontology with
Richard E. Grant, Department of Paleobiology.

Kraig L. Derstler, Franklin and Marshall College. Studies in invertebrate paleon-
tology with Ellis L. Yochelson, Department of Paleobiology.

James W. Westgate, College of William and Mary. Miocene and Pliocene marine
mammals with Clayton E. Ray, Department of Paleobiology.

GRADUATE RESEARCH STUDENTS

Program in American and Cultural History

Gloria A. Johnson, Duke University. Studies of migration from the American
Virgin Islands to the United States, with Roy S. Bryce-Laporte, Research Insti-
tute on Immigration and Ethnic Studies.

George W. McDaniel, Duke University. Studies of American material culture,
with Wilcomb E. Washburn, Office of American Studies.

Program in Anthropology

Mitchell S. Rothman, Hunter College. Archaeological research on chipped stone
implements, with William W. Fitzhugh, Department of Anthropology.

Sara J. Wolf, George Washington University. Training in ethnographic and
archeological conservation, with Bethune M. Gibson, Department of Anthro-

pology.

Program in Environmental Sciences

Richard A. Kiltie, Yale University. Study of breeding behavior of African ante-
lopes, with Helmut K. Buechner, National Zoological Park.

Program in Evolutionary and Systematic Biology

Anne E. Hoffman, University of Oregon. Study of the distribution and ecology
of African game mammals, with Henry W. Setzer, Department of Vertebrate
Zoology.

Arthur G. Lavallee, University of Georgia. A study of Empis specimens, with
Richard W. Baumann, Department of Entomology.

Kathleen Munthe, University of California, Berkeley. Research on the muscula-
ture of Crocuta, the spotted hyena, with Richard W. Thorington, Department of
Vertebrate Zoology.

John B. Randall, University of Florida. Studies in entomological illustration,
with Lawrence M. Druckenbrod, Department of Entomology.

Thomas J. Trumpler, Art Center College of Design, California. Study of tech-
niques of vertebrate fossil restoration, with Nicholas Hotton, Department of
Paleobiology.

Program in the History of Art

Roslye R. Ultan, American University. Study of nineteenth- and twentieth-
century women artists, with Cynthia J. McCabe, Hirshhorn Museum and Sculp-
ture Garden.

Program in the History of Science and Technology

Jane A. Maienschein, Indiana University. Study of historical medical instru-
ments, with Audrey B. Davis, Department of Science and Technology.

Appendix 10. Academic Appointments / 475
Stephen J. Pyne, University of Texas. Research on a biography of the American
geologist, Grove Karl Gilbert, with Nathan Reingold, Joseph Henry Papers.

John B. Schmitt, University of Pennsylvania. Research on artifacts pertaining to
Elihu Thomson and his electrical engineering work in the late nineteenth cen-
tury, with Bernard S. Finn, Department of Science and Technology.

SMITHSONIAN COOPERATIVE STUDENTS

Richard LeBaron, George Washington University. Research on methodological
evolution of nasa’s technology utilization program, with Paul A. Hanle, Na-
tional Air and Space Museum.

James Maloney, George Washington University. Research on the economics of
technological change, with Paul A. Hanle, National Air and Space Museum.

MUSEUM STUDY STUDENTS

Amy Aotaki, University of California, Davis. Investigation of pathogenic bac-
teria in the Chesapeake Bay area, with Maria A. Faust, Chesapeake Bay Center
for Environmental Studies.

Kimberly Baer, University of California, Santa Cruz. Work on preparations
before and during the Festival of American Folklife, with Suzanne Roschwalb,
Division of Performing Arts.

Mary Balicki, American University. Study of motifs used on American military
insignia during the nineteenth century, with Donald E. Kloster, Department of
National and Military History.

Lucy Commoner, Rhode Island School of Design. Identification and analysis of
woven textiles, with Milton F. Sonday, Cooper-Hewitt Museum of Design.

Sarah Cornwall, William Smith College. Coordinating the new children’s area
for the Festival of American Folklife, with Suzanne Roschwalb, Division of
Performing Arts.

Catherine Corum, University of Kentucky. Coordinating photographs, text, and
craft objects in Mississippi exhibit for Festival of American Folklife, with Peggy
A. Martin, Division of Performing Arts.

Lauren Donner, Beloit College. Exhibit work especially silk screening, with
Benjamin W. Lawless, Department of Exhibits.

Lynne Isbell, University of Redlands. Observation of the Indian rhinoceros in
captivity, with Helmut K. Buechner, National Zoological Park.

Deanne Johns, University of Delaware. General curatorial tasks in the Division
of Textiles, with Rita J. Adrosko, Department of Applied Arts.

Samuel McMillan, New College, Sarasota. Research and study involving all
phases of photographic techniques, with Henry A. Alexander, Division of Photo-
graphic Services.

Kent Redford, University of California, Santa Cruz. Research and study in-
volving the preparation of mammals for museum study, with Richard W.
Thorington, Department of Vertebrate Zoology.

Louise Roth, Brown University. Work on the Marine Mammal Program in the
Department of Vertebrate Zoology, with James G. Mead, Department of Verte-
brate Zoology.

Robert A. Ruhl, Grinnell College. Work in the instrument restoration shop, the
music patent library, tuning instruments, and giving perfermances, with John
T. Fesperman, Department of Cultural History.

476 / Smithsonian Year 1975
Mary Scott, University of Virginia. Study on a practical level of the workings of
an educational organization within a museum, with Carolyn A. Hecker, Smith-
sonian Associates.

Oren Screebny, Fairhaven College. Work with films and slides of the Festival of
American Folklife to put together shows featuring various segments of the
Festival, with Suzanne Roschwalb, Division of Performing Arts.

John Sheehan, University of California at Davis. Library research on nineteenth-
century mathematicians, with Uta C. Merzbach, Department of Science and
Technology.

Gordon Uno, University of California. General research for the Museum of
Natural History Bicentennial exhibit, with George R. Zug, Department of
Vertebrate Zoology.

Wanda Walker, University of Idaho. Archival studies relating to the Festival of
American Folklife, 1974, 1975, with Suzanne Roschwalb, Division of Perform-
ing Arts.

Cherilyn E. Widell, Hood College. Recipient of the Elsie Shaver Scholarship to
study, organize, and preserve the correspondence of Dorothy Shaver, with
Claudia B. Kidwell, Department of Cultural History.

Cheryl Yuen, University of California. Computer cataloguing and analysis of
Joseph Henry’s personal papers, with Arthur P. Molella, Joseph Henry Papers.

Appendix 10. Academic Appointments / 477
APPENDIX 11. Staff of the Smithsonian Institution, June 30, 1975

SECRETARY’S OFFICE AND RELATED ACTIVITIES

WHE SEGRETAR YO ee Sucicce pen eerie
EXeCUtivieuANsSsistanitasmmre circ aie rcnnecner

Under, Secretary j.c.30-i: pce ieee ee
Administrative @fficeme sees ceo:
Director Acendal@fficele sn ater
Director Office oteAditsmea see cee

Assistant Secretary for Science ........
Assistant Secretary for History and Art .
Assistant Secretary for Public Service ...
Assistant Secretary for Museum Programs
(Director, United States National Mu-

SCUM GAGE) \ ere cress oieues « sieeussshenenaeeesueuexs

Preasurer sys. cocks sweden chereeine
Assistant Treasurer (Accounting) ......
Assistant Treasurer (Programming

AMC IBUGREE) eee eaie sears Sc eiicetacetees
BusinesssManagenms ociemieeair orn
Director, Smithsonian Museum Shops ...
Director, Belmont Conference Center ...

General Counsel ...............:.006-
Assistant GeneraliGounsels ».5.42 05. -

Director of Support Activities ..........

Special Projects, Office of the Secretary
Special Assistant to the Secretary ......
Special Assistant to the Secretary ......
Director, Office of Membership
andelDevelopinentearsereiaeerereri ote
Editor, Joseph Henry Papers ...........
Director, Office of Equal Opportunity ...
Curator, Smithsonian Institution Building

Honorary Research Associates .........

SCIENCE

Assistant Secretary ...................
Deputy Assistant Secretary ............
Executives © fiiceni. a varayraenaercisvoinmy erste

478 / Smithsonian Year 1975

S. DILLON RIPLEY
Dorothy Rosenberg

Robert A. Brooks
John Motheral

Robert L. Farrell
Chris S. Peratino

David Challinor
Charles Blitzer
Julian T. Euell
Paul N. Perrot

T. Ames Wheeler
Betty J. Morgan

John F. Jameson
Richard Griesel
William W. Rowan III
Joanne S. Baker Kugel

Peter G. Powers
Alan D. Ullberg
George S. Robinson
Suzanne D. Murphy
Marie C. Malaro

Richard L. Ault

Richard H. Howland
Margaret Gaynor

Lawrence E. Laybourne
Nathan Reingold
Archie D. Grimmett
James M. Goode

Alexander Wetmore, Secretary Emeritus

Paul H. Oehser

David Challinor
Michael R. Huxley
Harold J. Michaelson
CENTER FOR THE STUDY OF MAN

“DUTT ge aS ee ee ear Sol Tax
Proeram Goordinator 5. 5... 6... oe oa Sam Stanley
Director, Research Institute for

Immigration and Ethnic Studies ...... Roy Bryce-Laporte
Director, National Anthropological

POA MMOETITELS 206 5iaie cin 2's cial noha wave aS) E. Richard Sorenson

CHESAPEAKE BAY CENTER FOR ENVIRONMENTAL STUDIES

LTS DS) ee ea J. Kevin Sullivan
Associate Director for Education ....... John H. Falk
Aaministrative Omcer soe... . a ncce les Donald L. Wilhelm
EacmtteSiViAHAGer ... so. - = eae wee elc'e wins Robert E. Ayers

Scientific Staff:

Gary R. Chirlin
Robert L. Cory
Maria A. Faust
Elaine S. Friebele
Nancy M. Goff
Daniel L. Higman
James F. Lynch

Patricia Mehlhop
Joseph J. Miklas
Shiela D. Minor

R. William Schaffner
Robert J. Simpson
Linda L. Szaloczi
Tung Lin Wu

Education and Information:
G. Marjorie Beane
Sally A. Gucinski

David P. Miller
M. Lynne Mormann

FORT PIERCE BUREAU

TEN DIDS ote eile Gets ela eae H. Adair Fehlmann
Principal Investigator of

Indran)River,Study 5.4:..:<-6..2--% David K. Young
Administrative Assistant .............. Carolyn S. Zealand
Scientific Staff:
SPECIE ELV Ca US SR ae ee oe Robert H. Gore
Embryologist/Life Histories ........... Mary E. Rice
SEIT RIGS, le cle ote eomicks Cetin ceapeaae Linda J. Becker

Betsy Brown
Stephen A. Dudley
George R. Kulcyzcki
John E. Miller
Smithsonian Fellowship ..............- Judith E. Dudley
@ollaborator ] eae ote trees ows Martha W. Young

NATIONAL AIR AND SPACE MUSEUM

PH PCLON eis) See ee as ar Michael Collins
WeputvaDIrectOL y ac4. </s .§s cuslayeicholes)o1s\ 6 « Melvin B. Zisfein
EXCEiVe OLICeD cists oes ese ae John Whitelaw
Aamimistrative Officer <2... ccc 2223s M. Antoinette Smith
Eivstoranemeritusie eee eee ae Paul E. Garber

Department of Aeronautics
INGSISEALIE ITE CLOLs 25 2s eieters (fs 6S 2210 31 Donald S. Lopez

Department of Astronautics
IASSISEATI EITC CLOG ey eins Mieisi inc sels sve Scie = F. C. Durant III

Appendix 11. Staff of the Smithsonian Institution, June 30,1975 / 479
Department of Science and Technology

iNccistantiDirectonia ner iceerieee Howard Wolko
Center for Earth and Planetary Studies

Research Minectomean see eee eet Dr. Farouk El-Baz
Presentations and Educational Division

(G) ab Tal Bema re etn Ua eee IE ME ant oe Tg A abet SeeuBION oN Von Del Chamberlain
Exhibits Division

GPT Ra rte Mere eis en eee ea elar staal Francis A. Baby
GhiefwAudiovisualiUniteeee eee ee Hernan Otano
GhiefDesten) Wnitaee ever yaeis Robert Widder
Gwar Wihetecidiom Unite asabbeskoooseoe Peter Copeland
Ghief lroductonulinitin were. Frank Nelms
Preservation, Restoration, and Storage Division

(IWS ginal a ystiey MEE ACE iA Renee ist tae emtmene ee Donald Merchant
Library Branch

ib rani anes ae heakteeeatele sor eeens Catherine D. Scott
Buildings Coordinators in. 20 seiner Joseph L. Davisson

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY

PIT @CEON aie coors eo cee ee ecu eos Porter M. Kier
/Negieiainte IDIRECHOR esas coooboscccbonsc James F. Mello
Staff Assistant to) Winector see amare.) Robert D. Seabolt!
StattmAssictantito) OIneGLon enter een C. Willard Hart?
GhichioBExhibitst mene eerie aero Harry T. Hart
Coordinator, Office of Education ....... Joan C. Madden
GhichwADRaerocraminp eee ee eee ri T. Gary Gautier
Building Manager 29) rye: is se spies njeues Donald L. Case
Noiministrativier® tice pierre John C. Townsend
ANTHROPOLOGY

G@hairimbariasg a's ait tite ia fal oty nauep dle oeyene William W. Fitzhugh
Senior. Archeologist.) js gsi. seccen sie = Waldo R. Wedel
SemorEthnologists= aces rier John C. Ewers

Saul H. Riesenberg
INTIS Esencuremiccdon rey re pe enesene ears: Herman J. Viola
Gollections Vianagenerrae cece eee George E. Phebus
Latin American Anthropology
G@urator ee tls See ere aus nace Clifford Evans
INccociates Guratonsiee nei itil William H. Crocker

Robert M. Laughlin

Old World Anthropology

G@uratOrs eye ees cee ete Gordon D. Gibson
Gus W. Van Beek
Eugene I. Knez
William B. Trousdale

North American Anthropology

(Bivvy co) MR Ree he ate te ond Soo. at William C. Sturtevant

Accsociater Curators reer erie William W. Fitzhugh
Dennis M. Stanford

1 Appointed September 8, 1974.
2 Appointed May 25, 1975.

480 / Smithsonian Year 1975
Physical Anthropology
PRAISES Ga cig tT teens Sh eG es <6 nie J. Lawrence Angel
ISSOGiates CuratOnrse ss tie.c< lcciictis <.0.5.2 6 Donald J. Ortner

Lucile E. St. Hoyme
Douglas H. Ubelaker

Research Associates, Collaborators, and Affiliated Scientists:

Hans-Georg Bandi (Archeology)

W. Montague Cobb (Physical
Anthropology)

T. Aidan Cockburn (Physical
Anthropology)

Henry B. Collins (Archeology)

Wilson Duff (Ethnology)

Don D. Fowler (Archeology)

Sister Inez Hilger (Ethnology)

C. G. Holland (Archeology)

Neil M. Judd (Archeology)

Richard T. Koritzer (Physical
Anthropology)

Ralph K. Lewis (Archeology)

Michael Liebman (Physical
Anthropology)

Betty J. Meggars (Archeology)

George S. Metcalf (Archeology)

Walter G. Putschar (Physical
Anthropology)

Victor A. Nunez Regueiro (Archeology)

Owen Rye (Archeology)

Wilhelm G. Solheim (Archeology)

T. Dale Stewart (Physical
Anthropology)

Mildred Mott Wedel (Archeology &
Ethnohistory)

Theodore A. Wertime (Archeology)

BOTANY

RINNE IM Fn I aiid oi 5 Sucgss 0h 5) 6.0 Edward S. Ayensu

DEMIOMEOLANIS tard “en oyssste oe cave eter ene Richard S. Cowan
Lyman B. Smith?

Phanerogams

RINSE SS 3), EL Oe ese oe ticles F. Raymond Fosberg
John J. Wurdack

PAASSOUIAteCMALOLS a es ke se ae ss Oe Dan H. Nicolson
Robert W. Read
Marie-Helene Sachet
Stanwyn G. Shetler
Beryl B. Simpson
Laurence E. Skog
Dieter C. Wasshausen

Ferns

Associate (CuratOn. os eee eas ec decies David B. Lellinger

Grasses

NOGARO TI ya Bt 8 sila case Ses Sya¥ spas laviava Myo (535s Thomas R. Soderstrom

Cryptogams

COCR TOTES pu RPR OCR CLE HEA Gk REIS ERC Rn ER Mason E. Hale, Jr.
Harold E. Robinson

Palynology

INSSORCTAPE @ULALOL, 4 s.chosis 6 cise cls oe S.5)s8e Joan W. Nowicke

Plant Anatomy
GUALOT STONEY els. res,%, Seis ts Byes wieigibis OHS Edward S. Ayensu
Richard H. Eyde

Research Associates, Collaborators, and Affiliated Scientists:
Paul S. Conger (Diatomaceae) James A. Duke (Flora of Panama)
José Cuatrecasas (Flora of Tropical Marie L. Farr (Fungi)
South America) Aaron Goldberg (Phanerogams)

3 Retired September 30, 1974.

Appendix 11. Staff of the Smithsonian Institution, June 30,1975 / 481
Research Associates, Collaborators, and Affiliated Scientists—Cont.

Charles R. Gunn (Seeds)

William H. Hathaway (Flora of
Central America)

Paul L. Lentz (Fungi)

Elbert L. Little, Jr. (Dendrology)

Alicia Lourteig (Neotropicai Botany)

Kittie F. Parker (Compositae)

Clyde F. Reed (Ferns)

James L. Reveal (Ferns)

Velva E. Rudd (Leguminosae)

ENTOMOLOGY

Chairman
Collections Manager
Senior Entomologists

Neuropteroids and Diptera
Curator

Lepidoptera
Curators
Associate Curator

Coleoptera
Associate Curators

Hemiptera
Associate Curator

Myriapoda and Arachnida
Curator

elie) ce else) ovlelie).e celle! | ©) elielie.e,je) «)0).0)'s: =| 0) /0\-0.:0

2

ee ee

Ce

ee

a)

Ce

a

Lyman B. Smith (Flora of Brazil)
Marie L. Solt (Melastomataceae)
Frans A. Stafleu (Phanerogams)
William L. Stern (Plant Anatomy)
John A. Stevenson (Fungi)
Edward E. Terrell (Phanerogams)
Francis A. Uecker (Fungi)
Egbert H. Walker (Myrsinaceae,
East Asian Flora)

Paul D. Hurd, Jr.
Gary F. Hevel

J. F. Gates Clarke*
Karl V. Krombein

Oliver S. Flint, Jr.
Richard W. Baumann®

Donald R. Davis
W. Donald Duckworth
William D. Field

Terry L. Erwin
Paul J. Spangler

Richard C. Froeschner

Ralph E. Crabill, Jr.

Research Associates, Collaborators, and Affiliated Scientists:

Charles P. Alexander (Diptera)
Doris H. Blake (Coleoptera)
Franklin S. Blanton (Diptera)

Frank L. Campbell (Insect Physiology)

Oscar L. Cartwright (Coleoptera)

J. F. Gates Clarke (Lepidoptera)

K. C. Emerson (Mallophaga)

John G. Franclemont (Lepidoptera)

Harry Hoogstraal (Medical
Entomology)

INVERTEBRATE ZOOLOGY

W. L. Jellison (Siphonaptera,
Anoplura)

Harold F. Loomis (Myriapoda)

C. F. W. Muesebeck (Hymenoptera)

George W. Rawson (Lepidoptera)

Mary Livingston Ripley (General
Entomology)

Robert Traub (Siphonaptera)

David Wooldridge (Coleoptera)

Hayo H. W. Velthuis (Hymenoptera)

David L. Pawson
Fenner A. Chace, Jr.
Horton H. Hobbs, Jr.
Harald A. Rehder

4 Retired February 27, 1975, and appointed Research Associate March 1, 1975.

5 Resigned June 17, 1975.

482 / Smithsonian Year 1975

Crustacea

(CYSTEIOTSS “Sib Sahar iene ane Atoka, 1 ee J. Laurens Barnard
Thomas E. Bowman
Roger F. Cressey
Louis S. Kornicker
Raymond B. Manning

Echinoderms

CUES Gs Se ree DOS BOD OOS Oars ore David L. Pawson
Meredith L. Jones
Marian H. Pettibone

Ales Oelater Ctrl OW es ar<ays,<ceiis, cies ove ,ske es Mary E. Rice

Mollusks

COPALONG, SARS eos u aes One GOI oee darereie Clyde F. E. Roper
Joseph Rosewater

PASSociate; Curator 2,5 sok <a mis neers os oi Joseph P. E. Morrison

Wastes @unatOrsy i. stcls, 65. 65 ace has oii Michel de Saint Laurent

Frederick Bayer®

Research Associates, Collaborators, and Affiliated Scientists:
Frederick M. Bayer (Echinoderms) Roman Kenk (Worms)
S. Stillman Berry (Mollusks) J. Ralph Lichtenfels (Worms)
Janet Bradford (Crustacea) Patsy McLaughlin (Crustacea)
J. Bruce Bredin (Biology) Anthony J. Provenzano, Jr. (Crustacea)
Isabel C. Canet (Biology) Waldo L. Schmitt (Marine

Ailsa M. Clark (Echinoderms)

Elisabeth Deichmann (Echinoderms)

Mary Gardiner (Echinoderms)
John C. Harshbarger (Marine

Invertebrate)
Frank R. Schwengal (Mollusks)
I. G. Sohn (Crustacea)
Donald F. Squires (Echinoderms)

Gilbert L. Voss (Mollusks)
Austin B. Williams (Crustacea)

Invertebrates)
Lipke B. Holthuis (Crustacea)

MINERAL SCIENCES

Ghrannmrane cote eres; orteeeenne Seek eles w gdic William G. Melson

RGA GOAG bee a 2 hep iis cin iel asd wc fais oos. cre George S. Switzer?

Pollections Manager! avi. <)s,n2056 «6.5: Harold H. Banks, Jr.

Meteorites

SHEACGES ae Ne ere ree Mireles Roy S. Clarke, Jr.
Brian H. Mason

GEQEHEMTSES ES = ye cc ete Oe ewe Kurt Fredriksson

Robert Fudali

Mineralogy

(CUITAIVGYS "5 Gta sa aches Gita otic oy Sines eae Paul E. Desautels
Associate Curator acne ot aoe fe wie cas John S. White, Jr.
Mrysrallopraphers Vib 26 Sc. 5 8 ees 5 ses Daniel E. Appleman

Petrology and Volcanology
PEE Tie SE 2 i ea aay eee Thomas E. Simkin

Physical Sciences Laboratory
(One Te es a, = So) Eugene Jarosewich
Joseph A. Nelen

6 Appointed June 2, 1975.
7 Retired June 20, 1975.

Appendix 11. Staff of the Smithsonian Institution, June 30,1975 / 483
Research Associates, Collaborators, and Affiliated Scientists:

Howard J. Axon (Meteorites)
Vagn F. Buchwald (Meteorites)
Tomas Feininger (Petrology)

John J. Gurney (Petrology)
Edward P. Henderson (Meteorites)
John B. Jago (Mineralogy)
William C. Buell IV (Volcanology)

PALEOBIOLOGY

Ghairmiane octets tia shore ushe oi ietecs oueuel eerie
@ollectionsiManacer paces as-is

Invertebrate Paleontology

GtiKAatOns! Ao cee see ote eas heres

Geologist ies Ps tele avebasba Antu begate 's\eus a

Vertebrate Paleontology

Guratorsec cee sel ere ere ols

Accsociater CunatOl meen eee

Paleobotany

Glirator: Bee Bee er eee etsac
INcsociater Gunatonsm ance eee

Sedimentology

Gurator sinc oe Oe Oe oe reer oietere
Geological Oceanographer ...........
Geologists Ka VG WSR ae sie Sakielters

Peter Leavens (Mineralogy)

T. R. McGetchin (Petrology)
Rosser Reeves (Mineralogy)
Arthur Roe (Mineralogy)
Geoffrey Thompson (Petrology)
Harry Winston (Mineralogy)

Richard E. Grant
Frederick J. Collier

Richard M. Benson
Richard S. Boardman
Martin A. Buzas
Alan H. Cheetham
Richard Cifelli
Richard E. Grant
Erle G. Kauffman
Thomas R. Waller
Kenneth M. Towe

Nicholas Hotton III
Clayton E. Ray
Robert J. Emry

Walter H. Adey
Leo J. Hickey
Francis M. Hueber

Jack W. Pierce
Daniel J. Stanley
Ian G. Macintyre

Research Associates, Collaborators, and Affiliated Scientists:

Patricia Adey
Arthur J. Boucot
David Child
Anthony C. Coates
G. Arthur Cooper
Raymond Douglass
J. Thomas Dutro
Douglas Emlong
Robert M. Finks

C. Lewis Gazin
Mackenzie Gordon, Jr.
Joseph E. Hazel
John W. Huddle
Ralph W. Imlay
Jeremy B. C. Jackson
Gilbert Kelling
Harry S. Ladd

N. Gary Lane
Kenneth E. Lohman

484 / Smithsonian Year 1975

Venka V. Macintyre
Sergius H. Mamay
James F. Mello
Robert B. Neuman
William A. Oliver, Jr.
Storrs L. Olson

Axel A. Olsson
Thomas F. Phelen
John Pojeta, Jr.
Charles A. Repenning
Frederic R. Siegel
Norman F. Sohl
Steven M. Stanley
Margaret Ruth Todd
Frank C. Whitmore, Jr.
John W. Wilson
Astrid Witmer
Wendell P. Woodring
Ellis P. Yochelson
VERTEBRATE ZOOLOGY

CRETE TI roe omihes @ Grong GOLGI Bic aerate Robert H. Gibbs, Jr.

Fishes

(CUEURETROVAS 1S: Saye i CN POO Cee eGR CER ea Robert H. Gibbs, Jr.
Ernest A. Lachner
Victor G. Springer
Stanley H. Weitzman

PNGSOC Ate EUTALOL 6.4 -ds anrclo isto ss) elm isie William R. Taylor

Reptiles and Amphibians
Pyanmeiore GUEATOTS 6.6.0 na cncm ss ae oie W. Ronald Heyer

George R. Zug

Birds

NOUIMALONS! eg cts sas cee t sys cue oie mabe wees George E. Watson
Richard L. Zusi
Paul Slud

Storrs Olson®

Mammals

SERIEATOS) en vos 5s on, Ban Sie wate HH be Charles O. Handley, Jr.
Henry W. Setzer

Associate Curator ing sees dots oie ec cee Richard W. Thorington, Jr.

PNSSistanty GuratOrsacins suse aso erer eek James G. Mead

Research Associates, Collaborators, and Affiliated Scientists:

John W. Aldrich (Birds)

Ronald Gail Altig (Reptiles,
Amphibians)

Richard C. Banks (Birds)

William Belton (Birds)

Michael A. Bogan (Mammals)

James P. Bogart (Reptiles,
Amphibians)

James E. Bohlke (Fishes)

Robert L. Brownell, Jr. (Mammals)

Howard W. Campbell (Reptiles,
Amphibians)

Daniel M. Cohen (Fishes)

Bruce B. Collette (Fishes)

Sara L. Demott (Mammals)

Robert K. Enders (Mammals)

Carl H. Ernst (Reptiles, Amphibians)

Herbert Friedmann (Birds)

Jefferey Froehlich (Mammals)

Alfred L. Gardner (Mammals)

Crawford H. Greenewalt (Birds)

Arthur M. Greenhall (Mammals)

Richard Highton (Reptiles,
Amphibians)

Marshall A. Howe (Birds)

Philip S. Humphrey (Birds)

Crawford G. Jackson, Jr. (Reptiles,
Amphibians)

8 Appointed February 24, 1975.

Appendix 11. Staff of the Smithsonian Institution, June 30,1975 / 485

George J. Jacobs (Reptiles,
Amphibians)

Frances C. James (Birds)

Clyde J. Jones (Mammals)

E. V. Komarek (Mammals)

Roxie C. Laybourne (Birds)

J. A. J. Meester (Mammals)

Egardo Mondolfi (Mammals)

Russell E. Mumford (Mammals)

Storrs L. Olson (Birds)

Braulio Orejas-Miranda (Reptiles)

John Paradiso (Mammals)

William F. Perrin (Mammals)

Dioscoro S. Rabor (Birds)

Rudolfo Ruibal (Reptiles,
Amphibians)

G. Carleton Ray (Mammals)

S. Dillon Ripley (Birds)

William Schevill (Mammals)

Leonard P. Schultz (Fishes)

Stephen G. Tilley (Reptiles,
Amphibians)

John C. Weske (Birds)

Alexander Wetmore (Birds)

Ralph E. Wetzel (Mammals)

Don E. Wilson (Mammals)

Richard D. Worthington (Reptiles,
Amphibians)
SMITHSONIAN OCEANOGRAPHIC SORTING CENTER

Director, SOSCGH nese ere

Director, Mediterranean Marine

SOMsiMs COME cacbsodoreacecsvsol0c

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK

Directors ie o eke feohe CRS aia ol Jaret
DeputyaDirectorer eerie ieee err
Assistant Director for Conservation ....

Assistant Director for

Wiser Seances: é.ce co cbole muss Alan o

Chief, Office of Education and

Information sean encom oe
Chief, Office of Graphics and Exhibits ...
Chief, Office of Protective Services .....
GaptaimyNZP Police eee ycyeieis cies ois
Chief, Health and Safety Unit ..........

General Curator, Office of Animal

Managemlenteyacierteieitrriecier avers h-ler

Associate Curator, North Mammal

mitre es < ere ek YA ERAS ees cd ne
Curator, Central Mammal Unit ........

Assistant Curator, South Mammal

UOT Se eeccspots casera enter aa eeeomeets
Gurators birds Unite oso eee
Assistant Curator, Reptiles Unit ........

Chief, Commissary and Support

ORI Ca te a Macatee ae dl an ee Se aie tr ee coin e

Scientist-in-Charge, Office of

Zoologicall Research ee sas cerns cients
Chief, Office of Animal Health .........
SenionVeteninanlanieman acto cee:
Chief, Office of Pathology <.c3..2---...

Curator-in-Charge, Conservation and

Research) @enterm seen aerial.

Chief, Office of Construction

Mana eememanrrer acini Gita liens
Chief, Office of Facilities Management ..
@GhiefsMaintenancelUnitenss. ees.
GhichGroundsiUniter eee eo:
GhiecfuServicessUnit een ieee ae
Chiefmliranspoxtation Unit sa4se ee ce -

Chief, Property and Procurement

Britten eee eee See erence Steer cp etevrecousns el oy cies

Chief, Office of Management

SerViCes 6,56 kites wie sce utes ar eeroreliss os ers
Associatesrimmacology, eames see =

Raseeneln /NGSOCENES goobbonoceuaboognoe

Collaboratorsiehoa cc coor oe eee

486 / Smithsonian Year 1975

Betty J. Landrum

Ernani G. Menez

Theodore H. Reed
Edward Kohn
John Perry

Warren J. Iliff

Judith White

Robert E. Mulcahy
Joseph J. McGarry
Samuel L. Middleton, Jr.
Anthony S. Kadlubowski

Jaren G. Horsley

Larry R. Collins
William A. Xanten, Jr.

Miles S. Roberts
Guy A. Greenwell
Michael L. Davenport

Moses Benson

John F. Eisenberg
Mitchell Bush
Clinton W. Gray
Richard J. Montali

Christen M. Wemmer

Robert C. Engle
Emanuel Petrella
Robert F. Ogilvie
Samuel W. Gordon
Carl F. Jackson
Robert T. Chesley

James E. Deal

Joe W. Reed

S. Dillon Ripley

Lee M. Talbot

Jean Delacour

James A. Sherburne
John C. Seidensticker IV
Leonard J. Goss
Carlton M. Herman
Paul Leyhausen

Charles R. Schroeder
OFFICE OF INTERNATIONAL PROGRAMS

rset a Bhs cate a ctisiel nyc inch Ra os Saya Wymberley D. Coerr
Administrative Assistant .............. Jean A. C. Harrell
Smithsonian Foreign Currency Program

ID IRECLOLHMR srs Mo Sere ss sire vaievg.s a afeoal diel Kennedy B. Schmertz
Brocramy@icer tiart deel. cnsteiocierec » aeieles LeRoy Makepeace
International Liaison Section

Prete HUIFCCEOL |. 2s. we sss ee okey 6 sie Richard T. Conroy
Peace Corps Environmental Program

Birecten dere? {snickers 0. ok Jeeta Robert K. Poole®
Center for Short-Lived Phenomena

"UE SETS bs ot ee ee Robert A. Citron

RADIATION BIOLOGY LABORATORY

Dre ClO ters pase oie cs o ecein ain wie Bote s William H. Klein

AacistantiDinectOr. Aveo: sarc oct ect oc W. Shropshire, Jr.

Agricultural Engineer’. (2.0). fi secre oe John Sager

PAM RRPODOIOPISE. 5 oi. a/c) dias see oeyee cise sie's + Robert Stuckenrath

BIOGHEONIS ESE iene nace cake cemeiesen ce arte David L. Correll
Maurice M. Margulies

IS See ees Pee OR: Sere hs a eee Elisabeth Gantt

Rebecca Hayes
Allan Michaels

(CNSR Pink tata, Ages orks a eae men earners Fetes David Severn

Genenciste pee t Wiis sce ce acre as dake Bronislaw Drozdowicz
Roy W. Harding, Jr.

EAN SICIS tar. eet aertk Maisie ne) seis sare ests Bernard Goldberg

Physiolopical Ecologist $.. .j......0)-)-+-.- Bert Drake

Pian NYSIOlOSISES 8 56 3. o.<cc.chos 3 os 0s Gerald Deitzer

John L. Edwards
Michael Read
William O. Smith, Jr.
Robert L. Weintraub
Jessie Weistrop
Barbara Zilinskas

SMITHSONIAN ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY

DREGE os 2 st iss aka Bw Sree Sue wat ha ea 6 George B. Field

Assistant Directotas.cct eee nee John G. Gregory

Scientific Staff:

Kaare Aksnes Kate K. Docken Jonathan Grindlay
Eugene H. Avrett Giovanni G. Fazio Mario D. Grossi
Nathaniel P. Carleton Edward L. Fireman Herbert Gursky
Frederic Chaffee William Forman Frank R. Harnden, Jr.
Guiseppe Colombo Fred A. Franklin John Hearnshaw
Allan F. Cook Edward M. Gaposchkin Henry F. Helmken
Alex Dalgarno Giorgio Giacaglia J. Patrick Henry
Robert J. Davis Riccardo Giacconi Luigi G. Jacchia
John Delvaille Owen Gingerich Paul Kalaghan
Dale F. Dickinson Paul Gorenstein Kenneth Kalata

®9 Resigned c.o.b. June 30, 1975.

Appendix 11. Staff of the Smithsonian Institution, June 30,1975 / 487
Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory—Cont.

Wolfgang Kalkofen
Edwin M. Kellogg
Hiroshi Kinoshita
Douglas Kleinmann
Yoshihide Kozai
Robert L. Kurucz
David Latham
Don A. Lautman
Myron Lecar
Carlton G. Lehr
John R. Lester
Martin Levine

A. Edward Lilley
Marvin Litvak
Rudolf Loeser
Nai-Hsien Mao
Brian G. Marsden
Edward Mattison
Ursula B. Marvin
Richard McCrosky
Donald H. Menzel

Lawrence W. Mertz
Henri E. Mitler

Paul A. Mohr

James Moran
Stephen S. Murray
Robert W. Noyes
Michael Oppenheimer
Costas Papaliolios
William H. Parkinson
Michael R. Pearlman
Harrison E. Radford
Edmond M. Reeves
Max Roemer

George B. Rybicki
Graham Ryder
Rudolph E. Schild
Herbert Schnopper
Ethan J. Schreier
Daniel A. Schwartz
Joseph Schwarz
Frederick Seguin

Harvard College Observatory Associates:

James G. Baker
John A. Ball
Barbara Bell

Paul W. Brumer
A. G. W. Cameron
Eric J. Chaisson
Marc Davis

Holly T. Doyle
Richard D. Driver
Andrea K. Dupree
Richard I. Epstein
Peter V. Foukal
Jay A. Frogel
Margaret Geller

Carl A. Gottlieb
Steven L. Guberman
Satoshi Hinata
Christine Jones-Forman
John L. Kohl

Max Krook

David Layzer
Randolph Levine
Margaret N. Lewis
Martha Liller
William Liller
Chii-Dong Lin

John E. Littleton
Alan Maxwell

Zdenek Sekanina
Richard B. Southworth
Douglas B. Stoeser
Harvey D. Tananbaum
Wesley A. Traub
Melville P. Ulmer
Leon van Speybroeck
George Veis

Robert Vessot

George Victor

Trevor C. Weekes
George Weiffenbach
Steven Weinberg

Fred L. Whipple
Charles A. Whitney
Marlene Williamson
George L. Withbroe
John A. Wood

Fred Young

Hans P. Palenius
Cecilia Payne-Gaposchkin
Eric Persson
Edward J. Schmahl
Charles Skinner
Peter L. Smith

J. Gethyn Timothy
Giuseppe S. Vaiana
Jorge E. Vernazza
William R. Ward
Frances W. Wright
Martin V. Zombeck

SMITHSONIAN SCIENCE INFORMATION EXCHANGE, INCORPORATED

President ............

ee ee

Vice President, Professional Services ....
Vice President, Data Processing ........
Secretary aocyrrieieir toe tens amnesic isc
FRTCASURETG Wy Hay cust ovender «sl steel one reioie omega nanmieme at ia
Aissistantilireasuneniens svcnire sels siete erencho eis
DirectonofMarketing ra. eeo aersen iar:
Marketing, Manageniyan s-rieiensioicie ate:

Science Division

DireGtOr ere ie Mae hier das ices Sika eee
Deputy; LifetSciences airs cian ache tee
Chief, Medical Sciences Branch ........
Chief, Behavioral Sciences Branch ......
Chief, Social Sciences Branch ..........

488 / Smithsonian Year 1975

David F. Hersey
Willis R. Foster
Martin Snyderman
V. P. Verfuerth
David W. Lakamp
Evelyn M. Roll
David W. Lakamp
Janet D. Goldstein

Willis R. Foster
Charlotte M. Damron
Charlotte M. Damron
Rhoda Goldman

Ann Riordan
William T. Carlson
James R. Wheatley, Jr.
Samuel Liebman
Samuel Liebman

Chief, Agricultural Sciences Branch .....
Chief, Biological Sciences Branch ......
Deputy, Physical Sciences .............
href, Chemistry Branch’. .-2..05.......
Chief, Materials and Engineering

PRUALYC LIBRE MOT, Settee eta erste ete oe isis anwiers
Chief, Physics, Mathematics and

Blectromecs Branchivss2. (oss ecco

William H. Payne

Robert Summers
Francis L. Witkege

Data Processing Division
IDATECLOLP ys Sh Os hs Se tie Se aidiele a5 se se
Deputy
Chief, Input Services Branch ...........
Chief, Systems Development Branch ....
Chief, Programming and Reports
SERGE DSEARICH o)ccc Gc. 520 ae nc te xis «at
Chief, Computer Operations Branch ....

Martin Snyderman
Bernard L. Hunt
Jack Devore
Bernard L. Hunt

Robert A. Kline
Paul Gallucci

SMITHSONIAN TROPICAL RESEARCH INSTITUTE

MORRO LAT RN oy oie) 5 [si sah.oh Y=, ard ypers wrssa\eie lage Ira Rubinoff
Special Assistant to Director .......... Adela Gomez
PSIG RAMMED KCCEOL <x aco 0 his s)s,¢ us bins o's 3 A. Stanley Rand
Assistant Director (Academic
RA IRIT NSS Ae eco essa hcks che aw oe Neal G. Smith
Wanunmistrative Officer... 6 a cesses s Thomas Borges
[LA SAEID, 2a eee SE eas ae ee Alcira Mejia
STTIT RVSTETE TS a Martin H. Moynihan

Scientific Staff:

Charles Birkeland?°
Robert L. Dressler
Peter W. Glynn
Jeffrey B. Graham
Egbert G. Leigh, Jr.
Olga F. Linares
David L. Meyer

Research Associates:

Robin Andrews

Carlos Arellano L.
Charles F. Bennett, Jr.
Mary Jane West Eberhard

David Ross Robertson
Arcadio Rodaniche
Michael H. Robinson
Roberta W. Rubinoff
Alan P. Smith
Nicholas Smythe
Hindrik Wolda

Yael D. Lubin
Ernst Mayr
Barbara Robinson
W. John Smith

William G. Eberhard
Nathan Gale

Pedro Galindo
Carmen Glynn

Henry Stockwell
Paulo E. Vanzolini
Martin Young

HISTORY AND ART

wssistant Secretary) 70. Skene. i663 Charles Blitzer
Program Management Officer .......... Dean Anderson
Bicentennial Coordinator .............. Susan Hamilton

10 Resigned June 26, 1975.

Appendix 11. Staff of the Smithsonian Institution, June 30,1975 / 489
ARCHIVES OF AMERICAN ART

| OF bel (1) Ace mT Cece Dicia DSC OIe 6 camino ond
Deputy Director-Archivist .............
Administrative Assistant ..............
Crator of Manuscripts). y.nc (sols sae) a.:
Assistant Curator of Manuscripts ......
Manuscripts Assistant 2 aj. 21 tel. <0
Arar DineCtOrs) cia. sais eke cre oieiohauntetn sao ol

EreldeResearchersaee eee eee one crc

ORMUSHEIAY Gece consmoancognoaueDaDeS

William E. Woolfenden
Garnett McCoy

Richard J. Nicastro

Arthur J. Breton

Nancy Zembala

Anne Nicastro

Butler Coleman (New York)
Robert Brown (Northeast)
Dennis Barrie (Midwest)
Paul Karlstrom (West Coast)
F. Ivor D. Avellino (New York)
Sylvia Loomis (Southwest)
Paul Cummings

COOPER-HEWITT MUSEUM OF DECORATIVE ARTS AND DESIGN

DDIT@CEOT: 5, sce ckece a sek ce penis ate cereal sgereus oie
Administrator and Curator of
Gollechons) .sh reer
Administrator
Curator of Drawings and Prints ........
Technician for Drawings and Prints ....
Assistant Curator of Textiles ..........
Gonsultantfonsliextilesmae- eer ern
Curator of Decorative Arts ............
Assistant Curator of Decorative Arts ...
Registrant cette. cevse-stapercnedrer ate eeeee sete sera
AssistantulNecistnar siciiicrae richest tele scene
Exhibits Specialist asc dees. os ns
Me b Garvan)... scsoreecravee ree eons es ees

Ce

FREER GALLERY OF ART.

| Dy id el (0) Uae G CREM MERON Ceo a .oro Teckaio cance near
AssistamtsDirectOn sacri cre clever:
Associate Curator, Chinese Art ........
Associate Curator, Near Eastern Art ....
Assistant Curator, American Art .......
Head Conservator, Technical Laboratory.
Gonservator cance nere tee oe ergs
Research Curator, Far Eastern

Geramics: 53a catotichekereccs ekoaidie tosis a) ase
Inesearch Assistant ries nec
Research Assistant, Herzfeld

IAT CHIV.GL 2a anaratsachseys Cavsehie eh aki denise toreeen

IREGISERAT™ Sletanerd,srate weve anmmnsre ater tee eens
Flonorary ASssociatesics'..1. sites othe

11 Resigned November 29, 1974.
12 Resigned February 21, 1975.

490 / Smithsonian Year 1975

Lisa Suter Taylor

Christian Rohlfing

John Dobkin

Elaine Evans Dee

Xenia Cage

Milton Sonday

Alice Baldwin Beer

J. Stewart Johnson
Catherine Frangiamore?
Mary Blackwelder?2
Mary Kerr

Dorothy Twining Globus
Robert Kaufmann

Harold P. Stern
Thomas Lawton
Hin-cheung Lovell
Esin Atil

Susan Hobbs

W. Thomas Chase III
John Winter

John A. Pope
Josephine H. Knapp

Joseph M. Upton
Priscilla P. Smith
Willa R. Moore
Eleanor Radcliffe
Richard Edwards
Calvin French
HILLWOOD

Special Assistant to the Secretary

PAE MNOOM oc: Scat fa aaa. oso '5 Richard H. Howland
CURSOR See ecto oe See Marvin C. Ross
NGSIStanity CUnatON meaty ott etsy <folsyeke «2019! Katrina V. H. Taylor
Administrative Officer 9. s.sna5s2..- << Lucille P. Burjorjee

THE HIRSHHORN MUSEUM AND SCULPTURE GARDEN

WDILCCLOM te ne os ote ast eae oS Abram Lerner
Manuimmrrector 22.0 £2 UF. SaR else. ss Stephen E. Weil
Aaministhatonucns <2 ote shee wore oS Joseph Sefekar
(Chandi? COnmeieie Sey aaa oe one ewer Charles W. Millard
Crimean” joan sores ie we oO mercs tian ce Cynthia J. McCabe
RGUEEEOGMM ER ts = a © crels SB bisis sige wens eis ierele © Inez Garson
@unatoriall Assistant 92). 3. Sao2So.. «55: Frank Gettings
uratorialvAssistant: itis cs. okie bet. se ees Phyllis Rosenzweig
Lo nce ee eee a Anna Brooke
KSQTISERV ALOT, seitimare css ric bbe soso HSS cls Laurence Hoffman
retary ok SAGER SA vk. id we ee oes Douglas Robinson
Ghreheraucation ... kits © Soe cron Ae sow Mary Ann Tighe
Program Manager (Auditorium) ........ Bonnie Webb
PS a ST ol i ee A a John Tennant
Braiding Wamaper .... . «062.6. eee ee Keith Cumberland
JOSEPH HENRY PAPERS
PRE ee eh Sore case eas Nathan Reingold
ING GIStan ty PGILOL 1 seo ou.) Sic Sie isk sues oh Arthur P. Molella
Wesistant EGHOr |... ones 4e soe es Michele L. Aldrich
Grateiistontane yo seer eo covon iis olioeia e James M. Hobbins
AgGmuinistrative Officer ............25.. Beverly Jo Lepley
ReseanchwASsistanb inns «icsttieiands.ceces Kathleen Waldenfels

NATIONAL ARMED FORCES MUSEUM ADVISORY BOARD

ITO EO Te oe Ts a oo terse James S. Hutchins?!3
Administrativer@fficer 412..." SdWide. <0 6.2 Miriam H. Uretz14

NATIONAL COLLECTION OF FINE ARTS

US ST Re oc Se ae Joshua C. Taylor
IASSIStan tLe COL: = « Seen chins ase «8 ss Harry Lowe
Assistant Director for Administration... Harry Jordan
SPEIER ea W. Robert Johnston
Curator, 20th Century Painting

ANGISCULPHITE: & «5. 4.5,0:5, 5 «pares sies) tvs eave a Walter Hopps
Consultant, 20th Century Painting

AMG SEUIpLure Sees ee AM 6 ets ee Adelyn Breeskin
Associate Curator, 18th-and 19th-

Century Painting and Sculpture ...... William H. Truettner
Curator, Prints and Drawings .......... Janet A. Flint
Garator of Education. 2/9566 oom os Peter Bermingham
Director, Renwick Gallery ............. Lloyd E. Herman
Associate Curator, Renwick Gallery ...._ | Michael Monroe
Seater Of RESCATCN. «oe. cic.soc ns v's ao so Lois M. Fink

13 Transferred to Eisenhower Institute, NMHT, June 8, 1975.
14 Transferred to National Collection of Fine Arts, June 22, 1975.

Appendix 11. Staff of the Smithsonian Institution, June 30,1975 / 491
National Collection of Fine Arts—Cont.
Coordinator, Bicentennial Inventory

of American’ Paintings’ . 222). . S60 Abigail Booth
Chief, Office of Exhibition and Design ..___ David Keeler
Chief, Office for Exhibitions Abroad .... Lois A. Bingham
Gonservators, oo eee iieraieree cis Thomas Carter

Katherine Eirk
Stefano Scafetta

Editor, Office of Publication ........... Carroll Clark
MibranianyNGPAVINRGHw) sao. oo William B. Walker
Coordinator for Lending Program ..... Donald R. McClelland

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF HISTORY AND TECHNOLOGY

Directors 3). ss de eR ee ise Brooke Hindle
Deputy; Directoresnvusiees Aeletae ss os) Silvio A. Bedini
Assistant Director for Administration... Robert G. Tillotson
Assistant Director for Design and

Productions... sone ot on eee eiome ae Benjamin W. Lawless
Registrar: ja. siscctdeidaticerecsivisica s 4a Virginia Beets
Special Events Officer(#/-2 i seca 3: -/<15- Rebecca B. Clapp
GoordinatorofEducation@e--eeo- Alice R. Malone

APPLIED ARTS

Ghatirimvanikey ese sie ae ee cde e oboe etalon rs Vladimir Clain-Stefanelli

Graphic Arts

INcsociates @uratOcsume enero Elizabeth M. Harris
Peter C. Marzio

Numismatics

GUA ALO TS Cea tee RE ced Vladimir Clain-Stefanelli

Elvira Clain-Stefanelli

Photographic History

Gurator ice v.65 ce) Seek ices | c/s Eugene Ostroff

Assistant. Guratoceeeeee eee eee David E. Haberstich

Postal History

Girator gee eee Ree etter reeietavers Carl H. Scheele

Associate ‘Guratorsiivee sar oicieetee ene eters Franklin R. Bruns
Reidar Norby

Textiles

Guratorszes Caer re oe pene Rita J. Adrosko
Grace R. Cooper

Honorary:

INumismiaticsh ess qserutacets cher er nersiors 5. R. Henry Norweb

Emery May Norweb

GEhairmiants te) TAM Meh Mas Pease Fas Richard E. Ahlborn
Senior Curator... ee eat C. Malcolm Watkins
Senion Historian! ee esc eee ee ae Daniel J. Boorstin
Costume and Furnishings

GUITALO BA ee ahi eI O Ee Ot Cesare aceiregs Rodris Roth
Associates @unatonmeeeee eee eenelae Claudia B. Kidwell
GuratoniEmenttusiamcerme ce cee eee Anne W. Murray

492 / Smithsonian Year 1975
Ethnic and Western Cultural History

GE ALOT ed nce «shel oeotetioehta ale cretets Richard E. Ahlborn

Musical Instruments

CGUITALOTS Ee ene ced a eecinversr et torennes John T. Fesperman
Cynthia A. Hoover

/NSSIGAA (CUNEO on Sip poucadcououmodod James M. Weaver

Preindustrial Cultural History

ccomtater GuratOn  araisive coals sists iol venciate Anne C. Golovin

Honorary:

Muasicalulnstruments ©... +000 sec e160 Mrs. Sheridan Germann

Preindustrial Cultural History ......... Joan Pearson Watkins

INDUSTRIES

KOhainmian mewn irs sis, 66 es cid eestor os John T. Schlebecker, Jr.

PIETY EMICTIEUS, 6.0 o)0i6 soo «ss ote 3s Howard I. Chapellet

Agriculture and Mining

(CHP. “SS UN ic Re OA ce a John T. Schebecker, Jr.

Wiesociate @lrator.. sciacc cc st oes Coens John N. Hoffman

Ceramics and Glass
‘Crenikore acts SE eee ee ae aes J. Jefferson Miller II
Paul V. Gardner

Manufacturing

Ncsistani@uratOr soo. ss acts sais secree © George T. Sharrer

Transportation

(ChIPATIOTS / oi eS aati ce OMA arena John H. White, Jr.
Melvin H. Jackson

JS Se Sie CTE) a eer ee Donald H. Berkebile

Honorary:

GeramicsandiGlassi ter. eae ene Hans Syz

RI ARRPEACEUITIND  oocis cals feds oe hots a ore os Philip W. Bishop

ME REIGRUREALION 15 chs 25) s)e co's oer e n'a ee whe Peter B. Bell

NATIONAL AND MILITARY HISTORY

(CNS ESET EW ee Margaret B. Klapthor

Military History

KGET OTR tes <x oe are tees Pa eee ihe aha! as Craddock R. Goins, Jr.

PES OCIALONCUTALOE 2608 65 ocho. cie eu ces sors Donald E. Kloster

Naval History
ROTTER Baie ofl «RIN oo) Sau fis + Sida Philip K. Lundeberg
Harold D. Langley

Political History

(CTIA IS ach leruicke naa igi te miele Sp anrIe Margaret B. Klapthor
Peesociate Garator o2 07: ee ee. ts se ei Herbert R. Collins
Eisenhower Institute for Historical Research

INC CEOLy eceic te ence yer eyeisi esis ne event ore heels Forrest C. Pogue
Honorary:

Pra AE TESEQEY pra f= foro) Wake ets oe wale spake William Rea Furlong

Malttary History 08256 ABs she swe os Anne S. K. Brown

+ Deceased June 30, 1975.

Appendix 11. Staff of the Smithsonian Institution, June 30,1975 / 493
SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY

Chairman: itech AR Maer 20% 5 Robert M. Vogel

Senior Scientific Scholar’.../..-....:.... Robert P. Multhauf

Histoxian «(Pharmacy) i seit sates = Sami K. Hamarneh

Electricity and Nuclear Energy

GuTrator sas Macatee te Raccetashederatncr stameter Bernard S. Finn

Associate: Gunatone rrr iirc Paul Forman

Mechanical and Civil Engineering

GuaAtOLS ee oe ecw ia eet ci cone ations Robert M. Vogel
Edwin A. Battison
Otto Mayr

Medical Sciences

Associate Curator welse sarees one eietnensis sone Audrey B. Davis

Physical Sciences

Associate Gunaton en somite erences: Deborah J. Warner

GuTAtory shyt dices Revere asi suctte colts oe sjieant Walter F. Cannon

AssociatelGuratonpmcr es iia ielen- Jon B. Eklund

Section of Mathematics

(CiUnEN IO} ean c.ditiorta camaictomed oe ote oremio ea ChOROsC Uta C. Merzbach

Honorary:

Electricity and Nuclear Energy ......... Ladislaus L. Marton
Gerald F. Tyne

Physicals Sciences). g. 285-0 cue canna heres Arthur Frazier

Science and Technology ........... 05>. Bern Dibner

OFFICE OF EXHIBITS

Assistant Director for Design

ANGUSTOGUCH ON Meer rerdlarir tr mentees Benjamin W. Lawless
GhicheExhibitssDesicnimeaemerieree aie Richard S. Virgo
Chief, Exhibits Production-r 2.205... ...- Stanley M. Santoroski

OFFICE OF BUILDING MANAGEMENT
Building: Manager’... .j.csicisinosciyeestoncheesiore Lawrence A. Bush
Assistant Building Manager ........... James W. Dodd

NATIONAL PORTRAIT GALLERY

Director 55 ek act oo eens oa lhe Marvin Sadik
Assistant Director and

Administrative Officer ....)..6 io ccce Douglas E. Evelyn
FIStOTIal eee ee ieee enc Marc Pachter
Curators A aoe eater eee er sane Robert G. Stewart
ASsociatenGuratoresse ieee einer Monroe Fabian
Goordinaton of Exhibitions’ 24. .0 5) 0.14 4- Beverly J. Cox
Guratorof Educationsn merece Dennis O’Toole
Associate Curator of Education ........ Lisa Strick
Chief, Exhibits Design and

Productions: jute del acon ae sete i tocne trae ete Joseph Michael Carrigan
Assistant Chief, Exhibits Design

and sErocdtuctionueeeerie ote eccinace Velda Warner
Keeper of the Catalog of

American LOLtnaltseeeeee eine eine Mona Dearborn
Jee vohdt, Sey aaa e chs RON ORGS Dolor -al tio opie aid Frances Wein
Senion @onsenvaton acetic Felrath Hines

494 / Smithsonian Year 1975
ipearian (NPG-NCEA) © 2. 0.0. 0s a eis William B. Walker

BROIBPTAPHEL «lath aise Oo mlo aertalvta wea 0's Eugene L. Mantie
RSET ATI hee fo is sas Josie an ieiave infae jalacale'a'e = Suzanne Jenkins
relic Attairs Officer ccc. aceieales ese « Carol Cutler

OFFICE OF ACADEMIC STUDIES

Pema Ve COMICER. cars oes ee es we cine oe Edward S. Davidson
EADY COMIC LD oe occa cree os ovo sates ine ata Gretchen Gayle

OFFICE OF AMERICAN STUDIES
[DIFRRa ID? 6S Si ene se ee Wilcomb E. Washburn

MUSEUM PROGRAMS

Prscistame Secretary, ..- si. oa 2 sys pe Paul N. Perrot
Executive Assistant . 2.20. ....00 00000: William N. Richards?!®
BREGEABCHAASSOCIALC ico a'e on ied ses oe Frank A. Taylor

CONSERVATION-ANALYTICAL LABORATORY

Oo STCL 2 Sh Ea ae ae eee Robert M. Organ
Rersrarein (ORGRISE 6 co of. we sige oo wee Jacqueline S. Olin
AMMEN ES CONSCEVALOL soj6 00 i006 5 :0.0.8 sores = Anton Konrad
Supervisory Conservator .............- Eleanor McMillan
Aaimuinistrative Officers)... 4. 3. «f+ 2s Montague Smith
OTISERVALOWE fee oe vis sae cao steele ere oe Walter Angst
RIES tae. hoe we caer Sia o mos Sg Claire M. Beerman
Wonsenvator one. ec st nos <eeenie oe a Mary L. Garbin
here mpasterieer yee ear sc eus rein etc Martha E. Goodway
CULTS nee Walter R. Hopwood
Imbormation Officer 2.4.5. 56055208652 see Nikki Horton
@onservation-Scientist)).. 20/2. 6..5 25: Barbara A. Miller
Gonsenvation-Scientist 20: 25505. 5.c...- Joan W. Mishara
(COMBS AVEILO Oris erGELoG a rae ein Cc .e a eerie Steven A. Tatti
SUNSETS: 5 oye Barts Gn ene Harold Westley

SE DED ISR eee I Ae ne ek a Judith A. Woodland

OFFICE OF EXHIBITS CENTRAL

COLE | SR James A. Mahoney
NG sistamite Gite tis eiarshs cin store cia erleaersiet Constance Minkin
Administrative Officer 2. ....02-.2---- - William M. Clark
GhiehiofsDesip ns ase oe eet ate la's0~ sho hesksue' @ James A. Mahoney
Assistant Chief of Design ............. Kenneth V. Young
Ghichoperoductione jn docs eae John C. Widener
Assistant Chief of Production .......... Joseph W. Saunders
Supervisor, Exhibit Editors Office ....... Constance Minkin
Director, Motion Picture Unit .......... Karen Loveland
Supervisor, Museum Lighting Unit ..... Carroll B. Lusk

OFFICE OF MUSEUM PROGRAMS
Assistant Director and Administrator,
National WMiniscumeAcke asseeee oor C. Frederick Schmid?!&
15 Appointed January 6, 1975.
16 Resigned March 31, 1975.

Appendix 11. Staff of the Smithsonian Institution, June 30,1975 / 495
Office of Museum Programs—Cont.

Administrative Assistant .............
Program Coordinator, Conservation
Information eno cmameretae sey tert er
Program Coordinator, Training
Workshop Prograny 2085. a ote
Museum Studies Specialist ............
Research PsychGlogisty a. a) ccc s cea:
Museum Studies Specialist ............
Television Production Specialist .......

OFFICE OF REGISTRAR

Archivist and Registrar pro tem ........
Supervisory Registrar Technician ......
Supervisory Transportation Specialist ..

Gwendolyn Baker
Elena Borowski

Jane R. Glaser
Marilyn S. Cohen
Robert A. Lakota
Margaret B. Parsons
Michael B. Sassani

Richard H. Lytle
Margaret A. Santiago
Gleason R. Shaver

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION ARCHIVES

Archivist and Registrar pro tem ........
Deputy Archivist’ ee sci. 2.11 eine cae rere
Ncsistante Archivist rai errr
Assistant Archivist ice ciiscre
NesistantAnchiviStes emer oie
Supervisory Archives Technician ......

Richard H. Lytle
William A. Deiss
Alan L. Bain
James A. Steed
Richard V. Szary
Norwood N. Biggs

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION LIBRARIES

Director of Libraries ..................
Assistant to the Director for Planning
ancdulweseancherwinehe wicks ieee re
Ndministrativerlbibrantane sere een
NAministrativier © Micen seiner ere
Assistant Director of Libraries for
Bureatl Servicesi eicei. cits seme aes
Deputy Assistant Director of Libraries
fore lehom(aeiol GHAR sadocceosoecedor
Assistant Director of Libraries for
GeneraltServicesio cocci cei

Access Services

GRie fi hye ered: emer baa a a Me

IXccistantiChictaeranoia eerie ier

Bibliographer for the History of Science
and Technology ijsc.3. Ard aati ie co se

Technical Processes Center

(G) cil Rie ape eacirctrts direc mn kotintessetatenstececlececiienes Ot
Special’ Projects Librarian™.....-%-=~5 >
Acquisitions Division

Gi e faye ers eet Mae Cr Sets eg aoe ee ecg
Gift and Exchange Librarian ..........
Order Librarianeere eee eee ence
Senialsuibranianuas oer secon eee

17 Appointed February 2, 1975.

496 / Smithsonian Year 1975

Russell Shank

Elaine Sloan
Thomas L. Wilding
Mary C. Quinn

Jean C. Smith
L. Frances Jones

Philip Leslie

Jack F. Marquardt
Amy E. Levin

Jack S. Goodwin

Vija L. Karklins
Toni M. Henderson?’

Mildred D. Raitt
Sharon H. Sweeting
William B. Neff
Robert W. Hull
Catalog Division

(Cae os a en ee eoe trols Hee Sor ene Mary Jane H. Linn

PE PMPET GI air k .'e sieterais vise dnfele As os nc Angeline D. Ashford
Charles H. King
Helen S. Nordberg
Margaret A. Sealor
Bertha S. Sohn
Frances W. Penford
Joan C. Baer!§ (Rare Book)

Processing Section
CINIC? 19 a herent RENOIR OR GicRA CRO ao eae Mary J. Pierce

Bureau Libraries
Cooper-Hewitt Museum of Decorative Arts and Design

PPR INIT none cy sss cgeye. sya leinws lave a Robert C. Kaufmann?®
Freer Gallery of Art

[LFTSUCETAY as Geiger Choe ae NO Ree aI teres Priscilla B. Smith
Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden

PRAT Soe Sess he oe cas cesses aes Anna M. Brooke
National Air and Space Museum
[LFlenanrer.--poglteeeoe o cos oe eos & faa Catherine D. Scott
Referencer librarians .)s.76 sjssechshaie cies oiee Dominick A. Pisano?°
National Collection of Fine Arts and National Portrait Gallery
ROSE PEE ARNE N ig ictt «2m Aha brake hehe 3 a sie, William B. Walker
ReterencesMibrariamy acyscier & ctelshende-«. si sveus Katharine Ratzenberger
Slide and Photograph Librarian ........ Eleanor Fink
National Museum of History and Technology

[Lilerea etal” GP aati epete re eine nach Er ceene ane Frank A. Pietropaoli
RSEerORCEUPIDTALIAN) ij. <1<)0)+ joie n-sio.n's 20.2 Charles G. Berger
References librarian: (2.01.8 2 <e1< 56 eras is « Barbara F. Veloz?1
ean OE a PADEALIAN prsrajhcvans oie. os ss William J. Leugoud??
National Museum of Natural History

PROCEMIPMEMDTALIAN, 5 5. <\s 2 3isie see's viele oe ve ws Jean C. Smith
Botany Branch Librarian ..... 02.52... Ruth F. Schallert
National Zoological Park

we DEE ee Mary Clare Cahill
Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory

ESE MAUI 2 2 hav chins) oS 6 Hi0,d ore a4. ENS Joyce M. Rey
Smithsonian Radiation Biology Laboratory

CATES S2 Ty i No be ee ao Oe Mary Clare Cahill
Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute

1 274 DTI rene en nae ei oie era ie Alcira Mejia
Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars

LESS ae eee ee Zdenek David

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION TRAVELING EXHIBITION SERVICE

DIISCCLOLE Ee ore e roe carte tiaane Dennis Gould
Administrative Assistant ......-+....... Antonio Diez

18 Appointed June 1, 1975.
19 Appointed January 6, 1975.
20 Appointed April 6, 1975.
21 Appointed April 13, 1975.
22 Appointed May 21, 1975.

Appendix 11. Staff of the Smithsonian Institution, June 30,1975 / 497
Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service—Cont.

Program Officer and Senior Exhibition
Goordinator ye teen ete ee eee ene cee

Anne Gossett

“International Salute to the States” Program

Project Goordinatonm ease eee eis

Public Affairs Officer and Exhibitions
Goordinator oon oe ee eons

Secretary

Sa) DebeCeGho.Os0lD OOsOsOscuoro) UeosOsOECh OFOiK

Bicentennial Program

Bicentennial Exhibitions Coordinator ...

RrogramiGoordinaton essa ee eee

Exhibitions (Goordinatom sss. eee oe

Assistant Exhibitions and Program
Coordinators ee se oe ee

Secretary

General Exhibitions Program

Exhibitions) Goordinatonm seen eee
Exhibitions) Goordinatom eee eee ee
Science Exhibitions Coordinator .......
Science Assistantieccna soe racine ite ens
Program Coordinator
Registrar
Assistant Registrarienemccec eee
Accountant
RECEPLHONISEMIE ei eG is de eile Se nee o (6 ovepeicc

ee

Ss) o0\'s) w <)\e (0 6 0) 8) 0! e ‘6! va! eee 0) 6 6) e/.0

PUBLIC SERVICE

Assistant Secretary .................4.
Executive Assistant

Eileen Rose

Eileen Harakal
Karen Hinkle

Andrea Stevenes
Robin Lynn
William Kloss

Lary Rosenblatt
Emily Dyer

Quinton Hoglund
Regina Lipsky
Deborah Dawson
Martha Cappelletti
Marjorie Share
Kathleen S. Hopkins
Michele Ruddy
Marie-Claire Jean
Zaida Gipson

Julian T. Euell
Edward F. Rivinus
Jewell S. Dulaney

ANACOSTIA NEIGHBORHOOD MUSEUM

Director
Supervisory Program Manager
Education Department eaeaeee esate
Supervisory Program Manager Research
and Design Department ............
Exhibits Project Coordinator ..........
Supervisory Exhibits Specialist ........
Program Manager
Education Specialist (Research) ........
Special Projects Assistant .............
Program Specialist. <\\ cnn. oes neck nse:
Exhibits Specialist
Exhibits Specialist
Research» Assistant 4 sects 45 uci sees

CY OOOO OCC) On Onn OCC CNOn Cs Ci End)

DO (Omen Onc) Crom Or OntyDs Ci zara

DIVISION OF PERFORMING ARTS

Director
Deputy Directors cc aa seca oeeee
Special Assistant to the Director .......

8) fei iene) (n) iw) fe] (ee) (a) ee) (e) ia) (ile) eizel leva) (al iej\euaveliel ace

498 / Smithsonian Year 1975

John R. Kinard
Zora B. Martin

Larry Erskine Thomas
Charles W. Mickens
James E. Mayo
Fletcher A. Smith
Louise D. Hutchinson
Balcha Fellows
Carolyn Margolis
James Campbell
James Daniels

John Tetrault

Audrey Archer

James R. Morris
Richard P. Lusher
Ruth Jordan
Director, Festival of American Folklife .
Program Development Officer .........
Folklore Presentation Specialist ........
WiIKectOr,, |aZzZPLLOPTAM 52. 0ee kia. 26 oss
Production Manager «2... <.ss02s+ 535
PupicrAtrairs Officer... .... 02.2655 ¢
Public Information Officer ............
Beeciph Specialists. 22 . it Seventy. <3

Ralph C. Rinzler
Robert Byington
Ernestine Potter
Martin Williams

B. C. May

Susanne Roschwalb
Manuel Melendez
Janet Stratton

OFFICE OF ELEMENTARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION

- Education Program Coordinator .......
Assistant Education Coordinator ......
Writer/Editor

OFFICE OF PUBLIC AFFAIRS

Director
SCCIAIMASSIStANt # etn. er eines «cls
Administrative Officer
inecimNews bureall on. ons ee ate
MOK AOM OMICET A. 5 ao crysis sts os 40)8
Pakornratiom ORICEr. < sp. dc.5,6 ashe <6 os
MMBEEE EGON... cs ics ac)2 «cine vs ss
Spectalievents Officer . 2.25.5... 6.850.
Assistant Special Events Officer .......
Pupieations Officer... . 2.52... . 2 otek
Telecommunications Coordinator ......
Telecommunications Specialist ........
Special Coordinator for Public Affairs ..
List Management Specialist ...........

David W. Estabrook
Selma A. Searles
Ann P. Bay

Carl W. Larsen
Richard Friedman
Muriel J. Slaughter
Gerald Lipson
(vacancy)

Johnnie M. Douthis
Lilas P. Wiltshire
Meredith Johnson
Jeanette C. Gladstone
William O. Craig
Nazaret Cherkezian
Paul B. Johnson
William C. Grayson
Maxwell G. Courtney III?

OFFICE OF SMITHSONIAN SYMPOSIA AND SEMINARS

eiianie [a «\ueletefelia ve, siecle, a's) ‘elie! ef e is) 0 © 16) 5 \a

READING IS FUNDAMENTAL, INC.

Chairman of the Board ................
SGI) Doe en ee oe
Pirectorof Development’. 25... 2.52 55.
EtOprany Director S54 aes. ee eke
Assistant Program Director ...........
Regional Director, Pittsburgh, Pa. .....
Regional Director, Scottsdale, Ariz. ....
momimistrative Officer 2.2): as son ons oe
EXECHUVE PAGSISEANEt Nena as oe hele
PTOPEAM ASSISEANE: ./5 o/c sc0 4 oes «oes cee
Administrative Assistant ..............

23 Deceased August 10, 1975.

Wilton S. Dillon
Dorothy Richardson

Mrs. Robert S. McNamara
Dr. Sidney Nelson
Edwin W. Kaler
Barbara B. Atkinson
Bibiana N. Mays
Austina V. Bradley
Barbara H. Ronan
Mary C. Massey
Esther F. Levy
Susan M. Straus
Victoria K. Garfink
M. Sue McLaughlin
Gail R. Haken

Appendix 11. Staff of the Smithsonian Institution, June 30,1975 / 499
Reading is Fundamental, Inc.—Cont.

Newsletter Circulation Manager ....... Kathryn M. Forrester
Secretary, Pittsburgh’ Passes decisis ue V. Lynn Bradley
Secretary, Scottsdale, Ariz. ........... Sharon E. McDonald

SMITHSONIAN (MAGAZINE)

Editor and Publisher .................. Edward K. Thompson

Members, Board of Editors ............ Ralph Backlund
Grayce P. Northcross
James K. Page, Jr.
Edwards Park

General (Manager. choi. tiss hobs teats oe ae Joseph J. Bonsignore
Advertising DirectORua. ys .o6 sce oot oe Thomas H. Black
Circulation-Promotion Director ........ Anne Keating

SMITHSONIAN ASSOCIATES

Smithsonian National Associates Program
General ‘Managertiviisinas ee tinea n cee Robert H. Angle*
Director, Reception Center ............ Mary Grace Potter

Staff of Visitor Information and Associates Reception Center:
Dorothy Adamson Maria Heasly
Carolyn Clampitt Winifred Keating
Sally Covel Ada Taylor
Margaret Ellis

Smithsonian Resident Associate Program

Director... c\c eat tees PRI ane Janet W. Solinger
Assistant Director for Administration .. Edward H. Able, Jr.
Assistant Director for Programming .... William H. Turner
Program! Goordinatons v4 ics eels 5) es Leslie L. Buhler
Carolyn A. Hecker
Moya B. King
Susan E. Stob
Assistant Program Coordinators ....... Judith L. Engels
Roberta G. Lederer
Membership Coordinator ............. Jeanne B. George
AGE Directon ete Arse Margaret V. Lee
Information Specialist/Editor,

The Smithsonian Associate .......... Edward P. Gallagher
Registrar: Classes and Crafts .......... Xenia Sorokin Arnelle
Registrar: Special Events, Trips, and

ROUTS cite cee uaa cee trae ea st Estelle Friedman
Coordinator of Volunteers ............ Elinor Emlet

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION PRESS

DiTeClOr 5 Socios ashe tape mye neice teh Gordon Hubel
Managing ‘Designer si 5 4. qe cee iyi eins Stephen Kraft
Promotion Manager ame tia. cu uals ete Maureen R. Jacoby
Business; Managergs jee. era een ott. Frederick H. MacVicar
Series; Managing, Editor (0. 2022 je.,.99 008 Albert L. Ruffin, Jr.
Series Production Manager ............ Charles L. Shaffer

* Administered by the Office of Membership and Development.

500 / Smithsonian Year 1975
Designer to the Smithsonian ..........
Editors

OOVETS Sra] 82 co) dl a
MMCMPITEESS F805. 5ys ha sd atotgs Ate 2 tape shes

Crimilda Pontes
Mary Frances Bell
Ernest E. Biebighauser
Louise J. Heskett
Joan B. Horn
Mary M. Ingraham
John S. Lea

Nancy L. Powars
Hope G. Pantell
Natalie Bigelow
Elizabeth Sur

ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT

SUPPORT ACTIVITIES

DESIEGIO? 5.0: cick Se eIO MOR Seas ener iereeions
Contracting Officer, Contracts Office ...
Director, Management Analysis Office ..
Director, Office of Computer Services ..
Director, Office of Equal Opportunity ..
Director, Office of Personnel
Administration
Director, Office of Protection Services ..
Chief, Travel Services Office ..........
Director, Office of Plant Services ......
Director, Office of Facilities Planning
and Engineering Services ...........
Director, Office of Printing and
Photographic) Services «. .s55 2620+ <
Director, Office of Supply Services .....

FINANCIAL SERVICES

Treasurer
Assistant Treasurer (Accounting) ......
Assistant Treasurer (Programming and
DUE SS) ) 2 ao Oe eee Gee eee
Business Manager
MP EANCCOMitAnY 22.080. b .ciSastec cen »
Manager, Grants and Insurance Division
Chief, Investment Accounting Division .
Director, Smithsonian Museum Shops ..
Director, Belmont Conference Center ..

Bie \e Sle, cele e's «8 6'e 6.0 ¢ o § Oe e110 6,610 8

OFFICE OF AUDITS

RC CEOTI es os A Boo ee ee
assistant (DITectOr £ ys.5 1 sido eyaceeinee osc
Assistant:  ITe Cloris s2h= se cihc tacts ee Ses

Richard L. Ault
Elbridge O. Hurlbut
Ann S. Campbell
Stanley A. Kovy
Archie D. Grimmett

Howard Toy
Robert B. Burke, Jr.
Betty V. Strickler
Kenneth E. Shaw

Phillip K. Reiss

Arthur L. Gaush
Harry P. Barton

T. Ames Wheeler
Betty J. Morgan

John F. Jameson
Richard Griesel
Allen S. Goff

Phillip A. Babcock
Ernest A. Berger
William W. Rowan III
Joanne S. Baker Kugel

Chris S. Peratino
Roland N. Thompson
Patrick J. Stanton

INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGE SERVICE

DISCCION Sos oe CO ee nee

Appendix 11. Staff of the Smithsonian Institution, June 30,1975 / 501

John E. Estes
NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART

President vaiyse opts Gee s- peteeials isn Paul Mellon
Wicepbresidentinceie eee onan John Hay Whitney
Director 1c boos DI eke Sakae J. Carter Brown
ASsistant sD iInectOmmeerie: wiantiettcronoits Charles P. Parkhurst
PLEASUTE cnc oersla ers <Ghoas te SUIS prey Lloyd D. Hayes
Administeaton. o- saue aie «2 Maia bono Joseph G. English
Secretary and General Counsel ........ Robert Amory, Jr.
Staff:
Assistant to the Director, Music ....... Richard Bales
Assistant to the Director, National

PROGRAMS) Heke cients rcdene neha ae Oones W. Howard Adams
Assistant to the Director, Public

Informationreymemer hee eos ce Katherine Warwick
Planning Gonsultant ees cece David W. Scott
GonstnuctionsManaverssenacierir ee Hurley Offenbacher
Curator of American Painting ......... William P. Campbell
Ghichlibrarians ee eee eae J. M. Edelstein
Chief, Education and Public Programs . Margaret I. Bouton
Edatoreiy rece ramen secre eines kre rats oases Theodore S. Amussen
Chief, Photographic Laboratory ........ Henry B. Beville
Curator of Photographic Archives ..... Alessandro Contini-Bonacossi
Semon) COnSenvatOn seers yc Victor C. B. Covey
GChichomPeExhibitionsmmer: meareroera coe Jack C. Spinx
Curator of Tuscan, Umbrian and Early

Italiane Painting <issi< 5 st se. eta cieiee roe David A. Brown
GuratonofGraphiceArtsie eee eee: Andrew Robison
Senromkesearchs Guratoneeree seen eae Konrad Oberhuber
Curator of French Painting ........... David E. Rust
Guratomofroculptureie asaeee remo cee C. Douglas Lewis, Jr.
Curator of Twentieth Century Art ..... E. A. Carmean, Jr.
Curator of Venetian, Northern and

Later Italian: Painting 2i.c)2<c. 2 vane Sheldon Grossman
Curator of Northern European Painting. John O. Hand
INGE ING ITA socooancacocon0ooc James W. Woodard
Assistant Administrator ../..4........ George W. Riggs
Rersonnela@fiicermee econo Jeremiah J. Barrett

JOHN F. KENNEDY CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS

Honorary Chatrmeniecie.eeceaten. 5 en6 Mrs. Gerald R. Ford
Mrs. Richard M. Nixon
Mrs. Lyndon B. Johnson
Mrs. Aristotle Onassis
Mrs. Dwight D. Eisenhower
Chairman’ 3/:.5)05 sha oie es oe awe ates Roger L. Stevens
Wicem@hairmen nee es nee cae Harry C. McPherson, Jr.
Charles H. Percy
Henry Strong

General’ Gounselieccce onset nea Ralph E. Becker
Acting Secretary. O25. oc) eae te Charlotte Woolard
SINPCASUTER care A ceorcnctes ct orci one cic oe Eee W. Jarvis Moody
Executive Director of Performing Arts . Martin Feinstein
General Manager of Theaters ......... Alexander Morr

502 / Smithsonian Year 1975
Muxector Of Publicity «5.5%. 62.6 o.608 . 3 Wayne Shilkret
MtectOnr.OF Edtication’ .)..\0. 5.5 6.6.0 css F. W. Rogers
ENGSIStANt TTEASUTETS! «5 «so <cts cc eco ae James F. Rogers
William H. Ryland
Henry Strong
Peter M. van Dine
Maxine F. Wininger

WOODROW WILSON INTERNATIONAL CENTER FOR SCHOLARS

LES DS ea James H. Billington
Special Assistant to the Director ....... Robert L. McCan
Assistant Director for Administration .. William M. Dunn
PNGSIStan tele GtOR Ws.c:s.s, c)<ccccs vs see le ol Michael J. Lacey
ILTISYREYTTIGW A) | ARate Ay One eae ae Zdenek V. David

Appendix 11. Staff of the Smithsonian Institution, June 30,1975 / 503
APPENDIX 12. Smithsonian Associates Membership, 1974-1975

CONTRIBUTING MEMBERSHIPS

SPONSOR MEMBER ($10,000 and up)

Mr. Henry J. Heinz II

FOUNDER MEMBERS ($1,000 and up)

Mr. Paul Davies
Mr. Christian Heurich, Jr.

Mrs. Harold Kersten
Mrs. Frances F. Smith

SUSTAINING MEMBERS ($500 and up)

Mr. and Mrs. Arthur W. Bedell
Mrs. Katherine H. Benedict
Mrs. Frank A. Berg

Dr. Erika Bruck

Mr. Frederick R. Goff

Mr. and Mrs. Frank Ikard
Miss Frances L. Van Schaick
Mr. and Mrs. Page W. Smith

DONOR MEMBERS ($100 and up)

Mr. Ivan Allen, Jr.
Mrs. Loma M. Allen
Mrs. Francis M. Allensworth
Mr. and Mrs. Philip W. Amram
Mr. and Mrs. Richard Anable
Mr. John D. Archbold
Mr. Arthur Armstrong
Mr. and Mrs. Frank C. Baldwin
Mr. and Mrs. James C. Barbour
Miss Mary Barbour
Mrs. Paul F. Barham
Lt. Gen and Mrs. Earl W. Barnes
The Most Reverend William
W. Baum
Mrs. John D. Beatty
Mr. and Mrs. Bernhard G.
Bechhoefer
Mr. and Mrs. Roger K. Becker
Mr. and Mrs. John M. Begg
Mr. and Mrs. Spencer M. Berger
Mr. Samuel W. Bernheimer
Mr. and Mrs. Charles Blackledge
Mr. and Mrs. C. William Bliss
Mrs. Chambers Boehringer
Mr. and Mrs. J. B. Bogan
Mr. and Mrs. J. G. Bonner
Mr. Vincent B. Boris
Mr. and Mrs. F. Borowsky

504 / Smithsonian Year 1975

Mr. and Mrs. John Boyd

Mr. Maxwell Brace

Mrs. Francis K. Bragg

Mr. Glenn M. Branch

Mr. J. Bruce Bredin

Mrs. Mary M. Brennan

Mrs. Donald Brewer

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Brown, Jr.

Mr. William A. Bryson, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. C. Walter Buhler

Dr. and Mrs. Curt F. Buhler

Mr. and Mrs. Edward P. Bullock

Mrs. Harry Burcalow

The Honorable and Mrs. William
A. M. Burden

Mrs. Paul P. Burdon

Mrs. Jackson Burke

Mr. and Mrs. Harry Burns

Miss Harriet Burroughs

Dr. and Mrs. J. A. Burwell

Mr. Marion B. Busch

Mr. E. T. Byram

Mr. Carlton E. Byrd

Dr. and Mrs. Charles M. Cabaniss

Mr. James Cagney

Captain Terence L. Cahill

Mr. and Mrs. James K. Campbell

Mrs. Susan Campbell
Mr. and Mrs. Woolsey Carmalt
Mr. and Mrs. H. E. Carrico
Mrs. J. Lawrence Carroll

Miss Mary Carson

Mr. and Mrs. William F. Cassidy
Mr. and Mrs. James G. Chandler
Mrs. Dorothy Christoph

Miss Priscilla M. Christy

Mr. Blake Clark

Mr. Robert Clark, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. William W. Cobey
Mrs. Rachael Nall Cochran
Mrs. George Collar

Mrs. J. Lawrence Collar

Ms Jean H. Conway

Mr. William J. Corbett, Jr.

Mr. Albert H. Cousins, Jr.

Miss Mary Cox

Mrs. Raymond E. Cox

Mrs. Mary Faye Craft

Mrs. Horace S. Craig

Mr. Wellington Cummer

Mrs. Deborah L. Currier

Mrs. Chester Dale

Mr. Glenn Dallman

Mrs. Cicely D’Angleton

Capt. R. L. Daniels

Dr. and Mrs. L. L. Daviet

Dr. and Mrs. Ray H. Davies
Miss Elizabeth C. Davis

Mr. and Mrs. Ray H. Davies
Mrs. Alva A. Dawson

Mr. Alan L. Dean

Mr. and Mrs. Charles L. Dean
Dr. and Mrs. Lewis Hilliard Dennis
Dr. and Mrs. B. N. Desenberg
Mr. Wallace Dewitt

Mrs. A. Henry Detweiler

Mrs. Katherine Dickson

Mr. and Mrs. Allen T. Dittmann
Dr. and Mrs. Lowell R. Ditzen
Mr. and Mrs. Leonard G. Doak
Mrs. Maren L. Donohue

Capt. and Mrs. Robert F. Doss
Mrs. William G. Dreisbach
Mrs. Gurnee Dyer

Mr. and Mrs. Charles Eames
Mr. and Mrs. Robert Earnest
Mrs. Charlotte Nall Eddins
Mr. and Mrs. Edward C. Edgar
Mr. George M. Elsey

Miss Ann Erdman

Mr. and Mrs. John G. Esswein
Mr. S. Ethridge

Miss Rondeau Evans

Mrs. Katherine M. Finan

Mr. and Mrs. S. Greenhoot Fischer

Mr. and Mrs. Joel H. Fisher

Mr. and Mrs. M. F. Flaherty

Mr. Robert W. Fleming

The Honorable and Mrs. Edward
Foley

Mr. Harlan B. Forbes

Mr. Earl M. Foreman

Mrs. Henry P. Fowler

Mr. and Mrs. Raymond R. Fox

Ms Doris C. Freedman

Mrs. Rowland G. Freeman

Mr. and Mrs. Arthur H. Fribourg

Mr. W. C. Frogale

Mr. and Mrs. Geoffrey S. Fuller

Mr. and Mrs. Sebastian Gaeta

Mr. and Mrs. Arthur W. Gardner

Mrs. T. Fleetwood Garner

Mr. T. Jack Gary

Miss Lutrelle P. Gearhart

Mrs. V. J. Gianelloni

Miss Edith C. Gibney

Mr. and Mrs. W. T. Gillham

Mrs. Jeanne A. Glaspey

Mr. and Mrs. T. K. Glennan

Dr. and Mrs. Jerome N. Goldman

Dr. and Mrs. Arthur Goldsmith

Col. and Mrs. Julius Goldstein

Mrs. J. L. Goodwin

Mrs. Evelyn Gottlieb

Mrs. Katherine Graham

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Graham

Mrs. Gilbert C. Greenway

Dr. and Mrs. John N. Grekin

Mrs. Beatrice Grieder

Mr. John F. Gunnell

Dr. Mary A. Hall

Mrs. Isaac Hamburger

Mr. Courtnay C. Hamilton, Jr.

Mr. Gordon Hanes

Ms Morella R. Hansen

Mr. Sol Harris, Jr.

Mr. David T. Harvey, Jr.

Mrs. Robert A. Heiderer

Mr. Robert Heil

Mrs. Joseph D. Heiman

Mr. Alverne S. Hellenthal

Dr. and Mrs. L. M. Hellman

Mr. Jeffery L. Hendry

Mr. Charles A. Hess

Mr. and Mrs. Marvin Hirsh

Mr. and Mrs. Albert G. Hoffman, Jr.

Mrs. Arthur D. Holmes

Mr. and Mrs. Hugh H. Honnen

Mr. and Mrs. Arthur A. Houghton

Mr. and Mrs. Samuel G. Houghton

Appendix 12. Smithsonian Associates / 505
Donor Members ($100 and up)—Cont.

Lt. Col. and Mrs. S. S. Houston
Mrs. John C. Hover

Mrs. Sara H. Howden

Miss Marcellina Hummer

Mr. and Mrs. William R. Hunter
Mr. and Mrs. Claude D. Hurd
Mr. F. I. Hutchins

Mr. Elton M. Hyder, Jr.

Mrs. S. T. Inglish

Mr. J. Rukin Jelks, Jr.

Mrs. J. J. Jewett, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Ray C. Johnson, Jr.
Miss Helen L. Johnston

Mr. G. Quinton Jones, Jr.

Miss Mary W. Juday

Mr. and Mrs. C. S. Justman
Miss Julia H. Kaminski

Mr. E. J. Kazanowski

Ms Sheila A. Keefe

Mrs. Margaret P. Kelly

Miss Magda Kende

Miss Irene Kent

Mrs. Norma Kerr

Mr. Walter H Kidd

Mr. Charles T. Kindsvatter
Rev. Bernard J. Kirchman
Mrs. O. W. Kirkpatrick

Miss Melissa J. Knapp

Mr. and Mrs. Edward Knight
Mrs. Samuel B. Knight

Mr. and Mrs. Peter O. Knowles
Mr. Conrad Kopala

Mr. Laurence E. Korwin

Mr. John Kraft

Mr. Raoul Kulberg

Mrs. Ella Kunkel

Mrs. Thomas B. Lacey

Miss Lucy Lee Lancaster

Mr. and Mrs. Anthony A. Lapham
Dr. K. C. Latven

Mr. and Mrs. Paul Laurenson
Miss Dorothy Lauson

Mrs. Ann W. Lawrence

Col. and Mrs. George Lear

Dr. Rhoda P. LeCocq

Miss Julia R. Lee

Miss Mary Nelson Lee

Miss Marguerite T. Lelaurin
Miss Elsie W. Letson

Mrs. A. Morris Levy

Mr. Charles R. Lewellen

Dr. and Mrs. W. Reese Lewis
Mr. Frank W. Lindenberger
Mr. and Mrs. Owen S. Lindsay
Mr. and Mrs. Ray Lindsey

506 / Smithsonian Year 1975

Mrs. Edward Loewenstein

Mr. and Mrs. Martin L. Loftus
Mrs. John E. Long

Mr. and Mrs. George R. Louden
Ms Genevieve Lukawiecki

Mr. D. K. MacDonald

Mr. and Mrs. John P. MacKinnon
Mrs. Elizabeth MacLatchie

Mrs. Eleanor B. MacLaurin

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas P. Maffitt
Mr. Thomas A. Magee, Jr.

Miss Margaret E. Mahin

Mrs. Herbert V. Martyn
Margaret, Duchess of Argyll
Mr. Larry B. Marton

Mrs. Adrienne C. Masterson
Mrs. Barbara F. Masur

Mrs. A. Leander McAlister

Mr. Donald L. McCathran

Mrs. Margaret McClellan

Mrs. James R. McCredie

Miss Dorothea McGhee

Mr. and Mrs. George C. McGhee
Dr. and Mrs. John J. McGrath
Mr. and Mrs. K. M. McLaren
Mr. and Mrs. Richard R. McLauglin
Mr. and Mrs. Leo A. McNalley
Mr. J. Jerome McNally

Dr. Max B. McQueen

Mrs. David W. Measuroll

Mr. and Mrs. Richard J. Medalie
Miss Maxine Merrick

Mr. Harold E. Mertz

Mr. David Messent

Mr. and Mrs. L. Meyer

Mr. William L. Middleton

Dr. Frank E. Midkiff

Mr. George C. Miles

. and Mrs. E. Kirkbridge Miller
. Justine Milliken

. G. Mills

.and Mrs. William J. Milton
Dr. Erna Moss

Mr. Willis Moore

. and Mrs. Charles H. Morgan
. and Mrs. Carl Mulert

. and Mrs. Duncan Munro

. and Mrs. Michael Muntner

. C. Edward Murray

Mrs. Robert M. Myers

Miss Emily Nathan

Rev. Robert G. Navarre

Mrs. Frederic W. Ness

Mr. Thomas S. Nichols

Mr. Gerson Nordlinger, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Jack R. Norwood

Mrs. Elizabeth A. Notheis

Mr. and Mrs. Philip E. Nuttle

Mr. Robert O’Brien

Mr. Thomas O’Brien

Mr. Thomas O’Hare

Capt. and Mrs. E. O’Shaughnessy

Mrs. John B. Ogilvie

Mrs. Leo R. Oliver

Miss Yvonne Olvesky

Mr. Cyrus Omidyar

Mr. Kenneth B. Osmun

Mr. and Mrs. Mandell J. Ourisman

Mr. G. P. Pancer

Miss Blanche Parseghian

The Honorable and Mrs. Jefferson
Patterson

Miss Ruth Uppercu Paul

Mr. and Mrs. Chester Paulson

Prof. Norman Holmes Pearson

Mr. Louis Peller

Mr. George Perez

Miss Eleanor L. Perry

Mr. and Mrs. H. M. Peterson

Mr. and Mrs. Donald A. Petrie

Mrs. Charles Emory Phillips

Mr. Rae H. Pickrel

Mr. James W. Pipher

Col. Robert W. Poel

Mr. and Mrs. J. F. Porter, Jr.

Miss Katherine Anne Porter

Mr. and Mrs. A. M. Prado

Dr. and Mrs. Jerold Principato

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Propst

Mrs. Dow Puckett

Dr. Dennis Quitner

Miss Elsie Howland Quinby

Mrs. J. R. Rael

Dr. and Mrs. Ernest Rafey

Mr. and Mrs. Mark Ragel

Miss Mary E. Rall

Mr. and Mrs. Ray Randlett

Miss Margaret Rathbone

Ms Isabel M. Rea

Mrs. C. Story Reed

Miss Jean Rentoul

Mr. G. Edward Reynolds

Mr. and Mrs. Sargent M. Reynolds

Mrs. Robert B. Rheault

Mr. Don Rhodes

Mrs. Patricia C. Rice

Mr. Pat Ridge

Miss Anna C. Ridley

Mr. James H. Ripley

Mrs. Alice E. Rivard

Mrs. Katherine Robbins

Mrs. David Roberts, III

Mr. and Mrs. Eugene B. Roberts

Mr. Donald Robinson

Mrs. Elizabeth Robinson

Mr. Hamilton Robinson

Mr. and Mrs. Daniel Rogers

Miss Elaine Rogers

Mr. and Mrs. John L. Rogers

Mrs. Charlotte B. Rose

Mr. David E. Rust

Mrs. Katherine Rust

Mr. and Mrs. William R. Salomon

Mrs. William B. Sanders

Miss Alice D. Saunders

Miss Joan Lynn Savereno

Mr. Thorndike Saville

Mr. Michael F. Sawyer

Dr. Basil A. Schiff

Mr. and Mrs. Jacques J. Schoch

Miss Greta Schuessler

Mr. and Mrs. Orville C. Schumacher

Mr. Lloyd E. Schuster

Mr. and Mrs. C. W. Scott

Mr. and Mrs. Roderic M. Scott

Mrs. Marion J. Scull

Miss Carolynne Seeman

Mr. and Mrs. Gene F. Seevers

Mr. James G. Shakman

Mr. and Mrs. Donald W. Shaw

Mr. and Mrs. George E. Sherman

Mrs. James Sinkler

Mr. and Mrs. L. T. Sloane

Mr. and Mrs. Frank Smith

Mr. and Mrs. William D. Snider

Mr. Edward W. Spears

Mr. and Mrs. Robert J. Stanton

Mr. and Mrs. Robert B. Stephens

Mr. and Mrs. Harry N. Stevens

Dr. and Mrs. T. Dale Steward

Mr. Curtis H. Stout

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas A. Sulkie

Cdr. Edward J. Sullivan

Mrs. Arthur H. Sulzberger

Mrs. Edward C. Sweeney

Mrs. Martha Frick Symington

Mr. and Mrs. Alfred E. Tarr

Mrs. Don Tavenner

Miss Jean Terlinden

Miss Margaret E. Tennis

The Alice Thomas Charitable
Foundation

Mrs. Anthony Thomas

Mr. Joseph A. Thomas

Mr. and Mrs. Lowell E. Thompson

Mr. and Mrs. Raymond Thornburg

Mr. and Mrs. Dela C. Tifft

Appendix 12. Smithsonian Associates / 507
Donor Members ($100 and up)—Cont.

Mrs. Arthur M. Tode

Mr. and Mrs. George F. Totten
Mr. and Mrs. David G. Townsend
The Truland Foundation

United Steelworkers of America
Mr. J. M. Venditti

Mrs. Elizabeth Walsh

Mrs. Harry Wanger

Mr. Michael J. Ward

Mrs. L. Wattenberg

Mr. James E. Webb

Mr. and Mrs. William S. Weedon
Mrs. James C. Weir

Dr. and Mrs. William C. Weir
Miss Doris M. Weldon

Mr. Fred Wellborn

Mr. Stanley Westreich

Miss Francis E. Whitehead

Mr. James L. Whitehead

Mrs. Fanny B. Whitlow

Mrs. Percey D. Will

Mr. and Mrs. Robert A. Williams

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas J. C. Williams

Mrs. David Wilstein

Mrs. David Ross Winans

Ms Jo Winkler

Mrs. Mark Winkler

Mr. and Mrs. Curtin Winsor, Jr.
Ms Deborah Wolfe

Ms Karen Woll

Miss Carol Wollner

Mr. and Mrs. Herman Wouk
Mr. and Mrs. Isaiah Zimmerman

SUPPORTING MEMBERS ($50 and up)

Mr. A. Gordon Adams

Mrs. Ann Duncan Adams
Mr. Robert R. Aitken

Miss Mary Alexander

Mr. and Mrs. Stanley Allan
Mr. and Mrs. David Anderson
Mr. James G. Anderson

Mr. Arthur Ansley

Mr. and Mrs. M. B. Antrim
Mr. and Mrs. Rudolph Arkin
Mr. and Mrs. E. R. Atkinson
Miss Evelyn A. Azarchi

Mrs. Carol P. Banks

Mr. Jeffrey O. Barnes

Mr. Harry C. Bauer

Mr. and Mrs. Martin E. Bayol
Mr. William Becker

Mrs. D. R. Beggs

Mr. and Mrs. James Bellows
Dr. Jeffrey Berenberg

Mr. George E. Berg

Mr. and Mrs. James H. Berkey
Mrs. Suzanna Bershad

Mr. Paul B. Billing

Dr. and Mrs. James F. Bing
Mr. Richard Lee Birchler

Mr. Robert O. Blake

Mrs. Anthony F. Banks

Mr. Frank Bliss, Jr.

Mr. Donn W. Block

The Honorable Frances P. Bolton
Mr. and Mrs. Philip Bonsal
Mr. Warwick P. Bonsal, Jr.
Mr. Arthur S. Boraca

Mrs. Eugenia Rowe Bradford

508 / Smithsonian Year 1975

Mr. Raymond A. Brady

Dr. William L. Brannon

Ms Jane Braucher

Mr. James C. Bray

Mr. Robert Breed

Mr. and Mrs. Andrew Brown

Col. Richard Brown

Mr. and Mrs. Harold Brown

Mr. Donald Bruckman

Mr. and Mrs. Percival F. Brundage

Mr. and Mrs. Frederick B. Bryant

Mr. and Mrs. Edward P. Bullock

Mr. I. Townsend Burden

Mr. and Mrs. James M. Burger

Mr. and Mrs. Richard E. Burke, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Donald Burklew

Ms Dorothy S. Byrd

Mrs. Henry A. Caesar, II

Mr. Carter Cafritz

Mr. and Mrs. Edwin Callahan

Mr. and Mrs. Robert M. Calland

Mr. and Mrs. B. Cameron, Jr.

Mr. Philip L. Carret

Mr. and Mrs. Leo A. Carten

Mr. and Mrs. Douglas H. Carter

Mr. and Mrs. Frank Cary

Mr. and Mrs. Edmund L. Castillo

Mr. Sebastino J. Castro

The Honorable and Mrs. Henry E.
Catto, Jr. ‘

Ms Carmel Rose Cavanaugh

Mr. C. M. Chabrel

Mr. Dexter K. Cheney

Mr. Dennis Chiocco

Mr. Bertram M. Cohen
Mr. Edward J. Cohen

Mr. Robert M. Comly

Mrs. Ethel Conlisk

Mr. William J. Cooper

Mr. and Mrs. J. A. Corbet

Mrs. Mildred S. Corrigan

Ms Patricia D. W. Counts

Miss Mary L. Cox

Mrs. W. C. Cox

Ms Patricia E. Coyle

Mr. David M. Crabtree

Col. S. L. Crook

Ms Linda Cooper Crow

Mrs. M. Crowley

Mr. Carl R. Cubas

Mr. and Mrs. William B. Culver
Mrs. Chester Dale

Ms Winifred B. Dana

Ms Marie B. Debacker

Capt. and Mrs. Victor Delano
Mr. Vinel E. Dent

Mrs. A. Deptula

Mr. Dewitt Wallace

Miss Patricia Anne Dick

Ms Mary Kay Dilli

Mr. R. Samuel Dillon

Mr. and Mrs. Ewen C. Dingwall
Mrs. Maren L. Donohue

Mr. Alden Lowell Doud

Mr. Wilson Draughon

Mr. and Mrs. Kenneth Drummond
Mr. and Mrs. Donald A. Duffy
Mr. and Mrs. H. Steward Dunn, Jr.
Mr. Philip A. Desault

Mr. and Mrs. Robert B. Eichholz
Mr. Rey Eilers

Miss Lynette F. Eltinge

Mr. and Mrs. Pleasanton H. Ennis
Mrs. Lionel C. Epstein

Mrs. Philip H. Erbes

Mr. Stephen John Evans

Mr. Timothy Evans

Mr. and Mrs. James G. Evans, Jr.
Mr. W. Harry Feinstone

Mr. and Mrs. Irving Feist

Col. and Mrs. J. J. Felmley

Mr. and Mrs. L. Boyd Finch

Dr. and Mrs. A. L. Fjordbotten
Mr. J. Fleischman

Mrs. Julius Fleischmann

Mrs. Ruth Flubacher

Miss Helen E. Forshier

Mr. John H. Foster

Mr. and Mrs. A. P. Francis

Dr. Donald E. Frein

Mr. Bart Friedman

Mr. and Mrs. Don C. Froy

Mr. and Mrs. William Gaede

Mr. Joseph P. Garvey

Mr. Barry K. Gibson

Mr. and Mrs. William C. Gilbert
Dr. and Mrs. Roy S. Gillinson
Mr. Reid A. Gills, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Max Glass

Dr. and Mrs. Jerome N. Goldman
Mr. and Mrs. William Goshorn
Mr. Moses J. Gozonsky

Mr. and Mrs. Gary D. Graham
Mr. and Mrs. John Gratten

Dr. and Mrs. Frank D. Gray, Jr.
Dr. and Mrs. Louis Greenberg
Ms Estelle M. Greenhill

Dr. and Mrs. James B. Gregory
Miss Jeanne Griest

Ms Margaret Groben

Miss Virginia H. Groomes

Dr. and Mrs. C. D. Groover

Mr. and Mrs. Hans Gunzenhauser
Mr. and Mrs. Alvin Guttag

Mr. and Mrs. Richard H. Hagemeyer
Miss Marion S. Halsey

Dr. and Mrs. William F. Hamilton
Mrs. G. F. Hammond

Miss Eileen M. Hardy

Mr. Irving B. Harris

Dr. James C. Harris

Mr. and Mrs. Allen Harrison, Jr.
Mr. Philip H. Haselton

Mr. Warren W. Hastings

Mr. George A. Hatzes, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Glenn Hawthorne
Mr. Ronald E. Haydanek

Mr. and Mrs. Marvin D. Heaps
Mrs. Ernest L. Heimann

Mr. and Mrs. Ralph D. Helwig
Mr. Robert A. Hicks

Mr. and Mrs. Blair Higginbotham
Mr. Alan Hill

Mrs. Marion Hill

Mrs. Edward L. Hiller

Ssg. Charles H. Himman

Miss Marion Elizabeth Hines
Mr. William M. Hines

Mrs. J. H. Ward Hinkson

Mr. and Mrs. David E. Hoard
Mr. Roberts E. Hofsas

Mr. and Mrs. John B. Holden
Mr. Roger E. Holtman

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph F. Horning, Jr.
Mr. Arthur Horst

Mr. Michael P. E. Hoyt

Mrs. Henry H. Hoyt

Appendix 12. Smithsonian Associates / 509
Supporting Members ($50 and up)—Cont.

Mr. John Baird Hudson

Mr. and Mrs. James H. Hughes
Mr. and Mrs. Nicholas D. P. Hughes
Mr. and Mrs. James D. Hurd
Mr. and Mrs. James M. Idema
Mrs. James P. Ince

Dr. Glenn James

Mr. David B. Jenkins

Mr. and Mrs. W.N. Jersin

Mr. and Mrs. David D. Johnson
Dr. Donald A. Johnson

Mr. and Mrs. Irwin B. Johnson
Col. and Mrs. F. M. Johnson, Jr.
Mr. Mitchell F. Jones, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Michael Joseph
Mr. and Mrs. Albert H. Jung

Mr. John M. Kalbermatten

Mr. James B. Karickhoff

Mr. Earl W. Keegan

Mrs. George C. Keiser

Mr. S. D. Kelly

Mr. W. John Kenney

Mrs. Marie Kent

Mr. Thomas M. Kent

Dr. Harold King

Ms Viola R. King

Mr. Joseph L. Kirk

Mrs. Charles Z. Klauder

Mr. and Mrs. J. K. Knee

Mr. Bogumil Kosciesza

Mr. Michael Kraft

Mr. and Mrs. R. L. Kranker

Dr. and Mrs. Wolfgang H. Kraus
Mr. R. P. Kressley

Miss Victoria Krusiewski

Mr. John Lanchak

Mr. John T. Lawrence

Col. and Mrs. Randlett Lawrence
Miss Gertrude Leach

Mr. and Mrs. Richard M. Lederer, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Ernest E. Lewis
Miss Jane T. Lingo

Mr. and Mrs. Sol Linowitz

Dr. Kathleen E. Lloyd

Ms Ursula G. Lohmann

Mr. and Mrs. Stephen Low

Mr. and Mrs. William Lowenthal
Mr. Harry Lunn

Mr. and Mrs. R. S. Lusk, Jr.

Mr. Frank R. Lyons, Jr.

Mrs. J. Noel Macy

Mrs. James T. Magee

Mrs. Isabel C. Mahaffie

Mr. and Mrs. Paul Mannes

Maj. and Mrs. George S. Mansfield

510 / Smithsonian Year 1975

Mr. Charles L. Marks

Mr. and Mrs. Leonard Marks
Mr. Richard Heeman Marshall
Mrs. Elizabeth Martin

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Masson
Mr. Robert F. Maxwell

Dr. and Mrs. Francis Mayle, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph S. Mazza
Mr. Bolton McBryde

Capt. and Mrs. Charles McCall
Dr. and Mrs. Martin E. McCavitt
Mr. and Mrs. John P. McCullough
Mr. Allan R. McDonald

Mr. Charles Vinson McDonald
Mr. Thomas McDowell

Mr. and Mrs. J. W. McEachren
Mr. Harley E. McMillian

Mr. Edward J. McNally

Mrs. Dorothy B. Melville

Mrs. R. B. Menapace

Mr. and Mrs. Louis W. Mendonsa
Mr. and Mrs. Norman J. Merksamer
Mrs. Ida C. Merriam

Mr. David Messent

Mrs. Fred Metzger

Dr. and Mrs. David B. Michaels
Mr. and Mrs. G. R. Milford

Mr. Ernest Mitchell

Mr. John Molleson

Mrs. E. P. Moore

Mr. and Mrs. Leonard Moretz
Dr. and Mrs. James I. Moulthrop
Mr. and Mrs. James H. Muncy

. Burnaby Munson

. and Mrs. James Murphy

. John F. Murphy

. and Mrs. Edmund Murray

. Thomas W. Nawn

. Bruce H. Nelson

. Fred M. Nelson

. and Mrs. Robert E. Newby
Mrs. F. C. Noble

Mr. and Mrs. Carl F. Norden
Mr. David P. Notley

Mrs. John B. Ogilvie

Mr. Thomas O’Hare

Mrs. Leo R. Oliver

Mr. Brian O'Neill

Capt. and Mrs. E. O’Shaughnessy
Mr. Kenneth B. Osmun

Mr. and Mrs. David J. R. Pales
Cdr. Everett A. Parke, USN

Mrs. Alice Mengel Parker

Ms Patricia C. Patch

Mr. and Mrs. Harry A. Paynter
Mr. Raymond Pearlstine
Mrs. G. Burton Pearson
Mr. C. Wesley Peebles, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Arthur W. Pence, Jr.

Mr. Edmund Pendelton

Ms Jo Perrill

Mr. Tucker W. Peterson

Brig. Gen. Edwin R. Petzing
Mr. and Mrs. John Pfeifer
Capt. and Mrs. Charles Phillips
Mrs. Frank S. Phillips

Mr. Joseph B. Phillips

Mrs. Ogden Phipps

Mr. and Mrs. Robert D. Pierce
Mr. Alwin Plant

Miss Karyn Plevy

Mr. W. Sutton Potter

Mrs. James A. Powell

Mr. Douglas S. Price

Dr. and Mrs. Jorold Principato
Mr. William R. Probst

Mrs. J. R. Rael

Mr. and Mrs. Ray Randlett

Mr. and Mrs. Eugene L. Reagan
Dr. Michael J. Reilly

Mr. and Mrs. David G. Reiser
Mr. and Mrs. Seymour Reitman
Mr. John Arthur Reynolds

Mr. John P. Rhodes

Mr. Joseph A. Rice

Mr. and Mrs. Walter E. Richards
Dr. John M. Richardson

Mr. and Mrs. Eugene Henry Rietzke

Mr. and Mrs. Maxwell B. Roberts
Mr. and Mrs. F. L. Robertson
Mr. Glenn E. Robinson

Dr. and Mrs. David Rockoff
Mr. John F. Rolph, III

Mr. and Mrs. Milton E. Rose
Mr. Newell W. Rossman, Jr.
Mr. Robert J. Rovang

Mr. Gilbert Rubloff

Mr. and Mrs. Roy R. Russo
Mrs. John Barry Ryan

Mr. and Mrs. Hachemi Saada
Dr. and Mrs. Abner Sachs
Dr. and Mrs. David L. Salmon
Mr. R. R. Santarossa

Mr. and Mrs. David Sapadin
Mr. S. M. Saul

Mr. B. Francis Saul, II

Mrs. Francis B. Sayre, Jr.

Ms Penelope L. Schleifer

Ms Barbara Schlindwein

Mr. and Mrs. C. W. Scott
Mr. John C. Sebastian

Appendix 12. Smithsonian Associates / 511

Mr. and Mrs. Gene F. Seevers
Mr. J. J. Selfridge

Mr. Dan E. Shackelford

Mr. G. William Shea

Mr. Peter L. Sheldon

Mrs. Bernice Sherwin

Mr. Bernard W. Shwayder

Mr. Jack Silberman

Mr. Kenneth M. Simpson

Mrs. E. Sullivan Slack

Mr. Slavin Sanford

Col. and Mrs. C. Haskell Small
Mr. and Mrs. Joe Pitts Smith
Mrs. Lawrence M. C. Smith
Mr. J. Morse Smith

Mrs. Myron B. Smith

Ms Shirley A. Smith

Mr. Bradley Smith

Mr. and Mrs. Saul Snyder

Mr. Robert W. Snyder

Mr. Brian Richard Somers

Mr. William L. Sparks

Mr. Michael A. Sprung

Mr. Raymond F. Staples

Col. Harcourt M. Stebbins

Mr. A. S. J. Stephens

Mrs. Tegner M. Stokes

Mr. and Mrs. Richard L. Sugarman
Mr. Charles A. Suter

Mr. David A. Sutherlund

Mr. and Mrs. John R. Sutter
Mrs. Mary Davidson Swift

Ms Linda Teixeira

Mrs. Eleanor Teneberg

Mrs. Paul A. Tessier

Mr. Joseph M. Tessmer

Mr. and Mrs. Robert C. Tetro
Mr. and Mrs. Gary E. Thompson
Mr. and Mrs. Brian Thomson
Mr. and Mrs. Frank B. Thompson
Mr. and Mrs. B. W. Thoron
Mr. and Mrs. Sylvan M. Tobin
Mrs. Stirling Tomkins

Mr. John E. Toole

Mrs. Franco Toso

Mr. Thomas T. Traywick, Sr.
Mr. and Mrs. A. Buel Trowbridge
Mr. John H. Turner

Mr. and Mrs. George E. Tuttle
Ms Judith Falk Unger

Mr. and Mrs. Theo Van Hemert
Dr. and Mrs. Philip Varner
Mr. Michael R. Vaughan

Mr. Charles H. Vial

Mr. Wallace Voight

Mr. Leopold O. Walder
Supporting Members ($50 and up)—Cont.

Dr. Jeremy P. Waletzky

Dr. and Mrs. Edmund Walsh

Dr. and Mrs. Henry P. Ward

Mr. and Mrs. Arnold Watson

Dr. and Mrs. Robert B. Watson
Mr. Ridley Watts

Dr. Hamilton B. Webb

Mr. Norman Weiden

Ms Ruth Weiland

Mr. Ernest G. Weiss

Mr. Nicholas Westholter

Dr. R. A. Weyhrauch

Mr. and Mrs. William B. Wharton
Mrs. Edwin M. Wheeler

Mr. and Mrs. Dallas R. Wicker
Mr. and Mrs. Warren W. Wiggins

LIFE MEMBERSHIPS

Dr. Edwin Lincoln Wildner
Mr. and Mrs. Gordon Wiley
Mr. Robert Wilhelm

Mrs. Richard E. Wilkie

Mr. and Mrs. Luke W. Wilson
Mrs. Flora Jane Winton

Capt. and Mrs. Peyton R. Wise
Mrs. Saralyn V. Wolff

Mr. David L. Wood

Mr. and Mrs. George E. Woodin
Mrs. Frank L. Wright

Mr. Christopher B. Wry, Jr.
Mr. Aubrey E. Wylie

Mrs. Leslie H. Wyman

Mr. Thomas O. Ziebold

The Institution gratefully acknowledges the generosity and enthusiasm of the
following individuals who became Life Members during the years 1965 through
1971, when life memberships in Smithsonian Associates were available.

FOUNDER MEMBERS ($1000 and up)

Mr. Irwin Belk

The Honorable and Mrs.
David K. E. Bruce

Mrs. Morris Cafritz

The Honorable Douglas Dillon

Mr. Charles E. Eckles

The Honorable and Mrs.
John Clifford Folger
Mr. Cornelius Van S. Roosevelt
Mr. Thomas J. Watson, Jr.
Mr. P. A. B. Widener
Mr. and Mrs. Sidney S. Zlotnick

SUSTAINING MEMBERS ($500 and up)

Mrs. Anna Bing Arnold

Mrs. Theodore Babbitt

Mr. Joel Barlow

Mr. and Mrs. Richard Barnes

Mr. William R. Biggs

Mr. George A. Binney

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph D. Blatt

Miss Fay Boyle

Mrs. L. Roosevelt Bramwell

Mr. A. Marvin Braverman

Mr. and Mrs. John Nicholas Brown

Mr. Bertram F. Brummer

Mrs. Leon Campbell, Jr.

Mrs. Leonard Carmichael

Dr. Rita Chow

Clarke and Rapuano Foundation
(Mr. Gilmore D. Clarke)

Mrs. Frances A. Davila

Mr. Newell W. Ellison

512 / Smithsonian Year 1975

Mr. and Mrs. Alfred U. Elser, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Richard S. Friedman
Mr. Richard F. Fuller

Mr. and Mrs. Hy Garfinkel

Mr. George A. Garret

Mr. Carl S. Gewirz

Mr. and Mrs. Crawford Greenewalt
Mr. and Mrs. Gilbert C. Greenway
Mr. William H. Greer, Jr.

Mr. Melville B. Grosvenor

Mr. and Mrs. Homer Gudelsky
Mr. Gilbert Hahn

Mr. Laurence Harrison

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Hirshhorn
Mr. and Mrs. Christian Hohenlohe
Mr. Philip Johnson

Miss Brenda Kuhn

Mr. Harold F. Linder

Colonel and Mrs. Leon Mandel
Mr. and Mrs. J. Willard Marriott

The Honorable William McC.
Martin, Jr.

Lieutenant Commander and Mrs.
P. J. Maveety

Mr. and Mrs. Paul Mellon

Miss Katherine A. A. Murphy

Neuberger Foundation Incorporated
(Roy R. and Marie S. Neuberger)

Duke of Northumberland

Dr. and Mrs. Melvin M. Payne

Miss Lucy M. Pollio

Mr. and Mrs. Peter Powers

Miss Elsie Howland Quinby

Dr. and Mrs. S. Dillon Ripley

NATIONAL BOARD

This body was created in October 1971 to assist the Institution in the pursuit
of certain of its aims for the decade of the 1970s, particularly in the develop-
ment of its relations with industry. While the Institution hopes to advance its
goals in public education and environmental studies through increased private
support, it seeks, in turn, to serve the educational and community interests of
its Corporate Members. We are grateful for the energy and concern shown by

the members of the Board.

Mr. Lewis A. Lapham, Chairman
Robert L. Anderson

Mr. Harry Hood Bassett
Mr. Richard P. Cooley

Mr. Joseph F. Cullman 3rd
Mr. Harry B. Cunningham
Mr. Paul L. Davies

Mr. Leonard K. Firestone
Mr. Charles T. Fisher III
Mr. G. Keith Funston

Mr. Alfred C. Glassell, Jr.
Mrs. David L. Guyer

Mr. Henry J. Heinz II

Appendix 12. Smithsonian Associates / 513

Mr. and Mrs. Seymour J. Rubin
Mr. H. C. Seherr-Thoss

Mrs. Jouett Shouse

Dr. and Mrs. Carl Swan Shultz
Mr. and Mrs. Robert H. Smith
Mr. Robert T. Smith

Miss Sally Sweetland

Mr. and Mrs. Bertrand L. Taylor III
Mrs. Clark W. Thompson

Mrs. Carl Tucker

Mr. Alexander O. Vietor

Mr. and Mrs. John W. Warner
Dr. Alexander Westmore

Mr. and Mrs. W. Bradley Willard
Mrs. Rose Saul Zalles

Mr. William A. Hewitt
John N. Irwin II

Mr. Frank Y. Larkin

The Honorable George C. McGhee
Mrs. Robert S. McNamara
Dr. Ruben F. Mettler

Mr. Charles M. Pigott
Mrs. Malcolm Price

Mr. Francis C. Rooney, Jr.
Mr. Merritt K. Ruddock
Mr. Thomas J. Watson, Jr.
Mr. James O. Wright
APPENDIX 13. List of Donors to the Smithsonian Institution in
Fiscal Year 1975

The Board of Regents and the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution
join with the entire staff in thanking all of the Institution’s friends for
their generous financial support and for their gifts to the collections. If
perchance the name of any donor has been omitted from the following
list, it is an inadvertence and in no way diminishes the Institution’s
gratitude. Many gifts were received from donors who prefer to remain
anonymous; the Smithsonian wishes to thank them for their generosity.

OFFICE OF THE SEGRETARY

SPECIAL PROJECTS

Donors to the Furnishings Collection

Bruce, The Honorable David K.E., Brussels, Belgium: English sideboard.

Caldwell, Mrs. Gibson L., Wheeling, West Virginia: two Italian lace
tablecloths.

Feldman, Joseph G., Philadelphia, Pennsylvania: Empire fall-front desk.

Foote, Dr. William D., Chevy Chase, Maryland: glass chandelier.

Ford, Mrs. Frederick, Alexandria, Virginia: plaster bust of George Washington
after Houdon.

Kerr, Mrs. John Morrison, Washington, D.C.: Eastlake secretary.

McClellan, Miss Blanche, Mexico City, Mexico: mantle mirror.

Prescott, Mr. and Mrs. John S., Jr., Washington, D.C.: Rococo Revival sofa.

Tillett, James, St. Thomas, Virgin Islands: silkscreen print.

Wang Chi-Yuan, New York, New York: Oriental scroll painting.

Weppner, Mrs. Robert A., Checy Chase, Maryland (from estate of Mrs. Ava
Maguire): pair Renaissance Revival side tables, Renaissance Revival
table, bronze bust of Abraham Lincoln by Gutzon Borglum, pedestal
desk, two brass table lamps, Empire sofa, Lincoln-style rocker.

SCIENCE

CENTER FOR THE STUDY OF MAN, NATIONAL
ANTHROPOLOGICAL FILM CENTER

Donors of Financial Support

Institute for Intercultural Studies: $6,000 for the development of the National
Anthropological Film Center.

National Endowment for the Humanities: (a) $91,724 for first-year support
of a Film Center to serve as a research resource for humanistic scholarship.
(b) $72,788 in support of A Film Record of the Pashtoon People of
Afghanistan.

514 / Smithsonian Year 1975
National Geographic Society: $17,714 in support of A Research Film Study
of Traditional Cook Island Polynesian Dance.
National Institutes of Health: $103,725 to initiate the National Anthropological
Film Center.
Marshall, Mr. Laurence K.: $3,000 in support of a project to obtain
annotation of film footage of the !Kung Bushmen by the subjects of the film.
Waletzky, Dr. and Mrs. Jeremy P.: $15,142.75 for the development of the
National Anthropological Film Center.
WGBH Public Broadcasting, Boston: $5,000 in support of A Film Record
of the Pashtoon People of Afghanistan.

Donors to the Collections
FILM DEPOSITS

American Universities Field Staff: 84,800 feet of research film prints from
its Afghanistan and Bolivian film projects, and later accessioning rights to
some 42,000 feet from its Kenya, China Coast, and Taiwan projects.

‘National Institutes of Health: Approximately 75,000 feet of film from research
projects by Dr. Sorenson in New Guinea, the Western Caroline Islands
and Micronesia, the New Hebrides, and Mexico. Approximately 40,000
feet of film on traditional Melanesian cultural survivals in the New
Hebrides taken by Dr. Kal Muller.

Muller, Dr. Kal: 42,000 feet of research film on naturally occurring human
behavior in relation to cultural organization among the Huichol Indians
of Mexico.

FILMS OFFERED FOR ACCESSIONING

Some 750,000 feet of research film footage from:

Timothy Asch’s film on the Yanomamo Indians of southern Venezuela

David MacDougall’s film footage on the Turkana, Jie, and Boran tribes
in Kenya

John K. Marshall’s footage on the !Kung Bushmen of South Africa

Margaret Mead’s films from expeditions to New Guinea and Bali

NATIONAL AIR AND SPACE MUSEUM

Donors to the Collections

Brooks, Miss Kathleen: Air navigation instruments.

Burden, Mr. William A. M.: Eighteenth-century French furniture, china,
and objets d’art with balloon motif.

Calvins, Dr. C. S.: Strut from crashed Lindbergh DH-4.

Connecticut, University of: Gnome rotary engine (Model N). Doolittle, Lt.
Gen. J. H.: Tokyo Raid, painting by Ferris; Wings of Man Trophy;
bomb fragment from the Tokyo raid; “Footprints on the Sands of
Time” Medal.

Lipman, Mr. Eric M.: World War II German insignia and documents.

Machado, Mrs. Anesia Panheiro: Sculpture of Alberto Santos-Dumont.

McCray, Mrs. Helen: Schweizer 2-22 Sailplane.

McGregor, Mr. Robert G.: We at Daybreak, painting by Pfister.

Planes of Fame (Ed Malony): Consolidated B-24 nose section.

Rickenbacker, Estate of Captain Edward (through Marguerite Shepard) :
Drawings and photographs.

Seversky, Estate of Major Alexander P. de (through Mrs. Mary E. Bourne,
executrix) : Memorabilia, paintings, photos, and books.

United States Navy: Sikorsky UH-34C (Helicopter); Douglas A4C
(Attack Plane).

Appendix 13. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 515
Uruguay, Air Force and Navy of (through U.S. Air Attaché): Uruguayan
wings and insignia.

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY

Donors of Financial Support

Miss Dorothy Ambrose Miss Juliet C. Diller
American Ornithologists’ Union Mrs. Margaret Kellogg
Anonymous National Capitol Shell Club
Miss Helen Bissell National Geographic Society
The Bromeliad Society Dr. Dan H. Nicolson

Mrs. David Craven The Raymond John Wean Foundation
Dr. William Crocker Miss Caroline H. Stewart
Fieldcrest Mills, Inc. Sumner Gerard Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. Rudolph F. Greiser Surdna Foundation, Inc.

Dr. Herman J. Viola Miss Marion D. Tolbert

Mr. Howard Hruschka World Health Organization

Mrs. Irene Morden

|
Donors to the National Collections |
INDIVIDUALS |

|

Abbott, Mrs. Robert O., Jr., and Downs, Mrs. Frederick R., Jr.: black opal
and gold lavaliere (310942).

Ainley, Dr. David G.: 20 bird skeletons (315585, exchange).

Akingbohungbe, Dr. A.: 2 plant bugs (313321).

Alcorn, Mr. and Mrs. Keith: 1 magnetite (313074).

Alkire, William H.: 2 basketry pouches, Micronesia (313316).

Allyn, Arthur: 31,282 moths, Mexico (315240).

Anderson, Dr. N. H.: 1 caddisfly, Oregon (312709).

Andersson, Dr. Hugo: 2 flies, Iceland (313693).

Armonia, Mrs. Patricia Liu: 19 women’s garments, China (313317).

Arrowood, G. T.: 1 huntite, Oregon (313976).

Arrowood, Ted: 1 garnierite, Oregon (312892).

Ash, Dr. Sidney R.: 16 paleobotanical slide preparations, Arizona (312710).

Averell, James L.: 1 burden basket, Yurok Indian (313318).

Bacon, Mrs. Eva D. (see Dingman, Johnson).

Bacon, Dr. Peter R.: 14 polychaetes, West Indies (310924).

Baker, Dr. Alan N.: 1 echinoderm, New Zealand (312347).

Baker, James H.: 336 butterflies, 532 flies (311700, 313683) ; 65 caddisflies
57 moths (315092, 315232).

Baker, Dr. P. G.: 88 fossil brachiopods (310919, 312350).

Balk, Dr. Christina L.: 59 trilobites, Missouri (311271).

Ball, Dr. George E.: 117 centipedes (314056, 315239) ; 39 ground beetles
(315219, 316270, 316285).

Balsbaugh, Dr. E. U.: 2 beetles, North America (311990).

Baranowski, Dr. Richard M.: 2 squash bugs (316308).

Barker, Mrs. Pat: 16 minerals, Germany (311952).

Barnard, Dr. J. L.; Dawson, Y. E.; and California, University of: 14,273
crustaceans (260778).

Barnett, Dr. Douglas E.: 137 cicadas, Kentucky (312018).

Barr, Dr. Thomas C., Jr.: 155 ground beetles (316291).

Barr, Dr. W. F.: 80 beetles (314058, 316558).

Bartsch, Dr. Paul: 1 basketry container, China (316039).

Bass, Benjamin W.: 2 minerals, Georgia (309790, 310473, exchanges).

Bass, Mr. and Mrs. Benjamin W.: 7 minerals (310442).

516 / Smithsonian Year 1975
Bates, Robert: 4 minerals (311039).

Batham, Dr. E. J.: 27 echinoderms, New Zealand (303618).

Baum, John L.: 1 bustamite, New Jersey (311351).

Baumann, Dr. Richard W.: 167 stoneflies (312680) ; 12,659 insects and
arthropods (311356, 315102); 30 crustaceans (315954).

Beatty, Harry A.: 2 crustaceans, Martinique (312220).

Beck, Dr. William M., Jr.: 5 stoneflies (313330).

Bedette, Barbara A. and Blow, Warren C.: 1 lignitized cone, Virginia (315728).

Behre, Dr. Eleanor H.: 3 crustaceans, North Carolina (315759).

Belitsky, Dr. I. A.: 13 minerals, USSR (310989, exchange).

Benitt, Ted: 1 tennantite, Africa (315520).

Benson, Dr. Richard H.: 27 fossil ostracod slides (315516, 315950).

Berndt, Douglas J.: 2 minerals, North Carolina (311385).

Bernhardt, John: 1 beetle, North America (312707).

Beshear, Ramona J.: 3 lace bugs (311977, 313338).

Beston, George L.: 1 goethite nodule, Washington, D. C. (312897).

Betram, Dr. J. G.: 9 wasps, Orient (311926).

Biggart, Norman: 16 minerals, Massachusetts (311415).

Bischoff, Dr. James L.: 200 vials Red Sea sediments (308865, exchange).

Blake, Mrs. Doris H.: 34 mammal skins, 216 bird skins, 354 egg clutches
(311207).

Blanchard, Andre: 1,241 moths, Texas (311999, 313685, 315236).

Blass, Herrn Alfred: 44 plants, South America (314946).

Blow, Warren C. (see Bedette, Barbara A.).

Bohart, Dr. R. M.: 9 wasps, U.S.A. (312024).

Boucot, Dr. Arthur J.: 26, 068 brachiopods, Nova Scotia (313880).

Bowers, Dr. C. D.: 72 cicadas, North America (312027).

Bowman, Dr. T. E.: 130+ crustaceans, Maine (312592).

Bradley, Mrs. Louise A.: 6 schorl crystals, Virginia (315668).

Brewer, George: 56 minerals (310987, 311935, 312759, 314044).

Bridge, David: 27 bird skins, 40 bird skeletons, North America (313699).

Brinck, Dr. Per: 3 scoliidae, Sri Lanka (311216).

Brindle, Dr. A.: 2 earwigs (316284).

Britton, Dr. Joseph C.: 8 freshwater mollusks, Texas (310859).

Brivio, Dr. Carlo: 2 scarab beetles, Michigan (316309).

Brooks, Dr. Harold K. (see Collins, R. Lee).

Brown, Clair A.: 15 plants, Louisiana (312836).

Brown, Gregory: 2 painted barkcloths, Brazil (316303).

Brown, Dr. W. L., Jr.: 59 insects (316318).

Brown, Walter C.: 3 geckos (315708).

Brownell, Dr. Robert, Jr.: 8 marine mammals (316564).

Brumbach, William C.: 277 plants, Florida (305525, 308663, 309237).

Bugbee, Dr. R. E.: 66 chalcid flies, North America (312007).

Buell, William C., IV: 1 obsidian, Italy (311780).

Bulmer, Dr. Walter: 33 frogs, lizards, and snakes (303425).

Burggraf, Ingeborg: 47 minerals, New England (311417).

Burke, Dr. Horace: 1 weevil (315225).

Butler, Tomiko: 1 diopside, 2 epidote (314337).

Butterworth, Mrs. Jean: 85 minerals, New England (311432).

Cabri, Dr. Louis J.: 1 tulameenite (311041); 1 stillwaterite (313975).

Caldwell, Dr. R. F.: 1 moth, New York (316548).

Caldwell, Dr. Roy L. and Dingle, Dr. Hugh: 9 marine mollusks, Thailand
(314784).

Campbell, Dr. Howard W.: 4 lizards, West Indies (311043).

Capriles, Dr. J. Maldonado: 8 true bugs (315093).

Cares, Steven: 1 nepheline, Canada (315021).

Appendix 13. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 517
Carlson, Paul H.: 537 stoneflies (312015, 313329, 314053).

Carpenter, Michael: 2 crayfish, West Virginia (313247).

Causey, Dr. Nell B.: 3 millipedes, North America (311994).

Cebula, Albert: 12 magnetite crystals, New Hampshire (313745).

Cerny, Dr. Peter: 9 amblygonite-montebrasite, Canada (313782).

Chalumeau, Dr. F.: 26 scarab beetles (312704).

Chandler, Donald S.: 5 beetles, North America (316286).

Chandler, Jack H., Jr.: 18 freshwater mollusks, Georgia (313931).

Chapin, Mrs. Joan B.: 2 beetles (312706).

Charlton, Gilbert N., Jr.: partial vertebrate fossil skull (314335).

Chick, Mrs. Walter G.: 68 minerals, New England (311448).

Clamp, Dr. John: 3 protozoan slides, North Carolina (314320).

Clark, Dr. William D.: 205 crustaceans (295300).

Clarke, Dr. Arthur H.: 7 freshwater mollusks, Michigan (315743).

Clayberg, Eric L.: 3 fossil whale vertebrae (314450).

Close, Mrs. Emmett: 85 minerals, Connecticut (313442).

Codoceo, Maria: 32 mollusks, Chile (313970).

Cody, Dr. Robert D.: 1 mineral, Iowa (311416).

Cohen, Anne: 400+ worms, 25 marine mollusks, 104+ crustaceans, Hawaii
(315012).

Colgate, William: 8 worms, Long Island Sound (304622).

Collins, Mrs. R. Lee (through Dr. Harold K. Brooks): 6 leaf mines and
insect galls on leaves (314847).

Condie, Susan: 3 plants, Costa Rica (313535).

Cook, Carl: 23 dragonflies, Worldwide (315750, exchange).

Cook, Dr. Margaret L.: 12 midges, Australia (315235).

Cooper, Dr. Kenneth: 257 beetles (312010).

Cooper, Dr. Robert W.: 2 monkeys (313839).

Corbett, H. V.: 1 calciostrontianite, Maryland (311312).

Corbett, J. A.: 1 hammock, Auca Indians, Ecuador (313311).

Cortes, Dr. Raul: 10 small moths, Chile (315090).

Couacaud, Mrs. Jean: 7 mollusks (310566).

Covell, Dr. Charles V., Jr.: 4 butterflies, North America (315233).

Craig, Mrs. Louis A.: 1 pottery water bottle, Mexico (316037).

Craig, Dr. Wilfred S.: 1 caddisfly, Missouri (314063).

Cressey, Dr. Roger F.: 2 lots washings, 500 marine mollusks (310512);
9 leeches (311884).

Cronin, Dr. J. Eric: 37 beetles, North America (316050).

Cross, Ellis R.: 1 mollusk (309928).

Cross, Jarrett L.: 1,707 insects, North America (315227).

Crow, Mr. and Mrs. Charles: 4 pyrite, Ohio (311038).

Currier, Rock H.: 17 minerals (311354, 313072).

Daugherty, A. L.: 1 agate egg, Oregon (308376).

Davies, Robert: 42 crustaceans, Maryland (314045).

Davis, Lloyd R., Jr.: 143 moths, North America (312694).

Dawson, Dr. C. E.: 92 marine mollusks, Indonesia (313114).

Dawson, Y. E. (see Barnard, Dr. J. L.).

DeBarros, Neylson: 4 stokesite, Brazil (311951).

Decker, Bryce G.: 40 mollusks, Marquesas Islands (314013).

Degener, Drs. Otto and Isa: 20 crustaceans, Hawaii (315152).

Del Solar, Dr. Enrique M.: 772 crustaceans, 1 brachiopod (298992).

Demaree, Delzie: 49 plants, U.S.A. (314186).

De Meillon, Dr. Botha: 126 insects, Africa (315223).

Denning, Dr. Donald G.: 204 stoneflies (312017, 316271).

Dennis, Steve: 30 moths, Colorado (315220).

Dingle, Dr. Hugh (see Caldwell, Dr. Roy L.).

518 / Smithsonian Year 1975

a

Oto
Dingman, Johnson (through Mrs. Eva D. Bacon): 1 beaded horn club,
Michigan (316267).

Dobbins, Mr. and Mrs. Alex: 2 sea urchins, New Zealand (254774).

Dodgson, James C.: 9 arrows, 1 bow and arrows, New Mexico (313313).

Donnelly, Dr. T. W.: 2 damselflies, Puerto Rico (312002).

Dornfeld, Dr. E. J.: 154 butterflies, Oregon (310438).

Dow, Dr. Richard P.: 20 wasps, North America (314048).

Downs, Mrs. Frederick R., Jr. (see Abbott, Mrs. Robert O., Jr.).

Drummond, Mrs. F. O.: 25 minerals, North Carolina (314706).

Drummond, Billy: 7 crustaceans, Costa Rica (312432, exchange).

Dulin, Paul: 1 fossil seal jaw, North Carolina (313618).

DuMond, Dr. David M.: 250+ copepods, North Carolina (316020).

Dunn, Mrs. Ethel: 79 wolfeite (312902); 1 synthetic quartz crystal (313750);
102 minerals (313752).

Dunn, Pete J.: 14 minerals (311931).

Dunning, Gail: 10 knipovichite, California (310515).

Durrett, Charles W.: 7 worms, New York (307485).

Dybas, Henry: 34 beetles, North America (311981).

Eaker, Jack W.: 6 minerals, North Carolina (315669).

Easton, John W.: 1 pair of moccasins, U.S.A. (316302).

Eda, Shigeru: 2,465 beetles, Japan & Taiwan, 1 book (314387, exchange).

Edgar, Dr. Alan D.: 1 eudialyte, Canada (312480).

Edgar, Dr. Arlan L.: 11 caddisflies, Venezuela (315094).

Eker, Helene (see Wright, Eugenia I.).

Eldridge, Robert: 3 minerals, New Hampshire (315017).

Elliott, William R.: 4 beetles, U. S. A. (316042).

Emerson, Dr. K. C.: 6 red foxes (315762); 3,838 lice (316305).

Emery, Dr. Howard: 70 bamboos, Nepal (314971).

Enders, Dr. Robert K.: 80 small mammals, Panama (316644).

Engels, Vincent: 12 mayflies, Vermont (315224).

Engleman, Dr. R. Dodge: 1 stink bug, Central America (312695).

Erichsen, Merrill E.: 192+ crustaceans, Lebanon (268337).

Ernst, Dr. Carl H.: 29 turtles (308983); 1 softshelled turtle (315147).

Erwin, Dr. Terry L.: 6,055 coleoptera (312681, 313684).

Evans, Dr. and Mrs. Clifford: 1 headrest, Kenya; 1 armlet, Senegal (313310).

Evans, Howard: 4 newts, New York (315146).

Eyde, Dr. Richard (see Notzold, Dr. T.).

Eyles, Dr. A. C.: 2 lace bugs, New Zealand (310455).

Fairchild, Dr. G. B.: 8 horseflies (316323).

Fashing, Dr. Norman J.: 10 mite slides, North America (312692).

Faul, Dr. Henry: 5 minerals (311020, 315180).

Felix, Dr. Charles J.: 60 slides on 99 palynological types (315615).

Ferreira, Dr. Antonio J.: 1 marine mollusk (311428).

Ferris, Dr. O. D.: 302 butterflies, U.S.A. (315096).

Figiel, Dr. and Mrs. Leo S. and Figiel, Dr. and Mrs. Steven J.: 2 paintings,
India (316036).

Finamore, Mrs. Ardis: 1 drum with sticks, American Indian (316263).

Fix, Dr. Michael: 6 brachiopods, Missouri (312939).

Fleisher, Dr. Robert L.: 186 foraminifera slides (311457).

Fleming, Dr. Laurence E. (see Henry, Dr. Jean-Paul; Reddell, James R.; and
Wolff, Dr. Torben).

Flint, Dr. Oliver S., Jr.: 778 insects (313340, 316550).

Flynn, Shields: 6 genthelvite, Rhode Island (311387).

Foord, Dr. Eugene: 22 corderoite, 1 vial (313007).

Ford, Dr. James A.: 1 human skeleton missing right femur, Mississippi
(316258).

Appendix 13. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 519
Foster, Dr. David E.: 4 insects, Texas (316053).

Franclemont, Dr. John G.: 20 small moths, North America (316272).

Fransolet, Dr. Andre-Mathieu: 1 melonjosephite, Morocco (310173).

Frommer, Saul: 15 caddisflies, South America (313874).

Furnish, Dr. W. M.: 400 brachiopods, New Mexico (314451).

Gagne, Dr. Raymond J.: 213 gall midges, North America (314057).

Gaines, Dr. Richard V.: 12 minerals (310439, 311934, 313980).

Gambino, Dr. Joseph F., III (see Gambino, Mrs. Ruth B.).

Gambino, Mrs. Ruth B. (through Dr. Joseph F. Gambino, III): wedding
kimono and shoes, Japan (316265).

Garmo, Dr. Torgeir: 57 minerals, Norway (313746, exchange).

Garrou, William E., Jr.: 1 bone comb, 1 fossil ivory, Alaska (303862).

Geijskes, Dr. D. C.: 359 caddisflies, Surinam (314427).

Gensel, Dr. Patricia G.: 18 paleobotanical specimens, Virginia (313740).

George, Gilbert: 34 minerals, 1 lot fragments (314037).

Gerberg, Dr. Eugene J.: 150 moths, Seychelles Islands (315226).

Gess, Dr. F. W.: 1 wasp, Africa (311998).

Gharui, Dr. M. S. K.: 1 lace bug, South America (312705).

Ghiselin, Dr. Jon: 10 bird skins, Tunisia (316327).

Ghose, Mrs. Krishnarati: 1 textile, India (313674).

Gibbs, Dr. K. Elizabeth: 4 stoneflies (311988).

Gibbs, Norman R.: 1 margarite, New Zealand (313441).

Gibson, Dr. Gordon D.: 2 cloth caps, Maderia Islands (313672).

Gibson-Smith, Dr. J.: 45 fossil mollusks, Venezuela (311014).

Gillaspy, Dr. James E.: 7 lacewings, North America (316552).

Gillogly, Allen: 115 beetles, Alaska (312025).

Gilmore, Dr. Raymond: 11 worms (305420).

Gittinger, Mr. and Mrs. J. Price: 15 native craft materials, Australia (313315).

Gittins, Dr. John: 1 agrellite, Canada (315526).

Codfriaux, Dr. Bruce L.: 9+ echinoderms, New Zealand (298189).

Gold, Dr. D. P.: 1 wollastonite, Canada (311310).

Gooding, Dr. R. U.: 58 crustaceans, West Indies (297650).

Gordon, Dr. C. D.: 3 cicadas, North America (312019).

Gordon, Gloria: 1 beetle and 1 caterpillar, Venezuela (313336).

Goudey, Hatfield: 2 mineral lots (313743).

Goulet, Henri: 29 ground beetles, North America (313691).

Graham, Josephine L.: 4 embroidered clothing items, China (313673).

Graves, Mr. and Mrs. Cecil: 8,500 mineral micromounts with catalog and
microscope (315618).

Green, Arthur A., Jr.: 35 rodents, Africa (315159).

Greenhall, Arthur M.: 1 tortoise, Mexico (313510).

Greenhall, Paul R.: 4 rodents, Trinidad (316636).

Greenbaum, Harold: 2 sawflies (310971).

Greenberg, Raymond: 1 human skeleton, Maryland (316693).

Greenwell, Francis M.: 3 crustaceans, Virginia (313840) (see also Hasinger,
David).

Gressitt, Dr. J. L.: 43 wasps (313955).

Grey, L. Paul: 506 butterflies and moths, North America (313319).

Griesemer, Dr. Allan D.: 5 brachiopods, Wisconsin (311789).

Griffin, Dr. W. L.: 19 minerals, Norway (309445, exchange) ; 1 wollastonite,
Norway (311353).

Grosch, Kurt J.: 24 marine mollusks, Mozambique (312136).

Guggenheimer, Mrs. Max: cricket basket, China (316264).

Gunther, Lloyd: 4 slabs and 10+ specimens of fossils (313780, exchange) ; 4
slabs and 10+ specimens of fossils (313836); 16 slabs of fossils (315296).

Gurney, Dr. A. B.: 207 insects, Brazil (313326).

520 / Smithsonian Year 1975
Hacker, Dr. J. Douglas: 56 cicadas, North America (312023).

Haettenschwiller, Peter: 47 bagworm moths, Switzerland (313322).

Hagen, Dr. K. S.: 4 beetles, North America (311978).

Hall, David G.: 1,400 flies, Pacific Islands (316311).

Hambleton, Dr. Edson J.: 100 plants, Virginia (310400).

Hamilton, Dr. Robert W.: 4 weevils, North America (314061).

Hammond, Billy A. F.: 12 crustaceans, Ecuador (314826).

Hanahan, John, Jr.: 74 minerals, North Carolina (312763, 312899, exchanges).

Handley, Dr. Charles O., Jr.: 825 mammals, Virginia (313964, 313965,
313966, 313967).

Hangsterfer, Mrs. Geneva: 2 cloths, New Guinea (316257).

Hansel, Cary J.: 300 wasps, North America (316057).

Hansen, Gary: 1 pyrite, Missouri (313978).

Hanson, Dr. Wilford J.: 90 beetles (312703).

Hardy, Dr. Alan: 7 beetles, North America (311985).

Haren, John L.: 1 apatite nodule, West Virginia (311973).

Haring, Mrs. Douglas G.: 7 anthropological items, Japan (310854).

Harmatuk, Peter J.: 1 vivianite, (315616); 2 nautiloids (315757).

Harris, Dr. D. C.: 3 minerals, Newfoundland (311429).

Harris, Dr. Halbert M.: 1,117 damsel bugs, worldwide (312005).

Harrison, Dr. A. D.: 18 caddisflies, West Indies (314062).

Harrison, Richard V.: 28 crustaceans (310916, 315581).

Hasinger, David (through Francis M. Greenwell) : 118 mammals (311907).

Hatschbach, Dr. Gert: 139 plants (311124, 312818, 312826).

Hatton, Lester E., Jr.: 2 mammals, Maryland (316635).

Hayes, William A.: 4 crustaceans (312099, 313738).

Heaslip, Dr. W. Graham: 400 marine mollusks, Vietnam (312137).

Hecht, Mr. and Mrs. Arnold S.: 30 minerals, North Carolina (311933, 312381).

Hedges, Frank R.: 9 insect larva, North America (316312).

Heflin, Eugene: 2 human skulls, Oregon (316540).

Heitzman, Dr. Roger L.: 6 moths, North America (316556).

Hendry, Michael: 252 wasps, North America (313679).

Henne, Christopher: 20 butterflies, North America (314390).

Henry, Dr. Jean-Paul and Magniez, Dr. Guy (through Dr. Laurence E.
Fleming) : 34 crustaceans, 25 slides (295102, exchange).

Hepner, Dr. L. W.: 261 leafhoppers (313688).

Herman, Dr. Lee: 4 beetles (316546).

Herman, Dr. Yvonne: 6 foraminifera slides, Arctic Ocean (312205).

Herrmann, Dr. Scott J.: 67 flies, Colorado (311983, 316544, 316559).

Hevel, Gary F.: 25,066 insects (312013).

Hickman, Dr. Carole S.: 2 marine mollusks, 13 invertebrate fossils (312963).

Hindman, James R.: 1 whelanite, Utah (314043).

Hobson, Mrs. Kay: 3 worms, British Columbia (313784, exchange).

Hodge, Robert P.: 5 frogs, Washington (313397).

Hodges, Dr. Ronald W.: 17 butterflies, Michigan (312683) ; 389 caddisflies,
Michigan (315241).

Hodgkinson, Dr. Kenneth A.: 57 fossil scaphopods, Texas (312458).

Hoffman, Dr. Richard: 19 stoneflies, Virginia (312020).

Hopkins, Dr. Arthur H.: 5,000 invertebrate fossils, U.S.A. (310994).

Houbrick, Dr. Richard S.: 150+ marine mollusks, British Honduras (311282).

Houser, Mrs. Trudy: 1 aragonite, Arizona (310952).

Hovore, Frank: 27 beetles, North America (316047).

Howe, William H.: 134 butterflies, Kansas and 29 butterfly paintings (316551).

Hubbs, Dr. Carl: 11 marine mammals (316637, 316648).

Hudson, Maxwell John: 4 minerals, Australia (315664).

Hueber, Dr. Francis: 18 augite, Fiji Islands (315665).

Appendix 13. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 521
Huizing, Mr. and Mrs. Terry: 2 celestine, Ohio (313077).

Hummon, Dr. William D.: 6 worm slides (311066).

Hunt, Dr. John M.: 10 arrows, Venezuela (316034).

Hutchinson, Helen J.: 1 mouse (316634).

Hynd, W. R. B.: 13 lacewings, Worldwide (311995).

Isena, Mr. and Mrs. H. A.: 6 calcite, Curacao (315662).

Issiki, S.: 163 moths, Japan (316316).

Jedlicka, John: 1 sulfur in dolomite, Maryland (310444).

Johnson, Dr. Gerald H.: 1 fossil seal vertebra, Virginia (314152).

Johnson, Dr. J. G.: 132 brachiopods, Nevada (314151, 314878).

Johnson, Mrs. Kazue: 53 ethnological items, Japan (313671).

Johnson, Roy, Jr.: 450 centipedes, California (316319).

Jones, Kirkland L.: 3 frogs, Puerto Rico (315523).

Jones, Richard: 2 twinned quartz, Arizona (310151).

Journeay, John A.: 1 phlogopite, Canada (313136).

Jurasz, Charles M.: 1 minke whale (316702).

Kaicher, Mrs. Sally D.: 35 marine mollusks (313800).

Kato, Dr. Akira: 3 minerals, Japan (315178).

Kavanaugh, David H.: 1 beetle, North America (313001).

Kawakatsu, Dr. Massharu: 6 flat worm slides (311424).

Keller, Donald: 2 minerals (315955).

Kennedy, Dr. Helen: 135 plants (313583).

Kiel, Warren J.: 16 butterflies, North America (313335).

Kimball, Charles P.: 40 moths, Florida (316141).

Kimball, Kenneth W.: 329 caddisflies, Iran (315218).

King, Dr. Robert Merrill: 2 land mollusks, Ecuador (314014).

King, Vandall: 13 minerals, U.S.A. (310553).

King, Warren B.: 2 bird eggs (316560).

Kiracofe, Jack: mammal skeleton (316703).

Knop, Dr. Osvald: 1 vial synthetic mineral crystals (284511).

Knowlton, Dr. George F.: 7,506 insects (313327, 314065, 314066, 315097,
315221).

Knutson, Dr. Lloyd: 75 freshwater snails, Colombia (313969).

Kohn, Dr. Alan J.: 19 mollusks, North America (312411).

Kono, Tokuwo: 30 thrips (313689, 315101, 316040, 316046, 316049).

Kramer, H. H. (see Montgomery, Dr. B. E.)

Krauss, Mrs. Roy: 6 marine mollusks, Florida (314720).

Kristiansen, Roy: 81 minerals (310171, 315077, exchanges).

Krombein, Dr. Karl V.: 1 mantispid (312699); 14 wasps (315244).

Kuennemeier, Mr. and Mrs. Paul: 1 celestite, Ohio (310955).

Kugler, Dr. Hans G.: 1 invertebrate fossil, Venezuela (315672).

Kuhne, Dr. Helmut: 167+ crustaceans, Germany (301719).

Kyle, Philip R.: 15 minerals, Antarctica (312188).

Lager, Dr. George A.: 2 jagonerite, Yukon (310172).

Lagier, Randy: 6 beetles, North America (312690).

Lago, Paul K.: 10 scarab beetles (316060, 316547).

Lambers, Dr. D. Hille Ris: 4 aphid slides (316292, exchange).

Lamy, Dr. Jacques: 1 ground beetle, France (312682).

Lane, Dr. Gary N.: 3 invertebrate fossils (312349).

LaPointe, Walter G.: 1 ceremonial spearcase, Rwanda (313314).

Lautenschlager, Dr. Lyle: 17,500 insects, South America (315222).

Lavalle, Arthur: 31 flies, North America (316276).

Lavigne, Dr. Robert: 17 dragonflies, Mexico (313325).

Lawler, Dr. Adrian R.: 6 flesh flies, North America (316698).

Leeuw, Irwin: 38 butterflies, North America (314052).

Lenczy, Dr. Rudolph: 1 beetle, California (316306).

522 / Smithsonian Year 1975
Leonard, Steven W.: 26 freshwater snails, North Carolina (315545).

Leuschner, Ronald: 2 moths, California (312014).

Levorson, Calvin O.: 22, 714 invertebrate fossils, lowa (312367).

Lewis, Cindy A.: 7 crustaceans, California (310877).

Lewis, James, Jr.: 16 bird skins (316062).

Lewis, Dr. John F.: 10 plutonic xenoliths, West Indies (311861).

Lidstrom, Walt: 10 minerals, Worldwide (312447, exchange).

Lieftinck, Dr. M. A.: 2 bees, Iran (316281).

Lightner, E., Jr.: 16 handaxes, Libya (316299).

Lindroth, Dr. Carl H.: 512 stoneflies (312689).

Linsley, Dr. Robert M.: 60 fossil gastropods (313466).

Lipps, Dr. J. H.: 37 foraminifera slides, Oregon (311199).

Llewellyn, Mrs. Betty H.: 4 pyrite, Texas (313078).

Loomis, H. F.: 1 centipede, Florida (312691).

Lord, Dr. Arthur E., Jr.: 2 synthetic iron crystals (311414).

Loveridge, Arthur: 1 crustacean, 60 land mollusks (310437).

Lowry, Dr. W. D.: 19 brachiopods, Virginia (314321).

Ludvigsen, Dr. Rolf: 37 brachiopods, Canada (313642, exchange).

Luedtke, Robert J.: 4 beetles, Montana (316545).

Lugton, Ralph: 137 minerals, North America (311386).

MacMillan, Mrs. Mary: 1 lot pickeringite and gypsum, Colorado (314358).

Macy, Clayton: 14 minerals, Arizona (315974).

Magniez, Dr. Guy (see Henry, Dr. Jean-Paul).

Malone, Mrs. Elsie: 7 marine mollusks (314399).

Marcus, Philip: 2 fossil seal bones, Florida (312478, 313036).

Marden, Luis: 1 mayfly, China (314060).

Marrow, Maxwell P.: 15 marine mollusks (314691).

Mason, Dr. Brian H.: 9 minerals (314040, 315519).

Matheny, Mrs. Elizabeth A.: 115 freshwater mollusks, Nebraska (314012).

Mather, Bryant: 35 caddisflies (314059, 316554).

Mathis, Wayne: 5 flies, North America (315234).

Matternes, Jay H.: 7 primates (316639).

Martin, Dr. Peter B.: 31 dinosaur egg shell fragments (311541).

Martorell, Dr. Luis F.: 4 treehoppers, West Indies (311984).

May, Dr. Mallory S. III: 1 crustacean, North Carolina (312904).

McAlpin, Bruce: 1 plant, Costa Rica (310384).

McCabe, Tim L.: 30 butterflies, North America (316280).

McFarlane, Mrs. Jesma: 3 mammals, Tobago (313938).

McGuinness, Albert: 8 minerals, Oregon (312761, 313071).

McLellan, Ian D.: 30 caddisflies, New Zealand (313692).

McLellan, Jack H.: 4 synthetic minerals, North Carolina (315617).

McLindon, William: 1 Paiute Indian basket (313241).

Medler, Dr. J. T.: 328 true bugs, Africa (316313).

Meggers, Dr. Betty J.: 12 household items, China and Japan (313677) ;
1 wooden box, Samoa (316268).

Melon, Dr. M. (through Dr. R. B. Neuman): 15 brachiopods (315980).

Mendryk, Harold: 1 fossil ammonite (314153).

Merritt, Mrs. Sammie J.: 5 bees, North America (314054).

Meyer, Mrs. Kaniaulono: 15 mollusks, Panama (313930).

Meyer, Dr. Marvin C.: 7 leeches, Missouri (311783).

Micheli, Julio: 1 water beetle, Puerto Rico (313680).

Miller, Mrs. Cynthia: 12 pyrite concretions, Illinois (315018).

Miller, Dr. Walter B.: 2 land mollusks (315742).

Milliron, Dr. H. E.: 101 bumblebees (312012).

Milton, Dr. Charles: 2 minerals (311382, 314311).

Minette, James: 11 minerals, California (310152, 315009, exchanges).

Appendix 13. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 523
Moldenke, Dr. Harold N.: 1 plant, Ceylon (312288).

Mongkhone, Vanida S.: 23 ethnological items, Laos (316261).

Montgomery, Dr. B. E. and PURDUE UNIVERSITY (through H. H. Kramer):
24,000 insects, Worldwide (316325).

Moore, Dr. Ian: 20 beetles, Mexico (316322).

Morris, Mrs. George Maurice: diamond and amethyst brooch (313916).

Mrose, Mary: 1 mineral, Spain (313753).

Muller, Joseph: 8 moths, New Jersey (316697).

Murphy, Jack: 20 minerals, U.S.A. (315539).

Nair, Dr. N. Balakrishnan: 29 marine mollusks, India (315744).

Nawaz, Dr. R.: 1 killalaite, Ireland (311957).

Neidhoefer, James R.: 1,303 butterflies, North America (313681).

Neufeld, John: 5 fossil wood specimens, Wyoming (314068).

Neuman, Dr. R. B. (see Melon, Dr. M.).

Neves, Richard: 1 caddisfly, Massachusetts (315231).

Newell, Dr. Norman D.: 4,000 marine invertebrates, Tunisia (315212).

Newell, Robert L.: 7 stoneflies (312022).

Nigrini, Dr. Catherine: 4 radiolarians, Arabian Sea (313963).

Noffsinger, Dr. Estil J.: 3 cicadas, North America (311996).

Norden, Arnold: 1 fossil turtle (310700) ; 19 crustaceans (311757, 313436).

Norris, Dr. Kenneth S.: 5 marine mammals (316565).

Norse, Elliott A. (through Dr. A. B. Williams): 2 crustaceans, Florida (312355).

Notzold, Dr. T.: 21 vials coal fruits, Germany (311787).

O’Brien, Dr. Lois B.: 2 bees, nest and associated immature stages, Central
America (315276).

Ofm, Dr. W. W. Kempf: 6 ants, South America (315238).

Oliver, Dr. William: 1,120 invertebrate fossils, Europe (314722, 315671).

Onyeagocha, Dr. Anthony C.: 52 dunite and chrome vein rocks, Washington
(311862).

Oswald, Delbert: 4 lombaardite, Canada (314379, exchange).

Palmer, Mrs. Velma: 2 basketry items, 1 pottery jar, U.S.A. (316296).

Papesik, Dr. V. S.: 1 rutile, Canada (310190).

Passaglia, Dr. E.: 3 minerals, Europe (311430).

Patrick, M. Bordat: 123 beetles, North America (316227, exchange).

Paul, Dr. Christopher R. C.: 6 invertebrate fossils, Indiana (313047).

Peacor, Dr. Don: 1 cancrinite, Canada (311953).

Pearson, Dr. M. J.: 1 siderite concretion, England (314313).

Peck, Dr. Stewart B.: 3 beetles (311980); 11 lygaeid bugs (311987).

Peel, Dr. John S.: 1 fossil gastropod, Scotland (311042).

Perez-Farfante, Dr. Isabel (see Woodard, Bryan).

Pescador, M. L.: 136 caddisflies, Chile (316052).

Pessagno, Dr. Emile A., Jr.: 134 invertebrate fossil slides (313467).

Peters, Daniel J.: 2 ostracod slides, Virginia (310864).

Peters, Dr. William L.: 73 mayflies (313328).

Petrey, Curtis: 8 calcite, California (313141).

Pieters, S.: 4 minerals, Africa (311022, exchange); 10 minerals, Africa (315179).

Pinch, William W.: 14 minerals (310530, exchange) ; 3 minerals (312898).

Pine, Dr. Ronald H.: 1 bat, Maryland (316563).

Plath, Walter: 566 insects, Puerto Rico (307560).

Platt, Pamela: 1 fossil whale skull, Maryland (312672).

Pletesch, Donald J.: 58 crustaceans, Mexico (310435).

Poag, Dr. C. Wylie: 10 invertebrate fossils (313645).

Poche, Richard M.: 34 rodents, Niger (316647).

Pochek, Stephen: 1 stilbite, New Jersey (313756, exchange).

Poorman, Leroy: 45+ marine mollusks, Mexico (310118).

Povarennykh, Dr. A. S.: 15 minerals, USSR (313137, exchange).

524 / Smithsonian Year 1975
Powell, Dr. Jerry A.: 251 small moths, North America (316321).

Pratt, Dr. Harry D.: 10 flies, North America (316002, exchange).

Prew, Mrs. Laurie: 1 head ornament, 1 nose ring, India (313675).

Proud, Mrs. Amanda: 24+ marine mollusks, Hong Kong (313917).

Putnam, Doug: 47 echinoderms, Florida (306748).

Pyburn, William F.: 2 frogs, Colombia (313468).

Quick, Edward R.: 1 dolomite, Pennsylvania (311021).

Quintero, Dr. Diomedes, Jr.: 6 plant bugs, Central America (315230).

Rabinowitz, Deborah: 2 small moths, Panama (311979).

Radford, Adm. and Mrs. Arthur W.: 1 landscape painting, China (313676).

Rahn, Russell A.: 647 moths and butterflies (312029, 312684).

Rahm, Dr. U.: 3 shrews, Congo (316704).

Rainey, William E.: 1 sea turtle, West Indies (313133).

Ranco, Frederick: 38 minerals, New England (311380).

Rasnitsyn, Dr. A.: 1 wasp, USSR (312021).

Ratliff, John: 2 crustaceans, Oregon (313985).

Ream, Lanny R.: 6 calcite, Montana (310169).

Reddell, James R. (through Dr. Laurence E. Fleming): 25 crustaceans,
Mexico (304730).

Reeves, Mr. and Mrs. M.: 1 garnet, Utah (313742, exchange).

Reiger, George: 1 seal skull (316638).

Reimann, Dr. Irving G.: 481 fossil blastoids (311233).

Reinert, Dr. J. F.: 1,933 insects, North America (312754, 313697).

Rentz, Dr. David C.: 1,994 insects (315228).

Reynolds, John N.: 129 stoneflies, North America (312016, 313687).

Ricker, Dr. William E.: 2 stoneflies, Japan (316243).

Ridding, Michael: 2 serandite, Canada (310805, exchange).

Riddle, William: 2 invertebrate fossils, Tennessee (313037).

Rimoli, Renato O.: 48 shrimp, Dominican Republic (310090) ; 25 land mollusks,
Dominican Republic (314846).

Rios, Dr. Eliezer G.: 4 marine mollusks, Brazil (311540).

Risebrough, Dr. Robert W.: 1 bird skin, Antarctic (316063).

Roberds, Dr. Frances E.: 37 ethnological specimens, (316300).

Robertson, Mrs. Anabel Graves and Wiggins, Mrs. Isabel Graves: 62
ethnological specimens (310992).

Robertson, Mrs. Kay: 1 cinnebar, California (315020).

Robinson, Dr. G. G.: 4 aphid slides, North America (311993, exchange).

Robison, Dr. R. A.: 4 invertebrate fossils (310939).

Rockney, Vaughn: 23 ivory figures, Alaskan Eskimo (313669).

Roe, Dr. Arthur: 18 minerals and 1 lot (310953, 312760, 312895).

Rogers, Mr. and Mrs. Ernest H.: 262 minerals (311449).

Romero S., Dr. Miguel: 4 wulfenite, Mexico (311912).

Root, Dr. Richard B.: 8 milkweed bugs, South America (312001).

Rossman, Dr. George R.: 1 alstonite, Illinois (310170).

Rowe, Dr. Gilbert: 1 echinoderm, Massachusetts (304793).

Rowley, Elmer B: 1 celestite, New York (300382, exchange).

Rucker, Dr. J. B.: 24 bryozoa, Florida (315952).

Ruhoff, Mrs. Florence: 5 minerals, 1 lot, North Carolina (311311).

Russi, Dr. Simon: woman’s cap and boots, Tibet (313668).

Saas, Dr. Dan: 2 invertebrate fossils, New York (310922).

Sabrosky, Dr. Curtis W.: 192 insects (312685, 313334, 316293).

St. Hoyme, Dr. Lucille E.: 1 domestic cat (316561).

Sakimura, K.: 19 thrips, Hawaii (316269).

Sakurai, Dr. Kin-ichi: 1 bustamite, Australia (313019).

Salnier, James: 20 beetles, North America (311410, exchange).

Sanchez, Dr. Patricio: 15+ echinoderms, Chile (264900).

Appendix 13. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 525
Sanders, Mrs. Arzada Brown: 4 pottery items (316266).

Sanderson, Dr. Milton: 2 beetles, North America (315900).

Sartenaer, Dr. Paul: 13 invertebrate fossils (313295, 315880).

Sawyer, Dr. Roy T.: 1,000+ freshwater mollusks, 18 crustaceans, 2,091
leeches (310857).

Schade, Francisco H.: 13 bats, Paraguay (313937).

Schaffner, Dr. Joseph C.: 39 plant bugs (316044, 316055).

Scheibner, Dr. Rudy: 3 cicadas, North America (312003).

Schlauch, Frederick C.: 4 watersnakes, New York (314740).

Schlicter, Ernie: 1 danalite, New Hampshire (310951).

Schneck, Dr. Juan A.: 15 caddisflies, Argentina (316553).

Schroeder, Dr. Robert E.: 20 sponges, Cayman Islands (313806).

Schuh, Joe: 61 insects (314047, 316557).

Schullen, Dr. Herman A.: 11 wasps (311991, 316294).

Seel, Paul: 1 xenolith, South Africa (311782).

Seeling, R. A.: botanical library and photographs (311602).

Sering, Harry: 3 calcite, Illinois (313008).

Serna, Marco A.: 15 bird skins, Colombia (308535, exchange).

Shea, Dennis: 24 minerals (312762).

Sihvonen, John: 72 plants, Africa (311174).

Simpson, Ronald D.: 43 brachiopods, New Mexico (311013).

Sinkankas, John: 1 cut opal (315008, exchange); 21 minerals (315968).

Sisco, Stephen G.: 1 plant, Oklahoma (312780).

Slagle, Edward S.: 2 fossil mammal bones (315619).

Smith, Dr. C. F.: 80 aphid slides, North America (316290, exchange).

Smith, Dr. David R.: 311 sawflies, Brazil (312008).

Smith, Frederick L.: 5 minerals, Africa (312896).

Smith, F. L.: 1 serandite, Canada (315517).

Smith, Joe B.: 1 chrysocolla, Utah (311381).

Snyder, Dr. Scott W.: 5 foraminifera, Gulf of Mexico (313864).

Sohn, Dr. I. Gregory: 1 freshwater mollusk, Sweden (313649).

Soini, Pekka: 50 snakes, Peru (311044).

Spangler, Dr. Paul J.: 558 insects, North America (312698, 313698).

Spencer, Douglas R.: 10 polychaetes, New York (311447).

Spilman, Theodore J.: 345 insects, North America (316307).

Squires, Dr. H. J.: 25 crustaceans, Colombia (311375).

Stanford, Jack: 25 stoneflies, Montana (312687).

Stansbery, Dr. David H.: 8 freshwater mollusks, Pennsylvania (311281).

Stark, William P.: 1,773 insects, North America (311705, 312697, 315243).

Steinberg, Stuart L.: 1 ceremonial human skull, New Guinea (309797).

Steiner, Warren E.: 14 biting midges, Guatemala (314051).

Steinmann, Dr. H.: 15 caddisflies, Argentina (316043).

Stemler, Kathy: 6 insects, Puerto Rico (312011).

Stewart, John: 1 genthelvite, Canada (310441).

Stockton, Dr. William, Jr.: 1 dance mask, Bali (313667).

Stockwell, Dr. Henry: 27 beetles (316865).

Stone, Leonard Riley (through Baltimore County Police Bureau): 1 human
skull, Maryland (316543).

Stonehouse, Tom:: 22 fossil mammals and turtles, New Jersey (315739)

Strimple, Dr. Harrell L.: 136 fossil crinoids (310918, 312221).

Stuart, Mrs. Hadley: 16 minerals, Idaho (314042).

Suharto, Mrs. J. N. J.: 3 dancing doll figures, Java (313666).

Sullivan, Barbara: 7 crustaceans, Delaware (293694).

Sullivan, Dr. J. Bolling: 444 moths, North Carolina (312026, 313682).

Surdick, Rebecca Faith: 133 aquatic insects, North America (316549).

Swanson, George: 3 minerals, Africa (313744).

526 / Smithsonian Year 1975
Taggart, David M.: 8 gypsum, Mauritania (314781).

Tarshis, Dr. I. Barry: 10,977 insects and arthropods (316631).

Tarter, Dr. Donald C.: 108 stoneflies, West Virginia (311982).

Tawney, Jeri: 1 petrified wood slice, Oregon (314400).

Taylor, Dr. John: 300 plants, Costa Rica (311629, exchange).

Taylor, S.: 1 beaded leather pouch, U.S.A. (316035).

Tennant, Mr. and Mrs. George: 3 minerals, New Mexico (312758).

Tenorio, Dr. J. A.: 6 mosquitoes, New Guinea (316289).

Teskey, Mrs. Margaret: 45+ marine mollusks, Florida (311019).

Tetrick, John: 2 minerals, U.S.A. (310514).

Thompson, Dr. F. Christian: 6,685 flies, Worldwide (315229).

Thompson, Dr. Geoffrey: 2 vials olivine (315518).

Thomssen, Richard W.: 16 minerals, U.S.A. (311352, 312481, 313747).

Thorington, Dr. Richard W., Jr.: 454 mammals (315605, 316632, 316633).

Thornton, Gerald A.: 18 flies, New Hampshire (312004, 312686).

Tilden, James W.: 221 butterflies, North America (312000).

Tkac, Martin A., Jr.: 2 caddisflies, Ohio (314049).

Togashi, Dr. Ichiji: 33 sawflies, Japan (310084, 313286, exchanges) ; 1 sawfly,
Asia (316277).

Tonander, J. F.: 3 cabochons (304858).

Traub, Dr. Robert: 2,668 fleas, Worldwide (315100).

Trinast, Beth Michele: 180+ crustaceans, 1 slide, California (308901).

Triplehorn, Dr. C. A.: 6 beetles, North America (310300).

Troup, Randy: 3 plants, Alabama (311632).

Truedsson, Ake: 10 minerals, Sweden (311911, 313741, exchanges).

Tschernich, Rudy: 9 minerals and 2 vials, Oregon (313977).

Tunnell, Dr. Wes: 200+ marine mollusks, Gulf of Mexico (312409).

Turnbow, Robert H., Jr.: 148 beetles, North America (316048).

Turner, Mr. and Mrs. Milton: 2 ivory carvings (313079); 1 watch, 1 pendant,
2 snuff bottles (314039).

Vagvolgyi, Dr. Joseph: 13 land mollusks, U.S.A. (293413).

Vail, Virginia A.: 50 freshwater mollusks, Florida (312138).

Van der Vecht, Dr. J.: 9 wasps (316315).

Vickers, Mrs. Frances L.: 4 gypsum, Oklahoma (310440).

Vickery, Cliff: 1 cryolite, Canada (310950).

Villemarette, Mrs. Betty C.: 99 ethnological items, Africa (313272).

Vitt, Laurie J.: 6 lizards, U.S.A. (312747).

Vogel, John W.: 1,616+ crustaceans (271542, 294121).

Vokes, Dr. Emily H.: 17 marine mollusks (312410, 315043) ; 21 fossil
invertebrates (312348, 312395).

Walker, Michael F.: 20 crustaceans, India (311858).

Walker, William A.: 1 dolphin skull (316643).

Wallen, Dr. Eugene: 180 mollusks, Pakistan (233336).

Waller, Mrs. R. R.: 1 Indian pottery bowl and 1 blanket, U.S.A. (316038).

Waller, Dr. Thomas R. (see White, James Seeley).

Wangchuk, His Majesty Jigme Singye: 2 costumes, Bhutan (316297).

Ward, Dr. Ronald: 3 land mollusks, Ethiopia (314015).

Wasshausen, H. P.: 6 synthetic quartz (314038).

Watkins, Dr. Julian F., Il: 3 ants, Mexico (313320).

Watson, Allan: 5 moths (314692).

Watters, George T.: 1 marine mollusk, Virgin Islands (313919).

Watts, J. G.: 3 thrips (312700).

Weber, Wilhelm: 2 plants, South America (312315).

Weibezahn, Franz H.: 191 caddisflies, Venezuela (311989).

Weidner, Dr. H.: 28 caddisflies, Peru (316041).

Weinberg, James R.: 8 crustaceans, California (315525).

Appendix 13. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 527
Wentworth, Mr. and Mrs. John: 1 lot idocrase, in memory of Edwin
E. Kinsey (312382).

Weske, John S.: 1 red squirrel (316646).

Wetmore, Dr. Alexander: 8 fish skeletal elements, 20 mammal skulls and/or
skeletons (311206); 4 mammal skins and skulls (315603).

Wheeler, Dr. Marshall R.: 18 flies (313324, 316314).

White, Dr. Harold B.: 2 dragonflies, Maine (313333).

White, James Seeley: 3 marine mollusks (310876); (through Dr. Thomas R.
Waller): 1 marine mollusk (312880).

Whitehead, Dr. D. R.: 252 ground beetles, North America (312028).

Wielgus, Ronald S.: 1,109 insects (311986, 313339, 313690, 314064, 316324).

Wiggins, Mrs. Isabel Graves (see Robertson, Mrs. Anabel Graves).

Wilber, David P.: 2 minerals (313075, 315019).

Williams, Dr. A. B. (see Norse, Elliott A.).

Williams, Holly and Wright, Marian: 20 insects, Virginia (315095).

Winters, Mary: 1 hydroxlapatite, Maryland (314312).

Wolff, Dr. Torben (through Dr. Laurence E. Fleming): 182+ crustaceans,
Denmark (295101, exchange).

Womble, Edgar A., Jr.: 1 nautiloid, North Carolina (315756).

Womble, Edward: 22 echinoids (311947).

Wood, Dr. Stephen L.: 4 stoneflies, Utah (316696).

Woodard, Bryan (through Dr. Isabel Perez-Farfante) : 3 crustaceans,
New York (307640).

Woodring, Dr. Wendell P.: 16 marine mollusks, Venezuela (310991).

Worthley, Dr. Elmer G.: 2 arrows, Congo (315089).

Wright, Eugenia I. and Eker, Helene: 270 mollusks (310860).

Wright, Marian (see Williams, Holly).

Wyman, Donald G.: 155 minerals, North America (311379, 311388, 312757).

Yancey, Dr. T.: 18 invertebrate fossils, Malaya (311716).

Yenowine, Mr. and Mrs. Tom: 1 calcite, Kentucky (315667).

Yepez, Dr. F. Fernandez: 18 insects, Venezuela (313625).

Yerger, Dr. Ralph W.: 1 mammal skull and skeleton (316701).

Yoder, Dr. Robert Lee: 55 invertebrate fossil slides, 19 slabs containing
fossils (313111).

Young, David G.: 4 moth flies, North America (316059).

Yount, Victor: 1 vanadinite, Morocco (311972).

Zibrowius, Dr. Helmut: 200+ echinoderms, Azores (307807); 5+ echinoderms,
3 crustaceans (312346).

Donors to the National Collections
INSTITUTIONAL

Academia Brasileira de Ciencias, Brazil (through Dr. Hugo de Souza Lopes) :
1 fly, South America (313363, exchange).

Academy of Sciences of the USSR: Paleontological Institute (through Dr.

A. Rasnitsyn) : 27 wasps (313332, exchange); 7 chrysididae (316279,
exchange). P. P. Shirshov Institute of Oceanology (through Dr. R. Ya.
Levenstein) : 5 polynoids (308816, exchange). Zoological Institute (through
Dr. V. Marshakov): 75 wasps (315099, 316273, exchanges) ; (through Dr.
Vera Richter) : 3 tachinid flies (309994, exchange).

Agricultural Research Institute, Australia (through D. E. Symon): 54 plants
(311637).

Agriculture, U.S. Department of: Agricultural Research Service (through
Dr. Richard H. Foote): 100 mollusks (302491) ; 50,709 insects, worldwide
(316140); (through Dr. A. S. Gurney): 1,879 insects, South Africa (312708) ;
(through Dr. Lloyd V. Knutson): 283 mollusks (278478, 283854, 294430,

528 / Smithsonian Year 1975
300266, 305847); (through Dr. F. D. Wilson): 4 Hibiscus, Australia (311582).
Forest Service (through Elbert L. Little, Jr.): 1,321 plants, Alaska (305588,
311585).

Alabama, University of (through E. C. Beckham): 13 crustaceans, Alabama
(310235); (through Thomas S. Jandebeur) : 796 crustaceans (310234, 311389,
315740); (through Dr. C. Earle Smith, Jr.): 8 plants (311114).

Albert Ludwigs Universitat, Germany (through Dr. Otto V. Helversen) :

1 plant and 5 photographs (312865).

Allyn Museum of Entomology (through Mrs. Jacqueline Y. Miller): butterfly,
Central America (316054).

American Museum of Natural History (through Harold S. Feinberg): 5 worms
(288912, exchange); (through Drs. Bruce B. Collette and Donn E. Rosen):

7 fish, Guatemala (314810, exchange).

American University (through Dr. Ellis McDowell): 9 human skeletal remains
(316259).

Arizona, University of (through Dr. Richard C. Brusca): 5 basketstars
(311751); (through Elaine Snyder): 13 crustaceans (314737); (through
Dr. Floyd Werner) : 2 flies (313323). Arizona Cooperative Fishery Unit
(through Michael Saiki): 11 crustaceans (311273).

Arizona State University (through Dr. Denton Belk): 224+ crustaceans
(310697, 313888, 315760); (through Dr. Gerald A. Cole): 2 crustaceans
(315149) ; (through Elinor Lehto): 344 plants (314883, exchange); (through
John N. Rinne): 22 crayfish (297830).

Arkansas State University (through Dr. George L. Harp): 13 crustaceans
(312414, 313041).

Auburn University (through Tom French): 2 crayfish (315758).

Australia Department of Fisheries (through Dr. Michael King): 5 crustaceans
(308882).

Australia Department of Mines: Government Chemical Laboratories: 1 lot
holtite (311431); 1 russellite (312901).

Australian Museum (through Dr. D. J. G. Griffin): 2 isopods (311712,
exchange).

Baltimore County Police Bureau (see Donors to the National Collection,
Individual: Stone, Leonard Riley).

Bermuda Biological Station (through Dr. John C. Markham): 50 crustaceans,
1 slide (311208, 314018); (through Dr. W. Sterrer): 1 sea urchin (312881).

Bishop Museum, Bernice P.: 172 plants (311111, exchange); (through Dr.
Dennis M. Devaney): 10 echinoderms (310114, exchange); (through Dr.

J. L. Gressitt) : 692 long-horned beetles (314067, exchange); (through Anita
Manning): 38 plants (312238, exchange).

Bon Earth Sciences, Inc. (through Tsukasa Kikuchi): 5 mineral specimens
(312479).

Boston University (through Dr. Kenneth R. H. Read): 3 crustaceans (310554).
Marine Program (through Dr. Arthur G. Humes): 7,981 copepods (310301,
313465); 3 worms, 15 brittle stars (311315).

Botanical Survey of India: 58 plants (313517).

Bowling Green State University (through Patrick M. Muzzall): 27 isopods,
Ohio (309788).

Brigham Young University (through Margaret Doherty) : 263 plants (310373,
exchange) ; (through Dr. Parley V. Winger): 8 crustaceans (307586).

British Columbia, University of, Canada (through Dr. Bruce MacBryde) :

55 plants (310401, 314240).

British Museum (Natural History) (through Dr. Z. Boucek): 4 parasitic wasps
(316310); (through Theya Molleson): 4 casts of early human skull and
mandible fragments (316298, exchange); (through Dr. Ellis F. Owen): 10
fossil brachiopods (315951, exchange); (through R. Ross): 414 plants

Appendix 13. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 529
(314206, 314261, 314929, exchanges); (through C. Whiteford) : 152 plants
(314207).

Brookhaven National Laboratory (through Dr. David Judkins) : 71,250+
crustaceans (313811).

California, University of: Berkeley Campus: 111 plants (312822, exchange) ;
(through Dr. Roy L. Caldwell): 13 stomatopods, Thailand (307810) ; (through
Dr. P. A. Opler): 20 botanical specimens, Costa Rica (311138); (through
Dr. William E. Rainey): 23 crustaceans, 3 mollusks (312493). Davis Campus
(through Robert O. Schuster) : 242 scale insects (312338). Los Angeles
Campus (through Dr. Hal Arnell): 11 mosquitoes (312009) ; (through Dr.
LouElla R. Saul): 17 Cretaceous cymbophora and 3 casts (314132).
Riverside Campus (through Dr. P. H. Timberlake): 11 bees (311992) ;
(through George W. Gillett): 21 plants (314880); (through Laurel L.
Walters) : 65 crustaceans (313402); (through Barbara Voorhies) : 10 mollusks
(311316). Scripps Institution of Oceanography (through Ray Bauer): 6
crustaceans, Mexico (314739); (through Dr. Richard H. Benson): 9
ostracodes (315063); (through Dr. P. K. Dayton): 2 asteroids, Chile
(312418); (through Dr. Abraham Fleminger) : 15 copepods (305039) ;
(through Dr. Patty Pauluso) : 50 macroinvertebrate taxa (314316); (through
Dr. Larry Ritchie): 6 copepods and 9 slides (305915); (through David
Thistle): 2 isopods (314765) (see also Donors to the National Collection,
Individual: Barnard, Dr. J. L.).

California Academy of Sciences (through Dr. Paul H. Arnaud, Jr.): 6 flies,
Colombia (316288); (through John Chapman): 88 crustaceans, California
(313035); (through Dr. Barry Roth): 1 pelecypod (313863).

California Department of Fish and Game (through J. R. Raymond Ally): 4
squid (313053).

California Department of Food and Agriculture (through Tokuwo Kono):

1 thrips (313678, exchange).

California State College: Los Angeles Campus (through Dr. J. Henrickson) :
72, botanical specimens, Mexico (310324, 310325). Moss Landing Marine
Laboratories (through Dr. Jack T. Tomlinson): 1 crustacean, Honduras
(294541).

California State University (through Dr. Ju-Shey Ho): 14 copepods (310069) ;
(through Doyle A. Hanan): 22 copepods (313134); (through Dr. Earl Segal):
3 crustaceans (314155).

Cambridge University, England (through Dr. H. B. Whittington) : 64
brachiopods (316096, exchange).

Canada Department of Agriculture: Central Experimental Farm: 413 cannabis
(315802) ; (through Dr. Edward C. Becker): 1 beetle (316282); (through
Gary Gibson): 7 sawflies (314389); (through Dr. B. V. Petersen): 1
blackfly (313498).

Canadian Fisheries Research Board (through Dr. Z. Kabata): 30 crustaceans,
Mexico (292563).

Canadian Wildlife Service (through Dr. R. Stewart Anderson): 50+ isopods
(313516).

Centre de Recherches Oceanographiques, France (through Dr. P. LeLoeuff) :
21 crustaceans (289318).

Centro de Investigaciones Marinas, Venezuela (through Dr. Aljadys Gonzalez):
1 marine mollusk (312455).

Cerritos College (through Dr. Jules M. Crane, Jr.): 1 amphipod (268589).

Chesapeake Biological Laboratory (through Dr. Don Heinle): 7 lots plankton
samples (310949).

Christopher Newport College (through Daniel L. Peters): 17 crayfish (294429).

Clemson University (through Dr. Rudolph Prins): 126+ copepods (271042).

Colegio La Salle, Bolivia (through Adolfo Jimenez): 8 ferns (311089).

530 / Smithsonian Year 1975
Colorado, University of: Museum (through Dr. William A. Weber): 75
bryophytes (313569, exchange).

Combined Scientific Supplies (through Terry W. Taylor): 2 scarab beetles
(314388, exchange).

Commerce, U.S. Department of: National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration (through James Bailey): 1 Minke whale (316649); (through
Dr. C. Christopher Boucher) : 3 crustaceans (312517); (through Dr. Isabel
Canet): 91+ crustaceans (313796); (through Dr. J. Lockwood Chamberlin) :
48+ worms, 1,500 marine mollusks (310121); 15 mollusks (311491);
(through Alexander Dragovich): 45 crustaceans (312224, 313049); (through
H. Arnold Karo): 9 corals (256361); (through Dr. Richard B. Roe): 218
crustaceans (302545); (through Dr. Carl H. Saloman): 3 crustaceans (314433,
315676); (through Gerald A. Sanger): 12 amphipods (305513) ; 500+
amphipods, 1 isopod (309966); (through Dr. Paul J. Struhsaker): 1
stomatopod (311857); (through Dr. Joe Tashiro): 22 crustaceans (299261,
298298); (through Dr. Austin B. Williams): 3 crustaceans (312474).

Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organization (CSIRO)
(through Dr. E. B. Britton): 3 beetles (311727, exchange) ; (through Dr.

I. F. B. Common): 3 butterflies (316045); (through Dr. J. C. Watt): 2
earwigs (312693).

Connecticut, University of (through Dr. Gregory J. Anderson): 2 Solanum
(314182).

Conservatoire et Jardin Botaniques, Switzerland: 40 plants (314183, exchange).

Copenhagen, University of, Denmark: 33 lichens, Greenland (314188,
exchange).

Cornell University (through Margaret H. Stone): 36 plants, West Indies
(310375, exchange).

Czechoslovakia Geological Survey (through Dr. V. Havlicek): 114 brachiopods
(314452, exchange).

Dalhousie University, Canada (through Brian M. Marcotte): 20 crustaceans,
4 slides (307781).

Dallas Museum of Natural History (through Richard W. Fullington): 1 mollusk
(308979).

Decorative Consultants: 4 archeological fragments, Thailand (313312).

Deeming, John C.: 73 flies, Africa (312688).

Defense, U.S. Department of: Department of the Air Force (through Col. John
Carson): 74 reptiles and amphibians, Vietnam (303759); (through Capt.

R. W. Clegern): 21 lizards, Phoenix Islands (313140). Department of the
Army (through Capt. J. Abercrombie, T. Gaffigan, E. L. Peyton, and Maj.
J. F. Reinhart): 570 mosquitoes, Maryland (313695): (through Mrs. Hu-cha
Cho): 83 midge slides, Korea (315091). Department of the Navy (through
Tom J. Peeling): 5 crustaceans, California (315210); (through Capt. H. C.
Sudduth): 18 bird skins, Vietnam (278107); (through Dr. Peter Vogt): 16
glassy basalt (311866).

Del Mar College (through Dr. Robert D. Barnes): 1 echinoderm, Texas
(298680).

Discovery Bay Marine Laboratory, Jamaica (through Cathy Engel) : 19
crustaceans (290029).

Duke University (through Dr. C. G. Bookhout): 3 crustaceans (314403) ;
(through Richard B. Searles) : 42 algae (311572); (through Dr. Maximo
Cerami-Vivas): 744 worms (255045); (through Dr. Kirby Smith) : 3+
holothurians (302498).

East African Marine Fisheries Research Organization (through Dr. A. J.
Bruce): 1 crustacean, Kenya (311888).

East Africa, University of, Kenya (through Mediterranean Marine Sorting
Center): 71 crustaceans (294887).

Appendix 13. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 531
East Carolina University (through Dr. Scott W. Snyder): partial skull of a
Protocetus (313862).

Ege University, Turkey (through Dr. Ahmet Kocatas) : 2 crustaceans (311807).

Elmore County Sheriff’s Office, Idaho (through Earl Winter): human skull
(316539).

Emilio Estrada Museum, Ecuador (through Drs. Clifford Evans and Betty J.
Meggers): 2 lots human skeletal remains (316260).

Environmental Protection Agency, U.S. (through Juan G. Gonzalez) : 14
crustaceans, Massachusetts (292008).

Escuela de Ciencias, Venezuela (through Luis Jose Cumana Campos): 29 plants
(310390).

Escuela Nacional de Agricultura, Mexico (through Dr. Stephen D. Koch):
223 plants (314888, exchange).

Exxon Corporation: Exxon Production Research Co. (through Dr. James L.
Lamb): 4 globorotalia (313048). Eastern Marine Division (through Duane
O. LeRoy): 2 foraminifera slides (311070).

Faculdade de Ciencias Medicas e Biologicas de Botucatu, Brazil (through Dr.
Ilse S. Gottsberger) : 19 plants (313533, 314185, 314916).

Faculte des Sciences de Marseille, France (through Dr. Patrick M. Arnaud):
146+ crustaceans (296581).

Fairchild Tropical Garden (through Donovan S. Carrell): 1 polypodium,
West Indies (314247).

Field Museum of Natural History: 380 plants (314264) ; (through Dr. Lorin I.
Nevling) : 1,589 plants (311579, 314234, 314889, exchanges); 61 plants
(311592, 312308, 312777, 312796, 314215); 596 plants (312775 gift-exchange).

Florida, University of: Florida State Museum (through Dr. Georgiana B.
Deevey): 5 crustaceans, 5 slides (310511, 315933); (through Dr. Carter
R. Gilbert): 546 crustaceans (289913, 311016); (through Dr. John F. Meeder):
5 fossil mollusks (312625).

Florida Department of Agriculture and Consumer services (through H. A.
Denmark): 1 thrips (316317, exchange).

Florida Department of Natural Resources (through Dr. William Lyons):
1,000+ echinoids (286128).

Florida Department of Pollution Control (through Forrest S. Fields, Jr.):

1 crustacean (310878).

Florida Junior College at Jacksonville (through Roger M. Lloyd): 2 fish,
Peru (305708).

Florida State University (through Jim Bishop): 19+ seastars (290376):
(through Dr. Robert W. Hastings) : 541+ crustaceans (292582).

Forschungsinstitut Senckenberg, Germany (through Dr. R. zur Strassen) :

25 thrips (316061, exchange).

General Services Administration (through Arthur F. Sampson): 2 human bones
(316806).

George Washington University: Medical School (through Dr. Charles Mayo
Goss): 1 primate (314020).

Georgia, University of (through Wilbur H. Duncan): 23 plants (312290) ;
(through Richard Heard III): 35 crustaceans (289503); (through Drs.

J. O. Howell and H. H. Tippins) : 7 coccoidea (316555).

Georgia Department of Natural Resources (through Edward T. Hall, Jr.): 43
crustaceans (310948).

Goteborgs Universitet, Sweden: 232 plants (313554, 314944).

Great Britain Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries, and Food (through Dr.

D. G. H. Halstead): 65 insects (316051, 316326).

Great Lakes Biolimnology Laboratory, Canada (through Dr. David G. Cook):
2 worms (311277).

Guam, University of (through Dr. Masashi Yamaguchi): 1 echinoderm
(310113).

532 / Smithsonian Year 1975

Guelph, University of, Canada (through Mary Beverley-Burton) : 6+
echinoderms (291035).

Gulf Coast Research Laboratory (through Dr. Alfred P. Chestnut): 1
crustacean (311074); (through Dr. William D. Burke): 73 sea anemones
(305669); (through Dr. C. E. Dawson): 57+ echinoderms (305237); 13 fishes
(308522); 1,926+ crustaceans, 106 echinoderms, 50 marine mollusks
(308881); 4 mollusks, 28 echinoderms, 2 worms, 216 crustaceans (313094);
253+ crustaceans, 1 worm, 3 mollusks (315292); 152 crustaceans, 19
worms (315724).

Gulf Research and Development Co. (through Dr. A. J. Perrotta): 1 vial
zinc-phlogopite (315670).

Hansen Minerals, Inc. (through Gary Hansen): 13 minerals (310475); 7
minerals (310453, 310474, 312903, exchanges).

Harbor Branch Foundation (through Dr. David W. Kirtley): 36 marine
mollusks, Florida (313069).

Harvard University: Gray Herbarium: 2, 724 plants (311164, exchange);
(through Michael A. Canoso): 322 plants (311557, exchange). Mineralogical
Museum (through Clifford Frondel): 7 minerals (312893, exchange). Museum
of Comparative Zoology (through Dr. Kenneth J. Boss): 3 marine mollusks
(316097).

Hawaii, University of (through Dr. John W. Beardsley): 7 mealybugs (316283) ;
(through Dr. D. Elmo Hardy): 69 fruit flies (315242); (through Dr. John
Maciolek) : 20 fishes (314809); (through Dr. Richard Young): 3 crustaceans
(315011). Hawaii Institute of Marine Biology (through Wayne J. Baldwin):
1 lot fishes (315530). Medical School (through A. C. Smith): 2 echinoids
(306227).

Health, Education, and Welfare, U.S. Department of: Arctic Health Research
Center (through Dr. Francis H. Fay): 1 fossil walrus skull (310701). Center
for Disease Control (through Dr. Steve Bowen): 17 mammals (316562);
(through Robert G. McLean): 75 bird skins, 44 bird skeletons (312621).

Hebrew University of Jerusalem, Israel (through Dr. F. D. Por): 151
cephalopods, Red Sea (297637).

Herbarium Bogoriense, Indonesia (through Dr. A. J. Kostermans) : 1,064
plants (310368, exchange).

Herbario Barbosa Rodrigues, Brazil: 265 plants (312847).

Herbario Ipean, Brazil: 164 plants (311569) ; (through Joao Murca Pires):

2 plants (312862).

Hogle Zoological Gardens (through Bernholt W. Palas): orangutan (316641).

Hong Kong, University of (through Dr. Brian S. Morton): 57 crustaceans
(293125, 294029, 295278); (through Patsy P. S. Wong): 2 crustaceans
(312185).

Hong Kong Agriculture and Forestry Department (through Dr. A. J. L.
Mitchell) : 10 bamboos (311125).

Hopkins Marine Station (through Dr. Donald P. Abbott): 410+ crustaceans
(298236).

Houston, University of (through Dr. Rosalie F. Maddocks) : 35 crustaceans
(312415, 315013); 118 crustacean slides (312430).

Humboldt Universitat zu Berlin, Germany (through Dr. F. Hieke): 4 seed
beetles (315747, exchange).

Ichthyological Associates, Inc. (through Dr. Rudolf G. Arndt): 3 barnacles
(308179).

Illinois, University of (through Allen Novak): 102 crustaceans (310694) ;
(through Dr. Philip A. Sandberg) : 38 crustacean slides (294500).

Illinois Natural History Survey (through Larry M. Page): 7 crustaceans
(313650) ; (through Dr. Donald W. Webb): 13 scorpionflies (311997).

Indian Ocean Biological Centre, India (through Dr. T. C. Gopalakrishnan):

8 copepods (311072).

Appendix 13. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 533
Indiana University (through Dr. David G. Frey): 3 crustaceans, 1 slide
(313242); (through Dr. Frank N. Young): 19 water beetles (312701).

Indonesian Geological Survey (through Dr. Darwin Kadar) : 19 foraminifera
thin sections (313619).

Institut D’Elevaga et de Medecine Veterinaire des Pays Tropicaux, France
(through Dr. Lebrun): 14 plants, Bolivia (314236).

Institute of Systematic Botany, Sweden (through Roland Moberg): 40 lichens
(311597, exchange).

Instituto Botanico, Venezuela: 4 plants (311652, exchange) ; (through Dr.
Getulio Agostini) : 294 plants (311563, 311590, 311613, 311615, 312227,
312811, 312861, 313528, 313549); (through Dr. F. A. Delascio): 6 plants
(311567); (through Dr. G. Morillo): 64 plants (311628, 311635); (through
Dr. Julian A. Steyermark): 435 plants (311140, 311141, 311146, 311172,
311559, 311562, 311627, 312270, 312314, 312831, 313534, 313552, 313607,
314194); 70 plants (312317, 313525, gift-exchanges; (through S. Tillet):
44 plants (312805).

Instituto de Aclimatacion de Almeria, Spain (through Dr. Antonio Cobos):
5 wood boring beetles (315534).

Instituto de Biologia Marina, Argentina (through Jorge L. Fenucci): 4
crustaceans (312219, exchange).

Instituto de Botanica, Brazil: 21 plants (313616); (through Marilza Cordeiro
Marino): 63 plants (311588, exchange).

Instituto de Botanica Darwinion, Argentina (through Dr. Arturo Burkhart) :
100 plants (311618, exchange).

Instituto de Ciencias Naturales, Colombia (through Dr. Enrique Forero):

40 plants (314184).

Instituto de Defesa do Patrimonio Natural, Brazil (through Luiza Thereza
Deconto Dombrowski): 34 plants (311159, 312289, 314208, 314915).

Instituto de Investigaciones Pasqueras, Spain (through Dr. R. Margalef):
60 ostracods (304284).

Instituto de Pesquisad de Marinha, Brazil (through Dr. Solange C. De
Saint-Brisson): 105+ crustaceans (314046).

Instituto di Biologia del Mare, Italy (through Dr. Brigitte Volkmann) :

6 crustaceans, 1 slide (310236).

Instituto Oceanografico de la Armade, Ecuador (through Manuel Cruz
Padilla): 34 marine mollusks (309735).

Inter-American Tropical Tuna Commission (through Dr. Witold L. Klawe) :
1,440+ crustaceans (248287).

Interior, U.S. Department of the: Bureau of Land Management (through J. W.
Young): 2 crayfish (290734). Fish and Wildlife Service: 374 bird skins,

56 bird skeletons (316700); (through Harvey R. Bullis, Jr.) : 2,610+

crustaceans (232276); 1,750 echinoderms (257263); (through R. Bruce Bury):

30 reptiles and amphibians (313139); (through Jack L. Dean): 128
crustaceans (266244); (through Dr. Fred P. Meyer): 706 crustaceans
(290206); (through Dr. Ramsey) : 258 crustaceans (307033); (through Carl
Saloman): 10 crustaceans (269790) ; (through Dr. Donald E. Wilson): 4,629
mammals (316645). U. S. Geological Survey (through Dr. John W. Adams) :
3 minerals, 4 vials (313005) ; (through Dr. W. A. Cobban) : 142 ammonites,
3 pelecypods (310920, 310993, 311948, 314154); (through Dr. George A.
Desborough): 2 mertieite (313154); (through Dr. Bruce R. Doe): 27 rocks
(311764); (through Dr. Raymond C. Douglas): 9 fusulinid thin sections
(315295) ; (through Dr. Richard C. Erd): 2 minerals (311940) ; (through Dr.
John Hanley) : 10,000+ fossil mollusks (313644); (through Dr. Joseph E.
Hazel) : 50,000 fossil mollusks (313643) ; 200 fossil ostracodes (315895) ;
(through Dr. Ralph Imlay): 606 ammonites and bivalves (314805, 314406) ;
(through Dr. Harry S. Ladd): 19 barnacles (311358); (through Dr. J. D.

534 / Smithsonian Year 1975
Love): 17 fossil mollusks (315155); (through Ralph L. Miller): 12 calcareous
concretions (311761); (through Mary Mrose): 65 minerals, 4 vials (310147,
310149, 310150, 311000) ; (through Mary Mrose and Dr. Michael Fleischer) :
34 minerals, 2 vials, 1 lot (313795); (through Dr. R. B. Neuman): 9 fossil
brachiopods (313273); (through Dr. David M. Orchard): 19,250 fossil
invertebrates (313881); (through Dr. Arthur Radtke): 1 frankdicksonite
(315016); (through Dr. Charles A. Sandberg): 154 conodonts (312968);
(through Dr. Harold I. Saunders): 31 quartz crystals (311956); 2 trilobites
(315896); (through Dr. I. G. Sohn): 9 crustaceans (314768) ; 10 crustacean
slides (315150); (through Dr. Michael E. Taylor): 205 eocrinoids (312558) ;
(through Dr. Frank C. Whitmore): 3 marine mollusks (312130).

Iowa State University (through Dr. Richard W. Pohl): 4 plants (314280);

28 plants (314954, exchange); (through Dr. Milton W. Weller): 2 duck
skins (312030).

Jacksonville University (through Dr. Kenneth Relyea): 1 crustacean, Florida
(311015).

Jardim Botanico do Rio de Janeiro, Brazil: 11 plants (311634).

Jardin Botanique National de Belgique, Belgium (through Dr. A. Lawalree) :
695 ferns (315805, exchange).

Jersey City State College (through Dr. George A. Schultz): 2 crustaceans
(315598).

Jewel Tunnel Imports (through Rock H. Currier): 1 krennerite, Fiji Islands
(310189).

Johns Hopkins University (through Dr. John R. Oppenheimer) : 15,002 insects,
Asia (315208).

Kansas State University (through Dr. T. M. Barkley): 40 plants (314196).

Kenyatta University College, Kenya (through K. W. Turgeon): 4 crustaceans
(310436).

Kerckhoff Marine Laboratory (through Dr. John S. Pearse): 72+ crustaceans,
Egypt (276106).

Kihard Institute for Biological Research, Japan (through Dr. Hiroski Hatta) :
11 plants (311568).

Kobe University, Japan (through Dr. Tikahiko Naito): 61 sawflies (314789,
316155, exchanges).

Kyoto University, Japan (through Gen Murata): 150 ferns and phanerogams
(313598, exchange).

Kyushu University, Japan (through Dr. Keiji Baba): 12 crustaceans (311551).

Laboratorio di Technologia della Pesca, Italy (through Carlo Froglio) : 92
crustaceans (314402); (through Carlo Froglio and partially collected by
Smithsonian personnel) : 229 echinoderms, 151 worms, 5 brachiopods,
4,866+ crustaceans, 212 mollusks (312186).

Laboratorios de Botanica Lorenzo R. Parodi, Argentina (through Dr. Elisa
Nicora): 1 bamboo (311145).

Laredo Police Department, Texas (through W. V. Weeks): 1 lot human
skeletal remains (316538).

Leeds, University of, Great Britain (through Dr. John Grahame): 4 crustaceans
(315151); (through W. A. Sledge): 7 ferns (312266).

Longwood Gardens (through Dr. Donald G. Huttleston): 5 plants (312291).

Las Cruces Tropical Botanical garden and field station, Costa Rica (through
Bruce W. McAlpin): 142 ferns (315801).

Los Angeles County Museum (through Dr. James H. McLean): 3 marine
mollusks (311520); (through Abigail Roseman): 15 scarab beetles (313896) ;
(through Roy R. Snelling): 18 ants (313331); (through Gale G. Sphon):

1 marine mollusk (310468).

Louisiana State University (through Dr. Raymond W. Bouchard): 7 crayfish

(309419).

Appendix 13. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 535
Lyko Mineral and Gem, Inc. (through Jack R. Young): 61 minerals (310443,
310988, 311313, 313073, 315176, exchanges) ; 13 minerals (311954, 312464,
313443).

Maine, University of (through John Dearborn): 9 echinoderms, Greenland
(313619).

Maine Department of Inland Fisheries and Game (through Dr. Philip S.
Andrews): 75 crustaceans (292993); (through Dr. Donald F. Mairs): 115
crustaceans (274877).

Malaya, University of (through Dr. Benjamin C. Stone): 3 plants (311601,
exchange).

Manazuru Marine Biological Laboratory, Japan (through Dr. Hiroshi Suzuki):
2 crustaceans, 1 slide (310187).

Marie Selby Botanical Gardens: 77 plants (311593).

Marine Biomedical Institute (through Dr. Ned E. Strenth): 12 crustaceans
(315923).

Marine Research Foundation (through Dr. Richard H. Chesher): 1 echinoderm,
Barbados (313181).

Massachusetts, University of: Herbarium (through Dr. Albert C. Smith):

4 plants (310342).

Max-Planck Institut fur Limnologie, Germany (through Dr. Peter Havelka):
18 biting midges (316320).

McGill University, Canada (through Dr. Ken Able): 16 fish (314473).

Miami, University of (through Martha B. Meagher) : 3,200 plants (310337) ;
(through Dr. Oscar T. Owre): 1 bird skin (312641, exchange). School of
Marine and Atmospheric Science (through Larry Abele): 491+ crustaceans
(296573); (through Dr. Frederick M. Bayer): 461 crustaceans (267410); 53
echinoderms (312749); 3 marine mollusks (314028); (through Phillip
Heemstra): 6 crustaceans (294928); (through Barbara S. Mayo): 144
crustaceans (311209); (through Dr. Patricia A. McLaughlin) : 169+
crustaceans (306092, 306709, 311232, 312585); 1 marine mollusk (311283);
(through Dr. A. H. Provenzano): 75 crustaceans (256552); (through Dr. C.
R. Robins): 1 fish (308429); (through Dr. Gilbert L. Voss): 6 crustaceans
(267897); 9,200+ echinoderms (296540).

Michigan, University of: Museum of Zoology (through Dr. Robert R. Miller) :
66 crustaceans (282944); 10 freshwater mollusks, 757+ crustaceans (311357) ;
3 fish (314752).

Minerals and Gems: 3 lots minerals (312189).

Minnesota, University of (through Dr. Edwin F. Cook): 2 wasps (313897,
exchange).

Mississippi State University (through Dr. Glenn H. Clemmer): 6 insects,
451+ crustaceans (314022).

Missouri Botanical Garden (through Dr. Thomas B. Croat): 144 plants
(311576, 311651, 312832, 312864, 314216, 314909) ; 289 plants (312830,
314181, exchanges).

Missouri, University of (through Dr. Richard J. Gentile): 3 invertebrate fossils
(311715).

Modena, University of, Italy (through Dr. E. Gallitelli): 35 brachiopods
(316024, exchange).

Moorhead State College (through Dr. Oscar W. Johnson): 2 bird skins, 1 bird
mummy, Eniwetok (315103).

Moscow, State University of, USSR (through Dr. L. I. Fedoseeva) : 38 flies
(313694, exchange).

Museo Nacional de Historia Natural, Chile (through Dr. Maria Codoceo): 21
mollusks (313648).

Museo Nacional de Historia Natural, Uruguay (through Dr. Miguel A.
Klappenbach): 65 marine mollusks (311427, exchange).

Museum National D’Histoire Naturelle, France (through N. Halle): 43 grasses

536 / Smithsonian Year 1975
(314881, exchange); (through Dr. J. C. Hureau): 2 crustaceans (315927);
(through Dr. Dominique Y. Jerome): 1 meteorite (306073, exchange) ;
(through Dr. Christian Jouanin): 2 bird skins (310101, exchange); 160
plants (311589, gift-exchange) ; (through J. F. Leroy): 41 plants (312787,
exchange) ; (through Dr. R. Letouzey): 14 plants (311636); (through Alicia
Lourteig) : 59 plants (312794, gift-exchange).

Nairobi, University of, Kenya (through Dr. J. C. Hillman): 3 isopods (311073).

Natal Museum, South Africa (through R. M. Kilburn): 20 mollusks (310567).

National Institute of Oceanography, Great Britain (through Dr. Peter Foxton):
7 crustaceans (294817).

National Museum, Philippines (through Hermes G. Gutierrez): 177 plants
(312829).

National Museum of Natural Sciences, Canada (through J. M. Gillett): 50
plants (314947, exchange).

National Museum of New Zealand (through Dr. Logan Hudson): 6 beetles
(310964, exchange).

National Museum of Victoria, Australia (through Dr. Arthur Neboiss) : 14
crayfish (273952, exchange).

National Science Museum, Japan (through Dr. 7 Nakane): 2 water beetles
(316278, exchange); (through Dr. Shun-Ichi Ueno): 1 water beetle (316275,
exchange); (through Dr. Akiro Kato and S. Matsubara): 4 minerals (311941).

National Taiwan University (through Dr. Sze-Jih Hsu): 29 sawflies (312906,
exchange).

National University de La Plata, Argentina (through Dr. R. C. Whatley):

35 ostracods on 1 slide (301151).

Naturhistoriska Riksmuseet, Sweden: 332 plants (312828, exchange).

Nebraska Game and Parks Commission (through D. B. McCarraher) : 250+
copepods (299206).

New Mexico, University of (through Dr. Klaus Keil): 1 meteorite (312031,
exchange).

New Mexico State University (through Dr. Richard Spellenberg) : 162 plants
(309180, 312325, exchanges).

New South Wales, University of, Australia (through Charles Pregenzer) :

5 crustaceans (313274).

New York Botanical Garden (through Dr. Patricia K. Holmgren): 775 plants
(308662, 313557, gift-exchanges) ; 378 plants (310339, 311178, 314228,
314232); 1,255 plants (311655, 314248, 314927, exchanges).

New Zealand Department of Scientific and Industrial Research (through Dr.
Janet Bradfor): 4 copepods, 2 slides (291952).

Newark Museum (through Kenneth L. Gosner) : 172 crustaceans (279465).

Newcastle Upon Tyne, University of, Great Britain (through Dr. John Allen):
8 crustaceans, Canary Island (312751).

North Carolina State University (through Dr. James W. Hardin): 51 plants
(311617, exchange); (through Dr. Clyde F. Smith): 18 aphid slides (311362,
exchange).

North Carolina, University of (through Dr. J. F. Matthews): 18 plants (310344);
(through Dr. Edward F. Menhinick): 3 fish (309440). Institute of Fisheries
Research (through Dr. Frank J. Schwartz): 15 crayfish (313914); (through
Dr. Austin B. Williams): 2,015-+ crustaceans (310561, 313797).

Northeast Louisiana University (through R. Dale Thomas): 130 plants (314230).

Northern Arizona University (through Dr. C. D. Johnson): 184 seed beetles
(312702, 316058).

Northern Illinois University (through Dr. David W. Greenfield) : 5 fish,
British Honduras (309327).

Northern Iowa, University of (through Dr. Nixon Wilson): 53+ crustaceans
(312594).

Office de la Recherche Scientifique et Technique Outre-Mer, France: French

Appendix 13. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 537
Guiana: 5 plants (311109); 4 araceae (311173); (through Dr. J. J.
deGranville): 10 plants (310320); (through J. P. Lescure): 29 plants (311160).
Madagascar (through Dr. Alain Crosnier): 5 crustaceans (312202); 20
crayfish, 5+ worms (316000).

Ohio Department of Health (through Dr. Richard L. Berry): 9 mosquitoes
(316287).

Oklahoma, University of (through Dr. Jeffrey H. Black): 19 crayfish (293911).

Old Dominion University (through Dr. John R. Holsinger): 33 crustaceans,

1 slide (312103, 313110).

Oregon, University of (through Sylvia Behrens): 17 marine mollusks (310990).

Oregon State University (through Pongthep Akratanakul): 2 honey bees
(316056); (through Dr. N. H. Anderson): 20 caddisflies (313337); (through
Kenton L. Chambers): 100 plants (312833, exchange); (through Earl E.
Krygier): 23+ crustaceans (312431); (through Dr. John C. McCain): 3
crustaceans (279430); (through Gary L. Peters): 15 beetles (313285,
exchange); (through Dr. William E. Stout): 35 crustaceans (279466, 290551);
(through Patricia Tester): 50+ crustaceans (313665); (through David R.
Voth): 4 crustaceans (292348).

Otago, University of, New Zealand (through Dr. Betty J. Batham): 19+
echinoderms (295864, 297794).

Pacific Bio-Marine Supply Co. (through R. C. Fay): 4+ echinoderms (305462).

Pacific, University of the (through Dr. William B. Gladfelter): 5 crustaceans
(305250).

Pala Properties International, Inc. (through William Larson): 5 minerals
(310148, 313076, 315177); 15 minerals (308801, 313981, exchanges).

Palermo Mine Enterprises (through Forest F. Fogg): 1 strunzite (313757) ;
(through Robert Whitmore): 3 minerals (315182).

Panama, University of (through Juan B. Del Rosario): 19 marine mollusks
(308340).

Papua and New Guinea Department of Forests: 444 plants (311598, 314252);
134 plants (314951, exchange).

Plant Protection Research Institute, South Africa (through Dr. Yair Ben-Dov):
11 armored scale slides (311894, 314050); 5 scales (312006).

Plumbago Mining Corp. (through Dean McCrillis): 2 minerals (311932,
311937).

Postal Service, U.S. (through E. H. Rapee): 1 marine mollusk (306531).

Puerto Rico, University of (through Luis R. Almodover): 89 algae (314222,
exchange); (through Dr. Carlos J. Carrera): 4 echinoderms (303634) ;
(through Ron J. Larson): 120+ crustaceans (311930); (through Jorge
Rivera-Lopez): 3 crustaceans (270230).

Purdue University (see Donors to the National Collections, Individuals:
Montgomery, Dr. B. E.).

Queensland Herbarium, Australia: 117 plants (314197, exchange); (through
L. Pedley): 49 plants (305019, exchange).

Rancho Santa Ana Botanic Garden: 212 plants (310372).

Rider College (through Dr. Mervin Kontrovitz): 17 crustacean slides (314401).

Rijksmuseum van Natuurlijke Historie, The Netherlands (through Dr. L. B.
Holthuis) : 23 crustaceans (306038).

Rijksuniversiteit te Utrecht, The Netherlands: 145 plants (312848, 312849,
314256); (through Dr. Hans de Bruijn): 3 fossil mammal casts (315023);
(through Antoine M. Cleef): 69 plants (314943); (through Dr. Paul J. Maas):
43 plants (311142, gift-exchange).

Riyadh, University of, Saudi Arabia (through Iyad A. Nader): 2 crustaceans
(311522).

Royal Botanic Garden, Scotland: 3,700 plants (305571, 312239, exchanges).

Royal Botanic Gardens, Australia: 109 plants (312827, exchange).

538 / Smithsonian Year 1975
Royal Botanic Gardens, Great Britain: 480 plants (310319, 311594, 312842,
313570, 314945, 314952, exchanges) ; (through Dr. P. Green): 70 plants
(305573, exchange); (through R. M. Harley): 15 plants (314885).

Ruder Boskovic Institute, Yugoslavia (through Dr. Zdravko Stevcic): 2
bryozoans (306781).

St. Joseph’s College, India (through Dr. Cecil J. Saldanha): 2 vials plants
(310329).

St. Lucia Research and Control Department (through Guy Barnish): 35
crustaceans (301895, 304428).

Salisbury Zoo (through Stefan H. Graham): 1 mammal (316642).

San Antonio Zoological Park and Aquarium (through Dr. Clyde Jones):

1 mammal (316640).

San Diego Zoological Gardens (through Dr. Clyde Hill): 13 mammals (313044).

Savannah Science Museum (through Gerald K. Williamson): 175+ crayfish
(293941).

Sea Life Park (through Edward Schallenberger) : 2 dolphins (316807).

Southhampton Paleontology Club (through R. F. Correia): 1 partial fossil
whale skull (315981).

South Carolina, University of: Institute for Marine Biology and Coastal
Research (through Dr. Bruce C. Coull): 30 copepods (311842); (through
William Lang): 6 crustaceans (314763).

South Carolina Marine Resources Research Institute (through Dr. Frank W.
Stapor, Jr.): 1 rock (314812).

South Carolina Wildlife and Marine Resources Department (through David
M. Cupka): 10 copepods (309713).

South Florida, University of (through Dr. Robert W. Long): 5 ferns (310391) ;
(through Dr. Richard Wunderlin) : 21 plants (315814).

Southeastern State University (through Dr. John Taylor): 1 algae (312768).

Southern California, University of: Allan Hancock Foundation (through Dr.
Robert R. Given): 1 holothurian (293332); (through Mary K. Wicksten) :
14 amphipods (312528). Los Angeles Campus (through Dilworth W.
Chamberlain) : 10 crustaceans (310862); (through Dr. Robert L. Fleisher) :
95 foraminifera slides (311456).

Southern Mississippi, University of (through R. Danny Weaver): 5 crustaceans
(310863).

Southern State College (through Dr. Henry W. Robison): 479+ crustaceans
(311231); 1,615+ crustaceans, 1 worm (311860).

Southwest Research Institute (through James H. Baker): 8 ostracodes, 8 slides
(313766).

State, U. S. Department of (through Jane A. Guilbault): the Humphrey
diamond (313080) ; (through John M. Thomas): 21 marine mollusks (311748).

Staten Island Community College (through Dr. Joseph Vagvolgyi): 10
amphipods, Galapagos Islands (311017).

Station de Recherches de Zoologie, Guadeloupe (through Dr. M. F.
Chalumeau): 5 beetles (315201, exchange).

Sul Ross State University (through A. M. Powell): 34 plants (313523).

Summer Institute of Linguistics: 46 ethnological items, Ecuador (313670).

Tel-Aviv University (through Dr. Al Barash) : 39 cephalopods (286809) ;
(through Dr. Dan Gerling): 25 bees (315237).

Teledyne: Brown Engineering (through Robert H. Strickler): 17 crustaceans
(313447).

Tennessee, University of (through Dr. Otto C. Kopp): 1 vial corrensite-bearing
shale (313135).

Tennessee Department of Public Health (through Rick Sinclair): 1 crustacean
(309526).

Appendix 13. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 539
Texas, University of (through Dr. James E. Blankenship): 2 marine mollusks
(312515).

Texas A & I University (through Dr. Jack A. Rickner): 5 crustaceans (311755,
314721).

Texas A & M University (through Rob Abbott): 3 echinoderms (311317);
(through Donald E. Harper, Jr.) : 27 isopods (310067) ; (through Dr. R. R.
Murray): 49 tiger beetles (312551, exchange): (through Dr. Taisoo Park):
30 crustaceans (312492).

Texas Christian University (through Dr. Joseph C. Britton): 1 crustacean
(313244).

Texas Speleological Survey (through James Reddell) : 3 isopods, Mexico
(259730).

Tokyo, University of, Japan (through Hiroyoshi Ohashi): 113 plants (312819,
exchange); (through Dr. M. Omori): 13 crustaceans (312098).

Treasury, U.S. Department of the: Bureau of Customs: 2 chests, wall panels,
screens, 2 gem trees (307840); 21 serpentine carvings (311939); 1 pair
wooden shelf cabinets, Japan (313309).

Tulane University (through Dr. Royal B. Sutkus): 20 fish (314718); (through
Dr. Emily H. Vokes): 24 fossil invertebrates (315044).

Tulsa, University of (through Dr. Albert P. Blair): 2 crayfish (305421).

Tuskegee Institute (through Dr. James D. Williams) : 134 crayfish, Alabama
(310233).

Ukrainian Academy of Sciences, USSR (through Vassily P. Pegueta): 59 fishes
(312501, exchange).

Universidad Central de Venezuela (through Victor M. Badillo): 2 plants
(314250).

Universidad Nacional de Colombia (through Enrique Forero): 1 compositae
(312799).

Universidad de los Andes, Venezuela (through Santiago Lopez-Palacios) : 16
plants (314917); (through Dr. L. Ruiz Teran): 63 plants (313579).

Universidad de Oriente, Venezuela (through Dr. Aljadys Gonzalez) : 12
marine mollusks, 1 crustacean (313802).

Universidad Nacional del Nordeste, Argentina (through Antonio Krapovickas) :
73 plants (312816, gift-exchange) ; 73 plants (312817); (through Dr. Camilo
L. Quarin): 89 plants (310357).

Universidad Nacional Mayor de San Marcos, Peru (through Berta Herrera
de Loja): 8 plants (314266).

Universidade de Sao Paulo, Brazil (through Dr. Tagea K. S. Bjoinberg) : 2
copepods (310529); (through Dr. Luiz Roberto Tommasi): 11+ sponges
(295301).

Universidade do Brazil (through Dr. Helmut Sick and William Belton): 1
Arctic bird skin (310203, exchange).

Universidade do Parana, Brazil (through Pe. J. S. Moure): 6 beetles (312675).

Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro, Brazil (through Paulo Occhioni) :
433 plants (314193, 314214, 314937).

Universita di Messina, Italy (through Pietro Crisafi) : 59 copepods (293277).

Universita di Torino, Italy (through Dr. Pietro Passerin d’Entreves) : 2 small
moths (314055, exchange); (through Dr. M. Zunino): 50 dung beetles
(312337, exchange). Instituto Botanico: 3 plant photographs (311163).

Universitat Basel, Switzerland (through T. Reichstein): 5 plants (310389,
313543).

Universitat Heidelberg, Germany (through Dr. W. Rauh): 46 plants, South
America (314201).

Universite de Paris, France: 2 minerals (312894, exchange); (through Dr.
Pierre Bariand): 1 vanadinite (296221, exchange); (through Marie-Claude
Gullaumxe): 3 crustaceans (312356).

540 / Smithsonian Year 1975
Universite des Sciences et Techniques du Languedoc, France (through J. P.
Quignard) : 368 crustaceans (315290).

Universiteit van Amsterdam, The Netherlands (through Drs. J. H. Stock and
S. Pinkster): 2,036+ crustaceans (289522, exchange); (through Dr. R. W. M.
van Soest): 5 echinoderms (314769).

Universitetet I Bergen, Norway (through Dr. Torliev Brattegard) : 55
crustaceans, 55 slides (312529).

Universitetets, Denmark: Geologiske Instituter og Mineralogisk Museum
(through Dr. Niels Hald): 2 gneiss specimens (305731, exchange).

University College, Ireland (through Dr. L. N. Gupta): 2 granite specimens,

2 granite thin sections, 1 lot mica chips (313006).

University College London, Great Britain (through Dr. Eric Robinson):
2 ostracod slides (313246).

University College Swansea, Great Britain (through Dr. A. A. Myers): 2
amphipods (275981).

University for Agriculture, the Netherlands (through J. de Bruijn): 88 plants,
Venezuela (309230).

Ustredni Ustav Geologicky, Czechoslovakia (through Dr. Vladimir Havlicek) :
100 brachiopods (310923, exchange).

Utah, University of (through A. R. Farr): 14 plants (313604, gift-exchange).

Ute Mountain Gem and Mineral Society (through Regina L. Brewer): 15
dinosaur bone cabochons (313749).

Vanderbilt University (through Dr. James J. Friauf): 17 crustacean slides
(311071). Herbarium (through Robert Kral): 129 plants (311180, exchange).

Velco Importers (through G. J. Velick): 10 Bromeliaceae (314276, 314277,
314278, 314279).

Victoria University of Wellington, New Zealand (through Dr. J. A. F. Garrick):
46 fishes (312460).

Virginia Commonwealth University (through Arthur J. Seidenberg): 25
isopods (283228).

Virginia Institute of Marine Science (through Dr. John Kraeuter) : 2
crustaceans (314133); (through Dr. Jack Musick): 72 worms (314690) ;
(through Dr. Franklin D. Ott): 78 algae (314224); (through Robert W.
Virnstein) : 40+ polychaetes (312632).

Virginia State Library (through Dr. C. G. Holland): 2 lots human skeletal
remains (316541); (through Col. Howard A. MacCord): 20 lots human
skeletal remains (316301, 316542).

Washington, University of (through Gayle A. Heron): 508 crustaceans
(310221); (through Dr. Paul Illg): 15 crustaceans (294572); (through Arthur
E. Siebert, Jr.): 4+ sea anemones (305293).

Washington State University (through Martin Harris): 9 copepods (313396).

Western Australian Museum (through Clay Bryce): 31 marine mollusks
(316098, exchange); (through Dr. L. E. Koch): 1 crustacean (311843,
exchange).

West Virginia University (through Howard W. Hoffman): 75+ crustaceans
(310528).

Wisconsin, University of: Herbarium: 233 plants (313541, exchange); (through
Dr. Hugh Iltis): 48 plants (312815, 314884).

Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution (through Susan P. Garner) : 500+
crustaceans (315706); (through Dr. George D. Grice): 4 crustaceans (315707);
(through Dr. Richard L. Haedrich) : 1,066+ crustaceans (312671); (through
Dr. Robert R. Hessler) ; 29 crustaceans, 16 slides (280697); (through Dr.
Gilbert Rowe): 11+ echinoderms (313777); (through Mrs. Amelie
Scheltema): 5 marine mollusks (315521).

Yerkes Regional Primate Research Center (through Dr. Geoffrey H. Bourne) :
2 chimpanzees (316033).

Appendix 13. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 541
Zoological Survey of India (through Dr. G. Ramakrishna) : 39 crustaceans
(303869, exchange).

SMITHSONIAN TROPICAL RESEARCH INSTITUTE

Donors of Financial Support

George Becker Fund No. 145060: $10,000

Henry and Grace Doherty Charitable Foundation: 10,000
Edward John Noble Foundation: 15,000

Mr. Don Lee Johnson: 100

Kodak Research Laboratories: 1,500

HISTORY AND ART

ARCHIVES OF AMERICAN ART

Donors of Financial Support
$10,000

The Brown Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. Howard W. Lipman
Matilda R. Wilson Fund

$5,000

Mrs. Edsel Ford

Samuel H. Kress Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. William L. Richards
Mr. Charles Simon

$1,000

Dr. and Mrs. Arthur Bloom

The Bundy Foundation

Dr. and Mrs. I. F. Burton

Mrs. Adolph Coors III

Dr. and Mrs. Burrill Crohn

Mr. and Mrs. Henry H. Dewar
Mr. and Mrs. Joel S. Ehrenkranz
Mr. and Mrs. Benson Ford

Mr. and Mrs. Walter B. Ford II

$500

Mrs. George Berger

Mrs. Rosalie Berkowitz
Mrs. Henry T. Bodman

Mrs. Mildred H. Cummings
Mrs. Harvin Denman

Mrs. George R. Fink

Mrs. L. Carrington Fitzsimons
Mrs. Vernes F. Grafstrom
Mr. Harold Grove

Edith G. Halpert Foundation
Ms. Maxine Harrison

Mrs. Joe Higgins

542 / Smithsonian Year 1975

The Gilman Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. John Davis Hatch
Mrs. Percy C. Madeira, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Dan Oppenheimer
Mr. and Mrs. Alger Shelden
Mr. and Mrs. Mark Stevens

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Weinstein
Mr. and Mrs. Robert Zell

Mr. Carleton Howe

Mrs. J. Stuart Hudson
Mr. Gilbert H. Kinney
Mrs. Hannan Kraft

Mrs. Leonard Levine

Mrs. Stanley K. Levison
Mr. Earle Ludgin

Mr. Joshua Lincoln Mack
Mrs. William Barton Marsh
Mrs. C. Macculloch Miller
Mrs. E. Bliss Parkinson
Mrs. H. Darby Perry
Mr. David Pleydell-Bouverie
Mrs. Dorothy H. Rautbord

Mrs. Edwin M. Rosenthal, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Schoenith
Mrs. Sidney L. Schwarz

Mrs. A. A. Seeligson

Mrs. Tom Shartle

Mrs. Joseph Sherer

Mrs. Otto L. Spaeth

Mrs. Jay Sternberg

Mr. Bradley C. Streeter
Mrs. Robert Ready Williams

COOPER-HEWITT MUSEUM OF DECORATIVE ARTS AND DESIGN

Donors of Financial Support ($500 and Over)

American Express Foundation

The Chase Manhattan Bank

Mrs. Allerton Cushman

Elsie De Wolfe Foundation

The Estate of Calvin Hathaway

Mrs. Enid A. Haupt

Henry J. Heinz II

Mrs. and Mrs. James Stewart Hooker
Irving One Wall Street
McGraw-Hill, Inc.

Donors of Works of Art

Mr. and Mrs. Abraham Adler

John Winthrop Aldrich

The Honorable Walter H. Annenberg

Antiquarian Landmarks Society Inc.
of Connecticut

Kay Atwood

Mrs. George F. Baker

Mr. Will Barnet

Miss Alice Baldwin Beer

Vojtech Blau

Lillian Block

Boris Kroll

Mr. I. Townsend Burden, Jr.

Bonnie Cashin

Mrs. John Carver

Clarence House

Cooper-Hewitt Collection

Harrison Cultra

Mrs. Peter Cusick

Mrs. H. P. Davison

Mrs. Elaine Dee

Hope and Linker Delafield

Mr. Donald Deskey

Ed Polk Douglas

Mr. Roy Fisher

Mr. and Mrs. Roy Frangiamore

Friends of Drawings and Prints

Friends of Textiles

Mrs. Benjamin Ginsburg

Mr. and Mrs. Hugh J. Grant

Michael J. W. Green

Mrs. R. H. Haldeman

Mrs. John L. Handy, Jr.

Thomas Mellon Evans

Mrs. Margaret Carnegie Miller
Mobil Foundation

National Endowment for the Arts
New York State Council on the Arts
Mrs. Lucille Lortel Schweitzer
Seamen’s Bank of Savings

Stroheim & Romann

Bertrand L. Taylor III

John B. Trevor, Jr.

Mrs. Frances Head

Ed Held

Mr. and Mrs. Rodman A. Heeren

Rohi-Marga Hielle-Vatter

Bequest of Hugo Hilgendorf

Historical Society of Cheshire
County, New Hampshire

Mrs. Curtice Hitchock

Professor and Mrs. H. W. Janson

Miss Mildred Jay

J. Stewart Johnson

Edward Kallop

Mr. Robert Kaufmann

John Kisek

Mrs. Richard S. Koehne

Katherine Kosmak

Mrs. William F. Lamb

Dorothy Lieberman, M.D.

Simon Lissim

Mrs. William H. Mathers

Mr. John Maximus

Mayorcas Bros., Inc.

McMillen Inc.

Robert B. McTaggart

Elinor Merrell

Mrs. Richard Merrill

Mrs. H. K. Morse

Mrs. Gillian MacBain Moss

Mrs. Edward L. Nesbitt

Charles C. Patterson

J. Van Ness Philip

Mary Walker Phillips

James Prestini

Appendix 13. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 543
Donors of Works of Art—Cont.
Mrs. Jacqueline Rea—In memory of Mrs. Corlies Smith

Dr. Robert Roux-Delimal Miss Lyn Ely and Mrs. Gregory Smith
Joseph Verner Reed, Jr. Standard Coated Products
Isabel Scott Fabrics Corp. Francis Steegmuller
Mr. and Mrs. Germain Seligman Mrs. Richard Stein
Alma T. Selkirk Mrs. Arthur H. Sulzberger
Mrs. T. R. Shepherd Mrs. John B. Trevor, Jr.
Mrs. Isabel Shults Mrs. Arthur W. Ufland
Mrs. Celia Siegel Boras Wafveri
Mrs. Selig J. Silverman Mrs. Clara Waldeck
Mrs. C. Reginald Smith Mrs. Orme Wilson

Donors to Pictorial Reference Library

Mr. Edward Kallop
Mr. John Maximus

FREER GALLERY OF ART

Donors of Financial Support

Edith Ehrman (Lewco Securities Corporation)

Mary Livingston Griggs, and Mary Griggs Burke Foundation
Mr. John K. Havemeyer

Imperial Embassy of Iran

Weatherhead Foundation

Ellen Bayard Weedon Foundation

Donors to the Study Collection

Chase, W. Thomas, III: Bronze shell casing from the Civil War era.

Frasché, Dean: Copy of physiographic diagram of Asia.

Gitter, Kurt: Japanese calligraphy by Mokuan (d. ca.1348).

Helms, Cynthia: Shards from Iran.

Iran: Two movie reels (from Persepolis) of the celebration of the 2500th
Anniversary of the Founding of the Persian Empire.

Klein, Leonard: Album of Chinese paintings; Ch’ing dynasty, mid-17th
century; by Sun Huang.

Pope, John A: Shards from Japan.

Rothchild, Louis S.: Chinese celadon bowl; Ming dynasty, A.D. 1368-1644.

HILLWOOD

Donors to the Collections

Dr. and Mrs. Joseph Sataloff of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania: large silver
candlestick (weight circa fifty pounds), which had been presented by
Tsarina Catherine I to the Holy Synod in the Kremlin, Moscow, in 1726.

Mr. Alexander B. Klotz of New York, New York: important bed in mahogany,
decorated lavishly with ormolu, and said to have been given by the French
to Tsar Alexander I of Russia.

Miss Alice Dodge of Washington, D. C.: large and rare gold medallion (22
carats) struck for the coronation of Alexander III in 1883.

Mrs. Cecilia von Rath of Washington, D. C.: several books in fine 18th
century bindings.

Mrs. Augustus Riggs IV of Woodbine, Maryland: a group of table linens and

544 / Smithsonian Year 1975
laces, a group of silver table ornaments, and a group of important Russian

and French porcelains.

Madame Léon Barzin of Paris, France: a group of silver table ornaments and
a collection of 18th- and 19th-century table glass.

HIRSHHORN MUSEUM AND SCULPTURE GARDEN

Donors of Financial Support

Security Storage Company: $5,000 for leaflets

Donors of Works of Art

Joseph H. Hirshhorn

Raphael Soyer, New York

Abraham Schneider, New York, N.Y.

Frederick R. Weisman, Century City,
California

Nathaly Baum, Washington, D.C.

Gene Davis, Washington, D.C.

Dr. Richard Schoenfeld, Bethesda,
Maryland

William King, New York, N.Y.

Vera List (Parasol Press)

NATIONAL COLLECTION OF FINE ARTS

Donors of Financial Support

Thomas C. Howe

Mrs. Jaquelin H. Hume
Mobil Oil Corporation
Phelps-Dodge Corporation

Donors to the Collection

Joseph Alsop

Mr. and Mrs. David Anderson
in memory of Martha Jackson

Anonymous

Anonymous Donation in Memory of
Peter Deitsch

Theodore Arneson

Irene H. Aronson

Mr. and Mrs. James Bama

Barnard Family

Gene Baro

Mr. and Mrs. Nat Bass

Mrs. Nathaly Baum

David Bourdon

Mrs. Adelyn D. Breeskin

Dr. and Mrs. Jack H. U. Brown

Mrs. Ernest R. Bryan

Mr. and Mrs. William Bulkeley

Mrs. Barbara Christianson

Jo Ann Clark

Cooper-Hewitt Museum

Allyn Cox

Mr. Warren E. Cox

Agnes Denes

Mrs. Gertrude Dennis

Edgar Douglass

Werner Drewes

Charles Sawyer
George B. Tatum
Otto Wittmann

Mrs. Rebecca Eisenberg

Harriet S. Eklund

Joe M. Erdelac

Stuart Feld

Dr. and Mrs. Theodore Fields
James Forbes

Polly Friedlander

Aline Fruhauf

General Services Administration
Edward Glannon

Joseph Goldberg

Mr. and Mrs. Murray Goldsborough
Richard Wallach Goldthwaite
Robert Gordy

Dr. and Mrs. Christopher A. Graf
David S. Greenbaum

Margaret Arnold Griffith

Edith Gregor Halpert Foundation
Mrs. Helen McKinsey Herzbrun
Peter Hill

Theo Hios

Bess Hormats

William Page Howell

Richard Stockton Howell

Mr. and Mrs, Edgar G. Hubert
Mr. and Mrs. Wyatt Jacobs
Edwin Janss, Jr.

Appendix 13. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 545
Donors to the Collection—Cont.

Mrs. Carlyle Jones

Mr. and Mrs. Jacob Kainen
Louis and Annette Kaufman
Eugene Larkin

James Lechay

Sami and Ralph Logan

Mrs. Walter Loucheim

Dr. Frank McClure

Dr. and Mrs. Frederick P. Nause
Mrs. Jefferson Patterson
Mrs. Elizabeth Shafer

Society of Washington Printmakers

Mr. William M. Speiller
Miss Laura Sterns

Mrs. Corrin Strong

Mrs. Frederick Thompson

Mrs. C. B. McDonald

Aston Magna Foundation for Music
Roderick Mead

Julian de Miskey

Claudia de Monte

Mrs. Bruce Moore

Mr. H. Marc Moyens

Mrs. Pauline Natti

Mark Tobey

Mrs. Pierson Underwood
Mrs. Wagner-Barwig

Richard Guy Walton
Washington Printmakers, Inc.
Moune G. H. Webster
Zabriskie Gallery

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF HISTORY AND TECHNOLOGY

Donors of Financial Support
DIVISION OF CERAMICS AND GLASS
Mr. and Mrs. John Mayer

DIVISION OF ELECTRICITY
Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers

DIVISION OF MILITARY HISTORY, LECTURE

PROGRAM
American Society of Arms Collectors Dr. A. Lewis Katzowitz
Mr. Clay Bedford Mr. Herbert G. Ratner, Jr.
Mr. Frank E. Bivens, Jr. Dr. Walter A. Stryker
Mr. John C. Chalapis

DIVISION OF NUMISMATICS

Bass Foundation
Sidney Printing and Publishing Company

DIVISION OF POSTAL HISTORY

Mr. S. N. Sure
Mr. and Mrs. Milton Turner

DOUBLEDAY LECTURE SERIES
Doubleday & Company, Inc.

FRIENDS OF MUSIC

(*Ward Hamilton Memorial)
Mr. and Mrs. Samuel A. Adams*
Mrs. Elaine Albright
Mrs. John W. Auchincloss
Miss Alice M. Bertrand
Miss Marion H. Bickel
Mrs. Percy W. Brown
Mrs. Howard F. Burns
Mrs. V. Betton Burton
Mrs. Russell Burwell

Mrs. Jack McCullar Callaway
Mrs. Page P. A. Chesser

Mr. and Mrs. Edward C. Childs
Mr. Timothy W. Childs

Mr. and Mrs. Arthur H. Clarke
Mrs. Thomas K. Cline

Mr. and Mrs. John J. Cohen
Mrs. Alex Crawford

Mrs. William H. Crocker

546 / Smithsonian Year 1975
Miss Jan Cummings Mrs. William A. McAfee

Mrs. Clifton Daniel Mrs. Lillian S. McLeod

Mrs. M. H. Dunlap Mrs. Constance Loudon Mellen
Reverend Simon P. Eccard Mrs. Stephen V. C. Morris

Mr. and Mrs. H. Eiser Miss Mary C. O’Connor

Mrs. Elinore Engelberg Mrs. Claiborne Pell

Miss Allice Eppink Mrs. William Wood Prince

Mrs. William Rodman Fay Dr. Lawrence J. Radice

Miss Florence G. Fleishman Miss Maryan E. Reynolds

Miss Marguerite E. Fowle Dr. and Mrs. George S. Robinson, Jr.*
Ms. Alice Marie Fox Mr. and Mrs. Sidney L. Schiro
Mr. Paul E. Geier Mr. and Mrs. Carl H. Schlapp
Miss Mary Jane Gibson Miss Shelia A. Schlawin

Mrs. Isabella Grandin* Mrs. Edmund M. Sheppard

Mr. and Mrs. Richard E. Greaves Dr. Joan K. Short

Mr. M. D. Guinness Mr. and Mrs. Milton Shurr

Mrs. Peggy C. Hadley Mr. and Mrs. Claire Kendal Smith
Mr. and Mrs. G. E. Hall Miss Grace R. Smith

Mr. Andrew Hamilton* Mrs. Henry P. Smith III

Mr. and Mrs. John Andrew Hamilton* Mr. W. N. Harrell Smith

Dr. and Mrs. Carl Hammer Mr. and Mrs. William Whitfield Smith
Mr. and Mrs. William E. Harvey Mrs. James W. Sole

Mr. and Mrs. Milton Herman Mr. Davidson Sommers

Mrs. Chrales E. Hewitt, Jr. Mr. Ronald L. Stockham, Esq.
Mrs. Marie Herz Miss Mildred F. Stone

Miss Virginia R. Hoff Ms. Jane C. Sylvester*

Mr. Christian C. Hohenlohe* Miss Hester Thomasson

Captain Edwin E. Johnson Mr. and Mrs. William C. Treuhaft
Miss Lenore Kelly Mrs. Bronson Tweedy

Mr. and Mrs. Peter D. Knowles Dr. and Mrs. C. F. Tyner

Mr. Rainer K. Kraus* Miss Elizabeth Vernlund

Mr. David Lloyd Kreeger Mrs. Lindsley M. Washburn

Miss Helen Levy Mrs. Bradford S. Wellman

Ms. Rosalind V. Mainelli Mrs. Louis D. Wile

Miss Isabel Marting Mr. Herman Wouk

Dr. John Russell Mason Mr. and Mrs. Lawson Withers

HALL OF AMERICAN MARITIME ENTERPRISE

Arthur-Smith Corporation
Ashland Oil, Inc.
Bailey Coke Transport, Inc.
Mr. Thomas J. Barta, President,

The Valley Line Company
Mr. Peter B. Bell
Mr. F. H. Blaske

American Commercial Barge Line Company
The Boswell Oil Company
Mr. Arthur J. Brosius, Vice President,

Administration Union Mechling Corporation
Mr. J. K. Brown, Treasurer,

American Commercial Barge Line Company
Mr. Meredith Buel,

American Institute of Merchant Shipping
Mr. Thomas L. Campbell,

Campbell Barge Line, Inc.
Mr. John A. Creedy, President,

Water Transport Association

Appendix 13. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 547
Hall of American Maritime Enterprise—Cont.
Crowley Maritime Corporation
Mr. Bailey T. DeBardeleben,
_ Bailey Coke Transport, Inc.
General Electric Company, Finance and Service Operation
Gladders Barge Line, Inc.
Mr. R. T. Goodwin, Jr., Executive Vice President,
Maxon Marine Industries
Mr. Henry L. Hillman, President,
The Hillman Foundation, Inc.
Mr. Edwin M. Hood, President,
Shipbuilders Council of America
Mr. Adrian S. Hooper,
Interstate Oil Transport Company
Mr. Robert A. Jenkins, President,
Propeller Club, Port of Detroit
Mrs. Jane Johnson, Treasurer,
The Women’s Propeller Club of the U. S.
Mr. Joseph M. Jones, Jr., President,
Canal Barge Company, Inc.
Mr. Karl M. Klebanoff, President,
Ogden Marine, Inc.
Mr. Horace R. Kornegay, President,
The Tobacco Institute, Inc.
Arthur Lewis and Martin Baum,
Optimus Productions
S. C. Loveland Company, Inc.
Maritime Administration,
U. S. Department of Commerce
Massman Construction Company
Mr. Carl E. McDowell, President,
American Institute of Marine Underwriters
Mr. O. R. Menton, General Manager, Marine Department,
Exxon Company, U. S. A.
Mr. John M. Murphy, Vice President, Sales,
National Steel and Shipbuilding Company
Pacific Cargoes, Inc. of Washington, D. C.
Mr. John Parker, Controller,
Bath Iron Works Corporation
Propeller Club, Port of New York
St. Lawrence Seaway
Mr. Lynn B. Sherrill,
Canal River Towing, Ltd.
Mr. Ralph J. Siricon, Manager, Marine and Government Department,
Worthington Sales Company
Mr. Thomas J. Smith, President,
Farrell Lines, Inc.
Tauber Oil Company
C. J. Thibodeaux and Company
The Tobacco Institute, Inc.
Mr. Paul E. Trimble, President,
Lake Carriers’ Association
(President), Upper Mississippi Towing Corp.
Ms. Joan V. Walsh,
Women’s Propeller Club of the U. S.

548 / Smithsonian Year 1975
Mr. Y. B. Williams, Jr., Director of Community Affairs,

Newport News Shipbuilding

Mr. W. F. Williams, Vice President,

Bethlehem Steel Corporation
Mr. Archie L. Wilson, President,
Dixie Carriers, Inc.
Ms. Venoy Wilson, Treasurer,

Women’s Propeller Club, Port of Sabine

Mr. M. D. Wyard,
Cargo Carriers, Inc.

HENRY R. LUCE HALL
Time-Life

HISTORY OF AMERICAN BANKING EXHIBIT

American Bankers Association
PERSON TO PERSON EXHIBIT
Ae Tenece De
SUITING EVERYONE HALL

James Adshead, Jr.

B. Altman and Co.

Aristocrat Apparel, Inc.

Robert M. Bednar

Bloomingdale Bros.

Stella Blum

Brenner Couture, Inc.

William Conant Brewer, Jr.

Bobbie Brooks, Addenda Division

Patricia Moore Bruder

Catherine A. Budziak

Butterick

Cadoro Jewels Corp.

Anita Boffa Cafritz

Bonnie Cashin Designs, Inc.

Cine-Robotics

Clarissa, Inc.

Conde Nast Publications, Inc.

Corrin N. Corbin

Lisa Young Donely

Jeane S. Eddy

Arthur L. Englander

Evans-Rosendorf, Inc.

Evening Star Newspaper Co.

Fairchild Publications, Inc.

The Fashion Group, Inc.

Fieldcrest Mills, Inc.

W. W. Funderburk

Stanley Gans, Inc.

Garfinkel’s

Morris and Frances Gewirz
Foundation, Inc.

Philip M. Gignoux

Glentex

Golo Footwear Corp.

Helen Gray

Otto Grun

Appendix 13. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 549

Hearst Corporation
Hecht Company

G. Carleton Hepting
The Hollingsworth Group, Inc.
Nina S. Hyde

Jane Irwill

Rasalind Gersten Jacobs
Jacobson Stores
Kathleen Orlon Johnson
Marvin L. Kay

G. Phillips Kelley
Geraldine Kendall
Frederic M. Kirkland
Calvin Klein, Ltd.

Elsa Klensch

Karen E. Kremer
Eleanor Lambert, Inc.
Dr. Michael F. Lapadula
Estee Lauder, Inc.

Irene Staz Levine

David C. Levy

Joseph Love Foundation
Antonio M. Marinelli
Pamela B. Meier, Jr.
Kathryn S. Michel
Vincent J. Monte-Sano
David D. Mooberry
Marjory S. Moskowitz
Newsday

Lester E. Ogilvy
Ourisman Chevrolet, Inc.
Parsons School of Design
J. C. Penney

Claire Jean Prager
Puritan Fashions Corp.
Raleigh Stores Corp.
Revlon
Suiting Everyone Hall—Cont.

M.N. Rubinstein Eve Lloyd Thompson

Saks Fifth Avenue (Chevy Chase) Tobe Associates, Inc.

Saks Fifth Avenue (New York) Triangle Communications, Inc.
Arnold Scaasi, Inc. Judith Pennebaker Voelker
Jewell R. Shepperd Montgomery Ward
Shutterbug, Inc. David R. Waters

Sportowne Coat, Ltd. West Point Pepperell

J. P. Stevens and Co., Inc. Woodward & Lothrop

James Taylor, Jr. Sidney S. Zlotnick

Dr. Luther L. Terry

WARSHAW COLLECTION OF BUSINESS AMERICANA
Dana, Verrill, Attorneys at Law

Life Special Reports

Moynihan Association

MISCELLANEOUS UNRESTRICTED GIFTS TO NATIONAL MUSEUM OF
HISTORY AND TECHNOLOGY

American College of Dentists Mr. and Mrs. James K. Smith
Mr. James E. Jarnagin Steuben Glass
Mr. Vasco McCoy, Jr. Mr. Royce Weisenberger

Sears Roebuck

Purchases Made From Funds

Folk Art Fund: 3 baskets, 1 pieced quilt (314675); wood carving of the Lone
Ranger (314677).

Gardner-Miller Fund: salt glazed bowl, England, circa 1750, in honor of
Mr. and Mrs. Jack L. Leon’s 50th anniversary (312076); and Syz, Dr. Hans:
Meissen teabowl and saucer, circa 1735-1740 (313385).

Land Transportation Fund: Union membership certificate, inspection torch,
conductor’s lamp, drinking cup (315303); china plate, silver plate, railroad
ticket (315319); locomotive feed water heater patent model (315320) ;
conductor’s cap (315445).

Mary E. Maxwell Fund: stoneware jar (312530) ; pottery bowl (312531);
pottery jug (312532); stoneware pitcher (312533) ; side chair (312534);
stoneware jar and earthenware churn (312535) ; side chair (312536);
stoneware pot (312559) ; 2 jars (312560); 2 stoneware jugs (312561);
rocking chair (313809) ; armchair, 3 jars, stoneware pitcher (313861) ;
earthenware candlestick and vase (314591); earthenware preserve pot
(315338) ; 3 stoneware jars, 2 baskets (315339); 2 stoneware jugs and
milkpan, earthenware pot and stove rest (315350); stoneware crock
(315351); stoneware jug (315353); stoneware jar (315354); cast iron stove
(315355); stoneware churn (315356); jar (315357); Shaker peg board
(315363).

Alfred Duane Pell Fund: Delft bowl, England, circa 1750 (312733).

Special Fund From Assistant Secretary for Art and History: Silver rooster tea
caddy (313267).

Canfield Fund: 1 beryl and 1 magnesite, Brazil (311936).

Casey Fund and Drake Fund: 2,073 miscellaneous insects (311355).

Chamberlain Fund: 27 mollusks, Tonga (295734); 1 elbaite crystal section,
Maine (311955); 1 faceted anglesite, Namibia (313754).

Drake Fund: 2,113 Hemiptera, Africa (309980). (see also Casey Fund).

Roebling Fund: 1 cut natrolite, New Jersey (308096) ; 2 uralolites, Maine
(311938); 3 beryl, 1 muscovite, 2 schorl, New Hampshire (311942) ; 24
minerals, worldwide (311974); 1 arsenopyrite, Mexico (312187); 1 apatite
and 1 barite, Mexico (312463); 1 copper, 2 quartz, 2 fluorite (313081).

Springer Fund: 5 slabs with 35+ invertebrate fossils, Utah (311200).

550 / Smithsonian Year 1975
Donors to the National Collections

INDIVIDUALS

Abbott, Mary Agden: 3 plates (312083).

Adams, Orrie C.: man’s shoes, shirt, and jacket, 1930 (310125).

Adrosko, Rita J.: woman’s skirt, gloves, hat, and dress (310038).

Aldridge, Jeanne M.: woman’s dress and jacket, circa 1947 (311814).

Alexander, Hayden D.: Edison lamp, Bryant socket (312351).

Albree, G. Norman: lantern clock, wedding spoon, circa 1700 (314557).

Allen, Mr. and Mrs. duVal: American flag hammock (312100).

Allen, Mrs. Genevieve L.: woman’s dress, skirt, and 2 bodices, circa 1857
(313300).

Allison, Mrs. Mildred Dillion (see Dillion, Dorothy Vernon).

Andrews, Mrs. M. T., Jr., and Waterman, Dr. Glen S.: 8 costume accessory
items and a swim suit (309461).

Anonymous: woman’s suit and shoes (309428); Ku Klux Klan wooden cross
(313389) ; autograph of Oliver Wendell Holmes and Theodore Roosevelt
(314574) ; 38 pieces of Art Nouveau and Art Deco glass and pottery
(314609) ; 184 die proofs (314632); 6 Chinese ceramics (314663).

Apfelbaum, Stanley: Massachusetts Colony note, 1775 (313375).

Arnhold, Henry: porcelain cup and saucer, circa 1775 (312079); Meissen box
and cover, circa 1734 (314605).

Babson, Mrs. Jane F.: bra and half slip (309726).

Barnkamp, Mrs. A. J.: 2 bathing suits, 1925 (308603).

Bartlett, Frederick W.: 2 pen and ink prints of Brooks-Scanlon locomotive
(315435).

Battelle, Kenneth E.: man’s suit, 1966 (311811).

Battey, Galen B., Jr.: 15 men’s apparel items (309087).

Baumbusch, Raymond G.: men’s swim trunks and golf socks (309316).

Bazelon, Bruce: 2 pair wool Army socks, circa 1960 (314562).

Bear, Fred: 2 bows, 2 quivers, arm guard, carrying case, 13 arrows (306700).

Becker, Ralph E.: 10,516 political history items (315128).

Bell, Dr. Whitfield J., Jr.: halfpenny copper token (311819).

Belter, George G.: 4 Spanish-American War military items (311475).

Bent, Mr. and Mrs. Allen E.: 2 men’s shirts, 2 woman’s skirts, necklace, and
blouse (309933).

Bergwin, Lark: 4 religious pamphlets, 12 prints (312498).

Berhalter, Joseph: 3 men’s suits, 3 ties (313476).

Berkebile, Don H.: spurs, tire chains, weel barrow, air pump, cart harness
(315443).

Bernath, Mrs. Clara: textile sampler (315380).

Bernhard, Helen D.: 4 pairs women’s shoes (313480).

Berry, Mrs. Madeleine Curtis: 2 silver serving spoons (312371).

Bishop, W. H.: man’s suit, 2 ties (313478).

Blaisdell, Earl: 7 ancient silver coins (314077).

Blend, John: wall clock (311322).

Blick, Edward A.: 33 toy soldiers, toy horse (311859).

Block, Albert and Ruth S.: 2 apparel display forms (313294).

Blomquist, Dr. Olov A.: flexible gastroscope and Oak box (315417).

Blumenthal, Sol and Deborah: 5 cookie cutters (312101).

Bode, Henry W.: woman’s dress, 1936 (308605).

Bojarinow, Boris (through Kathleen Hemry): 16 decorative eggs (314474).

Boling, Margaret: slate, in memory of Cuyles Orland Boling (311461).

Boulemtaf, Henry T.: World War I uniform and accessories (311909) ; Kodak
camera (312711).

Bours, Mrs. Elizabeth W.: 3 women’s dresses, circa 1930 (313218).

Appendix 13. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 551
Boyd, John J.: magneto generator, 1840 (313184).

Boyer, Mrs. Ivan: 6 wearing apparel items, 1960s (310533).

Boyle, T.: telegraph register (312604).

Bozardt, Leon R.: Robot camera (315246).

Bradshaw, Lilyan B. (through Mrs. Barbara Waite) : smallest envelope to ever
pass through the postal service, 1909 (315318).

Braun, Dr. Annette F.: snuff box (311462).

Brelin, Mrs. I. G.: 10 clothing and accessory items (309738).

Broadwater, Mrs. Norman: bar of soap, 1876 Centennial (313051).

Brown, Earl: artificial leg (312610).

Brown, Dr. J. H. U.: 16 prints and drawings (313039).

Brown, Dr. and Mrs. J. H. V.: 20 prints (311471).

Brown, Mrs. John B.: woman’s dress, bodice, and overskirt, 1880 (313231).

Brown, Roland: barbed wire (312731).

Brown, Sandra L.: women’s shoes, circa 1945 (312971).

Broyles, Kenton H.: 2 hoods, 2 robes, Ku Klux Klan (312737); 7 political
history items (313391).

Bruns, Mrs. Marie (through Mrs. Alicia Dillon): woman’s racoon coat, 1928
(308576).

Bryan, Mildred Gote: 2 color lithographs, Dali (312143).

Buchanan, Mrs. R. R.: 3 women’s blouses, suit, hiking boots, shoes (309736).

Buck, Mrs. Marion: necklace, brooch (307670).

Bullowa-Moore, Mrs. Catherine B.: 70 ancient coins (312037); 3 storecards,
1 medal (313351); galvanos of Milan medal, Columbian Exposition, 1893
(315250).

Burger, Honorable Warren E.: printer’s proof, United States vs Nixon Et Al
(315127).

Campbell, Edwin Cooley, and Reed, Mrs. Cloyce Cooley Campbell: cotton
quilt, 19th-century (314088).

Cantrell, Mrs. Catherine: 2 gold badges, 2 silver medals, silver plaque (314569).

Cardinal, Mr. and Mrs. L. E.: man’s sport coat, woman’s swim suit (309459).

Carpenter, Mrs. James D.: man’s suit (306800).

Carter, Mrs. Maude Faulkner (see Hunter, Mrs. Myrtle Faulkner).

Cartwright, Charles Copp, and Cox, Mrs. Martha Cartwright (through Mrs.
Lorraine T. Meyers): embroidered counterpane (314089).

Cassady, Mrs. Robert Barr: prospecting cone (315133).

Chambers, Mrs. Sam A.: man’s knickers (309140).

Chapin, Lavine A.: woman’s dress, 1958 (309687).

Cheney, John T.: U.S. officer’s chapeau, box, shoulder knots, headress (310071).

Chokel, Bogomir: rubber miner’s boots (314680).

Clain-Stefanelli, Mrs. Elvira: 30 ancient coins (312064, 315401, 315405); sheet
of Confederate paper currency (315400); 10 foreign paper currencies
(315402).

Clain-Stefanelli, Dr. Vladimir: 212 commemorative medals (312060, 312061,
315383, 315384, 315385, 315389): 50 ancient coins (312063, 312067) ; facsimile
set of coins in the Holy Scripture (315399).

Clark, Dr. E. Newton (through Mrs. John P. Dring): packet of 4 gold foil
pieces (312612).

Clark, Henry A., Jr.: headlamp, 1903 (315448).

Cleveland, Mrs. Emma McKeith (see McKeith, Bertha).

Coffee, Barbara J. (see Helfrick, Susan K.).

Cohen, Mrs. Marianne: 2 revolvers, 1 holster, in memory of George S. Chase
(311479).

Colbert, Russell DeWitt: man’s pants, shoes, shirt, 1967 (310280).

Coles, Charles H.: wooden lantern slide camera, 19th-century (314533).

Collins, Herbert R.: U.S. House of Representatives arm chair, 1902-12
(300282); lighting fixtures, candle holder, food warmer (308112).

552 / Smithsonian Year 1975
Combest, Mrs. Frank A.: woman’s beach pajamas and sunbonnet, 1928-1929
(309429).

Conger, Paul S.: 11 medical science items, in memory of William J. Whiting
(312619).

Cook, Mrs. Ethel M. (through Larry Rogers): 100-gun English war ship model,
in memory of Harold J. Cook (311392).

Cooper, Mr. and Mrs. Sanford L.: knitted infant’s cap (315381).

Cope, Mrs. Marjorie A.: 14 National Guard insignia and service medals
(313187) ; National Guard bronze Faithful Service medal (313342).

Cordrey, Mr. and Mrs. E. E.: 2 phonograph reproducers, Bristophon, and
master adapter (315307).

Courtney, Mrs. Grace H.: 2 scholarship award medals (313341).

Cox, Joseph: 2 code practice records (311078).

Cox, Mrs. Martha Cartwright (see Cartwright, Charles Copp).

Craig, Mrs. A. G.: voltmeter (312602).

Craig, Louise: 3-dollar bill, 1852 (313349).

Craig, Mrs. Louis: woven silk shawl (314083).

Cunningham, Mrs. Hazel V.: Chinese shawl (314471).

Cunningham, Hugh: accouterment plate (314598).

Curry, Field: telegraph switchboard instructions (312605).

Daniel, Mrs. J. Irene (see Irvin, Lynn J.).

Darida, Ray: 70 sample U.S. Army and ROTC insignia, World War II
(313982).

Davis, Mrs. Carterette C.: women’s suit, 3 hats, 5 pairs shoes (311815).

Davis, J. K.: 2 political slogan coffee cups (315331).

Davis, Lawrence R.: crystal radio receiver (311269).

Deal, David V., Jr.: hand blown glass vase (312081).

Dearing, Mrs. Arthur H.: 6 Naval uniform items (311391); 3 Naval citations,
personal note from Eleanor Roosevelt (312624).

deChern, Josephine Weaver: 741 Russian Imperial treasury notes (315391).

DeHart, Mrs. Elsie P.: woman’s dress, 1934 (309457).

Demetros, Mrs. George L.: 5 women’s clothing items (309721).

Dennis, Harry, Jr.: 3 glassware pieces, Sweden (315336).

Dentino, Janet S.: 7 women’s clothing items (309764).

Diehl, Sandra L. (see Fitzgerald, Mrs. Margaret).

Dillion, Dorothy Vernon; Allison, Mrs. Mildred Dillion; and Shipp, Mrs.
Winifred Dillion: cap, apron, admittance ticket (308728).

Dillon, Mrs. Alicia (see Bruns, Mrs. Marie).

DiSalle, Honorable Michael V.: 4,304 political campaign objects, in memory of
Thomas H. Williams (315264).

Dix, Gertrude: men’s golf suit, belt, socks (309143).

Donohue, Patricia Ann and James Joseph, IV (through James J. Donohue
III): 3 bas reliefs of automobiles, 1926 (315451).

Donohue, James J., III (see Donohue, Patricia Ann and James Joseph, IV).

Dooley, Joseph H.: men’s shoes (312890).

Dougherty, Mrs. Charles E.: silent butler (311418).

Douglas, Ben M.: 2 early San Francisco scrip issues (315123); American
Colonial note, 1776 (315299).

Douglas, Bruce C.: Ihagee duplex camera (314537).

Douglas, Mrs. Violet M.: paint box belonging to Archie Roosevelt (315316).

Doyle, Bernard: converted rifle (307808).

Drake, Thomas J.: officer’s cap, World War II (313923).

Draper, Mrs. Dorcas J.: woman’s dress (308604).

Drew, Eileen: 2 women’s dresses (309725).

Dring, Mrs. John P. (see Clark, Dr. E. Newton).

Dubie, Mrs. Eleanor Anderson: woman’s dress, bodice, blouse (311498).

Dull, Mary Louise: 10 items of apparel (309765).

Appendix 13. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 553
Dunmore, Mildred V.: 37 Army Nurse Corps uniform and insignia specimens,
World War II, in memory of Morris Calvin Dunmore (313924).

Dunn, Arthur Wallace: book, Admiral George Dewey, 1899 (314640).

Dunton, Gardner: metal block for bookplace, circa 1898 (310998).

Durkin, Elizabeth and Helen: 139 items of dressmaking and trim (315126).

Dyer, Lucille and Francis K. (through Emil Knoska): rural mail box (315382).

Dziedzic, Ben (through Mrs. Esther Dziedzic) : 19 medical science items
(306964).

Dziedzic, Mrs. Esther (see Dziedzic, Ben).

Earnest, Mr. and Mrs. Paul (through Charles V. Litherland): rural mail box
(314627).

Edbrooke, Gerald (see Kessner, Miriam Z.).

Ellenberger, William J.: 10 costume and furnishing items (314601).

Elliott, John M.: U.S. Marine Corps blue dress uniform (311679).

Elswit, Joan Noyes: pottery vase (314608).

Emerson, William K.: uniform fatigues and accessories (314673).

Engelbourg, Saul: men’s Bermuda shorts (309081).

Eno, Irene R.: women’s dress, hat, and carry-all (309908).

Erikson, Dr. Edwin B.: Jacquard woven coverlet (313384).

Evans, Mrs. David: woman’s black wedding jacket, circa 1906 (308577).

Evans, Elliott (see Hale, Mrs. Crescent Porter).

Evans, Timothy: man’s jacket, woman’s gloves (308578).

Ewing, Mrs. Claude: woman’s suit, 2 feather plumes, blouse, 1921 (309458).

Exton, Mr. and Mrs. Fred: Mexican blanket (313934).

Farber, Mr. and Mrs. Daniel: flowed portrait (314538).

Farrar, Richard S.: Masonic medal (313350).

Faucett, William R.: rural mail box (314535).

Fauntleroy, H. E., Jr.: 2 campaign broadsides (315311).

Fawcett, Mrs. K. F.: newspaper, 1835 (311820).

Fesperman, John: sermon manuscript, 1847 (311464).

Finn, Leonard H.: award medal (313376).

Fitzgerald, Mrs. Margaret (through Sandra L. Diehl): pocket notebook, 1876
(311422).

Fleischmann, Mrs. Julius: 5 Bermuda shorts, 1 blouse (310279).

Floyd, Thomas L.: 9 silver medals (315105).

Foley, Herbert, Jr. (see Valenta, Mr. and Mrs. Ronald).

Ford, John J.: 58 medals and die trials (312712).

Ford, Johnny: campaign photograph and inaugural address (314622).

Ford, Richard L.: 60 World War II photographs (311869).

Forrest, Stephen: Dalton adding machine, 1923 (314559).

Fountain, Mrs. Leatrice: girl’s pajamas, woman’s evening dress (309408).

Fowler, Mrs. Bodine S.: woman’s evening dress, circa 1926 (313477).

Fox, David: multiband radio receiver (312372).

Freedman, Dr. Hyman M.: Parker sewing machine (314687).

Freeze, Richard G.: Monroe desk calculator (311886).

French, G. D. (through Ben L. Morse): rural mail box (314629).

Funke, Mr. and Mrs. Richard H., Jr.: 7 items of wearing apparel (312972).

Furman, E. F.: enamel and diamond brooch (313299).

Furman, M. William: enamel, pearl and diamond brooch (313298).

Gateley, Mrs. Roy A.: woman’s dress, purse, and stockings (309690).

Gatter, Carl W.: 5 Centennial wooden medals, 1876 (302055).

Gay, Connie B.: man’s suit, shirt, and bow tie, 1956 (311817).

Gaylord, Helen K.: crystal bowl, 1910 (315257).

Geiser, Mrs. Grace.: 6 trade catalogs (315420).

Geoghegan, William E.: Civil War artillery shell (311472); and Thomas,
Jessee B.: 3 ship’s logs (313186).

554 / Smithsonian Year 1975
Giller, Alfred T.: electric egg stirrer (312606).

Gillilland, Mrs. Cora Lee: 2 medalets (313344).

Ginsburg, Cora: 2 printed cotton textiles, 1 shawl (314688).

Glasier, Mrs. Roger B.: commemorative broadside (311274).

Goodrow, Mrs. Doris and Saunders, Rev. Winston A.: stationery and post card
from the Lusitania (312483).

Gould, Dr. Charles J.: man’s suit and tie, 1940 (309906).

Gould, Mrs. Charles J.: 3 women’s dresses (309930).

Grant, Chapman: divining rod (315453).

Gray, Mrs. Anna S.: woman’s hat, dress, and purse, 1954 (309678).

Gregg, Mrs. David: 5 medals, opera glass, and daguerreotype relating to
Benjamin Pike (312744).

Gregory, Seth C.: Bowie knife (313470).

Greibach, Dr. E. H.: 7 medical science items relating to bone conducting
hearing aids (312614).

Greiner, George: policeman’s nightstick (313487).

Griesel, Richard: textile company’s promotional book (313382).

Griffin, Lorne A.: extension light, electrical cords (312354).

Grimes, Mr. and Mrs. Ralph: wooden dental sign (312965).

Guest, Mrs. Thomas S.: bound folio of Hullmandell’s lithotint patent process,
circa 1841 (312032).

Guggenheimer, Mrs. Mary S.: Northwest coast Indian basket (315394).

Haar, Mrs. Alfred Ter: woman’s swim suit, 1948 (309910).

Habernickel, M., Jr.: 12 men’s ties (313475).

Hait, Mrs. Russell Hull: Christmas cards, 1940s (312421).

Hale, Mrs. Crescent Porter (through Elliott Evans) : 24 White House design
dinner plates (315265).

Hamelly, Henry: 14 U. S. First-day covers (312721).

Hammer, Mrs. Jane Ross: woman’s sweater, skirt and belt, 1950s (309909).

Hamseen, John: ash tray (314529).

Hanft, Mrs. Margaret: men’s shoes, circa 1920 (309077).

Harding, Robert S.: men’s swim suit and slacks, circa 1960 (309686).

Haring, Mrs. Douglas G.: revolver, holster and 5 blank cartridges (310854).

Hartenstein, Mrs. Jessie M.: 67 pieces of pressed glass (314606).

Hays, Brig. Gen. Anna Mae: woman’s wig (311946).

Hebert, Mr. and Mrs. Raymond J.: 260 financial documents (312039, 312043,
312049, 312062, 312066) ; 524 coins (312044, 314071, 314075, 314565, 315116,
315119, 315120); 31 numismatic items (312058); 88 coins and medals
(314074).

Hecht, Dr. and Mrs. Rudolph C.: 2 cameras, 1 flashgun (315297).

Heckman, Harold: boy doll (308345).

Hedges, Mrs. Agnes B.: 5 religious paper cut-outs (314469).

Helfrick, Susan K. (through Barbara J. Coffee): 3 political phonograph records
(313708).

Helm, Mrs. Susan: 2 women’s dresses, playsuit, suit (310037).

Helms, T. Roy and Douglas: cotton duster (315454).

Hemry, Kathleen (see Bojarinow, Boris).

Henchel, Joseph: 4 political history items (310997).

Henderson, Kenneth W.: Japanese propaganda leaflet, World War II (310049).

Henjes, Mr. and Mrs. George P.: women’s drawers and 2 combinations
(309407).

Henke, Louis, Jr.: man’s suit, belt, and tie (309144).

Herd, Janice M.: birth certificate (311458).

Hill, Mrs. Lida M. (through Edward Kohan): ship model (312368).

Hill, Peter: 12 window shades, seat covers, 16 wallpaper samples (313926).

Himmelfarb, Dr. and Mrs. Morris H.: Meissen figure group, 1910 (314094).

Appendix 13. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 555
Hjemdal, Mrs. Bertha M.: woman’s slip (310039).

Hobbs, Mrs. Sara L.: fatigue blouse, Spanish-American War (313473).

Hollerith, Virginia: faradic battery and wooden case (311872).

Holmes, Robert J.: micrometer (314635).

Holst, Donald W.: 6 Colonial Marine uniform plates for recruiting posters
(312494): collection of 31 World War II equipment and ROTC insignia
(312596); 9 uniform buttons, 1 Marine handbook (313188).

Howell, Charles: electric toaster (311699).

Howland, Dr. Richard H.: Inauguration invitation (314615).

Hronik, R. H.: desk calculator, operating manual, 2 root divisors (313984).

Huckenpahler, Mrs. B. J.: woman’s suit, hat, 2 blouses, necklace, and skirt
(309950).

Huffman, Mrs. Henrietta: automatic telephone dial (312600).

Huggins, Mrs. June (see Panciera, Mrs. Luigia).

Humble, Mrs. Liane: braille slide rule, in memory of Moritz O. Shollmier
(313987).

Hunter, Mrs. Myrtle Faulkner, and Carter, Mrs. Maude Faulkner: United Con-
federate Veterans gilt and enamel badge, 1900 (306799).

Husfloan, Kyle: veterans register (312370).

Irland, Mrs. George A.: woman’s watch (315309).

Irvin, Lynn J., Estate of (through Mrs. J. Irene Daniel): telegraph key
(311268).

Jenks, Mrs. Miriam B.: beach pajamas (309406).

Jeru-Ahmed, Gen. Hassan: political bumper sticker, press invitation, and
poster (314624).

Johnson, Everett M.: toy bank, cane (313933).

Johnston, Mr. and Mrs. Clement M.: 2 White House invitations, 1899 and
1900 (312147); stoneware jar, brass candleholder (312564).

Johnston, Mrs. Virginia H.: 6 costume accessory items (309949).

Johnston, Mrs. George B.: sweater, Bermuda shorts, and girdle (309724).

Jones, William: Red Cross uniform, World War II (314553).

Juelich, Otto: 4 computation seminar proceedings (312144).

Kahane, Mr. and Mrs. Adam: child’s ski boots (313239).

Kainen, Mr. and Mrs. Jacob: impressions from pre-Columbian seals (312891).

Kate, Marina: 10 pairs women’s shoes and gloves (312203).

Kavruck, Dr. Samuel: 17 medical science items (312611).

Keally, James M., Jr.: 3 panes of commemorative stamps, 1946 (312716).

Keller, Phillips Brooks: watch used by Helen Keller (314555).

Kennedy, Mrs. Agnes M.: 3 identification tags with chain (313989).

Kessner, Miriam Z., Estate of (through Gerald Edbrooke) : 41 Worcester
porcelain birds, 1 Copenhagen porcelain (310478, bequest).

Ketterer, Frieda C.: 7 men’s apparel items (309948).

Kettering, Mrs. Karl: woman’s dress and coat, 1941 (309681).

Kidder, Rev. J. Edward: leather bound trunk (314610).

Killinger, Mrs. Elizabeth Coleman: wedding dress, 1935 (313235).

King, Mrs. Blanche Elliot: doll and trunk of doll clothes (308963).

Kissinger, John R., Estate of (through James Van Buskirk): Swiss watch
312739, bequest).

Klapthor, Frank E.: Victorian basket (311419); embroidered bedcover (314084).

Klein, Dr. and Mrs. William H.: rural mail box (314628).

Klinger, Robert L.: men’s ice skates (311460) ; seal press (315117).

Knouff, Lorentz B.: coffee pot with cover, tea pot with cover, circa 1750
(314095).

Knoska, Emil (see Dyer, Lucille and Francis K.).

Knox, Mrs. Katherine McCook: clay vase, 1878 (313268).

Kobacker, Arthur: Jacquard coverlet, 1858 (313379).

556 / Smithsonian Year 1975
Koehm, Andrew P.: 2 commemorative buttons (315310).

Koerner, Matthew G.: man’s suit, 1950 (313304).

Kohan, Edward (see Hill, Mrs. Lida M.).

Kopp, Mrs. Robert: women’s dress, jacket and slacks (309934).

Krahmer, Mrs. A. B.: pennant, 2 pins, World War II (314540).

Lacy, Gordon: 6 men’s ties, 1949-1952 (313240).

LaFollette, Mrs. Mary: 3 snuff boxes (311493); 6 spectacles (311680) ; quilt
top, beaded bag (313380); 9 political history items (313390).

Land, Mrs. Ardoth R.: boy’s bathing suit, 1926 (309078).

Lange, Mrs. Myra C.: gym suit, stockings, shoes, 1921 (309405).

Larsen, Mr. and Mrs. Laurence H.: 3 lithographs of New York (313388).

Larson, Mrs. Warren F.: men’s suit, 1931 (309142).

Layton, Benjamin T.: 169 foreign coins (313704, 314072); 31 U.S. medals
(312702) ; 56 foreign coins, medals, tokens, and paper currencies (313703).

LeClere, E. Alan: 1 gasoline engine (315430) ; Becker talking clock (315433).

Leigh, Mr. and Mrs. James C.: 999 paper currencies, Chinese (315247).

Leonard, Mrs. William: 3 pairs men’s shoes (313230).

Leslie, John H.: river steamer model (315419).

Levin, Mrs. Renee T.: 13 clothing and accessory items (309944).

Lief, Mrs. Lucy: 6 clothing items (309739).

Lightner, Clarence B.: 5 political campaign items (314621).

Lilly, Mrs. Mary Jane: Hardtack soda cracker, World War I (311320).

Lindquist, H. L.: 14 U.S. gold coins (315112).

Litherland, Charles V. (see Earnest, Mr. and Mrs. Paul).

Litton, Mrs. Betty E.: woman’s coat, 1955 (308574).

Lobkowicz, Mr. and Mrs. Martin G.: 11 women’s apparel items (309945).

Loomis, Mr. and Mrs. Fred: woman’s dress and jacket, man’s tie (313303).

Looney, Charles T. G.: 4 scrip issued by iron companies (315113).

Lovering, Richard S., Jr.: 6 family documents (314667).

Lucas, Phyllis: lithograph, reproduction poster, album of color etchings
(312750).

Lucy, Mrs. Charles: men’s shirt, Bermuda shorts, 1954-1956 (309084).

Lund, Hillman: 36 items related to the cigar making industry (315458).

Lyon, Arbrey R.: fishing reel and case (312149).

Lyon, Mr. and Mrs. Thomas C.: 13 Latin American coins (313705).

Lyon, Ulysses G.: environmental bumper sticker (314682).

Mackler, Tina: lithograph (311323).

Maclay, Mrs. Adele S.: medicine chest and dissecting microscope (315327).

Mahoney, Charles: Marine fatigue jacket, World War II (311844).

Makovenyi, Mrs. Nadya: ski poles (313214).

Malis, Dr. Sol: bronze candelabra, 17th-century, Meerschum pipe bowl
(313932).

Mallock, Mrs. Lettys Eliot: silver teaspoon (312117).

Markle, Mrs. Frances J.: 8 wearing apparel items (308274).

Martin, Peter: 6 sheets of Watergate stamps (314616).

Mason, Walter: 5 numismatic study items (315107).

Masters, Dr. Arthur M.: set of Masters two step test (312609).

Mauze, Mrs. Jean: 10 pieces porcelain, 18th-century (313707).

Maxwell, Mrs. Baldwin: woman’s dress and lounging pajamas (312466).

May, Carl G.: German newspaper front, 1944 (313469).

Mayo, Edith P.: 8 political leaflets and posters (315313).

McCaffrey, Mrs. Mary Ellen: 20 Greek coins (312048).

McCormick, Charles D.: 25 gold coins and decorations (312713).

McCurdy, Mr. and Mrs. John R.: men’s shoes, 1951 (312465).

McCutcheon, Mrs. James J.: dress belonging to Mrs. Andrew Jackson, Jr.
(67902).

Appendix 13. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 557
McCutcheon, Mrs. Rheta S.: leather boots, 19th-century (304356).

McGee, Dr. Shanna J.: pewter plate (314470).

McGraw, Bessy J.: Grand Army of the Republic badge, 1937 (314076).

McKeith, Bertha and Cleveland, Mrs. Emma McKeith: crocheted bedspread,
19th-century (315125).

McLindon, William: Cavalry helmet, circa 1880 (313241).

McMahan, Melvin D. (see McMahan, William Henery, Family).

McMahan, William Henery, Family (through Melvin D. McMahan): damask
table cloth (313381).

Meggers, Dr. Betty J.: 58 Austrian emergency scrips (315106); 10 U.S. wooden
nickels and sales tax tokens (315118).

Merchant, Margery M.: 2 women’s swim suits (308606).

Messenger, Mrs. Ruey: women’s suit, 3 dresses (310517).

Metz, Ken and Robert: silver commemorative bar (313371).

Metzel, Mrs. Elizabeth C.: woman’s dress and coat, 1910 (311813).

Meyer, Mrs. Alice Z.: woman’s snood (309480); Red Cross nurse’s uniform
and patch (312736).

Meyers, Mrs. Lorraine T. (see Cartwright, Charles Copp).

Miles, Mrs. Alice M.: 2 veterinary syringes (315422); 1 commemorative medal
(315423).

Miller, Mrs. Caroline Benes: Fez with tassel, 1893 (309004).

Miller, Mrs. Clifton M.: Chinese porcelain teapot, tea bowl and saucer, circa
1790-1815 (315129).

Millett, Stephen C. (through Dr. Herbert B. Weissberger) : 2 French fowling
firearms (306408).

Misrach, Richard: 3 silver prints (314536).

Mitchell, Milton: 1 pane of commemorative stamps, 1946 (312719).

Moebs, T. T.: reproduction of Civil War song sheet (313936).

Monte-Sano, Vincent: woman’s suit, 1947 (311818).

Moodey, John Southworth: land document, 1677 (314156).

Moore, Earl: official Post Office envelope, 1883; Post Office form, 1858
(314613); receipt for subscription to counterfeit detector, 1842 (315109).

Moore, Mrs. Julia Nylund: woman’s dress, man’s jacket (312207).

Morey, Jane Bell: Fortuny hanging, pillow cover, and fiberglas textile sample
(312070).

Morgan, Mrs. Barbara: photograph, 1942 (314539).

Morris, Mark: 50 political items relating to the pacifist movement (314626).

Morris, Martha: photolithographic reproduction of a painting by Miro
(313249).

Morris, Mrs. Vincent E.: 26 items of women’s apparel (309971).

Morse, Ben L. (see French, G. D.).

Moulton, Mrs. Stanley J.: ice cream dipper (311420).

Mroczkowski, Dennis P.: Marine utility cap (315362).

Mulford, Valerie L.: 5 ski clothing items (309460).

Mulquin, Mrs. David J.: beach pajamas, 1931 (309684).

Mummert, Harold B.: radio receiver, circa 1934 (312599).

Murphy, Evelyn: man’s tie, woman’s shoes (312889).

Murray, Mrs. John H.: stoneware crock (313266); 2 Franklin D. Roosevelt
posters (314097); 8 textile specimens, 1 knitting stick (315253).

Mustapha, Jennie: coffee mill (312105).

Myers, Dr. Leslie W. (through Mrs. Leslie Myers): 67 spectacles, cases, and
lorgnettes (309904).

Myers, Mrs. Leslie (see Myers, Dr. Leslie W.).

Myers, Robert G.: Air Force identification tags (314558).

Nagy, Mrs. Anne: 9 costume and accessory items (309969).

Neilson, Benjamin R. (see Rush, Benjamin).

558 / Smithsonian Year 1975
Neinken, Edward: 62 ancient Greek coins (315302).

Neinken, Mortimer L.: 1 silver sixpence, 1652 (314073); Ordinance establishing
the U.S. Mint, 1786 (315110); U.S. cover with 3 stamps, 1861 (315252); and
Anna: 12 commemorative medals (314078).

Newbould, Richard J.: prototype and model of indexer (315300).

Nicholas, Robert: collection of World War I objects and documents (313450).

Nichols, Kenneth W.: 12 North Vietnamese paper currencies (314571).

Nicholson, Mary C.: man’s suit, 1939 (308022).

Nicolaides, Mrs. Martha Jane: calling card and handkerchief, 1904 (311421).

Niesse, Mrs. Joseph H.: woman’s suit, hat, blouse, and pin, 1940s (310518).

Niles, Mrs. Maxine: eyeglasses, circa 1935 (310153).

Norris, Mrs. Marion: wedding dress, slip, shoes, 1936 (309688).

O’Bert, Wendy C.: 40 insignia, medals and uniform items, in memory of
Lt. Col. and Mrs. John J. O’Bert (315407).

Oldenburg, John: 9 photographs of carrousels (313810).

Oliver, Mrs. Dorothy L.: English plate, 19th-century (314096).

Orum, Mrs. Carolyn Nuessle: girl’s coat and hat, 1932 (309676).

Osborn, Orin O.: watch, shotgun, shell belt, and 21 shells (311476).

Owen, David G.: Monroe calculator (311324).

Packer, Mrs. Dorothy: woman’s dress, 1929 (309685).

Panciera, Mrs. Luigia (through Mrs. June Huggins): 19 doilies (313706).

Pangborn, Mr. and Mrs. John: woman’s hat, 3 pairs of shoes, dress, and
coat, 1940s (309929).

Patrick, Mrs. Angela L.: 7 costume accessory items (309970).

Patterson, Mrs. Jefferson: Senate pass, Congress pass, 2 Inauguration tickets
(312086).

Patton, Mrs. Frederic K.: carbide lamp, circa 1914 (315450).

Patton, Joan and Fred: dash board pump, circa 1910; automobile spotlight,
circa 1925 (315371).

Patton, Maj. Gen. George S.: herringbone twill suit worn by George S.
Patton, Jr., while commanding in Tunisia and Sicily, 1943 (315337).

Peerless, Dr. Sidney A.: 81 antislavery tokens and medals (315111).

Pell, Robert: silk gown worn by Mrs. Grover Cleveland, photograph of gown
(312623).

Perkins, H. Porter: 2 World War II scrap books (314315) ; 9 naval history
items (315332).

Peterson, Mendel L.: 14 patent medicines in original containers (304624) ;

1 cover mailed from Germany to Chicago, 1861 (315124).

Peterson, Mrs. Richard N.: 3 clarinets with cases, photographs and clippings
relating to John P. Sousa (314090).

Peyton, Michael: short-wave radio, circa 1941 (312353).

Pfeiffer, Earl C. (see Tinsley, Harry J.).

Plummer, Edna: baby shoes (313212).

Poggioli, David Sidney Fisher and Peter Ralph (through Mrs. Mary Fisher
Poggioli) : Italian Army service uniform, United Nations sash and beret, in
memory of Raffaele Peter Poggioli (312597).

Poggioli, Mrs. Mary Fisher (see Poggioli, David Sidney Fisher and Peter Ralph).

Pope, Lemuel: porringer, creampot, tea caddy, tea pot stand, snuff box, 2
samplers, and jelly mold, 18th—19th century (313983).

Porter, Mrs. Henry: French shelf clock (315298).

Post, Mrs. Marjorie Merriweather: Marie Louise diadem, 1810 (294384).

Poulton, Mrs. Frank W.: racing ice skates (313652).

Powell, Mr. and Mrs. Larry D.: girl’s midi outfit, 1914-1915 (310124).

Price, Mary: woman’s suit, dress, 1900-1910 (313233).

Price, Mr. and Mrs. Wiley R., Jr.: water wings, 1937 (309455).

Prilik, Max R.: German coherer, circa 1904 (312937).

Appendix 13. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 559
Pritchard, John S., Jr.: Commission in the Georgia Militia, 1880 (314527).

Pugsley, Edwin A.: Orrery mechanism (312089).

Ramstedt, C. F.: 15 Naval night vision instruments and accessories, World
War II (311714).

Reed, Mrs. Cloyce Cooley Campbell (see Campbell, Edwin Cooley).

Rehwinkel, Mrs. Myrtle: 2 women’s swim suits (309931).

Revson, Mrs. Lyn: 33 ceramic cottages (315130).

Ridenour, Frank: 13-star flag (314082).

Ring, Bernard: 3 commemorative First-Day covers (312729).

Ripley, Dr. S. Dillon: 3 postage stamps, India (312068); 1 bronze
commemorative medal (314575).

Risley, Vincent: women’s knickers and socks, 1920s, man’s suit, 1930s |
(309085).

Ritter, Mrs. William E.: American Legion uniform and convention medal
(311927).

Robertson, Mrs. Anabel Graves, and Wiggins, Mrs. Isabel Graves: 1 kyat
banknote, Bank of Burma (310992). |

Robertson, Paul: fragmented 12-pounder shot (311478).

Robinson, Edwin K.: fashion print, 1832 (314464).

Robnett, Mrs. Annette N.: Plako zipper, 1913, and pattern (313217).

Roe, Jerry D.: political commemorative medallion (315266).

Rogers, Larry (see Cooke, Mrs. Ethel M.).

Rosenthal, Mr. and Mrs. J. W.: woman’s shoes and purse, man’s suit, 1960s
(313226).

Rothschild, Sigmund (see Wiesenberger, Arthur).

Runion, Mrs. Donald F.: mink scarf, 1949 (309076).

Rush, Benjamin, Estate of (through Benjamin R. Neilson): silver tray
presented to Dr. Rush for his services during the Philadelphia calamity
of 1793 (315342, bequest).

Ruthizer, Walter: men’s vest, Bermuda shorts, 2 shirts, 4 pairs socks (309086).

Rutledge, Mrs. Anna Wells: Mexican blanket (314656).

Ryan, Dr. and Mrs. Cornelius: man’s Bermuda shorts, 1958 (309082).

Sachs, Mrs. George H.: 9 costume and accessory items (309766).

Saffo, Mrs. Jean W.: 12 costume and accessory items (309946). |

Salm, Arthur: 80 postal history items (315703). |

Sampson, Squire: 4 anti-Roosevelt political items (314625).

Sands, John: orrery, 19th-century (315268).

Santaballe, Jose R.: gold watch (312742).

Saumenig, Mrs. Kathryne Watson: woman’s dress and beaver muff, 1952
(311812).

Saunders, O. George: hat and 7 buttons, Spanish War Veterans (313915).

Saunders, Rev. Winston A. (see Goodrow, Mrs. Doris).

Sawyer, Dr. William: drawing by Eleanor Dickinson (312497).

Scheele, Carl H.: phonograph record jacket, 1912-1916 (315317).

Schlotzhauer, Elbert O.: 2 Burroughs adding machines (312145).

Schoen, Belle: 9 women’s hats, purse, men’s knickers (309141).

Schrack, Mrs. Sylvia: winter service uniform and helmet, World War I
(309344).

Sedon, Nancy Lucking: embroidered counterpane (315442).

Sethian, Mrs. Marie: woman’s suit and coat (309682).

Shapero, Mate S.: 623 lottery tickets and premium bonds (315114).

Shaskan, Sidney A.: 1 badge, 34 buttons, World War I (314650).

Sheard, Alvin J.: train order hoop, circa 1892 (315388).

Sheeley, Earl: football helmet, 1916 (310958).

Shelley, Mrs. Mary Ford: woman’s coat, shoes, 2 purses, 4 hats (310283).

Sheridan, Philip H.: 8 coins, Great Britain, 5 U.S. medals, 1 storecard, in
memory of Vincent F. Hartman (314080).

560 / Smithsonian Year 1975
Shipp, Mrs. Winifred Dillion (see Dillion, Dorothy Vernon).

Shoenfeld, Mrs. Rose E.: wedding gown and veil, 1941 (310532).

Shor, Mr. and Mrs. George G., Jr.: 12 political history items (312084).

Shores, Mrs. Lois N.: 40 doll’s glassware and tea set pieces (307203).

Silvey, Ted F.: Underwood typewriter (315434).

Simon, Mrs. Natila: woman’s swim suit, 1941 (308602).

Skinner, Virginia S.: flax brake (315392).

Slonevsky, Leonard: 4 bound booklets, box cover (311321).

Smith, Mrs. Mae Elizabeth: woman’s sweater, girdle (309907).

Snyder, Gloria P.: woman’s sweater, blouse, 2 skirts, 4 coats (309737).

Solomon, Edward C.: man’s shirt and tie (313229).

Sommermeyer, Karl M.: 4 men’s ties (313305).

Spalding, Philip Gould: 37 foreign coins (305875).

Sparrow, Dr. Frederick K.: 25 hand painted porcelain pieces, 19th—20th century
(314093).

Spengler, William F.: 22 coins and banknotes (313700).

Stack, Norman: 93 British tokens, 19th-century (312052).

Stackhouse, William III: monkey wrench, screwdriver (315315) ; 12 wood
working tools (315457).

Staley, J. W.: original film on the raising of a Continental gunboat (311393).

Staley, Mrs. P. C.: cookbook, 1857 (312148).

Starr, Neal L.: battle painting (311390).

Stein, Murray: 4 computer components (308972).

Steinbeck, Mrs. I. B.: school prize medal, fraternity key (315249).

Steinhauer, Mrs. Carl W.: bread slicing machine and documents (315261).

Stelzer, Mrs. Agnes: woman’s suit, 2 dresses (313018).

Stern, Mrs. Edith M.: pottery plate (312078).

Stevenson, Mrs. David: reed organ, 1861 (315255).

Stone, Mr. and Mrs. Gerald E.: woman’s skirt, man’s socks (309679).

Strauss, Mrs. Babette R.: woman’s dress (310012).

Strauss, Adm. Lewis, Estate of (through Lewis H. Strauss): pocket watch
(312741).

Strauss, Lewis H.: block of graphite containing 2 fuel elements (310941);
fuel element prototype (311885) (see also Strauss, Adm. Lewis).

Sullivan, Mrs. Catherine D.: woman’s suit, 1956 (310016).

Sutherland, Mrs. William A.: porcelain figure, circa 1760 (315260).

Sutton, Elsie B.: wedding dress, 1820 (310015).

Swanner, John M.: metal shield (314101).

Swearingen, Brenton: grass trimmer (315427).

Symonds, Mr. and Mrs. Richard C.: rural mail box (314631).

Syz, Dr. Hans: 11 Meissen porcelain pieces, 18th-century (315259).

Taff, D. S.: child’s table knife (310555).

Tall, Joel: tape splicer (312352).

Tarbet, Mrs. Jan F.: woman’s suit and blouse, 1955 (309905).

Taylor, Frank A.: Bicentennial medallion (313372).

Terwilliger, Mr. and Mrs. H. Graves: pair of porcelain figures, 19th-century;
Meissen teapot and lid, circa 1730 (314092).

Thode, Mr. and Mrs. Robert D.: man’s suit, wallet, key case, shoes, suspenders,
4 ties (313481).

Thomas, Jesse B. (see Geohegan, William E.).

Thomas, John Carl: inkwell (313925).

Thomsen, Mrs. Hugo: 6 graphic art tools (310477).

Tice, Mrs. John G.: woman’s swim suit, 1930s (310013).

Tinsley, Harry J., Estate of (through Earl C. Pfeiffer): mariner’s compass,
19th-century (291268).

Torkelson, Mr. and Mrs. E. C.: man’s hat, woman’s brooch, bracelet and
earrings (310123).

Appendix 13. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 561
Trobaugh, Kenneth: 158 Civil War medals, tokens, and storecards (312065,
313701).

Truax, Robert: street car controller (315304).

Tweedy, Mrs. Marjorie Alice Loud: leather sewing kit (310983).

Tyler, Robert O. (see Watt, John, Jr.).

Unknown: 8-day watch (300826).

Valenta, Mr. and Mrs. Ronald (through Herbert Foley Jr.): letter from
Herbert Hoover, letter from Upton Sinclair (315267).

Van Buskirk, James (see Kissinger, John R.).

Van Deusen, John: pin box (314633).

Vanembrugh, William C.: man’s suit, 1941 (313306).

Villastrigo, Edith: 7 anti-war posters, pennant, and ribbon (314623).

Vinson, Mrs. Lucy M.: woman’s suit, halter, slip, gloves, purse, necklace,
and bracelet (309723).

Vogel, Robert M.: railroad safety stove patent model (315446).

Vosepka, Mrs. R. E., Jr.: woman’s dress and jacket, 1947 (309456).

Vosloh, Lynn W.: 1 medal, 9 colonial and ancient coins (314564) ; 17 ancient
Roman coins (314567) ; 7 German family tokens (314570).

Waibel, Mr. and Mrs. Philip G.: girl’s dress, 1958 (309680).

Waite, Mrs. Barbara (see Bradshaw, Lilyan B.).

Wallis, Mrs. J. L.: 4-piece trousseau set, 1925 (308575).

Warshaw, Mr. and Mrs. Harry: 25 pieces of coin glass, 2 commemorative
glass plates (314661); 8 pieces of coin glass (315108).

Waterman, Dr. Glen S. (see Andrews, Mrs. M. T., Jr.).

Watkins, C. Malcolm: pottery vase, 1896-1908 (312734).

Watkins, E. K.: card to a reception for General U. S. Grant, 1879 (312085).

Watkins, Mrs. Joan Pearson: 19 women’s costume and accessory items
(310127).

Watkins, Mrs. Ruth H.: 14 Philadelphia Centennial items (308305).

Watt, Gus H. (see Watt, John Jr.).

Watt, John, Jr., Estate of (through Robert O. Tyler and Gus H. Watt): 2
ballroom chairs (315256, bequest).

Watts, Lt. Col. James L.: rural mail box (314617).

Weaver, Harry F.: cigarette lighter with profile of John L. Lewis (315452).

Weinberg, Hanns: 3 porcelain pieces, circa 1755 (314660).

Weissberger, Dr. Herbert B. (see Millett, Stephen C.).

Welch, Mrs. Yvonne M.: woman’s boots, 1931 (312885).

Wells, David L.: man’s suit, shirt, tie, 1940 (313479).

Wendt, Alma B.: 2 women’s suits (309932).

Whitcomb, Alan J.: original radio message sent from cinopac to Naval
Intelligence in Washington at the time of the attack on Pearl Harbor
(311945).

Whittemore, Mr. and Mrs. Howard E.: spinning wheel, reel, embroidered
pillow cover (314085).

Wickenheiser, Mr. and Mrs. H. E.: 22 clothing accessory items, 48 fashion
textile sketches, 1932 (310036).

Wiesenberger, Arthur (through Sigmund Rothschild) : 12,236 paper currencies
of the German concentration camp in Theresienstadt, World War II
(315122).

Wiggins, Mrs. Isabel Graves (see Robertson, Mrs. Anabel Graves).

Wigutoff, Mrs. Bessie R.: 6 table covers, pillow cases, sachet case, and pin
cushion (315254).

Wilbur, Mr. and Mrs. R. Lloyd: man’s suit, shirt, woman’s dress (309404).

Williams, David: 100 cable samples (313046).

Willis, Mrs. Minna: 13 women’s costume and accessory items (309403).

Willson, Kenneth A.: Japanese Army uniform (314597).

Wilson, Rowland S.: 737 coins, tokens, and paper currencies (312033, 312055).

562 / Smithsonian Year 1975
Wilson, Mrs. Stephen B.: 4 pairs women’s shoes (310126).

Winans, Edwin O.: woman’s magazine, 1906 (313424).

Wise, Alice A.: military induction order, 1918 (308902).

Wolff, Donald E.: Model A Ford, 1931 (315444).

Woodward, Mrs. Dorothy: shoes, 1958 (313223).

Woodward, Mrs. Stanley: Army dress uniform cape (308570).

Woolmington, Mrs. Ruth W.: taffeta dress fabric (314086).

Workinger, Mrs. Hilda M.: electric toaster (311318).

Wright, Mrs. Janice G.: Confederate States overcoat (310956).

Wulfsberg, Einar T.: service hat, pre-World War II (314466).

Wynyard, Martin and Ruth: 14 porcelain pieces (314662).

Yerger, Mrs. Merten: woman’s gloves, purse (311816).

Young, John T., Jr.: men’s shoes, 1925 (312888).

Zierdt, Dr. Charles H.: cast iron microtome, in memory of Dr. Charles H.
Zierdt (308059).

Zorach, Tessim: hooked rug, 19th-century (312423).

Zwibel, Burton C.: 21 German Nazi edged weapons and accessories (309977).

Donors to the National Collections

INSTITUTIONAL

Agence Philatelique de la Republique de Guinee, Guinea: 14 mint and used
postage stamps (313377).

Aitutaki Post Office, Cook Islands: 19 mint and used postage stamps (313378).

American Negro Commemorative Society: 10 silver commemorative medals
(315121).

American Physical Therapy Association (through Royce P. Noland): 1
Reconstruction Aide cape (312935).

Asesora Tecnica Filatelica, Colombia (through Mrs. Beatriz Pantoja de Gil):
7 First-Day covers (312730).

Atchison, Topeka and Santa Fe Railway Co. (through Bill Burk): 17 railroad
track tools and equipment (315262).

Ayer Abh International, N. W. (through Robert C. Bach): 400,000 advertising
page proofs (314679).

Barnes Co., W. F. and John: table saw, 2 jig saws (315436).

Barra Bosadacion, Inc. (through Robert L. McNeil, Jr.) : page of Pe by
Theodore Roosevelt, with bullet hole in it; page struck by bullet while in
his vest pocket (312087).

Bell Telephone of Pennsylvania (through R. H. Haase): telephone switching
unit and test wagon (312603).

Beloit College (through Robert O. Garrett): 7 physical science items (312090).

Bhutan Stamp Agency, Ltd., Bahamas: 24 mint postage stamp (312728).

Britannia Commemorative Society, Ltd., Great Britain: 4 silver commemorative
medals (315323).

Bronx Community College (through Andrew Ciofalo): fluoroscope, transit,
Y-level (314672).

Burundi Philatelic Agency: 23 mint and used postage stamps (312727).

California, University of: Lawrence Hall of Science (through Laurie Eason):
control console, beam deflector, ion source, 2 electron source probes, 35 ion
source cones (313045).

Carlisle Colonial Minute Men, Inc. (through Robert R. Heath): 2
commemorative medals (313343).

China Directorate General of Posts, Taiwan (through S. P. Wang): 12 mint
postage stamps (312725).

Chocolate Information Council (through Richard T. O’Connell) : 63 item
chocolate exhibit (315132).

Appendix 13. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 563
Cigar Makers International Union of America (through Mrs. Mildred Dehn
Yerkes): adding machine and instruction booklet (313270).

City Stores Co. (through Louis G. Melchior): 8 mathematical items (314157).

Citizens National Bank (through John P. Hines): hand-painted Bicentennial
commemorative plate (312077).

Columbia University: 4 meters, spectroscope, heliostat (315390).

Commerce, U.S. Department of: Maritime Administration (through T. J.
Patterson, Jr.): 6 pieces of china from the SS Jeremiah O’Brien (315428).

Congressional Quarterly, Inc. (through John O’Hearn): paper cutter, 19th-
century (310999).

Cook Islands Philatelic Bureau: 20 mint and used postage stamps, 4 mint
souvenir sheets, 2 First-Day covers (312717).

Cordis Co. (through John Sheeham): 2 bloodline sets, 2 epicardial leads,
2 artificial kidneys, 1 Omni-Stanicon pacer (306393).

Crossley-Premier Engines Limited, Great Britain: gas engine, 1887 (314636).

Danbury Mint (through W. J. Strausser): 2 commemorative medals (314568).

Defense, U.S. Department of: revolving machine gun (310072); 2 combat
field packs (311319). Department of the Air Force: 2 academy swords with
scabbards and cases (313185). Department of the Navy: shelter half tent
(314595); (through Rear Adm. E. J. Fahy): 40-foot hydrofoil (314002).

Denmark Ministry of Public Works (through T. W. Madsen): 40 mint postage
stamps (310520).

District of Columbia Inaugural Committee (through Thornell E. Page): 6
Inauguration items, 1975 (315314).

D. C. Transit, Inc. (through O. Roy Chalk): electric street car, 1898, trailer,
1892, locomotive, 1876 (252681).

Dubai General Post Office: 3 mint postage stamps (312714).

Eleutherian Mills-Hagley Foundation (through Dr. Walter J. Heacock): ship
model Patrick Henry (315377).

Exxon Corporation (through Jack P. Shannon): ship model SS MANHATTAN
(315440).

First Pennsylvania Bank (through Edward R. Manley): pair of bank doors,
transom and frame, teller gate (314655).

Fitchburg State College (through J. E. Carpenter): Blaisdell planer, circa 1870
(312740).

Franklin Mint: 34 silver commemorative medals (314079, 314081); (through
William F. Krieg): silver commemorative medal (313373).

Galaxy Medals (through Richard J. Summer): bronze commemorative medal
(314566).

Howard University (through Dr. Owen D. Nichols): Bachelor of Arts Hood
(315326).

Illinois, University of (through Ralph Simmons): 11 early physics apparatus
(312091).

Information Agency, U.S. (through George Jacob): multiband portable
receiver, circa 1962 (312468).

Interior, U.S. Department of the: National Park Service: 2 textile furniture
covers (315431); (through David H. Wallace): 1 gasoline engine (315325).

International Fraternal Commemorative Society: 7 silver commemorative
medals (315301).

International Harvester Corp. (through John Dierbeck): toy tractor (315425).

International Nickel Co., Inc. (through C. R. Cupp): electron probe
micro-analyzer (312204).

Israel Ministry of Posts: 8 First-Day covers (312726).

Jantzen, Inc. (through Donald L. Smith): woman’s swim suit, circa 1917, man’s
swim suit, circa 1920 (307627).

Jonathan Logan, Inc. (through Bernard Wult): 2 women’s dresses, 1974
(310306).

564 / Smithsonian Year 1975
Judaic Heritage Society (through Fred Bertram) 24 silver commemorative
medals (314573).

Justice, U.S. Department of: WU. S. Marshal's Office: 5 firearms (306396,
311473).

Kalamazoo Public Museum (through Alexis A. Praus): 120 post cards (312718).

Keuffel & Esser Co. (through Marsh W. Bull): 7 items of surveying equipment
(306012).

Knights Templar of the U.S.A. (through Paul C. Rodenhauser): 14 conclave
badges (313374).

Krasney Associates (through Samuel Krasney): 2 gold stamps (315251).

Lanello Reserves, Inc. (through Randall King) and Silver Creations, Ltd.
(through Richard M. Moskow): Atlantic cable sample, 1858 (312154).

Lenox, Inc. (through Robert J. Sullivan): 2 plates, 1974 (315131).

Library of Congress: 6 early 19th-century scripts (313348); (through Nathan R.
Einhorn) : 62 coins, paper monies, medals, and related materials (313177).

Masury Paint Co. (through George J. Wise): 3 cans of paint, 1875-1930
(315439).

McDowell-Wellman Engineering Co. (through A. J. Lichtinger): model of
Hulett unloader (315263).

Monaco Office des Emissions de Timbres-Poste (through H. Chiavassa): 14
mint postage stamps, 4 mint souvenir sheets (312715).

Montgomery Ward (through Frederic Giersch): woman’s coat, 1940-1948
(309683).

Museum of Science and Industry (through Daniel M. MacMaster): 2 surveyor’s
compasses, pyrometer (271855).

National Aeronautics and Space administration: Goddard Space Flight Center:
1 atomic clock (315432). Lewis Research Center (through James J. Modarelli) :
1 thermionic converter (312449).

National Coal Association (through Ralph B. Harry): folding machine (315437).

National Commemorative Society: 41 silver commemorative medals (315322).

National Grain and Feed Association (through Raymond Bohnsack): 24 grain
specimens (315429).

New York State Department of Transportation (through W. C. Burnett):
upper-chord section from bow-string truss bridge, circa 1876 (315387).

New Zealand Post Office Philatelic Bureau: 8 mint postage stamps (312722).

Norwegian Embassy (through K. Nergaard) : 2 First-Day covers, 1 post card,

4 mint postage stamps (311384).

Pittsburgh, University of (through John M. Nutt): 9 civil engineering tools
(315134).

Presidential Art Medals, Inc. (through R. James Harper): 20 commemorative
medals (315248).

Prince Georges County Circuit Court, Maryland (through Charles E. Callow
and George B. Gifford): Circuit Court seal, 1907-1974 (312738).

Professional Insurers and Associates, Inc. (through Vergil M. Agostinelli) :

1 SCM typetronic, 1 papertape automated data typing system with manuals
and handbook (313918).

Reliance Graphics (through William D. Robertson), Sorg Printing Co., and
Strathmore Co.: 19 wood type fonts, in the name of Printing Industries of
America (313511).

Schmidt International, Inc., Oscar: ukelin with bow (312073).

Silver Creations, Ltd. (see Lanello Reserves, Inc.).

Singer Co.: 7 Friden calculators (313935).

Society of Medalists (through Mrs. Mary Louisa Cram): 3 bronze
commemorative medals (315324).

Sony Corp. (through Akio Morita): 3 desk calculators and related materials
(313986) ; 12 electrical artifacts (314670).

Sorg Printing Co. (see Reliance Graphics).

Appendix 13. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 565
Sperman Metal Specialties (through Jacob H. Sperman): 2 linear air bearings
and connectors (315441).

Sperry-Univac (through A. E. Adams): 4 reports on computer systems (312206).

Stack’s: 602 ancient coins (312047, 312056, 315395, 315396, 315397, 315398,
315403, 315404); 767 commemorative medals (312035, 312042, 312045,
312050, 313345, 313346, 313347, 313352, 313369); 510 badges and medals

(312034, 312038, 312040, 312046, 312054); 170 tokens, medals, storecards,
and gamecounters (312051, 312053, 315386); 29 ancient, medieval, and
modern coins (312057); 136 foreign medals and plaques (312059); 115
foreign coins and tokens (312041); 58 depression scrip and clearing-house
certificates (312036); 9 historical materials concerning the history of banking
(313370); 6 emergency banknotes (315104); 1 Bank of the United States
check, 1819 (315376).

State, U.S. Department of: Office of the Chief of Protocol: 35 foreign
decorations (306173); (through Jane A. Guilbault): 7 State Gifts to the
Vice President of the United States (314032). Office of Philippine Affairs:
seal and flag of the High Commissioner with staff and picture (314561).

Strathmore Co. (see Reliance Graphics).

Sweden Postens Filateliavdelning: 12 First-Day covers, 15 mint postage stamps,
10 booklets of postage stamps (311045).

Texaco, Inc. (through E. W. McNealy): RW-300 computer console and
components (312146).

Thunder Bridge Colonial Muster (through Robert R. Health): 6 commemorative
medals (313353, 314070).

Treasury, U. S. Department of the: Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms Bureau:

39 firearms and accessories (306420, 311474, 311477). Bureau of Customs:

2 submachine guns, assorted parts, and accessories (306418). Bureau of
Engraving and Printing (through James A. Conlon): 571 plate proof sheets
of U.S. postage stamps (312723). Internal Revenue Service: 1 semi-automatic
pistol (306249).

United Federation of Postal Clerks (through William E. Price and John F.
McClelland) : Post Office vehicle, 1941 (315456).

United Nations Postal Administration (through Ole Hamann): 350 mint
postage stamps (312724).

Warner & Swasey Co. (through C. T. Blake): dividing engine, circa 1895,
related materials, box of parts (313774).

Waterbury Companies, Inc.: 10,000 military insignia, belt plates, civilian
buckles, jewelry, and metal stampings (314686); (through L. P. Sperry): 2
eagle ornament dies (314649).

White Stag (through Joan Christensen) : 2 women’s tennis dresses, tennis
sweater (310307).

NATIONAL PORTRAIT GALLERY

Donors of Financial Support

The Barra Foundation The Chauncey and Marion Deering
Copley Newspapers McCormick Foundation

Mrs. Anne B. Harrison Mrs. John Steinman

William Jamison Three anonymous donors

Mrs. Katie Louchheim

Donors to the Collection

Mrs. Margaret Garber Blue William F. Draper

Mrs. Fredson Bowers Lloyd Kirkham Garrison

Mrs. Christopher Clarkson The Edith Gregor Halpert Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. Jack Dempsey Walker Lewis

566 / Smithsonian Year 1975
Mrs. Katie Louchheim The Helena Rubinstein Foundation
The Chauncey and Marion Deering Mrs. Ann Thornton
McCormick Foundation Miss Ethel Turnbull
Margaret Carnegie Miller Two anonymous donors
Mrs. Herbert Lee Pratt

MUSEUM PROGRAMS

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION ARCHIVES

Donors to the Collections

Mrs. Charles G. Abbot: the papers of Charles G. Abbot

Anthony J. Conway: National Zoological Park newspaper clipping file
Mrs. Marguerite Kellogg: the papers of A. Remington Kellogg
Society of Systematic Zoology: the records of the Society

NOTE: The Smithsonian Archives has also been designated as the continuing
depository for the records of the Society of Systematic Zoology.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION LIBRARIES

Donors to the Collections

Abbot, Mrs. Charles G.: 50 volumes

Athena Publications: 3 volumes

Auerbach, Louis: Page. Aviation Engines.

Belgian Embassy: Peeters. The Organ and its Music.

Boeing Aerospace Company: You in Space (50 copies).

Burks, Dr. Barnard D. 57 volumes.

Carmichael, Mrs. Leonard: 175 volumes.

Chokoniewski, Krzysztof: Poles against the V Weapons and Polish Wings in
the West.

Dibner, Bern: 25,000 volumes in the history of science and technology.

Ericksen, Mary: Collection of anthropology books.

Hirohito, Emperor of Japan: Some Hydrozoans of the Bonin Islands.

Krombein, Dr. Karl V.: Several entomological journals.

Kushner, Ervan F.: Two local guides to mineral collecting.

Lellinger, Dr. David: Several monographs on botany.

Library of Congress: Microfilm newspaper file “Civilian Saucer Intelligence,
1947-1966.”

Little, Elbert L.: Several botanical volumes.

Loening, Albert P., Jr.: Aeronautical books and scrapbooks.

Mason, Dr. Brian: Several volumes on lunar and earth sciences.

Meggers, Dr. Betty: 123 volumes on dolls.

Murray, Ann W.: Collection.

Postl, Anton: Issues of “Der Alpengarten.”

Ripley, S. Dillon: Several historical and anthropological volumes.

Sears, W. R.: Collected papers.

Sheldon, Bert: Collection of Indian materials.

Smith, Dr. Lyman: Several journals and monographs.

Stathers, George: Rhode. Gates Flying Circus.

Stewart, Dr. T. Dale: Several volumes on anthropology.

White, John S., Sr.: Several volumes on geology.

Zervos, Christian: 20 volumes on Pablo Picasso.

Appendix 13. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 567
PUBLIC SERVICE

DIVISION OF PERFORMING ARTS

Donors of Financial Support
AFL-CIO

American Airlines

American Revolution
Bicentennial Administration

Department of Commerce

Department of Labor

Department of Transportation
General Foods Corporation
National Park Service

National Endowment for the Arts
Schubert Foundation

OFFICE OF ELEMENTARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION

Donor of Financial Support

DeWitt Wallace/Reader’s Digest Scholarships

OFFICE OF SMITHSONIAN SYMPOSIA AND SEMINARS

Donors of Financial Support

Mrs. David Challinor: Bicentennial symposium program
Institute for Psychiatry and Foreign Affairs: Seminar series program

READING IS FUNDAMENTAL, INC.

Donors of Financial Support

Edna McConnell Clark Foundation

U.S. Office of Education

Vincent Astor Foundation

Ford Motor Company Fund

The Lilly Endowment, Inc.

Hattie M. Strong Foundation

National Home Library Foundation

Charles E. Culpeper Foundation

Texaco, Inc.

Eugene and Agnes E. Meyer
Foundation

Morris and Gwendolyn Cafritz
Foundation

American Telephone and
Telegraph Co.

Chase Manhattan Bank

CBS Foundation, Inc.

Sherman Fairchild Foundation

New York Life Insurance Company

Continental Oil Company

Reliance Group, Incorporated

Avon Products Foundation, Inc.

International Telephone and
Telegraph Co.

General Electric Company

AFL-CIO

Maurice R. Robinson Fund, Inc.

Allied Chemical Foundation

Walter A. Klein Co., Ltd.

ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT

HORTICULTURAL SERVICES DIVISION

Donors of Financial Support

Women’s Committee of the Smithsonian Associates.

Donors to the Collections

Bergman, Fred, Raraflora Nursery: Miscellaneous plant material.
Collins, Mr. and Mrs. Lester: 20 authentic Victorian wickets.

568 / Smithsonian Year 1975
Crowe, Jimmie L., U.S. Botanic Gardens: Tropical plant material.

Crosswhite, Frank S.: Agave murpheyi.

DuPont, Mrs. Felix A.: 2 Kentia palms, Howea forsteriana.

Elin, Charles: Herbaceous and hardy groundcovers.

Huhn, Christopher, Kingwood Center: Amaryllis.

Hyland, Dr. Howard, USDA: Complete set of USDA Plant Inventories.

Jensen, Mrs. Belva: Hardy plant material.

MacGruder, Dr. Ray: 6 Clumps of Digitalis purpurea var. alba and
flowering bulbs.

Marsh, Sylvester G, U.S. National Arboretum: Miscellaneous plant material.

National Zoological Park: Miscellaneous plant material.

Ransom, Mrs. Richard B.: Night Blooming Cereus.

Roberts, Fred, Kinkwood Center: Dahlias.

Seibert, Dr. Russell J., Longwood Gardens: Tropical plant material.

Studebaker, Russell: Miscellaneous tropicals.

Tyler, The Honorable William R., Dumbarton Oaks: 2 trees of
Nerium oleander.

Wester, Dr. Horace, National Capital Parks: 12 Ulmus americana,
6 Ulmus procera.

DONORS TO OTHER SMITHSONIAN PROJECTS

Miss Harriett Anderson
Anonymous

The Arcadia Foundation

Mrs. Frederic C. Bartlett

Mr. and Mrs. David Bechtel
Beneficial Foundation

Mrs. Taylor Black

Ms. Merry Lee Bott

Ms. Elizabeth Hastie Bramsen
Mr. D. B. Brian

The Morris & Gwendolyn Cafritz Foundation
CBS Foundation, Inc.

Charron Foundation

Dana Corporation Foundation
Mr. Jean Delacour

El Paso Natural Gas Company
Mr. Alfred U. Elser, Jr.

Milton S. Erlanger, Trust

Mr. Harold Fallon

First National Bank in Palm Beach
The Charles Robert Gens Foundation
The B. F. Goodrich Company
Josephine Graf Foundation

Miss Carol H. Hallingby

Miss Anne Hibler

Mr. Louis W. Hill, Jr.

Atwater Kent Foundation, Inc.

F. M. Kirby Foundation, Inc.

Mr. Lawrence M. S. Kroger

Mr. Harold F. Linder

Mr. I. D. Matheson

James A. MacDonald Foundation
National Bank of Detroit

Appendix 13. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 569
Donors to Other Smithsonian Projects—Cont.

Edward John Noble Foundation

Olin Corporation Charitable Trust
Onate Elementary School (3rd grade)

PACCAR Foundation

Mr. Robert S. Pace

Philip Morris Incorporated
The Pioneer Foundation, Inc.
Myron F. Ratcliffe Foundation
Anne S. Richardson Fund

Josephine C. Robinson Foundation

Sarah H. and Matthew Rosenhaus Peace Foundation, Inc.

Southern Mills, Inc.
The Symonds Foundation
Truland Foundation

Trust Company of Georgia Foundation

United Steelworkers
Walco National Corporation
Miss Marilyn M. Watson

Westinghouse Electric Corporation

Charles W. Wright Foundation of Badger Meter, Inc.

NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART

DONORS OF WORKS OF ART

Joseph Albers

Anonymous donors

Madame Jean Arp

Mrs. Williams Beale

Ferdinand Lammot Belin Fund
Mr. and Mrs. William Benedict
Thomas Hart Benton

Fritz Blumenthal

Ailsa Mellon Bruce Fund

Mrs. Gilbert W. Chapman

Mr. and Mrs. Ralph F. Colin
William Nelson Cromwell Fund
The Epstein Estate

Mrs. Irving Gumbel

Sheigla Hartman

Philip Hofer

Peter W. Josten

Harry and Margery Kahn

Mr. and Mrs. Jacob Kainen
Samuel H. Kress Foundation
The Rt. Rev. Frederic C. Lawrence
H. H. Walker Lewis

Robert M. Light & Co., Inc.

570 / Smithsonian Year 1975

Robert M. Light

Dr. and Mrs. Ronald R. Lubritz
Asbjorn R. Lunde

Martha Martin

Andrew W. Mellon Fund

Paul Mellon

Adolph Caspar Miller Fund
Mr. and Mrs. N. Richard Miller
Ralph T. Millet, Jr.

Isabel Padro

Pepita Milmore Memorial Fund
Mrs. Joseph W. Rogers, Jr.
Cornelius Van S. Roosevelt
Lessing J. Rosenwald

Robert H. and Clarice Smith
Stephen Spector

William H. Speiller

Michael Straight

Mrs. Walter Tittle

Mr. and Mrs. Arthur E. Vershbow
Washington Printmakers Inc.
June Wayne

Angus Whyte

APPENDIX 14. List of Volunteers Who Served the
Smithsonian Institution in Fiscal Year 1975

A tremendous debt of gratitude is owed the many individuals named in
the following lists who served the Smithsonian Institution so faithfully
this past year. Their duties were many and varied and their able per-
formance greatly aided the Institution in carrying out its mandate.

EEE OF THE SECRETARY, SPECIAL PROJECTS
CURATOR OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION BUILDING

Sarah Adams Michel Monsour
William O. Baxter Ira S. Nordlicht
Josephine L. Bottozzi Mrs. Donald Notman
Mrs. Imogene Baumgardner Christine O’Donnell
Lee Cramp Ann W. Pellerin
Claudia Fiester Peter M. Pennoyer
Cynthia Hardwick Mary Bryan Powell
Joan Hart Ann Rice

Gary Heurick Beatrice Rosenberg
James Kauffman David Sandy

Peter Lyons David Sharp

John C. Miller Charlotte Taylor
David Mills Holly Williams

BERM@E SOF THE UNDER SECRETARY

HORTICULTURAL SERVICES

Edwina Greenburg Marian Orenstein
Ray Heller Melanie Samuelson
Dale Koch Herbert W. Spruill
Tina McChrystal Joan Sterrett

Hazel Miller

OFFICE OF PRINTING AND PHOTOGRAPHIC SERVICES
Peggy Kauders Loretta Ruhr Ann Zelle

SCIENCE
CHESAPEAKE BAY CENTER FOR ENVIRONMENTAL STUDIES
Dorothy Abney Sharon Tebben
Patricia Ball Aileen Thomas
Zoe Covel Sherry Troxler
Cathy Pringle Virginia Williams

Appendix 14. List of Volunteers in Fiscal Year 1975 / 571
NATIONAL AIR AND SPACE MUSEUM

Preservation and Restoration Division
SILVER HILL FACILITY
Guides Donald Berliner Harvey Paige
NASM Blueprint Service Daniel Rush
Saturday Morning Workshop

Joseph Cady
Ann Cady
Byron Cooke
Leroy Ellis

David Gibson
Mark Holdridge
Tyrone Seagers
Robert Stony

Potomac Antique Aero Squadron (Restoration of Aeronca C-2)

William Barr
Joseph Cady
Albert Cline
Nathan Frank
Harold Hanson

NASM Office of Eduction

Mrs. Nancy Barrett
Mrs. Pat Costello
Mrs. Fay Fletcher

Mr. George B. DeGennaro

Mrs. Mary E. Heimbach
Mrs. Marion Hoppe
Mrs. Carol James

Mr. Carl Jones

Mrs. Mary Lou Luff
Mr. Jean Mackenzie
Ms. Elizabeth McGarry
Mrs. Mary Maus

Mrs. Joyce Melocik
Mr. John C. Phillips
Mr. Brian K. Pierce

Richard Jiran
William Murphy
Harvey Paige
James Birchfield
George Haliscak

Mrs. Susan R. Pierce
Mrs. Petricia Raabe
Mrs. Isabel Shannon
Mrs. Katie Simpson
Mrs. Jane Smith

Mr. Paul Spiess

Mrs. Jeanie Steece
Mrs. Judy Stembel
Mrs. Gay Swofford
Mr. Robert Taylor
Mrs. Bernice P. Thorpe
Mrs. Jane Anne Ward
Mrs. Lois Windsberg
Mr. Rick Feldman
Mr. John Mercer

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY

Department of Anthropology

Joan Amico
Kristen Austin
Julia Barber
Eilene Brown
Julita Canal
Laura Cavey
Beth Chambers
Carolyn Clapp
Jennifer Clark
Bruce Craig
Aron Crowell
Stephanie Damadio
Vivien Delima
John Dennis
Ann Devlin

572 / Smithsonian Year 1975

Nancy Ettlinger
Vuran Guttridge
Hillary Hamilton
Ann Hildreth
Margaret Kadziel
Dora Y. Lee
Leslie Levin

Lee Lewis

Linda Lichliter
Julie Linowes
Russanne Low
Margaret Loewinger
Ruth McGinn
Leslie S. Pray
Tom Pickenpaugh
Lon Prather Martha Sharma
Molly Rahe Nathan Smith
Nancy P. Register Constance Walker
Alise Schlosser Vivian Wearne
Douglas W. Schnurrenberter

Department of Botany

Meryt Allmendinger Janet Hammond

Laurie Berdette Peter Hartzler
Lynn Clark Mary Lazerou
Linda Crandall Cathy Pasquale

Chris Evensen

Department of Entomology

Mr. Stuart Baker
Mr. Ben Cowen
Mrs. La Verne Erwin

Dr. George W. Rawwon
Miss Eve Silverstone

Department of Invertebrate Zoology

Irene Jewett (Mollusks)
Laura Kahler (Mollusks)

Tamara Vance (Echinoderms)

Department of Mineral Sciences

DIVISION OF PETROLOGY AND VOLCANOLOGY

John Eanat Mark Holmes

DIVISION OF MINERALOGY

Mark Barton
Esther Claffey
Nancy Gross

Department of Paleobiology

Calvin Allison

Kim Bernhardt

Alta Copeland

Paula Frankenberger
Susan Grisanti

Enid Hotton

Susan Edmonds
Bruce Meyer
Willow Wight

Jane Knapp
Tim Peek

Mrs. C. Phillips
Kurt Savoie
Ann Sutton
John Wolberg

Department of Vertebrate Zoology

Francine Alexander
Robert Bernstein
Anita Brosius
Cathleen M. Coleman
Renee Dagseth
Odette Magnére de Baez
Anne Curtis
Elizabeth Donnelly
Amy Goebel

Bonnie Kniebler
Emily Luttrell
Mintha S. Manning

Appendix 14. List of Volunteers in Fiscal Year 1975 / 573

Frances Mathews
Rebecca D. McClung
Susan Monroe
Nancy Moran
David Olson

Kent Redford
Becka Schad
Pamela Snively
Kathy Stieff

Judy Thomson
Mary C. Von Story
Peter Waldau
NMNH Office of Education

DOCENTS

Mrs. Mary Margaret Abraham
Mrs. Shirley C. Adams
Mrs. Menda Ahart
Mrs. Barbara Alprin
Mr. Burton E. Ashley
Mrs. Claudia L. Bailey
Mrs. Gayle Baumgart
Mrs. Janice Beattie
Mrs. Ginny Bennett
Mrs. Merylee Bennett
Mrs. Edna J. Bente
Mrs. Mildred Birge
Mrs. Mary L. Brien
Mrs. Jacqueline C. Brown
Mrs. Elizabeth Bruck
Mrs. Lianne I. Burke
Mrs. Pat Carson

Mrs. Glenn Chase

Mrs. Jeannine Clark
Miss Julia Clark

Mr. Everett H. Clocker
Mrs. Nancy Cohen
Mrs. Molly Coleman
Mrs. Lee S. Collier
Mrs. Mary Cone

Mrs. Margit R. Cook
Mrs. Harriet Copan
Mrs. Marge Dawson
Mrs. Vivien Delima
Mrs. Rosilyn K. dePercin
Mrs. Emily S. Doherty
Mrs. Karen Duncker
Mrs. Permelia Eggerton
Mrs. C. Lynne Eppes
Mrs. Roz Fenton

Mrs. Bertha P. Ferman
Mrs. Betty E. Fischer
Mrs. Mary C. Fisher
Mrs. Marge Fleck

Mrs. Carolyn Fletcher
Mrs. Barbara H. Ford
Mrs. Marty Fowler
Mrs. Marilyn M. Franck
Mrs. Helen Susan Frye
Mrs. Mabel Margaret Gerber
Mrs. Ella M. Giesey
Mrs. Evelyn A. Gilstein
Mrs. Joy Gold

Mrs. Wendy Goulston
Mrs. Betty Jane Gray
Mrs. Nancy Greenberg
Mrs. Pat Greenfield
Mrs. Florence Gruchy

574 / Smithsonian Year 1975

Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.

Edith Grunnet

Anna Hairston
Gayle Hann

Diane D. Hartney
Martha Hatleberg
Vita D. Heineman
Judith G. Herman
Margie Hess

Marge Hoath
Bernice M. Hornbeck
Dorothy Howard
Julie Jackson -
Marilyn Johnston
Priscilla Joslyn

Sally Kabat

June Karamessines
Henrietta L. Keller
Sally P. Kirchner
Joyce E. Kirk
Barbara Kristal
Paula B. Kugelman
Ann Dusel Kuhns
Dorothea Langhorne
Joyce Laramore
Lynne Latchaw
Constance T. Lee
Barbara B. Levin

Mr. Justin C. Lewis

Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.

Charlotte Linde

Ruth Long

Dorothy N. Lorance
Peggy Mahood

Edith P. Manor

Rosina Mason

Wendy Anne McAlister
Pearl B. McDonald
Rose Ann McHenry
Beatrice B. Meyerson

Mr. David Miller

Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.

Peggy Miller
Doris Mintzes
Mair E. Moody
Fern Moore

Jean E. Moran

Pat Morris

Joan Muller
Sheryl Myse
Hilde Newberry
Mary Catharine O’Connell
Fran O'Leary
Carol C. Overman
Elaine F. Parks
Susanne S. Patch
Mrs. Lillian T. Peterson
Mrs. Carroll Pierce

Mrs. Colleen Mathews Quick

Mrs. Nancy P. Register
Mrs. Ginny Reister
Mrs. Ellen P. Richards
Mrs. Barbara G. Riddell
Mrs. Virginia S. Roach
Mrs. Barbara Roob
Mrs. Beverly R. Rosen
Mrs. Florence Saunders
Mrs. Mary Jane Saylor
Mrs. Clare Schweickart
Mrs. Sarah S. Sears
Mrs. Dolores A. Shaw
Mrs. Gladys Sibbald
Mrs. Winona Steed
Mrs. Nan Stockman
Mrs. Elizabeth Stockton

DISCOVERY ROOM

Frances I. Apperson
Marilyn Barksdale
Carolyn Boswell
Judy Cestone
Deborah Clark
Stacy Clark
Gloria Cooper
Barbara Czerw
Carmen Dieguez
Mary Edwards
Marcia Estabrook
James Ewing
Ruth Ewing

Bret Fisherkeller
Barbara Foley
Roger D. Forman
Dorothy Galvin
Carolyn Gecan
Sam Glymph
Sanford Goldstein
Eva Goode

Jenny Grimes
Joan Groobert
Peggy Hamman
Doreen Hitchcock
Brenda Howard
Eileen Jacobson
Janet Kragness
Claudia Lamm
Nancy Lehmann

Appendix 14. List of Volunteers in Fiscal Year 1975 / 575

Mrs. Ann Suydam

Mrs. Nancy W. Tartt
Mrs. Patricia W. Taylor
Mrs. Jeanne B. Teagarden
Mrs. Kathryn G. Telep
Mrs. Susan W. Torok
Mrs. Cynthia Ullman
Mr. Armand I. Vallieres
Mrs. Edna Van Grack
Mrs. Deborah M. Weigle
Mrs. Mary Welch

Mrs. Mike Wetzel

Mrs. Carolyn Wilkinson
Mrs. Patricia D. Willis
Mrs. Bea Winne

Mrs. Mary T. Winters
Mrs. Eleanor Wolff

Mrs. Linda Worthington
Mrs. Betty Yassin

Brita Littlewood
Eric Littlewood
Martin Manning
Jo McCall

Eileen McCormick
Gerald McGlone
Karen Millar
Barbara Miller
Colin Murray
John Nay

Myrna Nay
Carol Nelson
Barbara Nichols
Ethel Nietmann
Stephanie Porteous
Julia Punch
Tricia Robertson
Kenneth Samuel
Virginia Santore
Peter Shay

Judy Smaldone
Sandra Smith
Edwin Sofinowski
June Southard
Ada Tannen

Jane Von Culin
Bonnie Walker
June Walker
Amy Weintraub
SMITHSONIAN ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY

Moonwatch Volunteer Program

It is particularly significant that the contributions of Moonwatch Volun-
teers be acknowledged in this annual report as the program officially
terminated on June 30, 1975.

Conceived and implemented in 1956 by the distinguished scientist, Dr.
Fred L. Whipple, Moonwatch was the first fully operational satellite
tracking network. Accomplished through the efforts of hundreds of
Volunteers around the globe (some of whom have participated for
eighteen years), the establishment and success of this program is un-
paralleled. Data compiled has been used regularly in the Smithsonian
and international research programs, affording science a better under-
standing of the upper atmosphere and the Earth’s gravitational field.

The asterisk (*) follows the names of those individuals who have served
as Volunteers in the Moonwatch Program for fifteen years and over.

Mr. William B. Albrecht* Mr. Niel D. Butterworth
Dr. John B. Allen Mr. Harold Burnham
Mrs. Antoinette Almaguer Mr. Neville Kenneth Byford
Mr. Hans Arber Mr. Carmelito P. Calimbas
Rev. P. Vincenzo Arcidiancono, S. J. Mr. Ernesto Calpo*

Mr. Dante Avalle Mr. Richard J. Calver
Prof. Dipl. Ing. Erwin Baier Dr. Percy Carr

Prof. Fred Ball, Jr.* Mr. Piero Carrara

Mr. D. R. Barnwell Mr. Michael P. Charette
Mr. Howard O. Barron* Mr. T. G. Childerhouse
Mr. John Bartholdi Prof. Gheorghe Chis
Mr. Bennett L. Basore Mr. Malcolm Church
Mr. John Beahm Mrs. Bonny Clark (Dunney)
Ms. Mary Beahm Dr. Thomas Clark

Mrs. Barbara Beaty* Mr. H. W. Clarkson

Dr. A. C. Beresford* Mr. Peter Collins

Mr. Friedemann Berth Mr. T. R. Cooper

Mr. Eric Besser Mr. Gabriel Contreras
Mr. B. Bohlman Jay Corazza

Dr. Maxim Bohlman Mr. L. D. Crossan

Mr. Hermann Bohnhardt Mr. Ralph Dakin

Mr. J. H. Botham Mr. Alan Davey

Mr. Bruce R. Bowman Mr. J. Der Kinderen
Mr. Gavin Boyd Mr. J. J. C. M. Dolne
Mr. Ralph Brichta Mr. A. J. Dorreman

Mr. I. R. H. Brickett Dr. Alexander Dounce
Mr. David M. Brierley Mr. Charles Drake

Mr. Bob Brinegar Mr. Ernest Drumm

Mr. Harold Brock Mr. Jerry Durand

Rev. John C. Brost, O.S.B.* Mr. I. L. Durant

Mr. W. P. Brown Mrs. H. Du Toit

Mr. J. A. Bruwer Mr. J. P. Du Toit

Mr. John Buehler Mr. Arthur Eberhardt
Dr. Ralph L. Buice, Jr.* Mr. Russell D. Eberst
Mr. Ron Burgin Mr. H. Eggen

Mr. Clark Butler Mr. Demetrius P. Elias

576 / Smithsonian Year 1975
Mr. Gary Emerson

Prof. Richard H. Emmons*
Prof. Paul R. Engle

Mr. Christopher Engelhardt
Mr. Dallas Espenschied*
Mr. Sherwood Espenschied*
Mr. Lewellyn Evans*

Mr. Carroll L. Evans, Jr.
Mr. David L. Fallert

Mr. Norman L. Fallert
Miss Winifred L. Fallert
Mr. Julian Felkey

Dr. W. S. Finsen

Dr. Henry D. Fiske

Mr. Edwin E. Friton

Mr. Robert Gamino

Mr. Robert Gallegos

Mr. Victor Gambling

Mr. Rueben Garcia

Mr. Paul Gardner

Mr. Andrew Gassman

Dr. Gottfried Gerstbach
Mr. Donald Gibson

Mr. Lloyd R. Gibson

Mr. David Gillbanks

Mr. H. H. Gosemeijer

Mr. William J. Griffin*
Mr. Donald G. Grunke*
Mr. George Gruskos

Dr. Ullrich Guentzel-Lingner
Dr. H. Haffner

Mr. Edward A. Halbach*
Mr. R. B. S. Halley

Mr. Goeff Hall-Jones

Mr. George C. L. Handel*
Mr. Irvin Hanks

Mr. Mike Harms

Mr. John W. Harris

Mr. Rodney Hatch

Mr. David F. G. Hawkins
Mrs. Vi Hefferan*

Mr. J. Hers

Mr. Gale Highsmith

Mr. William P. Hirst*
Mrs. Donna Hodges

Mr. Wim Holwerda

Mr. D. J. Hopkins

Miss Ann Althea Houston
Miss Kay Pemberton Houston
Miss Margaret Snow Houston
Mrs. Miriam Hill Houston
Mr. Walter Scott Houston
Mr. Jack Hudnall

Mr. Roger Hurt

Mr. Simeon V. Inciong*
Mr. William C. Irvin

Appendix 14. List of Volunteers in Fiscal Year 1975 / 577

Mr. Robert A. James
Mr. Russell Jenkins*
Mr. Wolfgang Jordan
Mr. Heinz Kaminski
Mr. Harry Kanowitz
Mr. D. Karcher

Mr. Richard Karlson
Mr. Steve Karney

Mr. Colin King

Dr. Desmond G. King-Hele
Dr. Kenneth Kissell

Dr. Walter Kohlbach*
Mr. Horst Kohnke

Mr. Ken’ichi Komago
Mr. Wm. Konig

Mr. Gerald La Font

Mr. L. Lantwaard

Prof. George Larson
Mr. Charles Lenhoff
Capt. Joe Lenhoff

Mr. Arthur S. Leonard*
Mrs. Natalie R. Leonard*
Mr. William B. Leonard
Mr. David Licht

Dr. Thomas Lord

Mr. Edward Lumley
Mr. B. G. Lunt

Debbie Lyons

Mr. A. G. W. Maas
Alistar G. MacDonald
Mr. Paul D. Maley

Mr. Pedro C. Mangubat
Mr. Paul Marianetti
Ms. Harriet Marmon
Mr. Benjamin D. Martinez
Mr. L. N. Martins

Mr. Alfred Mateczun
Mr. W. D. Meadway
Mr. Antonio Mendez
Mr. Pedro Mendez
Mrs. Tony Mendez

Mr. Jean Meeus

Mr. H. W. Middleton
Mr. S. W. Milbourn
Mr. Vasile D. Mioc

Mr. Norman Moorcroft
H. Mrass

Mr. Benjamin Mullinex
Mr. Michael Mc Cants
Mr. Bennet Mcinnes
Mr. N. K. McKinnon*
Mr. John E. Neal

Mr. Raymond Newell, Jr.
Mr. Robert Nieri

Mr. Rodrigo N. Nieva
Mr. H. J. Nitsehmann
SAO Moonwatch Volunteer Program—Cont.

Mr. H. W. Northey
Mrs. J. Northey

Mr. Norton Novitt
Mr. Stuart L. O’Byrne*
Mr. Francis L. Ohmer
Mr. Paul Olson

Mr. Tiberiu P. Oproiu
Mr. E. Otto

Mr. J. Oudman

Mr. M. D. Overbeek
Mr. Alan Parkes

Mr. Julian Parra

Mr. Gordon Patston
Prof. Edgar Penzel
Mr. Calvin Perry

Mrs. Betty Phelan

Mr. Ray Pohl

Prof. Calin Popovici
Mr. John Prentice
Mrs. Ardine Proctor
Mrs. Eugenia D. Radu
Mr. Fred Ream

Mr. R. K. Reynolds
Mrs. R. K. Reynolds
Mr. Ernest Robart
Mr. Gregory Roberts
Prof. Jack Robinson
Mr. Herbert E. Roth
Mr. Diethard Ruhnow
Dr. Philip W. Russell
Mr. Maximo P. Sacro, Jr.
Mr. Ioan U. Salajan
Mr. Anthony Sanchez
Mr. Eugene Sanchez
Mr. Len Schaefer

Mr. Gerhard Schiffner
Mr. George Schindler
Mrs. Betsy Schneider
Mr. Ernest Schneider
Mr. Jurgen Schramm
Mr. James Schroll

Mr. James Schumacher
Mr. Donald P. Scott
Dr. Herman C. Sehested
Mr. Alexander Seidel
Ms. Georgann Seibert
Mr. P. C. Seligmann
Mr. Richard Severinghaus
Mr. Juan D. Silvestre
Mr. Clifford Simpson
Mrs. Goldie Sitzman

578 / Smithsonian Year 1975

Mrs. A. A. Smit

Mr. S. Smit

Mrs. Helen Smith

Mr. R. F. Smith*

Mr. Rupert Smith

Mr. Dan Snow

Mr. H. E. Specht

Dr. Richard St. John
Mr. Kenneth Steinmetz
Mr. Fred Soutter

Mr. John Sprock*

Mr. Alan P. Stephenson*
Mr. Nik Stoikidis*

Mrs. Mary Swaim

Mr. Domingo Taboada*
Mr. Gorden E. Taylor*
Mr. John Taylor

Mr. Phillip E. Taylor
Mr. L. E. Thompson

Dr. Joseph Fraser Thomson*
Clayton Toensing

Mr. Maynard Toensing
Ms. Guadelupe Torres
Mr. Riksuko Tsuchida*
Mr. Yoshinao Tsuchida*
Mr. Douglas C. Tweedie*
Mr. N. Van Delen

Mr. Isi Van Den Broeck
Mr. N. Van Der Vlist
Mr. William R. Van Nattan
Mr. J. H. Veldkamp

Mr. Martin Vermeer
Mr. Th. Vermeesch

Mr. J. Vollmer

Mr. G. N. Walker

Mr. Bryan G. Wallace
Mr. Michael Waterman
Mr. David Watkins

Mr. Joel Weisberg

Mr. William W. Welbon
Mr. Tim Wengard

Mr. Freidrich Witte
Prof. D. C. Whitmarsh*
Mr. Walter Whyman
Dr. N. Wieth-Knudsen
Dr. C. N. Williams

Mr. G. Robert Wright
Mr. Dante B. Yglopaz
Mr. Harro Zimmer*

Mr. Raymond Zit

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK

Friends of the Zoo

GUIDES

Patricia Arthur
Marion Ball

Leah Bratt
Josephine Burman
Dolly Clagett
Nancy Cohen
Shirley Dols
Elinor Dunnigan
Barbara Edmonds
Margaret Farr
Sally Foster
Elizabeth Glassco
Linda Hanson
Marilyn Hereford
Bernice Krula
Micheline Kuipers
Mimi Leahy
Symme Levine

DOCENTS

Juanita Lambert
Joan Smith

HISTORY AND ART

Beverley Lilley
Tura Lipscomb
Pamela Matlock
Cecil McLelland
Sandra Meyersburg
Martha Miles
Laila Mosely
Elizabeth Mount
Virginia Quinn
Sylvia Ripley
Sandra Scholz
Anne Schultz
Elsie Sharon
Margaret Siddall
Malcolm Stiff
Carol Taylor
Mary Washburn
Missy Winslow

Eliza Soyster
Sally Tongren

HIRSHHORN MUSEUM AND SCULPTURE GARDEN

HMSG Office of Education

Nathaly Baum
Jody Beck

Anne Bergsman
Alice Bindeman
Danuta Boczar
Frances Burka

Dr. Morris Chalick
Martha Jane Claypool
Margaret Doole
Nancy Dunston
Frances Evans
Lynn Fondahn
Gertrude Friedman
Freda Gandy
Florence Gang
Betty Gibson

Ethel Gold

Shirley Goldenberg
Ms. Brent Goo
Florence Hart
Joclare Holmes
Reba Immergut

Appendix 14. List of Volunteers in Fiscal Year 1975 / 579

Ann Jacoby
Betsy Kutscher
Ann Kraft

Judith Landau
Lilian Lafont
Janet Levine
Nancy Mannes
Missy Millikan
Beatrice Mirman
Claire Monderer
Carol Nerenberg
Ruthann Panowicz
Mary Patton
Janet Penn
Vivian Pollack
Adrienne Powell
Jennie Prensky
Anita Reiner
Barbara Richardson
Marion Ring

Jane Rodman
Loretta Rosenthal
HMSG Office of Education—Cont.

Jeanne Ross
Dianne Schachner
Irene Schiffman
Judy Schomer
Martha Shochet
Eve Sermoneta
Helen Shumate
Menise Smith

Office of Public Affairs

Gloria Bayless
Rufus Dixon
Lisa Fingeret

JOSEPH HEN RKY- PAPERS

TRANSCRIBERS

Mrs. Frances R. Burdette
Mrs. Horace Craig

Mrs. John Eisenhour
Miss Susan E. Hinckley
Mrs. Esther H. Lurie

Elaine Steinmetz
Bob Stevens

Ruth Taylor
Barbara Tempchin
Marilyn Tublin
Virginia Turman
Barbara Zook

David Gilbert
Etta Wanger

Miss Kathryn Moody
Mrs. Martha P. Robinson
Mrs. Alan Sinclair

Mrs. Robert Watson

NATIONAL COLLECTION OF FINE ARTS

NCFA Office of Education

DOCENTS

Hilda Abraham
Linda Ackerman
Ruth Amster

Jo Apter

Betty Atkocius
Lois Berger
Grace Berman
Barbara Booth
Estelle Bossin
Jean Brackett
Carolyn Cage
Lorraine Carren
Victoria Cavaney
Pauline Cohen
Harryette Cohn
Dorothy Colban
Sophie Danish
Bernice Degler
Jane Eddy
Marcia Edenbaum
Fifi Edison

Alice Feeney
Velma Galblum
Florence Gang
Lilyan Goda
Marian Goozh

580 / Smithsonian Year 1975

Arline Gordon
Selma Gratz
Lillian Greenspan
Ruth Hall

George Smoot Harris
Lilly Hiller
Jeanette Kear
Phoebe Kline
Dale Kramer
Gertrude Landay
Jonna Lazarus
Vira Ludlow
Margaret MacElfatrick
Nancy Mannes
Majorie McMann
Muriel Miller
Lillian Mones
Sylvia Nazdin
Ruth Oviatt
Carole Pierson
Peggy Ritzenberg
Loretta Rosenthal
Sandra Rothman
Bunny Shapiro
Elaine Steinmetz
Ruth Taylor

Marienne Tobriner Diane Wilbur

Betty Ustun

Donna Wilson

National Collection of Fine Arts/National Portrait Gallery Library

Karen Adise
Ruth Carlson

Ann Chesnut
Aleita Hogenson

SLIDE AND PHOTOGRAPHY SECTION

Linda Baer

Betty Boatwright

Camilla Brooks
Sarah Buchan

Marty Coleman

Anne Desaultels
Lori Edgar
Claudia Haas
Monica Hawley
Kinsley Morse

Renwick Gallery of Art

DOCENTS

Anne Akman
Heather Berry
Nancy Cloud
Kitty Coiner
Mahlon Dewey
Yetta Goldman

Mary Hundley
Shirley Kress

Ruth Money

Alice Nelson

Ruth Potter

Barbara Rothenberg

Sharon Greenfield Edith Schaffer

Lydia Hanson
Jane Hogan

Martha Shochet
Patricia Thibeault

VOLUNTEERS FOR “CRAFT MULTIPLES” EXHIBITION

Marcia Edenbaum Jonna Lazarus

Howard Fox
William M. Fox
Janet Gilliam
Yetta Goldman

Kerry MacBride
Ellen Posilkin
Nancy Rosing
Pat Schaeffer

Valerie Greenhouse Joan Schwartz

Jan Kerr
Shirley Kress

Andrea Uravitch
Amanda Washburn

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF HISTORY AND TECHNOLOGY

Office of the Deputy Director

Dede Bachtler
Roberta Downs

Rolf Jacoby
Edna Luginbuhl

Jenny-Clyde Hollis JoAnne Trumbule
Office of Public Affairs

Karina Lion

Department of Applied Arts

DIVISION OF GRAPHIC ARTS

Peggy Dong
Margaret Fahs
Olivia Feldman

Rolf Jacoby
Ellen McKee
Elizabeth Topp

Appendix 14. List of Volunteers in Fiscal Year 1975 / 581
DIVISION OF NUMISMATICS

Benjamin Cowen Paul Warman

DIVISION OF POSTAL HISTORY

George G. Bull Steve Koplowitz
Fay Clinkscale Gregory Pence
Elizabeth Ketcham Martha Scheele

DIVISION OF PHOTOGRAPHIC HISTORY

Margaret Tingley

DIVISION OF TEXTILES

Mary Elizabeth Brown Anne E. Hoke

Cynthia Ruth Cunningham Naomi Kaitz

Gladys Dougherty Jamie Ann Ruchti
Department of Cultural History

Judith Britt Dorothy Pouquet

Carolyn Bryant Norman Sole

Carrie Davis Gary Sturm

Barbara Dickstein Marilee Tillstrom

Gwen Edwards Manie Van Doren

Louise Freeburger Harriet Vwatter

Betty Kramer Robert Weis

Parker Leigh Cherilyn Widell

Lisa Ostrich Evelyn Wilson
VOLUNTEERS FOR “A NATION OF NATIONS” EXHIBITION

Gloria Bayless Sandy Medallis

Mrs. Gretel Cox Betty Morin (Mrs. Charles)

Peggy Dong Elizabeth Topp

Olivia Feldman Lee Wheelwright (Mrs. David P.)

Department of Industries
DIVISION OF AGRICULTURE AND MINING (WARSHAW COLLECTION)
Ms. Aida Micjares Ms. Betsy Miller Ms. Sandy Young

DIVISION OF CERAMICS AND GLASS
Ms. Ann Baizell Ms. Barbara Schnitzer

DIVISION OF TRANSPORTATION
Mr. Earle Geoghegan Mrs. Dorothy Lake

Department of National and Military History

DIVISION OF POLITICAL HISTORY

Mrs. Barbara Chapman Mrs. Emily Lellouche
Mrs. Jane Cloyes Mrs. Daisy Marrero
Mrs. Rosemary Duxbury Susan Matheson
Judy Fedkiw Deborah Ritter
Mary Ellen Kay Eleanor Wright
DIVISION OF MILITARY HISTORY
Richard Crawford Lawrence I. Larkin
John I. H. Eales Barbara Sullivan

582 / Smithsonian Year 1975
DIVISION OF NAVAL HISTORY

Frank Davis

Department of Science and Technology

Walter F. Aerni
Frances Allen
Helen Barsanti

Lt. V. Behal
Thomas Beyer
Mary Jane Burwell
Katherine Byram
Nathaniel Choate II
Sally Churchill
Linda Close

Robert M. Comly
Bridget Farrell
Nancy Fredman
Francis Fried

Joann Fulcher
Ronald Globus
Marguerite Hannon
Carolyn Harshaw

DIVISION OF MEDICAL SCIENCES

Mrs. Phyllis E. B. Buell

NMHT Office of Education

DOCENTS

Carole Abert
Shirley Adams
Mary Jo Adler
Carol Alexander
Louise Allen
Patricia Ameling
Ann Andrews
Susan Angermeier
Goldie Ardoin
Frances Atchison
Charlotte Baker
Tom Ballentine
Stephanie Barach
Ann Barry

Gayle Bauer
Dian Belanger
Anne Bellinger
Barbara Bingham
Mary Lou Bleakley
Joseph Blunk
Thomas Bond
Wilma Bond
Joyce Brescia
Josette Brogan
Marjory Brown
Kay Byram

Appendix 14. List of Volunteers in Fiscal Year 1975 / 583

Allan F. Honam
Gladys A. Johnson
Walter S. Jones
Marion Koehler
Mary Lane

Charles T. G. Looney
William F. McCarthy
Athene Maganias
Alyse Miller

Jeanne Pappous
Andre Prive
Frederick N. Saxton
David Schwab

Mary Lou Stevenson
Lcdr Stanley C. Stumbo
Irmgard Taylor
Anne Wright

Mrs. Joan Wells

Barbara Chapman
Daniel Chapman
Ruby Cheaney
Faye Claiborne
Chathie Lee Clark
Betty May Cleary
Patrick Clifford
Selma Colby
Patricia Colevas
Marjorie Conrad
Mary Constable
Christine Coyle
Diane Crocker
Jan Crowther
Adele Daniels
Virginia Daskalakis
Cari Davis
Bridget Deale
Margot Dibble
Jacqueline Doll
Janice Doll
Gloria Dowd
Corinne Duffy
Jane Dunphy
Ruth Eckhardt
Anne Eiland
Docents—Cont.

Nancy Emory
Jane Ervin
Dorothy Fabricant
Judith Fay

Gloria Feeney
Bernice Feinstein
Ronnie Fenz
Mary Fitzgerald
Mary Flury
Kathy Forrest
Ann Fox

Carol Freeman
Nancy Fusillo
Freda Gandy

Mia Gardiner
Marilyn Gaston
Suzanne Graves
Irma Greenspoon
Terri Gremel
Kristin Gunderson
Ruth Ann Hadley
Suzanne Hall
Margaret Hanlon

Mary Jane Hellekjaer

Sally Hersey
Vera Hickman
Jane Hobson
Abby Holtz
Lucia Homick
Audrey Hong
Marilyn Horwood
Joan Howard
Eleanor Howlett
Rosalie Hughes
Bruce Hutton
Dolly Irwin
Elizabeth Jackson
Anna Jester
Sandra Jones
Naomi Kaitz
Mary Ellen Kay
Patti Kaylor
Helene Kenny
Marie Koether
Barbara Kopf
Paul Krauss
Claudia Kravets
Betty Land

Joan Lane
Martha Jo Leese
Barbara Lehmann
Dorothy Malloy
Shirley Marston
Muriel Mason
Nancy Matthews

584 / Smithsonian Year 1975

Barbara McGraw
Christine McLaughlin
Martha Jo Meserole
Judy Metz
Juanita Micas
Lashley Micas
Evelyn Migliaccio
Marjorie Miller
Sue Miller

Mary Jane Miskel
Elmer Mitchell
Virginia Moffett
Helen Morrison
Ann Murphy
Elizabeth Murphy
Barbara Naef
Katherine Newhall
Mary O’Byrne
Betty O’Connell
Dan Ohlms
David Olive
Norma Papish
Betsy Parman
Jeanette Payton
Ames Perry
Betsy Petty

John Phillips
Sheila Pinsker
Shirley Pollack
Carole Powers
Dorothy Prats
Judith Promisel
Ruth Raetz

Anna Raymond
Mary Reed
Nanette Reed
Ralph Remley
Anne Ricciardi
Jean Robb

Judy Roberts
Jane Rodgers
Ruth Roll

Jane Ross

Arden Ruttenberg
Barbara Schwartz
Mary Ann Scott
Isobel Sheifer
Sevah Shiffman
Deeks Shryock
Sharon Simon
Betsy Small
Carole Smith
Maureen Smith
Helen Snyder
Marilyn Sorenson

Carol Stent Jean Ward

Ruth Stewart Myra Waud

Ann Stock Joan Wells
Marjorie Stroud Sharon Wheeler
Roberta Swenson Robin Wilson
Ann Swift Anne Withers
Patricia Tabacco Mary Wood

J. N. Thompson Mary Dale Woodard
Nancy Turner Beth Woodward
Morris Ullman Lorna Zimmerman
Diane Van Trees Betty Zolly
Carolyn Voas Jayne Zopf

NATIONAL PORTRAIT GALLERY

Department of Education

Marion Artwohl Miriam Kuskin
Lil Brickman Ninfa LaTora
Kathy Campoli Dixie Lee

Belle Church Clarice Levy
Helen Clendenin Justin Lewis
Bert Epstein Jan Lissy
Vivian Fagg Mercedes McCarthy
Marjorie Findly Tom Mills
Joyce Fried Martha Morales
Eleanor Fullerton Elaine Muller
Ruth Furey Bernice Rashish
Berry Grant Mary Stump
Pat Hilburn Virginia Tannar
Ruth Hill Akiko Unger
Connie Imming Vivian Ware
Joyce Ingle Frances Wilson

Office of the Coordinator of Exhibits

Cynthia Brewster Kathleen Stevenson

Print Department
Bridget Deale

Public Affairs Office

Frances Maioriello

MUSEUM PROGRAMS

OFFICE OF MUSEUM PROGRAMS

Elizabeth Brown Jeannette Richoux
Eva Mirski Barbara Sullivan
Ruth Money

SMITHSONIAN ARCHIVES
Robert M. Mitchell

Appendix 14. List of Volunteers in Fiscal Year 1975 / 585
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION LIBRARIES*

Jean G. Anderson Irma W. Kerrigan
Sally Chandler Richard Perry
Hattie Ettinger Elizabeth Poel
Evelyne Fischer Miriam Rasmussen
Bernice Jones Constance Rowland
Sasha Kerr Marjorie Storer

* See also under National Collection of Fine Arts/National Portrait Gallery Library,
page 581.

PUBLIC SERVICE

OFFICE OF ELEMENTARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION

Anne Ainsworth David Good

Mark Baugher Linda Jacobson
Wanda J. Bond Timothy Kiefer
Delanie Brown Nancy Lehman
Virginia Brown Robert Martin
William Brune Richard Muenchow
Carol Cooper Frank Santamour
William Connelly Stacey Sudduth
Bruce Craig Alicia Tomkins
Risa Beth Davis Laura Wilkoff
Linda De Witt William Woodford
Susan Dodge Cathy Zusy

Ted Eisenstien

OFFICE OF PUBLIC AFFAIRS
Edna Luginbuhl
SMITHSONIAN ASSOCIATES

Resident Program

OFFICE AIDES

June Bashkin Edna Groves
Margaret Binning Harriet Hinckley
Viola Burroughs Nancy Hinton
Virginia Caton Elizabeth Holden
Alice Crusius Barbara Reed
John Eales Elizabeth Talcott
Theodore Fetter Zelda Tally
Beatrice Gray Irene Woodward

CHAIRMAN OF HOSTS FOR OPENINGS AND SOCIAL EVENTS

Thomas Canada

Visitor Information and Associates’ Reception Center
INFORMATION VOLUNTEERS

Roselyn F. Abitbol Ruth Anne Alcorn
Lynn S. Adlersberg Seymour C. Alenier

586 / Smithsonian Year 1975
Lois A. Alexander
Georgia Allen
Marion E. Anderson
Mary Ashton
Mildred Askegaard
Janice Bachtell
Teresa Barbot
Miriam Baskind
Evelyn Beall
Mildred B. Beck
Adaline R. Beeson
Louise D. Belcher
Lester R. Benjamin
Gery L. Berg

Susan C. Biebel
Margaret A. Binning
Ethel D. Blatt
Jackson W. Bosley
Sandra Bosley

Lydia Minota Boulton
M. Frances Bradley
Helen Bremberg
Trudy W. Brisendine
Yetta R. Bronstein
Elizabeth Brown

M. V. Bruner

Helen D. Buchheim
Louise W. Bucknell
Renate Carson
Dorothy Cascioni
Lyn M. Castiglia
Wilhelmina Cerine
Robert Edwin Chalenor
Marcelle Clark

M. Eleanor Clark
Ann M. Collins
Martha Comolli
Debbie Cornelius
Loretta A. Coughlin
Jane Crawford
Patricia A. Cross
Deborah L. Currier
Helen S. Curry
Donna A. Davis
Donna A. DeCorleto
Peggy L. Disney
Carlotta Durrer
Pauline Edwards
Melanie D. Ehrhart
Ann E. Elmore
Linda S. Erskian
Jean Essley

William R. Etheridge
Audrey J. Evans
Sheila Evans

Lauren E. Fauer

Appendix 14. List of Volunteers in Fiscal Year 1975 / 587

Amanda H. Finley
Madeline L. Finney
Genevieve W. Fitzgerald
Harriet L. Frush
Marguerite L. Fry
Kathleen Futscher
Marcella Gambill
Donna K. Griffitts
Frances S. Glukenhous
Genevieve Gonet
Nola W. Gooden
Ruth Goodman
Louise Gottlieb

June Graham

Cathy Gue

Helen Gunderson
Grace Gunn

Virginia W. Haidacher
Laura I. Hammann
Peggy Hammon
Harriett J. Harper

Jo Ann Hearld
Charlotte A. Hendee
Susan A. Henretta
Josephine A. Hines
Julia S. Hitz

Mary E. Hoch

Jane Hogan

William D. Hogan
Shirley J. Holmes
Elizabeth Horn
Selena Hoyle
Katherine A. Huffman
Mary G. Hundley
Rae B. Hurwitz
Isabel Hutson

Sherrie S. James
Elizabeth S. Johnson
Madeleine L. Jones
Edwina Jordan
Catherine E. Karpick
Mary Kasik

Winifred B. Keating
Karen L. Keeney
Jennefer M. Keen
Ada B. Kenk

Helen Kennedy
Helen M. Kenney
Sally Kingsbury
Linda Lee King
Virginia L. King
Jacqueline Landergott
Katheryne Lawson
Esther C. Lawton
Dorothy N. Laybourne
Thelma Z. Lenkin
Information Volunteers—Cont.

Mary Gale Letts
Anna Mary Levine
Rae T. Lewis
Margaret Liebert
Kathryn R. Ling
Claudia Lockard
Constance MacMillan
Barbara C. Majewski
Marie Martin
Maryann Martini
Virginia McClung
Margaret S$. McComb
Ruth M. McGinn
Marjory G. McGuire
Mary E. McKay
Marjorie F. McMurtry
Emily Meeland
Agnes P. Merton
Beatrice W. Mirman
Margaret Misegades
Elizabeth Morin
Kathryn R. Murphy
Dana Nickelsburg
Henry M. Noel
Lorene E. Norbeck
Susan G. Normand
Janet B. Nunnelley
Margaret F. O'Neill
Josephine Olker
Gladys Ozanne
Adele Palant
Angeline M. Pascuzzi
Patricia Pelatan
Jackie Pendergrass
Beatrice K. Peterson
Dorothy Pilon

Helen G. Plotka
Katherine Porter
Anne E. Prendergast
Marion G. Putnam
Gladys Quintero
Mark Raisher
Deborah Raisher
Miriam Rasmussen
Muriel Raum
Dorothy M. Richardson
Anabel Fry Ripley
Ethel K. Robertson
Gloria Rogers

Rita Q. Rogers
Donna Rorer

Doris M. Santamour
H. Ann Schmidt
Lois Diane Shumate
Carol Silkwood
Mary H. C. Siu
Marcia H. Slappey
Doris E. Slavin
Nora Ann Smyth
Barbara Spangenberg
Nancy J. Sparrow
Mark A. Speca
Louise S. Steele
Helen Stephan
Shirlee Stern

Laura G. Stevens
Grace Stol

Julie Sutton
Wendy E. Swanson
Vivian W. Swan
Bonnie N. Sweet
Grace Sweet
Bernice Talley
Charlotte E. Taylor
Maria M. Todd
Rita Lee Tuck
Dorothy Tull

Stella Uhorczuk
Ruth M. Ulbrich
Gertrude Van Bezooyen
Gilmer Van Poole
Katherine Walker
Kay Walker

Andy Wallace
Susan K. Wetzler
Lee Wheelwright
Theresa M. Wilgus
Sharon N. Willig
Janice M. Wolf
Bertha Wolman
Bessie B. Wright
Susan L. Wright
Thelma Wright
Christine H. Yerger
Mary Jane Young
Alice S. Yuen
Dalena Zulver

WOMEN’S COMMITTEE OF THE

SMITHSONIAN ASSOCIATES

Mrs. David C. Acheson
Mrs. Thomas I. Ahart

588 / Smithsonian Year 1975

Mrs. Richard G. Alexander
Mrs. William Alexander, II

an
Mrs. Denton Blair Mrs. Charles H. Percy

Mrs. Huntington T. Block Mrs. Paul N. Perrot

Mrs. Adelyn Breeskin Mrs. Horace White Peters
Mrs. James M. Byrne Mrs. Malcolm Price

Mrs. David Challinor Mrs. Edward Rich, Jr.
Mrs. Joseph V. Charyk Mrs. S. Dillon Ripley
Mrs. Charles H. Clark Mrs. Reynaldo F. Rodriguez
Mrs. W. Montague Cobb Mrs. John T. Sapienza
Mrs. C. Burke Elbrick Mrs. Hugh Scott

Mrs. Avery C. Faulkner Mrs. Brackley Shaw

Mrs. Robert Reed Gray Mrs. John Farr Simmons
Mrs. Karl G. Harr, Jr. Mrs. Potter Stewart

Mrs. Parker T. Hart Mrs. James W. Symington
Mrs. Walter Hodges Mrs. Willard G. Triest
Mrs. Daniel W. Hofgren Mrs. Robert D. Van Roijen
Mrs. Marshall Hornblower Mrs. John Carl Warnecke
Mrs. Walter D. Innis Mrs. Paul C. Warnke
Mrs. James Lehrer Mrs. Edwin M. Wheeler
Mrs. Alexander C. Liggett Mrs. T. Ames Wheeler
Mrs. J. Noel Macy Mrs. Evan M. Wilson
Mrs. Dudley Owen Mrs. Backus Wood

Mrs. James R. Patton, Jr. Mrs. Laurcence I. Wood

WOODROW WILSON INTERNATIONAL CENTER
FOR SCHOLARS

LIBRARY
Jean B. Spaulding

Appendix 14. List of Volunteers in Fiscal Year 1975 / 589
APPENDIX 15. Visitors to the Smithsonian Institution in Fiscal Year 1975

Smithsonian Arts & Natural Air & Freer History &
Institution Industries History Space Gallery Technology
Month Building Building Building Building of Art Building
July 107,087 310,913 313,323 164,510 22,412 740,772
August 121,817 320,692 340,756 198,317 24,625 800,591 —
September 55,465 135,892 144,862 77,655 12,989 355,340
October 57,707 138,523 181,790 103,958 14,475 404,696
November 59,259 128,115 227,399 100,172 13,496 439,278
December 50,225 80,589 158,576 61,889 11,568 286,467
January 38,207 72,065 148,960 72,385 13,088 259,152
February 44,650 83,088 197,192 62,029 12,508 319,187
March 90,624 162,371 361,595 117,445 23,628 645,173
April 124,609 186,505 559,454 159,122 22,292 963,521
May 98,930 167,854 534,700 139,354 21,833 1,001,877
June 118,584 186,749 500,026 159,596 22,147 895,000

TOTALS 967,164 1,973,356 3,668,587 1,416,432 215,061 7,111,054

Fine Arts Anacostia

& Portrait Renwick Hirshhorn Neighborhood

Galleries Gallery Museum! Museum Totals
July 30,697 12,920 3,654 1,706,288
August 34,383 16,031 2,665 1,859,877
September 25,560 10,572 2S 820,848
October 30,403 14,203 279,716 PA TALL 1,228,182
November 31,991 14,316 212,360 1,638 1,227,978
December 23,561 12,509 149,961 5,708 841,053
January 28,227 14,285 179,866 2,359 828,594
February 23,352 18,772 122,302 6,402 889,482
March 26,658 13,399 208,482 4,783 1,654,158
April 31,328 14,846 178,387 6,822 2,246,886
May 42,518 12,338 151,279 2,606 2,173,289
June 40,270 11,242 138,187 1,049 2,072,850

TOTALS 368,948 165,433 1,620,540 42,910 17,549,485

1 Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden opened October 1974.
NoTE: Visitors to the National Zoological Park (not reflected in the above figures) —
are estimated at 242 million for fiscal year 1975. A survey is currently underway at |
the Zoo to develop a more accurate method of determining attendance figures.

590 / Smithsonian Year 1975
ae @ ga & a “ 4

Cache at aes dd, 1a, ete wa
ane atlas iienietiaat
ies a AME: Hate latetctatate aay Oy ) “h ad |
aye tad oy. Chee SA

ol ‘i Ge etihe e 4, :
histo eee ste’ qa 4 ae Oia eg se & cee

nee ‘

| A is € ¢“eeey 4 &

Poe 4 Cea i'¢  « au 4 Caitdetd ete
andes aa ¥ Py tesa) cs
ria cesta g eee USE ete ef Con
ta 4, é ety s ht Ei a a dia’ feds i Ct Se ut oa
i @ 3 a ae a oe ea tata a ete LHC LE
) i 4 a8 eo ay a, ee Me
a tS, AAA Meh sietett heetatet a Af ia
ie Ceara avo ee (aa ee <a ea
aot cfee i Att a 8 ee a Kee oa

18 4 a8 aa i" uA fae < ai 4, Aah a n,, Af 3e v a ine

chabeletateiaretacte ttt Cee AE OL Gt A,
tt coat atave’ A fe ee Le ee er
| ‘ vet re eet ahaa’ ees Lar aD, “
4 { A, t ‘ Ci ce ec ees ‘ « i 14% ee =
has aegtalae et eae te 7 itfetstel ni’
re Pa 4 t ane LAS a coe ate ait

: ie Bid a s GS, 7

1a a A A if Py a4, oars ae ete! ee a, tot :
‘®t , 4 8 A ry 44 ‘a « ‘ <a « as . 1. pig i Lf & AS 8
che eh a ‘ € 4 “eo ee
hy 7 i & a « ety! 4 § ease ia « Sette ce ; —

—s
Ps

Be ey cet | eer ets oN ys ae ee be ay ad
“a a! val Se 6g a Me . ie 3 5 ‘ <
4

fs ig a ; > = J . o i ”) * €: s a > =% = = * 5 %) tx = as
oy tu te 3 % on “y “ “§. 4 Se Ok a eS a el ee es
) aed Ag = 4 o o “ * ei é “ nil : : t 2 te see ;
ata tata qe te ag an ee HAA ES OS SG

