\s

GW
ys

5 A—-
D>

PUBLIC
LIBRARY

y y }
Prin} er Lf y :
i MY i i Ve MM, ‘ ; » rity ; ae MA
, i Oy i, aa ‘A ae
i mi ‘f | ner }
ae
yy | ;
; by oe
iy el ) 1 *
a ; i ;
] yy
| 7 pr
ie i
]
u ig
| ay 1 a) ire Ww # my H. ad ® Fi Tee event)
. TL ana TOUR eres
( ; a, ( WAL em
Ay v , iy a di does &
. Ha f ; [
A, c ts y et 4 4 avy ‘ae
. ih ; ; Ae x
| OR Wd he ee ee
! ' ( he it : aL i
é " ry * |
: f if any a,
a) ' q ’ 7 \ F
| % 4 14 n : :
SR Wit ‘|
bi Pin yes
% ae La pt A ey @ a

Teh eee,

F +e j a as 3

|

ik

a
mes

ae

p 4 vu 7
e y |
A wr abinnarcd Rgadetoy ileal

ct

: an ;
. hi i"

a!

‘

Boston Public Library

superintendent of Documents

744

1 IM

aN |

ray

vers!
hy!
BY

BUY

Smithsonian Year
1970

ANNUAL REPORT OF
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 JUNE 1970

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION PRESS
City of Washington
1970
SMITHSONIAN PUBLICATION 4766

For sale by the Superintendent of Documents, U.S. Government Printing Office
Washington, D.C. 20402 - Price $1.25 (paper cover)
The Smithsonian Institution

The Smithsonian Institution was created by act of Congress in 1846
in accordance with the terms of the will of James Smithson of England,
who in 1826 bequeathed his property to the United States of America
“to found at Washington, under the name of the Smithsonian Institu-
tion, an establishment for the increase and diffusion of knowledge
among men.” In receiving the property and accepting the trust, Con-
gress determined that the federal government was without authority to
administer the trust directly, and, therefore, constituted an “establish-
ment,” whose statutory members are “the President, the Vice President,
the Chief Justice, and the heads of the executive departments.”

The Establishment

RicHARD M. Nixon, President of the United States
Spiro T. AGNEw, Vice President of the United States
Warren E. Burcer, Chief Justice of the United States
WiuiaM P. Rocers, Secretary of State
Davip M. KENNEDY, Secretary of the Treasury
MELvIN R. Lairp, Secretary of Defense
Joun N. MitcHeE Lt, Attorney General
WINTON M. Biount, Postmaster General
WALTER J. HiIcKEL, Secretary of the Interior
Cuirrorp M. Haroin, Secretary of Agriculture
Maurice H. Stans, Secretary of Commerce
GeorceE P. SHuLTz, Secretary of Labor
Rosert H. Fincu, Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare
GeorcE W. Romney, Secretary of Housing and Urban Development
Joun A. Vo-pe, Secretary of Transportation
Board of Regents and Secretary

30 June 1970

Presiding Officer ex officio Ricuarp M. Nixon, President of the
the United States, Chancellor
Regents of the Institution WarreEN E. Burcer, Chief Justice of

the United States, Chancellor

Spiro T. AGNEw, Vice President of
the United States

CiLinton P. ANDERSON, Member of
the Senate

J. Wity1am FuLsricut, Member of
the Senate

Hucu Scott, Member of the Senate

FRANK T. Bow, Member of the House
of Representatives

MIcHAEL J. Kirwan, Member of the
House of Representatives’

GeorceE H. Manon, Member of the
House of Representatives

Joun NicHoras Brown, citizen of
Rhode Island

WiituiAM A. M. BurpbeEN, citizen of
New York

Crawrorp H. GREENEWALT, citizen
of Delaware

Cary P. HAskIns, citizen of Wash-

ington, D.C.
Tuomas J. WaTSON, Jr., citizen of
Connecticut
James E. WEBB, citizen of Washing-
ton, D.C.
Executive Committee (Permanent WarREN’ E._ Burcer, Chancellor
Committee) (Board of Regents)

CLINTON P. ANDERSON
Caryt P. Hasxins (Chairman ad

interim)
James E. WEBB
The Secretary S. Ditton RIPLEY
Under Secretary JAMES BRADLEY
Assistant Secretaries Smney R. GALLER, Assistant Secre-

tary (Science)
CuHarRLEs B.iITzeEr, Assistant Secretary
- (History and Art)
WILLIAM W. Warner, Assistant Sec-
retary (Public Service)
A listing of the professional staff of the Smithsonian Institution, its bureaus,
and its offices appears in Appendix 4.
*Died 27 July 1970.
Contents

The Smithsonian Institution

Board of Regents and Secretary .

Statement by the Secretary
Financial Report .

Science ‘
National Midesara a Nene Tiatoey
National Air and Space Museum .
Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory .
Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute
Radiation Biology Laboratory .
National Zoological Park
Office of Environmental Sciences .
Center for the Study of Man .

Center for Short-Lived Phenomena .

History and Art ;

National Museum of Eistony ah Technology
Archives of American Art .

Freer Gallery of Art ‘

National Collection of Fine ere ‘

National Portrait Gallery

Joseph H. Hirshhorn Museum a Seulptuie Garden j
Cooper-Hewitt Museum of Decorative Arts and Design .

National Armed Forces Museum Advisory Board .
Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars .
Office of American Studies .
The Joseph Henry Papers

Special Museum Programs . ;
Office of the Director General of Reasannay
Office of Exhibits Programs . F
Conservation-Analytical Laboratory .
Office of the Registrar .

Smithsonian Institution Traveling Eehibition Sant ice .

73
Page

Public Service and’ Information Activities. “95 2 3 = 3 =) = nee 99
Smithsonian Associatess)s9 2] 6) «6 0 6 s&s: ec
Office of Public Affairs... = 5 se: & % 2 es 1s pees
Office: of International) Activitiess) = 2) -)) 6) a auc LL
Divisionof Performing Artsecm cy aa) ces eis eG) cece eee 106
Smithsonian’ MarseumlShops) 920%) ee) ee =r) 0) cn) TC
Belmont Conference Genter; Giyuy-eye eee a) ve ee 107
Anacostia Neighborhood! Museum’: “2 i - )-) = = 0 ences
Souithsontan ((imasazime)) 595) = &. swe) cc en nr LO)
Smithsonian Institutions Archives’. 92 92) =) <<) -) oy renee
Smithsonian Institution Malbrartes . =) cee fe. een pee I
International Exchange Service = |; = =) = a) se
Information ‘Systems) Division 3 . 5 = 95 2 3 = 5 2) eee
Smithsonian Institution Press 2 = 3 = 2) sya se ned
Science Information Exchange’. = > 24) = = oie 2) eee LES
Reading Is Fundamental . . << . = » # « «2 2) =e

@ffice of Academic) Programs 5 = 3) 2) 3, 2 Be

Administrative, Management! ~~ = 3 2 29 3 = =) ¢) 2) cee eee ees

National Gallery of Art. . . . 24 ee ES eels

John F. Kennedy Center for the Perionmng Ants oo TEA ES erereemmelt

Appendixes . . . woe ew le a ey
1. Smithsonian Foreien Cuitteney Progeans ew 6 Ys OY eS
2. Members) of the Smithsonian Council =< 5 <2 > 2 eS
3. Smithsonian Associates Membership - 2) 2 3) 2)
4. Staff of the Smithsonian Institution. . . sa a DAS eos
5. Publications of the Smithsonian Institution Bree . | ee
6; Academic Appointments) ) 7 5 2 3 = 9. =| 12 oc penne
7; PubliesAffairs) 2 4:2 02 EOP 8 eS 1 ess
8. Smithsonian ‘Exhibits 20 « s .0 4, = 3 “3/1. ! Sp) 3 (()
9: Financial (Statement. . <«< 5 2 © «© & 2. 6 = = 35.5 eet

vi
STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY
‘s : :
{ : t ’ :
th / a ees J
Hd, 4 (pqentegel Aeagfitr: a. |
ws oA iv Oyereneg Al i
Laie! Adve) Sheep Vine. - oo.
ha treed rn Le ;

igen: wea Fight ent At ocen
arp ae Rage 0
D as? qr a Ot : j
_ i ' i —

aera ys ory FR rnin

Rs
i
1 1 n"
€~@ 4 S cy
ey Ey , to
a
7] 7 _
<a uh 5
Phe
7
had
= =
es i
cs
i ,
Bt 2s ta
Statement by the Secretary

S. Ditton RIPLEY

HIS PAST YEAR has been one of measured progress for the enter-
ee. of the Smithsonian Institution. Where many of the
prospects of the nation at large seem fraught with dissent and
division, where the path of education has become obscured by the
divisiveness which has beset the academies, the smaller private institu-
tions of learning, lacking tuition-paying students as well as football
teams, seem to have survived so far relatively unscathed.

Sometimes it seems to us that the Smithsonian and other research
institutions are rather like monasteries in medieval times, removed
from the warfare that surges round about and insulated from the
dissensions that rage throughout our public life. Our “monasteries”
are not fortified as were those in the middle ages and we have not
so far had to defend the scholars writing in their libraries and
attempting to preserve individual research and learning. Rather our
monasteries are open havens where the public comes and goes as it
will, and we hope that something of value to all our people will brush
off in the process. A notable example of the latter was the second
peace demonstration and moratorium march on 15 November 1969
when, in the cold, and with tear gas on Constitution Avenue some
81,000 persons crowded into the Museum of History and Technology,
cheek by jowl, to rest awhile and look at the objects displayed therein.
That the exercise was not purely one of rest and relaxation was wit-
nessed by the many letters and telephone calls received from all over
the country afterward which expressed thanks and grateful apprecia-
tion for the hospitality offered by the Museum, and concern and active
interest in the displays that were on view. So some benefits can be
derived even from such confrontations.

Like other institutions concerned with research and study, however,
the Smithsonian suffered in the past year from the general decline in
grants and subventions to science as well as to related areas of study.
Our problem with the declining government budgets for the support
of basic science has been compounded by the tax reform act of last
year which produced a serious paralysis of will on the part of the
foundations. Drawing back from giving while they attempted to
reassess the legal complications of the tax bill, foundations in general

1
2 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1970

have still not recovered entirely from the shock of the great tax
reform act. The path ahead for foundations and for philanthropy
in general is a thorny and difficult one. It appears for the moment
as if the populist theoreticians in government have won a kind of
victory and that once more the concept of the private accumulation
of wealth is cast into an atmosphere of discredit in the public mind.
Whether this trend on the part of the legislators represents a true
feeling in the country at large remains to be discerned. It seems
at this stage highly unlikely that the public tax-derived dollar will
replace foundation giving to the extent or with anywhere near the
potential versatility that the record of private philanthropy has dem-
onstrated. All of this remains for the future, however. At least it
would seem as if foundations will be somewhat more limited in the
cycle of their growth and the number of years in which they con-
tinue to operate. It seems as if a term had been put to the age of
any foundation and one can only hope that in the long run this will
not prove to be a serious or crippling blow.

One of the encouraging developments for the Institution this year
was the series of fruitful discussions held during the summer and
autumn with the Bureau of the Budget on methods of structuring the
federal part of our budget and the annual appeal for appropriations
to the Congress of the United States. For the first time the Bureau
of the Budget recognized the concept which we have continually
emphasized, that Smithsonian activities represent a kind of unity.
In spite of the many bureaus, some of them incorporated in large
buildings on the Mall and others tucked away in laboratories here
and there, there are a series of unifying themes which run through
the Institution’s activities. Our concerns remain united around the
general subjects of history, history of art, science and technology, and
the delineation of these histories through public exhibition. In addi-
tion, our science activities revolve generally around the compilation
of statistics, information, and research about the biosphere and space.
Our classical concerns in natural history and in astrophysics have
come full circle so that today we can proudly claim our work to be
of vital importance in the new sciences of the study of the environ-
ment on the one hand and of outer space on the other. Within these
common themes there are overriding considerations for the public
good. Education and public exhibition are of paramount concern for
all our main buildings and for the curators and the research staff who
inhabit them. Education through research and _ publication remains
paramount in the other bureaus whose activities are not contained in
the large public buildings. In addition, Joseph Henry’s initial concern
STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY 3

with bringing scholars together with colleagues in foreign countries
continues to be developed and encouraged through our foreign cur-
rency program as well as research activities both here and abroad.

We are proud of the incorporation this year of the first program
for developing studies by the Woodrow Wilson International Center
for Scholars and pleased that we shall be able to give the Woodrow
Wilson Center houseroom in the old Smithsonian building for a
temporary period of time until new quarters are found for them. It is
symbolic of the activities to which that building was dedicated in the
formative years of the Smithsonian that we should now have advanced
scholars concerned with common themes of study housed in the red
sandstone castle on the Mall. We hope that the first two broad areas
of study of the Center scholars—the international law of the sea
with its implication on planning for the appropriate and best uses
of the sea, and the broad areas of social biology—will be illuminated
by the Center’s scholars. Their studies will reflect out, I am sure,
into many of the scholarly workings of the Institution itself.

The Bureau of the Budget has encouraged us during the past year
to develop an interbureau program pointing toward the celebration of
the American Revolution Bicentennial in 1976 and subsequent years,
and for this the Congress, impressed by the goals toward which we
strive, has appropriated some funds this year for the Institution.

The second general theme approved by the Bureau is that of envi-
ronmental studies, in so many aspects of which the Smithsonian has
pioneered. We believe that the Congress will listen with interest to
our discussions in this regard and will furnish us with some funds to
begin laying out long-range plans for ecological assessments in both
the New World temperate and tropical zones and perhaps in the
Old World. Within such programs many of our scientists can find
themselves at home and with the potential of resources to add to
their critically needed funds for research. Like researchers in the
field of the natural and physical sciences everywhere we have deep
legitimate concerns for the great problems of our time. We are
uniquely equipped through possessing and working with the national
collections to contribute to solutions but we are pitifully undersup-
ported in order to make these vital concerns effective. If the science
fraternity across the land cares, we wish they would let us know and
seek ways to help.

Additionally, the events of last summer, when the Apollo 11 flight
first successfully explored the moon, prompted us to raise with the
administration whether the time might not be ripe to proceed with
the plans for the National Air and Space Museum. The language of
4p SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1970

the 1966 authorization was, “appropriations should not be requested
pursuant to H.R. 6125 unless and until there is a substantial reduction
in our military expenditures in Vietnam.” In the interim since 1966,
it has been our thought that the original plans for the National Air
and Space Museum, first begun in the 1950s, have through the lapse
of time become obsolescent. Museum building plans can become as
dated in their own way as the designs for an airplane engine, provided
no mock-up is constructed, no prototype tested. In the ensuing years
since the National Air and Space Museum’s plans were first drawn up,
many new concepts of exhibits as well as new thoughts about the
research potential of the Museum itself have evolved. At the same
time construction costs have escalated steadily and in an arithmetic
manner, so that today one is faced with the possibility of an annual
increment to such costs of up to 12 percent. This means that an Air
and Space Museum authorized in 1966 “not to exceed approximately
$50,000,000 in costs” may now be envisaged to cost by the mid ’70s
something in the order of $65,000,000 to $70,000,000.

The Smithsonian administration should not rest in its efforts to
make prudent use of the dollars which may be appropriated to us by
the Congress. It seems wise, therefore, to restudy the whole original
design and to set exhibit and research needs against costs in such a
way as to attempt to hold the line financially in any request to the
Congress for a firm budget. Last autumn we asked the Bureau of the
Budget for study funds, but this was unfortunately cut out of the
President’s budget for the 1970 session of the second session of the
91st Congress. We hope to go back to the Bureau of the Budget again
this year and request funds for appropriate studies of the project.
There will be only one National Air and Space Museum and we had
better make sure that it is going to be the best one that can be
feasibly obtained as well as a prudent and efficient use of government
funds. Fortunately, the cooperation of Nasa, the continued coopera-
tion of the Air and Space Museum, and the perseverance of our
budgetarily limited staff have combined to make sure that those
objects as well as the documents incorporated in the eventual building
will be of the highest quality and caliber. It is now up to us to produce
the finest building that can be constructed. Happily, Mr. Gyo Obata
of the firm of Hellmuth, Obata and Kassabaum has consented to
restudy and redesign the building for what we hope will be an appro-
priate cost, and this concept the Regents have approved.

In spite of the generous actions of the Congress in giving the
Smithsonian limited increases each year, which have averaged some-
where between 6 and 8 percent, it is sad to recall that costs in the
STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY 5

nation at large have continued to escalate so much that our scientists’
work and our research and exhibits potential have been seriously
slowed and potentially threatened in their appropriate and meritorious
growth. We have just been able to keep up with the continued na-
tional rate of inflation. It allows little for growth, expansion, and
change, so necessary for a healthy concern, be it a corporation, univer-
sity, or a research and museum complex. Examples of such needs
are continuing additions to art, history, and science collections,
modern inventory computerization for these collections, development
of new experimental ideas and fields of study—a neighborhood mu-
seum, environmental research at our Chesapeake Bay Center and our
Tropical Research Laboratory in Panama, support for the new Center
for Short-Lived Phenomena—to name but a few of a seemingly endless
list of worthy projects.

Thus there is a definite and increasingly severe confrontation be-
tween the clamor on the one hand to pursue creative ideas in pursuit
of our mandate to increase and diffuse knowledge, and on the other
hand the support of funds to permit such work to be carried out.

While vigorously seeking additional support from Congress for these
purposes, we are at the same time carrying out a program of self-
examination of the use of our total resources with the objective of
reducing or eliminating outmoded or low-priority activities. The
results of this program will be a painful but necessary and healthy
exercise.

In the case of our private finances the pressures are no less severe.
Failure to maintain a healthy balance between income and expendi-
tures could produce a serious threat to the future of the Institution.
Those unfamiliar with the Smithsonian may not realize that it was
founded by Congress as a private institution and operated without
any federal support for nine years until 1855, when at the insistence
of the government it took over the management and exhibition of the
National Museum collections. Since then, of course, the continued
accessions of magnificent collections plus growth of other federally
related activities have brought about an enlargement of this federal
support. The growth of federal support combined in recent years with
an alarming degree of inflation unmatched by growth of income from
our private endowment funds has reduced our private fund support
to less than 10 percent of our total, although research grants and
contracts awarded to the Smithsonian added to our private income
constitute about 32 percent of our total operating budget.

The fact that the Smithsonian is basically a private institution,
although federally supported, is of immense importance to its ability to
6 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1970

occupy its long-established and unique position. Its nonpolitical char-
acter allows us to maintain our objectivity and our contacts and
scholarly investigations in virtually all nations. The Smithsonian is a
national showplace partially supported by but not of the government,
and this attracts a continuing flow of valuable collections which would
not otherwise be available in the nation’s capital for the millions of
annual visitors.

Today it is not too much to say that the private nature of the Smith-
sonian is threatened by the inflationary advances in costs without com-
mensurate increase in private resources. While the Smithsonian private
endowment funds total about thirty million dollars, only about one
quarter of this amount is of an unrestricted nature and the annual
income from these unrestricted endowment funds is less than $400,000,
pitifully small in relation to a total annual budget of nearly fifty mil-
lion dollars. During the fiscal year 1970 alone, the need to match for
private employees the salary increases legislated for all United States
government employees, boosted private roll salary payments by 15
percent. It will be literally impossible to keep up such a heavy pace
in the future unless,a commensurate increase in private resources can
be achieved.

We are now making strenuous efforts to cope with this threat to
the future of the Institution. As in the case of federal funds, we
are also currently examining all of our private activities to eliminate
the unnecessary or less important. At the same time we are striving
vigorously to increase income from our various private activities such
as our Museum Shops and our Associates organizations. In addition,
we have launched a national campaign to build up our private endow-
ment funds to assure a substantially greater private income ‘in the
future. To this end, an Office of Development was formed in Septem-
ber 1969 with Mr. Lynford E. Kautz as Director. Under his guidance
a new national associates program has been launched with Mr.
Thomas J. Watson, Jr., a Regent, serving as Chairman. The key to
the success of the operation, is of course, our new Smithsonian maga-
zine, launched in April 1970 and already showing great promise. It is
anticipated that this program will have far-reaching benefits to the
Institution. Besides serving as a giant step forward in carrying out our
mandate to increase and diffuse knowledge among men, it can at the
same time serve as the foundation for building a national counseling
organization which will serve to attract the financial support which we
so sorely need.

In the area of publications in general, however, our funds for
assuring an appropriate stream of the products of research have been
STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY rl

as seriously curtailed as they were in this Institution during the years
of World War II. In spite of appeals for additional research funds
for our scholars, Congress has not been able to award us any increase.
In spite of continued appeals to foundations and government-granting
agencies the level of funding for our research has decreased due to
stringencies and shortages elsewhere in the government.

Under these circumstances we have been pushed to the limit to
account for the dollars made available for specific purposes by the
Congress. This year particularly we were threatened with a potential
deficit in our annual operations which at one time assumed menacing
proportions. Searching and stringent action on the part of the fiscal
and personnel offices of the Smithsonian has resulted in a pruning
down of expenditures so that we have been able to balance our books
at the end of the year. But it has been a trying and difficult year for
everyone and in this sense we have reflected some of the mood of the
nation at large. It is a great credit to our research and administrative
staff as well as to the staff of the exhibits department and manifold sup-
porting activities of the Institution that they have borne these trials with
patience and understanding. In the past year or two it is as if indeed
we have been placed on truly monastic fare, bread and water. It is a
tribute to the understanding of the staff and their sharing of these
burdens that we have come through so far with morale preserved and
with cheerful good humor. In our exhibits and in aspects of our
research we can at least emphasize the positive in America and in the
American experience. Particularly in our historical exhibits this can
be a countervailing current to much of the general mood of uncer-
tainty and self-pity which prevails today.

In Joseph Henry’s view the Smithsonian existed to stimulate re-
search in pursuit of new truths and to make these truths available to
both the public and to professionals, in the arts, sciences, and cultural
history. His favorite phrase to describe the Institution’s ultimate aim
was a “College of Discoverers.” I still feel that this is the unifying
force, the common factor in all the diverse bureaus and museums of
the Smithsonian—the Institution as a “College of Discoverers” which

e First, keeps records of knowledge through its collections;

e Second, serves as a stimulus to research, largely through its collec-
tions;

e Third, and perhaps most. important, uses the collections and the
results of research for public education.

These three elements may be found to a greater or lesser degree
in all the bureaus of the Smithsonian, as they are today. What then
8 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1970

is the record of our most recent objectives and our present manage-
ment program?

When I returned to the Smithsonian as Secretary in 1964, the Insti-
tution was completing a major cycle of facilities development under-
taken to increase its capacity as a research institution. The National
Collection of Fine Arts and National Portrait Gallery were readying
new quarters with ample study space, in addition to new exhibition
and storage spaces. A renovation of the historic Smithsonian Institu-
tion Building was in prospect. Fourteen halls of modern research and
collection storage space were being completed for the National Mu-
seum of Natural History. The splendid new National Museum of
History and Technology had just opened, with two floors of scholarly
studies and collection storage areas. A research building was being
considered as a step in the ten-year construction program of the
National Zoological Park. The staff of our tropical research laboratory
was preparing to move from restricted quarters on Barro Colorado
Island onto the mainland and to establish strategically situated marine
biology facilities as their sphere of inquiry widened to include the
diverse habitats of Panama and the tropics as a whole. But the
administrative and fiscal requirements for the expanded research
efforts allowed by physical expansion had barely begun and there was
little understanding within the widgr community of the character
and extent of the Smithsonian’s interests in research. I felt then that
our first efforts should be to deepen the Institution’s emphasis on
research, in order to attain the advantages of the building program so
successfully carried forward by my predecessor, Dr. Carmichael. So
our professional research staff on fulltime appointments has grown,
from 243 in 1965 to 310 today. Of course without strong support
from technical assistants and support divisions such an expansion of
the research effort could not be effective since all of these necessary
functions would otherwise have to be borne on the shoulders of the
research staff, and here faltering government budget support has held
back our appropriate growth.

I have been deeply concerned about the scale of services available
from the Smithsonian Institution Libraries, an indispensable auxiliary
of all of our research. A distinguished librarian, Dr. Russell Shank,
was recruited in September 1967 from the forefront of the library
profession, given senior standing and a pledge of continued support
until our libraries could be judged adequate to the needs of the
research enterprise. That day still seems far off, for the constriction in
federal funding and freezes on employment, worsened by steadily
rising costs for subscriptions and monographs, continues to limit severe-
STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY 9

ly the service capacity of our libraries. This must serve only to double
our determination. The Smithsonian Institution Libraries are unique
reference systems in specialized areas not duplicated elsewhere, closely
related to the national collections which they complement.

We have sought to increase research support in the form of techni-
cians in our research laboratories and support for field investigations.
The oceanography support group, ably led by Dr. I. Eugene Wallen,
has been notably successful in expanding opportunities for staff mem-
bers to go to sea, helping to overcome a very serious lack of ship
time which severely hampered our unique effort in marine biology. An
automatic data-processing support group has been built up in both
Washington and Cambridge to meet needs for computation and
information storage.

Scientists and scholars can only be appropriately treated as profes-
sionals; they must be accorded latitude in order to act responsibly
as masters of their domains of subject matter knowledge. One of my
first aims as Secretary was to provide that department chairmen
serve in rotation “from the ranks” so to speak, and for limited terms,
in order to minimize the hazard of an internal seniority system that
might block initiative and convert scientists into permanent adminis-
trators. Research support is made available to staff members in the
form of grants and from appropriated funds, so that they will act
responsibly as principal investigators treating scarce resources as
wisely as they would funds of their own. I put an end to pre-publica-
tion review of professional publications by the Secretary, preferring
to read them as reprints from colleagues rather than submissions for
administrative clearance. We canceled a burdensome annual report
required of each staff member about his research because it served
unnecessary and merely administrative purposes. Burdensome formal
reporting can be no substitute for consultation and constant aware-
ness by supervisors. Evaluation of professional accomplishment is now
conducted by committees of peers formed in the major research units,
known as “Professional Accomplishment Evaluation Committees.”
Staff members have been encouraged to teach in universities on
official time (without added compensation) and to request changes
of their duty stations at intervals so as to be able to spend a year in
study and research without the distractions of daily office routine, an
equivalent to a university sabbatical. Travel to professional meetings
has been encouraged.

The Bicentennial of the birth of James Smithson in 1965 took the
form of an academic convocation, which we still repeat upon conven-
ing our occasional international symposia, conspicuously celebrating
10 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1970

our character as a community of scholars. The Smithsonian Institution
Press has been reconstituted as a scholarly publishing arm for the
Institution and more effective formats were chosen for the serials in
which staff members’ papers are published. Most important of all,
among our bureau directors and professional staff members, we have
sought to maintain shared respect for the individual pursuit of excel-
lence, whether in research, collection development, or the presentation
of knowledge to the public. The professionalization of our research
community is manifested in many ways and, of course, constitutes one
of the greatest strengths of the Institution.

In keeping with the professional character of our staff and in a
spirit of service to the nation, we have sought closer ties with the
universities. We have inaugurated programs whereby students and
other qualified investigators are freely given access to Smithsonian
facilities to conduct their own investigations. Younger visitors and
PhD candidates receive supervision from professional staff members.
Direct budgetary support for stipends for visiting scholars has been
secured for the first time from federal appropriations to the Institution.
An advisory council, drawn mostly from the universities, was consti-
tuted in 1965 to serve as a visiting committee to advise on the develop-
ment of general Institution-wide policies affecting basic research and
higher education. Control of stipend awards was delegated to com-
mittees of professional staff members. These efforts, carefully designed
to be cooperative rather than competitive, do not duplicate the efforts
of universities but serve to make our facilities and staff capabilities
available to them to the extent that funding permits. A strong program
of higher education contributes to our research environment and in-
vigorates our institutional life through lively exchanges with univer-
sities. The specialized areas of knowledge represented by our highly
skilled staff are thus guaranteed survival at a time when a number of
these disciplines of general concern have been neglected by most
colleges and universities.

We have not allowed ourselves to rest with static presentations of
objects in our collections. In order to be successful in conveying
knowledge to the wider public, exhibits must involve the viewer active-
ly, reward curiosity, invite exploration. We have sought to raise our
standards for the effectiveness of exhibits, to guard against being con-
tent merely to show an object and to seek instead to elicit from
more of our visitors those active responses and attentive regard that
betray a more affirmative understanding or comprehension of the
context of the object and its meaning for the citizen. Programs of
school tours have been expanded. The number of children on escorted
STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY 11

tours has grown from less than 25,000 in 1967 to about 75,000 this
year and our corps of volunteer docents has tripled in size. The
experimental development of a neighborhood museum in Anacostia
has shown that museum-like operations may be carried out in the
crucible of the inner city, that children may learn with delight and
advantage, and that the residents of the area will treat with respect
what they regard as their own center for learning and recreation.

We have held annual conferences on the use of museums as
educational resources. Through our membership organization, the
Smithsonian Society of Associates, more people may participate far
more directly in the offerings of our museums such as popular study
and craft courses, special events, and guided field trips. In 1968 we
commissioned the first general survey of visitors to our museums.
Much more, needless to say, remains to be done, but unless museums
ask of themselves what their visitors have learned they will have no
way to gauge their effectiveness. Internal dissatisfaction with the
educational impact of our exhibits is healthy and serves to increase
our determination to improve them.

A well-informed public is the best source of constructive criticism,
which we encourage to insure that the Institution does not become
insulated from the public it serves.

We have changed the annual report from a collection of articles
written by others, often interesting but not informative about the
Institution itself, into a full and detailed statement about all of our
activities, the publications of staff members, the results of research,
and the expenditure of funds—full disclosure, if you will—in a manner
intended to allow any reader of the report to form his own opinion
of our effectiveness and objectives. We have established a public
information office to facilitate inquiries from external sources. We
have had numerous activities reviewed by ad hoc committees drawn
from outside the Institution. We have encouraged visits by Members
of Congress and others to become informed about the Institution. An
example that comes to mind was an evening open house in 1965 to
which we invited the entire Congress to view the exhibits presented
in the National Museum of History and Technology. Our new
magazine Smithsonian, mentioned earlier, will function as an educa-
tional benefit of membership in the Society of Associates and also
serve the vital function of helping to inform the public about the pur-
poses and operations of the Institution.

With the increase in responsibilities and higher performance stand-
ards has come a need for strengthened management. To enter per-
sonnel and payroll information or address lists on our computer was
12 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1970

an obvious step, but one which took some years of intensive effort.
We have created the office of General Counsel for the first time in the
Institution’s history and constituted the office of the Treasurer at the
senior level. Service divisions have been brought into closer relation
with the units they support. Here is another area where our own
dissatisfaction with ourselves is the surest safeguard of the public
interest. In a period of complex growth we may have given insuffi-
cient attention to certain kinds of procedures simply because they
showed less sign of strain. I have been enormously pleased by the
cooperation we have received from the Office of Management and
Budget, the Civil Service Commission, the General Accounting Office,
the General Services Administration, this and other Committees of
the Congress, and a host of helpful advisors. We need all the help
we can get.

At the same time, technical procedures are no substitute for a
shared and intense dedication to the public good, through a system
of management wherein management responsibility is vested in the
very best people one can find, operating with clear warrants to seek
and produce the best results attainable. We have sought to develop a
concept of shared responsibility rather than to second-guess our
bureau and program directors up an endless hierarchy. I have been
strongly concerned about the quality of our decision-making and have
sought ways to create shared judgments through the establishment
of our Secretariat (meeting weekly) and council of bureau directors
(meeting monthly).

One of the most important aspects of our programs is its interna-
tional character. The pathways followed by knowledge and culture
do not observe national boundaries. The quality of research, collec-
tion development, and education cannot be maintained without regard
to the work of kindred institutions overseas, just as our investigations
must be prosecuted around the globe. We inaugurated a major program
in 1965 to apply excess currencies to the needs of scholarship arid
field research abroad in continuation of the original efforts of Joseph
Henry. We created an Office of International Activities to foster
cooperation with scholars and institutions in other nations, aided by
a Travel Services Office to help staff members in their overseas
pursuits. The effects of this renewed international emphasis in our
programs of education, conservation, and research have been salu-
tary, and have included 219 grants to 57 American institutions and
universities for foreign research using counterpart funds.

The establishment of the Woodrow Wilson International Center
for Scholars is perhaps a further realization of the Congress’ recogni-
STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY 13

tion of the Smithsonian’s international role. The tragic failures of
international understanding which so mar the recent history of our
world surely call for a redoubling of effort by all institutions to seek
to increase international understanding through scholarly exchanges
and cooperation.

We have attempted to be mindful of our responsibilities as an
establishment in a troubled urban area, through services to schools
and the Anacostia neighborhood experiment. The annual Festival
of American Folklife serves as an example of an inspiring presenta-
tion that appeals to young and old alike. Groups that confront one
another angrily in other settings enjoy the experience of a common
heritage side by side. I believe it is incumbent upon the Smithsonian
to take seriously its obligations as a good citizen of the District of
Columbia and to be increasingly mindful of a public service respon-
sibility to educational and governmental programs underway here.

Another objective of management, which has become increasingly
well established, is to maintain strong cooperative links to those pro-
grams of major government agencies that the Smithsonian can assist
as a performer of research or provider of services. The Satellite
Tracking Program conducted on behalf of Nasa by our Astro-
physical Observatory is a noteworthy instance, or the scientific ad-
visory services we provided the Corps of Engineers regarding pollu-
tion in New York Harbor. We have assisted the Atlantic-Pacific
Interoceanic Sea Level Canal Commission in ecological studies related
to plans for a new sea-level canal. The Fish and Wildlife Service
and the Bureau of Sport Fisheries, as well as the Geological Survey
and entomology division of the Department of Agriculture, are alloted
office space and collection storage facilities in the Natural History
Building. Cooperative projects offer an excellent format for the
attainment of timely or urgent objectives without our having to build
a permanent staff which might outlive the aims of the program
under which they had been drawn together.

In all this, planning is of the utmost importance. Growth must
be brought into effective relation to the availability of resources,
especially for an establishment such as ours with more than forty line
items in our federal budget, each of which could very readily be
expanded to meet some external or internal need. We recently
constituted an executive steering committee of our Secretariat to
guide the development of the planning function within the Institu-
tion and consider ways to maintain a balance between our pattern
of commitments and the resources we may expect. It was my judg-
ment in 1964 that the Institution would have to inaugurate some
14 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1970

new programs and achieve order-of-magnitude increases in some
support activities in order to function successfully for the 1970s, and
to be judged worthy of more financial support from the Congress
and private sources. While we have had some very considerable
success much remains to be done. In 1964, our federal budget was
able to meet only 70 percent of basic research and support needs.
Now it meets more than 90 percent, but the elimination of remaining
shortages is a priority objective in planning. What then could be
said of our plans for the next decade?

The central concerns of the Smithsonian represent national needs
for the kind of sustained commitment that can be made only by an
institution with a strong sense of continuity, tradition, and concen-
trated purpose. We believe that our first responsibility is to continue
the general lines of endeavor to which my predecessors, with the
support of the Congress, have committed the Institution: basic
research in selected areas of national interest; development and main-
tenance of the national collections in biology, anthropology, history,
and the arts; and enlightenment of the public through exhibitions
and related activities.

In all this an overriding concern should continue to be the quality
of the professional staff effort within the Smithsonian and, I cannot
too strongly emphasize, the achievement of an adequate level of
support of that effort. We have repeatedly appealed to the President
and Congress to remedy deficiencies in support of research and
scholarly programs. While virtually half of the growth in appropria-
tions since 1964 has been devoted to staffing and operating new
facilities authorized by the Congress, an equal effort has been made
to sustain the basic scholarly program: support for fieldwork, instru-
ments, libraries and again libraries, automatic data processing, im-
proved personnel procedures, technician support, related higher edu-
cation activities, better access to colleagues through scholarly publish-
ing, and unremitting emphasis on the professional character of staff
appointments, all against a background of increasing costs. Much
remains to be done on this score. We are now documenting the
character and extent of these support shortages in even greater detail
for the President’s budget in the future. Our budget henceforth will
proceed on two tracks, the first a phased elimination of these short-
ages and the second to provide for the continued development of
programs entrusted to us by the Congress.

There are a number of courses we should avoid. We repeatedly
decline requests to assume responsibilities which we believe to be
too extensive. The Institution is an establishment, somewhat akin to
STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY 10S)

a university or research academy, not a public program agency with
massive national operations, field offices, or extensive granting pro-
grams. For example, it was once suggested that the Institution
assume management of international educational and cultural ex-
changes funded by the government, but we could not agree. The
Board of Regents has followed a consistent policy against distant
museum operations such as regional museums or national museums
in cities other than the Capital. Professor Henry’s principle, that
the Smithsonian should not bear responsibilities that others are will-
ing to assume, still applies today. While cooperating with universi-
ties we should not seek to assume their distinctive functions of gen-
eral instruction or degree-granting. While cooperating with museums
elsewhere we should not interpose this Institution in their relations
with one another or with the national government.

Without infringing on the autonomy of our bureaus and their
distinctive objectives we shall seek the advantages of existence as a
community of scholars where scientists and scholars learn from one
another. Whether by tracing biochemical relations from one group
of organisms to another or studying the behavior of a group of verte-
brates first in the tropics and then in the setting of the zoo, followed
with close anatomical and distributional studies in museum collec-
tions, we benefit from association with our colleagues. Similarly
scholars working with portraits, genre painting, lithographs, and
historical objects can pursue together their mutual interests in the
documents of the American past. Our desire to maintain unity of
outlook and professional endeavor suggests that the Smithsonian
should always avoid program developments that do not in some way
reinforce some of our other activities.

The museum as an institution in society is one focus for Smith-
sonian concern; the other focus is on the vigorous prosecution of
lines of study which, if left to themselves, would not receive the
attention that the national interest requires. Sometimes we move
beyond the museum setting to develop laboratory investigations.
When we constitute a museum it is with due emphasis upon its
scholarly responsibilities in adding to the store of man’s knowledge.
These two foci of concern should continue to determine the Smith-
sonian’s course, rather as two points generate an ellipse: neither
museums without scholarship nor scholarship without concern for
communicating with the public at large, but as in the beginning the
increase and the diffusion of knowledge.

Beginning this year the observance of the bicentennial of the
American Revolution will become a predominant factor in the devel-
16 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1970

opment of Smithsonian programs. Within the settings of our history
and art museums members of the public may seek a reappraisal of
our national experience with due reference to its international setting.
Fresh insights of historians should be interwoven with superb offer-
ings of objects and art works that portray our nation’s course over the
past two centuries and suggest paths for our continued development.

From the studies of the sources of energy and means for its use by
living systems to the explanation of biological diversity, the Smith-
sonian represents an unexcelled multidisciplinary array of information
resources and professional scientists which bear upon critical needs to
improve our understanding of the physical environment upon which
human society depends. We anticipate increasing demands upon our
efforts in systematic biology, anthropology, astrophysics, and environ-
mental studies as important resources for the national effort in environ-
mental improvement.

One of the most important unfulfilled hopes for the Smithsonian is
that a great national museum might be developed on the authorized
space on the Mall between Fourth and Seventh Streets along Inde-
pendence Avenue to recreate the experience of man’s greatest
adventure: flight and space exploration. We also aspire to present
insights about the significance of the space age for everyday life and
to communicate an understanding of the scientific discoveries originat-
ing from space exploration. Thus we are coming to appreciate that
it is not only machines, or relics of the past, or evidences of the skills
of craftsmen that concern us, but man himself. Thus we propose also
to continue to study the idea of a museum of man which could per-
haps convey something of the ever-widening insight into man and
society that characterizes the progress of knowledge today.

The birthright of today’s citizen is an understanding of the forces
shaping himself and his world. It is to museums that many people
look for access to the works of artists, an appreciation of the past,
an awareness of the scientific view of nature, and for portents of the
future. All museums must experiment with new techniques of exhibi-
tion and embark upon research aimed at improving their effectiveness
in popular education. The quality of our response to this democratic
vista will continue to be a matter of overriding concern to the Smith-
sonian in years to come.

From the amassing of great national collections will arise difficult
questions about how to guarantee access to the information they
contain. This will call for innovative designs of indexes, catalogs,
and ways to manage vast resources of information. Perhaps some
of the techniques developed for the management of voluminous flows
STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY 17

of data from satellite observations or oceanographic stations may be
adapted to the needs of the future. If man is not to be engulfed by a
rising tide of reports, paper, data, computer printout, and memora-
bilia, organizations such as the Smithsonian must pioneer in winnow-
ing and selecting this material from the spate of messages that now fill
the communications channels of our advanced technological civiliza-
tion. I wonder if the Smithsonian does not occupy a salient or point
of vantage from which this concern figures very prominently. In our
role as custodian of the nation’s collections we must try to serve the
public interest in improved management of scientific and scholarly
information.

In eras of decisive historical change all institutions undergo trials:
the challenge of changes in purpose, efforts to adapt to changing cir-
cumstances, and perhaps even lapses of confidence from within or
without. This is a time of testing and trial for the university, for the
museum, indeed, for our society as a whole. The Smithsonian is not
immune from searching inquiry into its objectives and character.
Without such inquiry and without audacious questioning of any of
our comfortable suppositions, the Smithsonian would lose its value to
the people and to future generations. Every institution must be recep-
tive to change, to new patterns of communication, to the concerns of
new groupings in society, and to new expectations.

If the Smithsonian is to deepen its services to our society we must
continue to strengthen our administrative structure, to seek new
sources of support, to enlist men and women of principle and insight
as officers and staff members, and to hold our performance to ever
higher standards of quality and meaningfulness. I would submit that
the Institution must increase its ability to adapt to changing circum-
stances, shifting patterns of public needs, widening horizons of leader-
ship within the Congress and the Executive Branch. We are confident
that only in this way can we strengthen the Institution to meet the
future of the decade.

BOARD OF REGENTS

The first of a newly scheduled fall meeting of the Board of
Regents was held on 5 November 1969 at the National Zoological
Park. Such additional meetings are planned in order to give the
Regents an opportunity to consider a series of presentations on the
various programs of the Institution. Emphasis at this meeting was
on the National Zoological Park. Talks were given by Dr. Theodore
Reed on the status of Zoo construction and by Dr. John Eisenberg
concerning the Ceylon-Smithsonian elephant research program.
18 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1970

The Regents had an opportunity to visit a number of the Zoo
buildings, including the bird house where arrangements had been
made to exhibit the moonrock from the Apollo 11 mission. Also on
exhibit was the Crown-of-Thorns starfish (Acanthaster planci), cur-
rently the subject of research into its effect on coral reefs, particularly
in the Pacific Ocean.

The winter meeting of the Board of Regents was held at Hillwood,
the estate of Mrs. Marjorie Merriweather Post, on 28 January 1970.
Chief Justice Warren E. Burger had been elected earlier by mail
ballot as Chancellor of the Smithsonian Institution. It was recognized
that Mr. Thomas J. Watson, Jr., had been designated a Regent by
Public Law 91-30, dated 17 June 1969.

The actions of the Board were reported in a statement released to
the Press, which is summarized as follows:

Plans for a Smithsonian monthly magazine were approved. The Board
approved a study of the advisability of establishing a unified investment pro-
gram for the Institution’s private endowments. This program, if ultimately
adopted, would not involve any transfer of collections, capital funds, or income
from any existing fund to any other. The Board expressed satisfaction with the
Institution’s plans for improvement of operating procedures and of the internal
auditing of its financial affairs.

The spring meeting of the Board of Regents was held in the Freer
Gallery of Art on 20 May 1970. The Chancellor welcomed Vice Presi-
dent Spiro T. Agnew to the meeting of the Board and also welcomed
the new Regent, Mr. James E. Webb, whose appointment was
approved by Public Law 91-255 on 18 May 1970.

In addition to discussing matters of policy, programs, legislation,
and finances, the Regents elected Regent James E. Webb to be a
Member of the Executive Committee (Permanent Committee). The
Board approved the Secretary’s recommendation that Assistant Secre-
tary James Bradley be appointed to the position of Under Secretary
of the Smithsonian Institution.

At the conclusion of the meeting the Chancellor, on behalf of the
Board of Regents and the Secretary, presented a scroll to Mrs. Agnes
E. Meyer for her more than fifty years of devotion and service to the
Freer Gallery of Art.

FINANCIAL REPORT

During the fiscal year ending 30 June 1970 private and federal fund
finances continued to be adversely affected by inflationary conditions
and the need to maintain vital commitments within a framework of
restricted income support.
STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY 19

Sources of financial support for our operating expenses in fiscal
year 1970 as compared with fiscal year 1969 are as follows:

Federal appropriations FY (1970 FY 1969
Salaries and Expenses—operating funds $29,965,000 $26,443,000
Special Foreign Currency Program 2,316,000 2,316,000

District of Columbia—operations of the National Zoo 2,802,000 2,528,000
Research grants and contracts (federal and private) 10,600,000 11,400,000
Private funds
Gifts (excluding gifts to endowment funds; 2,000,000 1,987,000
entire amount restricted to specific
projects and hence unavailable for
general operating expenses)

Income from endowments and current fund 1,400,000 1,365,000
investments
Total $49,083,000 $46,039,000

In addition, federal appropriations to finance construction projects
were received as follows:

BY. 1970 Fy 1969

National Zoological Park $ 600,000 $ 300,000
Restoration and renovation of buildings 525,000 400,000
Toward construction of the Joseph H. 3,500,000 2,000,000
Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture
Garden
Total $4,625,000 $2,700,000

Federal Operating Funds

As may be seen above, the federal appropriations provided by
Congress for fiscal year 1970 totaled $29,965,000, including supple-
mental appropriations arising from federally legislated wage and salary
increases during the year. This was 13 percent more than the $26,443,-
000 provided in fiscal year 1969. An 11 percent increase was received
through the District of Columbia to provide for operations of the
National Zoo. Support for the Smithsonian Foreign Currency Program,
however, was continued at the same level as in the previous year,
namely, $2,316,000; these funds are used to administer a program
of grants to more than fifty museums and universities in the United
States for the purpose of carrying on research in the related foreign
currency countries.

The increase in the federal appropriation is indeed beneficial. It
must be realized, however, that nearly two thirds of the increase
granted is required to cover merely the two salary increases plus the
20 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1970

wage scale adjustment legislated by Congress in fiscal year 1970. Most
of the remainder of the increase is required to cover the mounting cost
of goods and services in this inflationary period. Yet on top of provid-
ing for these expanded costs the Smithsonian has been in the position
during the past year of carrying out a number of important prior
commitments including the transfer of the Radiation Biology Labora-
tory to new quarters; stepped-up preparations for the future opening
of the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden; funding of a por-
tion of the requirements of the Archives of American Art which be-
came a part of the Smithsonian this year; and support for the newly
formed Center for Short-Lived Phenomena, a program which is
attracting worldwide attention in the scientific community. Providing
for these new requirements while at the same time trying to meet
the legitimate demands for expansion of our long-established activities
to absorb, for example, new national biological or mineralogical collec-
tions, to intensify research in the growing fields of ecology and
oceanography, simply could not be carried out in a manner which
would be satisfactory to all parties within the limitations of the funds
available. Financial planning, furthermore, was made all the more
difficult by the fact that the Congressional appropriations for fiscal
year 1970 were not voted until more than three months after the
beginning of the year. The result is that there is no question that
many of our departments and projects are suffering shortages, par-
ticularly since the current year stringencies merely add to those which
have been growing over the past several years.

Under these circumstances, the Institution has embarked on a
thorough analysis of all federally supported activities with the aim of
reducing or eliminating activities that are of a lower priority or have
become marginal. This will do much to reallocate our resources so
that high-priority programs can be supported more adequately. There
should be a reflection of this study in our next year’s disbursements
and in our request for Congressional appropriations for fiscal year

1972.

Research, Grants, and Contracts

As shown above, grants and contracts awarded to the Smithsonian
in fiscal year 1970 declined from those of the previous year. Primarily
this reflected cutbacks by Nasa, especially for the satellite-tracking
program at our Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory. The full
extent of these cutbacks will not be realized until fiscal year 1971.
They have, however, caused a drastic reduction in forces at the
STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY Zi

Observatory. At the same time the tight money conditions affecting
the government granting agencies have been further evidenced by
delays in contract payments and advances. This in turn has forced the
Smithsonian to increase its working capital investment in these con-
tracts by over $1,000,000 in the past twelve months, severely reducing
our cash balances.

Private Operating Funds

Financial statements for the private funds, as audited by independ-
ent public accountants, are shown in Appendix 9, page 212. While
the squeeze on funds in the federal funds sector has been severe, it is
in the private funds area that the most difficulty has been experienced
during fiscal year 1970. Income from endowment funds and from cur-
rent investments increased only slightly, yet costs were affected by the
same inflationary influences, particularly the need to match for our
privately funded employees the increase in salaries and wages given
federally funded employees.

Income from the Institution’s endowment funds and current invest-
ments is largely dedicated to restricted purposes. The Freer Gallery,
for example, received nearly half of the total endowment fund income
in fiscal year 1970, with other restricted funds taking an additional
one-quarter. Thus, the total unrestricted private-fund income from
endowments and current fund investments amounted to only about
$340,000 for the year, and this must be largely used to.buttress our
shortages on the federal side, a most unfair strain on these resources.

Disbursements of private unrestricted funds exceeded this income
by more than $1,000,000 in fiscal year 1970. The largest single factor
in this result was the start-up expenses relating to our new Smithsonian
magazine. It is expected that a good portion of these unusual start-up
costs may be recovered from private donations from those interested
in the Smithsonian’s effort to widen greatly its educational efforts.
For the future, furthermore, there are present indications that the new
magazine and membership program will be able to pay their own way.
The cost of subsidizing other private-fund activities, notably the
Smithsonian Institution Press and the Division of Performing Arts,
also rose substantially during the past year. Thus the combined costs
of magazine start-up and subsidies to the various activities were well
in excess of unrestricted private-fund income and produced the large
loss of funds previously referred to. This loss in the operating account,
together with the tying up of an additional $1,000,000 of unrestricted
funds in the carrying out of grant and contract projects, acted to
22 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1970

reduce cash balances severely. The cash position was restored at year
end by the influx of magazine subscription monies. Other cash drains,
hopefully less severe than those of fiscal year 1970, may be experienced
for temporary periods in the future.

As in the case of federal funds, strong efforts are now being made
to prevent a recurrence of deficits in the private-fund sector. Expenses
are being reduced where possible with the elimination of low-priority
projects or the release of employees. At the same time, increasing
management attention is being given to our revenue-producing
activities such as the Museum Shops, the Press, and the Division of
Performing Arts. At year end a restudy of our entire accounting system
was being carried out to permit improved management reports and
possibly less costly fiscal operations in the future.

Finally, the groundwork has been laid for a major fund-raising
effort through the establishment in September 1969 of a Development
Office, and the subsequent launching of our Smithsonian Associates
national membership campaign. Through these efforts we plan to
raise sufficient funds to complete our purchase program for the
Chesapeake Bay Center and certain other immediate needs; over the
next five- to ten-year period it is hoped that unrestricted endowment
funds can be increased very substantially to restore a better balance
between private-fund and federal-fund support. As Joseph Henry
pointed out years ago, our private funds must be protected in order
to accomplish our goals of research and instruction and not used, like
plugs in a dyke, to underwrite gaps in our federal support.

A separate but major fund-raising activity is also being undertaken
on behalf of the Cooper-Hewitt Museum of Design and Decorative
Arts. Several million dollars will be required within the next few
years to allow this museum to complete the renovation of the
Carnegie Mansion in New York City to become the new home for
the Cooper-Hewitt collections and art courses.

Gifts Received

The Smithsonian continued during the year to be most fortunate
in attracting substantial donations for specific purposes related to its
established fields of activity. The most outstanding have been two
gifts totaling $6,000,000 to support an expanded program of under-
water oceanography. The donors wish to remain anonymous, but we
are pleased to express again here our deep appreciation.

In addition, gifts for current projects were received in the amount
of $2,000,000. Our program for the purchase of additional land areas
STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY 23

at our Chesapeake Bay Center for Environmental Sciences has made
excellent progress thanks to $575,000 of contributions from the Richard
K. Mellon Foundation, the Scaife Foundation, Old Dominion Founda-
tion, the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, Laurel Foundation, and
Prospect Hill Foundation. For these and for the host of other gifts
by persons and organizations we are deeply grateful.

Endowment Funds

The addition of the $6,000,000 of oceanographic support funds,
the bequest of $291,000 from the George F. Becker estate for the
advancement of geophysics, and the transfer of about $30,000 in
endowment funds of the Archives of American Art, raised the book
value of our total endowment funds to $32,600,000 as of 30 June
1970. The market value of these funds, has, of course, been severely
affected by the sharp decline in stock values during the past year;
income from the funds, however, has continued to increase, albeit
slowly; total value at year end was approximately $33,000,000.

The Smithsonian Institution gratefully acknowledges gifts and
bequests received from the following:

$100,000 or more:

George F. Becker Estate
J. Seward Johnson
Richard King Mellon Foundation

$10,000 or more:

American Federation of Information Processing Society
Andreas Foundation

State of Arkansas

Asia Foundation

Charles and Rosanna Batchelor Memorial, Inc.
Battele-Memorial Institute

Morris and Gwendolyn Cafritz Foundation
Consolidated Fine Arts, Ltd.

Corporation for Public Broadcasting

William H. Crocker

Martin L. Ehrmann Company

L. A. Fleishman

The Ford Foundation

J. Paul Getty

The Daniel and Florence Guggenheim Foundation
George Gund Foundation

Interdisciplinary Communication Associates
International Business Machines Corporation
J.D.R. 3rd Fund, Inc.
24

James E. Jones, Jr.
Junior League of Washington
Chas. F. Kettering Foundation
Laurel Foundation

Edwin A. Link

SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1970

H. Bradley Martin Charitable Foundation

Massachusetts Institute of Technology
Eugene and Agnes E. Meyer Foundation

National Geographic Society
National Home Library Foundation

The Marjorie Merriweather Post Foundation of D.C.

Prospect Hill Foundation
Hattie M. Strong Foundation
Tai Ping Foundation
Thomas J. Watson, Jr.
Wenner-Gren Foundation

$1,000 or more:

John Wyatt Gregg Allerton

American Sheep Council

American Society of Civil Engineers

Atlantic Richfield Company

Barra Foundation, Inc.

The William Benton Foundation

The Brook Foundation

David Bruce

Cincinnati Inquirer Foundation

Louise. Crane Foundation

Mrs. Priscella Cunningham

Bruce Dowling

Educational Service Programs, Inc.

General Electric Foundation

General Foods Corporation

The Grant Foundation, Inc.

Mary Livingston Grigg and
Mary Griggs Burke Foundation

Grossman Publications, Inc.

Winston Guest

William & Elsie Knight Foundation

Irene Lewisohn

Eli Lilly

Charles A. Lindbergh

Harold Linder

Link Foundation

Marriott Foundation

Ingraham Merrill Foundation

Morton D. May, Jr.

Mobil Oil Company

Mrs. Irene Morden

Galerie-Verein Munchen

National Area Council, Inc.

The New World Foundation

Mrs. John Newington

Nilon Brothers

Occidental International Corporation
Oklahoma Society

Oliver Foundation

Olympia Airways

Ozark Regional Commission
Reader’s Digest Foundation

Mrs. Augustus Riggs IV

Sidney Printing & Publishing Company
C.R. Smith

Southeast Asia Advisory Group

E.R. Squibb & Sons, Inc.

Standard Oil Co.

Taiwan Government

Tecumseh Products Company
University of Michigan

United States Steel Foundation, Inc.
Ellen Bayard Weedon Foundation
William C. Whitney Foundation
Wilkie Brothers Foundation

Thomas Williams
STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY 25

$500 or more:

American Philosophical Society Dorothy V. Lee

Mrs. Cicely D’ A. Angleton Motion Picture Association
Arrow, Inc. Olin Corporation Trust

Clay P. Bedford Ralph Rinzler

Bell & Howell Foundation David Rockefeller

Jacob Blaumstein Mr. and Mrs. Richard Rogers
Chrysler Art Museum Ann Sayen

E.H. Walker Roger Stevens

Earth Science Imports Mrs. Kamiyo Tamesa

International Association for Geodsey Yonderbrook Foundation
Donald Karshan

We also gratefully acknowledge other contributions in the amount of
$14,616.24 received from 302 persons during 1970.
ars 7 7 - ww et i 2 a ae rae -

wh ey ; it orn
iu ‘ , aay ma be Piva a

§ Jeph 4 Sage tal! Wolter! : a
A a) Te | Pehle pista tad 7
7 jokdert by adil maith anitett A ies
ina’ h Anteqerrro? st
4 years ae Tt Ap geled tote hs'
1d amis? » Tvl habla elem towed teal pe rane
v cgevewereh SP AeA avd) tte. td :

ma Pet ab ; Sever ad +10
oy) hee peal Mulia wero ai . :

Ps We aire) dined To cranial re j iy “veal 7”
i] we 9 (pr{faebetiew ul rpeatse Prite graders! veil pre rate ly

u }
1c; tii 69 fy). ciquedpel tinted Yotllo Seo NOR es THis Bae
; pr UT’ nes SAY Me hoon ts
bi 0 i
’
'
ee na
x had =
*. ° I
: Py i wih
} ‘ i a f a eS nS a --S=
—= = Tt qe iat :
t ee iP } Lo Ora a
Tus eee = 4 is
‘«=(megupe! Ce
c ) > 3 one Pa ay
a ip ae) HH
i ed ee) 6 ;
ans
ei ww re: Behe Ls
hign a
i} 2
. bee
ih ez
SCIENCE
ii THERE IS A COMMON BOND OF INTEREST among all the activities of
the Smithsonian Institution—Science, History, Art, the Humanities
—it is a common concern with development, the development of
human behavior (as shown in man’s response to his physical and socio-
logical environment, and historically, as shown by his artifacts and pro-
ductivity) and the development of nonhuman organisms and their re-
lationship to their environment, both terrestrial and cosmic. The his-
tory and development of natural phenomena and the characterization
of natural events as an indirect influence on these developments fills
out our sphere of interest in a way that is most likely to provide us
with an understanding of man and his universe.

Within the scientific portion of this sphere, the activities of the
Smithsonian Institution are focused primarily on what may properly
be called natural history. This term, once pejorative, encompasses a
breadth of interest now recognized as necessary to an understanding of
our total environment. We are attempting to elucidate the interrela-
tionships between whole organisms, communities, and populations
with the physical, chemical, and geological factors which play a role in
the total ecology of the earth, now and in past ages. We are concerned
also with the impact on these relationships of extraterrestrial phenom-
ena. Ionizing and non-ionizing radiation and solar effects are perhaps
the most easily recognized. Astrophysical investigations which in their
purest form consist of theoretical physics and mathematics are carried
out in attempts to explain the mechanics of the universe. The contri-
bution to our knowledge from these investigations, moreover, helps us
to understand the geophysical events on earth that in turn improve
our understanding of their effects on living systems over time and
space. We hope that by moving on a broad intellectual front we can
take advantage of all new techniques and information gained through
a naturally related group of disciplines. The Smithsonian Institution
is fortunate and perhaps unique in having this range of competence
and in being sufficiently free of specificly assigned “missions” that we
can permit ourselves this broad goal.

29
30 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1970

National Museum of Natural History

Research projects continued or concluded; plans were evolved and
carried out; expeditions departed and returned; collections were loaned
and received again; but it was not a year of “business as usual.” These
and countless other activities were accomplished against a background
fabric of increasing tension, woven of uncertainties. If ivory towers
existed here earlier, they have long since crumbled, spilling their occu-
pants into the midst of the concerns that involve us all. During the
year a number of the staff participated in radio programs and
television presentations designed to increase awareness of the great
national issues and to provide a free, open forum for discussion of
them by the citizenry.

Decreasing resources in the past few years for carrying forward
research-curation-education programs in the Museum became a major
preoccupation in the latter half of the year. Reductions in “buying
power,” caused by near-level funding, inflation, and general pay raises,
have been met in recent years by progressive reorganization in many
of the Museum departments (resulting in greater efficiency of opera-
tions), but also by unfortunate postponements of expenditures. Unless
relief is provided, the present slowing of progress in the increase and
diffusion of knowledge of the natural world and in the care of the
national collections will be further evidenced in the years ahead.

In spite of such difficulties, it was a year characterized by a large
volume of research publications, some of which received national at-
tention by special awards, and the continued evolution of interdisci-
plinary, interdepartmental investigations that reflect the deepening
relevancy of the natural sciences to today’s troubled world. Although
it was a productive period, only the most significant accomplishments
can be recorded in the following pages.

Only a portion of the funds ordinarily allotted to the Office of Sys-
tematics was actually available, but partial support was provided,
among other things, for initiating two experimental behavior projects,
for assisting with the further development of electronic data-processing
applications in the Museum, and to stage the annual Summer Insti-
tute in Systematics. This year’s Institute brought together botanical
and zoological systematists to discuss the full panoply of systematic
biology, with joint sponsorship of the American Society of Plant

Taxonomists and the Society of Systematic Zoology.
SCIENCE 31

RESEARCH

Within days after the beginning of the new fiscal year, millions of
television viewers saw the first footprint in the surface dust of the
moon. In the Department of Mineral Sciences, after many years of
research on randomly acquired extraterrestrial rocks—meteorites—
the sight of the astronauts bagging the first lunar rocks had a signifi-
cance even beyond that for most viewers. Now, the preceding man-
years of thought, training, and experimentation were to be put to the
ultimate challenge of elucidating the history and evolution of the
moon from these samples.

Preparations to meet this challenge have been steadily accelerated
in recent years by the addition of staff and equipment, and by the
intensive investigation of possible meteoritic and terrestrial analogs
of lunar materials. Techniques for sampling and sectioning such rare
and unique specimens have been carefully developed in this depart-
ment. Indeed, the first member of our team to actually handle the
Apollo 11 collections was chief preparator Grover C, Moreland, who
was called upon by the National Aeronautics and Space Administra-
tion to oversee the sectioning laboratory at the Lunar Receiving Lab-
oratory, and who made some of the first sections after the rocks were
released from quarantine. Samples of Apollo 11 materials were re-
ceived at the Museum in mid-September, and since then virtually
everyone in the department has been actively involved in this inte-
grated research effort. Samples from the Apollo 12 mission began
arriving in April and are still being received. Thanks to the breadth of
our scientific capability, we have been able to plan and execute a truly
comprehensive investigation of the lunar materials—their chemical
and mineralogical composition, and the interpretation of these data—
to provide a tentative account of their petrologic history and evolu-
tion.

Although the samples we received were small (totaling less than an
ounce), we were able to extract from them a remarkable variety of
rock and mineral fragments. Among these was a unique object, a small
metallic spheroid four millimeters in diameter. It evidently formed as
a droplet of nickel-iron from a metallic meteorite which crashed on the
moon. The surface of this spheroid is spotted with small craters, the
product of impacts of lunar particles traveling at supersonic velocities.
In its shape and surface features it mimics the moon itself, so we have
called it our “mini-moon.” A photograph of this object was chosen
for the front cover of the issue of Science (30 January 1970) devoted
to the initial reports on the Apollo 11 investigations.

On 27 April, Dr. Edward P. Henderson, who led the departmental
39 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1970

team’s study of the “mini-moon,” received the National Academy of
Sciences’ Lawrence Smith Medal for nearly forty years of distinguished
contributions to meteorite research.

The study of the microscopic anatomy of bone has the potential of
providing valuable metabolic data on human skeletal populations, and
has led to new areas of research, such as the ecological influences on
bone metabolism in two or more populations. There are two fun-
damental facts that allow bone biology to be used in studies of life
processes: (1) Although the primary function of bone is structural, it
is also importantly involved in metabolic processes by providing a
source of calcium and phosphate; and (2) living bone responds to both
structural and physiological stresses by a continuous process of re-
modeling. Because bone microstructure follows a developmental se-
quence during the entire life of an individual, it can provide a most
useful means for studying aging and disease. Recent studies of polished

A nickel-iron spheroid, 4 mm in diameter, from the Apollo 11 material, which
epitomizes much of lunar history. A meteorite crashed into the moon, being
melted by the impact and producing a rain of liquid droplets, of which this is
one. It has been abraded by lunar dust and struck by high-velocity lunar par-
ticles, producing the remarkable craters on its surface.
SCIENCE 33

thin sections of tibia bones of normal, diseased, and alcoholic individ-
uals demonstrated statistically significant differences between the
normal and abnormal bone.

Comparative studies of fossil organisms and their modern counter-
parts continue to be a fruitful approach to understanding paleo-ecol-
ogy, functional morphology, and ultimately the evolutionary relation-
ships upon which a valid classification can be erected. Among numer-
ous staff contributions to our knowledge of the evolution of fossil
Recent groups, an especially important one was concerned with the
radiation of Cenozoic planktonic Foraminifera. Through analysis of
morphotypic groups, rather than through the traditional taxa, it was
shown that the planktonic Foraminifera underwent two major radia-
tions during the Cenozoic. The first began in the Paleocene, was com-
pleted by Eocene, and ended with extinction of all groups except the
globigerines by Oligocene. The second radiation began in the Miocene
and the groups evolved are still extant. Distribution patterns of the
radiation were repetitive; in both cases similar complex morphotypic
groups appeared while the simpler globigerine group persisted
throughout the Cenozoic. By analogy with studies of planktonic Fo-
raminifera in modern oceans over a period of years, it was concluded
that the repetitive patterns are probably due to major changes in the
structure of water masses during the Cenozoic.

Investigations of living invertebrate animals involved principally
aquatic organisms, both marine and freshwater groups. The comple-
tion of a monograph on the entocytherid ostracods of Mexico and
Cuba is noteworthy because the entocytherids occur in association
with crayfishes, and an understanding of their distribution patterns, as
well as those of their crayfish hosts, and of the ecological interrelation-
ships of both groups are required for an understanding of the orgin and
evolution of these common freshwater animals.

The littorinid snails, common inhabitants of the intertidal zone,
were the subject of another monograph completed during the year;
part one included the subfamily Littorininae in the Indo-Pacific
region. Basic information on this widely distributed group had been
scattered in the literature and was not generally available to the
nonspecialist. The author combined a literature survey, studies of old
collections, and extensive field work to produce a work that will be the
standard reference for malacologists and ecologists interested in the
organisms of the intertidal zone.

A museum is not only a place in which scientists study preserved
specimens, but also where it is entirely possible to conduct valuable
research on living plants and animals. Although the facilities required
are still very limited, behavioral studies are underway on two major
34. SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1970

groups of vertebrate animals. Earlier systematic investigations of
many fish groups were based exclusively on morphological and, to a
lesser extent, on anatomical data. Aquaria are now in operation in the
Museum for studying the behavior of some of the smaller fishes with
the hope that it may provide additional systematic characteristics to
differentiate species.

Similar observations are being made on locomotion in frogs, based
on anatomical and skeletal materials and on controlled experiments
with living amphibians. Jumping and climbing adaptations are re-
ceiving particular attention by the use of motion-picture analysis, on
the assumption that different species will have not only structural
differences but behavioral ones as well.

Botanical research spanned highly diverse projects, from floristics to
cytology, monographs to evolutionary anatomy. Geographically, there
is still a preponderance of concern for the plants of the tropics; contri-
butions were completed or greatly advanced for floras of Venezuela,
Costa Rica and Panama, Ceylon, Mexico, Santa Catarina (Brazil),
Dominica, and the islands of the Pacific.

The temperate latitudes were not neglected, for the Flora North
America Project, midway in its planning phase, will bring a new era
to floristic research and practice. Although the program is administra-
tively centered at the Smithsonian, North American botanists gener-
ally are cooperating in a massive long-term effort, aimed at bringing
together existing knowledge of the flowering plants of this continent in
an encyclopedic, computerized data bank. The existence of such a data
base has obvious, direct application to current and future ecologic
research for environmental enhancement, but it could also provide
printouts of floras of the whole continent or any part of it in the fu-
ture. The National Science Foundation granted funds to the American
Institute of Biological Sciences for support of the project development,
particularly the employment of a highly qualified systems develop-
ment manager.

The usefulness of plant anatomy for defining evolutionary pathways
is unquestionable, but an especially valuable example was published
during the year. Because there is scanty fossil evidence for one or the
other view of the origin and evolution of flower form and structure,
much of the thinking has been speculative and at times highly con-
troversial. The origin of the inferior ovary, for example, has been
assumed by most botanists to have occurred evolutionarily from the
superior ovary by adnation of surrounding flower parts. A recent
anatomical study of the floral anatomy of one of the Ginseng family
showed, among other things, that the ovary in this group of plants has
SCIENCE 35

undergone an evolutionary reversal from the inferior to the superior
position, a reversal never previously reported in any plant family.

In spite of considerable loss of time for moving back into the
Museum, the Department of Entomology and associated Department
of Agriculture entomologists are again housed with the rest of the
natural sciences, and research continued at a high level. The sixth and
seventh volumes of a long-term study of Edward Meyrick’s types at
the British Museum were published this year. Meyrick was a very
prolific describer of new species and genera of microlepidoptera; but
because he failed to provide either adequate descriptions or illustra-
tions, it has been almost impossible to place his taxa in modern sys-
tems of classification. This multivolume work is an invaluable asset to
systematic entomologists, including as it does original references, rede-
scriptions, and photographs of the wings and genitalia.

In addition to numerous individual research efforts, a departmental
project on the biosystematics of Ceylonese insects was initiated with a
grant of excess-currency funds and the approval of the cosponsoring
National Museums of Ceylon and other government agencies. The first
field party carried out life history studies, obtained behavioral and
ecological data, and returned after three months with 150,000 speci-
mens. The Ceylon project affords the opportunity to broaden the
similar studies that have been carried out in the New World tropics in
past years. The Ceylonese will benefit by receiving ecological and life
history information, and identified specimens that will have great

potential significance for improvements in agriculture and_ public
health.

COLLECTIONS

Specimens, samples of the natural world, are biological standards,
the documentation for what we know about the kinds of organisms
now and in the geologic past, their geographic distribution, their vari-
ability, and their evolutionary history. Together with the literature of
more than two hundred years, collections are the basic tool without
which systematic biology may not proceed soundly.

There is a growing awareness now that these standards are also
critical for any ecological research aimed at improving environmental
quality. Collections and their associated data permit serious considera-
tion of restoring quality because they provide the most authoritative
information on what grew where and when and under what conditions.
And so the national collections of natural history objects continue, as
they must, to increase, but under restraints that assure the most sig-
36 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1970

nificant additions. For example, one need only review the large
growth-areas—mammals and insects. As a part of a much larger pro-
gram, 7,500 small mammals were collected by a staff team in Morocco
along with data on habitat preferences, reproductive biology, food
habits, and their ectoparasites. Nearly 100,000 collections of water
beetles were made by one staff researcher during the year in support of
his project to understand the biology of these pollution-indicator
organisms. Collections are rarely purchased, and then they must meet
very exacting criteria. The largest museum collection is not perforce
the best, and even with adequate space and _ technical assistance,
neither of which is more than minimal, a high degree of organiza-
tional skill and judgment is required to meet problems of caring for
such large numbers of collections.

The concept of a centralized specimen-processing laboratory, first
implemented by the anthropologists, has now been adopted in other
departments as resources and attitudes permit. In March the Herbari-
um Services Unit was established by the botanists with one of their
number serving as the first supervisor for all the technical assistants.
The entomologists have concentrated support services in an Entomol-
ogy Preparation Laboratory that carries on many of the curatorial
activities of the department.

While these efforts are still evolving, it is possible to be helpful to
other collections centers in such matters. In fact, one of the outstand-
ing events of the year was a cooperative training program involving
George Metcalf, supervisor of the Anthropology Processing Labora-
tory. Metcalf, who was later awarded an honorary doctorate degree by
Luther College, spent two weeks in the new Archeological Museum at
the college setting up a cataloging and accessioning system with a
group of enthusiastic students who now are able to organize the
museum’s collections.

The twin problems of collections space and curatorial assistance to
manage them must be solved if the national collections are to continue
to be useful biological standards in the future. Over the years methods
for organizing data about and from collections have been developed,
but the data are collected by hand and then made available in such
forms as cards, catalogs, and check lists. Retrieval of data in such form
is slow, inflexible, and inadequate for the kinds of research being
organized and initiated.

Given the wide availability of computers and their ability to store
and retrieve endless quantities of information, it is the responsibility of
collections managers to study the potential of this tool and chart coop-
erative programs for putting it to the service of museums and science
generally. Initial consideration must be given to the kinds and quanti-
SCIENCE 37;

ties of information the collections contain and the ways in which com-
puters can handle it. Then, agreement must be reached on a level of
effort at which to attack the volume and complexity of the potential
data base. Every precaution must be taken to assure that the data
organized at this stage are automatically transferrable to the next level
of attack where more complete information may be added later.

A three-year pilot project to initiate and test flexible, open-ended
storage and retrieval programs was concluded at the end of the year.
The results were sufficiently successful to encourage at least the
larger systematic museums to begin very deliberate cooperative plan-
ning. For highly practical reasons, the first efforts in the Museum have
been and for a time will continue to be at the level of incoming col-
lections. That is, data from new materials will be captured and stored
in the system. Retrospective capture of data from older collections will
initially be largely limited to type specimens, except as special needs
arise for which fiscal support is available.

The next step for museums is to agree among themselves on (1)
what curatorial data will be input to our common data base, (2) the
format for recording these data elements, (3) the terminology to
describe geography, geological periods, scientific names, etc., and (4)
the means by which all scientists can gain free access to the data in the
common base. The National Museum of Natural History is working
closely with the other important systematic collections centers in the
evolution of long-term, feasible plans for meeting present and future
data-transfer problems.

Within the Museum several units are already in the source data-
capturing stage with respect to newly received materials—marine
invertebrates, oceanic rocks, mammals, and sea birds. A project on the
botanical type collections is underway in the National Herbarium in
cooperation with four other major plant-collection centers. As an
example of the prospects for data-processing techniques to improve
curatorial management, the new procedures in handling paleontolog-
ical specimens involve the recording of data by machines on standard
catalog sheets at the initial processing of the incoming specimens.
Machine operation then automatically processes the data to provide
labels of two sizes, other records as needed, and then stores the data on
tape for later transfer to the data banks. The program increases the
capabilities of the supportive staff and will lessen enormous backlogs
of unprocessed specimens.

These are starts toward the long-range goal of making the collec-
tions more significant to today’s issues. If the national collections are
truly biological standards, we who are the keepers must be prepared to
discard traditional practices when they no longer adequately meet
39 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1970

needs. If the standards fail to provide the information needed to solve
problems, they will cease to have importance to anyone but ourselves.

EXHIBITS

Museums generally are hesitating at an exhibits crossroads; dissat-
isfaction with what exists is widespread at all levels; but the course
of other, better routes remains undefined except in general terms. With
exhibits funds already deficient, experimentaion cannot be afforded.
Consequently, very little was accomplished with respect to long-term
exhibit halls, but several temporary exhibitions of timely subjects were
presented—a photographic story of volcanoes, installation in the Life
in the Sea Hall of an aquarium containing two Crown-of-Thorns star-
fish, and a small exhibit of some of the natural history of Malaya in
celebration of Alfred Wallace’s studies in that region.

One of the more exciting events during the year was the placing on
exhibit of an incredibly large Indian tiger. This splendid gift of David
J. Hasinger of Philadelphia was beautifully mounted and prepared for
exhibition by noted taxidermist-artist Louis Jonas. The display depicts
the great cat in mid-air pursuit of a small Axis deer, and the accom-
panying labels stress the endangered-species status of the tiger.

In midyear an Air Force plane arrived in Washington with a block
of earth eight feet long, weighing about two tons. Encased within that
block are the remains of an ancient man recovered from a cave in
northern Spain last year. Handling such a block posed great problems
for the local Spanish museum, so the Smithsonian offered to apply the
proper conservation techniques as a contribution to international
science, in return for the privilege of exhibiting it for the first time.
Study and preparation are underway to put this ancient burial on
exhibit in the new year.

SCIENTIFIC SERVICES

There are at least two general ways by which scientific assistance
can be provided to the public and to other scientists. Formerly, there
was great emphasis given to the direct route, which consisted of the
staff occupying major parts of its time to provide identifications of
anything from everywhere, literally by the thousands each year. Now
there is a deliberate effort made to answer such needs on a priority
basis, depending largely on the use to which the information will be
put, and most of the scientists’ time goes into research that is designed
SCIENCE 39

to provide more and better answers to larger and more significant
questions of society.

During the past few years a population explosion of the poisonous
starfish Acanthaster planci, which feeds on living coral, has occurred
in the Pacific. These infestations were first noticed on the Great Bar-
rier Reef of Australia and have now been found at Guam as well as
other islands within the United States Trust Territory. Many square
miles of coral reefs are known to have been destroyed by this starfish.
Coral reefs not only form a living protective barrier for these islands
but also provide the foundation of the marine ecology that supports
the reef fish, the main source of protein for the residents of the islands.
This protection and food supply are now being threatened. Staff
scientists participated in surveys to determine the extent of the infesta-
tion in the Territory islands in order to obtain information needed to
plan for research into the causes of the population increase, its short-
and long-term effects on coral reefs, and to develop control measures.

The results of scientific research are not always readily useable by
nonspecialists or the layman, so semipopular/semitechnical field iden-
tification manuals are published. The Catalogue of Neotropical Squa-
mata is a good example of such service publications. Simple keys,
descriptions, synonymies, and geographic distribution in both English
and Spanish enable anyone interested in reptiles of the neotropics to

Thomas Phelan injecting the coral-eating Crown-of-Thorns (Acanthaster planci)
with formalin at Eniwetok Atoll.
40 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1970

recognize species encountered in field studies and achieve some under-
standing of their biology.

Similarly, interest on the part of public and military health author-
ities in South Asia has resulted in illustrated identification manuals
to the mammals and to the snakes of Vietnam. Published by the
Smithsonian Institution Press with assistance from the Department of
Navy, both volumes are intended for the serious student rather than
the layman.

Scientists from several departments also collaborated in the prepara-
tion of material for a deck of cards on which is printed survival infor-
mation for personnel in Southeast Asia. One surface of each card
depicts in color a dangerous or useful species of animal, and the other
side gives specific points for recognition, hints for eating, if edible,
etc. The cards were produced under a contract with the Department
of Navy as a service.

National Air and Space Museum

The year 1969 witnessed the retirement of two valued and impor-
tant officials of the Museum: Director S. Paul Johnston, and Assistant
Director and Senior Historian Paul Edward Garber.

Mr. Johnston retired 31 August 1969 after serving five years as
Director. His skill at planning and organization was applied success-
fully to planning the new building to house the National Air and
Space Museum on the Mall in Washington. Several important legisla-
tive steps toward the construction of the new building were accom-
plished during his five years of service, culminating in Congressional
action authorizing the construction. Mr. Johnston organized and di-
rected well-conceived programs for preservation of the collection and
their management for research and study. The program for the selec-
tion, acquisition, and circulation of significant space craft and materi-
el, which will have far-reaching consequences for the Museum, was
instituted under Mr. Johnston’s direction. He was a dedicated advocate
of a high priority for the rapid development of the new building and
the programs of the Museum.

Mr. Garber retired 28 February 1969, after forty-nine years of ser-
vice at the Smithsonian Institution dedicated to the aircraft collection
and the National Air and Space Museum. He is widely known and
respected for his lectures and his deep knowledge of the history of
SCIENCE 4]

aircraft and flight, as well as for his success in making this history
meaningful in scholarship at all levels of education. The Muse-
um’s collection of aircraft, the most comprehensive in the world, is a
monument to his accomplishment. As a collector without equal he
performed prodigious feats of enlisting the volunteer support of the
Armed Services and many other public and private agencies in provid-
ing facilities and services for the collection when the resources of the
Smithsonian could not keep up with his success. Mr. Garber continues

his service to the Museum as a Ramsey research associate and trustee
of the Admiral and Mrs. DeWitt Clinton Ramsey Fund.

Following the policy of the past several years, the major effort of
the Preservation and Restoration Division was devoted to the mainte-
nance of the collections. The great increase in the astronautics col-
lections, however, and the demand to exhibit these artifacts through-
out the world, made it necessary to devote considerable time to restora-
tion.

The time devoted to the various types of work performed was
divided as follows: collection maintenance 50 percent, restoration 39
percent, exhibits in the Museum 8 percent, and miscellaneous services
3 percent.

Approximately 3500 new specimens were received, 85 percent of
which concerned astronautics, and 15 percent aeronautics. A total of
775 specimens were processed through inventory, identification, catalog-
ing, and warehousing.

Among the highlights of the year was the initiation of a trial series
of student seminars at the Preservation and Restoration Division with
the cooperation of the Department of Academic Programs. About 90
secondary-level students from three representative schools took part
in this program, which visually illustrated the evolution of propulsion
systems, aircraft, rockets, and space-craft by using the actual hardware
from the study collections set up and arranged for close examination
and discussion. There are now approximately 75 major specimens
from the study collection available for curatorial study, educational
programs, and the use of visiting researchers.

The Aeronautics Department was active in experimental education
projects utilizing the collection, in collaboration with the Smithsonian
Associates (“Introduction to Flight”) and the University of Maryland.
The year’s major acquisition was the Hawker Hurricane from the
Royal Air Force, in commemoration of the Battle of Britain Day,
15 September 1969.

Mr. Paul Edward Garber’s retirement further reduced the profes-
sional staff. The activities of the remaining two professionals are
492 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1970

Restoration shops of the National Air and Space Museum, preservation and
restoration facility. Specimens shown are part of the study collection and are
assembled for restoration and study programs.

limited to servicing day-to-day correspondence and short-range proj-
ects. One of the major projects during the year was the preparation,
shipment, and installation of the Lockheed Sirius aircraft in a special
exhibit building at Osaka, Japan, for Expo ’70. The aircraft is the one
in which Charles and Ann Morrow Lindbergh surveyed the Arctic air
route to the Orient.

The department has continued its program of loaning specimens
under controlled conditions beneficial to both the Museum and the
loanee. An interesting exchange brought a Packard B-12 engine into
the collection in exchange for 1300 photos of Plains Indians (obtained
through the cooperation of the National Museum of Natural History).

The Department of Astronautics has two major responsibilities: (1)
determining and authenticating the history of rockets and spaceflight,
and (2) acquiring, restoring, and exhibiting specimens.

The Museum’s research material in astronautics is probably the
largest available in the United States, and now includes the unique
reference files for the Congreve and Hale rockets plus life-saving and
whaling rockets. Historical photographs have been received and cata-
SCIENCE 43

Lockheed Sirius flown by Colonel Charles A. and Anne Morrow Lindbergh on
their historic ““North to the Orient” air-route survey in 1931. Shown in “Wings
Across the Pacific’? Building in the American Park, Expo ’70, Osaka, Japan.

loged along with the acquisition of a sound-tape collection, from which
the “To The Moon” (Time Life Records) set of records was drawn.
Containing tapes of all manned flights through Apollo 11, this collec-
tion of more than 1500 reels is one of the largest and most complete
in the world.

Through the NAsA-Smithsonian agreement most of the Mercury
and Gemini and four of the Apollo spacecraft have come to the Muse-
um, along with some fifteen spacesuits, rocket motors, engineering
mockups, and hundreds of component parts. Loans were made during
the past year to the U. S. Information Agency, Department of Com-
merce, and Department of Labor for overseas exhibits. Expo ’70 at
Osaka, among others, displayed the Apollo 8 command module, Gem-
ini 12 spacecraft, Lunar Orbitor, spacesuits, and a Goddard rocket.
An exhibit now touring in Europe includes the Apollo 10 command
module, Gemini 10, Aldrin’s lunar visor, lunar glove, Collin’s cover-
alls, Schirra’s and Ander’s Apollo spacesuits, all from the Museum’s
collections. More than thirty tons of space artifacts were received this
year, much of which forms part of the “‘study and reference collection.”

During the Apollo 11 flight in July, both major networks used the
Arts and Industries Building for interviews and historical background,
for which purposes the building was permitted to remain open over-
44 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1970

Apollo 11 astronauts, left to right, Edwin E. Aldrin, Jr., Michael Collins, and
Neil Armstrong, at presentation of Lunar sample to the Smithsonian Institution,
16 September 1969.

night. In September nasa Administrator Thomas Paine and the
Apollo 11 astronauts presented the 1.1-pound specimen of lunar rock
to the Museum. Consequently, attendance tripled in the next months
and exceeded two million by the end of the fiscal year.

The Department of Astronautics received hundreds of letters re-
questing information concerning its specimens. Courses on the history
of astronautics and the national space program were taught by the
staff to youngsters of Smithsonian associates members. Frank H. Win-
ter was awarded the Robert Goddard Historical Essay award for his
paper on William Hale.

In the vicinity of Washington, D.C., there exist the largest holdings
of air and space documentation in the world. The primary responsi-
bility of the Information and Education Department is to support the
SCIENCE 45

curatorial staff with the documentation needed to select, authenticate,
and restore the artifacts needed to portray the evolutionary develop-
ment of air and space technology. To supplement the NAsm Histor-
ical Research Center’s extensive holdings, major documentation col-
lections in the field of air and space technology are available from
many other government and educational agencies.

The second major responsibility of the Information and Education
Department is serving the interested public, which encompasses the
model builder, author, technologist, and other museums. The follow-
ing figures show a comparison of this year’s activities with last year’s:

FY 1970 FY 1969

Requests answered 4000 5400
Visitors 1300 2100
Donations (which include a large collection from

Curtiss Wright Corporation of photographs) 62 61
Photo orders processed 637 467
New library titles received 132 69
Total volumes received 194 119

Over 10,000 items of correspondence were received during FY 1970.

Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory

To meet the new scientific concerns of the 1970s, research at the
Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory (sac) has been organized
into three major program areas—the Earth as a Planet, the Solar
System, and Energetic Phenomena in the Universe. These areas reflect
not only the overall goals of the Observatory’s investigations but also
the interrelationships of many once-separate fields that now are seen
as concerned with the “total environment of man.” Within these gen-
eral areas, however, some sixty investigators still pursue a broad range
of individual projects, thus ensuring that the Observatory will main-
tain the optimum balance between diversity and concentration.

Studies of the earth as a planet extend from the outer reaches of its
atmosphere and magnetosphere to its inner regions, with emphasis on
the structure, composition, and gravity field of the earth and on the
composition and physical processes of the atmosphere.

During the past year, the Observatory published one major inter-
national reference. The 1969 Smithsonian Standard Earth (II), and
contributed significantly to another, The International Reference
Atmosphere.
46 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1970

The first refines the representation of the earth’s size, shape, and
gravitational field issued by sao in 1966 and since widely used as a
model. The new Standard Earth shows that our planet has an intricate
pattern of “highs and lows” in the earth’s mean sea level relative to the
spheroid; these are more widespread than the recognizable topograph-
ical features usually associated with continental masses and ocean
beds. The existence of these anomalies has been revealed by computer
analysis of certain perturbations in the orbits of artificial satellites.
The refinement was made possible by data from the new laser tracking
systems at several sao stations and from deep-space probes, as well
as by photographic and other data.

Much of what is known about the earth’s atmosphere above 200
kilometers is based on Smithsonian analysis of satellite orbital data
gathered over the past decade. Observatory scientists have shown that
density variations in the atmosphere respond to a number of separate,
but related, geophysical and solar factors. For example, Observatory
scientists have found a correlation between satellite drag and solar
activity. The latter heats the earth’s upper atmosphere, thus increas-
ing its density and resistance to the satellite motion.

Observatory scientists also have discovered that diurnal heating of
the upper atmosphere, and its resultant change in atmospheric density,
lag about three hours behind the sun. Moreover, the heated bulge in
the atmosphere is shaped somewhat like an elongated eye, with the
broadest part at the equator and the tapered ends nearer the poles.
Most recently, they found that the solar wind—high-energy particles
ejected by the sun—also contributes to atmospheric heating.

SAO investigations of the solar system include theoretical, labora-
tory, and observational programs concerned with the moon and plan-
ets, the sun, meteors and comets, and meteorites and cosmic dust.

On 9 January 1970, near the hamlet of Lost City, Oklahoma, the
field manager of the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory’s Prairie
Network recovered a 22-pound fragment of a meteorite that had been
photographed by the Network as the meteor fell to earth just six nights
earlier. Within the next four months, three more fragments were dis-
covered in the same area. This was only the second time in history—
and the first time, intentionally—that meteoritical material photo-
graphed entering the earth’s atmosphere had been recovered from the
ground.

The rapid recovery of the Lost City meteorite allowed immediate
analysis of its very short-lived radioisotopes created by cosmic-ray
bombardment. Moreover, the photographic record of the meteor fall
provides information on the meteorite’s origin (from the asteroid belt
beyond the orbit of Mars) and its loss of mass in flight. This informa-
SCIENCE 47

tion is particularly valuable because the meteorite proved to be a
bronzite chondrite, a type that probably accounts for some 35 percent
of all falls. Thus, Lost City can provide a standard reference for
meteoriticists around the world. Moreover, the photographic data can
be used to calibrate information gathered on thousands of bright
meteors photographed by both the Prairie Network and other organi-
zations.

Because of the Observatory’s experience in the analysis of recovered
meteoritical material, three separate research groups were selected as
principal investigators of lunar material returned by the Apollo
astronauts.

One research group has been engaged in the mineralogical and
petrological studies of lunar sample particles through X-ray diffrac-
tion and electron-microprobe techniques. These researchers have found
an unexpected amount of gabbroic anorthosite in Apollo 11 samples.
These anorthosite materials match the chemical composition of ma-
terials from the lunar highlands, thus suggesting that the anorthosites
may be mountain fragments tossed onto Mare Tranquillitatis (the
Apollo 11 landing site) by cratering impacts.

Another group has been conducting analyses of Apollo 11 and 12
samples to measure precisely the amounts of argon 37 and tritium,
radioactive isotopes created by cosmic-ray bombardment. This re-
search not only reveals information concerning radiation levels on the
moon but also provides indications of the exposure age of the samples
themselves. In a parallel effort, a third group is conducting isotopic
analyses of lunar samples with a laser to free the radioactive gases for
mass-spectrometer study.

Studies of energetic phenomena are concerned with the nature of
newly discovered and largely unexplained sources of radiation far
outside the solar system, as well as with the physical processes in
stellar objects that hold clues to the creation and evolution of the
universe.

Proceedings of the April 1969 meeting on stellar atmospheres held
jointly by sao and the Harvard College Observatory have now been
published as Theory and Observation of Normal Stellar Atmospheres
(mir Press: 1970). This standard reference work will provide a base-
line for much stellar-physics research for the next five years. Specifi-
cally, the book gives spectral and other data for a reference set of 68
stellar atmospheres in an effective temperature range from 4000°
to 50,000°. This grid of model atmospheres was computed entirely at
the Observatory.

A companion volume to the comprehensive SAO Star Catalog is-
sued in 1966 has now been published by mir Press. The Smithsonian
48 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1970

Star Atlas, a boxed collection of 152 individual sky charts, is a boon to
professional and amateur astronomers alike. The same quarter of a
million stars listed in the catalog are graphically depicted, with spe-
cial designations of double stars and variable stars, as well as nonstel-
lar objects such as galaxies, globular clusters, and planetary nebulas.

Observing the universe at radio wavelengths with an 85-foot an-
tenna, SAO astronomers are searching for signals from chemical com-
pounds not heretofore known to exist in space. Radiation of this type
is thought to come from the extended cloud of rarefied gases between
the stars. Concurrent laboratory studies are identifying other com-
pounds possibly present in space and measuring their characteristic
wavelengths, thus providing a basis for intensive searches with radio
telescopes.

A laboratory experiment performed jointly by personnel of the
National Bureau of Standards and of the Smithsonian Astrophysical
Observatory now indicates that laser emission by water vapor may be
involved in the process that converts the energy of infrared stars into
the microwave line radiation observed from water and hydroxyl mole-
cules in space. The experiment shows that a far-infrared spectral line
emitted by a water-vapor laser has nearly the same frequency as an
infrared absorption line of the hydroxyl molecule. By tuning the hy-
droxyl absorption line with a variable magnetic field, the experiment-
ers determined the exact frequency difference and deduced that an
optical pumping of the hydroxyl vapor could occur, at low pressures,
when the two lines were brought into coincidence. In space, this fine
tuning might be achieved by Doppler shifts.

Smithsonian scientists are now analyzing the data produced by the
Celescope experiment onboard Nasa’s second Orbiting Astronomical
Observatory. More than 8500 photographs of over 2800 areas of the
sky were made during the experiment’s lifetime. The photographs
provide brightness data for more than 25,000 stars in each of three
ultraviolet regions and for a limited number of stars in a fainter
region, as well as new information about the moon and comets and
about hydrogen near the earth.

The search for sources of ultra-high-energy gamma rays by the
Observatory is being conducted with a 34-foot optical reflector at
Mt. Hopkins and with balloon-borne detectors launched from Texas
and India. The observations at Mt. Hopkins represent the most sensi-
tive searches ever conducted. While no discrete sources have yet been
conclusively identified, the Mt. Hopkins project has established new
standards for determining “background noise,’ disproved several spu-
rious sources, helped revise several theories, and produced valuable new
information on the magnetic field of the Crab Nebula and that of the
SCIENCE 49

radio galaxy Virgo A. Ultimately, gamma-ray astronomy may pro-
vide the key to our understanding of many phenomena, including
magnetic fields, the density of matter, and high-energy particles in
intergalactic space and radio sources.

Astronomy seems poised ready to achieve a fuller understanding of
the universe in the 1970s. The mysteries of pulsars, quasars, gamma
rays, antimatter, and other possible keys to the evolution of the uni-
verse are now nearer than ever to being solved. Naturally, success
depends significantly on new instrumentation. Therefore, the Observa-
tory has embarked on a long-range program to develop the advanced
tools needed for the future. This year, for example, the Observatory
installed at Mt. Hopkins a new 60-inch reflecting telescope for studies
of stellar and planetary atmospheres. Also, production began on a
series of advanced laser-ranging systems for both geophysical and
lunar sciences.

Looking to the future, the Observatory continued its design studies
to determine the feasibility of constructing a very large, but inexpen-
sive and lightweight, optical telescope using many small primary
mirrors rather than a single large one. Also, development began on an
improved hydrogen-maser system, the most precise timing device
known, which could vastly improve the accuracy of many astronomical
measurements. Finally, the Observatory continued towork on ad-
vanced design concepts that might greatly reduce the cost of construct-
ing the world’s largest, fully steerable radio telescope.

This foresighted approach to the development of new instrumenta-
tion should allow the Observatory to meet the critical research
requirements of this next decade.

Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute

Competition for scarce resources and life space is an increasingly
urgent problem of human society. It has always been a problem for the
organisms of the tropics, where the greatest diversity of life-forms on
earth produces intense competition among species. Understanding the
outcome of this interaction—in effect, the reasons for evolutionary
success or failure—is one of the principal objectives of the Smithson-
ian Tropical Research Institute (sTrt).

In this connection, we are also seeking to determine how and why
tropical floras and faunas differ from those of the rest of the world.
50 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1970

Diversities are greater in the tropics, ecological and behavioral rela-
tions among species are more complex than elsewhere, and new and
major types of adaptation to new ways of life are more likely to be
evolved by tropical species than those of other regions. The scientists of
the sTri staff, research associates, fellows, visiting scientists, and ad-
vanced students from institutions all over the world, are attempting
to describe these features in more precise, quantitative, mathematical,
or physical terms, and to discover causal relationships among them.

Gaining such an understanding of the tropical environment is
imperative. Human populations in the tropics are increasing very
rapidly and are headed for ecological disaster in the absence of ade-
quate information about their environment. In the north, we are con-
cerned about air pollution, entrophication of lakes, and the deleterious
effects of insecticides. In the tropics, the problems are more brutal.
Areas such as the hill country of Colombia and Panama, and the
whole island of Madagascar are fast becoming deserts. The basic
features of tropical ecology must be understood as quickly as possible.
Assembling new insight and understanding into a coherent picture of
the tropics as a whole—where one half of mankind lives—is another
continuing objective of the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute.
It offers a strong union of intellectual and environmental resources.
Advances were made in both realms in 1970.

During the year the community of workers in biology at sTRI grew
to include 9 staff biologists, 4 predoctoral and 6 postdoctoral fellows,
556 professional visitors (including 155 scientists and advanced stu-
dents working at srrt facilities for 4687 visitors days), from 62 uni-
versities in 31 states and 19 countries. Twenty-four seminars by staff
and visiting scientists were conducted at stri during this period.

The year saw continuation of an orderly progress of STRI re-
search into the tropical environs.

Exploration of marine areas was extended to the full length of the
Isthmus of Panama. With United States Navy cooperation, dives were
conducted in previously unexplored waters of the Pacific in western
Panama. Large constructional coral reefs, populations of the Crown-
of-Thorns starfish, nine species of fishes new to science and eleven new
to the fauna of Panama, in addition to two species of hydrocorals pre-
viously unreported in the eastern Pacific were the discovery highlights
of the initial expeditions. In the San Blas Islands, off the eastern
Panama Atlantic coast, a field team began exploration of complex reef
communities.

With a base camp at Barro Colorado Island, hydrobiologists
launched comparative studies on the dynamics of lakes, both natural
SCIENCE 5]

and man-made, in the lowlands and mountains of Panama, Colombia,
and Costa Rica.

On Barro Colorado Island itself, on a base of four decades of stud-
ies, an accelerating effort—including sixteen studies of one year or
longer—since 1965 is resulting in development of new methods for
discerning environmental adaptive strategies. Under study are biologi-
cal parameters such as reproductive strategies of forest trees, popula-
tion dynamics, and social organizations of possibly key organisms, com-
munication patterns and functions, and various questions of predatory
adaptations, energetics, and phenological characteristics. Thus, cor-
relative efforts may now proceed with greatly enhanced chances of
success.

Comparative studies elsewhere in the New World, and in the Old
World, are adding important new dimensions to the data on Panama
and are clarifying the distinctive biological role of the tropics. During
the year the staff and fellows of stri extended comparative studies
into the cold tropics of the Colombian Andes, into montane and low-
land continental regions of West Africa and India which vary inter-
estingly from Central America, and into the contrasting insular areas
of Madagascar and New Guinea.

Stri continued to concentrate on aspects of evolution, ecology, and
behavior, combining experimental analysis in the laboratory with ob-
servations in the field under natural conditions both in the Old and
New World tropics.

Adaptive strategies employed by organisms in their relationship to
their environment are particularly complex and varied in the tropics.
The adaptive aspects of plants, which have not been thoroughly stud-
ied in the past, are the concern of several studies: the nature of the
reproductive strategies employed by various tree species in the rich
Barro Colorado Forest; in-depth studies to delineate the complex
adaptations of orchids to their available insect resources; and com-
parative studies of the structure of tropical forests in both the New

and Old World.

The largest migration in 26 years of the day-flying moth Urania
fulgens was studied by Neal G. Smith. Billions of these conspicuous
moths crossed the isthmus toward South America between August
and October. Smith is trying to understand the adaptive significance
of this almost yearly migration which has been mentioned repeatedly
in newspaper and scientific literature as far back as the early 1800s.

Adaptive mechanisms of organisms in the marine environment
were brought under new study. Feeding experiments with visual fish
predators of the sand beach isopod Ancinus have shown a preference
52 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1970

for the most frequent pattern morph. This selective removal is con-
sidered important in affecting the polymorphic population structure.
The sea snake, Pelamis platurus, a docile, conspicuous, and highly
poisonous animal which at times is exceedingly abundant at the sur-
face along drift lines in the Pacific, was studied for its population
movements and basic biology by Chaim Kropach. Ira Rubinoff experi-
mented with potential fish predators of the snake in order to develop
a colonization model of theoretical as well as applied significance
should the animal gain introduction into the Atlantic. Pacific fishes
have adapted to avoid the snake, while Atlantic fishes of apparently
the same species eat them with avidity and are often bitten and die in
the process.

The partitioning of environmental resources among organisms is
being studied from a variety of perspectives, and on a variety of
species, with suprisingly different results in some cases. The relation-
ships between food niche overlap and food availability in stream
dwelling fishes was studied by Tom Zaret and A. Stanley Rand. They
found evidence that the degree of overlap correlated well with prey
abundance. On the other hand Henry Hespenheide has shown that
over a broad range of species and feeding habits of birds, the width
of niches as measured by prey size is a function only of the mean prey
size, and thus is independent of such factors as prey abundance and
foraging techniques of the birds. Related data gathered by Eugene
Morton indicates that while adult vireos eat insects in the rainy sea-
son, they eat fruit in the dry season when they breed, but feed their
young insects. This may be adaptation to reduce intraspecific com-
petition when insects are relatively scarce.

Amazingly, it has taken fifty-four years after its creation for Gatun
Lake to become a subject of intensive biological study. Z.M. Gliwicz
of the University of Warsaw, Department of Hydrobiology, undertook
a fifteen-month investigation of the primary and secondary productiy-
ity of Gatun and Madden lakes, and extended this comparative
analysis to lakes in Costa Rica and Colombia. A key purpose is to com-
pare the ecological efficiency of the primary production utilization by
plankton consumers in temperate and tropical lakes similar in mor-
phometry and trophic characteristics.

Intraspecific behavior is affected importantly by relations between
species, and their adaptations, as reflected in their “communication
systems.” The ways in which “messages,” whether simply or highly
specialized signals, mediate among organisms, and with the environ-
ment, is one of the principal pursuits of research at sTri. A. Stanley
Rand continued his studies of animal communication in amphibians
SCIENCE 53

Acanthaster planci observed for first time in Central America along the Pacific
shore of western Panama (Contreras Islands, 5 m depth, 30 April 1970).
Feeding on Pavona.

Underwater view of coral reef, a recently discovered community off southwestern
coast of Panama (Secas Islands, 3 m depth, 1 May 1970). Such reefs were pre-
viously thought not to exist along the Pacific shore of Panama.
54 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1970

and reptiles. In collaboration with George Drewry of the Puerto Rican
Nuclear Center, he analyzed the chorus structure in Puerto Rican
frogs. They found that species that chorus together vocalize at dif-
ferent frequencies, apparently to avoid interspecific jamming. Their
vocalizations also differ in a number of other ways, presumably encod-
ing other information.

Coral reefs in the eastern Pacific have been considered typically
represented by those in the relatively well-studied area of Panama
Bay. Srrr conducted two highly productive expeditions to the Secas
and Contreras islands which have made it clear that the interpretation
of biotic composition and species numbers between Atlantic and
Pacific coasts have been biased. Coral reefs and associated fauna of
considerable richness were found. Revealed for the first time along the
Pacific Ocean in Central America were the occurrence of large con-
structional coral reefs; populations of the Crown-of-Thorns starfish
(Acanthaster), an important predator and an associated shrimp
(Hymenocera) ; a coelenterate hydrocoral group represented by at least
two species of the stinging form Millepora; and several fish species
previously known only from the western Pacific biogeographic region.

In its educational emphasis sTRI serves as an advanced studies
center. Informal guidance and association mark the sTri professional
contribution to independent studies by visiting scientists, research
fellows, and advanced students. More than seventy projects by visitors
were accommodated in 1970.

Seminar programs were offered and attended by staff and students
from other research and educational institutions on the Isthmus of
Panama.

Stri scientists also extended their educational contributions else-
where. During the year they conducted seminars at the University of
Panama, University of California, University of Chicago, Cornell
University, Harvard University, Rockefeller University, Washington
University, and elsewhere. Courses were conducted at the University
of Mexico by Dr. Dressler, at the University of Pennsylvania by Drs.
Rand and Robinson, and at Princeton University by Dr. Leigh.

The Organization of Tropical Studies conducted a major portion of
its marine sciences summer course at STRI.

The Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute is indebted for the
continuing excellent cooperation extended by the government and
agencies of the Republic of Panama, by the Panama Canal Company
and Canal Zone government, by the United States Southern Command,
and by our fellow research and educational institutions throughout the
Isthmus of Panama, and in Colombia.
SCIENCE 4)

Radiation Biology Laboratory

From a number of small buildings in the old Astrophysical Observa-
tory Yard south of the Smithsonian Building and a few small rooms
scattered throughout the Smithsonian Building, the Radiation Biology
Laboratory has been relocated to new modern quarters in Rockville,
Maryland. The new facility is a two-story structure designed to meet
specialized requirements of the areas of biological and environmental
research relating to the program of the laboratory. The areas of inves-
tigation are principally in the field of regulatory biology and include:
(1) physiology, (2) biochemical processes of developmental responses
to light, and (3) measurement of solar radiation. In addition, the lab-
oratory maintains a carbon-dating facility for archeological and
anthropological research and for research and development in carbon-
dating techniques.

The new building provides about fifty thousand square feet of space
and includes plant physiology, biochemistry, biophysics, genetics, and
biology laboratories. There is a staff office, a general laboratory work
area, small handling and preparation rooms, and special function
rooms, such as controlled temperature units, drak-growth rooms, and
light-treatment facilities. A Phillips, Model 300, electron microscope
has been installed. Low-level counting systems for radiocarbon dating
and a standards laboratory for photometric and radiometric calibrat-
ing standards are being installed. Several large areas are planned for
environmental control rooms, a temperature-controlled greenhouse,
and specialized irradiation systems, such as monochromators for action
spectra determinations. Installation of equipment is in progress.

The support facilities for the laboratory include a small auditorium,
a library, secretarial and administrative offices, and an instrument
shop for servicing the laboratory research programs.

The monitoring and recording of radiation measurements was con-
tinued at the Mall location throughout the year. An additional facility
at Rockville was installed and is functioning. The personnel comple-
ment at the station in Jerusalem, Israel, was completed, and data are
being accumulated on a continuous basis. A new radiometric instru-
ment has been developed through joint efforts of the Smithsonian
Radiation Biology Laboratory and Eppley Laboratories for extending
the monitoring of spectral quality of daylight to include pre-sunrise
and post-sunset periods when biological clocks are presumed to be
activated. This area of solar radiation measurement is a new phase of
investigation in physical measurements for biological purposes.
BG SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1970

In the research area of the electron microscopy study of the fine struc-
ture of algae, recent evidence obtained revealed that there are major
structural differences in the location of the phycobiliproteins (photo-
synthetic accessory pigments). In red and blue-green algae they are
aggregated on the stroma side of the photosynthetic lamellae, while in
the photosynthetic cryptophyte algae, the phycobilins are located in
the intrathylakoidal spaces. The known chemical and structural dif-
ferences lead to the conclusion that these pigments appeared indepen-
dently in evolutionary development.

There have been several recent additions to the staff. Dr. Roy Hard-
ing, geneticist, will assume the direction of work on chromosome
aberrations induced by ultraviolet radiation and will also undertake
work on the genetics of photoperiodism. Dr. Andrew Snope will assist
with this work. Dr. Maurice Margulies has spent the past year on
sabbatical leave at Harvard University.

Despite curtailment of research necessitated by the relocation, a
number of research papers were completed and published by members
of the staff. Staff members participated in scientific meetings and
conferences, both national and international.

National Zoological Park

The National Zoological Park celebrates this year the 80th anniver-
sary of its founding in 1890. From a small menagerie housed in the
rolling woodland of Rock Creek Park, it has grown into one of the
important zoos of the world.

One important action taken this year resulted in the Zoo being
transferred from the budget of the District of Columbia to the appro-
priation of the Smithsonian Institution. This will lead to a change of
emphasis regarding education, conservation, and advancement of
science and should lead to the development of a truly National Zoo, so

that it will no longer be mistakenly referred to as “the Washington
Zoo.”

The new hospital-and research building was completed in December
1969 and is partially occupied. The Scientific Research Department
has already moved into its offices and laboratories. The Animal Health
Department and the Office of the Pathologist will transfer to the new
building shortly. The spacious, thoroughly modern facility is located
near the Director’s office on Administration Hill.
SCIENCE 57

Madame Suharto, wife of the President of Indonesia, presents Dr. Reed with a
photograph of the Komodo dragon, gift of her government. Mrs. Soedjatmoko,
wife of the Indonesian Ambassador, looks on.

Fieldwork in connection with the Ceylon elephant project, begun in
1967, has been completed. This was headed by resident scientist, John
F. Eisenberg and was undertaken as a Smithsonian project in coopera-
tion with the Ceylon government. The primate study in that country
is continuing.

The status of the collection remains about the same. The aim of the
National Zoological Park is to obtain collections of diversified animal
groups, rather than solitary individuals, so that reproduction, espe-
cially of rare species, may be encouraged.!

1 Certain tabulated, statistical, and other information formerly contained in
the report of the National Zoological Park in the Smithsonian Year now appears
as appendixes to the Separate of this Report (available on request from the
Director of the National Zoological Park). This information contains: visitor
statistics and other operational information; report of the Veterinarian, aug-
mented by case histories and autopsy reports; report of the pathologist; and
complete lists of (a) animals in the collection on 30 June 1970; (b) all births

and hatchings during the year; (c) changes in the collection by gift, purchase,
or exchange.
58 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1970

Many exciting and valuable gifts were received during the year.
Through the good offices of Crawford H. Greenewalt, a Regent of the
Smithsonian, a notable collection of New Guinea fauna was acquired.
This consisted of four birds of paradise of two different species, a king
parrot, an orange lory, three tree kangaroos, and six sugar gliders.

The government of Indonesia presented the National Zoo with a
Komodo dragon as a mate for the lone female that the Zoo has had
since 1967. When President Suharto and his wife paid a state visit to
Washington, Mrs. Suharto came to the Zoo, bringing with her a
photograph of the huge male, which arrived a few days later on 27
May.

Another gift from a foreign government was a pair of tuataras. The
rare reptile is considered a bridge between the living reptiles of today
and those of prehistoric times. These were formally presented by
Ambassador Frank Corner of New Zealand at a ceremony in the
reptile house on 4 June. Tuataras are often referred to as “living
fossils” because they are the sole survivors of the age of reptiles and
have scarcely changed since the Triassic Period of 200 million years

4

Moni, the newest of the white tigers, and friends on Lion House Hill.
(Photo by Ellis. )
SCIENCE 59

ago. They are being carefully protected in simulated native habitat.
There are only two others in United States zoos.

The number of births continues to be gratifying. There was one
tragedy, however; Mohini, the white tigress, gave birth to four cubs,
two white and two normal color, on 8 March. Forty-eight hours later
she gave birth to another cub, stillborn, and in the course of labor she
fell on three of the first born, killing them. Moni, the lone survivor, a
white male, was removed from her den and successfully reared in the
Director’s home. He is now on exhibition at the Zoo.

An orangutan and a black rhinoceros were born during the year, and
antelopes acquired over the past few years, since the establishment of
the new hoofed-stock area, are now reproducing satisfactorily. The
number of hatchings at the bird house surpassed any former year and
included some that had not previously occurred here.

Although hiring of personnel has been restricted, the Zoo was for-
tunate in getting an architect on the staff, Mr. Norman Melun, who
reported for work on 4 May. This enables the Zoo to set up a planning
division, which will oversee the development and modernization of

the Park.

After many months of investigation and discussion, the Friends of
the National Zoo were finally able to inaugurate the running of three
trackless trains. There are three train stations and visitors may board
at any one of them, ride to the next stop, view the animals and continue
either on the same train or on the next one that comes along. These
rides are proving very popular, and proceeds from the sale of tickets
will go to the Friends’ educational fund.

Office of Environmental Sciences

On 28 October 1970 the Secretary established the office of Environ-
mental Sciences in order to “make more visible the Smithsonian Insti-
tution’s broad spectrum of research projects in the environmental
sciences and improve the opportunities for attracting financial support
and scientific collaboration.” Building on the accomplishments of the
Ecology Program and the Oceanography and Limnology Program, the
Office has continued a series of activities to bring the Smithsonian to
the attention of national and international scientific groups including
funding agencies.
60 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1970

Recognizing that the care and study of the research collections are a
principal function of the largest Smithsonian bureau, the National
Museum of Natural History (NMNH), the office places its greatest
emphasis in collaboration with this program. Support is sought for
and provided to scientists in NMNH_ in several ways. Collecting
expeditions are supported by incorporating plans of Smithsonian sci-
entists into international programs, such as the U.S. Antarctic Pro-
gram and the Southeast Asia Ministers of Education BIoTROP
project developed in Indonesia. The International Union for Conser-
vation of Nature and Natural Resources developed field conferences
and symposia with Smithsonian participation and the Cooperative
Investigations of the Mediterranean will include Smithsonian collect-
ing. Other cooperative bilateral collecting was arranged by the Office
in Taiwan, Iran, Australia, Ceylon, Israel, Tunisia, Thailand, Laos,
Cambodia, New Zealand, Chile, Brazil, British Honduras, United
States and French Pacific Trust Territories, Japan, Korea, India,
Pakistan, Kenya, Ethiopia, Indonesia, Malta, France, Italy, Jamaica,
Panama, Argentina, Ecuador, and other countries.

The results of marine collecting are received and sorted by two
processing centers, the Smithsonian Oceanographic Sorting Center
and the Mediterranean Marine Sorting Center. The masses of material
collected by nets, trawls, and dredges are such that there is a sub-
stantial backlog of work to be accomplished. In increasing the avail-
ability of sorting, distribution, and identification services the Office
has proposed and is negotiating the establishment of sorting centers in
South America (Chile) and in Asia (Indonesia or the Philippines.)
These centers recognize the requirement for utilization of the research
and identification of hundreds of scientists in work on marine collec-
tions and arrange the participation of competent marine scientists
wherever they exist in the world. In addition to using all available
NMNH scientists it has been possible to enroll about three hundred
non-Smithsonian scientists in twenty-seven countries of the world, who
work to gain information from the collections made available by the
sorting centers.

Even with the above collections-related scientific effort, there are
biological taxa which need attention because of special interest from
an agency standpoint. Using money for Antarctic studies, the Office
provides funds for specialists to carry on the necessary identifications
and related research in certain taxa, which are potentially important
as Antarctic resources. In a similar manner the Office stimulates the
production of keys to freshwater organisms of importance to the Fed-
eral Water Quality Administration.
SCIENCE 61

Within available resources the Office supports inadequately funded
Smithsonian scientists by assisting with the purchase of collections,
assisting with publication costs, and meeting otherwise unfunded re-
quirements such as visiting other museums. Assistance is provided in
recruitment of personnel to fill gaps in Smithsonian scientific capabili-
ties. Consultants are provided to advise on scientific problems and in
special cases a person may be employed temporarily to fill an NMNH
need, pending the establishment of a NMNH position.

The possible role of the Smithsonian in national and international
plans is considered within and outside the federal government. Inter-
ests of the Smithsonian are written into projects having appropriate
objectives. Liaison is maintained for this purpose with the National
Council for Marine Resources and Engineering Development, the
Federal Council for Science and Technology, the Council on Environ-
mental Quality, the National Water Commission, and broad projects
of the Departments of State, Defense, Interior, Health, Education and
Welfare, the National Science Foundation, and Atomic Energy Com-
mission. Close association is also maintained with programs of the
National Academy of Sciences.

In attracting financial support the Office develops concepts appro-
priate to funding by public and private agencies and individuals in as
varied a nature as possible within the time available. Funding of such
ideas was received from the National Science Foundation, Atomic
Energy Commission, Coast Guard, Coast and Geodetic Survey, Naval
Oceanographic Office, Office of Naval Research, Army Engineers,
Bureau of Commercial Fisheries, National Institutes of Health, De-
partment of State, Federal Water Quality Administration, Agency for
International Development, National Academy of Sciences, American
Association for the Advancement of Sciences, Woods Hole Oceano-
graphic Institution, American Institute of Biological Sciences, Link
Foundation, Vetlesen Foundation, Iran Foundation, Atlantic Founda-
tion, TaiPing Foundation, Asia Foundation, Smithsonian Research
Foundation, Smithsonian Foreign Currency Program, Edwin A. Link,
J. Seward Johnson, Carl Dry, Alpine Geophysics, Incorporated, and
Ocean Systems, Incorporated.

Current program development lies in such broad program areas as
(1) environmental assessment and prediction as a result of man’s
activities, (2) provision and protection of natural areas, (3) expedit-
ing collections and related research, (4) developing Smithsonian par-
ticipation in national and international environmental programs, (5)
providing ship and underwater support of research, and (6) operating
the Chesapeake Bay Center for Environmental Studies in such a way
62 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1970

as to insure its productivity and viability as a model watershed, a
natural preserve, and a local asset.

Center for the Study of Man

In its second year of operation the Center for the Study of Man has
continued to carry out a number of cooperative research and informa-
tion programs in the human sciences. The most important single
development of the year occurred at the second annual meeting of the
full membership held at the Smithsonian during 16-19 May 1970. The
members agreed that the Center should become in effect an interna-
tional studies center devoted to adding anthropological perspective to
understanding of such major world problems as war, colonialism, de-
structive nationalism, gross inequalities, racism, poverty, technological
and urban overdevelopment, irreversible environmental destruction,
population growth, alienation, anomie, and lack of generational con-
tinuity. The Center will establish annually a new international “task
force” of research anthropologists and other scientists to deal for a
limited time (perhaps five years) with a selected and closely defined
facet of one of these major problems. The first problem to be inves-
tigated is human fertility. A working paper has been commissioned
and the work of assembling resources is underway.

The American Indian program of the Center was very active
throughout the past year. A major objective of this program is to
assist Indians in achieving goals which they have set for themselves.
This has been done in a modest way by sending them difficult-to-
obtain materials free of charge, by referring them to anthropologists
and other scholars who can help them in matters involving their
rights, by referring them to other Indian groups with similar prob-

lems, and by advising them in matters where they have requested our
knowledge.

The program to computerize a roster of 4700 anthropologists
throughout the world has been completed. The results of this pro-
gram, carried out in conjunction with the Smithsonian Information
Systems Division and with the support of the Wenner-Gren Founda-
tion for Anthropological Research will appear in a forthcoming issue
of the world-wide anthropological journal Current Anthropology.

The Center has continued to coordinate the Urgent Anthropology
Program. Six grants involving four different countries have been
SCIENCE 63

made under the Small Grants Program for urgent research. Some
results of this program are now beginning to be received and one such
is the discovery of a new Java Man skull by Professor Sartono of the
Bandung Institute in Indonesia.

The current bibliography of anthropological publications has con-
tinued to develop under the direction of Dr. Robert M. Laughlin. In
the past year a total of 6800 titles has been classified and readied for
publication. To date 2439 have been published and the remainder
will continue to appear bimonthly.

A special committee on the proposed National Museum of Man,
chaired by Dr. Irven DeVore, met in February 1970 to develop plans
for relating the Center to the proposed Museum. The report of this
meeting, presented to Secretary Ripley at the Center’s meeting in May,
precipitated the subsequent resolution on the part of the membership
to move the Center in its new direction.

Center for Short-Lived Phenomena

The Center for Short-Lived Phenomena now has more than 2500
registered correspondents located in 124 countries of the world includ-
ing 956 earth science correspondents, 379 biological science correspon-
dents, 266 astrophysical science correspondents, 189 urgent anthro-
pology/urgent archaeology correspondents, 191 Transient Lunar
Phenomena correspondents, and 372 multidisciplinary correspondents.

During 1969 the Center reported to scientists around the world
145 short-lived events that occurred in 58 countries including 61 earth
science events, 52 biological science events, 24 astrophysical science
events, and 4 urgent archeological and 2 urgent anthropological events.
Scientific teams investigated at least 102 of the 145 events reported
by the Center in 1969.

The Center reported 18 volcanic eruptions in Alaska, Antarctica,
Costa Rica, Hawaii, Indonesia, Japan, the Mariana Islands, New
Zealand, Nicaragua, Peru, the Philippines, and the Soviet Union.

The Center reported 18 other earth science events during the year,
including major landslides in Sweden, Hungary, Finland, Israel, and
the Azores, two submarine volcanic eruptions in the Marianas and the
Solomon Islands, a major tidal wave in China, a natural gas eruption
in Yugoslavia, a major flood in China, a major mud flow in Hungary,
a rockfall in the French Alps, a storm surge in the Hawaiian Islands,
64 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1970

and a floating island in the Caribbean. At least 42 of the 61 earth
science events were investigated by one or more field research teams.

The Center reported 52 biological events, including 12 oil spills in
the Netherlands, England, France, South Africa, Alaska, and the
continental United States; 19 animal kills in Ireland, Spain, Peru,
Canada, England, South Africa, and the United States; 11 animal
irruptions, migrations, and colonizations occurring in Australia, Pan-
ama, Trinidad, Peru, Alaska and the United States; six pollution
events occurring in the Philippine Islands, Peru, Germany and the
United States; and two major flora kills occurring in Japan and the
United States.

At least 46 of the 52 biological events reported by the Center in
1969 were investigated by one or more field research teams.

The Center reported 24 astrophysical events including 17 major
fireball events in Japan, Greece, Mexico, Malawi, Brazil, Tunisia,
Canada, Australia, New Zealand, and the United States; 4 meteorite
falls in Mexico, Czechoslovakia, Australia, and Ireland; and several
transient lunar events that occurred during Apollo manned lunar
missions.

Specimens of all four meteorites were quickly recovered and sent to
laboratories for radioisotope analysis. Delay between the time of the
fall of the objects and the time they arrived in measuring laboratories
ranged from four days for “Allende” to eighteen days for “Murchison”
with the average being eleven days. In addition, fireball ablation pro-
ducts were successfully sampled in the atmosphere by high altitude air
collection aircraft within 12-18 hours after the “Allende” event
occurred.

During 1969 the Center reported two urgent anthropological events
(the discovery of two new tribes in Surinam and Colombia) and four
urgent archeological events.

The Center issued 143 event notification reports, 523 event informa-
tion reports, 12 event publications, and handled a communications
volume of 245,000 cable words and a mail volume of 390,000 pieces
during 1969.
HISTORY AND ART
} ped o Medibea lke a Ul toa reeds Ae baa 49 ats ie

‘lida wee irae ioe : Ts Ay ab SO eran FENG) my me

1) au bd! ea oF 4 Ms ¥ a ; 7 teal a : :
tyr havi SE a tay nd

, ‘ a.
pl eit Re en ; 4 pe aaa

Hin via My ai 4 hi titel) Sa
AT tidy ‘ 1

8 aya i i \ ea) | ti vat
jfile [1 Te a of dats . HOT AES :

i ce
Lia i } i* Aree
} 5 j ; ae waa "

ea ® % tabi ‘ , y I 4 ‘ .
mt ay i} f CAG Ly CHAR SIT) B72 Catt iy ;

A} i V4 1 i

; ‘4 ive ae

% " rT ae 1) Shi ee her CBS Sar

j iwi Hy a rT | j eo) eat if
— Ne

\
‘ ve

* er

ae "

er u
5] ies FISCAL YEAR 1970 was one of real accomplishments and of

real promise in the areas of history and art at the Smithsonian.
As the National Collection of Fine Arts and the National Portrait
Gallery settled more comfortably into their quarters in the historic
Patent Office Building, construction on the Joseph H. Hirshhorn Mu-
seum and Sculpture Garden began, the refurbishing of the Renwick
Gallery continued, and the Cooper-Hewitt Museum prepared to
move into the Andrew Carnegie Mansion of New York’s Fifth Avenue.

In every case, our history and art bureaus, often with the valuable
assistance of their advisory boards and commissions, emerged from a
serious consideration of their purposes and plans with a strengthened
sense of mission and identity. Although increased appropriations were
not the order of the day this year, we are sure that this sharpened
sense of purpose, this exercise in self-definition, will allow each of our
bureaus to make the best possible use of the funds that are available to
it.

This was also a year in which the Smithsonian welcomed a number
of extraordinary new directors, whose several qualifications range
from brilliant service in other museums, or in other parts of the Smith-
sonian, to academic distinction of the highest sort. Since it is our
museum and bureau directors who must formulate and carry out the
Institution’s programs in history and art, this infusion of new talent
and enthusiasm augurs well for the future.

In addition to the exhibitions and acquisitions mentioned below, a
special word should be said about the coming to the Smithsonian of
the Archives of American Art. This enormously important archival
resource will strengthen the position of the Smithsonian as a leading
national center for the study of American civilization; the presence of
the Archives has already made itself felt in our successful efforts to
recruit distinguished scholars to the staffs of our various museums.

In addition to the obvious and satisfying progress of each of our
history and art bureaus, it is pleasant to report that relations among
them seem more cordial than ever. The transfer of portraits from
the National Collection of Fine Arts to the National Portrait Gallery,
as urged by the Portrait Gallery Commission, as well as the transfer of
three Augustus Saint-Gaudens reliefs to the National Collection of
Fine Arts from the National Portrait Gallery was a case in point. The
Cooper-Hewitt Museum’s gracious loan of a number of Winslow
Homer paintings to the National Collection of Fine Arts, where they

67
68 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1970

are now beautifully displayed, is another. As the Institution enters a
period of intensive preparation for the celebration of the Bicentennial
of the American Revolution, we are confident that the strengths of our
individual bureaus, and their willingness to work together in a com-
mon cause, will prove worthy to this great occasion.

National Museum of History and Technology

The announcement made in January 1969 of the appointment of
Dr. Daniel J. Boorstin as the Director of the National Museum of
History and Technology signalized the search for a fresh approach to
history in the museum world. Coming from the Department of His-
tory of the University of Chicago, Dr. Boorstin assumed his new
responsibilities in October.

He immediately directed his efforts, with the cooperation of his
scholarly staff, to the development of new programs designed to
widen, deepen, and enlarge the visitors’ museum involvement by re-
capturing man’s experience in everyday life in the nation’s past. By
employing innovative techniques in exhibition and by reinterpretation
of the unwritten documents of American civilization which form the
national collections, new emphasis is being directed to several hitherto
neglected aspects of the Museum’s functions and capabilities.

A sweeping new program of visitor orientation was instituted to
make the Museum’s holdings and facilities more readily accessible and
meaningful to the more than five million visitors who come to it each
year. Several successful elements of this program, designed to provide
useful guidance to the public at various levels, have already been initi-
ated. A series of special tour brochures to provide self-guidance to the
visitor was produced to highlight particular aspects of history pre-
sented in the Museum and specialized subject interests. A continuing
series of changing special exhibits at the Mall entrance commemorate
historical events of national importance and traditional American
holidays. Through a display of selected materials (including national
treasures from the collections and incorporating modern audio-visual
techniques), the holiday exhibits orient the public to the other dis-
plays within the Museum on related subjects. More elaborate orienta-
tion techniques and programs to assist the public more effectively in
the use of the Museum are being developed.
HISTORY AND ART 69

The emerging new role of the Museum as the national center for
the study of American civilization was recognized in the annual ban-
quet of the Society of American Historians, for which the Museum
served as host, and at which presentations of the Francis Parkman Prize
and the Allan Nevins Prize were made.

Considerable effort has been directed in the past year to develop
plans for the Museum’s role in the forthcoming celebration of the
American Revolution Bicentennial. Planning for a comprehensive
program combining exhibits, conferences, and publications is in
progress.

The continuing exhibits program of the Museum has been redi-
rected to feature selected materials from major collections which have

Samuel Slater carding machine, circa 1790, on display in the Hall of Textiles,
National Museum of History and Technology.
70 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1970

not yet been exhibited, and material aspects of American life which
have not been acknowledged elsewhere in the exhibition areas. Dis-
played for the first time in the Museum is a new exhibit incorporating
significant historical machinery and products of the American textile
industry. In a representative sampling of American textiles organized
by the curator, Rita Adrosko, the historic carding machine of Samuel
Slater and components of Slater’s spinning machine are highlighted.
These machines, which were made about 1790, brought textile produc-
tion out of the home into a developing American textile industry.
Featured also is the only Jacquard loom in operable condition in any
American museum. The exhibit includes programmed spinning and
weaving demonstrations by members of the staff.

“Energy Conversion,” a special exhibit prepared by Warren Danzen-
baker under the direction of Bernard S. Finn, was opened in September
and illustrated the methods of converting energy sources to electrical

School group watching Mrs. Lois Vann spinning wool on an 18th-century
woolwheel from Virginia, in the National Museum of History and Technology.
HISTORY AND ART Tak

power. Historic specimens in the national collections were displayed
together with significant artifacts donated by related industries. Among
these were the world’s first fuel-cell tractor and an Apollo spacecraft
fuel cell, as well as a thermoelectric generator and numerous other
artifacts, which demonstrated the story of man’s harnessing of heat,
sunlight, and chemical energy.

Renewed efforts have been made by the Museum’s scholarly staff
as part of a long-range program to render the displayed collections
more meaningful to the public, by attempting to recapture the
environment of the past in which the materials exhibited play a role.

A conference and exhibit on “The Roots of California Culture,”
conceived and developed by C. Malcolm Watkins, were held at the
Oakland Museum in April, and sponsored jointly by the Museum’s
Department of Cultural History, the University of California Exten-
sion, and the Oakland Museum. Six curators presented papers focused
on the background environments of the major groups that settled
California, cumulative material cultures that conditioned them, and
the industrial technology that emerged in the nineteenth century to
effect the cultural changes that made California a “nation within a
nation.” A special exhibition related to the original man-made en-
vironment and material culture that emerged after the settlement of
the West was prepared in the National Museum of History and
Technology, which drew from its reserve collections of objects of

A special exhibit on energy conversion showing the development of fuel-cell
technology, in the Hall of Electricity, National Museum of History and
Technology.
he SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1970

everyday life in pre-industrial and Victorian America and were com-
bined with materials from the Oakland Museum. The exhibition will
tour other museums and institutions in California on continuing
display.

Special exhibits, produced during the year, have ranged from
“Women in Politics,’ which was conceived by Keith E. Melder and
opened in May to commemorate the founding of the League of
Women Voters, to a temporary hall planned by Philip W. Bishop,
featuring artifacts and models in a historical approach to remind the
visitor of the size and importance of the American iron and steel
industry.

The maintenance and development of the national collection con-
tinued to be a major concern of the curatorial staff, with a total of
104,731 additions made to the Museum’s holdings in the past year.
Although the major part of the Museum’s acquisitions are accepted
for display, there is nevertheless equal curatorial concern for develop-
ing the Museum’s resources for study by the curatorial staff and visit-
ing scholars and students. Among such significant new study accessions
was a collection of approximately thirteen thousand glass and film
negatives recording the production of the Pullman Car Works for a
period of almost half a century from 1885 to 1932. This plant is of
particular significance to railroad history because it built not only the
elegant sleeping and parlor cars for the Pullman Company, but it also
produced thousands of freight cars.

The Museum benefited by a generous gift of almost the entire col-
lection of old type matrices owned by the American Type Founders, a
unique collection consisting of thousands of sets of nineteenth-century
matrices made by independent foundries. Arrangements have been
completed by the curator, Elizabeth M. Harris, to have fonts of type
from the more significant mats cast by private subscribers on the con-
dition that a font of each be deposited in the collection. A checklist of
the mats is in preparation and an illustrated catalog with the histories,
specifications, illustrations, and identifications will be one of the valu-
able products of this project. This is merely one example of the many
ways in which the Museum not only serves the public in its avowed
functions as the keeper of the national collections with its exhibits and
publications, but also preserves more pedestrian aspects of the Ameri-
can heritage.

Continuing his program of studies in industrial archeology, Robert
M. Vogel documented by interview, by physical measurement, and with
motion picture film, the process of manufacturing wooden wheels—
a process virtually unchanged in the Hoopes Bro. & Darlington
factory in Westchester, Pennsylvania, since the end of the nineteenth
HISTORY AND ART 73

century. Similarly in the field of medical science, Audrey Davis under-
took a study of the development of the gastroscope, with interviews of
individuals connected with its early history and filming of the manu-
facture of the instrument at the original United States plant, which
was established in the 1940s.

In the Division of Postal History, Carl H. Scheele and Reidar Norby
developed a series of exhibits of postal issues of groups of countries,
which in addition to providing continuing displays resulted in the
acquisition of important stamps and postal objects, and added depth
and broadness to the study collections which are utilized by numerous
visiting researchers.

A deliberate program has been initiated for the acquisition of new
collections of historical materials not already represented in the na-
tional collections. This program will enlist the cooperation of the
related industries. Plans are proceeding for development of collections
and exhibits of the history of American advertising art, the history of
early broadcasting and radio, and similar aspects of American life
which previously have not been the subject matter of museums.

Archives of American Art

On 1 May 1970 the Archives of American Art formally joined the
Smithsonian Instution as a bureau.

The Archives, which was founded in Detroit in 1954 as an in-°
dependent research institution, is committed to encouraging and aid-
ing scholarship in the visual arts in this country from the 18th century
to the present time. It acts to achieve this goal by acquiring and pre-
serving the primary documentation needed by historians—the cor-
respondence, diaries, business papers, and photographs, of painters,
sculptors, critics, dealers, and collectors, and the formal records of
galleries, museums, and art organizations. These collections of papers
are microfilmed and made available to scholars in a series of regional
branch offices and through interlibrary loans.

The processing and chief reference center of the Archives is now
located in space provided by the National Collection of Fine Arts/
National Portrait Gallery Library. Regional branch offices operate in
New York and Detroit and field offices were established in 1970 in
Boston and Santa Fe.
74, SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1970

During the past year the Archives has acquired over 100,000 items.
Among the more important collections received were the papers of
William Baziotes, Cecilia Beaux, Karl Bitter, Herbert Ferber, Palmer
Hayden, Ibram Lassaw, Guy Pene du Bois, José de Rivera, and Ben
Shahn. Of particular interest is a large collection of records accumu-
lated by Charles Henry Hart, an authority on 18th and early 19th cen-
tury portraiture.

The Archives’ oral history program continued its activities with a
series of tape-recorded interviews with administrators and other fig-
ures in the New York art world. This work was made possible by a
grant from the New York State Council on the Arts. Among those
people interviewed were Harvard Arnason, Ralph Colin, Lawrence
Fleischman, Henry Geldzahler, Huntington Hartford, and Gordon
Washburn.

Trustees

Russell Lynes, President Abraham Melamed

Howard W. Lipman, Vice President

Harold O. Love, Vice President

Mrs. Otto L. Spaeth, Vice President

Stanford C. Stoddard,
Secretary-Treasurer

Harry Baldwin

Irving F. Burton

Edmond duPont

Joseph H. Hirshhorn

James Humphry III

Miss Milka Iconomoff

Eric Larrabee

Robert L. McNeil, Jr.

Advisory Committee

James Humphry III, Chairman
Milton O. Brown

Lloyd Goodrich

Eugene C. Goossen

Harry D. M. Grier

James J. Heslin

John Howat

Bernard Karpel

Edgar Kaufmann, Jr.

John A. Kouwenhoven

Henry Pearlman

Mrs. William L. Richards
E. P. Richardson

Chapin Riley

Girard L. Spencer
Edward M. M. Warburg

James Wineman

Willis F. Woods

S. Dillon Ripley, ex officio

Charles Blitzer, ex officio
Lawrence A. Fleischman, Honorary
Mrs. Edsel B. Ford, Honorary

Karl Kup

Eric Larrabee

A. Hyatt Mayor

J. T. Rankin

Daniel J. Reed

Charles van Ravenswaay
Marvin Sadik

Joshua Taylor

William B. Walker
Richard P. Wunder
HISTORY AND ART 75

Freer Gallery of Art

Mr. Freer understood that the most effective way to study a civili-
zation, to learn what motivated the thinking of men in other times
and other parts of the world, was to study the finest things they made.
The investigation of the reasons why men made these beautiful things,
and the research into the nature of the materials of which they were
made, and the methods used to fashion those materials cannot but
yield basic information about the men themselves and the civilizations
they created. Thus the twofold program envisaged by Mr. Freer in-
volves the continuing search for works of oriental art of the highest
quality that may be added to the Freer Gallery collections and the con-
tinuing study of these works of art as keys to understanding the civili-
zations that produced them. This research in all its manifold aspects is
the basic task of the professional staff of the Freer Gallery; and all the
supporting services of the Gallery (library, photographic laboratory,
oriental picture-mounting studio, technical laboratory, etc.) operate
to expedite and facilitate this research. Members of the curatorial staff
travel frequently and widely in order to be familiar with the latest
additions to other collections, to examine archeological sites and find-
ings, and to meet and discuss problems of mutual interest with col-
leagues who are engaged in related research. At the same time, we re-
ceive and give every cooperation to all scholars, including many from
Europe and Asia, who come to the Freer Gallery to make use of our
unparalleled resources both in the collections themselves and in the
study facilities. We also give guidance and encouragement to gradu-
ate students in the field who come to the Gallery either for short
visits or for protracted periods under established fellowship programs.

Work of this kind does not lend itself to sensational discoveries. It
proceeds slowly, and when something important is accomplished, it is
published. Our public is to be found among the users of 500-odd li-
braries and universities all over the world that receive Freer publica-
tions free of charge. The books are also widely sold. Our most recent
work, published this year, was the second volume of The Freer
Chinese Bronzes, which deals with the technical aspects of the subject.
This was a pioneering effort in that it is the first book ever devoted to
the study of the materials and methods which produced the magnifi-
cent vessels that are the glory of the Bronze Age in China and one of
the finest artistic achievements in the history of mankind.
76 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1970

To maintain the atmosphere that fosters productive research, to con-
tinue adding to the sum of knowledge of the civilizations of the East,
to publish and make available this information to the interested
world, these matters are the concen of those who are responsible for
the operation of the Freer Gallery.

Chinese stone sculpture of Buddha, dated 29 April A.D. 521 during the Northern
Wei Dynasty.
HISTORY AND ART 77

National Collection of Fine Arts

The year was marked by a series of major exhibitions organized and
shown by the National Collection of Fine Arts and the first steps to-
ward the reorganization of the permanent collection and establishment
of new activities in the areas of education and research. The most
notable of the temporary exhibitions, all with catalogs, were the large
retrospective of the work of Milton Avery; the very popular exhibition

’

“Explorations,” organized by the International Art Program and pro-
duced by the Center for Advanced Visual Studies under Gyorgy Kepes
at Massachusetts Institute of Technology; and a mid-career retrospec-
tive of the work of Leonard Baskin. In connection with “Explora-
tions,’ several special events were scheduled—musical performances,
a poetry reading, and an expanded program of experimental films. A
handsomely installed exhibition of Tibetan Art prepared by Asia
House was shown, although the policy will now be to exhibit only

American art and related material in the Fine Arts Gallery.

Various areas of the building were redesigned and systematic stor-
age areas reinstalled. A larger portion of the permanent collection was
placed on exhibition and an easily accessible print and drawing study
room was instituted. ‘wo small exhibitions, one devoted to Winslow
Homer (chiefly of works from the Cooper-Hewitt Museum) and one
made up of painting and sculpture from the 1930s, inaugurated a new
policy of informal exhibitions underscoring various aspects of the per-
manent collection.

Activity with local school children continued at the Children’s Mu-
seum and an active docents program was climaxed by a lively chil-
dren’s spring festival.

Plans have continued for the further restoration of the Renwick
Gallery, scheduled to open in 1971, which will be devoted to Ameri-
can design and crafts.

The International Art Program circulated a print workshop and
various exhibitions abroad, among the most interesting being “Disap-
pearance and Reappearance of the Image” shown in Romania, Czech-
oslovakia, and Belgium.

On the first of January, Assistant Director Robert Tyler Davis, who

had been Acting Director since 30 May 1969, turned over the direc-
tion of the NcFA to Joshua C. Taylor.
78 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1970

National Portrait Gallery

The year past was the first for the second Director at the National
Portrait Gallery. While much of the time during this period was spent
in the preparation of programs and the planning of events that will
not materialize until 1971, one major exhibition occurred this year and
110 portraits were added to the permanent collection.

The exhibition was “Augustus Saint-Gaudens: The Portrait Re-
liefs.” A full-scale catalog, designed by Leonard Baskin, reproducing
all reliefs from photographs made especially for this purpose by David
Batchelder and produced by the Meriden Gravure Company, was made
possible by a generous gift from Mr. and Mrs. John E. Marqusee of
New York. The catalog was subsequently issued in book form by Gross-
man Publishers. The exhibition was organized and the catalog written
by John Dryfhout, curator of the Saint Gaudens National Historic
Site in Cornish, New Hampshire.

Two other small exhibitions intended primarily for use in connec-
tion with the Gallery’s secondary school educational program were
held during the year. One was devoted to a portrait of the arctic ex-
plorer Elisha Kent Kane, and the other to Thomas Edison; each por-
trait was hung in a separate gallery surrounded by materials related
to the subject’s life and achievements.

Among the many important acquisitions of the year, several deserve
special mention. A magnificent life portrait of John Randolph of
Roanoke by John Wesley Jarvis was given by Mrs. G. B. Lambert, a
descendant of the artist; and a fine oil of General Horatio Gates by
James Peale (after Charles Willson Peale) was acquired by the Gal-
lery partly with its own funds and partly through a generous gift
from Mr. Lawrence Fleischman. Through the kind offices of a member
of the npc Commision, Wilmarth Sheldon Lewis, Gardner Cox pre-
sented the Gallery with his moving study of Robert F. Kennedy, as
well as two original sketches for the work, which were done from life
in February 1968. Other notable acquisitions included a portrait of
Daniel of Saint Thomas Jenifer by John Hesselius, acquired from a
descendant of the subject; a handsome version in marble of Giuseppi
Cerrachi’s portrait bust of George Washington in Roman garb; a
Sharples pastel of Alexander Hamilton; an oil of Bret Harte by John
Pettie, the best-known likeness of the author; a portrait of Mathew
Brady by Thomas LeClear, one of only two known oils of the master
American photographer; and Adolfo Muller-Ury’s pastel of Lillian
Russell, which was included in the Gallery’s opening exhibition.
HISTORY AND ART 79

Twenty-four acquisitions were transfers from the National Collec-
tion of Fine Arts through the generous cooperation of the Commission
and Director of that sister institution. These works included portraits
of President John Tyler by George P. A. Healy and of George Catlin
by William Fisk.

Life Study of Robert F. Kennedy, by Garner Cox, presented to the National
Portrait Gallery.
80 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1970

Joseph H. Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden

By its Act of 7 November 1966, Congress accepted the Joseph H.
Hirshhorn collection as a gift to the United States. Congress also ap-
proved a site on the Mall for the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture
Garden and provided statutory authority for the appropriation of con-
struction and operating funds.

In 1968 the 90th Congress provided contract authority and an
initial $2,000,000 for construction; in 1969, an additional $3,300,000
was appropriated. The ground-breaking ceremony, led by former
President Johnson was held on 8 January 1969. Construction com-
menced in 1970. The public opening of the Joseph H. Hirshhorn
Museum and Sculpture Garden is scheduled for 1972-1973.

The world-renowned sculptures in the Hirshhorn collection range
historically from antiquity to the present. The depth of representation
of major sculptors of the nineteenth and twentieth centuries is unique.
The paintings in the collection are primarily twentieth century. Be-
ginning with such precursors as Thomas Eakins and Winslow Homer,

Three Piece Reclining Figure No. 2: Bridge Prop, by Henry Moore.
HISTORY AND ART 81

the course of American painting is extensively covered. Complement-
ing the American section is a strong group of significant European
paintings of the past three decades.

For museum officials, scholars, students, and publishers, the Hirsh-
horn collection continues to be a major source of documentation in the
field of modern art. In 1970 the curatorial staff replied to 190 requests
for research information and photographs. More than one hundred
scholars, artists, and officials visited the Museum office and warehouse
in New York. The loan program is severely curtailed during the
present interim period; nonetheless, 65 paintings and sculptures were
loaned to 30 museums, galleries, and institutions. Approximately 2000
persons attended 23 benefit tours for educational, cultural, and phil-
anthropic organizations at the Hirshhorn Sculpture Garden in
Connecticut.

In 1970, the Hirshhorn Museum staff formulated plans for the selec-
tion and preparation of the paintings and sculpture for the opening
exhibition, as well as for the future programs of the Hirshhorn
Museum.

Cooper-Hewitt Museum of Decorative
Arts and Design

The Museum’s long history in the Cooper Union Building will soon
come to a close. A new home has been obtained for the Museum—the
historic Andrew Carnegie Mansion on 90th Street and Fifth Avenue.
The Mansion will provide five times more space than the present
location and allow for a great expansion of collections, programs, and
services. The staff has worked hard to make the Museum’s last year at
Cooper Union an interesting one, while at the same time planning for
the move to “Museum Row” on upper Fifth Avenue.

When the Cooper-Hewitt relocates this summer it will take along
1315 new objects acquisitioned in the past year. The most significant
of these are seventy-three drawings, watercolors, and oil sketches by
William Stanley Haseltine; twenty-nine theatre designs by Oliver
Smith; quilted bed cover of 18th-century Indian Chintz; 16th-century
Persian double cloth; 14th-century Peruvian tied and dyed net; exam-
ples of ikat from various parts of the world; wall hangings by Arthur
Crisp and Theo Moorman; six Lalique and two Daum vases; Bent-
92 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1970

wood console table by Michael Thonet; lacquered coffee table by Jean
Durand; two Louis XV armchairs and an 18th-century French settee;
collection of 18th- and 19th-century wallpapers, including one of the
earliest known examples of a labeled 18th-century American wall-
paper; and a Morris & Co. wallpaper sample book of 1890.

The Library acquired 418 new books, approximately half through
gifts. The most notable of these are 95 books on architecture and the
decorative arts presented by the Cooper Union Library and an im-
portant collection of books on wallpaper and textiles.

The special exhibitions presented in the past year include “Kabuki
Prints” ; “Contemporary Japanese Posters”; “A Stately Pleasure Dome:
The Royal Pavilion at Brighton”; “Light and Line: Etchings by
Rembrandt”; “Posters by E. McKnight Kauffer, 1890-1954”; “Con-
temporary Drawings by New York Artists” and the beautiful farewell
exhibition, “India Chintz,’ made possible through a grant from The
JDR 3rd Fund. Alice Baldwin Beer prepared Trade Goods: A Study
and Catalogue of Indian Chintz in the Cooper-Hewitt Museum of
Decorative Arts and Design, Smithsonian Institution to accompany the
exhibition.

“E. McKnight Kauffer Posters” from the collection were shown at
the 18M Gallery in New York and “Master Drawings: The Kingdom
of the Two Sicilies” at the Finch College Museum. Objects from the
Decorative Arts Department were displayed at five branches of the
East River Savings Bank in New York City. “Please Be Seated,’ an
exhibition of chairs throughout history is being circulated by the
American Federation of Arts following its opening in New York. A
total of 254 objects was loaned to institutions in this country and
abroad. Long-term loans of 129 additional objects were arranged with
the Fogg Art Museum at Harvard, the Brooklyn Museum, the Phila-
delphia Museum of Art, and museums of the Smithsonian Institution.

Mrs. Lisa Suter Taylor, former program director of the Smithsonian
Associates, was appointed Director in October, replacing Dr. Richard
Wunder, who is on sabbatical leave. Mr. Leo Arffman was engaged to
administer the capital development program.

The Cooper-Hewitt was visited by over 10,000 persons, of whom
1372 consulted curatorial departments or the library about specific
projects. Tours were given to twenty-two school groups and a twelve-
week adult education course was offered in conjunction with New
York University.

The architectural firm of Hardy, Holzman and Pfeiffer was com-
missioned to prepare a program plan for the relocation of the Muse-
HISTORY AND ART 83

um. During the renovation of the Mansion, major portions of the
collection will be shown at other museums. The staff and study collec-
tions will be housed in Miller House, a townhouse adjoining the
Carnegie Mansion. All available resources and energy will be directed

to the planning of a vital and meaningful new institution—a national

museum of design.

National Armed Forces Museum
Advisory Board

At the Advisory Board’s recommendation, a legislative proposal to
establish a national historical museum park to be designated Bicen-
tennial Park, has been forwarded to the Bureau of the Budget. Reflect-
ing President Eisenhower’s belief in the need for a national museum
devoted to the historic commitment of the American people to the
cause of freedom, the park will be a living outdoor museum, bringing
to present-day Americans a sense of the spirit that drove our forebears
to conceive a new nation within the majestic framework of the Decla-
ration of Independence.

At rural Fort Foote, in Prince George’s County, Maryland, Bicen-
tennial Park will enable visitors to see, hear, handle, smell, and taste
life as known by our 18th-century ancestors. With emphasis focused on
the Revolutionary War citizen-soldier—his background, his motives,
and the labor, sacrifice and self-reliance demanded in the struggle to
bring forth the first modern republic—Bicentennial Park will be
essentially an animated museum, portraying the daily camp duties
while craftsmen demonstrate their trades in the tailor and shoemaker
shops and at the smithy and armory. The rumble of wagons, the clank
of forge, odors of woodsmoke and picket line, the heft of tools and
weapons, muted shades of coarse homespun and flashing colors of
silken standards, all will envelop the visitor in the long-vanished world
of young America.

Colorful reviews to a Continental “band of musick” will be held on
the parade ground, along with such other activities as folk dancing,
pageants, and theatricals—all reflecting the customs and traditions of
our Revolutionary forebears, black and white, townsmen, farmers,
backwoodsmen, seafarers, artisans, merchants, and professional men.
84 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1970

Woodrow Wilson International Center
for Scholars

During fiscal year 1970 the Woodrow Wilson International Center
for Scholars, created by the Congress in October 1968 to be a living
memorial “expressing the ideals and concerns of Woodrow Wilson ...
symbolizing and strengthening the fruitful relation between the world
of learning and the world of public affairs” did work preparatory to
opening its doors in October of 1970.

After some months of study, the presidential mixed private-public
Board of Trustees headed by former Vice President Hubert H. Hum-
phrey, approved at its fall meeting the opening of new fellowship and
guest-scholar programs in prime space that has been offered to the
Center in the newly renovated Smithsonian Institution Building. The
theme of the fellowship program is designed to accentuate those
aspects of Wilson’s ideals and concerns for which he is perhaps best
remembered a half century after his presidency: his search for interna-
tional peace and the imaginative new governmental approaches he
used to meet pressing issues of his day. In the opening period the
Board plans to stimulate particularly substantial studies on (1) the
development of international understanding, law, and cooperation in
ocean space; and (2) man’s relations with and his response to his
deteriorating environment, with special attention to the new forms
of international cooperation needed to address effectively those envi-
ronmental problems that transcend boundaries.

When the program is fully operational, up to forty distinguished
scholars—approximately half from the United States and half from
other countries—will be selected to work and study for periods ranging
from a few weeks to several years. They will be chosen—again in
approximately equal geographic measure—from many traditional
academic disciplines and from a variety of nonacademic occupations
and professions such as government, law, business, labor, and
journalism.

During the past fiscal year, Director Benjamin H. Read and a small
staff prepared to Jaunch the program, determining policies, publiciz-
ing and getting support for the program, recruiting and selecting the
first fellowship recipients, initiating a private fund-raising campaign,
and working in other ways to breathe life into this newest of presiden-
tial memorial institutions.
HISTORY AND ART 85

Office of American Studies

The Office of American Studies conducts a formal graduate program
which is directed to the original Smithsonian purpose: “the increase
and diffusion of knowledge among men.” During the past year, thirty
graduate students from five universities participated in the Program,
gaining academic credit toward advanced degrees at those universities.
Three courses were offered by the American Studies staff during the
year. The introductory seminar, “Material Aspects of American Civil-
zation,’ this year examined American culture as it has been self-
consciously displayed at world’s fairs and international expositions. A
two-semester seminar, “The Physical City: Approaches to American
Urban History,” taught in conjunction with a visiting urban historian,
Dana F. White, offered students an opportunity to study the American
city as a physical artifact. During the spring semester, students
enrolled in a seminar on “Material Aspects of Cultural History” un-
dertook an archeological excavation on Theodore Roosevelt Island in

Graduate student Joanne Baker studying the gravestones of a church yard in
New Hampshire under the sponsorship of the George Washington University-
Smithsonian program in American Studies.
86 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1970

the Potomac in conjunction with members of the staff of the National
Museum of History and Technology. In addition to the formal courses
listed above, a number of students in the program carried on individ-
ual research and study under the direction of members of the Smith-
sonian’s curatorial staff. Studies pursued included industrial and
historical archeology, the history of photography, and the material
culture of the period of the American Revolution.

While conducting a program of graduate education, staff members
of the Office of American Studies continued research in several areas,
such as 19th-century politics as revealed by an analysis of symbols and
mottoes on hand-painted campaign banners; a biographical dictionary
of American civil engineers; technology, architecture, and urbaniza-
tion; early exploration; the history of cartography; and Indian-White
relations. The political banners project was outlined in a paper by
Wilcomb E. Washburn at the annual meeting of the Organization of
American Historians in April 1970. In January 1970, Harold Skram-
stad presented a paper discussing “The Engineer as Architect” at the
annual meeting of the Society of Architectural Historians. Several
papers by the staff, based on earlier research, were published during
the year.

The Joseph Henry Papers

In 1970 the Henry Papers received an enormous influx of microfilm
and xerox copies of documents and was able to add more than 4000 of
these to its computer-control system. Most of these documents were
from Henry’s Princeton years, 1833-1846, and the early days of the
Smithsonian Institution, 1847-1852.

At the same time, the staff was engaged in the necessary prelimi-
naries for preparing the first volume of a major documentary publica-
tion. By far the most laborious (and most elementary) activity was a
careful review of documents from Henry’s Albany period, 1792-1832,
to winnow chaff. Documents surviving this review are being edited for
textual accuracy and their contents researched to provide meaningful
annotations for readers. The first volume will not only depict a young
man developing into a significant scientist but will also provide a
documentary précis of the social and intellectual setting for this
development.
HISTORY AND ART 87

Albany in Henry’s day was a lively provincial center, not too much
different from similar localities in the United States. By focusing
intensely on one man’s rise, the Henry Papers will illuminate some of
the factors in his immediate environment and the society at large
affecting our nation’s development.
‘ pe Salas band Ta ae

Hg Agreteep denne yen, abba, 34 7 en i

| day val ht genes al bet Khia sirheny are Ke

(dor Aivhire sy, ts iareati Abd ye: urea ' welt ra) peat ome Upp e
voy eid vio B i Axton doteita a eelperemh y Binal comiialial a

hy

(pane é i} va A Oe or’ , ijary sain

velit sia tae BAA et i) Tak: é
; , ge fe e*
Whadkee/ eyiiiaed f | a eT rats u
j - ,
it ee Vs ay ; si tH 7
' ) 1 Sao
nerd) " ey i | eae

9?
wo
’ '
\ ’ =
S
’ \i 4
7 H Ls ] iy ‘j
, ( ' : < im
} rye) uy re v pel ia
iF
hs i of i " eei'} ae -~
= i,
Le a> j ‘aedlg
/
1 nie i : : 4 ¢ 4 eae
y iene { io SF iy Aol one j
CW, Ppi>eiee 7 7) {
‘San Oia
~~ S pee i] &) > 2? 4 4) ‘
; * wae Pl ee ic
a , yi Pei 9 Weel a) eb taerre wie allt

i ; ) = pias al antes OL a
SPECIAL MUSEUM PROGRAMS
v4 , f A. 3

sR Np aaisin 1419

may.
re a

4
HROUGH THE YEAR’S WORK there ran a strong current of service

to the community of interests and objectives of the world’s
museums. The preservation of every nation’s heritage and the desire
to engage museums in action roles in education, cultural development,
and the enhancement of the quality of life have become increasingly
the common interests of museum professionals everywhere. The Smith-
sonian has directly and indirectly aided the Department of State,
uNnEsco, and the International Council of Museums to press on
with efforts to rally museum action to suppress unethical practices in
acquiring objects of art, antiquities, and cultural history. Wider cir-
culation was given to codes of acceptable conduct of scientific and
archeological expeditions respecting the natural and cultural resources
of host countries and the encouragement of cooperation with counter-
part scholars and institutions. The General Counsel continued to
guide the legislation, now enacted, to authorize the adherence of the
United States to the International Centre for the Preservation and the
Restoration of Cultural Property (the Rome center).

Assistance was given to the efforts of the American Association of
Museums and the United States National Committee of the Interna-
tional Council of Museums to coordinate their interests in the world
community of museums and to improve communications between mu-
seum professionals everywhere. Advice and guidance have been pro-
vided to the director of the recently established World Museum
Fund designed to encourage international support of museum purposes.

Foreign museum professionals and cultural and scientific personnel
in large numbers continued to consult with colleagues at the Smithson-
ian. They came for advice in establishing national programs of mu-
seum-based sciences, as well as to consult with the personnel of con-
servation and exhibits laboratories, the Registrar, and many others on
museum functions, techniques, and administration. Some of this
appears in the reports that follow. The Conservation Analytical Lab-
oratory, for example, provided consultation and demonstrations to
more than thirty foreign colleagues who came from Italy, Pakistan,
Jordan, Germany, Nigeria, Guinea, India, Mexico, Belgium, Ja-
maica, Venezuela, England, Iran, Taiwan, Canada, and elsewhere.

91
9? SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1970

Office of the Director General of Museums

The past year has seen an intensifying of the need of museums and
their professional organizations to improve and carry out programs
which, in the words of the National Museum Act, are “necessary to
insure that museum resources for preserving and interpreting the na-
tion’s heritage may be more fully utilized in the enrichment of public
life in the individual community.” Cooperation with museums in
America and abroad, continued emphasis upon museum training and
exhibit effectiveness, and an increased concern for the world commu-
nity of museums have characterized the activities of the Office of the
Director General.

The Director General, under the authority of the Museum Act, has
responded to an ever-increasing number of requests for technical assis-
tance and advice from museums in this country and overseas. Re-
sponse under the act has varied from consultant activities to support
of international symposiums, as well as to the direct assistance of mu-
seum programs with national implication such as the American Asso-
ciation of Museums’ study of museum accreditation. Under the general
provisions of the act, members of the Smithsonian’s scientific and
curatorial staff have aided the Oakland Museum, California; the Buf-
falo Museum of Science, New York; the New York State Museum at
Albany, and such nascent institutions as the Virginia Museum of
Science.

Essential to providing adequate information and advice has been
the continuing accumulation of data pertinent to museums and their
missions. The Director General has cooperated with the American
Association of Museums and the United States Department of Educa-
tion in gathering and refining statistical data relating to museums.
Within the Smithsonian, interviewing of visitors to the National Mu-
seum of History and Technology and the National Museum of Natural
History for the year-long Smithsonian visitor survey was completed in
October. Volunteer interviewers have questioned more than 5000
visitors and the Smithsonian’s Information Systems Division has com-
pleted card-punching of their responses. Programmed use of this data
will permit an analysis of our visitors and their experiences at the
Smithsonian.

Training has continued as an important adjunct of the National
Museum Act. Over 1600 persons from both domestic and foreign
institutions have received advice on exhibition techniques and in the
general principles of museum management. Cooperation with the Art
Department of Fisk University, Nashville, Tennessee, resulted in a
SPECIAL MUSEUM PROGRAMS 93

student planned and supervised exhibition on the black ghetto, first
shown at the National Museum of History and Technology in August
of 1969. At another level of involvement, the Office of the Director
General, in concert with the Office of Academic Programs conducted
a symposium: “Opportunities for Extending Museum Contributions
to Pre-College Science Education.” Supported by the National Science
Foundation, forty-five invited participants met at the Belmont Con-
ference Center 26-27 January 1970. The proceedings of the symposium
will be published in book form.

Internally, the Director General has chaired an _Institution-wide
committee charged by the Secretary with the responsibility of review
and study of the future of exhibits at the Smithsonian. The committee
has completed its finding and has prepared its final report and recom-
mendations.

In October, Mr. Taylor and Mr. Welsh attended a meeting of the
1coM International Committee for Museums of Science.and Tech-
nology which was held in India, principally at Bangalore. The purpose
of the meeting was to plan a laboratory with a capability to produce
basic science exhibits designed to meet the specific needs of individual,
developing countries. It is anticipated that a laboratory will be
founded in India at Bangalore and that it will become a depository of
experience, a center of training, and a useful example of international
cooperation among museums. This meeting was the culmination of
several years’ effort and planning by the Director General of Museums
based on the belief that science-teaching exhibits, carefully prepared
and tested, can help bridge the science lag between developed and de-
veloping countries.

The Director General of Museums has furthered the concept and
utilization of the Arts and Industries Building as an Exposition Hall.
The Exposition Hall programs provided a setting for two exhibitions
on urban themes, “Urban Transit: Problem and Promise” and “Urban
Design: Manhattan,’ and an opportunity for the general public to
hear Rai Y. Okamoto, city planner-architect, lecture on urban transit
and its impact. Industrial design students from several major schools
presented in the “New Concepts for Leisure” exhibition their solutions
to diminishing leisure resources and increasing leisure time.

Support from industry made possible the expansion of the traveling
“Plastic as Plastic” exhibition. It demonstrated the historical develop-
ment of plastic in America and emphasized the future of plastics when
shaped by the hands of innovative designers and technicians. An ex-
perimental space enclosure of urethane foam sprayed on stretched cot-
ton jersey fabric, early plastic objects from the Smithsonian collections,
the first all-plastic airplane, an experimental automobile with plastic
94 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1970

body, an operating injection-molding machine, and “instant vacation
home” were high points of the exhibition.

Significant progress was made this year in coordinating and plan-
ning the Smithsonian’s role in the celebration of the Bicentennial of
the American Revolution. This was accomplished by Mr. John J.
Slocum, special assistant for Bicentennial planning, whose completed
study, with estimates of the various Smithsonian elements expected to
participate in the Bicentennial, has been forwarded to the Secretary of
the Institution. Mr. Slocum continued to serve as a liaison officer be-
tween the Smithsonian, the American Revolution Bicentennial Com-
mission, other government agencies, and private organizations.

Office of Exhibits Programs

The Office of Exhibits Programs collaborates in the production of
exhibits originating in the curatorial, scientific, academic, and public
service programs of the Smithsonian. More than 225 individual proj-
ects were worked on during the year including sixty temporary exhib-
its and upgrading and maintenance in nearly every gallery of the Na-
tional Museum of History and Technology, the National Museum of
Natural History, and the National Air and Space Museum. The exhi-
bitions produced are described in part in the reports of the divisions
and museums in which they originated and are listed in Appendix 8.

The “Laser 10” exhibition was designed and produced by this Office
with the essential assistance of a group of distinguished laser scient-
ists from universities and industry. The scientists planned the exhibi-
tion and assisted in the acquisition of laser instruments and demon-
strations. This exhibit, visited by about 750,000 people in the period
January to June, will remain until the fall of 1970.

The instruction of museum personnel in museum exhibition prac-
tices and techniques continued. A total of twenty-nine persons from ten
states and ten foreign countries received instruction during the year.

Conservation-Analytical Laboratory

Detailed advice on good environments for the preservation of mu-
seum objects and on acceptable methods of cleaning and preserving
SPECIAL MUSEUM PROGRAMS 95

them have been provided to many museums and to the public. Docu-
ments and objects made of such various materials as wood, leather, and
metal—that have been damaged, were in need of cleaning, or subject
to active corrosion or decay—have been repaired and stabilized for each
of the various Smithsonian bureaus.

Two conservators were added to the staff. A visiting research associ-
ate spent an academic year studying methods and materials applicable
to plain and painted African wooden cult objects for use in tropical
areas.

One of the staff has worked briefly at Florence, Italy, on flood-
damaged books and documents. Practical emergency assistance has
been given to a museum damaged by hurricane Camille. Trainees
from the Pacific area have been instructed at Honolulu in conservation
methods. A second series of twenty weekly lectures for Smithsonian
staff attracted up to fifty-six attendees at some sessions.

Innumerable facilities and services were provided to Smithsonian
Museums. Analytical facilities were applied to more than sixty re-
quests from six bureaus. Sensitive neutron-activation analysis is being
applied to characterize American ceramics and also to medieval glass
from the collections, and a method of precise analysis by X-ray fluores-
cence has been developed for museum objects that promises to be of
universal application with a minimum of synthetic standards. A com-
puter terminal was installed to facilitate calculations. Emission spec-
trography and X-ray diffraction also served to analyze such diverse
objects as moon rock, earth minerals, Chinese bronzes, and religious
medals.

Office of the Registrar

In addition to the important function of receiving and recording
specimens and objects into the museums’ collections, the Office of the
Registrar provides services that support the Smithsonian’s research,
education, collection management, and exhibition programs. For all
bureaus of the Smithsonian, these are the shipping operation, the
customs work, central mail activity, travel documents for official
foreign travel, as well as the receipt and control of public inquiries and
official correspondence for the museums.

More than two million pieces of mail were handled, with the Smith-
sonian Associates and the Smithsonian (magazine) generating large
96 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1970

volumes. Among public inquiries, ecology and man’s environment
captured the interests ranging from that of the youngest school child
to the older citizens as evidenced by letters received.

Shipping activities covered the usual wide diversity of objects, such
as the 30,000-year-old man from Spain, 47,000 pounds of records from
Detroit for the Archives of American Art, the Napoleon diamond
necklace sent as a loan to the Palais du Louvre, and a man-eating
crocodile from the Caroline Islands.

Official travel by staff members and foreign currency grantees ex-
tended to all parts of the world, including Vietnam, Cambodia,
Australia, New Guinea, and Iceland. The Office of the Registrar
obtained 204 passports and 275 visas for 250 travelers.

Smithsonian Institution Traveling
Exhibition Service

During this past fiscal year exhibitions of the Smithsonian Insti-
tuition Traveling Exhibition Service (sires) were shown in all of the
United States with the exceptions of Alaska and Hawai. Seven hun-
dred bookings were viewed by an estimated four to five million people.
Institutions in several Canadian cities also exhibited sires shows.
Smithsonian museums showed eleven of them.

“Contemporary American Black Artists” organized by the National
Association for the Advancement of Colored People and the Lee
Nordess Galleries, and ‘““The Art of Henry O. Tanner’ jointly orga-
nized by the Museum of African Art and the National Collection of
Fine Arts were added to the siTEs program this year.

It is encouraging to report a substantial increase in the number of
traveling exhibitions organized during the past year by Smithsonian
units. Two versions of “The Douglass Years” are being circulated in
cooperation with the Anacostia Neighborhood Museum. The following
exhibits originated in the Smithsonian, contain material from Smith-
sonian collections, or were planned and produced by Smithsonian pro-
grams: “Jean Louis Berlandier,” “Photography and The City,” “John
Wesley Powell: The Indomitable Major,” “Werner Drewes Wood-
cuts,” “The People’s Choice,” “The Malay Archipelago,’ and “A
Heritage in Peril—Alaska’s Vanishing Totems.” Modest progress was
made toward a broader program of traveling exhibitions and the ex-
tension of Smithsonian resources to other parts of the United States.
SPECIAL MUSEUM PROGRAMS 97

The Service continues to receive letters of thanks from staff and trus-
tees of museums using the Service, frequently accompanied by press
notices of the interest stimulated in their communities by traveling
exhibits.

This year has been a critical one financially. Srres has been caught
in the squeeze between higher operating costs and lower revenues.
Salaries and other expenses are rising while museums generally are
suffering from inadequate support. Many museums cannot now afford
the larger shows and this has reduced the income of sires dispropor-
tionately. Sires is supported by fees received for its services so it has
had to reduce its operations somewhat to work within its income.

The number of exhibitions in the program has been reduced ten
percent and the staff by about the same percentage. In making these
cutbacks, 42 exhibitions have been dispersed, 32 new ones initiated,
and 67 continued from prior years. Of the new shows initiated this
year, twelve are from other countries. Eighteen of those continued
from last year are also from abroad.
aa yin Serva 6 San is, set

a ve , - ;

7 i] ' i" 7 : N Wy

‘ Ph 7 DR oe ae on +23 an
ON
F ad : f iN oe. ‘ i ’ rl

ian badd ialsthh bali sleadanvin oa er
oecp ip ned RreartneITR bdedecig vet ae heart hi dl oyasdaany iter
pialavaptend i nes toate Wakialt «el haart veerinie ate coreny eel
ei any yun Hie + Dseritp Ce
nlite y priv eh ura, ALA Ac vn Law) oh eapeell, Oat
Cnt ses toyed ba, se tui iperdty roc) seer ed te
wait wile) oh a) fs uli bens LOThWig ed Thame eee vonllfin
jr PR er ptimeur yaad, fexypyut tay yell
OEE ENTIG. Dip opaigy Lay pony lt aud ae Le A Ke
ALT Or eohe one, Tat Uae et ge el ye seeata yes ene file z
Ladi ee ebidita iinet. ee ri Laie sr oniaaty ayy ait
PLA, Goer, Bibi». 1ghas eT if eek af AAW to. tm eine
et) Ruiter ul Aeiret seme Ol) tear | Waa nifiul
APOTEOTI NG eat u E Lueenacieils (een i pitti

ote Testa weren's whi 1h) ty ww) W } [weeli
: vari '
eeeaurfirteny’s fw) tJ rai pal i MPEP AST), ’ Lyle abet tay

att da ih) Olt ad Oey

' Betta _

bu) j
']
j \
ars i
1 i ¢
bd day F '
. : . me
_ j ( l
et he i ' , ’ :
aad ifs , | ’ \ hy aan || ¥
fv pif 112A Lin 18108 OTR
¥ , 4 yy @) -
a tm mi oe ae
se vera (ace! ce a
a . in eek Oat, 1 ead ae 5 are h
=r af aT So ee,
. | ane 1 cee 1s pa
‘ { ya ee | SE ale <a J
as & f , ae » & +H 'e@) ‘Wy uh,

i é pies, § i veg Ae

i ieTle~w i wae Viaus ig “feta ” Mie
rial RWC & olay Sabee ey WPS vmif
Te ee Le ae
PUBLIC SERVICE AND
INFORMATION ACTIVITIES
-

The worth and importance of the Institution are not to be estimated by what it
accumulates within the walls of its buildings, but by what it sends forth to the
world.
SECRETARY JOSEPH HENRY
Smithsonian Annual Report, 1852

The Institution’s diverse public service activities all have the one
common purpose so well expressed in Secretary Henry’s vision. They
range from the traditional one-page Monthly Calendar of Events to
the newly established Smithsonian magazine, or from a small work-
shop class in enameling to an international conference on arid-land
ecology.

In April of 1970 the Smithsonian took a significant step forward in
sending forth its storehouse of knowledge to the world with the pub-
lication of the monthly Smithsonian magazine. Essentially popular in
character, the magazine was originally conceived as a means of extend-
ing the Smithsonian Associates from a local or Washington-based
membership group to a nationwide audience. With the publication of
the first issue, therefore, the Smithsonian Associates established both
resident and national membership categories. Resident members con-
tinued to receive a varied program of lecture courses, workshops, and
guided tours, as well as an option to subscribe to the magazine at a
reduced rate. National members received the Smithsonian and cer-
tain other benefits, such as a reception center, located in the Great
Hall of the Smithsonian Building, to help plan their visits to Washing-
ton; the opportunity to participate in both domestic and international
study tours; and discounts on Museum Shop articles and Smithsonian
Institution Press publications.

The magazine, ably headed by Edward K. Thompson, former man-
aging editor of Life, and a small editorial staff of seven, reached a
circulation of 180,000 by its fourth issue. It was thus favored by what
many professionals call the most successful start in the recent history
of magazine publishing. Smithsonian’s principal theme is “man: his
environment, sciences, arts, adventures, follies, fortunes.” Each issue,
therefore, carries at least one major article on man’s problems with
his environment, in both humanistic and scientific terms. Within this
environmental context, the magazine seeks to portray and interpret
Smithsonian interests in science, art, and cultural history.

Other major efforts in carrying the Smithsonian Institution beyond

101
102 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1970

its own walls centered around the medium of television, both public
and commercial. In April the Institution received a generous grant
from the Corporation for Public Broadcasting to produce a general
documentary on the Smithsonian’s various museums and scientific
bureaus for National Educational Television. The film will be adapted
later for continual showings within the Smithsonian for visitor orien-
tation. It thus will fill a long felt need for improved guidance of the
Institution’s visitors. In June the Institution entered into an agree-
ment with the Columbia Broadcasting System for a series of documen-
taries, principally based on the Smithsonian’s overseas scientific expe-
ditions. It is expected that this agreement will provide for the first
time the instrumentality for popular interpretation of the Institution’s
scientific missions to the significant number of listeners attracted by
the evening or prime-time broadcasts of a major network.

Other signal achievements in the work of carrying the Smithson-
ian’s interests beyond its own walls included a new program of urban
problem identification at the Anacostia Neighborhood Museum, sup-
ported by a Carnegie Corporation grant; Office of International Ac-
tivities participation in a Mekong Basin study team, designed to assess
the ecological effects of present and proposed hydroelectrical projects
on the Mekong River; and an Information Systems Division bulletin
published especially for the museum community, showing how auto-
matic data processing can best be applied to museum collections.

Smithsonian Associates

In its fourth year, the Smithsonian Associates continued to create
numerous opportunities for both its members and the general public to
participate in the life of the Smithsonian Institution. More than
40,000 adults and young people were involved in a broad variety of
activities, ranging from special events such as the opening of the exhi-
bition “Laser 10,” Zoo night, and the Folk Festival Preview to in-depth
classes taught primarily by Smithsonian scholars in fields of Smithson-
ian interest.

Programs for members only, more than half of which were without
charge, totaled some 121 separate events, many of which were repeated
by popular demand. Events also open to the public totaled another
111. These activities included lecture courses in history, science, and
the humanities; films, field trips (both outdoors and behind-the-scenes
PUBLIC SERVICE AND INFORMATION ACTIVITIES 103

‘eererre:

i

Bs. ces

eS
.-

.

A young Associate works at shaping down his own boomerang in preparation
for learning to throw it. Nearly 200 people attended the Boomerang Workshops
under the direction of Benjamin Ruhe, Smithsonian Office of Public Affairs.
(Photograph by Robert de Gast, Smithsonian Magazine. )
104 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1970

in the National Museums of History and Technology and Natural
History), exhibit openings, an exploration into conservation of art
objects at the National Collection of Fine Arts, the ever-popular
annual Kite Carnival, a new and well-received workshop on boomer-
ang making and throwing, and numerous concerts and theatrical pro-
ductions, ranging from a play on drug addiction presented by student
members of the Daytop rehabilitation program of New York to a
concert by leading experimenters with the Moag synthesizer and other
electronic instruments. In addition, young people and adults studied in
some 93 classes and craft workshops.

Emphasis was on doing—on learning and growing and “becoming
involved.” Some discussed ecological problems at an Encounter series
while others studied natural history on a schooner cruise off the coast
of Maine, explored archeology at the luncheon series, dug fossils at
Calvert Cliffs, hunted mushrooms in Maryland, and considered the
past through art-history tours in nearby states. As varied and extensive
as these activities have been, they mark only the beginning of the
Associates’ adventure in discovery.

A major event in the history of the Associates occurred in April
with the publication of the first issue of the Smithsonian magazine.
A list of the Smithsonian Associates membership gifts is in Appendix 3.

Office of Public Affairs

The Office of Public Affairs (opA) in the past year broadened its
programs of communication with visitors and the public at large. A
full-time visitor-information desk service was inaugurated in coopera-
tion with the Smithsonian Associates. The Smithsonian Motion Pic-
ture Group undertook three productions: a public television program
about Institution activities under a grant from the Corporation for
Public Broadcasting, a film about museums in modern life, and a con-
temporary study of libraries with the American Library Association. A
half-hour television show, “Smithsonian,” was produced with the
American University Broadcast Center and wrc-tv. Broadcasters fo-
cused increased attention on the Smithsonian, and numerous projects
from modern art to space flight were carried out with opa aid. Radio
Smithsonian, a program series of music and conversation, was carried
regularly by stations in Washington, D.C., and New York City and
distributed nationally and overseas. A publications branch was estab-
PUBLIC SERVICE AND INFORMATION ACTIVITIES 105

lished to initiate and distribute a wide range of printed materials—
including information leaflets, building guides, and foreign-language
material. The News Bureau, charged with communicating day-to-day
developments to news media, prepared a series of “news-features” that
were widely reprinted. The Smithsonian Film Theatre presented 37
weekly programs in art, science, and history attended by more than
25,000 persons. An educational radio internship program was estab-
lished with American University, and the opa also sponsored the third
annual day of staff briefings for student science writers.

Office of International Activities

Office activities were concentrated on the environmental conse-
quences of development, with the Director leading a team of scientists
to the Mekong Basin to assess the ecological effects of present and
proposed hydroelectrical projects there. He also served on the National
Academy of Sciences committee to study the biological consequences of
a sea-level canal in Panama.

The Office assisted Smithsonian scientists in planning research
abroad and briefed American diplomats going overseas and foreign
visitors to the Institution on its international programs. Museum
training for three Africans was arranged, a symposium on Smithsonian
projects in Ceylon was successfully carried out and two Smithsonian
staff members were sent to Iran as consultants under the Iran-United
States Science Agreement, the first such international agreement in
which the Smithsonian has been designated as the program-directing
agency. Staff members visited more than twelve nations to arrange
new cooperative programs.

Closing its fifth year, the Foreign Currency Program had awarded
more than $10,000,000 in “excess” foreign currency grants to over fifty
American institutions of higher learning, of which $3,500,000 was
awarded this year alone. Grants included more than the equivalent of
five million dollars for work in archeology and related disciplines;
over three and one half million in systematic and environmental
biology; more than $400,000 in astrophysics and earth sciences; and
nearly $150,000 in the newly authorized category of Museum
programs.

Program accomplishments over the five-year period include some
90 research publications, 150 postdoctoral research opportunities for
106 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1970

Americans, 110 field-training opportunities for doctoral candidates,
and research collections for the Smithsonian and many of the Ameri-
can grantee institutions. The bi-national collaborative research pattern
fostered by the program contributed in a similar beneficial way to 200
foreign host institutions.

A list of the grants awarded in fiscal year 1970 is included in
Appendix 1.

Division of Performing Arts

The Division of Performing Arts continued to enliven and enrich
the experience of museum visitors with a variety of programs and
projects. “Perceptions II,’ a series of contemporary forms in perform-
ing arts, now in its second year, highlighted the world premiers of two
musical works. One of them, “Misfortunes of the Immortals” by Mor-
ton Subotnick, has been added to the permanent repertoire of the
Dorian Woodwind Quintet. The series also included two powerful and
timely dramatic works: “The Concept,” dealing with the endeavors of
former drug addicts to reenter society; and ‘‘Neighbors,” a rock musical
based on the Spoon River Anthology. “Perceptions” is presented in
cooperation with the Smithsonian Associates.

The third annual Festival of American Folklife was again the most
popular single event on the Mall. More than half a million visitors
were once again reminded of their own cultural roots by the exhibits
of crafts and cooking and performances of music and dance. A special
section was devoted to the craft and music of the State of Pennsylvania.

The Touring Performances Service, in the second year, sponsored a
wide range of American performing artists and lecturers at cultural
and educational institutions across the country. The American Folklife
Company, The Black Experience, the touring Smithsonian Puppet
Theatre, The Jelly Roll Memorial Band, The Concept, and other
programs disseminated the experience and success of the Smithsonian
in the field of performing arts.

The Resident Puppet Theater, an exceedingly popular informative
entertainment for children, continued during 1970 with three new
shows in expanded facilities. One hundred and forty colleges and uni-
versities submitted their productions to the American College Theatre
Festival, and the ten best were then restaged in Washington, D.C., to
PUBLIC SERVICE AND INFORMATION ACTIVITIES 107

general critical acclaim. The Division also presented programs in
cooperation with other organizations: A series of concerts was offered
monthly with the Left Bank Jazz Society, and chamber music concerts
with the Washington Performing Arts Society, as well as an evening
of Brazilian folk music with the the Brazilian Embassy, among others.

Smithsonian Museum Shops

The Smithsonian Museum Shops installations in all museums were
completed during the last year. Special efforts were made to expand
the role of the book stores of the Museum Shops.

Facilities for publications were increased in the Shops of the Arts
and Industries Building (Aa1) and the National Museum of History
and Technology (NMuT). A special sales area for the “‘Contributions
to the Museum of History and Technology” was installed at NmuT and
all Shops offered specially selected publications focused on the special
exhibits of each museum.

The Museum Shops once more participated in the Folklife Festival
on the Mall in July of 1969 offering items of traditional American
crafts. The Second Annual Aerospace Modeling Exhibit was held in
the shop of the Arts and Industries Building sponsored by the National
Air and Space Museum and the Museum Shops, which included a
weekend launching competition on the Mall of model rocket and flight
craft.

The sales exhibitions program of the Museum Shops was high-
lighted with the introduction of a new series of exhibitions honoring
the crafts and craftsmen of the United States in February when the
works of thirty-four distinguished craftsmen from Montana were
shown in the Museum Shop in agar. Other special sales exhibitions
offered the public an opportunity to select crafts from Pakistan and
Chile; flat-woven rugs from Greece, Iran, and Turkey; wooden circus
toys made by William Accorsi; and animals in iron sculpture by

Orvello Wood.

Belmont Conference Center

The Belmont Conference Center, now in its fourth year of full oper-
ation, continues to grow and to find itself scheduling conferences at an
108 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1970

ever-increasing rate. At the present time, groups are reserving the
Center as far as a year in advance. During the past year, fifty-eight
conferences met at Belmont, sponsored by thirty-three agencies (gov-
ernmental as well as public and private organizations) .

Smithsonian groups holding conferences at Belmont have included
the Smithsonian Council, Interdisciplinary Communications Program,
Office of Academic Programs, Program for Postdoctoral Fellows in
Education Research, and the Office of International Activities. The
Center has been host to groups as diversified as the National Urban
Coalition and the Senate Public Works Committee, while guests have
included Nobel Prize winner Dr. Murray Gell-Mann; Dr. John Clark,
Director of Goddard Space Flight Center; Dr. Robert Marston, Direc-
tor of National Institutes of Health; Mr. Robert Mayo, Counsellor to
the President; Mr. Elmer Staats, Comptroller General; Dr. John
Gardner, Chairman, National Urban Coalition; and Commissioner
Nicholas Johnson of the Federal Communications Commission, to
name a few of the more than 1,000 persons who have been welcomed
to Belmont this past year.

The Center accommodates twenty-four resident guests with facilities
for meetings and meals for thirty people. The completion of a new
roof, as well as extensive repairs to the main house and other build-
ings, has made Belmont more comfortable and attractive.

Conference operations continue to be directed toward the needs of
small groups which require the kind of attractive and secluded setting
which Belmont provides, together with the advantages of easy access to
Washington’s National and Baltimore’s Friendship airports.

Anacostia Neighborhood Museum

Highlights in the Anacostia Neighborhood Museum’s 1970 pro-
grams included the exhibit “The Rat: Man’s Invited Affliction,’ which
focused on the environmental problem of rat infestation and how to
deal with it. A simulated backyard was especially constructed so that
the viewer could see how live rats live and breed. This exhibit received
nationwide attention when it was filmed for the asc television pro-
gram “Discovery.” A portion of the exhibit was shown at the Buffalo
Museum of Science under the cosponsorship of that museum and the
Buffalo County Health Department. The impact of “The Rat” rein-
forced the conviction that the Anacostia Neighborhood Museum
PUBLIC SERVICE AND INFORMATION ACTIVITIES 109

should be a mechanism for change in the inner city. A proposal was
submitted, and in May of this year, the Carnegie Corporation granted
the Museum $100,000 ‘“‘to enable the staff to work with neighborhood
groups in analyzing urban problems and their effect on the neighbor-
hood and to make information and educational materials on these
issues available to schools, museums, and other local and national
groups.”

In cooperation with the sires, the Museum’s exhibit on Frederick
Douglass and his influence on Afro-American history, “The Douglass
Years,” has been shown at various museums throughout the country.

During the major part of the school year, over 23,000 children and
teenagers visited the Museum on guided school tours. Films and var-
ious programs of educational and popular interest were presented with
each new exhibit. The Mobile Division reached approximately 6600
students during visits to area schools with a condensed version of “The
Douglass Years.”

Special exhibit “The Rat: Man’s Invited Affliction” at the Anacostia Neighbor-
hood Museum, focused on the environmental problem of rat infestation and how
to deal with it.
110 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1970

Smithsonian

The Smithsonian magazine, born of the Institution’s desire to extend
the Smithsonian Associates into a nationwide membership organization,
published its first issue in April of 1970. It soon achieved a circulation
of 180,000.

The editorial office, located in the Arts and Industries Building, is
headed by Edward K. Thompson. Before coming to Washington, Mr.
Thompson served for ten years as managing editor of Life magazine,
after which he became editor of all Life publications. In this capacity
he was largely responsible for launching a well-known Life books
program.

With Mr. Thompson on the Board of Editors of Smithsonian are
Ralph T. Backlund, formerly associate and managing editor of Horizon
magazine; R. Hobart Ellis, who has served as editor of various scientific
publications, including Nucleonics, Nuclear Fusion, and Physics Today;
Edward Parks, formerly editor of several magazines in Australia and
associate director of the National Geographic’s book department; and
Mrs. Grayce P. Northcross, who has done research and reporting for
Time, Life, and the United States Information Agency’s America.

The magazine’s advertising, circulation, and promotion offices are in
New York City. Heading the New York office is advertising director
Thomas H. Black, formerly sales executive with J. Walter Thompson,
asc, Life, and Time; assisted by general manager Joseph J. Bonsig-
nore, previously head of editorial production for Life, Fortune, Time,
and Sports Illustrated; and circulation-promotion director Anne Keat-
ing, formerly advertising and promotion director of Natural History.

Early articles to attract national attention concerned the Crown-
of-Thorns starfish infestation of Pacific coral reefs, the history of our
volunteer armies, and a historical appraisal of women’s rights move-
ments. Smithsonian scientists and staff members contributing to
Smithsonian included Dr. John Eisenberg of the National Zoological
Park, James Weaver of the National Museum of History and Tech-
nology’s Division of Musical Instruments, and photographer Francis
Greenwell of the National Museum of Natural History. In addition,
Regent Crawford H. Greenewalt contributed an article, with his own
photographs, on Birds of Paradise.

An early letter to the editor perhaps best sums up the broad appeal
and the unique character of Smithsonian. The writer, a high school
graduate and heavy-equipment operator, asked:
PUBLIC SERVICE AND INFORMATION ACTIVITIES 111

I would like to see occasional articles on native and primitive art... plus at
least one good article on heraldry ...and definitions of the items involved in
this form of art.

Edward Thompson has stated that Smithsonian will not disappoint
him or its other readers.

Smithsonian Institution Archives

The Archive’s major obligations are preservation of the materials in
its custody and announcement of the availability of three resources to
scholars. At present physical work predominates; records are separated
into discrete units, cleaned, boxed, and shelved. During this arrange-
ment process a limited amount of information is also collected about
each record or manuscript unit, and in Jaunary 1971 this information
will be issued as the first comprehensive finding aid to the Archives’
holdings. Description of records in depth has begun and will proceed
according to the research importance of the materials. A full guide to
the Smithsonian Archives will appear in about four years.

The program for physical arrangement and production of good
quality-finding aids will create information which can be computerized
simply and effectively. When information of sufficient quality about
the collections has been assembled, the Archives will be prepared for
computerized finding aids to complement information systems within
other divisions of the Smithsonian and national systems for manu-
script collections.

In March 1970 the Archives occupied its newly remodeled space in
the Smithsonian Institution Building. Reference service was provided
to a wide range of users. Drs. Charles G. Abbot and Alexander Wet-
more made arrangements for transfer of their personal Secretarial
papers to the Smithsonian. This was the highlight of the year and
undoubtedly ranks among the most important transactions in the
history of the Smithsonian Archives.

Smithsonian Institution Libraries

The Smithsonian Institution and the National Agricultural Library
conducted a facsimile transmission experiment to augment delivery
2 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1970

service between the two libraries. Permanent transmission services
await staff augmentation. The Libraries produced an exhibit, to be
available through the Traveling Exhibition Service (sires) commem-
orating the 100th anniversary of the publication of Alfred Wallace’s
The Malay Archipelago. The first American Library Association tu-
torial program on basic library automation was conducted by the
Smithsonian Libraries, with the District of Columbia Library Associa-
tion as a cosponsor. The Institution was elected to its third consecutive
two-year term on the Federal Library Committee.

Reduced buying power of funds for the purchase of library materials
heightened the importance of the Libraries’ gift and exchange pro-
gram. A new review process was organized and subject experts on the
Libraries’ staff selected over 5,000 items for retention from among the
many items received this year. This effort was capped by a valuable
gift of historical items in botany by Mr. Harry Lubrecht of New York
City. Processing was begun of the rare books in the Dwight-Tucker
ornithological collection and the task of recataloging the Department
of Anthropology Library reached the halfway mark in 1970.

A long-range solution to space problems for the curation of the
Libraries’ collections was reached through the creation of the Smith-
sonian Institution Library Center away from the Mall in the Institu-
tion’s Lamont Street building. The Center will hold the growing
number of large and special collections, particularly for historical re-
search. Library space in Mall buildings will be devoted to reference
and concentrated research collections. The large collection transferred
to the Smithsonian from the Patent Office last year was moved im-
mediately to the Center.

International Exchange Service

Publications weighing more than 700,000 pounds were received
from over 370 organizations in the United States for exchange with
libraries in other countries. Exchange publications weighing approxi-
mately 500,000 pounds were forwarded by ocean freight to 39 exchange
bureaus in 32 countries, and approximately 200,000 pounds were
mailed to addressees in countries that do not have exchange bureaus.
More than 120,000 pounds were received in exchange from the foreign
exchange bureaus for addressees in the United States.

Some 350,000 pounds of official United States publications were ex-
changed for the official documents of other countries. Recipients in 45
countries received the full sets of official publications, and partial sets
PUBLIC SERVICE AND INFORMATION ACTIVITIES 113

were sent to recipients in 34 countries. The official journals, the Con-
gresstonal Record, and the Federal Register were sent on exchange to
65 countries. United States patent specifications were exchanged with
patent libraries in 24 countries.

Medical and dental publications were received from more than 180
libraries in the United States for exchange with medical and dental
libraries in other countries.

During the year the United States Department of Agriculture and
the Geological Survey discontinued using the Service for the mailing
list portions of their exchange programs.

Information Systems Division

The Information Systems Division, staffed with specialists in re-
trieval and indexing techniques, mathematical computation, and
management information services, continues to provide Smithsonian
museologists and management with technical assistance in all areas of
automation. In addition to the continuing research and development
of new applications and the maintenance of existing systems, several
computer systems were implemented during the year to handle the
diverse information needs of the Institution.

A generalized software package was developed to establish a mu-
seum data file within the Smithsonian, based on a standard means of
recording and updating information. Additional calculation capabili-
ties have been offered to Smithsonian scientists with the development
of a library of advanced mathematical software packages. The Divi-
sion also sponsored seminars in statistical applications to enhance the
value of these computer programs. A system was designed and imple-
mented to combine all personnel and payroll data into one readily
accessible file. Other systems began operating this year to provide rec-
ord-management procedures for library serials, oceanographic rock
samples, and fine-arts inventory, and another to report accumulating
cost and workload data for labor and materials at all management
levels.

As a service to the museum community at large, the Division began
publishing a technical bulletin dedicated to acquainting the reader
with automated systems specifically designed to solve the collection
problems of museums and herbaria. In addition, many members of the
114 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1970

community from both home and abroad attended demonstrations of
the now operating Smithsonian Institution information retrieval
system for handling biological and petrological data in all their
complexities.

Smithsonian Institution Press

The publication programs of the Smithsonian Institution Press were
reviewed in March by a visiting committee of four prominent pub-
lishers. The committee concluded that the Smithsonian is meeting ade-
quately its mandate for diffusion of knowledge to scholars through
publication of research reports and catalogs, but that communication
to a broader audience is not as well organized or as effective. The com-
mittee proposed an organic program of publication on three levels:
(1) leaflets, available at the exhibits of public museums, for the pur-
pose of exhibit interpretation; (2) booklets and other educational
materials, to be produced and distributed by cooperation with other
publishers, for the purpose of extension to schools and communities;
and (3) adult books, related to Smithsonian programs and interests,
for the purpose of reviewing and integrating significant information in
science, history, and art. This plan was reviewed by the Press staff,
the standing Editorial Policy Committee, the Secretary, and the
bureau directors, all of whom gave it their strong endorsements and
approvals for implementation commencing in fiscal 1971.

Arrangements with Random House, Inc. for sales and distribution
of privately funded books in the United States and Canada were termi-
nated at the end of the year. A new contract for these services was
executed with George Braziller, Inc.

Production costs of 111 publications were funded by federal appro-
priation in the amount of $374,497; 11 were supported by Smith-
sonian private funds in the amount of $89,996; and 12 were sub-
sidized by grants of gifts in the amount of $43,157. The total out-
put of 134 titles is listed in Appendix 5. The Press warehouse and
Random House shipped, on order and subscription, a total of 256,000
publications during the year.
PUBLIC SERVICE AND INFORMATION ACTIVITIES 115

Science Information Exchange

Beginning its second decade, the Science Information Exchange
(stz) has continued to expand its services to the national scientific
community. About 100,000 records of currently active research are
received annually and from this automated data bank, thousands of
inquiries are being answered to assist research investigators and ad-
ministrators in the planning and management of the projects and
programs. During 1970 there has been a significant increase in
demands for complex multi-disciplinary, multi-agency compilations
that describe the details of broad programs of national importance,
such as water resources, marine sciences, environmental pollution, and
outdoor recreation. These compilations, including thousands of related
projects, are being furnished as computer listings, printed catalogs, and
tables of data or matrices showing the distribution of research effort
over the appropriate subspecialties of complex programs.

Interest in the international exchange of information of this kind
appears to be increasing, although most announced systems still seem
to be in planning stages. A registry of Scientific and Technical Services
among nine Asiatic nations, however, is currently operational in
Australia, and a one-year experimental exchange arrangement has
been initiated between sir and the International Atomic Energy com-
mission in Vienna.

The Exchange has progressed substantially toward a_ systems-
network capability. About half of the total project input is now being
received on compatible machine-readable tape capable of two way
exchange. Eight keyboard visual screen terminals are now connected
directly to the automated data bank and could be connected through
leased lines whenever remote real time access is deemed desirable and
economically feasible. Within a few months, the full text of all sir
records will be available in the computer store.

Reading Is Fundamental

The National Reading Is Fundamental program (riF) has oper-
ated since 1968 as an independent unit under Smithsonian sponsorship
and is supported by the Ford Foundation. RiF’s purpose is to motivate
disadvantaged youngsters and adults to want to read, by making avail-
able a wide variety of interesting and relevant inexpensive paperbacks.
116 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1970

“Reading Is Fundamental” in Cleveland—Elementary school children participate
in RIF book distribution, visited by their Mayor, the Honorable Carl Stokes
(member of rir National Advisory Board), far right; Joseph D. Burrucker,
Director, Cleveland-rir, standing next to the Mayor; and Jerrold Sandler,
Executive Director, National rir Program, far left. Spring, 1970.

The program stresses self-selection and ownership of books in the belief
that the right to read should be the birthright of all America’s chil-
dren. Under the Ford grant, riF provides technical assistance and
information to those interested in beginning a local project—school
systems, libraries, and community agencies.

During 1969-1970 eleven model projects were developed, covering
both urban and rural areas throughout the country, and including
various ethnic groups—American Indians, Blacks, and Mexican-Ameri-
cans. All funds for books, as well as the selection of titles, were the
responsibility of the local sponsoring groups. Areas covered included
Cleveland; Pittsburgh; Appalachia, Mississippi; New York City; East
Los Angeles; St. Louis; Eastern Shore, Maryland; Columbus, Ohio;
and Washington, D. C. In addition to these model projects, the Read-
ing Is Fundamental central staff acts as liaison with the publishing
industry, government, schools, and libraries regarding book programs
and provides general information to all who seek it.

Two major publications were completed during the year for wide
distribution: Action for Change, a pictorial booklet describing the
PUBLIC SERVICE AND INFORMATION ACTIVITIES 7

national program, and riF’s Guide to Book Selection, including more
than 1700 titles and 1100 authors, with special sections dealing with
materials of relevance to the ethnic groups served. Future plans call
for the development of guidelines for setting up a RIF program and
development of a new film for distribution via television and com-
munity organizations showing the program in action.

The Ford Foundation will continue to support RIF as a Smithsonian
activity through a renewal grant of $400,000 for the three-year period,
1970-1973. Policy guidance for r1F is provided by a National Advisory
Board composed of more than thirty distinguished Americans from
many walks of life. The founder and chairman of rir is Mrs. Robert
S. McNamara; Secretary Ripley serves ex officio as a member of the
RIF board.
ya - us o ie ie: r) ~—a fa
uth i Bid Hh, ayy an w lit

7 Le \ vl Lhe bal | Eyivshd Me ls vey rie,
; (Ae) nee” i oa i : ~ oe net “ a , 7
“a ae is a GW ot Vane 088 . i) hi ;

By

hia ‘ital Eh LAs eu u on ‘Ve

ui/' i H " rh ee | y wiles " Aa oy

Cll ‘ x
'
YT)
ye ba of
yh? ' { 1 in 9¢ 06 OP Ff Co Ae iN
ee te De oC ak te © | ly?

\ oe) ph aya LL ee vba Cie afe

Ph iiuienne ary Phi, wee we: Misia roi
' A 7

1

ey gy

bat my ane
OFFICE OF ACADEMIC: PROGRAMS
814 ARON

Sz ACADEMIC APPOINTMENTS of six months or longer and seventy
of shorter duration were conferred upon students and trainees in
the Institution’s programs of higher education in academic year 1969—
1970 (Appendix 6). All such appointments now depend upon prior
acceptance by members of the professional staff. This was the first year
that the recipients of stipend awards had been chosen by committees
of professional staff members, thus assuring that those selected would
fit in well with our efforts in research. ‘These guarantees have in turn
increased staff members’ willingness to supervise student projects. In a
recent survey of more than 300 staff scientists and scholars only 53
indicated that they would not be available to supervise students
(mostly because of administrative duties or plans to spend most of
their time in the field), while 36 indicated that they would prefer only
students who would assist them directly; 82 indicated a desire to su-
pervise one student working on doctoral dissertation research and 78
expressed interest in having more than one. In addition, over 100
indicated a willingness to assist younger graduate students who had
not yet completed their coursework and 83 indicated a willingness to
offer seminars dealing with their research. This represents a very con-
siderable capacity to conduct higher-education programs. While 29
PhDs were earned within the Smithsonian in 1969-1970, the total
could readily be several times that amount. The Institution’s major
objective in higher education is to employ its capacity to the max-
imum practical extent.

In school services a 50 percent increase was achieved in escorted vis-
its for local schoolchildren this year, through the expanded efforts of
our groups of devoted volunteer docents (see Appendix 6). The total of
68,000 pupils is encouraging, but it is far more important to report
that more and more of their experiences are self-directed explorations
of museum exhibits as resources for individual learning. Rather than
attempt to reproduce the classroom experience of listening to a lecture,
we endeavor to help children learn how to learn on their own, enlisting
visual curiosity and the important sense of touch (8 of the 16 tours
offered each day include objects to be passed around). Let our concern
about the limitations of conventional schooling lead us to significant
experiments in the development of learning environments in the con-
genial and fascinating open settings of museums. In January we drew
together a group of educators and museum staff members from around
the country to help identify the most promising contributions of mu-

121
129 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1970

seums to science education. Its recommendations are being transmitted
to the National Science Foundation, which supported the conference.
With the aid of grants from the Charles F. Kettering Foundation and
The New World Foundation, Professor John Appel of Michigan State
University has conducted a pilot project in the preparation of learning
resource materials from the Smithsonian collections to show the his-
tory of prejudice in America through the portrayal of ethnic and racial
stereotypes in cartooning and the popular arts. The Institution also
agreed to cooperate with the Encyclopaedia Britannica Educational
Corporation in preparing sound filmstrips, an experiment aimed at
extending the museum into the nation’s classrooms.

Perhaps the greatest need in education is to introduce the compre-
hensive insights of modern science and scholarship into the process of
education at all levels. The Smithsonian is endeavoring to conduct
cycles of activities, each to last for a year or so, such as a series of com-
missioned essays to be presented in a major international symposium
and an interdisciplinary exhibit to illuminate and reappraise an area
of knowledge. The fourth cycle will explore cultural factors which may
account for more rapid social change in the modern world. The pro-
gram began with a year-long research seminar on popular culture con-
ducted for faculty members and staff members of organizations in the
Washington area, which was a fascinating exploration of the subject
matter while serving as a welcome opportunity for interchange among
scholars in the metropolitan area.
ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT
7 9 ‘er onrae + eve payee

s As a 7
wield ' a eri: ardtbon ina owe , cana gl anid Sr er
’ “ aie Piciiimal.* 7 a = sa hana nfAe KH eS witch

_

4

iy iar dd o} UL ee tien? €4 eget |
; thi be ¥ oe ee i louder c F404 Apt Ai :
: , mle Gee) (v.) O> uw bu ieee
‘ , Me > .' ther! a ae ot opera ~ihe
apt Gs ite! ; ; Me
use re | wnhoey etal

( Saf ® D e y } ; of cur

MT MATE AGRE VT: 7 vee HVT

, » ee
: }
— : eal
a ¥ Let
|
aS
HE RELATIONSHIP of the Smithsonian Institution’s executive man-

agement staff with its bureau directors and managers of other
organization units may be described as one of partnership directed
toward national goals in the fields of research, education, exhibition,
culture, and public enlightenment. Day-to-day activities in furthering
these objectives result in this partnership interacting in numerous
ways, large and small, with every branch of government; schools and
universities, museums and art galleries; citizens of all ages; professional
societies and organizations; scientists and scholars, artists and authors
the world over; foreign governments and institutions, and the inter-
national public. The program support groups also form a vital segment
of this very diverse, yet closely related, internal and external network.
Significant steps, such as the forming of an internal audits activity in
the Office of the Under Secretary, have been taken during the year to
strengthen and simplify the administrative framework within which
all of these relationships function and thrive.

To enhance the efforts of the support units, some growth has been
realized this year in two areas—the Office of Personnel and Manage-
ment Resources benefitted by the addition of several positions and the
Travel Services Office added one employee. Despite these modest
increases, the support group as a whole has not yet realized position
and funding increases commensurate with the growth of the Smith-
sonian program units. These handicaps did not lessen the lively inter-
est, continuing cooperation, and dedicated efforts of these groups. A
review of their individual and collective accomplishments during the
year reveals that a noteworthy volume of high-standard work has been
performed. The following statement highlights some of their

achievements.

PROGRAM SUPPORT ACTIVITIES

The Office of Personnel and Management Resources has continued
to advise and assist all Smithsonian staff in encouraging the develop-
ment of an atmosphere of individual achievement within a framework
of sound management of human resources. During this year an embry-
onic manpower program was developed, which established manpower

125
126 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1970

“ceilings” for the organizations within the Institution, and managers
were asked to develop their programs within these ceilings. In this pro-
gram top management is involved increasingly in decisions affecting
human resources management. Manpower adjustments and_ key
employee selections are reviewed by the appropriate Assistant Secre-
tary and recommendations presented to the Secretary for decision.
This procedure has the effect of translating top management interest
throughout the Institution and contributes immeasurably to high-
quality staffing and efficient manpower utilization.

An exciting program called “Vision ’70” was launched this year in
an effort to broaden the horizons of administrators, managers, and
employees. This program began with a series of film presentations
encompassing vital challenges of life in the 70s. One series of four films
about Black America drew an attendance of 600. Other series were pre-
sented on environmental pollution and on drugs in American life. The
goal calls for a monthly series on interrelated presentations, lectures,
discussions, and symposia.

The awards program through which excellence can be rewarded has
been simplified and authority to grant awards was delegated to bureau
directors, eliminating unnecessary committees and additional paper-
work. The career-development and job-enrichment training authority
also has been delegated to bureau directors giving them the ability to
plan their staffs training consistent with program requirements. A
pilot program started in one major bureau in which the authority to
classify jobs was delegated may develop into a prototype leading to
increased flexibility for managers.

The training and development program provided for the attendance
of two major program managers at the Federal Executive Institute, a
voluntary executive management-development film program, a forty-
hour first-level supervisory development program, and a secretarial
training course tailor-made for the Smithsonian. These were in addi-
tion to continuing skills development in on-and-off the job training
provided to employees from the trades and crafts through the profes-
sional ranks.

The varied activities of the Office as evidenced by the following
statistical table of personnel actions, reflects the dynamics of organiza-

tional life of the Smithsonian Institution:
ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT 127

Federal Private Total
New hires 744 499 1243
Employees leaving 604 391 995
Grade promotions 542 145 687
Other actions (reassignments,
job changes, etc.) 621 269 890
Meritorious pay increases 178 24 202
Regular pay increases 784 184 968
Total actions 3473 12" 4985,

A special survey showed that this year the office received 452+
visitors, responded to 52,392 telephone calls, and replied to 3240 let-
ters. This total of over 60,000 responses to individuals seeking informa-
tion is in addition to some 5000 internal requests from managers,
supervisors, and employees.

Under the personal leadership of the Secretary, the Smithsonian’s
Office of Equal Employment Opportunity has continued a realistic
program designed to assure genuine equality of opportunity in all
official actions of the Smithsonian Institution.

During the year approximately 110 consultations were conducted
with individual supervisory staff members on matters relating to their
selections of candidates for promotion under the merit promotion pro-
gram. A number of informal complaints were reviewed, factual
information developed, and necessary adjustments made to the satis-
faction of the complainants. Upon request, special counseling services
are provided regularly to employees aspiring to positions of greater
responsibility. This service provides staff members with information
about educational opportunities available in the metropolitan D.C.
area and the methods for acquiring specific educational and experi-
ence requirements for career advancement.

Two special training sessions were conducted for employees assigned
recently to supervisory positions. The discussions stressed the necessity
for eliminating personal prejudices, indifference to the needs of
employees, and favoritism in supervisory practices.

In cooperation with the Office of Personnel and Management
Resources a program is being developed to offer additional career
opportunities for employees in lower-level positions.

The past year was one of progressive change and improvement for
the Buildings Management Department. With the assistance of a pri-
vate management consulting firm, an analysis was made of the Depart-
ment’s program and functional areas and plans were developed to
provide a more manageable and effective operation. Service units were
consolidated into three major groupings: Building Services Division,
Engineering and Construction Division, and Protection Divison. The
128 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1970

new Epp (electronic data processing)-oriented system was imple-
mented to provide regular, detailed financial and work-progress data
covering virtually all services performed by the Department.

The largest of all Smithsonian units, the Department is responsible
for the operation and maintenance of the physical plant, which com-
prises nearly 3.5 million square feet of floor space; safeguarding the
priceless national collections, and guiding, assisting, and protecting the
millions of people who visit the Smithsonian each year. The very spirit
of these responsibilities results in the Department giving daily support
to the Institution’s diversified research, cultural, educational, and
public enlightenment programs.

The 2560 special events and ceremonies which occurred during the
year, required major participation by the Department. These included
the Folklife Festival and the Tent Theatre productions which were pre-
sented on the Mall. In addition, special efforts were required to cope
with problems associated with various demonstrations held in the
vicinity of Smithsonian Institution buildings.

Major construction and renovation projects, which will total an
expenditure of $16.6 million when completed, required the Depart-
ment’s continuing attention. This included design work, design-review
planning conferences, contract development and review, as well as
contract supervision. Major projects in this category were: the Hirsh-
horn Museum and Sculpture Garden, renovation of the original Smith-
sonian Institution Building, restoration of the exterior of the Arts and
Industries Building, and remodeling of the snack bar in the History
and Technology Building. Innumerable smaller projects were under-
taken throughout the Smithsonian properties, including renovation
and construction of office spaces, modifications to air-handling equip-
ment, installation of a new freight elevator in the Freer, and extensive
design work for other proposed projects.

The Administrative Ssytems Division issued in April the Smithson-
ian Staff Handbook 510—Requisitioning—Purchase of Supplies and
Services. Work started on another handbook in this series, which will
furnish policy and procedural guidelines covering internal services
available to managers and supervisors in support of their programs.
Some 250 administrative issuances were distributed to the staff, rang-
ing from matters of permanent major policy and procedural guidelines
to special interim instructions and matter-of-fact information of a tem-
porary nature. Material about the staffing and functions of the organi-
zations in the Smithsonian was provided to 30 external publications. A
program was developed, in cooperation with the Information Systems
Division, to provide computer support for the preparation and mainte-
129

ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT

‘p pue ‘¢ *F $9}0U}OOFJ 18
peyHuesp!l st Japureulal ay} : UOTI[IU YJANOJ-IU0 Ajoyeurxoidde 10} syunoo0e YIMos [euUIOU “6961 AY J9AO asvaIoUL UOT] Z°¢ 94} JOc
‘QSVIIIUL UOL[][TW-J[VY-IUO-pUL-IUO BY} IO} JUNODIE S}IqIyXs Josey VY} Jo Aytaepndod dy} PUR SUC VIJSUOUAP UINTIO}JRIOY ;
‘QSVIIOUL UOT[[IUI-Y}AINOJ-991Y} VY} Ul PayopHet ST syysty soeds wo1y posmboe A]UBIII S]IGIYXI IY} UT jS919JUT VPIMP]IOM ¢
‘QSVIIOUT UOT][IUI JUO JY} UL PaJIIPot St JIGIYXI YOI-UooU VY} JO Ayuejndod ayy, z
“UOT}VAOUVI OF PIso[D

cCOLS8S°SI  §2S9I¢ + SGC E8H'C COS LIZ 2 SLE 668 I 16Z°692§  <zSGI'LoG°% = s[B10 T,
768° SOG‘I 892 81 696 619 8E1 9c 092681 L69°OSE 090°Sba paso[D aunf
000°08F'T C98°CC L0L‘°989 16¢°91 C81 F9I LIQ‘ILS 8S0°C1Z Peso[p Avy
626816" LL9‘°9¢ G01 ES9 62c 0G L86°C8I COE E8E OS9°LGz Paso[D Judy
CIG9L0 I 66601 616 6cF 689° LI LCO'8S1 C19°G8z 669 F61 pesolp yore yy
FEL 09G 9696 669°S1Z 00s OI 0So°L9 066° FSI 6L4 201 peso Areniga J
BLG°9CC 60 41 L8r‘L61 9C6 II £0094 FPO LF +61 ‘601 paso[y Arenue [

OL61
€S1 684 86S°01 F0C‘981 CrO'L 169°SS €88 rol cS LOL PesolD Jaquis99q
oLL 840 | 6911 296 60F BL LCI $c9 801 669 LEG 912 6b Pesolp eS JaqUIdAON
90F b26 CL6°0G CE9° LOE OcI‘SI 6F8°ChI CLE 861 GCE FS pesolp aa gee 134019O
BLE FEL Gal 166° Cha ESCO Z00°Z01 8s9°Col LEC*8sl pesolpD he Jaquia}dag
089°ZL6'1 9c Iz LEOLGGE 6E9'CE 16c SS¢ O86 8hr LOILES PesolD ie wie: ysnsny
$60 9FL I 610° FI CPL BIL 662 LG LI6‘8Lz 606 885 88E'8IE P9solD i eS av a

eee ee oe ee ee ee a Ee 2 eee
51090 7, Saiayvy) suipying jap fo durpying suipping Salgsnpuy suipying
JIDLJLO gq puv fsojouyIa T, 1a]]04) avg 5 10981] @ SUP 1 UDIWOSYJIW S ipa X [DIS
SPAY aury B t1ojsipy PES | & up ]D4NjD N

O61 eunf O¢-—6961 AML I—OLET IPP [eosty Suing ssoystA WeTUOsy US
130 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1970

nance of data required for the Smithsonian Institution Directory. The
Forms Management Unit processed, through in-house reproduction,
604 requests from 112 organizations for a variety of forms and form
letters to support management, research, education, exhibition, and
public service activities. In addition, 149 orders were placed with the
Government Printing Office and other external sources.

The Photographic Services Division continued its active participa-
tion in programs concerned with research, documentation and con-
servation of collections, exhibitions, education, training, publications,
and public service; and provided essential technical assistance and
guidance as well as training for staff members in other Smithsonian
organizations. Outstanding special exhibits, benefiting from profes-
sional photographic talent, where the “Laser 10,” “Neutra,” “Com-
puter,” and “Frederick Douglass” shows.

The 5870 work requests received by the Division provided 23,734
negatives, 13,734 transparencies, 33,699 microfilm frames, and 103,-
094 prints.

The Travel Services Office continues to experience growth in some
major services, i.e., air and rail reservations booked were up 6 percent;
travel itineraries issued 16 percent, and transportation requests pre-
pared 10 percent, and the dollar value of all transportation purchased
was some $53,000 higher than last year. Formerly cumbersome proce-
dures involved in obtaining travel with excess foreign currencies for
affiliates of the American Institute of Indian Studies have been stream-
lined. Travel management advice, program planning assistance, and a
wide variety of travel services and technical guidance were provided to
support major national and international symposia, meetings, expedi-
tions, and special programs.

Purchases by the Supply Division this year have exceeded 12,000
units, an estimated increase of 1000 over the previous year. Under
the government property distribution and utilization programs, items
from airplanes to missiles—including a seagoing vessel from the Coast
Guard—with an original acquisition value exceeding $8,000,000, have
been obtained for exhibition and research purposes.

CONSTRUCTION PROGRESS

National Museum of History and Technology

Calder Stabile. A contract to install a filtration system for the pool
was let 24 February 1970 to the John J. Kirlin Co. Completion of this
work is expected by 24 August 1970.
ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT 131

Snack Bar. This facility was completely remodeled by the Joseph
McCann Company. Construction commenced on 4 February 1970 and
was completed on | June 1970.

Joseph H. Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden

Contract was awarded to the Piracci Construction Company and
actual work was started on 23 March 1970. The projected completion
date of this project is September 1972.

National Zoological Park

Hospital-Research Building. he Lomack Corporation contractors
completed their work in December. The building, now partially occu-
pied, will be completely used when required furnishings are delivered
and installed.

Multiclimate House. Severe modifications in the final design
resulted in the indefinite deferment of this project.

Heating Study. Final design was accepted and bids will be let and
construction started early in fiscal year 1971.

Pollution Abatement Study. Recommended modifications of the
sewerage system were accomplished and some erosion control measures
were implemented at the same time.

Restoration and Renovation of Buildings

Renovation of Smithsonian Institution Building. The Grunley-
Walsh Construction Company continued work throughout the year.
The project was accepted as being substantially completed on 29 June
1970.

Freight Elevator in Freer Gallery. Contracts were let for this project
on 3 March 1970. It is expected that the project will be completed by
the fall of 1970.

Renwick Gallery. A contract for furthering restoration work was
awarded to Associated Builders, Inc., on 15 June 1970. It is antici-
pated that this work will be completed about 15 October 1970.

Arts and Industries Building. A contract was awarded on 4 August
1969 to Mr. William Watts for the cleaning and restoration of the
exterior of the building. Work was completed during November 1969.

Feasibility Studies

National Museum of History and Technology. A feasibility study
was made to result in the preparation of a design for facilities necessary
for the celebration of the Bicentennial of the American Revolution.
132 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1970

Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars. The Urban
Design and Development Corporation completed a study for the
Center to be located on a proposed Pennsylvania Avenue-Market
Square complex. The conclusions were that the location was not feas-
ible and that, if the entire complex could not be constructed under a
central agency, the Center should be located elsewhere.

Parking. A draft of the study made by Wilbur Smith and Associates
for Mall garages and Zoo parking is being reviewed.

Storage. The study completed by the George M. Ewing Company for
redevelopment of the Smithsonian’s Silver Hill facility is being
reviewed.
NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART
rent " a) . fe i —" Tl i i —
Pr oF a vg , . a |

a ed Hon TL, peepee abel et hn

One ys Pa = shin Fe ge wart vi #
tit qh) i De Viet Miee uti "ay
Rei aM wu hD, mir mi Aine ip a? Sar oqauld
Ue Sink Tne me i‘ es Le ee rd) aqi-ie (eel
fa? ote y, Aer (atta be nlliadm i" eg
Vaileleed. Ayala! io) i a Va rielt
yy Te ade
The ~ WA ‘eal : i : tv 2S, Vi
wir Pe ad ve OU ot ar

MATAR AO “t AAT Oo UAV OTT
a.

>
fl

1
crs
ine A
te
!
-_ =
i 24
is
Pa
i !
5
q oe af i
National Gallery of Art

J. CARTER Brown, Director

i Fae NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART, although technically established

as a bureau of the Smithsonian Institution, is an autonomous and
separately administered organization. It is governed by its own
Board of Trustees, the statutory members of which are, ex officio, the
Chief Justice of the United States (Chairman), the Secretary of State,
the Secretary of the Treasury, and the Secretary of the Smithsonian
Institution. There are also five General Trustees, from whom, in fiscal
year 1970, Paul Mellon was reelected President of the Gallery, and
John Hay Whitney, Vice President. The other General Trustees con-
tinuing to serve were Dr. Franklin D. Murphy, Lessing J. Rosenwald,
and Stoddard M. Stevens.

During the fiscal year 1970 the Gallery had 1,935,533 visitors, an
increase of more than 50 percent over the previous year. Its collections
were augmented by an unusually large number of important accessions.
Most notable among these is the Ailsa Mellon Bruce bequest, a collec-
tion which includes Bazille and Camille and The Artist’s Garden at
Vétheuil, both by Monet; and, among twenty two Renoirs, Le Pont
Neuf and Madame Monet and her Son in their Garden at Argenteuil.
Also in the collection is Riverbank by Cézanne, nine paintings by Bon-
nard, five by Pissarro, ten by Vuillard, and the Condesa de Chinchén
by Goya.

The major single acquisition was The Artist’s Father by Cézanne, a
gift of Mr. Paul Mellon. Other important acquisitions include two
Cubist paintings, Football Players by Albert Gleizes and Rush Hour,
New York by Max Weber; The City from Greenwich Village by John
Sloan; and drawings by Andrew Wyeth and van Dyck. Portrait of
Mme. Caillebotte, by Renoir, was bequeathed by Angelika Wertheim
Frink. The Gallery also received two American naive paintings from
Colonel and Mrs. Edgar William Garbisch. Loans were made to 61
institutions in this country and abroad.

Especially notable among the years’s exhibitions at the Gallery were
“German Expressionist Watercolors,’ “Old Master Drawings from
Chatsworth,” “Joseph Wright of Derby,’ “The Artist and Space,”

135
136 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1970

“Masterpieces of African Sculpture” (attended by 118,801 persons in
five weeks), and “The Reality of Appearance: The Trompe Oeil Tra-
dition in American Painting.”

In February, the Gallery announced a multimedia education pro-
gram for junior and senior high schools throughout the nation, which
will use a new means of reaching students. The program is based on a
low-priced periodical called “Art and Man,” published by Scholastic
Magazines. This is packaged with filmstrips, slides, posters, color
reproductions, and teaching guides. These are drawn from the resources
not only of the National Gallery, but of other museums and private
collections throughout the world.

The Gallery’s extension services have also developed a comprehensive
audio-visual program for use in classrooms. Slide lectures covering the
history of art from the Byzantine period to the 20th century, traveling
exhibits of framed reproductions, and 16-mm motion pictures dealing
with art, humanities, history, social studies, and literature are loaned
to schools at no cost. Last year extension services materials were used
in over 3,000 communities in the nation and reached more than
3,100,000 people.

Total attendance at talks given by the Gallery’s educational staff and
for the programs presented in the auditorium, exclusive of “Civilisa-
tion” films, was 89,951 for 2610 separate tours and events. This repre-
sents an increase in attendance of 2993 over last year, when 2518 pro-
grams were scheduled. Some of the events regularly presented at the
Gallery are its Tours of the Week, Paintings of the Week, and the Sun-
day Auditorium Lectures and Films.

Late last October the American premiere of the thirteen-part series
‘Civilisation,’ narrated by Britian’s distinguished art historian
Kenneth Clark, was presented at the Gallery. Audience response to this
extraordinary series was immediate and enthusiastic. Through gener-
ous public cooperation, funds were raised to purchase prints of the
entire series, making it possible for the series to be shown on a continual
basis. Attendance in the Gallery at the films was over 247,000. In
addition, the Gallery loaned its print, by request, to the White House,
the Department of State, and the Central Intelligence Agency.

That same month saw the broadcast over the National Educational
Television (NET) network of “In Search of Rembrandt,’ which was
made possible by a grant to the National Gallery by Mrs. Cordelia
Scaife May. The hour-long program, produced by the Gallery, was
narrated by James Mason. Net cameras recorded more than 600
Rembrandt paintings and drawings from some 100 museums through-
out the world, some of which are part of the Gallery’s collection. The
NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART ila)

film is now available through the Gallery to schools, libraries, and other
educational institutions.

There were thirty-two guest lecturers who spoke at the Gallery dur-
ing the last fiscal year. They included the A. W. Mellon Lecturer in the
Fine Arts, Sir Nikolaus Pevsner, who gave eight talks on the subject of
“Some Aspects of Nineteenth-Century Architecture.”

Through the new self-service sales facility the Gallery’s publications
fund made available fourteen new publications, as well as eight cata-
logs of those exhibitions shown at the Gallery. During the year over
370,000 customers were served.

Under the supervision of Richard Bales, forty concerts were given
on Sundays in the East Garden Court, twelve of them by the National
Gallery Orchestra. Attendance continued high throughout the season,
usually at capacity for the orchestral programs. All concerts were
broadcast in their entirety by station WGMS, AM-FM.

Scientific research on the causes of deterioration of museum objects,
sponsored in large part by the National Gallery, continues at Carnegie-
Mellon University’s Mellon Institute, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. The
fading of pigments and dyes has received major consideration, as well
as the processes of oxidation and ways in which they may be inhibited.
This research project is exploring the application of durable modern
materials to problems in conservation and is concentrated principally
on polymer emulsions, ultraviolet absorbers, and solvents for the
removal of synthetic polymers.

I. M. Pei & Partners moved ahead on the design of the East Building
and connecting link addition to the Gallery. Plans call for over half a
million gross square feet of space devoted to exhibition galleries and
related supporting facilities, such as a Center for Advanced Study in
the Visual Arts, a library, print and drawing facilities, photo archives,
and offices for the Gallery’s administrative and curatorial staff.
on

tA AOC PR

Viele debealcli® ileeeu ee bpritah’) uiew tides) PR «ie
it yAG A ; hen jiercegayt
PA: melt oma sea SOT 9), ar cecaingth Sepa gy Ad hal) ee 7
ela eke, Godteheta] th yh ade coe, eo Giern whl UATE
HAs ihe wor td stele oa cde oe oe ae
selvgoderbwes) resale a kul onnbe Wea

AAA iad Pe SAwil ‘ua oy hevergtes Dive! Gating
a a FT Per i Pe Penks Aan i Sod) eee
(AP vant, Wid: Ww) on in eons tridelwielel

bea se We

eA pp shai oh well AL eat 9 wish
or yt Ay, vr / itis ) ghay'tiad tiling pid, r r
wt i congiral 44 UT A eo
ives GMS-enG4ti iid bi Niemen pia ilomoep ih, 1) hee
T a nd ai Ta patna tin
a wart 0k) ) 000
G PTPF AL dy it 1 wate (aay Wu 2p
bey 4 (enhd') cohen |) VI Prag LAR eA iit Bed
iy. ier Abentred) nen ( i] , ine
Ooty) ig 39, oo kv of Le OMIA)
Tar it eit mee oo fees is i), Sethe? i‘ Teer
Tea Mee Da Ca CR Ree 2
5 i) } lak Upitieun ora — Viti? pie Oy, oe:
evut tate th
its Gulch MR A461 ieee! Se arent | ar
Ts ret btiol iar L cpreltad 9) OF. nihba daly
Ma ROSTER, mouitiles wh Deluel fo Ua “a om
' i aparently | bis J ‘, ie gite: a? ‘
Lia UL ae . yt) ea br iy ‘enn

Rute laolen » Eviedn th 1) en Au cote iin

i i ,

et ee
‘ 4 o' Gu =

“ : Mg Ati e
4 Pre
ae} 0) —
; y@ wry
Unis ead _ iw hin

\ . fe cone \sighr 4 -

& px) at mal a hwy y
' ; 7 Auld. Be
> i j Siief Fa and seubeb

vite Joe Ay big tro gee Aaa
eal a 146 ie
WOEN FF? KENNEDY CENTER FOR
THE PERFORMING ARTS
Cra
|

John F. Kennedy Center for
the Performing Arts

WiLuiAM McC. BLA, JR., General Director

Boost NIXON BECAME THE FOURTH AMERICAN PRESIDENT to

give tangible support to the John F. Kennedy Center for the Per-
forming Arts when on 17 October 1969 he signed a bill authorizing
additional federal funds for the Center. The authorization increased
the Center’s matching federal grant from $15.5 million to $23 million
and the United States Treasury loan from $15.4 million to $20.4 mil-
lion. Without these additional funds, which were subsequently appro-
priated, construction of the Center could not have been completed on
schedule (P.L. 91-90).

The Center was initiated by President Eisenhower on 2 September
1958 as the National Cultural Center (P.L. 85-874). It received the
strong support of President Kennedy who signed legislation extending
the fund-raising deadline on 19 August 1963 (P.L. 88-100). The Center
was named as the sole official memorial in the nation’s capital to
President Kennedy on 23 January 1964 when President Johnson signed
the John F. Kennedy Center Act (P.L. 88-206). This legislation also
provided the first federal funds for the project.

The Kennedy Center is administered separately by a 45-member
Board of Trustees appointed by the President to ten-year terms, together
with members ex-officio from pertinent public agencies and from the
United States Senate and House of Representatives. Members of the
Board at the end of fiscal 1970 are as follows:

Richard Adler Representative Peter H. B.
Floyd D. Akers Frelinghuysen

Robert O. Anderson Senator J. William Fulbright
Ralph E. Becker Mrs. George A. Garrett

K. LeMoyne Billings Leonard H. Goldenson
Edgar M. Bronfman Mrs. Rebekah Harkness
Mrs. George R. Brown George B. Hartzog, Jr.
Robert W. Dowling Senator Edward M. Kennedy
Ralph W. Ellison Thomas H. Kuchel

Abe Fortas Mrs. Albert D. Lasker

141
142

Erich Leinsdorf

Sol Myron Linowitz
Mrs. Michael J. Mansfield
Harry C. McPherson, Jr.
George Meany

Robert I. Millonzi

L. Quincy Mumford
Senator Charles Percy
Elliot Richardson

John Richardson, Jr.

S. Dillon Ripley II

SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1970

Mrs. Jouett Shouse
Mrs. Stephen E. Smith
Roger L. Stevens
William H. Thomas
Representative Frank H.
Thompson, Jr.
Jack J. Valenti
William Walton
Walter E. Washington
Lew R. Wasserman
Edwin L. Weisl, Sr.

Richard Rodgers
Arthur M. Schlesinger, Jr.

Representative James C. Wright, Jr.
Senator Ralph W. Yarborough

On 27 March 1970 President Nixon appointed a 57-member Advi-
sory Committee on the Arts for the Center under the chairmanship of
Mrs. J. Willard Marriott of Washington, D.C. On 26 May the Presi-
dent appointed an additional 49 members to the Advisory Committee,
which is provided for in the John F. Kennedy Center Act.

Members of the Advisory Committee were sworn into office by
Robert H. Finch, Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare and a
Trustee of the Center, on 8 June 1970 preceding their first business
meeting. This committee, which represents 48 states and serves at the
pleasure of the President, will make recommendations to the Board

John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts nearing completion.
JOHN F. KENNEDY CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS 143

of Trustees regarding programs presented by the Center and also will
assist the Board in its fund-raising program.

Construction of the Kennedy Center stands 75 percent complete at
the end of fiscal year 1970, compared with 50 percent a year ago. An
average of 600 men are working daily on the structure to assure that
the official opening can take place during the second week of Septem-
ber 1971. Early in March 1970, Ambassador Egidio Ortona of Italy
witnessed the placing of the final piece of Carrara marble in the
Center’s exterior wall which closed in the building. The Center’s entire
requirement for marble, about 3500 tons, is an official gift of the
people of Italy.

Progress payments for construction in place and materials furnished
reached $50.1 million of which $41.8 million were federal funds in-
cluding $20.4 million of repayable bonds. Six additional subcontracts
totaling $1.6 million were awarded during the year bringing to thirty-
eight the number of separate competitive awards made since construc-
tion began in 1965. The awards total nearly $36 million.

The subcontracts awarded during the year are as follows:

Auditorium seating: American Seating Company of Palisades Park, New Jersey;
$434,885.

Ceramic tile and terrazzo: Peter Bratti Associates, Inc. of New York, New York;
$395,300.

Plumbing enclosures and partitions: Global Steel Products Corporation of Deer
Park, Long Island, New York; $57,000.

Painting and finishing and wall coating: Clifton D. Mayhew, Inc. of Arlington,
Virginia; $516,000.

Wood flooring: Couglin-Berk, Inc. of New York, New York; $162,380.

Drapery, curtain, and heavy-duty track: Washington Shade and Awning Co. of
Washington, D.C.; $11,980.

The Secretary of State of Canada, the Honorable Gerard Pelletier,
announced his government’s gift to the Kennedy Center on 16 April
1970 during a brief ceremony at the Center’s construction site. The
gift, the ninth from a foreign nation, is a woolen stage curtain for the
Eisenhower Theater designed by Madame Mariette Rosseau-Vermette,
designer of the curtain for the Opera of the National Arts Centre
in Ottawa. In addition to the nine nations which have already pre-
sented gifts to the Kennedy Center, there are more than twenty coun-
tries that have offered gifts, and discussions with them are continuing.

Looking forward to one kind of education program that will be
presented by the Kennedy Center after its opening, the Center pre-
sented both the second American College Theater Festival and the
National College Jazz Festival in the spring of 1970. The theater
festival, presented with the Smithsonian and sponsored by American
144 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1970

Presentation of a color sketch of the black-and-red woolen stage curtain for the
Kennedy Center’s Eisenhower Theater, a gift of the people of Canada. Left to
right, Susan Eisenhower, granddaughter of Mrs. Dwight D. Eisenhower;
Madame Mariette Rousseau-Vermette, designer of the stage curtain; Roger L.
Stevens, Chairman of the Board of Trustees of the Kennedy Center; the Honor-
able Gerard Pelletier, Secretary of State of Canada; Mrs. Edward M. Kennedy,
representing the Kennedy family.

Airlines, brought ten of the nation’s best college theater companies to
perform at I’ord’s Theatre and the new George Washington Univer-
sity Center Theater between 27 April and 12 May. The jazz festival
presented finalists from six regional college jazz festivals at the Kran-
nert Center for the Performing Arts at the University of Illinois in
Champaign-Urbana on 16 and 17 May.

John LaMontaine, the American composer, was commissioned to
write a work for orchestra and organ for the opening season of the
Center and first performance on the organ in the Concert Hall, it was
announced on 28 January 1970. The work was commissioned by Mrs.
Jouett Shouse, a Trustee of the Center and the donor of the Concert
Hall’s Aeolian Skinner organ. The theme for Mr. LaMontaine’s com-
position will be taken from the books of Henry Thoreau, Winter,
Spring, Summer, and Autumn.

On 18 June 1970 the Center sponsored “An Evening with Edward
Villella” at Lisner Auditorium which presented Edward Villella,
Patricia McBride, Violette Verdy, and ten other dancers from the
New York City Ballet. About 150 tickets were made available to
students at one dollar through the sale of benefit tickets.
JOHN F. KENNEDY CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS 145

With the substantial progress of interior construction work during
fiscal year 1970, tours of the building were arranged on a limited
basis. In September 1969 all major contributors to the Center in the
Washington area were invited to see the building. Subsequently dur-
ing the year many foreign ambassadors to the United States, the cul-
tural attaches of all foreign embassies, members of the press, the D.C.
Arts Council, representatives of the National Endowment on the Arts
and the United States Information Agency, and other groups with a
special interest in the building were invited for a tour.

The Friends of the Kennedy Center, established as an auxiliary
organization by the Trustees in 1966, have about 3000 members in
48 states and 29 regional and state chairmen. ‘The Friends are seeking
to expand membership both in the Washington area and across the
country and welcome all new members.

On 2 June the National Council of the Friends met to elect the
following officers:

Mrs. Polk Guest, chairman

Mrs. Norris Dodson, Jr., vice chairman

Mrs. Eugene Carusi, secretary

Mr. Henry Strong, treasurer

During July and August 1969, the Friends sponsored a city-wide
arts project under the title, “Music, Music, Music” for which 1000
children produced works of art in conjunction with music experiences.
All participants were invited to the construction site on 9 August
for a picnic and to view an exhibit of their works using the River
Terrace covered parkway to form a giant exhibition center.

On 18 December 1969 the Friends produced a unique evening en-
titled “The Kennedy Center is for everyone.” The occasion was the
premiere of the film “Hello, Dolly!,” sponsored by the Kennedy Cen-
ter, and included a box supper at the National Museum of Natural
History. Tickets sold at prices from $1 (limited to students contacted
through city programs) to $50, and by selling a large number of
tickets at the higher prices the Friends were able to make available
over 350 tickets to young people.

The Friends continued to sponsor a weekly radio program on the
performing arts on station wcms, manned the Information Center at
the construction site, and maintained a Speakers Bureau whose mem-
bers gave talks both in Washington and throughout the country. The
Fourth Annual Meeting of the Friends, held 12 and 13 May, featured
Senator Claiborne Pell of Rhode Island as key speaker.
4 j ») Vee, ag en) ole, Nd id API YT:

a a tee . eu th é i aan
oe 4 7, 4 hy WA ee ee POP Ua p: | Ch Pyles ae ae
its ri 4 ; : ; mai.
hon ae ry HO tLe ah ees ee en , We cd |

v. 2
Y ub ibe ue a veri , Yel f ‘yi ; caer,
Wiig 7 fF A D ‘ i
4 roi an tAnwvir i ht eae - A yyenin
a vi = }
* y ‘yl ’ me ee | uP, ' yy i hee c at
: ye . é reits
yin vs 7 ahah y aes ae Pr ve 5 bi ie :
Vex? ‘ A
Th ieee i By ni pp yhyt ; is Ns
2 f - j y
ih a) | nee J } 2
hy A > ; , an
4 n i o y ‘1a E hain Ly f oi ak)
) ; i ;
Oy i ean pi wi eae
a . ‘
oe vit 1 yl abe baa
7 r he
es
eee en ed wt
i ;
f li
| or 4
;
nus
| : eed
7 an a:
atin (Fe Wh ad / oon
) u
r , wo) aie
. ‘id cow bere
72 ; hs
4 t .
SS rai i*
P j i ri ; i
ry
} #1) 1 ¢
i rey ' i” ues
‘ ‘
bis
4;
but hay t A A :
i
}
' ! 3

i sarang

’ « f if
etek hal Shere va ee «

; we i d City f hd oye ltr r
deyipeed.,v air. Ct La et a riya 4 vite a) tn :
Veda > 0 iy, Bre oted Abt in iat hs
) eer hat Co]

7 anar’

~

; ; “on oo ae
bu! pumice ae ea

se
APPENDIXES
Appendix |

SMITHSONIAN FOREIGN CURRENCY PROGRAM
GRANTS AWARDED IN FISCAL YEAR 1970

Archeology and Related Disciplines

Orrick oF ANTHROPOLOGY, SMITHSONIAN MusEuM oF NatTurRAL History,
WasuinctTon, D.C. Survey of disappearing traditional crafts, industries, and
Technologies in Ceylon.

University or Hawau, Hono_tutu, Hawan. Ceylon archeological survey.

UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON, SEATTLE, WASHINGTON. A study of the relations
between kinship structure and economic organizations among the Veddas of
Ceylon.

AMERICAN INSTITUTE OF INDIAN STUDIES, PHILADELPHIA, PENNSYLVANIA. Sup-
port for American Institute of Indian Studies research fellowships.

University oF Missourt, Cotumsia, Missourt. To complete investigations
of ancient glass manufacturing sites.

AMERICAN SCHOOLS OF ORIENTAL RESEARCH, CAMBRIDGE, MASSACHUSETTS.
Archeological activity of the American Schools of Oriental Research.

Carnecig Museum, PirrspurGH, PENNSYLVANIA. Excavations of a Philistine
city at Ashdod.

JERUSALEM SCHOOL OF ARCHEOLOGY OF THE HEBREW UNION COLLEGE, CIN-
CINNATI, Onto. Excavations of an archeologocial site at Gezer, Israel.

OFFICE OF ANTHROPOLOGY, SMITHSONIAN Museum oF NaturRAL History,
WasuincTon, D.C. Archeological investigations of southern Palestinian cul-
ture at Tel Jemmah.

University oF Arizona, Tucson, Artzona. A program for research and train-
ing in prehistoric archeology in Israel: Excavations at the site of Tabun.

AMERICAN SCHOOLS OF ORIENTAL RESEARCH, CAMBRIDGE, MASSACHUSETTS.
Expeditions to Tel El] Hesi and Khirget Shema.

University or Missourt, CoLtumsBiaA, Missouri. Excavations at Tel Anafa
(Shamli), Israel.

University oF ILitnois, URBANA, ILLINo1s. The Maqam tradition in theory
and practice.

OrFIcE oF ANTHROPOLOGY, SMITHSONIAN MusreuM oF NatuRAL History,
WasuincTon, D.C. Survey of disappearing traditional crafts, industries, and
technologies in Pakistan.

DuMBARTON Oaks CENTER FOR BYZANTINE Stupies, WASHINGTON, D.C. A
corpus of ancient mosaics of Tunisia.

AMERICAN RESEARCH CENTER IN Ecypt, INc., PRINCETON, NEw JERSEY. Sup-
port for the activities of the American Research Center in Egypt (ARCE).

149
150 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1970

UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA, PHILADELPHIA, PENNSYLVANIA. The Akhnaten
temple project.

BROOKLYN COLLEGE OF THE CiTy UNIVERSITY OF NEW York, BROOKLYN,
New York. Excavations at Starcevo, Yugoslavia.

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA AT Los ANGELES, Los ANGELES, CALIFORNIA.
Excavations of a Neolithic stratified settlement at Anzibegovo in Eastern
Macedonia, Yugoslavia.

DENISON UNIVERSITY, GRANVILLE, Ouro. Archeological excavations at Sirmium.

University oF Texas at Austin, Texas. Archeological excavations at Stobi.

DoucLass CoLieGe, RutTcers University, New Brunswick, NEw JERSEY.
Excavations at Salona.

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA AT Los ANGELES, Los ANGELES, CALIFORNIA.
The Early Bronze Age cemetery at Mokrin. (Publication costs only.)

University oF MINNESOTA, MINNEAPOLIS, MINNESOTA. Excavations of Dio-
cletians palace, Split, Yugoslavia.

INDIANA UNIvERSITY, BLOOMINGTON, INDIANA. Excavations at Nin, Dalmatia,
Yugoslavia.

DuMmBARTON Oaks CENTER FOR BYZANTINE StTupDIES, WASHINGTON, D.C.
Medieval Bargala.

UnIversITY OF PITTSBURGH, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIA. Early food-produc-
ing cultures in Yugoslavia.

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA AT Los ANGELES, Los ANGELES, CALIFORNIA.
Excavations at Senta (Velebit).

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA AT Los ANGELES, Los ANGELES, CALIFORNIA.
Archeological investigations at the Iron Age sites in Batina and Dalj.

Systematic and Environmental Biology
(Including Paleobiology)

SMITHSONIAN NATIONAL Zoo, WASHINGTON, D.C. Studies on the behavior and
ecology of the Ceylonese elephant.

SMITHSONIAN MuseuM oF NatTuraAL History, WASHINGTON, D.C. A revision
of Trimen’s Handbook to the Flora of Ceylon.

DEPARTMENT OF ENTOMOLOGY, SMITHSONIAN Museum oF NaturRAL History,
WASHINGTON, D.C. Biosystematic studies of the insects of Ceylon.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, WaAsHINGTON, D.C. Administration of Smith-
sonian sponsored projects in Ceylon.

SMITHSONIAN NaTIONAL Zoo, WASHINGTON, D.C. The comparative ecology
and behavior of Ceylonese Cercopithecidae.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, WASHINGTON, D.C. Binational symposium to assess
impact of Smithsonian-supported research on Ceylonese national science
objectives.

University oF MicuicAN, ANN Arsor, MicHIGAN. Cytological studies of
Indian mollusks.

SMITHSONIAN EcoLtocy ProGrRAM, WASHINGTON, D.C. Conference for the
International Union for the Conservation of Nature (1ucN).

SMITHSONIAN EcoLtoGy ProGRAM, WASHINGTON, D.C. Conference for the
International Council for Bird Preservation (1cBP).
APPENDIX 1. SMITHSONIAN FOREIGN CURRENCY PROGRAM 151

SmITHSONIAN EcoLocy ProGRAM, WASHINGTON, D.C. Ecological research in
the Gir Forest.

YALE University, New Haven, Connecticut. Habitat relationships, numbers,
and distribution of wild ungulates in the Gir Forest, India.

DEPARTMENT OF VERTEBRATE ZOOLOGY, SMITHSONIAN MusEuM OF NATURAL
History, WASHINGTON, D.C. Migratory bird survey.

DEPARTMENT OF BOTANY, SMITHSONIAN MusEumM oF NatTurAu History,
Wasuincton, D.C. A flora of the Hassan District, Mysore State, India.

SMITHSONIAN OCEANOGRAPHY PROGRAM, WASHINGTON, D.C. Biota of the Red
Sea and Eastern Mediterranean.

SMITHSONIAN EcoLtocy ProcraM, WASHINGTON, D.C. Bird Banding and Avi-
faunal Survey.

UNIVERSITY OF THE STATE OF NEw York, SToNy Brook, Lone IsLtanp, NEw
York. A Study of the Eilat Coral Reef.

University oF Missourt, CotumsiA, Missouri. Ecology and behavior of ga-
zelles in Israel.

DEPARTMENT OF VERTEBRATE ZOOLOGY, SMITHSONIAN MusEuM oF NATURAL
History, WAsuincTon, D.C. A geographical and ecological study of the
mammals of Morocco.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION AND NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES, WASHING-
Ton, D.C. International Biological Program (1Bp) research, planning, and
training in the “excess” currency countries.

ForEIGN SCIENCE INFORMATION PROGRAM, WASHINGTON, D.C. Scientific trans-
lation services.

SMITHSONIAN OCEANOGRRAPHY PROGRAM, WASHINGTON, D.C. Support for the
Mediterranean Marine Sorting Center.

DEPARTMENT OF INVERTEBRATE ZOOLOGY, SMITHSONIAN MuseEuM OF NATURAL
History, WAsHINGTON, D.C. Studies on the systematics and physiological
ecology of Tunisian sponge communities.

UNIVERSITY OF CoLoraApo, BouLDER, CoLorapo. Paleontological investigations
in Tunisia.

SMITHSONIAN OCEANOGRAPHIC PROGRAM, WASHINGTON, D.C. International
Conference on Meiofauna. (Unanticipated extra costs. )

DEPARTMENT OF VERTEBRATE ZOOLOGY, SMITHSONIAN MusSEuUM OF NATURAL
History, WASHINGTON, D.C. A serological and ectoparasite survey of the
migratory birds of East Africa.

SMITHSONIAN OCEANOGRAPHY PROGRAM, WASHINGTON, D.C. Preparation of
plans and projects for refitting the research vessel Phykos.

DEPARTMENT OF INVERTEBRATE ZOOLOGY, SMITHSONIAN MuSsEUM OF NATURAL
History, WAsHINGTON, D.C. International Conference on the Biology of
Sipunculids.

Astrophysics and Earth Sciences

SMITHSONIAN ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY, CAMBRIDGE, MASSACHUSETTS.
Continuation of a study of cosmic gamma rays.

SMITHSONIAN ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY, CAMBRIDGE, MASSACHUSETTS.
Multicolor photoelectric observations of flare stars at the Uttar Pradesh State
Observatory and analysis of flare-star observations.
152 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1970

SMITHSONIAN ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY, CAMBRIDGE, MASSACHUSETTS.
A study of the collective behavior of self-gravitating systems.

SMITHSONIAN ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY, CAMBRIDGE, MASSACHUSETTS.
The construction of stellar models of evolving stars.

SMITHSONIAN ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY, CAMBRIDGE, MASSACHUSETTS.
An astronomical observing program in Israel.

ForEIGN SCIENCE INFORMATION PROGRAM, NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION,
WASHINGTON, D.C. (on behalf of Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory).
Translation of the Polish Copernican studies of L. A. Birkenmajer.

Museum Programs

DEPARTMENT OF ANTHROPOLOGY, SMITHSONIAN MusEuM OF NaTurRAL His-
ToRY, WASHINGTON, D.C. Exhibit of Bhutanese Art.

Director GENERAL OF MUSEUMS, SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, WASHINGTON,
D.C. Support for Science Museum Conference at Bangalore.

Boston Museum oF Fine Arts, Boston, MAssacHusetTTs. Exhibition of
Egyptian royal sculpture.
Appendix 2

MEMBERS OF THE SMITHSONIAN COUNCIL
30) INE 197.0

Mr. H. Harvarp Arnason. Art Historian. New York City.

Dr. HerMAN R. Branson. President, Central State University, Wilberforce,
Ohio.

ProFEessor Frep R. EccAn. Department of Anthropology, University of Chi-
cago, Chicago, Illinois.

Proressor Donatp S. FARNER. Chairman, Department of Zoology, University
of Washington, Seattle.

Proressor ANTHONY N. B. Garvan. Chairman, Department of American Civil-
ization, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia.

Dr. Murray GELL-Mann. Robert Andrews Millikan Professor of Theoretical
Physics, California Institute of Technology, Pasadena.

Dr. Puitip HanpLer. President, National Academy of Sciences, Washington,
D.C.

Proressor G. Evetyn Hutcurnson. Sterling Professor of Zoology, Yale Uni-
versity, New Haven, Connecticut.

ProFEessor JAN LaRue. Department of Music, Graduate School of Arts and
Sciences, New York University, New York City.

Mr. Currrorp L. Lorp. President, Hofstra University, Hempstead, Long Island,
New York.
ProFEssor CuHarves D. MICcHENER. Watkins Distinguished Professor of Ento-
mology and of Systematics and Ecology, University of Kansas, Lawrence.
Dr. Peter M. MitiMAn. National Research Council of Canada, Ottawa, On-
tario. Meteoritic Specialist.

Mr. Extinc E. Morison. Professor of History and Master, Timothy Dwight
College, Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut.

Proressor NorMAN Houmes Pearson. Professor of English and American
Studies, Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut.

Mr. Gorpon N. Ray. President, John Simon Guggenheim Memorial Founda-
tion, New York City.

Mr. ANDRE SCHIFFRIN. Managing Director, Pantheon Books, New York City.

PRoFESSOR Cyrit STANLEY SMITH. Institute Professor, Massachusetts Institute
of Technology, Cambridge.

ProFEssor JoHN D. Spixes. Professor of Biology, College of Letters and
Science, University of Utah, Salt Lake City.

PROFESSOR STEPHEN E. Toutmin. Department of Philosophy, Michigan State
University, East Lansing.

153
154 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1970

Dr. Ratner ZANGERL. Field Museum of Natural History, Roosevelt Road and

Lakeshore Drive, Chicago, Illinois.
PRoFESSOR WARREN H. WacneR, Jr. Department of Botany and Matthaei Bo-
tanical Gardens, The University of Michigan, Ann Arbor.
Appendix 3

SMITHSONIAN ASSOCIATES MEMBERSHIP
1969-1970

Our deepest gratitude is extended to our members for their interest and
generous support of the Smithsonian Associates this year, and especially to those
listed below, who have contributed amounts in excess of the membership dues

Founder Members
($1000 and up)

The Honorable and Mrs. David
K. E. Bruce

Mrs. Morris Cafritz

The Honorable Dougias Dillon

Mr. Charles E. Eckles

The Honorable and Mrs. John
Clifford Folger

Mr. Cornelius Van S. Roosevelt
Mr. Thomas J. Watson, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. P. A. B. Widener
Mr. Christian A. Zabriskie

Mr. and Mrs. Sidney S. Zlotnick

Sustaining Members
($500 and up)

Mrs. Theodore Babbitt

Mr. Joel Barlow

Mr. William R. Biggs

Mr. George A. Binney

Mrs. L. Roosevelt Bramwell

Mr. A. Marvin Braverman

Mr. John Nicholas Brown

Mr. Bertram F. Brummer

Mr. Leon Campbell, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Leonard Carmichael

Clarke and Rapuano Foundation
(Mr. Gilmore D. Clarke)

Mrs. Frances A. Davila

Mr. Newell W. Ellison

Mr. and Mrs. Richard S. Friedman

Mr. Richard E. Fuller

Mr. and Mrs. Hy Garfinkel

Mr. George A. Garret

Mr. Crawford H. Greenewalt

Mr. and Mrs. Gilbert C. Greenway

Mr. William H. Greer, Jr.

Mr. Melville B. Grosvenor

Mr. Gilbert Hahn

Mr. Laurence Harrison

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph H. Hirshhorn

Mr. Philip Johnson

Miss Brenda Kuhn

Mr. Harold F. Linder

Colonel and Mrs. Leon Mandel

Mr. and Mrs. J. Willard Marriott

Mr. William McC. Martin, Jr.

Lieutenant Commander and Mrs.
P. J. Maveety

Mr. and Mrs. Paul Mellon

155
156

Miss Katherine A. A. Murphy

Neuberger Foundation Inc.
(Roy R. and Marie S. Neuberger)

Duke of Northumberland

Mrs. K. D. Owen

Dr. and Mrs. Melvin M. Payne

Miss Lucy M. Pollio

Mrs. Merriweather Post

Mr. Peter Powers

Miss Elsie Howland Quinby

Dr. and Mrs. S. Dillon Ripley

Mr .and Mrs. Seymour J. Rubin

Mr. H. C. Seherr-Thoss

SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1970

Mrs. Jouett Shouse

Dr. and Mrs. Carl Swan Shultz
Mr. and Mrs. Robert H. Smith
Mr. Robert T. Smith

Mr. and Mrs. Bertrand L. Taylor III
Mrs. Clark W. Thompson

Mrs. Carll Tucker

Mr. Alexander O. Vietor

Mr. and Mrs. John W. Warner
Dr. Alexander Wetmore

Mr. and Mrs. W. Bradley Willard
Mrs. Rose Saul Zalles

Contributing Members
($100 and up)

Mrs. Howard Ahmanson
Mr. and Mrs. John W. Auchincloss
Mrs. Robert Low Bacon
Mr. and Mrs. James C. H. Bonbright
Mr. and Mrs. John F. Boyd
Mr. Maxwell Brace
Mr. and Mrs. Montgomery S. Bradley
Mr. J. Bruce Bredin
The Honorable William A. M. Burden
Mrs. Jackson Burke
Mr. and Mrs. W. H. Calfee
Mr. and Mrs. G. Howland Chase
Mrs. Priscilla Meek Christy
Mr. and Mrs. David Sanders Clark
Mr. Thomas G. Corcoran
General Jacob L. Devers
Mr. and Mrs. Ewen C. Dingwall
Mr. and Mrs. Bryan M. Eagle
Mr. and Mrs. Charles Eames
Mr. and Mrs. Robert B. Eichholz
Mr. and Mrs. Waldron Faulkner
The Honorable and Mrs. Edward
Foley
The Honorable and Mrs.
Peter Frelinghuysen
Mr. W. E. Gathright
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph T. Geuting, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. T. K. Glennan
Mrs. Katharine Graham

Dr. Sheila H. Gray

Mr. and Mrs. Homer Gudelsky

Miss Elisabeth Houghton

Mrs. Edward F. Hutton

Mr. and Mrs. Anthony A. Lapham

Mrs. Newbold Legendre

Mr. and Mrs. Jack L. Leon

Mrs. Demarest Lloyd

Mrs. J. Noel Macey

Mr. and Mrs. George C. McGhee

Mr. and Mrs. Carl J. Mulert, Jr.

Mr. Gerson Nordlinger, Jr.

Mr. Gyo Obata

Mrs. Carolyn C. Onufrak

‘The Honorable and Mrs. Jefferson
Patterson

Mr. Charles Emory Phillips

Dr. and Mrs. Ernest G. Rafey

Mr. James H. Ripley

Mrs. John Farr Simmons

Dr. and Mrs. T. Dale Stewart

Mrs. Edward C. Sweeney

Martha Frick Symington, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. J. A. Toro

Mr. and Mrs. A. Buel Trowbridge

Mr. and Mrs. William S. Weedon

Mr. and Mrs. J. Burke Wilkinson

Mr. and Mrs. Mark Winkler
APPENDIX 3. SMITHSONIAN ASSOCIATES MEMBERSHIP

Supporting Members
($50 and up)

The Reverend and Mrs. F. Everett
Abbott

Mr. and Mrs. Stanley N. Allan

Mrs. Carol P. Banks

Mr. and Mrs. Emanuel Boasberg III

The Honorable Frances P. Bolton

Mr. and Mrs. Paul C. Bruning

Mrs. Linda C. Burgess

Mr. John H. Burns

Mr. and Mrs. Horace W. Busby, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Frank Caplan

Miss Joan Collett

Mr. and Mrs. B. C. Connelly

Mrs. Chester Dale

Captain and Mrs. Robert F. Doss

Mrs. Albert H. Ely

Commander and Mrs. William B.
Fisher

Mrs. Julius Fleischmann

Mr. John W. Galston

Mr. and Mrs. Melvin Gelman

Dr. and Mrs. Arthur Goldsmith

Mrs. Nancy K. Gullett

Mr. and Mrs. W. Averell Harriman

Mr. and Mrs. Louis Hausman

Mr. and Mrs. Randolph A. Hearst

Dr. and Mrs. K. R. Henery Logan

Mr. and Mrs. James H. Hughes

Mr. and Mrs. James D. Hurd

Mrs. George C. Keiser

Mr. J. A. King

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Liggett

Dr. and Mrs. Charles U. Lowe

Mrs. Charles Hamilton Maddox
Miss Katherine Magraw
Mrs. Isabel C. Mahaffie

Mr. and Mrs. Gershom R. Makepeace
Major and Mrs. George S. Mansfield

Dr. and Mrs. Francis Mayle, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. John H. McLaren

Dr. and Mrs. Edgar H. McPeak

Mr. and Mrs. Mylon Merriam

Mrs. E. P. Moore

Mrs. W. Gillespie Moore

Miss Lee Muth

The Reverend and Mrs. Philip R.
Newell

Mr. Estrada Raul Oyuela

Miss Ruth Uppercu Paul

Mrs. Duncan Phillips

Mr. Donald H. Price

Mrs. Albert J. Redway

Dr. Michael J. Reilly

Mr. R. D. Remley

Mrs. John Barry Ryan

Mr. and Mrs. Herbert Salzman

Miss E. R. Saul

Dr. and Mrs. Saul Schwartzbach

Mr. and Mrs. Richard R. Sigmon

Mr. and Mrs. Douglas R. Smith

Mr. and Mrs. Murray Socolof

Mrs. Sally Sweetland

Mr. and Mrs. E. Russell True, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Robert B. Watson

Mrs. Orme Wilson

Mrs. Leslie H. Wyman
Appendix 4

STAFF OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

30 JUNE 1970

Secretary's Office and Related Activities

The Secretary
Executive Assistant
Under Secretary
Special Assistant
Administrative Officer
Director General of Museums
and Director, United States
National Museum
Assistant Secretary (Science)
Assistant Secretary (History and Art)
Assistant Secretary (Public Service)
Treasurer
Assistant Treasurer
Director, Office of Programming
and Budget
Chief Accountant
Contracting Officer, Contracts
Office
Director, Office of Academic Programs
General Counsel
Assistant General Counsel
Director, Office of Personnel and
Management Resources
Special Projects, Office of the Secretary
Special Assistant to the Secretary
Director, Office of Development
Equal Employment Opportunity
Officer
Editor, Joseph Henry Papers
Chief, Administrative Systems Division
Director, Buildings Management
Department

1 Effective 21 May 1970.
* Effective 18 January 1970.
3 Effective 2 September 1969.

158

S. Dillon Ripley
John H. Dobkin
James Bradley?
Robert Engle
Dorothy Rosenberg

Frank A. Taylor
Sidney R. Galler
Charles Blitzer
William W. Warner
T. Ames Wheeler
Betty J. Morgan

John F. Jameson
Allen S. Goff

Elbridge O. Hurlbut
Philip C. Ritterbush
Peter G. Powers
Alan Ullberg?

Leonard B. Pouliot

Richard H. Howland
Lynford E. Kautz?

Joseph A. Kennedy
Nathan Reingold
Ann S. Campbell

Andrew F. Michaels
APPENDIX 4. STAFF OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Chief, Supply Division Fred G. Barwick
Chief, Photographic Services Division O. H. Greeson
Chief, Travel Services Office Betty V. Strickler
Honorary Research Associates Charles G. Abbot, Secretary
Emeritus
Leonard Carmichael, Secretary
Emeritus

Paul H. Oehser
Alexander Wetmore, Secretary

Emeritus
Honorary Fellow John A. Graf
SCIENCE
Assistant Secretary Sidney R. Galler
Special Assistants Helen H. Hayes

Harold J. Michaelson

National Museum of Natural History

Director Richard S. Cowan
Assistant Director Paul K. Knierim
Assistant to Director (ADP) James F. Mello*
Special Assistant, Tropical Biology F. Raymond Fosberg
Botanist Marie-Helene Sachet
Administrative Officers Mabel A. Byrd

John J. Prenzel®
John C. Townsend®

Special Assistant to the Director Joseph C. Britton?
Anthropology
Chairman Clifford Evans®
Senior Physical Anthropologist T. Dale Stewart
Senior Archeologist Waldo R. Wedel
Senior Ethnologist John C. Ewers
Archivist Margaret C. Blaker
Latin American Anthropology
Supervisor and Associate Curator Robert M. Laughlin
Curator Clifford Evans
Associate Curator William H. Crocker
Old World Anthropology
Supervisor and Curator Gordon D. Gibson
Curator Saul H. Riesenberg

* Appointed 11 January 1970.

° Transferred to Department of Defense September 1969.
6 Appointed 28 June 1970.

7 Resigned 26 June 1970.

8 Effective 25 January 1970.

159
160

Associate Curators

North American Anthropology
Supervisor and Curator
Curator
Associate Curator

Physical Anthropology
Supervisor and Curator
Assistant Curator
Associate Curator

Honorary

Botany
Chairman
Senior Botanist
Phanerogams
Supervisor and Associate Curator
Curators

® Resigned 31 July 1969.
10 Appointed 21 September 1969.
11 Effective 2 April 1970.

SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1970

Eugene I. Knez
Gus W. Van Beek
William B. Trousdale

Richard B. Woodbury?
William C. Sturtevant
Paul H. Voorhis

J. Lawrence Angel

Donald J. Ortner?!®

Lucile E. St. Hoyme

Hans-George Bandi (Archeology)

W. Montague Cobb (Physical
Anthropology )

Henry B. Collins (Archeology)

Wilson Duff (Ethnology)

Roger I. Eddy (Ethnology)

Marcus S. Goldstein (Physical
Anthropology)

Sister Inez Hilger (Ethnology)

C. G. Holland (Archeology)

Neil M. Judd (Archeology)

Richard T. Koritzer (Physical
Anthropology )

Ralph K. Lewis (Archeology)

Olga Linares de Sapir (Archeology)

Betty J. Meggers (Archeology)

Philleo Nash (Ethnology)

Victor A. Nunez Regueiro
(Archeology)

Mary Slusser (Archeology)

Wilhelm G. Solheim (Archeology)

Matthew W. Stirling (Archeology)

Douglas Taylor (Ethnology)

William J. Tobin (Physical
Anthropology )

Theodore A. Wertime (Archeology)

William S. Willis, Jr. (Ethnology)

Edwin F. Wilmsen (Archeology)

Edward S. Ayensu!!
Lyman B. Smith

Dan H. Nicolson
John J. Wurdack
Velva E. Rudd
APPENDIX 4. STAFF OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION 161

Associate Curator
Assistant Curator

Ferns
Supervisor and Associate Curator
Curator
Grasses
Supervisor and Associate Curator
Cryptogams
Supervisor and Associate Curator
Curator
Plant Anatomy
Supervisor and Associate Curator
Associate Curator
Fungi!”
Research Associates

Honorary

Wallace R. Ernst
Stanwyn G. Shetler
Dieter C. Wasshausen

David B. Lellinger
Conrad V. Morton

Thomas R. Soderstrom

Harold E. Robinson
Mason E. Hale, Jr.

Richard H. Eyde
Edward S. Ayensu

Chester R. Benjamin

John A. Stevenson

Francis A. Uecker

John L. Cunningham

Paul Lewis Lentz

Marie L. Farr

Kent H. McKnight

L. R. Batra

Andrew W. Archer (Flowering
Plants)

Paul S. Conger (Diatomaceae)

José Cuatrecasas (Flora of Tropical
South America)

James A. Duke (Flora of Panama)

Emily W. Emmart (Plants of
Mexico)

F. Raymond Fosberg (Tropical
Biology)

Howard S. Gentry (Economic Plants
of Northwestern Mexico)

William H. Hathaway (Flora of
Central America)

Frederick J. Hermann (North
American Flora)

Elbert L. Little, Jr. (Dendrology)

Alicia Lourteig (Neotropical
Botany)

Floyd A. McClure (Bamboos) !%

Kittle F. Parker (Compositae)

Julian C. Patino (Flora of
Colombia)

Clyde F. Reed (Ferns)

James L. Reveal (Ferns)

? National fungus collections are curated by Department of Agriculture staff.

13 Died 15 April 1970.
162

Honorary—Continued

Entomology
Chairman
Senior Entomologist
Neuropteroids
Supervisor and Curator
Lepidoptera and Diptera
Supervisor and Associate Curator
Associate Curator
Assistant Curator
Coleoptera
Supervisor and Associate Curator
Curator
Hemiptera and Hymenoptera
Supervisor and Assistant Curator
Associate Curator
Myriapoda and Arachnida
Supervisor and Curator
Honorary

Invertebrate Zoology
Chairman
Senior Zoologists

Crustacea
Supervisor and Curator
Curators

Associate Curator

14 Retired 30 April 1970.

SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1970

Marie L. Solt (Melastomataceae)

William L. Stern (Plant Anatomy)

Edward E. Terrell (Phanerogams)

Egbert H. Walker (Myrsinaceae,
East Asian Flora)

Karl V. Krombein
J. F. Gates Clarke

Oliver S. Flint, Jr.

Donald R. Davis
W. Donald Duckworth
William D. Field

Paul J. Spangler
Oscar L. Cartwright!*

Gerald I. Stage?®
Richard C. Froeschner

Ralph E. Crabill, Jr.

William H. Anderson (Coleoptera)

Doris H. Blake (Coleoptera)

Franklin S. Blanton (Diptera)

Frank L. Campbell (Insect
Physiology )

Oscar L. Cartwright (Coleoptera)

K. C. Emerson (Mallophaga)

Frank M. Hull (Diptera)

William L. Jellison (Siphonaptera,
Anoplura)

Harold F. Loomis (Myriapoda)

Carl F. W. Muesebeck
(Hymenoptera)

Thomas E. Snyder (Isoptera)

Robert Traub (Siphonaptera)

Raymond B. Manning
Fenner A. Chase, Jr.
Horton H. Hobbs, Jr.
Harald A. Rehder

Thomas E. Bowman
J. Laurens Barnard
Louis S. Kornicker

Roger F. Cressey

15 Appointment terminated 30 March 1970. Replaced by Richard C. Froesch-

ner | July 1970.
APPENDIX 4. STAFF OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION 163

Echinoderms
Supervisor and Curator
Associate Curator

Worms
Supervisor and Associate Curator
Curators

Associate Curator
Mollusks
Supervisor and Associate Curator
Curator
Associate Curator
Honorary

Mineral Sciences
Chairman
Curator
Meteorites
Supervisor and Associate Curator
Chemist
Curator
Geochemist
Chemist
Mineralogy
Supervisor and Associate Curator
Petrology
Supervisor and Associate Curator
Honorary

David L. Pawson
Klaus Ruetzler

W. Duane Hope
Meredith L. Jones
Marian H. Pettibone
Mary E. Rice

Clyde F. E. Roper

Joseph Rosewater

Joseph P. E. Morrison

Frederick M. Bayer (Lower
Invertebrates )

Willard W. Becklund
(Helminthology )

S. Stillman Berry (Mollusks)

J. Bruce Bredin (Biology)

Isabel C. Canet (Crustacea)

Maybelle H. Chitwood (Worms)

Ailsa M. Clark (Marine
Invertebrates )

Elisabeth Deichmann (Echinoderms)

Mary Gardiner (Echinoderms)

Roman Kenk (Worms)

Anthony J. Provenzano, Jr.
(Crustacea )

Waldo L. Schmitt (Marine
Invertebrates )

Frank R. Schwengel (Mollusks)

I. G. Sohn (Crustacea)

Donald F. Squires (Echinoderms)

Gilbert L. Voss (Mollusks)

Mrs. Mildred S. Wilson (Copepod
Crustacea )

Brian H. Mason
George S. Switzer

Roy S. Clarke, Jr.
Joseph A. Nelson
Kurt Fredriksson
Robert F. Fudali
Eugene Jarosewich

Paul E. Desautels
William G. Melson

Howard J. Axon (Meteorites)
Edward P. Henderson (Meteorites)
164

Honorary—Continued

Paleobiology
Chairman
Senior Paleobiologists

Invertebrate Paleontology
Supervisor and Curator
Curators

Associate Curator
Staff Specialist (Electron-microscopy )
Vertebrate Paleontology
Supervisor and Curator
Curator
Paleobotany
Supervisor and Associate Curator
Associate Curators

Sedimentology

Supervisor and Curator
Associate Curator
Honorary

Invertebrate Paleontology

16 Effective 1 October 1969.

SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1970

John B. Jago (Mineralogy)
Peter Leavens (Mineralogy)
Rosser Reeves (Mineralogy)
Thomas E. Simkin (Petrology)
Geoffrey Thompson (Petrology )
Harry Winston (Mineralogy)

Porter M. Kier
G. Arthur Cooper
C. Lewis Gazin

Martin A. Buzas
Richard S. Boardman
Alan H. Cheetham
Erle G. Kauffman
Richard Cifelli
Richard M. Benson
Thomas R. Waller
Kenneth M. Towe

Clayton E. Ray
Nicholas Hotton III

Walter H. Adey?®
Leo J. Hickey
Francis M. Hueber

Daniel J. Stanley
Jack W. Pierce

Arthur J. Boucot
Anthony C. Coates
C. Wythe Cooke

J. Thomas Dutro
Robert M. Finks
Mackenzie Gordon, Jr.
Richard E. Grant
John W. Huddle
Ralph W. Imlay
Harry S. Ladd

N. Gary Lane
Kenneth E. Lohman
Sergius H. Mamay
William A. Oliver, Jr.
Axel A. Olsson

John Pojeta, Jr.
Norman F. Sohl
Margaret Ruth Todd
Wendell P. Woodring
APPENDIX 4. STAFF OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION 165

Honorary—Continued
Vertebrate Paleontology

Sedimentology

Vertebrate Zoology
Chairman

Fishes
Supervisor and Curator
Curators

Associate Curator
Reptiles and Amphibians
Supervisor and Curator
Associate Curator
Birds
Supervisor and Curator
Associate Curator
Mammals
Supervisor and Curator
Curator
Associate Curator
Honorary

17 Effective 1 July 1969.
18 Effective 2 November 1969.

Ellis L. Yochelson
Douglas Emlong

Frank C. Whitmore, Jr.
Gilbert Kelling
Frederic R. Siegel

George W. Watson

Robert H. Gibbs, Jr.17
Ernest A. Lachner
Victor G. Springer
Stanley H. Weitzman
William R. Taylor

James A. Peters
George R. Zug

Richard L. Zusi
Paul Slud

Charles O. Handley

Henry W. Setzer

Richard W. Thorington?®

John W. Aldrich (Birds)

Richard C. Banks (Birds)

William Belton (Birds)

James E. Bohlke (Fishes)

Leonard Carmichael (Psychology,
Animal Behavior)

Daniel M. Cohen (Fishes)

Bruce B. Collette (Fishes)

John F. Eisenberg (Mammals)

Herbert Friedmann (Birds)

Crawford H. Greenewalt (Birds)

Arthur M. Greenhall (Mammals)

Philip S. Humphrey (Birds)

David H. Johnson (Mammals)

Clyde J. Jones (Mammals)

Gwilm S. Jones (Mammals)

E. V. Komarek (Mammals)

Roxie C. Laybourne (Birds)

Richard H. Manville (Mammals)

J. A. J. Meester (Mammals)

Edgardo Mondolfi (Mammals)

Russell E. Mumford (Mammals)

Dioscoro S. Rabor (Birds)

S. Dillon Ripley (Birds)

Leonard P. Schultz (Fishes)
166

Honorary—Continued

SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1970

Frank J. Schwartz (Fishes)
Alexander Wetmore (Birds)
David B. Wingate (Birds)

National Air and Space Museum

Acting Director
Acting Assistant Director
(Aeronautics )
Curator (Aircraft Propulsion)
Assistant Director (Astronautics)
Assistant Director (Information)
Advisory Board

Honorary

Frank A. Taylor?

Louis S. Casey

Robert B. Meyer

Frederick C. Durant III

Ernest W. Robischon

S. Dillon Ripley, Chairman
(ex officio)

Major General Nils O. Ohman,
USAF

Vice Admiral Thomas F. Connolly,
USN

Brigadier General James L. Collins,
USA

Brigadier General H. S. Hill, usmc

Rear Admiral Roderick Y. Edwards,
USCG

Julian Scheer, NASA

General Gustav Lundquist, FAA

(Three civilian vacancies)

Olive Ann Beech

William E. Hall

Elwood R. Quesada

Astrophysical Observatory

Director

Assistant Director (Science)
Assistant Director (Management)
Scientific Staff

19 Effective 10 September 1969.
20 Appointed 12 January 1970.

Fred L. Whipple
Charles A. Lundquist
Robert V. Bartnik?°
Arthur C. Allison
Eugene H. Avrett
Eric Becklin

Prabhu Bhatnagar
Nathaniel P. Carleton
Frederic Chaffee
Jerome R. Cherniack
Giuseppe Colombo
Matthias F. Comerford
Allan F. Cook
APPENDIX 4. STAFF OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Scientific Staff—Continued

Alex Dalgarno
Robert J. Davis
James C. DeFelice
William A. Deutschman
John S. Dickey, Jr.
Dale F. Dickinson
Giovanni G. Fazio
Edward L. Fireman
M. Raymond Flannery
Giuseppe Forti

Fred A. Franklin
Edward M. Gaposchkin
Owen Gingerich
Antanas Girnius
Mario D. Grossi
Henry F. Helmken
Paul W. Hodge

Luigi G. Jacchia
Wolfgang Kalkofen
Yoshihide Kozai
David Latham
Myron Lecar

Carlton G. Lehr
Martin Levine

Hiram Levy II

A. Edward Lilley
Richard E. McCrosky
Brian G. Marsden
Ursula B. Marvin
Naresh C. Mathur
George H. Megrue
Donald H. Menzel
Lawrence W. Mertz
Henri E. Mitler

Paul A. Mohr

Carl S. Nilsson
Yasushi Nozawa
Robert W. Noyes
Costas Papaliolios
Cecilia H. Payne-Gaposhkin
Michael R. Pearlman
Douglas T. Pitman
Annette Posen
Harrison E. Radford
George Rieke

George B. Rybicki
Winfield W. Salisbury
Rudolph E. Schild
Mario R. Schaffner
Ladislav Sehnal

167
168 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1970

Scientific Staff—Continued Zdenek Sekanina
Chen-Yuan Shao
I. Shapiro
Jack W. Slowey
Richard B. Southworth
Gert Spannagel
Stephen E. Strom
Wesley A. Traub
Robert Vessot
Richard B. Wattson
George Weiffenbach
Trevor C. Weekes
Charles A. Whitney
John A. Wood
Frances W. Wright
Consultants John Danziger
Salah E. Hamid
Kurt Lambeck
Nirumpama Raghaven
Stanley Ross
Robert Stein
Karen Strom
George Veis
Natarajan Visvanathan

Fellows David R. Hearn
Noam Sack
Executive Director, Central Bureau for
Satellite Geodesy Jan Rolff
Director, Central Bureau for
Astronomical Telegrams Brian G. Marsden

Smithsonian ‘Tropical Research Institute

Director Martin H. Moynihan
Deputy Director Edward H. Kohn
Assistant Director, Marine Biology Ira Rubinoff
Administrative Officer Adela Gomez
Biologists Robert L. Dressler

Peter W. Glynn
Egbert Leigh
A. Stanley Rand
Michael H. Robinson
Roberta W. Rubinoff
Neal G. Smith
Honorary Charles F. Bennett, Jr.
John F. Eisenberg
Carmen Glynn
Carlos Lehmann
Robert H. MacArthur
APPENDIX 4. STAFF OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Honorary—Continued

Giles W. Mead
Ernst Mayr
Barbara Robinson
Patricio Sanchez
W. John Smith
C. C. Soper
Paulo Vanzolini
Martin Young

Radiation Biology Laboratory

Director
Assistant Director
Biochemists

Biologist
Geneticist
Anthropologist
Geochemist
Physicist

Plant Physiologists

William H. Klein
Walter A. Shropshire, Jr.
David L. Correll
Maurice M. Margulies
Robert L. Weintraub
Homer T. Hopkins
Elisabeth Gantt
Andrew W. Snope
Robert Stuckenrath
James Mielke

Bernard Goldberg
John Edwards

Victor B. Elstad
Rebecca Gettens
Leonard Price

National Zoological Park

Director
Assistant Director
Office of the Director
Pathologist
Engineer
Architect
Acting Head, Information and
Education
Administrative Officer
Special Assistant to the Director
Personnel Management Specialist
Department of Living Vertebrates
Manager, Bird Division
Manager, Reptile Division
Scientific Research Department
Resident Scientist
Zoologist
Veterinarian, Animal Health
Department

iH Reed
John Perry

Robert M. Sauer
Frank A. Maloney
Norman Melun

Sybil E. Hamlet
Joseph J. McGarry
Warren J. Iliff
Robert H. Artis

Kerry A. Muller
Jaren G. Horsley

John F. Eisenberg
Larry R. Collins

Clinton W. Gray
170 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1970

Chief, Operations and Maintenance
Department James H. McAllister
Associates in Ecology Helmut K. Buechner
S. Dillon Ripley
Lee M. Talbot

Research Associates Jean Delacour
Suzanne Ripley

Collaborators Richard Fiennes
F. M. Garner

Leonard Goss

J. Lear Grimmer
Carlton Herman
Werner P. Heuschle
Paul Leyhausen
Charles R. Schroeder
Constance P. Warner

Office of Environmental Sciences”

Director I. Eugene Wallen”?
Ecology Program
Director Dale W. Jenkins?’
Senior Scientist Helmut K. Buechner
Resident Ecologist Lee M. Talbot
Oceanography and Limnology Program
Director William I. Aron?*
Director, Mediterranean Marine
Sorting Center Robert P. Higgins
Director, Smithsonian Oceanographic
Sorting Center H. Adair Fehlmann
Oceanographer Dail W. Brown
Chesapeake Bay Center for Environmental Studies
Director Frank S. L. Williamson

Center for the Study of Man

Acting Director Sol Tax
Program Coordinator Sam Stanley

Center for Short-Lived Phenomena

Director Robert Citron

21 Established 28 October 1969.
22 Appointed 28 October 1969.
23 Appointed 8 March 1970.

24 Appointed 22 March 1970.
APPENDIX 4. STAFF OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Operations Manager
Assistant Operations Specialist
Event Research Specialist
Biology / Ecology
Environmental Information Specialist

David R. Squires?°
Richard P. DiBenedetto

Sarah P. Meselson
Wendy Quinones

History AND ART

Assistant Secretary
Director, Special Projects

Charles Blitzer
Ervin S. Duggan

National Museum of History and Technology

Director

Assistant Director

Assistant Director for Administration
Special Assistant to the Director
Administrative Officer

Senior Scientific Scholar

Research Assistants

Applied Arts
Chairman

Graphic Arts and Photography
Supervisor and Curator
Assistant Curators

Numismatics
Supervisor and Curator
Curator
Postal History
Supervisor and Curator
Associate Curator
Textiles
Supervisor and Curator
Associate Curator
Honorary

Cultural History
Chairman

Costume and Furnishings
Supervisor and Associate Curator
Assistant Curator

25 Effective 1 December 1969.
26 Effective 10 December 1969.
°7 Effective 5 April 1970.

Daniel J. Boorstin
Silvio A. Bedini
Robert G. Tillotson?®
Ladd E. Hamilton??
Virginia Beets
Robert P. Multhauf
Peter C. Marzio
Robert H. McNulty
James W. Seymore

Carl H. Scheele

Eugene Ostroff
Elizabeth M. Harris
David E. Haberstich

Vladimir Clain-Stefanelli
Elvira Clain-Stefanelli

Carl H. Scheele
Reidar Norby

Grace R. Cooper
Rita J. Adrosko

171

Emery May Norweb (Numismatics)

R. Henry Norweb (Numismatics)

C. Malcolm Watkins

Rodris C. Roth
Claudia B. Kidwell
ij2

Ethnic and Western Cultural History
Supervisor and Curator
Curator

Musical Instruments
Supervisor and Associate Curator
Associate Curator

Preindustrial History
Supervisor and Curator
Associate Curator

Honorary

Industries
Chairman
Senior Historian
Agriculture and Mining
Supervisor and Curator
Associate Curator
Ceramics and Glass
Supervisor and Curator
Curator
Manufacturing
Supervisor and Curator
Transportation
Supervisor and Curator
Curator
Honorary

National and Military History
Chairman

Historic Archeology
Supervisor and Curator

Military History
Supervisor and Curator
Associate Curator

Naval History
Supervisor and Curator
Curator

Political History
Supervisor and Associate Curator
Curator
Associate Curator

Honorary

Science and Technology
Chairman

Electricity and Nuclear Energy
Supervisor and Curator
Associate Curator

SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1970

Richard E. Ahlborn
C. Malcolm Watkins

John T. Fesperman
Cynthia A. Hoover

C. Malcolm Watkins

Anne C. Golovin

Mrs. Arthur M. Greenwood

Ivor Noél] Hume

Anne W. Murray (Curator
Emeritus, Costume)

Joan Pearson Watkins

Edward B. Jelks

John H. White, Jr.
Howard I. Chapelle

John T. Schlebecker
John N. Hoffman

Paul V. Gardner
J. Jefferson Miller II

Philip W. Bishop
John H. White, Jr.

Melvin H. Jackson
Hans Syz (Ceramics)

Edgar M. Howell
Mendel L. Peterson

Edgar M. Howell
Craddock R. Goins, Jr.

Philip K. Lundeberg
Harold D. Langley

Keith E. Melder

Margaret B. Klapthor

Herbert R. Collins

William Rea Furlong (Flag History)

Bernard S. Finn

Bernard S. Finn
Uta C. Merzbach
APPENDIX 4. STAFF OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION 173

Mechanical and Civil Engineering
Supervisor and Curator
Curators

Medical Sciences
Supervisor and Curator
Associate Curator

Physical Sciences
Supervisor and Associate Curator
Curator
Associate Curator

Honorary

Robert M. Vogel
Edwin A. Battison
Otto Mayr

Sami K. Hamarneh
Audrey B. Davis

Deborah J. Warner?®

Walter F. Cannon

Jon B. Eklund

Anthony R. Michaelis (Scientific
Instruments )

Derek J. De Solla Price (Scientific

Instruments )

Archives of American Art?®

Director

Deputy Director
Curator

Area Directors

William E. Woolfenden
Garnett McCoy

Arthur Breton

Butler Coleman (New York)
Robert Brown (Northeast)

Freer Gallery of Art

Director

Assistant Director

Curator, Chinese Art

Assistant Curator, Chinese Art

Head Conservator, Technical
Laboratory

Research Consultant, Technical
Laboratory

Research Assistant, Far Eastern
Ceramics

Research Assistant, Herzfeld Archives

Honorary Associates

John A. Pope
Harold P. Stern
Thomas Lawton
Hin-cheung Lovell

W. Thomas Chase
Rutherford J. Gettens
Josephine H. Knapp
Joseph M. Upton

Richard Edwards
Calvin French

National Collection of Fine Arts

Director
Assistant Director

*8 Effective 23 June 1970.

“9 Brought into Smithsonian 1 May 1970.

30 Appointed 5 January 1970.
31 Appointed 5 January 1970.

Joshua C. Taylor®®
Robert Tyler Davis*+
174

Administrative Officer

Registrar

Editor, Publication

Curator, Exhibition and Design

Associate Curator, 18th- and 19th-
Century Painting and Sculpture

Curator, Contemporary Painting and
Sculpture

Acting Curator, Prints and Drawings

Chief, International Art Program

Coordinator of Special Projects,
Renwick Gallery

Chief, Museum Programs

Photographer (NCFA-NPG)

Conservator (NCFA-NPG)

Librarian (NCFA-NPG)

National Collection of Fine Arts
Commission

Honorary Members

SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1970

Harry W. Zichterman
Elisabeth Strassmann

Georgia M. Rhoades

Harry Lowe

William H. Truettner

Adelyn D. Breeskin
Janet L. Flint
Lois A. Bingham

Donald R. McClelland
Susan C. Sollins
Lowell Kenyon
Charles H. Olin
William B. Walker

Charles H. Sawyer, Chairman
Walker Hancock, Vice Chairman
S. Dillon Ripley, Secretary
Leonard Baskin

William A. M. Burden

H. Page Cross

David E. Finley

Martin Friedman

Lloyd Goodrich

Walker Hancock

Bartlett H. Hayes, Jr.
August Heckscher
Thomas C. Howe

Mrs. J. Lee Johnson III
Samuel C. Johnson
Wilmarth S. Lewis

Henry P. MclIlhenny
Ogden M. Pleissner

Edgar P. Richardson
Charles H. Sawyer

Mrs. Otto L. Spaeth
Alexander Wetmore
Leonard Carmichael
Gilmore D. Clarke

Paul Mellon

Stow Wengenroth

Andrew Wyeth

National Portrait Gallery

Director
Assistant to the Director

82 Appointed 14 December 1969.

Marvin S. Sadik
Douglas E. Evelyn*?
APPENDIX 4. STAFF OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Historian

Curator

Assistant Curator
Keeper of the Catalogue
Museum Specialist (Art)

Senior Research Assistant (Art)

Research Assistant (History)
Research Assistant (History)

Librarian (NPG-NCFA)

Conservator (NPG-NCFA)

Beverly J. Cox
Robert G. Stewart
Monroe Fabian
Wilford P. Cole
Genevieve Stephenson
Mona Dearborn
Dorothy Brewer

Ann M. Schofield

William B. Walker
Charles H. Olin

75

Registrar Jon D. Freshour

John Nicholas Brown, Chairman
Whitfield J. Bell, Jr.

Catherine Drinker Bowen

Lewis Deschler

David E. Finley

Wilmarth S. Lewis

Edgar P. Richardson

Andrew Oliver

Jules D. Prown

Ex officio Chief Justice of the United States
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution
Director, National Gallery of Art

NPG Commission

Joseph H. Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden

Director Abram Lerner
Administrative Officer Joseph Sefekar**
Cynthia Jaffee McCabe
Historian Frances R. Shapiro

Associate Curator

Associate Registrars James J. Elias
Frank B. Gettings

Cooper-Hewitt Museum of Decorative Arts and Design

Director Lisa Suter Taylor*4
Administrator Christian Rohlfing
Alice Baldwin Beer
Elaine Evans Dee

Curator of Textiles

Curator of Drawings and Prints

Associate Curator of Decorative Arts Janet Thorpe
Librarian Edith Adams
Registrar Mary F. Blackwelder

33 Appointed 14 June 1970.
34 Effective 1 October 1969.
176 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1970

National Armed Forces Museum Advisory Board

Director John H. Magruder III

Assistant Director James S. Hutchins
Administrative Officer Miriam H. Uretz

Tecumseh Project Robert M. Calland

Collections John M. Elliott

Historian James J. Stokesberry

Registrar Lorene B. Mayo

Advisory Board John Nicholas Brown, Chairman

The Honorable Earl Warren
Secretary of Army
Secretary of Navy
Secretary of Air Force
Robert C. Baker
James H. Cassell, Jr.3°
David Lloyd Kreeger*®
William H. Perkins, Jr.*7

Ex officio Secretary of Defense

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution

Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars
Director Benjamin H. Read**
Deputy Director Albert Meisel
Office of American Studies
Director Wilcomb E. Washburn

Specialist in American Studies Harold K. Skramstad

Joseph Henry Papers

Editor Nathan Reingold
Assistant Editor Stuart Pierson
Staff Historian James M. Hobbins

35 Term expired 9 April 1970.
86 Term expired 9 April 1970.
87 Term expired 9 April 1970.
38 Appointed 30 March 1969.
APPENDIX 4. STAFF OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

SPECIAL MUSEUM PROGRAMS

Director General of Museums
Office of Director General
Assistant to Director General
Program Manager
Office of Exhibits Program
Chief
Assistant Chief
Special Projects
Exhibits Labels Editor
Administrative Officer

Chief, Natural History Laboratory

Assistant Chief
Chief of Design
Senior Museologist
Production Supervisor
Chief, History and Technology
Laboratory
Chief of Design
Production Supervisor
Conservation-Analytical Laboratory
Chief
Research Chemist
Office of the Registrar
Assistant Registrar
Smithsonian Institution Traveling
Exhibition Service
Chief
Administrative Assistant
Program Assistant
Registrar
Exhibits Coordinators

Frank A. Taylor

Peter C. Welsh
Lloyd E. Herman

John E. Anglim
James A. Mahoney
Eugene F. Behlen
Constance Minkin
James H. Jones
James A. Mahoney
Harry Hart
William F. Haase
A. Gilbert Wright
Frank Nelms

Benjamin W. Lawless
Richard S. Virgo
William W. Clark, Jr.

Robert M. Organ
Jacqueline S. Olin
Helena M. Weiss

William P. Haynes

Dorothy Van Arsdale
Eileen Rose

Frances P. Smyth
Terence Forbes

Anne R. Gossett
Jane Kinzler

PUBLIC SERVICE AND INFORMATION ACTIVITIES

Assistant Secretary
Deputy Assistant Secretary

William W. Warner
Robert W. Mason

Smithsonian Associates

Program Director
Business Manager
Special Events Assistant
Subscription Assistant

39 Effective 1 July 1969.
40 Appointed 1 June 1969.

Susan Hamilton*?
Marlin C. Johnson*®
Carolyn Amundson
Carolyn A. Hecker

177
178 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1970

Office of Public Affairs

Director Frederic M. Philips
Special Assistant to the Director William C. Grayson
Administrative Officer Jewell S. Dulaney
News George J. Berklacy
Audio-Visual Services Albert J. Robinson
Radio Production Vacant
Motion Picture Unit John O’Toole
Publications William C. Craig
Manager, Community Directory

of Interests Alicia R. Fisher

Office of International Activities

Director David Challinor
Assistant Director Michael R. Huxley*!
Foreign Currency Program
Director Kennedy B. Schmertz
Deputy Director Kenneth D. Whitehead
Program Officer Richard C. Conroy
Grants Technical Assistants Betty J. Wingfield
Judy E. Rodgers
Administrative Assistant Paula E. Ullmann

Division of Performing Arts

Director James R. Morris
Deputy Director Richard P. Lusher
Director, Festival of American

Folklife Ralph C. Rinzler
Budget and Development Officer John A. McQuiggan
Operations Officer Ruri Kesa Sakai
Planning Officer Marian A. Hope
Indian Programs Clydia D. Nahwooksy
Acting Director, Touring Performances Mary E. Carrington
Manager, Puppet Theatre Mel Mackler

Smithsonian Museum Shops

Acting Director John E. Skuce*?
Administrative Officer Martha L. Wilson
Design Chief J. Michael Carigan
Book Shops Manager Florence R. Lloyd

#1 Appointed 3 May 1970.
42 Effective 16 April 1970.
APPENDIX 4. STAFF OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION 179

Belmont Conference Center

Director Joanne S. Baker?

Anacostia Neighborhood Museum

Director John R. Kinard
Assistant Director Zora B. Martin
Research and Design Coordinator Larry Erskine Thomas
Exhibit Specialist James E. Mayo

Artist in Residence Georgia Mills Jessup

Smithsonian (magazine)

Editor Edward K. Thompson
Members, Board of Editors Ralph Backlund
R. Hobart Ellis
Edwards Park

Associate Editor Grayce P. Northcross
Advertising Director Thomas H. Black
Circulation-Promotion Director Anne Keating
General Manager Joseph Bonsignore

Smithsonian Institution Archives

Archivist
Assistant Archivist
Historian

Richard H. Lytle**
Donald Danuloff*
James Steed4®

Smithsonian Institution Libraries

Director of Libraries Russell Shank
Assistant Director of Libraries Mary A. Huffer
Special Assistant to the Director of

Libraries for Biological Science

Programs Jean C. Smith
Library of Congress Liaison Librarian Ruth E. Blanchard
Public Service Advisor Frank A. Pietropaoli
Administrative Librarian Thomas L. Wilding

43 Effective 1 January 1970.
44 Appointed 5 January 1970.
49 Appointed 22 June 1970.
46 Appointed 2 March 1970.
180

Acquisitions Division
Chief
Assistant Chief
Serials Librarian

Catalog Division
Chief
Catalogers

Reference and Circulation Division
Assistant Chief
Reference Librarians

Branch Librarians

Freer Gallery of Art

National Collection of Fine Arts and
National Portrait Gallery

National Museum of History and
Technology

Smithsonian Astrophysical
Observatory

Smithsonian Tropical Research
Institute

Department of Anthropology

Department of Botany

Branch Library Reference Staff
Reference Librarians

Technical Information Specialist

SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1970

L. Frances Jones
Mildred D. Raitt
Edna S. Suber

Vija L. Karklins
Bertha S. Sohn
Angeline D. Ashford
Ruth E. Carlson*
Charles H. King
Martha L. Lang48
Cynthia P. Rupp
Margaret A. Sealor

Jack F. Marquardt
Sue Y. Chen
A. James Spohn

Priscilla P. Smith
William B. Walker
Jack S. Goodwin

Elizabeth H. Weeks*?
Joyce M. Rey

Alcira Mejia
Mary L. Horgan
Ruth F. Schallert

Charles G. Berger (NMHT)
Aleita A. Hogenson (NCFA-NPG)

Shirley S. Harren (NcFA-NpG) °°

International Exchange Service

Director
Assistant Director

47 Retired 31 October 1969.
48 ‘Transferred 30 May 1970.
49 Resigned 7 November 1969.
°° Transferred 4 April 1970.
°l Appointed 20 April 1969.

Jeremiah A. Collins
John E. Estes**
APPENDIX 4. STAFF OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Information Systems Division

Director

Acting Director

Manager, Management Systems
Section

Manager, Computer Operations

Manager, Information Storage
and Retrieval Section

Manager, Library Systems and
Programs Maintenance Section

Manager, Scientific Applications
Section

Senior Programming Analysts

Nicholas J. Suszynski°?
Stanley A. Kovy°?

Stanley A. Kovy
Roy G. Perry

Reginald A. Creighton
James J. Crockett

Dante Piacesi
George Davis
William Lawson
Edwin A. Robinson
Raymond D. Shreve

Smithsonian Institution Press

Director

Managing Editor
Managing Designer
Promotion Manager
Business Manager
Editors

Designers

Series Production Manager

Anders Richter
Roger Pineau
Stephen Kraft
Maureen R. Jacoby
Eileen M. McCarthy
Mary Frances Bell
Ernest E. Biebighauser
Louise J. Heskett
Joan B. Horn

Mary M. Ingraham
John S. Lea

Nancy L. Powars
Albert L. Ruffin, Jr.
Jane W. Sieverts
Crimilda Pontes
Elizabeth Sur
Charles L. Shaffer

Science Information Exchange

Director

Deputy Director

Associate Directors
Life Sciences
Physical Sciences

52 Resigned 20 December 1969.
53 Appointed 20 December 1969.

Monroe E. Freeman
David F. Hersey

Willis R. Foster
Frank J. Kreysa
182

Data Processing
Special Assistant
Executive Officer
Administrative Officer
Life Sciences Division
Chief
Deputy Chief
Chief, Medical Sciences Branch
Chief, Biological Sciences Branch
Chief, Agricultural Sciences Branch
Chief, Behavioral Sciences Branch
Chief, Social Sciences and
Community Programs Branch
Physical Sciences Division
Chief
Chief, Chemistry Branch
Chief, Earth Sciences Branch
Chief, Electronics Branch
Chief, Engineering Branch
Chief, Materials Branch
Chief, Physics and Mathematics
Branch
Data Processing Division
Chief
Deputy Chief
Chief, Registry Branch
Chief, Data Edit Branch
Chief, Report Services Branch
Chief, Systems and Programming
Branch
Chief, Computer Operations Branch

SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1970

Martin Snyderman
Richard C. Reeser
V. P. Verfuerth
Evelyn M. Roll

Willis R. Foster
Charlotte M. Damron
Faith F. Stephan
James R. Wheatley, Jr.
William T. Carlson
Rhoda Stolper

Barbara F. Lundquist

Frank J. Kreysa
Samuel Liebman
Joseph P. Riva, Jr.
John J. Park
Inder Jit Bhambri
William H. Payne

Robert Summers

Martin Snyderman
Bernard L. Hunt
Angelo Piccillo
Mary Rumreich
Olympia Merritt

Robert A. Kline
Paul Gallucci

Reading Is Fundamental

Executive Director
Assistant Director

Jerrold Sandler
Barbara B. Atkinson

National Gallery of Art

President
Vice President
Director
Assistants to the Director

Administrator
Assistants to the Administrator

Paul Mellon

John Hay Whitney

J. Carter Brown

Richard Bales (Music)

Katherine Warwick (Public
Information)

E. James Adams

Charles B. Walstrom (Personnel
and Administration)
APPENDIX 4. STAFF OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Assistants to the Administrator—
Continued

Treasurer

Secretary

Acting Chief Curator

Deputy Administrator

Deputy Administrator, Extension
Services and Publications

Curator of Painting

Curator in charge of Education

Curator of Sculpture

Curator, Index of American Design
and Decorative Arts (Exhibitions
and Loans Officer)

Editor

Personnel Officer

Assistant Treasurer

Sterling P. Eagleton (Scientific
and Technical Information)

Lloyd D. Hayes

Kennedy C. Watkins

William P. Campbell

Joseph G. English

W. Howard Adams
H. Lester Cooke
Margaret Bouton

C. Douglas Lewis, Jr.

Grose Evans
Theodore S. Amussen
Jeremiah J. Barrett
James W. Woodard

John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts

Chairman

Vice Chairman

Vice Chairman

General Counsel

Secretary

Treasurer

General Director

Deputy General Director and Assistant
Secretary

Music Adviser

Artistic Administrator

Assistant Treasurers

Executive Director for Engineering
Project Manager
Honorary

Treasurer Emeritus

Roger L. Stevens
Robert O. Anderson
Sol M. Linowitz

Ralph E. Becker

K. LeMoyne Billings
Robert G. Baker
William McC. Blair, Jr.

Philip J. Mullin
Julius Rudel

George London

John L. Bryant
Kenneth Birgfeld
Paul J. Bisset

L. Parker Harrell, Jr.
William A. Schmidt
Robert L. Prichard

Daniel W. Bell

183
Appendix 5

PUBLICATIONS
OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION PRESS
IN FISCAL YEAR 1970

Books

American Printmaking: The First 150 Years. Preface by A. Hyatt Mayor, fore-
word by Donald H. Karshan, introduction by J. William Middendorf II, text
by Wendy J. Shadwell. 180 pages, 115 plates. 1 August 1969. Cloth, $12.50.

Archipenko. Edited by Donald H. Karshan, preface by S. Dillon Ripley, fore-
word by David W. Scott, with essays by Guillaume Appollinaire and Guy
Habasque. 116 pages, 178 illustrations. 1 May 1970. Cloth, $10.00.

Devereux, George. Mohave Ethnopsychiatry: The Psychic Disturbances of an
Indian Tribe. xvi +597 pages. Bureau of American Ethnology Bulletin 175,
originally published 1961. Revised edition, 17 November 1969. Cloth, $16.50.

Ewers, John C. The Horse in Blackfoot Indian Culture. xv + 374 pages, 33 fig-
ures, 17 plates, 7 tables. Bureau of American Ethnology Bulletin 159, orig-
inally published 1955, reissued 17 November 1969. Cloth, $12.50.

Isleta Paintings. With introduction and commentary by Elsie Clews Parsons;
edited, and with a new foreword, by Esther S. Goldfrank; and with annotated
glossary of Isleta terms by George L. Trager. xxii + 170 pages, 140 paintings
plus frontispiece. Bureau of American Ethnology Bulletin 181, originally pub-
lished 1962. Revised edition 10 June 1970. Cloth, $13.95.

Lewis, Emanuel Raymond. Seacoast Fortifications of the United States: An
Introductory History. xiv + 145 pages, 66 figures. 30 June 1970. Cloth,
$8.95.

Pursell, Carroll W., Jr. Early Stationary Steam Engines in America: A Study in
the Migration of a Technology. viii + 152 pages, 19 illustrations. 17 Novem-
ber 1969. Cloth, $6.75.

Scheele, Carl H. A Short History of the Mail Service. 250 pages, 14 figures, 13
tables. 15 March 1970. Cloth, $6.95.

Spencer, Robert F. The North Alaskan Eskimo: A Study in Ecology and So-
ciety. viii + 490 pages, 2 figures, 9 plates, 4 maps. Bureau of American Eth-
nology Bulletin 171, originally published 1959. Reissued 17 November 1969.
Cloth, $15.00.

Takhtajan, Armen. Flowering Plants: Origin and Dispersal. Translated by C.
Jeffrey. x + 310 pages, 32 figures, 13 plates. 10 November 1969. Cloth, $6.95.

184
APPENDIX 5. PUBLICATIONS OF SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION 185

Booklets

Dubos, Rene. A Theology of the Earth. 19 pages. 30 December 1969.

Hoover, Cynthia A. Harpischords and Clavichords. 43 pages, 36 figures. 31 De-
cember 1969.

MacInnis, Joseph B., M.D., and Jon M. Lindbergh. Underwater Man: His
Evolution and Explorations. iii + 20 pages, 8 figures. Publication 4763. 8 De-
cember 1969. $.75.

Purdy, Virginia C., and Daniel J. Reed. Presidential Portraits. Edited by J.
Benjamin Townsend. iv + 76 pages, 39 illustrations. Publication 4748. Orig-
inally published 1968. Revised edition, 20 October 1969. $1.25.

Shortridge, John D. Italian Harpischord-Building in the 16th and 17th Centuries.
15 pages, 12 figures. Contributions from the Museum of History and Tech-
nology, United States National Museum Bulletin 225 (Paper 15), originally
published 1963. Reprinted with changes, 11 June 1970.

Smithsonian Institution Explorer’s Booklet. Numbers 1-6. Illustrated. 26 August
1969.

Serial Publications

Unirep States NATIONAL Museum BULLETINS

277. L. P. Kelsey. A Revision of the Scenopinidae (Diptera) of the World.

v + 336 pages, 208 figures. 31 December 1969.

William Ralph Taylor. A Revision of the Catfish Genus Noturus Rafin-

esque with an Analysis of Higher Groups in the Ictaluridae. vi + 315

pages, 5 figures, 21 plates, 14 maps, 28 tables. 31 December 1969.

291. Clyde F. E. Roper. Systematics and Zoogeography of the Worldwide
Bathypelagic Squid Bathyteuthis (Cephalopoda: Oegopsida). v + 210
pages, 74 figures, 12 plates, 20 tables. 1 August 1969.

293. Maureen E. Downey. Catalog of Recent Ophiuroid Type Specimens in
Major Collections in the United States. vi + 239 pages. 6 November 1969.

295. Rosalie F. Maddocks. Revision of Recent Bairdiidae (Ostracoda). iv +
126 pages, 63 figures, 1 plate, 2 tables. 18 August 1969.

296. Jack T. Tomlinson. The Burrowing Barnacles (Cirripedia: Order Acro-
thoracica). v + 162 pages, 45 figures, 3 tables. 25 November 1969.

297. James A. Peters and Roberto Donoso-Barros. Catalogue of the Neotrop-
ical Squamata: Part II. Lizards and Amphaisbaenians. viii + 293 pages,
104 figures. 24 February 1970.

no
(ee)
nN

CONTRIBUTIONS FROM THE
Museum oF History AND TECHNOLOGY

BULLETIN 250
(Whole volume)

Papers 59-64 on History. vii + 203 pages, illustrated. 31 December 1969.
186 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1970
SMITHSONIAN CONTRIBUTIONS TO ANTHROPOLOGY

VOLUME 2

5. William K. Jones. “Notes on the History and Material Culture of the Ton-
kawa Indians.” Pages 65-81, 19 figures, 3 maps, 31 December 1969.
6. Jack Frederick Kilpatrick and Anna Gritts Kilpatrick. “Notebook of a

Cherokee Shaman.” Pages 83-125. 6 May 1970.

VOLUME 9
(Whole volume)

Aubrey W. Williams, Jr. ““Navajo Political Process.” ix + 71 pages, 1 figure, 10
plates, 6 maps, 6 tables. 25 June 1970.

VOLUME 11
(Whole volume)

James A. Ford. ““A Comparison of Formative Cultures in the Americas: Diffu-
sion or the Psychic Unity of Man.” xviii + 211 pages, 32 figures, 22 charts,
13 tables. 10 December 1969.

(Seriation by volume/number is replaced hereon by number only.)

12. C. G. Holland. “An Archeological Survey of Southwest Virginia.” xvi +
194 pages, 43 figures, 28 plates, 9 tables. 27 May 1970.

13. Leland C. Wyman. ‘‘Sandpaintings of the Navaho Shootingway and The
Walcott Collection.” xii + 102 pages, 44 plates, colored frontispiece, 5
tables. 11 June 1970.

SMITHSONIAN CONTRIBUTIONS TO BOTANY

1. Dan Henry Nicolson. ‘A Revision of the Genus Aglaonema (Araceae). 69

pages, 23 figures, 1 table. 14 August 1969.

Harold Robinson. ““A Monograph on Foliar Anatomy of the Genera Con-

nellia, Cottendorfia, and Navia (Bromeliaceae).” 41 pages, 277 figures. 10

October 1969.

3. Wm. Randolph Taylor and Charles F. Rhyne. “Marine Algae of Dominica.”
16 pages, 2 figures. 5 March 1970.

ie)

SMITHSONIAN CONTRIBUTIONS TO PALEOBIOLOGY

1. G. Arthur Cooper and Richard E. Grant. ‘New Permian Brachiopods from

West Texas.” 20 pages, 5 plates. 14 July 1969.

G. Lewis Gazin. ““A New Occurrence of Paleocene Mammals in the Evanston

Formation, Southwestern Wyoming.” 17 pages, 1 figure, 3 plates. 31 Decem-

ber 1969.

4. Richard Cifelli and Roberta K. Smith. ‘Distribution of Planktonic Forami-
nifera in the Vicinity of the North Atlantic Current.” 52 pages, 22 figures,
6 plates, 8 tables. 13 April 1970.

no
APPENDIX 5. PUBLICATIONS OF SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION 187

10.

11.

135.

lay

115).

SMITHSONIAN CONTRIBUTIONS TO ZOOLOGY

W. Donald Duckworth. “Bredin-Archbold-Smithsonian Biological Survey
of Dominica: West Indian Stenomidae (Lepidoptera: Gelechioidea).” 21
pages, 30 figures. 13 August 1969.

Rosalie F. Maddocks. ‘‘Recent Ostracodes of the Family Pontocyprididae
Chiefly from the Indian Ocean.” 56 pages, 35 figures, 5 tables. 17 Septem-
ber 1969.

Louis S. Kornicker. ““Morphology, Ontogeny, and Intraspecific Variation of
Spinacopia, a New Genus of Myodocopid Ostracod (Sarsiellidae).’ 50
pages, 26 figures, 6 plates, 7 tables. 22 August 1969.

Robert E. Ricklefs. “An Analysis of Nesting Mortality in Birds.” 48 pages,
11 figures, 26 tables. 12 December 1969.

Charles W. Myers and A. Stanley Rand. “Checklist of Amphibians and
Reptiles of Barro Colorado Island, Panama, with Comments on Faunal
Change and Sampling.” 11 pages, 2 figures, 1 table. 13 August 1969.
Dale J. Osborn and Karl V. Krombein. ‘‘Habitats, Flora, Mammals, and
Wasps of Gebel “Uweinat, Libyan Desert.” 18 pages, 13 figures, 1 table.
27 August 1969.

R. E. Crabill, Jr. ‘“Tracheotaxy as a Generic Criterion in Himantariidae,
with Proposal of Two New Bothriogastrine Genera (Chilopoda: Geophilo-
morpha).” 9 pages, 23 figures. 13 August 1969.

Clyde F. E. Roper, Richard E. Young, and Gilbert L. Voss. ‘An Illustrated
Key to the Families of the Order Teuthoidea (Cephalopoda).” 32 pages,
2 figures, 16 plates, 1 table. 18 August 1969.

Robert P. Higgins. “Indian Ocean Kinorhyncha: 1, Condyloderes and
Sphenoderes, New Cyclorhagid Genera.” 13 pages, 23 figures, 3 tables. 13
August 1969.

Richard E. Young and Clyde F. E. Roper. ‘“‘A Monograph of the Cepha-
lopoda of the North Atlantic: The Family Joubiniteuthidae.” 10 pages, 6
figures, 1 table. 13 August 1969.

Alan Stone. ‘“Bredin-Archbold-Smithsonian Biological Survey of Dominica:
The Mosquitoes of Dominica (Diptera: Culicidae).” 8 pages, 9 July 1969.
Leonard P. Schultz. ‘““(he Taxonomic Status of the Controversial Genera
and Species of Parrotfishes with a Descriptive List (Family Scaridae).” 49
pages, 2 figures, 8 plates, 13 tables. 10 December 1969.

Ronald W. Hodges. ‘‘Nearctic Walshiidae Notes and New Taxa (Lepidop-
tera: Gelechioidea).” 30 pages, 46 figures, 6 August 1969.

Karl V. Krombein. “Life History Notes on Some Egyptian Solitary Wasps
and Bees and Their Associates (Hymenoptera: Aculeata).” 18 pages, 26
figures. 13 August 1969.

Gayle A. Heron and David M. Damkaer. “Five Species of Deep-Water
Cyclopoid Copepods from the Plankton of the Gulf of Alaska.” 24 pages,
28 figures, 1 table. 23 September 1969.

Oscar L. Cartwright and Robert E. Woodruff. ‘Ten Rhyparus from the
Western Hemisphere (Coleoptera: Scarabaeidae: Aphodiinae).” 20 pages,
15 figures. 6 November 1969.

Karl V. Krombein. “A Revision of the Melanesian Wasps of the Genus
Cerceris Latreille (Hymenoptera: Sphecidae).” 36 pages, 23 figures. 19
December 1969.
188 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1970

23. Thomas Borgmeier. ‘‘Bredin-Archbold-Smithsonian Biological Survey of Do-
minica: The Phoridae of Dominica (Diptera).” 69 pages, 152 figures. 18
November 1969.

24. Charles E. King and Louis S. Kornicker. “Ostracoda in Texas Bays and
Lagoons: An Ecologic Study.” 92 pages, 15 figures, 21 plates, 19 tables.
25 March 1970.

25. Harold Robinson. “A Monographic Study of the Mexican Species of En-
linia (Diptera: Dolichopodidae).” 62 pages, 221 figures. 6 November 1969.

26. Helmut K. Buechner and Jimmie H. Buechner, editors. ‘““The Avifauna of
Northern Latin America: A Symposium Held at the Smithsonian Institution
13-15 April 1966.” 119 pages, 4 figures. 3 April 1970.

27. J. F. Eisenberg and Edwin Gould. “The Tenrecs: A Study in Mammalian
Behavior and Evolution.” 137 pages, 77 figures, 13 tables. 9 March 1970.

28. M. Moynihan. ‘Some Behavior Patterns of Platyrrhine Monkeys II. Saguz-
nus geoffroyi and Some Other Tamarins.” 77 pages, 25 figures, 1 table.
15 April 1970.

29. F. D. Por. “Deep-Sea Cerviniidae (Copepoda: Harpacticoida) from the
Western Indian Ocean, Collected with R/V Anton Brunn in 1964.” 60
pages, 182 figures, 1 table. 6 November 1969.

30. Carl F. W. Muesebeck. ‘““The Nearctic Species of Orgilus Haliday (Hymen-
optera: Braconidae) .” 104 pages, 57 figures. 20 February 1970.

31. Robert H. Gibbs, Jr. ““Taxonomy, Sexual Dimorphism, Vertical Distribu-
tion, and Evolutionary Zoogeography of the Bathypelagic Fish Genus Sto-
mias (Stomiatidae).” 25 pages, 6 figures, 15 tables. 2 December 1969.

32. Louis S. Kornicker. “Ostracoda (Myodocopina) from the Peru-Chile
Trench and the Antarctic Ocean.” 42 pages, 25 figures, 1 table. 11 Feb-
ruary 1970.

33. Frank N. Young. ‘‘A Checklist of the American Bidessini (Coleoptera:
Dytiscidae-Hydroporinae).”’ 5 pages. 25 November 1969.

34. J. Laurens Barnard. ‘‘Sublittoral Gammaridea (Amphipoda) of the Ha-
waiian Islands.” 286 pages, 180 figures, 6 tables. 15 April 1970.

35. Robert E. Martin. “Cranial and Bacular Variation in the Populations of
Spiny Rats of the Genus Proechimys (Rodentia: Echimyidae) from South
America.” 19 pages, 12 figures, 4 tables. 30 January 1970.

36. Raymond B. Manning. ‘A Review of the Genus Harpiosquilla (Crustacea,
Stomatopoda), with Descriptions of Three New Species.” 41 pages, 43
figures, 1 table. 31 December 1969.

37. Thomas W. Donnelly. ‘““The Odonata of Dominica British West Indies.”
20 pages, 27 figures. 11 February 1970.

39. Louis S. Kornicker. ‘“Myodocopid Ostracoda (Cypridinacea) from the
Philippine Islands.’ 32 pages, 18 figures, 5 tables. 11 February 1970.

40. Thomas Phelan. ‘A Field Guide to the Cidaroid Echinoids of the North-
western Atlantic Ocean, Gulf of Mexico, and the Caribbean Sea.” 67 pages,
7 figures, 22 plates. 10 March 1970.

41. Marian H. Pettibone. “Revision of the Aphroditoid Polychaetes of the
Family Eulepthidae Chamberlin (= Eulepidinae Darboux; = Pareulepidae
Hartman).” 44 pages, 31 figures. 6 November 1969.
APPENDIX 5. PUBLICATIONS OF SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION 189

42. Helmut E. Zibrowius. “Review of Some Little Known Genera of Serpulidae
(Annelida: Polychaeta). 22 pages, 7 figures. 31 December 1969.

44. J. Laurens Barnard. ‘Benthic Ecology of Bahia de San Quintin, Baja
California.” 60 pages, 18 figures, 12 tables. 10 March 1970.

46. Karl V. Krombein. “Behavioral and Life-History Notes on Three Floridian
Solitary Wasps (Hymenoptera: Sphecidae).” 26 pages, 78 figures, 3 tables.
25 May 1970.

47. Horton H. Hobbs, Jr., and H. H. Hobbs III. “New Entocytherid Ostracods
with a Key to the Genera of the Subfamily Entocytherinae.” 19 pages, 9
figures. 26 May 1970.

48. W. Donald Duckworth. ‘Neotropical Microlepidoptera XVIII: Revision
of the Genus Peleopoda (Lepidoptera: Oecophoridae). 30 pages, 55 figures,
3 plates, 8 maps. 19 June 1970.

SMITHSONIAN STUDIES IN History AND TECHNOLOGY

1. Melvin H. Jackson. “Privateers in Charleston, 1793-1796: An Account of
a French Palatinate in South Carolina.” x+159 pages, 24 figures. 31 De-
cember 1969.

W. E. Knowles Middleton. “Catalog of Meteorological Instruments in the
Museum of History and Technology.” v+128 pages, 124 figures. 4 Au-
gust 1969.

3. Betty Lawson Walters. ‘““The King of Desks: Wooton’s Patent Secretary.”

iv+32 pages, 28 figures, frontispiece. 31 December 1969.

N

ATOLL RESEARCH BULLETINS

128. A. D. Forbes-Watson. Notes on Birds Observed in the Comoros on Behalf
of the Smithsonian Institution. 23 pages. 15 August 1969.

129. John D. Milliman. Four Southwestern Caribbean Atolls: Courtown Cays,
Albuquerque Cays, Roncador Bank and Serrana Bank. 22 pages, 10 figures,
13 plates, 4 tables. Appendix: Reef Productivity Measurement, by John D.
Milliman and Conrad V. W. Mahnken. 4 pages, 7 figures, 2 tables. 15
August 1969.

130. C.D. Adams. A Botanical Description of Big Pelican Cay, A Little Known
Island off the South Coast of Jamaica. 10 pages, 1 figure, 4 plates. 15
August 1969.

131. D. R. Stoddart. Post-Hurricane Changes on the British Honduras Reefs
and Cays: Re-survey of 1965. 25 pages, 15 figures. 15 August 1969.

132. F. R. Fosberg. Plants of Satawal Island, Caroline Islands. 13 pages. 15
August 1969.

133. F. R. Fosberg and Michael Evans. A Collection of Plants From Fais,
Caroline Islands. 15 pages. 15 August 1969.

134. M.D. Gwynne and D. Wood. Plants Collected on Islands in the Western
Indian Ocean During a Crutse of the M.F.R.V. “Manihine,’ Sept.—Oct.
1967. 15 pages. 15 August 1969.

135. Island News and Comment. 17 pages.
190 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1970

Manuals

Campden-Main, Simon M. A Field Guide to the Snakes of South Vietnam.
v-+ 114 pages, 77 figures. 27 January 1970.

Van Peenen, P. F. D. Preliminary Identification Manual for Mammals of South
Vietnam, vi-+ 310 pages, 181 figures. 1 December 1969.

Wildlife Southeast Asia. Study card set. 27 February 1970.

Catalogs

The Art of Henry O. Tanner. 60 pages, 27 illustrations. 6 August 1969.

Beer, Alice Baldwin. Trade Goods: A Study of Indian Chintz in the Collection
of the Cooper-Hewitt Museum of Decorative Arts and Design, Smithsonian
Institution. 135 pages, 4 color plates, 30 black and white plates. 26 June 1970.

D. C. Art Association 2nd Annual Art Exhibition. 60 pages, illustrated. 13
April 1970. Exhibit announcement. 10 April 1970.

Explorations. With statements by Gyorgy Kepes, Joshua C. Taylor, and Howard
W. Johnson. 4 booklets. 3 April 1970.

The Frederick Douglass Years: A Cultural History Exhibit. 12 pages, illustrated.
10 April 1970. Pamphlet, 8 pages, January 1970. Folder, February 1970.

G. Méliés. 12 pages, illustrated. November 1969. Foldout: Méliés Film Festival:
Films of Fantasy and Illusion From the 1890's. December 1969.

Indian Images: Photographs of North American Indians 1847-1928. Introduc-
tion and catalog by Joanna Cohan Scherer. 31 pages, illustrated. 30 June
1970. Paper.

Laser 10. Exhibit folder. January 1970. Hologram. January 1970.

Leonard Baskin. Essay by Alan Fern, annotated by Leonard Baskin, foreword
by Joshua C. Taylor. 76 pages, 62 illustrations. 12 June 1970.

The Rat: Man’s Invited Affliction. 8 pages. 17 November 1969.

Werner Drewes Woodcuts. Introduction by David W. Scott, statement by
Werner Drewes, text by Jacob Kainen, catalogue by Caril Dreyfuss. 32 pages,
36 illustrations. 20 August 1969. $.50.

Leaflets

The American Folklife Company. Foldout. November 1969.

American Studies Program. Foldout. February 1970.

The Anacostia Neighborhood Museum, Smithsonian Institution Presents The
Columbians. 20 pages, illustrated. 7 November 1969.

The Black Experience. Announcement. November 1969.

Color Me Mankind. Announcement. August 1969.

Electricity and Matter. 4 pages. 8 July 1969.

Electricity and Physiology, Chemistry, Magnetism, Heat. Folder. October 1969.

Explorer-I and Jupiter—C. 4 pages, illustrated. December 1969.

A Guide to the Arts & Industries Building, Smithsonian Institution. Guide map.
13) june 1970.
APPENDIX 5. PUBLICATIONS OF SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION 19]

History of Science and Technology at the Smithsonian Institution. Foldout. 24
December 1969.

Learning Opportunities for Schools. Foldout. 21 November 1969.

National Museum of History and Technology. Foldout. Revised 10 September
1969.

National Portrait Gallery Sculpture Court. Folder. May 1970.

Organs in Early America. Folder. October 1969.

Smithsonian Film Theatre. Schedules. December 1969—January 1970. November
1969. February-March 1970. January 1970. April-May—June 1970. March
1970.

The Smithsonian Institution Invites Volunteers in Education. 4 pages. April
1970.

The Smithsonian Institution Offers Academic Research Opportunities. Foldout.
22 September 1969.

Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D. C. Guide map. Revised 16 December
1969. Revised 11 June 1970.

The Speakers Bureau. 12 pages. 10 April 1970.

The Theory of Electricity. Foldout. November 1969.

Wiley Post’s “Winnie Mae”: Lockheed Model 5—C ‘Vega’ (Modified). Folder.
December 1969.

Wind Instruments. Folder. November 1969.

Woodrow Wilson International Center For Scholars. Foldout. March 1970.

Women, Cameras, and Images II: Betty Hahn and Gayle Smalley. Exhibit
announcement. July 1969.

Women, Cameras, and Images III: Berenice Abbott. Exhibit announcement.
July 1969.

Women, Cameras, and Images IV: Barbara Morgan. Exhibit announcement.
October 1969.

Official Publications

Annual Report of the American Historical Association for the Year 1968.
Volume 1: “Proceedings.” xvii+172 pages. 8 December 1969.

Annual Report of the American Historical Association for the Year 1961.
Volume II: ‘Writings on American History, 1959.” Edited by James R.
Masterson. xv-+737 pages. 2 October 1969.

Increase and Diffusion: A Brief Introduction to the Smithsonian Institution,
Washington, D.C. Foreword by Frederic M. Philips. 87 pages. 30 April 1970.

Smithsonian Institution Directory. 151 pages. Publication 4638. January 1970.

Smithsonian Institution Opportunities for Research and Advanced Study,
1970-1971. xvi+230 pages, 8 illustrations. 22 September 1969.

Smithsonian Year 1969: Annual Report of the Smithsonian Institution for the
Year Ended 30 June 1969. viiit-705 pages, illustrated. Publication 4765.
20 May 1970.

Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars, 1970-1971. 20 pages,
illustrated. 15 November 1969.
Appendix 6

ACADEMIC APPOINTMENTS
1969-1970

Postdoctoral Visiting Research Associates

Program in American History

WattTeER L. Creese. The American imagery resulting from political action and
how it influenced the formulation of the visual and esthetic environment over
the last two hundred years, “History of the Effect of American Government
on the American Arts from Washington’s Time,” with Dr. Wilcomb E. Wash-
burn, American Studies Program, from 1 July 1969 to 30 June 1970.

E. RavmMonp Lewis. A history of American seacoast fortification, with John H.
Magruder III, National Armed Forces Museum Advisory Board, from 1
October 1969 to 1 October 1970.

Joun J. McCusker. Philadelphia shipping, 1722-1776; a statistical study, with
Dr. Melvin H. Jackson, National Museum of History and Technology, from 1
September 1969 to 31 August 1970.

Linpa M. McKee. A biographical study of Commodore Isaac Hull, with Howard
I. Chapelle, National Museum of History and Technology, from 1 September
1969 to 1 September 1970.

Spencer C. Tucker. A history of American muzzle-loading naval ordnance,
with Dr. Melvin H. Jackson, National Museum of History and Technology,
from 23 July 1969 to 23 July 1970.

Dana F. Wuirte. A systems study of the development of the city of Washington,
D.C., with Dr. Wilcomb E. Washburn, American Studies Program, from

1 July 1969 to 1 July 1970.

Program in Anthropology

R. H. Ives Gopparn III. Linguistics, ethnography, and ethnohistory of the
Algonquin Indians, with Dr. William C. Sturtevant, National Museum of
Natural History, from | August 1969 to 1 August 1970.

Irvinc I. Zaretsky. A social history of spiritualism in the San Francisco
Bay Region, with Dr. William C. Sturtevant, National Museum of Natural
History, from 1 September 1969 to 1 September 1970.

Program in Environmental Sciences

PeneLope WiLutAMson. Behavioral studies of foraging in starling flocks, with
Dr. George Watson, National Museum of Natural History, from 15 September
1969 to 15 September 1970.

92
APPENDIX 6. ACADEMIC APPOINTMENTS 193

Program in Evolutionary and Behavioral Biology, Tropical Zones

ZBicNiEw M. Guiwicz. Freshwater phytoplankton productivity; differential
availability of different kinds of algae to various consuming organisms, with
Dr. Martin H. Moynihan, Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, from 16
October 1969 to 16 October 1970.

Henry A. HespenuHeEIDE III. Ecology of tropical insectivorous birds and their
prey, with Dr. Martin Moynihan, Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute,
from 1 July 1969 to 1 July 1970.

Bruce A. Miter. Ecology and systematics of Pacific and Western Atlantic
Terebridae, with Dr. Peter Glynn, Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute,
from 12 May 1970 to 11 March 1971.

Eucene S. Morton. Communication in birds, with Dr. Neal Smith, Smith-
sonian Tropical Research Institute, from 1 January 1970 to 1 January 1971.

Joun Conrap Ocpen. Ecology of inshore fishes, with Dr. Ira Rubinoff, Smith-
sonian Tropical Research Institute, from 1 September 1969 to 1 November
1970.

Uzi Ritter. Ecological and genetic adaptations of populations of the spiny rat,
Proechimys semispinosus, to different climatic regimes, and Dr. Martin H.
Moynihan, Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, from 1 September 1969
to 1 September 1970.

Eric S. Topp. Ecophysiology of some air-breathing gobiid and gobiesocid fishes,
with Dr. Martin H. Moynihan, Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute,
from | September 1969 to 1 September 1970.

Program in Evolutionary and Systematic Biology

WiuuiAM C. Banta. Evolution of bryozoa as illustrated by the structure and
development of the body wall, with Dr. Alan Cheetham, National Museum of
Natural History, from 1 September 1969 to 1 September 1970.

Daniet B. Brake. Evolutionary and morphological relationships of paleozoic
bryozoa, with Dr. Richard Boardman, National Museum of Natural History,
from 1 September 1969 to 1 September 1970.

J. STANLEY Coss. Brain morphology and behavior of deep-sea fishes, with Dr.
Robert Gibbs and Dr. Stanley Weitzman, National Museum of Natural His-
tory, from 1 October 1969 to 1 October 1970.

ArtHur L. Daut. Ecological investigations of marine algae with computerized
analysis of their habitats, with Dr. Mason Hale, National Museum of Natural
History, from 15 September 1969 to 14 September 1970.

Desmonp J. G. GrirFin. Evolutionary relationships of decapod crustacea, with
Dr. Raymond Manning, National Museum of Natural History, from 19
January 1970 to 19 October 1970.

Stuart LANpry, Jr. Evolution and relationships of rabbits and rodents, with
Dr. Charles O. Handley, Jr., National Museum of Natural History, from
1 September 1969 to 1 September 1970.

James E. Morrow. Systematics of Alaskan White fishes and Charrs, with Dr.

Robert Gibbs, National Museum of Natural History, from 18 September
1969 to 31 May 1970.

SHiH-CuHieEH SHEN. Systematic and morphologic studies of fishes, with Dr.
Robert Gibbs, National Museum of Natural History, from 3 November 1969
to 31 October 1970.
194 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1970

Program in History of Science and Technology

STANLEY GuRALNICK. Science education in nineteenth-century American col-
leges, with Dr. Nathan Reingold, Joseph Henry Papers, from 1 August 1969
to 1 August 1970.

Davip J. Jeremy. The textile industry in England and the United States; a
case study in transmission of a technology, with Dr. Philip Bishop, National
Museum of History and Technology, from 18 August 1969 to 18 August 1970.

CarROLL PurRSELL, Jr. Mobilization of American science and technology for
World War I, with Dr. Nathan Reingold, Joseph Henry Papers, from 15 De-
cember 1969 to 15 June 1970.

Peter STECHL. Biological and standardization of drugs, 1928-1940, with Dr.
Sami Hamarneh, National Museum of History and Technology, from 23 June
1969 to 23 June 1970.

Program in Physical Sciences

Tomas Fernincer. Petrology of some Colombian and Ecuadorian Andean meta-
morphic rocks, with Dr. George Switzer, National Museum of Natural History,
from | September 1969 to 31 August 1970.

Ter-Curen Huanc. Origin and nature of deep-sea sediments and sediment
transport processes, with Dr. Daniel J. Stanley, National Museum of Natural
History, from 1 January 1970 to 1 January 1971.

Anit LYALL. Studies of outer continental margin sediments near the Wilming-
ton Canyon, with Dr. Daniel J. Stanley, National Museum of Natural His-
tory, from 1 November 1969 to 1 July 1970.

Forese C. Wezev. Sediments on the continental rise in the vicinity of the
Wilmington Submarine Canyon, eastern United States, with Dr. Daniel J.
Stanley, National Museum of Natural History, from 1 November 1969 to 31
October 1970.

Predoctoral Visiting Research Associates

Program in American History

Faye Joanne Baker. A study of tombstones as a reflection of American culture,
with Dr. Wilcomb E. Washburn, American Studies Program, from | Septem-
ber 1969 to 1 September 1970, leading to the award of PhD from the George
Washington University.

Davin K. Sutuivan. Studies in the documentation of American political history
in the United States, with Dr. Wilcomb E. Washburn, American Studies
Program, from 1 September 1969 to 1 June 1970, leading to the award of
PhD from Georgetown University.

Joanna S. ZANGRANDO. The Memorial Bridge; monumental bridge design and
the City Beautiful movement, with Robert M. Vogel, National Museum of
History and Technology, from 1 September 1969 to 1 March 1970, leading
to the award of PhD from the George Washington University.

Program in Anthropology

RicHarp Lunt. Folkloric study of traditional American boatbuilding techniques,
APPENDIX 6. ACADEMIC APPOINTMENTS 195

with Howard I. Chapelle, National Museum of History and Technology, and
Ralph Rinzler, Division of Performing Arts, from 1 September 1969 to 1
September 1970, leading to the award of the PhD from Indiana University.

Program in Environmental Sciences

Dorotuy J. Morton. Developmental physiology of grass seedlings with special
reference to effects of light on corn, with Dr. Robert Weintraub, Radiation
Biology Laboratory, from 1 July 1969 to 31 December 1969, leading to the
award of PhD from the George Washington University.

Program in Evolutionary and Behavioral Biology, Tropical Zones

Marx H. Bernstein. The significance of “quirks” in captive primates, with
Dr. Martin H. Moynihan, Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, from
1 September 1969 to 1 September 1970.

Rosin B. Foster. Fruiting sequences in the tropical rainforest (schedules of food
availability), with Dr. A. Stanley Rand, Smithsonian Tropical Research Insti-
tute, from 1 September 1969 to 1 September 1970.

CuaiM N. Kropacu. Ecology and population structure of the eastern Pacific sea
snake, with Dr. Ira Rubinoff, Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, from
1 August 1969 to 1 August 1970.

Tuomas M. Zaret. Seasonal variation in a tropical freshwater predator-prey
relationship (Thyrionopsis: Ceriodaphnia), with Dr. Martin H. Moynihan,
Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, from 1 July 1969 to 1 July 1970.

Program in Evolutionary and Systematic Biology

Jean T. DEBELL. Electron microscopy of body wall structure of certain marine
worms, with Dr. W. D. Hope, National Museum of Natural History, from
9 October 1969 to 9 October 1970, leading to the award of PhD from the
George Washington University.

T. Gary Gautier. Morphological, stratigraphic and paleoecological relationship
of the bryozoa of the West Texas Permian, with Dr. Richard S. Boardman,
from 1 August 1969 to 31 July 1970, leading to the award of PhD from the
University of Kansas.

RicHarD H. Goopyear. Systematic studies of deep-sea fishes (Malacosteidae),
with Dr. Robert H. Gibbs, National Museum of Natural History, from 25
August 1969 to 25 August 1970, leading to the award of PhD from the
George Washington University.

Wa Ter S. Gray, Jr. Systematic and morphologic studies of Antarctic amphipod
crustacea, with Dr. J. L. Barnard, National Museum of Natural History, from
15 February 1970 to 15 February 1971, leading to the award of PhD from
the George Washington University.

Lynpon Hawkins. Systematic and morphologic studies of the American brac-
onid wasps, with Dr. Richard Froeschner, National Museum of Natural His-
tory, from 1 November 1969 to 30 April 1970, leading to the award of PhD
from the University of Idaho.

Rosert W. Hinps. Evolutionary and morphological studies of fossil bryozoa of
the Gulf Coast, with Dr. Richard S. Boardman, National Museum of Natural
History, from 1 July 1969 to 1 September 1970, leading to the award of PhD
from Columbia University.
196 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1970

CATHERINE J. Kerby. Ecology, histology, embryology, and systematics of marine
worms, with Dr. Meredith Jones, National Museum of Natural History, from
1 August 1969 to 1 August 1970, leading to the award of PhD from the
George Washington University.

Jackson E. Lewis. Evolutionary and morphologic studies of fossil and Recent
decapod crustacea, with Fenner A. Chace, Jr., National Museum of Natural
History, from 1 July 1969 to 1 July 1970, leading to the award of PhD from
Tulane University.

GeraLp R. Noonan. Systematics and zoogeographical relationships of coleop-
teran beetles, with Dr. Paul J. Spangler, National Museum of Natural History,
from 1 October 1969 to 30 September 1970, leading to the award of PhD
from the University of California, Riverside.

Joun S. Peet. Comparative studies of British and American fossil gastropods,
with Dr. Ellis Yochelson, National Museum of Natural History, from 8 Oc-
tober 1969 to 8 October 1970, leading to the award of PhD from University
of Leicester, England.

Program in History of Art and Music

RopertT Rorex. Lady Wun-Chi, a historical study, with Dr. Thomas Lawton,
Freer Gallery of Art, from 1 September 1969 to 1 September 1970, leading to
the award of PhD from Princeton University.

Program in Museum Studies

MiriaM Davipson PLotnicov. Studies in the display and restoration of museum
collections, with John Anglim, Office of Exhibits Programs, from 1 September
1969 to 31 May 1970.

Jon Secer. Research and production of visual displays and film strip recording
packages, with Nathanial Dixon, Office of Academic Programs, from 22 Sep-
tember 1969 to 21 September 1970.

Donna STONE. Research in ethnomusicology techniques of collection mainte-
nance of musical instruments, with John Fesperman, National Museum of
History and Technology, from 1 September 1969 to 1 June 1970.

Kirtr THONGLONGYA. Taxonomic revision of the bats of Thailand, with Dr.
George Watson, National Museum of Natural History, from 8 September 1969
to 7 September 1970.

Rosert Works. Studies in museum administration and the history of American
art, with Marvin Sadik, National Portrait Gallery, from 1 January 1970 to
31 August 1970.

Program in Physical Sciences

Leste Ray Brapy. Studies of atomic nuclear processes associated with produc-
tion of sunshine and starlight, with Dr. Henri Mitler, Smithsonian Astrophysi-
cal Observatory, from 1 July 1969 to 1 July 1970, leading to the award of
PhD from Brandeis University.

Duane Carson. Theoretical calculations of how stars produce light, with Owen
J. Gingerich, Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory, from 1 July 1969 to
30 June 1970, leading to the award of PhD from Harvard University.

Cuunc-CuieH CHENG. Theoretical studies of the flux and energy spectrum of
gamma radiation from the sun, with Dr. G. G. Fazio, Smithsonian Astrophys-
APPENDIX 6. ACADEMIC APPOINTMENTS 197

ical Observatory, from 1 June 1968 to 31 August 1969, leading to the award
of PhD from Harvard University.

Eric G. CureMan. Studies of outer layers of the sun, with Dr. E. H. Avrett,
Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory, from 1 July 1969 to 30 June 1970,
leading to the award of PhD from Harvard University.

J. STEPHEN Duerkr. Studies of the physical effects of outer space on meteorites,
with Dr. Charles A. Lundquist, Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory, from
1 July 1969 to 1 July 1970, leading to the award of PhD from the Massa
chusetts Institute of Technology.

JonaTHAN E. Grinpiay. Theoretical studies of cosmic ray origin, with Dr. G. G.
Fazio, Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory, from 1 July 1969 to 1 July
1970, leading to the award of PhD from Harvard University.

Rosert L. Kurucz. Theoretical studies of particularly hot stars, with Dr.
Wolfgang Kalkofen, Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory, from 1 July 1969
to 30 June 1970, leading to the award of PhD from Harvard University.

Evia M. LersowirTz. Studies of dynamics and evolution of planetary nebulae,
with Dr. Charles A. Lundquist, Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory, from
1 July 1969 to 30 June 1970, leading to the award of PhD from Harvard
University.

TimotHy L. STEPHENS. Studies of effects of light radiation on hydrogen gas,
with Professor A. Dalgarno, Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory, from
1 September 1969 to 30 June 1970, leading to the award of PhD from Har-
vard University.

JosepH VeverKA. Photopolarimetry of satellites and minor planets, with Dr.
Fred Whipple, Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory, from 1 July 1969 to
1 February 1970, leading to the award of PhD from Harvard University.

Summer 1969 Undergraduate Research
Participation Appointments

Names marked with an asterisk indicate students whose research was supported
through grants from the National Science Foundation’s Undergraduate Research
Participation Program (grants GY4240: Social Sciences, and GY 4549: Biolog-
ical Sciences).

Program in American History

BarBARA BLANCHARD Bowie, Skidmore College. Interpretation through com-
puter applications of nineteenth-century political symbols, with Harold Skram-
stad, American Studies.

ELIZABETH REA Dutcan, New Mexico Highlands University. The original prints
of Theodor de Bry and copies by Bernard Picart, with Karil Dreyfuss, National
Museum of History and Technology.

Epwarp S. Haynes, Duke University. Development of naval uniforms, with
Craddock R. Goins, Jr., National Museum of History and Technology.

Cuerry DesoraAH Maurer, Wells College. Urban design and transportation
systems, with Dr. Wilcomb E. Washburn, American Studies.

Peter N. Munsrinec, University of Michigan. A study of Revolutionary War
military leaders, with Robert Stewart, National Portrait Gallery.
198 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1970

Tuomas Raysor, Jr., University of Virginia. Research in authentication of
military uniforms in the national collections, with Craddock R. Goins, Jr.,
National Museum of History and Technology.

Bryant YounaG, Yale University. Urban design and transportation systems, with
Dr. Wilcomb E. Washburn, American Studies.

Program in Anthropology

*James Bare, Johns Hopkins University. Data Processing in linguistics; the
tonal system of the Amoy dialect of China, with Dr. Paul Voorhis, National
Museum of Natural History.

*CHRISTINE DIANE Cooper, Wellesley College. Analysis of an archeological
collection from Central Kansas, with Dr. Waldo R. Wedel, National Museum
of Natural History.

*Mary Frances GuptILi, University of Arizona. Research in dream texts from
Zinacantan, Mexico, contributing to the first Tzotzil dictionary, with Dr.
Robert M. Laughlin, National Museum of Natural History.

*LauRA May Kaptan, Rice University. Sex prediction determined by compari-
son of bone length and joint size in long bones, with Dr. Lucile E. St. Hoyme,
National Museum of Natural History.

*THOMAS WHITNEY KAVANAGH, University of New Mexico. Classification of
Plains Indian legging traits, with Dr. William C. Sturtevant, National Museum
of Natural History.

Karen ANN Larson, Raymond College. Research in Micronesian ethnohistory,
with Dr. Saul H. Riesenberg, National Museum of Natural History.

*PETER WARREN Ocus, Yale University. Analysis of the various areas of native
geographical and navigational knowledge from the Island of Puluwat, with
Dr. Saul H. Riesenberg, National Museum of Natural History.

*CATHERINE SEASE, Bryn Mawr College. Sindhi textiles, costume, and costume
accessories of West Pakistan, with Dr. Eugene I. Knez, National Museum of
Natural History.

*SAMUEL MARTIN SEIFFER, City College of New York. A survey of the anthro-
pological profession and social dissent, with Dr. Sam Stanley, National
Museum of Natural History.

*JupIrH ANN SHULIMSON, University of Wisconsin Early collectors of African
materials: a biographical survey, with Dr. Gordon D. Gibson, National Mu-
seum of Natural History.

*JoHn ANDERSON VAN Ness, New College. Linguistic notes of John Harring-
ton, linguist of the Bureau of Ethnology, with Margaret Blaker, National
Museum of Natural History.

Program in Environmental Sciences

*Harvey J. ALEXANDER, University of Miami. Development of avian capture
techniques, with Dr. Francis S. L. Williamson, Chesapeake Bay Center for
Environmental Studies.

*ROSEMARIE C. Atisio, St. Joseph College. Sexual patterns of Solenodon para-
doxus and Dinomys branickii, with Larry R. Collins, National Zoological Park.

*Prccy JEAN Arps, Cornell University. Problems in germination of Arabidop-
sis thaliana, with Dr. William H. Klein, Radiation Biology Laboratory.

*Ropert A. AsxkINns, University of Michigan. Comparative ecology of the
Hooded Warbler (Wilsonian citrina) and Kentucky Warbler (Oporarnis for-
APPENDIX 6. ACADEMIC APPOINTMENTS 199

mosus), with Dr. Francis S. L. Williamson, Chesapeake Bay Center for En-
vironmental Studies.

*NELSON JAY Bassin, Oberlin College. Distribution of ice-rafted rocks in the
South Pacific determined from sea-floor photographs, with Dr. Thomas E.
Simkin, Oceanographic Sorting Center.

*SUZANNE Marie Bocpansk1, Trinity College. Histochemical applications in
diagnosis of tumors of lower animals, with Dr. John C. Harshbarger, National
Museum of Natural History.

*Douctias H. Boucuer, Yale College. Measuring human impact on ecological
systems, with Dr. Richard S. Cowan, National Museum of Natural History.

*Davip A. Couzin, University of Aberdeen. The effects of shading on plant
growth, with Dr. William H. Klein, Radiation Biology Laboratory.

*Betty JEAN Gray, Mt. Holyoke College. Population density study of foraging
behavior in the cardinal, with Dr. Francis S. I.. Williamson, Chesapeake Bay
Center for Environmental Studies.

*JamMeEs S. Harper III, University of Pennsylvania. Survey of enteric pathogens
in collection animals at the National Zoological Park, with Dr. Robert M.
Sauer, National Zoological Park.

*Howarp M. Laten, Baldwin-Wallace College. Study of the intestinal flora of
the Boidae, with Dr. Clinton W. Gray, National Zoological Park.

*Mark A. Mostow, Harvard College. Survey of small mammals at the Bay
Center and their relationships to vegetation types, with Dr. Helmut K.
Buechner, Chesapeake Bay Center for Environmental Studies.

*Joun M. Peacu, St. Lawrence University. Concepts of marine ecology as ap-
plied in oceanographic engineering, with Dr. Francis S. L. Williamson, Chesa-
peake Bay Center for Environmental Studies.

*STEVEN E. Reyno.ps, University of California at Davis. Research in the prac-
tice of veterinary medicine in the exotic animals, with Dr. Clinton W. Gray,
National Zoological Park.

*JoEL F. Zipp, University of Wisconsin. Determination of paleoenvironments of
the Outer Banks, North Carolina, with Dr. Jack W. Pierce, National Museum
of Natural History.

Program in Evolutionary and Behavioral Biology, Tropical Zones

*WILLIAM F. Graney, University of Delaware. Analysis of the criteria for web
location of the spider, Arogiope argentata, with Dr. Michael H. Robinson,
Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute.

*RosBertT Krern, Cornell University. Habit discrimination of Agglychnis, with
Dr. A. Stanley Rand, Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute.

DeExsoraAH LEE, Wells College. Physiology of tropical marine fishes, with Dr. Ira
Rubinoff, Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute.

*WayneE L. Smiru, University of California at Santa Barbara. Comparison of
germinated species pairs of invertebrates found in the Atlantic and Pacific
Oceans of the Isthmus of Panama, with Roberta W. Rubinoff, Smithsonian
Tropical Research Institute.

Program in Evolutionary and Systematic Biology

*Mary R. Ditman, George Washington University. Study of micromorphologi-
cal character of Hymenoxys and related genera, with Dr. Kittie F. Parker,
National Museum of Natural History.
900 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1970

*Paut E. Drez, Old Dominion College. Field study of Pleistocene paleoecology
in southeastern Virginia, with Dr. Clayton E. Ray, National Museum of Nat-
ural History.

*Susan HersHey, Charles County Community College. Feeding behavior and
morphology of larval and adult sipunculid worms, with Dr. Mary E. Rice,
National Museum of Natural History.

*KATHERINE H. Lewis, University of Miami. Viability of ostracods eggs follow-
ing consumption and defecation by fish, with Dr. Louis S. Kornicker, National
Museum of Natural History.

*SusAN PLATKIN, University of Maryland. Compilation of data for the moth
genus Urodus and completion of a catalogue for one species of the genus, with
Dr. W. Donald Duckworth, National Museum of Natural History.

*CLARA P. SperapPANt, University of Maryland. Primitive and advanced charac-
ters of the leaves of the Fagaceae, with Dr. Leo J. Hickey, National Museum
of Natural History.

*Mary Ann Turner, Indiana University. Morphologic characters of specific
importance in the South African Dicynodontis, with Dr. Nicholas Hotton ITI,
National Museum of Natural History.

*Epwarp J. WaLL, Muhlenberg College. Study of Pleistocene bivalve mollusk
fauna of a Mississippi mudlump island, with Dr. Thomas R. Waller, National
Museum of Natural History.

*STEVEN J. ZEHREN, University of Wisconsin. A comparative study of the
osteology and anatomy of teleost fishes, with Dr. Stanley H. Weitzman, Na-
tional Museum of Natural History.

Program in History of Art and Music

Ronatp Brucato, Pratt Institute. Magic realism in painting: 1930-1950, with
Robert T. Davis, National Collection of Fine Arts.

Rocer W. Evans, Stetson University. Eighteenth-century keyboard instruments,
with John T. Fesperman, National Museum of History and Technology.

James E. Furman, Claremont College. The art of Maurice Prendergast, with
Robert T. Davis, National Collection of Fine Arts.

Janice H. Hertenstein, Michigan State University. History and techniques of

printmaking in America, with Donald R. McClelland, National Collection of
Fine Arts.

Program in History of Science and Technology

*BERNARD C. Dae, Kenyon College. Historical and social interrelationships of
the mints of Asia Minor, with Vladimir Clain-Stefanelli, National Museum
of History and Technology.

*Minc M. Ivory, Tufts University. Problems of access and interpretation for
the Joseph Henry Papers, with Dr. Nathan Reingold, Joseph Henry Papers.
*Ropert O. Lapipus, Ohio University. The Sputnik and its repercussions: an

historical analysis, with Frederick C. Durant III, National Air and Space
Museum.
*Howarp Jay Miviarp, Michigan State University. An historical survey of pho-

tographic processes and techniques, with Eugene Ostroff, National Museum of
History and Technology.
APPENDIX 6. ACADEMIC APPOINTMENTS 201

*Davip ALAN RosENBERG, The American University. The sloop of war Sara-
toga: verification of data in the national collection, with Philip K. Lundeberg,
National Museum of History and Technology.

*JouHN F. K. Tyner, Trinity College. Development of the P. K. Tomajan Col-
lection catalogue, with Dr. Elizabeth Harris, National Museum of History
and Technology.

*WILLIAM A. Watson, George Washington University. Development of electron
injection techniques in the McMillan synchrotron, with Dr. Philip W. Bishop,
National Museum of History and Technology.

Program in Museum Studies

LaurEL L. Arnoip, Mount Holyoke College. Research in conservation tech-
niques, with Charles H. Olin, National Collection of Fine Arts and National
Portrait Gallery.

James P. BatrcHetor, Williams College. Research in conservation techniques,
with Charles H. Olin, National Collection of Fine Arts and National Portrait
Gallery.

Susan B. Kerry, Mount Holyoke College. History and techniques of print-
making in America, with Robert G. Stewart, National Portrait Gallery.

Program In Physical Sciences

Tuomas L. Marzetta, Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Research in
electron microprobe laboratory instrumentation refinement activities, with Dr.
William G. Melson, National Museum of Natural History.

Summer 1969 Graduate Research
Participation Appointments

Program in American History

Georce L. MitcHe i, University of Chicago. The image of the city in Ameri-
can silent film, with Dr. Wilcomb E. Washburn, American Studies Program.

Program in Anthropology

Raymonp P. DeMattte, University of Chicago. Studies in American Indian
linguistics—Siouan groups, with Dr. Paul Voorhis and Margaret C. Blaker,
National Museum of Natural History.

Jane I. Lumpkin, University of Alabama. Identification of artifacts from Thai-
land and Pakistan, with Dr. Eugene I. Knez, National Museum of Natural
History.

Jutt Erten Marsuatr, American University. Study of culture and population
in Africa, with Dr. Gordon D. Gibson, National Museum of Natural History.

Program in Evolutionary and Behavioral Biology, Tropical Zones

YaeL Devora Dustin, University of Florida. Ecology and behavior of spiders,
with Dr. Martin H. Moynihan, Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute.
202 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1970

Program in Evolutionary and Systematic Biology

Sana Isa ATALLAH, University of Connecticut. Mammals of the eastern Medi-
terranean region: their ecology, systematics, and zoogeographical relationships,
with Dr. Henry W. Setzer, National Museum of Natural History.

Program in Physical Sciences

Dovuctas Netson, University of South Carolina. Clay mineralogy of Atlantic
project, with Dr. Jack W. Pierce, National Museum of Natural History.

Visiting Scholars

ALFRED R. Henperson. A biographical study of Dr. Charles Land and his role
in the development of dentistry and medicine, with Dr. Robert P. Multhauf,
National Museum of History and Technology, from 15 June 1969 to 15 June
1970.

Date W. Ricuey. Conservation problems of Chinese minor bronzes of the Chou
and Han periods, with W. Thomas Chase, Freer Gallery of Art, from 1 Sep-
tember 1969 to 1 September 1970.

WiiuiamM Winc. A comprehensive study of drug use, with Philip C. Ritterbush,
Office of Academic Programs, from 16 February 1970 to 15 May 1971.
Appendix 7

PUBLIC AFFAIRS

News Releases Issued

Texas Folklorist Helps Plan Take-Over of D.C.

CBS Labs Give Smithsonian Original Field-Sequential Color Equipment

FBI Building Site Fertile Spot for Smithsonian Archeologist
Henry O. Tanner Exhibition To Open at National Collection
of Fine Arts
Henry O. Tanner Biography
Smithsonian and Yugoslavs Sign Research Agreement
National Collection of Fine Arts Will Present Four Summer Lectures
Smithsonian Exhibit Chronicles Powell’s Colorado River Trek
Works of Three Women Featured in Photo Shows Opening 17 July
Zoo Police Get Pay Raise
Smithsonian To Exhibit Works of Richard Neutra
Smithsonian To Stage Satirical Musical Of Thee I Sing
in Theatre-On-The-Mall
Smithsonian To Exhibit Work of Ten Afro-American Artists
Works of Pacesetting Italian Architects Going on Display
at Smithsonian
Dr. Wunder Taking Leave of Absence from Cooper-Hewitt Museum
of Design
Dr. Robert P. Higgins New Director of Mediterranean Marine
Sorting Center
Tent Show Cancellation
The Concerned Photographer Exhibition To End Three-Month Run
Smithsonian To Present Exhibit of Top British Craft Designs
Smithsonian Children’s Theater Will Present 18th-Century Fable
United States To Show Four Team Exhibits at Youth Art Biennial
in Paris
Smithsonian To Display Student Design Exhibit Color Me Mankind
Cooper-Hewitt Museum To Trace History of the Chair
Time Magazine Cover Show Is Extended at Smithsonian
Carolina Pottery Shop Salvaged by Smithsonian
Smithsonian Appoints Development Director
R.A.F. To Present a Hawker Hurricane to Smithsonian
Air and space Museum
“Pharmacy in Prints” Shows Artist’s View of Medicine
Professor Joshua C. Taylor To Head Smithsonian Museum
Museums at Smithsonian Institution Holding 57 Art Exhibitions

no

—7-6
—7-6
—7-6

oo rh
OW HO

8-7-69

8-7-69
10-7-69
15-7-69
15-7-69
15-7-69
17-7-69
18-7-69

23-7-69
29-7-69

30-7-69

31-7-69

31-7-69
5-8-69
8—8-69

12-8-69

14-8-69
904 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1970

Smithsonian Shops Will Display Rugs Woven by Near East Nomads

Smithsonian To Exhibit Scientific Illustrations
National Collection of Fine Arts To Show Modern Paintings
by Jannis Spyropoulos

National Collection of Fine Arts To Show Film on United States

Artist Moses Soyer

Johnson Wax Survey of “Objects: USA” at National Collection

of Fine Arts
Alyce Simon’s “‘Atomic” Art To Be Shown at Smithsonian
Smithsonian Design Museum Moving to Carnegie Mansion
Smithsonian Names Director for Cooper-Hewitt Museum
Elaborate Detailing Marks Gracious Carnegie Mansion
Smithsonian To Exhibit Two-Pound Lunar Rock

Cooper-Hewitt To Exhibit Original Drawings of Brighton Pavilion

Smithsonian First Public Showing of Two-Pound Lunar Rock

Whistler Landscapes and Seascapes To Be Exhibited at Freer Gallery

Talk on Japanese Porcelain To Open Annual Freer Gallery
Lecture Series
Volcanoes Explained in Smithsonian Exhibit

Varied Uses of Plastic on Display in New Smithsonian Exhibition

5-9-69
9-9-69

99-69

10—9-69

10—9-69
11—9-69
12—9-69
12—9-69
12-9-69
15-9-69
16—-9-69
16—9-69
18—9-69

18—9-69
26—9-69
26-9-69

Restored Pre-Revolutionary Organ Shown in Musical Instruments Hall 30—9-69

Smithsonian To Exhibit 11-Foot Long Indian Tiger

Smithsonian Encounter Focuses on the Potomac River Problems
Smithsonian Exhibition To Honor Noted Experimental Printmaker

Air and Space Art Showing at Arts and Industries Building

“Energy Conversion” Show Traces Development of Power Sources

30-9-69
3-10-69
8-10-69
8-10-69
8-10-69

Barbara Morgan Featured in 4th Women, Cameras, and Images Exhibit 8-10-69

Smithsonian Scientist Finds Fossil Forgery
Craftsmanship and Genius Merged in Saint-Gaudens’ Art
National Portrait Gallery To Show 60 Reliefs by

Augustus Saint-Gaudens
Cooper-Hewitt Museum Marks Rembrandt Anniversary
Smithsonian Scientists To Study Tooth Decay Origins
African Concert Will Benefit Anacostia Neighborhood Museum
One Room New England School Reconstructed in Smithsonian
Smithsonian Shop To Display Welded Animal Sculptures
Smithsonian Christmas Shop Will Show Yule Traditions
Smithsonian Panel To Discuss Problems of Chesapeake Bay
Netherlands Concert Group To Perform at Smithsonian
Smithsonian Museum Shop To Show Pakistani Crafts
Smithsonian Will Exhibit Yugoslav Tapestries, Prints
Freer Will Present Lecture on Chinese Domestic Arts
Smithsonian To Sage Festival of Works of Georges Méliés
A Long-Range Listing of Performing Arts Division Schedule
Smithsonian To Present Major Photo Exhibit

“Camera and Human Facade”

Smithsonian Exhibit To Examine Transit Problems and Promise
Progressive Jazz Concert To Be Given by Lee Morgan Quintet

Smithsonian Staging Festival of Georges Méliés’ Films
Two World Music Premieres Scheduled
Smithsonian Will Present Milton Avery Retrospective

9-10-69
17-10-69

17-10-69
17-10-69
20-10-69
24-10-69
27-10-69
28-10-69
30-10-69
30-10-69
31-10-69
31-10-69

4-11-69

4-11-69

5-11-69
12-11-69

14-11-69
17-11-69
19-11-69
21-11-69
24-11-69
25-11-69
APPENDIX 7. PUBLIC AFFAIRS

Smithsonian To Present Informal Concert 3 December

Moratorium Day Attendance All-Time High at Museum

Woodrow Wilson Center Now Taking Fellowship Applications

Smithsonian Photo Exhibition To Feature Own Collection

Smithsonian Panel To Examine DDT Effects

Smithsonian Sponsoring “Sing Out” for Children

Smithsonian Concert Postponed ’Till 5 January

Smithsonian Shop Shows Works of Twenty D.C. Artists

Registration Open for Courses at Smithsonian

Key Editorial-Business Posts Filled for Smithsonian Magazine

Smithsonian To Give Play by Former Drug Addicts

“Story of Jazz’ Concert Presented by Benny Powell Septet

Smithsonian Sets Photo Show of Dead Sea Scrolls

Smithsonian Exhibition Traces ‘““Romans in Ancient Romania”’

Freer Schedules Lecture on Near Eastern Archive

Smithsonian Will Exhibit 115 Early American Prints

Smithsonian Puppet Theatre To Give ‘Hansel and Gretel”

Mrs. Nixon Presents Inaugural Ball Gown to Smithsonian
First Ladies Collection

Smithsonian To Sponsor Program of West Indies Dance, Music

First Decade of Laser Technology Reviewed in Major Exhibition

Smithsonian Plans Seminar by Former Drug Addicts

Panel To Focus on Solid Waste Disposal Problems

Teaching Exhibitions Opened by National Portrait Gallery

Indians and Arkansas Share Spotlight for Annual American
Folklife Festival

Exhibition of Yugoslav Tapestries, Prints Extended

Smithsonian Museums Holding Forty Art Exhibitions

Shop Exhibition Will Honor Craftsmen of Montana

Smithsonian Institution To Show Apollo Space Program Art

Meeting of the Board of Regents (28 January 1970)

Freer Will Present Lecture on Egyptian Decorative Arts

Photographic Exhibitions Opening in February

Exhibition Honors Famous British Naturalist Alfred Russel Wallace

Barbara Holmquest To Lecture on Early 19th-Century Pianos

Smithsonian Lindbergh Plane Returns to Japan

“Encounter” Panel To Discuss Vanishing Wilderness Life

Biography—S. Dillon Ripley

Play on Rehabilitation of Drug Addicts Repeated

Drawing Society’s New York Regional Show at Cooper-Hewitt Museum

Smithsonian To Show Prints of German Pre-Expressionist
Lovis Corinth
Smithsonian To Exhibit Washington Memorabilia
Two Doubleheader Jazz Concerts Are Scheduled at Smithsonian
Student Designers’ Concepts for Leisure Going on Display
at Smithsonian
Dr. Armand Hammer—Biography
Flag That Flew To Moon Displayed at Smithsonian
Photographs by Steven Wilson Will Be Shown at Smithsonian
Freer Gallery Will Present Lecture of Early United States Trade
with Orient

205

26-11-69
26-11-69
28-11-69
28-11-69
1-12-69
4—| 2-69
4-12-69
8-12-69
10-12-69
12-12-69
12-12-69
12—12-69
19-12-69
22-12-69
30-12-69
31-12-69

5-1-70

7-1-70
9-1-70
14-1-70
15-1-70
16-1-70
16-1-70

19-1-70
19-1-70
27-1-70
27-1-70
30-1-70

on
|
Ss)
|

~I

oO

| eel
SS a aS aS mS aS

Wate
WE Ie Ge Mea ie

es
or ee
OQ) Oo oo ce} ©) ©&
206 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1970

Weaver Harpsichord Concert Will Be Repeated 27-2-70
Study Shows Shift from Hunting to Farming Hurt Health

of Ancient Men 2-3-70
Smithsonian Going West To Help Californians Find Their Culture 2-3-70
Smithsonian To Exhibit Hammer Collection of Modern French

and Old Masters Paintings 4-3-70
Panel To Look at Government’s Role in Environmental Policy 4-3-70
30 Millionth Visitor to Museum of History and Technology 5-3-70
“Artistic Forms Have Acquired Explosive Dimensions,’ Says Kepes 5-3-70
Benefit Postponement 6—-3-70
Scandinavian Countries, Smithsonian Cooperate on Major Postal Exhibit 9-3—70
Objects from Football to Peace Button Depict Society for

Smithsonian Capsule 10-3-—70
Russell Family of Galax, Virginia, To Present Dulcimer Concert 11-3-70
Floridian Is 30 Millionth Visitor to Museum of History

and Technology 11-3-70
23 Artists Represented in “Explorations” at National Collection

of Fine Arts 13-3-70
Puppet Theatre To Present ‘‘Peter and the Wolf” 16-3-70
Art and Technology Join in “Explorations,” an Exhibit by

Smithsonian and MIT 16-3-70
Art Blakey Quintet To Present Jazz Concert at Smithsonian 17-3-70

48 Key Smithsonian Works of Art To Be Reproduced, Circulated 243-70
Advanced Indian Civilizations in the Americas are Traced to

Members of Round-Headed Race 24-3-70
Playboy Fashion Director To Stage Men’s Fashion Show

at Smithsonian 27-3-70
Smithsonian To Show Elliot Erwitt “Photographs and

Anti-Photographs” 27-3-70
Smithsonian Shops To Exhibit Hand-Carved ““Oom Pah Pah Circus” 30-3-—70
Smithsonian Museum To Exhibit Tapestries from Czechoslovakia 31-3-70
Scholar To Lecture at Freer Gallery on Old Sites, Festivities of Kyoto 1—4—70
Anacostia Museum Presents D.C. Art Association Show 1—4—70
Smithsonian To Present Dutch Trio on 13 April 2-4—70
Friends, Ex-Associates Giving Painting of Truman to National

Portrait Gallery 6—4-70
First Major Exhibition of Indian Chintz at Cooper-Hewitt Museum

in New York 9-4-70
Wilson Center Sets Deadline for Fellowship Application 10—4—70
“Encounter” Panel To Look at Pollution Costs 144-70
Smithsonian To Give Film, Discussion Programs as

Follow-up to “Earth Day” 144-70

Ray Haynes Quintet Will Present Smithsonian Jazz Concert 25 April 16—4—70
National Collection of Fine Arts Schedules Children’s Fete on 2 May  17-—4—70

Four Troupes To Perform at Museum 174-70
New Smithsonian Exhibit Traces Political Role of Women in U.S. 20—4—70
Archives of American Art Comes to Smithsonian 23-4—-70
Archives Makes Art Research Easy—Documents All on Microfilm 23-—4-70
Museum Education Day 4-5-70

Smithsonian Associates Program To Boomerang on Monument Grounds 4—5—70
Hot Cycle Research Aircraft Joins Smithsonian Institution 5-5-70
APPENDIX 7. PUBLIC AFFAIRS

Smithsonian Museum Schedules Sky Spectacle on 9 May
Smithsonian Museum Schedules National Glassware Exhibition
The Nevins and Parkman Prizes of the Society of American Historians
Air Force Art Show at Smithsonian
Exhibit Shows Influences of Spanish on American Culture
Lloyd McNeil, Capitol Ballet Company to Premiere
‘Washington Suite”
Mall Sky Spectacle Is Planned by Smithsonian on Saturday, 16 May
Composition Premiered at Smithsonian Is Given First Foreign
Performance
Smithsonian Honors Mrs. Eugene Meyer for Devoted Service to
Freer Gallery
Multimedia Soft Rock Musical To Be Presented
National Collection of Fine Arts Continues Public Tours This Summer
Recommendations Made To Save Hawaiian Endangered Species
African Costume Paintings Shown
Smithsonian Exhibit Honors Gutenberg
Smithsonian Regents’ Spring Meeting
Teaching Exhibition Scheduled by National Portrait Gallery
Smithsonian Museum To Unveil Portrait of Robert F. Kennedy
Winslow Homer Exhibition Focuses on Artist’s Popular Early Works
Naval Research Lab Gives First Radar Equipment to Smithsonian
Special Exhibition Traces Manhattan’s Historic Trip
Artist Leonard Baskin Being Accorded Mid-Career Exhibition
at Smithsonian
Puppet Theatre Opens Summer Variety Show
High School Students Needed as Smithsonian Tour Guides
Early Bird Twin To Be Presented to Smithsonian

Newsfeatures Issued

Wheels of Progress Haven’t Caught 102-Year-Old Pennsylvania
Factory

American Artist Rediscovered in Washington Exhibition

Amateurs Can Help Scientist Search for Dinosaur Fossils

A Change of Clothes for Each First Lady Is Curator’s Goal

Where Have All the Wild Flowers Gone?

Flowering Death Strikes Japanese Bamboo Plants

Ecologist Warns of Effects of Environmental Ruin on Young

Topping 100th Birthday Celebration Will Challenge Bicentennial
Planners

Man Probably Villain in Ice Age Mammal Extinction

“Radio Smithsonian” Programs

8-6-70
10-6-70

26-11-69
15-12-69

1-1-70
14-1-70
9-2-70
2-3-70
17-3-70

20-—4—70
15-6-70

1. The Infestation of Starfish in the Pacific. Paul Morris, Violinist. Tibetan

Art.

2. ‘Jumbo Mumbo”—Conservation and Ecology in Ceylon. Color Me Man-

kind.
SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1970

The Festival of American Folklife.

Music—Concerto for Two Organs in F. Theme and Variations.

Frederic Tanner’s Role in Art. Hurricane Fighter Plane. Ladies’ Bathing
Garments.

Archeology in South America. National Portrait Gallery.

Atomic Art. The British Crafts Show.

The Concerned Photographer. The Sacred Grove. The Doll House.

Meteorites and Moon Rocks. Stitchery.

Encounter. The Deep Discoverers.

Smithsonian School Aids. The Bahar River Tiger. Grasses as Food and
Medicine.

Music at the Smithsonian. The Exhibits Story. In the Architect’s World.

A Christmas Program. f

A Concert Program.

The Art of Whistler. The Anacostia Neighborhood Museum.
The Frozen Wing. Primate Biology and Evolution.

Public Broadcasting. Civilization.

On the Trail of the Dinosaur. Syntagma Musicum.

The Continental Motion. Mineralogy.

A Gift to the Nation. Objects: USA. A House of Foam.
An Oral History of Aviation. NASA Space Art.
Frankincense and Myrrh. Piéces de Clavecin en Concerts.
The First Ladies’ Gowns. Music of the Political Campaigns.
Perceptions IT.

Freeze-Drying. Flora North America.

Ensembles Musical de Buenos Atres.

China and the Porcelain Trade. Reading Is Fun-damental.
The National Zoological Park.

Laser 10.

Smithsonian. The Collection of Meteorites.

Orchestra Sinfonia dt Como. The Hammer Collection.

The Chesapeake Bay Center for Environmental Studies. The Flowering
Death.

The Art of Barbara Holmquest. Privateers: Opportunists or Pirates?
The Machine Left Behind. Archeology Beneath the Sea.

Music at the Smithsonian.

The Concept of Honor. American Seacoast Fortifications.
Paleolithic-Era Burial Remains: The First Clues. The Kalihar Bushmen.
The Smithsonian Puppet Theater.

Women’s Liberation—From Suffrage to Careers. Tektite II: An Undersea
Experiment.

The History and Folk Music of Peggy Seeger and Ewan McColl.
Pollution in Perspective. Butterfly Collecting.
Greek Archeology. Foraminifera: Indicator Organisms.

Russian Porcelain. Pleasure of Minerals as Objects dart.
APPENDIX 7. PUBLIC AFFAIRS
Public Inquiries

Dial-a-Museum calls
Dial-a-Satellite calls
Calls for information
Letter requests for information

209

27,000
150,000
27,500
9,150
Appendix 8

SMITHSONIAN EXHIBITS

SPECIAL EXHIBITS

History and Technology Building

American Holidays—Appomatox

American Holidays—
Washington/Lincoln

American Holidays—Winter

Archeological Finds

Atomic Art

Bethlehem Steel

Captain Buck’s Paintings

Color Me Mankind

Demand for Water

Energy Conversion

Gurnsey-Jersey Stamps

Historic Site Archeology

Laser 10

Méliés Film Festival

Model T Ford

Napoleonic Coins and Medals

People Figures

Pharmacy in Prints

Photography—Elliot Erwitt

Photography—Hosee/ Johnson

Roots of California Culture

Scandinavian Stamps

Ship Models

Ten Modern Italian Architects

The Camera and the Human Facade

The Works of Richard Neutra

Weather (Philately)

Westward to Promontory

Women, Cameras, and Images,
Parts II-IV

Women and Politics

Natural History Building

A Heritage in Peril—Alaska’s
Vanishing Totems

African Art

Armand Hammer

Daco Roman Traces in Romania

210

Dead Sea Scrolls, Parts I and II
Library Show (Malay Archipelago)
The Indomitable Major

The World Beneath the Sea
Volcanos and Volcanism
APPENDIX 8. SMITHSONIAN EXHIBITS i
Arts and Industries Building
British Designer Craftsmen New Concepts in Leisure
Contemporary Black American Artists Plastic as Plastic
Contemporary Tapestries and Polish Folk Art
Graphics—Yugoslavia Scientific Illustrators
Johannes Gutenberg Toledo Glass
Lovis Corinth Urban Transit
Moon Rock
National Air and Space Museum
Apollo Art USAF Show
Anacostia Neighborhood Museum
Rats—Man’s Invited Affliction The Douglass Years
PERMANENT EXHIBITIONS
History and Technology Building
Agriculture Graphic Arts
Armed Forces Chronology—Navy Hall of Photography
Autos and Coaches Iron and Steel
Everyday Life in the American Past Philately
Flag Hall Political History
Natural History Building
Fossil Fishes Prehistoric Peoples of North America

Ice Age Mammals Whale (Life in the Sea)
Physical Geology
Appendix 9

FINANCIAL STATEMENT
30 JUNE 1970

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
Summary of Grants and Contracts
Year Ended 30 June 1970

Total Grants Contracts
Department of Health, $ 325,832 $ 311,119 $ 14,713
Education, and Welfare
Department of Defense 1,085,685 46,343 1,039,342
National Aeronautics and 6,560,854 3,780,531 2,780,323
Space Administration
National Science Foundation 2,246,241 283,884 1,962,357
Other 606,554 107,742 498,812
Total grants and contracts $10,825,166 $ 4,529,619 $ 6,295,547

Summary of Endowment and Similar Funds Investments
Book Values at 30 June 1970

Total Freer Fund Other
Short-term bonds $ 1,909,345 $ 1,121,352 $ 787,993
Medium-term bonds 1,494,486 877,426 617,060
Long-term bonds 9,349,386 5,228,216 4,121,170
Preferred stocks 281,484 205,796 75,688
Common stocks 17,178,444 5,749,008 11,429,436
Total $30,213,145 $13,181,798 $17,031,347

PAW
APPENDIX 9. FINANCIAL STATEMENT 213

PEAT, MARWICK, MITCHELL & CO.

CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS
1025 CONNECTICUT AVENUE, NW
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20036

The Board of Regents
Smithsonian Institution:

We have examined the balance sheet of private funds of Smith-
sonian Institution as of 30 June 1970 and the related statement of
changes in fund balances for the year then ended. Our examination
was made in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards,
and accordingly included such tests of the accounting records and
such other auditing procedures as we considered necessary in the
circumstances.

In our opinion, the accompanying statement of changes in fund
balances presents fairly the operations of the unrestricted private
funds of Smithsonian Institution for the year ended 30 June 1970,
in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles; and
with respect to all other funds, subject to the matters referred to in
note 1, the accompanying balance sheet of private funds and the
related statement of changes in fund balances present fairly the
assets and fund balances of Smithsonian Institution at 30 June 1970
and changes in fund balances resulting from cash transactions of the
private funds for the year then ended, all on a basis consistent with
that of the preceding year.

PEAT, Marwick, MITCHELL & Co.

22 October 1970
914 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1970

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

BALANCE SHEET OF PRIVATE FUNDS 30 JUNE 1970

Assets

Current funds:
Cash:
In U. S. Treasury
In banks and on hand

Total cash

Receivables:
Accounts $ 349,484
Advances—travel and other 146,269
Reimbursements—grants and contracts

1,536,516

Inventories at net realizable value

Investments—stocks and bonds at cost (market
value $2,900,264)

Prepaid expense

Deferred magazine subscription expenses (note 2)

Equipment—museum shops (less accumulated
depreciation of $49,932)

Total current funds

Endowment and similar funds:
Cash
Note receivable
Investments—stocks and bonds at cost (market value
$29,456,568)
Loan to U.S. Treasury in perpetuity
Real estate (at cost or appraised value at date of gift) (note 3)

Total endowment and similar funds

See accompanying notes to financial statements.

$ 49,599
168,225

217,824

2,032,269
544,413
3,409,426
39,541
267,300

64,115

$ 6,574,888

77,533
96,934

30,213,145
1,000,000
1,760,448

$33,148,060
APPENDIX 9. FINANCIAL STATEMENT

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
BALANCE SHEET OF PRIVATE FUNDS 30 JUNE 1970

Liabilities and Fund Balances

Current funds:
Accounts payable
Accrued liabilities
Deferred magazine subscription income
Unrestricted fund balance
Restricted fund balances:
Gifts
Grants
Contracts

Unexpended income:
Freer
Other

Total current funds

Endowment and similar funds:
Mortgage note payable (note 3)
Fund balances:
Endowment funds—income restricted:
Freer
Other

Current funds reserved as an endowment—
income unrestricted

Commitment (note 4)

Total endowment and similar funds

$ 1,566,028
108,330

177,814

434,873

354,868

13,188,994

13,214,651

219

$ 968,933
63,986
1,030,115
1,869,941

1,852,172

789,741

$ 6,574,888

310,697

26,403,645

6,433,718

$33,148,060
SMITHSONIAN

PRIVATE FUNDS

Statement of Changes in Fund Balances

Year Ended 30 June 1970

Balance at beginning of year
Adjustment—accrued interest

Adjustment balance at beginning of year

Additions:

Grants and contracts, net of refunds
Investment income
Gifts and bequests
Gross profit on sales
Rental
Dues and fees
Reimbursement from grantors or contractors
Other
Net gains (loss) on sales and
exchanges of investments

Total additions

Deductions (additions) :
Expenditures:
Salaries and _ benefits:
Administrative
Research
Purchases for collection
Travel and transportation
Equipment and facilities
Supplies and materials
Rents and utilities
Communication
Contractual services
Computer rental
Promotion and advertising
Depreciation
Administrative expenditures applicable
to other funds
Reduction of inventory to net realizable value

Total deductions

Transfers in (out) :

Income added to principal
Transfers for designated purposes

Transfers to endowment funds
Transfer in support of activities

Total transfers to (from)

Balance at end of year

See accompanying notes to financial statements.

INS Tit ULrLOwn

Current funds

Total current

funds

$ 6,024,712
26,670

6,051,382

9,517,884
1,322,315
2,307,097
744,950
1,583,657
531,184
384,629
451,960

(41,899)
16,801,777

4,093,708
6,225,853
429,526
610,162
922,188
1,375,145
964,606
247,680
2,162,920
1,027,765
133,717
31,296

18,267,263

(52,989)

$ 4,511,854

Unrestricted

funds

$ 2,851,411

26,670

2,878,081

323,206
17,550
744,950
1,583,657
531,184
109,989
283,372

(41,899)

3,552,009

4,093,708

e) ©] eV eelslislie aie)

158,358
80,370
225,910
366,224
77,227
121299
176,023
133,717
22,825

(2,056,728)
42,724

4,531,657

(28,492)
$ 1,869,941
Current funds—Continued

Restricted funds

PANT

Endowment and similar funds

Current funds
reserved as
an endowment

$ 6,414,053

Gifts, Total
grants, and Unexpended endowment and Endowment
contracts imcome similar funds funds
$ 2,379,937 $ 793;364 $26,489,937 $20,075,884
2,379,937 793,364 26,489,937 20,075,884
OI PS SAME cccec = || | Ae tinalenise 0 Welatatii mrss
Sialecnsieanee 999,109 HGS RS eho eke, FEISS
RB OEE Te We aacte tee cfs. 2 6,384,289 6,384,289
274,640 sae eee at a alies
74,541 94,057 DNS red bie oy Rates sateen
Rs pe ea enepsitnie a) 3 (224,482) (130,570)
12,156,612 1,093,156 6,273,384 6,253,719
5,791,461 "434,392 ind ewe he pater
175,801 POY GIPA0 te lla Sic reine i Me te relcped en tet
412,521 SOLS Sum CMT SARA e, 2) POU. fe eee
821,478 20'340) iy miysoce- eee? fe dudes sees oe
1,085,831 OBA a ceeds iicistovs ava pee Wait pase Gi
595,159 Deo e Sm Ea NAc See Lake aeue ack:
156,133 AS 20P6 om coe poe. Le Reece eis
887,779 G3BA2 Oras CNS PP Sk SR
812,744 38998. DER? satireyoett | neste sess
Ss 8,444 near rot ha
1,981,771 TAGS TROE? Oe cies e ON BER ott IEE
12,720,678 LOIt028-— =e INR a
Dis ts syshes iss (52,989) 52,989 52,989
36,301 (CAS) “ab nclocob dooney Woelced 06 on
7630.26. CR Ce) | ime 21,053 21,053
36,301 (81,851) 74,042 74,042
$ 1,852,172 $ 789,741 $32,837 363 $26,403,645

113,577

(93,912)
19,665

$ 6,433,716

218 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1970

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENT
30 June 1970

1. Basis of Accounting—The accounts for unrestricted funds are maintained
on the accrual basis of accounting. Accounts for other funds are maintained on
the basis of cash receipts and disbursements, except that reimbursements for
work performed pursuant to a grant or contract are accrued and certain real
estate is carried at cost or appraised value as explained below.

Except for certain real estate acquired by gift or purchased from proceeds of
gifts which are valued at cost or appraised value at date of gift, land, buildings,
furniture, equipment, works of art, living and other specimens, and certain other
similar property, are not included in the accounts of the Institution; the amounts
of investments in such properties are not readily determinable, Current expendi-
tures for such properties are included among expenses. The accompanying state-
ments do not include the National Gallery of Art, the John F. Kennedy Center
for the Performing Arts, nor other departments, bureaus, and operations ad-
ministered by the Institution under Federal appropriations.

2. Deferred Magazine Subscription Expenses——This amount represents pro-
motional and other expenses incurred in connection with the introduction of
the Smithsonian magazine. Amortization is over a period of twelve months which
commenced in March 1970, the month of the first issue.

3. Mortgage Notes Payable-—The mortgage notes payable are secured by first
deeds of trust on property acquired in connection with the Chesapeake Bay
Center. Funds for the curtailment of these notes will be transferred from Re-
stricted Funds—Gifts, designated for the development of the Chesapeake Bay
Center. The details of the mortgage notes payable are as follows:

a. A $266,000 note on property acquired for $376,000. The note is payable
in twenty consecutive semi-annual installments of $13,300, plus interest at the
prevailing prime rate on the due date of payment but not less than 8 percent.

b. A $44,697 note on property acquired for $118,533. The note is payable
in monthly installments of $451.02, including interest at the rate of 6 percent,
with the final payment due on 1 November 1989.

4. Commitment.—Pursuant to an agreement, dated 9 October 1967, between
the Institution and The Cooper Union for the Advancement of Science and Art,
the Institution acquired, on 1 July 1968, all funds belonging to The Cooper
Union for use exclusively for museum purposes, and certain articles of tangible
personal property as defined in the agreement.

The agreement provides, among other covenants, that the Institution will
maintain a museum in New York City and has pledges in excess of $800,000 for
the support of such a museum. Pledges in the amount of $500,000 have been
collected to date.

yYYU.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1970 O—40!1-511
wer Ty es Dm au gi

: @ 4
ys fort y
: i
#¢¢% a9 q — = Uy 7 ' ie 7 =i t:
“4
an { / lead
ie (=e 4.9 ea =
ants ,@ 7 g
— - eee
® e 4 7
on ( » 2 orl am,
2 i]
)
a Saeed bi
— : f
® _ 2 4
®
eae
» Je
—<—<—

~ :
: ws
t a ” =
+» < —<_
Pee La i. v
i I as ’ =? Sey " 4. =~ oe
i; : 7 a °f =a ae

» - a ee oe =F
pay Fae : ¥ And si 7 i — we :
- « hen i » (se Gc P ocdiaee CF ia

“a2 o
NG
HHH A

Alia

lossless SET Y

f
JOR rnen ts

FE8 28 1972

DEPOSITORY
“0

»

Smithsonian Year
1971

ANNUAL REPORT OF
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 JUNE 1971

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION PRESS
City of Washington
197%
SMITHSONIAN PUBLICATION 4767

i
For sale by the Superintendent of Documents, U.S. Government Printing Office
Washington, D.C., 20402 - Price $1.25 (paper cover)
Stock Number: 4700-0179
The Smithsonian Institution

The Smithsonian Institution was created by act of Congress in
1846 in accordance with the terms of the will of James Smithson
of England, who in 1826 bequeathed his property to the United
States of America “to found at Washington, under the name of
the Smithsonian Institution, an establishment for the increase
and diffusion of knowledge among men.” In receiving the property
and accepting the trust, Congress determined that the federal
government was without authority to administer the trust directly,
and therefore, constituted an “establishment,” whose statutory
members are “the President, the Vice President, the Chief Justice,
and the heads of the executive departments.”

The Establishment

RicHARD M. Nixon, President of the United States
Spiro T. AGNEw, Vice President of the United States
WarkEN E. Burcer, Chief Justice of the United States
WILLIAM P. Rocers, Secretary of State
Joun B. ConnaLty, Secretary of the Treasury *
MELVIN R. Lairp, Secretary of Defense
Joun N. MirTcHELL, Attorney General
WINTON M. BLount, Postmaster General
Rocers C. B. Morton, Secretary of Interior +
CLiFForRD M. Harbin, Secretary of Agriculture
Maurice H. Srans, Secretary of Commerce
James D. Hopcson, Secretary of Labor
Extiot L. RICHARDSON, Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare
GrorcE W. Romney, Secretary of Housing and Urban Development
JouN A. VoLpE, Secretary of Transportation

* Replaced David M. Kennedy on 11 February 1971.
+ Replaced Walter J. Hickel on 29 January 1971.
Board of Regents and Secretary

30 June 1971

Presiding Officer ex officio

Regents of the Institution

Executive Committee (Permanent
Committee)

The Secretary
Under Secretary
Assistant Secretaries

Treasurer

RicHarp M. Nixon, President of the
United States, Chancellor

Warren E. Burcer, Chief Justice of
the United States, Chancellor

Spiro T. AGNEW, Vice President of
the United States

CLINTON P. ANDERSON, Member of the
Senate

J. WittiAM Fusricnt, Member of the
Senate

Hucu Scotr, Member of the Senate

Frank T. Bow, Member of the House
of Representatives

Joun J. Rooney, Member of the
House of Representatives

GrorcE H. Manon, Member of the
House of Representatives

Joun NicHotas Brown, citizen of
Rhode Island

Witutiam A. M. BurbeEN, citizen of

New York

Crawrorp H. GREENEWALT, citizen of
Delaware

CaryL P. Haskins, citizen of Wash-
ington, D.C.

Tuomas J. WATSON, JR., citizen of
Connecticut

James E. Wess, citizen of Washington,
D.C.

WarreEN E. Burcer, Chancellor (Board
of Regents)

CLINTON P. ANDERSON

CaryL P. Haskins (Chairman ad
interim)

James E. WEsB

S. Ditton RIPLEY

JAMES BRADLEY

Davin CHALLINOoR, Acting Assistant
Secretary (Science) *

CHARLES Bitzer, Assistant Secretary
(History and Art)

WILLIAM W. Warner, Assistant Sec-
retary (Public Service)

T. AMES WHEELER

A listing of the professional staff of the Smithsonian Institution, its bureaus,

and its offices appears in Appendix 4.

* Replaced Sidney R. Galler on 11 January 1971.
Contents

shessimithsonian Institution” 27r) eascites Gila 20k, TALI) a
Pe UME MINeZerts: ANG SECKEEATY co. gi: ie is wes isd nw a ep an geo) LIS
Riocmenigoy fac secretary. . Siete? PS SEs NS.
Beira CPOLe. PSH ic opis. o RORISET RO a YD
PEC Orrick bn) is) heed Sk As “MN RR.) mei
Nationale Museumiof Natural Eistonyie sesamin a uetieeeies eka et Sie nrieey
Namoenal Alt anid Spacer Museum set) she ae.) IG ISIS.
Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory .....
Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute ...... SMT co nreecee
Radmiupneniology aboratory” 206) <! 4h a Se
Natonal. Zoological Park! 24:5 29. Snes) s,s SUOINEA: PN ee
Office of Environmental Sciences SOON ee ee ee
memento the Study Of Mano as jens, s os ok 2 Ss Se
Sciences mtonmanonme Exchanges sy a. se) es jaues ete cet es Sel su
SDSIEDY) GUNG ss 0 a Sep era, Uae ie a-aoieaaa ae Sania, geile Cr mcr tes
The National Museum of History and Technology
Pecivesser American At.) 2) .99.15 Fa) .)ah. MER & ae SIRE
Preetrediiery Of Art 5 2 2s 5. ee 8 Ne tr tomo, Cane SOR ees Oia Bere
NabionalaCollection of Fine Arts’ 22 5 5: 3.4. - ype ee eB
NationallRortrait (Gallery -. 2 0 27s. «.. 2 s 5 ss :
Joseph H. Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden . .
Cooper-Hewitt Museum of Decorative Arts and Design
National Armed Forces Museum Advisory Board .......
Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars ...........
UDSETIO) 56 2iy aL OS ee eee Se Oe Sn a NiGeko lop -oouLe
DeIRCEO PP OMHETICAT: SUUGIES oo eo wa csi wc SRS bel Bue nle Me we. a
Oficevol Academic Studies <7. . > . = See Mer ae Cer eg he sacs
SiMishsonianeinstitution Archives’ 92. 575... 2 = -
Ce OL SEMINATS ss Lo. 8s ahs Sat MSL a nace MOA mae Oo 9 aah
Special Museum)-Proprams)).. . 5). 294 2: 5 oOo oo Oe Oe
Office of Museum Programs
Office of Exhibits Programs
Conservation-Analytical Laboratory ............ 406
Oiicesolthe Repistrar ss 6. sae. SumneRD iccrs Geate nce Joona
Smithsonian Institution Libraries’ > 25. 25 5 =:
imternational Exchange/Service. . . 2... . Sr AS OP Ve
REIRCESCEVICC) ACTIVITIES) 5 Sith spas o bsuyectes Soud ee spel oioensge eo ebas
BUELIEMSOMEAT, - ASSOGIALES: © 0.2) oe aia op Ia 8, 5, oh AE
Oficesof Public Affairs. 2... . Re at eae come

Division of Performing Arts *%
Smithsonian Museum Shops
Belmont Conference Center
Anacostia Neighborhood Museum

Oe ci Puella J cle Whe. oth Veneto. c8 Tore. pes (ete. \s\- le i ve
Smithsonian (magazine) 2 toes. oS se eos Se ose 104
Smithsonian: . Institution® Pressig. f45.45. $G6"S 2 & > « <acd ee 104
Reading Is Fundamental 2 ce eck yc bh os 3S 5 105
Division of Elementary and Secondary Education ........... 107
Administrative? Management) ag. ey ite) epee) tte =) ec 108
National Gallery ‘of Att) 5 Nae a Ke use ees aoe 118
John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts |/.. . {02 2 7": 121
Appendixes’... 6 0 ow Ge 6 mw a, CU ROS, ee 127
I. Smithsonian Foreign Gurrency, Program’ . . . ) 5/2). me eee 129

2. Members of the Smithsonian Council . ... . .. .\s¢ee see 132

3. Smithsonian Associates Membership .. . =.= « « « «seen 134

4. Staff of the Smithsonian Institution. <>... »..'s < 9 192 137

5. Publications of the Smithsonian Institution Press ......... 166

6. Publications of the Smithsonian Institution Staff ......... 173

7. Academic Appointments . .. 9%. 4.0 .. 5 4) 2 aRol i ee 229

8. Public Affairs . . 2.6.5. + & «> SOS Se 237

9. ‘Smithsonian Exhibits . . 2. .G..> .. «& +,o55 eee 246

vi
Statement by the Secretary

S. Drm_Lon RIPLEY

HIS ANNUAL REPORT of the Institution covers a twelve-month
period from 1 July 1970 to 1 July 1971. This year seems
to have been the time for a distinct pause in American affairs,
economically, politically, and to some extent in the realm of ideas
as well, for in such times moods are contagious. This has been the
year of the decrescendo, the de-escalation, the lowering of rhetoric.
The pause, while unfamiliar to some, has not been unwelcome.
It has been a sober experience, and sober times are always useful
in these days of mental assault by the mixed media among which
we live and the false euphoria engendered by our innate huck-
sterism. But if the pause has succeeded in being somewhat anti-
inflationary, it is too bad that it has not been more productive of
contemplation.

The basic problems of the present stage of American cultural
and economic history remain: anomie in the young, the pandemic
use of drugs, alienation among the poor and the ethnic minorities
that remain disadvantaged, and the curious loss of interest in hand
labor, skills and crafts—those talents that once helped set American
energy and creativeness in a class by itself.

Annually the Institution attempts to remind Americans of this
traditional approach towards life and personal fulfillment in our
Folk Festival. ‘The 1970 Folk Festival, our fourth on the Mall, was
even more successful than its predecessors.

A main feature was provided by the State of Arkansas, a national
center for crafts and folk music traditions. One hundred and
seventy five Arkansans led by State officials, participated in the five
day festival, demonstrating everything from the carving of dul-
cimers to the making of sorghum, corncob jelly, barrels, saddles,
fiddles, split oak cotton baskets, knives, quilts, and wood carvings.
They also demonstrated wine-making and milking, churning,
cheese-making, and baking. A huge turn-out of Washington citizens
and tourists watched with fascination and awe as all sorts of things
were made by hand.

Among the foods sold at the festival were barbecued buffalo
meat, Indian fried bread, Arkansas barbecued chicken, and _ black-
berry cobbler, Ozark style.
SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1971

1)

In addition we played host to our first big assemblage of Amer-
ican Indians organized by Mrs. Clydia Nahwooksy and George
Kishketon, Cherokee and Kickapoo, respectively. Tribes represented
included Comanches, Kiowas, Ponca, Ponca-Sioux, Kickapoo, Osage,
Cheyenne, Kiowa-Choctaw and Arapaho. Crafts, music, and dance
were all demonstrated.

As one tourist wrote, “I wish Washington was like this all year
round. You have brought life to the center of the Mall. It’s a
living greensward, not a dead one.”

During the period 16-31 July 1970, the Institution had its first
general Congressional hearings since 1855. The purpose of the
hearings, called by our committee in the House, the Subcommittee
on Library and Memorials, was, in the words of the Honorable
Frank Thompson of New Jersey, our Chairman, “a comprehensive
look at the Smithsonian, which, established by Act of Congress in
1846, is essentially a federal responsibility,” even though “rela-
tively independent compared to other federal organizations. . . .
We hope to obtain a better understanding of how the Smithsonian
operates, of its structure, of how it develops and carries out its
policies, of how its activity benefits the public and, of course, we
want to find out what its goals are for the future.”

“Only when we have this knowledge can the subcommittee and
the Congress pass confidently on legislation requested by the
Smithsonian.”

In my own statement I responded in kind, “We feel we have
far too few opportunities . . . to be in close touch with your
committee . . . and it is a very hopeful and helpful sign of the
continuing interest of the Congress of the United States” in our
affairs. For indeed we welcome scrutiny as I had stated in our
annual report of 1969, and we feel that we thrive on self-examina-
tion.

The two volumes of the hearings,* running to over 1,000 pages,
were comprehensive indeed and no doubt will prove a valuable
source book for the future. No stone seemed to be left unturned in
our accounting of the multifarious activities of the Institution,
although for those of us who constantly live the affairs of the
Smithsonian, the time at hand seemed all too short in which to
set the stage as it were, to provide the setting, both historical

* General Hearings before the Subcommittee on Library and Memorials of
the Committee on House Administration. House of Representatives, Ninety-first
Congress, Second Session (Smithsonian Institution), U.S. Government Printing
Office, Washington, 1970.

SS
STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY 3

and contemporary, for what it is that we do, why we do it, and
how it came about in the first place.

The demonstrated interest of Mr. Thompson, well known in the
country for his sponsorship of cultural and arts legislation, of
Mr. Brademas, whose concern for education is equally well known,
and of the other members of the subcommittee, Mr. Schwengel,
Mr. Bingham, Mr. Harvey, and Mr. Crane, in our hearings, was a
most welcome one, and we are indeed grateful for this oppor-
tunity to be responsive to the Congress.

One of the particular recommendations of the Committee as a
result of the hearings was that the Smithsonian should restudy
the cross-Mall design for the sculpture garden of the Hirshhorn
Museum. As a result a new solution was found; the plans were
revised and are currently under way, thus not traversing the open
space of the Mall’s center panel. Finally the committee gave circu-
lation to its far-reaching conclusion that, “the Smithsonian’s value
to the people of the United States is impossible to estimate. It can
be safely stated that its role is basic and should be continued. Its
work and research in science, education, history, the arts, and, of
course, in its many museums far overshadow whatever criticisms
of the Smithsonian have been made.”

In all of the work of assembling material for the hearings, I
should like to pay particular tribute to the Smithsonian staff, from
my own assistants to the heads of bureaus and departments and to
our Archivist, fiscal officers and secretarial aides, many of whom
worked overtime and under great pressure performing research
and providing data for presentation. The energy and initiative
displayed were a testament to the fact that there exists a great
loyalty and a sense of common enterprise among those who work
for this much-cherished Institution. We are all very proud of
the Smithsonian, and our pride is shown in the dedication and
sense of fulfillment which is demonstrated in our work at such
times.

During all this period of the summer of 1970, our budget unit
had been preparing materials for submission to the President’s
Office of Management and Budget, for the fiscal year 1972 budget.
Both at our hearings and also in the subsequent autumn discussions
with the Budget authorities of the President, the Institution was
honored to have a new champion for our air and space concerns
in the person of Senator Barry Goldwater, one of the premier aero-
nauts in government, who took revived interest on our behalf for
the long postponed National Air and Space Museum. This project,
4 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1971

passed by the Congress in 1966, with a site on the Mall and build-
ing plans approved, had been deferred for construction until such
time as a significant decline in the American involvement in Viet-
nam had occurred. Meanwhile inflation had taken its toll of the
original plans for the museum, which we estimated would cost
nearly twice as much to build by 1976, as we had assumed in 1966.
Consequently, the Board of Regents approved a scaling down of
the original plans to produce a building more in keeping with the
original estimated costs.

New scaled-down plans with their redesign will take nearly a
year to achieve, and in order to accomplish this, an allowance in
our budget of $1.9 million would be required. With the help of
Senator Goldwater, as well as the authoritative and enthusiastic
support of the Regents, this item was approved and incorporated
in our budget for 1972. If the schedule presently outlined can be
achieved without let or hindrance from acts of God, strikes, fires
or flood, we are in a fair way to have a National Air and Space
Museum within five years, namely by 1976.

The new Museum should incorporate many new devices and!
points of view on account of the very delay in its construction.
There is a beneficial aspect in such delays. The triumphs of the
astronauts on the Moon for example, give our designers scope for
newly thought-out exhibits. The whole understanding of space
which has evolved in the last five years since 1966 gives us new
opportunities. A “Spacearium” should be incorporated in the new
museum, an evolved planetarium concept orienting the participant
to life in space. New advances in chemistry and geology have cre-
ated new cosmogonies. New theories of the origin of the solar
system and the galaxies of outer space can be demonstrated and
exhibited in a manner which we would have been hard put to
incorporate in an existing designed series of exhibits. So there is
new scope for enthusiasm, and the new techniques will benefit the
history of man’s conquest of the air, as well as the story of the
unfolding of the universe.

A most welcome addition to our staff this year has come in the
person of Michael Collins, one of the Apollo 11 astronauts, who
has taken up the post of Director of the National Air and Space
Museum with captivating enthusiasm.

This has also been the year in which we have completed the
budgeting, under contract authority, for the construction of the
Joseph H. Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden. The final
sum needed to complete this contemporary structure designed by

STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY 5

Gordon Bunshaft of the firm of Skidmore, Owings and Merrill is
$3,697,000 and this has been voted by the Congress in the 1972
budget.

The Museum and Garden, situated between Seventh and Ninth
Streets and Independence Avenue and Adams Drive, will play
neighbor to the Arts and Industries Building erected in 1878. ‘The
four buildings taken in a row, the Freer Gallery, the Smithsonian
“Castle,” the Arts and Industries Building, and the Hirshhorn,
provide a fascinating exercise in American architectural tradition
and style over one hundred and twenty years.

All the buildings are or will be small, and each in its way sym-
bolizes a period, and each has its own color values. Contrasted to
the monolithic procession of buildings which ring the Mall, I
sometimes think of these varied creations as colorful figures on a
Bayeux tapestry, or in a Mayan pictograph.

The Hirshhorn will certainly add a vivid new dimension to
touristing in Washington, with its extraordinary collections span-
ning the rise of contemporary art and its roots, the past one
hundred years of sculpture and painting, particularly in America,
as well as examples of many of the source materials from far-away
places and eras like the Kingdom of Benin, the prehistoric cul-
tures of the Middle East and central Asia, and examples of so-
called “‘primitive’’ art.

The new design for the sculpture garden, drawn into the tree
panel on the south side of the Mall is a positive improvement for
the viewer, for shade is of the essence in tourist Washington dur-
ing the long summer months. We are grateful to the Congressional
hearings for spurring us into a reconsideration of that design.

Construction contracts on a tight budget are always fearful and
risky things to tamper with. Inflationary cost-increases in construc-
tion threatened at one point to endanger the whole project, and
we are additionally grateful to Mr. Hirshhorn for his generosity
in adding a million dollars to our construction budget. With luck
our schedule now assumes an opening of the Museum and Sculpture
Garden in mid-1973. Meanwhile President Nixon has named the
eight public Trustees of the Gallery, together with two ex-officio
Trustees.

During autumn of 1970, the fourth Smithsonian symposium
“Cultural Styles and Social Identities: Interpretations of Protest
and Change” met to air issues of great concern to all of us. The
colloquium, which was held through the generous interest and
support of the Charles F. Kettering Foundation and the Rocke-
6 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1971

feller Brothers Fund, demonstrated our own interest in cultural
change as reflected in the work of anthropologists and historians
alike. We are most grateful to these foundations, and with the
stimulus of the Kettering staff we hope to explore further aspects
of the Smithsonian in the fields of education and public service
that could help us grasp the “open university” concept.

If our setting as a museum seems to imply to many that we are
merely guardians of old dead “things,” then we should remind
others as well as ourselves that we are keeping these objects for a
purpose: to accompany the inevitable stream of change with the
constant reminder of the thread of continuity. Past zs prologue
and young people today, who grow older each moment, will recall
this in time.

If the new media are making us once again remember our pre-
literate gifts of ear and hand and nose and the nonreading eye,
as I believe they are, then surely museums are the most valuable
ally that formal education could find, ready-made, ready to hand.
But if the juggernaut of education is capable of critical self-
examination leading to change, can the museum be said to be so
as well? Museums sometimes tend to be somnolent, backward-
looking as the very materials they keep. Unless museums can be
critical of their own role, they will be found wanting when the
forces of education call for their support.

The symposium called forth its own protest from groups who
felt unrepresented, Chicanos and women. This was welcome, and
a great compliment to the Institution. Perhaps we really are a
“sacred cow’ as we were termed. I would like to think so, for if
we can bend our attention to changes in the eddys and currents
running through our culture then so much the better.

The Institution needs to strengthen its competence in certain
behavioral and social fields in order to develop better interactive,
teaching exhibits that are more useful and more germane to present
styles of learning. The two great areas for this effort seem to me
to lie in the fields of understanding our environment and of under-
standing our history and, perhaps, where both may lead us.

The American experience is brief but incalculably rich. Nothing
so far has occurred that leads us to believe we cannot profit from
past achievements as well as errors, and in so doing secure our
future.

During the winter season an active program of new exhibits and
openings delighted our Associates and the general public alike.
Notable among these were the Rube Goldberg exhibit initiated

STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY 7

by Professor Boorstin, Director of the National Museum of History
and Technology. We were fortunate to have Mr. Goldberg at the
opening and to celebrate his many fruitful years as cartoonist,
artist, sculptor, and philosopher of the American scene.

Dr. Sadik organized two especially interesting exhibits at the
National Portrait Gallery in what is fast becoming a remarkable
tradition of style and scholarship. The first, organized by Andrew
Oliver, displayed the portraits of John Quincy Adams (to whom
the Smithsonian owes so much for his interest during his latter
years as Congressman). The second, the research on which was
performed by Robert Stewart, exhibited the obscure 18th-century
American portraitist, Henry Benbridge. Both were artistic triumphs.

The arrival at the National Portrait Gallery of Professor Lillian
Miller from the University of Wisconsin will add a highly signifi-
cant element to the Gallery’s continual evolution as a center for
historical scholarship.

Similarly the National Collection of Fine Arts created a rich
and illustrative series of exhibits of American artists ranging from
Jasper Cropsey to the virtually unknown (in this country) Lyman
Sayen, and Romaine Brooks. These exhibits, under the director-
ship of Professor Taylor, were notable for the exemplary taste in
display of Harry Lowe.

This has been the first full year in operation of the Archives of
American Art, and auguries for research and scholarship in Amer-
ican art history in Washington are just beginning to be appreciated.
I feel sure that the Washington in years to come will be as well
known as a metropolis of art and studies in art, as it is thought of
today as the center for U.S. Government administration. That
this will be so is assured by plans announced or in process of our
two Smithsonian afhliates, the National Gallery of Art, and the
John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts. During the year,
the National Gallery has broken ground for its formidably beauti-
ful addition designed by I.M. Pei. In years to come this building
and its space should set the capstone on the National Gallery’s
ambitions to be a world center for exhibition and study of centuries
of art. The Kennedy Center, now virtually completed, will launch
its performances shortly in halls that already have been shown to
be acoustically as fine as any in the nation.

This year budgeting for the Institution at last reached an area
of appropriate recognition. The demonstrated needs in science, in
the administration of buildings, and in the initiation or completion
of construction were largely met by an understanding and generous
8 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1971

Congress. We welcome this recognition of needs long overdue and
are most grateful to our appropriations committees as well as to
our Congressional Regents for their inestimable support.

In areas to do with the arts, with the coming of the Nation’s
Bicentennial, and with the environmental sciences, the Institution
has still to achieve the recognition that its tasks are vital to progress
in American culture and civilization. That this day will come I
feel sure, and already we can look back at the years in which we
have been stressing the needs of museums in general and the part
which the Institution could perform nationally to aid museums
as by no means wasted.

Museums are slowly but surely being recognized for their poten-
tial, and it is our hope that our own small nascent program of
help to museums and kindred institutions under the National
Museum Act will help to speed this progress.

To this end we are not only planning to launch expanded pro-
grams of museum-technician training and aid in exhibits, but also
conferences, seminars, and other discussions on kindred subjects
such as the future of systematic collections, data centers for descrip-
tive sciences, and the linking of science museum exhibits to a teach-
ing curricula.

This past year marked the fifteenth of our collaboration with
Harvard University in astrophysics. In recognition of this fact
President Pusey proposed that we hold a joint ad hoc discussion
of past results and future hopes for this collaboration. The Smith-
sonian was delighted to do so, and a joint report to President Pusey
and myself, organized by Dean Dunlop of Harvard and Under
Secretary Bradley, has provided a foundation for new discussions
of future cooperation.

In these fifteen years, the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory
has become an integrated arm of teaching at Harvard, while the
Harvard faculty have joined with us in an exciting series of
research efforts at our tracking stations around the globe as well
as new installations in Nebraska, and latterly, in Arizona at Mount
Hopkins in conjunction with the University of Arizona.

Grateful thanks are indeed due for the prescience of my prede-
cessor, Secretary Leonard Carmichael, and Professor Donald Men-
zel, then the Director of the Harvard College Obseratory, in initiat-
ing this collaboration which has resulted in the training of 76
graduate students, and the setting up of 4 joint laboratory facilities
shared by the two institutions.

The year 1970 marks the completion of the fifth year of public
STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY 9

service inaugurated by the Associates’ programs. The membership
in the greater Washington area totals some 8,300 members that
include family units and totals approximately 17,000 persons. ‘The
variety of activities available to these members and family members
is astounding, and the participation by young and old continues
to be increasingly rewarding to those of us who believe that this is
one of the things that the Smithsonian must carry on and encour-
age—participation by Washingtonians in day-to-day Institution
activities. The participation response as always continues to be
heartwarming to ourselves.

The patience of our volunteers and members when, on occasion,
classes are held in too-crowded quarters or when the unbelievable
Washington traffic congestion on the Mall makes accessibility to
our halls almost impossible, is a source of continuing gratitude.

This summer again we will be resuming our open-Museums
policy with funds newly granted us by the Congress. Keeping the
buildings open after business hours has been one of the most
popular moves that has been made on the Mall. Many Washing-
tonians pass their whole lives without having time to visit the
Smithsonian.

Traffic problems have become increasingly depressing. We con-
tinue to hope, along with the National Park Service, whose eff-
ciency and organization deserve unbounded admiraton, that our
joint concern and ambition in securing off-Mall or underground
parking may somehow be achieved. Otherwise the dead hand of
constant traffic jams may eventually strangle all movement on the
Mall, and produce that mortuary effect that I sometimes think is
the ultimate dream of the surburban developers and the final
quietus of the city planners.

If it can be said that in this year the Smithsonian has done any-
thing useful for the people of this country, then I think it is simply
that we exist. In times of turmoil, even though lessened, in times
of peculiar uncertainty of what role if any America can play in
world affairs, it is rewarding to look back on the kinds of service
to people which this Institution affords—an open sort of education,
a reafhirmation of what we have accomplished in the past two cen-
turies, a series of examples and precepts, not didactic, not shrill or
hortatory, but simply there, showing something positive.

No matter how bitterly we may regret the past for lost oppor-
tunities or missed directions, our country shows an extraordinary
ability to solve pragmatic problems which should encourage us
10 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1971

greatly in these days of awareness of environmental damage all
around.

In addition, in spite of all the evidence of human frailty on
every hand, Americans continue to show an essential friendliness,
tolerance, and concern for their fellow men. We sense it in our
day-to-day comings and goings on the Mall, and it is this which
continues to give us all a sense of pride and accomplishment in
our work in the Institution.
Financial Report

The total operating support for the Institution is composed
of federally appropriated funds (including special foreign currency
monies) , research grant and contract awards, and private funds
in the form of gifts and endowment fund income for both re-
stricted and unrestricted purposes. With the exception of private
unrestricted funds, the uses of these monies are limited to the
specific purposes designated by the appropriation, grant, or gift,
with the funds recorded separately in over 1,500 individual ac-
counts.

Total funds for operations and for construction in fiscal years
1968-1971 are shown below (in thousands) :

EYE AGCE EVAICON GEV A970 CEVAIQTI

OPERATING FUNDS
Federal appropriations

Salantesamdexpenses(sg:....----neee-cte === $26,784 $29,150 $32,679 $36,895
Special foreign currency program........ 2,316 2,316 2,316 2,500
Sul oy ie | Sa ae eae 2 ae 297,100) 315466" 634-1995" 2395395
Research grants and contracts 11,584 11,624 10,825 9° 312

Nonfederal funds:
Gifts (excluding gifts to endowments)
Restated punpOSses es. .-.- asso seca toa ees 442 1,806 2,290 1,905
Winnestricted |pumpose ras: eee.- soe 27 18] 17 356
Income from endowment and current
funds investment

Rlestricteds purpose .--..-6.-oss eee 870 924 999 Wels
Wnrestricted purposes. ssc. se-cecs-- =: 368 44] 281 330
MaSCellaneOUSstetcste. eeete cee eee es 190 476 503 406
Total Operating Support.............. $42 581 $46,918 $49,910 $52,819

CONSTRUCTION FUNDS (Federal)

National Zoological Park............00..00.0.. $ 400 $ 300 $ 600 $ 200
National Air and Space Museum............ = = = =
Joseph H. Hirshhorn Museum................ 803 2,000 3,500 5,200
Restoration and renovation of buildings.. 8) 400 525 e725

MRO t allen eee ee ree chee ee ee ee $ 2,328 $2,700 $4,625 $ 7,125

Federal Appropriated Funds

OPERATIONS (SALARIES AND EXPENSES) .—As shown above, Congress
has provided increases in appropriations to the Smithsonian in

441-283 O- 71 -2
12 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1971

recent years. The substantial inflation in this period, however,
absorbed a large part of these increases. Throughout this period,
also, there existed the need to provide for the natural growth of
museum and scientific research collections, to meet established
commitments toward improvement of the Institution’s museums,
and to participate more fully in growing research fields such as
ecology and oceanography. Together these forces placed a severe
strain upon operating budgets and accentuated existing shortages
of support for our research scientists and museum directors. For-
tunately, this situation has now been recognized and the increase
in our appropriation for operations (salaries and expenses) for
FY 1972 will make a good start toward alleviating these shortages
in many areas.

The division of the Institution’s federal appropriations (exclud-
ing special foreign currency program) for operating purposes in
recent years among its broad areas of service has been as follows
(in thousands) :

FY 1968 FY 1969 FY 1970 FY 1971

SCLEN COM re ee oor eae ee $ 9,566 $10,467 $11,761 $13,495
listonysand eAthena ee eee 4,045 4,287 5,081 5,878
BUblichs enviar rs ett eee 973 es9 1,445 1,442
Miusenm Propramis yeas asee ches ete a 3,128 3,260 3,592 3,744
Administrations «24. 8se nets eee eee 2E55 2,526 2733 3,051
Building MWiainten ances es. ssseeeesee esos eee 6,917 7,451 8,067 9,285

Mo tall sae tee es eee oe $26,784 $29,150 $32,679 $36,895

Additional detail for FY 1971 is shown in Table 1 on page 22.

SPECIAL FOREIGN CURRENCY PRoGRAM.—These funds, representing
a portion of the U.S. Government’s holdings of blocked currencies
in nine foreign nations, have been awarded to the Smithsonian
annually since 1964 to administer a program of grants to more
than fifty museums and universities in the United States for the
purpose of carrying on research in the related foreign currency
countries. ‘The uses of these currencies during FY 1971 were as
follows (in thousands) :

Systematic
and En- Astrophysics Grant
vironmental and Earth Museum  Admini-
Arckeology Biology Sczences Programs stration Total

Weylomc) sca. $) 18-0) 2$-43027 $ — oe $ - $ 449.7
Indias 3.2 oe 492.4 287 .9 WES Say We7/ 802.2
Tisraels.o4 on co: s ees: 521.1 281.4 - ~ 12, 803.7
IMioroceon see Bia) 41.6 = = 2.39 48 .4
STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY 13

Pakistan! i: 47.1 42.4 - — — 89.5
Roland::.4: 28 ee 39.8 - 350) i - 43.9
WUE TS ass 5 cee eses ose 6.7 15a2 - - — 76.9
IU oe ose - op nnnne ne 266.6 43.5 V7/ - - B3ae0
Yugoslavia.......... Sweats} 73.4 - Bo — 392.3

Motal::.....: $1766.4 $1217.1 $38 .2 $12.9 $5.8  $3040.4*

* Includes unobligated balance from previous fiscal year.

These grants are audited by the Smithsonian internal auditing
staff aided by foreign independent accountants in some cases, and
also more recently with the assistance in foreign countries of the
audit staff of the U.S. Department of Agriculture.

ConstTRUCTION.—An additional $5,200,000 was appropriated in the
fiscal year 1971 budget for the construction of the Joseph H.
Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden. This made a total of
$11,303,000 appropriated for this project since the initial planning
appropriation was received in fiscal year 1968. This left a final
appropriation of $3,697,000, the balance of the $15,000,000 author-
ized by Congress for the project, to be obtained in the fiscal year
1972 appropriation. Construction is scheduled to be completed in
the fall of 1972.

Of the $1,725,000 of appropriations for restoration and renova-
tion of buildings appropriated to the Institution in fiscal year 1971,
$774,000 was for the repair of fire damage suffered in the third
floor of the National Museum of History and Technology in
September 1970. An additional $500,000 was for the necessary
redecking of space in the Arts and Industries Building to provide
additional office areas.

Research Grants, and Contracts

Total grants and contracts carried on by the Institution in each
of the past years, by awarding agency, were as follows (in thou-
sands) :

FY 1968 FY 1969 FY 1970 FY 1971

Department of Health Education and = e220 SS Ob te 297
Welfare

Department of Defense.) 1,334 1 ,667 1 ,086 843

National Air and Space Agency.............. 7 , 294 7,265 6,561 4,930

National Science Foundation.................. 2300 2,099 2,246 2,028

CLO FEe S Stats eee eee ee 601 321 606 1,214

NEC Oe ee os ne ee Oe $11,584 $11,624 $10,825 $ 9,312

14 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1971

As indicated in last year’s annual report, cutbacks by NASA, espe-
cially for the satellite tracking program at our Smithsonian Astro-
physical Observatory, caused a further reduction in grants and
contracts awarded to the Institution in fiscal year 1971. Adjust-
ments in expenditures and personnel at the Observatory have been
carried out as a result.

Table I, shows the usage of grant and contract monies by various
bureaus of the Institution. Over 95 percent goes for scientific
research—notably to our Astrophysical Observatory, to anthropol-
ogists and other scientists in the National Museum of Natural
History and for studies in the environmental sciences. Grants from
the National Science Foundation were largely for the funding of
the Science Information Exchange which has been operated by the
Smithsonian since 1953. For the fiscal year 1972, funding responsi-
bility has also been transferred to the Institution, to become a
part of its federal appropriation request with a corresponding re-
duction in future NsF funding.

Private Funds

In addition to federal appropriations and awards of research
grants and contracts the Institution benefits from private funds
received in the form of gifts and as income from its endowment
and other investment funds. Not including contributions to endow-
ment funds (discussed below), a total of $2,261,000 of gifts was
received during fiscal year 1971, about the same level as in the
previous year. Income from investments amounted to $1,444,000.
An additional $406,000 was obtained from memberships, special
fund-raising drives, and fees.

Following traditional practice, private fund accounts of the Insti-
tution are audited annually in their entirety by independent public
accountants. ‘Their report for fiscal year 1971, including compara-
tive balance sheets and a statement of changes in balances in all
the various funds, appears on pages 25-31. (Grant and contract
monies received from federal agencies are audited annually by the
Defense Contracts Audit Agency; audits of federally appropriated
funds are conducted by the Institution’s internal audit staff and
from time to time by the General Accounting Office.)

UNRESTRICTED PRIVATE FUNDs.—Private funds are vital to the main-
tenance of the Institution, permitting it flexibility of operations,
nonpolitical objectivity, and greater attraction for valuable na-
tional collections to benefit its millions of visitors. Unfortunately,
STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY 15

its total sources of private funds in fiscal year 1971 provided only
8 percent of overall operating revenues, with federal appropriations
accounting for a growing portion of total support.

It is important to note, furthermore, that these private funds
are dedicated largely to restricted purposes. This was the case for
77 percent of our fiscal year 1971 investment income and, in recent
years, nearly all of the gift monies. In fiscal year 1971, however,
the latter included $365,500 for unrestricted operating purposes;
this was of immense value in aiding the Institution to approach a
balance in its current unrestricted private funds operating budget
despite the continued rise in costs of salaries, services, and sup-
plies. The gap between income and expenditure was reduced to
$138,690, a notable improvement over previous years. Nevertheless,
the loss of these unrestricted private funds during the year was
disappointing. The balance of these funds was $1,719,657 at 30
June 1971. This is below the desired level of working capital for
the Institution; it must be rebuilt in future years by surpluses to
be obtained by careful control of expenditures and by enlargement
of our sources of income.

An examination of the present application of our private unre-
stricted funds is useful in understanding how this desired result
may be achieved. Table 1 sets forth total Smithsonian income and
disbursements—federal, nonfederal, and grant and contract monies
—by bureaus, offices, and activities. In this table the revenues and
expenses of our computer centers (which are run on a break-even
basis) and of our revenue-producing “activities” have been netted
out; only the net excess of disbursements is included in order to
clarify their effect. From this table it may be seen that unrestricted
funds are used in part to support new programs (Anacostia
Museum, Chesapeake Bay Center), provide additional resources
for certain established programs and supporting services (libraries,
academic programs, Smithsonian Institution Press, performing arts),
and to finance our revenue-producing “activities” until they can
become fully self-supporting. Additionally, private unrestricted
funds pay for administrative costs associated with these nonfederal
expenditures, including the large amount of grants and contracts
and the “activities” themselves—all of which are charged for a
share of these administrative expenses in an effort to recover such
expenses as fully as possible.

Results of the revenue-producing activities themselves in fiscal
year 1971 were as follows (in thousands) :
16 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1971

Per-
Museum Maga- Asso- forming
Total Shops Press* zine  ciates Arts Other**

Sales and Revenues......... $4,654 $1,020 $ 148 $2,412 §$ 597 §$ 142 §$ 335

Less Cost of Sales............ 2,188... 686.) 134 1134 193... ata ee
Gross Income......... 2,466 334 14 1,278 404 142 294
Gifts 4 et hte ns ee 52 — - 6 46 s\n ee
Total Income.......... 2,518 334 14 1,284 450 142 294
Ex DENSeS eee ee eee 2 Od 327 150393 410 200 283
Income (loss) before (245) 7, (36) (109) 40 (58) 11

charge for adminis-
trative costs

Less Administrative 289 87 23 100 31 20 28
Costs
Net Income (loss).......... $ (534) $ (80) $(159) $ (209) $9 §$ (78) $ (17)

* The privately funded activities of the Press as opposed to the federally sup-
ported publication of research papers.
** Includes Traveling Exhibitions, Belmont Conference Center, photo sales, and
the “Commons” restaurant.

The Smithsonian magazine continued to gain acceptance and
show excellent progress during this first full year of operation. Its
loss, due in part to nonrecurring costs, was greatly reduced, and
circulation at the fiscal year-end exceeded 250,000. Break-even
results are expected in fiscal year 1972.

On the other hand, the continued loss ($80,000) in our Museum
Shops, although caused in large part by liquidation of large unsal-
able inventories acquired in previous years, was most disappointing.
The need for great business attention to the Shops and other sim-
ilar activities has become abundantly clear. Effective in July 1971,
Mr. Harry R. Albers has been given this responsibility by his ap-
pointment as Business Manager, Office of the Treasurer.

Another major factor causing the imbalance in private unre-
stricted fund accounts was the substantial underrecovery of private
fund administrative expenses. An intensive study of this problem
has been completed and with the adoption of certain policy changes
the loss from this source should be reduced. If this can be accom-
plished and if expected improvements in financial results of the
magazine and shops are also achieved, the Institution should make
a start in fiscal year 1972 toward the desired rebuilding of its
current operating funds.

From a different angle, our year-old Development Office is
STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY 9/

actively at work in conjunction with the newly organized National
Associations program at building an active national group of
Smithsonian friends who will assist in the raising of additional
sorely needed unrestricted private funds. At the same time the
Office is soliciting contributions for a number of specific funding
requirements of the Institution and is launching a program to make
clear the need for future individual gifts and bequests. Additional
unrestricted funds thus obtained could be constructively used to
restore needed working capital, to provide equipment to outfit
properly the Institution’s photographic services division and
Museum Shops (enabling the Institution to help itself by increas-
ing revenues in these areas), to develop more rapidly its public
education programs in new fields of audiovisual techniques, and
to finance a great variety of research projects or collection acquisi-
tions now stifled for lack of funds—to name but a few pressing
requirements.

RESTRICTED PRIVATE FuNps.—As indicated earlier, a total of
$1,905,000 of gifts for restricted operating purposes was received
during fiscal year 1971. Major donations included $276,000 for
the Cooper-Hewitt Museum of Decorative Arts and Design in New
York City, representing principally the payment of previous out-
standing commitments toward reestablishment of this Museum.
The Carnegie Corporation has agreed, subject to court review and
certain terms and conditions, to donate the Carnegie Mansion as
a site for this Museum. Strong measures are now needed to obtain
the very substantial funds for rehabilitating the building for
museum use and to provide future operating funds.

Continued progress was made in acquiring additional land at
the Chesapeake Bay Center for Environmental Sciences and a new
$25,000 gift was received for that purpose during the year. To
exercise a favorable option to acquire one of the properties, it was
necessary, however, to obtain a bank loan of $175,000 which it is
hoped can be repaid within the near future from additional dona-
tions. Other acquisitions and proposals for additional grants are
in process.

In another field, gifts totaling $243,000 were contributed to-
ward the important underwater research efforts centered at the
Institution’s new oceanographic center in Fort Pierce, Florida, at
which will be based the Johnson-Sea-Link submarine and the
J. Seward Johnson oceangoing submarine tender, contributed to
the Institution by Mr. Edwin A. Link and Mr. J. Seward Johnson.
These were in addition to the substantial income for this purpose
18 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1971

received from a large special endowment fund. In part these funds
financed the purchase of 172 acres of land at this center in June
1971, but it is expected that an interested foundation will repur-
chase this land within the near future while continuing to dedicate
it to the same purposes. A final three-year grant of $259,000 to the
Smithsonian-associated program of “Reading is FUNdamental”
assured successful continuation of this valuable venture. Numerous
other contributions for important research, educational and
museum projects included those for Anacostia Museum, the Fourth
International Symposium, and the acquisition of additional col-
lection items. A listing of individual donors is shown on pages 19-21.

In addition to gifts, endowment funds established for specific
purposes provided $1,114,000, of investment income and miscellane-
ous sources added another $195,000 of restricted purpose income in
fiscal year 1971. Of the investment income $674,000 was for opera-
tion of the Freer Gallery, $116,000 was dedicated to the Marine
Center oceanography program referred to above, and the remain-
ing $324,000 was provided for a great variety of purposes designated
by the donors.

Utilization of these gifts and restricted purpose investment in-
come may not, of course, occur in the same year as the one in
which they are received, with the result that year-end balances show
considerable variations from year to year. In fiscal year 1971 land
acquisition at the Chesapeake Bay Center required expenditure
of $288,000 of money received for this purpose in previous years
and unusually large collection purchases by the Freer Gallery drew
down its previously accrued investment income balance by $180,000.
These two items largely account for the decline in total restricted
fund balances from $2,241,000 as of 30 June 1970 to $1,762,000 on
30 June 1971.

ENDOWMENT Funps.—The value of the Institution’s endowment
funds increased during the year, reflecting both additional gifts
of $1,677,000 and also general increases in values of securities to
reach a total market value on 30 June 1971 of $45,905,000
($42,632,000 of stocks and bonds, $1,000,000 permanent loan to
U.S. ‘Treasury, $2,176,000 real estate, and a $97,000 note receiv-
able). In addition, current fund investments on that date had a
market value of $2,727,000. The endowment fund gifts included a
$1,310,000 addition to the Oceanography Research Fund and a
$79,000 bequest for unrestricted uses.

Most of the Institution’s endowment funds are handled in
three separate investment accounts consisting of the Freer Fund
STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY 19

($18,805,000 market valuation of 30 June 1971), dedicated to pro-
viding operating income for the Freer Gallery of Art; Endow-
ment Fund No. 3 ($12,331,000), dedicated entirely to oceano-
graphic research; and the Consolidated Fund ($11,470,000), in
which all other restricted and unrestricted endowment funds
have for many years been pooled for investment purposes. ‘These
funds, as well as current account investment funds, are summarized
in Table 2. A listing of the individual investments held in the
various endowment funds may be obtained upon request to the
Treasurer of the Institution.

Increasing attention has been given to the monitoring of these
funds in the past two years with the result that the Board of
Regents appointed in September 1970 a new Investment Policy
Committee consisting of the Secretary (ex-officio), three Regents
(Mr. William A. M. Burden, Chairman; Dr. Crawford H. Greene-
walt; and Mr. James E. Webb) and four experienced investment
executives (Messrs. Harold F. Linder, Donald Moriarty, Charles
H. Mott, and William R. Salomon). After reviewing the invest-
ment problems of the Institution, the Board of Regents, on the
recommendation of this Committee, has adopted a number of
changes affecting our endowment funds. Effective 1 July 1971,
three new investment management firms have been given the re-
sponsibility for investing different portions of the funds. Discretion
has been granted to the managers to carry out this responsibility,
subject to general policy guidance and prompt reporting require-
ments imposed by the Board.

A listing of individual funds included in our Consolidated Invest-
ment Fund and their related investment income in fiscal year 1971
is set forth in Table 3.

Donors to the Smithsonian

The Smithsonian Institution gratefully acknowledges gifts and
bequests received during fiscal year 1971 from the following:

$100,000 or more: Atlantic Foundation
Battelie-Memorial Institute
Mrs. Mary Graham Bruce
Carnegie Foundation
Joseph P. Crane Foundation
$10,000 or more: ercee a ae:

William L. Elkins
Mrs. Hugo Astor Daniel and Florence Guggenheim
Mrs. W. Vincent Astor Foundation

Ford Foundation
J. Seward Johnson
Mrs. Marjorie Merriweather Post
20

$10,000 or more—Continued

Susan Morse Hilles Agency

Interdisciplinary Communications
Association

International Business Machines
Corporation

Iran Foundation

Junior League of Washington, D. C.

J. D. R. 3rd Fund, Inc.

J. M. Kaplan Fund, Inc.

Charles F. Kettering Foundation

Hoffman La Roche Foundation

Miami Beach Tourist Authority

Ambrose Monell Foundation

National Foundation for the Arts
and Humanities

National Geographic Society

State of New York

Edward J. Noble Foundation

Prospect Hill Foundation

Rockefeller Brothers Fund

Rockefeller Foundation

Laurence S. Rockefeller

Clara Louise Safford Estate

San Diego Zoo

The Scaife Family of Pittsburgh

Hattie M. Strong Foundation

Bertrand L. Taylor

Wenner-Gren Foundation

Xerox Corporation

$1,000 or more:

Amalgamated Meat Cutters and
Butchers Workmen of North
America

American Conservation Association,
Inc.

American Council of Learned
Societies

American Federation of Information
Processing Society

American Philosophical Society

Anonymous

W. Andrew Archer

Avco Corporation

Bakery and Confectionery Union

Barra Foundation

Henry W. Bass

Beal Foundation

Clay Bedford

SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1971

Louis D. Beaumont Foundation

David P. Becker

Bernard P. Bishop Museum

Jacob Blaustein

Elizabeth Booker

Brunschwig & Fils, Inc.

Morris and Gwendolyn Cafritz
Foundation

Charron Foundation

Cleveland Foundation

Continental Oil Company

Cook Industries, Inc.

Pamela C. Copeland

Cornell University

Dairy Industry Committee of
Metro Washington

Elsie DeWolfe Foundation

Dillon Fund

Government of District of Columbia

Alfred U. Elser, Jr.

FAUNALABS, Inc.

Joseph Fenykovi

Harvey Firestone

Friendship Fund

General Electric Company

General Telephone and Electronic
Corp.

George Washington University

Gordon D. Gibson

Bruce Gilchrist

Glass Bottle Blowers Association of
the United States and Canada

William P. Graham

Crawford H. Greenewalt

Norris Harkness

Harvard University Press

Hill and Knowlton, Inc.

Charles Horsky

International Association of Bridge,
Structural, and Ornamental Iron
Workers of America

International Telephone and
Telegraph Co.

John B. Jago

Johns Hopkins University

Marguerite Kellogg

Ellsworth P. Kelly

Mannheimer Kunstverein

Phyllis Lambert

Jack L. Leon

Charles A: Lindbergh
STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY

$1,000 or more—Continued

Link Foundation

Howard Lipman

Sally P. Livingstone

Lockheed Aircraft Corp.

Marcus Ward Lyon, Jr. Estate

Mr. and Mrs. Robert S. McNamara

Merck & Co., Inc.

City of Monroe, Louisiana

Museum d'Art et d’Historie, Geneve

National Audubon Society

Mr. and Mrs. Hugo V. Neuhaus

New York Foundation

New York Times Foundation

Dan H. Nicholson

Northern Trust Company

Occidental Petroleum Corporation

The Poynter Fund

H. Vnon Petrikovits

Preservation Society of Newport
County

Mrs. Augustus Riggs Iv

Ralph Rinzler

Mrs. Clifford Robertson

Rubin Foundation, Inc.

Sidney Printing and Publishing Co.

Symonds Foundation

E. W. Thaw and Co.

John B. Trevor, Jr.

Marcie Brady Tucker Foundation

W. M. Underwood Co.

UNESCO

Union Trust Co.

United States Steel Corp.

Mrs. H. G. Van Roijen

21

Dorothy Wallenstein

Ellen Bayard Weedon Foundation
Howard Weingrow

William Woodward, Jr.

Zoological Board of Victoria, Australia

$500 or more:

Madame Leon Barzin

Harry H. Bassett

William Beinecke

Bell and Howell Foundation
Carroll Cartwright

Caterpillar Tractor Co.

Lois Clark

Alice De Leman

Michael Desfayes

Early Birds

Electronic Corporation of America
Clifford Evans, Jr.

Peter A. Frank and Co.
Grossman Publications

Mason E. Hale, Jr.

Samuel J. Holladay

Institution of International Education
Johnson City Foundation
Abraham Melamed

Elinor Merrell

Dorothy S. Payer

Phillips Petroleum Company
Revlon Foundation

Scovill Manufacturing Company
E. R. Squibb and Sons

Strahein and Somann

The Upjohn Company

William C. Whitney Foundation
Marie and Joseph Wilson

We also gratefully acknowledge other contributions in the
amount of $34,289.86 received from 484 persons during fiscal year

£971.
TaB_e 1.—Source and applications of funds (in thousands)
Year ended 30 Fune 1971

Non-Federal Funds

Federal Grants and
Funds Funds Total Unrestricted Restricted Contracts
Funp Barances—| July 1970.. $ = $ 4,012 $:15870 $ 2353565 "$286
FUNDS PROVIDED
Federal Appropriations............ $36 ,895
Investment Income*....-.-. $1,444 $° 4330 $1,114 $ —
Grants and Contracts.............. OF Sv/, OFS
Giftsi ee. tse 2,261 356 1,905
Other hee 8 406 211 195
Dotal’ Provided... $36,895 $13,428 $ 897 $ 3,214 §$ 9,317

Toray Funps AVAILABLE........ $36,895 $17,940 $ 2,767 $ 5,570 §$ 9,603

FUNDS APPLIED

Science:
Environmental Science............ So 724 Ws $s 42 $ “762 °oe") 53
Nat’! Museum of Nat. Hist..... 4,339 849 = 236 613
National Zoological Park........ 3,163 60 = 34 613
Science Info. Exchange............ - 1,675 = = 1,675
Se Oa ee cha epeareee renee erro ener 2,107 3,745 = 58 3,687
@thersciences eee ee 3ElG2 900 = 115 785
FL Moy eel hs ae a ee 13,495 8,546 42 1,205 Tp299
Mstory and Art:
Nat’! Portrait Gallery.............. 784 1 = 1 =
Nat’! Collec. of Fine Arts........ 1,040 123 = 121 2
HreeniGallery7eee ee 57 927 = 927 =
Nat'l Museum of Hist. and 2,243 103 40 62 1
Tech.
Other History and Art............ Zoe: 974 98 876 =
Potalice ter: ©. mevee hae 5,878 2,128 138 1,987 3

Public Service:
Revenue Producing Activities

Sniithsonian! Press....5..6es5.s: 691 136 136* = =
Performing Arts) 222-0... 215 245 58* 44 143
Otherness eee eee = 103 103* = =
Anacostia Museum.................. 151 97 39 58 =
Other ie ee oes 385 389 = 290 99
Motalinn ssccscc ante eee 1,442 970 336 392 242
Museum Programs:
Librariest. 2 se Soe tee <8: 744 60 53 7 -
Bxhibitss) 425.622 te 2,409 14 = 14 =
©ther)Proprams::........-.-...-. 591 15 8 = a
Notalieccnne 28 een 3,744 89 61 21 7
Buildings Management Dept........ 9,285 0 0 0) 0
Administration:
Dine Cte eee oe ee ae Meo, ig 0H 2,434 2,434 = =
Overhead Applied:.............-- = = (1,964) 203 1,761
Net Administration.......... 3,051 2,434 470 203 1,761
Torat Funps APPLIED.............. $36,895 $14,167 $ 1,047 $ 3,308 $ 9,312

Funp BaLances-30 June 1971 $ O $135,073) S$15720) Sal i622 eo

* Net loss before administrative charges; ‘‘Other’’ excludes $52,000 gifts reported
in gift income above.
STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY

23

TaBLE 2.—Summary of investments in stocks and bonds

of private funds, 30 June 1971

Funds

Book Value

INVESTMENT ACCOUNTS FOR ENDOWMENT FUNDS

Freer Fund:

EON ETE] Calm GSee tate Re des coon. eocoreseneeceosasser ceeecede:
Mmverbible mrelerred) StOCKs:.£ f5c-.6..0....20..eceeoeeeforasnonssess
MOCHTTTTINO TGS EOC ec oa eon cnn ac bas coeige swe cwebane tees

Caronvarstalo) teil ovoy oc Eyes. ieee ncothe 5 ne eee ene Ae ee
ianvertble preferred Stock...4/..........00-..0c.ssnen0ressaseeess
MOTATTITOTISS COCK Se. Bere a LE Se 5 sto coaels Necetous ones

Total Endowment and Similar Funds investments...

CURRENT FUNDS
Special Endowment Fund:

(CEE) Pssst pee eee MA ee OS Ae tent ERIN se oad? REE Diet Se

Wonvertible prefered stock. rece eee ee eee
M@OIMMGN STOCKS cee eaten ee ea ws na ceo tees

Miscellaneous:

WO MMOMISLOCKS oes ass See ieee osc come ene sewapteneniase
Motal Current Fund investments......................-....+0.:.+.

Market Value

$ 7,131,570

¢ (13-746. 3 13-746
6, 742 844 = 5 il 7a
491 ,500 443,500
210, 566 192,506
5,869,837 12,443,830
$13,328,493 $18,805,353
149,913 149,913
4,188,588 3,607,052
471,842 376 ,900
252,799 147,492
5,917,075 7,188,655
$10,980,217 $11,470,012
1,375 1,375

777 ,625 798 ,875
6,352,570 11,530,750

$12,331,000

10,065 9,500
3,322 16 ,608
13,387 26 , 108
$31,453,667 $42,632,473
$ 304 §$ 304
558,728 457 ,962

243 ,050 205,950

106 ,584 101 ,400
769,051 792,747
1,677,717 1,558,363
70,000 70,000

929 ,001 924 ,989

999 ,001 994 ,989
182,345 173,675

$ 2,859,063

$2,727,027
TABLE 3.—Consolidated investment fund

Investment Unexpended
(Book Value) Income Income
Funds Participating in Pool 1971 1971 30 Fun 71
WNRESPRICILEDER WIND Sareea $ 4,164,751 $175,204 $ -—
RESTRICTED FUNDS:
Abbotts: Wrllitamaliy 20 ce eterna ere cee oe: .. §$ 180,649 $ 8,876 $ 2,621
Archives of American Art.................000c00000 or 23 ,649 214 186
Armstrong, Edwin James... ).2:00....-c..020--.0-- ae 3,188 129 =
Ar thivr a] aries ee eee esas ese cscs cee eaten = 69,309 3,413 3,838
BACon wav ine iniay UGG y secretes een eee ee Ea 160 ,442 6,928 12,904
Baird) Spencer, Hullertone ers... e eee ee 63 ,452 3), 051 126
Barme yt Alice we ike 3 ech oso seaateareaearnaceen sare oe 49,702 2,446 300
Barstowaebre denice sere cee rere ane a Ver 85 1,515
Batchelor Panay bietet encase ce eee ba 58,715 2,738 25599
Beckers Georves bere gen eee ee ts 275 , 364 11,990 32 ,646
Brows volan GoVyVerer. hres ces age 953958 25333 2,798
@antieldiebredentckyAtes-.--r essere eee ay 66 ,828 3,760 =
Casey, Phomas lancolat e-store: ne Pe Teak 1,070 2,385
Chamberlain, Francest\iea:.......---..--------- pe 48 ,800 2,402 8,091
Cooper, G. Arthur, Curator’s Fund.......... ee 502 50 =
Cooper-Hewitt Museum.................:.0::00ee = 158 ,645 5,828 40 ,597
Division of Mammals Curator Fund.......... a 3,439 131 924
Division of Reptiles Curator Fund............ es 591 22 47
TD RAK ers CAT lan cence der Bons coice S ee cate 270,121 9,936 24 ,368
Dykes @harles te oe te. tee ae 74 ,607 3,671 -
Eickemeyer, Florence Brevoort.................. aes 18 ,836 927 9,051
Guggenheim, David and Florence.............. 7 176,211 4,604 4,888
Hanson, Martin Gustav and
CarolinesRamiceen se eee as 15,407 758 10,274
MUU Gx ARON cee orae Sone eas cactense acoso oe 11,389 561 5,891
Faitchcock-eAl Dent Sie ca esses eee ae PL Tes) 136 1,056
Eirdlickay Alesvand) Marie=:c----es ee ne 104 , 260 4,249 3,219
Jip Yed oss) bh eb (eh ee a2 pea aa pa ania panty ear ao Sori 2 1 ,635 19,359
Johnsons, ER. Henimores 2... nae 14,383 561 3,067
Kellogg, Remington, Memorial.................. ae 9,580 87 75
EAMG V7 CSS UN cat ane te chen eee oe ee ae 634 24 171
oeb a Mornisera nce coerce eee ae Woy ie! 7,518 1,393
Long, Annette E. and Edith C................... ae 943 48 968
Lyons, Marcus! Wardsetwie ee cee 7,710 70 -
NiaswellSMiary SBS. es ceca: ceeeee. cast eeepens acks 33,992 1,674 28 , 846
Myer Cathenimeaw aldemsccs ccs. ese ee ee 35,013 23 3,490
NelsonEdward) Walliams: 5.....0-:.tee..- ue 41 ,099 1,896 427
Noyes: Hrank Bere sta sctsestessiodcese: estensacch oe 1,670 87 940
Rell Cornelius [ivingstone..-- 12,850 636 8,527
Petrocelli, Joseph Memorial...................0.00... 12,850 635 6,638
Ramsey, Admiral and Mrs. DeWitt Clinton... 480 , 156 18 ,962 54,052
Rathbun, Richard Memorial.......................... 18 ,436 911 9,987
Reid: pAGdisoi lyntee trees ac sccshoe scone ces 30 ,823 Ne ai7/ 460
Roeblingy Collections... eee 209 ,097 10 , 243 =
Roebling Solar Rese architec. cc20/ecsseeiosdasn 43 ,259 1959 =
Rollins, Miriam and William.......................... 30), 052 13,147 10,221
Smithsonian Agency Account........................ 104,055 22a, =
Sprague, Joseph yw WWihite <...<.<.6::4sos.3.ceseee teens ue 2,196 ,963 79 , 103 -
Springer Pramleamies ep oc cor sacle Seeger 215075 1 ,528 17,860
Stevenson'p) line Aer re en oe ee ee 10,355 415 349
SELOD Ree AD) oe ee. acc sncs Me 17,330 857 1,624
de beEie Publications, Ine... ree 7 ,848 275 4,369
Walcott ‘CharlestD OR 6 ste ee. con ope hee 193 ,095 8,226 =
Walcott, Charles D. and Mary Vaux............ 797 , 383 39 , 228 BigZaall
Walcott Botanical Publications...................... 100,112 4,757 =
Zerbee, Eraneis briniGkles-- ee 1 ,646 81 1,436
DotalRestricted/Hunds!.2.2.-2-- $ 6,815,466 $280,388 $347,790

Total Consolidated Fund..............0......... $10,980,217 $455,592 $347,790

STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY 95

PEAT, MARWICK, MITCHELL & CO.

CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS
1025 CONNECTICUT AVENUE, N. W.

WASHINGTON, D. C. 20036

The Board of Regents
Smithsonian Institution:

We have examined the balance sheet of private funds of Smith-
sonian Institution as of 30 June 1971 and the related statement
of changes in fund balances for the year then ended. Such state-
ments do not include the account of the National Gallery of Art,
the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts, or other
departments, bureaus and operations administered by the Institu-
tion under federal appropriations. Our examination was made in
accordance with generally accepted auditing standards, and accord-
ingly included such tests of the accounting records and such other
auditing procedures as we considered necessary in the circum-
stances.

In our opinion, except for the method of accounting for fixed
assets and related depreciation described in note 1, the accompany-
ing balance sheet and statement of changes in fund balance of
private funds present fairly the financial position of Smithsonian
Institution at 30 June 1971, and the results of its operations for
the year then ended, in conformity with generally accepted ac-
counting principles which, except for the adoption of the accrual
basis of accounting for all funds described in note 2 in which we
concur, were applied on a basis consistent with that of the pre-
ceding year.

PEAT, MARWICK, MITCHELL & Co.

27 August 1971
26 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1971

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
BALANCE SHEET OF PRIVATE FUNDS 30 JUNE 1971

(With comparative figures for 1970) (note 2)

Assets
1971 1970
CURRENT FUNDS:
Cash:
NWS easyer ec erce rte sence reeset eee $ 413,857 $ 49 ,599
In banks and on hand (including $79,273 in sav-
ayes ciSNL7/ O22 sbo\ 1IS)7(0)) esse ceendonuecoroudcoasocedoncsssacubace 235,270 168 , 225
AD Otalecashs.scA0.28t.ce case Peete cen oe 649 , 127 217 ,824
Receivables:
PNCCOUNTS HEE seater ee he es SAS. boleal ee 774,772 352 ,814
Advances—traveltandvothen.. eee ere c eens eeeeee sees 194 835 146 , 269
Reimbursements—grants and contracts.................. 1 , 369, 306 1,835,671
2,338,863 2,334,754
inventories ati net realizable value... ....0..5c-o0e ee 522 ,908 544 ,413
Investments—stocks and bonds at cost (market value
$2)65965723; $2. 9005264 1nvl!970) hee eee 2,788 , 759 3,409 ,426
Prepaidkexpense nes stent ees 116,988 39 ,541
Deferred magazine subscription expenses (note 3).... 404 ,472 267 , 300
Equipment (less accumulated depreciation of
$71 ,636; $49,932 in 1970) (mote 4)........................- 521325 64,115
MNotalkcurnentstunds eye vee eee eee eee $ 7,342,442 §$ 6,877,373
ENDOWMENT AND SIMILAR FUNDS:
CORT oat elese poorupesee ica cc tcr eeRREE eer iee eee at rome eee ae 165 ,033 UU GBR
INGLE sTECel Via Lessee cert eae cee ree ec esenc ce 96 ,663 96 , 934
Investments—stocks and bonds at cost (market value
$42 467 ,439; $29,456 568 in 1970).22...2.02.scct..s. 31 2885633) W305 213145
Loan to U.S. Treasury in perpetuity...............0....... 1 ,000 ,000 1 ,000 ,000
Real estate (at cost or appraised value at date of
PARE) (OLED) one ee srute ene tener ates eee meer aac ee 2,176,219 1, 760 ,448
Total endowment and similar funds................ $34,726,548 $33,148,060

See accompanying notes to financial statements.
STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
BALANCE SHEET OF PRIVATE FUNDS 30 JUNE 1971

(With comparative figures for 1970) (note 2)

Liabilities and Fund Balances

CURRENT FUNDS:
Berne payable (iOte 2). ces. ccegaicrctsceseseccosetesncecssaceeesness
BREEN AV ADCs 5 co seco cates sca tesa ee coach. cee tecck te eacesnesecs
BRCM EA MARTI ES Son. 5 ncn nae Sueviss dens tgcadestos ssuetevecsseeto ese

eiotalkeurrente fu Us iss eesice-ccecesceeece cease ee eceee

ENDOWMENT AND SIMILAR FUNDS:
Biortgape note payable (note 5)...:.:..:....:c/0ccceceeccee-cee
Fund balances:

Endowment funds—income restricted:

Current funds reserved as an endowment—income

RUTLTCS CLIC LE Ce erece on ecco ote ee cee a A

Commitments (note 6)
Total endowment and similar funds................

441-283 O - 71 - 3

27

1971 1970
654,613 =
814,581 1,381,000
570 ,068 63,986
1,719,657. 1,858,347
1,400,926 1,030,115
130,249 16,627
1,531,175 1,046,742
1,109,718 1,493,041
290,741 286 , 144
1,400,459 1,779,185
210, 562 389 , 906
441,327 358,198
651,889 748 , 104

$ 7,342,442

293 ,641

13 328,493
14, 166, 763

5,055,073

1 ,882 578
34,432 907

$34, 726 , 548

$ 6,877,373

310,697

13,188,994
13,099,645

5,098 ,973

1,449,751
32 837 , 363

$33 , 148 ,060

Balance at 30 June 1970......
Adjustments from cash to
ACCMHilal PagiSerssss reece eeeerene

Adjusted balance at 30 June
TROT AO ee eer dtesenneensnsaack sohoccenn
Additions:
Grants and contracts net
Of nehund sy ewes -cererencee
Investment income....
Gifts and bequests..............
Gross profit on sales............
Rental cscee ceercescscererneansteensy
(Oy do ele senenarr bac ebecece nee toacOLcoONee
Net gain (loss) on sale or
exchange of invest-

Deductions (additions):
Expenditures:

Salary and benefits:
Administrative............
Research iccsccccccesese

Purchases for collection..

Travel and transporta-
tation: cse-s: a ss

Equipment and facili-

. (a: Pe re citcceecerocekeEchin
Supplies and material...
Rent and utilities............
Communications....... BA
Contractual service
Computer rental..............
Promotion and adver-

(a) Vie erpecenachoes eee gos peso OE
Pepreciationece--c.sc-r-
Administrative expendi-

tures applicable to

other fundS:......-.------<-.

Total deductions car-
ried forward.............-

Adjusted balance at 30 June
1970 brought forward........

Total additions,
brought forward......

Total deductions,
brought forward......

Transfers in (out):
Income added to principal.
Transfer to unexpended
INCOME. cere eee eee caees

Transfer to restricted
funds—gifts..............000+
Transfer for designated
DUTDOSESs eee eee
(Transfer to grants) com-
puter services to com-
MercialMISeEUCSiaccssss<sesess<2eee
Transfer in support of ac-
Pivlbies eee co eee send -ncrcecees

Total transfers............

Net income (loss) af-
ter transfers..............

Balance at 30 June 1971........

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
PRIVATE FUNDS

Statement of Changes in Fund Balances
Year ended 30 June 1971

Current Funds

Unexpended income
reer ther

354 , 868

3,330
—_————[al

358,198

414,364

83,557
31.634

13,314

8,376
3/612

5t
38,87:

46 ,52¢

225,94)
358, 198
414,360

(63 ,327
257 ,32¢

(300 , 94)
1,65!

Restricted funds
Unrestricted funds Grants and
Total General Activities Gifts contract
$4,511,854 1,869,941 - 1,566,028 286,144 434,873
(126,218) (11,594) - (72 ,987) - (44,967)
4,385,636 1,858,347 - 1,493 ,041 286,144 389 ,906
9,316,961 = - = 9,316,961 =
1,448,758 334,452 — 34,200 - 673 ,625
2,261,285 304 ,292 52,218 1,895,589 - 1,705
2,465 ,922 = 2,465 ,922 - - —
1,166,723 1,166,723 - - = ~
251,629 56,926 - 127,042 - 67,259
(4,541) (4,541) = = 2 ee,
16,906,737 1,857,852 2,518,140 2,056,831 9,316,961 742 ,589
3,972,791 2,678,092 1,294,699 - = =
5,720,632 - = 712,667 4,537,637 386,771
599 , 043 - = 317,518 - 249 ,891
644.201 65,751 58,272 1527537 323 ,104 31,223
1,319,378 116,450 23,979 349 ,249 808 ,459 12,865
800 , 841 161,974 171,309 125,358 264,351 74,237
567 ,656 263 ,907 18,915 15 ,832 269 ,002 =
69,150 17,116 11,872 49 ,445 =
318,773 493 ,967 759 ,459 639 ,968 126,529
= = 1,182 651,939 =
662 ,026 - 662 ,026 - - =
22,404 = 22,404 = = =
- (2,254,104) 289,700 116,364 1,761,099 40,417
17,487,302 1,419,993 3,052,387 2,562,038 9,305,004 921,933
$4,385,636 1,858,347 = 1,493 ,041 286,144 389 ,906
16,906,737 1,857,852 2,518,140 2,056,831 9,316,961 742 ,589
17,487,302 1,419,993 3,052,387 2,562,038 9,305,004 921 ,933
(63 ,322) - - - - =
257 ,320 ~ = - - =
(227 ,064) (21,053) - (206,011) = -
= - - 300 ,945 — =
= (13 ,037) = 26,950 (15,572) —
= (8,212) = = 8,212 =
- (534,247) 534,247 - = =
(33,066) (576,549) 534,247 121,884 (7,360) =
(613,631) (138,690) = (383 ,323) 4,597 (179 ,344)
$3,772,005 1,719,657 - 1,109,718 290,741 210,562

See accompanying notes to financial statements.
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
PRIVATE FUNDS

Statement of Changes in Fund Balances
Year ended 30 June 1971

Endowment and Similar Funds

Total

PmertiCcenatSOItne: L970! occ ccoctssonsscsescee=-ccchsesesencee $32 ,837 ,363

djustments from cash to accrual basis................
djusted balance at 30 June 1970..........0...cc00
dditions:

Grants and contracts net of refunds.................. -
Investment income.......................:::0008 -
Gifts and bequests...... 1,676,848
Gross profit on sales... =
MSE CAL << juecsasseosss~ee0see000 Bis
aR TENE eee coco ace ooe ee cns cdenece dete actenttsbeecedgeakt

32 , 837 ,363

(114,370)
1,562,478
eductions (additions):
Expenditures:

Salary and benefits:
PNGIIMUISERA CIV Cs eos tec-cenccrtssccitcaseescvescosscostacearss

Purchases for collection
Travel and transportation.............
Equipment and facilities..............
Supplies and material.....
Rent and utilities..........
Communication.............
Contractual service...
Computer rental...................
Promotion and advertising
MPFR TCC LA GION oes c oo oc dsocenecdasesscccsevesscazeceueseseszecees
Administrative expenditures applicable to
OLN TEETE TH TOTC Ls es ae ae ee

Total deductions carried forward.............. -

djusted balance at 30 June 1970, brought
forward $32 ,837 ,363

Total additions, brought forward.............. 1,562,478
Total deductions, brought forward............ -

ransfers in (out):
Income added to principal..........0.........000.....0002
Transfer to unexpended income............ ee
Transfer to endowment fund............
Transfer to restricted funds—gifts.... 3
Transfer for designated purposes........................
(Transfer to grants) computer services to
POMITMONCIAN UISEI'S se. cc0 sees os soe cc eceaes sosse-daantsacessceses -
Transfer in support of activities

63 ,322
(257,320)

Real estate
acquisition
fund
1,449,751

Current funds
reserved as
an endowment

5,098 ,973

Endowment
Freer Other
13,188,994 13,099,645

13,188,994 13,099,645 5,098,973 1,449,751

1,345 ,256 79,776 251,816

139 ,499 (130,193) (123 ,676) =
139,499 1,215,063 (43 ,900) 251,816

ete Teel Se 0 oh th eth
tlt}

13,188,994 13,099,645 5,098,973

= 63 ,322 =
= (257 ,320) = =
= 46,053 = 181,011

33 ,066
1,595 ,544

PHO PAlELATIS(@NS sence ccses sarees neceocc see eee eee
Net income (loss) after transfers................

= (147,945 ) = 181,011

139,499 1,067,118 (43 ,900) 432 ,827

BeAr Ces At SOM Une ll Os Laas... bec antes: Giteteceatceseeacts $34,432,907

13,328,493 14,166,763 5,055,073 1,882,578

e accompanying notes to financial statements.
30 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1971

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
PRIVATE FUNDS

Notes to Financial Statements

30 June 1971

1. Accounting for Fixed Assets—The Institution records additions to fixed
assets as follows: museum shops and computer equipment purchased with now
appropriated funds are capitalized in the current fund; land and_ buildings
acquired by gift are recorded in the endowment and similar fund at the
appraised value at date of gift except for gifts of certain islands in the Chesa-
peake Bay and the Carnegie Mansion which have been recorded at nominal
values; land buildings, furniture, equipment, works of art, living and other
specimens, and certain other similar property purchased from federal appropria-
tions, nonappropriated funds, except as indicated above or proceeds of gifts
are not included in the accounts of the Institution; depreciation is recorded
only for the computer and business-type activities.

2. Basis of Accounting—On 1 July 1970 the Institution changed its method
of accounting for restricted funds and endowment and similar funds from the
cash receipts and disbursements to the accrual basis. The comparative balance
sheet has been restated to reflect this change—with this change, all private
funds of the Institution are accounted for on the accrual basis.

3. Deferred Magazine Subscripion Expenses—This amount represents pro-
motional expenses incurred in connection with the Smithsonian magazine. These
expenses are to be amortized over a period of twelve months.

4. Notes Payable—The notes payable of 30 June 1971 are summarized as
follows:

6% unsecured note payable to a bank due 25 June 1972 $175,000

Installment note payable secured by computer equipment due
30 June 1976 in monthly payments of $7,993.64 479,614
$654,614

5. Mortgage Notes Payable-——The mortgage notes payable are secured by first
deeds of trust on property acquired in connection with the Chesapeake Bay
Center. Funds for the curtailment of these notes will be transferred from
Restricted Funds—Gifts, designated for the development of the Chesapeake
Bay Center. The details of the mortgage notes payable are as follows:

a. A $252,700 note on property acquired for $376,000. The note is payable in
nineteen consecutive semi-annual installments of $13,300, plus interest at
the prevailing prime rate on the due date of payment but not less than 8%.

b. A $40,941 note on property acquired for $118,533. The note is payable in
monthly installments of $451.02, including interest at the rate of 6%, with
the final payment due on 1 November 1989.

6. Commitments.—Pursuant to an agreement, dated 9 October 1967, between
the Institution and the Cooper Union for the Advancement of Science and Art,
STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY 31

the Institution acquired, on 1 July 1968, all funds belonging to the Cooper
Union for use exclusively for museum purposes, and certain articles of tangible
personal property as defined in the agreement.

The agreement provided, among other covenants, that the Institution would
maintain a museum in New York City and has pledges in excess of $800,000
for the support of such a museum. Pledges in the amount of $660,000 have been
collected to date.
eeacaa

eel? ei) t) ee eur] ald ihe
Mliqers? #9 nl Ae (ad aga oer) nena a coy nate

jeegrerireh wii |) FON >
‘ o (4% 6 4 Fh . is Peeis oreye
binca «om sl axet yn Prt " MItg 1 J

ier ee: 4 , orgim © oomph wer Der ets ier) we |
eat oval (CRU?  friveros ay een) Geer umt « duu

Ps ql » i seg 7 «g
> Nyad - ’
ay ‘ 7 ® 1 1 ,
a { ; : cre
settee) be a é Pr
he tee . + a
iN ee i.
=
jot sie
sy 100 =%
bs ( =~
— Z
j jie wii r
4 vied (racks Al ¢ eet, wl lat
; - ts a = fA os i@
; » mia i 12 os
~ ih
' (pee Hii ~ fe oa
A W and ohh dy ti ei
rips it 6 inc®. SR
} Linene —
7 ‘ie tf @ PACK Orr FF jene iz
. . ;2 Pa v¢ setter ¢ anyone Awe
Py iv ivé ae? & pea / t) yeas
pug Mae Pésca +¢ (te Oring eto gt
“ » te jifed “e. emlmeeion ee
ae A 2s wtp bad é Chom ofleg oil ie
, a Piece Qe Ge!) Grea uy
© I é +eal S lie Ee) «ee fort Ge ay + ;
Tae az uyeers). peguaeee!. Ge ets al The
om emcee Cemiienks T's 1 i

ve cocaine pli ep & Che Gb Bee al pee ;
, Peres (9 @) (ete as args it wy 5) 140085 Te :
meee y inktltgat wl PATO, Reiteraicg, OleeEee FT es it
they’ Saat -Graew cue on ) Miyrenshes F

4 téveni foeehe -Turseend to 4) pret, dkout 04
de Ante yi bies diel ee Comm? 828 tev ce av mnrbiein a

= Pay :
SCIENCE

‘on INAUGURATION of the Environmental Science Program this year

was a major step in coordinating the relatively disparate activities
of the Institution’s scientific bureaus. The funding of this program
as a line item in our budget has given clear recognition to the special
capabilities of the Smithsonian to conduct multidisciplinary research
on two major ecosystems.

Under the direction of the Assistant Secretary (Science) a coordi-
nated research plan has begun on a shallow water marine and a
decidious forest ecosystem. Comparative studies of temperate and
tropical aspects of these two ecosystems will be primarily done at the
Smithsonian’s research facilities on the Chesapeake Bay and in
Panama. Emphasis will be on determining primary and secondary
productivity of the ecosystems and developing techniques for moni-
toring their normally occurring changes.

This coordinated study will allow the Smithsonian to use the
computer programming talents of the Smithsonian Astrophysical
Observatory, the long experience of the Radiation Biology Labora-
tory in measuring solar radiation, the great taxonomic ability of the
National Museum of Natural History, and the knowledge of animal
behavior gained from the research of scientists at the Zoo. By bring-
ing all of these hitherto independent research operations into focus
under a common program, the Institution can finally take full
advantage of its many scientific resources to help understand the
complex nature of our environment.

The reports of the separate bureaus which follow give good
evidence of the vigor of science at the Smithsonian. Important ques-
tions of policy, however, continue to arise. Space on the Mall for our
collections is about exhausted and an off-Mall study and storage
center seems inevitable. Scientific collections are only valuable if
they can be used; thus it is essential to furnish laboratory space
adjacent to the collections. Which collections can be moved and
where they should be located are questions now being considered.

The exhibitions of the National Air and Space Museum, now
under the directorship of astronaut Michael Collins, continues to
occupy a World War I metal shed and various halls in the Arts and

33
34 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1971

Industries Building. The thousands of visitors certainly deserve
better and we hope that construction of the long-delayed, new
museum to house all these exhibitions under one roof will be fin-
ished in time for the Bicentennial in 1976.

Midway through the fiscal year the Assistant Secretary (Science)
Sidney R. Galler left the Smithsonian to become the Deputy Assist-
ant Secretary for Environmental Affairs in the Department of
Commerce. His five years service with the Institution was marked
by a rapid rise in new science programs and he will be sorely missed.
Dr. David Challinor, formerly Director of the Office of International
Activities, has been serving as Acting Assistant Secretary (Science).

National Museum of Natural History

As in all research/education centers over the country, the year
was one of retrenchment, deferred needs, and constantly revised
priorities. Rather than lose any of its excellent staff, this Museum
chose to keep the people even though that decision meant drastically
reduced funding for items other than salaries. By a combination of
constant attention to fiscal details, priority reevaluations, and not a
few sacrifices, this was a highly rewarding year. Examples of the
achievements and developments that support this point of view are
presented in the following pages.

RESEARCH

Although there were fewer trips for field and museum research
and less participation in scientific meetings by the staff, there was a
continuing flow of high quality research products. With a small
portion of the funds available to the Institution for environmental
sciences, research programs were initiated in soil biology, on coral
reef ecology, and on the Panamanian biota of the shallow inshore
waters. These complement and augment the more than a century of
natural history research that continues to supply the fundamental
data upon which other ecological projects have to be founded.

The impact of environmental conditions on early man influenced
both his cultural and physical evolution. For example, data from
large numbers of prehistoric eastern Mediterranean human skeletons
show increasing longevity and improved health effects with the
development of farming and stable village life, in contrast to the
earlier mesolithic hunting and gathering life-support techniques.

SCIENCE 35

Postdoctoral Research Associate Arnfried Antonius surveys a coral reef at a
depth of 20 meters off Northeast Key, Glover’s Reef, British Honduras, in a
survey to select reefs suitable for a long term ecological study.

A natural consequence of longer life and better health was the
beginning of the population increase so alarming in some parts of
the modern world.

Dating of skeletal remains is critical to these studies and a method
based on the rate of decay of protein in bone has been further per-
fected in the physical anthropology laboratories. From simulated
aging experiments under carefully controlled conditions, it appears
that amino-acid residues in teeth may serve as a useful index of
archeological or geological age. Also, residues of certain amino-acids
in bone appear from other studies to decrease with advancing age of
the individual.

Such data are also important to archeological investigations of the
cultural developments of ancient man, whether in our own Midwest,
the deserts of Afghanistan, or an ancient town in Israel. The latter
is the site of a multiyear excavation and study which began during
the fiscal year at Tell Jemmeh in the western Negev. The site in-
cludes 15 meters of cultural debris, representing occupation from the
second century B.c. back to the beginning of the Late Bronze Age
in mid-15th century B.c. The excavations of this prehistoric site, at
the crossing of two great trade routes, are utilizing techniques that
36 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1971

SS ee

Workers, most of whom are volunteers from the United States, searching for
artifacts on the Tell Jemmeh project, directed by Dr. Gus W. Van Beek. From
materials found thus far, the site is presumed to be an ancient palace.

will help reconstruct the features of the total economy and the
relationships of the people to their surroundings.

Characterization of plants and animals, their distribution geo-
graphically and stratigraphically, and their relationships with each
other and the total environment continue to be major components
of the Museum’s research programs. Numerous contributions to our
understandings of neotropical plants were completed, including the
second volume of Flora Neotropica and several manuscripts for the
Flora Ilustrada Catarinense (Brazil). Planning for the Flora North
America Program was also greatly advanced, which will lead to the
initiation of the implementation stage in January 1972. Independ-
ently and in cooperation with the taxonomists, the staff-anatomists
carried out studies of internal structure and its evolutionary signifi-
cance in several monocotyledonous families and in the Ginseng
family.

The earliest occurring, and the first described, fossil plants of the
Lower Devonian from the Canadian Arctic were described by one
paleobotanist who then turned his attention to plants of the same
time period in Australia, eastern Canada, and the southeastern
SCIENCE 37

United States. A colleague, working at a much more recent time-
level, conducted some very promising investigations of leaf archi-
tecture with important phylogenetic implications among both fossil
and Recent taxa.

Extensive regional studies on the composition, relationships, and
distribution of marine invertebrate faunas, including West Indian
shrimps, Australian amphipods, and Indopacific littorinid snails,
have been completed. Continuing faunal studies have led to the
investigation of complex ecological problems, such as host-parasite
relationships between fishes and copepod crustaceans and competi-
tion for space among sponges.

Studies of fossil organisms are the key to paleoecological con-
clusions but constituents of the sediments are important for these
and modern ecological studies as well. For example, two minerals
(pyrophyllite and talc) have been demonstrated, by a study by our
sedimentologists, to be widely distributed over the continental shelf
along the southeastern coast, but absent among the riverborne par-
ticulates discharged into the Atlantic. It is concluded that these
mineral particles are introduced into the system as wastes from
industrial processes, and may be useful in detecting and monitoring
pollution in coastal waters.

Although uses of the scanning electron microscope (sEM) have
been diverse, depending partly on availability of funds for materials,
it has had its greatest impact in research on fossil invertebrates. For
example, underwater investigations of a family of translucent, thin-
shelled scallops demonstrated that they have a shell microstructure,
as revealed by the sem, quite unlike that of the common scallops.
This, with other data, suggests close relationship of this family to a
group thought to have become extinct 225 million years ago. Studies
of deep-sea drilling cores are also greatly facilitated by the use of the
SEM.

The enormous task of studying and classifying insects and their
allies progressed with the publication of an outstanding volume con-
cerned with the microlepidoptera of the remote tropical Pacific
island of Rapa; a study of the behavior, life histories, and classifica-
tion of a genus of small moths; a paper on the caddis flies of the
Amazon Basin, based on research undertaken in cooperation with
fishery officials in Brazil; and a very significant paper on the co-
evolution of squashes/gourds and their bee associates, which are
species-specific and entirely dependent on the plants for food in both
larval and adult stages.

The interrelationships of animals are sometimes extremely close
38 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1971

The Scanning Electron Microscope, recently acquired by the National Museum
of Natural History, is used by many of the Museum curators for the examination
and illustration of tiny specimens too small or too delicate to be seen by con-
ventional microscopes. The instrument has the capacity to provide images from
20 to 20,000 magnifications and can form these into three dimensional stereo-
graphic pictures, which reveal many features never previously observed.

and the phenomenon of mimicry is one of the most interesting. Field
and laboratory studies of coral reef blenny fishes in Israel demon-
strated that several kinds of mimicry had resulted in close resem-
blance of three species that are not phylogenetically close. In another
group, a computer program has been developed to simulate the
effects of predation on Batesian mimetic populations, providing
predictions of the population structure of succeeding generations.
The more than 300 species of fishes of the Appalachian Mountains
were treated in terms of their ecological preferences, drainage system
occupied, as well as their distinguishing characteristics. The geo-
logical history of the river drainage system was also reviewed and
correlated with the early dispersal and current distribution of the
species. Such studies have obvious usefulness to environmentalists
concerned with appraisals of fresh waters threatened with pollution
SCIENCE 39

and the setting of rational standards for improvement based on
ecological information.

In addition to the continuing research on lunar materials, which
has involved most of the mineral sciences staff, a highly significant
monograph on the Allende (Mexico) meteorite was completed and
distributed. Parts of this, the largest stony meteorite fall on record
(February 1969), have been shared for study with 99 other scientists
in 79 organizations around the world. The national collections now
include 2100 fragments of this meteorite with a total weight in
excess of 400 kilograms. Studies of petrology, volcanology, and
mineralogy have progressed and a long-awaited new program in
crystallography has been initiated.

COLLECTIONS

The usefulness of natural history materials for documenting the
composition of ecological systems, extant and in the past, is well
recognized. The unique capability they provide to sample organisms
gathered in pre-industrial, pre-pollution times was underscored by
an experiment concerned with mercury as a pollutant. ‘Tuna speci-
mens collected in 1878 were found to contain amounts of mercury
considerably in excess of that currently permitted by law to be
present in foods. A National Science Foundation grant was obtained
for the evaluation of the feasibility of using existing oceanographic
specimens to determine pollutant levels in the oceans. At year’s end
work was underway to answer this very important question.

The evolution of central, departmental, specimen-processing units
has continued and this year some of the largest, outstanding back-
logs of specimens—plants and insects—have been greatly reduced. For
example, nearly 135,000 specimens of insects and their relatives were
accessioned and distributed for study to the appropriate specialists
by the Entomological Preparation Laboratory.

The collections of the National Anthropological Archives are of a
different sort but as they become better organized and more avail-
able, an increasing number of visiting scholars are using them. These
manuscripts, field notes, correspondence, photographs, and draw-
ings are a rich source of research data formerly unavailable. Descrip-
tive inventories of manuscripts relating to specific subjects, or the
works of a single author, are now available to respond to specific
inquiries of researchers.

One of the most important improvements with respect to the
collections generally is the continuing application of data-processing
40 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1971

Dr. Bruce B. Collette (seated) of NOAA’s National Marine Fisheries Service
demonstrates to Mr. Edgar N. Gramblin, National Museum of Natural History,
the removal of a flesh sample from a 30-year old skipjack tuna (Katsuwonus
pelamis) from Peru for determination of levels to total mercury and methyl

mercury. Specimens of tuna examined include some collected almost 100 years
ago.

techniques referred to in earlier annual reports. Significant progress
was made in the use of automated methods for capture, storage, and
manipulation of data related to museum specimens. Modest funding
allowed the Museum to initiate a long-range program for the con-
SCIENCE 4]

Mr. Frederick J. Collier, Collection Manager, consulting a computer listing of
specimen data. These lists are used by Smithsonian scientists to locate quickly
and easily specimens in the Museum’s vast collections. The lists also are distrib-
uted to interested scientists and serve to circulate widely information on the
Museum’s collections.

version of ledger- and label-preparation from hand to machine
methods. Procedures begun in four departments also include com-
puter accumulation and rearrangement of the data followed by pro-
duction of composite catalogs and cross-listings for local use and for
42 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1971

publication. Information on over 30,000 specimens was processed
and plans for the future call for substantial broadening of the scope
of the program. The ultimate aim is to capture data on virtually all
incoming specimens while gradually converting collections-data al-
ready on hand in response to internal or external requests.

A most promising development with respect to management of
information resources was the endorsement by the Conference of
Directors of Systematic Collections of a cooperative intermuseum
approach to the problem. The conference voted at its May meeting
to accept and implement a blueprint for such cooperation, which
calls for the National Museum of Natural History to serve as the
interim clearinghouse for data collected in the program. Fossil and
modern mammal specimens and botanical type-specimens will be
the first groups to be treated by an initial informal consortium of
six or seven museums and herbaria. Support will be sought to
broaden the program to cover more groups of organisms and to
include many more institutions curating and researching systematic
collections.

EXHIBITS

Although the results are just beginning to show, this has been a
period of considerable change. Planning has been advanced for
several halls and parts of a hall on physical geology and another on
ice-age vertebrates were opened to the public during the year, al-
though construction continues in both. At the same time, much has
been accomplished on the maintenance and updating of many of
the exhibits already on view.

A new approach to exhibits planning and preparation has been
initiated this year. While the staff scientists must always be the
ultimate source for evaluation of the accuracy of the science to be
presented, they are not required to spend literally years conceiving
and writing exhibits. A small team of scientifically trained con-
ceptualizers/writers (an exhibits planning group) works with the
curators, and interacts with the other half of the team, the exhibits
designers and producers. The planning group is also the focus for
exhibits experimentation with techniques and subjects, among which
one of the more interesting is the use of live insects to demonstrate
biological principles in an Insect Zoo, manned by volunteers.

Formal preliminary planning has also begun for the Museum’s
part in the American Bicentennial Celebration of 1976. The themes
are being defined and refined by the staff in cooperation with a
contractual consultant in preparation for detailed development in .
the year ahead.
SCIENCE 43

National Air and Space Museum

During fiscal year 1971, the Institution appointed Mr. Michael
Collins Director of the National Air and Space Museum and Mr.
Melvin B. Zisfein Deputy Director.

Mr. Collins came to the Institution from the Department of
State where he had served as Assistant Secretary for Public Affairs
and before that as an Air Force Colonel assigned to the space pro-
gram where he participated as an astronaut in the Gemini 10 and
Apollo 11 flights.

Mr. Zisfein comes from a career in air and space research having
served as Associate Director of the Franklin Institute Research
Laboratories, General Manager of the Astromechanics Research
Division of the Conroe Corporation, and Chief of the Dynamics
Department of Bell Aircraft Corporation.

An important addition this year to the Museum’s collections
which are maintained by the Department of Astronautics was the
complete reference file of the late Willy Ley, representing forty
years of historical research and study. Many historical photographs
have been received and cataloged along with the acquisition of sound
and video tape collections.

The most significant artifact received and placed on exhibit this
fiscal year was the Apollo Lunar Module 2. Since lunar modules
never return to earth from their space voyages (being unable to
withstand the temperature and pressure of reentry into the earth’s
atmosphere), we are especially fortunate to have this rare flight
artifact, which, though never flown, is identical to those now resting
on the surface of the moon.

The collection of space art was increased by some twelve works
of art.

The Department of Astronautics answered hundreds of letters
requesting information concerning its specimens. Courses on the
history of astronautics and the national space program were taught
by the staff to youngsters of Smithsonian associates members.

The consultation activities of the Aeronautics Department staff
continue at a high level providing advice and coordination to numer-
ous museums and interested individuals, both here and abroad.

The professional staff also assisted the Civil Service Commission
in establishing standards for personnel desiring air and space
museum employment.

To revitalize the Flight Materiel Division of the Aeronautics De-
partment, the curatorial function pertaining to aviation clothing,

441-283 O- 71 - 4
44 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1971

medals, insignia and personal equipment was reorganized. The
preservation of related artifacts will be improved by the acquisition
of special storage equipment and new larger storage space. With the
completion of these steps, the thousands of artifacts in the flight
materiel study collection will be available for the first time for
examination and study by researchers and scholars.

The first priority of the Information and Education Department
is the collection of documentation and the determination of the loca-
tion of other specialized documentation holdings. In the vicinity of
Washington, D. C. there exists the largest holdings of air and space
documentation in the world. To supplement the Nasm Historical
Research Center’s extensive holdings, major documentation collec-
tions in the field of air and space technology exist in many other
government and educational agencies.

During the past year the collections of two early American pilots,
Blance Stuart Scott and Beckwith Havens, have been added to the
holdings of the Historical Research Center, as well as a collection
from an early Norwegian pilot, Mr. Sem-Jacobsen.

Under a grant initiated in 1964 by the Daniel and Florence Gug-
genheim Foundation, the first reports of a survey to determine the
impact on aerospace development resulting from two of the seven
schools of aeronautical engineering established by the Daniel Gug-
genheim Fund for the Promotion of Aeronautics were completed
and submitted to the foundation. The two schools were Leland
Stanford University and the California Institute of Technology.

An already established oral history program of voice tape record-
ing was expanded to include video recording. The department has
now on hand a complete spectrum of voice recording equipment to
meet all needs.

The following figures show a comparison of this year’s activities
with last year’s:

FY 1971 FY 1970
Requests “answered oi. cusccn sin ope otaclays isk le ee acbaaigs 4987 4000
VAISTLOTSY a crera sce itis Sem eM aE EL a ee 1440 1300
DONAMONS eee eee ee ee TRE CEE ee 85 62
Photovorderssprocesscdsaeraeees se ee ee eee 744 637
Newalibranyititleshreceived armen at eee aan eee 177 132
Total dibrary, volumes,receiveds.2.4.119 fetta + teeta 269 194
‘Totalymasl¢recetved™ spose czas bee 11,885 10,000+-

The urgencies of preservation have demanded that the major
effort of the Preservation and Restoration Division be devoted to
the maintenance of the collections.

Approximately 1800 specimens from the existing collections (700
SCIENCE 45

astronautical and 1100 aeronautical) were verified by identification
and category number against the accession records and properly
warehoused and inventoried on our locator system.

Forty-five (45) shipments, totaling 107,949 pounds of astronautical
material and 18 shipments totaling 25,548 pounds of aeronautical
material were received to be added to the collections.

A total of 675 (465 astronautical and 210 aeronautical) new speci-
mens were processed through identification, cataloging, inventory,
and warehousing.

A considerable increase in astronautic artifacts restoration has
been required because of the preparation requirements to support
the world-wide loan program. Restoration was continued on the
Douglas World Cruiser, the Nieuport Type 83, and on the Con-
grieve Rocket. The Fokker D—VII restoration was completed and put
on exhibit. During this fiscal year the department also exhibited
the Sirius, “Polar Star,’ and the FC-2, as well as preparing for
traveling exhibitions the Gemini 6, 10, 11, and 12; the Mercury
7, 9, and 12; the Apollo 8; and the Goddard (1940-341) rocket.

The year ended with the augmented National Air and Space
Museum staff developing an expanded program of study, publica-
tion, exhibit development, public service and new facility develop-
ment for the coming years.

Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory

This year, research at the Observatory (sAo) exemplified the com-
plex relationship between science and technology—the symbiosis
between the two illustrating the development of both.

The 60-inch reflector atop Mt. Hopkins in Arizona incorporates
several unusual features that facilitate its use for study of the energy
distribution in the light from planets and stars. At the lowest
spectral resolution, the telescope has been used with an infrared
photometer to measure the total amount of energy radiated by dust
shells surrounding hot stars. These measurements are being inter-
preted to infer the amount of mass contracting in the youngest stars
and to reveal the amount of dust condensing above or ejected from
some of the most rapidly rotating stars. Together with low-resolution
spectrographic observations of absorption and emission lines origi-
nating in the outer atmospheres of the rapidly rotating stars, these
measurements offer new insight into the differential rotation of the
hot stars.

Observations of the far-ultraviolet energy distribution of stars
46 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1971

already observed by Project Celescope are being reduced to permit
a detailed comparison with data predicted by the stellar-atmospheres
group using computer synthesis.

A new interferometer at Mt. Hopkins is making observations of
cool pulsating variable stars; the resultant data will enable sao
scientists to map the velocity variations throughout the stellar
atmosphere. An other interferometer is being used to map the
atmospheres of Jupiter and Venus. These observations have already
revealed strong variable winds in the atmosphere of Venus.

The easy access to accurate national time standards through the
LORAN-C system has allowed sao scientists to use Harvard’s 61-inch
telescope at Agassiz Station to make time-of-arrival measurements of
the optical pulses from the Crab Nebula pulsar to a typical precision
of 5 psec. These measurements enable them: (1) to trace the evolu-
tion of a rapidly rotating (30 revolutions per second), highly magnet-
ized neutron star, which this pulsar appears to be; (2) to check with
precision and perhaps improve some of the orbital parameters of
our solar system, particularly the orbit of the earth; and (3) to test
some of the predictions of general relativity such as the “gravita-
tional red shift,” which indicates that the rate of a clock depends on
the local gravitational potential.

It has already been learned that the dominant slowdown mecha-
nism of the Crab pulsar is through electromagnetic radiation caused
by the rotating dipolar magnetic field. The systematic deviations
from the exact predictions are, however, still unexplained. One of
these jumps in a period of 3 parts in 10°, which occurred last Sep-
tember, could be interpreted as a change of only a thousandth of an
inch in the typically 12-mile diameter of a neutron star.

A new interdisciplinary study—astrochemistry—has emerged
through the alliance of radio astronomy and laboratory research.
Recently detected distant gas clouds by a joint Smithsonian / Harvard
observing team is the characteristic radiation of methyl alcohol. The
astronomical discovery of this organic molecule may give part of the
eventual answer to the question of how life evolves from primordial
matter.

The Microwave Spectroscopy Laboratory supports the radio
astronomy program of the Smithsonian Institution by measuring the
characteristic wavelengths of selected molecules, thus providing the
information needed for tuning radio telescope receivers and for
analyzing Doppler shifts in the astronomical line spectra. Over the
first year, measurements have been made on several organic and in-
organic molecules that have current importance to astronomy, such
SCIENCE 47

as formic acid, methyl amine, and hydroxyl. For his research of this
type, H. E. Radford of sao has been given the University of New
Hampshire Distinguished Alumni Award.

Radio telescopes, thousands of miles—even continents—apart,
can be used in conjunction. They are synchronized with precise
atomic clocks whose errors are only one second per million years.
Some of the most astounding recent discoveries in astronomy have
been made possible with the perfection of these techniques called
very long-baseline interferometry (vLB1). In April 1971, the Amer-
ican Academy of Arts and Sciences honored the individuals who
pioneered the development of vip astronomy, by presentation of
the Rumford Premium. One of the co-winners of the Rumford
Medal, the oldest scientific prize in the United States, was James
Moran of the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory.

Another common means of communication—television—is now
being used for astronomical purposes in the study of meteors.
Meteors can be observed in our atmosphere in several ways, by the
human eye, by camera, or by radar. The radar technique, however,
does not work well on meteors bright enough to be photographed.

Thus a new and most recent technique employed is television of
low light level. 1ts accuracy is comparable to that of radar, and it
does reach meteors faint enough to be observed effectively by radar,
thus providing a calibration of the radar method. Observations of
the same meteors by both radar and television can relate light to
ionization. Reduction of the radar and television observations and
the combination of them by means of computer programs are well
advanced. The results should give the relation between a meteor’s
brightness and velocity and the number of electrons per unit of
path length it leaves behind.

Until recently, those meteors surviving fiery passage through the
atmosphere to become meteorites have been the only extraterrestrial
material available for study. But the most spectacular technological
development of the 1960s, the Apollo Program, has now made lunar
samples available.

Four sao scientists have devoted essentially full time, for the past
year, to a study of the mineralogic and petrologic characteristics of
small rock fragments from samples of the lunar soil. A tablespoon of
“coarse fines” (the sieve fraction between | and 10 mm in diameter)
contains about 2000 particles, each with its own story to tell. The
particles are examined under the microscope, and the microscopic
crystals are analyzed with an electron microprobe.

The approach has been very rewarding because it has been pos-
48 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1971

Two SAO scientists examine samples of lunar soil returned by Apollo 14
astronauts.

sible to observe and study lunar rock types not represented among
the larger rock specimens. It appears now that the near-surface
regions of the moon (the “crust,” to use a terrestrial term) are com-
posed of three principal types of rock: dark basalt, a volcanic rock
that filled the mare basins some 3.5 billion years ago; a lighter
colored rock, termed norite, that is grossly basaltic in composition,
but differs from the mare basalt in details of its chemical composi-
tion; and anorthosite, a light-colored rock of peculiar composition,
in that it consists largely of a single mineral, plagioclase feldspar.
The two latter light-colored rocks are believed to be samples of the
lunar terra regions and the floors of the mare basins (beneath the
dark basalt floods that fill them now).

There are discrepancies between the topographic irregularities of
the lunar surface and the local value of lunar gravity (as revealed by
SCIENCE 49

tracking of lunar satellites), such that the lunar highlands, although
they represent a local excess in the amount of lunar material, do not
exert a proportionately higher gravitational attraction than the
lowlands. This can only mean that the lunar surface is underlain
by rock of variable mass density. In particular, a lunar model that
reconciles the lunar gravity field with its topography would involve
a thickness of about 25 kilometers of anorthosite (low density)
beneath the lunar highlands; a similar thickness of norite (medi-
um density) beneath most of the mare basins; and the absence of
these rocks, in favor of high-density mare basalt, in the other maria,
those that display ‘“‘mascons.”

The satellite data from lasers are the natural technological ad-
vance beyond optical camera data. Whereas the camera data have
an accuracy of 20 meters, those from laser tracking currently have
an accuracy of 50 centimeters, roughly an improvement of two
orders of magnitude.

The sao geodesy and geophysics program is participating in the
International Satellite Geodesy Experiment (IsAGEX) organized by
the Centre National d’Etude Spatials (cNEs), France. Fifteen laser-
tracking systems are taking part. This observing program provides
the basis for analysis that will result in a revised sao Standard Earth.

The laser data will open a new chapter in the study of the solid
earth. They may help answer questions that have intrigued scientists
for centuries. For analyses at 5 meters, the earth can be assumed
rigid. At 20 centimeters, it is very active. Crustal motions are 5
centimeters per year and earthquake displacements can be meters
and are of unknown scale. The solid-earth tide varies with geo-
graphical region. These changes of mass distribution result in a
complex rotational motion of the earth. This rotation, termed polar
motion, will be measured with greater accuracy and possible pre-
cursors of earthquakes can then be determined. For the first time,
these can be measured.

Meanwhile, current optical data have been used to relate the de-
tailed mass distribution determined in 1969 to tectonic activity and
to measure the solid earth tide, the annual variation in the mass
distribution, and the motion of the earth’s rotation axis with re-
spect to the solid earth.

A new combination of data has enabled sao scientists to complete
the construction of new atmospheric models, now published as sao
Special Report No. 332 and soon to be incorporated into the forth-
coming edition of the cospaR International Reference (cra). These
models try to represent all the observed variations of density and
50 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1971

composition at heights between 100 and 1500 km. The many differ-
ent types of variation (the 11-year solar cycle, day-to-day solar activity,
geomagnetic activity, the diurnal and semiannual variations, seasonal-
latitudinal variations, the pole-to-pole migration of helium, and the
escape of hydrogen) are all represented by means of empirical equa-
tions. The success of the models in representing the observed
densities can be seen from the fact that the departures from the
models average about 10 to 15 percent even in the height region
between 400 and 500 kilometers, where the range of densities reaches
a factor of 200.

Past attempts to represent the semiannual density variation in the
heterosphere as a consequence of temperature variation have run into
difficulties in two height regions: below 200 kilometers and above
1000 kilometers. A new analysis of the semi-annual density varia-
tions at different height levels fails to show a dependence of the
amplitude with the sunspot cycle. All difficulties are removed if it is
assumed that the semiannual density variation is not a direct con-
sequence of temperature variations.

These are some highlights of science and technology at sao in
1971. Meanwhile, the Observatory is planning new programs and
new instrumentation to meet the challenges of astrophysics through
the rest of the 1970s. One innovative project, conducted jointly with
the University of Arizona, would result in the construction of a
relatively inexpensive telescope of six 72-inch mirrors having the
light-collecting capability of a 175-inch conventional instrument.
Sao also expects to enter the field of millimeter astronomy, an
exciting new venture.

Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute

Fiscal Year 1971 was a year of rapid growth for the Tropical Re-
search Institute (sTri). Salaries and expenses grew by 20 percent,
permanent staff grew by 21 percent, visitor days grew by 76 percent,
staff seminars grew by 22 percent, and major new assets were
acquired.

NEW ASSETS

The most significant development at srri in this fiscal year has
been the construction of a new laboratory building on Naos Island.
The building, scheduled for completion on 30 June, has 4700 square
feet of floor space and is being constructed at a cost of $110,000.
SCIENCE 5]

Included are six general laboratories, a chemistry lab, three offices,
and a conference room. The new building will be occupied by both
marine and terrestrial biologists; the exchange of ideas and regular
comparison of the different ecologies is something srri has desired
for some time. StTRi will continue to operate its facilities at Barro
Colorado Island, Balboa, Galeta Point, and Cali, Colombia.

A marine launch was obtained by stri from the Panama Canal
Government on intergovernmental transfer in August. Valued at
$29,000, the new ship can sleep eleven and range 400 miles. A re-
search award from the Research Foundation was obtained for
operating costs. The launch, formerly the Governor’s yacht, has been
converted to a research vessel and christened R. V. Tethys. Initial
doubts have been dispelled as to the Tethy’s utility for research; over
3000 miles have already been logged in both oceans and as knowl-
edge of her availability grows, unscheduled time is becoming non-
existent. STRI now has 13 other boats, ranging from a launch licensed
for 45 passengers to a cayuco licensed for none and used only by the
courageous.

Barro Colorado Island has been a national preserve for biological
research since 1940. Its limits have recently been redefined by the
Canal Zone Government to include the waters out to the channel
markers on all sides of the island. This will give srri game wardens
authority to eliminate such things as fishing and killing of crocodiles
and tapirs in waters which are essential to the ecology of the Island.
In addition, three large points of land across the ship channel from
Barro Colorado Island have been leased to srri by the Canal Zone
Government. Large portions of this land have been cleared fairly
recently for lumber and cultivation. Grasslands and secondary

TETHYS

SamTicowaN Thor,

R. V. Tethys at home port at Rodman Naval Base, Canal Zone (Pacific side).
52 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1971

growth research, and investigations comparing the biota and environ-
ment to Barro Colorado Island are planned for this area.

A land lease to an extensive bunker system on Flamenco Island
in Panama Bay was obtained. The bunkers will require extensive
rehabilitation but are expected to be the eventual location of a
Radiation Biology Laboratory monitoring site.

RESEARCH

Str1 can fairly be considered the most outstanding research
center investigating tropical evolutionary biology in the world. In
fiscal 1971 two new programs have provided the stimulus for the
development of an equally significant emphasis in ecological re-
search. One has been a two-phase contract from the Environmental
Protection Agency to study the effects of oil pollution on tropical
shores, including Atlantic and Pacific intertidal reef communities,
mangrove swamps, and sandy beaches. The first phase has provided
a base analysis of temporal and spacial variability of species in com-
munity structures. The second phase (the coming year) will involve
monitoring the same variables while introducing bulk oil into
experimental areas. The research team, which works mostly at the
Galeta Point installation, includes three biologists and two tech-
nicians.

The other significant new program has been the stRI component
of the Environmental Sciences Program. The program is measuring
physical-meteorological factors and correlating them with cycling
and variation of the biota. The terrestrial portion of this program
has included the initiation of rainfall, wind, humidity, evaporation
and temperature measurement at various points on Barro Colorado
Island and the evapotranspiration and nutrient loss from a stream
basin. Measurements are being made in the same area of organic
decomposition and population of soil organisms. Litter fall and the
times of flowering, fruiting, and leaf production in the area are
being extensively studied. Studies of insect abundance and diversity
and the biota of some temporary, unstable ponds and a bat roost
have also been included in the first year’s study.

In the marine area, tide pool analysis of species abundance, diver-
sity, reproductive periods, and recruitment is being carried on. These
data, together with a large portion of the data already gathered for
the Environmental Protection Agency contract, will be correlated

with a wide range of physical monitoring beginning in fiscal year
L972.
SCIENCE 53

Large wier constructed on Barro Colorado Island by Environmental Science
Program employees. Evapotranspiration, nutrient loss, and stream bed biota are
being monitored.

There is a strong possibility that a major program on the tropical
forest biome will soon be launched by the International Biological
Program and that Barro Colorado Island will be one of the primary
sites. Research projects are expected to be carried out on the island
by numerous visiting scientists as well as stri staff members. Several
STRI research projects in human ecology and paleoecology will be
correlated with the International Biological Program.

The crown-of-thorns starfish (Acanthaster planci), which has
recently been so destructive to western Pacific coral reefs, has been
the subject of continued study by Dr. Peter Glynn since his discovery
of them in Central America in April 1970. Results show a stable
population and that one large reef area, which was 80-percent con-
sumed by Acanthaster had in large part been recolonized by young
corals within a year. Dr. Glynn notes, however, that these reefs are
free from human over-collecting, pollution, and coastal destruction,
as well as from violent storms, all factors which have been cited as
contributing to the devastation of western Pacific reefs.

Significant progress has been made in comparative studies of the
54 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1971

Old World Tropics. Six members of our staff traveled to Europe,
Asia, and Africa during the fiscal year in an effort to coordinate
research programs with different institutions to encourage local
scientists to pursue research projects in their areas. Dr. Moynihan
made an extensive visit to establish contacts with various admini-
strative officials and biologists at several educational and research
institutions in the Ivory Coast, Madagascar, India, and New Guinea.
As a result, stri has presented a substantial proposal for research
in India using Public Law 480 funding.

The use of the Colombia station in Cali quadrupled during the
past year. More of our staff have visited Colombia with a view toward
establishing new programs. Agreements with the University of El
Valle and the Departmental Museum of Natural History have been
initiated and considerable cooperation and progress has been
attained.

PERSONNEL

Deputy Director Edward H. Kohn left srri in May to become a
special assistant to Mr. Bradley. During Mr. Kohn’s 30 months at
sTRI, the bureau work force grew by 36 percent and the number of
visitors increased by 39 percent. Mr. C. Neal McKinney joined the
staff in February as administrative officer. Mr. McKinney’s back-
ground has been in personnel administration, most recently with
the Environmental Protection Agency. In August, Dr. Judith Lang
joined the staff. A specialist in deep water (slope) coral communities,
she will continue to work primarily in Jamaica. In June, Dr. Hin-
drik Wolda joined the staff. A specialist in population ecology, Dr.
Wolda was a faculty member at the University of Groningen.

Radiation Biology Laboratory

The biosphere is an extremely complex dynamic structure which
requires a large number of parameters to describe even partially its
characteristics at any given geographical location or for a particular
point in time. Nevertheless, organisms regulate their growth pat-
terns to a large extent by responding to changing and interacting
physical factors in the environment. Laboratory experiments in
which environmental variables are precisely controlled have in-
dicated clearly that light quality, intensity, and duration are im-
portant signals or stimuli. In its new facility in Rockville, Maryland,
the Radiation Biology Laboratory is continuing to probe these and
SCIENCE 55

other regulatory responses toward a better understanding of the
molecular, biochemical, and biophysical processes occurring in living
organisms at the cellular and subcellular levels.

It is becoming increasingly more evident that a great deal more
information is needed about daily and seasonal changes in spectral
quality and also about differences in duration and quality of sunlight
that occur naturally and about how these factors are instrumen-
tal in regulating growth and development.

From one latitude to another the light of the sun reaches the earth
at different angles, consequently having traveled longer or shorter
distances through the atmosphere. The quality of incident sunlight,
because of these variances, and certainly the lengths of days, can be
expected to differ significantly from one geographical location to
another. In cooperation with the Environmental Sciences Program
of the Smithsonian a solar radiation monitoring station was estab-
lished at Barrow, Alaska, this year. Automatic measurements of the
irradiance within six biologically important light wavelength bands
are made at three-minute intervals from near sunrise to near sunset.
Measuring at this high northerly latitude, with its relatively long
light paths and comparing with values obtained at other latitudes
will permit assessment concerning the significance of this environ-
mental parameter in controlling growth and distribution of bio-
logical systems. Such data also contribute to estimates of perturba-
tions in daylight caused by man’s intervention in the environment.
There appear, from time to time, applications for these measure-
ments of sunlight that have value and significance in other than
biological fields. It is interesting to note, for example, that data were
furnished for analysis in connection with possible environmental
effects on the atmosphere by the projected supersonic transport.

Light, in order to be effective in initiating regulatory responses,
must be absorbed by cells of plants and animals. This year in the
Radiation Biology Laboratory the pigment structures (phycobili-
somes) in the red alga Porphyridium cruentum have been isolated
for the first time in a pure state. When dissociated and analyzed
they are composed almost entirely of the pigments phycoerythrin
and phycocyanin.

Carotenoids are found in almost every organism. The degradation
product of one of these carotenoids, for example, is needed for
vision in man and other vertebrates. In lower organisms light is
often required for the synthesis of these pigments. The sequential
biochemical pathway of carotenoid synthesis as regulated by light is
being studied. Several new mutants of Neurospora crassa, albinos,
56 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1971

yellows, and one pink, have been found that synthesize altered
carotenoid contents. It has also béen discovered that D,L, para-
fluorophenylalanine, L-ethionine and D-ethionine inhibit the syn-
thesis of carotenoids in light, and these compounds are being
utilized to map the pathway of synthesis.

Chloroplasts of higher plants are required for photosynthesis. The
use of the antibiotics chloramphenicol and the cycloheximide in
following the synthesis of chloroplast protein suggests that the
enzyme ribulose-1, 5-diphosphate carboxylase occurs in part in the
chloroplasts and in part in the cytoplasm. In contrast, the synthesis
of chloroplast ribosomal proteins appears to occur entirely in the
cytoplasm. It has further been found that the inability of aged
leaves to photosynthesize is related to the loss of manganese. In addi-
tion, the process of electron transport leading to photosynthetic
oxygen evolution has been found to consist of at least two steps.

In addition to these selected new research findings, it can be re-
ported that laboratory facilities have been about 90 percent com-
pleted. The major portions of the research activities of the Labora-
tory have been reported at scientific meetings, both national and
international and have been published in scientific journals.

National Zoological Park

Zoos are challenged to become net producers rather than net
consumers of wildlife. As more species become rare or endangered
in the wild, zoos cannot continue to replenish losses by additional
captures. Acquisitions of some species are now restricted to zoos
which seem competent to propagate them.

While most species kept in zoos have reproduced, at least oc-
casionally, sustained reproduction of most has not yet been achieved. —
In many cases, captive-born adults fail to mate and reproduce —
as well as wild-caught specimens. Each year, however, some addi-
tional progress is achieved.

This year the Division of Scientific Research reported the first
captive breeding of the pacarana, second-generation captive births |
of the long-tailed tenrec, and third-generation births of Sminthopsis
macrura, a mouse-like marsupial. Significant births and hatchings in
the main collection included a pair of golden marmosets, a species in
grave danger of extinction; two kagus, a rare bird from New
Caledonia; and a tree kangaroo.

The most significant additions to the collection were a group of

SCIENCE 57

bongos, rare antelopes seldom seen in zoos. Three were trapped by
John Seago in Kenya, the culmination of a capture and conditioning
effort that began in 1968. A fourth was obtained in West Africa. The
Government of India presented the Zoo with a female lesser panda,
a prospective mate for our single male.

The scientific program yielded a number of staff publications re-
porting earlier research. Resident Scientist John F. Eisenberg
initiated a study of sloths in Panama, using radio telemetry to track
them in the rain-forest canopy. The new method indicates density
of sloths exceeding estimates made by earlier methods.

During the year, the National Zoological Park began to emerge
from a period of austerity. While there had been no reduction in
the number of positions authorized by the Congress, personnel ceil-
ings imposed in previous years required that a number of positions
be left vacant. Recent increases in professional staff were, to some
extent, made at the expense of other categories. Since standards of
animal care could not be compromised, the pinch was left chiefly in
maintenance of buildings and grounds. At the end of the fiscal year,
the ceiling had been increased to 234 permanent positions, whereas
the total authorized was 249.

For the fourth consecutive year, there was no appropriation for
capital construction, in keeping with wartime restrictions on federal
building. Approximately $1.4 million of funds previously appro-
priated were frozen, pending Congressional approval of revised
construction plans, although sums were appropriated for renova-
tions and repairs.

In anticipation of future appropriations, the firm of Faulkner,
Fryer and Vanderpool, Architects, and Lester Collins, Landscape
Architect, were retained to redesign the Zoo’s master plan. They will
be guided by the admonition of the Commission of Fine Arts to
emphasize the exhibition of animals in well-designed landscape
settings and minimize the visual impact of buildings. Preliminary
site plans had been completed at the end of the year.

Attendance continued to increase, exceeding five million for the
year. Since the zoo is open without charge, with multiple entrances,
visitor counts are based on a sampling formula. The formula was
developed some time ago, and there is reason to believe it now
overestimates attendance. However, the increasing congestion of the
zoo, and especially of its parking lots and roads, is evidence that
crowds are larger each year.

A firm of consulting engineers, having studied the traffic and park-
ing problems, submitted a report with two principal recommen-
58 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1971

dations. The first would replace the present scattered parking lots
with a multi-level garage, providing more spaces. The second was an
interim plan to improve traffic flow, making only minor modifications
in present roads and parking lots. Both are under study, as is the
further recommendation that a fee be charged for parking to offset
costs of construction and service.

In March, a new Department of Zoological Programs was estab-
lished, combining the animal exhibit divisions and the divisions of
Scientific Research, Animal Health, and Pathology. The new post
of Assistant Director for Zoological Programs was created. Dr. John
Eisenberg was named Acting during the recruiting period.

Dr. Sam Weeks joined the staff as curator of birds and Mr.
Harold Egoscue as curator of small mammals and primates.

The Friends of the National Zoo (Fonz) expanded their activi-
ties in education and public service. More than 17,000 school chil-
dren were conducted on planned tours by trained Fonz guides.
Fonz continues to man information posts and provide volunteers
for after-hours “‘preg-watches” and “tiger sits.” The area-wide school
art show received many entries. The trackless trains began a second
year of successful operation. At year’s end, a new and much larger
sales building for gifts, souvenirs, and balloons was completed and
ready to open.

Office of Environmental Sciences

Studies of the consequences of man’s major alteration of his en-
vironment were initiated during this year, such as the study of the
biology of the intermediate hosts of human parasitic diseases;
schistosomiasis in relationship to the development of the Mekong
River; the impact on their respective environments of the Volta
River in Ghana, the Nairobi National Park in Kenya, the Special
City of Seoul, Korea, the offshore oil exploration in Indonesia, and
the Belem-Brazilia highway in Brazil.

PROGRAM OFFICE OF ECOLOGY

Remote sensing studies of vegetation of the Rhode River water-
shed were carried out under a contract with Nasa. A detailed survey
of the vegetation of the watershed served as “ground truth” for
environmental sensing from helicopters and aircraft using color and
infrared film and image scanning in infrared. Identification of
deciduous forest species by changes in spring and fall foliage colors
SCIENCE 59

was correlated with air photographs. A symposium for the Agency
for International Development was convened to evaluate the po-
tential contribution of remote sensing in resource development and
in environmental planning in developing countries.

A research program on biological control of nonagricultural pests
was initiated, with an 8-month study of sciomyzid fly larvae which
attack and kill snails. Studies were accomplished in Peru, Ghana,
Indonesia, Australia, and the Mekong area in Thailand.

Satellite tracking studies of migrating elk were carried out on
contact with Nasa. One wild elk was located by a satellite (Nimbus
III) for one month and an additional animal was tracked by satellite
during its early migration.

An environmental program was developed, including recruitment
and assignment of research ecologists, environmentalists, conserva-
tionists, and biologists as Peace Corps volunteers. Participants with
Masters or Doctors degrees or candidates for the degrees carry out
research programs in the host countries which request them. To date
120 volunteers have applied; fifteen countries have requested various
types of research specialists, and volunteers have been sent or are
preparing for their assignments.

PROGRAM OFFICE OF OCEANOGRAPHY AND LIMNOLOGY

Acquisition of the acrylic and aluminum research submersible,
Johnson-Sea-Link, has provided a new Smithsonian capability for
research in the marine environment. Conceived, engineered, and
constructed in part by Edwin A. Link, and donated to the Smith-
sonian, the vehicle incorporated a 66-inch diameter acrylic sphere,
developed by the Navy, with an 8-foot cylindrical aluminum diver
ompartment, similar to the diver lockout system of Deep Diver.
The pilot and an observer in the forward compartment will have a
‘ull opportunity to place the vehicle into close proximity with the
Marine situation to be examined. Three divers are pressurized for
excursions from the aluminum chamber, especially to collect geo-
ogical and biological specimens and data.

In support of the submersible, the Smithsonian, in cooperation
with Mr. Link, and the Harbor Branch Foundation, has acquired
ind is developing a marine facility near Fort Pierce, Florida. Consist-
ng of about 250 acres of land on the Indian River Inland Water-
vay, the improvements include two warehouse buildings for main-
enance of the submarine and for associated underwater activities.
\ laboratory building is under construction to house scientific in-

441-283 O- 71-5
60 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 197] |

After the commissioning on 29 January 1971, submersible pilot John Fike and”
Florida Lieutenant Governor Thomas Adams, within the acrylic bubble, prepare
for the launching of Johnson-Sea-Link from Mr. Edwin A. Link’s vessel, Sea
Diver.

vestigations especially related to the field programs. A former Coast
Guard Cutter, now called R/V Johnson, has been acquired and is,
being fully rebuilt at the facility for oceanographic work and as a
submarine tender.

In connection with the commissioning ceremonies for Johnson-
Sea-Link, which were held on 29 January, Mr. Ripley awarded a
newly established Smithsonian Institution medal to Mr. Link and to
Mr. Seward Johnson, who had not only provided substantial support
to the project but also gave an endowment for its operation.

During the year, the Smithsonian Oceanographic Sorting Center
(sosc) sent 219,708 specimens of algae, invertebrates, vertebrates,
oceanic rocks, and photographs of the ocean bottom to 368 scientists
for studies of the kinds, distributions, and populations of organisms
of the world ocean. At the request of national and international
organizations, sosc sent its supervisors to the Antarctic, the Pacific)
coast of Colombia, Staten Island, the Galapagos Islands, Panama,
and many other localities to make collections or to obtain records of}
collections of scientific interest.

The Smithsonian research vessel R/V Phykos spent the year in)

SCIENCE 61

Yugoslavia undergoing conversion into a modern oceanographic
vessel. She will begin operations early next fiscal year as the
principal biological collections vessel for the Cooperative Investiga-
tions of the Mediterranean.

THE CHESAPEAKE BAY CENTER FOR
ENVIRONMENTAL STUDIES

A plan for a complete ecosystem study of the Rhode River Water-
shed was developed as the primary research program of the Center,
in cooperation with the Johns Hopkins University, The University
of Maryland, and the U. S. Geological Survey. The plan integrates
the Center’s scientific research program with data on land-use history,
ecosystem structure and function, and socioeconomic trends and at-
titudes in such a way that predictions can be made of the possible
effects of proposed changes in land use in the watershed, as they
occur with increased population density and diversification of
human activities. The information gathered will be used in manag-
ing the land and water resources of the estuary and its watershed,
and should be applicable as a methodology for the study of other por-
tions of the Chesapeake Bay. The study is expected to be a part of a
major study of the total bay in cooperation with many other
agencies.

Substantial data has been gathered to aid management decisions
regarding planning and zoning in Anne Arundel County, Maryland,
and in the management of the Chesapeake Bay as a natural resource.
Scientific information, collected by the Center, was instrumental
in planning for the construction of tertiary sewage-treatment facili-
ties for a housing project in the watershed, and for the planning of
erosion control during construction of a powerline right-of-way.
These actions represent valuable precedents in the application of
research-produced information for purposes of environmental man-
agement by industry and public agencies.

The facilities of the Center were substantially expanded during
the year with the addition of 507 acres of land, of leases, offices and
of a small research vessel.

Educational activities were accelerated with the offering of a
course in estuarine ecology by the Biology Department of The
Johns Hopkins University. Two postdoctoral fellows were supported
at the Center by the Smithsonian Research Foundation. Six univer-
sities in the Baltimore-Washington area utilized the Center for field

work and the Center continued to provide instruction for children at
|
62 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1971

the Human Resources Development Center of the Community
Action Agency in Anne Arundel County.

CENTER FOR SHORT-LIVED PHENOMENA

The Center for Short-Lived Phenomena expanded its reporting
network which now includes over 3000 scientists, scientific institu-
tions, and field stations located in 148 countries on every continent
and ocean of the world.

The Center continues to communicate data and information on
significant changes in biological and ecological systems, including
rare or unusual animal migrations, population explosions, and major
mortalities of flora and fauna, as well as volcanic eruptions, the birth
of new islands, major fireball events and meteorite falls, and en-
vironmental pollution events such as major oil spills, and pesticide
and herbicide contaminations.

During 1970, the Center reported 113 short-lived events that oc-
curred in 48 countries. Scientific teams investigated at least 84 of the
events. Forty-nine earth science events were described, as well as
47 biological and 15 astrophysical events.

Specimens of all six meteorites were recovered promptly and sent
to laboratories for radioisotope analysis. Delay between the time of
the fall of the objects and the time they arrived in measuring labo-
ratories ranged from a few days to a few weeks. In addition, fireball
ablation products were sampled in the atmosphere by high altitude
air collection aircraft shortly after two major fireball events.

The Center also reported other unusual geological events, includ-
ing submarine volcanic activity in the Tonga Islands, major land-
slides in Hungary and Nigeria, the Pozzoulli uplift near Naples in
Italy, the Wolenchiti fracturing in Ethiopia, major floods and storm
surges in Ecuador and Rumania, the drainage of a glacial lake in
Alaska, a major typhoon in the Philippines and a series of major
tidal waves in East Pakistan, as well as the discovery of the Guajaki
tribe of Paraguay.

A science teacher event-notification program was inaugurated to
provide science teachers with up-to-date information on fast breaking
natural events that would be of interest in their classrooms. Hun-
dreds of science teachers use the Center’s daily event cards as teach-
ing tools to show the dynamic nature of the earth. The Center has
also been involved with a number of international programs con-
cerned with global environmental monitoring, such as the Inter-
national Biological Program, uNEsco’s “Man and the Biosphere”
SCIENCE 63

program, and the National Academy of Sciences Environmental
Monitoring Program.

Center for the Study of Man

During the past year the Center for the Study of Man has con-
tinued to provide leadership for anthropologists and other scientists,
who are seeking to bring their special skills and knowledge to the
solution of major world problems. From 14-19 May 1971, Inter-
national Advisory Board members of the Center met with members
of two “task forces” on human fertility and environmental degrada-
tion. Members of the Task Force on Human Fertility, representing
24 institutions, prepared and discussed papers defining ways in
which anthropologists could contribute to an understanding of the
population problem. The result of their efforts is a forthcoming
handbook containing guidelines for population research, including
suggestions for analyzing and recycling field notes.

The Task Force on the Environment, representing 15 institutions,

mapped out a procedure for concentrating anthropological research
on environmental problems. Present knowledge in this field was
summarized and plans for future research were sketched. A con-
ference will take place in October to further consolidate the efforts
of this task force.
At the urging of the International Advisory Board a third task
force on education will be assembled during the coming year. This
task force will conduct basic research on the problem of cultural
transmission from generation to generation in the context of rapid
culture change.

The Center’s American Indian Program has continued to serve
Indians and the American public by distributing scholarly materials
to them. A research program on Indian economic development is
now also underway. All volume editors for the 18-volume Handbook
of North American Indians have now been selected. The content
for each volume is determined and contributors are now in the
process of researching and writing.
~ Results of the Center's Urgent Anthropology Program continue
to be received, such as Frank Lobo’s work with four of the last
surviving Ahashamen Indians of San Juan Capistrano who still
possess some knowledge of the Ahashamen language. Throughout
the past year a total of 15 grants were made to carry out urgent
anthropological research in 12 different countries.

64 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1971

From 29 October to 1 November 1970, the Center brought
together a working group of 20 anthropologists and film-makers.
This three-day session developed guidelines for evaluating proposals
involving anthropological film-making; it examined long range re-
quirements for educational films in anthropology; and it planned the
development of a National Anthropological Film Archive for re-
search in anthropological film records and for the development of
new educational films in anthropology.

Science Information Exchange

The Exchange completed seven years under the contractual au-
thority of the National Science Foundation. Beginning in FY 1972
the total responsibility for support and operation of the Exchange
will be centered under the authority of the Smithsonian Institution.
During the year the Science Information Exchange (sIE) was in-
corporated under the laws of the District of Columbia.

Demand for sie services increased substantially, especially in
catalog and thesaurus development. Several new output products
were designed to make st information more readily available to
scientists and research administrators. A complete microfilm record |
of ongoing biomedical research accompanied by a printed index was
introduced to be printed and distributed by a commercial contractor.
Pre-run searches on timely topics were announced in appropriate
journals and newsletters, with very good results and expanded de-
mands for this new information product.

Particularly noteworthy has been the increasing interest in the
Exchange’s data bank by overseas organizations. Negotiations have
been initiated for sale of tape records in several foreign countries.
It is anticipated that the international information exchange will
accelerate.

All records, in full text, are now in computer storage and can be
selected and printed on demand. Information input and output is
via video terminals that can be readily adapted to on-line remote
interrogation whenever demand develops.

An intensified program of articles about siz and announcements |
by mail have substantially increased awareness and usage of SIE
services throughout the scientific and lay communities.

HISTORY AND ART

ay SHOWN BY THE INDIVIDUAL REPORTS that follow, the past year was

one of satisfying accomplishments by the history and art bureaus
of the Institution. Some milestones, such as the completion of the
first volume of the Joseph Henry Papers and the preparation of the
first complete guide to the archives of the Smithsonian, were reached
during the year. Additions to the national collections of historical,
artistic, and archival material continued at an impressive rate.
Exhibitions both major and minor in the Museum of History and
Technology, the National Collection of Fine Arts, and the National
Portrait Gallery were well received by critics and the public alike.
The educational and scholarly activities that form so important a
part of the responsibilities of our museums and other bureaus re-
ceived continuing emphasis and led to a number of distinguished
publications.

The past year was also notable in terms of new physical facilities.
Early in the year the Cooper Hewitt Museum accomplished its move
from the Cooper Union to the Carnegie and Miller Houses with
almost miraculous economy and efficiency. Construction continued
on the Hirshhorn Museum, which by year’s end had emerged above
ground level; the opening of the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture
Garden is planned for 1973. Basic work on the Renwick Gallery was
completed and an opening is planned for the winter of 1971, follow.
ing the final restoration and decoration of the interior and the
installation of exhibits.

A special word should be said about the Smithsonian’s plans for
the Bicentennial of the American Revolution, which involve many
parts of the Institution in addition to its history and art bureaus.
The Bicentennial offers the Smithsonian a unique opportunity and
an urgent duty. We must use our vast resources, and enlist the re-
sources of others, to help rediscover and illuminate our national
achievements. The theme of the Smithsonian’s Bicentennial celebra-
tion is the American experience; its purpose will be, in President
Nixon’s words, ‘‘a new understanding of our heritage.”

For this effort, the Smithsonian Institution is providentially well
prepared. It is a remarkably comprehensive group of enterprises

65

66 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1971

surveying every aspect of man’s life and work—his social, political,
and military institutions; his fine arts, his applied arts, his per-
forming arts; his use of natural resources; and his adventures of
exploration on this planet and into outer space. The Smithsonian
Institution has a long and rich tradition of free interchange of ideas.
with the world of learning. It has been a center for the study of
resources, natural and human, of the whole continent. The
Smithsonian, as the repository for myriad objects sacred to our
history and illustrative of the American experience since the be-
ginning, is preeminent among the museums of the world and second
to none in the number of its visitors. All of this gives us a special)
responsibility of which we are deeply mindful. |

During the past year, preliminary work was begun on a number of
special Bicentennial activities. These included special exhibitions:
in the Museum of History and Technology, the Museum of Natural:
History, the Arts and Industries Building, and the National Air and |
Space Museum. Planning continued for the development of Bicen-
tennial Park on the banks of the Potomac, and authorizing legisla-'
tion to this end was submitted by the Regents on the advice of the
National Armed Forces Museum Advisory Board. The Institution’s
art bureaus are collaborating in the preparation of an unprecedented!
Bicentennial Survey of American Art, which will include an in-
ventory of American paintings before 1914, a catalog of revolutionary
era portraits, and a bibliography of American art. With continuing;
support from the Congress and the American Revolution Bicenten-
nial Commission, the Smithsonian’s role in the celebration of the
200th birthday of our nation will receive increasing emphasis in the
years between now and 1976.

The National Museum of History and Technology

In the fiscal year 1971 a major endeavor of the professional staff
of The National Museum of History and Technology was the
development of plans for a variety of ambitious exhibitions and
special projects to commemorate the forthcoming American Revolu-
tion Bicentennial. These will be concerned not only with the per-
sonalities and events of the era of the Revolutionary War, but will
provide a broader understanding of American achievement over the
succeeding two centuries. A preliminary step to planning was the
successful completion of an inventory of the national collections to
identify and select available and appropriate materials for the proj-
ects in progress.
HISTORY AND ART 67

An opportunity to undertake a major revision of the exhibition
halls in the central segment of-the third floor made possible a
reorganization of subject content under the conceptual theme of
communication. Existing exhibits are being modified and supple-
mented, as well as relocated, and a major portion of the Museum’s
exhibit effort in the forthcoming year will be directed to the com-
pletion of this project.

Two major events which highlighted the Museum's activities
during the year were special exhibits developed in the Department
of Cultural History. Both were memorable because of the novelty
of their subject matter and their reminiscent appeal.

“Do It The Hard Way: Rube Goldberg and Modern Times,”
which opened in November, was dedicated to the famous cartoonist
whose name has become part of the language. The exhibit featured
a montage of Goldberg’s original drawings and published cartoons,
his sculpture, realizations of some of the fantastic comic-page in-
ventions for which he was widely known, and other memorabilia
illustrating the cartoonist’s many-faceted social commentaries and
observations on the absurdities of human nature. A film supplemen-

REPORT,
OVER BACT

Rube Goldberg’s elaborate picture-taking contraption with which visitors were
photographed.
68 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1971

ting the tangible elements of the exhibit captured the essence of
Goldberg’s personality and achievements. Produced by Karen Love-
land and Benjamin W. Lawless of the Office of Exhibits, the film won
a CINE Golden Eagle Award and has been submitted to three in-
ternational film festivals. The attractive catalog describing the
exhibit, produced by Peter C. Marzio and Anne C. Golovin, received
a Certificate of Award from the Printing Institute of America in the
one and two color brochure and catalog category. Among the most
popular aspects of the exhibit were a Goldberg signature-machine
which visitors could operate, and an elaborate picture-taking con-
traption by which visitors were photographed.

“Music Machines—American Style,” which opened in April, is an
ongoing special exhibit depicting the development of mechanical
and electronic devices and machines by means of which popular
music was recorded, reproduced, and transmitted in America. A
theater within the exhibition presents a program of clips of famous
musical productions of the 1930’s and of the period 1940-1960.

The past year also witnessed the opening of two permanent

By the 1890s talking machines shown in “Music Machines—American Style”
were entertaining thousands of Americans at home, penny arcades, and phono-
graph parlors.
HISTORY AND ART 69

exhibition halls and the creation of several popular special exhibits,
representing a wide range of curatorial interests. The first segment
of the new Hall of Electricity which was opened in December focuses
on the mystery and fascination of electrical science through the mid-
nineteenth century. Featured are a working reproduction of an
electric motor designed by Benjamin Franklin, and a number of
visitor-operated displays. Dominating the entrance is a tableau

The entrance to the Hall of Electricity is dominated by this operating recon-
struction of a typical 18th-century parlor demonstration: The Electric Kiss.
70 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1971

demonstrating the “electric kiss’—a preoccupation of the 18th cen-
tury. The first in a series of changing exhibits entitled ‘“Contem-
porary Counterparts of Early American Craftsmen” was added to
the popular Hall of Everyday Life in the American Past. A major
segment added to the Hall of Ceramics and Glass was a unique
collection of yellow-glazed English earthenware of the 1785-1835
period donated by Eleanor and Jack Leon.

Three hundred years of South Carolina paper currencies was the
subject of an exhibit in the Hall of Numismatics. A joint venture
was undertaken with the philatelic services of five Scandinavian
countries in the production of an exhibit on the “Stamps and Posts
of Scandinavia.”’ A splendid collection of ceramic and silver tureens
from the Campbell Museum collection was featured in a special
exhibit which opened in June.

The historical significance of American holidays is the theme of
an ongoing series of colorful popular exhibits at the Mall entrance
to the Museum. These have included among others, an exhibit about
Fourth of July celebrations, which featured music, slides, and
original objects relating to the Declaration of Independence, and a
dual exhibit commemorating the birthdays of George Washington
and Abraham Lincoln, again showing many original objects as-
sociated with these patriots.

An innovation is a series of departmental exhibit cases changed
monthly by the curatorial staff in which recent additions to the
national collections are displayed and acknowledged.

Numerous small individual exhibits reflected a wide range of
interest in various parts of the Museum, ranging from the photo-
graphic work of Stephen Whealton and of Janine Niepce to the
national concern for accurate measurement and protection of the
country’s water supply. Yet others ranged from the 100th anniver-
sary of the civil engineer, Benjamin Wright, to “Poetry of the
Body,” a series of anatomical drawings by Paul Peck.

The Division of Musical Instruments continued to supplement
their displays of instruments with a program of three concerts
produced in cooperation with the Smithsonian Associates. The
Energy Conversion Exhibit was reassembled into a colorful traveling
version, representing the first technical traveling exhibit from this
Museum, and it has been enthusiastically received.

The presentation of the Secretary's Gold Medal to Howard I.
Chapelle, Senior Historian of the Department of Science and Tech-
nology on 30 November marked the retirement of one of America’s
HISTORY AND ART

Figure of Benjamin Franklin, circa 1780-1790 by Ralph Wood, Jr. This fine
figure is important not only because of its American association, but also because
it is an outstanding example of 18th-century English ceramic art and technology.

72 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 197}

“THES Ende nated Bill of Trem ty +o
Shillings due from the Mallachulets o

| Golony to the. Rileflor thal! be imvaluers :

| eqtal to money &elhallbe. accordinglys ,
accepte 1 by the Trealturer and Recewers
{iboxdiaatetohiminall Publick p ayms ;

ard ‘or anu; Stock at any tume, im.the_to

‘ 7
Treaty. B off om. m New-E ngl ama
F. eoTuary the third, x 60 9 ae 7 Orde re af

2 t L
the. Gre nRecae ee

eS ut henson

Massachusetts Bay Colony note dated 3 February 1690, acquired for the
numismatics collections.

most distinguished marine historians. Mr. Chapelle will, however,
continue to work in the Museum as Historian Emeritus.

John T. Schlebecker, Jr., curator of the Division of Agriculture
and Mining, received the American Library Association’s Oberley
prize for his bibliography on the history of agriculture. He also
completed a catalog of agricultural implements in the Museum’s
collections.
HISTORY AND ART 73

Envelope carried by the famed Pony Express in June 1861. The cover bears a
patriotic emblem of a type popular during the Civil War period, a two-dollar
Wells Fargo stamp, and an embossed ten-cent U.S. stamp.

Two Smithsonian Research Foundation grants were given, for
the purpose of examining baroque organs in Mexico, and another
to study family records of a 19th century mid-western German im-
migrant cabinetmaker.

During the summer of 1970 an institute for college teachers on the
history of technology was conducted. The annual meeting of the
National Society for Historical Archeology, locally sponsored by the
Department of Cultural History, was held in Washington with
participation by several members of the Museum staff.

Staff interest and involvement in the Museum’s Bicentennial
planning greatly influenced the maintenance and expansion of the
national collections, to which 540,939 objects were added within the
past year. Significant additions relating to the Revolutionary War
period included an appliqued quilt-top made of rare examples of
early American textile printing, typical of the designs of John
Hewson, Philadelphia textile printer and patriot of the American
Revolution. A Dutch loom, dated 1730, presently being restored,
will be displayed in the Hall of Textiles to demonstrate the pro-
duction of 18th-century fabrics. Other significant acquisitions in-
clude a Revolutionary War period sweetmeat dish manufactured by
America’s premier porcelain manufacturer, Bonnin and Morris of
Philadelphia, and a figure of Benjamin Franklin modeled between
74 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1971

1780 and 1790 by Ralph Wood, Jr. An important collection of 18th
century clothing was acquired by the Division of Costume.

An important acquisition was a Massachusetts Bay Colony note
dated 3 February 1690. This note is of extraordinary importance
since it typifies an American venture in publicly-authorized paper
money which predates the issuance of paper currencies by the Bank
of England in 1694 and the Bank of Scotland in 1696 highlighting
the difference between a publicly authorized issue and an issue by
privately owned and operated banks. America was to become the
proving ground for paper economics.

The Division of Political History received an unusually important —
donation of a group of sixty-five pieces of china owned by President
Millard Fillmore. An interesting group of documents, photographs,
and campaign memorabilia was the gift of the League of Women
Voters.

A noteworthy acquisition by the Division of Postal History was an
envelope carried by the storied Pony Express in the period 1860—
1861, as well as an airmail stamp of Newfoundland, issued in 1919
for the first nonstop transatlantic flight.

Archives of American Art

The past year, the first spent by the Archives of American Art as
a bureau of the Smithsonian Institution, was a period of establishing —
residence, organizing a Washington office staff, and working out new
procedures in the handling of both administrative and archival
details. By July 1971 it had become an integral part of the Smith-
sonian’s research facilities and its resources were being intensively
used by staff and fellows of the National Collection of Fine Arts,
the National Portrait Gallery, and the National Gallery of Art, by
faculty and graduate students at local universities, and by scholars
from such places as New York, Chicago, San Francisco, New Orleans,
Seattle, London, and Stockholm.

The year was also marked by the establishment of a branch office
in Boston, an addition to other regional offices in New York and
Detroit where researchers regularly consult Archives resources
duplicated on microfilm. Branch offices are also the chief means of
acquiring collections of artists’ and dealers’ personal and business
papers. The opening of the Boston office thus represents an im-
portant new source of archival records which, after being organized
and filmed at the Washington center, are offered to scholars on a
national basis.

Among significant collections of papers received by the Archives

HISTORY AND ART 75

during the year are those of John Taylor Arms, Arthur G. Dove, Guy
Pene Du Bois, G. P. A. Healy, J. Alden Weir, and of two major New
York dealers, the Kootz Gallery and the Howard Wise Gallery.

The Archives also continued its oral history project, a large por-
tion of it under a grant from the New York State Council on the
Arts. Extended tape recorded interviews, later transcribed, were
conducted with ten art administrators and ten printmakers, photog-
raphers, and craftsmen, all from the New York area. Other indi-
viduals participating in this project were Leo Castelli, Ralph Colin,
Huntington Hartford, August Heckscher, James Thrall Soby, and
E. M. M. Warburg.

Freer Gallery of Art

Research, curatorial, and exhibition activities of the Freer Gallery
of Art continued this year as in the past. We were all saddened by
the death of Mrs. Agnes E. Meyer who was both a good friend and
patron of the Gallery. Mrs. Meyer was born in New York City in
1887. During most of her lifetime she had a keen interest in Far
Eastern art and published Chinese Painting as Reflected in the
Thought and Art of Li-Lung-Mien in 1923. Mrs. Meyer first met Mr.
Freer in January, 1913, and from that moment on their lives were
closely allied in the search and study of Far Eastern art. Following
Mr. Freer’s death in 1919, Mrs. Meyer continued to serve as an ad-
visor and was mentioned in Mr. Freer’s will as one of the five people
who were permitted to make gifts of objects to the collection. Mrs.
Meyer was the last living person officially associated with the Gallery
who also knew Mr. Freer. During her lifetime and as part of her
bequest, Mrs. Meyer greatly enriched the collection of the Freer
Gallery of Art.

In the course of the year a committee known as the Visiting Com-
mittee of the Freer Gallery of Art was established. It will be chaired
by The Honorable Hugh Scott, Senator from Pennsylvania, and the
other members are as follows: Laurence Sickman, Director, William
Rockhill Nelson Gallery of Art; Mrs. Jackson Burke, collector;
Chang Kwang-chih, Professor, Department of Anthropology, Yale
University; Miss Edith Ehrman, Manager, Foreign Area Materials
Center, State Education Department, University of the State of
New York; Marvin Eisenberg, Professor, History of Art, University
of Michigan; Mrs. Katharine Graham, Publisher, The Washington
Post; John Rosenfield, Professor of Oriental Art, Harvard Univer-
sity. They will meet regularly and serve in an advisory capacity.

441-283 O-71-6
76 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1971

A major achievement was the publication of Museums of the
World, The Freer Gallery of Art, Part I; China, and Part II: Japan,
printed in Japanese in collaboration with Kodansha, Tokyo. The
English edition of Part I has also been released and Part II will
follow in the coming year.

National Collection of Fine Arts

The Director reported to a Congressional Committee in July that
the mission of the National Collection of Fine Arts (NCFA) is to
preserve, study, and make known the art of the nation. ‘To preserve
art, however, is not to maintain a static situation; a museum is too
often misunderstood as a mausoleum, the antithesis of creative
activity. Although the physical objects must indeed be protected
with care, they cease to be of value (in fact, to be works of art) if
the spirit that marked their creation does not persist. Creativity is an
action and can be apprehended only by an active mind, a mind set
free to explore, discover, savor, and judge. It is this creative spirit,
with its many shades and directions weaving through our changing
culture over the past three hundred years, that the museum in its
varied activities wishes to keep alive, to make accessible to the gen-
eral public, the children and youth in the schools, and the specialized
scholar.

The creative spirit of America in the 19th century can be seen
in new accessions such as those of Rembrandt Peale, Philip Tilyard,
and William Henry Rinehart, and in the 20th century in such recent
acquisitions as Helen Frankenthaler’s acrylic, Blessing of the Fleet,
and new print acquisitions of Werner Drewes, George Rickey,
Robert Rauschenberg, Carol Summers, and others, all shown in new
gallery arrangements. In the course of the year, 583 works were
acquired.

‘Two creative Americans who lived abroad at a time when they
were little appreciated at home were restored to public attention
through comprehensive exhibitions: “H. Lyman Sayen (1875-1918),”
and “Romaine Brooks (1874—1970).” The first director of the NcFa,
William Henry Holmes, was honored by an exhibition of his water-
colors in the new print and drawing gallery. Among other exhibi-
tions were “Jasper Cropsey,” “John Marin,” “Small Sculpture and
Drawings of Paul Manship,” ‘Prints from the Venice Bienale
Workshop,” arranged by the International Art Program, and “West
Coast Print Makers,” an exhibition circulated by the Smithsonian
Institution Traveling Exhibition Service.
HISTORY AND ART 77

School children recreating Alexander Liberman’s sculpture, Equipoise (in back-

ground) during an “improvisational tour” in the National Collection of Fine
Arts.

A formal program for research scholars was begun under the
leadership of a coordinator of research, and seven scholars are now
studying, lecturing, and publishing at NCFA in the field of American
art history. “Walking Seminars,” a program using the museum to
supplement college art departments in the Washington area, was
begun in the spring, and exhibitions of “High School Graphics I”
and “Early Work—Art by Students in D.C. Grade Schools’ were
78 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1971

organized and exhibited at the Ncra. Any notion that the museum
is regarded as a mausoleum was wiped out forever on 8 May when
an awesome 7,600 children and parents actively participated in the
“fun-filled day of art experiences” which was Children’s Day at the
National Collection of Fine Arts.

As the year ended, the 27 June opening of the major summer
exhibition, “Hidden Aspects of the National Collection of Fine
Arts,” attracted 2,300 visitors. This exhibition of more than 200
objects was intended to acquaint the public with the surprising
range of the NcFraA collections. It included Renaissance jewelry,
ancient Chinese glass, European paintings of the 17th through 19th
centuries, and the American folk art masterpiece by James Hampton,
“Throne of the Third Heaven of the Nation’s Millennium General
Assembly.”

During this past fiscal year the Smithsonian Institution Traveling
Exhibition Services (siTEs) has been re-designated an office of the
National Collection of Fine Arts and has moved its offices from the
Mall to the Studio House of Alice Pike Barney which was given to
the Smithsonian by her daughters.

SITEs circulated 116 exhibitions to museums and educational in-
stitutions throughout the United States and Canada. Smithsonian
units are contributing more than ever before to the organization of
exhibitions for circulation by sires. “Indian Images,” “The Genteel
Female,” “Creative Printmaking in Pakistan,” “Energy Conversion,”
“James Weldon Johnson,” and “Paintings by Edwin Scott” are new
SITES exhibitions which have been originated by Smithsonian de-
partments. These exhibitions have had their initial showings at the
Smithsonian before beginning their tours. “U. S. World War I
Posters” was prepared from Smithsonian collections especially for a
SITES tour. The addition of these exhibitions to those already in
circulation brings the total of Smithsonian exhibitions in sITEs’
program to 14.

SITEs has acquired for travel 28 new exhibitions and has returned
23 exhibitions to their lenders. The tours of the returned exhibitions
have ranged from 18 months to 6 years. Thirty-five of siTEs’ exhibi-
tions are of foreign origin; five of these are new exhibitions.

National Portrait Gallery

During the past year the Gallery mounted two major exhibitions,
as well as two smaller undertakings designed primarily for our
secondary school audience, and acquired fifty portraits.
HISTORY AND ART 79

“The Life Portraits of John Quincy Adams” was the exhibition
held at the Gallery in the fall. It coincided with the publication of a
book on the same subject by Andrew Oliver, a member of the Na-
tional Portrait Gallery Commission, published by the Belknap Press
of Harvard University. On the afternoon of the opening, President
and Mrs. Nixon gave a party at the White House for about 40 mem-
bers of the Adams family as well as members of the Gallery’s staff.
A five-minute filmed review of the exhibition was shown on the
NBC nightly news by John Chancellor. The portraits of Henry Ben-
bridge, a comparatively little known painter of the period of the
American Revolution whose major activity was in Charleston, South
Carolina, were shown in the Spring. Both exhibitions were ac-
companied by full scale publications; the former, designed by Miss
Crimilda Pontes of the Smithsonian Institution Press, was chosen as
one of the twenty-two most handsomely produced university publica-
tions of the year by the Association of American University Presses.

The two secondary school oriented exhibitions were devoted to
the pioneering conservationist John Muir and the composer and
civil rights leader James Weldon Johnson. Brochures were produced
for both of these exhibitions.

The most notable acquisitions of the year were two presidential

James Monroe by John Vanderlyn
(NPG. 70.59).
80 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1971

portraits. The first of these is Gilbert Stuart’s painting of John
Adams, begun during Adams’ presidency in 1798, but not completed
until about 1815 or later by the artist’s daughter Jane Stuart. The
second is an 1816 portrait of James Monroe by John Vanderlyn.
Both were acquired from direct descendants of the subjects.

Several portraits were transferred from The National Museum of
History and Technology. Perhaps the most important of these is a
self-portrait of Eastman Johnson, one of the greatest American
painters of the 19th century. A Thomas Hicks portrait of Edwin
Booth as Iago was loaned by the Cooper-Hewitt Museum of Decora-
tive Arts and Design.

Joseph H. Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden

During fiscal year 1971, thirty percent of the construction of the
Joseph H. Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden was completed
and preparations continued for the opening in 1973. A change in
the design of the sculpture garden has been agreed upon which will
place it parallel to the building rather than traversing the Mall.

The director and his staff examined several thousand paintings
and selected about 600 for possible inclusion in the opening exhibi-
tion, scheduled for May 1973. Present plans call for approximately
500 paintings and 500 sculptures to be included. Initial selection of
sculpture will begin shortly. These preliminary selections will be
researched, processed, and pertinent background data compiled on
each work of art.

Preparation was begun of the opening exhibition catalog, with
decisions being made as to format, size, and selection of photo-
graphs. The task is a formidable one because of the large number
of works of art to be included in the opening show.

Approximately 70 percent of the collection has been inventoried
and photographed. The documentation of each work of art provides
detailed data for location, identification, and condition. Methods
are being developed to permit electronic retrieval of photographs
and data.

Although the present interim period is one in which it is diff-
cult for the staff to provide information and loans, more than 225
requests for research information and photographs were answered.
Some 100 scholars, artists, and officials visited the museum office and
warehouse in New York. Seventy-three paintings and sculptures
were loaned to 45 museums, galleries, and institutions. Approxi-
mately 1,200 persons attended 15 benefit tours for educational,
HISTORY AND ART 8]

Head of a Queen. Bronze, 1812 inches
high. Benin, Nigeria.

cultural, and philanthropic organizations at the Hirshhorn Sculp-
ture Garden in Connecticut.

Cooper-Hewitt Museum of Decorative
Arts and Design

Many months were spent preparing for Cooper-Hewitt’s move to
the Carnegie and Miller houses on upper Fifth Avenue. The study
collections were installed in Miller House and are open to the public
by appointment. The staff is engaged in planning for the Museum’s
reopening following the renovation of the Carnegie mansion. A
grant of $100,000 from the New York State Council on the Arts has
enabled the Museum to launch studies and conferences leading to a
clear definition of direction.
82 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1971

In order to continue maximum display and interest in the col-
lections, extended loans were made to the Metropolitan Museum,
National Collection of Fine Arts, Brooklyn Museum, Philadelphia
Museum, Hudson River Museum, University of Michigan, and the
Fogg Art Museum at Harvard University.

Four special exhibitions were sent to the following: Wellesley
College, “Master Drawings: The Kingdom of the Two Sicilies”;
Ithaca College, “Drawn from Nature/Drawn from Life’; New York
Cultural Center, “Selections from the Cooper-Hewitt Museum”;
American Federation of Arts, a circulating exhibition, ‘Master
Printmakers from the Cooper-Hewitt Museum.”

Objects from the collection were also included in major exhibi-
tions at museums in this country and abroad: National Gallery of
Art, Metropolitan Museum, Morgan Library, High Museum, Mu-
seum of American Folk Art, Finch College, Cranbrook Academy,
Victoria & Albert Museum, Brighton Pavilion, Montreal Museum
of Fine Arts, and the Musée des Arts Décoratifs in Paris.

The Museum has acquired 1,522 works of art through the kind-
ness of its friends. The most outstanding of these are 104 costume
and stage designs, gifts of the designers, which include Charles Le
Maire, Ben Edwards, Miles White, Robert O’Hearn, and Freddy
Wittop; 59 prints by Luigi Rossini; 49 Daumier lithographs; 27
embroidered samplers from the Coe collection; a Persian 17th-
century fragment of textile; a 1930s silk screen panel by Ruth
Reeves; 560 embroideries and laces from the collection of Marian
Hague; an English mahogany breakfront of the mid-18th century; a
Louis XVI Sécretaire a abattant; a 19th-century cabinet by L. Sou-
brier & Cie.; a combination birdcage-fishbowl of the early 19th
century; a pair of Belter armchairs; 14 pieces of Greek ceramics
ranging from 14th century B. c. to 4th century B. c.

One hundred seventy-six volumes were added to the library. The
most noteworthy gifts were 21 cartons of auction catalogs and
decorative arts books from the Queens College Library and 38 books
on 19th century world fairs from the Cooper Union Library. The
Museum received a $92,000 grant from the Samuel H. Kress Founda-
tion for a Textile Conservation Laboratory.

The American Institute of Interior Designers has elected Mrs. Lisa
Taylor, the director, to honorary membership. Mrs. Elaine Dee,
curator of Prints and Drawings, and Mrs. Catharine Frangiamore,
assistant curator of Decorative Arts, were awarded grants to partici-
pate in international conferences abroad.

As a new neighbor in Carnegie Hill, the Museum has sponsored
HISTORY AND ART 83

a series of tours, lectures, children’s classes, festivals, and other
events as a means of winning new friends and cultivating prospective
supporters. An initial membership group has been formed involving
neighborhood families who use the garden and assist in various
volunteer capacities.

The Museum has provided facilities for the Guggenheim Mu-
seum’s summer program for inner-city children and for activities of
the Museums Collaborative and a number of other professional
organizations.

An Outdoor Sculpture Symposium, the first of its kind in New
York, is underway on the grounds. Four master sculptors, Phillip
Pavia, Minoru Niizuma, Karl Prantl, and Paul Jenkins are de-
lighting sidewalk superintendents with their work.

Visitors have increased since the Cooper-Hewitt moved to its new
location. The staff looks forward to the formal opening of the
“national museum of design” and hopes that the Museum will be
an even larger force in the future than it has been in the past.

National Armed Forces Museum Advisory Board

Legislation in the form of S. 2153 was introduced into the 92nd
Congress to authorize establishment of a National Historical
Museum Park, to be known as Bicentennial Park, and to designate
the study center authorized under Section 2 (a) of Public Law 87-
186 as the Dwight D. Eisenhower Institute for Historical Research.

The Institute, commemorating our thirty-fourth president, who
contributed so much to the shaping of a free world, is intended to
promote study of the interaction of military thought and policy with
the overall American historical experience. During the Bicentennial
period, special emphasis will be placed on study of the American
Revolution, not only as a military contest but as a profound social
upheaval with consequences touching every aspect of human life.

Staff members and visiting scholars would participate in a broad
program of conferences and lectures held under the auspices of the
Institute, probing the revolutionary experience, not just as a matter
of battles lost or won, but from the point of view of its full impact
upon the new and the old worlds—militarily, politically, economi-
cally, culturally, and scientifically.

Bicentennial Park and the Eisenhower Institute together will
offer a rare opportunity to develop integrated collections and pro-
grams designed to contribute to a broader understanding of the
84 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1971

American past—an understanding vitally necessary in order to ad-
vance intelligently and confidently into the future.

Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars

The Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars, created
by the Congress in October 1968 to be a living memorial “expressing
the ideals and concerns of Woodrow Wilson . . . symbolizing and
strengthening the fruitful relation between the world of learning and
the world of public affairs’’ opened its doors on 19 October 1970,
with some 25 scholars from this country and abroad.

The theme of the Center’s fellowship program is designed to ac-
centuate those aspects of Wilson’s ideals and concerns for which he
is perhaps best remembered a half century after his presidency: his
search for international peace and the imaginative new govern-
mental approaches he used to meet pressing issues of his day. In the
opening period the Board of Trustees is particularly encouraging
substantial studies on (1) the development of international under-
standing, law and cooperation in ocean space; (2) man’s relations
and response to his deteriorating environment, with special attention
to the new forms of international cooperation needed to address
effectively those environmental problems that transcend boundaries;
and (3) various approaches to the problems of international peace-
keeping and post-Vietnam United States foreign policy.

On 18 February 1971, the Center was officially dedicated by Presi-
dent Richard M. Nixon.

Throughout the first 8 months of its life, the Center has sponsored
a number of seminars, symposia, and public discussions in fulfill-
ment of its Congressional mandate to be a “bridge’’ between the
world of learning and the world of public affairs.

Joseph Henry Papers

Volume I of the Joseph Henry Papers was completed, and the text
prepared for transmission to the Smithsonian Press, during this
fiscal year. The approximately 250 items start with Henry’s baptismal
record and end with his resignations from offices in Albany, New
York, in preparation for his departure to Princeton in 1832. In addi-
tion to many letters of great biographic importance, the volume will
contain three unpublished lectures, notes of scientific work, and
HISTORY AND ART 85

documents of both the Albany Institute and the Albany Academy.
Approximately one half of the volume will consist of the editor’s
commentary and annotations. Perhaps the most significant theme
in the volume is Henry’s view of science and its relations to society.
As a case study in provincial culture, the volume has much fresh
evidence on American culture and society as it is by no means limited
to the detailing of Henry’s scientific work.

Office of American Studies

The Office of American Studies conducts a formal graduate pro-
gram in material culture of the United States which is directed to
the original Smithsonian purpose: “the increase and diffusion of
knowledge among men.” Graduate students from George Washing-
ton University, Georgetown University, American University, the
University of Maryland, Catholic University, and the University of
Texas participated in the program, gaining academic credit toward
advanced degrees at those universities. The basic seminar in “Ma-
terial Aspects of American Civilization” this year examined the
material culture of the working class. Research seminars in “Amer-
ican Technology and Its Cultural Impact” and ‘““The Physical City:
An Approach to American Urban History” were also given, all
under the direction of Harold Skramstad.

During the spring semester, a seminar in “Historical Uses of
Vernacular Architecture’? was conducted by Cary Carson, Coordi-
nator of Research of the St. Mary’s City Commission. The Office of
American Studies is cooperating with the St. Mary’s City Commis-
sion in a long-range project to study St. Mary’s City, the 17-century
capital of Maryland, by means of historical archeology, architectural
history, and archival research. In addition to participating in formal
seminars, individual graduate students carried on reading and _re-
search projects under the direction of members of the staff of the
Office of American Studies and of the various Smithsonian museums.

Office of Academic Studies

The Office of Academic Studies, formerly the Division of Graduate
Studies of the Office of Academic Programs, is directed by the newly
established Board of Academic Studies in the conduct of the Institu-
tion’s higher education programs. The programs include fellowship
86 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 197]

and administrative support for pre- and post-doctoral Visiting Re-
search Associates engaged in independent research, for graduate and
undergraduate students in directed research and internship assign-
ments, for short-term visitors studying in the Smithsonian’s collec-
tions, and for departmental seminars.

For the academic year 1971-1972, 27 postdoctoral and 18 pre-
doctoral fellowships were awarded. For several years the Institution
has cooperated with universities in jointly funding fellowships for
graduate students pursuing course work partly at their home
university and partly at the Smithsonian. This year two such fellow-
ships have been awarded in American Civilization at Georgetown
University and one at the University of Texas. In addition, two
doctoral candidates in the History of Science and Technology are
being jointly supported with the University of Maryland and with
Harvard University, marking the first such cooperative venture with
Harvard.

Support for graduate interns, previously offered only during the
summer months, has been extended to a year-round program of one
to three month appointments for research and study under the
supervision of a member of the professional staff.

Several successful seminars, developed and conducted within de-
partments and divisions of the Institution, have been supported, in
part or in full, by the Office of Academic Studies.

Smithsonian Institution Archives

In spring 1971 the Archives completed a major reorganization of
its holdings, culminating in completion of the Preliminary Guide to
the Smithsonian Archives, now in press. The guide presents to the
scholarly community the first comprehensive statement of the hold-
ings of the Archives.

The re-ordering which was accomplished in preparation for the
guide clearly designates records according to their source; and a
numbering system, also used in the guide, permits easier location
of records in the stacks. In addition to the guide, a file for other
finding aids was set up, keyed to the guide-stack numbering system.

As the staff completed the guide for publication, plans were made
for finding aids of much greater depth, which would be machine
adaptable. Problems were discussed with National Archives staff in
charge of sPINDEX, a national computer system for manuscript col-
lections, and with the Smithsonian Information Systems Division.
HISTORY AND ART 87

Prototype collection descriptions were produced and two collections
were described under the new processing standards. Although
actual machine application lies in the future, the Smithsonian
Archives finding aids will be ready for the computer when that day
arrives.

Emphasis during this year was on internal reorganization, but
several accessions were made. Most important were early records of
Smithsonian book exchanges, records of the director of the Museum
of History and Technology, additional records of the Exhibits
Editor’s office, and fiscal records from the Treasurer’s office. ‘The
program for microfilming selected archives continued with a much
expanded activity projected for the near future.

Office of Seminars

The Office of Seminars cooperated in the planning and manage-
ment of an international symposium held 16-19 November 1970, on
“Cultural Styles and Social Identities: Interpretations of Protest and
Change.”’ The Charles F. Kettering Foundation and the Rockefeller
Brothers Fund provided financial support. The symposium reflected
the Institution’s long-standing interests in the processes of culture
change as studied both by historians and anthropologists. It also
served as a sequel to the 1969 symposium, “Man and Beast: Com-
parative Social Behavior,’ which concentrated on the biological
bases of behavior in human and other animal societies. The 1970
symposium, chaired by Professor Michio Nagai of Japan, will be
published by the Smithsonian Institution Press under the title The
Cultural Drama. The 1969 symposium volume Man and Beast was
published 18 June 1971, under the editorship of John F. Eisenberg
and Wilton S. Dillon. Planning began in 1971 for the next inter-
national symposium to be held in 1973, in cooperation with the
National Academy of Sciences, to commemorate the 500th an-
niversary of the birth of Copernicus and his impact on scientific
discovery, including space exploration in the twentieth century. The
1973 symposium will be the fifth in the Smithsonian’s international
symposia series.

With the opening of the Woodrow Wilson International Center
for Scholars in 1970, the Office of Seminars served as a link between
the work of the visiting Fellows and scientists and other scholars in
the Smithsonian, arranging a series of small discussions and semi-
nars on topics related to ecology and the environmental sciences.
88 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1971

Antonio Zarco, senior elder of the Choco Indian nation of Panama, and Michael
Collins, former astronaut and new director of the National Air and Space
Museum, at a meeting sponsored by the Office of Seminars.

One seminar, involving government, foundation, and university
participants, speculated on the environmental implications of new
highways and hydroelectric dams in the tropics and what Americans
might learn from such development schemes. Another dealt with
innovations in university curricula—both in the United States and
overseas—to accommodate increasing faculty and student interests
in problems of environmental quality. Such activities are carried out
in close cooperation with the Smithsonian’s Office of Environmental
Sciences.

Antonio Zarco, senior elder in the Choco Indian nation of
Panama, and former teacher of jungle survival techniques to U. S.
air and space personnel, was invited by the Office of Seminars to
visit the Smithsonian research and museum facilities in June 1971,
while visiting the United States as a guest of the Air Force. He held
discussions with Michael Collins, director of the Air and Space
Museum, his former pupil in Panama, and with scientists at the
National Museum of Natural History, to which he contributed the
beginnings of a collection of artifacts of Choco culture.
SPECIAL MUSEUM PROGRAMS

si SMITHSONIAN in its special museum programs during the past
year has extended its historic mission of service and concern for
the condition and objectives of museums both at home and abroad.
United States membership in the International Centre for the
Preservation and Restoration of Cultural Property (Rome Centre)
has been authorized by the Congress, due in part to the support of
the Smithsonian Institution. Similarly, the Smithsonian has con-
tinued to support the principles of the proposed uNEsco Cultural
Property Convention designed to stem the rising tide of illegal
international trade in objects of art, antiquities, and cultural ma-
terials.

An activist role of educator, conservator, and communicator is
shared increasingly by museums, and each year these common ob-
jectives bring the museums of the world closer together as custodians
of cultural values and enhancers of the quality of life. To this end
the Smithsonian has continued its assistance to the American As-
sociation of Museums and the U. S. National Committee of the
International Council of Museums, an effort which has resulted in
an increased appreciation of the opportunities, goals, and achieve-
ments of museums.

Continuing its tradition of worldwide exchange of ideas, the
Smithsonian staff has collaborated with and supported museum ad-
ministrators, technicians, and cultural specialists from Africa, Asia,
and Europe interested in establishing or expanding their national
museum programs. Particularly gratifying has been the assistance
provided museum professionals from developing countries who
have come to the Smithsonian to observe and study techniques and
methods in conservation, exhibition, and registrar functions.

Through the National Museum Act, information and advice
have been given in response to approximately 5000 requests in the
last year. Some of these, as suggested above, have been of an inter-
national character, but by far the great majority have come from
the small museums of the United States. This alone indicates the
critical need of the museum profession for concrete data, profes-
sional advice, and opportunities for training.

89
90 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1971

Office of Museum Programs

On 23 January 1971, Mr. Frank A. Taylor retired from the Smith-
sonian Institution after forty-eight years of service. Engineer, lawyer,
curator, museum administrator, and recipient of the Henry Medal,
Mr. Taylor will continue to serve the Institution as a Research
Associate, as a consultant to the Secretary for special projects, and
as the Smithsonian’s ambassador-at-large to the museum world.

The Office of Director General of Museums, with Mr. Taylor’s
retirement, now operates as the Office of Museum Programs. On 25
January 1971, Mr. Peter C. Welsh was appointed director of this
office and charged with the supervision of the Office of Exhibits
Programs, the Office of the Registrar, the Conservation-Analytical
Laboratory, and the execution of programs under the National
Museum Act.

In December of 1970 the Congress extended the National Museum
Act and authorized funding up to one million dollars for its pur-
poses which, broadly stated, encompass cooperative studies of tech-
nical problems, training of museum personnel, and development of
museum techniques. An advisory committee of museum professionals
will recommend to the Secretary procedures and policies for carry-
ing out the purposes of the act.

In the past year the Smithsonian has supported the regional mu-
seum conferences of the American Association of Museums. Pre-
liminary study for the American Association of Museums Docu-
mentation Center has been aided. The American Association for
State and Local History has received assistance for the preparation
of a guide to instruct its membership in the planning and prepara-
tion of exhibits relative to the Bicentennial of the American
Revolution. Evaluating and testing the effectiveness of exhibits and
exhibit techniques have been furthered through a cooperative pro-
gram with the Carnegie Museum and the University of Pittsburgh.
Other cooperative ventures—one with the New York State Historical
Association and the Rome Centre and another with the International
Institute for Conservation of Historic and Artistic Works—will aid
and promote studies in conservation.

The Office of Museum Programs continues to receive innumerable
requests from museums for technical assistance and advice. Since
the inception of the Museum Act in 1966 these requests have in-
creased by more than 300 percent. Such questions as how to raise
money for a museum project, how to plan and utilize exhibit space,
how to begin an exhibition program, how to organize a museum
SPECIAL MUSEUM PROGRAMS 91

education program, how to find and train museum personnel, and
how to care for and manage collections increase as the influence and
role of museums become more important in the community. The
Office of Museum Programs continues to accumulate and refine data
relating to museums and their activities. The Smithsonian Visitor,
published in May, interviews nearly 5000 visitors to the National
Museum of Natural History and the National Museum of History
and Technology and gives a statistical view of the visitor’s experi-
ences.

Training in museum exhibits techniques, conservation practices,
and museum administration continues under the National Museum
Act. Last year over 1000 persons received training in the Smith-
sonian exhibition laboratories. Trainees have come from most of the
Fifty States and many foreign countries. The Office of Museum
Programs has continued its interest in the efficacy of museums in
education and has participated actively in assessing the contribu-
tions museums can make in this field.

Office of Exhibits Programs

Despite rising costs and the resulting reductions in both materials
and manpower, the Office of Exhibits Programs not only acquitted
its traditional, diverse responsibilities but continued to expand the
scope and intensity of those responsibilities.

The 56 special and temporary exhibitions that opened in fiscal
year 1971 included the spectacular “Music Machines—American
Style” and “Do It the Hard Way: Rube Goldberg and Modern
Times” presentations in the National Museum of History and
Technology. ‘““Music Machines” is a multimedia masterwork, with
synchronized lights and sounds guiding the visitor through the
development of the machines that have revolutionized music in
America. A special film on Rube Goldberg was one of the seven
that the Exhibits Film Unit produced in conjunction with exhibi-
tions.

Segments of the Electricity Hall in the History and Technology
Building and the Physical Geology Hall in the National Museum of
Natural History were opened to the public, as work continued on
additional areas of these halls. Work was also continued in 56 other
halls of the National History and Technology, Natural History, and
the National Air and Space museums. At the same time, an exhibi-
tion on the Apollo 11, recreating the drama of man’s landing on the

441-283 O- 71-7
9? SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1971

moon, was being readied. Also underway are the proposed multi-
faceted analysis of drug usage and its impact on society; the pro-
posed Hall of Living Things, a major ecologic undertaking; plan-
ning and designs for programs in conjunction with the Bicentennial
of the American Revolution; continued assistance to the Renwick
Gallery and Anacostia Neighborhood Museum; extensive upgrading
and maintenance of exhibitions throughout the Smithsonian com-
plex; and publications ranging from a Philately and Postal History
Hall guide to leaflets supplementing exhibit labels; and training of
museum careerists from all over the world.

Conservation-Analytical Laboratory

Last year’s conservation effort has been tripled within our con-
stricting walls. Upon request we have advised eight bureaus, other
museums, and the public on safe environments for many different
kinds of objects, and methods of mounting and of cieaning them;
cleaned, repaired and chemically stabilized documents, graphics and
objects—of wood, leather, metal, pottery, hair—collected or ex-
cavated, ranging in date from prehistoric to recent and in culture
from Attic to modern American. Causes of damage have included
corrosion, unchecked decay, insects, fire, and flood.

A visiting research associate has studied and analyzed metal
artifacts for credit towards a diploma in conservation. Members of
the staff attended courses in infrared spectrophotometry and chro-
matography, are researching paper treatment for credit in a Master’s
degree, took active part in seminars on paper conservation and the
study of silver and metals generally, and lectured regularly on con-
servation to fifty interested persons and irregularly to numerous
special-interest groups, as well as maintaining active relationships
with national and international organizations concerned with arti-
fact conservation.

Analytical facilities have been applied to about 130 submitted
samples, resulting in almost 4000 semiquantitative estimations
spectrographically on metals and minerals, almost 200 quantitative
estimations on pottery by neutron-activation, and 350 by X-ray
fluorescence. Micro-analysis, X-ray diffraction, and infrared spec-
trophotometry have also served to identify corrosion products, sub-
stances present in commercial materials proposed for long-term
contact with artifacts, and painted house-plasters and fragments
from religious objects that have also been studied in cross-section.
SPECIAL MUSEUM PROGRAMS 93

Office of the Registrar

The work of the Office of the Registrar this year, although varied
in detail, was characterized by a unity of function. The tasks of
keeping records, moving mail, shipping freight, and fielding a
multitude of questions from an inquisitive public, fit nicely together.
As an example, consider the single instance of our scientists going
to Liberia on a project to study an outbreak of monkey pox in
humans, this office was typically involved in the following: (1)
obtaining work and entry permits from the foreign government for
the individuals and equipment, (2) obtaining passports and visas,
(3) preparing requests for immunizations, (4) preparing letters of
introduction, (5) recording and shipping necessary field equipment
to Monrovia, (6) handling shipping and customs requirements for
the return of the field equipment plus any specimens collected, (7)
recording the accession of specimens acquired for the national col-
lections, and (8) correlating and forwarding to the professional staff
future inquiries concerning the project that may be addressed to the
Smithsonian Institution.

Mail service was extended this year to the Barney House and the
Renwick Gallery and shifted to accommodate the move of several
Smithsonian offices from the Pension Building to the Liberty Loan
Building. An estimated 11,000 individual freight shipments were
handled including more than 100 entries accomplished through the
U.S. Customs. Assistance was given to 238 official travelers. Approxi-
mately 84,500 public inquiries were received; 418 involved objects
referred for professional identification. Documentation was made of
2,785 accession memoranda substantiating the ownership of many
thousands of historically and scientifically significant objects.

Smithsonian Institution Libraries

The Libraries’ cataloged collections grew by a net of nearly
16,000 volumes, and the reference staff responded to nearly 44,000
queries, both up 30 percent over the previous year. Nearly one-third
of the Libraries’ recorded circulation was of books and journals
borrowed from other libraries. Over 2700 requests were filled by
photocopying. The first phase of the serials automation project was
completed, providing computerized control and analysis of fiscal
transactions for purchased serials.

The National Museum of Natural History and the National
94 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1971

Museum of History and Technology established library advisory
committees, and the Remington Kellog Library of Marine Mam-.
malogy officially became a part of the Smithsonian’s library system.
Materials from several other branch libraries are being incorporated
into the Kellog collection. The Director of Libraries served as a
consultant to the Indonesian Institute of Sciences for the develop-
ment of that nation’s information service in science and technology.

Four library school students worked on academic projects in the
Libraries under the supervision of the Director’s Office. One pro-
duced a study of decision processes in library collection development
that is expected to influence the libraries’ organization for this
function.

The Libraries experimented with a task force concept of library
service in the National Museum of Natural History. A small team of
librarians and technical assistants were assigned as needed to per-
form service and maintenance tasks in departmental libraries on
flexible schedules. Manpower was thus matched closely to urgent
library problems as they arose. This technique at manpower utili-
zation will be extended to other bureaus of the Institution.

International Exchange Service

During the year publications were received from approximately
400 organizations in the United States for exchange with organiza-
tions in more than 100 countries. Approximately one-half of these
organizations were libraries exchanging medical and dental publica-
tions with organizations in other countries. Packages of exchange
publications weighing more than 100,000 pounds were received
from the foreign exchange bureaus for distribution in the United
States.

The daily issues of the Congressional Record and the Federal
Register were sent on exchange to 137 foreign libraries in exchange
for their parliamentary journals.

More than 400,000 pounds of official United States publications
were transmitted on exchange for the official documents of other
countries. The agreements with four recipients of partial sets were
terminated during the year, and one recipient of a full set of official
documents was changed to a recipient of a partial set.

Publications were forwarded by ocean freight to 38 exchange
bureaus in other countries for distribution to the addressees. Publi-
SPECIAL MUSEUM PROGRAMS 95

cations were mailed to the addressees in countries that do not have
exchange bureaus.

Many requests are received for assistance in sending publications to
libraries in other countries. The Service has not been able to assist
in these programs. It must restrict its activity to the exchange pro-
grams and to limit the amount of assistance furnished in this field.
PUBLIC SERVICE ACTIVITIES

iB MARCH OF THE YEAR UNDER REVIEW, Smithsonian magazine
enjoyed its first anniversary. By that time the Institution’s first
popular monthly publication had a circulation of 220,000, a figure
which magazines closest in character to Smithsonian normally take
several years to reach. All subscribers automatically become Na-
tional Members of the Smithsonian Associates, since it has been the
Institution’s intention from the beginning to create through the
magazine a full and varied membership program on a national
scale. Accordingly, efforts were made in 1971 to develop benefits
beyond the magazine which might create closer ties between the
member-subscribers and the Institution. These included a Recep-
tion Center in the Great Hall of the Smithsonian Building to assist
National Members in planning their visit to the Institution and the
Washington area in general, discounts on Museum Shops articles
or Smithsonian Institution Press publications, and the opportunity
to subscribe to a wide variety of study tours, both domestic and
international, conducted by Smithsonian staff members.

The Anacostia Neighborhood Museum began work on a novel
urban studies project funded by generous grants from the Carnegie
Corporation, the Department of Housing and Urban Development,
and the Cafritz Foundation. In essence the project is aimed initially
at having the residents of Anacostia themselves determine the social,
economic, and educational problems which most affect their lives,
through surveys conducted in situ by volunteers, with limited staff
assistance. Once these problems are clearly defined and articulated,
the Neighborhood Museum will seek to present them through a
program of exhibits, with related educational materials, for school
and community use. This experimental project is being closely
watched as a model for other communities, which have similar
neighborhood museums, many of which have received planning as-
sistance from Anacostia.

Towards the close of the period under review the first television
documentary under the series known as “Smithsonian Adventure,”
produced in collaboration with cps, was broadcast to a prime-time
Sunday night national audience. It concerned the excavations con-

96
PUBLIC SERVICE ACTIVITIES 97

ducted by Dr. Iris Love on the island of Knidos and her search for
Praxiteles’ renowned statue of Aphrodite. The documentary was
favorably reviewed by Life magazine and produced an enormous
volume of correspondence, most of it from students asking the
Institution about careers in archelogy or for further information on
the Knidos excavation. Other subjects which the Institution plans
to treat in this series include Major Powell’s exploration of the
Colorado River and human evolution, the latter featuring Dr. T.
Dale Stewart, Curator Emeritus of Physical Anthropology and
former Director of the Museum of Natural History.

The Division of Performing Arts held its fourth annual Festival
of American Folklife, with a special ‘pavillion’ or presentation
from the state of Arkansas. It brought a record crowd of over
500,000 to the Mall during its five day span, leading up to the fourth
of July. The Festival was widely praised in editorials as a common
and peaceful meeting ground for both Honor America Day par-
ticipants and radical youth demonstrators. At the end of the period
under review, the Division began a summer long folklife festival in
the United States pavillion at the “Man and His World” exposition
site in Montreal, as part of and supported by the Department of
Commerce’s ‘Visit the United States’’ program.

Smithsonian Associates

“There is always something going on at the Smithsonian which
invites participation” observed one of our more than 15,000 As-
sociate members in a letter of appreciation.

As of January 1971, the Smithsonian Associates completed its
fifth year of programs and activities created to involve people of all
ages in active participation at the Smithsonian. Throughout the
year, some 20,000 persons took part in over 170 members’ events,
including lectures on such diversified subjects as whale communica-
tion, beasts of mythology, and man and machines; musical, dance,
and poetry performances; films; special events such as the Annual
Kite Carnival and the first National Kite Competition, the Boomer-
ang Workshops, Capital Mall history tours, and Zoo Night; and
finally, the annual field trips in the museums and outdoors.

In addition, some 6500 attended six special receptions, including
two Museum Shop openings, openings for the Rube Goldberg,
Music Machines, and the Campbell collection exhibits, the Renwick
Gallery Benefit sponsored by the Woman’s Committee for the
98 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1971

Hi
Lineal i

Third place prize winner, 16-year-old Associates member John Umhow, shows off
his winning kite and trophy at the first National Kite Competition held on the
Mall 10 April 1971. (Photo by Douglas Stewart.)

PUBLIC SERVICE ACTIVITIES 99

Scholarship Fund; and Mondays at the Museum—a series of five
lectures on great collections. Another 1500 took day tours and ex-
tended study trips throughout the country.

The Associates classes and craft workshops offered more than
3300 people the opportunity to study and work directly with Smith-
sonian and visiting scholars and professional craftsmen. Of these,
over a thousand were young people, ages four to twelve (100 were
scholarship students). A total of 89 classes and 14 workshops on
subjects ranging from animal behavior, anthropology, osteology,
and the history of democracy to fabric construction and weaving
were offered.

Through these programs the Associates’ provide an opportunity
for individual and human discovery, learning, and growth within
the boundaries of the Smithsonian Institution.

Office of Public Affairs

Divisions of the Office of Public Affairs (opa) used film, tape, and
print to communicate the story of the Smithsonian and its diverse
activities in the past year. Production was completed on a half-hour
color motion picture about the Institution, Around the Clock at the
Smithsonian, produced under a grant from the Corporation for
Public Broadcasting for presentation nationally over educational
television. The first of a series of documentaries by the Columbia
Broadcasting System under the title “Smithsonian Adventure’ was
telecast 13 June and brought a flood of 1400 favorable letters from
viewers. It was one of many productions filmed in recent months by
various producers with cooperation from opa and other Smithsonian
staff members, whe are now working with the British Broadcasting
Corporation on two major series, “The Ascent of Man,” and
“America.”’ The office started an archival film record of construction
on the Joseph H. Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden. Fifty
more stations began broadcasting ““Radio Smithsonian” in the past
year. The series is now heard over sixty educational radio stations in
thirty-five states, the District of Columbia and Canada, and over the
armed forces network overseas. The opa news bureau issued more
than 200 news releases and forty-nine public service radio an-
nouncements, aided news media in coverage of special events, and
published The Smithsonian Torch and the monthly Calendar of
Events. A total of 36,500 callers used the Dial-A-Museum answering
service, and 109,500 used the Dial-A-Phenomenon service. The opa
publications section began issuing a revised series of information
100 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1971

leaflets, and produced for the first time orientation leaflets for
visitors in French and Spanish (see Appendix 8).

Office of International Activities

The Office continued to foster new dimensions of Smithsonian
programs abroad, particularly through development of cooperative
programs in environmental research and conservation. The Office
organized an Indian-American Ecology Symposium in New Delhi in
conjunction with India’s University Grants Commission. A team
of distinguished American ecologists headed by Secretary Ripley and
the Acting Assistant Secretary for Science met during February 1971
with Indian counterparts to consider approaches to ecological re-
search and training which would also serve the critical needs of
governmental planning.

To assist in development of such joint research opportunities, the
Office assigned a representative for South Asia to New Delhi for an
initial period of six months. One of his assignments of special
urgency is the development of a joint Indo-American program of
research and conservation.

The Office Director traveled to Ceylon to review progress of the
Smithsonian’s baseline ecological studies embracing elephant, pri-
mate, botanical, and entomological research there. The Director
also represented the Smithsonian at the meetings in England of the
Charles Darwin Foundation of which he is the American Secretary
(Administrative), the World Wildlife Fund World Congress, and the
Aldabra Committee of the Royal Society. The Office represented
the Institution at the International Conference on the Biology of
Whales. Closing its sixth year, the Foreign Currency Program had
awarded nearly $13 million in “excess” foreign currency grants to
over sixty American institutions of higher learning.

Program accomplishments over the six-year period include more
than 111 research publications, 214 postdoctoral research oppor-
tunities for Americans, 220 field-training opportunities for doctoral
candidates, and research collections for the Smithsonian and many
of the American grantee institutions.

Division of Performing Arts

The Division of Performing Arts continued to expand its activi-
ties in enlivening the Mall and in creating an open experience in
PUBLIC SERVICE ACTIVITIES 101

the arts for museum visitors. The Fourth Annual Festival of
American Folklife featured the State of Arkansas and Indians of
the Southern Plains. The more than 700,000 people who attended
this living exhibition of folk creativity made it perhaps the most-
attended single event in Washington. “A Festival of American
Folklife’’ was directed and produced in Montreal for the “Man
and His World,” exhibition at the original United States Pavilion.
Continuing from 11 June through 6 September the presentation was
sponsored by the United States Travel Service, U. S. Department of
Commerce, in cooperation with the Discover America Travel Or-
ganizations.

Among the programs presented with the Smithsonian Associates
were the famed Kathakali Dance Company from Kerala, India; an
evening of black poetry by Joanna Featherstone; and the Percep-
tions 3 series in contemporary performing arts: The Electric Stere-
opticon, Yvonne Rainer and the Grand Union, The Paul Sanasardo
Dance Company, and the New Music Choral Ensemble III. The
Division co-sponsored with other organizations 6 jazz concerts, 5 folk
music concerts, and 30 productions of the American College
Theatre Festival.

The Touring Performance Service presented four productions:
The American Folklife Company; The Black Experience; The
Concept; The Waywardly Wandering Wagonful of Banjo and
Jack; and Neighbors. These were seen at the Smithsonian and by
audiences from Maine to Florida and as far west as Iowa. The
Service worked with State Arts Councils for colleges, universities,
and civic organizations with minimal budgets wishing to acquire
these programs. After smoke damage delayed the scheduled opening,
the Smithsonian Resident Puppet Theater reopened on 24 March.
The Waywardly Wandering Wagonful of Banjo and Jack, based on
Kentucky folktales, played to enthusiastic audiences.

Smithsonian Museum Shops

The Smithsonian Museum Shops continued its program of offering
museum visitors a wide variety of articles carefully selected to re-
flect the exhibits of each museum, where possible with special em-
phasis on articles for children. Visitors response to books and
publications necessitated a further expansion of the book sections
of the shops in the Arts and Industries Building and the National
Museum of History and Technology. New publications of staff
102 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1971

members issued during the year were featured in exhibits, with ap-
propriate artifacts, and over four hundred new titles were added
to the extensive book collections available in the shops.

The sales exhibition program began its year with a large variety
of traditional crafts offered in the shops of the National Museum of
History and Technology, opening the first day of the Folklife
Festival and continuing during the summer. Contemporary crafts-
men of Georgia were featured in the second sales exhibition
honoring the crafts and craftsmen of the United States. The ex-
hibition featuring pottery, weaving, wood carving, and jewelry done
by thirty Georgia craftsmen was shown in the Arts and Industries
Museum Shop throughout the fall. Botanical prints by Henry
Evans and jewelry made with minerals and gems by Fridel Blu-
menthal were featured in the Natural History Museum Shop sales
exhibits.

The Museum Shops staff gave assistance, advice, and guidance to
sixteen museums in the United States that sought help in establish-
ing museum shop programs during 1970-1971.

Belmont Conference Center

The Belmont Conference Center is presently in its fifth year of
operation, with the growing prospect of more conferences each year.
During fiscal 1971, there were 69 conferences held at Belmont in
comparison with 58 the previous year, and reservations are being
made up to 18 months in advance. The Center accepts conferences
from all types of groups, the majority being governmental agencies,
but including academic, industrial, international, labor, and phi-
lanthropic organizations as well. It has welcomed nearly 1500
participants during this year.

Our Smithsonian guests have included the Smithsonian Council,
the Interdisciplinary Communications Program, the Office of Aca-
demic Programs, a pre-Symposium ‘70 seminar, and a meeting
sponsored by the Anthropology Department. The Center has been
host to groups as diversified as the U.S. Department of State and the
Baltimore Mutual Investment Company, while guests have in-
cluded Dr. Margaret Mead of the American Museum of Natural
History; His Excellency Nobuhiko Ushiba, Ambassador from Japan;
The Right Reverend Monsignor Bordelon of the U.S. Catholic
Conference; Dr. Robert Marston, Director of the National Institutes
of Health; Dr. M. C. Shelesnyak, Director of the Interdisciplinary
PUBLIC SERVICE ACTIVITIES 103

Communications Program; Ambassador Armin Meyer, American
Ambassador to Japan; Dr. John Clark, Director of the Goddard
Space Flight Center; Dean L. G. Cowan of the State University of
New York; Sir Solly Zuckerman of the British Cabinet Office; James
Kilpatrick, columnist; His Highness the Maharaja Gaekwar of
Baroda; and Nobel Prize winner Dr. Murray Gell-Mann.

Belmont accommodates twenty-four resident guests with facilities
for meetings and meals for thirty people. Yearly improvements to
this 240 year-old manor house and surrounding 365 acres make it
more comfortable and enjoyable each year.

Conference operations continue to be directed toward the needs
of small groups which require the kind of attractive, secluded, and
exclusive setting which Belmont provides, together with the ad-
vantages of easy access to Washington’s National and to Baltimore’s
Friendship airports.

Anacostia Neighborhood Museum

The story of black Americans, both slaves and free men who
fought in the War for Independence, was retold in the Anacostia
Neighborhood Museum’s exhibit “Black Patriots of the American
Revolution.” Over 3000 booklets describing the exhibit in story form
for children were distributed to school tour groups and in response
to requests from teachers and parents.

The Museum and the Lorton Reformatory cooperated in a
presentation of visual and dramatic arts done entirely by the men
from Lorton who worked along with the exhibits staff in mounting
their own paintings and handicrafts. Research for ‘Lorton Re-
formatory: Beyond Time” was undertaken during several staff visits
to the prison.

The Mobile Division offered a bussing program which takes
mini-editions of current exhibits to inner-city playgrounds and
churches in summer and schools in winter. Another project provided
teachers with a portable library of Afro-American books and shoe-
box specimens and puzzle maps on such subjects as black scientists
and places to visit in Washington of interest to black Americans.
The Speakers Bureau offers a list of lecturers on various subjects
who are available to schools and community groups.

The Center for Anacostia Studies, operating under a grant from
the Carnegie Corporation, conducted an opinion survey at the re-
quest of the Museum’s Neighborhood Advisory Committee, which
104 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1971

disclosed that crime, drugs, housing, unemployment, and education
were prime concerns. Interviews with old-time residents have been
completed in preparation for an oral history of Anacostia and an
exhibit.

Smithsonian

Although only a year old with the March 1971 issue, Smithsonian
progressed toward being an institution within the Institution via
membership in the Smithsonian Associates.

It is a circulation success with 245,000 net paid subscribers at the
end of the fiscal year. Surveys show that our readership enjoys a high
educational level. A survey indicates that 85 percent of subscribers
are college educated, that their median income is above $19,000 a
year.

Editorially, Smithsonian follows the lines of the Secretary's
original concept—being interested in what interests the Smithsonian
Institution. This, of course, starts with the Institution itself.
Through the July 1971 issue there have been 76 articles related to
the Institution. They have been from one to eleven pages long. The
Institution staff also checks material obtained from the outside.

Outside the Institution Smithsonian has had such authors as
Isaac Asimov and Theodore H. White; photographers such as Lee
Boltin, Fritz Goro, Gjon Mili, Carl Mydans, and David Plowden;
cartoonist-illustrators such as Richard Erdoes and Robert Osborn.

Unfortunately, a subscription fulfillment concern turned in a
thoroughly unacceptable job. Through a court injunction, the mag-
azine’s address tapes have been transferred to another company.
That growing pain has been satisfactorily eased.

There will be by-products. There is material for a book on man’s
environment, including his attempt to learn more about ecology
and conservation. The infinite opportunities in Smithsonian’s
assigned fields will continue to be pursued vigorously.

Smithsonian Institution Press

Much of this year’s effort was concentrated on launching the
three-level organic publication program recommended by the Visit-
ing Committee as described in Smithsonian Year 1970. Detailed in-
ventories were taken and quality evaluations made for publications
PUBLIC SERVICE ACTIVITIES 105

of level one (leaflets, available at the exhibits of public museums,
for the purpose of exhibit interpretation) and level two (booklets
and other educational materials, for students and the public at
large). Uniform, but highly attractive, design and format will be
used for these publications, and they will be made available through
vending devices at exhibit locations. Numerous leaflets, five booklets
and four recordings are in preparation.

An agreement reached with Museum Shops will enable certain
publications and recordings, heretofore available only in our mu-
seum stores, to receive national, indeed international, distribution.

By cooperative arrangement with Smithsonian magazine, Press
books have been offered to all subscribers at a discount of 20 percent,
and more attractive offerings are planned for the coming year.

The Life Portraits of John Quincy Adams, a catalog designed by
Miss Crimilda Pontes, was chosen as one of the twenty-two outstand-
ing design and production publications of the year by the Associa-
tion of American University Presses. The exhibit of these twenty-two
books will be sent to libraries, educational institutions, cultural
centers, book fairs, and special graphic art events in Europe, Asia,
Africa, and Latin America.

Production costs of 98 publications were funded in whole or in
part by Federal appropriations in the amount of $227,337.80; 13
were supported wholely or partly by Smithsonian Institution Press
private funds in the amount of $101,764.65; and 5 were subsidized
variously by Smithsonian or other private funds in the amount of
$20,321.30. The total output of 113 titles is listed in Appendix 5.
The Press warehouse, the U.S. Government Printing Office, and
George Braziller, Inc. (the Press’s sales and distribution agent)
shipped, on order and subscription, a total of 204,935 publications
during the year. In addition, 1237 records were distributed by the
Press.

Reading Is Fundamental

The National Reading Is Fundamental Program (rir) is now
operating in its fourth year as an independent unit under Smith-
sonian sponsorship, with support by the Ford Foundation. RuF’s
purpose is to motivate disadvantaged youngsters and adults to want
to read, by making available a wide variety of interesting and
relevant, inexpensive paperbacks. The program stresses self-selection
and pride of ownership in the belief that “the right to read” should
106 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1971

“D>

Pre-schoolers at a “Reading Is Fundamental” day-care center in Washington,
D.C., show their book choices to Mrs. Robert §. McNamara, RIF’s Board Chaitr-
man.

be the birthright of all America’s children. National RIF provides
technical assistance and information to those interested—school sys-
tems, libraries, and community agencies—in developing a local
project.

During 1970-1971, the number of local projects grew from eleven
to eighteen, including both urban and rural areas and various
ethnic groups—Blacks, American Indians, and Mexican-Americans.
The local sponsoring groups throughout the country were respon-
sible for funding, selection of book titles, and distribution. National
RIF also acts as liaison with the publishing industry, federal and
local governments, schools, and libraries about book programs and
provides general information to all who seek it.

New publications (see Appendix 6) are made available upon
request. During 1971-1972, plans call for a national media cam-
paign with the endorsement of the Advertising Council, a greater
emphasis on corporate sponsorship of local programs, and a close
working relationship with usor’s “Right to Read.”

The current Ford Foundation grant of $400,000 covers adminis-
PUBLIC SERVICE ACTIVITIES 107

trative support for National riF as a Smithsonian activity for the
three year period, 1970-1973. Policy guidance for RiF is provided by
a National Advisory Board composed of more than thirty distin-
guished Americans from many walks of life. The founder and chair-
man of rir is Mrs. Robert S. McNamara; Secretary Ripley serves
ex officio as a member of the r1F Board.

Division of Elementary and Secondary Education

The increase of escorted visits for local school children con-
tinues apace. The figures for school tours during the academic year
1970-1971 reflect a substantial increase in all the museums of the
Smithsonian.

Several innovations to the usual lecture tour for school groups
were introduced to enhance the opportunity for children to learn on
their own. A study tour of early man in the National Museum of
Natural History offered students a chance to examine firsthand the
permanent exhibits, slides, fossils, and artifacts, which demonstrate
the principles of human evolution. A series of seminars, under the
direction of a research docent and guide by museum specialists in
the field of anthropology, was conducted for a class of high school
students from a girls school in Maryland. The students were able to
follow in their free time and on their own initiative in-depth studies
of subjects not generally offered to high school students. In the
Museum of History and Technology a two hour “touch-it” tour was
specially arranged on request related to Colonial life studies. Simi-
larly, on the subject of the Industrial Revolution, a two-hour visit
was arranged to encompass several halls.

For Museum Education Day in March a gathering of several
hundred volunteers, teachers, Smithsonian staff members, students,
and representatives of several museums beyond the Washington area
met to discuss questions concerning how best to provide effective
education in a museum environment. The discussions were carried
out in groups of 40-50, with panels of ‘experts’ served by docent
moderators.

441-283 O-71-8
ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT

Perhaps there is no more important area of human activity than man-
agement, since its task is that of getting things done through people.
Our modern civilization has increasingly become one of cooperative
endeavor. Whether in business, government, the church, philanthropic
institutions or other forms of enterprise, the effectiveness with which
people work together toward the attainment of their joint goals is largely
determined by the ability of those who hold managerial positions. It is
to little or no avail to have advanced scientific knowledge, engineering
skills, or technical abilities unless the quality of management in organ-
ized groups permits effective coordination of these human resources.*

This principle has particular application in the Smithsonian In-
stitution in the essential day-to-day interaction between administra-
tors of our bureaus and program offices and the managers of our
support activities. The management direction of these discrete, yet
interlocking segments, must assure the accomplishment of goals
that can be attained by group, rather than individual, action.

In November 1970, a director of Support Activities was appointed
in the Office of the Under Secretary. This important step was taken
this year to further strengthen the efforts of the support group and
to assure the recognition of an administrative framework in which
they are joined systematically in a common purpose. The Director,
in addition to other related assignments, was given immediate and
continuing responsibility for the supervision and executive direction
of the following organizations: Administrative Systems Divsion,
Buildings Management Department, Contracts Office, Information
Systems Division, Office of Equal Employment Opportunity, Office
of Personnel Administration, Photographic Services Division, Supply
Division, and Travel Services Office. Again this year, despite
judicious allocation of always-limited funds, this group, as an entity,
did not receive increases in positions or funds corresponding with
the growth of the program elements of the Smithsonian. A review of
their total accomplishments reveals that this group, despite these

*Harold Koontz and Cyril O’Donnell, “Preface,” Principles of Management
(New York: McGraw-Hill Book Company, Inc., 1959).

108
ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT 109

handicaps, successfully completed a remarkable amount of excellent
work.

PROGRAM SUPPORT ACTIVITIES

The Administrative Systems Division issued in January the
Smithsonian Staff Handbook—540—Stock Catalog. This publication
lists not only items stocked in the SI Supply Division but also pro-
vides policies and guidelines for ordering, issuing, stocking, and
controlling expendable property. Work continued on another hand-
book in this series, which will furnish policy and procedural guide-
lines covering internal supporting services. A Time and Attendance
Reporting Handbook is being compiled to furnish timekeepers
with succinct and accurate guidelines for recording employee at-
tendance. Publication early in fiscal year 1972 is anticipated.

Over 310,000 copies of administrative materials concerning some
230 separate subjects were distributed to the staff. These covered
policy and major procedural matters as well as special interim in-
structions and ephemeral information. Staffing and functional state-
ments about the Smithsonian Institution were furnished to over 30
external publishers. The first Smithsonian Directory developed with
computer support is in final stages of preparation and will be
published in July 1971.

With the appointment of a new director of the Photographic
Services Division, an innovative arrangement was made that pro-
vided for the assignment of a management analyst to the director
for a temporary period of 3 to 4 months. The remarkable success
of this effort was most encouraging and it is hoped that, staff per-
mitting, similar assignments can be made when other key positions
are filled.

The Forms Management unit processed, in-house, 452 requests
from over 70 discrete organization segments for a variety of essential
management and program-related forms and form letters. In addi-
tion 156 orders were placed with the Government Printing Office
and other external services.

The Buildings Management Department is responsible for the
operation, construction, improvement, maintenance, and protection
of the physical plant and facilities, which consist of nearly 3.5 mil-
lion square feet of floor space. This includes exhibition halls, as
well as office, laboratory, and research facilities. The Department
also is responsible for assuring that the over 13 million visitors to the
110 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1971

Smithsonian Institution each year, have safe and secure visits to
the buildings, grounds, and exhibits.

The past year has been devoted to implementing organization and
program changes, developed after considerable study and analysis
of the Department’s management and operations. A work control
branch was established, staffed, and placed in operation to provide
more effective utilization of resources and improved service to the
Smithsonian.

Second generation programs were implemented through automatic
data processing to improve control over manpower, material, and
equipment and to provide timely operational information to the
Director and other levels of management and supervision within
the Department.

Over 2000 special events at the Smithsonian Institution required
substantial support and participation by Department personnel.
These included the annual Folklife Festival and the opening of
new exhibits such as the Rube Goldberg Hall and the Hall of
Music Machines in the History and Technology Building.

The numerous demonstrations in the Mall area throughout the
year placed an additional burden on the Department. These unusual
happenings resulted in expenditures for payroll and special equip-
ment in addition to regularly planned and programmed outlays.

The Engineering and Construction Division and the Facilities
Planning Office provided major design, review, and engineering
services as well as contract supervision for major projects including
alterations to the Arts and Industries Building and the Renwick
Gallery, construction of the Joseph H. Hirshorn Museum and
Sculpture Garden, and the History and Technology Building fire-
damage restoration. These units also furnished design and engineer-
ing services for constructing and remodeling over 500,000 square feet
of building space, for modifying the mechanical plant, and for
making preliminary studies for future projects.

As a result of a redesign of existing parking lots, the Department
is providing parking spaces for 112 more employees than in fiscal
year 1970. The employee parking program as well as other Depart-
ment-wide programs have been placed in the newly created Office of
BMD Programs.

Based on recommendations made by the Director of the Informa-
tion Systems Division, the Smithsonian Institution entered into an
agreement to purchase a computer system similar to the one we
have been renting. As a result, immediate savings will be realized
ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT Pi

each month and the hourly rate charged to Smithsonian and other
users of computer time will be reduced.

The Division is developing a generalized systems package that
will enable members of the professional research staff to enter in-
formation into a computer as a standard means of recording, updat-
ing, and retrieving data.

The National Portrait Gallery has implemented a system that
will provide biographically oriented indexes to artists and sitters
contained in the Catalogue of American Portraits. A system was
developed to provide indexes to the National Collection of Fine
Arts’ Bicentennial Inventory of American Paintings.

A library of advanced mathematical software packages is being
expanded to make the latest calculation capabilities available to
each scientist. The Division sponsors seminars in statistical applica-
tions to augment the value of these computer programs. Other
automated systems that have had major enhancements are the ac-
counting for foreign currency funds and expansion of the property
management system from a physical inventory control system to a
financial-inventory system. Federal and private accounting systems
were revised to handle an accrual method of reporting, and the
regional Smithsonian Associates mailing system went to an auto-
mated billing process.

As a service to the museum community at large, the Division
published two editions of their technical bulletin (Smithsonian In-
stitution Information Systems Innovations) to acquaint the reader
with automated systems specifically designed to solve the collection /
research problems of museums and herbaria. In addition, many mem-
bers of the community from home and abroad have visited and/or
requested information pertaining to automated systems at the
Smithsonian.

Under the leadership of the Secretary, the Office of Equal Em-
ployment Opportunity has maintained a responsible and viable plan
for providing equality of opportunity in all official actions of the
Smithsonian Institution.

The continuing affirmative policy for the realization of equal
opportunity objectives resulted in over 136 consultations with vari-
ous supervisory and other staff members regarding the Merit Promo-
tion Program and candidate selection. Additionally, matters of
personal concern to a number of employees were reviewed, factual
information developed, and necessary adjustments made to the
satisfaction of those involved. In two instances, formal complaints
were filed and investigatory steps taken.
112 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1971

Upon request, special advisory services were provided to em-
ployees aspiring to positions of greater responsibility. Respective
interested personnel were furnished with current information about
educational opportunities, the methods for adding specific educa-
tional credits, the requirements for career advancement, along with
the availability of extracurricular schooling in the metropolitan
D. C. area.

Four special training Work Shops were conducted for employees
assigned to supervisory positions. These discussions concerned all
levels of supervision relating to the acceptance, fulfillment, and
continuing support of the equal employment program philosophy.

The Office of Personnel Administration continued to develop its
role as a consultant resource to the managers of the Smithsonian
allowing them to assume more fully their responsibilities and exer-
cise their authorities in personnel management. This approach to
personnel management requires close cooperation between the
personnel staff and the management officials of the various opera-
tional units. An example of such cooperation involved the first signif-
icant reduction-in-force at the Smithsonian. Although a total of 25
employees were affected, the Office of Personnel Administration was
able to place 22 employees in other organizations, thus continuing
their careers with the Smithsonian.

A member of the staff in conjunction with the Civil Service Com-
mission modified the qualifications standards for museum techni-
cians. The revisions in the qualifications standards will enable the
Smithsonian Institution to draw upon a larger source of qualified
applicants.

The orientation of new employees is of continuing concern to
the Smithsonian Institution. Orientation is not viewed merely as a
meeting of new employees to discuss personnel policies and organiza-
tion, but in terms of a system which includes the activities involved
before the employee actually reports to his new job, his initial proc-
essing, his introduction to his new organization, a more or less
formal meeting (in the traditional orientation sense), and continu-
ing follow-up during his first few months on the job. As part of
this system a New Employee Handbook is being prepared and will be |
given to each new employee when he reports for duty. It is expected
that copies also will be given to all current employees.

A pilot program of supervisory training was initiated at the Na-
tional Zoological Park. This program, which was developed and
conducted by the Office of Personnel Administration consultants at
the request of Zoo management officials, was different from super-

ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT 113

visory training programs in the past because all supervisors at the
National Zoological Park were brought into the intensive training
program as a group. The program included orientation to super-
visory responsibilities, labor management relations, human behavior
in the work situation, and the administration of a personnel program
at the working level.

Since the issuance of the new Merit Promotion Policy by the U.S.
Civil Service Commission in 1969, the Smithsonian’s total merit
promotion program has been reviewed by office staff. As one result
of this review, a Secretarial Skills File has been established. This
file aids organizations in recruiting for secretarial help. When a
vacancy occurs in the secretarial field, the Office draws from this file
the best qualified candidates for the position. The amount of time
required to fill secretarial vacancies has been reduced considerably.

The Office has established a pool of clerical resources as a service
to Smithsonian organizations. These services are used when regular
office help is not available, when an office’s extra work load needs
to be handled, or when a vacancy is being filled. The pool has been
an effective means of providing essential office assistance when an
expressed need arises.

In June, the Secretary approved the reorganization of the Pho-
tographic Services Division recommended by the new director, who
had joined the Smithsonian Institution in the spring. The new
organization, which will be effective 1 July 1971, makes maximum
use of all resources, reinforces the service-oriented philosophy, and
utilizes the advantages of centralized and decentralized operations.
Wet processes, such as film and paper processing and printing, have
been centralized, and the dry process—the photography or camera
work—is decentralized and accomplished at the site or in studios
located in the major buildings. Two new sections have been estab-
lished, one to centralize and manage the negative files and the other
to centralize, manage, and expand the pay-order function. A pro-
duction control officer will schedule the daily work of the four
cohesive working sections.

Following a careful and informed study made by an ad hoc group
of cognizant Smithsonian staff members, modest increases were made
this year in the processing fees for photographic materials sold to
the public.

The Division continued its active participation in and support of
the Smithsonian’s exhibition program. Exhibits worked on during
the year included: the Rube Goldberg Hall, Music Machines—
114 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1971

American Style, Gandhi Exhibit, Energy Conversion, and Women
in Politics.

Production figures are: orders, 5,408; negatives, 19,800; color,
10,412; microfilm, 67,900; and prints, 96,500.

The Supply Division continued to process a large volume of
procurements and to take full advantage of the redistribution of
excess government property. Also, in keeping with the principles of
consolidation and uniformity, effective in February, all procure-
ment for the National Zoological Park was taken over officially by
the Division. Prior to that, the Division’s responsibility for the
Zoo’s procurement was, in general, confined to those instances when
continuing construction funds were used.

The Division’s diverse functions include procurement of supplies,
materials, contractural services and equipment; operation and
maintenance of an active personal property management program;
acquisition of excess property in lieu of new procurement whenever
possible; and ordering, controlling, and issuing laboratory, office, and
shop supplies. The successful accomplishment of these assignments
on a day-to-day basis throughout the year contributed immeasurably
to the attainment of the Smithsonian’s objectives in research, ex-
hibition, education, publication, and related activities.

The Travel Services Office continued to experience growth in
virtually all of its major activities, i.e., air and rail reservations
booked were up 10 percent; travel itineraries issued, up 9 percent;
transportation requests prepared, up .3 percent; hotel reservations
made, up 51 percent; and the dollar value of all transportation
purchased was some $35,000 higher than last year.

Much closer liaison had to be maintained with the airlines to
accomplish increasingly complex travel performed under foreign
currencies. Of particular interest was the “International Symposium
of the Biology of the Sipuncula” held in Kotur, Yugoslavia. Program
planning assistance, travel management advice, and a wide variety
of travel services and technical guidance were provided to support
major national and international symposia, meetings, expeditions,
and special programs.

During the year the Office of Audits; which reports directly to the
Under Secretary, issued three audit reports on audits conducted by
its staff members. Recommendations made in these reports resulted
in improved management procedures and controls, sometimes point-
ing to potential dollar savings.

In addition, the Office coordinated the development of an in-
115

ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT

“SJISIA QOO'81S JO OLGI WOIJ JSvaIOUT [[LIDAO Uv SJIVII SIYL »
"S}ISIA JO JOQUINU JY} UT asvaIap B pasned UOTIINAISUOD OIIIJAI 9
‘yiqiryxa [erads , 81aqploy aqny,, 9y) UT Is919]UT apIM O07 ONP

Ajjerzed sem ose asvarout ayy, “OL61 Alnf 10J sista Jo Iaquinu dy) UT aseaIoUT Ue 0} PaINgINUOD [RANsSIT IIPA[OY ULIIoUIy IY] ¢

‘S}ISIA UI JSVaIIAP AOUTU Pasned sInOY IYSIU papteyiny ,
‘yuao1ad gg ynoqe

Aq pasvaiour osTe sino} s1wapeoy “0/61 A[nf{ OJ svISTA Jo IaquINU dy) UT aseaIoUT UL 0} PaINIIIUOD [PANSIT IJITY[OY ULIIOUTY OT, ¢

1 806 108°81

66 ILF'T
G6¢'E8S'T
609°860'S
88'868
996'08L
619°91S

GLI€9G
689°668
POL‘98L
LE6 ‘SSL
F06'F 10'S
$38'8E8' I

$010],

‘sInoy JYSIU papiejiInd 0} aNp asvaiI9p ISIS z
‘O16 A[nf{ Sutinp uorvaoual 10} pasos Surpling +

9 89F'F61 831‘ S96! GF061 + GbR LEST 2 GGL‘9GP'§ z o6L'S86 I 993° 189 pte STROM,
1811 PS8‘0L9 GO1‘02 GLUoS1 668°L1E bF5'606 LL¥‘6L ee eee aunf
IFF‘S3 801‘ L09 C0g‘8I LIOISI OhS‘69E ELZOLI 906° GL oe Av
$60 81 9GF' 128 OFI'Ss P8E‘G81 €86'L96 199'6L6 GG9°LZ1 ee aie Tidy
LEOLT 686196 L101 129'18 G38'ShS G0‘ 1EI OEF'8F Sie decree et! PLY
9F6SI 046'826 LOLOL LIL‘G9 0SF‘08I 96186 096'0F A a Arenaqaq
PEPSI 068‘026 GL6‘L 196‘OF L69°S81 182'89 16606 PERO BE AS TK

IL6I
19F‘€1 699'09 6LL'8 OFI‘OF ILF‘0S1 806‘L9 LEL‘TS sree sss roquiavaq
6L6 FI 665 LEE 689'SI 108‘LL 966'696 L99°101 $89'9G nreeessss JaquiaaoNn
8oG'II 3L8‘8SE 3L8'II OLE‘89 169° 102 G26 611 909‘09 ge aaa 9 219193)°10)
313 01 LOE F0E oG6'SI 986‘0L 340691 OLE LIT 399'8F nrreees ss raquiaidag
66F LI O10°LE8 F98‘LS LES‘GSS 926‘ 9FF SF SIE [FS lg aie eee isnsny
60681 09T‘9G8 $93'F3 969803 906° Gor GES 806 poccias Bis ee esr
OL6I
sa14a]]0D Surpying i4p fo Suipping Sulpying Surpping 1 Surpying MDa X [DISLY
JWWAJLOG PUD AdojouyIa L dapjvy aa0ds K4OISTEY saldjsnpuy UvdIUOS
SJLpP aUuly D Kost LOI D ip ]DANID NT D SILP -YJlUs

IL61 aun Og-OL61 AIM I-1L61 1eaKX [eIsty Sutanq s1o0jIs1A ULTUOSYITUS
116 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1971

tegrated personal property system, the updating of authorizations
to Smithsonian contracting officers, and the publication of a list of
authorized Smithsonian contracting officers.

The Office also reviewed and closed out 84 foreign currency ©
grants, which were awarded in the total amount of $2.3 million.
The close out of these 84 grants resulted in $516,000 of unused
funds being made available for current research projects.

CONSTRUCTION PROGRESS
National Museum of History and Technology

Fire Damage. A contract to restore that part of the third floor
which was damaged by the fire which occurred on 30 September
1970, was awarded to the Spradlin Construction Company.

Calder Stabile. A lighting system was installed by the Washington
Electric Company. Final work on this project was completed in
February 1971.

Sprinkler System. A contract to install additional sprinkler sys-
tems in the building was awarded to the High Point Sprinkler Com-
pany. Completion of this work is anticipated in the fall of 1971.

National Museum of Natural History

Fumigation Chamber. Associated Builders, Inc., was awarded the
contract for installation of this facility on 12 May 1971. It is expected
that their work will be completed in July 1971.

Arts and Industries Building

Mezzanine Construction. Designs and specifications for decking
the Northwest Range were completed in June 1971. Design work for
the Southwest Range was also commenced during the same month.

It is expected that actual construction will commence during the
fall of 1971.

Joseph H. Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden

The Piracci Construction Company continued their work on the
museum building. Recent changes in the location and design of the
Sculpture Garden have resulted in an expected delay in the com-
pletion of the overall project.

National Zoological Park

Heating Plant. The heating plant was completely renovated and
converted from coal burning to gas burning furnaces.
ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT 7

Restoration and Renovation of Buildings

Smithsonian Institution Building. The firm of Paintrite, Inc., was
awarded the contract to paint those office areas not renovated under
the overall renovation project which was completed in June 1970.
This work was completed 18 September 1970.

Buildings Management Department personnel continued to work
on the renovation of basement space in the Smithsonian Institution
Building. It is anticipated that this work will be completed during
the next fiscal year.

Renwick Gallery. The contract for furthering the restoration work
was completed by Associated Builders, Inc., on 22 October 1970.
Also the firm of Schewigert, Inc., completed the installation of a
new air conditioning unit on 15 June 1971.

National Zoological Park. Contract work was completed on the
waterproofing of Delicate Hoofstock Building, Numbers | and 2.

Feasibility Studies

Parking. The final report of the study made by Wilbur Smith and
Associates for Mall garages and Zoo parking was received and is
now being considered.

National Museum of History and Technology. Victor Lundy and
Associates completed a study leading to the preparation of a
design for facilities necessary for the celebration of the Bicentennial
of the American Revolution. The proposed designs were rejected
and that part of the planning for the celebration was abandoned.
NA TLONAL GALLERY, OF (Sk

J. Carter Brown, Director

HE NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART, although technically established

as a bureau of the Smithsonian Institution, is an autonomous
and separately administered organization. It is governed by its own
Board of Trustees, the statutory members of which are the Chief
Justice of the United States, chairman, the Secretary of State, the
Secretary of the Treasury, and the Secretary of the Smithsonian
Institution, all ex officio; and five general trustees. Paul Mellon
continued as president of the Gallery and John Hay Whitney as
vice-president. The other general trustees continuing to serve were
Dr. Franklin D. Murphy, Lessing J. Rosenwald, and Stoddard M.
Stevens. During the fiscal year 1971 the Gallery had 1,597,723
visitors.

A number of important acquisitions were made. Among them:
Antony Valabrégue by Paul Cézanne; the magnificent series of four
large paintings by Thomas Cole, The Voyage of Life; a bronze of
Louis XIV by Francois Girardon; and a painting, Mount Katahdin,
by Marsden Hartley. Major acquisitions in the graphic arts have
included a rare landscape drawing by Anthony van Dyck and a
complete set of the Kleine-Welten series by Wassily Kandinsky. A
total of 61 loans were made to institutions in this country and
abroad. Expert opinio) s were given on 1341 objects.

Some of the more notable exhibitions held at the Gallery were
“Paintings and Sculpture from the Nathan Cummings Collection,”
“Mary Cassatt,” “American Paintings from the Museum of Fine
Arts, Boston and The Metropolitan Museum, New York,” “British
Painting and Sculpture 1960-1970,” “Ingres in Rome,” “Paintings
by William Hogarth from the Collection of Mr. and Mrs. Paul
Mellon,” and Diirer in America: His Graphic Work.”

The Gallery’s new multimedia education program “Art and
Man,” published by Scholastic Magazines Inc. reached 5000 classes
with more than one million magazines; 72,000 reproductions, 12,000
recordings, and 12,000 filmstrips were also distributed as part of
the program.

118
NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART 119

The Extension Service materials were viewed by a total audience
of more than 3,238,705. These materials include films, exhibitions,
and slide lectures. For the first time, the Extension Service published
a catalog of its 61 offerings, all of which are available on loan to
schools and communities at no cost.

Through the Extension Service, Kenneth Clark’s film series
Civilisation was shown to a national audience through grants from
the Xerox Corporation and the National Endowment for the Hu-
manities. The film has been seen by 400 colleges and universities
with enrollments under 2000. It is estimated that about 2.25 million
people have seen the films. For his work on Civilisation, Lord Clark
was awarded the National Gallery’s Medal for Distinguished Service
to Education in Art on 18 November 1970.

Total attendance at talks given by the Gallery’s Education De-
partment and for the programs presented in the auditorium was
83,403 for 2,530 separate tours and events. The Gallery’s regularly
scheduled events include the Sunday auditorium lectures and films,
the Tour of the Week, and Painting of the Week. There were 35
guest lecturers who spoke at the Gallery during the last fiscal year.
They included the distinguished British art historian and educator
T.S.R. Boase, the 20th annual A.W. Mellon Lecturer in the Fine
Arts, who gave a series of six talks entitled “Vasari, the Man and the
Book.”

Through its self-service sales facility, the Gallery made available
eight new publications, as well as seven catalogs of exhibitions
shown at the Gallery and published three posters in connection with
those exhibitions. During the year over 375,744 customers were
served. Under the supervision of Richard Bales, forty concerts were
given in the East Garden Court at the new hour of 7 p.m. Ten of
these were by the National Gallery Orchestra which played a special
concert of American music in honor of the Thirtieth Anniversary of
the Gallery on 14 March 1971. Two compositions were commis-
sioned for the occasion. All the concerts were broadcast in their
entirety by radio station WGMS, AM-FM.

The scientific investigation of the causes of deterioration of
museum objects and methods of conservation continued in its
twentieth year at the Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh. The
Gallery’s long-term research program completed accelerated-aging
evaluation tests in the past year on a number of polymers that hold
considerable promise in protective coatings and adhesives. Studies of
traditional and modern artists’ pigments by Mossbauer and infrared
spectroscopy, neutron-activation analysis, isotope-ratio mass spectros-
120 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1971

copy, and radioactive-decay dating methods are yielding valuable
new methods to characterize and identify artists’ pigments.

After two and a half years of intensive planning, the National
Gallery has completed final design plans for the addition to its
present building. The groundbreaking ceremony for the East
Building was held on 6 May, when architectural plans, renderings,
and models were presented to the public. Final completion of the
East Building is planned for 1975.
JOHN F. KENNEDY CENTER FOR
THE PERFORMING ARTS

William McC. Blair, Jr., General Director

Oh COUNTRY will witness the much anticipated debut of its

national center for the performing arts on 8 September when
the world premiere of Leonard Bernstein’s “Mass” inaugurates the
Kennedy Center opera house.

The opening has been the goal of the past year, with concentration
on completing construction and on the exciting program for the
Center’s first season. The staff has been expanded, additional con-
struction funds raised; there have been new gifts from nations
abroad, and a new fund established to provide low-cost tickets to
students and those with limited incomes.

The inauguration of the Kennedy Center will bring to reality a
long held dream of many Americans. It was initiated as the Na-
tional Cultural Center in 1958 by President Eisenhower and ardently
supported by President Kennedy. President Johnson signed the
1964 law designating the Center as President Kennedy's official
memorial in Washington, and the Center has received the con-
tinued interest and active support of President Nixon.

The Kennedy Center is administered separately by a 45-member
Board of Trustees appointed by the President to ten-year terms,
together with members ex-officio from pertinent public agencies and
from the United States Senate and House of Representatives. Mem-
bers of the Board at the end of fiscal 1971 are as follows:

Roger L. Stevens, Chairman Abe Fortas

Richard Adler Rep. Peter H. B. Frelinghuysen
Floyd D. Akers Senator J. William Fulbright
Robert O. Anderson Mrs. George A. Garrett
Ralph E. Becker** Leonard H. Goldenson

K. LeMoyne Billings H. R. Haldeman*

Edgar M. Bronfman Mrs. Rebekah Harkness

Mrs. Edward Cox* George B. Hartzog, Jr.
Robert W. Dowling Mrs. Paul H. Hatch*

Ralph W. Ellison Senator Edward M. Kennedy
Mrs. J. Clifford Folger* Thomas H. Kuchel

12]
122

Mrs. Michael J. Mansfield
Sidney P. Marland, Jr.
Harry C. McPherson, Jr.
George Meany

Robert I. Millonzi

L. Quincy Mumford
Senator Charles Percy
Elliot Richardson

John Richardson, Jr.

S. Dillon Ripley, II

Rep. Teno Roncalio
Arthur M. Schlesinger, Jr.

SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1971

Mrs. Jouett Shouse**
Mrs. Stephen E. Smith
Henry Strong*

William H. Thomas
Rep. Frank H. Thompson, Jr.
Senator John V. Tunney
Jack J. Valenti

William Walton

Walter E. Washington
Lew R. Wasserman
Edwin L. Weisl, Sr.

*Appointed by President Nixon on 14 September.
**Reappointed by President Nixon on 14 September.

The 114-member Advisory Committee on the Arts, appointed by
the President, includes 10 new members appointed by President
Nixon on 7 May. During the year the Committee has provided
extensive counsel on the Center’s promotion, programming and its
educational aims, and also has secured donations of $1 million
toward the completion of the Eisenhower Theater.

The Executive Committee of this group is as follows:

Mrs. J. Willard Marriott, Chairman

Robert S. Carter, Secretary

Raymond A. Lamontagne, Special
Counsel

Vernon B. Stouffer, Chairman, Finance

Mrs. David E. Bradshaw, Vice
Chairman, Finance

Mrs. Jack Wrather, Chairman, Public
Relations

Mrs. Paul A. Clayton, Chairman,
Education & Program

Mrs. Benjamin C. Evans, Vice
Chairman, Education & Program

Mrs. D. Eldredge Jackson, Northeast
Regional Chairman

Harvey B. Cohen, Southern Regional
Chairman

Mrs. William A. McKenzie, Western
Regional Chairman

John H. Myers, Midwest Regional
Chairman

Harry L. Jackson, Vice Chairman,
Public Relations

Construction of the Kennedy Center stands about 90 percent
complete at the end of fiscal 1971, with the opening of the opera
house and concert hall scheduled for 8 and 9 September, respectively,
and the opening of the Eisenhower Theater tentatively set for
October. The Film Theater is scheduled for completion in 1972.

The three roof-terrace restaurants—La Grand Scene, a gourmet
dining room; the Gallery, a café, and the Promenade, a buffeteria—
will open to the public in August. They are managed by Canteen
Corporation. Two of the three levels of underground parking have
been in use since January of this year, with management by APCOA.

New staff appointments during the year include Norman L. Fagan,

JOHN F. KENNEDY CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS 123

formerly executive director of the West Virginia Arts and Humani-
ties Council, as Director of Education (4 January); Michael Sean
O’Shea, widely experienced press representative in the performing
arts, as Director of Publicity and Promotion (1 February), and J.
Charles Gilbert, formerly managing director of the Civic Opera
House and Civic Theater in Chicago, as General Manager of the
Center’s theaters (1 May.) Julius Rudel, who has been the Center’s
Music Advisor since 1968, was named Music Director in January.

The appointment of Willis Conover, widely known broadcaster
for the Voice of America, as Consultant for Jazz Programs was an-
nounced on 10 July. The appointment of a 10-member Jazz Ad-
visory Panel was also announced on that date with the following
membership: Julian (Cannonball) Adderley, David Baker, Co-chair-
man, Topper Carew, Willis Conover, Co-chairman, Stanley Dance,
Ernest Dyson, Julian Euell, John Lewis, ‘Tahir Sur, and Clark Terry.

Katherine Dunham, dancer-choreographer-educator, was engaged
as the Center’s Technical Advisor for Inter-Cultural Communica-
tions in June.

The National Symphony Orchestra, under the leadership of its
distinguished new director Antal Dorati, will give its regular season
of concerts in the Center, it was announced on 9 December. The
Orchestra, under Mr. Dorati’s direction, with Isaac Stern as soloist
and the Paul Hill Chorale and the Washington Choral Arts Society,
will open the Concert Hall on 9 September.

The American College Theatre Festival, presented for the third
consecutive year by the Center with the Smithsonian, brought ten of
the nation’s best college theater companies to perform at Ford’s
Theatre and the George Washington University Center Theater
between 21 March and 4 April. The Festival was produced by the
American Educational Theatre Association with Frank Cassidy as
Executive Producer. American Airlines, American Express, and
American Oil were sponsors.

The American College Jazz Festival, presented for the second year
by the Center in cooperation with the Krannert Center on the
Champaign-Urbana campus of the University of Illinois, brought
together almost 300 of the nation’s top student jazz musicians to
perform on 14, 15, and 16 May. American Airlines and American
Express were sponsors for the event.

Natalia Makarova, who defected from the Soviet Union in October

and joined the American Ballet Theatre as a prima ballerina shortly
thereafter, visited the Kennedy Center on 19 May. Ballet Theatre,

44-283: ©) = 01-9

124 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1971

the official Kennedy Center dance company, will make its first ap-
pearance in the opera house on 1] September.

The Gala Preview of the Center on 27 May attracted 3500 people
from Washington, from almost every state and from 30 nations
abroad for an “early bird” look at the Center complemented by
dancing, a buffet supper and fireworks at midnight. The evening
announced that the Center was nearly ready to open, honored the
ambassadors of the countries who are making gifts to the Center,
and raised about $240,000 to initiate the Special Ticket Fund, which
will provide low-cost tickets to Center events for students, the
elderly, and others with limited incomes.

Almost 50 internationally prominent performing artists have ac-
cepted the invitation of the Trustees to become Founding Artists
of the Kennedy Center. The Founding Artists, comprising the

classical and popular fields, will donate a concert during the ~
Center’s premiere season to benefit the Special Ticket Fund, and

will have their names etched in marble within the Center.

More than 30 nations are making contributions to the Center and >

during the year four of these were announced.

Ambassador Walter Loridan of Belgium announced on 9 March >

that his country would donate mirrors for the Center’s grand foyer,
concert hall and opera house lobbies, and the restaurant area.

Israel will furnish and decorate the concert hall lounge with
specially commissioned artworks illustrating the continuous bond
between Judaism and music from Biblical times to the present. The
gift was announced by Mrs. Yitzhak Rabin, wife of the Ambassador
of Israel, on 29 April.

The presentation of the gift of France—two tapestries by Henri
Matisse and two sculptures by Henri Laurens—was made by Chargé
d’Affaires Emmanuel Margerie during a brief ceremony in the
Center on 24 May.

Ambassador Olavi Munnki of Finland presented his country’s
gift of Finnish designed chinaware, including complete dinner
service for the Promenade and Gallery restaurants, during a brief
ceremony on 14 June.

Several of the gifts from other nations were installed during the
year including the crystal chandeliers from Norway, Sweden, Austria,
and Ireland. The red and gold silk stage curtain from Japan was
taken out of storage in preparation for installation in the opera
house this summer.

The Center opened its doors for two public tours in October and
the enthusiastic visitors, numbering about 10,000, were treated to a
JOHN F. KENNEDY CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS 125

concert by the U.S. Army Band and the U.S. Navy Band. Princess
Sophia of Spain, escorted by Center Trustee Tricia Nixon Cox, and
Mrs. Ferdinand Marcos, wife of the President of the Philippines,
were among the foreign dignitaries visiting during the year. Special
tours were also conducted for cabinet wives, Congressional wives,
Smithsonian staff members, representatives of performing arts or-
ganizations, and other groups with a special interest in the Center.

The Friends of the Kennedy Center, established as an auxiliary
organization by the Trustees in 1966, have increased their member-
ship to more than 6000, representing 48 states, with 29 regional and
state chairmen. The annual meeting of the Friends, normally held
in the spring, was postponed to September to coincide with the
Center’s opening.

Officers at the close of the fiscal year are as follows: Mrs. Polk
Guest, Chairman, Mrs. Norris Dodson, Jr., Vice Chairman, Mrs.
Eugene C. Carusi, Secretary, and Mr. Henry Strong, Treasurer.

The Friends sponsored a three-day Blues Festival at Howard
University on 5, 6, and 7 November, helped enable Katherine Dun-
ham to bring a young dance group from East St. Louis, Illinois, to
perform during the White House Conference on Children in Decem-
ber, and held their Founders Day Luncheon, attended by 750 people,
on 16 January in the Center, the first such event. Ongoing projects
of the Friends include the Information Center adjacent to the
building, the Speakers Bureau, a regular newsletter, and a weekly
radio program on station WGMs.
_ - oe ¥¥

NAT Wea, Seva mak WY ao% «Sn

P,
ee ,
: : | =
LOA» ME Ades: doneg10d, al
AG ht OM eR eA cote oy! by os
pgs | vil Jory gaeobeagt oO ae er ethG enue

PieeTG, 29% eGt.noren pabeiels espterieyidy.-1 se bly a
PONE UigoieeigS, wai Seales ood. epee hes ‘wh .
CI MAUL yl ao ircid te eh eee eee 1) Vithie hagas

i '

TLE Lit) 0 Obl » 4) p : * pray

“vii rl rart ode die ey A
ivreanolt rae Like? rue) y? JF PV ee
aS! ‘ 4 Pag ; 7’ ; 4 " bie Gq (
‘ 4 } : 4
melita at 2 toy) de eges V1 St Sy) ea
{ i 4 H ty ii ; aS dai Ba) ta D, ‘
: 7? i 7 4 ort hie
i d ie2f af « ped ho (hie id
F ‘ j ;
; ; ; on aoa
AVES ¥ Ad ' A) fi aa f , bai It, J wa
if \ Rat " ' ” xy

4
) ws ‘el 1 Oe,
| ‘
, ; min <a iis & inh
‘on : at ree Dy

t

' a s¢4 ati aes cine: Wig ie iS
; f MORAY Oe (eer he tee iiene p

abit riiey ie

-

(.OD0e@ Ure ae 27 tit € ae ae . arr 0.
v Pte 9ippaneiieriw sican 1

a
EE BN DIC ES
Appendix 1

SMITHSONIAN FOREIGN CURRENCY PROGRAM
GRANTS AWARDED IN FISCAL YEAR 197]

Archeology and Related Disciplines

AMERICAN INSTITUTE OF INDIAN STUDIES, PHILADELPHIA, PENNSYLVANIA. Continued
support for Poona Center, Benares Center for South Asian Art and Arche-
ology, and American Institute of Indian Studies research fellowships.

AMERICAN RESEARCH CENTER IN EGypT, PRINCETON, NEW JERSEY. Continued sup-
port for a program of research and excavation in Egypt, research in Arabic
literature, support for operation of Cairo Center, expedition to Fustat, epi-
graphic and architectural survey of Luxor, maintenance of a stratified Pharonic
site at Mendes, excavation at the ancient city of Memphis, and excavation
of the ancient city of Hierakonpolis.

AMERICAN SCHOOLS OF ORIENTAL RESEARCH, CAMBRIDGE, MASSACHUSETTS. Arche-
ological activities of the American Schools of Oriental Research.

Brook_LyN MusEuM, BrookLyNn, NEw York. Egyptological projects of the Brook-
lyn Museum.

CARNEGIE MusEUM, PitrrsBURGH, PENNSYLVANIA. Excavations at Tel Ashdod, Israel.

CorNELL UNiversiry, IrHAca, New York. Academic research and field work in
biological anthropology and prehistoric archeology.

DENISON UNIVERSITY, GRANVILLE, OHIO. Excavation of the Roman imperial
metropolis at Sirmium.

DUMBARTON OAKS CENTER FOR BYZANTINE STUDIES, WASHINGTON, D.C. Excavations
leading to the publication of a corpus of ancient mosaics of Tunisia.

HARVARD UNIVERSITY, CAMBRIDGE, MASSACHUSETTS. Publication of the ethnological
contribution of Milenko S. Filipovic.

HEBREW UNION COLLEGE, JERUSALEM SCHOOL OF ARCHEOLOGY, CINCINNATI, OHIO.
Excavation of an archeological site at Gezer, Israel.

INDIANA UNIVERSITY, BLOOMINGTON, INDIANA. Excavations at Nin, Dalmatia, Yugo-
slavia.

Rutcers University, NEw BruNswick, NEW JERSEY. Studies in ancient Roman
glass excavated at Salona, Yugoslavia.

Rutcers UNIversiry, DouGLAss CoLLEGE, NEw BRuNswick, NEW JERSEY. Arche-
ological excavations at Salona, Yugoslavia.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, DEPARTMENT OF ANTHROPOLOGY, WASHINGTON, D.C.
Ethnographic research on selected Tibetan artifacts.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, DEPARTMENT OF ANTHROPOLOGY, WASHINGTON, D.C.

Study of disappearing traditional crafts, industries, and technologies in Pakis-
tan.

129
130 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1971

UNIVERSITY OF ARIZONA, Tucson, ARIZONA. Excavations at the site of Tabun,
Israel.

UNIVERSITY OF KENTUCKY, LEXINGTON, KENTUCKY. Metric and morphological
traits in the dentition and calvaria of neo-eneolithic crania from Wislica,
Poland.

UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, ANN ArRBorR, MICHIGAN. Excavations of a middle paleo-
lithic site in northern Bosnia, Yugoslavia.

UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA, MINNEAPOLIS, MINNESOTA. Excavations of the Palace
of Diocletian at Split, Yugoslavia.

UNIVERSITY OF Missouri, CoLumMBiIA, Missourt. Investigations of ancient glass-
manufacturing sites in Israel.

UniversiITy OF NEw Mexico, ALBEQUERQUE, NEW Mexico. Studies of Majolica
pottery in Morocco.

UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA, UNIVERSITY MUSEUM, PHILADELPHIA, PENNSYLVANIA.
The Akhnaten Temple project.

UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA, UNIVERSITY MUSEUM, PHILADELPHIA, PENNSYLVANIA.
The Dra Abu el-Naga project.

UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIA. Study of early food-pro-
ducing cultures in Yugoslavia.

University OF Texas, Austin, Texas. Archeological investigations at Stobi.

Systematic and Environmental Biology
(Including Paleobiology)

AMERICAN UNIVERSITY OF BEIRUT, NEw York, NEW York. Zoogeography and com-
munity structure of Sand Beach Meiofauna in the Mediterranean Sea.

Duke UNIVERSITY, DURHAM, NORTH CAROLINA. Studies of ramalina lichens in
Morocco.

NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES, WASHINGTON, D.C. Research, planning, and
training for International Biological Program personnel in the “excess” cur-
rency countries.

PHILADELPHIA ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES, PHILADELPHIA, PENNSYLVANIA.
Study of specimens of marine ostracods in Tunisia.

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY, PRINCETON, NEW JERSEY. Structure and function of
tropical avian communities.

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY, PRINCETON, NEW JERSEY. Studies in comparison of tropical
forest structures.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, WASHINGTON, D.C. DEPARTMENT OF BOoTANY. A flora
of the Hassan District, Mysore State, India.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, WASHINGTON, D.C. DEPARTMENT OF INVERTEBRATE
ZooLocy. Studies on the systematics and physiological ecology of Tunisian
sponge communities.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, WASHINGTON, D.C. DEPARTMENT OF VERTEBRATE ZOOL-
ocy. Geographical and ecological study of the mammals of Morocco.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, WASHINGTON, D.C. DEPARTMENT OF VERTEBRATE ZOOL-
ocy. Serological and ectoparasite survey of migratory birds in northeast Africa.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, WASHINGTON, D.C. Division oF Birps. Preparation of
a manuscript for a handbook of Indian birds.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, WASHINGTON, D.C. Division oF Birps. Migratory bird
survey in India.
APPENDIX 1. SMITHSONIAN FOREIGN CURRENCY PROGRAM 131

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, WASHINGTON, D.C. OFFICE OF EcoLoGy. Symposium on
recent advances in tropical biology.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, WASHINGTON, D.C. OFFICE OF OCEANOGRAPHY AND
Limnotocy. Study in Israel of biological interchanges between the eastern
Mediterranean and the Red Sea through the Suez Canal.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, WASHINGTON, D.C. OFFICE OF OCEANOGRAPHY AND
Limnotocy. Survey of the marine fauna and flora of Morocco.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, WASHINGTON, D.C. OFFICE OF OCEANOGRAPHY AND
Lrmno.ocy. Support for the Mediterranean Marine Sorting Center in Tunisia.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, WASHINGTON, D.C. OFFICE OF OCEANOGRAPHY AND
Limno.ocy. Refitting of the research vessel Phykos.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, WASHINGTON, D.C. Support for the first Indian-Ameri-
can ecology symposium in New Delhi.

Texas A & M University, CoLLEcE STATION, TExAs. Study of the ecology and
behavior of gazelles in Israel.

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, BERKELEY, CALIFORNIA. Biosystematic research on
bees of the genus Ceratina (Hymenoptera: Apoidea) .

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, BERKELEY, CALIFORNIA. Biosystematic studies of Mo-
roccan flora.

UNIVERSITY OF CoLoRADO, BOULDER, CoLorapo. Studies of the cytotaxonomy of
the Yugoslavian flora.

Universiry oF Hawai, HonoLutu, HAwau. Studies and collection of lizards on
Yugoslavia’s Adriatic Islands.

UNIVERSITY OF THE STATE OF NEW York, STONY Brook, NEw York. Study of the
ecology of an Eilat coral reef in Israel.

UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON, SEATTLE, WASHINGTON. Research on the biology and
control of the wild boar of West Pakistan.

YALE Universiry, NEw Haven, Connecticut. Habitat relationships and distri-
bution of wild ungulates in the Gir Forest, India.

Astrophysics and Earth Sciences

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY, CAMBRIDGE, MASSACHU-
sETts. Theories of planetary motion.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY, CAMBRIDGE, MASSACHU-
sETTs. Multicolor photoelectric observations of flare stars at the Uttar Pradesh
State Observatory, Naini Tal, India.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY, CAMBRIDGE, MASSACHU-
sETTs. Observation of Uttar Pradesh State Observatory at Naini Tal, India.
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY, CAMBRIDGE, MASSACHU-

sETts. Study of the collective behavior of self-gravitating systems.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY, CAMBRIDGE, MASSACHU-
sETTs. An astronomical observing program in Israel.

Museum Programs

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, DivisiON OF MECHANICAL AND CIVIL ENGINEERING, WASH-
INGTON, D.C. Research on early machine tools, early materials handling equip-
ment, and interchangeable manufacture in Poland.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, WooDROW WILSON INTERNATIONAL CENTER FOR SCHOL-
ARS, WASHINGTON, D.C. Research in international ocean studies.
Appendix 2

MEMBERS OF THE SMITHSONIAN COUNCIL 30 JUNE 1971

Dr. ROGER ABRAHAMS. Professor of English and Anthropology, Afro-American
Research Institute, University of Texas, Austin.

Mr. H. Harvarp ARNASON. Vice President for Art Administration, Solomon R.
Guggenheim Foundation, New York City.

Dr. HERMAN R. BRANSON. President, Lincoln University, Pennsylvania.

PROFESSOR FRED R. EccAN. Department of Anthropology, University of Chicago,
Illinois.

PROFEssOR DONALD S. FARNER. Chairman, Department of Zoology, University of
Washington, Seattle.

PROFESSOR ANTHONY N. B. GArvAN. Chairman, Department of American Civiliza-
tion, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia.

Dr. Murray GELL-MANN. Robert Andrews Millikan Professor of Theoretical
Physics, California Institute of Technology, Pasadena.

Dr. PHitip HANDLER. President, National Academy of Sciences, Washington, D.C.

PROFEssOR G. EVELYN HUTCHINSON. Sterling Professor of Zoology, Yale University,
New Haven, Connecticut.

PROFESSOR JAN LARueE. Department of Music, Graduate School of Arts and
Sciences, New York University, New York City.

Mr. CiiFForp L. Lorn. President, Hofstra University, Hempstead, Long Island,
New York.

PROFESSOR CHARLES D. MICHENER. Watkins Distinguished Professor of Entomology
and of Systematics and Ecology, University of Kansas, Lawrence.

Dr. PETER M. Mitiman. National Research Council of Canada, Ottawa, Ontario.
Meteoritic Specialist.

Mr. Ettinc E. Morison. Professor of History and Master, Timothy Dwight Col-
lege, Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut.

Mr. Ropert MOTHERWELL. Distinguished Professor, Hunter College, New York
City.

PRoFEssoR NORMAN HoiMEs PEarsoN. Professor of English and American Studies,
Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut.

Mr. Gorpon N. Ray. President, John Simon Guggenheim Memorial Foundation,
New York City.

Mr. Puivie C. RitrersusH. Chairman, Organization Response, Washington, D.C.

Mr. ANDRE SCHIFFRIN. Managing Director, Pantheon Books, New York City.

PROFESSOR CyRiL STANLEY SMITH. Institute Professor, Massachusetts Institute of
Technology, Cambridge.

Dr. JOHN D. Spikes. College of Science, University of Utah, Salt Lake City.

PROFEssOR STEPHEN E. TouLmin. Department of Philosophy, Michigan State
University, East Lansing.

132

APPENDIX 2. MEMBERS OF THE SMITHSONIAN COUNCIL 133

Dr. WILLIAM VoN Arx. Senior Scientist, Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution,
Woods Hole, Massachusetts.

PROFESSOR WARREN H. WAGNER, JR. Department of Botany and Matthaei Botani-
cal Gardens, The University of Michigan, Ann Arbor.

Dr. RAINER ZANGERL. Field Museum of Natural History, Roosevelt Road and
Lakeshore Drive, Chicago, Illinois.
Appendix 3

SMITHSONIAN ASSOCIATES MEMBERSHIP 1970-1971

Our deepest gratitute is extended to our members for their interest and gen-
erous support of the Smithsonian Associates this year, and especially to those
listed below, who have contributed amounts in excess of the membership dues.

Founder Members

($1000 and up)

Mr. Irwin Belk The Honorable and Mrs. John
The Honorable and Mrs. David Clifford Folger
K. E. Bruce Mr. Cornelius Van S. Roosevelt
Mrs. Morris Cafritz Mr. Thomas J. Watson, Jr.
The Honorable Douglas Dillon Mr. P. A. B. Widener
Mr. Charles E. Eckles Mr. Christian A. Zabriskie (Deceased)

Mr. and Mrs. Sidney S. Zlotnick

Sustaining Members

($500 and up)

Mrs. Anna Bing Arnold Mr. Newell W. Ellison
Mrs. Theodore Babbitt Mr. and Mrs. Alfred U. Elser, Jr.
Mr. Joel Barlow Mr. and Mrs. Richard S. Friedman
Mr. and Mrs. Richard J. H. Barnes Mr. Richard E. Fuller
Mr. William R. Biggs Mr. and Mrs. Hy Garfinkel
Mr. George A. Binney Mr. George A. Garret
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph D. Blatt Mr. Crawford H. Greenewalt
Mr. Hardy Jefferson Bowen Mr. and Mrs. Gilbert C. Greenway
Mrs. L. Roosevelt Bramwell Mr. William H. Greer, Jr.
Mr. A. Marvin Braverman Mr. Melville B. Grosvenor
Mr. and Mrs. John Nicholas Brown Mr. Gilbert Hahn
Mr. Bertram F. Brummer Mr. Laurence Harrison
Mr. Leon Campbell, Jr. Mr. and Mrs. Joseph H. Hirshhorn
Mr. and Mrs. Leonard Carmichael Mr. and Mrs. Christian C. Hohenlohe
Dr. Rita Chow Mr. Philip Johnson
Clarke and Rapuano Foundation Miss Brenda Kuhn

(Mr. Gilmore D. Clarke) Mr. Harold F. Linder
Mrs. Frances A. Davila Colonel and Mrs. Leon Mandel
Mr. and Mrs. Henry F. DuPont Mr. and Mrs. J. Willard Marriott

134
APPENDIX 3. SMITHSONIAN ASSOCIATES MEMBERSHIP

Mr. William McC. Martin, Jr.
Lieutenant Commander and Mrs.
P. J. Maveety
Mr. and Mrs. Paul Mellon
Miss Katherine A. A. Murphy
Neuberger Foundation Inc.
(Roy R. and Marie S. Neuberger)
Duke of Northumberland
Mr. Douglas W. Orr (Deceased)
Mrs. K. D. Owen
Dr. and Mrs. Melvin M. Payne
Miss Lucy M. Pollio
Mrs. Merriweather Post
Mr. Peter Powers
Miss Elsie Howland Quinby

Dr. and Mrs. S. Dillon Ripley
Mr. and Mrs. Seymour J. Rubin
Mr. H. C. Seherr-Thoss

Mrs. Jouett Shouse

Dr. and Mrs. Carl Swan Shultz
Mr. and Mrs. Robert H. Smith
Mr. Robert T. Smith

135

Mr. and Mrs. Bertrand L. Taylor III

Mrs. Clark W. Thompson

Mrs. Carll Tucker

Mr. Alexander O. Vietor

Mr. and Mrs. John W. Warner
Dr. and Mrs. Alexander Wetmore
Mr. and Mrs. W. Bradley Willard
Mrs. Rose Saul Zalles

Contributing Members

($100 and up)

Mrs. Howard Ahmanson

Mr. and Mrs. James C. H. Bonbright

Mr. Maxwell Brace
Mr. J. Bruce Bredin

The Honorable William A. M. Burden

Mrs. Jackson Burke

Mr. and Mrs. G. Howland Chase

Mr. and Mrs. Leon Chatelain, Jr.

Miss Joan Collett

Dr. and Mrs. William H. Crocker

General Jacob L. Devers

Mr. and Mrs. Ewen C. Dingwall

Mr. and Mrs. Bryan M. Eagle

Mr. and Mrs. Charles Eames

Mr. and Mrs. Robert B. Eichholz

The Honorable and Mrs. Edward
Foley

Mr. T. Jack Gary, Jr.

Mr. W. E. Gathright

Mr. and Mrs. T. K. Glennan

Mr. and Mrs. Charles C. Glover III

Colonel and Mrs. Julius Goldstein

Mrs. Katharine Graham

Dr. Sheila H. Gray

Mr. and Mrs. Homer Gudelsky

Mr. Arthur A. Houghton, Jr.

Miss Elisabeth Houghton

Mrs. Edward F. Hutton

Mr. David Lloyd Kreeger

Mr. and Mrs. Anthony A. Lapham

Mrs. Mortimer C. Lebowitz

Mrs. Newbold Legendre

Mr. and Mrs. Saul M. Linowitz

Mrs. Demarest Lloyd

Mrs. J. Noel Macey

Mr. and Mrs. Leonard H. Marks

Mr. and Mrs. George C. McGhee

Mr. and Mrs. John H. McLaren

Mrs. William Moreden

Mr. and Mrs. Carl J. Mulert, Jr.

Mr. Gerson Nordlinger, Jr.

Mr. Gyo Obata

The Honorable and Mrs. Jefferson
Patterson

Mr. Charles Emory Phillips

Dr. and Mrs. Ernest G. Rafey

Mr. James H. Ripley

Mr. William H. Scully

Mrs. John Farr Simmons

Dr. and Mrs. T. Dale Stewart

Mrs. Edward C. Sweeney

Mrs. Mary Davidson Swift

Martha Frick Symington, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. David G. Townsend

Mr. and Mrs. A. Buel Trowbridge

Mr. George C. Webster

Mr. and Mrs. William S. Weedon

Mr. and Mrs. J. H. Wilkinson, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Mark Winkler
136

SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1971

Supporting Members

($50 and up)

The Reverend and Mrs. F. Everett
Abbott

Mr. and Mrs. Stanley N. Allan

Mrs. Carol P. Banks

Dr. and Mrs. Montgomery Blair

Mr. Herbert Block

Mr. and Mrs. Emanuel Boasberg III

The Honorable Frances P. Bolton

Mr. and Mrs. Philip Bonsal

Mrs. Albert J. Bowley

Mrs. Linda C. Burgess

Mr. and Mrs. Horace W. Busby, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Frank Caplan

Mr. and Mrs. James G. Chandler

Mr. and Mrs. David Sanders Clark

Mrs. Chester Dale

Captain and Mrs. Robert F. Doss

Mr. and Mrs. Lionel Epstein

Mrs. Julius Fleischmann

The Honorable Peter Freylinghuysen

Mr. John W. Galston

Mr. and Mrs. Melvin Gelman

Mr. and Mrs. Ernest W. Grove

Mr. Tom Hart

Mr. and Mrs. Louis Hausman

Mr. and Mrs. Randolph A. Hearst

Mr. and Mrs. John W. Hechinger

Mrs. Rex D. Hopper, Sr.

Mr. H. T. Howard, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. James H. Hughes

Mr. and Mrs. James D. Hurd

Mrs. George C. Keiser

Mr. J. A. King

Miss N. P. Kuhn

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Liggett

Dr. and Mrs. Charles U. Lowe

Miss Katharine Magraw

Mrs. Isabel C. Mahaffie

Mr. and Mrs. Gershom R. Makepeace

Major and Mrs. George S. Mansfield
Mr. and Mrs. Sheldon I. Matzkin
Dr. and Mrs. Francis Mayle, Jr.
Dr. and Mrs. Edgar H. McPeak
Mr. and Mrs. Mylon Merriam
Colonel and Mrs. Kenneth L. Moll
Mrs. E. P. Moore

Miss Lee Muth

Mr. and Mrs. V. M. Newbold

Mr. and Mrs. J. Lloyd Niles
Nutrition Today

Mrs. Carolyn C. Onufrak

Mr. Estrada Raul Oyuela

Miss Ruth Uppercu Paul

Mrs. Duncan Phillips

Mr. Donald H. Price

Mrs. Albert J. Redway

Dr. Michael J. Reilly

Mr. R. D. Remley

Mr. and Mrs. John Richardson, Jr.
Mrs. John Barry Ryan

Mr. and Mrs. Herbert Salzman
Mr. and Mrs. Frank M. Sanger, Jr.
Mr. Michael F. Sawyer

Dr. and Mrs. George L. Sigalos
Mr. and Mrs. Richard R. Sigmon
Mr. and Mrs. Murray Socolof

Mrs. Beck Stein

Mr. and Mrs. Richard L. Sugarman
Mrs. Sally Sweetland

Mr. and Mrs. E. Russell True, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. John D. Walker

Mr. and Mrs. Robert B. Watson
Mrs. Norma Christine Wertz

Mr. and Mrs. Anthony Wilson
Mrs. Mark Winkler

Mrs. Leslie H. Wyman

Mrs. Maury Young
Appendix 4

STAFF OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

30 JUNE 1970

Secretary's Office and Related Activities

MURCESECUCEATY ciaici0 Se ac «cn ieis eels soe 8 6's
Bsxecurive Assistant... 62. 6c «0s
UGE SEGREARIS) otabe dian bose sould oo
Administrative, Officer” is. . soso. . =<
Director of Support Activities .......
Assistant to Under Secretary .........
Director, Office of Audits ...........
Director General of Museums, and
Director, United States National
IMIISELIN GE te ee ene ae sees: s
Assistant Secretary (Science), Acting. ...
Assistant Secretary (History and Art)...
Assistant Secretary (Public Service) .....
ER QUIRES 6 SSSR OR OOE BRO Ee ooeere
ASSIStANt eNCASUTED -.4..6 sieveusieje.c eile e-
Director, Office of Programming
ATU BG CE a aoa airagsy ns ouors ave ts Sieve o>
GhiefeAccountant, 2.0.7. cr ars ses
feneralmCOQunsell ean caer ta ese
Assistant General Counsels ..........

Special Projects, Office of the Secretary
Special Assistant to the Secretary.....
Special Assistant to the Secretary.....
Director, Office of Development .....
Editor, Joseph Henry Papers ........
Director, Office of Equal Employment

Opportunity... 3c ee BML ak...

S. Dillon Ripley
Christian C. Hohenlohe 1
James Bradley

Dorothy Rosenberg
Richard L. Ault

Edward H. Kohn

Chris S. Peratino

Frank A. Taylor 2
David Challinor 3
Charles Blitzer
William W. Warner
T. Ames Wheeler
Betty J. Morgan

John F. Jameson

Allen S. Goff

Peter G. Powers

Alan D. Ullberg

George S. Robinson

L. Wardlaw Hamilton
Mrs. Suzanne D. Murphy
Mrs. M. Malaro

Richard H. Howland
Woodruff M. Price #
Lynford E. Kautz
Nathan Reingold

Joseph A. Kennedy

1 Replaced John H. Dobkin on | June 1971.

? Retired 23 January 1971.

3 Replaced Sidney R. Galler on 11 January 1971.

+ Appointed | February 1971.

137
138 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1971

Support Activities
Chief, Administrative Systems

DPIVISTONS 2 ne eaves chris etcetera Ann S. Campbell
Director, Buildings Management
WEP EMMMNSTE Gosccaddsaccocacabods Andrew F. Michaels

Contracting Officer, Contracts Office. .
Chief, Duplicating Section ..........
Director, Information Systems

Elbridge, O. Hurlbut
Joseph E. Freeman

DIVISION Pras an soe eee is sine Stanley A. Kovy
Director, Office of Personnel

Administration ie 324: oe Vincent J. Doyle °
Director, Photographic Services

Division: 2c. seers ce cerscls ae e513 Arthur L. Gaush §

Fred G. Barwick

Mrs. Betty V. Strickler

Charles G. Abbot, Secretary Emeritus

Leonard Carmichael, Secretary
Emeritus

Paul H. Oehser

Alexander Wetmore, Secretary
Emeritus

John A. Graf

Chief,Supply Division «2.4. pots
Chief, Travel Services Office .........
Honorary Research Associates .........

ELonoraryabellowmec-erriem ra «lek iuieyirs

SCIENCE

David Challinor
Helen L. Hayes
Michael R. Huxley
Harold J. Michaelson
Paula E. Ullmann

IMIGEINE GEGIENDY 5 sep oecsbonedsooas
Specialesssistants! 1-9. eles sects

National Museum of Natural History

Director «2 eeehs ie ck oe okies 9
ASSistant Director -oaaaeee eee. 6
Assistant to Director (ADP) ..........
Assistant to Director (Exhibits) .......
Administrative Officers) me -seseeer ee.

Richard S. Cowan
Paul K. Knierim
James F. Mello
Ronald S. Goor?
Mabel A. Byrd
John C. Townsend
Anthropology

Chairman Clifford Evans

Senior Physical Anthropologist ......
Senior Archeologist 22 5622 n-.cs 26s
Senior Ethnologist
Archivist

T. Dale Stewart 8
Waldo R. Wedel
John C. Ewers
Margaret C. Blaker

> Replaced Leonard Pouliot 13 December 1970.
6 Replaced Otis H. Greeson (Retired) 28 February 1971.

7 Appointed 23 August 1970.
8 Retired 28 May 1971.
APPENDIX 4. STAFF OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Latin American Anthropology

ASSOclate: GuULatOL pyaceaciieee cei: «

Old World Anthropology

Gubatortessenes & coed. oheneead
(CUIRETIOTE 5 Sa ae oe Pees iy oe eee

North American Anthropology

Associate Gurator {2-4..500082

Physical Anthropology

(CHTVOTE 0. ot Cio cee ee ee

Museum Specialist. < ..0..5:.0<4 24
Research Associates, Collaborators,
and Affiliated Scientists ........

® Appointed 31 August 1970.

10 Resigned 10 September 1970.

441-283 O- 71-10

Robert M. Laughlin
Clifford Evans
William H. Crocker

Gordon D. Gibson
Saul H. Riesenberg
Gus W. Van Beek
Eugene I. Knez
William B. Trousdale

William W. Fitzhugh 9
William C. Sturtevant
Paul H. Voorhis 1°

J. Lawrence Angel
Donald J. Ortner
Lucile E. St. Hoyme
Douglas H. Ubelaker

Hans-Georg Bandi (Archeology)

W. Montague Cobb (Physical
Anthropology)

T. Aidan Cockburn (Physical
Anthropology)

Henry B. Collins (Archeology)

Wilson Duff (Ethnology)

Roger I. Eddy (Ethnology)

Don D. Fowler (Archeology)

Marcus S. Goldstein (Physical
Anthropology)

Sister Inez Hilger (Ethnology)

C. G. Holland (Archeology)

Neil M. Judd (Archeology)

Richard T. Koritzer (Physical
Anthropology)

Ralph K. Lewis (Archeology)

139

Olga Linares de Sapir (Archeology)

Betty J. Meggers (Archeology)

George S. Metcalf (Archeology)

Philleo Nash (Ethnology)

Walter G. Putschar (Physical
Anthropology)

Victor A. Nunez Regueiro
(Archeology)

Mary Slusser (Archeology)

Wilhelm G. Solheim (Archeology)
140

Research Associates, Collaborators,
and Affiliated Scientists—Continued

Botany
Chairman
Senior Botanisten ace ose ries ae
Senior BOtaniste jose eee

Phanerogams
GUTACOTS see ences siren ieieieioe cms

Associate Curators eee eee

AssistantiGuraton cade aoe eee.

Ferns

Associate:Gurator ene eee

Grasses

Associate Gurator eee eee

Cryptogams

Gurator).5.: Hees ahs 5 A says
Curator | .frarterahs: e 8 ees:
AssociateyGurator 45m eae eon ees

Plant Anatomy

Curator <5 5 ee es aes
Guratore en A eee ee ee.

Research Associates, Collaborators

and Affiliated Scientists1® .........

11 Died 3 March 1971.

12 Effective 9 August 1970.

13 Reassigned 1 July 1970.

14 Reassigned 1 July 1970.

15 Appointed 14 September 1970.

SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1971

T. Dale Stewart (Physical
Anthropology)

Matthew W. Stirling (Archeology)

Robert Stuckenrath (Archeology)

Douglas Taylor (Ethnology)

William J. Tobin (Physical
Anthropology) 11

Theodore A. Wertime (Archeology)

Edwin F. Wilmsen (Archeology)

Edward S. Ayensu
Lyman B. Smith
Conrad V. Morton 1”

John J. Wurdack
Velva Rudd

Wallace R. Ernst

F. Raymond Fosberg 1%
Dan H. Nicolson
Marie-Helene Sachet 14
Stanwyn G. Shetler
Dieter C. Wasshausen

David B. Lellinger
Thomas R. Soderstrom

Harold E. Robinson
Mason E. Hale, Jr.
Arthur L. Dahl ©

Richard H. Eyde
Edward S. Ayensu

W. Andrew Archer (Flowering
Plants)

Chester R. Benjamin (Fungi)

John A. Churchill (Flowering
Plants)

Paul S. Conger (Diatomaceae)

José Cuatrecasas (Flora of Tropical
South America)

James A. Duke (Flora of Panama)

Emily W. Emmart (Plants of Mexico)

16 National fungus collections are curated by Department of Agriculture staff.
APPENDIX 4. STAFF OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Research Associates, Collaborators,

and Affiliated Scientists—Continued

Entomology

(CIMPATITITET CI | 0:4 e Sapieierc oon -e ol aio 6 ois One
Senior Entomologists ../.:.........

Neuropteroids

GTitaAtOTee sais ce 3 ao tae ere a

Lepidoptera and Diptera

ASSOCIateNG@UTATONS <2. 20156 le le meces

Assistant Uraton, sy50 sees ois o sineisie

Coleoptera

ASSOGiates Gutator 2.40 Ne one cee
ASSIStANECGUTAtOR cas cc cures oc 5 a

Hemiptera and Hymenoptera

Associate GUraton. ©... .seseacaeease <

Myriapoda and Arachnida

GTITALO epece er ere c se nie cress Gieke  olehavesenc eee

Research Associates, Collaborators,

and Affiliated Scientists ..........

17 Appointed 31 August 1970.
18 Appointed | July 1970.

Marie L. Farr (Fungi)

14]

Howard S. Gentry (Economic Plants

of Northwestern Mexico)
Charles R. Gunn (Fungi)
William H. Hathaway (Flora of
Central America)
Frederick J. Hermann (North
American Flora)
Robert M. King (Compositae)
Paul L. Lentz (Fungi)
Elbert L. Little (Dendrology)

Alicia Lourteig (Neotropical Botany)

Kittie F. Parker (Compositae)

Julian C. Patino (Flora of Colombia)

Clyde F. Reed (Ferns)

James L. Reveal (Ferns)

Marie L. Solt (Melastomataceae)

William L. Stern (Plant Anatomy)

John A. Stevenson (Fungi)

Edward E. Terrell (Phanerogams)

Francis A.Uecker (Fungi)

Egbert H. Walker (Myrsinaceae,
East Asian Flora)

Paul D. Hurd, Jr.1*
Karl V. Krombein
J. F. Gates Clarke

Oliver S. Flint, Jr.

Donald R. Davis
W. Donald Duckworth
William D. Field

Paul J. Spangler
Terry L. Erwin 18

Richard C. Froeschner
Ralph E. Crabill, Jr.

Charles P. Alexander (Diptera)

William H. Anderson (Coleoptera)

Doris H. Blake (Coleoptera)

Franklin S. Blanton (Diptera)

Frank L. Campbell (Insect
Physiology)
142

Research Associates, Collaborators,
and Affiliated Scientists—Continued

Invertebrate Zoology
Chairman
Senior Zoologists

Crustacea
Curators

Associate Curator
Echinoderms

Curator

Associate Curator

Worms
Curators

Associate Curator
Mollusks
Curator

Associate Curators

Visiting Curator
Research Associates,

and Affiliated Scientists

Collaborators,

19 Died 31 July 1970.
20 Died 18 October 1970.

SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1971

Oscar L. Cartwright (Coleoptera)

K. C. Emerson (Mallophaga)

John G. Franclemont (Lepidoptera)

Frank M. Hull (Diptera)

William L. Jellison (Siphonaptera,
Anoplura)

Harold F. Loomis (Myriapoda)

Carl F. W. Muesebeck

(Hymenoptera)

Thomas E. Snyder (Isoptera) 19

Robert Traub (Siphonaptera)

Raymond B. Manning
Fenner A. Chace, Jr.
Horton H. Hobbs, Jr.
Harald A. Rehder

Thomas E. Bowman
J. Laurens Barnard
Louis S. Kornicker
Roger F. Cressey

David L. Pawson
Klaus Ruetzler

Meredith L. Jones
Marian H. Pettibone
Mary E. Rice

W. Duane Hope

Joseph Rosewater
Joseph P. E. Morrison
Clyde F. E. Roper
Frederick M. Bayer

Willard W. Becklund
(Helminthology) 7°

S. Stillman Berry (Mollusks)

J. Bruce Bredin (Biology)

Isabel C. Canet (Crustacea)

Maybelle H. Chitwood (Worms)

Ailsa M. Clark (Marine
Invertebrates)

Elisabeth Deichmann (Echinoderms)

Mary Gardiner (Echinoderms)
APPENDIX 4. STAFF OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION 143

Research Associates, Collaborators,
and Affiliated Scientists—Continued

Roman Kenk (Worms)

Anthony J. Provenzano, Jr.
(Crustacea)

Waldo L. Schmitt (Marine
Invertebrates)

Frank R. Schwengel (Mollusks)

I. G. Sohn (Crustacea)

Donald F. Squires (Echinoderms)

Gilbert L. Voss (Mollusks)

Mildred S. Wilson (Copepod

Crustacea)
Mineral Sciences
(CINEHITOTET Ty GechasorateISene etc cree Oreo ee Brian H. Mason
GUT AtOI pees cing eotalsitss. «sn ghee George S. Switzer
Meteorites
COTA. PS BO GD Dele eee Eee eae Kurt Fredericksson
ASSOCIATE C@ULATOR es ese nie ee os - Roy S. Clarke, Jr.
Geochemisty oq. jee sat te ne reece Robert F. Fudali
Ghemistsr certo toe eieeie sce ee Eugene Jarosewich
Joseph A. Nelen
Mineralogy
ASSOGIATEMC@UTALON ies: oe ice sre sos Paul E. Desautels
nystallopraphern circs- ose oes + «1 Joel E. Arem 21
Petrology
PASSOGIALeBGUTALON cesses. ee oe = William G. Melson
Research Associates, Collaborators,
and Affiliated Scientists”... 25.077... Howard J. Axon (Meteorites)
Vago F. Buchwald (Meteorites)
Tomas Feininger (Petrology)
Edward P. Henderson (Meteorites)
John B. Jago (Mineralogy)
Peter Leavens (Mineralogy)
Rosser Reeves (Mineralogy)
Thomas E. Simkin (Petrology)
Geoffrey Thompson (Petrology)
Harry Winston (Mineralogy)
Paleobiology
Chainmang yo ee ee see ole suis Porter M. Kier
senior Paleobiologists’:}..¢..22....... G. Arthur Cooper
C. Lewis Gazin 2?
Collections Manager ................ Frederick J. Collier
Invertebrate Paleontology
(CHIRON <1 6bigonboodunsbadn Coon RaoEr Martin A. Buzas

Richard S. Boardman
Alan H. Cheetham
Erle G. Kauffman

21 Appointed 1 July 1970.
22 Retired 31 July 1970.
144

Invertebrate Paleontology—Continued
Curators—Continued

Associate s@uratone .piecctrc eer
Geolovist a2 e eee eee een
Vertebrate Paleontology

@uxvators) 40540 cickas Seo ee rer sso

Associate 1Guraton so asc cee ele cine ce
Paleobotany
Associate) GUratorsmecacer mas cacieee

Sedimentology
Geological Oceanographer ..........
Cutatowmecysery es re oe siete

Research Associates, Collaborators,

and Affiliated Scientists
Invertebrate Paleontology ...........

Paleobotany

Sedimentology

Vertebrate Paleontology of. sare. -\-

Vertebrate Zoology
Chairmanver secre rr errata:

23 Appointed 16 February 1971.

SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1971

Richard Cifelli
Richard M. Benson
Thomas R. Waller
Kenneth M. Towe

Clayton E. Ray
Nicholas Hotton III
Robert J. Emry 23

Walter H. Adey
Leo J. Hickey
Francis M. Hueber

Daniel J. Stanley
Jack W. Pierce

Arthur J. Boucot
Anthony C. Coates

C. Wythe Cooke

J. Thomas Dutro
Robert M. Finks
Mackenzie Gordon, Jr.
Richard E. Grant
John W. Huddle
Ralph W. Imlay
Harry S. Ladd

N. Gary Lane
Kenneth E. Lohman
Sergius H. Mamay
James F. Mello
William A. Oliver, Jr.
Axel A. Olsson

John Pojeta, Jr.
Norman F. Sohl
Margaret Ruth Todd
Wendell P. Woodring
Ellis L. Yochelson
Patricia J. Adey
David Child

Gilbert Kelling
Frederic R. Siegel
Douglas Emlong
Charles A. Reppening
Frank C. Whitmore, Jr.

George E. Watson
APPENDIX 4. STAFF OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Fishes

ROUEMALONS Swatcks Creede hclsce oatohaies aes

Associates (Curator 52.32. crocs hese ss

Reptiles and Amphibians

‘CLOSPAGOI?. G's. 5 1 OAS Bee tO OnOre Brain cern
PNSSISU allt LIT ALOM eocxs we ersio «eis wisicuexe =

Birds

MONE ALO Maer ores cei Sol eis ous has hucaane 8 “es
INSSOGIATe GUTALOM, © ayee conclave das ome

Mammals

Research Associates, Collaborators,

and Affiliated Scientists ..........

Robert H. Gibbs, Jr.
Ernest A. Lachner
Victor G. Springer
Stanley H. Weitzman
William R. Taylor

James A. Peters
George R. Zug

Richard L. Zusi
Paul Slud

Charles O. Handley
Henry W. Setzer
Richard W. Thorington, Jr.

John W. Aldrich (Birds)
Richard C. Banks (Birds)
William Belton (Birds)

James E. Bohlke (Fishes)

145

Robert L. Brownell, Jr. (Mammals)

Leonard Carmichael (Psychology,
Animal Behavior)
Daniel M. Cohen (Fishes)
Bruce B. Collette (Fishes)
George J. Divocky (Birds)
John F. Eisenberg (Mammals)
Robert K. Eenders (Mammals)
Herbert Friedmann (Birds)
Crawford H. Greenewalt (Birds)
Arthur M. Greenhall (Mammals)
Brian A. Harrington (Birds)
Philip S. Humphrey (Birds)
David H. Johnson (Mammals)
Clyde J. Jones (Mammals)
Gwilym S. Jones (Mammals)
E. V. Komarek (Mammals)
Roxie C. Laybourne (Birds)
Richard H. Manville (Mammals)
J. A. J. Meester (Mammals)
Edgardo Mondolfi (Mammals)
Russell E. Mumford (Mammals)
John R. Napier (Mammals)
Storrs L. Olson (Birds)
Dioscoro S. Rabor (Birds)
S. Dillon Ripley (Birds)
Leonard P. Schultz (Fishes)
Frank J. Schwartz (Fishes)
Alexander Wetmore (Birds)
David B. Wingate (Birds)
146 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 197]

National Air and Space Museum

1D Jt fel (0) pane RPO or ica ccs ees inners EN Michael Collins *4

Deputy Director ieee eer Melvin B. Zisfein

Administrative Oficers. sacha eck John Whitelaw

Acting Assistant Director (Aeronautics). | Louis S. Casey

Curator (Aircraft Propulsion) ......... Robert B. Meyer

Assistant Director (Astronautics) ....... Frederick C. Durant III

Assistant Director (Information) ....... Ernest W. Robischon

IANGVISODY, BOATG) acs) fee cla cael ae)s acl: S. Dillon Ripley, Chairman
(ex officio)

Major General Nils O. Ohman, UsAF

Vice Admiral Thomas F. Connolly,
USN

Brigadier General James L. Collins,
USA

Brigadier General H. S. Hill, usmc

Rear Admiral Roderick Y. Edwards,
USCG

Vacancy, NASA

General Gustav Lundquist, FAA

ION OT ALY te ois Bele omc ers cheese ave leeches Olive A. Beech
William E. Hall
Elwood R. Quesada

Astrophysical Observatory

MiTectOne sacar Fred L. Whipple
Assistant Director (Management) ...... Robert V. Bartnik
Assistant Director (Science) ............ Charles A. Lundquist
SGORH Te Malt “Soe dooddabodcovodoncend Kaare Aksnes

Arthur C. Allison
Eugene H. Avrett
Prabhu Bhatnagar
Nathaniel P. Carleton
Frederic Chaffee
Jerome R. Cherniack
Giuseppe Colombo
Allan F. Cook

Alex Dalgarno
Robert J. Davis
James C. DeFelice
William A. Deutschman
Dale F. Dickinson
Giovanni G. Fazio
Darrell Fernald
Edward L. Fireman
Giuseppe Forti

24 Appointed 12 April 1971.
APPENDIX 4. STAFF OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Scientific Staff—Continued

Fred A. Franklin
Edward M. Gaposchkin
Owen Gingerich
Antanas Girnius
Mario D. Grossi
Katherine Haramundanis
Gerald Hawkins
Henry F. Helmken
Paul W. Hodge
Luigi G. Jacchia
Wolfgang Kalkofen
Douglas Kleinmann
Yoshihide Kozai
David Latham
Myron Lecar

Carlton G. Lehr
Martin Levine

A. Edward Lilley
Marvin Litvak
Richard E. McCrosky
Brian G. Marsden
Ursula B. Marvin
George H. Megrue
Donald H. Menzel
Lawrence W. Mertz
Henri E. Mitler

Paul A. Mohr

James Moran

Carl S. Nilsson
Yasushi Nozawa
Robert W. Noyes
Costas Papaliolios
Cecelia H. Payne-Gaposhkin
Michael R. Pearlman
Douglas T. Pitman
Annette Posen
Harrison E. Radford
John Reid

George B. Rybicki
Winfield W. Salisbury
Rudolph E. Schild
Zdenek Sekanina
Chen-Yuan Shao

I. Shapiro

Jack W. Slowey
Richard B. Southworth
Gert Spannagel
Frank Steinbrunn
Shephen E. Strom
Wesley A. Traub
Robert Vessot

147
148 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1971

Scientific Staff—Continued Richard B. Wattson
George Weiffenbach
Trevor C. Weekes
Charles A. Whitney
John A. Wood

Consultants Rises ec eee te ir Robert N. Anthony

John Danziger

Stanley Ross

Robert Stein

Pol Swings

George Veis

Natarajan Visvanathan
HEIORE: ogpoodsorsucd oetbids BsiduCdodON SE Hiram Levy II

G. Jeffrey Taylor
Director, Central Bureau for Satellite

Geodesy Fs sckst cis crm sacs, otapenn Ble agers George Veis
Director, Central Bureau for
Astronomical Telegrams .......... Brian G. Marsden

Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute

DIT COT eiicieeietetst ncpnsca slam Re tcrcnedeyot Martin H. Moynihan
Special Assistant to Director ......... Adela Gomez
Assistant Director (Science) ............ Ira Rubinoff
Administrative | Officer paescc eesti C. Neal McKinney
BiOlOPISES caer cae eco ere er: Robert L. Dressler

Peter W. Glynn

Judith Lang

Egbert Leigh

A. Stanley Rand

Michael H. Robinson

Roberta W. Rubinoff

Neal G. Smith

Henk Wolda
ls@OInY songaoonomonoucn osc UOC OODeD Charles F. Bennett, Jr.

John F. Eisenberg

Carmen Glynn

Carlos Lehmann

Robert H. MacArthur

Giles W. Mead

Ernst Mayr

Barbara Robinson

Patricio Sanchez

W. John Smith

C. C. Soper

Paulo Vanzolini

Martin Young
APPENDIX 4. STAFF OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Radiation Biology Laboratory

DU TE COLO Lic tatess, oyn.ctitie etetets state SRS here sas
Sects tanita IeCtOM: w.;..tciec set nic toee bso
“DATE STIS ORS sae eee a ee

BSSOLOP US Gators sip) anisc2 (a4) 51s 6 oys) ove a sw) Be Sel
BRCENGISG ras 5.55 Sia eee ole arses «2+ <
BMEMEEODOILGPISE 5 ove craps fefeisiare Ssc8s a2 Sn 0,05
SSUCIETITC Ae onibcee (a cocdne dese eee
SEMSCISE 52:5) PO ahs oA skis Rea =. «
Brant, Physiologists ..° jose). 22 G2.

William H. Klein

Walter A. Shropshire, Jr.

David L. Correll
Maurice M. Margulies
Robert L. Weintraub
Homer T. Hopkins
Elisabeth Gantt
Andrew W. Snope
Robert Stuckenrath
James Mielke
Bernard Goldberg
John Edwards

Victor B. Elstad
Rebecca Gettens
Leonard Price

National Zoological Park

Special Assistant to the Director .......
Administrative Officer ..........:....-
Captain, Police Division ..........:...
Head, Planning and Design Office......
Head, Information and Education Office
murator Wivision of Birds 4.3. 4-kasse-
Curator, Division of Small Mammals

ANG ERM ATES HG oe = ceoucls 6 Soe s/ays’e 5
Curator, Division of Reptiles ..........
Resident Scientist, Division of

SCEMPIIGINESEATCH Gaieene ones oe
Veterinarian, Division of Animal

IBGE 0 2 cee, 5 aD IC ree ne oe
Pathologist, Division of Pathology .....
Chief, Operations and Maintenance

ME pansMenty eeew. tees - cicstees sce
Head, Automotive Division ...........
mead. Grounds Division’ ./5.....:.:.--
Head, Maintenance Division ..........
Head, Mechanical Division ............
Read eabor Division . 22.54 o.oo
masociates in Ecology ......:...--..---

RBESCATCIMVASSOCIALES) ..sc.o.. os ces ssctsde te

Theodore H. Reed
John Perry

Warren J. Iliff

Joseph J. McGarry
Anthony J. Kadlubowski
Norman C, Melun

Sybil E. Hamlet

Sam E. Weeks

Harold J. Egoscue
Jaren G. Horsley

John F. Eisenberg

Clinton W. Gray
Robert M. Sauer

James H. McAllister
Jesse Batts

John Monday
Robert Ogilvie
Theodore Runyan
Carl F. Jackson

S. Dillon Ripley
Lee M. Talbot

Jean Delacour
Gerald G. Montgomery
George McKay
Devra G. Kleiman
Bernard C. Zook

149
150

Collaborators

SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1971

F. M. Garner
Leonard J. Goss
Carlton M. Herman
Peul Leyhausen
Charles R. Schroeder

Office of Environmental Sciences

DinectOn eect. terete lee eee.
Ecology Program
1D yi@erel Kor rea Meebo cron d 6.6. cb ob:b. boone
Senior Scientist wm oie fertrreel ore
Resident Ecologist
Wisitin pyr cOlogis timer rire errata
Oceanography and Limnology Program
IIIA! wagon eon Oc.d adh op dino woe
Director, Mediterranean Marine
Sorting Centers ccc reser
Director, Smithsonian Oceanographic
Sorting Center
Oceanorraphetanccerrre terrier
Chesapeake Bay Center for Environ-
mental Studies, Director ..........
Center for Short-Lived Phenomena
Director

I. Eugene Wallen
Dale W. Jenkins
Helmut K. Buechner
Lee M. Talbot ?°
Clifford O. Berg 26
Robert P. Higgins

William P. Davis

H. Adair Fehlmann
Dail W. Brown

Francis S. L. Williamson

Robert Citron

Center for the Study of Man

ANG HI IDMKECIOY Gossiidospooncaocdoaccs
Program Coordinator

Sol Tax
Sam Stanley

Science Information Exchange

DINE GEOR, ceeA sic e.e re is Tae ndece ose sees
Deputy DirectOr . ope Mee ae <<
Associate Directors
Wifey Sciences! 2/4 se clecseepoar pales
Physical Sciences
Data Processing
Special Assistant
Executive OMicen s.)<ccuscheelsi cece eee
Administrative Officer
Life Sciences Division
Chief

Monroe E, Freeman
David F. Hersey

Willis R. Foster
Frank J. Kreysa
Martin Snyderman
Richard C. Reeser
V. P. Verfuerth
Evelyn M. Roll

Willis R. Foster
Charlotte M. Damron

25 On leave to Council for Environmental Quality during FY 1971.

26 Served 1 October 1970 to 31 May 1971.
APPENDIX 4. STAFF OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Life Sciences Division—Continued

Chief, Medical Sciences Branch ...... Faith F. Stephan
Chief, Biological Sciences Branch..... James R. Wheatley, Jr.
Chief, Agricultural Sciences Branch.. William T. Carlson
Chief, Behavioral Sciences Branch.... | Rhoda Stolper
Chief, Social Sciences and Community

ProrEams Branch) 7-20 a5,~ niet. « Barbara F. Lundquist

Physical Sciences Division

RR eaten ea fe) = tie fetag es see os Frank J. Kreysa
Chief, Chemistry Branch ............ Samuel Liebman
Chief, Earth Sciences Branch ........ Joseph P. Riva, Jr.
Chief, Electronics Branch ........... John J. Park
Chief, Engineering Branch .......... Inder Jit Bhambri
Chief, Materials Branch ............ William H. Payne
Chief, Physics and Mathematics

BS ATIC ate yay cra yeh slo: oe (isis sane «tsicieloneia os Robert Summers

Data Processing Division

OTLIVLELET 2g So Sas Sa Martin Snyderman
MPCRIUMEV CIEE Soja reo wis.) s cicisieles «ies « Bernard L. Hunt
ChiehpRegistny, Branch ;..........-- Angelo Piccillo
Chief Data Edit Branch ..-...:..... Mary Rumreich
Chief, Report Services Branch ....... Olympia Merritt
Chief, Systems and Programming

IBTANICH Miter cieters Cire be sersee took + Robert A. Kline
Chief, Computer Operations Branch. . Paul Gallucci

HIsTorY AND ART

BESISEAMIE SCCTELALY « .)\oardays ss le Garrels «+ - Charles Blitzer
LUG DES? ceo SSeS eect Cesar oem are Richard Grove

The National Museum of History and Technology

MITC CLOT or tie ies cis oe ae Se es ches eagyniaie Daniel J. Boorstin
SROHSE EME IDITCCEOR acai. 1s ssi setae etre 5.0.8 Silvio A. Bedini
Assistant Director for Administration... | Robert G. Tillotson
Special Assistant to the Director ....... Ladd E. Hamilton
Administrative Officer .........% coe Virginia Beets
Senior Scientific Scholar .............. Robert P. Multhauf
Special Assistant (Bicentennial

lAMMINE 3. ee oes oh atthe eco! « John J. Slocum
Principal Investigator (Computer

EVISEOEY), cicia's 2. ertae eee ee Bis ane Henry S. Tropp 7“
BMS DIAGN 2.2 oc ste bees Ee. AEE shies c Peter C. Marzio

Harold K. Skramstad, Jr.28
Applied Arts
MOHTANETIV ATIVE is 555 Sy cys SET, AIA ee Carl H. Scheele

*7 Appointed 21 April 1971.
28 Appointed 21 February 1971.

151
152

Graphic Arts and Photography

Gurator. ..:<.4.02/52.< BAe eee
Associate Guratoretiece ee eee.
Assistant) Curatonmese eee eee.)

Numismatics

Curators ssc es See erarokeiene eas
Gurator . 5.4 Soe een ee tose se

Postal History

Curator coo Se 5ocds re a a al's
Associate: Curator eee eee one oe

Textiles

G@irator’ «4 ee ns ee kee ere his
GuTratonm oe ee eee ates
HOnGlatWe fea 22 = visielen aie = selene

Cultural History

(Glotiini hols ei eee Oo ceo Goan

Costume and Furnishings

IAssociatenG@uraton earner oe:
Assistant) Guratons et coe: eae oe ee =

Ethnic and Western Cultural History

CUD O PAY WO) Caste ig iy eee ST eS eee ee oor CS
Guiraton’. Cie 6. Oran cia sie

Musical Instruments

Associate Guraton ose ee eee cies exer
Nssociate! Curatom scene ert

Preindustrial History

Gurators se es Soe oe Ome ears
Associate Curator =e e eee
IBLNOCINY Gscnodoacausocddosondidcpans

Industries

Ghairmian ers. j6ck cela ee eon >

Agriculture and Mining

Curator es were ee ein rotetetohe ore
Associate” Gurator © seus oh ee

Ceramics and Glass

Gurator< . +. s Soest eee oe os
Gurator so. 2s ac ss eee oe babe ear.

Manufacturing

GUratOn fais cine ee eae Sol otto.

Transportation

Curator oan notions eco te re ereho
Curator oe ca ee ee teccnerare niener ser

SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1971

Eugene Ostroft
Elizabeth M. Harris
David E. Haberstich

Vladimir Clain-Stefanelli
Elvira Clain-Stefanelli

Carl H. Scheele
Reidar Norby

Grace R. Cooper

Rita J. Adrosko

Emery May Norweb (Numismatics)
R. Henry Norweb (Numismatics)

C. Malcom Watkins

Rodris C. Roth
Claudia B. Kidwell

Richard E. Ahlborn
C. Malcolm Watkins

John T. Fesperman
Cynthia A. Hoover

C. Malcolm Watkins

Anne C. Golovin

Mrs. Arthur M. Greenwood

David W. Hinshaw

Edward B. Jelks

Anne W. Murray (Curator
Emeritus, Costume)

Ivor Noé] Hume

Joan Pearson Watkins

John H. White, Jr.

John 'T. Schlebecker
John N. Hoffman

Paul V. Gardner
J. Jefferson Miller IT

Hans Syz (Ceramics)
Philip W. Bishop
John H. White, Jr.
Melvin H. Jackson
APPENDIX 4. STAFF OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION 153

BAeIMOVALY 0 y--sPoerrsels ore is ioierorcie yetceete aloe Peter B. Bell
Howard I. Chapelle (Historian
Emeritus)

National and Military History

CURTIN OT AN 4 Aas an nS on Edgar M. Howell
Historic Archeology

COOURPLWCOTE So aa Sa Mendel L. Peterson
Military History

AGU ATOM Rack esi 4c het nares eee a oe Edgar M. Howell

ASSOCIATE GUTALOn Caos cite hoes eee Craddock R. Goins, Jr.
Naval History

SUTALOL Peeks Sele see eine ee Ales ws Philip K. Lundeberg

CHUTES? |. oS ieee ue. else ees ae Harold D. Langley
Political History

RIPE ALOT veae eM tmle Se he Rees Margaret B. Klapthor

Associate (Guraton 6 2208. oS. 6. Herbert R. Collins
SUMED VA eho is 3a « GA. CTL ss William Rea Furlong (Flag History)
Science and Technology

SOTIAPEMMIATIGES SAE te cfs cit ooakoe eats Mee ol Bernard S. Finn
Electricity and Nuclear Energy

PUPAE AINIE pele (x33 6 x aise cles the, RNS sos Bernard S. Finn

Curator (Mathematics). ../.6.5.0..... Uta C. Merzbach
Mechanical and Civil Engineering

CHUeA Oye 4.3 Rae ee aor Robert M. Vogel

SECTS | 2 Ac ee Edwin A. Battison

Mr aiear CAPs ee G2. SEL Otto Mayr
Medical Sciences

SSHCALOH NN Ie SEE PSUS ak oes Sami Hamarneh

PSSOCIALE MEUTALOE SS. 6 SSeS. Audrey B. Davis
Physical Sciences

PssUciate MCurators May. EE a ws Deborah J. Warner

Rea CER ED Ir. 5. SEA 5 eo aes od MA oo Walter F. Cannon

mNactate Curators) 0 SSDS. 5 Jon B. Eklund
OT A ee Anthony R. Michaelis (Scientific

Instruments)

Derek J. De Solla Price
(Scientific Instruments)

Archives of American Art

SE re William E. Woolfenden

Deputy Director-Archivist ............. Garnett McCoy

Administrative Assistant .............. Lea Feinstein

Curator of Manuscripts ............... Arthur J. Breton

Assistant Curator of Manuscripts ...... Elsie F. Freivogel

ME AMPRITCCEOES |...) ee Se Se SE Butler Coleman (New York)
Robert Brown (Northeast)

meid Researchers eas SN... F. Ivor D. Avellino (New York)

Sylvia Loomis (Southwest)
154

ALEUSTCES os secs ester

Advisory Committee

SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1971

Russell Lynes, President

Howard W. Lipham, Vice President

Harold O. Love, Vice President

Mrs. Otto L. Spaeth, Vice President

Stanford C. Stoddard,
Secretary- Treasurer

Harry Baldwin

Irving F. Burton

Edmond duPont

Joseph H. Hirshhorn

James Humphry II

Miss Milka Iconomoft

Eric Larrabee

Robert L. McNeil, Jr.

Abraham Melamed

Mrs. E. Bliss Parkinson

Henry Pearlman

Mrs. Dana M. Raymond

Mrs. William L. Richards

E. P. Richardson

Chapin Riley

Girard L. Spencer

Edward M. M. Warburg

James Wineman

Willis F. Woods

S. Dillon Ripley, ex officio

Charles Blitzer, ex officio

Lawrence A. Fleischman, Honorary

Mrs. Edsel B. Ford, Honorary

James Humphry III, Chairman

Milton O. Brown

Lloyd Goodrich

Eugene C. Goossen

Harry D. M. Grier

James J. Heslin

John Howat

Bernard Karpel

Edgar Kaufmann, Jr.

John A. Kouwenhoven

Karl Kup

Eric Larrabee

Abram Lerner

A. Hyatt Mayor

J. T. Rankin

Daniel J. Reed

Charles van Ravenswaay

Marvin S. Sadik

Joshua C. Taylor

William B. Walker

Richard P. Wunder
APPENDIX 4. STAFF OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Freer Gallery of Art

WEMEEEERMT aS c do c' t oe tees ete o's vial eis John A. Pope
PassistamtmOIrectOr < fesse. cee ses seri Harold P. Stern
cimator, Chinese"ATt\. 5.5.22... es es Thomas Lawton
Assistant Curator, Chinese Art ........ Hin-cheung Lovell
Assistant Curator, Near Eastern Art.... Esin Atil
Head Conservator, Technical

MEAINDEALOIN etter esa. ce wie Se raie ae Si0,% W. Thomas Chase
Research Consultant, Technical

TEMRIRAEOEN, PACS CART f0e)2\s\~'elavere vets. cs. ore Rutherford J. Gettens
Research Assistant, Far Eastern

COMMICS  ..0geceoraousoroameeDaee Josephine H. Knapp
Research Assistant, Herzfeld Archives... | Joseph M. Upton
Elonorary Associates ~......-:.2-+----- Richard Edwards

Calvin French

National Collection of Fine Arts

PUERCO Me tepey sofa) overiak ome Si orays) 9 core chet sys Joshua C. Taylor
ACNE IDISCIOP g0oconcococn0oubEeo- Robert Tyler Davis
mciministrative (OMIGEr 40). )-% oes: = George W. Riggs
Curator, Contemporary Painting and

SLUTS ee oe ee Gene ee aes Adelyn D. Breeskin
Associate Curator, 18th- and 19th-

Century Painting and Sculpture.... William H. Truettner
Curator, Prints and Drawings ......... Janet A. Flint
Curator, Exhibition and Design ....... Harry Lowe
Administrator, Renwick Gallery ....... Lloyd E. Herman
SGUTATOTOL HGUCAtIONY 52.5.5 5.046540) 04040 > Darrel L. Sewell
coordinator of Research .............- Lois M. Fink
Coordinator, Bicentennial Inventory

OLeAMerican! Paintings)... css - Abigail Booth
Acting Chief, Smithsonian Institution

Traveling Exhibition Service ...... Eileen Rose
Chief, International Art Program ..... Lois A. Bingham
Head, Conservation Laboratory,

INIGHVAS/INIDG sere ta a tovedo/ rin s7ai ee oie eee S Charles H. Olin
BREDISUIA rere se so nes es 03 ne In Elisabeth Strassmann
Editor, Office of Publication ........... Georgia M. Rhoades
Head Librarian, NCFA/NPG ............ William B. Walker
uD lIG yAttairs: OMCeL os oe. oi. crs co es Benjamin Ruhe
Supervisory Photographer, NcFA/NPG... Lowell A. Kenyon
National Collection of Fine Arts

KC OMMATISSIONN este oe ae ean nies Thomas C. Howe, Chairman

H. Page Cross, Vice Chairman
S. Dillon Ripley, Secretary
Leonard Baskin

William A. M. Burden

David E. Finley

441-283 O- 71-11

155
156 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1971

National Collection of Fine
Arts Commission—Continued Martin Friedman

Lloyd Goodrich
Walker Hancock
Bartlett H. Hayes, Jr.
August Heckscher
Wilmarth S. Lewis
Henry P. McIlhenny
Robert Motherwell
Ogden M. Pleissner
Charles H. Sawyer
Mrs. Otto L. Spaeth
George B. Tatum
Otto Wittmann

Honorary, Membersiieri1y-6 7 tates i Alexander Wetmore
Leonard Carmichael
Gilmore D. Clarke
Paul Mellon
Stow Wengenroth
Andrew Wyeth

National Portrait Galley

IDMRecKore gaan sop aswaoaudeo Aibnoawoeo coe Marvin S. Sadik
Assistant to) the Director joe a eee Douglas E. Evelyn
ISUCHOWEIN men onedive Boidcl cbc dled cullcouc Beverly J. Cox
(CUI? “Aaah doce sede wkecdek doles ot Robert G. Stewart
Assistant) C@uratony.) 1 clr ea Monroe Fabian
Keeper of the Catalopue oo cre cna. = +l Wilford P. Cole
Senior Research Assistant ............. Mona Dearborn
Curatoriof Education ecco cle ere James R. Vivian III 29
Assistant Curator of Education ........ Robert N. Works 3°
Chief, Exhibits Department ...7....... James J. Shelton #1
Assistant Chief, Exhibits Department... J. Michael Carrigan *?
Eibrarian (NEG-NGEA)) fo5 5.0 cre epee William B. Walker
Conservator (NPGNGFA) 5.02. ose Charles H. Olin
INGuiomie pd aocgboosanocetccoouAnsocec Jon D. Freshour

NPG) Commissions John Nicholas Brown, Chairman

Whitfield J. Bell, Jr.
Catherine Drinker Bowen
Lewis Deschler

David E. Finley
Wilmarth S. Lewis

Edgar P. Richardson

29 Appointed 17 August 1970.
30 Appointed 17 August 1970.
31 Appointed 19 January 1970.
32 Appointed 3 January 1971.
APPENDIX 4. STAFF OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION 157

NPG Commission—Continued Andrew Oliver
Jules D. Prown
EBON CLOWNS EAN He LI BTRI Chief Justice of the United States

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution
Director, National Gallery of Art

Joseph H. Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden

[DIGI a’ 6.6: on Oe IO eG a eaters Abram Lerner
muministrative Officer .......5........ Joseph Sefekar

PASSOCIALE MC UTALOL, 4c)2/10-4 «5 santos eid Cynthia Jaffee McCabe
SPSSISEANCRCGUTALOT (5.00. 600) Sees sets Inez Garson

RAMSDEAATN DPT 35:5 RBH SE sets bao os Frances R. Weitzenhoffer
Pam RESIStDAT \.. .jchiatisiel. .'f auiss ne. « Sandra L. Pearson
PSSOGIAate! INECIStTATSiiscie)s2)-. 90 eeMicials «i « James J. Elias

Frank B. Gettings

Cooper-Hewitt Museum of Decorative Arts and Design

PDTRECLOLA 5 <2) <5 0 oreo eo cree, Seta sae ase Lisa Suter Taylor

A IEC (0 12 (0) a a Christian Rohlfing
sCuTatOn/OL MEXtILES| co. - accu cers aciewie ee Alice Baldwin Beer
Curator of Drawings and Prints ....... Elaine Evans Dee
Associate Curator of Decorative Arts.... | Janet Thorpe

area CGT AM Cee te coe s) sje shah pect)» ale hiejataie es < Edith Adams
REISER crs ceioisia< Scehan SS eis eee- SS nyt Mary F. Blackwelder

National Armed Forces Museum Advisory Board

IDIRREC OTE sae ceeso Ono ls.0 Sigs Sinee cn ch eee John H. Magruder III
masistant Director -Figeeret. I SMene. .. James S. Hutchins
maministrative Officer ..i25:2 nce... Miriam H. Uretz

RUMICEEIOMIS Gs loss 5 501s loi 6 sete ensce ¥ Soarsialbiers ons John M. Elliott

SAMOA). 0x Sohn as ce eee ee eld eee James J. Stokesberry

BRCEISETAT tts ch Asit. 2. .f2\j..' se MOR eee Lorene B. Mayo

EVaVISOry™ BOAT. e. PROS ok The Honorable John Nicholas

Brown, Chairman

The Honorable Earl Warren

Secretary of Army

Secretary of Navy

Secretary of Air Force

Leiutenant General Milton G. Baker,
Retired

Robert C. Baker

The Honorable Alexander P.
Butterfield

William H. Perkins, Jr.
158 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1971

Advisory Board—Continued
ldse (ING) GonboosGeeosoauanouooGUdUR Secretary of Defense
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution

Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars

DiveCtOR dee 2 rn AeA Dated tere ca otoreek Benjamin H. Read
Deputy Director ......-.......-...-++- Albert Meisel

Joseph Henry Papers

INGhOIe sgagdnogousncsnbonououbonbooec Nathan Reingold
INSET E A OIOLE Gobo awse dso hedoson o000 Arthur P. Molella
SHAE Shore biny aconccoeoheopomcoapronc James M. Hobbins

Office of American Studies

IDNA Gos deccpbuosodoquuoumesOHo ODT Wilcomb E. Washburn
Specialist in American Studies ......... Harold K. Skramstad

Office of Academic Studies

Executive: Officer! a... cctools Edward S. Davidson
Program. Officer 27: cee eer = =: Gretchen Gayle

Smithsonian Institution Archives

JATCHIVISE coc 5 teehee ee cee Ses Richard H. Lytle
Assistant, ATrchivishuncmeaccir ook): Donald Danuloft
Assistant Arehivist, sisectittreerrtscr James Steed

Office of Seminars

DITECtOr ae ae eee reer Wilton S. Dillon
Administrative Assistant... -. 2-5-1 - Dorothy Richardson
Conference Specialise™.- e-em - Stephany Knight
Assistant o.com erie ier Frances Miller

SPECIAL MusSEUM PROGRAMS

Director General of Museums ......... Frank A. Taylor 8

33 Retired 23 January 1971.
APPENDIX 4. STAFF OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION 159

Office of Museum Programs

MITRE CLOT race oie 8.8 hd.5 5 ds Geieivaps dudes: aes Peter C. Welsh
Assistant tothe DirectOm ...6c..055-.. Katherine Goldman
PMESCARGIMEASSIStAINE a s)ci- cree els scleiee @\s Jean H. Eisenberg
BRESEATCMPASSOCIALE, <j ceric oe cu mee > es Frank A. Taylor

Office of Exhibits Programs

_ PPEMDR . SBR AS Rc eee John E. Anglim

De ew) IDEN Go ooo ob boouccuncb ode James A. Mahoney
DED ULY MM INECCLOL T-tree eels sclera esis = crs Benjamin W. Lawless
RGHICITORIDESIOM. 4, s2yn cen se sls erate es a iore Richard S. Virgo
assistantechielot Design! 7-1. 5 2)... William F. Haase
eMieteOL PE TOGUGHOM: 6% ries). icism 22 coke ois Harry T. Hart
Assistant Chief of Production ......... Eugene F. Behlen

Exnibits labels Editor sc. e so ce 6 Constance Minkin

Conservation-Analytical Laboratory

SIRIENE 66.6 cin Grote ance torn RNS Redon Robert M. Organ
ESCALGIM CHEMISE =. c.15 oe wie lorie ove reels Jacqueline S. Olin
Office of the Registrar
LRGRISTIE. gos Bigo SION O Oe CLs Ge Oma cei Helena M. Weiss
SESVISEAME IRESISETAT 5 ...0)0 0:5 sa aiden + snows William P. Haynes

Smithsonian Institution Libraries

mrtector OF Libraries n3h<Su dss cek - =: Russell Shank
Special Assistant to the Director of
Libraries for Science Programs .... Jean C. Smith
Bibliographer in the History of
SCIENCE sans as sige eure a eatae ae Jack S. Goodwin
Library of Congress Liaison Librarian Ruth E. Blanchard
Assistant to the Director ............ Dan O. Clemmer, Jr.34
Assistant Director of Libraries ........ Mary A. Huffer
Assistant to the Assistant Director ... Peter A’ |Geigers>
Administrative, Librarian ..-....-...-.- Thomas L. Wilding
Administrative Assistant ............ Mary C. Quinn

34 Appointed 12 July 1970.
8° Appointed 8 September 1970.
160

Acquisitions Division
(CS ee amas camo ere mono cOaoadGaODoGe
Assistants Giie fener craeietreterc
Sentalspbibranian eyecare
Gift and Exchange Librarian ........
Special Assistant assigned to
Acquisitions
Catalog Division
Chief

General Reference Service Division
Chief
‘Assistant Ghief€ \....4. gave eiaeeiaoe
Reference: Librarian! 23-2. a.)

Branch Librarians

Cooper-Hewitt Museum of Decorative
AS BUG! IDES Sao oeo6 occ aogoccdT

Department of Botany ............--

Breer Gallery Of Art 7 ieee: crl- merit

Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture
Garden

National Collection of Fine Arts and
National Portrait Gallery .........

National Museum of History and
Mechnology —.ya-. es tee ee tee

Smithsonian Astrophysical
Observatory een ecb

Smithsonian Tropical Research
RU CSCNITS. Oi slamusks Oe OdERS cd bie cet
Woodrow Wilson International

Genter for Scholars#e. ae i

Branch Library Reference Staff

National Museum of History and
Mechnolocy eeeeeee rere reer

National Collection of Fine Arts and
National Portrait Gallery .........

36 Appointed 23 August 1970.
87 Appointed 12 July 1970.

38 Resigned 6 March 1971.

89 Appointed 18 April 1971.
40 Resigned 29 May 1971.

41 Appointed 26 April 1971.
42 Retired 29 May 1971.

SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1971

L. Frances Jones
Mildred D. Raitt
Edna S. Suber

Mary Clare Cahill %6

Mary L. Horgan
Vija L. Karklins
Bertha S. Sohn
Angeline D. Ashford
Charles H. King
Helen S. Nordberg 37
Cynthia P. Rupp *8
Margaret A. Sealor
Carol L. Wohlford °9
Jack F. Marquardt

A. James Spohn
Sue Y. Chen 4°

Edith E. Adams
Ruth F. Schallert
Priscilla P. Smith
Anna M. Brooke #!
William B. Walker
Frank A. Pietropaoli
Joyce M. Rey

Alcira Mejia

Mary Anglemeyer

Charles G. Berger

Aleita A. Hogenson 47
APPENDIX 4. STAFF OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

International Exchange Service

UIRS CITES eS Se et
PUSSIStant sDIFECtOE Teeter cee aes os

Pusiic SERVICE AND INFORMATION ACTIVITIES

BSEMINtAMIL SELTCEALY 9.2 ee ccc ics c' oe ow
Weputy, Assistant, Secretary -..°-.3.----
SPECIAIPASSISCANE, ccmit-ls ciel). oles -11- =

Jeremiah A. Collins
John E. Estes

William W. Warner
Robert W. Mason
Julian T. Euell

Smithsonian Associates

Eroprai sDIneCtOn =... 2-6-2 sss,
STISIMESS MIAN AGED 2.1 oco5e os sn loisicte wale ais
Specialvivents Assistant sis: 1.0. oe. -
subscription Assistant’ +2. +). 52.552%....

Susan Hamilton
Marlin C. Johnson
Carolyn Amundson
Carolyn A. Hecker

Office of Public Affairs

BYTE CLO Gare atest ssc evs. rote ate tee
Special Assistant to the Director .......
News
HUAI OMSIMUEIDSOMIAN 6 oe os eines ene
Motions bicture Wits... 2062. ca nms
MD LIGATIONS: .-..) aeude Sa Chive chy: wate Sir
Manager, Community Directory
OfMINTEKEStS a= sSius, bse Op eres e ieee

Frederic M. Phillips
Jewell S. Dulaney
Mary M. Krug
Cynthia Helms
John O’Toole
William O. Craig

Alicia R. Fisher

Office of International Activities

LSCION iaurecenica lemme et ae SUS an Ur
AGHINS 1D NieeOTe Jems ae poe eomoo aoa seer c
ASIOMINE IDITACO IP ooovne so 10 oe aDee
Foreign Currency Program
ITE CEON o tres, psiel orm 8 Sis a8 oho isin Sasso
Deen? IDM Aeaadsoec son snes Te
ETOP T ATMS ONICCT. a ov srscie: esepegoher ie sises' eke
Grants Technical Assistants .........

Administrative Assistant -.........:...<

43 Transferred 11 January 1971.
44 Appointed 11 January 1971.

# Transferred 1] January 1971.
46 Appointed 16 February 1971.
47 Transferred 1] January 1971.

David Challinor 4%
Kennedy B. Schmertz #
Michael Huxley *°

Kennedy B. Schmertz
Kenneth D. Whitehead
Richard T. Conroy
Betty J. Wingfield
Harriette Hughes #
Paula Ullman 4
162 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1971

Division of Performing Arts

Director s.0n-- eowseeeh peri oe > James R. Morris
Deputy Director 27. . «peta. ee Richard P. Lusher
Director, Festival of American Folklife... | Ralph C. Rinzler
Administrator, Festival of American

JNO) tS ¢ Sc akebicho g Gia oie 6 ich a 2.080 IIo Carol Fraser
OperationssOMmicen Mees soe eee tel Ruri Kesa Sakai
Planning Oficer {eae aoe serie: Marian A. Hope
Indian PTOSRAMS, o-oo ler ye tase <s Clydia D. Nahwooksy
Acting Director, Touring Performances. Mary E. Carrington
Manager box Office mae cnee sce ose Harry Bagdasian
House Manager, Puppet Theatre ...... Sue Hockenberry

Smithsonian Museum Shops

AGEING SD INCCtOL yeep ena John E. Skuce
Administrative: Officeni +t. ua 1 Martha L. Wilson
Sales (Manager waccc. assays sc sse en <cise Lillian R. Cutler
Books Shops Managers= eee ace Florence R. Lloyd

Belmont Conference Center

DiTectOn es J oe es eee ere en oe Osis Joanne S. Baker

Anacostia Neighborhood Museum

DINE CLOL re ese ene reer o eee er John R. Kinard
ASSISCAME DINECLOL tote n hye tele cia asc) 15 ol Zora B. Martin
Research and Design Coordinator ...... Larry Erskine Thomas
EXIibitws PECial is timceseyene me tteerere oat e) sey James E. Mayo
Program Analyst, Center for Anacostia

Studies! Wesneintisomtse ars sistas ceisicis John F. Bradshaw
Assistant to the Director for Special

PYOJCCUS rc Piste scr Kom ot so oes Balcha Fellows

Smithsonian (magazine)

GifOT) seo) ay oh eer nea oo eS ons A Edward K. Thompson

Members, Board of Editors ............ Ralph Backlund
Grayce P. Northcross
James K. Page, Jr.48
Edwards Park

General@iManagersnrt ery tel ciel i Joseph Bonsignore

48 Effective 26 October 1970.
APPENDIX 4. STAFF OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

muvertisine ‘Director: ..)0.2..0.... .... Thomas H. Black
Circulation-Promotion Director ....... Anne Keating

Smithsonian Institution Press

SRT? SE Gage oe etae eee Pet eiiee ae Gordon Hubel #9
EAM AP IME RNG TLOR. oc.2r-is(o.0-21 2.2 \ctwisi-e-sio sis Roger Pineau
MAPEE PCSISTIOT oes. ccs ors ns eee ® Stephen Kraft
Promotion Manager. 5. .c.. 2.25... 6. Maureen R. Jacoby
MONIES NIAMARED oo. 555. oS Soe ss ewe 8's Eileen M. McCarthy
Series Production Manager ............ Charles L. Shaffer
_EULIIAO TES 53 SO ie rer ne Mary Frances Bell

Ernest E. Biebighauser

Louise J. Heskett

Joan B. Horn

Mary M. Ingraham

John S. Lea

Nancy L. Powars

Albert L. Ruffin, Jr.

Jane W. Sieverts
VATE PUCECON Fe pertcele ois fps) eu aie eies mpc lis Hope G. Pantell °°
MES IP TICUS Mer fonet skein, scent nl susie cer eioier see 3) Crimilda Pontes

Elizabeth Sur

Reading Is Fundamental

EXE CUELV EMD ITECEOT 5 cx yecs ec ioxs eo eres cis alee Jerrold Sandler
PASSIStAME MID INCCLOL ec cmccie de ae cicee aici: Barbara B. Atkinson

Division of Elementary and Secondary Education

ENCHINGRMVIEECEOT cid tee oe oe le the sme eo oe John W. Bingham °!

SCalPASSOGIATES cc aes oe cls cue sees David Estabrook (Technology)

Jane Farmer (Art History)

Robert Harding (History)

Samuel Rizzetta (Biology)
Coordinator, Volunteer Programs ...... Joan C. Madden

National Gallery of Art

Board Of Lrustees: .. 22230.0% dae. The Chief Justice of the United
States, Warren G. Burger,

Chairman

49 Appointed 1 November 1970.
50 Effective 16 April 1971.
51 Effective 15 February 1971.

163
164

Board of Trustees—Continued

General-rustees’ 22.55 neni wipes susie ae

PresiGemte wcrc tree eaeae Nea eee eee ere
WicemPresid ent \s.ncrasicoais serene eke cs
DINE CHOI Es caceuee warty oases eye orepea Sis aeC SUE
Secretary and General Counsel.........
ASSIStatiey DITECtOLY ce cuaeie a x5 qoute re io
Treasurer

AdiimMistratOrre ios neha eon sre
Senior Curator and Curator of

Amentcan? PaimtIine emcee oc
Blanning(Consultamt) sy. = oe)eepeseiaiae oi
Construction) Manager <2 57 cy-c koe iat
Assistant to the Administrator,

Personnel and Administration .....
Assistant to the Administrator,

EXtENSIONASGLVICES eee eiisierieiee
Assistant to the Director, Music .......
ASSIStaniC mmreaSUTet as saci cep mente tee
Assistant to the Administrator,

Scientific and) echnical -22.4--.5-
Curator of Exhibitions and Loans......
Curator (of  Paimtin ese oy py eyusy sete
I MGbro ee ae os Gomer eo oe ete oes Poe
Gurator-of Education. ova eee oe
Research Curator cern

SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1971

The Secretary of State, William P.
Rogers

The Secretary of the Treasury,
John M. Connally

The Secretary of the Smithsonian
Institution, S. Dillon Ripley,
ex officio

Paul Mellon

John Hay Whitney

Dr. Franklin D. Murphy

Lessing J. Rosenwald

Stoddard M. Stevens

Paul Mellon

John Hay Whitney

J. Carter Brown

E. James Adams

Charles Parkhurst

Lloyd D. Hayes

Joseph G. English

William P. Campbell
David W. Scott
Robert C. Engle

Charles B. Walstrom

W. Howard Adams
Richard Bales
James W. Woodard

Sterling P. Eagleton
Grose Evans

H. Lester Cooke
Theodore S. Amussen
Margaret Bouton
Konrad Oberhuber

John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts

Chairman te ae ee
Vice Chainmen)...05. 4. cesses

General. Gounsellyc ratte or tense
Secretary
Treasurer

Deputy General Director and
Assistant Secretary-Treasurer ......
MusicuDinectont tregeseracc trace ile

Roger L. Stevens
Robert O. Anderson
Harry C. McPherson, Jr.
Charles H. Percy

Ralph E. Becker

K. LeMoyne Billings
Robert G. Baker
William McC. Blair, Jr.

Philip J. Mullin
Julius Rudel
APPENDIX 4. STAFF OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Artistic Administrator ..........
General Manager of Theaters

Director of Development

Director of Education ..-.......
Director of Publicity and Promotion....
Assistant (lreasurers ..<.<...+-.-

Executive Director for Engineering ....
Project Manager -.....). <0...
Honorary Chairmen’ -...--....--

iereasuren Emeritus’... ...0. 25°

George London

J. Charles Gilbert
Robert M. Long
Norman L. Fagan
Michael Sean O’Shea
John L. Bryant
Kenneth Birgfeld

Paul J. Bisset

L. Parker Harrell, Jr.
William A. Schmidt
Walter E. Huber

Mrs. Richard M. Nixon
Mrs. Lyndon B. Johnson
Mrs. Aristotle Onassis

Mrs. Dwight D. Eisenhower

Daniel W. Bell

165
Appendix 5

PUBLICATIONS
OF ‘THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION PRESS
IN FISCAL YEAR 1971

Research in Art, History, and Science

Non-SERIES PUBLICATIONS

Eisenberg, J. F., and Wilton S. Dillon, editors. Man and Beast: Comparative
Social Behavior. 401 pages, 29 figures, 3 tables. 18 June 1971. Cloth, $11.50.
Green, Constance McLaughlin, and Milton Lomask. Vanguard: A History. Fore-
word by Charles A. Lindbergh. xviii + 309 pages, 46 illustrations, 3 tables.
27 April 1971. Cloth, $12.50.

Scheele, Carl H. A Short History of the Mail Service. 250 pages, 14 figures, 13
tables. Originally published 15 March 1970, reissued January 1971. Cloth, $6.95.

Stewart, T. D., editor. Personal Identification in Mass Disasters. 158 pages, 40
figures, 59 tables. 16 October 1970. Cloth.

Stites, Raymond S. The Sublimations of Leonardo da Vinci. x +4 422 pages,
311 illustrations. | December 1970. Cloth, $14.95.

Swanton, John R. The Indian Tribes of North America. vi + 726 pages, 5 maps.
Bureau of American Ethnology Bulletin 145, originally published 1952, reis-
sued 15 April 1969, reprinted January 1971. Cloth, $16.50.

SMITHSONIAN ANNALS OF FLIGHT

4. C. Fayette Taylor. “Aircraft Propulsion: A Review of the Evolution of Air-
craft Piston Engines.” viii + 135 pages, 72 figures. 29 January 1971.

6. Robert B. Meyer, Jr., editor. “Langley’s Aero Engine of 1903.” xi + 193
pages, 44 figures. 30 March 1971.

SMITHSONIAN CONTRIBUTIONS TO ASTROPHYSICS

12. Bertil-Anders Lindblad. “Two Computerized Stream Searches Among Me-
teor Orbits: 1. Among 865 Precise Photographic Orbits; 2. Among 2401
Photographic Orbits.” 24 pages, 4 figures, 14 tables. 23 June 1971.

13. Cecilia H. Payne-Gaposchkin. “The Variable Stars of the Large Magellanic
Cloud.” 41 pages, 13 tables. 3 June 1971.

166
APPENDIX 5. PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN PRESS 167

38.

43,

45.

a9:

Bie

52.

53.

SMITHSONIAN CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE EARTH SCIENCES

George Switzer and William G. Melson. ‘Partially Melted Kyanite Eclogite
from the Roberts Victor Mine, South Africa.’ 9 pages, 5 figures, 6 tables.
15 April 1969. [Not reported in 1970.]

Paul A. Mohr. “Catalog of Chemical Analyses of Rocks from the Inter-
section of the African, Gulf of Aden, and Red Sea Rift Systems.’’ 271 pages.
16 December 1970.

Brian Mason and A. L. Graham. “Minor and Trace Elements in Meteoritic
Minerals.” 17 pages, 1 figure, 17 tables. 17 September 1970.

William G. Melson, Eugene Jarosewich, and Charles A. Lundquist. “Vol-
canic Eruption at Metis Shoal, Tonga, 1967-1968: Description and Petrology.”
18 pages, 13 figures, 3 tables. 16 October 1970.

Roy S. Clarke, Jr., Eugene Jarosewich, Brian Mason, Joseph Nelen, Manuel
Gomez, and Jack R. Hyde. “The Allende, Mexico, Meteorite Shower.” 53
pages, 36 figures, 6 tables. 17 February 1971.

Daniel J. Stanley and Noel P. James. “Distribution of Echinarachnius parma
(Lamarck) and Associated Fauna on Sable Island Bank, Southeast Canada.”
24 pages, 8 figures, 6 plates, 1 table. 27 April 1971.

SMITHSONIAN CONTRIBUTIONS TO PALEOBIOLOGY

J. Thomas Dutro, Jr., editor. “Paleozoic Perspectives: A Paleontological

Tribute to G. Arthur Cooper.” 390 pages, illustrated. 22 February 1971.
Arthur D. Watt. “Catalog of the Illustrated Paleozoic Plant Specimens in
the National Museum of Natural History.” 53 pages. 17 September 1970.

SMITHSONIAN CONTRIBUTIONS TO ZOOLOGY

Roger F. Cressey. “Copepods Parasitic on Sharks from the West Coast of
Florida.” 30 pages, 110 figures, 1 table. 30 December 1970.

Norman Marston. “Revision of New World Species of Anthrax (Diptera:
Bombyliidae), Other than the Anthrax albofasciatus Group.” 148 pages,
135 figures, 6 plates, 27 maps. 6 July 1970.

Charles P. Alexander. “Bredin-Archbold-Smithsonian Biological Survey of
Dominica: The Crane Flies (Diptera: Tipulidae).” 59 pages, 68 figures. 17
September 1970.

W. D. Williams. “A Revision of North American Epigean Species of
Asellus (Crustacea: Isopoda).” 80 pages, 57 figures, 5 tables, 31 December 1970.
Dennis M. Devaney. “Studies on Ophiocomid Brittlestars. I. A New Genus
(Clarkcoma) of Ophiocominae with a Reevaluation of the Genus Ophio-
coma.” 41 pages, 50 figures, 5 tables. 2 December 1970.

Marian H. Pettibone. “Revision of the Genus Euthalenessa Darboux
(Polychaeta: Sigalionidae).” 30 pages, 16 figures. 16 July 1970.

Marian H. Pettibone. “Revision of Some Species Referred to Leanira Kin-
berg. (Polychaeta: Sigalionidae).” 25 pages, 12 figures. 6 August 1970.
168 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 197!

54. Arthur G. Humes and Ju-Shey Ho. “Cyclopoid Copepods of the Genus
Pseudanthessius Associated with Crinoids in Madagascar.” 20 pages, 90
figures, 1 table. 16 July 1970.

55. Ellsworth H. Wheeler, Jr. “Atlantic Deep-Sea Calinoid Copepoda.” 31
pages, 109 figures, 4 tables. 18 August 1970.

56. J. F. Gates Clarke. “The Lepidoptera of Rapa Island.” 282 pages, 175
figures, 29 plates. 11 June 1971.

57. Doris H. Blake. “A Review of the Beetles of the Genus Metachroma
Chevrolat (Coleoptera: Chrysomelidae).” 111 pages, 175 figures. 31 Decem-
ber 1970.

59. Ernest A. Lachner, C. Richard Robins, and Walter R. Courtenay, Jr.
“Exotic Fishes and Other Aquatic Organisms Introduced into North Amer-
ica.” 29 pages, 4 figures, 1 table. 30 September 1970.

60. Oliver S. Flint, Jr. “Studies of Neotropical Caddisflies, X: Leucotrichia
and Related Genera from North and Central America (Trichoptera:
Hydroptilidae). ” 64 pages, 249 figures. 21 October 1970.

61. J. Laurens Barnard. ‘““Gammaridean Amphipoda from a Deep-Sea Transect
off Oregon.” 86 pages, 48 figures, 1 table. 4 January 1971.

62. William L. Peters. “A Revision of the Leptophlebiidae of the West Indies
(Ephemeroptera).” 48 pages, 212 figures, 1 table. 10 March 1971.

64. Maureen E. Downey. ‘Zorocallida, New Order, and Doraster constellatus,
New Genus and Species, with Notes on the Zoroasteridae (Echinodermata:
Asteroidea).”’ 18 pages, 11 figures, 2 tables. 30 July 1970.

65. Michael H. Robinson and José Olazarri. “Units of Behavior and Complex
Sequences in the Predatory Behavior of Argiope argentata (Fabricius):
(Araneae: Araneidae).”” 36 pages, 15 figures, 3 tables. 21 May 1971.

66. Peter W. Glynn. “On the Ecology of the Caribbean Chitons Acanthopleura
granulata Gmelin and Chiton tuberculatus Linné: Density, Mortality, Feed-
ing, Reproduction, and Growth.” 21 pages, 10 figures, 9 tables. 16 October
1970.

67. Maurice T. James. “A Partial Revision of the Oriental Isomyia of the
Viridaurea Group (Diptera: Calliphoridae). 14 pages, 1 figure. 17 September
1970.

68. D. L. Deonier. “A Systematic and Ecological Study of Nearctic Hydrellia
(Diptera: Ephydridae).” 147 pages, 142 figures, 2 tables. 11 May 1971.

69. James A. Peters. “Biostatistical Programs in BASIC Language for Time-
Shared Computers: Coordinated with the Book ‘Quantitative Zoology.’ ”
46 pages. 10 March 1971.

70. T. J. Spilman. “Bredin-Archbold-Smithsonian Biological Survey of Do-
minica: Bostrichidae, Inopeplidae, Lagriidae, Lyctidae, Lymexylonidae,
Melandryidae, Monommidae, Rhipiceridae, and Rhipiphoridae (Coleoptera).
10 pages, 7 figures, 1 table. 4 January 1971.

71. Raymond B. Manning. “Keys to the Species of Oratosquilla (Crustacea:
Stomatopoda), with Descriptions of Two New Species.” 16 pages, 4 figures.
14 January 1971.

72. Victor G. Springer. “Revision of the Fish Genus Ecseniws (Blenniidae.
Blenniinae, Salariini).” 74 pages, 36 figures, 18 tables. 30 March 1971.

73. William F. Smith-Vaniz and Victor G. Springer. “Synopsis of the Tribe
Salariini, with Description of Five New Genera and Three New Species
(Pisces: Blenniidae).”’ 72 Pages, 51 figures, 6 tables. 30 March 1971.
APPENDIX 5. PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN PRESS 169

ae.

75.

a.

78.

jigs

80.

82.

83.

86.

88.

89.

of:

96.

10.

James F. Greene. “A Revision of the Nearctic Species of the Genus Psam-
motettix (Homoptera: Cicadellidae).” 40 pages, 23 figures. 25 May 1971.
James A. Blake. “Revision of the Genus Polydora from the East Coast
of North America (Polychaeta: Spionidae).” 32 pages, 16 figures, | table.
5 February 1971.

Klaus Riitzler. “Bredin-Archbold-Smithsonian Biological Survey of Do-
minica: Burrowing Sponges, Genus Siphonodictyon Bergquist, from the
Caribbean.” 37 pages, 11 figures, 9 plates, 2 tables. 24 February 1971.

Neil C. Hulings and John S. Gray, editors. “A Manual for the Study of
Meiofauna.” 83 pages, 13 figures, 1 table. 28 April 1971.

Isabel Perez Farfante. ‘Western Atlantic Shrimps of the Genus Meta-
penaeopsis (Crustacea, Decapoda, Penaeidae), with Descriptions of Three
New Species.” 37 pages, 22 figures, | table. 10 March 1971.

Roman Kenk. “Freshwater Triclads (Turbellaria) of North America, IV:
The Polypharyngeal Species of Phagocata. 17 pages, 9 figures. 30 December
1970.

A. J. Bruce. “Pontoniinid Shrimps from the Ninth Cruise of R/V Anton
Bruun, ILOE, 1964: I. Palaemonella Dana and Periclimenes Costa.” 13 pages,
1 figure, 1 table. 7 April 1971.

George R. Zug. “The Distribution and Patterns of the Major Arteries of
the Iguanids and Comments on the Intergeneric Relationships of Iguanids
(Reptilia: Lacertilia).”” 23 pages, 15 figures, 3 tables. 7 April 1971.

Robert D. Gordon. “A Revision of the Genus Zenoria Mulsant (Coleop-
tera: Coccinellidae).”” 22 pages, 85 figures. 20 January 1971.

Eve C. Southward. “Pogonophora of the Northwest Atlantic: Nova Scotia
to Florida.” 29 pages, 12 figures, 3 tables. 10 May 1971.

Raymond B. Manning and Fenner A. Chace, Jr. “Shrimps of the Family
Processidae from the Northwestern Atlantic Ocean (Crustacea: Decapoda:
Caridea).” 41 pages, 20 figures. 21 May 1971.

William H. Anderson and Donald M. Anderson. “Type Specimens in the
Hans Eggers Collection of Scolytid Beetles (Coleoptera).’’ 38 pages. 11 May
1971.

Thomas E. Bowman. “The Distribution of Calanoid Copepods off the
Southeastern United States Between Cape Hatteras and Southern Florida.”
58 pages, 51 figures. 21 May 197].

SMITHSONIAN STUDIES IN HiIsToRY AND ‘TECHNOLOGY

J. Jefferson Miller II and Lyle M. Stone. “Eighteenth-Century Ceramics
From Fort Michilimackinac.” ix + 130 pages, 56 figures, 9 tables. 31 De-
cember 1970.

Howard I. Chapelle and Leon D. Polland. “The Constellation Question.”
152 pages, 53 figures. 30 October 1970.

George E. Hargest. “History of Letter Post Communication Between the
United States and Europe, 1845-1875.” ix +4 234 pages, 126 figures, 34
tables. 10 February 1971.

John T. Fesperman. “A Snetzler Chamber Organ of 1761.” 56 pages, 20
figures. 15 December 1970.

Robert M. Vogel. “Roebling’s Delaware & Hudson Canal Aqueducts.”
45 pages, 57 figures. 26 April 1971.
170 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1971
UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM BULLETINS

288. Doris M. Cochran and Coleman J. Goin. “Frogs of Colombia.” xii + 655
pages, 55 figures, 68 plates. 6 July 1970.

Public Education

Anacostia Neighborhood Museum. Children’s Pamphlet. 8 pages, illustrated.
9 October 1970.

The Belford 99: A Private Railroad Car. Foldout. 10 August 1970.

Belmont: The Smithsonian Institution’s Conference Center. 8 pages, 6 illus-
trations. Revised 11 January 1971.

Bicentennial Inventory of American Paintings Executed before 1914. Foldout.
11 May 1971.

Bicentennial Park, Smithsonian Institution. 16 pages, illustrated. 29 March
1971.

Black Patriots of the American Revolution. Pamphlet. 16 pages. 2 July 1970.

Blue Whale. Folder. Reprinted 25 March 1971.

Breeskin, Adelyn D. H. Lyman Sayen. Foreword by Joshua C. Taylor. Cata-
log. 83 pages, 51 illustrations. September 1970.

Breeskin, Adelyn Dohme. Mary Cassatt: A Catalogue Raisonne of the Oils,
Pastels, Watercolors, and Drawings. Catalog. 322 pages, 925 illustrations, 15
color plates. 10 November 1970. Cloth, $29.95.

Breeskin, Adelyn D. Romaine Brooks, “Thief of Souls.” Catalog. 143 pages, 83
illustrations. 19 March 1971.

The Center for Anacostia Studies. Pamphlet, 6 pages, illustrated. 30 April
1971.

Curtis, L. Perry, Jr. Apes and Angels: The Irishman in Victorian Caricature.
xi + 126 pages, 46 figures. 31 March 1971. Cloth, $6.95.

D. C. Art Association Exhibition ’71. Foreword by John R. Kinard. Catalog.
64 pages, 36 illustrations. 30 April 1971.

Do It the Hard Way: Rube Goldberg and Modern Times. Foreword by Peter
C. Marzio; essays by Daniel J. Boorstin, Anne C. Golovin, and Rube Goldberg.
Catalog. 32 pages, 25 illustrations. 24 November 1970.

The Fitness of Man’s Environment. Smithsonian Annual II. Introduction by
Jennie Lee; foreword by Hubert H. Humphrey; premise by S. Dillon Ripley.
250 pages. Originally published June 1968, reprinted January 1971. Cloth,
$6.50.

The Frederick Douglass Years: A Cultural History Exhibition. 46 pages, 40
illustrations. 14 September 1970.

“A Glimmer of Their Own Beauty”: Black Sounds of the Twenties. 32 pages,
43 illustrations. June 1971.

The Grumman G22, “Gulfhawk II.” Folder. 8 April 1971.

The Hall of American Maritime Enterprise: A Proposal for a New Exhibit Hall
for the National Museum of History and Technology, Smithsonian Institution,
in Washington, D.C. Catalog. 11 pages, illustrated. 21 May 1971.

The Hand of Man on America. Foreword by David Haberstich; photographs
by David Plowden; acknowledgments by Dorothy T. Van Arsdale. Catalog.
85 pages, 76 illustrations. 10 November 1970.
APPENDIX 5. PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN PRESS WA

History of Science and Technology at the Smithsonian Institution. Foldout.
17 December 1970.

James Weldon Johnson (1871-1938). 14 pages, 16 illustrations. May 1971.
Jasper F. Cropsey, 1823-1900. ¥oreword by Joshua C. Taylor; essay by William

S. Talbott. Catalog. 114 pages, 65 black and white illustrations, 2 color plates.
23 October 1970. Leaflet. 14 July 1970.

John Muir, 1838-1914. 16 pages, 16 illustrations. 26 March 1971.

The Life Portraits of John Quincy Adams. Introduction by Marvin Sadik. Cata-
log. 112 pages, 47 illustrations. September 1970. Folder 30 October 1970.

Moments: A Photographic Exhibit. Foreword by John R. Kinard. 16 pages,
illustrated. 21 November 1970.

Music Machines: American Style. Foldout. 5 April 1971.

Napier, John. The Roots of Mankind. xi + 240 pages, 30 figures, 20 plates,
13 tables. 16 October 1970. Cloth, $6.95.

Open House for Teachers. Announcement. 23 October 1970.

Opportunities in Oceanography. 32 pages, 44 illustrations. Revised 24 March
1971. Paper $1.25.

The Pan-American Goodwill Flight of 1926-1927. Foldout. 7 April 1971.

Plans for Making an Early American Loom. Folder. 9 November 1970.

Preparation of Illustrations for Smithsonian Contributions to Botany, Paleo-
biology, Earth Sciences, Zoology. 5 pages, illustrated. 28 September 1970.

Scheele, Carl H. Neither Snow, Nor Rain ...: The Story of the United States
Mails. 99 pages, 85 illustrations. 9 September 1970.

Sharrer, George Terry. George Washington Carver. Foldout. 19 October 1970.

Smithsonian Institution. Foldout. In English 19 January 1971. In French 18
June 1971. In Spanish 18 June 1971.

Smithsonian Institution Seminar Series in Paleopathology, 1971. Folder. 10
November 1970.

Stewart, Robert G. Henry Benbridge (1743-1812): American Portrait Painter.
Catalog. 93 pages, 121 figures. 26 March 1971. Foldout 1 April 1971. Poster
8 April 1971.

Tiger Talk. Booklet. 10 pages. 6 October 1970.

... Toward Freedom. Catalog. 28 pages, illustrated. 15 January 1971. Foldout
8 January 1971.

Wessel, Thomas R. The Honey Bee. Smithsonian Information Leaflet 482
(1967). 15 pages, 5 figures. Revised 17 June 1971.

Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars, 1970-1971. Booklet. 20
pages, illustrated. 6 August 1971.

Woodrow Wilson International Center For Scholars. Foldout. 30 November
1970.

The Wright Brothers. Folder. 8 pages, illustrated. 8 April 1971.

Institutional Publications

Annual Report of the American Historical Association for the Year 1969. Vol-
ume 1: “Proceedings.” xviii + 188 pages. 28 December 1970.

441-283 O- 71 - 12
172 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1971

Donors to the National Collections and Staff Publications, National Museum of
History and Technology, 1 May 1969 through 30 April 1970. 26 pages. 25
May 1971.

Smithsonian Year 1970: Annual Report of the Smithsonian Institution for the
Year Ended 30 June 1970. vi + 218 pages, illustrated. Publication 4766. 29
January 1971.

Smithsonian Institution Opportunities for Research and Advanced Study, 1971-
1972. xvi + 234 pages, 8 illustrations. 22 September 1970. Separates in Anthro-
pology, The Humanities, and Physical Sciences issued 1 December 1970.

ATOLL RESEARCH BULLETINS
(Bound in one volume)

137. Robert L. Folk and Augustus S. Cotera. “Carbonate Sand Cays of Alacran
Reef, Yucatan, Mexico: Sediments.” 16 pages, 10 figures. 16 February 1971.

138. Garrett C. Clough and George Fulk. “The Vertebrate Fauna and the
Vegetation of East Plana Cay, Bahama Islands.” 17 pages, 7 plates. 16
February 1971.

139. W.G. D’Arcy. “The Island of Anegada and Its Flora.” 21 pages, 6 plates.
16 February 1971.

140. Alan J. Kohn. “Inshore Marine Habitats of Some Continental Islands in
the Eastern Indian Ocean.” 29 pages, 26 figures, 1 table. 16 February 1971.

141. C. S$. Gopinadha Pillai. “The Distribution of Shallow-water Stony Corals
at Minicoy Atoll in the Indian Ocean with a Check-list of Species.” 12
pages, 2 figures, 1 table. 16 February 1971.

142. S. B. Domm. “The Uninhabited Cays of the Capricorn Group, Great
Barrief Reef, Australia,” 27 pages, 10 figures, 24 plates. 16 February 1971.

143. S. B. Domm. “The Safe Use of Open Boats in the Coral Reef Environ-
ment.” 10 pages. 16 February 1971.

144. Roger B. Clapp and Fred C. Sibley. “The Vascular Flora and Terrestrial
Vertebrates of Vostok Island, South-Central Pacific.” 10 pages, 4 figures,
2 tables. 16 February 1971.

145. Roger B. Clapp and Fred C. Sibley. “Notes on the Vascular Flora and
Terrestrial Vertebrates of Caroline Atoll Southern Line Islands.” 18 pages,
5 figures, 1 table. 16 February 1971.

146. A. Binion Amerson, Jr., and K. C. Emerson. “Records of Mallophaga
from Pacific Birds.” 30 pages. 16 February 1971.

147. D. R. Stoddart. “Rainfall on Indian Ocean Coral Islands.” 21 pages, 11
figures, 3 tables. 16 February 1971.

148. “Island News and Comment.” 38 pages.
Appendix 6

PUBLICATIONS
OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION STAFF
IN FISCAL YEAR 1971

National Museum of Natural History

DEPARTMENT OF ANTHROPOLOGY

Angel, J. Lawrence. Lerna: A Preclassical Site in the Argolid, volume 2: The
People. American School of Classical Studies at Athens, Princeton, New Jersey,
and Smithsonian Institution Press, 1971.

Evans, Clifford, and Betty J. Meggars. “Archaeology: South America.” In
Handbook of Latin American Studies, number 31, pages 68-94. Gainesville:
University of Florida Press, 1970.

Gibson, Bethune. “Methods of Removing White and Black Deposits from An-
cient Pottery.” Studies in Conservation, volume 16, number 1, pages 18-23.
Knez, Eugene I., and A. Gilbert Wright. “The Museum as a Communication
System: An Assessment of Cameron’s Viewpoint,” Curator, volume 13, number

3, pages 204-212. American Museum of Natural History, New York.

Meggers, Betty J. Amazonia: Man and Culture in a Counterfeit Paradise, Chi-
cago: Aldine-Atherton Press, 1971.

, Translator. The Civilizational Process by Darcy Ribeiro. xviii + 201
pages, 3 figures. New York: Harper Torchbooks, Harper and Row, 1971.

Meggers, Betty J., and Clifford Evans. Como Interpretar a Linguagem da
Cerémica. Translated by Alroino B. Eble from the revised text of Potsherd
Language [Multilith]. iv + 111 pages, 28 figures. Washington, D.C., 1970.

Ortner, D. J.. and D. W. Von Endt. “Microscopic and Electron Microprobe
Characterization of the Sclerotic Lamellae in Human Osteons.” Israel Journal
of Medical Science, volume 7, pages 480-482.

Phebus, George E., Jr. “Archeology: Western Hemisphere.” Americana Annual
(1971), pages 99-100. New York.

Stewart, T. D. “The Evolution of Man in Asia as Seen in the Lower Jaw.”
Proceedings of the VIIIth International Congress of Anthropological and Eth-
nological Sciences, Tokyo and Kyoto, 1968, volume 1, pages 263-266, 1970.

“Skin, Hair and Eyes [of Middle American Indians], A: Introduc-
tion.” In Handbook of Middle American Indians, volume 9 edited by T. D.
Stewart, pages 164-166. Austin: University of Texas Press, 1970.

“Skin, Hair and Eyes [of Middle American Indians], D: Color of
Eyes and Skin.” In Handbook of Middle American Indians, volume 9 edited
by T. D. Stewart, pages 184-191. Austin: University of Texas Press, 1970.

173
174 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1971.

“Physical Plasticity and Adaptation [of Middle American Indians].”
In Handbook of Middle American Indians, volume 9 edited by T. D. Stewart,
pages 192-202. Austin: University of Texas Press, 1970.

“Foreword.” In Personal Identification in Mass Disasters, edited
by T. D. Stewart, pages 1-4. Washington, D.C.: National Museum of Natural
History, Smithsonian Institution, 1970.

“Identification of the Scars of Parturition in the Skeletal Remains
of Females.” In Personal Identification in Mass Disasters, edited by T. D.
Stewart, pages 127-135. Washington, D.C.: National Museum of Natural His-
tory, Smithsonian Institution, 1970.

“Selected Bibliography on Personal Identification.” In Personal
Identification in Mass Disasters, edited by T. D. Stewart, pages 137-155. Wash-
ington, D.C.: National Museum of Natural History, Smithsonian Institution,
1970.

“Report on the Skeletal Remains from the St. Jones Adena Site
near Lebanon, Delaware.” Bulletin Series Delaware State Museum, volume 2
(1970), 46 pages.

Sturtevant, William C. ‘Agriculture on Artificial Islands in Burma and Else-
where.” Proceedings of the 8th International Congress of Anthropological and
Ethnological Sciences, Tokyo and Kyoto, 1968, volume 3, pages 11-13, 1970.

, compiler. “Early Indian Tribes, Culture Areas, and Linguistic
Stocks.” Two maps on pages 130-132 of National Atlas, U. S. Geological Sur-
vey, Washington, D.C., 1971.

Contributing consultant with G. Berreman and 32 others. Anthro-
pology Today. Del Mar, California: CRM Books, 1971.

Van Beek, Gus W., and A. Jamme. “The Authenticity of the Bethel Stamp
Seal.” Bulletin of the American Schools of Oriental Research 199 (1970), pages
59-65.

Von Endt, D. W., and J. W. Wheeler, Jr. “‘1- Pentadecene Production in Tri-
bolium Confusum.” Science, volume 172 (1971), pages 60-61.

Wedel, Waldo R. “Coronado’s Route to Quivira 1541.” Plains Anthropologist,
volume 15, number 49 (1970), pages 161-168.

“Some Observations on Two House Sites in the Central Plains:
An Experiment in Archaeology.” Nebraska History, volume 51, number 2
(1970), pages 225-252.

“Some Environmental and Historical Factors of the Great Bend
Aspect.” In Pleistocene and Recent Environments of the Great Plains, W.
Dort, Jr., and J. K. Jones, Jr., editors, pages 131-140. Lawrence, Kansas: Uni-
versity of Kansas Press, 1970.

DEPARTMENT OF BOTANY

Ayensu, Edward S. “Analysis of the Complex Vascularity in Stems of Dioscorea
composita.” Journal of the Arnold Arboretum, volume 51, number 2 (1970),
pages 228-240.

“Comparative Anatomy of Dioscorea rotundata and Dioscorea cay-
enensis.” In New Research in Plant Anatomy, edited by N. K. B. Robson et al.,
pages 127-136. Academic Press, 1970.

“Anatomy and Morphology of Tropical Plants.’’ Advanced Seminar
APPENDIX 6. PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN STAFF 175

for Tropical Botany, University-of Miami, Florida. National Science Founda-
tion-sponsored program, June-July 1970.

“Vascular Architecture of Flowering Plants Especially Mono-
cotyledons.”” University of Maryland, December 1970.

“Comments on Old and New World Dioscoreas.” First International
Symposium on Dioscoreas. Associacion de fabricantes de esteroides A.C. Mexico,
October 1970.

Cowan, R. S. “Leguminosae/Caesalpinioideae.” In Wiggins and Porter’s Flora
of the Galapagos Islands, pages 600-608. Stanford University Press, May 1971.

Cuatrecasas, J. ‘Una nueva Mirtacea frutal de las Costa del Pacifico.” Mutisia,
volume 32 (1970), pages 6-8.

“Reinstatement of the genus Llerasia (Compositae).” Biotropica,
volume 2, number | (1970), pages 39-45.

“Brunelliaceae.’ Monograph number 2 of Flora Neotropica, pages
1-189. 1970.

“Miscellaneous Notes on Neotropical Flora.
20, number 8 (1971), pages 465-481.

Ernst, Wallace R., and Michael F. Baad. ‘““T'wo New Species of Lamourouxia
(Scrophulariaceae) in Mexico.” Madrorio, volume 20 (1970), pages 342-346.

Eyde, R. H. “Anatomy.” In J. Cuatrecasas “Brunelliaceae.’” Monograph Num-
ber 2 of Flora Neotropica, pages 32-43. 1970.

“Evolutionary Morphology: Distinguishing Ancestral Structure
from Derived Structure in Flowering Plants.” Taxon, volume 20, number 1
(1971), pages 63-73.

Eyde, R. H., and C. C. Tseng. “What is the Primitive Floral Structure of
Araliaceae?” Journal of the Arnold Arboretum, volume 52, number 2 (1971),
pages 205-239.

Fosberg, F. R. “Desert Wilderness,” The Living Wilderness, volume 34, number
109 (1970), pages 17-24.

“The Tropical Agriculture Panacea.” BioScience, volume 20 (1970),

”

Phytologia, volume

page 793.
“Preliminary Survey of Aldabra Vegetation.” Philosophical Trans-
actions of the Royal Society, London B, volume 260 (1971), pages 215-225.
“The Problem of Isolation in the Lowland Tropical Rain Forest.”
Tropical Ecology, volume 11 (1970), pages 162-168.

Fosberg, F. R., and T. Blunt. “Vernon Black Gum Swamp.” Rhodora, volume
72 (1970), pages 280-282.

Fosberg, F. R., M. S. Doty, and D. Mueller-Dombois. “Initial Site Studies for
the International Biological Program in the Tropical and Far Western Pacific.”
Micronesica, volume 5 (1970), pages 283-293.

Fosberg, F. R., and M. -H. Sachet. “Island News and Comment.” Atoll Research
Bulletin, number 148 (1971), pages 1-38.

Fosberg, F. R., D. R. Stoddart, J. D. Taylor and G. E. Farrow. ‘‘Geomorphology
of Aldabra Atoll.” Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society, London B,
volume 260 (1971), pages 31-65.

Hale, Mason E. “Single-lobe Growth-rate Patterns in the Lichen Parmelia
caperata.” Bryologist, volume 73, number | (1970), pages 72-81.

“Two Species of Parmelia New to North America.” Bryologist,
volume 74, number 1, pages 4446.
King, R. M., and H. Robinson. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Compositae),
176 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1971

XVIII: New Combinations in Fleischmannia.” Phytologia, volume 19 (1970),
pages 201-207.
————.. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Compositae), XIX: New Combinations
in Ageratina.” Phytologia, volume 19 (1970), pages 208-229.
“Studies in the Eupatorieae (Compositae), XII: A New Genus,
Shinnersia.” Phytologia, volume 19 (1970), pages 297-298.
“Studies in the Eupatorieae (Compositae), XIII: The Genus Cono-
clinium.” Phytologia, volume 19 (1970), pages 299-300.
“Studies in the Eupatorieae (Compositae), XIV: Another Example
of Dimorphic Pollen?” Phytologia, volume 19 (1970), pages 301-302.
“Studies in the Eupatorieae (Compositae), XX: New Combinations
in Spaniopappus.” Phytologia, volume 19 (1970), pages 303-304.
————.. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Compositae), XXI: A New Genus,
Neomirandea.” Phytologia, volume 19 (1970), pages 305-310.
“Studies in the Eupatorieae (Compositae), XXXII: A New Genus,
Neocuatrecasia.” Phytologia, volume, 20 (1970), pages 332-333.
“Eupatorium, A Composite Genus of Arcto-Tertiary Distribution.”
Taxon, volume 19 (1970), pages 769-774.
————. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Compositae), XXXIII: The Genus
Gyptis.” Phytologia, volume 21 (1971), pages 22-25.
————. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Compositae), XXXIV: A New Genus,
Barrosoa.” Phytologia, volume 21 (1971), pages 26-27.
“Studies in the Eupatorieae (Compositae), XXXV: A New Genus,
Lourteigia.” Phytologia, volume 21 (1971), pages 28-30.
“Studies in the Eupatorieae (Compositae), XV: Jaliscoa, Mac-
vaughiella, Oaxacania, and Planaltoa.’”” Rhodora, volume 72 number 789 (1970),
pages 100-105.
“The New Synantherology.” Taxon, volume 19, number 1 (1970),
pages 6-11.
“Studies in the Eupatorieae (Compositae), XXII: The Genus
Piptothrix.” Phytologia, volume 19 (1970), pages 425-426.
“Studies in the Eupatorieae (Compositae), XXIII: New Combina-
tions in Jaliscoa.” Phytologia, volume 19 (1970), pages 427-428.
“Studies in the Eupatorieae (Compositae), XXIV: A New Genus,
Stomatanthes.” Phytologia, volume 19 (1970), pages 429-430.
“Studies in the Eupatorieae (Compositae), XXV: A New Genus,
Eupatoriadelphus.” Phytologia, volume 19 (1970), pages 431-432.
“Studies in the Eupatorieae (Compositae), XXVI: A New Genus,
Austroeupatorium.” Phytologia, volume 19 (1970), pages 433-434.
“Studies in the Eupatorieae (Compositae), XXVIII: A Monogram
of the Genus, Trichocoronis.” Phytologia, volume 19 (1970), pages 497-500.
“Studies in the Eupatorieae (Compositae), XXVIII: The Genus
-Praxelis.” Phytologia, volume 20 (1970), pages 193-195.
“Studies in the Eupatorieae (Compositae), XXIX: The Genus
Chromolaena.” Phytologia, volume 20 (1970), pages 196-209.
“Studies in the Eupatorieae (Compositae), XXX: The Genus
Ayapana.” Phytologia, volume 20 (1970), pages 210-212.
“Studies in the Eupatorieae (Compositae), XXXI: A New Genus,
Polyanthina.” Phytologia, volume 20 (1970), pages 213-214.
Lellinger, David B. “Fern” in Encyclopedia Americana (1970), pages 113-120.
APPENDIX 6. PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN STAFF 177

Lellinger, David B., and C. V. Morton. “Niphidium lJongifloitum, a necessary
new combination.” American Fern Journal, volume 61, number 1 (1971),
pages 37-39.

————. “The Many Species of Polypodium crassifolium.” American Fern
Society Session, AIBS Meetings, Bloomington, Indiana, August 1970.

“Methods in Quantitative Taxonomy.” Department of Biology,
University of Antioquia, Medellin, Colombia, April 1971.

Morton, Conrad V. “The Fern Collections in Some European Herbaria, V.”
American Fern Journal, volume 59, number 4 (1970), pages 137-149.

“A Further Note on the Type of Platycerium alcicorne.” American
Fern Journal, volume 60, number | (1970), pages 7-12.

“A New Form of Microlepia speluncae.” American Fern Jaurnal,
volume 60, number | (1970), pages 28-29.

“Le nom exact d’un Pteris du Portugal et des Iles Atlantiques.”
Bulletin de la Société Botanique de France, volume 116 (1970), pages 247-248.

“The Fern Collections in Some European Herbaria, VI.’ American
Fern Journal, volume 60 (1970), pages 49-61.

“A Reply to A. V. Hall on the Names of Subsidiary Groups.”
Taxon, volume 19, number 3 (1970), page 485.

“A Peculiar Species of Grammitis.” American Fern Journal, volume
60 number 2 (1970), pages 65-67.

“Proposal for the Conservation of the Generic Name Drynaria
(Bory) J. Smith (Filicineae).”” Taxon, volume 19, number 4 (1970), page 647.

—————. “The Lectotype of Polypodium leptophyllum L.” American Fern
Journal, volume 60, number 3 (1970), pages 101-103.

“Taxonomic Notes on Ferns, IV.” American Fern Journal, volume
60, number 3 (1970), pages 103-106.

“Pyrrosia princeps, a Fern New to Cultivation.” American Fern
Journal, volume 60, number 3 (1970), pages 118-119.

“Some Types and Range Extensions in Hybanthus (Violaceae).”
Phytologia, volume 21, number | (1971), pages 56-62.

“The Genus Columnea (Gesneriaceae) in Panama.’
volume 21, number 3 (1971), pages 165-195.

“The Proper Disposition of Meniscium macrophyllum Kunze.”
American Fern Journal, volume 61, number 1, (1971), pages 17-20.

“Ferns and Allies.”” In Wiggins and Porter, Flora of the Galapagos
Islands, pages 61-176. Stanford, California: Stanford University Press, 1971.

Parker, K. F. “Two New Taxa in Texas Hymenoxys (Compositae).” Phytologia,
volume 20 (1970), page 192.

“Hymenoxys of Texas.” In D. S. Correll and M. C. Johnston,
Manual of the Vascular Plants of Texas, pages 1676-1680. Renner, Texas:
Texas Research Foundation, 1970.

Reed, C. F., and H. Robinson. “Bryophytes of Monteverde, Costa Rica.” Phy-
tologia, volume 21 (1971), pages 6-21.

Robinson, H. ‘Notes on the Genus Nowellia.”. The Bryologist, volume 73,
number 1 (1970), pages 150-152.

.““A Revision of the Moss Genus, Trichostomopsis.” Phytologia, vol-
ume 20 (1970), pages 184-191.
“Notes on the Moss Genera, Camptochaete, Physcomitrium, and
Ptychomnion, in Chile.” Phytologia, volume 20 (1970), pages 329-331.

’

Phytologia,
178 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1971

“South American Species of Stomatanthes (Eupatorieae, Compo-
sitae).” Phytologia, volume 20 (1970), pages 334-338.

“The Subfamilies of the Family Dolichopodidae in North and
South America (Diptera).”” Papéis Avulsos de Zoologia, volume 23, number 6
(1970), pages 53-62.

—————.. “Family Dolichopodidae.” A Catalogue of the Diptera of the Amer-
icas South of the United States. Fascicle 40, pages 1-92. Sad Paulo, Brazil:
Museu de Zoologia, Universidad de Sa6 Paulo, 1970.

“A Revision of the Moss Genus, Hymenostyliella, with Description
of Sporophyte.” Phytologia, volume 21 (1971), pages 1-3.

———. “A New Species of Cyclodictyon from Costa Rica.” Phytologia,
volume 21 (1971), pages 4-5.

Robinson, H., and P. H. Arnaud, Jr. “The Genus Enlinia Alsrich in America
North of Mexico (Diptera: Dolichopodidae).” Occasional Papers of the Cali-
fornia Academy of Sciences, number 83 (1970), pages 1-9.

Robinson, H., and G. C. Steyskal. “Dolichopodidae from the Patuxent Wildlife
Refuge, Maryland, with the Descriptions of Three New Species of Neurigona
(Diptera.)” Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Washington, volume
72, number 4 (1970), pages 448-453.

Rudd, Velva E. “Proposal for the Conservation of the Generic Name 3899.
Flemingia Roxburgh ex W. T. Aiton (1812). Taxon, volume 19 (1970), pages
282-285.

“Revival of Nissolia microptera (Leguminosae).”
ume 20 (1970), page 324.

“Etaballia dubia (Leguminosae), A New Combination.” Phytologia,
volume 20 (1970), pages 426-428.

“Studies in the Sophoreae (Leguminosae) I.” Phytologia, volume
21 (1971), page 327.

“Leguminosae: Minosoideae; Faboideae.” In Wiggins and Porter,
Flora of the Galapagos Islands, pages 608-658. Stanford, California: Stanford
University Press, 1971.

Shetler, Stanwyn G. “The Herbarium: Past, Present, and Future.* Volume 82,
pages 687-758 of D. M. Cohen and R. F. Cressey, editors, “Natural History
Collections: Past, Present, Future,” in Proceedings of the Biological Society
of Washington.

“The Suitland Bog.” Atlantic Naturalist, volume 25 (1970), pages

Phytologia, vol-

65-68.

“Flora North America as an Information System.” BioScience, vol-
ume 21 (1971), pages 524, 529-532.

“Informal Report on Progress of Flora North America Program.”
Joint session of American Society of Plant Taxonomists and Systematics Sec-
tion of the Botanical Society of America, 21st Annual AIBS Meeting of Bio-
logical Societies, Indiana University, Bloomington, 25 August 1970.

“Flora North America—Plants, Man and Machine.”’ Paper in sym-
posium “The Usefulness of Systematics in Science,” sponsored by the Society
for Systematic Zoology, Ist National Biological Congress, Detroit, Michigan,
8 November 1970.

“Plants, Man and Computers.” Seminar. Science Center, Eastern
Mennonite College, Harrisonburg, Virginia, 8 March 1971.

“Flora of Alaska.” Public lecture sponsored by Audubon Naturalist
Society of the Central Atlantic States, Smithsonian Institution, 15 March 1971.
APPENDIX 6. PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN STAFF 179

“Informal Report on Flora North America Program” to “Round-

Table on Information Storage and Retrieval in Plant Systematics,” sponsored

by the Phytogeography and Systematics Section of the Canadian Botanical

Association, joint meeting of the Canadian Botanical Association and_ the

AIBS, University of Alberta, Edmonton, 21 June 1971.

“Cytological Studies on Campanula rotundifolia in the Rocky

” Paper presented to joint session of American Society of Plant
Taxonomists and Systematics Section of the Botanical Society of America,
joint meeting of the Canadian Botanical Association and the AIBS, University
of Alberta, Edmonton, 22 June 1971.

Shetler, Stanwyn G., J. H. Beaman, M. E. Hale, L. E. Morse, J. J. Crockett, and
R. A. Creighton. “Pilot Data Processing Systems for Floristic Information.”
In J. L. Cutbill, editor, Data Processing in Biology and Geology, pages 275-
310. New York and London: Academic Press, 1971.

Smith, Lyman B. “Notes on Bromeliaceae, XXX.” Phytologia, volume 19,
number 4 (1970), pages 281—290.

“Notes on Bromeliaceae, XXXI.” Phytologia, volume 20, number
3 (1970), pages 121-183.

————. “Boraginaceas.” Flora Ilustrada Catarinense, part 1, fascicle BORA
(1970), pages 1-85.

—————.. “Notes on Bromeliaceae, XXXII.” Phytologia, volume 21, number
2 (1971), pages 73-96.

Handro, Oswaldo, and Lyman B. Smith. “A New Combination in Hypocyrta,
Gesneriaceae.” Phytologia, volume 20, number 6 (1970), page 390.

Rauh, Wener, and Lyman B. Smith. “Tillandsia esseriana.” Journal of the
Bromeliad Society, volume 21, number | (1971), pages 3-6.

McWilliams, Edward L., and Lyman B. Smith. “A New Species of Vriesea from
Southeastern Brazil.” Bromeliad Society Bulletin, volume 20, number 3 (1970),
pages 53-56.

Smith, C. Earle, Jr., and Lyman B. Smith. ‘Eleocarpaceas.’”’ Flora Ilustrada
Catarinense, part 1, fascicle ELEO (1970), pages 1-33. [Also in Florula da Ilha
de Santa Catarina, fascicle ELEO (1970), pages 1—25.]

Soderstrom, T. R. “Grass.” Encyclopedia Americana (1970), pages 192-199.

Gould, F. W., and T. R. Soderstrom. ‘Gramineae.’ In A. Love, “IOPB Chromo-
some Number Reports.” Taxon, volume 19, number 1 (1970), pages 104-105.

“Chromosome Numbers of Some Mexican and Colombian Grasses.”
Canadian Journal of Botany, volume 48, number 9 (1970), pages 1633-1639.

Wasshausen, Dieter C. “A Synopsis of the Genus Seussenguthia (Acanthaceae).”
Rhodora, volume 72, number 789 (1970), pages 119-125.

“Acanthaceae.” In Donovan S. Correll and Marshall C. Johnston,
Manual of the Vascular Plants of Texas, pages 1456-1475. Renner, Texas:
Texas Research Foundation, 1970.

Mountains.

“Acanthaceae.” In Wiggins and Porter, Flora of the Galapagos
Islands, pages 259-268. Stanford, California: Stanford University Press, 1971.
Wurdack, J. J. “Triolena pustulata—Correct Name for Bertolonia pubescens.”
The American Horticultural Magazine, volume 49, number 2 (1970) , page 81.
“Certamen Melastomataceis XV.” Phytologia, volume 20, number
6 (1970), pages 369-389.
“Erroneous Data in Glaziou Collections of Melastomataceae.”
Taxon, volume 19, number 6 (1970), pages 911-913.
180 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1971

“Certamen Melastomataceis XVI. Phytologia, volume 21, number
2 (1971), pages 115-130.

DEPARTMENT OF ENTOMOLOGY

Amerson, A. B., and K. C. Emerson. “Records of Mallophaga from Pacific
Birds.” Atoll Research Bulletin, number 146, 30 pages.

Blake, Doris H. “Notes on Some Chrysomelid Beetles in the United States and
Argentina (Coleoptera: Chrysomelidae).” Proceedings of the Entomological
Society of Washington, volume 72 (September 1970), pages 320-324.

“A Review of the Beetles of the Genus Metachroma Chevrolat
(Coleoptera: Chrysomelidae).” Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology, number
57 (31 December 1970), pages 1-111.

Brown, F. Martin, and William D. Field. “Papilio hyllus Cramer, 1776, vs.
Polycommatus thoe Guerin-Meneville, 1831, and the ‘50-year rule’ (Lepidop-
tera: Lycaenidae).” Journal New York Entomological Society, volume 78,
number 3 (1970), pages 175-184.

Cartwright, Oscar L. “The Male of Megasoma vogti Cartwright (Coleoptera:
Scarabaeidae: Dynastinae).” Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Wash-
ington, volume 72, number 2 (1970), pages 224-226.

“A New Name for Onthophagus monticolus Howden and Cart-
wright (Coleoptera: Scarabaeidae).” Proceedings of the Entomological Society
of Washington, volume 72, number 1 (1970), page 54.

———. “Two New Synonyms of Ataenius picinus Harold (Coleoptera:
Scarabaeidae: Aphodiinae).” Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Wash-
ington, volume 72, number 2 (1970), page 226.

“A Review of the Aphodiine Beetles of the Galapagos Islands
(Coleoptera: Scarabaeidae).” Proceedings of the Biological Society of Wash-
ington, volume 83, number 4 (1970), pages 51-58.

Clarke, J. F. Gates. Catalogue of the Type Specimens of Microlepidoptera in
the British Museum (Natural History) described by Edward Meyrick, volume
8, 261 pages, 60 plates. London: British Museum (Natural History), 1970.

“The Lepidoptera of Rapa Island.” Smithsonian Contributions to
Zoology, number 56 (11 June 1971), 282 pages, 175 figures, 29 plates.

Crabill, Ralph E. “A New Ballophilus from the Philippines.” Proceedings of the
Biological Society of Washington, volume 73, number 1, pages 27-28.

Dobrotworsky, N. V. Contributions to the Mosquito Fauna of Southeast
Asia, X: The Genus Culisela Felt in Southeast Asia. Contributions to the
American Entomological Institute, volume 7, number 3 (May 1971), pages
38-61.

Emerson, K. C., and Roger D. Price. “A New Species of Plegadiphilus (Mallo-
phaga: Menoponidae) from the Cayenne Ibis.’ The Florida Entomologist, vol-
ume 52, pages 161-163.

“A New Species and Records of Mallophaga (Trichodectidae) from
Nigerian Mammals.” Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Washington,
volume 71, pages 335-339.

Erwin, Terry L. “Unique Structures in Members of Tachys sensu lat. (Coleop-
tera: Carabidae).” Pan-Pacific Entomologist, volume 46, pages 231-232, 2
figures.
APPENDIX 6. PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN STAFF 18]

“The Nearctic Species of the Genus Leistus Frélich (Coleoptera:
Carabidae).” Pan-Pacific Entomologist, volume 46, pages 111-119, 8 figures.

“A Description of the Larva of Thyce harfordi Casey (Scarabaeidae:
Melolonthini).” Psyche, volume 77, number 1, pages 50-53, 7 figures.

“The Role of the Bombardier Beetle in the Riparian Ecosystem.”
Lecture. Given to the combined Swedish and Danish Entomological Societies
on 21 November 1970.

Seminar on Ground Beetles. Given to the Entomology and Zoology
Departments at Lund University, Spring 1971.

Flint, Oliver S., Jr. “Life History Studies on Chilean Caddisflies (Trichoptera).”
The American Philosophical Society Yearbook 1970, pages 312-313. 1971.

“Studies of Neotropical Caddis Flies, X: Leucotrichia and Related
Genera from North and Central America (Trichoptera: Hydroptilidae).”
Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology, number 60 (21 October 1970), 64 pages,
249 figures.

“Studies of Neotropical Caddis Flies, XI: The Genus Rhyacopsyche
in Central America (Hydroptilidae).” Proceedings of the Biological Society
of Washington, volume 83, number 46 (1971), pages 515-526.

Froeschner, Richard C. “Teleonemia harleyi, a New Species of Lantana-feeding
Lace Bug from Trinidad, W.I. (Hemiptera. Tingidae).”’ Proceedings of the
Entomological Society of Washington, volume 72, pages 470-472.

Froeschner, Richard C., and Richard M. Baranowski. ‘First United States Rec-
ords for a West Indian Burrower Bug, Ammnestus trimaculatus Froeschner
(Hemiptera: Cydnidae).”” The Florida Entomologist, volume 53, page 15.

Huang, Yiau-Min. “A Note on Aedes aurotaeniatus Edwards. Proceedings of
the Entomological Society of Washington, volume 72, number 3 (September
1970), pages 281-288.

“A Redescription of Aedes (Stegomyia) scutellaris melayensis Colless
and the Differentiation of the Larva from that of Aedes (S). albopictus (Skuse)
(Diptera: Culicidae).” Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Washington,
volume 73, number | (March 1971), pages 1-8.

Hurd, Paul D., Jr. “A Classification of the Squash and Gourd Bees Peponapis
and Xenoglossa (Hymenoptera: Apoidea).” University of California Publica-
tions in Entomology, volume 62 (September 1970), pages 1-39, 11 figures, 3
maps, 4 tables.

“Systematics of Bees and Their Value in Determining Plant Ori-
gins.” Lecture. University of Alberta, Edmonton, Canada, 24 September 1970.

“Exploitation of Squashes, Gourds, and Pumpkins in the American
Tropics by Bees of the Genera Peponapis and Xenoglossa.” Invited Speaker,
Symposium on “Insect Speciation in Tropical Environments,” Entomological
Society of America national meeting, Miami, Florida, 1 December 1970.

“Squash and Gourd Bees and the Origin of the Cultivated Curcur-
bita.” Lecture. University of Maryland, College Park, Maryland, 3 March 1971.

“The Birds and the Bees.”” Radio Smithsonian, 21 March 1971.

“Squash Bees and Pumpkins.” Invited speaker, American Entomo-
logical Society, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, 27 May 1971.

“A New Narrowly Polylectic, Autumnal Species of Dialictus from
the Flowers of Jepsonia heterandra, An Endemic California Saxifrage. Pan-
Pacific Entomologist, volume 46, number 3 (October 1970), pages 209-212.

Hurd, Paul D., Jr., E. Gorton Linsley, and T. W. Whitaker. “Squash and Gourd
Bees (Peponapis, Xenoglossa) and the Origin of the Cultivated Cucurbita.’
182 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1971

Evolution, volume 25, number 2 (March 1971), pages 218-234, 5 figures, 3
tables.

Kim, K. C., and K. C. Emerson. “‘Anoplura from Mozambique with Descrip-
tions of New Species and Nymphal Stages. Revue de Zoologie et de Botanique
Africaines, volume 81 (1970), pages 383-416.

Klein, J. M. “A New Species of Culex (Neoculex) from Cambodia. (Diptera:
Culicidae).” Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Washington, volume
72, number 4 (December 1970), pages 504-506.

Knight, Kenneth L., and Jean Laffoon. “A Mosquito ‘Taxonomic Glossary, III:
Adult Thorax.” Mosquito Systematics Newsletter, volume 2, number 3 (Au-
gust 1970), pages 132-148.

“A Mosquito Taxonomic Glossary, IV: Adult Thoracic Appendages.
Mosquito Systematics Newsletter, volume 2, number 4 (November 1970), pages

165-178.

“A Mosquito ‘Taxonomic Glossary, V: Abdomen (Except Female
Genitalia). Mosquito Systematics Newsletter, volume 3, number 1 (March
1971), pages 8-24.

Krombein, Karl V. “Another Note on the Nesting Habits of Megachile texana
Cresson (Hymenoptera: Megachilidae).”” Proceedings of the Entomological So-
ciety of Washington, volume 72 (1970), page 415.

Smithsonian Explorations in Africa.” Address of retiring President,
Entomological Society of Washington, 7 January 1971.

“Bugs, Animals and Things in Africa.” Address at Cosmos Club,
19 April 1971.

Krombein, Karl V., and Dorothy B. Krombein. “From Nymph to Noise to
Nymph Again; The Cicadas All Take Their Time.” Smithsonian, volume 2,
number 2 (May 1971), pages 56-63, 8 colored plates.

Lane, John. “The Collection at USNM/SEAMP.” Mosquito Systematics News-
letter, volume 2, number 3 (August 1970), pages 83-86.

Mattingly, Peter F. “Contributions to the Mosquito Fauna of Southeast Asia,
VI: The Genus Heizmannia Ludlow in Southeast Asia.” Contributions to the
American Entomological Institute, volume 5, number 7 (August 1970), pages
1-104.

Muesebeck, C. F. W. “A New Mealybug Parasite from Japan.” Proceedings
of the Entomological Society of Washington, volume 72 (1970), pages 318-319.

Peyton, E. L., and J. M. Klein. “Five New Species of Uranataenia from South-
east Asia (Diptera-Culicidae).” Proceedings of the Entomological Society of
Washington, volume 72, number 2 (June 1970), pages 243-251.

Peyton, E. F., and Rampa Rattanarithikul. “Five Additional New Species of
Uranotaenia from Southeast Asia.” Proceedings of the Entomological Society
of Washington, volume 72, number 3 (September 1970), pages 403-413.

Reinert, John F. “Contributions to the Mosquito Fauna of Southeast Asia, V:
Genus Aedes, Subgenus Diceromyia Theobald in Southeast Asia.” Contribu-
tions to the American Entomological Institute, volume 5, number 4 (6 April
1970), pages 1-48.

“The Zoogeography of dedes (Diceromyia) Theobald.” Journal of
the Entomological Society of South Africa, volume 33, number 1 (1970), pages
129-14 1-

“Current Study of Genus Culex in Southeast Asia.” Mosquito
Systematics Newsletter, volume 2, number 2 (May 1970), pages 48-52.
APPENDIX 6. PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN STAFF 183

“Culex Neoculex Nematoides (Dyar and Shannon 1925): An Errone-
ous Record from the Philippines (Diptera: Culicidae).” Mosquito Systematics
Newsletter, volume 3, number | (March 1971), pages 1-3.

Sirivanakarn, S. ‘Contributions to the Mosquito Fauna of Southeast Asia, IX:
The Genus Orthopodomyia Theobald in Southeast Asia. Contributions to the
American Entomological Institute, volume 7, number 3 (May 1971), pages 1-37.

Spangler, Paul J. “Collecting Waterbeetles in South America.” Lecture Wash-
ington Entomological Society, 5 February 1970.

“Aquatic Insects and Their Relationships to Their Environment.”
Lecture. Smithsonian Associates, Washington, D.C., 2 November 1970.

Traub, R., A. Beg Mirza, M. Nadchatham, and E. B. Mann. “Survey of Bulolo
for Fleas and Trombiculid Mites.” Papua and New Guinea Medical Journal,
volume 13, number 2 (1970), pages 62-64.

Tyson, W. H. “Notes on African Aedes, Subgenus Mucidus.” Journal of the
Entomological Society of South Africa, volume 33, number 1 (1970), pages
81-88.

“Contributions to the Mosquito Fauna of Southeast Asia, VII: The
Aedeomyia of Southeast Asia; and VIII: The Aedes (Mucidus) of Southeast
Asia.” Contributions to the American Entomological Institute, volume 6,
number 2 (August 1970), pages 1-80.

Zavortink, Thomas J. “Contributions to the Mosquito Fauna of Southeast
Asia, IX: The Genus Orthopodomyia Theobald in Southeast Asia.” Contri-
butions to the American Entomological Institute, volume 7, number 3 (May
1971), pages 1-37.

DEPARTMENT OF INVERTEBRATE ZOOLOGY

Barnard, J. Laurens. “Gammaridean Amphipods from a Deep-Sea Transect off
Oregon.” Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology, number 61 (4 January 1971),
86 pages, 48 figures, | table.

“The Identity of Dexamonica and Prinassus with a Revision of
Dexaminidae (Amphipoda).” Crustaceana 19: 161-180, figs. 1-7, 1970. 7 figures.

Barnard, J. Laurens, and Gray W. Scott. “South African Ampelisca excavata
K. H. Barnard (Amphipoda, Gammaridea): A Redescription with Notes on
the Domicile.” Crustaceana, number 19 (1970), pages 67-83, 5 figures.

Bourdon, Roland, and Thomas E. Bowman. “Western Atlantic Species of the
Parasitic Genus Leidya (Epicaridea: Bopyridae).” Proceedings of the Biological
Society of Washington, volume 83, number 36 (September 1970), pages 409-
a2

Bowman, Thomas E. The Distribution of Calanoid Copepods off the South-
eastern United States Between Cape Hatteras and Southern Florida. Smith-
sonian Contributions to Zoology, number 96 (21 May 1971), 58 pages, 51 figures.

“Excirolana kumari, A New Tubicolous Isopod from Malaysia.”
Crustaceana, volume 20, part | (1971).

Chace, Fenner A., Jr. “A New Shrimp of the Genus Lysmata (Decapoda, Hip-
polytidae) from the Western Atlantic.” Crustaceana, volume 19, number 1,
pages 59-66.

Chace, Fenner A., Jr., and J. Forest. “Henri Coutiére: Son oeuvre carcinologique
avec un index pour son mémoire de 1899 sur Les Alpheidae.” Bulletin du
Muséum National d’Histoire Naturelle (Paris), series 2, volume 41, number
6, pages 1459-1486.
184 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 197)

Chace, Fenner A., Jr., and Samuel L. H. Fuller. “A New Shrimp of the Genus
Gnathophyllum (Decapoda, Caridea) from Puerto Rico.” Proceedings of the
Biological Society of Washington, volume 83, number 44 (February 1971),
pages 493-504.

Child, C. Allan. “Pycnogonida of the Smithsonian-Bredin Pacific Expedition,
1957. Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington, volume 83, number
27 (September 1970), pages 287-308.

Cressey, Roger F. “Copepods Parasitic on Sharks from the West Coast of Flor-
ida.” Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology, number 38 (30 December 1970),
30 pages, 110 figures, 1 table.

Cressey, Roger F., and Bruce B. Collette. ‘“Copepods and Needlefishes: A Study
in Host-Parasite Relationships.” Fishery Bulletin, volume 86, number 3 (1970),
pages 347-432.

Cressey, Roger F., and Ernest A. Lachner. “The Parasitic Copepod Diet and
Life History of Diskfishes (Echeneidae).” Copeia, number 2 (June 1970), pages
310-318.

Downey, Maureen E. ‘“Marsipaster acicula, New Species (Asteroidea: Echino-
dermata) from the Caribbean and Gulf of Mexico.” Proceedings of the Bio-
logical Society of Washington, volume 83, number 28 (September 1970), pages
309-312.

“Zorocallida, New Order, and Doraster constellatus, New Genus
and Species, with Notes on the Zoroasteridae (Echinodermata: Asteroidea).”
Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology, number 64 (30 July 1970), 18 pages,
11 figures, 2 tables.

Forstner, Helmut, and Klaus Riietzler. “Measurements of the Micro-climate in
Littoral Marine Habitats.” Oceanographic Marine Biology Annual Review,
volume 8 (1970), pages 225-249.

Hobbs, Horton H., Jr. “New Crayfishes of the Genus Cambarus from Tennessee
and Georgia (Decapoda, Astacidea).” Proceedings of the Biological Society of
Washington, volume 84, number 23 (September 1970), pages 241-260.

“A New Crayfish of the Genus Procambarus from Mississippi
(Decapoda: Astacidea).”” Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington,
volume 83, number 40 (February 1971), pages 459-468.

“The Cave Crayfishes of North America.” Lecture. Baltimore
Grotto of the National Speleological Society. December 1970.

Holthuis, L. B., and Raymond B. Manning. “The Porcellanidae, Hippidae, and
Albuneidae (Crustacea, Decapoda), The R/V Pillsbury Deep-Sea Biological
Expedition to the Gulf of Guinea, 1964-65.” Studies in Tropical Oceanography,
Miami, volume 4, part 2 (1970), pages 241-255.

Hope, W. Duane. “6-10. Nematoda.” In N. C. Hulings and J. S. Gray, editors,
“A Manual for the Study of Meiofauna,” Smithsonian Contributions to Zool-
ogy, number 78 (27 April 1971), pages 41-42.

Hope, W. Duane, and D. G. Murphy. “A Redescription of Enoplus groen-
landicus Ditlevsen, 1926 (Nematoda: Enoplidae).”” Proceedings of the Biological
Society of Washington, volume 83, pages 227-240.

“Procedures for the Preparation of Nematodes and Other Soft-
bodied Organisms for Scanning Electron Microscopy.” Paper presented to
Washington Area Scanning Electron Microscopists. March 1971.

Jones, Meredith L. “The Presence of Certain Dehydrogenases among Poly-
chaetous Annelids as Shown by Disc Electrophoresis.’”” Comparative Biochem-
istry and Physiology, volume 36, pages 605-611, 1970.
APPENDIX 6. PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN STAFF 185

“The Panamic Biota—A Point of Departure Prior to a Sea-level
Canal.” Lecture. Biological Society of Washington Symposium Introduction.
March 1971.

Kenk, Roman. ‘Freshwater Triclads (Turbellaria) of North America, III: Sphal-
loplana weingartneri, New Species, from a Cave in Indiana.” Proceedings of the
Biological Society of Washington, volume 83, pages 313-320.

“Freshwater Triclads (Turbellaria) of North America, IV: The
Polypharyngeal Species of Phagocata.”” Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology,
number 80 (30 December 1970), 17 pages, 9 figures.

Manning, Raymond B. “A New Genus and Species of Stomatopod Crustacean
from Madagascar.” Bulletin du Museum National d’Histoire Naturelle,
(Paris), series 2, volume 42, number 1 (1970), pages 206-209.

“Mithrax (Mithraculus) commensalis, A New West Indian Spider
Crab (Decapoda, Majidae) Commensal with a Sea Anemone.” Crustaceana,
volume 19, part 2 (1970), pages 157-161.

“Two New Stomatopod Crustaceans from Australia,’ Records of
the Australian Museum, volume 28, number 4 (1970), pages 77-85.

“Keys to the Species of Oratosquilla (Crustacea: Stomatopoda), with
Descriptions of Two New Species.” Sinithsonian Contributions to Zoology,
number 71 (14 January 1971), 16 pages, 4 figures.

“The Stomatopod Crustacea. The R/V Pillsbury Deep-Sea Bio-
logical Expedition to the Gulf of Guinea, 1964-65.” Studies in Tropical
Oceanography, Miami, volume 4, part 2 (1970), pages 255-275.

Manning, Raymond B., and Fenner A. Chace, Jr. “Shrimps of the Family Pro-
cessidae from the Northwestern Atlantic Ocean (Crustacea: Decapoda:
Caridea).” Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology, number 89, (21 May 1971),
41 pages, 20 figures.

Manning, Raymond B., and A. Michel. “A New Autrosquilla (Stomatopoda)
from the Marquesas Islands.” Crustaceana, volume 20, part 3, pages 237-240,
1 figure.

Morrison, Joseph P. E. “Figures for East Florida Donax.” Seafari, volume 12
(September 1970), number 8, page 5.

“Athearnia, New Name for a Genus of Pleurocerid Snails.” Nau-
tilus, volume 84, part 3 (January 1971), pages 110-111.

“Names for the Subfamily Hydrobiinae.” American Malacological
Union Annual Report for 1970 (February 1971), pages 7-8.

“Western Atlantic Donax.” Proceedings of the Biological Society
of Washington, volume 83, number 48 (February 1971), pages 545-568.

“Comments on Gastrochaena.” Seafari, volume 13, number 2
(March 1971), page 7.

“Numbers for the Subfamily Hydrobiinae.” Paper presented at
American Malacological Union Meeting, Key West, Florida. July 1970.

“Beachcombing and Collecting.” SI Associates Beachcombing trip.
Sanibel, Florida, 11 and 13 November 1970.

“Conservation of Molluscan Species.” Lecture to the National
Capital Shell Club. February 1971.

Pawson, David L. “Echinoderm Studies in Southern Chile.” Antarctic Journal
(September-October 1970).

“The Marine Fauna of New Zealand: Sea Cucumbers (Echino-
dermata: Holothuroidea).” New Zealand Oceanographic Institute Memoir,
number 52 (1970), pages 1-69.
186 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1971

“Coral Reefs and the Crown-of-Thorns Starfish.” Lecture. Bermuda
Biological Station. 28 July 1970.

“Can the Phylum Echinodermata be Defined?” Lecture. Zoology
Department, University of South Florida, Tampa. 3 December 1970.

“Evolution and Relationships of Echinoderms.” Lecture. Zoology
Department, University of South Florida, Tampa. 4 December 1970.

Pérez, Isabel Farfante. “Western Atlantic Shrimps of the Genus Metapenaeopsis
(Crustacea, Decapoda, Penaeidae), with Descriptions of Three New Species.”
Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology, number 79 (10 March 1971), 37 pages,
22 figures, 1 table.

Pequegnat, Willis E., and Fenner A. Chace, Jr., editors. “Contributions on the
Biology of the Gulf of Mexico.” Texas A&M University Oceanographic Studies,
volume I, xvi + 270 pages.

Pettibone, Marian H. “Two New Genera of Sigalionidae (Polychaeta).’’ Pro-
ceedings of the Biological Society of Washington, volume 83, number 34 (Sep-
tember 1970), pages 365-386.

“Revision of the Genus Euthalenessa Darboux (Polychaeta: Siga-
lionidae).” Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology, number 52 (16 July 1970),
30 pages, 16 figures.

————.. “Revision of Some Species Referred to Leanira Kinberg (Polychaeta:
Sigalionidae).” Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology, number 53 (6 August
1970), 25 pages, 12 figures.

Rehder, Harald A. “A Molluscan Faunule from 200 Meters off Valparaiso, Chile,
with Descriptions of Four New Species.” Proceedings of the Biological Society
of Washington, volume 83, number 51 (9 February 1971), pages 585-596.

“Comment on the Request for Validation of Murex lotorium Lin-
naceus, 1758 (Gastropoda) in its Accustomed Sense Z.N. (S). 1886.’ Bulletin of
Zoological Nomenclature, volume 27, part 2 (10 August 1970), page 67.

“Malacological Expedition to the Tropical South Pacific.” Na-
tional Geographic Society Research Report (1965 projects), pages 213-218.

Rice, Mary E. “Observations on the Development of Six Species of Caribbean
Sipuncula with a Review of Development in the Phylum.” Paper presented at
the International Symposium on the Biology of the Sipuncula. June 1970.

—. “Survey of the Sipuncula of the Coral and Beachrock Communities
of the Caribbean Sea.” Paper presented at the International Symposium on
the Biology of the Sipuncula. June 1970.

Rice, Mary E., and A. C. Stephen. “The Type Specimens of Sipuncula and
Echiura Described by J. E. Gray and W. Baird in the Collections of the British
Museum (N.H.).” Bulletin of the British Museum, (Zoology) volume 20, num-
ber 2 (1970).

Roper, Clyde F. E., and R. H. Gibbs. “Ocean Acre: Preliminary Report on
Vertical Distribution of Fishes and Cephalopods.” In G. B. Farqubar, editor,
Proceedings of an International Symposium on Biological Sound Scattering
in the Ocean, pages 129-135. Washington, D.C.: Naval Oceanographic Office.

Roper, Clyde F. E., R. H. Gibbs and W. Aron. “Ocean Acre: An Interim Re-
port.” 32 pages, 27 figures. Washington, D.C.: Office of Environmental Sciences,
Smithsonian Institution.

Rosewater, Joseph. “The Family Littorinidae in the Indo-Pacific, Part I: The
Subfamily Littorininae.” Indo-Pacific Mollusca, volume 2, number 11 (1970),
pages 417-506, 64 plates.
APPENDIX 6. PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN STAFF 187

“A Malacological Collecting Expedition, Molluccas Islands.’ Lec-
ture. Public Schools, Midland, Texas, February 1971.

Rutzler, Klaus. “Spatial Competition Among Porifera: Solution by Epizoism.”
Oecologia (Berlin), volume 5 (1970), pages 85-95.

————. “Bredin-Archbold-Smithsonian Biological Survey of Dominica: Bur-
rowing Sponges, Genus Siphonodictyon Bergquist, from the Caribbean.”
Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology, number 77 (24 February 1971), 37 pages,
11 figures, 9 plates, 2 tables.

“The Mangrove Community, Aspects of Its Structure, Faunistics
and Ecology.” Pages 515-536 in Memoir of the International Symposium on
Coastal Lagunes (Origin, Dynamics, and Productivity). México, D.F.: Universi-
dad Nacional AutOnoma de México, 1970.

MINERAL SCIENCES

Arem, J. E. “Preserving Mineral Localities.” Mineralogical Record, volume 1
(1970), page 39.

————.. “Treasurehouse of the Nation.” Rock and Gem, volume | (1971),
pages 30-37.

Arem, J. E., and J. Ito. ‘“‘Chevkinite and Perrierite: Synthesis, Crystal Growth
and Polymorphism.” American Mineralogist, volume 56 (1971), pages 307-319.

Clarke, R. S., Jr. “The Allende, Mexico Meteorite Shower.’ Lecture. The Geo-
logy Club, Lafayette College, Pennsylvania, 5 May 1971.

Clarke, Roy S., Jr., R. J. Gettens, and W. T. Chase. “Two Early Chinese Bronze
Weapons with Meteoritic Iron Blades.” Freer Galley of Art Occasional Paper,
volume 4, number 1 (1971).

Clarke, Roy S., Jr., E. Jarosewich, B. Mason, J. Nelen, M. Gomez, and J. R. Hyde.
“The Allende, Mexico, Meteorite Shower.” Smithsonian Contributions to the
Earth Sciences, number 5 (17 February 1971), 53 pages, 36 figures.

Clarke, Roy S., Jr., E. Jarosewich, and J. Nelen. “The Lost City, Oklahoma,
Meteorite: An Introduction to its Laboratory Investigation and Comparisons
with Pribram and Ucera.” Journal of Geophysical Research, volume 76, num-
ber 17 (1971), pages 4135-4143.

Desautels, P. E. “A Top Collection for Experts and Amateurs to Envy.”
Smithsonian, volume 1, number 4 (July 1970), pages 44-51.

“For a Little Bit of Data You Need a Big Machine.” Smithsonian,
volume 1, number 12 (March 1971), pages 46-49.

Fredriksson, Kurt. “Impact of Microprobe Analysis on the Characterization
of Lunar Samples.’”” Lecture. Society for Applied Spectroscopy, New Orleans,
October 1970.

“Impact-ignimbrites.” Lecture. Meeting on Impact and Volcanism,
Houston, October 1970.

“Sialic Components in Mare Procellarum Soil.” Lecture. Second
Lunar Science Conference, Houston, January 1971.

“Terrestrial and Lunar Impact-ignimbrites.” Lecture. Museum
d’Histoire Naturelle, Paris, May 1971.

Fredriksson, K., A. M. Reid, M. N. Bass, H. Funita, and J. F. Kerridge. “Olivine
and Pyroxene in the Orgueil Meteorite.’”” Geochimica et Cosmochimica Data,
volume 34 (1970), pages 1253-1254.

Jarosewich, E. “Chemical Analysis of the Murchison Meteorite.’ Meteoritics,
volume 1 (1971), pages 49-51.

441-283 O- 71 - 13
188 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1971

Jarosewich, E., and E. Olsen. ‘“The Chemical Composition of the Silicate In-
clusions in the Weekeroo Station Iron Meteorite.” Earth and Planetary Science
Letters, volume 8 (1970), pages 261-266.

Jarosewich, E., and G. R. Levi-Donati. ‘The Valdinizza Meteorite, Mineralogy,
Chemistry and Microstructure.” Meteoritics, volume 1 (1971), pages 1-14.

Mason, B. Principles of Geochemistry (Japanese translation). 402 pages. Tokyo:
Iwanami Station, 1970.

Principles of Geochemistry (Russian translation). 311 pages. Mos-
cow: Nedra, 1971.

“Meteorites.” In I. G. Gass, editor, Understanding the Earth, pages
114-121. Sussex, England: Artemis Press, 1971.

Mason, B., K. Fredriksson, E. P. Henderson, E. Jarosewich, W. G. Melson, K. M.
Towe, and J. S. White, Jr. “Mineralogy and Petrology of Lunar Samples.”
Proceedings of the Apollo 11 Lunar Science Conference 1970, pages 655-660.

Mason, B., and A. L. Graham. ‘Minor and Trace Elements in Meteoritic Min-
erals.” Smithsonian Contributions to the Earth Sciences, number 3 (17 Sep-
tember 1970), 17 pages, 1 figure, 17 tables.

Mason, B., and W. G. Melson. The Lunar Rocks. 179 pages. New York: John
Wiley & Sons, 1970.

“Comparison of Lunar Rocks and Basalts and Stony Meteorites.”
Proceedings of the Apollo 11 Lunar Science Conference 1970, pages 661-671.

Melson, W. G. “Volcanic Rocks Recovered on Leg 6.” Initial Reports of the
Deep Sea Drilling Project (1971), pages 1119-1120.

Melson, William G., Eugene Jarosewich, and Charles A. Lundquist. “Volcanic
Eruption at Metis Shoal, Tonga, 1967-1968: Description and Petrology.”
Smithsonian Contributions to the Earth Sciences, number 4 (16 October 1970),
18 pages, 13 figures, 3 tables.

Melson, W. G., and G. Thompson. “Petrology of a Transform Fault Zone and
Adjacent Ridge Segments.” Transactions of the Royal Society of London, A.,
volume 268, pages 423-441.

Nelen, J., M. Christophe-Michel-Levy, and R. Caye. “A New Mineral in the
Vigarano Meteorite.” Meteoritics, volume 4 (1970), page 211.

Switzer, G. “Origin and Composition of Rock Fulgurite Glass.” Lecture. Meet-
ing of the International Mineralogical Society, Kyoto, Japan, September 1970.

White, J. S., Jr. “New Data for Plattnerite.” Mineralogical Record, volume 1
(1970), pages 75-80.

White, J. S., Jr., P. B. Leavens, and M. H. Hey. “Eakerite—A New Tin Silicate.”
Mineralogical Record, volume 1 (1970), pages 92-96.

White, J. S., Jr., and E. Jarosewich. “Second Occurrence of Benstonite.” Min-
eralogical Record, volume | (1970), pages 141-142.

DEPARTMENT OF PALEOBIOLOGY

Adey, Walter H. “The Effects of Light and Temperature on Growth Rates in
Boreal Subarctic Crustose Corallines.” Journal of Phycology, volume 6 (1970),
pages 269-276.

“The Crustose Corallines of the Northwestern North Atlantic, Incl.
Lithothamnium Lemoineae n. sp.” Journal of Phycology, volume 6 (1970),
pages 225-229.
APPENDIX 6. PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN STAFF 189

“A Revision of the Foslie Crustose Coralline Herbarium.” Det
Konglige Norske Videnskabis Selskad Skrifter (1970), 46 pages.

“Some Relationships Between Crustose Corallines and Their Sub-
strate.” Scientia Islandica, volume 2 (1970), pages 21-25.

“Investigations on the Crustose Corallines of the Northeastern
North Atlantic.” National Geographic Society Research Report for 1965
(1970), pages 1-9.

——. “Ecology of Crustose Corallines.” Lecture. University of Miami,
Florida, October 1970; and British Museum, London, December 1970.

Adey, Walter H., and D. L. McKibbin. “Studies on the Maerl Species Phy-
matolithon calcareum and Lithothamnium coralloides.’ Botanica Marina, vol-
ume 13 (1970), pages 100-106.

Adey, Walter H., and C. P. Sperapani. “The Biology of Kvaleya epilaeve, A
New Parasitic Genus and Species of Corallinaceae.” Phycologia, volume 10
(1970), pages 29-42.

Benson, Richard H. “Architectural Solutions to Structural Stress in Rigid
Micro-organisms, through SEM Examination.” Cambridge Proceedings, Stereo-
scan SEM Colloquium, Third Annual (1970), pages 71-78.

“Deep-Sea Ostracodes and ‘Tethys.” Colloquium of the Paleo-
ecology of Ostracodes, July 1970.

“Deep-Sea Ostracodes and Tethys.” Lecture. Paleontological So-
ciety of Washington, Washington, D.C., September 1970.

“Continental Drift and the Tethys Ocean.” Lecture. Washington
Geological Society, Washington, D. C., October 1970.

“In Search of Lost Oceans.” Lecture. Smithsonian Associates, Wash-
ington, D.C., April 1971.

“Problems, Paradigms and Paradoxes in Paleontology.’
Geology Department Honors Banquet, Lawrence, Kansas, April 1971.

“In Search of Lost Oceans.” Geology Department, University of
Kansas, Lawrence, Kansas, April 1971.

Lecture.

“On the Study of an Ostracode Genus.” Lecture. Geology Depart-
ment, University of Kansas, Lawrence, Kansas, April 1971.

Benson, Richard H., and P. C. Sylvester-Bradley. “Terminology for Surface
Features in the Ornate Ostracodes.” Lethaia, volume 4, number 3 (1971), 38
pages, 50 figures.

Buzas, Martin A. “On the Quantification of Biofacies.” Proceedings of the
North American Paleontological Convention, Chicago, 1969, (1970), pages
101-116.

“Spatial Homogeneity: Statistical Analyses of Unispecies and Multi-
species Populations of Foraminifera.” Ecology, volume 51 (1970), pages 874-
879.

Cheetham, Alan H. “‘‘Measurement and Evaluation of Morphologic Variation
in Cheilostome Bryozoa.” Lecture. Western Maryland College, November 1970.

“Evolutionary History of Cheilostome Bryozoa.” Three lectures
with laboratory demonstrations at George Washington University, November
1970.

“The Use of Principal Components Analysis in Morphometric
Evolutionary Trends in Cheilostome Bryozoa.”’ Two lectures to graduate
seminar in paleontology, George Washington University, March 197].

Cheetham, Alan H., R. S. Boardman, and P. L. Cook. “TIntracolony Variation
and the Genus Concept in Bryozoa.” Proceedings of the North American
190 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 197]

Paleontological Convention, Chicago, 1969, Part C (1970), pages 294-320, 12
text-figures.

Cooper, G. Arthur. ‘“‘Generic Characters of Brachiopods.” Proceedings of the
North American Paleontological Convention, Chicago, 1969, Part C (1970),
pages 194-263, 5 plates.

————. “Brachiopoda: Japanithyris is Campages.” Journal of Paleontology,
volume 44, number 5 (1970), pages 898-904, plate 129.

Dutro, J. Thomas, editor. “Paleozoic Perspectives: A Paleontological ‘Tribute
to G. Arthur Cooper.” Smithsonian Contributions to Paleobiology, number 3
(22 February 1971), 390 pages, illustrated.

Emery, Robert J. “A North American Oligocene Pangolin and Other Additions
to the Pholidota.” Bulletin of the American Museum of Natural History, vol-
ume 142, article 6 (1970), pages 455-510, figures 1-32.

Hickey, Leo J. ‘Plant History.” Two lectures. Botany Department, University
of Maryland, fall 1970, spring 1971.

“Paleobotany.” Lecture. Phi Sigma chapter, University of Mary-
land, December 1970.

“New Evidence on Early Angiosperm Evolution.” Seminar. Botany
Department, Smithsonian Institution, May 1971.

Hotton, Nicholas III. “Mauchchunkia bassa, gen. et sp. nov., An Anthrocosaur
(Amphibia, Labyrinthodontia) from the Upper Mississippian.” Kirtlandia, vol-
ume 12 (1970), pages 1-38.

———. “Dinosaurs and Other Fossil Reptiles.” Lecture. Smithsonian Asso-
ciates, January 1971.

“Vertebrate Problems Associated with Continental Drift.’ Lecture.
Paleontological Society of Washington, March 1971.

“Vertebrate Problems Associated with Continental Drift.” Lecture.
Geology Department, University of Pennsylvania, April 1971.

“Origins of Vertebrate Classes.” Proceedings of the North Ameri-
can Paleontological Convention, Chicago, 1969, Part H (1971), pages 1146-
1152.

Hueber, Francis M. “Rebwuchia, A New Name for Bucheria Dorf.” Taxon, vol-
ume 19, number 5 (1970), page 822.

Kier, Porter M. “Functional Morphology of Living and Fossil Echinoids.” Lec-
ture. University of Pennsylvania, spring 1971.

Pierce, J. W. “Clay Mineralogy of Cores from the Continental Shelf Margin of
North Carolina.” Southeastern Geology, volume 12, (1970), pages 33-51.

“Coastal Changes in North Carolina.” Lecture. Symposium, Duke
University, Marine Laboratory, December 1970.

Pierce, J. W., and D. J. Colquhoun. “Configuration of the Holocene Primary
Barrier Chain, Outer Banks, North Carolina.” Southeastern Geology, volume
11 (1970), pages 231-236.

“Holocene Evolution of a Portion of the North Carolina Coast.”
Geological Society of America Bulletin, volume 81 (1970), pages 3697-3714.

Pierce, J. W., and T. C. Huang. “The Carbonate Minerals of Deep-Sea Bio-
clastic Turbidites, Southern Blake Basin.’ Jowrnal of Sedimentary Petrology,
volume 41 (1970), pages 251-260.

Pierce, J. W., and D. D. Nelson. “Suspended Sediment in Waters off the South-
eastern United States.” Paper. Annual Meeting, Southeastern Section, Geo-
logical Society of America, Blacksburg, Virginia, May 197].
APPENDIX 6. PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN STAFF 19]

“Clay Minerals and Sedimentology in the Pamlico Sound Region,
North Carolina.” Paper. Annual Meeting, Southeastern Section, Geological
Society of America, Blacksburg, Virginia, May 1971.

Pierce, J. W., and D. J. Stanley. “Readings in Suspended Sediment Technology.”
In The New Concepts of Continental Margin Sedimentation, Supplement,
American Geological Institute, DSJP 1-7, 1970.

Ray, Clayton E. “Polar Bear and Mammoth on the Pribilof Islands.” Arctic,
1971:

Stanley, D. J. “The New Concepts of Continental Margin Sedimentation.”
Paper. American Geological Institute, Houston, Texas.

Stanley, Daniel J., and Noel P. James. “Distribution of Echinarachnius parma
(Lamarck) and Associated Fauna on Sable Island Bank, Southeast Canada.”
Smithsonian Contributions to the Earth Sciences, number 6 (27 April 1971),
24 pages, 8 figures, 6 plates, 1 table.

Waller, Thomas R. “The Glass Scallop Propeamussium, A Living Relict of the
Past.” Annual Report of the American Malacological Union for 1970 (1971),
pages 5-7.

DEPARTMENT OF VERTEBRATE ZOOLOGY

Amadon, Dean, Eugene Eisenmann, George E. Watson, III, and Alexander Wet-
more. “Plautus or Plotus Gunnerus, 1761, Plautus Klein, 1760, Plotus Lin-
naeus, Plautus Brunnich, 1772 (Aves): Proposed Rejection or Suppression
under the Plenary Powers.” Bulletin of Zoological Nomenclature, volume 27,
part 2 (1970), pages 110-112.

Bailey, Reeve M., John E. Fitch, Earl S. Herald, Ernest A. Lachner, C. C. Lind-
sey, C. Richard Robins, and W. B. Scott. “A List of Common and Scientific
Names of Fishes from the United States and Canada.” American Fisheries
Society, Special Publication Number 6 (1970), third edition, 149 pages.

Banks, Richard C. “The Fox Sparrow on the West Slope of the Oregon Cas-
cades.”” The Condor, volume 72, number 3 (July 1970), pages 369-370.

“Birds Imported into the United States in 1968.” U.S. Department
of the Interior, Fish and Wildlife Service, Bureau of Sport Fisheries and
Wildlife, Special Scientific Report—Wildlife, number 136 (September 1970),
ii + 64 pages.

“Re-evaluation of Two Supposed Hybrid Birds.” The Wilson
Bulletin, volume 82, number 3 (September 1970), pages 331-332.

“On Ecotypic Variation in Birds.” Evolution, volume 24, number
4 (29 December 1970), pages 829-831.

Cressey, Roger F., and Ernest A. Lachner. “The Parasitic Copepod Diet and
Life History of Diskfishes (Echeneidae).’”’ Copeia, number 2 (1970), pages 310-
318.

Gibbs, Robert H., Jr., and Jon C. Staiger. “Eastern Tropical Atlantic Flying
Fishes of the Genus Cypselurus.” Studies in Tropical Biology, number 4,
part 2 (1970), pages 432-466.

Gibbs, Robert H., Jr., and Clyde F. E. Roper. “Ocean Acre: Preliminary Report
on Vertical Distribution of Fishes and Cephalopods.” Proceedings of an Inter-
national Symposium on Biological Sound Scattering in the Ocean (1971), Report
number 005, pages 120-135. Maury Center for Ocean Science, Department
of Navy.
192 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1971

Goodyear, Richard H., and Robert H. Gibbs, Jr. “Ergebnisse der Forschungs-
reisen des FFS ‘Walther Herwig’ nach Siidamerica, X: Systematics and Zooge-
ography of Stomiatoid Fishes of the Astronesthes cyaneus Species Group
(Family Astronesthidae), with Descriptions of Three New Species.” Arch.
Fischereiwiss (1969), volume 20, number 2/3 (1970), pages 107-131.

Handley, Charles O., Jr.. and J. R. Choate. “The Correct Name for the Least
Short-tailed Shrew (Cryptotis parva) of Guatemala (Mammalia: Insectivora).”
Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington, volume 83 (1970), pages
195-2018

“Appalachian Mammalian Geography.” Lecture delivered at Sym-
posium on the Distributional History of the Biota of the Southern Appalach-
ians, Virginia Polytechnic Institute, Blacksburg, Virginia, June 1970.

“Natural History of the Kalahari Bushmen.” Lecture delivered at
the University of Virginia, July 1970.

“Zoogeography of Appalachian Mammals.” Lecture delivered at
the University of Virginia, August 1970.

“Mammalogy in Panama.” Lecture delivered before Biological So-
ciety of Washington Symposium on Biota of Panama, March 1971.

Heyer, W. Ronald, and James A. Peters. “The Frog Genus Leptodactylus in
Ecuador.” Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington, volume 84,
number 19 (30 June 1971), pages 163-170.

Hubbard, John P., and Richard C. Banks. “The Types of Taxa of Harold H.
Bailey.” Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington, volume 83, num-
ber 30 (25 September 1970), pages 321-332.

Jones, Clyde. “Mammals Imported into the United States in 1968.’ U.S. De-
partment of the Interior, Fish and Wildlife Service, Bureau of Sport Fisheries
and Wildlife, Special Scientific Report—Wildlife, number 137 (1970), 30 pages.

“Notes on Hairy Frogs (Trichobatrachus robustus Boulenger) Col-
lected in Rio Muni, West Africa.” Herpetologica, volume 27 (1971), pages 51-54.

“The Bats of Rio Muni, West Africa.” Journal of Mammalogy,
volume 52 (1971), pages 121-140.

Jones, Clyde, and J. Sabater Pi. “Comparative Ecology of Gorilla gorilla (Savage
and Wyman) and Pan troglodytes (Blumenbach) in Rio Muni, West Africa.”
Bibliotheca Primatologica, volume 13 (1971), iv + 96 pages.

Jones, Clyde, and Henry W. Setzer. “Comments on Myosciurus pumilio.” Jour-
nal of Mammalogy, volume 51 (1970), pages 813-814.

“The Designation of a Holotype of the West African Pygmy Squir-
rel, Myosciurus pumilio (Leconte, 1857) (Mammalia: Rodentia).” Proceedings
of the Biological Society of Washington, volume 84, number 8 (30 June 1971),
pages 59-64.

Jones, J., Jr., and Clyde Jones. “Dates of Publication of Numbers in the North
American Fauna Series.” Journal of Mammalogy, volume 51 (1970), page 845.

Lachner, Ernest A., C. Richard Robins, and Walter R. Courtenay, Jr. “Exotic
Fishes and Other Aquatic Organisms Introduced into North America.” Smith-
sonian Contributions to Zoology, number 59 (30 September 1970), 29 pages,
4 figures, | table.

Morse, Larry, James A. Peters, and Paul Hamel. “A General Data Format for
Summarizing Taxonomic Information.” BioSciences, volume 21 (1971), pages
174-180 and 186.

Peters, James A. “Generic Position of the South American Snake Tropidodipsas
perijanensis.” Copeia (1970), pages 394-395.
APPENDIX 6. PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN STAFF 193

“Crash Course in Computer Programming in the Language BAsIc.”
Lecture delivered at the Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D.C., 3 July
1970.

“Do Snakes Have Souls?” Interview given on Radio Smithsonian,
Washington, D.C., 27 December 1970.

“Biostatistical Programs in BAsic Language for Time-Shared Com-
puters: Coordinated with the Book ‘Quantitative Zoology.’ ” Smithsonian Con-
tributions to Zoology, number 69 (10 March 1971), 46 pages.

“Further Comment on Rana maculata.” Bulletin of Zoological
Nomenclature, volume 27 (1971), page 133.

Peters, James A., and B. Orejas-Miranda. “Notes on the Hemipenis of Several
Taxa in the Family Leptotyphlopidae.” Herpetologica, volume 26 (1970),
pages 320-324.

Pine, Ronald H., and Dilford C. Carter. ‘‘Distributional Notes on the Thick-
spined Rat (Hoplomys gymnurus) with the First Records from Honduras.”
Journal of Mammalogy, volume 51, number 4 (1970), page 804.

Pine, Ronald H., Iain R. Bishop, and Ruth L. Jackson. “Preliminary List of
Mammals of the Xavantina/Cachimbo Expedition (Central Brazil).” Transac-
tions of the Royal Society of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene, volume 64, num-
ber 5 (1970), pages 668-670.

Schlitter, Duane A., and Kitti Thonglongya. “Rattus turkestanicus (Satunin,
1903), ‘The Valid Name for Rattus rattoides Hodgson, 1845 (Mammalia:
Rodentia).” Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington, volume 84,
number 20 (30 June 1971), pages 171-174.

Setzer, Henry W., and Gary L. Ranck. “A New Gerbil (Genus Gerbillus) from
the Chad.” Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington, volume 84,
number 7 (30 June 1971), pages 55-58.

Smith-Vaniz, William F., and Victor G. Springer. “Synopsis of the Tribe
Salariini, with Description of Five New Genera and Three New Species (Pisces:
Blenniidae).” Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology, number 73 (30 March
1971), 72 pages, 51 figures, 6 tables.

Springer, Victor G. “The Blennies.” Tropical Fish Hobbyist, volume 19 (Octo-
ber 1970), pages 54-66.

“The Western South Atlantic Clinid Fish Ribeiroclinus eigenmanni,
with Discussion of the Intraralationships and Zoogeography of the Clinidae.”
Copeia, number 3 (1970), pages 430-436.

“Revision of the Fish Genus Ecsenius (Blenniidae, Blenniinae,
Salariini).” Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology, number 72 (30 March 1971),
74 pages, 36 figures, 18 tables.

“Mimetic Relationships Involving Blenniid Fishes.” Lecture given
at Smithsonian Institution, Department of Invertebrate Zoology, February
1971; Department of Zoology, Hebrew University, Jerusalem, Israel, March
1971; Chesapeake Biological Laboratory, April 1971; and annual meeting of
American Society of Ichthyologists and Herpetologists, Los Angeles, California,
June 1971.

Stephens, John S., Jr., and Victor G. Springer. ““Neoclinus nudus, New Scaleless
Clinid Fish from Taiwan, with a Key to Neoclinus.” Proceedings of the Bio-
logical Society of Washington, volume 84, number 9 (1971), pages 65-72.

Taylor, William R., Robert E. Jenkins, and Ernest A. Lachner. “Rediscovery
and Description of the Ictalurid Catfish, Noturus flavipinnis.” Proceedings of
194 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1971

the Biological Society of Washington, volume 83, number 41 (1971), pages
469-476.

Thorington, Richard W., Jr., and C. P. Groves. “An Annotated Classification
of the Cercopithecoidea.” In Old World Monkeys, pages 629-647. New York
and London: Academic Press, Inc., 1970.

“Feeding Behavior of Nonhuman Primates in the Wild.” In Feed-
ing and Nutrition of Nonhuman Primates, pages 15-27. New York: Academic
Press, Inc... 970:

“The Interpretation of Data in Systematics.” In Old World Mon-
keys, pages 3-15. New York and London: Academic Press, Inc., 1970.

—————. “The Taxonomy of Primates Used in Viral Research.” Lecture
given at Southwest Foundation for Research and Education, Virus Workshop,
San Antonio, Texas, April 1971.

Watson, George E. “A Presumed Wild Hybrid Baldpate x Eurasian Wigeon.”
Auk, volume 87, number 2 (1970), pages 353-357.

“A Shearwater Mortality on the Atlantic Coast.” Atlantic Natur-
alist, volume 25, number 2 (1970), pages 75-80.

“Molting Greater Shearwaters (Pujtinus gravis) off Tierra del
Fuego.” Auk, volume 88, number 2 (1971), pages 440-442.

“Penguin” in Encyclopedia Britannica (1971), volume 17, page
552.

“A Serological and Ectoparasite Survey of Migratory Birds in
Northeast Africa: Final Report.” Report for the Army Research Office. 642
pages, illustrated. 10 March 1971.

Watson, George E., Robert E. Shope, and Makram N. Kaiser. “An Ectoparasite
and Virus Survey of Migrating Birds in the Eastern Mediterranean.” Reports of
the V Symposium of the Study of the Réle of Migrating Birds in Distribution
of Arboviruses. Nauka, Novosibirska, 1971.

Weitzman, Stanley H., and H. Nijssen. “Four New Species and One New Sub-
species of the Catfish Genus Corydoras from Ecuador, Colombia, and Brazil
(Pisces, Siluriformes, Callichthyidae).” Beaufortia, volume 18 (1970), pages
M9132.

Weitzman, Stanley H., and Jamie E. Thomerson. “A New Species of Glandulo-
caudine Characid Fish, Hysteronotus myersi, from Peru.” Proceedings of the
California Academy of Sciences, volume 38 (1970), pages 139-156.

Wetmore, Alexander. “Familié Palmschatzer (Familié Dulidae).”” In Grzimeks
Tierleben (1970), Band IX, neuntes Kapitel, page 210.

“Archaeopteryx.” In Encyclopaedia Britannica (1971), pages 284—-

285.
“Diatryma.” In Encyclopaedia Britannica (1971), page 369.
“Hesperornis.” In Encyclopaedia Britannica (1971), pages 461-462.
“Ichthyornis.” In Encyclopaedia Britannica (1971), pages 1054—
1055.

“Phororhacos.” In Encyclopaedia Britannica (1971), page 1911.
Zug, George R., and Ronald I. Crombie. “Modifications of the Taylor Enzyme
Method of Clearing and Staining for Amphibians and Reptiles.” Herpeto-
logical Review, volume 2 (1970), pages 49-50.
“Intergradation of the Two Rhineura (Reptile) Populations in
Central Florida and Comments on Its Scale Reduction.” Journal of Herpetol-
ogy, volume 4 (1970), pages 123-129.
APPENDIX 6. PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN STAFF 195

“The Distribution and Patterns of the Major Arteries of the
Iguanids and Comments on the Intergeneric Relationships of Iguanids (Rep-
tilia: Lacertilia).” Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology, number 83 (7 April
1971), 23 pages, 15 figures, 3 tables.

“The Musculoskeletal System: An Evolutionary Perspective.” In
Chordate Structure and Function, pages 200-241. New York: Macmillan Co.,
1971.

Zusi, Richard L. “Functional Anatomy in Systematics.” Taxon, volume 20,
number | (1970), pages 75-84.

Zusi, Richard L., and J. T. Marshall. “A Comparison of Asiatic and North
American Sapsuckers.” The Natural History Bulletin of the Siam Society, vol-
ume 23, number 3 (1970), pages 393-407.

Zusi, Richard L., and Joseph R. Jehl, Jr. “The Systematic Relationships of
Aechmorhynchus, Prosobonia, and Phegornis (Charadriiformes; Charadrii).”
Auk, volume 87, number 4 (1970), pages 760-780.

National Air and Space Museum

Meyer, Robert B., Jr., editor. “Langley’s Aero Engine of 1903.’’ Smithsonian
Annals of Flight, number 6 (30 March 1971), xi + 193 pages, 44 figures.

Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory

Allison, A. C. “The Numerical Solution of Coupled Differential Equations
Arising from the Schrédinger Equation.” Journal of Computational Physics,
volume 6 (1970), pages 378-391.

Allison, A. C., and A. Dalgarno. “Band Oscillator Strengths and Transition
Probabilities for the Lyman and Werner Systems of H,, HD and D,.” Atomic
Data, volume | (1970), pages 289-304.

“Isotope Effects in the Lyman and Werner Systems of Molecular
Hydrogen.” Molecular Physics, volume 19, number 4 (1970), pages 567-572.

Apparao, K. M. V. “The Electromagnetic Spectrum of the Crab Nebula.” Pages
247-249 in L. Gratton, editor, Non-Solar X- and Gamma-Ray Astronomy,
Proceedings of the International Astronomical Union Symposium No. 37.
Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1970.

Austin, P. M., and M. R. Schaffner. “Computations and Experiments Relevant
to Digital Processing of Weather Radar Echoes.” Presented at the 14th Radar
Meteorology Conference, Tucson, Arizona, 1970.

Avrett, E. H. “Solution of Non-LTE Transfer Problems.” Presented at the
Interdisciplinary Symposium of the Applications of Transport Theory, Oxford,
September 1970.

“The Solar H and K Lines.” Publications of the Astronomical So-
ciety of the Pacific, volume 82 (1970), pages 169-248.

Ball, J. A., C. Cesarsky, A. K. Dupree, L. Goldberg, and A. E. Lilley. “Detection
and Identification of Recombination Lines from an H I Region.” Astrophysical
Journal, volume 162 (1970), pages L25-29.

Ball, J. A., D. F. Dickinson, C. A. Gottlieb, and H. E. Radford. ‘The 3.8-cm
196 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1971

Spectrum of OH: Laboratory Measurement and Low-Noise Search in W3
(OH).” Astronomical Journal, volume 75, number 7 (1970), pages 762-763.

Ball, J. A., C. A. Gottlieb, A. E. Lilley, and H. E. Radford. “Detection of Methyl
Alcohol in Sagittarius.” Astrophysical Journal, volume 162 (1970), pages L203-
210.

Ball, J. A., C. A. Gottlieb, M. L. Meeks, and H. E. Radford. “Search for the
"Il, J — 5/2 Excited State of OH in W3.” Astrophysical Journal, volume
163 (1971), pages L33-34.

Ball, J. A., C. A. Gottlieb, and H. E. Radford, “Search for Extraterrestrial H.'8O
Emission.” Astrophysical Journal, volume 163 (1971), pages 429-430.

Barker, J. I., and M. D. Grossi. ‘“‘Results of the OV4-1 Dual Satellite Experi-
ment on Guided Ionospheric Propagation.” Radio Science, volume 5, number
6 (1970), pages 983-996.

Barnes, J. A., R. Chi, L. S. Cutler, D. J. Healey, D. B. Leeson, T. E. McGunigal,
J. A. Mullen, Jr., W. L. Smith, R. L. Sydnor, R. F. C. Vessot, and G. M. R.
Winkler. ‘Characterization of Frequency Stability.” Institute of Electrical
and Electronic Engineers Transactions on Instrumentation and Measurement,
volume IM—20, number 2 (1971), pages 105-120.

Becker, K. H., E. H. Fink, and A. C. Allison. , Intensity Calibrations of a Spec-
troscopic Detecting System in the 1100-1820 A Region.” Journal of the Optical
Society of America, volume 61, number 4 (1971), pages 495-498.

Bottcher, C., and M. R. Flannery. “Impact-Parameter Treatment of Hydrogen-
Hydrogen Excitation Collisions.” Journal of Physics B: Atomic and Molecular
Physics, volume 3 (1970), pages 1600-1609.

Bottcher, C., R. A. McCray, M. Jura, and A. Dalgarno. “Time-Dependent Model
of the Interstellar Medium.” Astrophysical Letters, volume 6 (1970), pages
231-241

Carleton, N. P., W. A. Traub, and R. B. Wattson. “Venus CO, Line Profiles:
Observations Compared with Predictions for a Variety of Cloud Distributions.”
Presented at the Third Annual Meeting of the Division of Planetary Sciences
of the American Astronomical Society, Tallahassee, Florida, February 1971.

Chaffee, F. “Abundances in Open Clusters: F Dwarfs in the Coma Cluster.”
Presented at the Astronomical Society of the Pacific, Hawaii, June 1971.

Chaffee, F., D. F. Carbon, and S. E. Strom. “Abundances in Open Clusters:
Model-Atmosphere Abundance Analysis of Stars in the Pleiades and Hyades
Clusters.” Astrophysical Journal, volume 166 (1971), pages 593-603.

Charlson, R. J., P. W. Hodge, P. B. Lucke, E. J. Mannery, and T. P. Snow. “At-
mospheric Extinction in Four Wavelength Regions from Sites in the Northern
and Southern Hemispheres.” Project ASTRA, Publication No. 2 (1970).

Charman, W. N., R. W. P. Drever, J. H. Fruin, J. V. Jelley, J. L. Elliot, Gc:
Fazio, D. R. Hearn, H. F. Helmken, G. H. Rieke, and T. C. Weekes. “Upper-
Air Fluorescence as a Tool in X-Ray Astronomy and Searches for X-Rays
from NP 0532 and Other Pulsars.” Pages 41-49 in L. Gratton, editor, Non-
Solar X- and Gamma-Ray Astronomy, Proceedings of the International Astro-
nomical Union Symposium No. 37. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing
Company, 1970.

Cherniak, J., and E. M. Gaposchkin. “Computer Derivation of Short-Period
Lunar Perturbations.” Pages 36-39 in B. Morando, editor, Dynamics of Satel-
lites. New York: Springer-Verlag, 1970.

Cook, A. F., and F. A. Franklin. “An Explanation of the Light Curve of
Iapetus.” Icarus, volume 13 (1970), pages 282-291.
APPENDIX 6. PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN STAFF 197

Crawford, O. H., and A. Dalgarno. “The Scattering of Thermal Electrons by
Carbon Monoxide.” Journal of Physics B: Atomic and Molecular Physics,
volume 4 (1971), pages 494-502.

Dalgarno, A. “Metastable Species in the Ionosphere.” Annales de Géophysique,
volume 26, number 2 (1970), pages 601-607.

Dalgarno, A., C. Bottcher, and G. A. Victor. “Pseudo-Potential Calculation of
Atomic Interactions.” Chemistry and Physics Letters, volume 7 (1970), pages
265-267.

Dalgarno, A., and T. C. Degges. “CO Dayglow on Mars and Venus.” Pages
337-345 in C. Sagan et al., editors, Planetary Asmospheres. Dordrecht, Hol-
land: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1971.

Dalgarno, A., G. Herzberg, and T. L. Stephens. “A New Continuous Emission
Spectrum of the Hydrogen Molecule.” Astrophysical Journal, volume 162
(1970), pages L49-53.

Dalgarno, A., and M. B. McElroy. “Mars: Is Nitrogen Present?” Science, vol-
ume 170 (1970), pages 167-168.

D’Amico, J., J. DeFelice, and E. L. Fireman. “The Cosmic-Ray and Solar-Flare
Bombardment of the Moon.” Proceedings of the Apollo 11 Lunar Science
Conference, volume 2 (1970), pages 1029-1036.

Danziger, I. J., and M. A. Jura. “The Halo B Star HD 137569.” Astrophysical
Journal, volume 161 (1970), pages 997-1002.

Davis, R. J. “Astronomical Spectroscopy.” Pages 107-108 in McGraw-Hill Year-
book of Science and Technology. New York: McGraw-Hill Publishing Com-
pany, 1970.

“Ultraviolet Photometry of Stars Obtained with the Celescope Ex-
periment in the Orbiting Astronomical Observatory.” Pages 109-119 in L.
Houziaux and H. E. Butler, editors, Ultraviolet Stellar Spectra and Related
Ground-Based Observations. New York: Springer-Verlag, 1970.

Davis, R. J., W. A. Deutschman, K. Haramundanis, Y. Nozawa, and K. O’Neill.
“Video Data Processing for the Celescope Experiment.” Astronomical Use of
Television-Type Image Sensors, NASA SP-256 (1970), pages 137-144.

Deutschman, W. A. Automatic Computer Reduction of Astronomical Television
Images. Presented at International Astronomical Union Colloquium No. II,
Edinburgh, August 1970.

Dickey, J. S., Jr. “Nickel-Iron in Lunar Anorthosites.”” Earth and Planetary
Science Letters, volume 8 (1970), pages 387-392.

Dickinson, D. “Galactic Radio Astronomy.” Smithsonian, volume 1, number
8 (1970), pages 56-63.

Dickinson, D., and C. A. Gottlieb. “Comments on the Excitation and Abundance
of Interstellar SiO, Based on a Search at 87 GHz.” Astrophysical Letters, vol-
ume 7 (1971), pages 205-207.

Drake, G. W. F., and A. Dalgarno. “A 1/Z Expansion Study of the 2s2p Ip
and 3p Autoionizing Resonances of the Helium Isoelectronic Sequence.” Pro-
ceedings of the Royal Society of London A, volume 320 (1971), page 549.

Evenson, K. M., J. S. Wells, and H. E. Radford. “Infrared Resonance of OH
with the H.O Laser: A Galactic Maser Pump?” Physical Review Letters, vol-
ume 25 (1970), number 4, pages 199-202.

Fazio, G. G. Recent Progress in Cosmic Gamma Radiation. Presented at Ameri-
can Physical Society Meeting, Washington, D.C., April 1971.
198 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1971

“X-Ray and Gamma-Ray Astronomy.” Pages 72-100 in Proceedings
of the 6th Interamerican Seminar on Cosmic Rays, volume 1 (1970).

Fazio, G. G., D. R. Hearn, and H. F. Helmken. “A Search for Periodic Gamma-
Ray Emission in the 10"- to 10%-eV Energy Region from Pulsars.” Acta Physica
Academicae Scientiarium Hungaricae (1970), volume 29, supplement 1, pages
TVA"

Fazio, G. G., D. R. Hearn, H. F. Helmken, G. H. Rieke, and T. C. Weekes. “A
Search for High-Energy y-Rays from Pulsars.” Pages 192-195 in L. Gratton,
editor, Non-Solar X- and Gamma-Ray Astronomy, Proceedings of the Inter-
national Astronomical Union Symposium No. 37. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel
Publishing Company, 1970.

Fazio, G. G., H. F. Helmken, G. H. Rieke, and T. C. Weekes. ‘““A Lower Limit
to the Magnetic Field in the Crab Nebula from Cosmic y-Ray Experiments at
10%eV.” Pages 250-256 in L. Gratton, editor, Non-Solar X- and Gamma-Ray
Astronomy, Proceedings of the International Astronomical Union Symposium
No. 37. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1970.

“Recent Results on the Search for 10% eV Gamma Rays from the
Crab Nebula.” Pages 56-58 in R. D. Davies and F. G. Smith, editors, The
Crab Nebula, Proceedings of the International Astronomical Union Symposium
No. 46. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1971.

“Upper Limits to the Emission of 10%-eV Gamma Rays from Dis-
crete Sources.” Acta Physica Academicae Scientiarium Hungaricae (1970), vol-
ume 29, supplement 1, pages 115-121.

Fazio, G. G., J. V. Jelley, and W. N. Charman. “Generation of Cerenkov Light
Flashes by Cosmic Radiation within the Eyes of the Apollo Astronauts.” Na-
ture, volume 228 (1970), pages 260-264.

Fireman, E. L., J. DeFelice, and E. Norton. “Ages of the Allende Meteorite.”
Geochimica et Cosmochimica Acta, volume 34 (1970), pages 873-881.

Fireman, E. L., and G. Spannagel. “The Radial Gradient of Cosmic Rays from
the Lost City Meteorite.” Journal of Geophysical Research, volume 76, num-
ber 17 (1971), pages 4127-4134.

Flannery, M. R. “Classical Theory of Excitation, De-Excitation and Ionization
of Atoms by Charged Particles.” Journal of Physics B: Atomic and Molecular
Physics, volume 3 (1970), pages 1610-1619.

“The Excitation of Atomic Hydrogen from the n to the n+l
Levels by Electron Impact.” Astrophysical Letters, volume 7 (1970), pages
85-88.

“Semiquantal ‘Theory of Heavy-Particle Excitation, De-Excitation,
and Ionization by Neutral Atoms, 1:Slow and Intermediate Energy Collisions.”
Annals of Physics, volume 61, number 2 (1970), pages 465-487.

“The 2*S and 2'P Excitations of Helium by Proton and Electron
Impact.” Journal of Physics B: Atomic and Molecular Physics, volume 3 (1970),
pages 306-314.

“Excitation and Ionization of Hydrogen by Hydrogen-Atom Im-
pact.” Journal of Physics B: Atomic and Molecular Physics, volume 3 (1970),
pages L97—100.

“Impact Parameter and Wave Equations for Direct Excitation and
Electron Capture.” Journal of Physics B: Atomic and Molecular Physics,
volume 3 (1970), pages 21-28.

“Inclusion of Higher State Coupling in a Multistate Impact Param-
APPENDIX 6. PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN STAFF 199

eter Treatment of Heavy Particle Collisions.” Journal of Physics B: Atomic
and Molecular Physics, volume 3 (1970), pages 798-803.

“Long-Range Effects in the 2S and 2P Excitations of Hydrogen by
Proton and Helium-Ion Impact.” Journal of Physics B: Atomic and Molecular
Physics, volume 3 (1970), pages 1083-1089.

“The n > n-+1 Transition of Atomic Hydrogen Induced by Hy-
drogen-Atom Impact.” Astrophysical Journal, volume 161 (1970), pages L41-
42.

Franklin, F. A., and G. Colombo. “A Dynamical Model for the Radial Struc-
ture of Saturn’s Rings.” Icarus, volume 12 (1970), pages 338-347.

Forti, G. A Determination of Meteor Mass Distribution from Meteor Echoes.
Presented at the International Astronomical Union Colloquium No. 13, Albany,
New York, June 1971.

Gaposchkin, E. M. Analysis of Pole Position from 1846 to 1970. Presented
at the International Astronomical Union Symposium No. 48, Morioka, Japan,
May 1971.

”’Future Uses of Laser Tracking.” Pages 1-42 in Computer Sciences
Corporation, editor, Laser and Radar Investigations, volume III. Washington,
D.C.: NASA, 1970.

“Improved Values for the Tesseral Harmonics of the Geopotential
and Station Coordinates.” Pages 109-118 in B. Morando, editor, Dynamics of
Satellites. New York: Springer-Verlag, 1970.

“Pole Position Studied with Artificial Earth Satellites.” Presented
at the International Astronomical Union Symposium No. 48, Morioka, Japan,
May 1971.

“Satellite Geodesy: Results.” EOS, volume 52, number 3 (1971),
pages 30-33.

Gaposchkin, E. M., J. R. Cherniack, R. Briggs, and B. Benima. “Third-Order
Oblateness Perturbations for an Artificial Satellite.’ Presented at the 52nd
American Geophysical Union Meeting, Washington, D.C., April 1971.

Gaposchkin, E. M., W. M. Kaula. and K. Lambeck. “1969 Smithsonian Standard
Earth and Global Tectonics.” Pages 7-60 in Computer Sciences Corporation,
editor, Gravimetric and Geometric Investigations with Geos I and Geos 2,
volume I. Washington, D.C.: NASA, 1970.

Gingerich, O. “Argolé.”” Dictionary of Scientific Biography, volume 1 (1970),
pages 244-245,

“Astronomy in Harvard Project Physics.” Bulletin of the American
Astronomical Society, volume 2 (1970), pages 275-277.

”

, editor. Frontiers in Astronomy (Readings from the “Scientific
American” Introductions). San Francisco: Freeman, 1970.

“Laboratory Exercises in Astronomy—Spectral Classification.” Sky
and Telescope, volume 40, number 2 (1970), pages 74-76.

“Renaissance Books of Science from the Collection of Albert E.
Lownes. Collaborating with D. Godine. Presented at Dartmouth College,
Hanover, New Hampshire, 1970.

“The Ultraviolet Solar Capacity.” Pages 140-142 in L. Houziaux
and H. E. Butler, editors, Ultraviolet Stellar Spectra and Related Ground-
Based Observations. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1970.

Grindlay, J. E. “Flare Stars as X-Ray Sources.” Astrophysical Journal, volume
162 (1970), pages 187-198.
200 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1971

“New Studies of Cerenkov Radiation in Extensive Air Showers.”
Il Nuovo Cimento, volume 2B, number 1 (1971), pages 119-138.

Hawkins, G. S. “Photogrammetric Survey of Stonehenge and Callanish.” Na-
tional Geographic Magazine, volume 139, number | (1971), pages 101-108.
Hellwig, H., R. F. Vessot, M. W. Levine, P. W. Zitzewitz, H. E. Peters, D. W.
Allan, and D. J. Glaze. “Measurement of Unperturbed Hydrogen Hyperfine
Transition Frequency.” [EEE Transactions on Instrumentation and Measure-

ment, volume IM—19 (1970), pages 200-209.

Hodge, P. W. “The Distribution of Atmospheric Particulates over the Pacific,
I.” Project Astra, Publication No. 3 (1970).

The Revolution in Astronomy. 189 pages. New York: Holiday
House Publishers, 1970.

“Celestial Photography with Fiber-Optics Image Tubes.” Sky and
Telescope, volume 39 (1970), pages 234-235.

—————. “Stellar Statistics,’ “Star Clusters,’ ‘Galaxies,’ and “Nebulae,”
Encyclopedia Universale. Rome: Institute of Sciences and Arts, 1970.

Hodge, P. W., and P. B. Lucke. “A Catalogue of Stellar Associations in the
Large Magellanic Cloud.” Astronomical Journal, volume 75 (1970), pages 171—
hoe

Horowitz, P., C. Papaliolios, and N. P. Carleton. “Results of a Search for Op-
tical Pulsars.” Astrophysical Journal, volume 163 (1971), pages L5—10.

Horowitz, P., C. Papaliolios, N. P. Carleton, J. Nelson, J. Middleditch, R. Hills,
D. Cudaback, J. Wampler, P. E. Boynton, E. J. Groth, R. B. Partridge, D. T.
Wilkinson, J. G. Duthie, and P. Murdin. “Optical Tim -of-Arrival Measure-
ments from the Crab Pulsar: Comparison of Results from “our Observatories.”
Astrophysical Journal, volume 166 (1971), pages L91—93.

Jacchia, L. G. “Recent Advances in Upper Atmosphere Structure.” Pages 367—
388 in T. M. Donahue, P. A. Smith, and L. Thomas, editors, Space Research
X. Amsterdam: North-Holland Publishing Company, 1970.

“Semi-Annual Density Variation in the Heterosphere: A Reap-
praisal.’’ Presented at the 14th Internati aal COSPAR Meeting, Seattle, Wash-
ington, June 1971.

“Solar-Wind Dependence of the Diurnal Temperature Variation in
the Thermosphere.” Journal of Geophysical Research, volume 75 (1970), pages
tip w ea)

Johnston, K. J., S. H. Knowles, W. T. Sullivan, III, J. M. Moran, B. F. Burke,
K. Y. Lo, D. C. Papa, G. D. Papadopoulos, P. R. Schwartz, C. A. Knight, I. I.
Shapiro, and W. J. Welch. “An Interferometer Map of the Water-Vapor
Sources in W49.” Astrophysical Journal, volume 166 (1971), pages L21-26.

Kalkofen, W. “Line Formation in Moving Atmospheres.” Pages 120-133 in H. G.
Groth and P. Wellmann, editors, Spectrum Formation in Stars with Steady-
State Extended Atmospheres, National Bureau of Standards Special Publica-
tion No, 332. Washington, D.C.: National Bureau of Standards, 1970.

Kalkofen, W., and R. W. Noyes. “The Solar Lyman Continuum and the Struc-
ture of the Solar Chromosphere.” Solar Physics, volume 15 (1970), pages 120—
138.

Kalkofen, W., and C. A. Whitney. “Line Formation in Pulsating Variable Stars.”
Presented at the Interdisciplinary Symposium on the Applications of Trans-
port Theory, Oxford, September 1970.

Lambeck, K. “Some Comments on the Present and Future Value of Geometric
APPENDIX 6. PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN STAFF 201

Satellite Geodesy.” Pages 67-100 in Computer Sciences Corporation, editor,
Laser and Radar Investigations, volume III. Washington, D.C.: NASA, 1970.

Latham, D. “Computerized Microphotometry of Stellar Spectrograms.” Pre-
sented at the International Astronomical Union Colloquium No. 11, Edin-
burgh, August 1970.

LeBas, M. J., and P. A. Mohr. “Tholeiite from the Simien Alkali Basalt Centre,
Ethiopia.” Geology Magazine, volume 107 (1970), pages 523-529.

Lecar, M., and C. Cruz-Gonzalez. “A Numerical Experiment of Relaxation
Times in Stellar Dynamics.” Presented at the 10th International Astronomical
Union Colloquium, Brighton, England, August 1970.

Lecar, M., and L. Cohen. “Numerical Experiments on Lynden-Bell’s Statistics.”
Presented at the 10th International Astronomical Union Colloquium, Brighton,
England, August 1970.

Lehr, C. G., and M. R. Pearlman. “Laser Ranging to Satellites.” Pages 54-60
in T. M. Donahue, P. A. Smith, and L. Thomas, editors, Space Research X.
Amsterdam: North-Holland Publishing Company, 1970.

Lehr, C. G., M. R. Pearlman, and J. A. Monjes. “The SAO Lunar Laser.” Pre-
sented at the 14th International COSPAR Meeting, Seattle, Washington, June
iis lle

Lehr, C. G., M. R. Pearlman, J. A. Monjes, and W. F. Hagen. “A ‘Transportable
Lunar-Ranging System.” Presented at the 1971 IEEE Optical Society of America
Conference on Laser Engineering and Applications, Washington, D.C., June
1971.

Lehr, C. G., M. R. Pearlman, and J. L. Scott. “A Photographic Technique for
Improved Laser-Ranging Accuracy.” Pages 51-56 in Computer Sciences Corpo-
ration, editor, Laser and Radar Investigations, volume III. Washington, D.C.::
NASA, 1970.

Lehr, C. G., M. R. Pearlman, M. R. Wolf, and J. A. Monjes. “A High-Radiance
Laser System for Lunar Ranging.” Presented at the Seminar on Optical Track-
ing Systems, El Paso, Texas, January 1971.

Levine, M. W., and R. F. C. Vessot. ‘Hydrogen-Maser Time and Frequency
Standard at Agassiz Observatory.” Radio Science, volume 5, number 10 (1970),
pages 1287-1292.

Levy, H., II. “Born Wave Cross-Section Calculations for Collisional Quenching
of Metastable H(2s) by Helium, Neon, Argon, and Krypton.” Physical Review
A, volume 3, number 6 (1971), pages 1987-1991.

“Born Wave Cross-Section Calculations for the Excitation of
He(1’S) to He(N’*L) by Helium, Neon, Argon, and Krypton.” Journal of Physics
B: Atomic and Molecular Physics, volume 3 (1970), pages 1501-1509.

Lundquist, C. A. “Laser Ranging to Artificial Satellites.‘ Presented at the XIV
General Assembly of the International Astronomical Union, Brighton, Eng-
land, August 1970.

“Photometry from Apollo Tracking.” Pages 25-32 in T. M. Dona-
hue, P. A. Smith, and L. Thomas, editors, Space Research X. Amsterdam:
North-Holland Publishing Company, 1970.

Lundquist, C. A., and G. E. O. Giacaglia. “Sampling Functions as an Alterna-
tive to Spherical Harmonics.” Presented at the International Astronomical
Union Symposium No. 48, Morioka, Japan, May 1971.

“A Geopotential Representation with Sampling Functions.” Pre-
sented at the Symposium of the Use of Artificial Satellites for Geodesy, Wash-
ington, D.C., April 1971.
202 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1971

Lundquist, C. A., and G. C. Weiffenbach. “Plans by SAO for the Use of Geos
C in Geodetic and Earth-Physics Investigations.” Pages 173-182 in Computer
Sciences Corporation, editor, General, volume IV. Washington, D.C.: NASA,
1970.

Marsden, B. “Reports of the Progress of Astronomy. Comets.” Quarterly Journal
of the Royal Astronomical Society, volume 11 number 3 (1970), pages 221-235.

“Report of The Central Bureau for Astronomical Telegrams.”
Transactions of the International Astronomical Union, Commission number
6, volume XIV A (1970), pages 15-17.

Mathur, N. C., M. D. Grossi, and M. R. Pearlman. “Atmospheric Effects in
Very Long Baseline Interferometry.” Radio Science, volume 5, number 10
(1970), pages 1253-1261.

Maxwell, J. C. “A Doppler Satellite System Design for Animal Tracking.” Pre-
sented at National Telemetering Conference, Washington, D.C., April 1971.

“A Paper Supporting the Use of the Doppler Technique to Track
Free-Roaming Animals from Satellites.” Presented at the Symposium on Ani-
mal Orientation and Navigation, Wallops Station, Virginia, September 1970.

McCrosky, R. E. “The Lost City Meteorite Fall.” Sky and Telescope, volume
39 (1970), pages 154-158.

McCrosky, R. E., and Z. Ceplecha. ‘Fireballs and the Physical Theory of Me-
teors.” Bulletin of the Astronomical Institute of Czechoslovakia, volume 21
(1970), pages 271-296.

McCroskey, R. E., A. Posen, G. Schwartz, and C. -Y Shao. “Lost City Meteorite—
Its Recovery and a Comparison with Other Fireballs.” Journal of Geophysical
Research, volume 76, number 17 (1971), pages 4090-4108.

McDaniel, E. W., V. Cermak, A. Dalgarno, E. E. Ferguson, and L. Friedman.
Ion Molecule Reactions. 374 pages. New York: John Wiley and Sons, 1970.
Megrue, G. “Distribution and Origin of Helium, Neon, and Argon Isotopes in
Apollo 12 Samples by In Situ Analysis was a Laser Probe Mass Spectrometer.”
Presented at Apollo 12 Lunar Science Conference, Houston, Texas, January

1971.

“Laser Microprobe Mass Spectrometry with Applications to Me-
teorite Research.” Pages 654-656 in K. Ogata and T. Hayakawa, editors, Recent
Developments in Mass Spectroscopy. Tokyo: University of Tokyo Press, 1970.

Melson, W. G., E. Jarosewich, and C. A. Lundquist. “Volcanic Eruption at
Metis Shoal, Tonga, 1967-1968: Description and Petrology.” Smithsonian Con-
tributions to the Earth Sciences, number 4 (16 October 1970), 18 pages, 13 fig-
ures, 3 tables.

Menzel, D. H. Astronomy. New York: Random House, 1970.

“Laser Action in Non-LTE Atmospheres.” Pages 134-137 in H. G.
Groth and P. Wellman, editors, Spectrum Formation in Stars with Steady-
State Extended Atmospheres, National Bureau of Standards Special Publication
No. 332. Washington, D.C.: National Bureau of Standards, 1970.

“The Challenge of Space Research.” Advances in the Astronautical
Sciences, volume 27 (1970).

“Total Eclipse of the Moon.” Highlights for Children, volume 26,
number 2 (1971), page 28.

Menzel, D. H., and J. M. Pasachoff. ‘Eclipse Instrumentation for the Solar
Corona.” Journal of Applied Optics, volume 9, number 12 (1970), pages 2626—
2630.
APPENDIX 6. PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN STAFF 203

“The Outer Corona at the Eclipse of March 1970.” Nature, volume
226 (1970), page 5251.

————. “Site Survey for the 1973 Total Solar Eclipse.” Big Bear Solar Ob-
servatory Preprint (1971). California Institute of Technology.

“Solar Eclipse: Nature’s Super Spectacular.” National Geographic
Magazine, volume 138, number 2 (1970), pages 222-233.

Menzel, D. H., W. W. Salisbury, and D. L. Fernald. ‘A System for Recording
the Polarization of Extended Astronomical Objects.” Applied Optics, volume 9
(1970), pages 2648-2649.

Menzel, D. H., F. L. Whipple, and G. de Vaucouleurs. Survey of the Universe.
841 pages. Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey: Prentice-Hall, Inc., 1970.

Mertz, L. “Design for a Giant Telescope.” Page 507 in J. Home Dickson, editor,
Optical Instruments and Techniques. Newcastle-Upon-Tyne, England: Oriel
Press, Ltd., 1970.

“Eclectic Considerations in Astronomical Fourier Spectroscopy.” Pre-
sented at Optical Society of America Meeting, Hollywood, Florida, September
1970.

“Fourier Spectroscopy, Past, Present, and Future.” Applied Optics,
volume 10 (1971), pages 386-389.

“Numerical Image Synthesis for the Rotation Modulation Colli-
mator.”’ Presented at the American Astronomical Society Meeting, Tampa,
Florida, December 1970.

“Numerical Image Synthesis for a Ring Pupil.” Optica Acta, vol-
ume 18, number | (1971), pages 51-57.

“Observations of Infrared Stellar Absorption Lines.” Presented at
17th International Astrophysical Symposium at Liége on Infrared Spectroscopy,
Liége, Belgium, June 1971.

Michelini, R. D. “Investigations of Very Long Baseline Interferometry at the
Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory.” Pages 15-26 in L. E. Fron and C. B.
Solloway, editors, Proceedings of the Conference on Scientific Applications of
Radio and Radar Tracking in the Space Program. Jet Propulsion Laboratory
Technical Report number 32-1475. Pasadena, California: Jet Propulsion Lab-
oratory, 1970.

“A One-Bit VLBI Recording and Playback System Using Video-
tape Recorders.” Radio Science, volume 10 (1970), pages 1263-1270.

Michelini, R. D., and M. D. Grossi. “VLBI Observations of Radio Emissions
from Geostationary Satellites.” Presented at 14th International COSPAR
Meeting, Seattle, Washington, June 1971.

Miller, W. C., and D. Latham. “Report on the Albany, New York, Meeting of
the AAS Working Groups on Photographic Materials in Astronomy.” American
Astronomical Society Photo-Bulletin, volume 3, number 2 (1970), pages 3-10.

Mohr, P. A. “The Afar Triple Junction and Sea-Floor Spreading.” Journal of
Geophysical Research, volume 75, number 35 (1970), pages 7340-7352.

“Catalog of Chemical Analyses of Rocks from the Intersection of
the African, Gulf of Aden, and Red Sea Rift Systems.” Smithsonian Contribu-
tions to the Earth Sciences, number 2 (16 December 1970), 271 pages.

“Volcanic Composition in Relation to Tectonics in the Ethiopian
Rift System: A Preliminary Investigation.” Bulletin Volcanologique, volume
34, number 1 (1970), pages 1-17.

“Plate Tectonics of the Red Sea and East. Africa.” Nature, volume
228, number 5271 (1970), pages 547-548.

441-283 O- 71-14
204 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1971

“Ethiopian Rift and Plateaus: Some Volcanic Petrochemical Dif-
ferences.” Journal of Geophysical Research, volume 76, number 8 (1971), pages
1967-1984.

“The Ethiopian Triple-Rift Junction in Terms of Plate Tectonics.”
Bulletin of the Geophysical Observatory, Haile Sellassie I University, number
13 (1971), pages 1-17.

————. “Research Programs on Crustal Deformations in the Ethiopian
Rift. 2. Smithsonian Geodimeter Surveys.” Bulletin of the Geophysical Ob-
servatory, Haile Sellassie I University, number 13 (1971), page 121.

“Tectonics of the Dobi Graben Region, Central Afar, Ethiopia.”
Bulletin of the Geophysical Observatory, Haile Sellassie I University, number
13 (1971), pages 73-89.

The Geology of Ethiopia (2nd Printing with new Foreword). 268
pages. Addis Ababa: Haile Selassie I University Press, 1971.

Nilsson, C. S., and F. W. Wright. “Detection of Micrometeoroid Flux on Satel-
lites.” Journal of Geophysical Research, volume 76 (1971), pages 3424-3425.
Nozawa, Y. “Accuracy of an Orbiting Television Photometer.” Presented at the

Electro-Optical System Design Conference, New York, September 1970.

“Deterioration Characteristics of a SEC Vidicon.” Presented at the
Seoul International Conference on Electrical and Electronics Engineering,
Seoul, Korea, September 1970.

“Integrated Data-Processor-Controller for an Astronomical Tele-
vision System in a Space-Borne Observatory.” Presented at the 3lst Interna-
tional Astronautical Congress, Constance, Federal Republic of Germany, Oc-
tober 1970.

“Problems Encountered During Development of an Astronomical
Television System for an Earth-Orbiting Observatory.” Journal of the British
Interplanetary Society, volume 23 (1970), pages 759-769.

Nozawa, Y., and R. J. Davis. “Some Factors Affecting the Accuracy of a Space-
Borne Astronomical Television Photometer.” Astronomical Use of Television-
Type Image Sensors, NASA SP-256 (1971).

Oke, J. B., and R. Schild. “Recent Absolute Calibration Work at Palomar
Mountain.” Pages 13-17 in L. Houziaux and H. E. Butler, Ultraviolet Stellar
Spectra and Related Ground-Based Observations, Proceedings of the Inter-
national Astronomical Union Symposium No. 36. Dordrecht, Holland: D.
Reidel Publishing Company, 1970.

Papaliolios, C., N. P. Carleton, and P. Horowitz. ‘Absolute Time-of-Arrival
Measurements of Optical Pulses from the Crab Pulsar.’ Nature, volume 228,
number 5270 (1970), pages 445-450.

“Period of the Crab Pulsar.” Central Bureau for Astronomical
Telegrams Circular No, 2269 (1970).

“Optical Timing Measurements of the Crab Pulsar.” in R. D.
Davies and F. G. Smith, editors, The Crab Nebula, Proceedings of the Inter-
national Astronomical Union No. 46. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing
Company, 1971.

Papaliolios, C., P. Horowitz, and N. P. Carleton. “Results of a Search for Op-
tical Pulsars.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters), volume 163 (1971), pages L5-10.

Payne-Gaposchkin, C. H. “The Variable Stars of the Large Magellanic Cloud.”
Smithsonian Contributions to Astrophysics, number 13 (2 June 1971), 41 pages,
13 tables.
APPENDIX 6. PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN STAFF 205

Payne-Gaposchkin, C. H., and K. Haramundanis. Introduction to Astronomy.
610 pages. New York: Prentice-Hall, Inc., 1970.

“The Moon.” Collier's Encyclopedia, New York: Grolier Press,
1970.

Pearlman, M. R., and R. E. McCrosky. “Synoptic Observations of the Aerosol
Layer by LIDAR.” Presented at the 14th International COSPAR Meeting,
Seattle, Washington, June 1971.

“A Two-Laser Collocation Experiment.” Pages 99-114 in Computer
Sciences Corporation, editor, Tracking System Intercomparisons with Geos-2,
volume II. Washington, D.C., NASA, 1970.

Reid, J. B. “Petrology of Basic Igneous Rock Fragments in Apollo 12 Soil
Samples.” Presented at the 33rd Annual Meeting of the Meteoritical Society,
Skyline, Virginia, October 1970.

“Apollo 12 Spinels as Petrogenetic Indicators.” Earth and Planetary
Science Letters, volume 10 (1971), pages 351-356.

“The Petrology of Basaltic Particles in Apollo 12 Soils.” Presented
at the American Geophysical Union 52nd Annual Meeting, Washington, D.C.,
April 1971.

Reid, J. B., and F. A. Frey. “Rare-Earth Distributions in Lherzolite and Garnet
Pyroxenite Xenoliths and the Constitution of the Upper Mantle.” Journal
of Geophysical Research, volume 76 (1971), pages 1184-1196.

Reid, R. H. G., and A. Dalgarno. “Sodium ?P Fine-Structure Transitions in
Collisions with Helium.” Chemistry and Physics Letters, volume 6 (1970),
pages 85-86.

Reid, R. H. G., and G. L. Withbroe. “The Density and Vibrational Distribution
of Molecular Oxygen in the Lower Thermosphere.” Planetary and Space
Science, volume 18 (1970), pages 1255-1265.

Rybicki, G. “A Note on the Computation of Diffuse Reflection Functions for
Spherical Sheils.”” Journal of Computational Physics, volume 6 (1970), pages
131-135.

“Relaxation Times in Strictly Disk Systems.” Presented at the 10th
International Astronomical Union Colloquium, Brighton, England, August
1970.

“Theoretical Methods of Treating Line Formation Problems in
Steady-State Extended Atmospheres.” Pages 87-118 In H. G. Groth and P.
Wellmann, Spectrum Formation in Stars with Steady-State Extended Atmo-
spheres, National Bureau of Standards Special Publication No. 332. Washing-
ton, D.C., National Bureau of Standards, 1970.

Salisbury, W. W. “Generation of Light from Free Electrons.’ Journal of the
Optical Society of America, volume 60, number 10 (1970), pages 1279-1284.

“The Properties of the Moon as a Radio Lens.” Pages 217-228 in
W. I. Linlor, editor, Electromagnetic Exploration of the Moon. Baltimore,
Maryland: Mono Book Corporation, 1970.

Salisbury, W. W., and D. W. Fernald. “Experimental Chondrule Formation.”
Presented at 33rd Annual Meeting of the Meteoritical Society, Skyline, Virginia,
October 1970. 5

Sando, K. M., and A. Dalgarno. “The Absorption of Radiation Near 600 A
by Helium.” Molecular Physics, volume 20, number | (1971), pages 103-112.

Schild, R. E. “Red Supergiants in Open Clusters.” Astrophysical Journal, vol-
ume 161 (1970), pages 855-866.

“Infrared Emission from Stars in the h and x Persei Association.”
206 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1971

Presented at the 17th International Astrophysical Symposium at Liége on
Infrared Spectroscopy, Liége, Belgium, June 1971.

Schild, R. E., G. Neugebauer, and J. A. Westphal. “Interstellar Absorption and
Color Excesses in Sco OB-1.” Astronomical Journal, volume 76 number 3
(1971), pages 237-241.

Schild, R. E.. D. M. Peterson, and J. B. Oke. “Effective Temperatures of B-
and A-Type Stars.” Astrophysical Journal, volume 166 (1971), pages 95-108.
Sekanina, Z. “Statistical Model of Meteor Streams, I: Analysis of the Model.”

Icarus, volume 13 (1970), pages 459-474.

“Statistical Model of Meteor Streams, II: Major Showers.” Icarus,
volume 13 (1970), pages 475-493.

“Internal Motions in the Head of Comet Ikeya-Seki 1965 VIII from
High Resolution Spectra.” Presented at 14th International Astronomical Union
General Assembly, Commission 15, Brighton, England, August 1970.

“Secular Variations in the Nongravitational Effects on Comets.” Pre-
sented at 14th International Astronomical Union General Assembly, Commis-
sion 20, Brighton, England, August 1970.

““A New Model for Meteor Streams.” Presented at 14th International
Astronomical Union General Assembly, Commission 22, Brighton, England,
August 1970.

“A Model for the Nucleus of Encke’s Comet.” Presented at Interna-
tional Astronomical Union Symposium No. 45, Leningrad, USSR, August 1970.

“Rotation Effects in the Nongravitational Parameters of Comets.”
Presented at International Astronomical Union Symposium No. 45, Leningrad,
USSR, August 1970.

“A Core-Mantle for Cometary Nuclei and Asteroids of Possible
Cometary Origin.” Presented at International Astronomical Union Colloquium
No. 12, Tucson, Arizona, March 1971.

“New Evidence for Interplanetary Boulders?” Presented at Interna-
tional Astronomical Union Colloquium No. 13, Albany, New York, June 1971.

Sheridan, W. F., O. Oldenberg, and N. P. Carleton. “Excitation of Nitrogen by
Fast Protons and Electrons.” Journal of Geophysical Research, volume 76
(1971), pages 2429-2436.

Strom, S. E., and K. M. Strom. “A Study of the Blue Stragglers in the Open
Cluster NGC 7789.” Astrophysical Journal, volume 162 (1970), pages 523-533.

Strom, S. E., K. M. Strom, R. T. Rood, and I. Iben. “On the Evolutionary Status
of Stars above the Horizontal Branch in Globular Clusters.” Astronomy and
Astrophysics, volume 8 (1970), pages 243-250.

Traub, W. A., and N. P. Carleton. “Measurements of Differential Doppler
Effect of a CO, Absorption Line Between Various Points on Venus.”
Presented at the Third Annual Meeting of the Division of Planetary Sciences
of the American Astronomical Society, Tallahassee, Florida, February 1971.

Veis, G., and M. Wolf. “A Laser Satellite Ranging System.” Pages 61-66 in
T. M. Donahue, P. A. Smith, and L. Thomas, editors, Space Research X.
Amsterdam: North-Holland Publishing Company, 1970.

Vessot, R. F. C., and M. W. Levine. “Measurement of the Gravitational Red
Shift Using a Clock in an Orbiting Satellite.” Presented at Conference on Ex-
perimental Tests of Gravitational Theories, California Institute of Technology,
Pasadena, California, November 1970.

“A Method for Eliminating the Wall Shift in the Atomic Hydrogen
Maser.” Metrologia, volume 6 (1970), pages 116-117.
APPENDIX 6. PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN STAFF 207

“Studies of Hydrogen Maser Wall Shift for High Molecular Weight
Polytetrafluoroethylene.” Pages 270-274 in Proceedings of the 24th Annual
Symposium on Frequency Control. Ft. Monmouth, New Jersey: U.S. Army
Command, 1970.

Vessot, R. F. C., M. W. Levine, P. W. Zitzewitz, P. Debely, and N. Ramsey.
Recent Developments Affecting the Hydrogen Maser as a Frequency Standard.
Presented at the International Conference on Precision Measurement and
Fundamental Constants, National Bureau of Standards, Gaithersburg, Mary-
land, August 1970.

Vessot, R. F. C., and J. Vanier. “Hydrogen Maser Wall Shift.” Metrologia, vol-
ume 6 (1970), pages 52-53.

Victor, G. A., and A. Dalgarno. “Orientation-Dependent van der Waals Co-
efficients for Various Species in Molecular Hydrogen.” Journal of Chemical
Physics, volume 53, number 4 (1970), pages 1316-1317.

Wattson, R. B., and J. Regas. “An Approximate, Rapid Computational Tech-
nique for Synthesizing Planetary Absorption Spectra.” Presented at the Third
Annual Meeting of the Division of Planetary Sciences of the American Astro-
nomical Society, Tallahassee, Florida, February 1971.

Weiffenbach, G. C. “A Satellite for 2-cm Accuracy Laser Ranging.” Presented
at the meeting of the American Geophysical Union, San Francisco, December
1970.

“Current Status of the SAO Program in Dynamic Geodesy.” Pre-
sented at the Department of Defense Gravity and Satellite Geodesy Symposium,
Washington, D.C., April 1971.

“Characteristics and Sources of Errors in Laser Range Measurements
to Satellites.” Presented at the Symposium on the Use of Artificial Satellites
for Geodesy, Washington, D.C., April 1971.

“Determination of UT-1 and Polar Motion by Means of VLBI and
Laser Ranging to Satellites.” Presented at the International Astronomical Union
Symposium No. 48, Morioka, Japan, May 1971.

Weiffenbach, G. C., E. M. Gaposchkin, and C. A. Lundquist. “SAO Objectives
and Plans in Satellite Geodesy and Geophysics.”’ Presented at the Department of
Defense Gravity and Satellite Geodesy Symposium, Washington, D.C., April
197A.

Whipple, F. L. “The Origin of Comets.’ Presented at the International Astro-
nomical Union Symposium No. 45, Leningrad, USSR, August 1970.

“Accumulation of Chondrules on Asteroids.” Presented at the Inter-
national Astronomical Union Colloquium No. 12, Tucson, Arizona, March
1971.

“On the Amount of Dust in the Asteroid Belt.’’ Presented at the
International Astronomical Union Colloquium No. 12, Tucson, Arizona,
March 1971.

“Radial Pressure in the Solar Nebula as Affecting the Motions of
Planetesimals.” Presented at the International Astronomical Union Sympo-
sium No. 13, Albany, New York, June 1971.

Whipple, F. L., and S. E. Hamid. “A Search for Comet Encke in Ancient Chi-
nese Records—A Progress Report.’ Presented at the International Astro-
nomical Symposium No. 45, Leningrad, USSR, August 1970.

Wolfe, C. W., L. W. McCombs, H. Skornick, L. J. Battan, R. H. Fleming, and
G. S. Hawkins. Earth and Space Science. Second edition. Boston, Massachusetts:
D. C. Heath, 1971.
208 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1971

Wood, J. A. “The Lunar Soil.’ Scientific American, volume 233 (1970), pages
1 ae
“Petrology of the Lunar Soil and Geophysical Implications.” Jour-
nal of Geophysical Research, volume 75, number 32 (1970), pages 6497-6513.
Wood, J. A., J. S. Dickey, Jr., U. B. Marvin, and B. N. Powell. “Lunar Anortho-
sites and a Geophysical Model of the Moon.” Proceedings of the Apollo 11
Lunar Science Conference, volume 1 (1970), pages 965-988.

SPECIAL REPORTS

Through its Special Report series, the Observatory distributes catalogs of satel-
lite observations, orbital data, and scientific papers before journal publication.

319. P. W. Hodge. ‘“‘Color-Magnitude Diagrams for Five Stellar Associations
in the Large Magellanic Cloud.” 7 July 1970.

320. P. W. Hodge, G. A. Welch, R. Wills, and F. W. Wright. “Estimates of
Magnitudes of the Brightest Stars in the Clusters of the Large Magellanic
Cloud.” 14 August 1970.

321. D. W. Latham. “Abundances of the Elements in Sirius and Merak.” 19
August 1970.

322. M. R. Flannery. “Semi-Quantal Theory of Heavy-Particle Excitation,
Deexcitation, and Ionization by Neutral Atoms, I: Slow and Intermediate
Energy Collisions.” 26 August 1970.

323. H. E. Mitler. “The Solar Light-Element Abundances and Primeval He-
lium.” 28 August 1970.

324. A. F. Cook. ‘Discrete Levels of Beginning Height of Meteors in Streams.”
8 September 1970.

325. K. Haramundanis. “Comparison of the SAO Star Catalog with Cape
Catalogues from —64° to —90°.”’ 15 October 1970.

326. L. G. Jacchia and J. W. Slowey. “A Catalog of Atmospheric Densities
from the Drag on Five Artificial Satellites.” 16 October 1970.

327. M. R. Pearlman, D. Hogan, W. Kirchoff, K. Goodwin, D. Kurtenbach,
S. Rocketto, and B. Van’t Sant. “A Meteorological Report for the Mt.
Hopkins Observatory: 1968-1969.” 26 October 1970.

328. J. R. Cherniak. ‘Techniques for Manipulation of Long Poisson Series.”
29 October 1970.

329. G. C. Weiffenbach and T. E. Hoffman. “A Passive Stable Satellite for
Earth-Physics Applications (Cannonball, a Satellite for Accurate Laser
Ranging).” 30 November 1970.

330. H.E. Mitler. ‘Cosmic-Ray Production of Deuterium, He’, Lithium, Beryl-
lium, and Boron in the Galaxy.” 1 December 1970.

331. S. Tsuruta and C. A. Whitney. “Radiation Gas Dynamics in Normal
Shock Waves.” 3 May 1971.

332. L. G. Jacchia. “Revised Static Models of the Thermosphere and Exo-
sphere with Empirical Temperature Profiles.” 5 May 1971.

333. J. A. Wood, U. B. Marvin, J. B. Reid, Jr., G. J. Taylor, J. F. Bower, B. N.
Powell, and J. S. Dickey, Jr. “Mineralogy and Petrology of the Apollo
12 Lunar Sample.” 20 May 1971.

334. J. E. Grindlay. “Extensive Air Shower Studies of Cosmic Gamma Rays
and Cosmic Ray Composition.” 28 May 197].
APPENDIX 6. PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN STAFF 209

335. J. A. Hoffman. ‘‘A Gas-Cerenkov Telescope Experiment to Observe Cosmic
Gamma Rays.” 4 June 1971.

Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute

Glynn, Peter W. “On the Ecology of the Caribbean Chitons Acanthopleura
granulata Gmelin and Chiton tuberculatus Linee: Density, Mortality, Feeding,
Reproduction, and Growth.” Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology, number
66 (16 October 1970), 21 pages, 10 figures, 9 tables.

Robinson, Michael H., and Jose Olazarri. “Units of Behavior and Complex
Sequences in the Predatory Behavior of Argiope argentata (Fabricius): (Ara-
neae: Araneidae).” Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology, number 65 (21 May
1971), 36 pages, 15 figures, 3 tables.

Radiation Biology Laboratory

Brown, J. A. M., and W. H. Klein. “Photomorphogenesis in Arabidopsis
Thaliana (L.) Heynh: Threshold Intensities and Blue Far-red Synergism in
Floral Induction.” Plant Physiology, volume 47 (1971), pages 393-399.

Drumm, Helga E., and Maurice M. Margulies. “Jn Vitro Protein Synthesis by
Plastids of Phaseolus vulgaris, 1V. Amino Acid Incorporation by Plastids.”
Plant Physiology, volume 45 (1970), pages 435-442.

Gantt, E., M. R. Edwards, and L. Provasoli. “Chloroplast Structure of the
Cryptophyceae: Evidence for Phycobiliproteins within Intrathylakoidal Spaces.”
Journal of Cell Biology, volume 48 (1971), pages 280-290.

Goldberg, Bernard. “Loss of Solar Radiation at Washington, D.C. over the
Past 50 Years.” Presented at 1971 International Solar Energy Conference,
Greenbelt, Maryland, 9-14 May 1971.

Klein, W. H. “Annual Variation of Ultraviolet Radiation at Washington, D.C.”
Presented at SST Environmental Research Panel Meeting, Boulder, Colorado
March 1971.

Lange, H., W. Shropshire, Jr., and H. Mohr. “An Analysis of Phytochrome-
Mediated Anthocyanin Synthesis.” Plant Physiology, volume 47 (1971), pages
649-655.

Ma, Te-Hsiu, A. J. Snope, and Tsai Ying Chang. “Far-red Light Effect on
Ultraviolet Light Induced Chromatid Aberrations in Pollen Tubes of Trade-
scantia.” Radiation Botany, volume 11 (1971), pages 39-43.

Margulies, Maurice M. “Changes in Absorbance Spectrum of the Diatom Phaeo-
dactylum Tricornutum upon Modification of Protein Structure.” Journal of
Phycology (1970), pages 160-164.

“Electron Transport Properties of Chloroplasts from Aged Bean
Leaves.” Presented at Second International Congress of Photosynthesis Research
in Stressa, Italy, 24-29 June 1971.

“In Vitro Protein Synthesis by Plastids of Phaseolus vulgaris, V.
Incorporation of “C-leucine into a Protein Fraction Containing Ribulose
1,5-Diphosphate Carboxylase.” Plant Physiology, volume 46 (1970), pages 136—
141.
210 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1971

Shropshire, W., Jr. “Intracellular Communication for Phototropism.” Presented
at Symposium on Membranes, Structure and Function of Photobiological Sys-
tems—Phytochrome and Phototropism held at Raleigh, N.C. 7 April 1971.

“Photo-Induced Parental Control of Seed Germination.” Presented
at 1971 Solar Energy Conference in Greenbelt, Maryland 9-14 May 1971.

Shropshire, W., Jr., and H. Mohr. “Gradient Formation of Anthocyanin in
Seedlings of Fagopyrum and Sinapis Unilaterally Exposed to Red and Far-red
Light.” Photochemistry and Photobiology, volume 12 (1970), pages 145-149.

Stuckenrath, Robert, and James E. Mielke. ‘Smithsonian Institution Radio-
carbon Measurements, VI.” Radiocarbon, volume 12 (1970), pages 193-204.

National Zoological Park

Boyer, S. H., A. N. Noyes, G. R. Vrablik, L. J. Donalson, C. W. Gray, and T. F.
Thurmon. “Silent Hemoglobin Alpha Genes in Apes: Potential Source of
Thalassemia.” Science, volume 171, pages 182-185.

Brown, T. McP., H. W. Clark, J. S. Bailey, and C. W. Gray. “A Mechanistic
Approach to Treatment of Rheumatoid Type Arthritis Naturally Occurring
in a Gorilla.” Transactions of the American Clinical and Climatological Asso-
ciation, volume 82 (1970).

Eisenberg, J. F. “Breeding Project Helps Restore Ceylon Elephants.” Smith-
sonian, volume 1, number | (1970), pages 20-27.

.“A Splendid Predator Does Its Own Thing Untroubled By Man.”
Smithsonian, volume 1, number 6 (1970), pages 48-55.

“The Relationship Between Ecology and Social Structure in Pri-
mates.” Paper presented at the Animal Behavior Society Meeting, Logan,
Utah, 14-16 June 1971.

“The Vocalizations of South American Primates.” Paper presented
to the Fifty-first Annual Meeting of the American Society of Mammalogists,
Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada, 20-24 June 1971.

“What is Ethology?” Invitational Seminar, Department of Pathol-
ogy, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Maryland, 16 October 1970.

————. “Wildlife Conservation in Ceylon.” Invitational Seminar, Ceylon
Council, Asia Society, New York City, 19 November 1970.

Eisenberg, J. F., and Wilton S. Dillon, editors. Man and Beast: Comparative
Social Behavior. 401 pages, 29 figures, 3 tables. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian
Institution Press, 1971.

Eisenberg, J. F., M. R. Jainudeen, and J. B. Jayasinghe. “Semen of the Ceylon
Elephant (Elephas maximus).” Journal of Reproduction and Fertility, volume
24, number 2 (1971), pages 213-219.

Eisenberg, J. F., and D. G. Kleiman. “Comparisons of Canid and Felid Social
Systems from an Evolutionary Point of View.” Paper presented at the Inter-
national Symposium on Ecology, Behavior and Conservation of the World’s
Cats, Lion Country Safari, Laguna Hills, California, 15 March 1971.

Eisenberg, J. F., and G. M. McKay. “A Revised Checklist of the Mammals of
Ceylon with Keys to the Species.” Ceylon Journal of Science, Biological Science,
volume 8, number 2 (1970), pages 23-53.

Eisenberg, J. F.. G. M. McKay, and M. R. Jainudeen. “Reproductive Behavior
of the Asiatic Elephant (Elephas maximus L.).” Behavior, volume 38 (1971),
pages 193-225.
APPENDIX 6. PUBLICATIONS OF ‘THE SMITHSONIAN STAFF 211

Eisenberg, J. F., and N. A. Muckenhirn. ‘Spacing Mechanisms and Predation
by the Ceylon Leopard.” Paper presented at the International Symposium on
Ecology, Behavior and Conservation of the World’s Cats, Lion Country Safari,
Laguna Hills, California, 15 March 1971.

Eisenberg, J. F., C. Santiapillai, and M. Lockhart. “The Censusing of Animal
Populations by Indirect Methods.” Ceylon Journal of Science, Biological
Science, volume 8, number 2 (1970), pages 53-62.

Gray, C. W. “Use of a Walking Cast in a Third Metatarsal Fracture in the
Zebra.” International Zoo Yearbook, volume 10, page 173.

Gray, C. W., and A. P. W. Nettashinghe. “A Preliminary Study on the Im-
mobilization of the Asiatic Elephant (Elephas maximus) Utilizing Etorphine
(M-99).”" Zoologica (New York Zoological Society), number 55, part 3, pages
J1=56:

Horsley, Jaren G. “Keeper Training Program.” Continuing Lecture Series to
the Reptile Division, National Zoological Park, Smithsonian Institution, 1970-
1971. ;

“Animal Behavior.” USDA Graduate School Course, 16 November
1970—12 January 1971.

Sauer, R. M., B. C. Zook, and F. M. Garner. “Demyelinating Encephalomyelo-
pathy Associated with Lead Poisoning in Non-human Primates.” Science, vol-
ume 169 (11 September 1970), pages 1091-1093.

Slaughter, Leo. “Gestation Period of the Dorcas Gazelle.” Journal of Mammol-
ogy, volume 52, number 2 (1971), pages 480-481.

Weeks, Sam E. “The Relevant Role of the Zoo.” Lecture. University of Mary-
land, Phi Sigma Society, 29 October 1970.

“Birds of the World.” Walking Lecture. National Zoological Park,
Tour of the Bird Division, 21 November 1970.

“Birds.” Lecture. National Zoological Park, Keeper Training Pro-
gram, 30 November 1970.

—————.. “Birds and the Role of the Zoo.” National Zoological Park, Friends
of the National Zoo Docent Course, 7 January 1971.

“Current Ecological Topics.” Seminar. Northern Virginia Com-
munity College, 26 January 1971.

—. “Owl Presentation.” Lecture. Audubon Naturalist Society, 5 Feb-

ruary 1971.

“World Population.” Lecture. University of Maryland, 10 February
1971.

“World Ecology.” Seminar. Howard University, Washington, D.C.,
30 March 1971.

“Animal Behavior.” Seminar. Northern Virginia Community Col-
lege, 2 March 1971.

“Ethology.” Lecture. Northern Virginia Community College, 9
March 197].

“Animal Communication.” Two Seminars. Woodrow Wilson High
School, 16 March 1971.

“Techniques of Bird Care.” Two Seminars. Audubon Naturalist
Society, 28 March 1971 and 18 April 1971.

“Birds.” Course. Smithsonian Associates, Washington, D.C., 3
April—19 June 1971.

“Earth Day.” Seminar. Mary Washington College, 20 April 1971.
212 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1971

“Birds of the World.” Walking Lectures. Tour of National Zoo
Bird Division for students of Northern Virginia Community College, 28 April
1971, and Maryland University, 6 May 1971.

“Introduction to Ecology.” Lecture. Audubon Naturalist Society,
5 May 1971.

“Ecology.” Lecture. Apple Grove School, 13 May 1971.

“Tinamous, Behavior and Man’s Future.” Lecture. Radio Smith-
sonian, 30 May 1971.

“Avicultural Techniques.” Seminar. Baltimore Bird Fanciers’ Club,
16 May 1971.

“Birds.” Two Courses. National Zoological Park, Friends of the
National Zoo Docent Training Course, 20-29 May 1971.

Bird Division Keeper Training Course, National Zoological Park,
Washington, D.C., 25 May—27 July 1971.

“Is There Intelligent Life on Earth?” Seminar. Carnegie Institution,
Washington, D.C., 30 June 1971.

Wemmer, C. “Birth, Development and Behavior of a Fanaloka (Fossa fossa)
at the National Zoological Park, Washington, D.C.,” International Zoo Year-
book, volume 11 (1971), pages 113-115.

Wurster, D. H., K. Benirschke, and C. W. Gray. “Determination of Sex in the
Spotted Hyena.” International Zoo Yearbook, volume 10, page 143.

Zook, B. C. “An Animal Model for Human Disease. Lead Poisoning in Non-
human Primates.” Comparative Pathology Bulletin, volume 111, number 1
(1971), pages 3-4.

“Thallium Poisoning in Dogs and Cats.” In Current Veterinary
Therapy, IV, pages 97-99. Philadelphia: W. B. Saunders Co., 1971.

Zook, B. C., and J. L. Carpenter. ‘Lead Poisoning in Dogs.” In Current Vetert-
nary Therapy IV, pages 100-104. Philadelphia: W. B. Saunders Co., 1971.
Zook, B. C., R. M. Sauer, and F. M. Garner. “Lead Poisoning in Australian
Fruit Bats (Pteropus poliocephalus).” American Veterinary Medical Associa-

tion Journal, volume 157, number 5, pages 691-694.

Office of Environmental Sciences

Buechner, Helmut K. ‘Principles of Game Cropping in Eastern Africa.” Lec-
ture series. Institute of Creative Engineering Methodology, Chemical Engi-
neering Department, Catholic University, Washington, D.C., 31 July 1970.

“Satellite and Ground Radiotracking of Elk.” With Frank C.
Craighead, Jr., J. J. Craighead, and Charles E. Cote. Symposium on Animal
Orientation and Navigation sponsored jointly by NASA, Smithsonian Insti-
tution, AIBS, at Wallops Island, Virginia, 9-13 September 1970.

“Environmental Development.” Panelist. Washington Chapter, The
Society for International Development, 14 October 1970.

“Satellite Tracking of Free-Roaming Animals.” Lecture to Seminar
on Investigations in Terrestrial Biology using Aerospace Vehicles, NASA Ames
Research Center, 21] January 1971.

“Territoriality and Ceremonial Mating Behavior in the Uganda
Kob.” Lecture. University of California, 4 June 1971.

————. “Radiotelemetry for Research on Large Land Mammals.” Lecture.
First International Telemetering Conference, 29 September 1971.
APPENDIX 6. PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN STAFF 213

Jenkins, Dale W. “Global Biological Monitoring.” Lecture. MIT Summer Study
of Critical Environmental Problems. Williams College, Massachusetts, 3 July
1970.

“Laboratory Animal Ecology in Research Programs.” Lecture.
American Association for Laboratory Animal Science, 29 September 1970.

“Trends in Ecology.” Lecture. George Washington University Con-
ference for IBM, Airlee House, 2 November 1970.

“Global Biological and Environmental Monitoring.’’ Chairman’s
Opening Session Address at Symposium on Monitoring of the Environment,
Ist National Biological Congress, Detroit, Michigan, 2 November 1970.

“Data Requirements in Ecology, Remote Sensing, and Global En-
vironmental Monitoring.” Lecture. IBM Research Staff, Yorktowne, New York,
2 December 1970.

“Remote Sensing in Chesapeake Bay.” Lecture. School of Public
Health and Hygiene, Johns Hopkins University, 20 January 1971.

“The Smithsonian Institution-Peace Corps Environmental Pro-
gram.” Radio Smithsonian, April 1971.

“Ecology.” Lecture series. Smithsonian Associates, May 1971.

Opportunities in Oceanography. 32 pages, 44 illustrations. Publication 4537.
Revised edition. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1971.

Proceedings of the Symposium on Potential Application of Remote Sensing to
Economic Development in Developing Countries. 117 pages. June 1971.

Wallen, I. E. “Underwater Houses and Production Plants.” Lecture. Interocean
Congress Dusseldorf, 11 November 1970.

“Frontiers in Innerspace.” Lecture. University of Nebraska, 10
March 1971.

“New Developments in Oceanography.

”

Lecture. Rutgers Univer-
sity, 27 January 1971.

“On Oceanographic Research.” Lecture. Stanford Club of Wash-
ington, D.C., 17 September 1970.

“Environmental Sciences Research at the Smithsonian Institution.”
Lecture. Fisheries Research Board of Canada, St. Andrews, 18 June 1971.

CHESAPEAKE BAY CENTER FOR ENVIRONMENTAL STUDIES

Williamson, Francis $. L. “Ecosystem Studies of the Rhode River Watershed.”
Lecture. Chesapeake Bay Biological Research Planning Council, 19 August
1970.

“Chesapeake Bay Center for Environmental Studies.” Lecture. Wild-
life Society, D.C. Chapter, 14 October 1970.

“Virus Diseases Transmitted by Birds.’ Lecture. George Washing-
ton University Medical School, 12 November 1970.

“The Timing of Breeding and Molt in Lapland Longspur in
Alaska.” Lecture. Cooper Ornithological Society, San Diego, California, 7 April
1971.

“Global Environmental Problems and Human Population Growth.”
Lecture. ‘Towson State University, April 1971.
214 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1971

CENTER FOR SHORT-LIVED PHENOMENA

(Reports issued by the Center)

Annual Report 1970. 296 pages. May 1971.
“The Bay of Bengal Storm Surge, 12-13 November 1970.” 1 March 1971.
Bleahu, Marcian, and Liviu Constantinescu. “The Floods of Southeastern
Europe.” 27 July 1970.
Citron, Robert. “International Environmental Monitoring Programs.” 1 July
1970. Revised 10 August 1970.
“Monitoring the Planet.” Paper presented at the M.I.T. Summer
Study on Critical Environmental Problems, 1-30 July 1970. 2 July 1970.
“A Proposed International Monitoring Program for Critical Global
Environmental Problems.” 26 July 1970.

”

“The Establishment of an International Environmental Monitoring
Program—A Plan for Action.” Prepared for the United Nations Conference
on the Human Environment, Stockholm, Sweden, June 1971. May 1971.

“A Directory of National and International Environmental Monitoring Activ-
ities.” 292 pages. October 1970.

Hedervari, Peter. “A Detailed Account of the Landslide Near Dunafoldvar,
Hungary, 15 September 1970.” 21 October 1970.

“The Kiffa Meteorite Fall of 23 October 1970. May 1971.

“Notes on the Development of a United Nations Natural Disaster Program.”
Prepared for the Office of Science and Technology of the United Nations. 24
March 1971.

Rittman, Alfredo. “The Mt. Etna Volcanic Eruption of 1971.’ 3 May 1971.

Tazieff, H., and F. Le Guern. “Tectonic Nature and the Mechanism of Etna’s
Eruption of April-May 1971.” 4 June 1971.

Viramonte, Jose G., Eliseo Ubeda, and Maximiliano Martinez. “The 1971 Erup-
tion of Cerro Negro, Nicaragua.” 15 April 1971.

Yohner, Art. “Contact with a Group of Akurijo Indians of Suriname.” 5 No-
vember 1970.

OCEANOGRAPHY AND LIMNOLOGY

Higgins, R. P. “Biological Stress in Marine Ecosystems.” Lecture. University of
Libya, 10 March 1971.

Hulings, Neil C., and John S. Gray, editors. “A Manual for the Study of Meio-
fauna.” Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology, number 78 (27 April 1971),
83 pages, 13 figures, | table.

Center for the Study of Man

Tax, Sol. “Indian, Latin-American,” Encyclopaedia Britannica, 1971 edition.
“Integration of the Social Sciences through Policy Analysis.” Com-
ments on a paper by Robert E. Lane, Paper prepared for the American Acad-
emy of Political and Social Sciences Conference, June 16-17, 1971, Philadelphia.
“Foreword.” In Alicja Iwanska, Purgatory and Utopia. Schenkman
Publishers, 1971.
APPENDIX 6. PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN STAFF 215

“Foreword.” In Thorne Deuel, Scientific Papers, Vol. XIII. Illinois
State Museum, 1971.

“Current Anthropology.” Colloquim at Center for Advanced Studies
in the Behavioral Sciences, May 1970.

“The Contribution of Anthropology to Man’s Survival.” Address
at the inaugural of the President of Wilmington College, Ohio, April, 1971.

“Action Anthropology: The Ethics of Intervention.” Seminar. Wil-
mington College, Ohio, 23 April 1971.

“The Challenge of Multi-Cultural Education.’ Seminar. Wilming-
ton College, Ohio, 23 April 1971.

Tax, Sol, and Clyde Mitchell. “Urban Anthropology.” Britannica Yearbook of

Science and the Future. 1971 edition.

Science Information Exchange

Snyderman, M., and Hunt, B. L. “The Myriad Virtues of Text Compaction.”
Datamation, volume 16, number 16 (1 December 1970), pages 36-40.

National Museum of History and Technology

Bedini, Silvio A. “Hardware of History.” Paper read during panel discussion
on “The Uses of Historical Archaeology.” Annual meeting of the Society for
Historical Archaeology, National Museum of History and ‘Technology, 8
January 1971.

Bedini, Silvio A., Wernher von Braun, and Fred L. Whipple. Moon, Man’s
Greatest Adventure, 267 pages, New York: Harry N. Abrams, 1970.

Boorstin, Daniel J. The Landmark History of the American People: From Ap-
pomattox to The Moon. 192 pages. New York: Random House, 1970.

“A Case of Hypochondria,” Newsweek (6 July 1970), pages 27-29.

“Ts America Really Sick?” Reader’s Digest (September 1970), pages
ee

“The American Century—Myth vs. Reality,” U. S$. News and
World Report, 19 October 1970), pages 64-67.

“Enlarging the Historian’s Vocabulary.” In The Reinterpretation
of American Economic History, edited by Robert William Fogel and Stanley L.
Engerman, pages 11-14. New York: Harper and Row, 197].

“The Perils of Indwelling Law.” In The Rule of Law edited by
Robert Paul Wolff. New York: Simon and Schuster, 1971.

“Introduction.” In A Lady’s Life in the Rocky Mountains by Isa-
bella L. Bird. Reprint. Pages 11-19. New York: Ballantine Books, 1971.

Convocation Lecture. University of Rochester, 20 September 1970.

“Preserving American Papers.” Lecture. Society of American Archi-
vists, Washington, D.C., 30 September 1970.

“What Historians Don’t Write About.” Duquesne University His-
tory Forum, 31 October 1970.

“What is the Standard of American Living.” Lecture. USIS, Cul-
tural Americans, 3 January 1971.

“Aspects of America.” Lecture. American Club of Lisbon, 5 January
197K.
216 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1971

“The Force of Fashion in a Changing Society.” Lecture. Menswear
Retailers of America, 8 February 1971.

“The Continuity of Change.” Lecture. Casper College, 24 February
1971.

“Toward Independence.” Institute of Early American History and
Culture Seminar on the American Revolution, 9 March 1971.

“Consumer Advertising and American Culture.” Informing ‘o-
morrow’s Skeptical Consumer, Bureau of Advertising Conference, New York,
25 March 1971.

Atherton Lecture, Harvard University, 29 March 1971.

“Psycho History.” Lecture. City University of New York, 24 April
1971.

“Some Remarks About American History.” Lecture. Catholic Uni-
versity, 27 April 1971.

Gorr, Louis F. Beyond Relevance: A Collection of Essays. 340 pages. Glenview,
Illinois: Scott, Foresman and Co., 1971.

“Science for Humans.” The Progressive (May 1971), pages 48-50.

“Jacob Bigelow’s Elements of Technology: Science, Technology,
and the American Synthesis.” Paper delivered to annual meeting of the Society
for the History of Technology and the American Association for the Advance-
ment of Science, December 1970.

Marzio, Peter C. “American Lithographic Technology Before the Civil War,”
Winterthur Report, 1970.

“Lithography as a Democratic Art: A Reappraisal.” Leonardo,
Winter 1970.

Skramstad, Harold K. “Historical Archaeology and Its Relation to Historic
Preservation.” Lecture given a the Ninth Annual National Trust Woodlawn
Conference for Historic Preservation, 11 February 1971.

“Historical Archaeology, Doorway to the Past.” Lecture. Gunston
Hall, Virginia, 19 February 1971.

“Heroic Materialism: A Critique.” Lecture. Senior Honors Program
in History, University of Maryland, 29 April 1971.

“Early American History and Culture.” Graduate Field Seminar.
Smithsonian American Studies Program, St. Mary’s City, Maryland, 2 July—16
August, 1971.

“Material Aspects of American Civilization.” Graduate Seminar,
Smithsonian American Studies Program, Fall 1970.

“The Physical City: An Approach to American Urban History.”
Graduate Seminar, Smithsonian American Studies Program, Spring 197].

“American Technology and Its Cultural Impact.” Graduate Read-
ing Course, Smithsonian American Studies Program, Spring 1971.

Do It the Hard Way: Rube Goldberg and Modern Times. Foreword by Peter
C. Marzio; essays by Daniel J. Boorstin, Anne C. Golovin, and Rube Goldberg.
Catalog. The National Museum of History and Technology, Smithsonian In-
stitution. 23 November 1970.

DEPARTMENT OF APPLIED ARTS

Adrosko, Rita J. “American Textiles, 1750-1850.” Lecture. School of Archi-
tecture, Columbia University, March 1971.
APPENDIX 6. PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN STAFF PAY

“Fabric Design.” Department of Home Economics, Howard Uni-
versity, February 1971.

“Color in Early Tapestries.”” Symposium of the Inter-Society Color
Council, New York City, April 1971.

Clain-Stefanelli, Elvira. La Monnaie trésor d’art. Presentation. Paris, 1971.

South Carolina Paper Money 1770-1933. Presentation. Hampton,
Virginia, 1970.

Welcoming Address, South Carolina State Society, 6 October 1970.

“In God We Trust.’ Lecture. Women’s Association, National Pres-
byterian Church, Washington, D.C., 18 November 1970.

“The Significance of the Josiah K. Lilly Collection.” Educational
Forum, Empire State Numismatic Association Convention, Albany, New York,
4 April 1971.

“Medals as an American Art Form.” Invitational lecture. Collectors
of Art Medals, Inc., New York, 25 April 1971.

“Tl Give You A Dollar for that Penny.” Radio Smithsonian, 28
March 1971.

Clain-Stefanelli, Vladimir. ‘Coins as Documents of History.’ Lecture. The Sid-
well Friends School, 8 January 1971.

“Highlights from The National Numismatic Collections.” Educa-
tional Forum, Empire State Numismatic Association Convention, Albany, New
York, 4 April 1971.

“History of Money—A Survey.” Lecture. The University of Vir-
ginia, Extension Program, Winter 1971.

“Ancient Roman Coins.’’ Collaborator, Seminar. Maryland Univer-
sity, Spring 1971.

“T'll Give You A Dollar for that Penny” Radio Smithsonian, 28
March 1971.

“The Bald Eagle.” Collaborator for Film Project, National Wildlife
Foundation, 31 March 1971.

Haberstich, David E. “Foreword.” In The Hand of Man on America. Catalog.
Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1970.

“Collecting and Exhibiting Photographs at the Smithsonian.” Lec-

ture. North Bethesda Camera Club, Bethesda, Maryland, 24 February 1971.

Hargest, George E. “History of Letter Post Communication Between the United
States and Europe, 1845-1875,” Smithsonian Studies in History and Technology,
number 6 (10 February 1971), ix + 234 pages, 126 figures, 34 tables.

McHugh, Maureen Collins, “Wet-Cleaning Coverlets.”” Shuttle, Spindle and Dye-
pot, volume 1 number 3 (June 1970), 2 pages, 3 illustrations.

Norby, Reidar. ‘Sweden’s New Return Postage Stamps,” The Posthorn, volume
27, number 2 (1970), pages 23-24.

“Improving Philatelic Terminology,” Scandinavian Scribe, volume
6, number 6 (1970), pages 104-105.

“Scandinavian Varieties.” Scandinavian Scribe, volume 6 (1970),
pages 113, 119, 148-149, 169, 188-189, 221; volume 7 (1971), pages 5, 37, 79,
Ob aulo:

“A Postal Look at Scandinavia, 1968.” Scandinavian Scribe, volume
7, number | (1971), page 16.

“Icelandic Cancellation Mystery Solved.” Scandinavian Scribe, vol-
ume 7, number | (1971), page 18.
218 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1971

“Norway NK No. 44—Issue Date to Advance?’’ Scandinavian
Scribe, volume 7 (1971), number 3, page 58 and number 4, pages 63-64.

“Warning—Greenland Polar Bear ‘Proofs’ Sheer Nonsense.” Scan-
dinavian Scribe, volume 7, number 5 (1971), pages 83-85.

“Smithsonian’s Role in Philately.’ Lecture. Stamp Society, Lynch-
burg, Virginia, 6 October 1970.

“Smithsonian’s Special Exhibition Stamps and Posts of Scandi-
navia.”” Lecture. North Jersey Scandinavian Collectors Club, Upper Montclair,
New Jersey, 19 November 1970.

“Smithsonian and Scandinavia, and Philately.” Lecture. Norwegian
Postal Administration, Oslo, Norway, 19 March 197].

Norby, Reidar, Ellen E. Roney, and Carl H. Scheele. “Smithsonian Philatelic
Booklist.” S$. P. A. Journal, volume 32, number 11 (July 1970).

Ostroff, Eugene. “Photographs, Inventors, and Photographers.” Lecture. Pro-
fessional staff and research laboratory, E. I. DuPont de Nemours, Inc., Parlin,
New Jersey, May 1971.

——————.. “Conservation of Photographs and Related Documents.” Four
2-day seminars, under the auspices of the Smithsonian and the Institute for
Graphic Communications, for museum personnel, archivists, librarians, and
professional photographers.

“The History of Photography.” Smithsonian Associates course,
spring 1971.

“Photography, History and the Smithsonian.” Lecture. Brooklyn
Camera Club, New York, June 1971.

Scheele, Carl H. Neither Snow, Nor Rain ...: The Story of the United States
Mails. 99 pages, 85 illustrations. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution
Press, 1970.

“Impact of Technology on American Music, 1923-1950.” Lecture.
Smithsonian Associates, the National Museum of History and Technology,
20 May 1971.

‘Postal Perspectives and Philatelic Evidence: The Classics Period.”
Lecture. U.S. Philatelic Classics Society, Washington, D.C., 22 May 1971.

“The Burden of the Far West: U.S. Mails and the Turner Thesis.”
Lecture. Western Postal History Conference, Tucson, Arizona, 25 May 1971.

“The Western Post Office Under Buchanan and Lincoln.” Lecture.
Western Postal History Conference, Phoenix, Arizona, 26 May 1971.

Turner, Craig J. “Punches Feature Effort to Foil Stamp Cleaners.” Linn’s
Weekly Stamp News, volume 44, number 5 (1 February 1971), pages 18, 19,
20, 23.

”

“Bored with Collectingg—Try a New Country.” Linn’s Weekly
Stamp News, volume 44, number 18 (3 May 1971), pages 15 and 20.

DEPARTMENT OF CULTURAL HISTORY

Ahlborn, Richard E. “American Beginnings: Prints in Sixteenth-Century Mex-
ico.” 1970 Wintherthur Conference Report: Prints In and of America to 1850.
23 pages, 12 illustrations. Winterthur, Delaware: Henry Francis du Pont
Winterthur Museum, 1970.

“Santos y Penitentes.” Americas, volume 22, number 10 (October
1970), pages 6-13, 15 illustrations.
APPENDIX 6. PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN STAFF 219

“Later Colonial Arts of Spanish North America.” Lecture. Summer
Institute of the Winterthur Museum, Winterthur, Delaware, August 1970.

“The Religious Arts of Spanish New Mexico.” Lecture. Hancock
Village, Hancock, Massachusetts, November 1970.

Fesperman, John T. “A Snetzler Chamber Organ of 1761.” Smithsonian Studies
in History and Technology, number 8 (15 December 1970), 56 pages, 20 figures.

———. “Two Important Mexican Organs,” The Organ, volume 196, num-
ber 49 (1970), pages 179-183.

————.. “A New Organ for George Washington’s Parish Church.” Journal
of Church Music (October 1970), pages 2-4, 3 plates. Philadelphia.

Lecture recital for American Guild of Organists national conclave,
29 December 1970.

Golovin, Anne C. “Daniel Trotter: Eighteenth-Century Philadelphia Cabinet-
maker.” Winterthur Portfolio 6, pages 152-184. Charlottesville, Va.: Published
for the Henry Francis du Pont Winterthur Museum by the University Press
of Virginia, 1970.

Kidwell, Claudia. ‘The Costume Study Group.” Discussion series. Division of
Costume and Furnishings, National Museum of History and Technology

Watkins, C. Malcolm. “Artificial Lighting in the Old South.” Lecture. Anti-
quarian Society of Richmond, Virginia, 12 January 1971.

“American Folk Pottery.” Lecture. Bethesda Ceramics Guild, at the
National Museum of History & Technology, 10 March 1971.

“Significance of Historical Archaeology for History Museums.”
Paper presented at Annual Meeting of the Society for Historical Archaeology,
8 January 1971.

Weaver, James M. Six Sonatas for violin and harpsichord, Two Sonatas for
violin and basso continuo. (J. S. Bach). With Sonya Monosoff, violinist; Judith
Davidoff, viola da gamba, using instruments from the Smithsonian collection.
Cambridge, 3 records. CRS B 2822 (Stereo Recording).

Three Scenes for Soprano and a Harpsichord Suite. (Purcell,
Handel). With Carole Bogard, soprano. Cambridge, CRS 2709 (Stereo Re-
cording).

Cantata 51 (Bach). With Carole Bogard. Cambridge, CRS 2710
(Stereo Recording).

Su le Sponde del Tebro (A. Scarlatti). With Carole Bogard. Cam-
bridge, CRS 2710 (Stereo Recording).

Arias (Handel). With Carole Bogard. Cambridge, CRS 2712 (Stereo
Recording).

Concerto in C for Trumpet (Ghitalla). Haydn. Cambridge, CRS
2823 (Stereo Recording).

DEPARTMENT OF INDUSTRIES

Chapelle, Howard I. “History of Shipbuilding in Maryland.” Lecture. His-
torical Society of Cambridge, Maryland, 15 May 1970.
“18th Century Shipbuilding in America.” Lecture. Muson Institute,
Mystic, Connecticut, 8 July 1970.
“Construction of Fast Motor Boats in the 20th Century.” Lecture.
Antique Auxiliary of the Thousand Island Museum, Clayton, New York, 15
August 1970.

441-283 O - 71 - 15
220 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1971

’

“History of Naval Architecture in America.” Lecture. Society of
Naval Architects and Marine Engineers, Charleston, South Carolina, September
1970.

Chapelle, Howard I., and Polland, Leon D. “The Constellation Question.”
Smithsonian Studies in History and Technology, number 5 (30 October 1970),
152 pages, 53 figures.

Edson, W. D., and John H. White, Jr. “The Lima Locomotive Works.” Bulletin
Railway and Locomotive Historical Society, 123 (October 1970), pages 81-102.

Gardner, Paul V. “American and European Ceramics of the 18th and 19th
Centuries.” Symposium, Columbia Museum of Art, Columbia, South Carolina,
4 November 1970.

Geoghegan, William E. “Study for a Scale Model of U.S.S. Carondelet.” Nau-
tical Research Journal, volume 17, number 3 (fall 1970), pages 147-163. Con-
tinued in Winter 1970, volume 17, number 4, pages 231-240.

Hoffman, John N. Centennial History of Prince Edwin Lodge, Middletown,
Pennsylvania. 116 pages. Harrisburg, Pennsylvania: Central Publishing Co.,
Ne yfile

“Girard Estate Coal Lands 1830-1884.’ Paper given for the Du-
quesne History Forum in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, 29 October 1970.

“Future Energy Sources for the United States.’’ Illustrated lecture.
Industrial War College, Fort McNair, Washington, D.C., 20 January 1971.

“Stockpiling Strategic Mineral Supplies.” Illustrated Lecture. In-
dustrial War College, Fort McNair, Washington, D.C., 27 January 1971.

“Strategic Mineral Supplies of the U.S.” Illustrated lecture. Army
Mobilization Detachment, Army Map Service, 17 February 1971.

Knowles, James A. “Colonial Ship Model HMs AMERICA.” Nautical Research
Journal, volume 17, number 4 (winter 1970), pages 223-228.

“The Building of the 4th Rate America.” Nautical Research Jour-
nal, volume 17, number 4 (winter 1970), pages 229-230.

Miller, J. Jefferson, II. Comments on “Ceramics in Suffolk County, Massachu-
setts, Inventories, 1680-1775.” The Conference on Historic Site Archaeology
Papers, volume 3. Columbia, South Carolina: University of South Carolina,
Institute of Archaeology and Anthropology, 1970.

Miller, J. Jefferson, II, and Lyle M. Stone. “Eighteenth-Century Ceramics From
Fort Michilimackinac.” Smithsonian Studies in History and Technology, num-
ber 4 (31 December 1970), ix + 130 pages, 56 figures, 9 tables.

Schlebecker, John T. “Living Historical Farms: A Major New Program Takes
Shape.” Early American Life (January-February 1971), pages 8-13, 54-59. Re-
print of Living Historical Farms: A Walk Into the Past.

“Living Historic Farms Tell It Like It Was.” In Contours of
Change, pages 229-236, illustrated. Washington: Yearbook of Agriculture,
1970.

“Living Historical Farms.” Paper given for the Symposium of
Early American Agriculture held at Old Sturbridge Village, September 1970.

Sharrer, G. Terry. “Indigo in Carolina, 1671-1796.” South Carolina Historical

Magazine, volume 72, number 2 (April 1971), pages 94-103.

George Washington Carver. Foldout. 19 October 1970.

“America’s Agricultural Revolution 1783-1860.” Lecture. Maryland
University, October 1970.

“America’s Agricultural Revolution 1865-1945.” Lecture. Maryland
University, April 1971.
APPENDIX 6. PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN STAFF 292)

Sinclair, Angus. Development of the Locomotive Engine. Annotated edition
prepared by John H. White, Jr., with new chapter, pages 662-692. Cambridge,
Massachusetts: The M.I.T. Press, 1970.

Wessel, Thomas R. The Honey Bee. Smithsonian Information Leaflet 482 (1967).
Revised 17 June 1971.

White, John H., Jr. “The Steam Fire Engine: A Reappraisal of a Cincinnati
‘First.’” Bulletin of the Cincinnati Historical Society, volume 28, number 4
(winter 1970), pages 317-335.

DEPARTMENT OF NATIONAL AND MILITARY HISTORY

Goins, Craddock R., Jr. “Research and Development in American Military
Small Arms, 1800-1865.” Lecture. United States Air Force Research and De-
velopment Squadron K, Washington, D.C., September 1970.

“Firearms in American History from the Collections of the Smith-
sonian Institution.” Lecture. American Society of Arms Collectors, Houston,
Texas, September 1970.

Hoff, Arne (Director, Royal Danish Arsenal Museum). Lecture. ‘“The Evaluation
of Firearms.” National Museum of History and Technology, April 1970.
Langley, Harold D. “Changing Viewpoints on the Causes of the American
Revolution,” Lecture. George Washington Chapter, Virginia Society of the

Sons of the American Revolution, Spring 1970.

“A History of the Conservation Movement in the United States.”
Lecture. Earth Day Ceremonies, The Catholic University of America, April
1970.

“The Diplomatic History of the United States.” Seminar. The
Catholic University of America, fall and spring semester, 1970.

“The American Age of Enterprise, 1815-1860.” Seminar. The Cath-
olic University of America, fall semester 1970.

“The Rise of the American City, 1860-1914.” Seminar. The Catho-
lic University of America, spring semester, 1971.

Lundeberg, Philip K. ‘The Emergence of Undersea Warfare in Northern Eu-
rope.” Paper delivered at the Annual Meeting of the Association for the Ad-
vancement of Baltic Studies, at San Jose State College, San Jose, California,
November 1970.

“Development of the National Collection of Warship Models.’ Semi-
nar on Maritime History, Ecole des Hautes Etudes Practiques, Sorbonne, Paris,
Spring 1970.

DEPARTMENT OF SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY

Davis, Audrey B. “Some Implications of the Circulation Theory for Disease
Theory and Treatment in the Seventeenth Century.” Journal of the History
of Medicine and Allied Sciences, volume 26 (January 1971), pages 28-39, 2
illustrations.

“The Virtue of the Cortex in 1680: A Letter from Charles Goodall
to Mr. H.” Medical History (July 1971).

“Seventeenth Century Circulation Physiology.” Lecture. University
of Maryland, March 1971.

“Innovation in Dental Medicine—The Historian’s Role.’ Lecture
222. SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1971

to Curators, Department of Science and Technology, Smithsonian Institution,
27 July 1971.
Finn, Bernard S. “The History of Submarine Telegraphy.” Paper delivered

at the Annual Meeting of the History of Technology Society, Chicago, Illinois,
December 1970.

Hamarneh, Sami K. “Pharmacy and Medical Therapy in Medieval Islam.” Lec-
ture. College of Pharmacy, University of Illinois, Chicago, Illinois, 13 January
LOA

“The Physician and the Health Professions in Medieval Islam.”
Lecture. New York Academy of Medicine, 24 March 1971.

“U.S. Pharmacy Museums.” Lecture. First session of the American
Institute of The History of Pharmacy’s Section on Contributed Papers, ATHP
Annual Meeting, San Francisco, California, 29 March 1971.

“Historical Development of Arabic Pharmacy and Pharmacology.”
Lecture. College of Pharmacy, University of Arizona, Tuscon, Arizona, | April
1971.

“The History of Pharmacy Museums” and “The Origins of Pro-
fessional Pharmacy.” Lecture. Annual Meeting of the Japanese Society of His-
tory of Pharmacy and the opening of the Naito Pharmacy Museum, Tokyo,
Japan, 12-13 June 1971.

Mayr, Otto. The Origins of Feedback Control. Cambridge, Massachusetts: MIT
Press, 1970.

“Origins of Feedback Control.” Scientific American, volume 223,
number 4 (October 1970), pages 110-118.

“Revolution of Electrical Technology (1870-1900), Science, volume
170 (1970), pages 1339-40.

“Adam Smith and the Concept of the Feedback System.” Tech-
nology and Culture, volume 12 (1971), pages 1-22.

“Nineteenth Century Physicists and the Problem of Speed Regu-
lation.” Paper. Annual Meeting of the History of Science Society in Chicago,
Illinois, December 1970.

Merzbach, Uta C. Of Levers and Electrons, Learning and Enlightenment: The
Technological Augmentation of Cognition in the United States since 1776. 56
pages. Washington, D.C.: Thiel Press. 1971.

Vogel, Robert M., “Speculations on the History and Original Appearance of the
Last Bollman Truss.” Industrial Archaeology, volume 7 (November 1970), 15
pages, 5 figures.

“Civil Engineering History and Industrial Archaeology.” Paper.
Princeton University, Princeton, New Jersey, 15 October 1970.

“Industrial Archaeology.” Lecture. Columbia University graduate
course on Architectural Preservation, 1 December 1970.

“Roebling’s Delaware & Hudson Canal Aqueducts.”” Smithsonian
Studies in History and Technology, number 10 (26 April 1971), 45 pages, 57
figures.

Warner, Deborah Jean. “The First Modern Sky Maps Reconsidered.” Archives
internationales d’histoire des Sciences (1969), volume 22 (1971), pages 263-266.

“Lewis Morris Rutherfurd: Pioneer Astronomical Photographer and
Spectroscopist.” Technology and Culture, volume 12 (1971), pages 190-216.
APPENDIX 6. PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN STAFF 993,

National Collection of Fine Arts

Breeskin, Adelyn D. “20th-Century American Artists.’’ Lecture. Wives Seminar
of the Foreign Service Institute, Washington, D.C. (Monthly lecture).

Mary Cassatt: A Catalogue Raisonne of the Oils, Pastels, Water-
colors, and Drawings. Catalog. 322 pages, 925 illustrations, 15 color plates.
Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1970.

“Mary Cassatt.” Lecture. Twentieth Century Club, Washington,
D.C., 14 October 1970.

“Mary Cassatt.” Lecture. National Gallery of Art, Washington, D.C.,
18 October 1970.

“Into the Arts.”’ TV Interview. WRC-TV, “Circumference.” Chan-
nel 4, Washington, D.C., 30 November 1970.

“Various Aspects of Painting, 1970.” Lecture. National League of
American Pen Women, Sarasota Branch, Sarasota, Florida. 7 January 1971.

“The Cone Sisters and the Baltimore Museum of Art.” Lecture.
Smithsonian Associates, Washington, D.C., 8 February 1971.

“The 1971 Area Exhibition of Painting and Graphics.” Lecture.
Fairfax Cultural Committee, Northern Virginia Community College, Annan-
dale, Virginia, 21 February 1971.

“Problems Facing the Arts.” Lecture. Fine Arts Festival Committee,
College of Charleston, Charleston, South Carolina, 20 March 1971.

“Mary Cassatt.’ Lecture. Vienna Society of Artists, Vienna Com-
munity Center, Vienna, Virginia. 10 June 1971.

H. Lyman Sayen. Catalog. 83 pages, 51 illustrations. Washington,
D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1970.

Romaine Brooks, “Thief of Souls.’ Catalog. 143 pages, 85 illustra-
tions. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1971.

Fink, Lois. “American Artists in Paris, 1850-1870.’ Lecture. National Collection
of Fine Arts, Washington, D.C., 25 February 1971.
“Contemporary French Art in the United States, 1850-1870.” Lec-
ture. National Collection of Fine Arts, Washington, D.C., 25 March 1971.
Flint, Janet. “Five Paintings From Thomas Nast’s Grand Caricaturama.” Lec-
ture. National Collection of Fine Arts, Washington, D.C., 4 August 1970.
McClelland, Donald R. Paintings by Edwin Scott. Catalog. 55 pages, 35 illus-
trations. Introduction by Henri Focillon; Biographical notes by Donald
McClelland, July 1970.

“Mr. Corcoran and His Architect, James Renwick.” Lecture. The
Art League and Museum Association, Huntsville, Alabama, 22 January 1971.

“Making a Collection.” Seminar. The Art League and Museum
Association, Huntsville, Alabama, 21 January 1971.

Taylor, Joshua C. “Vedere Prima Di Credere.” 94 pages, 29 illustrations. Florence,
Italy: Italia Nuova, 1970.

“Environment and the Mind.” Lecture. University of Oregon, Eu-
gene, Oregon, 28 February 1971.

“The Live Museum.” Lecture. Liberal Arts Committee, Women’s
National Democratic Club, Washington, D.C., 4 March 1971.

“To Catch the Eye and Hold the Mind: The Museum as Educator.”
Lecture. National Art Education Association Conference, Dallas, Texas, 8
April 1971.
224 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1971

“Art and the University.” Lecture. Southeastern College Art Con-
ference, Virginia Commonwealth University, Richmond, Virginia, 23 April
Al

“What is an Art School?” Lecture. Portland Art Museum, Portland,
Oregon, 30 May 1971.

National Portrait Gallery

Stewart, Robert G. Henry Benbridge (1743-1812): American Portrait Painter.
Catalog. 93 pages, 121 figures. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution
Press, 1971.

Cooper-Hewitt Museum of Decorative Arts and Design

Beer, Alice Baldwin. “Chintzes and Indian Trade.” Lecture. Society for the
Preservation of New England Antiquities, Boston, Massachusetts, 20 January
1971.

“Early American Fabrics.” Lecture. Fort Tryon, New Bern, North
Carolina, 8 March 1971.

“Embroideries.” Lecture. Plandome Historical Society, Women’s
Club, Plandome, Long Island, New York, 11 May 1971.

Sonday, Milton F., Jr. “A Curator and a Handweaver Discussion.” Lecture.
New York Guild of Handweavers, Y.W.C.A., New York City, 5 December 1970.

“An Approach to the Understanding of Museum Textiles.” Lecture.
Philadelphia Academy of Art, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, 16 February 1971.

Sonday, Milton F., Jr., and Nobuko Kajitani. “A Type of Mughal Sash.” The
Textile Museum Journal (December 1970), 184 pages.

Taylor, Lisa. “New Roles for Museums.” Lecture. Hunter College, New York
City, 23 April 1971.

”

National Armed Forces Museum Advisory Board

Hutchins, James S. “Introduction.” In Ordnance Memoranda No. 29: Horse
Equipments and Cavalry Accoutrements as Prescribed by G.O. 73, A.G.O.,
1885, Pasadena: Socio-Technical Publications, 1970.

“The United States Cavalry Saddle, McClellan Pattern, Model
1857, in T¢jhusmuseet, Copenhagen.” Vaabenhistoriske Aarbgger, volume 16
1970), pages 145-165.

“Captain McClellan’s Saddle.” Seminar. 21st Annual Meeting, Com-
pany of Military Historians, United States Coast Guard Academy, 24 April
1971.

Stokesberry, James J. “U.S.S. Tecumseh: ‘Treasure in Mobile Bay.
Missouri Historical Society, St. Louis, Missouri, 26 March 1971.

”

Lecture.

Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars

Anglemyer, Mary. “Natural Resources: A Selection of Bibliographies.” EARI
Development Series Report, number 3, 145 pages. U.S. Engineer Agency for
Resources Inventories, Washington, D.C., 1970.
APPENDIX 6. PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN STAFF 295

Office of American Studies

Harold K. Skramstad. ‘“The Georgetown Canal Incline.” Technology and Cul-
ture, volume 10, number 4 (October 1969), pages 549-560.

“St. Mary’s City: Possibility of a Training Site.” Museum News,
volume 48, number 5 (January 1970), pages 24-26.

“The Engineer as Architect in Washington: The Contribution of
Montgomery Meigs.” Records of the Columbia Historical Society, volume 69-
70 (1969-1970), pages 266-284.

Washburn, Wilcomb E. “Dedication.” In special issue of William and Mary
Quarterly dedicated to Lester Cappon, former Director, Institute of Early Amer-
ican History and Culture. William and Mary Quarterly, third series, volume 26,
number 3 (July 1969), pages 323-326.

“Representation of Unknown Lands in XIV-, XV- and XVI-Cen-
tury Cartography.” In Revista da Universidade de Coimbra, volume 24, paper
number 35, pages 1-20. Coimbra, Portugal: Junta de Investigacoes do Ultra-
mar, Lisbon, 1969.

“The Oriental Purpose of the Arctic Navigations.” In Etudes
d’Histoire Maritime, presented at the XIII International Congress of His-
torical Sciences, International Commission of Maritime History, Moscow,
August 1970. Multilith (Paris 1970), pages 131-146.

“American Studies at the Smithsonian Institution.” American Quar-
terly, volume 22, number 2, part 2 (Summer 1970), pages 560-570.

“Out of the Clouds and Into the Earth: New Directions for Ameri-
can Studies.” In Challenges in American Culture, edited by Ray B. Browne,
Larry N. Landrum, and William K. Bottorff, pages 55-60. Bowling Green,
Ohio: Bowling Green University Popular Press, 1970.

“The Society of American Indians,” The Indian Historian, volume
3, number 1 (Winter i970), pages 21-23.

Smithsonian Institution Archives
Lytle, Richard H. “Ethics of Information Management.” Records Management
Quarterly, volume 4, number 4 (October 1970), pages 5-8.
Office of Seminars
Eisenberg J. F., and Wilton S. Dillon, editors. Man and Beast: Comparative
Social Behavior. 401 pages, 29 figures, 3 tables. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian
Institution Press, 1971.
Office of Museum Programs
Welsh, Peter C. The Genteel Female. Catalog. 16 pages, 6 illustrations. Wash-
ington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service, 1970.

“Two Ladies from New York.” New York Folklore Quarterly
(March 1971), pages 83-96.
226 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1971

“Dexter.” International Trotter and Pacer (July-August 1970),
pages 11, 20-21.

“Lady Suffolk.” International Trotter and Pacer (September-Oc-
tober 1970), pages 13-14.

“Ethan Allen.” International Trotter and Pacer (November-Decem-
ber 1970), pages 20, 40.

“Flora Temple.” International Trotter and Pacer (spring 1971),
pages 16, 26-27.

“Trottings First Century.” Hoofbeats (U.S. Trotting Association,
May 1971), pages 88-112.

“The Youthful Mood of Patriotism, 1750-1850.” Lecture. New York
State Historical Association Colloquium on American Folk Art, 28-30 June
1971.

Conservation-Analytical Laboratory

Eirk, K. “A Study of the Deteriorating Effects of Some Common Bleaches and
Solvents on Paper.” Lecture. Washington Region Conservation Guild, February
Ale

“Conservation of a George Washington Print Mounted on a
Wooden Panel.” Lecture. Washington Region Conservation Guild, April 1971.

Hopwood, W. R. “A Few Methods for Measuring the pH of Paper.” Lecture.
Washington Region Conservation Guild, February 1971.

McMillan, E. “Notes on Paper.” Bulletin, International Institute for Conserva-
tion—American Group, volume 2, number 2 (1971) pages 16-19.

Organ, R. M. “Chemistry of Conservation,” Lecture series on conservation
procedures. Smithsonian Institution, fall and winter, 1970-1971.

“Conservation Problems.” Lecture. Society for Historic Archae-
ology, Washington, D.C., 7 January 1971.
—————. “Study and Stabilization of Metallic Museum Objects.’
National Bureau of Standards Metallurgical Group, 2 March 1971.
“Conservation of Metals.” 2 day seminar. Cooperstown Graduate
Program, New York State Historical Society, April 1971.
“Problems of Conservation.” Lecture. Philatelic Classics Association,
20 May 1971.

Lecture.

Smithsonian Institution Libraries

Clemmer, Dan O., Jr., and Russell Shank. “Interlibrary and Information Net-
works.” In The Bowker Annual of Library and Book Trade Information, pages
299-303. New York: R. R. Bowker, 1971.

Goodwin, Jack. “Current Bibliography in the History of Technology (1969).”
Technology and Culture, volume 12 (1971), pages 269-327.

“A Preliminary Survey of Materials Available for the Study of
American Library History in Washington, D.C.” Paper presented at the third
Conference on Library History, Florida State University, Tallahassee, Florida,
March 1971.

“New Problems and New Goals of Museum Librarianship.” Paper
presented at a joint meeting of the Museums, Arts, and Humanties Division
APPENDIX 6. PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN STAFF D227

and the Picture Division of the Special Libraries Association, San Francisco,
California, June 1971.
.‘The History of Books and Printing.” Paper presented to ninety
sixth grade students, Riverside School, Fairfax County, Virginia, April 1971.
“Architectural Books in the Smithsonian Libraries.” Paper pre-
sented to a visiting graduate seminar from Columbia University, at the Mu-
seum of History and Technology, April 1971.

Shank, Russell, et al. A Library Network for Western Canada: Automation for
Rationalization in College and University Libraries in Alberta, Saskatchewan
and Manitoba. 76 pages. Kent, Ohio: Kent Center for Library Studies, February
1971.

Shank, Russell, and Caroline Arden Bull. Non-Conventional File Structure
Data-Collecting Projects in the Smithsonian Institution: A Survey, Winter
1968—Spring 1969. 95 pages, Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Libra-
ries, December 1970.

Office of Public Affairs

“Bibliography on Anatomy and Osteology of Recent Vertebrates.” Division of
Vertebrate Paleontology, Information Leaflet 71-1.

“Bibliography on Field and Laboratory Techniques.” Division of Vertebrate
Paleontology, Information Leaflet 71-2.

“Storing Old Garments in the Home.” Division of Costume and Furnishings,
Information Leaflet 71-3.

“Taxidermy Procedures and Animal Preparation.” Division of Mammals, In-
formation Leaflet 71-4.

“References to American Domestic Architecture.” Division of Cultural History,
Information Leaflet 71-5.

“Smithsonian Institution Photographic Services Processing Fees and Policy.”
Information Leaflet 71-6.

“Bibliography on United States Coins and Paper Currencies.” Division of Nu-
mismatics, Information Leaflet 71-7.

“The Passenger Pigeon.” Division of Birds, Information Leaflet 71-8.

“Suggested Publications on Fossil Fishes.” Division of Fishes, Information
Leaflet 71-9.

“Available Publications of Bureau of American Ethnology.” Information Leaf-
let 71-10.

“Selected Photographs Illustrating North American Indian Life in Various Cul-
tural Areas.” National Anthropological Archives, Information Leaflet 71-11.

“Suggested References on American Period Costume.” Division of Costume and
Furnishings, Information Leaflet 71-12.

“Notes on Antiques.” Division of Cultural History, Information Leaflet 71-13

“Jacquard Woven Tapestries.” Division of Textiles, Information Leaflet 71-14.

“Jacquard Woven Silk Pictures.” Division of Textiles, Information Leaflet 71-
15.

“Bibliography on Stevengraphs.” Division of Textiles, Information Leaflet 71-
16.
228 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1971

Reading Is Fundamental

Action for Change. 24 pages. Summer 1970.
RIF’s Guide to Developing a Program. 16 pages. Fall 1970.
RIF Newsletter, Volume 1, issue 1 (March 1971), 4 pages. Volume I, issue 2
(June 1971), 4 pages.
Smollar, Eleanor B., editor. RIF’s Guide to Book Selection. 80 pages, Summer
1970.
RIF’s Guide to Book Selection: Supplement 1. 20 pages. Fall 1970.
This Book Belongs to... Me! 67 pages. Summer 1968.

Information Systems Division

Roth, H. Daniel. “Cluster Analysis for the Biological and Social Sciences.”
Smithsonian Institution Information Systems Innovations, volume 2, number 2
(December 1970), 35 pages, illustrated.

“Multivariate Statistics.” Seminar. National Museum of Natural
History, Smithsonian Institution, 1970.

“Mathematics in Biology.” Seminar. Coppins State College, Balti-
more, Maryland, May 1971.

National Gallery of Art

Bullard, E. John. Edgar Degas. New York: McGraw-Hill, Inc., 1971.

Cooke, H. Lester. Dogs, Cats, Horses and Other Animals at the National
Gallery of Art. Richmond, Virginia: Westover, 1970.

“The Louvre.” National Geographic Magazine (June 1971).

The National Gallery in Washington. Italy: Novaro, 1970.

The National Gallery of Art. Knorr & Hirth, 1970.

Pictures within Pictures at the National Gallery of Art. Richmond,
Virginia: Westover, 1970.

Evans, Grose. Vincent van Gogh. New York: McGraw-Hill, Inc., 1971.

Lewis, Douglas. “Il problema della villa e le piantagione americane.” Bollettino
del Centro Internazionale di Studi de Architettura “Andrea Palladio,’ volume
12 (1970).

“Un nuovo disegno autografo de Michele Sanmicheli,” Bollettino
dei Museo Civici Veneziani, volume 16 (1971), numbers 3-4.

Parkhurst, Charles. “Art Museums and Environmental Education,” pages 161-
164, in Museums and the Environment: A Handbook for Education. Washing-
ton, D.C.: American Association of Museums, 1971.

Ravenel, Gaillard, Charles Talbot, and Jay Levenson. Diirer in America:
His Graphic Work. Washington, D.C.: National Gallery of Art, 1971.

Watson, Ross. William Hogarth: Paintings from the Collection of Mr. & Mrs.
Paul Mellon, Washington, D.C.: National Gallery of Art, 1971.
Appendix 7

ACADEMIC APPOINTMENTS
1970-1971

Postdoctoral Visiting Research Associates

Program in American History

LEONARD P. Curry. Roots of American urbanism, 1800-1850, with Dr. Wilcomb

Washburn, American Studies Program, from 15 August 1970 to 14 August
1971.

Program in Anthropology

JAmes T. RAuH. An investigation of the structure of the Borgia group of manu-
scripts, with Dr. Clifford Evans, National Museum of Natural History, from
1 December 1970 to 31 August 1971.

Mario JosE SANojA. Ecology and cultural areas in pre-Columbian Venezuela,
with Dr. Clifford Evans, National Museum of Natural History, from 1 Sep-
tember 1970 to 31 August 1971.

Davip GENTRY STEELE. A re-evaluation of the within-group variation of the
family Tupaiidae, with Dr. Lawrence Angel, National Museum of Natural
History, from 1 July 1970 to 30 June 1971.

Program in Environmental Sciences

CLARKE Brooks. Analysis of algal biliproteins, with Dr. Elizabeth Gantt, Ra-
diation Biology Laboratory, from 1 July 1970 to 30 June 1971.

Jack H. Burk. Production and energy status of deciduous tree species with
regard to annual cycle of energy utilization and standing crop, with Dr.
Francis S. L. Williamson, Chesapeake Bay Center for Environmental Studies,
from 1 September 1970 to 31 August 1971.

STEPHEN I. ROTHSTEIN. An experimental investigation of host preferences in
the brown-headed cowbird, with Dr. Francis S$. L. Williamson, Chesapeake
Bay Center for Environmental Studies, from 1 September 1970 to 31 August
1971.

PENELOPE WILLIAMSON. Foraging behavior of the starling, Sturnus vulgaris,
with Dr. George Watson, National Museum of Natural History, from 15
September 1970 to 14 September 1971.

Program in Evolutionary and Behavioral Biology, Tropical Zones

AuicIA BREYMEYER. Ecology of grasslands environments in tropical zones, with

229
230 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1971

Dr. Martin Moynihan, Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, from 1 No-
vember 1970 to 30 April 1971.

JEFFREY B. GRAHAM. Studies in the biology of the amphibious clinid, Mnierpes
macrocephalus, with Dr. Michael Robinson and Dr. Ira Rubinoff, Smithsonian
Tropical Research Institute, from 1 September 1970 to 31 August 1971.

Tan N. Heatey. The role of animals in decomposition processes in the tropical
forest, with Dr. Martin Moynihan, Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute,
from 1 January 1971 to 31 December 1971.

James R. Karr. Comparisons of structure of avian communities in selected
tropical areas, with Dr. Neal Smith, Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute,
from | January 1971 to 30 June 1971.

EuGENE Morton. Ecological aspects of communication in birds, with Dr.
Neal Smith, Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, from 1 January 1971
to 30 June 1971.

Program in Evolutionary and Systematic Biology

O. SYLVESTER ADEGOKE. Tertiary paleontology of southern Nigeria and ecology
and distribution of living Foraminifera in the Gulf of Guinea, with Dr.
Richard Cifelli, National Museum of Natural History, from 1 August 1970 to
31 July 1971.

ARNFRIED ANTONIUS. Occurrence and distribution of stony corals in Venezuelan
waters, with Dr. Klaus Ruetzler, National Museum of Natural History, from
1 August 1970 to 31 July 1971.

JAmEs A. DoyLe. Studies on angiosperm pollen and megafossils of the Potomac
Group (Cretaceous) of Maryland and Virginia, with Dr. Leo J. Hickey, Na-
tional Museum of Natural History, from 1 October 1970 to 30 September 1971.

TER-CHIEN HuANG. Deep sea sedimentation in the western Mediterranean Sea,
with Dr. Daniel Stanley, National Museum of Natural History, from 1 Jan-
uary 1970 to 1 January 1971.

Jerry A. POWELL. Biosystematic study of Neotropical Sparganothidini (Lepidop-
tera: Tortricidae) , with Dr. Donald Duckworth, National Museum of Natural
History, from 1 September 1970 to 31 August 1971.

Program in History of Art and Music

Robert E. EviAson. Early American wind instruments and their makers, with
Mrs. Cynthia Hoover, National Museum of History and Technology, from
15 July 1970 to 14 July 1971.

Francis V. O’Connor. Historical studies of American art of the 1930s, with
Dr. Joshua C. Taylor, National Collection of Fine Arts, from 1 September 1970
to 31 August 1971.

Program in History of Science and Technology

SANDRA S. HERBERT. Erasmus Darwin’s materialistics physiology and its impor-
tance for his grandson Charles’ discovery of evolution through natural selec-
tion, with Dr. Audrey Davis, National Museum of History and Technology,
from | June 1970 to 31 May 1971.

Program in Physical Sciences

MarTIN R. FLANNERY. Theoretical investigations of certain atomic and molec-
APPENDIX 7. ACADEMIC APPOINTMENTS 93]

ular processes relevant to the earth’s atmosphere, stellar and planetary atmo-
spheres, and H I, H II regions of the sun, with Dr. Alexander Dalgarno,
Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory, from 1 September 1970 to 1 March
oT.

Joun J. Gurney. Electron microprobe studies of kimberlite and its associated
ultrabasic xenoliths, with Dr. Brian Mason, National Museum of Natural
History, from 1 November 1970 to 31 October 1971.

LAWRENCE N. Mertz. Development of astronomical instrumentation, with Dr.
N. P. Carleton, Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory, from 1 July 1970 to
30 June 1971.

JerFrEY TAyLor. Petrological and chemical research on lunar samples and
theoretical interpretation and research on the metallic minerals in chondritic
meteorites, with Dr. John Wood, Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory, from
1 September 1970 to 31 August 1971.

Predoctoral Visiting Research Associates

Program in American History

MartTHA E, Doty. Popular images of the American Indian, with Dr. Wilcomb
Washburn and Mr. Richard Ahlborn, American Studies Program, from 1
January 197! to 30 June 1971.

WILLIAM B. FLoyp. An historical study of Thomas Sully, with Dr. Wilcomb
Washburn, American Studies Program, from 1 July 1970 to 31 June 1971.
RAyNnA D. GREEN. The Image of the Indian in the popular imagination, with
Dr. Wilcomb Washburn, American Studies Program, and Dr. Sam Stanley,

Center for the Study of Man, from 1 September 1970 to 31 August 1971.

YVONNE M. LANGE. Santos, the wooden household saints of Puerto Rico, with
Mr. Richard Ahlborn, American Studies Program, from 1 August 1970 to 31
July 1971.

PeTerR H. SmitH. The Great American Wheel Conspiracy: Hoopes Bros. and
Darlington, 1890-1920, with Mr. Robert Vogel, National Museum of History
and Technology, from 1 September 1970 to 31 August 1971.

ARTHUR TOWNSEND. Pattern and change in the material culture of Junction
City, Kansas, between 1888 and 1922, as seen through the life and lens of
Joseph Judd Pennell, photographer, with Dr. Wilcomb Washburn, American
Studies Program, from 1 September 1970 to 1 June 1971.

Program in Anthropology

IRAIDA VARGAS. Aboriginal cultural development in eastern Venezuela and their
relationships with the Lesser Antilles, with Dr. Clifford Evans, National Mu-
seum of Natural History, from 1 September 1970 to 31 August 1971.

Program in Environmental Sciences

CurRIsTEN E. WEMMER. Behavioral concomitants of morphology and the rela-
tionship of the form-function complex to social organization and habitat
utilization, with Dr. John Eisenberg, National Zoological Park, from 1 July
1970 to 31 July 1971.
232 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1971

Program in Evolutionary and Behavioral Biology, Tropical Zones

A. Ross KigsTER. Studies on the ecology and social behavior of Panamanian
Gecko, Gonatodes albogularis, with Dr. A. Stanley Rand, Smithsonian Tropi-
cal Research Institute, from 1 September 1970 to 31 August 1971.

Joun E. McCosker. Substrate preferences and comparative functional morphol-
ogy of eels of the family Ophichthidae, with Dr. Ira Rubinoff, Smithsonian
Tropical Research Institute, from 15 August 1970 to 14 August 1971.

WILLIAM B. RAmireEz. Ecological relationships and specificity between fig wasps
(Agaonidae) and Ficus, with Dr. Robert Dressler, Smithsonian Tropical Re-
search Institute, from 1 October 1970 to 30 September 1971.

Program in Evolutionary and Systematic Biology

Daviw R. Bunce. Study of late Ordovician and Silurian rocks and their con-
tained coral fauna in the eastern Great Basin, with Dr. William S. Oliver,
National Museum of Natural History, from 1 September 1970 to 31 August
nS 7e

ANNE C. CoHen. Geographic variation and sexual dimorphism in the squid
Loligo pealei, living from Canada to Columbia near the continental shores of
western north Atlantic, Gulf of Mexico, with Dr. Clyde Roper, National Mu-
seum of Natural History, from 15 August 1970 to 30 June 1971.

JEAN T. DEBELL. Electron microscopy of the body wall of Macracanthorhynchus
hirudinaceus (Acanthocephala) , with Dr. W. Duane Hope, National Museum
of Natural History, from 9 October 1969 to 9 October 1971.

THEODORE GARY GAUTIER. Cryptostome Bryoza from the Permian (Leonardian)
of the Glass Mountains, Texas, with Dr. Richard S. Boardman, National Mu-
seum of Natural History, from 1 July 1970 to 30 June 1971.

WALTER ScoTr Gray. Studies of Antarctic Gammaridea (Amphipoda), par-
ticularly the families Eusiridae, Calliopiidae, and Pleustidae, with Dr. J. L.
Barnard, National Museum of Natural History, from 15 February 1970 to
14 February 1971.

EckartT HAKANsson. The free-living Cheilostomata from the White Chalk of
Denmark, with Dr. Alan Cheetham, National Museum of Natural History,
from 15 October 1970 to 14 October 1971.

CATHERINE J. Kersy. A life history study of the polychaetous annelid, Sabella
microphthalma, with Dr. Meredith L. Jones, National Museum of Natural
History, from 1 August 1970 to 31 July 1971.

MiLosLav KovANnpA. Preparation of a monographic electronic data bank of
Campanula section Heterophylla, with Mr. Stanwyn Shetler, National Museum
of Natural History, from 1 July 1970 to 30 June 1971.

Jackson Lewis. A study of genus Calappa (Decapoda: Oxystomata) as repre-
sented by recent species in the United States National Museum collections and
by Miocene fossils from Florida, with Dr. Fenner A. Chace, Jr., National Mu-
seum of Natural History, from 1 September 1970 to 31 August 1971.

Program in History of Art and Music

SHELLEY FLETCHER. Pigment analysis of the American painting collection at
the National Collection of Fine Arts, with Mr. Charles Olin, NCFA Conserva-
tion Laboratory, from 1 July 1970 to 30 June 1971.

Ropert Hunter. Study of Stuart Davis in the 1930s, with Dr. Joshua C. Taylor,
APPENDIX 7. ACADEMIC APPOINTMENTS 233

National Collection of Fine Arts, from 1 September 1970 to 31 August 1971.

WILLIAM D. Morcan. Henry Vaughan, 1845-1917, Gothic revival architect, with
Dr. Joshua C. Taylor, National Collection of Fine Arts, from 15 January 1971
to 30 June 1971.

RicHArD N. Murray. A study of figurative mural painting, public and private
in the United States, 1890-1920, with Dr. Joshua C. Taylor, National Collec-
tion of Fine Arts, from 1 September 1970 to 31 August 1971.

PuyLis NortH. Max Weber paintings, 1905-1920, with Dr. Joshua C. Taylor,
National Collection of Fine Arts, from 1 January 1971 to 30 June 1971.

CurisTINE S. ScHLOss. Study of the 18th-century American primitive painters,
with Dr. Joshua C. Taylor, National Collection of Fine Arts, from 1 September
1970 to 30 June 1971.

Program in History of Science and Technology

STEPHEN Cooper. History of American science and technology with emphasis
on interrelationships between science and government, with Dr. Nathan Rein-
gold, Joseph Henry Papers, from 1 August 1970 to 31 July 1971.

BARBARA KAPLAN. The relevance of alchemical and hermetic ideas to 13th and
14th century medicine in western Europe, with Dr. Sami Hamarneh, National
Museum of History and Technology, from 1 September 1970 to 31 August 1971.

JouN RicHAarD KEerwoop. The editing of documentary sources in American His-
tory, with Dr. Nathan Reingold, Joseph Henry Papers, from 1 September
1970 to 30 June 1971.

SALLY G. KontsTepT. The American Association for the Advancement of Science,
1840 to 1860; the formation of a national scientific community, with Dr.
Nathan Reingold, Joseph Henry Papers, from 1 September 1970 to 31 August
1971.

Program in Museum Studies

Joan W. MisHarA. Conservation studies of metals, particularly metallic objects
of art, with Mr. Robert Organ, Conservation Analytical Laboratory, from |
July 1970 to 31 January 1971.

RICHARD Pruitr. Pictorial and bibliographical studies of Black American nota-
bles, with Dr. Sidney Kaplan, National Portrait Gallery, from 1 September
1970 to 1 July 1971.

Jon ALLEN SEcER. A long-range plan for the “third generation” of exhibits in
the National Museum of Natural History, with Mr. Nathaniel Dixon from 21
September 1970 to 20 September 1971.

ELAINE F. SLOAN. Studies of the collection development policies of the Smith-
sonian Institution Libraries, with Dr. Russell Shank, Smithsonian Institution
Libraries, from 1 September 1970 to 1 June 1971.

Rosert N. Works. Studies in museum administration and in the history of
American art, with Mr. Marvin Sadik, National Portrait Gallery, from 1
September 1970 to 31 August 1971.

Program in Physical Sciences

Duane F. Carson. Theoretical studies of non-gray model atmosphere for stars
of intermediate and late spectral types, with Dr. Owen J. Gingerich, Smith-
sonian Astrophysical Observatory, from 1 July 1970 to 30 January 1971.
234 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1971

Eric G. CuHIpMAN. Formation of spectral lines in the solar atmosphere, with
Dr. E. H. Avrett, Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory, from 1 July 1970 to
30 June 1971.

J. STEPHEN DueErR. Formation of plessite in metallic meteorites, with Dr. Charles
A. Lundquist, Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory, from 1 July 1970 to
30 June 1971.

JAMEs ELuioTr. Investigation of atmospheric fluorescence as a means of detecting
transient X-ray phenomena from cosmic sources, with Dr. G. G. Fazio, Smith-
sonian Astrophysical Observatory, from 1 September 1970 to 30 June 1971.

WILLIAM R. FoRMAN. Study of magnetic field structure in the Crab Nebula,
with Dr. R. B. Southworth, Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory, from 1
September 1970 to 30 June 1971.

JONATHAN E. GrinpLAy. Studies of high energy cosmic gamma rays and cosmic
X-rays and their respective air showers, with Dr. G. G. Fazio, Smithsonian
Astrophysical Observatory, from 1 July 1970 to 30 June 1971.

Rosert L. Kurucz. Studies in model atmospheres, with Dr. Wolfgang Kalkofen,
Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory, from 1 July 1970 to 30 June 1971.
Evia Leiwowitz. The emission spectrum of heavy ions in planetary nebulae,
with Dr. Leo Goldberg, Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory, from 1 July

1970 to 30 June 1971.

Doucias D. NEtson. Clay mineralogy and sedimentation of the Outer Banks,
North Carolina, with Dr. J. W. Pierce, National Museum of Natural History,
from 15 September 1970 to 14 September 1971.

Summer 1970 Graduate and Undergraduate Research
Participation Appointments

Names marked with an asterisk indicate students whose research was supported
through grants from the National Science Foundation’s Undergraduate Research
Participation Program (grants GY7622: Social Sciences and GY6056: Biological
Sciences) .

Program in American History

BETH MICHELE GrosvENoR, Mount Holyoke College. Research in political slo-
gans in 19th century presidential campaigns, with Dr. Wilcomb Washburn,
Office of American Studies.

KATHERINE Cora HANcOocK, Mills College. Studies of costumes in the Annapolis
area during the 18th century, with Mrs. Claudia Kidwell, National Museum
of History and Technology.

CATHERINE MARY SCHOLTEN, University of California at Berkeley. Bibliographic
and documentary studies, with Mr. Richard Ahlborn, National Museum of
History and Technology.

Program in Anthropology

*RICHARD BLAIR ALLEN, University of Illinois. Studies of Iranian and Afghan
archeological ceramics and preservation techniques of ethnological specimens,
with Mrs. Bethune Gibson and Dr. William Trousdale, National Museum of
Natural History.
APPENDIX 7. ACADEMIC APPOINTMENTS 235

*AnITA MARIE BARROW, University of Pittsburgh. A study of the social organi-
zation of the Southwestern Bantu, with Dr. Gordon Gibson, National Museum
of Natural History.

*JoHN THOMAS Bruer, University of Wisconsin. Studies of urban metaphysical
movements, with Dr. Irving Zaretsky, National Museum of Natural History.
*LIANNE Ippincs BurRKE, George Mason College of the University of Virginia.
Inventory of selected anthropological manuscripts, with Mrs. Margaret Blaker,

National Museum of Natural History.

*ROBERT SPENCER CorrucciNi. University of Colorado. Studies in paleopathology
and Paleoecology, with Dr. Donald Ortner, National Museum of Natural His-
tory.

*WENDY JOAN FRosH, Pitzer College. Studies relating to a dictionary of the
Tzotzil language, with Dr. Robert Laughlin, National Museum of Natural
History.

*LAuURA MAy KAPLAN, Rice University. Sex differentiation in human long bones,
with Dr. Lucile St. Hoyme, National Museum of Natural History.

* WILLIAM Grec Myers, Duke University, A study of the historical contributions
of the English to West Pakistan anthropology, with Dr. Eugene Knez, National
Museum of Natural History.

*Mary ALIcE NATION, University of Chicago. A study of the Japanese ceramic
collections in the National Museum of Natural History comparing American
and Japanese concepts of Japanese ceramic art 1875-1920, with Dr. Eugene
Knez, National Museum of Natural History.

*JANE WIERDSMA, Smith College. An historical study of Kiowa art, with Mr.
John Ewers, National Museum of Natural History.

Program in Environmental Sciences

JupitH Lynn BisHop, University of California at Davis. Literature research
concerning drug immobilization in exotic animals, with Dr. Clinton W. Gray,
National Zoological Park.

Program in Evolutionary and Systematic Biology

*SusANA Barros, George Washington University. Analysis of bamboos, with
Dr. Thomas Soderstrom, National Museum of Natural History.

GrEorGE JosEPpH Divoxy, Michigan State University. A study of the seasonal
distribution of marine birds, with Dr. George Watson, National Museum of
Natural History.

Mary BetH Moore, Michigan State University. Research and data gathering
for Flora North America project, with Mr. Stanwyn Shetler, National Museum
of Natural History.

*FRIEDA VIRGINIA OsBORNE, California State College. The taxonomy of Indo-
Pacific mollusks, with Dr. Joseph Rosewater, National Museum of Natural
History.

*Ricarpo REBOLLAR, DePaul University. A study of light intensity and quality,
temperature and pH effects on respiration and photosynthesis in corralines,
with Dr. Walter Adey, National Museum of Natural History.

Program in the History of Art and Music

DIANE LYNN ARKIN, University of Chicago. Studies in 19th century landscape
painting in America, with Dr. Joshua Taylor, National Collection of Fine Arts.

441-283 O-71 - 16
236 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1971

CATHERINE BETH Lippert, University of Michigan. Study of American painting
1900-1904, with Dr. Joshua Taylor, National Collection of Fine Arts.

Program in the History of Science and Technology

*Craic Buck ANDREWs, Claremont Men’s College. Studies of ship plans and
machinery, with Dr. Melvin Jackson, National Museum of History and Tech-
nology.

*JoHN FRANcIs Connors, Cincinnati Bible Seminary. Study of technical history
of World War I aircraft in the National Air and Space Museum collections,
with Mr. Louis Casey, National Air and Space Museum.

*Joan M. Hartow, Smith College. Studies in American spectroscopy in the
second half of the 19th century and French and British chemistry in the 18th
century, with Dr. Jon Eklund, National Museum of History and Technology.

*JoHN Tuomas KeEtty, Harvard University. Study of the History of Science and
technology in the War of Independence, with Mr. Silvio Bedini, National Mu-
seum of History and Technology.

*Howarp SANDER KocH, University of Miami. Study of cable telegraphy in the
19th century with Dr. Bernard Finn, National Museum of History and Tech-
nology.

*Jos—E M. Ropricuez, University of Miami. A study of maser and laser history,
with Dr. Bernard Finn, National Museum of History and Technology.

*Davip ALAN ROSENBERG, University of Chicago. Studies of the 1924 flight
around the world, with Dr. Richard K. Smith, National Air and Space Museum.

*FRANCES RUTH SCHARTENBERG, University of Pennsylvania. A study of the tech-
nological development of microscopes as related to the development of Dar-
winism, with Dr. Audrey Davis, National Museum of History and Technology.

*DIANE SENDERS, Antioch College. Analysis of natural dye stuffs using textiles
from Smithsonian collections, with Miss Rita Adrosko, National Museum of
History and Technology.

*JOANNE BETH SHORE, University of Pennsylvania. An historical study of early
engineering structures on the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad, with Mr. Robert
Vogel, National Museum of History and Technology.

*BArBARA Levy Simon, Goucher College. Research on the history of 19th cen-
tury science, with Mr. Richard Lytle, Smithsonian Archives.

Program in Museum Studies

JupirH ANN CALverT, University of California at Berkeley. Research and bibli-
ography on the stylistic origins of Shaker furniture, with Mr. Carl Alexander,
National Museum of History and Technology.

CAROLINE LEVERT Mastin, University of Delaware. Research participation and
studies of special exhibits, with Mr. Peter C. Welsh, U.S. National Museum.
CaroLtyn LoutsE RuscuH, Sweet Briar College. Studies relating to methods of
conservation of museum objects including documentation, with Mr. Robert

Organ, National Museum of History and Technology.
Appendix 8

PUBLIC AFFAIRS

News Releases Issued

Smithsonian To Present “Musick,” Pageantry of American Revolution 6 July 70

Textile Designer Will Be Accorded Retrospective Show 7 July 70
Model Rockets, Planes To Be Flown on National Mall, Sunday,

July 12 8 July 70
Daguerreotype Portraits of Webster, Clay and Houston Given to

Smithsonian 14 July 70
National Collection of Fine Arts Shifts Entrance Because of Subway 15 July 70
Smithsonian Computer Awaiting Your Questions about Reptiles 20 July 70
National Collection of Fine Arts To Hold “Artists Abroad”

Exhibition 29 July 70
Smithsonian Museum Schedules “Vibrating World” Exhibition 31 July 70
Indian Photographs on View at Smithsonian 3 Aug. 70
Space Art Show at Smithsonian 4 Aug. 70
Astronomical Art at Smithsonian 4 Aug. 70
Smithsonian Conducting Global Survey of Environmental

Monitoring System 4 Aug. 70
Historic Equipment, Fabrics Display in New Textile Hall 1] Aug. 70
Oil Painting of Apollo 11 Crew Being Given to Portrait Gallery 11 Aug. 70
Moon Rock Research Is Explained in Exhibit 12 Aug. 70
Smithsonian Exhibit To Mark Centennial of Gandhi’s Birth 13 Aug. 70
Global Photographic Show on Woman Scheduled 18 Aug. 70
A Computerized Data Bank on Plants Is Planned 19 Aug. 70
Freer Sculptures from India Described in New Volume 1 Sept. 70
Free Jazz/Gospel/Soul Music Festival Scheduled at Douglass Home

September 12-13 1 Sept. 70
“Deep-Ocean”’ Fossils Back Continental Drift Theory 1 Sept. 70
Smithsonian Seeks Volunteers To Guide School Groups 1 Sept. 70
“Curtain Raiser’—A Most Unusual Benefit Oct. 2 1 Sept. 70
Smithsonian, Left Bank Society Plan Series of 7 Jazz Concerts 11 Sept. 70
Smithsonian Display of Paper Money Documents South Carolina’s

History 15 Sept. 70
Smithsonian To Show Art of H. Lyman Sayen 16 Sept. 70
Wilson Center Sets Deadline for Fellowship Applications 16 Sept. 70
Smithsonian, Left Bank Society Sponsor Jazz Quartet Concert 21 Sept. 70
Lithographs Depict Romantic View of 19th Century Women 21 Sept. 70

“Pinocchio” To Open September 30 at Smithsonian Puppet Theatre 21 Sept. 7
Freer Lectures To Begin With Talk on Indian Art 22 Sept. 70

Zoi
238 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1971

Dr. Roy Strong To Speak at National Portrait Gallery

Smithsonian Sales Exhibit To Feature Georgia Crafts

A Smithsonian Entomologist Probes Origins of South Pacific’s
Insects

NCFA To Present Concert of Music by Erik Satie

Smithsonian To Exhibit Works by Tapio Wirkkala

Antique Firearms Given to Smithsonian

Talents of Lorton Reformatory Inmates Going on Display at
Anacostia Museum

NCFA To Show Paintings of William Henry Holmes

Dizzy Gillespie Quintet To Give Concert Oct. 17

Wilson Center To Welcome First Fellows Oct. 19

Singer Betty Carter, Donald Byrd Ensemble Will Give Smithsonian
Concert Oct. 31

National Portrait Gallery Exhibition Will Trace Life of John
Quincy Adams

Division of Performing Arts To Sponsor Concert Series

Smithsonian Publishes First Unified Directory of World’s
Environmental Monitoring Systems

Exotic Fish Imports Endanger Environment

Smithsonian Museum Shops Offering Two Bonestell Space Prints
for Sale

Ford Gives $95,000 Grant To Woodrow Wilson Fellow

Space Flight Recordings Presented To Smithsonian

Kathakali Dance Theater To Appear at Smithsonian

Smithsonian To Exhibit Photos by David Plowden

Statement by S. Dillon Ripley, Secretary of the Smithsonian
Institution, at Announcement of Joint Peace Corps-Smithsonian
Environmental Program, Oct. 27, 1970

Museum Shops Offering Show, Sale of Contemporary Jewelry

Alarius Ensemble Will Open Smithsonian Concert Season

Smithsonian To Honor Cartoonist Rube Goldberg With Special Show

Smithsonian Will Convene Symposium on Cultural Styles and
Social Identity

Dr. Cyril Smith To Speak on Metallurgy and History

Yvonne Rainer Dance Troupe To Perform at Smithsonian

Rudolf Kelterborn To Lecture on Contemporary Swiss Music

Openings of Christmas Sales-Exhibitions at Museum Shops of
Smithsonian Institution

Left Bank Jazz Society, Smithsonian To Present Charles Tolliver
Concert

Study Program for Scholars Set up by National Collection of
Fine Arts

Hubel Appointed Director of Smithsonian Press

Rare Collection of Earthenware To Go on Display November 13

Dr. Scanlon To Give Lecture on Chinese Pottery in Egypt

Dutch Officer To Give Lecture on Aviation Archaeology Project

Note To Editors—Rube Goldberg Press Preview

Rising Ethnic Consciousness Alters “Melting Pot’ Concept

Historian Cites Role of “Myths” in Nation’s Cultural Development

22 Sept.
23 Sept.

24 Sept.
24 Sept.
29 Sept.
30 Sept.

30 Sept.
1 Oct.
6 Oct.
7 Oct.

10 Oct.

14 Oct.
15 Oct.

16 Oct.
19 Oct.

19 Oct.
19 Oct.
21 Oct.
21 Oct.
22 Oct.

26 Oct.
28 Oct.
29 Oct.
30 Oct.

30 Oct.
31 Oct.
3 Nov.
3 Nov.

4 Nov.
5 Nov.

6 Nov.
6 Nov.
9 Nov.
9 Nov.
10 Nov.
12 Nov.
13 Nov.
13 Nov.

70
70

70
70
70
70

70
70
70
70

70

70
70
APPENDIX 8. PUBLIC AFFAIRS

Freddie Hubbard Quintet Will Appear November 31

National Collection of Fine Arts To Show 83 Works by 19th
Century Landscape Painter

Dr. Pennington To Demonstrate Ornamentation of Messiah Solos

Left Bank To Present Trumpeter Lee Morgan

Lewis Mumford Will Receive Smithsonian’s Hodgkins Medal

NCFA Will Show 65 Drawings and Sculptures by Paul Manship

National Portrait Gallery Acquires Rare Painting of President
Monroe

Smithsonian Will Present “The Electric Stereopticon”

Smithsonian, Left Bank Jazz Society Will Present Last Poets
at Howard

Dr. Harold P. Stern Named Director of Freer Gallery

Apollo 12 “Atomic Battery’”” To Be Given to Smithsonian

Wilson Center Sets Deadline for Fellowship Applications

Romaine Brooks: “Thief of Souls”

Three Distinguished Scholars Named Wilson Center Fellows

Two Famous Planes Exhibited at Smithsonian

Apollo 11 Spacecraft on View on the Mall

Smithsonian To Show Pakistani Prints

Smithsonian Offers Puppet Theatre for Washington Area
Performances

Memorial Fund To Be Established at National Museum of
Natural History

Challinor Named Smithsonian Deputy Assistant Secretary

Joanna Featherstone To Present Program of Afro-American Poetry

Smithsonian Commissions Submersible Oceanographic Vessel

Experts To Talk on Print Collecting at National Collection of
Fine Arts

Smithsonian Will Exhibit “100th Street’? Photo Show

Teaching Exhibit on Naturalist John Muir is Scheduled

Portraits by 18th Century Painter To Be Shown by Smithsonian
Museum

Wilkinson To Lecture at Freer on Drinking Vessels of Persia

Oceanography at the Smithsonian

J. Seward Johnson—Biography

I. Eugene Wallen—Biography

Edwin A. Link—Biography

Smithsonian Will Present Sanasardo Dance Company

Personnel Chief, Associate Appointed at Smithsonian

Smithsonian Exhibits Art Inspired by Space Program

Anacostia Exhibit Traces Move “. . . Toward Freedom”

“The First Two Years”: A Photographic Impression of the
Presidency

Environmental Law Conference Will Be Held at Smithsonian

Paintings of John Henry Legend on Display at Smithsonian Museum

Smithsonian To Present Second “Music from Marlboro” Concert

National Collection of Fine Arts Will Show Venice Biennale Prints

Smithsonian Gives First Maury Medal for Ocean Science to Link,
Johnson

239

16 Nov.

16 Nov.
16 Nov.
17 Nov.
19 Nov.
23 Nov.

25 Nov.
1 Dec.

1 Dec.
2 Dec.
3 Dec.
4 Dec.
VmeDec
9 Dec.
Dec
Hie Dec
15 Dec.

15 Dec.

15 Dec.
18 Dec.
21 Dec.
21 Dec.

22 Dec.
23 Dec.
23 Dec.

23 Dec.
23 Dec.
28 Dec.
28 Dec.
28 Dec.
28 Dec.
28 Dec.
7 Jan.
11 Jan.
1] Jan.

12 Jan.
12 Jan.
13 Jan.
15 Jan.
21 Jan.

21 Jan.

70

70
70
70
70
70

70
70

70
70
70
70
70
70
70
70
70

70

70
70
70
70

70
70
70

70
70
70
70
70
70
70
71
71
71

71
71
71
71
71

71
240 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1971

National Portrait Gallery Exhibition Will Pay Homage to Negro
History Week

Mayor Washington To Visit Portrait Gallery

Smithsonian Scientists Publish Mexican Meteorite Study Results

NCFA To Present Dramatic Reading Feb. 27

Inventory of American Paintings Begins

Marine Biology Lectures To Be Held at Smithsonian

Freer Lecturer To Discuss Work of Japanese Painter

American Impressionist Painters Shown in New Galleries at
National Collection

NCFA To Show Portraits by “Thief of Souls”

Smithsonian Sets Up Program To Promote Indian Awareness

Smithsonian Museums Add Evening Hours

Five Soloists To Present Finale of “Music from Marlboro” Series

Michael Collins, Apollo Astronaut, Will Direct Air and Space
Museum

Michael Collins—Biography

National Air and Space Museum—Background Material

Puppet Theatre To Reopen March 24 at Smithsonian

Music from Marlboro Artists Will Make Final Washington
Appearance

Ohio, Northwest Indians, Labor To Be Featured at Smithsonian’s
5th Annual Folklife Festival

Kite Fliers Invited To Compete in Contest in Washington April 10

Frans Brueggen To Perform at Smithsonian March 15

Freer Director To Lecture on Ming Porcelain March 16

New Art Show Offers Inside View of Body

New Music Choral Ensemble III Will Perform at Smithsonian

D.C. Grade School Art To Be Shown at NCFA

Smithsonian Commissions Architects To Design National Zoo
Master Plan

Lecture Series at National Collection To Trace Roots of Modern
American Art

In Sight and Sound, Smithsonian Portrays Development of
Machines That Make Music

Contemporary West Coast Graphics To Be Shown at Smithsonian
Museums

Low Cost Furniture To Be Exhibited at National Collection of
Fine Arts

Archaeologist Iris Love To Give Lecture at Smithsonian April 2

Freer Galley Opens Two Special Exhibitions

Lecture at Freer To Focus on Chinese Landscape Painting

Exhibit of Arms and Armor of Japan Opens at Smithsonian

John Marin Centennial Exhibition To Be Shown by Smithsonian
Museum

National Portrait Gallery Exhibition To Honor Unknown 18th
Century Artist

Children’s Day: An Art Happening at National Collection of
Fine Arts

29 Jan.
29 Jan.
2 Feb.
2 Feb.
8 Feb.
9 Feb.
10 Feb.

10 Feb.
12 Feb.
16 Feb.
16 Feb.
17 Feb.

19 Feb.
19 Feb.
19 Feb.
22 Feb.

22 Feb.

23 Feb.
1 Mar.
5 Mar.
8 Mar.
8 Mar.
9 Mar.
15 Mar.

15 Mar.
17 Mar.
19 Mar.
19 Mar.
22 Mar.
23 Mar.
24 Mar.

24 Mar.
26 Mar.

30 Mar.
31 Mar.

1 Apr.
APPENDIX 8. PUBLIC AFFAIRS

Smithsonian Announces Evening Hours for Museum of History
and Technology

Museum of Natural History Opens Section of Physical Geology Hall

Special Exhibit Shows Faces of D.C. Children

Anacostia Museum, D.C. Art Group Present 3rd Annual Exhibit

Wilson Center Sets May 1 Deadline for Applications

Smithsonian Will Produce Festival of American Folklore in
Montreal

Seventh Annual Link Lecture To Be Held at Smithsonian

Contemporary Lebanese Paintings Will Be Exhibited in Washington

NCFA Announces Schedule of Exhibitions and Special Events

N.J. Firm Presents Historic Dividing Engines to Museum

High School Graphics To Be Exhibited at NCFA

Texas-Size Project Yields Millions of Fossil Shells from Tons of Rock

Illustrated Lecture on American Art Rescheduled by National
Collection

Two Story Lunar Module To Go on Exhibition at Smithsonian

Iron Axes Made Centuries Before China’s Iron Age Were Fabricated
from Meteorite, Experts Find

Children’s Day at NCFA To Feature Indians, Puppets, Craftsmen,
Do-It-Yourself Art

Smithsonian To Feature Work of Artisans Continuing American
Handcraft Tradition

Peace Corps Poster Contest Entries To Be Shown at Smithsonian
May 8-16

GE Gives Household Appliances to Smithsonian History Museum

Ted Mack To Lecture on Broadcasting May 13 at Smithsonian
History Museum

Smithsonian Puppet Theatre To Reopen for Summer May 22

Smithsonian Museum To Display Mexican Stamps by U.S. Artist

Special Exhibition To Commemorate 100 Years of Microfilm
Technology

Government Information, the Media and the Public

National Portrait Gallery Extends Benbridge Exhibition

Center for the Study of Man To Hold Population Meetings

NCFA To Exhibit Drawings from Collection of John Davis Hatch

National Portrait Gallery Exhibition Will Salute Kennedy Center
Inaugural

National Portrait Gallery Will Honor Mary McLeod Bethune

Special Exhibition Traces History of Plastic Surgery

Wilson Center To Sponsor Foreign Policy Dialogue

Folk Skills of American Labor Will Be Featured at Annual
Smithsonian Festival on Mall July 1-5

Two New Smithsonian Museums Are an Undiscovered Resource

New Children’s Gallery at National Collection “A Looking,
Dreaming, Thinking, Imagining Place”

Report Analyzes New State Approaches to Environment

Smithsonian Puppet Theatre Open Through Labor Day, Adopting
Summer Schedule

24

27

241

Apr.
Apr.
Apr.
Apr.
Apr.

Apr.
Apr.
Apr.
Apr.
Apr.
Apr.
Apr.

Apr.
Apr.

Apr.
May
May

May
May

May
May
May

May
May
May
May
May

May
May
May
May

May
May

May
May

May
242 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1971

Annual Smithsonian Boomerang Competition Scheduled for June 5

on Monument Grounds 28 May 71
Summer Film Series at National Collection To Focus on Eight

Modern American Artists 4 June 71
Smithsonian’s Science Hotline Issues Annual Report for 1970 4 June 71
Campbell Museum Collection Shows Tureens as Fine Art 7 June 71
Smithsonian To Present Talk on Mexican Organs 7 June 71
Movies by Teenagers From D.C. Area Will Be Screened at Museum

Festival 7 June 71
Mack McCormick Appointed Director of Smithsonian’s Festival of

American Folklife in Montreal, Canada 8 June 71

Portrait Gallery Plans Exhibition on “Black Sounds of the Twenties” 9 June 71
Richard Lahey To Talk at National Collection on the Noted

American Artists He Has Known 9 June 71
Bust of Labor Leader John L. Lewis Will Be Given to Portrait

Gallery 10 June 71
423-Carat Logan Sapphire Will Be Unveiled June 22 10 June 71
First Synthetic Gem-Quality Diamonds Will Be Given to

Smithsonian June 17 10 June 71
Dancers, Drummers, and Actors To Honor Black Educator

In Courtyard Festival at National Portrait Gallery 14 June 71
July 4 Exhibit at Smithsonian Will Feature Marquetry Flags 14 June 71
Oregon Arts Administrator Appointed Chief of Smithsonian

Traveling Exhibition Service 15 June 71
Public Invited to Art Show at Swiss Embassy June 25-28 16 June 71
NASM To Receive Painting From Spanish Ambassador 17 June 71
Open House Scheduled at National Collection 17 June 71
Indians of Northwest To Demonstrate Traditional Culture at

Smithsonian Institution Folklife Festival July 1—5 18 June 71
Unknown Art Masterpieces Will Be Unveiled in National Collection

of Fine Arts Show 21 June 71
Puerto Rican Dance Company To Appear at Folk Festival 23 June 71
Concerts Set for Smithsonian’s Museum of History and Technology 23 June 71
Sol Tax Named To Direct Center for Study of Man 24 June 71
Concert Set for Smithsonian’s Museum of History and Technology 25 June 71
Smithsonian Scientist Named To Link Foundation Trustees 2a junewal

“Radio Smithsonian” Programs

JULY 1970

“Jacquard Mechanism and Nineteenth Century Jacquard Woven Coverlets.”
“India Chintz.”

“Hamilton College Choir and Brass Choir.”
“Division of Musical Instruments Record” (two programs).

AUGUST 1970

“Recital of Twentieth Century Piano Music by Pierre Huybregts.”
“The Princeton Chamber Orchestra.”
APPENDIX 8. PUBLIC AFFAIRS 943,

“Tarr and Kent Concert.”
“The 1970 American Folklife Festival” (two programs).

SEPTEMBER 1970

“Conversation with Joseph H. Hirshhorn and Abram Lerner,” Director of the
Joseph H. Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden.

Interviews: Roy Strong, Director of the National Portrait Gallery, London; Dr.
Sidney R. Galler, Assistant Secretary for Science, Smithsonian Institution.

Benjamin Ruhe, Press Officer: “Boomerangs—It All Comes Back to Me Now”;
Paul Garber, Air and Space Historian: “The Art of Kites.”

Dr. J. Lawrence Angel, Physical Anthropologist: “Working With Prehistoric
Remains and Sleuthing for the FBI’; Paul V. Gardner, Curator of Ceramics:
“Collectables.”

OCTOBER 1970

Erwin Swann: “Thomas Nast: Influential Political Cartoonist or Artist?’”’; Rob-
ert M. Vogel, Curator of Mechanical Engineering: “Our Inventive Past.”

His Excellency Lakshmi Jha, the Ambassador of India: “Gandhi.”

Lucy Kavaler, author of ‘Freezing Point”: “She Ventured in the Cold”; Dr.
Gordon Gibson, Curator of Old World Anthropology: “Scientific Safari.”

Dr. Lee Talbot, of the President’s Council on Environmental Quality: “Environ-
ment: What Are You Doing?”’; Dr. Joshua Taylor, Director of the National
Collection of Fine Arts: “What Have We Created?”

NOVEMBER 1970

“The Music of Erik Satie.”

Benjamin Read, Director, Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars:
“A Living Memorial’; Dr. Ray Smith: “A Temple for the Goddess Nefertiti.

“Chamber Music,” by the U.S. Air Force Ensemble.

“Our Future Environment: Will We Have One?” (two programs selected from
the General Assembly of the International Union of Biological Sciences).

DECEMBER 1970

Rube Goldberg: “Do It the Hard Way!”

“Concert of Baroque Music.” Alarius Ensemble of Brussels.

“Early Christmas Music,” with James Weaver, Concert Director for the Smith-
sonian Division of Musical Instruments.

“Do Snakes Have Souls?” with Dr. James Peters, Curator of the Division of Rep-
tiles and Amphibians; “Reclaiming World War II Planes Downed in Nether-
lands Waters,” Lt. Col. A. P. DeJong, Director of Information for the Royal
Netherlands Air Force.

JANUARY 1971

“The Jazz Scene” (three programs). Julian Euell, former bassist, sociologist, and
now Special Assistant for Public Service at the Smithsonian, and Dr. Donald
Byrd, noted jazz trumpeter, composer, and Chairman of the Department of
Jazz Studies at Howard University, in a musicated conversation about jazz
and jazzmen.
244 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1971

“Bugging the Bugs,’ Dr. Barnard Burks, Research Entomologist in the Systematic
Entomology Laboratory; “Curtain Going Up,” William Blair, General Director
of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts.

“Talking to the Animals,” Warren Iliff, Special Assistant for the Director, Na-
tional Zoological Park; “Commodore Perry: East to the Rising Sun,” Roger
Pineau, Managing Editor of the Smithsonian Press.

FEBRUARY 1971

“The Alarius Ensemble of Brussels,’ a concert ranging from contemporary to
baroque music presented at the Smithsonian.

“A Collection of Millions?”, Dr. Richard S$. Cowan, Director of the National
Museum of Natural History; “You Are More Attractive With a Flat Head!,”
Dr. T. Dale Stewart, Senior Physical Anthropologist.

“Council on Worms,” Dr. Meredith L. Jones, Curator of the Division of Worms;
“Scientists at Sea,” Dr. I. Eugene Wallen, Director of the Office of Environ-
mental Sciences.

“Indians.” A look at a major area of Smithsonian scholarship, the American
Indian, his culture, and some of his problems today.

MARCH 1971

“Indians,” Part II.

“What If the Pacific Flows Into the Atlantic?,’” Dr. Ira Rubinoff, Assistant
Director for Marine Biology, Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute; “The
Unicorn Is Alive and Well, Living in Washington (also Kansas City, London
and Mars),” Dr. John White, author and specialist in mythical animals.

“The Birds and the Bees.” A program in honor of the coming of spring.

“The American Museum,” Ian McCallum, Director of the American Museum in
Britain; “I’ll Give You a Dollar for That Penny,” Dr. and Mrs. Clain-Stefanelli,
Curators of Numismatics.

APRIL 1971

“American Bandsman.” Selected music of John Philip Sousa with discussion by
James Weaver, Concert Director, Division of Musical Instruments.

“Toward a Lasting Peace.’ President Richard M. Nixon and Senator Hubert H.
Humphrey speaking at the dedication of the Woodrow Wilson International
Center for Scholars.

“Global Crusade.” Discussion of a joint international environment program with
Robert K. Poole, Director, Environmental Programs, Peace Corps, and Dr.
Dale W. Jenkins, Director, Ecology Program, Smithsonian Office of Environ-
mental Sciences.

“Thief of Souls.” A Discussion of the art of Romaine Brooks with art student
Gerald Adelman; “Henry Moore,’ a conversation with the great British
sculptor.

MAY 1971

“Concert” by Frans Brueggen, recorder virtuoso, assisted by James Weaver,
Smithsonian Concert Director, on the harpsichord, playing works by Corelli
and Loeillet.
APPENDIX 8. PUBLIC AFFAIRS 245

“Who First Called it Jade?” A visit with Senator Hugh Scott of Pennsylvania.

“Know Thyself.” Dr. Raymond Stites, formerly with the National Gallery of
Art, discusses the subject of his recent book The Sublimations of Leonardo da
Vinci; Derek Rogers, Keeper of Art at the Brighton Pavilion, “Who Would
Have Thought of an Oriental Pavilion in England?”

“Sing While You Labor!” Tapes and talks on American work songs with Archie
Green, Institute of Labor and Industrial Relations.

“Do You Know About the Tinamu Bird?’’ Discussion with Dr. Sam Weeks,
Curator of Birds at the National Zoological Park; “Are Plastic Spoons Prog-
ress?” Dr. Eugene Knez, Old World Anthropology Department, National Mu-
seum of Natural History, revisits a Korean village.

“Folk Concert.” Margaret MacArthur, folk singer and song collector from Ver-
mont, with self-accompaniment on the dulcimer and the folk harp.

“Concert.” Bach and Handel Music, presented by the United States Air Force
String Orchestra.

“Music Machines—American Style” (two programs). A survey of popular styles
in American music from barrel organs and player pianos to the most up-to-
date high fidelity equipment.

JUNE 1971

“Folk Concert.” Margaret MacArthur, folk singer and song collector from Ver-
mont, with self-accompaniment on the dulcimer and the folk harp.

“Concert.” The United States Air Force String Orchestra, in concert at the
Smithsonian, playing works by Bach and Handel.

“Music Machines, American Style, Part I.” A look at American music machines,
from barrel organs and player pianos to the most up-to-date stereo equipment.

“Music Machines, American Style, Part II.”
Appendix 9

SMITHSONIAN EXHIBITS

SPECIAL EXHIBITS

History and Technology Building

American Holidays—
Discovery Day
Founders’ Day
Fourth of July
Labor Day
Antique Toys
Automat
Benjamin Wright
Campbell Museum Collection
Civil Engineering
Cyrus Field
Do It the Hard Way
Embryology
George Washington Carver
Ghandi Exhibit

Graphic Arts

Jacquard Loom

Leon Collection

Mexican Stamps

Mr. Zip

Music Machines—American Style
Nixon Photographs

Objects of the Month

Perry Exhibit

Plastic Surgery

Poetry of the Body

South Carolina Currency
Stephen Whealton

Women, Cameras, and Images (V)

Natural History Building

Drake Birds

Fiberglass Show

Flora of North America
Indian Images

Japanese Armor
Moon Rock
OEP Posters
Reptiles’ Photos

National Air and Space Museum

Aerial Explorations
Apollo 14

Early Bird

NASA Benefit

246

NASM Art Exhibit

Robert McCall Art Exhibit

Space Art
APPENDIX 9. SMITHSONIAN EXHIBITS 947

Arts and Industries Building

Art Protis Genteel Female

Bruce Davidson’s Photos The Hand of Man in America
Dorothy Liebes Vibrating World

Finnish Design Woman

Anacostia Neighborhood Museum

Black Patriots

Jewish Museum, New York

Software

Traveling Exhibit

Energy Conversion

PERMANENT EXHIBITIONS

History and Technology Building

American Heroes Iron and Steel
Armed Forces Chronology (Navy) Maritime History
Autos and Coaches Textiles

Ceramics Underwater History
Electricity

Natural History Building

Age of Mammals (Quaternary) Native Peoples of the Americas
Archeology Physical Geology

Dinosaurs Life in the Sea

Gems Tiger

National Air and Space Museum

Air and Space Building
Beech Aircraft
Goddard Exhibit

U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1971 O—441—283
bs ore = aia .

y 7 hi
ae = 6s = , _ 7 a
| wits iA-en trian! ste! Grins rd 7
a a

> ‘
laugy? Weis ay |

a caw Ww,
é ‘ » Hee in ivten 2 3 on a" 7 tos 5

( ’ : ni >
S tw? vy ’ o ° ‘.
i,
1?
!
<a
4
sty
q
t
he
Fat Piel)
i y P

mi

Oke hs

| en
x a
‘
a ‘a |
Mes i

re

\ i
Mae us aaa
Ae eG Gt Hak YO
yi

f «
. f
1 Pe a
Tie uN Pa T. 4
ae RN Ane
WA) | ee
“t

yy

Kise,
if

eS si

meng yer,
+ ees

Seca
aes

tree wR
€

;
SS EE
ae =

Te: Client
SESE eo ory = |
PEAS Way pel

1c 9 2 & * &@ &@ @ @é& @ @ 8 &'@ & ea * A « ~ ia ga gd es tn eS
; ~ ea". : , ee & e it Oe &
_& A? t 9 A, te 4

oa
, ze
Pd cy. om

@
a) rx )
sn
‘4. ‘,
4,

rs ; & cy _# :
C a”,

me ae oF ee
vg
aa

ay

—o ~- a —" os te
a rx ~ ae

an
eh sie

;

‘a's
C4
-

i a'e%s
ae) ae

ie

8 ee
8 8 € ee @ |
~~) atete * 8 @ e € §
eee eure e
a” i! aes a & @ §

a4

a
aD ae

ee ee
ee
BS.

-

a ae
A “ 5 . ae ge &
cain:

%

“. 4 sietals “4, ia

fatetete! | ate! ’ i un ie if A A *e A. ue *

§ a a‘ r 4
i bs £68 & &

, us €@ a", a’ 8 at « oe titetetatet en ‘ A oe fe

Retatatetal e848 8 a*e'e oa 4 8 «6 ‘a ae
ee

a*e“e° a"
aes Pe 5" ,' ae a atta" a La ofa! ‘8 A, 4 a 4" cx

%
re ee a # ht
‘ otek ate tate! 4, “ ‘ a8 se 8 a's 444 48 ‘ee @
‘
&

Watatet tates o nae
ie sn
oO ek)

fete ag ‘crate *,'
4 ‘ns a€¢ a's" _*, gia”

¢ “ fy a
#a 8 4,
a 6

‘
a aa
a
ee st,
ce ‘, fy
oe

q
e
©
_

 &
‘—

ee ae
*,
vs
*
&
a” «
_
<2

ae ns

— . %

. eae @ as, cad a f ctglgls! aes
(9a 8 48 4 8'¢ af A ‘at 4 ie 488 ¢ ¢@
Watetatatetate's aa’ e'e'e agen ata’ « velate eae
GOeaegge we _# ‘. LJ at" 48 "4 ‘4 ue 8 :
eee @ & “4 aaa 488 st!
Natetettatatetals af etate® a's! Pick @ ae €
OUR RO @«@ tetatetate ¢ *¢ atatg tg" eaett ae
i F 4] ® |
Aa tc! tele aeetatetettttetet g 8 c
es s'g4, atatateate a cae’ vecatetatese’s a anne es eee
eats La es on Hetghatate’s eee
PO . ‘ x at ae s ‘ o ee $e

© ¢4 8% aa ee a ae au is "4 *," e é ‘ x

* Pa ig . Pa ' sg 4 ~ e a 3 *& is hs . af 7 & € $ ¢ o wate ‘
ee be Op it cx s € a*, ef * 9»
ee ee ut : a #@¢@ @ Ps . on

eee EE

3%. | eta ietete ates é weit *¢ © eee . ana
oo €#e2 a2 i e ¢€ e a
44 @& Sa a alta ¥ AA A

i 4g : f nant é 4! eee
ae - -' = — 7 7 um, CY = = - 4
, & * 4 2 ; e %  @ “€ & 2. § baad € t e a
helen. ,", i. ” as eu aie * piven, . * & sa 2 2 € @ ee i al i

