ibn

! ) t
£ ¥ ‘
;
| ;
}
; I
t ,
}
I
‘ }
}
)
} ora
j i } | 7
4 } xh
} } +} 4
| 1.
. 7
}
} i }

b| } } \
} 4 }

4 ‘ ‘ ; f
eS is

ys
oa

aE
Bey Y

=

s
, ce

ve

St
mR

e *

* =

met?

)

i j I '
; }

| ,

5

}
i

i } t
1

} t }
} ]

a4 med }
i

*) es th

oe — , ~

OREGON
RULE

%
a a
, ‘&
4 »
et x
¥ i
® .

Dustin

'

}
»

tome

aot

ae

eh

on

Peet

i
.
a
wa

i
Son aa naa SE

INSTITUTION NOILALILSNI NVINOSHLINS S31YVYEIT_ LIBRARIES

\ \

* -

TION NOILOALILSNI NVINOSHLIWS S3IuVYUSIT LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILNLILSNI NVINOSHLIW

INSTITUTIO!
INSTITUTIO!
saluvual
INSTITUTIO

:

N

\
SIIUVUEI
INSTITUTIO

Jd11 LIBRARIES SMITHSONIA

Ga
NVINOSHLINS S3IYVUE!
LY
NVINOSHLINS SZIUVUal

SMITHSONIAN
tLe
Gs
ie
NVINOSHLIWS
ENG
aS
SMITHSONIAN

SMITHSONIAN
We:
NVINOSHLIWS
KE
LN
SMITHSONIAN

wo = Ww = w = oP) =
Ww Zz SY y wi 2 WwW a Ww 2
= GX 2 g 2S og - @
< SWS EF : iP 3 F =
fea = a. oc S rae “Ue, S cc S
2 3 ue S a date S = 5 c
ak = as = ad .
JG 17 LIBRARIES” SMITHSONIAN” INSTITUTION | NOLLNLILSNINVINOSHLINS S31 ¥VYEIT LIBRARIES  SMITHSONIA
— Yo, wo =< s — o = 7
= uae Gin, x = Neg 5 x E (eth,
S) a Js =) . a) =
> & LL F LAWS E > © OL
Oo z o Zz sale D =

TION NOILNLILSNI NVINOSHLINS SSIYVUSIT LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILQLILSNI_ NVINOSHLIV

NVINOSHLINS S3tuVvyal

n me a2 = =. -« w a

gt. : : z 2 a. i &,:
% i Lei Di Oe: s Ny 93:
NS rs} Vig i ae fe) or T WINE S Vig os a
Weis E Zi iS = NY 2,77 } =
a : : 2 zs 8 5
JAN LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION | NVINOSHLINS SSIYVUEIT_LIBRARIES SMITHSONIA

z ui ty, Zz WwW 2 uw =

g = Yu, % “ as @

a < jae < c ‘SS al

Fa ne GY for S eg a. COS =

fe) a ro) = js) as re)

2 ea Sg = : S

JTION NOILALILSNI NVINOSHLINS S3IYVYSIT LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILNLILSNI NVINOSHLIIA

SAIUVYUGIT LIBRARI

saluvadgi
INSTITUTION
INSTITUTION

Saiuvudlt
INSTITUTION

INSTITUTION

YI LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILMLILSNI NVINOSHLINS S31YVYGIT_LIBRARIES SMITHSONIA

NVINOSHLINS SZIYVUEIT_ LIBRARIES

Z 2 = 2 z 2 ZS
yok Qs = Ea yt fy Z = wl fy & NS
4p 5 WS = ro} = ro) Se SY tp D CK
J Re F z so Y GGG 2X
po EY 2 E 2 Uy «= 2 Gay = SS
Fee 5 ee: = Bia
UTION NOILNLILSNI NVINOSHLIWS LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILOLILSNI
rf 2 & w 2 2 Z us z
2 2 WX = = =. oy fp > = =
< as AK Nee A <vf Le =A < =
cc S WN oe = a Yi Cc x c
a = YS mo = a Ge, mL o =
= ro) =e ro) = Z Oo = Oo
=) 2 ee | 2 <aJ Zz | 2 bi
Udit LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILOLILSNI NVINOSHLINS S3I14YVYaIT LIBRARIES SMITHSONI/
iz zs ; — 5 bate = - z
oh fo) 4 = 2) = oO = ro) BH
= 5 53 5 = 5 2 5 ZZ
> = i D> = > = = = y
E : E E > = Yj
2 23 2 : 2 = = = Sh
m n* m Ls m & m n* ;
o = n 2 7) = 4h z
EN OVIOEIESNE NVINOSHIINS SSIUVEEIT LIBRARIES | INSTITUTION NOILALILSNI  NVINOSHLIL
z z z Wy Sie z a g z
= = = Lily, Zz é = > & = S
\ 5 2 5 fefia NN: S WN: 3
WS 8 oe 8 Oli 2 SNS Z WN =
QT 2. = 2. Sy oN z E Ww) 2: E
~ = 2 ee So, =
aS =
SEISEIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION | NOILNLILSNI_NVINOSHLINS Saluvasia LIBRARIES SMITHSONIA
Tur m JANG Ww Z ONG uw MSUTOD A ~& Lu <Gill> = = oe yy,
m2 Cor - Gy. ° KE = KMS Av = LMR 2 LD ' |S
saluvuat
INSTITUTIO
S S3IUVUEI
INSTITUTIO
INSTITUTIO
sa1uvual
INSTITUTIO

ION NOILNLILSNI_ NVINOSHLINS S3iYVHYSIT_LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILNLILSNI NYINOSHLIWS

L
¥/,
OF fer
NVINOSHLINS S31uvual

— oe
g Z = = -§ z Z 3
= z a “Zz Ss = | =
5 2 By 2 We 3 & 3
8 = z Es NS cS 2 =
g a 2 a . z g a
: : an
J17_ LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILALILSNI_ NVINOSHLIWS _LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN
= a. ot Jy a = AS Ps = « tf fy
= roe Wig, = a = NN a = « ZZ
5 a ‘YZ 3 (3) S . faa) 5 fea) Vp)
2 = = ey = Seer Zz i
ON | NOILALILSNI NVINOSHLINS [S318VYS1T LIBRARI ES_ SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION z NOLLALILSN!~NVINOSHLIWS
S) ay ee re) = ° ee, sa 3 = Ss
= o ‘ — ow = o = ow :
= 2 LY as x E Ea s a WS
E 5 WHEE = e ope E > eS
= 2 QNYE ~ ro ae - a Boas
no =i SNS no = no” a o = WS
= wo ial = a z in z o SS
IITLLIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILMLILSNI_ NVINOSHLINS, S3IYVEGIT_ LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN
ae A : = yy, = = wp ; s
25 We: Ny 2 G3 2 YG 5
mia: XN a ~ WX & Pim na a fais \N a
pO o BAS Oo GY GG = 9 0S for ND 9
SF = Nr 2.7K E = S =
a ‘ 2 = 2 FA 7 * 2

S3IYVYSEIT LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILNLILSNI_ NVINOSHLIWS

We,

ON NOILNLILSNI_ NVINOSHLIWS

LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN

NOILALILSNI

NOLLNLILSNI

LIBRARIES
NOILNLILSNI

J17 LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILNLILSNI NVINOSHLINS S3IYVYEIT LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN

INSTITUTION

INSTITUTION
S321YVvdstt

INSTITUTION

INSTITUTION, NOILALILSNI
s SS 7 jl
. “ity
S3IUVUGIT. LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN

S3tYVYslT

ION NOILNLILSNI NVINOSHLINS S31YVYGIT_LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILNLILSNI_ NVINOSHLIWS

NVINOSHLINS SZiu¥VUsIT LIBRARIES

NVINOSHLIWS
SMITHSONIAN
NVINOSHLINS
SMITHSONIAN
40)

Ml
SMITHSONIAN
NVINOSHLIWS
SMITHSONIAN

Ji7 LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN. INSTITUTION NOILNLILSNI NVINOSHLINS S31YVYSIT LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN

> w wo — w

Zz ul x 2

7) ; - WAS n Se ke
| pig = sq ee
5 tf Z Vy < WSS \ Vf Lf
2) S ges oc ; om Wiz.
pe “i N a a

5 % et OQ We

2 J 4

ION_ NOILNLILSNI_NVINOSHLINS S3I1Y¥VYdIT LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION — NOILALILSNI NVINOSHLIWS

S
hes

JIT_LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILALILSNI NVINOSHLINS SSIYVUEIT LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN

S3tYVYSITLIBRARIE
INSTITUTION NOILALILSNI
SZ1YWUGITLIBRARIE

INSTITUTION

INSTITUTION

INSTITUTION NOILNLILSNI
SJIYVYEIT LIBRARIES

Ssatyvygl

ee ; uw : 2 ¥ w
z E ma ar tf, — as
Zi 5 \ = 5 SY 2 9G5 2 OU24Y.5 wi
FE EN S Zz AW 3 Vif i “2 6 GP Hi ZF WS
Ee Ne’ 2 E QO 2.47kh = g we EF NAY 2
a ~~ 2 So = = 5 = w
ON NOILNLILSNI_NVINOSHLINS S31YVYAIT LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION | NOILNLILSNI_NVINOSHLINS
=z N WwW z n = ui S
= n Re ” — nw a ~ a

Kull Ket VE LON KE
~~ VILE (> ENB) lS Qiao (So CTY yo.

eR wo

SN
FIY\
101
Sb It

CRLSSI

Smithsonian Year 1985 Supplement

Chronology and Appendixes

Smithsonian Institution Press
Washington, D.C.

Smithsonian Year 1985 Supplement

Chronology and Appendixes

Smithsonian Institution Press
Washington, D.C.
Contents
Chronology 5

Appendix 1. Members of the Smithsonian Council, Boards, and
Commissions, September 30, 1985 33

Appendix 2. Smithsonian Special Foreign Currency Program Awards
Made October 1, 1984, through September 30, 1985 47

Appendix 3. National Museum Act Grants Awarded in Fiscal Year 1985 51

Appendix 4. Academic, Research Training, and Internship
Appointments in Fiscal Year 1985 by,

Appendix 5. Publications of the Smithsonian Institution Press in
Fiscal Year 1985 94

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff of the Smithsonian Institution

and Its Subsidiaries in Fiscal Year 1985 106
Appendix 7. The Smithsonian Institution and Its Subsidiaries,

September 30, 1985 228
Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution in Fiscal Year 1985 279

Appendix 9. Benefactors of the Smithsonian Institution in
Fiscal Year 1985 401

Appendix ro. Visitors to Smithsonian Institution Museums in
Fiscal Year 1985 444

Note The arrangement of bureau listings within the individual
appendixes is not alphabetical but rather follows the organiza-
tion of the Smithsonian Institution as shown on the next page.

The pages of this Supplement were photomechanically
reproduced from typescript provided by the individual bureaus
and offices.
The Smithsonian Institution

Establishment, Board of Regents, Executive Committee,
and the Secretary
Office of the Secretary
Office of the Under Secretary
Office of Audits and Investigations
Office of the General Counsel
Science
National Air and Space Museum
National Museum of Natural History
National Zoological Park
Office of Fellowships and Grants
Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory
Smithsonian Environmental Research Center
Smithsonian Office of Educational Research
Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute
History and Art
Anacostia Neighborhood Museum
Archives of American Art
Center for Asian Art: Freer Gallery of Art and
Arthur M. Sackler Gallery
Cooper-Hewitt Museum
Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden
Joseph Henry Papers
National Museum of African Art
National Museum of American Art
National Museum of American History
National Portrait Gallery
Office of American Studies
Museum Programs
Conservation Analytical Laboratory
National Museum Act Programs
Office of Exhibits Central
Office of Horticulture

Office of Museum Programs

Office of the Registrar

Smithsonian Institution Archives

Smithsonian Institution Libraries

Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service

Public Service

Office of Elementary and Secondary Education
Office of Folklife Programs

Office of Public Affairs

Office of Smithsonian Symposia and Seminars

Office of Telecommunications

Smithsonian Institution Press

Smithsonian Magazine

Visitor Information and Associates’ Reception Center

Administration

Administrative and Support Activities
Financial Management Activities
Smithsonian Institution Women’s Council
Smithsonian Internship Council

Directorate of International Activities
Membership and Development

Office of Development

National Board of the Smithsonian Associates
Women’s Committee of the Smithsonian Associates
James Smithson Society

Smithsonian National Associate Program
Smithsonian Resident Associate Program

Under Separate Boards of Trustees

Reading Is Fundamental, Inc.

Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars
John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts
National Gallery of Art
Smithsonian Year - 1985
CHRONOLOGY

The following is a representative selection of Smithsonian events during the
fiscal year. No attempt has been made to make this a complete compilation of the
Institution's activities.

October

Awards: The American Association of Zoological Parks and Aquariums (AAZPA)
presented the Marlin Perkins Award of Excellence to former National Zoo Director
Theodore H. Reed. AAZPA Significant Achievement Awards were also presented to
the National Zoo for the new Monkey Island exhibit and a new public affairs
program, "Symposia for the Public."

October

New Service: Information Desk services provided through the Visitor Information
and Associates' Reception Center began at the National Museum of American Art and
the National Portrait Gallery.

October

Publication: The first issue of Journeys, a magazine for junior-high-school-
aged children based on Smithsonian programs and resources, was printed and

. distributed on a test basis to selected teachers around the nation. The pilot
project was funded by the Educational Outreach Fund and carried out by the Office
of Elementary and Secondary Education, assisted by the Office of Public Affairs.

October

Publication: The Smithsonian Collection of Recordings released a seven-record
set entitled "American Popular Song: Six Decades of Songwriters and Singers."

October

Seminar: - Dr. Richard Mitchell, author, professor of English at Glassboro State
College and editor of The Underground Grammarian, gave a seminar at the
Smithsonian Office of Educational Research on "Alternatives to the Traditional
Education System.”

October

Television: "Smithsonian World," the series of prime-time, one-hour specials
co-produced by the Smithsonian and WETA-TV, aired five new programs between
October and May; reruns of seven earlier shows were also aired during July and
August. Among many of the most prestigious industry honors received by the show
was an Emmy awarded in August.
October

Workshop: The Office of Museum Programs, in cooperation with the Virginia
Association of Museums, began a series of four on-site workshops at locations
across Virginia.

October 1

Organization: The Directorate of International Activities was established and
John E. Reinhardt, formerly Assistant Secretary of History and Art, was named as
director, with responsibility for the Office of Service and Protocol (formerly
the Office of International Activities), the Office of Publications Exchange
(formerly the International Exchange Service) and the International Center, a
component of the Center for African, Near Eastern and Asian Cultures.

October 4

Milestone: The Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden celebrated the tenth
anniversary of its opening.

October 5

Exhibition: Werner Drewes, Sixty-five Years of Printmaking, opened at the
Museum of American Art with 110 works drawn from the museum's extensive holdings.
In a subsequent public program, Drewes discussed his life and work with noted
critic and designer Wolf von Eckardt.

October 6-8

Exhibition: The Office of Horticulture displayed prime specimens of the orchid
collection at the National Capital Orchid Society Show.

October 9

Exhibition: European Roots of American Pharmacy, an exhibition of instruments,

paintings, drug containers and other objects showing the influence of the tools

and practices of the European apothecary on the American pharmacy, opened in the
Dibner Gallery at the National Museum of American History.

October 12-13

Symposium: Eight distinguished scientists examined the diversity of animal
mating systems in the National Zoo's public symposium entitled "The Mating Game:
Exploring the Mysteries of Animal Reproduction."

October 19

Exhibition: Baseball Immortals, 1905-35: The Photographs of Charles Martin
Conlon opened at the National Portrait Gallery, an exhibit jointly organized
with The Sporting News.
October 19

Special Event: Archaeologist Mary Leakey lectured for the Resident Associate
Program on discoveries of fossil human ancestors in East Africa; the event was
cosponsored by the National Museum of Natural History.

October 20

Concert series: The 20th-Century Consort opened its 1984-85 season at the
Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden with the first of four concerts, entitled
"Election Special."

October 20

Symposium: "Can't Something Be Done?," a program co-sponsored by the Museum of
American History, focused on Eleanor Roosevelt's activities in Washington, D.C.,
during the New Deal and featured discussions among scholars of the New Deal

era and individuals who had helped to fashion the New Deal policies.

October 21

Exhibition: The Anacostia Museum opened Black Women: Achievements Against the
Odds, an exhibition providing an overview of black women's history from the
colonial period to the modern era. The exhibition was produced by the
Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service.

October 21

Special Program: The Office of Museum Programs and the United States Information
Agency co-sponsored the second annual museum administration project, enabling
seven museum professionals from six European countries to study current practices
and problems of museum administration at the Smithsonian and other museums in the
United States.

October 24-26
Colloquium: The Kellogg Project's "Colloquium II" was held at the Xerox
International Training Center, Leesburg, Va. The theme, "Museums in Pursuit of
Educational Excellence," was addressed by six speakers.

October 29

New System: The Smithsonian Institution Libraries introduced its new Automated
Library System to representatives of Institution units.

October 31

Exhibition: Praise Poems: The Katherine White Collection opened at the
National Museum of African Art.
November

Gift: The Earl Silas Tupper Foundation pledged $4 million to the Smithsonian
Tropical Research Institute for the construction of the Earl S. Tupper Research
and Conference Center in Panama.

November

New Facility: The Smithsonian Institution Libraries announced the opening of a
new branch library in the Office of Horticulture. The library, currently located
in the Arts and Industries building, is the fifteenth branch library in the
system.

November 1

Premiere: "Comet Quest," a multi-media presentation that explores comets through
the ages, opened at the National Air and Space Museum's Albert Einstein
Planetarium.

November 1

Workshop: A regional workshop, sponsored by the Office of Elementary and
Secondary Education, was held in Oakland, Calif., bringing more than 310 teachers
to work with local museum educators. Additional workshops were held in
Charleston, S.C. (November 8), and in Oak Ridge, Tenn. (March 23).

November 5

Exhibition: Marine Mammals of the World, an exhibit of the Smithsonian
Institution Traveling Exhibition Service, opened at the National Bank of Panama
Museum under the sponsorship of the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute and
the Directorate of Marine Resources of the Government of Panama. All exhibit
materials were translated into Spanish.

November 10

Workshop: Carolyn Landon, artist, conducted an adult workshop, "African
Sculpture Through the Artist's Eyes," in the galleries of the Museum of African
Art.

November 13-14

Visit: Their Royal Highnesses the Grand Duke and Grand Duchess of Luxembourg
visited the Freer Gallery of Art and the galleries, plaza and garden of the
Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden.

November 13

Seminar: Prof. Andrew S. Skinner, Adam Smith professor of political economy at
the University of Glasgow, led a discussion on Adam Smith and public policy, part
of a continuing series examining the intellectual roots of the U.S. Constitution
and Bill of Rights.
November 13

Special Event: Avant-garde performer Meredith Monk appeared at the Hirshhorn
Museum and Sculpture Garden in a program co-sponsored by the Resident Associate
Program and the Hirshhorn as part of the Hirshhorn's tenth anniversary
celebration.

November 14

Exhibition: Miguel Covarrubias Caricatures, the first retrospective of this
artist's caricatures, opened at the National Portrait Gallery.

November 14

Exhibition: The Metropolitan Opera Centennial: A Photographic Album opened at
the National Portrait Gallery.

November 26

Milestone: The SIL acquisitions unit began processing orders of books and
journals electronically on its SIL Automated Library System through the
Smithsonian Institution Bibliographic Information System (SIBIS).

November 28

Telecast: "The Sea: A Quest for Our Future," a one-hour documentary produced by
the Office of Telecommunications, had its premiere on the Public Broadcasting
System network and subsequently received the 1984 Best Nature Production Award
from the International TV Movie Festival (March 1985) and a second-place award
from the 1985 National Educational Film Festival.

November 29

New Facility: The archives of American Art officially opened its sixth center,
the Southern California Research Center, in San Marino, Calif.

November 29

Publication: The first volume of a series of annual reports, National Air and
Space Museum Research Report 1984, was published, covering the historical and
scientific research programs of the National Air and Space Museum.

December

Discovery: Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory scientists discovered a new
gravitational lens in Constellation Pegasus, a lens which is apparently serving
as a "cosmic magnifying glass" to enhance the image of a much more distant
quasar.

December
Discovery: Botanists of the Museum of Natural History reported the

identification of the deepest growing plant found on Earth, an alga they
discovered off an uncharted, underwater island in the Bahamas.
Io

December

Publication: Solar Flux Atlas from 296 to 1300 nm was published by SAO,
National Solar Observatory and Harvard. The atlas serves as a spectroscopic
standard for researchers in solar and planetary physics, stellar spectroscopy,
and atmospheric sciences.

December 1

Special Event: The ninth annual "Hirshhorn Holiday for Children" was presented
at the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, drawing some 3,500 visitors to the
Museum during four hours of live performances.

December 5

Announcement: The Air and Space Museum announced a project to construct and fly
a replica of a prehistoric flying reptile, a pterosaur known as Quetzalcoatlus
northropi. The radio-controlled flying replica will be included in "On the
Wing," the museum's upcoming large-screen film that compares natural and
mechanical flight.

December 7

Exhibition: Homage to Franz Kline: Photographs by Aaron Siskind opened at the
Museum of American Art with 48 works, celebrating the friendship between the two
artists. In a subsequent public program, Siskind discussed that friendship as
well as his own life and work.

December 7-9

Milestone: The National Associates Travel Program celebrated its 13th annual
Christmas at the Smithsonian Weekend for Smithsonian Associates, highlighted by a
festive dinner and tree-trimming party in the Castle.

December 10

New Facility: The Great Hall of the Smithsonian Institution Building was
designated as the site for the Smithsonian Information Center, a central point
for visitor information and orientation to the Institution.

December 13

Graduation: Thirty-five high school students graduated from the Office of
Elementary and Secondary Education's Career Awareness Program, part of the
Institution's affirmative action initiative, which features a special educational
program for District of Columbia high school students.

December 13
Milestone: The first artifact--a jar filled with Pacific Halibut plankton

specimens--was placed in storage at the Museum Support Center, to be followed by
millions of other objects and specimens from the Smithsonian collections.
December 13

Special Event: The Cooper-Hewitt Museum hosted a party in honor of Secretary
Adams to introduce him to the friends of the Smithsonian Institution in New York
City.

December 14

Exhibition: The opening of the eighth annual Trees of Christmas, an exhibition
developed by the Office of Horticulture in conjunction with the Museum of
American History, included 12 trees decorated to display the ethnic, artistic and
cultural use of the Christmas tree.

December 14

Special Event: The Women's Committee of the Smithsonian Associates held its 14th
annual Christmas dinner dance in the Museum of Natural History. The proceeds,
along with those from the Washington Craft Show, were used to support 29 projects
throughout the Institution.

December 21

Exhibition: Japanese Calligraphy. Traditional styles of Japanese writing, as
well as cursive styles inspired by Chinese models developed during the 8th
through 12th centuries, were displayed at the Freer Gallery in this exhibition of
screens, hanging scrolls and hand scrolls. ,

December 26-31

Special Event: "Holiday Celebration," the Museum of American History's annual
celebration, drew on the talents of more than 70 musical groups, dramatic
performers, artisans and cooks to demonstrate the customs of 22 countries and
cultures now practiced during Christmas, Hanukkah and New Year's festivities in
the United States. The celebration attracted more than 115,000 visitors.

December 31

Visitors: An estimated 23.5 million visits were recorded at the Smithsonian's 13
museums in Washington, D.C., in 1984. Peak tourist months were June and July,
during the Folklife Festival, the Aditi exhibition at the Museum of Natural
History, and the introduction of the new IMAX film, "The Dream Is Alive," at the
Air and Space Museum.

January

Acquisition: Successful negotiations began for the purchase of an unparalleled
treasury of Islamic and Persian paintings and manuscripts assembled between 1900
and 1943 by Henri Vever, a French Jeweler. The collection provides a
comprehensive survey of the art of the Persian book and is considered one of the
most significant purchases in the Institution's history.

aE
January

Acquisition: A premier collection of butterflies from North and South America,
numbering 100,000 specimens, was acquired by the Museum of Natural History.
Included are many species previously not represented in the Smithsonian
collection and species previously unknown to scientists.

January °

Gift: Gamez and Bolanos, two uninhabited and virtually undisturbed islands off
the Pacific coast of Panama, were donated by Mrs. Jean Niemier to the Smithsonian
Tropical Research Institute through the Nature Conservancy's International
Program in honor of her late husband, Edward A. "Ed" Niemeir.

January

Grants Review: The Office of Fellowships and Grants convened advisory councils
to approve Smithsonian Foreign Currency Program grants.

January

New Program: The Educational Fellowship was established by the Office of
Fellowships and Grants to support minority students while they pursue graduate
study in a relevant Smithsonian field.

January

Report: "Role of Family in the Promotion of Science Literacy," final report for
a National Science Foundation grant, was completed by Smithsonian Office of
Education Research.

January 11

Acquisitions: The Museum of American Art announced the gift of 311 paintings,
sculptures, drawings and collages from Container Corporation of America,
including works by Leonard Baskin, Joseph Cornell, Willem de Kooning, Jacob
Lawrence, Larry Rivers, James Rosenquist and Ben Shahn.

January 11

Exhibition: Spanning Niagara: The International Bridges, 1848-1962, an
exhibition of approximately 75 prints, drawings and photographs at the Museum of
American History, showed the technical and aesthetic challenges met by the 13
bridges built over the Niagara River to link the United States and Canada.

January 13-15

Workshop: The Smithsonian Environmental Research Center in Rockville, Md.,
sponsored a workshop in which 15 experts discussed landscape ecology. Future
meetings are planned in January 1986 and January 1987 to continue the task of
developing a better theoretical basis for this field of ecology.
January 15

Exhibition: Sharing Traditions: Five Black Artists in Nineteenth-Century
America opened at the Museum of American Art on the anniversary of Martin Luther
King Jr's birth. A month-long series of related public programs, "A Festival of
Afro-American Arts," included lectures, a musical revue, films, readings, a dance
performance and conversations with contemporary artists. Among these events,
"Forum '85: A Question of Place," documenting the status of the Afro-American
visual artist in the contemporary marketplace, was made possible by a grant from
the Metropolitan Life Foundation.

January 16

New Series: A series of orientation gatherings was initiated by the Staff,
Volunteer and Intern Services Unit of the Visitor Information and Associates'
Reception Center to provide Smithsonian interns with an opportunity to meet
their peers and to learn about the Institution as a whole.

January 18

Exhibition: Peace and Friendship: Indian Peace Medals in the United States
opened at the National Portrait Gallery.

January 18-21

Inaugural Events: Seven Smithsonian museums remained open until 9 p.m. for four
days during the week of the Presidental inaugural. Special concerts were offered
in the Air and Space Museum and in the Museum of American History. One of the
official Inaugural Balls was held in the Air and Space Museum.

January 29-30

Seminar: Dr. Reuven Feuerstein, Israeli psychologist, in collaboration with the
Smithsonian Kellogg Project and the Capital Children's Museum in Washington,
D.C., presented a two-day seminar at the Smithsonian entitled "The Mediated
Learning Experience" for about 70 selected participants.

January 30-February 1

Special Project: A team of 15 conservators and scientists from the Conservation
Analytical Laboratory made an extensive study of the condition of the various
parts of the Wright Brothers Flyer in preparation for restoration by the staff of
the Air and Space Museum.

February

Awards: The Torch, the Smithsonian's staff newspaper produced by the Office of
Public Affairs, received an Award of Excellence (second place) in the annual
writing competition of the Washington Chapter of the Society of Technical
Communication and subsequently a first prize in the Society's international
competition. Society awards also went to Smithsonian Institution Research
Reports, the brochure Science at the Smithsonian and several individual

stories of the Smithsonian News Service. Research Reports also won top honors
for writing and design in the annual competition of the American Association of
Museums.

LS)
14

February

Film: The Office of Telecommunications completed a half-hour film for -
educational use. Its working title is "Coral Reefs and the Discovery of New
Resources."

February °

Milestone: A theme for the inaugural exhibition and associated programs of the
International Center was selected. The exhibition, scheduled to open in the
Spring of 1987, is tentatively entitled "Generations" and will focus on the
universal experience of birth.

February

Research: The gas chromatograph-mass spectrometer of the Conservation Analytical
Laboratory, an instrument for the analysis of complicated mixtures of organic
materials in very small samples and the only one of its kind in the United States
totally devoted to work on museum materials, became operational.

February 1

Exhibition: Conservation of Modern Art, an exhibition outlining the treatment
and restoration of 26 works from the Hirshhorn Museum's collection, opened at the
museum supported by the Women's Committee of the Smithsonian Associates.

February 7-8

Colloquium/Concert: "The Art of Jazz Improvisation: A Festival of Traditional
and Contemporary Approaches," held at the Museum of American History, included
performances by jazz artists Clark Terry, Archie Shepp, Eddie Barefield and Doc
Cheatham and a colloquium chaired by Dr. Leonard Goines, professor of Jazz
History at New York University.

February 8

Restoration: The restoration of the 1903 Wright Flyer, the first machine to
achieve controlled, powered, heavier-than-air flight, began at the Air and Space
Museum. The five-month project was completed in a special gallery that allowed
visitors to watch the restoration.

February 13

New Research: Dr. M. James Blackman and Dr. Rita P. Wright started a major
archaeometrical project on the production and distribution of ceramics in fourth
and third millenia B.C. Middle Asia with the help of funding provided by the
Scholarly Studies Program. This project is a cooperative effort between the
Conservation Analytical Laboratory and a number of archaeological institutions in
Europe and the Middle East.
February 15

Exhibition: The National Portrait Gallery opened the exhibition Joseph Wright:
American Artist, 1756-1793, accompanied by a full biographical study and the
first catalogue raisonne of his work.

February 15

Panel Discussion: In conjunction with the opening of the Museum of American Art
exhibition LIFE: The Second Decade, 1946-1955, six LIFE photographers
reminisced about their magazine careers in a program co-sponsored by .the
Smithsonian Resident Associates.

February 17-March 18

Special Program: The Office of Museum Programs and USIA co-sponsored a new
program, "Collections: Management, Preventive Care and Conservation," enabling
13 international museum professionals to study various aspects of collections
Management at the Smithsonian and at host museums in six U.S. cities.

February 18-19

Workshop: The Smithsonian Environmental Research Center Facility at Edgewater,
Md., and the National Science Foundation convened a group of 50 international
experts on the metabolic processes operating below the soil surface in tidal salt
marshes.

February 20

Exhibition: Jim Dine: Five Themes, a traveling exhibition organized by the
Walker Art Center, Minneapolis, opened at the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture
Garden.

February 25-April 4

Field Course: The Smithsonian Tropical Research’ Institute and the University of
Panama offered the first Graduate Field Course in Marine Ecology. Attendance by
a visiting instructor, Dr. Peter W. Glynn, from the University of Miami's
Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmospheric Science, and students from Mexico,
Venezuela, Costa Rica, Ecuador and Colombia, was made possible by a grant to STRI
from the Tinker Foundation.

February 27

Lecture Series: A five-part "Exploring Space" lecture series, in which well-
known space scientists participated, began at the Air and Space Museum. The
series continued through June.

March

Acquisition: The Museum of American History and the Pilgrim Society of Plymouth,
Mass., jointly acquired a rare silver wine cup that belonged to William Bradford,
governor of the Plymouth Colony. On June 14, the cup went on display for
approximately two years at the Museum of American History.
16

March

Contracts Awarded: Leon Van Speybroeck of the Smithsonian Astrophysical
Observatory was selected as Telescope Scientist for the Advanced X-Ray
Astrophysics Facility and an SAO proposal to build a High Resolution Camera for
that spacecraft was accepted for "definition phase" funding.

March

Grant: The National Endowment for the Arts awarded two grants for the production
of two new versions of the Office of Telecommunications' film "American Picture
Palaces," one a short-subject, the other a half-hour documentary for Public
Broadcasting System telecast.

March

Milestone: The National Museum of Natural History celebrated the 75th
anniversary of the opening of its present building with a series of events and
exhibitions, installations, and publications.

.

March A
New Service: Public tours of the original Smithsonian Institution Building were
initiated through the Visitor Information and Associates' Reception Center's
Castle docent program.

March 2

Colloquium: "Public Enjoyment of Irish Legacies: Castles, Gardens and
Scientific Wonder" featured a joint illustrated presentation on Ireland's lasting
treasures by The Hon. Desmond Guinness and the Seventh Earl of Rosse.

March 7

Milestone: The Smithsonian Institution Libraries Translations Publishing Program
Review Committee, composed of representatives of four museums, met to rank the
proposals received for translation of publications funded with Special Foreign
Currency.

March 24-29

Seminar: The National Zoo conducted a five-day seminar, sponsored by Smithsonian
National Associates, on animal communication and the Zoo's related research
projects and specialized equipment.

March 29

Exhibition: Creation and Renewal: Views of Cotapaxi by Frederic Edwin Church
opened at the Museum of American Art with 38 works documenting the artist's
extended fascination with the Ecuadorian volcano. A related symposium was also
held.
April

Research: Stephen Hubbell of the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute and
Peter Ashton of the Harvard Arboretum established a mapping project to study
tropical tree diversity and population dynamics at the Pasoh Forest Reserve in
conjunction with the Forest Institute of Malaysia. This study is similar to a
project underway at Barro Colorado Island, Panama, and will permit comparisons of
forest dynamics between Old and New World tropical rain forests.

April

Seminar: John Holt, educator, consultant and author, conducted a seminar on non-
school educational means at the Smithsonian's Office of Educational Research.

April 10

Exhibition: A major exhibition entitled African Masterpieces from the Musee de
l'Homme, one of the most significant collections of African art in the world,
opened at the Museum of African Art.

April 11

Exhibitions: William Edward West, 1788-1857: Kentucky Painter opened at the
National Portrait Gallery. The first exhibition of West's work, it included
portraits of Lord Byron, Robert E. Lee and other prominent personalities of the
‘period. A companion exhibition, A Truthful Likeness: Chester Harding and His
Portraits, was also on view during this period.

April 15

Grant Awards: The Office of Fellowships and Grants designated the 1985-1986
fellowships recipients. The first two recipients of the Rockerfeller Foundation
Residency Program in the Humanities grant were also announced.

April 15

Installation: The Museum of American Art installed "Achelous and Hercules," a
major mural painting by Thomas Hart Benton. This important 1947 work was a gift
from Allied Stores Corporation and a museum purchase through the Smithsonian's
Major Acquisitions Fund.

April 15

Lecture Series: "Connoisseurship, Collectors and Collections: African
Masterpieces from the Musee de 1'Homme," an eight-session series of lectures was
launched, presented and co-sponsored by the Museum of African Art and the
Smithsonian's Resident Associate Program.

April 16
Course: The Resident Associate Program launched a course on "The Television Age"

featuring lectures by such distinguished television news correspondents as Roger
Mudd, Ted Koppel, Sam Donaldson and Lesley Stahl.
18

April 21

Award: A first-place award was given to the Office of Horticulture for its
display in the Maryland Orchid Society Show.

April 21-24

Workshop: Forty noted soil science authorities gathered at the Smithsonian

Environmental Research Center to evaluate the present status of the applications
of soil science to environmental research and to write a position paper on future
needs.

April 23-27

Conference: The National Zoo acted as host for the "Smithsonian Interbureau
Conference on Tropical Biology," focusing on areas where cooperative efforts
could be effectively applied. Formal presentations by Tropical Research Center,
Museum of Natural History and National Zoo staff were followed by workshop
sessions at the Conservation and Research Center in Front Royal, Va.

April 24-28

Workshop: A Kellogg Project workshop on "Conservation Through the Looking
Glass," i.e., carrying out conservation work in the exhibition galleries where
it can be interpreted for the public, was held at the Fine Arts Museums of San
Francisco.

April 26

Exhibition: Designers of the Jet Age, devoted to the careers and contributions
of two renowned aircraft designers, Ed Heinemann and Clarence "Kelly" Johnson,
opened at the Air and Space Museum.

April 26

Exhibition: The Glazed Ceramic Tradition of Seto and Mino Wares. Recent
research in these neighboring pottery districts generated this Freer exhibition
examining the development of glazed ceramics during Japan's medieval period
(13th-16th centuries).

April 26-28
Special Event: One hundred craftspeople from 28 states and the District of
Columbia participated in the third annual Washington Craft Show, a fundraising
activity sponsored by the Women's Committee of the Smithsonian Associates.

April 27-28

Special Event: The Air and Space Museum's forth annual Paul E. Garber Facility
Open House attracted more than 8,000 visitors.
May

Award: Secretary Emeritus S. Dillon Ripley was presented the Medal of Freedom by
President Ronald Reagan.

May a
Award: "Telling Lives: That Damn Cowboy," a production of the Office of
Telecommunications, received a CINE Golden Eagle Award.

May

Film: "The Blue Planet," a film on marine ecosystems produced by the Office of
Telecommunications for the Marine Life Hall of the Museum of Natural History, was
completed.

May

Outreach: Smithsonian Museums At-A-Glance, a full-color leaflet designed to
promote pre-visit orientation, was produced by the Visitor Information and
Associates' Reception Center for distribution through the tour and travel
industry.

May

Publication: An essay on 19th-century horticulture, co-authored by James Buckler
and Katheryn Meehan, appeared in the exhibition catalogue for The Art of
Gardening--Maryland Landscapes and the American Garden Aesthetic 1730-1930,
presented by the Historical Society of Talbot County, Md.

May 1

Visit: Her Majesty Queen Noor al-Hussein, Queen of the Hashemite Kingdom of
Jordan, visited the Freer Gallery of Art.

May 2-4

Symposium: A conference on music in America, held at the Museum of American
History, brought together some 50 artists, scholars and organizational
representatives to discuss the Smithsonian's role in the research and
presentation of American musical forms.

May 6

Appointment: Dean Anderson, Acting Assistant Secretary for History and Art, was
named Smithsonian Under Secretary.

May 7

Visit: Mme. Georges Pompidou, widow of the former President of France, toured
the galleries, garden and plaza of the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden.
290

May 8

New Study: The Smithsonian Institution Libraries launched a preservation
planning program as one of ten libraries selected by the Association of Research
Libraries to conduct a self-study to recommend new preservation policies and
programs.

May 9

Course: The Resident Associate Program began a course on "The Ascendancy of
Asia: The Pacific Community in the 21st Century," in cooperation with the
Woodrow Wilson Center's Asia Program and the Asia Foundation.

May 10

Graduation: Commencement exercises were held for the second class of the Cooper-
Hewitt Museum and Parsons School of Design Master's Degree Program in the History
of Decorative Arts.

May 12-June 10
International Program: The Office of Museum Programs and USIA co-sponsored the
sixth annual "Education in Museums" project for 12 international museum
professionals.

May 13

Award: The Charles Lang Freer Medal was presented to Prof. Stella Kramrisch,
distinguished Indianist.

May 13-17

Training: "Techniques, Uses, Differences and Operating Parameters of Current
Paper Suction Tables," an advanced training course taught at the Conservation
Analytical Laboratory by seven expert instructors, was attended by 20
conservators.

May 14

Exhibition: The Arts of South Asia. In observance of "Aditi: The Festival of
India at the Smithsonian," the Freer presented its largest exhibition of painting
and sculpture from the Indian subcontinent, including a rare 13th-14th-century
bronze bull and other new acquisitions displayed for the first time.

May 14-18

Milestone: Secretary Adams and nine other Smithsonian speakers traveled to
Tokyo, Japan for the first international lecture series sponsored by the
Smithsonian National Associates Lecture and Seminar Program. Many of the
sessions were translated simultaneously into Japanese.
May 16

Exhibition: Celestial Images: Astronomical Charts, 1500-1900, at the Museum

of American History, displayed 39 rare depictions of star patterns and planetary
systems that illustrate a unity of art and science from the Renaissance to the
end of the 19th century. :

May 16

Special Event: "National Zoofari," a Friends of the National Zoo's annual
fundraising event, featured entertainment and silent auctions in support of the
T.H. Reed Animal Acquisition Fund.

May 19

Special Event: The Office of Horticulture hosted an open house for Smithsonian
staff and volunteers at its greenhouses, providing guests the opportunity to view
the plant collections under cultivation.

May 19-23

Seminar: "Aircraft Restoration," a week-long seminar held at the Paul E. Garber
Facility, was sponsored by the Smithsonian National Associates Lecture and
Seminar Program.

May 20-22

Training: A course on "Metals for Conservators," organized by the Objects
Speciality Group of the American Institute for Conservation, was cosponsored by
the Conservation Analytical Laboratory.

May 21

Groundbreaking: Secretary Adams and other Smithsonian officials, officials of
the National Park Service and members of the Fort Stanton Civic Association
participated in groundbreaking ceremonies for the Anacostia Neighborhood Museum
Exhibition Hall, Education Department and Public Space.

May 21

Special Event: The Cooper-Hewitt Museum celebrated the opening of the exhibition
Timeless'Sources: Rare Books from the Cooper-Hewitt Museum and the publication
of an accompanying handbook.

May 22

Chairman Elected: Sydney Lewis, Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer,
Best Products Company Inc., Richmond, Va., was elected Chairman of the Board of
Trustees of the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, succeeding Sen. Daniel P.
Moynihan (D-N.Y.).
ied

.

May 25

Summer Hours: Hours at the Air and Space Museum were extended to 7:30 p.m. seven
days a week between May 25 and Labor Day.

May 28-31

Training: An advanced training course on wood identification was taught by Dr.
Richard Dodd at the Conservation Analytical Laboratory.

June

Acquisition: Asian lions, one male and one female, were added to the collections
of the National Zoo as part of a breeding program between cooperating zoos.

June

Awards: Two Smithsonian News Service stories, published by the Office of Public
Affairs, received first and third place awards in the National Association of
Government Comunicators Blue Pencil competition. The television public service
announcement "Kids at the Smithsonian," with actress Sandy Duncan, was awarded an
“NAGC Gold Screen award. "Radio Smithsonian," an Office of Telecommunications
production, won two NAGC awards: "Cowboys," a program in the American Stories
mini-series, won Best of Competition, and the series as a whole won the
Outstanding Audiovisual Production honors.

June

Grant: The Jessie Smith Noyes Foundation awarded $49,000 to the Smithsonian
Tropical Research Institute for fellowships to Latin American students to
conduct predoctoral research at STRI.

June

Grants: The Smithsonian Institution Libraries was awarded three grants from the
Atherton Seidell Endowment Fund, one to publish scientific records in non-Roman
alphabets, a second to purchase back issues of journals for the STRI Branch
Library, and the third to acquire an image digitizer that permits rapid
teletransmission of documents.

June

National Event: The Festival of India 1985-1986 opened in Washington, D.C., with
Smithsonian-wide participation planned for the next 18 months, including
exhibitions, seminars, classes, a major portion of the Festival of American
Folklife, radio programs and publications.

June
Publication: <A Summary Profile of Smithsonian International Activities, the

first comprehensive survey of Smithsonian activities around the world, was
published by the Office of Service and Protocol.
June

Publication: Smithsonian Institution Libraries Research Guide No. 4, African

Art: A Bibliographic Guide by Janet L. Stanley, Chief Librarian of the Museum
of African Art Branch Library, was published by Africana Publishing Company, a
division of Holmes and Meier.

June

Special Program: Dr. Jerry Bell of the National Science Foundation spoke on
community involvement in science education projects at the Community Science
Project "Recognition Night" at Johns Hopkins University's Applied Physics Lab, an
event sponsored by the Smithsonian Office of Educational Research.

June 3

Special Event: The Cooper-Hewitt Museum opened Wine: Celebration and
Ceremony, a major exhibition focusing on design related to the history of wine-
making and wine-drinking.

June 3-7

Program: Fifteen students from the Multiculture Bilingual High School in
Washington, D.C., participated in a one week junior externship program in nine
curatorial, administrative, design and educations areas. The program was
organized by the Office of Museum Programs.

June 4

Acquisition: The Museum of African Art exercised the first option on a major
collection of African art objects from the 12th/15th century to the mid-20th
century, assembled over the years by a private European collector.

June 4

Exhibition: Aditi: A Celebration of Life, a major exhibition marking the
Festival of India 1985-1986, opened at the Museum of Natural History. The
exhibition, organized by the Museum of Natural History Office of Exhibits and the
Office of Folklife Programs, incorporated 2,000 objects with India's venerable
folk traditions as expressed by 40 craftsmen and performing artists in a setting
simulating Indian village life. Plants native to India were provided by the
Office of Horticulture to complement the exhibition.

June 4
Special Event: The Cooper-Hewitt Museum hosted the opening ceremonies of Museum
Mile Night in New York City. Mayor Edward I. Koch officiated, and more than
8,000 visitors toured the museum in a three-hour period.

June 5
Award: Christine Jones and William Forman of the Smithsonian Astrophysical

Observatory received the Bruno Rossi Award of the American Astronomical Society
for their research on hot X-ray coronae around elliptical galaxies.

Nv
LS)
June 5

Exhibition: Representation Abroad, a major exhibition of representational art
by 16 artists from Australia, Colombia, Great Britain, France, Italy, West
Germany and Spain, opened at the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, previewed
on June 4 by 651 guests, including eleven of the artists.

June 5

Series: "Conserving Traditional Cultures," a four-part film/lecture series, was
launched. It was organized and co-sponsored by the Office of Folklife Programs,
Department of Anthropology, Human Studies Film Archives, and the Resident
Associates Program, and featured four award-winning ethnographic films focusing
on cultural conservation issues, with interpretations and discussions by leading
folklore and anthropology scholars. :

June 8

Workshop: A program of films, African board games and music was held at the
Museum of African Art for children and their families in connection with the
exhibit African Mankala.

June 9

Premiere: The Resident Associate Program screened "Wagner," a nine-hour film
epic about the operatic genius, in its Washington premiere.

June 10

Internships: The Office of Elementary and Secondary Education began the first
session of "Intern '85," a high school intern program which brought 33 students
from across the country to participate in a learning/service program at the
Smithsonian.

June 10

Workshops: The Office of Elementary and Secondary Education began its summer
workshop series for teachers. For local teachers, eight courses ranging from
architecture to insects were offered, and for teachers from the rest of the
country, a national seminar on the teaching of writing through the use of
museums.

June 10-12

Symposium: The Smithsonian Environmental Research Center sponsored a symposium
on "Watershed Research Perspectives."

June 12

Exhibition: The Woven and Graphic Art of Anni Albers, the first major
exhibition of both Albers' graphics and textiles, opened at the Renwick Gallery
on the artist's 86th birthday. In a related public program, Nicholas Fox Weber,
executive director of the Josef Albers Foundation, discussed the artist and her
work.
June 12-14

Training: A training course on polymer chemistry was given by Dr. James Mark and
Dr. George Odian at the Conservation Analytical Laboratory.

June 15

Special Event: The world-renowned sitarist Ravi Shankar performed as part of the
Festival of India at the Smithsonian in a concert sponsored by the Resident
Associate Program.

June 17 and 20

International Project: The Smithsonian Institution Libraries assembled an ad hoc
American Review Committee of distinguished museologists to make final revisions
to English-language entries in the Dictionarium Museologicum, a multi-lingual
glossary of 2,066 museum-related terms, jointly produced by the International
Council of Museums and UNESCO.

June 19

Film Premiere: "The Dream Is Alive," a spectacular new large-screen film that
offers an insider's view of America's space shuttle program, opened at the Air

and Space Museum's Samuel P. Langley Theater. Footage was taken by astronauts

during three 1984 space shuttle flights.

June 21

Exhibition: The Martha Jackson Memorial Collection opened at the Museum of
American Art with 66 works selected from the 127 paintings, sculptures and works
on paper donated to the Museum of American Art by Mr. and Mrs. David Anderson.

June 21-24

Symposium: "The Canvas of Culture: Rediscovery of the Past as Adaptation for
the Future" was developed as a major Festival of India program.

June 26-30; July 3-7

Folklife Festival: The 19th annual Festival of American Folklife featured a
mela--an'Indian fair, Louisiana folklife, and the cultural traditions of
indigenous, ethnic and regional communities. Traditional foodways and dance
parties were also included.

June 27

Agreement: An agreement facilitating joint research, cooperative programs, and
exchanges of scholarships, exhibitions and publications with Malaysian
institutions was signed by Secretary Adams and Malaysian Ambassador Dato' Lew Sip
Hon on behalf of the Ministry of Culture, Youth and Sports.

ie)
wa
June 28

Exhibition: Fabled Cloth: Batik from Java's North Coast opened at the Cooper-
Hewitt Museum.

June 28

Exhibition: A living microcosm of a Maine coastal ecosystem, housed in a 3,000-
gallon aquarium simulating natural conditions, went on display at the Museum of
Natural History.

June 28

Telecast: "The Work of Peace," a half-hour film produced by the Office of
Telecommunications on the Treaty of Paris of 1783, had its national premiere on
the PBS network. The film won the Silver Medal of the International Film and TV
Festival of N.Y., the Silver Award at the Houston International Film Festival, a
CINE Golden Eagle and second place in the 1985 National Educational Film
Festival.

June 30-July 1

Update: Giant pandas Ling-Ling and Hsing-Hsing mated four times. Subsequent
urine samples indicated a possible pregnancy.

June/July

Publication: A major five-part series on the Smithsonian Institution appeared in
the French magazine Paris Match.

July

Gift: Amber collector Jacob Brodzinsky donated to the Museum of Natural History
his collection of rare pieces of amber some 24 million years old.

July

Milestone: 18,616 public inquiries, a record monthly high, were received by the
Telephone Information Program of the Visitor Information and Associates'
Reception Center.

July

Publication: As part of the Festival of India, a 13-part series on "India Today"
was distributed by the Smithsonian News Service, a monthly feature-story service
of the Office of Public Affairs. The series, based on information gathered by
two Public Affairs writers who traveled in India for six weeks, gave a first-hand
acount of the colorful and complex past, present and future of India.

July
Publication: Communication and Non-communication by Cephalopods by Martin

Moynihan, Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, was published by Indiana
University Press as part of its series on animal communication.
July 1

Milestone: The Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory marked the 30th anniversary
of the move of its headquarters to Cambridge, Mass., and the beginning of its
research association with Harvard College Observatory.

July 1

New Project: The Directorate of International Activities was assigned overall
institutional responsibility to coordinate research and planning for the
Smithsonian commemoration of the Columbus Quincentenary in 1992.

July 2

Redesign: The design concept and prototypes for uniform exterior identification
and direction signs were completed by the Office of Exhibits Central and the
Visitor Information and Associates' Reception Center in Phase I of the
Institution-wide exterior graphic information program.

July 9

Research: The National Zoo sent a second shipment of golden lion tamarin monkeys
to Brazil's Poco das Anta Preserve. Twelve animals in two groups were released
in late July as part of the Zoo's ongoing project to save this species from
extinction.

July 11

Concert Series: The 1985 summer concert series, "Sunset Serenades," began at the
Zoo. Evening performances were held each week until August 29.

July 12

Telecast: "In Open Air: A Portrait of the American Impressionists," a half-hour

film produced by the Office of Telecommunications, was telecast nationally over
PBS.

July 17

International Protocol: The Government of Panama extended to the Smithsonian
Tropical-Research Institute the prerogatives and benefits that correspond to
International Missions operating in the Republic of Panama.

July 17

Symposium: "Ten Years After Apollo-Soyuz," held at the Air and Space Museum to
mark the anniversary of the joint U.S.-U.S.S.R. space program, brought together
leading scientists, historians and policymakers from the United States and abroad
to discuss cooperation and competition in space. The three astronauts and two
cosmonauts who participated in the joint mission were present.
iid

v2)

July 22

Appointment: Barnabus McHenry, general counsel for the Reader's Digest
Association Inc., was appointed to the Smithsonian Board of Regents.

July 23

Significant Birth: Ryma, a male giraffe, was born in the presence of hundreds of
Zoo visitors.

July 24

Visit: His Excellency Li Xiannian, president of the People's Republic of China,
toured the Air and Space Museum and viewed the new large-screen film, "The Dream
is Alive."

July 25

Exhibition: The Smithsonian Institution Libraries held a reception to open
Panorama of India, its exhibition of books, plates and manuscripts relating to
India, 1698-1898, in the Dibner Library, Special Collections Branch.

July 29

Experiment Flown: An infrared telescope (IRT) designed and built by the
Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory in cooperation with the University of
Arizona and the Marshall Space Flight Center was launched aboard Space Shuttle
Flight 51F for a week-long mission as part of Spacelab 2.

July 31

Exhibition: An exhibition entitled Igbo Arts: Community and Cosmos, the first
exhibition ever presented on the art of the Igbo people of Africa, opened at the
Museum of African Art.

August

Award: A plastic tote bag designed to promote Associate membership, created by
the Visitor Information and Associates' Reception Center in cooperation with
Smithsonian magazine, received a merit award in the 1985 Printing Industries of
American Graphic Award Competition.

August

Calendars: 1986 Smithsonian Family Learning Calendar, prepared by the
Smithsonian Office of Educational Research, was offered for sale through the
Smithsonian museums shops, bookstores and catalogs. The Office of Elementary and
Secondary Education published Museum Adventures: A Year at the Smithsonian, a
calendar advertising education programs at the Institution's. Washington museums,
the Zoo and the Smithsonian Environmental Research Center.
August 4-10

Outreach: Thirty-five high school students and eight teachers participated in an
ecology and environmental educational seminar offered by the Smithsonian Tropical
Research Institute and Panama's Ministry of Education to acquaint high school
students with local marine and terrestrial environments. The seminar was
supported by Special Education Outreach funds.

August 6

Exhibition: The Museum of American History marked the 40th anniversary of the
dropping of the first atomic bomb in Building the Bomb: Forty Years after
Hiroshima. The display related the history of the Manhattan Project through
photographs, documents and artifacts from Hiroshima and Nagasaki, as well as bomb
casings of the types of bombs dropped on the two cities.

August 9

Exhibition: History as Seen from the National Museum of American History, an
annual display of black-and-white photographs taken by Smithsonian photographers,
presented images of protests, celebrations, parades, and dedications that took
place near the museum since the beginning of 1984.

August 10

Celebration: American artist Larry Rivers and his 13th Street Band performed at
the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden in a preview concert for the 20th
anniversary of the Smithsonian Resident Associate Program.

August 19

Groundbreaking: A ceremony was held to mark the beginning of the Zoo's Olmstead
Walk reconstruction, a project to rejuvenate the main pedestrian pathway in
preparation for the Zoo's centennial in 1989.

September

Acquisition: The suit and helmet worn by Sen. Jake Garn (R-Utah), a regent of
the Smithsonian Institution, on his Discovery shuttle flight was accessioned by
the Air and Space Museum.

September

Presentation: Dr. John Falk and Lynn Dierking of the Smithsonian Office of
Educational Research presented a paper, "The Community Science Project: A New
Approach to Environmental Education," at the Third International Conference on
the Nature and Teaching of Environmental Studies and Sciences in Higher
Education, Sunderland, England.

September
Restoration: The original 1902 ceiling fresco in the South Tower room of the

Smithsonian Institution Building was uncovered during preliminary restoration
activities for the Smithsonian Information Center.
September

Space Sciences: Precise observations of Comet Giacobini-Zinner were carried out
by astronomers at the SAO-administered Oak Ridge Observatory to assist in the
historic comet rendezvous of the ICE spacecraft.

September

Technology Advancement: The Air and Space Museum announced development of a
System for Digital Display that can potentially store up to 100,000 images of
documents, maps, books, drawings and three-dimensional artifacts on optical
disks. These, in turn, can be easily indexed, searched and images reproduced or
telephoned to locations around the world. A patent was subsequently applied
for.

September

Television: The Office of Public Affairs produced two public service
announcements for national television entitled "America's Memories," with Bob
Hope narrating. The spots were close captioned for the hearing impaired and
subsequently translated into Spanish.

September 1

Research: "Hopi Social Boundary Maintenance and Exchange Relationships," a new
major research project at the Conservation Analytical Laboratory in cooperation
with a number of museums and universities, was launched by Dr. Ronald L. Bishop
and Dr. Veletta Canouts.

September 1

Acquisition: The Conservation Analytical Laboratory, with special funding
provided by the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Museum Programs, acquired
unique collection of reference materials for the analysis of textile dyes, a
collection assembled by one of the foremost international experts in this field.

September 4

Publication: The Joseph Henry Papers published the fifth volume of the papers of
the Institution's first secretary, documenting the years 1841-1843.

September 4

Workshop: In conjunction with the National Trust for Historic Preservation, the
Office of Elementary and Secondary Education presented the first in a series of
workshops on making historic sites accessible to disabled visitors.

September 5

Milestone: The first North American exhibition of antiquities from Syria opened
at the Walters Art Gallery in Baltimore, Md., organized by the Smithsonian
Institution Traveling Exhibition Service and the Directorate General of
Antiquities, Syrian Arab Republic. The exhibition, entitled Fbla to Damascus:
Art and Archaeology of Ancient Syria, consisted of 281 objects representing
10,000 years of history.
September 6

Exhibition: Painting and Calligraphy of the Ch'ing Dynasty. Culminating a
series of exhibitions, this selection of works (1644-1912) at the Freer showed
the artistic impact on Chinese painting and calligraphy of cultural, political
and economic change during China's last dynasty.

September 6

Exhibition: Private Lives of Public Figures: The Nineteenth Century Family
Print. Opened at the National Portrait Gallery.

September 7
Workshop: "Such a Pretty Face: Igbo Maiden Masks," a program for children and
adults, included creating replicas of the Igbo masks featured in the current
exhibition at the Museum of African Art.

September 9-13
Training: E. Benner Larsen, from the Conservation Training School in Copenhagen,
gave a course on "High Quality Molding and Casting of Museum Objects" at the
Conservation Analytical Laboratory.

September 11
Renovation: The Smithsonian Institution Libraries began a major renovation
project designed to strengthen the Natural History Branch Library through
physical expansion and consolidation of its collection as well as to consolidate
the central administrative and processing offices of the Libraries.

September 13
Special Event: Smithsonian Associates participating in the 7th annual
Smithsonian/Oxford Seminar attended a Convocation and reception in the Castle
before departing for England.

September 15

Exhibition: The Renaissance: Black Arts of the Twenties, an exhibition
displaying the cultural history of the New Negro Movement of the 1920s, opened at
the Anacostia Museum.

September 16

Milestone: First live television images of Comet Halley were transmitted
nationwide from the Whipple Observatory via the CBS Morning News.
We

re)

September 16

New Program: The Office of Fellowships and Grants held its first "Visiting
Associate Program," designed to increase knowledge of Smithsonian research and
opportunities in the minority academic community.

September 18

Premiere: "Huey Long," a 90-minute documentary by Ken Burns, had its premiere at
the first of the 1985-86 Frank Nelson Doubleday Lecture Series, sponsored by
Doubleday and Company, Inc., and the Museum ofeAmerican History.

September 20

Publication: The Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory and the Office of
Printing and Photographic Services published The Electronic Sky, a collection
of 40 computer-processed astronomical images for amateur astronomers, schools,
and planetaria, the most extensive collection published to date.

September 20

Special Event: Singer Karen Akers and her trio launched the 20th Anniversary
celebration of the Resident Associate Program. The anniversary festivities
continued into the fall and included performances, lectures, and receptions.

September 22

Special Event: The Minister of Culture and Sciences of Greece, Melina Mercouri,
delivered the inaugural lecture for the Resident Associate Program course,
"Today's Greece: A Modern Odyssey," a 20th Anniversary program.

September 23-27

Training: "Glass Restoration," an advanced conservation course, was conducted at
the Conservation Analytical Laboratory by Sandra Davidson of the Institute of
Archaeology in London.

September 27
Exhibition: Islamic Metalwork. This exhibition of the Freer's small but
select collection of Islamic metalwork resulted from a year-and-a-half
collaborative effort beween the technical laboratory and the curatorial staff.
September 30
Update: Construction work continued on the Smithsonian's Center for African,

Near Eastern and Asian Cultures. The roof was completed and topped with drainage
gravel and top soil in preparation for planting of the gardens.
Appendix 1

Members of the Smithsonian Council, Boards, and Commissions, September 30, 1985

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
BOARD OF REGENTS
Honorable Warren E. Burger, The Chief Justice of the United States,
ex officio, Chancellor
Honorable George H. W. Bush, The Vice President of the United States,
ex officio
Honorable E. J. (Jake) Garn, Senator from Utah
Honorable Barry Goldwater, Senator from Arizona

Honorable James R. Sasser, Senator from Tennessee

Honorable Edward P. Boland, Representative from Massachusetts
Honorable Silvio 0. Conte, Representative from Massachusetts

Honorable Norman Y. Mineta, Representative from California

Honorable David C. Acheson, Citizen of the District of Columbia
Honorable Anne L. Armstrong, Citizen of Texas

Dr. William G. Bowen, Citizen of New Jersey

Mrs. Jeannine Smith Clark, Citizen of the District of Columbia
Dr. Murray Gell-Mann, Citizen of California

Honorable A. Leon Higginbotham, Jr., Citizen of Pennsylvania
Honorable Carlisle H. Humelsine, Citizen of Virginia

Mr. Samuel C. Johnson, Citizen of Wisconsin

Mr. Barnabas McHenry, Citizen of New York
SMITHSONIAN COUNCIL

Neil Harris,
Chairman
Dore Ashton
Paul Fussell
Stephen Jay Gould
Christian C. Hohenlohe
Thomas P. Hughes
Ada Louise Huxtable
Alice S. Ilchman
Oliver O. Jensen
Bennetta Jules-Rosette
Sherman E. Lee
Thomas E. Lovejoy
Peter R. Marler
Robert M. May
Matthew S. Meselson
Sidney W. Mintz
Arthur Mitchell
Frederick W. Mote
David F. Musto
Jaroslav J. Pelikan
Peter H. Raven
Carl E. Schorske
Emily D. T. Vermeule
Dave Warren

NATIONAL AIR AND SPACE MUSEUM ADVISORY BOARD

Robert McC.-Adams, Vice Adm. Edward H. Martin, USN
Chairman Jacqueline Ponder

Ann P. Bradley Lt. Gen. Keith A. Smith, USMC

Gen. Charles A. Gabriel, USAF Vice Adm. Benedict L. Stabile, USCG

Richard H. Jones Lt. Gen. Louis C. Wagner, Jr., USA

Donald M. Koll

NATIONAL AIR AND SPACE MUSEUM RESEARCH ADVISORY COMMITTEE

Dr. Lew Allen Dr. Robert Frosch

Professor Luis Alvarez Professor Charles Gillispie
Dr. Daniel J. Boorstin Mr. Gerald D. Griffin

Dr. John Brademas Dr. Glenn Seaborg

Professor A. Hunter Dupree Professor James Van Allen

Professor Freeman Dyson
Mrs.

Mrs.

ARCHIVES OF AMERICAN ART BOARD OF TRUSTEES

Otto L. Spaeth, Honorary Chairman
A. Alfred Taubman, Chairman
Joel S. Ehrenkranz, President

Nancy B. Wellin, Vice-President

Robert F. Shapiro, Vice-President
Irvin A. Levy, Vice-President/Treasurer
Dana M. Raymond, Secretary

Caroline R. Alexander
Eli Broad
Eli Broad
Francis de Marneffe
George C. Dillon
Ahmet M. Ertegun
Walter B. Ford II
Benjamin D. Holloway
Henry. C...Johnson:. «-
Dwight M. Kendall
Charles Kessler
Gilbert H. Kinney
Howard W. Lipman
Richard Manoogian
Alexander R. Mehran
Julienne Michel
William L. Mitchell
Muriel Kallis Newman
John Rosekrans, Jr.
David Stickelber
John A. Swearingen
Dave H. Williams
C. Bagley Wright

FOUNDING TRUSTEES
Lawrence A. Fleischman
Edsel B. Ford (deceased)

Edgar P. Richardson (deceased)

HONARARY TRUSTEES

loving ers Burton

Harold O. Love
Russell Lynes

William L. Richards

EX, OFF ICLO

Robert McC. Adams
Dean Anderson

ae

nN
ARCHIVES OF AMERICAN ART ADVISORY COMMITTEE

NORTHERN CALIFORNIA

Herschel Chipp,
Chairman

Whitney Chadwick

Wanda Corn

James Elliott

Albert Elsen

Henry Hopkins

Harvey Jones

Margaretta Lovell

Christina Orr-Cahall

Peter Selz

Marc Simpson

Donald L. Stover

Ian McKibbin White

SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA

Constance Glenn,
Chairperson
E. Maurice Bloch
Ruth Bowman
Bram Dijkstra
Beatrice Farwell
Burton Fredericksen
Richard Koshalek
Susan Larsen-Martin
Ronald Onorato
Earl A. Powell III
Michael Quick
Josine Ianco Starrels
Maurice Tuchman
Susan Walther
Richard V. West

NEW ENGLAND

Harley P. Holden,
Chairman

Winslow Ames

David S. Brooke

George H. Bumgardner

Georgia Bumgardner

Robert Cardinale

Theresa Cederholm

Carl Chairenza

Anne Farnam

Charles Ferguson

Wolfgang Freitag

Tom L. Freudenheim

Hugh Gourley

Elton W. Hall

Jonathan P. Harding

Patricia Hills

Sinclair Hitchings

John Holverson

John Kirk

Elizabeth M. Kornhauser

William Lipke

Laura C. Luckey

Paul Master-Karnik

ELToOte OFEnNeCE

James O'Gorman

Ronald Onorato

Stephen Riley

Daniel Rosenfeld

David Ross

Theodore Stebbins

Katharine Watson

Peter A. Wick

Margret Craver Withers
WASHINGTON, D.C.

Bernard Mergen,
Chairperson

Marjory Balge

Lorraine Brown

David Driskell

Alan Fern

Lois Fink

Henry Glassie

William Homer

Charles F. Hummel

Abram Lerner

Mark J. Pachter

Phoebe B. Stanton

John Vlach

John Wilmerding

NEW YORK

Milton Brown,
Chairman
Thomas N. Armstrong
John I.H. Baur
John Dobkin
Anne d'Harnoncourt
Linda S. Ferber
William Gerdts
Lloyd Goodrich
Eugene Goossen
John Howat
James Humphry, III
John A. Kouwenhoven
Abram Lerner
Russell Lynes
Porter McCray
Barbara Novak
Clive Phillpot
Jules D. Prown
Joseph T. Rankin
William B. Walker

CHICAGO DOCUMENTATION PROJECT

Dennis Adrian
Don Baum
Courtney Donnell
Robert Evans
Richard Gray
Neil Harris

Mary Jane Jacob
Katharine Lee
Archibald Motley
Franz Schulze
David Sokol

Wim de Wit

John Zukowsky

NORTHWEST ORAL HISTORY PROJECT

Don Foster

Bruce Guenther
LaMar Harrington
Marshall Hatch
Martha Kingsbury
Arlene Schnitzer
Harvey West
Virginia Wright

TEXAS

John Biggers
William Camfield
Linda Cathcart
Dominique de Menil
Louise Ferrari
Eleanor Freed
Carolyn Farb

Mimi Kilgore
Caroline Law

Betty B. Marcus
Peter C. Marzio
Margaret McDermott
Lupe Murchison
Bill Robinson

Joan Seeman Robinson
David Warren
WG

[oe]

CENTER FOR ASIAN ART
FREER GALLERY OF ART and the
ARTHUR M. SACKLER GALLERY

FREER VISITING COMMITTEE

Robert McC. Adams, Ex Officio
Norman Y. Mineta, Chairman
Laurence Sickman, Vice-Chairman
Mrs. Jackson Burke

Kwang-chih Chang

Marvin Eisenberg

Katharine Graham

Porter McCray

John M. Rosenfield

Hugh Scott

Priscilla Soucek

Richard Weatherhead

COOPER-HEWITT MUSEUM ADVISORY COUNCIL

August Heckscher,
Chairman
Karen Johnson Boyd
Amanda Burden
Rosemary Corroon
Joan K. Davidson
Joanne du Pont
Harmon H. Goldstone
Russell Lynes
Kenneth Miller
Arthur Ross
Robert Sarnoff
Marietta Tree
Robert McC. Adams,
ex officio
Dean Anderson,
ex officio

Wirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden

Sydney Lewis, Chairman
Jerome Greene, Vice Chairman
Charles Blitzer

Anne d'Harnoncourt

Thomas M. Evans

Daniel P. Moynihan

A. James Speyer

Leonard C. Yaseen

Board of Trustees

Warren E. Burger, Chief Justice of the United States, ex

OEFACTO

Robert McCormick Adams, Secretary, Smithsonian Institution,

ex officio
JOINT SPONSORING COMMITTEE FOR THE PAPERS OF JOSEPH HENRY
Frederick Seitz, Chairman

Dean W. Anderson

Whitfield J. Bell, Jr.

Robert McC. Adams

Jean R. St. Clair

Henry D. Smyth

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AFRICAN ART COMMISSION

Frank E. Moss, Chairman
Frances Humphrey Howard, Vice-Chairman
David Driskell

John A. Friede

Colbert I. King

Richard Long

Helen Neufeld

Robert Nooter

Mrs. Milton F. Rosenthal
Susan Samuels

Gustave Schindler

Michael Sonnenreich

Robert Farris Thompson
Walter Washington

Robert McC. Adams, ex officio
Dean W. Anderson, ex officio

National Museum of American Art Commission

Mrs. Nan Tucker McEvoy, Chairman Thomas C. Howe

Mrs. Hampton Barnes, Vice Chairman Mrs. Jaquelin Hume
Robert McC. Adams, Secretary, ex officio Richard Hunt

Donald Anderson R. Crosby Kemper, Jr.
Mrs. Elizabeth Brooke Blake David Lloyd Kreeger
Thomas S. Buechner Myron Kunin

James T. Demetrion, ex officio Charles Parkhurst

Mrs. Johnson Garrett David S. Purvis

Ms. Nancy Graves Mrs. John D. Rockefeiler IV
Walker Hancock Mrs. Oliver Seth

R. Philip Hanes, Jr. Mrs. John Farr Simmons
Bartlett H. Hayes, Jr. Mrs. Otto L. Spaeth
August Heckscher Mrs. Bagley Wright

Lloyd Goodrich, Commissioner Emeritus
40

National Portrait Gallery Commission

Senator Jake Garn (Chairman)

Robert O. Anderson

Barry Bingham, Sr.

Thomas Mellon Evans

Katie Louchheim

Robert L. McNeil, Jr.

Senator Robert H. Morgan

Barbara Novak

Frank Stanton

J. Carter Brown, Director, National Gallery of Art, ex officio
Warren E. Burger, Chief Justice of the United States, ex officio
Robert McC. Adams, Secretary, Smithsonian Institution, ex officio

Advisory Council for the National Museum Act

Patti Carr Black

James H. Duff

Edmund B. Gaither

Perry C. Huston

Paul H. Knappenberger

Thomas W. Leavitt (ex officio)
Roger Mandle

William N. Richards (ex officio)
Raymond H. Thompson

Bret Waller

Terri Weisser

HORTICULTURE ADVISORY COMMITTEE

James R. Buckler, Belva Jensen Carlton Lees
Chairman
Orchid Subcommittee
Edward S. Ayensu James R. Buckler Paul E. Desautels

Mary L. Ripley
Office of Museum Programs National Advisory Committee,

W. K. Kellogg Foundation Project

William N. Richards, Chairman
Jane R. Glaser, Ex officio
Janet W. Solinger, Ex officio

Richard Fiske

J. 0. Grantham

Neil Harris

Philip S. Humphrey
Watson Laetsch
Abram Lerner
William F. McSweeny
Paul Perrot

Richard H. Randall, dr.

Adelle Robertson
Susan Stitt
Michael Templeton

FOLKLIFE ADVISORY. COUNCIL.

Adrienne Kaeppler, Chairman

Roger Abrahams
Richard Bauman
Douglas Evelyn
Henry Glassie
Rayna Green

John Landston Gwaltny

Lloyd Herman
Charlotte Heth

Ivan Karp

William Merrill

Roy Seiber

John Tchen

Carlos Velez-Ibanez

Women's Council of the Smithsonian Institution

Susan Kalcik,
Chairperson
Carolyn Thompson,
Vice-Chair
Marge D'Urso,
Secretary
Ruby Davis,
Treasurer
Roberta Geier,
Historian
Sherril Berger
Delores Brown
Diane Cook Lee
Betty Beuck Derbyshire

Frances Dulay

Ann Gilstrap

Matou Goodwin
Margery Gordon
Victoria Hershiser
Julie Hoover

Susan Jewett

Susanne Owens Koenig
Christine Eason Louton
Margaret Santiago
Joanna Scherer
Katherine Sprague
Miriam Weissman
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION INTERNSHIP COUNCIL

Lauranne Nash
Co-Chairperson

Vicki Avera
Co-Chairperson

Ray Branham

Linda Chick

Pat Chieffo

Sal Cilella

Bruce Craig

Zed David
Georgina de Alba
William Deiss
Betty Beuck Derbyshire
Kathy Dorman
erica cel

Shirley Epps

Zora Felton

Joan Fram

William Gaske
Eileen Hall
Judith Houston
Harry Jackson
Gretchen Jennings
Peter Kibbee

Ann Noel
Staff Assistant
to the Council

Betty Lathern
Edward Lawson
Nancy Long

Tom Lowderbaugh
Eleanor McMillan
Carolyn Mills
Lauranne Nash

Anne Peret

Alan Postlethwaite
Jacki Rand

Magda Schremp
Marjorie Share
Gayle’ Southworth
Neil Spitzer
Barbara Strickland
Marge Turgel
Carolyn Walker
Wilcomb Washburn
Rick Yamada

Ken Yellis

WOODROW WILSON INTERNATIONAL CENTER FOR SCHOLARS
BOARD OF TRUSTEES

William J. Baroody, Jr.
Chairman

Robert A. Mosbacher,
Vice Chairman

Robert McCormick Adams

James A. Baker III

Theodore C. Barreaux
Daniel J. Boorstin
Kenneth B. Clark

Stuart

Margaret M. Heckler

Gertrude Himmelfarb
Max M. Kampelman
Jesse H. Oppenheimer
George P. Shultz
Charles Z. Wick

E. Eizenstat
WOMEN'S COMMITTEE OF THE SMITHSONIAN ASSOCIATES

Officers
Chairman:
Vice-Chairman:
Secretary: -
Asst. Secretary
Treasurer:

Asst. Treasurer

Mrs. Avery Faulkner

Mrs. Richard Cobb

Mrs. Edmund Wellington, Jr.
: Mrs. Bruce MacLaury

Mrs. William T. Hamilton

: Mrs. Clinton W. Kelly, III

Mrs. David C. Acheson
Mrs. William Alexander, II
Mrs. Daniel Antonoplos
Mrs. Albert Barclay, Jr.
Mrs. James M. Beggs

Mrs. Huntington T. Block
Mrs. Adelyn Breeskin

Mrs. George Bush

Mrs. Thomas J. Camp, Jr.
Mrs. Joseph V. Charyk
Mrs. James L. Collins, Jr.
Mrs. Thomas E. Crocker
Mrs. Stuart C. Davidson
Mrs. J. Edward Day

Mrs. Sidney J. Freedberg
Mrs. George C. Gerber
Mrs. Parker T. Hart

Mrs. Edgar W. Holtz

Mrs. Donald W. Jeffries
Mrs. George W. Jones

Mrs. Godfrey Kauffman
Mrs. Roger G. Kennedy
Mrs. Robert Koehler

Mrs. Henry Krieger

Mrs. Nevin E. Kuhl

Mrs. George Varick Lauder
Mrs. James Lehrer

Mrs. Malcolm MacIntyre

Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.

Henry Roemer McPhee
Donald Notman

Sam Nunn

Lawrence Bruce Olds
Richard R. Palmer
James R. Patton, Jr.
Charles H. Percy
Horace White Peters
Richard Powell

C. Michael Price

S. Dillon Ripley
Thomas M. Roberts

Kirby Rodriquez

Mrs.
Mrs.

Robert E. Rogers
Frederick B. Rooney

Mrs. Peter T. Russell
Mrs. John T. Sapienza
Mrs. W. Jerrold Scoutt, Jr.
Mrs. Leonard Silverstein
Mrs. Howard Smith, Jr.
Mrs. Potter Stewart

Mrs. Mark Sullivan, III
Mrs. Thomas K. Taylor
Mrs. Richard L. Thompson
Mrs. Robert D. van Roijen
Mrs. Charles Verrill

Mrs. Edwin M. Wheeler
Mrs. Philip White

Mrs. Gordon Page Williams
Mrs. Laurence I. Wood

Mrs.

Barold Snell
44

JOHN F. KENNEDY CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS

Board of Trustees

Honorary Chairmen

Mrs. Ronald Reagan
Mrs. Jimmy Carter

Mrs. Gerald R. Ford
Mrs. Richard M. Nixon
Mrs. Lyndon B. Johnson
Mrs. Aristotle Onassis

Officers

Roger L. Stevens, Chairman

Senator James A. McClure, Vice Chairman
Leonard L. Silverstein, Vice Chairman
Henry Strong, Vice Chairman

Frank Ikard, Secretary

Charlotte Woolard, Assistant Secretary
Timothy C. Coughlin, Treasurer

Harry C. McPherson, Jr., General Counsel
William Becker, Associate Counsel
Richard H. Owens, Assistant Treasurer
Henry Strong, Assistant Treasurer

Members Appointed by the President of the United
Joe L. Allbritton
Mrs. Howard H. Baker, Jr.
Marshall B Coyne

Richmond Crinkley
Trammell Crow

June Oppen Degnan

Robert Fryer

Mrs. William Lee Hanley, Jr.
Orval Hansen

Charlton Heston

Mrs. Earle Jorgensen
Melvin R. Laird

Marjorie M. Lawson

Mrs J. Willard Marriott
Dina Merrill

Joan Mondale

Gerald M. Rafshoon

Mrs. Abdraham Ribicoff
Caroline Hunt Schoellkopf
Leonard L. Silverstein
Jean Kennedy Smith

Roger B. Smith

John G. Spatuzza

Dennis Stanfill

Roger L. Stevens

Mrs. Theodore H. Strauss
Henry Strong

Jack Valenti

Lew R. Wasserman

Mes. Jack Wrather

States
a SS -Cl

Charlies: Z. Wick, Director,
United States Information Agency
Senator Edward M. Kennedy
Senator Lowell Weicker, Jr.
Senator James A. McClure
Representative Joseph M. McDade
Representative Charles Wilson
Representative Sidney R. Yates
Marion S. Barry, Mayor, ;
District of Columbia
Robert McC. Adams, Secretary
Smithsonian Institution
Daniel J. Boorstin, Librarian of Congress

J. Carter Brown, Chairman of the Commission of Fine Arts

William Penn Mott, Jr., Director,
National Park Service
F. Alexis H. Roberson, Director,
District of Columbia Department of Recreation

Honorary Trustees

Mrs. George A. Garrett
Ralph E. Becker

Mrs. Albert Lasker

Mrs. Jouett Shouse

Mrs. J. Clifford Folger
J. William Fulbright

President's Advisory Committee on the Arts

a a i SS eS

Herbert L. Hutner, California
Chairman

Margaret Archambault, Illinois
Robert D. Bain, North Dakota

Joy S. Burns, Colorado

Charles A. Camalier, Jr., Maryland
Claire Chambers, Michigan

Margot Denny, Alaska

Ophelia’ De Vore-Mitchell,New York
Mollie Faison, North Carolina
William M. Fine, New York

Richard A. Gallun, Wisconsin
Beverly J. Gosnell, South Carolina
Carl Halvorson, Oregon

Leota L. Hayes, Mississippi

T. David Higgins, West Virginia
Martin B. Hoffman, Massachusetts
Stepnen Jernigan, Oklahoma

Peggy Mallick, Wyoming

Alyne Massey, Tennessee

Julia McCabe, Delaware

Virginia McCann, New Jersey

aN

Nn
46

Millicent L. Monks, Maine
Julie P. Montgomery, Georgia
Lindsay J. Morgenthaler, Ohio
Thomas Moses, Indiana

Lillian N. Nall, Nevada

Jim Nelson, South Dakota
Jeannette Nichols, Kansas
Betty Noe, Lousiana

Kay Orr, Nebraska

John George Pappajohn, Iowa
Ann S. Penberthy, Arizona
John Piercey,Utah

Millie Pogna, New Mexico
Gladys Prescott, Florida
Chesley Pruet, Arkansas

Ann Rydalch, Idaho

Hugh Schilling, Minnesota
William Siems, Montana
Harriet Slaybaugh, Vermont
Eileen Slocum, Rhode Island
Charles C. Spalding, Hawaii
Richard. Taylor, District of Columbia
Dr. Paul Tessier, New Hampshire
James Thompson, Kentucky
Judith Thompson, Alabama

G. Robert Truex, Jr., Washington
Diane Ushinski, Pennsylvania
Dorothy Vannerson, Texas
Joseph Vetrano, Connecticut
Judith Woods, Missouri

Naomi Zeavin, Virginia

NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART BOARD OF TRUSTEES

Franklin D. Murphy, Chairman
John R. Stevenson

Carlisle H. Humelsine

Ruth Carter Stevenson

Robert H. Smith

Warren E. Burger, Chief Justice of the United States, ex
officio

George P. Shultz, Secretary of State, ex officio

James A. Baker, III, Secretary of the Treasury, ex officio

Robert McCormick Adams, Secretary, Smithsonian
Institution, ex officio
Appendix 2

Smithsonian Special Foreign Currency Program Awards
Made October 1, 1984, through September 30, 1985

ARCHEOLOGY, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND RELATED DISCIPLINES

American Institute of Indian Studies, Chicago, Illinois. Continued support
for administration; research fellowships; Center for Art and Archeology;
Archives and Research Center for Ethnomusicology; translations fellowships;
1985 elections study project.

American Research Center in Egypt, New York, New York. Operation of Center
in Cairo; continuation of the architectural and epigraphic survey of Egypt;
fellowship program in the study of archeology and related disciplines.

Arizona State University, Tempe, Arizona. A dictionary of old Marathi.

Boston University, Boston, Massachusetts. Comparative analysis of women's
work and family survival and mobility strategies.

Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland, Ohio. Archeological research
in Karnataka (India).

Catholic University of America, Washington, D. C. Ethnographic research on
Greek medicine among the Pakhtun (Pakistan).

Columbia University, New York, New York. Seminar on the Buddhist Stupa
in India and Southeast Asia.

Duke University, Durham, North Carolina. Gandhian socialism as belief and
practice (India).

Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts. Cultural and visual anthro-
pological research on Indian ritual.

Indo-U.S. Subcommission on Education and Culture, New York, New York.
Indo-American fellowship program.

Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts. India's
children:policies affecting education and work; technological style of
early neolithic pottery from Mehrgarh (Pakistan).

National Museum of American History, Washington, D. C. International
symposium on peripatetic societies (India).

San Diego State University, San Diego, California. A comparative study of
texts on the tala system of Indian music.

Social Science Research Council, New York, New York. Conference on micro-
Macro approaches to economic change in South Asia (India).

Southern Methodist University, Dallas, Texas. Prehistory of Egypt (Egypt
and India).
(o4)

State University of New York Binghampton, New York. Effects of Roman
colonial system in Serbia, Yugoslavia.

Syracuse University, Syracuse, New York. Conference on Women and the
Household (India).

University of Arizona, Tucson, Arizona. Late Quaternary geochronology
(Egypt).

University of California, Berkeley, California. Excavations at Opovo-
Bajbuk (Yugoslavia); survey for undisturbed Lower and Middle Paleolithic
activity sites with falina in India; archeological investigations at
Harappa, Pakistan.

University of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois. Seminar on cultural dimensions
of the Nationalist period (India).

University of Colorado, Colorado Springs, Colorado. International seminar
on religion and challenges of the present (India).

University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan. Conversations with a Burmese
musician.

University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, Minnesota. Architectural plans:
Nalanda and the Lodi-Mughal transition (India); intellectuals' responses to

the change in northern India (1707-1803) (Pakistan).

University of New Mexico, Albuquerque, New Mexico. Urban space in medieval
Hindu imperial capital, Vijayanagara (India).

University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. A multidisciplin-
ary study of Pakistani folk culture; Pashto verse narrative and technologi-

cal change (Pakistan).

University of Texas, Austin, Texas. Formative aspects of Burmese civiliza-
tion (Burma and India).

University of Wisconsin, Madison. Gandharan architecture survey (Pakistan).
SYSTEMATIC AND ENVIRONMENTAL BIOLOGY (INCLUDING PALEOBIOLOGY)
Cornell University, Ithaca, New York. Evolutionary ecology and systematics

of Indian Papilionidae.

Dartmouth College, Hanover, New Hampshire. Biology and ecology of fresh-
water zooplankton and larval fish (India).

Eastern Illinois University, Charleston, Illinois. Symposium on Endangered
Marine Animals and Marine Parks (India).

Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts. Later Miocene hominoids and
the origins of hominidae (Pakistan).
Herbert H. Lehman College, Bronx, New York. Lower Paleozoic trilobite
faunas of northwestern India.

Lincoln Park Zoological Gardens, Chicago, Illinois. Collection and preser-
vation of genetic material of two endangered Asian species.

Michigan State University, East Lansing, Michigan. Seminar on Wildlife
Management in Kerala, India.

Museum of Northern Arizona, Flagstaff, Arizona. Triassic vertebrates of
peninsular India.

National Museum of Natural History, Washington, D. C. Systematic studies of -

Indian bamboos.

National Zoological Park, Washington, D. C. Conservation field institute
(India); 2nd International Conference on Environmental Education; Symposium
of Endangered Marine Animals and Marine Parks (India).

Natural History Museum of Los Angeles County, Los Angeles, California.
Middle Eocene archaeocete whales from Kutch, India.

New York University, New York, New York. The snakes of Burma (Burma and
India).

Ohio State University, Columbus, Ohio. Ecology of a semitropical monsoonal
wetland in India; 2nd International Conference on Environmental Education.

Pennsylvania State University, University Park, Pennsylvania. A comparative
study on the old world and new world tiger beetle community structure
(India).

Purdue University, West Lafayette, Indiana. Systematics of rust fungi in
peninsular India.

Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, Balboa, Panama. Indian Academy of
Sciences Golden Jubilee Symposium; development of program exchange on bio-
logical diversity with Center for Ecological Studies (India); Symposium on
Endangered Marine Animals and Marine Parks (India).

University of California, Berkeley, California; Ecology and social
dynamics: a langur monkey model (India).

University of California, San Diego, California. Evolutionary and system-
atic biology of snails and their parasites (Burma and India).

University of Colorado, Boulder, Colorado. Ecological and genetic compar-
ison of Alpine rosy finches (India).

University of Kentucky, Lexington, Kentucky. Himalayan bamboos: taxonomy
and ecology (India).

University of Miami, Coral Gables, Florida. Biosaline research workshop
(Pakistan); symposium of mangroves (India).

University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan. Evolution of mating systems
and sex ratio strategies in tubuliferan trips (India); plumage patterns and
speciation in the avian genus Phylloscopus (India).

49
University of Minnesota, St. Paul, Minnesota. Genetic structure of tiger
populations (India).

University of North Dakota, Grand Forks, North Dakota. Reproductive bio-
logy and conservation of the mugger crocodile (India).

ASTROPHYSICS AND EARTH SCIENCES

American Geophysical Union, New York, New York. Regional Assembly of the
International Association of Seismology and the Earth's Interior (India).

Kent State University, Kent, Ohio. Orogenic history of the Sulaiman Range,
Pakistan.

National Museum of Natural History, Washington, D. C. Petrology and geo-
chemistry of the Dras volcanics, Himalayas (India).

Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory, Cambridge, Massachusetts. 5th
annual workshop on atomic and molecular physics (India). U. S. participa-
tion in the International Astronomical Union Congress (India).

State University of New York, Binghampton, New York. Geomorphology of the
Western Ghats, India.

University of Arizona, Tucson, Arizona. Assessing and monitoring deserti-
fication in grazing systems (Pakistan).

University of Utah, Salt Lake City, Utah. Rock magnetism of the deep crust
(Pakistan).

University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia. Geochemistry of the
Irrawaddy River, Burma.

Washington State University, Pullman, Washington. Holocene climatic
changes in the Thar Desert (India).

MUSEUM PROGRAMS

Carnegie Museum of Natural History, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. Exchange of
Museum personnel with the National Museum of Natural History, New Delhi,
India.

Duke University, Durham, North Carolina. Installation of vertebrate fossil
exhibition in Geologic Museum, Cairo, Egypt.

Indo-U.S. Subcommission on Education and Culture, New York, New York. Joint
Indo-U.S. programs.

Smithsonian Office of Folklife Programs, Washington, D. C. Festival of
India programs at Smithsonian.

Smithsonian Office of Museum Programs, Washington, D. C. Preventative care
and maintenance of collections workshop (Pakistan).
Appendix 3

National Museum Act Grants Awarded in Fiscal Year 1985

GRADUATE/PROFESSIONAL EDUCATION AND TRAINING

Columbia University, New York, New York

New York State Historical Association, Cooperstown, New York
State University of New York, Cooperstown, New York
University of Delaware, Newark, Delaware

University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan

University of Southern California, Los Angeles, California

MUSEUM INTERNSHIPS

Art Institute of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois

Bronx Zoo, Bronx, New York

Denver Art Museum, Denver, Colorado

Harvard University Herbaria, Cambridge, Massachusetts
Historic Deerfield, Deerfield, Massachusetts

Intermuseum Conservation Association, Oberlin, Ohio

Los Angeles County Museum of Art, Los Angeles, California
Missouri Botanical Garden, St. Louis, Missouri

Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, Massachusetts

New York Botanical Garden, Bronx, New York

Nortneast Document Conservation Center, Andover, Massachusetts
Philadelphia Museum of Art, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
Philadelphia Zoo, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania :
Rochester Museum and Science Center, Rochester, New York
St. Louis Zoo, St.. Louis, Missouri

University of California, Los Angeles, California
University of Kansas, Lawrence, Kansas

University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
Walker Art Gallery, Minneapolis, Minnesota

Yale Universitys New Haven, Connecticut

STIPENDS TO INDIVIDUALS FOR CONSERVATION STUDIES

Maria Fredericks, Newberry Library, Chicago, Illinois

Hana Harris, United States/International Council on Monuments and Sites,
Washington, D.C.

Richard Laub, United States/International Council on Monuments and Sites,
Washington, D.C.

Cynthia Luk, Williamstown Regional Art Conservation Laboratory,
Williamstown, Massachusetts

Barbara Mangum, Fitzwilliam Museum, Cambridge, England

Deborah Mayer, Conservation Center for Art and Historic Artifacts,
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
ie

as

Benjamin Nistal-Moret, United States/International Council on Monuments
and Sites, Washington, D.C.
Elizabeth Steele, Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York, New York

SEMINARS

Association of Science-Technology Centers, Washington, D.C.
Bucks County Historical Society, Doylestown, Pennsylvania

High Museum of Art, Atlanta, Georgia

Los Angeles County Museum of Art, Los Angeles, California
Minnesota Zoological Park, Apple Valley, Minnesota

National Trust for Historic Preservation, Washington, D.C.
Northeast Document Conservation Center, Andover, Massachusetts
Oklahoma Museums Association, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma

Old Salem, Winston-Salem, North Carolina

Ringling Museum of Art Foundation, Sarasota, Florida

Rocky Mountain Regional Conservation Center, Denver, Colorado
Southern Illinois University, Carbondale, Illinois
Williamstown Regional Art Conservation Laboratory, Williamstown,
Massachusetts

SPECIAL STUDIES AND RESEARCH

Cincinnati Zoo, Cincinnati, Ohio

City of Buenaventura, Ventura, California

Indiana University, Bloomington, Indiana

Mystic Marinelife Aquarium, Mystic, Connecticut

North Carolina State University, Raleigh, North Carolina

Old Sturbridge Village, Sturbridge, Massachusetts

San Diego Zoo, San Diego, California

Society for the Preservation of New England Antiquities, Boston,
Massachusetts

University of Louisville, Louisville, Kentucky

SERVICES TO THE FIELD

African-American Museums Association, Washington, D.C.

American Association of Museums, Washington, D.C.

American Association for State and Local History, Nashville, Tennessee
Center for Occupational Hazards, New York, New York

International Species Inventory System, Apple Valley, Minnesota
National Institute for the Conservation of Cultural Property,
Washington, D.C.

Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
Appendix 4

Academic, Research Training, and Internship Appointments in Fiscal Year 1985

ACADEMIC AND RESEARCH TRAINING APPOINTMENTS

The Smithsonian offers, through the Office of Fellowships and Grants,
research and study appointments to visiting scientists, scholars, and
students. The appointees are provided access to the Institution's
facilities, staff specialties, and reference resources. The persons

- listed by bureau, office, or division - in this Appendix began their
residencies between October 1, 1984, and September 30, 1985. Predoctoral
and Postdoctoral fellows, Graduate Student fellows, Visiting Scientists
or Scholars, and other special awards and participants in special programs
are so listed. The institution where each Fellow received, or expects
to receive, the degree, or the home university or institution of Visiting
Scientists or Scholars, and other special appointees are listed. A brief

description of the project to be undertaken at the Smithsonian is
included where appropriate. The fellow's or visitor's host bureau or
office and the Smithsonian advisor are also listed.

A)
SP)
CONSERVATION ANALYTICAL LABORATORY

Veletta Canouts, Visiting Scientist, Scuthern Illinois University. Hopi
yellow firing pottery: a structural stylistic approach to 1300-1600
A.D. social relatimships with Dr. Rmald Bishop, from September 15,
1985 through September 14, 1986.

Julian Henderson, Postdoctoral Fellow in Materials Analysis, University of

Bradford, England. Chemical and archaeological investigation of Iron
Age glass from Magdelenska Gora in northwestern Yugoslavia with Dr.

James Blackman and Mrs. Jacqueline Olin of the Laboratory and Dr.
William Melsm, Department of Mineral Sciences, from October 1,
1984 through May 31, 1985.

Cornelius van Horne, Visiting Scientist, Museum voor Land- en Volkenkunde.
Research and study of ethnographic and furniture conservatim prac-
tices with Mr. Mark Williams, Furniture Cmservator, and Ms. Carolyn
Rose, Anthropology Cmservation Laboratory, National Museum of Natural
History, from October 1, 1984 through September 30, 1985.

COOPER-HEWITT MUSEUM

Suzanne Tise, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Pittsburgh. Le Moderne: French
design and architecture 1910-1935, the Therese Bonney Collection--C oper-
Hewitt Museum with Mr. David McFadden, from August i, 1985 through
July 31, 1986.

FREER GALLERY OF ART

Tadashi Kobayashi, Harold P. Stern Visiting Scholar, Gckushuin University.

Study of the Ukiyo-e collection with Ms. Ann Yonemura, from July 17,
1985 through August 23, 1985.

Raman Srinivasan, Graduate Student Fellow, University of Pennsylvania. A
scientific and historical investigation of Aranmulla mirrors: a case
study in metal technology with Ms. Martha Goodway, of the Museum Support
Center, and Mr. Tam Chase, Freer Gallery of Art, from May 27, 1985 through
June 7, 1985, August 19, 1985 through September 13, 1985 and December 16,
1985 through January 10, 1986.

Richard Wilsm, Poatdoctoral Fellow, University of Kansas. Problems in con-
noisseurship: ceramics and paintings attributed to Ogata Kenzan

(1663-1743) in the Freer Gallery of Art with Ms. Lauise Cart, from June 1,
1985 through May 31, 1986.
HIRSHHORN MUSEUM AND SCULPTURE GARDEN

Michael Oren, Visiting Scholar, University of Massachusetts. Catemporary
American avante-garde groups: some historical perspectives with Ms.
Lynda Hartigan, Department of Painting and Sculpture, from
September 15, 1985 through September 14, 1986.

Rebecca Zurier, Predoctoral Fellow, Yale University. The graphic roots of
the Ashcan School with Dr. Judith Zilezer, Department of Painting and
Sculpture, from February 1, 1985 through January 31, 1986.

JOSEPH HENRY PAPERS

James Fleming, Pastdoctoral Fellow, Princeton University. The Smiths mian

meteorological project, 1847-1874 with Dr. Nathan Reingold, from
September 15, 1985 through September 14, 1986.

Steven Kottsy, National Historical Publications and Records Canmissim
Fellow, University of Cincinnati. The Papers of Joseph Henry
with Dr. Mare Rothenberg, from September 15, 1985 through June 30,
1986.

NATIONAL AIR AND SPACE MUSEUM

Ronald Brashear, Graduate Student Fellow, Jchns Hopkins University. The fine
guidance system of the Hubble Space telesape with Dr. David Devorkin,
Department of Space Science and Exploration, from June 3, 1985 through
August 9, 1985.

Peter Brooks, International Fellow, London University. History of the autogiro
and its contributio to the later development of the helicopter with Mr.
Ram Davies, Department of Aeronautics, from May 1, 1985 through
April 30, 1986.

Leo Goldberg, Martin Marietta Chair in Space History, University,
of Arizona. History of space physics, 1934-1985 with Mr. Walter Boyne, and
staff, from April 1, 1985 through March 31, 1986.

Damald Hooper, Graduate Student Fellow, University of Missouri, Rolla. Use of
Viking Orbiter images taken with the three filters to produce some

implicatims for the composition of geologic units as mapped photo-
geologically with Dr. Ted Maxwell, Center for Earth and Planetary

Studies, from June 3, 1985 through August 9, 1985.

an"
wr
Necati Hurturk, A. Verville Predoctoral Felloq, University of Istanbul.
Turkish aviation since 1911 - a comprehensive history with Mr. Rmald
Davies, Department of Aeronautics, fran September 15, 1985 through
September 14, 1986.

Peter Jakab, Predoctoral Fellow, Rutgers University. Beyond Kitty Hawk,
the Curtiss-Wright patent suit and beginnings of American aviation
with Dr. Tam Crouch, Department of Aeronautics, from November 15, 1984
through Noember 14, 1985.

Hans J.P. von Ohain, Charles A. Lindbergh Chair, University of Goettingen.
The application of gas turbine technology to sea and land transpor-
tation and power generatim for earth and space with Mr. Walter
Boyne, Director, and staff, fron October 1, 1984 through September 30,
1985.

Charles Ziegler, Guggenheim Postdoctoral Fellow, Brandeis University. History
of the interactive development of aerospace technology and high energy
radiatio techniques with Dr. Alan Needell, from July 1, 1985 through
March 31, 1986.

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AFRICAN ART

Blythe Follett-Colo, Graduate Student Felloy, University of Cmnecticut. East
African art history, personal art as code: age, gender and women's
beaded jewelry with Dr. Roy Sieber, from June 9, 1985 through

August 9, .1985.

Barbara Frank, Predoctoral Fellow, Indiana University. Horsetrappings of the

Western Sudan: a study of style, technology and history with Dr. Roy
Sieber, from September 1, 1985 through August 31, 1986.

Elisha Renne, Graduate Student Fella, University of Minnesota. A taxonomy of
handwoven West African textile: classification by material, design
motif, weave and finish with Dr. Roy Sieber, from June 17, 1985
through August 23, 1985.

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART

Rebecca Bedell, Predoctoral Fellow, Yale University. Geolacy and American
landscape painting, 1850-1875 with Mr. William Truettner, Department of
Painting and Sculpture, from September 1, 1985 through April 30, 1986.

Janet Headley, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Maryland. The influence of
English art and aesthetics on American sculptors in Italy from 1825 to 1875
with Dr. Lois Fink, Curator, Office of Research and Fellowships, from
September 1, 1985 through August 31, 1986.
Kimberly Kroeger, Graduate Student Fellow, George Washington University. The
iconography of the barn in nineteenth century American art with
Mr. William Truettner, Department of Painting and Sculpture, from
June 3, 1985 through August 9, 1985.

Karol Lawson, Predoctoral Fellaq, University of Virginia. The American .
landscape in painting and prints, ce. 1600-1820 with Mr. William
Truettner, Department of Painting and Sculpture, from January 1, 1985
through December 31, 1985.

Richard Powell, Predoctoral Fellow, Yale University. William H. Jonson:
expressimist and artist of the blues aesthetic with Dr. Virginia
Mecklenburg, Department of Painting and Sculpture, from October 1,
1985 through September 30, 1986.

Jamtyle Ra@insm, Faculty Fellow, Emory University. Archibald Jonn Motley, Jr.

and his artistic milieu with Mr. Garnett McCoy, Archives of American Art,
from September 1, 1985 through December 31, 1985.

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AMERICAN HISTORY

Elizabeth Blackmar, Pastdoctoral Fello, Harvard University. Central Park: a

social history of public space with Mr. Carl Scheele, Department of Social
and Cultural History, from September 1, 1985 through August 31, 1986.

Daniel Bluestone, First Ladies Postdoctoral Fellowship, University of
Chicago. Promenading and public display in 19th-century American
cities with Mrs. Claudia Kidwell and Mr. Carl Scheele, Department of
Social and Cultural History, from November 1, 1984 through October 31,
1985.

Christopher Clark, Postdoctoral Fello, Harvard University. Goods and
money in American rural life, c. 1780-1870 with Drs. Gary Kulik and
Barbara Clark Smitn, Department of Social and Cultural History, from
October 1, 1984 through September 30, 1985.

Gail Cooper, Predoctoral Fellow, University of California, Santa Barbara.
Manufactured weather: a history of air mnditioing, 1906-1979 with Mr.
Robert Vogel, Department of the History of Science and Technology, from
June 1, 1985 through May 31, 1986.

Colleen Dunlavy, Predoctoral Fellow, Massachusetts Institute of Technolagy.
Variations in 19th-century technological development: a comparative study
of railway development in Prussia and the United States, 1830s-1880s with
Dr. Robert Past, Department of the History of Science and Technology, from
July 15, 1985 through July 14, 1986.
ive)

wa

Michael Ettema, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Delaware. The art of
_Materialism: the fashion system of American furniture with Ms. Rodris
Roth and Dr. Barbara Smith, Department of Social and Cultural History,
from August 1, 1985 through July 31, 1986.

Frank Greenaway, Regents Fella, Keeper of the Chemistry Department of the
Science Museum, Lmdon. Artifacts of science and technology and their
relatim to historical information with Mr. Roger Kennedy, Director,
and Dr. Jm Eklund, Department of the History of Science and
Technology, from March 1, 1985 through August 31, 1985.

Alferdteen Harrison, Faculty Fello, University of Kansas. A study of the
use of exhibits to interpret Afro-American culture during the age of
disenfranchisement with Dr. Spencer Crew, Archives Center, from
June 3, 1985 through August 16, 1985.

Christine Hoepfner, Graduate Student Fellow, University of Pennsylvania.

THE PAST AND THE PUBLIC: historical artifacts and national ideology:
the Smithsonian's flag collection as text with Dr. Gary Kulik,
Department of Social and Cultural History, from June 3, 1985 through
August 9, 1985.

Dmald Jackson, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Pennsylvania. Jan S.
Eastwood and the development of the multiple arch dam with Mr. Robert
Vogel, Department of the History of Science and Technology, from
November 1, 1984 through October 31, 1985.

Hartmut Keil, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Munich, Germany. Work
traditions, technological transfer and industrialization; German

ae

metal workers in American foundry and machine smps, 1870-1910 with

Dr. Art Molella, Department of the History of Science and Technology,
from October 15, 1984 through July 31, 1985.

Sara Leach, Graduate Student Fella, University of Virginia. The kitcnen in mn-
text: a study of the social role of the kitchen in the 17th and
18th century American house types with Dr. Barbara Smith, Department
of Social and Cultural History, from June 3, 1985 through August 9,
1985.

Barbara Little, Predoctoral Fellow, State University of New York, Buffalo.
Analysis of excavated printers’ type with Dr. Elizabeth Harris, Department
of Social and Cultural History, from June 1, 1985 through May 31, 1986.

James Livingston, Pastdoctoral Fello, Narthern Illinois University. The social
analysis of late 19th century economic history with Dr. Gary Kulik,
Department of Social and Cultural History, from September 1, 1985
through May 31, 1986.
Stephanie McCurry, Predoctoral Fellow, University of New York, Binghamton. In
defense of their world: yeoman farmers of the low-country and piedmmt of
ante=bellum Saith Carolina with Dr. Pete Daniel, Department of the History
of Science and Technology, from July 1, 1985 through June 30, 1986.

Marie McGraw, Postdoctoral Fellow, George Washington University. The structure
and organization of the free black community in Richmond, Virginia with Dr.
James Harton, Director, Afro-American Canmunities Project, from
September 1, 1985 through August 31, 1986.

Grace Palladino, Pastdoctoral Fellow, University of Pittsburgh. Anthractive
coal industry, 1840-1890 with Dr. Pete Daniel, Department of the History of
Science and Technology, from September 1, 1985 through August 31, 1986.

Katherine Preston, Predoctoral Fellow, State University of New York. Traveling
opera troupes in the United States, 1830-1875 with Dr. John Hasse,
Department of Sccial and Cultural History, from September 1, 1985
through August 31, 1986.

Alan Rauch, Graduate Student Felloy, Rutgers University. The rise of science in
the novel, 1800-1859: the source of scientific knowledge with Ms.
Ellen Wells and Dr. Barbara Melosh, Department of History of Science

and Technology, from June 24, 1985 through August 31, 1985.

Amy Stanley, Predoctoral Fellom, Yale University. The role of contractual
practice in gender, commercial, and political relations in 19th-
century America with Drs. Gary Kulik and Keith Melder, Department
of Social and Cultural History, from March 1, 1985 through
February 28, 1986.

Jonn Swann, Patdoctoral Fella, University of Wisconsin, Madison. The deve-

lopment of cooperative medical research between universities, the phar-

maceutical industry, and the federal government in America, 1895-1945 with
Dr. Ramunas Kqmdratas, Department of the History of Science and Technolagy,

from September 1, 1985 through August 31, 1986.

Preston Thayer, Graduate Student Fellow, University of Delaware. Daniels’ Planer-
nineteenth century woodworking machine with Mr. Robert Vogel,
Department of tne History of Science and Technology, from June 17,
1985 through August 23, 1985.

Herbert Lee West, Faculty Fellow, University of Minnesota. Black
minstrelsy and its impact on black culture in America with Mr. Carl
Scheele, Department of Cultural History, from June 1, 1985 through
August 31, 1985.

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY

David Adamski, Graduate Student Fellow, University of Massachusetts.
Phylogenetic study of the Nearctic Blastobasinae (Lepidopterai
Gelecnioidea) witn Dr. Dmaid Davis, Department of Entomology, from July
22, 1985 through September 27, 1985.
James Allan, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of California, Berkeley.
Volcanism in the Colima Graben, southwest Mexico with Dr. William
Melsm, Department of Mineral Sciences, from October 1, 1984 through
June 30, 1985.

Andrew Apter, Predoctoral Fellow, Yale University. Data analysis of Yoruba
Orisa worship with Dr. Ivan Karp, Department of Anthropology, from
March 1, 1985 through February 28, 1986.

Dm Baker, Patdoctoral Fellow, Pennsylvania State University. The petro-
genesis of Aleutian rocks, a petrographic and chemical study with
Dr. William Melson, Department of Mineral Sciences, from January 1,
1985 through September 30, 1985.

James S. Beard, Patdoctoral Fellow, University of California, Davis. A study
of _ore-related plutonic rocks in the Smartville Canplex and gabbro xeno-
liths from Irazu voleano, Cota Rica with Drs. S@ena Sorensm and William
Melsom, Department of Mineral Sciences, from July 1, 1985 through
June 30, 1986.

Jonathan Becker, Postdoctoral Fella, University of Flaiida. Relatimmships and
evo lution of the Limpkin (Aves, Aramidae) and the Crowned Cranes (Aves,
Gruidae, Balearicinae) with Dr. Storrs Olsm, Department of Vertebrate

Zoology, from September 1, 1985 through August 31, 1986.

Rudiger Bieler, Pastdoctoral Fellow, University of Hamburg. The gastropod

family, Mathildidae, anatomy, phylogeny, taxonomy, and its position
in the "Heterogastropds" with Dr. Richard Haubrick, Department of

Invertebrate Zology, from January 1, 1985 through December 31, 1985.

Carlos Brunet, Visiting Scientist, University of Houston. Significance of
sexual versus asexual recruitment in Acromra cervicornis with Dr. Ian
MacIntyre, from June 1, 1985 through September 30, 1985.

Maria Byrne, Visiting Scientist, University of Victoria, Canada. The

reproductive biology of Caribbean ophiuroids that brood their young
with Dr. Gardon Hendler, from May 15, 1985 througn June 30, 1985.

Jcin Carr, Graduate Student Fellow, Saquthern Illinois University, Cartondale.

Phyl qenetic analysis of a diverse radiatim of Neotropical turtles
(Rhinoclemmys) with Dr. George Zug, Department of Vertebrate Zology,

from June 3, 1985 through August 9, 1985.

Paterno Castillo, Graduate Student Fellow, Washington University. Geology,

petrology and tactonic implications of Cocos, Cocos Island, Costa Rica
with Dr. Tam Simkin, Department of Mineral Sciences, from June 10,

1985 through August 16, 1985.

60
Frederic Cardova, Faculty Fellow, Seattle University. Fifty primitive wild
people...head hunters!...dog eaters!...from the Philippine Islands...
in Seattle with Dr. Paul Taylor, Department of Anthroplogy, from
July 15, 1985 through September 15, 1985.

Corrine Ehrlich, Visiting Student, University of Maryland. Solar energy and

wave and current energy used to grow turf algae with Dr. Walter Adey,
Department of Paleobiology, from May 1, 1985 through April 30, 1986.

Brian Farrell, Visiting Student, University of Maryland. Study of leaf-beetles
(coleoptera: chrysamelidae) with Dr. Terry Erwin, Department of
Entomology, from August 1, 1985 through November 30, 1985.

Kathleen Gordon, Patdoctoral Fellow, Yale University. A test of dental

microwear analysis in reconstructing diets of prehistoric human mp pulatims

with Dr. Douglas Ubelaker, Department of Anthroplogy, from June 1, 1985
through May 31, 1986.

Xu Guirong, Senior Patdoctoral Fellow, Peking College of Geology. Upper
Permian and lowermost Triassic brachiopod fauna in South China and their
main ewlutionary events with Dr. Richard Grant, Department of
Paleobiology, from September 1, 1985 through August 31, 1986.

Kris Hardin, Predoctoral Fellow, Indiana University. Technique and the fa-

mation of conceptual systems; a West African case with Dr. Ivan Karp,
Department of Anthropology, from August 1, 1985 through July 31, 1986.

Robert Harrington, Pastdoctoral Fellow, University of California, Santa Barbara.
Morpmology, growth interactions ammg tabulate corals and stromatop roids
with Dr. Ian MacIntyre, Department of Paleobiology, from September 1, 1985
through August 31, 1986.

Roger Heitzman, Postdoctoral Felloy, University of Maryland. Congruence of
larval and adult phylqenies of the Ennanini with Dr. Jcmn Burns,
Department of Entomology, from January 1, 1985 through December 31,
1985.

Jonn Haniak, Pa@tdoctoral Fellow, Brandeis University. Rastafari and the
Afro-Jamaican tradition with Dr. William Merrill, Department of
Anthropology, from November 1, 1984 through October 31, 1985.

Seott Ishman, Graduate Student Fellow, Ohio State University. Systematic and
morpnometric investigation of high latitude late cenomic fmqmaminifera
to determine bi-polarity with Dr. Martin Buzas, Department of
Paleobiology, from June 17, 1985 through August 23, 1985.

Emmet Judziewiez, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Wisconsin, Madison. The

search for an out-group for Pharus: the anatomy and morphology of the her-
baceous bamboc tribes Anamochiceae, Streptogyneae and Phareae with Dr.

Thomas Soderstrom, Department of Botany, from September 1, 1985 through
August 31, 1986.

61
Jan Kmlneyer, Visiting Scientist, University of North Carolina. Marine
fungi at Carrie Bow and Twin Cays with Dr. Klaus Ruetzler, Department
of Invertebrate Zoolcy, from April 1, 1985 through April 30, 1985.

Brian Lapointe, Visiting Scientist, University of Sqith Florida. A com-
parison of nutrient status and physiological state of cacroalgae from
a Caribbean barrier reef and mangrove ecosystem with Dr. Mark Littler,
Department of Botany, from April 1, 1985 through April 30, 1985.

Diana L. Lipscomb, Visiting Scientist, George Washington University.
Mangrove protozans with Dr. Klaus Ruetzler, Department of Invertebrate
Zoology, from July 1, 1985 through July 31, 1985.

James S. Miller, Postdoctoral Fello, Ca@nell University. A phylogenetic analy-
sis of the dioptive genera (Lepidoptera: Notodontidae) with Dr. Robert
Robbins, Department of Entomology, from September 1, 1985 through
August 31, 1986.

Oscar Mmterrosa, Graduate Student Fellow, University of Puerto Rico.
Shrimp from deep-water traps off the south and west coasts of Puerto
Rico with Dr. Fenner Chace, Department of Invertebrate Zoology, from
July 15, 1985 through September 20, 1985.

Beth Narden, Predoctoral Fellav, University of Maryland. Taxonomic
discrimination and biology of Ceratina (Dupla species group) with
Dr. Rmald McGinley, Department of Entomology, from November 15, 1984
through November 14, 1985.

Lisa Osterman, Pastdoctoral Fella, University of Colorado, Boulder.
Pleistocene and holceene foraminiferal assemblages in deep and shallow
water arctic marine environments with Dr. Martin Buzas, Department of
Paleobiology, from September 1, 1985 through August 31, 1986.

Esther Peters, Pastdoctoral Fella, University of Rmwde Island. The value of
histolqical characters as taxonomic tools for distinguishing species of
Dichocoenia (Zoantharia, Scleractinia) with Dr. Stephen Cairns, Department
of Invertebrate Zoology, from July 1, 1985 through June 30, 1986.

Mary Lucas Powell, Postdoctoral Fellow, Narthwestern University.
Synchronic and diachronic patterns of health and disease in
Mississippian populatims from the Macon Plateau and the Georgia coast
with Dr. Dmald Ortner, Department of Anthropology, from November 1,
1984 through October 31, 1985.

Michael Price, Pastdoctoral Fellow, University of Michigan. Development of
a new taxonamic system for pteridophytes and reclassificatim and
rearrangement of Smithsonian pteridophyte collectims in accordance
With this new system with Dr. David Lellinger, Department of Botany,
from February 1, 1985 through January 31, 1986.
David Reid, Pastdoctoral Fella, James Cook University, Australia. The
systematics of the genera Bembecium and Peasiella and an investigatim
of phylogeny within the family Littorinidae with Drs. Ja@eph Raewater
and Richard Haubrick, Department of Invertebrate Zoology, from
February 1, 1985 through January 31, 1986.

Susanne Renner, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Hamburg. Systematics and
biogeography of Macairea (Melastomataceas) with Dr. Jchn Wurdack,
Department of Botany, from July 1, 1985 through June 30, 1986.

Jean-Laip Rausselot, Patdoctoral Fella, University of Munich, Germany.
Material culture of the Mackenzie Eskimo at contact time with Dr.
William Fitzhugh, Department of Anthropology, from October 1, 1984
through September 30, 1985.

David Russell, Visiting Scientist, George Washington University. Syllid
. polychaetes from the mangrove environment with Dr. Kristian Fauchnald,
Department of Invertebrate Zoology, from June 1, 1985 through
September 30, 1985.

Jurgen Sieg, Senior Patdoctoral Fellm, Universitiat Osnabruck, Vechta.
Systematics and phylogenetic biogeography of Antarctic Tanaidacea with Dr.
Thomas Bowman, Department of Invertebrate Zoology, from August 1, 1985
through July 31, 1986.

Petra Sierwald, Patdoctoral Fell, University of Hamburg. Systematic pmsitim

of the spider genus Thalassius SIMON, 1885, within the pisauridae and defi-

nitiom of mmophyletie units within the family with Dr. Jmathan Ccddington
Department of Entomolagy, from June 1, 1985 through May 31, 1986.

David Stoddart, Regents Fellow, Cambridge University. Biogeography of
coral reefs and islands with Dr. Richard Fiske, Director, and staff,
from March 1, 1985 through November 30, 1985.

C.R. Suresh, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Calicut, India. A reinves-
tigation of the plants of Ha@tus Malabaricus with Dr. Dan Niwlson,
Department of Botany, from October 1, 1984 through September 30,
1985.

James Thomas, Visiting Scientist, Newfound Hartor Marine Institute.
Diel Migration of Amphimds from specific coral reef substrates,
Carrie Pow Cay, Belize with Dr. J.L. Barnard, Department of

Invertebrate Zoolagy, from May 1, 1985 through August 31, 1985.

Shirley Turner, Postdoctoral Fellow, Arigna State University. Structural study
of manganese oxides by single-crystal x-ray diffraction, microprobe analy-
sis and HRTEM with Dr. Jeffrey Past, Department of Mineral Sciences, from
July 1, 1985 through June 30, 1986.

’
64

Robert Voss, Visiting Scientist, University of Michigan. Phylqenetic signifi-
cance of male reproductive anatomy in squirrels with Dr. Richard
Thorington, Department of Vertebrate Zology, from February 1, 1985
through January 31, 1986.

David Wahl, Patdoctoral Fellow, University of Kansas. The phylogeny classifi-
cation of P@aiantinae (Hymenoptera: Ichneummidae) with emphasis upon the
larvae with Dr. Rmald McGinley, Department of Entomology, from August 15,
1985 through August 14, 1986.

Charles M. Wahle, Visiting Scientist, University of Maryland. Octomral
biology study at Carrie Bow Cay and Twin Cays with Dr. Klaus Ruetzler,
Department of Invertebrate Zoology, from June 1, 1985 through July 31,
1985.

Peter Wainright, Visiting Scientist, University of Chicago. Hogfish
feeding with Dr. Klaus Ruetzler, Department of Invertebrate Zolay,
from July 1, 1985 through July 31, 1985.

Wirt Wills, Patdoctoral Fellow, University of Michigan. Early village om-
munities in prehistoric American southwest with Drs. Dennis Stanford and
William Merrill, Department of Anthropology, from September 1, 1985
through August 31, 1986.

NATIONAL PORTRAIT GALLERY

Elizabeth Brame, Predoctoral Fellm, University of Nath Carolina-Chapel Hill.

Portraits of virtue and genius: the hall of fame and civic prtraiture in

the early American republic, 1780-1820 with Dr. Ellen Miles, Department of

Paintings and Sculpture, from September 1, 1985 through August 31, 1986.

Patricia Jonnston, Predoctoral Fellow, Boston University. The work of
Edward Steichen and its context in prtrait, advertising and fashion
photography of the period 1914 to 1938 with Mr. Alan Fern, Director,
and Mr. William Stapp, Curatorial Department, from March 1, 1985
through February 28, 1986.

Debtorah.Van Buren, Predoctoral Fellow, George Washington University. The Cornish
colony: the study of an artists' colmy 1885-1916 with Dr. Lillian Miller,
Charles Willso Peale Papers, from September 1, 1985 through August
3a, 1986.

Alan Wallach, Senior Patdoctoral Fella, Columbia University. Thomas Cole's
patronage with Dr. Lillian Miller, Charles Willson Peale Papers, from
September 1, 1985 through August 31, 1986.
NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK

Mary Allen, Predoctoral Fellow, Michigan State University. Nutritional
aspects of insectivory with Dr. Dale Marcellini, Department of
Herpetology, and Dr. Richard Mmtali, Department of Pathology, from
January 1, 1985 through December 31, 1985.

Lee Boyd, Graduate Student Fellow, Carnell University. Reproductive behavior of

asiatic wild horses (Equus Przewalskii) with Dr. Christen Wemmer,
Department of Cmservation, from June 3, 1985 through August 9, 1985.

Susan D. Crissey, Postdoctoral Fellm, University of Maryland. The relatimsnip
of reproductio energetics to climatic origin in deer with Dr. Olav Oftedal,
Office of Zoological Research, from September 1, 1985 through
August 31, 1986.

Lisa Forman, Pastdoctoral Fellow, University of California, Berkeley. Molecular
genetic analysis of captive and natural populations of Leontopithecus with
Dr. Katherine Ralls, Office of Zoological Research, from July 15, 1985
through July 14, 1986.-

Georg Sechwede, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Bielefeld. Influence of a high
and low quality habitat on the socicecology of two white-tailed deer
populations with Dr. Christen Wemmer, Department of Cmservatim, and
Dr. John Seidensticker, Department of Mammalogy, from July 1, 1985
through June 30, 1986.

Nellie Tsipura, Graduate Student Fellaq, Washington State University. Similarity
of song in neighboring versus non-neighboring Kentucky Warblers with
Dr. Eugene Marton, Department of Cmservatim, from May 13, 1985
through July 22, 1985.

SMITHSONIAN ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY

Mare Aaronson, Visiting Scientist, University of Arimna. Extragalactic
distance scale, the red stellar mntent of nearby galaxies and the
dynamics of nearby dwarf spheriodals with Dr. David Latham, from
May 31, 1985 through August 2, 1985.

Luis Aguilar-Chiu, Patdoctoral Fellqm, University of California, Berkeley.
Dynamics of stellar and galactic systems with Dr. Irwin Shapiro, Director,
and staff, from September 1, 1985 through August 31, 1986.

Joon Biretta, Postdoctoral Fellow, California Institute of Technology.
Costruction of a unified model for flat radio spectrum quasars and ewlu-
tion and proper motion of large seale radio with Dr. Irwin Shapiro,
Director, and staff, from September 1, 1985 through August 31, 1986.
66

~

Eric Bloemhof, Patdoctoral Fellow, University of Califaqnia.
Observational and experimental studies in optical and infrared
astronomy and radio and geoastronomy with Dr. Irwin Shapiro, Director,
and staff, from October 1, 1984 through September 30, 1986.

Richard Burg, Predoctoral Fellow, Harvard University. Optical and infrared
astronomy with Dr. Irwin Shapiro and staff, from September 1, 1985
through August 31, 1986.

Giles Chapman, Visiting Scientist, Harvard University. Structure and dynamics

of highly-flattened clusters of galaxies with Dr. Margaret Geller,
from July 1, 1985 through December 31, 1985.

Ronald Eastman, Predoctoral Fella, University of Michigan. Analysis of a
series of optical spectra of the Type II supernova 1980k Th NGC 6946
with Dr. George Rybicki, from September 1, 1985 through August 31,
1986.

Gary Fuller, Predoctoral Fellow, University of California, Berkeley.
Observational study of physical and chemical processes in the inter-
stellar medium with Dr. Phil Myers, from September 1, 1985 through
August 31, 1986.

Cheng Fu-Zhen, Visiting Scientist, University of Science and Technology of
China-Anhui. Active galactic nuclei with Dr. Harvey Tananbaum, from
March 12, 1985 through May 10, 1985.

Michael Garcia, Educatim Fellow, Harvard University. Development of the

EXITE detector and a study of galactic bulge x-ray sourced variability with
Dr. Stephen Murray, from September 1, 1985 through August 31, 1987.

Kenneth Gibbs, Visiting Scientist, University of Arizona. Optical and
infrared astronomy with Dr. Trewr Weekes, from May 1, 1985 through
August 31, 1985.

Gerard Gillanders, Visiting Student, University Callege, Dublin. Detectim

of ultra high energy gamma rays from Cygnus X-3 with Dr. Trewr Weekes,
from August 1, 1985 through December 31, 1985.

S.P. Goldman, Visiting Scientist, The University of Western Ontario.
Calculation of forbidden transitimms in molecular systems with Dr.
Alexander Dalgarno, from May 13, 1985 through August 9, 1985.

Alan G. Gregory, Visiting Scientist, University of Adelaide, Australia.
FLWO air shower array with Dr. Trevor Weekes, from September 10, 1985
through December 10, 1985.
Patrick Hartigan, Visiting Student, University of Arizona. Interactim of
the collimated flow from a young star exciting the HH djects witn the
clad fran which the star formed with Drs. John Raymamd and Lee
Hartmann, fran May 27, 1985 through August 18, 1985.

Thomas W. Hartquist, Visiting Scientist, Max-Planck Institut fur
Extraterrestrische Physik. Chemistry of magnetohydrodynamic shocks
with Dr. Alexander Dalgarno, from May 6, 1985 through June 17, 1985.

Lawrence Krauss, Visiting Scientist, Harvard University. Application of
elementary particle physics to astropnysics with Dr. George Rybicki,
from June 1, 1985 through July 14, 1985.

Valerie de Lapparent, Predoctoral Fellow, Universite Pans. A study of the
Share-Wirtaren counts and analysis of a galaxy redshift survey witn
Dr. Margaret Geller, from September 1, 1985 through August 31, 1986.

Jam Marcaide, Visiting Scientist, Max-Planck Institut fur Radioastronomie.
Interpretation of very lmg baseline interferometry observatims of
quasars with Dr. Irwin Shapiro, Director, and staff, from May 18, 1985
through June 18, 1985.

Laurence A. Marschall, Visiting Scientist, Gettysburg College. Study of
the internal velocity fields of yung open clusters with Dr. David
Latham, from June 10, 1985 through August 2, 1985.

Tsevi Maseh, Visiting Scientist, Tel Aviv University. Spectroscopic survey
to detect extrasolar clae planets with Dr. David Latham, from
July 1, 1985 through June 30, 1986.

Lawrence Molnar, Postdoctoral Fellow, Harvard University. Cores of active
galactic nuclei (AGNs) with Dr. Irwin Shapiro, Director, and staff
from April 1, 1985 through August 31, 1987.

Jeremiah Ostriker, Regents Fellow, Princeton University. The structure
and stability of rotating stars with Dr. Irwin Shapiro, Director,
and staff, from January 1, 1985 through June 30, 1985.

Rutn Peterson, Visiting Scientist, Harvard University. Globular clusters and
the abundances of the chemical elements in very old stars with Dr. David
Latham, from June 1, 1985 through May 31, 1986.

Martin Rees, Regents Fellow, Cambridge University. Radio and X-ray astro-
nany and observational cosmology with Dr. Irwin Shapiro, Director,
and staff, from February 21 to April 21, 1985, February 21 to April 21,
1986 and February 21 through April 21, 1987.
a)

Stephen Shectman, Visiting Scientist, Mount Wilson and Las Campanas
Observatories. Large scale structure of the universe with Dr. David
Latham, from July 1, 1985 through August 23, 1985.

Amiel Sternberg, Predoctoral Fellow, Columbia University. Infrared and
ultraviolet observations of molecular hydrogen and of im-molecule
chemistry in interstellar gas clouds with Dr. Alexander Dalgarno, from
September 1, 1985 through August 31, 1986.

Wao Mo Sven, Visiting Scientist, California Institute of Technology.
Problems involving cosmic strings and axions with Dr. George Field,
from September 1, 1985 through November 1, 1985.

Martin Woodard, Visiting Scientist, University of California, San Diem@..
Relations between solar-cycle activity and low-degree solar five-minute
oscillations with Dr. R.W. Noyes, from June 16, 1985 through August 7,
1985.

SMITHSONIAN ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH CENTER

Dennis Byrne, Pastdoctoral Fellow, University of Kansas. Messenger RNA from

Chlamydomonas reinhardtii thylakoid-tund ritosames with Dr. Maurice
Margulies, Rockville, from June 1, 1985 through May 31, 1986.

Bartolameo Lercari, Visiting Scientist, University of Pisa, Italy. The induc-

tion of bulbing in onions by light involving a number of action spectra at

different times during the photoperiod with Dr. Gerald Deitzer, Rockville,
from May 6, 1985 through November 8, 1985.

Erik Scully, Visiting Scientist, Towsm State University. Patterns of growth and
reproduction observed in populations of the intertidal hermit crab, Pagurus
logicarpus with Dr. Anson Hines, Edgewater, from August 15, 1985
through August 14, 1986.

Jacob Weiner, Patdoctoral Fellow, University of Oreg@n. Size hierarchies
and interspecific mmpetitim in weed populatios with Dr. Dennis
Whigham, Edgewater, from January 1, 1985 through December 31, 1985.

SMITHSONIAN TROPICAL RESEARCH INSTITUTE

Thomas Aide, Predoctoral Fellm, University of Utah. The interactims of leaf

phenology and insect herbiwry with Dr. Egbert Leigh, from November 1, 1985
to March 31, 1986 and November 1, 1986 through March 31, 1987.

Brian Bock, Patdoctoral Fellow, University of Tennessee, Knoxville. The
effects of gene flow barriers on the differentiatim of Anolis limifrons

sub-po pulations in Panama with Dr. Joseph Wright, from July 15, 1985
through July 14, 1986.
Jae Chun Choe, Graduate Student Fellow, Harvard University. Dispersal and social
organization in Zoraptera with Dr. William Eberhard, from May 26, 1985
through August 2, 1985.

Philip Devries, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Texas, Austin. Mutualistic

interactions between ants, plants, parasitoids and two species of riodinid
butterflies with Dr. Dmald Windsor, from September 1, 1985 through

August 31, 1986.

Damald Feener, Pastdoctoral Fella, University of Texas. Defense strate-
gies against competitors, predators and parasites in a tropical ant
community with Dr. Joseph Wright, from October 1, 1984 through
September 30, 1985.

Edward Herre, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Iqa. The implications of
reproductive allocation patterns for the coewlution of figs and fig plli-
nating wasps with Drs. Egbert Leigh and Dmald Windsor, from September 1,
1985 through August 31, 1986.

James Marden, Graduate Student Fella, University of Vermont. Thermoregulatory

physiology and behavior of large tropical insects with Dr. David
Raubik, from June 3, 1985 through August 9, 1985.

Keith McGuinness, Patdoctoral Fella, University of Sydney, Australia.
Experimental analysis of disturbance and other factors structuring
communities on reef plates in the Caribbean with Dr. Jan Cubit,
from November 1, 1984 through October 31, 1985.

Robert Richmond, Patdoctoral Fellow, State University of New York, Stony Brook.
The ecology, physialogy and population biology of the reef-building wral
Pocillomora damicornis in the Eastern Pacific with Dr. Jeremy Jackson, from
June 1, 1985 through January 31, 1986.

Kyle Summers, Graduate Student Fellow, University of Michigan. Mating and parental

behavior in the green mison-arrow frog, Dendrobates auratus with Dr.
Stanley Rand, from June 3, 1985 through August 9, 1985.

Jess Zimmerman, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Utan. Sex change in Catasetum
viridiflavum with Dr. Joseph Wright, from June 1, 1985 to November 30, 1985
and June 1, 1986 through November 30, 1986.
FO

ACADEMIC, RESEARCH TRAINING, INTERNSHIPS, AND OTHER STUDENT APPOINTMENTS

The Smithsonian offers internship and other appointments to visiting
graduate and undergraduate students. The persons - listed by bureau,
office, or division - in this Appendix began their appointments between
October 1, 1984, and September 30, 1985. Holders of special awards

and participants in special programs are so listed. The institutions
attended, the title or a brief description of the project undertaken,
where appropriate, and the name of the Smithsonian supervisor are

given for each intern. The names listed below have been supplied by
the individual bureaus, offices, and divisions of the Smithsonian
Institution. Duplication of names listed above has not been corrected.

ACADEMIC AND RESEARCH TRAINING APPOINTMENTS
NATIONAL AIR AND SPACE MUSEUM

Peter W. Brooks, International Fellow. History of the autogiro and its
contribution to the later development of the helicopter, with

Mr. R. E. G. Davies, Department of Aeronautics, from May 1, 1985, through
April 30, 1986.

Peter L. Doorn, Planetary Geology Undergraduate Research Program.
Analysis of structural features on Mars, with Dr. Ted Maxwell, Center for
Earth and Planetary Studies, from June 3 through July 26, 1985.

Leo Goldberg, the Martin Marietta Chair in Space History. Compile
memoirs of his career as an astronomer, administrator, and participant in
NASA's space science program, with Dr. D. H. DeVorkin, Department of

Space Science and Exploration, from April 1, 1985, through March 31, 1986€.

Adam L. Gruen, Guggenheim Predoctoral Fellow. United States civilian
Space station concepts: a case study of the nature of technological
change, 1958-1983, with Ms. Linda Ezell, Department of Space Science and
Exploration, from September 1, 1984, through August 31, 1985.

Donald M. Hooper, Smithsonian Graduate Student Fellow. Investigations
of Mars stratigraphy using Viking Orbiter data, with Dr. Ted Maxwell,
Center for Earth and Planetary Studies, from June 3 through August 9,
L985 i,

Kivane Hurturk, Alfred Verville Fellow. Turkish aviation since 1911:
a comprehensive history, with Mr. R. E. G. Davies, Department of
Aeronautics, from September 15, 1985, through September 14, 1986.

Peter L. Jakab, Smithsonian Graduate Student Fellow. Ph.D.
dissertation on early American aviation and the integration of the
airplane into American life, with Dr. Tom Crouch, Department of
Aeronautics, from November 15, 1984, through November 14, 1985.

Richard K. Smith, Alfred Verville Fellow. The new American airplane of

1934, with Mr. R. E. G. Davies, Department of Aeronautics, from September
17, 1984, through September 16, 1985.
Joseph N. Tatarewicz, Guggenheim Postdoctoral Fellow, The role of
planetary astronomers in developing the Space Telescope, with Dr. Allan
Needell, Department of Space Science and Exploration, from December Dy,
1983, through December 14, 1984.

Hans J. P. von Ohain, the Charles A. Lindbergh Chair of Aerospace
History. Application of gas turbine technology to sea and land
transportation and power generation for earth and space, with Mr. E. T.
Wooldridge, Department of Aeronautics, from October l, 1984, through
September 30, 1985.

Charles A. Ziegler, Guggenheim Predoctoral Fellow. History of the
interactive development of aerospace technology and high energy

measurement techniques, with Dr. Allan Needell, Department of Space
Science and Exploration, from July 1, 1985, through March 31, 1986.

INTERNSHIP AND OTHER STUDENT APPOINTMENTS
NATIONAL AIR AND SPACE MUSEUM

Edward Arnold, B.S. candidate, George Mason University, with Dr.
Patricia Jacobberger, Center for Earth and Planetary Studies, from
October 1 through December 31, 1984.

Robert Berkowitz, B.S. candidate, Carnegie-Mellon University, with Dr.
David DeVorkin, Department of Space Science and Exploration, from
September 18 through December 17, 1985.

Tracy Bessette, B.S. candidate, University of Delaware, with Mr. Thomas
Callen, Albert Einstein Planetarium, September 13 through December 20,
1985.

Kelly Doucet, B.S. candidate, Gallaudet College, with Mr. Dale Hrabak,
Photography Office, from January 23 through May 17, 1985.

Ronald Duncan, M.A. candidate, University of Idaho, with Dr. Patricia
Jacobberger, Center for Earth and Planetary Studies, from June 3 through
August 2, 1985.

Martin Fetherston, B.S. candidate, College of the Holy Cross, with Dr.
David DeVorkin, Department of Space Science and Exploration, from
January 14 through April 30, 1985.

Leslie Gerber, B.A. candidate, University of Maryland, with Ms. Barbara
Brennan, Exhibits Division, from June 10 through August 16, 1985,

Tom Gilliam, M.A. candidate, Wright State University, with Ms. Robin
Schroffel, Office of the Registrar, from June 17 through August 23, 1985.

Beatrice Locher, B.A. candidate, Boston College, with Ms. Holly Haynes,
Office of Public Affairs and Museum Services, from June 10 through
August 16, 1985.

Timothy Noakes, B.S. candidate, Notre Dame University, with Dr. David
DeVorkin, Department of Space Science and Exploration, from June 10
through August 16, 1985.
Alicia Rosenfeld, B.A. candidate, The American University, with Ms.
Holly Haynes, Office of Public Affairs and Museum Services, from March 4
through May 3, 1985.

Mark Taylor, B.S. candidate, George Mason University, with Ms. Patricia
Woodside, Exhibits Division, from June 10 through August 16, 1985.

Ashley Tidey, B.A. caradidate, Williams College, with Miss Helen Claire
McMahon, Office of Aerospace Education and Publications, from June 10
through August 9, 1985.

Curtis Utz, M.A. candidate, University of Maryland, with Dr. Tom
Crouch, Department of Aeronautics, from June 10 through August 16, 1985.

Eric Wichman, B.S. candidate, University of Maryland, with Ms. Mary
Valdivia, Exhibits Division, from July 1 through September 6, 1985.

SMITHSONIAN ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH CENTER

DENNIS BYRNE, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Kansas. Messenger RNA from
Chlamydomonas reinhardtii thylakoid-bound ribosomes, with Dr. Maurice
Margulies, from June 1, 1985 through May 31, 1986.

SILVIA FROSCH, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Geneva, Geneva,
Switzerland. Leaf gradients and circadian rhuthms in photosunthetic capacitu
in relation to photoperiodic induction in long-day plants, with Dr. Gerald
Deitzer, from September 1, 1984 through August 27, 1985.

ELIEZER GOLDSCHMIDT, Visiting Scientist, Hebrew University of Jerusalen,
Rehovot, Israel. Investigation into the chemical control of flowering in
Pharbitis nil, with Dr. Charles Cleland, from January 1, 1985 through March
Sih) 985i.

MICHAEL KRONES, Visiting Student, University of Maryland, Automatic control
sustems testing the effects of dunamic changes in light qualitu on plant
growth, with Dr. John Sager, from August 1, 1985 through May 31, 1986.
BARTOLOMEO LERCARI, Visiting Scientist, University of Pisa, Pisa, Italy.
Phutochrome action in the photoperiodic regulation of bulbing in onion,
Allium.cepa L., with Dr. Gerald Deitzer, from May 6, 1985 through November 8,
£985).

MAMORU MIMURO, Visiting Scientist, University of Tokyo. Terminal pigment in
a major light harvesting photosynthetic pigment complex (Phuccbilisomes),
with Dr. Elisabeth Gantt, from April 1, 1985 through September 30, 1985.
INGRID OLMSTED, Visiting Scholar, Centro de Investigaciones de Quintana Roo,
Mexico. Vegetational analysis for Sian Ka'an Reserve, with Dr. Dennis
Whigham, from June 24, 1985 though July 30, 1985.

ERIC SCULLY, Postdoctoral Fellow, Towson State University. Latitudinal
variation in life history parameters of the hermit crab, Pagurus longicarpus,
with Dr. Anson Hines, from August 15, 1985 through August 14, 1986.

TIMOTHY SPIRA, Visiting Scholar, Georgia Southern College. Reproductive
aspects of Hibiscus palustris, with Dr. Dennis Whigham from June 1, 1985
through August 31, 1985.
FREDRICKA SPONGA, Visiting Scientist, University of Pisa, Pisa, Italy. Blue
light "HIR" in anthocyanin production: cryptochrome or phytochrome, with Dr.
GERALD DEITZER, from June 24, 1985 through July 19, 1985 and September 9, 1985
through November 30, 1985.

LISA WAGNER, Georgia Southern College. Biomass allocation of species of

Poa, with Dr. Dennis Whigham, from March 1 through August 31, 1985.

JACOB WEINER, Postdoctoral Fellow, Swarthmore College. Self-thinning in wild
rice - Zizania aquatica var. aquatica, with Dr. Dennis Whigham, from January
1, 1985 through December 31, 1985.

DONNA WOLCOTT, Visiting Scholar, North Carolina State University.

Development of ultrasonic telemetru of feeding in blue crabs, with Dr. Anson
Hines, from May 1, 1985 through August 31, 1985.

THOMAS WOLCOTT, Visiting Scholar, North Carolina State University.
Development of telemetru of feeding in blue crabs, with Dr. Anson Hines,

from May 1, 1985 through August 31, 1985.

SMITHSONIAN ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH CENTER

PATRICK FLAHERTY, Work/Learn Student, B.S. candidate, University of
Pittsburgh. Nutrient exchange in brackish marshes, with Dr. Thomas Jordan,
from May 13, 1985 through August 9, 1985.

SHARON HOSKO, Work/Learn Student, B.S., Baldwin-Wallace College. Community
structure and population dynamics of benthic invertebrates in an estuary,
with Dr. Anson Hines, from May 20, 1985 through September 27, 1985.

ANN LEVIN, Work/Learn Student, M.A., University of California, Davis. Insect
Ecologu, with Dr. James Lynch, from May 6, 1985 through August 30, 1985.
MONICA MCMANUS, Work/Learn Student, B.S., University of New Hampshire.
Woodland herb migration, with Dr. Dennis Whigham, from June 10, 1985 through
August 30, 1985.

MERLE POTCHINSKY, Work/Learn Student, B.S. candidate, Brandeis University.
Estuarine fish biologu project, with Dr. Anson Hines, from May 20, 1985
through August 23, 1985.

JAMES SCHAFER, Research Intern, M.S., Eastern Kentucky University. Chemistry
of forest throughfall, with Dr. David Correll, from April 1985 through
September 1985.

ADRIAN WESOL, Work/Learn Student, B.S., Southern Illinois University.
Community structure and population of benthic invertebrates In an estuaru,
with Dr. Anson Hines, from April 1, 1985 through June 21, 1985.

LENORE WEICHERT, B.S. candidate, University of Maryland. Population and
feeding of estuarine fish, with Dr. Anson Hines, from March 4, 1985 through
September 27, 1985.

ACADEMIC AND RESEARCH TRAINING APPOINTMENTS
SMITHSONIAN OFFICE OF EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH

Doris Johnson, Ph.D. candidate, University of the District
of Columbia. Pilot study on museum research with Dr. John
Balling, from September through December 1984.

Gail Leeds, M.A., George Washington University. Collect
bibliographic information on learning in museums for Dr.
Falk, from July through August 1985.

Stephanie Ratcliffe, Museum Education Program, George
Washington University. Worked with Director on community
science project research from January through May 1985.
SMITHSONIAN TROPICAL RESEARCH INSTITUTE

Academic, Research Training and Internship Appointments in
Fiscal Year 1985

Program in Tropical Biology

Brian Bock, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Tennessee. The Effects of
Gene Flow Barriers on the Differentiation of Anolis limifrons
Sub-populations in Panama, with Dr. Joseph Wright, from July 15, 1985
through July 14, 1986.

Philip DeVries, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Texas at Austin.
Mutualistic Interactions between Ants, Plants, Parasitoids and Two Species
of Riodinid Butterflies, with Dr. Donald M. Windsor, from September 1, 1985
through August 30, 1986.

Jae Choe, Graduate Student Fellow, Harvard University. Dispersal and Social
Organization in Zoroptera, with Dr. William Eberhard, from June 3 through
August 9, 1985.

Nancy B. Elliot, Short-term Visitors, Sienna College, Presocial Behavior in

Cerceris, with Dr. Mary Jane West-Eberhard, from July 1 through July 3l,

1985.

William M. Elliot, Short-term Visitor, Hartwick College. Presocial Behavior
in Cerceris, with Dr. Mary Jane West-Eberhard, from July 1 through July 3l,
1985.

Donald Feener, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Iowa. Defense Strategies
against Competitors, Predators and Parasites in a Tropical Ant Community,
with Dr. Stephen P. Hubbeil, from October 1, 1984 through September 30,
1985.

Mickey Marcus, Visiting Student, University of Maine at Orono. Study of
Frugivory and Seed Dispersal by Birds and Terrestrial Mammals of Understory
Trees and Shrubs in the Premontane Forests of the Camarca de San Blas, with
Drs. Egbert Leigh and Nicholas Smythe, from October 1 through December 10,
1985. 4

James Marden, Graduate Student Fellow, University of Vermont.
Thermoregulatory Physiology and Behavior of Large Tropical Insects, with Dr.
David W. Roubik, from June 1 through August 14, 1985.

Keith McGuiness, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Sydney, Australia.
Experimental Analysis of Disturbance and other Factors Structuring Reef
Plates in the Caribbean, with Dr. John Cubit, from November 1, 1985 through
October 31, 1986.

Robert Richmond, Postdoctoral Fellow, State University of New York at Stony
Brook. The Ecology, Physiology and Population Biology of the Reef-building

Pocillopora damicornis in the Eastern Pacific, with Dr. Jeremy J.C. Jackson,

from June 1 through December 31, 1985 and July 1 through August 31, 1986.
Kyle Summers, Visiting Graduate Student, University of Michigan. Mating and
Parental Behavior in the Green Poison-arrow Frog, Dendrobates auratus, with
Dr. A. Stanley Rand, from June 1 through August 9, 1985.

Jess Zimmerman, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Utah. The Ecological
Implications of Sex Change in the Orchid, Catasetum viridiflavum, with Drs.
Alan P. Smith and Joseph Wright, from June 1 through November 30, 1985 and
June 1 through November 30, 1986.

Short-term Fellowships in Tropical Biology

Eldredge Bermingham, Ph.D. candidate, University of Georgia. Mitochondrial
DNA Differentiation among Fishes and Invertebrates of the Eastern Pacific
and Caribbean: Testing a Molecular Clock, with Dr. Harilaos Lessios, from
September 27 through November 1, 1985.

Scott Carroll, Ph.D. candidate, University of Utah. The Ecology of
Reproductive Competition among Male Dysdercus bimaculatus, with Dr. Joseph
Wright, from February 1 through April 30, 1985.

Christian D'Orgeix, M.S. candidate, California State University at
Fullerton. Individual Recognition of Conspecifics in the Lizard Anolis

limifrons on Barro Colorado Island, with Dr. A. Stanley Rand, from May l
through September 30, 1985.

Jeronimo Garcia, M.S. candidate, University of Iowa. Strategies of
Establishment of Neotropical Trees, with Dr. Stephen Hubbell, from May 15 -
August 15, 1985.

Monica Geber, Ph.D. candidate, University of Utah. Ecological and
Populational Determinants of Mating System in Parasitic Fig Wasps of the
Genus Idarnes (Torymidea: Chalcioidea), with Dr. Donald Windsor, from
November 1, 1984 through January 31, 1985.

Matthew Grober, Ph.D. candidate, University of California at Los Angeles.
The Anti-Predator Functions of Bioluminescence in Tropical Ophiuroids, with
Dr. Harilacos Lessios, from November 9, 1984 through February 8, 1985.

Michael Keller, Ph.D. candidate, Princeton University. Chemistry of the
Soils of Barro Colorado Island: A Study of Rock and Soil Weathering, with
Dr. Egbert Leigh, from December 15, 1985 through January 30, 1986.

Eric Larsen, Ph.D. candidate, University of Arizona. Community Structure of
Tropical Aquatic Insects, with Dr. Joseph Wright, from March 1 through May
15, 1985.

Catherine McFadden, Ph.D. candidate, University of Washington. Size
Regulation and Patterns of Dispersion in Colonial Organisms: a Dependence on
Flow, with Dr. Jeremy J.C. Jackson, from September 23 - December 20, 1985.

Giselle Mora, Ph.D. candidate, University of Florida. Egg Guarding by Males
in Zygopachylus albomarginis (Arachnida: Opiliones: Gonyleptidae), with Dr.
Egbert Leigh, from August 7 - December 17, 1985.

ron
Christopher Peterson, Ph.D., University of Arizona. Gender Allocation in
Simultaneous Hemaphroditic Animals: Tests for Plasticity in Allocation, with
Dr. D. Ross Robertson, from May 22 through August 27, 1985.

Kathryn Sieving, Ph.D. candidate, University of Illinois. Habitat Use and
Abundance among Insectivorous Birds of Tropical Forest Understory: Peru -
Panama Comparison, with Dr. James R. Karr, from June 1 through August Si,
1985.

Keryea Soong, Ph.D. candidate, University of Texas at Austin. Reproductive
Strategies in the Branching Coral, Porites furcata, in various habitats at
Galeta Point, Panama, with Dr. Jeremy J.C. Jackson, from July 15 through
August 30, 1985.

Nathan Stephenson, M.S. candidate, Cornell University. A Comparison of
Habitat Fidelity of Tropical and Temperate Alpine Plants, with Dr. Alan
Smith, from September 1 through December 31, 1985.

Fellowship & Assistantship Program

Victor Acuna, Exxon Assistant, University of Costa Rica. Environment,
Settlement and Subsistence in Central Panama, with Dr. Richard Cooke, from
June 3 through November 2, 1985.

Nidia Aguirre, Exxon Assistant, University of Panama. Phytoliths in Modern
Plants and Archaeological and Geological Soils, with Dr. Dolores Piperno,
from February 1 through July 24, 1985.

German I. Andrade, Exxon Assistant, Institute of Natural Resources,
Colombia. Study of Understory Birds in the Barro Colorado Nature Monument
and Soberania National Park, with Doctors Marina Wong and James Karr, from
January 16 through April 12, 1985.

Itzel D. Angulo, Exxon Assistant, University of Panama. Population Structure
and Ecology of Spiny Lobsters, with Dr. R. Anne Richards, from November 9
through December 21, 1984.

Axel Calderdn, Exxon Assistant, University of Panama. Breeding Isopods from
the Different Coasts of Panama, with Dr. James Weinberg, from April 23
through June 7, 1985 and Sea Urchin Studies, with Dr. Harilaos Lessios, from
July 15 through October 4, 1985.

Ricardo Calvo, Exxon Assistant, Universidad Simén Bolivar, Venezuela.
Study of Reproductive System and Pollination in Erythrina costaricensis,
with Dr. Lyn Loveless, from September 7 through December 7, 1985.

Ricardo Caicedo, Marine Ecology Post-Course Award, University of Panama.
Distribucién y Aspectos Taxonémicos de los Moluscos Marinos del Archipiélago
de Las Mulatas, San Blas, with Dr. Harilaos Lessios, from August 1, 1985
through January 31, 1986.

Alcibiades Cedeno, Exxon Assistant, Universidad de Rio Grande, Brazil.
Study of Fish Otoliths, with Dr. Ross Robertson, from September 5, 1985
through January 17, 1986.
Clementina Chung, Exxon Assistant, University of Panama. Comparative Ecology
of Growth Form in Two Species of Palms, with Kevin Hogan, from February 2
through May 10, 1985.

Fernando Cornejo, Exxon Assistant, Universidad Agraria del Pert. Mapping
Project of Trees on a 50 hectare Section of Forest on Barro Colorado Island,
with Dr. Robin Foster, from September 11 through December 10, 1985.

Amada Dominguez, Exxon Assistant, University of Panama. Preparation of
Illustrated Flora of Seedlings of Panama Tropical Moist Forest, with Dr.
Nancy Garwood, from September 2 through November 22, 1985.

Silvia Farrugia and Ernesto Ponce, Exxon Fellows, University of Panama.
Distribucién de invertebrados en un manglar en Juan Dfaz en la estaci6n
seca, with Prof. Victor Hugo Tejera and Dr. Neal Smith, from February 15
through May 15, 1985.

Rosa E. Franco, Exxon Assistant, University of Panama. Iguana Management
Project, with Dr. Dagmar Werner, from February 15 through May 15, 1985.

Octavio Gonzalez, Exxon Assistant, University of Panama. Iguana Management
Project, with Dr. Dagmar Werner, from February 15 through May 15, 1985.

Modesto Guardia, Exxon Assistant, University of Panama. Physiological Study
of Diapause in Certain Species of Beetles, with Dr. Seiji Tanaka, from April
29 through November 8, 1985.

Belkys Jiménez, Exxon Assistant, University of Panama. Habitat Use and
Selection by Birds in Soberania National Park, with Dr. James Karr and
Kathryn Sieving, from June 10 through August 15, 1985.

Gustavo Justine and Freddy Pérez, Marine Ecology Post-Course Award,
Direccidén de Recursos Marinos and University of Panama. Cantidad y calidad
energética del material de reserva contenido en las etapas iniciales de vida
de los cangrejos Xanthidos: Xanthidius stenberghii y Eurypamopeus planus,
with Dr. John Christy, from August 1 through October 31, 1985.

Georgina Lezcano, Exxon Assistant, University of Panama. Patterns of Leaf
Development in Tropical Species: Implications for Carbon Gain and Herbivory,
with Doctors Phyllis Coley and Thomas Kursar, from September 11 through
December 23, 1985.

Elsa Meza, Exxon Assistant, Universidad Nacional del Centro del Pert. Study
of Tachygalia Trees on Barro Colorado Island, with Dr. Robin Foster, from
April 5 thorugh October 1, 1985.

Angel Modes, Exxon Assistant, University of Panama. Population Dynamics and
Ecology of Rocky Intertidal Organisms, with Dr. Hugh Caffey, from October
15, 1984 through January 4, 1985.

Luis Manuel Mota, Exxon Assistant, Universidad Nacional Auténoma de México.
Experimental Study of Selection of Natural Diets by Hatchling Iguanas, with
Dr. Dagmar Werner, from May 17 through September 15, 1985.
Freddy Pérez, Exxon Assistant and Tinker Intern, Universidad del Valle,
Colombia. Body Size, Reproductive Traits and Mating System of Fiddler Crabs
of the Pacific Coast of Panama, with Dr. John Christy, from April 23 through
October 15, 1985.

Ada Rodriguez, Exxon Assistant, University of Panama. Study of Leaf Loss on
Ten Different Plants in a Tropical Forest, with Dr. Peter Becker, from May
29 through December 31, 1985.

Jorge Roldan, Exxon Assistant, University of Panama. Faunal Study of the
Kuna-Yala Nature Reserve, with Mickey Marcus and Susan Charnley from October
1, 1984 through June 24, 1985.

Myozotis Ryfkogel, Exxon Assistant, University of Panama. Demographic Study
of Tropical House Wrens, with Dr. Leonard Freed, from July 8 through
September 27, 1985.

Nereyda Sdnchez, Exxon Assistant, University of Panama. Management of the
Green Iguana, with Dr. Dagmar Werner, from February 15 through May 15, 1985.

Roger Séptimc, Exxon Fellow, University of Panama. Efectos Agroecdlogicos
de la Carretera Chiriqui-Bocas del Toro sobre la Poblacién Guaymi, with
Doctors Luz Graciela Joly, John Bort and Richard Cooke, from August 5
through November 15, 1985.

Isabel Urrieztieta, Exxon Assistant, Fundacién Cientifica Los Roques,
Venezuela. The Biology of Commensal Crustaceans and Population Biology of

Acropora cervi cornis, with Dr. Nancy Knowlton, from September 22 through

December 15, 1985.

Maria Vergara, Exxon Assistant, University of Panama. Management of the
Green Iguana, with Dr. Dagmar Werner, from February 15 through May 15, 1985.

Ileana Visuetti, Exxon Assistant, University of Panama. Breeding
Experiments between Isopods of the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans, with Dr.
James Weinberg, from October 3 through December 12, 1985.

Luis Wong, Exxon Assistant, University of Havana. Population Biology of the
Coral, Pocillepora damicornis in the Eastern Pacific, with Dr. Robert
Richmond, from September 2 through November 22, 1985.

Ernesto Weil, Exxon Assistant, Fundaci6én Cientffica Los Roques, Venezuela.
Study of Encrusting Organisms on Coral Reefs on Both Coasts of Panama, with
Dr. Jeremy J.C. Jackson, from June 12 through November 30, 1985.

Fernando Zapata, Exxon Assistant, University of Arizona, Study of Seabasses
in the San Blas Islands and Taboga Island, with Dr. Christopher Petersen,
from June 10 through August 17, 1985.

Lydia Zubieta, Intern, Hood College, Courtship Behavior of Fiddler Crabs and
Dispersal of Crab Larvae, with Dr. John Christy, from May 23 through July
31% 1985
SMITHSONIAN TROPICAL RESEARCH INSTITUTE

Visiting Scholars

Dr. Rodolfo Dirzo, Universidad Auténoma de México.
Dr. Jack Goody, Cambridge University.

Dr. Esther Goody, Cambridge University.

Dr. Nigel Franks, University of Bath, England.

Ms. Dominique Irvine, Stanford University.

Lic. Victor Martinez, Universidad Autonoma de México.
Dr. Ernest Williams, Harvard University.

CENTER FOR ASIAN ART
FREER GALLERY OF ART and the
ARTHUR M. SACKLER GALLERY

Katharine Burnett, Freer Fellow, M. A. Candidate, University of
Michigan, Ann Arbor. "The Shanghai Collector P'ang Lai-ch'en,"

with Dr. Shen C. Y. Fu, from January 22 through May 31, 1985.

Raman Srinivasan, Smithsonian Predoctoral Fellow, University of
Pennsylvania. "A Scientific and Historical Investigation of Aranmulla
Mirrors: A Case Study in Metal Technology," with W. Thomas Chase and
Martha Goodway, from June 17 through August 10, 1985.

Richard Wilson, Smithsonian Postdoctoral Fellow. Assistant Professor
of Art History, Rice University. ''Problems in Connoisseurship:
Ceramics and Paintings Attributed to Ogata Kenzan (1633-1743) in the
Freer Gallery of Art," with Louise A. Cort, from June 1, 1985 through
May 313" 1986.

COOPER-HEWITT MUSEUM

Albrecnt, Thomas, Sidney and Celia Siegel Fellow, B.A. candidate, Brown
University. Work and study in the Assistant Director's Office, with
Harold Pfister, from June 10, 1985 to August 16, 1985.

Ameen, Sounad, M.A. candidate, Virginia Commonwealth University. Work
and study in the Registrar's Office, with Cordelia Rose, from August 30,
1985 to October 31, 1985.

Berger, Laura, The Wooster School, Work and study in the Director's
Office, with William Gaske, May 1, 1985 to June 30, 1985.

Brody, Barbara, M.A. candidate, New York University. Work and study in
the Capital Campaign Office, with Richard Stainbrook, from July 23, 1985
to September 30, 1985.

Brostoff, Lynn, B.A., Institute of Fine Arts. Work and study in Paper
Conservation and the Drawings and Prints Department, with Konstanze
Bachmann, from February 7, 1985 to May 20, 1985.

Cire, Annette, M. A. candidate, University of Bonn. Work and study in

the Director's Office, with Lisa Taylor, from February 25, 1985 to April
5, 1985.

72
v/a)

Clarke, Kathryn, B.A. candidate, Colby College. Work and study in the
Director's Office, with Lisa Taylor, from January 2, 1985 to January 31.
1985.

Connor, Mary Ellen, B.A., Wheaton College. Work and study in the Director's
Office, with Lisa Taylor, from June 10, 1985 to August 16, 1985.

Deeley, Ann, B.A. candidate, University of Scranton. Work and study in
the Capital*Campaign Office, with Richard Stainbrook, from January 2,
1985 to January 31, 1985.

Fields, Paris, B.A. candidate, Sarah Lawrence College. Work and study
in the Registrar's Office, with Cordelia Rose, from October 19, 1984 to
January 31, 1985.

Foster, Rebecca, B.A. candidate, Williams College. Work and study in
the Exhibitions Department, with Zette Emmons, from June 10, 1985 to
August 16, 1985.

Gaardboe, Susan, B.A. candidate, New York University. Work and study
in Textile Conservation, with Lucy Commoner, from January 22, 1985 to
October 31, 1985.

‘Gessner, Barclay, B.A. candidate, Williams College. Work and study in

the Programs Department, with Susan Yelavich, from June 10, 1985 to
August 16, 1985.

Gillman, Sarah, B.A. candidate, Yale University. Work and study in the
Publications Department, with Nancy Akre, from June 10, 1985 to August
165,21985.

Haviland, Patricia, M.A., Iowa State University. Work and study in
Textile Conservation, with Lucy Commoner, from January 2, 1985 to September
30, 1985.

Hirsch, Elizabeth, B.A., Rhode Island School of Design. Work and study
in the Textiles Department, with Milton Sonday, from June 10, 1985 to
August 16, 1985.

Lafond, John H., M.A. candidate, New York University. Work and study in
the Exhibitions Department, with Dorothy Globus, from February 11, 1985
to May 30, 1985.

Larsen, Diana, B.A., University of British Columbia. Work and study in
the Decorative Arts Department, with David McFadden, from January 23,
1985 to January 31, 1986.

Sideman, Luke, B.A., New York University. Work and study in the Registrar's
Office, with Cordelia Rose, from June 10, 1985. to August 16, 1985.
Smith, Alexandra, B.A. candidate, The Hollins College. Work and study
in the Drawings and Prints Department, with Elaine Dee, from January 2,
1985 to January 31, 1985.

Tedeschi, Christine, B.A. candidate, Rhode Island School of Design.

Work and study in the Exhibitions Department, with Robin Parkinson, from
January 2, 1985 to January 31, 1985.

Ueno, Takemi, Sidney and Celia Siegel Fellow, B.A. candidate, Harvard
University. Work and study in the Wallcoverings Department, with Ann
Dorfsman, from June 10, 1985 to August 16, 1985.

Vogel, Elaine, B.A., Indiana University. Work and study in the Public
Information Department, with Isabelle Silverman, from September 5, 1985
to December 31, 1985.

Yatzeck, Tanya, Sidney and Celia Siegel Fellow, B.A. candidate, Beloit
College. Work and study in the Drawings and Prints Department, with
Elaine Dee, from June 10, 1985 to August 16, 1985.
Academic and Research Training Appointments
Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden

Nicholas Natanson, M.A. candidate, University of Iowa. Work
and study with Dr. Judith Zilczer, Department of Painting
and Sculpture, from June 19 through August 19, 1985.

Rebecca Zurier, Ph.D. candidate, Yale University. The Draw-

ings of the Ash Can School, with Dr. Judith Zilczer, from
April, 1985 through May’, 1986

Internship and Other Student Appointments
Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden

Angela Adams, B.A., College of Wooster. Work and study. with
the Department of Painting and Sculpture, with Dr. Judith
Zilczer and Cynthia Jaffee McCabe, from June 10 through
August 16, 1985.

Lisa Burkhalter, B.A., Texas Christian University. Work and
study in the Department of Painting and Sculpture, with
Valerie Fletcher, from June 10 through August 16, 1985.

Audrey Davis, B.A. candidate, University of Virginia. Work
and study in the Department of Education, with Teresia Bush,
from June 10 through August 16, 1985.

Jennifer Frey, B.A., Stanford University. Work and study in
the Department of Painting and Sculpture, with Phyllis
Rosenzweig, from June 17 through August 23, 1985.

Dayna Johnson, B.A., University of Houston. Work and study
in the Department of Education, with Edward P. Lawson, from
June 17 through July -26- 19385..

Hannah Yi, A.B. candidate, Smith College. Work and study in
the Department of Exhibits and Design, with Joe Shannon,
from June 10 through August 16, 1985.

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AFRICAN ART

Eli Bentor, Indiana University. Short-term Visitor, May 1985 to July 1985.
Blythe Follet-Colon, University of Connecticut. Graduate Fellow, June 1985
to August 1985.

Sharon Patton, University of Maryland. January 1985 to May 1985.

Elisha Renne, University of Minnesota. Short-term Visitor, June 1985 to
August 1985.
2)

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART

Lisa Koenigsberg (Yale University), Pre-doctoral: "Pro-
fessionalising Domesticity: American Women Writer's on
Architecture, 1965-1917"; Sept. 1984-May 1985.

Sandra L. Langer (University of South Carolina),
Post-doctoral: “John Frederick Kensett, A Critical Study
of His Life and Art"; June-November 1984,

Karol Lawson (University of Virginia), Pre-doctoral: "The
American Landscape in Painting and Prints, ca. 1600-1820";
Jan. 1985-Dec. 1985.

J. Gray Sweeney (Grand Valley State College), Post-doctoral: "A
Study of Thomas Cole's Iconographic and Stylistic Influence
over Mid-nineteenth Century American Painting"; September
1984-Aug. 1985.

Cecile Whiting (Stanford University), Pre-doctoral: "The
American Painter's Response to Fascism, 1933-45"; June
1984-May 1985.

Smithsonian Fellows, continuing appointments

Richard Masteller (Whitman College), Post-doctoral, Visiting
Scholar, “Satiric Form in the 1930s: Dissident Voices,
Dissident Visions"; Sept.-Aug. 1985.

Reginia Perry (Virginia Commonwealth University), Post-doctoral,
Ford Foundation Fellowship, “A History of Black American
Art, 1650-1984"; Aug.-July 1985.

Martha Anderson (University of Maryland), Pre-doctoral: “The
Indigenous Roots of New York Dada"; June 1985.

Nancy Anderson (University of Delaware), Pre-doctoral:
“Albert Bierstadt and the California Landscape Painters of
the 1870s"; Dec. 1984-Aug. 1985.

Sara Boehm (Bryn Mawr College), Pre-doctoral: "Seth Eastman's
Illustrations for Henry Schoolcraft's Historical and
Statistical Information Respecting the History, Condition
and Prospects of the Indian Tribes of the United States";
Sept. 1985.

Sara Parrott (George Washington University), Pre-doctoral: “Ex-
patriates and Professionals: A Study of the Careers in
Italy of American Women Writers and Artists Born Between
1810 and 1850"; Aug. 1984-Aug 1985.
Elizabeth Turner (University of Virginia), Pre-doctoral:
“American Artists in Paris, 1920-1929"; Dec. 1984-Aug. 1985.

Susan Rather (University of Delaware), Pre-doctoral: "Paul
Manship and Archaism in American Sculpture, 1900-1930";
Dec. 1984-Aug. 1985.

Elizabeth Tebow (University of Maryland), Pre-doctoral: "The
Mythical Imagination in American Painting of the Late
Nineteenth Century”; Sept. 1984.

University Interns

Kathryn Buttrick, The University of Virginia, September 7, 1984-
April 19, 1985. NMAA University Program.

Debra Harrison, Carnegie-Mellon University, September 7, 1984-
December 12, 1984. Special project in the Office of Museum
Programs.

Kim Kroeger, George Washington University, September 7, 1984-
April 19, 1985. NMAA University Program.

Cynthia Kundar, Pennsylvania State University, January 16, 1985-
May 15, 1985. Special project in the Office of Museum
Programs.

Gail Leeds, George Washington University, January 16, 1985-
April 19, 1985. Special project in the Office of Museum
Programs.

Jonathan Mann, The American University, September 7, 1984-
April 19, 1985. NMAA University Program.

Miguel Seco, Johns Hopkins University, January 16, 1985-
April 19, 1985. Special Project with the Assistant
Director for Museum Resources.

Julie Stein, The University of Virginia, September 7, 1984-
April 19, 1985. NMAA University Program.

Jason Wrenn, Howard University, January 16, 1985-April 19, 1985.
Special project split between the Office of Museum Programs
and the Smithsonian's Office of Telecommunications.

April 19, 1985.

Nancy Yeide, The American University, September 7, 1984-
December 12, 1985. NMAA University Program.

wo
Wo
High School Interns:

Leah Gilliam, Tne Sidwell Friends School, Washington, D.C.,
September 7, 1984-December 12, 1984. Special project in
the Office of the Registrar.

Summer Interns:

Emma-Rose Barbar, University of East Anglia, Great Britain
June 10, 1985-July 29, 1985. Office of Museum Programs.

Marcie Campbell, Colby College, June 3, 1985-July 22, 1985..
Department of Design and Production.

Ana Soto Canino, Princeton University, June 3, 1985-July 22,
1985. Office of Museum Programs.

Elizabeth Chew, Yale University, June 3, 1985-July 22, 1985.
Office of the Director.

Patricia Freuh, University of Wisconsin-Madison, June 3, 1985-
July 22, 1985. Curatorial Division.

Janice Isemoto, University of California at Santa Barbara,
June 3, 1985-July 22, 1985. Curatorial Division.

Anita Saxon, Howard University, June 3, 1985-July 29, 1985.
Curatorial Division.

Laila Schulmeisters, Wellesley College, June 3, 1985-July 29,
1985. Department of Design and Production.

Alexandra Woods, Wellesley College, June 3, 1985-July 29, 1985.
Office of Research Support.
Interns
National Portrait Gallery

Clarissa Cantacuzene, Undergraduate, University of Virginia. Developed
and compiled training materials for Education Aide program, with Harry
Jackson, Education Department, from June 7, 1985 through July 22, 1985.
Denise Carty, Undergraduate, Smith College. Researched and wrote annota-
tions for Peale Papers and participated in the preparation of manuscripts
for publication, with Dr. Lillian Miller, Peale Papers, from August 22,
1985 through December 19, 1985.

Thomas H. Coolsen, Graduate work in art history. Updated files related
to American Portraits, with Linda Thrift, Catalog of American Portraits,
from June 18, 1985 through September 1, 1985.

Susan E. Davis, Graduate, University of Michigan. Conducted searches
for Time magazine portraits privately owned and in other public
collections, with Fred Voss, History Department, from June 3, 1985
through August 3, 1985.

Shannon M. Duffy, Undergraduate, Mount Holyoke College. Made curatorial
records for most recent acquisition of Time magazine covers, with Fred
Voss, History Department, from June 6, 1985 through August 23, 1985.

W. McNeill Eaton, Undergraduate, Smith College. Researched and edited
Manuscripts, with Dr. Lillian Miller, Peale Papers, from August 27, 1984
through December 3, 1984.

Susan S. Gindlin, Undergraduate, Smith College. Did collection related
research on the lives of Robert Ball Hughes and Theobald Chartran, with
Dr. Carolyn Carr, Assistant Director for Collections; researched
biographical files for Broadcasting exhibition, with Amy Henderson,
History Department; and researched nineteenth century American sculpture,
with Dr. Ellen G. Miles, Office of the Curator, from August 1984 through
January 24, 1985.

Robin E. Hall, Undergraduate, Hollins College. Served as technician in
silk screen lab, with Alice Rodowsky Seegers, Department of Exhibits
Design & Production, from January 1, 1985 through January 30, 1985.
Deborah Macanic Jones, Graduate Student, Howard University. Worked on
portraits to be included for the exhibition, "The Portrait in America
from 1700-1776," and worked on the portraits by Healy in the collection,
with Dr. Ellen G. Miles, Office of the Curator, from September 24, 1984
through December 14, 1984 and July 1, 1985 through September 6, 1985.
Nichelle A. Lloyd, High School Student, School Without Walls. Researched
office operations, learned how to give guided tours and staff information
desk, with Harry Jackson, Education Department, from September 21, 1984
through May 30, 1985.

Christine A. Monsen, College Graduate in art history. Located portrait
material for bibliography on portraiture, with Cecilia Chin, Library,
from July 3, 1985 through September 5, 1985.

Lesley M. O'Malley, Undergraduate, Denison University. Assisted with
dark room tasks, helped in studio and on-site, and with public relations
Photographs, with Eugene Mantie, Photo Lab, from June 25, 1985 through
August 9, 1985.

Katherine L. Ormand, Undergraduate, University of Arizona. Conducted
Education Department school programs and observed techniques of
conservation, with Harry Jackson, Education Department, from September

4, 1984 through December 14, 1984.

Co

National Portrait Gallery

Edward Bolling Ripley, Undergraduate, Emory and Henry College. Assisted
in the Department of Design and Production, with Stephen di Girolamo,
Design and Production, from May 28, 1985 through July 2650985

Karen Rubenstein, Undergraduate, Smith College. Researched and helped
to organize exhibition of American jurists, with Fred Voss, History
Department, from August 22, 1985 through December 19, 1985.

Debra A. Seddon, Undergraduate, Cooper Union College. Assisted in
Exhibition Production, with Anice Doak, Exhibits Office, from April 23,
1985 through August 30, 1985.

Karen E. Vance, Undergraduate, Howard University. Conducted Outreach
Programs for high schools and senior citizens with Harry Jackson,
Education Department, from February 11, 1985 through May 30, 1985.
Margaret Weinstein, Undergraduate, Wellesley College. Cataloged portrait
data, conducted research, and answered inquiries, with Richard Doud,
Catalog of American Portraits, from June 6, 1985 through August 9, 1985.

CONSERVATION ANALYTICAL LABORATORY

Ann Boulton, Postgraduate Conservation Intern, State University College
at Buffalo, N.Y., Art Conservation Department. Special Projects in
Objects Conservation, with Carol A. Grissom, from September 16, 1985
through September 15, 1986.

Julia M. Burke, Conservation Intern, University of Washington at
Seattle. Work and Study in Textile Conservation, with Mary W. Ballard,
from June 17, 1985 through September 27, 1985.

Veletta Canouts, Ph.D., Visiting Scholar, Southern Illinois University.
Hopi Social Boundary Maintenance and Exchange Relationships,
AD1300-1600, with Ronald L. Bishop, from September 1, 1985 through
August 31, 1987.

Theresa M. Colamatteo, Conservation Intern, University of Wisconsin at
Minneapolis. Work and Study in Textile Conservation, with Mary W.
Ballard, from June 17, 1985 through September 27, 1985.

Julian Henderson, Ph.D., Postdoctoral Fellow in Materials Analysis,
University of Bradford, United Kingdom, Analysis of Iron Age Glass
from Magdalenska Gora, Northwestern Yugoslavia, with Jacqueline S.
Olin, from October 1, 1984 through April 30, 1985.

D. Linn Kennedy, Conservation Intern, University of Maryland. Work and
Study in Textile Conservation, with Mary W. Ballard, from July 15,
1985 through September 20, 1985.

Lana Poffenroth, Conservation Intern, University of Alberta, Edmonton,
Alberta, Canada. Work and Study in Textile Conservation, with Mary W.
Ballard, from July 15, 1985 through September 20, 1985.

Jane Sugarman, Conservation Intern, University of Delaware at
Winterthur. Work and Study in Paper Conservation, with Timothy J.
Vitale and Dianne van der Reyden, from September 16, 1985 through
September 15, 1986.

Cornelius van Horne, Visiting Conservator, Training School of Restorers,
Amsterdam, the Netherlands. Special projects in Furniture and
Ethnographic Conservation, with Mare A. Williams and Carolyn L. Rose,
from September 1, 1984 through July 31, 1985.
INTERNSHIP AND OTHER STUDENT AVPOINTMENTS
OFFICE OF HORTICULTURE

David Steingrubey, Office cf Horticulture Intern. Work and study in a
plant collection greenhouse, with August A. Dietz IV, Greenhouse-Nursery
Division from July 5, 1984 tnrough September 4, 1985.

Jennifer Dimling, Office of Horticulture Intern, B.A. candidate, The
Colorado College. Work and study in a plant collection greenhouse, with
August A. Dietz, IV, Greenhouse-Nursery PEO from September 14, 1985
through December 14, 1985.

Barbara Young, Gftice of Horticulture Intern, B.S. candidate, Gallaudet
College. Work and study in a plant collection greenhouse and on museum
grounds, with August A. Dietz IV and Kenneth Hawkins, Greenhouse-Nursery
Division and Grounds Management Division from February 7, 1985 through
May 9, 1985.

Mary Breeding, Office of Horticulture Intern, B.S. candidate, James
Madison University. Work and study in a museum horticulture office,
with Kenneth Hawkins, August A. Dietz IV and Kathryn Meehan, Green-
house-Nursery Division, Grounds Management Division and Historic
Horticulture Division from June 3, 1985 through August 16, 1985.

Monica Meehan, Office of Horticulture Intern and a Professional Training
Program for Careers in the Floral Industry Trainee, B.S. candidate, Uni-
versity of Nebraska-Lincoln. Work and study in a museum horticulture
office with Kenneth Hawkins, August A. Dietz IV, and Kathryn Meehan,
Greenhouse-Nursery Division, Grounds Management Division and Historic
Horticulture Division from May 28, 1985 through August 9, 1985.

io 9)

ioe)

Interns Placed by The Office of Museum Prograis
National Museum of Natural History

Remi Adedayo, Museum of Natural History, Lagos, Nigeria
James An, Taiwan Museum

Biodun Areo, Museum of Natural History, Lagos, Nigeria
oy Berlin, School of the Art Institute of Chicago
Steven Fondriest, Ohio State University

Joseph Keleher, Beloit College

asashi Kimura

Teresa McGervey, California University of Pennsylvania
Jessica Meltzer, Earlham College

National Museum of American History

Rebecca Nelson, Ohio Wesleyan University

Rita Organ, California College of Arts and Crafts
Lauren Clark, College of the Holy Cross

Andrea Giordano, University of Massachusetts

Judy Harper, Austin College

Barbara Harrick, College of William and Mary
Robert Hilton, University of Michigan Ann Arbor
Jane Horrocks, University of Maryland

Jedd Kensinger, James Madison University

Vivian Kim, University of California, Irvine
Karla Kirk

Yvonne Laboy, University of Maryland

Donna Martin, Smith College

Alice Mastrangelo, Franklin and Marshall College

National Portrait Gallery

Lesley O'Malley, Denison University
Thomas Coolsen

National Zoological Park

Irene Pollman

Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden

Stephanie Rachum, Israel Museum

National Air and Space Museum

Kelly Doucet, Gallaudet College

Office of Service and Protocol
uljette Sartin

Grace Scarboro, Furman University

Ulrike Duenkesbuehler, University of Konstanz
Sara Mendalson, Wellesley College
Museum Shops

Francine Acker, Troyes University of Trade, France
Michelle Gerdy, Troyes University of Trade, France

Office of Public Affairs

Mary MacInnis, College of William and Mary
Jennifer Mearns, Texas Christian University

Office of Museum Programs

Mary McFarland, Hollins College

Meg Fowler, Georgetown University

Francine Furey, University of Scranton

Lorena Garmezy, Cornell University

Rachel Lerner, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor
Michael Judd, George Washington University
Resident Associates Program

Jeffrey McKibben, Georgetown University
Margaret Coaldrake, University of Leicester

Office of Folklife

Cynthia Moore

Nancy Darby, Montgomery College

Gretchen Frick, George Washington University

Frank Lepore, University of Maryland

Smithsonian Institution Libraries

Sylviane Ashworth, Bibliotheque de Documentation Intntl.
Smithsonian Press

Elizabeth Estes, University of the South

Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibitions Service
Lindsey Haines

Smithsonian Castle

Scott Hall

Office of Exhibits Central

Harry Haon, University of Oregon

(oe)
\O
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION ARCHIVES

Julie Hamman, B.A. candidate, Portland State University. Survey of Animal-
related Records at the National Zoological Park, with William A. Deiss,
from September 30 through December 10, 1985.

Catherine McGeehan, B.A. candidate, The George Washington University.
Archival work on the Collected Letters on Ethnology and the Papers of
Ernest P. Walker, with William A. Deiss, from June 3 through July 31, 1985.
Margaret Stevens, B.A., The University of Virginia. Work on the Photograph
Survey Project, with Diane L Vogt Oars from June 7 through September
30, 1985.

Donna Webber, B.A. The iacsachusctee Institute of Technology Archives.
Work on the SIBIS Automation System from April 8 through May 3, 1985.

Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service Interns

Thereza Crowe, M.A. candidate, St. Andrews University, Edinburgh, Scotland.
Conducted research with Donald McClelland for Views of Rome and Art From Our

Time: Selections from the Olga Hirshhorn Collection from June 1985 through
August 1985.

Cathy Griggs, B.A. candidate, George Washington University. Assisted in the
research and selection of artifacts for the "hands-on" archaeology kit being
developed by the Education Department from July 1985 through August 1985.

Lindsey Haines, B.A., 1984, University of California, Los Angeles. Aided with
the research and coordination of the catalogue for Three Centuries of German
Painting and Drawing; assisted Ann Singer and Ronald Geatz, Public Affairs
Office, with the organization of the Cultural Attache Reception and updated the
SITES mailing list; researched educational programs for Martha a eet and
Marjorie Share; from January 1985 through March 1985.

Wynne Harrison, B.A., 1985, Pennsylvania State University. Researched and
developed education materials with Marjorie Share for Audubon: Science Into
Art and Material Evidence: New Color Techniques in Handmade Furniture;

conducted preliminary research on Canminity Industries of the Shakers from June
1985 through August 1985.

Emily Stern, B.A. candidate, Yale University. Assisted Betty Teller and Mary
Bet Dobson with the exhibition Hollywood: Lecend and Reality; prepared text
and photographs for the brochure to accompany Ebla to Damascus: Art and
Archaeology of Ancient Syria from June 1985 to August 1985.

90
INTERNSHIP AND OTHER STUDENT APPOINTMENTS
OFFICE OF FOLKLIFE PROGRAMS

Nancy Darby, B.A. candidate, Montgomery College, Maryland,
with “Dr 4 Richard’ Kurin,.,from May: 21). through, August,2;, 21985).

Gretchen Frick, M.A. candidate, George Washington University,
Washington, D.C., with Marjorie Hunt, from September 2 through
October, 15,1985.

Louise Victoria Jeffredo, B.A. candidate, University of
Southern California, with Alicia Gonzalez, from June 10
through August 9, 1985.

Frank Lepore, B.A. candidate, University of Maryland, with
Richard Derbyshire, from November 6, 1984 through May 3, 1985.

Cynthia Moore, B.A., Miami University, Ohio, with Dr. Peter
Seitel, from October 29, 1984 through January 3, 1985.

Office of Museum Programs Visiting Professionals, 1985

El-Hussein Abou al-Atta, Greco-Roman Museum, Egypt

Hagura Adachi, Modern Art Museum of Kama Kura; Japan

Nayla Ali Al Khalifa, Ministry of Information and Culture, Bahrain
Juan Alvarez, Kenosha Public Museum, Wisconsin

Saphalya Amatya, Department of Archeology, Nepal

Mario Socorro Arras-Rodriguez, INBA, Chihuahua, Mexico

Seema Bhatt, World Wildlife Fund, New Delhi, India

Suhail S. Bisharat, Jordan National Gallery of Fine Arts, Jordan
Maria Elvira Bonila-Otoya, Gold Museum, Columbia

Paulo Brochado, Porto Allegre, Brazil

Cecilia Brugnini, Montevideo, Uruguay

Stella Butler, Greater Manchester Museum of Science and Industry, England
Sahib Khan Channo, Archives, Govt. of Sind, Pakistan

Yeshwant Chaudhary, Society of Industrial Designers, India
Wenhao Chou, National Museum of Natural Science; Taiwan

Nanette Clark, Afro-American Historical and Cultural Museum
Antonio Cordova, City of Bayamon, Puerto Rico

Audixford Coronel, Porto Allegre, Brazil

Janeen Costa, Utah Museum of Natural History

James Coulter, Glasgow Art Gallery and Museum, U. K.

Jan Davidson, Mountain Heritage Center, North Carolina

Dakoji Devraj, LaLit Kala Studios, New Delhi, India

Deborah Dunn, Bishop Museum, Hawaii

Mrs. Robert Dunne, California Academy of Sciences

J. Struan Ensor, Auckland Institute and Museum, New Zealand
Feisal A. H. Esmael, Egyptian Antiquities Organization, Egypt
Ragayan Eusoff, Bank Negara Malaysia

James Fajardo, Hearst San Simeon Historical Monument

Hanna Aly Farid, Kuwait National Museum, Kuwait

OI
Graeme Farnell, Scottish Museum Council

Wendy Fitch, Manitoba Museum of Man

Eva Forgacs, Museum of Applied Arts, Hungary

Gladys Edith Magdalen Fullman, Fiji Museum, Fiji

Giuseppe Gambardella, Universita di Genova

Tapan Ganguly, Natl. Council of Science Museums, India

Joao Carlos Garcia, Observatorio Nacional, Brazil

Annete Gibbs, Charlotte Brown Project, North Carolina
Deborah Graham, Missouri Botanical Garden

M. G. Grainger, Ministry of Works and Development, New Zealand
Almeida Guarita, Dept. of Museums and Archives, Sao Paulo, Brazil
Frans Haak, Groninger Museum, The Netherlands

Andrea Hauenschild-Frank 7
Stanley J. Hipwood, Los Alamos National Laboratory

Maria Iacob, Council of Culture and Education, Romania

Jacob Ikunyua, Kitale Museum, Kenya

Elizabeth Jacob, National Museum of Natural History, India
Marlene Jaffe, Textile Conservation Workshop, New York
William Jeffries, Parliamentary Under-Secretary, New Zealand
Somnuk Kaekrachang, Parliamentary Museum, Thailand

Khader Ibrahim Salameh Khmour, Al-aqsa Library, West Bank/Jerusalem
Dag Kjelldahl, Oslo, Norway

Yuko Kodama, Hokkaido Museum of Modern Art, Japan

Andrew Kugfas, State Historic Preservation Office, Yap
Antoine Landreau, Institut Superieur des Carrieres Artisitiques
Ang Kim Ling, Bank Negara Malaysia

Hilde Lobel, Memling Museum, Belgium

Patricia Lontoc, Barangay Manggahan, Philippines

Peter Ludvigsen, Arbejdermuseet, Copenhagen, Denmark

Richard MacLeod, U. S. Space Foundation, Colorado

Maria Maldonado, Republican Bank, Columbia

Maureen McDonough, Michigan State University

Darryl McIntyre, Australian War Memorial

Patsy McMillan, Klamath Falls Museum Complex

Terence Measham, Australian National Gallery

Jayashree Mohta, Birla Academy of Art and Culture

Mohammed Mousli, Department of Antiquities, Syria

Alessandra Mottola Molfino, Museo Poldi Pezzol, Italy

Jose Munoz, USIS, Quito, Ecuador

Ahmed Nabi-Khan, Augaf Department, Punjab Govt., Pakistan
Lilas Okita, Centre for Nigerian Cultural Studies, Nigeria
Joyce Padem-Sing, New Amsterdam Museum, Suriname

Javiar Pava, Centro Nacional de Restauracion, Colombia
George Perry, Austin Nature Center, Texas

Steven Pollock, British Museum, Natural History

Harrison Prince, Red Mountain Museum, Alabama

Dilip Ramade, Prince of Wales Museum, India

Sharon Rao, The Gallery, Madras, India

Renato Romoli-Martinez, Natl. Museum of Nat. Hist., Dominican Republic

Barbara Rountree, Children's Hands On Museum, Alabama

Archana Roy, Birla Academy of Art and Culture, India

Keith Russell, Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia
Mohamed Saleh, Egyptian Museum, Egypt

Kartikeya Sarabhai, Centre for Environmental Education, India
Colleen Schafroth, Horner Museum, Oregon

Johann-Karl Schnidt, Landsmuseum, Fed. Rep. of Germany
Catnerine Scott, L. A. Cnildrens Museuai

G. K. Snarotri, National Museum of Art, India

Yasuko Snimizo, Hokxaido Museum of Modern Art, Japan
Rayendra Shrestha, Natural History Museum, Nepal

Beverly Smalls, New Hanover County Museum, North Carolina
Rosalie Smith-McCrea, National Gallery of Jamaica
Christoph Stoelzl, Munich City Museum, Fed. Rep. of Germany
Diane Turner, Afro-American Historical and Cultural Museum
Mr. Wahyono, National Museum, Indonesia

Anne-Lise Walsted, Arbejdermuseet, Copenhagen, Denmark
Said Ahmed Warsama, ISERT, Djibouti

Kimberly Webber, University of Sydney, Australia

Susan Will, Fort Egbert, Eagle, Alaska

Denis Williams, Gog Walter Roth Museum, Guyana

David Wixted, Natl. Trust of Queensland, Australia

Dennis Zamora, Spanish Colonial History of Texas Project
Barbara Zucker, I]linois Cooperative Conservation Program
Appendix 5

Publications of the Smithsonian Institution Press in Fiscal Year 1985

GENERAL PUBLICATIONS
TRADE PUBLICATIONS

Aditi: The Living Arts of India. Dedication by Robert McC. Adams;
Foreword hy S. Dillon Ripley; Preface by Rajeev Sethi; Introduction by
Pupul Jayakar. 280 pages, 71 color and 200 black-and-white illustrations,
1 map. Cloth: $27.50; Paper: $14.95. June 1985.

Ann Uhry Abrams. The Valiant Hero: Benjamin West and Grand-Style History
Painting. 256 pages, 7 color and 142 black-and-white illustrations.
Cloth: $39.95; Paper: $19.95. Auqust 1985.

Esin Atil, W. T. Chase, and Paul Jett. Islamic Metalwork in the Freer
Gallery of Art. 274 pages, 195 black-and-white illustrations. Paper:
$17.50. September 1985.

Pieter Bleeker. Atlas Ichtyologique des Indes Orientales Neerlandaises--
Volume IV: Murenes, Symbranches et Leptocephales (Atlas of Fishes of the
Dutch Fast Indies). 132 pages, 49 color plates. Cloth: $50.00. May 1985.

Walter J. Boyne. Phantom in Combat. 176 pages, 269 black-and-white
illustrations. Cloth: $22.50. April 1985.

Beverly J. Cox and Denna Jones Anderson. Miguel Covarrubias Caricatures.
With essays by Al Hirschfeld and Bernard F. Reilly, Jr.; Foreword by Alan
Fern. 164 pages, 15 color and 87 black-and-white illustrations. Cloth:
$24.95; Paper: $12.50. January 1985.

David Damas, editor. Handhook of North American Indians--Arctic: Volume 5.
862 pages, 579 black-and-white illustrations. Cloth: $29.00. January
1985.

Howard Ensign Evans. The Pleasures of Entomology: Portraits of Insects and
the People Who Study Them. 238 pages, 19 black-and-white illustrations.
Paper:.$14.95. April 1985. :

George Gurney. Sculpture and the Federal Triangle. Introduction hy Joshua
C. Taylor; Foreword by James M. Goode. 464 pages, 261 black-and-white
illustrations. Cloth: $39.95. August 1985.

Lynda Roscoe Hartigan. Sharing Traditions: Five Rlack Artists in
Nineteenth-Century America. Foreword by Charles C. Fldredge. 120 pages,
13 color and 70 black-and-white illustrations. Paper: $14.95. January
1985.
James R. Heintze. Scholars' Guide to Washington, D.C. for Audio

Resources: Sound Recordings in the Arts, Humanities, and Social, Physical,

and Life Sciences. With contributions by Trudi W. Olivetti, Woodrow
Wilson International Center for Scholars. 396 pages. Cloth: $29.95;
Paper: $15.00. May 1985.

Clarence L. "Kelly" Johnson with Maggie Smith. Kelly--More Than My Share
of It All. Foreword by Brigadier General Leo Geary (U.S.A.F. Ret.). 210
pages, 22 black-and-white illustrations. Cloth: $17.50. May 1985.

David B. Lellinger.. A Field Manual of the Ferns and Fern-Allies of the
United States and Canada. 446 pages, 402 color and 26 black-and-white
illustrations. Cloth: $45.00; Paper: $29.95. September 1985.

Leah Lipton. A Truthful Likeness: Chester Harding and His Portraits.
Foreword by Alan Fern. 196 pages, 13 color and 401 black-and-white
illustrations. Paper: $19.95. June 1985.

Robert McCarl. The District of Columbia Fire Fighters' Project: A
Case Study in Occupational Folklife. Foreword hy Thomas Vennum, Jr. 244
pages, 34 black-and-white illustrations. Paper: $9.95. July 1985.

Marie C. Malaro. A Legal Primer on Managing Museum Collections. 366
pages. Cloth: $29.95. August 1985.

Katherine Manthorne. Creation and Renewal: Views of Cotopaxi by Frederic
Edwin Church. Foreword by Charles C. Fldredge; Introduction hy Richard
S. Fiske and Flizabeth Nielsen. 88 pages, 6 color and 52 black-and-white
illustrations, 2 maps. Paper: $14.95. March 1985.

Robert C. Mikesh and Osamu Tagaya. Moonlight Interceptor: The Story of
Japan's "Irving" Night. 112 pages, 4 color and 132 black-and-white
illustrations, 3 maps. Paper: $9.95. June 1985.

Lon O. Nordeen, Jr. Air Warfare in the Missile Aqe. 266 pages, 112
black-and-white illustrations, 2 maps. Cloth: $24.95. August 1985.

Claudia M. Oakes and Kathleen L. Brooks-Pazmany, compilers. Aircraft of
the National Air and Space Museum. Third edition. 76 pages, 373 black-
and-white illustrations. May 1985.

Nathan Reingold, editor. The Papers of Joseph Henry--Volume Five: The
Princeton Years January 1841-December 1843. 500 pages, 246 line cuts, 13
portraits. Cloth: $45.00. September 1985.

Peter T. Rohrbach and Lowell S. Newman. American Issue: The U.S. Postaqde
Stamp, 1842-1869. 232 pages, 109 black-and-white illustrations. Cloth:
$19.95. December 1984.

Richard H. Stroud, editor. National Leaders of American Conservation.
432 pages. Paper: $24.95. June 1985.

Sara D. Toney with the assistance of Sherryl K. Kohr and Deborah FE.
Corsi. Smithsonian Surprises. 96 pages, 75 color and 30 hlack-and-white
illustrations. Paper: $7.95. Auqust 1985.
96

’

Nicholas Fox Weber, Mary Jane Jacob, and Richard S. Field. The Woven and
Graphic Art of Anni Albers. Introduction by Lloyd E. Herman; Foreword by
Anni Albers. 140 pages, 40 color and 88 black-and-white illustrations.
Cloth: $39.95; Paper: $17.50. July 1985.

Nancy Wells-Gosling. Flying Squirrels: Gliders in the Dark. Foreword by
Dorcas MacClintock. 128 pages, 79 black-and-white illustrations, 2
maps. . Cloth: $24.95; Paper: $9.95. August 1985.

Alexander Wetmore, Roger F. Pasquier, and Storrs L. Olson. The Birds of
the Republic of Panama--Part 4, Order Passeriformes, Suborder Passeres,
Hirundinidae (Swallows) to Fringillidae (Finches). 670 pages, 1 color and
49 black-and-white illustrations. Cloth: $29.95. December 1984.

Fred L. Whipple. The Mystery of Comets. 276 pages, 17 color and 119

black-and-white illustrations. Cloth: $24.95; Paper: $12.50. September
1985.

Trade Reprints

Roland W. Brown. Composition of Scientific Words. 882 pages. Cloth:

$24.95. December 1984.

Grace Rogers Cooper. The Sewing Machine: Its Invention and Development.
Revised edition. 238 pages, 216 black-and-white illustrations. Cloth:
$27.50. July 1985.

John C. Ewers. The Horse in Blackfoot Indian Culture. 374 pages, 33
figures, 17 plates. Paper: $15.00. June 1985.

William W. Fitzhugh and Susan A. Kaplan. Inua: Spirit World of the Bering
Sea Eskimo. 295 pages, 8 color and 500 black-and-white illustrations,

maps. Cloth: $35.00; Paper: $19.95. February 1985.

Paul A. Johnsgard. Hummingbirds of North America. 303 pages, 16 color
and. 75 black-and-white illustrations. Cloth: $35.00. December 1984.

John Murdoch. Ethnological Results of the Point Barrow Fxpedition. 450
pages, 428 figures, 2 maps. Paper: $19.95. March 1985.

Allan Needell, editor. The First Twenty-five Years in Space. 165 pages, 5
black-and-white illustrations. Cloth: $12.50. November 1984.

Donald J. Ortner and Walter G. J. Putschar. Identification of Pathological

Conditions in Human Skeletal Remains. 488 pages, 765 figures, 14 tables.

Cloth: $29.95. June 1985.
John J. Protopappas and Lin Brown, editors. Washington on Foot. Third
Edition, revised. 224 pages, 95 black-and-white illustrations, 26 maps.

Paper: $4.95. June 1985.

Tom Simkin and Richard S. Fiske. Krakatau 1882--The Volcanic Eruption and

Its Effects. 464 pages, 49 color and 139 hlack-and-white illustrations.

Cloth: $25.00; Paper: 19.95. October 1984.
John R. Swanton. Indian Tribes of North America. 726 pages, 4 maps.
Paper: $35.00 December 1984.

John R. Swanton. Final Report of the United States De Soto Commission.
400 pages, 12 maps, diagrams. Paper: $19.95. April 1985.

Cyrus Thomas. Report of the Mound Fxplorations of the Bureau of
Fthnology. 742 pages, 41 black-and-white illustrations, 344 figures.
Paper: $25.00. May 1985.

Stephen E. Weil. Beauty and the Beasts: On Museums, Art, the Law, and the
Market. 272 pages. Cloth: $19.95; Paper: $9.95. May 1985.

Frank H. Winter. Prelude to the Space Age--The Rocket Societies:
1924-1940. 222 pages, 52 black-and-white illustrations. Paper: $15.00.
October 1984.

E. T. Wooldridge. Winged Wonders: The Story of the Flying Wings. 230
pages, 224 black-and-white illustrations. Paper: $17.50. June 1985.

DIRECT-MAIL BOOKS
James S. Trefil. Space, Time, Infinity: The Smithsonian Views the

Universe. 256 pages, 257 color and 58 black-and-white illustrations.
Associates: $19.95; Non-Associates: $21.96; Trade: $29.95. June 1985.

ANNUAL REPORTS

American Historical Association Annual Report 1983. 184 pages. January
1985.
Report of the Smithsonian Environmental Research Center October 1, 1983,

through September 30, 1984. 28 pages. July 1985.
Report of the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute October 1, 1983,
through September 30, 1984. 38 pages, 2 black-and-white illustrations.
July 1985. =
Smithsonian Year 1984. 694 pages, 62 black-and-white illustrations. May
1985.

BOOKS

Museum Shops

Official Guide to the Smithsonian Institution. 144 pages, 170 color and 17
black-and-white illustrations. Cloth: $2.95. April 1985 (third printing).

97
Ce

Mational Air and Space Museum

National Air and Space Museum Research Report 1984. 218 pages, 17 color
and 38 black-and-white illustrations, 3 fiqures, 13 tahles, 4 maps.

November 1984.
National Museum of Natural History

Microscopic Properties of Meteorites by G. Tschermak. 144 pages,
and-white illustrations. October 1984.

Office of Fellowships and Grants

25 black-

Smithsonian Opportunities for Research and Study in History, Art, Science.

176 pages. September 1985.

BOOKLETS

Freer Gallery of Art

Eighth Presentation of the Charles Lang Freer Medal. 4 pages, 1

black-and-white illustration. May 1985.

James Smithson Society

James Smithson Society Invitation. 12 pages. June 1985.
James Smithson Society Dinner Program. 28 pages. September 1985.

National Museum of African Art

illustrations. September 1985.
National Museum of American Art

Barney Studio House Information Brochure (Revised). 2 pages, 7

black-and-white illustrations. February 1985.

National Museum of Natural History

1985.<
pages, 4 black-and-white illustrations. February 1985.

National Portrait Gallery

The National Portrait Gallery (Revised). 12 pages, 1 color and 26
black-and- white illustrations. May 1985.

Office of Elementary and Secondary Education

black-and-white illustrations. January 1985.

Education Programs and Resources 1985-1986. 16 pages, 6 black-and-white

The National Museum of Natural History: 75 Years in the New National Museum
by Ellis L. Yoehelson. 24 pages, 29 black-and-white illustrations.

March

National Museum of Natural History/Natural Science Symposium Program. 4

Making Sense: Writing from Objects--A Smithsonian Approach. 8 pages, 4
black-and-white illustrations. November 1984.
Treaty of Paris: The Work of Peace. 43 pages, 1 color and 5
BROCHURES
National Museum of African Art

Igbo Arts: Community and Cosmos. 8 pages, 11 black-and-white
illustrations. July 1985.

National Museum of American Art

National Museum of American Art (calendar of events). 2 pages, 12
black-and- white illustrations. December 1984.

Office of Elementary and Secondary Education
Intern 85. 6 pages, 7 black-and-white illustrations. Movember 1984.
Office of Equal Opportunity
Equal Opportunity Program of the Smithsonian Institution, Washington,
6 pages, 1 black-and-white illustration. August 1985.
How the Discrimination Complaint System Works at the Smithsonian
Institution. 6 pages, 1 black-and-white illustration. June 1985.

Office of Membership and Development

Life-Income Gifts to the Smithsonian Institution: Pooled-Income Fund.
pages, 3 black-and-white illustrations. March 1985.

Office of Museum Programs
On-Site Workshop Program. 4 pages. August 1985.

Smithsonian Institution Libraries

6

Panorama of India. 8 pages, 1 black-and-white illustration. June 1985.

Smithsonian Institution Press

Archives of American Art Journal Circular. 4 pages, 3 black-and-white
illustrations. July 1985.

Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute

Oportunidades de Investigacion en el Tropico: Smithsonian Tropical

Research Institute. 6 pages, 1 color and 2 black-and-white illustrations.

March 1985.

Office of Museum Programs

National Museum Act Guidelines for 1986 Grant Programs. 28 pages. June

1985.

99
Ioo

Office of Personnel Administration

Employment at the Smithsonian Institution. 16 pages, 8 black-and-white

illustrations. June 1985.

Smithsonian Institution Press

American Popular Song: Six Decades of Songwriters and Singers (Reprint).

52 pages, 104 black-and-white illustrations. June 1985.
First Ladies' Hall by Margaret Brown Klapthor (Reprint). 24 pages, 9 color

and 48 black-and-white illustrations. January 1985.

Official White House China: 1918 to the Present by Margaret Brown

Klapthor. 26 pages, 18 color and 2 black-and-white illustrations.

November 1984.

EXHIBITION CATALOGS
Freer Gallery of Art

Islamic Metalwork in the Freer Gallery of Art by Esin Atil, W. T. Chase,

and Paul Jett. 274 pages, 195 black-and-white illustrations. September

1985.

Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden

A New Romanticism: Sixteen Artists from Italy by Howard N. Fox. 124 pages,

46 color and 15 black-and-white illustrations. September 1985.

Representation Abroad by Joe Shannon. 222 pages, 38 color and 138

black-and-white illustrations. May 1985.
Selections from the Collection of Marion and Gustave Ring. 64 pages, 50

color and 1 black-and-white illustrations. September 1985.

National Air and Space Museum

Aircraft of the National Air and Space Museum. 212 pages, 1 color and 342

black-and-white illustrations. June 1985.

National Museum of American Art

Creation and Renewal: Views of Cotopaxi by Frederic Edwin Church by

Katherine Manthorne. Foreword by Charles C. Eldredge; Introduction by
Richard S. Fiske and Elizabeth Nielsen. 88 pages, 6 color and 52
black-and-white illustrations, 2 maps. March 1985. (Distributed by SI
Press)

The Martha Jackson Memorial Collection. 114 pages, 1 color and 137

black-and-white illustrations. June 1985.
Sharing Traditions: Five Black Artists in Nineteenth-Century America by

Lynda Roscoe Hartigan. Foreword by Charles C. Eldredge. 120 pages, 13

color and 70 black-and-white illustrations. January 1985. (Distributed by
SI Press)

National Portrait Gallery

Joseph Wright: American Artist, 1756-1793 by Monroe H. Fabian. 160 pages,

8 color and 49 black-and-white illustrations. April 1985.

Miquel Covarrubias Caricatures by Beverly J. Cox and Denna Jones Anderson.

164 pages, 15 color and 87 black-and-white illustrations. November 1984.
EXHIBITION CHECKLISTS

National Museum of American Art
Alice Pike Barney: Pastel Portraits from Studio House by Jean Lewton. 8
pages, 5 black-and-white illustrations. November 1984.

The Woven and Graphic Art of Anni Albers. 6 pages, 8 black-and-white
illustrations. June 1985.

FLYERS
Freer Gallery of Art

Islamic Metalware. 2 pages. September 1985.
National Air and Space Museum

Space Shuttle (Study Print). 2 pages, 1 black-and-white illustration.
September 1985.

Office of Horticulture

Trees of Christmas. 6 pages, 1 black-and-white illustration, 2 maps.
December 1984.

Smithsonian Institution Press

Smithsonian Institution Press Organization Chart. 1-:page. December 1984.

POSTERS
National Museum of American Art

Continuing Traditions: A Festival of Afro-American Arts. 2 pages, 1 color
and 10 black-and-white illustrations. January 1985.

Office of Fellowships and Grants
Rockefeller Foundation Residency Program in the Humanities 1985-1986. 2
pages. October 1984.
Fellowships in Residence at the Smithsonian Institution. 1 page, 1
black-and-white illustration. August 1985.

Rockefeller Foundation Residency Program in the Humanities 1986-1987. 2
pages. August 1985.

INVITATIONS
Freer Gallery of Art

Eighth Presentation of the Charles Lang Freer Medal. 1 page. May 1985.

IoI
James Smithson Society

James Smithson Society (Invitation to join). 12 pages, 1 hlack-and-white
illustration. November 1984.

National Museum of American Art

The Afro-American Artist in the Nineteenth Century: Darktown Strutters'
Ball. 2 pages. January 1985.

Architecture in Silver. 1 page, 1 color illustration. June 1985.

Forum '85: A Question of Place. 5 pages. January 1985.

Homage to Franz Kline: Photographs by Aaron Siskind. 2 pages. November
1984.

LIFE--The Second Decade, 1946-1955: Years of Challenge, Years of Hope. 6
pages, 1 black-and-white illustration. January 1985.

The Martha Jackson Memorial Collection. 6 pages. May 1985.

Sharing Traditions: Five Black Artists in Nineteenth-Century America. 2
pages. November 1984.

The Woven and Graphic Art of Anni Albers. 6 pages, 2 black-and-white
illustrations. May 1985.

Smithsonian Institution Libraries
Manuscript of the Dibner Collection (reception invitation). 4 pages, 1

black-and-whiteillustration. August 1985.
Panorama of India Exhibition (reception invitation). 1 page. July 1985.

MISCELLANEOUS
Office of Elementary and Secondary Education

Art to Zoo
Let's Go to the Smithsonian

Office of Fellowships and Grants

Directory of Fellows (cover). 2 pages, 1 black-and-white illustration.
August 1985.

Office of Public Affairs

Smithsonian Institution Research Reports, Number 43, Autumn 1984. 8 pages,
13 black-and-white illustrations. October 1984.

Smithsonian Institution Archives

Guide to the Papers of Charles P. Alexander, circa 1870-1982. 1 page.
February 1985.

Smithsonian Institution Libraries

Robert E. Silberglied Bookplate. October 1984.

To2
Smithsonian Institution Press

National Air and Space Museum Archival Videodiscs 1 and 2. May 1985.

SERIES -PUBLICATIONS
Smithsonian Contributions to Botany

55. Patricia G. Palmer, Susan Gerbeth-Jones, and Susan Hutchison. "A
Scanning Electron Microscope Survey of the Epidermis of East African
Grasses, III." 136 pages, 98 black-and-white plates. May 1985.

56. Otto Huber and John J. Wurdack. "History of Botanical Exploration in
Territorio Federal Amazonas, Venezuela." 83 pages, 2 tables, 10 maps.
November 1984.

57. Tatiana Sendulsky and Thomas R. Soderstrom. "Revision of the South
American Genus Otachyrium (Poaceae: Panicoideae)." 29 pages, 7 black-and-
white figures. December 1984.

59. Fernando 0. Zuloaga and Thomas R. Soderstrom. "Classification of the
Outlying Species of New World Panicum (Poaceae: Paniceae)." 63 pages, 25
black-and-white figures, 2 tables. May 1985.

Smithsonian Contributions to the Marine Sciences

24. Brian Kensley. "The Atlantic Barrier Reef Ecosystem at Carrie Bow
Cay, Belize, III: New Marine Isopoda." 8&1 pages, 48 black-and-white
figures. November 1984.

25. R. Craig Shipp, Stephanie A. Staples, and Walter H. Adey.
"Geomorphologic Trends in a Glaciated Coastal Bay: A Model for the Maine
Coast." 76 pages, 44 black-and-white figures, 3 tables. June 1985.

26. Stephen J. Culver and Martin A. Buzas. "Distribution of Recent
Benthic Foraminifera off the North American Pacific Coast from Oregon to
Alaska." 234 pages, 139 black-and-white figures, 2 tables. August 1985.

Smithsonian Contributions to Paleobiology

57. Jessica A. Harrison. "Giant Camels from the Cenozoic of North
America." 29 pages, 17 black-and-white figures. June 1985.

Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology

396. Karl V. Krombein. "Biosystematic Studies of Ceylonese Wasps, XIV: A
Revision of Carinostigmus Tsuneki (Hymenoptera: Sphecoidea:
Pemphredonidae)." 37 pages, 52 black-and-white figures. October 1984.

399. Arthur H. Clarke. "The Tribe Alasmidontini (Unionidae: Anodontinae),
Part II: Lasmigona and Simpsonaias." 75 pages, 22 black-and-white
figures, 14 tables. March 1985.

IO

oo
104

402. W. Ronald Heyer. "Variation, Systematics, and Zoogeography of
Eleutherodactylus guentheri and Closely Related Species (Amphibia: Anura:
Leptodactylidae)." 42 pages, 25 black-and-white figures, 20 tables.
November 1984.

403. Richard S. Houbrick. "Genus Clypeomorus Jousseaume (Cerithiidae:
Prosobranchia)." 131 pages, 62 black-and-white figures, 33 tables. April
1985.

404. Karl V. Krombein and Sandra Shanks Gingras. "Revision of North
American Liris Fabricius (Hymenoptera: Sphecoidea: Larridae)." 96 pages,
49 black-and-white figures. December 1984.

405. John M. Burns. “Evolutionary Differentiation: Differentiating Gold-
banded Skippers--Autochton cellus and More (Lepidoptera: Pyrginae)." 38
pages, 90 black-and-white figures, 3 tables. December 1984.

406. Wayne N. Mathis and Kumar D. Ghorpade. "Studies of Parydrinae
(Diptera: Ephydridae), I: A Review of the Genus Brachydeutera Loew from
the Oriental, Australian, and Oceanic Regions." 25 pages, 27
black-and-white figures. February 1985.

407. Richard C. Froeschner. "Synopsis of the Heteroptera or True Bugs of
the Galapagos Islands." 84 pages, 43 black-and-white figures, 1 table.
May 1985.

408. Louis S. Kornicker. "Sexual Dimorphism, Ontogeny, and Functional
Morphology of Rutiderma hartmani Poulsen, 1965 (Crustacea: Ostracoda)." 28
pages, 20 black-and-white figures. January 1985.

409. Janet R. Gomon and Robert H. Gibbs. "Taxonomy and Distribution of the
Stomioid Fish Genus Eustomias (Melanostomiidae), II: Subgenus
Riradiostomius New Subgenus." 58 pages, 21 black-and-white figures, 5
tables. June 1985.

410. Wayne N. Mathis. "Studies of Parydrinae (Diptera: Ephydridae), II: A
Revision of the Shore Fly Genus Pelinoides Cresson." 46 pages, 59
black-and-white figures. May 1985.

411. Fenner A. Chace, Jr. "The Caridean Shrimps (Crustacea: Decapoda) of
the Albatross Philippine Expedition, 1907-1910, Part 3: Families
Thalassocarididae and Pandalidae." 144 pages, 62 black-and-white figures.

August 1985.

412. Thomas H. Fraser and Ernest A. Lachner. "A Revision of the
Cardinalfish Subgenera Pristiapogon and Zoramia (Genus Apogon) of the Indo-
Pacific Region (Teleosteii, Apogonidae)." 47 pages, 20 black-and-white
figures, 6 tables. May 1985.

414. Karl V. Krombein. "Biosystematic Studies of Ceylonese Wasps, XV: A
Monograph of the Alyssoninae, Nyssoninae, and Gorytinae (Hymenoptera:
Sphecoidea: Nyssonidae)." 43 pages, 39 black-and-white figures. July
1985.
417. S. Dillon Ripley and Bruce Beehler. "Rails of the World: A
Compilation of New Information, 1975-1983 (Aves: Rallidae)." 28 pages, 2
figures. September 1985.

Smithsonian Studies in Air and Space

6. Claudia M. Oakes. "United States Women in Aviation 1930-1939." 70
pages, 71 black-and-white figures. August 1985.

Smithsonian Folklife Studies

4. Robert S. McCarl. "The District of Columbia Fire Fighters' Project: A
Case Study in Occupational Folklife." 241 pages, frontispiece, 33 black-
and-white figures. June 1985.

105
Appendix 6

Publications of the Staff of the Smithsonian Institution
and Its Subsidiaries in Fiscal Year 1985

I06

NATIONAL AIR AND SPACE MUSEUM
Office of the Director

Boyne, W. J. Phantom in Combat. United Kingdom: Jane's Publishing
Company, Limited, 1985.

"Howell Miller Zeta.” Air Line Pilot 53(10) (1984).

"General Aviation G.A. 43.” Air Line Pilot 53(11) (1984).

“Vultee XP-54." Air Line Pilot 53(12) (1984).

"Deeble Double-Action Special.” Air Line Pilot 54(1) (1985).

"Chamberlin C-82." Air Line Pilot 54(2) (1985).

"De Havilland DH-4." Air Line Pilot 54(3) (1985).

"Fairchild XAT-13." Air Line Pilot 54(4) (1985).

"Spratt Controlwing.” Air Line Pilot 54(5) (1985).

“Wheelair.” Air Line Pilot 54(6) (1985).

“Detroit Lockheed XP-900." Air Line Pilot 54(7) (1985).

"Martin XB-48." Air Line Pilot 54(8) (1985).-

“Ackerman Tailless.” Air Line Pilot 54(9) (1985).

“Blame It On Women.” AOPA Pilot 27(10) (1984).

"Forever Used.” AOPA Pilot 27(11) (1984).

"Living History." AOPA Pilot 27(12) (1984).

“The Cutting Edge.“ AOPA Pilot 28(1) (1985).

“Stretching Exercises.” AOPA Pilot 28(2) (1985).

"Armchair Aviation.” AOPA Pilot 28(3) (1985).

“Air and. Space.“ AOPA Pilot 2809) ¢1985)).

"America's DH-4." British Aerospace Quarterly, vol. 7, no. 2,

Summer 1985,

ee ee eo 8 eo fe eo oe ee ee eo 8 e

Office of the Associate Director for Research

Hanle, P. A. “Report of the Associate Director for Research: The
National Air and Space Museum and Scholarship.” In National Air and
Space Museum Research Report 1984, pp. 15-20. Washington, D.C.:
Smithsonian Institution Press, 1984,

“Congress and the Large Space Telescope." In National Air and

Space Museum Research Report 1984, pp. 85-95. Washington, D.C.:

Smithsonian Institution Press, 1984,

“Astronomers, Congress, and the Large Space Telescope.” Sky &
Telescope, pp. 300-305, April 1985.

Smith, R. W. “Studies of the Milky Way 1850-1930: Some
Highlights." In The Milky Way Galaxy by H. van Woerden, R. J. Allen
and B. Barton, pp. 43-58. Dordrehct: D. Reidel 1985.

- "Heavenly Motions." In The Times Higher Educational Supplement,
p. 19. November 26, 1984.

- Review of Eddington by S. Chandrasekhar. Physics Today, 38
(1985):88-89.,

Review of Frame of the Universe by F. Durham and R. D.
Purrington. Isis, 715 (1984):593:.

Review of Glimpsing an Invisible Universe by Richard Hirsh.
Journal for the History of Astronomy, 16 (1985):142-143.

Smith, R. W. with Tatarewicz, J. N. “Replacing a Technology: The
Large Space Telescope and CCD's." In Proceedings of the IEEE 73
C1985) 31 221= 1.235%.

Office of Aerospace Education and Publications

National Air and Space Museum Publications Catalogue. Describes the
publications produced by the museum, plus videodiscs and educational
filmstrips.

National Air and Space Museum Research Report 1984. Contributions by
NASM staff and visiting scholars. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian
Institution Press, 1984,

Office of Public Affairs and Museum Services

Cipalla, R. "The Video-Disk Advantage." History News 40(8) (1985).

Women in Aviation and Space. A brochure describing the contributions of
women in the fields of air and space.

National Air and Space Museum Events. Published monthly, this calendar
~highlights lectures, films and exhibition openings and includes
feature articles each month relating to air and space.

Center for Earth and Planetary Studies

Andre, C. G. "Orbital Multispectral Thermal Infrared Data: Geological
Applications.” In National Air and Space Museum Research Report 1984,
pp. 149-59. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1984,

- [Summary]. “Detection of Regional Structural Features in
Sedimentary Basins Using Thermal Infrared Thematic Mapper Data." In
International Symposium on Remote Sensing of Environment, Fourth
Thematic Conference: Remote Sensing for Exploration Geology, p. 8l.
Environmental Research Institute of Michigan, 1984,

Andre, C. G. and Blodget, H. W. “Thermal IR Satellite Data for the
Study of Tectonic Features.” Geophysical Research Letters ll
(1984) :983-86.

Andre, C. G., Blodget, H. W., and Minor, T. B. [Abstract]. "Surface
Composition Mapping with Thermal IR Data From the Nimbus-5 and NOAA-7
Satellites.” In Geological Society of America GSA Abstracts with
Programs 16 (1984):430.

Andre, C. G., Blodget, H. W., and Marcell, R. F. [Abstract]. "Volcanism
and Faulting Related to the Red Sea/Gulf of Aden Tectonism: The
Thermal Infrared Satellite View." EOS 66 (1985):377.

. [Abstract]. “Geologic Applications of Thermal Infrared Data From
the NIMBUS-5, NOAA-7 and Landsat 4 Satellites.” In NOAA Envirosat-85
Meeting: Hydrologic and Land Sciences Applications of NOAA
Polar-Orbiting Satellite Data, p. 19. Washington, D.C.: September
1985.

Blodget, H. W., Andre, C. G., and Marcell, R. F. [Summary]. “Comparative
Assessment of Multispectral Satellite Thermal Infrared Data for Rock
Discrimination in Basement, Volcanic and Sedimentary Terrains.” In
International Symposium on Remote Sensing of Environment, Fourth
Thematic Conference: Remote Sensing for Exploration Geology, p. 57.
Environmental Research Institute of Michigan, 1984.

107
we

Jacobberger, P. A. [Abstract]. "Morphology and Changes in Surface
Hydrology in the Upper Inland Niger Delta, Mali.” In Geological
Society of America Abstracts with Programs 16 (1984):549.

. [Abstract]. “Changes in Surface Hydrology in the Upper
Inland Niger Delta of Mali as a Function of Drought.” EOS 66
(1985) :262.

Maxwell, T. A., and Watters, T. R. "“Photogeology of Structural Landforms
in the Tharsis Region of Mars." In National Air and Space Museum
Research Report 1984, pp. 135-47. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian
Institution Press, 1984.

Maxwell, T. A., Frey, H., and Semeniuk, A. [Abstract]. "Geomorphology
and Evolution of the Ancient Cratered Terrain - Smooth Plains Boundary
of Mars." In Geological Society of America Abstracts with Programs 16
(1984) :586.

Maxwell, T. A. and Corrigan, J. D. [Abstract]. “Investigations of the
Mars Cratered Terrain - Smooth Plains Boundary in the Eastern
Equatorial Region.” In Reports of Planetary Geology Program - 1984,
pp. 350-51. NASA TM-87563, 1985.

Maxwell, T. A. and Watters, T. R. [Abstract]. "The Mars Ancient Cratered
Terrain - Smooth Plains Boundary: Implications of Viking Color Data
for the Amenthes Region.” In Lunar and Planetary Science XVI, pp.
526-27. Houston: The Lunar and Planetary Institute, 1985.

Watters, T. R. and Maxwell, T. A. [Abstract]. "Mechanisms of
Basalt-plains Ridge Formation.” In Reports of Planetary Geology
Program — 1984, pp. 479-81. NASA TM-87563, 1985.

Watters, T. R. [Abstract]. "Fold Model for Ridges of the Tharsis Region
of Mars.” In Lunar and Planetary Science XVI, pp. 897-98. Houston:
The Lunar and Planetary Institute, 1985.

Department of Aeronautics

Brooks-Pazmany, K. L. and Oakes, C. M., comp. Aircraft of the
National Air and Space Museum (3rd ed. rev.) Washington, D.C.:
Smithsonian Institution Press, 1985,

Crouch, T. D. “Flight and the Founding Fathers.” National Air and
Space Museum Research Report 1984, pp.27-46. Washington, D.C.:
Smithsonian Institution Press, 1984.

- “Taking to the Air." Science 84 5(11)(1984).

. "“Wingding at Oshkosh." National Geographic Traveler
2(2)(1985).

“A Practical Flying Machine: The 1905 Wright Flyer." Timelines
(Summer )(1985).

Davies, R. E. G. “Marcel Bouilloux-Lafont: Airline Pioneer
Extraordinaire.” National Air and Space Museum Research Report 1984,
pp. 47-62. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1984.

Grosz, P. M. “Some Reflections on Austro-Hungarian Aviation in World
War I." National Air and Space Museum Research Report 1984,
pp. 63-77. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1984.

Mikesh, R. C. The Great Book of World War II Airplanes. Tokyo:

Bonanza Books, 1984.
“Veteran From Vietnam." Air Combat (Winter)(1984).

Mikesh, R. C. and Osamu, T. Moonlight Interceptor: Japan's “Irving”
Night Fighter. Famous Aircraft of the National Air and Space Museum
Series, no. 8. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1985.

Oakes, C. M. United States Women in Aviation 1930-1939, Smithsonian
Studies in Air and Space, no. 6. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian
Institution Press, 1985.

Schneide, K. S. and Grosz, P. M. “Cockburn-Lange Hoax Exposed.”
World War I Aeroplanes. Part I, 102(December)(1984). Part II,
103(February) (1985).

van der Linden, F. R. and Winter, F. “Out of the Past." Aerospace
America. (Monthly Column).

Department of Space Science and Exploration

Collins, M. J. [with S. G. Brush and H. E. Landsberg] The History of
Geophysics and Meteorology: An Annotated Bibliography. New York:
Garland Publishing, Inc., 1985. :

DeVorkin, D. H. “Stars: Augmenting a National Collection in Space
Astronomy." In National Air and Space Museum Research Report, 1984,
pp. 169-172. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1985.

. "Electronics in Astronomy: Early Applications of the Photoelectric
Cell and Photomultiplier for Studies of Point Source Celestial
Phenomena. In Proceedings of the IEEE vol. 73, no. 7 (July,
1985):21205,.

DeVorkin, D. H. and Collins, M. J. Space Astronomy Oral History Project
Catalog. Washington, D.C.: National Air and Space Museum, 1985.

109
Ito

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY

Department of Anthropology

Adovasio, J. M., and Andrews, R. L. Basketry and
Miscellaneous Perishable Artifacts from Walpi Pueblo,
Arizona. Introduction to the Walpi Archaeological Project
by E. Charles Adams. Edited by R. C. Carlisle. Ethnology
Monographs, no. 7. Pittsburgh.

Adovasto>7,0.,M.3) Carlisle, R. C.; Cushman;>K. As: Donahuey J2%
Guilday, J. E.; Johnson, W. C.; Lord, L.: Parmalee, P. W.:;
Stuckenrath, R.; and Wiegmann, P. "Paleoenvironmental
Reconstruction at Meadowcroft Rockshelter, Washington
County, Pennsylvania." In Environments and Extinctions:
Man _ in the Late Glacial North America (1985). Edited by
J. I. Mead and D. J. Meltzer. Peopling of the America
Series, Center- for the Study of Barly Man: “Orono:
University of Maine.

Adovias0 wa. M.¢ Boldurtan. Az T..;-and Carlisle; R. Cz
"Archaeological Research Activities of the University of

Pittsburgh in 1984." Current Research in the Pleistocene 2
(L9BS): 3-5.

Albanese, John P. "Geology of the Dead Indian Creek Site." In
The Dead Indian Creek Site: An Archaic Occupation in the
Absaroka Mountains of Northwestern Wyoming. Edited by

George C. Frison and Danny N. Walker. Wyoming
Archaeologist 27 (1984): 101-110.

"Geological Investigation at 48 FR 1398." In
Archaeological Salvage at 48 FR 1398: The Castle Gardens
Access Road Site, Fremont County, Wyoming. Edited by
Danny N. Walker and Lawrence C. Todd. Occasional Papers on
Wyoming Archaeology, no. 2 (1984): 65-74. Laramie:
Office of the Wyoming State Archaeologist.

Andrews, R. L.; Adovasio, J. M.; and Carlisle, R. C.
"Perishables from Dirty Shame Rockshelter, Malheur County,
Oregon." University of Oregon Anthropological Papers,

Noe 3.461985) Eugene, Oregon.

Angel, J. Lawrence. "Varlation in Estimating Age at Death of
Skeletons." Collegium Anthropologicum 8 (2)(1984):
163-167.

"The Forensic Pathologist's Examination." The
Pathologist 39 (5)(1985).

Arnoldi, Mary Jo. "The Artistic Heritage of Somalia."
African Arts 27 (4)(August 19984): 24-33 (notes, 93).

To be reprinted as the Introductory Essay in Somalia in

Word and Image. Bloomington, Indiana: Indiana University
Press.

Bentley, Gillian R. "Hunter-Gatherer Energetics and
Fertility: A Reassessment of the !Kung San." Human
Ecology 13 (1985 79-109.

~
Berinstein, Ava. "Evidence for Multiattachment in K'ekchi
Mayan." Outstanding Dissertations in Linguistics (1985).
New York: Garland Publishing.

Brooks, Alison S. "The Tangled Wing: Biology and Human
Destiny." Anthro-Notes 6 (3)(1984): 4-6.

"San Land-use Strategies, Past and Present:
Implications for Southern African Prehistory." In
Frontiers: Southern African Archaeology Today (1984):
40-52. Edited by M. Hall, et al. Cambridge Monographs in
African Archaeology 10, BAR International Series 207.
Oxford.

"South African Director Meets Noble Savage."
Anthro-Notes 7 (1)(1985): 5-6.

Brooks, Alison S.; Gelburd, Diane E.; and Yellen, John E.
"Food Production and Culture Change Among the !Kung San:
Implications for Prehistoric Research." In From Hunters to
Farmers: The Causes and Consequences of Food Production in
Africa (1984): 293-310. Edited by J. Desmond Clark and
Steven A. Brandt. Berkeley: University of California
Press.

Burch, Ernest S., Jr., ed. "The Central Yupik Eskimos."
Etudes/Inuit/Studies 8 (1984). Supplemental Issue.

"The Central Yupik Eskimos: An Introduction."
Etudes/Inuit/Studies 8 (1984): 3-19. Supplemental Issue.

"Kotzebue Sound Eskimo." In Handbook of North
American Indians. Edited by William C. Sturtevant. Arctic
5 (1984): 303-319. Edited by David Damas. Washington,
D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press.

"The Land Claims Era in Alaska." In Handbook of North
American Indians. Edited by William C. Sturtevant. Arctic
5 (1984): 657-661. Edited by David Damas. Washington,

D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press.
Cheek, Annetta L.; Cheek, Keel; and Cheek, Bennie C. "Value
Conflicts in Osteo-Archaeology." In Ethics and Values in

Archaeology (1984): 194-207. Edited by
Ernestine L. Green. New York: The Free Press.

Clark, Donald W., and Goddard, R. H. Ives III. "Synonymy."
In "Pacific Eskimo: Historical Ethnography." Handbook of
North American Indians . Edited by W. Sturtevant. In
Arctic 5 (1984)[1985]: 195-196. Edited by David Damas.
Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press.

Cordova, Fred. "Filipinos: Forgotten Asian Americans, a
Pictorial Essay/1763-circa-1963" (1983). Dubuque, Iowa:
Kendall/Hunt Publishing Co.

III
Crocker, William H.

Folk Literature of the Gé Indians 2:

J. Wilbert and K.
58. Los Angeles:

"The Legend
Literature of the
J. Wilbert and K.
58. Los Angeles:

"Awkéé." In
97-106.

Edited by J. Wilbert and K.
American Studies 58.

"The Legend of the Sun and the Moon."
17-32. Edited by
Simoneau. UCLA Latin American Studies
UCLA Latin American Center Publications.
of the Great Cotton Boll." In Folk
Gé Indians 2: 50-52. Edited by
Simoneau. UCLA Latin American Studies
UCLA Latin American Center Publications.
Folk Literature of the Gé Indians 2:
Simoneau. UCLA Latin
UCLA Latin American

In

Los Angeles:

Center Publications.

"The Myth of Kruwapu." In Folk Literature of the Gé
Indians 2: 195-203. Edited by J. Wilbert and
K. Simoneau. UCLA Latin American Studies 58. Los
Angeles: UCLA Latin American Center Publications.

"The Story of a Woman Shaman During a Cakamekra War."
In Folk Literature of the Gé Indians 2: 354-356. Edited

by J. Wilbert and K. Simoneau. UCLA Latin American Studies

58. Los Angeles: UCLA Latin American Center Publications.
. "Pep." In Folk Literature of the Gé Indians 2:

356-358. Edited by J. Wilbert and K. Simoneau. UCLA Latin

American Studies 58.
Center Publications.
East, T.; Adovasio, J. M.; and Carlisle, R. C. Phase III
Cultural Resource Management Excavations at Site 36CO9,
Columbia County, Pennsylvania: An Executive Summary (April
11, 1985). A report prepared by the Cultural Resource
Management Program for a Meeting with the Secretary of

Los Angeles: UCLA Latin American

Transportation, Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. Harrisburg,
Pennsylvania.
East ;clss) Jorstad, T. F£:5 Adovasio, J: Ms: Donahue, J.

Carlisle, Rk. C.s. FLtzqibbons; “P.-T. > and Baker, 1:

Archaeological Investigations on Cinnamon Creek Ridge,

McKenzie County, North Dakota. A report prepared under the
supervision of J. M. Adovasio, Ph.D., Principal

Investigator. Submitted to the USDA Forest Service, Custer
National Forest under the terms of a Letter of Agreement of
October 6, 1980. Final Report, April 5, 1985.

El-Najjar, M.; Aufderheide, A.; and Ortner, D. J. "Preserved
Human Remains from the Southern Region of the North
American Continent: A Report of Autopsy Findings."
Pathology 16 (1985): 273-276.

Fitzhugh, William W. "“Paleo-Eskimo Cultures of Greenland."
In Handbook of North American Indians. Arctic 5 (1984):

Human

528-539. Edited by David Damas.

"Archeological Finds in Labrador." The Labradorian
ll (1984): 43-509.

"Pioneers of Labrador." Thems Days 10 (2)(1984):

4-28.
Frison, George C. "Avocational Archaeology: Its Past,
Present, and Future." In Ethics and Values in Archaeology
(1984): 184-193. Edited by Ernestene L. Green.

New York: The Free Press.

"The Carter/Kerr-McGee Paleoindian Site: Cultural
Resource Management and Archaeological Research." American
Antiquity 49 (2)(1984): 288-314.

"The Dead Indian Creek Site: An Archaic Occupation
in the Absaroka Mountains of Northwestern Wyoming." Edited
by George C. Frison and Danny N. Walker." Wyoming
Archaeologist 27 (1-2)(1984): 11-122.

Goddard, R. H. Ives III. "The Obviative in Fox Narrative
Discourse." In Papers of the Fifteenth Algonquian

Conference (1984)[1985]: 273-286. Edited by
William Cowan. Ottawa: Carleton University.

"Synonymy." In "Introduction." Handbook of North
American Indians 5 (1984): 5-7. Edited by W. Sturtevant.
In Arctic. Edited by David Damas. Washington, D.C.:
Smithsonian Institution Press.

"Technical Alphabet." Handbook of North American
Indians 5 (1984): x-xi. Edited by W. Sturtevant. In
Arctic. Edited by David Damas. Washington, D.C.:
Smithsonian Institution Press.

Handbook of North American Indians. Edited by
W. Sturtevant. Arctic 5 (1984). Linguistic edition.

Edited by David Damas. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian
Institution Press.

Gordon, Kathleen D. "The Assessment of Jaw Movement Direction
from Dental Microwear." American Journal of Physical

Anthropology 63 (1)(1984): 77-84.
"Taphonomy of Dental Microwear, II."

American Journal of Physical Anthropology 63 (2)(1984):
164-165. (Abstract. )

"Difficulties in Using Silicone Elastomeres for

Surface Replication." Journal of Microscopy 134
(2) (1984); 183-188.

"Hominoid Dental Microwear: Complications in the Use
of Microwear Analysis to Detect Diet." Journal of Dental

Research 63 (8)(1984): 1043-1046.
"Using Dental Microwear to Detect Orientation of

Occlusal Contacts." Archives of Oral Biology 29
(10) (1984): 783-787.
Houchins, Chang-su. "The Magic of the Korean Tiger." Korean

Culture 5 (4)(December 1984): 28-37. Los Angeles.
"Miguk eso palgyondoen Kojong ch'osang yuhwa [A
Portrait of King Kojong in the Smithsonian Collections]."

Kyegan Misul (Arts Quarterly)34 (Seoul)(Summer 1985):
104-9. :

II3
II4

Hughes, Charles C., and Goddard, R. H. Ives III.
"Synonymy." In "Siberian Eskimo" and "Saint Lawrence
Island Eskimo." Handbook of North American Indians.
Edited by W. Sturtevant. In Arctic 5 (1984): 259-60,
276-77. Edited by David Damas. Washington, D.C.:
Smithsonian Institution Press.

Kaeppler, Adrienne L. "Foreword." In Siapo: Samoan Bark
Cloth by Mary Pritchard (1984): vi-vii. Pago Pago: Arts
Council of American Samoa.

e . “Hawaiian Art and Society: Traditions and
Transformations." In Transformations of Polynesian

Culture. Edited by Antony Hooper and Judith Huntsman.
Memoir 45 (1985): 105-131. Auckland, New Zealand: The
Polynesian Society.

"Traditional Transmission and the Transmission of
Tradition in Polynesian Dance." In Becoming Human Through
Music: The Wesleyan Symposium on the Perspectives of

Social Anthropology in the Teaching and Learning of Music
(1985): 29-42. Reston: Music Educators National

Conference.

Karp, Ivan. "Deconstructing Culture-Bound Syndromes." Social
Science and Medicine 21 (2)(1985): 221-228.

Keel, Bennie C., and Egloff, Brian J. "The Cane Creek Site,
Mitchell County, North Carolina." Southern Indian Studies
33 (1984): 3-44.

Kleivan, Inge, and Goddard, R. H. Ives III. "Synonymy." In
"West Greenland Before 1950." Handbook of North American

Indians. Edited by W. Sturtevant. In Arctic 5 (1984):
620. Edited by David Damas. Washington, D.C.:
Smithsonian Institution Press.

Knez, Eugene, Scholars in Korean Studies. "Eugene Knez, Korea
and Korean Studies." Korean and Korean-American Studies
Bulletin 1 (2/3)(1985): 1O=—12. New Haven: HRAF.

Lantis, Margaret, and Goddard, R. H. Ives III. "Synonymy."

In "Nunivak Eskimo." Handbook of North American Indians.
Edited by W. Sturtevant. In Arctic 5. (1984) 2 (2222). Edited
by David Damas. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution
Press.

Laughlin, Robert M. "La Rama Dorada: Magia y Botanica en
Zinacantan." In Investigaciones Receintes en el Area Maya,

XVII Mesa Redonda, Sociedad Mexicana-de Antropologia 1
(1984): 349-355.

Ledergerber, Paulina. "Tesis en Antropologia Ecuatoriana
Aprobadas por Universidades del Canada y los Estados

Unidos." Miscela-Antropologica Ecuatoriana, Ano 3
C3 "C98 4 )*.
Meggers, Betty J. "The Indigenous Peoples of Amazonia, Their
Cultures, Land Use Patterns and Effects on the Landscape

and Biota." In The Amazon, Limnology and Landscape Ecology

of a Mighty Tropical River and Its Basin (1984): 627-648.
Edited by Harald Sioli. Dordrecht, Boston, and Lancaster:

Dr. W. Junk Publishers.

"Advances in Brazilian Archaeology, 1935-1985."
American Antiquity 50 (1985): 364-373.

"Archaeology: South America." Handbook of Latin
American Studies 45 (1985): 63-93. Austin: University of
Texas Press.

Merrill, William. "Rites: L'univers Religieux des Indiens
Tarahumaras." In GEO (Paris) (May 1983): 132-144.
Michael, Franz. "Rule by Incarnation: Tibetan Buddhism and

Its Role in Society and State" (1982). In collaboration
with Eugene Knez, assisted by Lobsang Lhalungpa and Tashi
Densapa. Boulder: Westview Press.

Milanich, Jerald T.; Chapman, J.; Cordell, A. S.; Hale, S.;

and Marrinan, R. "Towards an Understanding of the
Prehistoric Development of Calusa Society in Southwest
Florida--Excavations on Useppa Island, Lee County." In

Perspectives on Gulf Coast Prehistory, 258-314. Edited by

Dave D. Davis. Ripley P. Bullen Monographs in Anthropology
and History 5 (1984). Gainesville: University Presses of

Florida.

Milanich, Jerald T.; Cordell, A. S.; Sigler-Lavelle, B. J.;
Kohler, T. A.:; and Knight, V. J.  McKeithen Weeden
Island--The Culture of Northern Florida, A.D. 200-900
(1984). New York: Academic Press.

Ortner, Donald J. "Bone Lesions in a Probable Case of Scurvy
from Matlatavik, Alaska." MASCA 3 (1984): 79-81.

"Possible Mycotic Infection in Three Archeological
Cases from Alaska." Papers on Paleopathology. Presented
at the 12th Annual Meeting of the Paleopathology
Association (1985): 9-10. (Abstract. )
Owsley, D. W.; Ortner, D. J.; and Mires, A. M. "Case Report

No. 4." Paleopathology Newsletter 49 (1985):. 7-8.
Parks, Douglas R., and Wedel, Waldo R. "Pawnee Geography:

Historical and Sacred." In Great Plains Quarterly 5
(1985): 143-176.

Potts, Richard. "Home Bases and Early Hominids." American
Scientist 72 (1985): 338-347.

"Hominid hunters? Problems of Identifying the
Earliest Hunter-gatherers." In Hominid Evolution and
Community Ecology (1985): 129-166. Edited by R. Foley.
London: Academic Press.
2 "L'homme, ce charognard." La Recherche 16 (1985):

685-686. :

II5
Powell, Mary L. "The Analysis of Dental Wear and Caries for
Dietary Reconstruction." In The Analysis of Prehistoric
Diets (1985): 307-338. Edited by R. I. Gilbert and
J. H. Mielke. San Diego: Academic Press.

"Differential Diagnosis of Treponematosis in the
Southeastern Mississippian Population at Moundville,
Alabama." American Journal of Physical Anthropology 66
(1985): 215-216.

"Health, Disease and Social Organization in the
Mississippi Community at Moundville" (1985). Ann Arbor:
University Microfilms.

Rose, Carolyn L. "Ethnographic Conservation in the United
States." First Newsletter of the International Council of
Museums Working Group on Ethnographic Conservation
(Calgary) (1985): 13-14.

"Leather Conservation in the Anthropology
Conservation Laboratory at the National Museum of Natural
History." Leather Conservation Refresher Course
Proceedings (1985): 83-84. Washington, D.C.: American
Institute for Conservation.

Rose, C.; Raphael, B.; Lechtman, H.; Singley, K.; and
Allardt, A. "Ethnographic and Archaeological Conservation
in the United States" (1984): 20 pages.

Washington, D.C.: National Institute for the Conservation
of Cultural Property.

Rose, C.; Weisser, T.; Ford, R.; Lechtman, H.; and Sterud, E.
"Suggested Curriculum for Training in Ethnographic and
Archaeological Conservation." National Institute for the
Conservation of Cultural Property. Washington, D.C.
(1984): 20 pages. In Student Training Conference Papers.
Los Angeles: Getty Institute for Conservation.

Schmidt, Dwight... “The Old Réd Bricks: Insight. for: the
Living." Anthro-Notes 7 (2)(Spring 1985).

Smith, Bruce D. Introduction to the 1985 Edition. Report on

the Mound Explorations of the Bureau of Ethnology, by
Cyrus Thomas (originally published in 1894). Seventh

reprint in the Classics of Smithsonian Anthropology series
(1985). Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press.

"The Role of Chenopodium as a Domesticate in
Pre-maize Garden Systems of the Eastern United States."
Southeastern Archaeology 4 (1985).

Smith, B. D., and Funk, V. "A Newly Described Subfossil
Cultivar of Chenopodium (Chenopodiaceae)." Phytologia
GLESI8 5).

Stanford, Dennis J. "The Jones-Miller Site: A Study of Hell
Gap Bison Procurement and Processing." National Geographic
Society Research Reports 16 (1985): 615-635.

Stanford, Dennis J., and Graham, R. "A Report on Karst
Studies in the Peoples! Republic of China." The National

Speleological Society Bulletin 45 (1985): 79-81.
Stanford, Dennis J., and Haynes, G. "On the Possible
Utilization of Camelops by Early Man in North America." In
Taphonomic Analysis and Interpretation in North American
Pleistocene Archeology. Edited by E. James Dixon.
Quaternary Research 22 (1985): 216-230.

Stanford, Dennis J., and Patton, R. "R-6, A Preliminary
Report of a Cody Complex Site in North Central New

Mexico." Papers of the Philmont Conference on the
Archeology of Northeastern New Mexico Proceedings 6

(1)(1985): 187-199. Edited by Carol Condie.
Sturtevant, William C., ed. Arctic. Handbook of North
American Indians 5 (1984). Edited by David Damas.

Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press.
"Foreword." In Final Report of the United States De

Soto Expedition Commission, by John R. Swanton (1985):
v-ix. Classics of Smithsonian Anthropology. Washington,
D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press.

"Views of a New World [and] America from Drake's
Quarterdeck: Sixteenth-century Drawings from

Sir Francis Drake's Voyages...." American Heritage 36
(5),G19'8'5)).: 82-92.
Sturtevant, William C., and Meltzer, David J. "The Holly Oak
Pendant." Science 227 (4684)(Jan. 18, 1985): 242, 244.
Taylor, Paul M. "Tobelorese Deixis." Anthropological

Linguistics 6 (Spring 1984): 77 102-122:
"Covert Categories Reconsidered: Identifying
Unlabeled Classes in Tobelo Folk Biological

Classification." Journal of Ethnobiology 4 (2)(1985):
105-122.

"The Indonesian Collections of William Louis Abbott
(1860-1936): Invitation to a Research Resource at the

Smithsonian Institution." Council for Museum Anthropology
Newsletter 9 (2)(1985): 5-14.

Trinkaus, Erik, and Stewart, T. D. "The Shanidar 3
Neanderthal; a Fragmentary Skeleton from Fhanidar Cave,
Northern Iraq." Sumer, a Journal of Archaeology and
History in the Arab World 36 (1980): 9-35. Baghdad, Iraq.

Trousdale, William. "Buddhistiche Kloster am Hilmend-Fluss."
Aus den Osten des Alexanderreichs (Festschrift fiir Klaus
Fischer). K6ln (1984): 143-153.

Trousdale, William, ed. The Gordon Creeds in Afghanistan,
1839 and 1878-79 (1984): 189. London.

Ly,
Ubelaker, Douglas H. "Prehistoric Human Biology of Ecuador:
Possible Temporal Trends and Cultural Correlations." In
Paleopathology at the Origins of Agriculture, chapter 19
(1984): 491-513. Edited by Mark N. Cohen and
George J. Armelagos. New York: Academic Press.

"Positive Identification from the Radiographic
Comparison of Frontal Sinus Patterns." In Human
Identification (1984): 399-411. Edited by T. Rathbun and
J. Buikstra. Springfield: Charles C. Thomas.

Human Skeletal Remains, Excavation, Analysis,
Interpretation. Revised Edition (1984): 119 pages.
Washington: Taraxacum.

. “A Discussion of Mid-Atlantic Ossuaries." In The
Accokeek Creek Complex and the Emerging Maryland Colony
(1984). Accokeek, Maryland: Alice Ferguson Foundation.

"Huesos Humanos y Arqueologia." Miscelania
Antropologica Ecuatoriana. Boletin de los Museos del Banco
Central del Ecuador 3 (1984): 117-142.

Ubelaker, Douglas H.; Bass, William M.; Jantz, Richard L.; and
Fred H. Smith. A Review of Human Origins. Revised fifth
edition (1984): 92 pages: Knoxville.

Van Stone, J. W., and Goddard, R. H. Ives III. "Synonymy."
In "Mainland Southwest Alaska Eskimo." Handbook of North
American Indians. Edited by W. Sturtevant. In Arctic 5
(1984): 241-242.. Edited by David Damas.

Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press.
Von Endt, D. W., and Ortner, D. J. “Experimental Effects of
Bone Size and Temperature on Bone Diagenesis." Journal of

Archaeological Science 11 (1984): 247-253.

Webb, S. D.; Milanich, J. P=; Alexon, R.; -and Dunbar, J:
"BR Bison Antiquus Kill Site, Wacissa River, Jefferson
County, Florida." American Antiquity 49 (1984): 384-392.

Department of Botany

Banerjee, S$; Jakupovic, J.; Bohlmann, F.; King, R. M.; and
Robinson, H. "A Rearranged Eudesmane and Further
Verbesindiol Derivatives from Verbesina eqgersii."
Phytochemistry 24 (5)(1985): 1106-1108.

Blair, S. M., and Norris, J. N. "Deep-Water Caribbean Species
of Halimeda (Udoteaceae): Observations of Depth
Distributions and Morphology." Journal of Phycology 21
(Suppl.) (1985): 5.

Bohlmann, F.; Ahmed, M.; Jakupovic, J.; King, R. M.; and
Robinson, H. "Three Kolavane Derivatives and 2
Beta-Angeloyloxy Himachanolide from Acritopappus
longifolius." Rev. Latinoamer. Quim. 15 (1)(1984): 1618.
Bohlmann, F.; Banerjee, $.; Jakupovic, J

Bohlmann, F.; Jakupovic, J.; Zdero, C

Bohlmann, F.; Jakupovic, J.; Hartono, L

Bohlmann, F.; Schmeda-Hirschmann, G.; Jakupovic, J

Bohlmann, F.; Ang, W.; King, R. M.: and Robinson, H.

"A Further Steiractinolide from Wedelia grandiflora."
Phytochemistry 23 (9)(1984): 2069-2070.

-; Grenz, M:;
Misra, L. N.; Schmeda-Hirschmann, Gi; King, R. M.; and

Robinson, H. "Clerodane and Labdane Diterpenoids from
Baccharis Species." Phytochemistry 24 (3)(1985): 511-515.
Bohlmann, F.; Banerjee, S.; Jakupovic, J.; King, R. M.; and
Robinson, H. "Bisabolene Derivatives and Acetylenic
Compounds from Peruvian Coreopsis Species." Phytochemistry

24 (6)(1985): 1295-1297.

Bohlmann, F.; Banerjee, S.; Wolfrum, C.; Jakupovic, J.;

King, R. M.; and Robinson, H. "Sesquiterpene Lactones,
Geranylnerol and Tremetone Derivatives from Ageratina
Species ."s 9Phytochenmistry 24 (6)%". 1319-2321"

Bohimann7 7F.? >Castrol Vit: Zdero, “C.s"-King?"R:*M?> “and

Robinson, H. "New Furanoeremphilanes from Senecio
Species." Rev. Latinoamer. Quim. 14 (3)(1984): 101-103.

Bohlmann, F.; Grenz, M.; Jakupovic, J.:; King, R. M.; and

Robinson, H. "New Labdane Derivatives and Other
Constituents from Fleischmannia viscidioes." Rev.
Latinoamer. Quim. 15 (1)(1984): 1-3.

oo. Kang, OR Mes oand
Robinson, H. "Onognaphalin, a Further 5-Methyl Coumarin
from Onoseris gnaphalioides." Phytochemistry 24
(6)(1985): 1392-1393.

.: King, R. M.; and
Robinson, H. "A Further Steiractinolide Derivative from

Spilanthes leiocarpa." Phytochemistry 24 (5)(1985):
1100-1101.

Bohlmann; F..:-Jakupovic, J.; Schuster; ‘Avy King, R. M>; “and

Robinson, H. "Germacranolide, Hydroxyverbenon Und
Ent-Kaur-15(16)-en-17, 19-Disaure aus Helianthus
occidentalis var. dowellianus." Planta Medica 1984
(2)(1984): 202?

"Homogeranyl Nerol Derivatives and a Melampolide from

Smallanthus glabratus." Phytochemistry 24 (6)(1985):

1309-1313.

Bohlmann, F.; Misra, L. N.; Jakupovic, J.; Robinson, H.; and

King, R. M. "New Sesquiterpene Lactone Type from Dugaldia
hoopesi." Journal of Natural Products 47 (4)(1984):
658-662.

Bohimann, F.7 “Mista,L. “Ni; dakupovicy J.7 King, R-°M.; and

Robinson, H. "Guaianolide A-Arabinopyranosides from
Helenium amarum." Phytochemistry 24 (6)(1985): PS ES = 138.
King, R. M.; and Robinson, H. "Germacranolides from

Gochnatia vernonioides." Phytochemistry 23 (9)(1984):
1989-1993.

II9
I20

Bohimann, Fos oTrinks, «C. 3 Jakupovic,.Js). King sak. OMe s cand

Robinson, H. "Isolation of a Guaianolide from
Symphyopappus compressus." Planta Medica 1984 (3)(1984):
276-277.

. "A Further Guaianolide from Kaunia arbuscularis."
Planta Medica 1984 (3)(1984): 284.

Bohlmann, F.; Wallmeyer, M.; Jakupovic, J.; Gerke, T.;

King, R. M.; and Robinson, H. "Cuauthemone
Sesquiterpenoids from Blumea alata." Phytochemistry 24
(3)(1985): 505-509. Z

Bohimann, F.s Wolfrum, C.;. Jakupovic;2d.7; .King}.-ResMes sand
Robinson, H. "Further Cadinene Derivatives from
Heterotheca latifolia." Phytochemistry 24 (5)(1985):
1101-1103.

Bohlmann, F.; Zdero, C.; King, R. M.; and Robinson, H.
"Pseudoguaianolides and Other Sesquiterpene Lactones from

Gaillardia Species." Phytochemistry 23 (9)(1984):
1979-1988.
"Gutierrezial and Further Diterpenes from Gutierrezia
sarothrae." Phytochemistry 23 (9)(1984): 2007-2012.
"“Oplopane Derivatives from Arnoglossum
atriplicifolium." Rev. Latinoamer. Quim. 15(1)(1984):
13.

"Phenylethylamida aus Critoniella acuminata.”
Planta Medica 1984 (2)(1984): 187-188.
"Polyacetylenverbindungen aus Jungia seteriana."
Planta Medica 1984 (2)(1984): 190-191.
"Neue Aromadendren-Derivate aus Wyethia arizonica."
Planta Medica 1984 (2)(1984): 195-196.
"A Further Geranylnerol Derivative from Helianthopsis
Species." Phytochemistry 24 (5)(1985): LLO8—1LLULO.
Bohlmann, F.; Zdero, C.; Jakupovic, J.; Misra, L. N.;
Banerjee, S.; Singh, P.; Baruah, R. N.; Metwally, M. A.;
Schmeda-Hirschmann, G.; Vincent, L. P. D.; King, R. M.; and
Robinson, H: "Eremophilane Derivatives and Other
Constituents from Senecio Species." Phytochemistry 24
C6) (E9785). : 1249-1261.
Burns-Balogh, P., and Funk, V. A. "Evolution of the
Monandrous Orchidaceae I." Canadian Orchid Journal 2
(2), C19:38'5)) : 22-31.
"Evolution of the Monandrous Orchidaceae III."
Canadian Orchid Journal 2 (3)(1985): 6-14.
"Evolution of the Monandrous Orchidaceae." Canadian
Orchid Journal 2 (4)(1985): 3=115.
Burns-Balogh, P.; Robinson, H.: and Foster, M. S. "The
Capitate-Flowered Epiphytic Spiranthinae (Orchidaceae) and
a New Genus from Paraguay." Brittonia 37 (2)(1985):
154-162.
Connon 2/3 45542 vCubitaiaA"E.cvand. Norris J 2°NG. | “Cyclic
Changes in Biotic Surface Cover of a Fringing Reef in

Caribbean Panama." Journal of Phycology 20
(Suppl.)(1984): lee

Cowan, R. S. "Studies in Tropical American Leguminosae - IX."
Brittonia 37 (3)(1985): 291-304.

Cuatrecasas, J. "Studies in Neotropical Senecioneae V. Two
New Species of Pentacalia from Colombia." Phytologia 57
(3) ¢1985)); 169-174.

"Brunelliaceae, Supplement." Flora Neotropica,
Monograph no. 2 (Suppl.)(1985): 28-103.

"Miscellanea Sobre Flora Neotropica IV." Fontqueria 8
(1985): 9-18.

Faden, R. B. "New Taxa of Aneilema R. Br. (Commelinaceae)
from Southern and Tropical East Africa." Bothalia 15
(1-2) (1984): 89-100.

"Commelinaceae." In The Families of the

Monocotyledons, 381-387 by R. M. T. Dahlgren,
H. T. Clifford, and P. F. Yeo. Berlin: Springer-Verlag,
1985.

"Mayacaceae." In The Families of the Monocotyledons
GLOSS) iss 7 BS 7—SES by Rw) Mio; ET." Dahigren;,* F.> To, Clvt ford.,...and
P. F. Yeo. Berlin: Springer-Verlag.

"Overlooked Combinations in the Commelinaceae

Published by Robert Sweet and J. C. Loudon." Taxon 34
(2)(1985): 295-296. ;
Fosberg,, E.R. "Henderson Island Saved." Environmental

Conservation 11 (1984): 183-184.

"Phytogeography Comparison of Polynesia and
Micronesia." In Biogeography of the Tropical Pacific
(1984): 33-44. Edited by F. J. Radovsky, P. H. Raven, and
S. H. Sohmer. Honolulu: Association of Systematics
Collections.

"Range Extension of Diaporthiopsis metrosideri to
Bird Park, Hawaii Volcanoes National Park." Newsletter
Hawaiian Botanical Society 24 (1985): 18.

"Cordyline fruticosa (L.) Chevalier (Agavaceae)."
Baileya 22 (4)(1985): 180-181.

"Present State of Knowledge of the Flora and

Vegetation of Emergent Reef Surfaces." Proceedings of the
5th International Coral Reef Congress 2 (1985): 138.
"Classification of Emergent Reef Surfaces." Atoll

Research Bulletin 292 (1985): 29-35.

"Botanical Visits to Krakatau in 1958 and 1963."
Atoll Research Bulletin 292 (1985): 39-47.

"Origin and Early History of the Flora Neotropica

Project." Flora Neotropica, Monograph no. 2
(Suppl) (1985): 25-27.

Fosberg, F. R., and Sachet, M. -H. "History of the Generic
Name Pseuderanthum Radlkofer (Acanthaceae)." Baileya

22(4)(1985): 178-179.
Fosberg, F. R., and Terrell, E. E. "A Recently Established
Exotic in West Florida and Alabama (Hedyotis salzmannii or

Oldenlandia salzmannii Rubiaceae)." Castanea 50 (1985):
49-51.
Funk, V. A. "Cladistics and Generic Concepts in the

Compositae." Taxon 34 (1985): 72-80.
"Preface and Curriculum Vitae of Jose Cuatrecasas."
Flora Neotropica 2 (Suppl.)(1985): 1-12.

Gerwick, W. H.; Fenical, W.; and Norris, J. N. "Chemical
Variation in the Tropical Brown Seaweed Stypopodium zonale
(Dictyotaceae)." Phytochemistry 24 (6)(1985): 1279-1283.

Graham, A.; Nowicke, J. W.; Skvarla, J. J.; Graham, S.;

Patel, V.; and Lee, S. "Palynology and Systematics of the
Lythraceae. I. Introduction and Genera Adenaria Through
Ginoria." American Journal of Botany 72 (1985): 768-788.

Hale, Mason E., Jr. "The Lichen Line and High Water Levels in
a Freshwater Stream in Florida." The Bryologist 87
(3)(1984): 261-265. if

"An Historical Review of the Genus Concept in
Lichenology." Beiheft 79 zur Nova Hedwigia, Festschrift J.
Poelt (1984): 11-23.

"New Species in the Lichen Genus Xanthoparmelia

(Vain.) Hale (Ascomycotina: Parmeliaceae)." Mycotaxon 22
(2) (1985): 281-284.
Hale, Mason E., Jr., and Lawrey, J. A. "Annual Rate of Lead

Accumulation in the Lichen Pseudoparmelia baltimorensis."
The Bryologist 88 (1) (1985): 5-7.

Hale, Mason E., Jr., and Ocampo-Friedmann, R. "Ascospore
Cultures of Lichen Phycobionts From the Antarctic Desert."
Antarctic Journal 19 (5)(1984): 170.

Hay, M. E., and Norris, J. N. "Seasonal Reproduction and
Abundance of Six Sympatric Species of Gracilaria Grev.
(Gracilariaceae; Rhodophyta) on a Caribbean Subtidal Sand

Plaine" “Hydrobiologia’ 1267117 (1984): 63-72.
Jensen,:P. R.; Gibson; R. A.3;. Littler, M. M.; and
Littler, D. S. » "Photosynthesis and Calcification: in four

Deep-Water Halimeda Species (Chlorophyceae, Caulerpales)."
Deep-Sea Research 32 (4)(1985): 451-464.

Kidarce Jip A. s Norris.’ J.» Neo Hay, Me Basovand Cubaity,) 3 -E..
"Spatial Patterns and Seasonal Abundances of Major Reeflat
Assemblages on a Caribbean Fringing Reef (Galeta Point,

Panama)." Journal of Phycology 21 (Suppl.)(1985): 52
King, R. M., and Robinson, H. "Studies in the Eupatorieae

(Asteraceae). CCXVIII. A Second Species of Iltisia."
Phytologia 56 (5)(1984): 249-251.
"Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). CCXIX.

A New Species of Cronquistianthus." Phytologia 56
(5) /Gi9'8'4,):: 252—255..

"Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). CCXX.

A New Species of Alomiella from Brazil." Phytologia 56
C5)°¢2 984) = 256-2581.
Lamlein, Jane. "Announcing: The Center For Plant

Conservation." Endangered Species Technical Bulletin
Reprant 2) (Qs )iGLS84i)ts iis"

| "Indian Forest Reserve in Panama." Threatened Plants
Newsletter 13 (1984): 6.
"Latin American Conservation Network." Threatened

Plants Newsletter 13 (1984): 6-7.
; "“WWF-UF Plants Programme." Threatened Plants
Newsletter 13 (1984): 7.

Lellinger, David B. "Nomenclatural and Taxonomic Notes on the
Pteridophytes of Costa Rica, Panama, and Colombia, II."
Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 98
(1985): 366-390.

"The Distribution of Panama's Pteridophytes. In
~ Botany and Natural History of Panama (1985): 43-47.
Edited by W. G. D'Arcy and M. D. Correa. St. Louis:
Missouri Botanical Garden.

Littler, M. M., and Littler, D. S: "Models of Tropical Reef
Biogenesis: The Contribution of Algae." In Progress in
Phycological Research 3 (1984): 323-364. Edited by
F. E. Round and D. J. Chapman. Bristol: Biopress.

LittlerseMs Mes Littler, Do 1S. ?'Blair; (S. M.+ and
Norris ,235 UN: "Deepest Known Plant Life Discovered on an
Uncharted Seamount." Science 227 (1985): 57-59.

Littler, M.eMip&Taylor,-P. Rei Littler, D-°S::°Sims, "R. H.:
and Norris, J. N. "The Distribution, Abundance and Primary
Productivity of Submerged Macrophytes in a Belize Barrier
Reef Mangrove System." Atoll Research Bulletin 289
(1985): 1-22.

Lourteig, A., and Fosberg, F. R. "Application of the Name
Calophyllum calaba L. Guttiferae (Clusiaceae)." Phytologia
B7ALCZ). 61985 )is F513 =—1 5:5

Metwally, M. A.; King, R. M.; and Robinson, H. "An Acetylenic
Epoxide and a Ferulate from Coreopsis longula."

Phytochemistry 24 (1)(1985): 182-183.
Murray, S. N., and Littler, M. M. "Analysis of Seaweed

Communities in a Disturbed Rocky Intertidal Environment
Near Whites Point, Los Angeles, California." Hydrobiologia
116/117 (1984): 374-382.
Nicolson, Dan H. "Aglaonema. In The European Garden Flora 20
(1984): 94-96. Edited i S$. M. Walters, et al.
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
"Notes on a New Genus Pentastemona [Stemonaceae]."
Aroideana 7 (1984): 53.
"AR Second Collection of Pedicellarum (Araceae)."
Aroideana 7 (1984): 56-57.
"Notes on Aroid Papers." Aroidenan 7 (1984): 63.
5 "Suprageneric Names Attributable to Araceae." Taxon
3 (1984): 680-690.
"Postscriptum." Taxon 34 (1985): 299-300.

)
124

Nicolson, Dan H.; Bogner, J.; Mayo, S.; and Sivadasan, M.
"(776) Proposal to Amend 723 Amorphophallus, add Thomsonia,

nom. rej. prop. (Araceae)." Taxon 33 (1984): 740.
Nicolson, Dan H., and Jarvis, C. E. "Cissus verticillata.

a New Combination for C. sicyoides (Vitaceae)." Taxon 33
(1984): 726-727.

Nicolson, Dan H., and Suresh, C. R. "(795) Proposal to
Conserve 5793 Ludwigia (Onagraceae)." Taxon 34 (1985):

537-538.
Norris, J. N. "Non-Flowering Plants: Marine Algae [Seri
Indian Seaweed Knowledge]." In People of the Desert and

Sea: Ethnobotany of the Seri Indians (1985): 207-216, by
R. S. Felger and M. B. Moser. Tucson: University of
Arizona Press.

Nowicke, J. W. "A Palynological Study of the Pandaceae."
Pollen and Spores 26 (1)(1984): 31-42.

Nowicke, J. W.; Skvarla, J. J.; Raven, P. H.: and

Berry, P. E. "Palynological Study of the Genus Fuchsia
(Onagraceae)." Annals of the Missouri Botanical Garden 71
(1984): 35-91.

Nowicke, J. W.; Patel, V.C.; and Skvarla, J. J. "Pollen
Morphology and the Relationships of Aetoxylon, Amyxa, and
Gonystylus to the Thymelaeaceae." American Journal of
Botany 72 (7)(1985): 906-913.

Obermeyer, A. A., and Faden, R. B. "Commelinaceae." In Flora

of Southern Africa 4 (pt. 2)(1985): 23-60. Edited by
O. A. Leistner. Cape Town: Government Printer.

Oliver, R. L.,. and Skog, L. E. "Gesneriaceae." In
"Chromosome Number Reports LXXXVII." Taxon 34 (2)(1985):
346.

Read, R. W. "Aechmea strobilina, Rediscovered?" Journal of

the Bromeliad Society 35 (3)(1985): 104-105 (fig. 3).
"The Evolution of a New Genus Lymania gen. nov."

~~ Journal of the Bromeliad Society 34 (5)(1984): 199-201,
2i2=-216, (figs. 2-11).
"Incidental Mention: For Example..." Taxon 34
(2) (1985): 341-342.
"Natural Hybridization: The Problem." Proceedings
of the 1982 World- Bromeliad Conference (1984): 98-104.
Read, Rk. W., and Philcox, D: "Bull, You Say?" Taxon 32
G2) CL9'8'S Fz 294.
Read, R. W., and Zanoni, T. A. "Thrinax morrisii H. Wendland
(Arecaceae): A Palm New for the Flora of Hispaniola."

Moscosoa 3 (1984): 151-152 (fig. 1).
Robinson, H. "Studies in the Heliantheae (Asteraceae). XXXX.
A New Species of Wulffia from Ecuador." Phytologia 56
(5)(1984): 259-261.

"Studies in the Heliantheae (Asteraceae). XXXIX.
New Species of Aspilia from Brazil." Phytologia 56
(5)(1984): 262-286.

"Studies in the Liabeae (Asteraceae). XVII. Two New
Species of Munnozia." Phytologia 56 (5)(1984): 287-292.

"Studies in the Heliantheae (Asteraceae). XXXIV.
Redelimitation of the Genus Angelphytum." Proceedings of

the Biological Society of Washington 97 (4)(1984): 961-969.

"Observations on Fusion and Evolutionary Variability
in the Angiosperm Flower." Systematic Botany 10
Gi) €29:8.5)s: 105-109.
"In Honor of the Botanical Career of
Jose Cuatrecasas." Flora Neotropica 2 (Suppl.)(1985):
13-16.
Robinson, H., and Cuatrecasas, J. "Observations of the Genus
Gynoxys in Ecuador (Senecioneae: Asteraceae)." Phytologia
56 (5)(1984): 368-375.
Robinson Hap iand ‘King «Rk. 'M. "Comments on the Generic
Concepts in the Eupatorieae." Taxon 34 (1)(1985): 11-16.
Robinson, H., and Shaw, J. "Considerations on the Evolution
of the Moss Operculum." The Bryologist 87 (4)(1984):
293-296.
Sachet, M. -H. "Vegetation et Flore Terrestre de l1'Atoll de
Scilly (Fenua Ura)." Oceanistes 39 (77)(1985): 29-34.
"Vegetation and Flora of Society Island." In French

_ Polynesian Coral Reefs 1 by P. A. Pirazzoli. Proceedings

of the 5th International Coral Reef Congress (1985):
25-26. Moorea, Polynesia: Antenne Museum-EPHE.

Seeley, T. D.; Nowicke, J. W.; Meselson, M.; Guillemin, J.;

and Akratanakul, P. "Yellow Rain." Scientific American
2527-269) iGH9'38'5 ) : 128-137.
Sendulsky, T., and Soderstrom, T. B. "Revision of the South

American Genus Otachyrium (Poaceae: Panicoideae)."
Smithsonian Contributions to Botany 57 (1985). Washington,

D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press.
Shaw, J., and Robinson, H. "On the Development, Evolution,
and Function of Peristomes in Mosses." Journal of the

Hattori Botanical Laboratory 57 (1984): 319-335.
Skog, L. E. "Another Well-Known Name Bites the Dust." The
Gloxinian 35 (2)(1985): 9-10.
. “Flora of the Guianas Project." American Journal of
Botany 72 (6)(1985): 969-970. ‘

Entries pertaining to Eponymy on approximately 100
pages. In Taxonomic Literature Selective Guide To
Botanical Publications and Collections with Dates,
Commentaries and Types. Vol. 5, 2d edition (1985).
Sal-Ste by F. A. Stafleu and R. S. Cowan. Utrecht, The
Netherlands: Bohn, Scheltema and Holkema.

"]11. Gesneriaceae." In The Flora of the Tamilnadu
Carnatic 2 (1983): 1124-1125. Gamopetalae &
Monochlamydeae. Edited by K. M. Matthew. Tiruchirapalli,
India: Rapinat Herbarium, St. Joseph's College.

"AR Review of Chromosome Numbers in the
Gesneriaceae." Selbyana 7 (2-4)(1984): 252-273.

"Proposal to Conserve the Spelling Rhynchoglossum

(Gesneriaceae)." Taxon 34 (2)(1985): 319-320.
Smith, L. B. "AR New Genus of Velloziaceae." Phytologia 57

(2) (1985): 152.
"Morren's Paintings, 4: Neoregelia chlorosticta."
Journal of the Bromeliad Society 35 (3)(1985): 100.
"Morren's Paintings, 5: Aechmea aureo-rosea."

Journal of the Bromeliad Society 35 (4)(1985): 148.

"Morren's Paintings, 6: Aechmea dealbata." Journal
of the Bromeliad Society 35 (5)(1985): 196.

"Morren's Paintings, 3: Neoregelia Tristis."
Journal of the Bromeliad Society 34 (6)(1984): 244.

Smith, L. B.; Steyermark, J. A.> and Robinson. H-
"Bromeliaceae in Direccion de Investigaciones Biologicas
Instituto Nacional de Parques." Acta Botanica Venezuelica
Way (3 261984): 8-18 (figs. 1-10).

Smith, L. B., and Steyermark, J. A. "A New Species of
Connellia from Venezuela." Journal of the Bromeliad
Society 35 (2)(1985): 52-53 (£igs. 2-2).

Smith, L. B., and Wasshausen, D. C. "A New Ecuador Species."
The Begonian 52 (1985): 11-13.

Soderstrom, T. R., and Zuloaga, F. OQ. "New Species of Grasses
in Arberella, Cryptochloa, and Raddia (Poaceae:
Bambusoidea: Olyreae)." Brittonia 37 (1985): 22-35.

d "Diandrolyra tatianae (Poaceae: Olyreae), a New
Herbaceous Bamboo from Brazil." Brittonia 37 (1985): 1-5.

Stafleu, F. A., and Cowan, R. S. Taxonomic Literature
Selective Guide to Botanical Publications and Collections
with Dates, Commentaries and Types 5 (1985): i-iii,
1-1066. 2d edition. Sal-Ste. Utrecht, The Netherlands:
Bohn, Scheltema and Holkema.

Stoddart, D. R., and Fosberg, F. R. "Vegetation and
Floristics of the Western Indian Ocean Coral Islands." In
Biogeography and Ecology of the Seychelles Islands (1984):
221-238. Edited by D. R. Stoddart. The Hague, The
Netherlands: Dr. W. Junk Publishers.
Wasshausen, Dieter C. "Kalbreveracanthus kirkbridei
(Acanthaceae), a New Species from Colombia." Brittonia 37
(2) :@2:9'3 5:)) 199-202.

"New Species of Hansteinia (Acanthaceae) from
Colombia and Ecuador." Brittonia 37 (2)(1985): 203-208.

"New Species of Habracanthus (Acanthaceae) from
Ecuador." Brittonia 37 (3)(1985): 243-251.

Zuloaga; -FPa.O%.«7and ‘Soderstrom, Ts Ri 7 °"CPassificatiron “of the
Outlying Species of New World Panicum (Poaceae:
Paniceae)." Smithsonian Contributions to Botany 59
(1985). Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press.

Department of Entomology

Anderson, John F.; Magnarelli, Louis A.; and

Keirans, James E. "Ixodid and Argasis Ticks in
Connecticut, U.S.A.: Aponomma latum, Amblyomma dissimile,
Haemaphysalis leachi group, and Ornithodoros kelleyi
(Acari: Ixodidae, Argasidae)." Internatational Journal of

Acarology 10 (3)(1984): 149-151.

Baimai, V.3; Green, C. A.:\ Andre. RR. G.3’ Harrison. B.2 A. sand
Peyton, E. L. "Cytogenetic Studies of Some Species
Complexes of Anopheles in Thailand and Southeast Asia."
Southeast Asian Journal of Tropical Medical Public Health
LS: (4) (2984): 536-546.

Burns, John M. "Evolutionary Differentiation:
Differentiating Gold-banded Skippers--Autochton cellus and
More (Lepidoptera: Hesperiidae: Pyrginae)." Smithsonian
Contributions to Zoology 405 (1984): i-iii, 1-38.

Coddington, J. A. Review of The Explanation of Organic

Diversity: The Comparative Method and Adaptations for
Mating. Journal of Cladistics 1 (1984): 102-107.

Davis, D. R. "Families Neopseustidae, Incurvariidae,
Adelidae, Prodoxidae, Cecidosidae, Nepticulidae,
Opostegidae, Tineidae, Psychidae, Arrhenophanidae." In
Atlas of Neotropical Lepidoptera 2 (1984): 16-25. Edited
by J. R. Heppner. Checklist, part 1 (Micropterigoidea to
Immoidea). The Hague: Dr. W. Junk.

. Presidential Profile.
G2E9:8:5;) 2 es

"RA Reexamination of Enteucha cyanochlora Meyrick and
Its Subsequent Transfer to the Nepticulidae (Lepidoptera:

Nepticuloidea)." Proceedings of the Entomological Society
of Washington 87 (1)(1985): 142-145.

Lepidopterists News 1
(oe)

Davis, D. R., and Miiler, S. E. "Families Gracillariidae and
Lyonetiidae." In Atlas of Neotropical Lepidoptera 2
(1984): 25-27.) Edited. by J. R. Heppner=<) Checklist; part
1 (Micropterigoidea to Immoidea). The Hague: Dr. W. Junk.

Davis, D. R., and Nielsen, E. S. "The South American
Neopseustid Genus Apoplania Davis: A New Species,
Distribution Records and Notes on Adult Behavior
(Lepidoptera: Neopseustina)." -Entomologica Scandinavica
15 (1984): 497-509.

Erwin, T. L. "Composition and Origin of the Ground-Beetle
Fauna of Sri Lanka (Coleoptera: Carabidae)." In Ecology
and Biogeography of Sri Lanka (1984): 371-389. Edited by
C. H. Fernando. The Hague: Dr. W. Junk b. v. Publishers.

"Small Terrestrial Ground Beetles of the Amazon Basin
(Coleoptera: Bembidiini: Tachyina and Anillina).”
Amazoniana 8 (4)(1984): 511-518.

Erwin, T. L., and Sims, L. L. "Carabid Beetles of the West
Indies (Insecta: Coleoptera): A Synopsis of the Genera
and Checklists of Tribes of Caraboidea, and of the West
Indian Species." Quaestiones Entomologicae 20 (1984):
351-464.

Faran, Michael E.; Burnett, Charlotte; Crockett, James J.; and
Lawson, W. L. "A Computerized Mosquito Information and
Collection Management System for Systematic Research and
Medical Entomology (Diptera: Culicidae)." Mosquito

Systematics 16 (4)(1984): 289-307.

Farhang Azad, A.; Traub, R.; Sofi, M.; and Wisseman, C. L
"Experimental Murine Typhus Infection in the Cat Flea,
Ctenocephalides felis. Journal of Medical Entomology 21
(6)(1984): 675-680 (refs).

Farhang Azad, A.; Traub, R. 3 and Baqar, S$. "Transovarial
Transmission of Murine Typhus Rickettsiae in Xenopsylla
cheopis Fleas." Science 227 (4686)(1985): 543-545.

Farhang Azad, A., and Traub, R. "Transmission of Murine

Typhis Rickettsiae by Xenopsylla cheopis, With Notes on
Experimental Infection and Effects of Temperature."

American Journal of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene 34
(3) .€19'38'5)) : 555-563.

Flint, Oliver S.. Jr. “Studies on the Genus Brachycentrus:”
Proceedings of the 4th International Symposium on
Trichoptera~(1984): ~143.

"The Genus Brachycentrus in North America, With a
Proposed Phylogeny of the Genera of Brachycentridae

<5 JES

(Trichoptera)." Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology 398
(1984): Leiv, 2-58.

Freidberg, A., and Mathis, Wayne N. "On the Feeding Habits of
Rhynchopsilopa (Diptera: Ephydridae)." Entomophaga 30
CX) (219185 ).: 13-21.

Froeschner, R. C. "Synopsis of the Heteroptera or True Bugs
of the Galapagos Islands." Smithsonian Contributions to

Zoology 407 (1985): 1-Litgel-84..
Froeschner, R. C., and Pena G., L. E. "First South American
Record for the Circum-Mediterranean Patapius spinosus
(Rossi) (Heteroptera: Leptopodidae)." Revista Chilena de
Entomologia 11 (1985): 2 pages.

Gaffigan, T. V., and Ward, R. A. Index to the Second
Supplement to "A Catalog of the Mosquitoes of the World"

with corrections and additions. (Diptera: Culicidae).
Mosquito Systematics 17 (1)(1985): 52-53. :
Glorioso, Michael J., and Flint, 0. S., Jr. "A Review of the

Genus Platyneuromus (Insecta: Neuroptera: Corydalidae)."
Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 97
(1984): 601-614.

Goldman, Luther S.; Krombein, Karl V.; and Oehser, Paul H.
"The Members and History of the Washington Biologists Field
Club" (1984): 80 pages. Lawrence, Kansas: Allen Press.

Green, C. A.; Baimai, V.; Harrison, B. A.:;: and Andre, R. G.
"Cytogenetic Evidence for a Complex of Species Within the
Taxon Anopheles maculatus (Diptera: Culicidae).

Biological Journal of the Linnean Society 24 (1985):
321-328. ;

Green, C. A.: Harrison, B. A.:; Klein, T. A.: and Baimai, V.
"Cladistic Analysis of Polytene Chromosome Rearrangements
in AN le Mosquitoes, Subgenus Cellia, series
Neocellia. Canadian Journal of Genetics and Cytology 27
(2)(1985): 123-133.

Harbach, R. E.; Dahl, C.; and White, G. B. "Culex (Culex)
pipiens Linnaeus (Diptera: Culicidae): Concepts, Type
Designations and Description." Proceedings of the
Entomological Society of Washington 87 (1)(1985): 1-24.

Huang, Y. M. "A New African Species of Aedes (Diptera:
Culicidae)." Mosquito Systematics 17 (2)(1985): 13 pages.

Kavanaugh, D. K., and Erwin, T. L. "Trechus obtusus Erichson
(Coleoptera: Carabidae), A European Ground Beetle, on the
Pacific Coast of North America: Its Distribution,

Introduction and Spread." Pan-Pacific Entomology 61
€2)) (E985); 170-179.

Keirans, James E. "Amblyomma paulopunctatum Neumann
(Ixodoidea: Ixodidae): Redescription of the Male and
Female, With an Account of Its Known Hosts and
Distribution." Proceedings of the Entomological Society of
Washington 87 (3)(1985): 489-497.

"George Henry Falkiner Nuttall and the Nuttall Tick
Catalogue." U. S. Department of Agriculture Miscellaneous
Publication 1438 (1985): 1785 pages.

Keirans, James E., and Clifford, Carleton M. "A Checklist of
Types of Ixodoidea (Acari) in the Collection of the Rocky

Mountain Laboratories." Journal of Medical Entomology 21
3! ), 9/8i4:). 310-320.
+
1)

Keirans, James -E.;, Clifford, Carleton M:; and
Hoogstraal, Harry. "Ornithodoros (Alectorobius) yunkeri,
New Species (Acari: MIxodoidea: Argasidae), from Seabirds
and Nesting Sites in the Galapagos Islands. Journal of
Medical Entomology h21 (3)(1984): 344-350.

Kleinvat: (AL: tharrisoncBa-Aes Baimad ~.V.2 4and
Phunkitchar, V. "Hybridization Evidence Supporting
Separate Species Status for Anopheles nivipes and Anopheles
phillippinensis." Mosquito News 44 (4)(1985): 466-470.

Krombein, Karl V. "Biosystematic Studies of Ceylonese Wasps,
XIV: A Revision of Carinostigmus Tsuneki (Hymenoptera:
Sphecoidea: Pemphredonidae)." Smithsonian Contributions
to Zoology 396 (1984): i-iii, 1-37 pages.

"Two New Egg Parasites of South African Walking

Sticks and Notes on Two Previously Described Species

(Hymenoptera: Chrysidoidea: Amiseginae)." Journal of the
Entomological Society of Southern Africa 47 (1984):
211-215.

"Biosystematic Studies of Ceylonese Wasps, XV: A
Monograph of the Alyssoninae, Nyssoninae and Gorytinae
(Hymenoptera: Sphecoidea: Nyssonidae). Smithsonian
Contributions to Zoology 414 (1985): i-iii, 1-43.

"Oxybelus (Anoxybelus) maidlii Kohl, an Oxybelus With
Unusual Features (Hymenoptera: Sphecoidea:

Crabronidae)." Proceedings of the Entomological Society of
Washington 87 (1985): 634-640.

Krombein, Karl V., and Gingras, Sandra S. "Revision of North
American Liris Fabricius (Hymenoptera: Sphecoidea:
Larridae)." Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology 4104
(1984): LoL, 1-96.

Masteller, E. C., and Flint, 0. S., Jr. "Trichoptera
Emergence Patterns from a Small Stream in Northwestern
Pennsylvania Influenced by Sewage Effluent." Proceedings
of the 4th International Symposium on Trichoptera (1984):
225-2333 '\«

Mathis, Wayne N. "A New Psilopine Genus and Species From
Israel With a Recharacterization of the Tribe and Key to
Other Psilopine Genera of the Middle East (Diptera:
Ephydridae)." Proceedings of the Entomological Society of
Washington 87 (2)(1985): 375-380.

; "Studies of Parydrinae (Diptera: Ephydridae), II:
A Revision of the Shore Fly Genus Pelinoides Cresson."
Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology 410 (1985): = hye
1-46.

Mathis, Wayne N., and Ghorpadé, Kumar D. "Studies of
Parydrinae (Diptera: Ephydridae), I: A Review of the
Genus Brachydeutera Loew from the Oriental, Australian, and

Oceanian Regions." Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology
406 (1985): PL.) £-25'.
Nielsen, E. $., and Davis., D. R. "First Southern Hemisphere
Prodoxid and the Phylogeny of the Incurvarioidea
(Lepidoptera).”" Systematic Entomology 10 (3)(1985):

307-322.

Nurul Huda, K. M., and Harrison, B. A. "Priority of the Name
Anopheles Pseudojamesi for the Species Previously Called
An. ramsayi (Diptera: Culicidae)." Mosquito Systematics
E74 G1) GES'S'S Dus 49-51.

Perkins, Philip D., and Spangler, Paul J. "Quadryops New

Genus, and Three New Species of Arboreal Dryopidae
(Coleoptera) from Panama and Ecuador. Proceedings of the

Biological Society of Washington 98 (2)(1985): 490-506, 47
figs.

Roberts, D. R.; Peyton, E. L.; Pinheiro, F. P.; Balderama, F.;
and Vargas, R. "Associations of Arbovirus Vectors With

Gallery Forests and Domestic Environments in Southeastern
Bolivia. PAHO Bulletin 18 (4)(1985): 337-350.

Roshdy, Mohamed A.; Hoogstraal, Harry; Clifford, Carleton M.;
Keirans, James E.; and Corwin,: Melvin D. "Bat Ticks of the
Genus Argas (Ixodoidea: Argasidae). 13. Haller's Organ
Roof and Anterior Pit Setae in Carios and Chiropterargas."
Journal of Parasitology 70 (3)(1984): 407-411.

Spangler, Paul J. "A New Species of the Aquatic Beetle Genus
Dryopomorphus from Borneo (Coleoptera: Elmidae:
Larinae)." Proceedings of the Biological Society of
Washington 98 (2)(1985): 412.417, 9 figs.

"A New Genus and Species of Riffle Beetle,
Neblinagena prima, from the Venezuelan Tepui, Cerro de la
Neblina (Coleoptera: Elmidae: Larinae)." Proceedings of
the Entomological Society of Washington 87 (3)(1985):
538-544, 15 figs.

"Obituary: Oscar Ling Cartwright. Proceedings of
the Entomological Society of Washington 87 (3)(1985):
690-698, 1 fig.

"Five New Species of the Predacious Water Beetle
Genus Hydrodessus from Guyana and a Key to the Species
(Coleoptera: Dytiscidae)." Proceedings of the Academy of

Natural Science of Philadelphia 137 (1985): 80-89, 26 figs.

Ward, R. A. Second Supplement to "A Catalog of the Mosquitoes

of the World (Diptera: Culicidae)." Mosquito Systematics
16, .€3,).C1984,)2  °227-270..

Watts, Dy M:: Harrison, B: Ai: Pantawatana, S.2 Kleimsct. A.;

and Burke. Di. .Ss "Failure to Detect Natural Transovarial
Transmission of Dengue Viruses by Aedes Aegypti and Aedes
albopictus (Diptera: Culicidae)." Journal of Medical
Entomology 22 (3)(1985): 261-265.

Wolfe, George W., and Spangler, Paul J. "A Synopsis of the

Laccornis difformis Species Group With a Revised Key to
North per ican Species of Laccornis Des Gozis (Coleoptera:

Dytiscidae). Proceedings of the Biological Society of
Washington 98 (1)(1985): 61-71, 17 figs.
te

Department of Invertebrate Zoology

Barbteri, R.t Esteves; F.jA.3 and Reid, J2°wW.. "Contribution
of Two Aquatic Macrophytes to the Nutrient Budget of Lobo
Reservoir (Sao Paulo, Brazil)." Verhandlungen der
Internationale Vereinigung fiir Limnologie 22 (1984):
1631-1635.

Barnard, J. L., and Drummond, M. M. "A New Paracalliopiid,
Katocalliope kutyeri, Gen. et Sp. Nov. (Crustacea:
Amphipoda) from Queensland." Proceedings of the Royal
Society of Victoria 96 (September 1984): 147-153, 4 figs.

Barnard, J. L., and Thomas, J. D. "Two Species of the
Siphonoecetes Complex from the Arabian Gulf and Borneo
(Crustacea: Amphipoda)." Proceedings of the Biological
Society of Washington 97 (December 1984): 864-881, 9
figs, /1. table.

Baumann, P. C., and Harshbarger, J. C. "Frequencies of Liver
Neoplasia in a Feral Fish Population and Associated
Carcinogens" (1985). Third International Symposium on
Responses of Marine Organisms to Pollutants, April 17-18,
1985. Plymouth, England: Institute for Marine
Environmental Research.

Bieler, Rudiger. '"Morphometrische Analyse der Architectonica
maxima-Gruppe im Indo-Pazifik (Mollusca: Gastropoda:
Architectonicidae)." Verhandlungen des
naturwissenschaftlichen Vereins in Hamburg (NF)27(1984):
453-492.

"Die Gattungen der Architectonicidae (Gastropoda:
'Heterogastropoda'). Teil 2: Architectonica, Philippia,
Stellaxis, Discotectonica, Solatisonax, Climacopoma,

Granosolarium." Archiv fiir Molluskenkunde 115 (4/6)
(Frankfurt) (1984)(1985): 23 2=1:6.5):
Bowman, Thomas E. "The Correct Identity of the Pelagic

Amphipod, Primno macropa, with a Diagnosis of Primno
abyssalis (Hyperiidea: Phrosinidae). Proceedings of the
Biological Society of Washington 98 (1): 11-126.

Bowman, Thomas E.; Garner, Susan P.; Hessler, Robert R.;

Iliffe, Thomas M.; and Sanders, Howard L. "Mictacea, a New
Order of Crustacea Peracarida." Journal of Crustacean
Biology 5 (1):  7.4-78'.

Bowman, Thomas E., and Iliffe, Thomas M. "Mictocaris halope,
a New Unusual Peracaridan Crustacean from Marine Caves on
Bermuda." Journal of Crustacean Biology 5 (1): 58-73.

Bowman, Thomas E., and Wasmer, Robert A. "The Deep-sea

Amphipod Paracyphocaris praedator (Gammaridea:
Lysianassidae) Associated with the Pelagic Shrimp
Oplophorus novaezelandiae as an Egg-mimic." Proceedings of
the Biological Society of Washington 97 (4): 844-848.
Bowman, Thomas E.; Yager, Jill; and Iliffe, Thomas M.
"Speonebalia cannoni n. gen., n. sp., from the Caicos
Islands, the First Hypogean Leptostracan (Nebaliacea:

Nebaliidae)." Proceedings of the Biological Society of
Washington 98 (2): 439-446.

Brakoniecki, T., and Roper, C. F. E. "Lolliguncula argus, a
New Species of Loliginid Squid (Cephalopoda: Myopsida)
from the Tropical Eastern Pacific." Biological Society of
Washington 98 (1)(1985): 47-53.

Cairns, Stephen D. "New Records of Ahermatypic Corals
(Scleractinia) from the Hawaiian and Line Islands."
Occasional Papers Bishop Museum 25 (10)(1984): 1-30.

"An Application of Phylogenetic Analysis to the
Scleractinia: Family Fungiidae." Fourth International

Symposium of Fossil Cnidaria. Palaeontographica Americana
54 (1984): 49-57.
"Three new species of Stylasteridae." Proceedings of
the Biological Society of Washington 98 (3)(1985): 728-739.
Chace, Fenner A., Jr. "The Caridean Shrimps (Crustacea:
Decapoda) of the Albatross Philippine Expedition,
1907-1910, Part 3: Families Thalassocarididae and
Pandalidae." Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology 411
(1985): i-iv, 1-143. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian
Institution Press. ;
Chornesky, E. A. Review of "A Reef System: Corals and Coral
Reefs of the Galapagos Islands," by P. W. Glynn and
G. M. Wellington. Science 2985 (228): 1522-1523.

Clark, J..,..and Barnard, J.) L. "Lucayrina catacumba, New
Genus, New Species, a Bahamian Sea-Cave Amphipod
(Crustacea: Amphipoda: Lysianassidae)." Proceedings of

the Biological Society of Washington 98 (March 1985):
Z243-254,,. ‘SA figs ;

Cooper, M. R., and Kensley, B. "Endemic South America Permian
Bivalve Molluscs from the Ecca of South Africa." Journal
of Paleontology 58 (6): 1360-1363.

Couch, J. A.; and Harshbarger,: J... C. "Effects of Carcinogenic
Agents on Aquatic Animals: An Environmental and
Experimental Overview." Journal of Environmental Science

and Health, Part C, Environmental Carcinogens, Rev. 3
(1985) : 63-105. ‘

Cressey, Roger. "A New Genus of Bomolochid Copepod from
Eastern Pacific Haemulid Fishes." Bulletin of Marine
Science 35 (2): 182-186.

Danielopol, D. L., and Hart, C. W., Jr. "Notes on the Center
of Origin and on the Antiquity of the Sphaeromicolonae,
with Description of Hobbsiella, New Genus (Ostracoda.

Entocytheridae)." Stygologia 1 (1)(1985): 54-70.
Fauchald;,, “K..., "Polychaete; Distxcibution; Patterns,..Or: Can
Animals With Palaeozoic Cousins Show Large-scale
Geographical Patterns." Proceedings of the First
International Polychaete Conference (1984): 1-6. Edited

by P. A. Hutchings. Sydney: The Linnean Society of New
South Wales.
Gardiner, S. L., and Jones, M. L. "Ultrastructure of
Spermiogenesis in the Vestimentiferan Tube Worm Riftia
pachyptila (Pogonophora: Obturata)." Transactions of the
American Microscopical Society 104 (1)(1985): 19-44.

Harshbarger, J. C. "Fish Neoplasms: Epizootiology,
Experimental Carcinogenesis, Risk and Benefits." In
Abstracts and Program of the IIth Annual Aquatic Toxicity
Workshop (Vancouver, British Columbia) (November 13-15,
1984): 2 pages.

Harshbarger, J. C.;-.Cullen, L. J.; Calabrese, M. J.;

Spero, P. M.; Baumann, P. C.; and Parland, W. K.
"Epidermal, Hepatocellular and Cholangiocellular Carcinomas
in Brown Bullheads, Ictalurus nebulosus, from Industrially

Polluted Black River, Ohio." Marine and Environmental
Research 14 (1984): 535-536.
Hart, C. W., Jr.; Manning, R. B.; and Iliffe, T. M. "The

Fauna of Atlantic Marine Caves: Evidence of Dispersal by
Sea Floor Spreading While Maintaining Ties to Deep

Waters." Proceedings of the Biological Society of
Washington 98 (1)(1985): 288-292.
Hart, C. W., Jr.; Manning, R. B.; and Iliffe, T. "The Fauna

of Atlantic Marine Caves: Evidence of Dispersal by Sea
Floor Spreading While Maintaining Ties to Deep Waters."
Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 98
(1) (1985): 288-292.

Hobbs, Horton H., Jr., and Carlson, Paul. "Member of the

Genus Distocambarus (Decapoda: Cambaridae) from the Saluda
Basin, South Carolina." Proceedings of the Biological

Society of Washington 98 (1)(1985): 81-89.

Houbrick, Richard S. A New "Metula" Species from the
Indo-West Pacific (Prosobranchia: Buccinidae).
Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 97
G28: 420-424.

"The Giant Creeper, Campanile symbolicum Iredale, an
Australian Relict Marine Snail." In Living Fossils:
232-235. Edited by S. Stanley and N. Eldridge.
Springer-Verlag.

"Diastoma melanioides (Reeve), a Relict Snail from
South Australia." In Living Fossils: 236-239. Edited by
S. Stanley and N. Eldridge. Springer-Verlag.

"The Relict Cerithiid Prosobranch, Gourmya gourmyi
(Crosse)." In Living Fossils: 240-242. Edited by
S. Stanley and N. Eldridge. Springer-Verlag.

"Monograph of the Genus Clypeomorus (Cerithiidae,

Prosobranchia)." Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology 403
(1985): 313 pages. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian

Institution Press.

"Going Collecting? Look for a Live Royella sinon."
Hawaiian Shell News, 32 (4): U2: 3

Jones, M. L. "The Giant Tube Worms." Oceanus 27 (3)(1984):
47-52.
Jones, M:,L:j,and,Gardiner, SS. Lb. ~"Light::and Scanning
Electron Microscopic Studies of Spermatogenesis in the
Vestimentiferan Tube Worm Riftia pachyptila (Pogonophora:

Obturata)." Transactions of the American Microscopical
Society 104. (1)i451=18..

Kensley, B. "The Atlantic Barrier Reef Ecosystem at Carrie
Bow Cay, Belize, III. New Marine Isopoda." Smithsonian
Contributions to Marine Sciences 24 (1984): i-iv, 1-81.
Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press.

"The Faunal Deposits of a Late Pleistocene Raised
Beach at Milnerton, Cape Province, South Africa." Annals

of the South African Museum 95 (2)(1985): 111-122.
Kensley, B., and Heard, R. "A New Species of the Genus
Spinianirella Menzies (Crustacea: Isopoda: Janiridae)

from the Western Atlantic." Proceedings of the Biological

Society of Washington 98 (3): 682-686.
Kensley, B., and Tobias, W. "Redescription of Heterocarpus

laevis A. Milne Edwards (Crustacea: Decapoda:
Pandalidae)." Proceedings of the Biological Society of
Washington 98 (1): 237-242.

Kimura, I.; Ando, M.; Kinae, N.; Wakamatsu, Y.; Ozato, K.; and
Harshbarger, J. C. "MNNG Induction of Gill Tumors ina
Platyfish x Swordtail Fl Hybrid and in Medaka (Oryzias
latipes) and Nifurpirinol Induction of Hepatomas in
Medaka." In Annual Report Aichi Cancer Center Research
Institute 1981-1983 (1984): 60-62. Nagoya, Japan:

Arakawa Printing.

Kornicker, Louis S. "Sexual Dimorphism, Ontogeny, and
Functional Morphology of Rutiderma hartmanni Poulsen, 1965
(Crustacea: Ostracoda)." Smithsonian Contributions to

Zoology 408 (1985): i-iii, 1-28. Washington, D.C.:
Smithsonian Institution Press.

"Preliminary Report on Myodocopine Ostracoda
(Cypridinoidea)" In Peuplements Profonds du Golfe de
Gascogne (1985): 409-412. Edited by L. Laubier and
C. Monnoit. tIfremer: Service Documentation-Publications
Centre de Brest.

Kornicker, Louis S., and Iliffe, T. M. "Deeveyinae, a New
Subfamily of Ostracoda (Halocyprididae) from a Marine Cave
on the Turks and Caicos Islands." Proceedings of the
Biological Society of Washington 98 (2) 1985: 476-493.

Luvs. CurcCesoRoper; Co F.-E. ©. and. Tait; R.eWi- WACRevision of
Loliolus (Cephalopoda: Loliginidae), Including L.
noctiluca, a New Species of Squid from Australian Waters."
Proceedings of the Royal Society of Victoria 19 (2)(1985):
59-85.

Milliken, M. R., and Williams, Austin B. "Synopsis of
Biological Data on the Blue Crab, Callinectes sapidus
Rathbun." NOAA Technical Report NMFS. FAO Fisheries
Synopsis 1 (138): iv, 39 pages.

135
Nowell, A. R. M.; Jumars, P. A.; and Fauchald, K. "The
Foraging Strategy of a Subtidal and Deep-sea Deposit
Feeder." Limnology and Oceanograpy 29 (3)(2984): 645-649.

Pawson, David L. Psychropotes hyalinus, New Species, a
Swimming Elasipod Sea Cucumber (Echinodermata:
Holothuroidea) from the North Central Pacific Ocean."

Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 98
(2) (1985): 523-525.

. “Review of Echinoid Paleobiology." Bulletin of
Marine Science 36 (2)(1985): 401-402.

Perez Farfante, I. "New Locality Records for Cryptopenaeus
catherinae De Freitas and Benthesicymus bartletti S.I.
Smith (Decapoda: Penaeiodea)." Crustaceana 48 (3)(1985):
316-318.

Perez Farfante, I., and Kensley, B. "Cryptopenaeus crosnieri,

a New Species of Shrimp, and a New Record of C. sinensis
(Penaeoidea: Solenoceridae) from Australian Waters."
Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 98
@)) 2 281-287.

Perez Farfante, I., and Kensley, B. "Cryptopenaeus crosnieri,
a New Species of Shrimp, and a New Record of C. sinensis
(Penaeoidea: Solenoceridae) from Australian Waters."
Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 98
G1) 281-287.

Pettibone, Marian H. "Two New Species of Lepidonotopodium
(Polychaeta: Polynoidae: Lepidonotopodinae) from
Hydrothermal Vents off the Galapagos and East Pacific Rise
at 21°N." Proceedings of the Biological Society of
Washington 97 (4)(1984): 849-863.

"Polychaete Worms from a Cave in the Bahamas and from
Experimental Wood Panels in Deep Water of the North
Atlantic (Polynoidae: Macellicephalinae: Harmothoinae)."
Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 98
(1)(1985): 127-149.

"An Additional New Scale Worm (Polychaeta:
Polynoidae) from the Hydrothermal Rift Area off Western
Mexico at 21°N." Proceedings of the Biological Society of
Washington 98 (1)(1985): 150-157.

"Additional Branchiate Scale-worms (Polychaeta:
Polynoidae) from Galapagos Hydrothermal Vent and Rift-area
off Western Mexico at 21°." Proceedings of the Biological
Society of Washington 98 (2)(1985): 447-469.

"New Genera and Species of Deep-sea Macellicephalinae
and Harmothoinae (Polychaeta: Polynoidae) from the
Hydrothermal Rift Areas off the Galapagos and Western
Mexico at 21°N. and from the Santa Catalina Channel."
Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 98
C3) C2935 ais 740-757.

Reams, R. C., and Williams, Austin B. "The Mud Crab Panopeus
herbstii, H. M. Edw., s.1. Populations. in Alabama,
U.S.A." Fishery Bulletin 81 (4)(1984 for 1983); 885-890.
Rehder, Harald A. "Cypraea thomasi Cross: A Valid Species."

Levantina: A Malacological Review 49 (1984): 563-565.
Israel Malacological Society.
"Williamia Monterosato 1884 (Mollusca: Gastropoda):

Proposed./Conservatiliones Z.°N.:\((Si) 2237." Bulletin of
Zoological Nomenclature 41 (3)(1984): 159-162.

Reid, J.W., and Esteves, F.A. "Consideracoes ecologicas e
biogeograficas sobre a fauna de copepodos (Crustacea)
planctonicos e bentonicos de 14 lagoas costeiras do Estado
do Rio de Janeiro, Brasil" [Ecological and Biogeographical
Considerations on the Planktonic and Benthic Copepod
(Crustacea) Fauna of 14 Coastal Ponds, State of Rio de
Janeiro, BraziljJ. In Restingas: Origem, Estrutura,
Processos (1984): 305-326. Edited by L. D. Lacerda,

D. S. D. Araujo, R. Cerqueira, and B. Turcq. Rio de
Janeiro: CEUFF, Niteroi.

Rice, Mary E. "Description of a Wood HyeIanG Sipunculan,
Phascolosoma turnerae, New Species. Proceedings of the
Biological Society of Washington 98 (1)(1985): 54-60.

Rice, Mary E., and Reichardt, H. F. "Larval Development and
Metamorphosis of Siphonosoma cumanense (Keferstein, 1867)
(Sipuncula)." American Zoologist 24 (3)(1984): 242.

Roper, C. F. E. "S. Stillman Berry (1887-1984): A Tribute
Through Glimpses and Reflections." American Malacological

Union Bulletin 3 (1)(1985): 55-61.
"Is There a Squid in Your Future: Perspectives for

New Research." In Perspectives in Malacology. American
Malacological Union Bulletin, Special Edition no. lL:
93-100.

Schiff scH::; Abbott; 7Bs 4€ i> Mand :Manning;:'ReaBe i"Possible
Monocular Range-finding Mechanisms in Stomatopods from
Different Environmental Light Conditions." Comparative
Biochemistry and Physiology 80A (3)(1985): 271-280.

Schiff; Hes cand Manning, Rs.) B..). "Déscription of ‘a-“Unique
Crustacean Eye." Journal of Crustacean Biology 4
(4) (1984): 604-614.

Suarez, -M. F:s;Ayala, D.;) Nelson, ;M. J.; and’ Reid, J. W.

"Hallazgo de Mesocyclops aspericornis (Daday) (Copepoda:
Cyclopidae) depredador de larvas de Aedes aegypti en

Anapoima Colombia." [Occurrence of Mesocyclops
aspericornis (Daday)(Copepoda: Cyclopidae) Predator of
Larvae of Aedes aegypti in Anapoima - Colombia]. Biomedica

4 (2) (1:98 4): 74-76.

Sullivany<cB. 2 Miller, Ka: (Singleton: K.1; (Scheer, A: Gs; -and
Williams, Austin B. "The Mud Crab Panopeus herbstii H. M.
Eds., s.1. Electrophoretic Analyses of Hemocyanins from
Four Forms With Observations on the Ecology of Form

obesa." Fishery Bulletin 81 (4)(1984 for 1983): 883-885.
Sweeney, M. J., and Roper, C. F. E. "The Zoological Taxa and

Bibliography of S. Stillman Berry." American Malacological
Union Bulletin 3 (1)(1985): 63-82.
Thomas, J. D., and Barnard, J. L. "Acanthohaustorius pansus,
a New Species of Sand-Burrowing Amphipod from Looe Key
Reef, Florida Keys, with Redescription and Distribution
Data of Acanthohaustorius bousfieldi Frame, 1980
(Amphipoda: Haustoriidae)." Proceedings of the Biological
Society of Washington 97 (December 1984): 909-926, 9 figs.

"Perioculodes cerasinus N. Sp., the First Records of
the Genus from the Caribbean Sea (Amphipoda:
Oedicerotidae)." Proceedings of the Biological Society of
Washington 98 (March 1985): 98-106, 3 figs.

"Two New Species of Two New Gammaridean Genera
(Crustacea: Amphipoda) from the Florida Keys."
‘Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 98
(March 1985): 191-203, 7 figs.

Van Dover, C. L.; Williams, Austin B.; and Factor, J. R. "The
First Zoeal Stage of a Hydrothermal Vent Crab (Decapoda:
Brachyura: Bythograeidae)." Proceedings of the Biological
Society of Washington 97 (2)(1984): 413-418.

Williams, Austin B. "The Mud Crab Panopeus herbstii, s.1l.
Partition Into Six Species (Decapoda: Xanthidae)."

Fishery Bulletin 81 (4)(1984 for 1983): 863-882.

Department of Mineral Sciences

Appleman, D. E.; Dana, James D.; and Pacific Geology. In

Magnificient Voyagers. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian
Institution Press. To be published October 1, 1985.

Bish, D. L., and Post, J. E. "Thermal Behavior of Todorokite
and Romanechite." Geological Society of America 16 (446)

(1984): (abstract).
Bowes, W. A.:; Kutina, J.; Asker, S. K.; Fredriksson, K.; and

Golightly, D. W. "A Porphry-type Mo-Cu Discovery at
Granite Mountain, Nevada." Global Tectonics and Metallurgy

1 (1985): 402-439.
Chamberlain. GC. P=: Docka, J. Aa: Post. d6 Bas and

Burnham, C. W. "Scapolite: Alkali Atom Configurations,
Antiphase Domains, and Compositional Variations." American
Mineralogist 70 (1985): 134-140.

Clarke, R. S., Jr. "Structural Development in the Santa
Catharina Meteorite." Meteoritics 19 (1984):

207-208(abstract).

Clarke, aR 4Sin, hes iSallamuthu,. Rist and "Goldsiteimar:.] 2h:
"Massive Schribersite in the Bellsbank and Santa Luzia
Meteorites." Meteoritics 19 (1984): 208 (abstract).

Len!
a)
(ve)
Dunn, P. J.; Rouse, R. C.; and Nelen, J. A. "Englishite, New
Chemical Data and a Second Occurrence, from the Tip Top

Pegmatite, Custer, South Dakota." Canadian Mineralogist 22
(1984): 469-470.

Dunn, P. J.; Peacor, D. R.; and Simmons, W. B. "Retzian -
(La), a New Mineral from Sterling Hill, Sussex County, New
Jersey." Mineralogical Magazine 48 (1984): 533-535.

Dunn, P. J. "Barian Muscovite from Franklin, New Jersey."
Mineralogical Magazine 48 (1984): 562-563.

Dunn, P. J., and Rouse, R. C. "Freedite and Thorikosite from

Langban, Sweden, and Laurion, Greece: Two New Species
Related to the Synthetic Bismuth Oxyhalides." American
Mineralogist 70 (1985): 845-848.

Dunn, P.J.; Petersen, E. U.; and Peacor, D. R. "Turneaureite,
a New Member of the Apatite Group from Franklin, New
Jersey, Balmat, New York, and Langban, Sweden." Canadian
Mineralogist 23" (7985) tu 251-254.

Dunn, °Ps-J. "Manganese Humites and Leucophoenicites from
Franklin and Sterling Hill, New Jersey: Parageneses,
Compositions, and Implications for Solid Solution Limits."
American Mineralogist 70 (1985): 379-387.

Dunn, P. J.; Peacor, D. R.; Simmons, W. B.; and Gaines, R. V.
"Sverigeite, a New Tin Beryllium Silicate Mineral from
Langban, Varmland, Sweden." Geologiska Foreningens
Forhanlingar <i “Stockholm 106 (1984): 175-177...

Dunn, P. J., and Ferraiolo, J. A. "Memorial of
Earl Shannon". American Mineralogist 69 (1984): 993.

Dunn; °P. J.;°Péeacor, D.. Ri; Leavens, P. B.; and Wicks; “F. “J.
"Minehillite, a New Layer Silicate Related to Reyerite and
Truscottite. American Mineralogist 69 (1984): 1150-1155.

Etz ESS! sNewbucy, (Dw ES: Dunn Ps od Shand Grice, -d-4 Dp?
"Application of Synergistic Microanalysis Techniques to the
Study of a Possible New Mineral Containing Light

Elements." Microbeam Analysis - 1985 (1985): 60-64.
Fredriksson, K.; Clarke, R. S., Jr.; and Pugh, R. "A New H-3
Chondrite from Study Butte, Texas." Meteoritics 19 (4):

°225-226(abstract).
Fredriksson, «Kii-Murty 4S. Vio St. and Marti. K:-="Some

Chemical and Isotopic Observations in Chondrules."
Meteoritics 20 (2/2): 347-357.

Fiske, Ri S., and*Nielsen, E.°- "Church's. Cotopaxi: -A-Modern
Volconological Perspective." In Creation and Renewal,
Views of Cotopaxi by Frederic Edwin Church (1985): 1-6.
Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press.

Grice, J. D.; Van Velthuizen, J.; and Dunn, P. J. "A New
Yttrium-borate-carbonate Mineral from the Evans-Lou
Pegmatite, Quebec, Geological Association of
Canada/Mineralogical Association of Canada, 1985 Joint
Meeting, Programs with Abstracts (1985): A23.
Grice, J: De, Peacor,, D.wR.c7 Robinson. G.% Wes
Van Velthuizen, J.; Roberts, W. L.; Campbell, T. J.: and
Dunn, Pe. J...) "“Tiptopa te,

(Li, K, Na, Ca)gBeg(POq4)¢(OH)q. a New Mineral
Species from the Black Hills, South Dakota." Canadian
Mineralogist 23 (1985): 43-46.

Hinton, R. W.; Grossman, L.; and MacPherson, G. J. "Magnesium
and Calcium Isotopes in Hibonite-bearing CAI's."
Meteoritics 19 (1984): 240-241 (abstract).

Jarosewich, E., and Dodd, R. T. "Chemical Variations Among
L-chondrites- IV." Analyses, with petrographic notes of 13
L-group and 3 LL-group chondrites. Meteoritics 20 (1985):
23-36.

MacPherson, G. J.; Grossman, L.; Hashimoto, A.;

Bar-Matthews, M.; and Tanaka, T. "Petrographic Studies of
Refractory Inclusions from the Murchison Meteorite."
Journal of Geophysical Research Supplement 89 (1984):

C299-C312.

MacPherson, G. J., Grossman, L. "Accretionary Rims on
Inclusions in Allende: Clues to the Accretion of the
Allende Parent Body." Geochimica et Cosmochimica Acta. In
press.

MacPherson, G. J. Refractory Inclusions in the Mighei C2
Meteorite. Meteoritics 19 (1984): 262-263 (abstract).

MacPherson, G. J., and Delaney, J. S. "AR Fassaite-two
olivine-pleonaste-bearing Refractory Inclusion from
Karoonda." Lunar and Planetary Science 16: 515-516
(abstract).

Melson, W. G. "Alternation Between Acidic and Basic Magmas in

Major Explosive Eruptions of Arenal Volcano, Costa Rica."
Boletin de Volcanolgia (Universidat Nacional, Costa Rica)
174 (1985 ).: 65-76.

Murase, T.; McBirney, A. R.; and Melson, W. G. "Viscosity of
the Dome of Mount St. Helens." Journal Volcanology and
Geothermal Research 24 (1985): 193-204.

Oen, I. S.; Dunn, P. J.: and Kieft, C. "The Nickel Arsenide
Assemblage from Franklin, New Jersey." Neues Jahrbuch fiir
Mineralogie, Abhandlungen 150 (1984): 259-272.

Pagoaga, K.; Appleman, D. E.; and Stewart, J. M. "Protasite,
a New Mineral of the Uranyl Oxide Hydrate Group."
Mineralogical Magazine. In press.

Peacor,. .D. R.; Dunn, P. J.: and Simmons, W. B.
"Earlshannonite, the Mn Analogue of Whitmoreite, from North
Carolina." Canadian Mineralogist 22 (1984): 472-474.

Peacor, -D. R.; Dunn, PP. J.«; and Simmons, Wa Ba “Raulkerrite;
a New Titanium Phosphate from Arizona." Mineralogical

Record 15 (1984): 303-306.
Peacor, D,. Rei Dunn, PP. Jin} Ramik, Rw An: Campbells)! Tat ss sand

Roberts, W. L. "A Wicksite-like Mineral from the Bull
Moose Mine, South Dakota." Canadian Mineralogist 23

(1985): 247-249.

I40
PeacoreD. a.Ri0r Dunn: oP.) Joe Ramik > “Rs aA “Sturman, B.D. : “and
Zeihen, L. G. "Philipsburgite, a New Copper Zinc Arsenate
Hydrate Related to Kipushite, from Montana." Canadian
Mineralogist 23 (1985): 255-258.

Peacor, D. R.; Dunn, P. J.; Schnorrer-Kohler, G.; and

Bideaux, R. A. "Mammothite, a New Mineral from Tiger,
Arizona, and Laurium, Greece." Mineralogical Record 16
(1985): 117-120.

Peacor, D. R., and Dunn, P. J. "Sodium-pharmacosiderite, a

New Analog of Pharmacosiderite from Australia, and New
Occurrences of Barium-pharmacosiderite from Australia."
Mineralogical Record 16 (1985): 121-124.

Petersen,. O.<V.3."Bolilhorn,) 3.4 .and Dunn Pid. "A Highly
Magnesian Alleghanyite from Sterling Hill, New Jersey."
Mineralogical Record 15 (1984): 299-302.

Post, J. E., and Busek, P. R. "Quantitative Energy Dispersive
Analysis of Lead Halide Particles from the Phoenix Urban
Aerosol." Environmental Science and Technology. In press.

Post, J. E., and Burnham, C. W. "Disordering in High Albite:
Insights from Electrostatic Energy Minimizations."

Geological Society of America Abstracts 16: 625 (abstract).

Rachlin, .-A.<.b.3.Mandarino, J. A.3) Ramik,. R.. A.

Murowchick, B. L.; and Dunn, P. J. "Mineralogy of
Hilgardite from New Brunswick." Geological Association of
Canada/Mineralogical Association of Canada, 1985 Joint
Meeting, Programs with Abstracts (1985): A50O.

Rouse, R. C., and Dunn, P. J. "A Re-examination of
Sahlintie." Neues Jahrbuch fiir Mineralogie Monatschefte
(1985): 127-131.

Rouse,-R.~C.,.,.and.Dunn,, P.. ds. "ThesStructure of Thorikosite;
a Naturally Occuring Member of the Bismuth Oxyhalide
Group." «Journal of }Solid. State Chemistry°57 (19865).

Rouse, R.# C.3.Dunn,.Ps J.¢)and«Peacor; .D.. RE "Hedyphane from
Franklin, New Jersey, and Langban, Sweden: Cation Ordering
in an Arsenate Apatite." American Mineralogist 69 (1984):
920-927.

Roy-Poulsen, H.; Larsen L.; Roy-Poulsen, N. 0.; Vistisen, L.;
and Clarke,.R..Si, Ir. "Mossbauer Spectroscopy and X-ray
Diffraction of Samples from the Santa Catharina Iron
Meteorite." Meteoritics 19 (1984): 303 (abstract).

Rubin,-A.-EB.j;adames,+3. Az:..Keck; BiasaDzs Weeks siK.S.5
Sears, D. G.; and Jarosewich, E. "The Colony Meteorite and
Variations in CO3 Chondrite Properties." Meteoritics 20
(1985): 175-196.

Simkin, T. S.;,.and McClelland, <L.é- "Spurred byBvents;
Volcanology Thrives." Geotimes 29 (1984): 15-16.

I4I
142

Sorensen, S. S. "Petrologic Evidence for Jurassic, Island-arc
Like Basement Rocks in the Southwestern Transverse Ranges
and Southern California Borderland." Geological Society of
America Bulletin. In press.

"Trace Element Effects of Eclogite/Peridotite
Metasomatism, Catalina Schist Terrane, Southern California."
Geological Society of America Abstracts, with Programs 16
(1984): 663 (abstract).

"Metamorphism of Jurassic, Island-arc-basement Rocks
from the Transverse Ranges and Southern California
Borderland." Geological Society of America Abstracts 17
(19:85): 410.

Stolper, E.; MacPherson, G. J.; Beckett, J. R.; and

Grossman, L. "Thermometry of Ca-Al-rich Inclusions."
Lunar Planetary Science 16: 827-828 (abstract).
Walenta, K., and Dunn, P. J. "Arsenogoyazit, ein neues

Mineral der Crandallitgruppe aus dem Schwarzwald."

Schweizerishe Mineralogische und Petrographische
Mitteilungen 64 (1984): 11-19.

White, J. S. "Vanadinite from Touissit, Morocco, and Comments
on Endlichite." Mineralogical Record 15 (1984): 347-350.

Department of Paleobiology

Anastasakis, G. C., and Stanley, D. J. "Sapropels and
Organic-rich Variants in the Mediterranean: Sequence
Development and Classification." Edited by D. A. V. Stow
and D. J. W. Piper. In Fine-Grained Sediments: Deep Water
Processes and Facies: Geological Society of London Special

Publication 15 (1984): 497-510. Oxford: Blackwell
Scientific Publications.

Barnes; b2.G.'s “Domning, D. P.3“and Ray, Cs EB... —"Status*ot
Studies on Fossil Marine Mammals." Marine Mammal Science 1
CAD G29'3'S i: 5 =53".

Behrensmeyer, A. K. "Taphonomy: New Insights for the Fossil
Record." American Scientist 72 (6)(1984): 558-66.

"Miocene Fluvial Facies and Vertebrate Taphonomy in
Pakistan." Third International Fluvial Sedimentology

Conference, August 7-9, 1985, Fort Collins, Colorado:
Abstract Volume (1985): 8 (abstract).

Behrensmeyer, A. K., and Kidwell, S. M. "Taphonomy's
Contributions to Paleobiology." Paleobiology 11
(1) (1985): 105-19.

Benson, R. HH. "Estimating Greater Paleodepths with

Ostracodes, Especially in Past Thermospheric Oceans."

Palaeogeography, Palaeoclimatology, Palaeoecology 48
(1) (1984): 107-41.
Cheetham, A. H. "Mechanical Vs. Spatial Constraints on
Arborescent Growth in Evolution of Cheilostome Bryozoans."
In Geological Society of America Abstracts with Programs,
Northeastern Section Meeting 17 (1)(1985): 10 (abstract).
"Branching, Biomechanics and Bryozoan Evolution." In
Discussion Meeting on Growth and Form of Modular Organisms,

London, England, June 27-28, 1985, Abstracts (1985): 3
(abstract). London: The Royal Society.

Culver, S. J., and Buzas, M. A. "Distribution of Recent
Benthic Foraminifera off the North American Pacific Coast:
Oregon to Alaska." Smithsonian Contributions to the Marine
Sciences#cnos.~26(1985)-; "Washington, D:. Gs: -Smithsonian
Institution Press.

Gerges; Mie Av, and Stanley, D.i%d. "Assessing Hydrography
and Man's Influence on Sediments in the Northern Suez
Canal." Marine Geology 65 (3/4)(1985): 325-31.

Graus, R. R.; Macintyre, I. G.; and Herchenroder, B. E.
Environmental Control of Caribbean Reef Zonation:
Experiments in Computer Simulation." In Joint Meeting of
the Atlantic Reef Committee and the International Society
for Reef Studies, Miami, Florida, October 26-28, 1984,
Abstracts (1984): 45 (abstract). Miami: University of
Miami.

"Computer Simulation of the Holocene Facies History
of a Caribbean Fringing Reef, Galeta Point, Panama." In
Proceedings of the Fifth International Coral Reef Congress,
Tahiti, 27 May-1 June, 1985: Volume 2, Abstracts (1985):
154. Edited by C. Gabrie, J. L. Toffart, and B. Salvat.
Moorea, French Polynesia: Antenne Museum-EPHE.

Hill, Andrew, and Behrensmeyer, A. K. "Disarticulation
Patterns of Some Modern East African Mammals."

Paleobiology 10 (3)(1984): 366-76.

"More Natural Disarticulation and Butchery."
American Antiquity 50 (1)(1985): 141-45.

Macintyre, I. G. "Preburial and Shallow-Subsurface Alteration
of Modern Scleractinian Corals." In Recent Advances in the
Paleobiology and Geology of the Cnidafia, Proceedings of
the Fourth International Symposium on Fossil Cnidaria,
Washington, D.C., August, 1983; Palaeontographica
Americana, no. 54 (1984): 229-44. Edited by W. A. Oliver,
Wil "Sando. SS: Dé Cairns, A. G. Coates; Ts"G. Macintyre,
EFoeMi- Bayer; and J.B. Soravt:. Ithaca, New York:
Paleontological Research Institute.

"Submarine Cements - The Peloidal Question." In
Carbonate Cements: Society of Economic Paleontologists and
Mineralogists Special Publication, no. 36 (1985): 109-16.
Edited by N. Schneidermann and P. M. Harris. Tulsa:

Society of Economic Paleontologists and Mineralogists.

Wo
144

Macintyre, I. G.; Multer, H. G.; Zankl, H. L.; Hubbard, D. K.;
Weiss, M. P.; and Stuckenrath, R. "Growth and Depositional
Facies of a Windward Reef Complex, Nonsuch Bay, Antigua,
W.I." In Proceedings of the Fifth International Coral Reef
Congress, Tahiti, 27 May-l June, 1985: Volume 2, Abstracts
€7985)° .260...Edited.by ¢. Gabrie, J. cLecToffarts cand
B. Salvat. Moorea, French Polynesia: Antenne Museum-EPHE.

Mamay, S. H., and Reed, B. L. "Permian Plant Megafossils from
the Conglomerate of Mount Dall, Central Alaska Range." In
The United States Geological Survey in Alaska:
Accomplishments During 1981; United States Geological
Survey Circular 868 (1984): 98-102. Edited by
W. L. Coonrad and R. L. Elliott. Reston: United States
Geological Survey.

Mamay, S. H.; Miller, J. L.; and Rohr, D. M. "Late Leonardian:
Plants from West Texas: The Youngest Paleozoic Plant
Megafossils in North America." Science 223 (4633)(1984):
279-81.

Neumann, A. C., and Macintyre, I. G. "Reef Response to Sea
Level Rise: Keep-up, Catch-up, or Give-up." In
Proceedings of the Fifth International Coral Reef Congress,
Tahiti, 27 May-1l June 1985: Volume 2, Abstracts (1985):
266. Edited by C. Gambrie, J. L. Toffart, and B. Salvat.
Moorea, French Polynesia: Antenne Museum-EPHE.

Oliver, W. A.; Sando, W. J.; Cairns, S. D.; Coates, A. G.;
Macintyre, I. G.; Bayer, F. M.; and Sorauf, J. E. Recent
Advances in the Paleobiology and Geology of the Cnidaria,
Proceedings of the Fourth International Symposium on Fossil
Cnidaria, Washington, D.C., August, 1983; Palaeontographica
Americana, no. 54 (1984). Ithaca, New York:
Paleontological Research Institute.

Pierce, J. W.; Correll, De L.3 Goldberg, Bernard: “and
Klein, W. H. "Variability in Concentration of Suspensates
in an Estuarine Environment." Geo-Marine Letters 4
(3-4) (1984-1985): 153-55.

Ray, C. E. "Fossil Seals from the Calvert Formation of the
Pamunkey River, Hanover County, Virginia." In Stratigraphy
and Paleontology of the Outcropping Tertiary Beds in the
Pamunkey River Region, Central Virginia Coastal Plain,
Guidebook for the 1984 Field Trip, Atlantic Coastal Plain
Geological Association (1984): 232-35. Edited by
L. W. Ward and Kathleen Krafft. Norfolk: Old Dominion
University.

Ray, C. E., and Sanders, A. E. "Pleistocene Tapirs in the
Eastern United States." In Contributions in Quaternary
Vertebrate Paleontology: A Volume in Memorial to
John E. Guilday: Special Publication of Carnegie Museum of

Natural History, no. 8 (1984): 283'=3:L5:. Edited by
H. H. Genoways and M. R. Dawson. Pittsburgh: Carnegie
Museum of Natural History.
Shipp.” R:(C.; Staples, S..A.3. and Adeyis W:... H.i 'Geomorphologic
Trends in a Glaciated Coastal Bay: A Model for the Maine
Coast." Smithsonian Contributions to the Marine Sciences,
no. 25 (1985). Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution
Press.

Sorauf, J. E., and Macintyre, I. G. "Diagenesis ,of Carbonate
Material: Implications for the Study of Fossil Cnidaria -
Introduction, Invitational Symposium." In Recent Advances
in the Paleobiology and Geology of the Cnidaria;
Proceedings of the Fourth International Symposium on Fossil
Cnidaria, Washington, D.C., August, 1983; Palaeontographica
Americana, no. 54 (1984): 227-28. Edited by W. A. Oliver,
W.sd.22Sandot<S.=-D.~ Cai-rns,-A-- G. Coates’, ~1.<G.. Macintyre,
F. M. Bayer, and J. E. Sorauf. Ithaca, New York:
Paleontological Research Institute.

Stanley, D. J. "Mud Redeposition and Problems of Assessing
Microfossil, Isotopic, and Radiocarbon Data in the
Mediterranean." Marine Geology 62 (3/4)(1984): 381-89.

"Unifites: Structureless Muds of Gravity-Flow Origin
in Mediterranean Basins." Rapport de la Commission

Internationale pour 1'Exploration Scientifique de la Mer
Mediterranee, December, 1982, Cannes, France 28 (1984):
199-201.

"Symposium on Sedimentology in the Mediterranean
Summary Report." XXIXth Congress, Commission
Internationale pour 1'Exploration Scientifique de la Mer
Mediterranee, October 11-19, 1984, Lucerne, Switzerland

(1984).
"Mud Redepositional Processes as a Major Influence on
Mediterranean Margin-Basin Sedimentation." In Geological

Evolution of the Mediterranean Basin (1985): 337-410.
Edited by D. J. Stanley and F. C. Wezel. New York:
Springer-Verlag.

Stanley, D. J., and Wezel, F. C. eds. Geological Evolution of

the Mediterranean Basin (1985). New York: Springer-Verlag.

Stanley, D. J.; Nelsen, T. A.; and Stuckenrath, R. "Recent
Sedimentation on the New Jersey Slope and Rise." Sciencé
226 (4671)(1984): 125-33.

Waller, T. R. “Jurassic 'Malleidae' and the Distinction

between Ostreoida and Pterioda (Mollusca: Bivalvia)."
Journal of Paleontology 59 (3)(1985): 768-69.

Westgate, J. W., and Emry, R. J. "Land Mammals of the Crow
Creek Local Fauna, Late Eocene, Jackson Group, St. Francis
County, Arkansas." Journal of Paleontology 59 (1)(1985):
242-48.
Whitmore, F. C., Jr. "Cetaceans from the Calvert and Eastover
Formations, Pamunkey River, Virginia." In Stratigraphy and

Paleontology of the Outcropping Tertiary Beds in the-
Pamunkey River Region, Central Virginia Coastal Plain,
Guidebook for the 1984 Field Trip, Atlantic Coastal Plain

Geological Association (1984): 227-31. Edited by
L. W. Ward and Kathleen Krafft. Norfolk: Old Dominion

University.

"Land Mammals from the Calvert Formation, Pamunkey
River, Virginia." In Stratigraphy and Paleontology of the
Outcropping Tertiary Beds in the Pamunkey River Region,
Central Virginia Coastal Plain, Guidebook for the 1984

Field Trip, Atlantic Coastal Plain Geological Association
(1984): 236-39. Edited by L. W. Ward and

Kathleen Krafft. Norfolk: Old Dominion University.

Review of "American Science in the Age of Jefferson,"
by J. C. Green. Earth Sciences History 3 (2)(1984):
188-90.

Review of "Sea of Slaughter," by Farley Mowat.
Audubon Naturalist News 11 (4)(1985): 8.

Wing, S. L. "A New Basis for Recognizing the Paleocene Eocene
Boundary in Western Interior North America." Science 226
(4673)(1984): 439-41.

Review of "Catastrophes and Earth History." Edited by
W. A. Berggren and J. A. Van Couvering. Earth Sciences
Bistoxy 3 (2) (4984): 190-91.

- "Impressions of Fallen Leaves." Earth Science 37

(4) (1984): 16-17.

"Eocene and Oligocene Vegetation of the Northern
Rocky Mountains." In Proceedings of the Pacific Division,
American Association for the Advancement of Science, 66th
Annual Meeting, University of Montana, Missoula, June 9-14,
1985, Program with Abstracts 4 (part 1)(1985): 43

(abstract).

Wing. S. L., and Bown, T. M. "Fine Scale Reconstruction of
the Late Paleocene-Early Eocene Paleogeography in the
Bighorn Basin of Northern Wyoming." In Cenozoic

Paleogeography of the West Central United States, Rocky
Mountain Symposium 3 (1985): 93-105. Edited by
R. M. Flores and S. Kaplan. Denver: Rocky Mountain
Section, Society of Economic Paleontologists and
Mineralogists.

“Late Paleocene-Early Eocene Paleogeography of the
Bighorn Basin, Wyoming." In Society of Economic
Paleontologists and Mineralogists, Annual Midyear Meeting,

Golden, Colorado, August 11-14, 1985, Abstracts 2 (1985):
98 (abstract).

Wing. S. L., and Tiffney, B. H. "Evolution of Angiosperms and
Terrestrial Herbivores." In Third International Congress

of Systematic and Evolutionary Biology, Brighton, Sussex,

England, July 4-10, 1985: Abstract Volume (1985): 214
(abstract).
Yochelson, E. L. The National Museum of Natural History
(1985). Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press.
Review of "Disclosing the Past," by Mary Leakey.
Science Books and Films 20 (4)(1985): 200.
. Review of "Discoverers of the Lost World," by
G. G. Simpson. Science Books and Films 20 (4)(1985): 201.

Yochelson, E. L., and Nuelle, L. M. "Strepsodiscus
(Gastropoda) in the Late Cambrian of Missouri." Journal of

Paleontology 59 (3)(1985): 733-40.
Yochelson, E. L.; Boyd, D. W.; and Wardlaw, B. R.
"Redescription of Bellerophon bittneri (Gastropoda:

Triassic) from Wyoming." Contributions to Geology 23
(2) (1985): 99-104.

Department of Vertebrate Zoology

Ahlstrom, E. H.; Richards, W. J.:; and Weitzman, S$. H.
"Families Gonostomatidae, Sternoptychidae, and Associated
Stomiiform Groups: Development and Relationships." In
Ontogeny and Systematics of Fishes (1984): 184-198.

Edited by H. G. Moser and W. J. Richards. American Society
of Ichthyologists and Herpetologists.

Anderson, W. D., Jr., and Johnson, G. D. "A New Species of
Callanthias (Pisces: Perciformes: Percoidei:
Callanthiidae) from the Southeastern Pacific Ocean."

Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 97
(4)(1984): 942-950.

Beehler, Bruce M. "Conservation of New Guinea Rainforest
Birds." International Council for Bird Preservation
Technical Publication, no. 4 (1985): 233-247.

Carleton, Michael D. "Macroanatomy." In Biology of New World

Microtus, Special Publication no. 8 (1985): 116-175.

Edited by R. H. Tamarin. American Society of Mammalogists.
Cooke, Richard G., and Olson, Storrs L. "An Archaeological

Record for the White-faced Whistling-duck (Dendrocygna
viduata) in Central Panama." Condor 86 (4)(1984): 493-494.

147
[o'2)

Gibbs, Robert H., Jr. "“Astronesthidae." In Fishes of the
North-eastern Atlantic and the Mediterranean (1984):
325-335. Edited by P. J. P. Whitehead, et al. Paris:
UNESCO. :

"Chauliodontidae." In Fishes of the North-eastern
Atlantic and the Mediterranean (1984): 336-337. Edited by
P. J. P. Whitehead, et al. Paris: UNESCO.

"Stomiidae." In Fishes of the North-eastern Atlantic
and the Mediterranean (1984): 338-340. Edited by
P. J. P. Whitehead, et al. Paris: UNESCO.

"Melanostomiidae." In Fishes of the North-eastern
Atlantic and the Mediterranean (1984): 341-365. Edited by
P. J. P. Whitehead, et al. Paris: UNESCO.

"Malacosteidae." In Fishes of the North-eastern
Atlantic and the Mediterranean (1984): 366-370. Edited by
P. J. P. Whitehead, et al. Paris: UNESCO.

"Tdiacanthidae." In Fishes of the North-eastern
Atlantic and the Mediterranean (1984): 371-372. Edited by
P. J. P. Whitehead, et al. Paris: UNESCO.

Gomon, Janet R., and Gibbs, Robert H., Jr. "Taxonomy and
Distribution of the Stomioid Fish Genus Eustomias
(Melanostomiidae), II: Biradiostomias, New Subgenus."
Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology 409 (1985): i-iii,
1-58.

Handley, Charles. "New Species of Mammals from Ronen South

America: A Long-Tongued Bat, Genus Anoura Gray.

Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 97
C3) (1984): 513-521.

"The Black-Headed Gull Inland in Virginia

(March 1983-January 1985)." The Raven 54 (1)(1985): 18-20.
Hansen, Larry. J.: ‘Perrin, William F.; Sokolov,. Anatoli SS.) -and
Mead, James G. "A List of American and Soviet Institutions
Possessing Collections of Osteological Specimens from
Pinnipeds and Sea Otters." In Soviet-American Cooperative

Research on Marine Mammals 1 (1984): 101-104. Pinnipeds.
Edited by F. H. Fay and G. A. Fedoseev.

Heyer, W. Ronald. "Variation, Systematics, and Zoogeography
of Eleutherodactylus gquentheri and Closely Related Species
(Amphibia: Anura: Leptodactylidae)." Smithsonian
Contributions to Zoology 402 (1984): 1-42.

"Taxonomic and Natural History Notes on Frogs of the

Genus Centrolenella (Amphibia: Centrolenidae) from
Southeastern Brasil and Adjacent Argentina." Papeis

Avulsos de Zoologia 36 (1)(1985): 1-21.

"The Systematic Status of Adenomera griseigularis
Henle, with Comments on Systematic Problems in the Genus
Adenomera (Amphibia: Leptodactylidae)." Amphibia-Reptilia
Se C2) 1(09:8'5 ) 7 97-100.
Keene, M. J., and Tighe, K. A. "Beryciformes: Development
and Relationships." In Ontogeny and Systematics of Fishes,
Special Publication no. 1 (1984): 383-392. Edited by
H. G. Moser, et al. American Society of Ichthyologists and
Herpetologists. beim

Mead, James G. Review of "Strandings, Ways to Save Whales: A
‘Humane Conservationists Guide," by F. D. Robson. African
Wildlife 38 (4)(1984): 168-169. i

"Survey of Reproductive Data for the Beaked Whales
(Ziphiidae)." Reports of the International Whaling
Commission, Special Issue no. 6 (1984): 91-96.

Mead, James G., and Mitchell, Edward D. "Atlantic Gray
Whales." In The Gray Whale (1984): 33-53. Edited by

_ M. L. Jones, S. L. Swartz, and S. Leatherwood.

Olson, Storrs L. "A Brief Synopsis of the Fossil Birds from
the Pamunkey River and Other Tertiary Marine Deposits in
Virginia." Stratigraphy and Paleontology of the
Outcropping Tertiary Beds in the Pamunkey River Region,
Central Virginia Coastal Plain. Guidebook for the 1984
Field Trip Atlantic Coastal Plain Geological Association
(1984): 217-223. Edited by Lauck W. Ward and
Kathleen Krafft. Norfolk: Atlantic Coastal Plain
Geological Association.

"The Last St. Kitts Bullfinch Loxigilla portoricensis
grandis (Emberizinae) and the Extinction of Its Race."
Bulletin of the British Ornithologists’ Club 104
(4) (1984): 121-123.

"The Relationships of the Extinct Chatham Island
Eagle." Notornis 31 (4)(1984): 273-277.

"AR Hamerkop from the Early Pliocene of South Africa
(Aves: Scopidae)." Proceedings of the Biological Society
of Washington 97 (4)(1984): 736-740.

"Evidence of a Large Albatross in the Miocene of
Argentina (Aves: Diomedeidae)." Proceedings of the
Biological Society of Washington 97 (4)(1984): 741-743.

"A New Species of Siphonorhis from Quaternary Cave

Deposits in Cuba (Aves: Caprimulgidae)." Proceedings of
the Biological Society of Washington 98 (2)(1985): 526-532.

"The Italian Specimen of Bulweria fallax
(Procellariidae)." Bulletin of the British Ornithologists'
Gib 0512s). GL 9185) % 29-30.

"Weights of Some Cuban Birds." Bulletin of the
British Ornithologists' Club 105 (2)(1985): 68-69.

"The Fossil Record of Birds." Avian Biology 8

(1985): 79-238. Edited by Donald S. Farner,
James R. King, and Kenneth C. Parkes. New York and
London: Academic Press.

"Pleistocene Birds of Puerto Rico." National
Geographic Society Research Reports 18 (1985): 563-566.

"Possil Seabirds and Marine Environments [Reply to
M. R. Cooper and M. P. Stuart Irwin]." South African
Journal of Science 81 (6)(1985): 290-291.

"Barly Pliocene Procellariiformes (Aves) from
Langebaanweg, South-western Cape Province, South Africa."
Annals of the South African Museum 95 (3)(1985): 123-145.

149
oO

"An Early Pliocene Marine Avifauna from Duinefontein,
Cape Province, South Africa." Annals of the South African
Museum 95 (4)(1985): 147-164.

Olson, Storrs L., and Ames, Peter L. "Promerops as a Thrush
and Its Implications for the Evolution of Nectarivory in
Birds." Ostrich 56 (4)(1984): 213-218.

Potter, iC. Wi: "Marine Mammals of Maryland." In Threatened
and Endangered Plants and Animals of Maryland, Special
Publication 84-1 (1984): 442-453. Edited by A. W. Norden,
D. C. Forester, and G. H. Fenwick. Maryland Natural
Heritage Program.

Ripley, S$. Dillon. "Conservation." The Phenomenon of Change
(1984): 68.

"Know thy Neighbor as Thyself." Interdisciplinary
Science Reviews 9 (3)(1984): 196-199.
"The Sacred Grove: An Afterword." Museum Studies

Journal 1 (5)(1984): 48-49.

"Hypsipetes madagascariensis sinensis (La Touche): A
First Record for India." Journal of the Bombay Natural
History Society 81 (1)(1984): 195-196.

Review of Dear Lord Rothschild, by Miriam Rothschild.
American Scientist 72 (6)(1984): 617-618.

Springer, Victor G. "Oman ypsilon, a New Genus and Species of
Blenniid Fish from the Indian Ocean." Proceedings of the
Biological Society of Washington 98 (1)(1985): 90-97.

Steadman, David W., and Olson, Storrs L. "Bird Remains from

an Archaeological Site on Henderson Island, South Pacific:
Man-caused Extinctions on an 'Uninhabited' Island."

Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences 82 (1985):
6191-6195.

Thorington, R. W., Jr. "Flying Squirrels Are Monophyletic.
Science 225 (1984): 1048-1050.

"The Taxonomy and Distribution of Squirrel Monkeys

(Saimiri)." In Handbook of Squirrel Monkey Research

(2985): 1-33. Edited by L. A. Rosenblum and C. L. Coe.
Tighe, K. A., and Keene, M. J. "Zeiformes: Development and

Relationships." In Ontogeny and Systematics of Fishes,

Special Publication no. 1 (1984): 393-398. Edited by
H. G. Moser, et al. American Society of Ichthyologists and
Herpetologists.

Vari, Richard P. "Two New Fish Species of the Genus Curimata
(Pisces: Curimatidae) from Venezuela." Acta Biologica
Venezuelica 11 (4)(1984): 27-43.

"Family Teraponidae." In FAO Species Identification
Sheets for Fisheries Purposes, Western Indian Ocean
(1984): 13 pages.

"Family Ambassidae." In FAO Species Identification
Sheets for Fisheries Purposes, Western Indian Ocean
(1984): 2 pages.

"Systematics of the Neoeage ca Gate eee Genus
Potamorhina (Pisces: Characiformes). Smithsonian
Contributions to Zoology 400 (1985): 1-36.

"A New Species of Bivibranchia (Pisces:
Characiformes) from Surinam, with Comments on the Genus.”

Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 98
(2) (1985): 511-522.
Weitzman, M. J., and Weitzman, S. H. "A Brazilian Biologist -
A Permanéncia de Rodolpho von Ihering, Livro Jubilar pela
Passagem do Primeiro Centenario do Seu Nascimento
(1883-1983). Melquiades Pinto Paiva. Ed. Fundagao
Brasileira para a Conservacao de Rio de Janeiro, Brasil.

1984. 212 pp. ills. Paper $8." Science 288 (1985):
U72-173" “

Weitzman, S. H. "Biogeography of the Glandulocaudine Characid
Freshwater Fishes of South America." In National

Geographic Society Research Reports, 1977. National
Geographic Society 18 (1985): 775-778.

Wetmore, Alexander; Pasquier, Roger F.; and Olson, Storrs L.
"Birds of the Republic of Panama. Part 4: Order
Passeriformes, Suborder Passeres, Hirundinidae (Swallows)

to Fringillidae (Finches)." Smithsonian Miscellaneous
Collections 150 (4)(1984): vi, 670.
Williams, Jeffrey T. "Cirripectes imitator, a New Species of

Western Pacific Blenniid Fish." Proceedings of the
Biological Society of Washington 98 (2)(1985): 533-538.

Zug, George R. "Pacific Island Lizards -- Status of Type
Specimens from the US Exploring Expedition." Copeia 1

(1985): 150-154.
"AR New Skink (Reptilia: Sauria: Leiolopisma) from

Fiji." Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington
918i a1) G19'8:5:)r3 221=—23) 1.

. Review of "The Rattlesnake." Science Books and Films
20 (4)(1985): 219.
Review of "The Alligator." Science Books and Films

20: -€5))(€198 5) 309..
- "Anuran Locomotion: Fatigue and Jumping Performance."
Herpetologica 41 (2)(1985): 188-194.
Review of "The Book of Indian Reptiles."

Herpetologica 41 (2)(1985): 236-237.

Zug, George R., and Balazs, George H. "Skeletochronological
Age Estimates for Hawaiian Green Turtles." Marine Turtle
Newsletter 33 (1985): 9-10.

Smithsonian Oceanographic Sorting Center

Boxshall, G.; Ferrari, F.; and Tiemann, H. eds. "The
Ancestral Copepod: Towards a Concensus Opinion at the
First International Conference on Copepoda." Crustaceana
Supplement 7 (1984): 68-84.

Ferraris, Fi. "A Copepodologist's Thoughts About Punctuated
Equilibrai." Crustaceana 47 (1984): 220-224.

"Pleiotropy and Pleuromamma, the Looking-glass
Copepods." Crustaceana Supplement 7 (1984): 166-181.
Hendler, G. "Brittlestar Color-change and Phototaxis
(Echinodermata: Ophiuroidea: Ophiocomidae)."
P.S.Z.N.I1.: Marine Ecology 5 (4)(1984): 379-401.
Landrum, Bi. J., "Biclogical Services. and Collections.” U.S.
Antarctic Journal of the U.S. 18 (5)(1984): 294-295.
Menez, E. G. "History of Philippine Phycology." In

Proceedings of the First Philippines-US Phycology Workshop,
October 24-November 5, 1984. Manila, Philippines.

Menez, E. G., and Calumpong, H. P. "Halophila decipiens: An
Unreported Seagrass in the Philippines." Proceedings of

the Biological Society of Washington 98 (1)(1985): 232-236.

Smithsonian Marine Station at Link Port

Byrne, Maria. "The Mechanical Properties of the
Autotomy Tissues of the Holothurian Eupentacta
quinguesemita (Selenka) and the Effects of Certain

Physico-chemical Agents. Journal of Experimental Biology
D7 GESBIS)2

Harasewych, M. G. "Comparative Anatomy of Four
Primitive Muricacean Gastropods: Implications for
Trophonine Phylogeny." American Malacological Bulletin 3
(1) (1984): 11-26. 2

Jensen, Paul R.; Gibson, Robert A.; Littler, Mark M.; and
Littler, Diane S. "Photosynthesis and Calcifiction in Four
Deep-Water Halimeda Species (Chlorophycae, Caulerpales).
Journal of Deep-Sea Research 32 (4)(1985): 451-464.

Kristensen, Reinhardt Mobjerg, and Higgins, Robert P.
"A New Family of Arthrotardigrada (Tardigrada: >
Heterotardigrada) from the Atlantic Coast of Florida

U.S.A." Transactions of the American Microscopical Society
Os 63) (1984's 29'5=—3 02

Littler, Mark M.; Littler, Diane; Blair, Stephen; and

Norris, James N. "The Deepest Known Plant Life on Earth Is
Discovered on an Uncharted Seamount." Science 227 (1985):
57-59.

Manning, Raymond B., and Holthuis, L. B. "Geryon
fenneri, a New Deep-water Crab from Florida (Crustacea:
Decapoda: Geryonidae)." Proceedings of the Biological
Society of Washington 97 (3)(1984): 666-673.

Rice, Mary E. "Description of a Wood-dwelling

Sipunculan Phascolosoma turnerae, New Species."

Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 98
(1) (2985): 54-60.

Rice, Mary E., and Reichardt, Hugh F. "Larval
Development and Metamorphosis of Siphonosoma cumanense
(Keferstein, 1867)(Sipuncula)." American Zoologist 24
(3)(1984): 242.

Schiff, H., and Manning, R. B. "Description of a Unique
Crustacean Eye." Journal of Crustacean Biology 4

(4)(1984): 604-614.
Publications of the National Zoological Park

Animal Departments

Beck, B. 1984. The great escape. On The Edge, 25:11,17.

Beck, B. 1985. Double jeopardy: The gorilla dilemma. Zoogoer, 14:9-15.
Bingaman, L. 1985. How fast can an alligator run? Zoogoer, 14:15-17.

Eisenberg, J. E. and E. Gould. 1984. The insectivores. A. Jolly, P.
Oberlé and R. Albignac (eds). Key Environments. Madagascar. (New
York, Pergamon). Pp. 155-165.

Stevens, L. 1985. Genetic management through deception. Lion-Tales, 2:1.

Department of Animal Health

Alvarado, T.P. 1985. What is your diagnosis? J. Amer. Vet. Med. Assoc.
In press.

Alvarado, T.P. and R.J. Montali. 1985. What is your diagnosis? J. Amer.
Vet. Med. Assoc. In press.

Bush, M., R.J. Montali, L.G. Phillips, T.P. Alvarado and W.J. Ravich.
_(1985) Acute hemorrhagic enteritis in a male giant panda.
(Submitted)

Bush, M., R.J. Montali, L.G. Phillips, S.B. Citino, G. Boch, and Ed.
Ruley. (1985) Anemia and renal failure in a giant panda (Ailuropoda
melanoleuca). (Submitted).

Goodrowe, K.L. and D.E. Wildt. 1985. Ovarian response to gonadotropins in
natural and induced-estrus cats. Fed. Proc. p. 2536.

Goodrowe, K.L., P.K. Chakraborty and D.E. Wildt. 1985. Pituitary and
gonadal response to exogenous LH-releasing hormone in the male
domestic cat. J. Endocrinol. 105:175-181.
Hall, L.L., M. Bush, J.G. Howard and D.E. Wildt. 1985. Migration of sperm
from various species through a synthetic cervical mucus. Fed. Proc.
p. 2537.

Hall, L.L., M. Bush, J.G. Howard and D.E. Wildt. 1985. Intra-and inter-
species comparison of sperm migration through polyacrylamide gel as
an index of spermatozoal viability. Zoo Biol. (in press).

Hall, L.L., M. Bush, R.J. Montali, P.K. Chakroborty and D.E. Wildt. 1985.
Loss of genetic variation affects testes/endocrine function in the
male dog. Proceedings: 3rd Internat. Cong. Androl.

Knight, J. A., M. Bush, M. Celma, A. L. Garcia del Campo, R. Goltenboth, J.
P. Hearn, J. K. Hodges, D. M. Jones, H. G. Klos, L. Monsalve, R.
Montali, H. D. M. Moore. 1985. Veterinary aspects of reproduction in
the giant panda (Ailuropoda melanoleuca). Bongo (sumbitted).

O'Brien, S.J., M.E. Roelke, L. Marker, A. Newman, C.W. Winkler, D. Meltzer,
L. Colly, J. Everman, M. Bush and D.E. Wildt. 1985. Genetic basis
for species vulnerability in the cheetah. Science 227:1428-1434.

O'Brien, S.J., W.G. Nash, D.E. Wildt, M. Bush and R.E. Benveniste. 1985.
Riddle of the giant panda's phlogeny: A molecular solution. Nature
317:140-145.

Schiewe, M.C., J.G. Howard, L.S. Stuart, K.L. Goodrowe and D.E. Wildt.
1985. Human menopausal gonadotropin (hMG) for superovulation of
sheep. Proceedings: Inter. Embryo Trans. Soc., Theriogenology
23:227.

Schiewe, M.C., M. Bush and D.E. Wildt. 1985. Multiple ovulation induction
in sheep with human menopausal gonadotropin. Fed. Proc. p. 2537.

Schiewe, M.C., P.M. Schmidt, M. Bush and D.E. Wildt. 1985. Toxicity
potential of absorbed/retained ethylene oxide residues in culture
dishes on embryo development in vitro. J. Animal Sci.

Schmidt, P.M., C.T. Hansen and D.E. Wildt. 1985. Viability of frozen-
thawed mouse embryos is affected by genotype. Biol. Reprod. 32:507-
514.

Schmidt, P.M., M.C. Schiewe and D.E. Wildt. 1985. Variables influencing
post-thaw empryo survival rates in mice. Proceedings: Inter. Embroy

Trans. Soc., Theriogonology 23:229.

Schmidt, P.M., M.C. Schiewe and D.E. Wildt. 1985. Comparative aspects of
mouse embryo survival following thawing. Proceedings: Soc. Develop.
BOWS Sps elif;

Wildt, D.E. 1985. Reproductive techniques of potential use in the
artificial propagation of non-human primates. In: The Lion-Tailed
Macaque: Status and Conservation, P.G. Heltue, ed. Alan R. Liss,

Inc., New York, pp. 161-194.
Wildt, D.E. and D.F. Lawler. 1985. Laparoscopic sterilization of the
bitch and queen by uterine horn occlusion. Amer. J. Vet. Res.
46: 864-869.

Department of Conservation

Berger, J. and R. Rudman. 1985. Predation and interactions between
coyotes and feral horse foals. J. Mammal. 66(2):401-402.

Blohowiak, C. C. and P. B. Siegel. 1985. Mate preferences by males from
lines of Japanese quail (Coturnix coturnix japonica) selected for
mating frequence. 1. Preference among lines. Biology of Behavior,
10:87-95. .

Blohowiak, C. C. and P. B Siegel. 1985. Mate preferences by males form
lines of Japanese quail (Coturnix coturnix japonica) selected for
mating frequency. 2. Preference among plumage colors. Biology of
Behavior 10:97-103.

Blohowiak, C. C., T. L. DeSanto, Y. R. Lin, and C. Y. Lin. 1985. Diurnal,
premating, and postmating testosterone levels in roosters genetically
selected for mating frequency. Poultry Science, 64:1028-1030.

Blohowiak, C. C., D. J. Zelanka, and P. B. Siegel. 1985. Ontongeny of
aggressive-secual behavior between males in lines of Japanese quail
(Coturnix cotrunix japonica) selected for male mating frequency.
Journal of Comparative Psychology, 99:30-34.

Pfeifer, S. 1985. Flehmen and dominance among captive adult female
scimitar-horned oryx (Oryx damah). J. Mammal. 66(1):160-163.

Stuwe, M., and HK Hendrichs. 1984. Organization of roe deer (Capreolus
capreolus) in an open field habitat. Zeit. fur Saugetierkunde
49(6):359-667. fi

Wemmer, C. 1985. Black-footed ferret management and research: views of a
zoo biologist. In: Black-footed Ferret Workshop Proceedings, Pp.
31.1-31.10, (S. H. Anderson and D. B. Ankley, eds), Wyoming Fish and
Game Department, Laramie, Wyoming.

A
156

Department of Pathology

Bush, M., Montali, R. J., Phillips, L. G., Citano, S. B., Bock, G. and
Ruley, E. J. 1984. Anemia and renal failure in a Giant Panda
JAVMA, 185(11):1435-1437.

Bush, M., Montali, R. J., Reid, F. 1985. Clinical trials with killed
rabies vaccine in zoo mammals Symposium on Immunology of Zoo Animals,
Riverbanks Zoological Park, S.C. (Abstract).

Dein, F. J. 1984. Laboratory Manual of Avian Hematology. Association of
Avian Veterinarians.

Dein, F. J., Wilson, A., and Montali, R. J. 1984. Experimental infection
and diagnosis of avian tuberculosis Proceedings of AAZV, Louisville
(Abstract).

Montali, R. J., Allen, G. P., Bryans, J. T., and Bush, M. 1984. Equine
Herpesvirus Type-1 (EHV-1) in exotic equidae. Abstracts/proceedings,
American Association of Zoo Veterinarians, Louisville, pp. 100-109.

Montali, R. J., Bartz, C., Bush, M., and Grate, S. 1984/1985. Viral
diseases of nondomesticated carnivores. In: Viral Infections cf
Vertebrates, editor-in-chief, Horzinek, N. Elsevier Scientific
Publishing Company, Amsterdan.

Montali, R. J., R.A. Freeman, L. Collins, C. Wemmer, and M. Bush. 1985.
Pathology survey of captive cervids at the National Zoological Park.
Proceedings: 27th International Symposium for the Diseases of
Zoo Animals, Turin, pp. 17-28.

Montali, R. J., Phillips, L., and Appel, M. J. G. 1985. Canine distemper
in exotic carnivores: Update on vaccination procedures Symposium on
Immunology of Zoo and Wild Animals. Riverbanks Zoological Park, S.
C. (Abstract).

Montali, R. J., Reid, F., Sanders, G., Freeman, R., and Bush, M. 1984.

- Monitoring a raccoon rabies epizootic from Northern Virginia to
Washington, D.C. In: Proc of the North American Symposium on Rabies
in Wildlife. The John Hopkins University School of Hygiene and
Public Health and Centers for Disease Control, In Press.

Nichols, D., and Montali, R. J. 1985. Atherosclerosis in zoo birds.
Laboratory Investigations, 152:48A-49A (Abstract).

Shaw, M., Montali, R. J., and Bush, M. 1984. Streptococcus zooepidemicus
in small carnivorous mammals fed uncooked horse meat. Journal of Zoo
Animal medicine, 15:(4)161-164.

Wells, M. Y. and Montali, R. J. 1985. Pasteurellosis in Southern Potoroos
(Potorous apicalis). Journal of Zoo Animal Medicine, 16:21-25.

Department of Zoological Research

Ballou, J. D. "Strategies for maintaining genetic diversity in captive
populations through reproductive technology." Zoo Biology. 1984
3:3311-323.

Bekoff, M., T. J. Daniels and J. Gittleman. [Review] Life history
patterns and the comparative social ecology of carnivores. Annual
Review of Ecology and Systematics. 15(1984):191-232.

Blohowiak, C. and H. P. Van Krey. "Time of mating behavior by males from
lines of chickens selected for high and low mating frequency."
Poultry Sci. 1984 63:1677-1678.

Blohowiak, C. and P. B. Siegel. "Plumage phenotypes and mate preferences
in Japanese quail. 2. Sexual imprinting." Behav. Proc. 1984
8:255-275.

Boness, DL J. "Activity budget of male grey seals, Halichoerus grypus."
Mammal. 1984 65:291-297.

Boness, D. J., 0. T. Oftedal and K. A. Ono. "Maternal investment and pup
development in the California sea lion on San Nicolas: Some
preliminary results." Proc. Biennial Mugu Lagoon/San Nicolas Island.
Ecol. Res. Symp.: 3:151-169.

Crockett, C. M. "Emigration by female red howler monkeys and the case for
female competition." In Female Primates: Studies by Women
Primatologists, ed. Meredith Small, pp. 159-173. Alan Liss Inc., New
York, 1984.

Crockett, C. M. "Population studies of red howler monkeys (Alouatta
seniculus)." National Geographic Research. 1985. 1(2):264-273.

Crockett, C. M. and R. Sekulic. "Infanticide in red howler monkeys
(Alouatta seniculus)." In Infanticide: Comparative and Evolutionary
Perspectives, eds. G Hausfater, S. Blaffer Hrdy, pp. 173-191.
-Aldine Press, New York, 1984.

Cunningham, B. "Habitat preference in house crickets, Acheta domesticus."
Animal Keepers' Forum. 1984 11:342-344.

Davidar, P. "Feeding territories of the small sunbird (Nectarinia
minima)." J. Bombay Nat. Hist. Soc. 1984.

Davidar, P. "Ecological interactions between south Indian mistletoes and
their avian pollinators." J. Bombay Nat. Hist. Soe. 1984.

Dietz, James M. "Chrysocyon brachyurus. Mammalian Species No.
234." The American Society of Mammalogists. 1985 pp. 1-14.
rl
co

Dittus, Wolfgang P. J. A study of social evolution: The influence of
environment, behavior, and kinship on the demography of a opulation
of toque monkeys. National Geo. Soc. Research Report, (1984) pp.
171-182.

Dittus, Wolfgang P. J. "Toque macaque food calls: Semantic communicaton
concerning food distribution in the environment." Anim. Behav. 1984
32: 470-477.

Dittus, Wolfgang P. J. "The influence or cyclones on the dry evergreen
forest of Sri Lanka." Biotropica. 1985 17(1):1-14.

Dittus, Wolfgang P. J. "The influence of leaf-monkeys on their feeding
trees in a cyclone-disturbed environment." Biotropica. 1985
17(2): 100-106.

Frazier, J.. "Records of cetaceans from Kenya." African Journal of Ecology.
1984 21(2):115-118.

Frazier, J. "The Marine turtles situation in the East Pacific." CDC
Newsletter. 1984 2(1):7-9.

Frazier, J. "Analisis estadistico de las tortugas golfinas Lepidochelys
olivacea (Eschscholtz) de Oaxaca, Mexico." Ciencia Pesquera. 1984
4249-75.

Frazier, J. "Marine turtles in the Seychelles and adjacent territories."
In Biogeography and Ecology of the Seychelles Islands, ed. D. R.
Stoddart, pp. 417-468. Junk, The Hague, 1984.

Frazier, J. Contemporary problems in sea turtle biology and conservation -
The urgent need for regional cooperation. Bulletin of the Central
Marine Fisheries Research Institute, Special Publication, Cochin, 18
(1984) :77-91.

Frazier, J. "Tetracycline as an in vivo label in bones of green turtles,
Chelonia mydas (L.)." Herpetologica. 1985 41(2):228-234.
Frazier, J. "A review of in vivo labels of studies of age determination
and growth in amphibians and reptiles." Herpetologice. 1985
. 41(2):222-227.

Frazier, J. and J. F. Eisenberg. "A leatherback turtle feeding in the
wild." Journal of Herpetologica. 1984 17(1):81-82.

Frazier, J. and K. Kranz. "Predation on tortoises by antelopes: Angolan
legends regarding Kinixys belliana." Bulletin of the British
Herpetological Society. 1984 8:58-59.

Frazier, J. and S. Salas. "Tortugas marinas en Chile." Boletin del Museo
Nacional de Historia Natural de Chile. 1984. 39:63-73.

Frazier, J. and S Salas. "Tortugas Marinas en la Costa Peruana." Boletin
de Lima. 1984. 5(30):13.
Frazier, Jd. and S. Salas. "The status of marine turtles in the Egyptian
Red Sea." Biological Conservation. 1984. 30:41-67.

Frazier, J., K. Kranz, E. Glumak and J. Toah. [Review] Geographic
distribution: Pelusioa niger. SSAR Herp. Review, 15(3):77.

Gittleman, J. L. "Functions of communal care in mammals." In Evolution:
Essays in Honor of John Maynard Smith, eds. P. Greenwood, P. Harvey
and M. Slatkin, pp. 187-205. Cambridge Univ. Press, 1984.

Gradwohl, J. A. and R. Greenberg. "Search behavior of the checker-throated
antwren foraging in aerial leaf litter." Behav. Ecol. Sociobiol.
1984 15:281-285.

Grand, T. I. "Motion economy within the canopy: four strategies for
mobility." In Adaptations for Foraging in Non-Human Primates, eds. J.
G. H. Cant and P. S. Rodman, pp. 54-72. Columbia Univ. Press.

Greenberg, R. "The winter exploitation systems of bay-breasted and
chestnut-sided warblers in Panama." Univ. Calif. Publ. Zool. 1984
116:1-107.

Greenberg, R. "Neophobia in the foraging site selection of a neotroical
migrant bird: an experimental study. " Proc. Nat. Acad. Sci. (USA).
1984 81:3778-3780.

Greenberg, R. "Differences in feeding neophobia between two species of
tropical migrant warblers (Dendroica pennsylvanica and D. castanea)."
J. Comp. Psych. 1984 98:131-136.

Harvey, P. H. and K. Ralls. "Homage to the null weasel." In Evolution,
eds. P. J. Greenwood, M. Slatin and P. Harvey, pp. 155-171.
Cambridge Univ. Press, 1985.

Hodges, J. K., D. J. Bevan, M. Celma, J. P. Hearn, D. M. Jones, D. G.
Kleiman, J. A. Knight and H. D. Moore. "Aspects of the reproductive
endocrinology of the female giant panda (Ailuropoda melanoleuca) in
captivity with special reference to the detection of ovulation and
pregnancy." J. Zool., London. 1984 Vol. 203:253-267.

Kleiman, D. G "Review of J. H. Wolfheim, Primates of the World:
‘Distribution, Abundance and Conservation." American Scientist, Univ.
of Washington Press, Seattle. 1983 72:402.

Kleiman, D. G@ "Implications of monogamy for infant social development in
mammals." In Beyond the Dyad, ed. M. Lewis, pp. 91-108. Plenum
Press, New York, 1984.

Kleiman, D. G. "Conservation Strategies." Zoogoer. 1984 13(3):8.
Kleinman, D. G "The National Zoo's role in an international primate

conservation program." IUCN/SSC Primate Specialist Group Newsletter.
1984 4:45-H6,
160

Kleiman, D. G. [Review] Review of D. M. Taub (ed.), Primate Paternalism.
Van Nostrand Reinhold, New York, 441 pp. Science, 227 (No. 4684)
(1985) :288.

Kleiman, D. G@ "Criteria for the evaluation of zoo research projects."
Zoo Biology. 1985 4:93-98.

Kleiman, D.'G. and J. Seidensticker. [Review] Review of G. S. Schaller,
et. al., Giant Pandas of Wolong. Univ. of Chicago Press, 298 pp.
Seience, 228 (1985):4701.

Kleiman, D. G., B. Beck and R. Hoage. "Golden lion tamarins successfully
released." AAZPA Newsletter. 1985 26:April.

Kohn, F., M. Roberts, A. Keppel, E. Maliniak and M. Deal. "Management and
husbandry of the western tarsier, Tarsius bancanus, at the National
Zoological Park." Animal Keepers Forum. 1984 11:468-478.

Koontz, F. W. "Sternal gland scent communication in the Rufous elephant-
shrew, Elephantus rufescens, with additional observations on behavior
and reproduction in captivity." [PhD. Thesis], Univ. of Maryland,
College Park. 1984.

Kranz, K. R. “Pair bonding and scent marking behavior in captive dik-dik,
Madoqua kirki (Artiodactyla: Bovidae)." [M.S. Thesis], Geo. Mason
Univ., 1984.

Lumpkin, S. [Review] Review of ‘Animal Behaviour, Ecology and Evolution'
by C. J. Barnard. Quart. Rev. Biol., 59 (1984):99-100.

Lumpkin, S. and K. R. Kranz. "Cephalophus sylvicultor." Mammalian Species.
American Society of Mammalogists. 1984 225:1-17.

Macdonald, D. W., K. Kranz and K. T. Aplin. "Behavioral, anatomical and
chemical aspects of olfactory communication amongst capybaras
(Hydrochoerus hydrochaeris), (Rodentia, Hystricomorpha). J. Zool.
1984 202:341-360.

McDade, L. and P. Davidar. "Determinants of fruit and seed set in Pavyonia
lasypetala." Oecologia. 1984.

Montali, R., M. Roberts, R. Freeman and M. Bush. "Pathology of red pandas,
Ailurus fulgens." In One Medicine, eds. 0. Ryder, and M. Byrd, pp.
128-140. Springer-Verlag, 1984.

O'Brien, S., D. Goldman, J. Knight, H. Moore, D. Wildt, M. Bush, R. Montali
and D. G. Kleiman. "Giant panda paternity." Science. 1984
223:1127-1128.

Oftedal, O. T. "Body size and reproductive strategy as correlates of milk
energy yield in lactating mammals." Acta Zoologica Fennica. 1984
171: 183-186.

Wy)
Oftedal, O. T. "Lactation in the dog: Milk composition and intake by
puppies." J. of Nutrition. 1984 113:2096-2106.

Oftedal, O. T. "Milk composition, milk yield and energy output at peak
lactation. A comparative review." In Physiological Strategies of
Lactation, eds. M. Peaker, R. G. Bernon and C. H. Knight, pp. 33-85.
Academic Press, New York, 1984.

Oftedal, 0. T. and D. J. Boness. "Fish quality: The net result." Proc.
© Amer. Assoc. Zoo. Vet. 1984 47-51.

Oftedal, O. and D. J. Boness. "Considerations in the use of fish as food."
In Proceedings of the 3rd Annual Dr. School Conf. on Nutrition of
Captive Wild Animals. Lincoln Park Zoological Gardens, Chicago, IL,
1984.

Ralls, K. "Genetic management of zoo animals." Biologist. 1984 31:99-
102.

Ralls, K. [Review] The Biology and Management of an Extinct Species: Pere
David's Deer by B. J. Beck and C. Wemmer. Quart. Review Biol., 59
(1984) :78-79.

Ralls, K. and K. Kranz. "Duikers." In Encyclopedia of Mammals, ed. D.
Macdonald, pp. 556-559. Facts on File Pubs., New York, 1984.

Ralls, K. and Paul H. Harvey. "Geographic variation in size and sexual
dimorphism of North American weasels." Biological Journal of the
Linnean Society. 1985 25:119-167.

Ralls, K., H. K. Buechner, R. Kiltie and K. Kranz. "Behavior and

reproduction of captive bongo, Tragelaphus eurycerus." Zoo. Garten
N.F., 1985 55:41-67.

Ralls, K., K. Kranz and B. Lundrigan. "Letter to the Editor: Mother-young
behaviour in ungulates." Applied Animal Behaviour Science, 1985
14: 201-203.

Ralls, K., P. Fiorelli and S. Gish. "Vocalizations and vocal mimicry in
captive harbor seals, Phoca vitulina.” Can. J. Zool. 1985 63(5):
- 1050-1056. :

Roberts, M. and J. Gittleman. "Ailurus fulgens." Mammalian Species No.
222. Amer. Soc. of Mammalogists. 1984 222:1-8.

Roberts, M., E. Maliniak and M. Deal. "The reproductive biology of the
rock cavy, Kerodon rupestris, in captivity: A study of reproductive
adaptation in a trophic specialist." Mammalia. 1984 48:253-266.

Roberts, M., F. Kohn, A. Keppel, E. Maliniak and M. Deal. "Management and
husbandry of the western tarsier, Tarsius Bancanus, at the National
Zoological Park." Proc. AAZPA Regional Meetings. 1984 1984:588-
599.

I6I
Ross, W. D., T. I. Grand, G R. Marshall and A. D. Martin. "On human and
animal geometry. VII Common. & Int'l Conf. of Sport, Phys. Ed.,
Recreation & Dance. The Kinesiological Sciences." Eds., M. Howell
and B. Wilson, 7.

Shy, E. "Sympatry and allopatry of song in North American tanagers."
Behav. Ecol. Sociobiol. 1984 15:189-195.

Shy, E. "The structure of song and its geographic variation in North
American tanagers (Thraupinae: Piranga)." Oecologia. 1984 63:281-
285.

Shy, E. "The structure of song and its geographical variation in the
scarlet tanager (Piranga olivacae)." Am. Midl. Nat. 1984 112:119-
130.

Sieber, 0. J. "Vocal communication in raccoons, (Procyon lotor)."
Behaviour. 1984 90:80-113.

Sieber, 0. J. "Individual recognition of parental calls by bank swallow
chicks (Riparia riparia)." Animal Behaviour. 1985 33:107-116.

Thompson, S. D. "Subspecific differences in metabolism, thermoregulation,
and torpor in the western harvest mouse Reithrodontomys megalotis."
Physiol. Zool. 1985 58(4):430-444.

Thompson, S. D. "Bipedal hopping and seed-dispersion selection by
heteromyid rodents: the role of locomotion energetics." Ecology.
1985 66:220-229.

Zullinger, E. M., R. E. Ricklefs, K. H. Redford and G. M. Mace. "Fitting
Sigmoidal equations to mammalian growth curves." J. Mammal. 1984
75:607-636.
SMITHSONIAN ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY

Abreu, V. J.; Dalgarno, A.; Yee, J. H.; Chakrabarti, S.; and Solomon, S. E. “The O1 989-ATropical
Nightglow.” Geophysical Research Letters 11(1984):569.

Abreu, V. J.; Skinner, W. R.; Hayes, P. B.; and Yee, J.-H. “Optical Effects of Spacecraft-
Environment Interactions: Spectrometric Observations by the DE-B Satellite.” Spacecraft and
Rockets 22(1985):177.

Armstrong, J. T.; Ho, P. T. P.; and Barrett, A. H. “VLA Observations of Smooth, Rapidly Rotating
NHzj in the SgrA ‘15 kms} Cloud.” Astrophysical Journal 288(1985):159.

Asaro, C. and Dalgarno, A. “Bound Vibrational Levels of the Two Lowest 'Z* States of LiF.” Chemical
Physics Letters 118(1985): 64°

Avrett, E. H. “Recent Thermal Models of the Chromosphere.” In Chromosphertc Diagnostics and
Modeling, ed. B. W. Lites, p. 67. Sunspot, New Mexico: National Solar Observatory, 1985.

Bailyn, C.; Rosner, R.; and Tsinganos, K. “On the Solution Topologies of Polytropic Winds.”
Astrophysical Journal 296(1985):696.

Baliunas, S. L. “Outer Atmospheres of Cool Stars Observed with IUE.” In Future of Ultraviolet
Astronomy Based on Siz Years of IVE Research, eds. J. M. Mead, R. D. Chapman and Y. Kondo,
p. 64. Baltimore, Maryland: NASA Conference Publication 2349, 1984.

Baliunas, S. L., and Guinan, E. F. “The Old Galactic Cluster NGC 188 and the Origin of the W Ursae
Nijons type Binaries.” utronhyeccal Journal 294(1985):294.

Baliunas, S. L.; Horne, J. H.; Porter, A.; Duncan, D.; Frazer, J.; Lanning, H.; Misch, A.; Waele Jes
Noyes, R.; Gerace, D.; arid Vachon: VAY AS eMme: Series Makstrements of Chreneestoc Ca I
H and K Brnission in Cool Stars and the Search for Differential Rotation.” Astrophysical Journal
294(1985):310.

Band, D. L., and Grindlay, J. E. “On the Origin of X-ray Variability of SS433.” Astrophysical Journal
285(1984):702.

Barnes, A.; Goldstein, M.; Hollweg, J.; Mariska, J.; Matthaeus, W.; Smith, C.; Smiths, E.; Stein, R.;
Withbroe, G.; and Woo, R. “MHD Waves and Turbulence in the Sun and Interplanetary Medium.”
In Solar Terrestrial Physics: Present and Future, eds. D. M Butler and K. Papadopoulos, p. 4-3.
College Park, Maryland: NASA Reference Publication 1120, 1984.

Bartel, N. “Angular Diameter Determinations of Radio Supernovae and the Distance Scale.” In
Proceedings, Supernova as Distance Indicators, Lecture Notes in Physics, No. 224, ed. N. Bartel, p.
107. Berlin: Springer-Verlag, 1985.

Bartel, N.; Ratner, M. L.; Shapiro, I. I.; Cappallo, R. J.; Rogers, A. E. E.; and Whitney, A. R. “Pulsar
Astrometry via VLBI.” Astronomical Journal 90(1985):318.

Berger, M., and Field, G. B. “The Topological Properties of Magnetic Helicity.” Journal of Fluid
Mechanics 147(1984):133.

Biermann, P.; Schmidt, G. D.; Liebert, J.; Stockman, H. S.; Tapia, S.; Kuhr, H.; Strittmatter, P. A.;
West, S.; and Lamb, D. Q. “The New Eclipsing Magnetic Binary System E1112+182.” Astrophysical
Journal 293(1985):303.

Biermann, P.; Strom, R.; and Bartel, N. “NGC 6212: An Elliptical Galaxy with a Highly Active
Nucleus.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 147(1985):L27.

Birkinshaw, M., and Davies, R. L. “The Orientations of the Rotation Axes of Elliptical Galaxies. I.
Radio Morphologies of Bright Elliptical Galaxies.” Astrophysical Journal 291(1985):32.

Black, J. H., and Smith, P. L. “Interstellar Oz, I: Abundance, Excitation, and Prospects for Detection
of ©0180 at Radio Frequencies.” Astrophysical Journal 277(1984):562.

Blair, W. P.; Fesen, R. A.; and Kirshner, R. P. “New Views of the Cygnus Loop.” Mercury 13(1984):16.

Blair, W. P., and Kirshner, R. P. “Improved Optical Spectrophotometry of Supernova Remnants in
M33.” Astrophysical Journal 289(1985):582.

Blair, W. P.; Kirshner, R. P.; and Winkler, P. F. “A Powerful Young Supernova Remnant in Another
Galaxy.” Mercury 14(1985):80.

Bodo, G.; Ferrari, A.; Massagila, S.; Kalkofen, W.; and Rosner, R. “Equilibrium Model of Thin Magnetic
Flux Tubes.” Proceedings of a Course and Workshop on Plasma Astrophysics (Varenna, Italy), p
277. European Space Agency SP-207, 1984.

16:
164

Bodo, G.; Ferrari, A.; Massaglia, S.; Rosner, R.; and Vaiana, G. S. “MHD Thermal Instabilities in Cool
Inhomogeneous Atmospheres.” Astrophysical Journal 291(1985):798.

Bonin, K. D.; MclIlrath, T. J.; and Yoshino, K. “High-Resolution Laser and Classical Spectroscopy of
Xenon Autoionization.” Journal of the Optical Society of America A 2(1985):1275.

Bothun, G.; Aaronson, M.; Schommer, R.; Mould, J.; Huchra, J.; and Sullivan III, W. “A Catalog
of Radio, Optical and Infrared Observations of Spiral Galaxies in Clusters.” Astrophysical Journal
Supplements 57(1985):423.

Brainerd, J. J., and Lamb, D. Q. “Orientations of AM Her Stars from THeir Polarization Properties:
The Case of the Missing AM Her Stars.” In Cataclysmic Variables and Low Mass X-Ray Binartes,
eds. D. Q. Lamb and J. Patterson, p. 247. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company,
1984.

Cameron, A. G. W. “Star Formation and Extinct Radioactivities.” Icarus 60(1984):416.

. “Formation of the Prelunar Accretion Disk.” Icarus 62(1985):319.

Cameron, A. G. W.; Cowan, J. J.; and Truran, J. W. “Neutron Source Requirements for the Helium R-
Process.” In Proceedings of the Workshop on Challenges and New Developments in Nucleosynthesis,
eds. W. D. Arnett and J. W. Truran, p. 190. Chicago, Hlinois: University of Chicago Press, 1985.

Cantu, A. M.; Parkinson, W. H.; Grisendi, T.; and Tagliaferri, G. “Absorption Spectrum of Atomic
Chlorine: 3p° ? PS 2-1/2 — 3p4 ns,nd.” Physica Scripta 31(1985):579.

Carney, B. W., and Latham, D. W. “A New Halo Survey.” In [.A.U. Colloquium No. 88, Stellar Radial
Velocities, eds. A. G. D. Philip and D. W. Latham, p. 89. Schenectady, New York: L. Davis Press,
1985.

Carney, B. W.; Latham, D. W.; and Straizys, V. “Kinematics of Halo Red Giants.” In [.A.U. Colloquium
No. 88, Stellar Radial Velocities, eds. A. G. D. Philip and D. W. Latham, p. 177. Schenectady,
New York: L. Davis Press, 1985.

Cawley, M. F., and Weekes, T. C. “Gamma Ray Absorption and the Distance to Cygnus X-3.” Astronomy
and Astrophysics 133(1984):80.

Cawley, M. F.; Fegan, D. J.; Gibbs, K.; Gorham, P. W.; Hillas, A. M.; Lamb, R. C.; Liebing, D. F.;
Mackeown, P. K.; Porter, N. A.; Stenger, V. J.; and Weekes, T. C. “Application of Imaging to
Atmospheric Cherenkov Techniques.” Proceedings of the 19th International Cosmic Ray Conference
(La Jolla, USA) 3(1985):453.

Cawley, M. F.; Fegan, D. J.; Gibbs, K. G.; Gorham, P. W.; Kenny, S.; Lamb, R. C.; Liebing, D. F.;
Porter, N. A.; Stenger, V. J.; and Weekes, T. C. “Hercules X-1: Pulsed Gamma Rays Detected above
150 GeV.” Proceedings of the 19th International Cosmic Ray Conference (La Jolla, USA) 1(1985):119.

Cawley, M. F.; Fegan, D. J.; Gibbs, K.; Gorham, P. W.; Lamb, R. C.; Liebing, D. F.; Mackeown, P.
K.; Porter, N. A.; Stenger, V. J.; and Weekes, T. C. “Observations of the Crab Nebula at Energies
>4.1011.” Proceedings of the 19th International Cosmic Ray Conference (La Jolla, USA) 1(1985):131.

Cawley, M. F.; Fegan, D. J.; Gibbs, K.; Gorham, P. W.; Lamb, R. C.; Liebing, D. F.; Mackeown, P.
K.; Porter, N. A.; Stenger, V. J.; and Weekes, T. C. “Search for Gamma Rays above 400 GeV from
Geminga.” Proceedings of the 19th International Cosmic Ray Conference (La Jolla, USA) 1(1985):173.

Cawley, M. F.; Fegan, D. J.; Gibbs, K.; Gorham, P. W.; Lamb, R. C.; Liebing, D. F.; Porter, N. A.;
Stenger, V. J.; and Weekes, T. C. “Search for Gamma Rays from M31 and Other Extragalactic
Objects.” Proceedings of the 19th International Cosmic Ray Conference (La Jolla, USA) 1(1985):264.

Cawley, M. F.; Fegan, D. J.; Gibbs, K.; Gorham, P. W.; Lamb, R. C.; Liebing, D. F.; Porter, N. A.;
Stenger, V. J.; Weekes, T. C.; and Williams, R. J. “Variability in the High Energy Gamma-Ray
Emission from Cygnus X-3 over a Two-Year Period (1983-1984) at E > 4 x10? eV.” Proceedings of
the 19th International Cosmic Ray Conference (La Jolla, USA) 1(1985):87.

Chaffee, F. H., Jr.; Foltz, C. B.; Roser, H.-J.; Weymann, R. J.; and Latham, D. W. “High-Resolution
Spectroscopy of Selected Absorption Lines Toward Quasi-Stellar Objects. II. The Metal-to-Hydrogen
Ratio in a ‘Metal-Free’ Cloud Toward $5 0015+81.” Astrophysical Journal 292(1985):362.

Chance, K. V., and Traub, W. A. “An Upper Limit for Stratospheric Hydrogen Peroxide.” Journal of
Geophysical Research 89(1984):11655.

Cheung, A. S.-C.; Yoshino, K.; Parkinson, W. H.; and Freeman, D. E. “Herzberg Continuum Cross
Section of Oxygen in the Wavelength Region 193.5-204.0 nm and Band Oscillator Strengths of the
(0,0) an (1,0) Schumann-Runge Bands.” Canadian Journal of Physics 62(1984):1752.
Clark, T. A.; Corey, B. E.; Davis, J. L.; Elgered, G.; Herring, T. A.; Hinteregger, H. F.; Knight, C.
A.; Levine, J. L.; Lunqvist, G.; Ma, C.; Nesman, E. F.; Phillips, R. B.; Rogers, A. E. E.; Ronnang,
B. O.; Ryan, J. W.; Schupler, B. R.; Shaffer, D. B.; Shapiro, I. I; Vandenberg, N. R.; Webber, J.
C.; and Whitney, A. R. “Precision Geodesy Using the Mark III Very-Long-Baseline Interferometer
System.” Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers Geoscience and Report Sensing Transactions
GE-23(1985):438.

Cooper, D. L.; Kirby K.; and Dalgarno, A. “Radiative Charge Transfer and Radiative Association of
Helium Ions with Neon Atoms.” Canadian Journal of Physics 62(12)(1984):1622.

Cooper, D. L.; Yee, J. H.; and Dalgarno, A. “Energy Transfer in en- Hydrogen Collisions.” Planetary
and Space Science, 32(1984):82.

Cotton, W. D.; Geldzahler, B. J.; Marcaide, J. M.; Shapiro, I. I.; Sanroma, M.; and Ruis, A. “VLBI
Observations of the Polarized Radio Emission from the Quasar 3C 454.3.” Astrophysical Journal
286(1984):503.

Cowan, J. J.; Cameron, A. G. W.; and Truran, J. W. “R-Process Nucleosynthesis in Dynamic Helium-
Burning Environments.” Astrophysical Journal 294(1985):656.

Croswell, K., and Dalgarno A. “The Abundance of Interstellar OD.” Astrophysics Journal
289(1985):618.

da Costa, L. N.; Nunes, M. A.; and Geary, J. “The Observatorio Nacional Intensified Photon-Counting
Reticon Detector.” Publicacoes do Observatorio Nactonal No.5 (1985).

Dainty, J. C.; Pipher, J. L.; Lacasse, M. G.; and Ridgway, S. T. “Spatially Resolved Infrared Observations
of the Red Rectangle.” Astrophysical Journal 293(1985):530.

Dalgarno, A., and Lepp, S. “Deuterium Fractionation Mechanisms in Interstellar Clouds.” Astrophysical
Journal Letters 287(1984):L47.

Dickel, H. R.; Ho, P. T. P.; and Wright, M. C. H. “The Molecular Core Associated with DR21.”
Astrophysical Journal 286(1984):503.

Duncan, D. K.; Baliunas, S. L.; Noyes, R. W.; Vaughan, A. H.; Frazer, J.; and Lanning, H.
“Chromospheric Emission and Rotation of the Hyades Lower Main Sequence.” Publications of the
Astronomical Society of the Pacific 96(1984):707.

Dupree, A. K.; Avrett, E. H.; Hartmann, L.; and Smith, G. “Ultraviolet and Optical Observations of
Metal Deficient Red Giants and Chromospheric Models.” In Fourth European IUE Conference, p.
191. European Space Agency SP-218, 1984.

Dupree, A. K.; Sonneborn, G.; Baliunas, S. L.; Giunan, E.F.; Hartmann, L.; and Hayes, D. “Betelgeuse
at Maximum Luminosity.” In Future of Ultraviolet Astronomy Based on Siz Years of IVE Research,
eds. J. M. Mead, R. D. Chapman, and Y. Kondo, p. 462. Baltimore, Maryland: NASA Conference
Publication 2349, 1984.

Elvis, M. “Einstein IPC Spectra of Quasars: First Results.” In Compact Galactic and Eztragalactic
X-ray Sources, eds. Y. Tananka and W. H. G. Lewin, p. 291. Tokyo, Japan: Institute for Space and
Astronautical Science, 1985. °

Elvis, M., and Lawrence, A. “X-ray Spectra of Active Galaxies and Quasars.” In Astrophysics of Active
Galazies and Quast-Stellar Objects, ed. J. S. Miller, p. 289. University Science Books, 1985.

Elvis, M.; Wilkes, B.; and Tananbaum, H. “The Diversity of Soft X-ray Spectra in Quasars.”
Astrophysical Journal 292(1985):357.

Fabbiano, G., and Trinchieri, G. “A Statistical Analysis of the Einstein Normal Galaxy Sample: I. Spiral
and Irregular Galaxies.” Astrophysical Journal 296(1985):430.

Fabricant, D.; Rybicki, G. B.; and Gorenstein, P. “X-Ray Measurements of the Nonspherical Mass
Distribution in the Cluster of Galaxies A2256.” Astrophysical Journal 286(1984):186.

Falco, E. E.; Gorenstein, M. V.; and Shapiro, I. I. “On Model-Dependent Bounds on Ho
from Gravitational Images: Applications to Q0957+561A,B.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters)
289(1985):L1.

Farmer, C. B.; Carli, B.; Bonetti, A.; Carlotti, M.; Dinelli, B. M.; Fast, H.; Louisnard, N.; Alamichel, C.;
Mankin, W.; Coffey, M.; Nolt, I. G.; Murcray, D. G.; Goldman, A.; Stokes, G.; Johnson, D.; Traub,
W.; Chance, K.; Zander, R.; Delbouille, L.; and Roland, G. “Balloon Intercomparison Campaign:
Results of Remote Sensing Measurements of HCl.” In Proceedings of Quadrennial Ozone Symposium
eds. C.S. Zerefos and A. Ghazi. Hingham, Massachusetts: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1984.

165
Faucherre, M; Lacasse, M. G.; Nisenson, P.; Reasenberg, R. D.; Shao, M.; Stachnik, R. V.; and Traub,
W. A. “A 50-Meter Michelson Stellar Interferometer on a Space Platform.” In Proceedings of the
Workshop on High Angular Resolution Optical Interferometry from Space, eds. P. B. Boyce and R.
D. Reasenberg, Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 16(1984):793.

Faucherre, M.; Stachnik, R.; and Aram, S. “Numerical Experiments in Imaging Reconstruction.”
In Proceedings of a Colloquium, Kilometric Optical Arrays in Space (Cargese, Corsica), p. 121.
Noordwijk, The Netherlands: ESTEK, 1985.

Fazio, G. G.; Bleeker, J. A. M.; deKorte, P. A. J.; and Caldwell, J. J. (Editors) Astronomy from Space,
vol. 5, Advances in Space Research. Oxford, England: Pergamon Press, 1985.

Feretti, L; Gioia, I. M.; Giovannini, G.; Gregorini, L.; and Padrielli, L. “High Resolution Radio and
X-ray Observations of Abell 115.” Astronomy and Astrophysics 139(1984):50.

Ferrari, A.; Trussoni, E.; Rosner, R.; and Tsinganos, K. “On Wind-Type Flows in Astrophysical Jets.
I, The Initial Relativistic Acceleration.” Astrophysical Journal 294(1985):397.

Fesen, R. A.; Blair, W. P.; and Kirshner, R. G. “Optical Emission- Line Properties of Evolved Galactic
Supernova Remnants.” Astrophysical Journal 292(1985):29.

Field, G. B., and Chaisson, E. The Invisible Universe. Cambridge, Massachusetts: Birkhauser, 1984.

Fireman, E. L. “Radioactive Dating of Byrd Core and Allan Hills Ice.” Antarctic Journal of the United
States 18(5)(1984):111.

Fireman, E. L.; Cleveland, B. T.; Davis, R.; and Rowley, J. K. “Cosmic-Ray Depth Studies at the
Homestake Mine with °°K°7 Ar Detectors.” In Proceedings of the American Institute of Physics, vol.
126, p. 22. New York: American Institute of Physics, 1984.

Fireman, E. L.; Jull, A. T. J.; Donahue, D. J.; and Zabel, T. H. “Carbon-14 Ages of Antarctic
Meteorites with Accelerator and Small-Volume Counting Techniques.” Journal of Geophysical
Research Supplement 89(1984): 329.

Forman, W.; Jones, C.; and DeFaccio, M. “X-ray Survey of the Virgo Cluster.” In ESO Workshop on
the Virgo Cluster, eds. D. G. Richter and B. Binggeli, p. 323. European Southern Observatory
Publication, 1985.

Forman, W.; Jones, C.; and Tucker, W. “Hot Gaseous Coronae Around Early-Type Galaxies.” The
Astrophysical Journal 293(1985):102.

Franklin, F. A., and Aksnes, K. “Predictions of Mutual Phenomena of the Galilean Satellites.” Icarus
60(1984):180.

. “Upcoming Mutual Events of Jupiter’s Moons.” Sky and Telescope 69(1985):116.

Freeman, D. E.; Yoshino, K.; Esmond, J. R.; and Parkinson, W. H. “High Resolution Absorption Cross
Section Measurements of SO, at 213 K in the Wavelength Region 172-240 nm.” Planetary and Space
Science 32(1984):1125.

. “Absolute Absorption Cross Section Measurements of Ozone.” In Atmospheric Ozone, eds. C.S.
Zerefos and A. Ghazi, p. 622. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1985.

Garay, G.; Reid, M. J.; and Moran, J. M. “VLA Observations of Recombination Lines of Compact HII
Regions Associated with OH Maser Emission.” Astrophysical Journal 289(1985):681.

Geller, M. J.; de Lapparent, V.; and Kurtz, M. J. ‘The Shane- Wirtanen Counts.” Astrophysical Journal
(Letters) 287(1984): L55.

Giampapa, M. S., and Rosner, R. “The Appearance of Magnetic Flux on the Surfaces of the Early
Main-Sequence F Stars.” The Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 286(1984):L19.

Gingerich, O. “Astronomical Institutions—Introduction.” In The General History of Astronomy, ed. O.
Gingerich, p. 111. Cambridge, England: Cambridge University Press, 1984.

. “The 1784 Autobiography of William Herschel.” Harvard Library Bulletin 32(1984):73.

. “The Phases of Venus in 1610.” Journal for the History of Astronomy 15(1984):209.

. “Reflections on a Seminar on the Recording and Preservation of Astronomical Manuscripts.”

Bollettino del Centro Internazionale Beltrame di Storia dello Spazio e del Tempo (Numbers 3-

4)(1984):79.

. “The International Copernicus Census and the New Paduan Copies of the De Revolutionibus.”

Bollettino del Centro Internazionale Beltrame di Storia dello Spazio e del Tempo (Numbers 3-

4)(1984):145.

. “The Discovery of the Spiral Arms of the Milky Way.” In The Proceedings of I.A.U. Symposium

No. 106, The Milky Way, eds. H. Van Woerden, R. J. Allen, and W. B. Burton, p. 59. Dordrecht,

Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1985.

. “Did Copernicus Owe a Debt to Aristarchus?” Journal for the History of Astronomy 16(1985):36.

. *The Shapley-Curtis Debate.” In Universe, ed. W. J. Kaufman III, p. 492. New York: W. H.

Freeman and Co., 1985.

“Introduction.” In The Astronomical Scrapbook: Skywatchers, Pioneers, and Seekers in

Astronomy, by J. Ashbrook, p. v. Cambridge, Massachusetts: Sky Publishing Corporation, 1984.

. “The Accuracy of Ephemerides, 1500-1800.” Vistas in Astronomy 28(1985):339.

. “The Astronomy of Alfonso the Wise.” Sky and Telescope 69(1985):206.

. “Ptolemaic Astronomy for an Emperor’s Eyes.” Sky and Telescope 69(1985):406.

. “Robert Trumpler and the Dustiness of Space.” Sky and Telescope 70(1985):213.

Gingerich, O., and Welther, B. “Some Puzzles of Ptolemy’s Star Catalogue.” Sky and Telescope
67(1984):421. ; :

Gioia, I. M. “From the Universe at Large to the Stars Near Us: An X-ray Survey at Faint Fluxes.” In
X-ray Astronomy 784, eds. M. Oda and R. Giacconi, p. 349. Tokyo, Japan: Institute for Science
and Astronautical Science, 1985.

Gioia, I. M.; Maccacaro, T.; Maccagni, D.; and Stocke, J. “On the Surface Density of X-ray Selected
BL Lac Objects.” In Proceedings of the Garching Meeting on X-ray and UV Emission from Active
Galactic Nuclei, eds. W. Brinkmann and J. Trumper, MPE Report 184(1984):135.

Goldberg, Z. M., and Reasenberg, R. D. “Venus Gravity West of Beta Regio.” Icarus 62(1985):129.

Gorenstein, M. V.; Shapiro, I. I.; Rogers, A. E. E.; Cohen, N. L.; Corey, B. E.; Porcas, R. W.; Falco, E.
E.; Bonometti, R. J.; Preston, R. A.; Rius, A.; and Whitney, A. R. “The Milliarcsecond Images of
Q0957+561.” Astrophysical Journal 287(1984):538.

Grindlay, J. E. “Studies of Galactic X-ray Sources.” In Proceedings of the Workshop on Non-Thermal
and Very High Temperature Phenomena in X-ray Astronomy, eds. G. C. Perola and L. Salvati, p.
17. Rome, Italy: Istituto Astronomico (1985).

“X-ray Sources as Dynamical Tracers in Globular Clusters.” In Dynamics of Star Clusters,
Proceedings of IAU Symposium 113, eds. J. Goodman and P. Hutt, p. 89. Dordrecht, Holland: D.
Reidel Publishing Company, 1985.

Grindlay, J. E., and Hertz, P. “Galactic Bulge X-ray Burst Sources from Disrupted Globular Clusters?”
In Cataclysmic Variables and Low Mass X-ray Binaries, eds. D. R. Lamb and J. Patterson, p. 79.
Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1985.

Grossi, M. D., and Tacconi, G. “Editorial for Special Issue on Beam-Forming.” IEEE Journal of Oceanic
Engineering OE-10(3) (1985):197.

Gullahorn, G. E.; Fuligni, F.; and Grossi, M. D. “Gravity Gradiometry from the Tethered Satellite
System” IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing GH-23(1985):531.

Guth, A. H. “The Inflationary Universe.” In Shelter Island II (Proceedings), eds. R. Jackiw, N. Khuri,
S. Weinberg, and E. Witten, p. 171. Cambridge, Massachusetts: The MIT Press, 1985.

Gwinn, C. R.; Taylor, J. H.; Weisberg, J. M.; and Rawley, L. A. “The Parallax of PSR 0950+08 and the
Local Interstellar Medium.” In J.A.U. Colloquium 81, The Local Interstellar Medium, eds. Y. Kondo,
F. C. Bruhweiler, and B. D. Savage, p. 281. Baltimore, Maryland: NASA Conference Publication
2345, 1984.

Habbal, S. R., and Rosner, R. “Temporal Evolution of the Solar Wind and the Formation of a Standing
Shock.” Journal of Geophysical Research 90(1985):199.

Harmon, J. K.; Campbell, D. B.; Head, J. W.; Bindschadler, D. L.; and Shapiro, I. I. “Mercury Radar
Altimetry: A Preliminary Analysis.” Lunar and Planetary Science XV(1984):343.

Harnden, F. R., Jr. “X-rays from Non-Accreting Pulsars.” In Galactic and Extragalactic Compact X-ray
Sources, (Proceedings of the Japan-U.S. Seminar), eds. Y. Tanaka and W. H. G. Lewin, p. 239.
Tokyo, Japan: Institute for Space and Astronautical Science, 1985.

Harris, D. E., and Johnson, H. M. “High Resolution X-ray Observations of Nearby Binary Systems:
Flaring and Evidence for Unseen Companions.” Astrophysical Journal 294(1985):649.

167
Hartmann, L. “Winds from Pre-Main Sequence Stars.” In Comments on Astrophysics X(1984):97.

Hartmann, L.; Huchra, J. P.; and Geller, M. J. “How to Find Galaxies at High Redshift.” Astrophysical
Journal 287(1984):487.

Hartmann, L.; Jordan, C.; Brown, A.; and Dupree, A. K. “On the Outer Atmospheres of Hybrid Stars.”
Astrophysical Journal 296 (1985):576.

Haschick, A. D., and Ho, P. T. P. “Formation of OB Clusters: CO, NH3, and H2O Observations of the
Distant HII Region Complex in $128.” Astrophysical Journal 292(1985):200.

Hazen-Liller, M. “Photoelectric Sequences Near Nine Galactic Globular Clusters.” Astronomical Journal
89(1984):1551.

. “The Variable Stars in the Field of the Globular Cluster NGC 6569.” Astronomical Journal
90(1985):1807. ;

Herbold, G.; Ulmschneider, P.; Spruit, H. C.; and Rosner, R. “Propagation of Nonlinear
Radiatively-Damped Longitudinal Waves Along Magnetic Flux Tubes.” Astronomy and Astrophysics
145(1985):157.

Ho, P. T. P.; Jackson, J. M.; Barrett, A. H.; and Armstrong, J. T. “Interactions Between the Continuum
Sources in the Galactic Center and Their Immediate Molecular Environment.” Astrophysical Journal
288(1985):575.

Huchra, J. “On Contemporary Observational Cosmology: When Did It All Begin?” In Studies in Jewish
Philosophy, IV, Academy for Jewish Philosophy, 1984.

. “The Virgo Cluster Redshift Survey.” In The Virgo Cluster, eds. O. Richter and B. Binggeli,
p. 181. Garching, Germany: European Southern Observatory, 1985.

Huchra, J.; Gorenstein, M.; Kent, S.; Shapiro, I. I.; Smith, G.; Horine, E.; and Perley, R. *2237+0305:
A New and Unusual Gravitational Lens.” Astronomical Journal 90(1985):691.

Hughes, J. P., and Helfand, D. J. “Self-Consistent Models for the X-ray Emission from Supernova
Remnants: Application to Kepler’s SNR.” The Astrophysical Journal 291(1985):544.

Hummer, D. G., and Rybicki, G. B. “The Sobolev Approximation for Line Formation with Continuous
Opacity.” Astrophysical Journal 293(1985):258.

Johnson, B. C.; Smith, P. L.; and Knight, R. D. “The Radiative Lifetime of the °S3 Metastable Level
of 07+.” Astrophysical Journal 281(1984):477.

Jones, C., and Forman, W. “Hot Gas in Early Type Galaxies.” In X-ray Astronomy ’84, eds. M. Oda
and R. Giacconi, p. 355. Tokyo, Japan: Institute for Space and Astronautical Science, 1985.

Kalkofen, W. “Ayres’ Bifurcated Solar Model.” In Chromospheric Diagnostics and Modelling, ed. B. W.
Lites, p. 272. Sunsport, New Mexico: National Solar Observatory, 1985.

. “IAU Report on Numerical Methods in Radiative Transfer.” In Reports on Astronomy, p. 504.

Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1985.

“Numerical Methods in Radiative Transfer.” In Progress in Stellar Spectral Line Formation

Theory, eds. J. E. Beckman and L. Crivellari, p. 153. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing

Company, 1985.

. “Partial versus Complete Linearization.” In Progress in Stellar Spectral Line Formation, eds.
J. E. Beckman and L. Crivellari, p. 169. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1985.

Kalkofen, W.; Ulmschneider, P.; and Schmitz, F. “Apparent Solar Temperature Enhancement Due to
Large Amplitude Waves.” Astrophysical Journal 287(1984):952.

Kalata, K. “A General Purpose Computer Configurable Television Area Detector for X-ray Diffraction
Applications.” Methods in Enzymology 114(1985):486.

Kalata, K.; Murray, S. S.; and Chappell, J. H. “Configuration and Performance of a Television X-ray
Detector System for Imaging and Diffraction Applications.” Advances in Electronic Electron Physics
64B(1985):509.

Kallne, E.; Kallne, J.; Dalgarno, A.; Marmar, E. S.; Rice, J. E.; and Pradhan, A. K. “Observations of
Recombination Population of n=2 Excited States of Ar 16+ in Tokamak Plasmas.” Physical Review
Letters 52(1984):2245.

Kent, S. M. “Photometry of Stars in the uvgr System.” Publications of the Astronomical Society of the
Pacific 97(1985):165.

Kohl, J. L.; Gardner, L. D.; Lafyatis, G. P.; Young, A. R.; and Chutjian, A. “Photo-Ion Coincidence

Measurements of Dielectronic Recombination in C°+.” In Atomic Ezcitations and Recombination in

External Fields, eds. M. H. Nayfeh and C. Clar, p. 421. New York: Gordon and Breach Science
Publisher, 1985.

Kenyon, S. J. “Physical Models for the UV Continua of Symbiotic Stars.” In Future of UV Astronomy
Based on Siz Years of IVE Research, eds. J. M. Mead, R. D. Chapman, and Y. Kondo, p. 408.
Baltimore, Maryland: NASA Conference Publication 2349, 1984.

“Accretion Disks in Symbiotic Stars and Their Relation to Cataclysmic Variables.” In

Cataclysmic Variables and Low Mass X-Ray Binaries, eds. D. Q. Lamb and J. Patterson, p. 417.

Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1985.

. “Symbiotic Stars.” In Interacting Binaries, Proceedings of NATO Advanced Study Institute, eds.
P. P. Eggleton and J. E. Pringle, p. 179. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1985.

Kenyon, S. J., and Gallagher, J. S. “Spectroscopy of the Winds from Hubble-Sandage Stars in M31 and
M33.” Astrophysical Journal 290(1985):542.

Kenyon, S. J.; Michalitsianos, A. G.; Lutz, J. H.; and Kafatos, M. “The 1984 Eclipse of the Symbiotic
Binary SY Muscae.” Publications of the Astronomical Society of the Pacific 97(1985):268.

Kirshner, R. P. “Astrophysical Distances to Type II Supernovae.” In Supernova as Distances Indicators,
ed. N. Bartel, p. 171. New York: Springer-Verlag, 1985.

. “Giant Voids in the Universe.” In Sctence Year 1985, p. 181. Chicago, Illinois: Encyclopedia
Britannica, 1985.

Koch, D. “Using the ET for Gamma-Ray Astronomy.” In Proceedings of the Workshop on Gamma-Ray
and High Energy Gamma-Ray Experiments for the Space Station Era, eds. V. Jones and J. Wefel, p.
454. Baton Rouge: Louisiana State University, 1985.

. “Results of a Study to Build a Gamma-Ray Telescope in an External Tank.” Proceedings of the
19th International Cosmic Ray Conference (La Jolla, USA) 3(1985):363.

Kurtz, M. J. “Progress in Automation Techniques for MK Classification.” The MK Process and Stellar
Classification, ed. R. F. Garrison, p. 136. Toronto, Canada: David Dunlap Observatory, 1985.
Kurtz, M.; Huchra, J. P.; Beers, T. C.; Geller, M. J.; Gioia, I. M.; Maccaccaro, T.; Schild, R. E.; and

Stauffer, J. R. “The X-ray Cluster Abell 744.” Astronomical Journal 90(1985):1665.

Kurucz, R. L.; Furenlid, I.; Brault, J.; and Testerman, L. Solar Fluz Atlas from 296 to 1800 nm. Sunspot,
New Mexico: National Solar Observatory, 1984.

Kwok, T. L.; Dalgarno, A.; and Posen, A. “Transition Probabilities of the B1L, — Ke System of
Molecular Hydrogen.” Physics Review A 32(1985):646.

Lacasse, M. G., and Traub, W. A. “COSMIC Image Reconstruction.” In Colloquium on Kilometric
Optical Arrays in Space, p. 133. Paris, France: European Space Agency, 1985.

Lamb, D. K.; Aly, J.-J.; Cook, M. C.; and Lamb, D. Q. “Synchronization of Magnetic White Dwarfs in
Close Binary Systems.” In Cataclysmie Variables and Low Mass X-Ray Variables, eds. D. Q. Lamb
and J. Patterson, p. 237. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1984.

Lamb, D. Q. “Physics of Gamma-Ray Burst Spectra.” In High Energy Transients in Astrophysics, AIP
Conference Proceedings No. 115, ed. S. E. Woosley, p. 512. New York: American Institute of
Physics, 1984.

. “Recent Developments in the Theory of AM Her and DQ Her Stars.” In Cataclysmic Variables
and Low Mass X-Ray Binaries, eds. D. Q. Lamb and J. Patterson, p. 179. Dordrecht, Holland: D.
Reidel Publishing Company, 1984.

Lamb, D. Q.; Lattimer, J. M.; Pethick, C. J.; and Ravenhall, D. G. “Physical Properties of Hot, Dense
Matter: The General Case.” Nuclear Physics A432(1985):646.

Lamb, D. Q., and Patterson, J. (Editors). Cataclysmic Variables and Low Mass X-Ray Binartes.
Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1984.

LaSala, J., and Kurtz, M. J. “A Fast, Reliable Spectral Rectification Technique.” Publications of the
Astronomical Society of the Pacific 97(1985):605.

Latham, D. W. “Digital Stellar Speedometry.” In [.A.U. Colloqium No. 88, Stellar Radial Velocities,
eds. A. G. D. Philip and D. W. Latham, p. 21. Schenectady, New York: L. Davis Press, 1985.

Latham, D. W.; Carney, B. W.; and Stefanik, R. P.; “A Search for Halo Binaries: The First Results.”
In Proceedings of I.A.U. Colloquium No. 88, Stellar Radial Velocities, eds. A. G. D. Philip and D.

169
W. Latham, p. 381. Schenectady, New York: L. Davis Press, 1985.

Latham, D. W.; Hazen-Liller, M. L.; and Pryor, C. P. In Proceedings of I.A.U. Colloquium No. 88,
Stellar Velocities, eds. A. G. D. Philip and D. W. Latham, p. 264. Schenectady, New York: L. Davis
Press, 1985.

Lawrence, A.; Ward, M. J.; Elvis, M.; Fabbiano, G.; Willner, S. P.; Carleton, N. P.; and Longmore, A.
“1-20 wm Observations of Low Luminosity Active Nuclei.” Astrophysical Journal 291 (1985):117.
Leopold, K. R.; Fraser, G. T.; Lin, F. J.; Nelson, D. D., Jr.; and Klemperer, W. “Microwave and
Radiofrequency Stark Spectrum of ArHCN: A Highly Nonrigid Molecule.” Journal of Chemical

Physics 81(1984):4922.

Lepp, S.; McCray, R.; Shull, J. M.; Woods, D. T.; and Kallman, T. “Thermal Phases of Interstellar and
Quasar Gas.” Astrophysical Journal 288(1985):58.

Lo, K. Y.; Backer, D. C.; Ekers, R. D.; Kellermann, I. I.; Reid, M. J.; and Moran, J. M. “On the Size
of the Galactic Center Compact Radio Source: Diameter 21 AU.” Nature 315(1985):124.

Maccacaro, T. “X-ray Surveys of Quasars with the Einstein Observatory, in X-ray and UV Emission from
AGNs.” In Proceedings of the Garching Meeting on X-ray and UV Emission from Active Galactic
Nuclei, eds. W. Brinkmann and J. Trumper, MPE Report 184(1984):63.

Maccacaro, T., and Gioia, I. M. “Extragalactic X-ray Sources Counts and Optical Identifications.” In
Proceedings of Non-Thermal and Very High Temperature Phenomena in X-ray Astronomy, eds. G.
T. Perola and M. Salvati, p. 147. Rome, Italy: Istituto Astronomico, 1985.

Malumuth, E. M., and Kirshner, R. P. “Dynamics of Luminous Galaxies. II. Surface Photometry and
Velocity Dispersions of Brightest Cluster Members.” Astrophysical Journal 291(1985):8.

Maraschi, S.; Schwartz, D. A.; Tanzi, E. G.; and Treves, A. “Multifrequency Observations of the BL Lac
Object PKS 0547-441.” Astrophysical Journal 294(1985):615.

Marcaide, J. M.; Bartel, N.; Gorenstein, M. V.; Shapiro, I. I.; Corey, B. E.; Rogers, A. E. E.; Webber,
J. C.; Clark, T. A.; Romney, J. D.; and Preston, R. A. “The Quasar 4C39.25 is Not Contracting.”
Nature 314(1985):424.

Marcaide, J. M.; Shapiro, I. I.; Corey, B. E.; Cotton, W. D.; Gorenstein, M. V.; Rogers, A. E. E.;
Romney, J. D.; Schild, R.; Ball, J.; Baath, L.; Bartel, N.; Cohen, N. L.; Clark, T. A.; Preston,
R. A.; Ratner, M. I.; and Whitney, A. R. “On the Quasars 1038+528 A and B.” Astronomy and
Astrophysics 142(1985):71.

Marsden, B. G. “Remarks on Cometary Astrometry.” In Cometary Astrometry, eds. D. K. Yeomans,
R. M. West, R. S. Harrington, and B. G. Marsden, p. 27. Pasadena, California: Jet Propulsion
Laboratory, 1984.

. “Nongravitational Effects.” In Cometary Astrometry, eds. D. K. Yeomans, R. M. West, R. S.

Harrington, and B. G. Marsden, p. 27. Pasadena, California: Jet Propulsion Laboratory, 1984.

. (editor and contributor). International Astronomical Union Circular Nos. 8995-4024, 1984;

International Astronomical Union Circular Nos. 4025-4086, 1985.

. (editor and contributor). Minor Planet Circular Nos. 9121-9814, 1984; Minor Planet Circular

Nos. 9815-9842, 1985.

. “Annual Report of the Central Bureau for Astronomical Telegrams.” International Information

Bulletin No. 58, (1985).

. “Annual Report of the Minor Planet Center.” International Astronomical Union Information

Bulletin No. 58, (1985):18.

. “Comets in 1979.” Quarterly Journal of the Royal Astronomical Society 26(1985):106.

. “Orbits for Amateurs with a Microcomputer (review).” Sky and Telescope 69(1985):322.

. “Nongravitational Forces on Comets: The First Fifteen Years.” In Dynamics of Comets, eds.

A. Carusi and G. B. Valsecchi, p. 343. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1985.

. “Supernovae Up Close.” In Supernovae as Distance Indicators, ed. N. Bartel, p. 222. Berlin:

Springer-Verlag, 1985.

. “Comets in 1980.” Quarterly Journal of the Royal Astronomical Society 26(1985):156.

. “Magnetic Tape of Observations of Minor Planets and Comets.” Minor Planet Center, 373,847
entries.

Marsden, B. G., and Green, D. W. E. “Comets in 1977.” Quarterly Journal of the Royal Astronomical
Society 26(1985):81.

. “Comets in 1978.” Quarterly Journal of the Royal Astronomical Society 26(1985):92.

“Initial Orbit Determination: The Pragmatist’s View.” Astronomical Journal
90(1985):1541.

Marsden, B. G.; Green, D. W. E.; and Roemer, E. “Comets in 1976.” Quarterly Journal of the Royal
Astronomical Society 26(1985):68.

Marvin, U. B., and Walker, D. “A Transient Heating Event in the History of a Highlands Trocolite from
Apollo 12 Soin 12033.” In Proceedings of the 15th Lunar and Planetary Science Conference 90, C421.
Houston, Texas: Lunar and Planetary Science Institute, 1985.

Marvin, U. B., and Lindstrom, M. M. “Geochemistry and Petrology of Clasts from North Ray Crater
Breccia 67015.” In Lunar and Planetary Science XVI 2(1985):495.

Mathieu, R. D. “The Structure and Internal Dynamics of Open Clusters.” In Dynamics of Star Clusters,
eds. J. Goodman and P. Hut, p. 427. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1985.

. “Radial Velocity Studies of the Internal Kinematics of Open Clusters.” In Proceedings I.A.U.
Colloquium No. 88, Stellar Radial Velocities, eds. A. G. D. Philip and D. W. Latham, p. 249.
Schenectady, New York: L. Davis Press, 1985.

Mathieu, R. D.; Hartmann, L.; and Latham, D.W. “Stellar Kinematics in Star-Forming Regions.” In
I.A.U. Colloquium No. 88, Stellar Radial Velocities, eds. A. G. D. Philip and D. W. Latham, p.
263. Schenectady, New York: L. Davis Press, 1985.

Mathieu, R. D.; Stefanik, R. P.; and Latham, D. W. “The Binary Population of the Hyades.” In
Proceedings I.A.U. Colloquium No. 88, Stellar Radial Velocities, eds. A. G. D. Philip and D. W.
Latham, p. 385. Schenectady, New York: L. Davis Press, 1985.

Mattison, E. M.; Vessot, R. F. C.; and Shen, W. “Measurement and Interpretation of Hydrogen Maser
Quality Parameters.” In Proceedings of 39th Annual Frequency Control Symposium, p. 72. Ft.
Monmouth, New Jersey: U.S. Army Electronics Laboratory, 1985.

Mattison, E. M.; Vessot, R. F. C.; and Jacobs, S. F. “Properties of Low-Expansion Materials for
Hydrogen Maser Cavities.” In Proceedings of 39th Annual Frequency Control Symposium, p. 75.
Ft. Monmouth, New Jersey: U.S. Army Electronics Laboratory, 1985.

Mauche, C.; Gorenstein, P.; and Fabricant, D. “Measurements of X-ray Scattering from Interstellar
Dust.” Advanced Space Research 5(1985):141.

McClintock, J. E., and Rappaport, S. A. “Low-Mass X-ray Binaries.” In Cataclysmic Variables and
Low-Mass X-ray Binaries, eds. D. Q. Lamb and J. Patterson, p. 61. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel
Publishing Company, 1985.

Micela, G.; Sciortino, S.; Serio, S.; Vaiana, G.S.; Golub, L.; Harnden, F. R., Jr.; and Rosner, R. “Einstein
X-ray Survey of the Pleiades: The Dependence of X-ray Luminosity on Stellar Age.” Astrophysical
Journal 292(1985):172.

Molnar, L. A.; Reid, M. J.; and Grindlay, J. E. “Confirmation of Radio Periodicity in Cygnus X-3.” In
Radio Stars, eds. R. Hjellming and D. M. Gibson, p. 329. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing
Company, 1985.

Moran, J. M. “The SAO Submillimeter Telesocpe Array Project.” In Proceedings of the International
Symposium on Millimeter and Submillimeter Astronomy, ed. J. Gomez-Gonzalez, p. 89. Granada,
Spain: International Union of Radio Science, 1985.

Murcray, D. G.; Goldman, A.; Kosters, J.; Zander, R.; Evans, W.; Louisnard, N.; Alamichel, C.;
Bangham, M.; Pollitt, S.; Carli, B.; Dinelli, B.; Piccioli, S.; Volboni, A.; Traub, W.; and
Chance, K. “Intercomparison of Stratospheric Water Vapor Profiles Obtained During the Balloon
Intercomparison Campaign.” In Proceedings of the Quadrennial Ozone Symposium, eds. C. S. Zerefos
and A. Ghazi, p. 144. Hingham, Massachusetts: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1984.

Myers, P. C. ‘Star Formation in Dense Cores in Nearby Dark Clouds.” In Proceedings of the International
Symposium on Millimeter and Submillimeter Wave Radio Astronomy, ed. J. Gomez-Gonzalez, p. 251.
Granada, Spain: International Union of Radio Science, 1985.

Nemec, J. M.; Hazen-Liller, M. L.; and Hesser, J. E. “The Secular Period Behaviour of 38 RR Lyrae
Stars in the LMC Globular Cluster NGC 2257.” Astrophysicai Journal Supplements 57(1985):329.

. “Period Changes of RR Lyrae Stars in the LMC Globular Cluster NGC 2257.” In Proceedings

I.A.U. Symposium No. 108, eds. S. van den Bergh and K. S. de Boer, p. 39. Dordrecht, Holland:

D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1985.

Noyes, R. W. “Stellar Magnetic Activity, Rotation, and Convection.” Advances in Space Research 4(No.
8)(1984):151.

Noyes, R. W.; Baliunas, S. L.; Belserene, E.; Duncan, D. K.; Horne, J.; and Widrow, L. “Evidence for
Global Oscillations in the K2 Dwarf Epsilon Eridani.” Astrophystcal Journal (Letters) 285(1984):L23.

Noyes, R. W., and Rhodes, E. J. (Editors). “Probing the Depths of a Star: The Study of Solar
Oscillations from Space,” 76 pp. Pasadena, California: Jet Propulsion Laboratory, 1984.

Noyes, R. W.; Weiss, N. O.; and Vaughan, A. H. “The Relation Between Stellar Rotation Rate and
Activity Cycle Periods.” Astrophysical Journal 287(1984):769.

Ostro, S. J.; Campbell, D. B.; and Shapiro, I. I. “Mainbelt Asteroids: Dual-Polarization Radar
Observations.” Science 229(1985):442.

Owocki, S. P., and Rybick, G. B. “Effect of Scattering on Instabilities in the Line-Driven Stellar Winds.”
In The Origin of Non- Radiative Heating/Momentum in Hot Stars, eds. A. B. Underhill and A. G.
Michalitsianos, p. 221. Greenbelt, Maryland: NASA Conference Publication 2358, 1985.

Patterson, J.; Beuermann, K.; Lamb, D. Q.; Fabbiano, G.; Raymond, J. C.; Swank, J.; and White, N.
E. “VV Puppis, The Soft X-Ray Machine.” Astrophysical Journal 279(1984):785.

Patterson, J., and Raymond, J. C. “X-Ray Emission from Cataclysmic Variables with Accretion Disks.
I. Hard X-Rays.” Astrophysical Journal 292(1985):535.

“X-Ray Emission from Cataclysmic Variables with Accretion Disks. II. EUV/Soft X-Ray
Radiation.” Astrophysical Journal 292 (1985):550.

Peterson, B. M.; Meyers, K. A.; Capriotti, E. R.; Foltz, C. B.; Wilkes, B. J.; and Miller, H. R. “The
Variability of the Spectrum of Arakelian 120 II. Evidence for a Small Broad-Line Emitting Region.”
Astrophysical Journal 292(1985):164.

Philip, A. G. D., and Latham, D. W. (Editors). [.A.U. Colloquium No. 88, Stellar Radial Velocities.
Schenectady, New York: L. Davis Press, 1985.

Pipher, J. L.; Willner, S. P.; and Fazio, G. G. “Infrared Astronomy on the Hubble Space Telesope.” In
Advances in Space Research, eds. G. G. Fazio, J. A. M. Bleeker, P. A. J. deKorte, and J. J. Caldwell,
p. 173. Oxford, England: Pergamon Press, 1985.

Porter, N. A.; Fegan, D. J.; MacNeill, G. C., and Weekes, T. C. “A Search for Evidence of Nuclearites
in Astrophysical Pulse Experiments.” Nature 316(1985):49.

Postman, M.; Huchra, J. P.; Geller, M. J.; and Henry, J. P. “The Magnitude-Redshift Relation for 561
Clusters.” Astronomical Journal 90(1985):1400.

Pryor, C.; Latham, D. W.; and Hazen-Liller, M. H. “An Extension of the Search for Spectroscopic
Binaries in M3.” In Proceedings [.A.U. Symposium No. 118, Dynamics of Star Clusters, eds. P. Hut
and J. Goodman. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1985.

Raymond, J. C. “Observations of Supernova Remnants.” Annual Review of Astronomy and Astrophysics
22(1985):75.

Reasenberg, R. D. “Microarcsecond Astrometric Interferometry.” In Proceedings of the Workshop on
High Angular Resolution Optical Interferometry from Space, eds. P. B. Boyce and R. D. Reasenberg,
Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 16(3)(1984): 758.

Reid, M. J., and Ho, P. T. P. “G34.3+0.2: A ’Cometary’ HII Region.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters)
288(1985):L17. :

Rengarajan, T. N.; Fazio G. G.; Maxson, C. W.; McBreen, B.; Serio, S.; and Sciortino, S. “Far-
Infrared Observations of Two Southern HII Regions RCW122 and G351.6-1.3.” Astronomical Journal
90(1985):88.

Robbins, D.; Evans, W.; Louisnard, N.; Pollitt, S.; Traub, W.; Chance, K.; and Waters, J. “Ozone
Intercomparisons from the Balloon Intercomparison Campaign.” In Proceedings of the Quadrennial

zone Symposium, eds. C. S. Zerefos and A. Ghazi, p. 454. Hingham, Massachusetts: D. Reidel
Publishing Company, 1984.

Roberts, D. H.; Greenfield, P. E.; Hewitt, J. N.; Burke, B. F.; and Dupree, A. A. “The Multiple Images
of the Quasar 0957+561.” Astrophysical Journal 293(1985):356.

Rodriguez, L. F.; Garcia-Barreto, J. A.; Canto, J.; Moreno, M. A.; Torres-Peimbert, S.; Costero, R.;
Moran, J. M.; and Garay, G. “Radio Observations of the Young Planetary Nebula NGC 6302.”
Monthly Notices of the Royal Astronomical Society 215 (1985):353.
Rogers, A. E. E.; Moffet, A. T.; Backer, D. C.; and Moran, J. M. “Coherence Limits Imposed by
Atmospheric Noise in VLBI Observations at 3-mm Wavelength.” Radio Science 19(1983):1552.
Rybicki, G. B. “Escape Probability Methods.” In Progress in Stellar Spectral Line Formation Theory,
eds. J. E. Beckman and L. Crivellari, p. 199. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company,

1985. ‘

Sanders, D. B., and Willner, S. P. “The Orion B Molecular Jet.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters)
293(1985):L39.

Schild, R. “CCD Observations of Galaxies in Clusters at High Redshift.” Astrophysical Journal
286(1984):450.

Schild, R.; Huchra, J.; and Tresch-Feinberg, R. “CCD Photometry of the Seyfert Galaxy NGC 1068.”
Astronomical Journal 90 (1985):441.

Schmitt, J. H. M. M.; Golub, L.; Harnden, F. R. Jr.; and Rosner, R. “An Einstein Observatory Survey
of Late-Type Stars with Shallow Convection Zones.” Astrophysical Journal 290(1985):307.

Schmitt, J. H. M. M.; Harnden, F. R. Jr.; Peres, G.; Rosner, R.; and Serio, S. “The X-ray Corona of
Procyon.” Astrophysical Journal 288(1985):751.

Schmitt, J. H. M. M., and Reid, M. J. “VLBI Observations of the Nucleus of M87 at Two Epochs.”
Astrophysical Journal 289(1985):120.

Schmitz, F.; Ulmschneider, P.; and Kalkofen, W. “Acoustic Waves in the Solar Atmosphere VII: Non-
Grey non-LTE models.” Astronomy and Astrophysics 148(1985):217.

Schrijver, C. J.; Zwaan, C.; Maxson, C. W.; and Noyes, R. W. “Study of Ultraviolet and X-ray Emissions
of Selected Solar Regions.” Astronomy and Astrophysics 149(1985):123.

Schwartz, D.; Bradt, H.; Buckley, D.; Patterson, J.; Remillard, R.; Roberts, W.; and Tuohy, I. “New
Identifications of Bright X-ray Sources with the HEAO-1 Scanning Modulation Collimator.” In
Astronomy ’84, eds. M. Oda and R. Giacconi, p.. 455. Tokyo, Japan: Institute for Space and
Astronautical Science, 1985.

“Recent Optical Identifications of HEAO-1 X-ray Sources.” Advanced Space Research
5(1985):137.

Seward, F. D. “Supernova Remnants Containing Neutron Stars.” Comments on Astrophysics
11(1985):15.

Seward, F. D.; Gorenstein, P.; and Tucker, W. H. “Young Supernova Remnants.” Sctentific American
253(1985):88.

Seward, F. D.; Harnden, F. R., Jr.; and Elsner, R. F. “The 50 Millisecond Pulsar in the Large Magellanic
Cloud and the X-ray Pulsar Emission Mechanism.” In The Crab Nebula and Related Supernova
Remnants, eds. M. C. Kafatos and R. C. Henry, p. 165. Cambridge, England: Cambridge University
Press, 1985.

Seward, F. D.; Harnden, F. R. Jr.; and Helfand, D. “Discovery of a 50 millisec Pulsar in the Large
Magellanic Cloud.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 287(1984):L19.

. “Discovery of a 50 millisec Pulsar in the Large Magellanic Cloud.” In X-ray Astronomy ’84,
eds. M. Oda and R. Giacconi, p. 297. Tokyo, Japan: Institute for Space and Astronautical Science,
1985.

Shao, M.; Colavita, M.; Staelin, D.; and Johnston, K. “The Technology Requirements for a Small Space-
Based Astrometric Interferometer.” In Proceedings of the Workshop on High Angular Resolution
Optical Interferometry From Space, eds. P. B. Boyce and R. D Reasenberg, Bulletin of the American
Astronomical Society 16(3)(1984):750.

Smith, P. L.; Johnson, B. C.; Kwong, H. S.; and Parkinson, W. H. “Measurements of Transition
Probabilities for Spin-Changing Lines of Atomic Ions Used in Diagnostics of Astrophysical Plasmas.”
Physica Scripta TA8(1984):88.

Smith, P. L.; Magnusson, C. E.; and Zetterberg, P. O. “Laboratory Identification of the 3s? 3p? °P2,;-
3s3p? °S2 Intersystem Lines of S III.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 277(1984):L79.

Spergel, D. N., and Press, W. H. “Effect of Hypothetical, Weakly- Interacing, Massive Particles on
Energy Transport in the Solar Interior.” Astrophysical Journal 294(1985):663.

“Capture of the Sun of a Galactic Population of Weakly-Interacting, Massive Particles.”

Astrophysical Journal 296(1985):679.

Stachnik, R. V., and Gezari, D. Y. “SAMSI: A Orbiting Spatial Interferometer for Microarcsecond
Astronomical Observations.” In Proceedings of a Colloquium ”Kilometric Optical Arrays in Space,”
(Cargese, Corsica), ESA SP-226, p. 35. Noordwijk, The Netherlands: ESTEK, 1985.

Starrfield, S.; Kenyon, S.; Truran, J. W.; and Sparks, W. M. “Hydrodynamic Simulation of a Combined
Hydrogen-Helium Thermonuclear Runaway on a 10-km Neutron Star.” In Cataclysmic Variables and
Low Mass X-Ray Binaries, eds. D. Q. Lamb and J. Patterson, p. 133. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel
Publishing Company, 1985.

Stauffer, J. R.; Hartmann, L.; Burnham, N.; and Jones, B. F. “Evolution of Low Mass Stars in the a
Persei Cluster.” Astrophysical Journal 289(1985):247.

Stefanik, R. P., and Latham, D.W. “The Hyades: Membership and Convergent Point From Radial
Velocities.” In Proceedings I.A.U. Colloquium No. 88, Stellar Radial Velocities, eds. A. G. D. Philip
and D. W. Latham, p. 213. Schenectady, New York: L. Davis Press, 1985.

Stier, M. T.; Jaffe, D. T.; Rengarajan, T. N.; Fazio, G. G.; Maxson, C. W.; McBreen, B.; Loughran, L.;
Serio, S.; and Sciortino, S. “Far-Infrared and CO Observations of the W33 Complex.” Astrophysical
Journal 283(1985):573.

Taylor, J. H.; Gwinn, C. R.; Weisberg, J. M.; and Rawley, L. A. “Pulsar Astrometry.” In Proceedings
ILA.U. Symposium 110, VLBI and Compact Radio Sources, eds. R. Fanti, K. Kellermann, and G.
Setti, p. 347. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1984.

Teske, R. G., and Kirshner, R. P. “An [Fe X] 16374 Image of a Part of the Cygnus Loop.” Astrophysical
Journal 292(1985):22.

Torrelles, J. M.; Canto, J.; Rodriguez, L. F.; Ho, P. T. P.; and Moran, J. M. “An Ammonia Toroid
Aligned Perpendicular to the HH1 and HH2 Bipolar Outflow.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters)
294(1985):L117.

Torrelles, J. M.; Ho, P. T. P.; Rodriguez, L. F.; and Canto, J. “VLA Observations of Ammonia and
Continuum in Regions with High Velocity Gaseous Outflows.” Astrophysical Journal 288(1985):595.

Traub, W. A. “COSMIC: A High Resolution, Large Collecting Area Telescope.” In Proceedings of
Colloquium on Kilometric Optical Arrays in Space, eds. N. Longdon and O. Melita, p. 43. Paris,
France: European Space Agency, 1985.

Trinchieri, G.; and Fabbiano, G. “A Statistical Analysis of the Einstein Normal Galaxy Sample: II.
Elliptical and SO Galaxies.” Astrophysical Journal 296(1985):447.

Trinchieri, G.; Fabbiano, G.; and Palumbo, G. G. C. “Detailed X-ray Observations of M82.” Astrophysical
Journal 290(1985):96.

Tsinganos, K.; Ferrari, A.; and Rosner, R. “Quasi-two-dimensional Cosmic Jets.” In Proceedings I.A.U.
Symposium 107, Unstable Current Systems and Plasma Instabilities in Astrophysics, August 6-10,
1983, eds. M. R. Kundu and G. D. Holman, p. 497. Baltimore, Maryland: University of Maryland,
1985.

Tucker, W., and Giacconi, R. The X-ray Universe. Cambridge, Massachusetts: Harvard University
Press, 1985.

Turner, J. L., and Welch, W. J. “Discovery of a Young Stellar Object Near the Water Masers in W3(OH).”
Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 287(1984):L81.

van Dishoeck, E. F., and Dalgarno, A. “The Dissociation of OH and OD in Comets by Solar Radiation.”
Icarus 59(1984):305.

van Dishoeck, E. F.; van Hemert, M. C.; Allison, A. C.; and Dalgarno, A. “Resonances in
the Photodissociation of OH by Absorption into Coupled 7II States: Adiabatic and Diabatic
Formulations.” Journal of Chemical Physics 81(1984):5709.

Vessot, R. F. C. “Tests of Gravitation and Relativity.” Contemporary Physics 25(1984):355.

. “Tests of Gravitation and Relativity.” In Prectston Measurements and Fundamental Constants
II, eds. B. N. Taylor and W. D. Phillips, National Bureau of Standards (U.S.) Special Publications
617(1984):611.

Vessot, R. F. C.; Allan, D. W.; Alley, C. O.; Decher, R.; Penfield, H.; and Winkler, G. M. R. “A
High Accuracy Spaceborne Worldwide Time and Frequency Comparison System.” In Proceedings of
International Conference on Frequency and Time Meteorology, Honzu, China (Sept. 1984), 1985.

Vessot, R. F. C.; Mattison, E. M.; Imbier, E. A.; Zhai, Z. C.; Klepczynski, W. J.; Wheeler, P. G.; Kubik,
A. J.; and Winkler, G. M. R. “Performance Data of U.S Naval Observatory VLG-11 Hydrogen

Masers Since September 1984.” In Proceedings of the 16th Annual Precise Time and Time Interval
Conference (Goddard Space Flight Center, Nov. 27-29, 1984,) ed. R. L. Sydnor, p. 375. Washington,
D.C.: NASA, 1984.

Vessot, R. F. C.; Mattison, E. M.; Klepczynski, W. J.; Winkler, G. M. R.; Silvera, I. F.; and Godfried,
H. P. “Present Clock Stability and Realistic Prospects for the Future.” In Proceedings of 4th Annual
Marcel Grossman Meeting on General Relativity (Rome, Italy, June 17-21), 1985.

Vessot, R. F. C.; Mattison, E. M.; and Zhai, Z. C. “Atomic Hydrogen Measurements with Wall
Surfaces of Carbon Tetrafluoride.” In Proceedings of the 16th Annual Precise Time and Time Interval
Conference, (Goddard Space Flight Center, Nov. 27-29, 1984), ed. R. L. Sydnor, p. 357. Washington,
D.C.: NASA, 1984.

Vrtilek, J. M., and Carlton, N. P. “Seyfert Galaxy Narrow-Line Regions. I. Observations of {O III]
45007.” Astrophysical Journal 294(1985):106.

Weekes, T. C. “A Third Generation VHE Gamma Ray Observatory.” In Proceedings of Workshop on
Cosmic Ray and High Energy Gamma-Ray Experiments for the Space Station Era, eds. V. Jones and
J. Wefel, p. 497. Baton Rouge: Louisiana State University, 1985.

“An Observatory to Study 10/9 to 1017 eV Gamma Rays.” In Proceedings of the 19th
International Cosmic Ray Conference (La Jolla, USA) 3(1985):422.

Wehrse, R., and Kalkofen, W. “Resonance Lines in Dusty Gaseous Nebulae.” Astronomy and
Astrophysics 147(1985):71. :

Wetmore, R. W.; Fox. J. L.; and Dalgarno, A. “Radiative Lifetimes of the Second Negative System of
the O2.” Planetary and Space Science 32(1984):1111.

Whitney, C. “Semiregular Variables: Are They Chaotic or Ringing?” Journal of the American
Association of Variable Star Observations 13(1)(1984).

. “Generation and Testing of Pseudo-Random Numbers.” BYTE October(1984):128.

Whitney, C., and Aikawa, T. “Stellar Acoustics III. Pulse Propagation and Bump Features. Astrophysical
Journal 296(1985):165.

Whipple, F.L. “Comet P/Holmes, 1892 III - a Case of Duplicity?” Icarus 60(1984):522.

Wilkes, B. J. “PG0946+301: A Low Redshift BAL QSO.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters)
288(1985):L1.

Withbroe, G. L.; Habbal, S. R.; and Ronan, R. S. “Impulsive Phenomena in a Small Active Region.”
Solar Physics 95(1985):297.

Withbroe, G. L., and Raymond, J. C. “Plasma Diagnostics for the Outer Solar Corona, UV and XUV
Fe XII Lines.” Astrophysical Journal 285(1984):347.

Witt, A., and Schild, R. “Colors of Reflection Nebulae. II. The Excitation of Extended Red Emission.”
Astrophysical Journal.294(1985):225.

Wood, J. A. “Formation of Chondrules by Drag Heating in Dust-Enriched Environments.” Lunar and
Planetary Sctence XV(1984):933.

. “On the Formation of Meteoritic Chondrules by Aerodynamic Drag Heating in the Solar

Nebula.” Earth and Planetary Science Letters 70(1984):11.

. “An Overview of the Cosmic History of the Biogenic Elements and Compounds.” In Cosmic

History of the Biogenic Elements and Compounds, eds. J. A. Wood and S. Chang, NASA SP-476, p.

4:9. NASA, 1985.

. “The Initiation of Chondrule Accretion after Chondrule Formation by Drag Heating.” Lunar
and Planetary Science XVI(1985):920.

Wood, J. A., and Chang, S. (Editors) “Cosmic History of the Biogenic Elements and Compounds.”
NASA SP-476. NASA, 1985.

Wood, J. A., and Kornacki, A. S. “The Mineral Chemistry and Origin of Inclusion Matrix in the Allende
CV3 Chondrite.” Geochimica et Cosmochimica Acta 48(1984):1663.

“Mineral Chemistry and Origin of Spinel-Rich Inclusions in the Allende CV3 Chondrite.”

Geochimica et Cosmochimica Acta 49 (1985):1219.

“The Identification of Group II Inclusions by Electron Probe Microanalysis.” Earth and
Planetary Science Letters 72(1985):74.

Worrall, D. M. “BL Lacertae Objects: Multifrequency Observations and Model Applications.” In
Proceedings of the Conference on X-ray and UV Emission from Active Galactic Nuclet, eds. W.

Brinkmann and J. Trumper, p. 11. MPE Report 184, 1984.

Worrall, D. M.; Puschell, J. J.; Rodriquez-Espinosa, J. M.; Bruhweiler, F. C.; Miller, H. R.; Aller, M.
F.; and Aller, H. D. “Multifrequency Spectral Behavior of the BL Lac Objects OI 90.4 and 3C 66A.”
The Astrophysical Journal 286(1984): 711.

Yee, J-H.; Abreu, V.J.; and Dalgarno, A. “Characteristics of the Spacecraft Optical Glow.” Geophysical
Research Letters 11(1984): 1192.

Yee, J-H., and Dalgarno, A. “Energy Transfer of O(.5) Atoms in Collision with O(? P) Atoms.” Planetary
and Space Science 33(1985):825.

Yoshino, K., and Freeman, D.E. “High Resolution. Vacuum Ultraviolet Absorption Spectrum of
Nz: Perturbations in the c£(0)'Zt and c4(0)'II, Rydberg Levels.” Canadian Journal of Physics
62(1984):1478.

“Absorption Spectrum of Xenon in the Vacuum-Ultraviolet Region.” Journal of the Optical
Society of America B 2(1985): 1268.

Yoshino, K.; Freeman, D.E.; and Parkinson, W.H. “High Resolution Absorption Cross Section
Measurements of N2O at 295-299 K in the Wavelength Region 170-222 nm.” Planetary and Space
Science 32(1984):1219.

“Atlas of the Schumann-Runge Absorption Bands of O2 in the Wavelength Region 175-205
nm.” Journal of Physical Chemistry Reference Data 13(1985):207.

Zheng, X. W.; Ho, P. T. P.; Reid, M. J.; and Schneps, M. H. “Molecular Clouds Associated with Compact
HII Regions II. The Rapidly Rotating Condensation Associated with ON1.” Astrophysical Journal
293(1985):522.

SMITHSONIAN ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH CENTER

Chereskin, Barbara M.; Clement-Metral, Jenny D.; and Gantt, Elisabeth.
“Characterization of a Purified Photosystem II-Phycobilisome Particle
Preparation from Porphuridium cruentum.," Plant Phusiologu
77(1985):626-629.

Cleland, Charles F. “Biochemistry of Induction - The Immediate Action of
Light.” In Light and the Flowering Process, pp. 123-136. Academic
Press, 1984.

Clement-Metral, Jenny D.; Gantt, Elisabeth; and Redlinger, Thomas. "A
Photosystem I1-Phycobilisome Preparation from the Red Alga, Porphyridium
cruentum: Oxygen Evolution, Ultrastructure, and Polypeptide Resolution.”
Archives of Biochemistry and Biophusics 238(1985):10-17.

Cotter, J. F. P.; Evenson, E. B.; Sirkin, L.; and Stuckenrath, R. "The
Interpretation of 'Bog-Bottom' Radiocarbon Dates in Glacial Chronologies.”
In Correlation of Quaternary Chronologies. ed. W. C. Jahaney, pp.
299-316. Teo Books, 1984.

Deitzer, Gerald F. "“Photoperiodic Induction in Long-Day Plants.” In Light
and the Flowering Process, Chapt. 4, pp. 51-63. Academic Press, 1984.

Dennison, David S., and Shropshire, W., Jr. "The Gravireceptor of
Phucomuces:Its Development Following Gravity Exposure." Journal of
General Phyusiologu 84(1984):845-859.

Drake, Bert G. “Light Response Characteristics of Net CO» Exchange in
Brackish Wetland Plant Communities." Oecologia 63(1984):263-270.

Fujioka, S.; Yamaguchi, I.; Murofushi, N.; Takahashi, N.; Kaihara, S.;
Takahashi, A.; and Cleland, C. F. 1985. "The Role of Benzoic Acid and
Plant Hormones in Flowering of Lemna gibba G3." Plant and Cell
Phusiologu 26(1985):655-659.

Goldberg, Bernard; Klein, William H.; Correll, David L.; and Pierce, J. W.
“Instrumentation for Performing Spectral Measurements in a Marine
Environment." Marine Technology Society Journal 18(1985):1-6.

Harding, R. W.; Philip, D. Q.; Drozdowicz, B. Z.; and Williams, N. P. "A
Neurospora crassa Mutant Which Overaccumulates Carotenoid Pigments.”
Neurospora Newsletter 31(1984):23-25.

Hines, A. H., and Comtois, K. L. “Vertical Distribution of Infauna in
Sediments of a Subestuary of Central Chesapeake Bay." Estuaries 8(1985):
251-261.

Hines, A. H.; Osgood, K. E.; and Miklas, J. J. “Semilunar Reproductive Cycles
in Fundulus heteroclitus (Pisces; Cyprino dontidae) in an Area Without
Lunar Tidal Cycles." Fishery Bulletin 83(1985):201-206.

Holliday, Vance T.; Johnson, Eileen; Haas, Herbert; and Stuckenrath, Robert.
"Radiocarbon Ages from the Lubbock Lake Site, 1950-1980: Framework for
Cultural and Ecological Change on the Southern High Plains." Journal of
the Plains Anthropology Society 28(1983):165-182.

Holmes, M. G.; Klein, W. H.; and Sager, J. C. "Photons, Flux and Some Light
on Philology.” HortScience 20(1985):29-31.

Longworth, J. W.; Jagger, J.; and Shropshire, W., Jr. (eds.) Photobiologu
1984. pp. 1-283. New York: Praeger Scientific Publishers, 1985.

Lynch, J. F. “The Feeding Ecology of Aneides flavipunctatus and Sympatric
Plethodontid Salamanders in Northern California.” Journal of Herpetologu
19(1985):328-352.
Meeson, B. W. and Faust, M. A. “Response of Prorocentrum minimum
(Dinophuceae) to Different Spectral Qualities and Irradiances: Growth and
Photosynthesis.” In Marine Biology of Polar Regions and Effects of Stress
on Marine Organisms, eds. J. S. Gray and M. E. Christiansen, pp. 445-461.
John Wiley & Sons, 1985.

Moore-Landecker, Elizabeth and Shropshire, W., Jr. “Effects of Ultraviolet A
Radiation and Inhibitory Volatile Substances on the Discomycete, Puronema
domesticum.” Mycologia 76(1984):820-829.

Peterjohn, William T. and Correll, David L. "Nutrient Dynamics in an
Agricultural Watershed: Observations on the Role of A Riparian Forest.”
Ecologu 65(1984):1466-1475.

Rublee, P. A.; Merkel, S. M.; Faust, M. A.; and Miklas, J. “Distribution and
Activity of Bacteria in the Headwaters of the Rhode River Estuary, Maryland,
U.S.A." Microbial Ecologu 10(1984):243-255.

Shropshire, W., Jr. “Signal Processing in the Transduction Mechanisms of
Phototropism.” In Sensory Perception and Transduction in Aneural
Organisms, ed. Giuliano Colombetti and Pill-Soon Song, pp. 211-229, Plenum
Publishing Corp., 1985.

Stanley, Daniel Jean; Nelsen, Terry A.; and Stuckenrath, Robert. "Recent
Sedimentation on the New Jersey Slope and Rise.” Science 226(1984)125-133.

Thompson, Laura K.; Ziv, Meira; and Deitzer, Gerald F. “Photocontrol of Peanut
(Arachis hupogaea L.) Embryo and Ovule Development in vitro." Plant
Physiology 78(1985):370-373.

Whigham, D. F. “The Effect of Competition and Nutrient Availability on the
Growth and Reproduction of Ipomoea hederacea in an Abandoned Old Field.”
Journal of Ecologu 72(1984):721-730.

. “Vegetation in Wetlands Receiving Sewage Effluent: The Importance of
the Seed Bank.” In Ecological Considerations in Wetlands Treatment of
Municipal Wastewater, eds. P. J. Godfrey, E. R. Kaynor, S. Pelczarski, and
J. Benforado, pp. 231-240. New York: Van Nostrand Reinhold, 1985.

Zeiger, Eduardo; Grivet, C.; Assmann, Sarah M.; Deitzer, Gerald F.; and
Hannegan, M. W. "“Stomatal Limitation to Carbon Gain in Paphiopedilum sp.

(Orchidaceae) and Its Reversal by Blue Light.” Plant Phusiologuy
77( 1985 ):456-460.

SMITHSONIAN OFFICE OF EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH

Falk, J.H. "Defining Excellence in Informal Education." In
Focus on Excellence, Vol. 2(3), ed. J.E. Penick, 1985.

Falk, JH. ; Koran, J.J.; and Dierking, L.D. "The Things of
Science: Assessing the Learning Potential of Science
Museums." Science Education 69(3)(1985):75-89.

Mager, R., and. Falk. J... "Informal Science Education: A

Critique." In Focus on Excellence, Vol. 2(3), edi we:
Penick, 1985.
SMITHSONIAN TROPICAL RESEARCH INSTITUTE

Ackerman, James D. "“Euglossine bees and their nectar hosts.” In: The
Botany and Natural History of Panama: La Botanica e Historia Natural
de Panama, ed. William G. D'Arcy and Mireya D. Correa A., pp. 225-234.
Saint Louis, Missouri: Missouri Botanical Garden, 1985.

Ackerman, James D. and Montalvo, Arlee M. “Longevity of euglossine bees.”
Biotropica 17(1)(1985): 79-81.

Altamar J., Aurora and Garcia Vielka. Cria en el laboratorio, estudio de
la ecologia y del ciclo de vida del orden Ephemeroptera (Insecta) en el
Rio la Puente, Panamaé. Thesis, Universidad de Panama, 1985.

Angehr, George, Coley, Phyllis and Worthington, Andrea. Gufa de los
Arboles Comunes del Parque Nacional Soberania, Panama, éd. Smithsonian

Tropical Research Institute and Direccién Nacional de Recursos
Naturales Renovables. /71p, 1984.

Armbruster, W. Scott and Herzig, Ann L. “Partitioning and sharing of
pollinators by four sympatric species of Dalechampia (Euphorbiaceae) in
Panama." Annals of the Missouri Botanical Garden 71(1)(1984): 1-16.

Angermeier, Paul L. and Karr, James R. "Relationships between woody
debris and fish habitat in a small warmwater stream.” Transactions of
the American Fisheries Society 113(4)(1984): 716-726.

Augspurger, Carol K. “Flowering synchrony of neotropical plants.” In:
The Botany and Natural. History of Panama: La Botanica e Historia
Natural de Panama, ed. William G. D'Arcy and Mireya D. Correa A., pp.
235-244. Saint Louis, Missouri: Missouri Botanical Garden, 1985.

-----. "Light requirements of neotropical tree seedlings: a comparative
study of growth and survival.” Journal of Ecology, 72(3)(1984):
THA =195

=-ssz . "Seedling survival of tropical tree species: interactions of
dispersal distance, light-gaps, and pathogens.” Ecology 65(6)(1984):
7. OSs 7s. 2;. i

Becker, Peter and Wong, Marina. "Seed dispersal, seed predation, and
juvenile mortality of Aglaia sp. (Meliaceae) in Lowland dipterocarp
rainforest.” Biotropica 17(3)(1985): 230-237.

Bennett, Charles A. "The Panama land bridge: a brief review." In: The
Botany and Natural History of Panama: La Botanica e Historia Natural
de Panama, ed. William G. D'Arcy and Mireya D. Correa A., pp. 117-124.
Saint Louis, Missouri: Missouri Botanical Garden, 1985.

179
Blake, John G. and Karr, James R. “Species composition of bird
communities and the conservation benefit of large vs. small forests.”
Biological Conservation 30(2)(1984): 173-187.

Blomquist, Gary J., Roubik, David W. and Buchmann, Stephen L. "Wax
chemistry of two stingless bees of the Trigonisca group (Apidae:
Meliponinae)." Comparative Biochemistry and Physiology 82B(1)(1985):
137-142.

Borgia, Gerald. “Bower quality, number of decorations and mating success
of male satin bowerbirds (Ptilonorhynchus violaceus): an experimental
analysis. Animal Behaviour 33(1983): 266-271.

Brokaw, Nicholas V.L. “Gap-phase regeneration in a tropical forest.”
Ecology 66(3)(1985): 682-687.

SSS . "“Treefalls, regrowth, and community structure in tropical
forests." In: The Ecology of Natural Disturbance and Patch Dynamics,
ed. S.T.A. Pickett and P.S. White, pp. 53-69. New York: Academic
Press, 1985.

Caicedo R., Ricardo E. Distribucién y aspectos taxonédmicos de los
moluscos marinos del archipiélago de las Mulatas, San Blas (Kuna
Yala). Thesis, Universidad de Panama, 1984.

Caldwell, Roy L. "A test of individual recognition in the stomatopod
Gonodactylus festae." Animal Behaviour 33(1)(1985): 101-106.

Carlisle, Tamsie R. “Parental response to brood size in a cichlid fish.”
Animal Behaviour 33(1)(1985): 234-238.

Chen Fong, Eugenio. Contribuci6én a la evaluacién poblacional de Cichla
ocellaris Bloch y Schneider, 1801, en el Lago de las Cumbres, Reptiblica
de Panama. Thesis, Universidad Auténoma de Guadalajara, 1985.

Christenson, Terry E. “Behavior of colonial and solitary spiders of the
theridiid species Anelosimus eximius."” Animal Behaviour 32(3)(1984):
UP SVS

Christy, John H., and Salmon, Michael. “Ecology and evolution of mating
systems of fiddler crabs (genus Uca)." Biological Reviews,
59(4) (1984): 483-509.

Coates, A.G. and Jackson, Jeremy B.C. “The morphological distinction
distinction between zooxanthellate corals from shallow water ( 100 m)
reffs and non-zooxanthellate coral from deeper water ( 200 m).”
Proceedings of the Fifth International Coral Reef Congress, Tahiti,
2985) 279%

Connor, J.L. Seasonality and reproduction of algae on Galeta Reef. Ph.D.
dissertation. Berkeley, California: University of California.
Cooke, Richard G. "Ancient painted pottery from Central Panama.”
Archaeology July/August (1985): 33-39.

-----. "Archaeological research in Central and Eastern Panama: a review
of some problems." In: The Archaeology of Lower Central America, ed.

F.W. Lange and D. Stone, pp. 263-302. Alburquerque: University of New

Mexico Press, 1984.

== . “Birds and men in Prehistoric Central Panama.” In: Recent
Developments in Isthmian Archaeology, Proceedings of the 44th

International Congress of Americanists, ed. Frederick W. Lange, pp.
243-282, 1984.

----- . "La arqueologia prehistérica en Panama: una introduccién.”

Suplemento Educativo Cultural de La Prensa, Serie Nuestra Historia
124935) HLOe

-----. "La arqueologia prehistdérica de Panama: II Parte. Una Sintesis
cronolégica.” Suplemento Educativo Cultural de La Prensa, Serie
Nuestra Historia 13(1985): 1-19.

Cooke, Richard G. and Bray, Warwick. "The goldwork of Panama: an
iconographic and chronological perspective.” In: The Art of
Precolombian Gold: the Jan Mitchell Collection, ed. Julie Jones, pp.
35-45. London: Weidenfeld and Nicholson, 1985.

Cooke, Richard G. and Olson, Storrs L. “An archaeological record for the

white-faced whistling-duck (Dendrocygna viduata) in Central Panama."
The Condor 86(1984): 493-494.

Cooke, Richard G., Piperno, Dolores, Ranere, Anthony J., Clary, Karen,
Hansell, Patricia, Olson, Storrs, Valerio L., Wilson and Weiland,
Doris. "La influencia de las poblaciones humanas sobre las ambientes
terrestres de Panama entre el 10,000 A.C. y el 500 D.C." In: Agonia
de la Naturaleza. Ensayos sobre el costo ambiental del desarrollo
Panamefio, ed. Stanley Heckadon Moreno and Jaime Espinosa Gonzalez, pp.
3-25, Panama: Instituto de Investigaci6én Agropecuaria de Panama and
Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, 1985.

Cooke, Richard G. and Ranere, Anthony J. “The “Proyecto Santa Maria": a
multidisciplinary analysis of prehistoric adaptations to a tropical
watershed Panama.” In: Recent Developments in Isthmian Archaeology,

Proceedings of the 44th International Congress of Americanists, ed.
Frederick W. Lange, pp. 3-30, 1984.

Croat, Thomas B. "The large monocots of Panama.” In: The Botany and
Natural History of Panama: La Botanica e Historia Natural de Panama,

ed. William G. D'Arcy and Mireya D. Correa A., pp. 5-12. Saint Louis,
Missouri: Missouri Botanical Garden, 1985.

Cubit, John D. "“Herbivory and the seasonal abundance of algae on a high
intertidal rocky shore.” Ecology 65(6)(1984): 1904-1917.

181
sSos= . "Possible effects of recent changes in sea level on the biota of
a Caribbean reef flat and predicted effects of rising sea level. In:
Proceedings from the Fifth International Coral Reef Congress. Antenne

du Musuem National d'Histoire Naturelle et de 1'Ecole Pratique des

Hautes Etudes en Polynesie Francaise. Tahiti, French Polynesia.

Cubit, John D., Batista, Gloria, Roman, Argelis and Batista, Victoria.
"El valor de los manglares y arrecifes en la costa de Colén.” In:
Agonia de la Naturaleza. Ensayos sobre el costo ambiental del
desarrollo Panamefio, ed. Stanley Heckadon Moreno and Jaime Espinosa
Gonzalez, pp. 183-199, Panama: Instituto de Investigacién Agropecuaria
de Panama and Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, 1985.

De Alba, Georgina and Rubinoff, Ira. "El valor de nuestros bosques.”
In: Agonia de la Naturaleza. Ensayos sobre el costo ambiental del
desarrollo Panamefio, ed. Stanley Heckadon Moreno and Jaime Espinosa
Gonzalez, pp. 201-214, Panama: Instituto de Investigacién Agropecuaria
de Panama and Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, 1985.

D'Croz, Luis. "Los manglares: su importancia para la zona costera
tropical. In: Agonia de la Naturaleza. Ensayos sobre el costo
ambiental del desarrollo Panamefio, ed. Stanley Heckadon Moreno and
Jaime Espinosa Gonzalez, pp. 167-181, Panama: Instituto de
Investigacién Agropecuaria de Panama and Smithsonian Tropical Research
Institute, 1985.

De Steven, Diane and Putz, Francis E. “Impact of mammals on early

recruitment of a tropical canopy tree, Dipteryx panamensis, in Panama.
Oikos 43(1984): 207-216.

Decae, Arthur E. "A theory of the origin of spiders and the primitive
function of spider silk." Journal of Arachnology 12(1)(1984): 21-28.

DeLong, Dwight M., and Wolda, Henk. "New Panamanian Gyponine leafhoppers
(Homoptera: Cicadellidae) belonging to the genera Polana and Curtara.”
Uttar Pradesh Journal of Zoology 4(1)(1984): 22-30.

= . "New Panamanian Gyponine leafhoppers (Homoptera: Cicadellidae)
belonging to the genera Hecalapona, Gypona and Gyponana.” Uttar

Pradesh Journal of Zoology 4(2)(1984): 135-144.

DeLong, Dwight M., Wolda, Henk and Estribf, Miguel. "Some new species of
Panama Xestocephalus (Homoptera: Xestocephalinae).” Uttar Pradesh

Journal of Zoology 3(2)(1983): 73-80.

Denny, Mark W. “Mechanical properties of pedal mucus and their
consequences for gastropod structure and performance." American
Zoologist 24(1)(1984): 23-36.

Denny, Mark W., Daniel, Thomas L. and Koehl, M.A.R. "Mechanical limits
to size in wave-swept organisms." Ecological Monographs 55(1)(1985):
69-102.
Eberhard, William G.

Dressler, Robert L. “La delimitacidén
Epidendrum." Orquidea 9(2)(1984): 277-298.
----- "The orchid flora of Panama.” In:

of Panama:

La Botanica e Historia
D'Arcy and Mireya D. Correa A., pp.

Missouri Botanical Garden, 1985.

. "“Palmorchis en Panama:

de géneros en el complejo

(Includes English version.

The Botany and Natural History

22 G6

esperaba." Orquidea 9(2)(1984): 213-230.

Harvard University Press,

species of Modissimus and
Arachnol. 6(1985): 29-36.

species of Modissimus and
Arachnol. 6(1985): 29-36.

species of Modissimus and
Arachnol. 6(1985): 29-36.

species of Modissimus and
Arachnol. 6(1985): 29-36.

species of Modissimus and
Arachnol. 6(1985): 29-36.

species of Modissimus and
Arachnol. 6(1985): 29-36.

species of Modissimus and
Arachnol. 6(1985): 29-36.

species of Modissimus and
Arachnol. 6(1985): 29-36.

species of Modissimus and
Arachnol. 6(1985): 29-36.

species of Modissimus and
Arachnol. 6(1985): 29-36.

species of Modissimus and
Arachnol. 6(1985): 29-36.

species of Modissimus and
Arachnol. 6(1985): 29-36.

species of Modissimus and
Arachnol. 6(1985): 29-36.

species of Modissimus and
Arachnol. 6(1985): 29-36.

species of Modissimus and
Arachnol. 6(1985): 29-36.

ota 8 EEN Set Vf pee bel Fay ER er ee ee rs ae

1985.

Eberhard, William G. and Bricefio, Daniel.
Blechroscelis

Blechroscelis

Blechroscelis

Blechroscelis

Blechroscelis

Blechroscelis

Blechroscelis

Blechroscelis

Blechroscelis

Blechroscelis

Blechroscelis

Blechroscelis

Blechroscelis

Blechroscelis

Blechroscelis

Do Boy bee ae a ier A eee ee

Sexual Selection and Animal Genitalia.

“Behavior
(Araneae,

(Araneae,

(Araneae,

(Araneae,

(Araneae,

(Araneae,

(Araneae,

(Araneae,

(Araneae,

(Araneae,

(Araneae,

(Araneae,

(Araneae,

(Araneae,

(Araneae,

ay res

Natural de Panama, ed. William G.
Saint Louis, Missouri:

una nueva especie donde menos se le
(Includes English version).

Cambridge:

and ecology of four
Pholcidae)." Rev.

Pholcidae)." Rev.

Pholcidae)." Rev.

Pholcidae)." Rev.

Pholcidae)." Rev.

Pholcidae)." Rev.

Pholcidae)." Rev.

Pholcidae)." Rev.

Pholcidae)." Rev.

Pholcidae)." Rev.

Pholcidae)." Rev.

Pholcidae)." Rev.

Pholcidae)." Rev.

Pholcidae)." Rev.

Pholcidae)." Rev.

751 eS gg) oN Ot Dat
